Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



1JS50S<S.4? 



HARVARD COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 




THE BEQUEST OF 

EVERT JANSBN WENDELL 



CLA55 0F 18S2 

OP NEW YORK 



J] 




^ 



BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES 



OF THfi 



FOUNDER, AND PRINCIPAL ALUMNI 



OF THE 



LOG COLLEGE. 



TOGETHER WITH AN ACCOUNT OP THE REVITALS 
OF RELIGION^ UNDER THEIR MINISTRY. 

COUiECTED AlO) EDITED 



BY 



A. ALEXANDER, D.D. 



PRINCETON, N. J.: 

PRINTED BY J. T. ROBINSON. 

1845. 



Its \i.cCoG>.uf2- 



HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY 

FROM 

I THE BEQUEST OF 

EVERT JANSEN WENDELl 

\918 



Entered accordmg to the Act of CoDjg^ess, in the year 1845, by 

ARCHIBALD ALEXANDER, D.D. 

in thd Clerk's Office of the District Court of the State of New Jersey. 



COPT RiaHT SECURED. 






**> 



DEDICATION. 



To THE Reverend Presbttert of New Bruns- 
wick. 

Dear Brethren, 

There is a propriety in dedicating this 
book to yoU; as it owes its existence to your ap- 
pointment of the author to deUver a centenary dis- 
course on the 8th of August, 1838. A copy of this 
discoiurse you were ple-xsed to ask for publication, a 
compliance with which the preacher respectfully 
declined, because he found that all the facts and 
documents relative to the origin of the New Bruns- 
wick Presbytery could not be included in a single 
discourse : but he determined to make use of such 
materials as he possessed, or could obtain, to form a 
small volume, and lay it before your reverend body. 
This purpose, he has been enabled, imperfectly, to 
carry into effect ; and he now solicits your candid 
and favourable attention to a work, which is in- 
tended to give the people of the present age, an op- 



4 DEDICATION. 

portunity of seeing what the state of things in thi» 
region was, a hundred years ago. 

As most of those connected with the New Bruns- 
wick Presbytery, ia its earliest days^ were educated 
at Mr. Tennent's School, at Neshaminy, commonly 
called the Log College, to give some appearance 
of unity to the work, the history contained in it, is. 
connected with this humble, but useful Institution. 

And as the time when this Presbytery had its 
origin was a period favoured with remarkable revi- 
vals of religion ; and the men, who then composed 
this presbtery, eminent instruments, in carrying for- 
ward this good work ; it was judged to be expedient 
to give as distinct and full an account of the out- 
pouring of the Spirit of God, in those days, as could 
now be obtained. And as narratives were written 
by those most intimately conversant With this great 
revival, which were printed in books now rarely to 
be met with; it was thought best, to rescue these doc- 
uments from oblivion, and give them unaltered, in 
the very words of the original writers. 

The editor cannot but think that the biographical 
sketches here given from authentic authorities, will 
be acceptable to the present members of the Pres- 
bytery of New Brunswick; and he is persuaded, 



DEDICATICK. 5 

that the congregations in which the displays of 
divine grace were so wonderful, a century past, 

« 

will be benefited by a perusal of the narratives 
here given. Many pious people among us, are not 
aware that the ground on which they tread has, as it 
were, been hallowed by the footsteps of the Al- 
mighty. And who knows, but that prayers then 
offered in faith, remain yet to be answered ? 

The author would only observe further, that he* 
has no pecimiary interest in the sale of the work ; 
but all the profits of this edition — ^if any should ac- 
crue — are devoted to assist the funds of the Mount 
Lucas Orphan and Guardian Institute : which 
being the only institution in the state, which pro- 
poses to make provision for the helpless orphan, 
ought not to be suffered to languish or die, for want 
of support ; and such an institution should not be 
viewed with indifference by the New Brunswick 
Presbytery. If no other motive will induce the 
members to be active in giving circulation to this 
volume, he hopes this will not be without its influ- 
ence. "Pure religion and undefiled before God 
and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and 
widows in their afSiiction, and keep himself unspot- 
ted firom the world." « In as much as ye did it to 



6 DSDICATION. 

the least of these my brethren, ye did it unto me.'* 
Grod is the Father of the fatherless, and would have 
his ministers attentive to the poor and afSiicted. 
I am with sincere regard, 

Your brother in the gospel of Christ, 

A. A. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER L 

THE LOG COLLEGE. , 



CHAPTER II. 

MEMOm OP REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 18 

CHAPTER III. 

MEMOIR OP REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 33 

CHAPTER IV. 

MEMOIR OP REV. GILBERT TENNENT, Continued. 53 

CHAPTER V. 

MEMOIR OP REV. GILBERT TENNENT, Continued. 74 

CHAPTER VI. 
MEMOIR OP REV. GILBERT TENNENT, Concluded. 95 

CHAPTER VII. 

THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL 108 

CHAPTER VIII. 

MEMOIR OP REV. JOHN TENNENT. ... 198 

CHAPTER IX. 

REV. WM. TENNENT'S LETTER. 144 



8 CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER X. 

MEMOnt OP REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 161 

CHAPTER XI. 
REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING NARRATIVE. , 282 

CHAPTER XII. 

ANECDOTES OF REV. WM. TENNENT. . , 232 

CHAPTER XIII. 

MEMOIR OF REV. CHARLES TENNENT. . 248 

CHAPTER XIV. 

MEMOK OF REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. ... 254 

CHAPTER XV, 
MEMOIR OF REV. JOHN BLAIR 293 

CHAPTER XVI. 
MEMOIR OF REV. SAMUEL FINLEY, DJD. . . 308 

CHAPTER XVII. 

MBMOm OF REV. WM. ROBINSON. . . . 31 • 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

MEMOIR OF REV. JOHN ROWLAND. . . 341 

CHAPTER XIX. 
MEMOIR OF REV. CHARLES BEATTT. . . 367 



CHAPTER I. 

THE LOG COLLEGE. 

AModation givei interest to placet — ^Log College — ^Name— 43ite — 
Size— Utter Desolation — Country around — Dr. James P. Wilson- 
Relic — Suggestion of a monument — Importance of the Institution: 

Br association, objects which have nothing inter- 
esting in themselves, acquire an importance, by rea- 
son of the persons or things which they CiMistantly 
suggest to our minds. The rock of Plymouth has 
nothing in it which renders it intrinsically superior 
to thousands of other rocks in the coimtry ; and the 
site of Jamestown, has nothing but its interesting 
associations, to engage the attention of any one. 
But these spots, as being the first habitations of the 
European settlers, in this part of the new world, are 
invested with an interest which is felt by all ; and this 
interest, instead of growing weaker by the lapse of 
time, gathers new strength, every year. Indeed, it is 
only a recent thing, that the public attention has been 
particularly called to these objects. And though 
there may be an excess in the emotions cherished 
by some, and an affectation of lively interest in oth- 
ers ; yet, it cannot be doubted, that there is a foimda- 

B 



10 THE LOG COLLEGir. 

tiofa in human nature for the interest which is exci- 
ted by particular objects, places, and scenes. And 
the mare intimately these associations are related to 
reUgion, the deeper and more permanent the feeling 
becomes. By the abuse of this principle much su- 
perstition has been generated ; but the moderate and 
judicious use of it may, undoubtedly, be conducive 
to piety. Sacred, or holy places, figure largely in all 
false systems of religion ; and under the old dispen- 
sation, the people of God were encouraged to rev- 
erence those places where the worship of God was 
appointed to be celebrated. Under the gospel dis- 
pensation, it is true, we have no holy places or 
houses, to which the worship of G^d is confined ; 
but in every place, whether by sea or land 5 whether 
in the grove, on the mountain top, or in the open 
field, or the lonely vale, God may be worshipped. 
Yet, who does not entertain peculiar feelings of in- 
terest in relation to those places, where Christ was 
bom*— where he was brought up— where he preached 
and wrought miracles — ^but, especially, where he 
suffered and died, and where he was buried and 
arose again — and where he ascended to heaven, in 
the presence of his disciples ? This feeling is natu- 
Tal, and associated with love to Christ, but it readily 
becomes excessive, and degenerates into superstition. 
There never was a book in which there is so little 
to foster superstition, as the Bible. We never there 
read of the apostles, when they came up to Jeru- 



THE LOG COLLEGE. 11 

salem, resorting to any of these places, or express* 
ing the smallest degree of veneration for them. The 
natural tendency of the human mind seems to have 
been counteracted, for the very purpose of prevent- 
ing superstition ; just as the natural passions of the 
evangelists seem to have been restrained, in writing 
the gospels. 

Of late, considerable curiosity has ben manifested 
to ascertain the place where the first Presbyterian 
church, in this country, was formed ; and the his- 
tory of the first Presbyterian preacher who came to 
America, which had sunk into oblivion, has, of late, 
been brought prominently into view. Such re- 
tsearehes, when unaccompanied with boasting and 
vainglory, are laudable. And to gratify a similar 
curiosity, in regard to the first literary institution, 
above common schools, in the bounds of the Pres- 
byterian church, this small book has been com" 
piled. That institution, we believe, was, what has 
received the name of, THE LOG COLLEGE. The 
reason of the epithet prefixed to the word " college,'* 
might be obscure to an European ; but in this coun- 
try, where log-cabins are so numerous, will be intel- 
ligible to ?ill classes of readers. This edifice, which 
was made of logs, cut out of the woods, probably, 
from the very spot where the house was erected, 
was situated in Bucks county, Pennsylvania, about 
twenty-eight miles north of Philadelphia. The Log 
College has long since disappeared ; so that although 



12 THE LOG COLLEGE. 

the site on which it Stood is well known to many in the 
vicinity, there is not a vestige of it remaining on the 
ground ; and no appearance which would indicate 
that a house ever stood there. The fact is, that some 
owner of the property, never dreaming that there 
was any thing sacred in the logs of this humble ed- 
ifice, had them carried away and applied to some 
ignoble purpose on the farm, where they have rot- 
ted away like common timber, from which, if any 
of them remain, they can no longer be distinguished. 
But that some small relic of this venerable building 
might be preserved, the late Presbyterian minister 
of the place. Rev. Robert B. Belville, some years ago, 
rescued from the common ruin so much of one of 
these logs, as enabled him, by paring off the decayed 
parts, to reduce it to something of the form of a 
walking staff ; which as a token of respect, and for 
safe keeping, he presented to one of the oldest Pro- 
fessors* of the Theological Seminary, at Princeton, 
N. J., in whose possession it now remains, and who 
will, it is hoped, before he leaves the world, deposit it 
in the cabinet of curiosities, which has been formed, 
in connexion with the Theological Seminary. 

The site of the Log College is about a mile from 
that part of Neshaminy creek, where the Presbyte- 
rian church has long stood. The ground near and 
around it, lies handsomely to the eye ; and the more 

* Rev. Dr. Miller. 



THIS LOG COLLEGE. 13 

distant prospect is very beautiful ; for while there is 
a considerable extent of fertile, well cultivated land, 
nearly level, the view is bounded, to the north and 
west, by a range of hills, which have a very pleas- 
ing appearance. 

It may not be improper to observe, that the late 
Rev. James P. Wilson, D. D., long, the learned and 
admired pastor of the First Presbyterian church, 
in Philadelphia, was so pleased with the scenery 
and circumstances of this neighbourhood, that he 
purchased a small farm, which is, I believe, as 
near to tJie site of the Log College as any other 
dwelling, except the one on the farm on which it 
was built. To this farm he retired when no longer 
able, through bodily weakness, to fulfil the ardu- 
ous duties of the pastoral office. And here, in calm 
serenity, he spent the last years of his life. And, 
as we are informed, one of his sons still occupies 
the house, and is the pastor of one part of the now 
divided congregation of Neshaminy. 

If I were fond of projects, I would propose, that 

a monimient be erected to the Founder of the Log 

College on the very site where the building stood, 

if the land could be purchased ; but at any rate, a 

stone with an inscription might be permanently fixed 

on, or near the ground. The tradition respecting 

this humble institution of learning, exists, not only 

in the neighbourhood, but has been extended far to 

the south and west. 

Bl 



14 THE LOG COLLEGE. 

The first Presbyterian ministers, in this country, 
were nearly all men of liberal education. Some had 
received their education in the universities of Scot- 
land ; some in Ireland ; and others at one of the New 
England colleges. And though there existed such a 
destitution of ministers in this new country, they ne- 
ver thought of introducing any man into the ministry, 
who had not received a college or university educa- 
tion ; except in very extraordinary cases ; of which, 
I believe, we have but one instance in the early his- 
tory of the Presbyterian church. This was the case 
of a Welshman by the name of Evans, who, living 
in a place called the Welsh Tract, where the people 
had no public means of grace, began to speak to 
them of the things of God, on the Sabbath, and at 
other times*; and his labours were so acceptable and 
useful, that the presbytery, after a full trial of his 
abilities, licensed him to preach, and afterwards or- 
dained him to the whole work of the ministry. 
There is, indeed, another case that may possibly fall 
into this class. ** The people of Cape May were 
without a pastor ; Mr. Bradner, a candidate for the 
ministry, was willing to serve them, but had no au- 
thority to preach. In this emergency, three of the 
nearest ministers, Messrs. Davis, Hampton, and Hen- 
ry, on their own responsibility, examined and li- 
censed him."* But as he was before a candidate, 

^ See Records of the Synod of Philadelphia. 



THS LOG COLLEGE. 15 

and a Scotchman^ there is a strong probability that 
he was a liberally educated man. 

There seems to be no written record of the exis- 
tence of such an edifice as that which we are describ- 
ing by any contemporary writer, exceptin the journal 
of Rev. Greorge Whitefield, the celebrated evan- 
gelist, who traversed -this country, several times ; 
preaching, every where, with a popularity and 
success, which have never been equalled by any 
other. It will be proper, therefore, to extract the 
paragraph which relates to this subject; as he 
gives the dimensions of the building, and express- 
ly says that it had obtained the name of " the col- 
lege.'^ " The place,^^ says he, " wherein the young 
meff study now, is in contempt called, the college. 
It is a log house, about twenty foot long, and near 
as many broad ; and to me it seemed to resemble 
the school of the old prophets ; for their habitations 
weie mean ; and that they sought not great things 
for themselves is plain, from those passages of scrip* 
ture, wherein we are told, that each of them took 
them a beam to build them a house : and that at the 
feast of the sons of the prophets, one of them put on 
the pot, whilst the others went to fetch some herbs 
out of the field. All that we can say of most of our 
universities is, they are glorious without. From 
this despised place, seven or eight worthy ministers 
of Jesus have lately been sent forth ; more are al- 
most ready to be sent, and the foundation is now 

B2 



16 THE LOG COLLEGE. 

laying for the instruction of many others." The 
Journal from which the preceding extract is taken, 
was printed in Philadelphia, by Benjamin Franklin, 
the same year in which Mr. Whitefield visited the 
Log College. From this testimony it appears, that 
the name college y was given to the building out of 
contempt, by its enemies : but in this, as in many 
other things, that which is lightly esteemed among 
men, is precious in the sight of the Lord. Though 
as poor a house as perhaps was ever erected for the 
purpose of giving a liberal education, it was in a 
noble sense, a college ; a foimtain, from which, as 
we shall see hereafter, proceeded streams of bless- 
ings to the church. We shall again have occasion 
to advert to Mr. Whitefield's Journal, when we 
come to speak of the founder of this college ; but we 
shall now proceed to finish what we have to say 
respecting the site and the building. 

When the General Assembly of the Presbyterian 
Church, in the United States, determined, in the 
year 1811, to establish a Theological Seminary, for 
the more thorough training of her candidates for the 
sacred office, there was much diversity of opinion 
respecting the most eUgible site for the institution. 
Between Princeton, N. J., and Chambersburg, Pa., the 
chief competition existed ; but there were a few per- 
sons, who were strongly in favour of placing it on the 
very site of the Log College. The Rev. Nathaniel 
Irwin, then pastor of the church at Neshaminy, and 



THE LOG COLLEGE. 17 

a man of profound understanding, was earnestly de- 
sirous that it should be planted on the ground, where 
a building had once stood, to which the Presbyte- 
rian church owes so much. And to manifest his 
sincerity and zeal, Mr. Irwin left, in his will, a con- 
siderable bequest* to the seminary, on condition that 
it should be ultimately located on this site. 

* $1000. 



B9 



CHAPTER II. 

MEMOIR OF REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 

Rey. Wm. Tennent,sen. — A miiiister of the Irish Episcopal ehmch'-* 
EmigratM with his family to America — Applies for admission into 
the synod and is received — Settles permanently at Neshaminy-^ 
Erects the Log College — Visits Whiteiield, and is visited hy him-« 
His character and death. 

We come now to give some account of the found- 
er of the Log College. The Rev. William Ten- 
nent, sen., was a native of Ireland, where he was 
brought up and received a liberal education ; but at 
what college, or university, is not known. It is pro- 
bable, however, that he obtained his learning at 
Trinity College, Dublin, as he belbnged originally to 
the Episcopal Church of Ireland, in which he took 
orders. After entering the holy ministry, he acted 
as chaplain to an Irish nobleman. But there is no 
evidence that he was ever settled over a parish in 
that country ; the reason assigned, by the author of 
the Memoir of Wm. Tennent, jr., was that he could 
not conscientiously conform to the terms imposed on 
the clergy of that kingdom. He remained in Ireland 
\mtil he was past middle age. The truth is^ that very 
little ia known of Mr. Tennent, until he arrived in 



\- 



THE BEY. WM. TENNBNT, SEN. 19 

America. From Dr. Elias Boudinot, who was very 
intimate with the whole family, we learn, that Mr. 
Tennent,in Ireland, became acquainted with the Rev. 
Mr. Kennedy, a distinguished Presbyterian preacher, 
who having suffered persecution in his own country, 
exercised his ministry in Holland, with great success. 
The only other notice of this zealous and evangelical 
preacher which has been found is, in the " Vindica- 
tion^^ of the Rev. Samuel Blair, in which, speaking 
of the objections made to the revival, he says, " Se- 
veral have very sufficiently answered the objections 
against the work itself, as Mr. Edwards in New 
England, Mr. Dickinson in New Jersey, Mr. Finley 
in Pennsylvania, Mr. Robe and Mr. Webster in 
Scotland, and Mr. Kennedy in Holland.^' He then j^- 
remarks, that Mr. Kennedy had published Mr. Ed- 
wards' " Narrative," with attestations from Scotland, 
translated by him into the Dutch language. It would 
be very desirable to obtain some further information 
of this Mr. Kennedy, who is spoken of as a man of 
like spirit with Edwards, and Dickinson, and Robe, 
and Webster, and Finley. But, probably, there re- 
mains no earthly record of his labours, his sufferings, 
and successes.^ 

Our attention has been directed to this man, not 
merely because Mr. Tennent became acquainted 

"^^ In Wodrow's Church History, we hare frequent mention 
of a Mr. Kennedy, a celebrated eTaagelical minister in Ire- 
land ; and also in Reid's History of the Preshyterian Church, 
m Ireland. 



26 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 

with him, but especially, because he married his 
daughter, who was the mother of his four sons, and 
emigrated with him to America. And it is exceed- 
ingly probable, that from this man Mr. Tennent 
imbibed his love of the Presbyterian system. Mr, 
TeriRent's oldest son, was no doubt called after 
his grandfather Kennedy, whose name was, Gilbert. 
In the Memoir of William Tennent, jr. it is said, 
that his father arrived in America, in the year 1718; 
but in the sketch of the life of Gilbert Tennent, in 
the Assembly's Magazine, for May, 1805, "that he 
came over in 1716," which last, is believed to be the 
more accurate statement. Upon his arrival, he set- 
tled first in the state of New York, where he resided 
for some time at East Chester ; and then at Bedford. 
Not long after his immigration to America, Mr. Ten- 
nent applied to the synod of Philadelphia, to be re- 
ceived, as a minister, into their connexion. The syn- 
od did not act hastily in this affair, but after full 
deliberation, agreed to receive Mr. Tennent as a 
member of their body. Before doing this, however, 
they required him to lay before them, in writing, the 
reasons which had induced him to separate himself 
from the Episcopal Church. And these reasons 
were ordered to be entered on record. The minute 
of the synod, as found in the printed book of records 
of the Presbyterian church, is as follows : " Mr. Wil- 
liam Tennent's affair being transmitted by the com- 
mittee [of overtures] to the Synod, was by them 



THE S£V. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 21 

fully considered, being well satisfied with his creden- 
tials, and the testimony of some brethren here pre- 
sent ; as also, they were satisfied with the niaterial 
reasons which he offered concerning his dissenting 
from the established church of Ireland 5 being put to 
a vote of the synod, it was carried in the affirmative 
to admit him as a member of the synod. Ordered, 
that his reasons be inserted on the synod book ad 
futuram rei memoriam. The synod also ordered, 
that the moderator should give him a serious exhor- 
tation to continue steadfast in his now holy profes- 
sion ; — which was done.'' 

This transaction took place on the 17th day of 
September, 1718 ; it is probable, however, that Mr. 
Tennent's application was first made to the synod, 
the previous year ; although nothing appears on the 
records relative to this matter. But in the short ac- 
count of the Rev. William Tennent, sen., in the As- 
sembly's Magazine, it is stated, that after some de- 
lay" he was received. And the minute recited 
above, seems to speak of it as a thing before imder 
consideration ; for it would be very abrupt and un- 
usual, to speak of a first application in the language 
here used — ^^Mv. Tennent's affair," &c., without 
any notice of any application made by him. It is 
probable that the application to synod was made in 
the year 1717, which was the next year after his 
arrival. 

Whether Mr. i>l'tnnent had the pastoral care of a 



22 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 

church m the state of New York, does not appear; 
but about the year 1721, he received an invitation 
to settle at Bensalem, in Bucks county, Pennsylvania, 
to which place he removed his family, and continued 
to supply that small Presbyterian congregation, until 
the year 1726, when he received a call to the Presby- 
terian church at Neshaminy, in the same county. In 
this place, he continued the remainder of his life. 
And here, within a few steps of his own dwelling, 
he erected the building which has already been de- 
scribed ; which though humble and even despicable 
in its external appearance, was an institution of un- 
speakable importance to the Presbyterian church, in 
this country. 

It may be proper to remark, in this place, that 
from all the accounts which we have, it appears, 
that at this time, the state of vital piety was very 

low in the Presbyterian church in America. And 
the same was true of the churches in New England. 
And this was remarkably the fact in regard to 
Great Britain. The ministers composing the Pres- 
byterian church, in this country, were sound in the 
faith, and strongly attached to the Westminster Con- 
fession of Faith and Catechisms, as were also their 
people ; and there were no diversities or contentions 
among them respecting the doctrines of the gospel ; 
but as to the vital power of godliness, there is reason 
to beUeve, that it was little known or spoken of. 
Revivals of religion were nowhe \, heard of, and 



THE REV. WM, TENNENT, SEN. 23 

an orthodox creed, and a decent external conduct 
were the only points on which inquiry was made, 
when persons were admitted to the communion of 
the church. Indeed, it was very much a matter of 
course for all who had been baptised in infancy, to 
be received into full communion at the proper age, 
without exhibiting or possessing any satisfactory 
evidence of a change of heart, by the supernatural 
operations of the Holy Spirit. And the habit of the 
preachers was, to address their people as though 
they were all pious, and only needing instruction ' 
and confirmation. It was not a common thing to 
denounce the terrors of a violated law, and to insist 
on the absolute necessity of regeneration. Under 
such a state of things, it is easy to conceive, that in 
a short time vital piety may have almost deserted 
the church, and that formality and ^^dead ortho- 
doxy" be all that was leftof religion. And nothing 
is more certain, than that when people have sunk 
into this deplorable state, they will be disposed to 
manifest strong opposition to faithful, pointed preach- 
ing ; and will be apt to view every appearance of 
revival with an unfavourable eye. Accordingly, 
when God raised up preachers, animated with a 
burning zeal, who laboured faithfully to convince 
their hearers of their ruined condition, and of the 
necessity of a thorough conversion from sin, the op- 
position to them, both in Great Britain and this 
coimtry, was violent. The gospel, among people 



24 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 

in such a condition, is sure to produce strife and di- 
vision, between those who fall under its influence^ 
and those whose carnal minds urge them to oppose 
it. It was in such a state of the church that Mr. 
Tennent came to this country. What his own course 
of religious experience had been, we have no infor- 
mation; but he seems to have imbibed a warm, 
evangelical spirit, and to have been, in this country, 
distinguished for his zeal and efforts in promoting 
vital piety. When Mr. Whitefield first visited Phil- 
adelphia, Mr. Tennent lost no time in calling upon 
him. Though he lived nearly thirty miles from 
Philadelphia, yet no sooner did he hear of the arri- 
val of this evangelical and successful preacher, than 
taking with him some of his pious friends, he re- 
paired to the city, and from Mr. Whitefield's Jour- 
nal, we learn, that the visit was very acceptable to 
him ; for he says, " At my return home, [from visit- 
ing a family] was much comforted by the coming 
of one Mr. Tennent, an old gray-headed disciple and 
soldier of Jesus Christ. He keeps an academy about 
twenty miles from Philadelphia, and has been blessed 
with four gracious sons, three of which have been, 
and still continue to be, eminently useful in the 
church of Christ. He brought three pious souls 
along with him, and rejoiced me by letting me know 
how they had been spoken evil of for their Master's 
sake. He is a great friend of Mr. Erskine, of Scot- 
land ; and as far as I can learn, both he and bis sons, 



THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 55 

are secretly despised by the generality of the synod, 
as Mr. Erskine and his friends are hated by the 
judicatories of Edinburgh, and as the Methodist 
preachers (as they are called) are, by their brethren 
in England.^' This testimony of Mr. Whitefield 
goes to show, that the course pursued by old Mr. 
Tennent and his sons, was different from that of the 
other ministers of the synod, to whom he stood in 
the same relation, as Whitefield, Wesley, and their 
coadjutors, to the great body of the clergy in Eng- 
land. Mr. Whitefield, on his return from New 
York, went to Neshaminy, and spent some days 
with Mr. Tennent. 

Here again we are glad to have the opportunity 
of using the very words of Mr. Whitefield. 

« Nov. 22. [1739.] Set out for Neshaminy, (twenty 
miles distant from Trent Town,) where old Mr. 
Tennent lives, and keeps an academy, and where I 
was to preach, to day, according to appointment. 
About 12 [o'clock] we came thither, and found 
about three thousand people gathered together, in 
the meeting-house yard. Mr. William Tennent, [jr.] 
an eminent servant of Jesus Christ, because we 
staid beyond the time appointed, was preaching to 
them. When I came up, he soon stopt; sung a 
psalm, and then I began to speak, as the Lord gave 
me utterance. At first, the people seemed unaffect- 
ed, but in the midst of my discourse, the power of 
the Lord Jesus came upon me, and I felt such a 



26 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 

Struggling within myself for the people, as I scarce 
ever felt before. The hearers began to be melted 
down immediately, and to cry much ; and we had 
good reason to hope the Lord intended good for 
many. After I had finished, Mr. Gilbert Tennent 
gave a word of exhortation, to confirm what had 
been delivered. At the end of his discourse, we 
sung a psalm, and dismissed the people with a bless- 
ing, O that the people may say amen to it ! After 
our exercises were over we went to old Mr. Ten- 
nent's, who entertained us like one of the ancient 
patriarchs. His wife, to me seemed like Elizabeth, 
and he like Zachary ; both, as far as I can learn, 
walk in all the commandments and ordinances of 
the Lord, blameless. Though Grod was pleased to 
hmnble my soul, so that I was obliged to retire for 
a while ; yet we had sweet communion with each 
other, and spent the evening in concerting what 
measures had best be taken, for promoting our dear 
Lord's kingdom. It happened very providentially, 
that Mr. Tennent and his brethren are appointed to 
be a presbytery, by the synod, so that they intend 
bringing up gracious youths, and sending them out 
from time to time, into the Lord's vineyard. The 
place, wherein the young men study now is, in con- 
tempt, called, THE COLLEGE, &c. Friday, Nov. 23, 
parted with dear Mr. Tennent, and his other worthy 
fellow-labourers; but promised to remember each 
other publicly in our prayers." 



THK REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 27 

From the preceding extract we learn, that Mr. 
Tennent was a man of congenial spirit with Mr. 
Whitefield, and that he was held in high esteem by 
this distinguished preacher and devoted servant of 
God. Of scarcely any other minister, of any denomi- 
nation, does he make so honourable a mention, and 
to no other in this region, did he pay so respectful an 
attention. It is certain, from the foregoing account, 
that Mr. Tennent was distinguished among his 
brethren, as the open and zealous friend of vital 
piety, and of revivals of religion. The character of 
his public preaching is nowhere given, and we are 
left to infer it from his character; or rather from the 
character of his pupils, of whom an account will be 
given, hereafter. As a classical scholar, there can 
be no doubt of his eminence. The late Hon. Elias 
Boudinot, LL. D., who knew him well, says, " that 
he was well skilled in the Latin language, that he 
could speak and converse in it with as much facility, 
as in his vernacular tongue, and also, that he was a 
proficient in the other ancient languages. In con- 
firmation of what he says about his ^Jdll in the Latin 
language, he relates, that at the next meeting of the 
Synod of Philadelphia after his reception, he deliv- 
ered before that body, an elegant Latin oration 
The writer of a sketch of the life of the Rev. Gilbert 
Tennent, inserted in the May number of the Assem- 
bly's Magazine, for the year 1805, says, respecting 
the Rev. William Tennent, sen.: " He was eminent 



28 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 

as a classical scholar. His attainments in science 
are not so well known ; but there is reason to be- 
lieve they were not so great as his skill in language. 
His general character appears to have been that of 
a man of great integrity, simplicity, industry, and 
piety." 

Mt. Tennent was, by his position at Neshaminy, 
a member of the presbytery of Philadelphia ; but 
when the division oiF the synod took place, he at- 
tached himself to the New Brunswick presbytery, 
to which his sons Gilbert and William belonged. 

It appears from the pubhshed records of the synod 
of Philadelphia, that in the year 1737, a complaint 
was made to the synod, by a part of the congrega- 
tion of Neshaminy, against the Rev. WiDiam Ten- 
nent, their pastor ; and also an answer to the same, 
from another part of the said congregation. Both 
of these papers were read, article by article, and 
both parties heard at length what they had to say. 
Mr. Thomson was directed to prepare a minute 
which i^ould express the mind of the synod, in re- 
lation to this matter ; which being done, was adop- 
ted, viz. " That the reasons advanced by the disaf- 
fected party of that congregation, in justification of 
their non-compliance with the synod's judgment in 
relation to them, last year, and their desire to be 
freed from Mr. Tennent as their pastor, are utterly 
insufficient, being founded (as appears to us), partly 
upon ignorance and mistake, and partly (as we fear) 



THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 29 

upon prejudice. It is therefore ordered, that the 
moderator recommend it to said people to lay aside 
such groundless dissatisfactions and return to their 
duty, which they have too long strayed from ; other- 
wise the synod will be bound to treat them as disor- 
derly.'* This minute was unanimously approved. 
The matter referred to, as having been before the 

synod the preceding year, was, that though Mr. 
Tennent had so long acted as the pastor of the 
church at Neriiaminy, he had never been formally 
installed. In regard to which, the synod had come 
to the following judgment : " That it appears evi- 
dent to the synod, that Mr. Tennent having in all 
respects acted and been esteemed, and looked upon, 
not only by the synod, but by the congregation of 
Neshaminy, and particularly by the appellants them- 
selves, as the minister and pastor of the people of 
Neshaminy, that he is still to be esteemed as the 
pastor of that people, notwithstanding the want of a 
formal instalment among them,'' 

For some time before his death his health was so 
feeble, that he was unable to perform the duties of 
the pastoral office, and his pulpit was supplied by 
the presbytery. In the year 1742, we find the fol- 
lowing minute on the records of the presbytery. 
« Mr. William Tennent, sen., gave into presbytery 
a paper, setting forth his inability, by reason of ad- 
vanced age, to discharge the work of the ministry 
unto the congregation of Neshaminy, over which, for 



30 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 

divers years past, he has been overseer — desiring the 
presbytery to grant to said congregation of Nesham- 
iny, such supplies as they can." We find his name 
enrolled among the members of the New Brunswick 
presbytery, in the following year, (1743) and in the 
same year, he is mentioned as present when the 
presbytery met to ordain Mr. Beatty as his succes- 
sor. It is evident from this, that he had resigned his 
charge, for Mr. Beatty is not said to have been or- 
dained as his colleague. This seems to have been 
the last meeting of presbytery which he ever at- 
tended. His connexion with the congregation was, 
no doubt, dissolved at the time when he presented 
the paper stating his inability to fulfil the duties of 
a pastor ; for, in the same year, a call was presented 
to Mr. William Robinson, which he declined ; and 
after this, in 1743. Mr. Beatty, having accepted the 
call of the people, was ordained their pastor, in the 
month of October. 

It is stated, in the sketch of the life of Gilbert Ten- 
nent in the Assembly's Magazine, that the Rev. 
William Tennent, sen. died in the year 1743; but 
this is not correct ; for we find a record in the min- 
utes of the New Brunswick presbytery, for the year 
1 746, of the following import : « It is reported to 
the presbytery that Mr. William Tennent, sen. de- 
ceased, since our last."* 

* The exact date of his death was May 6, 1746, aged 73. 
This was communicated to the author, by the Rev. I^« MiU 
ler, who transcribed from his tomb-stone. 



THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 31 

He died at his own house, in Neshaminy, and 
came to tlie grave in a good old age, like a shock of 
com fully ripe. He was buried in the Presbyterian 
burjMjg ground, where liis tomb may be yet seen. 

Mr. Tennent, as far as we know, never pub- 
lished any thing. We have, therefore, no means 
of ascertaining his abilities as a writer ; but the 
benefit he conferred on the church by his school 
can never be forgotten. The Presbyterian church 
is probably not more indebted for her prosperity, 
and for the evangelical spirit which has generally 
pervaded her body, to any individual, than to the 
elder Tennent. Some men accomplish much more 
by those whom they educate, than by their own 
personal labours. This should be an encourage- 1 
ment to such ministers as are obliged to resort to 
teaching for tlieir own support. If they are so fa- 
voured as to be the means of bringing forward a 
few pious youth, and preparing them for the minis- 
try, they may do more good than if their whole 
lives had been spent in doing nothing else but preach- 
ing the Gospel. And it is good policy for Presbyte- 
rian ministers to establish schools, in their charges, 
wherever they are needed. And this ihey may do, 
without subjecting themselves to the drudgery of 
teaching, all the time. Pious young men might be 
foimd, to whom such a situation would be a favour. 
And such institutions are often necessary to enable a 

minister to educate his own sons. When the means 

Cl 



32 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN. 

of acquiring a liberal education are brought to the 
doors of the people, many will avail themselves of 
the privilege, who would never have thought of 
going abroad for the same purpose. The tiiifli of 
this remark has been verified in almost every place 
where a good school has been established. 

It is to be regretted that our materials for a me- 
moir of the Founder of the Log College are so 
scanty ; but his usefulness must be estimated by the 
character of his pupils, of some of whom we shall 
have it in our power to give a more particular ac- 
count; and to this part of oxu: work we shall now 
address ourselves. 



CHAPTER III. 

MEMOIR OF REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

Gilbert Tennent — Birth — Education — Conversion — Licensure — 
Charactet by Dr. Finley— By Mr. Prince— By Mr. "Whitefield— 
Visit to Boston — Success of his ministry in New Bngluidf and in 
other places. 

Having, in the preceding chapter, given some ac- 
count of the founder of this literary institution, let 
us now attend to the character of some of its prin- 
cipal pupils. The surest criterion, by which to judge 
of the character of any school, is to observe the at- 
tainments and habits of those educated in it. And 
judging by this rule, a very high place must be as- 
signed to the Log College, notwithstanding its di- 
minutive and mean external appearance. And what 
was before said should be remembered, that this was 
the first seminary in which young men were trained 
for the gospel ministry, within the limits of the Pres- 
byterian church. Before this school was opened, if a 
young man wished to become a minister in the Pres- 
byterian church, he must either repair to one of the 
New England colleges, or go to Europe. It is morally 
certain, therefore, that few, if any of those who were 

C2 



34 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

brought forward to the work, could ever have reached 
the ministry had it not been for this school. Accor- 
dingly, we find, that for a considerable time, nearly 
all the ministers composing the synod, were either 
from Great Britain, Ireland, or New England, ex- 
cept those who proceeded from this school. And of 
what character and abilities these were, we shall 
soon see. The first on the list of students, in this 
school, was, no doubt, Mr. Tennent's oldest son, 
Gilbert. For though he had finished his education 
before the Log College was built, yet he received no 
other education than what he gained under the tui- 
tion of his father; and may therefore without im- 
propriety be classed among the pupils of the insti- 
tution. 

Gilbert Tennent, the oldest son of the Rev. William 
Tennent, sen., was born in the county of Armagh, 
Ireland, April 5, in the year 1703, and was, therefore, 
thirteen or fourteen years of age, when his father 
immigrated to this country. In setting up this 
school, no doubt, the father had a regard to the ed- 
ucation of his four sons. Men who have themselves 
profited by education, and have become learned, 
caimot but feel a lively interest in the education of 
their children ; and this motive has had its influence 
in the institution of numerous classical schQols, in 
this country, besides the Log College. Judging 
by the result, however, all have reason to conclude, 
that in the mind of this good man, the education of 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 35 

his sons was viewed as subordinate to the prosperity 
of the church ; for every one of them became min- 
isters of the gospel, and some of them ranked 
among the most distinguished, who have ever la- 
boured in the Presbyterian church. 

Gilbert Tennent, as haiS been remarked, received 
his education under the paternal roof, before this 
school was opened ; for at this time he was twenty- 
one or twenty-two years of age ; and was soon able 
to be an assistant to his father in teaching the other 
students. And when we consider the eminence to. 
which he rose as a preacher, and as a writer, we \ 
need no other proof of the talents and skill of his 
reverend tutor. 

Gilbert Tennent's first religious impressions of 

any permanency, were experienced when he was 

about fourteen years of age. His serious concern 

about his salvation continued for several years be- , 

fore his mind was established in comfort and peace. 

During this period, he was often in great agony of 

spirit ; until at last, it pleased God to give him "the 

light of the knowledge of his glory in the face of 

Jesus Christ.^' While he remained in the anxious 

state of mind, which has been referred to, beside his 

other studies, he pursued a course of theological 

reading; but living under the habitual impression 

that his spiritual condition was not good, he durst not 

think of entering the holy ministry. He, therefore, 

coQunenced the study of medicine, which he prose- 

C3 



36 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

cuted for the space of a year. But about this time, 
it pleased God to reveal himself to him with so much 
clearness and comfort, that all his doubts and sor- 
rows, and fears were dispelled; and the Sun of 
Righteousness arose upon him with healing under 
his wings. And no sooner was he satisfied of his 
saving interest in Christ, than he felt himself called 
to seek the ministry, which he had before been de- 
terred from thinking of. And here it may be proper 
to remark, that, often, when God intends a man for 
eminent usefulness in the ministry, he leads him 
through deep waters, and causes him to drink freely 
of the cup of spiritual sorrow, that he may be pre- 
pared, by a long course of afflictive experiences, to 
sympathize with tempted and desponding believers, 
and may learn how to administer to them that con- 
solation by which his own heart was at last com- 
forted. Of this, religious biography furnishes many 
mstructive examples. After due preparation and 
study, Mr. Gilbert Tennent presented himself as a 
candidate, to the presbytery of Philadelphia, of 
which his father was a member. Having passed 
the usual trials before the presbytery, to their great 
approbation, he received a license to preach, in May, 
1726. This was the very year in which the Log 
College was opened ; and as we learn from the doc- 
uments to which we have had access, that he was 
an usher, or assistant to his father in the school, it 
iseems altogether probable that he continued with his 



THE REV. GII.BERT TENNENT. 37 

father in the school for one year, at least ; for by the 
Presbyterial Records it appears, that he was not or- 
dained and settled as a pastor, until the autumn of 
the year 1727. This then, is the only period in which 
he could have been a tutor in the Log College ; 
for it was not in existence until 1726, and after he 
was ordained, he was the regular pastor of an impor- 
tant church in another state ; for he was called to take 
charge of the Presbyterian congregation in the city 
of New Brunswick, New Jersey. Before Gilbert 
Tennent settled at New Brunswick, he preached 
several Sabbaths, in Newcastle, on the Delaware, 
and received a call from the Presbyterian congrega- 
tion in that place ; which, however, he did not accept. 
From his first entrance on the public work of the 
ministry, the preaching of Gilbert Tennent was very 
popular and attractive, with all classes of hearers. 
He possessed uncommon advantages as a preacher. 
In person, he was taller than the common stature, 
and well proportioned in every respect. His aspect 
was grave and venerable, and his address prepossess- 
ing. His voice was clear and comimanding, and his 
manner in the pulpit was exceedingly earnest, and 
impressive. His reasoning powers, also, were strong, 
and his language often nervous, and, indeed, sublime. 
No one could hear him without being convinced that 
he was deeply in earnest. His style was copious, 
and sometimes elegant. Indeed, in the vigour of his 
age, few preachers could equal him, 



38 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

In the sermon preached at the funeral of Mr Ten- 
nent by Dr. Finley, he describes his character, as fol- 
lows: " In his manners, at first view, he seemed dis- 
tant and reserved ; yet, upon nearer acquaintance, he 
was ever found affable, condescending, and commu- 
nicative. And what greatly endeared his conversa- 
tion was, an openness and undisguised honesty ; at 
the greatest remove from artifice and dissimulation, 
which were the abhorrence of his soul, while he lived. 
Besides, he was tender, loving, and compassionate ; 
kind and agreeable in every relation ; an assured 
friend to such as he esteemed worthy of his regards ; 
and a common patron to all whom he apprehended 
were injured or distressed. He was of a truly public 
spirit, and seemed to feel the various cases of man- 
l^ind in general : but sensibly partook of all the good 
or ill that befell his country. He needed no other 
motive to exert himself, than only to be persuaded 
that the matter in question was an important public 
good ; and in such cases, he was much regarded, not 
only because of his known integrity, but his generous 
and catholic disposition. For although he was a 
great lover of truth, and very zealous for its propa- 
gation ; yet he was so far above a narrow, party 
spirit, that he loved and honoured all who seemed to 
have ^ the root of the matter in them,' and made it 
their business to promote the essentials of religion, 
though they were, in various points, opposed to his 
own sentiments. He was, moreover, an example 



THS BSV. aiLBXRT TSNNENT. 39 

of great fortitude, and unshaken resolution. What- 
ever appeared to him subservient to the advance- 
ment of the Redeemer's kingdom, the salvation of 
souls, or the common good of mankind, he pursued 
with spirit; and what he did, he did with his might. | 
If the end seemed to be attainable, great obstructions 
and difficulties in the way, were so far from dispirit- 
ing, that they animated him in his efforts : nor would 
he give up the point, while one glimpse of hope re- 
mained. Hence, he accomplished many important 
matters, which one less determined and enterprizing, 
would presently have relinquished as desperate. He 
would go through honour and dishonour, through *evil 
report and good report'; and though he had sensibil- 
ity with respect to his character, as well as other 
men ; yet, if preserving it, seemed at any time to 
require the omission of duty, or sinful compliances, 
he readily determined to expose himself to all risks ; 
and if adhering to the will of God should be ac- 
counted < vile,' he resolved that he would be ^ yet 
more vile.' 

" A great part of his life was a scene of unremitted 
labour. He studied hard, travelled much, and 
preached often, while his health and other circum- 
ftances permitted. He was < instant in season and 
out of season' : always about his Master's business. 
They who have journeyed or been often with him in 
company, could not but observe his constant endea- 
vours to do good by his conversation ; to introduce 



40 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

some convincing or edifying topics ; and his watch- 
ing for proper opportunities for speaking for God. 
And very faithful was he in warning sinners of their 
danger, and persuading them to seek salvation in 
earnest. Thus, he showed how much religion was 
his element, and promoting it the delightful business 
of his life. How benevolent towards mankind he 
was, and how precious immortal souls were in his 
esteem, were evident from this, that every advantage 
accruing to them he reckoned clear gain to himself ; 
nor were they ' who divide the spoil,' ever more 
joyful than I have known him to be, on occasion of 
the hopeful conversion of sinners, wliether by his 
own, or the ministry of others. And, often, has his. 
<soul wept in secret places, for the pride' and obsti- 
nacy of those who refused to be reclaimed. 

*' His great reading, with his various and long ex- 
perience of the workings of both grace and corrup- 
tion in the heart, made him a wise and skilful cas- 
uist, who could resolve perplexing exercises of mind 
with clearness, [and enabled] him to comfort with 
those consolations, wherewith he in like cases had 
been comforted of God. 

« He was a faithful attendant on the judicatories 
of the church, as was natural for one so anxiously 
concerned for the interest of religion, as he was. 
And having observed the effects of a lax aad negli- 
gent government in some churches, he became a 
more strenuous asserter of due and strict discipline. 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 41 

But above all other things, the purity of the minis- 1 
try was his care 5 and, therefore, at the hazard of 
the displeasure of many, and in the face of reproach,; 
he zealously urged every scriptural method by which' 
carnal and earthly-minded men might be kept frona 
entering it, and men of piety and zeal, as well as 
learning, introduced. 

" As Mr. Tennent's preaching was very alarming 
and awakening to careless sinners; so it was much 
blessed to this end, wherever he preached. And it 
was not only rendered effectual in producing con- 
viction of sin, and exciting desires to flee from the 
wrath to come, but also to comfort mourners in Zi- 
on, and to encourage the timid and self-diffident. 
"The atoning blood of the Redeemer, that only 
sovereign balsam, was applied to their recent or fes- 
tering wounds. For while, at one time, when he 
thundered the terrors of the law, the heavens seemed 
to gather blackness, and a tempest of wrath appeared 
ready to be hurled on the heads of the guilty ; at 
other times, when he exhibited the riches of the 
grace and provisions of the gospel, the heavens 
seemed to smile, the clouds were dispelled, and the 
sky became serene. The almighty God was shown 
to be their refuge, and underneath were the ever- 
lasting arms. Then his exhilirating words dropped 
upon them as the dew.'* 

The preceding full length portrait is, with some 
slight alterations in the language, from the pen of 



42 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

one well qualified to judge in such matters, and who 
by a long and intimate acquaintance, had the best 
opportunities of knowing the true character of the 
man which he undertakes to describe. The Rev. Dr. 
Finley, president of New Jersey College, the author 
of the foregoing sketch, was himself one of the alum- 
ni of the Log College. It is possible, however, that 
the cordial friendship which he had long cherished 
for Gilbert Tennent, and the early admiration which 
he felt for his talents and virtues, might insensibly 
lead him to give rather too high a colouring to* the 
portraiture which he has delineated. One thing is 
apparent to all who attentively consider what Dr. 
Finley has written, that however just the promi- 
nent traits may be, the shading which more or less 
belongs to every human character, is wanting. Un- 
doubtedly, Gilbert Tennent had his imperfections, 
and they were sometimes sufficiently visible. But, 
on the whole, it must be confessed, that he was a 
very eminent minister of Jesus Christ, and was made 
the instrument of performing a great work, in his 
day. His memory ought to be precious in the Pres- 
byterian church. Dr. Finley says, " that the seals 
of his ministry in New Brunswick and parts adja- 
cent, where he first exercised his ministry, were nu- 
merous. Many have I known, in those, and other 
parts where he only preached occasionally, whose 
piety was unquestioned, who owned him for their 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 43 

spiritual father : and many I have heard of in diffe- 
rent places." 

Though Dr. Finley^s description of the character 
of Gilbert Tennent is full, it will be satisfactory to 
have the the testimony of some other distinguished 
persons respecting him. The Rev. Mr. Prince, a 
pious and learned minister of Boston, speaks of Mr. 
Tennent in the follawing terms. " In private con- 
versation, I found him to be a man of considerable 
parts and learning ; free, gentle, and condescending, 
and from his own varjous experience, his reading 
the most eminent writers on experimental divinity, 
as well as the scriptures, and from his conversing 
with many who had been awakened by his ministry, 
in New Jersey, he seemed to have as deep an ac- 
quaintance with the experimental part of religion, 
as any I have conversed with. And his preaching 
was as searching and - rousing, as ever I heard." — 
'^ He seemed to have such a lively view of the divine 
Majesty — of the 'spirituality, purity, extensiveness, 
and strictness of the law, with his glorious holiness, 
and displeasure at sin ; his justice, truth, and power, 
in punishing the damned, that the very terrors of God 
seemed to rise in his mind afresh, when he displayed 
and brandished them in the eyes of unreconciled 
sinners." And the same writer speaks of his re- 
markable discrimination and skill in detecting hypo- 
crites, « and laying open their many vain and secret 
refuges, counterfeit resemblances, their delusive 



44 THE RET. GILBERT TEX5E5T. 

hopes^ their utter impotence, and impending danger 
of destruction." 

It will be gratifying to learn what Mr. White- 
field's opinion was of the subject of this memoir. 
And this we have given very freely and fully, in his 
Journal, to which reference has already been made. 
<^Nov. 13, [1739]. Left Trenton about six in the 
morning, had a sweet and pleasant journey, and 
reached Brunswick, about thirty miles distant, about 
one o^clock. Here we were much refreshed with 
the company of Mr. Gilbert Tennent, an eminent 
dissenting minister, about forty years of age, son to 
that good old man who came to see me on Saturday, 
at Philadelphia. God, I find, has been pleased 
greatly to bless his labours., lie and his associates, 
are now the burning and shining lights of this part 
of America. He recounted to me many remarkable 
effusions of the Blessed Spirit, which have been sent 
down among them. And one may judge of their 
being true and faithful soldiers of Jesus Christ, be- 
cause they are every where spoken evil of, by natu- 
ral men. The devil and carnal ministers rage horri- 
bly against them. Several pious souls came to see 
me at his house, with whom I took sweet counsel.*' 
« Wednesday, Nov. 14. Set out early from Bruns- 
wick, with my dear fellow-travellers, and my worthy 
brother and fellow-labourer, Mr. Tennent. As we 
passed along, we spent our time most agreeably in 
telling what God had done for our souls.^ 



9f 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 45 

Upon their arrival at New York, Mr. Whitefield 
goes on to say, "I went to the meetinghouse to hear 
Mr. Gilbert Tennent preach, and never before, heard 
I such a searching sermon. He went to the bottom, 
indeed, and did not daub with untempered mortar. 
He convinced me more and more, that we can preach 
the gospel of Christ no further than we have expe- 
rienced the power of it in our own hearts. Being 
deeply convicted of sin, and being from time to time 
driven from his false bottom and dependencies, by 
Grod's Holy Spirit, at his first conversion, he has 
learned experimentally to dissect the heart of the 
natural man. Hypocrites must either soon be con- 
verted or enraged, at his preaching. He is < a son 
of thunder,* and does not regard the face of man. 
He is deeply sensible of the deadness and formality 
of the Christian church, in these parts, and has given 
noble testimonies against it.'* 

A higher testimony, and from higher authority 
could not be given, upon earth. It is doubtful whe- 
ther Mr. Whitefield has ever expressed so high an 
opinion of any other preacher, of any denomination. 
Indeed, it is probable, that he never met with a man 
of a more perfectly congenial spirit with his own. 
As Mr. Whitefield was doubtless honoured to be 
the instrument of the conversion of more souls than 
any other preacher of his age, or perhaps of any age, 
since that of the apostle Paul; so Mr. Tennent, 

among orthodox preachers, luidoubtedly deserves 

D 



46 THE KEr. GTLBEKT TENirEHr. 

to be placed next to him^ both in the abundance q€ 
his labours, and the wonderful success which at- 
tended his ministry. 

When in the year 1740, Mr. Whitefield retumed 
from Boston, he persuaded and urged Mr. Gilbert 
Tennent, to make a preaching tour through New 
England, as far as Boston, to water the good seed 
which he had there sown by his preaching, on his late 
visit. At that time, there was but little intercourse 
i^etween the middle and eastern colonies ; and no ec- 
elesiastical connexion between the Presbyterian and 
Congregational churches. Mr. Whitefield's preach- 
ing, attended by the mighty power of Grod, not only 
was the means of the conviction and conversion of 
many of his hearers ; but he also excited a host of 
enemies, who pursued him with unrelenting hostili- 
ty; and among his opposers were reckoned, both in 
thiscountry and in Great Britain, the majority of the 
dergy and of professors of religion. Thus verifying' 
the words of our Lord, " If they have persecuted me, 
they will also persecute you ; if they have kept my 
■ sayings, they will keep yours also.*' Mr. Tennent 
miKt have been inflamed with a very ardent zeal, 
situated as he was, the pastor of a church, and the 
father of a family, to set off" in the depth of winter, 
to preach to a strange people, among whom he pro- 
bably had not a single acquaintance, either among 
the clergy or the laity. But invincible resolution, 
was a prominent trait in his character. Mr. White- 



rrHK »EV. fG?ILB»KT TFimiTNT. 47 

field made no journeys without several attendants ; 
men who.cheerfully ministered unto him, as did Tim- 
othy, and Luke, and Silas, and Mark and others, ta 
Paul. ^ But Mr. Tennent appears, to have gone on 
this celf-denying and evangelical tour, alone. He 
was infliteneed by no curiosity to see a country not 
before visited ; nor could he have hc^d any secular 
motive to induce him to perform so laborious a ser- 
rice, as that in which he now engaged. 

As Mr. Whitefield'd preaching had ^i&indied a 
considerable flame in Boston, Mr. Tennent directed 
his course immediately to ithat^ity ; whene he arrived 
on the 13th jof December, 1740 ; and here he con- , 
tinued fiir aearly three months, preaching almost 
every day, with extraordinary power and success. 
There were, however, there, many who were ready 
to welcome him ; and several of the excellent minis- 
ters of the town cordially received this zealous preach- 
er, and opened their pulpits — and, indeed^ some of 
them, gave tkem up to him, while he continued in 
the place. Among those who received him joyfully, 
was the Rev. Mr. Prince, the author of ^< The Chris- 
tian History,'' from whose pen we are favoured with 
an account of Mr. Tennent's manner of preaching, 
during his ministry in Boston. " It was,'* says he, 

"both terrible and searching. It was for matter, 
justly terrible, as he, according to the inspired oracles, 
exhibited the dreadful holiness, justice, law-threai- 

enings, truth, power, and majesty of God, and his 

D2 



48 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

anger with rebellious, impenitent, and Christless sin- ^ 
ners : the awful danger they were in every moment 
of being struck down to hell, and damned forever, 
with the amazing miseries of that place of torment 
By his arousing and scriptural preaching, deep and 
pungent convictions were wrought in the minds of 
many hundreds of persons, in that town ; and the 
same effect was produced in several scores, in the 
neighbouring congregations. And now, was such a 
time as we never knew. The Rev. Mr. Cooper was 
wont to say, that more came to him in one week, in 
deep concern, than in the whole twenty-four years 
of his preceding ministry. I can say also the same, 
as to the numbers who repaired to me." "By a 
letter of Mr. Cooper — one of the evangelical minis- 
ters of Boston — to a friend in Scotland, it appears, he 
had had about six hundred different persons to visit 
him on the concerns of their souls, in three month's 
time. And Mr. Webb — another of the pious Boston 
ministers — ^informs me, he has had, in the same space, 
above a thousand." 

But it will be satisfactory to hear Mr. Tennent's 
own account of this visit ; which is found in a letter 
addressed to Mr. Whitefield, by whose urgent en- 
treaty he was persuaded to undertake the journey. 
This letter has been preserved in that excellent book, 
"Gillies's Historical Collections," of which there 
certainly ought to be a new edition, as copies of the 
work, are becoming very scarce. 



the rev. gilbert tennent. 49 

<< Very dear brother, 

In my return home, I have been preach- 
ing daily 5 ordinarily, three times in a day, and some- 
times, oftener : and, through pure grace, I have met 
with success much exceeding my expectations. In 
the town of Boston, there were many hundreds, if 
not thousands!, as some have judged, under soul-con- 
cern. When I left the place, many children were 
deeply affected about their souls, and several had re- 
ceived consolation. Some aged persons in church- 
communion, and some open opposers, were con- 
vinced. Divers of the young and middle aged were 
converted, and several negroes. The concern was 
rather more general at Charlestown. Multitudes 
were awakened, and several had received great con- 
solation; especially among the young people, chil- 
dren, and negroes. In Cambridge, also, in the town 
and in the college, the shaking among the dry bones 
was general, and several of the students have re- 
ceived consolation.'' He then proceeds to name 
more than twenty towns to which the revival had 
extended ; and in most of which he had preached on 
his return home. << In New Haven," says he, " the 
concern was general, both in the college, and in the 
town. About thirty students came on foot, ten miles, 
to hear the word of God. And at Milford, the con- 
cern was general. I believe, by a moderate calcula- 
tion, divers thousands have been awakened. Glory 

to God on high ! I thank you sir, that you did excite 

D3 



50 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT, 

me to this journey. I have had good information, 
that on Long Island, God has blessed my poor la- 
bours, on my pass to New England. The work of 
God spreads more and more. My brother William 
has had remarkable success, this winter, at Burling- 
\ ton. Mr. John Cross has had remarkable success at 
IStaten Island ; and many, I hear, have been awak-* 
'ened by the labours of Mr. Robinson, in New York 
'government. Mr. Mills has had remarkable success 
in Connecticut, particularly at New Haven. And 
I hear that Mr. Blair has had remarkable success, in 
Pennsylvania." 

On the subject of this great revival, which extended 
from Massachusetts to Georgia, the ministers of the 
synod were greatly divided. For while some ap- 
proved the work, and were principal instruments in 
(promoting it, a majority considered it an ebullition 
\of enthusiasm, which tended neither to the glory of 
Bod, nor to the real benefit of immortal souls. And 
concerning Mr. Whitefield and his preaching, there 
was an entire dissension. And this difference, relat- 
ing to the great and vital interests of religion, pro- 
duced exasperation. The friends of the revival 
considered all who opposed it, as setting themselves 
in opposition to a glorious work of God's grace, and 
they could not but view all who openly spoke against 
the revival, or opposed it in any way, to be the ene- 
mies of God. Hence, they too hastily took up the 
opinion, that all those ministers who disapproved the 



THJB Il£V. GILBERT TENN^NT. 51 

work, were unconverted men ; that they were mere 
formalists, and knew nothing of the vital powe;: of 
religion; but trusted" to a, mere profession of ortho* 
doxy, and that if in words they did not deny the 
truths of God, they did, in fact: and though they 
might acknowledge the truth in theory, it was with 
them a <<dead^ortbodoxy,^^ which they held in un- . 
righteousness. On the other hand, the opposers of . 
the revival, blamed the kind of preaching which the 
revivalists adoptied ; especially, the dwelling so much 
damned. Theychargedthe leaders in the revival with ^ 
on the terrors of the law, and the torments of the 
encouraging enthusiastic raptures,, and making reli- 
gibn to consist too much in strong emotion, and vio- 
lent excitement, attended often with bodily affec- 
tions. They weye also greatly offended with the 
harsh, uncharitable spirit with which they were 
denounced, and misrepresented, by the preachers on 
the other sade ; and their opposition to no one, unless 
Mr. Whitefield be an exception, was greater than 
to Mr. Gilbert Tennent. Indeed, all must acknow- 
ledge, that among the friends and promoters of the 
revival, he stood pre-eminent ; and in the harshness 
of his censures, and the severity of his denunciation, 
he went fer before all his brethren. It cannot be 
doubted that before the conunencement of this ex- 
traordmary revival of religion, the Presbyteriaii 
church in America, was in a most deplorable state 
of deadness and formality ; and that the necessity of 



53 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

a change of heart was very little inculcated from the 
pulpit, or understood by the people. Here it may 
be remarked, that the founder of the Log College, 
and all the pupils of that school were warm friends of 
the revival, and exerted themselves with all their 
might to promote the good woric. 



CHAPTER IV. 

Rer. Gilbert Teiment's Contest with the synod— Severity of his 
censures — New Brunswick presbytery protest against th^ sy- 
nod's act — Violate it — Are excluded irregularly from the synod — 
Form a separate Body — Judgment of their conduct. 

We come now to a period of Gilbert Tennent^s 
life, in which he was called to act a very conspicuous 
part in the affairs of the Presbyterian church. A 
great schism took place in the synod; in bringing about 
which, it must be admitted, he had his full share. 
It took place, indeed, by the expulsion of himself, 
and the other members of the New Brunswick pres- 
bjrtery, from the synod: but he had provoked his 
opponents by one of the most severely abusive ser- 
mons which was ever penned, called, " The Not- 
tingham Sermon,'^ because it was preached at that 
place. And in the protests which he and Mr. Samuel 
Blair presented to the synod, in 1740, the majority of 
the members of the synod were exhibited in a very 
unenviable light. Mr. Gilbert Tennent felt himself 
called in providence to attempt to arouse the Pres- 
byterian church from its profound sleep of carnal 
security, and to bring about a reformation in the 
body ; but the majority of the clergy were opposed 



54 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

to his measures, and disparaged what had abready 
been done. He seems, therefore, to have considered 
them as the enemies of the spiritual kingdom of 
Christ; and that it was his duty, in imitation of 
Christ and the ancient prophets, in the plainest and 
most solenm manner, to denounce, and expose their 
hypocrisy, as did our Lord that of the Pharisees. 
But here he made a grand mistake. He could not 
read the hearts of his opponents, and, therefore, bad 
no authority to pronounce a sentence of condenma- 
tion on them. He should have remembered that 
precept of our Lord, « Judge not that ye be not 
judged.^' A difference of opinion from him respect- 
ing the true nature of the revival, and concerning 
Mr. Whitefield^s character, furnished no sufficient 
ground for him to censure and denoimce them, as 
he did : and, especially, as a part of them, at least, 
were excellent men, and sound and judicious theolo- 
gians. They were not the enemies of vital godli- 
ness, but were opposed to what they apprehended 
to be spurious religion. We may now see that they 
erred in their judgment, and pursued a course which 
was very injurious to the people under their care, 
and that they committed a great fault in opposing a 
glorious work of God on account of some irregu- 
larities which accompanied it. One of the greatest 
causes of complaint against Mr. Gilbert Tennent 
and his « New-light'* brethren was, that in viola- 
ti<m ojf order and propriety^ they passed beyond 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 55 

the bounds of their own presbytery, and mtrudedf 
into congregations under the care of other min- 
isters. This, these brethren attenlpted to justify 
by the sound, maxim, employed by the apostles, 
when forbidden to preach by the Jewish rulers, < thati 
we should obey God rather than man.' But it may 
well be doubted, whether, in the circumstances in 
which th^y were placed, the maxini was applicable. 
The ministers into whose congregations they intru- 
ded, belonged to the same synod with themselves, 
and had as good a right to judge what was right 
and expedient, as the " New Side'' ministers. 

We think, therefore, that Mr. Tennent was much 
to be blamed for the course which he pursued, in this 
controversy with the synod ; especially, in the harsh- 
ness, censoriousness, and bitterness which he mani- 
fested towards them ; particularly, in the sermon be- 
fore mentioned; and that his course can by no 
means be justified. He does, indeed, appear in a 
very unAmiable light, and as exceeditigly deficient 
in the meekness and charity of the gospel, in this 
whole controversy. He, doubdess, believed that he 
was doing God service, and that duty required him 
to pursue the course and manifest the spirit which 
he did. And after the. separation had taken place, 
and the heat of the controversy had cooled, he seems 
to have been sensible that he had not done justice to 
the majority of the synod ; for he wrote and pub- 
liriied a large pamphlet called <^ The Pacificator,'' in 



56 THE REV. GILBERT TBNNENT. 

which he strongly pleads for peace, and a re-union of 
the separated parts of the Presbyterian church. This 
desirable event was, after a division which lasted s«ev- 
enteen years, and after long negotiation, accomplish- 
ed ; and Mr. Gilbert Tennent entered cordially into 
the measure. Whatever mistakes- he fell into arose 
from error of judgment, in regard to duty. He. was, 
doubtless, actuated by a sincere and glowing zesA 
for the honour of the Redeemer: and the salvation of 
jsouls. Like the sun, he was a burning and a shin- 
ing light ; but like that luminary, had soma dark 
spots, which, in some measure, marred the beauty 
and symmetry of his otherwise estimable character. 
His natural disposition appears to have been severe, 
and uncompromising ; and he gave strong evidence 
of being very tenacious of all iiis opinions ; and not 
very tolerant of those who dissented from his views, 
as appears by the controversy which he had with 
the Rev. Mr. Cowell, of Trenton ;. and which he 
brought before the synpjd. But with all his faults 
he was^^an extraordinary man, raised up by Provi- 
dence to accomplish a great work. We, of the Pres- 
byterian Church, are more kidebted to the men of 
the Log College for our evangelical views, and for 
our revivals of religion, than we are aware of. By 
their exertions, and the blessing of God on their 
preaching, a new spirit was infused into the Presby- 
: terianbody ; and their views and sentiments respect- 
' ing experimental religion, have prevailed moto-and 



THE REV. GILBERT TENKENT. 57 

more ; until at last, opposition to genuine revivals 
of religion, is almost unknown in our church. It is 
not my purpose to enter into the ecclesiastical trans- 
actions in which Mr. Tennent acted an important 
part, any further than is necessary to form a judg- 
ment of his Christian and ministerial character. 
They who Aemxe to see a lucid view of the ecclesi- 
astical transactions of that period, are referred to Dr. 
Hodge's " Constitutional History op the Pres- 
byterian Church j'^ or they may go to the fountain 
head, by consulting the « Records of the Transac- 
tions of the Synod," recently given to the public, by 
the " Board of Publication.'' 

We have seen that a great schism was produced 
in the Presbyterian body, by a difference of opinion 
among the ministers of the synod, respecting the 
great revival which pervaded many of the churches. 
But though this was the proximate cause of the 
division, by those who attentively consider the his- 
tory of that time, and especially the " Records" of 
the synod itself, it will be seen, that this event was 
actually produced by the Log College. At first 
view, this wDl seem very improbable, but when aH 
the documents are read, and all the circumstances 
of the church. weighed and compared, it will appear 
exceedingly probable, that the erection of this school 
of the prophets was, innocently, the cause of the 
breach which took place in 1741. Here it will be 
necessary to enter somewhat minutely into a consi- 



as THE REV. GILBERT TEXXEXT. 

deration of the condition of the church, prior to the 
commencement of the revival. A liberal education 
was from the beginning, considered an indispensable 
qualification for the gospel ministry in the Pres- 
byterian church. The usual evidence of having 
received such an education was, a diploma firom 
some college or imiversity, in Europe or Ame- 
rica. The Presbyterian ministers, before the erec- 
tion of the Log College, had, nearly all, received 
such an education. We know of but one excep- 
tion, and that was Mr. Evans, whose case has 
already been mentioned. There existed no college 
in any of the middle states, where young men seek- 
ing the ministry, could obtain the requisite learning. 
Until this school was instituted, no young man could 
enter the Presbyterian ministry, without going to 
Scotland or New England for his education; and 
this amounted pretty nearly to closing the door 
against all candidates who were brought up in the 
Presbyterian church ; for very few, in those days, 
could bear the expense of acquiring a liberal educa- 
tion, by going to any college ©r imiversity, on this 
or the other side of the Atlantic. The church, there- 
fore, had to depend for a supply of ministers on im- 
migrat on firom Scotland, Ireland, or New England. 
Most of those who came to settle in the Presbyterian 
church, came from Ireland; except that those pres- 
byteries which bordered on New England, received 
a supply of ministers fi^om that region. It must be 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 59 

evident, at once, that this condition of the church 
was very unfavourable to her prosperity ; for often, 
those who came across the ocean, were not men of 
the best character. They were often mere adven- 
turers, and sometimes had crossed the Atlantic to 
escape from the censure incurred by their miscon- 
duct ; and it was exceedingly difficult, in those days, 
to ascertain the true character of a foreigner, coming 
here as a minister of the gospel ; for though such 
men commonly exhibited ample testimonials from 
abroad, too often these were forged. Several in- 
stances of this very thing have occurred. And as 
the ministers who came in from New England were 
all brought up Congregationalists, and had habits 
and customs, not congenial with those of Scottish 
Presbyterians, their accession to the body had a ten- 
dency to produce confusion and strife. The sons of 
the pilgrims and the descendants of Scottish Presby- 
terians, though holding substantially the same creed, 
have never readily amalgamated into one uniform 
mass : but the habits and prejudices of each have 
been preserved, and kept the people distinct for 
several generations, though living contiguously to 
each other. There seemed, therefore, to be an ur- 
gent necessity for some seminary to be erected with- 
in the limits of the Presbyterian church, where 
young men might be educated for the ministry. It 
is indeed wonderful, that the synod had not paid 
earlier attention to this subject, as being essential to 



60 THB REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

the prosperity of the church. But as far as appears, 
no classical school had been erected in any part of 
the synod, until the Rev. William Tennent connected 
himself with the Presbyterian chinch, and set up a 
school at his own door, in Neshaminy. It is proba- 
ble, that Mr. Gilbert Tennent was the first candi- 
date licensed in the Presbyterian church, who was 
educated within its limits. And as he was thirteen 
or fourteen years of age, when his father arrived, it 
is probable, that his classical education was com- 
menced before he left Ireland; though the principal 
part of his education must have been acquired here ; 
and no doubt, under the paternal roofl And al- 
though we have connected Mr. G. Tennent with the 
Log College, it must be in the character of a teacher, 
rather than a student; for in the very year in which 
his father removed to Neshaminy, he was licensed to 
preach. This was the year 1726. 

Though Gilbert Tennent had received no diploma 
from any college ; yet he passed his trials before the 
mother presbytery of Philadelphia, with great credit 
to himself, and much to the satisfaction of the presby- 
tery. It was now seen, that young men could be well 
prepared for the ministry at home, without going to 
distant colleges. And as Mr. WilUam Tennent, the 
father, had been, as far as is known, the sole in- 
structor of his son, who as soon as licensed, attracted 
public attention, and was seen to be an able 
preacher, the conclusion was easily drawn, that 



THE REV. GILBERT TSNNENT^ (jl 

be would be an excellent person to train up young 
men for the ministry. But though the thing ap- 
peared thus to many plain and pious people; 
others were apprehensive^ that by educating young 
men in this way, the literary qualifications of candi* 
dates would necessarily be greatly diminished. The 
school, however, went on prosperously, and a num- 
ber of young men, who had the ministry in view, 
resorted to the Log College, to pursue their education; 
and here they were not only taught the classics ; 
but studied divinity also ; so that this institution was 
a theological seminary, as well as a college. How 
many years they were occupied with these studies, 
does not appear; but a number of persons educated 
in this school were licensed by the presbyteries, after 
undergoing ^such trials as were usually prescribed 
to candidates, in Scotland and Ireland. And some 
of them, as we shall see, became eminent in the 
church, and were much distinguished as powerful 
and evangelical preachers. Still the impression ex- 
isted, and grew stronger, that this course of instruc- 
tion was not sufficient. To men educated in the 
uiiversities of Europe, furnished with so many pro- 
fessors, and other advantages, it seemed preposterous 
to suppose, that a man could acquire adequate leam- 
mg for the ministry, in this little, paltry log-cabin ; 
and instructed, principally, by one teacher. They 
began, therefore, in the synod, to talk of establishing 
a synodical school, and to express dissatisfaction 



^ 



62 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

with the course of study in the Log College, as it 
was contemptuously called. None doubted of old 
Mr. Tennent^s classical scholarship ; but it was be- 
lieved that his proficiency in the arts and sciences 
was by no means equal to his classical learning. 
And as yoimg men were still entering the church 
from this school, the synod adopted a rule, that no 
presbytery should license any young man until he 
had passed an examination on his literary course, 
before a committee of synod. Two large commit- 
tees, one for the northern part of the synod, and the 
other for the south, were appointed, before whom 
young men were to appear and submit to an exami- 
nation. This rule gave great dissatisfaction to the Ten- 
nents and their friends; for they perceived, at once, 
that this rule was intended to bear on the students of 
the Log College, and they believed it to be a high- 
handed measure, entirely inconsistent with the rights 
of presbyteries, who, as they had the power of or- 
daining ministers, ought to possess the power of 
judging of their qualifications. And what rendered 
the measure more odious to them, they had just suc- 
ceeded in getting a presbytery set off, in New Jer- 
sey, which included most of the friends of the Log 
College. Their object in getting this presbytery 
erected, as they confessed to Mr. Whitefield, was, 
that they might license such young men as they 
deemed properly qualified for the office ; and, in 
their opinion, fervent piety was the first and prin- 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 6^' 

cipal qualification ; though they believed a classical 
education necessary ; yet it seems that they lightly ' 
eiteemed some parts of learning, which the other 
members of the synod thought requisite. And while / 
they were blamed for being too lax in their de- 
mands of a knowledge of literature and science, th^y { 
seriously charged the majority of the synod with neg| • 
lecting to make a thorough examination into the piety ; 
of their candidates. And on several occasions, Mr.' 
Gilbert Tennent brought this matter before the synod, 
and obtained from them some formal resolutions, in 
favour of inquiring carefully into the personal piety 
of the candidates. And when the order was passed, 
rendering it necessary for candidates to appear be- 
fore a committee of the synod, Mr. Gilbert Tennent 
and his friends entered their protest against the regu- 
lation. But to be more exact in regard to this first 
measure, which divided the synod into two parties, it 
will be proper to observe, that the regulation adopted 
in the year 1738, was occasioned by an overture 
from the presbytery of Lewes, in which they say, 
«That this part of the \^orld, where God has ordered 
our lot, labours under grievous disadvantage for 
want of the opportunities of universities, and pro- 
fessors skilled in the several branches of useful 
learning ; and that many students from Europe, are 
especially cramped in prosecuting their studies; 
iheir parents removing to these colonies before they 

have an opportunity of attending the college, after 

E 



\ 



W THE KEV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

having spent some years at the grammar school ; 
send that many persons, born in this country, groan 
under the same pressure, whose circumstances are 
not able to support them to spend a course of years 
in the European or New England colleges, which 
discourages much, and must be a detriment to our 
church, for we know that natural parts, however 
great and promising, for want of being well im- 
proved, must be marred in their usefulness, and 
cannot be so extensively serviceable to the public ; 
and that want paves the way for ignorance, and 
this for a formidable train of sad consequenees. To 
prevent this evil, it is humbly proposed, as a reme- 
dy, that every student, with approbation not pursu- 
ing the usual courses, in some of the New England 
or European colleges approved by public authority, 
shal],before he be encouraged by any presbytery for 
the sacred work of the ministry, apply himself to 
this synod, and that they appoint a committee of 
jtheir members, yearly, whom they know to be well 
skilled in the several branches of philosophy, divi- 
nity, and the languages, to examine such students, 
n this place, and finding them well accomplished in 
these several parts of learning, shall allow them a 
public testimony from the synod, which, till better 
provision be made, will, in some measure, answer 
the design of taking a degree in college. And, for 
the encouragement of students, let this be done 
without putting them to further expenses than attend- 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNEXT. G5 

iiig. And let it be an objection against none where 
they have studied, or what books ; but let all en- 
couragement be only according to merit, &c." The 
synod, by a great majority, approved the overture, 
and proceeded to appoint two committees, the one 
for the region north of Philadelphia, and the other 
lor the country south of that city. 

It does not appear that any dissent or protest was 
entered on the minutes at the time, but the nest 
year, the presbytery of New Brunswick sent up a 
remonstrance. The paper containing the objections 
to the act of the synod of the preeeeding year, is not 
4>n the records; but the synod upon hearing it, 
agreed to re-consider the subject, and after due de- 
liberation, resolved to substitute the following, in- 
stead of the act complained of. " It being the firi^t 
article in our excellent Directory for the examina- 
tion of the candidates for the sacred ministry, that 
they be inquired of, what degrees they have taken 
in the university, &c. And it being oftentimes im- 
practicable for us, in these remote parts of the earth 
to obtain an answer to these questions, of those 
who propose themselves to examination, many of 
our candidates not having enjoyed the advantage of 
a university education, and it behig our desire to 
come to the nearest conformity to the incomparable 
prescriptions of the Directory, that our circiunstances 
will admit of, and after long deliberation of the most 
proper expedients to comply with the intentions o' 



66 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

the Directory, where we cannot exactly fulfil the let- 
ter of it : the synod agree and determine, that every 
person who proposes himself to trial, as a candidate 
for the ministry, and who has not a diploma, ox 

the usual certificates from an European or New 

'i 

England university, shall be examined by the vhole 
sjmod, or its commission, as to these preparatory 
studies, which we generally pass through at the col- 
lege ; and if they find him qualified, they shall give 
him a certificate, which shall be received by our re- 
spective presbyteries, as equivalent to a diploma, or 
Ertificate from the college, &c." But, this form of 
e act was no more acceptable to the New Bnm&- 
ick presbytery than the former; the next day, 
therefore, they entered a protest against the said 
act. This protest was signed by the four Tennents^ 
Samuel Blair, and Eleazer Wales, ministers, and by 
four elders. The synod, it appears, were determined 
to bring the pupils of the Log College, imder their 
own examination, before they would suffer any 
more of them to be received as members of the 
synod, or to preach as candidates in the churches. 
And the firiends of this institution were exceedingly 
averse to having their young men examined by 
the synod ; either, because they were conscious that 
(they would be found defective in some of the 
': branches usually pursued in the college course, or, 
because they were of opinion that the major part of 
; the synod were prejudiced against this humble iu- 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNSVT. 67 

stitution, and against all who were connected with 
it Probably^ both these considerations had thetr 
weight, in leading them to oppose so strenuously a 
measure, which to us seems reasonable and necessa- 
ty, to guard the ministry against the intrusion of 
unqualified ccmdidates. For, it appears, that this 
examination, by the synod, was not intended to in- 
terfere with the right of presbyteries to examine 
their candidates ; but to be a substitute Joi a diplo- ^^ 
ma, which the Directory seemed to require. For 
when a young man presented his certificate to a 
presbytery, if, upon examination, they were not sat- 
isfied, they could reject him notwithstanding his cer- 
tificate. 

But the fact was, that the New Brunswick pres- 
bytery had already committed themselves. At their 
very first meeting, in August 1738, they took on 
trial a certain Mr. Rowland, one of the scholars of 
the Log College, in direct violation of the act of the 
synod. And after the synod had re-considered the 
matter, and re-enacted the same thing, in different 
words, this presbytery proceeded with the trials of 
Mr. Rowltod, and licensed him to preach the 
gospel And, not long afterwards, ordained him. 
The synod refused to recognise Mr. Rowland as a 
member of their body; for, though they did not 
deny that by the act of the presbytery he was a real 
minister; yet, they alleged, that they had a right to 

determine who should and who should not become 

E3 



68 THE REV. GILBERT TEKNENT. 

members of their owii body. Henceforth, the parties 
became much exasperated against each other. Tlie 
friends of the Log College saw, that the act of the 
synod was directed against that institution, for there 
was no other school at that time, in the boimds of 
the synod, where yomig men were trained for the 
muiistry. And this was not all. The act implied a 
reflection on all those who had before entered the 
ministry from this school. And the majority of 
Sjrnod were grievously oflended, that one of their 
presbyteries, and one too just created, should so dis- 
regard the authority of the supreme judicatory of 
the chiuch, as to act in open defiance of an act 
formed after much discussion and deliberation, in the 
synod, 

One thiiig necessary to be known, in order to 
form an impartial judgment rcspectmg the dispute 
wliich arose in the sjiiod, but which cannot at this 
distance of time be accurately ascertained, is, what 
sort of education was actually received at this fa- 
mous institution. Was it as solid and thorough as 
could be obtained within the hmits of the Presbvte- 
rian church ? If so, even if compared with that 
which was given in the universities of Europe, it 
was in some parts defective, this was no good reason 
why the institution should be frowned upon, by the 
synod. Instead of this, they ought to have recog- 
nised and cherished it, and should have endeavoured 
to raise it higher, and to enlarge its advantages. As 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 69 

far as we have observed, this school, although al- 
ready it had produced a number of distinguished 
preachers, is never once mentioned in the minutes 
of the synod ; except hi their letter to President 
Clapp, of which further notice will be taken. It is 
true, that most of the members of synod had en- 
joyed the advantages of an university education, 
in Europe or New England; and it cannot be. 
supposed that equal advantages could be had in 
the little Log Cabin at Neshaminy. But it is 
a well known fact, that men's eminence in learn- 1 
ing, does not always correspond with the privileges 
enjoyed. If we compare Gilbert Tennent, Samuel 
Blair, Samuel Finley, William Tennent, jr., and John 
Blair, with an equal niunber of their opposers, they 
certainly will not suflfer in public opinion, by the 
comparison. And one advantage they possessed 
who were educated in the Log College, that the' 
spirit of piety seems to have been nourished in that 
institution. All, as far as we can learn, who pro- 
ceeded from this school, were men of sound ortho- 
doxy, evangelical spirit, glowing zeal, and in labours 
very abundant. They had, we have reason to be- 
lieve, the teaching of the Holy Spirit ; and without 
the advantages which others enjoyed, they became 
« burning and shining lights." They were the 
friends and promoters of revivals of religion, which 
their censurers bitterly opposed. Still, we do not 
justify their irregular and insubordinate acts. Gil- 



1 



70 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

. bert Tennent and Samuel Blair were men of invin- 

I 

' cible firmness-^ firmness, bordering on obstinacy. 

; They were the leaders in this warfare. They saw 
a great harvest before them, and the Lord seemed to 
attend their labours every where with a blessing, and 
they were led to think, that mere forms of order, 
and regulations of ecclesiastical bodies were of triv- 
ial importance, compared with the advancement of 
the Redemer's kingdom, and the salvation of souLs. 
They felt, as did the apostles, and first reformers, 
that they were called to go every where preaching 
the gospel, without regard to prescribed limits of 
presbyteries or congregations; especially, as they 
observed, that many pastors neglected to inculcate 
on their hearers, the necessity of a change of heart, 
and that the people were as really perishing for lack 
of knowledge, as they were under Jewish or Popidi 
instructors. They felt themselves bound, therefore, 
to preach far and wide, wherever the people would 
hear them ; and although there was irregularity in 
this, judging by human and ecclesiastical rules ; yet 
I doubt not, that in the main, their zealous and ex- 
hausting laboiu^s have met with a large reward. 
Weak enthusiasts, or fierce fanatics may abuse the 
principle on which they acted ; but the same tiling 
occurred at the time of the bles!5l*i reformation from 
popery. We must not neglect to do all the good we 
can because some may pervert our example, to sanc- 
tion their own lawless proceedings. 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 71 

I cannot express how much the Presbyterian 
church, in these United States, is indebted to the 
labours of this very corps, who studied successfully 
the sacred oracles in the Loo College ; or more 
probably, under the beautiful groves which shaded 
the banks of the Neshaminy. There they studied, 
and there they prayed. 

But I do riot meaur to justify all that was done by 
these zealous men. As was admitted before, they 
did not act towards their brethren in the ministry,! 
with brotherly affection, and Christian meekness. | 
Gilbert Tennent indulged himself in very unwarranta- 
ble language in speaking of men clothed with the same 
office as himself, and members of the same synod. 
Nothing could have justified his treatment of them, 
unless he had been inspired to know that they were 
a set of hypocrites, or, unless their lives had been 
wicked, or their faith heretical; none of which things 
were alleged against them. 

But while it is admitted, that Mr. Gilbert Tennent 
was a principal instrument in provoking a majority 
of the synod to exscind the New Brunswick pres- 
bytery, it does not appear, that either he, or his 
friends wished to bring about a separation in the 
church. Their object was to produce a reformation, 
if possible, among the ministers, and in the churches 
under the care of the synod ; though it must be 
acknowledged, that their zeal led them to make use 
of unjustifiable means to accomplish the desired end. 



72 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

It need not, therefore, be a matter of surprize, that 
GUbert Tennent was among the first to seek a re- 
conciliation and re-union of the parties. To pro- 
mote this object, he wrote and published a pamphlet, 
entitled, " The Pacificator," in which he reasons 
strongly in favour of peace and union.^ Between 
the contending parties, there existed, really, no dif- 
1 fetence on doctrinal points ; except that the New 
• Side were blamed for dwelling too much on the 
j terrors of the law, and insisting too strongly on the 
, necessity of legal conviction for sin. And on church 
' government there was scarcely a shade of difference. 
The membersof the New Brunswick presbytery were 
disposed to consider presbyteries, as the origin of ec- 
clesiasticcal power ; while the majority of the synod 
probably thought, that all the power of the church 
was concentrated in the synod, then the supreme 
judicatory. And the same difference of opinion 
still exists in the Presbyterian Church, for while 
some are of opinion, that synods and General As- 
semblies possess limited powers, defined by the con- 
stitution of the church, and that all ecclesiastical 
power emanates from the presbyteries, which they 
consider the essential body in our church govern- 
ment ; there are others, who consider the synod in 
no other light than a larger presbytery ; and the (Jene- 
ral Assembly, as it were, a universal presbytery, pos- 
sessing all the powers of the inferior judicatories* 
Whidierer of these be the more cm rect theory of ou 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 73 

Presbyterian church government, the presbytery of 
New Brunswick has always been firm in maintaining 
the rights of presbyteries against the encroachments 
of the higher judicatories. And, certainly, our higher 
judicatories were constituted by/ the junction of 
presbyteries. In Scotland, the General Assembly 
existed before there were either presbyteries or 
sjniods, and all church power descended from that 
body; but not so with us, where presbyteries first 
existed, of which the higher judicatories were formed. 



K 



CHAPTER T. 

Mr. Gilbert Tennent removes to Philadelplua to be the pastor of the 
Second Presbyterian church. — Mission to Great Britain for the 
Gottege of New Jersey — Exertions to* get a commodious church 
erected— His Sickness and Death— -Eulogy on his character — 
His Publications. 

The preaching of Mr. Whitefield, in Philadelphia, 
was the means of the conversion of many souls. A 
number of these, with others who agreed with them 
in sentiment, and were admirers of Mr. Whitefield's 
preaching, and friends of the revival, had formed a 
new Presbyterian congregation, in that city. And 
being desirous to obtain a pastor of like views and 
sentiments with themselves, and one possessed of 
talents and eloquence suited to such a station, turned 
their eyes upon the Rev. Gilbert Tennent. Their 
call to him was presented in May, 1743, just two 
years after the rupture of the synod, which took 
place, in the same city. Mr. Tennent did not hesi- 
tate to accept this call, as he saw that the sphere of 
his influence would be greatly enlarged. He was, 
therefore, regularly released from his pastoral 
charge in New Bnmswick, where he had preached 
for sixteen years. In the important station, on 
which he now entered, he continued to exercise his 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 75 

ministry with great fidelity and diligence, for twenty 
years. During this whole period, comprehendii^ 
more than one half of his ministerial life, he seems 
to have lived in peace with all men. The fiery 
edge of his zeal had worn off, and he had found by 
experience, that neither people nor ministers were 
ever rendered better by vituperative attacks from the 
pulpit, or the press. During the whole of the latter 
part of his life, Mr. Gilbert Tennent, as far as has 
come to our knowledge, never had any controversy 
with any of his brethren, but seems to have con- 
ducted himself in a friendly, and peaceable manner, 
toward all men. From this it would seem, that he 
was not of a quarrelsome or litigious spirit. And it 
may hence be fairly inferred, that the warm contro- 
versies in which he engaged with his brethren of 
the synod of Philadelphia, were entered into con- 
scientiously, and on principle. And we have no 
doubt, that in this whole concern, be was, at the 
time, fully persuaded, that he was doing God service, 
and performing a painful duty toward his opposing 
brethren, which he could not with a good con- 
science omit. But as was before said, we are 
of opinion that he was mistaken and proceeded on 
an erroneous principle ; and there is good reason to 
think, that he was of the "same opinion himself, in 
this latter part of his life. 

The only interruption of his pastoral labours, in 
Philadelphia, was occasioned by a mission to Great 



^ 



76 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

Britain, in conjunction with the Rev. Samuel Davies^ 
of Virginia, for the College of New Jersey. At the 
request of the Trustees of New Jersey College, the 
Synod of New York appointed these two gentlemen, 
to cross the Atlantic, to solicit funds for the College. 
The mission was, in a good degree, successful ; but 
of this our only account is found in the diary of 
the Rev, Mr. Davies. It does not appear, that 
Mr. Tennent ever kept any journal, or diary, 
at home or abroad. From Mr. Davies's jour- 
nal we learn, that he and Mr. Tennent went on board 
a vessel bound for London, Nov. 17, 1753, and on 
the next day, set sail. They arrived in London, on 
the 25th of December, and were well received. We 
are unable to give any account of Mr. Tennent's 
preaching and its effects on the people whom he 
addressed, for he and Mr. Davies seem to have 
been separated from each other, for the most part- 
But in regard to the direct object of their mission, 
he says, under date of April 7, 1754, " We have had 
most surprising success in our mission ; which, not- 
withstanding the languor of my nature, I cannot re- 
view without passionate emotions. From the best 
information of our friends, and our own observation 
on our arrival here, we could not raise our hopes 
above jesoo, but we have already got about £1200. 
Our friends in America cannot hear the news with 
the same surprise, as they do not know the difficul- 
ties we have had to encounter with ; but to me. it ap- 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 77 

pears the most signal interposition of Providence, I 
ever saw/* 

While Mr. Gilbert Teniient was in Great Britain, 
a friend to the conversion of the Indians, put into his 
hands, two hundred pounds sterling, to be made use 
of by the synod of New York, in sending missiona- 
ries to these heathen tribes. This seems to have 
excited, for a time, a considerable missionary spirit 
among the ministers in connexion with this synod. 
Several pastors, who had charges, went on tempo- 
rary missions ; and Mr. John Brainerd devoted him- 
self wholly to the work, among the tribes who reside 
in New Jersey, 

John Brainerd was the brother of David, whose 
devoted missionary life is so- well known, and has 
had so powerful an effect in exciting the missionary 
spirit His brother succeeded him, supported by the 
same society in Scotland, which had supported him- 
selfl But after some time he relinquished the mis- 
sionary work and accepted a pastbral charge in the 
town of Newark, New Jersey, The contribution 
from Scotland was now withdrawn, as there was no 
missionary among the Indians. But when Mr. Ten- 
nent returned with the aforementioned sum, appro- 
priated to this object, the synod of New York,renewed 
their missionary enterprise : and as the very.name; of 
Brainerd was precious to the Indians of New Jersey, 
Mr. John Brainerd by the advice of the synod, re* 
signed bis charge and returned to the Indians* 



78 THE REV. GILBEBT TENNENT. 

" The Rev. Messrs. Tennent and Da vies, when iix 
Great Britain, receved from various persons, in Lon- 
don, the sum of £298 17s. <for the education of such 
youth for the ministry of the gospel, in the College 
of New Jersey, as are unable to defray the expenses 
of their education; who appear upon proper exami- 
nation to be of promising genius, Calvinistic princi- 
ples, and in the judgment of charity, experimentally 
acquainted with the work of saving grace, and to 
have distinguished zeal for the glory of God, and 
the salvation of men.' The annual interest of the 
aforesaid sum only was to be applropriated. To 
this sum was added by another donor, dSlO 7s. 6d., 
making the whole of this charitable fund to be 
de307 4s. 6d. 

"The money aforesaid was, by Messrs. Tennent 
and Davies put into the hands of the Trustees of 
New Jersey College, to be applied to the education 
of such youth, of the character above mentioned, as 
shall be examined and approved by the synod of 
New York, (or by what name soever, that body of 
men may be hereafter called) and by them recom- 
mended to the trustees of said college, and to be 
divided among such youths, in proportion as said 
B3rnod shall think fit." To the above sums, fifty 
pounds JBterling were added, by an individual, making 
the whole sum je357 4s. 6d.* 

* This fund was nearly all lost during the revolutionary 
war. 



Ik 



TU£ REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 79 

A report has attained some currency, that Mr. 
Tennent. and Mr. Dayies did not perfectly harmo- 
nize, when on this mission ; but though it is possible 
that some coolness may have arisen between these 
eminent ministers, there is not any written document 
where we have seen the least hint of any difference. 
And from the suavity of Mr. Davies's disposition, and 
the perfect politeness of his manners, we cannot think 
that there is any foundation for the f eport. The men^ 
it is true, in natural disposition, were not altogether 
congenial; for while the manners of one were polished 
and calculated to please, it is probable, those of the 
other were rough, blunt, and not at all courtly. We 
shall therefore, dismiss this report as one of the thou- 
sands which have no probable foundation. No doubt, 
Mr. Davies carried off the palm, as to popularity, in 
London, and other places ; and if Mr. Tennent was 
at all susceptible of the feelings of envy, which are 
very natural to the human heart, and the remains 
of which are often fouiid lurking in the hearts of 
ministers, as well as others, he might have felt 
badly in finding himself eclipsed by a much younger 
man. But as was said, we have no right to charge 
him with any such feeling, and we are confident, 
that Mr. Davies's treatment of him, must have been 
uniformly respectful and affectionate ; for it was so 
to everybody. 

After Mr. Tennent's settlement in Philadelphia, 
he exerted himself with great energy, and perse- 



80 THE REV. GILBERT TBNNENT, 

verance, to get a good house of . wordiip erected for 
the congregation, whicdi he served. Indeed^ at that 
time, the bviilding of such an edifice as that which 
by his indefatigable exertions was erecteii at the 
northeast comer, at the intersection of Mulberry 
and Third streets, for the second Presbyterian church* 
in Philadelphia, was a great work. Very few of 
the Presbyterian denomination then, possessed miich 
wealth. Mr. Tennent not only obtained nearly all 
the subscriptions for the building, but actually su- 
perintended the work, in person, and assiduously 
watched over it, from its commencement to its com- 
pletion. After some time, the congregation added a 
handsome steeple to the building. 

Such men as Mr. Gilbert Tennent always appear 
greatest in times of excitement, and stirring activity. 
It may well be doubted, whether his preaching was 
as awakening and impressive, after his removal to 
Philadelphia, as it was before. Some change in his 
views and feelings, as to the best method of pro- 
moting religion had taken place, it would be very 
natural to suppose. The warmth of his religious 
feelings had in some measure cooled, and the vio- 
lence of his zeal had, by time and experience, been 
mitigated. From this time he seems to have gone 
along as quietly as other ministers around him. We 
thus judge, because we have never heard of any re- 
markable effects of his preaching, after his settlement 
in Philadelphia. There is another thing which 




THE REV. OILBEST TENNENT. 81 

ought not to be overlooked. In a great city, the 
hearers are more fastidious than in the country, and 
will not tolerate so much liberty of digression, and 
so frequent departinres from good taste ai»d correct 
composition. Before Mr. Gilbert Tennent went 
to Philadelphia, though, doubtless, he studied his 
sermons carefully, and digested his matter under 
a sufficient variety of heads, yet he preached with- 
out having written his discourses, and Uke all ardent 
preachers, gave himself great indulgence, in pursu- 
ing any new train of ideas which was presented 
during the time of preaching. But when settled in 
a great city, he thought it necessary, for the sake of 
correctness, to write his sermons, and read them from 
the pulpit. This circumstance alone, probably, 
produced a great alteration in his mode of preaching. 
Many men who preach admirably when free to fol- 
low the thoughts which they have arranged, or to 
pursue such as spring up at the time, when confined 
to a discourse written in the study, appear to be very 
much cramped, and lose much of their vivacity and 
natural eloquence. The writer once conversed with 
a plain and pious man, who in early life being ap- 
prenticed to a trade in Philadelphia, attended Mr. 
Tennent's ministry. We asked him respecting his 
manner of preaching. He answered simply, *^ that 
Mr. Tennent was never worth any thing after he 
came to Philadelphia ;" « for," said he, « he took to 

reading his sermons, and lost all his animation." 

F 




83 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

This testimony came from a class not sufficiently 
considered, when the best mode of preaching is un- 
der consideration. Our reference is too much to the 
taste of men of cultivated minds, who form but a 
small part of any congregation; and even these, 
when pious, are better pleased with blimdering sim- 
plicity joined with animation, than with cold accu- 
racy, when the most solemn truths are delivered 
without emotion. 

Mr. Tennent, however, though he probably lost a 
considerable portion of his early vehemence and 
impressiveness ; yet composed discourses, sound and 
instructive. This will appear more clearly when we 
come to speak of his writings. 

The interest of Mr. Gilbert Tennent in revivals, 
and his joy at the conversion of sinners, continued 
unabated. For in March 1757, an extraordinary 
revival of religion occurred in the New Jersey col- 
lege, concerning which he thus speaks in the preface 
to one of his volumes of sermons : "In March last, I 
received a letter from the College of New Jersey, in- 
forming me of an extraordinary appearance of the 
Divine po^er and presence there, and requesting I 
would come and see. With this kind motion I gladly 
compUed ; and having been there some time, had all 
the evidence of the aforesaid report, which could be 
in reason desired.'^ He then inserts a letter from 
Ub brother WilUam, giving a particular account of 
tte nature and progress of the work; which was ad- 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNBNT. S$ 

dressed to the Rev. Dr. Finley, and the autograph of 
which the writer has seen. This letter shall be giv- 
en entire, when we come to give an account of the 
life of the Rev. William Tennent, jr. 

For about three years before his death, Mr. Tea- 
nent became very infirm ; so that he was unable to 
go through the duties which devolved upon him as 
the pastor of a large city congregation. In Decem- 
ber 1762, the congregation got leave to present a 
call to the Rev. George Duffield, D. D., then of Car- 
lisle, to be a co-pastor with Mr. Tennent. This call 
Dr. Duffield declined to accept ; and the congregation 
remained without another pastor, until Mr. Tennent'a 
death ; which event occurred in the year 1764, in the 
sixty-second year of his age. 

Of the circumstances of his death, Dr. Finley, in 
his funeral sermon, says but little. In the general, 
he informs us, that, ^^as he lived to the Lord, so 
death was his imspeakable gain. And his being 
conscious of it made him ardently wish for the pie; 
ing hour, when he should enter into the joy of 
Lord." ... ^^ He had an habitual unshaken assur- 
ance of his interest in redeeming love, for the space 
of more than forty years ; but eight days before his 
death, he got a more clear and affecting sense of it 
still. And though he lamented that he had done so 
little for God, and that his Ufe had been compara- 
tively unprofitable ; yet he triumphed in the grace 

of Jesus Christ, who bad pardoned all his sins ; and 

F2 




84 THE RIV. GILBERT TENNBNT. 

said his assurance of salvation was built on the 
scriptures, and was moFc sure than the sun and 
moon/' 

His congregation placed a monumental stone over 
his remains, in the middle aisle of the church in 
which he had so long preached. The inscription on 
this stone wai? written by his friend Dr. Finley, in 
dassic Latin. When this church was remodelled, 
his remains and those of Dr. Finley also, were re- 
moved to the public cemetery of the Second Presby- 
terian Church, between Mulberry and Cherry streets. 
After Mr. Tennent's death, there was^an eulogy 
on his character, published in Philadelphia, by a 
young gentleman of that city, from which some ex- 
tracts will be made, as serving to show in what es- 
timation he was held in the place where he spen^ 
more than twenty years of his life. We expect, in 
discourses of this kind, some exaggeration ; but as 
this eulogy was addressed to the public, who were 
well acquainted with the person eulogized, it must 
have a general foundation of truth ; and the reader, 
by making an allowance for the strong expressions 
of the partial writer, may form a pretty correct opin- 
ion of the true character of the person celebrated. 

After an introduction, this writer goes on to say : 
'* He whose memory these pages are intended to cel- 
ebrate, was distinguished in a very remarkable man- 
ner, by his eminent endowments of mind ; a love of 
learning that nothing could abate ; an intense appli- 



THB BSV. OILBEHT TBNNKNT. 85 

cation, that no recreations could divert. And his 
great proficiency in the several branches of literature, 
while the powers of his soul were but just opening, 
raised the expectations of all that knew him. And 
what recommended these amiable accomplishments 
was, that they were early adorned with the charms 
of Divine grace. It was his study to remember his 
Creator in the days of his youth. And as he often 
inculcated the necessity and manifold advantages of 
early piety, so he might with propriety have added 
his own experience of them, as an inducement to the 
votaries of gayety and pleasure to embrace the pleas- 
ures that flow from true religion. He had no soon- 
er experienced what it was to pass from death imto 
life, and from a state of nature to a state of grace, 
than he formed a resolution of spending his time, his 
talents, and his all, in the service of God, in his 
sanctuary; previously to the accomplishment of 
which design, he devoted himself wholly to the 
study of the sacred scriptures, and his own heart, 
and not merely to a dry system of speculative no- 
tions. He was too sensible of the importance of 
that arduous office, to rush into it without suitable 
preparation. He knew too well the worth of pre- 
cious inmiortal souls to recommend any other foun- 
dation for the hopes of their future happiness, than 
what he was well assured would stand the test of 
beating rains and descending showers The 

manner in which he usually preached, and the indif- 

F3 



86 THS REV. aiLBERT TENNENT. 

ference with which he treated all secular advantages^ 
abundantly evinced, that neither a love of popular 
applause, nor a desire of promoting his own afflu- 
ence and ease, could have been any inducement to 
him to assume the holy function. But, on the con- 
trary, an ardent love to God, and a desire to advance 
his glory in the world, by proclaiming pardon and 
reconciliation through the atoning blood of his cm- 
.cified Son, were his only motives for the choice of 
that noble, disinterested profession. As he entered 
into the ministry in the prime of life, when his 
bodily constitution was in its full vigour, he devoted 
his juvenile strength and ardour of mind to the ser- 
vice of the church, at a time when their exertion was 
of the greatest importance. Few that knew Mr. 
Tennent in that season of life, can speak of him 
without some pleasing emotions. The good old 
puritan spirit that had for a series of yeairs been 
asleep, seemed to revive and blaze forth in him with 
a genuine lustre. He was, indeed, like the harbin- 
ger of his Master, < a burning and a shining light,' 
in the church. His undissejT>bled piety, his fervent 
zeal, his pungency of address, and his indefatigable 
assiduity in the performance of every ministerial 
duty, were remarkably eminent. He might truly be 
styled a * Boanerges.' As he knew the composition 
and make of the human heart; so he lUiew how to 
speak to it ; and all his discourses were aimed at the 
fountain of impurity and sin. He knew that a 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 87 

reformation that did not take its rise in the heart, 
could not be of long continuance, or pleasing in the 
sight of God ; and, therefore, he always strove to 
convince his hearers, that a thorough renovation of' 
it was necessary to salvation.'* 

" As his presence was venerable, and his voice 
commanding, so his very appearance in the pulpit, 
filled the minds of his hearers with a kind of religious 
awe. . . . The thunderings and mighty vociferations 
of Mount Sinai seemed to roar from the sacred desk? 
when he denounced the wrath of God against him that 
transgressed but once God's law, which he knew to be 
spiritual, and that nothing but a perfect obedience — 
which man in his fallen state is unable to perform — 
would satisfy its demands. Hence, he made it his 
constant practice to sound the alarm of God's curse 
abiding on the whole himian race ; and that to doom 
man to everlasting misery would be highly consis- 
tent with the mercy and justice of Jehovah. But 
while he enforced the truth of inspiration, « that in 
Adam all die,' he was no less warm in proclaiming, 
'that in Christ all shall be made alive.' And as he 
knew how to wound, so he knew how to pour the 
oil of consolation on the bleeding conscience. The 
blood of Jesus, that sacred healing balm, was his 
grand catholicon for sin-sick souls. This only was 
what he recommended as sufficient to procure ease 
to the trembling sinner ; with the love of God to 
man, in pouring so much Deity -on guilty dust — ^in 



88 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

sending his darling Son into the world, to redeem a 
race of rebql sinners, by bearin^? on the accursed 
tree, the heavy punishment due to man's enormous 
crimes, in order to translate him to the regions of 
eternal joy. 

" The beginning of his ministry was employed in 
long and tedious itinerations. And wherever he 
had a prospect of doing good, however remote the 
place might be from his friends, and however re- 
pugnant to his own. ease, he needed no other in- 
ducement, but cheerfully undertook ' the pleasing 
task. 

"Fatigues and toils from which even worldly men, 
in the prosecution of an earthly good shrink back, 
he joyfully engaged in ; and with a degree of perse- 
verance peculiar to himself, bravely overcame those 
diflSiculties, which to some minds appeared insilr- 
mountable. ... It pleased God, in a very gracious 
manner, to crown his labours with success. The 
energy of the divine Spirit accompanied his minis- 
trations. Wherever he went the kingdom of Satan 
trembled ; the desolate and solitary places bloomed 
like a rose before him; and he became the happy in- 
strument of turning many from the error of their 
ways to the living God. 

" His knowledge in divinity, in which he made 
great proficiency, was entirely derived from the 
Bible; and whatever truth it enforced as duty, he 
inculcated ; bis arguments^ for the one, and motives 




THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 89 - 

for the other, were all taken from those inspired 
pages, which he prized above all human writings, 
and valued as the charter by which he possessed the 
hope, and ere long expected the full enjoyment of a 
blessed eternity. 

« Sensible how much man is dependent upon God 
for every blessing he enjoys, and that the best way to 
keep the flame of devotion alive in his own soul, was 
to maintain a constant intercourse with heaven, he 
made prayer his chief and most delightful employ- 
ment. This was the very breath of his soul. . . . 
His manner of praying was such as evidenced it to be 
not the mere language of the passions, but a rational, 
solemn, and animated address to the Great Father 
of spirits. 

"After having laboured for many years, with much 
success, in New Brunswick, where he was settled 5 
by the advice of his brethren, he accepted an urgent 
call from the Second Presbyterian church in Phila- 
delphia, while the society was in its in&int state ; and 
continued to exercise his pastoral function there for 
upwards of twenty years, with a degree of watchful- 
ness and fidelity, scarcely to be paralleled. He con-, 
sidered himself as the shepherd of his flock, and 
made it his practice to lead them to the green pas- 
tures and living fountains of salvation, with the 
care of one that knew he must render an account at 
the last day. Nay, he considered himself the father 
of his peoplOi and as his beloved children he coun- 



^ 



90 THB REV. GILBERT TENNENTj 

selled, warned and reproved them, with all the ten- 
derness and solicitude of a father's heart. He was, 
indeed, a faithful watchman, that never failed to 
give warning of impending danger. The rich and 
the poor, the black and white had equally free ac- 
cess to his person, and ever found him ready to hear 
their complaints and solve their doubts. '' 

" What he preached in the pulpit, his life preached 
out of it. His disposition — ^naturally calm— was 
still more sweetened with that holy temper which 
the gospel of Christ inspires. A genuine serenity 
and cheerfulness dwelt upon his countenance, which 
he never failed to diffuse on all around him. He 
was charitable to the poor; kind to all men; a 
lover of all that loved the Lord Jesus, whatever 
mode of worship they professed ; and much beloved 
in all the tender endearments of domestic life, as a 
husband, a father, a master, and a friend. 

" There is nothing in this world, methinks, more 
grand or illustrious, than the old age of a man who has 
devoted his whole time,and spent his whole life in pro- 
moting the spiritual interests of his fellow creatures. 
. . . The review of his life fills his soul with a plea- 
sure, which none but such as experience it can con- 
ceive. Whilst he sees no ill-spent time to sting his con- 
science with remorse, nor feels any attachment to the 
transitory things of this world, he beholds a calm 
haven prepared for his repose, where the storms and 
billowB of affliction can reach him no more. . . . 



THB REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 91 

In this light should we contemplate Mr. Tennent. 
His soul, like the setting sun, broke through the 
clouds of infirmity. There was a dignity and 
grandeur in his old age. Wisdom bloomed upon 
his silver locks; and while the cold hand of time 
snowed upon his locks, his heart glowed with re- 
doubled love for the church. . . . Nor more dread- 
ful to the man of ease in his possessions is the ap- 
proach of the king of terrors, than he was welcome to 
this eminent servant of God. Every, symptom of his 
approaching dissolution, instead of filling his soul 
with alarms, rather filled him with comfort, and 
made him impatiently long for the kind stroke that 
should dismiss his soul.' After having borne a long 
and tedious illness with the most invincible fortitude 
and resignation, the friendly messenger at last, 
came with the joyful summons. . . . And with full 
confidence in the merits and atonement of his dear 
Redeemer, he gently fell asleep. 

The following is the most accurate list of Mr. 
Gilbert Tennent's works, which the author has been 
able to collect. 

1. In the year 1735, Mn Tennent published his 
« Solemn Warning to the secuiie World, From 
the God of Terrible Majesty; or, the Presumptuous 
Sifmer Detected, his Pleas Considered, and his Doom 
Displayed.'' This volume was printed in Boston. 

2, Sermons on Sacramental Occasions, by 
Divers Jiuthors,' A small duodecimo volume.— 



^ 



92 TH« REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

The sermons are all by Mr. Gilbert Tennent^ except 
two ; one, by his brother William, and the other, by 
the Rev. Samuel Blair. It would seem, that at the 
time when this volume was published^- no. books 
were printed either in New York or Philadelphia ; 
for the manuscript was sent to Boston, and printed 
there, in the year 1739. 

3. Two sermons of the Rev. John Tennent, with 
a Preface, containing a memoir of him, to which is 
added, " An Expostulatory Address to Saints and 
Sinners," by Gilbert Tennent. Printed in Boston, in 

. the year 1735. 

4. His next Publication was, probably, his famous 
a Nottingham Sermon," in which he lashed his 
brethren of the synod so severely, that it had much 
influence in leading to the separation which soon 
followed. 

5. " The Examiner Examined" was written in 
the year 1740, and is an answer to a pamphlet writ- 
ten against him, by an anonymous author, after his 
visit to New England. 

6. "The Pacificator," a large pamphlet, .the 
object of which was to bring about a re-union of the 
dissentient parties, in the Presbyterian church. 

7. In the year 1744, Mr. G. Tennent published, in 
Philadelphia, a small quarto volume of sermons, 
twenty-three in number. These Discourses appear 
to have been the commencement of a body of Divin- 
ity. Th^ subjects treated /ai;e, « The Chief End of 



THS BEV. GILBERT TENNENT. 93 

Man — The Divine Authority of the Sacred Scrip- 
tures — The Being and Attributes of God, and the 
Trinity." Preached in Philadelphia, in 1743. 

8. In the year 1749, Mr. G. Tennent, publiebed 
two sermons, preached at Burlington, N. J., On a 
day of Public Fasting. They are dedicated to Gov- 
ernor Belcher. The Texts are Matt. vi. 16, 17, 18, 
and Jonah iii. 8. 

9. In 1758, Mr. Gilbert Tennent published a 
volume of sermons, entitled, <^ Sermons on Impob- 
TANT Subjects, Adapted to the Pebilous State 
OP THE British Nation," Lately Preached in Phil- 
adelphia, by Gilbert Tennent, A. M. 

We do not know where Mr. Tennent obtained his / 
degree of Master of Arts. It would be natural to ^ 
suppose that it was conferred by the Trustees of 
the College of New Jersey ; but his name is not on 
the catalogue ; while we find there the names of 
some of his contemporaries, who received honourary 
degrees. As he was a Trustee of New Jersey college, 
it is probable that this honour was conferred on him 
by Yale or Harvard, or possibly, from one of the 
Scotch universities. 

10. In 1756, Mr. Tennent published a Funeral 
sermon, occasioned by the death of Captain William 
Grant. Preached in Philadelphia. 

1 1. The last Publication of Mr. G. Tennent, was 

^< A SXBMON ON THE NatUBE OF RsLIOIOUS ZeAL 

Its xxoelubnct and Ixpobtavcx opxirxB Aim 



94 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

URGED.'^ Preached in Philadelphia, Jan. 27, 1760* 
The style of these several publications is very di- 
verse ; as they were composed at different periods 
of Mr. Tennent's life, on different subjects, and 
in different circumstances. In all his writings per- 
spicuity and force are manifest characteristics of his 
style ; biit there is a great want pf simplicity and 
ease. Throughout the whole, the doctrines incul- 
cated are rigidly orthodox, according to the West- 
minster Confession. In his didactic discourses, he 
shows himself not only to be a profound thinker, 
but a well-read theologian ; and often quotes the 
standard I^atin writers of systematic theology, as one 
who had been accustomed to read them. While he 
manifests an ardent zeal in defence of the < doctrines 
of grace,' he never loses sight of the importance of 
experimental religion and practical godlmess. In 
conformity with the custom of the age, he too much 
aboimds in divisions and subdivisions; and is too 
fond of technical words and phrases. His practical 
discourses, however, are. often ^oth pungent and 
searching. 

It is somewJiat remarkable, that while so many 
old authors have been republished, in our day, none 
of the writings of Gilbert Tennent have ever passed 
to a syscond edition. The author is disposed to make 
a selection from his works, if he had encouragement, 
that we might not only have a sketch of the lives of 
Am ditrines of the Log College, but a specimen of 
theology. 



•^ 



CHAPTER VI. 

Mr. Gilbert Tennent's letter to the Rey. Mr. Prince, eontainiog many 
interesting particulars of the state of religion in New Brunswick^ 
and Ticinity ; and also in Philadelphia, and various other placet. 

The preceding memoir of Gilbert Tennent'was 
drawn up before the writer met with the following 
letter from his own pen, addressed to the Rev. Mr. 
Prince of Boston, and published in his << Christian 
History," dated^August 24, 1744, soon after Mr. 
Tennent had removed to Philadelphia. This letter 
sheds a satisfactory light on several parts of Mr- 

« 

Tennent's life, which all other accounts leave inob-.. 
scurity, as for example, the success of his ministry in 
New Brunswick, while the pastor of that church ; 
and also in Staten Island, where he had a congrega- 
tion, to which his labours appear to have been 
blessed. It is a sad evidence of the retrograde 
march of Presbyterianismsin some parts of our coun- 
try, that after the lapse of a complete century, there 
is not a vestige of a Presbyterian congregation in 
that Island ; nor has there been, within the mem-' 
ory of any person living. 

Such parts of Mr. Tennent's letter as have no 
bearing on his own life, have been omitted, but we 
have retained much the larger part, and in his own 
language. 



96 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

Extracts from the Letter of the Rev. Gilbert Ten- 
nent, to the Rev. Mr. Prince, of Boston, published 
in the Christian History, of the latter. 

" I am glad it pleased the sovereign God to make 
my poor labours of any service among you. I de- 
sire ever to bless his name for that undeserved mercy. 
I am thankful for the Christian History, and well 
pleased with the design and management of the 
work. I hope it will be a means in God's hand of 
conveying with honour to posterity, a memorial 
of the late blessed revival of religion, which has 
been so virulently opposed by many." Here he in- 
troduces a long extract from a public attestation to 
the reality of the work of grace, in the late revival, 
•which was prefixed to Mr. Dickinson's « Display 
OP Special Grace." This public testimony was 
subscribed by Gilbert Tennent, William Tennent, 
Samuel Blair, Richard Treat, Samuel Finley, and 
John Blair. Some parts of this paper, will not be 
out of place here, as, no doubt, it was drawn up by 
Gilbert Tennent. 

" If any should inquire, what we mean by the work 
of Grod, we think the judicious author of the follow- 
ing dialogue (Mr. Dickinson) has given a plain and 
pertinent answer, to which we give our approbation. 
* A work of conviction and conversion spread not 
long since in many places of these provinces, with 
such power and progress, as even silenced for a time 
the most malignant opposers. They were either 




THB REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 97 

alraid or ashamed openly to contradict such astonish- 
ing displays of the divine Almightiness, in alarming 
multitudes of secure sinners out of their fatal stupor, 
and exciting in them the utmost solicitude about the 
everlasting cencems of their souls ; many of whom 
gave us a rational and scriptural account of their 
distress, and afterwards of their deliverance from it, 
agreeable to the method of the gospel of Christ 
Their comforts as well as their sorrows appeared, 
by all the evidence we can have of such things, to 

be agreeable to scripture and reason 

<^It is shocking to think that any should dare to 
oppose a work attended with such commanding evi- 
dence as has been among us. We would beseech 
all such solemnly to answer the following para- 
graph of the Rev. Mr. Robe, minister of the gospel 
in Kilsyth, Scotland, in -his preface to his " Narra- 
tive," which is as follows : < I seriously beg of any 
who are prejudiced against this dispensation of God's 
extraordinary grace, and look upon it as a delusion, 
that they will show themselves so charitable, as to 
direct me and other ministers, what we shall answer i 
distressed persons of all ages, who come to us crying 
bitterly that they are undone, because of unbelief 
and other sins — «What shall we do to be saved ?' J 
And as a young girl about twelve, who had been in 
distress for some time called upon me in the house 
where I was, and asked me with great sedateness, 
< What Aiall I do to get Christ ?' shall we tell them 



98 THE BEV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

that they are not Christless^ and are not unconverted, 
when we evidently see many of them to be such? 
Shall we tell them that their fears of the wrath of Grod 
is all but delusion, and that it is no such a dreadful 
thing that they need to be much afraid of it ? Shall 
we tell persons lamenting their cursing and swearing, 
Sabbath-breaking, and other immoralities, that it is 
the devil that now makes them see these evils to be 
offensive to God, and destructive to their souls? 
Shall we tell them, who, under the greatest uneasi- 
ness, inquire of us what they shall do to get an 
interest and faith in Jesus Christ, that Satan is de- 
luding them, when they have, or show any concern 
this way ? In fine, shall we pray, and recommend 
it to them to pray to God, to deliver them from such 
delusions ? It would be worse than devilish to treat 
the Lord's sighing and groaning prisoners at this 
rate ; and yet such treatment is a natural conse- 
quence of reckoning this the work of the devil, and 
a delusion.' 
\ " I may add, that both our presbyteries of New 
Brunswick and Newcastle, have, in their declara- 
tion of May 26, 1743, printed at Philadelphia, 
manifested their cordial concurrence with the pro- 
testation of the presbytery of New York, in which 
are these words, viz. : * We protest against all those 
passages which. have been published in these parts 
which seem to reflect on the work of divine power 
^^21^ grace, which has been carrying on in so wonder 



THE REV. 6ILBEBT TENNENT. 99 

fal a manner in many of our congregations; and 
declare to all the world, that we look upon it to be 
the indispensable duty of all our ministers, to en- 
courage that glorious work, with their most faithful 
and diligent endeavours.' " . 

This public protestation was signed by Jona- 
than Dickinson, Ebenezer Pemb^rton, Daniel El- 
more, Silas Leonard, John Pierson, Simon Horton, 
and Azariah Horton, ministers ; and by Nathaniel 
Hazard, Timothy Whitehead, and David Whitehead, 
elders. Now, the concurrence of the presbyteries of 
New Brunswick, and Newcastle, with the aforesaid 
Protest, is expressed in the following words, in the 
5th page of their Declaration : " With this Protesta- 
tion of our reverend and other brethren, we heartily 
agree." And in the 13th page, they declare, "that 
they could not come into a state of settled constant 
communion with such as had protested against them, 
until they received competent satisfaction ; especially 
concerning their oppositioft to, and reflections upon 
the work of God's grace, arid success of the gospel in 
the land. 

" I trust I may say to the glory of God's grace, 
that it pleased the most high God to let me see con- 
siderable success, in the places where I laboured sta- 
tedly, many years before I came hither. 

" The labours of the Rev. Mr. Frelinghuysen, a> 

Dutch Galvuiist minister, were much blessed to the; 

1 
people of New Brunswick and places adjacent ; ea- 

G 



100 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

pecially^ about the time of his coming among them^ 
whidi was about twenty-four years ago. 

^ When I came there, which was about seven 
years after, I had the pleasure of .^eing much of the 
fruits of his ministry : divers of his hearers with 
whom I had the opportunity of conversing, appeared 
to be converted persons, by their soundness in prin- 
ciple, Christian experience, and pious practice ; and 
these persons declared, that the ministrations of the 
aforesaid gentleman were the means thereof. This, 
together with a kind letter which he sent, me, re- 
specting the dividing the word aright, and giving to 
every man his portion in due season, through the 
divine blessing, excited me to greater earnestness in 
ministerial labours. I began to be very much dis- 
tressed about my want of success ; for I know not 
for half a year or more after I came to New Bruns- 
wick, that any one was converted by my labours ; 
although several persons were at times affected tran- 
siently. <* It pleased God, about that time, to af9ict 
me with sickness, by which I had affecting views of 
eternity. I was then exceedingly grieved I had 
done so little for Gkxi, and was very desirous to live 
one half year more, if it was his will, that I might 
stand upon the stage of the world, as it were, and 
plead more faithfully for his cause, and take more 
earnest pains for the salvation of souls. The secure 
state of the worid appeared to me in a very affect- 
ing light ;, and one thing among others^ pressed me 



THX EEV. GILBERT TENNENT. 101 

sore^ that I had spent so much time in conversing 
about trifles, which might have been spent in 
examining people's states, and persuading them to 
turn unto God. I therefore prayed to God that he 
would be pleased to give me one half year moi 
and I was determined to promote his kingdom wil 
all my might, and at all adventures. This petitioi 
God was pleased to grant manifold, and to enabl^ 
me to keep my resolution in some measure. 

"After I was raised up to health, I examined many k 
about the grounds of their hope of salvation, which/ ^ 
I found in most to be nothing but as the sand. With/ 
such I was enabled to deal faithfully and earnestly, 
in warning them of their danger, and urging them 
to seek converting grace. By this method many 
were awakened out of their security, and of these,! 
divers were to all appearance effectually converted ; ; ' 
but some that I spoke plainly to were prejudiced. 
And here I would have it observed, that as soon 
as an effectual door was opened, I found many 
adversaries, and my character was covered with un- 
just reproaches, which through divine goodness did 
not discourage me in my work. I did then preach 
much on original sin, repentance, the nature and 
necessity of conversion, in a close, examinatory, and 
distinguishing way : labouring, in the mean time, to 
fioimd the trumpet of God's judgments, and alarm 
the secure by the terrors of the Lord, as well as to 

affect them with other topics of persuasion : which 

G2 



'^ 



10* THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

method was sealed by the Holy Spirit, in the 
conviction and conversion of a considerable number 
of persons, at various times, and in different places, 
in that part of the country, as appeared by their ac- 
quaintance with experimental religion, and good 
conversation; 

"I may further observe, that frequently at sacra- 
mental seasons, in New Brunswick, there have been 
signal displays of the divine power and presence* 
Divers have been convinced of sin, by the sermons 
there preached, some converted, and many much 
affected with the love of God in Jesus Christ. 
the sweet meltings that I have seen on such occa- 
sions, among many ! New Brunswick did then look 
like a field the Lord had blessed. It was like a lit- 
tle Jerusalem, to which the scattered tribes with 
eager haste repaired at sacramental solemnities ; and 
there they fed on the fatness of God's house, and 
drank of the rivers of his pleasures. But alas ! the 
scene is now altered ! 

" While I lived in the place aforesaid, I do not re- 
member, that there was any great ingathering of 
souls at any one time ; but, through mercy, there 
^were frequently gleanings of a few here and there, 
which in the whole were a considerable number. 
But having never taken a written account of them I 
cannot offer any precise conjecture at their number, 
and shall therefore, leave it to be determined at the 
judjgment-day. But ^t Staten Island, one of the 



THE AEV. GILBERT TENNENT. 103 

places where I statedly laboured, there was, about 
fifteen or sixteen years agone,a more general concern 
about the affairs of salvation, which hopefully issued 
in the conversion of a pretty many. Once in the 
tinvB of a sermon from Amos vi. 7, before which the 
people were generally secure, the Spirit of Grod was 
suddenly poured out on the assembly ; the people 
were generally affected about the state of their souls ; 
and some to that degree, that they fell upon their 
knees in the time of the sermon, in order to pray to 
God for pardoning mercy. Many went weeping 
home from the sermon ; and then the general inqui- 
ry was, ^what must I do to be saved }' I may fur- 
ther observe, that some few of those that I hope 
were converted in the places aforesaid, were com- 
pelled to cry out in the public assembly, both under 
the impressions of terror and love. During the late 
revival of religion, New Brunswick felt some drops 
of the spreading rain, but no general shower. : ' 

" As to Philadelphia, where by the Providence of 
God, I now labour statedly, many have been hope- 
fully converted here during the display of God's 
grace in this land. The Rev. Mr. Whitefield was 
the instrument God was pleased to improvCy princi- 
pally in the awakening and conversion of sinners 
here ; yet the labours of others have been attended 
with some success. This town, by all that I can 
learn was in deep security, generally, before Mr. 

Whitefield came among them, but his preaching was 

G3 



104 THX RXV. OtLBSET T£NN£NT. 

80 blessed, that a great number were brought under 
a religious concern about the salvation of their souls ; 
multitudes were " inquiring the way to Zion with 
their faces thitherward^ weeping as they went.** 
Some years since, there were so many under soul- 
sickness in this place, that my feet were pained in 
walking from place to place to see them. And there 
was then such an eagerness to hear religious dis- 
course, that when they saw me going to a house 
/they would flock to it ; and under what was spoken, * 
they were sometimes generally, and to all appear- 
ance, deeply aflGected. And thus it was in more 
public assemblies; there were sometimes, general 
meltings. And though several persons have lost 
their religious impressions, and " returned with the 
dog to his vomit ;** and some others have fallen into 
erroneous sentiments, yet God has preserved inany 
from those evils, who give a rational and scriptural 
account of their conversion, and crown the same by 
their practice. Neither is it strange that some should 
be carried aWay here, by the fair speeches and run- 
ning craftiness of those that lie in wait to deceive ; 
^ seeing that the greater part in this place, have never 
had the advantage of a strict religious education, 
and, therefore, were never wellfixed in the thorough 
knowledge of a consistent system of principles. 
None that I know of in this town, that were well 
acquainted with the doctrines of religion in tboir 
eonnezion^ and established in them, have been 



THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 105 

turned aside by the tempests and tricks of errorists. 

« The last Sabbath in May last, I gave the sacp^ 
ment of the Lord's Supper, the first time that it iwts 
dispensed to the society to which I belong — con- 
sidered as a society. The number of communicants 
was above one hundred and forty. Those persons 
I examiined about their gracious state, as well as 
doctrinal knowledge ; and upon trial, almost all of 
them gave scriptural and satisfactory account of the 
ground of their hope. Now the chief of these, ac- 
cording to their own account, have been brought to 
Christ during the late revival of religion. And 
there are divers other peflrsons, who in a judgment 
of charity, have got saving benefit during the Istte 
marvellous manifestation of God's grace, who do 
not join in communion with us. 

<* Though there is in many, a considerable decay 
as to their liveliness and affeclionateness in religion, 
yet through divine goodness, they grow more hum- 
ble and merciful ; and it is evident by their conver- 
sation, that the general bent of their heart is for God. 
Since I have come tiere, my labours seem to be 
chiefly serviceable to instruct, and establish the great \ 
truths of religion, and to comfort pious people. 
There have been but a few instances of conviction 
and conversion in this town that I know of. 

"In some places of this province, some years ago, 
particularly in" Nottingham, Fag's Manor, White- 
day Creek, Neshaminy, and elsewhere, there have 



■\ 



106 THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT. 

been such general lamentations in the time of preach- 
ing, that the speaker's voice has been almost 
drowned with. the cries of the distressed, even after 
they have been entreated again and again to restrain 
themselves ; yea, and sometimes when the speaker 
discoursed in a gospel strain, divers persons in this 
province have fallen down to the ground in the time 
of sermon, as though they were stabbed with a 
sword. And w:hat though some have lost their im- 
pressions, and relapsed into their sordid impieties, 
this is no more than what the scriptures inform us 
did happen in the apostolic times ; yet it is w^ll 
known that many of them — ^so, far as we are capa- 
ble of judging by men's speech and practice — haye 
been brought to a sound conversion. 

<< I think it needless here to offer a reply to the 
cavils of opposers, which are as numerous as in- 
sidious and impertinent. But though I must say, 
that mine eyes and ears have seen and heard so 
much of the appearance and fruits of the late revival 
"of religion, that I must reject religion altogether, 
and turn infidel, if I should dispute and oppose the 
same. May it please the gracious God to pardon 
those unhappy men who have set themselves in 
opposition to the work of the most high God, and 
painted it in black and odious colours, and let them 
see thqir sin and danger before it be too late. 

<« Dear Sir, I did not think when I'began to write, 
to. offer any more than our Prefatory Attesta- 



THX BEV. GILBERT TSNNENT. 107 

TioN I but being urged to mention something of what 
I have seen and heard, and finding a pleasure in the 
subject, I have added, with the strictest regard to^ 
truth and soberness, these few hasty hints, concern- 
ing some matters of feet, which I know to be true ; 
and shall leave to your discretion to do with them, 
as you shall see meet. 

" I am Sir, Yours, &c., 

"Gilbert Tennent. 
"August 24, 1744/ 



CHAPTER VII- 

THE J>IEW LONDON SCHOOL. 

Synod of Philadelphia establiah a School— Locate^ at New London 
—Mr. Alison the first Teacher— Negociation with Yale College^ 
Letter to President Clapp — Synod of N. Y, form the enterprise of 
eitablishing a college — ^Log College the germ of New JerMj 
College. 

As we have given a brief history of the Log Col- 
lege, the first school erected within the bounds of the 
Presbyterian church in this country, it will not be 
considered an unsuitable digression, to say some- 
thing of another school, which was established by 
the synod of Philadelphia, after the rupture, which 
has been described, took place. The want of an 
institution of classical arid scientific education was 
deeply felt ; but what course to pursue, was a prob- 
lem not easy to be solved. The Log College had 
been in successful operation about fifteen years 
before the exclusion of the New Brunswick presby- 
tery ; but it appears, from the statement of the last 
chapter, that it had never given general satisfaction 
to the synod. And now this school and all its friends 
and supporters were separated from the synod ; so 
that the need of a school, where candidates might 



*(*■■ 



THfi NEW LONDON SCHOOL. 109 

obta' n, at least, the ground- work of a liberal educa- 
tion, was felt to be urgent. This matter, therefore, 
became the subject of frequent deliberation and 
mutual consultation among the ministers. A public 
meeting was at length agreed upon, and fhe biisi- 
ness was entered upon in good earnest. The pres- 
byteries of Philadelphia, Newcastle, and Donegal, 
appointed certain of their members to meet in the 
Great Valley, Nov. 16, 1743, to take into considera-» 
tion the subject of a plan for educating young men 
for the holy ministry. After conference and delibe- 
ration, they resolved, that this business could not be 
properly managed unless the syaod would undertake 
it ; they, therefore, referred the further consideration 
of the subject to that reverend body 5 but agreed 
that in the mean time, a school should be opened for 
the education of youth. When this matter> the en- 
suing year, was brought before the synod, they 
pidopted the plan as their own, and took the school 
under their care ; and agreed upon the following 
plan for carrying it on. 

1. That there be a school kept open where all per- 
sons who please, may send their children, and be 
there instructed gratis in the languages, philosophy, 
and divinity. 

2. In order to carry on this design, it is agreed, 
that every congregation under our care, be applied 
to for yearly contributions, more or less, as they can 
afford, and as God may incline them to contribute, 



110 THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL. 

until Providence open the door for our supporting 
the school in some other way. 

3. That if any thing can be spared besides what 
is required to support a master and tutor, that it be 
employed by the trustees, in buying books and 
other necessaries for said school, and for the benefit 
of it, as the trustees shall see proper. 

"And Mr. Alison is chosen master of said school, 
and has the privilege of choosing an usher, under 
him, to assist him ; and the said Mr. Alison is ex- 
empted from all public business, save only attending 
church judicatories, and what concerns his particular 
pastoral charge. And the synod agree to allow Mr. 
Alison twenty pounds per annum, and the usher 
fifteen pounds." They then proceeded to appoint 
from their own body, trustees for the management 
of the affairs of the school. To these trustees it 
belonged, to visit the school, and direct the whole 
course of instruction, and to report to the synod the 
condition of the school. (See Records of the Pres- 
byterian Church, p. 174.) 

From what is here stated it appears, that Mr. Ali- 
son was the pastor of a church, and consequently 
the school was situated in his own vicinity. Where 
he received his education is not known to the writer, 
but it seems probable that he came over a proba- 
tioner ; for we have an account of his ordination in 
the records referred to above, but no account of his 
Doubtless he stood very high as a scholar 






THK NEW LONDON SCHOOL. Ill 

in the opinion of the synod ; and from the tradi- 
tion which has coma down respecting him^ he was 
a very accomplished man. The estimation in which. 
he was held as a scholar may be also inferred from 
the fact, that he was invited to take charge of an 
academy, instituted in Philadelphia, over which he 
presided for many years. 

The l^nod of Philadelphia had now a school un- 
der their own care, and an able teacher ; but as they 
had manifested so great a reluctance to receive the 
pupils of Mr. Tennent's school, without a better ed- 
ucation than could be afforded by a grammar-school, 
they could not for consistency's sake, be satisfied 
with the course of instruction in their own school, 
where there were no more professors than in the 
Log College. They, therefore, thought of a plan of 
sending their young men, for a short period, to Yale 
College, to receive a diploma, if they could make an 
arrangement with the faculty and trustees of the col- 
lege, that would suit them. Messrs. Andrews and 
Cross were appointed to write a letter to the presi- 
dent and corporation of the aforesaid college. This 
letter is not on record ; neither is President Clapp's 
antwer. But on receiving his letter, they appointed 
a lai^e committee to prepare a letter in answer, 
which is preserved in the Records of the Church 
(pp. 185, 186, 187.) This letter has been several 
limes referred to, and is an important document to 
cast light on the aflhirt of the church, at that time, 



lid THS NEW LONDOIC SCHOOL. 

and before the schism. Several things stated as facts, 
in this narrative, depend for their authority, on thisr 
letter. It will be proper, therefore, to lay a consid- 
erable part of it before the reader. It serves to 
show what views the synod entertained of the Log 
College ; and what steps they had taken to establish 
a school under the superintendence of the synod. 
As we have neither the letter written by the synod 
to President Clapp, nor his answer, the precise na- 
ture of the application made, camiot now be ascer- 
tained, but from the reply to President Clapp's letter, 
which is on record, we may learn, generally, what 
the request or proposal was, which they made. In 
this letter, dated May 30, 1746, they express .their 
thanks to the president and fellows of Yale College, 
for considering their request and expressing a readi- 
ness to promote the interests of learning and religion 
in the Presbyterian church. It appears, however, 
that President Clapp wished for more particular in- 
formation respecting the synodical school, and also 
the present state of the synod. In answer to his 
inquiries, they say : " Some years ago our synod 
found the interest of Christ's kingdom likely to suffer 
in these parts, for want of a college for the education 
of young men. And our supplies from Europe, or 
New England, were few in proportion to the numer- 
ous vacancies in our growing settlements. Mr. Wil- 
liam Tennent set up a school among us, where some 
educated, and afterwards admitted to the min- 



p*^ 



k.' 



THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL. 113 

istry, without sufficient qualifications, as was 
judged by many of the synod. And what made 
the matter look worse, those that were educated in 
this private way^ denied the usefulness of some 
parts of learning that we thought very necessary. 
It was therefore agreed to try to institute a<;ollege, 
and apply to our friends in Britain, Ireland, and New 
England, to assist us. We wrote to the Association 
of Boston on this head, and had a very favourable 
answer. But when we were thus projecting our 
plan, and appointing commissioners to Britain, &c., 
to promote the thing, the war with Spain was 
proclaimed, which put a stop to oiu: proceedings then. 
The synod then came to a public agreement to take 
all private schools where young men were educated 
for the ministry, so far under their care, as to appoint 
a committee of our synod to examine all such as had 
not obtained degrees in the European or New Eng- 
land colleges, and give them certificates, if they were 
found qualified, which was to serve our presbyteries, 
instead of a college diploma, till better provision 
could be made. Mr. Gilbert Tennent cried out that 
this was to prevent his father's school from training 
gracious men for the ministry ; and he, and some of 
his adherents, protested against it, and counteracted 
this our public agreement; admitting men to ,the 
ministry, which were judged unfit for that office; 
which course they persisted in, though admonished 
and reproved by qs, for such imwarrantable pro- 



114 THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL. 

ceedings. While these debates subsisted, Mr. White- 
field came into the country, whom they drew into 
their party, to encourage divisions. And they and 
he, have been the sad instruments of dividing our 
churches. And by his interest, Mr. Gilbert Tennent 
grew hardy enough to tell our synod he would op- 
pose their design of getting assistance to erect a col- 
lege, wherever we ishould make application, and 
would maintain young men at his father's school, in 
opposition to us. This, with his and his adherents 
divisive practices, obliged the synod to exclude him 
and others of his stamp, from their communion. In 
this situation our affairs grew worse ; for our vacan- 
cies were numerous, and we found it hard, in such. 
troubles, to engage gentlemen from New England or 
Europe to come among us, such as our best friends 
in those places could recommend as steadfast in the 
faith, and men of parts and education. Upon this, 
\ the synod erected a school in 1744. It was agreed, 
that the said school should be opened under the in- 
spection of the synod, where the languages, philoso- 
phy, and divinity, should be taught, gratis, to all that 
should comply with the regulations of the school, be- 
ing persons of good character and behaviour. They 
appointed a master and a tutor for this business, who 
were to be paid by such contributions as the S3rnod 
could obtain for this purpose ; and agreed from year 
to year, to appoint trustees, to meet, twice a year, to 
inspect the master's diligence and method of teach- 



THE NSW LONDON SCHOOL. 115 

ing ; and direct what authors are chiefly to be read 
in the several branches of learning ; to examine the 
scholars as to their proficiency and good conduct ; 
and ajpply the money procured to such uses as they 
judge proper ; and who order all affairs relating to 
the school. And the trustees are yearly to be ac- 
countable to the synod, and to make report of their 
proceedings, and state of the schooL And it is 
agreed, that after the said scholars pass the course of 
study prescribed them, they shall be publicly exam* 
ined by the said trustees, and such ministers as the 
synod shall think fit to appoint." 

We are not informed that this negotiation with 
the president of Yale College, resulted in anything 
practicaL It does not appear that the synod ever 
sent any of their young men to Yale College, td 
•finish their education. Indeed, the necessity for sucti 
a measure, soon passed away, as the College of 
New Jersey, in a short time after this, was instituted, 
and rapidly rose into credit And Dr. Alison, the 
principal of their school at New London, in Dela- 
ware, was invited to Philadelphia, to take charge of | 
an academy which a number of gentlemen had erect- 
ed in that dty. And it was not long before this acad- 
emy was constituted a college, in which Dr. Ali- 
son was appointed the vice-provost, and professor of 
Moral Philosophy. To this institution the young 
men belonging to the synod of Philadelphia, di- 
rected their attention, and here they commonly 



116 THS NfiW LONDON SCHOOL. 

finished their education. But after the union of 
the two synods^ in 1758, candidates from all the 
presbyteries were accustomed to resort to New 
Jersey college; especially, after Dr. Witherspoon 
becanie the president. 

Mr. Alison's departure from the synod's school at 
New London, seems to have been its death-blow. 
From the Records of the synod of Philadelphia, it 
appears, that Dr. Alison relinquished his station with- 
out receiving the approbation, either of the presby- 
tery of Newcastle, of which he was a member, or 
of the synod. His course was viewed as irregular, 
by the synod ; but they were well satisfied with the 
• thing itself; and when they met, a reference from 
the presbytery of Newcastle was laid before them^ 
relative to this matter, when the following minute 
was adopted, and placed on record, viz.: "The 
synod having deliberately considered the affair of 
Mr. Alison's removal to Philadelphia, referred to 
them by the presbytery of Newcastle, judge, that 
the method he used is contrary to the Presbyterian 
plan. Yet, considering the circumstances which 
urged him to take the method he used, were very 
pressing ; and that it was indeed almost impractica- 
ble to him to apply for the consent of presbytery or 
synod, in the orderly way ; and further, being per- 
suaded that Mr. Alison's being employed in such a 
station in the academy, has a favourable aspect in 
several respects, and a very probable tendency not 



THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL. 117 

only to promote the good of the public, but also of 
the church, as he may be serviceable to the interests 
thereof, in teaching philosophy and divinity, as far 
as his obligations to the academy will permit ; we 
judge that his proceedings in said affair, are in a 
great measure excusable. Withal, the synod ad* 
vises, that for tlie future, its members be very cau- 
tious, and guard agahist such proceedings as are 
contrary to our known and approved methods, in 
such cases.'' 

As we are not aware, that any memoir of Dr. 
Francis Alison has been published ; and as he was 
one of the most accomplished scholars, who has 
adorned the Presbyterian Church, in these United 
States, it seems desirable to preserve his memory 
from utter oblivion, by giving a large extract from 
the funeral sermon, preached on occeision of his 
death, by his friend and successor, the Rev. John 
Ewing, D. D. Dr. Alison died Nov. 29, 1777, in 
Philadelphia, where he had long resided. 

^<This discourse administers comfort and consola- 
tion uiider the loss of our pious friends and relations, 
who have died the death of the righteous, and had 
a just foundation to entertain the hope of a glorious 
immoi^tality. Whatever reasons we have to mourn 
under the loss we sustain, by being deprived of their 
counsel, their prayers, or their conversation ; yet we 
liave no reason tp be grieved on account of the ex- 
change they have made, of a world of sin and sor- 

H 






118 THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL. 

row for joys inconceivable and full of glory. They 
have fought the good fight of faith 5 they have fin- 
ished their course; they are discharged fi*om the 
Christian warfare, and are exaUed to an unfading 
crown of righteousness and glory. These consider- 
ations afford consolation to the church of God, and 
to a]l its members, when those who were stationed 
by its glorious head, as watchmen npon her walls, 
are removed by death ; and particnlarly under the 
heavy stroke which the interests of religion and 
learning this day feels in America, by the much 
lamented death of the Rev. Dr. Francis Alison. 

*« However the partialities of friendship for the 
deceased have carried funeral eulogies to a very ex- 
ceptionable and unjustifiable length, on many occa- 
sions ; yet I am perstladed, that you will readily ac- 
knowledge, that there is but little danger of an ex- 
treme of this kind in paying this tribute to the mem- 
ory of a man, whose private virtues commanded the 
esteem of all that knew him, and whose extensive 
public usefulness had erected a lasting monument 
to his praise. To be silent on this occasion, would 
argue an unpardonable insensibility to the interests 
of religion and learning, and would be an instance 
of injustice to the man, who, fot more than forty 
lyears, has supported the ministerial character with 
idignity and reputation, and to whom America is 
'greatly indebted for that diffusion of light and know- 
ledge, and that spirit of liberty and inquiry, which 



THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL. lid 

this day places many of her sons upon a level with 
those of the oldest nations of Europe. All who 
knew him acknowledge, that he was frank, open, 
and ingenuous in his natural temper ; warm and 
zealous in his friendships ; catholic and enlarged in 
his sentiments ; a friend to civil and religious Uber- 
ty; abhorring the intolerant spirit of persecution, 
bigotrjr, and superstition, together with all the arts 
of dishonesty and deceit. His humanity and com- 
passion led him to spare no pains nor trouble in re- 
lieving and assisting the poor and distressed, by his 
advice and influence, or by his own private liberali- 
ty ; and he has left behind him a lasting testimony 
of the extensive benevolence of his heart in plan- 
ning, erecting, and nursing, with constant attention 
and tenderness, the charitable scheme of the wid-{ 
o ws' FUND, by which many helpless orphans and des-^ 
titute widows have been seasonably relieved and 
supported; and will, we trust, continue to be relieved 
and supported so long as the synod of New York 
and Philadelphia shall exist. 

<< Blessed with a clear understanding, and an ex- 
tensive liberal education ; tliirstuig for knowledge, 
and indefatigable in study through the whole of 
his useful life, he acquired an unusual fund of ; 
learning and knowledge, which rendered his con- f 
versatioa remarkably instructive, and abundant- ' 
ly qualified him for the sacred work of the min- 
istry, and the painful instruction of youth in the 

H2 



120 THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL. 

college. He was truly a scribe well instructed 
into the kingdom of heaven, a workman that 
needed not to be ashamed, for he rightly divided 
the word of truth, and was peculiarly skilful in giv- 
ing to every one his portion in due season. In his 
public exhibitions, he was warm, animated, plain, 
practical, argumentative, and pathetic ; and he has 
hft a testimony in the consciences of thousands, who 
attended upon his ministry, that he was willing to 
spend and be spent to promote their salvation, and 
that he failed not to declare to them the whole coun- 
sel of God, while he endeavoured to save himself 
and those that heard him. And we have reason to 
hope, that the bountiful Redeemer, whom he served 
in his spirit, has greatly honoured him by making 
him instrumental in the salvation of many, who 
shall be the crown of his rejoicing in the day of the 
Lord. His solicitude for the interests of the Re- 
deemer's kingdom, and his desires to engage young 
men in the sacred work of the ministry, and to pro- 
mote the public happiness, by the diffusion of reli- 
gious liberty and learning through the once untutored 
wilds of America, induced him to open a public 
school in New London, about thirty-six years ago, 
at which time, there was scarcely a shadow of learn- 
ing in the middle states: and he generously instructed 
. all that came to him without fee or reward ; ac- 
counting himself amply paid by the propagation of 
that spirit of inquiry, that thirst for learning, and 



^ 



trtE NEW LONDOjf SCHOOL. 121 

those generous and public-spirited attempts to found 
and establish colleges in the states, which we now 
see* 

" Animated by a laudable spirit, and a generous 
concern for the public good, some gentlemen in this 
city erected an academy here about thirty years 
ago, and mvited him to take the instruction and 
oversight of it. They pursued the same benevolent 
design until a college was afterwards added, in 
which he was constituted vice-provost, and professor 
of moral philosophy. In this laborious employment 
he has ever since acquitted himself with distinguish- 
ed honour, fidelity, and success, to the extensive dis- 
semination of that public spirit which was so early 
raised, and so successfully cultivated, by this faithful 
and industrious servant of the public. And to the 
spreading influence of those numerous gentlemen 
who have received the first rudiments of their edu- 
cation jfrom him, we cannot but attribute, in a great 
measure, those pleasing prospects which we now 
entertain, of seeing the sacred lamp of science biim- 
ing with a brighter flame, and scattering its invigor- 
ating rays over the unexplored deserts of this exten- 
sive continent, until the whole world be involved in 
the united blaze of knowledge, liberty, and -religion. 
In short, he was ^ a burning and a shining light,' and 
one of the brightest luminaries that ever shone on 
this western world. 

<< He is now discharged from the labours of mor- 

H3 



s 



122 THE N£W LONDON SCHOOL. 

tality, and is gone, we trust, to receive the approba- 
tion of that compassionate Redeemer, whom he so 
faithfully served. For he often expressed his hopes 
in the mercy of God unto eternal life, and told me 
but a few days ago, * that he had no doubt but that 
according to the tenor of the gospel covenant, he 
would obtain the pardon of his sins through the 
great Redeemer of mankind, and enjoy an eternity 
of rest and glory in the presence of God.' It was 
this comfortable prospect that animated him to un- 
common fidelity and industry in all the duties of Kfe, 
and enabled him to bear the lingering dissolution of 
his body with patience and resignation, until he fell 
asleep in Jesus. 

« Let us, then, who survive our friends, endeavour 
to be followers of them who by faith and patience 
have inherited the promises. Let the solemnities of 
this mournful day, in which an afilicted family, the 
college in this city, the congregation in which he- so 
long laboured in word and in doctrine, the church of 
Christ, and the community at large have felt a pain- 
ful wound, teach us to live the life of the righteous, 
that we may also have hopes of the divine approba- 
tion at our death. Let those virtues and graces, 
which shone with a distinguished lustre in the pri- 
vate life and the public conduct of our departed 
friend, engage us all Who have in one way or other 
enjoyed the benefit of his pious and useful labours, 
to remember him who has spoken to us the word of 



THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL. 123 

God, and considering the issue of his conversation, 
imitate his faith. That gracious God who has told 
us that the righteous shall be had in everlasting re- 
membrance, expects that they should concur in 
accomplishing that comfortable promise, and not 
counteract it by burying their eminent virtues in an 
ungrateful oblivion. Let us so remember them as 
that we may feel their constraining efficacy to excite 
in us a laudable emulation. 

" And now, my friends, let me close the present 
address with a word to you who have long enjoyed 
his ministerial labours. You are now deprived of an 
opportunity of hearing the word of God from his 
mouth ; of listening to his warm and pathetic en- 
treaties to be reconciled to God through a Redeemer; 
of joining with him in ardent supplications to the 
throne of grace ; and of receiving any further in- 
tructions from his labours among you. We cannot 
but trust, that some of you will have reason to bless 
Grod eternally, that he has, in his wise providence, 
placed you under his ministry, while our solicitude 
for your salvation makes us fear that others of you 
may yet remain barren and unfruitful under all the 
cultivation of divine grace by the hand of this faith- 
ful watchman in Israel. You are, therefore, this day 
addressed by this mournful dispensation of divine 
providence, and called to make a solemn pause, and 
to consider what improvement you have made of 
his labours. To recollect the compassionate warn- 



134 THE N£W LONDON SCHOOL. 

ings he has given you of your danger, the warm 
expostulations he has made with you, and the strong 
cries he has often raised to the God of mercy for 
your salvation. And, if you have any grateful re- 
membrance of his pious and useful labours, let me 
exhort and entreat you to discover it by a constant 
and careful attendance upon the means of grace 
with which you are yet favoured. These are ap- 
pointed to bring you to God and to glory, to the 
spirits of just men made perfect, and all the first- 
bom sons of glory above. It is not long before you 
shall be deprived of all these golden opportunities 
to secure your eternal salvation; and let this awaken- 
ing consideration excite us so to speak, and you to 
hear the word of God, that our mutual account at 
the bar of our Judge may be joyful." 

Though the New Brunswick presbytery and its 
adherents, were in a minority at the time of their 
exclusion from the synod of Philadelphia ; yet the 
, whole of the New York presbytery were absent, on 
; that occasion, and for several years afterwards, re- 
« monstrated against the act by which these brethren, 
without any trial, were cut off from the body ; and 
when they could not prevail with the synod of Phil- 
adelphia to receive these excluded brethren again 
into their fellowship, this whole presbytery with- 
drew from the synod, and attached themselves to the 
exscinded body, and with them formed a new synod, 
^^ch took the name of. The Synod of Nsw York. 



THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL. 125 

And in a short time they considerably outnumbered 
the old synod. 

' The Log College still existed, but it was manifestly 
on the decline. The venerable foimder became in- 
firm, so that he could not perform his pastoral duties ; 
of course he was no longer capable of paying much 
attention to the school. In these circumstances, thfe 
necessity of another institution, of a higher charac- 
ter, became urgent. A variety of circumstances i 
combined to render the time auspicious for the es- 
tablishment of a college, under the patronage of the 
synod. Accordingly, by the pious zeal and ener- 
getic action of Governor Belcher, with the cordial 
co-operation of the synod of New York, a charter 
was obtained from the king of Great Britain, as am- 
ple in its privileges as could be desired. Just as the 
Log College expired, the College of New Jersey 
sprang into existence. The friends and patrons of the 
former, became the principal snpp'»rters and trustees 
of the latter. Thus it may with truth be said, that the 
Log College was the germ from which proceeded the 
flourishing College of New Jersey. While the s3mod 
of Philadelphia were labouring to establish a school 
for training young men at New London, the synod] 
of New York were exerting themselves to erect a/ 
college which should stand upon a level with any^ 
other institution in the country. Messrs. Dickinson 
and Burr, the first pastor of the Presbyterian church 
in Elizabethtown, and the last, in Newark, took the 



126 THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL. 

lead in this enterprise. Both these distinguished 
/ divines were graduates of Yale College ; but just at . 
' this time, their minds probably experienced some 
alienation from their ahna mater, on account of the 
harsh treatment which Mr. David Brainerd had re- 
ceived from the officers of that college. For he 
had been expelled merely for a harsh word, spoken 
in a private company, and overheard by a student 
who happened to be passing the door, who knew 
not to whom it referred. But the persons present, 
contrary to every rule of propriety, were forced by 
the faculty, to testify to whom reference was had. 
Mr. Brainerd, at the time of his expulsion, was a 
member of the Junior Class. Having applied to 
the presbytery of New York, he was taken under 
their care, and having manifested a strong desire 
to go and preach the gospel to the heathen in our 
land, the Commissioners appointed by the Society in 
Scotland, to employ a missionary to the Indians, 
selected Mr. Brainerd. It appears, that President 
Clapp, in his letter to the synod of Philadelphia, 
complained of the New York presbytery for receiv- 
ing under their care, persons who had left the col- 
lege, under censure; where the reference was un- 
doubtedly to David Brainerd. A strong desire 

• 

was now felt both by Mr. Brainerd and his 
friends, to get the stigma removed from his char- 
acter. And to effect this, the Commissioners who 
bad employed Mr. Brainerd, deputed the Rev. 
Mr. Burr, one of their number, to go to New Haven, 



TH£ NEW LONDON SCHOOL. 127 

at the commencement, when his class were about 
to be graduated, to endeavour to have him re- 
stored. Jonathan Edwards, also, who then be- 
came acquainted with Mr. Brainerd, and formed 
a strong attachment to him, used all his influ- 
ence to accompUsh the object; but their efforts 
were ineffectual The faculty of the college re- 
mained inflexible, or as it may more properly be 
termed, obstinate. They did offer, that if he would 
return and remain another year in college, without 
giving offence, they would then give him his degree. 
But this could not be done without disconcerting the 
whole plan of the mission for which he was engaged, 
and in which he became so eminently successful.* 
The attachment of ail the members of the New 
York synod to Mr. Brainerd was warm, and de- 
servedly so. This affair, it is very probable, quick- 
ened the zeal of these excellent men to get up a col- 
lege of their own. Some years ago, the writer heard 
the relict of the late Dr. Scott, of New Brunswick, 
say, that when sh^ was a little girl, she heard the 
Rev. Mr. Burr declare in her father^s house, in New- 
ark, <^ if it had not been for the treatment received t 
by Mr. Brainerd at Yale, New Jersey college would j 
never have been erected." How many influences ' 
are made to combine and operate, when Providence 
has the design of giving existence to an institution 
which has affected, and will still affect the happi* 
11688 of thousands ! 

* 8tt Lift of Brainerd, p. 107. 



CHAPTER VII. 

MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN TENNENT. 

Birth — Religious Exercises and Conversion — Entrance into the min. 
istry — Settlement at Freehold, Monmouth County — Great Success 
— Early Death. 

Although John Tennent was younger than his 
brother William, being the third son of the Rev. 
William Tennent, Sen. ; yet, on several accounts, it 
seems expedient to place the short memoir of him, 
before that of his elder brother. It would seem from 
all that we can learn respecting these men, that 
John was licensed to preach the gospel before Wil- 
liam. This was probably owing to the fact, that 
William Tennent, jr. suflfered much loss of time by 
severe sickness, as will hereafter appear. Or, it 
may have been the case, that William was engaged 
longer than his brother, in assisting his father in 
teaching, in the Log College. But, whatever may 
have been the case, it is certain, that the Rev. John 
Tennent was settled in the ministry, some years be- 
fore his brother ; and that the Rev. William Tennent 
was not settled as a pastor, until after the death of 
his brother John, when he became his successor in 




THE REV. JOHN TENNENT. 129 

the church at Freehold, as will appear when we 
give a memoir of him ; and it is principally on this 
accomit that we place John, foremost. 

The third son of the Rev, William Tennent, 
sen., was bom hi the county of Armagh, in Ire- 
land, in the year 1707, Nov. 12, and was therefore 
only nine years of age when his father came to 
America. The whole of his education he obtained 
under the paternal roof, and in the Log College, 
which his father had founded at Neshaminy. 

Of his conversion to God, we hare an interesting 
narrative, from the pen of his brother Gilbert, writ- 
ten after his death, and prefixed to some of his ser- 
mons, which were published in a pamphlet after his 
decease. 

" His conviction of his sin, danger, and misery, 
was the most violent in degree, of any I ever saw. 
For several days and nights together, he was made 
to cry out in the most dolorous and affecting manner, 
almost every moment The words which he used 
in his soul-agony were these, < my bloody, loat 
soul ! What shall I do ? Have mercy on me, God, 
for Christ's sake.' Sometimes, he was brought to 
the very brink of despair, and would conclude, 
« surely God would never have mercy on such ^ 
great sinner as he was.' And yet his Ufe was un- 
stained with those scandalous extravagances, by 
which too many in their youth are ensnared. His 
natural predominant sin was rash anger ; and the 



130 THE REV. JOHN TENJTEKT. 

worst I ever knew him guilty of, was, some inde- 
cent haste in this way, on account of which he was 
afterwards exceedingly humbled, and against which 
he became very watchfuL His passionateness cost 
him many a deep sob, heavy groan, and salt tear. 
After it pleased God to confer his grace upon him, 
he was remarkably altered in this particular, and 
gained in a great measure, an ascendancy aver his 
besetting sin. Whilst under conviction, his distress 
was such as to induce him to make an open confes- 
sion of his sins'^o almost all that came near him, and 
also to beg their prayers in his behalf, at a throne of 
grace. And this he did in the most earnest, and 
beseeching manner. His dolorous groans, and ve- 
hement importunity were such, as greatly to affect 
even strangers who came to see him. And he ear- 
nestly and frequently begged of God, that He would 
humble him to the dust, and beneath the dust. 

" One morning, about break of day, after great 
wrestling through the night and day preceding, he 
took occasion to speak as surprisingly as ever I 
heard any mortal, about the morning star, longing 
and praying that the blessed Jesus, the true, the 
bright, the beautiful morning Star, who brought the 
light and day into a dark world, would appear in 
mercy to his poor soul. And then, at the rising of 
the sun, he entreated that the Sun of righteousness 
might shine upon his disconsolate, dejected, wretched 
soul, with beams of mercy and salvation. His heart 




VHE REV. JOHN TENNENT. 131 

appeared to be sick, sore-sick, with panting after 
Christ ; so as to be ready to burst in pieces. I have 
through the riches of free grace been favoured with 
the sight of many a convinced sinner, but never 
did I behold any other in such a rack of acute and 
continued anguish, under the dismal apprehensions 
of impending ruin and endless misery, from the ven- 
geance of a just and holy God. 

" Perceiving such evident signs of deep conviction, 
humiliation, and earnest desire, I offered to him for 
his comfort all the most encouraging invitations and 
promises, adapted to his case ; and sometimes en- 
deavoured to persuade him that he had an interest 
in these promises, since God had wrought in him 
those conditions on which the blessings were sus- 
pended. But although this would sometimes yield 
him a temporary relief; yet in a little while he 
would break forth again with the most doleful lani- 
entations ; complaining that no promise in the book 
of God belonged to him; and denying that any 
of those conditions to which the promises were 
made, had been wrought in him. The truth is, his 
wound was so deep that none but God's arm could 
heal it. But it pleased God, after an agony almost 
uninterrupted for four days and four nights, during 
which he cried out incessantly as described above, 
that he would make his consolations as eminent and 
conspicuous as his convictions had been severe. It 
is worthy of remark, that for some time before it 



132 THE REV. JOHN TENNENT. 

pleased the Almighty to shed abroad the beams of 
his love and mercy on his soul, he was much exer- 
cised with sorrowful and piercing reflections on ac- 
count of his hypocrisy. He judged himself to be at 
pharisee and a hypocrite, for crying out as he had 
done ; and yet the sharpness of his inward pain was 
such, that he could not prevent it, therefore, he 
would have all people out of the room, that he might 
pray and mourn, alone. 

" One morning, when I went to see him, I per- 
ceived a great alteration in his countenance ; for he, 
that an hour before had looked like a condemned 
man going to be put to some cruel death, now ap- 
peared with a cheerful, gladsome countenance, and 
spoke to me in these words, < brother, the Lord 
Jesus has come in mercy to my soul. I was begging 
for a crumb of mercy with the dogs, and Christ has 
told me that he will give me a crimib.' Then he 
desired me to thank God in prayer, which I did 
more than once. He also requested me to praise 
God by singing part of a psalm, which I condplied 
with, and sang the 34th. It was, indeed, surprising 
to hear this person singing the praises of God with 
more clearness, energy, and joy, than any of the 
spectators who had crowded in, on this extraordi- 
nary and solemn occasion. And that, especially, 
when it is considered, that now it was ten o'clock 
in the forenoon, whereas, at three o'clock in the 
i^me morning, he was speechless for some minutes, 




THB REV. JOHN TENNENT. 133 

and thought by all present to be expiring^ in death. 
The consolations of God had such an influence upon 
him, that about an hour or two afterwards, he 
walked about thirty rods to see his brother William, 
who was then extremely sick, nigh unto death, and 
thought by most to be past all human hope of re- 
covery. He said, he must see his brother, to tell 
hiria what God had done for his soul, that he might 
praise God on his account before he died. And 
when he entered the room where his brother was 
lying, his joy appeared to overflow, and he ad- 
dressed him in the following words: ^0 brother, 
the Lord has looked with pity on my soul. Let the 
heavens, earth, and sea, and all that in them is, 
praise God.!' But being exposed too soon to the 
cool air, he fell into a fever, and then called in ques- 
tion that eminent discovery of God's love, which he 
had experienced. But it was not long before he 
was again comforted ; and from this time, a great 
cnange in his conversation was manifest. And 
while he experienced many seasons of the sealing 
of God's covenant love ; yet in the intervals, he was 
ofien dejected, and distressed with doubts and fears, 
respecting his own State. 

« He gave the best evidence of a change of heart 
in the conscientious and diligent performance of all 
Christian duties ; even of those most opposite to our 
corrupt nature, such as secret prayer and fasting 
He was a tender-hearted courteous relative, and of 



134 THE REV. JOHN TENNENT. 

a very sympathetic spirit. His respectful and aflfec- 
tionate treatment of his reverend and aged father 
and his kind mother, merits an honourable mention. 
His great soul disdained any thing that was mean, 
and inclined him to the most noble and generous 
actions that were within his power. \ 

" He was endowed by his Creator with a natural 
quickness of apprehension, copiousness of fancy, 
and fluency of expression, which served to qualify 
him eminently for the office of a preacher. He had 
made no contemptible progress in the learned lan- 
guages, and also in philosophical and theological 
studies ; but he particularly excelled in the polemical 
and casuistical branches of divinity. He was well 
known to be an expert disputant and casuist ; but 
that which crowned his other attainments, and made 
them appear with beauty and lustre, was, his un- 
feigned and eminent piety. 

" His attainments in the Christian graces were 
eminently conspicuous in the following particulars. 
First, his humility. He was wont to speak of him- 
self in the most abasing terms ; saying, that he 
thought himself one of the worst creatures the crea- 
tion bore. And on his dying bed he desired his re- 
lations to forbear any funeral encomiums lupon him, 
when he was gone ; for he declared with vehemence 
that he was not worthy of them. When admitted 
to preach, he would often, in his private studies, 
take the Bible in his hand, and would walk up and 




THE REV. JOHN TENNElfT. 135 

down the room weeping and mourning, that al- 
though there was a treasury of precious truth con- 
tained in that blessed book, he understood so little 
of them. A sense of the greatness of the mmisterial 
work, and of his ignorance and unfitness for it, was 
often a very oppressive burden to him. It was a 
striking evidence of the low opinion which he en- 
tertained of himself, that he never could be persua- 
ded that a holy God would bless the labours of a 
person every way so mean and so imwx>rthy as he 
felt himself to be. And when informed that certain 
persons had been convinced under his ministry, he 
could not for some time believe that the work was 
genuine, until further conviction was afibrded, by 
bright and incontestable evidences. 

" His love to ,Christ was manifest to all who had 
the opportunity of hearing his earnest and importu- 
nate prayers. Indeed, Christ and him crucified was 
the end at which he aimed, the sacred centre in 
which all the lines of his life terminated. Christ 
was the object of his supreme love, and highest ad- 
miration. 

<< He possessed also a flaming zeal for the estab- 
lishment and promotion of the Messiah's kingdom. 
It was his oft repeated petition, that God would 
make him serviceable to his church ; and that he 
would not suflfer him to Uve merely to devour the 
alms of the church, but that he would rather re- 
move him to himself, before he became useless.'' 

I 



IM TXS R£y.< JOHN TENNENT. 

When Mr. Jbhn Tennent had finidied his prepa- 
ratory studies in the Log College, he presented him- 
self to the presbytery of Philadelphia ; and after 
passing with credit the usual trials he was licensed 
to preach the gospel. 

Soon after Mr. Tennent's licensure, he visited the 
congregation of Freehold, in the county of Mon- 
mouth, New Jersey ; which was now without a 
pastor. This congregation owed its origin to some 
Scotch people who were cast on the Jersey shore ; 
the vessel Caledonia, in which they sailed, having 
been stranded on our coast. These people, being 
thus by the Providence of God cast upon this 
land, determined to take up their abode in the 
country, near to the place where they reached the 
shore ; and being Presbyterians, they were not con- 
tent to live without the ordinances of public wor- 
ship, according to the creed and usages of the church 
of Scotland. They, accordingly, set about building 
a house of worship ; which was situated a few miles 
east of the present church of Freehold ; where the 
remains of the old building, and a grave-yard, are 
yet to be seen. For some time, this congregation 
was supplied by the Rev. Joseph Morgan ; but he 
having left them early in the year 1730, they invited 
young Mr. Tennent to preach to them, as a candi- 
date. Being a young man of uncommon modesty 
and hiunility, he was very reluctant to go ; and even 
lie had oonaented to visit them, as his brother 




THE REV. JOHN TENNENT. If? 

William^ in bis letter to Mr. Priuee of Boston^ in* 
forms us, he regretted the engagement very much ; 
for it seemed to him, that they were a people whom 
God had given up for the abuse of the gospel. But 
though he went under this cloud of discouragement, 
his first labours among this people were remarkably 
blessed. On his first visit, he preached four or five 
Sabbaths, and found stirred up among the people a 
serious disposition to attend to the concerns of their 
souls, and to search the scriptures to see whether 
the things which they heard from the pulpit were 
so. And he was assisted to preach with so much 
freedom, that he told his brother William, that he 
was fully persuaded, that Christ Jesus had a large 
harvest to bring home, there ; and though they were 
a poor broken people ; yet if they called him he 
would go to them, though he should be under the 
necessity of begging his bread. On the 15th of 
Aprjl, 1730, they assembled and gave him an unan- 
imous call, which he accepted, and was ordained, 
November 19th of the same year. 

<< His labours in this congregation,'' according to 
his brother Gilbert, " were attended with three no- 
table qualities, prudence, diligence, and success,** 
Though the time was short which he was permitted 
to remain among them, yet his labours were abna- 
dant. His race was swift and vehement ; and his 
heart was so fixed on the work of God, that he could 

not be persuaded to desist from his public laboan^ 

I9 



■V 



138 THE REV. JOHN TENNENT. 

even when his body was emaciated^ and debilitated 
by a consumptive disease ; and when, in the judg- 
ment of physicians, it was prejudicial to his broken 
constitution. 

" In his public discourses, not to mention the just- 
ness of his method, the beauty of his style, and the 
fluency of his expression, by which he chained his 
not unwilling hearers to his lips, he was very awa- 
kening and terrible to unbelievers, in denouncing, 
and describing with the most vehement pathos and 
awful solemnity, the terrors of an oiFended Deity, 
the threats of a broken law, and the miseries of a 
sinful state. And this subject he insisted much 
upon, because, he with many others, found it the 
most effectual and successful means to alarm secure 
sinners. He used a close, distinguishing, and de- 
tecting method, in the application of his sermons ; 
which, with his pungent mode of expression, was 
very piercing and solemn. But, as Dr. Watts ob- 
serves of Mr. Gouge, he knew the pity of Eman- 
uePs heart, as well as the terrors of Jehovah's 
hand." He was as tender and compassionate in his 
addresses to gracious souls, as faithful to brandish 
and apply the law's lancet to the secure : and he was 
as willing to do the one as the other. But indeed he 
was very cautious of misapplying the different por- 
tions of the word to his hearers ; or of setting before 
them only a common mess, and leaving it to them to 
divide among themselves, as their fancy and humour 



TH« REV. JOHN TENNENT. IS9 

directed them 5 for he well kiiew that was the bane 
of preaching. 

"Once more ; he was a successful preacher. When 
he W8US under trials for the ministry, he was much 
exercised with doubts, difficulties, and distresses 
about his call to this great and awful trust ; but it 
pleased God to dissipate these clouds, and to afford 

ft 

to his perplexed and anxious mind abundant satis- 
faction respecting this matter, by the numerous 
seals which crowned his public labours : for as the 
famous Rutherford says, <it is not probable that 
God would seal a blank.' It may truly be said of 
him, that he gained more poor sinners to Christ, fai 
that little compass of time which he had to improve 
in the ministerial work, which was about three and 
a half years, than many in the space of twenty, thir- 
ty, forty, or fifty years. Many souls have, and will 
have reason, through eternity, to bless God that 
ever they saw him. But though he was thus hon- 
oured with the smiles of heaven upon his labours ; 
and though favoured with the kind regards of a 
loving and generous people, who had it been possi- 
ble would have plucked out their own eyes and 
have given them to him ; so that no minister before 
was ever the object of a more respectful regard and 
sympathy ; yet was he far fi-om being exalted in his 
own mind, but through grace retained a just, grate- 
ful, and humble' sense of God's distinguishing good- 
ly and his own unwt)rthines8. 

18 



140 THE RST. JOHN TSNNBMT. 

" As he drew nearer to his end, his love for hii 
people, and concern for their welfare increased. He 
would often express himself to one of his brothers^ 
in such language as the following, < I am grieved 
for my people, for I fear they will be left to wander 
as sheep without a shepherd; or get one that will 
pull down what I have poorly endeavoured to build 
up/ His brother, who watched with him in his 
sickness, has frequently overheard him in the deep 
silence of the night, wrestling with God by prayer, 
with sobs and tears, for his people. Yea, when so 
reduced by consumption that he could scarce walk 
alone, he bore the pains of this lingering disease 
with unbroken patience, and silent submission to 
his Father's pleasure, until it pleased God to open a 
door of escape to his captive soul, through the ruins 
of his decayed frame. 

" On Saturday evening — ^the last evening of his 
life — he was seized with a violent pang of death 
which was thought by his attendants to be the last ; 
from which imexpectedly recovering, and observing 
a confusion among them, he addressed one, whom 
he saw uncommonly affected, with a cheerful coun- 
tenance, in the following words, < I would not have 
you think the worse of the ways of holiness, because 
you see me in such agonies of distress, for I know 
there is a crown of glory in heaven for me, which 
I ahall shordy wear.' AfteTwards, In the Qight^ ha 
prayed, ^ Come Lord Jesus I— Jesus, wbjr 






THE H£V. JOHN TENNENT. 141 

dosl thou linger ?* Some time before day, he re- 
peated with humble confidence the last words of 
David, ^ Although my house be not so with God, 
yet hath he made with me an everlasting covenant, 
ordered in all things and sure ; for this is all my 
salvation, and all my desire/ — 2 Sam. xxiii. 5. 

« About the break of day, he called his brother 
William to prayer, and earnestly desired him to im- 
plore Heaven for his speedy removal, for, he said, 
he longed to be gone. About eight or nine o'- 
clock of the next day, which was the Sabbath, his 
desire was granted; when it pleased his Master to 
translate him to that great assembly of the just, < the 
church of the firstborn, there to celebrate an eternal 
Sabbath, in praises and songs of triumph. 

" A few minutes before he expired, holding his 
brother William by the hand, he broke out into the 
following rapturous expressions ; « Farewell, my 
brethren, farewell father and mother; farewell 
world, with all thy vain delights.' Welcome, God 
and Father — welcome, sweet Lord Jesus! Wel- 
come death — welcome eternity. Amen ! Then, 
with a low voice, he said, ^ Lord Jesus, come Lord 
Jesus !' And so he fell asleep in Christ, and obtained 
an abundant entrance into the everlasting kingdom 
of his God and Saviour." 

He was buried in the grave-yard near to the 
church, where he preached, and where his tomb- 
stone may yet be seen. The Rev. Jonathan Dickin* 



■^ 



142 THS RET. JOHN TENNENT. 

son, of Elizabethtown, composed for his tomb-stone; 
the following epitaph : 

** Who quick grew old in learning, virtue, grace. 
Quick finished, well-yielded to death^s embrace : 
Whose mouldered dust, this cabinet contains, 
Whose soul triumphant, with bright seraphs reigns ; 
Waiting the time 'till heaven's bright concave flame. 
And the last trump repairs his ruined frame." 

Much praise cannot be awarded to the poetry of 
the foregoing epitaph, but it serves to show in what 
estimation Mr. Tennent was held, by one of the 
most eminent theologians of his day. 

His death occurred on the 23d day of April, 1732, 
in the twenty-fifth year of his age. 

Mr. Gilbert Tennent, with the memoir of his bro- 
ther John, published also one of his sermons. The 
subject is " Regeneration ;" and is treated in a clear, 
discriminating manner. ^ 

As far as can be judged from the accounts which 
have come down to us, respecting this young pas- 
tor, and from the aforesaid discourse, there is reason 
to conclude, that both in piety and talents, he was 
not inferior to any one of his brothers ; and that if 
he had lived to the usual period of human life, he 
would have been ^^ a burnuig and a shining light'' 
in the church. 

The people of his charge were greatly attached 
to him, and exceedingly lamented his death. There 
it «till extant, the fragment of an old manuscript 



THE REV. JOHN TENNENT. 143 

book, kept by the session of his church, in which is 
contained the following entry : 

" A mournful providence and cause of great hu- 
miliation to this poor congregation, to be bereaved, 
in the flower of youth, of the most laborious, suc- 
cessful, well-qualified, and pious pastor, this age 
aflforded ; though but a youth of twenty -four years 
five months and eleven days." In this record, he is 
called, " the reverend and dear Mr. John Tennent." 

It may be gratifying to some to know the names 
of some of the principal families which constituted 
the congregation of Freehold, which have been 
taken from the record before mentioned. Among 
them we find Ker, Craig, Forman, Anderson, New- 
all, Gordon, Lloyd, Crawford, Henderson, Robinson, 
Rhea, Watson, Wilson, Campbell, Covenhoven, Lit- 
tle, Cumming, English, &c. 



CHAPTEE IX. 

REV. WM. TENNENT'S LETTER. 

The Rev. William TennenCs Letter, to the Rev. Mr. Prince, of Boe- 
tOD, giving the charaeter of the revival in Freehold, N. J. 

The following letter is introduced here, because 
it gives an account of the fruits of the ministry of 
the Rev. John Tennent. It is given literally from 
Prince's Christian History. 

" Freehold, October llM, 1744. 
"Rev. and Dear Sir, 

« I desire to notice thankfully the late rich display 
of our glorious Emanuel's grace, in subduing by his 
word and Spirit, multitudes of sinners to himself, 
both in this and other lands. may he go on < con- 
quering and to conquer,' until he has subdued all 
things unto himself! I^ either can I think but that 
the writing of a history of the great things our Lord 
has done among us, has a tendency to, and will by 
the blessing of God upon it, excite generations yet 
unborn to praise his glorious name, and thereby his 
honour will be advanced, and his triumphs in- 
creased ! Mo8t gladly, Aerefore, do I comply with 



THE REV. WM. TENNENt's LETVEB. 145 

your request, and herewith send such an account as 
I can, of what the Lord hsis done among us. But 
herein, as I must be yery general, having never 
made any memorandums in writing of the Lord's 
work here, so I trust I shall be strictly true, for the 
Lord hates a false witness. 

^ This place lies southwest from New York, and 
is distant from it about fifty miles. It was the first, 
in the East Jersey, on the west side of the Raritan 
River, which was settled with a gospel ministry. 
This was owing, under God, to the agency of some 
Scotch people, that came to it ; among whom there 
was none so painful in this blessed undertaking, as 
one Walter Ker, who in the year lb'85, for his faith- 
ful and conscientious adherence to God and his truth, 
as professed by the Cimrch of Scotland, was there 
apprehended, and sent into this country, under a 
sentence of perpetual banishment. By which it 
appears, that the devil and iiis instruments lost their 
aim in sending him from home ; where it is unlikely 
he could ever have been so serviceable to Christ's 
kingdom as he has been here. He is yet alive ; and 
blessed be God, he is flourishing in his old age, 
being in his 88th year. 

" But to return ; the public means of grace dis- 
pensed here, were at first, for a season, too much 
like a miscarrying womb and dry breasts ; so that 
the major part of the congregation could not be said 
to have so much as « name to live. Family pray>er 



146 THE 'rev. wm. tennbnt's letter. 

was unpractised by all, a very few excepted ; igno- 
rance so overshadowed their minds, that the doctrine 
of the new birth when clearly explained and pow- 
erfully pressed upon them, as absolutely necessary to 
salvation (by that faithful preacher of God's word, 
Mr. Theodorus Jacobus Frelinghuysen, a Low Dutch 
minister, and some other English ministers who were 
occasionally here,) was made a conunon game of; 
so that not only the preachers, but professors of that 
truth, were called in derision new-born, and looked 
upon as holders forth of some new and false doc- 
trine. And, indeed, their practice was as bad as 
their principles, viz. loose and profane. 

"In the year 1729, their minister removed from 
them, and they were so grievously divided among 
themselves, that it appeared improbable they would 
ever agree in the settlement of another. In this 
miserable, helpless, and almost hopeless condition, 
they lay, and few among them had either eyes to 
see, or hearts to bewail their woful, wretched circum- 
stances. Thus they seemed to be cast out, as the 
prophet Ezekiel represents it in the 16th chapter of 
his book, and the 5th verse. But the Lord who is 
rich in mercy, of his unexpected and unmerited love, 
passed by them lying in their blood, and said unto 
many of them since that day, Live ; and live they 
shall to all eternity. 

<< About this time, my dear brother John (who is 
now with Jesus) was licensed as a candidate for 




THS REV. WM. TSITIIENt's LBTT&B. 147 

the sacred, ministry : a youth, whom the Author of 
every good gift had uncommonly furnished for that 
important trust. To him application was made by 
ftome of the congregation, intreating that he would 
supply them for a time ; to which, with the leave 
. of the presbytery, he consented. But ere he went> 
he often told me, that he was heartily sorry he had 
engaged to go among them ; for it seemed to him 
that they were a people whom God had given xxp 
for their abuse of the gospeL But the Lord's 
thoughts are not our thoughts, nor his ways our 
ways ; for when he had preached four or five Sab« 
baths in the place, which was the whole time he 
tarried among them at first, the Lord so blessed his 
labours, engaging people to attend to the things 
which were spoken, and in stirring them up to 
search the scriptures whether these things were so 
or not, and withal enabling him to preach to them 
with such unconunon freedom and earnestness, that 
he told me he was fully persuaded Christ Jesus had 
a large harvest to bring home there ; so that, though 
they were a poor broken people, yet if they called 
him he would settle among them, albeit he should 
be put to beg his bread by so doing. April the 
15th, 1730, the congregation unaninK>U8ly callsd 
him; which he accepting of, was ordained the 19th 
of November following, and continued with them 
until April Sddy 1739, and was then translated ta 




148 TH« REV. WM. TENNENT^S LETTUH. 

<^ During his short time, his labours were greatly 
blessed; so that the place of public worship was 
usually crowded with people of all ranks and orders, 
as well as professions, that obtained in that part of 
the country, and they seemed to hear, generally, as 
for their lives : yea, such as were wont to go to 
those places for their diversion, viz. to hear news or 
9peak to their tradesmen, &c., even on the Lord's 
day, as they themselves have since confessed, were 
taken in the gospel net. A solemn awe of God's 
majesty possessed many, so that they behaved them- 
selves as at his bar, while in his house. Many tears 
were usually shed when he preached, and some- 
times the body of the congregation was moved or 
affected. I can say, and let the Lord alone have the 
glory of it, that I have seen both minister and peo- 
ple wet with their tears, as with a bedewing rain. 
It was no uncommon thing to see persons in the 
time of hearing, sobbing as if their hearts would 
break, but without any public outcry; and some 
have been carried out of the assembly (being over- 
come) as if they had been dead. 

" Religion was then the general subject of dis- 
course, though they did not all approve of the pow- 
er of it. The holy Bible was searched by people on 
both sides of the question, and knowledge surpriz- 
ingly increased. The terror of God fell generally 
U][>on the inhabitants of this place ; so that wicked- 
as ashamed in a great measure hid itself; firol- 



THE KEV. WM. TENNENT's LETTER. 149 

icking, dancing, horse-racing, with other profane 
meetings were broken up. Some of the jolly com- 
panions of both sexes, were constrained by their 
consciences to meet together, the men by themselves, 
and the women by themselves, to confess privately 
their abominations before God, and beg the pardon 
of them. 

"Before my br6ther's death, by reason of his bodi- 
ly weakness, and inability on that account to offici- 
ate publicly, I preached here about six months. In 
which time, many came inquiring what they should 
do to be saved, and some to tell what the Lord had 
done for their souls. But the blessing on his labours 
to the conviction and conversion of souls, was more 
discernible some months after his death, than any 
time in his life ; almost in every neighbourhood — I 
cannot say in every house — there were sin-sick souls, 
longing for and seeking after the dear physician, 
Jesus Christ : several of whom, I no ways doubt 
have, since that time, sincerely closed with him, and 
are healed ; glory, glory to his holy name be given, 
for ever and ever. Amen ! 

" Sometime after my brother's decease, the con- 
gregation called me to labour among them, statedly ; 
which I accepted, and was ordained, October the 
25ih, 1733. Thus my Lord sent me to reap that on 
which I had bestowed but little labour. May this 
consideration be blessed to make me thankful and 
bumble, while I live. 



150 TUB BEY. WM. TENNENT's. LETTEB. 

« I must further declare to the honour of Gk)d, 
that he has not yet left us, although awfully pro- 
voked by our crying crimes; but ever. since that 
more remarkable outpouring of his Spirit has con- 
tinued to bless his own ordinances, to the convic- 
tion, conversion and consolation, of precious souls : 
so that every year, some, more or less have been in a 
judgmentof charity added (savingly,) to his mystical 
body : to his holy name be all the glory. In the 
mean time, I would have it observed, that two dr 
three years last past, have aflbrded fewer instances 
of this kind, than formerly. However, through 
grace some have been lately awakened who are 
even now seeking Jesus sorrowing. What the 
number is of those who have tasted the sweet fruits 
of the Redeemer's purchase in a saving manner, 
in this congregation, I cannot tell : it is my com- 
fort that the Lord will reckon them ; for he knows 
who are his : and indeed none but the omniscient 
God is equal to the difficult province of determining 
certainly concerning the internal states of men. Yet 
I may be bold to say, that to all appearance, both 
old and young, males and females, have been re- 
newed ; though none so young as I have heard of 
in S3m3 othsr places. Some negroes, I trust, are 
made free in Christ ; and more seem to be unfeiga- 
edly seeking after it. But after all that the Lord 
has been pleased to do among us, I am persuaded 
that the greater number, by far, are yet in the gall 



T«B EEV. WM. TENNEATT's LETTSH. 151 

of bitterness and bond of iniquity. This makes me 
sometimes ready to wish, that I had in the wiider-e 
ness the lodging-place of a wayfaring-man, that I 
might leave my people and go from them; or rather 
that my head were waters, and mine eyes a fomi- 
tain of tears, that I might weep day and night for 
them ! Such as have been converted were every 
one of them prepared for it by a sharp law-work of 
conviction, discovering to them in a heart-affecting 
manner, their sinfulness both by nature and prac- 
tise, as well as their liableness to damnation for 
their original and actual transgressions. Neither 
could they see any way in themselves by which 
they could escape the divine vengeance ; for that 
their whole life past, was not only a continued 
act of rebellion against God, but their present en- 
deavours to better it, such as prayers, &c. were so 
imperfect, that they could not endure them, and 
much less, they concluded, would a holy God. They 
all confessed the justice of God in their eternal per- 
dition 5 and thus have been shut up to the blessed 
necessity of seeking relief by faith in Christ alone. 
It would be endless to mention the evils they com* 
plained of; viz. ignorance, unbelief, hardness of 
heart, hatred against God, his laws, and people 
worldliness, wandering of heart in duty, pride, sen- 
suality, sloth, &c. With what grief, shame and self- 
loathing have I heard them bewail their loss of time, 
and neglect of the great gospel salvation. Those 



158 THE REV. WM. TENNE»T*S LETTER. 

that were communicants before their awakening, 
have with trembling declared that their unworthy 
partaking grieved them more than anything ever 
they did ; for hereby they had as it were murdered 
the Lord. It is almost incredible to relate, the in- 
dignation that such awakened sinners expressed 
against themselves, on the account of their sinful- 
ness. They looked upon themselves to be mere 
monsters of nature, and that none were worse if any 
so bad. Others signified that they could not find 
their pictures out of hell, and that they were just fit 
companions for the damned, and none else. Ijet it 
be here noted, that some who have expressed them- 
selves in the manner I have mentioned, were before 
taken for believers both by themselves and others, 
being sober and regular in their walk. 

" The sorrows of the convinced, were not all alike, 
either in degree or continuance. Some have not 
thought it possible for them to be saved, if God 
would vindicate the honour of his justice; but 
these thoughts continued not long at a time, blessed 
be God. Others thought it was possible, but not 
very probable, because of their vileness. The 
greatest degree of hope which, any bad, under a 
conviction that issued well, was a maybe ; « perad- 
venture, or maybe, God will have mercy on me,' 
said the sinner. Some, in coming to Jesus, have 
been much rent with blasphemous and other horri- 
ble temptations, which have turned their moisture 



THE REV, WM. TENNENT's JLETTEH. 153 

into the drought of summer; who now through 
pure grace serve God, without such distractions, in 
gladness and singleness of heart. The conviction of 
some has been instantaneous ; by the Holy Spirit's 
applying the law to the conscience, and discovering 
to the eye of the understanding, as it were, all their 
heart deceits very speedily ; by which they have 
been stabbed as with a sword. But the conviction 
of others, has been in a more progressive way. 
They have had discovered to them, one abomination 
after another, in life ; and from thence were led to 
behold the fountain of all corruption in the heart ; 
and thus they were constrained to despair of life by 
the law, and consequently to flee to Jesus as the 
only door of hope, and so rest entirely on his merit 
for salvation. 

" After the aforesaid sorrowful exercises, such as 
were reconciled to God have been blessed with the 
Spirit of adoption, enabling them to cry, Abba, Fa- 
ther. But some have had greater degrees of conso- 
lation than others, in proportion to the clearness of 
the evidences of their sonship. The Lord has 
drawn some out of the horrible pit of distress and 
darkness, and brought them into the hght of his 
countenance. He has filled their hearts with joy, 
and their mouths with praises ; yea, given them the 
full assurance of faith. Others have been brought 
to peace in believing ; but have not had so great a 
pkrophory of joy ; yet they go on in a religious 



154 TH£ REV. WM. TENNENT's LETTER. 

course, trusting in the Lord. The way they have" 
been comforted is either by the application of some 
particular promise of holy scripture, or by a soul- 
affecting view of the way of salvation by Christ, as 
free, without money and without price. They were 
enabled to behold the valuable nlercies of the cov- 
enant of grace, freely tendered to the vilest trans- 
gressors, that were poor in their own eyes, sin-sick, 
weary and wounded, together with the ability and 
willingness of the Lord Jesus to relieve them from 
all the evils, they either feared or felt. With this 
way of salvation their souls were well pleased, and 
thereupon, have ventured their case into his hands, 
expecting help from him only ; who has given them 
both peace and rest ; yea, filled some of them with 
joy unspeakable and full of glory. I remember not 
of any that received their first comforts otherwise. 
Some few have retained their confidence in God 
ever since, without any considerable questionings of 
their state, although they have not always tasted 
the comforts of it. But the most, by far, have ques- 
tioned all, and doubted it was a delusion. This I sup- 
pos3 is generally owing to the remains of corruption, 
which blot the evidences of grace in good men, so 
that they can hardly read them ; and particularly, to 
the awful sin of unbelief; together with the preva- 
lence of a legal spirit, which presses them to perfect 
holiness on pain of death, and because they cannot 



THB &£V. WM. TENNEKT's L£TT£B. 155 

obtain that, they conclude they are unsanctified, 
and have no right to Christ. I might add the ig- 
norance of mortification ; they seem to think that in 
the justified^ sin is killed in its being, as well as gov- 
erning power ; and, therefore, because they feel their 
old sins sometimes stirring in them, they conclude 
that all is wrong ; nay, although they hate the doc- 
trine of perfection as held by some, yet because 
they are not perfect they think they have no grace. 
But however distressing it is to them to feel their 
imperfections, it helps to persuade me that they ate 
regenerate ; else it would not be so ; sin would nbt 
be their chief burden, in a general way. 

"However, our Lord who comforts those that are 
cast down, even the wonderful Counsellor, teaches 
them, that he not only saves those who have been 
sinners before conversion, but even such as after it, 
find a law in their members warring against the law 
of their minds, which too often causes them to do 
the things they would not ; and enables them to re- 
flect upon what they have and do daily experience, 
and compare it with the evidences of grace in the 
word of God. The blessed God does likewise give 
them renewed tastes of his love, even after mis- 
steps; and thus they are established in faith and 
hope, so that they have a prevailing persuasion of 
their interest in Christ ; except it be in times of de- 
sertion and temptation, with which some are movo 

K2 



156 THE KEV. WM. TENNENT's LETTEB. 

exercised than other?, for reasons best known to a 
sovereign God. 

" Doubtless, Sir, you will desire to know, what ef- 
fects this work produces on the minds and manners of 
its subjects. I answer, they are not only made to 
know, but heartily to approve of the great doctrines of 
the gospel, which they were before either ignorant of 
or averse to, (at least some of them) so that they do 
harmonize sweetly in exalting free, special, and sov- 
ereign grace, through the Redeemer Jesus Christ; 
being willing to glory only in the Lord, who has 
loved them and given himself for them, an offering 

and a sacrifice of a sweet-smelling savour. 
« I cannot express, with what satisfaction I have 

heard them speak of the new covenant method of sal- 
vation. They have spoken with such affection and 
clearness, as I have thought was sufl5.cient to convince 
an atheist, that the Lord was their Teacher. The alte- 
ration in some, from almost gross ignorance to such 
clear gospel light, and in others from such corrupt 
principles, as the Papists and Quakers hold, to the 
believing acknowledgment of the truth, none but he 
that made the understanding could effect. They 
approve of the law of God after the inward man, as 
holy, just, and good, and prize it above gold, yea, 
much fine gold. They judge it their duty as well 
as privilege to wait on God in all the ordinances of 
his own institution, although they expect to merit 
nothing thereby. A reverence for God's command* 



Tflft REV. WM. TENNBNT^S LSTTSB. 157 

ing authority, and gratitude for his love, conspire to 
incite and constrain them, to a willing, unfeigned, 
universal and unfainting obedience to his laws : yet 
they declare that in everything they come sadly short 
of what they ought to do, and bitterly bewail their de- 
fects. But blessed be God, they are not discouraged 
in their endeavours to reach forward, if by any 
means they may apprehend that for which they are 
apprehended of God; and in all things they ac- 
knowledge that they ought to look to Jesus as the 
author and finisher of faith, whose alone it is to 
work all good in them and for them, to whom be 
glory for ever. They are not unmolested in their 
way by enemies, both from within and from with- 
out. Yet, they profess that the comforts which they 
receive do more than compensate all their labour, 
were there no good to be expected hereafter : and 
.surely, as the psalmist observes, < in keeping God's 
commands there is a great reward.* But to proceed : 
" They have not all made alike proficiency in the 
Christian course ; neither are they all equal in reli- 
gious endeavours ; nor any at all times alike lively. 
They are sometimes obstructed in their religious 
progress by coldness and deadness; but this the 
blessed Jesus removes at times, by the influence of 
his Holy Spirit ; then, then, their hearts are en- 
larged, and they run the sweet way of God's com- 
mandments with alacrity and delight, they love 

all such as they have reason to think, firom their 

K3 




158 THB RSY. WM. TSNNENt's LETTfifi. 

principles, experience, and practice, are truly godly, 
though they differ from them in sentiment in lesser 
things, and look on them to be the excellent of the 
earth. They rejoice in Zion^s prosperity ; glorify- 
ing God on that account, and feel a sympathy in her 
sorrows. They do prefer one another before them- 
selves, in love ; except, under temptation, which 
they are ready to confess and bewail, when they are 
themselves ; generally accounting that they are the 
meanest of the family of God, and unworthy of the 
blessing ; yea, the most so of any living, all things 
considered. In a word, the sapless fonnalist is be- 
come spiritual in his oonversation ; the proud and 
haughty are made humble and affable ; the wanton 
and vile, sober and temperate ; the swearer honours 
that venerable name he was wont to profane, and 
blesses, instead of cursing ; the Sabbath-breaker is 
brought to be a strict observer of holy time ; the, 
worldling now seeks treasures in the heavens ; the 
extortioner now deals justly 5 and the formerly ma- 
licious, forgive injuries ; the prayerless are earnest 
and incessant in acts of devotion ; and the sneaking 
self-seeker, endeavours the advancement of God's 
glory, and the salvation of immortal souls. 

" Through God's mercy we have been quite free 
from enthusiasm; our people have followed the 
holy law of God, the sure word of prophecy, and not 
the impulses of their own minds. There have not 
been that I know of^ among us^ any visions, except 



THK KEV. WM. TBNNEWT's LETTER. 150 

such as are by faith, namely, clear and aflfecting 
views of the new and living way to the Father 
through his dear Son Jesus Christ ; nor any revela- 
tions but what have been long since written in the 
sacred volume : nor any trances but such as all men 
now living shall meet with, for it is appointed fol* 
all men once to die. 

" It may got be amiss to inform you, that many 
who have been awakened, and seemed for a time to 
set out for Zion, are turned back. Yea, of those 
whe have been esteemed converts, some have made 
shipwreck of faith and a good conscience ; though, 
glory to God, there have not been many such ; yet 
some of them who have thus awfully apostatized, 
were highly esteemed in the church. By this, our 
good and gracious God has given check to too high 
an esteem of our own judgment, concerning the spi- 
ritual states of others, (an evil which is too common 
among young converts) and awfully warned all that 
stand, to take heed lest they fall. Many, 1 have 
cause to fear, have been hardened in their impieties 
and unreasonable prejudices against vital religion, 
by the backslidings of some professors. * Wo to the 
world, because of oflfences!' But in the mean time, 
blessed be God, Wisdom is and will be justified of 
her children. 

« This, Sir, is as particular an account, as I can at 
present give of the Lord's work, in this place. If 
my Lord will accept it as a testimony for him, it 



160 THE RJBV. WM. TENNENT's LETTER. 

will be a greater honour than ever I deserved. I 
need your prayers, and earnestly desire them. O 
beg of God, that I may be faithful to the death, and 
wise to win souls. I am with all due respects, 
yours in the dearest Jesus, 

WM. TENNENT,". 

"ATTESTATION to the preceding Account by the 

Ruling Elders and Deacons of the Congrega^ 

tion of Freehold, 

« We the subscribers, Ruling Elders and Deacons 
of the Presbyterian congregation of Freehold, hav- 
ing had perfect knowledge of the circumstances of 
this place, some of us from the first settling of it, 
and others of a long time, do give our testimony to 
the truth in general, of the above letter of our Rev. 
pastor. May the Lord make the same of use for 
the carrying on his glorious work begun -in these 
lands, and make the name of the dearest Jesus glo- 
rious from the rising to the setting sun. 

Walter Ker, Robert Gumming, 
David Rhea, John Henderson, 

William Ker, Samuel Ker. 

Freehold, in New Jersey, October 11th, 1744." 



CHAPTER X. 

MEMOIR OF THE REV. WILLIAM TEN- 

NENT, JR. 

Preliminary Remarks — Mr.^Tennent'sbiith and education — ricknesf, 
apparent death, and recovery — State of his mind during his trance 
— Settlement and ordination as successor to his brother at Free- 
hold — Marriage — Character as a pastor and success in the ministry 
— ^Trial for Perjury — Extiaordinary means of deliverance — The 
close of life. 

The following memoir of the Rev. William Ten- 
nent, jr., was originally published in « The Assem- 
bly's Missionary Magazine/' in the year 1806 5 
and although it was not accompanied with the au- 
thor's name, it was well understood to be from the 
pen of the Hon. Elias Boudinot, LL.D., who was 
particularly acquainted with all the members of this 
remarkable family. But although Dr. Boudinot 
prepared this memoir for the press, the greater part 
of the narrative was written, at his request, by the 
late Dr. Henderson, of Freehold, one of the elders of 
the Freehold church, and a man distinguished for 
his piety, integrity, veracity, and patriotism. This 
original manuscript is now in the possession of the 
compiler of this volume. From it we learn, that 



16S TH£ BXV. WM. TENNENT, JK. 

the history of Mr. Tennent's trial, which occurred 
soon after his settlement in the ministry, and when 
Dr. Henderson was too young to be a competent 
witness, was received from his father, who was 
then an elder in the church of Freehold, of which 
Mr. William Tennent was the pastor. There 
can be no doubt about the authenticity of the 
facts here stated, however they may be accounted 
for. The writer has heard the same facts from 
elderly persons, who never had seen this published 
account ; and they were so public, that they were 
generally known, not only to the people of this 
part of the country, but they were currently re- 
ported and fully believed, in other states. The 
writer has heard them, familiarly talked of in Vir- 
ginia, from his childhood. It is a matter of some 
regret that the record of this trial cannot be found, 
yet papers have been discovered among the archives 
of the state, in which reference is made to this trans- 
action. ' The following is the narrative. 

" Among the duties which every generation owes 
to those who are to succeed it, we may reckon the 
careful delineation of the characters of those whose 
example deserves, and may invite imitation. Ex- 
ample speaks louder than precept, and living practi- 
cal religion has a much greater effect on mankind 
than argument or eloquence. Hence, the lives of 
pious men become the most important sources of in- 
struction and warning to posterity ; while their ex- 



THE KEV. WM. TENKENT, JK. 1^3 

emplary conduct affords. the best commentary on the 
rehgion they professed. But when such men have 
been remarkably favoured of God, with unusual de- 
grees of light and knowledge, and have been ho- 
noured by the special and extraordinary influences 
of his Holy Spirit, and by the most manifest and 
wonderful interpositions of divine Providence in their 
behalf, it becomes a duty of more than common 
obligation, to hand down to posterity the principal 
events of their lives, together with such useful infer- 
ences a.s they naturally suggjBst. A neglect of this 
duty, even by persons who may be conscious, of the 
want of abilities necessary for the complete biogra- 
pher, is greatly culpable ; for, if the strictest attention 
be paid to the truth of the facts related, and all exag- 
geration or pa.rt.ial representation be carefully avoid- 
ed, the want of other furniture can be no excuse for 
burying in oblivion that conduct which, if known, 
might edify and benefit the worlds 

" The writer of these memoirs has difficulties of a 
peculiar kind to encounter, in attempting to sketch 
the life of that modest, humble, and worthy man, 
whose actions, exercises, and sentiments he w:ishes 
to record. Worldly men, who are emulous to trans- 
mit their names to following ages, take care to leave 
such materials for the future historian, as may secure 
the celebrity which they seek. But the humble fol- 
lower of the meek and lowly Jesus, whose sole aim 
is the glory of God, in the welfare of immortal souls* 



IM THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 

goes on, from day to day, as seeiag Him who is in- 
visible, careful to approve himself only to the 
Searcher of hearts, regardless of worldly fame or dis- 
tinction, and leaving it to his heavenly Father to 
reward him openly, in the day of final account 
The writer of such a man's life, must principally 
rely on a personal acquaintance with him,- and the 
communications of his intimate friends, for the. in- 
formation which shall be imparted to the public. In 
these circumstances it is peculiarly embarrassing, if 
some of the facts to be recorded are of such a nature^ 
that it is most desirable to have their authenticity so 
fully established, th§it incredulity shall be confounded, 
and the sneer of the sceptical and profane lose its 
ejflfect. But the writer of the following narrative, 
though placed in these circumstances, and having 
such facts to detail, has nevertheless determined to 
proceed. He has refreshed and corrected his own 
recollection, by the niost careful inquiries that he 
could possibly make of others, until he is well as- 
sured, that what he shall state is incontestable truth. 
From the very nature of several things of Avhich an 
account will be given, they do not indeed admit- of 
any other direct testimony than that of the remarka- 
able-^man to whom they relate. But if there ever 
was a person who deserved to be believed unre- 
servedly on his own word, it was he. He possessed 
an integrity of soul and a soundness of judgment, 
which did actually secure him an unlimited confi- 



THE REV. WM. TENMENT^ JR. 165 

dehce from all who knew him. Every species of 
deception, falsehood, and exaggeration he abhorred 
and scorned. He was an Israelite indeed, in whom 
there was no guile. With such materials, then, as 
have been mentioned^ and for a work of such charac- 
ter as has been hinted, the writer has undertaken his 
task. He has undertaken what he would most 
gladly have resigned to an abler hand; but from 
which, as no other offered, he dared not withhold his 
own. He could wish that speculative and even un- 
believing minds might be instructed and convinced 
by these memoirs. But bis principal object, and 
that in which he trusts he shall not be entirely dis- 
appointed, is to direct, assist, and comfort pious souls, 
groaning under the pressure of the calamities which 
they often have to endure in their pilgrimage through 
the wilderness of this world.'* 

<< The Rev. Wm. Tennent, of Freehold, New Jer- 
sey, was the second son of the Rev, Wm. Tennent, 
sen., and was born on the 3d day of June, 1705j 
in the county of Armagh, in Ireland, and was just 
turned of thirteen years when he arrived in America. 
He applied himself with much zeal and industry to 
bis studies, and made great proficiency in the lan- 
guages, particularly in the Latin. Being early im- 
pressed with a deep sense of divine things, he soon 
determined to follow the example of his father and 
elder brother, by devoting himself to the service of 
God in the ministry of the go^. His brother Qil* 



166 THK REV. WM. TEKXENT, J<. 

bert being called to the pastoral charge of the church 
at New Brunswick, in New Jersey, and making a 
rery considerable figure as a useful and popular 
preacher, WUliam determined, as he had completed 
his course in the languages, to study divinity under 
his brother. Accordingly, he left his father's house 
with his consent, and by his advice, and went to 
New Brunswick. At his departure from home, 
which was considered as his setting out in life, his 
father addressed him with great affection, commend- 
ing him to the favour and protection of that God, 
from whom he himself had received so much mercy 
and who had directed him in all his migrations. He 
gave him a small sum of money, as the amount of 
all he could do for him, telling him that if he behaved 
well and did his duty, this was an ample provision 
for him ; and if he should act otherwise, and prove 
ungrateful to a kind and gracious God, it was too 
much and more than he deserved. Thus, with a pit- 
tance, and the blessing of a pious and affectionate 
parent, of more consequence than thousands of 
pounds, the young student set out in the world. 

« After a regular course of study in theology, Mr. 
Tennent was preparing for his examination by the 
presbytery as a candidate for the gospel ministry. 
His intense application affected his health, and 
brought on a pain in his breast, and a slight hectic. 
He soon became emaciated, and at length was like a 
living skeleton. His life was now threatened. He 



THE BEV. WM. TENKENT, JR. 167 

was attended by a physician, a young gentleman 
who was attached to him by the strictest and warm- 
est friendship. He grew worse and worse, till little 
hope of life was left. In this situation, his spirits 
failed him, and he began to entertain doubts of his 
final happiness. He was conversing, one morning, 
with his brother, in Latin, on the state of his soul 
when he fainted and died away. After the usual 
time, he was laid out on a board, according to the 
common practice of the country, and the neighbour- 
hood were invited to attend his funeral on the next 
day. In the evening, his physician and friend re- 
turned from a ride in the country, and was afflicted 
beyond measure at the news of his death. He could 
not be persuaded that it was certain ; and on being 
told that one of the persons who had assisted in lay- 
ing out the body thought he had observed a little 
tremor of the flesh under the arm, although the body 
was cold and stifi*, he endeavoured to ascertain the 
fact. He first put his own hand into warm water, to 
make it as sensible as possible, and then felt under 
the arm, and at the heart, and affirmed that he felt 
an unusual warmth, though no one else could. He 
had the body restored to a warm bed, and insisted 
that the people who had been invited to the funeral 
should be requested not to attend. To this the bro- 
ther objected as absurd, the eyes being sunk, the 
lips discoloured, and the whole body cold and stiff. 
However, the doctor finally prevailed ; and all pro- 



168 THE B£V. WM. TSNNENT, JB. 

bable means were used to discover symptoms of re- 
turning life. But the third day arrived, and no 
hopes were entertained of success, but by the doctor, 
who never left him night nor day. The people were 
again invited, and assembled to attend the funeral* 
The doctor still objected, and at last confined his re- 
quest for delay to one hour, then to half an hour, 
and finally to a quarter of an hour. He had disco- 
vered that the tongue was much swollen, and threat- 
ened to crack. He was endeavouring to soften it, 
by some emollient ointment put upon it with a 
feather, when the brother came in, about the expira- 
tion of the last period, and mistaking what the doc- 
tor was doing for an attempt to feed him, manifest- 
ed some resentment, and in a spirited tone, said, < It 
is shameful to be feeding a lifeless corpse ;' and in- 
sisted, with earnestness, that the funeral should im- 
mediately proceed. At this critical and important 
moment, the body, to the great alarm and astonish- 
ment of all present, opened its eyes, gave a dreadful 
groan, and sunk again into apparent death. This 
put an end to all thoughts of burying him, and 
every efibrt was again employed in hopes of bring- 
ing about a speedy resuscitation^ In about an hour, 
the eyes again opened, a heavy groan proceeded 
from the body, and again all appearance of anima- 
tion vanished. In another hour, life seemed to 
return with more power, and a complete revival 
took place, to the great joy of the family and frie&ds. 



THE KEV. WM. TENKEKT, JB. 169 

and to the no small astonishment and conviction of 
very many who had been ridiculing the idea of 
restoring to life, a dead body. 

« Mr. Tennent continued in so weak and low a 
state for six weeks, that great doubts were enter- 
tained of his final recovery. However, after that 
period he recovered much faster, but it was about 
twelve months before he was completely restored. 
After he was able to walk the room, and to take 
notice of what passed around him, on a Sunday 
afternoon, his sister, who had staid from church to 
attend him, was reading in the Bible, when he took 
notice of it, and asked her what she had in her hand. 
She answered that she was reading the Bible. He 
replied, < What is the Bible ? I know not what you 
mean.' This afiected the sister so much that she 
burst into tears, and infornied him, that he was once 
well acquainted with it. On her reporting this to 
the brother, when he returned, Mr. Tennent was 
found, upon examination, to be totally ignorant of 
every transaction of his life previous to his sickness. 
He could not read a single word, neither did he 
seem to have any idea of what it meant. As soon 
as he became capable of attention, he was taught to 
read and write, as children are usually taught, and 
afterwards began to learn the Latin language under 
the tuition of his brother. One day, as he was 
reciting a lesson in Cornelius Nepos, he suddenly 
•tarted, clapped bis hand to his head, as if something 



170 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JH. 

had hurt him, and made a pause. His brother ask- 
ing him what was the matter, he said, that he felt a 
sudden shock in his head, and it now seemed to 
him as if he had read that book before. By degrees, 
his recollection was restored, and he could speak the 
Latin as fluently as before his sickness. His memory 
so completely revived, that he gained a perfect 
knowledge of the past transactions of his life, as if no 
difficulty had previously occurred. This event, at 
the time, made a considerable noise, and afibrded, 
not only matter of serious contemplation to the de- 
vout Christian, especially when connected with what 
follows in this narration, but furnished a subject of 
deep investigation and learned inquiry lo the real 
philosopher and curious anatomist. 

" The writer of these memoirs was greatly inte- 
rested by these uncommon events ; and, on a favour- 
able occasion, earnestly pressed Mr. Tennent for a 
minute account of what his views and apprehensions 
were, while he lay in this extraordinary state of sus- 
pended animation. He discovered great reluctance 
to enter into any explanation of his perceptions and 
feelings, at this time ; but, being importunately urged 
to do it, he at length consented, and proceeded with 
a solemnity not to be described. 

« « While I was conversing with my brother,' said 
he', < on the state of my soul, and the fears I had en- 
tertained for my future welfare, I found myself, in 
an instant, in another state of existence, under the 



THE REV. WM. TENWEBTT, JR. 171 

direction of a superior being, who ordered me to 
follow him. I was accordingly wafted along, I 
know not how, till I beheld at a distance an ineffable 
glory, the impression of which on my mind it is im* 
possible to communicate to mortal man. I imme- 
diately reflected on my happy change, and thought, 
— Well, blessed be God ! I am safe at last, notwith- 
standing all my fears. I saw an innumerable host 
of happy beings, surrounding the inexpressible glory, 
in acts of adoration and joyous worship ; but I did 
not see any bodily shape or representation in the 
glorious appearance. I heard things unutterable. I 
heard their songs and hallelujahs of thanksgiving 
and praise, with unspeakable rapture. I felt joy 
unutterable and full of glory. I then applied to my 
conductor, and requested leave to join the happy 
throng. On which he tapped me on the shoulder, 
and said, <You must return to the earth.^ This 
seemed like a sword through my heart. In an in- 
stant, I recollect to have seen my brother standing 
before me, disputing with the doctor. The three days 
during which I had appeared lifeless, seemed to me 
not more than ten or twenty minutes. The idea of 
returning to this world of sorrow and trouble, gave 
me such a shock, that I fainted repeatedly.' He 
pided, * Such was the effect on my mind of what I 
had seen and heard, that if it be possible for a hu- 
man being to live entirely above the world and the 
things of it for some time afterwards, I was that per- 



178 THE REV. WM. TENNEHT, JTK. 

son The ravishing sounds of the songs and halle- 
lujahs that I heard, and the very words utter- 
ed, were not out of my ears, when awake, for at 
least three years. All the kingdoms of the earth 
wore in my sight as nothing and vanity; and so 
great were my ideas of heavenly glory, that nothing, 
which did not, in some measure, relate to it, could 
command my serious attention/* 

♦ " The author has been particularly solicitous to obtain 
every confirmation of this extraordinary event in the life of 
Mr. Tennent. He accordingly wrote to every person he 
could think of, likely to have cgnversed with Mr. T. on the 
subject. He received several answers ; but the following 
letter from the worthy successor of Mr. Tennent, in the pas- 
toral charge of his church, will answer for the author's pur- 
pose. 

" ^Monmouth, Neiv Jersey, Dec, 10th, 1805. 
" * Dear Sir, 

" 'Agreeably to your request, I now send you in writing the 
remarkable account, which I sometime since gave you ver- 
bally, respecting your good friend, my worthy predecessor, 
the late Rev. William Tennent, of this place. In a very free 
and feeling conversation on religion, and on the future rest 
and blessedness of the people of God, (while travelling to- 
gether from Monmouth to Princeton) I mentioned to Mr. 
Tennent, that I should be highly gratified in hearing, from 
his own mouth, an account of the trance which he was said 
to have been in, unless the relation would be disagreeable to 
himself After a short silence, he proceeded, saying, that he 
had been sick with a fever, that the fever increased, and he 
by degrees sunk under it. After some time (as his friends 
informed him) he died, or appeared to die, in the same man- 
ner as persons usually do ; that in laying him out, one hap- 
pened to draw his hand under the left arm, and perceived « 



THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 173 

<< It is not surprising, that after so affecting an ac- 
count, strong solicitude should have been felt for 
further information as to the words, or at least the 
subjects of praise and adoration, which Mr. Tennent 

email tremor in the flesh ; that he was laid out, and was cold 
and stiff. The time for his funeral was appointed, and the 
people collected ; but a young doctor, his particular friend, 
pleaded with great earnestness that he might not then be 
buried, as the tremor under the arm continued ; that his bro- 
ther Gilbert, becam e impatient with the young gentleman, 
and said to him, '•What ! a man not dead, who is cold and 
stiff as a stake ?* The importunate young friend, however, 
prevailed ; another day was appointed for the burial, and the 
people separated. During this interval, many means were 
made use of to discover, if possible, some symptoms of life, 
but none appeared excepting the tremor. The doctor never 
left him for three nights and three days. The people again 
met to bury him, but could not even then obtain the consent 
of his friend, who pleaded for one hour more ; and when that 
was gone, he pleaded for half an hour, and then for a quar- 
ter of an hour ; when, just at the close of this period, on 
which hung his last hope, Mr. Tennent opened his eyes. 
They then pried open his mouth, which was stiflf, so as to 
get a quill into it, through which some liquid was conveyed 
into the stomach, and he by degrees recovered* 

" * This account, as intimated before, Mr. Tennent said he 
had received from his friends. I said to him, ' Sir, you seem 
to be one indeed raised from the dead, and may tell us what 
it is to die, and what you were sensible of while in that state. 
He replied in the following words: *As to dying — I found 
my fever increase, and I became weaker and weaker, untill all 
at once, I found myself in heaven, as I thought. I saw no 
shape as to the Deity, but glory all unutterable /' Here he 
paused, as though unable to find words to express his views, 
let his bridle fall, and lifting up his hands, proceeded, * I can 
tay, as St. Paul did, I heard and I saw things all unutterable: 
I taw a great multitude before this glory, apparently in th« 

L2 



174 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JH. 

had heard. But when he was requested to commu- 
nicate these> he gave a decided negative, adding, 
« You will know them, with many other particulars, 
hereafter, as you will find the whole among my pa- 
pers -J alluding to his intention of leaving the writer 

height of hfisSi singing most melodiously. I was transported 
with my own situation, viewing all my troubles ended and 
my rest and glory begun, and was about to join the great and 
happy multitude, when one came to me, looked me full in 
the face, laid his hand upon my shoulder, and said, ' You 
must go back.' These words went through me; nothing 
could have shocked me more ; I cried out, Lord, must I go 
back ! With this shock I opened my eyes in this world. 
When I saw I was in the world, I fainted, then came to, and 
fainted for several tiroes, as one probably would naturally 
have done in so weak a situation. 

" *Mr. Tennent further informed me, that he had so entirely 
lost the recollection of his past life, and the benefit of his 
former studies, that he could neither understand what was 
spoken to him, nor write, nor read his own name. That he 
had to begin aU anew, and did not recollect that he had ever 
read before, until he had again learned his letters, and was 
able to pronounce the monosyllables, such as thee and thou* 
But, that as his strength returned, which was very slowly, 
his memory also returned. Yet, notwithstanding the ex|reme 
feebleness of his situation, his recollection of what he saw 
and heard while in heaven, as he supposed, and the sense ol 
divine things, which he there obtained, continued all the 
time in their full strength, so that he was continually in 
something like an ecsiacy of mind. ^And,' said he, * for 
three years, the sense of divine things continued so great, 
and every thing else appeared so completely vain, when 
compared to heaven, that could I have had the world for 
stooping down for it, I believe I should not have thought of 
domg it.* " 



THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JB. 175 

hereof his executor, which precluded any further 
soHcitation.* 

" The pious and candid reader is left to his own 
reflections on this very extraordinary occurrence. 
The facts have been stated, and they are unquestion* 
able. The writer will only ask, whether it be con- 
trary to revealed truth or to reason, to believe, that 
in every age of the world, instances like that which 
is here recorded, have occurred, to furnish living tes- 
timony of the reality of the invisible world, and of 
the infinite importance of eternal concerns ? 

"As soon as circumstances would permit, Mr. Ten- 
nent was licensed, and began to preach the ever- 
lasting gospel with great zeal and success. The 
death of his brother John, who had been some 
time settled as minister of the Presbyterian church 

♦ ** It was so ordered, in the course of divine Providence, 
that the writer was sorely disappointed in his expectation of 
obtaining the papers here alluded to. Such, however, was 
the will of Heaven ! Mr. Tennent's death happened during 
the revolutionary war, when the enemy separated the writer 
from him, so as to render it impracticable to attend him on 
a dying bed ; and before it was possible to get to his house, 
after his death (the writer being with the American army at 
the Valley-Forge), his son came from Charleston, and took 
his mother, and his father^s papers and property, and re- 
turned to Carolina. About fifty miles from Charleston, the 
ion was suddenly taken sick and died among entire strangers; 
and never since, though the writer was also left executor to 
the son, could any trace of the father's papers be discovered 
by him." 

LS 



176 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JB. 

at Freehold, in the county of Monmouth, New Jer- 
sey, left that congregation in a destitute state. They 
had experienced so much spiritual benefit from the 
indefatigable labours and pious zeal, of this able 
minister of Jesus Christ, that they soon turned their 
attention to his brother, who was received on trial, 
and after one year, was found to be no unworthy 
successor to so excellent a predecessor. In October, 
1733, Mr. Tennent was regularly ordained their 
pastor, and conthiued so through the whole of a 
pretty long life ; one of the best proofs of ministe- 
rial fidelity. 

Although his salary was small, (it is thought un- 
der jeiOO,) yet the glebe belonging to the church 
was an excellent plantation, on which he lived, and 
which, with care and good farming, was capable of 
maintaining a family with comfort. But his inat- 
tention to the things of this world was so great, that 
he left the management of his temporal concerns 
wholly to a faithful servant, in whom he placed 
great confidence. After a short time, he found his 
worldly afiairs were becoming emb^irrassed. His 
steward reported to him that he was in debt to the 
merchant between 20/. and 30/., and he knew of no 
means of payment, as the c^Lops had fallen short. 
Mr. Tennent mentioned this to an intimate friend, a 
merchant of New York, who was on a visit at his 
house. His friend told him, that this mode of life 
would not do, that he must get a wife, to attend to 



THE REV. WM. TENNEST, JB. 177 

his temporal aflfairs, and to comfort his leisure hours 
by conjugal endearments. He smiled at the idea, 
and assured him it never could be the case, unless 
some friend woulji provide one for him, for he knew 
not how to go about it. His friend told him he was 
ready to undertake the business ; that he had a sis- 
ter-in-law, an excellent woman, of great piety, a 
widow, of his own age, and one peculiarly suited 
in all respects to his character and circumstances. 
In short, that she was every thing he ought to look 
for ; and if he would go with him to New York the 
next day, he would settle the negociation for him. 
To this he soon assented. The next evening found 
him in that city, and before noon the day after, he 
was introduced to Mrs. Noble. He was much 
pleased with her appearance ; and, when left alone 
with her, abruptly told her, that he supposed her 
brother had informed her of his errand ; that neither 
his time nor inclination would suffer him to use 
much ceremony ; but that if she approved the mea- 
sure, he would attend his charge on the next Sabbath, 
and return on Monday, be married, and immediately 
take her home. The lady, with some hesitation and 
difficulty, at last consented, being convinced that his 
situation and circumstances rendered it proper. 
Thus, in one week, she found herself mistress of his 
house. She proved a most invaluable treasure to 
him, more than answering every thing said of her by 
an affectionate brother. She took the care of his 



178 THE REV. WM. TBNNENT, JR. 

temporal concerns upon her, extricated him from 
debt, and, by a happy union of prudence and econ- 
omy, so managed all his worldly business, that in a 
few years his circumstances becanje easy and com- 
fortable. In a word, in her was literally fulfilled the 
declaration of Solomon, that « a virtuous woman is 
a crown to her husband, and that her price is far 
above rubies.' Besides several children who died 
in infancy, he had by her, three sons, who attained 
the age of manhood; J.ohn, who studied physic, and 
died in the West Indies when about thirty-three 
years of age ; William, a man of superior charac- 
ter, and minister of the Independent church in 
Charleston, South Carolina, who died the latter end 
of September, or beginning of October, a. d. 1777, 
about thirty-seven years old ; and Gilbert, who also 
practised physic, and died at Freehold, before his 
father, aged twenty eight years. Few parents could 
boast three sons of a more manly or handsome ap- 
pearance ; and the father gave them the most liberal 
education that the country could afford. 

" Mr. Tennent's inattention to earthly things con- 
tinued till his eldest son was about tlu'ee years old, 
when he led him out into the fields on a Lord's day, 
after public worship. The design of the walk was 
for religious meditation. As he went along, acci- 
dentally casting his eye on the child, a thought sud- 
denly struck him, and he asked himself this ques- 
tion : < shoiild God in his providence take me hence. 



THE REV. WM. TENNEMT^ JR. 179 

what would become of this child and his mother, 
for whom I have never taken any personal care to 
make provision ? How can I answer this neghgence 
to God and to them?' The impropriety of his inatten- 
tion to the relative duties of life, which God had called 
him to ; and the consideration of the sacred declara- 
tion, <that he who does not provide for his own house-j 
hold, has denied the faith, and is worse than an in^ 
fidel,' had such an impressive effect on his mind, that 
it almost deprived him of his senses. He saw his 
conduct, which before he thought arose eijitirely 
from a deep sense of divine things, in a pomt of 
light in which he never before had viewed it. He 
immediately attempted to return home, but so great 
was his distress, that it was with difficulty he could 
get along ; till, all at once, he was relieved by as 
suddenly recurring to that text of scripture, which 
came into his mind with extraordinary force, < but 
unto the tribe of Levi Moses gave not any inheri- 
tance, the Lord God of Israel was their inheritance.' 
Such, however, was the effect of this unexpected 
scene on Mr. Tennent's mind and judgment, that 
ever afterwards he prudently attended to the tem- 
poral business of life, still, however, in perfect sub- 
ordination to the great things of eternity ; and be- 
came fully convinced that God was to be faithfully 
served, as well by discharging relative duties in his 
love and fear, as by the more immediate acts of de- 
votioiL He clearly perceived, that every duty had 



180 THE REV. WM. TENNEXT, JK. 

its proper time and place, as well as motive ; tliat 
we had a right, and were called of God, to eat and 
drink, and to be properly clothed ; and of course 
that care should be taken to procure those things, 
provided that all be done to the glory of God. In 
the duties of a gospel minister, however, especially 
as they related to his pastoral charge, he still en- 
gaged with the utmost zeal and faithfulness ; and 
was esteemed by all ranks and degrees, as far as his 
labours extended, as a fervent, useful, and successful 
preacher of the gospel. 

" His judgment of mankind was such as to give 
him a marked superiority, in this respect, over his 
contemporaries, and greatly aided him in his minis- 
terial functions. He was scarcely ever mistaken in 
the character of a man with whom he conversed, 
though it was but for a few hours. He had an in- 
dependent mind, which was seldom satisfied on im- 
portant subjects without the best evidence that was 
to be had. His manner was remarkably impres- 
sive ; and his sermons, although seldom polished, 
were generally delivered with such indescribable 
power, that he was truly an able and a successful 
minister of the New Testament. He could say 
things from the pulpit, which if said by almost any 
other man, would have been thought a violation of 
propriety. But by him they were delivered in a 
manner so peculiar to himself, and so extremely im- 
pressive, that they seldom failed to please and to in- 



THE REV. WM. TENNBNT, JK. 181 

Struct. As an instance of this the following anec- 
dote is given, of the truth of which the writer was 
a witness. 

" Mr. Tennent was passing through a town in the 
state of New Jersey, in which he was a stranger, 
and had never preached, and stopping at a friend^s 
house to dine, was informed, that it was a day of 
fasting and prayer in the congregation, on account 
of a very remarkable and severe drought, which 
threatened the most dangerous consequences to the 
fruits of the earth. His friend had just returned 
from church, and the intermission was but half an 
hour. Mr. Tennent was requested to preach, and 
with great difficulty consented, as he wished to pro- 
ceed on his journey. At church, the people were 
surprised to see a preacher, wholly unknown to 
them, and entirely unexpected, ascend the pulpit. 
His whole appearance, being in a travelling dress, 
covered with dust, wearing an old fashioned large 
wig, discoloured like his clothes, and a long meagre 
visage, engaged their attention, and excited their 
curiosity. On his rising up, instead of beginning to 
pray, as was the usual practice, he looked around 
the congregation, with a piercing eye and earnest 
attention, and after a minute^s profound silence, he 
addressed them with great solemnity in the follow- 
ing words : < My beloved brethren ! I am told you 
have come here to-day to fast and pray ; a very 
good work indeed^ provided you have come with a 



189 THE RET. WM. TEKNENT, JR. 

sincere desire to glorify Grod thereby. But if your 
design is merely to comply with a customary prac- 
tice, or with the wish of your church officers, you 
are guilty of the greatest folly imaginable, as you 
had much better have staid at home and earned 
your three shillings and six pence.* But if your 
minds are indeed impressed with the solemnity of 
the occasion, and you are really desirous of hum- 
bling yourselves before Almighty God, your heaven- 
ly Father, come, join with me, and let us pray.* 
This had an effect so uncommon and extraordinary 
on the congregation, that the utmost seriousness was 
universally manifested. The prayer and the ser- 
mon added greatly to the impressions already made^ 
and tended to rouse the attention, influence the mind 
command the aflections, and increase the temper 
which had been so happily produced. Many had 
reason to bless God for his unexpected visit, and to 
reckon this day one of the happiest of their lives.t 

* " At that time, the stated price for a day's labour. 

t " The writer having requested of the present Rev. Dr. 
William M. Tennent a written account of an anecdote rela- 
tive to his uncle, which he had once heard him repeat ver- 
bally, received in reply the following letter : 

" AhingtoTiy January lliA, 1806. 
" Sir, 
" The anecdote of my venerable relative, the Rev. Wil- 
liam Tennent, of Freehold, which you wished me to send 
to you, is as follows ; 

'* During the great revival of religion, which took place 
under the ministry of Mr. Whitefield» and others distin- 






THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 183 

"While on this subject, we may introduce an- 
other anecdote of this wonderful man, to show the 
dealings of God with him, and the deep contempla- 
tions of his mind. He was attending the duties of 
the Lord's day in his own congregation as usual, 
where the custom was to have morning and even- 

guished for their piety and zeal at that period, Mr. Tennent 
was laboriously active, and much engaged to help forward 
the work ; in the performance of which he met with sirongf 
and powerful temptations. The following is related as re- 
ceived in substance, from his own lips, and may be consid- 
ered as extraordinary and singularly striking. 

" On the evening preceding public worship, which was 
to be attended the next day, he selected a subject for the 
discourse which was to be delivered, and made some pro- 
gress in his preparations. In the morning, he resumed the 
same subject, wiih an intention to extend his thoughts fur- 
ther on it, but was presently assaulted with a temptation, 
that the Bible which he then held in his hand was not of 
divine authority, but the invention of man. He instantly 
endeavoured to repel the temptation by prayer, but his en- 
deavours proved unavailing. The temptation continued, 
and fastened upon him with greater strength, as the time 
advanced for public service. He lost all the thoughts which 
he had on his subject the preceding evening. He tried 
other subjects, but could get nothing for the people. The 
whole book of God, under that distressing state of mind, 
was a sealed book to him ; and to add to his affliction, he 
was, to use his own words, * shut vp in prayerJ* A cloud, 
dark as that of Egypt, oppressed his mind. 

"Thus agonized in spirit, he proceeded to the church 
where he found a large congregation assembled, and wait- 
ing to hear the word ; and then it was, he observed, that ho 
was more deeply distressed than ever, and especially for the 
dishonour which he feared would fall upon religion, through 
him, that day. He resolved, however, to attempt the eer- 



184 THE REV. WM. TEKNENT, JB. 

ing service with only a half hour's intermission, to 
relieve the attention. He had preached in the 
morning, and in the intermission had walked into 
the woods for meditation, the weather behig warm. 
He was reflecting on the infinite wisdom of God, as 
manifested in all his works, and particularly in the 
wonderful method of salvation, through the death 
and sufferings of his beloved Son. This subject 
suddenly opened on his mind with such a flood of 
light, that his views of the glory, and the infinite 

rice. He introddced it by singing a 'psalm, during which 
time his agitations were increased to the highest degree. 
When the moment for prayer commenced, he arose, as one 
in the most perilous and painful situation, and with arms 
extended to the heavens, began with this outcry, *Lord have 
mercy upon meP Upon the utterance of this petition, he 
was heard ; the thick cloud instantly broke away, and an 
unspeakably joyful light shone in upon his soul, so that his 
spirit seemed to be caught up to the heavens, and he felt as 
though he saw God, as Moses did on the Mount, face to 
face, and was carried forth to him, with an enlargement 
greater than he had ever before experienced, and on every 
page of the scriptures saw his divinity inscribed in brightest 
colours. The result was a deep solemnity on the face of 
the whole congregation, and the house at the end of the 
prayer was a Bochim. He gave them the subject ot his 
evening meditations, which was brought to his full remem- 
brance, with an overflowing abundance of other weighty 
and solemn matter. The Lord blessed the discourse, so 
that it proved the happy means of the conversion of about 
thirty persons. This day he spoke of, ever afterwards, at 
kis harvest-day. 

" I am, your's with esteem, 

•* WILLUM M. TENNENT." 



THX REV, WM. TENNENTy JB, 185 

majesty of Jehovah, were so inexpressibly great as 
entirely to overwhelm him, and he fell, almost life- 
less, to the ground. When he had revived a Uttle, 
all he could do was to raise a fervent prayer that 
God would withdraw himself from him, or that he 
must perish under a view of his ineffable glory. 
When able to reflect on his situation, he could not 
but abhor himself as a weak and despicable worm, 
and seemed to be overcome with astonishment, that 
a creature so unworthy and insufficient, had ever 
dared to attempt the instruction of his fellow-men 
in the nature and attributes of so glorious a Being. 
Overstaying his usual time, some of his elders went 
in search of him, and found him prostrate on the 
ground, unable to rise, and incapable of informing 
them of the cause. They raised him up, and after 
some time brought him to the church, and sup- 
ported him to the pulpit, which he ascended on his 
hands and knees, to the no small astonishment of 
the congregation. He remained silent a considera- 
ble time, earnestly supplicating Almighty God (as 
he told the writer) to hide himself from him, that 
he might be enabled to address his people, who 
were by this time lost in wonder to know what had 
produced this uncommon event. His prayers were 
heard, and he became able to stand up, by holding 
the desk. He now began the most affecting and 
pathetic address that the congregation had ever re- 
ceived from him. He gave a surprising account of 



186 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 

the views he had, of the infinite wisdom of God, 
and greatly deplored his own incapacity to speak to 
them concerning a being so infinitely glorious be- 
yond all his powers of description. He attempted 
to show something of what had been discovered to 
him of the astonishing wisdom of Jehovah, of which 
it was impossible for human nature to form adequate 
conceptions. He then broke out into so fervent and 
expressive a prayer, as greatly to surprise the congre- 
gation, and draw tears from every eye. A sermon 
followed, that continued the solemn scene, and made 
very lasting impressions on all the hearers.* 

"The great increase of communicants in his 
church was a good evidence of his pastoral care and 
powerful preaching, as it exceeded that of most 
churches in the synod. But his labours were not 
confined to the pulpit. He was indefatigable in his 
endeavours to communicate, in private families, a 
savour of the knowledge of spiritual and divine 
things. In his parochial visits, he used regularly to 
go through his congregation in order, so as to carry 
the unsearchable riches of Christ to every house. 
He earnestly pressed it on the conscience of parents 

* Mr. Tennent did not confine himself to any particular 
length in his sermons, but regulated this very much by his 
feelings. The late Rev. Dr. Spring of Newburyport, in- 
formed the editor, that he and other students of Nassau Hall 
walked twenty miles to hear him preach, and the sermon, 
measured by the watch, was no more than thirteen minutes, 
in the delivery. 



THE REV. WM. TENNEHT, JH. l87 

to instruct their children at home by plain and easy 
questions, so as gradually to expand their young 
minds, and prepare them for the reception of the 
more practical doctrines of the gospel. In this, Mr. 
Tennent has presented an excellent example to his 
brethren in the ministry ; for certain it is, that more 
good may be done in a congregation, by this domes- 
tic mode of instruction, than any one can imagine, 
who has not made the trial. Children and servants 
are in this way prepared for the teachings of the 
sanctuary, and to reap the full benefit of the word 
publicly preached. He made it a practice in all 
these visits to enforce practical religion on all, high 
and low, rich and poor, young and old, master and 
servant. To this he was particularly attentive, it 
being a favourite observation with him, Uhat he 
loved a religion that a man could live by.' 

a ]vjr Tennent carefully avoided the discussion of 
controversial subjects, unless specially called to it by 
particular circumstances, and then he was ever ready 
to assign the reason of his faith. The following 
occurrence will show the general state of his mind 
and feelings in regard to such subjects. A couple of 
young clergymen, visiting at his house, entered into 
a dispute on the question, at that time much contro- 
verted in New England, whether faith or repentance 
were first in order, in the conversion of a sinner. 
Not being able to determine the point, they agreed 
to make Mr. Tennent their lunpire, and to dispute 



188 THE REV. WM. TENirXNT, JH. 

the subject at length before him. He accepted the 
proposal, and, after a solemn debate for some lime, 
his opinion being asked, he very gravely took his 
pipe from his mouth, looked out of his window, 
pointed to a man ploughing on a hill at some dis- 
tance, and asked the young clergymen, if they knew 
that man : on their answering in the negative, he 
told them it was one of his elders, who, to his 
full conviction, had been a sincere Christian for more 
than thirty years. ^Now,' said Mr. Tennent, «ask 
him, whether faith or repentance came first, what 
do you think he would say V They said, they could 
not tell. ' Then,' says he, < I will tell you : he would 
say, that he cared not which came first, but that he 
had got them both. Now, my friends,' he added, 
Y be careful that you have both a true faith, and a 
{sincere repentance, and do not be greatly troubled 
I which comes first.' It is not, however, to be sup- 
i posed by this, that Mr. Tennent was unfriendly to a 
deep and accurate examination of all important 
theological doctrines. There were few men more 
earnest than he, to have young clergymen well 
instructed and thoroughly furnished for their work. 
This, indeed, was an object on which his heart was 
much set, and which he exerted himself greatly to 
promote. 

" Mr. Tennent was remarkably distinguished for a 
pointed attention to the particular circumstances and 
situation of the afflicted, either in body or mind, and 



THE RJ9V. WM. TENNENT, IB. 189 

would visit them with as much care and attention as 
a physician, and frequently indeed proved an able 
one, to both soul and body. But his greatest talent 
was that of a peace-maker, which he possessed in so 
eminent a degree, that probably none have exceed- 
ed, and very few have equalled him in it. He was 
sent for, &r and near, to settle disputes, and heal 
difficulties, which arose in congregations ; and, hap- 
pily for those concerned, he was generally successful. 
Indeed, he seldom would relinquish his object till he 
had accomplished it. 

" But while this man of God was thus successful 
in promoting the best interests of his fellow creatures, 
and advancing the glory of his Lord and Master, 
the great enemy of mankind was not likely to 
observe the destruction of his kingdom without 
making an effort to prevent it. As he assailed our 
blessed Saviour, in the days of his flesh, with all his 
art and all his power, so has he always made the 
faithful followers of the Redemer the objects of his 
inveterate malice. If the good man of whom we 
write, was greatly honoured by peculiar communi- 
cations from on high, he was also very often the 
subject of the severe buffetings of that malignant 
and fallen spirit. 

" The time of which we are now speaking was 
remarkable for a great revival of religion, in which 
Mr. Tennent was considerably instrumental, and in 

which a Mr. John Rowland, brought up with Mr. 

M 



190 THS REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 

Tennent at the Log College, was also very lemarK- 
able for his successful preachmg, among all ranks of 
people. Possessing a commanding eloquence, as 
well as other estimable qualities, he .became very 
popular, and was much celebrated tliroughout the 
country. His celebrity and success were subjects 
of very serious regret to many careless worldlings, 
who placed all their happiness in the enjoyment of 
temporal objects, and considered and represented 
Mr. Rowland and his brethren as fanatics and 
hypocrites. Tliis was specially applicable to many 
of the great men of the then province of New Jer- 
sey, and particularly to the Chief Justice, who was 
well known for his disbelief of revelation. There 
was, at this time, prowling through the country, a 
noted man by the name of Tom Bell, whose know- 
ledge and understanding were very considerable, 
and who greatly excelled in low art and cunning. 
His mind was totally debased, and* his whole con- 
duct betrayed a soul capable of descending to every 
species of iniquity. In all the arts of theft, robbery, 
fraud, deception, and defamation, he. was so deeply 
skilled, and so thoroughly practised, that it is be- 
lieved, he never had his equal in this country. He 
had been indicted in almost every one of the middle 
colonies; but his ingenuity and cunning always 
enabled him to escape punishment. This man un- 
happily resembled Mr. Rowland, in his external 



THE REV. WM, TENNENT, JK. 191 

appearance, so as hardly to be known from Iiim, 
without the most careful examination. 

" It so happened, that Tom Bell arrived gne 
evening, at a tavern in Princeton, dressed in a dark, 
parson's gray frock. On his entering the tavern, 
about dusk, the late John Stockton, Esq., of that 
town, a pious and respectable man, to whom Mr. 
Rowland was well known, went up to Bell, and ad- 
dressed him as Mr. Rowland, and was inviting hina 
to go home with him. Bell assured him of his mis- 
take. It was with some difficulty that Mr, Stocktoa 
acknowledged liis error, and then informed Bell, that 
it had arisen from his great resemblance to Mr, Row- 
land. This hint was sufficient for tlie prolific genius 
of that notorious impostor. The next day. Bell 
went into the county of Hunterdon, and stopped in a 
congregation where Mr. Rowland had formerly 
preached once or twice, but where he was not inti- 
mately known. Here he met with a member of the 
congregation, to whom he introduced himself as the 
Rev. Mr. Rowland, who had preached to them soma 
time before. This gentleman immediately invited 
him to his house, to spend the week ; and begged 
him, as the people were without a minister, to 
preach for them on tlie next Sabbath, to which Bell 
agreed, and notice was accordingly given to the 
neighbourhood. The impostor was treated with 
every mark of attention and respect ; and a private 

room was assigned to iiim, as a study, to prepare for 

M3 



193 THE RET. VYM. TENNEJTT, JB. 

the Sabbath. The sacred day arrived, and he was 
invited to ride to church with the ladies in the family 
wagon, and the master of the house accompanied 
them on an elegant horse. When they had arrived 
near the church, Bell on a sudden discovered, that 
he had left his notes in his study, and proposed to 
ride back for them on the fine horse, by which 
means he should be able to return in time for the 
service. This proposal was instantly agreed to, and 
Bell mounted the horse, returned to the house, rifled 
the desk of his host, and made off with the horse. 
Wherever he stopped, he called himself the Rev. 
John Rowland. 

*< At the time this event took place, Messrs. Tennent 
and Rowland had gone into Pennsylvania, or Mary- 
land, with Mr. Joshua Anderson, and Mr. Benjamin 
Stevens, (both members of a church contiguous to 
that where Bell had practised his fraud) on business 
of a religious nature. Soon after their return, Mr. 
Rowland was charged with the above robbery : he 
gave bonds to appear at the court at Trenton, and 
the affair made a great noise throughout the colony. 
At the court of oyer and terminer, the judge charged 
the grand jury on the subject with great severity. 
After long consideration, the jury returned into court 
without finding a bill. The judge reproved them, 
in an angry manner, and ordered them out again. 
They again returned without finding a bill, and were 
again sent out with threatenings of severe punish* 



THE KEV. WM. Tfil^NfiNT, Sfi. 199 

ment if they persisted in their refusal. At last they 
agreed, and brought in a bill for the alleged crime. 
On the trial, Messrs. Tenhent, Anderson, and Ste- 
vens, appeared as witnesses, and fully proved an 
alibi in ffivour of Mr. Rowland, by swearing, that 
on the very day on which thp robbery was commit- 
ted, they were with Mr. Rowland, and heard him 
preach in Pennsylvania or Maryland. The jury 
accordingly acquitted Kim without hesitation, to the 
great disappointment and mortification of his prose- 
cutors, and of many other enemies to the great 
revival of religion that had recently taken place ; 
but to the great joy of the serious and well dis- 
posed. 

<*The spirits hostile to the spread of the gospel were 
not, however, so easily overcome. In their view, 
an opportunity was now presented, favourable for 
inflicting a deep wound on the cause of Christianity > 
and, as if urged on by the malice of man's great 
enemy, they resolved that no means should be left 
untried, no arts imemployed, for the destruction of 
these distinguished servants of God. Many and 
various were the circumstances which still contri- 
buted to inspire them with hopes of success. The 
testimony of the person who had been robbed, was 
positive that Mr. Rowland was the robber ; and this 
testimony was corroborated by that of a number of 
individuals who had seen Tom Bell personating Mr. 

Rowland^ using his name, and in possession of the 

Md 



194 THE REV. WM. TEXNENT, JK. 

horse. These sons of Belial had been able^.ttfler 
great industry used for the purpose, to collect amass of 
evidence of this kind, which they considered as esta- 
blishing the fact; but Mr. Rowland was now out of 
their power by the verdict of not gtiilty. Their 
vengeance, therefore, was directed against the wit- 
nesses by whose testimony he had been cleared; 
and, they were accordingly arraigned for pequry, 
before a court of quarter sessions, in the county ; 
and the grand jury received a strict charge, the plain 
import of which was, that these good men ought to 
be indicted. After an examination of the testimony 
on one side only, as is the custom in such cases, the 
grand jury did, accordingly, find bills of indictment 
against Messrs. Tennent, Anderson^ and Stevens, for 
wilful and corrupt perjury. Their enemies, and the 
enemies of the gospel, now .began to triumph. 
They gloried in the belief, that an indelible stairs 
would be fixed on the professors of religion, and of 
consequence on religion itself; and that this new 
light y by which they denominated all appearance of 
piety, would soon be extinguished for ever. 

" These indictments were removed to the supreme 
court ; and poor Mr. Anderson, living in the county, 
and conscious of his entire innocence, could not 
brook the idea of lying under the odium of the 
hateful crimeofperjury,he,therefore,demandedatrial 
at the first comt of oyer and terminer. This proved 
most seriously injurious to him, for he Was pro- 



THE REV. WM. TENKENT, JR. 195 

nounced guilty, and most cruelly and unjustly con- 
denmed to stand one hour on the court-house steps, 
with a paper on his breast, whereon was written in 
large letters, < This is for wilful and corrupt perjury ;' 
which sentence was executed upon liim. 

" Messrs. Tennent and Stevens were summoned to 
appear at the next court ; and attended accordingly, 
depending on the aid of Mr. John Coxe, an eminent 
lawyer, who had been previously employed to con- 
duct their defence. As Mr. Tennent was wholly 
unacquainted with the nature of forensic litigation, 
and did not know of any person living who could 
prove his innocence, (all the persons who were with 
him being indicted) his only resource and consola- 
tion was, to commit himself to the divine will, and 
if he must suffer, to take it as from the hand of 
God, who, he well knew, could make even the 
wrath of man to praise him ;* and considering it as 
probable that he might suffer, he had prepared a 
sermon to be preached from the pillory, if that 
should be his fate. On his arrival at Trenton, he 
found the famous Mr. Smith, of New York, father 
of the late chief justice of Canada, one of the ablest 
lawyers in America, and of a religious character, 
who had volimtarily attended to aid in his defence ; 
also his brother Gilbert, who was now settled in the 

* ''His affectionate congregation felt deeply interested in his 
critical situation, and kept a day of fasting and prayer on the 
occasion. 



196 THS REV. WM. TENNEUT, JR. 

pastoral charge of the second Presbyterian church, 
in Philadelphia, and who brought Mr. John Kin- 
sey, one of the first counsellors of that city, for the 
same purpose. Messrs. Tennent and Stevens met these 
gentlemen at Mr. Coxe^s, the morning before the 
trial was to come on. Mr. Coxe requested that they 
would bring in their witnesses, that they might ex- 
amine them previously to their going into court. 
Mr. Tennent answered, that he did not know of any 
witnesses but God and his own conscience. Mr. 
Coxe replied, * If you have no witnesses, sir, the trial 
must be put off; otherwise you most certainly will 
be convicted. You well know the strong testimony 
that will be brought against you, and the exertions 
that are making to accomplish your ruin.' Mr. 
Tennent replied, * I am sensible of all this, yet it 
never shall be said that I have delayed the trial, or 
been afraid to meet the justice of my country, I 
know my own innocence, and that God whose I am, 
and whom I serve, will never suffer me to fall by 
these snares of the devil, or by the wicked machina- 
tions of his agents or servants. Therefore, gentle- 
men, go on to the trial.' Messrs. Smith and Kinsey, 
who were both religious men, told him that his con- 
fidence and trust in God, as a Christian minister of 
the gospel, was well founded, and before a heavenly 
tribunal would be all-important to him ; but assured 
him it would not avail in an earthly court, and 
urged his consent to put off the trial, Mr. Tennent 



THE REV. WM. TENNENT, J», 197 

continued inflexible in his refusal; on which Mr. 
Coxe told him, that since he was determined to go 
to trial, he had the satisfaction of informing him, 
that they had discovered a flaw in the indictment, 
which might prove favourable to him on a demur- 
rer. He asked for an explanation, and on finding 
that it was to admit the fact in a legal point of view, 
and rest on the law arising from it, Mr. Tennent 
broke out with great vehemence, saying that this 
was another snare of the devil, and before he would 
consent to it he would sufler death. He assured his 
counsel, that his confidence in God was so strong, 
and his assurance that he would bring about his 
deliverance in some way or other, was so great, that 
he did not wish them to delay the trial for a mo- 
ment. 

"Mr. Stevens, whose faith was not of this de- 
scription, and who was bowed down to the ground 
under the most gloomy apprehensions of sufl^ering, 
as his neighbour Mr. Anderson had done, eagerly 
seized the opportunity of escape that was ofiered, 
and was afterwards discharged on the exception. 

« Mr. Coxe still urged putting off" the trial, charg- 
ing Mr. Tennent with acting the part rather of a 
wild enthusiast, than of a meek and prudent Chris- 
tian ; but he insisted that they should proceed, and 
left them in astonishment, not knowing how to act, 
when the bell summoned them to court. 

" Mr. Tennent had not walked far in the street. 



198 THE REV. WM. TEXNBNT, JR, 

before he met a man and his wife, who stopped 
him, and asked if his name was not Tennent. He 
answered in the affirmative, and begged to know if 
they had any business with him- The man repUed, 
« you best know.' He told his name, and said that 
he was from a certain place (which he mentioned) 
in Pennsylvania or Maryland; that Messrs. Rowland 
Tennent, Anderson, and Stevens, had lodged either 
at his house, or in a house wherein he and his wife? 
had been servants, (it is not now certain which) at 
a particular time, which he named ; that on the fol- 
lowing day they had heard Messrs. Tennent and 
Rowland preach; that some nights before they left 
home, he and his wife waked out of a sound sleep, 
and each told the other a dream which had just 
occurred, and which proved to be the same in 
substance, to wit, that he, Mr. Tennent, at Tren- 
ton, was in the greatest possible distress, and that 
it was in their power and their's only, to relieve 
him. Considering it as a remarkable dream only, 
they again went to sleep, and it was twice repeated, 
precisely in the same manner, to both of them. 
This made so deep an impression on their minds, 
that they set oS, and here they were, and woidd 
know of him what they were to do. Mr. Tennent 
immediately went with them to the court house, 
and his counsel, on examining the man and his wife 
and finding their testimony to be full to the purpose, 
were, as they well might be, in perfect astonish- 



THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JS. 199 

ment. Before the trial began, another person, of a 
low character, called on Mr. Tennent, and told him 
that he was so harrassed in conscience, for the part 
he had been acting in this prosecution, that he could 
get no rest till he had determined to come and make 
a full confession. He sent this man to his counsel 
also. Soon after, Mr. Stockton from Princeton ap- 
peared, and added his testimony. In short, they 
went to trial, and notwithstanding the utmost exer- 
tions of the ablest counsel, who had been employed 
to aid the attorney-general against Mr. Tennent, the 
advocates on his side so traced every movement of 
the defendant on the Saturday, Sunday, and Mon- 
day, in question, and satisfied the jury so perfectly 
on the subject, that they did not hesitate honourably 
to acquit Mr. Tennent, by their unanimous verdict 
of not guilty y to the great confusion and mortifica- 
tion of his numerous opposers. Mr. Tennent as- 
sured the writer of this, that during the whole of 
this business, his spirits never failed him, and that 
he contemplated the possibility of his suffering so 
infamous a punishment, as standing in the pillory, 
without dismay, and had made preparation, and 
was fully determmed, to deliver a sermon to the 
people in that situation, if he should be placed in it. 
« He went from Trenton to Philadelphia with his 
brother, and on his return, as he was rising the hill 
at the entrance of Trenton, without reflecting on 
what had happened, he accidentally cast his eyes 



200 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 

on the pillory, which suddenly so filled him with 
horror, as completely to unman him, and it was 
with great difl5.culty that he kept himself from fall- 
ing from his horse. He reached the tavern door in 
considerable danger, was obliged to be assisted to 
dismount, and it was some time before he could so 
get the better of his fears and confusion, as to pro- 
ceed on his journey. Such is the constitution of the 
himian mind ! It will often resist, with unshaken 
firmness, the severest external pressure and violence ; 
and sometimes it yields without reason, when it has 
nothing to fear. Or, should we not rather say, such 
is the support which God sometimes affords to his 
people hi the time of their necessity, and such the 
manner in which he leaves them to feel their own 
weakness when that necessity is past, that all the 
praise may be given where alone it is due ? 

"The writer sincerely rejoices, that though a 
number of the extraordinary incidents in the life of 
Mr. Tennent cannot be vouched by public testimo- 
ny and authentic documents, yet the singular man- 
ner in which a gracious God did appear for this his 
faithful servant in the time of that distress which 
has just been noticed, is a matter of public notoriety, 
and capable of being verified by the most unques- 
tionable testimony and records. 

" This special instance of the interference of the 
righteous judge of all the earth ought to yield con- 
solation to pious people in seasons of great difficulty 



THE KIV. WM. TENNKNT, JR. Ml 

and distress, where there is. none that seems able to 
deliver them. Yet it ought to afford no encourage- 
ment to the enthusiast, who refuses to use the 
means of preservation and deliverance which God 
puts in his power. True confidence in God is al- 
ways accompanied with the use of all lawful means, 
and with the rejection of all that are unlawful. It 
consists in an unshaken belief, that while right 
means are used, God will give that issue which 
shall be most for his glory and his people'ij good. 
The extraordinary occurrence here recorded may 
also serve as a solemn warning to the enemies of 
God's people, and to the advocates of infidelity, not 
to strive by wicked and deep laid machinations to 
oppose the success of the gospel, nor to attempt to 
injure the persons and characters of those faithful 
servants of the Most High, whom sooner or later he 
will vindicate to the unspeakable confusion of all 
who have persecuted and traduced them. 

" Mr. Tennent was a man of the most scrupulous 
integrity, and though of a very grave and solemn 
deportment, he had a remarkably cheerful disposi- 
tion, and generally commimicated his instructions 
with so much ease and pleasantry, as greatly to gain 
the confidence and affection of all with whom he 
conversed, especially of children and young people. 
In all his intercourse with strangers and men of the 
world, he so managed his conversation, that, while 
he seldom neglected a proper opportimity to impress 



302 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JTE. 

the mind with serious things, he always made them 
covet his company, rather than avoid it ; well know- 
ing that there is a time for all things, and that even 
instruction and reproof, to be useful, must be pru- 
dently and seasonably given, 

** An instance of this disposition occurred in Vir- 
ginia. The late Rev. Mr. Samuel Blair and Mr. 
Tennent were sent by the synod on a mission into 
that province. They stopped one evening at a 
tavern for the night, where they found a number of 
guests, with whom they supped in a common room. 
After the table was cleared, our missionaries with- 
drew from it. Cards were then called for, and the 
landlord brought in a pack and laid them on the 
table. One of the gentlemen very politely asked 
the missionaries if they would not take a cut with 
them, not knowing that they were clergymen. Mr. 
Tennent very pleasantly answered, <With all my 
heart, gentlemen, if you can convince us, that there- 
by we can serve our master's cause, or contribute 
any thing towards the success of our mission.' This 
drew some smart reply from the gentleman, when 
Mr. T, with solemnity added, < We are ministers of 
the gospel of Jesus Christ. We profess ourselves 
his servants ; we are sent on his business, which is 
to persuade mankind to repent of their sins, to turn 
from them, and to accept of that happiness and sal- 
vation which is offered in the gospel.' This very 
unexpected reply, delivered in a very tender thoi^h 



THS REV. WM. TENNENT, JB. 203 

solemn manner, and with great apparent sincerity, 
so engaged the gentlemen's attention, that the cards 
were laid aside, and an opportunity was afforded, 
and cheerfully embraced, for explaining in a socia- 
ble conversation, during the rest of the evening, 
some of the leading and most important doctrines of 
the gospel, to the satisfaction and apparent edifica- 
tion of the hearers. 

" Resignation to the will of God in all his dispen- 
sations, however dark and afflictive, was among the 
excellent graces that adorned the character of this 
man of God. He had been tried in the course of 
God's providence in various ways; but domestic 
afflictions, as yet, had not been laid upon him. The 
time, however, was now come when his character 
was to be brightened by a severe test of his resigna- 
tion and obedience, a test attended with many pe- 
culiarly distressing circumstances. His youngest 
son, who was one of the handsomest of men, had 
just come into public life ; had commenced the prac- 
tice of physic; was married, and had one child. 
To the great distress of the parents, he discovered, 
though possessed of the sweetest temper and most 
agreeable manners, no regard to the things that be- 
longed to his eternal peace. Wholly negligent of 
religion, he indulged without restraint in the gaiety 
and follies of the world. The pious father was in- 
cessant at the throne of grace in behalf of his dis- 
sipated son ; and was continually entertaining hopes 



204 THX REV. WM. TENNEST, JR. 

that Grod would, by the influences of his Spirit, ar- 
rest him in his career, and bring liim into the church 
of Christ, before his own summons should arrive ; 
that he might die in peace, under the consoUng hope 
of meeting this dear child in a better world. God, 
however, had determined otherwise ; and the son, 
while engaged in inoculating a number of persons, 
in a house he had obtained for the purpose, near his 
father^s neighbourhood, was seized in an unusually 
violent manner, with a raging fever. With the dis- 
order, he was brought to a sudden and alarming 
view of his lost condition by nature, and the griev- 
ous transgressions of his past life. His sins were 
all set in dread array against him. A horrible dark- 
ness, and an awful dread of the eternal displeasure 
of Jehovah, fell on him, so as to make him the 
dreadful example of a convicted sinner, trembling 
imder the confounding presence of an angry God. 
The affectionate and pious father was constantly in 
prayer and supplication, that God would have mercy 
upon him. He seldom left the side of his bed. For 
many days the fever raged with unabated fury; 
but the immediate distresses which it occasioned, 
were lost or forgotten in the severer pains of an 
awakened conscience. Such was the height to 
wjjich his anguish at last arose, that the bed on 
which he lay was shaken by the violent and united 
convulsions of mind and body. The parents were 
touched to the quick ; and their unqualified submis-^ 



THE RXV. WM. TENNENT; JR. 205 

sion to ^God, as a sovereign Grod, was put to the 
most rigorous proof. But in due time they came 
out of the furnace, as gold tried in the fire. God, in 
his infinite and condescending grace and mercy, was 
at last pleased, in some measure, to hear the many 
prayers put up by the parents, and many pious 
friends, for the relief of the poor sufferer. His views 
of the lost state of man by nature ; of the only 
means of salvation, through the death and sufferings 
of the Saviour ; of the necessity of the inward re- 
generating grace of the Holy Spirit, became clear 
and consistent, and the importance of a practical ac- 
quaintance with these things was deeply and ration- 
ally impressed on liis mind. He now saw, that sal- 
vation which he had deemed almost or altogether 
hopeless to him, was possible. His mind became 
calm, and he attended to religious instruction and 
advice. In a short time he began to give as much 
evidence of a change of heart as a death-bed repen- 
tance (rarely to be greatly relied on) can easily af- 
ford. He sent for his companions in iniquity, and, 
notwithstanding his disorder, exerted himself to the 
utmost to address them, which he did in the most 
solemn, awful, and impressive manner, as a person, 
who, by the infinite mercy of a prayer-hearing God, 
had been delivered from a hell gaping to receive 
him. He besought them, by all the terrors of ever- 
lasting destruction, by all the love they ought to 
bear to their own immortal souls ; by the love of 



f06 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JH. 

a crucified Jesus, who poured out his soul unto 
death, that they might live forever ; by his own aw- 
ful sufferings and terrible example ; that they would 
repent and turn to God. This happy change was a 
reviving cordial to the distressed andsuflfering father. 
His soul was overjoyed, and his mouth was full of 
the praises of redeeming love. His mind and spirits 
were hereby prepared, with true resignation, to sur- 
render the son of his advanced age to the Grod who 
gave him. After a few days more of severe suffer- 
ing in body, but rejoicing in mind, the son was re- 
moved from time to eternity. There being no min- 
ister in the neighborhood, the father undertook to 
preach a funeral sermon. All the son's old compan- 
ions that could be sent to, were especially invited, 
and the old gentleman preached in such a manner, 
with a particular address to the young men, as to 
astonish every hearer ; and while the seriously in- 
clined wondered and adored, the careless were con- 
founded and greatly alarmed. 

" Scarcely had Mr. Tennent got over this heavy af- 
fliction, and returned to an active and useful course 
of life for a few years, when God again called him 
to another severe and arduous struggle of the same 
nature. His eldest son, John, promised fair to make 
a distinguished figure in life, had possessed a large 
share in the affections of both father and mother, 
and was more dear to their hearts than ever, since 
the death of his brother. It so happened, that the 



THE HEV. WM. TENNENT, JH. 207 

father was called to New-York to heal some differ- 
ences between the members of the church there. — 
ITie next morning after his arrival, he went into a 
bookstore, when one of the ministers of the Episco- 
pal church came in, and on being introduced to him, 
after the common salutations, told him he condoled 
with him on the death of his eldest son in the West-In- 
dies. The old gentleman was at first struck dumb. 
With difficulty he soon inquired how the news came ; 
being informed that it was by a circuitous route, he 
suddenly turned, and said, ^The will of the Lord be 
done.' The clergyman observed, that it was happy 
for him to be able so cordially to submit to it. Mr. 
Tennent replied, *The Lord is my God, his will be 
done.' On being asked by the bookseller, who was 
his particular friend, to retire into the house, and 
endeavour to settle his mind, he answered, * I am 
come on the Lord's business ; my duty requires that 
I should finish it ; when that is done I shall have 
time enough to mourn for my son.' He immediate- 
ly set off to attend his appointment, finished the 
business to liis satisfaction, and next day returned 
home, where he foimd that a letter had been re- 
ceived by a neighbour, containing the same informa- 
tion which he had before received. Thus, on the 
most trying occasion, he showed the same submission 
to the allotment of divine providence that was dis- 
coverable in all his former conduct The following 

extract from a letter^ written at this time to the 

N 



2QS THE BEY. WM. TENNENT^ JR. 

writer of this narrative, will show the temper of his 
mind in his own language. < Freehold, March, 
1776. My dear sir, perhaps before this comes to 
hand, you will be informed, that He who gave me 
the honourable epithet of a father, has, in his wise 
and unerring providence, written me childless.* My 
son is dead. This account I had yesterday from a 
letter written to a friend ; the accoimt is so straight 
(though not circumstantial) that I cannot doubt its 
truth. The tender mother has not heard it, nor do 
I intend she shall, until authenticated. This I men- 
tion as a caution to you, in case you should write 
me before the matter is published. Let the dear 
heart have all possible ease, before the load, which 
it is likely will try her life, falls upon her. I know 
her attachment to that child ; his conduct has been 
such as greatly endeared him to us. Our pains and 
expense in his education have been great, but in- 
finitely short of what God has done for him. He 
has, therefore, the best right to him. Should we 
then, were it in our power, obstruct his taking full 
possession of his own property ? God forbid! This, 
sir, through God's goodness, is not only what I say, 
but it is the temper of my soul, for which God only 
deserves the honour. It is now above fifty years 
since my soul resigned itself to God in Jesus Christ. 

* " He seems, in the depth of his distress, to have forgot- 
ten, that he yet had one son left, although he was 800 miles 
distant from him." 



THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JH. 209 

I had then neither son nor daughter ; I was com- 
pletely satisfied with Him, and, blessed be his name, 
I am so now. Have I then reason to cry out as if 
mined ? ! no : on the contrary, I have the ut- 
most reason for thanksgiving, that he has not, in 
righteous judgment, deprived me of himself, in 
whom all fulness dwells. My wife and myself are 
now hastening to childhood ; if spared a few years, 
we shall need one to lead us ; and we shall look to 
you, under God. All the benefit you can expect 
from so doing, will consist in the satisfaction of your 
own mind, that you have helped two old people 
through the last steps of their pilgrimage/ Thus 
did this pious man turn every event of life, however 
afliictive, to the praise and glory of God, and he 
seldom omitted an opportunity of inculcating the 
same disposition on all his acquaintance. 

« When the late Rev. George Whitefield was last in 
this country, Mr. Tennent paid him a visit as he was 
passing through New Jersey. Mr. Whitefield and 
a number of other clergymen, among whom was 
Mr. Tennent, were invited to dinner by a gentleman 
in the neighborhood where the late Mr. William 
Livingston, since governor of New Jersey, resided, 
and who, with several other lay gentlemen, were 
among the guests. After dinner, in the course of an 
easy and pleasant conversation, Mr. Whitefield ad- 
verted to the difficulties attending the gospel min- 
istry, arising from the small success with which their 

N2 



210 THE KEY. WM. TENNEKT, JK. 

labours were crowned. He greatly lamented, that 
all their zeal, activity and fervour availed but little ; 
said, that he was weary with the burdens and fatigues 
of the day ; declared his great consolation was, that 
in a short time his work would be done, when he 
should depart and be with Christ ; that the prospect 
of a speedy deliverance had supported his spirits, or 
that he should, before now, have "simk under his 
labour. He then appealed to the ministers around 
him, if it were not their great comfort that they 
should soon go to rest. They generally assented^ 
excepting Mr. Tennent, who sat next to Mr. White- 
field, in silence ; and by his countenance discovered 
but little pleasure in the conversation. On which, 
Mr. Whitefield turning to him, and tapping him on 
the knee, said, < Well I brother Tennent, you are 
the oldest man amongst us, do you not rejoice to 
think that your time is so near at hand, when you 
will be called home and freed from all the difficul- 
ties attending this chequered scene?' Mr. T. blunt- 
ly answered, ' I have no wish about it.' Mr. W. 
pressed him again; and Mr. T. again answered, 
* No Sir, it is no pleasure to me at all, and if you 
knew your duty, it would be none to you. I have 
nothing to do with death ; my business is to live as 
long as I can — as well as I can — and to serve my 
Lord and Master as faithfully as I can, until he 
shall think proper to call me home.' Mr. W. still 
urged for an explicit answer to his question, in easft 



THX REV. WM. TENNENT, JK. 211 

the time of death were left to his own choice. Mr. 
Tennent repUed, * I have no choice about it ; I am 
God's servant, and h^ve engaged to do his business, 
as long as he pleases to continue me therein. But 
now, brother, let me ask you a question. What do 
you think I would say, if I was to send my man 
Tom into the field to plough; and if at noon I 
should go to the field, and find him lounging under 
a tree, and complaining. < Master the sun is very hot, 
and the ploughing hard and difScult, I am tired and 
weary of the work you have appointed me, and am 
overdone with the heat and biurden of the day ; do 
master let me return home and be discharged from 
this hard service ?* What would I say ? Why, that 
he was an idle, lazy fellow ; that it was his business 
to do the work that I had appointed him, until I, 
the proper judge, should think fit to call him home. 
Or, suppose you had hired a man to serve you faith- 
fully for a given time in a particular service, and 
he should, without any reason on your part, and be- 
fore he had performed half his service, become 
weary of it, and upon every occasion be expressing 
a wish to be discharged, or placed in other circum- 
stances? Would you not call him a wicked and 
slothful servant, and unworthy of the privileges of 
your employ V The mild, pleasant, and Christiatt- 
like manner, in which this reproof was administered, 
rather increased the social harmony and edifying 

conversation of the company ; who became satisfied 

N3 



212 THB REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 

that it was very possible to err even in desiring, 
with undue earnestness, * to depart and be with 
Christ,' which in itself is ^ far better* than to remain 
in this imperfect state ; and that it is the duty of the 
Christian, in this respect, to say, ^ All the days of my 
appointed time will I wait till my change come.' 

"Among Mr. Tennent's qualifications, none were 
more conspicuous than his activity both of body and 
mind. He hated and despised sloth. He was al- 
most always in action — ^never wearied in well-doing, 
nor in serving his friends. His integrity and inde- 
pendence of spirit were observable on the slightest 
acquaintance. He was so great a lover of truth, 
that he could not bear the least aberration from it, 
even in a joke. He was remarkable for his candour 
and liberality of sentiment, with regard to those who 
differed from him in opinion. His hospitality and 
domestic enjoyments were even proverbial. His 
public spirit was always conspicuous, and his attach- 
ment to what he thought the best interests of his 
country, was ardent and inflexible. He took an 
early and decided part with his country in the com- 
mencement of the late revolutionary war. He was 
convinced that she was oppressed, and that her peti- 
tions to the sovereign of the mother country were 
constitutional, loyal, moderate, and reasonable ; that 
the treatment they received, was irrational, tyranni- 
cal, and intolerable. As he made it a rule, however, 
never to carry politics into the pulpit, he had no 



T&X IIEV. WM. TENNENT, X&. 213 

way to manifest his zeal for the public measures, 
but by his private prayers, and by his decided opin- 
ions delivered in private conversations. But, in this 
way, his sentiments became universally known, and 
he was considered as a warm friend to the American 
cause. Notwithstanding these political opinions, 
he was not blind to the errors of his countrymen, 
and especially to their moral and religious conduct. 
The following extract from a letter to the author of 
these sketches, dated Feb. 14, 1775, strongly marks 
the temper of his mind. < My very dear Sir, your 
kind letter came to hand, three days since. Your 
comforts and sorrows are mine in no small degree ; 
I share with you in both ; the tie is such as death 
cannot dissolve. This is a day of darkness in my 
view, and few are in any degree properly aflfected 
with it. I have, through grace, perhaps, as little to 
fear for myself, or mine, as any living. I humbly 
hope we are housed in Jesus ; but I am distressed 
for the nation and land. The ruin of both is awfully 
threatened ; and, though now deferred, may ere long 
be accomplished, unless reformation takes place. It 
behoves every one to cry, < spare thy people, Lord, 
and give not thine heritage to reproach.* I know 
God is merciful ; he has, notwithstanding, disinhe- 
rited a people as dear to him as ever we were, 
whose sins were not more aggravated than ours. 
The Lord can deliver, but have we reason to think 
he will, having told us that he will < wound the head 



214 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JB. 

of his enemies, and the hairy scalps of such who 
go on in their trespasses ?' Is there any appearance 
of reformation ? Yea, is it not Hie reverse ? Are 
not our meetings for the preservation of our liberty, 
often abused by excessive drinking ? &c. &c. Have 
not politico taken place of religion in all our conver- 
sations ? Is it not become unconstitutional (to use 
the vulgar language) to mention God's name in com- 
pany, unless by way of dishonouring him ? Are 
not things sacred neglected by some, and burlesqued 
by others ? Is not the newspaper substituted for the 
Bible, on Lord's days, yea, at church ? What will 
the end of these things be ? Blessed be God, through 
Jesus Christ, He is for a sanctuary.' 

« Mr. Tennent was on a visit, within less than 
twenty miles of New York, when a British frigate 
attempted to pass the batteries, and to proceed up 
the North River, while General Washington lay with 
the American army in the city. A very heavy can- 
nonading took place, which was mistaken by the 
surrounding country for a general attack on our 
army. Mr. Tennent was deeply affected, and after 
a violent struggle within himself, he turned to a 
friend or two present, and said, < Come, while our 
fellow citizens are fighting, let us retire to prayer/ 
They, accordingly, went up into his room, where he 
most devoutly poured out his soul for about half an 
hour, in the most fervent prayers, wrestling with, Grod 
in behalf of his suffering country. 



THE HEV. WM. TENNBNT, JH. 215 

<^In the winter of 1776-7, the British overran 
a great part of the state of New Jersey, and particu- 
larly the county of Monmouth, where a number of 
the inhabitants were in the British interests. Such 
was their apparent power, and the distressed situa- 
tion of the American army, retreating before them, 
that it was generally supposed by the people in the 
country, that the dispute was almost at an end, and 
that all hopes of successful opposition were nearly 
extinguished. A British party arose in the county, 
who seized their fellow citizens, and dragged them 
to a British provost, where they were treated in the 
most cruel manner, as rebels and traitors. Even 
citizens from other parts of the state, who had taken 
refuge in the county, depending on the known hos- 
pitality of the inhabitants, were not respected. In 
this situation, Mr. Tennent very justly thought him- 
self in great danger ; but having no place to flee to 
for safety, he remained at home, conunitting himself 
to the protection of Almighty God. In the month 
of Dec. 1776, a number of the inhabitants came to his 
house, and insisted that he should go to Princeton, 
without delay, and take the benefit of General 
Howe's proclamation, oflfering a pardon to those 
who should seek it within a limited time. He 
refused, till he foimd himself in danger of being 
taken off and committed to a British provost, which 
he well knew, was but another word for a lingering 
death. He also found that, in his present state, his 



216 THI HEV. WM. TENNBWT, JR. 

usefulness as a minister of the gospel was at an end, 
unless he complied with the wishes of the people, 
most of the whigs of influence having fled. Con- 
cluding, that present duty enforced the request 
which was thus urged upon him, he promised to go 
to Princeton. On his way, he lodged at the house 
of a young clergyman, and, on rising in the morn- 
ing, he seemed greatly oppressed in spirit. On be- 
ing asked what troubled him, he answered, with a 
heavy sigh, ^ I am going to do a thing for conscience 
sake, directly against my conscience.' Soon after 
his return home, to the surprise of every body, the 
British quarters at Trenton were beaten up, and a 
British regiment taken at Princeton ; the American 
army again advanced, and took a strong position at 
Morristown, by which the British in their turn, were 
obliged to retreat and contract their lines to Bruns- 
wick and Amboy. The Americans again got pos- 
session of the county of Monmouth, where the 
whigs returned in force. Mr. Tennent's mind was 
greatly oppressed with his untoward situation, and 
he severely blamed his untimely submission. 

" About the latter end of February, or beginning 
of March, 1777, Mr. Tennent was suddenly seized 
Ivith a fever, attended by violent symptoms. He 
sent for his family physician, who was in the act of 
setting off" for the legislature of the state, of which 
he was a member. He called on his patient on his 
«ray, but could spend but a few minutes with him. 



THE RJCV. WM. TENMENT, JR. 217 

He, however, examined carefully into Mr Tennent's 
complaints, and the symptoms attending the disor- 
der. With great candour, the physician informed 
his patient, that the attack appeared unusually vio- 
lent ; that the case required the best medical aid, 
and that it was out of his power to attend him. 
He feared that, at his advanced age, there was not 
strength of nature sufficient to overcome so severe a 
shock, and that his symptoms scarcely admitted of a 
favourable prognostic. The good old man received 
this news with his usual submission to the divine 
will ; for, as he had always considered himself as 
bound for eternity, he had endeavoured so to live, 
that when the summons should come, he would 
have nothing to do but to die. He calmly replied, <I 
am very sensible of the violence of my disorder, 
that it has racked my constitution to an uncommon 
degree, and beyond what I have ever before expe- 
rienced, and that it is accompanied with symptoms 
of approaching dissolution ; but, blessed be God, I 
have no wish to Uve, if it should be his will and 
pleasure to call me hence.' After a moment's 
pause, he seemed to recollect himself, and varied the 
expression thus: < Blessed be God, I have no wish 
to live, if it should be his will and pleasure to call 
me hence, unless it should be to see a happy issue 
to the severe and arduous controversy my country 
is engag^ed in ; but, even in this, the will of the Lord 
be done.' 



21S THB REV. WM. TENN£NT, IB. 

<^ During his whole sickness, he continued per- 
fectly resigned to the divine will, until death was 
swallowed up in victory, on the 8th day of March, 
1777. His body was buried in his own church, at 
Freehold, a numerous concourse of people, com- 
posed, not only of the members of his own congre- 
gation, but of the inhabitants of the whole adjacent 
country, attending his funeral. 

" Mr. Tennent was rather more than six feet high, 
of a spare thin visage, and of an erect carriage. He 
had bright, piercing eyes, a long sharp nose, and a 
long face. His general countenance was grave and 
solemn, but at all times cheerful and pleasant with his 
friends. It may be said of him, with peculiar pro- 
priety, that he appeared, in an extraordinary manner, 
to live above the world, and all its allurements. He 
seemed habitually to have such clear views of spi- 
ritual and heavenly things, as afforded him much of 
the foretaste and enjoyment of them. His faith was 
really and experimentally < the substance of things 
hoped for, and the evidence of things unseen.' 
Literally, his daily walk was with God, and he 
lived * as seeing him who is invisible.' The divine 
presence with him, was frequently manifested in his 
public ministrations, and in his private conduct. 
His ardent soul was seldom satisfied, unless he was 
exerting himself, in some way or other, in public or 
private, in rendering kind offices and effectual ser- 
vices of friendship, both in spiritual and temporal 



THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 219 

things, to his fellow-men. Take him in his whole 
demeanor and conduct, there are few of whom it 
might more emphatically be said, that he lived the 
life and died the death of the righteous. 

"He was well read in divinity,, and was of sound 
orthodox principles. He professed himself a mod- 
erate Calvinist. The doctrines of man's depravity ; 
the atonement of the Saviour ; the absolute necessi- 
ty of the all-powerful influence of the Spirit of God, 
to renew the heart and subdue the will ; all in per- 
fect consistence with the free agency of the sinner, 
were among the leading articles of his faith. These 
doctrines, indeed, were generally interwoven in his 
public discourses, whatever might be the particular 
subject discussed. His success was often answerable 
to his exertions. His people loved him as a father ; 
revered him as the pastor and bishop of their souls ; 
obeyed him as their instructor ; and delighted in his 
company and private conversation as a friend and 
brother. He carefully avoided making a difference 
between his doctrines publicly taught and his pri- 
vate practice. Attending a synod, a few years be- 
fore his death, a strange clergyman, whom he never 
had before seen, was introduced to the synod, and 
asked to preach in the evening. Mr. Tennent at- 
tended, and was much displeased with the sermon. 
As the congregation were going out of the church, 
Mr. Tennent in the crowd, coming up to the preach- 
er, touched him on the shoulder, and said, < My bro- 



220 THE REV. WM, TBNNENT, JR. 

ther, when I preach, I take care to save myself, 
whatever, I do with my congregation.' The clergy- 
man looked behind him with surprise, and seeing a 
very grave man, said, < What do you mean. Sir ?' 
Mr. Tennent answered, ' You have been sending 
your whole congregation, synod and all, to perdi- 
tion, and you have not even saved yourself. When- 
ever I preach, I make it a rule to save myself,' and 
then abruptly left him, without his knowing who 
spoke to him. 

<^ At Mr. Tennent's death, the poor mourned for 
him as their patron, their comforter and support ; 
and the rich lamented over him as their departed 
pastor and friend. The public at large, lost in him 
a firm assertor of the civil and religious interests of 
his country. He was truly a patriot, not in words 
and pretences, not in condemning all who differed 
from him to proscription and death, but in acting in 
such a manner, as would have rendered his coimtry 
most happy, if all had followed his example. He 
insisted on his own rights and freedom of sentiment, 
but he was willing to let others enjoy the same pri- 
vilege ; and he thought it of as much importance to 
live and act well, as to think and speak justly. 

" To conclude these imperfect sketches. May all 
who read the memoirs of this amiable and useful 
man, fervently and constantly beseech that God, 
with whom is the residue of the Spirit, that their 
life may be that of the righteous, so that their latter 



THE BEV. WM. TBNNENT, JB. 221 

end may be like his : and that the Great Head of 
the Church, while he removes faithful and distin- 
guished labourers from the gospel vineyard, may 
raise up others, who shall possess, even a double 
portion of their spirit, and who shall be even more 
successful in winning souls unto Jesus Christ, the 
great bishop of souls/' 



CHAPTER XI. 



REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING NAR- 
RATIVE. 



Mr. Tennent's trance not supernatural — Numerous diseases the cause 
of the phenomena — Case of Susannah Orrendorf — Mohammed — 
Lackinford — The dreams of the witnesses, cannot he accounted for 
on natural principles — God still, occasionally gives admonitory 
dreams. 

It must be acknowledged, that some of the facts 
recorded in the preceding narrative, are of a mar- 
vellous nature ; but we are inclined to believe that 
they all may be accounted for on natural principles, 
except one. The appearance of death, when life is 
not extinguished, but only suspended, has been often 
observed, on the termination of nervous fevers, and in 
epileptic and apoplectic fits. The temporary loss of 
memory on recovery, has also been often observed. 
Persons have been known to lie in one of these tran- 
ces, for weeks together. And there is too much rea- 
son to fear, that many* persons have been buried 
alive, by being prematurely carried to the grave. 
This undoubtedly would have been the imhappy 
case of Mr. Tennent, had not his young friend in- 



223 THE BEY. WM. TENNENT, JR. 

terposed. And as to the happy state of his mind^ 
during this period, and his imagining that he was in 
heaven, it is all very natural, and does not require 
that we should suppose the soul to have been sepa- 
rated from the body. We would not deny, that a 
man through life so highly favoured in receiving ex- 
traordinary manifestations of God's perfections, and 
especially of his love, might, even when in this state 
of apparent death, have been the subject of a gra- 
cious influence, which filled his imagination with the 
rapturous views, which he enjoyed. We are dis- 
posed, however, to admire Mr. Tennent's prudence, 
in not being forward to speak of his experience, du- 
ring this period ; and we do not feel disposed to re- 
gret, that he never committed to writing an account 
of his visions ; or if he did, that his executor never 
could lay his hands on the manuscript. When Paul 
was caught up to Paradise, and heard and saw the 
glory of the third heaven, he uttered not a word res- 
pecting the nature of his vision. He merely said, 
that he "heard unspeakable things, which it is not 
lawful for a man to utter.'' The writer would fur- 
ther remark, that in certain states of the nervous 
system, when the conmion functions of life seem to 
be suspended, it is no uncommon thing for the imagi- 
nation to be strongly affected. In the year 1791, he 
went several miles out his way, in company with 
three distinguished clergymen, to visit a yoimg wo- 
man^ the daughter of a wealthy German farmer^ not 



224 THE ABV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 

far from Hagerstown, Md., who had been for more 
than a year, subject every day, at the same hour, to 
certain epileptic paroxysms, during which, she had 
the appearance of one dead, or in a deep sleep, and 
always came to herself, singing. And professed, 
that, every day, she visited heaven ; and gave a par- 
ticular account of what she saw in the celestial 
world. During the whole time that this nervous 
disease lasted, the family solemnly declared, that 
she ate nothing, except that she wet her moutfi oc- 
casionally with a few drops of sugar and water. 
The description which she gave of heaven, andjier 
passage thither, had a strong resemblance to Mo- 
hanuned's accounts of paradise ; so that, as he was 
in early life subject to epileptic fits, the writer has 
\ been induced to think it probable, that his whole 
I imposture had its origin in the visions which he ex- 
I perienced during these paroxysms; and that, at first, 
being persuaded that he had divine communications, 
he afterwards resorted to fraud to keep up his pre- 
tensions. However this may be, the young woman 
attracted multitudes from a distance, who were fully 
persuaded, that she did really visit heaven, aud 
some weak people, who had recently lost dear 
friends, come to consult this girl, whether she saw 
any such persons in heaven ; and for a while, so 
great was the fame of her celestial visits, that 
preachers who had visited her, publicly mentioned 
what' th#y heard from her lips, in their sermons. 



THE REV. WM. TEXNENT, JB. 2«5 

On one occasion, a number of fiery zealots, under 
the strong influence of party spirit, believing that 
they and they only were the favourites of heaven, 
visited her and seriously inquired, which of the sev- 
eral denominations of Christians had the approba- 
tion of Christ To the great gratification of most, 
they received a signal rebuke to their sectarian 
spirit; for the young woman, looking sternly at 
them, answered, " persons are not judged of in hea- 
ven by their denomination, but by the purity of their 
hearts, and lives/' And when, in their prayers, 
they employed deafening vociferation, she asked 
them when they were done, whether they thought 
that their Maker was deaf, that they made so much 
noise. As many as two hundred persons were 
known to have visited Susannah Orrendorf, on the 
same day. 

The writer has now before him, a printed narra- 
tive of the apparent death of Charles Lackingford, 
Allegheny county, Maryland. This account is con- 
firmed by the affidavit of foiur of his neighbours, 
who declare, on oath, that they had been acquainted 
with the said Lackingford for at least twelve years, 
and that he had ever supported the character of an 
upright, honest man, and a good citizen ; and that 
the utmost reliance may be placed on his word. In 
their affidavit, before a jiistice of the peace, these 
four men, whose names are given, declare, " That 
on, or about the 14th day of August, 1803, they 



226 THE B£V. WM. TENNENT, JK. 

were sent for to the house of Mr. Cliarles Lacking- 
fojd about six miles from Fort Cim>berland ; that 
on their arrival, they found said Lackingford, lying 
stretched out as dead, to all human appearance ; his 
eyes closed, his hands clenched, and Umbs stiff. 
«• That they were informed by his family, that he had 
died on that morning, apparently in an apoplexy : 
That they were solicited to render the family assis- 
tance in discharging the last rites of humanity ; that 
the deponents caused a coffin to be made ; but that 
on the night between the 14th and 15th of the month, 
while watching with the supposed corpse, precisely 
at 12 o'clock, some inarticulate sounds were heard 
by all the deponents, as proceeding from the abdo- 
men of the said Lackingford ; on which account, on 
the morning following, they deferred the intended 
interment. That the sounds were again repeated at 
12 o'clock, on the noon of the 18th, when symptoms 
of returning life appeared ; and at a quarter after 4 
o'clock, P. M., the said Lacldngford opened his 
eyes, and in a violent voice exclaimed, < where am 
I ?' On which he was released from his winding- 
sheet, and placed in bed, when he declared, that the 
arcana of the infernal regions had been opened to 
him, and that he had actually seen and conversed 
with devils. Deponents further say, that during the 
four days above stated, the body of the said Lack- 
ingford received no nourishment of any kind ; and 
except the noise above stated, was to all appearance. 



THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 1^37 

a dead corpse ; and deponents further say, that to 
the best of their opinion and belief, the trance of the 
said Lackingford cannot be ascribed to any physical 
cause ; or to any other than one of the hidden and 
mysterious visitations of Providence. Further de- 
ponents say not. 

<< Taken and subscribed before me, 

'^ WILLIAM GUSHING, J. P., A. C.'» 

We have seen accounts of many instances of per- 
sons lying for days, and even for weeks, in what 
Tire called trances^ and of their telling of very mar- 
vellous things which had been seen by them, during 
the apparent suspension of life ; but we have selec- 
ted this account because of its being so well authen- 
ticated. 

The man's own narrative of his visit to hell, as 
he imagined, occupies about twelve pages. This 
we do not wish to transcribe. It serves, however, 
to show, how differently, different persons are af- 
fected in such a state of syncope. Mr. Tennent imag- 
ined himself in heaven ; so did Susannah Orrendorf ^ 
but Mf . Lackmgford was persuaded that he was in 
hell, and held much conversation with fielphegof, 
the high constable of the place, who took great 
pains to show him all the apartments, where differ- 
ent classes of sinners were confined and punished. 

It may, however, be satisfactory to hear Mr. 

02 



228 THE RET. WM. TENNENT, JR. 

Lackingford's account of his former life, and of the 
circumstances attending his falling into this trance. 
« I am now," says he, « fifty-seven years of age. 
In my early days, I was brought up to the mercan- 
tile business, at a store on Elk Ridge Landing, near 
the City of l^altimore. In this situation, I made ac- 
quaintance with most of the fashionable vices of 
commercial life, and must c<mfess, that I indulged 
in no small practice of them ; but, however, thank 
heaven, without impairing my naturally athletic 
constitution. Early in the contest for our glorious 
independence, I became a soldier, in defence of my 
country's rights, and in that capacity, continued to 
fight her battles, until Great Britain was forced to 
acknowledge our sovereignty. 

" I am now settled on my share of land-rights, 
granted by congress for my services ; and in the ca- 
pacity of a plain farmer, have earned my bread for 
the last twenty years. I never had any ambition to 
see my name in print, or to hear myself talked of, 
beyond the limits of my little farm ; but I could not 
resist the solicitations of my neighbours, to give to 
the world the extraordinary adventures which I ex- 
perienced, during the four days and nights, when 
nature suspended her functions in my system, and 
left the soul unclogged by the massy materials of the 
body, to roam at large into the hidden regions of the 
damned spirits. 

«0n the 14th of August, 1803, just after sun- 



THX MMY. WM. TENNSNT, JB. 229 

rise, as I was stacking some hay, I heard a voice, as 
if it proceeded from the middle of the stack, exclaim, 
< Charles, go to thy bed,' Terrified and struck 
dumb, I instantly threw down the stack, supposing 
some one was concealed therein, but to my still 
greater amazement, foimd no one; I looked all 
around me ; no living object was visible. I threw 
myself on my knees, to implore the aid of Provi- 
dence ; but, alas ! my power of utterance was de- 
prived me — ^my tongue refused its ojfice. Every 
limb trembled with fear, and still the same voice 
struck with redoubled energy on my astonished ears. 
I rose up, — a dimness overshadowed my eyes, and 
I went trembling towards my house, resolved to 
obey the invisible mandate. I had scarcely reached 
my bed, when one of the most welcome sleeps 
closed my eye-lids." Then he goes on to narrate 
what he imagined he saw and heard, in the infernal 
regions. 

The only thing in the foregoing history of William 
Tennent, which cannot be accoimted for, upon the 
ordinary principles of human nature, is, the dreams 
of the man and his wife, which brought them from 
Maryland to Trenton, and whose testimony was ab- 
solutely necessary to save this good man from 
an ignominious punishment. In this case, if the facts 
are true — concerning which there can be no reason- 
able doubt — there must have been a supernatural 

interposition. These simple people could have had 

03 



230 THE REV. WM. TENNEWT, JB. 

no knowledge of what was transacting in New Jer- 
sey ; and when they came to Trenton, they knew 
not for what purpose their presence was needed. In 
all ages of the world, suggestions and impressions 
have been made in dreams, which have been im- 
portant to the safety or interest of certain persons, 
for whose sake the communication was made. And 
we learn from the Bible, that dreams of this super- 
natural kind, have not been confined to the pious, 
but have been granted to heathen kings, and other 
persons who knew not the true God, as in the case 
of the butler and baker, of Pharaoh, and Nebuchad- 
nezzar. Such dreams are still on certain occasions 
granted, probably by the ministry of angels, for 
the admonitionor direction of the people of God ; 
or for reasons unknown to us. Although it is 
true, "in the multitude of dreams there are 
divers varieties,^' and although false prophets 
pretended to receive communications in dreams, 
and at this time, many persons are superstitiously 
affected by dreams, yet the truth of the fact ought 
not to be denied, that even in our day, dreajns are 
sometimes admonitory, and seem to preserve certain 
persons from evils, which they could not otherwise 
escape. God has no where informed us, that this 
mode of communication with men should entirely 
cease ; and if there are, however rarely, such com- 
munications to certain persons, in sleep, it furnishes 
some proof of the existence of a world of spirits, in- 




THX R£V. WM. TENNENT; JR. 231 

visible to us, but near ; and that we are surrounded, 
and often guarded, by kind angels, who minister 
unto us, and preserve us from many evils of which 
we are not aware. Such dreams are not properly 
called miraculous, nor can the persons to whom they 
are vouchsafed, be said to be inspired. They are 
merely extraordinary intimations to the mind, pro- 
bably as was said, by the agency of guardian angels. 
The only unaccountable thing in this whole business 
is, that Mr. Tennent and his fellow travellers, had not 
sent oflf immediately to this distant place for wit- 
nesses ; for there were many there who had heard 
him and Mr. Rowland preach. Conscious of inno- 
cence, they seem to have apprehended no danger ; 
and when one of their number was found guilty^ 
and actually punished for perjury, there might not 
have been time to bring persons from such a distance. 
But in regard to Mr. Tennuet, he was not only coif- 
scious of innocence, but had such unshaken confidence 
in God, that he feared nothing ; being fully persuaded 
that He would, in some way, interpose by his provi- 
dence, for his deUverance; or would overrule his 
unjust condemnation and punishment, for his own 
glory. This last seems to have been es^cially on 
his mind ; for we are informed, that he had prepared 
a sermon for the occasion, to be preached while 
standing on the pillory. 



CHAPTER XII. 

ANECDOTES OF REV. WM. TENNENT. 

"Mr. Tennent loses some of his toes — Attempted explanations- 
Anecdotes supplied by Dr. ^ iller — Anecdotes from the Assembly's 
Magazine, with an account of his interview with Murray the Uai- 
yersalist 

We have never known a man in modem times^ 
concerning whom so many extraordinary things are 
related. The most important of these are contained 
in Dr. Boudinot's memoir of his life; but many 
others were omitted ; either because he judged them 
x)f not sufficient importance to be recorded in such a 
work, or because, writing for a periodical, he waa 
limited as to the space which the memoir was al- 
lowed to occupy. Many of these anecdotes, how- 
ever, he took a pleasure in relating in conversation 
with his friends ; and those which have been kindly 
furnished by my friend and colleague, the Rev. 
Dr. Miller, were received from him. I have been 
in some doubt about introducing the contents of this 
chapter into the volume ; but as the anecdotes here 
given, are all believed to be authentic, it was thought" 
that they would tend to exhibit in a more distinct 



THE BEV. WM. TENNENT, JH. 233 

light, the true character of this extraordinary man. 
Many others have been current in his vicinity, but 
as they have been handed down by tradition, they 
have not been considered as sufficiently authenti- 
cated, to be inserted in this memoir ; and some of 
them are of too ludicrous a nature to have a place in a 
serious narrative. 

There is one remarkable thing which happened to 
Mr. Tennent, not recorded in the memoir written by 
Dr. Boudinot, which has to most appeared more in- 
expUcable than any other event of his life. One 
night, as the story goes, when Mr. Tennent was 
asleep in his own bed, he was waked up by a sharp 
pain in the region of the toes of one of his feet ; and 
upon getting a light, and examining the foot, it was 
discovered that several of his toes had been cut 
entirely ofF, as if by some sharp instrument. But 
though the wounded part was bleeding, nothing 
was seen of the exscinded members; nor any 
means by which such a dismemberment could have 
been effected. 

In the room was found no animal, rat, cat, or dog, 
although diligent search was made ; neither could 
there be discovered any sharp instrument, by which 
such a wound could have been inflicted. Mr. Ten- 
nent himself, confidently believed that the injury was 
done by the prince of darkness, of whose power 
and malice he was deeply convinced. Others sup- 
posed, that it -must have been effected by some do- 



S34 THE BEV. WM. TENNEKT, JR. 

mestic animal, which might have made its escaj. a 
before a light was obtained ; as both rats and cats 
have been known violently to attack and wound 
persons while asleep. But neither of these explana- 
tions give satisfaction. For as to Satan, it cannot be 
doubted that his maUce is great, and that it is espe- 
cially directed against holy men, and particularly 
faithful ministers. But we have no evidence that he 
is now permitted to injure or wound the bodies oi 
the saints. Our fathers were more credulous on this 
point than we are, and we may dismiss all further 
notice of this account, as an opinion properly be- 
longing to a former age. And as to the idea, that 
it might have been the bite of a hungry and vora- 
cious rat, or mad cat, the thing is very improbable. 
Neither of these animals could have, with their 
teeth, severed the toes from the foot so suddenly ; 
and in that case, the wound would have had marks 
of the gnawing of such an animal ; whereas it was 
said to have had the appearance of being cut by a 
sharp instrument. Perhaps the difficulty of account- 
ing for the accident, prevented Dr. Boudinot from 
inserting the story in Mr. Tennent's memoir; for 
there can be no doubt that he was well acquainted 
with the fact, and all its circumstances. 

The author of this compilation has the more 
readily consented to record the event, because* he 
has a hypothesis by which he thhiks he can account 
for such an accident 



THE R«V. WM. TENNENT, JR, 1t36 

Iff Upon a survey of the circumstances of the afiair, 
it seems highly probable, that Mr. Tennent was a 
somnambulist, and received this injury by treading, 
in his rambles, on some sharp instrument; soon after 
•which he returned to his bed, but did not feel the 
pain of the wound until he awoke. It is well 
known, that persons in this kind of sleep, are very 
little susceptible of the feeling of pain from any ac- 
tAdent of this sort ; and they seldom ever retain any 
recollection of the exercises of their minds at the 
time, or of the scenes through which they have 
passed. Many instances might be given of persons 
receiving bodily hurts while in this state, without 
being awakened thereby ; and apparently, without 
any feeling of pain from wounds which would cause 
very acute suffering to one awake. And it may not 
be improper to refer for proof of this, to undoubted 
facts, witnessed by many, in regard to persons in a 
mesmeric sleep, who undergo surgical operations, 
which give intense pain in a common state, without 
any appearance of sensibility. 

The writer recollects to have heard of an instance 
precisely in point, which occurred in Philadelphia, 
in relation to a son of the late Dr. Sproat, who being 
a somnambulist, got out of his room at a window 
on a shed, and jumped on the ground, but lighting 
on something sharp, cut his foot ; and being soon 
missed, was pursued by his bloody tracks on the 
snow, with which Ibe gromid was at the Hme 



236 THE B£V. WM. TENNENT, JB. 

covered. But he was not awakened from his sleep 
by the wound which he received. Other cases of 
serious injury sustained in the night by persons who 
could give no account how they occurred, have 
fallen under the notice of the writer, and which can 
only be accounted for by this hypothesis. If 
it be alleged, that Mr. Wm. Tennent was not 
known to be a somnambulist, it may be answered, 
that he certainly had a nervous system strung in a 
very peculiar manner, and many are subject to this 
kind of sleep, who never know anything about it. 
And we would adduce the fact under consideration, 
as a strong presumptive evidence of the thing sup- 
posed. 

Anecdotes of the Rev. William Tennent, kindly 
communicated to the author, by the Rev. Doctor 
Miller, of Princeton. 

" This remarkable man was greatly distinguished 
for decision of character. Many good men of his 
day, had more intellectual vigour than he possessed. 
But few of his contemporaries possessed as much 
as he did of that moral courage, — that fixedness of 
purpose, and that firmness of Christian heroism, 
which could not be turned to the right or the left 
This trait in his character was once very strongly 
exemplified at a meeting of the Board of Trustees 
of the College of New Jersey. It is well known that 
Mr. Tennent was one of the most active and zealous 
of the founders of that College ; and that the great 



THU REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. S87 

object of those worthy men, in all the labour and 
expense which they incurred in its establishment, 
was to train up a pious and learned ministry for the 
Presbyterian Church. For the attainment of this 
object, and to guard the College against every 
species of perversion or abuse, he was ever on the 
watch, and especially to promote the religious inter- 
ests of the Institution. 

<« Soon after William Franklin (son of Benjamin) 
was appointed Governor of the Province of New 
Jersey, he took his seat, according to the provision! 
of the Charter, as ex officio President of the Board. 
On one of the early occasions of his presiding in qual- 
ity of Governor, after coming to that office, he formed 
a plan of wheedling the Board into an agreement to 
have their charter so modified, as to place the Insti- 
tution more entirely in the power of the Provincial 
government, and to receive in exchange for this 
concession, some inconsiderable pecuniary advan- 
tage. The Governor made this proposal in a plans* 
ible speech, and was receiving the thanks of several 
short sighted and sanguine members of the Board 
of Trustees — ^when Mr. Tennent, who had been 
prevented by some dispensation of Providence from 
coming earlier, appeared in the Board, and took his 
seat. After listening for a few minutes, and hear- 
ing from one and another of his brother Trustees, 
the nature of the Governor's plan and offer ; after 
several of them had, in his presence, recognized ths 



238 THE HEV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 

Grovernor's proposal as highly favourable, and such 
as ought to be accepted ; and praised * his Excel- 
lency's generous proposal/ as what all must think 
well of— Mr. Tennent, looking round the Board with 
the sharp and piercing eye, for which he was re- 
markable when strongly excited, rose and said: 
< Brethren ! are you mad ? I say, brethren, are 
you mad? Rather than accept the offer of the 
President, I would set fire to the College edifice, at 
its four corners, and run away in the light of the 
flames.' Such was the effect of this rebuff from a 
Trustee of such known honesty, influence and deci- 
sion, that,little more was said. The proposal was 
laid on the table, and never more called up. 

« Mr. Tennent was full of expedients for winning 
souls to Christ. He was remarkably fond of horses ; 
had a good deal of skill in the choice and manage- 
ment of them ; and was seldom known to ride or to 
keep an inferior one. There was a young man in 
his congregation, the son of one of his church-mem- 
bers, also distinguished for his attachment to horses, 
and for his skill in horsemanship. Mr. Tennent 
was very desirous of gaining access to this young 
man, and of securing his confidence. But after 
every effort to accomplish this object, was disap- 
pointed ; the young man, trembling at the thought 
of being addressed on the subject of religion, avoided 
his pastor with the utmost vigilance ; escaped from 
his father's house whenever Mr. Tennent called ; 



THE REV. WM. TENNENT^ JH. 239 

and in every possible way evaded an interview 
with him. Mr. Tennent observed this, and resorted 
to every contrivance in his power to overcome the 
young man's aversion to his company. But in 
vain. Things went on in this way for a considera- 
ble time. In the mean while Mr. Tennent's desire 
for an interview became more intense, from hearing 
that the young man had an active mind, and an 
amiable temper, and was considered as, in most 
respects, very promising by those who knew him 
best. One day, when Mr. Tennent was riding out 
in his course of family visitation, on a remarkably 
fleet horse, he saw this young man about a hundred 
yards before him, coming out from a neighbour's 
gate, and going toward his father's house. Mr. 
Tennent immediately quickened the pace of his 
horse, for the purpose of overtaking him. The 
young man, looking back and seeing Mr. Tennent 
coming, did the same. Each spurred on his horse, 
until the contest became a race at full speed. After 
running in this manner between one and two miles, 
Mr. Tennent, having much the fleeter horse, over- 
took the young man, and, on coming up to him, 
said, in a very aflFable, pleasant manner, * WeJJ 
Johnny, I thought I should overtake you. I see 
you ride a good animal ; but I had a notion that 
mine could beat hinL' He then entered into fa- 
miliar conversation with the young. man, adapting 
all his remarks to what he supposed to be bis favor- 



240 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 

ite pursuits and topics. After riding a mile or two 
together, Mr. Tennent said to him, when they were 
about to separate, * Johnny, come and see me. I 
shall be very glad to see you ; I know you love a 
good horse. I think I have some horses and colts, 
that will please you. It will give me real pleasure 
to show them to you.' With this invitation and 
these remarks, they parted. In a few days the 
young man, greatly pleased with the manner in 
which Mr. Tennent had treated him, accepted his 
invitation, and called at his house. Mr. Tennent 
fulfilled his promise ; took him through his stables, 
and round his farm, and entertained him greatly to 
his gratification, without saying one word to him of 
religion. The young man no longer shunned his 
company, but put himself in his way, not only with- 
out fear, but with pleasure, whenever he had an 
opportunity. Mr. Tennent very soon took occasion, 
after gaining his confidence, to address him on the 
most important of all subjects ; and it was not long 
before he listened with serious attention 5 became 
hopefully the subject of renewing grace 5 and was 
soon united with the church of Christ. 

'* This excellent man was remarkably skilful, dis- 
criminating and faithful in dealing with those who 
came to him professing to be in a state of anxiety 
or inquiry respecting their salvation. He was once 
visited by a female, advanced in life, one of Jiis 
stated hearers, who had not borne a very good 



THE REV. WM. TENNBNT, JR. 241 

character, but who now professed to be deeply anx- 
ious concerning her eternal welfare. She wept, 
acknowledged herself a great sinner, and abounded 
in language of severe self-crimination, and profes- 
sions of deep penitence. Mr. Tennent thought he 
saw in her whole air and manner something like 
over-acting, which, taken in connexion with her 
former life, led him to suspect, that her professions 
were not very sincere. He, therefore, determined 
at once to put them to, the test, and said : ^* Mrs. 

you speak of yourself as a great sinner : that 

is just what we have always thought of you. I 
have no doubt it is very much as you say.'' The 
woman, who was indeed a hypocrite, fully expect- 
ing to be hailed with pleasure and confidence as a 
genuine convert by her minister, was thrown off 
her guard by this rebuff, and replied with strong 
resentment : * It's no such thing. I'm not chargea- 
ble with these sins, I'm as good as you any day ;' 
and immediately left the house ; and with this in- 
terview dismissed her serious impressions. 

" At another time Mr. Tennent, in riding out, 
stopped opposite the door of a small tavern in his 
neighbourhood to make some inquiry. While wait- 
ing a moment to obtain the desired information, a 
man, evidently intoxicated with strong drink, came 
out of the house, and accosted him by name. Find- 
ing that Mr. Tennent did not return his salutation 
with tlie readiness and familiarity of an acquaint- 



242 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR. 

ance, he said : ^ Mr. Tennent, I believe you do not 
know me ; why, you converted me a few months 
ago/ 'Ah! my friend/ said Mr. Tennent, 'its 
like some of my bungling work. If the Spirit of 
God had converted you, we should not have seen 
you in this situation.' '' 

In the same volume of the Assembly's Missiona- 
ry Magazine which contains the biography of the 
Rev. William Tennent, jr., we have, from another 
hand, the three following anecdotes. 

" He was crossing the bay from New York to 
Elizabethtown, in company with two gentlemen, 
who had no great fondness for clergymen, and who 
cautiously avoided him for some time after getting 
on board the boat. As he usually spoke loudly, 
they overheard what he said, and finding him a 
cheerful companion, who could converse upon other 
subjects besides religion, they ventured a little 
nearer to him ; and at length they and he engaged 
in a conversation upon politics. One of his congre- 
gation, who was a fellow-passenger, happening to 
overhear a remark he made, stepped up to him, and 
said, 'Mr. Tennent, please to spiritualize that.' 
'Spiritualize that,' said Mr. T. 'you don't know 
what you are talking about.' 'Why, sir, there is 
no harm in talking religion, is there ?' ' Yes/ 
replied Mr. T. ' there is a great deal of harm in it ; 
and it is such good folks as you, that always lug re- 
ligion in, by head and shoulders, whether it is pro- 



THE REV. WM. TENNEUT^ JR. 243 

per or not, that hurt the cause ; if you want to talk 
religion, you know where I live, and I know where 
you live, and you may call at my house, or I will 
call at yours, and I will talk religion with you till 
you are tired ; but this is not the time to talk reli- 
gion ; we are talking politics/ This reply, and 
his conduct in other respects, so much ingratiated 
Mr. Tennent with the two gentlemen, as to furnish 
him with an opportunity for advantageously intro- 
ducing conversation upon more important subjects ; 
and the younger of the two was so much pleased, 
that on their arrival at Elizabethtown Point, he in- 
sisted upon Mr. Tennent taking his seat in a chair, 
and he walked from the Point to Elizabethtown, 
through a muddy road, which, to a person of Mr. 
Tennent's age, would have been very inconvenient 
if not impracticable. 

" At New York, Mr. Tennent went to hear a ser- 
mon delivered by a transient clergyman, who was 
often and well spoken of, but whose manner was 
singular, and who frequently introduced odd con- 
ceits into his ssrmons, which tended to excite mirth, 
rather than to edification. Upon leaving the church 
a friend asked Mr. Tennent^s opinion of the ser- 
mon. He said, it made him think of a man who 
should take a bag," and put into it some of the very 
best superfine wheat flour, a greater quantity of 
indian meal, and some arsenic, and mix them all 

together : a part of the sermon was of the very best 

P 



S44 THE REV. WM, TENNENT, JR. 

q^uality ; more of it was coarse, but very wholesome 
food ; and some of it rank poison." 

^ Upon another occasion, he went with a friend 
to hear an illiterate carpenter preach at New York ; 
and it appeared to him that the man denied the doc- 
trine of the perseverance of the saints. The next 
morning Mr. Tennent called upon his friend, and 
asked if it appeared so to him ? Upon his friend's- 
replying in the affirmative, Mr. Tennent said, " then 
I must go and talk with him, and you must go 
along with me.'' His friend begged to be excused^ 
But Mr. Tennent insisted upon his going, as he had 
heard the doctrine denied. They foimd the car- 
penter at breakfast. Mr. Tennent asked if he was^ 
the person who had preached last evening ? he said 
he was. Then, said Mr. Tennent * it appeared to 
me that you denied the doctrine of the perseverance 
of the saints ; did I understand you rightly ?' ^ Yes^ 
sir, be sure I did,^ said the carpenter ; * that is a 
doctrine which no man in his senses can believe*' 
{Vl\ tell you/ replied Mr. Tennent ^that is the 
most precious doctrine in all the book of God : I 
will give up my life before I will give that up : I 
must talk with you aboBt it.' The man alleged 
that he was a mechanic, who depended upon his 
trade for the support of his lamily, and could not 
stay to talk; he must mind his business. ^I am 
glad to hear that,' said Mr. Tennent ^ I love to see 
men dihgent in their lawful callings : it is their duty ; 



THE JREY. WM. TENNENT, JR. M5 

but yours is of such a nature that you can work 
and talk at the same time ; and I will go with you 
to where your business lies, so that your time shaH 
not be wasted :' the carpenter said he did not want 
to talk, took his hat, and abruptly went off. Mr. 
Tennent followed him: the man walked faster: 
Mr, Tennent quickened his pace. At letagth ^the 
man ran ; bo did Mr. Tennent. Bat the carpenter 
was too fleet for his pursuer ; by his speed he 
evaded his arguments, and remained in error.*' 

The following anecdote has been handeiJ down 
by tradition, and in substance is confirmed by a one- 
sided account of the affair, contained in the life of 
Murray the Universalist, who is the person concerned. 
Mr. Tennent's zeal for the truth, and opposition to 
what he viewed to be error, were very strong 5 and 
were manifested whenever an occasion occurred 
which called for their exercise. It so happened that 
Mr. Murray, an Englishman, who had adopted from 
Relly, the doctrines of Universalism, was landed oa 
the Jersey shore, not very remote from Mr. Ten- 
nent's residence. Though he had not been a Uni- 
versalist preacher in England, yet having while in 
connexion with the Methodists, both in Ireland and 
England, been accustomed to public speaking in the 
way of exhortation, he was induced upon his landing 
at a place on the Jersey shore, called " Good Luck," 
to commence preaching to the people. At first his 

doctrine of universal salvation was not clearly and 

F2 



^3^.. 



246 THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JTR. 

openly announced, but rather covertly insinuated. 
Possessing some wit and eloquence he attracted 
many hearers, and travelled about the country, ad- 
dressing the people wherever he could get an op- 
portunity. Soon after he commenced this career, 
he came into the congregation of Freehold, and 
lodged with one of Mr. Tennent's hearers. As soon 
as this watchful pastor heard that the wolf had en- 
tered among the sheep of his flock, taking with him 
some of his neighbours, he went to the house where 
Mr. Murray was staying ; and demanded of him 
'by what authority he had assumed the office of 
preacher.' Murray answered him, by asking, " by 
what authority he asked him such a question.'' An 
altercation ensued, Mr. Tennent continuing peremp- 
torily to demand his authority to preach, and he as 
pertinaciously evading a direct answer. It does not 
appear, however, from Mr. Murray's account, the 
only written one which we have seen, that Mr. 
Tennent then knew that he was a Universalist ; for 
in the interview nothing was said on that subject ; 
nor on any other point of doctrine. It would feeem 
that Mr. Tennent considered him as an irregular, 
unauthorized itinerant, who, not being in connexion 
with any denomination of Christians, ought not to 
be encouraged. Andj this, according to Mr. Mur- 
ray's own account, was the exact state of the case. 
He stood entirely alone ; and professed to hold ec- 
clesiastical connexion with no body ooi earth ; yet 



THE RBV. WM. TENNBNT, JR. 247 

this man became the fomider of a large sect, in this 
country ; for the UniversaUsts acknowledge him Hd 
a father. But as the course of error is always 
downward, most of his followers have departed far 
from his opinions, on other doctrinal points, as ap- 
pears by his life. 



^ 

^ 



PS 







CHAPTER XIIL 



MEMOIR OF THE REV. CHARLES TEN- 

NENT. 



Birth — Immigration — Education — Settlement in the ministry at 
Whiteclay Creek — Great revival under the preaching of Mr. 
Whitefield — Removal and death. 

From an original document, a small memoran- 
dum-book, kept by the Rev. William Tennent, sen., 
we learn, that his fourth son, Charles, was born at 
Colerain, in the county of Down, on the third day 
of May, in the year 1711, and was baptized by the 
Rev. Richard Donnell. At the time of his father's 
emigration from Ireland, he was, therefore, a • boy 
of seven years of age.T He, as well as his older 

* By the memoranda referred to above, we are able to 
authenticate some things relating to the founder of the Log 
College, and to correct some other things, inserted in the 
history. This document came into the possession of the 
editor, since the first part of this volume was printed. We 
learn from the fore mentioned autograph, that the Rev. 
William Tennent, sen,, was married on the 15th day of 
May, 1702, in the county of Down, in the north of Ireland ; 
that he was ordained a deacon in the Episcopal Church of 
Ireland on the first day of July, 1704 ; and ordained priest, 
or presbyter in the same, on the 22d day of September, 1706, 



TBS mur. CHAALES TEVVMMT. 249 

brothers, received his education under the patenii! 
roof, or ratlier in the Log College. He appe 




however, to have been less distinguished than ei 
of his brothers ; but seems to have been a resp 
ble minister of the gospel, and was early settled iu, 
the Presbyterian congregation of Whiteclay Creek, 
in the state of Delaware. Soon after his settlement, 
in this place, the great revival under the preaching 
of Whitefield commenced, and was very powerful 
in this congregation. During this remarkable sea- 
son of divine influence, Mr. Whitefield spent somti 
days with Mr. Charles Tennent, and assisted him in 
the administration of the Lord's Supper ; preaching 
to vast multitudes of people every day of the solemni- 
ty, wbkh continued four days, according to custom. 

The dates of the birth of his children are, Gilbert Tennent 
bora in the county of Armagh, on the 5th October, 1703, and 
bajHised the following day. 

William was born in the county of Antrim, on the 5th day 
of January, 1705. 

John WM bom in the county of Antrim, on the 12th of 
September, 1706, and was baptized the following day. 

Charles, was bora in the county of Down, on the 3d day 
of May, 1711. 

Sleaaor was bom in the county of Down, on the 27th of 
December, 1708. 

Mr. W, Tennent, sen., arrived with his family, in Phila- 
delphia, September, 1718. 

On the 22d of Norember, 1718, he was settled in the 
parish of East Chester, New York. And on the 3d of May, 
1720, removed to the town of Bedford, New York. 

These are the only memoranda of any importance, in 
this document 



I 

4 





250 THB BEY. CHARLS TENlffENT. 

. This information, the writer obtained, many years 
ago, from one of the subjects of the revival, Mrs. 
Bbuglass, the sister of Charles Thompson, Sec'y of 
the continental congress, and grandmother of the 
late Rev. James Douglass, of Fayetteville, North 
Carolina, so highly esteemed as a spiritual, search- 
ing, evangelical preacher. This old lady appeared 
to me to be as eminently pious, as any person I ever 
i knew. She informed me, that while Mr. White* 
k field spoke at the tables, in administering the sacra- 
r ment, he poured forth such a flood of tears, that his 
cambric handkerchief was wetted as if it had been 
>■ dipped in water. She spoke of that day as by far 
f. the most glorious she had ever witnessed. Her ac- 
count of the Rev. Charles Tennent, was, that he 
was a plain, good preacher 5 but not distinguished 
for great abilities. I was surprized to find that this 
pious old lady was no longer a member of the Pres- 
byterian church, but had long ago, joined the com- 
munion of the Seceders. Upon enquiry it appeared, 
that this change had been made by her and some 
others, in consequence of the union entered into 
with the Old Side, in 1758. The congregation of 
Whiteclay Creek, of which Mr. Tennent was the 
pastor, was situated in the neighbourhood of some 
congregations, the ministers and members of which 
opposed the revival, and represented the whole as a 
delusion of the devil. 
The friends, and especially the subjects of the re- 



THE BEY. CHARLES TENNENT. 251 

vival, could not but consider 4hese opposers, as the 
enemies of vital piety, and, therefore, felt no dispo- 
sition to hold any fellowship with them. Thij 
were, therefore, astonished and offended, when they 
imderstood that a union between the two parties 
had been consummated. As soon as Mr. Tennent 
returned from the synod, in Philadelpha, where the 
imion had been agreed on, Mrs. Douglass went to 
him, and expostulated with him on the subject, 
"Oh! Mr. Tennent,^' said she, "how could you 
consent to enter into communion with those, who so 
wickedly reviled the glorious work of God's grace 
in this land ? As for myself, I never can, and never 
will ; until they profess repentance for their griev- 
ous sin, in speaking contemptuously of the work of 
the Holy Spirit.^' And accordingly, she went and 
joined the Seceders, who had begun to form soci- 
eties, in several parts of Pennsylvania, and con- 
tinued in their communion until her dying day. 
But her heart was still with the evangelical part of 
the Presbyterian church, and all her children en- 
tered into the communion of that church. Two of 
her sons, James Douglass, and Daniel Douglass, 
some forty years ago, were pious, intelligent, and 
estimable elders in the Presbyterian church in Alex- 
andria, D. C, of which, the Rev. Dr. Muir, was 
the respected pastor. No doubt, the views of this 
good lady in regard to the union, so happily formed 
between the dissentient parties in the Presbyterian 




252 THS REV. CHARLES TENNENT. 

church, were narrow, yet they were very natural 
and arose, from her acquaintance with the Old Side 
party being confined to those immediately around 
her, who had taken a very active part in ridiculing 
and maligning this blessed reformation, by which 
many sinners were converted, and turned from 
darkness to light, and &om the power of Satan unto 
God. The writer, in his youth, has known some 
^ people who would indulge in the most violent 
wrath, at any favourable mention of Mr. White- 
field; and yet they professed to believe the very 
doctrines which he preached. A large part of 
those, however, who belonged to the Old Side, were 
actuated by no such spirit ; but were quiet, orderly, 
well informed Christians, who were very careful in 
the religious instruction of their own families ; and 
very strict and conscientious in all the duties of re- 
ligion. 

Some years before his death, Mr. Charles Ten- 
nent removed from Whiteclay Creek, to Bucking- 
ham church, in Maryland, where he ended his days, 
and where it is presumed, his remains were interred. 
Of his latter days, and of the circumstances of his 
decease, we have received no authentic information. 
A dark cloud of oblivion seems to rest on the close 
of his life. 

It may be proper, however, to observe, that he 
had a son, the Rev. William M. Tennent, who, after 
receiving a finished education, entered the holy 



THE KEY. CHARLES TENNENT. 253 

ministry and became pastor of the Presbyterian 
church in Abington, in the vicinity of Philadelphia. 
He married a daughter of the Rev. Dr. Rodgers, of 
New York, and received the honourable degree of 
Doctor of Divinity from Y^le College. 

He was a man of great sweetness of temper and 
politeness of manners ; and was distinguished for 
his hospitality. His house was seldom without the 
company of friends and acquaintances ; and all who 
had the privilege of visiting at this pleasant retreat 
were delighted with their cordial reception and kind 
entertainment. His last sickness was long, but in 
it he was in a great measure exempt from pain, and 
was blessed with an uninterrupted assurance of the 
favour of God. The writer, then residing in Phila- 
delphia, frequently saw and conversed with him ; 
and he must say, he never saw any person in a 
sweeter, calmer, happier state of mind, and it con- 
tinued for many weeks. He died in the year 1811 
or 1812. 

It is believed that no male descendant of any 
branch of the Tennent family now remains in this 
part of the country ; though there are several in 
South Carolinia. Indeed the only descendant of the 
Founder of the Log College, known to us, is a grand- 
daughter of the Rev. Gilbert Tennent, who resides 
in Philadelphia. 



CHAPTEE XIV. 

THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. 

Educated in the Log College— Licensed to preach by the Netreatftto 
Presbytery — First settled at Shrewsbury, N. J. — Removes to New 
Londonderry in Pennsylvania — Great revival jn that congregation 
— His letter to Mr. Prince — How far justifiable in violating rolee 
of order — Dr. Finley's character of himi Mr. Davies' Elegy- 
Publications. 

The following character of Mr. Samuel Blair is 
given by Dr. Finley, in his funeral sermon, oc- 
casioned by the death of this eminent servant of 
Jesus Christ. 

« He was blessed with early piety. On his dying 
bed he could recollect with delight, various evidences 
of gracious influences in his tender years. By this' 
means he was happily preserved from being ever 
engaged in vicious courses ; and at once grew in 
stature and in grace. Religion, far from being a 
flashy thing with him, was rational and solid ; man- 
ifesting itself in unreserved obedience to all God's 
commandments. 

" To a holy disposition was added a great genius, 
capable of the highest improvement. He had a 
deep and penetrating judgment, a clear and regular 



THE HEV- SAMUEL BLATR. 255 

T^ay of conceiving things, and a retentive memory. 
He was an indefatigable student, a calm and impar- 
tial searcher after truth. He thought for himself, 
and was determined in his conclusions, only by evi- 
dence. He had a very considerable store of critical 
learning, and was especially conversant with the 
scriptures in the original languages. How great 
his attainments in philosophy were, was known by 
few ; for in his last years, his thirst for knowledge 
did sensibly increase, and he greatly improved him- 
self therein. He studied several branches of the 
mathematics, and especially, geometry and astrono- 
my; nor will these seem tasteless studies to one 
who had such a savour of living piety, when it is 
considered that he saw the glory of God in all his 
worlcs, and admired and adored Him in all. He 
delighted to see the ' invisible things of Him, even 
his eternal power and godhead, manifested by the 
things that are made.' It was edifying to him to 
trace the footsteps of the divine wisdom in particu- 
lars, and the infinite reach of projection in the frame 
and structure of the whole. 

" But his critical and philosophical learning, and 
his large acquaintance with geography and history, 
were exceeded by his knowledge in divinity. This 
wais the business of his life, and herein he made 
such proficiency as few of his standing in the minis* 
try have attained unto. Here he found what per- 
fectly answered his refined, spiritual taste. The 



256 THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIB. 

contemplation of redeeming love, did much more 
elevate his soul, than that of the works of creation ; 
for therein he saw the wisdom, the power, the* jus- 
tice, and the love of God, more clearly displayed. 
On every subject he had a set of most' accurately 
studied thoughts. He had often weighed in an im- 
partial balance, every theological controversy ; was 
a solid disputant, and able to defend all necessary 

• 

truth. He was a judicious casuist, and could very 
satisfyingly resolve dubious and perplexed cases of 
conscience. He was not only a proficient in syste- 
matic divinity, which is comparatively a small at- 
tainment, but a great textuary. He studied the 
sacred oracles above all other things, and that it was 
not in vain, manifestly appeared from his great abil- 
ity in 'dividing the word of truth.' He could 
< bring out of his treasure, things new and old.' 
How clearly and fully would he explain his sub- 
ject ? with what irresistible arguments confirm the 
truth ! With what admirable dexterity accommo- 
date it to his audience ! And with what solemn 
pimgency did he impress it on the conscience ! He 
spoke like one who knew the worth of souls, and 
felt in himself the surest constraints of love to God 
and man. 

" As to his religious principles, he was of noble 
and generous sentiments. He had not ^ so learned 
Christ,' as to be furious in his zeal for mere circum- 
stantial, or indifferent points. He understood the 



THB REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. 257 

nature of religion better than to place it in things in 
which it does not consist ; and was too much exer- 
cised about ^ the great matters of the law/ to be 
equally zealous for ^ mint, anise, and cummin/ 
Though sacrifice be good ; yet he had learned that 
^ mercy is better.' He believed, and that in accor- 
dance with the scriptures, that the communion of 
saints is of much greater importance, than many of 
those things in which Christians diflfer in judgment, 
and was, therefore, far from such narrowness, as to 
make every principle and practice which he thought 
to be good and tnie, a term of communion ; and he 
was as far from the contrary extreme of indifference 
to the truth, and laxness of discipline. As he was 
diligent in the exercise of his ministerial office, 
to the utmost of his strength, not sparing him- 
self; so God did very remarkably succeed his 
faithful ministrations to the conversion of many 
souls. He was the spiritual father of great num- 
bers. I have had acquaintance with Christians in 
different places, where he only preached occasion- 
ally, who gave all hopeful evidences of a sacred 
conversion, and acknowledged him to be the instru- 
ment of it. He was strict in discipline ; yet so as to 
be still candid ; and severely just, yet so as to be still 
compassionate and tender. And with what wisdom 
and circumspection, he judged in difficult cases, his 
brethren of the presbyteiy well know. We waited 
for his sage remarks, and heard attentively, his pru« 



258 THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIB. 

dent reasonings ; and after his words how seldom 
had any one occasion to speak again ! * His speech 
dropped upon us, and we waited for him, as for the 
rain/ He has been eminently servicable to the 
church, by assisting several promising youths in 
their studies for the ministry ; who, becoming learned 
by his instructions, and formed by his example, are 
now wise, and useful, and faithful ministers. 

^^He was remarkably grave and solemn in his 
aspect and deportment; yet, of a cheerful, even, and 
pleasant temper. And in conversation with his in- 
timate friends, facetious and witty, when the season 
and concurring circumstances would allow him to 
mdulge in that way ; in respect of which his pru- 
dence could well direct him. He was of a gener- 
ous and liberal disposition 5 far from being niggard- 
ly, or covetous 5 was forward in acts of charity to the 
indigent, according to his ability, and all his con- 
duct discovered a noble indiflference toward earthly 
things. 

« If we consider him as a friend, he was as firm 
and steadfast, and might as much be depended on as 
any I ever knew. He was remote from precarious 
and fickle humours : his approbation was not easily 
obtained, nor easily lost. Nor was he a friend only 
in compliment, but would cheerfully undergo hard- 
ships, and suffer disadvantages, in order to do a 
friendly office. He was conscientiously punctual in 
attending ecclesiastical judicatures, presbyteries or 



THE RET. SAMUEL BLAIRr f 59= 

synods. His presence might be depended on, if 
nothing extraordinary intervened, as certainly as 
the appointed day. He was not absent on every 
trifling inconvenience. In this respect his conduct 
was truly exemplary, and demonstrated his constant 
care for the public interests of religion. So great 
was his attention to matters of conmion concern, as 
to incline him, rather to expose himself, than balk 
an opportunity of doing good. It is well known, 
that his going upon an urgent call, in a weakly state 
of body, and in unsettled season, to a convention of 
the Trustees of New Jersey College, gave occasictti; 
to that fatal sickness, from which he never fully re- 
covered. 

^ In social life, also, he was worthy of imitation. 
As a husband, he was aflectionate and kind ; as a 
father, tender and indulgent. In him, condescension 
and authority were duly tempered. There was 
that in him that could engage love and command 
reverence, at the same time. Who that was ac- 
quainted with him would not be ready to say, * hap- 
py was the family of which he was the head, and 
happy the congregation that enjoyed his ministry ? 
happy the judicature of which he was a member ; 
and happy the person, who was favoured with his 
friendship ! He was a public blessing to the church, 
an honour to his people, an ornament to his profes- 
sion who ^magnified his oflice.' He spoke as he 
believed; he practised as he preached; he lived 
holy, and died joyfully 



^\ 



260 THE KEY. SAMUEL BLAIB. 

" For a long course of years, he had a habitual, 
unwavering assurance of his interest in the favour 
of God, apd that a blessed and glorious eternity 
would, one day open upon him ; which were his 
own emphatical words on his dying bed. This his 
assurance was solid and scriptural, arising from the 
many and clear experiences he had of gracious com- 
munications to his soul. He was made sensible in 
his early years, of his guilty state by nature as 
well as practice ; felt his inability to deliver him- 
self; saw plainly that he lay at mercy, and that it 
was entirely at God^s pleasure to save or reject him. 
This view of the case created in him a restless con- 
cern, until the way of life through Jesus Christ was 
graciously discovered to him. Then he saw that 
God could save him in consistency with all the hon- 
ours of governing justice ; for that the obedience 
and sufferings of Christ, in the room of sinners, have 
made a sufficient atonement for sin. He saw that 
Christ was a Saviour every way complete and suit- 
able for him. His soul approved the divine and 
glorious plan ; and freely disclaiming all dependence 
on his own righteousness, wisdom, and strength, 
most gladly accepted the offer of the gospel, that 
Christ should be his ^ wisdom, righteousness, sancti- 
fication, and redemption.' Strict holiness was his 
choice, and it was the delightful business of his life, 
to ^ do always those things which pleased his hea- 
venly Father.' And on his dying bed, he had the 



^■fl*; 



THE KEY. SAMUEL BLAIR. ^ .ii/ ^261 



fall approbation and testimony of bis conscience, as 
to the general bent and tenor of his life. These 
particulars are the heads of what he himself told me 
in his last sickness, and are delivered in the same 
order, as near as I can possibly recollect." 

When he approached near his end, he expressed 
most ardent desires « to depart and be with Christ :" 
and especially, the three last days of his life were 
taken up in this exercise. Many gracious words he 
spoke, gave an affectionate farewell to his beloved, 
sorrowful consort, and dear children : tenderly com- 
mitted them to the divine mercy and faithfulness, 
and fervently prayed, that the blessing of the Most 
High might be vouchsafed to them, and rest upon 
them ; which prayer, I hope, will be answered. His 
last words, a minute or two before his departure, 
were, " the Bridegroom is come, and we shall now 
have all thidgs." And thus, under a gleam of hea- 
ven, he breathed out his last. 

The Rev. Samuel Davies,who had received nearly 
his whole education under the tuition of Samuel 
Blair, was deeply affected when he heard the sad 
tidings of the death of his revered,and beloved instruc- 
tor. He was then residing at Hanover, in Virginia, 
where he had gone to occupy an important station, as 
will be particularly related in another part of this 
work. Mr. Davies, who possessed ardent affections, 
and a lively imagination, frequently gave indulgence 
to his poetic genius, which, if it had been cultivated, 

Q 



.*. 



- ■ I ■ 
■ « 



ddd ■ -Vi THE BEV. SAMUEL BLAIH. 

might have rendered him conspicuous in that de|>aTl* 
ment,now invoked his sacred Muse, and composed aH 
elegy of niany hues, on his admired friend and tutor. 
The poem is more remarkable for pathos, than for 
smooth versification. The only reason for noticing 
it here, is, to show the opinion entertained of Mr. 
Blair, by this first of American preachers. A few 
extracts will be suflScient to answer our purpose. 

*« Blair is no more — then this poor world has lost 

As rich a jewel as her stores could boast ; 
Heaven, in just vengeance, has recalled again, 
Its faithful envoy, from the sons of men. 
Advanced him from his pious toils below. 
In raptures there, in kindred plains to glow.*' 

"O, had not the mournful news divulged. 
My mind had still the pleasing dream indulged — 
Still fancied Blair, with health and vigour blessed, 
With some grand purpose labouring in his breast. 
tn studious thought, pursuing truth divine, 
Till the full demonstration round him shine ; 
Or, from the sacred desk, proclaiming luud. 
His Master's message, to the attentive crowd, 
While heavenly truth wiih bright conviction glares, 
And coward error shrinks, and disappears ; 
While quick remorse, the hardy sinner feels. 
And CalvVy's balm, the bleeding conscience heals " 

" Oh ! could the Muse's languid colours paint. 

The man, the scholar, student, preacher, saint ; 

I 'd place his image full in public view ; 

His friends should know more than before they knew. 

His foes astonished at his virtues, gaze. 

Or shrink confounded from the oppressive blaze. 

To trace his bright example, all should turn, 

And with the bravest emulation bum. 

His name should my poor lays immortalize* 



TU£ REV. SAMU£L BLAIR. ; -Vt^. 8f 9 

Till he, to attest bis character, arise. 

And the Great Judge, the encomium ratifies/* 

The following lines will serve to show who were 
the persons, in Mr. Davies's estimation, who deserved 
to be handed down to posterity, as the choseu 
friends, and faithful coadjutors of Mr. Blair, in his 
evangelical labours. They were all alumni of the 
Log College, or of Mr. Blair's school, at New Lon- 
donderry. And if we look at the men educated in 
this school, we cannot but entertain an exalted opin* 
ion of Mr. Samuel Blair, as an instructor. 

-'^ Surviving remnant of the sacred tribe. 

Who knew the worth these plaintive lays describf^ 

Tennents, three worthies of immortal fame, 

Brethren by office, births in heart and name. 

FiNLEY, who full enjoyed the unbosomed friend ; 

RoDGERS, whose soul he like his own refined. 

When all attention, eager to admit 

The flowmg knowledge, at his reverend feet, 

Kaptured we sat ; and thou above the rest. 

Brother and image of the dear deceased. 

Surviving Blair ! Oh, let spontaneous flow 

The floods of tributary griof you owe. 

And in your number — if so mean a name. 

Ma} the sad honour of chief mourner claim. 

Oh ! may my filial tears more copious flow, 

And swell the tide of universal woe. 

Oh ! Blair ! whom all the tenderest names commend. 

My father, tutor, pastor, brother, friend! 

While distance, the sad privilege denies, 

0*er thy dear tomb, to vent my bursting eye8. 

The Muse erects — the sole return allowed — 

This humble monument of gratitude." 

As the remarkable and impressive solemnity o£ 



264 Tin: rkv. s\muel babir. 

Samuel Blair's appearance, especially in the pulpit, 
has been noticed by all who have given any account 
of him; it will be gratifying to have the same con- 
firmed by such a man as Samuel Davies, who himself 
was so distinguished for dignity and solemnity in the 
pulpit, that one of the most excellent laymen I ever 
knew, told me, that he went to hear Mr. Davies 
preach, when h6 was just grown up, and that the 
sight of the man, and the mere utterance of his text, 
"Martha, Martha," &c., made a deeper impression 
on him, than all the sermons he had ever heard 
before. 

"Now, in the sacred desk, I see bini rise. 
And well he acts the herald of the skies. 
Graceful solemnity, and striking awe 
Sit in his looks, and deep attention draw. 
His speaking aspect — in the bloom of youth 
Renewed — declares unutterable truth. 
Unthinking crowds grow solemn as they gaze, 
And read his awful message in his face.*' 

The principal writings of the Rev. Samuel Blair, 
were collected by his brother John, after his deaths 
and published in Philadelphia, in the year 1754, 
together with Dr. Finley's Funeral Sermon, from 
which we have so largely quoted, and Mr. Davies's 
Elegy. 

This volume contains seven sermons, all on highly 
important and practical subjects ; which are treated 
in a very solemn and methodical manner. His 
style is perspicuous, but neither terse nor elegant ; 
but the thoughts ore those of a profound thinker. 



THE BEV. SAMUEL BLAIU. 965 

To these sermons is appended an elaborate trea- 
tise on Predestination and Reprobation, evincing 
that the author was a thorough-going Calvinist. 
This treatise has been recently republished in Balti- 
more. This volume also contains his "Vindi- 
cation/' written by the direction of the Presby- 
tery of New Brunswick, in answer to "The 
Government of the Church,'' &c., by the Rev. John 
Thompson. 

The Rev. Samuel Blair, was a native of Ireland, 
but came early to this country, and received his 
education in the Log College, imder Mr. Wm. Ten- 
nent, Sen., at Neshaminy. He must, indeed, have 
been among the first pupils of this institution. After 
finishing his classical and theological studies, Mr. 
Blair put himself under the care of the New Ceistle 
presbytery, by which body he was, in due time, 
licensed to preach the gospel. Soon after his license, 
he was settled in the Presbyterian congregation, at 
Shrewsbury, in New Jersey. He laboured in this 
field, for five or six years, when he received an 
earnest call to settle in New Londonderry, otherwise 
called Fagg's Manor, in the State of Pennsylvania. 
Here he instituted a classical school, similar in its 
purpose to that of Mr. Tennent, in Neshaminy. In 
which, some of the ablest ministers of the Presbyte- 
rian church received either the whole, or the more 
substantial parts of their education. Among these 
were, the Rev. Samuel Davies, the Rev, AlQ'Kax>Awt 



QC9 THE KEY. SAMUEL BLAIR. 

Gumming, the Rev. John Rodgers, D. D., the. Rev. 
James Finley, and the Rev. Hugh Henry. 

Mr. Blair's settlement at Shrewsbury, was in the 
year 1734, when he was only twenty-two years of 
age. 

The presbytery of New Brunswick did not exist 
until the year 1738, of which Mr. Blair was one of 
the original members. 

When he received the call from New London- 
derry, in Chester county, Pennsylvania, he left it to 
the presbytery to decide, whether he should go or 
stay. After mature deliberation, they advised him 
to accept the call, as they were of opinion it would 
introduce him into a wider field of usefulness. 

There are no records extant, from which we can 
learn any particulars respecting the fruits of Mr. 
Blair's labours at Shrewsbury. Here he com- 
menced his ministerial work ; and as he was a faith- 
fid, able and zealous preacher of the truth as it is in 
Jesus, we entertain no doubt that some of the good 
9eed which he sowed, fell into good ground, and 
brought forth fruit. The vicissitudes of that congre- 
gation have been remarkable. For a while it was 
flpurishing, and had many respectable members, but 
it became apparently extinct, and the house of wor- 
ship was burned; but aft^r heing dead for some 
years, it was resuscitated 5 ,it now promises to flour- 
ish again. 

Under his ministry $it New Londonderry, thw? 



THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. 267 

occurred a very remarkable revival of religion, of 
which he wrote a particular narrative The congrega* 
tion at Fagg's Manor, consisted almost entirely of 
emigrants from the north of Ireland ; and had been 
formed a number of years, but had never enjoyed 
the ministry of a stated pastor. His settlement among 
them took place in November, 1739 ; although he 
was not installed as their pastor, until the month of 
April, 1740. 

The revival referred to above, commenced a short 
time after his settlement in the place. The follow- 
ing account is contained in the " Narrative" which 
he wrote, in a letter to the Rev. Mr. Prince, of Bos- 
ton, in his " Christian History." 

**Neu) Londonderry in Pennsylvaniot Aug, 6thy 1744. 

" Rev. Sib, 

'* I do most gladly comply with your desire in sending you 
some account of the glorious appearance of God in a way of 
special grace for us in this congregation, and other parts of 
this country : and am of the same judgment with you and 
other pious and judicious people, that the collecting and pub- 
lishing of such accounts may greatly tend to the glory of 
our Redeemer, and the increase of his triumphs. I much 
rejoice in the publication of such a collection in the Christian 
History, so far as it is already carried on : 1 think it may 
serve to many excellent purposes, and be an happy mean 
of advancing the dear interests of our glorious Redeemer's 
kingdom, both in the present age, and the ages to come. 
And I cannot but look upon myself as called of God in duty* 
being thus invited to it, by you, Rev. Sir, to put to a hand, 
among many others of my reverend fathers and brethren on 
both sides of the Atlantic, to the carrying on of the design of 
said history, containing accounts of the revival and propaga- 



/ 



•♦■■•■■■ ^ . . * "• 
268 THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. •- 7, J. - 

lion of religion in this remarkable day of grace. I cannott 
indeed, give near so full and particular a relation of the re- 
▼ival of religion here^ as I might have done, had I had such 
a thing in view at the time when God was most eminently 
carrying on his work among us : I entirely neglected then to 
note down any particulars in writing, for which I have been 
often sorry since ; so that this account must be very imper- 
fect to what it might otherwise have been. 

'' That it may the more clearly appear that the Lord has 
indeed carried on a work of true real religion among ns of 
late years, I conceive it will be useful to give a brief general 
view of the state of religion in these parts, before this re- 
markable season. I doubt not then but there were some 
sincerely religious people up and down ; and there were, I 
believe, a considerable number in the several congregatianSy 
pretty exact, according to their education, in the observance 
of the external forms of religion, not only as to attendance 
upon public ordinances on the sabbath, but also, as to the 
practice of family worship, and perhaps, secret prayer too : 
but with these things the most part seemed to all appearance 
to rest contented ; and to satisfy their consciences with 
a dead formality in religion. If they performed these duties 
pretty punctually in their seasons, and as they thought with a 
good meaning.out of conscience, and not just to obtain a name 
for religion among men ; then they were ready to conclude 
that they were truly and sincerely religious. A very lament- 
able ignorance of the main essentials of true practical reli- 
gion, and the doctrines neztly relating thereunto, very gener- 
ally prevailed. The nature and neisessity of the new birth, 
was but little known or thought of. The necessity of a 
conviction of sin and misery, by the Holy Spirit opening and 
applying the law to the conscience, in order to a saving 
closure with Christ, was hardly known, at all, to the most. 
It was thought, that if there was any need of a heart-dis- 
tressing sight of the soul's danger, and fear of divine wrath, 
it was only needful for the grosser sort of sinners : and for 
any others to be deeply exercised this way (as there might 
sometimesbe before, some rare instances observable) this was 
generally looked upon to be a great evil and temptation, that 



THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. 269 

had befiillen those persons. The common names for such 
flonl-concem were, melancholy, trouble of mind, or despair. 

These terms were in common, so far as I have been ac- 
quainted^ indifferently used as synonymous ; and trouble of 
mind, was looked upon as a great evil, which all persons 

that made any sober profession and practice of religion 
ought carefully to avoid. There was scarcely any suspicion 
at all, in general, of any danger cf depending upon self- 
righteousness, and not upon the righteousness of Christ alone 
for salvation. Papists and Quakers would be readily ac- 
knowledged guilty of this crime ; but hardly any professed 
Presbyterian. The necessity of being first in Christ by a 
vital union, and in a justified state, before our religious ser- 
vices can be well pleasing and acceptable to God, was very 
little understood or thought of: but the common notion 
seemed to be, that if people were aiming to be in the way 
of duty as well as they could, as they imagined, there was 
no reason to be much afraid. 

''According to these principles, and this ignorance of some 
of the most soul-concerning truths of the gospel, people were 
very generally through the land, careless at heart, and stu- 
pidly indifferent about the great concerns of eternity. There 
was very little appearance of any hearty engagedness in 
religion: and indeed the wise, fur the most part, were in a 
great degree asleep with the foolish. It was sad to see 
with what a careless behaviour the public ordinances were 
attended, and how people were given to unsuitable worldly 
discourse, on the Lord's holy day. In public companies, 
especially at weddings, a vain and frothy lightness was ap- 
parent in the deportment of many professors : and in some 
places, very extravagant follies, as horse-running, fiddling 
and dancing, pretty much obtained, on those occasions. 

Thus, religion lay as it were a dying, and ready to expire 
its last breath of life in this part of the visible church : and 
it was'in the spring of 1740, when the God of salvation was 
pleased to visit us with the blessed effusions of his holy spi- 
rit in an eminent manner. The first very open and public 
appearance of this gracious visitation in these parts, was in 
the congregation which God has committed to mv cVv«>x^^* 



■ *%. 1^'^-- ■■'■ ■'• •'- 

270 ^:l THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. V;' .-. 



This congregation has not hcen erected ahove fourteen or 
fifteen years from this time : the place is a new settlementy 
generally settled with people from Ireland (as all oar con* 
gregations in Pennsylvania, except two or three, chiefly are 
made up of people from that kingdom).* I am the first 
minister they have ever had settled in the place ; haying been 
regularly liberated from my former charge, in East Jersey, 
above an hundred miles north-eastward from hence; the 
reverend presbytery of New Brunswick of which I had the 
comfort of being a member, judging it to be my duty, for 
sundry reasons, to remove from thence. At the earnest in- 
vitation of the people here, I came to them in the beginning 
of November, 1739 ; accepted of a call from them that win- 
ter, and was formally installed and settled among them as 
their minister, in April following. There were some hope- 
fully pious people here at my first coming, which was a 
great encouragement and comfort to me, 

"I had some view and sense of the deplorable condition of 
the land in general; and accordingly the scope of my 
preaching through that first winter after I came here, was 
mainly calculated for persons in a natural unregenerate 
state. I endeavoured, as the Lord enabled me, to open np 
and prove from his word, the truths which I judged most 
necessary for such as were in that state to know and believet 
in order to their conviction and conversion. I endeavoured 
to deal searchingly and solemnly with them : and through 
the concurring blessing of God, I had knowledge of four or 
five brought under deep convictions that winter. 

* " It may be convenient here to observe, that in Ireland, are three 
dificrent sorts of people, deriving from three several nations : 1. those 
who descend from the ancient Irish; and theae are generally 
Roman Catholics. 2. Those who descend from ancestors who came 
from England ; and these are generally Church of England men. 
3. Those who descend from ancestors who came from Scotland since 
the Keformation : and these are generally Presbyterians; who chiefly 
inhabit the northerly parts of Ireland : and these are the people who 
have of late years in great numbers, removed thence into these Ame* 
rican regions. 






THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. ^ 271 

<«Iii the beginning of March, I took a journey into East 
Jersey ; and was abroad for two or three Sabbaths : a neigh- 
bouring miniBter, who seemed to be earnest for the awaken- 
ing and conversion of secure sinners, and whom I had 
obtained to preach a Sabbath to my people in my absence, 
preached to them, I think, on the first Sabbath after I left 
home: his subject was the dangerous and awful case of such 
as continue unrc^generate, and unfruitful under the means of 
grace. The text was Luke, ziii. 7. * Then said he to the 
dresser of his vineyard. Behold, these three years I come 
seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none ; cut it down, 
why cumbereth it the ground ? Under that sermon, there 
was a visible appearance of much soul-concern among the 
hearers ; so that some bursL out with an audible noise into 
bitter crying ; a thing not known in these parts before. 
After I had come home, there came a young man to my 
house, under deep trouble about the state of his soul, whom 
I had looked upon as a pretty light merry sort of a youth : 
he told me that he was not anything concerned about him- 
self in the time of hearing the above-meiitioQed sermon, nor 
afterwards, till the next day that he went to his labour, 
which was grubbing, in order to clear some new ground. 
The first grub he set about, was a pretty lurge one, with a 
high top, and when he had cut the roots, as it fell down, 
these words came instantly to his remembrance, and 4U a 
spear to his heart, *cut it down, why cumbereth it the ground?* 
So, thought he, musi I be cut down by the justice of God, 
for the burning of hell, unless I get into another state than I 
am now in. He thus came into very great and abiding dis- 
tress, which, to all appearance, has had a happy issue ; his 
conversation being to this day as becomes the gospel of 
Christ. 

" The news of this very public appearance of deep soul- 
concern among my people, met me a hundred miles from 
home ; I was very joyful to hear of it, in hopes that God was 
about to carry on an extensive work of converting grace 
amongst them. And the first sermon I preached after my 
return to them, was from Matthew vL 33. ' Seek ye .first the 
kingdom of God, and his righteousness.' After opening up 






•■ ■$■ 



272 THE B£V. SAMUEL BLAIH. 

and explaining the parts of the text, when, in the improye- 
ment, I came to press the injunction in the text upon the un- 
converted and ungodly, and offered this as one reason among 
others, why they should now henceforth first of all seek the 
kingdom and righteousness of God, viz., that they had 
neglected too long to do so already: this consideration 
seemed to come and cut like a sword upon several in the 
congregation ; so that while I was speaking upon it, they 
could no longer contain, but burst out in the most bitter 
mourning. I desired them as much as possible, to restrain 
themselves from making any noise, that would hinder them- 
selves or others from hearing what was spoken : and often 
afterwards I had occasion to repeat the same counsel : I 
still advise people to endeavour to moderate and bound their 
passions, but not so as to resft or stifle their conviction. 
The number of ihe awakened increased very fast : freqnently 
under sermons there were some newly convicted, and 
brought into deep distress of soul about their perishing 
estate. Our Sabbath assemblies soon became vastly large: 
many people from almost all parts around, inclining very 
much to come where there was such appearance of the di- 
vine power and presence. I think there was scarcely a ser- 
mon or lecture preached here through that whole summer, 
but there were manifest evidences of impressions on the 
hearers ; and many times the impressions were very great 
and general : several would be overcome and fainting ; 
others deeply sobbing, hardly able to contain ; others crying 
in a most dolorous manner; many others more silently 
weeping : and a solemn concern appearing in the counte- 
nances of many others. And sometimes the soul-exercises 
^ of some (though comparatively but very few) would so far 
affect their bodies, as to occasion some strange unusual 
bodily motions. I had opportunities of speaking particularly 
with a great many of those, who afforded such outward 
tokens of inward soul-concern in the time of public worslnp 
and hearing of the word : mdeed, many came to me o£ 
themselves in their distress, for private instruction and coun- 
sel ; and I found, so far as I can remember, that with by far 
the greater part their apparent concern in public wa« not 



THE BEV. SAMUEL BLAIR. : «7| 

» transieiit qqalm of conscience, or merely a iloAtki; 
QommocioB cif the affections ; but a rational fixed conTictioa 
of their dangerous perishing estate. They could generally 
offer as a convictive evidence of their being in an unconverted 
miserable estate, that they were utter strangers to those di«f 
positions, exercises, and experiences of soul in religion, 
which they heard laid down from God^s word, as the inse* 
parable characters of the truly regenerate people of Grod; 
even such as before had something of the form of religion ; 
and, I think the greater number were of this sort ; and 
several had been pretty exact and punctual in the perform- 
ance of outward duties ; they saw they had been contenting 
themselves with the form without the life and power ^ 
godliness; and that they had been taking peace to their 
consciences from, and depending upon their own righteous* 
ness, and not the righteousness of Jesus Christ. 

"In a word, they saw that true practical religion was quite 
another thing than they had conceived if to be, or had any 
true experience of. There were likewise many up and down 
the land, brought under deep distressing convictions that 
summer, who bad lived very loose lives, regardless of th^ 
irery externals of religion. lu this congregation, I believe 
there u ere very few that were not stirred up to some solemn 
thovghtfulness and concern more than usual about their 
Boals. The general carriage and behaviour of people w(i^ 
•. poop, yery Ttsibly altered. Those awakened were mach 
' given to riding in the Holy Scriptures, and other gopd 
books. Excellent books that had lain by much neglected^ 
were then much perused, and lent from one to another ; and U 
was a peculiar satisfaction to people, to find how exactly thf 
doctrines they heard daily preached, harmonized with thf 
fpctrines contained and taught by great and godly men i|^ 
other parts, and former times. The subjects of discount 
akoost always, when any of them were together, were t]|^ 
matters of religion and great concerns of their souls. JML 
nnsuitable, worldly, vain discourse on the Lord's day, seeo^ 
to be laid aside among them : indeed, for anything that ftp- 
pe^nsd, there seemed to be almost a universal reforroa^on in 
^his respect in o«r public assemblies, on the Lord's dtf* 



274 THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. 

«* There was an earnest desire in people after opportunities 
for public worship and hearing the word. I appointed, in 
the spring, to preach every Friday through, the sammer, 
when I was at home, and those meetings were well 
attended ; and at several of them, the power of the Lord 
was remarkably with us. The main scope of my preaching* 
through that summer, was, laying open the deplorable state 
of inan by nature since the fall, our ruined exposed case by 
the breach of the first covenant, and the awful condition of 
such as were not in Christ, giving the marks and characters 
of such as were in that condition : and, moreover, laying 
open the way of recovery, in the new covenant, through a 
Mediator, with the nature and necessity of faith in Christ 
the Mediator, &:c. I laboured much on the last mentioned 
heads ; that the people might have right apprehensions of 
the gospel-method of life and salvation. I treated much on 
the way of sinners closing with Christ by faith, and obtain- 
ing a right peace to an awakened wounded conscience: 
showing that persons were not to take peace to themselves 
on account of their repentings, sorrows, prayers, and reforma- 
tions ; nor to make tliese things the grounds of their adven- 
turing themselves upon Christ and his righteousness, and of 
their expectations of life by him : and that neither were 
they to obtain or seek peace in extraordinary ways, by 
Tisions, dreams, or immediate inspirations: but, by an un- 
derstanding view, and believing persuasion of the way of life, 
as revealed in the gospel, through the suretiship obedience 
and sufferings of Jesus Christ ; with a view of the suitable- 
ness and sufficiency of that mediatory righteousness of Christ, 
for the justification and life of law-condemned sinners : and 
thereupon, freely accepting him for their Saviour, heartily 
consenting to, and being well pleased with the way of sat 
ration, and venturing their all upon his mediation, from the 
warrant and encouragement afforded of God thereunto in his 
word, by his free offer, authoritative command, and sure 
promise to those that so believe. I endeavoured to show the 
fruits and evidences of a true faith, &c. 

"After some time, many of the convinced and distressed, 
afforded very hopeful satisfying evidence that the Lord had 



THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. . 215 

brought tbem to a true closure with Jesus Christ ; and that 
their distresses and fears had been in a great measure re- 
moved in a nght gospel-way, by believing in th«Son of God. 
Several of them had very remarkable and sweet deliver- 
ances this way. It was very agreeable to hear their accounts, 
how that when they were in the deepest perplexity and 
darkness, distress and difficulty, seeking God as poor con- 
demned hell-deserving sinners, the scheme of recovering 
grace through a Redeemer has been opened to their under- 
standings with a surprising beauty and glory, so that they 
were enabled to believe in Christ with joy unspeakable, and 
full of glory. It appeared that most generally the Holy 
Spirit improved for this purpose, and made use of some 
one particular passage or other of the Holy Scripture, 
that came to their remembrance in their distress : some gos- 
pel-offer or promise, or some declaration of God directly re- 
ferring to the recovery and salvation of undone sinners, by 
the new-covenant. But with some it was otherwise : they 
had not anv one particular place of Scripture more than an- 
other in their view, at the time. Those who met with such 
a remarkable relief; as their account of it was rational and 
scriptural, so, they appeared to have had at the time, the 
attendants and fruits of a true faith ; particularly humility, 
lore, and an affectionate regard to the will and honour of 
God : much of their exercise was in self-abasing and self- 
loathing ; and admiring the astonishing condescension and 
grace of God towards such vile and despicable creatures, 
that had been so full of enmity and disaffecton to him. They 
freely and sweetly, with all their hearts, chose the way of 
his commandments; their inflamed desire was to live to 
him for ever, according to his will ; and to the glory of his 
name. 

"There were others that had not such remarkable 
relief and comfort, who yet I could not but think were 
savingly renewed and brought truly to accept of and rest 
upon Jesus Christ, though not with such a degree of liveliness 
and liberty, strength and joy ; and some of those continued 
for a considerable time after, for the most part, under a very 
distressing suspicion and jealousy of their case. I was all 



276 THE HEV. SAMUEL BLAIR. 

along very cautious of expressing to people my judgment 
of the goodness of their states, except where 1 had pretty 
clear evidences from them, of their being savingly changed ; 
and yet they continued in deep distress, casting off all their 
evidences. Sometimes in such cases, I have thought it need- 
ful to use greater freedom that way than ordinary; hut 
otherwise, I judged that it could be of little use, and might 
easily be hu rtful. 

*'Beside those above spoken of, whose experience of a work 
of grace was in a good degree clear and satisfying, there 
were some others (though but very few in this congregation, 
that I knew of) who, having very little knowledge or capa- 
city, had a very obscure and improper way of representing 
their case. In relating how they had been exercised, they 
would chiefly speak of such things as were only the effects 
of their soul exercise upon their bodies, from time to time, 
and some things that were purely imaginary : which ohliged 
me to be at much pains in my inquiries, before I could get 
any just ideas of their case. I would ask them, what were 
the thoughts, the views and apprehensions of their minds, 
and exercise of their affections, at such times when they 
felt, perhaps, a quivering come over them, or a faint- 
ness, or thought they saw their hearts full of some 
nauseous filthiness; or when they felt a heavy weight 
or load at their hearts, or felt the weight again taken 
off, and a pleasant warmness rising from their hearts, as they 
would probably express themselves, which might be the 
occasions or causes of these things they spoke of; and then, 
when with some difficulty I could get them to understand 
me, some of them would give a pretty rational account of 
solemn and spiritual exercises : and after a thorough careful 
examination this way, I could not but conceive good hopes of 
some such persons. 

" But there were, moreover, several others, who seemed 
to think concerning themselves that they were under some 
good work, of whom yet I could have no reasonable ground 
to think that they were under any hopeful work of the 
Spirit of God. As near as I could judge of their case iioin 
all my acquaintance and conversation with then, it was 



THS REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. 277 

much to this purpose. Theybelieved there was a good work 
going on ; that people were convinced, and brought into a 
converted state ; and they desired to be converted too. They 
saw others weeping and fainting, and heard people mourn- 
ing and lamenting, and they thought if they could be like 
these it would be very hopeful with them ; hence, they en- 
deavoured just to get themselves affected by sermons, and 
if they could come to weeping, or get their passions so raised 
as to incline them to vent themselves by cries, now they 
hoped they were got under convictions, and were in a very 
hopeful way ; and afterwards, they would speak of their 
being in trouble, and aim at complaining of themselves, but 
seemed as if they knew not well how to do it, nor what to 
say against themselves ; and then they would be looking 
and expecting to get some texts of scripture applied to them 
for their comfort ; and when any scripture text which they 
thought was suitable for that purpose, came to their minds, 
they were in hopes it was brought to them by the Spirit of 
God, that they might take comfort from it. And thus, much 
in such a way as this, some appeared to be pleasing them- 
selves with an imaginary conversion of their own mak- 
ing. I endeavoured to correct and guard against all such 
mistakes so far as I discovered them, in the course of my 
ministry ; and to open up the nature of a true conviction by 
the Spirit of God, and of a saving conversion. 

" Thus I have given a very brief account of the state and 
progress of religion here through that first summer after the 
remarkable revival of it amon^ us. Towards the end of 
that summer, there seemed to be a stop put to the further 
progress of the work as to conviction and awakening of sin- 
ners ; and ever since there have been very few instances of 
persons convinced. It remains then, that I speak some- 
thing of the abiding effects and after fruits of those awaken- 
ings and other religious exercises which people were under 
during the above mentioned period. Such as were only 
under some siii^ht impressions and superficial awakenings, 
seem in general to have lost them all again without any 
abiding hopeful alteration upon them. They seem to have 
fallen back again into their former carelessness and stut^vdv^ 



278 THE llEV. SAMUEL BLAIR. 

and some that were under pretty great awakenings, and con* 
siderably deep convictions, of their miserable state, seem also 
io have got peace again to their consciences without getting 
it by a true faith in the Lord Jesus; affording no satisfying 
evidence of their being savingly renewed. But, through 
the infinite rich grace of God (blessed be his glorious 
name !) there is a considerable number who afford all the 
evidence that can be reasonably expected and required for 
our satisfaction in the case, of their having been the sub- 
jects of a thorough saving change : (except in some singu- 
lar instances of behaviour, which alas ! proceed from, 
and shew the sad remains of original corruption even in 
the regenerate children of God, while in this imperfect 
state) their walk is habitually tender and conscientious, 
their carriage towards their neighbours just and kind, and 
they appear to haye an agreeable peculiar love one for an- 
other ;' and for all in whom appears the image of God. 
Their discourses of religion, their engagedness and disposi- 
tions of soul in the practice of the immediate duties and or- 
dinances of religion, all appear quite otherwise than former- 
ly. Indeed, the liveliness of their affections in the ways of 
religion is much abated in general, and they are in some 
measure humbly sensibly of this and grieved for it, and are 
carefully endeavouring still to live unto God ; much grieved 
with their imperfections and the plagues they find in their 
own hearts ; and frequently they meet with some delightful 
cnliveningsof soul ; and, particularly, our sacramental solem- 
nkies for communicating in the Lord's Supper, have general- 
ly been very blessed seasons of enlivening and enlargement 
to the people of God. There is a very evident and great 
increase of Christian knowledge with many of them. We 
enjoy in this congregation the happiness of a great degree 
of harmony and concord ; scarcely any have appeared with 
open opposition and bitterness against the work of God 
among us, and elsewhere up and down the land : though 
there are a pretty many such in several other places through 
the countiy : some, indeed, in this congregation, but ver}' 
few, have separated from us and joined with the ministers 
who have unhappily opposed this blessed work. 



THE REVk SAMUJSL BLAIR. 279 

*' It would have been a great advantage to this acccunt» 
had I been careful in time to have written down the experi- 
ences of particular persons : but this I neglected in the pro- 
per season. However, I have more lately noted down an 
account of some of the soul exercises and experiences of one 
person, which I think may be proper to make public on this \ ^ 
occasion. The person is a single young woman, but I 
judge it proper to conceal her name, because she is yet liv- 
ing. I was very careful to be exact in the afiair, both in 
my conversing with her, and writing the account she gave 
me of herself, immediately after. And though I don't pre- 
tend to give her very words for the most part, yet I am well 
satisfied I don't misrepresent what she related. The ac- 
count then is this; she was first brought to some solema 
though tfulness and concern about her soul's case, by seeing 
others so much concerned about their sculs : when she saw 
people in deep distress about the state of their souls, she 
thought with herself, how unconcerned she was about her 
own. And though she thought that she had not been very 
guilty of great sins, yet she feared she was too little concerned 
about her eternal well-being: and then the sermons she 
heard made her still uneasy about her case ; so that she 
would go home on the Sabbath evenings, pretty much 
troubled and cast down ; which concern used to abide with 
her for a few days after, but still, towards the end of the week 
she would become pretty easy ; and then, by hearing the 
word on the Sabbath days, her uneasiness was always re- 
newed for a few days again. And thus it fared with her, 
until one day as she was hearing a sermon preached from 
Heb. iii. 15: * To day if you will hear his voice, harden not 
your hearts.' The minister, in the sermon, spoke to this effect, 
' How many of you have been hearing the gospel for a long 
time, and yet your hearts remain always hard, without being 
made better by it : the gospel is the voice of God, but you 
have heard it only as the voice of man and not the voice of 
God, and 80 have not been benefited by it.' These words 
came with power to her heart. She saw that this was her 
very case ; and she had an awful sense of the sin of her mis- 
iniproveraont of the gospel, of her stupidity, hardness asA 



fSO THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. 

unprofitableness under the bearing of tbe word of Qod. She 
saw that she was hereby exposed to the sin-punishing jus- 
tice of God, and so was filled with very great fear and ter- 
ror : but she said there was no other sin at that time applied 
to her conscience, neither did she see herself as altogether 
without Christ. 

*' This deep concern, on the fore-mentioned accocmt, stuck 
pretty close by her after wards. There was a society of pri- 
yate Christians to meet in the neighbourhood, some day 
after, in the same week, for reading, prayer, and religious 
conference. She had nut been at a society of that kind be- 
fore, but she longed very much for the time of their meet- 
ing then, that she might go there: and while she was 
there, she got an awful view of her sin and corruption, and 
eaw that she was without Christ and without grace ; and 
her exercise and distress of soul was such, that it made 
her for a while both deaf and blind ; but she said she 
bad the ordinary use of her understanding, and begged 
that Christ might not leave her to perish, for she saw 
she was undone without him. After this she lived in 
bitterness of soul : and at another time she had such a view 
of her sinfulness, of the holiness and justice of God, and the 
danger she was in of eternal misery, as filled her with ex- 
treme anguish ; so that had it not been that she was sup- 
ported by an apprehension of God's all-sufficiency, she told 
me, she was persuaded, she should have fallen immediately 
into despair. She continued for some weeks in great dis- 
tress of spirit, seeking and pleading for mercy without any 
comfort ; until one Sabbath evening, in a house where she 
was lodged, during the time of a sacramental solemnity, 
while the family were singing the 84th Psalm, her soul 
conceived strong hopes of reconciliation with God through 
Jesus Christ, and she had such apprehensions of the happi- 
ness of the heavenly state, that her heart was filled with 
joy unspeakable and full of glory ; she sung wiih such ele- 
vation of soul, as if she had sung out of herself, as she ex- 
pressed it ; she thought at the time, it was as if the Lord 
had put by the veil and showed her the open glory of heaven : 
■he had very enlarged views of the sufficiency of Christ to 



#^ 



THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR. 281 

cave: she was clearly persuaded, to the fullest satisfaction, that there 
vraa merit enough in him to answer for the sins of the most guilty 
sinner; and she saw that God could well be reconciled to all elect 
sinners io his Son ; which was a most ravishing, delightful scene of 
contemplation to her. 

" But while she was in this frame, afler some time she thought 
Vfilh jierself, that notwithstanding all this, yet she could not wiik 
the full assurance of faith lay claim to the Lord Jesus as her own 
Saviour, in particular*; she could not say with such fiAl satisfaction 
and certainty as shfe desired, that he would be a Saviour, in paTticular, 
to her ; and hence, for want of thoroughly understanding wherein 
the very essence -of a saving fakh consists, she liad some jealous fear 
(hat she was not yet brought truly to beHeve in Christ. Howevor, 
«he was pietty free from her former terrors, after this sweet interview^ 
But afler some time, she grew more ^disconsolate, and more sensiUj 
afraid of her state, on the forementioncd account : she heard that 
sinners in closing with Christ by faith, received him for their Sftvioog 
which she thought included in it it persuasion that he was their'a» 
tn particular, and she could not clearly say that this had ever been 
lier case ; and so she came awfully to suspect herself to be as yet an 
unbeliever; and though she came in time to that sweet plerophory^ 
4U)d full assurance of faith ; yet she has since seen her mistake in 
that matter about the nature of a true and saving faith. She con- 
tinued very much under those grievous dejections, for abou^ two 
years, and yet enjoyed considerable swcr^ners and comfort, /at times. 
iShe often came to hear sermons with a dc.-^ire to get clearly •convinced 
of her being yet in a Christless state, and with a formed resolution 
io'take and apply to herself what might be said in the sermon to the 
unconverted : but most commonly she returned very agreeably dis- 
appointed'; she would generally hear some mark of grace, some evi- 
dence of a real Christian laid down, which she could lay claim to^ 
and could not deny; and thus she was supported and comforted, 
from time to time. During these two year?, it was still with 
much fear and perplexity that she adventuied to communicate in ihe 
Lord's Supper; but she could not omit it; and she always found 
come refreshing and sweetness, by that ordinance. 

" After she had been so long under an almost alternate succeasion 
of troubles and supports, the sun of righteousness at last broke out 
upon her, to the clear satisfaction and unspeakable ravishment of her 
oou]« at a commnoion table. There her mind was jet into the i^ori- 

R2 




282 THE REr. SAMUEX BLAIR. 



mis mysteriM of redemption, with great enlargement ; while she meil* 
itated on the sufierings of the Lord Jesus, she thought wiA herself^ 
he was not merely a man who suffered £0 for sinners, but infinitely 
more than man, even the most high God, the eternal Son, equal with 
the Father : and she saw his being God, put an infinite histre and 
yalue upon his sufferings as man ; her heart was filled with 8 most 
unutterable admiration of his person, his merit and his love : she was 
enabled to believe in him with a strong self-evidencing faith ; she be- 
lieved that he had suffered for her sins ; that she was the very person 
who by her sins had occasioned his sufferings, and brought agony 
and pain upon him. The consideration of this filled her with the 
deepest abhorrence of her sins, and most bitter grief for them ; she 
said she could have desired with all her heart to have melted and 
dissolved her body quite away in that very place^ in lamentation and 
mourning over her sins. After this enjoyment, her soul was gener- 
ally delighting in God, and she had much of the light of his counte- 
nance with her : and Ohf her great concern still was, hqw she might 
live to. the Lord, how she might do anything for him, and give hon- 
our to him. The Lord condescended to be much with her by his 
enlivening and comforting presence, and especially, sacramental sea- 
sons were blessed and precious seasons to her. At one of those oc- 
casions, she was in a sweet frame, meditating on the blood and water 
that issued from the wound made by the spear m her Saviour's sHe; 
she thought, as water is of a purifying cleansing nature, so there was 
sanctifying virtue as well as justifying merit in the Lord Jesus ; and 
that she could no more be without the water, his sanctifying grace 
to cleanse her very polluted soul, than she could be without his blood 
to do away her guilt : and her heart was much taken up with the 
beauty and excellency of sanctification. At another time, a com- 
munion solemnity likewise, she was very full of delight and wonder 
with the thoughts of electing love ; how that God had provided and 
determined so great things for her before ever she had a being. And 
a very memorable enjoyment she had at another tirje, on Monday 
after a communion Sabbath, when these words came to her mind, * The 
Spirit and the bride say come, and let him that is athirst come, and 
whosoever will let him take the water of life freely.' The glory and 
delight let in upon her soul by these words was so great, that it quite 
overcame her bodily frame : she said it seemed to her that she was 
almost all spirit, and that the body was quite laid by ; and she was 
sometimes in hopes, that the union would actually break, and the soul 



THE REV. SAMUEL' BLAIR. 283 

get quite away. She Baw much at that time into the meaning of her 
Lord in those words, * Because I live ye shall livA also.' 

'* Respecting a time of sickness she had, concerning which I 
enquired of her, she told me, she expected pretty much to die then, 
and was very joyful at the near prospect of her change ; and sensi- 
bly grieved to find herself recover again, chiefly because, that while 
•he lived here she was so frail and sinful, and could do so little for 
the Lord's honour. I was with her in the time of that sickness, and 
indeed, I s<^cely ever saw one appearing to be so fully and sweetly 
satisfied under the afiUcting hand of God ; she manifestly appeared 
to lie under it with a peaceful serenity and divine sweetness in her 
whole soul. In a word, her whole deportment in the world, bespeaks 
much humility and heavenlincss of spirit, 

" One of our Christian friends, a man about fifty years of age, 
was removed from us by death in the beginnning of May last ; of 
whom I ean give some broken imperfect account, which perhaps may 
be of some use. His name was Hanse Kiikpatrick : he was a man 
of a pretty good understanding, and had been, I believe, a sober pro- 
fessor for many years, though he had not been very long in America* 
Afler the work of religion began so powerfully amongst us, I found 
in conversation with him, that he believed it to be a good work, but 
seemed very unwilling to give up his good opinion of his own case : 
he told me of some concern and trouble he had been in about his 
soul in his younger years ; but yet the case looked suspicious that 
he had got ease in a legal way, upon an outward form of religion* 
At another time, being at his house, and taking up a little book that 
lay by me on the table, which I found to be Bfr. Mather^s dead faith 
anatomized, and self-justiciary convicted,' he said to me, that was in- 
deed a strange book as ever he saw, and that according to that au- 
thor, it was a great thing indeed to have a right faith that was true 
and saving, another thing than it was generally supposed to be ; or 
to this purpose. He seemed to me at that time to be under more 
fears about his own case than I had observed in him before. Not 
long after this, as he was hearing a sermon, one day, the word was 
applied with irresistible evidence and power to his heart, so that he 
saw himself as yet in a perishing undone case : whereupon, the dis- 
tress and exercise of his soul was so great, that he fell off the seat on 
which he was sitting, and wept and cried, very bitterly. A little 
after this he went to Philadelphia, at the time of the meeting of the 
synod, in hopes that perhaps he might meet with some benefit to his 

R3 



284 THE RkV. SAMUEL BLAIK. 

soul, by hearing the. ministers preach there, or by converting with 
some of them. He told me afler wards, that while he was there, and 
as he walked the streets, he was unspeakably distressed with the 
^iew of his miserable condition ^ so that he could hardly keep his 
distress from being publicly discerned upon him : and, that he seemed 
sometimes to be eyen in a manner afraid that the streets woald open 
and swallow up such a wretched creature. He told me of his trouble, 
mod his very sweet relief out of it, in a most moving manner, under 
a very fresh sense and impression of both ; but the particulars of his 
reKef^ I have quite forgot. 

" He was afterwards chosen and set apart for a ruling elder in the 
congregation. He died of an imposthume, and gradually wasted 
away for a long time before his death, and was for about two months 
entirely confined to his bed. He told me, that for some time before 
he was laid bedfast, he had been full of very distressing fears and 
jealousies about his soul's state, and was altogether unsatisfied about 
bis interest in Christ ; but that soon after he was confined to his 
bed, the Lord afforded him his comforting presence, cleared up his 
inteicst, and removed his fears. After this, he continued still clear 
and peaceful in his soul, and sweetly and wholly resigned to the 
Lord's will, until death. While he had strength to speak much, he 
was free and forward to discourse of God and divine things. One 
time, as two other of our elders were with him, he exhorted them to 
continue steadfast and faithful to God's truths and cause; for, he said, 
if he had a thousand souls, he could freely venture them all upon the 
doctrines which had been taught them in this congregation. One 
time when I took leave of him, he burst out into tears, saying, ' I had 
been the rae-^senger of the Lord of hosts to him that the Lord had 
eent te call him out of the broad way of destruction.' For some 
days before his decease, he could speak but very little, but to all ap- 
pearance, with a great deal of serenity and aweetness of sdul, he fell 
asleep in Jesus. 

" There have been very comfortable instances of little children, 
among us. Two sisters, the one being about seven, the other about 
nine years of age,* were hopefully converted, that summer, when reli- 
gion was so much revived here. I discoursed with them both very 
lately, and from their own account, and the account of their pa- 
rents, there appears to have been a lasting and thorough change 
'wrought in them. They speak of their soul experiences with a very 
becoming giavity, and apparent impression of the things they apeak of. 

** The jmngeat was awakened by heaxin^ \1» wotd ^lea^hed : ahe 



TH£ REV. SAMUEL ^LAIR. 285 

told me bIw heard in sermons, that except persons were convinced and 
converted, they would surely go to hell ; and she knew she was not 
converted. This set her to praying with great earnestness, with tears 
afid cries ; yet her fears and distress continued for several days, until, 
one time, as she was praying, her heart, she said, was drawn out in 
great love to God ; and, as she thought of heaven, and being with 
God, she was filled with sweetness and delight : I could not find by 
her, that she had at that time any explicit particular thoughts abcmt 
Christ as a Redeemer, but, she said, she knew then that Christ bad 
died for sinners. She told me, she often found such delight and love 
to God since, as she did then, and at such times, she was very will- 
ing to die that she might be with God : but she said, she was some* 
times afraid yet of going to hell. I- asked her, * If she was troubled at 
any time when she was not afraid of going to hell V She said, 
'yes:' I asked her, *what she was troubled for, then V she said, 'be- 
cause she had done ill to God ;' meaning, that she had done evil, and 
sinned against God. Some time after she first found comfort, one 
night, when her father and all the rest of the family, but her mother 
and herself, were gone to a private society, she said to her mother, 
* that the people were singing and praying, where her father was 
gone,' and desiretl her mother to do the same with her : and after 
they were gone to bed, * she desired her mother to sing some psalms 
which she had by heart, for she said, she did not want to go to sleep. 

" Her sister was brought into trouble about her soul, that same 
summer, by sickness. It continued with her some time after her re- 
covery ; until one day, coming home from meeting, as ahe heard 
some people speaking about Christ and heaven, her heart wai 
inflamed with love to Christ She says, that * when she ha* Christ'e 
presence with her, she does not know what to do to get away and be 
with God.' Their patents told me, that for a long time they seemed to 
be almost wholly taken up in religion : that no weather, through the 
extremity of winter, wonld hinder them from going out daily to hf^ 
places for secret prayer ; and if anything came in the way that they 
could not get out for prayer, at such times as they inclined and thought 
most proper, they would weep and cry. Their parents say they are 
very obedient children, and strict observers of the Sabbath. 

** There are likewise other young ones in the place, of whom I 
know nothing to the contrary, but what they continue hopeful and 
religious, to thu day. 

"This blessed shower of divine influences, spread Tory much 



286 THE B^. SAMUEL BLAIR. 

through this proYince, that sammer : and was likewise cobsdetable in 
flome other places, bordering upon it. The accounts of some ministers 
b^ng something distinguished by their searching, awakening doctrine, 
and solemn pathetic manner of address, and the news of the effects 
of their preaching upon their hearers, seemed in some measure to 
awaken people through the country, to consider their careless and 
formal way of going on in religion ; and very much excited their 
desires to hear those ministers. There were several vacant congrega- 
tions without any «ettled pastors, which earnestly begged for their 
visits : and several ministers who did not appear heartily to put theii 
shoulder to help in carrying on the same work, yet then yielded ^ 
the pressing importunities of their people, in inviting those brethren 
to preach in their pulpits : so that they were very much called abroad, 
and employed in incessant labours, and the Lord wrought with them, 
mightily. Very great assemblies would ordinarily meet to hear them, 
on any day of the week ; and, oftentimes, a surprising power accom- 
panying their preaching, was visible among the multitudes of their 
hearers. It was a very comfortable enlivening time to God's people ; 
and great numbers of secure careless professors, and many loose 
irreligious persons, through the land, were deeply convinced of their 
miserable perishing estates ; and there is abundant reason to befiere 
and be satisfied, that many of them were in the issue, say- 
ingly converted to God. I myself, have had occasion to converse 
with a great many up and down, who have given a most agreeable 
account of very precious and clear experiences of the grace of God. 
Several, even in Baltimore, a county in the province of Maryland, 
who were bronght up almost in a state of heathenism, without 
almost any knowledge of the true doctrines of Christianity, afford 
very satisfying evidences of being brought to a saving acquaintance 
with God in Chript Jesus. 

** Thus, Sir, I have endeavoured to give a brief account of the re- 
viTal of religion among us, in these parts ; in which I have endea- 
Toured, all along, to be conscientiously exact, in relating things ac* 
cording to the naked truth : knowing, that I must not speak wickedly, 
even for God ; nor talk deceitfully, for Him. 

*' And upon the whole, I must say, it is beyond all dispute with 
me, and I think it is beyond all reasonable contradiction, that God 
has carried on a great and glorious work of his grace among us. 

" I am, Rev Sir, 

'* Your very respectful son and servant, 

"Samitsl Blaii. 



THE REV. SAMUEt BLAIR. ^87 

" RtT. SiH. 

'* Having an opportunity of obtaining these attestations before 
sending my letter to you, I send them also along, if you please they 
may be inserted in the Christian History, at the end of my account. 

S.B. 

" New Londonderry, August 7th, 1744. 

"We the subsciibers, ruling elders, in the congregation of 
New Londonderry, do give our testimony and attestation to the 
above account of the revival of religion in this congregation and other 
parts of this. country, so far as the said account relates to things that 
were open to public observation, and such things as we have had op- 
portunity of being acquainted with. Particularly, we testify, that 
there has been a great and very general awakening among people, 
whereby they have been stirred up to an earnest uncomm(« concern 
and diligence about their eternal salvation, according to the above 
account of it : and, that many give very comfortable evidence by 
their knowledge, declaration of experience, and consdentious pimo 
tice, of their being savingly changed and turned to God. 

James Cochrait, Johit Smith, 

John Ramsat, Johit Simsoit, 

John Loyk, Wm. Botd." 

Mr. Samuel Blair was truly a burning and a 
shining light : but like many others of this descrip- 
tion, while he warmed and enlightened others, he 
himself was consumed. Though his life was pro- 
tracted beyond the age attained by Davies and 
Brainerd ; yet he may be said to have died young ; 
for from the inscription on his tomb, it appears, that 
he was only thirty-nine years, and twenty-one days 
old, when he was taken away. His remains lie in 
the burying ground of Fagg's Manor ; where his 
tomb may yet be seen. The whole inscription is, 



288 THE RVr. SAMUEL BLAIR. 

** Here lieth the body of 

The Rev. Samuel Blair, 

Who departed this life, 

The 5th day of July 1751. 

Aged 39 years and 21 days." 

<< In yonder sacred house 1 spent my breath, 
Now silent, mouldering, here I lie in death ; 
These lips shall wake and yet declare, 
A dread amen, to truths they published there." 

Mr. Blair was one of the most learned and pro- 
found, as well as pious, excellent, and venerable men 
of his day. His deep and clear views as a theologian, 
are sufficiently evident from his treatise on " Predes- 
tination/' where this awful and mysterious doctrine 
is treated with the hand of a master. 

As a preacher, Mr. Blair was very eminent. 
There was a solemnity in his very appearance, 
which struck hii? hearers with awe, before he opened 
his mouth. And his manner of preaching, while it 
was truly evangelical and instructive, was exceed- 
ingly impressive. He spoke as in the view of eter- 
nity, as in the immediate presence of God. The 
opinion which Mr. Davies entertained of Mr. Blair 
as a preacher, may be learned from an anecdote re- 
ceived from Dr. Rodgers, by a person still living.* 
« When the Rev. Samuel Davies returned from Eu- 
rope, his friends were curious to learn his opinion of 
the celebrated preachers, whom he had heard in 
England and Scotland. After dealing out liberal 

* Rev. Dr. Miller. 



THE REV. SAMirijI^ BLAIR. 289 

commendations on such as he had most admired, he 
concluded by saying, that he had heard no one, who, 
in his judgment, was superior to his former teacher, 
the Rev. Samuel Blair. 

Mr. Blair was intimately associated with Mr. Gil- 
bert Tennent, in all his controversies with the S3niod 
of Philadelphia. He concurred in all the proceed- 
ings of the New Brunswick presbytery, in which 
they acted in opposition to the rule of the synod, 
requiring candidates to be examined by a committee 
of their appointment ; and in preaching within the 
bounds of -settled congregations, where the people 
reqiftsted it. He also united with Mr. Tennent in 
presenting to the synod complaints against the mem- 
bers of that body, by which proceedings the minds 
of the majority of the synod were so exasperated, 
that they introduced a solemn protest against the 
New Brunswick brethren, which led to an imme- 
diate separation of the parties ; a schism which con- 
tinued seventeen years, before it could be healed ; 
as has been already related. To ascertain, at this 
time, which of the parties were most to blame in 
these unhappy controversies and divisions, is not 
easy. Faults undoubtedly there were on both sides. 
The Old Side, were much to blame in setting them* 
selves in opposition to the revival of religion, which 
had so gloriously conunenced. By doing so, they 
incurred a fearful responsibility. That Tennent and 
Blair transgressed the rules of order, cannot be de» 



290 THE B^V. SAMUEL. BLIR. 

nied. They disobeyed the synod, and entered into 
the congregations of their brethren without their 
consent. Whether in these things they were excu- 
sable, will depend upon the true state of the church- 
\es, at that time. Our Saviour and his apostles, dis- 
regarded the orders of the priests and of the syna- 
gogue. And Luther and the other Reformers, did 
not feel themselves bound by the authority of the 
popish magistracy and priesthood. Every minister 
holds a commission to preach the gospel to every 
creature, to whom he can gain access ; and if a cer- 
tain number of people, who are anxious to hear the 
gospel, happen, by human arrangements, to b# cir- 
cumscribed within the limits of a parish, over which 
another has charge ; and if this nominal pastor is 
believed not so to preach the gospel as to lead the 
people in the way of salvation, why may not the 
faithful preacher disregard these human arrange- 
ments intended to promote order, and carry the gos- 
pel to those who are thirsting for the word of Ufe ? 
1 No doubt, the principle is liable to great abuse, 
land may occasion great disorder, and result in 
ynuch more evil than good.. The question in regard 
to these devoted men is, whether the people in the 
congregations of their opponents were really in such 
a perishing condition as would authorize them to 
overleap the fence, which, for the sake of order, had 
been set up. And this is the point which, in my 
^ opinion, we are incapable of deciding. Men may 



.d&i 



continue to maintain in theory an orthodox creed, 
and yet may manifest such deadly hostility to vital 
piety, that they must be considered the enemies of 
the cause of God^ and the work of the Spirit. That 
the opposen of the revival, at that time, did exhibit 
such a character cannot be asserted universidly, for 
some of theni appear to have been, in the main, sin- 
cere Christians, and only meant to set themselves in 
opposition to those opinions and practices, connected 
with the revival, which were reprehensible. 

But that many of those of the Old Side, manifesto 
ed a malignity of spirit against the revival, which 
was wicked in the extreme, I entertain no doubt. 
I have heard so much from aged J>ersons who were 
living in the midst of the revival ; aqd even the sub- 
jects of it, have given me such accounts of the ma- 
lign spirit with which the whole york was ridiculed 
and opposed, by many, that I cannot doubt, that, 
in a good degree, the contest between the parties, 
was, between the friends and the enemies of true re- 
ligion. And something of the same spirit of hostili- 
ty to revivals was handed down to our own times. 
I have known men of high standing in the church, 
and undoubted learning, who derided every account 
of revivals, and sudden conversions, as fanatical and 
foolish. It is, therefore, my deliberate opinion, that 
in the general, the Tennents and Blairs, and their % 
coadjutors, were men approved of God, and greatly 
honoured, as the instruments of winning many 



> 



:^ 



f^2 THE iKV. *AMirBifc BLAIR. 

souls to Christ ; while their opponents, were for the 
most part, unfriendly to vital piety. 

But while I consider the ministers of the New- 
Brunswick presbytery, and their coadjutors, as the 
real friends and successful promoters of true religion, 
in this Ifltnd, I do not mean to exonerate them from 
all blame. They were men, and liable to human 
imperfections. Some of them were men of ardent 
temperament, and somewhat overbearing disposi- 
tion ; and under the influence of a fervid zeal, they 
did ajid said many unadvised things. When the 
Btate of the church became more settled, and the 
jwarmth of their feelings had subsided, they them- 
I selves viewed matters in a very different light from 
'what they had* done, in the heat of the controversy. 



4>. 



tJI 



# -#' 



V 



.■\ 



CHAPTER XV. 

■■.■ 

I- 

THE REV. JOHN BLAIR. 

Education — First settlement — Driven away by the Indiins— Is 
called to Fagg's Manor — Continues the school — Elected Professor 
of Theology in Nassau Hall — Resigns on the arrival of Dr. With- 
erspoon — Removes to Orange County, N. Y. — His end— ^The fam- 

* ily of the Blairs. 

The Rev. John Blair^ was a younger brother 
of the person, wliose memoir is given in the preced- ■ 

ing chapter. He was also an alumnus of the Log \/ sr. 
College, and as a theologian was^not inferior to any 
man in the Pfesbylerian churcfi, in his day. He 
was first settled in i Pennsylvania, at Big Spring 
(now Newville) in the Cumberland Valley, in the 
vicinity of Carlisle. But by reason of the hostile 
incursion of the Indians, his. people were obliged to 
leave their rude habitations, on the frontier, and to 
retreat into the more densely populated part, of the 
colony. Mr. Blair, it would seem, never returned 
to the place whence he had been driven by the in- ^ 
vasion of the savages, but upon the decease of his 
brother Samuel, he received and accepted a call to 
be his sucressor, at Fagg^s Manor; and that not ^ 



■ t 



294 THE BEY. JOHN. S^AIR. 

only as pastor of the church, but also as the teacher 
of the school which his brother had instituted in 
that place. In this important station he continued 
for nine years ; and though not equal to his brother 
as an impressive preacher, as a scholar and as a 
theologian, he was not inferior. 

New Jersey College having been founded for the 
very purpose of giving a complete education to can- 
didates for the ministry, these academies, which had 
done so much for the church, no longer had the 
same importance, as when no such institution ex- 
isted. Accordingly, not only did the Log Collegg, 
at 'Neshaminy, which was the mother institution, 
cease, as soon as the college was erected, but the 
celebrated school at Nottingham, was not continued 
after Dr. Finley was chosen president of Nassau 
Hall. And when Dr. Finley died, a sum of money 
having been left for the support of a professor of 
divinity ; Mr. John Blair was elected, professor of 
theology, in the College of New Jersey. This invi- 
tation he accepted, and removed to Princeton. He 
was also appointed vice president of the college, 
and until the arrival 'of Dr. Witherspoon, performed 
all the duties of president. 

The funds of tlie college not being adequate to 
; support a professor of theology, distinct from the 
president; and it being known that Dr. Wither- 
spoon was an orthodox and eminent theologian# 
who could consistently with his other duties teach 



THS BSV. JOHN BLAIR. 295 

theology, Mr. Bkir judged it would be expedient 
for him to resign. Upon this he received a call to 
settle as pastor of a Presbyterian congregation in 
Wallkill, Orange county, New York. Here he con- 
tinued to labour in the dutie* of the ministry, until 
he was called away from the field, by deathj which 
occurred, Dec. 8, 1771, when he was not more than 
fifty-one, or fifty-two years of age. 

The character of Mr. John Blair is thus drawn, by 
a writer of a sketch of his life, in the " Assembly's 
Magazine.'' 

" John Blair, an eminent mhiister of Pennsylva- 
nia, was ordained to the pastoral charge of three 
congregations in Cumberland county, as early as 
1742. These were frontier settlements, and ex- 
posed to the depredation of the Indians, with whom 
a state of war then existed ; and he was obliged to 
remove. He accepted a call from Fagg's Manor, 
in 1757. The congregation had been favoured 
with the ministry of his brother, Samuel Blair. And 
here he continued about nine years; and besides 
discharging the duties of the ministry, he superin- 
tended also a flourishing grammar-school, and pre- 
pared many young men for the ministry. When 
the presidency of New Jersey college became va- 
cant, by the death of Dr. Finley, he was chosen 
professor of divinity, and had for some time, the 
charge of that seminary before the arrival of Dr. 
Witherspoon. 



296 THE BEV. JOHN BLAIR. 

"He was a judicious and persuasive preacher, 
and through his exertions sinners were converted, 
and the children of God edified. Fully convinced 
of the truth of the doctrines of grace, he addressed 
immortal souls with that warmth and power, which 
left a witness in every bosom. Though he some- 
times wrote his sermons in full, yet his common 
mode of preaching was by short notes, comprising 
the general outlines. His labours were too abun- 
dant to admit of more ; and no more was necessary 
to a mind so richly stored with the great tniths of 
religion. For his large family he amassed no for- 
tune, but he left them what 'was infinitely better, a 
religious education, a holy example, and prayers 
which have been remarkably answered. His dis- 
position was uncommonly patient, placid, benevo- 
lent, disinterested, and cheerful. He was too mild 
to indulge bitterness or severity; and he thought 
that the truth required little else but to be fairly 
stated and properly understood. Those who could 
not relish the savour of his piety, loved him as an 
amiable, and revered him as a great man. Though 
no bigot, he firmly believed that the presbyterian 
form of government is most scriptural, and the most 
favourable to religion and happiness. 

" In his last sickness, he imparted his advice to the 
congregation, and represented to liis family the ne- 
cessity of an interest in Cinist. A few nights before 
he died, he said, ' Directly, I am going to glory— 
my Master calls me, I must be gone.' " 



THE REV. JOHN BLAIR. 297 

Mr. John Blair left behind him a treatise on Re- 
generation, which is ably writen and entirely or- 
thodox. He also published a treatise on the Scrip- 
tural Terms of admission to the Lord's Supper, in 
which he maintains that ministers and church offi- 
cers, have no more authority to debar those who 
desire to attend, from the Lord's table, than from 
any other duty of God's worship. This piece, the 
late Rev. J. P. Wilson, D. D., pastor of the First 
Presbyterian church, Philadelphia, had republished 
in a small selection of treatises on the Lord's Sup- 
per; from which it may be inferred, that he ap- 
proved the sentiments which it contains. 

It is always gratifying to a laudable curiosity to 
learn something respecting the families and descend- 
ants of men once eminent in the church ; although 
in the pursuit of this knowledge, we often meet with 
mortifying instances of a sad degeneracy. But when 
it is otherwise, it is always pleasing to the pious 
mind to be able to trace eminent piety and talents 
descending from generation to generation. Two 
of the sisters of Samuel and John Blair were mar- 
ried to distinguished ministers of the Presbyterian 
church : the one, to the Rev. John Carmichael, pas- 
tor of the church at the Forks of lirandywine ; who 
was also an eminent patriot, in the struggle of this 
country for independence. The other, was married 
to the Rev. Robert Smith, D.D., of Pequea, the fa- 
ther of three ministers, who were eminent in the 

S 



298 THE REV. JOHN BLAIR. 

Presbyterian church, and two of them distinguished 
presidents of hterary institutions. The Rev. Doctor 
Samuel S. Smith, was the first president of Hamp- 
den Sidney College in Virginia, and then the im- 
mediate successor of Dr. Witherspoon, as president 
of New Jersey College : the other, the Rev. John 
B. Smith, D.D., who succeeded his brother as presi- 
dent of Hampden Sidney, and was afterwards, 'the 
first president of Union College in Schenectady. He 
was an eloquent, evaugelical, and successful minis- 
ter. Under his ministry, in Virginia, commenced 
a powerful and extensive revival, the influence of 
which extended far and wide through the state, and 
also to North Carolina, and Kentucky. Mr. Wil- 
liam Smith, the third son, was a pious, judicious 
minister ; less distinguished than either of his bro- 
thers ; but his good old father was wont to say, 
that though William was inferior to his brothers 
in learning and eloquence, yet to comfort and edify 
the plain Christian, he was equal to either of them. 
The Rev. Samuel Blair, of Fagg's Manor, had a son 
of the same name, who was considered the most 
accomplished and promising young minister in the 
Presbyterian Church. He, at an early age, received 
a call to be colleague with the Rev. Mr. Sewall, in 
the old South Church, Boston. Before he was 
licensed, he had for some time acted as a tutor in his 
alma mater. The estimation in which he was held 
by the trustees of the college, may be learned from 



THE REV. JOHN BLAIR. 299 

the fact, that after Dr. Witherspoon had decUned the 
first invitation of the board, young Mr. Blair was 
elected president, before he was thirty years of age. 
But soon after his election, intelligence was received 
from Scotland, that if the call were repeated, Dr. 
Witherspoon would, in all probability, Sbccept the 
invitation. As soon as this was known to Mr. Blair, 
he immediately wrote to the president of the board, 
declining the office. This prompt and generous de- 
cision, freed the trustees from all the embarrassment 
in which otherwise they might liave been involved. 
Of course, the election of Mr. Blair could not have 
been known to Dr. Witherspoon, when he signified 
his willingness to accept the appointment ; and when 
he understood from what motives Mr. Blair had 
declined the office, he was much affected with the 
disinterestedness of the young man, and often spoke 
of it with admiration. 

But though the moruing of Mr. Blair's life wa« 
so bright, and promised so much to the church, the 
sanguine hopes of his friends were far from being 
realized in liis future usefulness. By being ship- 
wrecked on his way to Boston, he was much 
exposed ; and to this was attributed the decline of 
his health and spirits. He also lost, at this time, the 
whole of his manuscript sermons ; a loss which 
could not be suddenly repaired, and which affected 
his spirits not a little. He, therefore, did not remain 

long in Boston, but returned to Pennsylvania, where 

S2 



300 THE REV. JOHN BLAIR. 

he resided at the house of his father-in-law, Dr, 
Shippenjin Germantown, arid was very httle engaged 
ill the duties of his office, afterwards 5 although his 
hfe was protracted to a good old age. 

The writer having spent several summers in Ger- 
mantown, before Dr. Blair's decease, had the oppor- 
tunity of becoming well acquainted with him ; and 
found him to be a man of great refinement of mind, 
mild and amiable in disposition, and friendly to 
evangelical doctrine and practical piety. 

From the history of this popular young man, it 
may be inferred, that too much applause is a 
dangerous thing to a young minister. Another re- 
msurk which may be made, is, that for a young man to 
form a connexion, by marriage, with a rich and 
fashionable family, seldom ever works well for his 
usefulness in the ministry ; especially if his partner 
is of a gay and worldly disposition. And lastly, 
that speculation on deep points of theology, when 
the mind is not under a decided spiritual influence, 
is always attended with evil, even to those who at 
bottom are sincerely pious. 

One of the daughters of Samuel Blair, Sen., was 
married to a young minister from Virginia, the Rev. 
David Rice, and became the mother of a numerous 
progeny, who are now scattered through Virginia 
and Kentucky, to which last mentioned place Mr. 
Rice removed, and on the rising population of which, 
his evangelical labours and holy example, left a 
lasting impression. 



THE REV. JOHN iBLAlS. 301 

Mr. John Blair also had a son, educated at Prince- 
ton, New Jersey, who became a minister of the 
gospel. He graduated in the year 1775, soon after 
which, he went to the county of Hanover, in Vir- 
ginia, and became the principal of an academy, which 
had been established by the Rev. Daniel Mc Calla. 
While in this office, he applied himself to the study . 
of theology, without any instructor, and having passed 
the usual trials, to the approbation of the presbytery 
of Hanover, he was licensed to preach the gospel. 
The academy not prospering according to his 
wishes, Mr. Blair removed from Hanover to the 
city of Richmond, where he taught a classical 
school, at his own house, and preached alternately 
at Hanover meeting house, and in the Capitol, in 
Richmond. At this time, there was no Presbyterian 
church in Richmond ; but before Mr. Blair's death, 
and after Dr. Rice had collected a congregation and 
erected a church in the lower part of the city, Mr. 
Blair's hearers made an exertion, and built a hand- 
some church on Shockoe Hill. He was a sensible, 
pleasant man, and much respected by all the lead- 
ing characters in the city of Richmond ; but he pos- 
sessed a moderate degree of rehgious zeal, and no 
considerable fruits attended his ministry, as far as 
has come to our knowledge. 

Another son of the Rev. John Blair, also educated 
at Princeton, went to Kentucky, where it is under- 
stood that he was a respectable lawyer. 

S3 



CHAPTER XVI. 

THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY, D. D. 

Birth in Ireland — Immigration to America — Education at the Ijog 
College — Becomes a popular Preacher — A successful Itinerant — 
Settles at Nottingham, Md. — Institutes a Classical School — Emi- 
nent as a Teacher — Distinguished Scholars — Elected President of 
New Jersey College — Continues in this station five years — 
Seized with a Liver Complaint — Goes to Philadelphia to consalt 
Physicians — Dies there in the triumphs of Faith — Burial — ^Writ- 
ings. 

Dr. Finley was born iu the county of Armagh, 
in the province of Ulster, Ireland, in the year 1715, 
and was one of seven sons, who were all esteemed 
pious. One of his brothers, the Rev. James Finley, 
was an esteemed minister in the Presbyterian church; 
and although his talents were very inferior to those 
of his brother Samuel, yet he was reckoned to be 
eminently pious ; and continued laboriously to preach 
the gospel, until an advanced period of life. His 
latter years he spent in the western part of Pennsyl- 
vania, where he died some years before the dose of 
the last century. The writer remembers to have 
seen him at a meeting of the Virginia synod, m Lex- 
ington, in the year 1789. He was one of the 
pioneers who, amidst many hardships and privations. 



^^>'" 



THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 303 

carried the gospel to the settlers in the country round 
about Pittsburgh; and was the companion and 
coadjutor of such men as Mc Millan, Joseph Smith, 
Power, Patterson, Dod, Dunlap, &c. 

The parents of Dr. Finley were of Scotch descent, 
and were distinguished for their piety. Finding 
.their son to be of a quick capacity, and fond of 
learning, they resolved to give him the best educa- 
tion • which their circumstances would admit ; and 
-r^: after he had obtained the rudiments of an English 
. edupation, he was sent abroad some distance from 
home> to prosecute his studies. In this school, he 

^distinguished himself by his assiduity and his profi- 
::ipeTicf iiiflearning. 

Wb^he was in his nineteenth year, he emigrated 
from^likjM^ country, and came to America. He 
arnt^llpim PJfiladelphia on the 28th of September, in 
the year 17M. He appears to have become a sub- 
ject of divine grace, at a very early age. He has 
been heard to say, that when only six years old, he 
heard a sermon which made a deep impression on 
his mind, and the text of which he never forgot. 
From that day, he was seized with an ardent desire 
to become a minister of the gospel. And as he 
grew up, this desire continued to ripen and increase ; 
so that his purpose was early formed to devote his 
life to the service of God. Upon his coming to 
America, he steadily pursued his studies with a view 
to the holy ministry. And as he arrived in Phila- 



304 THE REV. SAMUEL PINLEY. 

I 

delphia, at the very time when Mr. Tennent's 
school was flourishing at Neshaminy, and as there 
was then no other institution in the Presbyterian 
church where young men were trained for the 
.ministry, there is the strongest probability that he 
'^{was a student at the Log College. This probability 
is strengthened by the fact, that he put himiself under 
the care of the New Brunswick Presbytery, most of 
the members of which were educated in this school. 
His license took place on the 5th of August, in the 
year 1740. Having received authority to preach, 
he itinerated extensively ; and as his pulpit talents 
were of a high order of excellence, he was greatly 
instrumental in carrying on the work of the Lord, 
which at that time prevailed in almost every part of 
the land. 

His labours in the gospel were greatly blessed m 
West Jersey ; — in Deerfield, Greenwich, and Cape 
May. He preached also for six months, with great 
acceptance, in the congregation to which Gilbert 
Tennent was afterwards called, in Philadelphia. 
His ordination took place on the 13th of October, in 
the year 1742. He was probably ordained as an 
evangelist, and continued to visit the places destitute 
of the stated means of grace, for several years ; and 
all accounts agree in ascribing much success to his 
itinerant labours. It was, probably, during this pe- 
riod, that he made a preaching incursion into Con- 
necticut. But so rigid were the laws of this land of 



THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 305 

Steady habits, that Mr. Finley, for preaching in a 
congregation in New Haven, was seized as a va- 
grant, by the civil authority, and carried beyond the 
Hmits of the colony. He does not appear to have 
been permanently settled as a pastor, until June, 
1744, when he accepted a call from Nottingham, 
Maryland. In this place, he remained for seventeen 
years.* 

In this place, he instituted an academy, with the 
view, chiefly, of preparing young men for the gos- 
pel ministry. This school was conducted with ad- 
mirable wisdom and success, and acquired a higher 
reputation than any other in the middle colonies ; so 
that students from a distance were attracted to it. 
Some of the most distinguished men in our comitry, 
laid the foundation of their eminence and usefulness, 
in this academy. At one time, there was a cluster 
of such young men, who all were afterwards dis- 
tinguished, and some of them, among the very first 
men in the country, as the following names well 
show. Governor Martin, of North Carolina; Dr. 
Benjamin Rush, of Philadelphia, and his brotherj^ 
Jacob Rush, an eminent and pious judge ; Ebenezer 
Hazard, Esq. of Philadelphia; Rev. James Waddel, 
D. D., of Virginia ; Rev. Dr. Mc Whorter, of New- 
ark, N. J. ; Col. John Bayard, speaker of ihe House 

* In Allen's American Biography, his continuance here is 
made to be only seven years ; but he went there in 1744, 
and rtmored in 1761. 



306 THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 

of Representatives ; Governor Henry, of Maryland, 
and the Rev. William M.'Tennent, of Abington, Pa. 
It would not be easy, in any country, to find such a 
constellation in one school, at the same time. That 
Dr. Finley was an accomplished scholar, and a skil- 
ful teacher, was universally admitted. Perhaps this 
country has not had better classical scholars formed 
any where, than in this school. The method of in- 
struction, in the Latin and Greek languages, was 
thorough and accurate. The scholars were carefully 
drilled in the application of the rules of syntax, and 
in the prosody of these languages. Dr. Finley 
boarded most of his pupils in his own house, and 
when they were met at meals, he was in the habit 
of relaxing from the severity of tlie pedagogue, and 
indulging in facetious remarks ; saying, that nothing 
>more helped digestion than a hearty laugh. His 
own temper was remarkably benignant and sweet, 
and his manners affable and polite. 

Dr. Finley had been seriously thought of before 
Mr. Davies was called to the presidency of Nassau 
Hall, and when Mr. Davies at first declined the in- 
vitation, he strongly recommended Dr. Finley. And 
it cannot be denied, that both in scholarship, and 
skill in teaching, the latter was far superior. Dr. Fin- 
ley too, was a much older man, and had been sev- 
eral years longer in the ministry. But Davies was 
a man of much more genius, and eloquence, and his 
acquaintance with English literature was far mots 



.... ■■ « 



THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 307 

perfect. The premature decease of so many presi- 
dents of New Jersey College brought forward a suc- 
cession of illustrious men, who have ever since re- 
flected honour on that literary institution. Dickin- 
son^ Burr, Edwards, Davies, and Finley, all tilled 
the presidential clmir, within five or six years. Dr. 
Finley was elected president, in the year 1761, and 
immediately entered on the duties of the office ; and 
the trustees were not disappointed in their expecta- 
tions of his wisdom and efficiency. As he was 
permitted to remain five years, in office, he had the 
opportunity of carrying into effect, plans for the im- 
provement of the institution, so that its reputation 
was greatly extended. Dr. Finley held correspond- 
ence with some of the learned men of Europe, 
among whom was Dr. Samuel Chandler, of Lon- 
don ; who, as appears by his letters, entertained a 
high esteem, and indeed, affectionate friendship, for 
his distant correspondent. It was through the in- 
fluence of this learned dissenter, that, without the 
knowledge of Mr. Finley, the degree of doctor of 
divinity was bestowed upon him by the University\/ 
of Glasgow ; which seems to have been the first in- 
stance of any Presbyterian minister, in America, 
receiving that honorary distinction. But if genius 
and theological learning could have commanded it, 
Dickinson, Burr, Edwards and Davies, would all 
have been distinguished, in the same way. But 
they need no such appendage to their names ; their 



308 THE REV. SAMUEL FINLIY. 

works have secured to them, a much higher honour, 
in the estimation of posterity. And it must be a 
mortification to many modest men, who bear the 
title of DOCTOR, that divines to whom they are con- 
scious that they are not fit to be compared, lived and 
died, without having their names distinguished by 
any such title. The disease by which Dr. Finiey's 
constitution was attacked, an obstruction of the 
liver, was supposed to have been contracted by too 
great assiduity in his studies, and too constant occu- 
pation in the public duties of his office. He did not 
die at home, but in the city of Philadelphia, whither 
He tad gone to consult physicians, respecting his 
disease. When informed by the physician who at- 
tended him, that nothing could be done to remove 
his malady, and that it must soon prove mortal, he 
expressed an entire resignation to the divine will, 
and from that time, was engaged in ^setting his 
house in order.' He said, " If my work is done, I 
am ready ; I do not desire to live a day longer, than 
I can work for God.'' At that time, however, he 
did not apprehend that his end was so near as it 
proved to be. His disease made rapid progress; 
and he was informed by one of his physicians, that 
he had but few days to live; on which, lifting up 
his eyes to heaven, he exclaimed, « Then, welcome. 
Lord Jesus.'' 

On the Sabbath preceding his death, he was in- 
formed by Dr. Clarkson, his brother-in-law, that he 



THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 309 

porceivocl a manifest alteration in his appearance, 
and that evidently his end was near. "Then," 
said he, " may the Lord bring me near himself! I 
have been waiting with a Canaan hunger for the 
promised land. I have often wondered that God 
suffered me to live. I have more wondered, that 
he ever called me to be a minister of his word. He 
has often afforded me much strength, which, though 
I have often abused. He returned in mercy. Oh ! 
faithful are the promises of God ! that I could 
see Him as I have seen Him in the sanctuary ! Al- 
though I have earnestly desired death, as the hire- 
ling pants for the evening shade ; yet will I wait all 
the days of my appointed time. I have often strug- 
gled with principalities and powers, and have been 
brought almost to despair — Lord, let it suffice !" 
Here he sat up ; and closing his eyes, he prayed, fer- 
vently, that God would show him his glory, before 
he should depart hence — ^that He would enable him 
to endure patiently to the end, — and particularly, 
that he might be kept from dishonouring the minis- 
try. He then resumed his discourse, and spoke as 
follows, " I can truly say, I have loved the service 
of God. I know not in what language to speak of 
my own unworthiness — ^I have been undutiful — I 
have honestly endeavoured to act for God, but with 
much weakness and corruption.^' He then lay 
down, but continuod to speak in broken sentences. 
" A Christian's death," said he, « is the best part of 



310 THE llEV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 

his experience. The Lord has made provision for 
the whole way : provision for the soul and for the 
body. that I could recollect Sabbath blessings ! 
The Lord hath given me many souls, as crowns of 
my rejoicing. Blessed be God, eternal rest is at 
hand. Eternity is but long enough, to enjoy my 
God. This, has animated me in my secret studies, 
I was ashamed to take rest here. that I could be 
filled with the fulness of God ! that fulness which 
fills heaven." Being asked whether he would 
choose to live or die, he replied, " to die — though I 
cannot but say, I feel the same strait that Paul did, 
that he knew not which to choose, ^for me to live 
is Christ, but to die is gain.^ But should God, by 
a miracle, prolong my life, I would still continue to 
serve Him. His service has ever been sweet to me. 
I have loved it much. I have tried my Master's 
yoke, and will never shrink my neck from it. " His 
yoke is easy and his biuden light.'* One said to 
him, " You are more cheerful and vigorous. Sir." 
* Yes. I rise or fall as eternal life seems nearer, or 
farther oflf." It being remarked, that he always 
used the expression, " dear Lord," in his prayers, 
he answered, " 0, He is very dear — ^very precious, 
indeed." — ^^ How pretty is it for a minister to die 
on the Sabbath — I expect to spend the remainder 
of this Sabbath in heaven." One of the company 
said, you will soon be joined to the blessed society 
of heaven ; you will forever hold intercourse with 



TH£ REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. • 311 

• 

Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and with the spirits of 
the just made perfect — with old friends and many 
old-fashioned people." « Yes, Sir," he replied with 
a smile, " but they are a most polite people nowP 
He expressed great gratitude to friends around him, 
Imd said, *« May the Lord repay you — ^may He bless 
*im6u;abuadantly, not only with temporal, but with 
'"fljpiiitual blessings !'' Turning to his wife, he said, 
*« I expect^ my dear, to see you shortly in glory." 
In this^ however, he was disappointed, for Mrs. Fin- 
ley continued to live, many years after her hus- 
band's decease. She was, a long time, completely 
blind ; but under this privation, manifested a pious 
and contented disposition ; being entirely resigned 
to the will of her heavenly Father. It was an edi- 
fying and refreshing thing for any person to pay a 
visit to her and her companion, Mrs. Hodge, with 
whom she lived. Their conversation was indeed in 
, heaven. But to return. Dr. Finley, seeing a mem- 
ber of the Second Presbyterian church present, said, 
" I have often preached and prayed among you, my 
dear Sir, and the doctrines I preached to you, are 
now my support, and blessed be God, they are with- 
out a flaw. May the Lord bless and prosper your 
church. He designs good for it yet, I trust." 

To a person from Princeton, he said, " Give my 
love to the people of Princeton, and tell them that 
I am going to die, and that I am not afraid te die." 
He would sometimes cry out, << The Lord Jesus will 




'f . ■* 



5i^ 



31 f THE REV. SAMUEL FINLET. 

take care of his* cause in this world !" Upon awak- 
ing the next morning, he exclaimed, " Oh what a 
disappointment I have met with — I expected, this 
morning to have been in heaven I" On account of 
extreme weakness, he was unable to speak much 
during tliis day, but what he did say was the lan- 
guage of triumph. The next morning, with a ^eos- 
ing smile on his countenance, he cried duty **" O, I 
shall triumph over every foe. The Lord hatb* given 
me the victory. I exult — I triumph. 'D that I 
could see untainted purity ! Now I know that it 
is impossi])le that faith should not triumph over 
earth and liell." " I think I have nothing to do but 
to die. Yet, perhaps I have — Lord show me my 
task." He then said, " Lord Jesus, into thy hands 
I commend my spirit — I do it with confidence — I 
do it with full assurance. I know that thou wilt 
keep that which I have committed to thee. I have 
been dreaming too fast of the time of my departure, 
for I find it does not come ; but the Lord is faithful, 
and will not tarry beyond the appointed time." 

In the afternoon of this day, the Rev. Elihu Spen- 
cer called to sec him, and said, " I have come, dear 
Sir, to see you confirm by facts the gospel you have 
been preaching, pray Sir, how do you feel ?" To 
which he replied, "full of triumph — I triumph 
through Christ. Nothing clips my wings, but tlie 
thoughts of my dissolution being prolonged. O, 
that it were to night ! My very soul thirsts for eler- 




f'd—M- 



THE REV. SAMUEL FINLE7. 313 

nal rest." Mr. Spencer asked him, " what he saw* 
in eternity to excite such vehement desires ?" " I 
see/* said he, "the eternal love and goodness of 
God. I see the fulness of the Mediator. I see the 
love of Jesus. . . to be dissolved, and to be with 
Him ! I long to be clothed with the complete right- 
IMnsness of Christ." He then desired Mr. Spencer 
to pray with him, before they parted, and said, " I 
have gained the victory over the devil. Pray to 
God to preserve me from evil^—to keep me irom 
dishonouring his great name in this critical hour ; 
and to support me with his presence in my passage 
through the valley of the shadow of death." 

The remainder of the evening he spent in taking 
leave of his friends, and blessing and exhorting such 
of his children as were present. He would fre- 
quently cry out, "Why move the tardy hours so 
slow ?" The next day terminated the conflict. He 
was no longer able to speak, but a friend having 
desired him to give a token by which it might be 
known, whether he still continued to triumph, he 
lifted up his hand, and uttered the word " Yes." 
About nine o'clock, he fell into a profound sleep, 
and appeared to be much more free from pain than 
he had been for many days before. He.contmued 
to sleep without changing his position, till about 
one o'clock, when he expired, without a sigh or a 
groan. During his whole sickness he was never 
heard to utter a repimng word, and in taking leave 






1* 

dl4 THE REV. SAMUEL FINLET. 

: Af his dearest friends, he was never seen to shed a 
tear, or to exhibit any sign of sorrow. 

His death occurred on the 16th of July, 1766, in 
the fifty-first year of his age. 

It was the purpose of Dr. Finley's friends to have 
his remains removed to Priqceton, and buried with 
his illustrious predecessors, who lie interred in the 
cemetery of that place ; but the heat of flie weather 
rendered it inconvenient to carry the body so fiw, 
and therefore he was buried by the side of his dear 
firiend, Gilbert Tennent, within the Second Presby- 
terian church. When this church was enlarged, 
the remams of both these venerable men were 
removed to the common burying ground of the 
congregation. Agreeably to his dying request, his 
body was carried to the grave, by eight members 
of the senior class of the College of New Jersey. 
The Trustees of the College, to show their respect 
for the deceased, caused a cenotaph to be erected 
in the cemetery of Princeton, in a line with the 
tombs of the other presidents, whose remains are 
there entombed. 

Dr. Finley was a person of low stature, and of a 
round and ruddy countenance. In the pulpit he 
was solemn, sensible, and sententious ; and some- 
times glowed with fervid animation. He was re- 
markable for sweetness of temper, politeness, and 
\^ generosity. He was also distinguished for diligence 
and punctuality in the performance of all his duties. 






THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 315 

His sermons were rather solid, than brilliant ; not 
hasty productions, but composed with care ; and 
while they were in a style pleasing to the cultivated 
mind, they were, at the same time, intelligible by the 
illiterate. 

Dr. Finley was twice married; first, to Sarah 
Hall, by whom he had eight jchildren. She died in 
the year 1760, before he left Nottingham. His 
second wife was Ann Clarkson, daughter of Mr. 
Clarkson, merchant of New York, who was a lineal 
descendant of the Rev. David Clarkson, B.D., one 
of the two thousand ministers, ejected for non-con- 
formity in England, in the year 1662. His second 
wife survived him forty-one years. His son Ebene- 
zer Finley, was a physician in Charleston, S. C, 
where his descendents still dwell and are respecta- 
ble, and generally pious. One of his daughters was 
married to Samuel Breeze, Esq., of Shrewsbury, 
New Jersey, who was the mother of the wife of the 
Rev. Jedediah Morse, D.D. ; consequently, the inge- 
nious and respectable sons of Dr. Morse, now resi- 
dent in the city of New Yorlc, are the great grand- 
sons of Dr. Finley. 

Dr. Finley wrote no work of any considerable 

size ; but published several sermons and essays, 

which however are nearly out of print. In 1741, 

he published a sermon on Matt. xii. 28, entitled, 

"Christ Triumphing and Satan Raging." In 

1743, "A Refutation of Mr. Thompson's Ser- 

T 




316 THE REV. SAMUEL FINLET. 

MON ON Conviction." And in the same year, a 
treatise against the Moravians, entitled ^ Satan 
Stripped op his Evangelical Robe." 

In 1747, a Treatise against the Antipedobaptism 
of Abel Morgan, entitled, "A Plea for the 
Speechless." 

And in 1749, he published a sermon, preached at 
the ordination of the Rev. Dr. Rodgers, at St. 
George's, March, 1749. 

Also, a sermon on the death of the Rev. Samuel 
Davies, his predecessor in the college, which is pre- 
fixed to most editions of Davies's Sermons. 

To which may be added, " A Sermon, occasioned 
by the death of the Rev. Gilbert Teiment," preached 
n the Second Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia. 

It would be desirable, if we had the materials, to 
give a history of the flourishing and important aca- 
demical institutions which arose out of the Log 
College, and which were conducted on the same 
principles, and with the same views, by men who 
had received their education in that school. And 
it would be gratifying to our readers, we doubt not, if 
we were to annex some biographical account of the 
eminent men who proceeded from these academies, 
prior to the erection of the College of New Jersey. 
Such, for example, as the Rev. Samuel Davies, the 
Rev. John Rodgers, D.D., the Rev. Dr. McWhorter, 
the Rev. Mr. Cumming, and the Rev. Dr. Waddel ; 
but this would carry us much beyond our prescribed 



Til£ REV. SAMUEL FINLET. 317 

limits ; and in regard to several of the most distin- 
guished of the persons mentioned, would lead us 
over ground which has already been occupied by 
abler hands. 



T« 



CHAPTER XVII. 

THE REV. WM. ROBINSON. 

An Englishman — Occasion of his Emigration — Teachei in New 
Jersey and in Delaware — Is converted — Joins the Presbyteriana — 
Studies at the Log College — Seeks out the Destitute — Taken up 
in Virginia — Permitted to proceed — Visits Cub Gmk — Conver- 
sion of David Austin — Sent for to Hanover — Extraordinary Re- 
ligious awakening — Success of his labours — Mr. Davies's Letter 
to Mr. Bellamy — Preaches in New York with his wonted succew 
— Also in Maryland — Died early — None of the circumstances of 
his end have come down — Lffl no writings. 

Concerning the early history of this successful 
evangelist, very little is known. The only account 
which the writer has met with, is that found in a 
note, in the " Life of the Rev. Dr. Rodgers," by the 
Rev. Dr. Miller. It is here stated, « that Mr. Robin- 
son was the son of a wealthy Quaker in England. 
-^JBeing permitted to pay a visit of a few weeks, to an 
aunt in the city of London, from whom he had con- 
eidefi9.ble expectations, he greatly overstaid the time 
which had been allowed him ; and becoming deeply 
involved in the dissipations of the town, he incurred 
large debts, which he knew his father would never 
pay, and which his aunt refused to discharge. In 
this situation, fearing to return home, and unable to 



;- 



■ « r.- ■ ' ^ "^ 

-'■■•» 

THE REV. WM. R0BIN80X. 319 

remain longer in London, he determined to quit hiiiSf 
native country, and seek his fortune in America. In .jv 
this determination, his aunt reluctantly acquiesced, ,'^.. 
and furnished him with a small sum of money for -■ 
the purpose. Soon after his arrival in America, he 
had recourse for subsistence to teaching a school in 
New Jersey, in the bounds of the presbytery of^?; 
New Brunswick. He had been for some time 
engaged in this business, without any practical sense 
of religion, when it pleased God to bring him to a 
knowledge of himself, and the way of salvation, in 
a remarkable manner. He was riding at a late 
hour one evening, when the moon and stars shone 
with unusual brightness, and when every thing 
around him was calculated to' excite reflectiou. 
While he was meditating on the beauty and grandeur 
of the scene which the firmament presented, and was 
saying to himself, how transcendently glorious must 
be the Author of all this beauty and grandeur, the 
thought struck him with the suddenness and force 
of lightning, < But what do I know of this God ? 
Have I ever sought his favour, or made him my 
friend ?' This happy impression, which proved by 
its permanency and its effects, to have come from the 
best of all sources, never left him until he took 
refuge in Christ as the hope and life of his soul.*' 

It appears from some circumstances of the life of 
the Rev. Samuel Davics, that Mr. Robinson also 
taught a classical school in the state of Delaware ; 



■ » 



■ ■ ■ ■ . , • . _■ . k >>» « I 

" ".' ■ "■* 

' V. ■ 

320 THE REV. WM. ROBINSON. 

* for it is mentioned that Mr. Davies, when a boy 

• was one of his pupils ; and his parents, we know, \ 
■r^': resided in the state of Delaware. 

After Mr. Robinson^s conversion, he determined 
to devote his life to the service of God, in the work 
of the holy ministry ; and having fallen in with the 
J;. 'Presbyterians, he connected himself with that church; 
and the uncontradicted tradition is, that he pursued 
a course of preparation for the ministry, in the Log 
College ; and after the usual trials, was licensed to 
preach the gospel, by the presbytery of New Bruns- 
wick ; and after some probation, was ordained by 
them as an evangelist. 

Mr. Robinson, soon after liis ordination, determined 
to go and visit the " lost sheep of the house of Israel ;'* 
that is, the distant and dispersed settlements of Pres- 
byterians, in the states south of New Jersey. The 
Presbyterians from the north of Ireland, between the 
; years 1720 and 1730, had come over to America, in 
j large numbers. They generally landed at New Cas- 

■ tie, or Philadelphia, and then proceeded to the interior 

■ of the country. In the frontier of Pennsylvania, 
they were greatly infested by the hostile incursions 
of the Indians, which induced them to turn tlieir 
attention to the western parts of Virginia, and North 
Carolina. In some instances, whole congregations, 
driven from their homes bv the savaffcs, removed in 
a body, with their ministers, to a region less exposed 
to the incursions of their murderous foe. The 



.' '« 



THE REV. WM. ROBINSON. 321 

valley between the Blue Ridge and the North moun- 
tain — a fine lime-stone farming county — was first oc- / 
cupied by these Irish Presbyterians ; the Germans, 
who now possess a large part of this fertile region, 
came in afterwards. In many places, all along the 
frontier were small groups of Presbyterians, who 
were entirely destitute of the public means of grace. * • 
To these scattered sheep, Mr. Robinson directed his 
benevolent attention ; feeling something of the zeal 
which actuated Paul, he did not wish to build on 
another man's foundation, but to preach Christ 
where he had not been named. In another respect, 
he resembled Paul, for he went forward, fearless of 
danger, and as it would seem, without even inquir- 
ing whether the laws of the colonies into which he 
was going, would allow itinerant preachers to pass 
through the land. Accordingly, he had penetrated 
but a short day^s journey into the Old Dominion, and 
reached the town of Winchester, when he was 
apprehended by the civil authorities ; and it appear- 
ing that he had transgressed the laws of the colony, 
a mittimus was made out by the magistrate, to send 
him to Williamsburg, the then seat of government ; 
for they were at a loss what disposal to make of 
him. The sherifi" to whom he \vas committed, hav- 
ing set ofi" on the journey, began to think that it 
would be a useless thing to conduct his prisoner to 
a place so distant, and finding that he was a sensible, 
well disposed man, he assumed the responsibility of 



i 



■?• ■ ■* 






322 THE REV. WH. BOBINSOK. 



■ f. 



fetting him go on his missionary tour. Mr. Robiti- 
son proceded along the valley, every where finding 
new settlements of Presbyterians, until he reached 
the waters of James River. The writer has heard 
an old man who was among the first settlers of the 
country round about Lexington, then called the 
Forks, say, that he had heard Mr. Robinson preach 
in that settlement, soon after it was formed. But, 
the inhabitants in the valley, not extending any 
farther to the south-west, he returned, and crossing 
the Blue Ridge, at Rock Fish gap, proceeded to the 
south, across the country, until he reached Cub 
Creek, then in Lunenburg, now Charlotte. Here he 
found a pretty large settlement of Presbyterians, 
where he stopped and preached ; and here as in all 
other places, his ministry was attended by the Spirit 
of God : sinners were awakened and converted, and 
the people of God were greatly strengthened and 
comforted. I liave conversed with an old man, 
when I was young, who was living in this settle- 
ment at the time, and was afterwards an elder in 
the church organized there. His name was Robert 
Weakly, born in Peansylvania ; and though brought 
up among the opposers of the revival, he was led 
by curiosity to hear the Rev. Samuel Blair preach, 
and was brought under deep conviction ; and after 
many trials, he hoped, to a sound conversion. From 
which time, he connected himself with the " New- 
Lishts," as thrv were callefl. This man, late in 






THK REV.. WM. BOBINSOK. 323 



life, having removed into Halifax county, where he 
"had no opportunity of attending on the Lord's Supper 
in his own church, and being debarred from the 
communion by the Baptists among whom he lived, 
unless he would submit to be immersed, was at 
length induced to go down, with them under the 
water ; but though thus nominally a Baptist, his 
heart was as truly Presbyterian as ever. He was a 
man of eminent and long tried piety, and had a 
good report from all of every name, whether in 
the church or out of it. 

This man informed me, that under Mr. Robinson's 
first sermon, a remarkable conversion of a half-breed 
Indian, one of the wickedest of men, had taken 
place, under unusual circumstances. When notice 

.: was given to his family of a sermon at the Standi 
by a travelling preacher, his wife wished to go, but 
he positively forbade her, but said he would go 
himself. . His name was David Austin. When the 
congregation had collected, he was seen lying out- 
side of the assembly, under a tree, asleep. And 
thus he lay, until the preacher took his text, which 
he uttered in a thundering voice, "Awake, thou 
that sleepest," Austin sprang to his feet, as if pierced 
with a dart, and fixing his eyes on the preacher, 
never removed them, but drew nigher and nigher to 

•'> '" the Stand, .until at the close, he was observed 
standing at the preacher's feet, and the tears stream- 

.. ing from his eyes. After a few days of pungent 

''% 



>."i 



. / 



324 



THE R£y. WM. AOBINSON. 






■•'*■ 



■ ■■#_ 

conviction, he received comfort by faith in Christ, 

and became one of the most eminent Christians in 

all the land. His talent for administering consolation 

to distressed consciences was so well known, that he 

has been sent for, as far as thirty miles, to converse 

with a lady mider spiritual darkness and distress of 

mind. I have heard a pious old mother in Israel 

say, that she had heard Mr. Davies and Dr. Waddel, 

and the Smiths, converse on religion, but she never 

heard any one whom she found so much comfort in 

hearing, as old David Austin. 

A remarkable attention to religion in the county 

of Hanover, existed at this time, without the aid of 

the ministry. Some persons from that place being 

on a visit to Cub Creek, when Mr. Robinson, on his 

way to Carolina, visited that settlement, then called ''Jf- 

* "■ ** 

"The Caldwell Settlement,^^ gave an account^ 

upon their return, of the preacher they had heard. 
Upon hearing this account, the serious people 
of Hanover inquired, at what time Mr. Robinson ex- 
pected to return from Carolina to Cub Creek 5 and 
they immediately resolved to send two of their num- 
ber to meet him at the time specified. It so hap- 
pened, however, that the information received was 
not correct; for when the messengers arrived at 
Cub Creek, they found to their disappointment, that . > 
he had passed several days before. .Determined, "<^f 
however, not to go back without him, they pursued;; :, 
after him through a very rugged, mountaiapus 

« ■ ■ * * _ * 



ir 






'V » JB: ' "T^^ REV. Wl^BOBINSON. 325 

country, and overtook him ISLt Rockfish, at the foot 
of the Bhie Ridge. Mr. Robinson upon hearing 
the state of things in Hanover, did not hesitate to 
go with the men ; but in order to reach the place 
before the Sabbath, it became necessary to ride one 
whole night. And when he arrived, the leaders of 
the dissenting congregation were much perplexed 
and concerned, lest his doctrines should not accord 
with those which from books thev had imbibed . 
therefore, before he was introduced to the congre- 
gation, they took him into a private room and asked 
him, what was his opinion of such works^as Luther 
on the Galatians, Boston, Eunyan, &x3.i and when 
he expressed the warmest approbation; ■ they were 
delighted above measure. But as it will be gratify- 
ing to the reader to see the whole of the letter which 
Mr. Davies wrote to Mr. Bellamy, in which the nar- 
rative of Mr. Robinson's visit to Hanover is con- 
tained^ it shall be here inserted. 

Letter from Mr, Davies, minister of Hanover, Vir- 
ginia, to Mr. Bellany of Bethlehem, in New-Eng- 
land. 

** June 28, 1751. 
** Rev. and Deas Sir : — 
"If the publication of a narrative of the rise, progress, and 
present situation of religion in Virginia, may not only grati- 
fy good people, but (as you give me reason to hope) animate 
their prayers for us, and also encourage preachers to come 
into these parts, I should charge myself with a criminal 
neglect if I refused to publish the marvellous works of the 
Lord among us. I hope I may ol)5ierve Tvithout the umbmgo 










326 THE REVt .WM. ROBINSON. 

.■-■^-•. V. ■ 

of calumny, what is but too iErrident to serious peoplje of all 
denominations among ns, that religion has been, and in most 
parts of the colony still is, in a very low state. A surprising 
negligence in attending public worship, and an equal sur- 
prising levity and unconcernedness in those that attend. 
Family religion a rarily, and a solemn concern about eter- 
nal things, a greater. Vices of various kinds triumphant, 
and even a form of godliness not common. But universal 
fame makes it needless for me to enlarge on this disagreea- 
ble subject, Before the revival in 1743, there were a few 
who were awakened, as they have told me, either by their own 
serious reflections, suggested and enforced by divine ener^fy, 
or on reading some authors of the last century, particularly 
Bolton, Baxter, Flavel, Bunyan. There was one Mr. Sam- 
uel Morris who had for .some time been very anxious about 
his own salvation, who after obtaining blessed relief in 

_ ■ 

Christ, became zealous for the salvation of his neighbours, 
and very earnest to use means to awaken them. This was 
the tendency of his conversation ; and he also read to them 
such authors as had been most useful to himself, particular- 
ly, Luther on the Galatians, and his Table Discourses, and 
several pieces of honest Bunyan's. By these means some of 
his neighbours were made more thoughtful about their 
souls ; but the concern was not very extensive. I have 
prevailed on my good friend just now named, who was the 
principal private instrument of promoting the late work, 
and therefore well acquainted with it, to write me a narra- 
tive of its rise and progress, and this, together with what he 
and others have told me, I shall present to you, without any 
material alterations. 

'* In the year 1740, Mr. Whitfield had preached at Wil- 
liamsburgh at the invitation of Mr. Blair, our late commis- 
sary. But we being fifty miles distant from Williamsburgh, 
he left the colony before we had an opportunity of hearing 
him. But in the year 1743, a young man from Scotland had 
got a book of his sermons preached in Glasgow, and taken 
from his mouth in short hand, which after I had read with 
great benefit, I invited my neighbors to come and hear it; 
and the plainness and fervency of these discourses being 



-^ 

* 



p' ■ 

* I 

■I- 



■■.-■.4 



.,J ^ THE REV. WM. BOBINSON. 327 

attended with the power of the Lord, many were con- 
vinced of their undone condition, and constrained to 
seek deliverance with the greatest soliciiude. A con- 
siderable number met to hear these sermons every 
Sabbath, and frequently, on week days. The concern of 
some was so passionate and violent, that they could not 
avoid crying out, weeping bitterly, &c. And that, when 
such indications of religious concern were so strange and 
ridiculous, that they could not be occasioned by example or 
sympathy, and the affectation of them would be so unprofit- 
able an instance of hypocrisy, that none could be tempted to 
it. My dwelling-house at length was too small to contain 
the people, whereupon we determined to build a meeting- 
house, merely for reading. And having never been used to 
social extempore prayer, none of us durst attempt it. By 
this single mean several were awakened, and their conduct 
ever since is a proof of the continuance and happy issue of 
their impressions. When the report was spread abroad, 
I was invited to several places to read these sermons, at a 
considerable distance, and bv this means the concern was 
propagated. About this time, our absenting ourselves from 
the established Church, contrary, as was alleged, to the laws 
of the land, was taken notice of, and we were called upon 
by the court to assign our reasons for it, and to declare what 
denomination we were of. As we knew but little of any 
denomination of dissenters, except Quakers, we were at a 
loss what name to assume. At length, recollecting that Lu- 
ther was a noted reformer, and that his books had been of 
especial service to us, we declared ourselves Lutherans ; and 
thus we continued, until Providence sent us the Rev. Mr. 
William Robinson. This Mr. Robinson was a zealous, la- 
borious minister of Christ, who by the permission of the 
presbytery took a journey through the new settlements in 
Pennsylvania, Virginia, and North Carolina. He founded a 
Congregation at Lunenburgh."*^ In Ameliat also, a county 
somewhat nearer us than the former, his labours were exten- 
sively blest: and while he was there, some of our people 

* Now Charlotte, f Now Cumberland, 



528 THE KEV. WM. ROBixso.v. ';;: 

sent him an invitation to come and preach at our reading^ 
house. Being satisfied about the soundness of bis princi- 
ples, and being informed that the method of his preaching 
was awakening, we were very eager to hear him. On the 
6th of July, 1743, he preached his first sermon to us from 
Luke xiii. 3, and continued with us preaching four days suc- 
cessively. The congregation was large the first day, and 
vastly increased the three ensuing. 'Tis hard for the live- 
liest imagination to form an image of the condition of the as- 
sembly, on these glorious days of the Son of man. Such - 
of us as had been hungering for the word before, were 
lost in an agreeable surprise and astonishment,) and 
some could not refrain from publicly declaring their 
transport: we were overwhelmed with the thoughts of 
the unexpected goodness of God, in allowing us to hear 
the gospel preached in a manner ^that ^sarpassed our 
'hopes. Many that came through curiosity were pricked to 
the heart, and but few in the numerous assemblies on these 
four days, appeared unaffected. They returned alarmed 
with apprehensions of their dangerous condition, convinced 
of their former entire ignorance of religion, and anxiously 
inquiring what they should do to be saved. And there is 
reason to believe there was as much good dune by these four 
sermons, as by all the sermons preached in these parts be- 
fore or since. Before Mr. Robinson left us, he successfully 
endeavoured to correct some of our mistakes, and to bring 
us to carry on the worship of God more regularly, at our 
meetings. After this we met to read good sermons, and be- 
gan and concluded with prayer and singing of psalms, which 
till then we had omitted. The blessing of God remarkably 
attended these more private means, and it was really aston- 
ishmg to observe the solemn impressions begun or continued 
in many, by hearing good discourses read. I had repeated invi- 
tations to come to many places round, some of them 30 or 40 
miles distant, to read. Considerable numbers attended with 
eager attention and awful solemnity, and several were in a 
judgment of charity turned to God, and thereupon erected 
meeting-houses, and chose readers among themselves, by 
which the Tvnrk was mere cxtensirclr carried on. 



■t* 

THE RKY. WM- ROBINSON. 529 

^ ''Soon after Mr. RobiDson left us, the Rev. Mr. John Blair 
paid us a visit ; and truly he came to us in the fulness of the 
gospel of Christ. Former impressions were ripened and 
new ones made on many hearts. One night in particular, 
a whole house full of people was quite overcome with the 
power of the word, particularly of one pungent sentence, and 
they could hardly sit or stand, or keep their passions under 
proper restraint. So general was the concern during his 
Slay with us, and so ignorant were we of the danger of 
apostacy, that we pleased ourselves with the thoughts of 
more being brought to Christ at that time, than now ap- 
pears to have been, though there is still the greatest reason 
to hope that several bound themselves to the Lord in an 
everlasting covenant never to be forgotten. Some time af- 
ter this, the Rev. Mr. Roan was sent us by the presbytery of 
Newcastle. He continued with us a longer time than any 
of the former, and the happy effects of his ministrations are 
still apparent. He was instrumental in beginning and pro- 
moting the religious concern in several places where there 
was little appearance of it before. This, together with his 
speaking pretty freely about the degeneracy of the clergy in 
this colony, gave a general alarm, and some measures were 
concerted to suppress us. To incense the indignation of the 
governmemt the more, a perfidious wretch deponed, he heard 
Mr. Aoan utter blasphemous expressions, in his sermon. 
An indictment was thereupon drawn up against Mr. Roan, 
(though by that time he had departed the colony,) and 
some who had invited him to preach at their houses, were 
cited to appear before the general court, and two of them 
were fined. While my cause was upon trial, I had reason to 
rejoice that the throne of grace is accessible in all pla- 
ces, and that helpless creatures can send up their desires un- 
seen, in the midst of a crowd. Six witnesses were cited to 
prove the indictment against Mr. Roan, but their depositions 
were in his favour ; and the witness who accused him of 
blasphemy, when he heard of the arrival of Messrs. Ten- 
nent and Finley, fled, and has not returned since ; so that 
the indictment was dropped. But I had reason to fear being;y.' 
banished the colony, and all circumstances seemed to threat- 



330 THE KEV. WM. ROBINSON. 

en the extirpation of religion among^ the dissenters in these- 
parts. In these difficulties, having no person of a puhlic 
character to appear in our favour, we were determined to ac- 
quaint the Synod of New- York with our case. Accordingiy 
four of us went to the Synod, May, 1745, when the Lord fit- 
voured us with success. The synod drew up an address to our 
governor, the honorable Sir William Gooch, and sent it with 
Messrs. Tennentand Finley, who were received by the gov- 
ernor with respect, who gave them liberty to preach among 
us. By this means the dreadful cloud was scattered for 
a while, and our languid hopes revived. They continued 
with us about a week, and though the deluge of passion in 
which we were at first overwhelmed, was by this time 
somewhat abated, yet much good was done by their mim's- 
tiy. The people of God were refreshed, and several care- 
less sinners were awakened. Some, that had trusted before 
in their moral conduct, and religious da^ieiB, were convinced 
of the depravity of their nature, and the necessity of regen- 
eration, though indeed there were bat few unregenerate 
persons among us at that time, that could claim so regular 
a character, the most part indulging themselves in criminal 
liberties, and being remiss in the duties of religion, which 
alas ! is too commonly the case still in such parts of the col- 
ony as the late revival did not extend to. 

^^After they left us, we continued vacant for a considerable 
time, and kept up our meetings for reading and praying in 
several places, and the Lord favored us with his presence. 
I was again repeatedly presented and fined in fio'art for 
absenting myself from Church, and keeping up unlawful 
meetings, as they were called ; but the bush flourished in the 
flames. The next that were appointed to supply us, were the 
Rev. Messrs. William Tennent and Samuel Blair. They 
administered the Lord's Supper among us ; and we have 
reason ever to remember it as a most glorious day of the 
Son of Man. The assembly was large, and the novelty of 
the manner of the administration, did peculiarly engage their 
attention. It appeared as one of the days of heaven to 
some of us ; and we could hardly help wishing we could, 
with Joshua, have delayed the revolutions of the heavens to 



m 
'I ■ 



THE RKV. WM. EOSINSON. 331 

prolong it. After Messrs. Tennent and Blair were gone, 
Mr. Whitefield came, and preached four or five days, which 
was the happy means of giving us' farther encouragement, 
and engaging others to the Lord, especially among the 
church people, who received the gospel more readily 
from him than from ministers of the Presbyterian denom- 
ination. After his departure, we were destitute of a minister, 
and followed our usual method of reading and prayer, at 
our meeting, till the Rev. Mr. Davies, our present pastor, 
was sent us by the presbytery, to supply us a few weeks in 
the spring, 1747 ; when our discouragements from the gov- 
ernment were renewed and multiplied ; for, upon a Lord's 
day, a proclamation was set up at our meeting house, strictly 
requiring all magistrates to suppress and prohibit, as far as 
they lawfully could, all itinerant preachers, &c. which oc- 
casioned us to forbear reading that day, till we had time to 
deliberate and consult what was expedient to do ; but how 
joyfully were we surprised before the next Sabbath, when 
we unexpectedly heard that Mr. Davies was come to preach 
so long among us, and especially that he had qualified him- 
self, according to law, and obtained the licensing of four 
meetingh ouses among us, which had never been done before. 
Thus man's extremity is the Lord's opportunity. For this 
seasonable interposition of Divine Providence, wc desire to 
offer our grateful praises, and we importune the friends of 
Zion, to concur with us. 

" Thus far Mr. Morris's narrative. Then the Rev. Mr. 
Davies proceeds to give an account of the stale of their 
affairs since he came among ihem in April, 1747. — 
•Upon my arrival, I petitioned the general court to grant 
me a license to officiate in and about Hanover^ at four 
meeting-houses, which, after some delay, was granted, 
upon my qualifying according to the act of Toleration. 
I preached frequently in Hanover, and some of the adjacent 
counties: and though the ftrvour of the late work was con- 
siderably abated, and my labours were not blessed with suc- 
cess equal to those of my brethren, yet I have reason to hope 
they were of service, in several instances. The importunities 
they used with mc to settle with them were invincible ; and 






332 THE USV. WM. ROBI2«:80N. 

upon my departure, they sent a call for me to the presbytery. 
After I returned from Viifginia, I spent a year under melan- 
choly and consumptive languish orients, expecting death. In 
the spring of 1748, 1 began slowly to recover, though I then 
looked on it only as the intermission of a disorder that would 
finally prove mortal. But upon the arrival of a messenger from 
Hanover J put my life in my hand, and determined to accept of 
their call, hoping I might live to prepare the way for some 
more useful successor, and willing to expire under the fati^es 
of duty, rather than in voluntary negligence. The Hon. Sir 
Wm. Gooch our late governor, always discovered a ready dis- 
position to allow us all claimable privileges, and the great- 
est aversion to persecuting measures ; but, considering the 
shocking reports spread abroad concerning us by officious 
malignants, it was no great wonder that the council discov- 
ered considerable reluctance to tolerate us. Had it not 
been for this, I persuade myself they would have shown 
themselves the guardians of our legal privileges, as well as 
generous patriots to their country, which is the character 
generally given them. In October, 1748, besides the four 
meeting-bouses already mentioned, the people petitioned 
for the licensing of three more, which with great diffiiculty 
was obtained. Among these seven, I have hitherto divided 
my time. Three of them lay in Hanover cotmty, the other 
four in the counties of Henrico, Carolina, Louisa, and 
Goochland. The nearest are twelve or fifteen miles distant 
from each other, and the ex*remes about forty. My congre- 
gation is very much dispersed, and notwithstanding the 
number of the meeting-houses, some live twenty, some thirty, 
and a few forty miles from the nearest. Were they all 
compactly situated in one county, they would be sufficient 
to form three distinct congregations. Many of the church 
people also attend when there is sermon at any of these 
houses. This I looked upon at first as mere curiosity after nov- 
elty, but as it continues, and in some places seems to increase, 
I cannot but look upon it as a happy token of their being at 
length thoroughly engaged. And I have the greater reason 
to hope so now, as experience has confirmed my former 
hopes. Fifty or sixty families having thus been happily 



THE UEV. WM. KOBtNSON. 333 

entangled in the net of the gospel by their own curiosity, 
or some such motive. There are about three hundred com- 
maaicants in my congregation, oi whom the greatest num- 
ber are in the judgment of rational charity, real Christians. 
Besides some, who, through excessive scrupulousness, do 
not seek admission to the Lord*s tabic. There is also a num- 
ber of Negroes. Sometimes I see an hundred and more 
among my hearers. (Psal. Ixviii. 31 .) I have baptized about 
forty of them within these three years, upon such a profession 
of faith as I then judged credible. Some of them, I fear, have 
apostatized ; but others I trust, will persevere to the end. 
I have had as satisfying evidences of as sincere piety from 
several of them, as I ever had from any person in my life, 
«nd their artless simplicity, their passionate aspirations af- 
ter Christ, their incessant endeavours to know and do the 
will of God, have charmed me. But alas ! while my charge 
is 60 extensive, I cannot take sufficient pains with them for 
their instruction, which often oppresses my heart. 

*• There have been instances of unhappy apostacy among 
us ; but, blessed be God, not many in proportion to the num- 
ber brought under concern. At present there are a few 
under promising impressions ; but, in general, a lamentable 
security prevails. Oh, for a little reviving in our bondage ! 
I might have given you a particular account of the conver- 
sion of some persons here, as indeed there are some uncom- 
mon instances of it, but I shall only observe in general, that 
abstracting from particular circumstances, the work of con- 
version has been carried on in such steps as arc described 
by experimental divines, as Allein, Shepherd, Stoddard, 
Flavel, &c. And nothing confirms me more in the truth of 
their opinions concerning experimental piety, than this 
agreement and uniformity as to the substance, in the exer- 
cises of those that can make the fairest claim to saving grace. 
There is one Isaac Oliver here, whose history, could I write 
it intelligibly to you, would be very entertaining. He has 
been deaf and dumb from his birth, and yet I have the 
utmost reason to believe he is truly gracious, and also ac- 
quainted with most of the doctrines, and many of the histo^ 
rical facts of the Bible. I have seen him represent the cm- 

i: 



334 THE K£V. WM. ROBINSON. 

eifixion of Christ in such signficant signs, that I coald not 
hut understand them. Those that live in the house with 
him, can hold conversation with him yery readily. There 
is so much of the devout ardour of his soul discovered at 
limes, as is really affecting, and I have seen him converw 
m signs about the love and sufferings of Christ, till he has 
heen transported into earnestness, and dissolved in tears. 
The above Mr. Morris, with whom he lives, has told me, 
that eight years ago, he appeared remarkably changed, and 
ever since is very conscientious in the whole uf his beha- 
viour ; generally delights to attend both public and family 
worship, though he canoot hear a word ; and is observed 
sometimes to retire to secret prayer, though he signifies that 
he is praying with his heart, when about his business, or in 
company, which is peculiarly practicable to him, as in all 
places he enjoys retirement. I could relate several peculia- 
rities about him ; but as they are unintelligible to myself, or 
might seem incredible to those that are unacquainted with 
him, I omit them. So much, however, I know of him, that 
I cannot but look upon him as a miraculous monument of 
Almighty grace, that can perform its purposes on men, not- 
withstanding the greatest natural or moral impediments ; 
and I submit it to the judgment of others, whether a person 
80 incapable of external instructions, could be brought to 
know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven any other 
way than by immediate revelation. Besides the people here, 
several of my brethren, who have been here, particularly 
Messrs. Samuel Blair and John Roan, can attest this relation. 
I forgot to inform you, in its proper place, that the Rev. Mr. 
Davenport was sent by the synod to Hanover last summer, 
and continued here about two months. And, blest be God, 
did not labour in vain. Some were brought under concern, 
and many of the Lord's people much revived, who can never 
forget the instrument of it. 

" Thus, dear Sir, I have given you a brief account of what 
I am persuaded you will readily own to be the work of the 
Lord. We claim no infallibility, but we must not fall into 
scepticism. If we could form no judgment of such a work, 
why should we pretend to promote the conversion of men, if 



THE R£V. WM. ROBINSON. 335 

■ 

we cannot have any satisfying knowledge of it, when it ap- 
pears ? Indeed, the evidence of its divinity here is so irre- 
sistible, that it has extorted an acknowledgment from some 
from whom it could hardly be expected. Were you, Sir, a 
narrow bigot, you would, no doubt, rejoice to hear that there 
are now some hundreds of dissenters in a place, where, a 
few years ago, there were not ten ; but I assure myself of 
your congratulations on a nobler account, because a con- 
siderable number of perishing sioners are gained to the 
blessed Redeemer, with whom, though you never see them 
here, you may spend a blissful eternity. After all, poor 
Virginia demands your compassion, for religion at present is 
but like the cloud which Elijah's servant saw. Oh that it 
may spread and cover the land ! 

'' As to other counties where dissenters are settled. — There 
are two congregations, one in Albermarle, and one in Ajo- 
gusta county, belonging to the synod of Philadelphia, that 
ha^e ministers settled among them : but those that have put 
themselves under the care of the New Castle presbytery 
(which are vastly more numerous), notwithstanding thek 
repeated endeavours, are still destitute of ministers. There 
are as many of them as would form five distinct congrega- 
tions, three at least in Augusta, one in Frederick, and one at 
least in Lunenburgh and Amelia.* Notwithstanding the 
supplies our presbytery have sent them, some of them, par- 
ticularly Lunenburgh, have been both a year together with- 
out one sermon. I hope one of them may soon be provided 
by a pious young man, Mr. Todd, sent by New Brunswick 
presbytery, but I have no prospect as to the rest ; for I can 
now count up at least six or seven vacant congregations in 
Pennsylvania, and two or three in Maryland, besides the 
five mentioned in the frontier counties of Virginia, and a 
part of my own congregation, which I would willingly de- 
clare vacant, had they opportunity of obtaining another 
minister. And there are but twelve members in New Castle 
presbytery, and two or three candidates that are pre-engaged 
to vacancies in Pennsylvania. We have indeed of late li- 

* Now Charlotte, and jCumberland. 

TT8 



836 THE RHV. WM. ROBINSOX. 

I censed several pious youths, but our Yacaueics increase 
almost as fast as our ministers, by the settlement of new 
places, or the breaking out of religious concern In places 
where there was little before; and some of our most useful 
members are lately called home by death ; such as Messrs. 
Robinson and Dean, and now Mr. Samuel Blair. May the 
Lord induce faithful ministers from New England, or 
wherever they might be spared, to come and help us ! 
While these congregations have been destitute of settled 
pastors, itinerant preaching among them has, by the bless- 
ing of God, been very useful. Mr. Robinson underwent 
great hardships in North Carolina, without much success, by 
reason of the fewness and savage ignorance of the inhabit- 
ants ; but the case is now happily altered. A new congre- 
gation, I think upon Pec-dee river, sent a petition lately to 
our presbytery for a minister. Besides this, I hear of several 
other places in North Carolina, that are ripening very fast 
for the gospel. 'O that the Lord would send forth faithfal 
labourers into his harvest!* Mr. Robinson was the instm- 
ment of awakening several in Lunenburgh and Amelia, 
with whom I lately spent a fortnight, at their earnest desire; 
and there is a prospect of doing much service, were they 
furnished with a faithful minister. I met with most encou- 
ragement in a part of Amelia county, where very few had 
heard any of my brethren. The assemblies were large even 
on week days, and sometimes there appeared much solem* 
nity and afTcciion among them. There appears great proba- 
bility of success, if they had a faithful minister. It was 
really afflicting to me that the necessity of my own congrega- 
tion constrained me to leuve them so soon. In Augusta, 
there is a great number of solid lively Christians. There 
was a pretty general awakening there some years ago, under 
the ministry of Messrs. Dean and Byrara. I believe three 
ministers might live very comfortably among them. In 
Frederick county, there has also been (as I am informed by 
my brethren who have been there) a considerable awaken- 
ing some years ago, which has had a blcEsed issue in many, 
and the congregation have been seeking a minister these 
several yearp, Tn Maryland also, there has been a consider- 



THE REV. WM. ROBINSON. 337 

able revival (shall I call it ?) or £rst plantation of religion, 
in Baltimore county, where I am informed Mr. Whittlesey 
is likely to settle. In Kent county, and Queen Anne's, ft 
number of careless sinners have been awakened and hope* . 
fully brought to Christ. The work was begun and chiefly 
carried on by the instrumentality of that favoured man Mr. 
Robinson, whose success, whenever I reflect upon it, aston- 
ishes me. Oh ! he did much in a little time, and who would 
not choose such an expeditious pilgrimage tbrough'this 
world ? There is, in these places, a considerable congrega- 
tion, and they have have made repeated essays to obtain a 
settled minister. There was a great stir about reUgion in 
Buckingham, a place on the sea-shoret about four years ago, 
which has since spread and issued in a hopeful conversion in 
several instances. They also want a minister. But the 
most glorious display of divine grace in Maryland has been 
in and about Somerset county. It began, I think, in 1745, 
by the ministry of Mr. Robinson, and was afterwards carried 
on by several ministers that preached transiently there. I 
was there about two months, when the work was at its 
height, and I never saw such a deep and spreading concern: 
the assemblies were numerous, though in the extremity of a 
cold winter, and unwearied in attending the word ; and fre- 
quently there were very few among them that did not give 
some plain indications of distress or joy. Oh ! these were 
the happiest days that ever my eyes saw. Since t*hat, the 
harvest seems over there, though considerable gleanings, I 
hear, are still gathered. They have of late got Mr. Henry 
for their minister, a young man, who, I trust, will be an ex- 
' tensive blessing to that part of the colony. I shall prize 
it, dear Sir, as a great blessing, if you and others of the 
Lord's servants and people in distant parts, favour us with 
your prayers. And shall be glad to correspond with them. 
Our acquaintance with the various parts of the church, 
qualifies us to adapt our prayers to their state. May your 
Divine Master bless you and succeed your ministrations, and 
pour out his Spirit on the land where you reside. I am, &c.* 

• " May 28d, 1746, Mr. G. Tenusnlaiv^'NlT.T>v»\%»>\j««a.^^^^i^ 

U3 



338 THE REV. WM. ROBINSON. 

Not only in Hanover, but iti all the places, where 
Mr. Robinson preached, there were permanent fruits 
' of his labours. The writer has seen and conversed 
with a number of persons who were brought to 
tserious consideration under the ministry of this suc- 
cessful evangelist. Old John White, who resided 
fieai Charlestown, in Jefferson county, and who was 
the father of judge White of Winchester, was one of 
Mr. Robinson's great admirers, and I believe, brought 
to the experimental knowledge of the truth under 
his ministry. Old Mr. Hoge, the father of the 
Rev. Dr. Moses Hoge, who was a Seceder, in- 

tmrgh, ai agents for the trustees of the college of New-Jersef (an 
institution that promises well, if the Lord vouchsafe it his blessing, 
for the success of the gospel,) Mr. Davies informs, that one Mr. 
Brown is lately ordained in Augusts county, where there were sundry 
congregations vacant ever since their first settlement ; that he has the 
care of two meetings, and as he is a youth of piety, prudence, and 
zeal, there is reason to expect that his labours will be of service in 
that wilderness, not only in his own more peculiar charge, but in 
the neighboring places that have no minister of their own. Ako, 
that Mr. John Wright, who supplies Mr. Davies' charge in his ab- 
sence, has wrote, that since he has officiated in his place, there are 
considerable appearances of success in Caroline and Henrico, where 
Mr. Davies was apprehensive he labored much in vain. When Mr. 
Davies left Virginia in August, last, there was a hopeful appear- 
ance of a greater spread of religious concern among the Ne- 
groes. A few weeks before he left home, he baptized in one day 
fifteen Negroes after they had been catechised for some months, 
and given credible evidences of their sincerely embracing, the gos- 
pel He also says, that Isaac Oliver, the dumb man mentioned in 
his letter above, has behaved as one would expect from such promising 
beginnings, his conduct being such as becomes the profession of the 
gospel." 



THS R£V. WM. E0BIN80K. 339 

formed the writer, that he often heard Robinson 
when he preached at Opekin and Cedar Creek, in 
Frederick county ; and while he admitted that he' 
preached the gospel faithfully, and with great zeal f^ 
yet said, there was a want of method in his dis- 
courses. After Mr. Robinson's return from this in- 
teresting tour, he laboured in the state of New York, 
with his usual success ; and also in some congrega- 
tions in Maryland, where there was a blessed work 
of grace under his ministry. 

Probably Mr. Robinson, during the short period 
of his life, was the instrument in the conversion of 
as many souls, as any minister who ever lived in \ 
this country. The only circumstance relating to his ' 
person which has come down is, that he was blind 
of one eye ; so that by some he was called " the 
one-eyed Robinson." 

We are also entirely ignorant of the circumstances 
of his death. This event we know occurred before 
the year 1751, in which Mr. Davies wrote his letter 
to Mr. Bellamy, for it is mentioned with grief in 
that communication. If we mistake not, Mr. Da- 
vies has celebrated the laboiurs and successes of this 
servant of God, in one of his poems ; and Mr. Ten- 
nent, somewhere, speaks of him as << that wonderful 
man." Mr. Robinson was never married, and had, 
it is believed, no relatives in this country ; and as 
fietr as appears never printed anything, nor left any 
of his writings to be a memorial to posterity of his 



1/ 



340 THX R£y. WM. ROBINSON. 

fervent piety and evangelical spirit. It is not even 
known, where his body rests; but his glorious Mas- 
^v whom he served so faithfully in the gospel^ wfll 
know where to find it, when He shall come to resus- 
citate the bodies of his saints. 



I 



CHAPTER XVIIL 

MEMOIR OF REV. JOHN ROWLAND. 

Mr. Rowland received by the New Brunswick Presbytery, at its first 
meeting in violation of the rule of Synod — His trials — Speedy 
licensure — Accepts a call to Maidenhead and Hopewell^-Great 
revival — His letter to Mr. Prince — Removal to Pennsylvania- 
Revival at New Providence — Close of life unknown. 

Op Mr. Rowland nothing is known prior to the 
time when he was. taken under the care of the New 
Brunswick presbytery, at its first meeting in Au- / 
gust, 1738. It is certain, indeed, that he was an 
alumnus of the Log College, where probably he re- 
ceived the principal part of his education. 

In receiving him under their care, the presbytery 
deliberately violated a standing rule of the synods ^-^ 
which required, that every candid^, before being 
taken on trials by any presbytery, should submit 
hiftiself to an examination on his classical and scien- 
tific attainments, to a committee of the sjriiod. This 
rule the presbytery of New Brunswick believed to 
be arbitrary, and an undue infringement on the 
rights of presbyteries ; and therefore determined to 
disregard it. This was undoubtedly a rash and dis- 



*^ 



342 THE REV. JOHN ROVVtAND. 

orderly proceeding. Even if their opinion about 
the rights of presbyteries had been correct, they 
should first have remonstrated against the synod's 
rule, and endeavoured to have it repealed. But the 
members of this new presbytery having been the 
principal supporters of the Log College, considered 
the rule of the synod as particularly directed against 
that institution ; and on this account were disposed 
to resist it. Hence arose the violent dissension be- 
tween this presbytery and the synbd, which issued 

f 

Uu a division of the body into two parts, the Old 
— and the New Side ; of which an account has sllready 
peen given. 

' At this first meeting of the New Brunswick pres- 
bytery, the following ministers and elders were 
present, viz., Gilbert Tennent, John Cross, William 
Tennent, Eleazer Wales, and Samuel Blair. The 
elders were James McCoy, John Henry, William 
Moor, Robert Cunningham, and Thomas Davis. 
As none, in the minutes, are marked as absent, it 
would seem that this first meeting of the presbytery 
set an example Reserving the imitation of their suc- 
cessors. All the ministers were in their place ; and 
an equal number of ruling elders ; so that there 
was no delinquency on their part. The first busi- 
ness, after they were regularly constituted, was, the 
receiving of Mr. John Rowland as a candidate un- 
der their care. And in regard to the rule of synod, 
after much discussion they adopted the following 
* resolution. 



^ 



THE REV. JOHN ROWI«^D. 343 

« That in point of conscience, they were not re- 
strained from using the liberty and power, which 
presbyteries all along have hitherto enjoyed; but 
that it was their duty to take the said Mr. Rowland 
on trials, for which conclusion they conceive they 
have many weighty and sufficient reasons.'^ 

The presbytery then proceeded to the examina- 
tion of Mr. Rowland, " on the several parts of learn- 
ing, and on his experience of a work of converting 
grace in his soul, which he sustained to their satis- 
fiu^tion." 

The trials of Mr. Rowland were carried through 
as rapidly as was consistent with the usage in such 
cases. The presbytery met again on the 1st day 
of September of the same year, when he read a 
Latin exegesis, and a sermon on Ps. Izxxvii. 5. With 
these trials the presbytery expressed themselves 
well pleased ; and assigned him as the subject of a 
popular sermon, Rom. ill. 24, and adjourned to meet 
the following week, at Freehold, when Mr. Row- 
land preached at the opening of the presbytery, who 
having taken the sermon under consideration, it was 
highly and unanimously approved. 

The candidate having now gone through all the 
prescribed trials, after adopting the Westminster 
Confession of Faith as the confession of his faith, 1 
was licensed to preach the gospel of Christ. His 
licensure took place exactly one month after he was 
taken under the care of the presbytery. There is no 



344 TH^ a£V. JOHN ROWLAND. 

reason to lead us to conclude that Mr. Rowland was 
deficient in the qualifications requisite for the office 
of the ministry. From the record it appears, that 
the presbytery were well satisfied with all the parts 
of his trials ; and it is known that he was a popular 
and an awakening preacher, and that his ministry 
was attended with much success. 

As might have been expected, this act of the pres- 
b3rtery brought down upon them the censure of the 
synod ; and the presbytery not being disposed to 
submit to a rule which they considered arbitrary 
and inconsistent with their rights, things grew 
worse and worse, until the parties separated. Be- 
fore this event, however, the synod absolutely re- 
fused to consider Mr. Rowland as a member of their 
body. They did not deny that he was a minister 
of the gospel, but alleged, that having been brought 
in contrary to their rules, he could not be recognised 
as a member. It appears from Mr. Rowland's let- 
ter to the Rev. Mr. Prince of Boston, that on the 
very day of his being licensed to preach the gospel, 
an application was made to the presbytery for his 
'^ervices, by the united congregations of Maidenhead 
(Lawrence) and Hopewell (Pennington)* And it 
was not long after this, that he was artfully perso- 
nated by Tom Bell, when he was absent on a 
preaching tour in Maryland, in company with the 
Rev. William Tennent. On his return, as has been 
related in the life of Mr. William Tennent, he was 



.^ . 



THE REV. JOHN ROWLAND. . 345 

indicted for horse-stealing and robbery, was cleared 
by (he testimory of Mr. Tennent and two others, 
who swore that he was, at tlie time, in a distant 
part of the country. But the impression on the pub- 
lic mind was so strong, that he was the person seen 
by many in the possession of the stolen horse, that 
the three witnesses, including Mr. Tennent, were 
indicted for perjury, and one of them actually suf- 
fered the penalty of the law for this crime. How 
wonderfully Mr. Tennent was delivered from an ig- 
nominious punishment, may be seen in the memoir 
which we have published of this extraordinary man. 

Mr. Rowland accepted the invitation of the con- 
gregations before mentioned, and his labours among 
them were attended with an extraordinary blessing, 
in a great revival of religion, in both these congre- 
gations. But as Mr. Rowland himself has given a 
narrative of this work of grace, in a letter to the 
Rev. Mr. Prmce of Boston, we think it most expe- 
dient to publish his own account, in his own words. 

The letter is as follows : 

" Rev. Sir, 

" In answer to yours, &c. — I was sent forth to preach the 
gospel of Christ, by the presbytery of New Brunswick, on 
September 7th, 1738, on which day the congregation of 
Maidenhead and Hopewell, put in a supplication for me to 
the presbytery ; and accordingly I complied therewith. In 
process of time, we had the privilege of Maidenhead meet- 
ing-house, and my people built a meeting-house in Hope- 
well ; but, before this, wc were constrained to keep our 
meetings in barns in both towns ; and, thou^K m^ v\\>\% v^- 



?AG THi: Ri:v. john Rowland. 

peared as poor despised creatures, yet the congregation that 
attended my ministry, was so numerous, that the largest 
bams among us were chosen to worship God in. It was 
some discouragement to me at first, that I and my people 
had no better places for divine worship ; but at that lime I 
thought on these things, which proved some support to me, 
Tiz., that our Lord and Saviour was bom in a mean place, 
and likewise preached in the ship, and on the mountain, 
as wcli as in the synagogues, and that it had been the fre- 
quent lot of his people, to betake themselves to worship him 
in places attended with many inconveniences. There is an- 
other town lying contiguous to Hopewell, which is called 
Amwell ; the people there were something numerous like- 
wise ; and having none to labour among them in the word, 
they petitioned for a part of my time, viz., one Sabbath in 
three ; and it was granted .unto them ; so that my labours 
among these three towns, for the most part of the lime that 
I lived in the Jerseys, were equally divided. There was a 
small number in Hopewell and Maidenhead, truly ac- 
quainted with vital religion, as far as I could judge, before I 
came among them, and they seemed so earnest in prayer, 
night and day, to have the gospel in power among them, as 
if they would take no denial. But of them who became my 
congregation in Amwell, there Avere but very few that knew 
the Lord Jesus when I came among them ; yet, in many 
ways, they were a very agreeable people ; so that I was 
much encouraged to labour among them. 

" The subjects which I chiefly insisted on for about six 
months, were conviction and conversion ; and usually I 
made choic© of the most rousing and awakening texts, to set 
forth the nature of these doctrines ; and I have reason to 
hope, that the Lord began to accompany his word in a 
measure from the very first. Some began to be convinced 
that they were in the way to misery, and unacquainted with 
the way to the kingdom of Heaven. But then, let it be ob- 
served, that but one or two Avere taken with convictions at a 
time, or under one sermon : for many months together* their 

* ** Let none suppose that because I s^cak of convictions being 
MtUl carried on, thai I mean \\\at «iT\T\«Ta mwv V« cotvVmv^^^ \^i w»» 



THK REV. JOHN ROWLAND. 347 

convictions were still increased, and the number of the con« 
vinced was still multiplied. I commonly preached in the 
night as well as in the day, and frequently on week days 
also ; so that they had hardly any opportunity to cast their 
convictions out of their thoughts, the Lotfi continuing to ca* 
operate with his word. The frequent opportunities which I 
took to examine them were made very beneficial, through 
the divine blessing, to preserve their convictions alive until 
the time of grace, of which I shall speak afterwards. The 
attention of all, in general, was awakened ; fathers, mothers, 
and the youth ; some negroes, also, seemed very earnest after 
the word, and were convinced thereby of their sin and mis- 
ery, and that Christ they must have, or perish for ever. 

** The people of God ^vere much enlivened to see poor sin- 
ners convinced of the perishing nature of their state, and 
their absolute need of Christ: their supplications to God 
were mostly bent for the conversion of sinners, and their 
conversation, whenever they met together, as far as I ob- 
served it, (and frequent opportunities I had to observe it) 
savoured exceedingly of the things of God ; so that I can- 
not say that I ever saw those pious people given to wordli- 
ness in their conversation, or to lightness and vanity in their 
discourses. Great was the love^ey bore to one another, and 
sweet was the peace which subsisted among themselves ; 
80 that I was not interrupted from my work by making up 
differences among them. 

*' In the month of May, 1739, 1 began to think that the 
most inviting and encouraging subjects would be the most 
agreeable to convinced souls ; and accordingly I began with 
these words, John xi. 28, 29. * The master is come, and 
calleth for thee. As soon as she heard that, she arose 
quickly, and came unto him.' The discourse upon this sub- 
ject was brought home, through the divine influence, upon 
the souls of many. Solemn weeping, and deep concern, ap- 

high degree before they can be converted : I only mean, that this was 
the way which the I*ord observed in carrying on his work, to keep 
sinners for a long time under conviction, before he manifested his 
love to them. 



348 THE REV. JOHN ROWLAND. 

peared through the congregation : I had hopes that the hearts 
of some had been knit close to Jesus our Lord, which after- 
wards appeared to be so ; of which more hereafter. I was 
still encouraged to go on, in inviting convinced sinners to 
come and embrace the person and purchase of the dear Lord 
Jesus. Then I made choice of that word in Matthew xxiL 
4. ' And all things are ready ; come unto the marriage.' 
This was also blessed to poor convinced souls ; they werp 
brought under a full persuasion that Jesus, the Son of God, 
was ready and willing to embrace them with his everlasting 
la70Qr> and to pardon their sins and transgressions ; but then 
they found more of their own hardness, and had a clearer 
view of their own unwillingness to come unto the Lord 
Jesus Christ, which increased their mourning and sorrow, 
and made them press forwards with more living earnestness 
in search after Jesus Christ. A variety of other engaging 
subjects I made use of for a considerable time, to press them 
to a full closure with Jesus Christ. At length, by frequent 
converse among them, and enquiring strictly into the nature 
of the views they had of Christ, and the outgoings of their 
60hLs after him, and their willingness to be ruled by Jesus 
Christ in their whole hearts and lives, I could not but be 
favourable in my thoughts^f such, as persons favoured of 
the Lord. 

" I find, by reading what accounts I kept by me of the 
jblessed work of grace which hath been in these towns, that 
there was much good done by visiting, by which means I 
found out many that had been touched, of whom I had not 
well heard how it was with them, which gave me an oppor- 
tunity to offer such things unto them, as might tend to fix 
thiese beginnings in their souls, and increase them. So 
likewise many were convinced of their lost state by nature. 
By particular examinations, I found likewise, that private 
examination of persons, as to their state and condition, is an 
excellent mean to lay them open to conviction under the 
public word ; and thus were some convinced in these towns. 

" The divine influence of the Spirit of God was very evi- 
dently afforded with his word, though not in every opportu- 
nity, yet in several, until May, 1740, in which time many 



TU£ BEY. JOHN BOWLAND. 349 

more were added onto the Lord's people. Some of these 
opportunities, for clearness sake, I shall mention. One was 
in October 6th, 1739, in a night meeting ; but the people not 
having been warned with sufficient care, there met but about 
fifteen persons, eleven of whom were deeply convinced of 
their misery, and some of them cried out so very awfully* 
that I was constrained to conclude. After sermon I 
took an opportunity to enquire of those persons, what was 
the real cause of their crying out in such a manner. Some 
of whom answered me, ' that they saw hell opening before 
them, and themselves ready to fall into it.' Others answered 
me, ' that they were struck with such a sense of their sin- 
fulness, that they were afraid the Lord would never have 
mercy on them.' Another of these opportunities was on 
December 30th, 1739. As to myself, I felt exceeding poor 
in the frame of my soul ; so that I thought I might well say, 
as in the words of the text I preached on that day, Isa. xl. 6, 
* What shall I cry Y But the Lord was pleased to manifest 
his grace and power exceedingly through the whole service. 
The people of God were much enlarged in love, to see that 
whatever gracious word was sent with power into their 
hearts, was sent from God ; for the man knoweth not what 
to cry, without being guided by the word and Spirit. Some 
hardened creatures, who thought not much of religion, as if 
there was no reality in it, were deeply convinced of the truth* 
reality, and beauty of religion. Others, who knew not well 
which way to walk, or what to choose, opposers I cannot call 
them, though they had not joined with our side ; such, Isay^ 
as far as we could judge the tree by the fruit, were also con- 
vinced and converted under that discourse. Many youths 
also were wrought upon ; so that I cannot say truly, that 
any [remained untouched. Some of these persons were 
pleased to tell me, * that they never would forget this day, 
in which God had been so gracious unto them.' As to back- 
sliders from convictions, who were not converted, I shall 
afterwards speak of them. The night of the same day be- 
ing spent in public worship (viz. the first part thereof), was 
attended with the same divine influence. Another of these 
opportunitiee was in April 6th, 1740, in Maidenhead. The 



1* - ■ 



350 THX H£V. JOHN RQWLAKD. 

Bubject that was insisted on, was the gosfbl-net, from Matt. 
;^ xiii. Many who were not acquainted with the spiritual nature 
of the gospel in the least degree, as far as I found, were 
greatly bowed down, and brought to own that it was the 
Lord's work which was carried on. The people, in general, 
through the whole assembly, seemed as if they were hum- 
bled before the Lord, which afterwards proved itself to be 
sa Without controversy, many of these slipped out of the 
net as fast as they could ; yet many, blessed be God, were 
held in it by almighty power. 

" I come next to speak of the times of most remarkable power that 
I witnessed in these towns. It begun on this wise ; there had been 
a week day's meeting in Maidenhead, on July 24th, 1740. Worship 
Memed to be attended with much warmth of afTection, which gave 
mnch encooragemfint to the minister again ; for lukewarmness at this' 
time had prevailed very much among the people ; and the affections of 
some were mach removed from others of their fellow members ; 
neither did they seem to have such a thirst for the word of God as 
formerly. Thingj had come to this pass in about two months ; but 
how astonishing is it to consider what sweet methods the Lord ob^ 
served to remove them ! for, as the people were passing homewards 
. through the town after worship, some inclined to.stop at one of the 
Chrbtian houses ; and the stopping of some occasioned others to stop 
till the number was about forty ; and when they were all set in the 
house, that the time might be profitably spent, the first part of the 
fiftieth psalm was sung, which seemed to be performed with unusual 
quickening. When singing was over, the same verses were explain- 
ed at some length, and the Spirit of the Lord was pleased to work by 
it npon all that were present, as far as we could discern by the out- 
ward man, and much converse that was spent among them all in par- 
ticular. In about an hour afterwards, the love of God's people that 
were present, was uncommonly inflamed to Jesus Christ, their viewd 
of his majesty and glory were much enlarged, their longings after 
him much stirred up, and their fear of him graciously increased ; 
their zeal for God's glory was kindled anew, and their concern for the 
cause of God seemed to receive much growth ; and as to the uncon- 
verted that were present, we could not find otherwise, but that they 
had received very clear discoveries of their undone state by nature. 
This was followed with the mighty power of God, in a sermon next 
evening to a large congrcgatbn in the same town. And, in Amwell. 



THJB BEY. JOHN ROWLAND. 351 

July S7th, aad in Maidenhead again on August 3d, God was pleased 
to magnify his grace in visiting many poor sinners. In these oppoi^ 
tunities he opened their eyes to see themselves vvithout Christ, and 
without hope in the world ; their convictions were attended with great 
horror and trembling, and loud weeping, which I supposed could not 
be stopped so easily as some do imagine ; for I observed that many 
did ooatinne crying in the most doleful manner along the raad| m 
their way Iwme ; and it was not in the power of man to prevail with 
them to refrain ; for the word of the Lord remained like fire upon 
their hearts. Furthermore, the Lord was pleased to add many more 
to my people, who used not to walk with them, who still oontinue in 
communion with them, of whom I hope it may be said, that they are 
growing in grace, and in the knowledge of Jesus Christ. The seed 
of the word was dropped into the hearts of others, who bore not 
■rach regard to the doctrine of the new-birth which was preached 
among ns, and did not spring up visibly until near three years after. 

'* As to the issue of these convictions which I have last mentioned, 
I think it must be owned, that many of them were followed with a 
aonnd conTersion, or else we most give up speaking any tlung as ta 
any giace in this Kfe. Many backslided, and became stiff-necked again, 
though I must say that I have not seen such backslidings in these 
towns, as I have seen in many others ; the instances are but £ew 
in them in comparison to what I have seen in most other places that 
I have been acquainted with. One great mean to prevent backsliding 
from convictions in Amwell, was this : when the husband was taken, 
the wife was also taken, or when the wife was visited, the husband 
was also ; so that they were ever stirring up each other. Many such 
instances are in the town of Amwell, upon which account that con- 
gregation appears to me peculiarly beautiful ; and, as to Maidenhead 
and Hopewell, I believe that one great mean that the Lord used there 
to prevent backsliding, was the care and diligence of some of the 
Christian people in conversing with the convinced ; for several of the 
Christians were so engaged in deep concern for the work of God, 
that they could not rest satisBed until they had reason to hope, that 
the souls that were convinced from one time to another, were also 
brought through to sound conversion. 

** Respecting the nature of this work which I have been speaking 
€i, it will appear yet more distinct, by giving some account of their 
experiences. And, first, I would speak something more of their con* 
victions ; they can give a very different account of sin, both original, 

V 



354 THE REV. JOHX ROWLAND. 

•nd tctaal; their views of beirt conopiion, thrir distaDce from Gud, 
and ihcir haviug H^eJ to loDg withoat him, were veiy clear and afibct- 
ing ; their hanlneH and unbeiief, their ignorance and btindneai pvessF 
ed very cloae upon them ; their need of Christ, and his Spirit, wb< 
■iich, in tbcif apprehension, that there was no rest nor contentment 
to be taken in enj thing here below, until thej did obtain an interest 
in JeMie Christ, and receive hie Spirit to purify and sanctify their 
hearta. There are a few among them, whose eonTictiona were not 
■Itended with any considerable degree of horror ; they were very 
watchful over thenwelves lest they should receive false comfort, and 
•o rest in ongrounded hopes ; their hunger after Jesus Christ, his 
rightcoatneas^ and all his fulness, was very earnest, and their expe- 
rience of it very clear ; therefore they wanted the word preached often, 
and they would sit under it with great affection, waiting on the 
Lord. Their views of the Lord Jesus, in his person, nature a nd offices, 
were very clear, and their acquaintance with the actings of their 
faith on him, together with the out-going of their soub in love towards 
him. They can give a satisfying accoont of those things according 
to the holy scriptures. Their experience of a saving closure with 
Jesus Chrirtt, and the sweet manifestations ihey had of bim at the 
time of spiritual marriage, were very glorious, and their affections 
have been oflen stirred afrosh towards Jesus Christ, in meditating od, 
and speaking of their espousals. They are careful to maintain a 
holy communion with God in the general course of their lives. I 
have seen some of them in considerable agonies when they have 
been under the hidings of God*8 face ; so that they could take no rest 
by any means, until the gracious Lord would be pleased to shine 
again upon them with the light of his countenance. They arc prop, 
erly diligent in the things of this life ; yet they arc ready to attend 
on the word of God on any oppoitunity that oflcrs to them on week 
days. 

" They Htill continue zealous for GoJ and his truth ; their walk id 
steady in the ways of God, and not unconstant and uneven. And, 
that I may conclude with Hopewell and Msidenhead, I would say, 
that Jesus Christ has gathered for himself a blessed flock there ; and, 
however they may be viiified and scornid by those who have their 
portion in this life, yet I hope no less, but that they are precious witli 
God, and shall be satisfied with the pleasures of his right hand 
for evermore. Amen. 



THE REV. JOHN ROWLAND. 353 

After some time, Mr. Rowland removed from 
New Jersey into Pennsylvania, where he had charge 
of a congregation in what is called « the Great Val- 
ley," and also of Providence, near to Norristown. 
Much of his time, however, seems to have been 
spent in itinerating, and preaching from place to 
place, during the great awakening with which tlie 
churches were then visited. 

The only account which we have of Mr. Row- 
land's labours and success in Pennsylvania, are 
given by himself in his narrative sent to Mr. Prince. 

" In the year 174*^' says he, "I came and lived 
in Charlestown, Pennsylvania, and have continued 
according to the order of the Presbytery, preaching 
among them, and the people of New Providence. 
But as my ministry has been chiefly successfid at 
the latter place, since I came into these parts, I shall 
only speak of what I have observed of the work of 
God, in New Providence. 

" The people of this place, before I came, were 
but an ignorant sort of people, unacquainted with 
religion, both as to principle and practice; and 
though they would pretend, some to be of one de- 
nomination, and some of another ; yet a vain name 
was all. Looseness prevailed much in the place, 
and there was not one to speak to another in a suit- 
able manner, neither of the vileness, deformity, and 
unprofitableness of the ways of sin ; nor of the glory, 

and excellencv, and profitableness of the ways of 

V« 



S54 THE REV. JOHN ROWLAND. 

God. I know not that any of them observed fami- 
ly prayer, or even asked a blessing on their food. 
This was the case among them, as they told me at 
several times, and again since I began to write this 
narrative. The conviction and conversion of the 
people of New Providence occurred within about 
two months of one another. It was the time of my 
travelling among them that the Lord chose to bless 
tor their ingathering to Jesus Christ ; and since I 
have laboured statedly among them, it has been as 
much my endeavour to build up those who were 
called into the fellowship of God, as to convince 
sinners of their misery, and to this end, my labours 
were blessed again among them throughout the 
year 174*. As to their conviction and conversion 
unto God, I may say, they arc capable to give a 
scriptural account of these things. I forbear to 
speak of many extraordinary appearances, such as 
some scores crying out at one instant ; and of others 
falling down and fainting. 

" These people are still increasmg and blessed be 
the Lord, they are endeavouring to walk in com- 
munion witli God, and with one another. And for 
this end, they meet in society, in the meeting house, 
two or three hours at a time, for prayer and praise ; 
and they find this an excellent means to prepare 
them for the holy Sabbath. They are careful to 
maintain the worship of God in their families, and 
to use all agreeable [proper] means to increase their 
own knowledge in the things of God. 



THS REV. JOHN ROWLAND. 355 

" I choose to say no more, though I may truly 
say, that wliat I have spoken of the glorious work 
of God in this place, and in the towns of Amwell, 
Hopewell, and Maidenhead, is but a very Uttle to 
what I might have said/' 

There is one circumstance connected with this re- 
vival in New Providence, which in a peculiar man- 
ner interests the writer. His own grandfather, then 
residing on the Schuylkill above Norristown, was a 
subject of this revival, and a member of this church ; 
although he was awakened under the preaching of 
Mr. Whitefield. 

Though Mr. Rowland filled a considerable space 
in the church, while he lived, as he was a boanerges 
in denouncing the terrors of the law against impeni- 
tent sinners, insomuch that he acquired among the 
irreUgious, the title so often given to faithful preach- 
ers, " the hell-fire Rowland,'* yet no word or me- 
morial of the close of his life remains. He seems 
not to have been married, and to have died early. 

Here, we may remark, that none of the distin- 
guished ministers of that period, except William 
Tennent, sen., reached the age of seventy; and 
some of the most able and successful among 
them, did not even arrive at the age of forty. 
Among these wc reef on Samuel Blair, Samuel Da- 
vies, Wm. Robinson, and John Rowland. These 
men may be said to have lived fast. They did 

much for tlieir Lord, in a short time. Being burn- 

V3 



356 THE REV. JOHN ROWLAND. 

ing as well as shining lights, they were themselves 
consumed, while they gave light to others. Oh that 
a race of ministers, like-minded, burning with a 
consuming zeal, might be raised up among us ! 



CHAPTER XIX. 

CONCLUSION. 

Rer. Charles Beatty — Birth and edacation— Acts as a pedler — Con- 
verses in Latin with the Founder of the Log College — Becomes a 
student in the Institution — Is licensed to preach— Settles at 
Neshaminy — A missionary to the Indians — An agent for the 
Widow's Fund — For the College of New Jersey — Goes to Barha- 
does and dies there — Letter of Rev. .Tonathan Dickinson — Letter 
of Rev. Wm. Tennent, jr. 

The Rev. Charles Beatty was another of the 
pupils of the Log College, whose name should be 
rescued from oblivion. 

Mr. Beatty was a native of the north of Ireland, 
where he had enjoyed the privilege of a pretty good 
classical education; but being of an adventurous 
and eiilerprizing spirit, when quite young he de- 
termined to emigrate from the land of his nativity, 
and seek his fortune in America. Being destitute 
of property, he adopted the plan of maftig his liv- 
ing in the capacity of a pedler, or travelling mer- 
chant. One day, in the prosecution of his business, 
he called at the Log College, and astonished Mr. 
Tennent, the principal, by addressing him in correct 
Latin, and appeared to be familiar witVv V.\\»X \asv.- 



358 THE REV. CHARLES BEATTY. 

guage. After much conversation, in which Mr. 
Beatty manifested fervent piety, and considerable 
religious knowledge, as well as good education in 
other respects, Mr. Tennent said to him, " go and 
sell the contents of your pack, and return immedi- 
ately and study with me. It will be a sin for you 
to continue a pedler, when you can be so much 
more useful in another profession/' He accepted 
Mr. Tennent's offer, and in due time became an 
eminent minister. This account is no doubt authen- 
tic, as it it is taken from Dr. Miller's Life of Dr. 
Rodgers, who had long been intimately acquainted 
with Mr. Beatty. 

After Mr. Beatty had finished his studies at the 
Log College, he was licensed to preach the gospel 
by the presbytery of New Brunswick; and in a 
short time afterwards, was settled as pastor of the 
church at Ncshaminy, left vacant by the death of 
the venerable founder of the Log College. About 
this time, in consequence of the publication of 
Brahierd's journal of missionary labours among the 
Indians, a missionary spirit seems to have been en- 
kindled among the ministers of the Presbyterian 
Church, in» connection with the synod of New York 
and New Jersey. Under this influence, both Mr. 
Beatty of Neshaminy, and Mr. Treat of Abington, 
left their congregations, and went on a mission to 
the Indians. In Allen's American Biographical 
Dictionary, it is stated, that Mr. Beatty was en- 



THE BET. CHARLES BEATT7. 359 

gaged in missionary work, from 1740 to 1765, a 
period of twenty-five years. This must be a great 
mistake, Mr. Beatty was not in the ministry so early 
as 1740, and his service as a missionary, did not 
continue one-sixth of the time specified. 

Mr. Beatty was an able, evaDgelical preacher, 
and was much esteemed for his private virtues, and 
public labours. He seems to have possessed much 
of a public spirit, and a popular address ; for he 
was twice employed as an agent, first in behalf of 
the Widow's Fund, established for the benefit of 
the families of poor presbyterian ministers. This 
agency was performed by the appointment of the 
synod, and occurred about the yeeu: 1761 ; so that 
he could not then have been on a mission to the 
Indians. Afterwards, he was appointed to collect 
funds for New Jersey College, and in pursuance of 
this object, he went to the island of Barbadoes^ 
where he was taken sick, and died on the 13th of 
August, 1772. He had been appointed a trustee of 
the college in 1763, and continued its ardent friend 
until the day of his death ; and, indeed, he sacrificed 
his life in endeavouring to promote its prosperity. 

It appears from the college records, that Dr. With- 
erspoon himself, had been appointed to visit the 
West Indies, to collect funds for the college ; but 
finding it inconvenient to go, he recommended his 
son, James Witherspoon, to the Board. Upon which 
this gentleman was commissioned, and also the Rev. 



360 THE REV. CHARLES BEATTTT. 

Charles Beatty, to accompany him. The death of 
Mr. Beatty frustrated the scheme, as upon his 
death, Mr. Witherspoon returned home. In regard 
to Mr. Beatty*s death, the only thing on record in 
the minutes of the Trustees, in whose service he 
was employed, is the following, viz : " It appearing 
that Mr. Edward Ireland, in Barbadoes, had showed 
particular kindness to Mr. Beatty, ordered that W. 
P. Smith, Esq., write a letter of thanks to him in 
the name of the Board.*' 

As Mr. Treat, minister of Abington, though not 
educated at the Log College, was closely associated 
with the members of the New Brunswick Presby- 
tery, and sympathized with them in all their mea- 
sures, and was one of those cast out by the protest 
of the majority of the members of the synod of 
Philadelphia, it may be proper to say of him, that 
he was highly esteemed as a preacher and as a man, 
and was an active and zealous promoter of the revi- 
val. He and Mr. Beatty were neighbours in their 
fields of labour, and were men of a like spirit. 
They both went as missionaries to the Indians, and 
were devotedly attached to the Rev. David Brain- 
erd. An evidence of which we have recorded in 
his journal. When they understood that he was 
about to leave the work, on account of increasing ill 
health, they travelled all the way to Princeton, to 
see him before he left New Jersey. 

Mr. Treat is mentioned by Mr. Whitefield, in his 



THE B£V. CHARLES BEATT7. 361 

journal, as a minister who had been preaching sev- 
eral years, without any acquaintance with experi- 
mental reUgion ; but was brought under deep con- 
cern for his soul, by hearing Mr. Whitefield preach. 
And having, as he believed, experienced at this time 
a change of heart, he became very zealous in 
preaching the doctrines of grace, and warning pro- 
fessors against the delusion of resting on a mere 
form of religion. 

Of the Rev. M . Wales, pastor of the church at 
Kingston, and one of the original members of the 
New Brunswick Presbytery, we have received no 

I 

authentic information. In Mr. Whitefield's journal, 
we find the names of a Mr. Campbell, and a Mr. 
Lawrence mentioned, as evangelical ministers, who 
had received their education in this institution ; but 
no particulars respecting either of them have come 
down to us. 

Here then we might bring our labours respecting 
the Log College, to a close, but as one object of our 
work is, to furnish our readers with a full account 
of the extraordinary revival of religion, which was 
in progress, in this state, about a hundred years 
ago, we will add as a sort of appendix to the nar- 
ratives already given, two letters, the one written 
by the Rev. Jonathan Dickinson, minister of Eliza* 
bethtown and addressed to the Rev, Mr. Foxcroft, 
of London ; the other, a letter from the Rev. Wm. 
Tennent of Freehold to Dr. Finley, giving an in- 



363 REV. MB. Dickinson's letter. 

teresting account of a revival in the College of 
New Jersey, in the year 1757, which has been 
copied from the autograph, now in the possession pf 
the Rev. Dr. Camahan, President of the College. 
This letter, as far as we know, has never been pub- 
lished; except that an extract from it is found in 
the preface to a volume of Gilbert Tennent's Ser- 
mons ; where, however, it is not indicated to whom 
the letter was addressed. 

MR. Dickinson's letter. 

"Elizabelhtown, Aug. 23d, 1743. 

" In these towns, religion was in a very low slate ; proies- 
sors generally lifeless, and the body of our people careless, 
carnal and secure, till some time in August, 1739, the sum- 

I mer before Mr. Whitefield came first into these parts, when 
there was a remarkable revival at Newark, especially among 
the rising generation : many of whom were now brought 
under convictions, and instead of frequenting vain company 
as usual, were flocking to their minister with that important 
inquiry, * what shall we do to be saved?' This concern in- 
creased for a considerable time among the young (though 
not wholly confined to them) ; and in November, December, 
and January following, it became more remarkable, as well 
as more general. There was an apparent reformation among 
the youth of the town : their customary tavern-haunting, 
frolicking, and other youthful extravagancies, were now laid 

• aside, a new face of things appeared in the town : all occa- 
sions of religious conversation were improved with delight : 
a seriousness, solemnity, and devout attention appeared in 
their public assemblies ; and a solemn concern about their 
eternal welfare, was visible in the very countenances of 
many. This revival of religion was chiefly observable 
among the younger people, till the following March ; when 



REV. MR. DICKIKSON's LETTER. 363 

the whole town in general was brought under an uncommon 
concern about their eternal interests ; and the congregation 
appeared universally affected under some sermons that were 
then preached to them ; and there is good reason to conclude, 
that there was a considerable number who experienced a| ^' 
saving change about that time. The summer following, this' 
awakening concern sensibly abated, though it did not wholly 
die away ; and nothing remarkable occurred till February,^ 
1740-41, when they were again visited with the special an^ 
manifest effusions of the Spirit of God. A plain, familiaif 
sermon then preached, without any peculiar terror, fervour, 
or affectionate manner of address, was set home with pow- 
er. Many were brought to see and feel, that till then, they 
had no more than a name to live ; and professors in general, 
were put upon serious and solemn inquiries into the founda- 
tion of their hope. There seemed to be very few in the 
whole congregation, but who felt more or less the power of 
God at this happy season ; though the greatest concern now 
appeared among the rising generation. There is good rea- 
son to conclude, that there were a greater number now 
brought home to Christ, than in the former gracious visita- 
tion. It was remarkable at this season, that as sinners were 
generally under an awakening distressing sense of their guilt 
and danger: so the children of God were greatly refreshed 
and comforted ; their souls were magnifying the Lord, and 
rejoicing in God their Saviour^ while others, in distressing 
agony, were cr>''ing out, ' men and brethren, what shall we 
do?' 

* In the summer following, this religious concern sensibly 
decayed ; though the sincere converts now held fast their 
profession without wavering ; yet there were too many who j 
had been under convictions, that grew careless and secure ; 
and all endeavours proved ineffectual to give new life to 
their former solicitude about their eternal welfare. What • 
seemed greatly to contribute to this (now growing) security 
among these, was the pride, false and rash zeal, and censo- 
riousness, which appeared among some few at this time,/ 1^ 
who made high pretences to religion. This opened the 
mouths of many against the whole work ; and raised that 



304 : KEV. MR. DICKINSOK*S LETTER. 

opposition which was not before heard of: almost every 
body seeming to acknowledge the finger of God in these 
wonderful appearances, till this handle was given to their 

opposition. And the dreadful scandals of Mr. C , which 

came to light about this time, proved a means to still further 
harden many in their declension and apostacy. That un- 
happy gentleman having made bo high pretensions to ex- 
traordinary piety and zeal, his scandals gave the deeper 
wound to vital and experimental godliness. « Thus Sir, I 
have faithfully given you a narrative, in some brief and 
'general hints of the late revival of religion at Newark ; and 
shall now proceed to give you a brief view of tlie like mani- 
festations of the divine grace at Elizabethtovm. 

" The Rev. Mr. Whitefield preached a sermon here in the 
fsdl of the year 1739, to a numerous and attentive auditory ; 
but 1 could observe no further influence upon our people by 
that address, than a general though tfulness about religion ; 
and a promptitude to make the extraordinary zeal and dili- 
gence of that gentleman, the common and turning topic of 
their conversation. I do not kiiow that there was any one 
person brought under conviction, or any new and special con- 
cern about their salvation, by that sermon ; nor more than 
one by any endeavours that were used with them that fall, 
or the succeeding winter. Though there was such a shak- 
ing among the dry bones so near to us, as is above repre- 
sented, and we had continual accounts from Newark of the 
growing distress among their people, (their young people 
especially) our congregation remained yet secure and 
cibrelcss; and could not be awakened out of their sleep. 
You will easily conceive, that this must needs be an afiSicting 
and discouraging consideration to me ; that when from other 
places, we had the joyful news of so many flying to Christ 
as a cloud, and as doves to their windows, I had yet cause to 
complain, that I laboured in vain, and spent my strength for 
nought. But notwithstanding all these discouraging appear- 
ances, I could not but entertain an uncommon concern, par- 
ticularly for the young people of my charge, during that 
winter and the ensuing spring ; which not only animated my 
addresses to the throne of grace on their behalf, but my en- 



BEv. MR. Dickinson's letter. ' 365 

« 

deavours also to excite in them, if possible, some afiecting 
sense of their misery, danger, and necessity of a Saviour. 
To that end, there were frequent lectures appointed for the 
young people in particular ; but without any visible success, 
until some time in June, 1740, when we had a remarkable 
manifestation of the divine presence with us. 

*' Having at that time invited the young people to hear a 
sermon, there was a numerous congregation convened, which 
consisted chiefly of our youth, though there were many 
others with them. I preached to them a plain, practical 
sermon, without any special liveliness or vigour; for I was 
then in a remarkably dead and dull frame, till enlivened by 
a sudden and deep impression, which visibly appeared upon 
the congregation in general. There was no crying out, or 
falling down— as else'^here has happened — but the inward dis- 
tress and concern of the audience discovered itself by their 
tears, and by an audible sobbing and sighing in almost all 
parts of the assembly. There appeared such tokens of a 
solemn and deep concern, as I never before saw in any con- 
gregation whatsoever. From this time, we heard no more i 
of our young people's meeting together for frolics and extra- i 
vagant diversions, as had been usual among them ; but in- 1 
stead thereof, private meetings for religious exercises were ^ 
by them set up in several parts of the town. All our oppor- 
tunities of public worship, were carefully and constantly 
attended by our people in general ; and a serious and solemn 
attention to the ministry of the word, was observable in 
their very countenances. Numbers were almost daily re- 
pairing to me for assistance in their eternal concerns. There 
were then probably more came to me in one day on that 
errand, than usually in half a year's space before.* In a 

• 

* " Agreeable to this, the Rev. Mr. Dickinson, in another letter 
wrote about that time to the Rev. Mr. Fox croft, viz., September 4th, 
1740, has these remarkable passages : — *I have still the comfortable 
news to inform yoa of, that there is yet a great revival of religion in 
these parts. I have had more young people address me for direction 
in their spiritual concerns within these three months, than in thirty 
yean before.' 



36G REV. MR. Dickinson's letter. 

word, the face of the congregation was quite altered ; and 
religion became the common subject of conversation among 
a great part of the -people. 

^* Though this work began among our young people ; and 
the most of those with whom we have reason to conclude it 
became effectual, were of the younger sort ; yet there were 
some who had lived a careless and sensual life to an ad- 
vanced age, who were under convictions, and, I hope, sav- 
ingly brought home to Christ, at this blessed time of the ef- 
fusion of his Holy Spirit. Though there were so many brought 
under convictions at once, we had very little appearance of 
those irregular heats among us, which are so loudly complain- 
ed of in some other parts of the land. I do not remember to 
have heard of above two or three instances of any thing of that 
nature, in this congregation; and those were easily and speedi- 
ly regulated. It is observable, that this work was substan- 
tially the same in all the differing subjects of it, though some 
passed through much greater degrees of distress and terror 
than others; and this distress lasted much longer with some 
than with others ; yet all were brought under a deep sense of 
their sin, guilt, and danger ; and none that I know of obtain- 
ed satisfying discoveries of safety in Christ, till they were first 
brought to despair of help from themselves or any of their 
own refuges, and to see and feel that they lay at mercy. 

** We had no instances among us of such sudden conversions 
as I have heard of elsewhere ; but our new converts were 
all for a considerable time under a law work, before they 
were brought to any satisfying views of their interest in 
Christ and the favour of God. Nor had we many instances 
of those ecstatic, rapturous joys, that were so frequent in 
some other places. It was remarkable that they who were 
fofmerly eminent for religion, were now greatly quickened 
and revived ; and some of them had now such joyful mani- 
festations of God's love to their souls as they had never be- 
fore experienced. It was also remarkable, that as this 
work began among us in a time of greatest health and pros- 
perity ; so the concern began sensibly to wear off in one of 
the greatest mortalities that had ever been known in the 
town ; which makes it appear more evidently to be the work 



HKV. WM. tjennent's letteb - 367 

of God himself. Though there were some of those who 
were then under special convictions, that have worn off their 
impressions, and are hecome secure and careless ; yet I do 
not know of any two persons, who gave reasonable hopes of 
a real change at that time, but who have hitherto by their 
conversation confirmed our hopes of their saving conversion 
to God. 

*' I would be very cautious of any confident determinations^ 
with respect to the conversion of particular persons : but if 
we may judge the tree by the fruits, which we have now had 
so long a time to observe, we have reason to suppose., that 
near about sis^ty persons have received a saving change in this 
congregation only, and a number in the parish next adjoin- 
ing to us, though I dare not pretend to guess how many, 
since the beginning of this work. The general concern 
which as I have observed, appeared upon the face of the con- 
gregation, has gradually worn off; and a great part of those 
who came short of the effectual and saving influences of the \ 
blessed Spirit, are returned to their former security and in- 
sensibility, and again appear like a valley of dry bones. 
Though there be yet a considerable number, that do not giVe 
satisfying evidences of a regenerate state, who have not 
worn off their serious impressions.. 

" I entreat your prayers for us, that He with whom is the 
residue of the Spirit, would again revive his work among us, 
and have compassion upon the many poor souls who are yet 
in the paths of destruction and death. And be pleased par- 
ticularly to remember at the throne of grace. Yours, &c. 

JONATHAN DICKINSON." 

MR. WILLIAM TENNENT's LETTETi. 

"February 27, 1757. 
"Mt DsAn Brotheh, 
" Yours of the I4th of January, I received, last nighL It was pre- 
cious to me as it seemed to inflame an aflfection, which I trust shall 
continue throughout eternity. How sweet is love to the brethren ? 
How refieshing to feel that what we have is no farther our own, than 
as it serves to glorify God, and benefit his people. I never ques- 
tioned, though I wondered at your regard for mr. Dut to \»«a«te 



i^ 



■ * 



368 «BV. WM. tennent's letter. 

something of greater importance. I went to college last Monday, 
having heard that God had begun a work of the Spirit there : and 
saw as astonishing a display of God*s power and grace, as I ever be- 
held or heard of in the conviction of sinners. Not one member in 
the house missed it, in a greater or lesser degree. The whole house 
was a Bochim. A sense of God's holiness was so impressed on the 
hearts of its inhabitants, that there were only two who were esteemed 
to be religious, that I know of, whose hopes were not greatly shaken. 
The glorious ray reached the Latin school, and much affected the 
master and a number of the scholars. Nor was it confined to the 
students only ; some others were awakened. I spoke with all the 
members, personally, except one that I providentially found the most 
of whom inquired with anxious solicitude, what they should do to be 
saved, according to the example of the trembling jailor. . . I never saw 
any in that case who had more clear views of God, themselves, their 
duty, defects, their impotence and misery, than they had in generaL 
Eveiy room had mourning inhabitants : their atuiHea witnessed to 
their prayers. You will want to know how they behaved. I 
answer, as solemn mourners at the funeral of a dear friend. It 
pleased the Lord so to order it, that there were no pnblic outcries. 
I beUeve, there never was in any house more genuine sorrow for sin, 
and longing for Jesus. The work so far exceeded my most enlarged 
expectations, that I was lost in surprize, and constrained oAen to say, 
'Is it so ? Can it be true ?' Nor is my being eye and car witness 
from Monday to Friday at two o'clock, able to recover me from my 
astonishment. I felt as the apostles when it was told them, the 
Lord had risen. They could not believe through flar and great joy. 
Surely the good, the great Jehovah, is wise in counsel, and wonder- 
ful in working. I can truly say, that my reverend brethren and my- 
self, felt no small degree of that pleasing sui prize that possessed the 
Israelites in their return from the Babylonish captivity, mentioned in 
Psalm cxxvi. when the Lord turned again the captivity of Zion, 
* We were like them that dreamed.' * The Lord hath done great 
things for us, whereof we are glad.' 

" This glorious work was gradual, like the increasing light of the 
morning. It was not begun byl'the ordinary means of preaching ; nor 
have any alarming methods been used to promote this religious con 
corn ; yet so great was the distress, that I did not think proper to 
use any arguments of terror, in public, lest some should sink under 
the weight of their distress. Notwithstanding, I found by conversiDg 



KEV. WM. TBNNENT's LETTER. 369 

with them ; that a wise and gracioas Providence had brought aboat 
a concairence of different incidents which tended to engage them to 
a serious thoughtfulness about their souls. These things considered 
in connexion, I humbly conceive, manifest singularly the finger of 
Ood: the freeness of which grace will equally appear, by considering 
that a little before this gracious, never to be forgotten visitation, 
some of the youth had given a greater loose to their corruptions, than 
mr9s common among them — a spirit of pride and contention, to the 
great grie^ and almost discouragement of the worthy president. 
There was little or no motion of the passions in the preachers, dur- 
ing their public performances; nor any public discourses in the 
hours allotted for study, but at the morning and evening prayers ; 
and these brief, consisting of plain scriptural directions, proper to 
persons under 'spiritual trouble. The president never shone in my 
«ye as he does now. His good judgment and humility, his zeal and 
integrity greatly endeared him to me. Before I came away, several 
received something like tho spirit of adoption, being tenderly affected 
with $1 sense of redeeming love, and thereby disposed, and determined 
to endeavour afler holiness in all things. 

''I cannot fully represent the glorious work. It will bear your 
most enlarged apprehensions of a work of grace. Let God have all 
the glory. My poor children, through free grace partook of the 
shower of blessing. Eternally praised be my God and Father, who 
has herein pitied the low estate of his most mean and worthless ser- 
vant, in graciously granting me my desire. This to me is a tree of 
life: yea, it is to my soul as if I had. seen the face of God. I left 
them in distress, they are in the hands of a gracious God, to whom I 
have long since devoted them with all my heart and soul. Seeing 
you desire to know their names, they are John and William. Per- 
haps, a few lines from you, dear brother, might be blessed to them. 
Praying our sincerest affection to Mrs. Finley. I greatly need your 
prayers, that I may be thankful and &ithful unto death. 

'* I am yours, 

" WM. TENNENT, Jh." 



w 



9^^ !2 

'V 



