,A%^ 


A«' 


/--^-^ "^-^-^i^.trux    ^^^r'^'^'Y^ 


^ 


';,.^f  ';i3  //Z^-' 


A 

CONTINUATION 

Of  the  Reverend 

Mr.  JFHirEFIELDh 

^JOURNAL, 

After  his  Arrival  at 

GEORGIA, 

To  a  few  Days  after  his  fecond  Return  thither  from 

PHILADELPHIA. 


LONDON: 

Printed  by  W.  Str  ahan  for  James  Hut  ton, 
at  the  Bi^le  and  Sun^  without  Temple-Bar.  1741. 


(  3  ) 


A 

CONTINUATION 

O   F 

Mr.  JVHirEFIELD\ 

JOURNAL,  e^fc. 

^  AV  ANN  AH. 

FRIDAY^  January  u.  1739-40.'  Went  this 
Morning  wnth  fume  Friends  to  view  a  Tradl  of 
Land,  confirting  of  500  Acres,  which  Mr.  H — 
■whom  I  left  School-Mafler  of  ^avannah^  was  direfted, 
I  hope  by  Providence,  to  make  Choice  of  for  the  Or- 
fhan-Houfe.  It  is  fituated  on  the  Northern  Part  of  the 
Colony,  about  lo  Miles  o^  Savannah^  and  has  various 
Kinds  of  Soil  in  it ;  a  Part  of  it  very  good. — Some  Acres, 
through  the  Diligence  of  my  Friend,  are  cleared. '  He 
has  alfo  llock'd  it  with  Cattle  and  Poultry.  He  has  be- 
gun the  Fence,  and  built  a  Hut;  all  which  will  greatly- 
forward  the  Work.  I  choofe  to  have  it  fo  far  off  the 
Town,  becaufe  the  Children  will  then  be  more  free  from 
bad  Examples,  and  can  more  conveniently  go  upon  their 
Lands  to  work.  For  it  is  my  Deign  to  have  each  of 
the  Children  taught  to  labour,  fo  as  to  be  qualified  to  get 
their  own  Living.-^  Z,0^/>,  do  thou  teach  and  excite 
A  2  them 


4  Mr.  Whitefield'j  Journal 

them  to  labour  alfo  for  that  Meat  which  endureth  to  ever- 
lajling  Life. 

Thurfday,  fataiatj  24.  Went  this  Morning  and  took 
Pofleffion  of  my  Lot.—  /  ^-i^pe  it  is  cafl  in  a  fair  Groimdy 
and  GOD,  in  anf'jer  to  our  Prayers,  will  JJoeiu  that  he 
has  given  us  a  goodly  Heritage.  I  called  it  Bethefda, 
that  is,  the  Houfe  of  Mercy.  For  I  hope  many  A&s  of 
Mercy  will  be  ftiewn  there,  and  that  many  will  thereby 
be  ftirred  up  topraife  the  LORD,  as  a  GOD  whofc  Mer- 
cy endureth  for  ever. 

Tuef day,  "January  29.  Took  in  three  German  Orphans, 
the  moft  pitiful  Objeds,  I  think,  that  I  ever  yet  faw. — No 
new  Negrres  could  poflibly  look  more  defpicable,  or  re- 
quire more  Pains  to  inftruft  them. — They  have  been 
ufed  to  exceeding  hard  Labour,  and  tho'  fupplied  with 
Provifions  from  the  Trullees,  yet  treated  in  a  Manner 
unbecoming  even  Heathens. — Was  all  the  Money  I  have 
colleded,  to  be  fpent  in  freeing  thefe  three  Children  from 
Slavery,  it  would  be  well  laid  out.  — I  have  alfo  in  my 
Houfe  near  twenty  more,  who,  in  all  Probability,  if  not 
taken  in,  would  be  as  ignorant  of  God  and  Christ, 
comparatively  fpeaking,  as  the  Indians.  BlefTed  be  God, 
they  begin  to  live  in  order.  Continue  this  and  all  other 
BUJfitigs  to  them,  for  thy  infinite  Mercies fake^  O  LORD, 
?>iy  Strength  and  ftiy  Redecfner. 

T^ucfday,  January  29.  This  Day  I  began  the  Cot- 
ton Manufacture,  and  agreed  with  a  Woman  to  teach 
the  little  ones  to  fpin  and  card.  —  I  find  annual  Cotton 
grows  indifferently  well  in  Georgia  :  And  to  encourage 
the  People,  I  this  Day  bought  three  hundred  Pounds 
Weight,  and  have  agreed  to  take  all  the  Cotton,  Hemp, 
and  Flax  that  fhall  be  produced  the  following  Year 
through  the  Vv-hole  Province. —  I  fee  more  and  more  the 
Excellency  of  the  Charity  in  which  I  am  engaged.  I 
truft  it  will  make  Savannah  lift  up  her  drooping  Head. 
Tho'  there  arc  fewer  Inhabitants,  yet  I  think  they  are 
in  a  better  Situation  than  when  I  was  here  lall:. —  I'hey 
now  live  independent  on  a  Public  Store.  Provifions, 
(Flcur  efpccially)  are  much  clieaper.  Cattle  more  plenti- 
ful i 


at  SAVANN AH,  5 

irul ;  and  by  the  Divine  Blefiing,  if  any  Manufa<5iure  can 
be  raifed  amongft  themfelves, '  to  prevent  their  exporting 
ib  much  Money,  they  may  yet  do  well. —  I  blefs  God 
my  Congregations  are  as  large  as  ufual. —  The  Court- 
Houfe  is  generally  full,  and  I  keep  as  near  as  may  be, 
to  my  old  Way  of  Proceeding. — We  have  the  Sacrament 
every  Sunday^  and  public  Prayer  and  Expofition  twice 
every  Day  in  the  Week. —  The  LORD  blefs  my  comings 
and  grant  the  Inhabitants  may  know  the  Things  zvhich  be- 
long to  their  Peace  before  they  are  eternally  hid  from  their 
Eyes  ! 

■-  Wednefday^  January  30.  Went  this  Day  with  the 
Carpenter  and  Surveyor,  and  laid'out  the  Ground  where- 
on the  Orphan- Houfe  is  to  be  built.  It  is  to  be  fixty  Feet 
Jong,  and  forty  wide.  A  Yard  and  Garden  before  and 
behind.  The  Foundation  is  to  be  Brick,  and  is  to  be 
iunk  four  Feet  within,  and  raifed  three  Feet  above  the 
Ground. — The  Koufe  is  to  be  two  Story  high,  with  an 
Hi.p-Roof:  The  iirft  ten,  the  fecond  nine  Foot  high. — 
In  all,  there  wiil  be  near  twenty  commodious  Rooms. — 
Behind  are  to  be  two  fmall  Floufes,  the  one  for  an  Infir- 
mary, the  other  for  a  Wcrk-houfe.  There  is  alfo  to  be 
a  Still-Houfe  for  the  Apothecary  ;  and  I  truftere  my  Re- 
turn to  England^  I  fhall  lee  my  Children  and  Family 
quite  fettled  in  it. — I  find  it  will  bean  expenfive  Work: 
But  it  is  for  the  Lord  Christ.  He  v/ill  take  Care  to 
defray  all  Charges.  The  Money  that  will  be  fpcnt  on 
this  Occafion,  will  keep  many  Families  from  leaving  the 
Colony,  and  in  all  Probability  bring  many  others  over. 
Inhere  are  near  thirty  working  at  the  Plantation  already, 
and  I  would  employ  as  many  more,  if  they  were  to  be 
had. — Whatfoevcr  is  done  for  God,  ought  to  be  done 
fpeedily,  as  well  as  with  all  our  Might.  Oh  that  there 
zvasfuch  a  Mind  in  all ! 

Monday^  Febriiarry  4.  Met,  according  to  Appoint- 
ment, with  all  the  Magiftrates,  and  the  former  Truftee 
of  the  Orphans,  who  heard  the  Recorder  read  over  the 
Grant  given  me  by  the  Trulfees,  and  took  a  Adinute  of 
their  Approbation  of  the  fame.  —  LORD,  grant  1  may 

carC' 


6  Mr.  Wh  I  t  e  f  t  e  l  D'i  'Journal 

carefully  watch  over  every  Soul  that  is  or  jhall  be  co?nmit- 
ted  to  my  Charg"  / 

Monday^  -  Fehruary  1 1.  Had  much  of  the  Divine  Pre- 
fence  Yefterday,  both  at  Morning  and  Evening  Service. 
Took  in  four  frefti  Orphans,  and  fet  out  with  two  Friends 
to  Frederlca,  in  order  to  pay  my  Refpects  to  General 
Oglethorpe^  and  to  fetch  the  Orphans  that  were  in  the 
Southern  Parts  of  the  Colony. — LORD,  prcfervemy  Co- 
iftg  out  and  Cotiiing  in  from  this  Time  forth  for  ever- 
T'tore. 

-  Providence,  fourteen  Pvliles  from  Frederica. 

Tuefday^  February  12.  Lay  here  lafl:  Night  at  a 
Planter's  Houfe,  expeding  to  meet  the  Scout  Boat  this 
Morning,  but  finding  it  did  not  come  at  the  Time  ap- 
pointed, I  and  my  Friends  went  to  Bethefda,  and  I 
hope  fioent  the  Day  to  God's  Glory  and  our  own  Good. 
At  Night  we  returned  to  Providence. — About  eight  o' 
Clock  the  Scout  Boat  came  ;  but  it  being  late,  we  chofe 
to  defer  going  till  next  Morning.  —  In  the  mean  while, 
God  was  pleafed  to  give  us  refrefhhig  Sleep,  and  to  fill 
my  Soul,  after  it  had  been  much  calt  down,  with  un- 
fpeakable  Peace  and  Joy  in  the  Holy  Ghoft. —  Oh  that  I 
vjas  careful  always  to  behave  fo,  as  not  to  provoke  that 
Blrfj'cd  Gueft  to  depart  from  7tic  !  But  I  find  that  I  have 
yet  a  Body  of  Sin  and  Death.  Thanks  be  to  GOD,  yet  a 
little  tvhile.,  and  J  hope  to  have  a  comldcat  Vi^orv  through 
cur  Lord  JESUS  CHRIST! 

DARIEN  near  FREDERICA. 

Friday,  February  I ^.  Lay  on  the  Water  two  Nights, 
tjnd  reached  the  Scots  Settlement  To-day  at  Noon.— 
AVas  kindly  received  by  Mr.  Macleod  the  Minifter,  and 
thofe  of  his' Houfe. — Engaged  to  take  focir  Orphans 
■which  were  in  his  Flock  ;  and  about  feven  in  the  Even- 
'nvy,  after  fome  edifying  Convcrfation  and  friendly  Offices 
of  Love,  I  took  Boat  for  Frederica,  where  we  arrived 
about  two  in  the  Morning  ;  and  having  warmed  and  re- 
fVcihed  ourfclves,  retired  to    Bed,  blelfing  Gob  for  the 

bodily 


tit    FREDERIC  A.  7 

bodily  and  fpi ritual  Comforts  which  he  from  time  to 
time  imparted  to  us.  ■ — Oh  that  my  Eyes  were  open  to  fee 
the  Letigth^  and  Breadth^  and  Depth,  and  Height h  of  the 
Loving  Kindi'.effes  of  the  LORD  !  I  can  only  adore, 
comprehend  it  I  cannot  ;  //  is  paji  my  finding  out. 

FRED  ERIC  A. 

Saturday,  February  i6.  Waited  upon  and  was  cour- 
teoufly  received  by  the  General,  with  whom  I  and  my 
Frier.ds  breakfaited  and  dined,  and  fpent  moft  Part  of 
the  Day.  At  Night  God  was  pleafed  to  vifit  me  with 
a  Fever,  which  obliged  me  to  go  to  Bed  fuoner  than  ufu- 
al.  My  Mind  was  alfo  exercifed  with  inward  Trials  : 
But  in  a  k\v  Hours  my  Pain  both  of  Body  and  Mind, 
were  fomew^hat  abated  ,  and  the  Remainder  of  the  Night 
I  was  blellcd  with  fweet  Repofe.  For  ever  adored  be  the 
Keeper  of  Ifrael,  ivho  neither  flunibercth  nor  fleepeth  I 

'Tis  he  fujlains  my  feeble  Pow'rs 
,  With  his  Jlmighty  Arms  : 
Fie  watches  my  unguarded  Hours, 
jlgainjl   invading  Har7ns. 

No  fcorching  Sun,  nor  fickly  Moon, 

Have  leave  from  him  to  fnite  : 
He  Jhields  my  Head  from  burning  Noon^ 

From  blajiing  Damps  at  Night. 

He  guards  my  Soul,  he  keeps  my  Breathy 

When  thickejl  Dangers  co-me  : 
Still  FU  go  on,  fecure  from  Death, 

Till  he  commands  me  home. 

Sunday,  February  17.  Found  myfelf  better  in  Body, 
tho'  fomewhat  weak. —  Preach'd  in  the  Morning  in  a 
Room  belonging  to  the  Store-Houfe. —  God  was  pleafed 
to  give  me  much  Freedom,  and  the  People  Teemed  very 
attentive. —  The  General,  Soldiers  and  People  attended 
very  orderly. —  After  Sermon  I  married  a  Couple,  bap- 
tized a  Child,  and  fpent  the  Remainder  of  the  Evening 

with 


S  Mr,  W  H I T  E  F I E  L  D  V  JourmI 

xv-ith  my  two  Friends. —  Ob  what  a  happy  TJiing  is  it 
for  Brethren  to  dwell  together  in  Unity  ! 

Monday^  February  1 8.  Rofe  this  Morning  by  one 
c'Clock. —  Took  Boat  in  order  to  go  to  St.  Andrew's  ; 
but  the  Rudder  breaking,  we  were  obliged  to  return  back 
and  defift  from  our  intended  Voyage. — Went  to  Bed  and 
ilept  fo^  a  few  Hours.  Spent  a  good  Part  of  the  Day 
■with  the  General.  Received  from  him  a  Bill  of  Ex- 
change for  150  /.  which  he  advanced  me  in  order  to  be- 
gin a  Church  at  Savannah.  About  feven  o'Ciock  fet  off 
for  the  Darien^  whither  I  promifed  to  return,  to  take 
Mr.  Macleod  and  the  Orphans  with  me  to  Savannah. — 
The  Padage  to  that  Place  is  generally  about  four  Hours  : 
But  the  Wind  being  high  and  contrary,  we  were  obliged 
to  come  to  a  Grapling,  near  an  open  Reach,  and  did 
not  get  to  Darien  till  the  next  Day  at  Noon.  —  Mr. 
Macleod  and  his  Friends  received  us  with  Joy,  and  find- 
ing me  ill,  advifed  me  to  lie  down  ;  by  which  I  was 
much  refreflied,  and  was  thereby  enabled  at.  Night  to 
give  God  Thanks  in  Family  Prayer. —  Oh  who  can  ex ' 
prefs  the  Loving  Kindnefs  of  the  LORD,  or  Jhew  forth 
all  bis  Praife  ! 

DARIEN. 

Wednefday.,  February  20.  Preached  about  ten  in  the 
Morning  to  Mr.  Macleod's  Congregation,  who  feemed 
rejoiced  at  what  God  enabled  me  to  deliver. — About 
two  o'  Clock  took  Boat  for  Savayinah.  —  But  after 
we  had  rowed  about  twelve  Miles,  the  Wind  grew 
rough,  and  the  Water  beat  fo  iail  into  our  Boat,  which 
was  but  fmall,  and  very  heavy  laden,  that  we  were  ob- 
Jigcd  to  put  in  at  a  Place  called  Dohoy  IJIand;  where  we 
Ut  very  comfortably  round  a  large  Fire,  and  praifed  the 
Lord  with  joyful  LIp',  for  providing  fuch  a  Place  for 
onr  Safety. — Oh  God^  thou  and  thou  only  art  dur  Refuge 
agoinfi  every  Storm  I  O  be  thou  my  Guide  even  unto 
Vcaib  I 

DOBOr 


at  SAVANN  AH.  9 

DO  EOT  dnd  DARIEN. 

Friday,  February  21.  Continued  all  Day  Yefterday, 
to  my  abundant  Satisfa6tion,  and  Spiritual  Advantage  on 
Dohoy  JJland,  and  finding  the  Wind  ftill  continue  high 
and  contrary,  we  thought  it  bcit  to  return  hack  to  Da~ 
ricn,  where  we  arrived  this  Day  about  Noon. — The 
People  were  much  pleafed  at  our  Return  ;  and  tho'  I 
wanted  to  fee  my  dear  Family  at  Savannah,  yet  I  felt 
fuch  a  peculiar  Satisfaftion  within  myfelf,  as  gave  me 
Hopes  God  intended  fome  Good  for  the  iS^ij/^j-  People  at 
Dar'ten. — Oh  that  they  may  have  fome  Spiritual  Gift  im- 
parted to  their  Souls  !  * 

Sunday,  February  24.  Preached  once  Yefterday  and 
twice  To-day.  Prayed  with  a  fick  Perfon.  Spent  fome 
Hours  in  difcourfmg  with  a  well-difpofed  Family. — 
Was  enabled  to  fee  more  of  the  Vilenefs  of  my  Heart 
and  Nature. — Felt  God's  Spirit  ftriving  with  my  Spirit; 
and  upon  many  Accounts,  both  bodily  and  fpiritual,  had 
Reafon  to  blefs  God  for  bringing  me  to,  and  detaining 
me  at  Darien. — I  ha\e  Reafon  to  fay.  It  is  good  for  tne 
that  I  have  been  here. — Retirement  is  a  fweet  Means  to 
keep  up  and  quicken  the  Divine  Life. — LORD,  grant 
I  may  never  be  afraid  to  converfe  with  thee  and  my- 
filf! 

SAVANNAH'. 

TJmrfday,  February  28.  Preached  on  Monday,  and 
on  Tuefday  fettled  a  School  both  for  grown  Ferfons  and 
Children  at  the  Darien,  to  the  great  Satisfadion  of  the 
Inhabitants — Set  out  with  my  Friends  and  four  Orphans 
on  Tuefday  Evening. — Had  pleafant  Weather. — Lay  two 
Nights  in  the  Woods. — Reached  Bethefda  about  Noon  ; 
<  was  pleafed  with  the  Improvements  that  had  been  made 
in  my  Abfence. — Was  refreflied  with  fome  comfortable 
Chriftian  Letters  that  I  received  from  Neiu-Tork. — . 
Took  Horfe  and  came  home  to  my  dear  Family  at  Sa- 
vannah ;  who  received  me  with  abundance  of  Love  and 
Joy. — The  People  alfo  of  the  Pariih  I  found  were  re-. 
B  joiced. 


lo         Mr.  Whitef  I eld'5  'Journal 

joiced  at  my  Coming. — T\\ty  flocked  to  and  fccnjcd 
very  attentive  at  Public  Worfhip. — God  alfowas  plcyfed 
to  grant  me  fome  peculiar  Vouchfafements  of  his  BlciTed 
Prefence  in  my  Soul,  and  I  wa?  Cv^mforred  on  every  Side. 
— LORD^  prepare  7ne  for  an  Hour  of  Teinptation,  Ametij 
LORD  JESUS  !  Aincn  and  Amen. 

Tucfday^  Alarch  II.  Buried  this  Evening  one  of  the 
Women  that  came  over  with  me,  who  1  trull:  died  in 
the  Lord. — The  Orphans  fung  before  the  Corpse  from 
our  lioufe  to  the  Court-Houfe,  where  I  preached,  and 
afcer  that  gave  another  Word  of  Exhortation  at  the 
Grave.  —  My  Soul  was  much  affedled  with  the  Awfulnefs 
of  the  Solemnity. — The  Word  came  with  Power. —  / 
pray  GOD  it  niay  make  fiich  a  deep  Imprejfton  upon  all 
our  Hearts,  that  we  may  be  fo  wife  as  practically  to  con- 
ftdcr  our  latter  End  ! 

CHARLES^rOWN. 

Friday^  Al^rch  14.  Arrived  laft  Night  at  Charles- 
Town,  being  called  there  to  fee  my  Brother  who  lately 
came  from  England,  and  brought  me  a  Packet  of  Let- 
ters fiom  my  dear  Friends. — Bieffed  be  GOD  !  his  IVork 
goes  on  anwngjl  them  I —  Waited  on  the  Comraiflary, 
witK  mv  Brother  and  other  Companions,  but  met  with 
a  cool  Reception. — After  I  had  been  there  a  little  while, 
I  told  him  that  I  was  informed  he  had  fome  Qiieftions  to 
propofe  to  me,  and  that  I  was  now  come  to  give  him 
idl  the  Satisfaction  1  could  in  anfvvering  them. — Upon 
this  I  immediately  perceiycd  Paflion  begin  to  arife  in  his 
Heart. — Yes,  Sir,  fays  he,  I  have  fcvcral  QuelUons  to 
put  to  you. — But,  add^d  he,  you  are  got  abo\e  us,  or 
ibmething  to  that  Purpofe. — Then  he  charged  me  with 
Enthufiafm  and  Pride,  lor  fpeaking  againft  the  generality 
of  the  Clergy,  and  deilred  I  would  make  my  Charge 
good. — I  told  him  I  thought  I  had  already  :  But  as  yet  L 
had  Icarce  begun  with  them. — He  then  asked  me  where- 
in the  Clergy  v/ere  fo  much  to  bliinie  \  —  1  anfwered, 
they  did  not  preach  up  Juflification  by  Faith  alone  :  And 
upon  talking  with  the  Com  miliary,  I  found  he  was  as 
ignorant  of  it  as  any  of  the  reft. — He  then  fnctr'd   me 

with 


-at  CHARLES-rOWN.        ii 

with  telling  me  of  my  Modeftv,  expreifed  in  my  Letter 
to  the  Bilhop  of  Gloucejier. — Charged  me  with  breaking 
the  Canons  and  Ordination  Vow  :  And  notwithdanding 
I  told  him  I  was  ordained  by  Letters  DimiiTorv  from 
the  Bifhop  of  Z<j«r/o;7,  yet  in  a  great  Rage  he  told  me,  if 
I  preached  in  any  public  Church  in  that  Province,  he 
would  fufpend  me. —  I  replied,  I  fhall  regard  that  as 
much  as  I  would  a  Pope's  Bull. — But,  Sir,  faid  I,  why 
fhould  you  be  ofFended  at  my  fpeaking  againft  the  gene- 
rah'ty  of  the  Clergy  ;  for  I  always  fpoke  worthily  of  you  ? 
— I  might  be  as  well  ofFended,  added  my  Brother,  at 
your  faying,  the  generality  of  People  were  notorious  Sin- 
ners, and  might  com.e  and  accufe  you  for  fpeaking  evil  of 
me,  becaufe  I  was  one  of  the  People. — I  further  added. 
Sir,  you  did  not  behave  thus  when  I  was  with  you  Jaft.-— 
No,  fays,  he,  you  did  not  fpeak  again  ft  the  Clergy,  or 
fbme  fuch  Thing.  Becaufe,  replied  I,  more  Light  has 
been  given  me  fince  that  Time. — But,  Sir,  faid  I,  if 
you  will  make  an  Application  to  ^ourfelf,  be  pleafed  to 
let  me  ask  you  one  Qi.ieftion.  —  "  Have  you  delivered 
*'  your  Soul  by  exclaiming  againft  the  Aflemblies  and 
*'  Balls  here?" — What,  Sir,  fays  he,  mull  you  come 
to  catechife  me  ? — No,  fays  he,  I  have  not  exclaimed  a- 
gainft  them  ;  I  think  there  is  no  Harm  in  them. — ^Then» 
Sir,  faid  I,  I  fnall  think  it  my  Duty  to  exclaim  againfl 
you. — Then,  Sir,  replied  he  in  a  very  great  Rage,  Get 
you  out  of  my  Houfe. — I  made  my  Bow,  and  with  my 
Friends  took  my  leave,  pitying  the  Commiflary,  who 
I  really  thought  was  more  noble  than  to  give  fuch  Treat- 
ment,— After  this  we  went  to  public  Prayers,  dined  at  a 
Friend's  Houfe,  drank  Tea  with  the  Independent  Mini- 
ller,  and  preaclied  about  four  in  the  Afternoon  to  a  large 
Auditory  in  his  Meeting- Houfe. — GoD  was  pleafed  to  fa- 
vour us  with  his  Prefence  during  Sermon,  and  I  fpent 
the  Remainder  of  the  Evening  with  mv  dear  Brother  and 
Companions :  Who  I  truft  will  be  all  knit  in  one  Com- 
munion and  Pellowfbip,  by  Faith  ia  a  crucified  God. 
Amcn^  fo  be  It.  . 

Saturday^  March  15,     Breakfafled,  fung  an  Hymn, 

and  had   fome  Religious  Converfation  on  board  my  Bro- 

^tlie)3  Ship.— Preached   in  the  Baptift  Meeting  Houfe, 

B  2  and 


12  Mr.  Whitefield'^  Journal 

^nd  was  much  pleafed,  when  I  heard  afterwards,  that 
'rom  the  fame  Pulpit  a  Perfon  not  long  ago  had  preached, 
who  denied  the  Doctrine  of  Original  Sin,  the  Divinity  and 
Righteoufnefs  of  our  dear  Lord,  and  the  Operation  of 
God's  Bleflcd  Spirit  upon  the  Soul. — I  was  Jed  out  to 
fhew^the  utter  Inability  of  Man  to  fave  himfclf,  and  ab- 
folute  Necefiity  of  his  depending  on  the  rich  Mercies  and 
Free  Graceof  God  in  CriRisr  Jesus,  in  order  to  be 
reftored  to  his  Primitive  Dignity.  —  Some  I  obferved 
were  put  under  Concern  ;  an^,  mofl  feemed  willing  to 
know  whether  thofe  Things  vjerefo. — In  the  Evening  I 
preached  again  in  the  Independent  Meeting-Houfe,  to  a 
more  attentive  Auditory  than  ever  :  And  had  the  Plea- 
fure  afterwards  of  finding  that  a  Gentlewoman,  whofe 
whole  Family  had  been  carried  away  for  fome  Time 
with  Deiftlcal  Principles,  began  now  to  be  unhinged,  and 
to  fee  that  there  was  no  Reft  in  fuch  a  Scheme  for  a 
fallen  Creature  to  rely  on.— LORD  JESUS  /  far  thy 
Mercies  Sake,  reveal  thyfclf  in  her  Hearty  and  make  her 
willing  to  know  the  Faith  as  it  is  in  thee.  Amen  and 
Jtnen. 

Sunday y  March  1 6.  Preached  by  eight  in  the  Morn- 
ing at  the  Scots  A4eeting-Houfe  to  a  large  Congregation. 
Vilited  a  fick  Perfon.  Went  to  Church.  Heard  the 
Commiflary  reprefent  me  under  the  Charadler  of  the 
Pharifee,  who  came  to  the  Temple,  faying,  GOD,  I 
thank  thee  that  I  am  not  as  other  Men  are. — But  whether 
I  do  what  I  do,  out  of  a  Principle  of  Pride,  or  Duty, 
the  Searcher  of  Hearts  fliall  difcovcrere  long,  before  Men 
and  Angels. — Found  my  felfvery  fick  and  weak  at  Din- 
ner.— Went  to  Church  again  ;  and  preached  about  five 
in  the  Independent  Mejting-Houfe  Yard,  the  Houfe  it- 
felf  being  not  near  capacious  enough  to  hold  the  Audi- 
tory. 

With  rejllefs  and  ungoverned  Rage, 

TVhy  do  the  Clergy  Jiorm  ? 
Why  in  fuch  rajh  Attempts  engage. 

As  they  can  ne'er  perform  f  * 


CHJRLES^rOF/N.  13 

The  Great  in  Council  and  In  Might, 

Their  variciis  Forces  brirg^ 
jigainji  the  LORD,   they  all  unite. 

And  his  ayiointed  King. 

Mu/l  we  fuhmit  to  their  Com?nands, 

PrefianptuouJIy  they  fay  ? 
No,  let  us  break  their  Jlavijh  Bands,  . 

Jnd  ciiji  their  Chains  aivay. 
But  GOD,  zvhofits  enthroned  on  high. 

And  Jees  how  they  combine. 
Does  their  confpiring  Strength  defy. 

And  mocks  their  vain  Defign. 

Felt  much  Freedom  after  Sermon,  in  talking  to  a 
larfje  Company  at  a  Merchant's  Houfe  ;  and  then  Tupped 
with  another  Friend. — Expounded  Part  of  a  Chapter, 
prayed  and  went  to  our  Lodgings  with  my  dear  Com- 
panions, praifing  and  blefling  God.     Hajlen  that  Time, 

0  LORD,  when  ive  Jloall  join  the  Heavenly  Choir  that 
is  now  about  thy  Throne. 

Monday,  March  I'j.  Preached  in  the  Morning  in  the 
Independent  Meetlng-Hoiife  ;  and  was  more  expHcite 
tiian  ever  in  exclaiming  againfl  Balls  and  Aflembliesy  to 
which  the  People  feemed  to  hearken  with  much  Atten- 
tion.—  Preached  again  in  the  Evening,  and  being  excited 
thereto  by  fome  of  the  Inhabitants,  I  fpoke  in  behalf  of 
my  poor  Orphans.  God  was  pleafed  to  give  it  his  Blel- 
fmg,  and  I  collefled  upwards  of  Seventy  Pounds  Sterling, 
the  largefl:  Colledion  I  ever  yet  received  on  that  Occafion. 
' — A  further  Earnefl  to  me,  that  we  fhall  yet  fee  greater 
Things  in  America,  and  that  God  will  carry  on  and 
iinifli  the  Work,  begun  in  his  Name  at  Georgia. 

Tuefday,  March  1 8.  Preached  twice  again  this  Day, 
and  took  an  affedlionate  Leave  of,  and  gave  Thinks  to 
my  Hearers  for  their  great  Liberality.  Many  wept, 
and  my  own  Heart  yearned  much  towards  them.     For 

1  believe  a  good  Work  is  begun  in  many  Souls.  Ge- 
nerally every  Day  feveral  came  to  me,  telling  me  with 
weeping  Eyes,  how  God  had  been  pleafed  to  convince 
them  by  the  Word  preached,    and  how  defirous  they 


14         Mr.  ^ niT ^Y iY.LT>' s  Jourml 

were  of  laying  hold  on  and  having  an  Intereft  in  the 
com  pleat  and  everlafting  Righteoufnefs  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Numbers  defired  privately  to  con- 
verfe  with  n;'-. — Many  fent  me  Ifttle  Prefents,  as  To- 
kens of  their  Love,  and  earneftly  entreated  that  I  would 
come  amongfi:  ciiem  again. —  Invitations  were  given  me 
from  fome  of  the  adjacent  Villages ;  and  People  daily- 
came  to  Tov/n"  more  and  more  from  their  Plantations 
to  hear  the  Word.  —  Providentially  many  of  my 
Sermons,  Journals,  and  my  Anfwer  to  the  Bifhop  of 
London  lately  printed,  were  fent  from  Philadelphia, 
which  gave  me  an  Opportunity  of  doing  the  more  Good. 
The  Congregations  grew  larger  on  the  Week  Days,  and 
many  Things  concurred  to  induce  us  to  think  that  Go'D 
intends  to  viiitfome  in  Charles-Town  with  his  Salvation. 
Grant  ihU,  0  Father  !  for  thy  dear  Soti'sfake,  CHRIST 
JESUS  our  LORD.     Amen.  Jmen. 

S  AVANN AH. 

Friday.,  March  21.  Breakfafted  at  a  Friend's  Houfe 
on  lVed:Ujday  Morning,  went  on  board  the  Sloop,  pray- 
ed, fung  an  Hymn,  and  took  a  mod  afFcclionate  Leave 
of  my  dear  Brother  and  other  Friends. — Got  over  the 
Bar  and  reached  Savannah  about  Noon  this  Day,  to 
the  great  Joy  of  my  I'riends  and  Family,  who  immedi- 
atelv  joined  with  me  in  giving  Thanks  to  God  for  the 
fjo-nal  Mercies  vouchafed  unto  us  fmceour  laft  Parting.-— 
Ohoiv  plentiful  h  thy  Goodnefs,  O  LORD,  which  thou 
hajl  laid  up  for  the?n  that  fear  thee,  even  hfforc  the  Sons 
of  Men  I 

Tucfday,  March  25.  W<;nt  this  Day  to  Bcthefda., 
and  with  full  Aflurance  of  Faith  laid  tlie  firft  Brick  of 
the  great  Houfe.  The  Workmen  attended,  and  with 
me  kneeled  down  and  prayed.  Aftei"  we  had  fung  a 
Hymn  fuitable  to  the  Occafion,  I  gave  a  Word  of  Ex- 
hortation to  the  Labourers,  and  bid  them  remember  to 
work  heartily,  knowing  that  they  worked  for  God  and 
not  for  Man.  Much  Satisfadlion  fcemed  to  be  amongtl 
them,  and  bleflcd  be  God's  holy  Name,  his  Work 
profpers  much    in    our  Hands  !     Near  twenty  Acres  of 

Land 


at   SAVANNAH.  15 

Land  are  cleared,  and  almoft  ready  for  Planting.  Two 
Houfes  are  already  raifed,  and  one  near  upon  being  finifli- 
ed.  AH  the  Timber  for  the  PVame  of  the  great  Houfe 
is  fawn,  and  moft  of  it  brought  to  the  Place  where  it  is 
to  be  built.  A  good  Part  of  the  Foundation  is  dug,  and 
many  Thoufands  of  Brick  ready  for  Ufe.  Near  forty 
Children  are  now  under  my  Care.  I  have  many  Pounds 
of  Cotton  fpun  ready  for  the  Loom  ;  and  near  a  hundred 
Mouths  are  daily  fupplied  with  Food  from  our  Store. — 
The  Expence  is  great  ;  but  our  Great  and  Good  God, 
I  am  perfuaded,  will  enable  me  to  defray  it.  As  yet  I 
am  kept  from  the  leaft  doubting.  The  more  my  Fami- 
ly encreafes,  the  more  Enlargement  and  Comfort  I  feel. 
And  tho'  what  has  been  hitherto  done,  comparatively 
fpeaking,  may  be  only  like  a  Grain  of  Muftard  Seed, 
yet  I  believe  it  will,  in  God's  due  Time,  take  Root  and 
fill  the  Land,  and  many  poor  diftrefled  Souls  will  come 
and  lodge  under  the  Branches  of  it. — Set  thy  Alm'ighty 
Fiat  to  it^  O  Gracious  Father,  and  for  thy  own  Name's 
Sake,  let  the  unbelieving  IVorld  know  that  thou  never  will 
forget  thofe  that  put  their  Truji  in  thee  ! 

Sunday,  March  30.  Found  my  felf  very  fick  and 
weak  in  Body ;  but  was  ftrengthened  notwithftanding, 
to  go  through  moft  of  the  Duties  of  the  Day,  and  to  take 
an  affe(51:ionate  Leave  of  my  dear  Parifliioners,  becaufe  it 
appeared  that  Providence  called  me  at  this  Time  towards 
the  Northward.  An  unfpeakable  Trouble  and  Agony  of 
Soul  did  I  feel  moft  Part  of  the  Day,  and  was  enabled  to 
wreftle  with  my  Lord  in  behalf  of  the  People  in  gene- 
ral, and  thofe  belonging  to  the  Orphan-Houfe  in  parti- 
cular. Bielled  be  God  he  has  already,  and"!  truft  in  a 
great  Meafure,  heard  my  Prayer.  All  Things  belonging 
to  the  Orphan-Houfe  fucceed  beyond  Exped:ation,  and 
fome  of  my  little  Flock  have  latcl;,  (as  far  as  I  can  judge) 
been  efFedually  called  of  God.  One  Woman,  that 
had  been  a  conftant  Attender  on  the  Means  of  Grace, 
and  thought  herfelf  a  Chriftian  for  many  Years,  came 
to  me  acknowledging,  that  fhehad  been  a  Self- Deceiver, 
and  knew  nothing  of  the  Righteoufnefs  or  true  living 
Faith  in  Jesus  Christ.  A  1  radefman  of  the  fame 
Stamp,  having  felt  the  Power  of  the  Dodrines  of  Gr^ce, 

ient 


1 6         Mr.  Wh  I  t  e  f  I  e f,  dV  Joitrnal 

fent  mefeventeen  Volumes  of  Archbifliop  Tillotfons  Ser- 
mons, of  which  he  had  been  a  great  Admirer,  to  i^LO 
what  I  would  with  them.  A  Captain  of  a  Ship,  who 
had  been  a  rtrong  Oppofer  of  the  Truth,  wrote  and  came 
to  me  under  great  Convi6Lion<:,  confe/Ting  his  Sin,  and 
defirous  to  be  a  Chriftian  indeed.  Some  others  alfo  there 
are  who  have  received  the  Love  of  God  in  the  Truth 
of  it.  So  that  T  hope-,  if  ten  Saints  could  preferve  Sodorn^ 
the  few  righteous  Souls  left  behind,  will  prevent  the  ut- 
ter Derdation  of  declining  Savannah.— Blefed  JESUS  ! 
lit  our  Extremity  be  thy  Opportunity.,  and  for  thy  Mer- 
efs  Sake,  take  the  Colony  into  thine  own  Hands  ;  fo  J})all 
vjcfing  and  praife  thy  Power  / 

IVednefday,  Jpril  3.  Read  Prayers,  as  ufual,  afToon  as 
it  was  light,  expounded  the  LefTon,  and  then  went  on 
board  with  feveral  of  my  Family  and  my  Parifhiorcrs, 
whofc  Hearts  God  has  touched  by  his  Grace.  The 
Weather  was  very  pleafant,  and  we  fjjent  the  Day  to  our 
mutual  Edification  and  Comfoit. —  In  the  Evening  we 
wept  over  and  took  Leave  of  each  other ;  and  the  Search- 
er of  Hearts  only  knows  what  yearnings  I  felt  in  rny 
own  Soul.  I  have  always  obferved,  that  I  am  under  a 
greater  Concern,  when  leaving  Savannah.,  than  any  other 
Place  in  the  World  :  For  it  has  proved  a  bleiled  Place  for 
my  Soul  ;  and  leaving  my  Companions,  and  more  parti- 
cularly familiar  Friendr,  gives  Nature  a  deeper  Wound 
than  any  other  outward  Trial. — Dearejl  Redeemer.,  guide 
end  preferve  them  in  my  Jhfencc,  for  thy  infinite  Mercy's 
Sake  I   'Amen.  Amen, 

PENSILVANIA. 

Sunday.,  April  ii,.  Newcajlle.  After  a  fhortPafTage  of 
ten  Days,  (in  which  GoD  was  pleafed  to  exercife  my 
Body  with  Sickneife,  and  my  Soul  with  Spiritual  Con- 
flicts) we  caft  Anchor  about  eight  this  Morning  at  A^e?zc- 
cafile.)  in  tiie  Province  of  Pcnfihania.  Mr.  G — ,  at 
whofe.  Houfe  I  lodged  when  latt  there,  very  courteoufly 
received  both  me  and  my  Friends.  The  Adiniller  of  tlie 
Pari{h,  v/ho  has  been  an.  Advocate  for  me,  but  was  now 
ikk,  readily  accented  mv  OfFer  to  ofRciate  for  him,     I 


at  PENSILVANIA.  17 

read  Prayers  and  preached  twice  in  his  Church.  In  the 
Morning  I  was  much  carried  out ;  and  in  tl:ie  Evening 
the  Word  came  with  Power.  People  were  furprized, 
but  much  rejoiced  at  the  News  of  my  Arrival,  which 
they  expreffed  by  flocking,  as  foon  as  they  were  apprized 
ofmyQoming,  to  hear  the  Afternoon's  Sermon.  Mr. 
Charles  Tennant^  mentioned  in  my  laft,  came  with  great 
Part  of  his  Congregation.  And  People  began  to  invite 
me  feveral  Ways  to  come  and  preach  to  them  :  But  being 
in  Hafte  to  go  to  Philadelphia,  I  appointed  to  preach  oa 
the  Morrow  at  Willingtown,  which  lay  in  the  Way. 
Thither  I  went,  with  Mr.  Tennant  and  other  Friends, 
after  Evening  Service  ;  and  my  Soul  was  much  rejoiced, 
in  hearing  how  mightily  the  Word  of  God  had  prevail- 
ed fince  I  wasziPenfilvania  l^ft.  The  Lord  was  alfo 
pleafed  to  give  new  Strength  to  my  Body,  and  I  wanted 
Words  to  exprefs  my  Gratitude  for  this  and  all  his  other 
innumerable  Mercies  from  Time  to  Time  fliowered 
down  upon  me. 

My  Soul,  infpir'd  with  facred  Love, 

GOD's  Holy  Name  for  ever  blefs  : 
Of  all  his  Favours  mindful  prove. 

And  fiill  thy  humble  Thanks  exprefs.- 

'Tis  he  that  all  thy  Sins  forgives. 

And  after  Sicknefs  makes  thee  found: 
Frof}i  Danger  he  thy  Life  retrieves. 

By  him  with  Grace  and  Mercy  crowned, 

The  LORD  abounds  with  tender  Lovi, 

And  unexa7npled  ASis  of  Grace  ; 
His  weakened  fVrath  doth  flowly  movCy 

His  willing  Mercy  flies  apace. 

Let  every  Creature  jointly  blefs 

The  mighty  LORD  ;  and  thou,  my  Heart, 
With  grateful  Joy  thy  Thanks  exprefs. 

And  in  this  Confort  bear  thy  Part, 


mi^ 


1 8        M-.Whitefield'^  'Journal 
Willingtoivn  and  Fhiladelphia. 

Monday,  April  14.  Had  fweet  Vifitations  from  above, 
and  felt  much  of  the  Divine  Prefence  and  Refrefhings  of 
God's  Spirit  in  my  Soul.  Preached  to  near  3000  People 
about  eleven  in  the  Morning ;  and  God  was  pleafed  to 
be  amongft  us,  as  in  the  Holy  Place  of  Sinai. — Many 
■went  away  refreflied  and  comforted,  and  feveral  impor- 
tunate Vifitations  were  given  me  to  preach  in  feveral 
Country  Places  round  about.  After  Sermon,  I  and  my 
Friends  dined  at  a  Quaker's,  who  feemed  to  have  a  right 
Spirit  within  him,  and  could  fpeak  as  one  experienced 
in  the  Things  of  God.  Numbers  embraced  me  with 
the  tendered  Affedlion,  and  blefled  the  Lord  of  ail 
Lords  for  fending  me  back  to  them  again.  As  foon  as 
Dinner  was  over,  we  took  Horfe,  baited  at  Chejier, 
(where  the  Landlord  of  the  Houfe  would  take  nothing 
either  for  the  Entertainment  of  ourfelves  or  Horfes)  and 
reached  Philadelphia  about  eight  in  the  Evening.  GoD 
was  here  again  pleafed  to  vouchfafe  me  great  Enlarge- 
ments of  Heart ;  and  it  is  impoffible  to  exprefs  the  Joy- 
many  felt  when  they  faw  my  Face  again.  O  how  did 
they  comfort  my  Heart  with  the  Account  of  what  God 
had  done  for  their  own  and  many  other  People's  Souls,  by 
the  Dodlrine  I  had  delivered  when  there  laft.  The  Bap- 
tift  Minifter  in  particular,  who  has  been  made  inftru- 
mental  to  water  what  God  had  planted,  recounted  to 
me  many  noble  Inftancesof  God's  Power  of  Free-Grace, 
fhewn  in  the  Convidion  and  Converfion  of  fome  Mini- 
fiers,  as  well  as  common  People. — Oh  that  the  LORD 
may  revive  his  Work  in  the  Midjl  of  the  Tears.  The 
World  is  now  up  in  Arms.  Blcjfed  JESUSy  do  thou  now 
gird  on  thy  Sword  upon  thy  Thigh ^  and  ivhiljl  the  Kings  of 
the  Eai'th  are  Jiriving  to  extend  their  Do7ninions,  do  thou 
fecretly  carry  on  thy  Kingdom  in  Believers  Heart s,  till  the 
Earth  be  filled  with  the  Knowledge  of  thee  our  LORD^  as 
the  Waters  cover  the  Sea  ! 

PHILADELPHIA, 

Tuefday^  April  15.  Paid  my  Refpc£ts  to  the  Go- 
verxior  and  Proprietor,      Went   to  jhe    Commiflary's 

Houfe, 


at  PHILADELPHIA.      -19 

Houfe,  who  was  not  at  home  :  But  afterwards  fpeaking 
to  him  in  the  Street,  he  foon  to]d  me  that  he  could  lend 
me  his  Church  no  more,  becaufe  I  had  not  treated  the 
Biftiop  of  London  well  in  my  Anfwer  to  his  late  Paftoral 
Letter  ;  and  alfo  had  mifquoted  and  mifreprefented  Arch- 
bifhop  Tillotfon^  in  a  Letter  publifhed  in  the  laft  Week's 
Gazette.  I  told  him  he  had  belt  fhew  that  in  Public. — 
He  replied,  the  Printers  would  not  publifii  any  Thing 
for  them,  and  that  the  Prefs  was  fhut  up  againft  them. 
I  anfwered,  it  was  without  my  Knowledge.  Upon  this 
we  parted  ;  and  in  the  Afternoon  I  was  much  prefled  in 
Spirit  to  preach  upon  the  Blind  Beggar,  to  whom  the 
Scribes  and  Pharilees  faid,  Dojl  thou  teach  us  ? — I  ftood 
upon  a  Balcony  on  Society  Hill^  from  whence  I  preached 
my  ^Farewell  Sermon  laft  Fall  ;  and  felt  fomewhat  of 
tliat  Divine  Fire  and  inward  Strength  which  I  am  per- 
fuaded  the  poor  Beggar  felt,  when  bearing  his  Teftimony 
for  the  Blefled  Jesus,  before  a  Bench  of  Wolves  in 
Sheep's  Cloathing.  Towards  the  Conclufion  of  my  Dif- 
courfe,  I  read  to  the  People  fome  Extrads  I  had  taken 
from  Dr.  Edwards  againft  Archbiftiop  TiHotfon's  Writ- 
ings ;  and  then  appealed  to  them  where  was  thePrefump- 
tion  in  pretending  to  teach  even  Hbn. — It  cannot  be  ex- 
prelTed  how  many  carnal  Hearts  were  difturbed  by  my 
Teftimony  againft  the  Archbifhop,  that  great  and  good 
Man,  as  they  call  him.  But  before  I  have  done,  I  do 
not  defpair  of  feeing  People  bring  his  Works,  as  they 
once  brought  the  Books  of  curious  Arts,  and  burn  them 
before  all  Men. — It  is  difficult  to  determine  which  have 
done  the  moft  Mifchief, — Have  Compajfion,  fweeteji  JE- 
SUS !  on  thy  Flock,  and  fuffer  them  no  longer  to  be  given 
over  to  fuch  Guides^  who  had  the  Form  of  Religion^  but 
never  felt  the  effe^ual  Power  of  it  in  their  Hearts  I 

-  Wednefday,  April  i6.  Talked  in  the  Morning  with 
three  or  four  who  v/ere  convided,  and  I  believe  I  can 
fay,  converted  by  my  Miniftry  laft  Fall. — In  the  After- 
noon two  Men  came  to  me  j  one  of  which  with  a  full 
Heart,  cried  out,  Blefied  be  God,  for  you,  under  Him, 
have  begotten  me  again  to  a  lively  Hope. — Preached  up- 
on Society  Hill  twice  ;  in  the  Morning  to  about  6000, 
in  the  Evening  to  near  8000  People. — God  was  much 
C  2  with 


20  Mr,  Wh  I  t  e  f  I  e  l  d V  Journal 

with  me  in  both  Exerclfes. — In  the  Afternoon  I  was  par- 
ticularly aflifted  in  fpeaking  to  thefe  Words,  Yea^  and 
all  that  will  live  godly  hi  CHRIST  JESUS  ynujl  fuffer 
Perfecut'ion. — The  Storm,  I  find,  is  gathering  apace. — 
As  the  Word  of  God  increafes,  fo  will  the  Rage  and 
Oppofition  of  the  Devil. — LORD,fupport  us  in  a  Suffer- 
ing Hour,  and  overjlmdow  us  by  thy  IVings  till  the  Tyran- 
ny of  our  Adverfaries  Jljall  be  overpaji  !  Amen,  LORD 
JESUS,  Amen. 

Abington   and  Philadelphia, 

Thurfday,  April  17.  Rode  laft  Night  after  Sermon 
about  eight  Miles. — Lay  at  a  Friend's  Houfe,  and  preach- 
ed this  Morning  to  near  3  or  4000  People  at  Abingdon, 
a  Diftrift  under  the  Care  of  one  Mr.  Treat  (a  Dilient- 
ing  Minifler)  to  whom  God  has  been  pleafed  lately  to 
lliew  Mercy.  —  He  has  been  a  Preacher  of  the  Doctrines 
of  Grace  for  fome  Years ;  but  was  deeply  convinced, 
when  I  was  here  laft,  that  he  had  not  experienced  them 
in  his  Heart. — And  foon  after  I  went  away,  he  attempt- 
ed to  preach,  but  could  not.  He  therefore  told  his  Con- 
gregation, how  miferably  he  had  deceived  both  himfelf 
and  them  ;  and  defircd  them  that  were  gifted,  to  pray  for 
him. — Ever  fmce,  he  has  continued  to  feek  Jesus 
Christ  forrowing,  and  is  now  under  deep  Convidions, 
and  a  very  humbling  Senfe  of  Sin. — He  preaches  as  ufual, 
tho'  he  has  not  a  full  Aflurance  of  Faith  ;  becaufe  he  faid 
it  was  heft  to  be  found  in  the  Way  of  Duty.  I  believe 
God  is  preparing  him  for  great  Services,  and  I  hope  he 
will  alfo  be  a  Means  of  awakening  fome  dead,  falfe-heart- 
ed  Preachers  among  the  Difienters,  who  hold  the  Form 
of  found  Words,  but  never  felt  the  Power  of  them  in 
their  own  Souls. — I  obferved  a  great  Prefence  of  God  in 
our  Aflembly,  and  the  Word,  as  I  was  informed  after- 
wards, came  with  a  Soul-convidling  and  comforting 
Power  to  many. — When  1  had  done,  I  took  a  little  Re- 
fre/liment,  baptized  a  Child,  and  halted  to  Philadelphia, 
where  Ipreached  to  upwards  of  loooo  People,  upon  the 
Woman  that  was  cured  of  her  .bloody  Iflue. —  Hundreds 
I  found,  were  gracioufly  melted;  and  many,  I  hope,  not 
only  tiironged  round,  but  alfo  touched  the  Lord  Jesus 

Christ 


nt  PHILADELPHIA.        zi 

Christ  by  Faith.  Near  ten  came  to  me  after  Sermon, 
under  deep  Convidions,  and  could  tell  me  the  Time 
when,  and  Manner  how  the  Lord  Jesus  made  Wm- 
lelf  manifeft  to  their  Souls. — What  gives  me  greater 
Hopes  that  this  Work  is  of  God,  is,  becaufe  thefe  Con- 
victions have  remained  on  many  ever  fince  I  vv'as  here 
laft.  Some  have  not  only  Righteoufnefs  and  Peace,  but 
alfo  Joy  in  the  Holy  Ghost. — Blefled  be  God,  there 
is  a  moft  glorious  Work  begun  in  this  Province.  The 
Word  of  God  every  Day  mightily  prevails,  and  Satan 
Jofes  Ground  apace.— ZOi^£)  JESUS,  Ji retch  out  thy 
jfirm,  and  let  not  this  Work  be  Jloppcd  till  -we  fee  that 
new  Heaven  and  new  Earth  wherein  dwelleth  Righteouf- 
nefs I 

German-To%vn  and  White-Marfi. 

Triday,  April  i8.  Was  employed  for  tw^o  Hours  this 
Morning  in  giving  Anfwers  to  feveral  that  came  to  me 
under  ftrong  Convidions;  amongft  whom  was  a  Negroe 
or  two,  and  a  young  Girl  of  about  fourteen  Years  of 
Age,  who  was  turned  out  of  the  Houfe  where  (he  board- 
ed, becaufe  (he  would  hear  me,  and  would  not  learn  to 
dance. —  Set  out  about  nine  o'  Clock  for  White- Marfhy 
about  twelve  Miles  ixoxn  Philadelphia. — Had  near  forty 
Horfe  In  Company  before  we  reached  the  Place.  Preach- 
ed to  upv/ards  of  2000  People,  and  perceived  great  Num- 
bers much  melted  down,  and  brought  under  Con\'id:ions, 
when  I  made  free  Offers  to  them  of  Jesus  and  his  Be- 
nefits, if  they  would  believe  on  him. — Took  a  little  Re- 
frefhment  at  a  Qiiaker's.  Baptized  two  Children  be- 
longing to  the  Chufch  oi  England  at  his  Houfe. — Re- 
turned back  to  and  preached  at  Gertnan-Town,  with 
much  of  the  Divine  Prefence,  to  near  4000  Hearers, 
and  came  to  Philadelphia  about  feven  in  the  Evening, 
refrefhed  both  in  Body  and  Soul. — Biejfed  be  the  LORD 
GOD  of  Jacob,  whofeems  to  he  building  up  his  Spiritual 
Jerufalem,  and  to  be  gathering  together  the  Outcajls  of 
ifrae]. 


PHI' 


2  2         Mr,  Wh  I  t  e  f  I  e  l  d  V  journal 
PHILADELPHIA. 

Saturday^  April  19.  Was  ftill  much  engaged  in  giving 
Anfwers,  and  praying  witii  clivers  that  applied  to  me  un- 
der deep  Convidions  of  their  damnable  Condition  by 
Nature.  Preached  Morning  and  Evening  to  7  or  8000 
People  each  Time  ;  and  it  much  rejoiced  my  Heart  to 
iee  with  what  Order  and  Devotion  they  conftantly  at- 
tend.—  Scoffers  feem  to  beat  a  Stand  what  to  fay.  They 
mutter  in  Coffee-  Houfes,  give  a  Curfe,  drink  a  Bowl  of 
Punch,  and  then  cry  out  againft  me  for  not  preaching 
up  more  Morality.  Poor  Men  !  where  is  the  Morality 
they  fo  much  boafl  of?  If  God  judges  them,  as  he 
certainly  will  do,  by  their  Morality,  on  which  ihey  fo 
much  rely  ;  out  of  their  own  Mouths  will  he  condemn 
them.  Their  Morality,  falfely  fo  called,  will  prove 
their  Damnation.  They  fay,  but  do  not.  And  how 
can  they,  fmce  they  are  ignorant  of  a  living  Faith  in 
Jesus  Christ,  which  alone  can  enable  us  to  do  any 
Thing  acceptable  in  the  Sight  of  God. —  From  fuch 
profane  MoraUjis  may  I  turn  away.  My  Soiil^  come  not 
nigh  their  Dwellings.  Mine  Honour^  be  not  thu  united 
unto  them. 

Sunday^  April  20.  Preached  this  Morning  at  feven 
o*  Clock  with  much  Clearnefs  and  Freedom,  to  about 
10,000  People,  and  colledied  110  /.  Sterling  {ox  my  poor 
Orphans.  The  People  threw  in  their  Mites  willingly, 
and  thereby  reminded  me  much  of  what  God  had  done 
for  me  at  Moorfidds  and  Kenningi on- Common,  when  I 
was  laft  in  England.  Went  to  Church  Morning  and 
Evening;  and  heard  the  Commilfary  preach  a  Sermon 
upon  Jujiification  by  Worky^  from  James  ii.  18. —  Ma- 
ny People  feeing  me  go  in,  followed  ;  and  Numbers  of 
them  told  me  afterv/ards,  the  Commiffary  (tho'  undefign- 
edly)  had  confirmed  them  more  and  more  in  the  Truths 
which  I  had  delivered.  In  the  Evening  I  preached  from 
the  fame  Words  to  about  15,000  People,  and  confuted 
the  falfe  Dodfrines  and  many  fundamental  Errors  con- 
tained in  the  Com  miliary 's  Difcourfe.  For  he  all  along 
took  Faith  to  be  only  an  Ailent  to  the  Truths  of  the 

Gofpei. 


af  GREENWICH,  &c.        23 

Gofpel.  He  faid,  St.  Paul  and  St.  James  fpoke  of  the 
fame  Kind  of  Juftification.  That  Works  mentioned  by 
St.  Paul  were  only  the  Works  of  the  Ceremonial  Law. 
That  the  Dodrine  of  an  imputed  Righteoufnefs  had 
done  much  Harm,  and  hindered  the  Converfion  of  the 
Heathens.  That  we  were  to  be  juftified  by  our  Works 
at  thelaft  Day,  and  confequently  were  to  be  juftified  in 
the  fame  Manner  now. — To  all  thefe  Things  I  endea- 
voured to  anfwer  diftinflly  ;  and  was  obliged,  in  the 
Conclufion  of  my  Difcourfe,  to  tell  the  People,  fince 
Christ  was  not  preached  in  the  Church,  they  might  go 
hear  him  preached  where  they  could.  After  Sermon  we 
colleded  80  /.  Currency  for  my  Children  in  Georgia^ 
and  came  home,  rejoicing  in  Spirit,  to  fee  how  Satan 
was  continually  bruifing  his  own  Head.  Little  do  my 
Enemies  think  what  Service  they  do  me.  If  they  did, 
one  would  think,  out  of  Spite  they  would  even  defift 
from  oppofing  me.  Oh  what  a  good  Majier  is  JESUS 
CHRIST  f 

Creenwicb  and  Glouce/Ier  in  the  WeJl-'Jerfeys, 

Monday,  April  i\.  Had  frefti  Application  made  to 
me  '<a^  Perfons  under  Convidlions.  Went  by  Water  a- 
bout  four  Miles,  and  then  rode,  in  Company  with  many 
others,  who  came  to  meet  me,  to  Greenwich  in  the 
Wejl-Jerfeys,  and  about  twelve  Miles  from  Philadelphia, 
There  being  a  Miftake  made  in  the  News,  about  the 
Place  where  I  was  to  preach,  I  had  not  above  1500 
Hearers.  At  firft  I  thought  1  was  fpeaking  to  Stocks  and 
Stones  :  But  before  I  had  done,  the  Power  of  the  Lord 
came  upon  the  Congregation,  the  Holy  Ghost  over- 
ihadowed  them,  and  a  gracious  Melting  was  vifible  in 
moft  that  heard.  Sermon  being  ended,  I  dmei  with  my 
Friends  ;  was  taken  very  ill  in  the  Way  ;  lay  down  for 
about  an  Hour.  Rode  back  to  Glouccjlcr  ;  where  I  took 
Horfe  in  the  Morning,  and  preached  with  fome  Power 
to  about  1500  People.  It  being  but  four  Miles  diftant 
from  Philadelphia,  many  came  in  Boats  from  thence.-— 
And  the  Moon  fhining  very  bright,  we  went  back  to 
Town  very  pleafantly.  God  v/as  pleafed  to  communi- 
cate frefli  Strength  to  ray  Soul  \  we  fung  Hymns  good 

Part 


24        Mr.  Wh  I  T'E  F I E  L D 'i  yoiima! 

Part  of  the  Way,  and  God  enabled  me  to  fecond  them  by 
a  warm  Exhortation.  About  eight  at  Night  we  reached 
Philadelphia,  with  no  fmall  Satisfadlon  in  my  own  Soul, 
that  1  had  this  Day  been  plowing  up  fome  Fallow- 
Ground,  and  opening  a  Way  into  a  Place  where  1  find 
there  has  been  a  great  Famine  of  the  Word  of  God. — 
I  muft  confefs  I  am,  in  that  refpecfl:,  like-minded  with 
St.  Paid,  and  defire  to  go  chiefly  where  Christ  has 
not  been  named. — Oh  that  the  LORD  may  endue  vie 
zvith  his  Meeknefs,  Holinefs  and  Zeal,  and  then  after  I 
f  reach  to  others,  I  jhall  not  he  a  Cajiaway  myfelf.  Amen^ 
LORD  JESUS  !  Amen. 

PHILADELPHIA. 

Tuefday,  April  22.  Hearing  a  Sloop  was  going  to 
Georgia,  I  fhut  up  myfelf  for  fome  Time  in  the  Morn- 
ing, in  order  to  write  fome  Letters  to  my  dear  Friends 
at  Sava7inah.  Preached  both  Morning  and  Evening  to 
rather  larger  Congregations  than  I  have  yet  ken  in  a 
Week-day.  There  were  not  lefs  than  io,ooo  People. — 
A  fvveet  Power  was  amongll:  them  ;  and  when  I  came  to 
take  my  Farewell,  being  about  to  depart  for  New-York 
on  the  Morrow,  a  great  Number  was  diflblved  into 
Tears,  and  wept  forely.  Many  of  the  Negroes  were  al- 
fo  much  affected,  and  I  truft  fome  will  now  experiment- 
ally know  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  feel  the  Power  of  his 
Refurrecl:ion.  This  Day  I  bought  5000  Acres  of  Land 
on  the  Forks  of  Delaware.  Ordered  a  large  Houfe  to  be 
built  thereon  for  the  Inftrudlion  of  thefe  poor  Creatures. 
The  Land,  I  hear,  is  exceeding  rich.  It  is  a  Mannor, 
and  pays  only  a  White-Rofe  yearly  for  Chief  Rent. — 
I  took  up  fo  much,  becaufe  I  intend  fettling  fome  Englijh 
Friends  there,  when  I  come  next  from  England.  1 
have  called  it  Nazareth ;  and  I  truft  in  a  few  Years  the 
Lord  will  let  us  fee  much  Good  come  out  of  it. — 
Amen,  LO^D   JESUS,  Anen. 

Went  in  the  Evening  to  vifit  a  young  Woman  under 
deep  Convidlions.  She  was  ftruck  down  by  the  Power 
of  God's  Word  on  Sunday,  and  has  continued,  as  Paul 
did,  ever  fince  lick  in  Body,  and  under  great  Agony  of 
Soul,  I  talked  and  prayed  with  her,  and  with  near  twen- 
ty 


NESHAMINl  25 

ty  more  that  came  into  the  Room.  My  Soul  was  ex- 
ceedingly carried   out,    and  the   Power  of   the  Holy 

Ghost  defcended  in  a  wonderful  Manner  upon  moft 
that  were  there.  I  alfo  gave  them  a  ftrong  Exhortation. 
They  wept  forely  and  prayed  earneftly  ;  and  I  have  not 
feea  Circumftances  more  like  thofe  of  the  Apoftles,  when 
the  Holy  Ghost  fhook  the  Room,  wherein  they  were 
lifting  up  their  Voice  with  one  Accord  to  the  moft  High 
God.  By  this  we  know,  O  Lord,  that  thou  art  the 
fame  Yeflerday,  and  To-day,  and  for  ever. — Grant  that 
the  HOLT  GHOST  may  in  like  powerful  Manner 
fall  on  all  them  that  Jhall  hear  the  Word  froniy  or  pray 
with  me  at  any  other  Time  !    Amen,  and  Amen. 

NESHAMINL 

Widnefday,  April  23.  Was  more  than  ordinarily  em- 
ployed the  firil  Part  of  the  Morning  in  writing  Letters, 
anfw'ering  People,  and  preparing  for  my  Journey.  Set 
out  about  eight  with  many  Friends  j  baited  at  a  Friend's 
Houfe  in  the  Mid-way. — Reached  Nejhamini  near  three 
in  the  Afternoon,  and  preached  to  upwards  of  5000 
People  in  old  Mr.  Tennenfs  Meeting-Houfe  Yard.  When 
I  came  there,  my  Body,  through  Heat  and  Labour,  was 
fo  weak  and  faint,  that  my  Knees  fmote  one  againft  an- 
other, my  Vifage  changed,  and  I  v/as  ready  to  drop 
down  as  foon  as  I  had  finifhed  my  Prayer.  But  God 
was  pleafed  fo  to  revive  me,  by  Communications  from 
himfelf,  that  I  fpoke  with  great  Demonftration  of  the 
Spirit  and  with  Power.  A  very  great  Commotion  was 
in  the  Hearts  of  the  Hearers.  Great  Numbers  were 
much  melted  ;  and  one  in  particular,  after  Sermon  came 
to  me  with  ftrong  Cryings  and  Tears,  faying,  Tou  have 
brought  me  under  deep  Cofivi^ions,  whatjlmll  I  do  to  be 
faved  f  I  gave  him  the  Apoftle's  Anfwer. — Believe  on 
the  LORD  JESUS,  and  thou  fl)  a  It  he  faved.^  'Upwards 
of  fifty,  I  hear,  have  been  htely  convidled  about  this 
Place. — The  LORD  grant  his  Arrows  may  flick  fafi  in 
them  till  they  have  got  a  Clofing  Interejl  %vith  JESUS 
CHRIST.  For  many,  I  find,  receive  the  JVord  with 
Joy  for  a  Seafon,  hut  having  no  true  Root  in  themf elves,  foon 
fall  aivay.  Better  were  it  for  tliem  that  always  contmue 
D  thuS;, 


26         Mr. WHiTEFiELD'i  Joumd 

thus,  that  they  had  never  been  convifted  at  all.  LORD, 
if  it  be  thy  IFill,  have  Mercy  on  thefe  and  fuch-like  un- 
happy Apojlates^  and  let  them  be  renewed  again  u^to  Re- 
pentance /     Jmen  and  J?nen. 

Montgomery  and   Shtppack. 

-  Thurfday^  April  24.  Was hofpitably' entertained  with  my 
Friends  lait  Night  at  Monlgomery^  about  eight  Miles  from 
Ncjharnini^  whither  I  came  to  make  this  Day's  Journey 
the  eafier.  Wrote  fome  more  Letters  to  my  Flock  and 
Family  at  Savannah.  Preached  at  Shippack^  fixteen 
Miles  from  Montgomery^  where  the  Dutch  People  hve. — 
It  was  feemingly  a  very  Wildernefs  Part  of  the  Country  ; 
but  there  were  not  lefs,  I  believe,  than  2000  Hearers. 
God  was  with  me  much  at  the  latter  End  of  the  Ser- 
mon. And  when  I  had  done,  Peter  Boehler,  a  Deacon 
of  the  Moravian  Church,  a  dear  Lover  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  preached  to  his  Countrymen  in  Dutch. 
Travelling  and  preaching  in  the  Sun  again,  weakened 
me  much,  and  made  me  very  fick  ;  but  by  the  Divine 
Alliftance  I  took  Horfe,  rode  twelve  Miles,  and  preach- 
ed in  the  Evening  to  about  3000  People  at  a  Dutch  Man's 
Plantation,  who  feemcd  to  have  drank  deeply  into  God's 
Holy  Spirit.  Here  God  much  ftrengthened  and 
quickened  me.  The  German  Brethren  were  exceeding 
loving  to  me,  and  I  fpent  the  Evening  with  many  of 
them  in  a  moft  agreeable  Manner.  The  Order,  Seri- 
oulhefs  and  Devotion  of  thefe  People  in  common  Life,  is 
moft  worthy  of  Lnitation.  I  never  faw  fo  much  Sim- 
plicity as  in  them.  Surely,  God  was  with  us  this 
Night,  They  prayed  and  fung  in  their  own  Language, 
and  then  God  enlarged  my  Heart  to  pray  in  ours.  I 
know  not  when  I  have  prayed  with  much  greater  Power  ; 
many  Tears  trickled  down  my  Face,  and  afterwards  I 
was  in  a  great  Agony  in  the  Field.  Do  thou^  O  blejfed 
jfESUS,  who  waft  in  an  Agony  in  the  Garden.,  hearken 
to  the  Petitions  thou  didjl  enable  ?nc  in  that  Hour '  to 
put  up  ! 


J/nivcil 


at  NEJV^BRUNSWICK.       27 

Aimvell  in  the  Eafi  Jerfeys, 

Friday^  April  2^.  Rufe  before  Day.  Sung  and  pray- 
ed with  my  own  Friends  and  the  Ger?tian  Brethren.  Set 
cut  before  Sun-nfing,  and  reached  Armvell^  thirty  five 
Miles  from  Shippack,  where  T  had  appointed  to  preach 
ty  fix  at  Night.  Some  Thoufands  of  People  were 
gathered  together,  expetSting  I  would  have  been  there 
by  Noon  ;  but  Mr.  Gilbert  Tennant  and  Mr.  Roiuland^ 
mentioned  in  my  laft  Journal,  coming  there  to  meet 
me,  had  given  the  People  three  Sermons.—  In  my  Way 
thither,  the  Lord  was  pleafed  to  bring  me  low  by  in- 
ward Trials,  and  very  great  Weaknefs  of  Body,  occa-. 
fioned  by  the  Heat  of  the  Sun,  want  of  Sleep,  and  the 
Length  of  the  Journey.  But  before  I  had  preached  fix 
Minutes,  bodily  and  fpiritual  Strength  were  given  me, 
and  the  Lord  was  pleafed  to  fet  his  Seal  to  what  he  en- 
abled me  to  deliver. — After  Sermon,  a  Friend  took  me 
in  his  Chair  to  an  old  Chriftian's,  who  invited  me  and  my 
Company  to  his  Houfe,  five  Miles  diftant  from  the  Place 
where  I  preached.  We  were  comfortably  refrefhed  un- 
der his  Roof,  and  tho'  my  Body  was  weak,  yet  my  Soul 
was  fl:rongin  the  Lord,  and  in  the  Power  of  his  Might. 
Oh  that  I  may  wax  Jironger  and  Jironger  every  Day. 
Amen  and  Amen  I 

NEW-BRUNSWICK 

Saturday,  April  26.  Was  much  comforted  and  re- 
freflied  both  in  Body  and  Soul  laft  Night,  after  I  went 
to  Reft.  Sung  Pfalms,  prayed,  and  fet  out  for  New- 
Brioifiuick  about  eight.  Reached  thither  by  four  in  the 
Afternoon,  and  preached  to  about  2000  Hearers  in  the 
Evening.  Man)^  were  afFedled.  Here  alfo  my  true 
Chriftian  Friend  and  Hoft,  Mt.  Noble  hom  New-York^ 
gave  me  the  Meeting,  and  brought  me  a  Packet  of  Let- 
ters from  Savannah^  which  affedted  me  much.  Blefled 
be  God,  many  of  my  Friends  in  the  Orphan  Houfe, 
I  truft,  will  be  Friends  of  God.  Grant  this,  0  LORD, 
fgr  thy  Mgrcfs  Sake  ! 

D  2  Sun^. 


2  8  Mr,  Wh  I  t  e  f  I  e  l  D'i  Journa! 

Sunday,  Jpnl  27.  Was  told  laft  Night  by  Mr.  Gil- 
bert Tennant,  of  two  that  were  favingly  brought  home 
by  my  Miniilry  when  here  lalL — Got  a  little  Time  to 
Write  a  Letter  to  my  Engl'ijh  Friends,  giving  them  a 
fhort  Account  of  what  God  was  doing  here. — Preached 
Morning  and  Evening  to  near  7  or  8000  People  :  And 
God's  Power  was  fo  much  amongfl  us  in  the  Afternoon 
Sermon,  that  had  I  proceeded,  the  Cries  and  Groans  of 
the  Congregation,  I  believe,  would  have  drowned  my 
Voice.  One  Woman  was  flruck  down,  and  a  general 
Cry  went  through  the  AiTcmbly.  The  Power  of  God 
fell  much  upon  my  Heart,  and  I  believe  the  Word  was 
fharper  than  a  two-edge4  Sword.  We  colled^ed  both 
Times  upwards  of  L.  20  Sterling  for  my  Orphans  j  and 
at  >^  ight  a  Woman  came  to  me  under  flrong  Convidli- 
ons.  She  told  me  fhe  had  often  been  fomewhat  moved  j 
but  now  fhe  hoped  God  had  flruck  her  home. —  She 
cried  out,  I  can  fee  nothing  but  Hell ! — Oh  that  all  wer^ 
in  as  good  a  Way  to  Heaven  ! 

Bnmfwick^  Woodbridge^  Elizabeth-Town   and 

NeW'Tork. 

Monday,  April  28.  Underwent  great  Confli*?ts  in  my 
Soul  laft  Night  and  this  Morning.  Wrote  fome  Letters 
to  my  dear  EngliJJ)  Friends,  who  are  continually  upon 
my  Heart.  Took  a  forrowful  Leave  of  Captain  Glad- 
man,  and  my  dear  Brother  and  Fellow-Traveller  Mr. 
Seward,  whom  I  have  difpatched  to  England  to  bring 
me  over  a  Fellow-Labourer,  and  to  tranfacft  feveral  other 
Affairs  of  the  laft  Importance.  Captain  Gladman  is  the 
Perfon  mentioned  in  mylaft  Journal,  who  was  caft  away 
at  the  Gulph  of  Florida^  and  whom  God  made  me  an 
Inftrument  of  converting  in  my  Paffage  to  England. — 
Hitherto  he  has  had  the  Command  of  our  Sloop  :  But  be- 
ing obliged  to  difpatch  him  on  Bufmefs  to  England,  I 
have  now  committed  the  Care  of  the  Sloop  to  his  Mate, 
whom  God  was  pleafed  to  bring  home  to  himfelf  when 
I  was  laft  at  Philadelphia.  Not  long  fmce  he  was  an 
abandoned  Prodigal,  and  Ring-leader  in  Vice  ;  but 
God  flruck  him  to  the  Heart.     Captain  Gladman  had 

piayed 


at  BRUNSWICK,  &c,         29 

prayed  that  God  would  fend  him  a  Mate.  This  young 
Man  was  ftrongly  drawn  to  come  and  ofFer  himfelf  j  the 
Captain  hired  him  ;  and  now,  I  believe,  he  is  a  Child  of  , 
God.  Numbers  at  Philadelphia  cannot  but  fee  the 
new  Creature  in  him  ;  and  yet  the  Dodlrine  of  free  Ju- 
ftification  by  Faith  in  Christ  Je.^us,  does  Harm  to 
the  Chriftian  World. — Surely  fuch  Talkers  plainly  prove, 
that  they  never  yet  knew  what  it  was  to  believe  on  the 
jLoRD  Jesus  with  their  whole  Heart. 

Set  out  about  eight  in  the  Morning,  and  reachecf 
JVoodbridge  by  ten,  where  I  preached  to  about  2000 
People.  Here  again  I  perceived  my  bodily  Strength  was 
fmall ;  but  God  enabled  me  to  fpeak  home  to  many- 
Hearts  ;  for  many  were  affedcd,  blefled  be  God. —  Af- 
ter Sermon,  I  and  my  Friends  dined  at  the  Difienting 
Minifter's  Houfe,  who  invited  me  to  preach  ;  and  then 
we  hafted  to  Elizabeth-Tciuii,  where  the  People  had  been 
waiting  for  me  fome  Hours. — I  preached  in  the  Meet' 
jng-Houfe,  as  when  I  was  there  laft.  It  was  full,  and 
was  fjppofed  to  contain  2000  People.  Near  ten  DifTent- 
ing  Minifters  were  prefent,  and  two  Church  Minifters  5 
but  they  did  not  tarry  very  long.  God  gave  me  much 
Freedom  of  Speech.  I  dealt  very  plainly  with  the  Pres- 
byterian Clergy  ;  many  of  whom,  I  am  perfuadcd, 
preach  the  Dodirines  of  Grace  to  others,  without  being 
converted  themfelves.  No  doubt  fome  were  offended  : 
But  I  care  not  for  any  Sedl:  or  Party  of  Men.  As  I  love 
all  that  love  the  Lord  Jesus,  of  what  Communion  fo- 
ever  j  fo  I'll  reprove  all,  whether  Di {Tenters,  or  not  Dif- 
fenters,  who  take  his  Word  into  their  Mouths,  but  ne- 
ver felt  him  dwelling  in  their  Hearts,  Such  clofe-heart- 
ed  Hypocrites  are  the  Bane  of  the  Chriftian  Church. — . 
LORD  JESUS,  co7ivince  and  cenvert  them  for  thy  Mer- 
cy''s  Sake  !  J)nen  arid  Ainen. 

After  Sermon  I  took  Leave  of  Mr.  Gilbert  Tennanty 
-and  Mr.  Crofs,  z  Minifler  mentioned  in  my  laft  Jour- 
nal, who  accompanied  me  thus  far,  and  told  me  their 
Souls  v^ere  much  refrelhed  by  this  Day's  Work.  LORD, 
not  ufito  me,  not  unto  me^  but  unto  thy  Name  hi  all  the 
Glory  ! 

After  I  parted  from  them,  I  intended  to  ride  fix 
Miles ;  But  being  over-ruled  bv  the  Advice  of  Friends, 

I 


30         Mr.  Wh I tef I eldV  Journal 

I  flopped,  and  lay  at  an  Inn  all  Night,  near  the  Water- 
fide,  where  People  take  Boat  to  go  to  New-York.  Our 
Converfation  tended  to  the  Ufe  of  edifying;  and  God 
was  pleafed  to  give  me  an  Appetite  to  my  bodily  Food, 
•which  I  have  not  had  before  for  fome  Time.  Surely 
tliis  frail  Body  cannot  hold  me  long. — When^  O  LORD, 
Witt  thou  fct  7ny  Imprlfoned  Soul  at  Liberty  !  JVhen  JIxill 
I  be  dijfolved  and  be  with  thee,  O  CHRIST!  LORD, 
give  me  Patience  to  vjait  till  that  blejfcd  Time  co?ne  ! 

NE^F-rORK. 

Tuefday,  Jpril  ic).  Took  Boat  about  nine  in  the 
Morning. —  Was  JDleflcd  with  a  fair  Gale  of  Wind, 
■which  brought  us  to  New-York  before  Noon. — Here  my 
deaj-  Friends  kindly  received  me,  and  here  alfo  I  met 
With  Mr.  William  Tennant.,  who  refrefhed  my  Heart, 
by  ttlliiig  me  what  the  Lord  was  doing  for  Numbers 
ot  Souls  in  the  Highlands,  where  he  has  lately  been, — 
Surely  Jesus  Christ  is  getting  himfelf  the  Vidlory  in- 
deed !  About  five  in  the  Evening  I  preached  in  the 
Common  to  5  or  6000  People.  But  obferved  no  Scof- 
fers, as  when  I  was  here  laft. — The  People  were  lldl 
and  quiet  after  I  began  ;  and  tho'  I  did  not  perceive 
much  Power  in  the  Congregation,  yet  God  enabled  me 
to  fpc-ak  with  all  Boldnefs.  Oh  that  I  may  never  be 
ajhamed  of  CHRIST  or  of  his  Go/pel :  For  it  has  been  the 
Povjcr  of  GOD  to  my  Salvation,   O  Grace  !  Grace  ! 

■  JVednefday,  ADril  30.  Preached  this  Morning  from  a 
Scaffold,  erected  for  t.hat  Purpofe,  to  a  fomewhat  lefs  Con- 
gregation than  the  laft  Night,  but  with  much  greater 
Power  :  For  towards  the  Conclullon  of  my  Difcourfe, 
God's  Spirit  came  upon  the  Preacher  and  the  People, 
fo  that  thev  were  melted  down  exceedingly. — Afterwards 
I  began  to  collect  Money  from  private  Hands  for  my 
Orphans,  and  met  with  SucceG. — BleJJed  he  GOD  !  who 
has  the  Hearts  of  all  Men  in  his  Hands, — Dined  at  Mr. 
P — 's,  but  was  obliged  to  retire  as  fonn  as  Dinner  was  o- 
vcr ;  for  my  Body  was  weak,  and  my  Soul  was  in  an 
unfpeakable' Agony  for  near  an  Hour.  At  length  I  dropt 
afleep,  but  rofe  about  five  in  the  Kvfning,  and  preached 

ta 


at  FLAT'BU^H,  (^c.  31 

to  upwards  of  6  or  7000  People  on  our  Lord's  Temp- 
tations.—  Oh  that  I  may  follow  the  Captain  oftny  Salva- 
tion^ and  be  willing  to  be  tempted  in  all  Things  like  unto 
my  Brethren^  that  I  may  be  experimentally  able  to  fiucour 
fuch  as  apply  to  me  when  te?npted  !  Amen^  LORD  JE- 
SUS, A7nen. 

FlaU^uJh  on  hong-ljland. 

Tkirfday,  May  I.  Went  in  a  Ferry  this  Morn- 
ing, over  to  Flat-Bujh  on  Long-IJland ;  on  the  Eaft 
Part  of  which,  God  has  lately  begun  a  mod:  glorious 
Work,  by  the  Miniftry  of  two  young  Presbyterian  Mi- 
nifters,  who  have  walked  in  an  uncommon  Ligiit  of 
God's  Countenance  for  along  while  together.  Pro/per 
thou,  O  LORD,  more  and  njfire  the  Work  of  their  Hands 
npon  them  !     Oh  profper  thou  their  handy  ll'^ork  ! 

At  our  coming  to  Flat-Bujh,  the  Dutch  Miniflers  re- 
ceived me  with  all  Civility,  and  gave  me  the  Ufe  of  their 
Church.  There  werealfo  feven  or  eight  Diffenting  Mi- 
nifters  prefent. — I  fcarce  was  ever  enabled  to  fpeak  of  the 
Dodlrines  of  Grace  with  greater  Freedom  and  Clearnefs. 
I  continued  difcourfmg  on  the  Knowledge  we  ought  to 
have  of  Jesus  Christ  near  an  Hour  and  a  Half. — 
God's  Spirit  went  through  the  Congregation,  Many 
People,  andfomeofthe  Minillers  wept.  My  own  Soul 
was  wonderfully  carried  out ;  and  at  laft  I  applied  myfelf 
to  the  Minifters  themfelves. —  Oh  that  ive  all  luere  a 
Flame  of  Fire  / 

About  two  in  the  Afternoon,  having  a  fair  Wind,  we 
returned  to  Ncw-Tork  ;  where  I  received  another  com- 
fortable Packet  of  Letters  from  Charles-Town  and  Sa- 
'vannab,  amongft  which  were  two  or  three  from  my 
little  Orphans.  Here  God  waspleafed  again  to  humble 
me  both  in  Body  and  Soul,  and  caufed  me  to  mourn,  like 
a  Sparrow  fitting  alone  upon  the  Houfe-Top.  I  preach- 
ed in  the  Evening  at  New-York  to  as  large  a  Congrega- 
tion as  ever.  But  my  Spirits  being  exhauiled,  and  God 
being  pieafed  to  fufpend  his  wonted  Affiftance,  I  preached, 
as  I  thought,  but  heavily.  But  I  have  been  too  apt  to 
build  on  my  Frames,  and  think  I  do  no  good,  or  do  not 
pleafe  God,  only  becaufel  do  not  plcafe  myfelf:   For  I 

have 


■3 2         Mr.  WniTEFiELD'i  Journal 

have  often  found,  that  my  feemingly  lefs  powerful  Dif- 
courfes  have  been  much  owned  by  God. — And  I  find  it 
abfolutely  neceflary  that  Gofpel  Minifters  fhould  meet 
"with  fuch  Thorns  in  the  Flefti,  that  both  Minilters  and 
Hearers  may  know  themfelves  to  be  but  Men. — LORD, 
Jhew  that  thou  doji  love  ?ne,  by  hmnbling  and  keeping  me 
humble  as  long  as  I  live  I  The  Means  I  leave  to  thee.  I 
cm  thy  Cloy.,  thou  art  the  Potter.,  ynould  me,  as  it  feemeth 
^ood  to  thy  Sovereign  Good-will  and  Pkafure  !  Amtn  and 
Amen. 

NEW-YORK. 

F?-iday.,  May  2.    Preached  twice    in    the  Field,  and 
Once  in  the  Meeting- Houfe,  and  was  agreeably  refrefhed 
in  the  Evening  with  one  Mr.  Davenport.^    whom   GoD  ' 
has  lately  highly  honoured,   by  making    Ufe  of  his    Mi- 
niftry  for    the  Converfion  of  many  at  the  Eaft  End  of 
Long-IJland.     His  Soul  feemed  to  be  much   wrapped  up 
in  God,  and  he  told  me  that  God  had   brought  home 
feveral  Children  about  eleven  or  twelve  Years  old,  as  well 
as  many  grown  Perfons.     He  has   been  favoured   with 
jarge  Communications  from,  the    BlefTed  Jesus,  and  is 
looked   upon  as  an  Enthufiafl   and  a  Madman  by  many 
of  his  Reverend  Pharifaical  Brethren  :    And,  as  far  as  I 
can   find,  there  is  as  great  an  Enmity  againft  the  Work 
t)f  God  in  the  Hearts  of  moft  even  of  the  Diflentcrs, 
tho'  they  preach  the  Do£lrines  of  Grace,  as  there  is  in 
our  Clergy,  who,  for  the  generality,  intirely  difown  them. 
As  y amies  and  Ja?nbres  withftood  Mofes,  fo  do  thefe  alfo 
refill:  the  Truth.     Men  thry  are  of  corrupt  Minds,  and 
reprobate  concerning  the  Faith.     But  I  truft  they  will  not 
proceed  much  farther  ;  for  their  Folly  fhall  be  manifeft 
unto  all   Men,  as  their?  alfo  was. — Hajlen  that  bkjfed 
Time,  my  LORD  and  my  GOD  I 

Sunday,  May  4.  Preached  by  feven  in  the  Morning  irt 
the  Meeting-Houfe. — Went  to  the  EngUjh  Church  twice,  ^ 
and  heard  two  legal  Sermons,  tho*  not  quite  fo  bad  as 
thofe  I  Jieard  when  here  lafl:.  Preached  in  the  Evening 
to  about  8coo  in  the  Field,  and  had  a  comfortable  Evi- 
dence that  the  Lord  was  amongil  us.     I  had  much  of 

tht, 


at  SrRA7rON-ISLAND,&c,     33 

the  Divine  Prefence  in  my  own  Soul,  tho'  I  have  not 
felt  fuch  continual  Enlarg;ement  of  Heart,  as  when  I  was 
here  before.  I  believe,  it  is  becaufe  mine  Adverfaries 
have  been  more  filent,  and  have  not  fo  openly  oppofed 
the  Truths  of  God,  the'  their  fecret  Enmity  is  as  great, 
na)',  I  believe,  greater  than  ever. — To  fpeak  againft  the 
favourite  Writings  cf  Archbifhop  TiHotfofi^  and  the  Au- 
thor of  the  Whole  Duty  of  Man^  grieves  them  to  the 
Heart  ;  and  yet  Fear  of  the  People  reftrains  their  Fury 
for  the  prefent.  By  and  by,  the  Number  of  our  Lord's 
Difciples  will  be  gathered  in,  and  then  they  muft  be 
permitted  to  bruife  our  Heel.  —  LORD,  prepare  me^ 
LORD ,  Jlrength 671  me  againji  a  Suffering  Titne.  Thouy 
Son  of  GOD,  take  me  by  the  Hand,  and  then  I  care  not^ 
if  I  a?n  throiun  into  a  fiery  Furnace^  or  caji  into  a  Den 
ef  devouring  Lions. 

Give  ?ne  thy  Strength,   O  GOD  of  Pozv'rj 

Then  let,  or  Men  or  Fiends  ajfail  : 
Strong  in  thy  Strength,  Tllftand  a  Toid'r 

Impregnable  to  Earth  or  Hell, 

After  Evening  Sermon,  Numbers  came  to  me,  giving 
God  Thanks  for  what  they  had  heard.  They  were 
defirousof  my  Return  amongft  them  again,  and  brought 
feverai  large  Contributions  for  my  poor  Orphans.  Elef- 
fed  be  God  !  by  public  Collections  and  private  Dona- 
tions, I  have  received  upwards  of  300  /.  fmce  I  came 
hither  j  and  I  doubt  not  but  my  dear  Lord  will'always 
provide  for  my  little  Ones. — Oh  what  a  bleffed  Thing  is 
it  to  live  upon  GOD  I  1  believe  Elijah  never  lived  m>ore 
comfortably  than  when  fed  by  the  Ravens. — LORD,  in- 
creafc  my  Faith  !  and  accept  of  my  poor  Thanks  for  what 
thou  hajl  done  for  me  and  thy  People,  during  my  fjort 
Stay  here.     Amen,  LORD  JESUS,  Amen  I 

Strattofi-I/la-nd,  Freehold  and  Atnboy, 

Monday,  May  ^,  Prayed  with,  and  parted  in  an  afFeiSlf- 

onate  Manner  from  my  dear  New-York  Friends  lafl  Night. 

About  ten  o'Clock,  took  Boat  with  my  worthy  Hoft  Mr. 

AW^jSnd  fomeothersjand  came  by  Midnight  to  Stratton- 

E  .Iflandy 


3 4         Mr. WniTEFiELD'i  "Journal 

Jjland,  where  wc  were  kindly  received  by  one  of  our 
Lord's  true  Difciples.  Not  long  after  our  coming  a- 
fnore,  the  Wind  blew,  and  the  Weather  grew  very 
tempeftuous,  and  fo  continued  all  the  Morning  ;  but 
God  ftrengthened  my  weak  Body. — About  eleven  I  fct 
out  ;  preached  at  a  Place  appointed  on  the  Ifland,  about 
feven  Miles  diftant,  and  afterwards  haftened  to  Ainhoy^ 
about  twelve  Miles  farther,  and  preached  again  a  little- 
after  fix  in  the  Evening, — I  fent  to  the  Minifter  of  the 
Place  for  the  Ufe  of  his  Pulpit  :  But  he  was  very 
angry,  and  faid  he  wondered  at  my  Aflurance  in  ask- 
ing fuch  a  Thing. — It  being  fuch  rainy  Weather,  only 
a  few  People  came,  and  I  did  not  feel  much  Power  in 
preaching  to  them. — After  Sermon,  my  Friends  advifed 
me  to  flay  at  Arnhoy  all  Night  :  But  my  dear  Brother 
and  Fellow- Labourer  Mr.  JVilUam  Tennant  coming  to 
fetch  me,  I  palled  over  a  Ferry  with  him  and  his  Bro- 
ther Gilbert y  who  alfo  came  to  Amhoy  to  meet  me.  With 
them  I  fct  out  for  Freehold^  twenty  Miles  from  Amhoy^ 
the  Place  where  God  has  more  immediately  called  Mr. 
WilUayn  Tennant. — Oh  how  fweetly  did  the  Time  glide 
on,  and  our  Hearts  burn  within  us  when  we  opened  the 
Scriptures,  and  communicated  our  Experiences  to  each 
other.  Our  Lord  was  with  us.  as  with  the  two  Dif- 
ciples going  to  Emaus. —  About  Midnight  we  reached 
Freehold  j  and  about  two  in  the  Morning  retired  to  Reft. 
My  Body  was  weak,  but  my  Soul  much  comforted  ; 
and  I  think  I  fleep  with  double  Satisfaction  when  lying 
in  a  good  Man's  Houfe. — For  the  Angels  of  the  Lord 
encamp  about  the  Dwellings  of  the  Righteous. — Oh  that 
we  may  be  like  thetriy  and  be  unwearied  in  admini/iring 
to  and  tvatehing  over  thofe  who  are  Heirs  of  everlajiing 
Salvation. 

Freehold^    Amboy  and  Burlington, 

Tuefdayy  May  6.  Preached  at  Freehold  in  the  Morn^ 
ing  to  about  3000,  and  the  Power  of  God  was  much 
manifeltcd,  and  many,  I  believe,  brought  under  Convidfi- 
ons.  Took  a  little  Refrefhment,  and  went  in  Compa- 
ny with  many  of  God's  Children  to  Allen's  Town.,  a- 
bout  Jixteen  Miles  from  Freehold,     Preached  with  Power 

tg 


at  PHILADELPHIA,        35 

to  about  3000  more,  and  afterwards  reached  Burlington^ 
about  twenty  Adiles  farther,  by  Midnight. — As  I  came  a- 
long,  a  Man  who  had  been  difluaded  from  coming  to 
hear  me,  came  to  me  under  ftrong  Convictions,  and  de- 
iirous  to  follow  me  whitherfoever  I  went.  I  fcarce 
know  a  Day  wherein  I  have  not  had  feveral  apply  to 
me  for  the  fame  Purpofe,  and  under  the  fame  Circum- 
ftances.  It  is  natural  for  Perfons  to  be  defirous  of  being 
with  thofe,  who  have,  under  God,  brought  them  from 
Darknefs  to  Light.  Thus  the  Man  out  of  whom  the  Devil 
had  been  caft,  defired  to  go  with  the  Blefled  Jesus. 
But  our  Lord's  Anfwer  I  find  beft  to  be  given.  *'  Go 
"  home  to  thy  Houfe^  and  tell  what  great  Thing's  the 
"  LORD  hath  done  for  thee."  —  Deareji  Redeemer ^ 
teach  me  in  this,  and  all  other  Refpe^s,  to  follow  thy  per- 
fe6l  unerring  Example,     Amen  and  Amen. 

Brijiol  in   Penfdvania  and  Philadelphia. 

.  Wednefday,  May  7.  Had  a  little  refrelhing  Sleep ; 
crofied  a  Ferry  over  into  Penfthania  Province.  Preach- 
ed to  about  4000  at  BriJloU  and  made  all  poifible  Hafte 
to  Philadelphia,  twenty  Miles  off,  where  I  was  received 
with  great  Joy  and  Satisfaction  by  my  kind  Hoft  Mr. 
B — t,  and  many  other  Friends. — After  difpatching  fome 
private  Affairs,  I  went  and  heard  Mr.  fones  the  Baptift 
Minitter,  who  preached  the  Truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus. t^ 
He  is  the  only  Preacher  that  I  know  of  in  Philadelphia^ 
who  fpeaks  feelingly  and  with  Authority.  ,  The  poor 
People  are  much  refreftied  by  him,  and  Itruft  the  Lord 
will  blefs  him  more  and  more. — Pity,  O  deareji  JE- 
SUS, thy  poor  People,  andfiiffer  them  no  longer  to  he  [c al- 
tered abroad,   as  Sheep  having  no  Shepherds  ! 

PHILADELPHIA. 

Thurfday,  May  8.  Had,  what  my  Body  much  want- 
ed, a  thorough  Night's  Repofe ;  was  much  refrefhed  in 
Spirit,  and  was  called  up  very  early  in  the  Morning,  as 
I  am  always,  to  fpeak  to  poor  Souls  under  Convictions. 
The  firft,  I  think,  was  an  Indian  Trader,  whom  God 
was  pleafed  to  bring  home  by  r.iy  preaching  when  here 
E  %  laft. 


3  6  Mr.  W  H I T  E  F I E  L  D'i  Journal 

]aft.  The  Account  he  gave  of  God's  Dealings  with 
him  Wiisvery  fatisfaiflory. — He  isjuftcome  from  the  In- 
diati  Nation,  where  he  has  been  praying  with  and 
exhorting  all  he  met,  that  were  willnig  to  hear : 
Some  of  the  India?is  he  had  Hopes  of  :  But  his  Fel- 
low-Traders endeavoured  to  prejudice  them  againlt 
him.  However,  by  my  Advice,  he  propofes  vifit- 
ing  them  again  at  the  Fall  :  And  I  humbly  hope  the 
Lord  will  open  a  Poor  amongft  the  poor  Heathen.— 
The  Converfion  of  one  of  their  Traders  I  take  to  be 
one  great  Step  towards  it. — LORD,  carry  on  the  Work 
begun.  Fulfil  thy  ancient  Projnifcs,  and  let  thy  Son  have 
the  Heathen  for  his  Inheritance,  and  the  utmo/i  Parts  of 
the  Earth  for  his  Poffejfwi.  Come,  LORD  JESUS, 
come  quickly  ! 

Converfed  alfo  with  a  poor  Negroe  Woman,  who  has 
been  vilited  in  a  very  remarkable  Manner.  God  was 
pleafed  to  convert  her  by  my  Preaching  the  laft  Fall ;  but 
being  under  Dejections  on  Sunday  Morning,  (lie  prayed 
that  Salvation  might  come  to  her  Heart,  and  that  the 
Lord  would  be  plcafcd  to  manifell  himfelf  to  her  Soul 
that  Day.  Whilft  {he  was  at  Meeting,  hearing  one  Mr. 
M — n,  a  Baptift  Preacher,  v.'hom  the  Lord  has  been 
pleafed  lately  to  fend  forth,  the  Word  came  with  fuch 
Power  upon  her  Heart,  that  at  laft  flic  was  obliged  to  cry 
out;  and  fuch  a  great  Concern  alfo  fell  upon  many  in  the 
Congregation,  that  feveral  betook  themfclves  to  fecret 
Prayer.  The  Minifter  ftop'd,  and  feveral  perfuaded  her 
to  hold  her  Peace  :  But  the  Glory  of  the  Lord  fhone  fo 
brightly  round  about  her,  that  fhe  could  not  help  praifing 
aid  bleffir.g  God,  and  telling  how  God  was  revealing 
Jiimfelf  to  her  Soul.  After  fume  'Fime,  fne  was  taken 
out  of  the  Meeting- Houfe^  but  {he  fell  upon  her  Knees, 
praifing  and  blefTmg  God.  She  continued  in  an  Agony 
f>r  fome  confiderable  Time ;  and  afterwards  came  in 
and  heard  the  Remainder  of  tlie  Sermon. — Many  llnce 
this,  have  called  her  mad,  and  faid  Ihe  was  full  of 
new  Wine :  But  the  Account  fhe  gave  me  was  rational 
and  folid,  and  I  believe  in  that  Hc-ur  the  Lord  Jesus 
took  a  great  Po{le{rion  of  her  Soul.  Such  Cafes  indeed 
have  not  been  very  common  :  But  when  an  extraordi- 
nary Work   is  carrying   on,    God  generally  manifefls 

him- 


at  PENSILVANIA.         37 

himfelf  to  fome  Souls  in  this  extraordinary  Manner. 
And  I  doubt  not,  but  when  the  poor  Negroes  are  to  be 
called,  God  will  highly  favour  them,  to  wipe  off  their 
Reproach,  and  to  ftiew  that  he  is  tw  RefpeSfer  of  Per- 
fons,  but  that  whofoever  heUeveth  in  hifn  J})all  be  faved. 

Preached  in  the  Morning  about  eleven  to  6  or  7000 
People.  Had  great  Freedoin  of  Spirit,  and  cleared  my- 
felf  trom  fome  Afperfions  that  had  been  ca(l  upon  my 
Dcdlrine,  as  tho'  it  tended  to  Antimmianifm.  But  I 
abhor  the  Thoughts  of  it  ;  and  whofoever  entertains  the 
Doctrines  of  Free-Grace  in  an  honeft  Heart,  will  find, 
they  will  in  their  own  Nature  caufc  him  to  be  fruitful  in 
every  good  Word  and  Work. — Many  exprefTed  how  the 
Power  of  God  was  amongft  them  ;  and  I  believe  God 
has  much  People  in  Philadelphia  City.  The  Congre- 
gations are  very  large  and  ferious,  and  I  have  fcarce 
preached  this  Time  amongft  them  but  I  have  feen  a  ftir- 
ing  amongft  the  dry  Bones. — At  five  in  the  Evening  I 
preached  again  with  the  like  Power,  but  rather  to  a  lar- 
ger Audience  ;  and  after  Sermon  rode  ten  Miles  to  a 
Friend's  Houfe,  that  I  might  be  in  readinefj  to  preach 
according  to  Appointment  the  next  Morning. — How  dif- 
ferently am  I  treated  from  my  Mafter  ?  He  taught  the 
People  by  Day,  and  abode  all  Night  upon  the  Mount 
of  Olives.  He  had  not  where  to  lay  his  Head  :  But  go 
where  I  will,  I  find  People  with  great  Gladnefs  receiv- 
ing me  into  their  Houfes. —  LORD^  I  lack  for  nothing  : 
O  prepare  me  for  a  Suffering  Time,  and  make  Tjie  willing, 
naked  J  to  follow  a  naked   CHRIST.     Amen.     Amen, 

Pennypack  and  Philadelphia. 

Friday,  May  9.  Preached  at  Pennypack,  about  three 
Miles  Diftancc  from  the  Houfe  where  I  Jay,  to  about 
2000  People.  Eat  a  little  Dinner.  Came  to  Philadel- 
phia about  two  in  the  Afternoon. — Agreed  with  Perfons 
to  build  my  Negroe  Schools  on  the  Land  which  I  have 
lately  purchafed  ;  preached  in  the  Evening  with  great 
Freedom  and  Power  ;  and  afterwards  began  a  Society  of 
young  A-len,  many  of  whom  I  truft  will  prove  good  Sol- 
diers of  Jesus  Christ.  Jmen^  LORD  JESUS^ 
Anion  and  Amen  ! 

Saturday^ 


38         M-.  Whitefield'j  y<?/^r//<z/ 

Saturday^  May  10.  Tho'  God  has  (hewn  me  great 
Things  already  in  this  Place,  yet  to  To-day  I  have  (ccn 
greater.  I  preached  twice  with  Power,  and  to  larger 
Congregations  than  ever  :  And  in  the  Evening  went  to 
fettle  a  Society  of  young  Women,  who  I  hope  will  prove 
wife  Virgins. — As  foon  as  I  entered  the  Room,  and  heard 
them  Tinging,  my  Soul  was  uncommonly  delighted. 
When  the  Hymn  was  over,  I  defired  to  pray  before  I  be- 
gan to  converfe  :  But,  contrary  to  my  Expedlations,  my 
Soul  was  fo  carried  out  that  I  had  not  Time  to  talk  at  all. 
A  wonderful  Power  was  in  the  Room,  and  with  one  Ac- 
cord, they  began  to  cry  out  and  weep  moft  bitterly  for 
the  Space  of  half  an  Hour.  They  feemed  to  be  under  the 
ilrongeft  Convictions,  and  did  indeed  feek  Jesus  forrow- 
iing.  Their  Cries  might  be  heard  a  great  Way  off.- 
When  1  had  done,  I  thought  proper  to  leave  them  at  their 
Devotions.  They  continued  in  Prayer  (as  I  was  inform- 
ed by  one  of  them  afterwards)  for  above  an  Hour,  con- 
feffing  their  moft  fecret  Faults :  And  at  length  the  Ago- 
nies of  fome  were  fo  ftroiig,  that  five  of  them  feemed  af- 
fected as  thofe  that  are  in  Fits.— The  prefent  Captain  of 
cur  Sloop  going  near  the  Water-fide,  was  called  into  a 
Company  almoft  in  the  fame  Circumftances  ;  and  at 
Midnight  I  was  defired  to  come  to  one  who  was  in  ftrong 
Agonies  of  Body  and  Mind,  but  felt  fomewbat  of  Joy 
and  Peace,  after  I  had  prayed  with  her  feveral  Times. 
JHer  Cafe  put  me  in  Mind  of  the  young  Man  whom  the 
Devil  tore,  when  he  was  coming  to  Jesus.     Some  fuch- 

'  like  bodily  Agonies,  I  believe,  are  from  the  Devil ;  and 
now  the  Work  of  God  is  going  on,  he  will,  no  doubt, 
endeavour  by  thefe  to  bring  an  evil  Report  upon  k.-^Buty 
O  LORD,  fa}-  thy  Mercy's  Sake,  rebuke  him  ;  and  tho* 
he  moy  he  permitted  to  bite  thy  Peoples  Heel,  fulfil  thy 
Promife,  and  let    the  Seed  of  the  Woaian  bruife  his  ac- 

eurfcd  Head.     Amen.     Atnen  ! 

Sunday,  A<lay  11.  Preached  to  about  15,000  People 
in  the  Morning,  and  obferved  a  great  Melting  to  follow 
the  Word.  Went  twice  to  Church,  and  heard  myfelf 
tasked  by  the  CommifTary,  who  preached  from  thefe 
Words ;  /  bear  them  Record^  they  have  a  Zeal  of  GOD, 


ct  PHILADELPHIA,        39 

hit  not  according  to  Knotvledge.  I  could  have  wiflied  he 
had  confidered  the  next  Words  :  For  they  being  ignorant 
of  GOD's  Rightcoiifnefsy  and  going  about  to  ejiablijh 
their  own  Righteojifnefs,  have  not  fiibmitted  themfelves  un^ 
to  the  Righteoiffnefs  of  GOD.  Had  he  confidered  thefe 
Words.  I  might  jullly  have  faid,  Speaketh  Mr.  Com- 
miffary  of  this  falfe  Zeal  in  Reference  to  himfelf,  or  of 
Come  other  Man  ?  In  the  Afternoon,  the  Tenth  of  the 
Romans,  out  of  which  his  Text  was  taken,  was  appoint- 
ed for  the  Leflbn ;  and  had  he  not  been  more  perverfe 
than  Balaam^  it  mufi;  have  retrained  the  Madnefs  of  this 
falfe  Prophet.  But  he  exclaimed  loudly  againft  me  in  the 
Pulpit,  and,  as  I  foon  found,  obliged  many  of  his  Hear- 
ers to  do  what  they  were  before  inclined  to,  viz.  refolve 
to  leave  him  entirely.  I  bear  him  Record,  that  Experi- 
ence will  foon  convince  him,  that  whatever  mine  be,  his 
own  Zeal  is  by  no  means  according  to  Knowledge.  Af- 
ter he  had  done,  I  preached  my  Farewell  Sermon  to  I  be- 
lieve very  near  20,000  Hearers. — As  the  Commiflary's 
Sermon  was  chiefly  full  only  of  perfonal  Refledions,  .1 
thought  it  not  proper  to  render  Railing  for  Railing.  How- 
ever, I  thought  it  my  Duty,  in  an  efpecial  Manner  to 
recommend  MelTrs.  Tennants  and  their  Affociates,  being 
moft  worthy  Preachers  of  our  dear  Lord  Jesus.  One 
Paffage  out  of  the  fecond  Lefibn  for  the  Morning,  much 
affeded  me.  And  the  LORD  had  CompaJJion  on  ths 
Midtitude,  bccaufe  they  were '  fcattcrcd^  as  Sheep  having 
no  Shepherd.  I  then  reminded  them  of  our  Lord's 
Com  mand,  Pray  ye  therefore  the  L  ORD  of  the  Harvefi^ 
that  he  may  fend  out  Labourers  into  his  Harveji  :  For  tho* 
the  Harvefi  is  fo  greats  the  Labourers  are  very  feiu.  The 
poor  People  were  much  concerned  at  ray  bidding  them 
Farewell.  And  after  I  had  taken  my  Leave,  oh  how 
many  came  to  my  Lodgings,  forrowing  moft  of  all  that 
they  were  likely  to  fee  my  Face  no  more  for  a  long  Sea- 
fon. — I  believe  near  50  Negroes  came  to  give  me  Thanks, 
under  God,  for  what  had  been  done  for  their  Souls. 
Oh  how  heartily  did  thofe  poor  Creatures  throw  in  their 
Mites  for  my  poor  Orphans ! — Some  of  them  have  been 
efFedually  wrought  upon,  and  in  an  uncommon  Manner. 
Many  of  them  have  now  begun  to  ^earn  to  read. — And 
one  that  was  free,  faid  ihe  would  give  me  her  two  Chil- 
dren, 


40         Mr,  Wh  I T  E  F I E  L  D  'i  Journdl 

dren,  whenever    I   fettle  my  School, — I  believe  Mafters 
and  MidrcfTes  will  fliortly  fee,   that  Chiiftianity  will  not 
make    their    Negroes    worfe    Slaves. — I    intended,    had 
Time  permitted,  to  have  fettled   a    Society  for    Negroe 
Men  and  Negroe  Women.     But    that  muft  be  deferred 
till  it  fliall  pleafe  God  to  bring  me  to  Philadelphia  2Lgz.\n. 
I  have  been  much  drawn  out  in   Prayer  for  them,  and 
have  (^an    them   exceedingly   wrought  upon    under  the 
•Word  preached. — I  cannot  wellexprefs  how  many  others 
of  all  Sorts  came  to  give  me  a  laft   Farewell.     And  in- 
deed I  never  yet  faw  a  more  general  Awakening  in  any 
Place.     Religion  is  all  the  Talk  ;  and  I  think  I  can  fay, 
the  Lord  Jesus  hath  gotten  himfelfthe  Victory  in  ma- 
ny Hearts. — I  have  fcarce  had  Time  to  eat  Bread  from 
Morning  till  Evening  ;   fome  one  or   other  was  generally 
applying  to  me  under  deep  Soul-Concern,  and  others  con- 
tinually prefling   upon  me  to  baptize  their   little  Infants. 
I  did  comply  with  as  many  as  I  could  ;  but  I  v/as  obliged 
fometimes  ro  fay.  The  Lord  fent  me   not  to  baptize, 
but  to  preach  the  Gofpel. — Many  of  the  Quakers  have 
been  moft  powerfully  convinced  of  the  Righteoufnefs  of 
Jesus  Christ,   and  openly  profefs  the  I'ruth   as  it  is 
in  Jesus  ;   for  which  I  believe  they  will  iiiortly  be  thruft 
out  ot  their  Synagogues.     Some  of  their  Head-Men  are 
zealous  againfi  me,  and  are  much  afraid  their  Founda- 
tion will  be  fadly  {haken.     Great  Numbers  of  the  Inha- 
bitants would   have   built  me  immediately  a  very  large 
Church,   if  I  would  have  confented  :  But  the  Lord,  I 
am   perfuaded,  would  have  his  Gofpel   preached    in  the 
Fields  ;  and  building  a  Church  would,  I  fear,  infeniibly 
lead  the  People  into  Bigotry,  and  make   them  place  the 
Church  agyin,  as  they  have  done  for  a  long  Tmie,  in  the 
Church-Walls.      For  thefe  Reafons  I  declined  it  ;    tho' 
notwithftanding  I  believe  they  will  build  fome  Place  or 
another. — Wliat  I  moftly  fear,  now  there  is  fuch  a  gene- 
ral Awakening,  People  will  not   know  where  to  go   for 
proper  Food  (for  they  will  no  longer  ta!:e  up  with  Husks", 
as  they  have  done)  and  thereby  fall  into  different  Seds  and 
Parties.— LOiiJi)  JESUS,  look  upon  them,  let  not  Satan 
divide  'them  again  ;   but  raife  them   up  Pajiors  after  thy 
own  Hearty  for  thy   infinite  Mercfs  Sake.     Amen   and 
Jrnen  /—With  preaching,  and  praying,  and  adviftng,  I 

was 


at    DERBT,  &c,  41 

was  truly  weary  by  eight  at  Night.  However,  I  went 
and  baptized  two  Children  ;  took  my  Leave  of  both  the 
Societies  ;  and  I  had  not  pray'd  long  in  the  Women's  So- 
ciety, but  two  of  them  fell  down  again  into  violent  Fits, 
fo  that  I  was  obliged  to  leave  them. — At  my  Return 
home  I  fupped  with  fome  Chriftian  Friends,  and  went  to 
Bed,  aftonifhed  at,  and  defirous  to  be  humbly  thankful 
for  the  great  Things  the  Lord  has  done  for  me  at  Phi- 
ladelphia.—Bleffed  be  the  LORD  GOD  of  Ifrael,  for 
he  hath  wonderfully  njifited  this  People^  and  raifed  up  for 
them  a  Means  of  Salvation  from  whence  it  was  leajl  ex^ 
pefied.     Oh  Grace,    Grace  ! 

Derby,  Chefier  and  Willingtown. 

Monday,  May   12.  Rofe  very   early  to   anfwer  thofe 
who  came  for   private    Advice, — Vifited   three  Perfons, 
one  of  whom  was  under  fuch  deep  Convidions,  that  fhe 
had  taken  fcarce  any  Thing  to  eat  for  near  a  Fortnight. 
Another  had  a  Profpeft  of  Hell  fet  before  her  laft  Night 
in  the  moft  terrifying  Colours  ;  but  before  the  Morning 
received  Comfort. — When  I  came  to  my  Lodgings,  my 
Friends  were  waiting  to  accompany  me   on   Horfeback, 
and  great  Numbers  of  the  common  People  were  crowd- 
ing about  the  Door.     About   nine  I  left  Philadelphia; 
and  when  I  came  to  the  Ferry,    was  told.  People  had 
been  croffing  over  as  fait  as  two  Boats  could  carry  them, 
ever  fmce  three   in  the  Morning. — After  we  had  waited 
fome  Time,  I  and  my  Friends  got  over  and  preached  at 
Derby,  {gmqw    Miles  from   Philadelphia,  to  about  4000 
Hearers. — Sweetly  did  the  Lord  affift  me  in  fpeaking  to 
them  ;  and  I  believe  many  of  the  Hearers   Hearts  were 
ready  to   break,  for  they  wept    much. — After  Sermon, 
and  eating  a  little  Food,  I  took  Leave  of  many  :    Then 
preached  at  Chefier,  about  nine  Miles  off,  to  about  2000, 
and  colledled  there  and  at  Derby  upwards  of  L.  40  for 
my  Orphans.     Here  alfo  I   parted   with  more  Friends, 
but  feveral  went  with  me  after  Sermon  to   IVillingtown, 
fifteen  Miles  from  Chejler.     We  got  in  about  eleven  at 
Night.     My    Body   was   fomevvhat   weak :    But  God 
ftrengthened  me  to  pray,-  fing  Pfalms  with,  and  exhort  a 
Room  full  of  People  for  about  an  Hour,  and  then  I  lay 
F  af 


4 2         Mr. Whitefield'j  Journal 

at  a  Q^iaker's  Houfe,  wlx)  I  believe  was  a  Chriftian  irt- 
deed,  and,  as  I  obfervcd  before,  could  fay  Shibboleth.-— 
Oh  thtJt  all  of  the  like  Denominatiofi  were  like-minded. 

WilUngtown  and  White-Clay  Creek. 

Tuefday,  May  13.  Preached  at  TVilUngtown  in  the 
Morning  to  about  5000  :  And  at  White- Clay  Creek^  a- 
bout  ten  Miles  diftant,  in  the  Evening,  to  about  30CO. 
A  great  Prefenceof  God  was  in  both  Places,  cfpecially 
at  White-Clay  Creek ^  a  Place  under  the  Care  of  Mr.  Wil- 
liam Tennant.  The  Word,'  I  believe,  was  both  like  a 
Fire  and  a  Hammer  ;  for  many  were  exceedingly  melt- 
ed, and  one  cried  out  moft  bitterly,  as  in  great  Agonies 
of  Soul.  At  both  Places  we  colleded  about  L.  24  for 
the  Orphan-Hoiife^  and  the  People  were  very  follicitous 
for  me  to  bring  our  Sloop  up  their  Creek,  the  next  Time 
I  came,  that  they  might  put  in  Provifions. — Never  did  I 
lee  a  more  plentiful  Country  than  Penfilvania.  I  have 
ften  but  very  few  poor  Objects  fmce  my  Arrival.  Eve- 
ry one  alriiofl  enjoys  Peace  and  Plenty.  The  Rich  do 
not  fwaliow  up  the  Poor,  as  in  other  Provinces  ;  but 
there  feems  tt>  be  a  proper  Balance. — After  Sermon  I  rode 
towards  Nottijigham  with  Mr.  Tennant^  Mr,  Craghcad 
and  Mr.  Blair^  all  worthy  Minifters  of  the  dear  Lord 
Jesus.  The  lart,  efpecially,  lias  been  remarkably  own- 
ed of  God,  and  for  that  has  been  defpifed  by  his  Reve- 
rend, Pharifaical,  Letter-learned  Brethren.  Many  others 
belonging  to  Philadelphia  accompanied  us,  and  we  rode 
through  the  Woods,  moft  fweetly  fmging  and  praifmg 
God.  We  were  all  rejoiced  to  fee  our  dear  Lord's 
Kingdom  come  with  fuch  vifible  Power,  and  endeavour- 
ed to  ftrengthen  one  another  againft  a  Suffering  Time 
{hi  uld  come.  May  the  great  Shepherd  7nake  us  willing^ 
ivJ  en  called  to  it,  to  lay  doivn  our  Lives  for  his  Sheep, 
/.men.     Amen ! 

NCrriNGHAM. 


/, 


Wedncfday^    May    14.     Got    to    a    Quaker's    Houfe^ 

which  lay  in  our  Way  to  Nottingham  about   Midnight, 

and  met  with  an  hofpitable  Reception.     Received  frefh 

2  Power 


at  NOTTINGHAM.  43 

Power  from  above  in  the  Morning,  and  preached   both 
Morning   and  Evening  at  Nottingham^    but   with  fuch 
Demonftration  of  the  Spirit,  and  fuch  a  wonderful  Mov- 
ing amongft  the  Hearers,  as  few  ever  faw  before. — I  vi^as 
invited  thither  in  the  ftrongeft  Terms  by  fome  of  the 
Inhabitants,  who  had  a  good  Work  begun  amongft  them, 
fome  time  ago,  by  the  Miniftry  of  Mr.  Bla'ir^  Meflrs. 
Tennanis  and  Mr.  Crofs,  the  laft  of  which  had  been  de- 
nied the  Ufe  of  the  Pulpit  by  one  of   his  own  Brethren, 
and  was  obliged  to   preach  in    the  Woods,  where  the 
Lord  manifefted  forth  his  Glory,  and  caufed  many  to 
cry  out.  What  Jhallwe  do  to  be  faved  ?     It  furprized  me 
to  fee  fuch  a  great   Multitude   gathered   together,  at  fa 
fhort  a  Warning,  and  in  fuch  a  Defart  Place.     I  believv. 
there  were  near  12,000  Hearers.     I  had  not  fpoke  long, 
but  I  perceived  Numbers  melting.     As  I  proceeded,  the 
Power  increafed,  till  at  laft,  both  in  the   Morning  and 
Afternoon,  Thoufands  cried  out,    fo  that  they  almoft 
drowned  my  Voice.     Never  before  did  I  fee  a  more  glo- 
rious Sight  !     Oh  what  ftrong  Cryings  and  Tears  were 
fhed  and  poured  forth  after  the  dear  Lord  Jesus. — 
Some  fainted  ;  and  when  they  had  got  a  little  Strength, 
they  would  hear  and  faint  again.     Others  cried  out  in  a 
Manner,  almoft,  as  if  they  were  in  the  ftiarpeft  Agonies 
of  Death !    1  think  I  never  was  myfelf  filled  with  greater 
Power.     Oh  what  Thoughts   and  Words  did  God  put 
into  my  Heart !     And  after  I  had  finifhed  my  laft  Dif- 
courfe,  I  was  fo  pierced,   as  it  were,    and  overpowered 
with  God's  Love,  that  fome  thought  (I  believe)  that  I 
was  about  to  give  up  the  Ghoft. — Oh  how  fweetly  did  I 
he  at  the  Feet  of  my  Jesus  !    With  what  Power  did  a 
Senfe  of  his  All-conftraining,  Free  and  Everlafting  Love 
flow  in  upon  my  Soul !     It  almoft  took  away  my  Life. 
However,  at  length  I  revived,  and  having  taken  a  little 
Meat,   was  ftrengthened  to  go  with   my  Brother   Blair, 
Tennant^    and   fome  other   Friends  to    Brother  Blair^s 
Houfe,  about  twenty  Miles  from  Nottingham.     In  the 
Way  we  refreftied    our  Souls  by  fmging  Pfalms    and 
Hymns.     We  got  to  our  Journey's  End  about  Midnight, 
where,    after  we  had   taken  a   little  Food,  and  recomv 
mended  ourfelves  to  God  by  Prayer,  we  went   to  Reft, 
F  ?  and. 


44  ^^«  Wh  I  t  e  f  I  e  l  d*j  Journal 

and  ficpt,  I  believe,  in  the  Arms  of  our  dear  Lord  Je- 
sus.— Oh  LORD,  was  ever  Love  like  thine  ! 

Fogs  Mannor. 

Thurfday^  May  15.  Preached  at  Fog's  Mannor^  a- 
bout  three  Miles  from  Mr.  Blair's  Houfe ;  where  I  was 
earneftly  invited  to  come,  by  him.  And  here  alfo  the 
Lord  was  pleafed  to  caufe  much  of  his  Glory  to  pafs 
before  us.  The  Congregation  was  about  as  large  as  that 
Yefterday  at  Nottingham.  As  great,  if  not  a  greater 
Commotion  was  in  the  Hearts  of  the  People.  Look 
-where  I  would,  moft  were  drowned  in  Tears.  The 
Word  was  fharper  than  a  two-edged  Sword,  and  their 
bitter  Cries  and  Groans  were  enough  to  pierce  the  hard- 
eft  Heart.  Oh  what  different  Vifages  were  then  to  be 
feen  ?  Some  were  Itruck  pale  as  Death,  others  wrings 
ing  their  Hands,  others  lying  on  the  Ground,  others 
fmking  into  the  Arms  of  their  Friends,  and  moft  lifting 
up  their  Eyes  towards  Heaven,  and  crying  out  to  God  ! 
I  could  think  of  nothing,  when  I  looked  upon  them,  fo 
much  as  the  Great  Day. — They  Teemed  like  Perfons 
awakened  by  the  laft  Trump,  and  coming  out  of  their 
Graves  to  Judgment.  One  would  imagine,  none  but  a 
Devil  incarnate  could  have  withftood  the  Power,  or  a- 
void  crying  out,  Surely  GOD  is  in  this  Place  :  And 
yet  one  Mr.  El—fon,  a  Diflenting  Minifter,  a  virulent 
OppoferofMr.  Tennant  and  his  Brethren,  after  Sermon 
was  over,  whilft  Thoufands  were  under  the  deepeft  DI- 
ftrefs  of  Soul,  came  defiring  to  have  a  public  Difputation ; 
I  told  him  I  was  going  to  Neijocajile,  and  that  the  Place 
•we  were  now  in  was  not  proper  to  difpute  in.  But 
he  thinking  that  was  only  to  evade  the  Trial,  I  de- 
fned  him  to  bc^in,  and  I  would  aufu-er  fuch  Qiieftions 
as  he  fhould  propofe.  He  then  charged  me  with  faying. 
That  fuch  as  had  only  a  I-^aith  of  Adherence,  were  in  a 
damnable  Condition.  1  anfwcred,  fuch  a  Thing  never" 
entered  my  Thoughts.  I  only  faid,  a  Faith  of  Adhe- 
rence was  not  to  be  refted  in  :  But  that  all  ftiould  ask  for, 
and  labour  after  a  full  Alfurance  of  Faith.  He  then 
brought  a  Paflage  out  oi  Ifulah,  Chap.  1.  v.  10.  to  prove 
<J)at  a  Perfon  might  be  in  Christ,  and  vj:  rot  know  it. 


at  FOG'S  MAN  NOR.  45 

I  told  him,  if  he  was  a  Spiritual  Perfcn,  he  would  have 
known,  there  was  a  Time  when  God  withdraws  his 
fenfible  Prefence  from  a  Believer's  Soul,  and  yet  that 
Soul  may  even  then  be  kept  from  doubting  of  his  Intereft 
in  Christ.  He  was  about  to  quote  fome  other  Paflage 
of  Scripture  :  But  by  this  Time  the  People  were  exafpe- 
rated  at  his  Ill-treatment  of  me;  and  one  cried  out  in  Hafte, 
that  he  would  take  Mr.  El—fon  out  of  the  Place  :  For 
this  I  rebuked  him  Iharply,  faying,  that  was  not  the  Spiiic 
of  Christ;  and  at  the  fame  Time  blamed  Mr,  El—fon 
for  coming  at  fuch  an  improper  Time  to  difpute,  when 
he  faw  the  Power  of  God  fo  vifibly  amongft  us.  I  alfo 
-told  him,  that  I  believed  he  was  an  Enemy  to  God  : 
But  if  he  had  any  Objedtions  to  make,  I  would  anfwer 
them  as  I  rode  to  Newcaftle^  or  in  a  Letter,  if  he  would 
fend  his  Objedlions  to  me.  Upon  this,  he  feemed  fome- 
what  fenfible  of  his  Fault,  and  faid  he  thought  it  was 
beft  to  withdraw. — The  poor  convided  Souls  hung  fo 
upon  me,  that  with  great  Difficulty  I  got  upon  a  Horfe ; 
and  after  I  had  given  them  a  Word  of  Exhortation,  to 
anfwer  thofe  that  oppofed  themfelves,  with  Meeknefs 
and  Fear,  I  rode  to  a  Friend's  Houfe,  who  had  invited 
me  to  Dinner,  where  we  all  rejoiced  to  find  what  a  Fool 
the  Devil  and  his  Servants  proved  themfelves  to  be.  For 
Mr.  El—fon  did  his  Caufe  fomuch  Hurt  by  this  Adion, 
and  difcoveied  his  Enmity  againft  the  Work  of  God  fo 
evidently,  that  even  his  Friends  now  began  to  fufpeift 
him.  Blefled  be  God  !  I  truft  all  of  his  Stamp  wil! 
Ihew  themfelves  as  clearly  ere  it  be  long  :  For  I  hate  to 
have  Communion  with  ungodly  unconverted  Minifters. 
I  care  not  if  they  all  with  one  Accord  were  fet  in  Oppofi- 
tion  againft  me.  And  I  pray  God  they  may  efFedfually 
be  convinced  and  converted;  otherwife  by  worrying  our 
Lord's  Sheep,  they  will  but  increafe  their  Torment  in 
a  future  State. — Iwould^  fays  the  great  St.  Paul^  of  thofe 
that  troubled  the  Difciples,  that  they  were  even  cut  off" 
(that  is,  at  leaft)  from  all  Communion  with  you. 

After  this  Conteft,  the  Lord  gave  me  frefh  Manifefta- 
tions  of  his  Love.  I  dined  comfortably  with  my  Friends  ; 
rode  at  the  Rate  of  eight  Miles  an  Hour  to  NewcaJIU^ 
about  twenty  four  Miles  irom  Fog's  Mannor-^  preached  to 
about  4000,  and  wrote  fome  Letters;  difpatched  fome  o_ 

the^ 


46        Mr.  WhitefieldV  Journal 

ther  AfFairs,  gave  a  Word  of  Advice,  and  prayed  vi'ith 
fcverai,  who  came  many  Miles  under  violent  Convifti- 
ons,  and  then  went  and  fupped  on  board  our  Sloop  with 
my  Friends.  Here  God  was  again  pleafed  to  fill  me 
with  a  Senfe  of  his  Love.  My  Soul  was  ready  to  burft  ; 
Tears  trickled  plentifully  down  my  Cheeks,  and  I  was 
much  carried  out  in  Behalf  of  thofe  poor  Souls,  whom  I 
had  left  behind  hungering  and  thirfting  after  the  Righte- 
qufnefs  of  Jesus  Christ.  LORD,  for  thy  Mercfs 
Sake,  let  them  be  filled! 

After  Supper,  and  finging  a  Hymn  and  Prayer,  many 
who  have  accompanied  me  ever  fmce  I  left  Philadelphia, 
as  alfo  Meflrs.  Tennant,  Blair,  and  Craghead,  took 
their  final  Leave.  Their  Hearts  were  melted  with  Love 
towards  me :  But  being  much  fatigued  with  Expence  of 
Spirits,  I  could  only  figh  out  my  Heart's  Defire  for  them, 
commend  them  to  God  ;  and  then,  as  foon  as  poflible, 
I  betook  my  felf  to  Reft,  afhamed  that  I  could  be  no 
more  affected  with  a  Senfe  of  the  Bleffings  I  had  received 
on  fhore. — LORD,  whatever  thou  denicjl  ?ne,  deny  nic 
mt  a  thmikful  humble  H^art.  Amen,  LORD  JESUS^ 
Amen  ! 

On  Board  the  Savannah  Sloop, 

^  Friday,  May  16.  Rofe  by  break  of  Day,  parted  with 
two  more  dear  Friends,  and  put  my  Things  and  little 
Farnily  in  order  as  foon  as  I  could.  Was  pleafingly 
furprized  to  fee  the  Variety  arid  Quantity  of  Provifions 
and  Sea-Stores  which  had  been  fent  on  board  by  Phila- 
delphia People.  And  found  that  in  Goods  and  Money  I 
had  received  near  L.  ^00 Sterling. — BleJJedbe  the  LORD 
GOD  o/Ifrael,  who  alone  bringeth  mighty  Things  to  pafs  I 
I  am  now  going  to  make  an  Addition  to  my  Family  of 
Haifa  Dozen  Perfons,  a  Bricklayer,  a  Taylor,  two  Maid- 
fervants,  and  two  little  Girls,  whofe  Father  kept  a  Dan- 
cing-School, Afiembly  and  Concert  Room  in  Philadel- 
phia. Their  Mother,  1  believe,  had  a  Work  of  Grace 
upon  her  Heart,  was  well-bred,  and  concerned  much, 
for  fome  Time,  at  the  Bufinefs  in  which  her  Husband 
was  engaged.  When  laft  at  Philadelphia,  I  did  what  I 
could,  but  no\y  God  opened   Mr.   Seward'^  Heart  to 

relieve 


at  REET>r-ISLAND,        i^j 

Telieve  the  Parents,  I  took  thefe  two  Children,  and 
blefTed  be  God  !  an  End  will  entirely  be  put  to  the  Af- 
fembly,  i^c.  at  leaft  in  that  Houfe. — Many  of  the  young 
Ladies  have  been  much  afFedled  by  the  Word  preached  ; 
and  I  believe  thofe  Entertainments  will  never  be  fo  much 
countenanced  again.  It  is  a  Shame  they  fliould  be  per- 
mitted in  any  Chriftian  Country. — They  enervate 
People's  Minds,  unfit  them  for  Bufinefs,  as  well  as  Reli- 
gion, and  grieve  the  Holy  Spirit  exceedingly.  Wretch- 
ed and  miferable  are  thofe  falfe  JProphets  who  frequent 
fuch  Entertainments  themfelves.  or  any  Way  encourage 
others  fo  to  do.  The  Lord  will  call  them  to  account 
for  it  at  the  laft  Day. — Oh  that  I  could  lament  fny  pajl 
Mifcondua  in  this  Refpe£l  with  Tmrs  of  Blood  ! 

S  a  fur  day  y  May  17.  Both  Yefterday  and  this  Day 
perceived  the  Blessed  Spirit  moving  on  the  Faces  of 
fome  Souls  in  the  Ship.  Felt  much  of  the  Prefence  of 
God  in  my  Heart,  and  had  feveral  Captains  and  Ship- 
Carpenters  (the  Wind  being  contrary)  come  to  hear  me 
pray  and  €xhort. — The  Lord  being  with  me,  I  obferv- 
ed  the  Tears  trickling  down  their  ftern  Faces  plentifully. 
Three  feemed  to  be  under  ftrong  Convi(5lions ;  and  one, 
efpecially,  not  long  fince  remarkably  wicked,  I  have 
great  Hopes  will  be  eiFedually  brought  home. — Grant  it^ 
O  LORD^  for  thy  dear  Son's  Sake.  Amen  and  Amen  ! 

On  Board  Ship,  and  Reedy  IJland. 

Sunday^  May  18.  The  Weather  not  permitting  us  to 
fail,  at  the  People  and  Sailor's  Defire,  I  went  on  fiiore 
and  preached  twice  on  Reedy  IJland,  near  which  our 
Sloop,  and  feveral  other  Ships  came  to  an  Anchor.  Hav- 
ing but  a  few  Hours  Notice,  not  above  200  came  toge- 
ther :  But  there  was  a  fweet  Power  of  the  Lor  d  amongft 
us,  and  it  pleafed  me  to  fee  the  Ships  Companies  halte  ia 
their  Boats  to  hear  the  Sermon.  Many  People  wept  bit- 
terly. And  in  the  Evening  I  returned  to  my  Sloop  with 
much  of  God's  Prefence,  and  was  enabled  to  finifh  my 
Journal  to  this  Day,  not  having  Time  to  write  a  Word 
of  it  before  I  came  on  board  for  a  Fortnight.  Blefled  be 
God  !   our  dear  Lord  Jesus  fulfils  his  Promifes,  and 

his 


48         Mr.  W HIT 'EVi'E'Ln^s  Journal 

his  Blessed  Spirit  brings  all  Things  to  my  Remem- 
brance.— Thanks  be  to  GOD  for  his  unfpeakablc  Gift  ! 

Monday^  May   19.    Was  much  refreflied  To-day  by- 
reading  the  Journal  of  an    Indian   Trader  mentioned  a 
little  before,  and  could  not  but  think  God  would  open  a 
Door  for  preaching  the  Gofpel  among  the  Jlleganian  In- 
dians.    Being  much   prefled  thereto  in    Spirit,   I  wrote 
them  a  Letter,   wherein  1  laid  down  the  Principles  of  our 
Holy  Religio/i,    told  them  the  Promifes  of  the  Gofpe], 
that  had  efpecial  Reference  to  them,  and  cautioned  them 
againft  fuch  Things,  which  I  thought  might  be  an  Hin- 
derance  to  their  embracing  Chriftianity.     The  Head  or 
Chief  of  them    is  well  inclined,    and   the   white  People 
thereabouts  have  heard  of  me,  and  have  gotten  my  Ser- 
mons.— Who  knows  but  God  may  now  begin  to  give 
his  Son  the  Heathen  for  his  Inheritance,  and   the  utter- 
mofl  Parts  of  the  Earth  for  his  PofleiTion.     This  Tra- 
der I  really  believe  is  called  of  GoD,  and  God   never 
fends  any  of  bis  Servants  on  a  needlefs  Errand.     Here- 
after Gofpel-Minifters  may  be  fent  alfo.     But  the  Gx)f- 
pel  muft  be  firft  preached  to  our  baptized  Heathens. — 
When   this  has  been  done,  and   the  Self-righteous  reject 
the  Kingdom  of  God  againft  themfelves,  then,   lo!    we 
turn  to  the  Gentiles. — I  long  to  fee  that  Time  when  the 
Earth  fhall  be  filled  with  the  Knowledge  of  the  Lord, 
as  the    Waters  cover    the  Sea. — Even  fo^  come   LORD 
jfESUS^  co?ne  quickly. 

Wednefday.,  May  21.  Preached  for  thefe  three  Days 
lafl  paft,  once  every  Day  on  Ihore  at  Reedy  IJland^  and 
perceived  the  Congregations  increafed  much  every  Time. 
Felt  much  of  the  Divine  Affiflance,  both  on  fhore  and 
on  board,  and  was  enabled  to  exhort  and  pray  with  great 
Power  to  the  Captains  and  Sailors  that  came  to  our 
Sloop.  One  Captain  and  a  Pilot  were  wonderfully  af- 
fe<5led.  I  find  they  all  had  made  an  Agreement  to  come 
conftantly,  fo  long  as  the  Wind  continued  againit  us. 
But  after  Evening  Sei'mon,  the  Weather  clearing  up, 
and  the  Wind  being  fomewhat  fair;,  we  weighed  Anchor, 
and  went  fome  itw  Miles  towards  the  Bay. — BlefTed  be 
God  for  retarding  us  at  Reedy  Ifland. — Tho'  I  long  to 

fee 


at  LkJVIS^roWN.  49 

fee  my  dear  Flock  and  Family  at  Georgia^  yet  I  rejoice 
in  this  Delay,  becaufe  I  hope  fome  Servaiits  of  God 
have  been  refre{hed,  and  others  brought  into  a  fair  Way 
of  coming  to  Jesus  Christ.  Draw  them,  O  LORD, 
with  the  Cords  of  thy  Love,  and  then  they  cannot  fail  fol- 
lowing after  thee  !  "The  Love  of  CHRIST  is  a  conjlrain- 
ing  Love,  oh  Jhed  it  abroad  into  the  Hearts  of  all  poor 
unbelieving  Sinners  /    Jmen  and  Amen, 

LEWIS^rOWN. 

Friday,  May  23.      Came  this  Morning  to  Old-KiU 
road. — Dropt  Anchor,  the  Wind  being  contrary.  Went 
afliore  at  Leivis-Town,  and  read  Prayers  and  preached  in 
the  Church  to  a  fmall,  and  as  unafFe<5ted  a  Congregation 
as  I  have  fpoke  to  fmce  my  Arrival  in  America.     The 
Minifter  hearing  our  Sloop  was  coming,  ftaid  to  give  me 
the  Meeting.     But  I  quickly  found  he  v/as  one  of  thofe 
who  fubfcribed  to  the  Articles  of  the  Church  of  England 
in  his  own  Senfe.     He  inveighed   bitterly    againft   the 
Doctrines  of  Grace  in  private  j  but  was  feemingly  Itruck 
dumb   after   he   heard   me  in   public.     For  he  did  not 
open  his  Lips  about  the  Dodrines  afterwards.  — Oh  how 
will  Divine  Truths  make  their  own  Way,  when  attend- 
ed by  a  divine  Power  ?     They  will   either   convivl  or 
confound   Gainfayers.     As  for  my  own  Part,  I   am  in 
love  with  them  more  and  more  every  Day. — I  find  few 
befides  carnal,  earthy,  fenfual,  devilifli  Men  oppofe  them. 
And  I  think  the  Church  of  England  is  by  no  Means  be^ 
holden   to  Bifhop  Burnet  for  his  Expofition  on  her  Ar- 
ticles.    He  has  opened  a  Door  for  the  moft  deteftable  E- 
quivocation  ;  and  was  it  poffible  for  the  Compilers  of  our 
Articles    to  rife   again  from  the  Dead,  I  am  perfuaded 
they  would  infifton  their^being  taken  in  the  Grammatical 
Senfe.      They  cannot,  in  my  Opinion,  admit  of  atvvo«. 
fold  Interpretation :     But   how     is  that    once    faithful 
Church  become  an   Harlot?     Her  own  Sons  have  been 
her  Betrayers  j  and  I  fear,  if  God  does  not  fpeedily  pre- 
vent, will  prove  her  Murderers!     Father,  for  thy  Mer- 
cy's Sake,  purify  her  Sons,  the  Clergy,  ayid grant  that  all 
luhofervi  at  her  Altars  may  be  ckathgd  with  the  Righte- 
G  Qufnefi 


^o        Mr.  Wh  I  t  e  f  I  e  l  r>'i  Journal 

Dufnep  of  thy  dear  Son,  and  preach  and  live   according  tS 
the  Faith  as  it  is  in  JESUS  ! 

Saturday^  May  24.  Wrote  fome  Letters  to  England 
by  the  Way  of  Lisbon.  Read  Prayers,  and  preached 
twice  in  the  Church  to  a  much  larger  and  abundantly 
more  affedted  Auditory  than  Yefterday.  Many  People 
flood  without  the  Church  Door,  and  I  was  enabled  to 
fpeak,  efpecially  in  the  Morning,  with  fuch  abundant 
Freedom  and  Power,  that  I  cannot  believe  any  one 
Hearer  could  avoid  being  afFefted  in  fome  Degree  or  other. 
I  was  carried  out  for  a  long  Time,  and  faw  the  Word 
ftrike  the  Hearers  like  fo  many  pointed  Arrows.  It 
came  with  Demonftration  of  the  Spirit  indeed.  Carnal 
Reafoning  could  not  refift  it.  Blefied  be  God  ! — In  the 
Evening  I  retired  and  looked  towards  Georgia  :  But  this 
Text  was  much  prefTed  upon  my  Mind,  IFe  effaycd  to 
go  into  Bythinia,  but  the  Spirit  fuffered  us  not. — LORD, 
J  fubmit.  Thy  JVill  he  done.  I  deftre  not  to  7nove,  till 
that  which  now  letteth  be  taken  out  of  the  Way.  Oh  when 
Jhall  I  learn  to  have  no  other  JVill  but  thine  ! 

Sunday,  May  25 .  Preached  twice  from  a  Balcony  to 
about  2000  People,  the  Church  being  not  capable  of 
holding  them,  la  the  Morning  I  had  not  much  Free- 
dom. But  in  the  Evening,  difcourfmg  on  Abraham's 
Faith,  a  great  many,  and  fome  even  of  the  moft  polite, 
wept  much.  But  alas  !  when  I  came  to  turn  from  the 
Creature  to  the  Creator,  and  to  talk  of  God's  Love,  in 
facrificing  his  only  begotten  Son  Jesl's  Christ,  their 
Tears,  I  obferved,  dried  up.  I  told  them  of  it  j  and 
could  not  but  from  thence  infer  the  dreadful  Depravity  of 
Human  Nature. — Wc  can  weep  at  the  Sufferings  of  a 
Martyr,  a  Man  like  ourfelves ;  but  when  are  we  affccft- 
ed  at  the  Relation  of  the  Sufferings  of  the  Son  of  God  ? 
Monfieur  Pofchal,  I  have  been  informed,  always  wept, 
whenever  he  read  our  dear  Lord's  PaiBon.  And  tho' 
Weeping  be  not  always  a  Sign  of  Grace,  yet  I  think  it  is 
an  Evidence  of  the  Hardncfs  of  our  Hearts,  and  a  Want 
of  a  due  Senfe  of  Sin,  when  we  can  weep  at  any  other 
>  melancholy  Relation,  and  yet  be  unmoved  at  the  Ac- 
count 


on  Board  the  Sloop.  51 

count  of  the  Sufferings  of  a  dying  Sayiour. — The  divine 
Herbert,  modernized  by  my  dear  Brother  Mr.  Charles 
Wejley,  furnifhes  me  with  a  fweet  Prayer  on  this  Ogca- 
iion. 

Bin  is  Jl'ill  fprcadlng  o*er  my  Hearty 

A  Hardnefs  void  of  Love  : 
Let  fuppling  Grace,  to  crofs  her  Art^ 

Drop  gently  from  above  ! 

After  Evening  Service,  thinking  it  Time  to  vifit  my 
little  Family  (in  all  feventecn  Souls)  I  went  on  board, 
and  God  was  with  us  of  a  Truth.  I  prayed  with  and 
exhorted  them.  My  Eyes  gufhed  out  with  Water  ;  my 
Soul  was  full  of  a  Senfe  of  the  Divine  Love,  and  my 
little  Flock  wept  plentifully  too.  I  was  much  carried^ 
out  for  them  and  my  dear  Sttvannah  Friends,  and  had 
lome  Thoughts  that  the  Lord  would  now  fend  me  to 
them.  Whether  that  be  his  good  Pleafure  or  not,  I  defire 
to  be  refigned  and  thankful  for  this  Delay.  It  has  been 
made  very  beneficial  to  many  Souls,  efpecially  to  fomeof 
cur  own  Sloop,  particularly  to  one  moft  profligate  Sinner, 
v/ho  I  truft  will  make  an  eminent  courageous  Saint.— 
I  think  I  have  now  preached  fixty  eight  Times  fince  my 
Arrival  at  Netucajile,  and  have  been  near  forty  Days  on 
Shore.  The  Lord  has  been  much  both  with  me  and 
his  People  ;  and  whether  he  is  pleafed  to  detain  me  longer 
here,  or  permit  me  to  return  to  my  dear  Charge,  I  hope 
his  Name  will  be  glorified,  and  the  Salvation  of  Soyls 
promoted. 

While  in  thefe  Regions  here  below. 

No  other  Good  zvill  I purfue, 
r II  bid  this  World  ofNoife  and  Shew, 

fVith  all  its  fiatt' ring  Snarei,  Adieu  ! 

Tljat  Path  with  humble  Speed  Pllfeek, 
Wherein,  O  LORD,  thy  Footfleps  Jhine  : 

Nor  will  I  hear,  nor  will  Ifpeak, 
Of  any  other  Love  than  thine. 

G  7,  Wednefday^ 


f2         ikfr.WHiTEFiELD'j  Jonmal 
TTBEE-ISLAND. 

Wednefdayy  June  \.  Caft  Anchor  about  Midnight,  at 
Tybee  Ijland^  fifteen 'Miles  from  Savannah,  after  a  ihort 
Paflage  of  nine  Days,  a  Thing  very  extraordinary  at 
this  Time  of  the  Year.  But  our  God  is  a  God  hear- 
ing Prayer. — LORD,  give  me  evermore  to  exercife  Faith 
on  thy  Promifes,  and  then  all  Things  vjhatfoever  t  ask  in 
ihy  dear  Son's  Name,  I  knotv  I  Jhall  receive. 

S  AV  ANN  AH, 

Thurfday,  June  5.  Took  Boat  at  Tybee^  about  one 
in  the  Morning,  and  arrived  at  Savannah  about  eight. 
But  oh  what  afvveet  Meeting  had  I  v/ith  my  dear  Friends. 
What  God  has  prepared  for  me  I  know  not ;  but  furely 
1  cannot  well  expect  a  greater  Happinefs  till  I  embrace 
the  Saints  in  Glory.  When  I  parted,  my  Heart  was 
ready  to  break  with  Sorrow,  but  now  it  almofl  burft 
with  Joy.  All  Things  concurred  to  render  our  Meet- 
ing exceeding  happy. — None  of  my  Letters  had  come  to 
Hand,  fo  that  my  Family  did  not  expert  me  for  a  long 
Seafon.  They  had  alfo  been  informed  that  I  was  caft 
away  ;  fo  that  they  received  me  as  one  rifmg  from  the 
dead.  Oh  how  did  each  in  Turn,  hang  upon  my  Neck, 
Icifs  and  weep  over  me  with  Tears  of  Joy.  And  my 
own  Soul  was  fo  fuJl  of  a  Senfe  of  God's  Love,  when 
I  embraced  one  Friend  in  particular,  that  I  thought  I 
fhould  even  have  expired  in  the  Place.  All  that  Jofeph 
felt,  when  he  wept  over  his  Biother  Benjamin,  or  Da-- 
vid,  when  making  a  Covenant  with  Jonathan,  did  I 
feel,  and  I  could  almoft  fay,  far  more.  Li  ihort,  my 
Sou]  was  quite  full  with  Peace,  with  Love  and  Joy  ; 
and  I  took  the  firft  Opportunity  of  kncehng  down  with 
my  dear  Family,  and  venting  my  Heart  before  them. 
Several  of  my  Parifnioners  came  with  great  Joy  to  fee 
JTie,  and  after  we  liad  wept  and  prayed  and  gave  Thanks 
for  a  confiderable  Time,  I  took  a  little  Refrelhment  for 
my  Body  j  but  felt  my  Soul  fo  full  of  a  Senfe  of  the  Di- 
vine Love,  that  I  v/anied  Words  to  exprefs  myfelf !    O 

deareji 


at   SAVANN AH.  53 

deareji  yESU  f  why  am  I  thus  highly  favoured  I  Oh  nn- 
fpeakable,  free,  ahnighty,  and  everlajiing  Love  !  And 
yet  thefe  are  only  Earnejis  and  Foretajles  of  future  Blifs  ! 
Hajien,  deareji  LORD!  hajien  that  happy  Hoiir^ 
when  I  Jhall  be  received  into  Ahrzhd.nis  BofoTTiy  and  praife 
thee  to  all  Eternity  for  what  thou  haji  done  for  our  Souls. 
Evenfo,  come,  LORD  JESUS  !  Make  no  long  tarry^ 
ing,  O  my  GOD  I 

Friday,  June  6.  Blefled  be  the  God  of  all  Grace, 
who  continues  to  do  for  me  marvellous  Things  !  This 
Day  1  hope  Salvation  is  come  to  many  in  my  Houfe.— • 
Long  have  I  interceded  for  poor  Savannah.  Strong 
Wreftlings  have  I  had  with  God  Time  after  Time, 
both  in  public  and  private,  on  the  Inhabitants  Behalf  j 
and  this  Night  God  has  mofl  remarkably  anfwered  my 
Requefts. — -Ever  lince  my  Arrival,  my  Soul  has  been 
quite  carried  out  with  a  Senfe  of  God's  Love,  in  bring- 
ing me  back  fo  opportunely.  And  all  this  Day,  one  or 
two  of  my  Friends  perceived  a  Divine  Power  coming 
gradually  amongft  us. — In  the  Afternoon,  one  of  the 
A'len  that  1  brought  over,  was  enabled  to  wreftle  with 
God  exceedmgly,  both  for  himfelf  and  others. — About 
four,  God  gave  me  to  pray  earneflly,  and  particularly 
with  ftrong  Cryings  and  Tears  for  my  Friends,  who 
were  in  the  Room  with  me. — Many  came  into  the  Paf- 
fage  near  us,  and  wept  much  before  the  Lord,  deeply 
labouring  in  their  Souls.— -After  this  I  went  up  and  pray'd 
for  near  half  an  Hour  with  fonie  of  the  Women  of  the 
Houfe,  and  three  Girls,  who  feemed  to  be  weary  with 
the  Weight  of  their  Sins.  But  when  we  came  to  pub- 
lic Prayer,  the  Holy  Ghost  feemed  to  come  into  the 
Congregation  like  a  mighty  rufhing  Wind,  carrying  all 
before  it. — I  was  fo  carried  out  in  Expofition,  that  tha 
Sweat  poured  moft  plentifully  from  my  Face,  till  my  ani- 
mal Spirits  were  almoft  exhaufted. — I  had  not  begun 
long  before  feveral  fell  a  crying  forely  ;  and  the  Num- 
ber ftiU  increafed,  till  young  Aien  and  Maidens,  old 
Ivlen  and  Children,  were  all  diflblved  in  Tears  and 
Mourning  after  Jesus.  I  believe  there  were  fcarce  half 
ii  Dozen  in  the  whole  Congregatioiij    but  what  were 

deeply 


54        ^^.  W H I T  E  F I E  L  D V  Jounial 

deeply  affefted.  I  think  I  never  faw  the  Hke  before.  It 
amazed  me,  and  murt  have  aftedted  the  Heart  of  any 
one  not  quite  dead  to  God,  to  behold  the  little  Lambs 
crying  moft  bitterly.  And  vi'hat  was  more  extraordinary, 
after  Church,  feveral  of  my  Pariftiioners,  all  my  Fami- 
ly, and  the  little  Children,  came  crying  along  the  Street, 
and  many  could  not  avoid  praying  very  loud. — Being 
come  home,  I  laid  myfelf  upon  the  Bed,  weak  in  Body, 
and  aftoniflied  at  the  Power  of  God.  But  finding  fa 
many  come  up  in  fuch  a  Condition,  I  rofe  from  Bed, 
and  betook  myfelf  to  Prayer  again.  But  had  I  not  lift- 
ed up  my  Voice  like  a  Trumpet,  the  Groans  and  Cries 
of  the  Children  would  have  prevented  my  being  heard. 
This  continued  for  near  an  Hour,  till  at  laft,  finding 
their  Concern  rather  increafe  than  abate,  I  defired  all  to 
retire.  But  oh  how  was  I  delighted  afterwards,  to  hear 
fomeor  other  praying  moft:  earneftly  to  God  in  every 
Corner  of  the  Houfe :  And  it  furprized  me  to  hear  what 
a  Spirit  of  Supplication  was  put  into  the  Hearts  of  foms 
of  the  Boys  a,nd  Girls,  It  happened  alfo  to  thunder  and 
lighten,  which  added  much  to  the  Solemnity  of  the 
^fight,  and  reminded  us  more  of  the  Coming  of  the  Son 
of  Man.  After  my  Parifhioners  had  been  gone,  and  the 
Family  retired  for  about  an  Hour,  when  I  thought 
their  Spirits  were  compofed,  I  called  all  together,  and 
fung  an  Hymn  to  our  dear  Lord  Jesus,  whofe  Hand 
alone  had  brought  fuch  mighty  Thir.gs  to  pifs.  My  ex- 
erting myfelf  fo  much,  threw  my  Body  into  a  Fever  ; 
2nd  God's  Comforts  fo  refreflied  my  Soul,  that  I  flept 
but  little  the  v.'hole  Night.  The  next  Day  the  Concern 
i^ill  continued,  efpccially  amongft  the  Girls,  four  of 
■whom  I  have  great  Reafon  to  believe  are  comiiig  home 
truly  to  Jesus  Christ,  with  as  many  Boys.  Their 
Convi(5tions  inrreafe.  They  are  even  now  in  frequent 
Agonies,  when  lying  and  groaning  under  the  Scnfe  of 
their  original  an  adual  Sins.  The  next  Day  after  this 
Awakening,  for  near  tvw  Hours,  they  cried  out  as  vio- 
lently as  they  did  the  Night  before.  One  has  been  io 
filled  with  Love,  Peace  and  Joy,  that  fhe  has  continued 
almofl:  whole  Nights  in  Prayer.  Her  Heart  burns  with 
longing  V^^iiQ  for   the  Salvation  of  her  dear  Relationa 

and 


€t  SAVANNAH.  S5 

and  Fellow- Creatures ;  (he  is  furprifingly  e/abledto  pray 
to  God  for  them,  and  has  wrote  fuch  Truths,  as  I  am 
perfuaded  none  could  write  without  an  inward  Feeling  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  in  the  Heart.     The  Boys  alfo  go  on 
well.     I  walk  out  with  them  or  the  Girls  under  Convic- 
tion once  every  Day,  and  am  delighted  to  find  what  a 
National  Account  they  give  me  of  the  Work   of  God, 
and  how  they  are  let  to  fee  the  Corruption  of  their  Na- 
ture.    They  are  obferved  frequently  to  retire,  and  feme 
of  them  have  prayed  fweetly  before  me,  and   at  other 
Times  they  have  been  overheard  wreftling  with  God  in 
the  ftrongeft  Manner,  and   praying  to  Jesus  Christ 
to  deliver  them  from  the  bottomlefs  Pit. — Several  alfo  of 
my  Parifhioners  are  under  great  Concern  :  But  I  menti- 
on my  Orphans  in  particular,  that  their  Benefadl:ors  may- 
rejoice  in  hearing  what  God    is  doing  for  their  Souls. 
BlefTed  be  his  holy  Name  !    our   Affairs  are  now  carried 
on  with  Decency  and   Order,  and  I  really   believe  Sa- 
vanruih  will  yet  become  the  Joy  of  the  Earth.     Ere  long, 
I  truft,  the  Lord  will  take  it  into  his  own  Hands,  and 
then  the  Curfe  which  I  believe  has  hitherto  been  lying  on 
it,  will  be  taken  off.     I   am   now  beginning  to  build  a 
Church,  and  when   Matters  are  brought  to  a    fufficient 
Extremity,  then  I  believe  will  be  the  Lord's  Opportu- 
nity to  fave  and  deliver  us.     He  feems  to  be  purging  the 
Province  apace.      The  Sword  will  fweep  away  the  Re- 
fufe  of  Lies,  and  I  truft  a  Reft  will  yet  be  prepared  in 
this  defpifed  Place,  for  our  dear  Lord's  own  People. — 
BlefTed  be  God,  the  Children  are  induftrious.     We  have 
now  in  the  Houfe  near  lOO  Yards   of  Cloth  fpun  and 
weaved.     We  have  alfo  feveral  Tradefmen  belonging  to 
the  Houfe,  much  Cattle  on  our  Plantation,  and  I  hope 
ere  long  we   fhall  live  amongft   ourfelves.     There  are 
Several  Mafters  fet  over  the   Children,  who  watch  over 
them  both  in  and  after  School  Hours.     Generally  once  a 
Day,  if  I  do  not,  they  walk  with  their  refpedive  Charges, 
^  tell  them   of  the  Glory  of  God  in  the  Creation,    and 
praife  him  by  fmging  a  Hyrrin.     But  I  fhall  give  a  more 
particular  Account  when  I  fend  my  next  Journal. — As  it 
is  uncertain  when  I  fhall  return  to  my  native  Country, 
I  thought  it  my  Duty  to  fend  this  in  the  mean  while, 

that 


56  Mr.  Wh  I T  E  F I E L D'i  Journal 

that  my  dear  Friends  may  give  Thanks  in  my  Behalf, 
and  by  their  Prayers  ftrengthen  my  Hands :  For  anef- 
i"c(flual  Door  is  opening  in  America  ;  and  I  trutt  the  Time 
is  coming,  when  the  Earth  fliall  be  filled  with  the  Know- 
ledge of  the  Lord,  as  the  Waters  cover  the  Sea. — We 
hear  of  Wars  and  Rumours  of  Wars,  but  let  not  the  Ser- 
vants of  Jesus  Christ  be  troubled;  for  the  Lord 
generally  ufhers  in  his  Kingdom  with  dreadful  Pomp, 
and  deftroys  thofe  with  the  Sword  of  the  Enemy,  who 
would  not  be  wounded  with  the  Sword  of  his  Spirit. — 
May  the  LORD  be  glorifud  in  oil  his  Difpenfations  ! 
aud  may  that  happy  Time  notv  hajlen  on,  zvherein  the  Leo- 
pard Jhall  lie  down  with  the  Kid,  and  the  Lion  eat  Straw 
like  the  Ox,  and  the  People  learn  IVar  no  more  ! — The 
Concern  I  have  for  the  Church  in  general,  and  Savannah 
and  the  Orphan-Houfe  in  particular,  lies  much  upon  my 
Heart  Day  and  Night. — But  I  commit  myfelf  to  God 
in  a  Hymn  compofed  by  the  Great  Z,«/Z'^rj  and  tranf" 
lated  by  my  Friend  Mr.  Wejley. 

I. 

Commit  thou  all  tioy   Griefs, 

And  Ways  into  his  Hands  ; 
To  his  fur e  Truth  and  tender  Care, 

JVho  Earth  and  Heuv'n  commands.  • 

II. 

Who  points  the  Clouds  their  Courfe^ 

Whom  Winds  and  Seas  obey  ; 
He/hail  direSt  thy  zvand'ring  Feety 

He  J})all  prepare  thy  Way. 

III. 
Thou  on  the  LORD  rely. 

So  fife  JJmlt   thou  go  on  ; 
Fix  on  his  Work  thy  Jledfafl  Eye^ 

So  Jhall  thy  IFork  be  done. 

IV. 

No  Profit  canjl  thou  gain 

By  flf  cor  fuming  Care  j 
To  him  comincndthy  Caufe;  his  Ear 

Attends  thefoftejl  Prafr.  V.   TZj> 


at  SAVANN  AH,  S7 

V. 

Thy  everlajiing  Truth, 

Father,  thy  ceafelefs  Love 
Sees  all  thy  Children's  Wants,  and  knoVJS 

What  hejl  for  each  will  prove. 

VI. 

Jnd  zvhiitfoe'er  thou  zviirji, 

Thoudojl,  O  Kiiig  of  Kings -y 
What  thy  unerring  Wifdom  chofe,  ^ 

Thy  Powr  to  Being  brings, 

VII. 

Thou  ev'ry  ivhere  haji  Way, 

And  all  Things  ferve  thy  Might  ; 
Thy  evry  AEl  pure  Blejfing  is. 

Thy  Path  unfullyd  Light. 

VIII. 

When  thou  arife ft,  LORD, 

What  Jhall  thy  Work  withjland  ? 
When  all  thy  Children  want,  thou  giv'Jl, 

Who,  who  Jhall Ji ay  thy  Hand  ? 

IX. 

Give  to  the  Winds  thy  Fears  ; 

Hope,  and  be  iindifmaf  d ; 
GOD  hears  thy  Sighs,  and  counts  thy  Tears, 

GOD  Jhall  lift  up  thy  Head. 

X. 

Thro'  Waves,  and  Clouds,  and  Storms, 

He  gentry  clears  thy  Way  ; 
Wait  thou  his  Time,  fo  Jhall  this  Night 

Soon  end  in  joyous  Day. 

XL 

Still  heavy  is  thy  heart ; 

Still  fink  thy  Spirits  down  : 
Cajf  of  the  Weight,  let  Fear  depart,' 

MeVryCr.hior,.^  ,XII.  A^.t 


5^         Mr.V^ KIT z 1 1'^i.Ti's  Journal 
XII. 

What  tho*  thou  rulcft  not, 

Tet  Heovn^  and  Earthy  and  Hell 
Proclaim,   GOD  fitteth  on  the  Throne^ 

Jnd  ruleth  all  Thhigs  well  I 

xiir. 

Leave  to  his  Sovereign  Sway 

To  choofc  and  to  cormnand ; 
So'Jhalt  thou  wondering  ozun,  his  Tfay 

How  wife,  howjlrong  his  Hand. 

XIV. 

Far^  far  above  thy  Thought, 

His  Counfel  Jhall  appear. 
When  fully  he  the  Work  hath  wrought ^ 

That  cans' d  thy  ncedlcfs  Fear, 

XV. 

Thou  fee]}  our  Weaknef,  LORD^ 

Our  Hearts  are  known  to  thee; 
O  lift  thou  up  the  finking  Hand, 

Confirm  the  feeble  Knee  ! 

XVI. 

tct  us  in  Life^   in  Death, 

Thyfledfnft  Truth  declare. 
And  publijh  tuith  our  latcj]  Breath, 

Thy  Love  and  Guardian  Care  ! 

Jmen  and  Amen  / 


FINIS. 


L  / 


It 


.< 


h 


:#}/ 


m 


i    *j 


Wl^Bf 


■w>,^ 


'>:<> 


.    ^ 


■^t^ 


*■    H 


