,^%^ 


3.«'- 


y 


v^- 


^\^\^^^r} 


i^^m:' 


L^vH    a  3    /Z^'-t" 


■^ 


CONTINUATION 

Of  the  REVEREND 

Mr.  JVHirEFIELD\ 

JOURNAL, 

During  the   Time  he  was    detained    in 
England  by  the  Embargo. 

The  FouRTii  Edition. 


LONDON: 

Printed  by  AV.  Strahan.  and  fold  by  Jame". 
HujTTON,  at  the  Bible  and  Sun^  without  Tojipk- 
Bar.   1739. 

^-         ^<^ 


[  "i  ] 

To  the  Reverend 

Mr.  Geoji'qe  Whitefield, 
I. 

r^E  R  VANT  of  GCD,  the  Summons  hear, 
^     "Thy  Mafler  calls  ^  artje^  obey  ! 
m>e  Tokens  of  his  Will  appear^ 

His  Providence  points  out  thy  Way. 

IL 

■J 
Lo  !  we  commend  thee  to  his  Grace  ! 

In  Confidence  go  forth  !  he  ftrong  ! 
Thy  Meat  his  Will,  thy  Boaji  his  Praife^ 

His  Righteoufnefs  be  all  thy  Song, 

III. 

Strong  in  the  Lord's  Almighty  Power ^ 

And  qrm'd  in  Panople  Divine, 
Firm  mafjl  thou  ft  and  in  Dangers  Hour, 

And  prove  the  Strength  ^  Jesus  Thine, 

IV. 

Thy  Breaft-plafe  be  his  Righteoufnefs, 
His  /acred  Truth  thy  Loins  furround -, 

Shod  be  thy  beauteous  Feet  ivith  Peace, 
Spring  forth  J  and fpr cad  the  Gof pel  Sound. 

Fight 


[   iv  ] 

Fight  the  good  Fight ,  and  fiand  fecure 

hi  Faith^s  impenetrable  Shield  -, 
Heirs  Prince  pall  tremble  at  its  Power, 

With  all  his  fiery  Daris  repel' d. 

VL 

Prevent  tJjy  Foes,  nor  wait  their  Charge, 
But  call  their  Ungring  Battle  on. 

But  lho?tgly  grafp  thy  Sevetifold  Targe, 
Afid  bear  the  World,  and  Satan  down, 

VII. 

T^he  Helmet  of  Salvation  take, 

I'he  Lord's,  the  Spirit's  conqii  ring  Sword, 
Speak  from  the  Word — In  lAghtning  [peak. 

Cry  out,  and  thunder— -from  the  Word. 

VIII. 

Champion  of  GOD,  thy  LORD  proclaim, 

JESUS  alone  refolve  to  know ; 
Tread  down  thy  Foes  in  JESU's  Name : 

Go — Co?iquring,  and  to  conquer  go, 

IX. 

Thro  Racks  and  Fires  piirfue  thy  Way, 

Be  jnind/id  of  a^  dying  GOD  ; 
Finijh  thy  Cour/e,  and  win  the  Day  : 

Look  lip— And  fcal  the  Truth  with  Blood, 

Charles  Wesley. 


(  o 


A 

CONTINUATION 

O  F 

Mr.  WHirE FIELDS 

JOURNAL,   '^dc. 

Blackheath,  in  Kent. 

Monday^  June  4. 

WENT  a  fecond  Time  to  pay  my  Rcfpctfts  to 
the  Archbifnop  of  Canterbury^  but  his  Grace 
was  gone  out,  as  before. — Waited  upon  the  Bi- 
fhop  of  London,  who  u fed  me  very  civilly. — Fi- 
niflied  all  my  Affairs  according  to  my  Mind. — Took  Leave 
of  my  weeping  Friends,  and  went  in  Company  with  many 
of  them  to  Blackheath^  where  was  near  as  large  a  Congre- 
gation, as  there  was  at  Kennlngton  the  laft  Lorcts-Day. — T 
think  I  never  was  fo  much  enlarged  fince  I  have  preached  in 
the  Fields. — My  Difcourfe  was  near  two  Hours  long,  and 
the  People  were  fo  melted  down,  and  wept  (o  loud,  that  they 
almoll  drowned  my  Voice. — 1  could  not  but  cry  out.  Come, 
ye  Pharlfees^  come  and  fee  the  Lord  fefui  getting  hlmjclfthe  F'l- 
^or\\ — Afterwards  went  to  an  Inn  upon  the  Heath,  where 
manv  came  drowned  in  Tears  to  take  a  iaft  Farewel. — The 
Remainder  of  the  Evening  I  fpent  moft  comfortably  with  fe- 
B  ■        vera! 


2       Mr.  Whitefield'^  Journal 

veral  of  my  Brethren,  and  went  to  Bed  about  120'Clock. 
— I  hope,  in  feme  Meafure,  thankful  for  the  great  Things  we 
had  feen  and  heard. 

BlenJofi. 

Tucfday,  June  5.  Went  in  the  Morning  to  Blendon,  five 
Miles  from  Blackheath,  and  enjoy 'd  a  fweet  Retreat  at  the 
Houfe  of  Mr.  Delamot. — Preached  with  unufual  Power  at 
Bcxley  CoTnmon^  at  1 1  in  the  Morning,  to  about  300  People, 
and  in  the  Evening,  near  Woolwich,  to  feveral  Thoufands. — 
My  Word,  I  believe,  came  with  the  Demonftration  of  the 
Spirit, —  I  return'd  to  Blendon  rejoicing,  and  fpent  the 
Evening  moft  delightfully  with  many  dear  Chriflian  Friends, 
who  came  from  Londsn  to  fee  me. — Oh  /  how  does  their 
fiuect  Co7npany  coufe  me  to  long  for  Commiin'mi  mnongji  the 
Spirits  of  juj}  Men  made  perfe5i  !  Accomplijh,  O  Lord,  I  be- 
feech  thee,  the  Number  of  thine  Eled^  and  hajlen  thy  King- 
dom. 


Bexk\\  and  Grwjefend. 

Wedncfday,  'June  6.  Breakfafted  Avith  many  Friends,  and 
gave  a  Word  of  Exhortation  to  many  more  that  ,came 
from  London  to  bid  me  Adieu. — Their  Hearts  were  ready  to 
break  with  Sorrow. — But  GOD,  I  hope,  will  fupply  my 
Al)fcnce,  by  raifmgup  more  Miniflers  to  go  in  and  out  before 
them. — About  10  in  the  Morning,  read  Prayers,  and  preach- 
ed at  Bexky  Church,  Mr.  Peers,  the  Vicar,  my  Brother 
and  Fellow-Labourer  in  Chriji,  having  given  me  a  prefllng 
Invitation. — The  Congregation  was  large  ,^and  my  Soul  was 
fo  filled  with  GOD,  that  the  Word  came  with  very  great 
Power  to  all  that  heard  me. — Bliffed  be  God. — After  Sermon 
we  dined  with  Mr.  Peers,  and  having  taken  a  Farewel,  we 
left  our  Friends  in  Tears,  and  hafted  to  Gravcfend,  where  I 
read  Prayers,  and  preached  in  a  Church  near  the  Town  to 
about  600  People. — /  have  ?io  Ohjeilion  again/1,  but  highly 
approve  of  the  excellent  Liturgy  of  our  Church,  would  Minijiers 
lend  me  their  Churches  to  ife  it  in. — If  not,  let  the?n  blame 
themfelves,  that  I  pray  and  preach  in  the  Fields. 


CravefenJ^ 


^t  Gravefend,  Bexley    and  BXtn&on.       3 

Gravejhid^  Bexle)\  and  Blendon. 

Thurfday^  June  7,  Received  two  Letters  from  Perfons, 
confeffing,  that  they  came  to  hiear  me  out  of  a  bad  Motive, 
but  vi^ere  apprehended  by  the  free  Grace  of  Jef'is  Chriji. 
— Anfwered  them,  and  fome  others. — Read  Prayers,  and 
preached  in  the  fameChurch  asl  did  !aft  Night. — Took  fome 
Refreiliment,  and  returned  in  the  Evening,  and  preached  in 
Bexley  Church,  being  much  excited  fo  to  do  by  the  kind 
Sollicitations  of  Mr.  Peers. — The  Congregation  was  much 
larger  than  we  could  expect,  and  mofr,  I  believe,  were  much  af- 
fe£led. —  Hei  e  fome  of  Mr.  Del(umt''i,  Family  gave  us  the  Meet- 
ing.— After  Sermon  I  return'd  to  their  Houfc  nt  Blendon^prdi- 
fmg  and  blefnng  GOD,  that  we  had  once  more  an  Opportunity 
c«  building  up  each  other  in  our  moft  'loly  Faith. — 0/?  I  how 
fiveet  is  this  Retirement  to  7ny  Scul  !  GOD  is  plcafed  to  meet 
me  in  it,  and  vouchfafe  me  great  Meafures  of  his  divine  Pre- 
lence. — I  muft  expecSl  fome  frefn  Trials.  Deareji  Lord^ 
fiveetcn  all  thy  Difpenfaticns  with  a  Seiife  of  thy  Love^  and 
then  deal  ivith  me  as  it  fcemcth  good  in  thy  Sight  ! 

Friday,  June  8.  Preached  at  B^xhy'xn  the  Morning,  and  at 
Charlton  in  the  Afternoon,  whither  1  was  invited  by  the]  Earl 
and  Countefs  of  Egmo?it.  Both  before  and  after  Sermon  they 
entertained  me  with  the  utmolt  Civility. — My  Heart  was 
much  comforted  by  GOD,  and  at  Night  I  returned  with  mv 
Friends  to  my  fvveet  Retreat  at  Blendon.  Oh  !  the  Comforts 
of  having  all  of  one  Mind  in  a  Houfe  !  It  begins  our  Heaven 
upon  Earth. — Was  I  left  to  7ny  oivn  Choice .^  here  would  he  my 
Rrjl. — For  /  have  a  Delight  herein. — But  a  Necejftty  is  laid 
tipcn  me^  and  %vo  unto  me  if  I  preach  not  the  G  of  pel. 

Saturday,  June  9.  Was  much  pleafed  and  edified  in  read- 
ing Bifhop  HaWs  Chrijl  Myjiical,  and  Erskines's  Sermons, 
both  whofe  Works,  with  Boehnis  Sermons,  I  would  earnelt- 
ly  recommend  to  every  one. — Preached  in  the  Evening  at 
Ditlwich,  to  not  a  very  large  Congregation,  and  went  after- 
wards to  Blackhcath,  and  fpent  a  moft  agreeable  Evening 
with  many  Chriftian  Friends,  who  came  thither  on  Purpofe 
to  give  me  the  Meeting. — Bleffed  be  God,  all  behaved,  as 
tho"  their  Co'rivcrfaticn  %uas  in  Heaven. 

B  2  BlmdoKf 


4       Mr.  Whitefield*5  Journal 
Ble?idon,  Bexley^  and  Blackheath. 

Sunday^  "June  lO.  Haften'd  back  to  Blendon^  where  more  of 
our  Brethren  came  laft  Night  to  fee  me. —  Preached  with 
more  Power  than  ever,  and  afPifted  in  adminiftring  the  Sacra- 
ment to  about  200  Communicants  in  Bexley  Church. — Din'd, 
gave  Thanks,  and  fung  Hymns  at  Mr.  Dela?nofs. — Preached 
with  great  Power  in  the  Evening  on  Blackheath,  to  above 
20000  People,  and  collected  fixteen  Pounds  feven  ShilUngs  for 
the  Orphans. — After  Sermon  I  went  to  the  Green  Man,  near 
the  Place  where  I  preached,  and  continued  till  Midnight  in- 
liant  in  Prayer,  Praife,  and  Thankfgiving,  and  Chriftian  Con- 
verfation. — I  believe  there  were  near  50  or  6o  of  us  in  alh— ' 
Great  Decency,  and  much  Devotion  was  to  be  feen.-^Num-' 
bcrs  ftood  by  as  Spectators. — God  enlarged  my  Heart  much 
in  Prayer  and  Exhortation. — And  in  fhort  every  Thing  was 
ib  well  regulated,  that  all  unprejudic'd  Perfons  that  came  in 
muft  fay,  Surely  God  is  in  this  Place. 

Many  of  them  watched  unto  Prayer  and  Praife  all  Night — 
I  think  it  every  Chriftian's  Duty  to  be  particularly  careful  to 
honour  and  glorify  God  in  Places  where  he  is  mofl:  difhonour'd. 
Some  can  fmg  the  Songs  of  the  Drunkards  in  Publick  Houfes, 
Others  can  fpend  whole  Nights  in  Chambering  and  Wanton- 
nefs,  why  fhould  Chriftians  be  afhamed  to  hng  the  Songs  of 
the  Lamb,  and  fpend  Nights,  as  their  Lord  did  before  them,  in 
Exercifes  of  Devotion? 

Silent  have  we  been  too  long, 
Ju/d  hy  Earth'' s  rebellious  Throng, 
Thee  if  tvejhould Jiill  deny. 
Lord,  the  very  Stones  would  cry. 

Hallelujahs 

Blackheath,  Bexley^  Duhvichj  and  BlendQ72: 

A'londay,  "June  II.  Pray'd,  fung  with,  and  gave  a  warm 
Exhortation  to  thofe  that  continued  at  Blackheath  all  Night — 
Read  Prayers  at  Bexley  Church,  Din'd  with  Mrs.  S —  at  Z,^- 
ivijhani,  a  Gentlewoman,  who  gladly  received  both  me  and 
my  Friends  into  her  Houle. — Preached  ia  the  Evening  to  a 

much 


at  Bkndon,  Bexley,  mid  Blackheath.  5 

much  larger  Audience  than  before  at  Dulwlch^  and  then  had- 
ed back  to  Blendon,  in  Company  with  fome  who '  Love  our 
Lord  Jefus  in  Sincerity.  Oh  how  fwiftly  and  delightfully  do 
thofe  Hours  pafs  away  which  are  fpent  in  Chrijiian  Converfa- 
tion  ! 

BlendoUy  Bexley^  and  Blackheath. 

Tuefday^  June  12.  Read  Prayers  at  Bexley  Church — Begun 
(being  prefled  thereto  both  in  Spirit  and  by  my  Friends )  to 
put  fome  of  my  Extempore  Difcourfes  into  Writing — Preach- 
ed at  Blackheath  in  the  Evening  to  about  20000  People  and 
fpent  the  remaining  Part  of  the  Night/ with  rather  more 
Friends,  and  as  much  Chearfulnefs,  Decency,  and  Devotion 
as  on  Sunday  Night  laft. —  Several  People  of  different  Ranks 
ftood  by,  as  before.  Some,  I  hope,  went  away  edified,  for 
God  gave  me  great  Enlargement  of  Soul,  and  the  Exhortation, 
which  was  long  and  powerful,  I  believe,  reached  their  Hearts. 
God  grant  we  may  thus  ahuays  continue  to  let  our  Light  Jhine 
before  Men. — It  cannot  but  bring  Glory  to  our  Father  zvhich 
is  in  Heaven. 

Wednefday^  June  13.  Retired  in  the  Morning  to  Blendon — 
preached,  as  ufual,  at  Blackheath^  and  went  with  my  Fellov/ 
Travellers  to  Lewijham,  about  a  Mile  off,  to  theHoufe  of  Mrs. 
S — ,  who  has  frequently  prefled  me  to  abide  there — How  docs 
God  raife  ?ne  up  Friends  unfought  for  in  every  Place  !  Who 
woidd  but  naked  follow  a  naked  Chrijl?  After  Supper  I  ex- 
pounded  to,  and  prayed  with  feveral  Gentlemen   and  Ladies 

whom  Mrs.   S had  invited  to  hear  the  Word.      Oh  that 

it  7nay  take  deep  Root  in  their  Hearts  ! 

Thurfdoy.,  June  14.  Spent  the  whole  Day  in  my  pleafant 
and  profitable  Retreat  at  Blendon — And  in  the  E\'ening  had 
the  Pleafure  of  introducing  my  Honoured  and  Reverend  Friend 
Mr.  John  JVejley  to  preach  at  Blackheath — The  Lord  give 
him  ten  thoifand  times  juore  Succefs  than  Fie  has  given  ma  !  Af- 
ter Sermon,  we  fpent  the  Evening  mofi:  agreeably  together  v/ith 
many  Chriftiian  Friends  at  the  Green  Man — About  ten  vv-a 
admitted  all  to  come  in  that  would — The  Room  was  foon  fill- 
ed— God  gave  me  Utterance. — I  exhorted  and  prayed  for 
near  an  Hour,  and  then  went  to  Bed,  rejoicing  that  another 
frefli  Inrode  was  made  into  Satan  s  Territories,  by  Mr.  JVejley' \ 
following  me  in  Field  preaching  as  well  \n  London  as  in  Brif- 
tol. — Lord,  give  the  Word,  and  grc&t  foall  be  the  Company  of 
fuch  Preachns,  J?nen,   Amen,  Friday^ 


6       Mr.  W  H  I  T  E  F  I  E  L  D  V  Joumal 

Friday,  yunej^.  Continued  at  B/endomWDciy. — Preached 
with  great  Power  in  the  Evening  at  Blackheatb  to  about  as 
many  as  iifual,  and  after  retired  to  LewiJ]m?n,  where  1  and  my 
Friends  v/ere  again  moft  kindly  receiv'd  by  Mrs.  S — .  May 
the  Lord  blefs  her  Hoiife  as  he  did  the  Houfs  of  Obed-edom,  and 
make  each  of  our  Souls  an  Ark  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

Saturday  fir.ie,  i6.  Returned  in  the  Morning  toBlendon — 
Finiflied  fome  Writings  I  had  in  Hand,  and  preached  in  the 
Evening  at  Blackheatb  on  Abraham's  Offering  up  his  Son 
Jfaac. — God  make  us  Partakers  of  fuch  a  xvorking  Obedient 
F.iith  ! 

Sunday  y  J  we  17.  Preached  with  much  Power  in  Bexley 
Church,  and  helped  toadminifter  to  near  300  Communicants, 
moft  of  which  came  from  London. —  Baptiz'd  a  Perfon  of  28 
Years  of  Age,  whom  God  had  work'dupon  by  my  Miniftry. 
Din'd  at  Blendohy  and  took  fweet  Counfel  with  many  Chrifti- 
an  Friendi — Preached  to  above  20000  People  at  Blackhcathy 
and  afterwards  fup'd  again  at  the  Green  Man.  There  were  near 
3 CO  in  the  Room  — God  was  plcafed  to  give  me  extraordina- 
ry AUiitance  in  exhorting  and  Prayer,  which  I  continued  till 
Eleven  o'  Clock,  and  then  retired  to  Bed  much  pleas'd  to 
think  Religion,  -vyhich  had  long  been  fculking  in  Corners, 
and  was  almoft  laugh'd  out  of  the  World,  fhould  now  begin 
to  appear  abroad,  ^nd  openly  fhew  herfelf  at  Noon-day.  Let 
them  count  us  Vain-glorious  for  thus  confcjfing  Chrifi  before 
Men  — //  is  a  fmallTbing  -with  us  to  be  judged  of  Mens  Judg- 
fnent — To  our  own  Majier  wcjland  or  fall.     What  voc  arc  the 

^     "WUl  f 


lafi  Day  -will  Jhew. 


Hertford, 


Monday.,  Jnne  18.  An  Embargo  being  laid  upon  the  Ship- 
ping for  fome  Weeks,  I  had  time  to  go  to  Hertford,  whither  I 
was  invited  by  feveral  prcfTing  Letters,  declaring  how  God  had 
work'd  by  my  Miniftry,  when  I  was  there  laft —  We  din'd 
and  pray'd  with  Madam  Cook  of  Newington  and  her  Family, 
and  reached  tiie  Place  intended  by  {^y^w  at  Night — A  moffc 
kind  Reception  I  met  with  from  many  Chriftians — At  eight  I 
preached,  according  to  Appointment,  with  Freedom  of  Spirit, 
to  about  4000  People,  who  were  quite  filent  and  attentive — 
Bicficd  he  God,  I  found  myfclf  much  ftronger  than  when  I 
was  here  laft — God  grant  1  viay  fo  live  that  viy  Progrefs  may  be 
fnade  known  untp  all  Men  ! 

Tuefday, 


at  Hartford,  and  Broad-oaks.  y 

Tuefday^  'June  19.  Preached'this  Morning  about  feven  of  the 
Clock  to  near  3000  People  with  uncommon  EnU^rgement  of 
Heart,  and  apparent  Succefs — Many  came  to  me  under  ftrong 
Convictions  of  their  fall'n  Eftate,  and  their  Want  of  a  God- 
man  to  be  their  Mediator — Many  I  heard  of  befiu^T  who  had 
been  much  worked  upon  by  my  Preaching  —  Seve;.l  Chrifti- 
an  Families,  I  find,  had  been  Comforted — And  fuch.'mme- 
diate  Effects  produced,  that  I  could  not  help  rejoicing  ia  Spirit 
exceedingly  —  Breakfafted,  din'd,   pray'd,  and  fung   Hymns 

with  Mr.  S ,  aDifTenting   Minifter,  was  vifited  by  fome 

Qiiakers,  and  in  the  Afternoon  waited  upon  Mr  Th — ood^ 
a  Baptijl  Teacher,  who,  unknown  to  me,  had  fent  a  Horfe  to 
fetch  me  from  London. — Preached  about  feven  in  the  Eveningto 
about  five  thoufand  Souls  upon  the  Faith  oi  Jbraham,  in  which 
GOD  was  pleafed  to  give  me  great  Freedom,  and  the  People 
great  Attention. — I  believe  GOD  has  much  People  in  and 
near  Hertford. — His  efpecial  Providence  which  detains  me  in 
England  fent  me  hither. — T  truft  they  have  received  a  fecond 
Benefit. — Not  unto  me^  O  Lord.,  not  unto  me,  but  unto  thy 
Na?ne,  unto  thy  free  Grace  in  Chriji  Jefus  our  Lo?d,  be  all 
the  Glory, 

Broad-oakSj  in  Eflex. 

Wednefday,  June  20.  Set  out  about  five  in  the  Morning, 
and  hafted  to  Broad-oaks,  about  20  Miles  from  Hertford. — 
About  Midway  at  Bipop-Storford,  as  we  were  paffing  thro', 
a  Perfon  entirely  unknown,  conftrained  both  me  and  my 
Friends  to  come  and  refrefh  ourfelves  a  little  at  his  Houfe. — 
We  accepted  of  his  Offer,  and  found  he  vv'as  Son  to  a  Gentle- 
man, who  had  fent  to  engage  me  to  preach  at  this  Place  on  iv-/- 
day  Night  next. — Having  fpent  an  Hour  very  agreeably  with 
fome  Chriftian  Friends,  he  went  with  us,  and  brought  us  on 
our  Way  to  Broad-oaks,  the  Way  being  intricate.—About 
I  2  we  got  thither,  and  perceived  that  Providence  had  fent 
us  moft  opportunely  to  a  Family,  fome  of  whom  being  born 
after  the  Spirit,  are,  for  that  Reafon,  moll  violently  oppofed 
and  perfecuted  by  thofe  Foes  of  their  own  Houfhold,  who 
are  only  born  after  the  Flefh.  A  Clergyman  has  been  em- 
ployed to  divert  them  from  their  prefent  Madnefs,  as  they 
call  it  ;  and  has  done  them  the  Honour  of  Preaching  againit 
them. — For  this  Week  paft,  they  have  been  continually  be- 

fet 


8       Mr.  Whttefield'^  Journal 

kt  with  Numbers  of  fuch,  who  are  Lovers  of  Pleafurc  more 
than  Lovers  of  GOD,  and  who  would  tell  them,  that  a  decent, 
genteel  and  fafliionable  Religion,  is  fufficient  to  carry  them 
to  Heaven. — They  knew  nothing  of  my  paying  them  this 
Vifit,  which  made  them  more  thankful. — No  one  can  tell 
what  a  comfortable  Meeting  GOD  gave  us, — Surely  it  was 
Heaven  begun  upon  Earth. — We  found  the  Sweets  of  Op- 
pofition,  and  rejoiced  greatly  in  the  Profpe6l  of  fufFering  for 
C/;r//?'s  Sake. — To  encreafe  our  Satisfadion,  Mr.  Dela?7iot, 
a  Convert  of  Mr.  hghani's,  came  from  Cn777bridge  to  meet 
us. — He  is  fcandaloufly  oppofed  at  that  Univerfitv. — 
The  Students  make  him  a  Proverb  of  Reproach,  "and 
abufe  him  in  the  rudeft  Manner. — He  has  been  forbid  coming 
in  to  one  College,  and  two  or  three  that  aflbciate  with  him 
have  been  threatened  much  by  their  Tutors  for  keeping  him 
Company. — And  here  I  cannot  but  remark  what  wonderful 
Mercies  GOD  has  fhewn  this  Mr.  Delarnofs  Family. — About 
three  or  four  Years  ago,  GOD  was  plcafed  to  touch  the 
Heart  of  his  Brother  Charles^  who  hearing  that  Mr.  TFtJley 
was  going  to  Georgia.^  (tho'  his  Father  would  have  fettled  him 
in  a  very  handfome  Way)  offered  to  go  Abroad  with  him  as 
a  Servant. — His  Parents  Confent  was  asked,  but  they,  and 
almoft  all  their  Relations,  oppofed  it  flrenuoufly, — However, 
the  young  Man  being  refolutc,  and  convinced  that  GOD  cal- 
led him,  at  length  they  fomewhat  confcnted.  He  went  abroad. 
Jived  with  Mr.  Wejley^  ferved  under  him  as  a  Son  in  the 
Gofpel,  did  much  good,  and  endured  great  Hardfnips  for 
the  Sake  of  Jejm  C/;r//?.— Behold,  how  GOD  reward- 
ed him  for  leaving  all. — WhiHl  he  was  abfent,  GOD  was 
pleafed  to  make  Ufe  of  the  Miniftry  of  Mr.  Ingham,  and 
Mr.  Charles  Wejlcy,  in  converting  his  Mother,  two  Siflcrs, 
and  this  young  Gentleman  before- mentioned  at  Cambridgey 
who,  I  pray  GOD,  may  (land  as  a  Barrier  againfl  the  Pro- 
phanenefs.  Debauchery,  Lukewarmnefs,  and  Deifm  of  that 
Seat  of  Learning,  and  prove  both  a  Barnabas,  and  Bonener- 
gos  in  the  Church  of  England! — But  to  return — After  having 
fpent  feme  comfortable  Hours  together,  we  went  to  Wimbilh 
Green,  wlicrc  Mr.  Charles  IVeJley  had  preached  fome  Time 
ago.  I  rode  thither  in  a  Chaife,  and  preached  from  it  to 
about  400  People,  with  great  Freedom  and  Power. — About 
9  we  returned  to  Broad-oaks,  and  fpent  the  mofl  heavenly 
Night  I  have  known  for  a  long  while.  Oh  !  how  doubly 
fweet  are  Opportunities  when  we  have  been  debarred  of  them 

for 


Ctt  Broad-Daks,  SafFron-walden,  ^r.         9 

for  fomeTime  !'  I  believe  the  Saints  of  old  had  never  fo 
much  Comfort,  as  when  they  were  obligei  to  fliut  the  Doors 
for  Fear  of  the  Jetvs^  and  to  hide  thcmfelvcs  in  Dens  and 
Caves  of  the  Earth.  The  Lord  prepare  us  all  for  fuch  an 
Hour. 

Saffron-JValden. 


Thurfday,  June  21.  Was  much  refrefhed  by  lad  Night's 
Relt.--Preached  at  Safron-tvalden^  eight  Miles  from  Broad- 
caks^  to  about  2000  People  :  Din'd  with  my  Friends  at  Mr, 
F— r's. — Preached  at  five  in  the  Evening  to  a  like  Con- 
gregation as  before,  and  returned  to  Broad-oaks^  Ringing  ^nd 
praifmg  GOD. — Wherever  I  go^  People  fly  to  the  Do^rhie 
of  Jefus  Chr'ifl^  as  the  Doves  to  the  Windows. — My  Sheep ^ 
fays  our  Lord^  hear  ?ny  Voice. — J  Stra?7ger  will  they  not 
hear. 

'Thaxtcd^  and  Bip^op-ftortford, 

Friday.,  June  22.  Read  Part  of  Jenks's  SuhmiJJion  to  the 
Righteoufnefs  of  Chriji,  a  moft  excellent  Book.-— Preached 
at  nine  in  the  Morning  at  Thaxted^  about  two  Miles  fr6m 
Broad-oaks.,  to  upwards  of  1 000  People,  but  with  fuch 
Sweetnefs  and  Power,  as  I  have  not  felt  fmce  I  came  into 
Effex. — All  around  me  were  melted  into  Tears. — My  own 
Heart  was  fo  filled  with  Love,  that  I  think  I  could  then  have  laid 

down  my  Life  for  their  Sakes. — After  Sermon,  Mr.  S g, 

kindly  entertained  me,  and  my  Fellow-travellers,  and  many 
others  that  came  to  hear  me. — We  fpent  our  Time  moft 
Ghriftianly  together,  and  afterwards  went  to  Bi/hop-Jiortford, 
about  12  Miles  from  Thaxted. — Where  I  promifed,  GOD 
willing,  to  preach  as  to-Night. — About  five  we  got  thither, 
and  at  fix,  GOD  enabled  me  to  preach  with  Power  to  near 
4000  People. — Many  devout  Souls  were  prefent,  and  feveral 
Invitations  were  given  me  in  the  Name  of  ChriJl  to  other  . 
Parts  of  Effex.,  which  I  promifed  to  do,  fuppofing  tha  Em.- 
bargo  on  the  Shipping  continued. — Blejfcd  be  God^  this  itine- 
rant Preachirrg  brings  me  acquainted  with  Numbers  of  his 
Children,  luhich  otherivife  I  might  never  have  feen  or  heard  of 
in  this  Life.  The  united  ferver.t  Prayers  of  fo  many  righteous 
Souls,  undoubtedly  will  avail  much  in  my  Behalf  I  Lord^  wa : 
ever  Love  like  thine  I 

C  Blackhcath. 


10       Mr,  Wiiitefield'j  'Journal 
Blackheath, 

Saturday^  June  23.  Set  out  betimes  from  Bljloop-Jlortford^ 
and  reached  Blackhcath  about  three  in  the  Afternoon, — 
Preached  at  fcven  in  the  Evening  to  about  lOOO  People. — 
The  SmaUnefs  of  the  Congregation  was  occafioned  by  a  Re- 
port that  I  was  dead. — Wherever  1  came  I  found  the  People 
much  furprized  and  rejoiced  to  fee  me  alive. — God  knews  I 
long  to  be  dijfohed  and  to  be  with  Chrij}^  but  as  I  have  fcarce 
begun  my  'TeJliniGny^  I  believe  I  JJiall  not  yet  die^  but  live,  and 
declare  the  Works  of  the  Lord. — Hereafter  I  hope  he  zuUl  ena- 
ble me  to  Jay,  I  have  fought  a  good  Fight,  I  have  fnijhed  my 
Courfe,  I  have  kept  the  Faith.  Henceforth  there  is  laid  up 
for  me  a  Crown  of  Righteoifnefs,  ivhich  the  Lord,  the  righte- 
ous Judge,  Jhall  give  me  at  that  Day ^ and  not  to  me  only^  but 
unto  all  them  alfo  that  love  his  Jppearirtg. 

Bexley, 

Sunday,  June  1\.  Read  Prayers,  afTiftcd  in  adminffkring 
the  Sacrament  at  Bexley  Church. — Many  came  from  far,  and 
expected  to  hear  me,  but  the  Dicccfan  had  been  pleafed  to  in- 
fift  en  the  Vicar's  denying  me  the  Pulpit.  Whether  for  juft 
Caufe  GOD  fhall  judge  at  the  laft  Dav. — If  we  have  done 
any  Thing  v.'orthy  the  Ccnfures  of  the  Church,  why  do  not 
the  Right  Reverend  the  Bifliops  call  us  to  a  publick  Account .? 
If  not,  why  do  they  not  conicfs  and  own  us  ?  It  is  well  we 
can  appeal  to  the  great  Bifliopof  Souls.  They  fay,  it  is  not 
regular  cur  going  out  into  the  Highways  and  Hedges,  and 
compelling  poor  Sinners  to  come  in.  We  ought  notj^to  be- 
feech  them  to  be  recoqciled  to  GOD.  They  defire  to  know 
by  what  Authority  we  preach,  and  ask,  what  Sign  flieweft 
thou  that  thou  dolt  thefc  Tilings  ?  But,  alas !  v;hat  further 
Sign  would  tlicy  require  ?  We^  went  not  into  the  Fields  till 
we  were  excluded  the  Churclies  ;  And  has  not  GOD  fet  his 
Seal  to  our  Minjftry  in  an  extraordinary  Manner  ?  Have  uot 
many  that  were  fpiritually  Blind  received  their  Sight? 
Many  that  have  been  Lame  flrengthened  to  run  the  Way  of 
GOD's  Commandments  ?  Have  not  the  Deaf  heard  \  The 
I.epcrs  been  clcanfed  \  The  Dead  raifeu  ?    And  the  Poor  had 

,     the 


at  Bexley,  and  London.  1 1 

the  Gofpel  preached  unto  them  ?  That  thefe  notable  Mira- 
cles have  been  wrought,  not  in  our  own  Names,  or  by  our 
own  Power,  but  in  the  Name  and  by  the  Power  of  'Jefus  of 
Nazareth^  cannot  be  denied.  And  yet  they  require  a  Sign  ? 
But  verily  there  JJjall  no  other  Sign  be  given  to  this  evil  and 
adulterous  Generation  / 

Preached  in  the  Afternoon  to  about  300  People  in  Juftice 
Delamot's  Yard,  and  in  the  Evening  on  Blackheath^  to  up- 
wards of  20000,  on  thefe  'Words,  And  they  cajt  him  out. 
I  recommended  to  the  People  the  Example  of  the  blind  Beg- 
gar, reminded  them  of  preparing  for  the  gathering  Storm, 
and  exhorted  them  in  the  Name  of  Chrijl  Jefus  to  follow  the 
Example  of  this  meek  Lamb  of  GOD,  fuppofing  my  Ene- 
mies fhould  think  that  they  did  GOD  good  Service  to  kill 
me.  I  dread  nothing  more  than  the  falfe  Zeal  of  my  Friends 
in  a  fuffering  Hour.  — God  grant  we  may  learn  when  tue  are 
reviled^  not  to  revile  again^  vjhen  we  fiiffer  may  we  threaten 
not^  but  commit  cur  Sauls  into  the  Hands  of  him  that  judgetb 
rightco-ufiy. — Lord^  endue  us  tuith  the  Spirit  of  thy  firji  Mar- 
tyr^ St.  Stephen,  that  zve  ?nay  pray  tny?  carne/Ily  even  for  our 
iJery  Murderers  ! 

London. 

Monday  and  Tuefday^  June  25.  Came  hither  privately 
lad  Night. — Went  to  a  Love-Feaft  in  Fetter-Lane,  and  in- 
tended fetcing  out  the  next  Morning,  being  greatly  impor- 
tuned thereto,  for  Glouccjier  in  the  Stage-Coach,  but  there 
were  no  vacant  Places. — Spent  the  Day  in  writing  Letters, 
and  fettling  fome  Afl'airs. — Preached  in  the  Evening  to  about 
as  many  as  ufual  at  Kennington  Comtnon,  with  great  and  vifi- 
ble  Siicceis. — Spent  a  delightful  Hour  with  many  Chriftiaa 
Friends. — Took  Coach  about  1 1  at  Night,  and  reached  Ci- 
rencejier  by  10  the  next  Evening.  Jujlly  may  J  fay,  I  am  a 
Stranger  and  Pilgrim  upon  Earth  :  For  I  have  here  no  conti- 
n\-ij7g  City. — May  I  always  be  prfparing  my f elf  for  that  zvhich 
is  to  come,  a  City  not  ?nadi'  with  Hands  eternal  in  the  Hea- 
vens^ whofe  Builder  and  M'^^er  is  God  / 


C  2  Cire?tceftet\ 


1 2      Mr.  W  H  I  T  E  F  I  E  L  D  -J  Joumct 
Cirenccfter,  and  Ghuceftcr. 

JVednefday^  June  26.  Waited  on  the  Minifter  of  the  Pa- 
rifli,  and  asked  him  for  the  Ufe  of  his  Pulpit,  but  he  refufed 
it,  becaufe  I  had  not  my  Letters  pf  Orders. — Went  to  pub- 
lick  Worfhip  at  1 1.  and  preached  to  about  3000  People  in  a 
Field  near  the  Town  about  12. — Wss  afterwards  viilted  by 
feveral  gracious  Souls  of  the  BaptijTs  Congregation,  who 
brought  me  five  Guineas  for  the  Orphan-houfe,  fet  out  about 
4  in  the  Afternoon,  and  reached  Gloucejhr  about  '  in  the 
Evening,  to  the  inexprefTible  Joy  of  many. — The  late  Re- 
port of  my  being  dead  has  only  ferv'd  to  make  my  prefent 
Viuts  more  welcome. — Thus  all  Things  wnrk  together  for  good, 
to  thofe  that  love  God — Soon  after  I  came  into  Town,  I  vi- 
fited  the  Society,  and  expounded  for  the  Space  of  an  Hour 
to  more  People  than  the  Room  (tho'  it  was  largej  would  con- 
tain. BlelTed  be  GOD  all  heard  the  Word  moll  gladly.— I 
now  fee  the  Seed  fown  when  I  was  here  laft,  was  not  all  fown 
on  ftony  thorny  Ground  :  No,  fome  has  been  received  int(? 
honeft  and  good  Hearts. — This  is  the  Lord's  doing — ,";;  him  he 
all  the  Glory  through  J  ejus  Chrtjh 

Ghuceftcr. 

TJmrfday^  'June  27.  Preached  in  the  Morning  to  about 
1000  People  in  my  Brother's  Field. — Went  to  publick  Pray- 
ers at  the  Cathedral.  —  Waited  upon  the  Bilhop,  who  receiv- 
ed me  very  civilly. — Vifited  fome  iick  Perfons  in  the  After- 
noon who  fent  for  me. — Preached  at  Night  to  upwards  of 
3000. — GOD  was  pleafed  to  give  me  uncommon  Freedom 
and  Liberty  in  fpeaking. — Much  Power  from  above  was  a- 
nionglt  us. — Great  Numbers  were  melted  into  Tears,  and 
moft,  I  believe,  went  convidted  away.  Thanks  he  to  Gcdy 
M'ho  thus  giveth  us  the  Vi£iory  thro   our  Lord  Jffus  Chrijl. 


Gloucefferj   and  Painjkvick. 

Friday^  June  29.  Preached  in  my  Brother's  Field  in  tlie 
Morning  to  a  large  and  very  affe6\ed  Congregation,  went  to 
tiie  Cathedral  Service,    vifited   Ibme  religious  Friends,  and 

preached 


at  Palnfwick,  and  Stroud,  C^c,  i^ 

preached  (at  the  earneft  Invitation  of  many  who  had  heard 
me  before)  to  above  3000  Souls  in  Palnfwlck-Street.  AH 
was  hufh'd  and  filent.  The  Divine  Prefencewas  amongftus. 
Many  Children  of  God luere  fed  xv'ith  the  fincere  Milk  of  the 
Word.  All  rejoiced  to  fee  me  alive  again,  and  thanked 
GOD  abundantly  in  m}'  Behalf.  //  well  becoineth  the  Righte-' 
CHS  to  be  thankful. 

Stroud^   and  Ghiiceftcr. 

Saturday^  jfune  30.  Spent  the  Evening  with  fome  ChriHi- 
an  Friends,  lay  at  Painfuiick^  and  preached  about  10  in  the 
Morning  to  near  2000  People,  in  the  BowUng-Grecn  belong- 
ing to  the  George  Inn'ni  Stroud.,  3  Miles  from  thence. — GOD 
was  with  us. — After  Sermon,  I  went  in  Company  with 
many  Friends  to  Gloucejier.,  where  I  preached  at  7  in 
the  Evening  to  a  larger  and  more  affefted  Congregation 
than  ever.  Bleffed  he  God.,  the  JVord  has  free  Courfe. — Oh  1 
that  it  may  run  and  he  glorified  through  all  the  Earth. 

Gloucejier^  Raudivick,  and  Hampton  Co?nmon. 

Sunday.,  July  I.  Preached  at  7  in  the  Morning  to  a  much 
increafed  Audience  in  my  Brother's  Field. — Breakfafted  at 
Gloucejlcr,  and  preaclied  at  1 1  in  the  Morning,  read  Prayers 
in  the  Afternoon,  and  preached  again  in  the  Afternoon  at 
Randwick  Church,  about  7  Miles  from  Gloiicejler.  The 
Church  was  quite  full,  about  2000  were  in  the  Church-yard, 
who,  by  taking  down  the  Window  that  lay  behind  the  Pulpit, 
had  the  Convenicncy  of  hearing.   Many  wept  forely. 

After  Evening  Service  I  hafted  to  Hampton  Common.,  and 
to  my  great  Surprize,  found  no  lefs  than  20000  on  Horfe- 
back  and  Foot  ready  to  hear  me.  New  Strength  was  im- 
parted to  me  from  above,  I  fpoke  with  greater  Freedom 
than  I  had  done  all  the  Day  before.  About  12  at  Night 
I  reached  Gloucefier  much  frefher  than  A\'hen  I  left  it  in  the 
Morning.  Surely  Jefus  Chrijl  is  a  gracious  Majhr.  They 
that  wait  upon  himjliall  renew  their  Strength. 

Monday^t  July  1.  Preached  this  Morning  in  my  Brother's 
Field   to  a  larger  Audience  than  ever. — Found   my  Spirits 

much 


14      Mr.  W  H  I  T  EF  I  E  L  D  'j  Jourfial 

much  cxhaufted  by  Ycfterday's  Labours,  but  notwithftana  ■ 
ing  a  fvvcet  Power  was  amongft  us. — After  Dinner  I  went  to 
Tzveksknj^  where  I  found  much  Oppofition  had  been  made 
hy  the  Bailiff  againfc  my  coming. — ^Upon  my  Entrance  into 
the  Town,  I  found  tlie  People  much  alarmed,  and  as  foon 
as  I  was  got  into  the  Inn,  four  Confiahlcs  came  to  attend  me. 
But  a  Lawyer  being  there  who  was  my  Friend,  he  de- 
manded the  Conflablc's  Warrant,'  who  being  not  able  to  pro- 
duce   one,    he   fcnt    them    about  their  Bufmefs.     At  eight 

o^Clock  I  went  into  a  Field  lent  me  by  one  Air.  H ds^ 

which  lay  v/ithout  the  Liberties  of  the  Town. — My  Audi- 
ence confifted  of  2  or  3000  People. — I  fpoke  with  Freedom, 
and  mod-,  as  I  afterwards  heiird,  went  fatisfied  and  affected 
2.way. — The  Remainder  of  the  Evening  I  fpent  moft  agree- 
ably with  many  Chriftian  Friends  who  accompanied  me  on 
my  Journey. — I  perxrcived  a  frefh  Supply  of  Spirits  to  be  gi-» 
Ycn  me  from  above,  oiidrfJQiccd  that  God  lead  tne  on  from 
coiiquer'ing  to  conquer, 

TweJIikiry,  and  Evejlmn. 

Tue.jday^  July  3.  Waited  this  Morning  upon  Mr.  f — Sy 
©ne  of  the  Town- Bailiffs,  and  asked  him  in  Mceknefs, 
*'  For  what  Reafon  Ix  fent  the  Conffablcs  after  me.^"  He 
faid,  "  It  W.1S  the  Determination  not  of  himfelf,  but  of  ail 
*••  the  Council." — He  tlien  faid,  "  The  People  were  noify, 
"  and  rcfie6fed  upon  tlie  Bailiffs,"  I  anfwered,  *'  tiiat  was 
**  owing  to  their  fcndin/  the  Conftables  with  their  Staves  to 
*'  apprehend  mc,  when  i  fnould  come  into  Town." — Upon 
this  he  began  to  be  a  little  angry,  and  told  me,  "  A  certain 
"•  Judge  faid,  he  would  take  me  up  as  a  Vagrant,  was  I  to 
*-*  preach  near  him."  I  anfwered,  "  he  was  very  welcome 
''  to  do  as  he  picafed.  But  I  apprehended  no  Magiftrate  had 
**  Pov.^er  to  ftop  my  Preaching  even  in  the  Streets  if  I  thought 
*■*  proper."  ''  No,  Sir,  fays  he,  if  you  preach  here  To- 
*'  morrow,  yo-a  ihdW  have  the  Con ft:iblcs  to  attend  you." — 
After  this  I  took  my  Leave,  telling  him,  *'  I  thought  it  my 
*^  Duty  as  a  Miniiter  to  inform  him,  that  Magiftrates  were 
*'  intended  to  be  a  Terror  to  evil  Doers,  and  not  to  thofe 
*'  v.-ho  do  well.  And  I  defired,  lie  would  be  as  careful  to 
♦,'  appoint  Conflables  to  attend  at  the  nti^i  Horfc  Race,  B.il!\ 
•^"^  iind  Affcmbliesj  ks.:.'' 

Abo... 


at  Tweksbury,    and  Eveiliam.  i^ 

About  nine  in  the  Morning  we  left  Tweksbury,  [and  reach- 
ed Evejham  about  Noon. — The  poor  People  were  much  a- 
larmed,  hearing  I  had  been  abufed  at  Tweksbury. — And  the 
Ma^iftrates  of  Eyefiam  had  thrcatned  to  apprehend  me  if  I 
preached  within  their  Liberties. — Upon  this,  Mr.  Benjamin. 
Seivard  thought  it  advifeable  to  preach  near  his  Houfe,  which 
I  did  from  a  Wall  to  near  looo  Hearers,  and,  I  believe,  to 
good  EfFect. — At  my  Return  to  the  Inn,  I  could  not  but  ob- 
ferve  to  my  Friends  how  gradually  the  Oppofition  increafed. 
— At  prefent,  it  feems  to  be  like  the  Cloud  which  Elijah's 
Servant  faw. — No  bigger  than  a  Man's  Hand  ;  but,  by  and 
by,  it  will  gather  apace,  and  break  upon  the  Church  of  GOD« 
But  the  God  ivhom  we  ferve  is  able  to  deliver  us. 

About  8  at  Night  I  preached  again  from  the  fame  Place,  but 
had  the  Satisfaiftion  of  feeing  my  Morning  Congregation  tre- 
bly increafed — After  this  I  went  to  ?.  Friend's  Houfe  to  eat 
Bread,  and  came  to  my  Inn,  wifning  that  all  felt  the  Love  of 
God  filed  abroad  in  their  Hearts,  as  1  did  then. 

Evefiam,  PerJIm-e,  T^vekslniry,  and  Glocefter, 

Wednejday,  July  4.  Preached  by  7  in  the  Morning  at  Eve^ 
Jha7?i  and  perceived  the  Peoples  Hearts  moft  nearly  knit  to  me — 
Breakfafied  at  an  Plofpitable  ^inker's  Houfe,  and  went  in 
Company  with  about  30  to  Perjhore,  where  I  was  kindly  In- 
vited by  Mr.  P^r-^j,  the  prefent  Incumbent. — He  gave  me  the 
Meeting  as  I  was  going  to  the  Church — I  read  Prayers,  and 
preached  with  Power  — Several  Clergymen  were  prefent,  and 
after  Sermon  Mr.  Parks  fent  me  his  Thanks,  and  gave  ma 
another  Invitation  to  Pcrjhore.  The  Inhabitants  were  much 
afte6fed,  and  I  was  receiv'd  gladly  into  fome  of  their  Houfes, 
and  requefted  to  come  to  Others. —  About  live  in  tJie  Evening 
I  took  an  affectionate  Leave  of  Evejha?n  Friends,  and  in  Com- 
pany with  about  120  on  Hor^ch-Ack  went  t.o  Tweksbury,  and 
never  faw  a  Town  fo  much  alarmed. — The  Streets  were  crowd- 
ed with  People  from  all  Parts — 1  rode  immediately  thro'  the 
Town,    preached    to  about    60CO  Plearers  in  a  Field  lent  us 

by  Mr.  P- ,  but  fav/  no  Conrtables  that  came  either  to 

moleft  or  attend  on  me  — My  hour  is  not  yet  co?ne — By  and  by 
it  will  be  given  me  not  only  to  believe  on.,  hut  to  fuffer  for  Chrijl's 
Name  fa  ki — Lord  grant  I  may  not  deny  birn  in  any  vjife. 

Immediately 


1 6     Mr,  \y  H  I  T  E  F  I  E  L  D  V  jotimal 

Irnmediatcly  after  Sermon  I  took  Horfe,  and  reached  GIou^ 
cejler  near  Midnight.  The  Weather  was  very  pleafant.-— • 
GOD  was  pleafed  to  refrefh  me  with  frefh  Communications 
from  himfelf,  and  we  went  on  our  Way  rejoicing  in  the 
Lord^  who  ftill  caufes  us  to  triumph  in  every  Place.  Oh  / 
for  ever  adored  he  his  free  Grace  in  ChriJ}  ! 

Glouceflei\  and  Chefford, 

Thurfday^  'July  5.  Preached  about  10  in  the  Morning,  as 
ufual,  to  a  numerous  and  exceedingly  afFe^led  Audience. — 
My  own  Heart  v/as  full  of  Love  to  my  dear  Countrymen, 
and  they  fincerely  fympathifcd  with  me. — Many  Friends  after 
this  came  to  take  Leave  of  me,  and  told  me  what  GOD  had 
done  for  their  Souls. — Having  wrote  my  Journal^  and  dif- 
patched  my  private  Bufmefs,  after  joining  in  Prayer,  and 
imging  with  many,  I  left  Gkiicejler.  About  5  in  the  Evening 
I  reached  Chafford  Cojnmon^  at  7  preached  till  it  was  near  dark 
to  upwards  of  IGOOO  People. — A  glorious  Encreafe  fince  I  was 
there  laft. — Bleffed  be  the  Lord  God  of  Ifrael,  ^vh^  dcUghuih 
in  the  Profperity  of  his  Servant, 

Brifiol. 

Friday,  July  6.  Lay  at  the   Houfe   of  Mr.  JFa- n,  a 

Clothier,  2  Mik-s  from  Chf_fford.~Rofc  at  6,  after  Family 
Duty,  and  taking  a  little  Breakfaft',  we  fet  forwards  towards 
Brijiol. — At  Petty  France  fome  Friends  met  us,  afterwards 
more  joined  us,  and  before  we  came  within  2  Miles  of  Bri- 
J}ol,  our  Company  encreafcd  very  confiderably. — The  People 
were  much  rejoiced  at  the  News  of  my  coming. —  Their 
'Hearts  fcemed  to  leap  for  Joy,  and  many  Thankfgivings 
■were  rendered  to  GOD  in  my  Behalf.  The  Bells  rang  un- 
known to  me. — I  was  received  as  an  Angel  of  GOD. — At  7 
in  the  Evening  1  preached  at  Baptijl  Mills,  to  about  6  or 
7000  People,  who  were  much  melted  by  the  Power  ot  GOD's 
Word. — /  hope  they  zvill  receive  a  fecond  Benefit. 

Saturday,  July  7.  Brcakfafted  with  Mr.  L y.   Settled 

fome  Affairs  concerning  our  Brethren,  and  had  a  ufefiil  Con- 
ference about  many  Things  with  my  Honoured  Friend  Mr. 

Joht 


at  Brirtol.  17 

John  Wejlty. — Din'd  at  my  Sifter's,  gave  the  Sacrament  to  a. 
ilck  Sifter,  paid  another  Vifit  upon  a  Matter  of  Importance — ■ 
Preached  -^xBaptiJ}  Mills  to  near  the  fame  Number  of  People  as 
lafl:  Night,and  found  t\\zt  Brijlol  had  great  Reafonto  blefsGod 
for  the^Miniftry  of  Mr.  John  JVepy —  The  Congregation  I 
obferved  to  be  much  more  ferious  and  affefted  than  when  I  left 
them — And  their  loud  and  repeated  Amcns^  which  they  put 
lip  to  every  Petition,  as  well  as  the  Examplarlnefs  of  their 
Converfation  in  common  Life,  plainly  fhew  that  they  have 
not  received  the  Grace  of  God  in  vain.  Ye  Hypocrites^  ye  can 
difcern  the  Face  of  the  Sky — But  how  is  it  that  you  cannot 
difcern  the  Sign  ofthefe  Times  ?  That  Good^  great' Good  is  done 
is  evident —  Either  this  is  done  by  an  Evil  or  good  Spirit — If 
you  fay  by  an  evil  Spirit^  I  anfiver  in  our  Lord'' s  own  IFords,  If 
Satan  be  divided  againji  Satan  how  can  his  Kingdo?n  ftand  ? 
If  by  a  good  Spirit^  why  do  not  the  Clergy^  and  the  rejl  of  the  Pha- 
rifees  believe  our  Report  ?  What  is  it  but  little  lefs  than  Blafphe- 
my  againji  the  Holy  Ghoji  to  impute  the  great  Work  that  has 
been  infojhort  a  Ti?ne  wrought  in  this  Ktngdo?n  to  Delufmt 
and  the  Power  of  the  Devil  ? 

Sunday,  July  8.  Preached  at  the  BoiuUng-Grcen  to  about 
1 0000  People,  greatly  afFefted  indeed. — About  11,  I  preached 
again  at  Hannam-Mount  to  near  as  many  Hearers,and  at  7  in 
theEveningto  about  20000at  Rofe-Green. — My  Power  I  find 
much  encreafed  fince  I  was  here  laft.— And  fuch  a  vifible  Al- 
teration in  the  Congregation  for  the  better,  therein  convinces 
me  more  and  more  that  GOD  is  with  us  of  a  Truth. — Js 
our  Oppofition  encreafes,  I  doubt  not  but  the  Manifcjiations  of 
God's  Prefence  amongjl  us  will  encrcofe  alfo. 

Monday,  July  9.  On  Thurfday  I  received  a  Letter  from 
the  Bifliop  of  Glouceftcr,  in  which  his  Lordfhip  afFeelionately 
admonifhed  me,  to  exercife  my  Authority  I  received  in  the 
Manner  it  was  given  me.  His  Lordfhip  being  of  Opinion* 
that  I  ought  to  preach  the  Gofpel  only  in  the  Congregation 
wherein  I  was  lawfully  appointed  thereunto. 

To-day  I  fent  his  Lordfhip  the  following  Anfwer, 

t3  Ihi 


i3      Mr.  Whitefiel  d's  "Journal 

T^he  Answer, 

My  Lcrd^ 

'  I  thank  youp  Lordfhip  for  your  Lordfhip's  kind  Letter. — 
'  My  frequent  Removes  from  Place  to  Place  prevented  my  an- 

*  fvi^ering  it  fooner. — I  am  greatly  obliged  to   your  Lordfhip, 

*  in  that  you  are  pleafed  to  watch  over  my  Soul,  and  to  cau- 

*  tion  meagainft  ad:ing  contrary  to  the  Commiflion  given  me 

*  at   Ordination. — But  if  the  Commiflion  vi^e  then    receive, 

*  obliges  us  to  preach  no  where  but  in  that  Parifh  which  is  com- 
'  m  It  ted  to  our  Care,  then  all   Perfons  adl:  contrary   to  their 

*  CommlfTion   when  they  preach   occafionally   in  any  ftrange 

*  Place. — And    confequently     your  Lordfliip  equally   offends 
'  when  ycu  Preach  out  of  your  own  Dioccfe. — As  for  inveigh- 

*  ing  againft  the  Clergy  (without  a  Caufc)  I  deny  the  Charge. 

*  What  I   lay   I  am  ready  to    make  good   when  ever  your 

*  Lordihip  plcafes.      Let   thofe  that   bring    Reports   to   your 
'  Lordfhip  about  my   Preaching  be   brought  Face  to  Face, 

*  and  I  am  ready  to  give  them  an  Anfvver. — St.  Paul  exhorts 

*  Timothy,  not  to  j-eceive  an-  Acciijat'ion  againji  an  Elder  under 

*  two    or   three  Witneffes.      And   even   Nicodemus   could    fay, 

*  the  Law  fuifcred  no  Man  to  he  ccnde?nned  unheard.  —  I  fhall 
'  only  add,     that  I  hope  your  Lordihip   will  infped  into  the 

*  Lives    of  your  other  Clergy,  and   cenfurc  them   for    being 

*  Ovcr-remifs.,  as   much    as  you  cenfure  me  for  being  Over- 

*  righteous. — It  is  their  falling  from  their   Articles,    and  not 

*  preaching  the  Truth  as  it  is  in  Jefus.,  that  has  excited  the 
'  prefcnt  Zeal  of  (whom  they  in  'Derifion  call)  the  Methodiji 

*  Preachers.     Dr.  Slebbing's    Sermon,    (for  which  I    thank 

*  your  Lordfhip)  confirms  me  more  and  more  in  my  Opinion, 

*  chat  I  ought  to  be  inllant  in  Seafon  and  out  of  Seafon.  For  to 

*  me,he  feemstoknowno  more  of  the  true  Nature  of  Regenera  - 

*  tion,  tlian  Nicodemus  diti  when  he  came  to  Jejns  by  Niglit— 

*  Your  Lordfiiip  may  obfcrve,  that  he  docs  not  fpcak  a  Word 

*  of  Original  Sin,  or  the  dreadful  Confcqucnces  of  our  Fall  in 
'  Adam.,  upon  which  the  Dodfrinc  of  the  New-bi:th  h  cntire- 
*.ly  founded.     No  ;  like  other  polite  Preachers,    he  fecms  to 

*  think,  in  the  very  Beginning  of  his  Difcourfc,  that  St.  Paul's 

*  Dcfcription  of  the:  Wickednefs  of  the  Heathen  is  only  to  be 

*  rtferrcd  to  them  of  paft  Ages.. — Whereas  I  affirm  we  are  all 

*  ijicluded  as  much  under  tiie  .Guilt  and  Confequences  of  Sin 


at  Briflol.  19 

*  as  they  were,  nnd   if  any  Man  preach  any  otiier  Dodrinc, 

*  he  fhall  bear  his  Punifhmentwhofbever  he  be. — Again,  My 

*  Lord,  the  Doctor  entirely  miftakes  us  when  we  talk  of  the 
^  jenfible  Operations    of  the  Holy  Ghoji. — He  iinderflands  us 

*  jull  as  thofe  carnal  Jews  underftood  Jefus  Chriji,  who,  wh.en 

*  our  Lord  talked  of  giving  them  that  Bread  which  came  down 

*  from  Heaven,  faid.  How  can  this    Man  give  us  his  Flejh  to 

*  eat  F — Indeed  I  know  not  that  we  do  ufe  the  Word  Senftllei 

*  when  w^e  are  talking  of  the  Operations  of  the  Spirit  of 
'  GOD. — But  if  we  do,  we  do  not  mean,  that  GOD'sSpi- 
'  rit  does  manifeft  itfelf  to  our  Senfes,  hut  that  it  may  be  pcr- 
'  ceived   by  the  Soul,    as  really,  as  is  any  fenfible  ImprefTion 

*  made  upon  the  Body.  But  to  difprove  this  the  Dodor 
'  brings  our  Lord's  Allufion  to  the  Wind  in  the  third  of  St. 
'  Joh?!,  which  is  one  of  the  beft  Texts  he  could  urge  to  prove 
'  it.  For  if  the  Analogy  of  our  Lord^'S  Difcourfe  be  carried 
'  on,  we  fhall  find  it  amounts  to  thus  much. —  That  altho* 
'  the  Operations  of  the  Spirit  of  GOD  can  no  more  be  ac- 
'  counted  for,  than  how  the  Wind  cometh  and  whither  it  go- 
'  eth  ;  yet  may  they  be  as  eafily  felt  by  the  Soul  as  the  Wind 
'  may  be  felt  by  the  Body. — My  Lord,  indeed  we  fpeak  what 
'  we  know. — But,  fays  the  Doftor,  "  Thefe  Men  have  no 
'  Proof  to  offer  for  their  inward  ManiL-ftations."  What 
'  Proof,  my  Lord,  does  the  Do£lor  require,  would  he 
'  have     us    raife    dead  Bodies    ?         Have     we    not     done 

*  greater  Things  than  thefe  ?  I  fpeak  with  all  Humi- 
'  lity,  has  not  GOD  by  our  Miniftry  raifed  many  dead  Souls 
'  to  a  fpiritual  Life. — Verily,  if  Men  will  not  believe  the  Evi- 

*  dence    GOD    has    given  that  he  fent    us,     neither  would 

*  they  believe  tho'  one  rofe  from  the  Deal. — Befides,  my 
'  Lord,  the  Dodlor  charges   us    v/ith   Things  we  are  entire 

*  Strangers  to,  fuch  as  the  denying  Men  the  Ufe  of  GOD's 

*  Creatures.-- Encouraging  Abfiincnce,  Pra)er,  i^c.  to  thcNe- 
'  gitSt  of  the  Duties    of  our    Stations.      Lord   lay  not    this 

*  Sin  to  his  Charge.  Again,  he  f.iys,  "  I  fuppofe  Mr.  Ben- 
^^  jamin  Scvjard  to  be  a  Perfon  believing  in  Chrift^  and  hlame- 
*'  lefs  in   his  Converfafion,  before  what  I  call  his  Oonverfion. 

*  But  this  is  a  direct  Untruth. — For  it  was  thro'  the  Want  of 

*  a  living  Faith  in  Jejus  Chriji^  which  he  now  has,  that  he 
'  was  not  a  Chriftian  before,  but  a  meer  Moralift.— Your 
'  Lordfhip  knows  that  our  Article  fays,  "  Works  done  with- 
*'  out  the  Spirit  of  GOD,  and  true  Faith  in  Jefus  Chriji 
^'  have  the  Nature  of  Sin,"     And  fuch  were  all  the  ^Vorks 

D  2  *  done 


20     Mr.  Whitefield'^  Journal 

*  done  by  Mr.  Benjamin  Seward  before  the  Time  mentioned 
'  in  my  'Journal. — Again,  my  Lord,  the  Docftor  reprefents 
'  that  as  mv  Opinion   concerning  Quakers  in   general,  which 

*  I  only  meant  of  thofe  I  converfed  witliin  particular. — But 
'  the  Doctor,  and  the  reft  of  my  Reverend  Brethren,  are  wel- 
'  come  to  judge  me  as  they  pleafe. — Tet  a  little  while,  and  we 
'  Jhall  all  appear  before  the  great  Shepherd  of  our  Souls. — There, 
'  there  my  Lord,  fnall  it  be  determined  who  are  his  true  Mini- 
'  fters,  and  who  are  only  Wolves  in  Shecps  Cloathing. — Our 
'  Lord,  I  believe,  will  not  be  aftiamed  to  confef  us  pubiickly  in 
'  that  hay. — I  pray  God  we  all  may  approve ourfehcs  fuch 

*  faithful  Minifters  of  the  New  Tejiament^  that  we  may  be  able 

*  to  lift   up  our  Heads  with  Boldnefs. — As   for  declining  the 

*  Work  in  which  I  am  engaged,  my  Blood  runs  chill  at 
'  the  very  Thoughts  of  it. — I  am   as  much  convinced,   it  is 

*  my  Duty  to  acl  as  1  do,  as  that  the  Sun  fhines  at  Noon- 
'  Day. — I   can    forefee  the    Confequences  very  well. — They 

*  have  already  in  one  Senfe  thruft  us  out  of  the  Synagogues. 
'  By  and  by  they  will  think  it  is  doing  GOD  Service  to  kill 
'  us. — But,  my  Lord,    if  you  and  the  refl  of  the  Bifhops  cait 

*  U3  out,  our  great  and  common  Mafter  will  take  us  up. — 
'  Tho'   all  Men  fliould    deny  us,    yet    will    not    he.-^And 

*  however  you  may  cenfure  us  as  evil  Doers,  and  Difturbcrs 
'  of  the  Peace,  yet  if  we  do  fufFer  for  our  prefent  Way  of  ad- 
'  ing,  your  Lordfhip  at  the  Great  Day  will  find,  that  wefuf- 

*  fer  only  for  Rlghteoufncfs  Sake^     In  PatiCnce  therefore  do  I 

*  poUels  my  Soul. 1    willingly  tarry  the  Lord's  Leifure.---- 

*  In  the  mean  while  I  fliall  continually  bear  your  Lordfliip's 
'  Favours  upon  my  Heart,   and  endeavour  to  behave,  fo  as  to 

*  fuhfcribc  ni)  felf, 

'  My  Lord, 

'  Tour  Lordjhips  obedient  Son, 
*  Jnd  obliged  Servant^ 


George  Whitefield, 


at  Briftol.  2t 

Tucfday,    July  lO.     Preached   Yeflerday   Evening  at  the 

Jir'ick-Tard  to  about  8000  People. Dined  to-day  with  my 

honoured  Fellow- Labourer,  Mr.  Wejlcy^  and  many  other 
Friends  at  Two  Mill- Hill  in  Kingfivocd^  and  preached  after- 
wards to  feveral  Thoufand  People,  and  Colliers,  in  the 
School-Houfe,  which  has  been  carried  on  fo  fuccefsfully,  that 

the  Roof  is  ready  to  be  put  up, The  Delign  I  think  is  good. 

Old  as  well  as  young  are  to  be  in{l:ru(5led.  A  great  and  a 
vifible  Alteration  is  made  in  the  Behaviour  of  the  Colliers.  In^ 
Head  of  Curfmg  and  Swearing,  they  are  heard  to  fmg  Hymns 
about  the  Woods  ;  and  the  rifnig  Generation,  I  hope,  will 
be  a  Generation  of  Chriftians. — They  feem  much  affected  by 
the  Word. — They  melt  into  Tears,  and  are  obferved  to  at- 
tend the  Churches  and  Societies  when  Mr.  JVef.ey  is  abfent 
from  them. — The  Profpecl  of  their  future  Welfare  filled  me 
wilh  Joy  unfpeakable. — They  took  a  moft  affedionate  Leave 
of  me. — Lord  put  thou  their  Tears  into  thy  Bottle  ! 

Went  immediately  after  Sermon  was  ended  with  Mr. 
Wejley^  and  feveral  other  Friends,  to  Bath^  and  preached 
there  to  about  3000  People  at  7  in  the  Evemng — It  r  uicd?^ 
little  all  the  while,  but  the  People  were  very  patient  and 
attentive,  and  I  never  had  fuch  Power  given  me  to  fpeak 
to  the  polite  ScofFers  before — O/;,  that  the  Scales  ivere  removed 
from  the  Eyes  of  their   Minds  ! 

Heard  to*  Day  the  Town-Clerk  of  Briflol  did  my  Brother 
IVefey  and  me  tlie  Honour,  to  defire  the  Grand-Jury,  at 
their  Quarter-Seflions,  to  prefent  our  Meetings,  and  to  hav^c 
the  Riot-Aft  read,  but  they  did  not  regard  him. — Nay  one, 
that  was  called  to  ferve  on  the  Petty  Jury,  offered  to  fub- 
mit  to  any  Fine,  rather  than  do  any  thing  againft  us ;  who, 
he  faid,  were  true  Servants  of  Jefus  Chriji — May  he  ?neet 
■with  that  Reward  which  our  Lord  has  promifed  to  all  thofe 
that  Jhall  confefs  him  before  Men  I  The  Hour  of  Perfccii- 
tion  is  not  yet  C07ne —  Thefe  are  fome  diflant  Proofs  of  it. 
I  really  xvondcr  it  comes  on  no  fofier,  Satan  why  f.eepcft 
thou  ? 


Bath  and   Brljlol 

Wednefday,  July  1 1,  Preached  at  1 1  in  the  Morning, 
to  a  larger  Audience  than  laft  Night,  and  almoft  with  equal 
Power — Haftened  to  Brijiolj  and  preached  in  the  Evening 

at 


22     Mr.  WniTEFiELD'i  Journal 

at  Baptifi-Mills  to  a  large  Congregation.  It  rained  much — • 
But,  blejed  he  GOD,  the  People's  Hearts  are  fo  far  hu 
f.iicnced  hy  the  Gofpel  ^  Chrift,  that  they  care  hut  little 
ivhe\her  it  rains  or  Jhlnes. 

Alter  this,  my  Brother  Wejley  and  I  v.'cnt  to  the  Women 
and  Men's  Societies,  fettled  fome  Affairs,  and  united  the 
two  leading  Societies  together — A  great  Harmony  andSvveet- 
nefs  of  Soul  was  amongft  us  all — My  Heart  was  full  of  Love 
for  them,  and  they  wept  mofl:  forcly  at  my  F'arewcl-Exhor- 
tation  and  Prayer — Hoiv  can  I  he  thankful  enough  fo  GOD, 
for  fending  me  hither  to  fee,  that  the  Seed  has  been  foivn 
in  good  Ground,  and  that  hy  the  Minijiry  of  Mr.  '\\^efley 
it  has  received  great  Increafe.  May  it  Jlill  increafe  ivlth  all 
the  Increafe  cfGod, 

Unirfday,  July  12.  Was  hufied  moll  of  the  Day  in  fitting; 
a  Sermon  for  the  PrefsO"  the  Indwelling  of  the  Spirit,  which  I 
would  recommend  to  all.- — Preached  in  tlie  Evening  to  8 
or  9000  People  in  the  BotvUng-Grccn,  with  great  Freedom 
and  Power,  and  afterwards  (i^ent  an  Hour  moft  delightfully 
with  feme  Chriftian  Friends. — Bleffedhe  God  for  the  Com?nu- 
Tiion  cf  Saints  /  Oh  !  ivhen  f/>all  I  he  tranflatcdto  the  Comnni- 
nion  of  the  Spirits  of  juji  Men  made  perfect  !  As  the  Hart 
fanteth  after  the  fFater  Brooks,  fo  doth  my  Soul  long  after  that 
ferfeff  Fdhwjhip  vjith  the  Sons  if  God  ! 

Friday,  fuly  13.  Preaclied  my  Farewcl  Sermon  at  7  in  the 
Morning  to  a  weeping  and  deeply  affccled  Audience. — My 
Heart  was  full,  and  Tcontinued  near  two  Hours  in  Prayer 
and  Preaching. — The  poor  People  fhed  many  Tears,  and  fent 
up  Thoufands  of  Prayers  in  my  Behalf,  and  would  fcarcelet 
me  go  away. — Their  Mites  they  moft  chearfully  contributed 
to  the  School-Houfe  at  Kingfivood,  and  proved,  I  think,  to  a 
Demonftration,  that  they  had  not  received  the  Word  of  God 
in  vain.  Bleffed  he  God  for  feeing  this  Increafe  of  his  Mercy. 
Bleffcd  be  God  for  7ny  coming  hither  to  behold  feme  Fruits  of  viy 
Labours.  Adany  Souls  have  been  ftrengthcned  and  comfort- 
ed, many  convinced  of  Sin,  and  myfelf  alf>  n)ore  eftablifncd 
and  ftrong  in  the  Lord  — Ai  Oppcfitions  abound,  fo  do  my 
Conflations  much  more  abound  !  Who  is  fo  good  a  Majlcr  as 
Jcfus  Chrif  .^ 

Retired  after  Sermon  to  vent  my  Heart,  which  was  ready 
£0  buril  With    a  Scnfeof  GOD's  cfpctial,  difiinguifning,  re- 

j^catcd 


at  Thornbury,  and  Gloucefter.  t% 

peated  Mercies. —  Dined  with  and  took  a  moft  affectionate 
Leave  of  a  whole  Roomful  of  weeping  Friends,  Set  out  about 
4  o'clock,  and  reached  Thornbury  about  8  in  the  Evening. — 
It  raining  exceeding  hard  moft  Part  of  the  Day,  there  were 
but  few  Country  People. — However,  I  preached  to  about  600 
from  a  Table  in  the  Street.      /  hope  God  gave  it  his  Blejfing. 

Hhornbury^  and  Gloucefter. 

Saturday,  July  14.  Preached  at  8  this  Morning  to  an  at- 
tentive Congregation. — Breakfafted  at  a  Quaker's,  and  reach- 
ed Gloucejler  with  my  honoured  Friend,  Mr.  John  Wejleyy 
and  fome  others,  by  3  in  the  Afternoon. — Went  to  the  Cathe- 
dral Prayers,  dined,  and  afterwards  preached  to  a  Congrega- 
tion a  third  Part  larger  than  I  have  had  in  this  Place  before. 
Bhjfed  be  God  wherever  I  go,  I  find  my  Audiences  are  always 
more  manerous  by  far  at  the  lajl  than  at  the  firji. — Lord  make 
me  truly  humble  and  thankful ! 

Sunday,  July  15.  Left  my  honoured  Friend,  Mr.  Wejley^ 
to  preach  to  about  7000  Souls  in  Gloucejler.  And  had  the 
Pleafure  afterwards  of  hearing  that  the  People  heard  him  glad- 
ly.— Preached  twice  in  Randwick  Church,  and  affifted  in  ad- 
miniftring  the  Sacrament  to  270  Communicants. — The  Con- 
gregations were  larger  than  when  I  preached  laft. — My  Body 
being  weak,  and  GOD  being  pleafed  to  withdraw  himfelf,  I 
fpoke  with  very  little  Power  in  the  Morning  ;  but  in  the  Af- 
ternoon, GOD  caufed  my  Strength  to  return  again,  and  I 
preached  with  much  Freedom  and  Power  in  the  Evening ;  and 
at  Hampton  Co?mnon,  I  v/as  enabled  10  lift  up  my  Voice  like  a 
Tiumpet,and  to  preach  to  about  20000  Souls. — All  which  be- 
haved with  great  P^everence  and  Devotion. — After  I  had  done 
I  received  frefh  Invitations  to  different  Places,  which  I  propof- 
ed  to  comply  with,  if  the  Lord  fhould  permit—Never  did  I  fee 
People  more  eager  after  the  Adilk  of  the  Word. — Their  Souls 
were  much  rejoiced  when  I  told  them  Mr.  John  Wefley  in- 
tended to  come  after  to  feed  them. — Lord  grant  he  may  be  pre- 
fcrrcd  before  me  ivherevcr  he  goes  ! 

Monday,  July  lb.  Lay  laft  Night  at   the  Houfe  of  Mr. 

K s  of  Ebly,    and  had  a  moft  comfortable  Time  of  it. — 

Went 


24     ■^^.  WhitefielcV  jGUrftal 

Went  to  Tedbury^  about  fix  Miles  from  thence,  having  been 
earneflly  invited  feveral  Times,  and  preached  at  Noon  to  a- 
bout  4D00  People. — Many  gracious  Souls  of  divers  Denomina- 
tions came  to  meet  me,  with  vi^hom  I  took  fwcet  Counfcl 
—The  Scoffers,  before  I  came,  had  threatened  to  do  fomething* 
— But  the  Povi^er  of  GOD's  Word  overcame  them. — Vifited 

in  the  Afternoon,  Mr.  O ■,  a  Baptift-Teacher,  and  went 

afterwards,  in  Company  with  feveral  Friends,  to  Mahiiihury  in 
Wiltftjire^  about  3  Miles  from  Tedhury^  whither  I  had  been 
invited  by  a  Letter,  figned  by  52  Perfons. — At  7  I  preached 
to  about  300oPeople,  who,  I  believe,  felt  the  Power  of  GOD's 
Word. — Much  Oppofition  had  been  made  by  the  Pharifees 
againft  my  coming. — And  the  Minifter  in  particular  had 
wrote  to  the  Church- warden  to  flop  me, — But  he  was  more 
noble. — Numbers,  as  I  heard  afterwards,  who  were  vaflly 
prejudiced  againft  me  by  lying  Reports,  w^ent  away  convinced 
that  I  fpoke  the  Words  of  Truth  and  Sobernefs. — Thou 
Jhalt  anfvjcr  for  me^   O  Lord  tny  God. 

Tuejday^  July  17.  Lay  with  my  Fellow-Travellers  at  the 
Houfe  of  Mr.  Line,  who  moft  gladly  received  us  for  our  Ma- 
tter's Sake. — I  had  a  Thorn  in  the  Flefh  fent  to  buffet  me,  was 
■weak  in  Body,  deferted  in  Mind,  and  felt  myfelf  to  be  what 
I  often  fay  we  all  are  by  Nature,  half  a  Devil,  and  half  a  Beaft-. 
— With  great  inward  Reludance  I  rofe  and  preached  to  about 
•2000  Souls  at  8  in  the  Morning,  then  I  retired  to  my  Bed 
again,  with  an  unfpeakable  Preflure  upon  my  Heart  till  Noon. 
— Was  fomething  better  after  Dinner,  and  much  reviv'd  to 
fee  what  an  eflcctual  Door  was  like  to  be  opened  in  JFilt- 
_/Z>/r^  for  Preaching  the  Gofpel — Went  and  paid  my  Rcfpe^ts 
to  the  chief  Magiflratc,  who  was  my  Friend,  and  reached 
C'lrenccjhr  about  fix  in  the  Evening. 

Herealfo  Men  bre::thcd  out  Threatnings  againfl  me,  but 
-were  not  impowered  to  put  them  in  Execution. —  Numbers 
came  from  Neighbouring  Towns. — My  Congregation  was  as 
large  again  as  when  I  preached  here  lall. —  God  enabled  me, 
weak  as  I  was,  to  fpeak  boldly,  as  I  ought  to  fpeak —  Every 
Thing  was  carried  on  with  Decency  and  Order,  and  mv  in- 
'ward  Comforts  began  to  return  again  -^God  will  not  always 
be  chiding,  neither  ke^peth  He  his  Anger  far  ever — Mow  hea- 
vily do  I  drive  when  God  takes  off?ny  Chariot  JVhecls.  O  that 
I  may  learn  to  be  meek  and  loivly  in  my  ovjn  Eyes  — Lord  gi-vi; 
me  Humility^  or  Ipcrijh. 

Circncefier^ 


at  Abingdon  nnd  Baiingftoke.  i^ 

Cirencefter^  and  Abingdon. 

Wedyiefclay^  July  l8.  Found  more  than  ever  the  Truth  of 
the  wife  Man's  Saying,  Wo  be  to  him  that  :s  alone ^  for  when 
he  falleth  he  hath  not  another  to  lift  him  up. — Breakfafted  with 

one  Mr.  H. r,  and  preached  at  7  in  the  Morning  to  about 

as  numerous  a  Congregation,  but  with  much  greater  Spirit's 
then  laft  Night — l"he  Place  wi:iere  I  preached  was  exceed- 
ing convenient---!  flood  in  the  Valley,  and  the  People  on  ari 
Alcent  that  formed  a  moft  beautiful  Amphitheatre—After  I  had 
done,  God  gave  me  fom.e  moft  extraordinary  Inftances  of  the 
Power  of  his  Word. — Lord^  not  unto  me,  but  unto  thy  Narne- 
be  all  the  Glory. 

Left  Cirencejier  about  1 1,  dined  at  Lcatchladc,  where  the  In- 
habitants were  very  importunate  to  hear  me,  would  Time 
have  permitted — I  reached,//Z'//z^^/i/;?,  22  Miles  from  Cirencejicr^ 
about  7,  and  preached  to  feveral  thoufimds  foon  after  I  came  in. 
— Much  Oppofition  had  been  made  againft  my  Comino- — The 
Landlord,  v/hofe  Houfe  we  offered  to  put  up  at,  genteeJIy  iold 
us,  he  had  not  Room  for  us ;  and  numberlefs  Prejudices  had 
been  induftrioufly  fpread  to  prevent  my  Succefs — But  God 
ftrengthened  me  after  my  Journey,  and  enabled  m^e  to  fpeaic, 
I  truft,  to  the  Hearts  of  many — God's  JVordivUl  make  its  ovjh 
Way^  let  Men  fay  what  they  pleafe.  Our  Weapons  are  n<;t  car- 
nal, but  mighty  thro'  the  Divine  Poivcr,  to  the  pulUrig  dotvn 
Satan's  Strong-holds. 


Abingdon,  and  B^fingftokc, 

Thurfday^  July  19.  At  the  Requeft  of  feveral  well-difpofed 
People,  preached  again  this  Morning,  tho'  not  to  fo  great -a 
Number  as  before  — A  fweet  Power  was  amongd:  us. — The 
Hearers  melted  into  Tears  under  the  Word. — My  Heart  was 
full  of  Love,  and  their's  alfo  were  much  affected — Oh  /  vjh:it 
a  fudden  Alteration  does  this  Foolijhnefs  of  Preaching  make  i-n  the 
meji  cbjlinate  Hearts  /  '7/V  but  for  God  to  fpeak  the  If'crdy 
and  the  Lion  is  turned  into  a  Latnb. — Oh  I  that  ive  tvere  like 
that  dear  Lamb  of  God,  ivho  died  to  take  atvay  the  Sn:s  of  the 
JVorld! 

E  Brcakfafle4 


26     Mr.  White  field'j  Journal 

Breakfaftcd  with  Mr.  F — r,  who  with  many  other  Frien 
exprefled  great  Tokens  of  Fricndfhip  for  me  and  my  Fellow 
Travellers — Set  out  at  li,  dined  at  Ilfly^  and  reached  Bajing- 
jickc  about  7  at  Night — Perceiving  myfelf  languid  and  v>cary, 
I  lay  down  upon  the  Bed  foon  after  our  coming  into  the 
Inn,  but  was  foon  refrefhcd  with  the  News,  that  the  Landlord, 
one  of  whofc  Children  was  wrought  upon  when  I  was  there 
hit,  would  net  let  us  Ifay  under  his  Roof ;  upon  which  I  im- 
mediately rofe  and  went  to  another  Inn  ;  but  the  People  made 
a  Mock  of  both  me  and  my  Friends  as  we  paft  along,  and  fhot 
out  their  Arrows,  even  bitter  Words  againft  us,  and  Fire- 
Rockets  were  thrown  around  the  Door — It  was  now  near  8 
o'clock,  and  too  late  to  preach  ;  I  therefore  retired  from  my 
Friends,  gave  GOD  Thanks  for  accounting  me  worthy  to 
fuffer  Reproach  for  his  Name's  Sake,  and  about  an  Hour  after 
received  the  following  Letter  by  the  Hands  of  the  Conftablc 
from  Mr.  Pviayor. 

SIR, 

'  Being  a  Civil  Magiftrate  in  this  Town,  I  thought  it  my 
'  Duty,  for  the  Prefcrvation  of  the  Peace,  to  forbid  you,  or 
'  at  lealt  difwade  you,  from  preaching  here.    If  you  perfilt  in 

*  it,  in  all  Probability,  it  may  occafion  a  Diilurbancc,  which 

*  I  think  is  your  Duty,  as  a  Clergyman,  as  well  as  mine,  to 

*  prevent.   If  any  Mifchief  fhould  enfue  (whatever  Pretence 

*  you  may  afterwards  make  in  your  own  Behalf)  I  am  fatis- 
'  fied  will  fall  on  your  own  Head,  being  timely  cautioned  it  by 
'  me,  who  am, 

5/r, 

Baftngjioke,  Your  7noJl  humble  Sei-jarity 

Julyi^,  1739. 

John  Abbot. 

P.S.  The  Leglflator  has  wifely  made  Laws  for  the  Pre- 
fcrvation of  the  Peace,  therefore,  I  hope,  no  Clergy- 
man lives  in  Defiance  cf  them. 


To 


at  Abingdon  and  Balingftoke.  27 

To  this  I  immediately  fent  the  following  Anfvver : 

Honoured   5/r, 

*  I  thank  you  for  your  kind  Letter,  and  I  humbly  hope  a 

*  Senfe  of  your  Duty,  and  not  a  Fear  of  Man,  caufed  you  to 
'  v/rite  it.  If  fo,  give  me  Leave  to  remind  you.  Honoured  Sir, 
'  as  a  Clergyman,  you  ought  to  be  a  Terror  to  evil  Doers,  but 
'  a  Praife  to  them  that  do  well — I  know  of  no  Law  againll 
'  fuch  Meetings  as  mine — If  any  fuch  LaM'  be  exifting,  I  bc- 

*  licve  you  will    think    it  your  Duty,  Honoured  Sir,  to  ap- 

*  prize  me  of  it ,  that  I  may  not  offend  againft  it — If  no  Law 
'  can    be  produced,  as  a  Clergyman,    I   think  it   my  Duty 

*  to  inform  you,  that  you  ought  to  protect,  and  not  any 
'  v/ays  to  difcourage,  or  permit  others  to  difturb  an  Af- 
'  fcmbly  of  People  meeting  together,  purely  to  v/orfliip  GOD. 

*  To-morrow,  Honoured  Sir,  I  hear,  there  is  to  be  an  Af- 
'  fembly  of  another  Nature,  he    pleafed   to   be  as  careful  to 

*  have  the  publick  Peace  preferved  at  that,  and  to  prevent 
'  prophane  Curfmg  and  Swearing,  and  Perfons  breaking  the 
'  lixth  Commandment,    by  bruifing   each    other  Bodies  by 

*  Cudgelling  and  Wreftling;  and  if  you  do  not  this,  I  flial), 

*  rife  up,  againit  you  at  the  great  Day,  and  be  a  fwift  Wit- 
"  nefs  againft  your  Partiality,  I  am, 

Jlcuncurcd   Sir, 

<■  Tour  very  hiunhlc  Scrvajjt, 

George  White  field. 

Friday^  J idy  ^T,.  After  Breikfift  v/aitcd  in  Perfon  upon 
Mr.  Mayor,  to  fee  what  Lav/  could  he  produced  againfl:  my 
Meetings — Affoon  as  I  began  to  talk  with  him,  I  perceived 
he  was  a  little  angry — A.nd  faid.  Sir,  you  fneered  me  in 
the  Letter  you  fcnt  laft  Night— Though  I  am  a  Butcher,  yet 
Sir,  fays  lie,  I —  I  replied,  1  honoured  him  as  a  Magiftratc, 
and  only  defired  to  know  what  Lav/  could  be  produced  a- 
gainft  my  Preaching:  In  my  Opinion  there  could  be  nose, 
becaufe  there  was  never  any  fjch  thing  as  Field-Preaching  be- 
fore. I  then  inftanced  the  Trial  of  F —  the  Qi^iaker,  w])ere 
the  Jury,  notwithftanding  tliey  were  fo  hardly  ufed,  brought 
a  Verdi<^t  in  Favour  of  him — Sir,  fays  he,  vou  ought  to 
E  2  preach 


23     Mr.  W  H  I  T  E  F  I  E  L  d'5  Joiimal 

preach   in    a   Church — -And  {o    I   would,  replied    I,   if  your 

Minifter  would   give   me  Leave — Sir,  faid  he,  I  believe  you 

liavc  fome   finifter  Ends   in  View —  why  do  you   go  about 

making  a  Difturbance  ?    I   anfwered,    I   make   no    Diftur- 

bance — And    it   was  hard    I    could  not    come   into    Town 

without  being  infulted — It  was  your   Bufmefs,     Sir,  faid   I, 

to  wait,  and  if,  there  was  any  Riot  in  my  Meetings,  then, 

and   not    till    then,    it    is    your    Duty  _to    interpofe — Then 

iaid   he,  Sir,  you  wrote  to  n\c  about  the  Revel   to  Day — I 

have  declared    againft    it — But,    faid   I,    Sir,    you  ought   to 

go  and  read    the  Riot-Adi,  and  put  an  entire  Stop  to    it — I 

then  prefTed  him,  to   fhcw   mc   a   Lav/   againft  Aieetings ; 

urging,    if   there    had    been    any    Law,     they    would    have 

been    flopped    long  fince — Ke  anfveered,  It  was  an  odd  Way 

of   preaching —  But,   Sir,    fays  he,    I  muft  go   away   to  a 

Fair — Before  you   came  I   had   wrote  you   another  Letter, 

whicl\  I   will   fend    you   yet.    if  you  pleafe — Upon    this    I 

thanked  him,  paid  him  the    Refpeci:   due    to    a    Magilirate, 

and  took  my  Leave  —  Soon  after  I   was  returned    to   my 

Company,  he  fent  me  the  following  Letter  : 

Rev.  Sir,  Bafuigftoke,  July  20,  1730. 

*  I  received  your   extraordinary   Letter,  and  could  expeift 

*  no  other  from  fo   uncommon  a    Genius. 

*  I    apprehend  your   Meetings    to     be  unlawful,    having 
'  no  Toleration   to  protedl  'you   in  it.     Mv  Apprehenfions 

*  of  Religion  always  was,  and  I  hope  always  will  be,  that 
'  GOD  is  to  be  \vorfhippcd  in  Places  confecrated,  and  fet 
'  a-part   for  his   Service,  and    not    in  Brothels,   and  Places 

*  where  all  Manner  of  Debauchery  may  have  been  com- 
'  mitted;  but  hew  far  this  is  ccnliftent  with  your  Actions,  I 
'  leave  you  to  judge. 

*  As  for  the  other  AfTemblv   you    are   pleafed   to    men- 
^  tion,  'tis  contrary    to  my   Will,   having  never  given  my 

*  Confent  to  it,  nor  approved  of  it,    but  difcouraged  it  be- 

*  fore  your  Revercndfliip  came  to  this  Tov/n  ;  and  if  thefe 
'  Cudgellers  pcrrifl:  in  it,  I  fhall  fet  them  upon  tlie  fame 
'   Level  with  you,  and  think  you  all  Breakers  of  the  publick 

*  Peace— You  very  well  know  there  are  Penal-Laws  againft 

*  Curfing  and  Swearing,  and  I  could  w-ifh  there  were  tl:ie 
'  fame  againft  Deceit  and  Hypocrify —  Your  appearing  a- 
^  galnfl  m.e  as  a  fwift  WitneP,  at  the  Day  of  Judgment,  I 
^  luult  ov/n,  is  a  moft  terrible  Thing,  and  may  fervc  as  a  Bug- 

'  bear 


at  Abingdon   and  Bafingftoke.  29 

^  bear  for  Children,  or  People  of  weak   Minds ;  but  believe 

*  me,    Reverend  Sir,     thofe  Difguifes   will    have    but    little 

*  Weight  amongfl  Men  of  common  Underftanding.   ^ 

I   told    you  I  had    a  Letter  Taas, 

wrote,  I  made  bold  to  fend  it. 

John    Abbot. 

To  this  I  fent  the  following  Anfwer  : 

Honoured   Sir, 

'Does  Mr.  Mayor  do  well  to  be  angry  ?  Alas,  what  Evil 
^  have  I  done  !  I  honour  vou  as  a  Magiftrate  ;  but  as  a  Mi- 
'  nifter  I  am  obliged  to  have  noRefpeft  of  Perfons — Yonrap- 
'  prehend'mg  my  Meetings  to  be  unlawful,  does  not  make  them 

*  to  be  fo — There's  no  need  of  a  Toleration  to  protect  me, 
'  when  I  do  not    a£l  unconformable    to   any   Law,   Civil  or 

*  Ecclefiaftical — Be  pleafcd  to  prove  that  my  Meetings  are 
'  Schifmatical.  Seditious,  or  Riotous,  and  then  I  will  fubmit — 
'  But  you  fay  they  are  upon  unconfecrated  Ground — Ho- 
*■  noured  Sir,   give  me  Leave   to  inform,    you,  that  GOD  is 

*  not  now  confined  to  Places,  but   feeketh  fuch    t-o   worfliip 

*  him,  who  worfhip  him  in  Spirit  and  in  Truth;  and  where 
'  tv/o  or  three  are  gathered  together  in  Chriji's  Name,  there 

*  v.'ill  Chrifr  be  in  the  Midxt  of  them— The  Church,  by 
'  our  Minifters  in  their  Prayer  before  their  Sermons  is  de- 
'  fined   not  to   be   the  Church-Walls,    but  a   Congregation 

*  of  Chriftian  People,  fuch  is  mine.  As  for  judging  me — 
'  To  my  own  Mafter  I  fland  or  fall ;  at  his  dreadful  Tribu- 
'  nal  I  v/ill  meet  you,  and  then  you  fhali  fee  what  is  in  the 
<  Heart  of. 

Honoured  Sir, 
Bafingjloke, 
"July  20,  1739.  Tour  very  humble  Servant, 

George  Whitefield. 

About  8  o'clock  I  v/ent  into  a  Field,  lent  me  by  Mr. 
H — n  ;  and  tho'  one  faid,  1  fhould  not  go  alive  out  of  Bafing- 
jloke if  I  preached  there,  and  another  faid,  the  Drum  fhould 
beat    jufl   by    mc,    yet    I    had    little  or    no    Interruption, 

and 


^o     Mr.  WhitefieldV  "Journal 

and  GOD  gave  mc  fuch  great  Power  in  fpeaking  agalnft 
Revelling,  and  tbofe  {^sk  Scoffers  that  were  there,  that  they 
^vere  not  able  to  galnfay  or  refifl:  it.  As  I  came  from  the 
Field,  pafling  through  the  Church-Yard,  the  Boys,  headed 
by  fome  of  the  bafcr  Sort,  faluted  me  as  before,  called  me 
ftrange  Name?,  v*'hich,  I  trull,  was  received  in  the  Spi- 
rit of  our  dear  Mafler. 

After  this  I  pray'd  and  fiang  Pfalms^at  the  Inn  with 
fome  few  Difciples,  and  then  took  my  Leave — As  I  paffed 
by  on  Horfeback,  I  faw  a  Stage  built  for  the  Cudgellers 
and  V/reftlers  ;  and  as  I  rode  farther,  1  met  divers  coming 
to  the  Revel,  which  afFetSted  me  fo  much,  that  I  had  no 
Reft  in  my  Spirit.  And  therefore  having  asked  Council  of 
GOD,  and  perceiving  an  unufual  Power  and  Warmth 
enter  into  my  Soul,  though  I  was  gone  above  a  Mile 
from  the  Town,  I  could  not  bear  to  fee  fo  many  Dear 
Souls  for  whom  Chnjl  died,  ready  to  perifa,  and  no  A'xi- 
uifter  or  Magiltrate  interpofe.  Upon  this  I  told  my  dear 
Fellow  Travellers  that  I  was  refolvcd  to  follow  the  Example 
of  Howel  Harris  in  lVc,le%^  and  to  bear  my  Tcfamony  a- 
Ptiinft  fuch  Iving  Vanities,  let  the  Confequences,  os  to  my 
own  private  Perfon,  be  what  they  would — They  iinmediate- 
iy  confcnting,  I  rode  back  to  the  Town,  got  upon  the 
Stage,  creeled  for  the  Wreftlers,  nnd  began  to  (hew  them 
the  Error  of  their  Ways  —  Many  feemed  ready  to  hear 
what  I  had  to  fay,  but  one  more  zealous  for  his  Mafter 
than  the  refl,  and  fearing  Convidlion  every  Time  I  i^ 
much  as  attempted  to  fpeak,  fct  the  Boys  upon  repeating 
their  Uzza's — My  Soul,  I  perceived,  was  in  a  fwcet  Frame, 
•willing  to  be  offered  up,  fo  that  I.  might  ^ii.\'Q.  fome  of  thofc, 
to  whom  I  was  about  to  fpeak  ;  but  all  in  vain.  While  1 
■was  on  the  Stage,  one  llruck  me  with  his  Cudgel,  whicii 
I  received  with  the  utmoU  Love  ;  till  at  laft  finding  the 
Devil  would  not  permit  them  to  give  me  Audience,  I  g^t 
off,  and  after  much  thronging  and  pufliing  mc,  I  mounted 
my  Horfe  with  unfpeakable  Satisfaftion  within  myfelf,  that 
I  had  nov/  begun  to  attack  the  Devil  in  his  fErongefr  Holds, 
and  liad  born'my  Teftim.ony  againft  the  detefrable  Divcrfions 
of  this  Generation — Ye  Mailers  of  IfrceU  vi'liat  are  you  do- 
ing ?  Ye  Magidrates,  that  ar-c  called  Gods  in  Scripture,  vvliy 
ileep  y^''"  ?  Why  do  you  bear  the  Sword  in  vain  ?  WJiy 
count  you  mc  a  Troublcr  of  Jfrael,  and  why  fay  you  1 
teach  People  to  be  idle,  when  you  can  connive   at,  if  not 

fjbfcribc 


(li  London.  31 

Uibfcribe  to  fuch  hellifti  Meetings  as  thefe,  which  not  on- 
ly draw  People  from  their  Bodily  Work,  but  diredly  tend 
to  delboy  their  precious  and  immortal  Souls ;  llirely  I  fhall 
appear  againft  you  at  the  Judgment  Seat  of  Chrlji ;  for 
thefe  Diverhons  keep  People  from  true  Chriflianity  as  much 
as  Paganifm  itfelf.  And  I  doubt  not,  but  it  will  require  as 
much  Courage  and  Power,  to  divert  People  from  thefe 
Things,  as  the  Apoftles  were  obliged  to  exert  in  converi:- 
ing  the  Heathen  from  their  dumb  Idols.  Howsvcr,  in  the 
Strength  of  my  Majier^  I  xv'ili  now  enter  th»  Lijh,  and  he- 
gin  an  offenfive  IVar  zvhh  Satan,  and  all  his  Ho/}.  If  I 
perijh  /,  peri/h,  1  jhall  have  the  TejVimony  of  a  good  Con- 
felenee^   I  foall  be  free  frotn  the  Blood  of  all  Men. 

From  Bafingjhke  I  intended  to  go  to  IVindfor^  but  havijig 
not  fent  to  any  in  that  Place,  and  longing  for  a  little  Retire- 
ment, I  lay  at  Stainsy  and  fpent  fome  Hours  in  fweet  Fel- 
lowfhip  with  my  dear  Fellow  Travellers.  O  what  a  blejfed 
Th'mg  it  is  for  Brethren  to  dwell  together  in  Unity  ! 


London, 

Saturday,  July  21,  Set  out  a  little  after  4  in  the  Morn- 
ing, and  reached  London  by  Breakfaft  Time — Settled  my 
Affairs,  rejoiced  with  my  dear  Friends,  and  preached  in 
the  Evening  to  upwards  of  ten  thoufand  at  Kennington-Com~ 
mon — The  poor  Souls  were  ready  to  leap  for  Joy  at  my  Re- 
turn amongll  them— The  Vv'oid  funk  deep  into  their  Hearts- 
Great  Numbers  melted  into  Tears,  and  my  own  Heart  over- 
flov/ed  with  Love  towards  them — Bleffed  be  GOD  for  what 
has  been  done  here,  hnce  I  \t.it  London,  by  my  honoured  Friend 
and  Fellow  Labourer,  Mr.  Charles  Wefley.  Surely,  Wi'  can 
fee  the  Fruits  of  our  Labsurs.  —  AH  LcJe,  all  Clsry  be  ti 
GODy  for  giving  fo  great  an  Ir.ereaje  I 

Sunday,  July  22.  Ever  funce  I  was  abufed  at  Bafingfloh,  I 
have  had  great  Communications  from  GOD.  JVi:!cn  Men  cafi 
lis  cut,  then  does  Jefus  Chrift  chi*'fy  take  us  up.  TVhs  iviuld  not 
be  a  Chrijlian  ?  There  is-nothing  /  dcfire  C7i  Ear:h  in  Com- 
parifon  of  that — Received  a  Letter  from  Pilr.  Ralph  Er^kim 
of  Scotland.  Some  ?nay  be  offended  at  77:y  ce,rrefpanding  -with 
hi?n^  but  I  dare  7iot  hut  corfefs  my  Lord's  Difcipld — — 
Had    a  preiSng  Ijivitatign  to  come  into   Lhrcdvfche 


3 2     Mr.  WhttefieldV  Journal 

BleJJl'd  be  GOD.,  the  JVord  runs  very  fiv'tftly.  In  vaiti  di 
cur  *Advcrfaries  Jland  agahift  the  Mojl  High— ? reached  at 
7  in  the  Morning  to  about  20000  at  Moor  fields — A  greater 
Power  than  ever  was  amongfl:  us— Scoffers  and  curious  Perfons 
daily  drop  ofF — Moil  that  come  now,  I  hope,  do  not  come  out 
of  Curiofity — Never  were  Souls  m.ore   melted    down  by  the 

Power  of  GOD's    Words Never  did    People  offer   their 

Mites  more  willingly— I  collected  24 /.  17  x.  for  the  School- 
Houfe  that  is  eredling  at  Kingfxvood^  and  all   feemed  follicitous 

how  to  exprefs  their  Affeflion Te  Scoffers.,  ye  blind  Pha- 

r  I  fees.,  come  and  fee.,  and  then  call  thefe  tu?nultuous,  /editions 
Ajfe?nbUes  if  you  can.       Would   to    GOD,    they   behaved  fo 

decently  in    any   Church   in  London Went   to-  St.  Paul's, 

and  received  the  blelfed  Sacrament,  and  preached  in  the 
Evening  at  Kenniijgton-Common  to  about  30000  Hearer?,- 
and  colfccSled  15  /.  15  s.  6  d.  for  the'  Colliers — GOD  g-'ve 
me  great  Power,  and  I  never  opened  my  Mouth  fo  freely 
againft  the  Letter-learned  Clergymen  of  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land. Every  Day  do  I  fee  the  Neceffityiof  fpeaking  cut 
more  and  -more — The  moft  learned  of  our  modern  Rabbles, 
I  find  now  by  their  Writings,  and  by  their  Conferences  with 
rae  and  my  Friends,  either  make  our  Sanclification  a  Caufs 
of,  whereas  it  is  the  Ef^etSl  of  our  Juftification  before  GOD, 
or  they  entirely  interpret  away  the  Meaning  of  all  the  Doc- 
trines of  the  Spirit,  fo  as  to  make  Regeneration  confift  on- 
ly in  a  Defire  and  good  Difpofition  to  do  the  Will  of 
GOD  ;  or,  in  other  Words,  m  an  outward  Decency  of 
Life,  and  a'  Morality  falfely  fo  called.  This  is  the  Sum. 
and  Subilance  of  the  Generality  of  our  modern  Doftrine. 
And  therefore,  was  I  to  die  immediately  for  fpeaking,  yet  I 
fhould  not  die  in  Peace,  unlefs  I  bore  my  Teftimony  a- 
gainft  them.  GOD  knows  my  Heart,  I  do  not  fpeak  out 
of  Refentmcnt — I  heartily  wifh  all  the  LORD's  Servants 
were  Prophets — I    v/ifli    the    Church   of    England  was   the 

Joy   of  the  whole  Earth But  I  cannot   fee    her  finking 

into  Papiftical  Ignorance,  and  Deifm  refined,  and  not  open 
my  Mouth  againft  thofe,  who  by  their  fcnfual  lukewarm. 
Lives,  and  unfcriptural  fuperficial  Dc^bines,  thus  caufc  her 
err— O  LORD,  fend  cut,  ive  befeech  thee,  f^'^J'iJ  fj-'y 
Light,  and  thy  Truth.  Even  fo  come,  LORD  JESUS, 
come  quickly  ! 

M'-nda-i^ 


at  London »  33 

Monday,  'July  23.  This  Day  I  received  the  following  Letter 
from  the  Quaker  at  Bafingjioke,  at  whofe  Houfe  I  lodged. 

Bajin^oke,  July  21     1^29* 
My  Dear  Friend^ 
»  When  I  Yelterdaywent  up  to  thy  Inn,     and   found  thee 

*  jull  gone,  I  was  forry  that  I  mifs'd  an  Opportunity,  both  of 
'  taking  my  Leave  of  thee,  and  expreiUng  the  Senfe  I  had  of 
'  the  Power  and  Prefence  of  GOD  that  was  with  thee,  more 

*  efpecially  in  the  latter  Part  of  thy  Sermon,  and  in  thy  Pjayer 

*  after  it ;   However  I  am  truly  glad,  that  thou  wert  prefervec! 

*  out  of  the  Hands  of  cruel  and  unreafonable  Men.  Thou 
«  heardft  of  the  Threatnings  of  many  ;  but  the  Malice  and 

*  blind  Zeal  of  fome  went  further.     For  hadft  thou  went  to 

*  my  Friend  H —  to-Bed,  or  elfewhere  towards  that  Part  of 
'  the  Town,  which  I  believe  was  expected,  there  were  lO  oc 
'  12  Men  lying  in  wait  to  do  thee  a  private  Mifchief,  which 
'  I  know  by  the  Teftimony  of  one  of  thofe  very  Men  who 

*  boafted    to   rne,  We  luould  have  given  hi?)!  a  fecret  BloWy 

*  and  prevented  his  making  Dijiurbances.       This  Confeflion 

*  came  out  to  me  in  the  Warmth  of  his  Zeal,  as  thinking, 

<  perhaps,  that  I  could  hate,  at  leaft,  if  not  deftroy  (like  him) 

<  all  that  were  not  of  my  own  Party. 

'  O  thy  noble  Teftimony  againft  the  Prophanencfs  and  Va- 

*  nity  of  the  Age.  It  rejoiced  me  not  a  little.  But  when  thou 
'  cameft  to  the  Neceflity,  the  Nature  and  the  Rewards  of  the 

*  Netu  Birth ^  the  true  Seed,  thou  wert  carried  beyond  thy- 
'  felf,  the  Fountain  of  Life  was  opened,  and  flowed  around 
'  amongft  the  Living— I  am  for  one  a  Monument  of  free  Grace 
'  and  Mercy. — O  God  how  boundlefs  is  thy  Love  !   He  hath  not 

*  hid  his  Mercies  from  me.  I  have  often  drank  of  the  fpiri- 
'  tual  Rock,  and  been  a  Witnefs  of  the  Joys   of  God's  Sal- 

*  vation.     Ay,    thofe  Joys,    that  fweet  Prefence  of  Chrijl^ 

*  that  carries  Men  above  the  Fear  of  the  World,  and  enables 

*  them  to  overcome  the  World  ;  that  baptizeth  into  the  Spi- 

*  rit  and  Nature  of  the  Son  of  God,  and  maketh  Difcipies 
'  indeed. — It  is  a  Senfe  of  God  ever-near  the  Influences  of- hist 

*  quickening  Spirit,  that  is  only  able  to  deter  from  EviljCrucify* 
'  the  old  Nature,  create  again  to  God,  and  perform  his  good 
'  and  acceptable  Will. — This  will  make  a  thorough  Refor-i 
'  motion^  beginning  at  the  Heaft,  fandifying  that,  guarding 

*  of  it,    and  making  it  a  holy  TempLe  for  the  holy  Spirit  to 

*  dwell  in,    then  producing  holy  Thoughts,    Longings  after 

F  *  divine 


34      ^^'  Whitefield'j   ^Journal 

*  divine  Enjoyments,    Love,  Joy,  Solidity,    WatcWuInefs, 

*  But,  why  this  to  thee  ?  Tliou  haft  drunk  deep  of  divine 
'   Love ;  only  I  know   that   the  good   Experiences   of  God's 

*  Children  are  often  Caufes  of  mutual  Comfort.  I  have  often 

*  been  fenfible  of  it  myfeJf,  and  therefore  not  only  thus  pri- 
'  vately,    but  publickly  have    I  been   ftrengthened  to  tell  to 

*  others,  that  God  is  good,  and  that  he  has  done  great  Things 

*  for   my  Soul.      Minifters  not  thus  qualified,  and  thus  fent, 

*  may  indeed  be  Minifters  of  thofe  v^'ho  fent  them,  but  Alini- 

*  Hers  of  Chr'iJ}  they  cannot  be, 

*  May  we,  my  dear  Friend,  tho' abfent  in  Body  be  prefent 

*  in  Spirit  in  him  who  is  omniprefent.  May  we  unitedly  go  on 

*  in  the  Caufe  of  our  common  Lord  and  Mafter,  to  promote  his 

*  in  Honour  in  winning  Souls  to  him  !  May  we  bear  a  faithful 

*  and  undaunted  Tcftimony  to  him  before  all  Men  in  the 
'  midft  of  a  perverfe  Generation.  May  we  not  flinch,  but 
'  declare  the  Truth  as  it  is  in  Jtfus^  not  daubing  nor  daring 

*  to  make  the  Way  to  the  Kingdom  of  God  wider  than  it  is. 
'  And  may  we  finally  be  received  up  into  the  Manfions  of 

*  Glory,  there  to  live   with  all  the  righteous   Generations, 

*  with   thofe  tliat  have  wafhcd  their  Garments  white  in  the 

*  Blood  of  the  Lamb,    and  with  thofe  that  have  laid  down 

*  their  Lives  for  the  Teftimony  of  Jefus^  and  to   fing  with 

*  them.   Hallelujahs,    Glory  and  Praifc,  for  ever  and  ever. — 

*  May  the  Antient  of  Days,  the  Alpha  and  Omega,  keep  thee 
'  in  his  Arms,  diietSl  thee  by  his  Spirit,    fupport,    comfort, 

*  and   watch  over  thee,  is  the  fervent   Prayer,   of  my  dear 

*  P'riend,  thine  in  great  Sincerity. 

J.  Portsmouth. 


My  Friend,  Mr.  JVtU'iam  Sezuard,  received    alfo  a  Letter 
from  his  Brother,  in  which  were  the  following  Paragr.iphs. — 

*  I  had  a  Letter  per  laft  Poft  from  Mr. wherein  he 

•  fpeaks  of  one  Mr.  of  Corpus  Chrijii  College,  whom 

•  his  Uncle,  a  Clergyman,  hath  intirely  dii'carded,  and  wrote 

*  to  thic  College  to  expel  him  for  his  methodillical  Notions. 

*  'V\.t  old    Clerk  at  Breferton,  whom  I  before  fpoke  of, 
*,  having  heard   Mr.    U'hltijicld  at  Badfey,  was    fo  affeded, 

*  that  l.c  told  me,    he  could  have  no  rcil  in  his  Spirit ;  but 

'  after 


at  London.  35 

*  after  fearching  the  Church- Ho7n'i lies  Articles,  kc.  and  find- 

*  ing    the  DocStrine   every   way  agreeable  to  them,  he   met 

*  with   the  Landlord   of  Contcrcup,   who    difcourfing   about 

*  Mr.  White  field,  told   him,  he  had    fqme   old    Books,  that 

*  fet  forth  tlie  very  fame  Doctrine.  Soon  after  this  he 
'  went  to  Work,  being  a  Taylor  by  Trade,  and  asking 
'  for  one    of  thefe   Books,     the  others    being    lent  out,    he 

*  faid,    he  had    not  read  above  a  Page  or   two,  before    the 

*  Truth  broke  in  upon  his  Soul  like  Lightening.  He  faid, 
'  he  could  not  go   on   with    his   Work  with    any   Satlsfac- 

*  tion,  but  his  Fingers  itched  to  be  at  his  Book  again, 
'  which  tlie  Man  lent  him    home  with  him  ;  a   few  Days 

*  after,  he  got  the  other,  which  fo  ftrengthen'd  and  con- 
'  firmed  him,  that  he  could  lay  his  Life  down  in 
'  Defence  of  the  Truth  as  it  is  in  'Jefus.  He  fays,  the 
'  Gofpel  appears  to  him,  as  though  he  had  never  read  a 
'  Line  in   it   before ;  and  it  is  a  greater  Miracle    to   him, 

*  that  he,  an  old  Sinner,  with  one  Foot  in  the  Grave, 
'  fhould  be  called  at  thefe  Years,  than  if  he  had  {tQ,\\  the 
'  Dead  raifed  —  He  always,  by  what  I  can  learn,  bore  a 
'  fair    Charadler,  and   was  eftcsmed  by  his  Neighbours,  but 

*  now  thrca^ncd  with  the  Lofs  of  his  Bread,  for  coming 
'  to  Badfey  Society,  and  declaring  his  Teftimony  to  the 
'  Truth  of  Mr.  Jf%itcjicld's  Doftrine,  or  rather,  I  fnouIJ 
'  fay,  the   Do6lrine    of  the  Gofpel.      The  Books    he    met 

*  with  are  very  old,  and,  he  fays,  were  thrown  by  as 
'  waftc  Paper  out   of  a    Clergyman's  Library,  that  was  fold 

*  after  his  Death,  wl)ereby  the  Cotitercup  Man  met  with 
'  them,  and  they  fecmcd  very  providentially  referred  for 
'  his  Ufe.' 

Perfons  wonder  at  mc,  bccaufe  I  talk  of  Pcrfecution,  now 
tlie  World  is  become  Chriflian  ;  but  alas  [  was  J  ejus  Chriji 
to  come  down  from  Heaven  at  this  Time,  lie  uxjuld  be 
treated  as  formerly.  And  whoever  goes  forth  to  preach  the 
Gofpel  in  his  Spirit,  muft  cxpccl  the  flmie  Treatment  as 
his  firlt  Apollles  met  with.     Lord,  prepare  us  for  all  Events  / 

Preached  this  Evening  at  Haekney-MarJJ}  to  about  two, 
thoufand  People  —  I  pravcd  and  difcourfed  for  above  two 
Hours,  and  with  greater  Demonrtration  of  the  Spirit  than 
ever  — ■  Floods  of  Tears  were  fl:ied  by  the  Hearers,  and 
the  Do(Slrine  feemed  to  make  its  own  Way  into  their 
Hearts  —  Ever)'  Day  have  I  more  and  more  Rcafon  to 
F  2  rejoice 


36       Mr.  Wh  I  T  E  F  I  E  L  D  '5  Journal 

rejoice  in  what  GOD  has  done  for  my  own,  an 
other's  Souls.  Thoufands  at  the  great  Day  will  havC 
Reafon  to  blefs  GOD  for  Field-Preaching.  Then  our 
Pharifecs  will  believe.  But  LORD,  grant  the  Fell  may 
he  taken  fro7n  their  Hearts,  and  the  Scales  from  their 
Eyes,  before  that  dreadful  Day  !  For  then  Cotivi£ilons  ivill 
come  too  late. 

Tuefday,  July  24.  Difpatched  my  private  Affairs,  and 
preached  in  the  Evening  zt  Kennington- Common  to  about  15000. 
The  Doclrine,  I  believe,  diftilled  like  the  Dew.  Afay  the 
Lord  JESUS  ivatcr  their  thirjiy  Souls  ! 

IVednefday,  July  25.  Preached  this  lL\G\\\t\^2X  Edmordon, 
at  the  Y^Q^w^  of  many.  The  Congregation  was  large  and  at- 
tentive,, and  I  rejoiced  in  having  an  Opportunity  of  offering 
Salvation  freely  to  the  Rich.  Oh,  that  all  in  high  Stations 
were  rich  towards  GOD  I 

Thurfday,  July  26.  Preached  to  upwards  of  ten  thoufand 
at  Hackney  Mar Jl),  where  I  appointed  purpofely  to  preach, 
becaufe  there  was  to  be  an  Horfe-Race  in  the  fame  Field. 
Blcffcd  be  GOD,  I  had  the  Pleafure  of  bearing  my  Tt- 
Itimony  againlt  fuch  unchriltian  Entertainments.  Very  few 
left  the  Sermon  to  fee  the  Race,  and  fome  of  thofc  returned 
back  again  quickly,  to  whom  I  took  Occafion  of  fpcak- 
ing  with  fomcthingof  the  Love  and  Simplicity  of  Chrifl — To 
him  he  all  the  Glory.  I  think  this  is  a  manifcff  Proof 
of  the  Succefs  of  our  Dodrinc.  By  tiie'Hclp  of  GOD  I 
will  ftill  go  on  to  attack  the  Devil  in  his  itrongcll:  Holds. 
The  common  People  go  to  thefe  Diverflons  for  Want  of 
knowing  better.  If  wc  can  once  draw  them  from  thefe, 
their  Minds  will  be  better  prepared  to  receive  the  Gofpel. 
Prof  per,  O   LORD,  this  IFork   of  my  Hands  upon  me! 

priday,  July  27.  Preached  at  Kemiingt^n-Common  to  my 
iifual  Number  of  Hearers,  went  to  Leivijlnim,    was  kindly 

entertained  by  Mrs. and   lay  at  the  Houfe  of  Mr. 

both  which  received   me  and  my  Friends  with  Joy Bleijed 

be  GOD  for    all  his    Mercies. 

Saturday,  July  28.  Spent  a  comfortable  Hour  with  my 
Friends  in  the  JVlorning,  went  to  pay  a  Vifit  to  tlie  Family  of 
JufticeZ)t'  la  Matte  At  Bkndon,  where  we  exhorted  and  built 
up   each  other   in    the   Knowledge    and  Fear   of   GOD — 

Preached 


at  London.  37 

Preached    'ixBlackhcath  in  the  Evening,  and  came  home  re- 
joking  that  I   faw  great   Fruits   of  my    Miniftry The 

Bills  which  are  fent  to  me,   plainly  prove,  that   GOD  has 

Worked  on    Numbers  of  Souls At    the   fudgmcnt    Day 

you  Jhall  fec^   O    Pharifees^ -what  Good  has  heen   done  by  this 

Foolijhnefs  of  pi' caching Many,  I  believe  y  come  t^  the  Juelds 

to  worftnp  the  Father  in  Spirit  and  in  Truth— GOD  feeketh 
fiich  to  worjhip  him. 

Sunday,  July  2g.  Preached  this  Morning  in  Moorjields 
to  a  much  larger  Congregation  than  we  had  laft  Sunday^ 
and  coilecfled  24  /.  9  s.  tor  the  School  at  Kingfwood.  Re- 
ceived the  Sacrament  at  St.  Paul's,  and  preached  at  Ke?i- 
nington-Comrnon  in  the  Evening,  where  20  /.  was  collcded, 
GOD  fent  us  a  litde  Pv.ain  ;  but  that  only  wafhed  away  the 
curious  Hearers — Near  thirty  thoufand  Itood  their  Ground, 
and  GOD,  I  believe,  watered  them  with  the  Dew  of  his 
Heavenly  BlciTing — A  more  vifible  Alteration  for  the  bet- 
ter is  made  in  the  People  daily,  a  good  Work  is  wrought 
in  the  Hearts  of  Numbers.  It  would  be  endlefs  to  recount 
how  many  come  to  mc  under  ftrong  Conviilions  of  their 
lo{t  Eftate.  GOD  has  begun,  GOD  will  carry  on  the  good 
Work  in    their  Souls  -.—Even  Jo,    Lord  JESUS  ! 

Monday,  July  30.  Was  bufied  all  the  Morning  in  di- 
reaing  thofe  to  believe  in  Jefus  Chriji,  who  came  asking 
me,  What  they  Jloould  do  to  be  faved?  Preached  at  Plaijhiv, 
about  6  Miles  from  London,  and  an  uncommon  Power  was 
in  the  Congregation— My  own  Heart  was  much  enlarged, 
and  I  returned  home  much  rejoiced  within  myfelf  that  the 
Lord  Jefus  was  pleafed  flill  to  manifeft  himfelf  more  and 
more  amongft  us. 

Tuefday,  July  31.  Preached  at  Newington  near  Hackney, 
to  about  twenty  thoufand  People,  many  of  whofe  Hearts,  as 
well  as  my  own,  were  warmed  under  the  Word— I  preached 
upon  Genefis  iii.  15.  and  I  hope  the  Seed  of  the  Woman 
is  now  bruifmg  the  Serpent's  Head  to  fome  Purpofe— ^//z^;/. 
Lord  JESUS,  Amen  !  "^ 

Wedncfday,  Augujl  i.  Preached  this  Evening  at  Marj 
Le  Bone  Fields,  at  the  other  End  of  the  Town,  to  near 
thn-ty  thoufand,  and  went  afterwards  to  take  my  Leave  of 
Fetter-Lane  Society. —We  parted  in  Love,  and  I  hope  the 
next  Time  we  meet,  we  foall  be  in  or  at  leaa  nearer  Heaven. 

Oh, 


3^     Mr,  WhitefieldV  Journal 

Oh,   that  ive  may    comfort   one  another  vjlth  the  ProfpeSI  ef 
this  Thing. 

TJn{rfdr,y\  Auguji  2.  Preached  at  Navington  to  upwards 
of  twenty  thoufand  People,  and  came  home  much  rejoicing 
to  fee  what  a  great  Work  GOD  has  done  in  this  City — ^ 
Thoufands,  and  I  believe  ten  thoufands,  come  conftantly  to 
hear — Scoffers  feem  afraid  to  fbew  their  Heads,  being  fre- 
quently overpowered  by  GOD's  Word  —  [  hope  the  Time 
is  coming  which  the  Prophet  fpeaks  off,  Behold  ye  Defpij'crsy 
and  wonder,  and  perijh  ;  for  I  will  work  a  IP'^ork  in 
your  Days,  which  you  fiall  in  no  wife  believe,  though  a 
Man  declare  it    unto  you. 

Friday,  Augiifi  3.  Spent  the  Day  in  compleating  my  Af- 
fair-s  taking  my  Leave  of  my  dear  Friends,  and  preached  in 
the  Evening  to  near  twenty  thoufand  at  Kennington-Crinmon. 
I  chofe  todifcourfc  on  St.  Paul\  Parting-Speech  to  the  Elders 
•iXEphefis,  JHs  \\.  at  which  the  Pcple  were  exceedingly 
;ifte£ted,  and  almoft  prevented  my  making  any  Application. 
Many  Tears  were  flied,  when  I  talked  of  leaving  them.  I 
concluded  all  with  a  fuitable  Hymn,  but  could  fcarce  get  to 
the  Coach,  for  the  People's  thronging  mc,  to  take  me  by 
the  Hand,  and  give  me  a  parting  Blefllng. — And  here  I 
cannot  but  fhut  up  this  Part  of  my  Journal  with  a  Word 
or  two  of  Exhortation  to  my  dear  Brethren,  whofoever 
they  arc,  whom  GOD  (hall  ftir  up  to  go  forth  into  the 
Highways  and  Hedges,  into  the  L*anes  and  Streets,  to  com- 
pel poor  Sinners  to  come  in — You  fee,  my  dear  Brethren, 
what  great  Things  GOD  has  already  done — It  is  unknown 
how  many  have  come  to  me  under  ftrong  Convidions  of 
tiieir  fallen  Eftate,  and  what  Numbers  of  Bills  I  have  re- 
ceived from  Pcrfons  fecking  Chrifl, —  dcfjring  to  be  a- 
wakened  to  a  Senfe  of  Sin,  and  giving  Thanks  for  the 
Benefits  GOD  has  imparted  to  them  by  my  Miniftry. 
Letters  of  Invitation  have  been  fent  me  from  different 
Parts  of  the  Kingdom. — O  my  dear  Brethren,  have  Com- 
paflion  on  our  dear  LORD's  Church,  which  he  has  pur- 
chafed  with  his  own  Blood — Suffer  none  of  them  to  be  as 
Sheep,  having  no  Shepherd,  or  vvoi  fc  than  none,  thofe  blind 
Leaders  of  the  Blind,  who  let  them  perifh  for  Lack  of 
Knowledge,  and  are  no  better  than  Wolves  in  Siieeps 
Cloathing  —  If  you  are  found  faithful,  you  mull  undergo 
A  Pcrfon  in  Power  told  me,   nothing 

but 


at  London.  '      39 

but  the  Fear  of  flrengthening  my  Intereft,  kept  off  the  Storm- 
But  the  Enmity  of  the  natural  Man  is  fo  great  againft 
GOD,  that  if  the  Good  Work,  which  is  begun  is  car- 
ried on,  it  will  foon  break  through  all  Reftraints,  though 
^hereby  our  Enemies  will  confound  themfelves  ;  but  the 
Scriptures  muft  be  fulfilled.  Oh  arm  People  againft  a 
Suffering  Time  ; — exhort  them  always  to  be  obedient  to  the 
higher  Powers ; — remind  them  again  and  again,  that  our 
Kingdom  is  not  of  this  World,  and  that  it  does  not  be- 
come Chriftians  to  refift  the  Powers  that  are  ordained  of 
GOD,  but  patiently  to  fufFer  for  the  Truth's  Sake — At 
prefent  GOD  calls  me  to  Trials  of  a  different  Nature  ; 
but  I  am  perfuaded,  ere  long,  it  will  be  given  me 
not  only  to  believe,  but  alfo  to  fuffer  for  our  LORD's 
Sake. —  Oh  let  us  ftrive  together  in  our  Prayers,  that  we 
may  fight  the  Good  Fight  of  Faith,  that  we  may  have 
that  Wifdom  which  cometh  from  above,  that  we  never 
fuffer  for  our  own  Faults,  but  only  for  Righteoufnefs  Sake- 
Then  will  the  Spirit  of  Chrijl  and  of  Glory  reft  upon 
our  Souls,  and  being  made  perfedl  by  fuffering  here,  we  (hall 
be  qualified  to  reign  eternally  with  Jefus  Chrijl  hereafter. 
Atmn^  Amen  / 


Eternal  Univerfal  LORD, 

Maker  of  Heav'n  and  Earth  art  Thou, 
All  Things  fprang  forth  t'obey  thy  Word^ 

Thy  pov/rfui  JVord  upholds  them  now. 


Why  then  with  unavailing  Rage, 
Did  Heathen  with  thy  People  joiHy 

And  Impotently  fierce  engage^ 
To  execute  their  vain  Deftgn  ? 


Indignant  Kings  flood  up  foppofe^ 

The  LORD,  and  his  Mefiah's  Reign, 
And  Earth's  confederate  Rulers  rofe, 
Jgajnfi  their  GOD  in  Council  vain. 


Surefy 


40      Mt\  WhitefieldV  'Journal 

Surely  againji  thy  Holy  Son, 

(Son  of  thy  Love  and  fent  by  Thee^ 

One  with  th^anolnting  Spirit^   Oncy 
JVhb  thy  co-equal  Majejiy.) 

Herod  and  Pilate  both  combhi'dy 
Thy  Sovereign  'Purpofe  to  fulfil. 

Gentiles  and  Jews  unconfclous  joind^ 
T'accomplijh  thy  Eternal  Will. 

And  now  their  idle  Fury  vieto. 

And  noiu  behold  their  Threatnings,  LORD, 
Behold  Thy  faithful  Servants  too. 

And  Jlrengthen  us  to  fpeak  thy  Word. 

EinboldeJi'd  by  thine  outflrctch'd  Arm^ 
Fill  us  with  Confidence  Divine^ 

JFith  Heavenly  Zeal  our  Bofom  zuarm. 
That  all  7nay  oivn  the  Work  is  Thine. 

May  fee  the  Tokens  of  thy  Hand, 

Its  Sovereign  Grace,  its  healing  PovSry 

2^0  more  their  Happiyiefs  withjland. 

And  fight  againji  their  GOD  no  more. 

Now  let  their  Oppofition  ceafc, 

Noiv  let  them  catch  the  quickening  Flamgy 

And  forc'd  to  yield,  the  Signs  i?jcreafe. 

The  Wonders  wrought  by  J  E  S  V's  Name^ 


FINIS. 


t 


■C: 


??#- 


■m 


■M 


