,^%^ 


^'' 


'/J//U/ 


///y  /V  ''y'—  --^  ^'^1 


^> 


\ 


.^.- 


f.^i_-L3  /7/< 


\' 


A 

CONTINUATION 

Of  the  Reverend 

Mr.  JTHITE FIELD'S 


/^ 


^JOURNAL, 

From  his  E  M  B  A  R  K I N  G  after  the 

EMBARGO, 

To  his  Arrival  at 

SAVANNAH  in    GEORGIA. 


The  Second  Edition. 


L  0  N  B  O  N: 
Printed  by  W.  St  r  a  h  a  n  for  J  a  m  e  s  Hu  t  ton, 

at  the  Bible  and  Sm^  wit     xi  tem^ie-Bar.  1 74Q, 

^  J) I  m^  3 


(  3  \ 


A 

CONTINUATION 

O  F 

Mr.  in/lTE field's 

J  O  U  R  N  A  L,  ^c. 


hewiffddm^  Deptford  and  Blendon, 

S  A  TURD  AT,  Augnji  4.      Lay  laft  Night  at  the 
Houfe  of  Mrs.  5 .     Went  in  the  Morning  td 

•  Deptford  ;  Pray'd,    fung  Pfahns,    and  gave  a  Word 
of  Exhortation  at  two  or  three  Houfes.     Returned  to  dine 

■yvith  Mrs.  S — .  Expounded  to  a  Room  full  of  People, 

Preached  at  Blackheath  to  about  1 0000 ;  and  went  to 
Blejidon^  to  the  great  Comfort  and  rejoicing  of  my  Soul, 
and  lay  there.  Oh  that  7ny  Mouth  was  ever  filed  tdtb 
the  divine  Praife  ! 

Bkmdon,  Bexly  and  Blackheath. 

SiO'Jay,  Jugu/i  ^,  Rofe  much  enlighten'jd  and  refrcfhed 
in  the  inner  Man. — Expounded  prayed,  and  fung  Pfalms  at 
Mr.  D — ■ — 's  Poor,  with  many  that  came  laft  Night 
fiom  London. — Read  Prayers,  and  aflifted  in  adminiftring 
the  Sacrament  to  feveral  hundred  Communicants  at  Bexley 
Ciiurch,-«Pfeached  in  the  Afternoon  to  abou;  1500  in 
A  a  Juttice 


'4         Mr.  W  H I T  £  F I  i:  L  D  V  yoiifml 

Juftice  D 's  Yard. — And  again  in  the  Evening  to  Si- 
bout  30000  at  Blackbeath. —  It  rained,  but  few  were 
driven  away  by  it. — Great  Power  came  upon  me  from 
above. — I  opened  mv  Mouth  with  all  Boldnefs. —  God 
watered  us  with  the  Dew  of  his  heavenly  Blefling. —  Ob 
that  we  may  all  rrow  in  Grace^  and  in  the  Knowledge  of 
our  Lord  and  Saviour  JESUS  CHRIST! 

Blendoji  and  Chatham. 

Monday^  Augujl  6.  Spent  the  former  Part  of  the  Day 
moft  agreeably  at  Blendon  ;  and  preached  in  the  Even- 
ning  at  Chatham^  about  18  Miles  from  thence,  to  near 
12000  People. — I  never  obferved  more  Decency  and  Or- 
der in  any  Place  at  my  firft  preaching,  than  at  that.— 
Had  a  Conference  after  Sermon  with  one,  who  I  fear  with 
fome  others,  maintained  Antinomian  Principles. — From 
fuch  may  all  that  know  them  turn  away  I  For  though, 
(to  ufe  the  Words  of  our  Church  Article)  Good  Wor%Si 
which  are  the  Fruits  of  Faith,  cannot  put  away  our  Sins^ 
or  endure  the  Severity  of  God's  "Judgment,  (that  is,  cannot 
jujiify  us,)  yet  they  folloiv  after  Jujiification,  and  dofpring 
out  necejfarily  of  a  true  and  lively  Faith,  infomuch  that  by 
them  a  lively  Faith  may  be  as  evidently  known  as  a  Tree 
difcerned  by  the  Fruit. 

Chatham,  Blendon,  Blaekhath  and  Lewtjhatn, 

Tuefday,  Jngiiji  j.  Left  C/'^/Z'tf/w  early  this  Morning. 
t)ined  at  Blendon^  and  preached  in  the  Evening  at  Black-* 
heath. — It  rained  very  much  the  whole  Day. — We  ex- 
pecfled  but  little  Company :  However,  there  were  about 
2000,  to  (bme  of  whom  I  truft  God  gave  an  abundant  Re- 
ward by  the  Hearing  of  Faith.  I  difcourfed  on  the  Coit- 
verfion  of  Zacchcus  the  Publican. — And  I  hope  there  was 
Joy  in  Heaven  over  fome  of  my  Hearers  repenting. — Out 
of  the  Abundance  of  my  Heart  my  Mouth  fpake. — They 
received  the  Word  as  the  thirfty  Ground  receives  the  for- 
mer and  the  latter  Rain. — I  know  not  when  I  have  beea 
more  delighted. — Lord,  in  dving  thy  Common cbnents  there 
is  great  Reward. 

Lnvi/bamm 


ztLEWISHAM.kc.  5 

Lewijhamy  Deptford  and  Blackheath, 

tVednefday^  Auguft  8.  Lay  at  Lewljham. —  Went  on 
board  the  Ship  fallen  down  to  Deptford^  which  we  now 
hallowed  by  the  Word  of  God  and  by  Prayer. — Dined 
at  Mr.  W—\  of  Lewijham,  and  preached  at  Blackheath 
to  near  20000  People,  on  the  Pharlfee  and  the  Publican.— 
I  felt  much  Freedom  in  my  felf,  and  could  not  but  take 
notice  of  a  fundamental  Miltake  his  Lordfhip  o^  London 
was  guilty  of,  in  a  Paltoral  Letter  publifhed  this  Day. — > 
For  in  it  he  exhorts  his  Clergy,  S  O  to  explain  the  Doc- 
trine of  Juftification  by  Faith  alone^  as  to  make  our  Good 
Works  a  necejfary  Condition  of  it.— -^t.  Paul  in  his  Epiftle 
to  the  Galatiansy  pronounces  a  dreadful  Anathema  againft 
the  Maintainers  of  fuch  Dodlrines. — I  pray  God  his  Lord- 
Jhip  may  fee  his  Error,  and  thereby  be  freed  from  fo  tremen- 
dous a  Sentence  !  And  let  A  L  L  the  People  fay.  Amen  ! 

On  board  Ship,  Lewifiajn  and  Blackheath, 

Thurfday,  Auguft  <^.  Went  this  Morning  and  continued 
on  board  till  Afternoon,  fettling  my  little  Family,— 
Dined  at  Lewijham.  Preached  at  Blackheath  to  a  very- 
large  Congregation. —  Took  a  little  Refrefhment,  and 
■went  and  lay  on  board,  in  order  to  be  ready  to  finilh  my 
Affairs  in  the  Morning. — Several  Companies  of  Friends 
Came  to  fee  me,  and  fome  continued  with  me  all  Night. — 
In  anfwer  to  their  Prayers,  I  doubt  not  but  we  fhall  be  as 
fafe  as  Noah  was  in  the  Ark.  Every  Place  is  alike  to  thofe 
■who  have  the  Prefence  of  God  with  them. 

Heaven  is,  dear  Lord,  where'er  thou  art, 
O  never  then  from  me  depart ; 
For  to  my  Soul  'tis  Hell  to  be. 
But  for  one  Moment  void  of  thee. 

Lewifoam^  Blackheath  and  Blendon. 

.  Friday,  Auguji  10.  Finifhed  my  Ship  Bufinefs.— 
Breakfafted  at  Lewifjam.—Spent  the  reft  of  the  Day  moft 
^omfon^hly  u  BUndon.-^  And  preached  In  the  Evening 

t» 


6         Mr.  WhitseieldV  Journal 

to  a  yet  greater  Congregation  at  Blackhcath.  —  The 
People  expeding  it  would"  be  the  laft  Time,  were  much  af- 
fcvfteu  with  Sorrow  ;  but  a  great  Shout  of  R-^rjoicing  was 
heard  amongft  them,  when  I  told  them  of  my  continu- 
ing to  preach  v}X' Monday. — God  has  made  himfelf  a  wil- 
ling People  in  the  Day  of  his  Power. —  O  all  ye  Servants 
pf  the  Lord,  blcfs  ye  the  Lord,  praifc  him  and  magnijy  him 
for  ever, 

JBlendon  and  Blackheath, 

Saturday:,,  Augiijl  1 1.  Began  in  tlie  Spirit  of  Love  and 
Meeknefs  to  anfwer  the  Bifliop  of  London^  Paftoral   Let- 
ter.— I  pray  God  give  it  his  Bicffing— Continued  all  Day 
at  Blendon. — Preached  in  the  Evening  at  Blackheath^  and 
returned  to   Blendon  with  an  earneft  Longing  in  my  Soul 
for  the  approaching  Sabbath. —  O  hov/  do  I  long  for  that 
Reft  which  awaits  the  Ghildrer      ------ 

Patience  to  wait  illl  my  Change 

hlendon^  Bexh\  BlackJdeath  2iXid,  Lewifianto 

Sunday^  Aiiguji  12.  Preached  early  In  the  Morning  to 
fome  hundreds  in  Juflice  Dela?nottc^sYzxd^  mofl:  ofwhomi 
came  thither  laft  Night,  fmging  and  praifing  God,-— 
Rcail  Prayers,  heard  a  truly  ChrijUan  Sermon  from  Mr. 
Peersy  and  afiifted  him  in  adminiftring  the  blefled  Sacra- 
ment at  his  own  Church  to  near  600  Communicants. 

Preached  at  three  in  the  Afternoon  to  near  3000  in  Mr. 
Delaniotte''f,  Yard,  and  to  about  30000  at  Blackheath. — 
At  each  Place  the  People  were  exceedingly  afFedcd.— - 
Much  Devotion  and  Reverence  was  to  be  feen  during  the 
Time  of  the  Adminiftration  of  the  Holv  Eucharift.— Iri 
the  Afternoon  at  Blackheath^  when  I  faid.  Finally^  Bre- 
thren, Fareivell  f—Thouhnds  immediately  burft  oi:t  in- 
to ftrong  Cryings  and  Tears  I  —The  Sight,  I  think, 
muft  have  melted  down  the  moft  hardened   Heart. —  My 

own  was  fo  full  that  I  did  not  know  wlien  to  leave  off. 

I  continued  my  Difcourfe  till  it  was  near  dark. And 

collected  near  15  /.  for  Kingfivocd  School. — And  with 
great  Difficulty  got  away  in  a  Coach  to  Leivijlm/n,  where' 
an  hofpitable  Entertainment  was  prepared  i'or  me  and  my 

Friends, 


at  B  LEN DON,k,c.  y 

Friends. — Their  Company  was  fweet  to  my  Sou],  but 
my  Body  being  weak,  and  God  being  pleafed  to  vifit  me 
with  fome  inward  Trials,  I  retired  to  EcJ  with  a  deeper 
Senfe  of  my  own  Vilenefs,  than  I  have  felt  for  fome 
Time. — Lord  encreafe  it  for  thy  Mercy*  %  Sake  ! 

Monday,  Auguft  13.  Rofe  early,  and  hafled  to  Blen- 
don. — Finifhed,  and  fent  to  the  Prefs,  my  Anfwer  to  His 
Lordfhip's  Paftoral  Letter. — Dined  and  took  Leave  of  my 
dear  weeping  Friends. — Rode  with  many  of  them  to 
Erith  ;  took  my  final  and  forrowful  Farewel,  and  went 
from  thence  in  a  Boat  with  my  dear  Fellow  Travellers  to 
Gravefendy  where  our  Ship  was  fallen  down.  — In  the 
Way  I  was  much  edified  by  reading  an  Extradl  out  of 
Bifliop  Hopklns^s  and  Dr.  Ha?}imond's  Sermons  on  the 
Dodlrine  of  the  New  Birth,  and  thought  it  my  Duty 
to  recommend  them  publickly  to  all  my  Friends.  Blef- 
fed  be  God  for  detaining  me  in  England  by  the  Einbargo. — • 
Many  others,  as  vOelL  as  inyfelf,  I  hope,  have  Reafon  to  re- 
joice thereat. — Lord,  teach  me  in  all  Things  /imply  to  com- 
ply With  thy  Will,  without  prejuming  to  fay,  even  in  7ny. 
Heart,  What  doefi  Thou  f 

My  Bondage  of  Corruption  break. 

For  this  my  Spirit  groans  ; 
Thy  only  Will  I  fain  would  feek, 

O  fave  7ne  from  ?ny  own  ! 

€n  Board  the  Elizabeth,   Capt.  Stevenfon  Com- 
mander,  hound  from  England  to  Philadelphia. 

Tuefday  14.  Got  on  board  about  Eight  laft  Night, 
^nd  received  the  following  Letter  from  Thomas  IFebb, 
Clerk  of  the  Parifh  of  Bretforton,  Worcejlerfoire.,  whom 
Mr.  Benjamin  Sev-'ard  mentioned  in  ..  Letter  publiihed  ia 
iay  laft  Journal. 

Reverend  and  worthy  Sir, 

*   Altho'  1  am  unknown  to  vou  iii  Pcrfbn,    yet  as  I 

^  truft  lam,  by  the  Grace  of  God,  avvaken'd  to  a  New 

'  and  Spiritual  Life,  thro'  the  powerful  Influence  of  .your 

\         ■  '  Miniilry, 


8         Mr.  Wh I T  E  F  I  E  L  D*i  Journal 

*  Mlniftry,  I  think  myfelf  under  an  Obiigation  to  givfl 

*  my  Teftimony  to  the  Truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus;    and 

*  to  pay  my  grateful  Acknowledgments  to  the  Freedom 
.*  of  that  divine  Grace,    which  has  made  you  fo  wonder- 

*  fully  inftrumenta!  In  calling  me,   a  mofl  unworthy  Sin- 

*  ner,  at  this  laft  Hour  of  the  Day,  from  a  State  of  Dark- 

*  nefs  and  Infenfibility,    to  the  marvellous  Light  of  his 

*  glorious  Gofpel. — The  Circumftances  of  my  Converfion 

*  were  as  follows. — I  heard  you  was  to  preach  on  Thurf^ 
«  day  the  19th  oi  April  lafl,    at  Mr.  Seward's  of  Badfey, 

*  and  living  at  Bretforton.,    a  Village  about  a  Mile  from 

*  thence  (where  I  have  been  Clerk  of  the  Parifti  for  about 

*  Thirty  Years,  being  now  in  the  63d  Year  of  my  Age) 

*  my  Curiofity,    as  I  then  fhould  have  term'd  it,    but  as 

*  it  is  fmce  evident  by  the  Confequence,    the  wonderful 

*  Goodnefs  and  Providence  of  Almighty  GOD^    led  me  to 

*  hear  you,    which  I  did  with  great  Attention,    and  was 

*  much  afFedled.     The  next  Day,    being  Good-Friday^  I 

*  attended  your  Miniflry  again  with  great  Warmth,  when 

*  you  fpoke  with  fuch  Demonftration  of  the  Spirit,    and 

*  with  Power,  from  thefe  Words,  What  I  fay  unto  yon 
'  I  fay  unto  all.  Watch,  that  I  foon  was  convinced  I  was 
'  in  the  State  of  the  Foolifh  Virgins,  who  were  unpre- 
'  pared  to  meet  the  Bridegroom,  having  all  my  Life 
'  long  taken  up  with  a  Lamp  of  an  outward  Profeffion  ; 

*  thinking-it  fufficient  that  I  duly  and  conflantly  attended 

*  the  publick  Worfhip,  Sacraments,  and  the  like  ;  —  but 
'  I  foon  found,  to  my  great  Confufion,  that  I  had  all  my 

*  Life  long  been  offering  to  God  the  Sacrifice  of  Fools, 

*  being  deflitute  of  the  pure  Oil  of  Grace  in  the  Heart, 

*  which  alone  could  make  me  meet  to  attend  the  Mar- 

*  riagc  Supper  of  the  Lamb, — The  New  Birth, — Juftifi- 
'  cation  by  Faith  only, — The  Want  of  Free-Will  in  Mai^ 

*  to  do  good  V/orks,  without  the  fpecial  Grace  of  God, 

*  and  the  like,  was  as  it  were  new  Language  to  me  ;    for 

*  tho'  I  remcmber'd  the  Lette;  of  thefe  Dodlrines,    yet 

*  the  Spiritual  Senfe  thereof  I  was  an  utter  Stranger  to. — 
'  But  being  very  much  opprefs'd  in  Thought  concerning 

*  thofc  important  Truths  which  you  deliver'd,  as  foon  as 
'  I  returned  Home,    I  (earched  an  old  Expofition  of  the 

*  Catechifm,  the  Church  Articles,  and  Book  of  Homi- 
■  lies,    which  I  found  cxa'£\ly  to  corrcfpond  with  what  I 

*  had 


tn  bbard  the  Elizabeth,  9 

had  heard  deliver'd  by  you. — Some  Days  after  this,  being 
a  Taylor  by  Trade,  I  was  fent  for  to  Work  at  a  little 
Alehoufe  call'd  Contercup^  where  (tho'  one  of  the  laft 
Places  in  which  I  fliould  have  expetled  Food  for  the  Soul) 
the  Man  of  the  Houfe  told  me  he  had  fome  old  Books 

which  he  had  of  one  Mr.  F ,  a  Glazier  and  Plumber 

in  Tewksbury,  who  had  thrown  them  by  in  order  to 
have  fent  them  to  the  Paper-Mill,  as  fit  for  no  other 
Purpofe,  but  that  he  begg'd  thev  might  be  given  ta 
him;  that  he  had  heard  Mr.  Whitefield\  got  his  Ser- 
mon on  the  New  Birth  ;  and  that  thefe  old  Books  fpoke 
to  the  very  fame  Purpofe  as  Mr.  IVhitefield  did.  Upon 
which  I  defired  to  fee  one  of  them,  (the  otiier  being 
then  lent  out)  the  Title  whereof  was,  General  Direcll- 
ons  for  a  comfortable  Walking  with  G  OD,  by  Robert 
Bou/ton,  an  old  Divine  of  our  Church.  I  had  not  read 
long,  before  the  Light  broke  in  upon  my  Soul  with  fuch 
powerful  Evidence,  that  I  was  from  that  Inftant  clearly 
convinced,  and  I  hope,  by  the  Grace  of  God,  deter- 
mined not  to  know  any  Thing,  fave  Jesus  Christ, 
and  him  crucified.  Upon  this  I  avoided  all  carnal  Ac- 
quaintance and  Reafoning  as  much  as  poffiblc,  and  con-» 
ftantly  attended  the  Religious  Society  at  Badfcy,  where, 
by  hearing  your  Sermons,  and  other  Religious  Exer- 
cifcs,  I  daily  was  ftrengthen'd  and  comforted.  Soon  after 
this,  I  got  the  other 'old  Book,  which  was  (o  providen- 
tially preferved  from  the  Paper-Mill,  the  Tide  whereof 
is  as  follows,  Six  Evangelical  Hijlorics. — Water  turned 
into  Wine, — Tbe  Temple's  Purgation, — Chrij'l  and  Ni- 
codemus, — John's  laji  Tejlimony, — Chriji  and  the  Wo- 
7nan  of  Samaria, —  the  Ruhr's  Son  healed 'y — contained  in 
the  Second,  Third,  and  Fourth  Chapters  of  St.  John's 
Gofpel,  open'd  and  bandied  by  the  late  faithful  Servant 
of  God,  Daniel  Dykes,  Bc^tchellor  in  Divini'.y.  Printed 
Anno  Dom.  1617.  This  old  Book  has  been  a  very  grate^ 
ful  Cordial  to  my  Soul ;  and  tho'  I  have  lived  under  the 
Sound  of  the  Gofpcl  for  fo  many  Years,  and  thought  I 
did  not  want  to  be  taught  the  firft  Principles  of  Chri- 
flianity  at  this  Age,  being,  as  I  apprehendeJ,  well 
thought  of  and  elteem'd  by  all  my  Neighbours,  yet  I 
am  fully  convinced,  that  I  knew  nothing  as  I  ought  to 
know,  and  that  the  Gofpel  was  to  me  a  fealed  Book ; 
J3  *  but 


10        Mr.  W  H I T  E  F  I E  L  dV  Jourfial 

'  but  by  the  wonderful  Free  Grace  of  G  o  d,  tho'  I  be- 
'  fore  had  Eyes  and  faw  not,  Ears  and  heard  not,  I  now 
'  read  it  as  the  Savour  of  Life  unto  Life,  and  can  fay  ex^ 
^  perimentally  that  the  Word  of  God  is  a  Light  to  my 
'  Fcet^  and  a  I^antJm-n  to  my  Paths. — For  this  Declara- 
'  tion  of  the  Truth  I  have  fuffcr'd  the  Reproach  and  De- 

*  lifion  of  them  that  were  round  about  me.  But  I  truft, 
'  that  the  Grace  of  God  wJiich  hath  called  me,  when 
^'(o  old  and  dead  in  Trefpafles  and  Sins,  will  alfo  touch 
'  the  Hearts  of  my  Oppofers,  and  work  in  them  both  tOf 
'  ivill  and  to  do  of  his  good  Pleafure.  — I  have  been  evea 
'  threaten'd  with  the  Lofs  of  my  Bread  for  the  Profeflion 

*  of  the  Truth,  but  hope  God  will  turn  the  Hearts  of  my 

*  Enemies.  If  not,  and  it  were  his  bleffed  Will,  I  hope 
'  I  fhould  be  enabled  to  lay  down  my  Lifg  in  Defence  of 

*  that  Gofpel,    which  I  can  truly  fay  is  glad  Tidings  of 

*  great  Salvation  to  my  Soul ;  and  could,  I  think,  be  con- 

*  tent  with  old  Simeon  to  cry  out  in  Tranfport,    Lordy 

*  now  lettc/i  thou  thy  Servant  depart  in  Peace. — The  in- 

*  ward  Light  and  Comfort  I  have  felt  being  to  me  more 
'  miraculous  than  if  I  had  fcen  one  rofe  from  the  Dead. — 

*  May  the  Lord  profper  your  Labours,  and  make  thera 
'  fuccefsful  to  the  turning  many   Souls  to  Righteoufncfs ; 

*  and  as  you  know  in  whom  you  have  believed,    fo  I  am 

*  confident  you  will  join  with  me  in  giving  all  Glory  to. 
'  that  God,  who  I  truft  hath  created  us  a-new  in  Christ 

*  Jesus;  in  whom  I  moil  humbly  and  thankfully  beg 
'  Leave  to  fubfcribe  myfclf 


AugiiJ  II,  1739, 


Tour  mojl  unworthy  Servant, 

Thomas  Weed. 


Rofe  early,  and  fettled  my  Family  Affairs.  — Wrote 
fome  Letters,  and,  after  much  Entreaty,  went  to  Gravef- 
etid;  read  Prayers,  and  preached  at  Mitton  Church  near 
the  Town.— The  Congregation  was  large,  I  fpoke  with 
Freedom,  and  returned  back  to  the  Ship  by  Eight  in  ths 
Evening.  Blefled  be  Goo,  I  was  much  rejoiced  at  re- 
tiring from  the  World.  Oh  that  GOD  may  now  fully 
ftygw  me  v^felf 

Siarck, 


m  board  tlje  Elizabeth,  1 1 

Search^  try^  O  Lord^  my  Reins  and  Hearty 
If  Evil  lurks  in  any  Part ; 
Correal  jne  where  I  go  ajtray. 
And  guide  me  In  thy  perfeii  Way  ! 

Wednefday,  Augujl  15.  Began  to  put  thofe  of  my  Fa- 
rfiily,  who  1.  thought  were  prepared  for  it,  into  Bands.-— 
In  all  we  are  Eight  Men,  Four  Women,  one  Boy,  and 
two  Children,  befides  Mr.  Seward  and  myfelf. — The 
Converfion  of  one  of  the  Men  was  particularly  remark- 
able.— Not  long  fince  he  was  Mafter  of  a  Ship,  which  was 
loft  near  the  Gulph  of  Florida.  —  Providence  was  pleafcd 
to  throw  him  and  his  Crew  upon  a  Sand-Bank,  where 
they  continually  expeded  the  Waters  to  overwhelm  them. 
At  the  End  of  Ten  Days  they  faw  a  Ship,  and  made  a 
Signal  of  Diftrefs. — The  Ship  made  towards  them  ;  the 
Captain  (now  with  me)  went  out  with  his  Boat,  and 
begg'd  for  a  Paffage  for  himfelf  and  Men. — It  was  granted 
him,  on  Condition  he  would  leave  fome  of  his  Crev/  be- 
hind upon  the  Sand-Bank,  but  he  would  not  confent. — At 
length  the  other  Commander  agreed  to  take  all. — But  as 
foon  as  ever  my  Friend  put  off  his  Boat  to  fetch  them, 
the  Commander  of  the  Ship  made  Sail  and  left  them.— 'i 
All  this  feem'd  quite  agalnji,  but  in  the  End  God  fliewed 
it  was  intended yor  the  Good  of  my  Friend, — After  Thirty 
Days  Continuance  upon  the  Sand-Bank,  having  fitted  up 
the  Boat  with  fome  Planks  they  had  took  out  of  a  Ship 
which  had  been  loft  Five  Months  before,  Nine  of  them  com- 
mitted themfelves  to  the  Providence  of  God. — The  others 
cared  not  to  venture  themfelves  in  fo  fmall  a  Boat. — Ha- 
vmg  failed  about  140  Leagues,  they  at  length  came  to 
Tyhy  Ifland,  Ten  Miles  off  Savannah.  —  An  Inhabitant 
being  near  that  Place,  efpied  them,  and  brought  then^ 
Home  with  him.— Being  then  in  Georgia.,  and  inform'd 
of  what  had  happen'd,  I  invited  the  Captain  to  Breakfaft 
•with  me,  and  reminded  him  of  the  Goodnefs  of  God.— • 
He  then  feem'd  ferious,  and  coming  very  providentially 
in  the  fame  Ship  with  me^  when  I  return'd  to  England, 
God  was  pleafed  to  work  more  effe<5lually  upon  his  Soul, 
arii  he  is  now  returning  with  me  to  Georgia  again. — 
Many  Offc^rs  have  been  made  him  to  so  back  into  the 
iS  7,  ■  WQrld. 


\  1        Mr,  W  H  I  T  E  F  I  E  L  D'i  Journat 

World,  but  he  chufes  rather  to  fufter  Affliclion  with  the 
People  of  God. — Moft  of  my  other  AfTiftants  have  left 
good  Places,  and  are  willing  freely  to  fpend  and  be  fpent 
for  the  Good  of  the  Orphan-Houfe  ; — feveral  of  them  have 
already  found,  all  I  hope  are  y^t?/(/V/^  Christ. — We  feem 
perfecftly  fettled  already,  and  whatever  Storms  God  may 
permit  to  attack  us  without,  I  hope  we  Ihall  have  a  con- 
flant  Calm  within  and  among  ouri'ehcs. — Bleffed  be  God, 
I  find  myfelf  compofcd,  and  perfectly  reiign'd,  nay,  much 
rejoiced  at  my  prefent  Situation. Oh  that  I  could  al- 
ways have  no  ether  JVHl  but  G  OD's  ! 

Thurfday^  Augujl  i6.  Had  ftill  greater  Reafon  to  re- 
joice at  the  Regulation  of  my  Family.— Wrote  feveral 
Letters,  and  begun  to  have  publick  Prayers  Morning  and 
Evening,  and  fpent  above  an  Hour  in  examining  and  ex- 
horting my  Fellow  Travellers,  and  went  to  Bed  almoil: 
forgetful  that  1  had  ever  been  out  in  the  World. — For  ever 
blefed  be  GOD's  holy  Name  thro'  CHRIST. 

Friday^  Auguji  17.  Had  a  brisk  Gale,  which  carried 
us  di  redly  thro'  the  Downs. — Sent  feme  Farewel  Letters 
on  Shore,  and  rejoiced  much  in  my  happy  Settlement  on 
Ship-board. — Li  the  Morning,  moft  of  my  Family  were 
fick  ; — 1  did  not  entirely  efcape. — God  enabled  us  to  give 
Thanks,  and  as  we  came  to  fail  more  dire<Sfly  before  the 
Wind,  our  Diforder  gradually  went  off. — I  blefs  God  we 
are  in  good  Order,  and  if  the  Vovage  ends  as  happily  as 
it  begins;  we  fhall  liave  abundant  Reafon  to  blefs  God  for 
it. — Grant  this,  O  Lord^  for  thy  dear  Soft's  Sake. 

Saturday,  Angujl  iB.  Made  but  fmall  Advances  in 
bur  Way,  there  being  little  Wind,  and  that  not  v^ry  fair, 
'till  about  Six  this  Evening,    at  which  Time  it  favour'd 

us  very  much. Was  enlightcn'd   in  reading    God's 

Word.  —  Had  my  Heart  warmed  with  a  Senfe  of  his 
Love  and  diilinguifhing  Mercies. — Was  enlarged  in  pray- 
ing feveral  Tmies  with  and  for  my  Friends,  and  was 
very  earnefl:  witli  God  to  give  me  Grace  to  improve  my 
prefent  Retirement  to  his  Glory,  the  Good  of  his  Church, 
and  the  Edification  of  my  own  Soul. — Perceived  alfo  my 
JJixiiiy  Stiep^th  to  iucxeaic,  .aiid  enjoyed  fuch  an  unfpeal^- 

able 


on  hoard  the  Elizabeth.  13 

able  Peace  and  Tranquility  within,  that  I  was  often  filled 
with  a  holy  Gonfufion,  and  was  obliged  to  retire  to  give 
my  Soul  Vent. — Our  Lord,  I  am  fure,  is  with  us  in  ther 
Ship.  —  0  infinitely  condefcendlng  GOD! 

Sunday^  Augnfl  19.  Adminifter'd  the  Holy  Sacrament 
early  in  the  Morning,  fung  an  Hymn,  and  continued  in 
Prayer  for  near  an  Hour  afterwards,  in  Behalf  of  ourfelves 
and  abfent  Friends. — My  Heart  was  much  melted  down 
and  enlarged. — The  Power  which  was  given  me  was  foon 
communicated  to  my  Companions; — they  fympathized 
and  wept  with  me. —  A  Spirit  of  Love  was  fent  forth 
amongft  us. — May  it  increafe  ever  more  and  more  f 

Both  at  Morning  and  Evening  Prayers,  the  Captain 
and  Ship's  Company  attended  very  orderly. — The  Re- 
mainder of  the  Day  was  fpent  in  Reading,  Prayer,  Sing- 
ing and  Praifing  God. — The  Ship  continued  failing  di- 
re6lly  before  the  Wind,  at  the  Rate  of  about  Five  or  Six 
Miles  an  Hour. — Moft  feem'd  fenfible  of,  and  thankful 
for  the  Divine  Mercies. 

Monday^  Auguft  20.  Fair  Wind  all  Night,  by  which 
our  Ship  was  carried  to  the  Bay  of  Bifcay^  and  went  be- 
fore the  Wind  at  the  Rate  of  Six  Miles  an  Hour,  almoft 
the  whole  Day. — The  Wind  being  brisk,  and  a  great 
Swell  coming  out  of  the  Bay,  moft  of  us  grew  fick,  and 
could  do  little  elfe  but  lie  down  upon  our  Beds. — This  re- 
joiced me  much,  for  1  had  a  glorious  Opportunity  of 
fpending  many  Hours  in  clofe  Communion  with  God,  to 
ask  Pardon  for  the  Defecfts  of  my  publick  Miniftry,  and  to 
pray  for  Strength  to  prepare  me  for  future  Work  and  Trials. 
My  Soul  was  frequently  diffolved  into  Tears.  —  A  Senfe 
of  my  adual  Sins  and  natural  Deformity,  humbled  me 
exceedingly  ; — and  then  the  Freenefs  and  Riches  of  God's 
everlafting  Love  broke  in  with  fuch  Light  and  Power  up- 
on my  Soul,  that  I  was  often  awed  into  Silence,  and 
could  not  fpeak  any  more ! — A  dear  Companion  was  with 
me,  and  helped  me  to  lament,  pray,  and  give  Praife. — 
Oh  the  Comforts  of  Religious  Friendjhip  ! — Sanilify  ity 
O  Lord,  to  ?ne,  for  thy  dear  Son's  Sake, 

Tuefday, 


1 4       Mr.  W  H I  T  E  F  J  E  L  dV  yciirnal 

Tuefday,  Augvft  21.  Contrary  Winds  all  Day,  and 
the  Swell  continued,  which  kept  all  my  Family,  as  well 
as  myfelf,  a  little  fickifh. — I  converfed  with  God  by 
Prayer,  and  liisWord,  moft  of  the  Time;  and  felt  En- 
largement of  Heart  in  the  Evening.  Oh  that  by  converfmg 
vj'ith  GOD  I  may  be  changed  from  Glory  to  Glory  ^  and 
fitted  for  vjhatcver  he  has  appointed  for  me  to  do  or  fuffery 
during  my  Pilgrimage  here  on  Earth  ! 

Saturday,  Augujl  25.  Had  but  little  regular  Sleep  fince 
Tuefday,  the  Wind  continuing  contrary. — Laft  Night  it 
blew  a  hard  Gale, — Moft  of  my  Family  ftill  continued 
fick. — I  waited  on  them  as  well  as  I  could,  and  prayed  to 
God  to  make  me  willing  to  become  the  Servant  of  all.— 
Frequently  interceded  for  abfent  Friends ;  and  remember'd 
thofe  in  particular,  who,  by  their  kind  Prefents,  admini- 
fter'd  much  to  our  Comfort  on  board. — Had  two  or  three 
providential  Conferences  w^ith  the  Captain  of  the  Ship, 
and  fome  of  his  Men. — Read  Dr.  Guife  his  Paraphrafe  on 
the  Evangelift  St  Matthew,  and  think  it  the  beft  I  ever 
met  with. — Endeavour'd  to  keep  clofe  to  God  by  watch- 
mg  unto  Prayer,  for  Diredion  and  Help  in  Time  of 
l^Ieed.' — PVequently  was  enlighten'd  to  fee  the  Pride  and 
Selfifhnefs  of  my  Heart, — and  as  frequently  long'd  for  that 
perfect  Liberty  wherewith  Jesus  Christ  fets  his  Ser- 
vants free. — The  Sea  was  calmer  to  Day  than  before. — 
My  Family  grew  better,  and  we  fpent  near  two  Hours 
this  Evening  in  talking  of  the  inward  State  of  our  Souls, 
and  preparing  for  the  Reception  of  the  bleffed  Sacrament.-r- 
Lord  grant  that  ive  all  may  have  on  the  JVedding  Garment, 

Sunday^  Augufl  26.  Adminiftred  the  Holy  Sacrament 
early  in  the  Morning. —  Spent  the  Remainder  of  the  Day 
in  Reading,  InterceiTion,  i^c, — God  was  pleafed  to  en- 
lighten me  in  Reading  his  Holy  Word. — And  gave  me 
Satisfaction  in  the  Behaviour  of  thofe  about  me.  The 
Wind  was  ftill  contrary,  and  the  Sea  rough  ;  but  1  had  a 
great  Calm  and  Joy  in  my  own  Soul,  How  can  I  be 
thankful  enough  tor  the  glorious  Opportunities  I  now  en- 
joy for  Improvement. — Let  (ill  tkit  is  ivitbin  me  praiff 
Gad's  Holy  Name, 

Monda^t 


m  hoard  the  Elizabeth.  1 1 

Monday,  Auguji  27.  Had  the  Pleafure  of  feeing  thr^ei 
fajiiaica  Ships  come  all  together. — Two  of  which  fpoke^ 
to  us,  and  by  them  we  fent  News  of  our  Situation  to 
England. — Was  much  aflifted  in  writing  an  Account  of 
God's  Dealings  with  me  in  my  Infant  Days,  which  I 
have  prayed  for  Strengtii  to  do  thefe  three  Years,  but  ne- 
ver had  Power  given  me  till  this  Day.— 'Blelled  be  God, 
the  Weather  was  more  calm,  the  Wind  more  fair,  and 
my  Family  better  ;  fo  that  I  truft  we  fhall  receive  Strength 
to  bear  future  Crofles. — As  yet  this  is  the  moft  comfort- 
able Voyage  I  have  made. — Ob  that  Inwy  gmv  in  Grace, 
0nd  then  my  Happ'inefs  will  emreafe  daily  ! 

Tuefday,  AuguJl  28.  Calm  Weather  and  fmooth  Sea. — •. 
Was  aflifted  in  Reading  the  Holy  Scriptures. — Rejoiced 
much  in  the  good  Behaviour  of  thofe  about  me. —  One 
Part  of  the  Day  felt  fome  irregular  Paflion  arife  in  my 
Heart,  but  in  the  Evening  was  fo  vifited  from  above, 
that  my  Soul  was  quite  confounded  in  the  Senfe  of  the 
Divine  Goodnefs. — This  Day  Twelvemonth  I  left  Sa- 
vannah.— Lord,  how  haji  thou  multiplied  thy  Mercies  up- 
»n  me  fince  that  Time. — And  yet  thou  doji  Jiill  delight  to 
honour  me,  and  makcjl  this  Retirenient  fofweet  and  profit- 
able to  my  Soul,  that  my  only  Fear  is  lejl  it  jljould  he  ever 
toofoon. —  But  my  Time  is  in  thy  Hands. — Lor d^  let  me 
have  no  Will  of  my  own  for  thy  dear  Son's  Sake  ! 

Friday,  Augufi  31.  Very  light  Winds  for  two  Dayt 
laft  paft,  and  an  entire  Calm  to  Day. — But  I  had  many 
Inward  Struglings. — I  could  do  nothing  but  lay  my  felf 
down  and  offer  my  Soul  up  to  God. — At  Night  I  prayed 
"With  ftrong  Cryings  and  many  Tears,  before  all  my  Fa- 
mily, for  them  and  all  thofe  dear  People  -wiio  have  re- 
commended themfelves  to  my  Prayers. — Afterwards  my 
Soul  received  Comfort. —  Oh  that  thefe  inu/ard  Confiicfs 
may  purge,  humble  and  purify  my  polluted,  proud  and 
treacherous  Heart  I  Let  all  that  love  me  fay.  Amen. 

I  obferve  thefe  inward  Trials  always  follow  inward 
Communications. — For  thefe  two  Days  laft  paft  I  have 
been  much  affifted. — Left  I  ihould  be  puffed  up,  and  that 
my  Mind  may  be  prepared  to  receive  greater  Degrees  of 

Light, 


i6       Mr.  W H 1  T  E  F I  E  L  D'i  'Joumol. 

Light,  God  out  of  Love  has  fent  me  a  Thorn  in  th© 
Flcfh. — Lord  grant  this  Loving  Correction  of  thine  may 
make  me  truly  GREAT!  Amen,  LO  RD  JESUS, 
Amen. 

Sunday^  September  1.  Still  very  light  Winds  and  fair 
Weather. — Weak  and  fick  in  Body  thefe  tw^o  Days. — 
Adminiftred  the  Holy  Sacrament  in  the  Morning. — Had 
publick  Prayers  as  ufual. — All  attended  very  orderly  ;  and 
Something  of  a  Face  of  Religion  (as  I  was  told)  was  to  be 
feen  through  the  whole  Ship. — Examined  particularly  in 
the  Evening  into  the  inward  State  of  my  Companions. — 
BlefTed  be  God,  I  hope  we  grow  in  Grace,  and  learn  mora 
and  more  to  bear  one  another's  Burdens. —  Grant  we  may 
/or  ever  thus  fulfil  thy  Law,  0  C  H  R  I S  T. 

Saturday,  September  8.  Advanced  about  a  Hundred 
Leagues  this  Week  in  our  Way  towards  Philadelphia.—' 
Boiftrous  Weather  moft  part  of  the  Time,  which  caufed 
many  of  us  to  be  fick  again. — Finifhed  the  Account  of  my 
Life  beforementioned,    and   was  preffed  in  Spirit  to  print 

it. —  Father,  hlefs  it  for  thy  dear  Son's   Sake. Had  as 

deep  a  Senfe  of  Sin,  and  iny  in-bred  Corruptions,  as  ever 
I  had  in  my  Life. — I  groan  daily  to  be  fet  at  Liberty. — 
Dearejl  Redeemer.,  I  come  unto  thee  zueary  and  heavy  laden, 
O  do  thou  bring  me  into  the  full  Freedom  of  the  Sons  of 
GOD! 

,  Sunday,  Septc77iber  9.  Had  a  comfortable  Sacrament, 
and  a  Love-Feaft  afterwards,  at  which  we  were  not  un- 
mindful to  pray  for  our  dear  Friends  on  Shore. — Read 
publick  Prayers,  and  expounded,  as  ufual,  to  the  Ship's 
Company  in  the  Morning  ;  but  gave  a  Quaker  Preacher 
t»n  board  (at  his  Defirc)  the  Ufe  of  my  Cabbin  in  the  Af- 
ternoon.— All  attended  very  gravely. — He  fpoke  chiefly 
concerning  the  falfe  Pretences  and  Education  of  thofe  who 
run  before  they  arc  called  of  God  into  the  Miniftry  of  the 
Church  o^  England. — JVo  be  unto  thofe  that  give  the  Ad- 
iierfaries  Leave  thus  to  fpeak  reproachfully  of  us  ;  //  had 
been  better  for  them  iftht-y  had  ngver  been  horn. 

Saturday^ 


m  board  the  Elizabeth.  17 

;  Saturday,  September  15.  Had  a  pleafant  Profpe^l  to 
Day  of  fome  of  the  Weftern  Iflands, — Gave  myfelf  to 
Reading  the  Word  of  God,  and  to  Prayer,  the  greateft 
Part  of  this  Week. — Was  viiited  with  frequent  inward 
Trials. —  Had  many  Things  on  my  Heart  to  write,  but 
am  as  yet  with-held. — Ended  the  Week  comfortably  with 
iny  Family,  and  was  exceedingly  firengthen'd  in  read- 
ing Profeflbr  Frank's  Account  of  the  Orphan-Houfe  at 
Hall,  near  Glaucha. — It  feems,  in  many  Circumftances, 
to  be  fo  exadlly  parallel  to  my  prefcnt  Undertaking  for 
the  Poor  of  Georgia,  that  I  truft  the  Orphan-Houfe  about 
to  be  ereded  there,  will  be  carried  on  and  ended  with  the 
like  Faith  and  Succefs.     Amen.  Avien. 

Sunday,  Sept.  1 6.  Adminiftred  the  Sacrament,  and 
had  a  Love-Feaft  afterwards. — Expounded,  as  ufual,  at 
Morning  and  Evening  Prayer,  and  the  Power  of  God 
was  amongft  us. — The  Day  was  calm  and  clear, — and 
tho'  we  do  not  go  forward  much  in  our  Courfe,  yet  I 
truft  we  (hall  every  Day  be  fitted  more  and  more  for  thofe 
various  Turns  of  Providence  which  I    expe6l  we  {hall 

meet    with    when   we   come   to   Shore. Thy  Grace, 

O  Lord,  tvill  be  mare  than  fufficient  for  us.  Amen,  Lord 
JESUS,  Amcn: 

Saturday,  Sept,  22.  Underwent  inexprefiible  Agonies 
of  Soul  for  two  or  three  Days,  at  the  Remembrance  of 
my  Sins,  and  the  bitter  Confequences  of  them. — Surely 
my  Sorrows  were  fo  great,  I'.at  had  not  God,  in  the 
midjt  of  them,  -comforted  my  Soul,  the  Load  would  have 
been  unfupportable  !  All  the  while  I  was  afllired  God 
h^d  forgiven  me,  but  I  could  not  forgive  jnyfelf,  for  fm- 
riing  againfl  fo  much  Light  and  Love.  I  felt  ibmething 
of  that  which  Adam  felt  when  turned  out  ofParadife; 
David,  when  he  was  convided  of  his  Adultery  ;  and 
Peter,  when  with  Oaths  and  Curfes  he  had  Thrice  de- 
nied his  Marten  I  then,  if  ever,  did  truly  fmite  upon 
my  ungrateful  Breaft,    and  cry,    GOD  he  merciful  to  me 

a  Sinner  ! 1  ate  but  very  little,    and   went  mourning 

all  the  Day  long.     At  length,    my  Lord  looked  upon  me 

and  with  that  Look  broke  my  Rocky   Heart,    and  Floods 

C  of 


i8       Mr,  W H I T  E  F I E  L d'j  'journal 

of  contrite  Tears  gufhed  out  before  my  whole  Family, 
and  indeed  7  wept  moft  hhtcrly  ! — When  in  this  Condi- 
tion, I  wonder'd  not  at  Peter's  running  fo  flowly  to  the 

Sepulchre,    when  loaded   with   the  Senfe  of  his  Sin. 

Alas  !  a  Confideration  of  aggravated  Crimes  quite  took  ofF 
my  Chariot-Wheels,  and  I  drove  fo  exceeding  heavily, 
that  was  I  always  to  fee  myfelffuch  a  Sinner  as  I  am,  and 
as  I  did  then,  without  feeing  the  Saviour  of  Sinners,  I 
fliould  not  fo  much  as  be  able  to  look  up. 

This  latter  Part  of  the  Week,  bleffed"  be  the  Lord,  he 
has  reftored  me  to  the  Light  of  his  Countenance,  and  en- 
larged my  Heart  to  write  freely,  and  praife  him  with  joy- 
ful Lips. — Our  Ship  being  got  Southwardly  into  the 
Trade-Winds,  and  the  Weather  warm,  I,  and  fome  of 
my  Companions,  lay  upon  Deck. — We  had  the  Holy  Sa- 
crament on  the  Feillval  of  St.  Matthew  ;  and  tho'  we 
are  like  to  have  a  long,    yet  I  trufl  it  will  be  a  profitable 

Voyage  to  our  Souls. Blejfed  be  GOD  that  he  doesjiill 

ehajleyi  and  correii  me,  and  not  give  mc  over  unto  Eternal 
Death. — It  is  good  for  me  to  be  thus  affi'iLfed,  for  thereby  I 
get  an  experimental  Knowledge  of  GOD's  Law. — Praifa 
the  Lord,  O  my  Soid  ! 

Sunday,  September  23.  Had  a  fweet  Sacrament,  anc! 
Love-Feaft  afterwards  j  — Was  much  ftrengthen'd,  both 
in  my  Morning  and  Evening  Exercifes,  and  felt  fuch  un- 
fpeakablc  Comfort  and  Warmth  of  Heart  towards  my 
abfent  Friends,  as  made  me  for  a  while  forget  the  Anguifh 
I  lately  felt  ;  but  at  Night,  a  Senfe  of  my  Sins  weighed 
me  down  again,  and  I  mourned  in  my  Prayer,  and  was 
vexed. — Alas  !  how  are  they  miitaken,  that  go  out  of  the 
World  to  avoid  Temptations. —  I  never  am  fo  much 
tempted,  as  when  confined  on  Ship-board.  A  Mercy 
this  from  God,  to  keep  me  in  Adion,    and  prepare  me 

for  future  Bleflings. Luther  fays,  lie  never  undertook 

any  frcfh  Work,  but  he  was  either  vifued  with  a  Fit  of 
Sicknefs,  or  fome  ftiong  Temptation.- Prayer,  Me- 
ditation, and  Temptation  are  neceflary  Accomplifhments, 
in  his  Account,  for  every  Miniiter. — May  I  follow  him  as 
ke  did  CHRIST/ 

Saturday 


m  hoard  the  Elizabeth,  19 

Saturday,  September  29.  Aflminifter'd  the  Holy  Sa- 
crament this  Morning. — Had  fair  Winds,  and  lay  upon 
Deckwith  my  Companions  the  greateft  Part  of  the  Week. 
Have  been  much  ftrengthen'd  and  alTifted  in  writing  every 
Day,  an  ample  Recompence  for  the  Trials  of  the  laft 
Week. — Thus  does  God  fometimes  humble,  and  fome- 
tlmes  exalt,  and  by  all  his  Difpenfations  perfect  the  rege- 
nerate Soul. — Had  little  Time  for  Reading,  but  this  Af-^ 
ternoon  was  exceedingly  ftrengthen'd  by  perufmg  fomq 
Paragraphs  out  of  a  Book  call'd  The  Preacher^  written  by 
Dr.  Edwards  of  Cambridge^  and  extraded  by  Mr.  Jona- 
than JFarn,  in  his  Books,  entitled.  The  Church  of  Eng- 
land-Man turned  Dijfenter,  and  Arm'inianifm  the  Back- 
Door  to  Popery. — There  are  fuch  noble  Teftimonies  given 
before  that  Univerfity,  of  Juftification  by  Faith  only, 
the  imputed  Righteoufnefs  of  Christ,  our  having  no 
Free-will,  Is'c.  that  they  deferve  to  be  written  in  Letters 
of  Gold. — I  fee  more  and  more  the  Benefit  of  leaving 
written  Teftimonies  behind  us,  concerning  thefe  impor- 
tent  Points. — They  not  only  profit  the  prefent,  but   will 

alfo  much  edify  the  future  Age. Lord,    open  thou  my 

Mouth,  that  I  may  henceforward  /peak  more  boldly  and  ex^ 
plicitely,  as  I  ought  to /peak  ! 

Sunday,  Sept.  30.     Adminifter'd  the  Holy  Sacrament, 

and  had  a  Love-Feaft. Expounded  with  Power  in  the 

Morning  to  the  Sailors,  and  lent  my  Cabbin  to  the  Quaker 
Preacher  in  the  Afternoon. — He  fpoke  with  much  Ear- 
neftnefs,  but  in  my  Opinion  his  Foundation  was  wrong.— 
He  feem'd  to  make  the  Light  of  natural  Confcience,  and 
the  Holy  Spirit,  one  and  the  fame  Thing,  and  reprefented 
Christ  within,  and  not  Christ  without,  as  the  Foun- 
dation of  our  Faith  ;— whereas  the  outward  Righteoufnefs 
of  Jesus  Christ  imputed  to  us,  I  believe,  is  the  fole 
Fountain  an4  Caufe  of  all  the  inward  Communications 
which  we  receive  from  the  Spirit  of  God.' — Oh  that  all 
of  that  Pcrfuafion  were  convinced  of  this  ;  'till  they  are^ 
they  cannot  preach  the  Truth  as  it  is  in  JESUS. 

Saturday,  Osfober  6.     Contrary  Winds  moft  Part  of 

this  Week,  and  made  a  very  flow  Progrefs  towards  Phila- 

C  2         ■  delphia,-^ 


50       Mr.  Wh  I T  E  F  I  E  L  d'j  Jourual 

ddphia. — Had  great  Affiftance  in  Writing,  and  ftrong 
Convi£lions  of  my  pauSins. — Held  a  clofe  Band  for  fome 
Hours  this  Evening  with  my  whole  Family,  wherein  we 
open'd  our  Hearts,  confefs'd  our  Faults  to,  and  pray'd  for 
one  another. — Do  tbou^  0  great  mid  7nighty  Fhyficimi  of 
Souls,  hear  and  heal  us.     Amen  and  Amen. 

Sunday,  OSIober  7.    Adminifter'd  the  Holy  Sacrament, 

■ — Had   a  Love-Feaft,  and  expounded,    as  ufual. The 

Wind  blowing  very  frefti,  the  Ship-Men  were  obliged  to 
attend  the  Sails,  and  fo  could  not  come  to  Publick  Wor- 
fhip. — Sailed  fometimes  near  Nine  Miles  an  Hour,  for 
which  we  endeavoured  to  praifc  the  Lord. — Had  comfort- 
able Communion  with  God,  in  interceding  for  our  dear 
Friends  on  Shore,  and  at  Night  felt  fuch  Freedom  in  my 
Spirit  from  a  Load  I  laboured  under,  as  caufed  me  to 
break  out  into  many  Thankfgivings  to  God. — Every 
Day  more  and  more  convinces  me  that  the  Lord  will 
fulfil  the  Defires  of  tliem  that  fear  him. — He  is  the  Fa- 
ther of  Mercies  ;— He  is  the  God  of  all  Confolations ;— He 
can  create  Comfort  out  of  nothing,  and  bring  Light  and 
Order  out  of  the  greateft  Confufion. —  This  my  Soul 
knoweth  right  well. — O  wv  Soul  be  not  Jlack  to  praife 
Him  and  love  Him  for  ever  and  ever  f 

T'uejday,  Qclaber  9.  This  Morning  our  whole  Ship's 
Company  was  brought  to  an  Allowance  of  Bread.  Two 
Biskets  a  Day  for  each  Perfon  ; — but,  blefled  be  God, 
thro'  the  Bounty  of  Friends  at  England,  as  yet  my  Fa- 
mily have  got  Provlllons  enough. — The  Lord,  in  Return^ 
feed  our  BenefaSlors  with  that  Bread  ivhich  corntth  doivn 
from  Heaven  ! 

Friday,  O^oher  12.  Kept  a  Family  Faft  this  Day, 
that  we  might  afflidl  ourfelves  brfore  our  God,  to  feek  a 
light  Way  fOr  us  and  our  little  ones,  and  for  all  our  Sub- 
Hancc. —  I  truft  it  was  fuch  a  Faft  as  the  Lord  would 
chufe. — His  Divine  Prefence  was  amongit  us,  and  we  had 
good  Reafon  to  hope  and  believe  that  the  Lord  was  entreat- 
ed for  us. — Oh  that  xve  may  find  more  and  more  Reafon 
i'^  fay  fo  when  we  come  on  Shore.  I  dread  going  into  the 
U'^rlcl:  But  wherefore  do  1  far  F-^Lcrd,    I  beliiVi  (Oh 

kip 


endoardthelBXizabcth.^  21 

help  my  Unbelief)  that  thou  wilt  keep  me  unjpotted  from 
it, 

Saturday,  OHobcr  13.  Still  GoD  is  pleafed  to  fend 
us  contrary  Winds,  but  very  warm  and  pleafant  Wea- 
ther.— The  Power  of  Writing  has  been  in  a  great  Meafur* 
taken  from  me,  but  God  has  been  with  me  in  Reading, 
Expounding,  and  my  other  Exercifes  of  Devotion. — I 
have  experienced  fome  blefled  Teachings  of  his  Holy  Spi- 
rit, in  convi^ing  me  of  the  Pride,  Senfuality,  and  Blind-^ 
nefs  of  my  own  Heart,  and  of  the  Advantages  Satan  has 
gain'd  over  me  by  working  ox).  them. — I  have  alfo  been 
more  enlighten'd  to  fee  into  the  Myflery  of  Godlinefs, 
God  manifeft  in  the  Flefh,  and  behold  more  and  more  o£ 
God's  Goodnefs  in  letting  me  have  this  Time  of  Retire- 
ment to  fearch  out  my  Spirit.  —  I  would  not  but  have 
come  this  Voyage  for  a  Thoufand  Worlds ;  it  has  been 
fweet  and  profitable  to  my  Soul. — The  Length  and  Con- 
tinuance of  It  highly  delights  me. Lord^    I  want  t0 

knozv  }7jyfelf  and  Thee.  Oh  let  not  the  Hurry  of  Bufinefs^ 
tvhich  awaits  me  on  Shore,  prevent  my  hearing  the  fmall 
Jlill  Voice  of  thy  Holy  Spirit. — Enable  me,  as  thou  didfl  thy 
Servant  Enoch,  whether  in  publick  or  private  Lifgy  to 
walk  with  Thee,  my  God  ! 

Sunday,  October  14.  Felt  God's  Power  with  us,  both 
at  Sacrament  and  publick  Worfliip  Morning  and  Even- 
ing.— Was  enlarged  in  Interceflion,  and  had  Reafon  to 
believe  there  was  a  fweet  Communion  kept  up  between 
us  and  our  Friends  on  Shore.— The  AfTurance  of  their 
Prayers  often  lifts  up  my  Hands  when  they  hang  down, 
and  ftrengthens  my  feeble  Knees. — The  Profpe£t  of  the 
many  Changes  and  Trials  which  I  mufl  neceflarily  be 
expofed  to  and  undergo,  fometimes  fills  me  with  Fear 
and  Trembling;  but  when  I  refledl  that  God  has  ftirr'd 
up  the  Hearts  of  K's  choiceft  Servants  to  pray  for  me,  my 
Fears  vanifh.  Methinks,  I  could  then  leap  into  a  burning 
fiery  Furnace,  or  bear  to  be  thrown  into  a  Den  of  de- 
vouring Lions. — Lord,  make  me  thus  minded  in  the  Hour 
of  Trial !  —  My  dear  Friends ,  continue  to  pray  for  met 
tlut  my  Faith  fail  not. 

♦  Saturday^ 


22       Mr.  Whitefield'j  Jmrnal 

Saturday^  OSluher  1 9.  On  Tuefday  and  Wednefdaf 
had  the  rougheft  Weather  we  have  yet  met  with,  but  the 
iatter  Part  of  the  Week  has  been  warm  and  calm. — All 
our  frcfli  live  Stock  of  every  Kind  is  now  gone,  but  thro* 
tlie  Divine  Bounty  in  raifing  us  Friends,  we  have  not 
only  Food  enough  for  ourfelves,  but  fome  to  fpare  to  the 
Ship's  Company. — My  being  on  board  is  every  Day  more 
and  more  comfortable. — I  experience  frefh  Teachings  and 
Communications  from  God's  Holy  Spirit,  and  have  re- 
ceived fome  remarkable  Anfwers  to  Prayer,  both  in  re- 
fpecl  to  myfelf  and  Family. — We  are  moft  of  us  lufty  as 
Eagles,  and  eat  our  Bread  with  Gladnefs  and  Singlenefs 
of  Heart. — The  Lord  is  pleafed  to  fill  me  out  of  his  Di- 
vine Fulnefs,  and  to  fbevv  me  more  of  the  Glories  of  the 
upper  World. — I  can  never  be  thankful  enough  for  this 
fwect  Retreat. — How  wonderfully  does  the  great  and  in- 
finitely wife  God  caufe  every  Thing  to  work  together 
ibr  our  Good!  —  I  want  a  Thoufand  Tongues  to  praife 
\\\m..-—Lct  every  Thing  that  hath  Breath  pratfe  the  Lard. 

Saturday^  OHolcr  27.  Came  into  Soundings  on  Sun- 
day laft ;  faw  Land  on  Monday^  and  were  within  a  fev^ 
Leagues  of  Capen  Lopc77,  which  opens  into  the  Bay  whi- 
ther we  are  bound ;  but  Providence  was  pleafed  to  keep 
us  back  by  contrary  Winds.  Met  with  a  Jamaica  Brigg 
on  Thurfday,  and  had  an  Opportunity  of  fending  a  Packet 
by  her  to  my  dear  Friend  Mr.  NohJe  of  AW  York. — 
Came  within  Sight  of  the  Land  again  to  Day,  but  ftill 
are  kept  back. — Blcfled  be  God  I  am  quite  refign'd  ;  I 
]ove  my  Retirement  too  well  to  be  fond  of  leaving  it  till 
the  Lord  Wills. — Our  Provifions  grow  fcanty,  the  Peopl^ 
are  put  to  an  Allowance  of  about  half  a  Pound  of  Beef  for 
each  in  a  Day,  and  we  have  diminifhed  our  Family  Stock 
in  helping  them.- -In  this  we  rejoice. — However,  blcfled 
be  God,  we  have  got  Plenty  of  Water,  and  very  fair 
W'eather,  and  my  Family  I  think  was  never  in  better 
Order  in  refpeft  to  their  Bodies  or  Souls. — The  Lord  has 
been  eipecially  gracious  unto  me,  as  he  always  is  in  the 
Tune  of  any  Neceflity.  He  has  been  pleafed  to  give  rne 
great  Freedom  ifl  writing,  and  has  vouchfafed  me  fuch 
pjentifiil    Communications  from  himfelf,    that  I  have 

abundant 


on  hoard  the 'EXizdbdh.  2^ 

abundant  Reafon  to  cry  out.    Surely   GOD   is  in  thl^ 
Place! 

Lo!  GOD  is  here  !  My  Soul,  adore 
And  own  how  dreadful  is  this  Place  ! 

Let  all  luithin  thee  feel  his  Power  ^ 
In  Silence  bow  before  his  Face ; 

To  Him  let  all  thy  Thoughts  arifc^ 

Ceafelefs  accepted  Sacrifice  ! 

Sunday,  OSlober  28.  Felt  more  of  the  Divine  AOtrt- 
ance  to  Day,  than  I  have  fince  I  have  been  on  board. — 
I  have  been  engaged  in  vi^riting  my  extempore  Sermon  ow 
the  Marriage  of  Cana.  —  The  Holy  Ghoft  brought 
many  Things  to  my  Remembrance;  and  tho'  I  have  well 
drunk  of  Divine  Comforts  fince  my  Retirement  already, 
yet  I  may  fay  with  the  Governor  of  the  Feaft,  Lord,  thou 
hafi  kept  the  good  Wine  until  Now.  Hajlefi  that  Time., 
O  Lord,  when  I  Jhall  drink  it  new  in  thy  Heavenly  King- 
dom ! 

Monday,  OSlober  29.  Had  a  fweet  Opportunity  of- 
fer'd  me  to  Day  of  giving  a  few  Sermons,  and  fomething 
out  of  my  little  Stock  of  Provifions  to  a  Captain  of  a  Sloop 
and  his  Company,  who  had  been  driven  to  great  Extre- 
mity. Oh  hoiv  gently  does  GOD^deal  with  me  and  ?ninef 
How  has  he  confider*d  our  Weaknefs,  and  not  permitted  us 
to  fall  into  great  Dangers  or  Wants. — Blejfed  be  his  iJame 
fgr  everinore.     Amen  !  Amen  ! 

PetT/ikania.     Leivis  Town. 

Tuefday,  OSlober  30.  Had  fweet  Communion  with 
God  laft  Night. — Pray'd  with,  exhorted,  and  folemnlyr 
recommended  my  Family  to  the  Grace  of  our  Lord  JE- 
SUS, expecting  to  go  on  Shore  this  Morning. — Being 
near  Capen  Lopen,  a  Pilot  came  on  Board,  in  whofe  Boat 
Brother  Seward,  myfelf,  and  anothei  dear  Friend,  went 
to  Lewis  Town,  in  order  that  we  might  go  to  PhiladA- 
phia  by  Land,  and  get  a  Houfe  in  Readinefs  before  the 
Ship  arrived  at  that  Place. — Whilft  in  the  Boat,  I  hope 
each  of  our  Hearts  was  filled  with  a  Senfe  of  God's  Love. 

anj 


54-       J^^'  Wh  I  t  e  f  I  e  l  d'j  Joiirnai 

and  when  we  reached  Lewis  Town  about  Evening,  I  took 
the  firft  Opportunity  of  retiring,  to  vent  my  Heart  in 
Praifes  and  Thankfgiving  for  his  abundant   Mercies  con- 

ferr'd  on  me  and  mine. Oh  how   can  I  be  thankful 

enough  for  his  bleffed  Voyage !  I  have  been  on  board 
uft  Eleven  Weeks,  but  they  have  feemed  to  me  only  as 
o  many  Days. —  My  inner  Man  has  been  much  better'd 
by  it. — My  Knowledge,  I  truft,  in  Spiritual  Things  en- 
creafed,  my  Underftanding  cnlighten'd  to  fee  my  Cor- 
ruptions, and  my  Heart  much  enlarged  in  writing  Letters, 
and  other  Things. — The  Remembrance  of  my  Humilia- 
tions is  fweet  unto  my  Soul,  and  the  Freedom  which  God 
has  given  me  over  fome  darling  Failings  fills  me  with  Joy 
unfpeakable  and  full  of  Glory.  My  Family  alfo  have 
great  Reafon  to  be  thankful. — God  has  been  pleafed  to 
work  on  many  of  their  Hearts,  and  1  believe  none  of 
them  repent  leaving  their  native  Country.  A  remarkable 
Alteration  is  to  be  feen  in  two  Friend's  Children,  a  Boy 
and  a  Girl,  .which  I  brought  with  me. — They  are  little 
more  than  three  Years  old,  and  can  read  in  the  Primmer, 
and  fing  Part  of  Kcmi's  Hymns  very  prettily. —  They 
have  born  the  Voyage  better  than  any  in  the  Ship,  and 
are  under  careful  Difciplinc.  They  are  both  generally 
cmploy'd  either  in  Working  or  Reading,  and  are  taught 
to  make  Work  their  Diverfion. —  The  little  Boy  picks 
Peafe,  and  the  little  GirU  fews  with  her  Needle.  —  The 
Proficiency  they  have  made  gives  me  great  Satisfaction,  . 
and  I  hope  is  an  Earneft  of  the  Improvement  that  will  be 
feen  in  the  poor  Children  that  are  fhortly  to  be  committed 
to  my  Care. — I  cannot  fay  any  remarkable  Converfions 
have  been  wrought  on  board,  but  many  have  had  ftrong 
Convictions  ;  Lord^  caufe  the?n  to  end  in  found  Coyiver- 
f.ons  !  Amen.  But  to  return.  About  Five  in  the  Even- 
ing, we  landed  at  Lewis  Toivn^  fituated  in  the  Southern  ' 
Part  of  the  Province  of  Penfihnnia^  and  about  150  mea- 
furcd  Englijh  Miles  from  Pbiludelpbia.  The  Houfes  arc. 
moft  of  them  built  of  Wood  ;  it  is  not  above  half  fo  big, 
but  more  plentiful,  in  refpeCl  ofProvifion,  than  Savan- 
?tah  in  Georgia.  We  had  not  been  long  in  the  Inn,  but 
(3 CD  foon  (hewed  us  he  had  prepared  our  Way  ;  for  News 
liad  been  brought  a  Fortnight  ago  of  my  coming  hither, 
and  two  or  three  of  the  chief  Inhabitants  being  apprized 

of  . 


at  PENS  I LF  AMI  A.         25 

of  my  Arrival,  came  and  fpent  the  Evening  with  us.  -  and 
defued  me  to  give  them  a  Sermon  on  tlie  Morrow,  wiiich 
I  promifed  to  do. — We  fuppcd  very  comfortably  together, 
and  after  Prayers,  and  linging  with  the  Family,  I  and 
my  dear  Companions  went  to  Reft,  admiring  more  and 
more  the  Goodnefs  and  Providence  of  the  All-wife  God. 
He  is  the  great  Houlholder  of  the  whole  World,  and  I 
look  upon  all  Places  and  Perfons  as  fo  many  little  Parts  of 
his  great  Family. — 1  pray  to  him  before  I  go,  and  I  find 
in  Anfwer  to  my  Prayer,  he  always  commands  fome  or 
other  of  his  Houfhold  to  take  Care  of,  and  provide  for 
me. — As  here's  the  fame  Sun,  fo  here's  the  fame  God  in 
America  as  in  England. — 1  blefs  God  all  Places  are  equal 
to  me,  fo  I  am  where  God  would  have  me  to  be.  I  hope 
I  Ihall  never  account  myfelf  at  Home,  till  I  arrive  at  my 
Heavenly  Father's  Houfe  above. — My  Heart  is  there  al- 
ready. I  long  to  fhake  off  this  Earthly  Tabernacle. — It 
fadly  confines  my  Soul. — However,  I  defire  patiently  to 
tarry  till  my  blelTed  Change  comes. — 1  would  not  defire 
to  reign  till  I  have  fuffer'd  with  my  Mafter.  Heaven 
will  be  doubly  fweet  when  I  am  worn  out  with  DiftrelTes 
and  Perfecutions  for  the  Sake  of  Jesus  Christ. — Lord^ 
grant  I  may  continiially  be  looking  up  to  the  Glory  which  is 
to  be  revealed  hereafter,  and  then  deal  with  me  as  it  feem- 
€th  good  in  thy  Sight,  during  my  Pilgrimage  here. 

If  Rough  and  Thorny  be  my  Way, 
My  Strength  proportion  to  my  Day  ; 
1         'jf/V/  Toil  and  Grief,  and  Pain  Jhall  ceafe^ 
Where  all  is  calm,  and  Joy  and  Peace  I 

Wednefday,  O£iober  31.  Spent  the  Morning  in  Writ- 
ing, and  fent  fome  Pruvifions  on  board  for  my  Fellow- 
TravelJers. — Wrote  fome  Letters,  and  preached  at  two 
in  the  Afternoon  to  a  ferious  and  attentive  Congregation.-— 
Perfons  of  different  Denojnmations  were  prefent ;  and,  as 
I  heard  afterwards,  were  much  aftetSted.  Some  I  oblerved 
to  weep,  and  the  Congregation  WiiS  larger  than  might  be 
expedlied  in  fo  fmall  a  Place,  and  at  fo  ihort  Notice.  After 
Sermon,  the  High  Sheriff,  Collector,  and  chief  Men  of 
the  Place,  came  and  cook  an  afFe»^lonate  Leave  of  me ; 
D  and 


^6      Mr.  W H I T  E  F I  E  L  D'i  ^oumal 

and  by  their  means  being  provided  with  Horfes  and  a  Guide 
for  our  Journey  at  a  reafonable  Expence,  about  five  ia 
the  Evening  we  left  Lewis  Town,  and  rode  very  plea- 
fantly  near  27  Miles  through  the  Woods.  About  10  we 
called  at  what  they  call  a  Tavern,  which  was  not  very 
commodious ;  but  the  Hoft  and  Hoftefs  were  plain  well- 
meaning  People. — They  made  us  a  Cake  of  unleavened 
Bread,  let  us  have  a  little  Cyder,  and  a  few  Eggs,  and 
we  went  to  Bed  rejoicing  in  all  the  Mercies  of  God.  I 
know  not  when  I  have  felt  more  Intenfenefs  of  Love,  Peace 
and  Joy  in  my  Soul  fmce  I  left  England  J  How  does  God 
delight  to  vifit  us  when  we  are  out  of  the  World!  Oh 
that  my  Heart  may  he  made  jnect  for  fuch  a  divine  Gueji 
to  reftde  in  !  Amazing  that  the  high  and  lofty  one  that  in- 
habiteth  Eternity  Jhould  condefcend  to  dwell  in  Earthly  Ta- 
bernacles !  What  Jhall  I  fay  unto  thee,  O  thou  Prcferver  of 
Men  ?  I  am  lojl  in  Wonder  !  A  Senfc  of  thy  Mercies 
Jirikes  me  dumb  I 

A  guilty.,  zvcak  and  helplcfs  TForm^ 

Into  thy  Arms  I  fall ; 
Be  thou  my  Strength  and  Righteoifnefsy 

My  Jefus  and  my  All! 

Thurfday^  November  I.  Set  out  from  our  little  Inn  a- 
bout  eight;  dined  at  Dover,  a  little  Town  (19  Miles  di- 
iknt  from  our  Lodging)  from  whence  (having  left  a  few 
Books)  we  rode  as  pleafantly  and  with  as  much  Eafe  as 
;ho'  we  were  riding  through  Hide  Park. — About  eight 
in  the  Evening  we  came  to  a  more  convenient  Inn,  near 
50  Miles  diftant  from  the  Place  where  we  lay  laft  Night. 
Our  Lord  was  with  us  as  we  came  on  our  Way. — Our 
Hearts  burnt  within  us  whilft  we  talked  to  one  another  in 
Pfalms  and  Hymns  and  Spiritual  Songs. — Oh  how  glori- 
oufly  mult  the  Children  of  Ifracl  pafs  tiirough  the  Wil- 
dernefs,  when  tbev  faw  God's  Prefencc  go  along  with 
them. — Lord  let  it  always  accojnpany  us  thy  unworthy  Ser- 
vants (in  as  furc,  though  not  In  the  fame  vifible  Manner} 
for  -without  it  we  can  do  nothing  / 

Friday,  Noifniber  1.  Roue  near  60  Miles  without  Fa- 
tj^'.!t\  ^n^n^ix.'i^i:'^  Philadelphiu  before  11  at  Night. — As 


ct  PHILADELPHIA.         27 

I  travelled,  I  obferved  the  Country  was  more  and  more 
open,  and  many  fruitful  Plantations  lay  on  each  Side  the 
Road ;  fo  that  I  frequently  thought  I  was,  as  it  were,  in" 
Englayid. — Going  abroad,  if  duly  improved,  cannot  but 
enlarge  our  Ideas,  and  give  us  exalted  Thoughts  of  the 
Greatnefs  and  Goodnefs  of  God.— ^ Lord,  enable  me  to 
learn  this,  a?id  every  other  gotid  Lejfon  for  thy  dear  Sons 
Sake. 

PHILADELPHIA. 

Saturday,  November  3.  Delivered  the  Letters  commit" 
ted  to  my  Charge.  Went  on  board  the  Elizabeth  to  fe^ 
my  Family,  who  arrived  lalt  Night. — Vifited  the  Propri- 
etor, Commiffary,  and  fome  others. — Was  received  verv 
civilly,  and  perceived  the  Town  was  in  great  Expedlation 
of  feeing  me. — Met  with  fome  gracious  Souls,  who  dif- 
courfed  with  me  fweetly  concerning  the  Things  which  be- 
long to  the  Kingdom  of  God.  Hired  a  Houfe  at  a  very 
cheap  Rate,  and  was  entirely  fettled  in  it  before  Night. — 
Methinks  going  thus  from  Place  to  Place  with  my  Friends, 
fomewhat  refembles  the  Patriarch  Abraham's  frequent  Re- 
moves, when  called  to  leave  his  Kindred  and  his  native 
Country.  Oh  that,  like  him,  we  may  ereH  an  Altar  for 
God  whitherfoever  we  go  !  BlefTed  be  his  Holy  Name,  he 
hath  fent  his  Angel  before  us  to  prepare  our  Way.  All 
Things  have  been  ordered  for  us  far  above  Expe6tation,  and 
every  Thing  is  fo  convenient,  that  I  fear  we  (hall  be  tempt-* 
ed  to  fay  'tis  good  for  us  to  be  here:  But  blefled  be  God, 
wc  muft  move  foon,  and  learn  to  endure  Hardnefs  like 
good  Soldiers  of  Jefus  Chrift.  Lord,  for  thy  iytfaite  Mer^ 
cics  fake  keep  usjiriving  till  we  die  ! 

Saturday,  November  4.  Read  Prayers  and  aflifted  at  the 
Communion  in  the  Morning.  Dined  with  one  of  the 
Church- Wardens,  and  preached  in  the  Afternoon  to  a 
large  Congregation.  Went  in  the  Evening  to  the  Qua- 
ker's Meeting,  and  felt  fomewhat  of  a  Sympathy  with  the 
Man  that  fpoke.  But  I  heartily  wifh  they  would  talk  of 
an  Outward  as  well  as  Inward  Chrift.  For  otherwife  we 
make  our  own  Holinefs,  and  not  the  Righteoufnefs  of  Je- 
D  2  fes 


28       Mr.  W  H 1  T  E  F I  E  L  d'5  Jotinial 

fus  Chrift  the  Caufe  of  our  being  accepted  by  God.    Front 
fuch  Dodlrinc  may  I  always  turn  away  ! 

Monday y  Novsmher  5.  Read  Prayers  and  preached  to  a 
large  Auditory.  Dined  with  the  other  Church- Warden, 
and  had  fome  clofe  and  edifying  Converfation  about  our 
Juftification  by  Faith  in  Christ,  .Was  vifited  in  the 
Afternoon  by  \h&  Presbyterian  Minifter.  Went  after- 
wards to  fee  the  Baptifl  Teacher,  who  feems  to  be  a  fpi- 
ritual  Man,  and  fpent  Part  of  the  Evening  moft  agreeably 
■with  two  loving  Qiiakers.  Had  remarkable  Inftances  of 
God's  anfwering  our  Prayers  which  we  put  up  on  board 
Ship,  and  that  in  the  minuted  Particulars.  O  that  I  may 
watch  G  OD's  particular  Providcj;ce  fnore  and  more  !  It 
comforts  and  builds  up  my  Soul.  How  unhappy  muft  they 
be  who  would  exclude  it  out  of  the  World  !  Surely  fuch 
muft  wander  about  in  worfe  than  Egyptian  Darknefs.  To 
live  without  a  Senfe  of  God's  particular  Providence,  is  in 
Kffet^l  to  live  witliout  God  in  the  World.  From  fuch  a 
State  good  Lord  deliver  me. 

Tuefday,  Novernher  6.  Read  Prayers  and  preached  in 
the  Morning,  having  the  \}\t  of  the  Pulpit  granted  me 
for  the  whole  Week.  Went  at  the  Invitation  of  its  Father, 
to  the  Funeral  of  a  Quakci's  Child,  and  thought  it  my 
Duty,  as  there  was  a  great  Concourfe  of  People  at  the 
Burving-Place,  and  no  one  of  the  Qiiakers  fpoke,  to  give 
a  Word  of  Exhortation.  I  hc^e  this  will  be  a  Means  of 
making  them  more  free  in  coming  to  hear  the  Word,  tho' 
preach'd  witiiin  a  Church  W^all,  Oh  that  Bigotry  and 
Prejudice  were  bamflied  out  of  the  Chrillian  World. 
Lordi  let  it  not  be  once  named  among  us^  as  hecometh  Saints j 
Amen,  Lord  Jefus,  Amen. 

Was  vifited  again  in  tiie  Evening  by  the  Presbyterian 
?.nd  Baptift  Preachers,  who  were  much  rejoiced  to  hear 
Jefus  Chnft  preached  in  the  Church.  Whilfl  I  was  con- 
verfing  v/ith  them,  fome  Women  came  defiring  they 
might  be  admitted  toPravers  with  my  Family.  Looking 
on  this  as  a  Hint  from  Providence,  I  called  them  up, 
and  felt  much  Enlargement  of  Heart  in  exhorting  them, 
and  pouring  out  my  Heart  before  God  in  their  Behalf. 
Many  came  up  afterwards,  whom  I  defired  to  take  the 

Libcrtv, 


at  PHILADELPHIA        29 

tiberty,  if  they  thought  proper,  to  come  again  every 
Night.  Who  knows  but  the  Lord  may  be  about  to  open 
a  yet  more  eflpedual  Door  ?  O  prepare  me  to  do  thy  IVill, 
O  God! 

TVednefday,  November  7.  Read  Prayers  and  preached  in 
the  Church.  Dined  with  Mr,  Penn  the  Proprietor,  and 
praved  with,  and  gave  a  Word  of  Exhortation  to  more 
than  a  Room  full  of  People  who  came,  as  laft  Night,  to 
hear  the  Gofpel  of  Chrift.  Blefled  be  God  I  found  much 
Liberty  of  Spirit,  but  having  taken  Cold  was  obliged  to 
leave  ofF  fooner  than  otherwife  I  fhould  have  done.  How- 
ever, in  the  midft  of  the  Weaknefs  and  Diforder  of  my 
Body,  the  feeing  People  come  fo  gladly  to  heard  the  Word 
refrefhed  and  comforted  my  Soul. — Lord^  make  it  ?«y  only 
Joy  to  fee  thy  Kingdom  advanced  and  carried  on.  Amen 
and  Amen. 

Thurfday,  November  8.  Read  Prayers  and  preached  to 
a  more  numerous  Congregation  than  I  have  feen  yet.  Dined 
with  an  honeft,  open-hearted,  true  Ifraelitijh  Quaker.  Had 
a  fweet  Opportunity  with  him  and  his  Family  of  talking 
about  Jefus  Chrift  and  him  crucified,  and  preached  at  Six 
in  the  Evening  from  the  Court-houfe  Stairs  to  about  6000 
People.  Blefled  be  God,  I  fiiid  the  Number  that  came  on 
Tuejday  to  my  Houfe  greatly  increafed  and  multiplied.  The 
Inhabitants  were  very  follicitous  for  my  preaching  in  ano- 
ther Place  befides  the  Church.  For  it  is  quite  contrary 
here  to  what  it  is  in  England.  There  the  generality  of 
People  think  a  Sermon  cannot  be  preached  well  without; 
here  they  do  not  like  it  fo  well  if  delivered  within  the 
Church  Walls.  Lord,  grant  I  Ttiay  become  all  Things  to  all 
Men,  that  I  may  gain  fame,  and  preach  the  Gofpel  in  every 
Place  and  in  every  Manner,  as  well  as  to  every  Creature! 

Friday,  November  9.  Read  Prayers  and  preached  as  u- 
fual  in  the  Morning,  and  perceived  the  Congregation  ftill 
encreafed.  Vifited  a  fickPerfon,  to  whom  I  was  fent  for, 
and  perceived  the  Power  of  the  Lord  was  prefent,  both 
with  him  and  thofe  that  attended  him  :  Moft  wept  forely 
at  the  Preaching  of  Faith.  Was  vifited  in  a  kind  manner 
by  the  Minifler  of  the  Parifh,  and  preached  again  at  fix  in 

the 


30        Mr,  W H I T  E  F I E  L  dV  Journal 

the  Evening  from  the  Court-Houfe  Steps.  I  believe  there 
were  near  2000  more  prefent  to-night  than  lart  Night. 
Even  in  London  I  never  obferved  fo  profound  a  Silence. — 
Before  I  came  all  was  hufh'd  and  exceeding  quiet.  The 
Night  was  clear,  but  not  cold.  Lights  were  in  moft  of  the 
Windows  all  around  us  for  a  confiderable  Diftance.  The 
People  did  not  feem  weary  of  ftanding,  nor  was  I  weary  of 
ipeaking.  The  Lord  endued  me  with  Power  from  on 
high.  My  Heart  was  enlarged  and  warm'd  with  divine 
Love.  My  Soul  was  carried  out  in  Prayer,  that  I  thought 
I  could  have  continued  my  Difcourfe  all  Night.  After  I 
came  home,  fome  defired  to  join  in  Family  Prayer,  and 
in  that  Excercife  the  Divine  Prefence  was  manifeft  amongft 
us.  Surely  God  has  a  Favour  unto  this  People.  At  pre- 
fent they  feem  moft  gladly  to  receive  and  fweetly  to  mek 
tinder  the  Word.  Lord^  I  befeech  thee^  Jhew  forth  thy 
Glory  more  and  more^  and  graJit  that  much  People  in  this 
Place  may  be  enabled  to  believe  on  thee^  even  Jo  Lordjefus  ! 

Saturday^  November  10.  Before  it  was  Light,  came  a 
young  Perfon  whom  I  obferved  to  be  much  affected  laft 
Night,  defiring  to  join  in  Prayer;  and  after  our  Devotions 
Vfexe  ended,  flie  put  into  ray  Hands  the  following  Letter. 

«  Oh  what  fliall  I  fay  to  exprefs  my  Thanks  I  owe  to 

*  my  good  God,  in  and  from  you  tlirough  Jefus  Chriji, 

*  which  you  have  been  the  happy  Inftrument  of  begin- 

*  ning  in  my  Soul ;  and  if  you  have  any  Regard  to  a  poor, 
«  miferable,    blind  and  naked  Wretch,    that's  not  only 

*  Duft,  but  Sin,  as  I  am  confident  you  have,  you  will  in 

*  nowife  re'iedl  my  humble  Requeft,  which  is  that  I,  even 

*  I,  may  lay  hold  of  this  blefled  Opportunity  of  forfaking 

*  all,  in  order  to  perfevere  in  a  virtuous  Gourfc  of  Life. 

*  Defpife  not  thou  thine  Hand- maiden  :  But  oh  let  mc 
«   fay,  as  Ruth  the  Moahitejs  faid  to  her  Mother-in-law,  In- 

*  treat  me  not  to  leave  thee,  or  to  return  from  following  af- 

*  ter  thee,  for  whither    thou  gorjl  I  will  go,    and  when 

*  thou  art,  there  will  i  be  afo^  thy  People  Jliall  be  my  People  y 

*  and  thy  God  my  God.— Thus  am  I  fully  determined. 

*  I  pray  and  beg  that  you  would  not  defpife  thy  poor  for- 

*  lorn  and  deftitute  T  ellow-creature,  and  the  Lord  recom- 

*  pence  thy  Work,  and  a  full  Reward  be  given  unto  thee 

'  of 


'        at  PHILADELPHIA.       31 

*  of  the  Lord  Jefus  Chrift,   under  whofe  Wings  I  an\ 

*  come  to  truft.' 

Soon  after  came  a  little  Maid  about  feven  Years  of  Age, 
telling  me  Ihe  heard  I  took  little  Children  to  Georgia^  and 
defired  me  to  take  her.  In  the  remaining  Part  of  the 
Morning  feveral  gracious  Souls  of  different  Communions 
paid  me  a  moft  loving  Vifit,  and  my  Heart  was  much  re- 
freflied  with  their  pious  Converfation.  About  1 1  I  read 
Prayers,  and  preached  in  the  Church  to  a  larger  Audience 
than  before.  Dined  with  the  Minifter  of  the  Parifh,  and 
at  my  Return  home  was  much  comforted  by  the  coming 
of  one  Mr.  Tennent  an  old  grey-headed  Difciple  and  Sol- 
dier of  Jefus  Chrift.  He  keeps  an  Academy  about  20 
Miles  off  Philadelphia,  has  been  blefled  with  four  gra- 
cious Sons,  three  of  which  have  been  and  ftill  continue  to 
be  eminently  ufeful  in  the  Church  of  Chrift.  He  brought 
three  pious  Souls  along  with  him,  and  rejoiced  me  by 
letting  me  know  how  they  had  been  evil  fpoken  of  for  their 
Mafter's  Sake.  He  is  a  great  Friend  to  Mr.  Erskine  of 
Scotland,  and,  as  far  as  I  can  find,  both  he  and  his  Sons  are 
fecretly  defpifedby  the  generality  of  the  Synod,  as  Mr.  Ers- 
kine and  his  Brethren  are  hated  by  the  Judicatories  of  E- 
dinburgh,  and  as  the  Methodiji  Preachers  are  by  their  Bre- 
thren in  England.  Though  we  are  but  few,  and  ftand  as* 
it  were  alone  like  Elijah,  and  though  they,  like  the  Priefts 
of  Baal,  are  many  in  Number,  yet  I  doubt  not  but  the 
Lord  will  appear  for  us,  as  he  did  for  that  Prophet,  and 
make  us  more  than  Conquerors. 

About  three  went  to  the  Prifon,  and  preached  on  the 
trembling  Jailor.  The  Place  was  crowded,  and  many 
wept.  Returned  home  with  the  Swedijh  Minifter  and 
old  Mr.  Tennent.  Converfed  of  the  Things  of  God  for 
a  confiderable  Time,  then  preached  in  the  Evening  to  as 
large  a  Congregation  as  there  was  laft  Night  from  the 
Court-houfe  Stairs.  Satan  endeavoured  to  interrupt  us  a- 
bout  the  middle  of  the  Difcourfe,  for  the  People  were 
frightened  with  they  knew  not  what,  but  they  were  foon 
at  Peace  again.  I  preached  above  an  Hour,  and  when  I 
had  finiftied,  the  People  feemed  unwilling  to  go  away,  io 
I  began  to  pray  afrefti,  and  I  hope  the  Lord  fent  them 
home  with  his  Blefling.      Many,    to  my  Knowledge, 

have 


3  2       Mr,  W  H I T  E  F I E  L  r>  V  Jourjid. 

iiave  been  already  quickened  and  awakened  to  fee  that  Re>^ 
ligion  does  not  confifl  in  outward  Things,  but  in  Rigiite- 
oufncfs.  Peace,  and  Joy  in  the  Holy  Ghoft.  Oh  that 
they  may  not  only  recei-oe  the  Word  with  Joy  for  a  Seaforiy 
hut  bring  forth  Fruit  unto  Perfe£tion  ! 

After  Preaching,  my  Houfe  was  filled  with  People  who 
came  in  to  join  in  Pfalms  and  Family  Prayer.  My  Body 
was  fomewhat  weak,  but  the  Lord  ftrengthened  and  en- 
larged my  Heart.  Many  wept  moll  bitterly  whillt  I  was 
praying.  Their  Hearts,  I  believe,  were  loaded  with  a 
Senfe  of  Sin,  the  only  Preparative  for  the  Soul-refrcihing 
Vifitations  of  Jefus  Chrilh  Blelled  be  the  Lord  for  fend- 
ing me  hither.  This  has  been  a  Day  of  fat  Things. 
Lord^  give  me  Humility  and  make  me  truly  thankful.  A- 
men.  Lord  Jefus. 

Sunday^  November  ii.  Read  Prayers  in  the  Morning. 
Dined  with  the  Colledtor,  Preached  in  the  Afternoon  to 
a  very  thronged  Congregation.  Viflted  one  fick  Perfon, 
and  adminiftred  the  Holy  Sacrament  to  another,  who  has 
received  no  fuch  inward  Peace  and  Comfort  for  thefe 
twelve  Years,  as  God  was  pleafed  to  communicate  to  her 
Soul  at  this  Time.  Not  unto  me^  O  Lord,  not  unto  7ne^ 
but  unto  thy  Name  be  all  the  Glory.  For  ever  adored  be 
the  Divine  Goodnefs,  the  Gofpcl  has  taken  Root  in  ?nany 
Hearts.  Aflbon  as  I  come  home,  my  Houfe  is  generally 
filled  with  People  defirous  to  join  in  Pfalms  and  Prayers. 
They  are  fo  eager  after  the  Bread  of  Life,  that  they  fcarce 
can  give  mc  time  to  take  bodily  Rcfrcfhment  and  proper 
Retirement  in  my  Clofet.  God,  I  am  perfuaded,  has  a 
Favour  unto  them.  My  Power  and  Freedom  of  Speech 
mcreafes  daily,  and  thij?  Afternoon  I  was  carried  out  much 
in  bearing  my  Teltimony  againfl:  the  unchriftian  Prin- 
ciples and  Practices  of  the  generality  of  our  Clergy. 
Three  of  my  Reverend  Brethren  were  prefent,  I  know 
not  whether  they  were  ofi:ended.  I  endeavoured  to  fpeak 
with  Mecknefs  as  well  as  Zeal ;  and  I  find  the  Neceility 
more  and  more  of  difcovcring  thofe  that  are  only  Wolves 
m  Sheep's  Cloathing.  Was  I  to  convert  Papifls,  my  Bu- 
finefs  would  be  to  fhew  they  were  mifguided  by  their 
Priefts ;  and  if  I  want  to  convince  Church  oi  E "gland 
Proteftants,    I    mult  prove  that  the  generality   of  their 

Teachers 


at^PENSlLVANIA.  33 

't'eachers  do  not  preach  or  live  up  to  the  Truth  as  it  is  in 
Jefus.  For  in  vain  do  we  hope  to  fet  People  right  till  we 
demonftrate  that  the  Way  which  they  have  been  taught  is 
wrong.  Perhaps  this  may  coft  me  my  Life :  But  what 
have  I  to  do  with  that  ? 

My  L'lfe^  my  Bloody  I  here  prefent^ 
If  for  thy  Canfe  they  ?nay  be  fpent. 
Fulfil  thy  Sovereign  Ccunfel^  Lord^ 
Thy  Will  be  done,  thy  Name  ador''d  ! 
Give  me  thy  Strength,   O  God  ofPo-afr  % 
Then  let  IVinds  blow,  or  Thunders  roar^ 
Thy  faithful  IVitnefs  will  I  be  ; 
"Tis  fix'd :  I  can  do  all  for  Thee  ! 

Philadelphia^    Burlington,    and  l^rent  To".vn  ill  1 
the  Jerjeys. 

Monday,  November  12.  Left  a  large  Packet  of  Letters, 
and  fome  Things  for  the  Prefs,  to  be  fent  by  the  Conflan- 
tine.  Captain  IVright,  to  London.  A  Man  came  to  me 
this  Morning,  telling  me  what  God  had  done  for  his  Soul 
by  my  preaching  of  Faith.  Pie  feem'd  deeply  convinced 
of  Sin,  and  faid  he  was  drawn  out  by  God's  Spirit  to  pray 
laft  Night,  fo  that  he  lifted  up  his  Voice  like  a  Trumpet, 
for  which  he  was  immediately  looked  upon  by  his  Mafter 
^nd  the  Family  as  a  Madman.  I  never  yet  knew  one 
truly  awakened  who  did  not  commence  a  Fool  for  Chrift's 
Sake.  Was  pleafed  to  fee  feveral  tender  Souls  come  to 
Family  Prayer.  Indeed  I  have  great  Reafon  to  believe  a 
^ood  Work  is  begun  in  many  Hearts.  Lord,  carry  it  m 
for  thy  dear  Son's  Sake  I  At  my  firft  Arrival  at  Phila- 
delphia, I  received  a  Letter  which  had  been  left  for  me 
three  Months,  and  in  which  there  was  a  prefTing  Invita- 
tion fent  me  by  one  Mr.  Noble,  (a  Spiritual  Man)  in  the 
Behalf  of  many  others,  to  come  to  Nevj  York.  On  Fri- 
day I  received  another  from  the  fame  Perfon  ;  which 
looking  like  the  Call  given  St.  Paul,  when  the  Man  ap- 
peared to  him,  faying,  Co?nc  oyer  to  Macedonia,  and  help 
Us,  I  this  Morning,  in  the  Name  and  Strength  of  God,  fet 
c<us  for  that  Place,  Four  choice  Hoxfes  were  lent  to  me 
%  and 


34      ^f'  W  H I  T  E  F  I  E  L  D'i  '^oumdl 

and  my  Friends,  and  more  we  m/ght  I%^ve  had,  had  there 
been  Occafion.  About  One  we  got  fafe  to  Burlingtoyi  in 
the  Jcrfcys,  (20  Miles  from  Philadelphia)  where  I  was 
importuned  to  preach  as  I  went  along. — The  Gentle- 
jhan  who  gave  me  the  Invitation,  received  me  and  my 
Friends  in  as  fvveet  a  Manner  as  can  well  be  imagined. 
Immediately  after  Dinner  I  read  Prayers  and  preached  in 
the  Church,  to  a  mixed  but  thronged  and  attentive  Con- 
gregation. I  fcarce  know  the  Time  when  I  have  fpoken 
wirh  greater  Simplicity  and  Freedom.  The  Holy  Spirit 
fweetly  gave  me  Utterance,  and  I  perceived  feveral  much 
afFccled. — The  poor  People  were  very  importunate  for 
my  flaying  with  them  all  Night,  and  giving  them  ano- 
ther Difcourfe  ;  but  it  being  inconfiftent  with  my  Bufinefs, 
(with  great  Regret)  about  Five  in  the  Evening  we  took  our 
Leaves,  and  by  Eight  o'  Clock  reached  Ti'cnt,  another 
Town  in  the  Jerfeys.  It  being  dark^  ws  went  out  of 
our  Way  a  little  in  the  Woods.  But  God  fent  a  Guide 
to  direct  u§  aright.  Whilft  I  was  riding,  I  felt  the  Spirit 
of  God  infufnig  frefli  Supplies  of  Grace  into  my  Heart. 
\Ve  had  a  comfortable  Refrefhment  when  we  reached  our 
Inn,  and  went  to  Reft  in  Peace  and  joy.  Lord^  teach  me 
to  be  thankful.     Amen  and  Amen. 

Tuefday,  November  13.  Left  T?v«if  Town  about  Six  in 
the  Morning.  Had  a  Iweet  and  pleafant  Journey,  and 
reached  Bmnfwick,  30  Miles  dillant,  about  One.  Here  wc 
•were  much  refrefhed  with  the  Company  of  Mr.  Gilbert 
Temient,  an  eminent  DilTenting  Minifter  about  40  Years 
of  Age,  Son  to  that  good  old  Alan  who  came  to  fee  me  on 
Saturday  at  Philadelphia.  GoD  I  find  has  been  pleafed 
greatly  to  own  his  Labours.  He  and  his  Aflbciates  arc 
now  the  burning  and  fliining  Ligiits  of  this  Part  of  Jme- 
rica.  He  recounted  to  me  many  remarkable  Effufions  of 
the  Blefled  Spirit  which  have  been  fent  down  amongll 
them  ;  and  one  may  judge  of  their  being  true,  faithful 
Soldiers  of  Jefus  Chrifl,  hecaufe  they  are  every  where 
fpoken  evil  of  by  natural  Men.  The  Devil,  and  carnal 
recure  Minifters  rage  horribly  againft  them.  Several  pi- 
ous  Souls  came  to  fee  me  at  his  Houfc,  with  whom  I  took 
fweet  Counfel.  At  their  Requefl:,  and  finding  there  was  a 
general  Expedation  of  hearing  me,  /  read  the  Church  Li- 


at  NEW-YORK.  35 

turgy^  and  preached  in  the  Evening  at  Mr,  TVww^w/'jJ'/tv?- 
ing-Hotife. — For  there  is  no  Place  fet  apart  for  the  Wor- 
ihip  of  the  Church  of  £«^/^tt6^ ;  and  it  is  common,  as  I 
was  told,  in  America^  for  the  DifTenters  and  Conformifts 
to  worfhip  at  different  Times  in  the  fame  Phice.  Oh 
that  the  Partition  Wall  was  broken  down,  and  ive  all  with 
one  Heart  and  one  Mind  could  glorify  our  cotnmon  Lord  and 
Saviour  Jefus  Chriji  ! 

At  my  firft  getting  up  I  was  fomewhat  weak  and  dry, 
but  God  renewed  my  Strength,  and  enabled  me  to  fpeak 
with  Freedom  and  Power.  I  was  above  an  Hour  in  my 
Sermon,  and  I  truft  I  fhall  hear  it  was  not  preached  in 
vain.  Paul  may  plant  J  Jpollosiuater;  thoUjLordy  only  canj} 
give  the  Increafc  ! 

Wednefday,  November  14.  Set  out  from  Brunfwicky  in 
Company  vi^ith  my  dear  Fellow-Travellers,  and  my  wor- 
thy Brother  and  Fellow-Labourer  A-lr.  Tennent.  As  we 
palled  alorig  we  fpent  our  Time  moil  agreeably  in  telling 
one  another  what  God  had  done  for  our  Souls.  He  re- 
counted to  me  many  fweet  rnftances  of  God's  ikiving 
with  his  Heart,  and  how  Grace,  at  lail,  overcame  all 
his  Fightings  againft  God,  About  Noon  we  got  to  Eli- 
zabeth Town,  22  Miles  from  Brunfwick.  Here  we  took 
Boat,  and  about  Four  reached  N'eiu-Tork,  where  we  were 
fnoft  affedlionately  received  by  the  Family  of  Mr.  Noble. 
As  foon  as  we  had  refreflied  our  Bodies  by  eating  a  little 
Food,  and  our  Souls  by  giving  of  Thanks,  I  waited  upon 
Mr.  Fejpy  the  Commillary,  but  he  was  not  at  Home: 
Then  1  went  to  the  Meeting  Houfe  to  hear  Mr,  Gilbert 
Tennent  preach,  and  never  before  lieard  fuch  a  fearching 
Sermon.  '  He  went  to  the  Bottom  indeed,  and  did  not 
daub  with  untemperecj  Mortar.  He  convinced  me  more 
and  more  that  we  can  preach  the  Gofpel  of  Chriil  no  fur- 
ther than  we  have  experienced  the  Power  of  it  in  our  own 
Heart;  Being  deeply  convi6led  of  Sin,  and  driven  from 
Time  to  Time  off  his  falfe  Bottom  and  Dependencies., 
by  God's  Holy  Spirit  at  his  firft  Converiion,  he  has 
learned  experimentally  to  diiVedl  the  Heart  of  a  natural 
Man.  Hypocrites  mull  either  foon  be  converted,  er  en- 
raged at  his  Preaching.  He  is  a  Son  of  Thunder,  and 
dues  not  fear  the  Faces  of  Men.  He  is  deeply  fenUble  of 
E  2  the 


3  6       Mr.  W  H I T  E  F I E  L  d' J  Journal 

the  Deadnefs  and  Formality  of  the  Chriftian  Church  i^ 
thefe  Parts,  and  has  given  noble  Teftimonies  againft  it. 
After  Sermon  we  fpent  the  Evening  together  at  Mr. 
Noble's  Houfe.  At  their  Requeft  I  expounded  and  prayed, 
and  after  we  had  fung  a  Pfalm,  we  took  our  Leaves  of 
each  other,  and  went  to  Refl:.  My  Soul  was  humbled 
and  melted  down  with  a  Senfe  of  God's  Mercies,  and  I 
found  more  and  more  what  a  Babe  and  Novice  I  was  in 
the  Things  of  Go-D.—Blejfed  J  ESUS,  grant  I  may 
make  continual  Advances  "'till  I  come  to  a  p;rfe£i  Man  in 
ifhce  I 

Thur/dayt  November  15.  Had  feveral  come  to  fee  me 
at  my  Lodgings,  who  alfo  gave  me  kind  Invitations  to 
their  Houfes. — Waited  upon  Mr.  FeJ/ey^  ^^^  could  wifh, 
for  his  own  Sake,  he  had  behaved  in  a  more  Chriftian 
Manner. —He  fcem'd  to  be  full  of  Anger  and  Refentment, 
and  before  I  asked  him  for  the  Ufe  of  his  Pulpit,  denied 
it. — He  defired  to  fee  my  Letters  of  Orders,  I  told  him 
they  were  left  at  Philadelphia. — He  asked  me  for  a  Li- 
cenfe. — I  anfwered,  I  never  heard  that  the  Biihop  of  Lo7i- 
don  gave  any  Licenfe  to  any  one  that  went  to  preach  the 
Gofpel  in  Georgia,  hut  that  I  was  prefented  to  the  Living 
oi  Savannah  by  the  Truftees,  and  upon  that  Prefcntation 
had  Letters  Dimifibry  from  my  Lord  of  London,  which 
I  thought  was  Authority  fufficient. — But  this  was  by  no 
Means  fatisfa^lory. — He  charged  me  with  breaking  my 
Oath,  for  breaking  the  Canon,  which  enjoir.s  Minillcrs 
and  Church- Wardens  not  to  admit  Pcnons  into  their  Pul- 
pit without  a  Licenfe.  Alas !  How  can  I  break  that, 
when  I  am  neither  a  Church- Warden,  nor  have  any 
Church  hereabouts  to  admit  any  one  into?  Upon  this, 
hearing  he  was  a  Frequenter  of  Publick  Houfes,  I  re- 
minded him  of  that  Cano/i  which  forbids  the  Clergy  to 
go  to  any  fuch  Places. — This,  tho'  fpoke  in  the  Spirit  of 
Meekneis,  ftirr'd  up  his  Corruptions  more  and  more. — 
He  charged  me  with  making  a  Difturbance  in  Philadel- 
fhia,  and  fowing  and  caufmg  Divifions  in  other  Places. — 
But  you,  fays  he,  have  a  NecefTity  laid  upon  you  to 
preach  5  I  told  him  I  had. — For  the  Clergy  and  Laity  Ov 
our  Church  feem'd  to  be  Settled  on  their  Lees,  but  my 
End  in  Preaching  was  nut  to  fow  Divifions,    but  to  pro- 


ai  NEW-rORK,  3^ 

pagate  the  pure  Gofpel  of  Jesus  Chris t. — He  faid 
they  did  not  want  my  Affiftance  ;  I  repHed,  if  they  did 
preach  the  Gofpel,  I  wifhed  them  good  Luck  in  the  Name 
of  the  Lord. — But  as  he  had  denied  me  the  Church  with- 
out my  asking  for  the  Ufe  of  it,  I  would  preach  in  the 
Fields,  for  all  Places  were  alike  to  me. — Yes,  fays  he,  I 
find  you  have  been  ufed  to  that.  After  this,  he  taxed 
me  with  cenfuring  my  Superiors.  I  told  hirn  I  was  nd 
Refpeder  of  Perfons  ;  if  a  Biftiop  committed  a  Fault,  I 
would  tell  him  of  it ;  if  a  common  Clergyman  did  not 
ad  aright,  I  would  be  free  with  him  alfo,  as  well  as  with 
a  Layman. — Whilft  we  were  talking,  he  called  for  fome 
Wine,  and  I  drank  his  Health ;  foon  after,  he  rofe  up, 
faid  he  had  Bufmefs  to  do ;  and  (as  we  were  going  out) 
full  of  Refentment,  faid  to  Mr.  Noble,  who  accompanied 
me,  with  Brother  Seivard^ —  Mr.  Noble^  as  you  fent  for 
this  Gentleman,  fo  I  defire  you  will  find  him  a  Pulpit. — 
Alas !  alas!  what  manner  of  Spirit  are  the  Generality  of 
the  Clergy  pq/fejfed  with  ?  Is  this  the  Spirit  of  the  meek 
Lamb  of  God  ?  Are  thefe  the  Fruits  of  the  Holy  Gh  ost, 
which  they  pretend  to  be  moved  with  when  they  take 
Holy  Orders?  —  It  cannot  be. — Surely  the  Kingdom  of 
God  will  be  taken  from  them.  The  Curfe  that  fell  oji 
ElPs  Sons,  I  fear,  will  light  on  them.  They  caufe  the 
Sacrifices  of  God  to  be  abhorr'd.  Their  Bigotry,  if  it 
was  nothing  elfe,  in  Time  would  deftroy  them.  Lord, 
for  thy  Mercfs  Sake,  lighten  their  Darkyicfs,  and  grmii 
that  7nar^y  of  the  Priejfs  alfo  may  be  obedient  to  the  Faith  ! 

Dined  with  Mr.  Pemberton,  the  Presbyterian  Mini- 
fter. — Preached  in  the  Fields  to  upwards  of  Two  Thou- 
fand  about  Three  in  the  i^fternoon,  and  expounded  at 
Six  in  the  Evening  to  a  very  thronged  and  attentive  Au- 
dience in  Mr.  Pemberton's  Meeting- Houfe. — At  Hrft,  for 
the  Sake  of  my  weak  Brethren,  I  was  unwilling  to  preach 
there,  but  hearing  that  Mr.  VeJJey  the  Commiflary  himfeUt 
had  prpachpd  in  the  Dutch  Calviniftical  Meeting-Houfe, 
when  there  was  no  Place  of  Worfhip  for  the  People  of  our 
own  Communion,  and  the  Dutch  Meeting-Houic  Hemg 
denied  me,  as'  well  as  the  Church,  I  thought  it  my  L'-ity 
to  accept  of  the  kind  Offer  made  me  by  Mr.  Petnhen^  ■ 
jind  his  Friends. — In  the  Field  fome  few  mock-ed,  bitt 
God  gave  me  Power  to  fpeak  to  them,    and  they  grevy 


3 8       Mr.  Whitefield'^  Journal 

more  ferious.  At  Night  the  People  feem'd  exceedingly- 
attentive,  and  I  have  not  felt  greater  Freedom  in  Preach- 
ing, and  more  Power  in  Prayer,  and  a  flronger  Witnefs 
of  the  Spirit,  fince  I  came  into  America,  than  I  have  had 
here  at  New  York. — I  find  it  has  been  a  fecure  Place,  and 
but  Httle  of  the  Work  of  God  feen  in  it  for  many  Years. 
Oh  that  this  may  he  the  accepted  T'vne  !  Oh  that  this  may 
be  the  Day  of  their  Salvation  ! 

Friday^  November  1 6.  Preached  at  Three  in  the  Af- 
ternoon to  a  lovely  Congregation  in  the  Meeting-Houfe, 
jt  being  too.  cold  to  go  out  into  the  Fields.  Expounded 
again  in  the  Evening,  at  the  fame  Place,  to  a  far  greater 
Congregation  than  I  have  feen  here  yet. — Great  Multitudes 
returned  Home  for  w^ant  of  Room. — God  enabled  me  to 
preach  with  Power,  and  I  hope  fome  Good  will  be  done, 
becaufe  Satan  is  difturb'd. — After  Evening  Service,  I  was 
told  by  feveral  Perfons,  that  the  Conftables  of  the  Town 
had  been  placed  at  the  Door  of  the  Englijh  Church,  left 
jny  Adherents,  encouraged  by  me,  fhould  break  it  open, 
and  take  it  by  Force. — Well  may  the  Heads  of  our  Church 
People  be  faid  to  reje6l  the  Kingdom  of  God  againft 
themfelves.  I  fear  God  will  fhortly  \2.\.q.  it  from  them. 
They  fo  imitate  the  Scribes  and  Pharifees  in  their  Crimes, 
I  fear  they  will  be  made  Partakers  of  tiicir  i\ini{liment ! 
Oh  that  they  would  jee  in  this  their  Day.,  the  Things  ivhicb 
belong  to  their  Peace,  before  they  are  hid  from  their  Eyes  I 

Saturday,  Ncvejnher  i-j.  Preached  as  ufual  in  the  Af- 
ternoon, at  the  Meeting-Houfe,  to  a  full  Congregation  ; 
and  again  at  Night  to  a  great  Multitude  ftanding  round 
the  Doors,  befides  thofe  that  were  within.  Woe  be  unto 
thofe  who  by  their  Bigotry,  Prcjudfce,  and  Party  Zeaj, 
oblige  us  to  preach  the  Gofpel  in  fo  confined  a  Place  !  But 
no  Matter,  this,  as  well  as  every  Thing  elfe,  flaall  he 
over  ruled  for  the  Good  of  Christ's  Church. — Had  the 
Pleafure  of  hearing  tl^at  fome  blefled  Effli^ts  had  been  pro- 
duced by  the  Preaching  of  the  Word,  and  feveral  expiel's'd 
a  ftrong  Jnclinatipn  to  go  with  me. — When  God  will 
work,  who  can  hinder  .?  '  Prqifed  be  the  Lord,  xvho  daily 
JIjcWs  me  this  is  the  Way  wherein  I J})ould  go  :  Lordy  make 
me  ever  humble  and  thankful ! 

Sunday^ 


-fit  NEW^TORK.  3§ 

Sunday,  November  1 8.  Preached  this  Morning  by 
tight  o'  Clock,  unto  a  very  attentive  Auditory  ;  vi^ent  to 
the  Englif}}  Church,  both  Morning  and  Evening,  and 
felt  my  Heart  almoft  bled  vv^ithin  me,  to  confider  v^^hatv 
blind  Guides  were  fent  forth  into  her. — If  I  have  any 
Regard  for  the  Honour  of  Christ,  and  Good  of  Souls, 
I  muft  lift  up  my  Voice  like  a  Trumpet,  and  (hew  how 
fadly  our  Church  Minifters  are  fallen  from  the  Dodlrines 
of  the  Reformation. — Her  Prophets  prophefy  Lies,  and  I 
fear  many  of  the  People  love  to  have  it  /*. — It  Is  high 
Time,  O  Lord,  that  thou  have  Mercy  upon  Sion.  Oh  let 
that  Time  JJjortly  come  ! 

In  the  Second  Leflbn  in  the  Morning  were  thefe  Verfcs, 
and  feme  I  found  made  an  immediate  Application  of 
them,  by  looking  on  mej  John,  Chap.  x.  Ver.  19^ 
There  was  a  Divifion  therefor^  again  among  the  Jezus  for 
thefe  Sayings,  Verfe  20.  And  many  of  theyn  faid,  he  hath 
a  Devil,  and  is  mad,  why  hear  ye  him  ?  Others  faidy 
Thefe  are  not  the  Words  of  him  that  hath  a  Devil. — In 
the  Evening,  a  vaft  Multitude  flock'd  to  hear  the  Word  ; 
Ibme  petition'd  the  Mayor  to  have  the  Ufe  of  the  Town- 
Hall,  but  it  was  denied  :  Then  we  thought  of  expound- 
ing out  of  a  Window,  and  to  let  the  People  ftand  in  the 
Street:  But  at  laft,  with  much  Difficulty,  I  got  into  the 
Meeting- Houfe,  and  the  People  being  prevail'd  on  to 
open  the  Windows,  Numbers  could  hear  that  flood  on 
the  Outfide.  God.  was  pleafed  to  enlarge  my  Heart,  and. 
I  was  prefied  in  Spirit  to  bear  my  Teftimony  againffc  the 
Doflrine  delivered  in  the  EngliJ})  Church,  both  Morning 
and  Evening.  Tho'  it  may  feem  a  hard  Saying  to  many, 
yet  our  People  need  be  caution'd  againft  the  Generality  of 
the  Scribes  and  Pharifees  of  our  Communion,  as  much  as 
the   "Jews  were  caution'd  to  beware  of  the  Scribes  and 

Pharifees   by  our   dear   Lord   Jesus. After  Sermon, 

many  Perfons  came  to  pray  with  me,  and  take  their  laft 
Farewel.  —They  alfo  gave  me  Tokens  of  their  Love,  and 
I  had  great  Reafon  to  believe  God  has  begun  a  good 
Work  in  New-Tork. — I  have  not  felt  fuch  Freedom  and 
Sweetnefs  of  Soul  fmce  I  have  been  in  America  :  One 
Reafon  I  believe  is,  becaufe  I  have  been  fomewhat  un- 
commonly oppofed. — Saw   my  Sermon  on  Regeneration 

Advertifcd 


40        Mr,  W  H  I  T  E  1^  I E  L  d'^  Journal 

Advertifed  in  the  Neiv  England  Paper,  and  gave  Leave 
for  my  Anfwer  to  my  Lord  of  London  to  be  printed  at 
IJeiv-York. 

About  Ten  at  Night,  havfng  fpent  fome  Time  in 
Prayer,  I  took  Boat  with  my  Friends,  and  had  a  pleafant 
Paflage  to  .a  Place  about  half  Way  to  Elizabeth  Town:^ 
where  we  lay  down  with  Joy  and  Thankfulnefs  for  the 
great  Things  the  Lord  had  fhewn  us. — Oh  that  I  was  duly 
fenjible  of  bis  dijliyiguljhing  Mercies  ! 

Monday^  November  ic).  Took  Boat  about  Five  in  thei 
Morning,  and  reached  Elizabntb  Tozvn  Point  at  Seven. — 
Spent  the  Morning  in  writing  Letters  and  my  Journal, 
and  in  Religious  Converfation  with  dear  Mr.  Tcnneyit^ 
Mr.  Noble:,  and  other  Friends  who  accompanied  me. — 
Paid  a  Vifit  to  Mr.  Vanghan^  the  Minifter  of  the  Church 
of  England  in  Elizabeth  Tcwn^  who,  as  I  heard  after- 
wards, had  preached  againfl  me,  and  faid  I  fhould  not 
have  theUfeof  his  Pulpit. — Dined  with  Mr  Dickerfon; 
the  Difienting  Miniller,  who  had  fent  a  Letter  of  Invi- 
tation to  Ncvj-Tork^  and  ofFer'd  me  the  Ufe  of  his  Meet- 
mg-Houfe. — About  Twelve  I  preach'd  in  it,  according 
to  Appointment,  to  upwards  of  yco  People,  many  of 
whom  feemed  much  afFe-fted,  and  God  was  pleafed  to' 
open  my  Mouth  agaitift  both  Minifters  and  People  among 
the  Dillenters,  who  hold  the  Truth  in  Unrighteoufnefs, 
contenting  themfelves  with  a  bare  fpeculative  Knowledge 
of  the  Dodtrines  of  Grace,  but  never  experiencing  the 
Power  of  them  in  their  Hearts. — Thefe  jhall  receive  thi 
greater  Condemnation  I 

NEW    BRVN SWICK. 

Tttefday^  November  20.  Reached  hither  about  Six  lafS 
Night,  and  preached  about  Noon,  for  near  Two  Hours,' 
in  worthy  Mr.  T'ennenf's,  Meeting- Houfe,  to  a  large  Af- 
fembly  gather'd  together  from  all  Parts;  and  amongft 
them,  as  Mr.  Tennent  told  me,  there  was  a  great  Body 
of  fulid  Chriftians.  About  Three  in  the  Afternoon,  I 
preacii'd  again,  and  at  Seven  1  baptized  two  Children, 
and  preached  a  third  Time  with  greater  Freedom  than  at 
Kit  her  of  the  former  Opportunities,— It  is  impoffible  to  tell 

with 


at  NEW-YORK,  41 

with  what  Pleafure  the  Children  of  God  heard  thofe 
Truths  confirm'd  by  a  Minifter  of  the  Church  of  England'-) 
which  for  many  Years  have  been  preached  to  them  by 
their  own  Paftor. —  Mr.  Tennenfs  Oppofers  Mouths  were 
ftopt,  feveral  were  brought  under  ftrong  Convictions,  and 
our  Lord's  dear  Difciples  were  ready  to  leap  for  Joy.  T(5 
me  the  Meeting  feemed  to  be  hke  the  Meeting  of  the 
Twelve  Tribes,  when  they  came  from  difFerent  Parts  to 
worfhip  the  Lord  at  'Jervjalcm. — Among  others  that  came 
to  hear  the  Word,  were  feveral  Minifters  whom  the  Lord 
has  been  pleafed  to  honour,  in  making  Inftruments  of 
bringing  many  Sons  to  Glory.  One  was  a  Dutch  Cal- 
viniftical  Minifter,  mmed  Freeing  Houfcn,  Paftor  of  a 
Congregation  about  Four  Miles  off"  New  Brwijwick ;  he 
is  a  worthy  old  Soldier  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  was  the 
Beginner  of  the  great  Work  which  I  truft  the  Lord  is 
carrying  on  in  thefe  Parts. — He  has  been  ftrongly  oppofed 
by  his  carnal  Brethren,  but  God  has  always  appeared  for 
him  in  a  furpriiing  Manner,  and  made  him  more  than 
Conqueror,  thro'  his  Love. — He  has  long  fmce  learnt  to 
fear  him  only  who  can  deftroy  both  Bodv  and  Soul  in 
Hell. —Another  was  one  Mr.  Crofs,  Minifter  of  a 
Congregation  at  Barking-Bridge,  about  Twenty  Miles 
from  BrunJzuicL — A  moft  remarkable  Out-pouring  of  the 
Spirit  has  been  frequently  yr^?z  in  his  AfTembly,  for  which 
he  has  been  oppofed  much  by  natural  Men. — He  himfelf 
told  me  of  many  wonderful  EfFefts,  and  fudden  Conver- 
fions  that  had  been  wrought  by  the  Lord  under  his  Mi- 
niftry. — For  fome  Time  Eight  or  Nine  ufed  to  cottie  to 
him  together,  in  deep  Diftrefs  of  Soul ;  and  I  think  he 
faid.  Three  Hundred  of  his  Congregation,  which  is  not 
very  large,  were  effedually  brought  Home  to  Christ; 
but  tho'  they  are  the  excellent  ones  of  the  Earth,  they  are 
look'd  upon  as  Enthufiafts  and  Madmen,  and  treated  as 
fuch  by  thofe  who  know  not  God,  and  are  ignorant  of 
the  hidden  Life  of  Jesus  Christ  in  their  Hearts.  He 
indeed  is  one  who  I  believe  would  rejoice  to  fufFer  for  the 

Lord  Jesus. — Oh!   that  I  may  be  like  minded! A 

Third   Minifter    was  one  Mr.  Camel^    who  has  been  a 

Preacher  of  the  Doctrines  of  Grace  for  thefe  Four  Years,- 

was  a  regular  moral  Liver,    and  accounted  a  very  good 

F  '  Man, 


'43       Mr.  W  H I T  E  F I E  L  d' J  Joumal 

Man,  but  within  thefe  few  Months  being  convinced  of 
Sin,  and  that  he  knew  nothing  experimentally  of  Jesus 
Christ,  tho'  he  had  pretended  to  preach  him  fo  lono:, 
after  many  Struggles  with  himfelf,  he  told  the  Synod  he 
was  unconverted,  and  therefore  dared  not  preach  'till  he 
was ;  accordingly,  he  has  left  off"  preaching  thefe  Two 
Months,  and  has  labour'd  under  unfpeakable  Anguifh  and 
Diltrefs  of  Soul. — By  fome  he  is  look'd  upon  as  melan- 
choly, and  befides  himfelf;  but  I  had  much  Difcourfe  with 
him,  and  really  believe  thefe  Humiliations  will  prepare 
him  for  great  and  eminent  Services  in  the  Church  of 
GoEf. — His  Cafe  puts  me  in  Mind  of  Proteffor  Franks 
who  being  on  EaJ}er-Day  to  preach  on  the  Nature  of 
pivine  Faith,  and  finding  he  had  not  that  Faith  himfelf, 
was  convi6led  by  God  of  his  unregenerate  State,  upon 
which  he  ran  into  the  Woods,  was  there  deeply  humbled, 
and  at  lad  became  a  mofl  exalted  Inftance  of  Faith.  At 
our  Perfuafion,  Mr.  C-a/W' prom i fed  to  preach  next  Sun- 
day, and  I  believe  will  be  inftrumental  in  convicting 
many  Heart  Hypocrites  among  the  Diffentinj  Miniflers. — 
For  that  there  are  many  fuch  is  evident  from  this ; — tho' 
they  hold,  and  have  been  bred  up  in,  and  preach  the 
Do£lrincs  of  Grace,  yet  whenever  the  Power  '.f  God  ap- 
pears in  any  Congregation,  they  cry  it  down  as  much  as 
our  A/Iinifters  of  the  Church  of  England.  Oh  that  the 
l^ord  may  cotnfort  poar  Air.  Camel,  aiid  canf4  him  to  de-. 

ten   thefe  If'ohes   in   Sheep's  Ckathing  ' With  thefe 

Minifters,  and  many  otlier  Difciples  of  our  dear  Lord 
Jesus,  \  took  fweet  Counfel ;  we  eat  our  Bread  with 
Gladnefs  and  Singienefs  of  Heart,  and  comforted  ourfclves 
with  this  Confidtration,  that  thu'  we  mufl  be  fcpaiated 
from  each  other  on  Earth,  yet  we  fhould  fit  down  to  cat 
Bread  Ayith  Abraham.,  Jjaac,  and  Jacob.,  in  the  Kingdom 
of  Heaven.  Hajlen,  O  Lord,  thii  bleiJid  Tuner  Ok 
v^bcn  will  thy  J^inrcicrji  (om(  I 

Mcilihihead^  and  '^frent-To^un, 

Wednef/Iay..,  Novemler  21.     Set  out  earl v,    with  about 

9  Score  in  Company,   tor  Maidenhead,    a  little  more  than 

Twenty  Miles  from  Urwrfwiek,   where,  at  Mr.  Temient^ 

■  f»t;^u£ff,  \  had  appointed  to  ^.rcach  a?  to  Daj . — .A,t  Noon 


ci  nEW-rORlt,  43 

Vi  got  thither,  and  I  preached  from  a  Waggon  \o  about 
1500  Perfons  on  the  Converfion  of  SauU  and  God  waS 
pleafed  to  diredt  my  VV<^rds,  and  enabled  me  to  fpeak  fo 
fuitably  to  the  Condition  of  the  poor  defpifed  Chriftians 
in  thofe  Parts,  that  they  know  not  well  how  to  exprefs 
their  Satisfaction.  The  Lord  is  gracious  in  all  his  Ways^ 
and  wonderful  in  all  his  Works  I  Oh  that  I  cotdd  praife 
him  as  I  ought  !  Here  one  Mr.  Rotulandy  another  faith- 
ful Miniller  of  Jesus  Christ,  gave  us  the  Meeting. — 
He  has  been  a  Preacher  about  Two  Years,  has  went 
about  doing  Good,  and  had  many  Seals  to  his  Miniftry. — - 
Much  of  the  Simplicity  of  Christ  was  difcernable  in 
his  Behaviour.  Bl^^ed  be  G  O  D  for  fending  forth  fuch 
burning  and  Jhining  Lights  in  the  Midji  of  the  thick  Dark- 
nefs  that  is  upon  the  Face  of  this  Generation  ! — Thou  Lotd 
of  the   Harvejl,  fend  forth  more  fuch   Labourers  into  thy 

Harveft  ! After  Sermon,  we  were  kindly  entertain'd 

at  a  Houfe  near  the  Place  where  I  preached,  and  being 
ftrongly  defired  by  many,  and  hearing  a  condemn'd  Ma- 
lefactor was  to  fufFer  there  that  Week,  in  Company  with 
above  Thirty  Work,  I  went  to  Trent  Town^  Ten  Miles 
from  Maidenhead^  and  reached  thither  by  Five  in  the 
Evening. — Here  God  was  pleafed  to  humble  my  Soul, 
and  bring  my  Sins  to  Remembrance,  fo  that  I  could 
fcarcc  hold  up  my  Head. — However,  knowing  that  God 
called,  I  went  out  trufting  in  his  Divine  Strength,  and 
preached  in  the  Court-Houfe  ;  and  tho*  I  was  quite  bar- 
ren and  dry  at  the  Beginning  of  my  Difcourfe,  yet  God 
enabled  me  to  fpeak  with  great  Sweetnefsj  Freedom,  and 
Power,  before  I  had  done.  Tiie  unhappy  Criminal 
feem'd  harden'd,  but  I  had  great  Reafon  to  believe  fome 
Good  was  done  in  the  Place.  Lordy  fend  forth  ethers  to 
carry  it  on^  for  thy  dear  Son's  Sake  I 

Trent  To^xn^  and  Nefiivnifii, 

Thmfday^  Ncvnnhcr  11.  Set  out  for  Nejhamini  (twenty 
Miles  diitant  from  Trent  Town)  where  old  A4r.  Tennent 
lives,  and  keeps  an  Academy,  and  where  I  was  to  preach 
to  Day,  according  to  Appointment.  About  Twelve  we 
came  thither,  and  found  above  3OCO  People  gather'd  to- 
gether in  the  Meeting  Houfe  Yard  >  and  Mr*  William 
Y  a  Tenncnt 


44  ^^'  WHITEFlELD'i  "joumol 

Tennent,  and  eminent  Servant  of  Jesus  Christ,  preach* 
ing  to  them,  becaufe  we  had  flayed  beyond  the  Time  ap- 
pointed. When  I  came  up,  he  foon  ftopp'd,  and  fung  a 
Pfalm,  and  then  I  began  to  fpeak  as  the  Lord  gave  me 
Vtterance. — At  firft  the  People  feem'd  unafFeded,  but  in 
the  midftof  my  Difcourfe,  the  Pouter  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
came  upon  me,  and  I  felt  fuch  a  Struggling  within  my- 
felf  for  the  People,  as  I  fcarce  ever  felt  before  — The 
Hearers  began  to  be  melted  down  immediately,  and  cry- 
much  ;  and  we  had  good  Reafon  to  hope  the  Lord  intend- 
ed Good  for  many.  After  I  had  finifhed,  Mr.  Gilbert 
Termc?it  gave  a  Word  of  Exhortation  to  confirm  what  had 
been  deliver'd.  At  the  End  of  his  Difcourfe,  we  fung  a 
Pfalm,  and  then  difmifs'd  the  People  with  a  Bleffing. 
Oh  that  the  Lord  may  fay  Amen  to.  it  ! — After  our  Exer- 
cifes  were  over,  we  went  to  old  Mr.  Tennent,  who  en- 
tertain'd  us  like  one  of  the  ancient  Patriarchs.  His  Wife 
to  me  feemed  like  Elizabeth,  and  he  like  Zacchary  ;  both 
as  far  as  I  can  find,  walk  in  all  the  Ordinances  and  Com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  bkmelefs. — Tho'  God  was 
pleafed  to  humble  my  Soul,  fo  that  I  was  obliged  to  re- 
tire for  a  while,  yet  we  had  fweet  Communion  with  each 
other,  and  fpent  the  Evening  in  concerting  what  Mea- 
fures  had  befi  be  taken  for  promoting  our  dear  Lord's 
Kingdom.  It  happens  very  providentially,  that  Mr.  Te7i~ 
nent  and  his  Brethren  are  appointed  to  be  a  Presbytery  by 
the  Synod,  fo  that  they  intend  breeding  up  gracious  Youths, 
and  fending  them  out  from  Time  to  Time  into  our  Lord's 
Vineyard.  The  Place  wherein  the  young  A'len  fludy 
now  is  in  Contempt  call'd  the  College.  It  is  a  Log- 
Houfe,  about  Twenty  Feet  long,  and  near  as  many 
broad  ;  and  to  me  it  feemed  to  refemble  the  Schools  of 
the  old  Proohets.—  For  that  their  Habitations  were  mean, 
and  that  they  fought  not  great  Things  for  themfelves,  is 
plain  from  that  Paflage  of  Scripture  wherein  we  are  told, 
that  at  the  Feafl  of  the  Sons  of  the  Prophets,  one  of  them 
put  on  the  Pot,  whilft  the  others  went  to  fetch  fome 
Herbs  out  of  the  Field.  All  that  can  be  faid  of  moft  of 
our  publick  Univerfities  is,  they  are  all  glorious  zvithout. 
From  this  defpifcd  Place  Se''en  or  Eight  worthy  Minifters 
of  Jesus  have  lately  been  fent  forth;  more  are  almofl 
ready  to  be  fcnt,    and  a  Foundation   is  now  laying  for  the 

Inlhudion 


at  P  UILADELP  HIA.     4^ 

InftruAion  of  many  others.  The  Devil  will  certainly 
rage  againft  them,  but  the  Work,  I  am  perfuaded,  is  of 
God,  and  therefore  will  not  come  to  nought.  Carnai 
Minifters  oppofe  them  ftrongly  ;  and  becaufe  People, 
when  awaken'd  by  Mr.  Tennent,  or  his  Brethren,  fee 
through,  and  therefore  leave  their  Miniftry,  the  poor 
Gentlemen  are  loaded  with  Contempt,  and  look'd  upon 
(as  all  faithful  Preachers  will  be)  as  Perfons  that  turn  the 
World  upfide  down. — A  notable  War  I  believe  is  com- 
mencing between  Michael  and  the  Dragon,  we  can  ea- 
fily  guefs  who  will  prevail.  The  Seed  of  the  Woman  JhalL 
bruife  the  Serpent's  Head. 

Nefiamini,    Abingdon  and  Philadelphia, 

Friday,  November  23.  Parted  with  dear  Mr.  Tennent, 
and  his  other  worthy  Fellow-labourers,  but  promifed  to 
remember  each  other  publickly  in  our  Prayers.  Rode  to 
Abingdon  about  10  Miles  from  Ncjha?nini,  and  preached  to 
above  2000  People  from  a  Porch- window  belonging  to  the 
Meeting- houfe,  whither  I  was  invited  Yefterday,  after  I 
had  preached  at  NeJJmmini.  Many  of  the  People  feemed 
afFedted  ;  and  1  think  I  have  not  feen  greater  Things,  no 
not  in  England.  It  is  furprizing  how  fuch  Bodies  of 
People  fo  fcattered  abroad,  can  be  gathered  at  fo  fhort  a 
Warning.  I  believe  at  Nejlmmini  there  might  be  near  a 
thoufand  Horfes,  which  the  People  do  not  fit  on  to  hear 
the  Sermon  as  in  England,  but  tie  them  to  the  Hedges ; 
and  thereby  much  Diforder  is  prevented.  AiToon  as  I 
had  done,  irelh  Invitations  were  made  me  to  come  to  fe- 
veral  Places,  would  Time  and  Bufinefs  permit.  Tho*  it 
was  cold,  the  People  flood  very  patiently  in  the  open  Air, 
and  feem'd  in  no  Hurry  to  return  home  after  the  Difcourfes 
were  ended.  What  are  outward  Things  to  a  Soul  intent 
on  God  \  Lefs  than  nothing. 

AfToon  as  I  had  nniftied,  I  haftened  to  Philadelphia^ 
and  blefled  be  God  found  my  Family  in  good  Order,  and 
ail  Things  carried  on  accordmg  to  my  Defire.  Oh  how 
can  I  exprefs  my  Tiiankfulnefs  for  this  little  Excurfion  ! 
The  Lord  has  done  great  Things  for  us  in  it,  whereat  the' 
People  of  God  are  much  rejoiced.  Oh  that  I  may  noi{? 
begin  to  do  fcnuthing  for  Qhrifi,    not  to  jufiify  my  Perfon, 

ha 


46       Mr.  W  H  I  T  E  F I E  L  dV  'Journal 

hut  my   Fa'itb^    and   to  jhcvj  ?ny  Love  and  Gratitude  fof 
•what  God  has  dene  for  ?ny  Soul. 

Saturday^  Novemher  24,  Preached  this  Morning  in  the 
Church  with  much  Freedom  and  Power.  Afterwards  fe- 
veral  came  to  me  enquiring  about  inward  Feelings  and  re- 
ceiving the  Holy  Ghoft;  and  I  found  many  began  to  be 
awakened  out  of  their  carnal  Security  by  the  Word 
preached.  Received  an  excellent  Letter  from  one  grie- 
voufly  vexed  with  Temptations,  whom  God  has  been 
pleafcd  to  make  me  an  Inftrument  of  comforting.  Preach- 
ed again  at  four  in  the  Afternoon  in  the  Church,  that  be- 
ing judged  more  convenient  than  the  Market-place,  as 
the  Weather  was  fo  cold,  A  vaft  Concourfe  of  all  Deno- 
minations were  prefcnt.  God  gave  me,  particularly  to- 
wards the  Clofe  of  my  Sermon,  to  fpeak  with  divine  E- 
nergy.  A^^er  Sermon,  I  vifited  two  fick  Perfons,  Tupped 
comfortably  with  my  Family,  and  laid  me  down  with  a 
ilrong  Defire  to  fee  my  own  Unworthinefs,  and  the  Free- 
nefs  and  Riches  of  that  Grace  which  alone  has  made  me 
to  differ  from  the  moft  abandoned  of  Men.  Whatever  o- 
thers  may  fee  inthemfelves  I  know  not.  This  one  Thing 
I  know,  I  fee  nothing  but  Hell  in  my  Soul.  And  there- 
fore, whenever  I  do  glory,  I  defire  only  to  glory  in  thee, 
O  Lord ! 

Sunday,  November  25.  Had  great  Travail  of  Soul,  and 
flruggling  within  myfelf  about  a  Text  to  preach  on,  and 
Could  not  conceive  the  Reafon  of  fuch  uncommon  Per- 
plexity :  At  laft  I  fixed  on  one  for  the  Morning,  and 
trurted  to  God  to  dire£l  me  to  one  for  the  Evening.  But 
before  I  came  from  Church  God  fhewed  me  what  I  fhould 
do.  For  after  I  had  done  Preaching,  a  young  Gentle- 
man, once  a  Minifter  of  the  Church  of  England,  but  now 
a  Secretary  to  A4r.  Penn,  flood  up  with  a  loud  Voice, 
and  warned  the  People  againft  the  Doctrine  I  had  been 
delivering,  urging.  That  there  was  no  fuch  Term  as 
imputed  Righteoujnefs  in  Holy  Scripture  ;  That  fuch  a 
Dodlrine  put  a  Stop  to  all  Goodnefs;  That  we  were  to 
be  judged  for  our  good  Works  and  Obedience  ;  and  were 
commanded  to  do  and  live. — When  he  had  ended,  I  de- 
nied his  firll  Propofition,    and  brought  a  Text  to  prove 

an 


at  PHILADELPHIA,        47 

an  Imputed  Righteoufnefs  was  a  Scriptural  Expreflion  ;  but 
thinking  the  Church  an  improper  Place  for  Difputation,  I 
faid  no  more  at  that  Time.  The  Portion  of  Scripture 
appointed  for  the  Epiftle,  was  Jercm.  xxiii.  wherein  were 
thefe  Words,  TheLord  ourRichteousness. 
Upon  thefe  I  difcourfed  in  the  Afternoon,  and  (hewed 
how  the  Lord  Jesus  v/as  to  be  our  whole  Righteouf- 
nefs. Proved  how  the  contrary  Do<ftrine  overthrowed  all 
Divine  Revelation.  Anfwered  all  the  Objeftions  that 
were  made  againft  the  Dodlrine  of  an  imputed  Righte- 
oufnefs. Produced  the  Articles  of  our  Church  to  illuftrate 
it,  and  concluded  with  an  Exhortation  to  all  to  lay  afide  a 
Reafoning  Infidelity  ;  and  to  fubmit  to  Jefus  Chrift,  who 
•is  the  End  of  the  Law  for  Righteoufnefs  to  every  one 
that  believeth.  The  Verfes  at  the  Beginning  of  the  Chap-, 
ter  out  of  which  the  Text  was  taken,  are  very  remark- 
able. {Jer.  xxiii.  I,  2,  3,  4.)  God  was  pleafed  to  fulfil 
that  Promife  in  me  ;  for,  blcfled  be  his  Name,  I  was  not 
difmayed. — The  Word  came  with  Power;  the  Church 
was  thronged  within  and  without,  all  wonderfully  atten- 
tive, and  many,  as  I  was  informed,  convinced  that  the 
Lord  Christ  was  our  Righteoufnefs.  In  the  Evening  the 
Gentleman  came  to  me,  but  alas !  was  fo  very  dark  in  ail 
the  Fundamentals  of  Chriftianity ,  and  fuch  an  intire 
Stranger  to  inward  Feelings,  that  I  was  obliged  to  fay  to 
him,  Jrt  thou  a  Mq/Ier  of  Ijrael.,  and  knowej}  not  thefe 
Things  ?  Lord  Convi^  and  Convert  him  for  thy  infnite 
Mercfs  Sake. 

Went  to  the  Quaker's  Meeting  for  a  little  Time. 
Gave  the' Sacrament  at  a  private  Houfe,  and  came  home 
and  exhorted,  prayed  and  fung  Pfalms  with  a  Room  full 
of  People.  They  follow  me  wherever  I  go,  as  they  ufed 
to  do  in  Londsn ;  and  I  believe  a  noble  Gathering  of  Souls 
might  be  in  this  Place.  Here,  as  elfewhere,  they  only 
want  fomebody  to  preach  the  Truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus. 
Deaie/l  Lord^  remember  thy  Church,  and  revive  thy  IVork 
amongjl  us  in  the  mictji  ef  the  Days  ! 

Monday^  Ncvemhtr  26.  Read  Prayers  and  preached 
twice  in  the  Church  to  very  large  and  attentive  Congrega- 
tions. The  Word,  I  perceived,  came  with  great  Power, 
^ji4  People  i\ow  apply  to  me.  fo  faft  for  Advice  undec 


4^       Mr.  Whitefield'j  Journal 

Convictions,  and  fo  continually  crowd  in  upon  me,  tint  I 
have  not  fo  much  as  Time  to  write  a  Letter  to  my  Enr. 
glijh  Friends.  Some  little  Prefents  have  been  fent  for  the 
Orphan-houfe,  and  a  large  Colledlion,  I  believe,  might  be 
made :  But  I  chufe  to  defer  that  till  my  Return  hither  a- 
gain.  As  yet  it  feems  abfolutely  neceflary  for  the  Good  of 
the  Church  in  general,  and  my  Orphans  in  particular, 
that  I  fhould  vifit  every  Place  in  America  whither  I  have 
been  before. — Good  Lord  dirc^  my  Goings  in  thy  Way  ! 

Fhiladelphia  and  German  Toion. 

'tuefday,  November  27.  According  to  Appointment, 
preached  at  German  Town,  feven  Miles  from  Philadel- 
phia, off  a  Balcony,  to  above  6000  People,  Before  I  be- 
gan I  retired,  and  was  humbled  at  the  Throne  of  Grace. 
But  God  ftrengthened  me  to  fpeak  very  near  two  Flours 
with  fuch  Demonftration  of  the  Spirit,  that  great  Numbers 
continued  weeping  for  a  confiderable  Time.  I  have  not 
feen  a  more  gracious  Melting  for  a  long  Seafon.  After 
Xhad  done,  People  came  to  me  fliaking  me  by  the  Hand, 
and  inviting  me  to  their  Houfes,  and  frefli  Places.  A 
German  moft  kindly  entertain'd  me.  I  had  fweet  Con- 
verfe,  and  felt  a  bleffed  Union  and  Communion  with 
many  Souls,  though  of  different  Nations  and  ProfefTions. 
I  think  there  are  no  lefs  than  fifteen  particular  Denomina- 
tions of  Chriftians  in  German  Town,  and  yet  all  agree  in 
one  Thing,  that  is,  to  hold  Jesus  Christ  as  their  Head, 
and  to  worfhip  him  in  Spirit  and  in  Truth.  I  talked 
with  one  who  had  been  banifhed  out  of  Switzerland  for 
preaching  Chriff,  and  Numbers  are  fcattered  round  about 
the  Town  who  were  driven  out  of  their  native  Countries 
for  the  Sake  of  their  Holy  Religion.  About  Four  in  the 
Afternoon  we  went  in  Company  with  rrtany  dear  Dif- 
ciples  of  the  Lord,  to  fee  one  Conrade  Mattheus,  an  aged 
Hermit,  who  has  lived  a  folitary  Life  near  Forty  Years. 
He  was  an  Heir  to  a  great  Eftate,  but  chofe  a  voluntary 
Poverty.  He  has  work'd  hard,  but  would  always  work 
without  Wages.  He  is  now  unable  to  do  much,  but  God 
fends  fomebody  or  other  to  feed  him.  A  Friend  built 
ihim  the  little  Houfe  wherein  he  lives ;  and  Jefus,  I  am 
peifuaded,  dwelL  with  him.     He  talk'd  moft  feelingly  of 

inward 


nt  PHlLAbELPillA.      4$ 

inward  Trials;  and  when  I  asked  him  whether  he  had 
hot  many  fuch  in  fo  clofe  a  Retirement,  he  anfVvered, 
* '  No  Wonder  that  a  fingle  Tree  that  ftands  alone  is  more 
*'  expofed  to  Storms,  than  one  that  grows  among  others.'* 
After  about  half  an  Hour's  Converfation,  we  took  our 
Leave  ;  he  killed  me  and  my  Friends,  and  was  much  re- 
joiced to  hear  what  was  dbing  in  England.  The  Ger- 
mans^  I  find,  are  about  to  tranflate  my  Journals  into  High 
Dutch,  Our  Hearts  were  knit  together,  and  the  God  of 
Love  was  with  us  of  a  Truth. — About  eight  in  the  E- 
vening  we  reached  Philadelphia^  and  found  great  Num- 
bers waiting  round  my  Door  to  hear  the  Word  of  Life.-— 
After  I  had  paid  a  Vifit,  and  talked  clofely  to  two  Perfons 
who  were  doubting  of  the  Principles  of  the  Qiiakers,  £ 
returned  home ;  and  though  I  was  weak,  I  could  not  bear 
to  let  fo  many  Souls  go  away  without  a  Spiritual  Morfel  ; 
I  therefore  gave  them  a  Word  of  Exhortation,  as  the  Spi- 
Ht  gave  me  tJtterance,  fung  a  Hymn,  prayed  and  dif- 
mifled  them  with  a  Bleffing.  Many  wept  bitterly,  and 
the  People's  Behaviour  more  and  more  convinces  me  that 
God  has  begun  a  good  Work  in  many  Souls.  Was  there' 
proper  Encouragement  given,  I  am  perfuaded  Georgia 
might  foon  be  peopled  j  many  would  gladly  go  with  me 
thither.  I  cannot  but  hope  that  it  will  be  in  Time  a 
fruitful  Soil  for  Chriftians.  One  great  Reafon,  I  believe^ 
why  Penfilvania  flourifhes  above  other  Provinces,  is  the 
Liberty  of  Confcience  which  is  given  all  to  worfhip  God 
in  their  own  Way  ;  by  this  means,  it  is  as  it  were  an  A- 
fylum  or  Place  of  P^efuge  for  all  perfecuted  Chriftians ; 
and  methinks  they  live  here  as  fo  many  Guardian  An- 
gels.— I  want  to  go  up  in  the  Woods  to  fee  moreof  them» 
but  Time  will  not  permit.  O  when  fhall  the  Children 
of  God  fit  down  together  in  the  Kingdom  of  their  Father! 
There  we  fhall  all  fpeak  one  Language^  and  join  in  finging 
the  Song  of  the  Lamb  for  ever  !  Lord  make  ?ny  Soul  to 
thirjl  more  and  more  after  that  blifsful  Communion  of 
Saints  / 

PtilLAT>ELPHlA 

JVedneJday^  November  28.    Redeemed  a  little  Time  be- 
fore it  was  lightj    to  write  a  Letter  or  tw»  to  my  deaf 
G-  Frienda 


JO       Mr.  W  H I  T  E  F  I  E  L  d'5  ^oumol. 

Friends  in  England.  I  have  not  had  a  A^oment's  Tim« 
before,  fince  my  Return  from  New-York.  People  are  con- 
tinually coming  in,  and  enquiring  with  ftrong  Crying 
and  many  Tears  hoAV  they  muft  come  to  C  h  r  i  s  t.  It 
grieves  me  to  fend  them  avi'ay  vi'ith  fuch  fliort  Anfwers, 
i)ut  NcccfTity  compels  me.  Oh  that  the  Lord  may  fend 
forth  more  Labourers  into  his  Harvejl  ! — Read  Prayers 
and  preached  in  the  Morning,  as  ufual,  to  a  thronged  Con- 
gregation ;  heard  of  more  that  were  under  Convidions, 
and  as  I  was  walking  out  to  Dinner,  a  German  came  to 
ine  f^i)ing,  '*  Thou  didft  fow  fome  good  Seed  Yefterday 
*'  in  German  Toiun^  and  a  Grain  of  it  fell  into  my 
*'  Daughter's  Heart.  Slie  wants  to  fpeak  with  thee,  that 
*'  fhe  may  know  what  fhe  muft  do  to  keep  and  increafe 
"  it."  The  young  Woman  being  near  at  hand,  came  at 
her  Father's  Call.  Both  melted  into  Tears  immediately, 
and  after  1  had  exhorted  her  to  watch  and  pray,  and  keep 
clofe  to  Chriftby  Faith,  I  took  my  leave,  befeeching  God 
to  water  the  good  Seed  his  own  Right  Hand  had  planted 
in  her  Heart. —  In  the  Morning  Notice  had  been  given 
that  I  fliould  preach  my  Farewell  Sermon  in  the  After- 
noon. But  the  Church  (though  as  large  as  moil  of  our 
London  Churches)  being  not  large  enough  to  contain  a 
fourth  Part  of  the  People,  by  the  Advice  of  Friends  we 
adjourned  to  the  Fields,  and  I  preached  for  an  Hour  and 
a  half  from  a  Balcony  ro  upwards  of  ten  thoufand  Hear- 
.ers  very  attentive,  and  much  affeded  with  what  God  en- 
abled me  to  deliver. —  I  endeavoured  to  come  in  all  Plain- 
liefs  of  Speech,  without  any  Refpcdl  of  Perfons.  The 
mention  of  my  Departure  was  a  Grief  to  many,  and  it  al- 
moft  melted  me  down,  to  fee  with  what  Eagernefs  and  ear- 
jieft  Afttdtionthey  follow  after  the  Preaching  of  the  Word. 
If  I  could  preach,  they  would  attend  all  the  Day  long. — 
BlefTed  be  God  for  this  efFedtual  Door.  I  wonder  we  have 
>io  more  Adverfaries  :  By  and  by,  I  expect  Satan  and  his 
Emiflarles  will  rage  horribly. —  I  endeavoured  to  foxe- 
Tvarn  my  Hearers  of  it.  Lord  prepare  us  againfi  a  Day 
^f  fpiritual  Battle!  Took  my  leave  of  the  Governor 
and  Proprietor.  Supped  with  one  of  the  Church-Wardens 
and  his  Friends;  and  when  I  came  home,  exhorted  and 
Aiiig  PiaUixs^  aoid  prayed  wiUi  a  great  Cgmpany  of  People 

wha 


at  PHILADELPHIA.        51 

who  were  waiting  at  my  Door.  After  I  was  in  Bed  I  re- 
ceived the  following  Letter  from  Nciu-Tork, 

Reverend  and  Dear  Sir, 

'  I  was  heartily  forry  that  the  Diforder  of  a  Cold  fhould 

*  hinder  me  from  waiting  upon  you  in  the  Jerfeys :  But 
'  am  in  Hopes  it  was  ordered  by  Divine  Providence  for 
'  the  beft.  I  found  the  next  Day,  that  you  had  left  the 
'  Town  under  a  deep  and  univerfal  Concern  :  Many  were 
'  greatly  affedled,  and  I  hope  abiding  Impreffioiis  are  left 

*  upon  fome. — Some  that  were  before  very  ioofe  and  pro- 
'    fligate,  look  back  with  Shame  upon  their  palt  Lives  and 

*  Converfations,  and  feem  refolved  upon  a  thorough  Re- 
'  formation. — I  mention  thefe  Things  to  flrengthen  you 
'  in  the  blefled  Caufe  you  are  engaged  in,  and  fupport  you 
'  under  your  abundant  Labours. — When  I  heard  fo  ma- 
'  ny  were  concerned  for  their  eternal  Welfare,  I  appoint- 
'  ed  a  Lecture  on  Wedmfday  Evening,   tho'  it  was  not  an 

<  ufual  Seafon.     And  tho'  the  Warning  was  (hort,  we  had 

*  a  numerous  and  attentive  Audience. — In  fliort,    I  can- 

*  not  but  hope  your  coming  among  us  has  been  the  A'leanss 
'  of  awakening  fome  among  us  to  a  ferious  Senfe  oi  prac- 
«  tical  Religion,  and  may  be  the  Beginning  of  a  good 
«  Work  in  this  fecure  and  finful  Place. — Dear  Sir,  Let 
'  your  Prayers  be  joined  with  mine  for  this  defirable  Blef- 

*  fing.  I  defire  your  Prayers  for  me  in  particular,  that  I 
'  may  be  faithful  in  my  Mailer's  Work  ;  That  I  may  be 

*  an  Inflrument  in  the  Hands  of  Chrill  of  pulling  down 
«  the  ftrong   Holds  of  Sin  and    Satan,    and  building  the 

<  Redeemer's  Kingdom  in  this  Place.  Pray  for  us,  that 
'  the  good  Impreffions  any  have  received  may  not  wear 

*  off",  and  prove  as  the  Morning  Cloud,  and  as  the  early 
'  Dew,    but  that  he  would  grant  a  Refurredion  of  Reli- 

*  gion  in  the  midft  of  us,  that  many  may  flock  to  Chriit 

<  as  Doves  to  the  Windows. — I  pray  God  take  you  under 
'  his  gracious  Proteclion,    lullain  you  under  your  many 

*  Trials,    and  make  you  glorioufly  fuccefsful  to  convert 

*  Sinners  from  the  Error  of  their  Ways,    and  turning 

*  them  to  the  Wifdom  of  the  Juft. — My  Wife  joins 
«  with  Hie  in  aftcdionate  Regard  to  you,    Mr.  Seward^ 


'52        Mr.  W  H I T  E  F I E  L  D*^  y&unid 

*  and  your  other  Friends,    whom  we  love  in  Sincerity. 
'  I  am. 

Tour  affeSiionate  Brother^  and  V£ry  humble  Servant^ 

E.  Pemberton. 

BlefTed  be  God  for  fuch  Succefs  at  Neiv-Tork.  Nor  is 
he  working  lefs  here. — One  of  the  Printers  has  told  me 
he  has  taken  above  two  hundred  Subfcriptions  for  printing 
my  Sermons  and  Journals.  Another  Printer  told  me  he 
might  have  fold  a  thoufand  Sermons  if  he  had  them  ;  and 
by  the  Perfuafion  of  my  Friends  I  therefore  gave  out  two 
extcmpcre  Difcourfes  to  be  publifhed.  D-eareJl  Lord,  give 
them  thy  Blejjing.—r-'^nmht^s  of  Letters  have  been  fent 
me  from  Perfons  under  Convictions.  And  it  is  unknown 
what  deep  Impicffions  have  been  wrought  in  the  Hearts  of 
Hundreds. —  ^n  Oppofer  told  me  I  had  unhinged  many 
good  Sort  of  People:  And  indeed  I  believe  many  that  con- 
tented themfelves  with  goad  Dcfires,  arc  now  convinced 
they  muft  have  good  Habits  a!fo,  and  be  thoroughly  borr^ 
again  ere  they  can  fee  the  Kingdom  of  God. —  Many  poor* 
Sinners  have,  I  truft,  been  called  home,  and  great  Num- 
bers are  under  flrong  Conviflions.  As  I  have  fown  fpiri- 
tual  Things,  People  were  willing  I  Ihould  reap  carna^ 
Things. — They  have  therefore  fcnt  me  Butter,  Sugar, 
Chocolate,  Pickles,  Cheefe  and  Flower  for  my  poor  Or- 
phans ;  and  indeed  I  could  almofl  fay  they  would  pluck  out 
their  own  Eyes  and  give  me. — Bleficd  be  God,  for  the  great 
Work  begun  in  thefe  Parts. — The  Word  has  run  very  fwift- 
ly,  and  been  much  glorified.— 0/; /•/;«/■  ichat  God  fays  of  the 
Church  I?/' Philadelphia  in  the  Revelations,  fnny  be  noiu  ful- 
filled in  the  City  called  after  her  Name  ! — /  knoiu  thy 
IVorki.  Behold  I  have  fet  before  thee  an  open  Door^  and, 
320  Man  can  flmt  it ;  behold  I  will  juake  them  of  the  Syna- 
gc/gue  of  Satan^  behold  I  will  make  them  to  come  and  wor- 
Jhip  bifore  thy  Fccty  (i)id  to  knoiu  th(it  J  have  loved  thee. 

Philadelphia^  Chefler  ^nd  Wilmington. 

Thutfdayy  November  29.  Had  the  Satisfa<51ion  of  fettling 
1^11  my  Family  Affairs  according  to  my  Defire,  got  confi- 
icrably  by  the  Goods  that  were  fold  for  th?  Poor,  and 


^t  PHILADELPHIA.      53 

fiad  a  Sloop  lent  me,  which  Mr.  Seward  bought  and  named 
Savannah^  in  which  I  left  Orders  for  my  Family  to  fet 
fail  immediately  after  my  leaving  Philadelphia.  —  My 
Friend  Glad?nan  (the  Captain  mentioned  before  at  the  Be- 
ginning) has  been  a  Help  ineet  for  me,  and  done  every 
Thing  without  giving  me  any  (or  however,  but  little) 
Trouble.  Blefled  be  God,— About  Eleven  ifi  the  Morning, 
having  corrciSted  two  Sermons  for  the  Prefs,  I  took  an  af- 
fectionate Leave  of  my  Family  and  Philadelphia  People. 
•7— From  Seven  in  the  Morning  they  thronged  round  the 
Door,  and  when  we  parted,  oh  how  bi^erly  did  the  poor 
Souls  weep! — As  I  pafled  along  the  Street,  they  came 
yunning  out  to  the  Doors,  and  difcovered  the  Concern 
that  was  in  their  Hearts  by  the  Sorrow  of  their  Counte- 
nances. Near  Twenty  Gentlemen  accompanied  me  oi^ 
Horfeback  out  of  Town, — About  Seven  Miles  off,  ano- 
ther Company  was  waiting  to  meet  us,  fo  that  at  lafl  we 
were  near  200  Horfe. — By  Three  we  reached  CheJIer.^  a 
Town  fifteen  Miles  diftant  from  Philadelphia^  and  after 
we  had  taken  a  little  Food,  I  preached  to  near  500a 
People  from  a  Balcony. — It  being  Court-day,  the  'Jujiices 
fent  Word  they  would  defer  their  Meeting  'till  mine  was 
over,  and  the  Minijler  of  the  Parifh,  becaufe  the  Church 
would  not  contain  the  People,  took  Care  himfelf  to  provider 
the  Place  from  which  I  fpoke.  The  People  were  very 
quiet  and  attentive;  and,  as  I  was  told,  near  1000  came 
from  Philadelphia. — After  Sermon,  many  of  them  took 
their  laft  Farewell,  and  wifhed  me  good  Luck  in  the 
Name  of  the  Lord. — About  fix  in  the  Evening,  we  left 
Chrjlery  and  came  to  Wilmington  (thirteen  Miles)  before 
Nine. — The  Evening  was  warm,  the  Moon  {hone  bright, 
and  the  pious  Difcourfe  we  had  on  the  Way,  made  the 
Time  imperceptibly  glide  away.  Two  loving  Qiiakers 
received  us  into  their  Houfe. — God  alfo  was  pleafed  to 
refrcfh  my  Heart  with  a  Senfe  of  his  Love,  and  after  I  had 
given  a  V/ord  of  Exhortation,  and  prayed  with  my  own 
Friends,  and  fome  others  that  came  in,  I  went  to  B;d,  ad- 
miring the  great  Work  that  was  begun  by  God  in  thefc 
Parts.  \  have  not  fceri  greater  Things,  confidering  tl-ie 
Places,  no  not  in  England !  Oh  that  the  Lord.,  in  An- 
Jiver  to  the  People's  Prayers.,  in  his  due  Tinie^  may  bring 
kic  back  hither  ogain  ! —  I  hope  thcr^  to  fee  fome  fubftan- 
'       ^         "  tiaj 


54       ^^'  W  H  I  T  E  F  I  E  L  D'i   'Journal 

tial  Fruits  of  my  prefent  weak  Endeavours. — Deareft  R6->^ 
deemcr,  make  me  hu?nble,  prepare  me  for  thy  future  Mercies  ; 
and  whenever  thou  feefl  me  in  Danger  of  being  txalted 
above  Meafure^  gracioufy  fend  me  fuch  a  Thorn  in  tht 
Flejh^  as  that  thy  BleJJings  ?nay  not  prove  my  Ruin  ! 

WILMINGTON, 

'  Friday^  November  30.  Had  a  fweet  Retirement  this 
Morning,  preached  at  Noon,  and  again  at  Three  in  the 
Afternoon.— -Received  feveral  frefh  and  preffing  Invitations 
to  preach  at  feveral  different  Places,  but  was  obliged  to 
withftand  them  all. — Oh  that  I  had  a  Hundred  Tongues 
and  Lives f  they  fl)ould  he  all  employ' d  for  yny  dear  Lord 
yESUS!  —  Spent  the  Evening  in  fwect  Converfation 
•with  Mr.  JFilUam  Tennerit,  Brother  to  Mr.  Gilbert  Ten- 
Tient^  a  faithful  Minifter  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  with 
feveral  Ger?nans,  whofe  Hearts  God  has  been  pleafed  to 
knit  to  me  in  a  clofe  and  intimate  Union.  Blejfcd  be  GOD 
fur  the  Communion  of  Saints  I — Lord^  why  am  I  thus  highly 
favoured?  Even  fo^  Father^  for  fo  it  feemeth  good  in  thy 
Sight ! — Was  ever  fuch  a  Monument  of  GOD' s  free  Grace  / 
JVh 0  dzres  defpair,  zvhen  fuch  Mercies  are  daily  poured  on 
fuch  a  Wretch  ^;  /  am  ! 

Neivcaftle^  djriJiian-Bj'idge. 

Saturday,  December  i.  Reached  Ncwcaflle,  ^t^^xx 
Miles  from  Wilmington,  by  Ten  in  the  Morning  ;  was 
met  on  the  Way  by  Mr.  Rofs,    the  Minifter  of  the  Place, 

and  was   kindly  entertain'd  by  Mr.  G the  principal 

Inhabitant,  who  fcnt  to  invite  me  and  my  Friends  Yefter- 
day. — Preached  to  .ibout  2000  People  from  a  Balcony, 
j'bout  Ten  o'  Clock;  but  did  not  fpeak  with  fo  much 
Freedom  and  Power  as  ufual,  by  reafon  God  was  plcafcd 
to  humble  my  Soul  by  inward  Vifitations,  and  a  Bodily 
Tndifpofition.  Lay  on  the  Bed  after  Sermon,  which  re- 
freflied  me  much,  and  rode  and  preached  at  Four  o'  Clock 
at  Chrifian-BridgCy  to  about  the  fame  Number  as  was  at 
Newcajile. — I  believe  near  200  Horfe  came  on  the  Road 
with  us.  I  had  fome  edifying  Converfation  with  fome 
Children  of  God,  as  we  came  on  the  Way,    and  a  great 

Powgy 


tit  PHILADELPHIA,      SS 

fower  from  God  defcending  on  me  and  the  Congregation, 
in  the  Jatter  Part  of  my  Sermon. — I  always  obferve  in-» 
ward  Trials  prepare  me  for,  and  are  the  certain  Forerun- 
ners of  frejh  Mercies.  Oh  what  a  gracious  melting  of 
Souls  was  there  !  Enough  to  convince  (one  would  ima- 
gine) the  greatefl  Infidels. — Oh  with  what  Earneftnefs 
did  People  befeech  me  to  vifit  other  Places !  Surely  ths 
divine  Herbert's  Prophecy  is  now  fulfilling. 

Religion  Jiands  a  Tiptoe  in  our  Land, 
Ready  to  pajs  to  the  American  Strand  !  &c. 

(See  his  Cbtirch  Militant,) 

Sunday,  December  2.  Return'd  laft  Night  after  Ser- 
mon to  Newcajile,  that  I  might  once  more  fee  my  dear 
Family,    who  came  thither  in  the  Sloop  juft  after  I  Iwd 

Jeft  it.  —  Lay  at  the   Houfe  of  Mr.    G n,    and  this 

Morning  went  on  board,  prayed,  fung  Pfalms,  gave  a 
Word  of  Exhortation,  and  rejoiced  much  to  fee  all  Things 
in  fuch  excellent  Order. — My  dear  Friend  the  Captaiji 
told  me  how  kind  the  People  of  Philadelphia  had  been  to 
my  Family  after  my  Departure  :  One  brought  them  But- 
ter, another  Beer,  l^c.  and  the  Colledlor  would  not  tak« 
his  Perquifite  for  clearing  the  Sloop. — The  two  Childrea 
the  People  were  particularly  fond  of,  and  gave  them  fo 
many  Things  that  I  was  obliged  to  defire  them  to  hold 
their  Hands. — Oh  how  plentiful  are  thefe  Mercies  which 
GOD  has  laid  up  for  them  that  fear  him,  even  before  the 
Sons  of  Men  f — About  Ten  we  came  to  Chrijlian-Bri dg 
again,  where  we  had  left  fome  of  our  Friends  laft  Night. 
Here  we  took  a  little  Refrefhment,  and  by  Twelve  reach'd 
JVhitely  Creek,  the  Place  appointed  for  my  preaching.— 
The  Weather  was  rainy,  but  upwards  of  loooo  People 
were  aflembled  together  to  hear  the  Word. — It  furprized 
me  to  fee  fuch  a  Number  of  Horfes. — There  were  feveral 
Hundreds  of  them. — I  preach'd  from  a  Tent  ere(5ted  for 
me  by  Order  of  Mr.  IVilUam  Tennent,  whofe  Meeting- 
Houfe  lay  near  the  Place. — I  continued  in  my  firft  Dif- 
courfe  an  Hour  and  a  Half,  after  which  we  .went  into  a 
Log- Houfe  near  adjoining,  and  having  taken  a  Morfel  of 
Bread,  and  warm'd  ourfelves,  I  preached  a  fecond  Time 
frgm  tb<J  lams  Place, — My  Body,  I  perceived,  was  a  little 

veak 


^6        Mr,  W  H  I  T  E  F  I E  L  d'j  jcurnai 

•weak,  but  God  magnified  his  Strength,  and  caufed  hB 
Power  to  be  known  in  the  Congregation. — Many  Souls 
were  melted  down  ;  and  here  I  had  the  Pleafure  of  meet- 
ing with  one  Mr.  Gelafpie^  another  faithful  Minifter  of 
Jesus  Christ. — He,  as  well  as  Mr.  Tcnnenty  was  very 
Iblicitous  for  my  going  to  his  Houfe,  but  being  pre- 
engaged,  I  rode  Three  Miles,  and  was  kindly  and  hofpi- 
tably  entertain'd  at  the  Hojife  of  one  Mr.  Howell,  who 
came  with  his  Family  fome  Years  ago  from  Cardiff  iri 
J  Vales.  One  in  the  Houfe  had  heard  me  preach  in  Kingf- 
■woody  and  every  Thing  wgs  carried  on  with  fo  much 
Freedom  and  Love^  that  I  rejoiced  much  that  God  had 
fent  me  thither.  1  flayed  up  as  long  as  I  could,  but  fuid- 
hig  my  Body  weaken'd  bv  the  Pofturt  in  which  I  flood 
to  preach,  about  Ten  o'  Clock,  after  Family  Prayer,  I 
went  to  Bed  thoroughly  weary,  but  full  of  that  Peace 
■which  .the  World  cannot  give,  but  which  I  wifh  the 
whole  World  were  Partakers  of. 

MARTLAND.     North  Eaft, 

Monday y  December  3.  Parted  from  fome  more  Friends 
■who  accompanied  us  from  Neiuca/fle,  cat  our  Bread  with 
Gladnefs,  and  came  to  North  Eajl  in  Maryland^  where 
I  appointed  to  preach  as  to  Day. — Little  Notice  having 
been  given,  there  were  not  1500  People,  but  God  was 
%^ith  us,  and  I  obferved  many  were  deeply  afFeded.  Se- 
veral repeated  Invitations  were  fent  me  to  preach  at  other 
Places.  Immediately  after  Sermon,  we  fet  forwards,  and 
pafs'd  over  Siifqueanjiah  Ferry,  about  a  Mile  broad,  and 
were  received  at  a  Gentleman's  Houl'e  that  lay  in  the 
Way.  Tho'  we  were  Eight  in  Company,  yet  all  Things 
were  carried  on  with  great  Freedom  and  Generofity  ;  and 
I  hope  God  fent  us  providentially  thither;  for  the  Gen- 
tleman told  us,  that  he  had  been  a  little  melancholy,  and 
had  therefore  fent  for  fome  Friends  to  help  him  to  drive 
it  away.  The  Bottle  and  the  Bowl  1  found  were  the 
Means  to  be  made  ufe  of;  but  bleiTcd  be  God,  the  De- 
fign  was  in  a  good  meafure  prevented  by  our  coming  in  j 
another  Turn  was  foon  given  to  the  Converfation,  whilfl 
1  endeavour'd  to  talk  of  GoD  as  much  as  I  could.  All 
joined  in  Family  Prayers  I  went  to  Bed,  pitying  the  mi- 

fcrable 


at  MARTLAND.  S7 

ferable  Condition  of  thofe  who  live  a  Life  of  Luxury  and 
Luft,  and  are  led  Captive  by  the  Devil  at  his  Will.  They 
are  afraid  to  look  into  themfelves. — And  if  their  Confci- 
ences  are  at  any  Time  awaken'd,  they  mull  be  lull'd  a- 
fleep  again  by  Drinking,  or  Evil  Company,  None  but  a 
fincere  Chriflian  can  vi^ith  Pleafure  practice  the  Duty  of 
Self-Examination.  Lord,  grant  I  inay  ahvays  fo  live  as  to 
keep  a  Confcience  void  of  Off'ence,  both  towards  thee  and 
towards  Man  !  then  I  Jhall  never  be  lefs  alone  than  when 
alone-, — -for  thou.  Father  of  Mercies,  and  GOD  of  all 
Confolations,  wilt  every  xvhere  be  with  me  ! 

y  OP  p  A. 

Tucfday,  December  J^.  Set  out  about  Eight  In  the 
Morning,  and  took  Leave  of  two  dear  Friends,  who 
parted  from  us  with  weeping  Eyes. — Baited  at  Joppa,  a 
little  Town  about  Fifteen  Miles  off  the  Place  where  we 
lay,  and  gave  a  Word  of  Exhortation  to  about  Forty 
People  in  the  Church.  Oh  that  the  Holy  Ghojl  may  fall 
on  all  them  that  heard  the  Word,  in  as  real  tho'  not  in  fo 
vifibly  miraculous  a  Manner  as  it  did  once  on  Cornelius 
and  his  Houjhold ! — But  Maryland,  ■  as  far  as  I  can  hear, 
feems  to  be  a  Place  as  yet  unwater'd  with  the  true  Gofpel 
of  Christ,  and  no  Likelihood  of  doing  much  Good  in 
it,  unlefs  one  could  abide  in  it  for  fome  Time,-r— They 
have  fcarce  any  Town  worth  mentioning,  becaufe  almoil 
every  Planter  has  a  Landing-Place,  from  which  he  ex- 
ports his  Tobacco  at  his  own  Houfe,  which  generally  lies 
very  near  the  River. — By  this  Means  the  People  are  much 
difperfed,  and  confequently  cannot  be  gathered  together 
without  much  previous  Notice,  which  notwithftanding  is 
difficult  to  be  given,  becaufe  there  are  many  large  Ferries 
between  Place  and  Place. — However,  I  truft  the  Time 
will  come  when  God  will  vlfit  thefe  dark  Corners  of  the 
Earth. — I  long  to  fee  thofe  New  Heavens  and  New  Earth, 
wherein  dwelleth  Righteoufnefs. 

JS}EJVrOTVN2in&ANAPOLIS, 

We  chief  day,  December^.     Lay  laft  NIghfe-at  A^^icw^i^ww, 

Fifteen  Miles  from  Joppa  j  eat  of  what  was  fet  before  usj 

H  join54 


58       Mr.  Whitefield'^  Journal 

joined  in  Family  Prayer;  and,  as  Opportunity  offered, 
put  in  a  Word  for  God. — In  the  Morning  we  fung  and 
prayed  ;  at  Noon  we  baited  at  a  Houfe  lying  about  Fif- 
teen Miles  off,  and  by  Four  in  the  Afternoon  reached 
j^napplis,  a  little  Town,  but  the  Metropolis  of  Maryland. 
The  Houfe  where  we  lodged  was  very  commodious,  con- 
fidering  it  was  in  Maryland -^  but  the  People  of  it  feem'd 
to  be  furprized  when  they  heard  us  talk  of  God  and 
Christ;  notwithftanding,  both  they  and  the  other 
Strangers  attended  very  orderly  at  Family  Prayer,  and  I 
endeavoured  to  recommend  them,  as  I  was  enabled,  to 
the  Mercy  of  our  gracious  and  good  God.  Oh  that  I 
jmay  prevail  in  their  Behalf  1  It  grieves  me  to  my  Soul 
to  fee  poor  Sinners  hanging  as  it  were  by  a  fingle  Hair, 
and  dancing  (infenfible  of  their  Danger)  over  the  Flames 
of  Hell!  Oh  that  God  may  make  me  inftrumental  in 
plucking  them  as  Firebrands  out  of  the  Fire !  For  here  is 
the  Mifery  of  fallen  Man;  he  is  miferable,  poor,  and 
blind,  and  naked,  and  yet  knows  it  riot.  Lord  JE SUSy 
fend  for  thy  we  befeech  thecy  thy  Lighty  and  lighten  our 
Darbiefsy  for  thy  Mercies  Sake  ! 

ANAPOLIS, 

Thurfd-ayy  December  6.  Had  a  providential  Opportu- 
nity of  writing  fome  Letters  laft  Night  and  this  Alorning 
to  England.  Waited  on  Go\'ernor  Oglcy  and  was  re- 
ceived with  much  Civility.  Went  to  pay  my  Refpe^s  to 
Mr.  Stirllngy  the  Minifter  of  the  Parifh,  who  happen'd 
not  to  be  within  ;  but  whilft  we  were  at  Dinner,  became 
with  the  greateft  Civility,  offer'd  me  his  Pulpit,  his  Houfe, 
or  any  Thing  he  could  fupply  me  with. — About  Four, 
he  came  and  introduced  me  and  my  Friends  to  a  Gentle- 
man's Houfe,  where  we  had  fome  ufeful  Converfation. — 
Our  Difcourfe  run  chiefly  on  the  New  Birthy  and  the 
Folly  and  Sinfulnefs  of  thofe  Amufements,  whereby  the 
polite  Part  of  the  World  are  fo  fatally  diverted  from  the 
Purfuit  after  this  One  Thing  needful. —  Some  in  Company 
I  believe  thought  me  too  ftriiSl,  and  were  very  ftrenuous 
in'' Defence  of  what  they  called  innocent  Diverfions  ;  but 
when  I  told  thepi  every  Thing  was  fmful  which  vv^->  not 
done  with  a  fingle  Eye  to  God's  Glory,  and  that  fuch 
'  Enter- 


at  MARTLAND.  59 

Entertainments  not  only  difcovered  a  Levity  of  Mind, 
but  were  contrary  to  the  whole  Tenour  of  the  Gofpel  of 
Christ,  they  lecm'd  fomewhat  convinced,  at  leaft  I 
truft  it  fet  them  upon  doubting^  and  I  pray  "Gqd  they 
may  doubt  more  and  more  ;— for  Cards,  Dancing,  and 
fuch  like,  draw  the  Soul  from  God,  zndlull  itapeep  as 
much  as  Drunkennefs  and  Debauchery. — And  every  Mi- 
nifter  of  Christ  ought,  with  the  Authority  of  an  A- 
poftle,  to  declare  and  teflify  the  dreadful  Snare  of  the  De- 
vil, whereby  he  leads  many  Captive  at  his  Will,  by  the. 
falfely  call'd  innocent  Entertainments  of  the  polite  Part  of 
the  World ;  for  Women  are  as  much  enflaved  to  their 
fajhionable  Diver/tons,  as  Men  are  to  their  Bottle  and 
their  Hounds :  Self-pleafing,  Self-feekihg  is  the  Ruling 
Principle  in  both  ;  and  therefore  fuch  Things  are  to  be 
Spoken  againft,  not  only  as  {a  many  tricing  AimifementSy 
but  as  Things  which  fhew  that  the  Heart  is  wholly  alien- 
ated  from  the  Life  ol Govt. — For  if  I  may  fpeak  by  my 
own,  as  well  as  others  Experience,  as  foon  as  ever  the 
Soul  is  ftirred  up  to  feek  after  God,  xX.  cannot  away  with 
zny  fuch  Thing  ;  nothing  but  what  leads  towards  God 
can  delight  it. — And  therefore,  when  in  Company,  I  love 
to  lay  the  Ax  to  the  Root  of  the  Tree,  fhow  the  Necef- 
fity  of  a  thorotigh  Change  of  Heart,  and  then  all  Things 
fall  to  the  Ground  at  once.  My  Friend,  C.  Wefey.,  welt 
defcribes  the  Mifery  of  a  Modern  fine  Lady  in  the  fol- 
lowing Verfes, 

I  Tim.  v.  6. 
Bhe  that  liveth  in  Pleafure  is  dead  while  fie  liveth; 

TjO  IV  haphfs  is  th'  applauded  Virgin's  Lot, 
■*^   Her  GOD  forgetting,  by  her  GOD  fotgot  I 
$tra7ig£r  to  Truth,  unknoiving  to  obey. 
In  Error  nursed,  and  difciplind  to  fir  ay  ; 
Swoln  with  Sdf-JVill,  and  principled  with  Pride,' 
Senfe  all  her  Good,  and  Pajfion  all  her  Guide  : 
Pleafure  its  Tide,  and  Flattery  lends  its  Breath, 
Andfmoothly  waft  her  to  Eternal  Death  ! 

A  Goddefs  here,  f)e  fees  her  Vot'rics  meet, 
Grcu'd  to  her  Shrine^  and  tremble  at  her  ^eet ; 

H-  2  » 


6o       Mr.  W  H I T  E  F I E  L  D'i  Joiimal         , 

S>he  hears  their  Vows,  believes  their  Life  and  Death 

Hangs  on  the  JVrath  and  Mercy  of  her  Breath  ; 

S'uprefne  in  fancy  d  State  Jhc  reigns  her  Hour^ 

u4nd  ghries  in  her  Plenitude  of  Povjcr. 

Hcrfelf  the  only  Objc^  worth  her  Care,  ^ 

Since  all  the  kneeling  TVorld  was  7nade  for  her. 

For    her  Creation  all  its  Stores  difplays ; 

The  Silk  JVornis  Labour,  and  the  Diatnotid's  Blaze  ; 

Jir,  Earth,  and  Sea  confpirc  to  tempt  her  Tajie, 

And  ranfacFd  Nature  furnijijcs  the  Feaji. 

Life's  gaudiejl  Pride  attracts  her  willing  Eyes^ 

And  Balls,  and  Theatres,  and  Courts  arife  :  ^ 

Italian  Songfiers  pant  her  Ear  to  pleafe,  "% 

Bid  the  firji  Cries  of  Infant  Reafon  ccafe,  ?■ 

Save  her  from  Thought,  and  lull  her  Soul  to  Peace.  J 

Deep  funk  in  Scnfe  tlj  imprifon' d  Soul  remains. 

Nor  knows  its  Fall  from  GOD,  nor  feels  its  Chains  : 

Unconfciousjiill,  fleeps  on  in  Error's  Night, 

Nor'jirives  to  rife,  nor  Jirugglcs  into  Light  : 

Heaven-born  in  vain,  degenerate  cleaves  to  Earthy 

(No  Pangs  experienc'd  of  the  fecond  Birth) 

She  only  fallen,  yet  unwaken'd  found. 

While  all  th'  enthraird  Creation  groans  around  f 

Friday,  December  7.      Obferved  two  Perfons  came  in 
with  the  Family  to  Prayer  lart  Night,   and  a  vifible  Alte- 
ration was  made  in  the   Behaviour  of  the  People  of  the 
Houfe ;    preached  in  the  Morning  and  Evening  to  fmall 
-polite   Auditories.— The  Governor  put  by    his  Court  to 
come  to    Morning  Service,  and  at  Noon,    upon  an  Invi- 
taiion  fent  laft  Night,  I  and  my  Friends  dined  with  him ; 
iie  treated  us  very  humanely  ;  and  in  the  Evening,  two  of 
the  Head  Inhabitants  favour'd  me  with  a  Vifit. — The  Mi- 
nifter  feem'd  fomewhat  afFeiSleJ,  and  under  ConvicSlions  ; 
but  1  fear  a  falfe  Politenefs,  and  the  Pomps  and  Vanities 
of  die  World,  cat  out  the  Vitals  of  Religion  in  this  Place. 
I  blcfs  God  I  did  not  fpare  to  tell  my  Hearers  of  it  in  my 
Difcourles,  and  the  Minillcr  told  me  they  took  it  kindly. 
At  Night  Four  Periuns   came  to  join  in  Family  Prayer, 
10  wliom  I  gave  a   warm    E'/hortation  ;    for    God  was 
uleufcJ  to  cnlaigc  and  flicd  abroad  his  Love  in  mv  Heart.— 

Here 


at  MART  LAN  D.      ■      6r 

Here  are  but  few  Inhabitants :    But  God,    I  heps,    will 
fhew  that  he  hath  fome  Chofen  Ones  in  this  Place. 

Upper- Marlborough, 

Satu7-day,  December  8.  Had  more  come  laft  Night  to 
Family-Prayer. — Left  Anapolis  this  Morning.  Baited  at 
Upper- Marlborough^  about  15  Miles  diftant,  intending  to 
go  farther ;  but  being  defired  by  fome  Gentlemen  to  ftay 
and  preach  on  the  Morrow,  I  was  prevailed  upon,  and 
fpent  the  Remainder  of  the  Day  in  fweet  ConverHition 
with  my  Friends,  and  in  Writing  Letters  to  fome  under 
Convictions  at  Philadelphia  ;  and  fupp'd  with  a  Gentle- 
man who  kindly  entertain'd  both  me  and  my  dear  Fel- 
low Travellers. — Our  Talk  ran  upon  the  Fall  of  Man  ; 
but  I  fear  Deifm  has  fpread  much  in  thefe  Parts. — 1  can- 
not fay  I  have  yet  met  with  many  here  who  feem  truly  to 
have  the  Fear  of  God  before  their  Eyes.  Satan  does  here 
particularly  reign  in  the  Children  of  Difobedience. — Dear- 
eft  Hedeeiner^  once  more  lead  Captivity  captive^  and  fend 
thy  Holy  Spirit  even  amongft  thefe  thine  Enemies.  As  thou 
didfi  drive  the  Devil  out  of  the  Country  of  the  Gadarens, 
drive  than  out  of  this  Country  alfo  for  thy  Mcrcfs  Sake. 
Amen.  • 

Upper -Marlborough^   For  tobacco. 

Su'nday,  December  9.  Preached  at  Upper- Marlborough 
to  a  fmall,  polite,  and  feemingly  very  curious  Audience. 
Dined  with  the  Gentleman  with  whom  we  fupped  laft 
Night.  Parted  with  a  dear  Friend  who  came  from  Phi- 
ladelphia ;  took  Horfe,  (there  being  no  Sermon  in  the 
Afternoon)  and  went  a  Sabbath-day's  Journey  as  far  as 
Pifcataway,  where  we  were  kindly  entertained. — Wrote 
fome  Letters  to  our  EngUJh  Friends. — Converfed  to  the 
Ufe  of  edifying,  and  felt  an  uncommon  Freedom  and 
Sweetnefs  in  each  other's  Spirits. — Well  might  our  Lord 
fay,  The  Kingdom  of  God  is  within  you. — For  they  who 
are  truly  born  again  of  God  carry  Heaven  in  their  Hearts, 

Pifcatavjay^ 


62       Mr,  WniTEFiELD'i  yournat 
Tifcafaway,  PoriobaccOy  and  Potomock. 

Monday^  December  10.  Was  fweetly  refreflied  by  the 
Reft  God  gave  us. — Wrote  another  Letter  to  England , 
baited  at  Portobacco^  and  reached  Potomock  by  Three  in  the 
Afternoon.  Potoincck  is  a  River  which  parts  the  Tv/o 
Provinces  Maryland  and  Virginia.  It  is  fix  Miles  broad. 
We  attempted  to  go  over  it ;  but  after  we  had  rowed  a- 
bout  a  Mile,  the  Wind  blew  fo  violently,  and  Night  was 
coming  on  fo  faft,  that  we  were  obliged  to  go  back  and 
lye  at  the  Perfon's  Houfe  that  kept  the  Ferry,  where  they 
brought  out  fuch  Things  as  they  had.  Here  God  was 
pleafed  to  humble  my  Soul  by  Inward  Trials. — I .  retired 
as  foon  as  poflible,  and  bewailed  my  Wretchednefs  before 
him  that  is  of  purer  Eyes  than  to  behold  Iniquity. — Af- 
terwards my  Heart  was  more  at  Eafe  ;  and  God  fhewed 
us  the  Benefit  of  returning  back,  for  the  Wind  was  very 
boifterous,  and  the  Night  fnowy  ;  fo  that  without  a  Mi- 
racle (which  in  fuch  a  Cafe  we  had  no  Right  to  expe<5l) 
both  we  and  our  Horfes  muft  have  been  loft. — Lord  grant 
"ivc  may  ahvays  keep  bettvccn  the  tivo  Extremes  c/'diftrufting 
or  tempting  thee  ! 

Virginia,  Sei}h-Churcl\ 

TJmrfday,  December  II.  HaJ  a  (hort  and  dellgntfuf 
Paflage"^over  the  River  this  Morning,  w^hich  we  could  not 
pafs  laft  Night. — Rejoiced  that  God  had  brought  us  into 
another  Province.  Obferved  the  Country  to  be  much 
more  open,  and  the  Roads  better  than  in  Maryland. 
Pafled  over  two  more  Ferries  in  the  Day's  Journey,  but 
were  put  to  fome  little  Jnconveniency  for  want  of  finding 
a  Publick  Houfe  in  j^he  Way.  However,  at  laft  we  met  a 
poor  Woman  in  our  Road,  who  was  going  to  (cli  Cakes 
to  the  Train'd  Bands,^  of  which  we  bought  fome, —  A 
few  Miles  further,  a  Planter  let  us  have  fome  Provender 
for  our  Beafts,  and  a  little  Milk  and  fmali  Beer  for  our- 
felves. — In  the  Strength  of  which,  by  Six  at  Night  wc 
got  to  a  Place  called  Seals-Churchy  Twenty  Nine  Miles 
from  Potomock. — Here  we  called  at  a  Perfon's  Houfe  to* 
whom   we  were  recommended. — But  the  Miftrefs  of  it- 


at  VIRGINIA.  63 

not  being  at  Home,  the  Overfeer  of  the  Slaves  at  f.rft  was 
unwilHng  to  receive  us.  However,  finding  we  were  wet, 
and  Stran2;ers,  he  was  at  laft  prevailed  upon  to  let  us  abide 
there  all  Night ;  and  in  a  little  Time  furnifhed  us  with  a 
good  Fire,  with  fome  Meat,  Milk,  and  a  Cake  baked  on 
the  Hearth,  which  was  exceedingly  refrefhing,  and  afford- 
ed us  no  fmall  Matter  for  Praife  and  Thankfgiving.  Oh 
that  we  may  abound  in  that  Duty  more  and  more  ! 

Wednejday^  December  12.  Took  a  little  Brcak-faft: 
Went  on,  having  pleafant  Roads  and  a  warm  Day,  'till 
we  came  lo  Pifcataway  Ferry,  Eighteen  Miles  off,  where 
the  Man  of  the  Houfe  fpared  us  fome  Corn  and  Sheaves 
for  our  Horfes,  but  had  neither  Milk  nor  Bread  in  the 
Houfe  for  ourfelves.  —  However,  I  endeavoured  to  feed 
him  with  Spiritual  Bread  ;  but  he  ferioufiy  asked  one  of  us, 
if  I  was  not  a  Quaker,  becaufe  (as  I  fuppofed)  he  heard 
me  talk  of  the  Necefiity  of  being  born  again  of  the  Spirit. — 
If  I  talk  of  the  Spirit^  I  am  a  ^aker  j  if  I  fay  Grace  at 
Breakfaft,  and  behave  ferioufiy^  I  am  a  Presbyterian. 
Alas !  what  muft  I  do  to  be  accounted  a  Member  of  the 
Church  of  England  ?  About  One  we  fet  out,  and  before 
Four  in  the  Afternoon  reached  an  Ordinary.  Here  wc 
were  moft  opportunely  refrefhed  with  what  Meat  was  in 
the  Houfe.  —  There  being  no  other  Publick  Houfe  for 
fome  Miles,  and  being  wearied  more  than  common,  for 
want  of  ufual  Suftenance,  we  tarried  all  Night. — In  the 
Evening  fome  Gentlemen  came  difordered  in  Liquor;  but 
the  Woman  of  the  Houfe  kept  them  from  us,  fo  we  flept 
very  comfortably  on  the  Bed  that  fhe  made  us  in  the  Kit- 
chen.— I  talked  to  her  of  Religion,  and  that  we  were  to 
be  born  again,^^V^eiith ;  but  fhe  thought  God  was  very- 
merciful  5  that  it  would  be  no  Harm  to  fwear  by  her 
Faith.  However,  ihe- was  very  foUicitous  to  pleale  us; 
and  I  could  not  help  remarking  how  the  Devil  loves  to  re- 
prefent  God  as  all  Mercy,  or  all  Jujiice. — When  Per- 
fons  are  azvakencd,  he  would,  if  poflible,  tempt  them  to 
defpair  ;  when  de^id  in  TrefpafTes  and  Sins  he  tempts  them 
to  prefimie. — Lord^  prcfervi  us  from  making  Shipwreck  a- 
gainfi  either  of  theje  Rocks  !  Give  us  fuch  a  Senfe  of  thy 
Jufiice  as  to  convince  us  that  zve  cannot  be  faved  if  zve  con- 
tinue in  Sin,    and  fuch  a  Senfs  of  thy  Mercy  as  may  keep 


64       Mr.  Whitefield'j  Journal 

■us  from  Defpair,  through  a  Living  Faith  in  thy  Dear  Son, 
who  is  the  Saviour  of  Sinners ! 

Tlmrfday^  Deccjnhcr  it,.  Set  out  jufl  as  the  Sun  rofe, 
got  to  an  Ordinary  by  Noon;  eat  what  was  fet  before 
us  with  Comfort,  and  fome  Degree  of  Thankfulnefs,  and 
reached  the  Houfe  of  Colonel  Whitings  Father  to  my  dear 
Friend  Captain  Whitings  long  before  Night.  Here  God 
fpread  a  plentiful  Table  for  us,  and  what  was  flill  more 
defirable,  fent  to  us  a  well-inclined  Perfon.  to  whom  I 
trufl  my  Converfation  was  much  blefs'd.  That  Paflage 
in  St.  John,  wherein  it  is  faid  that  our  Lord  muft  needs 
go  through  Samaria,  (when  the  poor  Woman  was  to  be 
converted)  has  often  been  affeding  to  my  Mind. — The 
fame  good  Providence,  I  truft,  led  me  through  thefe  Parts, 
for  the  Sake  of  the  Perfon  before  mentioned.  Oh  thaty 
like  the  IVoman  at  the  Well,  he  may  have  Chriji  revealed 
in  his  Heart,  and  he  filled  with  a  Hol-j  Zeal  to  go  and  in-' 
vite  his  Neighbours  to  him.     Amen,  Jo  be  it  I 

Gloucefter^  Tork  and  Williamjburgh, 

Friday,  Decemhrr  14.  Left  Colonel  IFhiting^s  about 
Seven  in  the  Morning,  pafs'd  through  Gloucejler  Town, 
a  very  little  Place.  Crollcd  a  Ferry  a  Mile  over.  Dined 
at  York,  a  Place  fomewhat  larger,  and  reached  JVillramS' 
hurgh,  the  Metropolis  of  Virginia,  by  the  Evening.  The 
Gentleman  before  mentioned  was  fo  kind  as  to  accompa- 
ny us  ;  with  him  I  difcourfed  much  of  the  Things  per- 
taining to  the  Kingdom  of  God.— He  fcem'd  to  be  one  to 
whom^  God  had  given  a  Hearing  Ear,  and  an  obedient 
Heart.— I  have  not  met  with  a  Temper  more  refcmbling 
that  of  Nathan  a  great  while.  Oh  that  the  Lord  may 
make  him  an  Ifraelite  indeed  ! 

Saturday,  December  i^.  Waited  on,  and  afterwards 
(at  his  Livitation)  dined  with  the  Governor,  who  received 
me  moft  courteoufly.-^Paid  my  Rcfped^s  to  Mr.. Blair 
the  Commiflary  of  Virginia,  and  by  far  the  moft  worthy 
Clergyman  I  have  yet  converfcd  with  in  all  America. — 
His  Difcourfe  was  favoury,  fuch  as  tended  to  the  tJfe  of 
edifving.     He  received  me  with  Joy,  .i>-ked  me  to  preach, 

and 


at  VIRGINIA.  6^ 

r.nd  wifiied  my  Stay  was  to  be  longer.— Under  God  he 
has  been  chiefly  inftrumental  in  raifing  a  beautiful  Coliegfe 
in  Williamshiirgh^  in  which  is  a  Foundation  for  about 
eight  Scholars,  a  Prefident,  two  Mafters,  and  ProfefTors 
in  the  feveral  Sciences.  Here  the  Gentlemen  of  Virginia 
fend  their  Children  5  and  as  far  as  I  could  learn  by  En- 
quiry, they  are  near  in  the  fame  Order,  and  under  the 
fame  Regulation  and  Difcipline,  as  in  our  Univerfities  at 
home.  The  prefent  Mafters  came  from  Oxford.  Two 
of  them  Tfind  were  my  Cotemporaries.  I  rejoiced  in  fee- 
ing fuch  a  Place  in  America.  It  may  be  of  excellent  \J(q 
if  learning  Chrift  be  made  o?te  End  of  their  Studies,  and 
other  Arts  and  Sciences  only  introduced  and  purfued  as 
fubfervient  to  that. — For  want  of  this,  moft  of  our  EngUjJy 
Schools  and  Univerfities  are  funk  into  mere  Seminaries  of 
Paganifm.  Young  Men's  Heads  are  fluff'd  with  Hcathen 
Mythology,  Chrift  or  Chriftianity  is  fcarce  fo  much  as 
named  amongft  them  ;  fo  that  when  they  come  to  be  con- 
verted, they  are  obliged  to  undo  what  they  have  been  do- 
ing for  many  Years ;  and  they  are  the  moft  happy  who 
can  fooncft  forget  their  Education.  —  Revive^  O  Lord,  a 
Primitive  Spirit,  and  then  %ve  ?hay  hope  for  fo?ne  Primitive 
Schools  to  be  ercded  and  encouraged  amongji  us  ! 

Sunday.,  December  i6.    Preached  in  the  Morning  (as  I 
afterwards  was  informed)  to  the  Satisfa<R:ion  and  Profit  of 
many.     Severn!   Gentlemen  came  from  Tcr^,    14  Miles 
off,  to  hear  mt,    and  were  dehrous  of  my  going  back  to 
preach  at  their  Town  on  the  Morrow. — A  large  Audience 
(I  found)  might  have  been  expeded,  could  timely  Notice 
have  been  given  ;    but  being  in  great  Hafte,  and  there  be- 
ing no  Sermon  cuftontarily  in  the  Afternoon,  I  dined  with 
the  Commillary,    who  entertainei]    me  and  my   Friends 
with  great  Civility,    and  Ici't  IFiUia?nshurgh  in  the  After- 
noon, promifmg,    if  poflible,  to  vifit   thefe  Parts    again 
fome  Time  in  the  Summer.      About  three  Miles  off  the 
Town  we  took   Leave  of  our    Friend  from    Gloiiccjler., 
whofe  Heart  (jod  has  much  melted  by  the  Fooliflincfs  of 
Preaching. — Here  alfo,    as  well  as  at  Williainshurgh^    we 
Ich  fome  Lciters  to   be  fent   to  England. — And   i    could 
not  but  think,  that  God  inteniJed,    in  his  own  Time,  to 
work  a  good  Work  in  thefe  Southern  Parts  oi  America. — • 
1  At 


66       Mr,  Wh  I T  E p  I E  L  dV  Journal 

At  prefent  they  feem  more  dead  to  God,  but  far  lefs  pre- 
judiced than  in  the  Northern  Parts.  At  his  Requeft  I 
gave  the  Printer  leave  to  print  my  Journals  and  Sermons, 
and  I  truft  that  God  who  loves  to  work  by  the  meaneft 
Inftruments,  will  bepleafed  to  blefs  them  to  the  Convic- 
tion and  Edification  of  thefe  his  People. —  Vifit  them^  O 
Deareji  Lord^  with  thy  Salvation. 

Stretch  out  thine  Arm^  Vi^orious  Kingy 

Their  raging  Sins  fubdue. 
Drive  the  eld  Dragon  from  his  Seat, 

jyith  his  Infernal  Creiv  ! 

Monday^  December  17.  Got  over  a  Ferry  three  Miles 
broad  the  laft  Night,  and  providentially  met  with  a  young 
Man  who  fhewed  us  the  Way  to  one  Captain  R — k's, 
who  entertained  us  with  much  Simplicity  and  Freedom. — 
He  feem'd  well  difpofed,  and  was  fo  kind  as  to  go  with 
us  this  A/Iorning  fourteen  Miles  in  the  Way.  At  my  firft 
getting  up  I  perceived  myfelf  much  indifpofed,  but  God 
was  pleaied  to  ftrengthen  me,  and  I  held  out  my  Jour- 
ney till  we  came  to  an  Ordinary  about  30  Miles  from  the 
Place  where  we  lay  laft  Night. — Here  we  met  with  what 
ibme  would  account  very  indifferent  Entertainment ;  but 
God  enabled  us  to  be  refigned  and  thankful. — Bafhfulnefs, 
and  a  Fear  of  being  troublefome,  has  kept  us  fiom  em- 
bracing Offers  of  Gentlemen's  Houfes :  But  we  have  heard 
a  good  Report  of  the  Generofity  of  the  Virginia  Gentle- 
men, and  I  have  great  Reafon  to  believe  what  is  reported ; 
for  I  find  they  are  fo  willing  and  accurtomed  to  entertain 
Strangers,  that  few  think  it  worth  their  while  to  keep  pub- 
lick  Ordinaries.  It  is  good  to  find  People  given  to  Hof- 
pitality. 

Tutfday,  December  18.  Was  very  reftlefs  and  indifpofed 
with  a  Fever  all  Night,  which  continuing  upon  me,  and 
one  of  our  Horfcs  being  foundered,  it  was  thought  advi- 
fable  to  flay  at  the  Ordinary  the  whole  Day. —  Being  ve- 
ry weak  I  could  fcarce  lift  up  my  Head,  or  eat  any  Food  : 
But  God  caufcd  me  to  rejoice  in  it,  fo  that  my  greatefl 
Concern  was  about  theTroublc  I  gave  my  dear  Friends. — 
I  never  feci  the  Power  of  Religion  more  than  when  under 

Out' 


at  NORTE-CAROLINA.        67 

Outward  or  Inward  Trials.  It  is  that  alone  can  enable 
any  Man  to  fuftain  with  Patience  and  Thankfulnefs  his 
Bodily  Infirmities.  Lo7'd^  let  ?ne  feel  the  Power  of  it  more 
and  7nore,  and  then,  though  thou  kill  me,  yet  will  I  put 
my  Truft  in  thee  ! 

NORTH-CAROLINA. 

Wednejday,  December  jg.  Finding  myfelf  fomewhat 
flronger,  and  the  Horfe  alfo  being  in  better  Order,  we 
took  a  fliort  Day's  Journey  of  about  26  Miles,  and  were 
moft  afFe£lionately  received  by  one  Mr.  J — n  in  North- 
Carolina. — A  little  while  after  our  coming  in,  I  begg'd 
Leave  to  lye  down  to  reft  my  weary  Limbs. — And  fome 
Way  or  other,  in  my  Abfence,  my  Friends  acquainted  our 
Hoft  who  I  was. — Upon  which  he  was  fo  rejoiced  that  he 
could  not  tell  how  to  exprefs  his  Satisfadlion.  His  Wife 
alfo  feem'd  moft  follicitous  to  oblige,  and  they  were  only 
concerned  that  they  could  do  no  more  for  us.  The  ho- 
neft  old  Man  told  us,  that  his  Son-in-law,  who  lived  about 
three  Miles  ofF,  ever  fince  he  heard  of  me  in  the  News, 
wifhed  that  I  would  come  thither. — This  is  not  the  firft 
Time,  by  many,  that  I  have  found  the  Advantage  of  the 
Things  my  Adverfaries  have  inferted  in  the  publick  Pa- 
pers :  They  do  but  excite  People's  Curiofity,  and  ferve 
to  raife  their  Attention,  while  all  Men  of  Serioufnefs  and 
Candor  naturally  infer  that  fome  good  muft  be  doing 
where  fuch  Stories  and  Falfities  are  invented.  It  often 
gives  me  unfpeakable  Comfort,  to  fee  how  wifely  God 
over- rules  every  Thing  for  the  good  of  his  Church.  And 
how. he  never  more  effeflually  bruifes  the  Serpent's  Head, 
than  when  he  permits  him  moft  cruelly  to  bruife  our 
Heel. 

The  TForld^  Sin^  Death,  oppofe  in  vain, 
Chr/Jl  by  his  dying.  Death  hath  Jlain  I 
My  great  Deliverer,  and  my  GOD  ! 
In  vain  does  the  old  Dragon  rage. 
In  vain  all  Hell  its  Poivrs  engage  ; 
Nought  can  ivithjland  thy  conquering  Bloci  ! 

I  2  BDEN-^ 


6  8       Mr.  W  H I T  E  F  I  E  L  D'i  Jomiia} 
EDEN-TOWN, 

Tuefday^  December  20.  Found  myfelf  better  in  the  Morn- 
ing than  I  have  been  for  feme  Days  paft.      Took  our 
Leave  of  our  kind  Hoft,  and  travelled  cheerfully  onwards. 
About  Noon  we  lighted  off  in  the  Woods  to  give  our 
Horfes  Provender,  and  to  take  a  little  Rclrefhment  to  our- 
felvcs,    which  we  have  done  every  Day  this  Week,    be- 
caufe  there  are  no  Ordinaries   in  the  Way.     No  one  can 
te!l  with  what  Gladnefs  we  took  our  Food,  and  hov/  com- 
fortably we  praifed  Qod   for  fpreading  us  a  7' able  in  the 
Wildernefs. — By   four  in  the  Afternoon  we  reached  E^ 
den-Town^  a  little  Place,    but  beautifully   fituated  by  the 
Water-fule. — Here  -we  were  well  entertained  at  a  publick 
Houfe  ;    and   tho'   God  was  plcafed  to  humbl?  rny  Body 
by  Weaknefs,    and  my  Soul  by  Conviction  of  paft  Sin, 
yet  before  we  went  to  Reft,  he  was  pleafed  to  refrefli  me 
with  a  Multitude  of  Peace,    and  in  the  m'ui/i  of  my  Hu- 
miliations exalted  me,    by  giving  me  a  more  lively  Senfc 
of  his  Favour  and  Loving-kindnefs,    which  i3  better  than 
Life  itfelf!    I   think  I  often  feel  what  our  Lord  means, 
■when  he  fays  the  Publican  went  down  to  his  I-^oufe  jufti- 
fied  rather  than  the  Pharifee.      I  doubt  not,  but  while  he 
was  pouring  out  his  Soul  and  fmiting  upon  his  Breaft,  the 
lioly  Spirit  overfliadowed    him,    and  fealed  to  him  hia 
Pardon,     it  is  a  dreadful  Miftake  to  deny  the  Doflrine  of 
AiTurances,  or  to  think  it  is  confined  to  a  Time  of  Perfe- 
cutioji,    or  to  the  Primitive  Age^  of  the  Church. — Not 
only    Rightcoufnefs  and    Peace,     but    Joy   in   the   Holy 
Ghoft,  which  is  the  Confequenccof  Aflurance,  is  a  necef- 
fary  Part  of  the   Kingdom  of  God  within  us. — And  tho* 
all  arc  not  to  be  condemned  who  have  not  an  immediate 
Aflurance,  yet  all  ought  to  labour  aft^r  it.      And  I  really 
believe  one  great  Reafon  why  fo  many  go  mourning  all 
their  Life  long,  is  owing  to  their  Ignorance  of  their  Chri- 
ftian  Privileges. — 7'hey  have  not  Aflurance,  bccaufe  they 
ask  it  not ;  they  ask  it  not,  becaufc  they  are  taught  that  it 
docs  not  b^lofig  tq  Chriftians  of  tlicfe  laft  D^ys  ;  whereas 
;(  know  Nunibers  whofe  Salvation  is  written  upon  their 
Hearts  as  it  were  with  a  Sun-beam. — 7'hey  can  rejoice 
in  God  their  Saviour,  an<l  give  Men  and  Devils  the  Chal-» 

i^-r.ge 


at  NORTHXAROLINA.      69 

fengc  to  feparate  them,  if  they  can,  from  the  Love  of 
God  in  Chrift  Jefus  their  Lord  !  Dearcji  Redeemer^  en- 
lighten all  thy  Follovjers  to  fee  then-  Privileges^  and  never 
let  thevi  ceafe  wreJlUng  with  thee,  till  thou  dojl  hlefs  them^ 
hy  ojfuring  them  of  their  Eternal  Salvation  ! 

Why  Jhould  the  Children  of  a  King^ 

Go  mourning  all  their  Days  ? 
Great  Comforter^  defcefid,  and  bring     j 

The  Tokens  of  thy  Grace  ! 
Affurc  their  Confcience  of  their  Parts 

In  the  Redeemer's  Blood  ; 
And  bear  thy  Witnefs  with  their  Hearts^ 

Thqt  they  are  born  of  God  f 

BELL's-FERRT, 

Friday,  December  2i.  Was  refreftied  mqch  both  m 
Body  and  Spirit ;  and  the  Weather  being  too  hazy  to  pafs 
over  the  Sound,  I  had  a  fvveet  Opportunity  given  me  of 
Writing  fome  Things  that  lay  upon  my  Mind. — I  in- 
tended, had  I  ftaid,  to  preach  to  thofe  fevi'  People  that 
were  in  the  Tovi^n :  But  about  Noon  the  Sun  fhining 
bright  and  difpelling  the  Mift,  at  three  o' Clock  we  went 
in  a  Pettiagua  over  the  Sound,  and  were  near  feven  Hours 
in  our  Paflage. — It  was  about  twelve  Miles  over.  God 
favoured  us  with  a  calm  and  pleafant  Night ;  we  praifed 
him  as  we  went  over  by  fmging  Hymns,  and  met  with  ^ 
convenient  Ordinary  when  we  came  on  the  other  Side. — ■ 
How  fhort  a  Way  can  a  Boat  go  in  a  long  Time,  when 
there  is  no  Wind  or  Tide  to  carry  it  forwards  ?  Thus  it 
is  with  the  Soul.  When  God  with- holds  the  gentle  Gale? 
^nd  Breathings  of  his  Spirit  from  us,  we  fail  but  flowly 
towards  the  Haven  of  eternal  Reft.  Happy  the  Man  who 
gets  out  of  himfelf,  and  lives  upon  the  Promifes  of  the  Gof- 
pel. — He  is  fure  whether  he  is  becalm'd,  or  in  a  Storm, 
that  all  fliall  v/ork  together  for  his  good. 

BATH-rOWN. 

Saturday,  December  22.  Set  out  by  break  of  Day,  and 
came  by  eight  at  Night  to  Bath-Town^  near  fifty'  Miles 

hovA 


70      1  Mr,  W  H  I  T  E  F I E  L  D'i  Jountal 

from  BclPs'Ferry. —  It  is  by  far  the  longeft  Stage,  and 
the  worll  Roads  we  have  had  fince  we  began  our  Jour- 
ney. I'he  Ground,  moft  Part  of  the  Way,  was  wet  and 
fwampy,  the  Country  uninhabited,  and  a  very  fenfible 
Alteration  was  difcernible  in  the  Chmate. —  It  was  as  hot 
as  generally  it  is  at  Midfummer  in  ^w^/^w^;  but  we  had 
a  fweet  Breeze  of  Wind  intermixed,  which  made  our 
Riding  through  the  Woods  in  the  Day-time  exceeding 
pleafant.  About  mid-way  we  met  with  an  Ordinary 
■where  we  rcfrefhed  ourfelves  and  Beafts.  We  obferv'd  a 
Variety  of  Birds,  and  in  the  Evening  heard  the  Wolves 
on  one  Si(ic  of  us  howling  like  a  Kennel  of  Hounds, 
which  made  me  refle^  on  what  the  Pfalmift  fays,  Tbe 
Lions  roaring  after  their  Prey  do  Jcek  their  Aieat  from 
GOD. 

"They  range  all  Night  on  Slaughter  hent, 

^Till  j'wnmon'd  by  the  rifing  Morn, 
To  skulk  in  Densy  with  one  Confent, 

The  confcious  Ravagers  return. 

God's  Providence  fent  us  a  Guide,  and  better  Enter- 
tainment at  our  Inn  than  we  have  had  for  fome  Time. 
—  As  we  rode  along,  one  of  my  Friends  faid.  How  dread- 
ful muft  it  be  for  a  natural  Man  to  be  placed  in  fuch  a 
Howling  Wildernefs,  furrounded  with  thofe  many 
Wolves,  Bears,  and  Tygers,  which  come  forth  at  Night 
roaring  upon  him  ?  But  then  added  he,  'bow  Infinitely 
more  dreadful  muft  it  be  to  be  caft  into  Hell,,  and  fur- 
rounded  continually  with  the  Hovvlings  of  damn'd  Spirits  ! 
WJicn  we  came  to  our  Inn,  we  were  told  of  a  Man  and 
Woman  who  one  Night  were  furrounded  with  a  Compa- 
ny of  thefe  Wolves,  and  purfucd  by  them  a  long  Way  j 
this  made  me  think  of  an  Obfervalion  of  Mr.  Gilbert 
Tennent  :  "  The  Creatures  are  up  in  Arms  agai^ift  us, 
*'  to  revenge  their  Maker's  Qi^iarrel  :  Thanks  be  to  God 

for  the  Death  and  Refurredtion  of  our  dear  Lord  Jefus, 

who  has  not  onlv  delivered  us  from  the  Power  of  Wild 

Beafts,  but  of  Death  and  Hell  itfclf !  " 

Tho*  in  a  bare  and  rugged  TFaVy 
Thro'  defart  lonely  Wilds  I  Jl^oy, 


(< 


at  NORTH-CAROLINA,       71 

*rhy  Bounty  Jhall  ?ny  Pains  beguile ; 

The  barren  Wildernefs  fl)all  fynile 

JVith  fudden  Greens  and  Herbage  crown* dy 

And  Streams  Jhall  murmur  all  around  ! 

Sunday^  December  23.  Sent  to  the  Minlfler  of  the 
Place,  and  had  feme  Converfation  with  him  laft  Night ; 
preached  about  Noon  to  uear  100  People,  which,  as  I 
found,  was  an  extraordinary  Congregation,  there  being 
feldom  more  than  Twenty  at  Church.  In  my  preaching 
I  felt  the  Divine  Prcfence,  and  did  not  fpare  to  tell  the 
Hearers  how  I  thought  God  was  angry  with  them,  be- 
caufe  he  had  fent  them  for  a  long  while  a  Famine  of  the 
Word,  and  not  given  them  a  Teaching  Prieft.  — All 
feem'd  attentive  to  what  was  fpoken. — After  Sermon,  one 
poor  Woman  came  with  a  full  Heart,  defiring  my  Prayers; 
I  asked  her  whether  (he  had  been  convided  by  the  Ser- 
mon, or  whether  fhe  knew  Christ  ;  fhe  anfvvered,  ihe 
had  been  feeking  him  for  fome  Time,  but  wanted  to  find 
a  Minifter  who  had  Underftanding  in  Divine  Things. 
This  Cafe  is  not  uncommon  ! — Moft  that  handle  the  Law 
know  not  what  they  fay,  nor  whereof  they  affirm.  Lord 
y  E  SU  S,  in  tJjy  Mercy  purify  the  Sons  o/'Levi  ;  accom- 
plijh  the  Number  of  thine  Eleh,  and  hajlen  thy  Kingdom  : 
Oh  make  no  long  tarrying^  O  our  LORD  and  eur 
GOD! 

NEWBORN  rowN: 

Monday^  December  24.  CrofTed  PampUco  River,  about 
Five  Miles  wide,  Yefterday  Evening. — Lay  at  an  Ordi- 
nary near  the  Water-fide. — Set  out  by  break  of  Day  ; 
c^-ofled  New  River  about  Four  in  the  Afternoon,  and 
reach^  Newborn  Town^  Thirty  Two  Miles  from  Bath 
Town,  by  Six  at  Night.— Perceived  my  Appetite  to  grow 
better;  experienced  fome  inward  Teachings  of  God's 
Spirit  by  the  Way,  ^c.  Had  a  fweet  Communion  in 
Spirit,  after  I  came  to  the  Inn,  with  my  dear  Friends  at 
England,  who  I  fuppofed  were  joining  with  one  Accord 
in  fervent  Prayer,  and  uftiering  in  the  Feftival  of  our  dear 
Lord's  Nativity,  by  finging  of  Hymns  and  Spiritual  Songs. 
This  Time  Twelve  Months  I  was  with  them,  and  even 


^2        Mr.  W  H I T  E  F I  £  L  d'^  Journal 

now  I  am  not  abfent  from  them  ;  my  Soul  is  clofely  united 
with  them,  and  all  God's  Children,  by  the  Spirit  uf  hi3 
dear  Son  ;  and  however  feparated  here,  this  is  my  Com- 
fort, nor  Men,  nor  Devils  can  keep  us  from  meeting  and 
dwelling  together  eternally  hereafter.  Oh  that  the  Cry 
was  made.  Behold  the  Bridegroom  cometh  !  As  the  Hart 
panteth  after  the  Water  Brooks,  fo  doth  my  Soul  long  for 
that  7  ime  wherein  I  fhall  be  fummon'd  to  go  forth  to 
meet  him ! 

Tucjday^  Decc?nher  25.  Endeavoured  fiill  to  keep  m-f 
Mind  as  much  as  pofiible  «n  Union  with  all  thofe  pious 
Souls  who  I  knew  were  rejoicing  in  the  Glad  Tidings  of 
Salvation  by  Jesus  Christ. — Went  to  publick  Wor- 
fnip,  and  received  the  Holy  Sacrament,  which  was  cele- 
brated in  the  Court-Houfe;  but  mourned  much  in  Spirit^ 
to  fee  in  what  an  indifferent  Manner  every  Thing  was 
carried  on. — I  cried  mightily  to  the  Lord  in  my  fecret 
Devotions,  and  in  the  Afternoon  when  I  read  Prayers  and 
preached,  he  was  pleafed  to  (hew  that  he  had  heard  me, 
for  I  fcarce  know  when  we  have  had  a  more  vifible  Ma- 
nifeftation  of  the  Divine  Prefence  fince  our  coming  into 
Ajnerica.  The  People  were  uncommonly  attentive,  moft 
melted  into  Tears,  and  {hewed  what  a  great  Imprefllon 
the  Word  made  upon  their  Hearts. — I  myfelf  was  much 
carried  out,  I  felt  the  Power  of  God  come  upon  me,  and 
I  fpoke  with  Demonftration  of  the  Spirit  to  the  Hearers 
Souls. — After  Sermon,  a  poor  Woman,  with  a  Heart  full 
of  Concern,  ran  to  me,  defiring  me  that  I  would  come 
and  preach  where  (he  lived ;  another  told  me  I  had  given 
him  a  home  Stroke ;  and  indeed  all,  I  believe,  felt  an  un- 
ufual  Efted  upon  their  Minds. — The  Woman  where  we 
lodged  would  take  nothing  for  our  Chrifimafs'D'mncr,  and 
wiflicd  we  could  flay  with  thetti  longer. — This  unexpe<Si:ed 
Succefs  rejoiced  me  the  more,  becaufe  I  looked  upon  it  as 
an  Earneft  of  future  and  n^ore  plentiful  EfFufions  of  God's 
Spirit  in  thefe  Parts. — I  really  believe,  whenever  the  Go- 
fpel  is  preached  in  thefe  Parts  with  Pov/er,  it  will  be  re- 
markably blefb*d.  I  have  fcarcely  heard  of  one  faithful 
Minifier  fent  over  amongfl  them  ;  and  hcvj  Jhall  thq  he- 
lieve  en  him  of  ivhcm  they  have  not  heard  ?  And  how  jholi 
ti^ey  hear  without  a  Pr(aiht,r^  And  haw  Jhall  they  preachy 

unlefs 


at  NORTH-CAROLINA      73 

\file/s  they  are  fent  by  and  taught  of  G  O  D  ?  Oh  how 
v.'ill  it  rejoice  me  to  hear  that  fome  poor  Soul  this  Day- 
was  born  again  !  Then  it  would  be  a  Chrijimas  Day  in- 
deed !  And  why  Ihould  I  doubt  ?  I  have  great  Reafon  to 
thinkj 

In  many  a  Soul  the  Saviour  Jiirr\l ; 
/  truji  fo?ne  yielded,  and  believed. 

Soon  after  Evening  Service,  I  and  my  Friends  took 
Horfe,  rode  about  Eight  Miles,  and  were  fweetly  enter- 
tain'd  at  a  German's  Houfe,  who  kept  an  Ordinary,  and 
had  been  one  of  my  Hearers.  The  People  of  that  Nation, 
(as  far  as  I  can  find)  are  the  moft  induftrious  as  well  as 
ferious  People  that  ever  came  into  Jmerica  ;  I  doubt  not 
but  the  Lord  will  blefs  them  more  and  more. — Wrote 
this  Morning  to  the  Minifter  of  Nezvborn,  who  I  heard 
countenanced  a  Dancing-Malter,  by  fufFering  his  own  Son 
to  be  one  of  his  Learners.  Several  of  the  Inhabitants,  I 
was  informed,  had  fubfcribed  to  his  Aflemblies,  and  they 
were  generally  attended  with  ill  Confequences,  which 
made  me  the  more  defirous  to  leave  my  Teftimony  againft 
them. — .It  grieves  me  to  find  that  in  every  little  Town 
there  is  a  fettled  Dancing- Mafter,  but  fcarce  any  where 
a  fettled  Minifter  to  be  met  with ;  fuch  a  Proceeding  muft 
be  of  dreadful  Confequence  to  any,  efpecially  a  neiv' fettled 
Province.  All  Governors,  if  it  were  only  out  of  a  Prin- 
ciple of  human  Policy,  ought  to  put  a  Stop  to  it ;  for  fuch 
Entertainments  do  not  fo  properly  unbend,  as  altogether 
enervate  the  Minds  of  People,  infenfibly  leading  them  in- 
to Effeminacy,  and  unfitting  them  to  endure  thofe  Hard- 
Ihips,  and  go  thro'  ihofe  Fatigues,  which  muft  necefTarily 
be  undergone,  in  order  to  bring  any  Province  to  Perfecti- 
on. True  Religion  alone  exalts  a  Nation ;  fuch  fmful 
Entertainments  are  a  Reproach,  and  will,  in  Time,  be 
the  Ruin  of  any  People. 

Wedncfday,  December  26.  Set  out  early,  and  rode 
very  pleafantly  till  Dinner-time.  Met  with  fome  com- 
fortable Refrefhment  at  an  Ordinary  on  the  Road,  and 
lodged  at  a  little  Houfe  in  the  Woods,  about  Thirty  Five 
Milss  off  where  we  lay  laft  Night.  The  People  were  ap- 
prized of  my  coming,  and  got  fuch  Th  ngs  as  they  had 
K  in 


74       ^^^>  W  H I T  E  F I E  L  d'5  Journal 

in  a  decent  Manner^  and  we  endeavour'd  to  receive  a!f 
the  divine  Bleffings  with  Thankfuhiefs.  I  had  a  good 
deal  of  Difcourfe  with  the  People  of  the  Houfe,  and  after 
much  previous  and  fuitable  Converfation,  1  baptized  Two 
Strangers  Children,  who  providentially  lay  at  the  fame 
Houfe  that  Night. — I  believe  there  may  be  Hundreds  of 
Children  in  this  Province  unbsptized,  for  want  of  a  Mi- 
nifter.  Oh  that  the  Lord  would  fend  forth  fome  who, 
like  John  the  Bapiifly  might  preach  and  baptize  in  the 
Wilderncfs  I  I  believe  they  would  flock  to  hxm  from  all 
the  Countries  round  about, 

Thiirfday,  December  27.  Set  out  about  Eight  in  the 
Morning ;  crofled  Trent  River,  a  Ferry  about  half  a 
Mile  wide,  and  got  to  an  Ordinary  a  little  Way  out  of 
the  Road,  and  about  Thirty  Three  Miles  Stage,  before 
Six  at  Night.  AsXoon  as  I  came  in,  a  )oung  Man  wel- 
comed me  into  America^  who,  upon  Enquiry,  I  found 
had  been  one  of  my  Parifhioners  at  Savannah  ;  this  gave 
jTie  an  immediate  Opportunity  of  falling  into  Religious 
Converfation,  and  afterwards  i  went,  as  my  ufual  Cultom 
is,  among  the  Negroes  belonging  to  the  Houfe.  One  Man 
was  fick  in  Bed,  and  Two  of  his  Children  faid  their 
Prayers  after  me  very  well.  This  more  and  more  con  - 
vinces  me,  that  the  Negroe  Children,  if  early  brought  up- 
in  the  Nurture  and  Admonition  of  the  Lord,  would  make 
as  great  a  Proficiency  as  any  white  People's  Children  what- 
foever. — I  do  not  defpair  (if  God  fpares  my  Life)  to  fee  a 
School  of  voung  Negroes  fniging  the  Praifcs  of  Him  that 
made  them  in  a  Pfalm  of  Thankfgiving  ! — Lord,  thou  haft 
put  into  my  Heart  dL  good  Dejign  to  educate  them,  I  doubt 
not  but  thou  wilt  enable  me  to  bring  It  to  good  Effect ! — 
All  that  truly  love  thy  Name  I  am  confident  will  fay  . 
A/ncn  ! 

NEWTOir  N  on  Cape  Fear  River. 

Friday^  Dcce?nhcr  28.  Had  a  very  blufterous  Night, 
;uk1  the  Weather  continued  rainy  moft  Part  of  the  Day. — 
However,  the  Lord  flrengthen'd  us  to  go  on  our  Way. 
After  about  Fifteen  Miles  Ride,  we  comfortably  refrcfhed 
hvth  ourll'lvcb  and  Bcalts  at  a  poor  Widow'ii   Ordinary, 

who 


at  NORTH-CAROLINA.         75 

who  a  few  Days  agone  had  buried  her  Husban'd,  which 
made  her  more  thankful,  and  better  prepared  for  Religious 
Difcourfe. — After  Dinner  we  had  a  pleafant  Ride  to  Neiv- 
iown  on  Cape  Fear  River,  near  Eighteen  Miles  from  the 
Place  where  we  baited. — It  is  a  little  but  thriving  Place 
for  Trade,  and  we  rejoiced  greatly  that  the  Lord  had 
brought  us  fo  far  pn  our  Journey,  and  had  not  fufFer'd  us 
to  go  out  of  our  "VVay  thro'  fo  many  almoft  uninhabited 
Woods,  nor  fo  much  as  to  hurt  our  Feet  againft  a  Stone  ! 
The  little  wet  Weather  to  Day  made  our  Inns  more  ac- 
ceptable, and  we  couU  not  help  refle£iing  that  it  is  in  our 
Spiritual  as  in  our  Temporal  Journeys  ;  fometimes  the 
Sun  of  Righteoufnefs  arifes  with  great  Lultre  upon  our 
Hearts,  fometimes  a  Cloud  overfliadows  us,  and  Storms 
Surround  us.  Lord  enable  us  thro'  all  continually  to  prefs 
forwards^  and  fuffer  us  not  to  grow  tveary  and  faint  in  our 
Minds  ;  for  we  know  that  one  Moment  of  the  Beatifick  Vi- 
fion  will  make  amends  for  all  f 

Saturday^  December  ig.  Thought  proper  to  reft  to 
Day  for  the  Eafe  of  our  Beafts.  Had  another  Opportu- 
nity of  writing  fome  Letters  to  England.  Dined  with 
one  Mr.  Murray  the  Naval  Officer,  who  gave  us  an  In- 
vitation laft  Night  at  his  Houfe,  and  fpent  the  Remainder 
of  the  Day  in  writing  down  fome  Things  tliat  lay  upon 
my  Heart.  San£lify  thein^  O  Lord^  to  the  promoting  thy 
Glory,   and  the  Good  of  Mankind  I 

Sunday,  December  30.  Wrote  fome  more  Letters  to 
my  Friends  at  England.  Read  Prayers,  and  preached, 
both  Morning  and  Evening  in  the  Court-Houfe,  to  as 
many  as  could  be  expected  at  fo  fhort  a  Warning. — There 
being  many  of  the  Scotch  amongft  the  Congregation,  who 
lately  canie  over  to  fettle  in  North  Carolina,  I  was  led 
out  in  the  Afternoon  to  make  a  particular  Application  to 
them,  and  to  remind  them  of  the  Neceffity  of  living  holy- 
Lives,  that  fo  they  might  prove  a  Bleffing  to  the  Province, 
and  give  Proof  of  their  Zeal  for  thofe  Truths  which  I  had 
been  delivering,  and  which  they  had  heard  preached  to 
them  with  great  Purity  and  Clearnefsin  their  native  Coun- 
try.— After  Service,  a  Gentleman  inform'd  me  that  1^- 
vcral  wereaftedcd  j  two  other  Gentlemen  came  and  prefs'd 
K  2  me 


^6        Mr.  W  H  I  T  E  F I E  L  D'i  Joiimal 

mc  to  (lay  longer,  but  being  intent  on  my  Journey,  about 
Five  in  the  Evening  I  and  my  Friends  paiTed  the  Ferry, 
about  Three  Miles  diftant,  and  lay  comfortably  at  the 
Houfe  of  the  High  Sheriff  of  tiie  County — Here  we  met 
with  fome  other  Perfons,  whom  I  pray'd  with,  and  in- 
ftrucfled  to  the  beft  of  my  Power,  for  which  they  fecm'J 
thankful. — Much  Good  may  be  done  by  an  earnelt  and 
circumfpedl  endeavouring  alvv^ays  to  introduce  proper  Re- 
ligious Converfation.  Our  Lord  did  fo  wherever  he  was  j 
and  every  true  Minifler  of  Jesus  Christ  ought  to  live 
fo  examplarily,  that  wherefoever  he  comes  People  fhould 
expe£l  fome  edifying  Difcourfe  immediately  to  drop  from 
his  Mouth.  Every  Chriftia^  ought  to  bring  Light  and 
Heat  with  him,  like  the  Sun,  wl)itherfoever  he  comes. — 
Wicked  Men  will  lead  us  an  Example  of  Boldnefs. 

They  can  brave  tF  eternal  Laws^ 
Zealous  in  their  M.ajler''s  Caufsy 
J  ESU,  Jlmll  thy  Servants  be 
Lejs  refolvd,  or  bold  for  thee  ? 

Monday^  December  "^l.  Set  out  early,  and  met  with 
more  Perils  by  Land  than  we  have  been  expofed  to  yet.— 
It  having  rained  almoft  the  whole  Night,  the  Swamps 
and  Creeks  which  lay  in  the  Way  were  filled  with  Water; 
and  the  Bridges  being  out  of  Repair,  render'd  Travelling 
very  dangerous.  In  one  Place  we  were  obliged  to  fwim 
our  Horfes ;  in  many  the  Waters  were  very  high,  and 
were  not  to  be  pafs'd  without  much  Difficulty,  and  I  was 
of  fo  little  Faith  as  to  be  fometimcs  rather  afraid  !  l^ut 
God  fent  us  two  good  Guides,  by  whofe  Aflifl-ance  we  were 
carried  thro'  all,  and  brought  at  Night  to  a  little  Houfe, 
where  with  Pleafure  we  reflected  on  the  Dangers  and  De- 
liverances of  the  Day,  and  reminded  one  another  of  the 
luifpeakable  Satisfaction  we  might  expeCl  hereafter  upon  a 
View  of  thofe  many  CrofTe?,  Difficulties,  and  Tempta- 
tions, which  we  mufl  necefTarily  endure  whilfl  in  our  Pil- 
grimage here.  Oh  that  we  may  learn  to  endure  any  Pain^ 
d^pife  any  Shamc^  fubmit  to  any  Difficidtics,  from  a  be- 
lieving Profpcci  of  tvhat  we  Jhall  hereafter  enjoy.,  when 
raifcd  to   Glory  at  the  Right  Hand  of  God  our  Saviour  ! 

SOUTH- 


at  SOUTH-CAROLINA         yy 


SOUTH-CAROLINA, 

Tuefday,  January  I.  Rode  about  Ten  Miles,  and  to 
my  great  Comfort,  where  we  baited,  met  with  one  who 
I  had  great  Reafon  to  believe  was  a  Child  of  God. — It 
fomewhac  grieved  me  that  I  could  flay  no  longer,  but  be- 
ing in  Hafte,  we  pafs'd  over  a  half  Mile  Ferry. — About 
Sun-fet,  we  came  to  a  Tavern  lying  near  Five  Miles  with- 
in the  Province  of  5(j&.-//;-C^7ro//H^7.  Here  I  immediately- 
perceived  the  People  were  more  polite  than  thofe  we  gene- 
rally met  with,  buti  I  believe  the  People  of  the  Houfe  at 
firft  could  have  wifli'd  I  had  not  come  to  be  their  Giieft 
that  Night ;  for  it  being  New  Year's  Day,  feveral  of  the 
Neighbours  were  met  together,  in  order  to  divert  them- 
felves  by  dancing  Country  Dances. — By  Advice  of  my 
Friends,  I  went  in  amongft  them  whilft  a  Woman  was 
dancing  a  Jigg.  At  my  firft  Entrance  I  endeavour'd  to 
fliew  the  Folly  of  fuch  Entertainments,  and  to  convince 
her  how  well  plcafed  the  Devil  was  at  every  Step  fhe  took. 
For  fome  Time  (he  endeavour'd  to  out-brave  me;  neither 
the  Fidler  or  Ihe  defifted  ;  but  at  laft  (he  gave  over,  and 
the  Mufician  laid  afide  his  Inftrument.  It  would  have 
made  any  one  fmile  to  fee  how  the  reft  of  the  Company, 
one  by  one  attack'd  me,  and  brought,  as  they  thought. 
Arguments  to  fupport  their  Wantonnefs ;  but  Christ 
triumph'd  over  Satan. — They  were  all  put  to  Silence,  and 
were  for  fome  Time  fo  over-aw'd,  that  after  I  had  dif- 
courfed  with  them  on  the  Nature  of  Baptifm,  and 
the  Neceflity  of  being  born  again,  in  order  to  enjoy  the 
Kingdom  of  Heaven,  at  their  Entreaty,  I  baptized  one 
of  their  Children,  and  pray'd  afterwards  as  I  was  enabled, 
and  as  the  Circumftances  of  the  Companv  required. — 
Then  I  and  my  Companions  took  a  little  Refreftiment  ; 
but  the  Pi'ople  were  fo  bent  on  their  Pleafure,  that  not- 
withftanding  all  that  had  been  faid,  after  I  was  gone  to 
Bed,  I  heard  their  Mufick  and  Dancing,  which  made 
me  look  back  upon  my  own  paft  Follies  with  Shame  and 
Confiifion  of  p'ace;  for  fwch  a  one,  not  long  fmce,  was 
I  myfclf.  Lord,  for  thy  Mercies  Sake,  Jhevj  all  unhappy 
Formalijh  the  fame  Favour,  and  fuffer  them  not  to  go  on  in 
fuch  a  carnal  Security  till  they  lift  up  their  Eyes  In  Tor- 
ment I 


7^        Mr,  W  H I T  E  F I E  L  D V  Joumal 

ment  !  Draw  them,  Ob  draw  them  from  feeding  upon 
fitch  Husis  !  Let  them  know  -xhat  it  is  to  fcaft  upon  the 
fatted  Calf  even  the  Comforts  of  the  Blejed  Spirit ! 
Jmeny  Amen. 

Wednefday,  January  2.  Rofe  very  early,  pray'd,  fung 
a  Hymn,  and  gave  a  fharp  Reproof  to  the  Dancers ;  they 
were  very  attentive,  aiid  took  it  in  good  Part. — At  Break 
of  Day  we  mounted  our  Horfes,  and  I  think  never  had  a 
more  pleafant  Journey.  For  near  Twenty  Miles,  we 
Tode  over  a  beautiful  Bay  as  plain  as  a  Terras- Walk,  and 
as  we  pafTed  along  were  wonderfully  delighted  to  fee  the 
Porpoifes  taking  their  Faftime,  and  hear,  as  it  were  Shore 
refounding  to  Shore  the  Praifes  of  Him  who  hath  fet 
Bounds  to  the  Sea  that  it  cannot  pafs,  and  hath  faid, 
"  Here  (hall  your  proud  Waves  be  ftaid  !" — At  Night  we 
thought  to  call  at  a  Gentleman's  Houfe,  where  wc  had 
been  recommended,  about  Forty  Miles  diflant  from  our 
laft  Night's  Lodging,  but  the  Moon  being  totally  eclipfed, 
we  milled  the  Path  that  turned  out  of  the  Road;  and 
then  thought  it  moil  advifable,  as  we  were  in  the  maia 
Road,  to  go  on  our  Way,  trufting  to  the  Almighty  to 
ftrengthen  both  our  Beads  and  us.  We  had  not  gone  far 
but  we  faw  a  Light ;  Two  of  my  Friends  went  up  to  it, 
and  faw  a  Hutt  full  of  Negroes;  they  enquired  after  the 
Gentleman's  Howfe  whither  we  were  directed,  but  the 
Negroes  feemed  furprized,  and  faid  they  knew  no  fuch 
Man,  and  that  they  were  but  new  Comers.  From  thefe 
Circumflanccs  one  of  my  Friends  inferr'd,  that  thefe  Ne- 
groes might  be  fome  of  thofe  who  lately  had  made  an  In- 
furreftion  in  the  Province,  and  vv^re  run  awav  from  their 
Maflers.  When  he  rcturn'd,  we  were  all  of  his  Mind, 
and  therefore  thought  it  befl:  to  mend  our  Pace.  Soon  af- 
ter we  faw  another  great  Fire  near  the  Road  Side,  but 
imagining  there  was  another  Neft  of  fuch  Negroes,  we 
made  a  Circuit  into  the  Woods,  and  one  of  my  Friends 
*t  a  Difbnce  obfervcd  them  dancing  round  the  Fire.  The 
Moon  filming  bright,  we  foon  found  our  Way  into  the 
great  Road  again  ;  and  after  we  had  gone  about  a  Dozen 
Miles,  expecting  to  find  Negroes  in  every  Place,  we  came 
to  a  great  Plantation,  the  Mailer  of  which,  to  our  great 
CVnifo.rt,    gave  us  Lodging,    and  our  Beafls  Provender. 

Upon 


af  SOUTH-CAROLINA       79 

Upon  our  relating  the  Circumftances  of  our  Travels,  he 
gave  us  Satisfaction  about  the  Negroes,  inform'd  us  whofe 
they  were,  and  upon  what  Occafion  they  were  in  thofe 
Places  in  which  we  found  them.  This  afforded  us  much 
Comfort,  after  we  had  rode  near  Threefcore  Miles,  and 
as  we  thought,  in  great  Perils  of  our  Lives.  BleJJed  b& 
thy  Name,  O  Lord,  for  this,  and  all  other  thy  Mercies^ 
thro' JESUS  CHRIST! 

Thurfday,  January  3.  Had  a  hofpital  BrcJtkfaft  fet 
before  us  by  the  Gentleman  who  laft  Night  received  us 
into  his  Houfe. — Set  out  late  in  the  Morning,  pafled  over 
a  Three  Mile  Ferry  near  George  Toivn,  and  for  the  Eafe 
of  our  Beafts,  rode  not  above  Nineteen  Miles  the  whole. 
Day.  A  good  Man,  (d^ys  Solomon,  b  merciful  tohis  Beajis: 
How  they  will  anfwer  it  in  the  Great  Day,  who  abufe 
the  inferior  Creatures  as  the'  they  had  a  Licenfe  to  ufe 
them  as  they  pleafed,  I  know  not ;  fure  I  am,  that  for 
^Ntxy  fuch  Abufe  God  will  bring  them  into  Judgment. 

Friday,  January  4.  Lay  at  a  little  Houfe  on  Santa 
River,  where  I  met  with  a  Soldier,  formerly  one  of  my 
Catechumens,  who  had  been  difcharged,  but  retained  a 
grateful  Senfe  of  the  Inftru<Stions  tint  iiad  been  given  him. 
PalTed  over  Two  fernes  in  the  Morning,  baited  at  Din- 
ner Time,  after  we  had  rode  about  i^ightetn  xVIiks,  and 
were  then  obliged  to  ride  Twenty  Five  Miles  further, 
there  being  no  proper  P'ace  to  Iby  at  b)  the  V^ay.  About 
Eight  in  the  Kveiang,  we  came  to  a  Tavern,  within 
Five  Miles  frcni  Chfi'les  T^zun,  where  we  were  comfort- 
ably refrefu'd  wkh  I  od  convenient  for  us.  We  had  Fa- 
mily Praver,  and  therein  endeavour'd  to  exprefs  cur 
Thankfuincfs  to  God  for  thus  cauf'ig  u^  to  renew  our 
Streiigth,  and  bringing  us  fonear  a  Place  .vhere  we  would 
be  '  Oh  that  our  Hearts  may  be  excited  more  and  more  to 
prcafe  the  i^ord  for  theje  and  all  other  Mercies  which  he 
daily  pours  down  on  us,  the  unworthicfl  of  thi  Sons  of 
Men  ! 

CHARLES     TOWN, 

Saturday,  January  k,.  Left  our  Lodging  before  Day- 
Lght,    and  reached  CharUi  Town^    after  we  had  palled 

over 


So       Mr.  W  H I  T  E  F  I  E  L  D*^  Jonmal 

over  a  three  Mile  Ferry  about  ten  in  the  Morning. 
Went  to  the  Houfe  of  one  Mr.  L — re^  where  we  dined, 
and  were  entertained  with  great  Civility.  In  the  After- 
noon feveral  Gentlemen  of  the  Town  were  fo  kind  as  to 
come  and  fee  me,  and  exprefTed  a  great  Willingnefs  to 
hear  me  preach ;  Letters  and  Papers  were  alfo  brought 
me  from  New-York^  informing  me  how  mightily  the 
Word  of  God  grew  and  prevailed  there. — The  Accounts 
in  the  Englijh  Papers  of  the  War  being  daily  carried  on 
there  between  Chriji  and  Belial^  afforded  us  trefli  Matter 
for  praifmg  that  God,  who  we  hoped  would,  in  his  King- 
dom of  Grace,  bring  mighty  Things  to  pafs,  whilft  the 
World  was  bufied  in  Wars  and  Rumours  of  Wars. — 
In  the  Evening  I  wrote  fome  Letters  to  my  Englijh  and 
New-York  Friends,  p'elt  fuch  Comfort  within  niyfelf  as 
the  World  cannot  give,  and  verified  what  the  Pfalmifl 
fays,  Thcyfoall  be  in  perfc^i  Peace  whofe  Mindi  are  Jlaid 
en  thee! —  Oh  that  all  were  Partakers  of  It  I 

Sunday,  January  6.  Went  to  publick  Service  in  the 
Morning,  but  did  not  preach,  bccaufc  the  Curate  had  not 
a  Commiffion  to  lend  the  Pulpit,  unlefs  Mr.  G—n  (then 
out  of  Town)  had  been  prefent.  However,  mofl  of  the 
Town  being  very  eager  to  hear  me,  in  the  Afternoon  I 
preached  in  one  of  theDillenting  Meeting-houfes,  but  was 
grieved  to  find  fo  little  Concern  in  the  Congregation, 
after  the  Sermon  was  over.  The  Auditory  was  large,  but 
very  polite  ;  and  I  queftion  whether  the  Court  End  of  the 
Town  at  London  could  equal,  at  leaft  exceed  them  in  af- 
fc£led  Finery  and  Gaiety  of  DreG,  and  a  Deportment  ill- 
becoming  Perfons  who  have  had  fuch  Divine  Judgments 
lately  fcnt  abroad  amongft  them. —  I  reminded  ihein  of  it 
in  my  Sermon  ;  but  I  thought  at  firft  I  feemed  to  them  as 
one  that  mocked.  This  made  me  more  importunate  in 
kcret  Prayer,  and  I  hoped  God  would  let  me  fee  that  he 
intended  to  vilit  the  Inliabitants  with  Mercy  as  well  as 
judgments;  for  nothing  is  a  greater  Sign  of  a  People's 
being  hardened  than  their  continuing  unreformed  under 
Divine  Vifitations:  Thus  it  was  with  P/;^/W;  and  the 
Egyptians.  Lord^  for  thy  Mercys  Sake,  let  it  not  be  the 
Cafe  of  this  People  !     Amen,  Lcrd  Jtfusy  Amen. 


at  SOUTH^CAROLINA,       8i 

Motiiiayi  January  7.  Finding  the  Inhabitants  were  de- 
firous  to  hear  me  a  fccond  Time,  about  eleven  in  the 
Morning  I  preached  in  the  French  Churchy  and  bleffed  be 
God,  faw  a  glorious  Alteration  in  the  Audience,  which 
was  fo  great  that  many  ftood  without  the  Door,  and  I 
felt  much  more  Freedom  in  my  felf  than  I  did  Yefter- 
day.  Many  were  melted  into  Tears,  and  one  of  the 
Town  moft  remarkably  gay,  was  obferved  to  weep>  and 
inftead  of  the  People's  going  out  (as  they  did  Yefterday,  in 
a  light,  airy,  unthinking  Manner,  a  vifible  Concern  was 
in  moft  of  their  Faces,  as  tho'  they  could  not  refift  the 
Power  with  which  God  enabled  me  to  fpeak.  Not  unto 
me,  O  Lord,  not  unto  me,  but  unto  thy  Name  alone,  be  all 
the  Glory  ! —  After  Sermon,  I  and  my  Friends  dined  at  a 
Merchant's  in  Town  ;  and  as  I  was  paiiing  along,  a  Let- 
ter was  put  into  my  Hands,  wherein  were  thefe  Words. 
'  Remember  me  in  your  Prayers,  for  Chrift's  Sake,  who 

*  died  for  me  a  Sinner. —  I  appeal  to  you  for  Help  in  the 
'  Way  to  Salvation.  Pray  fail  me  not,  and  I  befeech 
'  you  to  pray  for  my  Soul  j  and  the  Lord  blefs  you,  and 

*  grant  you  may  win  many  Souls  to  God  by  your  fincere 
<  Preaching.'  Many  alfo  of  the  Inhabitants,  with  full 
Hearts,  entreated  me  to  give  them  one  more  Sermon, 
which  I  looked  upon  as  a  Call  from  Providence,  and  there- 
fore, though  I  was  ready  for  Departure,  and  juft  about  to 
take  Boat,  yet  I  thought  it  my  Duty  to  comply  with  the 
People's  Requeft,  and  to  put  ofF  my  Journey  till  the  Mor- 
row. Notice  was  immediately  given,  and  in  about  half 
an  Hour  a  large  Congregation  was  affembled  in  the  Meet- 
ing-houfe,  where  I  preached  Yefterday,  becaufj  it  was  the 
largeft  Place.  God  ftrengthcned  me  to  fpeak,  I  truft  as 
I  ought  to  fpeak.  In  the  Evening  I  fupped  at  another 
Merchant's  Houfe,  where  I  had  an  Opportunity,  for  near 
two  Hours,  to  converfe  of  the  Things  of  God  with  a  large 
Company,  and  afterwards  retired  to  my  Lodgings,  full 
of  Joy  at  the  Profpe<£l  of  having  a  good  Work  begun  in 
that  Place.  It  grieves  me  to  fee  People  humane,  hofpi- 
table,  willing  to  oblige,  and  every  Way  accompliflied, 
excepting  that  they  are  yet  ignorant  of  the  one  Thing  need- 
ful.—  Lord,  fend  forth  thy  Servants,  let  there  be  now  a 
great  Cry  madgy  Behold  the  Bridegroom  comcth,  and  incline 

L  all 


82      '  Mr.  W H  r T  E  F 1 E L  dV  yournal 

all  formal  Profcffors,  all  polite  and  foolifh  Virgins,  to 
trhn  their  Lamps y  that  they  may  be  ready  to  go  forth  to 
meet  thee  ! 

Beaufort  in  Port-Royal. 

Tucfday^  Janvary  8.  Rofe  a  good  while  before  Day, 
eft  our  Horfes  in  Charles-Town^  and  fet  out  for  Georgia 
n  an  open  Canoe  (having  five  Negroes  to  row  and  fteer 
us)  and  God  was  pleafed  to  give  us,  for  the  moft  part,  fair 
Weather.  The  poor  Slaves  were  very  civil,  diligent  and 
laborious. —  We  lay  one  Night  on  the  Water,  and  about 
five  on  Wednejday  Evening  arrived  at  Beaufort  in  Port- 
Royal  (too  Miles  from  Charles-Town)  within  the  Pro- 
vince of  South  Carolina,  We  drank  a  little  Tea  at  our 
Inn,  and  then  waited  upon  the  Reverend  Mr.  Jonesy  the 
Minifter  of  the  Place,  who  receiv'd  us  with  great  undif- 
fembled  Civility,  and  was  very  defirous  I  (hould  take  a 
Bed  at  his  Houfe,  as  I  did  when  I  p::(s'd  through  the 
place  after  I  left  Georgia  lail.  But  intending  to  fet  out 
by  two  in  the  Morning,  we  thought  it  beft  to  lye  at  our 
Inn  ;  and  therefore,  after  Supper,  and  a  little  friendly 
Converfation,  we  took  our  Leave,  rejoicing  (as  we  always 
do  on  fuch  Occafions)  that  we  had  met  with  another 
Clergyman  who  feemed  to  have  the  Fear  of  God  before  his 
Eves !  Lordy  ijicreafe  the  Number  of  them  for  thy  dear 
Son's  Sake  I     Amen,  Amen. 

JVedyiefday^  January  c).  The  Wind  being  very  high, 
and  theaby' failing  rendered  impra»51:icable  ;  I  and  my 
Friends  flald  at  Beaufort  :x\\  the  Morning,  dined,  at  his  In- 
vitatic  n,  with  kind  Mr.  Jones^  and  afterwards,  the  Wea- 
ther biing  ;air,  and  the  Tide  ferving,  we  took  Boat,  and 
refrefhei  our  Hives  at  a  Plantation  in  the  Way.  In  the 
Nio^ht,  we  mndc  a  Fire  on  the  Shore,  and  flept  round  it  for 
about  four  Hours;  a  little  after  Midnight  v/e  prayed  with 
the  Negroes,  took  Boat  again,  and  reached  iS'^zz;^;;^.^/' be- 
fore Noon  the  next  Day. —  Had  a  joyful  Meeting  with  my 
dear  Friends,  who  I  found  had  been  arrived  three  Weeks, 
and  aifo  was  much  refrefhcd  with  a  moft  comfortable 
Packet  of  Letters  from  England,  Nezv-Tcrk^  he.  Blef- 
fed  be  God,  the  Work  of  our  dear  Emanuel  is  every- 
where 


at  GEORGIA.  .    83 

where  carrying  on.  Ere  long  I  expeft  that  mighty  Things 
will  be  brought  to  pafs.  Oh  that  the  Lord  may  fhengthen 
me  to  make  full  Proof  of  my  Minijlry  in  this  Place^  to  the 
Glory  of  his  great  Name,  and  the  Good  of  his  dear 
Church  ! 

Here  I  would  ftop,  but  I,  think  it  may  not  be  amifs  to 
put  down  fome  few  Remarks  I  have  made  on  the  State  of 
Keligion  in  thofe  Provinces,  which  I  have  lately  palled 
through. — And  here  I  cannot  but  give  Pafilvania  the 
Preference.  — For  to  me  it  feems  to  be  the  Gaixlen  of  Ame- 
rica.— Their  Oxen  are  firong  to  labour.,  and  there  feems 
to  be  no  complaining  in  their  Streets.  What  :s  belt  of  all, 
I  believe  they  have  the  Lord  for  their  God.  This  I  infer 
from  their  having  fo  many  faithful  Minifters  fent  forth  a- 
mongft  them  ;  and  except  Northampton  in  New-England^ 
the  Work  of  Converfion  has  not  been  carried  on  with  fo 
much  Power  in  any  Parts  of  America^  that  I  can  hear  of, 
as  under  the  Miniftry  of  Mefiieurs  Tennents.  Crcjs,  and 
the  other  Labourers  before  mention'd.  The  Conititution 
is  far  from  being  arbitrary  j  the  Soil  is  good,  the  Land 
exceeding  fruitful,  and  there  is  a  greater  Equality  between 
the  Poor  and  Rich  than  perhaps  can  be  found  in  any 
Place  of  the  known  World.  And,  for  my  Part,  I  like 
it  fo  well,  that,  God  v/illing,  1  purpofe  taking  up  fome 
Land  to  ere<5t  a  School  for  Negroes,  and  fettle  fome  of  my 
Englifi)  Friends,  whofe  Hearts  God  (hall  fcir  up,  or  whom 
the  Fury  of  their  Enemies  fhall  oblige  to  depart  from  their 
native  Country.  Philadelphia  is  one  of  the  moft  regular 
planned  Towns  I  ever  law.  Above  feventy  new  Houfes 
were  built  in  it  the  laft'Year,  and  it  is  likely  to  increafe 
in  Inhabitants  every  Day.  It  is  rightly  called  Philadel- 
phia., i.  e.  Brotherly  Love. — For  by  the  Charter  all  are 
permitted  to  worfliip  God  th^ir  own  Way,  without  being 
branded  as  Schifmaticks,  -DilTenters,  or  Diilurbers  of  tiie 
eilablilhcd  Conftitution. — The  Qi_iakers  have  the  Pre-emi- 
nence in  the  Government. — The  AiTenrtbly,  as  I  v/as 
told,  is  made  up  of  them,  except  aboutTour,  which  pre- 
vents all  Preparations  for  marti^ii  Defence,  it  being  one  of 
their  Principles  not  to  light  at  all.  IMuch  of  the  Simplici- 
ty of  Drefs  and  Manners  which  may  be  obferved  among 
the  Inhabitants,  I  think  is  in  a  great  Meafure  owing  to 
L  2  them. 


84        Mr,  W  H  I  T  E  F  I  E  L  D'i  Joiimal 

them.      And  I  faw  lefs  of  the  Pride  of  Life  in  Penfihama 
than  elfewhere.     But  it    has   happened   to  them  as  it  will 
to  all  other  religious  Societies  whatfoever,  when  they  flou- 
rifii  and  have  the  Upper-hand.     I  mean,  many  for  Profit's 
Sake  have  been  known   to  diflemble  with  them.     I   fear 
Numbers  amongft  them,  as  amongft  us,  can  give  no  o- 
ther  Reafon  why  they  are  Qi^iakers,  than  that  their  Fa- 
thers were  fo  before  them. —  1  fay  this,  becaufe  I  find  but 
little  of  a  Divine  Power  ftirring  amongft  thern  ;  and  moft 
of  them  are  too  ftiff  and  rigid  about  external  Things,  as  I 
was  credibly  informed.    One  of  their  own  Preachers  warn- 
ed them  lately  of  their  Backfliding,  and  told  them,   with- 
out a    Reformation,   God  would  remove  the  Candleftick 
from  them,  and  not   work  by  their  Hands  any  more. — 
In  the  City  of  Philadelphia  they  have  two  large  Aieeting- 
houfes  ;  they  affemble  frequently  together,  and,  all  Things 
Qonfidered,  are  the  moft  regular  Society  of  Men  I  have 
(een  or   heard  of.     Befides    this,  there    is  a  Baptift  and 
Presbyterian  Meeting.     I  had  the  Pleafure    of  converfmg 
with  the  Miniftcrs  of  both,  and  found  there  were  fome  in 
their  Congregations,    particularly    in  that  of  the   Baptift, 
who  loved  the  Lord  Jefus  in  Sincerity.     The   Church  of 
England  is  but  at  a  low  Ebb   in   the  Province  in  general, 
and  in   Philadelphia  in  paiticular. —  In  all  the    Places  I 
paflcd  through,  the  Presbyterians  and    Qi^akers  had  larger 
Congregations   than  any   of  our  Milfionaries. —  And  we 
may  guefs  how  the  Love  of  many  of  the  Church  ot  Etig- 
land  in  Philadelphia    muft  have  waxed  cold,  becaufe  the 
Church,  which  has  been   begun,    if  I  miftake   not,  fome 
Years  ago,  is  far  from  being   linifhed  witl.in  ;   l^iowever, 
jiiany  of  late  have  been  convinced  what  true  Chriftianity 
IS  ;  and  I  hope  a  Church  of  Jcfus  Chrift  will  ere  long  be 
fele^led  out  of  tlie  Members  of   our  own  Communion. 
The  little  Time  I   was  at  Ncw-Ycrk   would  not  permit 
nie  to  make  (o  many  Obiervaiions  of  the  Situation  of  Af- 
fairs of  Religion  in  tlie  Province  as  otherwife  I  might  have 
clone. — A  great  Complaint  was  made  to  me  by  fume  of 
the  moft  fcrious  Inhabitants  of  ir,  that  it  was  a  very  fecure 
Place,  and  that  a  Work  of  God  had  never  been  carried  on 
in  it,  fince  its  firft  Settlement. — Tlie  Heads  of  the  C;:iurch 
pf  England  feem'd  rcfolvcd  to  {hut  out  the  Kingdiim   of 
God  from  amongft  thcm.—^But  our  Lord  Jcfus  has  been 

pleas'd 


at  GEORGIA  85 

pleasM  to  get  himfelf  the  Vidory  ;  and  tho'  I  was  moftly 
oppofed  in  Neiu-Tork,  yet,  if  I  may  judge  of  what  I  faw 
myfelf,  and  have  heard  fince  my  Departure,  as  much,  if 
not  more  good  has  been  done  there,  than  in  any  other 
Place,  where  I  have  been  for  fo  fhort  a  T'ime.  At  Mary- 
land Religion  feems  to  be  at  a  very  low  Ebb.  Ther?  are 
Roman  Catholicks  in  fome  Parts,  four  Congre.q;ations  of 
Presbyterians,  and  a  few  Quakers  ;  but  far  the  greateft 
Part  call  themfelves  of  the  Church  of  England ^  which 
might  no  doubt  greatly  flourifii  were  their  Minifters  found 
faithful.  But  the  Government,  1  fear,  fpoils  them  by 
giving  them  too  much  Tobacco. —  For  fome,  I  hear, 
have  30000,  others  50000,  others  60000  Pounds  of  To- 
bacco per  Annum.  It  is  gathered  by  the  High  Sheriff  of 
the  County,  and  every  Perfon  taxable  is  obliged  to  pay 
40  Pound  of  Tobacco  yearly  to  the  Minifters,  though 
great  Numbers  never  hear  or  fee  them.*—  In  Virginia 
Matters  are  not  quite  fo  bad.  The  Minifters  Stipends  are 
not  fo  large  ;  the  Commiffary  feems  to  have  more  Power, 
and  to  exercife  more  Difcipline. —  But  almoft  all  are  quite 
fettled  upon  their  Lees,  and  I  could  not  hear  of  any  true 
vital  Piety  fubfifting  in  that  Province. —  In  Maryland  I 
was  told  of  one  Mr.  Colchatch^  a  godly  Minifter,  who 
died  five  Years  ago.  And  I  heard  of  another  Layman  in 
Virginia  who  has  been  dead  25  Years,  that  did  make  Re- 
ligion his  chief  Bufinefs.  In  Virginia  are  no  Diftenters 
from  the  eftabliftied  Church,  except  one  Meeting  or  two 
of  Quakers.  The  Importation  of  fo  many  Negroes  and 
Conviifts  is  one  great  Reafon  why  fo  little  Religion  is  to  be 
feen. —  But  the  main  Caufe  of  Irreligion  both  in  Virginia  . 
2nd  Alary  la  jzd  I  take  to  be  their  not  incorporating  into 
Towns:  For  hereby  People  living  at  a  Diftance  from  the 
Church,  are  apt  to  make  every  little  Thing  ferve  as  an 
Excufe  to  ke.p  them  from  publick  WorOnip.  Religious 
Societies  cannot  well  be  fettled,  and  wicked  Men  may 
more  eafily  revel  and  get  drunk  witliout  Controul.  Mi- 
nifters, had  they  a  Will,  cannot  vifit  from  Houfe  toHoufe. 
And  what  is  as  bad  as  any  Thing,  Sciiools  for  the  Edu- 
cation ot  Ciiildren  cannot  be  fo  conveniently  erciffed  when 
the  Houfes  are  fo  far  feparate.  The  greateft  Probability 
0}  doing  Good  in  Virginia  is  among  the  Scots-IriJJ)^  who 
have  lately  fettled  in  the  Mountainous  Parts  of  tl  ac  Pro- 
vince. 


§6        Mr,VJiiiT-ETii:hjys  Journal 

vince.  They  raife  little  or  no  Tobacco,  but  Things 
that  are  ufeful  for  common  Life. — And  I  hear  the  Gover- 
nor has  given  Leave  for  a  Minifter  of  their  own  Way  of 
Thinking  to  come  whenever  he  can  be  procured,  \n  North' 
Carolina  there's  fcarce  fo  much  as  the  Form  of  Religion. 
There  are  two  CAu/ches  begun  for  fome  Time,  but  nei- 
ther finifti'd.  There  are  feveral  Dancing  Mafters,  but 
fcarce  one  regularly  fettled  Minifter ;  fo  that  in  molt 
places  they  have  Readers,  who  read  a  Sermon  every  Sunday 
to  the  People,  for  which  they  pay  five  Shillings  a  Quarter 
of  their  Currency,  which  is  ten  Shillings  for  one  Sterling. 
However,  the  Governor,  I  hear,  has  made  Propofals  to 
the  Society  for  propagating  the  Gofpel  in  Foreign  Parts, 
to  fend  Miffionaries.  But  I  fhould  rather  that  People  had 
no  Minifter  than  fuch  as  are  generally  fent  over.  And  I 
cannot  fee  the  Charity  of  contributing  towards  fending  out 
Miffionaries,  unlefs  greater  Care  be  taken  in  the  Choice  of 
thofe  that  are  fent. — For  it  is  notorious  the  generality  of 
them  walk  diredly  contrary  to  the  Gofpel  of  our  Lord 
Jefus  Chrift.  All  the  Accounts  moft  of  them  have  given 
for  fome  Time  is,  that  they  have  baptized  fo  many,  and 
that  fo  many  receiv'd  the  Sacrament.  And,  upon  the 
whole,  if  it  be  asked  why  there  is  fo  little  Religion  in  the 
Church  oi England?  It  may  be  anfwered,  the  Miffio- 
naries, for  the  moft  Part,  lead  very  bad  Examples.  I 
think  there  was  a  vifible  Difference  after  we  had  been 
preaching  amongft  them.  In  South-Carolina  they  have 
many  Minift-rs,  both  of  our  own  and  other  Perfuafions ; 
but  I  hear  of  no  ftirring  among  the  dry  Bones. — Mr. 
Garden^  the  prefent  Commiffary,  is  ftri(Sl  in  the  Outward 
Difcipline  of  the  Church.  The  Clergy  have  an  annual 
Meetmg,  and  moft  of  them,  I  believe,  are  kept  from 
open  Immortalities.  And  now  I  am  come  to  Georgia 
what  fhall  I  fay  ?  Many  of  the  Inhabitants  have  left  it 
fince  we  were  here  laft ;  but  ftill  I  hope  Bleffings  are  yet 
in  Referve.  Oh  that  all  who  remain  would  acquaitit  them" 
felves  with  God,  and  be  at  Peace  %u'th  him  ;  then  would 
they  be  more  than  Conquerors  over  all  their  Enemies. 

Thus  have  I  put  down  a  few  Thoughts  that  have  oc- 
curred to  my  Mind.  May  God  enlighten  me  where  I  am 
in  the  Dark,  CorreiJ  'aie  wherever  I  am  ivrong,  and  bUfs 

this 


at  GEORGIA.  Sy 

this  further  Account  of  his  Dealings  with  me  to  the  Con- 
vision  of  Gain-fay ers^  the  Comfort  of  Saints^  and  to  the 
Edification  of  all  that  jhall  read  it,  Evenfo  Lord  Jefus, 
Amen  and  Amen. 

I  cannot  exprefs  my  Defire  for  the  advancing  of  our  dear 
Lord's  Kingdom,  both  in  the  Hearts  of  my  Friends  and 
all  Mankind,  better  than  in  the  Hymn  altered  from  Dr. 
More  by  one  of  the  Reverend  Mr.  Wefleys, 

iJVhen  CHRIST  had  left  his  Flock  below. 
The  Lofs  his  faithful  Flock  deplor'd: 
Him  in  the  Flejh  no  more  they  know. 
And  languijhfor  their  abfent  Lord, 

Z.N'ot  long— -For  He  gone  up  on  high. 

Gifts  to  receive f  aud  claim  his  Crown^ 
Behold  them  forro%ving^  from  his  Sky, 
And  poured  the  Mighty  Blcjfing  down. 

^.He,  for  the  Prefence  of  his  Flejh, 

The  Spirif  s  fcven-fold  Gifts  imparts^ 
And  living  Streams  their  Souls  refrefh. 
And  Jcy  Diviiie  o^crfozvs  their  Hearts, 

J^  While  all  infweet  Devotion  joined. 
Humbly  to  wait  for  GOD  retire. 
The  prc?jiis\i  Grace  in  rufning  IVind 
Defends,  and  cloven  Tongues  of  Fire, 

$,GOD's  mighty  Spirit  f  lis  the  Dome, 
The  feeble  Dome  beneath  Him  faook. 
Trembled  the  Crozvd  to  feel  him  come. 
Scon  as  the  So7is  of  Thunder  f poke. 

b.Father!  if  jujlly  fill  we  claim 

To  Us,  and  Ours,  the  Promife  made. 
To  Vs  be  gracioufy  the  fame. 

And  crown  vjith  Living  Fire  our  Head. 

'^.Our  Claim  ad?;2it,  and  from  above. 
Of  HoUnefs  the  Spirit  jhow'r. 
Of  wife  Dijcernment,  humble  Love^ 
And  Zeal,  and  Unity  ^  and  Pow'r. 

%.Th^ 


8  8      Mf\  White  field's  JoiimaL 

Z.The  Spirit  of  convincing  Speech, 
Of  PcrvSr  dcmonjirative  impart. 
Such  as  7tiay  ev'ry  Confcience  reach. 
And  found  the  Unbelieving  Heart. 

<).*The  Spirit  of  refining  Fire: 

Searchi7ig  the  Imnoji  of  the  Mind, 
To  purge  all  fierce  and  foul  Defire, 
And  kindle  Life  more  pure  and  kind. 

lO.The  Sp'rit  of  Faith^  in  this  Thy  Day, 
To  break  the  Poiu'r  of  cancel  d  Sin, 
Tread  down  its  Strength,  overturn  its  Sway, 
JndjJill  the  Conqueft  more  than  win. 

11.  The  Spirit  breathe  of  Inward  Life, 

Which  in  our  Hearts  Thy  Laws  may  write ; 
Then  Grief  expires^  and  Pain,  and  Strife, 
'Tis  Nature  all,  and  all  Delight. 

12,0k  all  the  Earth  Thy  Spirit  fl^oiv'r. 
The  Earth  in  Righteoufnefs  renew ; 
Thy  Kingdom  come,  and  Hell's  o'crpow'r^ 
And  to  thy  Sceptre  all  fubdue. 

I^.Like  mighty  TFind,  or  Torrent  fierce. 
Let  it  Oppofcrs  all  6'er-run, 
And  ev'ry  Law  of  Sin  revcrfe. 

That  Faith  and  Love  jnay  make  all  one. 

l\.Yea,  let  Tloy  Sp'rit  in  cvWy  Place 
Its  Richer  Energy  declare. 
While  lovely  Te7npers,  Fruits  of  Grace, 
The  Kingdom  of  thy  CHRIST  prepare. 

IS.Grant  this,  0  Holy  GOD,  and  True! 
The  Anient  Seers  Thou  didfl  infpire : 
To  Us  perforjn  the  Promfe  due. 

Defend,  and  crown  Us  now  with  Fir(. 


FINIS. 


■      /c 


.4; 


''jO^ 


^m 


