^^" 


O' 


'/ 


//.J.//.y 


//.r//. 


ITTT 


A 


-'?^^I^-v-.-«L,,fz^  liry^^^ry 


0;<all     -3     tj^^ 


A 

CONTINUATION 

Of  the  Reverend 

Mr.  lVHn:EFIKLD\ 

JOURNAL, 

From  a  few  Days  after  his  Return  to 

GEORGIA 

To  his  Arrival  at 

FALMOUTH, 

on  the  nth  of  March,  1741. 

CONTAINING 

An  ACCOU  NT  of  the  Work  of  GOD  at 
Georgia,  Rhode-ljland,  New-Englandy  New- 
7or'k,  Pennjyhania  and  South -Carolina. 

The  Seventh  Journal. 
The    Second    Edition. 


LONDON: 

Printed  by  W.  St  RAH  AN  ;  and  SolJ  by  J.Robinson,  in 
Ludgate-Street  j  at  the  Tabernacle^  near  Upper  Moorfields ; 
and  by  Mr.  John  Sims,  near  Hoxton.     Mdccxliv. 

(  Price  One  Shilling. ) 

sec 


A 

CONTINUATION 

O    F 

Mr.  TFHITEFIELD's 

JOURNAL,   ^c. 

EBENEZER. 

tVednefday,  June  25. 

WE N T  on  Monday  to,  and  returned  this  Evening 
from  EbeJiezer,  which  I  have  feen  vi^ith  no  fmall 
Satisfadlion.  Surely  there  is  a  Difference,  even 
in  this  Life,  between  thofe  that  ferve  the  Lord, 
and  thofe  that  ferve  him  not.  All  other  Places  of  the  Colo- 
ny feem  to  be  like  Egypt,  where  was  Darknefs,  but  Ebenezer 
like  the  Land  of  Gojhen,  wherein  was  great  Light.  For  near 
four  Miles  did  I  walk  in  almoft  one  continued  Field,  with  a 
moft  plentiful  Crop  of  Corn,  Peafe,  Potatoes,  feV.  growing 
upon  it.  All  the  Producfl:  of  a  few  Months  Labour,  But 
God  gives  the  Labourers  a  peculiar  Blefllng.  They  are  u- 
nanimcus :.  The  Strong  help  the  Weak  :  And  all  feem  hear- 
ty for  the  Common  Good.  In  a  few  Years  the  Saltzburgkers, 
I  believe,  will  be  a  flourifliing  People.  Their  Land  is  good, 
and  lies  very  near  the  River.  They  already  provide  Food,  and 
ere  long  will  be  capable  of  providing  Raiment  for  themfelves. 
I  fliall  fend  them  up  Cotton,  Spinning-wheels,  and  a  Loom  to 
begin  a  Manufadory  tor  themfelves;  and  next  Year  they  hope 
their  ov/n  Land  will  produce  enough  Flax,  Cotton,  (sfc.  to 
carry  it  on.  I  had  fweet  Comrriunication  with  their  Mini- 
fters.  Our  Sifter  Orphan-Koufe  there  is  blefled  by  their 
Means.  And  Ytfierday  was  fet  apart  as  a  Day  of  Thanks- 
A  2  giving 


4  Mr,  Whitefield'^  Journal 

giving  for  fome  Afliftances  lately  fent  the  dear  Lambs  from 
Germany  and  Savannah.  ,  The  People  feem  very  grateful. 
They  willingly  received  me  into  their  clean,  but  little  Huts, 
and  feemed  proud  when  I  would  accept  of  any  Thing  from 
their  Hands.  BlefTed  be  God,  certainly  fome  Bleflings  are 
in  Referve  for  Georgia.  As  I  faid  formerly,  fo  I  fay  again, 
they  who  help  the  Saltxburghers  will  do  a  good  Work.  They 
want  AfTiftance.  Lgr4  raife  them  up  Benefaiiors  for  thy  in- 
finite Mercfs  Sake. 

SAVANNAH.  ; 

Friday^  'June  2"].  With  great  Comfort  received  Captain 
Grants  who  has  been  at  Cape  Fear  to  fetch  a  Load  of  Boards, 
and  returned  with  his  Sloop  in  fourteen  Days.  He  was  re- 
ceived very  couteoufly  by  the  head  Inhabitants  ;  and  many, 
he  tells  me,  virere  in  Expectation  of  feeing  me  at  North  Ca- 
rolina. Lord  fend  me  whitherfoever  and  whenfoevcr  it  Jhall 
feem  good  to  tiry  divine  Majejiy.     Amen  and  Amen. 

Monday.,  June  30.  For  thefe  ten  Days  latt  pafty  have  had 
frequent  Comraunications  from  above,  both  by  Way  of  Hu- 
miliation and  Exaltation.  God  has  often  been  pleafed,  fincc 
my  Return,  to  make  himfeif  known  in  our  Sancluary,  and 
has  caufed  a  mighty  Power  to  attend  the  Word  preached, 
both  in  Publick  and  Private.  I  have  been  much  refrefhed 
with  a  Packet  of  Letters  from  Englijb  Friends.  Providence 
feems  to  fmile  upon  the  Orphan-Houfe,  and  to  profper  every 
Thing  I  take  in  Hand.  A  wealthy,  moral,  civiliz'd  Plant- 
er of  South  Carolina  came  lately  to  fee  us,  and  God,  1  be- 
lieve, has  been  pleafed  to  give  him  a  true  Knowledge  of  him- 
feif, and  a  true  Faith  in  his  dear  Son  Jefus  Chiift.  His  Wife 
alfo  was  much  quickened,  having  been  wrought  upon  by 
God  fomct  me  laft  Winter.  She  was  a  great  Admirer  of 
Archbifhap,7V//c5//^«  ;  but  having  her  Eyes  now.  opened,  to 
difceru  fpifitunl  Things,  can  no  longer  take  up  with  fuch 
Husk;',  hi  ynly.  .for  carnal,  uuawakened,  unbelieving  Rea- 
fyners  to  t^X.  With  this  happy  Pair  (hearing  thdt  Charles,- 
town  Peo4)le  were. in  great  Expectations  of  feeing  mc  before 
I.  went, to  tbc .Northward,  and  that  God  had  becnr  pleafed  to: 
work  by  myJstQ.Miniftry  among  them)  I  and  a  dear  Friend' 
left  !S.<?v(.'/.;i///!j;i:his.Moriiing,  ia  a  large  Boat,  conver fed  with 
QiK  anpfbt.r  in  the' Way,  and  acrived  at  Bea;foriAi\Pmt- Royal 
ai)<)ut  Midiiigiiti  :Our. Friend  and  his  Wi^it  went  to  a  Re-' 
latioji's.Hv.yle^  ,but  my  Ccimpanion  and  I  cJiofe.la^contin'ue- 
ia .tl^rjS<W.t>  isyiheie  our  Lord  W-as /pleafed  tu-caufe  us  to  he 
-■'  down 


at   BEAUFORT,  Sec  5 

down  and  deep  in  Peace  and  Safety.  Bleffed,  for  ever  blejfed 
be  the  Keeper  of  IfraeU  who  neither  flumbereth  nor  fleepetb, 

m-  Beaufort  in  Port-RoyaL 

^f-Tuefday^  fuly  i.  Felt  a  moft  fweet  and  humble  Senfe  of 
the  divine  Prefence  in  my  Soul  this  Morning.  Went  aflbon 
as  it  was  Light,  to  a  Relation  of  our  Fellow  Travellers, 
and  afterwards  had  fome  clofe  Converfation  with  Mr.  J — , 
the  Minifter  of  the  Parifli,  about  the  great  Dodrines  of  the 
Gofpel.  He  received  us  with  much  Tendernefs  and  Re- 
fpedl:,  but  thought  I  went  too  far  in  condemning  Archbifliop 
Tillotfon.  1  think  the  Arguments  I  brought  were  conclufive, 
and  the  Account  my  new  Convert  (being  one  of  his  Pari- 
fliioners)  gave  of  God's  Dealing  with  his  Soul  was  rational, 
and  as  he  confefs'd  fatisfadtory :  But  he  could  not  fee  clearly 
into  the  Dodrine  of  Free  Jujiification,  without  Regard  to 
any  Thing  forefeen  in  the  Creature.  However,  being  more 
noble  than  moft  of  his  other  Brethren,  he  was  candid,  cour- 
teous, and  notwithftanding  he  was  in  Danger  of  incurring 
the  Commiflary's  Difpleafure  thereby,  yet  he  read  Prayers, 
and  requefted  me  to  preach  in  the  Evening  at  his  Church.  I 
did  preach,  but  to  a  fniall  Auditory,  there  being  but  little 
Notice  given  of  my  Preaching.  After  Sermon  Mr.  f —  re- 
turned me  Thanks,  and  having  promifed  to  preach  again, 
God  willing,  in  my  Return  to  Savannah^  I  took  my  Leave, 
and  fpent  the  Evening  with  my  Fellow-Travellers  at  their 
Relations  Houfes.  May  God  convert  every  one  related  to  ibetiiy 
and  make  them  all  Members  of  the  Hovfiold  of  Faith,  Even 
[oy  Lord  Jefus,  A7nen. 

CHARLESrOJVN. 

Thurfday,  July  3.  Set  out  Yefterday  about  one  in  the  Morn- 
ing. Reach'd  Mr.  Bryans  Plantation  about  ten.  Stayed 
and  dined  comfortably  together.  Wrote  a  few  Letters.  Rode 
through  extreme  Heat.  Put  in  and  lay  at  a  Planter's  Houfe, 
by  Reafon  of  the  Thunder,  Lightning  and  Rain.  Breakfafted 
this  Morning  at  Mr.  B — 's  of  Ponpon.  Pray'd,  talk'd  of 
the  Things  of  God,  and  v;as  enabled  to  hold  out,  notwith- 
ftanding the  Weather  was  exceeding  hot,  till  I  came  to- 
Charhjio-wny  about  eighty  Miles  from  Beatfort.  Here  again' 
my  Spirits  were  much  jjiHid,  and  my  ficart  comforted  by 
a  Packet  of  Letters  from  :he  Northward,  giving  me  an  Ac- 
coun:  how  the  Word  of  God  run  and  w^i  glonhcd  uxPhi- 

lade'phia^ 


6  Mr.  WartfiFlELDV  Jaurmi 

lade/phia,  and  other  adjacent  Places.  -  The  Ldrd's  Name  h 
praijed  from  the  Rifmg  up  (f  the  Sun  to  the  ^olng  doivn  of  the 
fiune, 

Friday^  July,  4.  Lay  at  a  Gentlewonidn's  Houfe,  who 
came  laft  Night  to  give  me  an  Invitation.  Was  vifited  by- 
many  dear  Friends  of  the  Town,  who  were  rejoiced  to  fee 
me.  Received  a  Letter  from  the  Commiflary,  which  I  im- 
mediately anfwered.  Wrote  fome  Letters  to  Savannah. 
Difpatched  fome  Affairs  for  the  Orphan- Houfe,  and  preached 
in  the  Evening  in  the  Independent  Meeting-Houfe  to  as  large 
and  attentive  Congregations  as  ufual.  Bleffcd  be  God  for 
giving  the  People  a  Hearing  Ear.  Lord  give  them  alfo  an 
cbedicnt  Heart  for   thy  dear  Sen^s  Sake.     Amen. 

Sunday^  July  6.  Preached  twice  Yefterday  and  twice  To- 
day, and  had  great  Reafon  to  believe  our  Lord  got  himfelf 
the  Vidory  in  iome  Hearts :  For  the  Word  was  with  Power. 
"Went  to  Church  Morning  and  Afternoon,  and  heard  the 
Commiffary  preach  as  virulent,  unorthodox  and  inconfiftent 
a  Difcourfe  as  ever  I  heard  in  my  Life.  His  Heart  feemed 
full  of  Choler  and  Refentment.  Out  of  the  Abundance 
thereof  he  poured  forth  fo  many  bitter  Words  againft  the 
Mcthodifts  (as  he  call'd  them)  in  general,  and  me  in  par- 
ticular, that  feveral  who  intended  to  receive  the  Sacrament 
at  his  Hands  withdrew.  Never,  I  believe,  -Wzs  fuch  a  Pre- 
paration-Sermon preached  before,  I  could  not  help  thinking 
the  Preacher  was  of  the  fame  Spirit  with  Bifhop  Gardner  in 
Queen  Marfs  Days.  After  Sermon,  he  fent  the  Clerk  to 
defire  me  not  to  come  to  the  Sacrament  till  he  had  fpoke 
with  me.  I  immediately  retired  to  my  Lodgings,  rejoicing 
that  I  was  accounted  worthy  to  fuffer  this  further  Degree  ot 
Contempt  for  my  dear  Lord's  Sake.  Bleffcd  Jffus^  lay  it 
not  to  the  Commijfarf  s  Charge.     Amen  and-Amtn. 

AS  HLET-  FERRT.  ^ 

"Monday,  July  7.  Set  out  early  this  Morning,  inComparf^^ 
with  feveral,  whofe  flearts  the  Lord  has  lately  opened,  aritf 
went  to  the  Houfe  of  one  Mr.  C —  a  gracious  Baptilt  Mini-'' 
iter,  who  lives  about  fourteen  Miles  from  Chdrhjiawn.  Af- 
ter Dinner,  •  according  to  Appointment,  I  preached  at  hfiS' 
Meeting-Houfe,  to  the-  Convi<fition' of  fome,  and  Comfort  of 
ethers,  who  came  to  me  rejoicing  that  the  exploded  Dodlrine^ 
of  the  Gofpcl  were  fo  publickly  and  fttccefKfuil'y  preached. 
Sermon  being  ended)  and  much  ImpoVturiity"  bfed,  I  went' 
with  fome  Cha-'-Irf::zvr.  Friends  to  the  Houfe  of  Mrs.  P—rSy 

about 


at  DORCHESTER,  &c.  j 

about  five  Miles  from  the  Meeting- Houfe,  but  was  obliged  to 
lie  down  (as  I  now  am  generally  every  Day)  by  Reafcn  of 
the  violent  Heat  of  the  Weather,  and  great  Expence  of  Sweat. 
However,  God  ftrengthened  me  much,  and  fo  affifted  me  ia 
giving  an  Exhortation  to  the  Company  that  came  with  me, 
that  all  feemed  to  be  put  under  great  Concern.  Three  or 
four  in  particular  came  out  telling  me  how  powerfully  God 
■was  working  upon  their  Souls.  Father,  /hew  that  it  is  thy 
efpecial  Work,  by  carrying  it  on  and  perfe6ling  it  till  the  Day 
If  our  Lord  J  ejus.   Amen. 

Dorchejier  and  AJhky- Ferry, 

Tuefday,  July  8.  Left  my  Lodgings  about  eight  in  the, 
]^lorning,  and  hafted  to  Dorchejler,  where  I  preached  twice 
with  much  of  the  divine  Prefence,  and  to  a  large  Audience 
in  Mr.  O — 's  Meeting- Houfe,  a  young  Lndependent  Mini- 
ver. About  four  in  the  Afternoon  we  fet  out  again  ;  took 
a  little  Refreflirnent  at  a  Gentleman's  Houfe  in  the  Way, 
and  lay  at  Mr.  C — 's  at  Night.  Here  my  bodily  Strength 
much  failed  me  again.  And  therefore,  being  very  weak, 
X  retired  to  Bed  as  foon  as  poJBble,  but  flept  but  very  little, 
hard,  hajlen  that  blejfed  Time  when  I  Jhall  Jlccp  no  mon. 

O  when  Jhall  /,  in  endlefs  Dxiy, 
For  ever  chafe  dark  Sleep  away. 
And  Hymns,  with  the  Jupernal  Choir, 
InceJJdnt  fmg,  and  never  tire  ! 

j^filey-Ferry  and  Charlejioimi. 

Wednefday,  July  9.  Found  myfelf  flill  weaker  than  before; 
but  was  ftrengthened  to  preach  under  a  Tree  near  Mr,  C — 's 
Meeting-Houfe  about  ten  in  the  Morning,  it  being  now  too 
fmall  to  contain  the  Congregation.  People  feemed  to  come 
from  all  Parts,  and  the  Word  (as  I  was  told)  came  with  a 
convincing  Power.  Having  changed  my  Linen  (which  I  am 
obliged  to  do  after  every  Sermon,  by  Reafon  of  my  prodigi- 
ous Sweating)  I  haftned  away  for  Charlejlown ;  but  my  Bo- 
dy was  fo  exceeding  weak,  and  the  Sun  ihon  fo  intenfely  hot, 
that  five  Miles  before  I  reach'd  Town,  I  called  in  at  a  Pub- 
lick-Houfe,  and  lay  for  a  confiderable  Time,  almoft  breathw'i 
lefs  and  dead.  But  God  poured  ineffable  Comforts  into  myi 
Soul.  And  being  thereby  ftrengthened  in  the  Inner- Man,  \i 
once  more  fet  forwards  with  my  dear  Fellow-Traveliers,': 

reached 


g  Mr.  Whitefield'j  Journal 

reached  Town  about  four,  and  preached  about  fix  in  the  ufu- 
al  Place,  and  with  more  Freedom  and  Power  than  could  any 
ways  be  expefled,  confidering  the  great  Weaknefs  of  my  Bo- 
dy. But  I  can  do  all  Things  through  Chrift  ftrengthening 
me.  /  thank  thee^  Holy  Father^  Lord  of  Heaven  and  Earthy 
that  I  have  fo  often  the  Sentence  of  Death  within  myfdf.  Oh^ 
let  me  be  daily  taught  thereby,  not  in  the  leafi  to  truji  to  myfelfy 
but  in  thee  the  everliving  God  ! 

Chriji's  Church,  Charlejlown,  and  John's  IJland,  ^ 

Saturday,  July  12.  Went  over  the  Water  on  Thurfday, 
and  read  Prayers  and  preached  at  the  Requeft  of  the  Church- 
Wardens  and  Veftry  at  Chrijl's  Church.  Returned  in  the 
Evening  to  Charlejiown  ;  preached  twice  there  Yefterday,  and 
■went  this  Morning  to  fohn'i  Ifland,  about  twenty  Miles  up 
the  River,  whither  I  was  invited  by  Colonel  G — s.  He  re- 
ceived me  and  my  Friends  moft  hofpitably,  provided  feveral 
Horfcs,  Chairs,  l^c.  for  us  and  his  Family.  We  rode  very 
pleafantly  to  the  Church.  There  was  a  great  Congregation. 
God  Itrengthened  me  to  read  Prayers  and  preach  twice  with 
much  Freedom.  About  four  we  returned  to  the  Colonel's, 
I  eat  with  fome  Appetite.  Was  enabled  to  give  a  warm  and 
clofc  Exhortation  to  the  Rich  that  fat  about  me,  and  return- 
ed to  Town  in  the  Evening  with  my  dear  Friends,  praifing 
and  bleffing  God.  Glory  he  to  his  mo/l  holy  Name,  Dagon 
f cents  daily  to  fall  before  the  Ark.  A  lafting  Impreilion,  I 
am  perfuaded,  is  made  on  many  Hearts :  And  God,  I  be- 
lieve, will  yet  fhew  that  he  hath  much  People  in  Charlefiowtiy 
and  the  Countries  round  about.  Lord,  thou  haft  vifited  them 
xuith  thy  Jtidgmefits,  melt  them  down  with  thy  Mercies. 
Stretch  out  the.golden  Sceptre  of  thy  Favour,  and  hruife  them 
no  more  with  thy  Iron  Rod  !  Even  fo.  Lord  Jefus,  Amen  ! 

Sunday,  Jtdy  13.  Preached  this  Morning  with  much 
Power,  and  colleftcd  in  the  Evening  for  my  poor  Orphans- 
Great  Numbers  flood  without  the  Doors,  and,  it  raining  ve- 
ry hard,  in  Time  of  divine  Service,  many  of  them  were 
driven  away.  However,  God  caufed  the  ether  People's 
Hearts  to  dcvife  liberal  Things.  Upwards  of  50/.  Sterling 
were  colleded  on  the  Occafion.  Moft  (hewed  a  Readinefs 
to  aflifl:  me,  and  the  Lord  was  pleafed  much  to  enlarge  my 
Heart  to  give  Praife  unto  his  Name. 

In  the  Morning  I  went  to  Church,  and   heard   the  Com- 

miflary  preich.     But,  had  fome  infernal  Spirit  been  fent  ta 

draw  my  Pidure,  I  think  it  fcarcely  poflible  he  could  paint 

— I  me 


at  CHARLESTOPFN.  g 

1T18  in  more  horrid  Colours.  I  think,  if  ever,  then  was  the 
Time  that  all  Manner  of  Evil  was  fpoken  againlt  me  falfely 
for  Chrift's  Sake.  The  Commiffhry  feemeJ  to  ranfack 
Church- HKtory  for  Inftances  of  Enthufiafm  and  Grace  abu- 
fed.  He  drew  a  Parallel  between  me  "and  all  thn  Oirjcr:^nSy 
Ranters,  Qi_iakers,  French  Prophet-;,  till  he  came  down  to  a 
Family  of  the  Dutarts,  who  lived  not  many  Years  ago  in 
South  Carolina,  and  were  guilty  of  the  moft  notorious  Incefts 
and  Murders.  To  the  Honour  of  God's  Free- Grace  be  it 
fpoken,  whilft  he  was  reprefenting  me  thus,  I  felt  the  Blefiei 
Spirit  ftrengthening  and  refreshing  my  Soul.  God,  at  the 
fame  Time  gave  me  to  fee  what  I  was  by  Nature^  How  I 
had  defcrved  his  "eternal  Wrath,  and  therefore  I  did  net  feel 
the  lea  ft  Refentment  againft  the  Preacher:  No,  I  pitied,  I 
prdyed  for  him,  and  wilh'd  from  my  Soul,  that  the  Lord 
would  convert  him^  as  he  did  once  the  Perfecutor  Sau/,  and 
let  him  know  that  it  is  Jefus  whom  he  perfecutes.  In  the 
Evening  many  came,  as  I  was  inform'd,  to  hear  what  I 
V/ouldTay  ;  hut  as  the  CommifTary  hinted,  that  his  Sermons 
fhould  be  printed,  and  as  they  were  full  of  invidious  Falle- 
hoods,  )L.htld  my  Tongue,  and  made  little  or  no  Reply.  Fa' 
ther,  forgive-  him,  for  he  knozvs  not  ivhat  he  does. 

Saturdays-July  19.  Preached  all  this  Week,  twice  every 
Dliy  at  Charicjfcwn,  except  on  JVednefday  and  Thurfday 
Evening,  the  lalt  of  which  Days  I  was  called  upon  to  go  to 
'Ja?ues'f,  Ifland,  to  preach  at  the  Houfe  of  one  Madam  W — d. 
This  Gentlev/oman,  as  (he  inform'd  me  herfelf,  was  once 
much  prejudiced  ?gainft  me,  infomuch  that  Ibe  thought  ic 
dangerous  to  come  and  hear  me.  But  having  read  my  Ser- 
mons, fhe  changed  her  Mind,  and  coming  both  to  Town, 
and  to  fohyCs  Ifand  to  hear  me  preach,  was,  with  her  Daugh- 
ter and  another  Gentleu'oman,  much  mclted'down.  Being 
given  to  Hofpitaiity,  {he  provided  Food  fufficient  for  a  great 
Multitude.  Pccple  came  from  Town  and  all  the  other 
neighbour;ng  Place:-.  Her  Barn  was  put  into  proper  Order, 
and  I  read  Prayers  and  preached  in  it,  Vv'ith  much  of  God's 
BlefTed  Spirit  in  my  Soul.  A  lovely  Melting  was  vifible  iu 
feveral  Parts  of  the  Aoditory.  After  Sermon  God  enabled 
me  to  f^eak  many  Gofpel  Truths,  amidfl  a  polite  Set  oC 
People.  And  at  the  Requeft  of  Madam  lF—d,l  ftaid  all 
Night,  which  gave  "m.E  ati  Opportunity  of  teaching  her  Fa- 
mily the  Way  pf  God  moffe  peffeftiv,  and  alfo  of  rcfting 
my  weary  ^0<fy^'' which  fecrns   (o  b;    dcciin  ng  more  and 


XO  Mr,  WniTEFiELD'i  Journal 

more  every  Day.     Blejfed  he  God^  I  hope  it  will  not  be  Jong 
ere  JForms  dejirey  it,  and  my  Soul  curried  to  fee  God. 

-     -J'    VJ\rr   ■'■     c    ::<c  [ 

'Jijus^  to  t^  dear  faithful,  Handy  a 

My  naked  Soul  i  trufi: 
My  Flejh  awaits  thy  bleft  Commandy 

To  drop  into  mj  Duji. 

A 

[Here  would  follow  a  particular  Account  of  my  Trial,  but  It 
IS  judged  proper  not  to  publifh  it,whilft  the  Caufe  is  depending.] 

Sunday y  July  20.  Preached  in  the  Morning  as  ufual,  and 
went  afterwards  to  Church  to  hear  the  Commillary.  His 
Text  was,  Take  heed  how  ye  hear.  At  firit  I  thought  we 
Ihould  have  a  peaceable  Sermon,  efpecially  fmce  we  had  con- 
verfed  the  Night  before  fo  amicably.  But  the  Gall  foon  be- 
gan to  flow  from  his  Tongue,  tho'  not  with  fo  much  Bit- 
ternefs  as  the  iafl  Sunday.  He  endeavoured  to  apologize  for 
his  Proceedings,  condemned  all  that  followed  me,  and  gave 
all  Hopes  of  Heaven  that  adhered  to  him  and  the  Church. 
In  the  Evening  (tho'  1  went  oif  my  Bed  to  do  it,  and  was 
carried  in  a  Chaife)  the  Lord  Jefus  itrengthened  me  to  take 
my  laft  Farewell  of  the  dear  People  of  Charlefhwn,  IVly 
Soul  was  full  of  Tendernefs  for  them,  and  many  feemed  to 
fympathize  with  me. 

Blefled  be  God  for  fending  me  once  more  among  them. 
Tho'  the  Heat  of  the  Weather  and  Frequency  of  Preaching, 
have  perhaps  given  an  irrecoverable  Stroke  to  the  Health  of 
my  Body  ;  yet,  I  rejoice,  knowing  it  has  been  for  the  Con- 
viction, and  I  believe  Converfion  of  many  a  Soul.  Glory  he  to 
God  on  highy  the  Fields  here^  as  well  as  elfewhere,  are  now 
white,  ready  to  Harveft.  Numbers  are  feeking  after  Jefus. 
And  two  or  three  gracious  Diilcnting  Miniftcrs,  by  my  Ad- 
vice, agreed  to  iet  up  a  weekly  Lecture.  J  advifed  the  People, 
,  fmce  the  Gofpel  was  not  preached  in  the  Church,  to  go  and 
hear  it  in  the  Aleeting-Houfes,'  Aday  the  Lord  be  ivith  both 
Mini/hn  and  People,  and  caufe  thtm  to  prtach  and  hear  as 
become  the  Gofpel  of  Chrifi.  Wliat  makes  the  Change  more 
remarkable  in  Charlflown  People  is,  that  they  feemed  to  me, 
at  my  firft  coming,  to  be  a  People  wholly  devoted  to  Plea- 
fure.  One  well  acquainted .  witli  their  Circumftances  and 
Manners  told  me,,  more  had  been  annually  fpent  on  polite 
Entertainment?  than  tln^,  Pooi's-Rate  came  to.  But  now 
tii«5  Jfiw$ll?fs  and  Dancing  M^jkers  begin  to  cry  out,  That 
:•',.,  \  their 


^r  ^  SHLET-FERRT.  u 

ihelr  Craft  is  in  Danger,  A  vaft  Alteration  is  difcernible  in 
the  I/adies  Drefs  :  And  fome,  whilft  I  have  been  fpeaking, 
have  been  (o  convinced  of  the  Sin  of  wearing  Jewels,  that  I 
have  feen  them,  with  Biufhes,  put  up  their  Hands  and  cover 
their  Jewels  with  their  Mobs.  But,  I  hope,  tiie  Reforma- 
tion has  went  further  than  Externals.  Many  moral,  good 
Sort  of  Men,  who  before  were  fettled  on  their  Lees,  have 
been  glorioufly  awakened  to  feek  after  Jefus  Chrift.  And 
fcany  a  Lydia's  Heart  hath  the  Lord  opened  to  receive  the 
-Things  that  were  fpoken.  Indeed  the  Word  often  came  like 
a  Hammer  and  a  Fire.  And  a  Door,  I  believe,  will  be  o- 
pened  for  teaching  the  poor  Negroes.  Several  of  them  have 
done  their  Work  in  lefs  Time  than  ufual,  that  they  may 
come  to  hear  me.  Many  of  their  Owners,  who  have  been 
awakened,  refulve  to  teach  them.  Had  I  Time,  and  proper 
Schoolmafters,  I  might  immediately  ereft  a  Negro-School 
in  South-Carolina^  as  well  as  Pennfyhania.  Many  would 
willingly  contribute  both  Money  and  Land.  Every  Day 
almoft  fomething  or  another  was  fent  for  my  Orphans  at 
Georgia.  The  People  were  very  follicitous  about  my  Health, 
when  they  faw  me  weak,  and  fent  me  many  fmall  Prefents. 
I  feared  fometimes  they  would  be  too  hot ;  but  I  endeavoured 
to  flop  their  Refentnient  againft  the  Cnmmillary,  as  much 
as  poffible,  and  recommended  Peace  and  M(  deration  to  them, 
in  moft  of  my  Difcourfes.  May  the  Lord  Jefus  retvard  them 
for  all  their  Works  of  Faith ^  and  Labours  vjhich  have  proceeded 
of  Love,  May  he  never  leave  them  without  a  Teaching  Priejl, 
and  grant  that  the  Seed  fov;n  in  their  Hearts  may  grow  up 
into  an  eternal  Harvcji  !    Amen  and  Amen  1 

^J^'  Afiky 'Ferry  and  Fonpon. 

"^^  Monday,  July  11.  Left  Charlcfloivn   very  early,  accom- 

-panied  by  many  of  the  Inhabitants,   who,   I  hope,  will  prove 

true  Followers  of  the   Lamb.     Read  Prayers  and  preached  at 

AflAey-Ferry   to  a  large  Congregation,  and    great  Power   was 

amonglt    them.       The    Weather    continuing   extreme   hot, 

'  fweating  arid  preaching  weakened  me  very  much.      1  went  in 

'a  Chariot  to  Madam  B — 's,  who  kindly  iitvited  me  and  my 

"-friends  to  Dinner.     I  eat  but  little  ;  took  Leave  of  my  dear 

Fellow-travellers,  as  well  as  I  could  ;  took  Horfe,  put  in  for 

■Shelter  from  the  Rain  at    Major  S — 's  in  the  Evening,  and 

"reached   Mr.  B — 's  of  Ponpon,  near  forty  Miles   from  Town 

'about  Midnight.     Here  1  had    the  Pleafure  of  meeting  Mr, 

■■■  B  2  Hugh 


1 3  Mr.  W II I T  E  F  r  E  L  D ' J  'Journal 

Hugh  B-^n  :  But  Nature  being  quite  worn  out,  I  went  to 
Relt,  afiboii  as  poiBble,  not  doubting  but  the  Lord  would 
caufe  me  to  renew  my  Strength  before  the  Morning.  IVhy 
fuculd  I  doubt  it,  ftnce  the  Lord  hath  Jaid,  I  vj'dl  never  leave 
or  for  fake  tnee  ? 

Tuefday,  July  23.  Slept  pretty  vveil,  but  found  myfelf  not 
flrong  enough  to  engage  in  f'amily-diitv.  Met  with,  and 
was  civilly  treated  by  Mr.  S —  and  Mr.  S — ,  two  Scots'Ptt(~ 
Jjyterian  Minifters,  and  Mr,  T —  a  Church  of  Englatid  Mif- 
fionary,  who  refufed  to  preach  or  fit  in  Judgment  againft  me. 
About  Noon  God  ftrengthcned  me  to  ride  a  Mile,  and  preach, 
under  a  great  Tree,  to  an  attentive  Auditory.  Some,  1  ob- 
ferved,  were  afFe(5tcd.  And  I  would  willingly  have  preached 
a  fecond  1  ime  ;  but  my  Body  was  fo  weak,  that,  by  the 
Advice  of  Friends,  I  refolved  to  continue  where  I  was  all 
Night.  Surely  it  cannot  b^  long  ere  this  earthly  Tabernacle 
will  bt'  diffohed.  Never  did  the  Hart  pant  more  eagerly  after 
the  Water  Erooks^  than  my  Soul  thirjls  after  the  Evjoyvient  of 
thee  my  God. 

Hoofpanah -Chapel  and  Good-Hope. 

IVednefday,  July  24.  Rofe  fome  Time  before  Day,  and 
about  Noon  got  to  Hoofpanah-Chapel,  near  thirty  Miles 
from  Mr.  B — 's.  Here  1  preached  to  a  very  fmail  Audi- 
tory, few  People  living  thereabouts ;  hut  (as  I  was  af- 
terwards informed)  not  without  good  Effecl,  Sermon  being 
over,  I  went  on  Horfeback  to  Good- Hope,  vvheie  Mr.  Hugh 
B — n  lived,  and  fcveral  followed,  hoping  I  would  preach  a- 
gain  in  the  Evening.  But  here  my  bodily  Strength  fo  failed 
me,  and  God  poured  fuch  ineffable  Thiritings  and  Hnnger- 
ings  into  my  Soul  after  him  ;  that  I  fometimes  hoped  he  was 
s^bout  to  fet  my  imprifoned  Soul  at  Liberty.  Surely  God 
then  placed  me  upon  Mount  Pifgah,  and  gave  me  a  diltant 
Profpecl  of  the  heavenly  Canaan.  1  ilretched  for  Inmior- 
tality,  and  longed  for  the  bleflird  Angels  to  come  and  carry 
me  to  Abraham's  Harbour.  Thefe  Words,  /  know  that  wy 
Redeimt-r  liveth,  with  wonderful  Suectnefs  and  Power  were 
prcfled  upon  my  Soul  :  And  the  Thoughts  of  my  Saviour's 
flying  Love,  and  of  the  I^ord's  beir.g  ?f)y  Rigliteoufnefs,  melt- 
ed me  into  Tears.  My  dear  Friend  and  Companion  wept 
over  me,  anfwered  almoit  Tear  for  1  e.ir,  and  fecmed  willing 
^9^t^ke  , his  Flight  with  me  into  the  Arms  of  our  beloved 
ji(^(ii,ti.,;,/Thei  poor  Ntgroes  cicvvded  round  the  Windows, 
^,... ,  .  and. 


at  SAVANNAH.  13 

and,  by  t^cir  Looks  and  OffiGioufnefs,  exprefled  a  great 
Concern  for  me.  Their  Mafter  had  acquainted  them,  1  be- 
lieve, that  I  was  their  Friend.  He  himftU  fat  by  and  wept  too. 
But,  alas !  God  foon  (hewed  me  that  the  Time  of  my  De- 
parture was  not  yet  at  Hand.  In  a  fhort  Time,  I  perceived 
my  Body  grow  fironger,  and  I  was  enabled  to  walk  about. 
As  well  as  I  could  1  joined  in  Family- Prayer,  and  begg'd  of 
God,  if  I  was  not  to  die,  but  live,  it  might  be  to  declare  the 
Works  and  Loving-kindnefs  of  the  Lord.  Grant  this^  O 
Father,  for  thy  dear  Son's  Sake.     Amen  and  Amen. 

Good-Hope  and  Beaufort, 

Thurfday^  July  25.  Being  too  v/eak  to  ride  on  Horfeback, 
I  went  in  Mr.  B — 's  Boat  to  Beaufort.  We  got  thither  a- 
bout  ten  in  the  Morning,  but  the  Heat  of  the  Sun  almoft 
llruck  me  down,  and  took  away  my  Senfes,  as  foon  as  I  put 
my  Foot  on  Shore.  Kind  Mr.  J — s  courteoufly  received  me. 
In  the  Cool  of  the  Evening,  I  preached  in  his  Church,  to  a 
larger  Auditory,  and  with  more  Power,  than  when  there  laft. 
Mr.  J —  thanked  me  for  my  Sermon,  difapproved  entirely  of 
the  CommilTary's  Treatment  of  me,  and  kindly  entertamed 
me  and  my  Friends  all  Night.  The  Lord  Jsfus  hiefs  bis  Ha- 
bitation.,  and  give  him  to  know  how  it  is  that  ive  are  freely  re-- 
deemed  by  his  precious  Blood  ! 

Beaufort  and  Savaitnah. 

Friday^  July  26  Took  Boat  before  Day,  and  having  fine 
Weather,  and  a  favourable  Gale,  reached  Savannah,  and  fa- 
luted  my  dear  Family  about  five  in  the  Evening.  My  Body 
being  weak,  it  could  not  bear  up  under  the  Joy  and  Satis- 
faftion  which  I  felt  in  my  Mind.  However,  I  knecl'd 
down,  wept  out  a  fliort  P.-'ayer  and  Thankfgiving,  and,  as 
well  as  I  could,  told  my  Affiftants  what  God  had  done  for 
my  Soul.  In  the  Evening,  I  expounded,  and  undefignedly, 
thinking  it  was  the  Lefibn  for  the  Night,  read  the  hft  Chap- 
ter of  St.  Paul's  fecond  Epiftle  to  Timothy^  in  which  were 
thefe  encouraging  Words.  But,  watch  thou  in  all  Things, 
endure  Jffiitliovs,  do  the  Work  of  an  Evangelifl,  make  full 
Proof  of  thy  Minifiry.  Alexander  the  Copperjinith  did  me 
Viucb  Evil,  the  Lord  reward  him  according  to  his  IVorks.  Of 
whom  be  thou  aware  alfo.  For  he  hath  greatly  %LHihjhdd  01& 
Words.     At  my  firfl  Trial,  no  Man  flood  by  ine.     Notwith- 

Jlanding 


J4  Mr.  WhitefieldV  Journal 

Ji  an  ding  the  Lord  Jiood  by  me,  and  Jlrengthened  me,  that  by 
me,  the  Preaching  rnight  he  fully  known:  And  I  was  delivered 
out  of  the  Mouth  of  the  Lion  :  And  the  Lord  Jhall  deliver  me 
from  every  evil  V/ork,  and  will  prcferve  vie  to  his  heavenly 
Kingdom,  to  whom  he  Glory  for  ever  and  ever.     Amen. 

Tkurfday,  Augujl  I.  Continued  very  weak,  ever  fince-my 
Return  from  Charh flown -,  but  was  much  refrcflied  this 
Morning  with  the  Sight  of  fome  dear  Friends,  (amongfl 
whom  was  one  Mr.  T—y,  a  Baptiit-Minifter)  who  came  in 
our  Sloop  to  fee  the  Orphan- Houfe.  I  gave  them  the 
Meeting  at  early  Prayers,  and  God  enabled  me  to  expound 
with  Power.  Lord  let  them  not  depart  hence  without  having 
fome  fpiritual  Gift  imparted  to  them.     Amen  and  Amen! 

Sunday,  Augujl  3.  Felt  more  than  common  of  the  divine 
Prefence  in  my  Soul  fince  the  Arrival  of  Char lejlown  Friends, 
who  brought  the  Orphans  many  Prefcnts,  and  bleiTed  God 
for  the  Footrteps  of  his  Goodnefs  and  Providence,  plainly  dif- 
cernible  amongft  us.  But  laft  Night,  through  Weaknefs  of 
Body,  and  a  prodigious  Concern,  which  lay  upon  my  Soiil,  juft 
as  I  began  Family  Prayer,  I  was  Itruck.  as  I  thought,  almoft 
with  Death.  I  put  up  a  few  broken  Accents,  and  breathed  out, 
Lord  fcfns  receive  my  Spirit.  This  Morning  my  Mafter  {hew- 
ed me  why  I  was  thus  humbled.  Soon  after  I  rofe,  I  found 
that  Mr.  f —  and  his  Wife  of  Port- Royal,  Mr.  Jonathan 
B — ,  Brother  to  Mr,  Hugh  B — ,  and  one  Mr.  B—U,  were 
all  come  to  pay  us  a  Vilit.  Tho*  exceeding  weak,  and  I  had 
almoft  laid  afide  Thoughts  of  officiating  this  Day,  yet,  upon 
Mr.  y — 's  intimating  that  Friends  came  expecting  to  hear 
me,  I  promifed,  if  I  could,  to  preach,  and  begg'd  him  to 
read    Prayers.     He    did,    but  I  found   myfelf  fo  ill,     that  I 

would  fain  have  perfuaded  Mr.  T y  to   preach    for    me. 

He  peremptorily  refufed,  urging  that  God  would  ftrengthen 
xne  if  I  begun.  Upon  this  I  ftood  up,  and  foon  found  Power 
communicated  to  be  from  above.  I  felt  a  fweet  A'lelting  in 
nDy  Soul,  and  ere  I  had  prayed  long,  Mr.  B — //dropp'd  down, 
as  tho'  ihot  with  a  Gv,u. — He  foon  got  up,  and  fat  atten- 
tively to  hear  the  Sermon.  The  Power  foon  fpread  abroad. 
The  greatcft  Part  of  the  Congregation  was  under  great  Con^- 
cern.  Tears  trickkd  down  apace.  God  mantfefted  himfcif 
ialfb  amangft  us  much 'during  the  Time  of  the  Sacrament, 
PTid  I  went  home  afhamcd  that  I  was  fo  unwilling  to  preach. 
I  rtood  julHy  reproved,  when  Mr.  T — ,  after  we  came  home, 
#id;'  "  Did-1  not  tdl  youj  God  would  itrcngthen  you?" 
oj  \>YKi*i  niaioqi  i  <\^q'0  :  Dtareji 


at  SAVANNAH.  15 

Deareji   Lardy  for  thy  Mercies  Sake^    never  let   me  dijlruji 
Thee  again.     Oh  me  of  little  Faith  ! 

Monday  Augujl  4.  Was  fent  for  about  Noon  to  fee  Mr. 
'Jonathan  B — n.  At  my  Coming,  I  found  him  under  great 
Concern,  and  flrong  Convicllons  of  Sin.  Oh  !  How  did  he 
refledl  on  his  paft  mifpent  Life!  How  did  he  blefs  God  for 
bringing  him  now  to  Savannah,  and  defire  that  he  might  be 
found  in  Chrift  ere  he  returned  Home  !  His  Wife  fat  weep- 
ing by,  and  Mr.  B — //  lay  on  a  Bed  groaning  in  Bitternefs 
of  Soul,  under  a  Senfe  ot  Guilt,  and  crying  out  for  an  Inte- 
r.^  in  Jefus.  I  asked  him,  *'  what  caufed  him  to  fall  down 
*5.  Yefterday."  Heanfwered,  *'  The  Powerof  God's  Word." 
After  about  half  an  Hour's  Converfation  on  the  Nature  of 
the  New-Birth,  and  the  Necellity  of  a  faving  Clofure  with 
the  Lord  Chrift  ;  I  kneeled  down,  prayed  with  them,  and 
then  took  my  Leave,  well  hoping,  that  the  Lord  would  pluck 
them  as  Fire-brands  out  of  the  Burning.  Even  fo  Lord  J 6' 
fus.  Amen  and  Amen. 

Sunday y    Augujl  9.  Went  on    Tuefday   with    Mr.  B ^ 

y — J,  &c.  to  Bethefda,  and  had  the  Pleafure  of  feeing  the 
Work  of  God  going  on  in  moft  of  our  Vifuor's  Hearts.  It 
was  but  feldom  I  could  officiate  ;  but,  when  I  did,  the  Lord 
generally  caufed  the  Word  to  come  with  very  great  Power. 
This  Morning  I  expounded  early  as  ufual,  and  read  Part  of 
the  Prayers  at  ten  o'  Clock  ;  but  got  Mr.  T — y  to  preach, 
who  (tho'  a  Baptiil:  Minifter)  joined  with  us  in  receiving  the 
Sacrament  in  the  Church  of  England  Way.  The  King 
was  pleafed  to  fit  at  his  Table  :  He  brought  us  into  his  Ban- 
quetting  Houfe,  and  caufed  it  to  be  a  Feaft  of  fat  Things 
to  our  Souls.  Many,  I  believe,  fed  on  Jefus  in  their  Hearts 
with  Thankfgiving.  After  the  Ordinance  was  over,  the 
Lord  enlarged  my  Heart,  and  I  prayed  as  the  Spirit  gave  me 
Utterance.  I  went  home  much  refrefhed  in  my  Soul,  but 
ib  weak  in  Body  that  I  declined  going  to  public  W^orihip 
in  the  Afternoon.  In  the  mean  while  God  gave  me  a  frei'ti 
Supply  of  Strength.  About  the  Evening,  when  my  Friends 
were  fitting  down  together,  finding  the  Power  of  the  Lord 
come  upon  me,  1  began  to  fpeak  to  them  of  the  Things  of 
God.  A  great  Alteration  v/as  foon  difcernable  in  moft  of  the 
Company  J  their  Concern  gradually  iacreafed,  till  many  burlt 
into  Floods  of  Tears,  and  one  iell  upon  the  Ground — Eije 
I  had  done,  fome  of  my  Panfhioners  came  up,  and  the  reft 
of  my  Family:  They  al fo  felt  the  divine  Power.  Wii^ 
1  had  done  fpeaking  to  ihera  from  God,  I  fpoke  in  Prayer  to 

God 


1 6  Mr.  WniTEFiELD'i  jGurnal 

God  for  them.  My  Soul  was  carried,  as  it  were,  out  of  the 
Body,  and  I  was  enabled  to  vvrdtle  mightily  with  our  Lord 
in  their  Behalf — He  did  not  let  us  go  without  a  BlefTmg. — 
The  Room  was  filled  with  the  Cries  of  thofe  around  me, 
and  many,  I  believe,  at  that  Time  fought  Jefus  forrowing. — 
The  Concern  continued  after  the  Duty  was  over — Several 
■were  in  great  Agonies  of  Soul,  and  a  Cherikee  Indian  Trad- 
er, who  providentially  was  prefent,  defired  to  fpeak  v/ith  me, 
faying,  he  never  faw  or  felt  the  like  before.  Mr.  f — s 
alfo  of  Port- Royal  (who  wenf>  away  on  Friday^  but  was 
forced  back  by  contrary  "Winds,  and  officiated  fcr  me  this  Af- 
ternoon at  Savannah)  rold  a  Friend,  th-Mfurely  Gcdwas  with 
us  of  a  Truth.  Blefjed  be  his  rich.,  fcvercign^  and  diflinguifo- 
ing  Grace  !  Lord  make  me  lowly  in  mine  own  Eyes,  and  caufe 
tnejlill  to  go  on  from  conquering  to  conquer.  Not  unto  me,  not  un- 
to me,  but  unto  Thee,  my  King  and  my  God,  be  all  the  Gloiy  f 

Saturday y  Augujl  15.  Parted  with  dear  Mr.  B —  and 
Mr,  B — n,  on  Tuefday,  who,  I  hope,  could  fay.  Lord  now 
lettcft  thou  thy  Servants  depart  in  Peace^  for  our  Eyes  have 
feen,  our  Hearts  have  felt  thy  Salvation.  Met  with  clofer 
outvi^ard  Trials  this  Week  than  ever  I  was  vifited  with  before. 
Was  forced  feveral  Times  to  come  out  thro'  Concern  of  Soul, 
and  Weakncfj  of  Body  in  the  midft  of  public  Worfhip,  and, 
had  not  God  uncommonly  fupported  me,  I  muft  frequently 
have  given  up  the  Gholl.  But,  as  Troubles  abounded,  Con^ 
folations  abounded  alfo.  Thcfe  Words,  But  D.xvidflre?Jgth- 
ened  himfelf  in  the  Lord  his  God,  were  preflcd  with  a  won- 
derful (unporting  Power  upon  my  Soul.  The  Eleventh  of 
Hcbrevjs  alfo  was  blefled  to  me.  I  found  the  Benefit  of  be- 
rpg  afflided.  God  enabled  me  to  fanftify  him  in  my  Heart, 
and  my  greateft  Grief  was,  that  I  fliould  be  fo  naughty  as  to 
oblige  my  heavenly  Father  to  chaflize  and  fcourgc  ine.  Lord, 
I  adore  thy  infinite  condcfcending  Goodncfs.  Oh  do  not  leave 
me  to  my f elf  but  purge,  O  purge  me,  for  thy  Afcrcics  Sake^ 
that  I  may  bring  forth  more  Fruit  ! 

Cor  re  Si  me  when  I  go  a  fir  ay. 
And  lead  me  in  thy  perfcfi  Way. 

h>.iMonday,  Augufl  I'j .  Preached  Ycftcrday  Morning,  and 
took  Leave  of  my  Parifliioncrs.  Admin:frer*d  the  blefled  Sa- 
crament, iuid  gave  a  ciofe  Exhortation  ar!:crward>\  Settled 
every  Thing  to  the  bell  of  my  Power  for  the  Orphan- houfe, 
which  fuccteds  bcyord  Expectation,  and  was  ib  filled  with 

the 


at  CHARLES^TOWN.  ly 

of  the  Love  of  Chrift  in  this  Evening's  Expofition,  and  my  pri- 
vate Farevi'el  difcourfe,  that  I  coulcl  ahnoft  fay  I  was  within 
the  Veil. — My  Hearers,  both  in  public  and  private,  were 
vaflly  afFcifted,  and  a  ftrange  Woman  was  fo  touched,  that 
fnecame  to  me  confefTing  her  Sins,  and  crying  out  what  JhaJl 
I  do  to  he  fovedi'  When  I  came  to  converfe  with  her,  I 
found  God  had  ftruck  her  the  lafl  Time  I  preached  at  Port- 
Royal^  and  1  hope  he  will  now  efFeftnally  call  her  by  his 
Grace,  Pleafed,  and  I  hope,  in  fome  Meaiure  thankful  to 
the  Lord. of  all  Lords  for  fetting  fiich  Seals  to  my  Miniftry 
jufl  at  Departure.  About  lo  at  Night  1  went  on  Board  our 
Sloop  with  my  other  dear  Vifitors,  in  order  to  go  to  Charles- 
Town  ;  where,  by  the  Advice  of  Friends,  the  Captain  is  to 
take  in  Freight  for  Bojion,  for  the  Benefit  of  the  Orphan- 
houfe.  The  Lord  preferve  my  dear  La?nbs  and  Flock.,  in  ?ny 
Jh fence  ;  bririg  the?n  bito  green  Pafiures^  and  lead  them  befide 
the  IFaters  of  Comfort  for  his  own  Names  Sa^e  I 

CHARLES^TOJVN, 

Friday.,  Auguft  2i.  Had  a  comfortable  PafTage  with  xr\y 
dear  Friends.  Found  the  Sea  Aii»improved  my  Health;  and 
arrived  at  Charleflon  about  4  this  Afternoon.  Many  came 
to  the  Wharf,  and  faluted  me  moll  kindly.  1  retired  as 
foon  as  poflible,  to  my  Lodgings ;  and  Ipent  the  Evening 
moft  fweetly  at  the  Houfe  of  Mr.  F — r  \  where  I  hope  many 
a  true  Difciple  of  the  blefTed  Jefus  were  met  together.  The 
Lord,  who  once  came  to  the  eleven  by  Night,  and  faid 
Peace  be  unto  you,  I  am  perfuaded  by  his  Spirit  fpoke  to 
many  of  them.  The  Lord,  I  believe;  has  made  a  willing 
People  in  this  Day  of  his  Power.  Praifed  be  his  Name  from 
the  rifing  up  of  the  Sun,  unto  the  going  down  of  the  fame  ! 

Monday,  Augufl  24.  Being  but  weak  in  Body  (except  oa 
Sundays)  1  have  preached  only  once  every  Day  :  But  I  think 
with  greater  Power  than  ever,  and  with  greater  Succefs.— < 
I  fcarce  know  the  Time,  wherein  I  did  not  fee  a  conliderable 
melting  in  fome  Part  or  other  of  the  Congregation,  and  of- 
ten it  fpread  over  all  the  Parts  of  it.  Several  Times  I  was  fo 
weak  before  I  began  to  preach,  that  I  thought  it  almoft  im- 
poflible  I  fhould  go  through  half  the  Difcourfe.  But  the  Lord 
quickened,  enlightened,  and  fupported  me  above  Meafure. 
Out  of  Weaknefs  I  became  ftrong,  and  the  Lord  manifefted. 
himfelf  in  the  Sandaary.  The  Audiences  were  more  nume- 
roiis  than  ever,  and  it  was  fuppofed,  not  lefs  -than  4000 
C  were 


1 8  Mr.  WaiTEFiELD'i  Journal 

were  in  and  about  tlie  Meeting- houfe,  when  I  preached  my 
Fare wel- Sermon.  The  Commiflary,  having  run  his  utmoft 
I^ength,  thought  it  beft  to  fay  no  more  himfelf ;  finding, 
when  I  was  here  laft,  that  Jefus  Chrift  was  not  preached  in 
the  Church,  my  Confcience  would  not  fuffer  me  to  attend 
on  thofe  that  preached  there  any  more.  I  therefore  wenttotha 
Baptift  and  Independent  Meeting  houfes,  where  Jefus  Chrift 
was  preached  in  Sincerity.  I  likewife  adminiftered  the  Sacra- 
ment thrice  in  a  private  Houfe.  Yefterday,  Yefterday  was 
fevennight,  and  this  Morning — Never  did  I  fee  any  Thing 
more  folemn — The  Room  was  large,  and  moft  diflblved 
into  Tears  as  though  they  were  weeping  at  their  Saviour's 
Crofs.  Surely  Jefus  Chrift  crucified  was  evidently  fet  forth 
before  them.  Many,  at  their  Requert,  ftood  by  that  did  not 
receive,  but  they  wept  bitterly.  I  prayed  for  them  all  with 
great  Power,  and  I  hope  the  Lord  will  cloath  them  with  a 
Wedding  Garment.  What  was  beft,  Baptlfts,  Church 
Folks  and  Presbyterians,  all  joined  together,  and  received  ac- 
cording to  the  Church  of  Englafid,  except  two,  who  delired 
to  have  it  fitting :  I  willingly  ccmplied,  knowing  it  was  a 
Thing  quite  indifferent.  Adany  others  hearing  how  God  was 
amongft  us  Yefterday,  defired  I  would  adminifter  to  Day  ; 
I  did,  and  our  Lord  was  with  us  again.  Having  more  Lei- 
fure  from  my  private  Studies,  by  Reafon  my  Weaknefs 
would  not  permit  me  to  read  much  ;  I  had  better  Opportu- 
nities ol  converfing  with,  and  confirming  thofe  that  were 
under  Convi6lions.  Molt  of  them  I  found  grown  in  Grace, 
and  their  Hearts  foftened  by  redeeming  Love.  Mr.  Jona- 
than B — n  came  much  eftabliflied.  Air.  Hugh  B — n  was 
left  fick  at  Home,  drinking  dctply  of  the  Cup  of  God's  Con- 
foiations,  and  his  Wife  a  gracious  Woman  came  to  Charles- 
toivn.  By  my  Advice  they  refolved  to  begin  a  Negroe-School. 
A  young  Stage  Player,  convinced  when  I  was  at  New-York  laft, 
and  who  providentially  came  to  Georgia.,  when  Mr.  Jonathan 
B — n  was  there,  is  to  be  tiieir  firft  Mafter.  The  Time  would 
fail  me  was  I  to  defcend  to  every  Particular. — Great,  a  very 
great  Alteration  is  made  in  the  Life  and  Manners  of  feveral 
of  the  polite  Ladies.  Th<i  Rooms  that  were  ufually  employed 
for  Balls  and  Aficmblies  were  now  turned  into  Society- 
Rooms.  Every  Night,  where  I  was  invited  to  Supper,  it 
became  cuftomary  to  have  the  Floufe  filled  with  Company, 
with  whom  the  Lord  enabled  me  to  pray  and  exhort  often 
with  great, Power  j  but  once  I  was  fo  fick  that  I  was  obliged 
,|;o  be  led  Home.      Many  canje  in  private   under  the  detpeft 

Con- 


at    NEWPORT,    .  19 

Convl(5\Ions.  Several  were  efteemed  mad  by  their  Relations- 
One  young  Lady  in  particular  was  for  fonie  little  Time  turned 
out  of  Doors,  but  afterwards  was  recalled  ;  and  one  who 
was  looked  upon  as  a  very  good  Man,  was  convinced  of 
Self-righteoufnefs  in  an  extraordinary  Manner,  and  burnt 
near  40  /.  worth  of  Books  written  by  fuch  as  Mr.  Chub,  Fojler^ 
&c.  The  Care  which  People  exprefs'd  for  my  Health  and 
Prefervation,  was  Jincommon.  They  were  generally  fend- 
ing me  in  fomething  or  another,  and  fo  loaded  our  Sloop 
with  Sea  Stores,  that  I  was  obliged  to  fend  much  of  them  to 
the  Orphan-houfe.  How  this  Work  will  end  I  know  not. 
At  prefent  there  is  a  comfortable  Profpec?!:  that  the  Lord  will 
gather  to  himfelf  out  of  Charhjlown,  a  peculiar  People  -zea- 
lous of  good  Works,  Being  to  be  abfent  from  them  for  a  long 
Seafon,  I  exhorted  them  with  all  my  Power  to  continue  in 
the  Grace  of  God  ;  I  forwarned  them  of  their  Danger,  and 
told  them  how  they  mull  deny  themfelves,  and  take  up  their 
daily  Crofles,  if  they  would  follow  Jefus  Chrift.  Having 
our  Sloop  freighted,  and  the  Wind  favouring  us,  after  Din- 
ner, with  feveral  Charlejlown  Friends,  I  embarked  for 
Rhode-IJland,  intending  to  go  from  thence  by  Land  to  Bojlon. 
In  the  Evening  we  got  over  the  Bar,  but  the  Pilot  would  not 
take  any  Thing  for  his  Trouble.  Here  I  parted  with  all 
Friends,  except  four,  two  of  which,  God  willing,  intend  to 
accompany  me  during  this  Excurfion.  Do  thou,  O  Lordy 
who  clafpejl  the  JVinds  In  thy  Fijls,  arid  holdeji  the  TFaters  in 
the  Holloiu  of  thy  Hand^  accept  our  Thanks  for  paji  Mercies^ 
fanSfify  our  Voyage,  and  if  it  be  bejl,  carry  us  with  Speed  to 
the  Haven  where  we  would  be.  Amen  and  Amen. 

Newport  m  Rhode-ljlajid, 

Sunday,  September  14.  Was  fick  Part  of  thePaflage,  but 
found  afterwards  the  Sea- Air,  under  God,  much  improved 
my  Health.  Arrived  at  New-Port  in  Rhode- IJIand  ]u^  after 
the  Beginning  of  Evening-Service.  We  came  purpofely 
thither  firfl:  with  our  Sloop.  I  think  it  the  molt  pleafant  En- 
trance I  ever  yet  faw.  Almoft  all  the  Morning  the  Wind 
was  contrary  ;  but  I  found  a  very  ftrong  Inclination  to  pray 
that  we  might  arrive  Time  enough  to  be  prefent  at  public 
Worfhip.  Once  I  called  the  People ;  but  fomething  pre- 
vented their  Coming.  At  laft,  finding  my  Impreflion  in- 
creafe  upon  me,  I  defired  their  Attendance  immediately. — 
They  came.  With  a  ftrong  A flurance  that  we  fhould  be  heard, 
C  2  we 


20  Mr.  Whitefield'5  journal 

we  prayed  that  the  Lord  would  turn  the  Wind,  that  we 
might  give  him  Thanks  in  the  great  Congregation;  and  alfa 
that  he  would  fend  fuch  to  us,  as  he  would  have  us  to  con- 
verfe  with,  and  who  might  (hew  us  a  Lodging.  Though 
the  Wind  was  a  Head  when  we  began  ;  yet  when  we  had 
done  pray  ng,  and  came  up  out  of  the  Cabbin,  it  was  quite  fair. 
With  a  gentle  Gale,  we  failed  moft  pleafantly  into  the  Har- 
bour ;  got  into  public  Wcrfliip  before  they  had  finiflicd  the 
Pfalms,  and  fat,  as  I  thought,  undifcovered.  After  Service 
v.'-as  over,  a  Gentleman  asked  me,  whether  my  Name  was 
not  IVh'itefield  ?  I  told  him  yes ;  he  then  defired  me  to  go  to 
his  Houfe,  and  he  would  take  Cre  to  provide  Lodgings  and 
NecefTaries  for  me  and  my  Fiends.  I  went,  filently  admir- 
ing God's  Goodnefs,  in  anfvvering  my  Prayer  fo  minutely. 
Several  Gentlemen  of  the  Town  foon  came  to  pay  their  Re- 
fpecls  to  me,  among  whom  was  one  Mr.  C — p^  an  aged 
DifTenting  ?*/Iinifter,  but  the  moft  venerable  Man  I  ever  faw 
in  my  Life.  He  look'd  like  a  good  old_  Puritan,  and  gave 
me  an  Idea  of  v/hat  Stamp  thofe  Men  were,  who  firft  fettled 
l<lew- Engl  and.  His  Countenance  was  very  heavenly  ;  he  re- 
joiced much  in  Spirit  at  the  Sight  of  me,  and  prayed  moft  af- 
fe<5lionately  for  a  Blefling  on  my  coming  to  Rhode-Ifiand.  "In 
the  Evening,  with  him  and  fome  more  Friends,  I  waited  on 
jyir.  H—n,  the  Minifler  of  tlie  Church  of  England,  and 
defired  theUfe  of  his  Pulpit.  At  firft  he  feemed  a  little  un- 
willing, being  defirous  to  know  "  what  extraordinary  Call 
*'  I  had  to  preach  on  Week  D^vs,  which  he  faid,  was  dif- 
*'  orderly  ?"  I  anfwered,  <'  St.  Paul  exhorted  Timothy  to  be 
*'  inftant  in  Seafon  and  out  of  Seafon :  That,  if  the  Orders 
'*  of  the  Church  vvere  rightly  complied  with,  our  Minifters 
•'  {hould  read  public  Prayers  twice  every  Day,  and  then  it 
"  would  not  be  diforderly,  at  fuch  Times  to  give  them  a  Ser- 
*'  mon.  As  to  an  extraordinary  Call,  I  claim'd  none  other- 
*'  wife  than  upon  the  Apoftle's  Lijuntftion,  as  we  have  Oppor- 
**  tun'tty  let  m  do  Good  wito  all  Men.""  He  ftill  held  out, 
and  did  not  give  any  pofitive  Anfwcr  ;  but,  at  laft,  after  he 
had  withdrawn  and  confulted  with  the  Gentlemen,  he  faid, 
"  If  my  preaching  would  promote  the  Glory  of  God,  and 
*'  Good  of  Souls,  I  was  welcome  to  his  CJiurch,  as  often  as 
*'  I  would,  during  my  Stay  in  Town."  We  then  agreed 
to  piake  Ufe  of  it  at  ten  in  the  Morning,  and  three  in  the 
Afternoon.  After  this  I  went  to  wait  on  the  Governor, 
who  feemed  to  be  a  very  plain  Man,  and  had  a  very  plain 
Ifpiifey  ^jjiji^  much  pleafcd  me,  V>y  Profellion,  I  think, 
_  '  '. " 2  he 


at  NEWPOnr,  &c.  21 

he  is  a  feventh  Day  Baptift ;  he  is  a  Man  of  good  Report,  as 
to  his  Conduft  and  Dealing  with  the  World.     After  a  fhort 

Vifit  I  returned  to   take  Leave  of  Mr.  H n,  and  to  fetch 

my  Friends,  who  were  at  his  Houfe,  waiting    for  me.     We 

then  went  to  the  Houfe  of  Mr.  B e,  who  firlt  fpake   to 

me,  when  coming  out  of  the  Church.  The  Houfe  was  foon 
filled  with  Company.  I  expounded  and  prayed  for  about  an 
Hour,  and  then  retired  to  a  Lodging,  the  Lord  in  his  good 
Providence  had  provided  for  me.  The  blefled  Jefus  was 
pleafed  fvveetly  to  manifeft  himfelf  to  my  Soul.  A  Confi- 
deration  of  his  diftinguiftiing  ^repeated  Mercies  quite  melted  me 
down,  and  I  called  upon  all  that  was  within  me  to  praife  his 
Holy  Name.  O  Lord^  in  the  Night  Seafon,  let  me  arife  and 
give  Tloanh  unto  thee,  and  let  my  talking  he  of  thy  loving 
Kindnefs  and  tender  Mercies  all  the  Day  long  ! 

Monday,  September  15.  Breakfafted  this  Morning  with 
old  Mr.  Clap,  and  was  much  edified  by  his  Converfation. 
I  could  not  but  thinjc  whilft  at  his  Table,  that  I  was  fitting 
with  one  of  the  Patriarchs.  He  is  full  of  Days,  a  Batchelor, 
and  has  been  Minifter  of  a  Congregation  in  Rhode- IJland  \x^~ 
wards  of  40  Years.  People  of  all  Denominations,  I  find, 
refpedl  him.  He  abounds  in  good  Works,  gives  all  away, 
and  is  wonderfully  tender  of  little  Children  ;  many  of  diffe- 
rent Perfuafions  come  to  be  inftrudled  by  him.  Whenever  he 
dies,  I  am  perfuaded,  with  good  old  Simeon,  he  will  be  en- 
abled to  fay,  Lord,  now  lettcji  thou  thy  Servant  depart  in 
Peace.  At  lO  in  the  Morning,  and  3  in  the  Afternoon,  ac- 
cording to  Appointment,  I  read  Prayers  and  preached  in  the 
Church:  'Tis  very  commodious,  and  I  believe  will  contain 
3000  People.     It  was  more  than   filled  in  the  Afternoon. — 

Perfons  of  all   Denominations  attended God   affifted   me 

much.  I  obferved  Numbers  affetfled,  and  had  great  Reafon 
to  believe  the  Word  of  the  Lord  had  been  {harper  than  a  two- 
edged  Sword  in  fome  of  the  Hearers  Souls.  After  Evening 
Service  I  received  the  following  Lettef. 

Newport  in  Rhode-TJland,  September  15,  1740. 
Reverend  Sir,  and  beloved  Brother, 
"  A  Lthough  mine  Eyes  never  faw  your  Face  before  this 
"  '^^  Day,  yet  my  Heart  and  Soul  have  been  united  to 
*'  you  in  Love,  by  the  Bond  of  the  Spirit.  I  have  longed 
"  and  expeiled  to  fee  you  for  many  Months  paft:  Blefled 
*^  be  God,  mine  Eyes  have  feen  the  joyful  Days!  I  truft, 
V''  through  Grace,  I  have  fome  Things  to  communicate  to 

*'  you 


t2  Mr.  White  field'/  Jciirfial 

*'  you,  that  will  make  you  Heart  glad.  I  fhall  omit  writ- 
"  ing  any  Thing ;  and  only  hereby  prefent  my  hearty 
**  Love,  and  lee  you  know,  that  I  am  waiting  now  at  the 
*'  Poft  of  your  Door  for  Admiflion  :  Though  I  am  unwor- 
*'  thy,  my  Lord  is  worthy,  in  whofe  Name,  I  truft,  I 
*'  come." 

/  am  your  unworthy  Brother^ 

Jonathan  B r. 

On  reading  it,  I  could  not  but  think  this  was  one  of  thofe 
young  Minifters,  whom  God  had  lately  made  TJfe  of,  in  fuch  a 
remarkable  Manner,  at  the  Eaft  End  of  Long  IJIand.  I  fent 
for  him,  and  found  he  was  the  Man.  My  Heart  rejoiced.  We 
walked  out,  and  took  fweet  Counfel  together  ;  and  amongft 
other  Things,  he  told  me,  that  he  came  to  Rhode- IJIand  un- 
der a  full  Conviction,  that  he  fhould  fee  me  there,  and  had 
been  waiting  for  me  about  a  Week  ;  for,  he  faid,  thefe 
Words  were  mightily  imprefied  upon  his  Heart,  h  not  Aa- 
ron the  Levite  thy  Brother  ?  I  know  that  he  can  /peak  well. 
And  alfo  Behold  he  cometh  forth  to  meet  thee  \  and  when  he 
feeth  thee.,  he  will  be  glad  in  his  Heart.  And  /  tvill  be  with 
thy  Mouth  and  with  his  Mouthy  and  will  teach  you  ivhat  ye 
Jhall  do.  What  rendered  this  more  remarkable  was,  I  had 
no  Intention  of  faih'ng  mXo  Rhode  IJIand^  till  about  3  Days 
before  I  left  Carolina ;  and  alfo  I  had  a  great  Defire  to  put 
in,  if  I  could,  if  the  Eaft  End  of  Long-I/land^  to  fee  this 
very  Perfon,  whom  the  great  God  now  brought  unto  me — 
Lord.,  accept  our  Thanks,  fanSlify  our  Meeting.,  and  teach  us 
both  what  we  Jhall  do  for  thy  own  Najnes  Sake  !  After  a  long 
Conference,  we  took  Leave  of  each  other  for  the  prefent,  but 
agreed,  that  we  fhould  now  be  Companions  in  Travel,  till 
the  Lord  fhould  make  our  Way  more  plain.  In  the  Eve- 
ning I  went  to  venerable  Mr.  Clap's,  and  exhorted  and  pray- 
ed with  a  great  Multitude,  who  not  only  crowded  into 
the  Houfe,  but  thronged  every  Way  about  it.  The  dear 
old  Man  rejoiced  to  fee  the  Things  which  he  faw  ;  and 
after  my  Exhortation  was  over,  difmifled  me  with  his  Blef- 
fing.  Lord  'J ejus,  do  thou  fay  Amen  to  it.  Even  Jo  Lord 
fefus.  Amen  and  Amen. 

Tuefday,  September  lb.  Perceived  myfelf  a  little  low  in  the 
Morning,  but  was  enabled  to  read  Prayers  and  preach  with 
much  Flame,  Clearnefs  and  Power  to  ftill  greater  Audito- 
ries than  Yefterday.  It  being  Aflembly  Time,  the  Gentle- 
men adjourned  in  order  to  attend  the  Service,  and  feveral 

In- 


at  NEWPORT,  ^c.  23 

Invitations  were  given  me  to  come  to  other  adjacent  Places. 
The  People  were  exceedingly  attentive.  Tears  trickled  down 
their  Checks  ;  and  they  fo  far  prevailed  with  me  by  their  Im- 
portunity, that,  by  the  divine  Permiflion,  I  promifed  to  call 
upon  them  in  my  Return  from  Bojhn.  When  I  came  Home 
to  my  Lodgings,  the  Woman  of  the  Houfe  faluted  me  with 
*'  BiefTed  art  thou  of  the  Lord."  I  looked  round  to  fee  the 
Reafon  of  fuch  a  Salutation,  and  on  the  Couch  there  lay  a 
young  Woman  under  great  Diftrefs  of  Soul.  After  a  little 
Converfation,  I  found  Ihe  had  a  gracious  Difcovery  of  the 
Lord  Jefus  made  to  her  Soul,  when  I  was  fpeaking  thefe 
Words,  Come  fee  a  Man  that  told  me  all  Things  that  ever  I 
did.  She  told  me  *'  She  had  often  grieved  the  Spirit  of  God, 
*'  but  now  {he  believed  the  Lord  was  calling  her  Home  ef- 
"  fedually.  The  Word,  added  fhe,  came  with  fuch  Power, 
*'  that  I  was  obliged  to  go  out  of  the  Church,  otheru^ife 
*'  I  muft  have  difturbed  the  Congregation.  When. I  came 
*'  from  Home,  contrary  to  my  Parents  Inclinations,  I  in- 
*'  fifted,  I  knew  not  why,  on  Itaying  at  Newport  6  Weeks. 
"  They  would  have  me  flay  only  a  Month,  but  at  laft  con- 
"  fented  that  I  fhould  (lay  my  own  Time.  To  Morrow, 
*'  fays  he,  is  the  lalt  Day  of  the  fix  Weeks,  and  Oh  the 
*'  Goodnefs  of  God  in  fending  you  juft  now,  before  my 
*'  Time  was  out."  Or  Words  to  that  Effedl. — Afterwards 
one  or  two  more  came  under  the  like  CIrcumftances,  crying 
out  in  the  Bitternefs  of  their  Souls,  after  the  Lord  Jefus. — 
I  prayed  with  each  of  them,  and  exhorted  them  not  to  reft 
till  they  found  Refl  in  Jefus  Chrift.  In  the  Evening  I  went, 
as  I  thought  privately,  to  a  Friend's  Houfe.  But  the  Peo- 
ple were  i'o  eager  after  the  Word,  that  in  a  fliort  Time,  I 
believe,  more  than  a  thoufand  were  before  the  Door,  befides 
thofe  that  were  within,  and  filled  every  Room  in  the  Houfe. 
I  therefore  flood  upon  the  Threfhold,  and  fpake  for, near  an 
Hour  on  thefe  Words,  Ble/fed  are  they  that  hunger  and  thirjl 
after  Right eoufnefs,  for  they  Jhall  be  filled.  Blefled  be  God, 
it  was  a  very  folemn  Meeting.  Being  Night,  I  could  not 
fee  how  the  Hearers  were  afFeded,  but  the  Lord  aflifted 
me  in  fpeaking.  Glory  be  to  his  great  Na?ne.  Before  I  re- 
tired to  Bed,  I  went  to  take  my  Leave  of  Mr.  H — «, 
and  had  fome  clofe  Talk  with  him  about  the  New-Birth. 
Tl:e  Lord  gave  hirn  an  experimental  Knowledge  of  it.  He 
was  very  civil,'  and  would  have  had  me  flayed  with 
him  longer ;   but  being    to   go   a   Journey  on  the   Morrow, 

'alftfer  |?e  had  cbnverfed  near  half  an  Hour,  1  took  my  Leave. 

-V  ■  ....■-  ^       ..    ..,  ^^ 


24  ^f"'  Whit efield'j  Journal 

At  my  Return  to  my  Lodgings,  good  old  Mr.  Clap  went 
with  me  into  a  private  Room,  and  gave  me  fomething  for  my 
Orphans,  and  fpake  many  affe^ionate  Things  to  me.  Al- 
tho'  very  old,  yet  he  followed  me  from  one  End  of  the  Town 
to  another  ;  fo  that  the  People  faid  I  had  made  old  Mr.  Clap 
young  again.  Oh  what  a  Crown  of  Glory  is  a  hoary  Head, 
when  found  in  the  Way  of  Righteoufnefs.  He  was  exceed- 
ingly defirous  of  my  coming  to  Rhode- IJIand  zg?\n,  which  I 
promifed  to  do  by  divme  Permiilion  :  For  Rhode-ljland  feems 
to  be  a  Place  where  much  good  may  be  done.  They  are  very 
plain  People  for  the  generality  ;  tho'  I  obfcrved  there  were 
fomc  foolifli  Virgins  at  Church,  covered  all  over  with  the 
Pride  of  Life.  I  find  they  are  fadly  divided  amongft  them- 
felves  as  to  outward  Things.  I  think  there  are  no  lefs  than 
four  different  Congregations  of  Baptifts,  two  of  the  Lidepen,- 
dent,  and  one  of  the  Qt^iakers  Perfuafion.  Dean  Bcrkley^s 
Name  is  had  in  much  Rcfpcil  among  them.  The  efta,- 
blifhed  Church  is  in  excellent  Order  as  to  Externals ;  but 
many  of  the  Head-Members  I  foon  found  were  exceeding 
great  Bigots,  They  feem'd  very  fearful  left  I  fhould  preach 
in  Mr.  Clap's  Meeting-Houfc,  and  gloried  much  in  my 
bringing  the  good  old  Man  to  Church.  Nor  is  there  lefs 
Bigotry  amongft  thofe  of  other  Commuriions.  All,  I  fear, 
place  the  Kingdom  of  God  too  much  in  Meats  and  Drinks, 
and  have  an  ill  Name  abroad  for  running  of  Goo  Is.  One 
Day,  when  I  faid  in  my  Sermon,  *'  What  will  become  of 
*'  you,  who  cheat  the  King  of  his  Taxes?"  The  whole 
Congregation  feem'd  furprized,  and  look'd  on  one  another, 
as  tho'  they  ihould  fay,  IVe  are  guilty.  Lord  "Jcfus^  give 
them  to  know  thee,  and  the  Power  of  thy  Refurrenion,  and 
teach  them  to  live  foberly^  righteo'vjly  and  godly  in  this  prefent 
florid.     Amen  and  Amen. 

"Newport  and  BriJhL 

Wednefday^  Septe?nber  i-j.  Ldt  Newport  in  Rhode- 1/1(7 nd 
about  nine  in  the  Morning,  and  reached  Brijlol,  a  Town 
twelve  Miles  diitant,  about  Noon.  Several  Friends  from 
Rhode- I/land  ;iQCom^z-n\cA-  me,  and  before  we  came  to  the 
Town,  a  Diffenting  Mmifter  (as  I  found  afterwards)  met 
me,  and  in  the  Name  of  the  Cuurt,  which  was  then  fitting 
at  Brijiol,  invited  me  and  my  Friends  to  dine  with  them, 
and  alfo  defired  me  to  give  them  a  Sermon.  I  complied. 
T'he  Genrlemen  received  us  with  much  Civility  j  and,  af- 
\         ■  ^  ter 


(It  NEWPORT,  &Co  25 

ter  Dinner,  I  preached  in  the  Meeting- Houfe  to  more  Peo- 
ple than  might  be  expe(51ed  on  fuch  fudden  Notice.  My 
Heart  was  much  fhut  up  in  the  Exercife,  I  felt,  I  law  but 
little  Power.  However,  the  Gentlemen  feem'd  very  thank- 
ful. I  took  my  Leave  about  four  in  the  Afternoon,  and 
lay  at  an  Inn  about  ten  Miles  farther  on  the  Road.  Here 
the  Lord  gave  me  a  Spirit  of  Prayer.  I  wreflled  with  God 
in  behalf  of  myfelf  and  Friends ;  fupped  comfortably  ;  fung 
a  Hymn,  and  went  to  Reft.  Thanks  be  to  God  for  his  un~ 
Jpeakable  Mercies  ! 

Thurfday^  September  18.  Rofe  a  long  while  before  Day^ 
and  fet  out  as  foon  as  it  was  Light.  Breakfafted  at  aMiniiler's 
Houfe  on  the  Road.  Found  People  were  apprized  of  my 
Coming,  and  were  follicitous  for  my  Preaching  ;  but  being 
refolved,  under  God,  if  pofiiblc,  to  reach  Bojlon,  we  travel- 
Jed  on  for  near  fifty  Miles,  and  came  to  Bojion  about  eight 
in  the  Evening.  When  we  were  v/ithln  fuur  Miles  of  the 
City,  the  Governor's  Son,  fcveral  other  Gentlemen,  and 
one  or  two  Minifters  waited  at  a  Gentleman's  Houfe  to  give 
me  the  Meeting.  They  received  me  with  great  Gladnefs, 
and  told  me  many  more  would  have  come,  had  not  a  large 
Funeral  been  in  the  Town,  or  if  there  had  been  more  certain 
Notice  of  my  arriving.  This  rejoiced  me  ;  for  I  think  I 
can  ftand  any  Thing  better  than  this.  Is  favours  too  much 
of  human  Grandeur  :  But  I  muft  be  tried  every  Way.  The 
Lord  be  my  Helper.  After  flopping  a  while,  we  went  to- 
gether in  Company  to  Bo/Ion,  to  the  Houfe  of  one  Mr.  5-^ 
Brother  in  Law  to  the  Reverend  Dr.  Coleman,  who  longfince 
had  fent  mean  Invitation.  Seven'.l  Minifters  and  other  Gen- 
tlemen came  to  pay  their  Refpeds.  My  Heart  was  but  low, 
and  m.y  Body  w^eak ;  but,  at  the  Rcqueft  of  one  of  the  Mi- 
nifters, I  gave  Thanks  to  our  gracious  God,  for  bringing  me 
in  Safety,  and  prayed  that  my  Co  ning  might  be  in  the  Ful- 
nefs  of  the  Bleffing  of  the  Gofpe!  of  Peace.  We  then  parted. 
I  eat  a  little  Supper,  and  then  retired,  befeeching  the  Lord  to 
raife  my  Heart,  and  make  his  Power  known  in  the  Hearts 
of  his  People.     Even  y3,  Lord  Jefus,  Amen  and  Amtn. 

BOSTON. 

Friday,  September  19.  Slept  pretty  vt'cll,  c:nd  in  the  Morning 

perceived  frelh  Emanations  of  the  divine  Light  break  in  upon 

•M\([  refrefti  my  Soul.     Was  viijted  by  feverai  Gentlemen  and 

Minifttrs,  and  v.'ent  to  the  Governor's  with  Efquire  IVillari^ 

D  Secreia  y 


26  Mr,  Whitef^eld*^  "Journal 

Secretary  of  the  Province,  a  Man  fearing  God,  and  with 
•whom  (tho'  before  unknown  in  Perfon)  I  have  correfponded 
fome  Time.  The  Governor  received  me  with  the  utmoft 
Refpeft :  He  feemed  to  favour  the  Things  which  were  of 
God,  and  defired  me  to  fee  him  as  often  as  I  could.  At 
eleven  I  went  to  public  Worfliip  at  the  Church  of  England^ 
and  afterwards  went  home  with  the  CommifTary,  who  read 
Prayers.  He  received  me  very  courteoufly,  and  it  being  a 
Day  whereon  the  Clergy  of  the  eftablifhed  Church  met,  I  had 
an  Opportunity  of  convcrfmg  with  five  of  them  together.  I 
think,  one  of  tliem  began  with  me  for  calling  "  T'hat  Ten- 
*<  nent  and  his  Brethren  faithful  Miniflers  of  Jefus  Chrift." 
1  anfwered,  "  I  believed  they  were."  They  then  queftion- 
ed  me- about  "  the  Validity  of  the  Presbyterian  Ordina- 
*'  tion."  I  replied,  "  I  believed  it  was  valid."  They  then 
urged  againft  me  a  Paffage  in  my  firft  Journal,  where  I  faid, 
*'  That  a  Baptift  Minifler  at  Deal  did  not  give  a  fatisfadory 
"  Anfwer  concerning  his  Miffion."^  I  anfwered,  "  Perhaps 
*'  my  Sentiments  v/ere  altered."  *'  And  is  Mr.  IVeJley  al- 
*'  ter'd,  faid  one,  in  his  Sentiments?  For  he  was  very  flre- 
*'  nuous  for  the  Church,  and  rigorous  againft  all  other  Forms 
■**  of  Government  when  he  v/as  at  Bojion.'*  I  anfwered, 
^'  He  was  then  a  great  Bigot,  but  God  has  fmce  enlarged 
•**  his  Heart,  and  1  believed  he  is  now  like-minded  with 
''*  me  in  this  Particular."  I  then  urged,  *'  That  a  Catho- 
""  lie  Spirit  was  beft,  and  that  a  Baptift-Minifter  had  com- 
*'  municated  lately  with  me  at  Savannah."  And,  "  I  fup- 
*'  pole,  fay5  another,  you  would  do  him  as  good  a  Turn, 
♦'  and  would  communicate  with  him."  I  anfwered,  *' Yes." 
1  then  urged,  "  Tliat  it  was  beft  to  preach  up  the  New  Birth, 
*'  and  tlie  Pov/er  of  Godlinefs,  and  not  toinlift  fo  much  up- 
■*'  on  t lie  Form  :  For  People  would  never  be  brought  to  one 
'*'  Mind  as  to  that  ;  nor  did  Jefus  Chrift  ever  intend  it." 
■*'' Yes,  but,  fays  Dodor  Cutler,  he  did."  "  How  do  you 
'•*'  prove'  it."  Why,  fays  he,  "  Chrifl  prayed  That  all 
*^^'  might  be  one^  even  as  thoii  Father  and  I  are  one."  I  re- 
plied,- "••That  was  fpoken  of  the  inward  Union  of  the  Souls 
*'  of  Believers  with  Jefus  Chrift,  and  not  of  the  outward 
♦'  Church."  «'  Th.U  cannot  be,  fays  Dr.  Cutler.,  for  how 
"  then  could  rt  be  faid,  That  the  IForld  might  knotu  that  thou 
'^^.  ha/i-fenir  me?"  He  then  (taking  it  for  granted  that  the 
Church  of  England  was  the  only  true  Apoftolical  Church) 
drew  a  Parallel  between  the  yeiuijli  and  our  Church,  urging 
how  God  retjuifed  all  Things  to  be  made  according  to  the 
\    ■  1      .V  '  Pattern 


at    B  0  S  T  0  N.  27 

Pattern  given  in  the  Mount.  I  anfwered,  "  That  before 
*'  the  ParalJel  could  be  juft,  it  muft  be  proved,  that  every 
*^  Thing  enjoin'd  in  our  Church  vi'as  as  much  of  a  divine 
y  Inftitution  as  any  Rite  or  Ceremony    under  the  Jewijh 

Y  Difpenfation."  I  added  further,  *'  That  I  hw  regene- 
^  rate  Souls  among  the  Baptifts,  among    the   Fresh)  terians, 

Y  among  the  Independents,  and  among  the  Church- Folks, 
>'  all  Children  of  God,  and  yet  all  born  again  in  a  different 
*'  Way  of  Worfhip,  and  who  can  tell  which  is  moft  evan- 
*'  gelical  ?"  "  What,  fays  the  Commiflary,  can  you  fee 
**  Regeneration  with  your  Eyes  ?"  or  fomething  to  that 
Purpofe.  Soon  after  we  began  to  talk  of  the  Righteoufnefs 
of  Chrift,  and  the  Commiflary  faid,  "  Chrift  was  to  make 
*'  up  the  Defeds  of  our  Righteoufnefs."  I  asked  him, 
**  Whether  Converfion  was  not  inftantaneous?"  He  was 
unwilling  to  confefs  it,  but  he  having  juft  before  baptized 
an  Infant  at  public  Worfhip,  I  asked  him,  "  Whether  he 
"  believed  that  very  Inftant  in  which  he  fprinkled  the  Child 
"with  Water,  the  Holy  Ghoft  fell   upon  the  Child?"  He 

„^'  anfwered,  '*  Yes,"  "  Then,  faid  I,  according  to  your 
'"  own  Principles,  Regeneration  is  inftantaneous,  and  ftnce  you 
"  will  judge  of  the  New  Birth  by  the  Fruits,  pray 
"  watch  that  Child,  and  fee  if  it  brings  forth  the  Fruits  of 
"  the  Spirit."  I  alfo  faid,  "  That  if  every  Child  was  really 
"  born  again  in  Baptifm,  then  every  baptized  Infant  would 
"  befaved."  "  And  fo  they  are,"  fays  Dr.  CwZ/^r.  "  Hov/ 
"  do  you  prove  that?"  Why,  fays  he,  "  The  Rubrick 
"  fays,  that  all  Infants  dying  after  Baptifm  before  they  have 
*'  committed  adlual  Sin,  are  undoubtedly  (iived."  I  asked, 
''  What  Text  of  Scripture  there  was  to  prove  it  ?"  **  Here, 
"  fays  he,  (holding  a  Prayer-Book  in  his  Hand)  the  Church 
*'  fays  fo."  We  then  juft  hinted  at  Prcdeftination.  I  faid, 
"  I  fubfcribed  to  the  feventeenth  Article  of  the  Church  in 
"  its  literal  Senfe  with  all  my  Heart."  We  then  talked  a 
little  about  falling  away  finally  from  Grace,  I  faid,  "  A 
"  true  Child  of  God,  tho'  he  might  fall  foully,  yet  could  ne- 
*'  ver  fall  finally."  But,  fays  he,  the  Article  fays,  "  Men 
*'  may  fall  away  from  Grace  given."  But  then,  faid  I,  ob- 
,,ferve  what  follows,  "  And  by  the  Grace  of  God  they  may 
"J^*  rife  again."  Several  other  Things  of  lefs  Confequence  paf- 
fed  between  us.  But,  being  engaged  to  dine  at  my  Lodging, 
.  and  finding  how  inconfiftent  they  '.vere,  I  took  my  Leave, 
■  refolving  they  fhould  not  have  an  Opportunity  of  denying  me 
the  Ufe  of  their  Pulpits:  However,  they  treated  me  with 
D  2-  more 


ZS:         Mr,  White*' iIeldV  ydurnal 

more  Civility  than  any  Set  of  our  own  Clergymen  have  done 
for  a  long  While,  The  CommiiTary  very  kindly  urged  me 
to  dine  with  them  :  But  being  pre-engaged,  1  went  to  my 
Lodging,  and,  in  the  Afternoon,  preached  to  about  4000 
People  in  Dr.  Colman's  Meeting  Houfe.;  and,  as  I  after- 
wards was  told  by  fevcral,  with  great  Succefs.  I  exhorted 
and  prayed  with  many  that  came  to  my  Lodgings,  and  in- 
wardly rejoiced  at  the  Prcfpe6l  there  was  of  bringing  many 
Souls  in  Bofion^  to  the  faving  Knowledge  of  the  Lord  Jefus 
Chrift.  Grant  this,  O  Father^  for  thy  dear  Son's  Sake. 
yfmen. 

Satunhy,  September  20.  Perceived  myfelf  dill  growing 
more  and  more  comfortable  both  in  Body  and  Soul.  Was 
ivveetly  refrefiied  with  feveral  Packets  of  Letters  fent  to  me 
from  different  Parts  in  England  and  America,  giving  me  an 
Account  of  the  Succefs  of  the  Gofpel.  Yet  I  was  a  little 
caft  down  to  find  fome  EngUjh  PViends  had  thrown  afide  the 
Ufe  of  Means,  and  o'hers  were  difputing  for  jInUfs  Per- 
fection and  Univerfal  Redemption.  I  know  no  fuch  Things 
alTerted  in  the  Gofpel,  if  explained  aright.  Lord^  do  thou 
caufe  even  this  to  lucrk  for  Gocd^  and  give  jne  Grace  to  op- 
pofi  fuch  Errors^  ivithout  Refpc£l  ofPerfons,  but  with  Meeknefsy 
Humility  and  Love,    Jnun^  Lord  Jefus,   Amen  and  Amen. 

Preached  in  the  Morning  with  much  Freedom  and  Power 
to  about  6000  Hearers  in  the  Reverend  Dr.  Sezvars  Meeting- 
Houfe,  and  afterwards  on  the  Common  to  about  8coo,  and 
again  at  Night  to  a  thronged  Company  at  my  Lodging;;.  I 
fpent  the  Remainder  of  the  Evening  with  a  few  choice 
Friends,  in  preparing  for  the  Sabbath.  O  that  zue  may  be 
always  in  the  Spirit  on  a  Lord's  Day. 

'  Su>!day,  September  21.  Went  in  the  Morning,  and  heard 
Dr.  Cohian  preach.  Dined  with  his  Colleague  the  Reverend 
Mr.  Cscper.  Preached  in  the  Afternoon  to  a  thronged  Au- 
ditory with  great  and  vifible  Efi^df  at  the  Reverend  Mr.  Fo^\'- 
craft's  Meeting.  Immediately  after,  in  the  Common  to  ar 
bout  15000,  and  again  at  my  Lodgings,  as  ufual,  to  a  great- 
.  er  Company  than  before.  Some  afterwards  came  up  into  my 
Room.  I  felt  much  of  the  divine  Prefence  in  my  own  Soul, 
and  tho'  hoarfe,  was  enabled  to  fpcak  with  much  Power, 
and  could  have  fpoke,  I  believe,  till  Midnight.  To  fee 
People  ready  to  hear,  makes  me  forget  myklf.  Oh  that 
it  may  he  my  Sleep,  JHy  Meat  and  Drink  to  da  the -frill  of 
viy  heavenly  Father  !  Oh  that  all  who  prefs  to  hear  the  JVorel, 
imay  tak»  thi  Eingdm  of  God  by,  Fo-tce.  Amen  sad/Lnen, 
'■  "'  Mondayy 


at    NEW-ENGLAND.  29 

Monday^  September  22.  Preached  this  Aborning  at  the  Re- 
verend Mr.  Webb's  Meeting-Houfe  to  6000  Hearers  in 
the  Houfe,  befides  great  Numbers  ftanding  about  the  Doors. 
The  Prefence  of  the  Lord  was  amongft  them.  Look  where 
I  would  around  me,  vilible  Impreflions  were  made  upon  the 
Auditory.  Moft  wept  for  a  confiderable  Time ;  and  fome- 
time  after  I  received  a  Letter  wherein  were  thefe  Words  : 

"  But  what  I  muft  give  the  Preference  to  was  that  graqi- 
^'  ous  Seafon  at  the  New  North  the  Monday  f:jllowi;:ig,  v/here 
*.*-  there  was  more  of  the  Prefence  of  God  through  the  whole 
*'  Vifitation  than  ever  I  had  known  at  one  Time  through 
**  the  wnole  Courfe  of  my  Life.  Juftly  might  it  have  been 
^'  faid  of  that  Place,  it  was  no  other  than  the  Houfe  of  God 
**  and  the  Gate  of  Heaven  !  O  how  dreadful  was  the  Place  ! 
^<  and  yet  how  delightful  !  The  Lord  Jefus  feemed  to  be 
*'  vifibly  walking  in  that  his  golden  Candleftick,  to  try 
*^  feme  of  the  many  Thoufands  that  were  then  prefent.  But 
^<'  oh  !  how  few  were  prepared  for  fo  holy  an  Inquifition.  I 
*'*  am  fure  I  know  none  who  could  not  but  be  humble  at  the 
*■•  Thoughts  of  it.  x^nd  indeed  who  could  help  crying  our, 
^^  Wo  is  ms  !  for  I  am  undone,  becaufe  I  am  a  Man  of  un- 
J*.  clean  Lips,  for  mine  Eyes  have  feen  the  King,  the  Lord 
**.  of  Hofts.  Indeed  my  own  Soul  was  fo  deeply  abafed  and 
**'' overwhelmed  with  fuch  unufual  Meltings  that  I  cou'd  have 
■^'f-  been  glad  of  feme  private  Corner  in  that  Houfe  to  pour  out 
^'  my  Soul,  without  DHiurbance  to  the  Audience.  The 
*'  Spirit  of  God,  indeed,  feemM  to  be  moving  upon  the  Face 
*'  of  the  Waters  at  that  Time,  and  who  knows,  but  that 
*'  to  a  great  many  Souls,  God  was  pleafed  to  fay,  Let  there 
**   be  Lights  and  there  was  Light" 

l''^-'In  the  Afternoon  I  went  to  preach  at  the  Reverend  Mr. 
'G^(?^-^//'/s  Meeting-Houfe:  But  God  was  pleafed  to  humble 
us  by  a  very  awful  Providence;  For  the  Meeting-Houfe  be- 
ing filled  with  People,  tho'  there  was  no  real  Danger ;  yet 
on  a  Sudden  all  the  People  were  in  an  Uproar,  and  fo  unac- 
countably furprized,  that  fome  threw  themfelvcs  out  of  the 
Window,  ethers  threv/  themfelves  cut  of  the  Gallery,  and 
others  trampled  upon  one  another  ;  fo  that  five  were  actual- 
ly killed,  and  others  dangeroully  wounded.  I  happened  to 
come  in  the  Midft  of  the  Uproar,  and  faw  two  or  three  lying 
on  the  Ground  in  a  pitiable  Condition.  God  was  pleafed  to 
give  me  Prefence  of  Mind ;  fo  that  I  gave  Notice  I  would 
immediately  preach  upon  the  Common.  The  Weather  was 
wet,  but  many  Thoufands  followed  in  the  Field,  to  whom 

I  preached 


^3'  M".  WhitefieldV  Journal 

I  preached  from  thefe  Words,  Go  out  into  the  Highways  and 
Hedges,  and  compel  thefti  to  come  in.  I  endeavoured,  as  God 
enabled  me,  to  improve  what  had  befallen  us ;  and  tho'  Satan 
in  this  bruifed  our  Heel,  yet  I  doubt  not  but  even  this  will 
be  a  Means  of  bruifing  his  accurfed  Head.  Lordy  thy  Judg^ 
ments  are  like  the  great  Deep.  Thy  Footjleps  are  not  known, 
Juji  and  holy  art  thou,  O  King  of  Saints  ! 

In  the  Evening  perceived  myfelf  weak  in  Body,  fo  that  I 
could  not  fay  much  at  the  Houfe  where  I  fupped  ;  but  God, 
by  his  bleffed  Spirit,  greatly  refreflied  and  comforted  my  Soul. 
Bleffed  be  God,  I  find  what  our  Saviour  fays  exceeding  true: 
He  that  believeth  on  me,  as  the  Scripture  hath  fpoken,  cut  of 
his  Belly  Jh  all  flow  Rivers  of  living  Waters.  I  drank  of  God's 
Pleafiire  as  out  of  a  River.  Oh  that  all  were  made  Partakers 
of  this  living  Water,  they  zvould  never  thirfl  after  the  fenfual 
Pleafures  of  this  ivicked  World.  . 

Tuefday,  September  23.  Went  this  Morning  with  Dr, 
Colman  and  the  Secretary  to  Roxbury,  three  Miles  from  Boflon, 
to  fee  the  Rev.  Mr.  Walter,  a  good  old  Puritan,  who,  with 
his  PredecefTor  the  Rev.  Mr.  Elliot,  commonly  called  the  A- 
poftle  of  the  Indians,  but  now  with  God,  has  been  Paflor 
of  that  Congregation  106  Years,  I  had  but  little  Converfa- 
tion  with  him,  my  Stay  being  very  fhort,  but  I  remember 
he  told  me,  "  He  was  glad  to  hear  I  faid  Man  was  half  a 
*'  Devil  and  half  a  Beaft."  The  more  People  drink  into 
God's  Spirit,  the  more,  I  find,  they  arc  inclined  to  dehafe 
human  Nature. 

About  eleven  we  returned,  and  I  preached  in  the  Reve- 
rend Mr.  Gee'?,  Meeting- Houfe,  but  not  to  a  very  crowded 
Auditory,  bccaufe  the  People  were  in  doubt  where  I  would 
preach.  Dined  at  the  Secretary's  ;  Preached  in  the  After- 
noon to  a  thronged  Congregation  ;  and  exhorted  and  prayed 
as  ufual  at  my  own  Lodgings,  at  neither  Place  without  fome 
Manifeftations  of  a  divine  Power  accompanying  the  Word. 
Lord  let  thy  Prefence  always  follow  me,  or  otherwife  I  Jhall 
he  but  as  a  founding  Brafs  or  a  tinkling  Cymbal. 

Wednefday,  September  Q.\.  Went  this  Morning  to  fee  and 
■preach  itCa?nbridge,  the  chief  College  for  training  up  the  Sons 
of  the  Prophets  in  all  New-England.  It  has  one  Prefl- 
dent,  I  think  four  Tutors,  and  about  a  hundred  Students. 
It  is  fcarce  as  big  as  one  of  our  lealt  Colleges  in  Oxford, 
and  as  far  I  oauld  gather  from  fonie  who  well  knew  the 
JState  of  it,  not  far  fuperior"  to  our  Univerfities  in  Piety  and 
true  Godlihefs."  Tutors  negtedl  "to  pray  with  and  examine 
-  -  the 


at   NEIi'-ENGLAND.  31 

the  Hearts  of  their  Pupils.  Difcipline  is  at  at  too  low  an  Ebb. 
Bad  Books  are  become  fafhionable  among  them.  Tillotfon 
and  Clarke  are  read  inftead  of  Sheppard,  Stoddard^  and  fuch 
like  evangelical  Writers  ;  and  therefore  I  chofe  to  preach  on 
thefe  Words.  IFe  are  not  as  jnany  who  corrupt  ths  Word  of 
God.  And  in  the  Conclufion  of  my  Sermon,  I  made  a  clofe 
Application  to  Tutors  and  Students.  A  great  Number  of 
neighbouring  Miniflers  attended,  as  indeed  they  do  at  all  o- 
ther  Times ;  and  God  gave  me  great  Boldnefs  and  Freedom 
of  Speech.  The  Prefident  of  the  College  and  Minifter  of 
the  Parifli  treated  me  very  civilly.  In  the  Afternoon  I  preach- 
ed again  in  the  Court,  without  any  particular  Application  to 
the  Students.  I  believe  there  vi^ere  about  7000  Hearers.  The 
Holy  Spirit  melted  many  Hearts.  The  Word  was  attended 
with  manifeft  Power :  And  a  Minifter  foon  after  wrote  mc 
Word,  *'  That  he  believed  one  of  his  Daughters  was  faving- 
*'  ly  wrought  upon  at  that  Time."  Lord.,  add  daily  to  thy 
Church  fuch  as  Jhall  be  faved  I  Paid  my  Refpec^s  to  the 
Lieutenant  Governor,  who  lives  at  Cambridge^  and  returned 
in  the  Evening  to  Bofion.,  and  prayed  with  and  exhorted  ma^ 
ny  People  who  were  waiting  round  the  Door  for  a  fpirituai 
Morfel.  I  believe  our  Lord  did  not  fend  them  empty  away* 
O  hleffed  fefus^  feed  them  with  that  Bread  of  Life  which 
Cometh  down  from  Heaven. 

Thurfday^  September  25.  Preached  the  Weekly-Le£lure  at 
M.r.  Foxcraft's  Meeting- Hftufe  ;  but  was  fo  opprefled  with  a 
Senfe  of  my  bafe  Ingratitude  to  my  deareft  Saviour,  that  Sa- 
tan would  fain  have  tempted  me  to  hold  my  Tongue,  and 
not  invite  poor  Sinners  to  Jefus  Chrift,  becaufe  I  was  fo  great 
a  Sinner  myfelf;  but  God  enabled  me  to  withftand  the 
Temptation,  and  fince  Jefus  Chrift  had  ftievvn  fuch  Mercy 
to,  and  had  not  withdrawn  his  Holy  Spirit  from  me  the 
chief  of  Sinners,  I  was  enabled  more  feelingly  to  talk  of  his 
Love,  and  afterwards  found  that  one  Stranger  in  particular, 
was  in  all  Probability  effectually  convinced  by  that  Morning's 
Sermon.  After  puhlick  Worfliip,  I  went,  at  his  Excellen- 
cy's Invitation,  and  dined  wiih  the  Governor.  Moil  of  the 
Minirters  of  the  Town  were  invited  with  me.  Before  Din- 
ner, the  Governor  fent  for  me  up  into  his  Chamber :  H^ 
wept,  v/ifhed  me  good  Luck  in  the  Name  of  the  Lord,  and 
recommended  himfelf,  Miniilers  and  People  to  my  Prayers. 
Immediately  after  Dinner,  I  prayed  explicitly  for  them  all, 
and  went  in  his  Coach  to  the  End  of  the  Town  j  but  had 
fiich  a  Senfe  of  my  Vilenefs  upon  my  Soul,;  that  I  wondered 

People 


^2  Mr.  Whitefield'j  Journal 

People  did  not  ftone  me.  CrofTed  a  Ferry,  and  preached  at 
Charlcjiown^  a  Town  lying  on  the  North-fide  of  Bojfon. 
The  Meeting- Houfe  was  very  capacious,  and  quite  filled.  A 
gracious  Melting  was  difcernible  through  the  whole  Congre- 
gation, I  perceived  much  Freedom  and  Sweetnefs  in  my  own 
Soul ;  tho'  the  Damp  I  felt  in  the  Morning  was  not  quite 
gone  off.  Oh  !  when  Jhall  I  he  free  from  Indwelling  Sin  ! 
O  Lord,    deliver  me  from  the  Body  of  this  Death. 

In  the  Evening  I  exhorted  and  prayed,  as  ufual,  at  my 
Lodgings ;  and,  blefled  be  God,  I  found  a  great  Alteration 
in  my  Hearers.  They  now  began  to  melt  and  weep  under 
the  Word.  Oh  that  the  Lord  may  beat  them  down  with  the 
Hammer  of  his  JFord,  till  the  Heart  of  Stone  be  entirely  taken 
away  !  Amen^  Lord  Jefus,     Amen  and  Amen. 

R  0  X  B  U  R'T. 

Friday,  September  lb.  Preached  in  the  Morning  at  Ro>f- 
bury  from  a  little  Afcent  to  many  thoufand  People,  with  much 
of  the  divine  Prefence  amongfl  iis.  Several,  I  think,  came 
afterwards  to  me,  telling  hov/  they  were  ftruck  at  that  Time 
under  the  Word  :  And  a  Miniller  wrote  to  me  thus : 

Reverend  and  dear  Sir, 
*'  A  ^^^^  ^'  ^^"^^'"'^  Affecflion,  and  very  humble  Service 
**  "^  to  you,  I  return  my  hearty  Thanks  for  your  good 
"  Services  Yellerday,  and  efpecially  at  Roxbury,  my  native 
*1  Place.  I  cannot  but  admire,  and  greatly  rejoice  in  thofe 
«'  extraordinary  Gifts  and  Graces  which  it  has  pleafed  the 
*'  Father  of  Lights  to  confer  upon  you.  And  to  fee  how 
"  much  the  Intention  of  them  is  anfwered,  in  your  flaming 
'.'Devotion,  and  zealous  and  indefatigable  Endeavours  to  do 
*'  good  to  Souls,  and  thereby  advance  the  Kingdom  and  In- 
*'  tereft  of  our  Lord.  I  think  I  never  faw  a  more  attentive 
"  Audience,  or  more  weeping  Eyes  than  Yefterday  and  A/otr- 
*'  day.  The  Holy  Spirit,  the  alone  Author  of  all  fpiritual 
*^  Lifej  fecmed  in  a  vcrv  wonderful  Manner  to  be  moving 
*'.  upon  tl:»e  Waters  of  the  Sanctuary,  breathing  upon  the 
"dry  Bones.  For  my  own  Part  I  was  much  afre^tcd,  for 
''  which  I  give  our  glorious  Lord  the  Praife." 

Dined  at  Judge  Dudley's;  Preached  In  the  Afternoon  from 
a  Scaffold  exc«iic(l  without  the  Reverend  Mr.  Byles's  Meet- 
ing-iioufe,  tojiear  double  the  Number  as   in  the  Morniiv^. 

^--  •  ■  .    -     ::.  .         ...  Snatch'd 


at  NEW^ENGLAND.  33 

Snatch'd  a  few  Minutes  to  write  a  few  Lines  to  Friends  in 
England.  Gave  a  fhort  Exhortauon  to  a  great  Crowd  of 
People,  and  fpent  the  Remainder  of  the  Evening  with  fe- 
veral  Minifters  at  Vlv.  Deacon  H — rns.  Our  Conveifation 
tended  to  the  Ufe  of  edifying.  After  Supper,  we  fung  Pfalms, 
one  of  the  Minifters  prayed,  and  then  we  took  our  Leave. 
O  that  the  Lord  may  anfwer  our  RequcjJ ,  and  revive  his 
Work  in  the  Midji  of  the  Tears  !  IVe  wait  for  thy  SalvatioUy 
O  Lord  y   O  let  thy  Kingdom  co?ne  ! 

Saturday,  Septe?nber  2-] .  Preached  in  the  iVIorning  at  the 
Reverend  J\4r.  Weljlead'i  Meeting- Houfe,  Dined  with  Co- 
lonel W — /,  and  preached  in  the  Afternoon  on  the  Common 
to  about  1 5 000  People.  But  oh  liow  did  the  Word  run  !  It 
rejoiced  me  to  fee  fuch  Numbers  greatly  afteded,  fo  that 
■  fome,  I  believe,  could  fcarce  abftain  from  crying  out,  That 
Place  xvas  no  clher  than  a  Bethel^  and  the  Gate  of  Heaven. 
After  Sermon,  I  vifited  and  prayed  with  two  different  Per- 
fons  that  were  much  hurt  in  the  late  Flight,  and  then  went 
home  to  my  Lodgings.  The  Power  and  Prefence  of  the 
Lord  accompanied  and  followed  me.  A4any  now  wept  bit- 
terly, and  cried  out  under  the  Word  like  Ferfons  that  were 
really  Hungering  and  Thirfling  after  Righteoufnefs  j  and  af- 
ter I  left  them,  God  gave  me  to  wreltle  with  him  in  my 
Chamber,  in  behalf  of  fome  dear  Friends  then  prefcnt,  and 
others  that  were  abfcnt  from  us.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
was  upon  them  all.  It  made  Interceffion  with  Groanings 
that  cannot  be  uttered.  O  let  them  enter  into  thy  Ears^  O 
Lord  of  Sabaoth  ! 

Sunday^  September  28.  Preached  in  the  Morning  at  Dr. 
Sewal's  Meeting- Houfe  to  a  very  crowded  Auditory,  and  al- 
moft  with  as  much  Power,  and  as  vifible  Appearance  of  God 
among  us  as  Yelierday,  In  the  Afternoon  colleiTted  555  /. 
Currency  for  my  little  Lambs  j  was  taken  very  ill  afcer  Din- 
ner ;  vomited  violently  ;  but  was  enabled  to  preach  at  Dr. 
Colman's  in  the  Afternoon  to  as  great,  if  not  a  greater 
Congregation  than  in  the  Morning.  Here  alfo  470/,  were 
collcfted  for  the  Orphan-Houfe  in  Georgia.  In  both  Places, 
all  Things  were  carried  on  with  great  Decency  and  Order. 
People  went  flowly  cut,  as  tho'  they  had  not  a  Mind  to  cf- 
cape  giving;  and  Dr.  Cdrnan  faid,  "  It  was  the  moft  plea- 
*'  fant  Time  he  ever  enjoyed  in  that  Meeting-Houfe  through 
*'  the  whole  Courfe  of  his  Life."  Blelfed  be  God,  after 
Sermon,  I  perceived  myfc:lf  fomewhat  refrefhcd.  Supped 
very  early.     Had  the  Honour  of  a  private  V'ifit  from  the  Go- 


J4f"  Mr.  Whit  EF I  eld' J  Journal 

vernor,  who  came  full  of  Affedion  to  take  his  Leave  of  me 
for  the  prefcnt.  Went  at  their  Requeft,  and  preached  to  a 
great  Number  of  Negroes  on  the  Convcrfion  of  the  £'//;/(?/)7,j/7, 
A^s  viii.  (at  which  the  poor  Creatures,  as  well  as  mgny 
white  People,  were  much  afFcdied)  and,  at  my  Return,  gave 
a  Word  of  Exhortation  to.  a  Crowd  of  People,  who  were 
waiting  at  my  Lodgings.  My  Animal  Spirits  were  almoft 
exhauftcd,  and  my  Legs,  through  Expence  of  Sweating  and 
Vomiting,  almoft  ready  to  fmlc  under  me:  But  the  Lord 
vifited  my  Soul  ;  and  I  went  to  Bed  greatly  refrefhed  with 
divine  Confolations.  Oh  zvhat  am  I  that  I  JJoould  be  thus 
doily  f(d  with  heavenly  Manna  !  Lord,  thsu  fiHeJl  my  Soul 
vAth  Marrow  and  Fatnefs.  O  let  me  praife  thf^jjuitb  joyful 
Lips!  r/iij  "io  W     :■: 

Marble-Headj  Salem  2X\^Jpfmch. 

Monday,  Sept(?nbcr  29.  Set  out  about  feven  in  the  Morn- 
ing;  Got  to  Marble- Head,  a  large  Town  twenty  Miles 
from  Bojion.  About  eleven  preached  to  fome  Thoufands  in 
a  broad  Place  in  the  Middle  of  the  Town,  but  not  with  much 
vifible  EfFedr.  Dined  with  the  Reverend  Mr.  Bernard,  one 
of  the  Minifters  of  the  Place.  Rode  to  Salem,  four  Miles 
from  Marble-Head,  and  preached  there  alfo  to  about  2000. 
Here  the  Lord  manifefted  forth  his  Glory.  One  was,  I  be- 
lieve, (truck  down  by  the  Ppwer  of  the  Word.  In  every 
Part  pf  the  Congregation,  Perfons  might  be  feen  under  great 
Concern  ;  and  one  Mr.  C — /•,  a  good  Miniiler,  as  is  grant- 
ed by  all  Lovers  of  God,  feemed  to  be  almoft  in  Heaven. 
Salem  is  the  firft  fettled  and  biggeft  Town  (next  to  Bojion) 
In  all  New-England,  but,  as  far  as  I  could  fee  and  hear,  ra- 
ther exceeds  it  for  Politenefs,  I  found  the  Inhabitants  had 
been  fadly  divided  about  their  Miniftcrs,  and  God  was  plcafed, 
before  I  knew  their  Circumftances,  to  dire<^  me  to  a  fuitable 
Siibjeift.  Lord  heal  their  Divifions,  and  graiit  that  ivith  one 
Heart  and  one  Aiind,  they  may  endeavour  to  glorify  thy  holy 
Name.  After  the  Exercife,  1  immediately  fet  out,  and  got 
to  Ipfwich,  another  large  Town  fixtecn  Miles  (the  Way  we 
Went)  diftant  from  Salem.  Two  or  three  Gentlemen  came 
to  meet  mc,  and  1  and  my  Friends  were  moft  kindly  en- 
tertained at  the  Houfe  ot  the  Reverend  Mr,  R — s,  one  of 
the  Miniftcrs  of  the  Place.  The  Lord  rciuard  him  and  all 
ethers^  a  tlmfand  FolJy  ivho  refrcjl/  our  Bowels  in  the  Lord  ! 

Ipfivichy 


ct  HAMPrON,   Sec:  '3J 

Tuefday^  September  30.  Preachld  at  Ipfwlch  about  ten- in - 
the  Morning  to  many  Thoufands.  The  Lord  gave  me  Free- 
dom, and  there  was  a  great  melting  in  the  Congregation. 
Dined.  Set  cut  for  and  reached  Ncivbury\  another  Town, 
twelve  Miles  diftant  from  Ipfivich^  about  three.  Here  agaia 
the  Power  of  the  Lord  accompanied  the  Word.  The  Meet- 
ing-Houfe  was  very  large.  Many  Minifters  were  prefent, 
and  the  People  were  greatly  affected.  Bleffed  be  God^  his 
divine  Power  more  and  more  attends  us.  Took  Ferry  im- 
mediately after  Sermon,  and  with  the  Reverend  Mr.  Cotton^ 
Minifter  of  the  Place,  who  came  to  fetch  me,  went  in  a 
Chaife  to  Hampton^  where  I  was  pleafed  to  fee  more  Plain- 
nefs  in  Mr.  Cotton's  Houfe,  than  I  had  feen  in  any  Minifter's 
Houfe  fmce  my  Arrival.  His  Wife  was  as  one  that  ferveth. 
Oh  that  all  Minifters  Wives  were  fo  !  For  there  is  nothing 
gives  me  more  OfFence  than  to  fee  Clergymen's  Wives  drclTed 
out  in  the  Pride  of  Life.  They  brng  a  Reproach  upon  Re- 
ligion. The  generally  live  up  to  the  utmoft  of  their  In- 
come ;  and,  being  above  working,  after  their  Husband's  De- 
ceafe,  they  are  of  all  Women  moft  miferable.  From  fuch  a 
Wife^  good  Lord^  of  thy  infinite  Mercy ^  deliver  my  Soid  I 

Hampton^  Fortfmouth  and  Tork, 

Wednefdayy  OSIober  I.  Preached  in  the  Morning,  tho' 
not  with  fo  much  Freedom  as  ufual,  at  Hampton,  to  fome 
Thoufands  in  the  open  Air.  The  Wind  was  almoft  too  high 
for  me.  Some,  tho'  not  many,  were  afFe^led.  God''s  Spi- 
rit bloweth  when  and  where  it  Ujhth.  After  Dinner,  rode  in 
Company  with  many  to  Porifnvmth^  a  large  Town  about 
fourteen  Miles  from  Hampton.  Got  thither  in  about  an 
Hour  and  a  half.  Preached  to  a  polite  Auditory,  and  fo  ve- 
ry unconcerned,  that  I  began  to  queftion  whether  I  had  been 
preaching  to  rational,  or  brute  Creatures.  Seeing  no  imme- 
diate Effects  of  the  Word  preached,  I  was  a  little  dejefted  ; 
but  God,  to  comfort  my  Heart,  fent  one  young  Man  to  me 
crying  out,   in  great  Anguifli  of  Spirit,  What  jhall  I  do  tQ  be 

Javed  ?  Oh  how  doei^God  pity  the  IVeaknefs  cf  his  Children  / 
Why  wajl  thou  fo\(^l  down,  O  my  Soul  F  Crpfll'd  a  Ferry 
immediately  after  Sermon,  and  went  over  a  yejy  llony  Way 

-  to  Tori,  a  Town  thirteen  Miles,    round  the  Ferry,  diilant 

£2  from 


ij>  Mr.  Whitefield'^  'journal 

l\om  Porifmouth  :  Hither  I  came  to  fee  one  Mr.  Moody,  a 
-worthy,  plain  and  powerful  Minifler  of  Jefus  Chrift,  tho' 
now  much  impaired  by  old  Age.  He  has  lived  by  Faith  for 
manv  Years,  would  have  no  fettled  ^]alary,  and  has  been  much 
defpifed  by  bad  M'^n,  and  as  much  refpeclcd  by  the  true 
Lovers  of  the  blefltd  Jefus.  H^  came  as  far  as  Hampton  to 
meet  me,  hut  getting  before  him,  in  our  Night-Travelling  ; 
a  Phylician,  his  Neighbour,  whc.  came  alfo  to  meet  me,  re- 
ceived us  into  jjis  Houfe,  and  ki.nolv  entertained  us.  Some 
of  our  Fellow-travellers  loft  their  \'v  ay,  but  came  to  us  fome- 
time  after  our  Arrival  at  Tork.  Here  we  prayed  and  fup- 
ped  very  comfortably  together.  The  Air  agreed  mightily 
with  my  Ccnftitution.  As  i  can,:-  along,  1  was  furprized 
to  fee  fuch  Improvements  made  in  a  Place  of  about  a  hundred 
Years  ftandmg,  ;u]d  could  nut  but  fancy  ir.yfelf  in  Old- Eng- 
land. Surely.  Gcd  is  a  God  keeptng  Covenant.  He  has 
blefled  this  Generation  for  their  Fathers  Sake,  with  all  tem- 
poral Bleffings.  Lord,  with  tbefe  temporal,  give  them  .fpiri- 
tual  Bleffijtgs ;  otherwife  Profperity  will  ■  dejiroy  them. 

Tork  and  Port/mouth. 

Tuefday,  06icher  i.  Was  comforted  to  hear  good  Mr. 
Moody  tell  me,  *'  That  he  believed  I  {hoi.-ld  preach  to  a 
*'  hundred  new  Creatures  this  Morning  in  his  Cong-cgation." 
And  indeed  I  believe  I  did.  For  when  I  came  to  preach,  I 
could  fpeak  little  or  no  Terror,  but  almoft  all  Confolation. 
I  preached  both  Morning  and  Evening.  The  Hearers  looked 
plain  and  fimple  j  and  Tears  trickled  apace  down  moft  of 
their  Cheeks.  Indeed  we  faw  the  Outgoings  of  the  Lord 
in  his  SancSiuary.  But  one  Thing  put-  a  little  Damp  upon 
iny  Soul,  and  I  hope,  did  me  good.  Mr.  Moody  has  a  Son, 
a  Minifter,  who  was  once  full  of  Faith  and  Joy  in  the  Holy 
Ghoft,  and  walked  in  the  Light  of  God's  Countenance,  and 
made  full  Proof  of  hisMiniftry  ;  but  for  thefe  two  Years  lafl; 
paft,  has  walked  in  Darknefs,  and  feen  no  Light.  Lie  has  an 
inexpreflible  Gloominefs  upon  his  Soul,  and  cannot  apply  any 
of  thePromifes  to  himfcif  I  was  Informed  he  was  at  Meet- 
ing, but  dared  not  fee  me.  I  was  affifted  to  pray  for  him. 
I  prayed  the  more  earnef^ly,  not  knowing  but  his  Cafe  might 
be  mine  hereafter.  Lord,  let  me  not  be  high-minded,  but  fear. 
Into  thy  Hands  I  commit  my  Spirit.  I  dejire  to  take  no  Thought 
for  the  Morroiu.  Deal  ivith  me  as  it  Jhall  pleafe  thee.  Jufi- 
ly  mayjl  thou  take  every  Comfort  ffcm  me  :  For  J  have  wretchr 

edly 


at    N  E  IF  BURT,  &c.  37 

£dly  alufed  thy  Loving- Kindnefs.     God  be  merciful   to  me  a 
Sinner  ! 

Left  York  about  four  in  the  Evening;  Reached  Portfmouth 
by  Night ;  Supped  ;  Converfed,  and  fung  Pfalms  very  com- 
fortably with  my  Friends.  The  Lord  was  pleafed  to  hft 
up  the  Light  of  his  blefied  Countenance  more  and  more  upon 
my  Soul.  Rightly  is  'Jsfui  called  Jmmanuel.  He  is  God  not 
only  in,  but  with  us.  Oh  that  I  may  never  provoke  him  to 
dtpart  from  me  ! 

Portfmouth  J  Hampton  and  Neivhury. 

Friday,  OSioher  3.  Preached  this  Morning  at  Portfmouth 
to  a  far  greater  Congregation  than  before.  Inftead  of  preach- 
ing to  dead  Stocks,  I  bad  now  Reafon  to  believe  I  was  preach- 
ing to  living  Men.  People  began  to  melt  foon  after  1  began 
to  pray,  and  the  Power  encreafed  more  and  more  during  the 
whole  Sermon,  The  Word  feemed  to  pierce  through  and 
through,  and  carried  fuch  Convidion  along  with  it,  that  ma- 
ny, who  before  had  induftrioufly  fpoken  Evil  of  me,  were 
afhamed  of  themfelves.  Mr.  Shiitlif  the  Minifter,  when  he 
afterwards  fent  me  97  /.  colleded  at  this  Time  for  the  Or- 
phans, wrote  thus :  "•  You  have  kft  great  Numbers  under 
*•■  deep  Impreffions,  and  I  truft  in  God  they  will  not  wear 
*'  off;  but  tiiat  the  Convidions  of  fume  will  he  kept  up  and 
"  chcrifhed,  till  they  have  had  their  defired  Effed."  Ajnen 
and  Amen. 

0-  Haltned  after  Dinner  to  Hampton  \  Preached  to  fcveral 
^houfands  of  People,  with  a  great  deal  of  Life  and  Power, 
Colledcd  41/.  for  my  little  Ones,  and  fct  out  direiftly  fof 
Newbury  ;  which  we  reached  about  eight  at  Night,  and  was 
kindly  entertained  at  a  Gentleman's  Houfe  wivh  all  my  Friends- 
My  Heart  was  much  enlarged  and  filled  with  Jov,  and  in 
the  Way  two  old  Difciples  came  to  me,  acquainting  me  what 
fweet  refrefhing  Times  God  had  vouclifafed  them  under  my 
Miniftry.  Lord,  not  unto  me,  not  unto  me^  bitt^into  thy  Free^ 
Grace  be  all  the  Glory  !  "^^' v  I,^,'", 

Newbury,  Jpfimh  and  S^akm. 

Saturday^  GSiober  4.   Lay  at  the  Houfe  of   Mr.  i— /  1V^{- 
nifter   of  the  Place.     Preached    in   the  Morning  to  a ,  very 
thronged    Congregation,  and   favi'   the  Outgoings  of  God   in 
his  San(auary.     Colleded  80//  Hafted  to  Ipfwich.    Preach- 
ed 


3§  Mr.  White FiELD*^  Journal 

ed  to  a  larger  Congregation,  and  with  as  much  Power  as 
when  there  laft.  CoIJeded  79  /.  for  the  Orphans.  Got  to 
Saletn  about  eight  at  Night.  Was  kindly  received  by  Co- 
lonel P — r,  and  aifo  was  favoured  with  a  Vifit  from  ^hfl 
Minifter  belonging  to  the  Church  of  England.  ''  ^ 

Sunday^  OBober  5.  Preached  at  eight  in  the  Morning,  in 
the  Meeting- Houfe,  at  the  Minifter's  Requeft.  Read  Prayers, 
and  aflifted  in  the  Sacrament  in  the  Church  of  England.  But 
thought  Matters  were  not  at  all  carried  on  with  Decency  and 
Order.  Preached  again  in  the  Afternoon  in  the  Meeting- 
Houfe,  but  faw  no  fuch  Power  all  the  Day  as  when  I  preach- 
ed here  a  few  Days  ago.  Colleded  72/.  for  the  Orphan- 
Houfe.  O  that  the  Lord  -would  reach  the  Hearts  of  the  In- 
habltantSj  and  make  them  a  peculiar  People^  zealous  of  good 
Works  I  y 

Saletriy  MarbJe-Head,   MauUen  and  Bojlon.  \ 

Monday^  OSIoher  6.  Spent  the  Sabbath-Evening  very  com- 
fortably with  my  dear  Fellow-Travellers  in  converfing,  praying 
and  finging  fpiritual  Songs.  I  truft,  we  made  Melody  with 
Grace  in  our  Hearts  unto  the  Lord.  Set  out  from  Salem  about 
nine  this  Morning.  Preached  at  Marble- Head  about  eleven, 
and  with  fuch  Power,  that  I  truft  it  will  be  a  Day  much  to  be 
Tcmember'd  by  many  Souls.  I  was  upon  the  Mount  myfelf, 
and  the  Lord  attended  his  Word  with  mighty  Power.  The 
two  Minifters  prcfented  me  with  70/.  for  the  Orphan- Houfe, 
■which  they  had  voluntarily  colle<5tcd  Yefterday  in  their  own 
private  Meetings.  Was  moft:  affedionately  received  and  cn- 
tcrtain'd  by  Colonel  M — 7z,  from  whom  I  parted  almoft 
with  Tears.     Thr  Lord  make  him  rich  in  Faith,  and  in  good 

'  TForks.  At  the  Requeft  of  the  Reverend  Mr.  E — «,  Son- 
in-law  to  dear  Mr.  Moody.,  and,  I  believe,  really  a  Man  of 
God,  we  went  to  A'lauldcn,  fourteen  Miles  from  Marble- 
Head^  where  I  preached  not  with  fo  much  Power  as  in  the 
Morning.  But  one  Girl  came  crying  to  me  and  faying^ 
*'  She  feared  flie  had  not  true  Faith  in  Jefus,"  O  that  others 
began  to  doubt  aljo  !  Here  tlic  Secretary,  and  feveral  Friends 
from.  Bojhn^gd.\'c  me  the  JMceting.     With  tlicin,  immediate- 

Wy  aCtcr  Sermon,  I  fet  out,  and  get  privately  into  Bojhn  about 
jfci'cn  at  Night.  Received  con^fortablc  Letters  iVom  Georgia 
and  South  Carolina  y  and  alfo  had  the  Satisfaflion  of  hearing 

-that-  Brother  Seiuard  was  fafcjv   arrived   in   England.     "The 

.Lord  pro/per   the  JVork  of  Lis  Hands   upon  hint.     Perceived 

my 


at    S  ALE  M,    &c.  39 

my  Health  to  be  much  improved  llnce  I  left  Bojlon.  And 
tho' 1  had  rode  178  Miles,  and  preached  fixteen  Times,  I 
truft  to  the  great  Benefit  of  Thoufands ;  yet  I  was  not  in 
the  leaft  wearied  or  fatigued.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was 
upon  me;  and  I  fat  up  till  near  Midnight  to  anfwer  Corre- 
fpondents,  and  fettle  my  private  Affairs.  Afterwards  I  went 
to  Reft,  full  of  Peace,  and  defiring  to  be  thankful  to  the  Lord, 
for  caufing  me  thus  to  renew  my  Strength.  Oh  what  a  good 
Mafter  h  Jefus  Chrijl  ! 

Tuefday,  Oiiober  7.  Preached  both  Morning  and  Evening 
in  Dr.  Caiman's  Mceting-Houfe,  both  Times  with  much 
Power.  People  feemed  greatly  rejoic'd  at  my  Arrival,  it  be- 
ing confidently  reported  I  died  fuddenly,  or  was  poifoned  : 
But  I  find  I  muft  not  yet  die,  but  live  and  declare  the 
Works  of  the  Lord.  Father^  I  fuhnli  \  thy  Will  he  done. 
Vifited,  I  believe,  a  true  Difciple,  who  had  been  fick  for  a 
long  Seafon.  The  Lord  has  made  his  Bed  in  his  Sicknefs, 
He  has  been  enabled  to  rejoice  in  the  Truth.  Who  would  but 
he  a  Chrijllan  ?  Supped  and  gave  a  Word  of  Exhortation  to 
many  People,  at  a  Houfe  which  I  truft  the  Lord  will  vifit 
with  his  Salvation.  Wherever  I  go.  People  will  follow  me. 
And  I  now,  hourly  almoft,  receive  Letters  from  Perfons  un- 
der Conviflions,  as  alfo  congratulatory  Letters,  and  Vifits 
from  many  Children  of  God,  who  caufes  me  to  triumph  iii 
the  Felicity  of  his  Chofen.      Blejjed  he  God  / 

Wednefdayy  O£ioher  8.  Went  v/ith  the  Governor  in  his 
Coach  to  Mr.  Webb's  Meeting- Houfe,  where  I  preached  both 
Morning  and  Evening  to  very  great  Auditories.  Both  Time's 
(efpecially  in  the  Morning)  Jefus  Chrift  manifefted  forth  his 
Glory.  Many  Hearts  melted  within  them,  and  I  think  I 
never  was  io  drawn  out  to  pray  for  and  invite  little  Children 
to  Jefus  Chrift,  as  I  was  this  Morning.  A  little  before,  I  had 
heard  of  a  Child,  who  v/as  taken  fick  juft  after  it  had  heard 
me  preach,  and  faid,  "  He  would  go  to  Mr.  JVhltejisld'^ 
*'  God,"  and  died  in  a  fhort  Time.  This  encouraged  me 
to  fpeak  to  little  Ones.  But,  oh  how  were  the  old  People 
aftV-ded,  when  I  faid,  *«  Little  Children,  if  your 'Parents 
"  will  not  come  to  Chrift,  do  you  come  and  go  to  Heaven 
**  without  them."  Tiiere  feemed  to  be  but  few  dry  Eyes. 
Look  where  I  would,  the  Word  fmote  them,  I  believe, 
through  and  through,  and  my  own  Soul  was  very  much  car- 
ried out.  Surely  it  was  the  Lord's  Paflbver.  I  have  not 
feen  a  greater  Cotn^^otion  fince  my  Preaching  at  Bofton.  Glo' 
ry  be  to  God  zvho  ^''■'  v;t  Jor-^oft^n  to  l:-  gracious.  Went  with 
i  '  the 


40  Mr.  WhiTefikld'j  Journal 

the  Governor,  who  feemed  more  and  more  affefted,  in  his 
Coach  to  my  Lodgings.  Snatch'd  a  few  Moments  to  write 
a  Letter  or  two.  Gave  a  Word  of  Exhortation  to  a  great 
Crowd  of  People,  and  afterwards  flipped  out  privately  at  a 
Back  door,  and  went  and  fupped  at  a  Man's  Houfe,  whofe 
Wife  and  Sifter,  as  well  as  himfelf,  I  truft  the  Lord  will 
vifit-with  his  Salvation.  AmeUy  come  Lord  J  ejus  Chri/I, 
come  quickly. 

Tburfda)\  OfJoher  9.  Have  been  applied  to,  this  and  every 
Morning  fince  my  Return,  by  many  Souls  under  deep  Di- 
flrefs,  and  was  only  grieved  that  I  could  not  have  more 
Time  with  them.  Preached  this  Mornmg  the  public  Lec- 
ture at  Dr.  Seivall's  Meeting-Houfe,  which  was  very  much 
crowded.  When  I  had  left  my  Lodgings,  I  had  fixed  upon 
and  folded  down  a  particular  l>xt :  But,  when  I  came 
near  the  Meeting-Houfe,  I  found  it  much  imprefled  upon  my 
Heart,  that  I  fhould  preach  upon  our  Lord's  Conference 
•with  Nicodemus.  I  acquainted  a  Friend  with  it.  When  I 
came  into  the  Pulpit,  I  faw  a  great  Number  of  Minifters 
fitting  around  and  before  me  :  And  when  I  came  to  thefe 
Words,  Jrt  thou  a  Majfcr  in  Ifrael,  and  knowcjl  not  thefe 
Things  ?  the  Lord  gave  mc  to  open  my  Mouth  boldly,  a- 
gainft  unconverted  Miniilers,  to  caution  Tutors  to  take  care  of 
their  Pupils,  and  alfo  to  advife  all  Minifters,  particularly  to 
examine  the  Experiences  of  thofe  that  were  Candidates  for  Ordi- 
nation. For  I  am  verily  perfuaded.,  the  Generality  of  Preachers 
talk  of  an  unknoivn,  unfclt  C'orljl.  And  the  Rcafon  luhy  Congre- 
gations have  ht:en  fo  dead^  Is  iecaufe  dead  Men  preach  to  them. 
O  that  the  Lord  may  quicken  and  revive  them  for  his  own 
Names  Sake.  For  how  can  dead  A<fen  beget  living  Children  ? 
"Tis  true,  God  may  convert  People  by  the  Devil.,  If  he  pleafes^ 
and  fo  he  may  by  unconverted  Allnl/lcrs  ;  but  I  believe  he  fel- 
dom  or  never  makes  Ufe  of  either  of  them  for  this  Purpofe  ;  No: 
The  Lord  will  chufe  Aien  toho  are  Vejfcls  made  meet  by  the 
Operations  of  his  blcffed  Spirit.^  for  his  f acred  Ufe.  And  as  for 
my  own  Part.,  I  would  not  lay  Hands  knowingly  on  an  unconvert- 
ed'Aldn  far  ten  thoufund  JP''orlds.  Unfpcakabie  Freedom  God 
gave  me  when  fpeaking  on  this  Head.  After  Sermon  I  dined 
with  the  Governor,  who  fcemcd  more  kindly  aiFcfted  than 
ever,  and  particularly  told  one  of  the  Minilters,  who  has 
lately  begun  to  preach  Extempore^  *'  that  he  was  glad,  he  had 
found  out  a  Way  to  fave  his  Eyes."  Oh  that  others  tvould fol- 
low him  !  I  believe.^  they  would  find  God  ready  to  help  and  af 
fijl  ihtin.  In  the  Afternoon  1  preached  on  the  Common  to  about 
':y -^j  ^  ^^'----^  ;..^^>     .:-i^w  ^...  ._•  15000 


CHARLESrOPTNi  4^ 

15000  Pieoplej  colle<5ied  upwards  of  200 /.  for  the  Orphahs*. 
Juft  as  I  had  linifhed   my  Sermon,  a    Ticket   was  put  up  t^ 
t6  ine,  wherein  I  was  defired  to  pray  "  for  a  Perfon  juft  en-j 
"  tered  upon   the   Minlftry:   hut   under   Apprehfenllons  that.^ 
*'  he  was  not  converted."     God  enabled  rne  to  pray  for  him 
with   my  whole    Heart.     Jnd  I  hope   that   Tuket  iviil  teach 
many  others^    not  to    run    before    they    can  give  an  Account  of 
their  Converfion  ;  ;/  thny  do^  they   offer   God  Jlrange  Fire. — 
Went  to  a  F^uneral  of  one  belongihg  to  the  Council,  but  do 
not  like  the  Cuftom  at  Bojlon  of  not   fpeaking  at  the  Grave. 
TVhen   can  Minifen  Prayers  and  Exhortations  be  mere  fuit- 
able,  than  when  the  Corps  before  them   luill  ftlently   as  it  were  . 
ajjijl  them  ;  and  with  a  Kind  of  du?nb  Oratory,  bid  the  Spec- 
tdtors  confidcr  their  later  End?  When  the  Funeral  was  over, 
I  went,  as  privately  as  poffible,  to  the  Alms-Houfe,  and  en-. 
larged  on  thcfe  Words,   The  Poor  received  the  Go/pel,  for  near 
half  an    Hour;  then  I  went   to  th?  Work-hcufe,  where  I 
prayed  with,  and  exhorted  a  great   Number  of  People,  who 
crowded  after  me,  befides  thofe  belonging   to   the   Houfe,  for 
near  an  Hour  more.  And  then,  hearing   there  vt'as  a  confide- 
rable  Number  more  waiting  for  me  at  my  Lodgings  (tho'  fome.. 
Cryed  out,  fpare  thyfelf)  God  ftrengthened   me  to  give  them  ^ 
a  fpiritual  Morfel,  and  then  I  went  and  eat  Bread  very  com- ' 
fortably   at  a   Friend's    Houfe,  whither  I   was  invited,  ani' 
foon  aiter  retired  to  my  Reft.     Ob  !  hotv  comfortable  is  Sleep 
after   zvorking  for    Jefus !    Lord  firengtben    me  yet    a  little 
longer,  and  then    let    me  fleep  in  thee,  never  to  awake  in  thii 
vain  World  again:  Still  I  mufl  intreat  thee,   ifmcjl  conducive^ 
to  thy  Glory,  and  the  Good  of  Souls,  to  make  no  long  ^^rrj^ 
hgy  O  my   God!  ■  .VV" 

Charleftoivn  and  Redding,  .    ^^.". 

Frtday,  Odolcr  lO.  Still  bufied,  from  the  very  Momeri'g 
I  rofe  'till  I  went  out,  in  anfwering  poor  Souls,  that  cam'b^ 
to  me  under  great  Diilrefs.  About  nine  went  to  Mr.  Ccopei; ^ 
ever  Charlcfiown  Ferry,  where  I  preached  with  fnuch  De'^ 
monftratjon  of  the  Spirit,  and  coIle<£led  156/,  for  the  Oi^ 
phans.  Then  I  dined  at  Myjlick,  at  the  Houfe  of  Efq;  R — t*^ 
a.  young  rich  Man,  who  has  feemed  to  be  much  afFc<5led  fpjf, 
fome  Time.  Oh  that  he  may  net  lack  one  Thing  I  Immei 
diately  after  Dinner  we  hafted  to  Redding,  12  Males'  fromJ 
Char lejl own.  There  I.preachtd_  to  many  thouGmd?,  and  coiled;* 
ted  51"/.  5  ;.  for  mv  litile'Ones.'  And  o^bfcrved'a  'coriridef'a» • 
Q  bl« 


42  M-r.  Wh  I T  E  F I E  L D'i  Journat 

^le  Moving  in  the  Congregation.  Returned  and  fupped  at 
Mr.  R — /'s.  Was  weak,  very  weak  in  Body.  But  was  re- 
freflicd  to  hear  of  a  poor  Girl,  who  was  found  fitting  at  the 
Gate  in  the  Cold.  Upon  being  examined  by  a  truly  expe- 
rienced Friend,  he  found  fhe  was  under  very  ftrong  Convidi- 
ons,  and  had  followed  me  from  Rcxbury.  She  faid,-  **•  She 
"  wanted  nothing  but  Chrifl,  and  Chrifl:  fhe  would  have." 
Blejfed  are  they  who  hunger  and  ih'irji  after  Righteoufnefs^  for 
they  Jhall  he  filled.  Lord  let  this  'Promifi:  he  fulfilled  in  her 
Heart  ! 

Cambridge  and  Bofion. 

Saturday,  October  ii.  Was  bat  weak  in  Bod v,  and  per- 
ceived I  had  taken  Cold.  But  Preaching,  I  find,  is  a  con- 
flant  Remedy  againft  all  Indifpofitions.  Went  to  Cambridge, 
four  Miles  from  MyfUck.  Preached  at  the  Meeting- Houfe 
Door,  to  a  great  Body  of  People,  who  ftood  very  attentively, 
tho'  it  rained,  and  were,  at  the  latter  Part  of  the  Sermon, 
much  affeifled.  It  being  at  the  Univcrfity,  I  preached  on 
thefe  Words,  Noah  the  eighth  Perforin  a  Preacher  of  Righte- 
otfnefs,  and  endeavoured  to  flievv  the  Q^ialifications  proper 
for  a  true  evangelical  Preacher  of  Chrifl 's  Righteoufnefs. 
The  Lord  opened  my  Mouth,  and  I  fpoke  very  plainly  to 
Tutors  and  Pupils.  One  hundred  Pounds  were  colleded  for 
the  Orphans.  After  a  Sermon,  the  Prelldent  kindly  enter- 
tained me  and  my  Friends.  About  four  we  reached  Bojhn  ; 
I  preached  immediately  at  Dr.  SeiuaTs  Meeting-Houfe  j  ex- 
harted  a  great  Isluttiber  afterwards  at  my  Lodgings :  And 
then  was  employed  "till  near  Midnight  in  fettling  my  private 
Affairs,  anfwering  Letters,  and  fpeaking  to  Souls  under  Con- 
victions. One  little  Girl,  about  eight  Years  old,  came  to 
me  under  deep  Co.icern.  She,  as  her  Friends  told,  had  been 
wreftling  f&r  Chrtfl-,  and  while  fhe  was  wreftling,  it  came 
to  her  Mind,  That  Jefus  being  in  Agony,  prayed  yet  fo  much 
ihe^rnore  earnefly,  and  that  an  jLigel  xvas  Jent  from.  Heaven 
to  firenglhcn  him.  This  encouraged  lier  to  perfevere,  and  her 
Soul  focn"  received  fonie  Comfort.  Another  iMinifter's 
Daughter  hSs  been  quite  refllefs  alter  Chiift  Night  and  Y>e^y. 
7\nd  a'  young  Man. about  fourteen  came  to  me  crying  and 
fay'ing,  "  Sir,  I  am  corvi£le-(l  but  nc  converted,  Oh  pruy  for 
^^  xnzVff  r 'thank  thee^  Ilgly  Father,  '  crd  <^f  Hea-ven 
'in^  Earth,  ^that  thou  hajl  hid ' thefe    Tl/tngs  from  the   IFife 

and 


af    B  0  S  r  0  N,  43 

and   Prudent,  and    haft  rmmled,  them  unto^  Bales.     Even 
foy  Father  ;  for  fo  it  feemed  gaod  in  thy  Sight. 

Sunday,   OBchcr  12,    Was    much   refre&ed    in   Body  and 
Soul,  when  I  rofe  in  the  Morning.     Spoke  to  as  many  as  I 
could,  that  came  for  fpiritual  Advice.     Preached   with  great 
great  Power  and  Affe(rtion,  at    Dr.    Sewal's   Meeting-Houfe, 
which  was  fo  exceedingly  throng'd,  that  I  was  obliged  to  get  in 
at  one  of  the  Windou's.     Dined  with  the  Governor,  who  came 
to  me,  after  Dinner,  when  I  was  retired,  and  v/eeping,  moft 
earneftly  delired  my  Prayers.     77^*?  Lord  be  "with  and  in  hi?ny 
for  Time  and  Eternity  !  Went  and    heard  Dr.  Sewal  preach 
in   the    Afternoon.      Was   fick  at   Meeting,    and  alfo  after 
Meeting  was  over.     W^^ent  with  the  Governor   in  his  Coach, 
to  the  Common,  where  I   preached    my  Farewel  Sermon  to 
near  30.000  People.     A    Sight  I  have  not   fcen  fmce   I  left 
Blachheath,  and  a  Sight,  perhaps   never   before  feen   in  Ame- 
rica.    It   being  duskilh   before   I  had  done,  the  Sight    was 
more  folemii.     Numbers,  great  Numbers,  melted  into  Tears, 
when   I  talked   of  leaving   them.     I   was   very  particular  in 
my  Application,  both  to  Rulers,  Miniflers  and  People;  com- 
mended what  was  commendable,  blamed  what   was  blame- 
worthy, and  exhorted  my  Hearers  ileadily  to  imitate  the  Pie- 
ty of  their  Forefathers  ;  fo  that,  whether   1   v/as  prefent,  or 
whether   I  was  abfent,  I  might   hear  of  their   Affairs,  that 
with  one  Heart  and  one  Mind,  thejr  were  firiving  together  for 
the  Faith  of  the  Gofpel.    After  Sermon,  the  Governor  went 
with  me  to  my  Lodgings.     I  flood  in  the  Paffage,  and  fpoke 
to  a  great  Company,  both  within   and  without  Doors ;  but 
they  were  fo,  deeply  affed^ed,  and  cried   fo    loud    that   I   was 
obliged   to  leave    off  praying.      The    Governor    was   highly 
pleafed  to  fee  the  Power  of  God.      He  took  his  Leave  in  the 
moft  affectionate  Manner,  and  faid,  he  would  come  and  take 
me  in  his  Coach  to  Charlcjlovun  Ferry  the  Morrow  Morn- 
ing.    The  Remainder  of  the  Evening  was  almoft  entirely  ta- 
.Icen-up  in  fpeaking  to  Pcrfons  under  va-'j  great  Diflrcfs  of  Soul. 
^*The    poor   Girl   that  followed   me  from  Roxbury^  I  beheve, 
got  a  Saviiig  Difcovery  of  Chrift  this  Morning.     For   when 
I  preached  on   thcfe  Words,   Tl^s  Lord  our  Right coufnefs.,  (he 
was  enabled  to  fay.  The  Lord  my  Righteoufncfs.,  and  was  not 
afraid  to  die.     The   poor  Creature,   I   found  upon   Enqiirv, 
/could  not  read,  which  fliews  tiie  Sovereignty  of  God's  ele«fl- 
'^'ing  Love,   and  confirms  what  the  Apoftle  fays.  That  the  Lord 
^chafes  the  foolijh   Things   of  this  World  to  confound  the  IVifei 
i^^lany  ciTered  to  go  with  me  to  Georgia  j  and  Charity,  I  be- 
G  2  liev  e  , 


44"  ^r,  WHiTEFi£tD*j  yourjial 

lieve,  will  incline  me  to  take  her :  For  fhe's  caft  out,  in  ef- 
fect, already  for  Chrifl's  Sake.  BleJJed  be  God^  for  tvhat 
Things  has  been  done  in  Bofton.  /  hope  a  glorious  JVork  is 
now  begun^  and  that  the  Lord  will  Jiir  up  fome  faithful  La- 
btrurers  to  carry  it  en.  **  Bofton  is  a  large  populous  Place, 
*'  ver)'  wealthy.  Has  the  Form  kept  up  ;  but  has  loft  much 
*'  of  the  Power  of  Religion.  I  have  not  heard  of  any  re- 
**  markable  Stir  for  tbefe  many  Years.  Minifters  and  Peo- 
"  pie  are  obliged  to  confefs,  that  the  Love  of  many  is  waxed 
**  cold.  Both,  for  the  Generality,  feem  to  be  too  much  con- 
"  formed  to  the  World.  There's  much  of  the  Pride  of  Life 
**  to  be  (ecn  in  their  AlTemblies.  Jewels,  Patches,  and  gay 
*'  Apparel  are  commonly  worn  by  the  Female  Sex,  and  even 
*'  the  common  People,  I  obferved,  drelTed  up  in  the  Pride 
*'  of  Life.  And  the  little  I.n>ants  that  were  brought  to  Bip- 
*'  tifm,  were  wrapped  up  in  fuch  fine  Thing'',  and  fo  much 
*'  Pains  taken  to  dtefs  them,  that  one  would  think  they  were 
*'  brought  thither  to  be  initiated  into,  rather  than  to  renounce 
*'  the  Pomps  and  Vanities  of  this  wicked  World.  There  are 
*'  nine  Meeting- houfes  of  the  Congregational  Perfuafjon, 
**  one  Baptift,  one  French,  and  one  belonging  to  the  Scots 
*'  Irijh.  There  zre  two  tnonihly,  and  cr^  weekly  Lectures, 
*'  and  thofe  two  but  poorly  tended.  Several  Minifters  com- 
•*  plained  to  me  of  it.  I  mentioned  it  in  my  Scrmon<;,  and 
•*  I  truft  God  will  ftir  up  the  People  more  frequently  to  tread 
**  the  Courts  of  his  Houfe.  One  Thing  Bojton  is  very  re- 
**  markable  for,  the  external  Obfcrvation  of  the  Sabbath, 
•'  Men  in  civil  OfHces,  have  a  Regard  to  Religion.  The 
**  Governor  encourages  them  :  And  the  Minifters  and  Magi- 
•*  ftrates  are  more  united  than  in  any  other  Place  where  I 
**  have  been.  Both  were  exceedingly  civil  during  my  Stay  : 
**  I  never  faw  fo  little  Scoffing!'  Never  had  fo  little  Oppo- 
**  fition.  But  one  might  eafily  fee  how  much  would  hereafter 
*'  arife  when  I  come  to  be  more  particular  in  mv  Application 
**  to  particular  Perfons.  Fori  fear  many  reft  in  a  Head-Know* 
*'  ledge,  are  clofe  Pharifecs,  and  have  only  a 'Name  to  live. 
**  It  muft  needs  be  fo,  when  the  Power  of  Qodlincfs  is 
"  dwindled  away,  and  where  the  Form  only  of  Religion  is 
^*  become  fa{hionabIe  amongft  People.  However,  no  doubt, 
^'  there  are  a  few  Names  Uft  in  Sardis,  which  have  net  de- 
**  filed  their  Garments.  Many  Letters  Come  to  me,  as  far 
"  as  I  could  j'jdge,  from  truly  pious  People,  in  which  they 
Vi'.  heavily  complained  of  the  fad  Degeneracy  of  their  Times^ 
H'and  hoped  that  God  was  now  about  to  revive  his  Work  in 
J;  V'  the 


at    NEtr-EN GLAND,  45 

*^  the  MWft  of  the  Years.  Emn  fi^  Lord  JefuSy  Amen  an^ 
*'  Amen^  fay  I  with  my  whole  Heart,  i^or  Bofton  People  are- 
"  dear  to  my  Soul.  They  were  greatly  afFeiled  by  the  Word, 
'*  foliowed  Night  and  Day,  and  were  very  liberal  to  my  dear 
♦'Orphans.  Ipromifed,  God  willing,  to  vifit  them  again, 
♦'  and  intend  to  fulfil  my  Promifc,  when  it  Ihall  pleafe  God 
^'  to  bring  me  again  from  my  native  Country.  In  the  mean 
'*  while.  Dear  Bo?ion,  adieu.  The  Lord  be  with  thy  Mi- 
'-^  Jlers  and  People.,  and  grant  that  the  Remnant^  which  is 
^^  Jim  left  according  to  the  EleSiion  of  Grace,  may  take  Root 
*f:  downwards.,  and  hear  Fruit  upwards,  and  fill  ihe^  Land.    ^ 


Bojic 


}on  and  Concord.y-o  :;■  s^  :-jM.-nh 

•s^  norarinoD  adi 
Monday,  OSlober  i"^.  Took  an  affetSlionate  Leave  of'iliany 
dear  Friends,  efpecially  my  kind  Hoft  and  Hoftcfs-,-  who 
have  been  exceedingly  kind  to  me  and  mine,  and  wept  over 
me  at  my  Departure  from  them.  The  Lord  reivard  them  a 
thoufand  Fold!  Went  Vv'ith  the  Governor  in  his  Coach  to 
Charlejiown  Ferry.  He  took  me  to  the  Boat,  killed  me, 
and  with  Tears  in  his  Eyes  bid  me  farewell.  About  Noon, 
I  reached  Concord,  a  Town  eighteen  Miles  from  Bcfion. 
Heie  I  preached  to  fome  Thoufands  in  the  open  Air;  and 
comfortable  Preaching  it  was.  The  Hearers  were  fvyeetly 
melted  down.  About  45  /.  were  colledted  for- the  Orphans. 
The  Mmifterof  the  Town  being,  I  believe,  a  true  Child  of 
God,  I  chofe  to  ftay  all  Night  at  his  Houfe,  that  we  n>ight 
rejoice  together.  The  Lord  was  with  us.  The  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  came  upon  me,  and  God  gave  me  to  wreilk 
with  him  for  my  Friends,  efpecially  thofe  then  with  me; 
They  felt  his  Power.  Brother/'B — <-,  the  Minifter,  broke 
into  Floods  of  Tears,  and  vjl^d  Reafon  to  cry  out,  it  was 
good  for  us  to  be  here.  (^ bleffed  be  thy  Name,  O  Lard^ 
for  thefe  fwcet  Refrefnngs*  in  our  IVay  toivards  tho  heavenly 
Canaan. 


Sudbury,  Marlborough  and  Worcejier. 

Tuefday,  Odober  14.  Reached  Sudbury,  about  fix  Miles 
from  Concord z\io\xt  ten,  where  Mr.  L — g,  a  Man  of  God,  pre- 
fides.  Preached  to  fome  Thoufands  with  Power,  and  obferved 
a  confiderable  Commotion  in  the  AlTembly.  Got  to  Marl- 
borough,  eight  Miles  from  Sudbury  about  four.  Pleached  in 
the  Meeting  to  a  large  Congregation  :  At  firll  my  Heart  was 

dead. 


46  Mr.  Whitefield'^  yournal 

dead,  and  I  had  but  little  Freedom,  but  before  I  had  finifhed, 
the  Word  came  with  fuch  a  Demonftration  of  the  Spirit,  that 
great  Numbers  were  very  much  melted  down.  When  I  came 
into  the  Meeting-Houfe,  I  turned  about,  and  to  my  Sur- 
prize, faw  Governor  Belcher  there  \  he  was  aftedled,  and 
tho'  it  rained,  and  he  was  much  advanced  in  Years,  yet  he 
went  in  Company  with  us  as  far  as  Worchcjler^  15  Miles 
from  Marlborough^  whither  we  got  about  8  at  Night. — 
Here  we  were  kindly  entertained  at  the  Houfeof  one  Colonel 
C r.  We  Ipent  the  Remainder  of  the  Evening  very  agree- 
ably with  the  Governor,  and  after  Prayer  retired  to  Reft.  Oh 
thai  I  may  prove  rnyfelf  a  Difciple  of  that  Majier,  tOho^  ivhllji 
iaberiiaclirig  ksre  en  Earth,  had  not  where  to  lay  his  Head  f 

JVorceJler  and  Leicejicr, 

Wednefday^  05loher  15.  Perceived  the  Governor  to  be 
more  affectionate  than  ever.  After  Morning  Prayer  he  took 
me  by  myfclf,  ki/Fed  me,  *'  and  exhorted  me  to  zo  on  in 
"  flirting  up  the  Minifters."  For,  fays  he,  *'  Reforma- 
**  tion  muft  begin  at  the  Houfe  of  God."  As  we  were  go* 
ing  to  Meeting,  fays  he,  "  Mr.  White  field,  do  not  fpare 
*'  Rulers  any  more  than  Minifters,  no,  not  the  Chief  of 
<«  them."  I'preachcd  in  the  open  Air  to  fome  Thoufand?. 
The  Word  fell  with  much  Weight  indeed  :  It  carried  all  be- 
fore it.  After  Sermon  the  Governor  faid  to  me,  "  I  pray 
*«  God,  I  may  apply  what  has  been  faid  to  my  own  Heart." 
*'  Pray,  Mr.  IVhiicfield,  that  I  may  hunger  and  thirft  after 
*'  Righteoufnefs. ""Dinner  being  ended,  with  Tears  in  his  Eyes 
he  killed  me,  and  took  Leave  of  me, — 0  that  we  may  meet  in 
Heaven  !  I  have  obferved,  that  I  have  had  greater  Power 
*'  than  Ordinary,  whenever  rtie  Governor  has  been  at  public 
««  Worihip.  A  Sign  this,  1  hope,  that  tiie  Moft  High  in- 
"«f  tends  to  let  him  at  his  Right-Hand."  Even  fo,  Lordjc- 
Jus^  Amen  and  Amen.  Was  enabled  much  to  rejoice  in 
Spirit.  Preached  in  the  Afternoon  at  Leicefier^  6  Miles 
from  IVorcefur^  vq\i\\  fime,  tho'  not  fo  much  Po\\'er  as  in 
the  Morning.  Got  to  Brodkfieldhy  Night,  anfl  was  upoh  the 
Mount  indeed.  My  Soul  was  upon  the  Wing;  I  ex- 
ceedingly enlarged,  and  was  enabled,  as  it  were,  to  take  the 
Kingdom  of  God  by  Force.  Oh !  JVhat  precious  Hours 
are  tho fe,  when  we  are  thus  'Jlvcn^ihened,  as  it  zvere,  lo  lay 
'ho*d'on  God:  Oh  that  we  Jhsuld  ever  cajl  oiirfehes  down  Jroi^n 
fb'efe  Frames  !   God  be  merciful  to  me  a  Sinn&j  !    \      . 

Brook- 


<it    NEW-ENGLAND,         47 
Broolijield  and  CoId^Sprifzg. 

Thurfday^  Osiober  1 6.  Rofe  in  great  Dejedion  of  Sou!  at  the 
Confideiation  of  indwelling  Sin.  Retired,  and  wept  before 
the  Lord.  Preached  not  with  extraordinary  Freedom  at  firft, 
but  at  laft  the  Word  ran,  and  melted  many  do/v-n.  A'ttr 
Dinner  was  much  enlarged  again,  and  ftrengthened  to  wrellle 
ftrongly  with  God,  for  a  Revival  of  his  Work  in  thefe  Parts. 
Preached  at  Cold- Spring,    15    Miles  from   Brookfield^    at  the 

Houfe  of  Mr.  L 7id  to   3  or  400  People,  but  perceived 

little  moving,  except  a  itv^  Minutes.  Spent  the  Evening 
with  my  dear  Fellow- Travellers.  Was  fomewhat  cafl  down, 
but  afterwards  recover'd  Sweetnefs  and  Freedom  of  Soul,  by 
retiring,  and  pouring  out  my  Complaints  and  Petitions  be- 
fore the  dear  Lurd  Jefus.  Oh  the  fovereign^  dijiinguijking 
Freenefs  of  God't,  Grace.  If  it  was  not  for  the  Corfideration 
cf  thaty  my  Soul  tnufl  he  continually  pierced  through  and 
^through  with  many  Sorrows.  Lord^  for  thy  Mercies  Sake, 
nciffr  fuffer  me  to  let  this  Confideration  go^  Amen,  Lord  Jefus^ 
Amen. 

Hadley  and  Northampton. 

Friday,  O£fober  17.  Set  out  as  foon  as  it  was  Light,  and 
reached  Hadley,  a  Place  where  a  great  Work  wss  begun, 
and  carried  on  fome  Years  ago  ;  but  lately  the  People  of 
God  have  complained  of  Deadnefs  and  lofing  their  firft  Love, 
However,  as  foon  as  I  mentioned  what  God  had  done  for 
rheir  Souls  formerly,  it  v»'as  like  putting  Fire  to  Tinder. — 
The  Remembrance  of  it  quickned  them,  and  caufed  many 
to  weep  forely.  When  I  had  taken  a  little  Refrefhment,  we 
crofTed  the  Ferry  to  Northampton,  where  no  lefs  than  300 
Souls,  as  was  fuppofed,  v.-Te  favingly  brought  Home  to  the 
dear  Lord  Jefus  about  5  or  6  Years  ago:  Their  Paftor's 
Name  is  Edwards,  SuccefTcr  and  Grandfon  to  the  great 
Stoddard,  vvhofe  Memory  will  be  always  precious  to  my 
Soul,  and  vvhofe  Books  entitled  "  A  Guide  to  Chrift,"  and 
♦'  Safety  of  appearing  in  Chrifl's  Rigbteoufnefs,"  I  would 
recommend  to  all.  Mr.  Ed-wards  is  a  fulid,  excellent  Chri- 
fiian,  buc  at  pref^nt  v/eak  in  Body.  I  thirik,  I  may  fay  I 
have  nut  fc;en  his  Fellow  in  all  New  England.  When  I  cpme 
into  hiS  Pulpit,  I  found  my  Heart  drawn  out  to  talk  of  fcarce 
any  Thing  befides   the  Conlbiations   and  Privileges  of  Saint?, 

and 


2nd  the  plentiful  Eff«fion  of  the-  Spirit  upon  the  HFearts  o''' 
BeSevers.  ■  And,  when  I  came  to  remind  them  of  their  form 
cr  Experiences,   and  how  zealous' and  lively  they  were  at  that 
TiHie^  hoth  Minlfter  and  People  wept  miich  ;  and  the  Holy 
Ghoft  cnabled'rne  jto  fpeak  with  a  great  deal  of  Power.  In  the 
Evening,  I  ^ave  a  Word  of  Exhortation  to  feveral  that  came"^^^ 
to  Mv-Edwards's  Houfe.  My  Body  was  fomewhat  weak';  nry'^'^* 
Appetite  ahnoft  gone;   But  my  Lord  gave  me  -Meat,  vchich\^'^ 
the- W^oHd  knows  mtb'mg  of:  ■  Lord,    everrrwre-givc  me  thi^^ 
Brea^iAfAtrfmd^Ps.mtn.^f  ebiii woi  qu  oanji  ffnuai  yx.w   luo2 

'■';^^  ]';''\,  '''^J^adfield  and  ''■Ndrihampthn.  ^^* 

SatiMay,  O^ober    18.  -At  Mr.    Edwards's   Requefl,    T^. 
fpoke.  to -his   little   Children,    who  were  much  affeJled.~  * 
Preached  at  -Hadfield  5  Miles  from  Northampton,  but   foun(f '''^ 
myfelf  aot  much  ftrengthened.     Converfed  profitably  on  thd'"^' 
Way  about  the  Things   of  God  with   dear  Mr.  Edwards^ 
and  preached  about  4  in  the  Afternoon   to  his  Congregation. 
I  began  it  With  Fear  and  TremWing,,  feeling  but  little  PoWef 
jn  HiaMorning,   but  God  alTiftcd  me.    Few  dry  Eyes  feemetf 
to  be   in  the  AiTembly   for  a   confic'crable   Time.       I   had  '"" 
an   afFeding  Profpedl  m   my  own   Heart  of  the  Glories  of 
the   upper  VVorld<  and   was  enabled   to  fpeak  of  them   feel- 
ingly to  others.     I  belitve  many  were  filled,  as  it  Vvere,  with 
neW':Wine.     And  it  fecmed   as  if  a  Time  of  Refrefliing  waj 
coftfte  from  the  Prtfence  of  the  Lord.     Even  fo^  come  Lur'H'^' 
jfeTttf^'caviequrcMy,   Amen  and  Amt:n.  "''..* 

ilk^k^\k)£fU'ir'''i^/'f^it  ^nderful   Satisfaftion   In  Wifrl'"' 
at  5the'  Hotffe  Vf'^Mr^'^^^U'^r/^^^^     He  is  a  Sen   himfelf,  arid'^' 
han'alfo'a'-D.^oghrerof  Mrahain  for  h's  Wife.     A  fweetef;^ 
CcA^'plc   I  "^-Lirvie  not   y(?t*fecrn.      Their  Children  were  drefTed'* 
no?'h!*Siii:s';:ad''Satins,*b"\ic  plain,  "as  becomes  the  Children  of'"' 
thore^'who,'  in  ■allThiii^.s  ou2^t  tb  lie  Examples  of  Chrifiiafi "'' 
Sirniplicity';     **'She  Is  a  Woman  adorn'd  with   a  meek  and 
*'  milS  SpTriti  t"alk^tl\feclurgly'ada  foli'dly  of  the  Things  of 
"  V"^»  ^/"jJ  "f^tWt^d  to'  be  fiTciT  ^  Hdp  rftJet  for  her  Husband, 
*'  tHat  flirc:TM.rdjf"coe  to  rcnevv^hofe  Prayers,  which,  for  feme   ^ 
*'  i^Mlis::!  hiWput  'up'toGo^^  thaViic  would  be  pTcaferf' 
«'  tft  feiid 'We*a  Efaugh'ter  oCMrah^am-to   ^e  'nTy  Wife;*'^''''" 
"  T'nftcij  up  in  many  Accoifcts,   ic  is  my  Duty  to  marrv.--- 

"  Lurd 


ct    NEW-ENGLAND.         49 

*'  Lord  1  defirc  to  have  no  Choice  of  my  own.  Thoa 
**  knoweft  my  Circumftances;  thou  knoweft  I  only  defire 
*'  to  marry  in  and  for  thee,  l^hou  did  ft  chufe  a  Rebecca 
*'  for  IJaacy  chufe  one  for  me  to  be  a  Help  meet  for  me, 
**  in  carrying  on  that  great  Work  committed  to  my. 
*'  Charge."  Lord,  hear  ?ne.,  Lord^  let  tny  Cry  come  unto  thee* 
Preached  this  Morning,  collected  59  /.  and  perceived  the 
Meeting  begin  fooner,  and  rife  higher  than  before.  Deaf 
Mr.  Edwards  wept  during  the  whole  Time  of  Exercife.— 
Tiie  People  were  equally,  if  not  more  affected,  and  my  own 
Soul  was  much  lifted  up  towards  God.  In  the  Afternoon 
the  Power  increafed  yet  mure  and  more.  Our  Lord  feemed 
to  keep  the  good  Wine  to  the  iaft.  I  have  not  feen  four  fuch 
gracious  Meetings  together  fince  my  Arrival.  My  Soul  was 
much  knit  to  thefc  dear  People  of  God,  and,  tho'  I  had  not 
Time  to  converfe  with  them  about  their  Experiences,  yet 
one  might  fee,  that  for  the  rnoft  Part,  they  were  a  gracious 
tender  People;  and,  tho'  their  former  Fire  might  be  greatly 
abated,  yet  it  immediately  appeared,  when  ftirred  up.  Oh 
that  my  Soul  may  be  refrejhed  ivith  the  joyful  News,  that 
Northampton  People  have  recovered  their  jirjl  Love  j  that 
the  Lord  has  revived  his  JVork  in  their  dear  Soulsy  and  caujed 
them  to  do  their  firji  Works  ! 

Wejlfield  and  S^prim field. 

Monday y  O£lober  20.  Left  Northampton  in  the  Evenings 
rode  very  pleafantly  18  Miles  to  JV cj} field  \  converfed  with 
a  poor  Woman  on  a  fick  Bed,  who  gave  an  Account  of  fome 
Difcoveries  (he  had  of  our  Lord's  redeeming  Love,  Met 
with  a  little  Book,  written  by  Dr.  Cotton  Matther,  entitled. 
The  Ornaments  of  the  Daughters  of  Zion,  which  I  would 
recommend  to  all,  efpecially  the  Bojion  Ladies.  Preached 
in  the  Morning  to  a  pretty  large  Congregation,  and  with 
conliderable  Power  at  the  latter  End.  Hafted  to  Springfield 
about  ten  Miles  from  Wefifi.sld.  Croffed  a  Ferry  ;  preached 
to  a  large  Auditory,  and  then  returned  and  preached  to  thof« 
who  could  not  get  over  the  Ferry,  by  Reafon  of  the  Wind, 
The  Meeting- Houfe  was  full — God's  Power  was  with  me 
both  Times,  but  efpecially  at  the  Iaft.  My  Soul  was  much 
carried  out  in  Prayer,  and  the  Lord  fo  ftrengthened  me  in  tha 
inner  Man,  that  I  could  have  preached  another  Sermon  af-» 
ter  I  had  done.  A  little  ifcer  I  left  Springfield^  my  Horfe, 
coming  over  a  broken  Bridge,  threw  me  ovej  hi>  Head,  di- 
*  G  tKiWf 


5<>        Mr.  Wh  I 'T  F  I  E  L  D'i  Journal 

reflly  upon  tny  Nofe.  The  Fall  ftunri'd  me  for  i  while — 
My  Mouth  was  full  of  Duft,  I  bled  a  little,  but  falling  upon 
folt  Sand,  got  not  much  Damage.  After  I  had  recovered  my 
felf,  and  mounted  my  Horfe,  God  fo  filled  me  with  a  Senfe 
of  his  fovereign,  diftinguifliing  Love,  and  my  own  Unwor- 
thinefs,  that  my  Eyes  gufhed  out  with  Tears ;  but  they  were 
all  Tears  of  Love.  Oh  !  how  did  I  want  to  fmk  before  the 
High  and  lofty  One,  who  inhabitctb  Eternity  !  I  felt  myfeif 
lefs  than  Nothing  ;  and  yet  knew  that  Jefus  was  my  All  in 
All.  The  divine  Prefence  was  ilrong  upon  me  all  the  Even- 
ing. We  flopped  at  a  Friend's  Houfe  about  4  Miles  from 
Springfield ;  took  proper  Refrcfhmcnt,  and  then  went  to 
Reft,  defiring  not  to  be  unthankful  for  the  peculiar  Favours 
conferred  upon  me  the  Night  paft.  Lord,  they  are  noted  in 
thy  Book.  Oh  let  them  be  alfo  written  en  the  Tables  of  mine 
Heart, 


Sitffield  and  IVindfo 


'or 


Tucfday,  OHoher  21.  Set  out  for  Nuffield  about  8  Miles 
from  the  Place  where  I  lay.  Reached  thither,  and  preached 
about  II  o'clock  to  feveral  Thoufands  of  People.  Meeting 
with  a  Miniiter  in  the  Way,  who  faid  *'  It  was  not  abfb- 
*'  lutely  necelTary  for  a  Gofpel  Minifter,  that  he  fhould  be 
*'  converted  •"  I  infilled  much  in  my  Difcourfe  upon  the 
Docfrine  of  the  New- Birth,  and  alfo  the  Neceflity  of  a  Mi- 
nifter's  being  converted,  before  he  could  preach  Chrift  aright. 
The  Word  came  with  great  Power,  and  a  great  Impreflion 
was  made  upon  the  People  in  all  Parts  of  the  AiTembly.  Ma- 
jiy  Miniilers  were  prefent.  I  did  not  fpare  them.  Moft  of 
.them  thanked  me  for  my  plain  Dealing  :  But  one  was  offend- 
ed, and  fo  would  more  of  his  Sramp,  if  I  was  to  continue 
longer  in  New-England.  For  unconverted  Minifters  are  the 
ijaiic  of  tlie  Chriftian  Church  :  And,  thu'  I  honour  the  Me- 
mory of  that  great  and  good  Man  Mr.  Stoddard  ;  yet  I 
think  he  is  much  to  be  blamed  for  endeavouring  to  prove  that 
:unconvcrted  Men  might  be  admitted  irijo  the  Miniftry. — 
How  he  lus  handled  the  Controvcrfy,  Lknow  not.  I  think 
no  folid  Arguments  can  be  brought  to  defend  fuch  a  Caufe. 
But  the  bcft  of  Men  are  permitted  to  err  that  we  may  know 
^,(they  are  but  Men.  A  Sermon  lately  publiflicd  by  Mr.  Gil- 
Vert  Tennenty  entitled,  "  The  D.mger  of  an  unconverted 
.,5-^.. Miniftry,"  I  think  unanfwerable.  As  I  was  riding  to 
"7?7/;.//cr  alter  Dinner,  a.a  old  Man  came  up  tome,  faying, 

♦'  He 


at    NEW^ENGLAN D.  51 

**  He. knew  what  I  had  preached  in  the  Morning  was  true  ; 
<«  I  have  felt  it,  fays  he,  I  was  under  the  Spirit  of  Bondage 
f*;,- 20 ,  Years,  and  have  received  tlic  Spirit  of  Adoption  23 
#- -years,"  Another  came,  giving  me  an  Account  of  his 
Experiences,  and  the  People  of  God  feemed  much  revived  at 
Wind/or^  where,  as  I  am  informed,  a  true  converted  Man  is 
Minifter.  I  preached  in  the  Afternoon  with  fuch  Freedom,  that 
.a»youngMinifter,  who  had  heard  me  feveral  Times,  told  me, 
<*  I  had  kept  the  good  Wine  until  now."  As  foon  as  Sermon 
was  over,  I  rode  about  a  Mile  and  a  half,  and  preached  to  a 
throng'd  Congregation,  belonging  to  old  Mr.  Edvjards,  Fa- 
ther to  Mr. Edwards  of  Northampton^  and  I  believe  a  true  Difci- 
ple  and  Minifter  of  the  Lord  Jefus  Chrift.  My  Body  was  fome- 
what  weak,  and  I  was  not  fo  much  afli(ted.  But  it  is  the 
Xord — He  knows  beft  when  to  difpenfe,  and  when  to  fuf- 
pend  his  Aids.  After  Exercift  we  fupped  at  theHoufe  of  old 
Mr.  Edwards.  His  Wife  was  as  aged,  I  believe,  as  him- 
felf,  and  I  fancied  that  I  was  fitting  in  the  Houfe  of  a  Za~ 
chary  and  Elizabeth.  Indeed  I  felt  great  Satisfaction  in  my 
Soul,  and  parted  from  him  and  his  Son  (who  came  with  me 
fo  far)  with  fome  inward  Regret.  But,  blefled  be  God,  we 
ihall  meet  again  in  Eternity.  Lord^  grant  that  I,  may  al- 
ways comfort  myfelf  with  this  Thought  ! 

Hartford  and  Weathersjield. 

tri>  Wednejday^  OHober  22.  Preached  to  many  Thoafands, 
-and  with  much  Freedom  and  Power  in  the  Morning  ;  and  to 
about  the  fame  Number  at  JFeathersfield^  three  Mdes  fvoni 
Hartford.,  in  the  Afternoon.  Here  my  Soul  was  refrefhed 
by  the  coming  of  yit^x^JVheelock  and  Pomeroy^  two  young, 
faithful,  and  zealous  Minifters  of  Jefus  Chrift,  which  much 
revived  me.  This  Morning  I  intended  to  go  and  preach  at 
both  their  Places ;  as  alfo  to  Ply  mouthy  Rhode- IJland^  he. — 
But  God  fhexved  me  to  Davi  it  was  inconfiltent  with"  my 
other  Buhnefs  upon  many  Accounts.  And  therefore,  after 
Prayer  and  Confultation  with  my  Friends,  I  refolved  to.  go 
dire£tly   to  New-York.     Accordingly,  'at  Night,'   I    rode  to 

.  Middle  Town,  lo  Milzs  hora  IP^eathcrsfeldy  and  Was  enter- 
tained at  the  Houfe  of  Mr.  Rujely  the  Minifter  of  the'PJace, 
and,  I  think,  an  Ifraellte  indeed,  and  one,  who,  I  hear, 
has  been  long  mourning  over  the  Deadnefs  of  Pfofe^rs;  Oh 

:  that  all  Minljicrs  ivere  like  minded  !  ■        '  -    ',"'<-'    lY^^- 


:.v-  -       ■■        .     t  ■.:...  .         _,;,  r-r..:  lr_,0 

.   Tuefday,   OSfober  23.  Was  lujuch  pleafed  with  the;  §inFVn 
plicity  of  our  Hoft,  and  the  Order  wherein   his  Children  at^ 
tended  on    their  Family  Devotions.     Preached  to  about  400a 
People  (^  eat  Numbers  of  which  were  coofiderablv  affected) 
about    n   o'clock.      Preached    again    in   the  Afternoon    at 
JVallingsford^  fourteen   Miles  from   Adiddletown  ;    and   then 
rode  to    New-Haven,  fourteen  Miles   farther,  where  I  v/as 
jnoft  afFedl'cnately    received    by    Mr.    Pierpoiut,    Brother   to 
Mr.  Edwards  of  Northampton.     As  I  came  along  I  foimd 
wonderful  Freedom  in  my  Soul  for  declining  to  go  fo  long  a 
Circuit  as  was  propofed.     I  converfed    profitably  with  a  god- 
ly, zealous  Mmifter   from  Long  JJland,  and  when  I  came  to 
New-Haven^  I  found  God    ftrengthening   my  inner  ^an. — 
I  wreftied  in  Prayer,  in   Company  with   my    dear  Fellow- 
Travellers,  and   am  perfuaded   the  Lord   did   not    let  us  go 
without  his  BlefTing.    Ob  that  %uc  may  fit  down  in  ibx  King- 
dom of  Heaven  ! 

hi  ElV^  HAVEN. 

Friday^  Oaober  24.   Was   refrefhed  wish  the  Sight  of  dear 
^r.  Noble  of  Ncw-Tork,  who  alfo  brought   me  Letters  from 
Georgia.     Blefled   be  God,  the  Orphan- Houfe  Affairs  go  on 
profperoufly.       The   Lord   is   with    my   dear    Family   of  a 
.  Truth.     Declined  preaching  in   the  Morning,  becaufc  it  was 
^  wet,  and  the  People  had   no  Notice  of   my  Coming,  and  I 
"had   much   private  Bulinefs  on    my  Hands.     Perceived  my 
Health  grow  better.     Preached  in  the  Afternoon  with  Power 
rtowards  the  latter  End  of  the  Sermon,  and  obferved   fome 
deeply  aff'ecSled  indeed.     It  being  the  Time  in  which  the  Af- 
fembly  met,  the  Governor,  Council,  and  the  Gentlemen  of 
the  lower   Houfe  were  prtfent.     After  Sermon,    two   young 
Minirters,  who  fecmed   to  have  fome   Experience  of  divine 
Things,  came  to  converfe  with  me,  and  in  theEvening'I  ex- 
pounded at  my  Lodgings   to  a  Room   full   of  People.     l"bc 
Power  of  the  Lord  was  upon  me,  I  fpake  with  much  Weight 
and  Freedom,  and  had  {wct:t  Fellowfhip  with  i;^y  dear  Com- 
panions afterwards.      Oh  /  who  vj-iuld  bat  travel  for  Chri/i  ? 
Saturday,   Q,^ober  25.   Wds  again  refreflied   this  Morrving 
/hv  the  Si^ht  of  lyir,  Jedcdi^h  Afills,  a  dear   Man- of  Gcd, 
'''^Wi^tT  zi  Riptoax  near  Sti^at ford.     He  wrote  to  me  fome 

lime 


Time  ago.  I  felt  his  Letter,  and  now  alfo  felt  the  Man- 
My  Soul  was  much  unitech  to  him.'  1  could  not  but  think 
God  would  do  great  Things  by  hjs  Hands,  He.  has  had  a  re- 
markable Word  in  his  Parifo  fome  Time  ago,  and  talked 
like  one  that  was  no  Novice  in  divine  Things.  With  hirS 
r  dined  at  the  Rev.  Mr.C — 's,  R'edor  of  New- Haven  CollegeiJ 
about  one  third  Part  as  Big  as  that  of  Cambridge.  It  has  one  Req* 
tor,  three  Tutors,  and  about  a  hundred  Students  :  But  f 
hear  of  no  remarkable  Concern  amongft  them  concerning  Re- 
ligion. I  preached  twice  to  the  Confolation  of  God's  Peo- 
ple, many  of  which,  I  have  heard,  Wvq  zt  ISfewHaVeti,  and 
the  Countries  round  about.  There  were  fweet  Meltings  dif- 
cernible  both  Times.  I  fpoke  very  clofely  to  the  Students, 
and  (liewed  the  dreadful  Ill-Confequences  of  an  unconverted 
Miniftry.  Dear  Mr.'  Mills,  when  he  took  hi?  Leave,  told 
me  pf  one  Minifler  iii  particular,  who  had"  been  Wrouglit 
upon  before,  but  now  ^\'as  gone  Home  as  full  as  he  could 
hold.  Oh  that  God  may  quicken  Minifters  !  Oh  thai  the 
Lord  may  7nake  them  a  Jlaming  Fire  !  Come  Lord  Jefus^  co?ne 
quickly^  Amen  <7;/<^  Amen.  " 

Sunday,  OSfober  26.   Preached  both  Morning  and  Evening 
to  mucn  larger  Congregations  than  before,    and   in   the  Af- 
ternoon obferved  an  efpecial  Prefence  ot   God  in  the  Ailem- 
bly.     Many,   I    believe,    were  comforted   and   quickned  by 
the  Holy  Ghoft.     The  People  of  God  fent  me  "VVord,    t£(at 
they  were   much  revived,    and   one  came  and   told  me  that 
theifc  Words  were  lately  prefled  upon  her  Hcs^n^  The  IVinier 
is  gone y  the  Spring  is  coming  on,  the  Foice  of  the  Turtle  is  heard 
in  the  Land.     Indeed  I  believe  this  will  bean  acceptable  Year 
of  the   Lord.      Before  E>'ening  Service,  the  following  Note 
was  put  into  my  Hand,   by   one  who  came  to  me  a  Day  or 
two  ago,  fome  Miles  ofF,  under  Diitrefs,  and^   tho'  but  weak 
in    Body,    could    not  but  follow   me,  *'  Qne  Self-righteous  9 
*'  Pharifee  reding  in  Duties,  who  "hath  a  rational  Belief  of 
3**  his  damned  Eftate,  and   that   he  never,  felt   the  Pangs -of 
■'»^*  the  New- Birth,  defires  your  Prayers  to  that  God  that  hath 
-^*  faid.  Ye  niujl  he  horn  again.''     After  Sermon  I  waited  on 
^f'the  Governor  :  I  obfcYved  him  to  be  much  a^ifted  under  the 
3^Word.     When  I  came  in,  h,eTaid,  ''  I  am  glad,.  Sir,  to  fee 
"■™*  you,  and  heartily  glid  to  hear  you."'  ,  His  Heart  vvasTo 
'^jfoll  that  he  could   not  fpcak. much.      The,  Tears    trickled 
S'^wn  his  aged  Cheeks  Tike  Drops  of  Rain.  *'  He  was  tjiank- 
,b«f.  fii]  to  God",  he  faidj  for.rach.,Refrel3iing§,^in  'dur  .Way',  to 
amok  am  c;  .>3?n\    -l\      \,-^'A\vc,:.  u-.?""   r/.^-..-^  v.  ^^^   '^^^^ 

amiT' 


5^  Mr,  Whitefield'j  Journal 

,%'Our  Reft.  Food  does  us  Good,  when  we  cat  it  with  an 
^^  Appetite."  And  indeed,  I  believe  he  had  fed  upon  the 
Word.  The  Lord  fupport  him^  ivhen  his  Strength  faihtb  him^ 
and  bring  his  grey  Hairs  with  Comfort  to  the  Grave  !  In  the 
Evening  I  expounded  at  my  Lodgings  to  a  great  Number  of 
People,  and  colleded  upwards  of  35  /.  for  the  Orphans.  My 
Soul  was  much  refreflied  to  hear  how  the  Children  of  God 
"were  revived  under  the  Word  preached.  And  nothing  con- 
firms me  more  that  I  have  been  taught  of  God,  and  preach 
the  Truth  as  it  is  m  Jefus,  than  to  find  our  Lord's  dear 
old  Difciples,  feeling  the  Power  of  the  Word  wherever  I  go, 
faying,  "  Its  agrees  with  their  Experiences."  My  Sheep  hear 
my  Voice,  fays  our  Redeemer,  A  Stranger  will  they  not  hear. 
About  eight  at  Night  we  left  Neiu-Havcn.  The  Moon 
fhone  bright,  and,  after  we  had  rode  three  Miles,  we  ar- 
rived at  a  Houfe,  which,  as  a  faithful  Miniller  told  me  be- 
fore, *'  was  full  of  God."  I  think,  they  tell  me  the  Mo- 
ther and  three  Daughters  were  converted  Perfona.  As  foon 
as  I  came  into  the  Houfc,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  came 
upon  me.  God  gave  me  to  wreftle  with  him,  and  my 
Friends  faid  at  departing  they  u'ere  never  in  fuch  a  Houfe 
before.  Oh  it  was  a  fweet  Time  indeed  !  God  made  his 
Power  to  be  felt  and  known.  After  I  had  given  a  Word  of 
Exhortation,  that  they  would  ftudy  to  adorn  the  Gofpel  of 
our  Lord  in  all  Things,  we  went  forward  on  our  Journey, 
znd  got  to  Mil/or dy  10  Miles  from  New-Havcny  about  ten 
at  Night.  The  Lord's  Name  be  prai Jed  from  the  rifing  up  of 
the  Sun,  unto  the  going  doiun  of  tJje  fame.    Amen  and  Amen. 

Milford  and  Stratford. 

Monday,  October  27.  Preached  this  Morning  at  Milfrrd^ 
and,  I  think,  with  as  much  Ciearnefs,  Freedom  and  Power 
as.l  have  for  a  long  St'afon.  The  Prefcnce  of  God  wasmucli 
in  the  Alltmbly,  which  was  large.  Many  Minifters  v/ere 
prefent,  and  they  could  not  iieip  glorifying  God  muc^in 
my  Behalf.  Dear  Mr.  yW/V/j,  wiio  came  agaii\  to  meet  Bi;e 
this  Morning,  was  much  afftded,  and  as  I  was  riding  out  of 
.Town  a  godly  Gentleman  met  me,  and  with  Tears  m  his 
Eyes,  faid,  •'  I  ney§f  faw  God's  Prefcnce  in  the  Sandluary 
•\'.jon  this  wife  beforei  it. has  been  a  blefi'ed  Time  to  my 
-«ifc  Soul,"  or_  Wor.ds  to  that  Effe(fl.  In  the  AitermJKjn  I 
preached  at  Stratford^  four  Mil<^3  from  Milfi^rd, :hixtvf^  not. 
-io  much  aflilled  as  in  the  MorAUig.- :  Both  Place.^,  efpecially 
,  '  :.  the 


^WEfF^  ENGLAN  Di  55 

the  latter,  were  ill  reported  of,  for  their  leaning  too  much 
towards  Armlnian  Principles,  O  Lord^  convince  them  of  the 
Rottennefs  of  their  Foundation,  and^nng  th^  is  know  the 
Truth  as  it  is4n  Jefus.  m  •.:/•.;.-    -     >,  -■ 

\o  ■  ■  .    - 

X^'  Fairfield  2.nA  Newafk, 

"^'Tuefde^,  Oiioher  28.  Got  to  Fairfield^  eight  Miles  from 
Stratford,  about  10  laft  Night.  The  Weather  was  very  cold, 
it  having  fnowed  a  great  Part  of  the  Afternoon  ;  but  the 
Lord  brought  us  on  in  Safety.  Preach'd  in  the  Morning  to  a 
confiderable  Congregation,  and  found  myfelf  aflifted  very 
much  in  Prayer  after  Sermon.  I  fcarce  knew  how  to  leave 
off.  In  the  Afternoon  at  Newark,  12  Miles  from  Fairf  eld, 
r  was  reftrain'd  much  both  in  Prayer  and  Preaching. — It 
rained  greatly,  fo  that  we  had  not  a  very  large  Congregation  : 
Ho_wever,  fome  (I  obferved)  were  affeded.  /  believe  tny 
3jbrd  never  lets  me  preach  in  vain. 

Y' .  Stanford  and  Rye, 

Wednefday^  OSfober  29.  Came  hither  laft  Night  in  Safety, 
tho*  it  was  dark  and  rainy.  Was  vifited  with  a  great  inward 
Trial,  fo  that  1  was  pained  at  the  Heart.  Was  fomewhat 
dejedled  before  I  went  out  of  my  Lodgings,  and  diftreffed  for 
a  Text  after  I  got  up  into  the  Pulpit ;  but  the  Lord  directed 
me  to  one  :  And  though  I  looked  for  no  Power  or  Suc- 
cefs,  being  fomewhat  low  by  my  laft  Night's  Trial,  yet  be- 
fore I  had  preached  half  an  Hour,  the  blefied  Spirit  began  to 
move  on  the  Hearers  Hearts  in  a  very  awful  Manner. 
Young,  and  efpecially  many  old  People  were  furprifingly  af- 
fe6ted  ;  fo  that  I  thought  they  would  have  cried  out.  At 
Dinner  the  Spirit  of  tlie  Lord  came  upon  me  again,  and  en- 
abled me  to  fpeak  with  fuch  Vigour  againfl:  fending  uncon- 
verted Minifters  into  the  Mini'Jry,  that  two  Minilters  with 
Tears  in  their  Eyes,  publickly  confeffed  that  they  had  Iain 
Hands  on  two  young  Men  without  fo  much  as  asking  them, 
*'  whether  they  were  born  again  of  God,  or  not  V  After 
Dinner,  finding  my  Heart  much  enlarged,  I  prayed,  and 
■with  fuch  Power,  that  mod:  in  the  Room  were  put  under 
Concern,  and  one  old  Miniiter  was  io  deeply  conviifted,  that 
calhng  Mr.  Noble  and  me  out,  with  great  Difficulty,  (be- 
caufe  of  his  weeping)  he  defired  our  Prayers :  "  For,  fays 
'^'■he,  I  have  been  a  Scholar,  and  hive  preached  the  Dot- 
»^^  *  I  -  trmes 


1$  Mr,  W  H  I  T  E  r  1  E  L  D'i  yournal 

*'  trines  of  Grace  a  long  Time  j  but  I  believe  I  ha\e  never 
**  felt  the  Power  of  them  in  my  own  Soul ;"  or  Words  to 
that  efte£l.  O  that  all  unconverted  Mhujiers  were  brought 
1o  make  the  fame  Confejjion  !  I  was  much  afFedled  with  hh 
Ingenuity,  and  after  having  by  Prayer  recommended  him  to 
God,  I  took  Horfe,  rejoicing  exceedingly  in  Spirit,  to  fee 
how  our 'Lord  was  getting  himfelf  the  Vit5tory,  in  a  Place 
where  Mr.  Davenport,  a  Native  of  Stanford.^  a  dear  ^^mi- 
fler  of  the  blefled  Jefus,  had  been  flighted  and  defpifed.  A 
Prophet  is  not  without  Honour^  favc  in  his  own  Country  and  his 
Father  s  Houfe. 

But  here  I  think  it  proper  to  fet  up  my  Ebcnezer^  before 
I  enter  into  the  Province  of  Neiu-Tork^  to  give  God  Thanks 
for  fending  me  to  Kctv-England.  *<  I  have  now  had  an  Op- 
*'  portunity  of  feeing  the  greatcft  and  moft  populous  Part  of 
*'  it,  and  take  it  all  together,  it  certainly  on  many  Accounts 
*'  exceeds  all  other  Provinces  in  Jmerica  ;  and,  for  the  E- 
*'  ftablifliment  of  Religion,  perhaps  all  other  Parts  of  the 
**  World.  Never,  furely,  was  a  Place  fo  well  fettled  in  fo 
*«  (hort  a  Time.  The  Towns  all  through  Conneclicut  and 
*'  Eallward  towards  Tork^  in  the  Province  of  Majfachiifets, 
**  near  the  River-fide,  are  large,  well  peopled,  and  exceed- 
*'  ing  pleafant  to  travel  through.  Every  five  Miles,  or 
*'  perhaps  lefs,  you  have  a  Meeting  houfe,  and,  1  believe, 
*'  there  is  no  fuch  thing  as  a  Pluralill  or  Non-refident  Mi- 
*^  nifter  in  both  Provinces.  Many,  nay  moft  that  preach, 
*'  I  fear  do  not  experimentally  knowChrift;  yet  I  cannot 
♦'■  fee  much  woildlv  Advantage  to  tempt  them  to  take  upon 
"  them  the  facred  Fundtion.  Few  Country  Minifters,  as  I 
*'  have  been  informed,  have  fufficient  allowed  them  in  Money 
*'  to  maintain  a  Familv.  God  has  remarkably,  in  iundry 
'*  Times  and  in  divers  Manners,  poured  out  his  Spirit  in  fe- 
*'  veral  Parts  of  both  Provinces ;  and  it  often  refreshed  my 
"  Soul  to  hear  of  the  Faith  (^i  their  good  Forefathers,  who 
'*  firft  fettled  in  thcfc  Parts.  Notwithftanding  they  had  the;: 
*'  Foibles,  furely  they  were  a  Set  of  righteous  Men.  They 
**  certainly  followed  our  I^ord's  Rule,  fought  frf  the  King- 
*'  dom.  of  God  and  his  Right ccvfnrfs,  and  bd;Id  all  cthef^ 
*'  Things  God  added  unto  them.  Their  Seed  are  now  blef- 
**  fed  in  temporal  'Filings  crpeclally,  and  notwithftanding 
*'  the  Riling  Generation  feem  to  be  fettled  on  their  Lees,  yet 
**  I  believe  the  Lord  hath  left  more  than  70CO,  who  have 
**  not  bowed  their  Kncci  to  Baal.  "Fhe  Alimftera  and  Peo- 
•*  pie  of  Conne^iiUt  ftcmed    to  be  more  fimple  than  thole 

jTt, 


'--'  at    N  EW^rORK,     ■  ^'j 

**"that  live  near5^f3W,  efpecially  in  thofe  Parts  where  I  went : 
"But  I  think  the  Minifters  Preaching  almoft  univeTfally  by 
"  Note,  is  a  certain  Mark  they  have,  in  a  great  Meafure, 
**  loft  the  old  Spirit  of  Preaching.  For  tho'  all  are  not  to 
**  be  condemned  that  ufe  Notes,  yet  it  is  a  fad  Symptom  of 
*'  the  Decay  of  vita!  Religion,  when  reading  Sermons  be- 
**  comes  fafliionable  where  extempore  Preaching  did  once  al- 
*«  moil:  univerfally  prevail.  When  the  Spirit  of  Prayer  be- 
*'  gan  to  be  loft,  then  Forms  cf  Prayer  virere  invented,  and 
'•  I  believe,  the  fame  Obfervation  will  hold  good  as  to  Preach- 
*'  ing.  As  for  the  Univerfiiies,  I  believe  It  may  be  faid^ 
'*  their  Light  is  become  Darknefs,  Darkncfs  that  may  be 
*'  felt,  and  is  complained  of  by  the  moft  godly  Minifters. 
^^  I  pray  God  thofe  Fountains  may  be  purijied,  and  fend  forth 
**  pure  Streams  to  ivater  the  Cities  of  our  God. — The  Churcll 
*'  of  England  \%  at  a  low  Ebb,  and,  as  far  as  I  can  find, 
^'  had  People  kept  their  Primitive  Purity,  it  would  fcarce 
*'  have  got  Footing  in  NeitJ- England.  I  have  many  Evi- 
*'  dences  to  prove  that  moft  of  the  Churciies  have  been  fir  ft 
*■'•  fet  op  by  immoral  Men,  and  fuch  as  would  not  fubmit  to 
*'  the  Difcipline  of  their  Congregations.  But  I'll  fay  no 
*'  more  of  the  poor  Church  of  England.  Moft  of  her  Sons, 
**  I  fear,  hate  to  be  reformed,  and  will  b-it  caft  my  Words 
*'  behind  them.  — As  tor  the  Civil  Government  of  Neivr 
*'  England^  it  feems  to  be  well  regulated  ;  and.  I  think,  a.t 
**  opening  all  their  Courts,  either  the  Judge  or  a  Minifter. 
*'  begins  with  a  Prayer.  Family  Worftiip,  I  believe,  is  ge- 
"  nerally  kept  up.  The  Negroes,  I  think  better  ufed  in 
'*  refpedl  both  to  Soul  and  Body,  than  in  any  other  Province 
*'  I  have  yet  feen  :  In  fhort,  I  like  New  England  exceed- 
*'  irtg  Well ;  and  when  a  Spirit  of  Reformation  revives,  it 
"  certaifily  will  prevail  more  than  in  any  other  Place,  be- 
'*  caufe  they  are  fimple  in  tlieir  "Worftiip,  Icfs  corrupt  in  their 
"  Prin<5iples,  and  confequently  eafier  to  be  brought  over  tp 
•-  the-^J'ofm  of  found  Words,  into  which  fo  many  of  theic 
"  pi(^  :Anceftors  were  delivered."  Se^d  forth.,  O  Lord^ 
thy  J^tJ^t  and  thy  Truth,  and  for  thy  infinite'  Mercys  Sake, 
fnezv'thou.^aji  a  peculiar  Delight,  in.  thefe'jjfij^itabk  ^qrik,  if, 
the  Earth  /   Amen,  Lord  Jefus^  Amen^^fi^^  Af^m^t-     ^  \  '»   ^^ 


Rye^  m  Ne-yih  Tork  Provlf^li 


■:     -  '■•■  i  ••  •:  •.:    t-'  ■  ■  '•  '   i     " 

Bein 2;  kindly  invited  by  a  Minifter  of  theJC,huirch  of  Sfigr. 

land  af.er  Dingier  I  went  to  Rye,  about  elevea  Miles  frdm 

H  Start' 


5 8  Mr .  Wh IT E i" I E L D*i  Journal 

Stanford.  I  read  Prayers  and  preached  to  a  fmall  Congre- 
gation. Was  civilly  entertained  by  the  Minifter,  and  then 
rode  Ten  Miles  further  to  Eafl  Chejier.  Here  I  fpent  an 
agreeable  Evening  vi'ith  my  dear  Companions  in  Travel. 
God  filled  me  out  of  his  own  divine  Fulnefs,  and  made  me 
to  drink  of  his  Pleafures  as  out  of  a  River.  I  think  I  know 
what  our  Lord  means  when  he  promifes,  He  that  believeth 
on  me^  out  of  his  Belly  J}}all  flow  Rivers  of  living  JFaters^ 
Lord,  evermore  give  me  this  Water. 

Kings  Bridge  and  Ne^u^-York. 

Thurfday^  O^iober  30,  Preached  in  the  Morning  to  about 
300  People,  and  obferved  a  fweet  Melting  amongfl  them. 
Dined  and  rode  fix  Miles  to  Kings  Bridge^  where  I  preached 
from  the  Steps  of  a  public  Houfe  to  about  500  ;  but  did  not 
perceive  much  vifible  Effedl.  Hither  fcveral  of  New-Tor k 
Friends  came  to  meet  me.  I  talked  with  them  on  the 
Way  of  the  Things  of  God,  and  found  an  inexpreflible  Sa- 
tisfaction in  my  Soul,  when  I  arrived  at  the  Houfe  of  my 
very  dear  Friend  Mr.  Noble.  After  Supper,  the  Lord  filled 
my  Heart,  and  gave  me  to  wreftle  with  him  for  Neiu-Tork 
Inhabitants,  and  my  own  dear  Friends.  To  add  to  my 
Comfort,  the  Lord  brought  my  dear  Brother  Davenport 
from  Long-IJIatid^  by  vvhofe  Hands  the  blefied  Jcfus  has  of 
late  done  great  Things.  In  a  Letter  to  his  Mother  he  writes 
thus  :  *-  The  Lord  has,  in  infinite  Mercy,  given  me,  in 
*'  my  Parifh,  near  twenty,  in  a  little  more  than  two  Months 
**  Time.  In  almoit  all  thefe  the  Work  of  Converfion  feem'd 
*'  very  clear."  Let  God  have  all  the  Praife.  Even  fo^  Lord 
fefus.  Amen  and  Amen. 

N  E  JV-rO  R  K. 

Friday.,  October  31.  Met  with  a  bitter  Pamphlet  wrote  a- 
gainft  me  by  fome  of  the  Presbyterian  Perfuafion,  and  found 
Freedom  given  me  to  anfwer  it.  I  long  fince  e.xpedted  clofe 
Oppofition  from  that  Quarter.  I  believe  it  will  be  increafing 
daily.  The  Lord  will  make  me  more  than  Conqueror 
thro' his  Love!  Met  alfo  with  two  Volumes  of  Sermons 
publiihed  \n. London  as  dehvered  by  me,  tho'I  never  preached 
on  moft  of  the  Texts.  But  Satan  muft  try  all  Ways  to 
,  bring  the  Work  of  God  into  Contempt.  Blcfled  be  God, 
-,j>yho  enables  me  abundantly  to  rejoice  in  all  Things  that  be- 


at    NEW- TOR  K.  59 

fal  me.  Preached  in  the  Morning  at  Mr.  P — «'s  Meeting- 
Houfe  :  But  never  faw  the  Word  of  God  fall  with  fuch 
Weight  in  iV^to-lVi  before.  Two  or  three  cried  out.  Mr. 
JS^qbk  could  fcarce  refrain  himfelf.  And,  look  where  T 
\yould,  many  fecm'd  deeply  wounded.  At  Night  the  Word 
yfzs  attended  with  great  Power.  One  cried  out ;  and  the 
Lord  enabled  me,  at  the  latter  End  of  my  Sermon,'  to  fpeak 
with  Authority.  Alas !  How  vain  are  the  Thoughts  of 
Men  !  As  I  came  along  Yefterdav,  I  found  my  Heart  fome- 
what  dejedted,  and  told  Mr.  Noble  I  cxpeded  but  little  Mov- 
ings  in  New-Tark  ;  but  Mr.  Noble  bid  me  '*  exp-icl  great 
*'  Things  from  God,"  and  likewife  told  me  of  fevcral  who 
were,  as  he  Jioped,  favingly  wrought  upon  by  my  Miniilrv, 
when  there  laft.  O  -Lord^  let  theje  Things  humble  //ly  Soul  for 
thy  civn  Name's  Sake  ! 

Saturday^  November  I.  Finifhed  my  Anfwer  to  the  Pam- 
phlet. God  cnabkd  me  to  write  It  in  the  Spirit  of  Meek- 
nc/s.  0  Lord!  give  it  thy  Blejjing  !  Preach.ed  twice  as  Ye- 
rterday  to  very  crowded  Auditories,  and  neither  Time  with- 
out Power.  In  the  Evening  Exercifc,  fome  fainted,  and  the 
Lord  feemed  to  fhew  us  ipore  and  more,  that  a  Time  for 
id.vom'mg.New-Tork  was  near  at  Hand.  O  wherefore  did  I 
doubt  .'  Lord  increafe  my  Faith. 
.Sunday,  Novefnber  2.   Preached   this  Morning  with   Free- 

.qom  and  fome  Power,  but  was  much  dejected  before  the  E- 
vening  Serm^m.  For  near  half  an  Hour  before  I  left  Mr. 
N'Mis  Houfc,  I  could  only  lie  before  the  Lord  and  fay,  "  I 
*'  was  a  poor  Sinner,  and  wonder  that  Chrifl  woulJ  be  gra- 

5**  cious  to  fuch  a  Wretch."  As  I  went  to  Meeting,  1  grew 
weaker  and  weaker,  and  when  I  c.-.me  into  the  Pulpit,  I 
could  have  chofe  to  be  filent  rather  than  fpeak.  But,  after 
1  bad  begun,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  gave  me  Freedom,  till. at 
length  it  came  down  like  a  mighty  Rufhing  Wind,  and  car- 
ried all  before  it.  Immediately  the  whole  Congregation  was 
akriiied,  .  Shrieking,  Crying,  Weeping  and  Wailing  were  to 
bcheard  in  every  Corner.  Men's  Heart's  failing  them  for 
Fear,  and  many  falling  into  the  Arms  of  their  Friends.  My 
Soul  was  carried  out  till  I  could  fcarce  fpeak  any  more.  A 
Senfe  of  God's  Goodnefs  overwhelmed  me.  As  I  went  down, 
a  Woman  faid,  *'  Come  and  fee  what  God  has  done  for  me 

^"To-night."  I  looked,  and  her  Daughter,  in  a  great  A- 
gony,  was  crying  out,  *'  Oh  my  Jefus,  my  Jefus  !"     An- 

;  pther,  a  little  Boy,  was  fo  concerned   on  the  Pulpit  Stairs, 

c,^K^t.;^he  could  fcarce  ftand.     One  of  my  Friends  asked  him 

H  2  why 


6^  Mr.  White  FIELDS  Jotirnal 

why  he  cried,  "■  Who  can  help  it  ?  faid  he.  Mv.  TVhite- 
*'  ficld\  Words  c\it  me  to  the  Heart."  After  I  came  home, 
I  threw  myftlf  upon  the  Bt-d,  and  in  an  awful  Silence,  ad- 
mired the  infinite  Freenefs,  Soverrij:nrv  and  Condefcenfion 
of  the  Love  ot  God.  I  wa^;  iinvvillitijz  to  move,  but  was  cal- 
led down  to  the  Marriap;e  of  Mr.  P — r,  whom  I  met  at 
Rhode- Ijland,  who  being  cfpourird  to  the  young  Woman,  who 
was  fo  ftruck  at  the  fame  Place,  by  my  Advice,  mar- 
ried her  this  Night,  and  borh  aie  going  as  my  Affiftants  to 
Georgia.  Never  did  I  ftc  a  more  f:d'-mn  Wedding.  Jefus 
Chnit  was  called,  and  lie  was  prefcnt  in  a  remarkable  Man- 
^iier.  After  Mr.  P — n  had  married  them,  I  prayed.  But 
riiy  Soul,  hov/  was  it  enabled  to  wrcdle  with  and  lay  hold  on 
God!  1'w.is  in  a  very  great  Agony,  and  the  Holy  Ghoft 
was  remarkably  prefcnt,  that  moft,  I  believe,  could  fav, 
'Surely  God  is  in  this  Place  !  After  this.  Divine  ManifeHa- 
tions  flowed  in.  fo  faft,  that  my  frail  Tabernacle  v/as  fcarce 
able  to  fuliaiii  them.  My  dear  Friends  fat  round  me  on 
the  Bed-fides.  I  prayed  for  each  of  them  alternately  with 
ilrong  Cries,  and  pierced  by  the  Eye  of  Faith,  even  within 
the  Veil.  I  continued  in  this  Condition  for  about  half  an 
Plour,  aftonifhed  at  my  own  Vilcnefs,  and  the  Excellency 
of  Chriil,  then  rofe  full  of  Peace,  and  Love  and  Joy.  Oh! 
how  am  I  obliged  to  my  Enemies.''  God  has  remarkably 
revealed  himfclF  to  my  S  juI,  ever  fince  I  have  fecn  the  Pam- 
phlet publiflicd  by  the  Presbyterians  again ll  mc.  O  how 
faithful  is  he  that  hath  promifed,  //  Jhall  bruife  thy  Heel^  and 
ihou  Jhali  bruife  his  Head !  Lord  enable  mr  to  lay  hold  on 
this.,   during  the  Time  of  my  fcjournirig  here  on  Earth. 

Monday.,  N.v.  3.  Preached  both  Morning  and  Afternoon, 
and  perceived  the  Congregations  f^dl  increafe.  There  was  a 
great  and  gracious  Melting  among'i:  the  People  both  Times, 
but  no  crying  out.  Near  lie  I.  Currency  were  collected  for 
the  Orphans;  and  in  the  Evening  m.nny  came  and  took  an 
aflv(fli'  .Mate  Leave.  About  (even  we  took  Boat  ;  reached 
Staten  Ijlmd  d}youi  ten,  greatly  refreflicd  in  my  inner  Man. 
A  dear  Chrifiian  Friend  received  us  gladly.  We  folaced 
6urlel\es  by  hnizing  and  praying.  And  about  Midnight  re- 
tired t;)  fleep,  fliii  longing  for  tiiat  Time  when  I  ihould  fltep 
no  nit^re.  Lord  keep  me  from  a'ftnj'ul  and  too  eager  Dejire 
after  Death.  J  define  not  to  be  impatient.  J  deftre  quietly  to 
wait  till  my  blelfcd  Change  come.     Amen  and  Amen. 

Stcten 


at   N  EWARKi      '  61 

...  Staten  IJland  im(\  Nezvark,,.        ..    •• 

-iic  '/J--  '  ..      .;.  I    •, ..p.,  ■■ 

tuy^n/^fti^y,  November  A.    Preached  from  a  Waggon  on  5"/^- 
tm  Ijlc/nd,  to  about  3  or  400  People.   The  Lord  came  amongft 
them.      One  dear  young  Man,  in  particular,  as  tho'  his  very 
'~  Heart-ftrings  would  break,  came  to  me  after  Sermon,  with 
ftrong  Cryings   and    Tears,  befeeching   me,  *'  to  pray  that 
'*   he  might    be   converted."     Many    others  wept  alfo,  and 
feveral  of  God's   Children  felt  the  Prefence  of  the  dear  Lord 
Jefus  in    their    Hearts.     Many    of  them    rejoiced  to  fee  me 
again,     Oiie  grey-headed  Man  came  and  told  me  how  God 
had  brought  him   from  Darknefs  to  Light,  when  I  was  here 
laft.      My    Soul    was    alfo   much  refreshed  with  the  Sight  of 
dear  Mr.  Gilbert  Tetinent  and   Mr.  Crofs.      The    former  has 
lately  loft  his  Wife,  and  though   dear  unto  him,  yet  he  was 
enabled  with    great  Calmnefs  to  preach  her  Funeral  Sermon, 
whilft  the  Corps    were  lying  before  him.     This  put  me  in 
mind  of  MeiarMhsn^   who,  at  the  News  of  his  Wife's  Deatb, 
faid,  "  By  Kate,  I'JI  come  after  thee  ere  it  be  long."    Since 
h.s  Wife's  Deceafe,  Mr.  Tennent  has  been  in  the  IVeJi  Jer- 
feys    and    Mayyiatid,    and    told    me  how  God  remarkably 
worked  by  his  Miniftry  in  many  Places.     Mr.  Crofs  alfo  has 
fcen  great   and   wonderful   Things   in  .his  Congregations,  fo 
great  that  when  I  came  to  defire  a    particular   Account,  he 
,  faid,   *'  It  diredlly  anfwered  the  Account   given  by  Mr.  Ed- 
V,>  **  wardsy  of  the  Work  of  God  in  Northampton.''''     If  hat  .is 
the  Lord  Jefus  about  to  do  !  If  the  Beginning  is  fo  great ^  what 
will  the    End  of  ihefe    Things  be  !     Rode  af:er    Sermon  fq 
Newark^  about  ten   Allies  from  Si  a  ten  Ifland.     Preached  to 
a  confiderable  Congregation,  but   it  being  dark  before  I  co|i- 
eluded,  I  could  not  fee  what  ImprefHons  the  Difcourfe  made. 
^oJ  fear  but   little.     Hov/ever,  at  Night    the    Lord  manifefled 
-Hiforth  his   Glory.     For  coming   down    to    Family   Prayer, 
Jj3  ^vhere    I  lodged,     and     perceiving  -many     young    Men  a- 
-TOund  me,  my  Soul    was,    as    it  were,  melted    down  with 
Concern  for  them.     After    fmging,  I   gave  a   Word  of  Ex- 
hortation.    With  what  Power   none  can    fully  exprefs  but 
^  thofe  that  faw  it.     O   how  did    the  Word    f.ill  like  a  Hatn- 
,^-<>mer  and    like  a  Fire!    What   a  Weeping  was  there  !     One 
poor  Creature  in  particular  was  ready  to  fmk  into  the  Earth. 
His  Countenance  was  altered,  till  he  looked,  as  it  were,  fick 
to  Death.     At    length    he  faid,  "  What  fhall    I   do  to  be 
^•V.rf *  faved  ?"    Others  were  diflblved  into  Tears   around  him  ; 
2  and 


6-2  >  Mr.  Wh  I  t  e  f  I  e  l  d  V  jQunmi 

and  one  of  my  Fellow-travellers  was  ftruck  down,  and  To 
overpowered,  that  his  Body  became  exceeding  weak.  He 
could  fcarce  move  all  the  Night  after.  God,  I  believe,  was 
now  working  powerfully  on  his  Soul.  As  fur  my  own  part, 
I  was  almoR  fpent.  I  vomited,  threw  myftlf  upon  the  Bed, 
humbled  myfelf  before  God,  and  fpent  the  reutaining  Even- 
ing in  hearing  dear  iVIr.  Tennent  give  an  Account  of  his  late 
Excuriion.  Oh  he  is  a  choice  l)umble  Minifterof  the  Go- 
fpcl !  May  I  follow  him  as  he  does  Chriji.     Amen  and  Amen. 

BASKINRIDGE, 

TVednefday^  November  5.  Set  out  about  eight  in  the  Morn- 
ing.    Got  to  Basklnridge,  the  Place  where  Mr.  Cro/s  exer- 
cifes  his  ftated  Miniftry,  about  one  o'Clock.     At  the  Houfe 
where  I  waited  in  the  Way,  a   Woman  fpoke  to  me,  under 
ftrong  Convidlions,  and  told  me,  *'  fhe  was  deeply  wounded 
*■'  by  my  laft  Night's   Difcourfe."     When    I  came  to  Baf-. 
ihthridge,  I    found   Mr.  Davenport,  according   to   Appoint- 
ment, had  been  preaching  to  the  Congregation.    It  confiilcd 
of  about  3000  People,      As  I  went  along,  I  told  a  Friend, 
"   My  Soul  wept  for  them,  and   1  was  perfuaded  within  my- 
**  felf,  that  the  Lord  would  in  that  Day  make  his  Power  to 
**  be  known  amongft  them."     In    Prayer,  I  perceived  my 
Soul  drawn  out,  and  a  Stirring  of  Affed;ion  among  the  Peo- 
ple.    I  had  not  difcourfed  long,  but  the  Holy  Gholi  difplay- 
ed  his  Power,      In   every    Part   of  the    Congregation,  feme 
Body  or  other  began  to  cry  out,  and  almoft   all  melted   into 
■^>ars.     This  abated    for   a   few  Moments,  till  a  little  Boy 
about  feven  or  eight  Years  of  Age  cried  cut  exceeding  piter- 
oufly  indeed,  and  wept  as  tho'  his  little  Heart  would  break. 
Mr,  Crofs  having  CompafTion  on  him,  took  him  up  into  the 
Waggon,  which  fo  affedlcd   me  that  I  broke  from  my  Dif- 
courle,  and  told    the  People,   "  the  little  Boy  (hould  preach 
**  to  them,  and  that  God,  fjnce    old    Profeiibrs    would   not 
*'  cry  after  Chrift,  had  difplayed  his  Sovereignty,  and  put  of 
*'  an  Infant's  Mouth  was  perfeding   Praife."     God   fo  blef.- 
fed  this,   that  an  univerfal  Concern    fell    on  the  Congregation 
again.      Frefh  Perfons  dropped  down  here  and  there,  and  the 
Cry  encreafed  more  and  more.     At  length  I  concluded,  and 
as  I  was   going  away,   i  ask'd  tl^  little  Boy  '*  what  he  cried 
*♦  for?"  He  anfwered,  '^  his  Sins."     I  then  asked,  «*  What 
**  he  wanted  .?"      He  lanfwered,  "  Chrift."     As  I  paiTed  a- 
long,  frelh  Inftanccs  of  G(ixi's  Power,  prtfentedthcniijeivcs  to 
i-jT!-:.;.'  my 


at  NEV/'BRUNSWICK,        63 

my  View.     Many  mourning  after  Jefus   that  would  not  be 
comforted.     After  Sermon,  Mr.   Crofs  gave  Notice  of  an  E- 
vening  Le6ture  in  his  Barn,    about  two   Miles  oft'.     Thither 
we  went,  and  a  great  Multitude  followed.     Mr.  Gilbert  Ten- 
mnt  preached  firft,  and  that  excellently  well  upon  the  N^cef- 
fity  and   Benefit    of   fpiritual   Defertions.     I    then  began  to 
pray,  and    felt    the  Spirit  of  God  working  in  me  mightily. 
A  great  Commotion  was   foon  obferved  among   the  Hearers. 
I  then  gave    a  Word  of  Exhortation.     The  Lord's  Prefence 
attended  it  in   a  furprizing  manner.     One  in  about  fix  Mi- 
nutes cried  out,   *'  He  is  come,  he  is  come,'^  and  could  fcarce 
fuftain   the   Difcovery  that  Jefus  Chrill:  made  of  himfelf  to 
his  Soul.     Others  were  foearneft  for  a  Difcovery  of  the  Lord 
to  their  Souls,  that   their  eager  Crying  obliged  me    to  flop, 
and  I  prayed    over  them  as  I  faw  their  Agonies  and  Diftrels 
increafe.      At   length  we  fung  a   Hymn,  and  then  retired  to 
the  Houfe  where  the  Man  that  received  Chrift  continued  till 
near  Midnight,  talking  of  and  praiiing,  "  his  fwcet  Chrijiy 
*'  his  free-hearted   Chriji"   &c.     A  gracious  Woman,  who 
had    been    wreflling  with  God   for    a   Difplay  of  his  Power, 
was  fo  overcome  with  a  Senfe  of  his  Goodnefs,  that  £be  al- 
moft  fwoon'd  away.     And  at   length,  my  own  Soul  was  io 
full    that    I    retired,  and  was  in    a  llrong  Agony  for   forae 
Time,  and  wept  before  the  Lord,  under  a  deep  Senfe  of  my 
own  Vilenefs,  and  the  Sovereignty  and  Greatnefs  of  God's 
everlafting  Love,     Molt  of  the  People  fpent  the  Remainder 
of  the  Night  in   Prayer  and  Praifes.     Two  or    three  young 
Minifters    fpoke   alternately,  and    others  prayed  as  the  Lord 
gave  them  Utterance.     Oh!   it  was  a  Night  much  to  be  rc- 
member'd  !   May  the  Lord  make  us  mindful  of  it  even  to  the 
Day  of  our  Death.     Amen  and  Amen  !  uo 

Bajkinridge  and  New-Brunfwick,         "  • 

Thurfday^  November  6.  After  Breakfaft  this  Morning,  at 
the  Deiire  of  Mr.  Crofs^  I  went  and  gave  a  Word  of  Exhor- 
tation to,  and  fung  and  prayed  with  a  few  People  in  the 
Barn.  There  was  a  fweet  Melting  amongfl  them  again, 
and  the  Lord  was  peculiarly  prefent  with  us.  Before  I 
mounted  my  Horfe,  many  came  to  me  under  great  Soul- Con- 
cern. A  Lad  about  thirteen  Years  old  tuld  me,  "  He  never 
*'  felt  Sin  before  Yeflerday."  A  poor  Negroe- Woman  faid, 
**  (he  was  filled  with  a  Love  of  Chrift,"  and  being  too  fond 
of  the  Inftrument,  would   fain    have    gone  with  me.     Her 

Mafter 


64  ^  Mr.  Wh  I  t  e  f  1  e  l  D'i  journal 

Mafter  a  godly  Man  confented  :  But  I  bid  her  go  Home, 
and  with  a  thankful  Heart  ferve  her  prefent  Mafter.  When 
I  was  upon  my  Horfe  feveral  Women  came  to  fhake  me  by 
the  Hand.  I  asked  one  "^  v/hether  fhe  knew  Chrift?"  She 
faid  **  yes."  **  How  long  ?  Three  Years,  faid  flie,  the 
"  third  Sunday  in  next  March."  I  asked  another  the  fame 
QLieftion.  She  an4"wered  *'  Yes  ;  but  I  aiYi  waiting  for  a 
*'  freHi  Breathing  from  the  blefTed  Spirit."  I,  with  Plea- 
fure,  took  my  leave  of  them,  and  rode  agreeably  in  Com- 
pany with  many  Children  of  God  to  New-Brunfivick,  2-5 
Miles  from  Baskinridge.  Here  Letters  awaited  me  from  Sa- 
"y^/fw^^,  acquainting  me  that  there  had  been  a  great  Morta- 
lity amongft  the  People  of  that  Place.  That  my  Family 
lived  in  Love,  the  Orphans  continued  very  healthy,  and  thjt 
a  Minifter  was  coming  over  tofupply  my  Place  at  Siivannah. 
This  laft  much  rejoiced  me,  being  refolved  to  give  up  Sa- 
vannah Living  as  foon  as  I  arrived  at  Georgia.  J Parijh  and 
the-  Orphan- Houfe  together  are  too  much  for  me  :  Bcfides  God 
feems  to  Jheiv  me  it  is  my  Duty  to  evangelize,  and  not  to  fix  in 
any  particular  Place.  In  the  Evenmg  I  preached  in  Mr.  Gil- 
bert Tennent's  Meeting- Houfe,  and  was  led  in  my  Difcourfe 
to  ^.comfort  the  Hearts  of  God's  dear  People.  A  little  after 
Mr,  jB r  (5  young  Minifter,  who,  I  truft,  will  here- 
after come  fairly  out  for  God)  preached  for  about  an  Hour, 
and  then,  at  the  Defire  of  dear  Mr.  Gilbert  Temient^  I  con- 
cluded with  a  Word  of  Exhortation.  The  Lord  was  pieafed 
to  communicate  himfelf  to  me  freelv-  Aly  Soul  was  filled 
with  his  blefied  Prefence.  The  Word  fell  with  Weight : 
And. after  Sermon  in  private  Prayer  with  my  dear-  Friends, 
oh -how  did  my  loving  Saviour  caufe  my  Cup  to  overflow  ! 
He  permitted  me  to  talk  with  him  as  a  Man  talketh  with 
his  -Friend.  This  I  take  to  be  that  7r«;5>;cr,a  or  Freedom 
of  Speech  which  St.  Paul  fpeaks  of,  and  thro'  the  Lord  Je- 
fus^ Believers  have  Accefs  to  the  Father,  Oh  the  Happincfs  of 
thoje  who  ar»  really  bornMgain  of-God !  -  ■ 

Neiv-BninfwTci'znd  Trentmi. 

firiday,  November  7.  Had -Ibme  Thoughts- of  going  to 
Freeiold  znd  Shrewsiury,  but.  was  prevented  by  the  Coming 
oi  "Mr.  WilliarnTenrfent,  whom  I  wanted  to  confult  about 
his  Btxjther  Gilbert's  going  to  Bofion,  in  order  ro'  help  in 
car^ying  on  the  Work  of  God  in  Ncw^England.  After  ' 
Pray^/  and  ■forte*  Arguments- />ro  and- ft?w,  wcthought  ir  the'^'* 

i*  J  •  Will 


at  rRBNrON,  ^c.  65 

Will  of  God  that  Mr.  Gilbert  Tennent  Ihould  go  to  Bojion. 
He  (diffident  of  himfelf)  was  at  firll  unwilling,  urging  his 
Inability  for  fo  great  a  Work,  but  afterwards  being  convinc- 
ed  it   was   the  Divine  Will,  he  faid,  "  The   Will  of  the 

*'  Lord  be  done."     With  him  alfo  Mr.  R j  was  to  go, 

a  young  Minifter,  one  of  ihe  Tutors  of  Cambridge  Colltge, 
whom  I  brought  with  a  View  that  he  {hould  return  with  Mr. 
Tennent.  God  has  been  pleafed  to  work  upon  his  \ic:\xi  by 
my  Miniftry.  I  cannot  but  think  he  wdl  be  a  burning  and 
a  fhining  L'ghr.  It  being  the  lall  Time  we  fhould  be  toge- 
ther for  a  long  Seafon,  we  thought  it  bed  to  fpeiid  fome  Ufno 
in  Prayer.  Mr.  Gilbert  Tennent  was  our  Mouth  to  God. — 
He  prayed  in  the  Holy  Ghott.  Many  were  greatly  affected. 
About  II  o'clock  we  parted  in  Tears,  but  with  a  full  Affu- 
rance  that  we  fliould  fee  and  hear  of  great  Things  before  ws 
faw  each  other  again  in  the  Flelh.  I  then  went  on  towards 
Trenton^  in  Company  with  Mr.  Davenport  and  fume  other?. 
The  Lord  was  v/ith  us  on  the  Way.  Some  time  before  we 
reached  the  Inn,  I  could  fay  but  little.  I  retired  as  fjon  as  I 
came  to  Trenton^  lay  filentiy  befure  the  Lord.  He  heard  tha 
Cry  of  my  Heart.  He  liJled  it  with  h;s  abundant  Prefence, 
and  gave  me  great  Freedom  to  write  fometh  ng,  which,  I 
truft,  will  tend  to  promote  his  Gljry.  Even  fa ^  Lord  jt- 
fus  !  Amen. 

Trenton  and  Philadelphiai 

Saturday,  November  8^  Preached  this  Morning  in  the 
Meeting-Houfe,  not  to  a  very  large  or  much  affe<^ed  Audi- 
tory.— Was  rellrained  in  public  Preaching,  bui  felt  an  efpe- 
cial  Prefence  of  God  in  my  private  BuiincG.  Set  out  imme- 
diately after  Dinner,  and  was  mercifully  and  providentially 
preferved  in  going  over  two  Creeks,  which  lay  in  the  Way, 
and  were  mucii  fwelled  by  the  Rain.  In  one  of  them  two  of 
my  Feliow-Travellers,  in  all  probability,  mufh  have  perifhed, 
had  not  a  Woman  cried  out,  and  bid  us  ftop.  A  Man  touch'd, 
as  I  afterwards  found,  by  mvMiniftry,  hearing  my  Voice, 
came  and  fwam  our  Horfes  over  the  other  Creek,  and  con- 
ducted us  fafe  over  a  very  narrow  Bridge.  About  eight  we 
jeached  PhiLuiilphia^  cho*  the  Night  was  very  dark  indeed. 
Some  Friends  were  jult  com'-  in,  who  had  been  out  anothef 
Way  to  meet  me.  Several  with  great  ]oy  came  to  falute  me. 
We  fang,  v.'e  prayed.  The  Lord  inclined  his  Ear.  My 
Soul  waii.iiJkd.  is  it  wsre,  with  Marty) vv  and. i^atoefg.  ,,  I  re- , 
I    '  '  tixei 


66         Mr.  WHiTFiELD*i  Journal 

tired  to  Reft,  praying  the  Lord,  that  my  Coming  t.o  Phila- 
delphia might  be  in  the  Fulnefs  of  the  Bleffing  of  the  Gofpel 
of  Peace,     Amen,  fo  be  it ! 

PHILADELPHIA. 

Sunday,  November  9.  Had  feveral  gracious  Souls  come  to 
Ice  me. — We  prayed  together. — The  Lord  much  enlarged 
my  Heart.  Preached  about  1 1  in  the  Morning  to  feveral 
Thoufands  in  a  Houfe  built  for  that  purpofe  fince  my  laft 
Departure  from  Philadelphia.  It  is  100  Feet  long,  and 
.70-  Feet  brqad.  A  large  Gallery  is  to  be  erected  all  around 
.it. — Many  Footfteps  of  Providence  have  been  vifible  in  be- 
ginning and  carrying  it  on.  Particulars  I  fliall  (God  willing) 
relate  hereafter.  Let  it  fuffice  at  prefent,  that  both  in  the 
.Morning  and  Evening,  God's  Glory  filled  the  Houfe  :  For 
there  vi^as  great  Power  in  the  Congregation.  It  was  never 
.preached  in  before.  The  Roof  is  not  yet  up,  but  the  People 
.raifed  a  convenient  Pulpit,  and  boarded  the  Bottom.  The 
.Joy  of  moft  of  the  Hearers,  when  they  faw  me,  was  inex- 
prefTible  :  Some  ftill  mocked.  Between  Services  I  received  a 
IPacket  of  Letters  from  England,  dated  in  May-ch  laft. 

•  Jiday  the  ,Lord  heal,  and  bring  Good  out  of  the  Divifions, 
%vhich,  at  prefent,  fecm  to  be  among  the  Brethren  there  ! — 
God  giving  me  Freedom,  and  many  Friends  being  in  the 
Room,  I  kneeled  down  and  prayed  with  and  exhorted  them 
all.  But,  Oh !  how  did  they  melt  under  both  !  My  Soul 
was  much   rejoiced  to    look 'round    on  them,  becaufe  there 

•  were  fome  who  were  now  fairly  brought  through  the  Pangs 

•  of  the  New-Birth,  who  had  been  moft  marvellous  Offenders 
.  againft  t!)e   Great  God.     I   fhall  mention  two  only.      The 

•,firft  is  one  "  Mr.  Brockden,  Recorder  of  Deeds,  i£c.  a 
/*'  Man  eminent  in  his  Profeflion,  but  for  many  Years  a 
'  "  notorious  Deift.  In  his  younger  Days,  he  f^ld  me,  he 
.*'  had  fome  religious  Imprellions,  but  coming  into  Bufinefs, 

*'  the  Cares  of  the  World  fo  choak'd  the  good  Seed,  th^t  he 
.*'  not  only  forgat  his  God  in  fome  Degree,  but  at  length  be- 

*'  gan  to  doubt  of,  and  to  difpute  his  very  Being.  In  this 
."  State  he  continued  many  Years,  and  has  been  very  zea- 
,"  lous  to  propagate  his  Delftical,  I  could  almoft  fay  Atheif- 
;"  tical  Principles  among  moral  Men  ;  but  he  told  me  he 
,,-*,'  never  endeavoured  to  make  Profclvtcs  of  vicious,  de- 
\1'  bauchcd  People.    When  \  came  to  Philadelphia  this  Time 

*'  I'welvemonth,  he  told  me,  huhad  not  fo  much  as  a  Cu- 
.  .  **  riofitv 


at    TRENTON,  &c.  67. 

*f,riofity  to  hear  vine.  But  a  Brother  Delft,  his  choiceft 
*i  Friend,  preflipg  him  to  come  and  hear  me,  to  fatisfy  his 
**  Curiofity,  he  at  length  complyed  with  his  Requeft.  It 
**  was  Night.  ^.  I  preached  at  the  Court- Houfe  Stairs,  upon 
*'  the  Conference  which  our  Lord  had  with  Nicode7nus. — 
*'  I  had  not  fpoke  much  before  the  God  ftruck  his  Heart.  For, 
"  faid  he,  I  faw  your  Dodtrine  tended  to  make  People  good." 

ff,.  His  Family  knew  nothing  that  he  had  been  to  hear  me, 
1  After  he  came  Home,  his  Wife,  who  had  been  at  Sermon, 
},  came  in  alfo,  and  wifhed  heartily  that  he  had  heard  me. 
**  He  faid  nothing.  After  this,  another  of  his  Family  came 
*'  in  repeating  the  fame  Wifh  ;  and,  if  I  miftake  not,  after 
"  that  another,  till  at  laft  being  unable  to  refrain  any  longer, 
"  with  Tears  in  bis  Eyes,  Why,  fays  he,  I  have  been  hear- 
*'  ing  him  ;  and  then  exprefled  his  Approbation.  Ever  fmce 
"  he  has  followed  on  to  know  the  Lord,  and  I  veriiy  be- 
*'  lieve  Jefus  Chrift  has  made  himfelf  manifeft  to  his  Soul. 
*'  Tho'  upwards  of  threefcore  Years  old,  he  is  now,  I  be- 
"  lieve,  born  again  of  God.  He  is  a  little  Child,  and  often 
**  (as  he  told  me)  receives  fuch  Communications  from  God, 
*'  when  he  retires  into  the  Woods,  that  he  thinks  he  could 
*'  die  a  Martyr  for  the  Truth."     The  next  is  one  "  Cap- 

*'  tain  H /,  formerly    as  great    a  Reprobate   as  ever  I 

"  heard  of:  Almoft  a  Scandal  and  Reproach  to  human  Na- 
"  ture.  He  ufed  to  fwear  to  eafe  his  Stomach,  and  was  fo 
*'  fond  of  new  Oaths  that  he  ufed  to  go  on  Board  the  Traqf- 
*'  port  Siiips,  and  offer  a  Guinea  for  a  new  Oath,  that  he 
*'  might  have  the  Honour  of  coining  it.  It  would  be  end- 
*'  lefs  to  give  Inftances  of  his  vile  Profanenefs.  To  the  Ho- 
*'  nour  of  God's  Grace  let  it  be  faid,  he  is  now,  I  believe,  a 
*'  Chriftian.  Not  only  reformed,  but  renewed.  The  ef- 
*'  fedual  Stroke,  he  told  me,  was  given,  when  I  jft-eached 
*'  laft  Spring  at  P^;;«)|/)«fyf,  tho' under  good  Impreffions  be- 
*'  fore.  Ever  fince  he  has  been  zealous  for  the  Truth, 
■"  ftood  like  a  Lamb  when  he  was  beaten,  and  in  Danger  of 
*'  being  murdered  fome  Time  ago,  by  many  of  my  Op- 
'•^  pofers,  and,  in  fliort,  flievvs  forth  his  Faith  by  his  Works." 
I  might  fpeak  alfo  of  fome  Qi^iakers,  who  are  fairly  brought 
into  an  Experimental    Acquamtance  with  Chrift,  who  are 

chofcn    with    myfelf,     the  aforefaid  B n  and  H 4 

and  fome  others,  joint  Truftees  for  the  Houfe  lately  e- 
recled. — But  I  mention  thefe  in  Particular,  becaufe  I  think 
they  are  remarkable  Proofs  of  that  too  much  exploded  Doc- 
trine, I  mean,  God's  eternal  Election  and  iverlajling  Love. 

I  2  <'  Whatv 


^8^,        Mr,  Wh I  XT TBt  ^s  -^mrn^l 

*5.  Whatever  Men's  carnal  Reafoning  may  fuggeft,  yet  if  the 
*^  Children  of;God'  fairly  examine  their  ovyn  Experiences, 
*^,  jf  they  do  God  Juftice,  they  muft  acknowledge  that 
Y  they  did  not  chufe  God,  but  God  chofe  them.  And  if 
*'  he  chofe  th^m  at  all,  it  raufl  be  frona  Eternity,  and  that 
**  too  withour  any  Regard  to  any  Thing  forefeen  in  them. 
*'  tJnlefs  they  acknowledge  this,  iMan's  Salvation  muft  be 
**  in  Part  owing  to  the  Free-Will  of  Man,  and  if  fo,  unlefs 
**  ^M^n  defcend  from  other  Parents  than  I  did,  Chrift  Jefus 
**  mi'ht  have  died,  and  never  have  feen  the  Travel  of  his 
•^  Soul  in  the  Salvation  of  one  of  his  Creatures.  But  I 
*^'wuuld  be  tender  in  this  Point,  and  leave  Perfons  to  be 
?^  t,vjght_  It  of  God.  I  am  of  the  M-.rtyr  Brndford'^  Mind.  " 
Xfet  a  Plan  go  to  the  Grammar  School  of  Faith  and  'Rrpni- 
ance,  before  he  gees  to  the  Univerfity  cf  Election  and  prciejii-' 
ttatlon.  A  bare  Head  Knowledge  of  the  Form  of  fjund 
Words  availeth  nothing.  I  am  qtiite  fick  of  Chnftlefs 
Talkers.  Frojn  Juch  may  I  ever  turn  away  !  Amen  and 
Amen  ! 

Monday^  November  ic.  Preached  Morning  and  Afternoon 
i.0  very  large  Congregations,  .and  obferved  a  wonderful  fweet 
Power  attend  both,  but  efpccially  the  Evening- Sermon  Ma- 
ny afterwards  came  and  told  me  what  God  did  for  their 
Souls  thereby.  All  the  vacant  Timt  before  and  after  preach- 
Jiig,  I  employed  in  anfwenng  my  EngUp^  Letters.  Lcrd^ 
hlefs  what  was  written  to  the  Confclation  and  Edification  of 
7ny  dear  Friends  for  Jefus  Chrifs  Sake.   Amen  aud  Amen.  - 

Saturday,  Ncvanher  15.  Preached  twice  every  Day  this 
Week  in  the  new  Houfr,  cne  Morning  excepted,  when  I 
preached  in  A4r.  C — 's  Mceting-Htiufe  on  Account  of  thfe 
Snow.  A  mofl  fwect  and  wonderful  Power  went  at  that 
Time  through  the  Congregation,  The  Lord  ga\e  me  the 
Text  I  preached  o.n  juft  before  Meeting;  direcT:ed  me  to  a 
Method  as  I  was  going  up  the  Pulpit  Stairs;  and  enabled  me 
to  difcourfe  with  an  uncommon  Clearnef^-,  freedom,  and 
Power.  The  Eftc(fl:s plainly  {hewed  that  it  was  of  God. — 
The  Word  feemed  to  fmite  them  like  fo  many  pointed 
Arrows.  Mapy  afterwards  told  me  what  they  felt,  and 
in  the  Evenmg  I  was  fent  for  to  a  ycung  Woman, 
who  was' carried  Home  from  Meeting,  and  j|ir.d  continued 
almofl  •'fpeechlcfs.  W'hen  I  came,  fhc  looked  like  a  Per- 
fondea'ci  and  laid  out.  I  prayed,  with  hf-r,  and  heard  after- 
a/ar'ds  that  fhc  came  out  inta  a,  fiioie  .c;om>ortah]e  State. — » 
JSteJJed  be  the  Nariii  of  th£\t^4-y-ly-^(^^v\l^^'(}^'i^^\^'j  :'WC 
■  ■     '      "        '    ■'  *    "     ' '  had 


Bad  bne  dry  Meeting.  The  leaft  Moving,  I  t.hinici  was  one 
Afternoon,  when  I  was  unaccountably  carried  out  to  talk  a- 
gainft  Reafoiiing  Unbelievers.  When  I  was  at  Dinner  I  ha4 
not  jfixed  upon  a  Text.  When  I  was  going  to  .preach,  I 
was  {o  ill  thatfbme  of  my  Friends  adviied  me  to  go  home. 
Iithought  it  btft  to  truft  to  God.  I  went  on,'  began  Preach- 
ing, and  found  mv  Heart  fomewhat  ref'refhed,  but  all  on  a 
fudden,  my  Soul  was  fo  carried  out  to  talk  againft  depend- 
ing on  our  natural  Reafon,  that  my  Friends  were  aftoniihed, 
and  fo  was  I  too:  For  Ifelt  the  Holy  Ghoft  come  upon 
"me  at  that  TIrhe,  and  never  fpake  on  that  wife  before.  As 
I  was  going  home,  I  faid  to  a  Friend,  "  Surely  {ome  Rea- 
**  foners  were  in  the  Congregation."  Upon  Enquiry,  I 
found  a  Clufter  of  them  were  prefent,  and  then  I  knevO" 
wherefore  I  was  fo  affifted.  Oh  ivbo'  ivotdd  hut  trujl  in 
God  I  One  of  thefe  Reafoners  a  Kttle  aficr,  meeting  Mr. 
j5*— M,  faid,  " .  What !  Mr.  IVhitefield  could  not  make 
*'  tiie  People  cry  this  Afternoon."  "  A  good  Reafon  for 
**  it,  fays  Mr.  B — »,  he  was  preaching  againft  Deifts, 
*'  and  you  know  they  are  a  hardned  Generation."  Lord 
take  from  them  a  Heart  of  Stone,  and  give  them  a  Heart  of 
Flejh.     Abba,  Father,   all  Things  are  poffible  ivith  thee. 

Another  Afternoon,  there  was  fuch  an  univerfal  Commo- 
tion in  the  Congregation,  as  I  never  faw  in  Philadelphia  be- 
fore. One  or  two  cried  out  in  a  moft  piteous  Manner,  and 
Numbers  wept  fo  forely,  that  I  broke  off  Prayer  after  Ser- 
mon fooner  than  otherwife  I  fliould  have  done.  The  Chll- 
cjren  of  God  were  melted  down,  and  their  Souls  magnified 
the  Lord.  I  preached  on  thc-fe  Word?,  JVhat  fiall  I  do  to  be 
fizved  ?  And  as  1  afterwards  found,  was  very  providential-^ 
iy  d:re«fted  to  that  Subjed.  For  one  Mrs.  /*— r,  as  I  have 
it  in  a  Paper  taken  from  her  own  Mouth,  went  to  Mr»  Cum- 
mins to  know,  **  Why  I  fhould  not  preach  in  the  Church  ?" 
He,  after  feveral  Inveftives  caft  out  againli  me,  faid,  He^ 
could  not  anfwer  his  Oath  to  the  Bi/hop  of  London,  if  he  did 
give  me  Leave,  and  cautioned  her  againft  going  to  hear  me ;. 
adding,  That  if  Jhe  followed  or  adhered  So  what  1  faid,  Jh( 
was  in  a  woful  Condi.ion.'\  Na.v,  faid  he,  You  are  damn-^ 
ed  if  you  do.  Withall,  hq  told  her.  He  was  dlfirejfed  in  his 
Soul  far  her^hecaufe  Jhe  ivas  a  good  Liver,  and  brought  up 
undir   pious    Parents.      Mrs.  B — r  asked,    *■'    If  ihe,    by; 

-*  God's  Aflilfence,  could  live  up  to  the  Doftri.ie  arid  Ex-. 
^'- ample  of  our  Saviour  and  the  Apoftles,  a§Jaid  dowi^  iq 
^'--tne  N^w  Teftament,    fhe  fliould  not  db'weil  ?"   He  an" 

bfif^      .  fwered. 


yo.  Mr.  W  H  I  T  E  F I  E  L  d'^  journal 

fwered,  "  "Yes."  Then,  Sir,  replied  (he,  *'  Imuft  believe 
*'  in  Mr.  Whitefield's  Do6trine."  There  now^  fays  he,  you 
are  running  cut  again  ;  /  tell  you,  you  are  mad.  Go  home 
and  hear  him  no  more,  and  you  U  do  well  encugh.  No,  Sir, 
fays  Mis.  P — r,  *'  I  cannot  Itay  away.  And  feeing  fo  ma- 
*^  ny  People  admire  Mr.  JVhitefield'^  Doftrine,  and  you  fo 
*'  bitter  againft  him.  What  mnft  I  do  to  be  faved  ?  For 
*'  you  are  enough  to  diftradt  me  between  you."  You  are 
gcod  enough,  replied  Mr.  Cummins,  and  may  dana  or  play 
at  Cards,  and  be  in  a  far  better  (Fay  than  Whitefield  or  his 
Fo.loivcrs.  For  my  Part,  I  will  wajh  my  Hands  of  your 
Blood,  and  will  leave  you.  No,  faid  Mrs.  P — r,  **  You 
*'  love  Money  too  well.  Sir,  to  leave  this  Place."  After  a 
great  deal  more  Converfation,  Mrs,  P — r  left  him  in  great 
Diftrcfs  of  Mind,  and  often  repeating  to  herfelfj  Lord,  what 
jhall  I  do  to  be  faved  ?  Contrary  to  iMr.  Cu7)imins\  Advice, 
file  went  in  the  Afternoon,  fays  the  Paper  before  me,  to 
hear  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  he  providentially  preached  on  the 
trembling  Jaylor's  Words,  What  fuall  I  do  to  be  faved  P 
Which  gave  the  Gentlewoman  fo  much  Satisfaction  and  Com- 
fort, that  {he  is  thankful  to  God  for  having  an  Opportunity 
of  hearing  that  Text  explained,  is  much  Itrengthened,  per* 
fedlly  eafy,  and  will  by  God's  Grace  follow  his  Command- 
ments. Lord,  for  thy  Mcrcfs  Sah,  work  in  her  both  to 
will  and  to  do,  after  thy  good  Pleafure.  Amen  and  Amen. 
It  would  be  almoft  cndlefs  to  recount  all  the  particular  In- 
stances of  God's  Grace,  which  I  have  feen  this  Week  part. 
Many  that  before  were  only  convidled,  now  plainly  proved, 
that  they  were  converted,  and  had  a  clear  Evidence  of  it  with- 
in thcmfelvcs.  My  chief  Bufmefs  was  now  to  build  up  and 
to  exhort  them  to  continue  in  the  Grace  of  God.  Notwith- 
ilanding  many  were  convi^ed  almoft  every  Day,  and  came 
unto  me  under  the  greateft  Diftrefs  and  Anguifh  of  Soul. 
Several  Societies  are  now  in  the  Town,  not  only  of  Men  anti 
Womeii,  but  of  little  Boys  and  little  Girls,  Being  fo  en- 
gaged, I  could  not  vilit  them  as  I  would,  but  I  hope  the  Lord 
-will  raiie  me  up  forac  Feilow-Labourers,and  that  Elders  will' 
be  ordained  in  every  Place,  then  we  (hall  fee  a  glorious  Church 
fettled  and  cflablilhed  ja  Philadelphia .  Hajlen  that  Time,  ' 
O  Lard.^  my  Strength  and  my  Redeemer.  I  cannot  leave  off 
giving:>,an  Account  of  tirw  Week's  Work,  Vv'ithout  mention- 
ing another  Inftance  or  two  of  God's  (jrace.  One  Wo- 
man came  to  jne,  I  think  fairly  converted  to  our  dear  Lord 
Jc'fus.     She  told  rae, ,  whai  X  \v:is  at  Pinladelphia  lalt,  *'  She 

came 


at  PEN  STLVANIA.  ^j 

'  came  defining  that  I  would  baptize  her  Child.  I  being 
'*  otberwife  engaged,  refufed.  Upon  this  the  Devil  aflault- 
**  her,  being  under  ftrong  Convi6tions,  in  a  moft  violent 
*'  Manner,  and  endeavoured  to  perfuade  her,  that  all  I  had 
*'  told  her  were  Lies.  She  was  caft  into  Darknefs,  but  rea- 
*'  foned  thus.  It  is  impoffible  that  it  ihould  be  Lies,  or  that 
**  I  fliould  be  a  falfe  Prophet,  fince  the  Word  came  with 
*'  fuch  Light,  Evidence  and  unfpeakable  Power  upon  her 
"  Soul,  when  fhe  heard  me.  She  went  home,  retired  to 
*'  Bed,  and  there  the  Devil  would  fain  have  perfuaded  her 
*^  to  cut  the  Child's  Throat  with  a  Pair  of  Sciflars.  She 
*'  being  brought  into  the  utmoft  Extremity,  cried  and  look- 
"  ed  up  to  Chrift.  He  delivered  her  out  of  her  Diftrefs. 
*'  Satan  immediately  left  her,  and  God  flowed  in  upon  her 
"  Soul.  She  now  knows  that  her  Redeemer  liveth.  Praife 
the  Lord^  O  7ny  Soul!  Another  young  Woman,  who  I 
"  believe  was  m.ade  a  wife  Virgin  laft  Spring,  and  received 
*«  Jefus  Chrift  into  her  Heart,,  acquainted  me,  *'  That  fhe 
*'  continued  in  great  Joy  for  near  three  Days,  and  went  as 
**  far  as  Nno-CaJlU  to  hear  me,  when  I  tooJc  my  Leave  laft. 
**  As  Ihe  was  returning,  feme  body  told  her,  I  believed Elec- 
«'  tion.  Alas  !  then,  faid  {he,  (tho'  fhe  was  converted)  what 
*'  will  become  of  me  ?  She  fell  into  Darknefs,  retired  into 
*'  the  Woods,  and  by  Degrees,  file  told  me,  folid  Comfort 
"  returned  to  her  Soul."  '  Jnd  tiow^  faid  i,  do  you  believe 
Elc6iion  ?  Tes^  fays  (he,  with  the  ut?7iojl  Confidence.  It 
cannot  but  be  fo.  Oh  that  all  ivho  are  7icw  prejudiced  a- 
gainjl  that  DoSfrine  were  thus  taught  of  God  I  They  would 
not  ignorantly  call  the  Doftrine  of  Eledion  the  DocStrine  of 
Devils,  or  cry  out  vehemently  ^gainft  the  Horrible  De- 
cree. But,  as  an  excellent  Chnltian  obferves,  The  Doctrine 
of  EleEiion  is  fuch  a  glorious  Myflery\  that  it  daz,%les  the  weak 
Eyts  even  of  fame  of  God's  dear  Children.  But  I  have  referred 
the  moft  fweet  Proof  of  God's  Grace  and  Power  to  the  laft. 
Ab.yjt  the  Middle  of  the  Week  I  was  called  .  to  villt  One 
Mis  D.  then  lying  on  a  iick  Bed,  but  after  prodigious. A- 
goni-s,  brought  home  to  God  v; hen  I  vizs^uX.  Philadelphia 
lalt  Spring.  **  Pier  Husband  was  then  at  Sea,  and  fince  his 
_  *'  Return  home,  hc.s  greatly  perfecuted  his  W^ife,  denying 
'♦**her  fpiritual  Friends  leave  to  come- unto  her.  God  now 
*'.^*  inchned  his  Heart  to  let  me  come  and  pray  with  her,  ac- 
•^^^  cording  to  her  Defire.  When  I  went  tiie  firft  Time,  he 
•a*;**,  was  not  in  tht-  Room,  but  was  oftended  that  he  was  not 
^^  called  uptojom  withus.     The  next- D:i5r«-he  himfdf  .met 


jz  Mr.  Whitefi£ld'j  Journal 

"  me  in  the  Street,  and  gave  me  an  Invitation.  I  com- 
*'  plied,  and  viiited  his  Wife  leveral  Times,  But  never  be-. 
"  fore  did  I  fee  a  Soul  fo  exult  in  God,  and  talk  Ho  feeling!}'  " 
"  of  the  Love  of  Jefus,  though  fomctimes  in  E.viremlty  of 
«'  Pain.  Sometimes  Ihe  was  fo  full  of  God  that  Ihe  could 
"  not  fpeak,  and  at  other  Times,  vi'hen  Ihe  could  not  fpeak, 
'*.  and  /  bid  her  lift  tip  her  Hands  If  alt  was  welly  {heftreich- 
*'  them  with  great  Earneftnefs.  As  foon  as  ever  flie  could 
"  recover  Breath,  £he  would  talk  of  Jefus,  faying  that  hrs 
*'  Love  was  above  her  Pain,  that  (lie  longed  to  be  di.Tolved, 
"  but  was  willmg  to  tarry  the  Lord's  Leifurc.  When  I 
*'  told  her,  that  I  ivanted  to  be  gone  too.  No,  fays  (he,  do 
*«  you  Hay  longer,  and  bring  home  Come  more  Souls  to 
*'  Chrift ;  with  many  other  gracious  Words,  which  dropped 
*'  from  her  Mouth.  My  Soul  was  much  enlarged  to  hear  a 
<«  Creature  talk  v/ith  fuch  Affurance  juft  upon  the  Brink  of 
'<  Eternity.  Her  Husband  and  other  Friends  flood  weep- 
**  ing  by.  God  gave  me  a  great  AfTiflance  in  Prayer.  His 
*<  Prefcnce  filled  the  Room,  and  fomc  I  thought  v/ould  have 
**  cried  cut."  Oh  that  this  Sicknefs  may  be  a  Means  undtr 
God  of  faving  her  Relations  precious  and  immortal  Souls  !  Af- 
ter my  Departure,  fhe  bid  one  of  my  Friends  tell  me,  "  Tbat 
"  (he  fed  and  lived  upon  the  Dotflrine  which  1  had  preach'd.''' 
When  he  asked  her,  J Fhat  (he  thought  of  the  Right eoufnefs  cf 
Chriji  ?  "  Oh,  fays  file,  my  Soul  is  wrapped  up  in  it  !— 
Lord  fefiis^  let  her  repofe  her  Confidence  in  thee  even  to  the 
lajl.  Into  thy  Hands  I  commend  her  Spirit :  For  thou  haji  re- 
deemed ity  0  Lord  thou  God  of  Truth  ! 

Sunday,  November  i6.  Preach'd  both  Morning  and  Even- 
ing, and  collected  both  Times  about  105  /.  Sterling  fur  the 
Orphans.  \\\  the  Morning  my  Soul  was  peculiarly  enlarged, 
tho'  I  was  fomewhat  dejected  before  I  left  my  Lodgings.  .  Li 
the  Afternoon,  J  publickly  baptized  five  adult  Women,  who 
had  undergone  a  11  rich  Examination.  Before  Sermon  I  gave 
them  an  carneil;  Exhortation.  They  melted  fweetly  und«r 
the  Word,  and  every  thing  was  carried  one  with  great  So- 
lemnity, I  preached  from  thtfe  Words  of  St.  Judcy  Biitys^ 
Beloved^  buildingup  yiurfsives  on  your  mofr  hciy  Faiih,  praying 
in  the  Holy  Ghojl,  keep  yourfelvcs  m  the  Love  of  God,  looking 
for  the  Mercy  of  our  Lord  Jefus  ChriJI  unto  eternal  Life.  The 
Congregation  was  very  large,  ti^o'  i  think  not  near  fo  large 
as  when  I  took  my  Leave  laft  Spring.  Tk-re  was  Abun- 
dance of  Weeping  when  I  came  to  the  C'oncluhon  of  my 
Difcouffc,     Great  Numbers  flock'd  to  my  LyJtj;in2!>,  fume 

under 


at  GLOUCESTER.  73 

under  Dii^refs,  fome  to  give  Thanks  for  what  God  had 
done  for  their  Souls,  unci  others  to  prefent  me  with  fome- 
thing  for  the  poor  Orphans.  One  that  was  hapcized  brought 
three  Children.  I  baptized  them,  prayed,  and  gave  a  Word 
of  Exhortation  with  a  melting  Pleart  to  many  dear  Souls. 
In  the  Evening  I  went  with  my  dear  Friend  Mr.  Noble  to, 
take  a  final  Leave  of  Mx?.  D—  yet  rejoicing  in  God.  Vi- 
fifed  a  poor  diftra<5ted  Woman,  and  afterwards  went  to  the 
Boys  Society,  where  I  met  with  a  tender  hearted  Lad  or 
two  ;  then  I  returned  home,  and  at  \x\\  went  to  Bed,  quite 
weary  as  to  my  outward  M^n,  but  inwardlv  rejoicing  in  God 
mv  Saviour.  Oh  that  I  could  do  more  for  Jefus  Chri/i  !  He 
is  kinder  and  kinder  to  me  every  Day.  Praife  the  Lord,  O 
my  ISoul  ! 

Glcucefler  and  Grccmmch^   Weft  ycrfeys. 

Monday,  November  17.  Was  much  melted  at  parting  from 
my  deiif  Friends.  Had  it  much  imprfefleJ  upon  mv  Mind,  "that 
I  fliould  go  to  Englayid^  and  unlergo  Trials  for  tlie  Truth's 
Sake.  Thefe  Words,  The-'Jevji  fovght  to  Jlone  thee.,  and goejl 
thou  thither  again  ?  wn\  r,u;  r;!"-d's  Anfwer,  have  beentbrfome 
Time  lying  upon  me:  And  whilft  my  Friends  were  weep- 
ing round  me,  5f.  p^;«/'8  Words  darted  into  m  '  Snul.  fVhat 
7nean  you  to  weep  andbrcrih  my  Heart  ?  I  am  wiHing  not 
only  to  be  boitnd^  but  io  die  Jir  the  Lord  J ef us.  After  fervent 
Prayer,  I  took  mv  Leave  -^i  l';n;'j,  bur  oeing  to  preach  at 
Glouccjier  in  the  IVe/}  ycrfeys,  others  accompanied  me  in 
Boats  over  the  River.  We  fijng  as  we  failed,  but  my 
Heart  was  low.  I  preached  at  Glouccjier^  hut  found  myfeif 
weighed  down,  and  not  abie  to- deliver  m\-  Sermon  with  my 
ufudl  Vig'^ur.  However,  there  vvas  an  affeetmg  Meiting, 
and  feveral  (as  I  heard  afierwaros)  .w.ho  had  been  in  Bondage 
befoce,  at  that  Time  received  Joy  in  the -^HoK'  GhoiK» 
Wuh  Abundance- of  Tears,  after  Dinner  mofl;  of  Philadel- 
phia Friends  that  c?.me  over  the  Water  took  their  M\  Fare- 
well. To  fee  us  part  was  forrewhat  Moving.  I  rode  on 
in  Company  with  fs.ye'al  to  Greenwich,  and  preached  to  a 
few,  and  fcarce  with  any  Pov/er.  My  Animai  Spirits  we're 
almoR  gone,  and  AfTiftances  ftifpended.  In  the  Evening  ivfe 
travelled  on  a  few  Miies,  but  m.y  Body  was  more  and  moi^ 
Out  of  Order,  »nd  1  thought  God  was  preparing  me  fof  fu^ 
ture  BI  fiings.  It  is  godd  to  be  humbled,  l am  never  Icttef 
than  when  Itim  brcii^ht^i^  He  'a'fihe  Foot  ofHhe  Crof):''4t 
K  is 


>^  4.  Mr.  W  H I T  E  F I E  L  D 'i  '^oiirual 

is  a  certain  Sig^  God  intends  f^haf^^oul  a  greaUr  Cr^,wn.  Lord 
let  me  always  feel  my f elf  a  poor  SiNner.   jimeyi  ^n4^Atnen^ 

piles-grop^e:'""-'"" 

tuefdayy  NovcinheriZ.  Wjls  fomcwhat  better  in  the  Morn- 
ing ;  preached  ?it:  Pi Ics-Grcve  in  the  Afternoon  to  about  2000 
People.  Saw  only  a  few  itfFcded.  God  was  pltafcd  to  re- 
llrain  me,  but  at  Night  where  1  lodged,  God  was  pleafcd 
fp  abundantly  to  refiefli  my  Soul,  as  to  make  me  forget  the 
Weaknefs  of  my  Body.  I  prayed  and  exhorted  with  great 
Power  in  the  Family  where  I  lodged.  V'ifible  Impreffions 
were  made  upon  the  Hearers.  Ob  that  they  may  be  abiding  ! 
Ate  a  little  :  But  was  enriched  plentifully  with  that  Bread 
which  /f  Meat  indeed  and  Drink  indeed.  An  Earneft  the 
Lord  intends  Good  to  fome  Souls  hereabouts.  Even  fo^ 
Lord  J^ftiSy  Amen  and  Amen. 

-.,T  ;.,     Cohcnfie^   i8  Miles  from  PUcs-Grove. 

Wednefday,  November    19.      Had   two  precious   Meetings 

To  day  at  Cohanfie.  Preached  to  feme  Thoufands  both 
Morning  and  Afternoon.  The  Word  gradually  {truck  the 
Hearers  till  the  whole  Congregation  waa  greatly  moved  in- 
deed, and  two  cried  out  in  the  Bitternefs  of  their  Souls,  after 
a  crucified  Saviour,  and  were  fcarce  able  to  ftand.  My 
Soul  was  replenifhed  as  with  new  Wine,  and  Life  and 
Power  flew  all  around  me.  At  this  Place,  dear  Adr.  Gilbert 
Tennent  preached  fome  TiniQ  ago.  At  his,  as  well  as  the 
People's  Requell,  I  came  thither.  Bleffed  be  God,  his  Gof- 
;pel  fpreads  more  and  more.  Lord  carry  it  on  fur  thy  ovjn 
'^^'^ii^'^h^rM-  4'Hf^-  ^"^  Amen. 
,t)yvom  vfoiitlijmv.'j...,  .  ni      r 

D'S  ui  -ivn  o^W,   I  o  Miles  iiora  Lcbaf/Jte,  ,     .     ■- , 

'^.Tfjurfdayy  Navember  20.  Preached  twice  hgre  this  Day,^; 
in  the  Morning  in  the  Court- houfe  ;  in  thq  ,  4^'-?^''^°°"  A?* 
the  open  Air,  before  thePrifjn,  to  about;  2CCC,  :  ^odi  Times 
Cod  was  with  us.  In  the  Morning  cfpecially  there. was 
one. cried  out  and  furicked  molt  p;tt,'0uily,  and  would  not  be 
comforted.  Aficr  Service,  tvvQ,,,gr  ibr|ee  came  to  me  quite 
^weighed  down  with  the  Burden  .qF  ^in.  ./Fhey  told  me, 
,^'  God  had  Itruck  ihem  by  Mr.  ^«!);«tf/ir's  Preaching,  but 
i^Yy^ow  ihey  were  itruck  much  Jee;x.T."     I  gave  i.hem  what 

Advice 


at    NEJVCASrLE.  ys 

Advice  I  thought  proper,  and  about  five  left  Salem.  O  that 
the  Prince  of  Peace  would  CG7ne  and  take  Pejejjlon  of  the 
Inhabitants  Hearts  ! 

Ne-wcajl'e,   13   Miles  from  Salem,  and  Whitcclny 
Crcek^  in  Pennj)k)ania, 

Friday^  Ncvotr.her  2i.  Got  hither  with  fome  Httle  Diffi- 
culty Tibout  Midnight.  Preached  in  the  Moriiing  in  tliC 
Court-Houfe.  Obferved  fome  few  2ffe£lcd,  and  fome  few 
fcofHng.  Met  dear  Mr.  Charles  Tcnnent.  Went  with  him 
to  ll'%iteclay  Creek.  As  we  pafied  along,  Mr,  A — ;z,  the 
Prcib)  terian  Minilter  who  oppofed  me  lalt  Spring  at  Fork's 
Maytnor.,  gave  us  the  Meeting.  Tiiinking  he  intended  to  go 
by,  I  did  not  ftop,  only  pull'd  ofF  my  Hat.  He  turning 
about  faid,  JVhat,  will  you  not  /hake  Hands  ?  I  gave  hirn 
my  Hand.  He  then  asked  me,  To  have  a  Conference^  as  he 
defired  %vhcn  lafi  at  Fork's  Manner.  I  told  liim,  *•■  Since 
"•  he  had  begun  by  fending  the  Qi^)eries  in  Pubiick,  I  was  re- 
"  folved  to  decline  all  private  Converfation."  This,  as  I 
found  afterwards,  highly  ofFendt^d  him.  Two  or  three 
more  of  his  Aflbciatcs  were  at  Whiteclay  Creek:  And  God 
was  pleafed  to  appear  for  me  in  an  extraordinary  Manner. 
There  were  many  Thoufands  waiting  to  hear  the  Word. 
I  have  not  feen  a  more  lovely  Sight.  I  fang  the  xxiii. 
Pfalm,  and  thefe  Words  gave  my  Soul  unfpeakable  Comfort. 

///  Prefence  of  my  fpitefnl  Foes, 
He  does  7ny  Table  fp-.ead. 

^' ■  T he  Lord  Jefus  affifled  me  in  Preaching.  The  Melting 
foon  begun,  and  the  Power  increafed  more  and  more  till 
thegreateft  Part  of  the  Congregation  was  exceedingly  moved. 
Several  cried  out  in  different  Parts,  and  others  were  to  be 
feen  wringing  their  Hands,  and  weeping  bitterly.  The  Stif 
was  ten  Times  greater  than  when  I  was  here  laft.  After 
Sermon  I  went  about  three  Miles,  and  lay  at  Mr.  Charks 
Tennent^  Houfe,  who  has  lately  married  a  young  Lady 
whom  God  was  pleafed  to  awaken  by  my  Miniftry.  Here 
I  had  fweet  Converfation  with  Mr.  Blair,  and  Mr.  Craig- 
head, but  being  taken  very  ill,  I  was  obliged  to  retire  to 
Reft.  Bleffed  be  God.,  there  is  a  Time  coming,  when  all  tHeft 
"interruptions  (hall  he  done  away.    .  '         ,  *         

?DivJa/ 


7^.  M%  Wh it e pi E^D'i  younial 

Oh!  tnay  riucrthy  prove  io  fee  < 

Thy  Saints   in   full  Prsfperity, 
That  J  the  joyful  Chcir  may  join, 
.   Jnd  coutit  thy  PapWs  Tyiu7npbs 


OS  mine. 


FOU^K'j    MANNOR. 

Saturdayy  November  22,  Preached  in  the  Afternoon  to  ma- 
ny T'houfands,  and  God  was  again  pkafcd  mightily  to  own 
his,.Wt)rd.  TiiCxe  was  a  wondrous  powerful  Amoving,  but 
it,  did  nut  rife  to  fuch  a  Degree  as  when  I  preached  laft  Spring. 
XvJds  taken  ill  after  Preaching,  Straining  cauftd  me  to  vov 
mit  much.  1  rode  about  twelve  Miles,  was  kindly  received 
iiJto  a  Houfe  with  all  my  Friends,  and  thought  it  advifable' 
to  retire  to  Bed  immediately.  But  on  a  fudden,  Gog's-  Pre- 
fcnce  fo  lilkd  my  .Soul  that  I  could  fcarce  {land  under  it, 
I  prayed  and  exhorted,  then  exhorted  and  prayed  ag:.in,  but 
with  fuch  Power  that  every  Pcrfon  m  the  Room  fecmed  to 
be  under  very  great  ImprelTions,  fighing  and  weeping  from 
the  \try  Bottom  of  their  Souls,  and  one  in  particular  roared 
for  the  very  Difquietnefs  of  her  Htart.  7'his  continued  for 
near  an  Hour  or  two  ;  but  at  laft  my  outward  Man  was  fo 
weak,  and  my  inward  Communications  fo  ilrong,  that  I 
•was  quite  overpowered.  A  dear  Friend  undreffed  me.  The 
Lord  gave  me  fvveet  Sleep,  and  m  the  Morning  I  arofe  with 
my  natural  Strength  much  r<.newed.  Bleffd  be  the  Lord  my 
God^  from  tuhoin  alone  cometh  every  temporal  Gift,  as  well  as 
my  eternal  Salvation  / 

JNOrriNGHAM. 

Sunday,  November  23.  Rode  four  Miles,  and  got  to  Not- 
tirtgham  about,  ten,  But  it  raining  much,  and  the  People 
thereby  be.ng  prevented  gathering  fo  foon,  I  preaclied  about 
one  to  a  large  Congregatio(i,  who  feeni'd  in  no  wife  to  re- 
gard the  Rain,  fo  they  might  be  watered  with  the  Dew  gf 
God'.s  IJlefiing,,  The  .Lord,  I  believe,  lets  the  D' £lrme  di^ 
ill!  like  th^  D^)^  upon,  .them.  Immediately  after  Sermon,- 
•we  fetout  in  a  very  great  Company  {qx  Boheviiaxn  Mary- 
IdnJy  near  thirty  !Milcs  Uxm  Noifingham,  and  corny  plea- 
iing  Surprize,  as  we  were  riding  along,  met  with  Captain 
(5— «,  whom  I  fent  over  with  Mr.  Seward  to  England,  He 
arrived  at  iVi;zf<7^/f,  in,  the  Morning,  and  very  providentially 


at  FEN  SYLVAN  I  J.  yj 

came  to  me  in  the  Afternoon.  I  have  been  waiting  for  Let- 
ters (that  I  knew  were  fent  me)  for  fome  Weeks.  God  hath 
kept  them  from  mc,  but  he  hath  fcnt  me  v.^hat  is  better.  Oh 
may  this  teach  vie^  0  Lord,  more  and  more  to  wait  on,  and 
reftgn  my  Will  to  thine.  For  I  know  thou  wilt  order  all  things 
for  my  temporal  and  eternal  Good.     Oh  Grace^  Grace  ! 

Bohemia  m  Mai-ylarJ,   and  St.  George's  in  PeJtn- 
Jyhania. 

Monday.  November  2^.   Got   hither  about   1 1  laft   Night, 

and  was   moft  kindly  received    by  old   Mrs.  B dy  a  true 

Mother  in  Ifrael,  many  of  whofe  Family  are  under  very 
good  Impreffions.  Read  my  Englijh  Letters^  had  great  Free- 
dom given  mc  in  anfwering  them,  and  thought  it  was  now 
the  Will  of  God  that  I  {hould  imbark  for  my  native  Coun- 
try next  Spring.  O  Lcrd^  prepare  thy  Way  before  me  ! 
Preached  in  the  Afternoon  to  about  two  Thoufand,  and  have 
not  feen  a  more  folid  Melting,  I  think,  fmce  my  Arrival. — 
Some  Scoffers  flood  on  the  Outfide,  but  the  Holy  Spirit  en- 
abled me  to  lay  the  Terrors  of  the  Lord  before  them,  and 
they  grew  more  ferious.  Several  poor  Souls  wanted  to  go 
with  me,  and  many  of  their  Hearts  feemed  ready  to  break. 
My  Soul  much  rejoiced  in  the  Lord  to  fee  Salvation  brought 

to  Maryland,   I  parted  from  good  eld  Mrs.  B d  in  Tears, 

and  rode  with  my  Friends  about  ten  Miles  to  a  Place  called 
St.  George'?.,  where  a  kind  and  courteous  Quaker  received 
us  into  his  Houfe.  Here  God  gave  me  great  Freedom  of  Spi- 
rit, made  my  Pen  the  Pen  of  a  ready  Writer,  and  (hewed 
me  more  and  nic're  clearly  the  Way  whr-ein  i  iliould  £0. 
Lord  guide  me  with  thy  Counfcl  till  thou  doji  bring  me  to  ever- 
lajilng  Glory! 

REEDT'ISLAND, 

Monday.  December  i  Came  to  Reedy- JJland  laft  Tuef- 
day  Moriiirg,  and  had  a  wonderful  Prefence  of  God  in  the 
Ailemlily  in  the  Afternoon.  Several  of  my  dezx  Philadelphia 
Friends  came  to  take  their  lafl  Farcwel.  The  Holv  Ghoft 
en:ibled  me  to  preach  with  fuch  Power  to  them  and  fome 
others  in  the  Evening,  that  one  was  thrown  into  Itrong  Con- 
vulfion?,  by  the  Violence  of  her  Convjdons.  OhTS 
were  in  great  Agonies.  All  I  believe  were  mc.tc'  doA-r..^ 
O'OrWednefday,   Saturday^  ?ind  Sunday,    I  preached  again. — 

The 


78  Mr,  White  hi^L^s  'Journal 

The  Lord  was  with  us  every  Time.  My  Soul  enjoyed  much 
of  the  divine  Prefence' in  the  Sloop,  and  I  was  greatly  de- 
lighted to  fee  the  Captains  of  the  Ships,  and  their  refpc^iive 
Crews  come  conftant.'y  to  attend  to  hear  the  Word  on  Shore, 
and  join  with  us  in  religious  Exerciies  on  Board,  Dear  Cap- 
tain H — /,  Matthew-like^  was  very  bufy  in  bringing  liis  Bro- 
ther Publican  Sailors  to  hear  the  glad  Tidings  of  Salvation, 
and  he  rejoiced  my  Heart  with  the  News  that  fame  of  them 
felt  the  Power  of  God.  This  Morning  the  Wind  fpringing 
up  fair,  we  {zt  fail  from  Recdy-IJIand.  "  But  before  I  -o  on, 
'*  flop,  O  my  Soul,  and  look  back  a  little  on  the  great 
**  Things  the  Lord  hath  done  for  thee  during  this  Excurfion. 
**  1  think,  it  is  now  the  75th  Day  fmce  I  arrived  at  Rhode- 
*'  Jjland. — My  Body  was  then  weak,  but  the  Lord  has 
'*  much  renewed  its  Strength.  1  have  been  enabled  to  preach, 
*'  I  think,  175  Times  in  Public,  befides  exSiorting  very  fre- 
^'  quently  in  private.  I  have  travelled  upwards  of  800 
'*  Miles,  and  gotten  npv^ards  of  700  /.  Sterling  in  Goods, 
**  Provilions  and  Money  for  my  poor  Orphans.  Never  did 
*'  God  vouchfafe  me  fuch  great  Afiiftanccs.  Never  did  I 
**  perform  my  Journeys  with  fo  little  Fatigue,  or  fee  fuch  a 
*'  Continuance  of  the  divine  Prefence  in  the  Congregations, 
*'  to  whom  I  have  preached.  All  Things  concur  to  convince 
'*  me,  that  America  is  to  be  my  chief  Scene  for  Adtion."  /l/<7jr 
the  Lord  prepare  ?ne  for  every  thing  he  has  appointed  for  me  to 
do  and  fiiffer^  and  then  I  need  not  fear  being  mare  than  Con^ 
queror  thro''  his  Love. 

Charlejlown  in  South-Carolina. 

TVednefdayy  December  10.  Had  a  pleafant  Pafiage,  and  ar- 
rived at  Charleflown  lait  Night.  As  we  came  over  the  Bar. 
I  was  informed  of  a  melancholy  Fire,  that  broke  out  about 
three  Weeks  ago,  and  deftroyed  300  Houfes  in  the  beft  Part 
of  Charleflown  in  the  Space  of  about  three  Hours.  The  News 
much  affccled  me,  becaufe  I  loved  the  People,  and  I  preached 
to  them  this  Morning  fiom  Ifaiah  i.  q.  Except  the  Lord  of 
Hofls  had  left  tnifo  us  a  very  fmatl  Retrmant,  we  Jhoidd  have 
been  as  Sodom ^  and  xue  fhould  have  been  like  unto  Gotftorrah.  In 
handling  the  SubjecJ,  I  endeavoured  to  (licw  what  were  the 
Sins  which  provoked  God  to  punifli  the  Ifraelites  in  that  man- 
ner. I  drew  a  Parallel  between  them  and  the  Charlcflcwn- 
People,  and  then  made  an  Application  fuitable  to  the  iolcmn 
Occafion  of  my   Preaching.     May    the  Lord  grant  it  may 

pro- 


^^M  GEORGIA.  79 

produce  the  dcfired  Effect ^  and  be   a   Means    of  preferving  thi 
^InhahUanUjrom  Uingcap in\c.t]^^^  Flre^  which  never  Jhall  be 
<iuenchedf^  bns  ^eqiriTad/^'J 
■J  bioWar',:,      :  '     ,  '  .  ""' 

a    .hi^oU  Bethefda  in  Georgia. 

tr Sunday,  Decefnler  14.  Preached  again  at  Charlejlotvn  on 
Wednefday  Evening.  Anfwered  fome  Letters  that  I  received 
from  England.  Went  on  Board  on  Thurfday  ;  reached  5^- 
vannah  on  Saturday  about  Midnight ;  Preach'd  this  Morning, 
and  arrived  fafely  at  Bethefda  (where  I  found  my  Family  com- 
fortably fettled)  this  Afternoon,  My  Sou!  was  much  touched 
with  a  Senfe  of  God's  Mercies,  When  I  came  to  pray  with 
an  old  Chriftian  in  our  Infirmary,  it  fo  overwhelmed  me  that 
I  could  fcarce  ftand  under  it.  The  Love  of  God  was  flied 
abroad  in  my  Heart  abundantly  thro'  the  Holy  Giioft, 
Thanks  be  to  God  for  ihefe,  and  all  his  other  unfpeakable  Gifts^ 
through  ffiis  Chrijl  our  Lord  ! 

Monday,  December  29.  Enjoyed  a  very  comfortable  Chrtji- 
mas  at  Beth  f da,  having  God  often  with  us  in  my  public  Mi- 
niftrations  amongft  the  Family  and  Labourers.  One  Wo- 
man received  Chrift:  in  a  glorious  Manner,  and  feveral  others 
were  brought  under  ftrong  Convidions.  On  Chriflmas  Day 
I  married  Mr,  Periam  to  one  of  the  Schcol-MiflrefTes  which 
I  brought  out  of  England;  and  \a{\  Saturday  I  alfo  mar- 
ried   Mr,  Haberfljam  to    xMr.  B 's    Daughter,   whom  I 

brought  with  me  from  Philadelphia,  and  who  was  converted 
fume  time  ago  at  Savannah.  Both  Times  the  Bridegroom  of 
the  Church  was  prefent  with  us  in  an  efpecial  Manner:  And 
many,  I  hope,  felt  an  Union  between  Jefus  Chrift  and  their 

Souls.     Having  appointed  Mr,  D ;•   to  take  care  of  the 

fpiritual,  and  Mr.  H—m  to  fuperintend  the  outward  Affairs 
of  the  Orphan-houfe,  and  fettled  all  things  to  my  Satisfac- 
tion, fiiiding  my  Call  clear  to  England,  I,  laft  Night,  took 
a  forrowful  and  afFeclionate  Leave  of  my  Family  ;  and  this 
Day  V  ent  to  Savannah,  but  narrowly  efcaped  being  {hot  by 
a  Labourer  walking  behind  me  with  a  Gun  under  his  Arm. 
The  Gun  went  oft'  unawares,  but  the  Mcuth  of  it  providen- 
tially was.cowards  the  Ground,  Otherwife  I  and  one  of  my 
Friends,  in  all  probability,  ihould  have  been  killed  ;  for  we 
weredireaiy  before,  and  not  above  a  Yard  or  twodittant  from 
it.  Hoio  ought  ive  to  live  in  fucb  a  State  as  we  would  not  fear 
to -die  in  I.  For  in  the  midfi  of  l^fewe QmimBiaik^.   ,x.KVi'i 


8 o  Mr.  Whitefield'j  'Journal 

In  the  Evening  I  preached  at  Savannah,  and  took  my  fi- 
nal Leave  of  the  People,  it  beijig  inconfiftiint  with  my  other 
Affairs  to  a£l  as  therr  PaJIor  nny  more.  Another  Minifter  is 
not  yet  come,  but  is  expected  daily.  I  gave  the  Truftees  no- 
tice January  hft  of  my  Defign  to  give  up  the  Parfonage, 
Bleflcd  be  God,  I  am  now  more  free  to  evangelize  arid  go 
whicherfoever  the  Lord  lliall  be  pleafed  to  call  me.  I  yet  hope 
well  of  Georgia^  tho',  at  prefenc,  in  a  very  declining  and  pi- 
teous State.  It  will  floMrifh,  I  believe,  when  fettled  upon  a 
religious  Foundation.  Till  then  God  will  infatuate  the  Coun- 
fcli  of  Men,  or  bring  tl>em  to  nought.  It  was  fo  with  New- 
England.  I  am  perfuaded  it  will  be  fo  with  Neiv-Georgia. 
Glory  be  to  God,  i  leave  behind  me  feme  who  love  the  Lord 
Jefus  in  Sincerity.  Heavenly  Father ^  dejiroy  not  the  Pro- 
vince for  their  Sakcs^  and  for  thy  own  Name's  Sake  grant  it 
may  yet  take  Root  downwardsy  and  bear  Fruit  up'iuards  / 
Amen  and  Amen. 

Mr.  Jonathan  B 's  Plant:ition  near  Pert- Royal 

in  South-Carolina. 
Thurfdayy  January  i.  1741.   Left  Savannah  on  Turfday  in 
the  Afternoon.     Arrived  here   this   Morning  about  Two  o' 

Clock,  with  fome  Friends  in   Mr.  Jonathan  B 's  Boat* 

u-ho,  with  fome  others,  came  to  Bethcfda^  in  h<Mies  of 
my  returning  with  them.  1  truft,  he  and  twa  or  three 
more,  fince  our  laft  ]\Ieeting  are  fc^ttled  in  Chriil,  and  have 
got  Satisfaftion  about  their  Intereft  in  him.  In  the  After- 
noon I  preached  at  his  Houfe  to  fcvera!  o\  the  neighbouring 
People.  The  Lord  make  it  a  Bethel.  In  the  Evening  came 
Mr,  Hugh  B w,  his  Brother,  lately  converted  at  Sa- 
vannah. His  Wife  died  fv>me  time  ago  ;  in  what  Frame,  tl.c 
following  Letter,  which  he  fent  to  a  Niece  of  his  now  at  Be- 
ihcfda^  willbcfl  teftify. 

Dear  Child, 
TjNdcr -written  are  the  Dying  TFcrds  cf  your  Aunt^  which  I 
^^  fcrid  for  ysur  SatisfaP.ion  and  Infoi-iiiation.  She  ditd  Oc- 
tober yth,  between  the  Flours  of  Nim  and  Ten  in  the  Morn- 
ing,  being  filed  with  the  full  AfTurancc  of  Faith  in  Chrifl, 
and  a  j'-'yful  Hope  of  eternal  Salvation  through  hi.  Meri  ts  and 
Mediation. 

As  your  Aunt   and    I  zvere   praying    to  cur  Lord  Jefus  to 

give  her  the  Comforts  of  his  Holy  Spirit  to  fuppoit    her  un- 

2  dcr 


at  sour  H -CARD  LIN  A.       8i 

der  the  Agonies  of  Deatk^  Jhe  replied^  \  fee  him  I  I  fc;e  him  ' 
Now  I  fee  Light !  After  this  flie  continmd  in  Prayer  about 
half  an  Hoia\  but  her  speech  failing  her,  we  could  not  during 
that  Time  underjland  what  jhe  fpake  \  only  we  cov.ld  hear  the 
Name  of  fefus  often^  and  Come  Jefus,  Come  Jcfiis  !  Then 
again  foe  [pake  out  piairdy,  and  fat  d,  Wiio  would  (J  ie  with- 
out a  God  ?  Now  I  fee  Light.  God  has  let  me  fee  my 
Error.  I  had  not  repented  ot  my  original  Sin.  Gh  the  Falfe- 
nefsofour  Hearts !  G  iearch  your  Hearts  before  you  come  to 
this  ;  for  they  are  falfi-'.  Then  J): e  lay  in  an  Agony  about  half 
an  thiir^  and  again  fpake  out,  andfiid,  Gcd  lias  let  me  fee 
great  and  glorious  Things   which  would  not   be   believed,   if 

they   were   told.      Then  your  Uncle   R s  coming  into  the 

Room  fpake  to  your  Aunt  ^ s,  and  your  dying  Aunt  hear- 
ing his  Voice.,  ccilleth  him  to  her,  and  when  he  ivas  come,  /be 
jpake  to  us  and  f  lid.  Mind  what  I  fay  to  you  ;  for  hereafter 
you  mull  all  give  an  Account  of  what  I  now  fay  to  you  ; 
for  I  fpeak  by  the  Spirit  of  God.  He  has  enabled  me  to 
fpcaic  to  you  before  I  go,  (for  I  am  juft  a  going.)  Then  fh- 
faid,  God  is  a  juft  God  as  well  as  merciful.  Be  diligent  in 
fearching  your  Hearts.      Brother,  icU  Mr.  — — -  he  is  in  tli^ 


wron 


g.  Then  fe faid.  My  Pain  is  great,  but  Chrift  is  fuf- 
ficient  for  me.  And jhe  repeated,  that  God  had  let  her  fee 
great  Things  that  would  not  be  believed,  if  they  were  told. 
She  Jaid  alfo,  f'ollow  Whitefeld,  God  will  bkfs  him  where- 
ever  he  goes.— Don't  fpeak  lightly  of  him.  Bkfs  him,  blcfi 
him.  God  has  enabled  me  to  fpeak  to  you  before  I  go,  I 
am  juft  a-going.  Farewel,  Farewel.  God  be  with  you  ! 
Then  /he  compsfcd  herfelf,  and  lay  about  half  an  Hour,  and 
neither  7noved  nor  groan\l,  except  her  Lips  and  Tongue,  and 
the  heaving  of  her  Breaji  in  breathing,  feemiug  to  be  in  her 
perfeSl  Senfes  till  about  a  Minute  before /Jje  die^L—She  looked 
round  at  each  of  \xs  that  zvere  about  her  Bed,  and  then  depart- 
ed in  ^ietncfs.  Her  Hands  and  Arms,  up  to  her  Elbows, 
were  cold,  and  alfo  her  Face,  when  foe  fpake  zvhat  is  here  in- 
ferted,  and  fame  time  before.  As /he  l^y  begging  that  the  Lord 
would  take  her  aioay,  I  felt  her  Nofe,  and  told  her,  it  was 
cold  ;  and  foe  replied,  Blelled  be  God  for  it ;  and  again.  My 
Soul  thirftcth  after  thee,  I  come,  Lord  Jefus,  I  come. 

Thus  far  Mr.  .^;7^;/.  I  fliall  only  add,  O  Death,  where 
is  thy  Sting !  O  Grave,  where  is  thy  Vi^ory  over  true  Be- 
lievers !  What  Fools  are  they  that  count  their  Liws  Madnefs  ! 

L  CHARLES^' 


Mr.  Wh  I  T  F  I  E  L  D'i-  Journal 


CHARLES  TOWN. 

Sunday,  yanuary  i^.     Came  hither  Ycfterday  in  Company 

with  both  the  Mr.  B 's,  and   feveral  other  dear  Friends. 

Had  the  Satisfaction  of  meeting  with -my  Brother  the  Captain^ 
and  hearing  from  him  feme  Account  of  Affairs  among  the 
Bretiiren  in  England.  The  Lord  enable  ine  tojieer  a  iv'tje  and 
Jieady  Courfe^  when  I  ccme  among  them !  Preached  twice 
this  Day,  and  expounded  in  the  Evening  to  large  Auditories. 
Was  molt  affectionately  entertained  at  the  Houfe  of  Mr.  F — r, 
and  enjoyed  much  of  the  divine  Piefcnce  and  Conr)lations  in 
ray  Soul.  Happy  they  whole  Lives  are  hid  with  Chrijl  in 
God! 

Saturday,  yannary  lo.  Preach'd  twice  every  Day  this 
Week,  and  expounded  frequently  in  the  Lven.ng  to  a.  great 
•Cumpiny  at  Mr.  P — ■ — 's.  The  Lord  Jefus  affiiled  and  en- 
lightned  me.  The  Holy  Ghoft  applied  the  Word  with 
Power.  Several  had  acquainted  me  what  God  had  done  for 
their  Souls  ;  and  one  was  tiJled  fo  with  Communications  from 
above,  when  a  Difcovery  of  Chrift  was  made  to  her  Soul, 
that  Ihe  continued  a  whole  Night  praying  to  and  praifing  God. 
Some  have  fallen  away  for  the  prefent,  hut  blflled  be  God, 
the  greatcit  Part  continue  fleadfafl:,  and  are  ratlitr  more  for- 
ward and.  affedtionate  than  ever.  Enemies  are  more  enraged. 
As  a  Proof  of  it,  take  the  following  Inilance. — When  Mr. 

'Jonathan  B -n  came  to  Georgia,  he  ihewed  me  a  Letter 

written    by  his  Brother  Mr.  Hugh  B n,  in  which  it  was 

.hintevj  that  the  Clergy  break  their  Canons  \  and  this  he  de- 
fired    me  to  correct  for   the  Prefs.     I  did.     It  was  publifhcd 

this  Week.     Inmieiliately  Mr.  B n  was  apprehended  and 

bound  over,  and  being  asked,  frankly  contefled  that  I  cor- 
redted  and  made  fome  Alterations  in  it.  This  Evening  a 
Conllable  came  to  me  with  the  following  Warrant. 


Sou th-  Curolina  S f. 

By  B —  r^:^^^scc. 

"'ETST'HereAs"  1    have  received    Informatidn    upon   Oathy 

^^     that   George  IVhiteJield  Clerk,   h.th  made   and   coni- 

pofed    a  faifc,  niaUcioltSy  fcandahusj   and  infamous   Libel, 

2  againft 


at    CAROLINA.  83 

againft:  the  Clergy  of  this  Prov'wce^  in  "Contempt  of  His 
Majejiy  and  His  Laws,  and  againft  the  King\  Peace  : 

Thtfj  are  therefore,  in  His  Majfjly's  Name,  to  charge 
and  command  you  and  c;xh  of  you /5;-/^zf/V/:>  to  apprehend  the 
faid  George  JVbitefield,  and  to  bring  him  before  iVIe  to  an- 
fwcr  tiie  Premijfts.  Hereof  fail  not,  at  year  Peri!.  And 
■  for  youryodoihgithis'fhall  be  your  and  each  of  your  fufl'icient 
Warrant.  ■      -' 

.         Given  tinder  my  Hand  and    Seal   this  tenth 
I  ir^he  G  J"f  5J;     ^''>'  ""^  .7^'"'^'-;''    •"  ^"^^^  fourteenth  ^/ear  of 
of  CbnrMoli:p^     ^'^"  Majejifs  Reign,    Anno    Domini    One 
»_,.   c^  ..        Thoufand  Seven  Hundred  and  Forty. 

T  went  before  the  C / ,  confefTed  that   I  had  re- 

vifed   and  corredted  Mr.  B 's  Letter   for'the  .P?Y/}i  and 

gave  Security  to  appear  by  my  Attorney  at  the  next  general 
garter  Sejjions.,  under  the  Penalty  of  ico /.  Proclamation- 
Money.'  Bleffed  be  God  for  this  further  Honour!  jMy  Soul 
rejoices  in  it.  I  think  this  may  be  called  Persecution. 
1  think  it  is  far  Rightesufnefs  Szkf;.  Oh  f  ho,w  gently  does  the 
Lord  deal  with  me^  and  by  thefe  little  forewarn^  cmd;  I  trujl^ 
prepare  me  for  greater  Trials  !  Father  forgive  myFerfccutors. 
f^ijtt  them  not  in  Jud^mcnt^  but  in  Mercy.  They  knoiv  not 
%vhat  thty  do: 

Sunday\  "January  ii.  Preached  this  Morning  upon  Herodrs 
fending  the  wife  Men  to  fmd  out  Chrift,  under:  a  Pretence 
that  he  intended  to  come  and  zuorjloip  him,  when  indeed  he 
intended  to  kill  him.  I  endeavoured  to  (hew  from  thence 
how  dreadful  it  was  to  perfecute  under  a  Pretence  of  Religion. 
Mr.  IV' 'iy. — d  telling  me,  that  what  he  did  was  out  of  a 
Senf^  of  Duty^  and  that  binding  me  ov.-'r  to  the  Sejfons  vjz%  no 
Perfeciitisn,  led  my  Thoughts-  this  Way.  In  the  Afternoon 
I  preached  from  Y/'r/fZ/'arx/i,  r  Kings  xxi.  12,  13,  They 
proclaimed  a  Fail:.,  and  fet  Naboth  on  high  amongfi  the  People, 
and  there  came  in  two  Men,  Children  of  Belial,  and  fat  be- 
fore him  :  And  the  Men  of  Belial  witnejjed  agaivjl  hi?ri,  even 
againft  Naboth,  in  the  Prefence  of  the  People,  faying,  Na- 
both  did  blafpheme  GOD  and  the  King.  Then  they  carried 
him  forth  out  of  the  City,  and  Jhncd.hijn  with  Stones  thdt  ha 
^Ud.  My  Hearers,  as  well  as  rnvftlf,  made  the  Application. 
Ifrwas  pretty  Ciofe.  And  I  efpecjaily  directed  my  Difcourfe 
to  Men  in  Authority,  and  fhewed  them' the  heinous  Sui  of  a- 
bufing  the  Power  which  God  h:id  put  in:o  their  H^nds.  In 
L  2  tl^e 


84         Mr,  WH=r^t¥iELD'j  'Journal 

the  Evening  I  expounded  on  the  Story  of  Or/><7)^  and  KiAth^  and 
exhorted  my'  Hearers  to  follow  the  Lord  JefusChriil  tbo'  hii 
Caufe  be  never  fo  much  perCecuted  and  fpoken  a^ainft.  Lord 
J'fus,  keep  us  from  being  ajhamcd  of  thee  or  of  thy  Gofpel. — 
Jmt-n  a/ul  Amen. 

Thurfday.,  January  15.   Received  feveral  comfortable  Let- 
ters fjom  my  dear  Friends  ar  Bojh?!  ;  amoneft  whom  Secre- 
tary/F/Z/^/t/,  an  honourable  CounfeJlor,  writes  thus:  "  Mr. 
*'  IVehb  tells   me,    that  divers  young   Men  in  this  Town, 
*'  who   are  Candidates   for  the  MiniUry,   have  been  brought 
"under   c/^^/>  Convi<iiions   by   your  Preaching,    and  (as    he 
*'  licpes)  are  carried  ofr  from  the  Foundation  of  their  falfc 
*'  Hopis  (their  own  Righteoufnefs)  to  reft  only  upon  Chriil 
'**'  for   Salvation."     The  dear  Reverend  Mr.  Cooper   writes 
thus:  "  r  can    inform  you,    that  there  aie    many  abiding 
-"-  Proofs  that  you  did  not  ru7i  in  vain,  and  labour  in  vain  a- 
^'  mongft  us   in   this  Place.     I  could   much   more   than  fill 
**  this  Paper  with  the  Accounts  I  have  received  from  tlie  Per- 
"  fbns  who  have  been  impreired  under  the  Word  preached  by 
**   you.      But   I  can  only  nov/  fay  in  general,  fotnc  have  been 
"  awakened  who  were  before  qnwt  fecure,  and  I  hope  a  good 
*'  Work  begun  in  them.     Others,   who  iiad  been  under  reli- 
"  gious  Imprefiions,  are  now  more  earneflly  prcllmg  uuo  the 
*'  Kingdom  of  Heaven,  and   many  of  the  Children  of  Gf-d 
*'   ftirred  up  to  give  Diligence  for  ihe  fu/I  Jj/iirarice  of  Foiih. 
*'  There  is   a  greater  Hocking  to  all    the   Le^ures   in   the 
*'   Town,  and  the  People  fhew  fuch  a  Difpofition  to  the  New 
*'   Tucfday  Evening  LeSiure^  that  our  large  capacious  Houfo 
"  cannot  receive  «// that  come.     I  am  fure  your  Vifit  to  us 
■"  has  made  a  large  Addition  to  the  Prayers  that  are  going  up 
**  for  you  in  one  Place  and  another,  and  I  hope  alfo  the  jew- 
'"  els  which  are  to  make  up  your  Crown  in  the  Dayo\  the 
*'  Lord."     Mr.  Welch.,  a  pious  Merchant,   writes  thus:   "  1 
"  fear  I  am  tedious,   but  I  can't  break  off  till  I  jult  mention, 
*'  to  the  Glory  of  the  Grace  of  God,   and    for   vour  Co.m- 
*'  fort  and  Encouragement,    the  Succels  your  Miniiiry  of  larc 
*'  lias  had  among  z/j.      Imprefiions    miide  fee m  to  be  abiding 
*'  on  the  Minds  of  many.     The  Do8rines  g(  Grace  feem    to 
*'  be  jnore  the    Topic  of  Converfation   thnn   ever    I  knew 
*'  them.      Nay,    religious  Converfation    fcettis    to  be  alrnoil 
**  fafl;ionahle\  and  alinolt  c^oery    cue  feems  difpofed  to  hear  cr 
''  fpeak  of  the  Things  of  God.     Muhitudes  flock  to  the  E- 
^'  \ti\\r\»  Ltfdfur'e.,  thb*   it  has  fometimes   been  the  wort t  cf 
^'  'Wcitiier.  .  Mmirters  feem  to  preach  with  more  Life,  and 

*'   the 


en  board  the  Minerva.  85 

*'  the  great  Auditories  feeni  to  hear  with  foltmn  Attention, 
*'  and,  I  hope,  our  Lord  Jefus  is  getting  to  himfeh^  the  V'^ic- 
"  ti)ry  over  the  Hearts  of  many  Sinneis."  Others  write  to 
the  fame  Effect.     All  Love,  all  Glory  be  to  God. 

For  this  let  Men  revile  my  Namey 

1^0  Crofs  I  Jhun,  I  jear  no  Shame  ; 

Jll  bail  Rtproacb  !  and  welcome  Pain  ! 

Only  tky  Terrors,  Lord,  rejirain.  _;    ....  \\ 

■J   'j-f,;   jn'W;     " 

Friday,  January  i6.  Preached  twice  every  Da^  this  Week, 
and  expounded  in  the  Evening  as  ufuah  Congregations  I 
perceived  much  encreafcd  fmce  Saturday  Night  iail,  as  alfo 
the  Pt;wer  which  the  Lord  gave  me.  I  never  received  fuch 
generous  Tolccns  of  Love,  I  think  from  any  People  before, 
as  from  fome  in  Charlejlown,  They  fo  loaded  me  with  Sea 
Stores,  that  I  fcnt  much  of  them  to  Savannah.  Having  now 
all  l^hings  fmifhed  according  to  my  Mind,  preached  my 
Farewel Sermon  h9c  Night,  and  fpoke-at  the  Burial  of  a  Qua- 
ker Woman,  at  the  Defire  of  her  furviving  Friends,  I  this 
Day  went  on  board  the  Minerva^  Captain  Meredith,  in  which 
1  took  Paffage  for  myfelf  and  fome  others  to  England.  Thou 
Gad  of  the  Sea  and  the  dry  L,and,  be  zvith  us  on  our  Voyage^ 
and  prepare  me  for  the  many  Perils  and  Mercies  that  await  ■ 
7ns  a7n:ngji  my  own  Countrymen.     Amen  and  Amen. 

On  board  tiie  Minerva. 

zf\  Sunday,  January  i8.  Continued  on  board  thefc  two  Days 
to  fettle  our  Ship  Affairs,  and  difpatch  fome  other  Bufmefs. 
Was  but  weak  in  Body.  The  Winds  being  contrary,  ma- 
ny Friends  came  from  Charlejlown,  and  we  fpent  the  After- 
noon very  comfortably  together.  I  preached,  and  the  Lord 
\^as  with  me.  Towards  the  Evening  our  Friends  left  us, 
not  v.-ithout  Hopes  of  feeing  each  other  hereafter  in  the  Land 
of  everlafting  Reft,  if  not  on  thu-  Side  Eternity.     Blcjfed  he 

■J2od,   that  there  is  fuch  a  Rcfi  remaining  for  his  People  ! 

oJ  Sailed  over  Charleflown  Bar,  January  24.  and  arrived  at 
Falmouth  on  the  i  Jth  of  March.  The  Lord  was  pleafed  to 
give  us  a  favourable  Pafi'age.  About  three  Days  after  we  fet 
fail,  we  had  a  violent  Storm,  which  continued  about  four 
Hours.  During  the  reft  of  the  Pafiage,  we  had  uncommon- 
ly pleafantWf.ather  and  fair  Winds,  till  we  came  very  near 
3iom  ri];  upon 


86  Mr.  W  H I T  E  F I  E  L  dV  Joiimal 

upon  Soundings.  Afterwards,  the  biefled  God  was  pleafctl 
to  detain  us  near  a  Fortnight.  But  the  Weather  was  pleafanr, 
and  through  the  Bounty  of  our  dear  Cbarlcjhwn  Friends, 
we  had  all  Thing;  richly  to  enjoy.  In  the  Beginning  of 
the  Voyage,  my  Body  was  weak,  and  mv  Soul  fomewhat 
low.  But  afterwards,  God  was  plcafed  to  ftrengtiien  me 
both  in  Body  and  Soul.  Thefe  Words  came  one  Day  with 
great  Power  upon  my  Heart,  Arlfe,  Go  into  Nineveh^  the 
great  C'liy^  and  preach  unto  it  the  Preaching  that  I  bid  thee. 
At  another  Time,  the  Lord  fpoke  to  me  by  thefe  Wi)rds, 
^ake  the  Foxes,  the  little  Foxes  that  fpoil  the  yines  :  For  our 
Vines  have  tender  Grapes.  This  Part  of  Jojeph's  Biefling  was 
one  Night  brought  home  to  me  with  a  fweet  Power  :  The 
■Archers  have  forely  grieved  him.,  and  JJjot  at  hirn,  and  hated 
him.  But  his  Bozv  abode  in  Strength,  and  the  Arms  of  his 
Hands  were  jnade  Jirong,  by  the  Hands  of  the  mighty  God  of 
'Jacob.  And,  at  another  Time,  when  my  Soul  was  dejccleJ 
at  a  Senfe  of  mv  own  WeaknclTcs,  and  the  Number  and 
Greatnefs  of  my  impending  Trials,  the  Lord  raifed  and  com- 
forted me  with  this  Prom ife:  Fear  thou  mt,  for  I  am  with 
thee  :  Be  not  difmaycd,  for  I  am  thy  God :  I  ivilljirengthen 
thee,  yea,  I  will  help  thee,  yea,  1  will  liphild  thee  ivith  iht' 
Right  Hand  of  my  Righteoufnefs.  The  Books  of  Gencfis  and 
Exodus,  whj'ch  I  expounded  in  Courfe,  Alorning  and  Even- 
ing, were  much  blelled  to  my  fpiritual  Comfort.  And  the 
Lord  has  been  pleafed  to  give  me  Freedom  to  write  down  fume 
of  my  extempore  Difcourfes,  which  I  hope  he  will  blefs  for 
his  own  Name's  Sake.  In  fhort,  this  Voyage  has  been  a 
proiitable  Voyage  to  my  Soul,  becaufc  of  my  having  had 
jmany  fweet  Opportunities  for  Reading,  Meditation  and  Prayer. 
I  cannot  but  adore  the  Providence  of  God  in  favouring  mc 
■with  fuch  blcfled  Retirements  as  I  hzsc  frequently  enjoyed  on 
the  great  V\^aters.  I  dar'd  not  expcft  to  meet  with  fuch  Suc- 
cefs  as  he  has  been  pleafed  to  give  me  abroad  :  And  I  douht 
■not  but  I  fhajl  yet  fee  greater  Things  there  as  well  as  at 
home.  I  never  had  fuch  a  Variety  of  Trials  and  Changes  of 
Life  lying  before  me  3";  at  this  Time.  Bat  I  throw  myfeif 
into  the  Hands  of  the  biefied  Jefas,  and  fliall  conclude  this 
further  Account  of  God's  Dealing  with  me,  with  a  Hymn 
compufed  by  my  dear  and  honoured  Friend  Mr.  JVcfiey. 


afFALMOXjTK,  Sy 

I. 


Jh  !  my  dear  Ma/ier  !  Can  it  he 
That  I  Jhould  lofe  by  fcrving  thee  ? 
In  Je eking  Souls  Jhould  loft  thy  oivfi. 
And  others  fave^  myfelf  undone  ? 


II. 


Tet  I  am  hft  (Jhoiddft^  thou  depart) 
Betray' d  by  this  deceitful  Hearty 
Deflroy'd^  if  il^^u  my  Labour  blefsy 
And  ruined  by  my  own  Succefs. 

III. 

Hide  me  !  if  thou  refufe  to  hide, 
I  fall  a  Sacrifice  to  Pride  : 
I  cannot  fhun  the  Fowler's  Snare, 
The  Fiery  Tejl  I  cannot  bear. 

IV. 

Helplefs,  to  thee  for  Aid  I  cry. 
Unable  to  refiji,  or  Jiy  : 
I  muji  not.   Lord,  the  Task  decline^ 
For  all  I  have,   and  am  is  thine. 

V. 

And  well  thou  know'Jl,  I  did  not  fseky 
Uncalled  of  God,  for  God  to  fpcak. 
The  dreadfid  Charge  I  fought  to  flee, 
"  Send  whom  thou  wilt,  but  fend  not  me. 


VL 


Long  did  my  Coward  Flefh  delay. 
And  Jiill  I  tremble  to  obey. 
Thy  Will  be  done,  I  faintly  cry. 
But  rather— fuffer  me  to  die. 

Ahf 


88         Mr.  Whitefi  eld'j  Journal. 
VII. 

jih  !  refctte  mc  froin  Earth  and  S'triy 
Fightings   without,   and  Fears  within^ 
More^  more  than  Hell  myfclf  I  dready 
Ah  !  cover  my  defencelefs  Head  ! 

VIII. 

Surely  thou  wilt.      Thou  canjl  not  fend. 
And  not  my  helplefs  Soul  defend^ 
Call  me  to  Jland  in  Danger  s  Hour^ 
And  not  fupport  me  with  thy  Potuer. 


IX. 

Lardy  I  believe  the  Promife  true. 
Behold,  1  always  am  with  you  ; 
Always  if  thou  with  me  remain^      , 
Helly  Earthy  and  Sin  Jhall  rage  in  vain. 


X. 


Give  me  Thine  All-fiifficient  Grace, 
Then  hurl  your  Darts  of  Rage  or  Praife^ 
Jcfus  and  me  ye  ne'er  jhall  part. 
For  God  is  greater  than  my  Heart. 


FINIS. 


It 


/ 


X: 


