DOCUMENT_ID: biola-hope-street-1985
TITLE (as printed): 70 Years on Hope Street: A History of the Church of the Open Door, 1915-1985
DATE: 1985
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/church-of-the-open-door-1-merged
EDITION: Institutional history of the Church of the Open Door and (in its founding chapters) the Bible Institute of Los Angeles; SECONDARY narrative, used here only where it quotes primary utterances (Lyman Stewart's cornerstone address; the Institute's stated purpose as quoted from its own record; The King's Business) verbatim, per the same convention used in this book's moody-bible-institute chapter for biography-embedded quotations.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive OCR, djvu.txt full-text layer)
TOTAL PAGES: unpaginated by this transcription; see inline markers where visible
WORD COUNT: 36268

= TRGIRE 


Seventy Years on Hope Streetis the story of one jj 
§) of America’s great churches. 


Starting with the vision of Union Oil Company 
founder Lyman Stewart, the book traces in text 
§ and photos the rich history of two of the leading 
Christian institutions west of the Mississippi. 


As you travel down Hope Street you'll meet 
men like ... 


“Daddy Horton,” who gave shoeleather to 
Lyman Stewart's dreams ... 


Reuben Archer Torrey, the world-renowned evan- 
gelist and educator who was the reason the 
great edifice on Hope Street came into being as 
it did... 


John McNeill, the loveable Scottish preacher who 
caused a stir amidst separationist elders .. . 


John MacInnis, the dean of the Bible Institute 
whose controversial book almost spelled doom 
for both organizations ... 


Louts Talbot, the native Australian who took two 
great American institutions from the grasp of 
Depression bankruptcy into a golden era of 
expanded ministry and prosperity ... 

J. Vernon McGee, the self-proclaimed “plowboy 
from Cleburme, Texas” who took Talbot's suc- 
cesses and added his own to them, making the 
Church of the Open Door one of the largest 
evangelical families in the world... 


and a host of other men and women of God who 
made their journey of faith down Hope Street. 


The evangelical movement in America 
weaves its history through the portals of the 
building on Hope Street, making this book the 
history not just that of concrete and steel, or 
even of one congregation. But rather this is the 
story of God at work in twentieth-century Amer- 
ica—in the lives of the people of God, some with 
glorious stories and wide reputations, and others 
with more modest credentials but equally large 
faith. 

Three score and ten years is a lifetime. And 
this is the lifetime of a citadel in the midst of a 
"| great city. As you read its pages and ponder its 
pictures, you will see yourself and your heritage 
... and you will thank God for it. 


a ae, 


INTRODUCTION 


reproduction, struggles, troubles, victories, decline, and even death. The 

Church of the Open Door was born in Los Angeles and by God's grace 
was given three score years and ten to live and work on Hope Street. During the 
time there it experienced a full life, including seasons of glorious success as well 
as periods of pain. 

Through it all God has used this congregation to win countless crowds to 
Christ, to teach thousands upon thousands the Word of God, to inspire multi- 
tudes, some of whom were just passing through, and to send who knows how 
many to serve the Lord in every comer of the world. Those instructed and 
inspired under its influence have in turn started other organizations, mainly 
missionary enterprises, to further spread the gospel and God's Word. 

Without a doubt, this is one of America’s great historic churches. Yet, its 
history reads like the chronicle of many ordinary Christians and congregations. 
s you read you might just see yourself as well as your church. 


A church is like a person: it can experience conception, birth, growth, 


G. Michael Cocoris, D.D. 
Los Angeles, California 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 


: ho rendered invaluable assistance in the Production 

oft Ba ear Howell Ray Killion, Colin McDougall, and Dale Wolery 

read and, in some cases, re-read the manuscript and offered many helpfi 

suggestions and additions. Henry Howell supplied a copy of the letters written 

aa McNeill. Ray Killion and Dale Wolery helped with the gathering of 

al y wrote the last chapter together. Sharon Beckwith, a 

1s be faithful and competent secretary through 

patiently typed | (and typed again) the 

y Howie, niece iam Evans, also spent 
d 


h ching the archives : 
myriad of necessary details. 


igele: 1924- reso 


SIRs 


oS 


DEDICATED 


lo the countless mM 


THE FOUNDATION 
1901-1915 


men merged to establish what ultimately became the Church of the 
Open Door. . 

The first was Lyman Stewart (1840-1923), an oil man from Pennsyl- 
vania who came to Los Angeles where he founded the Union Oil Company. 
Stewart was a wealthy, dedicated Christian layman. He was a faithful 
member of the Immanuel Presbyterian Church, president of the local 
chapter of the Y.M.C.A., one of the founders of the downtown Union 
Rescue Mission, and a supporter of missionaries. 

At the close of the Sraristi-American War in 1898, Stewart peas 
burdened for the Philippine Islands, which were surrendered to the oe 
States through the Treaty of Paris. “There were only two Bee e 
entire Philippines, so far as is known, at the time of the Spanish-, : erican 
War,” he later wrote. Stewart engaged A. B. Prichard, a Pres a 
Minister, to prepare and underscore Spanish Testaments which he then ha 


ike several streams coming together to form one mighty river, three 


Lyman Stewart, founder of the Union Oil 
Company of California, gives his energies 
and fortune to the advancement of 
evangelical causes, most notably The 
Fundamentals, the Bible Institute of Los 
Angeles, and the Church of the Open Door. 


IMION SL, COMPARE 


CALIFORNIA ¥ 


Stewart loses control of the Union Oil 
Company in 1914, due in no small part to 
the fact that he uses his money to further the 
Bible Institute rather than to control his 
company. 


ae: 


THE FOUNDATION 


Thomas Corwin Horton is affectionately 
called “Daddy” Horton. In 1906 Horton 
becomes assistant pastor at the Presbyterian 
church Lyman Stewart attends and the two 
men become close friends. Horton helps 
Stewart pursue his dream for a Bible school 
and is named first superintendent of Biola. 


Horton starts the Fishermen's Club to teach 
young men the Bible and to help them share 
their faith. This early photo shows them 
meeting prior to the founding of the Church 
: of the Open Door, which will be the 
Fishermen’ Club movements international 


headquarters, 


published and distributed extensively in the Philippines and in twen 


: . 
‘sh-speaking counties. ae 3 tC 
eet am founded an organization called “The Logs 


ee An 
Institute” for the purpose of teaching and publishing the Word fete 
invited Rev. Prichard to serve aS president and a simple cury, He 
developed. Classes began in 1901, but were discontinued in 1993 1 
Prichard accepted the pastorate of the Central Presbyterian Church tF en 
Angeles. The publishing department of the Institute was renamed Te 
i e of Los Angeles.” 

awa coming of T.C. Horton (1848-1932) as assistant pastor ofthe 
Immanuel Presbyterian Church, the Bible institute idea was Tevived, 
Horton was a businessman who became so involved in the Lord’s work tha 

he finally left the business world to enter the ministry. Even though hehad 
no formal education, he became the associate pastor under A.T, Pierson 
Bethany Church in Philadelphia and was later pastor of the First Cop. 
gregational Church in Dallas. 

Stewart first learned of Thomas Corwin Horton while attending the 
now famous Niagara Bible Conference in Niagara, New York in 1894. When 
asked by his pastor to find an assistant pastor for his church in Los Angeles, 
Stewart sought recommendations from several prominent ministers at the 
conference. Most suggested Horton, then pastor of the St. Paul (Min- 
nesota) Gospel Tabernacle. 

In January 1906, T:C. Horton became the assistant pastor of the 
Immanuel Presbyterian Church, which was located at the time at Tenth and 
Figueroa Streets. 

On Monday night, April 16, 1906, seven young men met with “Daddy 
Horton” (as he came to be called) at Immanuel Presbyterian for Bible study 
and instruction in soul-winning. The class grew until one hundred and fifty 
to three hundred high school and college age men were gathering 0 
Monday evenings. The members of the class selected the name “Fisher 
men’s Club” and adopted Matthew 4:19 as their motto: “And He sae! 
unto ae Follow Me and I will make you fishers of men.” bn 
Fate e astounding results of Rev. Horton's first Bible class provoked 
o further ambitions, An early article in The Kings Business reported 


So active and successful was the fisherman’s work that they ran 
became the inspiration of their leader in his first determination to es 
dominant religious institution to educate and equip workers 0” 4 
scale. The result has been nothing short of miraculous. 


In the fall of 1907, a similar Mrs. Hott 
i , class was organized by ; 
(“Mother Horton”) for young women. It was called the “Lyceu™ Club 
which connoted teaching. te 
Rey. Horton also conducted a training class for Sunday School a 


ers. These classes wen conclu 
: e tre . Horton a 
‘Why not have mendously successful. Hi elst 


: a school that would train believers in personal &” 
and Bible study?” He began to share his dream with Stewatt. 


\ 


i 


1901-1915 


Although the two had widely different backgrounds and were 
“poticeably diametrical” in temperament, Stewart and Horton became fast 
friends, talking frequently about evangelism and the future of the Lord's 
work around the world. Stewart favored investing in the type of ministry 
that would readily evangelize the lost instead of pouring the Lord’s money 
into “brick and mortar.” Horton was concerned about the shortage of 
people trained to lead others to Christ. He dreamed of a Bible training 
school. 

Inthe summer of 1907 Horton conducted a series of evangelistic tent 
meetings financed by Stewart. That experience confirmed the need of a 
Bible training institution in the minds of both men for, in the words of 
Horton, the greatest drawback was “the fact that our leaders are not 
qualified by practical equipment.” Furthermore, both were concerned 
about the liberal tenets of modernism which were continuing to creep into 
the churches. 

So that summer they sought the advice of Dr. R.A. Torrey, the 
foremost authority on Bible schools and an old friend of Horton from the 
days when they were both in the Minneapolis area. Torrey was dean of 
Moody Bible Institute and a world-renowned evangelist. 

Dr. Torrey thought that Los Angeles was “the logical place on the 
coast’ for a Bible institute and agreed to be identified with the school in an 
advisory capacity. He further agreed to conduct a three-month evangelistic 
campaign beginning in January of 1908. 

With Torrey’s endorsement, Horton made every effort to launch a 
local Bible institute in the fall of 1907. A number of complications forced a 
delay, including the cancellation of the scheduled Torrey campaign. The 
large building to be used for the meeting was condemned and no other 
Suitable place could be found. 

The Bible Institute of Los Angeles was formally founded on February 
25, 1908. Lyman Stewart was president, A.B. Prichard vice president, 
TC. Horton superintendent, and Dr. W.E. Blackstone, a former Meth- 
odist pastor and author of the popular Jesus Is Coming, servedas dean. The 
Stated purpose was to “train accredited men and women, free of cost, in the 
knowledge and use of the Bible.” The Institute was to be “interde- 
nominational” and have the Bible as its “chief textbook.” 

On March 10, 1908, the first classes were held downtown at 260-264 
South Main Street on the second floor above a pool hall. The first student 
body, consisting of about thirty-five students, was recruited from the 
Fishermen’s and Lyceum Clubs, and from the Sunday School teachers 
training class which Horton was teaching. Classes convened in the after- 
hoons between 2:00 and 4:00 pM. In addition to this, special meetings were 

Idin the evenings, including the popular Friday Night Bible Class. It didn’t 
take long for the Institute to be affectionately called “Biola for short. 

Soon the Main Street location could not contain the rapidly expanding 
Student body. The Institute eventually relocated to the Temple Auditonum 


“Mother’ Horton shares Daddy’ zeal for 
helping young people and starts the Lyceum 
Club for women in the fall of 1907. 


Dr. Torrey is first and always the evangelist. 
Here his horse-drawn wagons of the Moody 
Bible Institute of Chicago take the gospel to 
the people of that great city. 


Reuben Archer Torrey is a world-renowned 
evangelist who has become the stylist of the 
Bible institute method of education. He 
crafts the curriculum at Moody Bible 
Institute before moving west to serve as dean 
of the newly-formed Bible Institute of 

Los Angeles. 


el es, 


The third chapel at Yale University is built 
while Torrey is a student. While in chapel he 
struggles with the truth of the Christian faith 
and decides to go to Europe for further 

biblical studies. 


oN 


‘ding at the corner of Fifth and Olive Streets. Meanwhile, t),.; 
Sr nevEnE Institute began formulating plans for the construe 
wi ey 
eee third force, and deciding factor, in the formation of the Ch 
the Open Door was the coming of Dr. Reuben Archer Torrey (ei q 

Torrey, the son of a banker, was born in New Jersey on ie 2) 
1856. He entered Yale College at age 15 intending to become an ator. 
After three years of worldly involvement, he trusted Christ ay his Se 
and decided to enter the munistry. In 1875, he gr aduated with honors at 
that fall entered the Yale Divinity School where he distinguished hinsety 
winning the Hebrew Award. } 

In Torrey’s senior year, D.L. Moody, the great evangelist, Spoke y 
chapel. Moody, unimpressed with Torrey’s scholarly achievement, advises 
him: “Young man, you'd better get to work for the Lord.” Swallowing ts 
pride, Torrey asked Moody to teach him how to lead someone to Chiy 
After giving Torrey and a few of his fellow students several verses 
Scripture, Moody charged, “Now gentlemen, go at it.” Torrey did, leading 
to Christ a young lady whom he used to meet in the ballroom. Tix 
experience transformed his attitude toward the ministry. 

Torrey’ conversion did not settle all his doubts, however. As te 
pursued theological studies at Yale Divinity School, Torrey found that The 
professors ... were all orthodox, but I was not.” 

He was especially troubled by the Bible’s account of the resurrection 
of Christ. Could he really believe it? Torrey studied the evidence careful, 
and found it overwhelming. There was no doubt that Christ had risen fron 
the dead. “That conclusion,” he recalled, “carried everything withit that 
was essential.” 

After graduation from seminary, Torrey was ordained by the Con 
gregational Church and served as pastor of a Congregational churchin Om 
where he met his wife. 

Torrey then attended graduate school in Germany. He studied unt 
Franz Delitzsch, the leading authority on Old Testament critics es 
Hebrew in Germany and co-author of the famous Keil & Delilzsch Bs 
tary on the Old Testament. Theodore Zahn, one of the foremost authon 
gui Nev Tanda mei 

; 0 one of his professors. During his stud" 

Torrey settled the question of whether the Bible was the DSF i 
inerrant Word of God. He knew he could trust it, and he never "i 
again. For financial reasons Torrey was unable to finish his grad il 
Germany. Years later Wheaton College awarded him the Doctor ® 
degree June 20, 1907). the OF” 
eeauen Europe he went to Minneapolis where he pastor ate 
hurch and organized the People’s Church (Congres ork 

Same time he became superintendent of the city mission- This ber of UY 
him further seasoning in the ministry and showed him the P° 


- 
- 


1901-1915 


gospel to transform lives. 

Such a background produced a man who could handle himself and the 
Bible well, whether on skid row or among theological scholars. Said one 
biographer, “He could kneel beside a drunk in a mission or explain the 
gospel at an elegant dinner table. 

When Moody was searching for a superintendent for his proposed 
Bible Institute in Chicago, he was advised to secure Torrey, which he did. 
Torrey designed the curriculum for the new Bible Institute which became 
the pattem for many all over the world. In Chicago, Torrey authored 
several books and also pastored the Chicago Avenue Church (later 
renamed the Moody Memorial Church), which Moody had established in 
1864, 


.,, Mthe summer of 1911, Torrey was invited to be the new dean of the 
Bible Institute of Los Angeles. Torrey’s biographer, Roger Martin, states, 


His acceptance, however, included two stipulations. First, he stated that a 
church should be organized to function in much the same capacity as the 
Moody Memorial Church was to the Moody Bible Institute. Second, and 
ae Important, the auditorium of the Institute and church should be able to 

mmodate at least 3,500 le for evangelistic services. 
€ reasons for these anions were aptly stated by his son Reuben. 
© considered this essential for the more adequate training of the stu- 
dents a8 a practical laboratory, and also it would enable him to continue the 
elistic preaching mission to which he believed God had called him. It 
Would also make possible a strong evangelical witness in the heart of Los 


The Chicago Avenue Church is a citadel tn 
the city in 1876. Torrey becomes its pastor in 
1893. In 1929 the church will build a new 
sanctuary further north in the city under 
PW. Philpotts pastorate and it will be 
called Moody Memorial Church. 


Torrey travels around the world in 
evangelistic crusades like this one which is 
held in Birmingham, England in January 
1904. Over 7,700 will profess conversion 
during the month. Torrey is there at the 
invitation of the Cadbury family, who are 
noteworthy chocolatiers and Christian 
philanthropists. 


BOW Tw STUDY Tm ELE 


Torrey authors many books, some of which 
are still in print today. This volume, along. 
with his famous What the Bible Teaches, 

a text on doctrine, demonstrates his passion 
for The Book. 


d serve as a platform from which conseryatj 

ae ‘he world could be heard. ALIVE leader ‘ 

He gained a most enthusiastic reception on the part of the u 
and student body. The King’s Business, official organ of the sc tute fag 
The coming of Dr. Torrey to our Bible Institute marks 4 tes Say 
progress of our work. ... When we felt the need and Commences. tt 
for a dean, we asked of the Lord the best man available {op top, 
important position, but we had not thought the Lord woulg aa a 
biggest as well as the best. Cus 

Dr. James M. Gray, dean of Moody Bible Institute, felt that the < 
Torrey to Los Angeles was “one of the most important events tha ‘ 
occurred for a long while in the history of the church in this : 
Because of already scheduled evangelistic meetings, Torrey was not sky 
assume the reins of the Institute until 1912. 

Inthe meantime, Lyman Stewart and the Institute directors contin, 
their search for a permanent site for the school. Wishing to maintain » 
urban location, Stewart purchased two lots (an 80’ x 166" parcel) atthe 
corner of Eighth and Los Angeles Streets on July 28, 1911. The price a 
$78,000. Stewart wrote his brother Milton: 


Torrey’s decision to come to Los Angeles is It will always be near the center of the city, from which all car lines radate 
later hailed by the eminent James M. Gray and it will only be a couple of blocks from the 6th St. Suburban Station sothat 
as “one of the most important events .. . n people in the suburban towns can attend the evening classes without 


the history of the church in this country.” annoyance and expense of an extra carfare. 
An additional 70’ x 116’ lot adjoining the property was secured anit 
purchase of a third parcel was considered. : 
In September, Stewart traveled to Chicago to tour the acclamet 
Moody Bible Institute for ideas in constructing the best possible fat 
What he saw disturbed him. Writing Horton he said: 


My hasty view of the Moody Bible Institute plans has placed 2 
question marks in my mind. With the limited amount of spa ee 
command at Eighth and Los Angeles, are we warranted in making the 


ateat necessary without assurance of adequate facilites fo 


: ; He went on to s i ideal, eval 
The Bible Institute building will be erec ay that although he felt the location was IC™ ss 
not far from the squane ukth wat enced they had all three lots on Los Angeles Street “we would stil bave 


sdag Sake Be A ae ans than the Moody Institute, while we have an empire t0 PON cer 
water and electrical supplies o meet site uilding plans were therefore postponed and the search for 4 
is needs, Sit begun. On September 26, 1911, Horton wrote Stewart : 
We have founda lot 240’ x 166 6’ onthe east side of Hope St. whic aoe 
cent ae $180,000. It contains 39,990 square feet — 7,000 more ie Ld 
mae S. There is quite a diversity of opinion as to the 
asons I am still led to favor the 8th St. site. 


ee aie ® 
Hopes ey of opinion” stemmed from the fact that tit 
€t was very much removed from the city center ands 


\\ 


$I TSE OTS Lea 


1901-1915 


sign of metropolitan development. Nevertheless, Stewart believed they 


had been providentially led to the Hope Street location and so it was 
purchased. 


At one point during this time Stewart asked Torrey to come to a 1,500- 
seat basement auditorium. The suggestion did not appeal to Torrey at all; 
he responded: “If you begin on the 1,500 basis, the community will size you 


up as a 1,500-size man, and this, humanly speaking, will make it more 
difficult later on to gather larger crowds.” 


Torrey brings the prayer of dedication as 
ground ts broken on June 12, 1912 for the 
Institute and Church. 


Torrey, Horton, with newspaper captured by 
his coat pocket, and Stewart are joined by a 
small group of visionaries as they sing “On 
Christ the solid Rock I stand, all other 
ground ts sinking sand” at the close of 
simple ground-breaking ceremonies. 


THE FOUNDATION 


Bp / 


The ground-breaking ceremony onJune 12, 1912 was simple andy: 
After shercngine of a few hymns the small assembly was aresson 
Superintendent Horton. He expressed the intent of the leadership ie 
the proposed building a “rallying center for the magnifying of the Word : 
God.” President Stewart manned the shovel, proclaiming: 

of the Bible Institute I now take possession of this 

Ra arduiuse by the act of turning this spadeful of earth. May pa for 

prayers be that every detail of the construction of this building 

plished in the fear of the Lord and for His Glory. 


Torrey prayed a dedicatory prayer and the service was concluded with 
' 
- 


be accom. 


the singing of “The Solid Rock.” : : 

The building was designed in the Italian style by architects Walker and 
Vawter. Headlines in a July 1912 issue of the Los Angeles Times announced 
The new building is built in the Italian style “Magnificent Fireproof Edifice Projected by the Los Angeles Bible Institute 

with graceful arches and porticos, and for South Hope Street.” 

ai detieeticted ented The foundation was laid on solid granite. Two thirteen-story domito- 
"ties, the legal height limit at the time, were to be erected on either side ofa 
massive auditorium. The building was made of concrete strongly reinforced 
with steel beams and girders from 8" to 2’ thick. Pillars extended froma 
sub-basement to the top floors. 

The cornerstone was set during a Saturday afternoon ceremony 
on May 31, 1913. Inscribed in a polished granite stone was a quote from 
Rey. 1:5: 


Dedicated unto Him who loved us and washed us from our sins in His 
own blood. 


Lyman Stewart brings a masterful address 
at the laying of the cornerstone on May 31, 
1913. This event draws a crowd far in 
excess of the humble group gathered for the 
ground breaking. 


1901-1915 


Lyman Stewart (in fedora), R.A. Torrey 
(reading Bible), and T.C. Horton all take 
part in setting the cornerstone in place. Note 
the trowel, mortar, and ladies’ hats! 


THE FOUNDATION 


Seem 


1901-1915 


Behind the cornerstone a copper time capsule was deposited con- 
taining a Scofield Bible; copies of The Kings Business; What the Bible 
Teaches by R.A. Torrey; the Bible Institute Statement of Doctrine, catalog, 
and curriculars; a roster of Institute students, faculty members, and 
employees; a list of the architects and construction superintendents as well 
as the city newspapers of May 31, 1913. 

Also contained within the capsule was a copy of the dedicatory 
address delivered by Lyman Stewart on the occasion. 

After Horton placed the copper box inside the cornerstone, President 
Stewart spoke. Among other things he said, 

It should also be understood that these buildings are not to be amonument 
to any man, nor to any set of men, but are to forever stand solely for the 
promulgation of the eternal truths of God's Holy Word. Over its portals, and 
running across the front of this central building, will stand the inspired 
declaration, “Forever, O Lord, Thy Word is settled in heaven. wv 


_ Inmid-June of 1913, construction on the building came to a standstill 
due to the lack of funds. Contrary to popular opinion, Lyman Stewart was 
Not the sole financier of the project. Contributions had to be secured before 
the work could continue. As a matter of fact, n order to complete the 
buildings the Institute floated a bond issue. The payment ofthis debt was to 
a struggle for years to come. : ; 

Exactly one year from the day the comerstone was laid, a tragic 
cident occurred. On Monday, May 31, 1914, a construction worker fell 
1 the seventh floor and was killed. The following Thursday 400 workers 
onthe floor of the unfinished auditorium for a memorial service. In 
ise to a “clear, clean-cut gospel message,” 70 men raised their hands 
ating they were placing their faith in Christ. 


THE FOUNDATION 


aa; 


Construction workers pause daily for 
devotions. 


The men who built the Institute and Church 
on Hope Street are proud of their work. 
They will haul concrete up thirteen stories in 
wheelbarrows, but the edifice they are 
constructing will be one of the most 
handsome buildings in turn-of-the-century 
Los Angeles. 


1901-1915 


—— 
Gidasasest 


You are a brave soul if you traverse the 
suspension bridge between the south tower 
and the construction elevator. 


The auditorium is one of the greatest halls on 
the West Coast, spanning eight stories from 
main floor to skylight ceilings. 


a « I a i sa 8 


THE FOUNDATION 


fluo 
r ret | ne 
5 ihe 


er wer ea ve 
‘i. ’ 
Seis ok rs 


1901-1915 


reer narra mo 


eevee ore prs carl owes ori 


A worker will fall to his death from these 
lofty beams; seventy will trust Christ at the 
memonial service which follows. 


Without Torrey’ vision and worldwide 
reputation for drawing large audiences, the 
Church on Hope Street would not loom as 
large as it does. Torrey presses for, and gets 
a4,000+ seat auditorium (photos courtesy 
Historical Collections, Security Pacific 
National Bank). 


THE FOUNDATION 


The great auditorium on Hope Street is 
dedicated by Dr. WB. Riley of Minneapolis, 
a leader in Fundamentalism and 

dynamic speaker. 


The impressive edifice, considered a “skyscraper,” fet 
1914. The two dormitory towers provided 682 rooms, From thef “UDied 
auditorium to the ceiling was eight stories. The auditorium C onsisen 
balconies holding a total of 4,064 theater-type Seats. ed 

Every “modern” convenience was installed, including elevat 
facility even had its own water supply. The building was equipped wa 
boilers which generated steam, electricity, and hot water — hot ul 
the Institute, but also for ten adjacent hotels, restaurants, tome 
offices. The structure was beautifully appointed with prism glass sid : 

a skylight illuminated the entire ceiling of the huge auditorium; andr 
gardens were adjacent to the ninth floor library. The largest set of chi 

on the Pacific Coast, eleven Meneely bells, were suspended atop the nor 
dormitory tower. The smallest of the eleven bells weighed 190 Pounds, the 
largest weighed two tons. 

On April 4, 1915, the auditorium was dedicated. The featured Speaker 
was Dr. W.B. Riley, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Minneapolis, 

The idea of a large church to occupy the Bible Institute auditorium hat 
been conceived. The building had been built, but the church had Not yet 
been “born.” 


of thy 


1901-1915 


As the auditorium is dedicated the plaster ts 
not yet fully cured. The seats are not 
installed in parts of the balconies, the front 
of the auditorium ts not yet painted, and a 
pipe organ is still years away. But April 4, 
1915 ts a grand day indeed. 


Bi 5 


THE FOUNDATION 


Lectin e 
re Room . 
2 Sie h.O.LR, 


1901-1915 


Socio) 


Hal| — B.t.oct-Re_ 


The Foyer~ BISLN. 


Later generations will call the rooms on 
page 18 the Lower Auditorium or Talbot 
Chapel. In the beginning they were large 
open lecture halls with overhead doors 
which allowed even further expansion. 


The eighth floor of the church is the social 
hall for Biola students. 


The fourth floor foyer also serves as a 
meeting room, and will later become the 
offices of the church. 


A typical student room has every modern 
convenience plus privacy — excepting the 
communal restrooms down the hall. 


19 


THE FOL JINDATION 


Al 


With 4,064 theater-type seats, the new 
auditorium is one of the finest halls in the 
city, a showcase for evangelical Christianity 
in the fastest-growing city west of the 

) 


=] aN cag : : 2 
—__usisaram Church OF The Oren Door- By 
| SS ee —— 


> 
ee ie 


fate (one S218 ieee e818 amreseenrie 


YEARS OF FORMATION 


1915-1924 


Torrey. It was one of his requirements for coming to Los Angeles! 

From his experience in Chicago with Moody Bible Institute and the 
Chicago Avenue Church (later called the Moody Memorial Church), Torrey 
understood the impact a church-school combination could have. Thus 
before agreeing to come as the first dean of the Institute, Torrey stipulated 
that there must be a church comparable to the one in Chicago. 

The Church was bor on September 3, 1915. Eighty-six men and 
women from all over greater Los Angeles gathered to sign, as charter 
members, the constitution and bylaws of the new Church (see Appendix 
V). Dr. Torrey was unanimously selected as pastor; Horton as assistant 
pastor. In less than four years the membership reached 673 and the 
attendance at the Sunday morning and Sunday evening services averaged 
between fourteen and sixteen hundred. 

The church was to be strictly interdenominational with no hint of 
competition with the established denominations. Its purpose was to reach 
the lost of Los Angeles, which was reflected in its name. In a letter to 
Lyman Stewart dated July 2, 1915, Torrey said the name was based on two 
passages of Scripture: John 10:9 and Revelation 3:8, 

The first passage setting forth the truth that the whole object of the 
church is to “present Christ to men as an open door for all that will enter.” 

The second passage setting forth the truth that “Jesus Christ has set before 

our church an open door for service in reaching out after the unchurched of 

Los Angeles.” 


As pastor, Dr. Torrey emphasized evangelism, missions, and the 
spiritual life. There was not a Sunday in his years as pastor from 1915 to 


1924 when someone was not converted. : 
There was almost one exception. One rainy Sunday night Dr. Torrey 


T? Church of the Open Door was conceived in the mind of R.A. 


On September 3, 1915 the eighty-six 
signatories of the constitution and bylaws 
start the Church of the Open Door. 


YEARS OF FORMATION 


Torrey, who lives in South Pasadena, enjoys 
an afternoon at Brookside Park. As is his 
custom, he dresses formally. At home he 
also enjoys the fresh air of southern 
California, electing to sleep outside in a tent 
on most evenings. 


3 Gordon Hook 
chimes will be a 
years, It require: 


ers playing of the roo} 
daily event for ee 
’S physical strength beyond 
Out of his slight build, but 
lore than equal to the task. 


what one expects 
Hooker is m 


— 


extended an invitation, but no one res 
a ne is the first Sunday night in the Came ai hey ‘ 
that we have failed to see anyone come to Christ,” a aon Ped, 
walked down the aisle to be saved. Then several others folloyq) 2 

In 1916, seven of the eighty-six charter members departeq 4 
missionaries in Africa and Asia. Four entered home missions, : ee 
foreshadowing of things to come. Not only did the first Pastor em a; 
missions and eleven of the charter members enter missionary service 
throughout its seventy years on Hope Street missions was a maj P 
tinctive of the church. ‘ 

Beyond the fact that the church was formally established, the Tore 
years were years of formation. During those nine years other aspects ‘ 
the ministry came into being and practices began which became tratitin: 
Almost every year a new facet was added. 

The manually-operated Meneely chimes installed atop the toch 
tower were dedicated July 4, 1915, and were first played by Mrs. TC 
Horton. For more than fifty years these chimes rang out gospel hymnsoe 
downtown Los Angeles. 

On December 31, 1926, Dr. Gordon Hooker took over the task! 
playing the bells. For the next thirty-four years he traveled to the roofalte 
thirteenth story three times daily and twice on Sunday to ring the bels 
During those years there were reports of people tracing the musictoll 


church and there finding Christ. At least three suicides were averted 
because of the music. 


ZA 


1915-1924 


Ly 


The Fishermen's Club Room (top) and the 
Lyceum Club Room for women (bottom) 
rival the best facilities of the day for comfort, 
aesthetics, and congeniality. 


Daddy and Mother Horton are the beloved 
mentors of a generation of Biola students, 
church members, and Fishermen's Club 
members like these gentlemen. The three 
organizations are chartered separately so 
payments often travel between the groups for 
facilities used and services rendered. 


YEAROM + 


The Trowbridge family (left) arrives from 
Chicago in 1916 to begin ministry at the 
Institute and Church. Trowbridge (center) 

is coming from a similar position at the 
Moody Bible Institute of Chicago. Charles 
E. Fuller (right) trusts Christ at the Church 
of the Open Door; later he will be the most 
widely heard radio evangelist in America. 


The Christian Endeavor Society, a national organization found. 
1881 by Francis E. Clark, sponsored local chapters at the church ‘eae 
1915. The church hosted the National C.E. Conferences on a rumba 
occasions. As late as 1984, the Los Angeles County Christian Enizar! 
Union held a rally at the Church of the Open Door. | 

What later came to be knownas the Jewish Department of the Chat] 
of the Open Door had its inception in 1915. The first meetings were bait! 
the Fishermen's Club room and were conducted by Dr. James A. Vaus, itt} 
was director until 1925. 

At the beginning of the fall term in 1916, Professor J.B. Towing 
came as head of the music department of the Institute and as directatt 
music for the Church of the Open Door. He had been a teacher at Now 


Bible Institute for fourteen years. Trowbridge set a high standard forms | 


excellence which characterized the church for decades. 

__ Dr. Torrey desired to indoctrinate his congregation in t 
trinal truths of Scripture. The largest Sunday crowds which flock ye 
him came in 1917 when he preached a series of fifteen messages et 
Fundamental Doctrines of the Christian Faith.” These se™2" . 
preached over the radio, which was a new endeavor for Torrey: est 
also later published in a book. Bible teaching, broadcasting. a : 
were all established early as traditions of the Church of the pe” rt | 

InJuly of 1917, under the preaching of Paul Rader at the i ee 
n Door, a young man named Charles Fuller was convert®" 
enrolled in the Bible Institute. 


Years after, Fuller said, 


T have a very warm : 
4 spot in my heart for the Ch 
use it was there, under the preaching of Paul Rader.” 


at 


S Converted, giving my life in fulltime service for the Lot ol 


S os ch a ladle’ |. 
on after 1917 Miss Jessie Tritt began to teach oe Clas 


Sch : 
Chool class which later was named the Auditorium 


fi 
, 


he basic 


oft 


we 
arch of te OF 


1915-1924 


Anna L. Dennis, started to teach the Mothers’ Class originally organized 
and taught by Miss Berta Dyer. She continued to teach this class until 1960! 


InSeptember of 1918, the China Inland Mission held a farewell service 
at the church for fourteen former Bible Institute students going to China as 
missionaries. Ralph Scoville was one of them. He and his wife later 
retumed to serve on the pastoral staff primarily for visitation. Scoville 
Lounge was named for this dedicated couple. 


In 1919 a pipe organ was installed in the acoustically perfect 
auditorium. Built in 1904 by the Los Angeles Art Organ Company, it was 
originally installed in Christ's Episcopal Church located on the southwest 
comer of Twelfth and Flower Streets. Because of financial difficulties, the 
Episcopal Church was dissolved and the building was later purchased by the 
Trinity Methodist Church (Dr. Bob Schuler pastored this famous church). 
The Church of the Open Door purchased the 2,519-pipe organ as a gift to 
Biola. It was said to be one of the finest instruments in the city. There was 

_ ven an echo organ installed in the balcony. 


_ Onthe evening of March 11, 1919, an audience of 3,500 listened to a 
‘Concert performed by the French organist, Joseph Bonnet, known as the 
an of organists. 


eginning of the morning 


umn hich 
A -burnt remony was conducted w! 
athe paying in il of 500, debt incurred during the 


the paying in full of the $500,000 


Anna Dennis (left) begins teaching the 
Mothers’ Class in 1926, and she will still be 
teaching it thirty-four years later when Mr. 
and Mrs. Ralph Scoville (center) have 
returned from China where these Biola 
grads serve as missionaries. W. Cameron 
Townsend (night), another C.0.D. 
missionary, sells Bibles in Latin America, 
joins the Church in 1922, and along with 
fellow C.O.D. member William G. Nyman, 
founds Wycliffe Bible Translators. It 
becomes the largest independent missions 
organization in the world under “Uncle 
Cams” leadership. 


YEARS OF FORMATION 


construction of the building. The King’s Business describes the 


Lewis Sperry Chafer (top) and A.B. 
Winchester (bottom) speak at the Church as 
an important stop on the informal Bible 
conference circuit. At the time they are 
making plans for a new school which they 
will start n 1924: Dallas Theological 
Seminary. 


26 


While the treasurer, Mr. J.M. Irvine, held the docum, “rigs 
fact that the bonded indebtedness of the Bible Institute on iin 
been fully paid, the president, Mr. Lyman Stewart stacks Aga ' 
presence of nearly three thousand persons, the paper as tch ang 


The article went on to say, 


__.To Mr. Lyman Stewart, his brother Milton Stewart an 
people scattered throughout this and other lands, whom the tee 
make this event possible, we give unstinted thanks and inten 


prayer in their behalf. 


Thus, as the roaring twenties dawned, the building owned by ihe 
Institute was firmly established as debt-free. 

William Cameron Townsend, a student at Occidental College, aD. 
byterian school in Los Angeles, was preparing for the ministry When 
heard that the Bible House of Los Angeles (founded by Lyman Steyey 
wanted Bible salesmen for South Amenica. The year was 1917, 
taken Spanish at Compton High School andin college, Townsend decide 
apply with the idea of returning after a year to finish college. He wenttt 
South America and later to Mexico. a 

On February 5, 1922, Townsend joined the Church of the Open Dor, 
described in his biography as “a strong Bible-teaching church wathanact 
interest in missions.” He remained a member and supported missia 
the church until he went to be with the Lord on Apnil 23, 1982. Asa 
of fact, the church helped finance his first trip to Mexico. 

“Uncle Cam,” as he was affectionately called, founded the Wit 
Bible Translators which has published portions of Scripture in ovet lil! 
languages. , 

In 1922, the World Fundamentalist Conference met at the Cu 
the Open Door. Dr. W. B. Riley was moderator. Speakers included * 
White, Dr. Bob Schuler, Dr. R.A. Torrey, Dr. Robert Dick Wise 
J, Frank Norris, Dr, Lewis Sperry Chafer, and Dr. A. B. Winches 

Also in 1922 Radio KTBI, the official station of the Bible Insti” 
Los Angeles, went on the air. ished Te 

During the Torrey years, another tradition was or od vil } 
school and church benefited from the ministry of Cee ae ee 
Speakers — a tradition which spans the seventy year's 0” aia B® 
Well-known visiting speakers of the Torrey era includ rele 
A.C. Dixon, Mel Trotter, William P. Nicholson, and A.C: Gae wast 

On September 28, 1923 Lyman Stewart passed away: He 
three. The King’s Business reported: 


ther it 
On Friday, September 28, 1923, a man pillowed his head ie ree 
of Jesus and went to sleep — but Heaven was enti ed byt Boone! 
ieee it whose lip and life bore constant testimony 
ee , unflinching faith in the Word of God. 


Then, after almost nine years as pastor, Dr. Torrey, now sixty-eight 
years old, resigned. On June 22, 1924, Dr. Torrey preached his farewell 
messages. His morning message was entitled, “Farewell Message to a 
Dearly-Loved Church — How to Study the Bible.” In the evening he spoke 
on “Goodbye to the People of Los Angeles — How to Get Joy Unspeakable 
and Full of Glory.” 

The church bulletin that day said, 


The Church of the Open Door owes its existence and its fruitful life largely 
to your faithful service as pastor. From a handful to many hundreds you had 
the joy of seeing its development. Through your faithful ministry thousands 
have heard the gospel, and hundreds have been brought to knowledge of and 
faith in Christ. We shall miss you but we shall remember you. 


In tribute to Dr. Torrey The King’s Business said, 


The Church of the Open Door, from its inception, took the position that it 
would not solicit people to unite with it, and thus avoided the criticism of 
proselyting. The students attending the Institute were, as far as possible, 
assigned to churches of their own denominations for Sunday services. 


The Church of the Open Door has now a membership of fifteen hundred aa 
and is definitely evangelistic. Its services have been held in the Institute Lyman Stewart dies in 1923; R.A. Torrey 


F 7 iati “4 , nd dean in 
Buildings, without rental, and the two organizations — the Institute and the (CDN TY) EE OPAL 
Church — have worked together harmoniously in service for the Lord. IRE SIG SE aA HSS id 


pastor of the Church and superintendent of 
Torrey left Los Angeles to return to an international itinerate ministry. Ge eee Peepers ae bade 
He passed away in his sleep four years later on October 26, 1928. will soon set in. 
The foundation had been laid. The church was now fully formed. It had 
been abundantly fruitful. Surely there was more success ahead. That was 
to come, but not without struggle and pain first. 


(CHURCH OF THE OPEN DOOR NOTICES 
Sumday. Jume 22 1924 


8 Goodbye to 
& Dr. Torrey 


From = handial 
many hundreds 


REV_R A TORREY, D. D 


Pascor of the Church of the Open Door 


TIN tps 


i 
ul 


MAST IAA 1 some ne Ltt ob HH WENN SEMI: 


Fergie 

i 
ni 
” Sehte 


CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR SOCIETIES 


i 
apa 


Sor ete, 
DES cect pcm ge ty tn eee sm 


oan a lla 


, = 
ae : f 
, * , * 4 
x Ye se er a 
Me Ty . & tei 


* 
. 


8) ff are 


ye A 


- 


Ji 


»? —EE -_ 
3 THR Sanne sss se i = 


aa fy te de te de te ~ ve 
ey NAAANAAA EVENS 1 = 
\ 


i | 


et m1 4 Bun inf Trmt rit nm 
Ey rey 


a A 7 00 


——-~ 


YEARS OFFORMATION 191 sy, OW 


iia 


Torrey and Charles Alexander, musician 

and student of Torreys at Moody Bible 
Institute, travel the world in evangelistic 
meetings. Torreys journey ends in 1928. 


Lyman Stewart (1840-1923) gave his 
Jortunes and his energies to the Spreading of 
the Truth of God. His Saith is legend. 


ON OF STRUGGLE 


1924-1931 


s a young man struggles after breakin 3 SiS oe 
parents, so the Church entered a ot of ee a Feats 
departure of its founders. e8e after the 

1n 1925, the year the Los Angeles public libr. i 
Biola building, “Daddy” Horton retired as eee eee i . 
the Open Door and superintendent of the Institute. He was canine 
The three human forces used to form the Bible Institute and later the 
church were all removed from the scene within three years : 

Also in 1925, Dr. Vaus resigned as director of the Jewish work. Dr. 
David L. Cooper became head and remained so until 1928. a 

After Torrey’s resignation, the church was without a pastor for two- 
and-a half years. That’s a time of pressure for any congregation. 

Torreys successor as pastor was Rev. John McNeill (1854-1933). 
McNeill was born in Scotland on July 7, 1854. He was educated at Edin- 
burgh University and Glasgow Theological Seminary. This powerful 
pulpiteer then pastored churches in Scotland and London. 

During a visit to America after the death of his wife, McNeill was 
invited to speak at the Presbyterian College of Montreal, where he was 
informed that they would like to honor him with a Doctor of Divinity degree. 
In reply he said, 

I was not a distinguished student, and am not a theologian, but only a 
preacher whom the accident of reporting has made an author. And, besides, 
my dear Principal, the offering of such a weighty stamp and seal comes too 
early, even were my record marked by the attainments it lacks. 


The Scotsman John McNeill is pastor when 
the city of Los Angeles proudly completes 
her new public library (photo courtesy 
Historical Collections, Security Pacific 
National Bank). It is 1925. 


A SEASON OF STRUGGLE 


Mrs. McNeill’ health is of constant concern 


to her husband. They will return to 
England in 1928 because Of it. 


He had other offers, but never accepted a D.D., al ough 
“ ” nh . 
pre often referred to as “Dr.” He was content to Merely Wear Ang : 
co At the urging of D.L. Moody, McNeill resigned his London 
to enter evangelism and consequently preached alll over the = 

During one of his tours, an Australian newspaper de : 
“Robert Burns converted and turned preacher.” He Preached ts al 
crowds with great results. Bee 

Seven years after the death of his wife, McNeill Married again 
after sixteen years on the road, he succeeded Dr. EB. Meyeras the Ta 
of Christ Church in London. He later pastored churches in Torontg 
Denver. During World War I he labored among the British troops, = 

After the war he returned to the pastorate, serving churches i 
Birmingham, Alabama, New York, and the Tenth Presbyterian Churchin 
Philadelphia. 

Mr. McNeill, who considered himself essentially an evangelist, Was 
not comfortable keeping a full church full. So in 1924, when he Was invited 
to teach at Biola and fill the vacant pulpit of the Church of the Open Door, he 
gladly accepted. 

Before his three-month temporary pulpit supply had expired, it ws 
felt he was the man to be the next pastor. He was officially called bya 
unanimous vote of the congregation on December 22, 1926. 

During his tenure as pastor, at least two significant occurrences took 
Place: the church was incorporated on January 1, 1927, and also in 192/, 
Mrs. McNeill organized the Women’s Missionary Society. In 1928, McNeil 
conducted evangelistic campaigns in Denver, Colorado; Cedar Falls, lova 
and New York City. When he was away, such men as Donald Gry 
Barnhouse filled the pulpit. 

Also in 1928, an internal dispute arose. A fellow Scotsman, Dt 
Freeman of the Pasadena Presbyterian Church, invited McNeil to reat 

~ Freeman was considered a Modernist. Some of the elders felts e 
that McNeill should have consulted them before speaking there and that) 5 
doing so he had “lowered” the testimony of the Church of the Open Dot. 
On Sunday, April 1, after the Moming service, they had a “special, secre 
meeting to which McNeill was not invited. Then, on Tuesday ™ 

mil 10, they met with McNeill. The elders wanted to fire him! : 

aletter to the congregation dated April 11, 1928, McNeil sat: 

My Dear People: . e 

woul 


‘To say “A Thousand Thanks” for your splendid Easter offering dolla 
Tu adequate; for, all told, it came to fwo thousand, eight confidence 


ve 
Nobody whose Opinion is worth anything would believe that I eee : a 
aightest sympathy with Modernism, although I preached ea i 


m that Pasadena Church I brought to them our Fundamen 


1924-1931 


Well, the Elders of our Church held a special meeting 
to which re invited me. (On see, ol Ist, some 
eeting,” after morning service, which was carefully ke: 
This, may I say, never happened to me before, in ane sa me. 
The matter in hand was the discussion of my action in i atl 
p accepting that most 
unexpected request to preach in Pasadena Presbyterian Church on th 
evenings of the Holy Week. I had already told them, frankly and firmly, ihe 
they had no jurisdiction over my preaching, outside of the Church of the 
Open Door. Tomy own Master I stand or fall, in that matter; and those men 
and all as they are, in their places, are not my masters. I give place, to 
them, as Paul would say, by subjection, no, not for an hour. The Session 
Clerkreada long prepared statement, accusing me oflowering the testimony 
ofour Church, etc., etc. He repeatedly stated that many of the members are 
deeply distressed by my unfaithfulness. The conclusion to which the state- 
ment worked up was, that I should resign, as speedily as possible, from the 
Pastorate of the Church; and the confident assertion was made that in this 
whole matter, they were acting on your behalf. This, to a man whose loyalty 
to Fundamentalism had never been questioned — a loyalty that, before now, 
has cooled warm friendships, or withered them altogether. 

Two further charges were made against me. An Elder, in the course of 
other abuse, said that some man had told him that he — this man — would be 
glad “to get me into Court.” I at once said, “About my character?” “Yes,” 
said the Elder. Iasked him to be careful, and to name the man, and say what it 
was. He backed away then, and if I remember aright, wasn’t sure what the 
name was. But the point was: he had got an evil aspersion flung into my face 
— its fact and truth really didn’t matter. It was flung. To my surprise, no 
tebuke came from the chair, nor from any of the brethren. 

Another, and earlier, blow in the face, came thus. The knowledge of the 
secret Session of April st had come to our family, after evening service. My 
son was indignant at the treatment I was getting, and presently came into 
verbal collision with the Session Clerk, who, (with others) was standing 
around. No doubt, angrily (for which I have rebuked him, and he rebukes 
himself) he denounced what he considered a cowardly action. This was 
worked up into the prepared statement on Tuesday night. I was duly told that 
as was not able to rule my family, I was not able to rule the Church of God. 

Bible was tumed up, and I was belabored with 1 Tim. 3:45. Now, 
beloved, with God's blessing, we have been enabled to bring up ten children; 
Sx sons and four daughters, to manhood and womanhood. Every one of 
them walks the world today, with head erect, and character as clear as that of 
this Session Clerk. But, because Archie spoke back hotly to him, T am 
solemnly branded as I have described. It was after this, (by the other Bldes) 
it the anonymous muckraker’s evil suggestion was flung at me. In igh 
ses, I was compelled to see that not a word of rebuke came fromthe cl 
from any members present. 


Dear People, 
ted 


on Tuesday night last, 
of them had a “special 


BIBLE INSTITUTE AUDITORIUM, Sixth and Hope Sereats 


37 


A SEASON OF STRUGGLE 


the Elders where they are; and it must be you who wil say if] 
with you, and continue in these surroundings. The case ig pect 

eyes; and I must be allowed to be the judge, this time. Allof yo, ‘ae ny 
good standing, will please stay behind, after the Benediction s Tiber 
ing, April 29th. It does not need to take more than five minutes 4. ™ 
vote (no speeches) to say that you approve of the interference of the Rae 
with my liberty in Christ, for preaching outside this church ang city, Ele 
you do not approve; and that they only speak for themselves pi 
remember I know already that several of the Elders are not in sympath se 
the action of that secret Session, and the call for my resignation; ath 
do think they were too silent when I was insulted. ! 

But, the situation since last night is unworkable, and impossible Yo 
rallied for the Easter offering, last Sunday; please rally for this short, star, 
decisive action, on Sunday the 29th. 

Kind regards, 
JOHN McNEILL. 

PS. (1) My wife insists on me saying that it was she who first addressed 
some Elders standing around. What she said was: “You call yourseles 
Elders? How dare you interfere with your minister going to preach the 
Gospel where he feels it is needed, and he hears the clear call?” It was here 
Archie broke in. J. McN. 
RS. (2) Three of the Elders, at the Communion Service, Sunday moming 
refused to go down and give the right hand of fellowship to the new 
members, because my son and daughter were amongst them. Oh, Friends 
— many a time have I wondered why the Spirit seemed to be grieved and 
prayer was not answered, in this Church. J. McN. 
RS. () The Stewards, —ordainedmen, are withmetoaman. _ J. MeN. 


McNeill looks like a Scottish Presyterian The bulletin for April 22 announced a congregational meeting tobe 
**: held in the lower auditorium on Wednesday, May 2 at 7:30 P.M. to discuss 
the problems arising from the controversy between the board of elders and 

the pastor and such other business as should come before the meeting. 


On Monday, April 30, McNeill sent out another letter to the cot 
gregation: 


My Dear People, 
Here is my statement of the case between certain Elders, and mysel 
__ Iwasasked by Dr. Freeman, of Pasadena Presbyterian Church, to peat 
in his Church, on the week nights of what is known as “Passion We D 
Freeman, as you know, is a “Modernist.” had accepted similar eee eg 
sau pene eet In both cases, I accepted, without ever 
Consulting my Elders. In both cases, my Elders, (leaders in 
talism) cheered me on; and I thought it a ised chance to carry “Findane g 
Preaching into the enemy’s camp — as they put it. notable 
this case, however, my Elders, some of them — for there a post | 
«ceptions — took the position that I should have consulted them: 4 Toes 
entirely beyond their Province, I frankly and firmly told them ent a 
;.action was, that they met, in a secret session, of which I was "10 
\Bhorance; which was not constitutionally called; nor presided 8% es 
. ch three Elders besides myself were not called. This me cours 
described, by themselves, as a meeting of the “Board of Elders. ~ oy nf 
it was nothing of the sort. At this meeting, I was asked e 


dena; and at a sub: i 

engagement at Pasa 5 subsequent meeting, 

Ntatement” Was read, to me, by the Session Clerk. If oe ae 
writing, and in subsequent speeches, were meant to wound, ee 


ve The “Statement” led Up to, and closed with the erie 
Resignation, as Pastor, be given in “as speedily as possible.” Let me it 


get to say, that, again and again, these men as ‘ 
is ae the Congregation sumed to be speaking for 

[have never claimed to be particularly patient, but, beli 
patient, that night. For, their “Statement, ” and speeches, spar 
meant, that my long years of service, of a unique, and fruitful kind, all over 
the English speaking world; andthe honour, and esteem, that my Master has 
been pleased to give unworthy me, among thousands of ministers and 
people of all denominations, (and among none more than among yourselves) 
counted for nothing with these men. I had dared to question their authority; 
and to claim the same liberty, in Christ that my predecessors in this Church 
had claimed, on similar matters — without a syllable of dissent — therefore 
tumme out. I'm not fit to be minister of “The Church of the Open Door,” any 
longer. 

Now their charges, about “lowering the testimony of the Church, and 
wounding, and distressing ‘faithful souls’,” are, in my case, partly stupid, 
partly libelous, (if 1 care to make them so, elsewhere) and wholly ridiculous. 

I may say that at the monthly Pre-Millenial [sic] Conference, I asked to 
leave to make a statement of my position. I had scarcely finished when a vote 
of confidence was moved, and seconded. I at once stopped it. All I wanted 
had been granted. But what I am leading up tois, that you, the members of 
the “Church of the Open Door,” are hereby (as well as over the pulpit, on the 
previous two Sundays) called to a Special Meeting of the Church, on the 
evening of WEDNESDAY, MAY 2nd, AT 7:30 O'CLOCK. The questions 
there will be, am I to continue as your minister; and, are these men to 
Continue as your representative Elders. 

Kind regards, 

JOHN McNEILL 
PS. (1) Please remember, always, that this trouble is entirely of these 
Elders’ own raising. There was nothing calling for Secret or Special Meetings 
with fair minded men — nothing whatever. _J. McN. 
ES. 2) Don'tlisten to any phone call, ES of Be ere ree 
eeting is postponed. It is not postponed. Rest assured the : 
church, duly and legally called, takes place (D.V.) on Wednesday of Tee 
at 7:30 p.m. : ‘ 


tement, published after the May 2 meeting, records what 


_ Brief “STATEMENT” concerning the 
meeting of the Church on Wednesday evening, 
May 2nd, 1928. 
Scare fe eee thus: Our pastor Se 
speedily as possible,” because he dared to break wn : 
fic gan ae Wee and they said so, 
office, en to : , 
penne caplass The direct votes were over- 


See 


1924-1931 


= s S « 
27 Sip e7s it 
4 - 


Biola’s 1927 faculty is a distinguished 
group. Seated in the front row are: J.B. 
Trowbridge, G. Campbell Morgan, John 
MacInnis, Ralph Atkinson, McNeill, 
William Pike. 


39 


Sets 
A SEASON OF STRUGGL 


after a little confusion, that any Elder who g 
It ae oa teen on our pastor, is not involved in the cra 
See ffice. 3 
discharge from 0 d the feeling of the meeting correctly, Hesy 
The Saeed apna and kept the meeting to the Point, 0 se 
all speeches for ie to form — there would have been a solid h ~ 
if these men ran tru and confusion; suppression of What's tru 
of weary ene These men had had three weeks’ g 
tion of what's t with the pastor, and they only went further wrop 
themselves righ said at the close, — it was his only speech ~ the lg 
As oe Eas do with their minister — whoever he may be ‘ater 
again atte 5 Elis 
fashion.’ is making no further “statement” nor engaging in any futhe 
The We Paes to our tasks; and in loyalty to each other jp 
controversy. 


; d the Master, go forward. The Church is not Split; itis ing 
the Pastor, an 4 
together in love. 


How could You not feel welcome at a church 
with a grand Sront porch like this one? 


1924-1931 


3GLE 


A SEASON OF STRUC 


The gregarious Pastor McNeill is a welcome 
guest at Institute as well as Church social 
functions. He is sitting just to the left of the 
far corner of the room, Trowbridge 

on his nght. 


The June 10, 1928 bulletin states, 


A provisional Board has been appointed to act in conjin«: 
pastors in promoting the spiritual welfare of the congre njunction ve 
will function until the annual meeting in January, at which en «tl the 
Elders will be elected. This action has become necessary ie anew Bark 
of the congregation to appoint Elders at the meeting of May oat fa 


The McNeill controversy is indicative of the fact that pow 

alities have occupied the pulpit of the church. rl pers, 
During a subsequent vacation, Mrs. McNeills health be 

that two specialists recommended she return to England a 

possible. Thus, on October 7, 1928, the McNeills left Los fa \ * 

America never to return. One present at the time wrote, a 

. as the group of friends gathered by the train si id hi 

speed, joined in singing, “God be with ai tl we mesteee ae 
scarcely a dry eye, for they were bidding goodbye to one who was bebe 
a friend and pastor. So ended the ministry in the Church of the Open Dad 
this mighty man of God, great in heart, great in faith, great in bat ; 


2 ae it turned out, he passed away on Apmil 17, 1933, his wife sunm- 


a 


} 
: 
, 
‘ 
A 
‘ 
4 
. 
’ 


fl 
i 
1 
] 


After McNeill’s departure, Donald Grey Bamhous 
Morgan, William Evans, John G. Page, and others filled the pulpit. 

During this period a controversy also arose in the Institute which 
yould threaten Biola and the Church, for it served to erode the financial 
jase of both ministries. This was the infamous “MacInnis Controversy.” 

Torrey successor as dean of the Institute was Dr. John Murdoch 
MacInnis, a graduate of Moody Bible Institute, Syracuse University, and 
Philadelphia Divinity School. He had worked closely with Dr. Torrey at the 
Montrose Bible Conference in Pennsylvania and had served on Biola’s 
faculty for two years before he was appointed dean in April of 1925. 
MacInnis was a scholar with a particular interest in philosophy. 

Though some of his statements troubled some of the leaders of 
fundamentalism, it was the publication in the fall of 1927 of his book, Peter, 
the Fisherman Philosopher, which created a controversy that almost 
destroyed Biola and ultimately affected the Church of the Open Door 
because of its financial implications. His purpose in writing was to present a 
sound philosophy of life, cast in the language of the common man. He 
limited himself to Peter's speeches (in Acts) and his epistles. Yet at the 
same time he quoted extensively from others, including philosophers and 
even some liberal theologians who, in his opinion, echoed Peter's philo- 
sophical views. In the preface to his book he said, 

Our intention is to indicate in a simple way that Peter's insights include a 
most comprehensive view of God and our world and can stand the test of the 
Most searching thinking of our day. 

He called his book, “A Study in Higher Fundamentalism.” 

The book seemed to say that Peter achieved his insights by his 
€xperience, intuition, and reason, e.g., 

He [i.e., Peter] did not know modem science and was not familiar with our 
Modem social philosophy but he did have a genuine experience of life which 
e him a true insight into its nature and meanings which he stated in is 


nthe book he wrote, 


faced the question of death in the throes of revolutionizing experiences 
he came to believe was a burning conviction. Iam fully aware of oe 
Critical questions involyed in the record of these Cee are 
of them would be wholly out of place here. Suffice it to say th 

last word of reasonable criticism has been uttered there rere 
ich can not be dislodged: Peter and his companions were TOU, : 
with the fact of death in a way that wholly changed them ant 
impression upon history as can never be erased. 


tatements concerning the cross which seem to dis- 
nputed the sins of the world to Christ in order to forgive, 


e€, G. Campbell 


the 
le 


th He carried up the sins of the people upon the tree. Here again 


1924-1931 


G. Campbell Morgan, the famous Anglican 
divine, teaches on the Institute faculty and 
draws thousands to his Friday night Bible 
classes in the Church auditorium. Like 
McNeill he wears a clerical collar in the 
pulpit; unlike McNeill he is known to enjoy 
a fine cigar on his way to services. 


Donald Grey Barnhouse travels west from 
his pastorate at Tenth Presbyterian Church 
in Philadelphia. Barnhouse is known for 
his striking use of everyday illustrations in 
his sermons; he ts lesser known as having 
been in the first Biola class (1915) to hold its 
commencement exercises in the Institute 
auditorium. 


oa 


A SEASON OF STRUGGLE 


John Murdock MacInnis is the heart of a 
raging controversy. Fundamentalists are 
enraged over the modernistic approach in his 
book, Peter, The Fisherman Philosopher. 
Under pressure he resigns as dean of the 
Institute. Four board members and 

G. Campbell Morgan leave with him. Board 
Chairman Charles E. Fuller reaffirms the 
orthodox conservatism of Biola and financial 
support begins to return to the school. 


we have a fact stated without any attempt at explanation, 
the final meanings of the fact there can be no question that it ar Tak 
that Jesus carried the sins of the people to the cross. It wae tet 
people that put Him there. The empty formalism, greed, envy ms rN | 
opportunism and injustice of His day struck upon Him and wou, bate 
death. He openly attacked the sin of the race as it was mania Hin ; 
and in the institutions with which He had to do, and men inHg 
exposure, and the deadly nature of the sin which He exposed van | 
the fact that rather than forsake it men actually attacked the Mihi 
killed Him. Peter clearly saw and stated that simple fact. The church 
the full significance of this fact because it has allowed the a ct he 
took place to be over-shadowed by the theological explanation which po 
around it. The thing that we need to clearly see is that Jesus literally i) 
up the sins of the world in His own body upon the tree. There was no ag 
reckoning about the matter. 


Yet at the end of that chapter he said, 


The recognition of this fact, ie., that what God was doing for the war 
was bring it into the realization ofits life at an infinite cost, namely the dea 
of Christ does not deny the further fact that Christ on the cross and intle 
article of death did something once for all to make possible the forgiveness 
sins which could only be done by God. The mystery of that actisa partoftle & 
agony of God which passeth all understanding, which we accept in childite 
faith awaiting the light that may break from it and upon it in the eternal day, 


Was MacInnis indeed a fundamentalist? He himself said: 


Iam a Fundamentalist in the sense that I believe with all my heart witht 
apology or reservation, the foundation truths of the Christian reign! 
believe in God, the Father almighty as revealed in Jesus Christ; i it 
absolute integrity of the Word of God as the only infallible rule of faith : 
Practice; in the deity of Jesus Christ, His Virgin Birth, sinless life, atone 
death, resurrection from the dead and in His premillenial [sic] comingae 4 
like manner as His disciples saw Him go away. J am nota 4 
the sense of belonging to the recently organized party calling itself by tenam 


Nevertheless, letters of criticism began to pour in from cont : 
country. Even members of the Institute itself objected to the Py" 
including Rev. Marion Reynolds, who wrote a sixty-two page paper 0°" 
ing the errors init. Macias 

The board of Biola repeatedly affirmed the credibility of Dr inci 
No statement, however, appeased the incensed fundamentalists, tion. OF 
Dr. W.B. Riley, president of the Christian Fundamentalist Assod2l0% 
February 6, 1928, MacInnis tendered his resignation to save He 
from further attacks. The board flatly rejected it. ae resins 

The trustees of Biola refused to accept Maclnniss eat 


gheh For 


roe 


Leet A FE. 


Gs 


ath \ UE 


is 


Ppt fet 


A 


a 
ory 


f, 
Te 


park os. 


fh of 


2, 


Sef | 


= 


a, 


because he was a sincere he whole™ 
man who assured them that he WO”. jo 
paiotsed the Institute’s doctrinal statement and that noth ie 
eee itin any way. Besides, a group of fundamentalist ‘a i 
N asked to study the book and their verdict was that “a 


were wholly unwarranted.” 


col 
ia) 
n 
ny 
+ 
nN 
a 
= 


B42eSsa 88x 
Eek egeee 
g 2822828 
eels Ba Gl 
EsSseesxes 
SECRSESEE 
SBSSESTZESE 
=| aS Ue) SOME] is 
S259 225 2 
amg ftag es 
ES SBGE RRS 
BS SSE ESE 
Bose SUS as 
BSE ESE OSS 
a) Seags 
os 78S: HES 
aee| Sea Se 
§ PAE oS 
2oo 
SSege: £65 
sec ltaae 
Ss . = 
BSQRERSER 
BERSSESoS 
BSORlSsCG 
SHAS 7 Bx: 
a) SEE) Te 
SESE e esas 
“SE382528 
22 2SS2 ae 
aha ehese 
Aas Z2sece 
eres 2 3 3 
BSanSe252 


iia ge eecondciee mate, 


fice at Phase 
, Ouse 


Enared su mcond-clase master atthe porto 


Copyright, xp, by Th Sunday School Times Co. Entered st the 


Che oe emit Cimnes 


See page 287 


2.00 a year; in clubs, 61.50 


Volume Beventy. Me. 18 


Philadelphia, May 5, 1928 


Published weekly by The Sunday School 
Po rgth Bt, Paile., Pa, 


‘Times Co., $23-327 


i 


Hf 


fe 
§ el 
i 1eyey 8 


pu 


san 
233 


ff 


re 


ait 


a 


Ere 
a 


Baik 


inal ny 


He 
ulpae 


ne 


we 
is ik 


rete 


ficamt message of 


fom Apel 21. 
cae Re 


acids 


i 


TOrTEAY YROVES FINAL BE~ 


et Lee 


ae 


= a 


a 
ay ee 
uan ft 

a Bae 83 


it wet 5 inte ; 


‘us, and from whence 


es 


influence of 
call 
“Angeles.” 


School Times to 


Charles Trumbull uses the full i 
ee 


nt 


aay 


present al 


8. 
tH 4 By i or a 


route se ne 


in Ameren 


ee 
Ae ahi 


Peter—Philosopher or Apostle ? 
si rae arene 


dangers dt this 


Simon 


sua 
indi 


Se Pa iat 


{ 


45 


A SEASON OF STRL JGGLE 


t only a large number of Christian leaders and ini: 

ae Hiroughout the Church in America, but undoubted Mey al a 
Institute itself among both teachers and students, and officers iting, 4 
of the Church of the Open Door which meets on the »u™4itenj. ; 
Institute, are deeply distressed and are convinced that a cree ir 
the life of this institution. The Sunday School Times is in ee | 
more information in the whole matter than it could give in these With mye 
And so the staff of the Times is assured that they voice the heartie om 
prayer of a multitude when they urge confidently upon the di ke 
Bible Institute of Los Angeles that they recognize the trie sai 
cleanse the Institute of all false teaching. Only unequivocal and publ 
to this effect can restore the confidence of the Christian wea 
school.... Many are praying for this action; may many more wit 
prayer, and pray without ceasing until the longed-for and gracious ase 
from God comes (Sunday School Times, May 5, 1928, p. 282), 4 


The Institute answered the challenge. On the front page of the jy. 
1928 issue of The Kings Business, editor Keith Brooks said that ifthe 
Sunday School Times report were true then the faculty of Biola was hing 
when it signed its doctrinal statement. He concluded by saying, 


Such an unjust and subtle attack will, we are sure, be deeply resented)y 
hundreds who know the members of our faculty intimately, and we belie 
that those who stand for common honor among men, to say nothing oftte 
“victorious life,” will register strong protests... The attack upon ar 
Institute has resolved itself into a one-sided battle of mud throwing. Ima 
must throw mud, they should remember that they cannot keep thei oit 


ee clean. [Charles Trumbull was noted for championing “the victors 
omy 4 


schools that were true to the faith. 


_, rhe controversy took its toll financially, With a man of Tum 
influence questioning the dean of Biola (who was the reco: 

SS oi the Institute was without a president at the time), the 
community began to lose confidence in Biola’s orthodoxy. Many ! 
ue withdrew their support. 


gain, MacInnis submitted his resignation. After a bitter de 
board of Biola, for the sake of Sei acted six to four in Novel 
1928 to accept it. The four voting to retain him resigned. ¥- ie 
“7. ea, Who wrote the Introduction to the book and who 
Maclnnis throughout the controversy, resigned from the faculty : 
srooks resigned as editor of The Kings Business. ated 
~hatles Fuller, who was chairman of the board at Biola (gig! 
ollowing statement which appeared in the April 1929 issue of 


, 


omee mee === ~~. + =z ~-- 
sas oe =o SIE 


1924-1931 


After much prayer and serious reflection concemin; 
poms Pies, writen by Dt. 1M. Nac te omer den 
ble Institute of Los Angeles, the Board of Di ; 
be fee statement. i Directors desires to make 
We reaffirm our belief in the great fundamental doctrin Spee 
set forth in the Statement of Doctrine of the Bible Teegnied oa 
Because we recognized that we were in error in commending the book 
Peter, the Fisherman Philosopher, the board some time ago accepted the 
resignation of the author, and he has now absolutely no connection with the 
Institute; and being determined that our testimony to and teaching of the 
fundamental doctrines of Christianity as set forth in the Institute’s Statement 
of Doctrine shall be so clear as to be absolutely above all possibility of 
suspicion, we hereby express our disapproval of said book, and declare that 
its thought and teaching does not represent the thinking and teaching of the 
Bible Institute today; and further, as a first step in the execution of our 
determination to pursue a course which will put this Institute's loyalty to the 
Bible beyond question, we have already discontinued the use, sale, and 
arculation of the book Peter, the Fisherman Philosopher in the Bible Institute 
or elsewhere, and all remaining copies, together with the type-forms, have 
been destroyed. 
_ Inrespect to the future policy of the Institute, the board hereby declares 
cia a ees adhere say to the purpose for which the Bible — 
itute of les was founded, namely: the teaching of the Bible as ; . 
the inspired and infallible Word of God in order to train men and women for Ee hie aed lca 
__ the task of proclaiming the Gospel of salvation through the blood of Christ at MacInnis controversy. 
‘home and abroad. 
‘The Board also hereby declares that only such teachers will be elected to 
i retained on the faculty of the Institute as do solemnly pledge themselves 
itho ation that their teaching shall be in complete harmony with the 
al statement of the Institute and with this declaration, and that they 
out this declared policy of the board. 
at a special meeting of the Board of Directors held March 20, 


Charles E. Fuller 
President, Board of Directors 
Bible Institute of Los Angeles 


Institute and editor for The King’s Business were 
4 members were added to the Board of Direc- 

Fumbull. In the July 1929 issue of The Kings 
ring Confidence” contained letters from 
i Amold Gaebelein, Harry Ironside, 
Evans expressing confidence in the 


ou tanding leaders of the group, 
hich wz once for all delivered, 


47 


A SEASON OF STRUGGLE 


Si 


Trowbridge gave two lasting gifts to the 
__ Church in his tenure: a rich musical 
heritage and Margaret Friant, his daughter. 


was the chief executive, and that the book should be < 
greater surprise came when, under the pressure brought ts TESSe4, Ag 
by this coterie, the board of directors of the institution, ies N 
changed their previously expressed and published convictions Tai 
the dean’s resignation, and later officially ordered the je rip 
remaining copies of the book to be destroyed. Dl 
In the light of this unusual procedure in this day of Christian 
writer went over the book with great care and in the light fhe ts 
Testament, with the result that he is sincerely convinced that, peD Ney 
from the point of view clearly stated in the Preface, there is nothogin : 
book that is either disloyal to Christ, or that denies the evangelica ih 
At the earnest request of many friends, who kindly say tht et q 
been helped by the book, he has consented to have it republished, j 


Meanwhile, the Western Machinery Company, the source of the 
school’s largest endowment, was on the verge of bankruptcy, To : 
the company and Biola’s endowment, the board decided to borrow lag 
sums of money. 

Just before the stock market crash of 1929, the Western Machiney 
Company declared bankruptcy, leaving Biola virtually unendowed and wel- 
indebted. This created financial pressure which would last for years a 
would eventually involve the church. After all, the two institutions lvelin 
the same house. 

From October 1928 to October 1929, the church was without a pastat 
Yet though the church was pastorless and there was a controvelsy 
finaricial crisis occurring in the Institute, there was still progress. 

Shoredale Chapel, a branch work at 2214 Shoredale Avenue ni 
Elysian Park, was organized in February 1929. In 1957, that property" 
Sold to the State of California and the money was used to purchasea 
2333 Fletcher Drive for the new “Open Door Bible Church.” 

The June 9, 1929 bulletin states, 


Roi: tis | 

Today closes the ministry of J.B. Trowbridge as choir direct 
church. For over a dozen years he has piloted the choir safely we 
might have driven it on the rocks of discord and strife. but up 
By his sterling Christian character and example he esi i 
Organization in a spiritual way second to none in the city. In wishes” 
nee pup our choir, he does so with love, esteem and best 3 

» the olficers and the congregation. Coming 
th Trowbridge wrote the music for J.M. Gray's song “Jesus seer 
€ music for Julia H. Johnson's song “Here Am I’ as ve 
songs. 7 
_ Also m 1929, Dr. James A. Vaus assumed for a seorne fo 

incepta? ofthe Jewish work. He had headed up that departing 

Pron in 1915 until 1925. His second tenure extended un ror o , 


of Peter W. Phil third pastOt je 
~ Philpott (1865-1957) became the tu! at 
ee of the Open Door on October 6, 1929. He was sixty thre? 


y a 


1924-1931 


peter Philpott was born on November 25, 186 
he worked at a wagon works shop in a small Ontario town. Th 

Mipessed the transformation of a 250-pound blaspheming Beer 
we Big Oe. Though Peter, by his own admission, had no knowledge of 
christian things, the conversion of his cow a 


orker made a profound i 
: rn. a am i a 
sonupon im. He acted more civil, did better work, and most Tate of 


e used better language. Joe’s changed life conyi 
Paes of the Christian faith. mvnced Peter of the 

Seven months later, at age eighteen, after hearing a lady ina Salvation 
Anny street meeting in Dresden, Ontario sing, “When I Survey the 
Wondrous Cross,” Philpott accepted Christ as his Savior. He became 
acively involved in witnessing, his first convert being his own mother. 
Soon he attained the office of Brigadier in the Salvation Army, serving in 
many parts of Canada until 1894. 

Philpott was married in July of 1887 and eventually became the father 
of thirteen children. 

Inasermon he preached at the Church of the Open Door on March 3, 
1946, (long after he was pastor there) he said: 

At about the turn of the century three great men came into my life, one 
tight after another: D.L. Moody, A.T. Pierson and A.J. Gordon. All of them 
influenced me profoundly. I saw that every one of them was mighty as a soul- 


winner, though each was totally different from the others both in personality 
and in method. 


Sin Canada. Asa young 


southeast corner of Sixth and Flower 
a} bake offers a glimpse of the radio towers 
es i Cae atop the Institute buildings plus a view of 
—— — one of the first car rental agencies in 
—— , Angeles (photo courtesy Historical ; 
: Collections, Security Pacific Nationa 
Bank). 


[ANE se = 


A SEASON OF STRUGGLE 


The new Moody Church building is built as 
Philpott is pastor there. 


Philpott began a small congregation in Hamilton, Ontarin: 
quickly put another in charge of the work. In 1896 he became R Ti 
this church, then called the Gospel Tabernacle (later named i 
Memorial Church), where he ministered for twenty-six years Php 

When he had served the Gospel Tabernacle for twenty. 
church paper, “Tabernacle Tidings,” said, 


‘Twenty-five years ago, Pastor and Mrs. Philpott undertook the 
of the Christian Workers’ Mission in the City of Hamilton, Ontarig 
When the pastor came to Hamilton there were some thirty-five mea. 
on the mission roll. The meetings were then held in an ol hig { 
would 


ty-five Years the 


Hughson Street North, which had been formerly a saloon. It : 
about 175 persons. Under the blessing of God the work began tg oH 
almost immediately, and has steadily increased up to this hour. . .. ] 
For twenty-five years there has never been a week that souls have pet | 
been won to Christ through Tabernacle ministry. The membership noys_ 
considerably over 1,500, and the congregation is so much larger than fe © 
seating capacity of the church that we have been obliged to lease the largest © 
theatre in the city for the Sunday evening services during the fall and winter | 
months... . ; 
One of the most remarkable features of this work, is our Pastors Fri 
Night Bible Class. This began some twenty-five years ago with aboula - 
dozen members, and now, all through the fall and winter months te” 
attendance will range from 500 to 1,000. We mention these facts 82 
testimony to the power of the gospel. In these days when there seems tole” 
an abnormal straining for some new and sensational thing to draw the crowd 
we are proving that the simple, plain gospel finds the hearts of men, and was” 
them for the Master. 
The gospel “is the Power of God unto Salvation.” Peo 
Mr. Philpott never resorts to anything of a sensational character, an 4 
the selection of his sermon subjects or in his methods. He simply seeks 
eamest and plain direct manner to apply the glorious message of the tot 
and to keep free from all fanaticism and fanatics, andit hath pl 
to set His seal upon this ministry in a most phenomenal way. 


Indeed, from 1920 to 1923, evening services were held in the oe 4 
Theater, which held 2,500 people. Even with the addition of 300°” 
chairs, people were still tured away. in Chicad? 

In 1922, Philpott became the pastor of the Moody Church its jy” 
Where he remained until 1929. The current. building, bo que 
Church at 1609 North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Ilinois, was Dat Es. 
Philpott pastorate there. Wheaton College conferred the eer of cae 
tor of Divinity upon him. It was from Moody in Chicago that 4 7 
to Church of the Open Door in Los Angeles. ‘ef but 3 

. , 1 astor Philpott,” as he liked to be called, had é te short ome 
ministry at C.O.D. Several things of note occurred during Ly from Be e 
._ _ Mr. Gordon Hooker, a pianist born in Tasmania, gradual ano at : 
in 1922. Before Philpott became the pastor, Hooker played the Fr oker 
midweek prayer meeting. Soon after Philpott's arrival he © 
Play in the Sunday services. For the next thirty-five years Be 
Pianist for the Church of the Open Door. 


2 


pee . = 


The Los Angeles newspapers gave extensive 


AE : , Coverage in 19) 
Pres of evangelistic Mmeemmes held in the church by Mel Tieiter ca 
Homer Hammontree. That same year, Danny Rose, a Jewish Christian 


-_.cgman, held his first Jewish fellowship meeting in 

bist Feanwhil, the financial crisis at the Institute ee Sn oe 
tal dropped off drastically for several reasons: the ambiguous book by Dr 
Maclnnis; the stock market crash in 1929 which caused the holdings of the 
ipstitution to plunge in value; and the general condition of the economy 
during the Depression. To complicate the problem, Biola had borrowed 
large sums of money to bolster the Western Machinery Company. When 
the banks started demanding payments, the Institute began selling off its 
assets, curtailing the expenses of all departments, and cutting the number 
ofemployees. ‘ 

In May of 1931, two different banks asked for prompt remittance of 
$200,407. The Institute defaulted on both bank notes. It was then the 
board decided to sell the property for $1,650,000. But there was no buyer! 
The banks gave the school a year’s moratorium. 

Every attempt was made to solve the financial crisis, yet liabilities 
increased; income decreased. Fund-raising programs failed. Cutbacks 
were made. Dramatic steps were taken such as selling the KTBI radio 
Station and the Biola press. Yet the financial situation worsened. 

More radical measures were taken. The faculty and staff were given 
twomonths vacation — without pay, of course. Later, the north tower was 
leased to Willard Hotel Company. 

The relinquishing of the north tower meant that the men and women 
Students had to occupy the south dormitory. The night before the move the 
men, finding humor in hard times, sang at dinner, “We shall not be moved.” 

Women responded with, “Come on over to the victory side!” 

All was not bleak, for in 1931 Billy Sunday and a young Australian 

Louis Talbot preached at C.O.D. 
____lnaletter dated October 16, 1931, Pastor Philpott submitted his 
| ‘Sittin. He felt that it would be impossible to continue as pastor 
: Serious consequences to his health. Fi 
his pastorate here was brief, the benefits were great: tive 
nd twenty-six new members joined the church, nine new ain 
added, and the midweek service became one of the largest in 


meeting on Wednesday, © Ae hi 
Seaon « and expressed their appreciation oe 


December 20, 1931 states, 


1924-193] 


James M. Gray, president of Moody Bible 
Institute, is a guest in the pulpit on many 
occasions. Ties between the Institute in 
Chicago and the Institute and Church in 
Los Angeles are informal, but strong. 


it S Vheaton 
L Oliver Buswell, president of V 
tae travels from that Chicago suburb to 
Los Angeles on numerous occasions to 
provide thought-provoking messages. 


A SEASON OF STRUGGLE 


This evening service brings to a close the active minj f 
Philpott as Pastor of the Church of the Open Door. StrY of Dr Bh 
It would be hard indeed to say in words or writing what Dr 
meant to this church. We praise God for aman who stands as tr, Phibt 
as our Pastor has done in proclaiming the Word of God to this fat 
simple and fearless manner. His evangelistic preaching has brought hina 
to a knowledge of Jesus Christ. We have come to love our Pastor ean 
there will be a strange emptiness here when he is gone. But we rea any 
his heart yearns to give his remaining years to evangelistic and 
conference work and we have therefore reluctantly yielded to hisappea tobe 
freed from the work here. 
We shall not say “Good-Bye” for if the Lord tarries, we expect tohaveD) 
Philpott with us whenever he is out on this coast. 


The congregational meeting which formally accepted Philpott§ resig 
nation extended a call to Rev. Louis Talbot, who was at the time pastoring 
a ; Philpott’s former church in Hamilton, Ontario. Talbot replied by telegran 
ee ie ee eo eee on October 31, accepting the call. > 

the eae oe pull sue ae fe ivr Hee on pA a after 4 es 
Ghee A ) courte , including March 3, , to celebrate his sixty years of pas 

Eistercal SES ae aS ministry. He spoke again at the church on February 12, 1956 — whenhe 
was ninety. He passed away on April 1, 1957. 

The years from the resignation of Torrey to the resignation of Philpott 
— June of 1924 to December of 1931 — were years of struggle. Therewas 
the McNeill controversy, the MacInnis controversy, financial pressure, and 
two pastors staying no more than two years each. But the great crisis was 
yet to come. 


Pee oS SS 


CRISIS AND Conou 
1932-1948 SeSIr 


Louis T. Talbot becomes pastor of a church 
that ts trying to weather eight years of 
instability and a depression which has 
brought the world to its knees. 


ome individuals go through life without ever facing a life-threatening 
crisis. Others face such an experience and come away stronger am 
Y before. The Church of the Open Door was to meet such a aie 
7 tinits history and emerge more robust than ever. The pastorate 0! Vr. 
Dot was a period of crisis and conquest. __ : 
Daypats Thompson Talbot (1889-1976) was born in Sydney, Austrat 0 
=| 19, 1889, the sixth of eight children. At age thirteen 
{00k Torrey. Later, Louis 
and the rest of the family to hear Dr. R.A. To y dthe Wilbur 
Cramnan his student and successor. In 1909, he attende’ an J Wilbur Chapman, noled Amero 
Vangelisti A (The musicians with Chapm: evangelist, is the man ce Se IE 
YEE the aie = tic eee, in Sydney. | 4 Torrey — singer Charles — young Talbots thoughts towar 
Alera i ones who accompamed * Ikin after 
the bce a ist Robert Harkness.) As Louis was nes 
Hig decided to enter the ministry. «+ te in Chicago and 
Tamme other had attended Moody Bible eee America in 
Her tp stud Itto Louie. So, at twenty-one he immugra 
Yat Moody's famous school. 


CRISIS AND CONQUEST 


=f 


While a student at Moody, Talbot pastored the E 
gregational Church, but planned to be a missionary to Caan el iy } 
Moody he pastored the First Congregational Church jn Paris Tig 
small church founded by Dr. C.I. Scofield. He went to that cures : 
planning to attend seminary and ultimately go to China. While 2 rat 1 
met Audrey Hogue, whom he later married. he 

From Texas Louis went to Oak Park, Illinois to pastor the Fore, | 
Congregational Church and to continue his studies. After that co 


season of service, Louis pastored the First Westminster Pr, : 
Church of Keokuk, Iowa, Oliver Presbyterian Church of Vj; 4 
(where he became friends with Dr. W.B. Riley and taught persona] crag 
gelism at Riley’s Bible Institute), and then on to the Philpott Tabernace jn 
Hamilton, Ontario. On January 10, 1932, he stepped into the Pulpit of the 
Church of the Open Door. : 
When Louis Talbot assumed the pastorate the challenge was great, A 
congregation of about one thousand people was surrounded by thee § 
thousand empty seats. The Bible Institute, in whose auditorium the church : 
met, was encumbered with a $1.5 million debt. If Biola failed, the church 
would have no place to meet. 
Louis Talbot was a breath of fresh air. His grasp of the Scripture, quick 
wit, and deep love for people endeared him to the entire congregation, 
including the children. He prepared a special object lesson for them every 
week. He had a way of making everyone feel as if he were a part of the 
team. : 
Talbot started broadcasting the Sunday evening service over the rato : 
and the empty seats began filling up. Nevertheless, the whole nation was] 
the grip of a disastrous depression. Millions could not get work and some ~ A 
members of the church were without the bare necessities of life. So Lous | 
opened a church commissary to which those who could brought food !@ 4 


share with those who had none. The church bulletin of July 3 
announces, 


The C.O.D. is opening a Commissary Department. Food-stufls for Be 
unemployed and the needy will be piles at the C.0.D. Mrs. at C4 
Redmondis in charge of the distribution of food. We thank our friendsfor® 
generous response that has already been made for this de} | 
Work. A large number of our people are without employment. be: ft oT 
testing days for many of God’s people. If you know of 2 Oe Es 
Christian men and women, young and middle-aged, please 4 
with the church office. 


Again, the July 10 bulletin contained this notice: q 4 


p S 
Commissary Dept. — Owing to the exceedingly large number We . < 
need, we have decided to dispense the food-stufis sent to this ¢ for oo 
marned people with children. These are trying days, eS 4 
f dependents. Our congregation can rest ass 
gifts are sent in will be wisely and prayerfully dispensed. 


“4 
4 
nt 


UE BE 
> 


1932-1948 


And again on July 24: 
~ misgary Dept. — Many of our peopl 

“fir for the necessities ofllife. These me the cue ae a are 

wwe would urge those who are having difficulty in supplying their Bene p and 

food to talk to Mrs. Redmond. es with 

The depression days were dark ones indeed. 

But there was spiritual glow in the lighthouse called C.0.D Harr 
- mer spoke on scientific subjects as being in accord with the Bible ca 
te aftemoons and evenings from June 12 to July 17, and at all fies 
gervices (there was a Sunday afternoon service) from July 24 to August 7 
1932. John E. Brown spoke Sundays and weeknights for three weeks Fa 

t and September. On the afternoon of December 4, 1932, Mr. and 

Mrs. Robert Harkness (he was the Australian pianist for Dr. Torrey’s 
Australian campaign) conducted a sacred concert. Mrs. Harkness sang 
solos and Mr. gress played the piano and set to music any verse of 
Scripture suggested by anyone in the audience. Billy Sunday spoke on _ Bil i 
Monday night, December 19, on the subject “Booze, Caer and tl trad mai inns his 
Crooked Politicians or Shall We Repeal the Eighteenth Amendment?” CUE COBOURG ERLE 

Yet it was still the Great Depression and Biola was sinking deeper and al oe Sines eae 
deeper into debt. About six months after his arrival, Talbot recommended 
tat the church buy the auditorium which it was then renting from Biola. 
The church would secure a permanent home, Biola could still use it, and the 
} iimediate financial crisis would be solved. But the church was having 

tiiculty balancing its own budget. So the executive board postponed the 
-_tkcsion to purchase. 

InNovember 1932, Talbot was made acting president of the Institute, 
_ “sitting the added responsibility without remuneration. As the year’s 
_ Toratorum given Biola by the bank was drawing to a close, Talbot again 
t apes that the church purchase the auditorium from the school. This 
idea was favorably received. : : 
January 22, 1933, the church gave Talbot the authority to appoint a 
pute to investigate the possibilities. He appointed Messrs. Billings, Booklets like this are in large demand both 


yers, Nyman, Robinson, and Rose to the con ran Fron tf the tren id rads 
lary 16, 19. tion gathered to conside: audience. 
33, the congregation ga! Be exretttneilord 


spoke. The pastor exhorted the: 3 
Hugh Evans answered questions. The vote was in favor 


implement the purchase. 
i ss, Evans, Hunt, 


was then appointed to 
isted of Messrs. Bassett, Cro 


challenge in the bulletin. It said 


1e pastor printed a 


ity like Los Angeles 
acity place to prea ai 


rvilege to be stationed in the heart of 
! fone anda half million people. What a 


CRISIS AND CONQUEST 


HALLENGE 


A 


ag 
ey 


LPL dt ee Hate 
fy ipekiety a 

HAE ile 
a a 


tle 


f 


ie cy or 


n,n 
fa 
ay free 

i 

Ee 

i 


lite 
Ri 

f 
Ht 
HH 
| 
f 2 
at 
Coir 


7 
‘The coomy will no doubt bring before ws many things to ducourage 
thin project. but we are confident that God is leadang, and that Hie wall see 


We aak the camest prayer vf Gal's people that i all things the of 
‘ata of ihe Charch will be prven divine poodanee, 


the Gospel! What heartaches, sorrows, disappointments 
broken homes are to be found in a great city like this and wh bey ? 
for an individual or a church to live without putting forth teh fy 
bring Heaven's balm to the needy and to point men to Christ = de y 
ve! Me 
We are thankful to God that this Church is anxious to do ex: 
who has done so much for us. hos 
We accepted the challenge, and in order to establish Ourselvesing | 
strategic spot in the city of Los Angeles for the preaching of the Cone 
authority to the Official Board to enter into negotiations With the Di. 
of the Bible Institute with a view to purchasing the auditorium as 3 ye 
nent church home. Pete 
This step, if carried forward, will mean more to this church aud toe 
ultimate cause of Christ than any of us can estimate. It will mean that ge 
place, which was chosen by men of God as the most Strategic locatinns 
city for preaching the Gospel and teaching the Word of God, Wilbens — 
tained for this same blessed ministry. This step will also render eat serie 
to the Bible Institute of Los Angeles in this, her crisis hour. 
The devil is doing his best these days because he knows his timeiss: 
The Son of God calls us to follow Him in a great adventure. He sqs‘z 9 
forward.” Our reply shall be: “Arise, let us be going.” j 


Like waves beating on the rocky coast during a storm, one crisis 
another hit Talbot and the church. His wife, Audrey, was admitted fo 
hospital for a radical mastectomy. Talbot and his two daughters mores 
with their neighbors, Mr. and Mrs. William Nyman, for a short time! 
Nyman had been an elder in Talbot's church in Oak Park and had ben 
leader at C.0.D. 


, southern California, killing 120 people and Causing $50 million 

cae, Sh0O Jrene Howell described the scene at C.0.D.: 

F jgcamage- hole city trembled with fear, and eve 

4 The W a ake was followed by many more, s 
The large ae evening service, while Dr. Talbo d 
atthe Sun i halfa dozen people jumped from their Seats and started to run. 
jolt hit. ie auditorium shook, Dr. Talbot immediately took over like a 

As that grea! eneral. In an authoritative voice he shouted, “Sit down! Sit 
cn Ei of you. Brother, if you start a riot in this buil 
down, 


ding tonight, in 
ight of God you will be a murderer. Sit down! Sit down!” And the people 
thes 


Tyone was living on nerves, 
ome light, some very severe, 
t was preaching, a very heavy 


o inally the building stopped shaking, but those in the audience still 
ay S tense. 
a ee aes talks to a hurt child, Dr. Talbot comforted his 

Oe on til the tenseness was gone and calm restored. He bowed is 
ee eat us all to the Lord’s protection. Then he went on with his 
head, eee nothing had happened. Oue mute ne, bes thes touches 
ra ili eneral, the next he quie 0 i 
2 oe ae pace happened that night had the right man not been 
only S 
inthe pulpit. 


1 


G. Tovey 


Midst of these trying times Herbe He was also direct 


of music on March 19, 1933. 
S| 
nted to the church. The purcha 


0! 
: thly paymen 
was Hes cislonge was accepted. 
percent). 


leads a handsome choir in 1934; the 
ee ary map has not yet 


1932-1948 


57 


CRISIS AND CONQUEST 


Shawwen a 


nar 


te brit end ie work, 


LOUIS T. TALBOT, Pastor 


Sarco 


{ 
i 
| 
| 
{ 
{ 


On May 28, the campaign to raise the $25,000 dow 
begun. The bulletin for that day says, 


eT 
—... e 
i A CLARION CALL IN A CRIsjs HOuR 
f 
i vav 


Pena omens pea prea ere ree Set Re Co eS 
. ON 


The cults of various kinds would be glad to Secure this 
propagation of error and heresies but the Church of the 
determined that by the grace of God, this place shall be 
testimony it has given out since its dedication. 

The problem was the $25, 000. People did not have enough moneyie 
groceries, much less an auditorium. In the words of Talbot’ biogra ; 
“The challenge and improbabilities of raising this sum were the Sreatest the 
church or any of the congregation had ever known.” The building tag 
Survived the earthquake, but could it survive its creditors? 4 

Talbot describes what happened next: 


Cente 
Open Doge. 
Preserved for 


We felt that God had been so often dishonored in the way money had beat 
raised for church work that we determined to cast ourselves wholly upm 
im and venture out in faith, We made a covenant that we would m 
approach any individual and ask for money, but that we would ask Godtol 
the need upon the hearts of the people as that need was made known fii 
the platform and over the air. ; 
The response was unanimous and enthusiastic. The choir gave ove 
thousand dollars, the Sunday school over three thousand dollars, andl 
young people's societies one thousand dollars. ott 
Hundreds of letters have been pouring into my office fromall parts 


United States and the world, Let me share one of them with you, forits*? 
1S typical of them all: 


no mone 7 
and soul ; 
They want you to : 
Thay be raised and B hy 

. He ‘ 

to give all the ve, these two gold rings. May God bless , f ‘i 
i nee ie tworings. .. . The gold itself was worth onde i 


ree le sacnificial spirit of which it was 


eo 


Ttold the Story of these ; i congress es 
two rings to a Sunday morning were PY; 

Church of the Open Door. Nearly three thousand pees 3 
the were tears as they listened, I expressed the desire 10 thei! 
Sanitorium Where these girls were confined and retum 


1932-1948 


A WORD OF APPRECIATION 
vay 


iy persons ¥ ee 
4 wae put each of the friends paid the fifty dollars o: fetes cards were |} rz 


} When! visited those girls a few days later and retumed 


“very costly --- and the house was filled with the 
ee 


sa 

Over the air and from the pulpit Talbot continued to “make the need 
igo.” He himself gave to the cause asking the church to cut his salary 
wiiitwas down from $541.67 to $200.00 per month. However, the church 
jkoset aside $100.00 per month on which he could draw for rent and car 


an June 4 bulletin continues this message from the pastor to the jul leone ne als aa 
peoples ey ya me Fo pia 

Last Lord's Day the sum of $8,000 was given incash. This is a tremendous a nate ne 
sum in view of the financial crisis through which the world is passing, and we 
are not unmindful that in the greater number of instances, the gifts represent 
sacrifice and denial. Of this amount $700 came from the radio audience in 
response to an appeal given over the radio last Saturday morning. 

Our God still lives and can work in the hearts of men as He did in the days 
‘ofold, The One who opened the doors of the prison that confined Peter and 
‘smote the fetters from the ankles of his servant ... can break the financial 
{fetters which bind this place and bring us into a new liberty in the Gospel, so 
we may exercise greater influence and preach the Gospel with greater 
than we have ever known. ... Let us pray fervently to this end. ... 


st week ofJuly was designated as a week of prayer. The bulletin 
that mass meetings had been arranged for the first three 
s in July. Speakers included Dr. William Evans and Dr. 


inues the drama: i. 
e laced in the main auditorium at the back of the 

Ree iuiicatng from week to week the progress In 
‘made, : 

were sO situated finant 


days when the Lords people brought of their 


femple. . - - 
K le. 
ot eets chains, bracelets, and 


CRISIS AND CONQUEST 


ir 


Twenty years after the auditonum 

is dedicated, a missionary map 

appears. Lights indicate Church and 
Institute missionaries. Two other versions 
will follow in the succeeding fifty years. 


1932-1948 


Members 


z naiah 68 
Not Supported 


; ies 
“tere 
as oy send me: 


CRISIS AND CONQUEST 


A thirteen-year-old boy wrote, 

Mr. Talbot, enclosed is a five-dollar bill I got a job ona, 
vas Se ———— dollar a day. I have to get up at three o'clock in the Toming [}e 8h 
FIFTEEN DAYS—THIRTEEN THOUSAND DOLLARS! five days and I give you five dollars. le Vat 

edi The July 2 bulletin contains another message from the Pastor 

Cate IFTEEN DAYS — THIRTEEN THOUSAND po 

enue git sc aa arate E IT CAN BE DONE! LARS! 

eg oe te gr to The bank has set the date and it will not be changed. Just Sag 


remain... in which this question can be pondered, prayed over, ang de 
by each member of this Church and each visitor to this congregation 
Around these walls is steadily rising the black tide of apos 
unbelief. Its dark waters are actually washing at the threshold of our dyn 
This Church is the breakwater — the outer protection of one of the Tg 
significant and important Christian movements in America today. Within 
encircling arms stands the great Bible Institute of Los Angeles wih i 
twenty-five years of unbroken testimony, its two thousand graduates, its, 


Within tt 
ith ite 
it 


85 


i seven hundred missionaries of whom three hundred are now in the forig je 
= field. When you contribute to this fund, you are saving not only the Church § 
at but the Institute as well, and preserving a movement which has had is” 


2 


martyrs and its saints in many lands. The failure of one is the failure ofboth, 
LOUIS 7 TALBOT, Par and the loss will have its repercussions and echoes... far overseas. 


Let us one and all rise to this occasion and complete this fund wihat 
delay. : 


Carol Talbot describes what happened: q 
re ellen SCS People who had thought they had given everything they possibly a 
157 US PN TE TASK WE HAVE UNDERTAKEX_NOW prayed harder and dug deeper, while Louie continued on the radio. Ina 
ee ae giving was the sound of joy, not of the greatness of their sacrilice, b 
SS woman brought in a beautiful set of sterling silver, a diamond mn 
ee Wedding ring; she wrote: “What a joy it has been to have apartt 
ze task! How near our Lord Jesus Christ has come to us through 
__rurip. Tonana rive nopous soon you all it has done for me.” 
cen ae oes And again on July 9, 
ees ge JUST SEVEN DAYS REMAIN IN WHICH TO RAISE T! 
aan OF NINE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLL! 
Ze Sacto tora son = IT MUST BE DONE! 


‘ead 


wa Sunday is our final day of decision. There can beno delay 
no second chance. Let us pray over it daily during the next 


The people responded: the 
: they prayed and then gave, Some 
cay, ues diamonds and a number of gold wedding 2 
Finally, the July 16 bulletin records, 


ere sists be to Ged, Mho Giveth Ata The ictory Fhreugh Our ord 24 


reat 
one fo 


ip 


VICTORY! 


THE GOAL REACHED! 
$25,365.47 CASH RECEIVED TO MAKE DOWNP. AMEND 


e victory service, the thermometer bur: 


ing th i f : St its tube. The 
vis stood while the choir sang the Hallelujah Chorus. The tears 


ly. 
ied pe dle of the down payment had been jumped. Now the race 


. odasthe congregation still had to raise $2,000 a month in additi 
ied eee Furthermore, the people had given sacrificially saute 
<sion Was still deepening. 
Tabot’s position with Biola was changed from acting president to 
‘ent. But by February of 1935 he decided Biola needed someone full 
fine, so he resigned. That year he was the commencement speaker at 
Heaton where the degree of Doctor of Divinity was conferred upon him. 
Miss Ramage, a radio listener from Riverside, donated money for the 
eection of ahuge neon sign on the roof of one of the dormitories. In seven- 
futhigh red letters it read “JESUS SAVES.” It could be seen for miles. 
After an evening service in February of 1935 nearly 3,000 gathered to hear 
three trumpets on the rooftop play “We have heard the joyful sound, Jesus 
ses, Jesus saves!” The great crowd began to sing and the sign was tumed 
onfor the first time. 
Danny Rose offered to donate a matching sign for the roof of the other 
ae His contribution did not cover the cost, so Ray Myers made up the 
erence. 
These two signs remained aglow until 1985, and became a Los 


‘ageles landmark. 


Histone L 


roclaim 
tis identify 
be influential 1” 
travelers. 


THE GOAL REACHED! 
ASH RECEI 


Angeles landmarks appear in 
1935. res Saves” signs will not only 


sine Church for mans, and will 


1932-1948 


VICTORY! 


MAKE DOWN PAYMENT: 


1 Truth, they will 
the lives of anonymous 


CRISIS AND CONQUEST 


On November 7, 1937, C.0.D. celebrated D.L. Moody’s Centemy 
Dr. Talbot spoke in the morning service. Bishop John Taylor Smit 
London and Dr. Will D. Houghton preached in the afternoon and Dr Dh 
Philpott, the former pastor, spoke in the evening service, | Serving 
throughout the next week Bishop Smith, Dr. Herbert Lockyer, Dy Wily | 
Evans, Dr. Philpott, and Dr. Houghton spoke. 
A more appropriate week could not have been held at C.0. D. Atta, 
time every pastor of the church had either been associated with or cane 
out of either Moody Church or Moody Bible Institute. 
Though C.O.D.’s purchase of the auditorium in 1933 
porarily, it did not solve Biola’s financial problems. In 1938 the Institute yas 
again faced with bankruptcy. This time the situation was so bleak thatthe 
board of directors reluctantly gave permission to file under Statute 7B 
the National Bankruptcy Act, provided no refinancing plan could be worked 
out with the banks. Four board meee resigned, some fearing’ 
i individual board members might be liable. 7 
Chin came ‘Thos msn Again, Dr. Talbot came to the rescue. Aca pa i ee j 
ol ions he mortgages on Biola and initiated foreclosure proceedings. Wo 
wl ae conc of te St Cal ee from Biola and the church, ee ae bees: a 
siorenee lesan Its : egation to consider taking the responsibility for the ; 
eee gee ores ees and Merchants Bank and then planned ne get Security Fist 
other evangelical institutions — without the National (now Security Pacific National Bank) to refinance. 
ee ee Security First National agreed providing that: 
The $291,000 second mortgage be cleared immediately ' 
$1,250 per month or more be paid by Biola from the Willard Hotelte# 4 
$2,000 per month be paid by the Church of the Open Doot oni 
continued purchase of the auditorium eh 
$1,250 per month be paid by the Church of the Open Door forrest 4 
other portions of the Institute used by the church 4 
$50,000 be paid by Biola within the year on the first mortga 
_ Currently at $188, 000. ae q 
While negotiations continued with the banks, foreclosure notices it 
posted on the two Biola towers. The buildings were to be sold at PU? 
auction. Wanting to make sure it got its money, each bank posted yer, 
notices, one for August 5 and the other for August 8. The banks p 
4 Sake the Institute could not come up with the $291,000 necessary 
Ray Myers is a giant in his oun right. A “7 “ment the plan. 


member of the board of both the Church and An indignant Talbot ri p “anos! 
the insti his CEs skills, spiritual nipped the notices off the buildings 


vitality, and financial support are important e, Ray Myers, and Bob Robinson then visited Farmers 


contributions in the mest diffcult of times. BaNK, Which held the $291,000 note. The bank held 4,000 shares 
When times improve his service continues 
unabated. 


a 


000 in cash. When pressed for further reduction in the ca 
the bank came down to $50,000. Sh ome 


1932-1948 


nt, Talbot and his colleagues : 
con t 
ficial agreed to the stock and $25,000 in aed to haggle” until fe 
op bargaining. Ifyou don't, youll be cong dares z 
ve dollar Di own here and offering 
But there ye pes indebtedness. The instite Th g 
y fromthe se tewart Trust, owingit $548 5S ad also borrowed 
plow rego a Mrs. Lyman Stewart, exe 9. So Talbot and his 
ustanda Biola ard member. She graciously ne Cutor of the Stewart 
6 100,000 ifforeclosure proceedings were stop od ed to reduce the debt 
tpbot then called the congregation of the cues togeth 
er on Monday 


st, July 25, 1938. He challenged them to m 
eet the goal of $25, 
Q , 000. by the 


Talbot burns the first of two mortgages. This 
one, for $700, 000, is a major step on the 

to victory. It isa ageneration will not 
forget, September 11, 1938 (photo courtesy 


Los Angeles Times). 


CRISIS AND CONQUEST 


Danny Rose, a converted Jewish 
businessman, heads up the Jewish 
Department work from 1939-1970. He also 
bays for most of one of the Jesus Saves 
Signs, 


: ined that they would ; 
August 5 deadline. He explained tha t | get rid of 
ae peeees with $25,000 in cash. This time he had just enn pe Oy 
it! 


on 


He made warm, convincing appeals over the radio, 
responded. Some, unable to give cash, donated other Precious oe | 
tte 


lady sent in her engagement ring which she had haq for twe 
peta His people, God supplied the needed funds, Disa 
averted. : : ; 

In the meantime, spiritual blessings continued. Special Speakers 

always been a part of the ministry of the church Partly because tig 
connection with the Bible Institute. The 1930s were no Xception: 
G. Trumbull, editor of the Sunday School Times, A.C. Gaebelein, editor 
Our Hope, W.L. Pettingill, founder and president of Philadelphia Schoal af 
Bible, Will Houghton, president of Moody Bible Institute, Dr Water 
Wilson, the medical doctor tumed Bible teacher, and W.B. Riley, pastor 
First Baptist in Minneapolis. 

In 1938 a second missionary society was formed. The first had been 
organized in 1927 by Mrs. McN eill, wife of the second pastor. The second 
society, originally called the Young Women’s Missionary Auxiliary andlater 
named the Dorcas Missionary Society, was founded by Mrs. Louis 7 
Talbot. Among other things the group provided new wardrobes for return 
ing missionaries and their children. 

Also in 1938 Dr. Daniel Rose, the converted Jewish businessman 
became director of the Jewish Department. : 

From September 15-22, 1940, the church celebrated its Silver An 
versary. Some twenty-five speakers spoke during the week of meetifs 
including Dr. William Evans, former dean of the Bible Institute, Dr. be 
Sperry Chafer, president of Dallas Seminary, and evangelist Wiliam 
Nicholson. The next Sunday, September 29, the church said farewelltoD! 
Herbert G. Tovey, the Minister of Music, who resigned in order to beco™ 
the pastor of the First Baptist Church in Montebello. 


Ny: 
StEr Was 


ee 
1932-1948 


Kylight, just as 


suas ba Y Serviceme 
on to wat assed through the church in those days. More than ise 
jet § ° av and countless ministered to in various ways. Dr. Suth er 


4 e : . Sey 
aa » Bible Institute and director of Christian Education at the church 


= t arranged for a fellowship hour to be ; 
De be the evening service. We had = asi for the men in 
the mr” and refreshments for them, and they were shied re Se 
fom Biola and young people om ae srt Dr. Talbot would come ao 
ater he had finist hed ie ca viduals in the main auditorium; and it 
was thrilling indeed i tell those military men how much we 
aprecated what they were doing for our country. H 
eciated red teks the would urge them to 
getright wit ithe i she 'y Went overseas. Some who had not made 
oie sg petals Sai GaN PEERS ed Ce Som Sutera id 
ts director of Christi 
Maha Gideon New Testament. y and present each one seen at the Church af ital the 
Accommodations and meals were provided for servicemen on Satur- warm style sal mike See ea 
| isrigts. By one estimate, there were sixty to one hundred servicemen 8” 7s#ons of Biola'C-O.D. people 
} eae rua evening. As a matter of fact, a special Bible 
Was or 
: Then before the war was over, in November of 1944, Dr. Talbot 
- siitted his resignation as pastor of the church. After considering Dr. 
lis heavy load at the Institute and on the radio, it was accepted. The 
‘Seuive board adopted the following resolution on November 13: 


‘it resolved that the Executive Board accept the resignation of Dr. 
'T Talbot as the Pastor, who has served so faithfully for thirteen years 
blessed. 


Easter Sunday 1945 marks the burning of 
preg a cbogird peda 

. , Louis , Mrs. , 
bulletin for December 17, 1944 states, NO acum wilhary man, ond SAM 
Board of Elders recommend to the Sutherland look on. 


accepting Dr. Talbot’ resignation be 


FORWARD! MARCH! 


=| 


i 
2 


i} 
a 


at 


his resignation and to. 
id presented the resolution and 


+ our Bard was abe to cance 


a, 


Gi 


ry 


a 
1. Nos, 


{aise 


ey 


» fie OL. 
* 


% 
% 
, 


' xR 
1 3 
~~ 
S 


\ 
x 


ai 


_ 
F 
H 3 
iy 
es 
rt 
2 


pulbs 


= ae ‘ 
i me. 


TALBOTET 4 
i SUNDAYS 
Bp van 2. 30:PM 


- CRISIS AND CONQUEST 


orld War II ended and servicemen came to ¢ aif 
see to make permanent homes, Dr. Talbot Temaineq thee Ty 
church he had served since 1932. cof 
In March of 1947, apartments — later known as the “ing 
courts” — at 1517 Rock Glen Avenue in Glendale, California Ee Sy 
chased for just over $18, 000. be 
On June 7, 1947, Arthur L. Reimer, who had been the me 
music since the resignation of Herbert G. Tovey in September % 
terminated his service as minister of music. On the next Sunda, 


ler of 
14 


tome ic a 

Acom Lodge is a mountain retreat and again became the minister of music. ey 

camping center for Church me of In the fall of that year the church purchased Acom Lodge, a Ne 
all ages. 


retreat located on the northern slope of the Sierra Madre mountains sit 
two hundred feet above sea level and eighty-six miles from Los Angeles 


Talbots missionary journeys take him 
around the world; here he is sharing the 
Zospel with New Guinea tribesmen. 


Dr. Talbot's travels, and especially the tropical conditions, took ° Fr 
on his health. His doctor informed him he must give up at least patt 
work. In 1948 he resigned as pastor of C.0.D. telling the congregation 


ool 
Ithas been my conviction that generally speaking, long pastorates 
for the good of any congregation and certainly seventeen yeals 


ited 
enough for anyone ... I am happy that I will be leaving the Church us 


People in a prosperous state spiritually. I trust that this will ever" 


It is with very deep sadness in our hearts that we --: a 
well services for our Pastor. ... After many attempts es F 
eae We were finally obliged to accede to his request to be ss sed ur 
need for him to lessen some of his activities was impr his eo 
when ... he underwent a serious major operation. Then, to0, 


__ cag president of the Bible Institute of Los Angeles were increas; 
sites pete a choice between the two positions was renee Sat to 
the PO vetelY satisfactory association of seventeen blessed years wea er 

: me ‘bye, and thereis not amember of the church who will do so wi ia 


ee earl at what Dr. Talbot, under God, has accomplished 
ese years to realize how completely faithful he has been. Clearing a 
paling ++ of debt ... he has built a national Teputation as a prophetic 
preacher and evangelist... Under Dr. Talbot's ministry thousands of souls 
fave beet saved; the church membership has increased from 1200 to 


ae itis not only because Dr. Talbot has been so faithful that this parting is 
sohard. Itis also because he is beloved. 

Inspite of his concentration upon almost insurmountable tasks for God, he 
tas taken the time to express a personal interest in us, advising us in our 
problems, and comforting us in our sorrow. It is a well-known fact that Dr. 
Inis T. Talbot is the “most approachable” of all the great preachers — 
humble, and human, and humorous. 

Eyera real friend to us, he has become so much a part of our lives that it 
hurts to sever the ties that bind. The spiritual impact of his life upon ours and 
ourfanilies willlast through all eternity. He has literally poured out his life for 
God and for us. 

May God bless you, Dr. Talbot, in discharging your great responsibilities 
aspresident of the Bible Institute. ... May God continue to multiply you in 
the lives of thousands of lost men and women. . . . 


Ss ForLouis Talbot, resignation was not retirement. Even though he was 
tlissities, he still worked at Biola, traveled, spoke, and made missionary 
tis In1952, Biola named its new seminary after him. ; 
Afteralong bout with cancer, Audrey Talbot went home to be with the 
aa 1960. For the first time in forty-four years, Louis was alone. After 
ted Years of going solo, Louis married Carol Terry, a Biola grad who 
“ved for more than twenty years as a missionary India. He 
Not is ms Ss al hoe ted nonia and 
Noho’ after his eightieth birthday, he contracte poemnone 3 
‘What the When he saw tears rolling down Carol's cheeks he on : 
Me jpg matter with you? For this I was born. For this I've live : |my 
Ee” Sace to face. It will be all glory. Ican hardly nee 
Mase fons 9 ata short time. On January 22, 1976, Loui 
: ie was born. 
Wed : i as pastor was one of crisis and conflict. Cad yee 
the - conquered. When he resigned, the weak an eee ot 
7 Emog i, ° Seventeen years before was now strong and sole. wae 
Ds Stith, a of his generation had spoken from its ie ire 
ieee E. Fuller, Harry Ironside, and many, Dey 
from ty, had been saved. The missionary ae 
Ndred cut to seventy-nine and the members “4 
q five hundred members. The chur 
y for even greater conquests. 


first wife, Audrey, died in 1960). She gives 


1932-1948 


Carol Terry, Biola grad and former 
missionary, becomes Talbots second wife (his 


“Louie” new vitality; their years together are 
very happy ones. 


be the most beloved 


Pd » well 
HA. Tronside may i om. His travels 


general 
i » to the Church of the 
nes pte sawing tes in Dallas, Texas he 


teaches B ible to an eager Young man, 


Vernon McGee. 


CRISIS AND CONQUEST 4 


Sarat jain 
Woh hi \ iI = | 
ww HK “4.3 - 


Missionary conferences are highlights under 

Talbots ministry. He is not shy about 

donning a Mongolian costume to express his 
enthusiasm for missions. 


1932-1948 


Preaching in Nigeria, Talbot ‘fashions two 
sticks into a cross to illustrate his message. 


CRISIS AND CONQUEST 


= 


‘iW am 
ai = ed a ~! 5 
f a yy =i Dg 


rea 
y 


4 


i 
lf 
Jif 


GETTING THE WorD Our 
1949-1970 —- 


J. Vernon McGee is the fifth pastor of the 
Church; he will serve longer than any 
pastor before or since. 


n the process of living, a person begins with concem for himself. mu 
| an individual matures, there is more and more thought eM ie 
serving others. Childhood friendships make him aware of others; tone 
Tiage, ifitis to be successful, demands that attention be given toatleas 
other human. Children broaden a parents horizons even further 
who continue to grow and mature also think of others outside of th 
or their family. who 
The Church of the Open Door was founded and formed by ee ant 
understood that persistent selfishness was sinful, that individ elemelt 
churches must serve others. So from the beginning there was tat hell 
of maturity in the infant church. The truthis, there was rarely a tn°T 
there was not concern for the salvation of others. rid We 
Now, having conquered the crisis and weathered another Me 


chit 
C.O.D. was ready to give even more attention to the task for which 


Created — getting the Word out. 


ting in which th 
yp the Same ase e church 
Talbot, it : regretfull 
etapa 
Fo) eee Pasa . J. Vernon McGee (1904 ndation of Dr 
psn tae qasaiena ae aseuiacd ine oltice : who had been 
1, 1949. of senior past 
ein vernon McGee was born in Hillsbor i 
(es rather was aN EE SOS job st Texas on June 17, 190. 
. nit for a year OF SO and movi ed for him to build a 7s 
: e on to the next job ld a cotton 
jps fourteen, the family had moved twenty-f job. By the time Ve 
fasand Oklahoma! y-four times throughout ae 
= Dayne in 2 Gaistern faim ateeletorts wi 
atl a wy Nashville, Tennessee, Hee thes 
ingped out of school elp support his mother and si sneer: 
and went to work. He wa and sister, Vernon 
sore, gl store, and later a bank. s employed in a hardware 
| awe he was induced against his will 
. The message struck hom ; to attend a Bible 
tre, yong Vernon lay d e. Outside, under 
aa y down on his fs ) a water maple 
God called me to the ministry,” and cried out to God. “That i 
Before he could e ministry,” he said later. apes 
ipftish high school fea Cale so nonneseste for the ministry, Vernon ha 
Malo crop out Bee ee cane when wen i high stn 
s the oldest one when I went back — but I 


Through th 

a... e hi q 

! aul in Willace Laue Presbyterian elder this poor boy was able to 

Sega Be oc a a private school for rich kids. Later, while 
iniversity in Memphis, he won the Mack Greek 


_,. When he 
i grad 
se uated from college he desired to attend seminary, but 
anecktie fr : joni i 
tend asked eae widows he had met earlier. That same day they 
- Dresented him age their home. As he left their home that day 
Memory of their h an envelope. Inside each one was a check for 
tai Theological Semi usbands. Those gifts allowed him to enter 
4 year Greek minary in Decatur, Georgia. AS a student there he 
t graduation oa pastored a little country church. 
Pas and e entered Dallas Theological Seminary where he 
doctoral = 
degrees in theology. 


Tates foll ume, Texa 
lowed i 3 
edin Nashville, Tennessee, and in Cleb' e, LexAs, 


FD by MR 
ther uth 
Jordan, a young school teacher who became his e. 
ia where he served as 


By 
: Nt con es to Pasadena, California 
On cee of ae e Presbyterian Church for eight years 
Tere to C.0 Hoes pastorate he also taught at Biola. 
“as.” The Rae ered: ‘1m just 4 P 
yy tummed preacher was also a gifted expo 


At age nineteen Ve i 
ni enon’ life has yet to 

Bue deci course which will es ane 
-known Bible teacher in the world. 


ss a schoolteacher from 


McGees wife, Ruth, ts @ 

Clebume, Texas: with daughter Linda they 
make their home in wh ee 
affectionately calls his “bu 
Altadena. Ruth and Li 

studying the office he builds over his 


garage. 


1949-1970 


ke 


draws an 


ssionary conference 
repeated 


The 1949 mis 
overflow crowd. This scene will be 
in McGees pastorate. 


83 


GETTING THE WORD OUT 


of the Word whose passion was “to get the Word out,” and that he dd 

On September 20, 1950, McGee introduced the first “Thry the R 
ina Year” program to an audience of 2,200 assembled at the church, il 

In the fall of 1955, the mid-week service was changed from Wedy 
day night to Thursday night so that members of other churches K 
desired to hear Dr. McGee teach could come and still atteng Thidwee 
services in their own church. And come they did. Between 1,500 and 2,3) 
attended his Thursday night Bible studies year-round. It was the ltgest 
McGee and his board of elders are familiar midweek service in America. 

faces to C.O.D.ers of the fifties. McGee's pattern was to move back and forth from the Old to the New 
Testament in order to show the relationship of the testaments, and tg 
provide topical variety. The program was repeated in 1953 and initiated 
again on January 2, 1958 — this time to extend over a two-year period, His 
fourth “Thru the Bible” program was launched on Thursday, December’, 
1961, extending over a period of three years. 

Because of the many demands of the music department of Biok, 
Dr. Herbert G. Tovey resigned as minister of music effective October 15, 
1950. 

An extensive visitation and community program was begun in 1953 
under the direction of Dr. John Mitchell, assistant pastor. Community 
gatherings were held at least once in every area where C.O.D. members 
resided. Visitation outreach was led by Rev. Don Rhodes assisted by Ret 
Ralph Scoville and Rev. Edward A. Waldeck. Later, visitation voluntees 
provided a minimum of one hundred visits a week. 

In 1954, McGee began the high noon broadcast over KGER. In 1982 
he started “Manna in the Morning” over XERB. Then a question 


= 


McGee is perhaps at his best in the midweek 
service; clearly the midweek service becomes 

the best in the country as his “Thru the 
Bible” concept catches on. 


1949-1970 


rogram Was added. By 1965, the radio mini 
gave PI eight daily broadcasts extending througho 
el a Vashington, Texas, Ar’ kansas, and several 
oe, rates. THE church’s golden jubilee booklet States, “Twenty-si 
tn tying approximately 141 broadcasts weekly, widely one is 
sa 4 of the Church of the Open Door. ... By Conservative estimate 
ato recent polls, 100, 000 listeners hear Dr. McGee's broadcast 
Sinsoutem California alone. 
| ranks to the growing popularity of reel-to-ree] tape recorders, a 
sjoenen field of getting the Word out was opened. A room at the church 
reset aside for persons desiring to bring their own equipment so they 


Mt 


¢ 


Stry included seven 
ue California and into 
Stations outside the 


\ 


: 


Dr. McGee also utilized the printed page. By 1965 a conservative 
‘imate was that at least 300,000 of Dr. McGee's books were in circula- 
tion. His booklets, as well as his books, were widely read. One Christmas 
Message, “He is Coming Again” was reprinted three times in two years. At 
Mepomnt, 14,000 copies had been distributed! ae 

he overhead projector, which McGee termed an “electric black- 
board,” and the slide projector made many of his messages fascinating ae 
'Ograsp. The largest and best screen in southern California (outside o' 
Cal theaters) was installed in the auditorium. Dr. McGee oe 
8. So cople have to pass a lot of churches and a lot of ca ae 
Boiss to have the biggest and best screen. : ae Sees an 
Of slides for his periodic evening “lustrated mi ; : 
et hereal churches, not everything C.O.D. did succeeded. aes 
; >, 1952 announced that two new projects — the Ie 93815 Main 
Street the Pico Rivera area and the Avalon Calvary Church at ea 
Boning ington — had not proven effective, S0 they 
a ra : F haps the 
1 of the Was used, but it did not catch on like rai eke radio. 
ac does not lend itself to expository 5 called 
: Creat Park Cemetery sponsored a series of TY. Deane on 
os of the West” with selected church services 


A great programming move is the formation 
of the Youth Choir in the 1950s. Under the 
direction of Old Fashioned Revival Hour 

soloist Beth Farum, it becomes a rallying 


point for young people. 


GETTING THE WORD OUT 


oa 


C.O.D. pastors have dedicated buses since 
Talbot's day. None do it with more 
enthusiasm than McGee. 


As Biola moves to La Mirada, some board 
members like Jake Eymann and Ray Myers 
— both of whom are former chairmen of the 

Church board of directors — focus on Biola, 
both men will continue to attend 

C.0.D. Church-Biola ties remain cordial 
though more distant. 


different Sundays. On March 9, 1952, C.O.D.’s morning Service Ha 
on that series. Dr. McGee also produced a program for a While i ay 
the studios of Channel 22. And in 1958 the church begana regular ed 


ley; mi 
series. sig 


During the summer of 1959, Biola moved to La Mirada. That fal, for 
the first time, classes met there instead of at the downtown location. At 
first the two downtown dorms were used to house students. Later, wile 
Dr. Cronk was pastor, Paul Goodman, a Biola board member ad 
entrepreneur, purchased the two towers on either side of the church and 
converted them into a hotel. The church leased five floors in the S? 
tower for their use. 

In October of 1959, a new position was created called ‘Administalt 
of Properties. ” William C.A. Nicholson, the son of Rev. William B Ne 
holson (“The Irish Evangelist” who preached at C.O.D. many times duns 
Dr. Torrey’ p; 


had 
caretaker and was on the board of directors at the time. After he passe 


Beginning December 6, 1959, the church took over that service. 


For more than forty years no major changes of the building had gS 


a —————————<—S rl nt ——‘OOOS™SOOSOS, = 
, @~a > @ gee £000 


1949-1970 


a 


Roger Arneberg, city attorney; McGee; 
Ralph Davis, building committee 
chairman; and John Gibson, Los Angeles 
city councilman break ground for C.O.D.s 
building expansion program. The 

beauty of the old front porch will be 
replaced by the ‘functionality of much- 
needed classroom space. 


= 
5] 


>| gE 
4 1949-1970 


McGee cuts the ribbon opening the remodeled 
sanctuary as dignitaries — the venerable 
Danny Rose in the center — look on. The 
new lighting, enlarged and more functional 
projection screen, and new padded theater- 
type seats bring the grand hall up to par with 
the best the 1960s have to offer. 


The children of the Church benefit most 
from the renovation — their crowded 
classrooms are now less taxed, and the 
new rooms are air conditioned. 


GETTING THE WORI YOUT 


McGee’ popular preaching and teaching 
style draws consistently large crowds to the 
remodeled church, so that the golden 
anniversary of the church in 1965 will also 
mark a golden era for the Church. 


Inspiring 
Dyons 


1949-1970 


o 


,| ee 


-Le 


Le: | 


E — —_ 


oe) oe) oe) | | 


=| oe) oe 
oz) 


—) = 


=| ow) 


=) 


om) 


GETTING THE WORD OUT 


David Isaac, member of the board of 
directors for thirteen years, dies suddenly. 
His memory is preserved in the gift of a 
new electronic carillon, donated by his 
wife, Hattie. 


f Ray had served as an intern under Dr. McGee while he was in Pasaden’ 


3 for the week was Dr. J. Oswald Sanders, general director of the 


| Summer Family Bible Conference. 


se two began in 1961, which involved the complete reno 
the Reeth The new dropped ceiling lowered the heightng af 
auditorium from eight stories to seven, and an entirely NeW Missig the 
replaced the earlier version, which went back some thirty years a 
history. New padded theater-type seats replaced the wooden seats Ont 
main floor and first balcony. The old seats remained in the second bal 
The remodeling also included new carpet in the aisles and a tile for 
between the seats, a new pulpit (which retained the sign attached to the 
back saying, “Sir, we would see Jesus” John 12:21)), a new organ console 
new railing, an updated public address system, and a new screen Which 
could be automatically lowered and raised. The white, bright auditory, 
was redecorated in blue and walnut wood. Mr. Don Yeider was chairman of 
the building committee. 
The remodeled sanctuary was dedicated on January 20, 1963, Dr 
Talbot, the former pastor, spoke and offered the dedicatory prayer. Dr 
McGee and Mr. Elmer Olson also spoke. 
As of February 1, 1961, Mr. Ted Nichols was the Minister of Music. 
An accomplished musician and professor of music at California State 
University at Los Angeles, Ted served until December of 1966. At that 
time, Gordon Hooker, who had faithfully served the church as pianistfor 
nearly forty years, retired. He was replaced by Rudy Atwood of Old 
Fashioned Revival Hour fame. 
The keynote speaker for the 1961 Missionary Conference was Ray 
Stedman, pastor of the Peninsula Bible Church in Palo Alto, California ” 


Chur 


The church bulletin for July 15, 1962 announced the coming of the 
Keswick Convention, designating it the “First Keswick Conference: 
(The church had had a Keswick Week in February of 1933.) The sped 


Inland Mission. This week of special meetings later was nam 


_ On July 7, 1963, a Maas-Rowe Symphonic Carillon was ceil 
during the morning service. The completely electronic carillon ors 
given in memory of David H. Isaac, a member of the board of dee 
from 1944-1957, by his wife, Hattie Isaac. te 7 

In January of 1965 two small apartments were built abo" the 
tase of the missionary courts in Glendale. These were ® a ta 
‘Miriam Worthington Memorial Units” in honor of Miss Wott 
eae missionary secretary who served the church andits ni 
or over fifteen years. ef é 
ome sixty-five was the Jubilee Year of the church. Lint! 
churches, nals and thanksgiving to God for the church POM ys! 
leaders near Bible colleges and seminaries, 4” 


Crowds continued to gather and the membership increase 


1949-1979 


istory of the church, speci: 

rot pare Ries Dr. McGee pacers Se i a 

“05 W : . ‘ nde 
agate dere ony we bat 
a should have ‘i a Bible conference and heen use 
ped Be rence eventuall bec peprm comerelce, 
f qphecy CO cle y became an annual west coast 
fie P congress: Other churches in southern California participated 
Fst round-robin conferences. Outside speakers, along with Dr. 
i rotated among the various churches during the week. Speakers 
prophecy conferences at C.0.D. included Dr. John F Walvoord, 
peste of Dallas Seminary, Dr. Merrill F Unger, Dr. Richard Seume, 
1 5 Dvight Pentecost, Dr. Herman Hoyt, Dr. William Culbertson, 

mel a NI ae Dr. Lehman Strauss, Dr. Ralph Keiper, 
inany other noteworthy men. 

Besides the prophecy conference, there were many other special 
gedkers. Reading the list of names is like reading a partial list of the hall of 
tne of Christian speakers. of the period: Dr. Billy Ordham, Dr. Walter L. 
Mis, Dr. Charles L. Feinberg, Dr. Cameron Townsend, Dr. Harry A. 
\msie, Dr, Donald Grey Barnhouse, Dr. John E MacArthur, Sr., Dr. Bob 
feve, Dr. John Brown, Dr. Wilbur M. Smith, Dr. S. Lewis Johnson, Dr. 
Vilam L. Carrol, Dr. M.R. DeHaan, Dr. Jack G. Mitchell, Dr. Homer 
ne Dr. Charles Woodbridge, Dr. Charles E. Fuller, Dr. J. Sidlow 
, et, Rey, George B. Duncan, Dr. J. Oswald Smith, Dr. Alexander 
oige, Rey, Eric Hutchings, Dr. Stanley Collins, and the list could go on. 


Church picnics are always highlighted by 
McGee’ arrival on the baseball diamond. He 
takes over as pitcher and impresses the people 
with his skills out of the pulpit. A good hitter 
and a fierce competitor, McGee ts nonetheless 
human —as recorded in this rare photo. 


Dirks, R 
Cranny Burnett. 


GETTING TH 


E WORD OUT 


growing “Thru the B 


retires to devote his en, 


John F. Walvoord, president of Dallas 
Theological Seminary, and Merrill F. 
Unger, professor of Old Testament 

at Dallas, are but two of the frequent 
visiting speakers from McGee's alma 
mater. Walter Wilson ( talking with 
McGee), a medical doctor from Kansas 
City turned preacher, is also a favorite of 
C.O.D. congregations. 


After twenty-one years as bastor, McGee 


vergies to his rapid 
thle” radio ministry. 


In 1969, at age 65, Dr. McGee informed the board he would by 
retiring the next year. The bulletin for August 23, 1970 contains Dr 
McGee's “swan song” to the congregation: 


My Swan Song 

There is a note of sadness which creeps into my mind as I approach the 
conclusion of my ministry as pastor of this great church. Thisis made doubly 
so because it marks the end of my ministry as pastor, also that it means 
leaving the multitude of friends we have in this church and those who attend 
here. 

You have been a source of help and encouragement down through the 
years when “the going was rough.” I am grateful to God for you. 

My prayer is that God will send to this church the best man — His man— 
to lead the church to greater heights than at any time inthe past 

It is not my intent to retire from the ministry. I want to remain active 


long as the Lord permits me. Here is my schedule for the fall. Pray formes 
I pray for you. 


Then followed his itinerary for September and October. ; 
August 30, 1970 was his last day in the pulpit as pastor, asad day fr 
many. The bulletin that day read: 


Appreciation Day for Dr. andMrs. McGee i... 
Today Dr. McGee retires as pastor. Our true appreciation for his minis 


will only be accounted in eternity. The activities of the day are but at 


Our love and thanksgiving for these twenty-one years of faithful serv" 


ape ee ert one years at C.0.D., Dr. McGee “got a 
»_ one midweek Thursday night Bible stud from seven'y 
as high as twenty-five eieWienie ene 


: : : hundred. When he left as pastor he was one 

sixty Tadio stations across the country. Though the attendance ba rel 

some (Biola’s move took the students away), large crowds still g2 

the Sunday Services, ined 
ter his retirement from the pastorate, Dr. McGee cont bast 


Thru the Bible” radio ministry j ‘fornia under 4 
munistry in Pasadena, California UNC’ 1965, 

Separate from th ats 2 nt that by *, 

nine hundred ity church. That Ministry grew to the point the word 


b F ver 
twenty-four egrentene were heard virtually all ov 


GROWING OLD 


1970-1978 


e fifty-five, people begin to experience the effects of old age 


y Oe dy is just not what it used to be. 

Bes the Church of the Open Door was fifty-five years old. The 

: e, withits corresponding decline, had been present to 

50 ei e, Now the aging process really began to show, 

ft Fine 1 Dt. McGee resigned, so did many of his Staff, including Dr. 
Cole, McGee's assistant pastor, who went with him to “Thru the 
*inPasadena. There were two notable exceptions, however. Dr. Paul 

nasand RU Al Hovey remained. Paul had grown up at C. O.D., gone off 

Dalas Seminary for his master of theology degree, and returned to be 

fe Christian education director under McGee. After McGee left, he 


a degree 


7 aqerence and gifts, he was well qualified to lead the church during this 

yeind ofits history. Al, a graduate of Moody Bible Institute, had been a 
7 (0D. missionary in Nigeria. His sweet spirit and gentle manner minis- 
feted to many individuals and helped the church through this transition, as 
vellas the next one between pastors Cronk and Cocoris. 

A search committee, under the leadership of Ralph Davis, went 
though the process of finding the sixth pastor, Dr. Malcolm Cronk (1914-). 

Malcolm Robert Cronk was born on September 7, 1914 in Fillmore, 
4 York. He grew up in western New York where he trusted Christ and 

tacallo the ministry. 

Asa young teenager Malcolm organized his first “Sunday School 
Cass by rounding up area children on Sunday afternoon and toting them off 
es schoolhouse where he preached to his captive aes “acne 
., attended Houghton Christian Academy and received his B.A. in 
= from, Houghton College. Later, he received a B.D. from ey 
ck nal Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois, the seminary associate 
oy ean ngelical Free Church. He also attended Biblical sauna) 
s City, but had to drop out because of the apes Ba oe 
tom Mudie three honorary doctorates were eee ee ae 
Shoo} Then eee Wheaton College, and the Californ: 

gy. 


tet Cronk served for a while as dean of students and later as 

ane SS0" of practical theology at Trinity, his ministry was always 

thingy Storing churches, He served a Wesleyan Church and ee 

bi oe Church in Grand Rapids, Michigan. While ne cand 
ot ye ed an became the first president of the Grand Rapi 


aie Bible and Music. He pastored the South Baptist oe in 

Bie ate was for sixteen years the pastor of the we 
lurch in Wheaton, Illinois. 

: ets Initial Teluctance, Dr. Cronk accepted the call aD, 

| whi are Church of the Open Door. He was installed on) naan 

| More devout Said, “You could not have found greater preac a oe 

™an of God than Dr. Malcolm Cronk. He has an ama7 


jwane the interim associate pastor. Given his background at C.0.D., his. 


Malcolm Cronk comes to pastor the Church 
on Hope Street after a highly acclaimed 
pastorate at Wheaton Bible Church. He is 
a member of the faculty at Trinity 
Evangelical Divinity School and pastor of 
Winnetka (Illinois) Bible Church when the 
call is extended. 


(a 


i t off to 

| Dirks grew up at C.OD., went off t 
ees Seminary for his masters degree in 
theology, returned as minister of Chnstian 
; der McGee, and now provides 


ation un : 
eeu) and leadership between the 


McGee and Ci 'ronk years. 


GROWING OLD 


ice, 

el ~ and good humor 
Cronk shows his winsome 

th from the beginning. 


97 


GROWING OLD 


Wilbur Morehead Smith, longtime Moody 
faculty member, original faculty member of 
Fuller Seminary, bibliophile, and 
masterful teacher of English Bible, ts a 
frequent speaker at the Church in the 
1960s and 1970s. His teaching of the mid- 
week service at the Church brings 
continuity to the pastorless months in the 
McGee-Cronk interim. 


Al Hovey, longtime C.O.D. missionary 
and visitation pastor under McGee, also 
brings continuity to the McGee-Cronk- 
Cocoris eras. His warm and 
understanding spirit is a ministry to 
thousands of members and friends, 


from God, not only as a powerful preacher, but as a teacher of the Word 
Letters of congratulations poured in from Christian leaders across 
country. Even President Richard M. Nixon, who in his youth had atten 
the church on a number of occasions, sent a letter of congratulations. 


_ Rey, Stanley Collins delivered th 
Smith, who had filled the pulpit much 
the congregation. The prayer of dedi 


chairman of the pulpit committee. Dr. Louis Talbot, the 
brought a Moving benediction. 


In 1971, Rey. Norman Allensworth became the official direct 
he had been running the ministry $” 


Jewish Department. Actual] 
of 1957, but Dr. Daniel Ree 
official director, After Dr. Ros 


e charge to the pastor and Dr. 
of the time since McGee a 
cation was offered by Ralph Da “(0 


Wilbut! 
left, chat 


former P# 


ce 


who was in his eighties at the times 


e died at age 102, the Jewish 


departme 


or of the 


May 
the 


at ol 


1970-1978 


e Open Door became inco 
pe sii Pelewshinaesar 
OE -olm Cronk hada pastor's heart. He was un: 

‘a desire Was to see the church be all it was Saas ae iriendly, 
P nfortunately, his tenure at C.O.D. was a period of de ie 
4 which was disheartening for him. Even though he s e for the 

shot pible Class on Tuesdays for downtown office workers i meee a 
ues staff an cae pega of evangelistic visitation a aes 

i IC, 
‘ 4 began to slip in attendance. There were many reasons for this 
for one thing, as church consultants poin’ 
sored a church for fifteen years, the sat earn e = : Re ps 

Cronk’s predecessor pastored C.O.D. for Seno ne 

anes : years! The 
-McGee combination was an exception to the rule, but then they 
wet —” not the rule. Imagine two pastors in thirty-eight years 
There was also the complete change of pulpit style. For thirty-ei 
the people had heard a folksy, Apo ath Sen eee 
teaching. Cronk was more of an inspirational, spiritual life speaker. 
he preached through books of the Bible, he was accused by some 
being an expositor, a charge he could never understand. 
There were other factors. Prior to Cronk’s coming, the church was 
Anglo in make up. Over the years, Los Angeles in general, and 
Los Angeles in particular, had become racially mixed. Cronk 
and actually sought the attendance of minorities, strongly 
was the biblical thing to do. The resulting integration caused 
ve. “White flight” was happening all over America. 
id Cronk was a poor administrator, that in his eyes the staff 
mg. The pastor, of course, felt he was sticking by his staffas 


t the name of the 


were victories and blessings along the way. People continued to 
d grow in the Lord. More remodeling was done. Between 1973 
Manuel J. Rosales & Associates rebuilt and restored the grand 


lly of 1974, a retired missionary named Herb Cassel, who had 
that a Spanish Department 


unity in Los Angeles. To 
who had beena church 


-<h Department full-time as 
y served the Spanish Dep The Spanish 


of the Church of the Open Door. 


Cronk’ staff in the early part of his 
pastorate: Paul Dirks, Cronk, Ed Rogers, 
Al Hovey, Jim Klubnik, Harold Carlson, 
Ted Nichols, Bob Litts, Ralph Scoville. 


Jose Ramirez pastors the Spanish ministry. 
He is a native of Guatemala and a 
graduate of CAMS Central American Bible 
Institute. He has been serving on the 
Church maintenance crew while teaching 
in another Hispanic church. Herb 

Cassel finds better use for his gifts at 
C.0.D. 


oatneShS tesa: on 5 $8) Bee: an aes See anon Se Rime ee Ss aon te 
; : SS ous: 3 


GROWING OLD 


a a = 


The executive board and Cronk have more 
than a few sessions of controversy over 
church policy and the issue of all staff 
members being part of a ruling elder 
board. Mark Neuenschwander, minister to 
young adults, adds fuel to the conflict with 
his passionately held views which are 
| strongly favored by the people he ministers 
| to directly. 


Department, which met in the Lower Auditorium, STEW to 359 
But decline in the church itself continued. Dr. Cronk beet, , 
vinced that at least a partial solution to the decline would he the > | 
ization of the board structure of the church. For many years the ee 
operated under four boards: (1) Directors in charge of ne uch hay ; 
Deacons overseeing the finances; (3) Elders responsible for as TY; (2) 
ters; and (4) an Executive Board which had final authority. The Tae . 
the first three boards, plus a few church officers, made up the ey atl 
board. Many began to feel there was needless duplication and Conside 
waste of time with this board structure. Table 

A committee consisting of Warren Olson, Roy Wallace, anq 
McDougall as chairman, was appointed by Dr. Cronk to analyze 
evaluate the organizational structure and make a recommendation for ane 
constitution. When their report was given to Dr. Cronk, he did not p 
it to the executive board feeling it would be divisive. After a lapse of about, 
year, he asked the committee to revise their report, recommending 4 
revision of the structure that would function better. 

The committee itself was divided between the extreme Positions ofan 
all lay board and a predominance of staff elders to give them the authority to 
effect policy as well as carry it out. A compromise proposal, calling fora 
board of elders restricting staff members to not more than 25 percent ofthe © 
total, and a transition proposal were hammered out. Cronk approved this 


plan with reservations since he was committed to all staff members being 
elders. 


nie, the church was without an assis; 
yea the new man to make the new sy 
ps ae din putting it together. So there 
be i f assistant pastor could be filled. Ed H: 


tant pastor, Sj 
» Since Dr. 
stem Work, he felt he 
Was another delay until 
a astings became the new 
1 pastor. 


9 7") involved in the process, an eldership plan 
; i a a smaller board consisting of lay a orcs Out 
icll Cé 


and s ce 
‘stem was the principle of unanimity; Tiere: Built into 

my, wo SYS Pass without a 
pe ys vote of those present. 
ik Neuenschwander, a staff member who had already tried to 
- vent an eldership structure among the college and young marrieds 

tomodel the Hastings plan to demonstrate how it would work. The 
jocaght on and appeared to be working well among these groups. 
Several members of the executive board, however, disapproved of the 
pr pan and fought its acceptance. Thus, when the idea of adopting the 
‘elfership plan for one trial year was presented to the board, there was 
sion. During the discussion, the motion was made that since the 
nin of this new plan was tantamount to revising the constitution, and 
that required a two-thirds vote, that this plan be accepted only if there 
atwo-thirds majority in favor. That seemed reasonable, so it passed. 
When the vote on the plan itself was taken, it fell short by one vote of 
Ur rewired two-thirds majority. At the next meeting Dr. Cronk resigned. 
" Within the congregation the eldership plan had become an issue. 
Way of the college-age young people and the young marrieds were 
med at the failure of the board to adopt the plan. By one estimate, 
be ty hundred of them left the church paar ee eg ie 

. Cronk’ last Sunday was June 25, 1978. Atter the everll , 
eception was held in Nicholeen Hall for the pastor and his wife. Sa 
a he became the senior pastor of the Camelback Bible Church in 
aise Valley, Arizona, just outside Phoenix. ee 
Atthis point in the cha history, it was approaching rene ete 


Sith anyone facing that phase of life, critical decisions needed fo De 


rey a4 6 Sani OS 4 
S eed ted 


snd 


“scene genie fs 


1970-197g 


Four Of the first six pastors of C.O.D. 

receive honorary doctorates from Wheaton 

oe Torrey, Philpott, Talbot, and 
ronk. 


l=) p=, a=) =) 7 


: Jae) ex) pe) | ee) EX) EX) 
= Y ff 


TRANSITION 


Ue ae RL, nasil - 


rads 


ge | aeNee 
en a person reaches age sixty-five he retires and mak 
{AJ transition to the new life-style that retirement brings. In ae 
S that means relocation to another climate. In all but a fa 
ans decline in physical strength. The body simply begins to wear 


by 1980 the sixty-five-year-old building which housed the 
> Open Door was simply wearing out. There were places in the 
the original 1915 electrical wiring and plumbing pipes were 
din need of replacement. It was into this setting of advancing 
t the church called its youngest pastor. 


bulence over eldership. 
constitution designated the senior pastor as the chairman of the 
rd. Without a pastor, the board was without a chairman. For a 
Henry Howell, who was the chairman of the board of 
as chairman of the executive board. Ray Killion was then 
chairman of the executive board until the coming of a new pastor. 
e the search committee looked for a senior pastor, the lay leaders 
of the oversight of the ministry and struggled with its future. 
secured to lead the ministry, two of whom were former C.O.D. 
s. Dr. Ed Murphy, who was teaching in the missions depart- 
ila, often filled the pulpit. Rev. Allen McAnlis, a returned 
from Iran and founder of Hospitality International, was 
das interim assistant pastor and directed the day-to-day operation 
ch, 

jaturday morning prayer meetings for the church were held. There 
eat deal of discussion concerning the future of the church. Should it 
mmtown Los Angeles? Should it move? Should the constitution be 
to provide for one board? What should be done, if anything, in light 
ent multiracial congregation? 

e minutes of a special session of the 
din part, 

considerable discussion it was moved 
‘Present location and make immediate p! ke 
Sive program of outreach, evangell 
that we should be flexible and sens! 


leadership on December 9, 


@ seventh pastor of the Church of the Open Door was Coole 


Cocoris (1939-). Mike was born on September 22, 1939 i aor 

When’ Florida. His Greek father and American mother were ands 

iii Was six years old, so he and his brother were reared by their 
r. 


Stanley Collins, a native of Glasgow, 
Scotland is first invited to speak at the 
Church by McGee. A frequent and popular 
guest in the pulpit, he now provides 
continuity in the interim between Cronk 
and Cocoris. 


v\ 


G. Michael Cocoris’s path crosses former 
pastors of the Church: he holds meetings 
in the church which was Talbots first 
pastorate, Paris, Texas; and McGee 
teaches him Bible as a visiting Dallas 
Seminary lecturer. 


QO 
pone | 
mx 
O 
= 
LL 
cdlce 
rea 


INTO ALL 


E 


Papas tie 


TRANSITION 


Lm : al =| 
Elder Colin McDougall leads in the prayer of 
dedication at the Cocoris installation; Mike 
and his wife, Judy, are upstaged by a cake 
which ts modeled after the Church building. 


Church, the charge to the congregation. Mr. Colin McDougall, cha 
the pastoral search committee, gave the dedicatory prayer, of 
A brochure prepared for the installation said, 


Like Torrey, Cocoris’s first love is to reach the souls of men: {j ; 
is an nate leader; like McGee, his method is Bible expe nbs, he 
Cronk, his vision is to reach a revitalized central city. And so, at thirty-nine 
just four years younger than Talbot — G. Michael Cocoris be @ ‘ 
seventh pastor of the Church of the Open Door. 


Mike and Dale went to work. First was the constitution revision, 4 
revision committee had been appointed just before Mike came, but as ci 
long-time board member said, “There has been a constitution Tevision 
committee off and on in the church since about 1952 and one has not 
reached the congregation yet! It will take at least two years.” By December 
the committee had a revision ready and at the annual meeting in January it 
was overwhelmingly adopted. It called for one board made up of eleven 
Elders. Each of the nine lay elders was to be over a different department of 4 
the church. The senior pastor and assistant pastor completed the Board, 

This new board faced growing challenges, one of which was the ; 
building. Deferred maintenance had been practiced for years. Muchrepair 
and remodeling needed to be done. The ninth floor was redone to attract 4 
and accommodate youth. The lower auditorium was remodeled and : 
renamed Talbot Chapel after the previous pastor. The cost was $100,0 000, 
which was raised by the time the project was completed. The lowerlevelof 
classrooms was also refurbished and the main auditorium painted. 
needed improvements didn’t attract the needed people. 


three classes each week, but they did not returm to the church on 
Cocoris also expanded the radio ministry. When he came, 
day broadcast was a fifteen-minute program on only one station: He 
engaged Al Sanders of Ambassador Advertising Agency to edit his Sunday 4 
messages and produce a thirty-minute daily broadcast. Then h releasedit j 
in other cities. By 1984, THE OPEN DOOR radio broadcast was ball 
aired on eight stations around the country, People, especially in $0! But 
California, responded, writing in by the hundreds for the study notes: 
not many attended the church. ris 
Though the church had had a tape ministry before, when es. 
became the pastor in 1979, a new cassette tape department was Spy 
teproducing his messages as well as those of the special spe 0) 
1984, this department, headed by Jack Wilson, was producing over > 
tapes a year, She 


Mrs. Victoria Comils retired as organist on September 28, ie 


me the organist in 1950! For thirty : 
pl De served as church organist Years she faithfully and 


vompet - ictries of the church w : 
soe ere growing, but the church itself was 


gio was expanding; tapes were selling: the Bi 

wee also doing well. One of the icici pies during the 

a een oe in the February 1981 igen a 
D Ss) . le 

Open Paper, summarizes what happen ah 


With the new church constitution, the Spanish min; 
the supervision of the Christian Raticaton Eker Cola ake placed under 
sion of the status of the Spanish Dept. was be rai i ae Discus- 
November 18 and has resulted in the birth of a new church e Elders on 
Bell. We asa church family had the great privilege on Janus glesia Biblica de 
commission four Elders and Pastor Ramirez. Their aoe Grea and 

ce Sunday 


morning, January 11, had an attendance of 339. Praise God 


ot ae t 


resi ed as director of Church picnics are a thread of fun and 
Norman Allensworth gn d f fellowship which span the lifetime of the 
a converte Jewfrom ‘Church on Hope Street. 


director in March of 


he gen ose of1981, Rev 
gland es Messianic Fellowship. Joseph Caplan, 
182. Here a student at Talbot Seminary, became 
mained in that position until 1985. 
d of a Bible training school 


e eueriee:. ; 
ce Cocoris was in seminary, he conceive 
which “simply” taught the basics of the Bible: Bible doctnne, 

le teaching. When he 


Bible Si 
itvey, Bible history, Bible geography, Bibl 
— SS —| 1¢ 


TRANSITION 


The 1980s change the neighborhood 
around the Church still more; skyscrapers 
surround the now dwarfed Hope Street 
building which was once the tallest in the 
city. Still, the clear message goes out, 
Jesus saves. 


entered evangelism, the dream died. Now as a pastor, the dream : 
revived. : Was 
In 1982 Cocoris, the evangelist/educator like Torrey before p: 
established the Torrey Bible Institute, named after the founder him, 
church and the architect of the standard Bible institute curricyy Of the 
staff of the church became the teachers of the courses in the ingtiny 
Many from other churches came to the institute for classes, but not tute, 
of those attended the church. Many 
Slowly, Cocoris began to realize that C.O.D., like many other an 
town churches across America, was not going to be able to overcomeall the { 
forces against it. Board members, church members, and staff m 
had concluded that before him. But his heart was planted in downtown Lo, 
Angeles and that was where he wanted to stay. j 
At first it was felt that if something could be done to enhance the 
downtown facility perhaps the church could still survive in that location. On 
March 22, 1982 C.0.D. entered into an agreement with Norris, Beggs and 


Simpson. The purpose of this agreement was to see about the possibility of 


a developer erecting a new building on the Hope Street site which would 
include new facilities for the church as well as office space. It was con- 
cluded, however, that such a proposal was not financially feasible fora ~ 
developer. 

With this new information, Cocoris conceded that the possibility of — 
relocation should be looked into at least to get the facts. A respected and ~ 
prestigious developer, Ratkovich and Bowers, Inc., wanted to purchase the 
property, but the church leaders insisted that a suitable site needed tobe ~ 
found first. They did, however, sign an agreement that they would alow — 
Ratkovich and Bowers, Inc. to exclusively represent the church for on ~ 
year. The search for an alternate location began. The first site considered 
was only two blocks away! Next the Wilshire corridor was considered. 

As the church tried to think through the issues involved 
consultation with an architect, it was decided that the ultimate church 
needed to have a twenty-five hundred seat auditorium. To provide 
and educational space for that many automatically meant tw 
land. To get that size of parcel meant moving further out. At 
Cocoris couldn’t conceive of going any further away than Glendale. 
and others, that was as far away from the downtown location 
willing to consider. But the reality was that a feasible twenty-a 
not be obtained that close to downtown Los Angeles. 

In order to determine where to go and what to do next 
relocation committee was appointed on March 29, 1983, consistne 


Killion, chairman, Henry Howell, Colin McDougall, and Pastors Come : 
and Wolery, Before long, over one hundred pieces of property a | 
examined. In the process it was discovered that there were five pier? 
growth areas in southern California. That led to the consideration us to 
of property in Diamond Bar and Landauer and Associates were 


A Wf 


a= 


ac a aaa aR i 


| = 
i t= (= 


eS, SS — ON 


1978-1985 


Clyde Cook, former C.O.D, missionary 
and president of Biola University, presents 
an honorary doctor of divinity degree to 
Cocoris. It is May 1984. 


The final staff on Hope Street: Dick 
Anderson, Marc Billigmeier, Dale Wolery, 
Cocoris, Al Hovey, Tom Vangeison. 


111 


TRANSITION 


The board of elders who are making the 
important and sometimes difficult 
decisions surrounding the sale of the Hope 
Street property and the move to Glendora. 
Standing: Erv Jensen, Ben Reese, Murray 
McDougall, Don Smith, Bob Grondahl, 
Ray Killion, Paul Terry, Colin 
McDougall, Al Holt. Seated: Dale Wolery, 
Cocoris. 


To the end of Hope Street, Acorn Lodge 
remains an out-of-the-city retreat for the 
Church. The new site in Glendora will 
brovide this atmosphere without additional 
travel. 


raisal on the Hope Street property. 
do me meantime, on May 11, 1983, Ratkovich and Bowers, Inc. ‘4 
a purchase sale agreement with Great Western Hotels, the owners of 
two towers on either side of the church. That put the church at a decisiy 
disadvantage, for now a developer controlled parcels on either side of : 
church’s mere 19, 716 square feet of ground. No other developer woulg dare 
purchase such a small piece of property. 

What was the church to do? Whatever it did, it had only thirty days ty 
decide. One possibility was to sell to the developer at his price. He wa 4 
talking about giving a price higher than the appraisal, but had refused to put 
it on paper. Or, they could do the unthinkable and exercise their right of first 
refusal, which meant assuming the terms of the purchase sale agreement 
between Ratkovich and Bowers, Inc. and Great Western Hotels, That 
called for an immediate deposit of $75,000 into escrow, $25,000 of which 
was nonrefundable. 

The attomey the church had used for years in legal matters said, “This 
one is over my head; you need a real estate attomey who specializes in 
downtown property.” Thus, Charles Thornton of Paul, Hastings, Janofsky 
and Walker was hired to advise the church. 

In one long agonizing relocation committee meeting it was decided to 
recommend to the elders that the church exercise its right of first refusal, 
On June 14 the elders unanimously adopted that recommendation. The 
$75,000 was transferred from limited church reserves to escrow. 

Now the developer had to deal forthrightly with the church. What the 
church leaders had suspected became evident — that the developer was 
not going to give the kind of price he was talking about giving. He finally 
offered on paper a price considerably less than the appraised valu. 
Negotiations, therefore, with Ratkovich and Bowers, Inc. were term — 
nated. 

That created another crisis. By assuming the right of first refusal the 
church was now obligated to make a payment of $100,000, which it didnot 
have, by November 15, 1983. If Ratkovich and Bowers had purchased the 
combined properties from the church they would have made that paymeat ‘ 
to the hotel owner. But with them out of the picture, and the church holdns 
the purchase sale agreement, the church was legally bound to perform. 

What was the church to do? Obviously, the only thing to do this Le 
was find another buyer. But how? The legal entanglements were we 
pounded. To put the church on the open market would be time-cons 
time ran the church did not have. ‘ F 

uer Associates, Inc., the com engaged for the 4 
agreed to orchestrate a creative Tee Tea erereny the ee 
ee is be put on the open market and yet a qualified Ba nding 
F Sixty-one page offering describing the property and m potent 
egal documents was sent to over one hundred selected, qualified, days 1? 
Purchasers. They were given until August 31, 1983, about 


— ee eee 
) 1978-1985 


, , written offer. 

pmit a ering the fact that the Hope Street property was considered by 

be one of the choicest sites for business development west of the 

; ae i River, everyone involved assumed many offers would be 
peel But by 5:00 P.M., August 31, 1983, only one offer had been 
Ea ait ws STE mi ae ae pubaaced value! 
4 the very Jas psd » WiU) Only one person left i 
: y ree resentative of Mitsui Fudosan (U.S.A.) Inc. delivered ae 
jer which Was for considerably more than the other offer. Details 
j - needed to be negotiated. : 
Feeling confident that this buyer would consummate the deal and that 
“peDiamond Bar piece would also probably materialize, the elders called a 
~ empregational meeting for October 23, 1983. A special bulletin for that 
- eeting included this message from the pastor: 


Dear C.0.D. Member: 

This is an historic meeting. The Church of the Open Door has stood on 
Hope Street since 1915. Today we are considering relocation. 

The Elders have prayed and worked for many months to bring us to this 
day, We have consciously sought the Lord’s wisdom throughout the process. 
It seems to us that the Lord has granted a spirit of unity to our congregation 
which has prevailed throughout the discussion. As we come to today’s 
meeting, it is our prayer that as a congregation we will maintain the unity of 
the Spirit in the bond of peace that the Lord has given us. 

The object of this meeting is not to determine the will of the majority, but 
rather to make the wisest decision we canin the will of God for His glory. We 
are not seeking what is best for us as individuals; we are seeking what is best 
for us as a congregation. We are not seeking to glorify ourselves; we are 
seeking to glorify Jesus Christ. If we approach this historic decision with such 
pre attitude, God will surely grant us the wisdom that He promised in 

1:5. 

As I have said before, it is not imperative that we move or stay. It is 
absolutely essential, though, that we love one another. With that in mind, let 
us conduct the Lord’s business in the spirit of the Lord to bring glory to Him. 


Your pastor, 
G. Michael Cocoris 


Inthe back of that same bulletin was a prayer of Dr. Talbot: 


SHOES TO MATCH THE ROAD 
oa” ae a be iron and brass; and as thy days, So shall thy strength be 
OUR GRACIO dto be great 
: US FATHER, we thank Thee that we donot need to 
thor hty to come into Thy presence, and we come grateful for this ened 
how - wes us of strength to meet responsibilities and carry trials no matte 


great they may be. 
me find days that carry more tears, SOrrows, and heartaches than a 


Year beside, help us to remember that Thou has given to us for that 


/ 


My THE GOSPEL 


= 


TRANSITION 


116 


>> 


1985 Bruce Boehner. All rights reserved 


\ 
Hccdeii)() 


Ay Hai i 


anil H 


edie Bhan 


alt net 
ihm 
Wit 


f 
lalh i 


— 


wa 
cd a 


a 


(UU at ee 


Ae a 
cad 


et 
Tre 


a 


ry 
athe mS 


masse eee 


Tl) bee 
o . 
yo hdtad 

ate eee 

ane NS 


memos oo 
es am 


and strength, the like of which we shall not kn 
ike a range of mountains are our days. Sous ae Seer 
Y eaks, others like low valleys. Stand out like 


me hank Thee for an all-inclusive assurance of Strength. Hel 
ay of Thy promise when pressures come from every sid Sea 
tfhome duties, of business relationships, of great decisions, ee 
Weare insufficient for these things, but no matter how difficult th 
ay be, Thou hast promised us shoes suited to the pathway our f ae 
even though it requires shoes of iron and brass. Hel stains 
fatorously this day by the strength Thou does provide. Oe 
Inthe Name of our wonderful Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. 
Amen. 
Louis T. Talbot 


Aftera basic presentation of the situation and a time for i 
of those members present voted to sell the Hope Steet ae 
Then the bottom fell out of the entire arrangement. oe 
The Diamond Bar site did not work out and the ‘teat isi 
per promising t 

buy the Hope Street property backed out of already agreed Re eae 
farther complicate matters, the church now had a contract with the hotel 
which called for substantial outlays of money. 


st, they obtained a 
perative efforts of 


Pay 
fe, , the hotel general manager, partner and corporate presi- 
font ied Ho; the church to stay on course and once again market the 
ithe Street property. This time the Lord provided another 
mace the au) Lincoln Property Company of Dallas, Texas, to 
‘Wo! The perty ... and at a much higher price than either of the 
fog church was given one of the highest prices ever paid per 


f : 
°r land in downtown Los Angeles. 


The : 
‘ ee ation committee again went to work. Fir 
Good Ment with Great Western Hotels. The coo! 
€nab| 


Associate Pastor Dale O. Wolery signs the 
historic agreement with Lincoln Property 
Company on January 4, 1984. The sale 
will be consummated in 1985. 


TRANSITION 


The forty-acre new home of the Church of 
the Open Door is in a beautiful foothill 
setting and features classrooms, a 
gymnasium which will be the temporary 
auditorium, a swimming pool, dormitory, 
and football field. A master plan will 
weave the existing buildings into a Church 
campus with facilities for all ages. 


ee z be ~~ a a 


On December 28, 1983, the elders unanimously voted to sell the 
Hope Street property to Lincoln Property Company of Dallas, Texas. The 
agreement was signed on behalf of the church by Ray Killion and Dale 
Wolery on January 4, 1984. 

The same Christian broker, Roy Bennett, who brought this developer 
to the church Suggested that the church look at the Hillside Campus of 
Azusa Pacific University in Glendora. This forty-acre site included a gym, 4 
football field, a swimming pool, a dorm, and several other buildings ina 
Pastoral setting. After negotiations, an agreement was entered into by the 
church and the university. 

Of all the locations and sites considered by the relocation committee, 
the Glendora site had by far the most advantages. It was readily access! 
by three freeways: the Foothill F reeway (210); the San Gabriel Rive 
Freeway (605), and the Orange Freeway (57). The demographics indica! 


Furthermore, the property had existing buildings, making inte™ 


¥ 


Doth 


ng ynecessary" That factor alone would sa 
is another possible complications. On a sue church thousand 
i as wendy off the tax rolls. Other desirable locati that, the Glen fe, 
se" vanted had been unobtainable because tions the church had 
so tax law greatly limiting property taxes ( of Proposition 13, a 
por y which had forced city governments t and thus limiting citi ’ 
taken off the tax rolls. 0 refuse to have any ae 
The setting of the Glendora site could not ha’ 
mountainside location, one could see the a been more beautiful 
“gestion ad majestic hills in the other. Flowers d an Gabriel Valley in one 
“irds could be heard instead of freeway traffic ee the landscape 
siesaway. The property was fice aretreat in th Be ch was less than an 
Inthe meantime, the ministry continued 1 eS 
qurch. People were getting saved, taught, an any the historic downtown 
faUniversity conferred the honorary doctor of pec ee i TE 
(ooris. At the annual Missions Co: ya of divinity degree on iResion 
caplesand one single woman were commis aoe 4 October of 1984, two 
. The seventieth year on Hope Street, 1985 ae the mission field. 
Open Door preparing for a aRieatoln , began with the Church of 
Alletnesday night Bible study and e suburbs and new horizons. 
sartedin Glend y and an early Sunday moming service were 
lendora. Perhaps, as 0! ig service were 
come! , as one observer remarked, the bestis yet to 
Formore years than m 
ost can r 
then Door has been a picture of ie ane r, the logo of the Church of the 
wC.0.D.: bi rch resting on a Bible. 
uilt on the Book poi . That sums 
anes all over th , proclaiming the Book, and sending missi 
the Word e world to do the same. This church ee 
=A tothe world, and by God's grace thr ch was created to serve 
: €non Hope Street that is exactly what ae its tee Se 


CNGats 


The Relocation 


Colin McDouge 


Ray Killion, H 


Committee in Glendora: 
all, Dale Wolery, Cocoris, 
enry He owell. 


119 


TRANSITION 


call 


A new fellowship hall which will be the 
focal point of the new Church campus will 
be built just to the right of the goalpost; the 

temporary auditorium/gymnasium ts in 

the background. 


1978-1995 


\ Y_fFicons LEARNED ON Hoe Steer 


the Church of the Open Door Sustained an 
seventy ee ding ministry on Hope Street in downtown Los 
apd often it were the reasons for its success in ministry? What 
( peels. longevity even after every other church in downtown Los 
L ior disbanded, dwindled to only a faithful few, or simply failed? 
mov a be learned from the Hope Street experience? 
a ingredients go to make up a tasty dish, so many factors _ 
ae dsome minor — contributed to the overall impact of C.0, D. 
the very beginning, powerful personalities with great gifts for 
ire occupied the C.0. D. pulpit. All of its seven pastors had large 
> cyaly effective ministries before coming to lead the church. Dr. 
y was one of the greatest evangelists in the history of Chris- 
, John McNeill had a world-wide ministry of evangelism as well 
successful pastorates. Dr. P. W. Philpott pastored one church for 
than twenty-five years, of which it could be said: “For twenty-five 
has never been a week that souls have not been won to Christ,” 
his brief tenure at C.O.D., the midweek service became one of the 
n America. Similar things could be added concerning their suc- 


effective 


‘Music was also an important part of the C.O.D. ministry. Professor 
dge, one of the first ministers of music, set a high standard for 
excellence, and other gifted men followed. oe 
strong was the platform ministry of the church that it is not too 
say that at times the Church of the Open Door was more like a 
nce center than a church. 
other major factor was clearly defined and delineated purposes. Dr. 
believed the church should be built on four great truths: the 
yofScripture, the urgency of evangelism, the imperative of prayer, 
Outreach of missions. Thus, from its inception C.O.D. was an 
tic, Bible-teaching, missions-minded church. Each Sue 
Was committed to this philosophy of ministry. Naturally, peters 
“Were attracted and became involved or they were born and be 
: ee atmosphere. These clearly defined purposes prevaile 

Mt the life of the Church on Hope Street. 
: os Winning football team is more than a talented cree 
FD Bittog, 4: MCh is more than a gifted pastor with a clearly ah 
q a ‘ undreds and even thousands of faithful workers contribute 
| sin teachers, officers and aids, ushers, technicians, ane ae 
. "ated by eect served. Most of these laborers and lea 
7, A’ tian Endeavor program. i 

Di er SUaly large number of the workers at the Church of ie see 

we tcaton Fpesually long time. Seven pastors in oven fae 

Steen yen. “US longevity. Dr. Talbot pastored the churc brat 
® followed by Dr. J. Vernon McGee for twenty-on®- 


ir members, 
eam.” Board members, staff members, choir m ; 


a 


Dr. Torrey believed the 
church should be built ae 
Sour great truths: the 
authonty of Scripture, the 
urgency of evangelism, the 
imperative of prayer, and the 
outreach of missions. 


LESSONS LEARNED ON HOPE STREET ‘~ 


that is only the beginning. Many whose service to the Chur, ch 
several decades have been cited in the pages of this book. SPatneg 
The last year on Hope Street witnessed other Outstanding é 
longevity. In 1985, Mrs. Margaret Trowbridge Friant Marked fift ; SES of 
singing in the Church choir; Earl Hunter had been Operating the r Het of 
for over forty-five years; Gertrude Howell had logged almost fifty ie 
service in various capacities in the Christian education department. z of 
Grondahl had served at least ene ae ; the same area; Cates 
Wilson had been singing, especially as a soloist, for over thirty-fiy 
ee OBHEs os pote ued Space would fail to record the years of service of men ike Range 
was not a self-centere Bob Grondahl, Henry Howell, Ray Killion, James Kitabjian, Ben Reese, and 
social club. The focus aS Tack Wilson, who served on boards and committees through the final year 
always on helping and on Hope Street. A host of faithful women were also still Serving after 
mimistenng to others. decades, among whom are Alice Hunter, Eleanor Kitabjian, Eva Larson, 
Ellen Setness, and Mary Sunukjian. 

Radio played a significant part in the growth and Maintenance of the 
Church's ministry. The first pastor utilized the infant industry toa degree, 
Later, the Church launched a regular broadcast which was expanded under 
Talbot and McGee and continued throughout the ministry on Hope Street 

The printed page was also used. Most of the seven pastors were 
authors of books. All wrote booklets and articles which were widely 
distributed. 

There is no doubt that missions was a modeling and motivating force 
at the Church. Eleven of the eighty-six charter members became mission- 
aries. Hundreds of others left the hallowed halls on Hope Street to go into 
the highways and byways of the world. After seventy years, over three 
hundred had been sent out and supported by this assembly, 

A case could be made that the Church of the Open Door was able to 
Maintain its ministry in downtown Los Angeles long after the other strong 
works failed or left because of missions. In the closing years, those 
attending the services could not sustain the budget. God supplied the 
Mmatenal need through gifts from former members who were no longer 
attending. Many of these named the Church in their wills. Without a doubt, 
missions was a major motivation for those gifts. Nor is there any doubt that 
without those gifts the Church would have been forced to leave long before 
it did. The Church on Hope Street was not a self-centered social club. The 
focus was always on helping and ministering to others. ed 

Surely another major consideration is the thousands of unrecord 
and unsung deeds done by thousands of Church members and re A 
attenders through the years. In December 1984, the Church sentalettet e 

its members explaining its financial need. One member showed the a 
Mr. Burton Michaelson, who responded with a check and a letter W 
read in part: 


A friend of mine sent mea copy of your letter and I wanted to respond 
this small gift. 


when J was a small boy of two years, my father died. 

; Meath three small children, ages four years, two ea re 
was She was unable to work and take care of her three small children si 
ea d for welfare and was told she could not get help as she hada aia 
sreacait land in North Hollywood and you could not own land unless you 
iS ‘onit. Being depression times, there was no buyer for this vacant land so 
rhemen of the Church of the Open Door (both my parents were members of 
sat church) gathered all the used building materials they could, bought what 
they needed tO and built us a two room house on our land, 

[lived in that house until I left to get married in 1950 and have always 


remembered what God had provided for us through a few obedient men. 


One final factor must be noted. God honors those who honor Him 
me Chrchof the Open Door honored God by being faithful in seeking the 
js, teaching the Word, and sending out missionaries, and God honored 
that faithfulness. In the final analysis, that’s the lesson learned from seventy 
years 0 Hope Street: God did it! Great is the Lord and greatly to be 


praised. 
- 


FINALWALK | 


q 


: a... 


a Y, ; 
\ GR os 
aN 


ase 


, 


— 
vias © 


A FINAL WALK DOWN HOPESTREET 


Times photo 


lurch Blaze 
Licks Mortgage 


Pastor Touches Off 
Fire to Show Debt 
of $700,000 Paig 


There was a fire Yesterday at 
the Church of the Open Door, 
but no one seemed a bit alarmed 
least of all the pastor, Rev, Louis 
T. Talbot, who touched off the 
blaze for a special celebration— 
the burning of a $700,000 mort. 
gage. 
Before more than 4200 Persons 
assembled at morning Services 
the minister destroyed the mort. 
gage papers in a tin receptacle 
placed before the altar, the 
flames licking high in the air as 
he recalled how funds were 
raised to pay off the debt, 
DAY OF REJOICING 
“Our hearts are truly singing 
with thanksgiving as we come 
to this day of rejoicing,” he said, 
“when we can stop and render 
thanks to God, Who hath caused 
us to triumph in a glorious vic 
tory over the forces that seem 
ingly were closing in upon us. 
Rey. Mr, Talbot disclosed that 
the church indebtedness now is 
but $188,000 and that a campaign 
already has been launched to 
raise a fund with which to pay 
off that amount within the next 
few months. 


MAY HEAD INSTITUTE 

The pastor announced at the 
close of his sermon that he ae 
been selected by the board : 
directors of Bible Institute on 
assume the presidency of ae W. 
ganization when Dr. | 
Rood resigns the post oer A 
to take over leadership 5 
World Fundamental Chris 
Association. 


”™ 


. his 


i] 
< 


sao ae 
- abe Geren 7 


~g8a¥ Ge 3ss-s-: $2.45 38 g a 7o58, yn e 


(c 


A FINAL WALK DOWN HOPE STREET 


na Be 


A group from Ambassador C.E. enjoys a 
picnic at MacArthur Park. Its July 29, 
1945, and the war will soon be over, 


The chief of the Chimbus tribe in New 
Guinea allows Talbot to inspect his 
headdress, which contains plumes from the 
beautiful bird of paradise. Not having any 
such plumage to display, Talbot removes 
his false teeth and shows them to the chief 


are e 


The Businesswomens Prayer Fellowship 
meets regularly during the 1930s. 


The street ts always crowded, but you can 
spot Talbot, can’t you ? 


=J13 1 


A FINAL WALK DOWN HOPE STREET 


Lidilll 


. 


132 


McGee has always had a following! 


What are Dave Isaac and the board of 
directors up to while McGee is in the 
mountains? 


A FINAL WALK DOWN HOPE STREET 


an 


A FINAL WALK DOWN Hort STREET 


Another great Church picnic. 

Louie Cantelmo awards Linda 
Paterson (Dyk) a prize at the Good Old 
Fashioned Family Outing. 


Ralph Scoville has been around since the 
beginning, but this is the first time he wins 
@ bottle of English Leather cologne. 


His People is a singi 
a new musical ty 
world of the ’71 


N& Broup which brings 
message to the troubled 


4137 


A FINAL WALK DOWN Hope STREET “~ 


The young Cocoris loves to teach at Bible 
conferences in the mountains. Did McGee 
teach him that at Dallas? 


Colin McDougall leads an elders’ retreat 
at Biola; goals are set for the Church. 


For seventy years its been Bible teaching, missions, evangelism 


-. and fellowship 


IMPORTANT DATES IN THE H 
IS 
THE CHURCH OF THE OPEN DO 


1901. Classes begin in Lyman Stewart's newly. ganized “ 
Prichard as president. Worganized “Los Angeles Bible Institute” 


April 16, 1906. Seven young men meet with “Daddy” i i i 
soulwinning in the first meeting of the famed Tishernens ch ee mes 
Fall, 1907. “Mother” 
Church. 


February 25, 1908. The Bible Institute of Los Angeles (later called Biola) i c 

7 . led Biola) is founded with L 
Stewart as president, A.B. Prichard as vice president, TC ‘ yman 
Blackstone as dean. > TC. Horton as superintendent, and WE. 


with A.B. 


Horton forms the Lyceum Club for young women at Immanuel Presbyterian 


March 10, 1908. The new school holds its first classes at 260-264 S i i 
Angeles. The first student body numbers thirty-five. aed 


1912. R.A. Torrey becomes dean of the Bible Institute of Los Angeles. 


June 12,1912. The groundbreaking ceremony is held for the new site of Biola and the Church of 
the Open Door on South Hope Street. 


May 31, 1913. The comerstone of the new building is set in place in a special ceremony. 


April 4, 1915. The magnificent church auditorium is dedicated. The special speaker for the 
occasion is W.B. Riley, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Minneapolis. 


September 3, 1915. Eighty-six people gather to sign the constitution and bylaws of the new 
church. R.A. Torrey is unanimously elected as pastor. T.C. Hortonis elected assistant pastor. 

Fall, 1916. Professor J.B. Trowbridge becomes head of the Institute's music department and 
director of music for C.O.D. 

Early 1920. A mortgage-burning ceremony celebrates the payment in full of the $500,000 debt 
incurred in the construction of the building. 

1922. The World Fundamentalist Conference meets at C.0.D. The speakers include many of the 
leading names in early fundamentalism. 

1922. Station KTBI, the radio voice of Biola, goes on the air for the first time. 


September 28, 1923. Lyman Stewart dies at 83 years of age. 

June 22,1924. Torrey, now 68 years old, preaches his farewell message at C.0.D. 

1925. “Daddy” Horton retires as associate pastor of C.O.D. and superintendent of Biola. 
December 22, 1926, The Scotsman John McNeill is called as the second pastor of C.0.D. by a 


ae i the north tower for the first 
December 31, 1926. Gordon Hooker plays the Meneely chimes atop the north tower fo: 
time. For the Re he will play them three times daily and on Sunday, an incredible record of 
faithful service. 
January 1, 1927, ‘The Church of the Open Door is incorporated. nee 
Fall, 1927 The highly controversial book, Peter, The Fisherman Philosopher, is ante aie 
MacInnis who has weeded Torrey as dean of Biola. The book touches off a storm of pro’ 
fundamentalist leaders that almost ruins Biola financially 


February 6, 1928. MacInnis tenders his resignation to the Biola board in an attempt to quiet the 


143 


. ination is refused. 
criticism the school is receiving about his book. The ee eee 


i i C.0.D. 
April, 1928. The famous McNeill controversy arises at C.O. a 
October 7, 1928. McNeill resigns the pastorate of C.O.D. to return to En; ! 
October 26, 1928. R.A. Torrey dies. 


: ei ignation as dean of the Bible Institute. After a bitter 
N ber, 1928. MacInnis resubmits his resigna : I i 
ieee the Biola board votes 6-4 to accept it. The board members voting against the motion resign, 


October 6, 1929. Peter W. Philpott becomes the third pastor of the coc of the Open Door. 
October 16, 1931. After a brief but very fruitful pastorate, Philpott resigns Genes reasons, 
October 28, 1931. The C.0.D. congregation extends a call to Australian Louis Talbot to fill the 
pulpit for Cece He accepts the pastorate by telegram on October 31. 

November, 1932. Talbot is appointed acting president of Biola. 

April 17, 1933. John McNeill, second pastor of C.O.D., dies. 

May 18, 1933. The C.0.D. congregation agrees to purchase the Church auditorium from Biola. 


July 16, 1933. After an incredible fund raising effort, the Church reaches its goal of $25,000 to 
make the down payment on the purchase of the Church auditorium. 


February, 1935. After an evening service, nearly 3,000 people gather outside the church as the 
huge “Jesus Saves” sign is lighted for the first time. Later, a matching sign is added to the other 
dormitory tower. 


1938. Facing financial disaster, Biola’s board agrees to file for bankruptcy before Talbot rescues the 
school. 


September 15-22, 1940. C.O.D. celebrates its Silver Anniversary. 
November, 1944. Talbot submits his resignation as pastor of C.0.D. At first itis accepted, but the 


Church changes its mind and asks him to remain, which he does for four more years. 


December 26, 1948. After accepting Talbot's second resignation as pastor, C.O.D. honors him 
with farewell services. 


1952. Talbot Seminary is named in Talbot's honor. 
January 1,1949. J. Vernon McGee becomes the fifth pastor of C.O,D. 


September 20, 1950. McGee introduces the first “Thru 
church. 


Fall, 1955. The midweek service i 
largest midweek service in America, 


Summer, 1959. 


the Bible in a Year” program to the 


iS changed from Wednesday to Thursday night, becoming the 


June 20, 1971. Malcolm Cronk is installed as the 


July, 1974. Herb Cassel, a retired missionary to Guatemala 

RE sur ) , Tequests that a Spanish Department 
be formed to minister to the large Hispanic community in Los Angeles, Rey. ie Rane a inted 
pastor of the department, which rows to 352 members. é ie 


January 22, 1976. Louis Talbot dies, 
June 25, 1978. Cronk preaches his last Sermon as pastor of C.0. D. 


sixth pastor of C, O.D. 


ecember, 1978. In a special session, the Church 


Church at its downtown location. leadership votes unanimously to keep the 


tember 1, 1979. G. Michael Cocoris assumes th ‘ 
eal the youneest! ante Cheers esa = pastorate of C.0.D. He is the seventh 


ale O. Wolery is named assistant pastor. 

tember 9, 1979. Pastor Cocoris is officially install ices in whi re 

Sne bee i Jo ae sie ly led at services in which Dr. John F Walvoord 
1982. Pastor Cocoris establishes the Torrey Bible Institute. 


March 29, 1983. A relocation committee consisting of Ray Killion, Henry How i 
4 . ; ) Il, Coli 
McDougall and pastors Cocoris and Worley is appointed to consider a new site for the Church — 


October 23, 1983. The Church’s elders calla historic congregational meetin; i 
ines the property on Hope Street. g meeting, at which the Church 


January 4, 1984. Ray Killion and Pastor Wolery sign an agreement to sell the Hope Street 
property to Lincoln Property Company of Dallas, Texas. ie : 


June 12, 1984. The Church signs the agreement to purchase the Hillside campus of Azusa Pacific 
University in Glendora, California, as the future site of the Church of the Open Door. 


November 28, 1984. A weeknight Bible study is begun at the new Church property as the first 
step of outreach to people in the Glendora area. ; 


March 3, 1985. Regular Sunday worship services begin at the new Church site in Glendora. At the 
same time, services are still being conducted on Hope Street. 


June 23, 1985. After seventy years on Hope Street, the final worship services are to beheld at the 
downtown location. Former pastor J. Vernon McGee is to bring the mornng message. In a special 
ceremony, the building’s cornerstone will be opened. 

June 30, 1985. The first combined services of the Church of the Open Door, Glendora are to 
begin. 


145 


146 


APPENDIX II 


PASTORAL STAFFS 


1915-1985 


R. A. Torrey, Pastor 
September 3, 1915—June 22, 1924 


T. C. Horton, Associate Pastor 
J. B. Trowbridge, Choirmaster 
A. J. Johnson, Church Secretary 


John McNeill, Pastor 
December 22, 1926—October 7, 1928 


W.E. Pietsch, Assistant Pastor 
EE. Lindgren, Assistant Pastor 
J.B. Trowbridge, Choirmaster 

T. G. McKay, Secretary-Treasurer 


Peter W. Philpott, Pastor 
October 6, 1929—October 15, 1931 


EE. Lindgren, Assistant Pastor 

Leonard Bushnell, Minister of Music 
Elton M. Roth, Minister of Music 

E. W. Stuchbery, Pastor, Shoredale Chapel 
Arthur W. McKee, Music Director 

Harold Cross, Music Director 


Louis T. Talbot, Pastor 
January 10, 1932—December 26, 1948 


EE. Lindgren, Assistant Pastor 

Maurice Johnson, Assistant Pastor 

William D. Ogg, Assistant Pastor 

William W. Orr, Minister of Christian Education 

Roy L. Laurin, Assistant Pastor 

IL. Eldridge, Assistant Pastor 

Dudley Girod, Pastor, Shoredale Chapel 

Arthur L. Reimer, Minister of Music 

Herbert G. Tovey, Minister of Music 

Samuel H. Sutherland, Minister of Christian Education 


J. Vernon McGee, Pastor 
January 1, 1949—August 30, 1970 


John L. Mitchell, Assistant Pastor 

H. Edward Rowe, Assistant Pastor 

Elliott R. Cole, Assistant Pastor 

William C. A. Nicholson, Administrator of Properties 
Cranston L. Burnett, Administrator of Properties 
Robert S. Litts, Administrator of Properties 
Donald H. Rhoads, Visitation Pastor 

Frank E. Lindgren, Visitation Pastor 

Ralph C. Scoville, Visitation Pastor 

Edward A. Waldeck, Visitation Pastor 

Edwin P. Rogers, Visitation Pastor 

Walter Dingfield, Visitation Pastor 


Arthur Avery, Director of Radio Ministries 

Robert Wakeman, Radio Coordinator 

Joseph Klein, Minister of Music 

Earle E Hulin, Minister of. Music 

Ted Nichols, Minister of Music i 

John Lundberg, Minister of Music 

Dudley Girod, Director of Christian Education 

W. Roberts Pedrick, Director of Christian Education 
Jay A. H. Beaumont, Director of Chnstian Education 
Paul L. Dirks, Minister of Christian Education 
James J. Klubnik, Minister of Youth 


Malcolm R. Cronk, Pastor 
June 20, 1971—June 25, 1978 


Paul L. Dirks, Associate Pastor 

J. Edward Hastings, Assistant Pastor 

Robert S. Litts, Administrator of Properties 
Wallace Craig, Administrator of Properties 

Ralph Brushaber, Minister of Stewardship 

Ralph C. Scoville, Minister of Visitation 

Alfred S. Hovey, Minister of Visitation 

Edwin P Rogers, Minister of Visitation 

Harold W. Carlson, Minister of Visitation 

Gary Sisk, Minister of Visitation 

Ted Nichols, Minister of Music 

Paul W. Davis, Minister of Music 

Lloyd E. Miller, Minister of Christian Education 
Mark Neuenschwander, Minister of Young Adults 
Gardner C. Cronk, Minister of Youth 

Charles Corwin, Minister of Evangelism & Outreach 
Sidney Best, Minister of Missions 

Jose Ramirez, Minister of the Spanish Department 


*G. Michael Cocoris, Senior Pastor 
September 9, 1979_ 


ee Ney Associate Pastor 
@ lerson, Administrator of Properties 
“Alfred S. Hovey, Minister of Pastoral Care 
Lawrence E. Simpson, Minister of Pastoral Care 
Robert H. Bunnell, Associate Minister of Visitation 
and Stewardship 
Marvin McKissick, Minister of Music 
David M. Peyton, Minister of Music 
‘Marc E. Billigmeier, Minister of Music 
Lars Soderholm, Minister of Christian Education 
Clyde T. Annandale, Minister of Christian Education to Youlh 
Mark von Ehrenkrook, Minister of Christian Education to : 
Children and Adults : 
*Thomas L. Vangeison, Minister of Chnistian Education : 
Jose Ramirez, Minister of the Spanish Department 


NOTE: Some of the above staff members, especially in visitation 

ministries, served concurrently. Most other repetitive titles 

indicate sequential ministries under the pastor of that era. 
*Staff members active the seventicth year on Hope Street. 


2a 


a 


ren, Mr. & Mrs. Willard 
se Miss Darlene 


t, Rev. & Mrs. George 
ae Mrs. Eli (Helen) 
‘Becker, Miss Mary 
*Beckett, Rev. & Mrs. Joseph 
‘Bergen, Rev. & Mrs. John 
Best, Miss Laura 
Best, Miss Mary 


Best, Rev. & Mrs. Sydney (Dorothy & Louise) 


*Bestvater, Mr. & Mrs. A. W. J. 
Bestvater, Miss Marjorie 
Bethke, Miss Annie 
Bishop, Mr, Albert 
Bishop, Miss Mary 

*Blakeman, Rev. & Mrs. Ralph 
Boem, Rev, & Mrs. Clarence 


Bumatnog, Mr. Theodore 
“Bunnell, Rev. & Mrs. Robert 


Canfield, Dr. & Mrs. Ford 
Carver, Miss Ruby 
Cae ee & Mrs, Baward 
. & Mrs, Herbert 
Cassel, Rev, Jacob 
Clark, Dr. David 
Wassen, Rev. & Mrs, Albert 
“Coen, Rev. & Mrs, Harold 
Contento, Rev, Paul 
Cook, Dr. & Mrs, Clyde 
Cook, Rev. & Mrs. James 
«cotke, Mrs, Allyn (Leila) 
Corwin, Dr. & Mrs, Charles 
Cory, Mr. & Mrs, Edwin 
Cotterell Mrs, Ollie 
Calter, Miss Mable 
Carts, Miss Lian 
Dalton, Miss Hi 
ah Se 
'S, Miss Grace 
“eg Mis, Rossen 
Deter Mrs Bs (anya) 
‘ty Cher, Mr. Andrew 
DS ME & Mrs. Richard 
“Dougherty Daniel, J 
Dow Mee 4s Mary Helen 
mond, Mr, Wesley 
' Rev. & Mrs, Cedric 


APPENDIX II] 


PAST & “PRESENT MISSIONARIES 


Eddings, Dr. & Mrs, Van 


Eggleston, Rev, Lyle 


Ekdahl, Mr. & Mrs, Ge 
Everett, Mr. Roger ie 


Fairchild, Miss Eleanor 
Farsley, Mr. Robert 

Farson, Mr. Allan 

Fields, Mrs. Ray 

Frederick, Rev. & Mrs, Edward 
Freedom, Mr. Edmund 

Fritz, Mrs, Russell 

Fox, Mrs. George (live) 


Galle, Miss Rosalie 
Gamble, Miss Patricia 
Geary, Mr. & Mrs. Robert 
Gerlt, Miss Eleanore 
Good, Miss Thais 

Gould, Rev. & Mrs. Howard 
Grings, Mr, Herbert 
Grubbs, Mr. & Mrs. Philip 
Grubbs, Mr, & Mrs. Virgil 
Gupta, Dr. & *Mrs. Paul 


Hall, Miss Lucille 

*Hardy, Miss Florence 

Harris, Miss Edith 

Harris, Mr. & Mrs. George 
Haynes, Miss Karen 

Heath, Mr. & Mrs. John 
*Heath, Miss Pearl 

Hill, Mrs. Rowland 

*Hillis, Dr. & Mrs. Dick 
*Hoffman, Mr. & Mrs. Kenneth 
Holland, Rey. & Mrs. John 
Holt, Dr. & Mrs. Albert 
Honer, Mr. . : 
*Hoogshagen, Mrs. Searle (Hilda) 
Hovey, Rev. & Mrs. Alfred 
Humphrey, Mr. Dick 

Hunt, Miss Marjone 
*Hurlburt, Mr. Gordon 


Jantzen, Mr 2 
hnson, Miss Marguerite 


oa BLES 


Lawhead, Mr. & Mrs, Robert 
, Mr. Frank 

Lee, Miss Mildred 

Lefevre, Miss Violet 

Leitch, Mr. Wayne 
*Lewis, Rev. & Mrs, John 
*Lewis, Rev. & Mrs, William 
“Livingston, Miss Mildred 
“Lovett, Miss Minnie 
*Lu, Rev. & Mrs. John 

Lutes, Miss Martha 


McAnlis, Rey, & Mrs. Allen 
*McAnlis, Mr. & Mrs. James 
McCabe, Miss Hazel 
McCourry, Mr. & Mrs. Mahlon 
*McCoy, Miss Viola 
McDonald, Dr. Jessie 
McDougall, Rev. & Mrs. Don 
McDougall, Miss Janet 
*McDougall, Mr. & Mrs. Murray 
*McDougall, Mrs. Stewart (Edna) 
McIntosh, Mr. & Mrs. Allan 
*McKelvey, Mr. & Mrs. James 
*McKenrick, Mrs. E H. (Betty) 
McNeal, Miss Maxine 


Mace, Mrs. Alva (Doris) 
*Martinez, Mr. & Mrs. Ted 
Mendenhall, Miss Celia 
*Metzger, Mr. & Mrs. Kenneth 
*Miller, Miss Virginia 
*Mirza, Mr. & Mrs. Nathan 
*Murphy, Dr. & Mrs. Edward 


Narramore, Mrs. Bruce (Kathleen) 
*Nash, Mr. & Mrs. James 

*Nash, Rey. & Mrs. Joseph 

Nash, Miss Ruth 

Neuenschwander, Mr. Edgar 
Neuenschwander, Mr. & Mrs. Mark 
New, Miss Mildred 

Nichols, Rev. & Mrs. Gladwyn 
Nichols, Mr. & Mrs. Ted 


i Miss Mercy 
eat Mr. & Mrs. Timothy 
*Pillai, Mr. Paul 
Pirolle, Miss Helen 


147 


148 


Pormes, Dr. Ais 

*Poulson, Dr. & Mrs, Ernest 
“Powell, Mr. & Mrs, Lawrence 
*Preedy, Mr. & Mrs. Clarence 
Preedy, Miss Grace 


Quiring, Miss Mary 


“Ragsdale, Mrs, John (Ada) 
Rankin, Mr. Henry 
Reese, Miss Dorothy 
Reese, Mr, & Mrs. Paul 
Remple, Mr. & Mrs, J. 
“Rice, Mrs, Roland (Mildred) 
“Roberts, Dr. & Mrs. Charles 


*Sagendorf, Miss Judi 
Sanders, Mr, & Mrs. David 
“Sargent, Miss Mary 
Sargent, Miss Edith 
Schirmer, Mr, & Mrs. Daniel 
Scoville, Rey, & Mrs, Ralph 
Senseman, Mr. & Mrs. Neal 
Septer, Miss Mina 
"Shepherd, Rev. & Mrs. Earl 


*Simpson, Rev, & Mrs, Lawrence 
Smith, Mr, & yee aay 

Smith, Mr. & Mrs. Don — 
Spindler, Mrs. Eugene (Mildred) 
Sprenger, Mr. Leslie 

Staley, Miss Sarah A 
*Sutton, Mrs. Daniel (Pauline) 


*Talbot, Mrs. Louis (Carol) 
*Teasdale, Mr. James 
*Teasdale, Mrs. Paul (Betty Lou) 
Telfer, Rev. & Mrs. E. J. 
Thoering, Miss Leona 
Thomas, Miss Anne 
Tolbelmann, Mr. & Mrs. George 
Toliver, Mr. & Mrs. John 
Toms, Mrs. Gertrude 
Townsend, Dr. Cameron 
*Tuggy, Rev, & Mrs. Alfred 
*Tuggy, Dr. David 
*Tuggy, Dr. & Mrs. Harold 
*Turner, Dr. & Mrs, Donald 
*Turer, Dr. Glen 


Uber, Mr. & Mrs. William 
Uhlinger, Rev. & Mrs. Andrew 


Vanderslik, Rev. & Mrs. Alvin 
Van Dusen, Rev. George 
Van Hamm, Mrs. Grace 


*Walker, Mr. & Mrs. Kenneth 
Ward, Mr. & Mrs, Wayne 
*Watson, Mrs, Mike (Dena) 
*Weathers, Mr, Kenneth 
*Weathers, Mr. Mark 
Webendorfer, Mrs. Helen 
Whale, Rev. & Mrs, Fred 
*Wiebe, Miss Paula 
*Wiggers, Mr. & Mrs, Loy 
*Wiklund, Mr. & Mrs. Lawrence 
Williams, Rev. & Mrs. Bennett 
*Williams, Rev. & Mrs. Robert 
Wood, Miss Janet 


Yates, Miss Donna 

Yerton, Mr. & Mrs. Homer 
Yong, Mr. John 

York, Miss Denise 


Zimmerman, Mr, & Mrs. Max 
Zoschke, Miss Rachel 


the Open Door.” That was not only true of the largest independent missions organization in the world, 
but also of many others as well. The following ministries originated, either directly or indirectly, from 


C ameron Townsend once said that Wycliffe Bible Translators was formed “in the shadow of the Church of 


the ministry of C.0.D. In some cases, the connection is simply that the founder of the organization was, at the 
time, a member of the church. 


« Australian Aborigines Evangelical Mission, E.J. Telfer, founder and supported missionary 
¢ Christian Jail Workers, Inc. 

¢ Christian Fellowship for the Blind 

¢ Christian Released Time Education, Ollie Cotterell, founder and supported missionary 
e Hindustan Bible Institute, Dr. Paul Gupta, founder and Supported missionary 

« Immanuel Mission to Shut-ins, Max Zimmerman, founder and supported missionary 

¢ Kentucky Mountain Mission 

* Missionary Action, Inc., Gladwyn Nichols, founder 

¢ Mission Ready, Paul Teasdale, founder and director, supported missionary 

* Mission to the Migrants, Ralph Blakeman, founder and director, supported missionary 
¢ Nigerian Youth Camp, Kathryn Dick, founder and Supported missionary 

¢ Orinoco River Mission, Van Eddings, founder 

* Overseas Crusades, Dr. Dick Hillis, founder 

¢ Open Door Children’s Home 

¢ Tokyo Evangelistic Center, Dr. Charles Corwin, founder and Supported missionary 


Mr. William G. Nyman, cofounder, 
The church has financially supported over three hundred missionaries who were members of 


approximately sixty different mission boards. 


i 
: 
| 


PAST AND *PRESENT BOARD MEMB 
ER: 
OF THE CHURCH OF THE OPEN DOO 


Dundas, Edwin E. 
Dunham, John 


Eby, Edge 
Eitsen, Harry 
Ellis, Norman. 
Ellis, Roy 
Ellison, Fred 
Emerson, R. C. 
Enns, Arthur 
Evans, Hugh B. 
Everett, Ralph 
Eymann, J. C. 
Eymann, Philip H. 


Fairman, W. B. 
Fairrington, Gene 
Farson, B. M. 
Finney, Charles G. 
Fisher, C. M. 
Fisk, Charles R. 
Fleming, Robert 
Forbes, Wm. 
Forsberg, Delbert 
Fox, Samuel 
Frackelton, John 
Frahm, Dr. Fred 
Fraser, Wm. 
Frenger, Paul R. 
Friant, Kenneth 
Friesen, Abraham C. 
Friesen, A. K. 
Friesen, Ted K. 
Fritsen, Arthur 
Fritsen, Nestor 
Fullerton, H. W. 
Funk, George 


Garner, David W. 
Gamer, D. W. 
Garner, E C. 
Garrett, James W. 
Gerwig, E. E 
Gibson, Robert 
Goertsen, Henry 
Green, Charles 
Greenleaf, John 
Grigsby, L. E. 
*Grondahl, Robert 


Hagerty, Earl 
Hale, W. R. 

Hall, H. O. 

Hall, Omer D. 
Hammond, W. J. 
Harrington, Alan L. 
Harris, Donald 
Harshman, C. A. 
Hartzell, L. S. 
Havens, Charles C. 
Havermale, A. H. 
Hazelen, Wm. 
Heath, Cyril 
Hoffman, Norman 


APPENDIXIV 


Hoffman, Robert 
Howell, Henry R. 
*Holt, Albert C. 
Holt, Leon A. 
Hope, C. D. 
Hunt, H. C. 
Hunt, W. W. 
Hunter, Earl 
Hunter, Roy A. 
Hunter, Wm. 
Hurst, S. T. 


Irving, George R. 
Isaac, David 


Jackson, George W,, Jr. 
Jacques, Kenneth 
Jamison, A. R. 
*Jensen, Ervin 
Johnson, Andrew J. 
Johnson, H. Norton 
Johnson, John R. 
Johnson, Wayne 

Jones, Evan R. 


Kaye, John E 
Kenagy, Paul 
Kendall, Herbert L. 
Kerr, W. C. 
Keyorkian, Albert 
Keyes, Henry S. 
Kilgore, Richard 
Killion, Curtis 
*Killion, Ray 
King, George R. 
Kinard, Percival 
Kirby, Milo B. 
Kirkpatrick, Ira D. 
Kitabjian, David 
Kitabjian, James 
Kober, Kenneth 
Korn, Donald 
Krueger, Michael 
Kuester, H. C. 
Kuhns, F J. 


Larson, Andrew 
Larson, H. Chris 
Laughlin, Harry T. 
Leggett, James 
Lerma, Philip 
Lilyquist, Rodney 
Louthan, Edward 
Lowe, James M. 
Lundstrom, Louis 
Lux, C. A. 


McKay, T. G. 
McKinnon, James 
*McDougall, Colin 
*McDougall, Murray 
McLachlan, Robert 


Maile, John V. 


Maljanian, Ed 
Manthorne, Frank 
Manthorne, Merton 
Markham, Leigh H. 
Markley, John Roy 
Marsh, Charles 
Martin, Jesse R. 
Mason, J. 
Matossian, A. K. 
Matossian, James 
Maxwell, A. A. 
Meier, S. Arthur 
Menard, Charles E. 
Mercado, Alfred 
Michel, Carlos H. 
Miller, Amos B. 
Minturm, Alvan D. 
Mire, Don 
Mitchell, A. 
Mitchell, W. E 
Monson, Robert 
Morris, Wilber 
Morrison, Joseph 
Multhauf, C. J. 
Myers, Ray 


Nelson, Otto 
Nelson, Rodney 
Nettle, E. R. 
Nichols, Gladwyn 
Nicholson, Wm. 
Northrop, Barker 
Nyman, William 


Ogg, Wm. D. 
Olds, Allen M. 
Olson, Lloyd 
Olson, Warren 
Overstreet, B. E. 


Pearson, Charles H. 
Penner, Kenneth W. 
Perkins, Charles 
Peru, Samuel 
Peters, Robert 
Petersen, Fred 
Peterson, Donald T. 
Peterson, Leonard 
Pike, W. H. 
Plunkett, M. D. 
Poole, Eugene 
Prunell, Robert H. 
Purcell, Orville O. 


Raynor, Jesse E. 
Ratzlaff, Stanley 
*Reese, Bernhard 
Remple, John A. 
Reynolds, J. E 
Richards, R. H. 
Roberts, Evan 
Robinson, R. B. 
Robison, James 
Rose, D. A. 


Rothwell, C. L. 


Scharf, William 
Shaw, U. J. 
Smeybe, William 
Smith, Clifford 
Smith, Herschel 
*Smith, Don C. 
Smith, M. L. 
Soderberg, Joel 
Spink, Charles 
Sprinkel, W. R. 
Starr, W. W. 
Steele, William H. 
Stevens, Merton 
Stewart, Lyman 
Stouffer, J. E. 
St. George, Elmer 
Sutton, Richard 
Swan, Jack 


Terry, J. A. 
*Terry, Paul 
Thome, W. M. 
Thomson, R. O. 
Toogood, Robert 
Tomkins, Harold 
Trowbridge, J. B. 


VanHazelen, William 
Vaus, James A. 
Visser, Fred 


Walker, Kenneth 
Walker, Wayne 
Wall, Frank 
Wallace, Roy 
West, H. D. 
Wheatley, W. A. 
White, Frank 
White, Wayne 
Whitewell, C. B. 
Wicker, George P 
Wiebe, Aron 
Williams, Robert 
Willian, Robert 
Wilson, Jack F 
Wilson, Nils 
Winter, Wilford 
Witt, Eric 

Witt, Kenneth 
Witt, Richard E 
Witt, Ted 

Wood, Billy J. 
Wood, E. W. 
Woods, C. N. 


Yeider, Donald 


Zimmerman, Max 


*Board members 
as of June 1985. 


149 


Lyman Stewart 

T. C. Horton 

Anne L. Horton 

R. A. Torrey 

Barker Northrup 
William Thorn 

Elizabeth V. Thorn 

Dr. George B. Armstrong 
Mary E. Armstrong 
Mary B. Hill 

Jennie M. Day 

Ada L. Merrill 

Mrs. George P. Wicker 
George P. Wicker 
William F Mitchell 
Elizabeth C. Steele 
Lawrence Westmoreland 
Mrs. L. Westmoreland 
Thomas J. Molyneux 
Jennie Miller 

Rose E Oliver 

E. Anna Rowland 

Lydia A. Rockel 

Mabel C, Lincoln 
Frederick L. Wood 
Hawley E. Staples 
Mrs. Jane Staples 
Herbert John Ranton 
Mrs. May L. Manchester 
Mrs. Mary F Meakee 
Mrs. Elizabeth A. Dillin 
Niels P. Hansen 

Edith G. Harris 

Robert M. Linton 

W. H. Steele 

Jesse E. Brown 


150 beslrom of members.” As a result there are 352 names lis 


APPENDIX V 


CHARTER MEMBERS OF THE 


CHURCH OF THE OPEN DOOR 


Listed in the order in which they signed the church constitution 


Mrs. Julia B. Ringrose 
Mrs. E. C. Fairman 
W. B. Fairman 

Flora H. Pierson 
Harold E. Cross 
Lela E. Cross 
Mabe! Lila Merrill 
Mrs. L. E. Grigsby 
L. E. Grigsby 

Annie R. Wilson 
Ruth R. Horton 
Richard Karl Schade 
T. C. Ringrose 

Julia C. Pressly 
Betty A. Pierson 

H. J. Baldwin 

Mrs. H. J. Baldwin 
Mrs. Armina Denison 
Otto J. Nelson 

Mrs. Otto J. Nelson 
L. F Knaak 

Jno. C. Potts 

Lula M. Crowell 
Faith L. Rexroat 
John A. Reese 
Katharina Ingalls 
Monna B. Watkins 
Joy R. Watkins 

Eva Shaw 

C. N. Woods 

Mrs. C. N. Woods 
W. E Carlson 

Jack R. Johnson 
Mrs. E. G, Alexander 
Percy Hart Alexander 
Bertha May Jamison 
Carl H. Westcott 
Mrs. A. R. Jamison 
A. R. Jamison 

Fred R. Rupp 

Nancy Wirich Emery 
Allie E. Campbell 
Lucile Crews Marsle 
Charles H. Marsh 
Sarah E. Conaway 
Clara K. Campbell 


FJ. Pursell Mrs. Sibyl C. McMillin Mary H. Cole 
Mrs. John Frackelton Mr. J. H. Bule Mrs. Lille Vaus 
Allan H. Morrison Mrs. J. H. Bull James A. Vaus 
Miss Carolyn Pritchard Mrs. C. I. Jacobson Florette Meyer 
Mrs. W. A. Noble Wm. E. Silverthorn Edwin B, Singer 
W.A. Noble Mrs. Goldva D. Koch Edith M. Singer 
A. H. Cate Nicholas E. Koch Orie McCoy 
Mrs. A. H. Cate Mrs. Christiana Wardwell Sara L. Reilly 
John Frackelton Donald Rigg Helen M. Rigden 
Miss Anna Clitheroe Mrs. Frank J. Rigg Dr. Chas. R. Clapp 
John H. Benson Frank J. Rigg Mrs. Chas. R. Clapp 
George W. Gray Henry S. Keyes Chas. A. Knight 
Mary N. Spooner Bessie G. Keyes L. P. Bredt 
Quenton Bredt Frances Wardwell Frank L. Hager 
Anna L. D. Peart Katharine R. Fehr Eva M. Hager 
Rowene E. Armstrong Emma C. Forster E H. Ottelien 
Herbert W. Stephen Florence J. Books Raymond J. Alder 
Marie Henriette Pinkerton Christian M. Books Mrs. R. J. Alder 
Ruth Saada Pinkerton Ruby B. Frahm Miss M. E. Clarke 
Mrs. A. H. Cassett FE W. Frahm, D.D.S. A. R. Brahams 
Margaret Ulrich Pinkerton. Mrs. Ella C. Wheeler Mrs. A. R. Brahams 
Cora Cohman Eva Rodgers Mrs. George Johnson 
Mrs. C. E. Manby Mrs. David Robson George Johnson 
Mrs. A. J. Johnson Paul Evans Mr. Jas. E Ayers 
Fred Thomas Mrs. William Evans Mrs. Jas. FE Ayers 
Mrs. Sylvia A. Thomas Thos. L. Harris Theodora B. Engle 
Edna R. Dafford Oren Waters Evans Mrs. Ada Ottelien 
Ruth Ulich Pinkerton Louis John Birge Mary E. Clarke 
B. G. Pinkerton Louis H. Evans George Brahams 
Andrew J. Johnson Miss L. Esther Camp Lester Louis Alder 
Goldie E. Barman R. Cordell Holland Webster Brahams 
Fred O. Wilkins George Cunningham Charles Marsh 
Mrs. Fred 0. Wilkins Mrs. Hattie Fancher Joseph Dennison 
George Funk Mrs. Tillee Larson Hilda EF Barnard 
Miss C. Juanita Hodgman M. D. Plunkett Kenneth Dennison 
Allen C. Dunham Mrs. Etta May Plunkett C. H. Dennison, Jr. 
Harry A. Hampton Haldene M. Plunkett Mr. Rolla Carey 
Agnes W. Hampton Mrs. Lucy R. Redmond Ralph Clyde Scoville 
John McKnight Harold Redmond Miss Elsie McCoy 
Sheldon H. Caswell G. Edward Redmond Mr. R. E. Rednall 
Carrie A. Caswell Ragnhild E. Miller Mary Julia Hall 
Peter Taylor Clara Hoffman Mrs. Eunice M. Wagoner 
Mary A. Taylor Miss Gilma Barnard W. S. Gaston 
Charles A. Bright Julia Barnard Mrs. Sylvia Gaston 
A. Genevieve Lord Agnes H. Barnard Mary E. Broherll 
C. C. Reid Mrs. S. B. Cunni Mrs. Larale E. Hurst 
John A. Crisler Winifred A. Murfin Mrs. Isabella Smith 
Mrs. Frances West Helen C. Reilly Christian A. Nissen 
pater ties oe = eu i Miss Margrette Vestergard 
le Bol rt Burke i S 
Augusta Johnson Mrs. D. R. vanSickle vie Noe Gerke 
Elizabeth Handerson Miss H, Ruth Chadbourn Mrs. Lillian Estelle Schrotzberger 
Margaret K. Rohrbach Mrs. Margaret Horton Morgan —_J. F Strunk 
Henry J. Rohrbach Mrs. J. W. Alabaster Morris Moon. 
Mrs, Annie Dailey J. W. Alabaster Christian Petersen 
Mrs. M. H. Warder Marie Ervin Mrs. C. Petersen 
H. E. Grings Callie Lindvoth Mrs. Edith B. Wilkins 
Mrs, Willamay Henderson Dr. and Mrs. F H. Kuhns Walter G. Wilkins 
Mrs. Chas. Pearson Mrs. J. H. Hedden Harry C. Vernon 
Chas. H. Pearson Mr. A. M. Knudsen 
Footnote to Charter Members List 
. That figure needs to be 
ting on September 3, 1915, but one person, Barker Northrup (the 


October [underscore is in original handwritten minutes] for the 
members. ! 


APPENDIX VI : 


SELECTED SOURCES 


Church of the Open Door. 1915-1965, Golden Anniversary, Los Angeles: Church 


. ie of the Open Door, 1965, 
George W. A History of Fundamentalism 7 ; 5 
Dota, Ges rge in America. Greenville, SC: Bob Jones University Press, 


Fuller, Daniel B. Give the Winds a Mighty Voice. Waco, TX: Word Books, 1972. 

Gammie, Alexander. Rev. John McNeill, His Life and Work. London: Pickering and Inglis, n.d. 

Hefley, James and Marti. Uncle Cam. Milford, MI: Mott Media, 1981, 

Henry, James O. Biola Today, condensed in “Black Oil and Souls to Save,” The King’s Business, February 1958. 


Killion, James. The Script of “Fifty-Eight Years on Hope Street,” A Pictorial Hi 
Door, Los Angeles: Unpublished paper. a here 


The King’s Business. Magazine of the Bible Institute of Los Angeles, 1910-1970. 

MacInnis, John Murdoch. Peter, the Fisherman Philosopher, New York: Harper and Brothers, 1930. 

Martin, Roger. R.A. Torrey, Apostle of Certainty. Murfreesboro, TN: Sword of the Lord, 1976. 

Multhauf, D.J. “A History of the Church of the Open Door: 1915-1965.” Los Angeles: Unpublished paper. 

Philpott, PW. Sixty Wonderful Years, ed. Mildred M. Cook. Los Angeles: Bible House of Los Angeles, 1946. 

¢t Memorial Church. 90th Anniversary, 1892-1982. Hamilton, Ontario: Philpott Memorial Church, 1982. 
U Bom. Chicago: Moody Press, 197. 

0 Louis T. Talbot. Los Angeles: The Bible Insitute of Los 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


G. Michael Cocoris is the seventh pastor of 
the Church of the Open Door. 

The son ofa Greek immigrant, young Michael 
| was christened in the Greek Orthodox Church, 
B but it was not until he was in high school that he 
had a personal relationship with the Lord. From 
the time of his conversion Mike felt a call } 
to preach. 

His college days were spent at Tennessee 
5 Temple University, and were followed by four 
years of graduate study at Dallas Theological 
Seminary, where Mike earned his master of 
theology degree. He traveled extensively as an i 
expository evangelist, and served for several § 
years as an adjunct faculty member at Dallas § 
Seminary. In 1984 he was awarded the honorary 
doctor of divinity degree by Biola University for 
his contributions to the evangelical community. 

Dr. Cocoris and his wife, Judy, are the par- 
§ ents of three children. They reside in Arcadia, 
§ California. 


S More information on the life of G. Michael Cocoris 
ls given in chapter 7 of this volume. 


Cover design by Karen Malzeke-McDonald 
Walvoord Killion McCabe Incorporated 


LUT 
cS 


