DOCUMENT_ID: motthistory1892
TITLE (as printed): History of the Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions
AUTHOR: John R. Mott
DATE: 1892
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL: https://archive.org/details/historyofstudent00mott (djvu OCR text: https://archive.org/download/historyofstudent00mott/historyofstudent00mott_djvu.txt)
EDITION: Place/publisher not identified on the digitized copy's catalog record. Digitized by the Internet Archive.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: Internet Archive OCR (djvu), fetched verbatim via curl, uncorrected.
TOTAL LINES: 1460
TOTAL WORDS (OCR, whitespace count): 7353
OCR QUALITY: Good; ligatures render as "oe"/"ae" style artifacts (e.g., curly quotes as
"¬") in some places, copied as-is, uncorrected.
---BEGIN TEXT---
/ 


HISTORY 


OF  THE 


STUDENT  VOLUNTEER 
MOVEMENT 


FOREIGN  MISSIONS 

3Y 


JOHN  R.  MOTT 


HISTORY 


OF  THE-. 


STUDENT  VOLUNTEER 
MOVEMENT 


FOREIGN  MISSIONS 


BY 


JOHN  R.  MOTT 


HISTORY  OF  THE 


STUDENT  VOLUNTEER  MOVEMENT 

FOR  FOREIGN  MISSIONS. 

I.  ORIGIN. 

In  the  early  days  of  this  century, 
partly  as  a  result  of  the  wonderful  spirit 
of  revival  which  was  then  sweeping 
through  the  Eastern  colleges,  and  partly 
as  a  result  of  reading  the  record  of  the 
heroism  and  sacrifice  of  the  pioneer 
representatives  oi  the  first  missionary 
societies  of  England,  a  deep  interest  in 
foreign  missions  began  to  develop  among 
the  students  of  New  England.  It  first 
assumed  a  practical  form  in  1808  when 
Samuel  J.  Mills  and  a  little  group  of  his 
fellow  students  secretly  organized  at 
Williams  College  the  Society  of  Breth¬ 
ren.  “The  object  of  this  society,”  in 
the  words  of  its  constitution,  “  shall  be 
to  effect  in  the  persons  of  its  members  a 
mission  or  missions  to  the  heathen.” 


The  main  reason  for  secrecy,  doubtless/ 
was  the  possibility  of  failure,  because  in 
those  days  there  was  comparatively  no 
sentiment  in  favor  of  such  an  enterprise. 
It  will  be  remembered  that  there  was 
then  no  missionary  society  on  this  con¬ 
tinent  which  had  a  station  on  a  foreign 
field.  Obviously  one  great  problem 
which  confronted  these  students  was  so 
to  affect  public  opinion  as  to  lead  to  the 
formation  of  an  aggressive  foreign  mis¬ 
sionary  society.  By  publication  and  cir¬ 
culation  of  two  strong  addresses  on  mis¬ 
sions,  by  correspondence  with  leading 
clergymen,  and  by  personal  work  with 
them  during  vacations,  much  was  ac¬ 
complished.  The  center  of  activity  was 
then  transferred  to  Andover  Seminary. 
Here  some  of  the  men  who  had  come 
from  Williams  were  joined  by  Nott, 
Judson  and  others,  whom  they  were  sur¬ 
prised  to  find  filled  with  the  same  idea 
and  spirit.  As  a  result  of  their  com¬ 
bined  labor  and  influence  in  the  semin¬ 
ary,  in  the  colleges,  and  in  the  churches, 
wherever  they  spoke,  they  achieved  their 
purpose;  for  this  missionary  movement 


5 


led  by  students  of  the  New  England 
colleges  furnished  the  occasion  for  the 
formation  of  the  American  Board  of 
Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions. 

The  leaders  in  this  student  missionary 
movement  were  anxious  to  accomplish 
another  important  object.  Not  only  did 
they  recognize  the  importance  of  educa¬ 
ting  and  arousing  the  Church  to  send 
forth  and  sustain  missionaries;  but  they 
also  clearly  discerned  that  something 
must  be  done  to  awaken  and  maintain 
an  active  interest  in  missions  among 
college  men,  in  order  that  there  might 
be  a  sufficient  and  constant  number  of 
candidates  for  foreign  service.  To  make 
this  possible  they  sought  by  correspond¬ 
ence  and  visitation  to  have  missionary 
societies  formed  in  the  different  colleges. 
So  much  in  earnest  were  they  that,  it  is 
said,  some  of  the  members  of  the  parent 
society  at  Williams  left  that  institution 
and  entered  other  colleges,  in  order  to 
spread  the  missionary  spirit.  Their 
strong  desire  was  to  bind  the  colleges 
together  in  an  intercollegiate  missionary 
movement.  While  their  labors  resulted, 


6 


in  a  few  years,  in  planting  societies  in 
several  institutions,  and  in  raising  up 
quite  a  number  of  missionaries  (includ¬ 
ing  some  of  the  most  distinguished  who 
have  gone  out  from  America)  they  failed 
to  realize  their  chief  aim — the  formation 
of  a  wide-spread,  permanent  student 
missionary  movement.  Their  failure  in 
this  respect  appears  to  have  been  due  to 
lack  of  organization,  and  more  especially 
to  the  low  spiritual  condition  of  many  of 
the  colleges  at  that  time,  notwithstand¬ 
ing  the  fact  that  in  others  there  had 
recently  been  marked  revivals  of  re¬ 
ligion.  To  the  American  and  Canadian 
students,  nearly  three-quarters  of  a  cen¬ 
tury  later,  was  left  the  realization  of  this 
hope  and  purpose. 

A  memorable  conference  of  college 
men  was  held  from  July  6th  to  August 
ist,  1886,  atMt.  Hermon,  overlooking  the 
Connecticut  River,  in  the  State  of  Massa¬ 
chusetts.  Two  hundred  and  fifty-one 
students,  from  eighty-seven  colleges, 
representing  all  parts  of  the  United 
States  and  Canada,  had  come  together 
at  the  invitation  of  Mr.  Moody  to  spend 


7 


several  weeks  in  Bible  study.  Ten  days 
passed  before  the  subject  of  missions 
was  even  mentioned  in  the  sessions  of 
the  Conference.  A  few  young  men,  how¬ 
ever,  like  Wilder  of  Princeton,  Tewkes¬ 
bury  of  Harvard,  and  Clark  of  Oberlin, 
had  come  with  the  deep  conviction  that 
God  would  call  from  that  large  gather¬ 
ing  of  college  men  a  number  who  would 
consecrate  themselves  to  foreign  mis¬ 
sions.  At  an  early  day  they  called  to¬ 
gether  all  who  were  thinking  seriously 
of  spending  their  lives  on  the  foreign 
field.  Twenty-one  students  answered 
this  call,  although  several  of  them  had 
not  definitely  decided  the  question.  This 
little  band  of  consecrated  men  began  to 
pray  that  the  spirit  of  missions  might 
pervade  the  Conference,  and  that  the 
Lord  would  separate  many  of  the  dele¬ 
gates  unto  this  great  work.  In  a  few 
days  they  were  to  see  their  faith  re¬ 
warded  far  beyond  what  they  had  dared 
to  claim. 

On  the  evening  of  July  16th,  Dr. 
Arthur  T.  Pierson  gave  a  thrilling  ad¬ 
dress  on  missions.  He  supported  by 


8 


the  most  convincing  arguments  the 
proposition  that  ‘‘All  should  go,  and  go 
to  all.”  He  pressed  upon  the  conscien¬ 
ces  of  his  hearers  that  their  relation  to 
missions  was  after  all  “only  a  matter  of 
supreme  loyalty  to  Jesus  Christ.”  He 
sounded  the  key  note  which  set  many 
men  to  thinking  and  praying. 

A  week  passed.  On  Friday  night, 
July  23d,  a  meeting  was  held  which  may 
occupy  as  significant  a  place  in  the  his¬ 
tory  of  the  Christian  Church  as  the  Will¬ 
iams  Hay  Stack  Prayer  Meeting.  It  is 
known  as  the  meeting  of  the  ten  nations. 
It  was  addressed  by  sons  of  missionaries 
in  China,  India,  and  Persia,  and  by 
seven  other  young  men  of  different  na¬ 
tionalities — an  American,  a  Japanese,  a 
Siamese,  a  German,  a  Dane,  a  Nor¬ 
wegian,  and  an  American  Indian.  These 
men  in  pithy,  burning,  three-minute 
speeches  each  made  one  dominant  point, 
viz:  the  need  in  his  country  of  more 
workers  from  the  body  of  students  as¬ 
sembled  in  that  Conference.  After  the 
appeals  were  given,  each  speaker,  during 
a  most  impressive  silence,  repeated  in 


9 


the  language  of  the  country  which  he 
represented  the  words,  “God  is  love.” 
Dr.  Ashmore,  after  a  few  sentences,  left 
with  the  students  the  searching  chal¬ 
lenge,  “  Show,  if  you  can,  why  you 
should  not  obey  the  last  command  of 
Jesus  Christ.”  The  meeting  closed  with 
a  season  of  silent  and  audible  prayer, 
which  will  never  be  forgotten  by  those 
who  were  present.  The  people  left  the 
hail  in  silence.  That  night  was  pre¬ 
eminently  a  night  of  prayer. 

On  Tuesday  morning,  July  27th,  Dr. 
William  Ashmore  of  China  (who  had, 
as  soon  as  he  learned  of  this  Conference 
on  arriving  in  the  country,  cancelled  his 
engagements  for  over  a  week  in  order 
that  he  might  .attend  and  lay  upon  the 
students  the  claims  of  China),  added 
fuel  to  the  flame.  He  made  a  ringing 
appeal  to  Christians  to  “look  no  longer 
upon  missions  as  a  mere  wrecking  expe¬ 
dition,  but  as  a  war  of  conquest.”  Mr. 
Sankey  sang  with  spirit  and  thrilling 
fervor,  “Tell  it  out  among  the  nations 
that  the  Lord  is  King.”  Mr.  Moody 
prayed  earnestly  that  the  missionary 


IO 


spirit  might  fall  upon  those  present. 

By  this  time  the  number  of  volunteers 
had  increased  from  twenty-one  to  nearly 
fifty.  During  the  remaining  five  days 
of  the  Conference  the  interest  became 
more  and  more  intense.  Meetings  of 
the  volunteers  and  those  specially  inter¬ 
ested  were  held  each  day.  Possibly  the 
most  sacred  of  these  was  the  one  held 
in  the  parlor  of  Crossley  Hall,  from  twi¬ 
light  until  midnight,  on  Friday,  July 
30th.  Missions  became  the  absorbing 
topic  of  conversation  wherever  the  stud¬ 
ents  gathered — in  the  rooms,  in  the  din¬ 
ing  hall,  at  the  swimming  wharf,  and  on 
the  athletic  field.  Each  volunteer  be¬ 
came  an  enlister  of  others.  But  the 
large  majority  of  the  decisions  were  not 
reached  in  the  presence  of  others.  One 
by  one,  the  men,  alone  in  the  woods  or 
in  their  rooms  with  their  Bibles  and 
God,  fought  out  the  battle  with  self,  and 
became  obedient  to  the  heavenly  vision. 
Late  in  the  afternoon  of  the  last  day  the 
number  of  volunteers  had  reached  ninety- 
nine.  They  assembled  for  a  farewell 
meeting,  during  which  a  man  came  in 


1 1 


and  volunteered,  making  the  number  at 
the  close  of  the  Conference  an  even  one 
hundred. 

At  this  final  meeting  there  was  a 
unanimous  expression  that  the  mission¬ 
ary  spirit,  which  had  manifested  itself 
with  such  power  at  Mt.  Hermon,  should 
be  communicated,  in  some  degree  at 
least,  to  the  thousands  of  students  in 
the  colleges  and  seminaries  who  had  not 
been  privileged  to  come  in  contact  with 
it  at  its  source.  It  was  the  conviction 
of  the  volunteers  that  the  reasons  which 
had  led  them  to  decide  would  influence 
hundreds  of  other  students,  if  those 
reasons  were  once  presented  to  them  in 
a  practical,  intelligent,  faithful  and  pray¬ 
erful  manner.  Two  days  before  this  the 
suggestion  had  come  to  a  few  of  the  vol¬ 
unteers  and  leaders  of  the  Conference, 
while  on  a  tramp  over  the  hills  near  the 
Vermont  border,  that  a  deputation, 
something  like  the  ‘‘Cambridge  Band,” 
be  sent  among  the  colleges.  This  famous 
band  was  composed  of  seven  Cambridge 
students  noted  for  their  scholarship, 
their  prominence  in  athletics,  and,  above 


all,  their  consecration  and  spirituality. 
Before  going  out  to  China  they  made  a 
memorable  tour  among  the  British  uni¬ 
versities,  creating  a  great  missionary  re¬ 
vival  among  the  students — felt  also  more 
or  less  by  the  entire  Church.  When 
this  plan  was  mentioned  to  the  volun¬ 
teers  it  was  heartily  and  prayerfully 
adopted;  and  a  deputation  of  four  stud¬ 
ents  was  selected  to  represent  the  Mt. 
Hermon  Conference,  and  to  visit  during 
the  year  as  many  institutions  as  pos¬ 
sible. 

II.  DEVELOPMENT. 

Of  the  four  men  selected  for  this  im¬ 
portant  mission  among  the  colleges  only 
one,  Mr.  Robert  P.  Wilder,  was  able  to 
go.  After  much  prayer,  Mr.  John  N. 
Forman,  also  of  Princeton,  was  induced 
to  become  a  member  of  the  deputation. 
A  prominent  layman  of  one  of  the  East¬ 
ern  cities,  who  was  at  Mt.  Hermon  dur¬ 
ing  the  impressive,  closing  days,  gener¬ 
ously  offered  to  bear  the  expenses  in¬ 
volved  in  the  tour,  and  ever  since  he  has 
sustained  a  most  helpful  relation  to  the 
Movement.  It  would  be  impossible  to 


i3 


*■ 


estimate  the  many-fold  fruitage  which 
has  been  gathered  by  the  Church  as  a 
result  of  this  one  man’s  consecrated  giv¬ 
ing.  Messrs.  Wishard  and  Ober,  at  that 
time  the  International  College  Secre¬ 
taries  of  the  Young  Men’s  Christian 
Association,  who  had  selected  the  mem¬ 
bers  of  the  deputation,  also  assumed  the 
responsible  duty  of  facilitating  their 
tour.  This  first  year  (1886-87)  may 
properly  be  characterized  as  the  year  of 
rapid  and  wide  extension.  Messrs. 
Wilder  and  Forman  visited  176  institu¬ 
tions,  including  nearly  all  of  the  leading 
colleges  and  divinity  schools  of  Canada 
and  the  United  States.  As  a  rule  they 
traveled  together,  but  now  and  then 
separated  in  order  that  they  might  touch 
more  institutions.  Their  speeches 
packed  with  fresh  and  telling  facts,  their 
arguments  firmly  anchored  in  the  Scrip¬ 
tures,  their  unwavering  faith  in  the  pos¬ 
sibility  of  evangelizing  the  world  in  their 
generation  if  the  students  would  but 
rally  around  the  idea,  above  all  the 
prayerfulness  of  their  lives,  made  a  last¬ 
ing  impression  wherever  they  went.  As 


14 

a  result  of  their  labors  the  number  of 
volunteers  passed  from  ioo  to  2,200  dur¬ 
ing  the  year.  Even  Dr.  Pierson  in  his 
most  sanguine  moments  had  not  dared 
to  predict  that  the  Movement  would,  in 
so  short  a  time,  reach  beyond  a  thous¬ 
and. 

During  the  second  year  (1887-88)  the 
Movement  was  left  to  itself.  It  was  un¬ 
organized,  and  had  no  leadership  or 
oversight  whatever.  Notwithstanding 
this,  as  a  result  of  its  inherent  life  and 
acquired  momentum  it  continued  to  ex¬ 
pand.  The  volunteers  themselves  by 
personal  work  swelled  their  number  to 
nearly  3,000.  But,  on  the  other  hand, 
like  any  other  vigorous  movement  left 
without  a  guiding  hand,  it  began  to 
manifest  certain  dangerous  tendencies. 
No  particular  notice  of  these  was  tiaken 
until  the  summer  of  1888,  when  about 
fifty  volunteers  from  different  sections 
came  together  at  the  World’s  Student 
Conference  at  Northfield,  and  reported 
the  condition  of  the  Movement  in  their 
respective  institutions.  It  was  then 
found  that  there  was:  (1)  A  tendency 


15 


in  the  Movement  at  some  points  to  lose 
its  unity.  All  sorts  of  missionary  socie¬ 
ties  and  bands — with  different  purposes, 
methods  of  work  and  forms  of  constitu¬ 
tions — were  springing  up.  It  was  plain 
that  it  would  lose  much  of  its  power 
should  its  unity  be  destroyed.  (2)  A 
tendency  to  decline  in  some  colleges, 
because  not  carefully  supervised.  (3) 
A  disposition  to  conflict  with  existing 
religious  societies  appeared  in  a  very 
few  places.  All  of  these  tendencies  were 
decidedly  out  of  harmony  with  the  orig¬ 
inal  spirit  and  purpose  of  the  Movement; 
accordingly  it  was  decided  that  immed¬ 
iate  steps  should  be  taken  toward  a  wise 

organization.  Another  consideration 

* 

helped  to  influence  this  decision,  and 
that  was  a  desire  to  extend  the  Move¬ 
ment  further.  Thus  far  it  had  not 
touched  more  than  one-fifth  of  the  insti¬ 
tutions  of  higher  learning  on  this  conti¬ 
nent.  This  marked  a  very  critical  time 
in  the  history  of  the  Volunteer  Move¬ 
ment.  To  Mr.  C.  K.  Ober  is  due  in 
large  measure  the  credit  of  safely  pass¬ 
ing  the  crisis.  He  recognized  clearly 


i6 


the  possibilities  of  this  Movement  if 
properly  guarded,  developed  and  ex¬ 
tended;  and  firmly  believed  that  all  the 
dangerous  tendencies  would  be  checked 
by  judicious  organization.  As  chairman 
of  the  committee  appointed  by  the  vol¬ 
unteers  at  Northfield  for  that  purpose  he 
suggested,  in  the  main,  the  flexible  yet 
comprehensive  scheme  of  organization 
under  which  the  Movement  has  since 
been  working.  Had  the  counsels  of 
some  prevailed  at  this  time,  in  all  human 
probability  the  Movement  would  have 
disintegrated,  and  much  of  the  interest 
passed  away,  just  as  the  British  dele¬ 
gates  at  Northfield  reported  had  been 
the  case  in  their  universities  after  the 
members  of  the  Cambridge  Band  and  a 
majority  of  the  men  whom  they  enlisted 
had  gone  to  the  foreign  field;  and,  just 
as  the  missionary  interest  waned  among 
the  students  of  New  England  not  long 
after  the  pioneer  student  missionaries 
had  entered  upon  their  life  work  in  for¬ 
eign  lands.  In  this  connection  it  is  in¬ 
teresting  to  consider  the  conditions  con¬ 
fronting  the  Volunteer  Movement  in  the 


i7 


last  decade,  which  differed  from  those 
which  existed  in  the  colleges  in  the  first 
decade  of  the  century  when  the  students 
of  Williams  College  were  seeking  to  form 
an  intercollegiate  missionary  movement. 
We  have  seen  that  they  failed  in  the 
effort  to  accomplish  this  largely  because 
of  the  lack  of  Christian  organization 
among  the  students  then,  and  also  be¬ 
cause  of  the  low  state  of  spiritual  life  in 
many  of  the  colleges.  The  Volunteer 
Movement  entered  a  field  in  which  a 
much  larger  majority  of  the  students 
than  ever  before  were  Christians.  More¬ 
over  it  found  those  Christians  peculiarly 
susceptible  to  the  missionary  appeal  be¬ 
cause  of  the  preparation  their  minds  and 
hearts  had  received  in  Bible  classes,  in 
personal  work,  country  and  city  mis¬ 
sions,  and,  to  a  limited  extent,  in  the 
study  of  missions,  in  connection  with 
their  Christian  Associations.  The  pres¬ 
ence  of  large  intercollegiate  Christian  or¬ 
ganizations  not  only  rendered  the  spread 
of  the  Volunteer  Movement  a  compara¬ 
tively  easy  thing,  but  they  also  afforded 
the  conditions  for  making  it  permanent. 


i8 


The  third  year  of  the  history  of  the 
Movement  (1888-89)  maY  t>e  called  the 
year  of  organization.  The  committee 
appointed  to  take  this  matter  in  charge 
decided  that  the  Movement  should  be 
confined  to  students.  It  was  therefore 
named  the  Student  Volunteer  Movement 
for  Foreign  Missions.  It  was  noted  that 
practically  all  of  the  volunteers  were 
members  of  some  one  of  the  four  great 
inter-denominational  student  organiza¬ 
tions,  viz:  The  College  Young  Men’s 
Christian  Association,  the  College  Young 
Women’s  Christian  Association,  the  Am¬ 
erican  Inter-Seminary  Missionary  Alli¬ 
ance,  and  the  Canadian  Intercollegiate 
Missionary  Alliance.  This  suggested 
the  plan  of  placing  at  the  head  of  the 
Movement  a  permanent  executive  com 
mittee  composed  of  one  representative 
appointed  by  each  of  these  organiza¬ 
tions.  Thus  far  the  last  two  organiza¬ 
tions  named  have  appointed  the  same 
man.  This  committee  is  to  develop  and 
facilitate  the  Movement  in  accord  with 
the  spirit  and  constitutions  of  the  organ¬ 
izations  which  they  represent,  and  as  an 


organic  department  of  them — thus  obvi¬ 
ating  a  new  and  an  unnecessary  organi¬ 
zation.  The  plan  was  first  submitted  to 
the  College  Committee  of  the  Interna¬ 
tional  Committee  of  the  Young  Men’s 
Christian  Associations,  and  was  heartily 
approved.  They  appointed  Mr.  John 
R.  Mott  as  their  representative.  He 
has  held  this  position  ever  since.  The 
plan  was  fully  endorsed  by  the  Interna¬ 
tional  Committee  of  the  Young  Women’s 
Christian  Associations,  and  Miss  Nettie 
Dunn  was  chosen  to  represent  them.  In 
1891  she  was  succeeded  by  Miss  Corabel 
Tarr.  The  two  Missionary  Alliances 
also  favored  the  plan  and  named  Mr. 
Robert  P.  Wilder  as  their  representative. 
He  occupied  the  position  until  1891, 
when  he  was  followed  by  Mr.  Robert  E. 
Speer,  who  was  succeeded  in  turn  in  the 
spring  of  1892  by  Mr.  D.  Willard  Lyon. 
The  Executive  Committee  as  first  con¬ 
stituted  began  its  work  in  January,  1889, 
and  soon  completed  the  work  of  organ¬ 
ization.  This  may  be  briefly  outlined 
as  follows: 

1 .  The  Executive  Comviittee  (composed 


20 


as  above)  has  general  supervision  and 
direction  of  the  Movement.  It  meets 
on  an  average  of  once  each  month. 

2.  The  Committee  has  the  following 
secretaries:  (i)  A  Traveling  Secretary 
(at  times  there  have  been  two),  whose 
work  consists  in  organizing,  educating, 
quickening  and  setting  at  work  the  vol¬ 
unteers  in  the  different  institutions,  and 
in  extending  the  Movement  not  only 
among  previously  visited  institutions, 
but  also  among  those  as  yet  untouched. 
(2)  A  Corresponding  Secretary ,  who  en¬ 
rolls  and  classifies  the  names  of  volun¬ 
teers,  tabulates  statistics,  prepares  and 
distributes  printed  matter,  conducts  an 
extensive  correspondence  with  several 
hundreds  of  institutions,  and  renders 
such  aid  to  the  Missionary  Boards  as 
may  be  within  his  power.  He  also  acts 
as  Treasurer.  Mr.  William  H.  Hannum 
held  this  position  until  shortly  before  he 
sailed  for  India  in  1890.  Since  then  Mr. 
Walter  J.  Clark  has  filled  the  office.  (3) 
An  Editorial  Secretary ,  who  aims  to  keep 
the  Movement  before  the  Church  and 
volunteers.  Messrs.  R.  S.  Miller,  Jr., 


E.  W.  Rand,  and  Max  Wood  Moorhead 
have  in  turn  held  this  position.  Since 
1891  it  has  been  unoccupied. 

3.  There  is  an  Advisory  Committee 
with  whom  the  Executive  Committee 
confers  about  any  specially  important 
step  in  the  development  of  the  Move¬ 
ment.  It  has  been  composed  from  the 
beginning  of  the  following:  Rev.  A.  J. 
Gordon,  D.  D.,  Bishop  M.  S.  Baldwin, 
D.  D.,  Miss  Abbie  B.  Child,  President 
Merrill  E.  Gates,  Rev.  George  Alexan¬ 
der,  D.  D.,  Rev.  A.  T.  Pierson,  D.  D. 

4.  The  Executive  Committee,  through 
their  Traveling  Secretary,  are  unable  to 
touch  more  than  one-fifth  of  the  colleges 
and  theological  seminaries  during  the 
year.  They  therefore  aim  to  have  a  Cor¬ 
responding  Member  (or  Corresponding 
Committee)  in  every  State  and  Province 
in  which  the  extent  and  condition  of  the 
Movement  demanded  it.  His  work  is  to 
carry  out  the  policy  of  the  Committee  in 
his  particular  field. 

5.  In  each  institution  the  volunteers 
are  united  in  what  is  known  as  the  Vol¬ 
unteer  Band .  In  the  colleges  this  is 


22 


\ 


organized  as  the  Missionary  Department 
of  the  College  Association.  In  theo¬ 
logical  seminaries  it  is  a  part  of  the 
regular  Missionary  Society.  These 
bands  hold  regular  meetings  for  prayer 
and  for  systematic  study  of  missions. 
Moreover,  they  seek  to  spread  mission¬ 
ary  intelligence,  to  secure  new  volun¬ 
teers,  to  stimulate  systematic  giving, 
and  to  kindle  the  missionary  spirit  in 
young  people’s  societies  and  in  churches. 

While  the  third  year  in  the  life  of  the 
Movement  has  been  called  the  year  of 
organization  it  was  by  no  means  limited 
to  that.  Mr.  Wilder  was  induced  to  de¬ 
vote  this,  a  second  year  to  work  in  the 
field.  During  that  time  he  touched 
ninety-three  institutions,  twenty-five  of 
which  had  not  been  previously  visited 
and  enrolled  600  new  recruits.  The 
larger  part  of  his  time,  however,  was 
spent  in  reorganizing  the  volunteers  se¬ 
cured  by  Mr.  Forman  and  himself  on  the 
first  tour.  During  their  first  year  in  the 
work  they  had  favored  letting  the  volun¬ 
teers  form  bands  independent  of  the 
existing  religious  societies.  It  was 


23 


impossible  at  that  time  to  foresee  the 
result.  Two  years’  observation  of  the 
•  working  of  these  independent  bands, 
however,  had  completely  convinced  Mr. 
Wilder  (Mr.  Forman  in  the  meantime 
had  gone  to  India)  that  it  would  be  far 
better  from  every  consideration  for  the 
volunteers  to  group  themselves  together 
as  a  part  of  the  missionary  department 
of  the  existing  associations  and  societies. 
Within  this  year,  and  the  one  following 
it,  over  sixty — or  nearly  all — of  the  in¬ 
dependent  bands  merged  themselves  into 
these  organizations. 

The  year  1889-90  will  always  stand  out 
prominently  in  the  history  of  the  Volun¬ 
teer  Movement  as  the  year  of  the  deep¬ 
ening  of  its  inner  life.  Mr.  Robert  E. 
Speer,  of  Princeton,  1889,  touched  no 
institutions,  or  a  larger  number  than 
have  ever  been  taken  in  one  year  by 
any  man  in  the  college  field.  He 
reached  many  new  colleges,  especially 
in  the  South  and  South-East.  Now  that 
the  track  on  which  the  Movement  was  to 
run  had  been  laid  down,  in  the  form  of 
wise  organization,  Mr.  Speer  saw  that 


24 


its  power  and  efficiency  depended  on  the 
spiritual  life  of  the  individual  bands; 
and  so  he  sought  incessantly  to  bring  * 
these  groups  of  volunteers  to  the  great 
sources  of  spiritual  life  and  light. 
Along  the  pathway  of  his  tour  he  also 
gathered  1,100  new  volunteers. 

The  Movement  with  its  principles, 
purposes  and  possibilities  was  first 
brought  before  the  Church  in  a  public 
and  an  official  manner  in  the  year  1890- 
91.  That  was  the  year  of  its  First  In¬ 
ternational  Convention,  held  from  Feb¬ 
ruary  26th  to  March  1,  1891,  at  Cleve¬ 
land,  Ohio.  It  constituted  the  largest 
student  convention  ever  held,  there  be¬ 
ing  about  600  volunteers  present  from 
159  institutions,  representing  all  parts  of 
the  United  States  and  Canada  east  of 
the  Rocky  Mountains.  In  addition  to 
the  students  there  were  thirty-three  rep¬ 
resentatives  of  the  leading  missionary 
societies  of  the  United  States  and  Can¬ 
ada,  over  thirty  returned  missionaries 
representing  every  quarter  of  the  globe, 
and  over  fifty  other  Christian  workers. 
This  Convention  gave  the  Movement 


25 


standing  in  the  eyes  of  the  leaders  of  the 
missionary  work  of  the  Church.  The 
most  conservative  among  them  as  they 
came  to  understand  its  methods  and 
spirit  gave  it  the  weight  of  their  unquali¬ 
fied  approval.  During  this  year  the 
Movement  was  represented  in  the  field 
by  Mr.  W.  H.  Cossum,  of  Colgate  Uni¬ 
versity,  who  is  now  at  work  in  China. 
Several  hundreds  of  volunteers  were 
added  to  the  roll;  and  much  was  done 
toward  making  the  bands  studying  and 
working  centers.  Miss  Lucy  E.  Guin¬ 
ness,  of  England,  spent  nearly  three 
months  among  the  women  of  our  col¬ 
leges,  both  in  coeducational  institutions 
and  in  distinctively  women’s  colleges, 
and  enrolled  at  least  240  volunteers. 
This  marked  a  very  successful  beginning 
of  special  efforts  for  this  class — a  phase 
of  work  very  much  neglected  up  to  that 
time. 

The  past  year  (1891-92)  has  been  a 
year  of  education.  Mr.  J.  Campbell 
White,  of  the  University  of  Wooster,  as 
Traveling  Secretary,  has  devoted  much 
of  his  time,  in  the  100  institutions  which 


26 


he  visited,  to  the  much-needed  work  oi 
marking  out  courses  of  study  and  lines  of 
work  for  the  volunteer .  bands.  Miss 
Eloise  Mayham  has  pursued  a  similar 
policy  in  her  thorough  work  among  the 
young  women  in  thirty-five  additional 
institutions.  They  have  been  supple¬ 
mented  in  this  by  Mr.  Clark,  at  the 
office,  who  has  also  developed  the  pub¬ 
lication  department.  Moreover,  at  the 
Student  Summer  Schools,  missionary 
institutes  have  been  established  for  train¬ 
ing  leaders  of  the  various  volunteer 
bands.  The  inauguration  of  these  insti¬ 
tutes  marked  the  greatest  advance  of 
the  year  in  the  development  of  the 
Movement.  The  life  and  efficiency  of 
the  Movement  depend  chiefly  on  the  life 
and  efficiency  of  the  individual  bands; 
and  that  in  turn  depends  principally 
upon  the  life  and  efficiency  of  the  lead¬ 
ers  of  the  bands.  There  was  also  car¬ 
ried  on  during  the  year  a  thorough  in¬ 
vestigation  into  the  exact  condition  and 
problems  of  the  Movement.  This  in¬ 
volved  a  complete  examination  of  the 
records  of  all  the  volunteers  as  filed  in 


27 


the  office,  and  a  careful  inquiry  into  the 
status  of  the  bands  themselves.  As  a 
result  of  a  better  understanding  of  the 
tendencies  of  the  Movement  several 
changes  in  its  methods  and  policy  were 
made. 

The  most  important  of  these  possibly 
was  the  change  in  the  wording  of  the 
volunteer  pledge;  or,  as  it  is  better  called 
in  Great  Britain,  the  volunteer  declara¬ 
tion.  This  was  effected  on  July  14, 
1892,  at  the  close  of  the  World’s  Stud¬ 
ent  Conference  at  Northfield  in  a  joint 
meeting  of  members  of  the  Executive 
Committees  of  the  Volunteer  Movement 
in  Great  Britain,  and  in  the  United 
States  and  Canada.  The  old  wording 
was:  “I  am  willing  and  desirous,  God 
permitting,  to  become  a  foreign  mission¬ 
ary.”  As  changed,  it  reads:  “It  is  my 
purpose,  if  God  permit,  to  become  a 
foreign  missionary.”  The  former  word¬ 
ing  has,  as  a  rule,  where  it  has  been 
carefully  explained,  been  understood  to 
mean  simply  purpose.  At  the  same  time 
experience  had  proved  that  it  had  been 
difficult  for  some  men  who  had  employed 


28 


the  old  declaration  to  make  its  real 
meaning  clear;  and,  moreover,  that  in 
some  cases,  even  when  clearly  presented, 
it  had  been  misunderstood.  It  was  be¬ 
lieved  by  the  two  Committees  that  the 
new  form  of  declaration  would  be  much 
more  easily  explained,  and,  therefore, 
much  less  likely  to  be  misinterpreted. 
It  was  decided  that  the  new  declaration 
should  be  signed  only  by  students  who 
might  volunteer  thereafter. 

III.  ACHIEVEMENTS. 

i.  Several  thousands  of  students  have 
been  led  by  the  Volunteer  Movement  to 
take  the  advanced  step  of  consecration 
involved  in  forming  the  purpose  to  be¬ 
come  foreign  missionaries.  In  the  large 
majority  of  cases  this  decision  has  been 
formed  in  the  spirit  of  prayer,  and  solely 
as  unto  God.  The  Biblical  argument 
has  influenced  far  more  men  than  even 
the  vivid  presentation  of  the  needs  of 
the  fields.  The  most  powerful  consid¬ 
eration  has  been  the  thought  of  loyalty 
to  Jesus  Christ  by  obeying  his  last  com¬ 
mand.  Well  might  Dr.  McCosh  ask 
before  the  Movement  was  two  years  old: 


29 


“Has  any  such  offering  of  living  young 
men  and  women  been  presented  in  our 
age,  in  our  country,  in  any  age,  or  in 
any  country,  since  the  day  of  Pente¬ 
cost  ?  ” 

2.  Over  five  hundred  volunteers  have 
already  gone  to  the  foreign  field  under 
the  various  missionary  agencies,  and 
fully  one  hundred  more  are  under  ap¬ 
pointment.  A  noted  foreign  missionary, 
while  at  a  conference  in  this  country 
three  years  ago  said,  that  not  more  than 
two  per  cent  of  those  who  volunteered 
in  a  missionary  revival  ever  sailed.  But 
already,  seven  per  cent  of  the  members 
of  this  Movement  have  sailed,  and  fully 
ten  per  cent  of  the  Canadian  contingent. 
Moreover,  a  large  majority  of  the  vol¬ 
unteers  are  still  in  the  various  stages  of 
preparation.  The  following  list  of  coun¬ 
tries  in  which  volunteers  are  already 
working,  indicates  their  wide  distribu¬ 
tion:  North,  East,  West  and  South 
Africa;  Arabia,  Burma,  China,  Corea, 
India,  Japan,  Persia,  Siam  and  Laos; 
Syria  and  Turkey;  Bulgaria  and  Italy) 
Central  America  and  Mexico;  Brazil? 


30 


Chili  and  the  United  States  of  Columbia; 
and  the  South  Sea  Islands. 

3.  By  means  of  this  Movement,  mis¬ 
sionary  intelligence,  methods,  enthusi¬ 
asm,  and  consecration  have  been  carried 
into  three  hundred  colleges  on  this  con¬ 
tinent.  In  1885,  there  was  compara¬ 
tively  no  interest  in  missions,  save  in  a 
few  of  these  institutions.  Now  the 
missionary  department  of  the  College 
Young  Men’s  and  Young  Women’s  Chris¬ 
tian  Associations,  is  probably  the  best 
developed,  and  certainly  one  of  the  most 
influential  departments  in  their  entire 
scheme  of  work.  To-day  there  are 
nearly  six  times  as  many  students  in  these 
colleges  who  expect  to  be  foreign  mis¬ 
sionaries  as  there  were  at  the  inception 
of  the  Movement.  At  least  one-fifth  of 
the  officers  of  the  Christian  Associations 
are  volunteers;  although  the  volunteers 
constitute  but  one-fifteenth  of  the  active 
membership.  Another  important  fact 
should  not  be  lost  sight  of,  and  that  is 
that  every  volunteer  who  sails,  means 
more  than  one  missionary.  He  stands 
for  a  large  constituency  who  are 


31 


interested  in  the  work  because  he  goes. 
Who  can  measure  the  importance  of 
thus  enlisting  the  intelligent  sympathy 
and  co-operation  of  thousands  who  are 
to  remain  at  home,  in  the  great  mission¬ 
ary  undertakings  of  the  Church? 

4.  Missionary  interest  has  also  been 
intensified  in  forty-five  theological  semi¬ 
naries.  Special  missionary  statistics 
concerning  the  seminaries  show  that  the 
number  of  prospective  missionaries  has 
been  greatly  increased  during  the  past 
few  years.  Prior  to  1886,  it  has  been 
stated  that  one  ordained  minister  out  of 
seventy-seven  had  gone  into  the  foreign 
field.  Since  then,  over  eleven  per  cent 
of  the  seminary  undergraduates  have 
volunteered  for  foreign  service.  A  more 
comprehensive  study  of  missions  is  be¬ 
ing  carried  on  by  seminary  men.  As  a 
result  of  such  study,  and  of  the  ob¬ 
ject-lesson  of  so  many  devoting  their 
lives  to  the  cause  of  missions,  the  men 
who  are  to  enter  the  home  pastorate  are 
realizing  as  never  before,  their  special 
responsibility  to  the  world  field.  The 
Movement  is  thus  rendering  an  invaluable 


32 

service.  One  of  the  veteran  mission¬ 
ary  secretaries  of  America,  recently  said 
that  the  great  need  to-day  is  that  of  a 
generation  of  missionary  pastors  to  sup¬ 
plement  the  missionary  volunteers  by 
spreading  missionary  intelligence  and 
keeping  the  conscience  of  the  Church 
sensitive  on  the  subject  of  the  divine 
claims  of  foreign  missions. 

5.  When  this  Movement  began  its 
work  in  the  institutions  of  higher  learn¬ 
ing  it  found  less  than  a  dozen  collections 
of  missionary  books  which  were  abreast 
of  the  times.  Extended  search  now  and 
then  revealed  a  few  of  the  old  class  of 
missionary  biographies  and  broken  files 
of  missionary  society  reports.  In  very 
few  cases  could  there  have  been  found 
in  the  reading  room  a  missionary  peri¬ 
odical.  For  seven  years  the  represen¬ 
tatives  of  the  Movement  have  been  em¬ 
phasizing  in  season  and  out  of  season 
the  importance  of  continued  study  of 
the  best  and  latest  missionary  books  and 
papers.  Through  their  influence  care¬ 
fully  selected  missionary  libraries  have 
been  introduced  into  fully  seventy-five 


33 


institutions;  and,  in  the  aggregate,  sev¬ 
eral  thousands  of  dollars  worth  of  the 
most  helpful  and  stimulating  books 
have  been  scattered  throughout  the  stu¬ 
dent  field.  It  would  be  difficult  now  to 
find  an  institution  where  there  are  not 
now  two  or  more  missionary  periodicals 
on  file.  Some  of  the  best  missionary 
works  of  Great  Britain  have,  through 
the  influence  of  the  Movement,  been  in¬ 
troduced  into  wide  and  general  circula¬ 
tion. 

6.  The  plan  for  colleges  and  theo¬ 
logical  seminaries  to  support  their  own 
missionaries  under  their  respective 
boards  has  been  promoted.  The  semi¬ 
naries  have  been  led  to  treble  their  con¬ 
tributions,  and  the  colleges,  which  be¬ 
fore  1886  were  giving  practically  noth¬ 
ing  to  missionary  work,  have  for  several 
years  been  giving  over  $10,000  each 
year.  It  should  be  stated  that  this 
amount  comes  from  only  about  one- 
tenth  of  the  institutions.  The  import¬ 
ance  of  having  students  acquire  the 
habit  of  giving  systematically  to  the  cause 
of  missions  cannot  be  overestimated. 


34 


They  will  not  abandon  it  after  they 
leave  the  college  and  the  seminary, 
but  as  leaders  in  their  churches  they  will 
do  much  to  solve  the  financial  problem 
of  missions. 

7.  It  may  truthfully  be  said  that  the 
Volunteer  Movement  has  done  more 
than  all  other  agencies  combined  to  em¬ 
phasize  the  idea  that  each  church  should 
support  its  own  missionary.  Volun¬ 
teers  have  elaborated  the  plan  and  have 
also  printed  and  circulated  a  pamphlet 
clearly  setting  it  forth.  Moreover,  they 
have  actually  introduced  it  in  many 
churches  of  different  denominations  with 
the  most  gratifying  results.  A  large 
number  of  strong  testimonials  have  been 
collected.  The  following  given  by  the 
Secretaries  of  the  Foreign  Mission  Board 
of  the  Presbyterian  Church,  U.  S.  A.,  is 
a  striking  recognition  of  the  importance 
of  this  work: 

“We  have  before  us  a  long  list  of  testimonials 
from  pastors  who  have  tried  the  experiment  with 
most  gratifying  results;  and  we  are  assured  that 
if  this  method  should  become  general  throughout 
the  churches,  it  would  mark  a  new  era  of  progress- 
in  foreign  missions,  while,  by  its  reflex  influence 


35 


at  home,  it  would  bring  one  of  the  greatest  bless¬ 
ings  that  the  church  has  experienced  in  a  genera¬ 
tion. 

*  *  *  We  gladly  recognize  the  influence 
which  has  been  exerted  along  these  lines  by  the 
Student  Volunteer  Movement  in  our  colleges  and 
theological  seminaries.  *****  And  we 
recognize  with  equal  clearness  and  satisfaction 
the  large  part  which  this  movement  has  had  in 
arousing  churches,  Young  Men’s  Christian  Asso¬ 
ciations,  Christian  Endeavor  Societies,  etc.,  to  a 
new  interest  and  to  a  more  adequate  contribution 
of  means.  *****  The  interest  which 
they  (the  volunteers)  create  and  the  funds  which 
they  raise  are  a  clear  gain.  ****** 

So  far  as  the  Presbyterian  churches  are  con¬ 
cerned,  we  most  heartily  commend  the  work.” 

F.  F.  Ellinwood,  ) 

Arthur  Mitchell,  >•  Secretaries. 

Jno.  Gillespie,  ) 

William  Dulles,  Treasurer. 

New  York,  Nov.  6,  1890. 

8.  The  success  of  the  Volunteer 
Movement  in  the  United  States  and  Can¬ 
ada  has  been  so  marked  that  its  influence 
has  already  been  strongly  felt  in  British 
and  Continental  universities.  The  del¬ 
egates  who  have  come  from  these  insti¬ 
tutions  from  year  to  year,  have  been  par¬ 
ticularly  impressed  by  this  student 


36 


missionary  uprising,  and  have  done  much 
to  carry  back  its  methods  and  spirit. 
Messrs.  Forman,  Reynolds,  Wishard 
and  McConaughy  have  also  at  different 
times  done  not  a  little  toward  bringing 
its  principles  to  the  attention  of  Europe¬ 
an  students.  To  Mr.  Wilder  is  due  in 
large  part  the  credit  of  actually  organiz¬ 
ing  the  Movement  in  Great  Britain  and 
Scandinavia.  For  two  years  students 
from  these  countries  had  urged  the 
Executive  Committee  to  send  some  rep¬ 
resentative  to  Europe.  Mr.  Wilder  was 
induced  to  undertake  this  mission  while 
on  his  way  to  India  in  1892.  An  organ¬ 
ization  to  direct  the  work  among  the 
universities  of  Great  Britain  was  per¬ 
fected  in  April,  at  Edinburgh.  It  was 
modeled  very  closely  after  the  organiza¬ 
tion  which  has  worked  so  successfully 
on  this  side.  The  organization  of  the 
Movement  in  Scandinavia  is  just  now 
taking  definite  shape.  A  striking  fact 
is  the  recent  introduction  of  the  Move¬ 
ment  in  three  institutions  of  South 
Africa.  This  resulted  from  reading  ac¬ 
counts  of  the  Movement  in  this  country. 


37 


Miss  Rose  J.  Sears,  a  Wellesley  volun¬ 
teer,  teaching  in  the  Huguenot  Seminary, 
at  Wellington,  Cape  Colony,  united  and 
organized  the  three  groups  of  volunteers. 

9.  Another  thing  achieved  by  the 
the  Movement,  while  not  as  tangible  as 
some  of  the  other  points  named,  has 
been  nevertheless  just  as  real  and  im¬ 
portant;  and  that  is  the  emphasis  which 
it  has  constantly  given  to  the  idea  of 
the  evangelization  of  the  world  in  this  gen¬ 
eration.  In  over  four  hundred  centers 
of  learning  this  key-note  has  been  sound¬ 
ed  year  after  year  in  the  ears  of  those 
who  are  soon  to  be  the  leaders  of  the 
different  evangelical  church  agencies. 
At  hundreds  of  conventions,  in  all  parts 
of  Canada  and  the  United  States,  it  has 
been  proclaimed  with  convincing  power. 
In  thousands  of  churches  it  has  appeal¬ 
ed  to  the  loyalty  of  Christians,  and 
evoked  a  sympathetic  response.  It  has 
differentiated  the  Volunteer  Movement 
from  every  other  missionary  movement 
undertaken  by  students.  It  constitutes  at 
once  its  ultimate  purpose  and  its  inspira¬ 
tion.  More  and  more  as  the  volunteers 


38 

prayerfully  look  through  the  doors 
of  faith  opening  to-day  unto  every  na¬ 
tion,  ponder  the  last  command  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  consider  the  resources  of  His 
Church — they  are  convinced  of  the  ne¬ 
cessity,  duty,  possibility,  and  probability 
of  realizing  their  watchcry. 


IV.  PRESENT  STATUS. 

During  the  past  year  an  extensive  cor¬ 
respondence  has  been  instituted  with 
the  volunteers  for  the  purpose  of  re¬ 
ceiving  information  for  statistics.  A 
large  proportion  of  the  volunteers  have 
responded,  and  the  following  figures 
are  based  upon  the  returns,  and  are  con¬ 
sidered  safe  estimates. 

■  •-  ^  ^  _  _ 

V.  PURPOSE. 

1.  The  Student  Volunteer  Movement 
seeks  to  enroll  volunteers  in  the  colleges 
and  theological  seminaries  in  numbers 
sufficient  to  meet  all  the  demands  made 
upon  it  by  the  foreign  missionary  agen¬ 
cies  on  this  continent. 

2.  This  Movement  aims  to  carry  the 
missionary  spirit  into  every  institution 


43 


of  higher  learning  in  the  United  States 
and  Canada;  and  to  co-operate  with  sim¬ 
ilar  movements  in  other  lands.  The 
power  which  will  thus  come  from  unit¬ 
ing  the  Christian  students  of  the  world 
to  carry  out  the  last  command  of  Jesus 
Christ  will  be  irresistible. 

3.  Not  only  does  the  Movement  plan 
to  enlist  volunteers,  but  also  to  guard 
and  develop  them  until  they  pass  beyond 
its  proper  sphere  of  influence.  This  in¬ 
volves  the  organizing  of  the  volunteers 
into  bands;  outlining  courses  of  study 
for  them;  enlisting  them  in  active  work 
for  missions  on  educational,  financial, 
and  spiritual  lines;  making  the  bands 
praying  and  self-perpetuating  centers; 
and,  finally,  helping  to  bring  the  volun¬ 
teers  into  touch  with  the  various  mis¬ 
sionary  societies  or  boards. 

4.  As  the  financial  problem  is  one  of 
the  most  serious  which  to-day  confronts 
every  missionary  agency,  the  volunteers 
propose  to  do  all  within  their  power  to 
hasten  its  solution.  An  effort  is  being 
made  to  have  each  volunteer  before  sail 
ing  secure  a  financial  constituency,  and 


44 


so  10  cultivate  it  as  to  ensure  his  sup¬ 
port  on  the  field.  The  plan  of  having 
each  church  support  its  own  missionary 
will  be  introduced  as  widely  as  possible. 
Moreover,  recognizing  the  wonderful 
possibilities  of  the  various  young  peo¬ 
ple’s  societies  of  the  day,  the  Volunteer 
Movement  is  making  a  special  effort  to 
secure  their  active  co-operation.  These 
two  great  movements,  called  into  being 
during  the  same  decade,  are  destined  to 
supplement  each  other  in  their  service 
to  world-wide  evangelization. 

5.  By  far  the  greatest  need  of  modern 
missions  is  that  of  united,  definite,  im¬ 
portunate  prayer.  This  alone  will  lead 
the  Church  in  this  time  of  times  to  lift 
up  her  eyes  and  behold  the  fields. 
Moreover,  the  Christians  of  the  two 
wealthiest  nations  on  the  face  of  the 
earth  will  never  give  as  they  should  un¬ 
til  selfishness  and  practical  unbelief  in 
the  great  designs  of  God  are  swept 
away  by  the  prayers  of  men  who  believe 
in  God.  And  beyond  all  this,  the  thous¬ 
ands  of  consecrated  students  who  have 
given  themselves  to  this  work  will  never 


45 


reach  the  great  harvest  fields  of  the 
world  until  there  is  absolute  compliance 
with  the  human  condition  laid  down  by 
the  Lord  in  His  command:  “Pray  ye 
therefore,  the  Lord  of  the  harvest  that 
He  send  forth  laborers  into  His  har¬ 
vest.”  Each  volunteer  band,  therefore,  is 
urged  to  become  a  “school  of  prayer;” 
and  each  volunteer  wherever  he  goes 
should  have  as  his  greatest  burden  the 
deepening  of  the  prayer  life  of  the 
Church. 

6.  Underlying  all  these  forms  of  pur¬ 
pose  is  that  ultimate  and  fundamental 
object  of  the  Student  Volunteer  Move¬ 
ment — the  evangelization  of  the  world  in 
this  generation.  This  is  the  watchcry  of 
the  volunteers.  What  does  it  mean? 
It  does  not  mean  the  conversion,  or  the 
Christianization,  or  the  civilization  of 
the  world — no  matter  how  much  the 
volunteers  may  believe  in  each  of  these. 
It  does  mean  that  the  Christians  of  this 
generation  are  to  give  every  person  of 
this  age  an  opportunity  to  accept  Jesus 
Christ.  The  volunteers  believe  that  this 
is  an  awful  necessity,  because  without 


46 

it  millions  will  perish.  They  believe 
that  it  is  a  solemn  duty  because 
Christ  has  commanded  it.  They  be¬ 
lieve  that  it  is  a  possibility  because  of 
the  inspired  object-lesson  of  its  achieve¬ 
ment  by  the  early  Christian  Church  un¬ 
der  far  more  adverse  circumstances  than 
those  which  confront  the  Church  of  the 
nineteenth  century.  They  believe  it  is 
a  probability  because  of  the  reasonable¬ 
ness  of  the  demands  of  the  missionaries 
themselves  in  order  that  this  may  be 
accomplished.  Within  the  last  few 
years,  in  the  two  most  densely  populat¬ 
ed,  and,  in  many  respects  most  difficult 
fields  in  the  world,  large  conferences  of 
missionaries  have  declared  with  confi¬ 
dence  that,  this  can  be  done.  The  vol¬ 
unteers  say,  if  they  at  the  front  sound 
the  battle-cry,  should  we  at  the  rear  beat 
a  retreat?  The  convocation  of  mission¬ 
aries  in  India,  whose  estimate  corres¬ 
ponds  with  that  of  the  conference  in 
China,  claimed  that  at  least  one  foreign 
missionary  would  be  needed  for  every 
fifty  thousand  people  in  unevangelized 
lands.  This  means  then  that  twenty 


47 

thousand  missionaries  are  needed  in 
order  to  “preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature”  within  this  generation.  To 
say  nothing  of  the  great  student  centers 
of  Great  Britain  and  Scandinavia,  is 
that  too  large  a  number  to  ask  for  and 
to  expect  from  the  colleges  and  semi¬ 
naries  of  the  United  States  and  Canada? 
There  are  two  States  in  this  country 
each  of  which  has  in  its  institutions  of 
higher  learning  more  than  twenty  thous¬ 
and  students.  Over  two  million  young 
men  and  women  will  go  out  from  the  in¬ 
stitutions  of  Canada  and  America  within 
this  generation.  The  foreign  field  calls 
for  only  one  one-hundredth  of  them.  But 
where  will  the  money  come  from  to  send 
and  support  them?  It  would  take  less 
than  one  six-hundreth  of  the  present 
wealth  of  the  Christians  of  America. 
Stated  in  another  form,  it  would  easily 
be  secured  should  each  of  the  over  two 
millions  of  members  of  our  many  young 
people’s  Christian  organizations  raise 
but  three  cents  each  day. 

There  are  men  and  women  enough  to 
spare  for  this  grandest  mission  of  the 


48 


ages.  There  is  money  enough  to  spare 
to  send  them.  May  the  Spirit  of  Christ 
lead  His  Church  to  pray  the  prayer  of 
faith,  and  to  consecrate  her  men  and 
money  to  the  carrying  out  of  His  last 
command! 


Student  Volunteer  Series. 


7.  History  of  the  Student  Volunteer  Movement 
for  Foreign  Missions.  John  R.  Mott. 
Price,  ten  cents. 

2.  Shall  I  go?  Thoughts  for  girls.  Miss  Grace 

E.  Wilder.  Price,  five  cents. 

3.  Prayer  and  Missions.  Robert  E.  Speer. 

Price,  five  cents. 

4.  The  Volunteer  Band.  Robert  E.  Speer.  Price, 

five  cents. 

5.  The  Self-Perpetuation  of  the  Volunteer 

Band.  J.  Campbell  White.  Price,  five  cents. 

6.  Ten  Lessons  on  the  Bible  and  Missions. 

J.  Campbell  White.  Price,  five  cents. 

7.  The  Volunteer  Band  Meeting.  J.  Campbell 

White.  Price,  five  cents. 

8.  The  Bible  and  Missions..  Robert  P.  Wilder. 

Price,  five  cents. 


In  quantities  of  one  dozen  or  more,  No.  i  is  sold 
at  $i.oo  per  dozen;  in  quantities  of  fifty  or  more 
at  $7.00  per  hundred.  In  same  quantities  Nos.  2 
to  8  are  sold  at  50  cents  per  dozen,  or  $3.50  per 
hundred. 


Student  Volunteer  Movement  for  Foreign  Missions 


HICAGO,  ILL. 


8Q Institute  Place. 

Nos.  5-8  ready  after  December  1,  1892. 


