Property  op  the 
MEMORIAL  HALL  LIBRARY 

Andqv^se  -      r, 

Gift  of  A  :U'.-.  V  i----.  i..  !■■'-• 

T;.iO LOGICAL  SCHOOL 


3  1330  00133  7777 


m 


MEMORIAL  HALL 
LTORARY 

Andover,  Massachusetts 
475-6%0 


:^^Mi 


HILLS    LIBRARY    AND    FARWELL    HALL    IN    NEWTON 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2013 


http://archive.org/details/historyofandoverOOrowe 


'^n(''- 


^Oij\je,  \\enr^  kcdlozri 


HISTORY 

OF 

^nflovier  Theological  ^eminarg 

BY   HENRY   K.  ROWE 


NEWTON,  MASSACHUSETTS 
1933 


Thomas  Todd  Company    "5133 
Printers    'Boston 


i^^^ 


fo 


u^ 


CO 

?■  TO 

^;  VAUGHAN   DABNEY 

Hi 


PREFACE 

THE  various  interests  of  mankind  are  served  by  social 
institutions  which  have  arisen  and  have  been  sanc- 
tioned by  society  because  they  are  valuable  for  the 
preservation  and  better  ordering  of  the  achievements  of  civ- 
ilization. Among  these  are  churches  and  schools.  Ministers 
of  colonial  churches  in  America  had  been  educated  overseas 
or  went  to  Harvard,  Yale,  and  other  colonial  colleges.  Late  in 
the  eighteenth  century  the  time  came  when  a  distinctively 
theological  school  seemed  preferable,  and  the  Seminary  was 
the  answer  to  the  need.  Andover  was  the  first  such  institu- 
tion among  the  Congregationalists,  the  first  in  New  England 
of  any  Christian  denomination. 

The  eminence  of  Andover  among  American  theological 
schools,  the  new  departure  which  it  is  making  in  its  affilia- 
tion with  Newton,  and  the  arrival  of  the  one  hundred  and 
twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  Seminary,  seem  sufficient 
reason  for  this  historical  sketch.  Andover  alumni  have  been 
distinguished  in  the  parish  ministry,  in  home  and  foreign 
missions,  in  education  and  literature.  Andover  professors — 
Stuart,  Phelps,  Park,  Smyth,  Tucker,  Harris,  Thayer,  Moore 
and  Evans — have  given  the  school  an  enviable  reputation  for 
scholarship. 

In  spite  of  hindrance,  misfortune,  even  near  tragedy,  the 
old  institution  still  lives,  and  by  the  faith  that  has  sustained 
it  faces  the  future  with  courage.  The  history  of  Andover 
Theological  Seminary  is  a  story  worth  the  telling ;  may  it  be 
an  inspiration  to  those  who  read  it. 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

I.     The  Founding  of  the  Seminary        ...  i 

II.     Seminary  Life  in  the  Early  Years  ...  23 

III.  Students  and  Faculty 40 

IV.  The  Middle  Decades 62 

V.     Andover  Men  in  the  Parish  Ministry    .        .  86 

VI.     Andover  Men  in  Foreign  Missions  .         .        .  iii 

VII.     Andover  Men  in  Education  and  Literature    .  136 

VIII.     The  New  Theology 159 

IX.     Liberty  and  Union     .         .         .        .         .         .  185 


CHAPTER    I 

THE  FOUNDING  OF  THE  SEMINARY 

HIGH  up  from  a  beetling  cliff  in  the  White  Mountains 
of  New  Hampshire  the  Old  Man  of  the  Mountain 
thrusts  his  rugged  profile,  keeping  ward  over  the 
Franconia  valley.  From  a  tarn  at  his  foot  a  tiny  stream  be- 
gins to  flow  its  fretted  way  through  the  forest  until,  grown 
larger,  it  emerges  into  the  ampler  reaches  of  the  valley  below. 
Increased  in  volume  by  tributary  streams,  it  becomes  the 
Merrimac.  Even  well  down  stream  its  way  is  hindered  by 
rocks  and  ledges,  and  at  length  it  is  forced  to  leave  its  south- 
ward course  and  find  an  uncharted  route  in  another  direction. 
Yet  unconquered  it  moves  steadily  towards  its  goal  until  it 
merges  with  the  open  sea. 

Herein  is  a  parable  of  Andover  Seminary. 

Old  Andover  stood  on  an  ancient  hill  whose  northern  slope 
blends  with  the  valley  of  the  Merrimac.  Its  undergirding 
rock  is  older  than  the  strata  of  the  mountains  where  the  river 
had  its  birth.  On  that  rock  New  England  Congregationalism 
fitly  built  its  ecclesiastical  foundation.  As  the  Merrimac  was 
born  under  the  majesty  of  the  Great  Stone  Face,  the  school 
at  Andover  was  cradled  under  the  stern  sovereignty  of  Cal- 
vinism. As  the  stream  is  hindered  on  its  way  by  rocks,  so 
Andover  has  been  buffeted  by  theological  controversy.  As 
the  Merrimac  found  a  new  direction  to  the  sea,  so  Andover 
Seminary  after  the  career  of  a  century  changed  its  course, 
but  not  its  goal. 

Andover  Seminary  was  built  sturdily  to  breast  the  gales 
that  beat  against  Puritan  orthodoxy,  as  Brick  Row  on  An- 
dover Hill  fronted  the  northern  blasts  that  in  winter  sweep 
unchecked  from  the  far  Laurentian  highlands  of  Canada. 
The  halls  of  the  Seminary  were  permeated  by  a  theology  as 


cold  and  as  irresistible.  The  sunset  sky  at  times  was  reddened 
with  a  glow  that  was  lurid  enough  to  remind  a  student  of  the 
destiny  of  the  damned.  Cofifins  fashioned  in  the  workshop 
by  student  hands  were  grim  reminders  of  the  brevity  of  Hfe. 
The  chapel  bell  rang  its  compelling  summons  to  classes  and 
funerals,  with  that  "sweet,  solemn  solemnity"  which  was  so 
tuneful  to  the  ears  of  the  elect,  but  boded  only  ill  to  those 
who  were  unregenerate.  And  hard  by  the  winter  snows  drifted 
over  the  graves  of  students  who  had  died  before  their  time 
and  lay  in  the  winding  sheet  of  God's  Acre. 

Andover  was  different  in  summer.  Then  her  fields  lay  lush 
and  green,  and  her  elms  drooped  gracefully  over  the  shaded 
campus.  Students  attended  classes  even  in  July,  but  there 
were  walks  and  talks  on  the  campus  and  about  town,  and  the 
men  rambled  at  times  over  the  surrounding  country.  Classes 
were  not  dull  to  those  who  enjoyed  logic  and  argument,  and 
in  summer  bird  song  mingled  with  theological  phrases  and 
the  scent  of  new-mown  hay  drifted  through  the  open  windows. 
On  occasion  classes  were  dismissed  because  a  professor 
wanted  the  help  of  the  students  in  getting  in  his  crop  of  hay. 
Professors'  families  in  time  even  went  on  picnics.  Eventually 
Puritan  rigor  relaxed  until  the  church  sociable  was  invented, 
a  pastime  neither  grave  nor  gay,  but  enjoyable  to  those  who 
might  not  venture  to  break  the  taboos  against  lighter  amuse- 
ment. When  the  eminent  Dr.  Tholuck  of  Germany  was  call- 
ing upon  Professor  Park  he  remarked :  "  How  do  you  get 
along  without  the  opera  and  theatre?"  And  the  reply  was 
prompt :  "You  forget  that  we  have  the  church  and  the  sewing 
society."  And  there  was  always  Commencement  Day  to  an- 
ticipate and  recall. 

And  the  theology  of  Andover  mellowed  with  the  years. 

In  the  lower  valley  the  first  settlers  of  Andover  made  their 
homes  within  fifteen  years  of  the  colonization  of  Boston. 
By  1644  l^i^d  had  been  purchased  from  the  Indians,  scattered 
farms  had  been  occupied,  and  a  village  had  been  started  at 
the  northern  end  of  the  town.  There  in  the  North  Parish 
the  first  Congregational  church  was  organized  in  1645.  By 
mid-century    Andover    people    were    making    highways    to 

i2y 


Ipswich,  Rowley,  and  Newbury.  At  times  the  town  suffered 
materially  from  Indian  raids  down  the  Merrimac  valley,  but 
it  was  disturbed  in  mind  even  more  by  the  witchcraft  delusion, 
which  resulted  in  the  judicial  murder  of  three  persons.  In 
the  mental  sanity  of  the  eighteenth  century  they  laid  the 
foundations  of  Andover's  educational  reputation. 

Among  the  best  people  of  the  community  the  Phillips  family 
took  first  rank.  Its  ancestor  was  Reverend  George  Phillips, 
who  went  from  Salem  to  Watertown  in  the  earliest  days  of 
Massachusetts  settlement.  His  son  Samuel  was  minister  of 
the  Congregational  church  in  Rowley  for  nearly  half  a  cen- 
tury. Samuel's  grandson  and  namesake  settled  over  the  South 
Parish  in  Andover  in  1710.  His  son  Samuel  was  prominent 
in  Andover,  and  before  he  died  he  could  write  Honorable 
before  his  name.  A  second  son,  John,  settled  in  Exeter,  and 
became  as  respected  as  his  brother.  These  two  brothers 
founded  and  endowed  Phillips  Academy  on  Andover  Hill 
in  the  year  1778.  But  it  was  the  influence  of  Samuel's  son, 
Samuel,  Junior,  which  led  them  to  establish  the  foundation. 
The  young  man  was  the  only  heir  of  his  father  and  his  uncle, 
but  he  was  eager  to  sacrifice  a  part  of  his  inheritance  for  the 
sake  of  a  school,  and  it  was  he  who  had  most  to  do  with 
the  establishment  of  the  Academy.  Later,  as  Judge  PhiUips, 
he  was  admired  by  his  fellow-townsmen,  and  was  honored  by 
the  Commonwealth  with  the  office  of  Lieutenant  Governor. 
He  died  at  the  age  of  fifty,  but  his  widow  and  his  son  John 
continued  to  take  an  interest  in  education.  It  was  they  who 
became  sponsors  of  Andover  Theological  Seminary. 

The  south  village  of  Andover  rises  in  a  southerly  direction 
to  the  crown  of  a  hill.  It  was  there  that  the  Academy  was 
located  and  there  that  the  Seminary  was  to  rise.  Not  a  few  of 
the  hilltops  of  New  England  have  been  set  apart  as  shrines 
of  education  or  religion.  Whether  it  seemed  as  if  an  aureole 
of  divinity  rested  peculiarly  upon  the  hills,  or  as  if  the  expand- 
ing mind  might  reach  out  to  distant  horizons,  the  fathers  chose 
the  hills  for  their  institutions.  As  altars  smoked  on  the  high 
places  of  ancient  Palestine,  so  the  shrine  of  Andover  smoked 
at  times  with  the  fires  of  theological  controversy,  for  the  early 


nineteenth  century  was  an  open  season  for  polemics.  But  sac- 
rifice and  devotion  sent  up  their  invisible  breath  of  the  spirit 
to  an  unseen  God,  and  the  main  purpose  of  the  Seminary  was 
constructive. 

The  Phillips  family  was  loyal  to  religion  as  well  as  to  edu- 
cation. The  blood  of  the  Puritan  ran  in  their  veins.  They 
would  preserve  the  best  traditions  of  the  fathers  at  a  time 
when  liberalism  was  threatening  to  weaken,  or  at  least  to 
change,  those  traditions.  In  their  original  deed  of  gift,  com- 
monly called  the  Constitution  of  Phillips  Academy,  they  there- 
fore provided  that  "whereas  many  of  the  students  in  this 
Seminary  may  be  devoted  to  the  sacred  work  of  the  gospel 
ministry,"  the  school  should  teach  the  fundamentals  of  Chris- 
tian theology,  "as  the  age  and  capacities  of  the  scholars  will 
admit,  not  only  to  instruct  and  establish  them  in  the  truths  of 
Christianity,  but  also  early  and  diligently  to  inculcate  in  them 
the  great  and  important  Scripture  doctrines  of  the  existence 
of  the  one  true  God,  the  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Ghost ;  of  the 
fall  of  man,  the  depravity  of  human  nature ;  the  necessity  of 
an  atonement,  and  our  being  renewed  in  the  spirit  of  our 
minds;  the  doctrines  of  repentance  towards  God,  and  faith 
towards  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ ;  of  sanctification  by  the  Holy 
Spirit,  and  of  justification  by  the  free  grace  of  God,  through 
the  redemption  that  is  in  Christ  Jesus;  together  with  the 
other  important  doctrines  and  duties  of  our  Holy  Christian 
Religion." 

It  was  in  the  minds  of  the  founders  of  the  Academy  to 
establish  a  chair  of  divinity  in  the  school,  and  Dr.  John  Phillips 
of  Exeter  provided  a  scholarship  fund  of  twenty  thousand 
dollars  "  for  the  education  of  youth  of  genius  and  serious  dis- 
position in  the  Academy."  In  1795  he  left  a  legacy,  giving 
one-third  of  his  estate  to  Andover  Academy  to  furnish  aid 
to  students  who  should  study  with  a  Calvinistic  minister, 
until  an  instructor  should  be  appointed  in  Andover  or  Exeter 
academies  as  a  professor  of  divinity.  It  is  easy  to  understand 
how  such  a  man  could  be  the  grandfather  of  Phillips  Brooks. 
To  this  fund  William  Phillips  of  Boston  added  four  thousand 
dollars.   On  that  foundation  twelve  students  of  divinity  were 

i4y 


aided  before  the  establishment  of  the  Seminary,  while  they 
studied  theology  with  Reverend  Jonathan  French,  the  min- 
ister of  the  South  Parish. 

At  the  opening  of  the  nineteenth  century  the  people  of  New 
England  were  taking  a  new  interest  in  religion.  The  devo- 
tion to  their  Puritan  faith,  which  was  characteristic  of  the 
first  generation  of  colonists,  had  yielded  long  since  to  the 
claims  of  everyday  living.  There  had  been  extensive  lands 
to  develop,  and  many  a  pioneer  in  Maine  and  New  Hampshire 
had  helped  to  push  back  the  New  England  frontier.  Others 
had  turned  their  energies  to  the  promotion  of  industry  and 
commerce,  which  promised  more  profit  than  the  cultivation 
of  a  grudging  soil.  Religion  held  an  honored  place  in  the  lives 
of  the  people,  but  it  tended  to  be  formal.  They  had  had  diffi- 
culty in  satisfying  the  early  requirements  of  church  member- 
ship, and  had  lowered  the  standards  of  admission.  The  result 
was  a  lukewarmness  regarding  the  claims  of  religion  that 
boded  ill  for  the  continuing  strength  of  Congregationalism. 
There  was  need  of  a  revival  of  religious  interest. 

The  Great  Awakening  came  marching  up  the  Connecticut 
valley  a  century  after  the  beginnings  of  colonization.  The 
beacon  fires  of  a  renewed  faith  blazed  along  the  coast  and 
from  many  an  interior  hilltop.  At  Northampton  in  Massa- 
chusetts, where  Jonathan  Edwards  preached  in  the  second 
most  prominent  pulpit  in  New  England,  a  revival  swept  the 
community.  Edwards  lashed  the  consciences  of  his  hearers 
with  his  fiery  discourses,  and  George  Whitefield  staged  a 
triumphal  progress  up  the  coast,  and  preached  irresistibly  to 
thousands  of  persons  on  Boston  Common.  But  again  dis- 
tractions of  various  kinds  intensified  the  natural  reaction 
against  religious  excitement.  The  political  excitement  of  the 
Revolutionary  period,  absorption  in  the  repairing  of  damages 
of  war,  the  interest  in  the  experiment  of  making  a  federal 
government,  and  the  economic  problems  that  vexed  the  people, 
chilled  religious  enthusiasm.  The  blight  of  indifference  was 
made  worse  by  the  skepticism  of  many  persons.  French  in- 
fidelity was  popular.  Atheism  was  flaunted  in  the  colleges. 
President  Dwight  of  Yale  found  it  expedient  to  go  thoroughly 


into  the  basic  questions  of  theology  in  his  lecture  room.  Then 
as  the  reaction  against  the  Edwardean  revival  had  led  to  in- 
difiference  and  even  hostility,  a  reawakening  of  religious 
interest  came  as  a  reaction  against  the  indifference  and 
unbelief. 

The  Evangelical  Reawakening,  as  it  is  called,  began  about 
the  close  of  the  eighteenth  century.  It  produced  no  conspicu- 
ous evangelist.  Local  preachers  kindled  the  feelings  of  their 
people.  Revivals  flamed  out  like  beacon  lights  of  the  gospel 
from  hill  town  to  hill  town  in  Massachusetts  and  Connecticut. 
The  beginnings  of  the  movement  had  come  even  earlier  in  the 
Middle  States,  and  it  penetrated  to  the  newer  settlements  of 
the  Southwest.  On  that  frontier  the  camp  meetings  produced 
emotional  excitement  similar  to  that  of  the  Great  Awakening, 
but  in  New  England  the  movement  was  saner  and  more  per- 
manent. It  continued  intermittently  for  several  decades,  swell- 
ing from  time  to  time  to  increasing  volume  and  then  subsiding 
only  to  rise  again. 

The  effects  of  the  religious  revival  appeared  in  evangelism, 
missionary  activity  at  home  and  abroad,  and  increased  interest 
in  Christian  education.  Pastors  of  churches  preached  with 
new  fervor  and  visited  neighboring  communities  with  evan- 
gelistic intent.  Societies  were  formed  for  the  purpose  of  send- 
ing out  preachers  to  the  expanding  frontiers.  It  was  a  time  for 
the  planting  of  academies  and  colleges.  They  soon  dotted  the 
landscape  of  New  England,  and  accompanied  the  new  churches 
along  the  expanding  frontier. 

It  was  in  this  stirring  period  that  Andover  Seminary  had 
its  birth. 

Among  the  Congregationalists  three  schools  of  religious 
thought  disputed  the  field.  The  first  was  known  as  the  Old 
or  Moderate  Calvinists.  Inheriting  the  theological  convictions 
of  their  Puritan  ancestors,  they  adhered  to  the  Westminster 
Confession  of  the  Presbyterians  as  their  standard  of  doctrine. 
Except  with  regard  to  the  right  wing  of  Strict  Calvinists,  time 
had  softened  somewhat  the  ancient  rigor.  They  believed  in 
the  untrammeled  will  of  God,  the  inherited  depravity  of  man 
and  his  helplessness  because  of  the  imputation  of  Adam's  sin, 


and  the  grace  of  God  as  the  sole  means  of  salvation.  But 
they  thought  it  advisable  to  use  such  means  of  grace  as  the 
church  provided  in  its  worship  and  ordinances,  even  though 
they  would  not  avail  if  the  persons  themselves  were  not  among 
the  number  of  God's  elect.  Baptism  or  the  Lord's  Supper 
might  make  them  more  easily  salvable  if  the  Spirit  of  God 
should  come  their  way.  A  man  hoped  that  thus  the  mercy  of 
God  would  make  his  calling  and  election  sure. 

A  second  group  was  called  Hopkinsians  from  their  doctrinal 
spokesman,  Samuel  Hopkins,  a  pupil  of  Jonathan  Edwards 
in  theology.  Edwards,  besides  being  an  evangelistic  preacher, 
was  a  profound  thinker  on  the  problems  of  the  divine  will  and 
human  salvation.  If  his  sermon  on  "Sinners  in  the  Hands  of 
an  Angry  God"  stirred  the  consciences  of  his  hearers,  his 
theological  arguments  appealed  to  the  reason  of  his  readers 
and  made  him  the  exponent  of  New  England  theology.  Him- 
self a  graduate  of  Yale,  he  put  his  stamp  on  a  whole  genera- 
tion of  Yale  divinity  students.  Samuel  Hopkins  was  his 
understudy,  and  others  took  his  interpretations  of  Calvinism 
as  superior  to  the  theories  of  the  Old  Calvinists.  To  a  layman 
of  these  days  the  distinctions  of  that  time  seem  of  small 
account,  but  the  ministers  regarded  them  as  supremely  im- 
portant. 

Both  parties  accepted  the  Westminster  standards  for  sub- 
stance of  doctrine,  but  the  Hopkinsians  stressed  certain  prin- 
ciples to  an  extreme.  Their  pulpits  reverberated  sonorously 
with  the  echoes  of  divine  sovereignty  and  predestination,  of 
foreknowledge  and  election,  of  total  depravity  and  reproba- 
tion and  eternal  retribution,  but  they  had  improved  explana- 
tions of  their  own  as  to  how  the  divine  and  human  minds 
worked.  Particularly  did  they  explain  the  difference  between 
a  natural  will  which  man  possesses  and  which  makes  him 
capable  of  exposing  himself  to  divine  influences,  and  a  moral 
will  which  must  be  energized  by  the  Spirit  of  God  before  the 
soul  can  make  its  way  into  His  presence.  The  Hopkinsians 
condemned  specific  means  of  grace  as  sinful,  because  such 
means  were  used  for  selfish  spiritual  gain,  whereas  the  true 
attitude  was  one  of  disinterested  benevolence,  like  that  of  God 

i7y 


Himself,  and  unconditional  surrender  to  the  sovereign  will 
of  God.  As  sweet  a  saint  as  Mrs.  Jonathan  Edwards  had 
brought  herself  to  the  state  of  mind  where  she  was  able  to 
say  that  she  was  willing  to  be  damned  if  God  could  be  glorified 
thereby.  Because  the  Hopkinsians  emphasized  the  eternal  de- 
crees of  a  sovereign  God,  they  were  dubbed  hyper-Calvinists ; 
but  because  they  made  so  much  of  the  divine  benevolence, 
they  were  suspected  of  being  Arminian,  which  was  another 
way  of  saying  that  they  were  heretics  in  the  eyes  of  the  ortho- 
dox Puritans.  They  liked  to  speak  of  themselves  as  Con- 
sistent Calvinists. 

The  Old  Calvinists  included  many  of  the  people  of  high 
social  position,  and  their  clergy  were  highly  respected  men. 
They  were  most  numerous  in  the  eastern  part  of  New  Eng- 
land. They  were  not  in  sympathy  with  revivals  as  among  the 
means  of  grace.  The  Hopkinsians  on  the  contrary  were  sym- 
pathetic with  the  revival,  or  New  Light,  Movement.  They 
were  vigorous  in  their  convictions  and  unyielding  in  their 
debates.  Their  strength  centered  at  Yale  College,  and  they 
numbered  a  majority  of  the  Congregational  ministers  in 
Connecticut  and  western  Massachusetts.  Hopkinsianism  was 
proud  of  its  designation  as  the  New  England  theology. 

A  third  party  in  Congregational  circles  was  more  liberal  in 
its  theological  interpretations.  It  had  found  its  inspiration 
in  Charles  Chauncy  and  Jonathan  Mayhew  of  Boston,  who 
had  protested  against  the  extravagances  of  eighteenth  century 
revivalism.  It  cherished  a  belief  that  God  was  not  so  unap- 
proachable as  the  Calvinists  maintained,  nor  so  implacable  in 
His  attitude  towards  the  human  creatures  whom  He  has  made. 
The  thoughtful  men  who  represented  the  Liberals  put  less 
stress  on  the  necessity  of  an  atonement  for  men  through 
Christ  and  more  on  human  righteousness  as  a  recommenda- 
tion of  the  soul  to  God.  They  were  few  in  number  at  first  and 
with  few  exceptions  lived  under  the  shadow  of  Beacon  Hill 
or  nearby,  but  as  the  nineteenth  century  advanced,  they  were 
conscious  of  an  access  of  strength,  and  their  representatives 
became  more  outspoken  in  the  village  pulpits  of  Greater 
Boston.    A   few  of  them  were  avowed  Unitarians.    When 


Reverend  Henry  Ware  of  Hingham  was  elected  to  the  HoUis 
professorship  of  divinity  at  Harvard  College  in  1805,  New 
England  Congregationalism  felt  the  shock,  for  it  was  well 
understood  that  Ware  was  really  a  Unitarian,  and  that  at  Cam- 
bridge his  influence  would  be  radical.  It  was  altogether  Hkely 
that  such  an  event  occurring  at  the  heart  of  Puritan  tradition 
would  set  in  motion  a  desire  for  a  more  orthodox  training 
center  for  the  ministry  in  Massachusetts. 

The  main  purpose  of  New  England  Congregationalists  in 
founding  Harvard  and  Yale  had  been  to  educate  colonial  min- 
isters. There  they  were  wont  to  absorb  divinity  as  a  part  of 
their  college  education,  li  students  could  not  have  the  ad- 
vantages of  Oxford  and  Cambridge  in  Old  England,  they  could 
at  least  imitate  the  discipline.  Harvard  had  felt  liberalizing 
influences,  but  as  staunch  a  Christian  as  Thomas  Hollis,  the 
London  Baptist,  had  chosen  Harvard  for  his  munificence  in 
endowing  a  chair  of  divinity.  His  generosity  showed  his  con- 
fidence in  the  essential  orthodoxy  of  the  college,  though  the 
Hollis  professor  was  required  to  take  a  specific  pledge  scarcely 
less  stringent  than  the  one  adopted  for  Andover.  But  the 
tendency  of  the  period  was  to  introduce  other  studies  in  place 
of  the  older  discipline,  as  science  and  modern  literature  became 
more  popular  in  learned  circles  than  Hebrew  and  Greek. 
Theology  lost  its  position  as  queen  of  the  sciences.  The  Hollis 
professor  continued  to  give  two  courses  for  those  who  planned 
a  ministerial  career,  but  French  might  be  substituted  for 
Hebrew,  an  ill  omen,  when  one  recalls  the  skeptical  and  revo- 
lutionary character  of  the  literature  of  contemporary  France. 
Specific  study  in  divinity  became  advisable  after  graduation 
from  college,  and  it  became  customary  for  students  to  ask  a 
prominent  minister  for  the  privilege  of  living  in  his  home, 
reading  under  his  direction,  and  enjoying  the  practical  advan- 
tages that  his  parish  suppHed.  Reverend  Joseph  Bellamy  in 
his  parish  at  Bethlem,  Connecticut,  indoctrinated  many  a 
youth  in  the  New  Divinity  of  Hopkinsianism,  and  Reverend 
Nathaniel  Emmons  in  Franklin,  Massachusetts,  taught  nearly 
one  hundred  such  students.  The  method  had  the  advantage 
of  personal  contact  and  parish  experience,  and,  not  least  valu- 

i9y 


able,  it  gave  opportunity  for  intensive  cultivation  of  the  ac- 
quaintance of  ministers'  daughters,  which  partly  explains  why 
so  many  of  them  married  ministers.  But  the  doctrinal  stamp 
of  a  single  man  tended  to  narrow  the  outlook  of  the  student, 
and  the  method  was  criticised  as  lacking  systematic  instruction 
in  biblical  exegesis  and  ecclesiastical  history. 

These  were  among  the  circumstances  that  favored  the 
thought  of  a  theological  seminary.  The  idea  fermented  in 
several  minds  about  the  same  time.  Reverend  Jonathan 
French,  who  was  the  instructor  of  certain  students  in  divinity 
in  the  Academy,  made  a  suggestion  for  a  seminary  as  early  as 
the  foundation  of  the  Academy.  In  a  letter  to  Nathaniel  Niles 
of  Vermont,  expressing  the  wish  for  a  theological  seminary, 
he  said  :  ''The  students  should  be  such  only  as  have  been  grad- 
uated at  some  college,  or  are  otherwise  qualified  to  enter  upon 
the  study  of  divinity ;  should  tarry  three  years  at  the  Academy 
and  be  boarded  in  common.  None  should  be  allowed  to  enter 
but  persons  of  sobriety  and  good  morals.  The  president  should 
be  the  first  in  the  land  for  good  principles,  learning,  and  piety, 
if  to  be  had ;  the  best  of  libraries  for  the  purpose  be  procured, 
and  a  whole  course  of  divinity  be  studied,  and  everything 
practicable  that  may  assist  to  qualify  young  gentlemen  for  the 
work  of  the  ministry  be  taught." 

Dr.  Eliphalet  Pearson  was  disturbed  gravely  by  the  liberal 
trend  at  Harvard.  Pearson  was  one  of  the  outstanding  men 
of  the  time  in  educational  circles.  He  had  been  the  first  prin- 
cipal of  Phillips  Academy  and  had  established  its  reputation, 
and  after  eight  years  he  had  been  elected  to  a  professorship 
at  Harvard,  There  he  served  with  such  acceptance  that 
Leonard  Woods  could  say  of  him:  '*No  other  officer  in  the 
college  had  equal  influence  in  promoting  improvement  in  lit- 
erature, and  the  higher  interest  of  morality  and  piety."  When 
President  Willard  died  in  1804  Pearson  was  acting  president 
for  over  a  year,  and  presumably  he  hoped  to  be  elected  Wil- 
lard's  successor.  He  was  one  of  the  five  members  of  the  Board 
of  Fellows,  and,  with  Jedediah  Morse  of  Charlestown,  he  op- 
posed the  appointment  of  a  Unitarian  to  the  Hollis  professor- 
ship of  divinity.  When  he  failed  to  stem  the  tide  of  liberalism 

-{lOf 


in  1805,  and  then  when  Professor  Webber  was  chosen  presi- 
dent the  next  year,  Pearson  resigned  his  office  and  went  back 
to  Andover,  convinced  that  something  needed  to  be  done  to 
defend  orthodoxy.  The  Academy,  of  which  he  was  a  trustee, 
cordially  welcomed  his  return  and  gave  him  a  year's  rental  of 
a  new  house  nearby.  Then  he  began  to  plan  for  the  establish- 
ment of  a  theological  institution  *' which  should  maintain  the 
doctrines  of  the  fathers  of  New  England  against  the  threat- 
ening apostasies  of  the  times." 

Dr.  Pearson  interested  Andover  residents  in  his  plans. 
Among  these  residents  was  Samuel  Abbot.  He  was  an  An- 
dover citizen  who  had  made  money  in  a  mercantile  business 
in  Boston.  He  shared  his  wealth  with  Harvard  students  and 
with  ministers,  and  planned  to  make  a  generous  bequest  to 
Harvard.  But  his  concern  over  orthodoxy  made  him  transfer 
his  interest  to  Andover  and  a  possible  theological  center  there. 
He  was  a  trustee  of  the  Academy,  and  so  active  did  he  become 
in  the  counsels  of  the  time  that  Pearson,  French,  and  Samuel 
Farrar  were  spoken  of  as  his  privy  council.  It  was  these  men 
who  wrote  the  constitution  of  the  original  Foundation,  and 
so  wisely  did  they  outline  the  functions  of  each  department 
that  little  change  was  necessary  in  subsequent  decades.  The 
PhilHps  family  kept  its  interest  in  theological  education,  and 
Madam  Phillips,  the  widow  of  Judge  Phillips,  and  her  son 
John  readily  agreed  to  make  the  plan  concrete  by  providing 
accommodations  for  sixty  theological  students  in  a  new  build- 
ing, which  should  include  also  a  lecture  hall  and  a  library. 

While  these  initial  steps  were  being  taken  at  Andover,  the 
Hopkinsians  were  cherishing  a  similar  purpose.  Their  leader 
was  Dr.  Samuel  Spring,  minister  at  Newburyport.  He  had 
been  a  pupil  of  both  Hopkins  and  Bellamy,  and  had  been  a 
recognized  leader  in  eastern  Massachusetts  for  forty  years. 
Leonard  Woods,  a  young  minister  at  West  Newbury,  was  his 
close  friend.  Through  Spring  and  Woods  three  laymen  were 
aroused  to  an  interest  in  theological  education.  These  were 
William  Bartlet,  a  successful  merchant  of  Newburyport, 
Moses  Brown  of  the  same  town,  and  John  Norris  of  Salem. 
They  were  all  men  of  wealth,  and  though  not  all  church  mem- 


bers  they  were  willing  to  use  their  money  for  religious  pur- 
poses, and  they  soon  agreed  to  support  the  plans  for  a 
theological  school  at  West  Newbury.  Reverend  Nathaniel 
Emmons  at  Franklin,  one  of  the  most  eminent  of  the  Hop- 
kinsian  theologians,  was  an  active  supporter. 

Here  then  were  two  groups  of  Calvinists,  equally  deter- 
mined to  establish  a  stronghold  of  orthodoxy  for  the  Congre- 
gational churches  of  New  England,  preparing  to  found  two 
schools  of  theology  within  twenty  miles  of  each  other,  and  to 
appeal  to  the  same  denominational  constituency.  At  Andover 
the  foundation  was  already  laid  and  the  Hopkinsians  were 
making  progress,  when  Woods  and  Morse,  who  were  associ- 
ated in  the  publication  of  the  Panoplist,  an  organ  of  the  Ortho- 
dox Calvinists  against  the  Unitarian  Anthology,  discovered 
each  other's  enterprise.  Immediately  it  was  apparent  to  both 
that  the  two  groups  ought  to  combine  forces.  Both  were  Cal- 
vinists and  equally  hostile  to  the  Liberal  movement  in  Massa- 
chusetts, and  they  were  agreed  in  their  purpose  to  provide  or- 
thodox training  for  the  Congregational  ministry.  It  was  to 
require  patience,  long  discussion,  sweet  reasonableness,  and 
perseverance,  before  the  two  parties  could  be  brought  to  ar- 
range a  merger.  The  Old  Calvinists  were  especially  desirous  to 
have  the  school  at  Andover.  The  Hopkinsians  were  insistent 
upon  their  own  interpretation  of  Calvinism  as  the  doctrinal 
foundation  of  the  school.  Eventually  they  compromised  recip- 
rocally, but  progress  toward  union  was  discouragingly  slow. 

Pearson  and  Woods  labored  indefatigably.  Pearson's  chaise 
became  a  familiar  object  as  it  traveled  back  and  forth  more  than 
thirty  times  over  the  highway  between  Andover  and  Newbury- 
port  in  an  endeavor  to  unsnarl  the  theological  tangle.  Woods 
had  an  inexhaustible  gift  of  diplomacy  which  he  used  to  good 
effect.  But  there  was  mutual  suspicion.  Dr.  Spring  was  doubt- 
ful about  joining  with  a  theological  enterprise  which  would  be 
controlled  by  the  Trustees  of  the  Academy  at  Andover,  who 
were  content  with  the  Westminster  standards  of  doctrine. 
Some  of  them,  living  in  Boston,  were  dangerously  liberal. 
Spring  expressed  the  Hopkinsian  suspicion  when  he  wrote : 
''Our  Constitution  we  must  have  at  Andover  independent  of 


them;  or,  a  separate  trust  collected  from  Andover,  making 
half  the  united  trust  provided  by  our  Constitution,  must  be  the 
condition  of  our  connection,  or  we  cannot  safely  remove  to 
Andover,  nor  even  then;  for  we  can't  before  the  Millennium 
govern  them  any  more  than  we  can  the  Emperor.  And  they 
must  not  govern." 

Since  the  Trustees  were  not  allowed  by  their  charter  to  hold 
an  estate  sufficient  to  carry  out  the  design  of  the  donors,  the 
Legislature  of  Massachusetts  on  June  19,  1807,  authorized 
the  Trustees  to  receive  and  hold  additional  property  ''  for  the 
purpose  of  a  theological  institution  and  in  furtherance  of  the 
designs  of  the  pious  founders  and  benefactors  of  said  Acad- 
emy." Madam  Phillips,  John  Phillips,  Jr.,  and  Samuel  Abbot 
then  joined  in  executing  a  Deed  of  Gift,  dated  August  31, 1807, 
and  embodying  sundry  rules  and  regulations  which  were  to 
be  the  Constitution  of  "a  public  theological  institution  in 
Phillips  Academy."  Madam  Phillips  and  John  Phillips,  Jr., 
thus  undertook  to  erect  two  buildings  for  the  purpose  of  the 
proposed  Seminary,  while  Samuel  Abbot  gave  twenty  thousand 
dollars  ''as  a  fund  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  a  professor 
of  Christian  Theology"  in  the  Seminary.  His  gift  to  Andover 
was  the  first  American  foundation  for  a  chair  in  theology  out- 
side a  university,  for  in  1807  ^  foundation  for  purely  theologi- 
cal education  was  almost  unknown  in  America.  In  the  Middle 
States  the  Dutch  Reformed  and  Presbyterian  churches  had 
made  small  beginnings,  but  in  New  England  the  Congrega- 
tionalists  had  depended  on  Harvard  and  Yale.  In  a  legal  sense 
the  new  Seminary  at  Andover  was  the  theological  institution 
in  Phillips  Academy,  but  it  was  so  distinct  in  faculty,  buildings, 
and  funds  as  to  be  actually  a  separate  school. 

The  deed  of  August  31,  1807,  was  signed  in  the  belief  that 
union  with  the  Hopkinsians  was  likely  to  prove  impossible. 
The  Trustees  immediately  voted  to  "accept  the  sacred  and  very 
important  trust  devolved  upon  them  by  the  preceding  instru- 
ment." Among  the  regulations  which  the  Trustees  thus  ac- 
cepted was  one  to  the  efifect  that  every  professor  in  the  Semi- 
nary must  "be  a  man  of  sound  and  orthodox  principles  in 
divinity  according  to  that  form  of  sound  words  or  system  of 


evangelical  doctrines,  drawn  from  the  Scriptures,  and  denomi- 
nated the  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Catechism,  and 
more  concisely  delineated  in  the  Constitution  of  Phillips 
Academy."  In  further  regulations  it  was  provided  that  every 
professor  must  at  the  time  of  his  inauguration  solemnly  prom- 
ise to  maintain  and  inculcate  the  Christian  faith  as  summarily 
expressed  in  the  Shorter  Catechism  "in  opposition  not  only  to 
Atheists  and  Infidels,  but  to  Jews,  Mahommetans,  Arians, 
Pelagians,  Antinomians,  Arminians,  Socinians,  Unitarians, 
and  Universalists,  and  to  all  other  heresies  and  errors,  ancient 
or  modern,  which  may  be  opposed  to  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  or 
hazardous  to  the  souls  of  men,"  and  that  every  professor  must 
repeat  this  declaration  in  the  presence  of  the  Trustees  once  in 
five  years. 

The  purpose  of  the  Founders,  according  to  their  constitu- 
tion, was  to  increase  "the  number  of  learned  and  able  de- 
fenders of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  as  well  as  of  orthodox,  pious, 
and  zealous  ministers  of  the  New  Testament ;  being  moved, 
as  we  hope,  by  a  principle  of  gratitude  to  God  and  benevolence 
to  man."  A  similar  purpose  motivated  the  Associate  Founders, 
the  Hopkinsians,  who  in  the  Associate  Statutes  which  they 
drew  up  said  more  rhetorically:  "To  the  Spirit  of  Truth,  to 
the  divine  Author  of  our  faith,  to  the  only  wise  God,  we  desire 
in  sincerity  to  present  this  our  humble  offering,  devoutly  im- 
ploring the  Father  of  Lights,  richly  to  endue  with  wisdom 
from  above  all  His  servants,  the  Visitors  of  this  Foundation, 
and  the  Trustees  of  the  Seminary,  and  with  spiritual  under- 
standing the  professors  therein,  that,  being  illuminated  by  the 
Holy  Spirit  their  doctrine  may  drop  as  the  rain  ;  and  that  their 
pupils  may  become  trees  of  renown  in  the  courts  of  our  God, 
whereby  He  may  be  glorified." 

For  some  months  it  seemed  likely  that  two  schools  would 
arise  on  account  of  their  differences  in  theological  interpreta- 
tion, unfortunate  though  such  duplication  of  effort  would  be. 
But  the  idea  of  affiliation  was  still  at  work.  In  the  spring  of 
1808  the  Hopkinsian  promoters  met  and  on  the  twenty-first 
of  March  adopted  their  series  of  associate  statutes,  and  as 
Associate  Founders  submitted  their  constitution  to  the  Trus- 

ii4y 


tees  of  Phillips  Academy.  Their  project  carried  with  it  an  offer 
of  ten  thousand  dollars  each  from  Brown,  Bartlet,  and  Norris, 
and  a  promise  of  an  additional  ten  thousand  from  Bartlet. 
These  sums  were  intended  to  provide  for  the  support  of  two 
professors  and  for  student  aid.  These  were  tempting  offers, 
but  the  statutes  drawn  up  by  the  Associate  Founders  contained 
three  provisions  which  caused  hesitation  among  the  Founders. 

The  Hopkinsians  had  drawn  up  a  creed  for  their  school 
which  contained  articles  interpreting  their  theology,  and  they 
would  not  compromise  with  the  Founders  at  Andover  upon 
this  point.  In  order  to  safeguard  their  tenets  they  prescribed 
that  every  professor  should  be  a  Hopkinsian  and  at  his  inaugu- 
ration should  subscribe  to  the  creed.  Then,  to  make  doubly 
sure,  it  was  stipulated  that  a  board  of  visitors  should  be  ap- 
pointed, after  the  example  of  the  Overseers  at  Harvard,  to 
examine,  when  necessary,  the  orthodoxy  of  the  members  of 
the  Faculty,  to  see  that  the  funds  were  not  misused,  and  to 
control  the  Trustees  in  their  administration  of  the  property. 
The  Founders  had  agreed  that  the  Associate  Founders  might 
prescribe  additional  statutes  and  appoint  visitors  to  enforce 
such  statutes,  but  it  was  not  anticipated  that  the  visitors  would 
be  their  masters.  The  third  provision  of  the  Associate  Stat- 
utes was  that  the  alliance  should  be  subject  to  revision  at  any 
time  during  the  first  seven  years,  even  to  the  withdrawal  of 
the  Associate  funds. 

The  patience  and  pertinacity  of  Pearson  and  Woods  had 
brought  about  a  tentative  agreement  in  the  preceding  Decem- 
ber. They  kept  steadily  at  work  and  were  rewarded  at  length 
on  the  tenth  of  May  when  seven  out  of  eight  of  the  Trustees 
present  agreed  to  accept  the  terms  of  the  Associate  Founders 
and  the  affiliation  was  completed.  It  was  prophetic  of  the  habit 
of  affiliation  which  Andover  was  to  acquire  later. 

The  compromise  which  was  reached  provided  that  the  Semi- 
nary should  be  located  at  Andover,  and  the  Trustees  of  the 
Academy  should  hold  and  administer  the  endowments  under 
their  charter.  The  original  Constitution  of  the  Founders  was 
to  stand,  and  the  Associate  Statutes  of  the  Hopkinsians  to  be 
of  equal  authority.    Every  occupant  of  a  chair  endowed  by 

iisy 


the  Associate  Founders  should  be  a  Hopkinsian.  Madam 
Phillips  and  her  son  were  to  erect  the  building  for  the  Semi- 
nary, Phillips  Hall,  and  the  donations  offered  were  accepted, 
twenty  thousand  each  from  Abbot  and  Bartlet  and  ten  thou- 
sand each  from  Brown  and  Norris,  the  last  three  gifts  con- 
stituting the  Associate  Foundation  and  the  donors  constituting 
the  Associate  Founders.  A  self-perpetuating  Board  of  Visi- 
tors was  given  power  to  review  the  acts  of  the  Trustees,  to 
interpret  the  Creed  and  the  Associate  Statutes,  as  occasion 
might  arise,  and  to  preserve  the  orthodoxy  of  the  Seminary. 
Appeal  might  be  made  from  the  Visitors  to  the  Supreme 
Judicial  Court  of  Massachusetts,  if  they  "should  exceed  the 
limits  of  their  jurisdiction  and  constitutional  power,"  or  "act 
contrary  to"  the  statutes  of  the  Seminary.  The  Visitors  were 
intended  to  be  censors  of  the  school  as  long  as  the  sun  and 
moon  endure,  visiting  it  at  least  once  a  year,  and  to  see,  as  it 
was  phrased,  that  the  true  intentions  of  the  Founders  of  the 
Seminary  were  carried  out.  The  charter  of  Phillips  Academy, 
enacted  by  the  Legislature  of  Massachusetts  in  1780,  provided 
that  the  Trustees  should  not  be  more  than  thirteen  or  less  than 
seven,  and  that  the  majority  should  be  "laymen  and  respec- 
table freeholders" ;  and  provided  further  that  the  Board  should 
be  a  self -perpetuating  body.  The  Visitors  were  three  in  num- 
ber, two  of  them  clergymen,  likewise  self -perpetuating.  They 
must  subscribe  to  the  Associate  Creed.  The  records  of  the 
Trustees  were  to  be  open  to  the  public ;  those  of  the  Visitors 
were  a  closed  book. 

It  was  a  moot  question  whether  the  acceptance  by  the 
Trustees  of  the  donations  of  the  Hopkinsians  and  of  the  Hop- 
kinsian Board  of  Visitors  was  not  in  violation  of  the  charter 
of  Phillips  Academy.  That  forbade  the  Trustees  ever  to  re- 
ceive any  grant  or  donation,  "the  condition  whereof  should 
require  them  or  any  other  concerned,  to  act  in  any  respect 
counter  to  the  design  of  the  first  grantors  or  of  any  prior 
donation."  It  also  provided  that  the  Trustees  then  in  office 
and  their  successors  should  be  "true  and  sole  Visitors,  Trus- 
tees, and  Governors  of  the  said  Phillips  Academy  in  perpetual 
succession  forever." 


The  Hopkinsian  Creed  differed  somewhat  from  the  West- 
minster Confession,  omitting  a  few  sections  and  modifying 
others.  It  was  in  substance  an  affirmation  of  belief  in  the 
authority  of  the  Bible  as  superior  to  reason,  in  the  sovereignty 
of  the  divine  will,  in  the  election  of  some  to  be  saved  from  the 
consequences  of  the  fall  of  Adam,  in  the  atonement  of  Christ 
intended  for  all,  but  really  limited  to  the  elect,  and  in  the 
assured  salvation  of  these  few,  but  the  hopeless  condemnation 
of  the  rest.  It  was  intended  to  include,  as  has  been  said,  "just 
as  much  of  the  peculiarities  of  each  party  as  would  not  ex- 
clude the  participation  in  the  resultant  symbol  of  the  other." 
It  was  phrased  in  an  irenic  spirit,  but  it  was  an  effort  to  com- 
bine two  schools  of  theological  thought  which  could  not  be 
harmonized,  and  theologically  the  compromise  was  destined 
to  prove  a  tragic  failure. 

The  two  orthodox  parties  agreed  against  the  Liberals  that 
the  Scripture  was  a  fixed  deposit  of  truth  rather  than  a  pro- 
gressive revelation,  and  that  reason  had  no  right  to  contradict ; 
that  man  is  handicapped  from  the  start  and  is  saved  only  by 
the  grace  of  God,  mediated  through  the  Cross ;  that  Christ 
died  to  satisfy  divine  justice,  and  that  He  was  very  God  Him- 
self. But  the  two  Calvinistic  parties  differed  at  many  points 
themselves.  The  Hopkinsians  maintained  the  doctrine  of 
divine  sovereignty,  but  they  modified  the  plight  of  man.  They 
rejected  the  Old  Calvinist  doctrine  of  the  imputation  of 
Adam's  sin,  as  if  Adam  were  the  representative  of  the  human 
race,  and  maintained  that  every  man's  sin  is  his  own  personal 
responsibility.  They  made  less  of  human  depravity  and  more 
of  actual  sinning.  They  did  not  believe  that  God  had  closed 
absolutely  the  door  of  hope,  because  there  is  in  man  a  certain 
natural  ability  to  obey  God's  law.  And  Christ  had  died  for  all 
men,  not  as  a  penal  satisfaction  to  an  outraged  deity,  but  as  an 
expression  of  his  universal  benevolence.  And  man  should  rely 
on  the  atoning  Christ  and  not  on  any  outward  means  of  grace. 

The  Associate  Statutes  provided  that  every  professor  on  the 
Associate  Foundation  should  on  the  day  of  his  inauguration 
publicly  make  and  subscribe  a  solemn  declaration  of  his  faith 
"in  divine  revelation  and  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguish- 

i\7y 


ing  doctrines  of  the  Gospel"  as  expressed  in  the  Creed,  and 
that  every  five  years  he  should  repeat  the  declaration,  includ- 
ing the  following :  "  I  do  solemnly  promise  that  I  will  open  and 
explain  the  Scriptures  to  my  pupils  with  integrity  and  faith- 
fulness ;  that  I  will  maintain  and  inculcate  the  Christian  faith 
as  expressed  in  the  Creed  by  me  now  repeated,  together  with 
all  other  doctrines  and  duties  of  our  holy  religion,  so  far  as 
may  appertain  to  my  office,  according  to  the  best  light  that 
God  shall  give  me,  and  in  opposition  not  only  to  atheists  and 
infidels,  but  to  Jews,  Papists,  Mahommetans,  Arians,  Pela- 
gians, Antinomians,  Arminians,  Socinians,  Sabellians,  Uni- 
tarians, and  Universalists,  and  to  all  other  heresies  and  errors, 
ancient  and  modern,  which  may  be  opposed  to  the  gospel  of 
Christ  or  hazardous  to  the  souls  of  men ;  that  by  my  instruc- 
tion, counsel,  and  example  I  will  endeavor  to  promote  true 
piety  and  godliness ;  that  I  will  consult  the  good  of  this  insti- 
tution and  the  peace  of  the  churches  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
on  all  occasions ;  and  that  I  will  religiously  conform  to  the  con- 
stitution and  laws  of  this  Seminary,  and  to  the  statutes  of  this 
foundation." 

The  Hopkinsians  lived  in  continual  dread  lest  the  school 
might  be  captured  at  any  time  by  their  rivals.  Nathaniel 
Emmons  wrote  in  1819 :  ''I  have  feared  and  do  still  more  and 
more  fear  that  that  richly  endowed  Seminary  will  erelong 
become  the  fountain  of  theological  errors,  and  disseminate 
them  through  all  New  England,  if  not  this  America.  I  have 
for  some  time  been  convinced  that  neither  the  teachers  nor 
the  taught  strictly  adhere  to  that  excellent  Creed  upon  which 
the  institution  was  professedly  founded.  They  are  fast  verg- 
ing towards  the  absurdities  of  the  Old  Calvinism."  So  difficult 
was  it  to  put  the  mind  of  man  in  a  strait-jacket.  Yet  the  pro- 
fessor of  theology  throughout  that  period  was  Leonard 
Woods,  who  was  so  active  as  a  Hopkinsian  in  the  foundation 
of  the  Seminary. 

The  Creed  was  duly  insured  and  as  it  seemed  placed  in  safe 
deposit  by  the  language  of  the  Associate  Statutes,  which  read  : 
"  It  is  strictly  and  solemnly  enjoined,  and  left  in  sacred  charge, 
that  every  article  of  the  abovesaid  Creed  shall  forever  remain 

iisy 


entirely  and  identically  the  same,  without  the  least  alteration, 
or  any  addition  or  diminution." 

In  1842  the  Trustees  decided  that  it  was  unnecessary  for 
the  associate  professors  to  subscribe  to  more  than  the  Creed. 
Professor  William  J.  Tucker,  before  signing  the  Creed  in 
1880,  declared  expHcitly:  "The  creed  which  I  am  about  to 
read  and  to  which  I  subscribe,  I  fully  accept  as  setting  forth 
the  truth  against  the  errors  which  it  was  designed  to  meet. 
No  confession  so  elaborate  and  with  such  intent  may  assume 
to  be  the  final  expression  of  the  truth  or  an  expression  equally 
fitted  in  language  or  tone  to  all  times." 

There  was  a  single  saving  clause  for  the  liberal  interpreter, 
"according  to  the  best  light  God  shall  give  me."  Perhaps  the 
attitude  of  the  early  Faculty  is  best  expressed  by  Moses 
Stuart,  whose  orthodoxy  was  undoubted.  In  a  sermon 
preached  at  the  dedication  of  Bartlet  Chapel  in  1818,  he  said: 
"We  profess  to  adopt  for  substance  the  sentiments  of  the 
Westminster  Catechism,  but  it  is  not  our  standard  of  ortho- 
doxy, nor  any  other  human  production.  In  principle,  I  be- 
lieve in  practice,  we  are  genuine  Protestants.  The  Bible  we 
regard  as  the  sufhcient  and  only  rule  of  faith  and  practice. 
We  believe  in  the  doctrines  of  our  Creed,  merely  because  we 
suppose  the  Bible  teaches  them.  We  profess  to  shrink  not  from 
the  most  strenuous  investigation.  I  am  bold  to  say,  there  is  not 
a  school  of  theology  on  earth,  where  more  free  and  unlimited 
investigation  is  indulged,  nay  inculcated  and  practiced.  The 
shelves  of  our  library  are  loaded  with  books  of  Latitudinarians 
and  Skeptics,  which  are  read  and  studied.  We  have  no  appre- 
hension that  the  truths  which  we  believe  are  to  suffer  by  such 
an  investigation." 

The  Creed  was  apparently  the  law  within  which  the  prophet 
was  free  to  range,  as  the  aviator  performs  his  evolutions,  al- 
ways mindful  of  the  law  of  mechanics.  The  fathers  did  not 
think  of  theology  as  a  thing  of  life,  and  so  subject  to  change ; 
therefore  they  made  their  creed  a  test  of  orthodoxy  rather 
than  a  simple  confession  of  faith.  It  was  a  confession  of  fear 
of  heterodoxy  in  an  age  when  heresy  was  one  of  the  cardinal 
sins  of  Protestantism,  as  in  the  Catholic  Church.    That  they 

ii9y 


could  come  together  at  all  with  their  rivals  inside  the  same 
fold  is  more  remarkable  than  it  is  today  that  schools  of  differ- 
ent denominations  should  affiliate.  Their  common  faith  in  the 
true  fundamentals  of  the  Christian  gospel  made  that  possible. 
If  the  Hopkinsian  Creed  was  a  wall  to  keep  others  out  of 
the  Hopkinsian  preserves,  it  was  not  a  wall  to  shut  them  in. 
And  when  the  students  of  the  Seminary  greeted  one  an- 
other as  brethren  regardless  of  their  party  stamp,  the  old 
competition  was  forgotten.  Students  never  were  required  to 
subscribe  to  the  Creed,  and  several  different  denominations 
were  represented  among  them. 

One  of  the  first  tasks  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  was  to  choose 
a  faculty.  Two  men  were  logical  candidates,  the  two  men  who 
had  done  the  most  to  perfect  the  union,  Pearson  and  Woods. 
Pearson  had  been  a  prominent  teacher,  and  Woods  was  the 
intended  professor  of  theology  for  the  proposed  school  at 
West  Newbury.  Pearson  represented  the  Old  Calvinist  tra- 
dition, Woods  the  Hopkinsian  interpretation.  In  the  interests 
of  harmony  Samuel  Abbot  of  the  Founders  selected  Woods  as 
the  incumbent  of  the  professorship  of  Christian  theology, 
which  he  had  endowed,  and  William  Bartlet  of  the  Associate 
Founders  accepted  Pearson  for  his  professorship  of  natural 
theology,  with  the  expectation  that  he  would  expound  sacred 
literature.  But  curiously  enough  Woods,  the  Hopkinsian,  who 
should  have  subscribed  to  the  Associate  Creed,  signed  the 
Catechism  only,  and  Pearson,  whose  party  stood  for  the  West- 
minster Catechism,  signed  only  the  Creed.  At  the  opening  of 
the  Seminary  prayer  was  offered  for  the  two  professors  that 
they  might  be  **a  lovely,  happy  pair." 

Not  only  was  the  control  of  the  Seminary  provided  for  very 
carefully,  but  control  of  Faculty  and  students  was  buttressed 
by  numerous  regulations.  The  Associate  Statutes  contained  in 
all  twenty-eight  articles.  The  original  Constitution  contained 
thirty-four  articles,  and  to  these  thirteen  articles  were  added 
by  the  original  Founders.  The  Associate  Statutes  were  ac- 
cepted by  the  Trustees  on  May  lo,  1808.  The  rules  of  the 
Seminary  were  published  the  next  year  in  seven  chapters  of 
sixty-five  articles;  again  in  1837  in  thirteen  chapters  of  one 


hundred  and  two  articles.  Each  professor's  instruction  was 
regulated  carefully  for  his  department.  By  the  professor  of 
natural  theology,  for  example,  "the  existence,  attributes,  and 
providence  of  God  must  be  demonstrated;  the  soul's  immor- 
tality and  a  future  state,  as  deducible  from  the  light  of  nature, 
discussed ;  the  obligations  of  man  to  his  Alaker,  resulting  from 
the  divine  perfections  and  his  own  rational  nature,  enforced ; 
the  great  duties  of  social  Hfe,  flowing  from  the  mutual  rela- 
tions of  man  to  man,  inculcated ;  and  the  several  personal 
virtues  deduced  and  delineated ;  the  whole  being  interspersed 
with  remarks  on  the  coincidence  between  the  dictates  of  reason 
and  the  doctrines  of  revelation,  in  these  primary  points ;  and, 
notwithstanding  such  coincidence,  the  necessity  and  utility 
of  a  divine  revelation  stated." 

The  munificence  of  the  friends  of  the  school  established  it 
on  equally  firm  financial  foundations.  The  most  liberal  donors 
were  the  members  of  the  Phillips  family.  They  provided  for 
buildings  with  gifts  of  forty  thousand  dollars,  and  sixty  thou- 
sand more  went  for  land  and  endowment.  William  Bartlet 
was  the  most  generous  single  donor.  He  contributed  one-half 
of  the  Associate  Fund  of  forty  thousand,  added  fifteen  thou- 
sand later  for  the  Bartlet  professorship,  and  built  Bartlet 
Hall  (the  Chapel),  and  three  houses  for  professors.  Samuel 
Abbot  brought  his  total  contribution  to  over  a  hundred  thou- 
sand dollars.  John  Norris  and  his  wife  gave  forty  thousand, 
Moses  Brown  thirty-five  thousand,  and  there  were  other  gifts 
amounting  to  about  seventy-five  thousand  dollars,  including 
scholarships.  Altogether  about  four  hundred  and  fifty  thou- 
sand dollars  were  available  for  buildings  and  endowments 
within  the  first  half  century. 

The  establishment  of  the  Seminary  was  a  significant  event 
in  x\merican  church  history.  The  union  of  the  two  theological 
groups  of  conservatives  in  the  Seminary  proved  an  effective 
counterpoise  to  the  Unitarian  trend  in  Congregational  circles. 
Naturally  the  Liberals  were  not  pleased.  The  Harvard  atti- 
tude was  not  friendly.  Woods  reported  to  Farrar  in  1807  that 
there  was  "loud  murmuring  and  reproach  and  imprecation." 
On  his  own  part  Woods  did  not  feel  cordial.    He  wrote  to 

i2iy 


Jedediah  Morse:  "I  hate  to  fight  with  such  creatures  as  the 
'Anthologists.'  They  can  make  the  loudest  noise.  They  never 
will  feel  conquered.  They  will  use  instruments  and  methods 
of  battle  which  we  disapprove  and  despise.  Let  not  our  pages 
be  soiled  with  their  matters."  All  of  which  is  evidence  of  the 
hostilities  of  the  period.  The  Congregational  churches  ex- 
pressed their  good  will  for  the  school  and  confidence  in  it. 
Most  of  the  ministers  were  in  sympathy  with  the  course  that 
had  been  followed,  and  they  believed  in  the  principle  of  theo- 
logical education.  The  General  Association  of  Massachusetts 
in  1808  recorded  its  satisfaction  that  an  important  theological 
institution  had  been  established  in  the  county  of  Essex.  Two 
years  later  its  committee  on  the  state  of  the  churches  reported 
that  the  smiles  of  God  rested  on  the  Theological  Seminary. 
As  far  away  as  New  York  City  a  lively  interest  was  felt  and 
surprise  was  expressed  at  the  financial  resources  and  the  num- 
ber of  students.  The  Seminary  marked  a  distinct  stage  of 
advance  in  theological  training,  and  spurred  the  Congrega- 
tionalists  to  establish  other  institutions  for  theological  educa- 
tion. Bangor  Theological  Seminary  was  opened  at  Hampden, 
Maine,  in  1816,  for  students  without  college  training,  and  was 
removed  to  Bangor  three  years  later.  Yale  Divinity  School 
was  founded  as  a  distinct  department  of  the  University  in 
1822,  as  Harvard  Divinity  School  had  been  at  Cambridge  in 
181 5.  Other  denominations  were  soon  establishing  their  own 
schools  on  the  Andover  model. 

The  foundations  at  Andover  were  laid  firmly.  The  super- 
structure was  to  be  built  into  the  lives  and  characters  of  gener- 
ations of  theological  students,  and  the  influence  of  the  Semi- 
nary on  the  Hill  was  to  be  felt  around  the  world.  For  the  first 
half  century  it  was  to  train  most  of  the  pastors  of  the  Congre- 
gational churches  of  Massachusetts  and  nearly  all  the  foreign 
missionaries  of  the  American  Board,  and  many  Presbyterians 
who  found  their  fields  of  labor  in  the  Middle  and  Western 
States.  Because  of  its  high  standards,  competent  instruction, 
and  thorough  discipline,  Andover  became  a  recognized  leader 
in  theology,  in  biblical  research,  and  in  general  contribution 
to  the  study  of  religion. 

^22)- 


CHAPTER   II 

SEMINARY  LIFE  IN  THE  EARLY  YEARS 

ON  a  delightful  day  in  early  autumn,  the  twenty-eighth 
of  September,  1808,  the  friends  of  the  new  Seminary 
gathered  from  far  and  near  to  celebrate  the  opening 
of  the  school.  Some  of  them  had  been  present  at  the  founding 
of  the  Academy  thirty  years  earlier.  Andover  was  still  a  small 
village,  but  it  was  to  become  famous  for  its  educational  insti- 
tutions. Already  the  Academy  was  in  good  repute.  Now  it 
was  to  become  a  shrine  of  religion,  and  from  it  were  to  radiate 
influences  that  would  be  unbounded  in  their  scope.  No  one  in 
the  audience  which  gathered  to  share  in  the  exercises  of  the 
day  could  have  imagined  how  soon  alumni  of  the  Seminary 
would  go  far  afield  on  foreign  mission  bent,  to  India  and 
Burma,  to  Africa  and  the  Near  East,  or  how  many  would 
find  almost  as  difficult  a  field  of  labor  with  Indians  on  the 
southwestern  frontier  of  America.  But  already  the  mission 
purpose  had  crystallized  under  a  haystack  in  Williamstown 
at  the  other  end  of  Massachusetts,  presently  it  would  focalize 
at  a  point  nearby  for  missionary  organization,  and  then  its 
sponsors  would  make  the  name  of  Andover  known  at  the  ends 
of  the  earth. 

The  people  filed  into  the  pews  of  the  parish  meetinghouse, 
and  gave  their  attention  to  the  order  of  exercises.  It  would 
have  been  unseemly  if  so  grave  an  event  as  the  institution  of 
a  theological  seminary  should  not  be  observed  with  the  most 
solemn  dignity  and  with  a  profound  sense  of  the  significance 
of  the  occasion.  It  was  fitting  that  the  people  should  take  time 
to  dedicate  the  institution  and  to  invest  its  faculty  with  the 
authority  of  their  office. 

Reverend  Jonathan  French,  pastor  of  the  church,  made  the 
introductory  prayer.   This  was  especially  appropriate  because 


of  his  primary  interest  in  organizing  a  seminary,  his  part  in 
its  organization,  and  his  office  as  pastor  of  the  church.  After 
the  prayer  had  been  offered.  Dr.  EHphalet  Pearson  recounted 
the  history  of  the  Academy  from  the  time  of  its  founding. 
Then  he  read  the  Constitution  for  the  new  foundation.  Dr. 
Jedediah  Morse  read  the  statutes  of  the  Associate  Founders. 
These  were  supplemented  by  the  Additional  Statutes  which 
Squire  Farrar  had  penned  for  the  original  Founders,  read  now 
by  Dr.  Daniel  Dana,  the  most  uncompromisingly  conserva- 
tive of  the  Board  of  Trustees.  These  events  were  carried  out 
in  the  prolix  fashion  of  that  day,  and  the  forenoon  exercises 
ended  with  music.  The  music  of  the  day  was  furnished  by  the 
musical  associations  of  Middlesex,  Essex,  and  Suffolk  coun- 
ties, aided  by  ''other  respectable  gentlemen,  both  of  the  clergy 
and  the  laity,  who  politely  gave  their  assistance  in  the  solem- 
nities of  the  day." 

After  the  visitors  had  enjoyed  the  hospitality  of  the  towns- 
folk, they  wended  their  way  again  to  the  meetinghouse  for 
the  service  of  the  afternoon.  This  was  an  occasion  of  special 
interest  because  it  was  to  include  the  ordination  of  Dr.  Pear- 
son, professor-elect.  No  unordained  man  could  be  a  professor 
in  Andover  Seminary.  The  village  had  long  known  and  hon- 
ored Dr.  Pearson.  The  people  knew  him  in  Revolutionary 
days,  when  he  dabbled  in  chemistry  to  obtain  the  saltpetre 
needed  for  the  army.  They  had  sat  under  his  instruction  in  one 
of  those  singing  schools  that  relieved  the  tedium  of  village  life 
and  combined  education  and  enjoyment.  They  had  known 
him  as  a  schoolmaster,  and  had  been  gratified  over  the  honors 
that  he  had  received  at  Harvard.  They  had  welcomed  him 
back  to  citizenship  in  the  old  town.  They  were  aware  of  the 
part  that  he  had  taken  in  the  creation  of  the  new  theological 
foundation.  They  were  ready  to  give  him  his  full  meed  of 
local  honors. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Dr.  Dana ;  the  sermon  was  preached 
by  Dr.  Timothy  Dwight,  President  of  Yale  College ;  and  the 
consecrating  prayer  was  made  by  Dr.  Spring;  then  followed 
the  charge  to  the  candidate  by  Mr.  French,  and  the  hand  of 
fellowship  by  Dr.  Morse.    After  the  ordination  service  was 

A2Ay 


over  Dr.  Spring  read  the  Creed,  which  to  the  Hopkinsians  was 
so  important  a  part  of  the  machinery  of  the  estabHshment. 
Dr.  Dwight  declared  Dr.  Pearson  a  professor  in  the  Seminary 
and  invested  him  with  the  rights  of  office,  and  Dr.  Pearson  in 
turn  rendered  the  same  service  to  Dr.  Woods.  Professor 
Woods  then  dehvered  his  inaugural  address,  On  the  Glory  and 
Excellency  of  the  Gospel.  Leonard  Woods  had  been  valedic- 
torian of  his  class  at  Harvard,  he  appreciated  the  importance 
of  the  occasion,  and  he  did  full  justice  to  it.  The  day  proved 
too  wearisome  to  Dr.  Pearson,  who  was  not  in  the  best  of 
health,  and  his  oration  was  omitted.  After  a  closing  prayer 
by  Dr.  Dwight,  the  service  concluded  with  an  anthem  by  the 
choir,  which  was  pronounced  highly  gratifying  to  the  audience. 

Phillips  Hall  was  not  yet  ready  for  classes,  so  that  Dr. 
Woods  held  his  first  class  in  his  own  house.  In  due  time  the 
new  building  was  ready  for  occupancy,  and  the  proceedings 
became  more  regular.  It  had  been  hoped  that  perhaps  as  many 
as  twelve  young  men  might  desire  to  avail  themselves  of  the 
opportunity  to  study  at  Andover  in  preference  to  residing 
with  a  Congregational  minister,  or  living  in  the  dangerous 
environment  of  Harvard  College.  No  one  was  optimistic 
enough  to  expect  a  larger  number.  It  was  not  easy  to  gain 
admittance.  The  candidate  must  show  a  certificate  of  good 
character  from  those  who  knew  him.  The  Constitution  pre- 
scribed that  students  must  be  young  men,  ''of  good  natural 
and  acquired  talents"  who  have  honorably  completed  "a  course 
of  liberal  education"  and  who  sustain  "a  fair  moral  char- 
acter." Each  man  must  submit  to  an  examination  before  two 
professors  and  Dr.  Spring,  and  show  his  ability  to  use  Latin 
and  Greek,  and  if  he  had  not  graduated  from  college  he  was 
required  to  show  some  knowledge  of  science. 

The  influx  of  students  surprised  everybody,  and  taxed  the 
accommodations  of  the  school.  Before  the  first  year  was  over 
thirty-six  students  had  enrolled.  Classes  averaged  approxi- 
mately fifty  men  during  the  first  eight  years,  then  the  numbers 
increased  until  in  1819  more  than  one  hundred  were  enrolled. 
Students  came  mainly  from  the  Congregational  colleges  of 
New  England,  but  Hamilton,  Union,  and  Princeton,  each  had 

i25y 


its  quota.  The  class  of  1810,  with  fifty-six  students,  repre- 
sented Williams  with  sixteen  men,  Yale  nine,  Middlebury 
seven,  Brown,  a  Baptist  college,  seven,  Princeton  five.  Har- 
vard three,  Union,  Dartmouth,  and  Bowdoin  two  each,  and 
the  University  of  Vermont  one.  In  the  first  ten  years  only 
four  men  were  graduated  who  had  not  received  the  Bachelor 
of  Arts  degree.  During  the  first  twenty-five  years  only  forty- 
two  out  of  six  hundred  and  seven  Andover  graduates  were 
not  college  graduates.  By  that  time  Dartmouth  rivaled  Yale 
in  furnishing  the  largest  number  of  students,  the  one  sending 
one  hundred  and  sixteen,  the  other  one  hundred  and  nine. 
Middlebury  had  prepared  and  sent  eighty-six.  These  three 
thus  supplied  more  than  half  of  the  total  number.  The  record 
continued  with  Williams  sixty-two,  Amherst  forty-six,  Brown 
thirty-eight,  Bowdoin  thirty-two,  Hamilton  twenty-two,  and 
Union  sixteen.  In  the  first  thirty-eight  years  of  the  school's 
existence  twenty  different  colleges  were  represented.  Andover 
thus  brought  together  into  a  close  fraternity  men  for  the  min- 
istry who  otherwise  might  have  remained  provincially  minded. 
And  in  the  first  quarter  century  of  the  Seminary's  history 
sixty-seven  men  were  commissioned  as  foreign  missionaries. 
Altogether  fifteen  hundred  students  sat  in  Andover  class- 
rooms in  less  than  forty  years. 

It  was  some  time  before  those  who  came  were  persuaded 
that  the  theological  discipline  required  three  full  years  in  prep- 
aration for  pastoral  responsibilities.  Less  than  two-thirds  of 
the  whole  number  of  students  completed  the  three  years' 
course.  Some  came  to  receive  instruction  in  a  single  subject 
or  from  a  particular  professor.  The  curriculum  rather  en- 
couraged such  a  method,  for  it  was  organized  on  the  principle 
of  concentration  on  a  single  field  of  discipline,  biblical  studies 
during  the  first  year,  theology  for  the  second  year,  and  homi- 
letics  with  a  little  church  history  for  the  third  year.  The  junior 
class  usually  declined  in  numbers  as  the  year  wore  on.  Certain 
students  were  impatient  to  get  settled  in  a  parish.  To  one  such 
youth  who  claimed  that  he  must  be  sowing  the  gospel  seed  a 
professor  suggested  that  it  might  be  advisable  to  get  some 
seed  to  sow.    Sometimes  the  real  reason  for  a  theologue's 


haste  was  his  desire  to  marry.  The  health  of  not  a  few  stu- 
dents broke  down  and  a  number  died.  Too  sedentary  an  occu- 
pation following  upon  farm  work  sapped  the  health,  and 
insufficient  or  improper  nourishment  took  its  toll.  Pecuniary 
difficulties  hampered  some  and  prevented  a  continuance  of 
study,  in  spite  of  the  low  cost  of  living  in  the  school,  and  the 
student  aid  that  was  provided.  Certain  men  improved  an 
opportunity  to  teach.  A  few  shifted  to  another  seminary  for 
denominational  reasons,  as  when  the  Baptists  founded  Newton 
Theological  Institution  in  1825.  As  an  offset  other  men  entered 
to  advanced  standing. 

The  founders  realized  the  need  of  substantial  buildings, 
and  when  the  need  arrived  they  were  ready  to  make  generous 
provision.  The  ground  available  for  construction  needed  to 
be  landscaped.  It  was  a  field  of  rocks  and  bushes.  A  stone 
wall  surrounded  the  present  campus.  There  was  need  of  super- 
intendence in  putting  the  grounds  in  order,  and  it  became  a 
frequent  spectacle  to  see  the  dignified  form  of  Professor  Pear- 
son perched  aloft  among  the  branches  of  a  neighboring  tree. 
From  this  vantage  point  he  planned  and  directed  the  improve- 
ment of  the  grounds.  Before  everything  was  in  order  students 
had  made  gravel  walks  across  the  campus ;  maple,  chestnut, 
birch,  and  especially  elms,  were  shading  the  area ;  and  the 
place  began  to  resemble  the  classic  environment  of  college 
students. 

The  first  three  of  the  oldest  structures  which  constituted 
Brick  Row  was  Phillips  Hall.  This  was  the  gift  of  the  Phillips 
family,  and  was  completed  during  the  first  year  of  the  Semi- 
nary. It  was  constructed  of  brick  with  a  slate  roof,  was  four 
stories  in  height,  and  was  divided  in  the  middle,  with  a  front 
and  a  rear  entry  on  each  side.  The  building  contained  thirty 
rooms  for  students,  and  one  room  in  the  building  was  used 
successively  as  chapel,  reading  room,  and  a  memorial  to  one 
of  the  later  professors. 

An  unpublished  letter  which  was  written  on  Thanksgiving 
Day,  1825,  gives  a  glimpse  of  the  building.  Addison  Kingsbury 
had  entered  the  Seminary  as  a  junior,  and  he  relates  his  ex- 
periences to  his  brother.   Leaving  Boston  by  stagecoach  on  a 

\27\ 


Saturday  afternoon  with  eleven  passengers  inside  and  four 
outside,  he  spent  three  hours  on  the  road,  reaching  Andover 
about  seven  o'clock  in  the  evening.  Then  he  continued:  "I 
have  had  some  trouble  in  getting  located,  as  the  rooms  were 
principally  taken  up.  I  have  at  last  succeeded  in  obtaining  a 
room  in  the  fourth  story,  though  with  few  or  no  accommoda- 
tions. I  expected  the  rooms  were  furnished.  I  accordingly 
brought  no  furniture  with  me  and  I  find  none  here  of  conse- 
quence except  a  poor  bed  without  any  clothing.  I  have  how- 
ever succeeded  in  obtaining  some  from  a  society  that  fur- 
nishes students  in  certain  cases.  My  tables  are  not  fit  to  stand 
in  your  old  kitchen,  and  as  for  chairs  I  am  now  sitting  upon  one 
without  any  back  writing  to  you.  .  .  .  However  I  am  not  dis- 
posed to  complain,  though  I  have  complained,  but  I  would 
have  students  come  on  here  with  their  eyes  open  and  with  the 
expectation  of  finding  very  inferior  accommodations  the  first 
year."  He  says  that  the  older  classes  of  students  have  every- 
thing comfortable  and  pleasant  in  Bartlet  Hall. 

The  second  building  to  be  erected  in  Brick  Row  was  Bartlet 
Chapel.  This  was  the  gift  of  the  generous  benefactor,  William 
Bartlet,  to  whom  Trustees  and  Faculty  turned  as  needs  de- 
manded. Already  he  had  provided  houses  for  the  professors, 
as  well  as  contributing  liberally  to  the  endowment.  Now  in 
1818  he  was  ready  to  pay  for  a  chapel  building  in  Bulfinch 
design,  which  would  include  classrooms  as  well  as  a  place  for 
devotions.  As  bricks  made  in  Newburyport  were  better  than 
those  made  in  Andover,  it  was  arranged  that  four  powerful 
oxen  should  haul  them  over  the  hills,  and  so  again  Newbury- 
port came  to  Andover.  The  new  building  originally  was  three 
stories  high,  with  a  small,  round  cupola.  The  room  for  the 
chapel  occupied  one  side  of  the  building  on  the  main  floor,  and 
the  library  was  housed  above  it.  On  the  other  side  of  the  chapel 
were  three  classrooms.  Some  confusion  was  caused  by  the 
fact  that  the  building  at  first  was  called  Bartlet  Hall,  but 
when  the  second  dormitory  was  built  in  1821  the  name  Bartlet 
Hall  was  transferred  to  that,  and  the  chapel  building  was 
called  Bartlet  Chapel. 

The  increasing  number  of  students  was  making  more  dor- 

i28y 


mitory  space  imperative.  Many  of  the  students  had  to  find 
lodgings  at  a  distance.  WiUiam  Bartlet  again  was  equal  to  the 
occasion.  One  morning  the  professors  found  his  men  at  work 
excavating  the  cellar.  The  newest  addition  was  a  three-story 
brick  structure,  one  hundred  by  forty  feet,  and  flanked  the 
Chapel  on  the  right,  completing  Brick  Row.  It  was  the  most 
pretentious  of  the  three  buildings,  for  its  thirty-two  rooms 
were  arranged  in  suites  of  a  sitting-room  and  two  bedrooms. 
Each  sitting-room  had  a  fireplace  with  a  broad  hearth,  and  an 
opening  above  for  a  stovepipe  in  case  stoves  were  preferred. 
For  convenience  the  back  of  the  fireplace  had  an  iron  door 
through  which  ashes  might  be  started  towards  the  cellar.  The 
building  was  ornamented  with  Venetian  blinds.  The  rooms 
were  furnished  by  Mrs.  Bartlet. 

John  Todd,  a  student  in  1823,  described  his  own  room  in 
Bartlet  Hall  as  square  and  the  floor  painted  yellow.  "Here 
you  will  find,"  he  wrote,  ''my  chum  and  myself  each  bending 
over  a  comfortable  writing-desk  laid  upon  two  marble-colored 
tables.  You  see  our  room  ornamented  with  four  pretty  chairs, 
a  beautiful  mahogany  bureau,  large  mirror — all  furnished  by 
the  munificent  Mr.  Bartlet.  All  the  rooms  in  this  building  are 
furnished  alike.  Nothing  could  add  to  our  convenience  if  we 
had  a  carpet.   But  this  is  of  little  consequence." 

The  completion  of  Brick  Row  fixed  the  outward  form  of 
the  Seminary  for  the  next  forty-five  years.  The  three  build- 
ings were  dignified  in  their  architecture  and  formed  a  unit  of 
equipment  sufficient  for  the  needs  of  the  school.  Andover 
Hill  was  not  a  lofty  height,  but  from  the  windows  of  the  build- 
ings it  was  possible  to  get  a  view  over  the  valley  through  which 
the  Shawsheen  River  flows,  and  to  glimpse  the  higher  reaches 
to  the  north.   Popularly  the  hill  was  called  Pisgah  or  Zion. 

The  expenses  of  student  life  were  small.  There  was  no 
tuition  to  pay,  rent  was  only  a  nominal  sum  of  two  to  four 
dollars  a  year,  and  board  in  Commons  was  cheap.  This  was 
fortunate  because  the  students  had  little  money,  but  they  were 
generous  with  one  another.  On  one  occasion,  when  an  impe- 
cunious man  appeared  with  a  family  of  four  children  and  no 
visible  means  of  support,  the  students  were  ready  to  share 

i29y 


with  the  family  what  little  they  had.  The  Faculty  reported 
to  the  Trustees  at  the  end  of  the  first  ten  years  that  the  indigent 
state  of  most  of  the  students  made  it  advisable  not  to  impose 
any  fines  for  damage  done  to  library  books.  Addison  Kings- 
bury spent  in  making  himself  reasonably  comfortable  the  sum 
that  he  had  intended  for  the  purchase  of  books,  and  he  had  to 
get  his  first  books  on  credit,  with  interest  payable  after  three 
months. 

Students  were  responsible  in  general  for  heating  their  own 
rooms.  Once  a  year  they  appointed  a  committee  on  wood 
whose  duty  it  was  to  arrange  for  the  necessary  fuel.  They 
aided  in  the  expense  of  heating  the  lecture  rooms,  but  at  a 
time  when  most  meetinghouses  were  unheated  it  is  not  sur- 
prising that  the  dining-room  in  which  they  sat  thrice  a  day 
was  unwarmed  for  a  considerable  time.  In  the  winter  of  1832 
the  students  voted  "to  request  Squire  Farrar  to  mend  the  old, 
or  procure  a  new  stove  for  the  lower  lecture  room,  lest  our 
mental  energies  go  off  in  fermo." 

Many  common  conventions  which  now  are  regarded  as 
necessities  were  as  lacking  as  they  were  in  the  homes  from 
which  the  students  came.  There  was  no  water  supply  in  town 
except  wells,  and  students  drew  water  in  their  own  pitchers 
out-of-doors,  and  carried  fuel  for  their  wood-stoves  upstairs 
from  the  Seminary  woodpile.  They  took  care  of  their  own 
rooms  when  attention  seemed  to  be  required,  made  their  beds 
and  trimmed  their  lamps,  as  they  had  done  in  college.  Three 
times  a  day  they  visited  the  Commons,  which  was  provided  by 
the  Trustees,  and  which  stood  in  the  rear  of  the  Chapel.  The 
Trustees  had  a  committee  of  exigencies,  which  promptly  in 
1808  licensed  Mrs.  Silence  Smith  "to  keep  boarders  agree- 
ably to  the  rules  of  the  Trustees."  About  ten  years  later  the 
same  committee  voted  that  Daniel  Cummings  "be  licensed  to 
keep  boarders  provided  upon  examination  it  be  found  that 
he  prays  in  his  family." 

The  refectory  was  a  low,  brown,  two-story  house.  The  fare 
was  simple,  and  hardly  made  more  appetizing  by  the  discus- 
sions of  dour,  theological  questions.  At  times  it  became  neces- 
sary to  economize  in  the  kitchen,  and  the  students  were  inclined 


to  rebel  at  such  a  substitution  as  molasses  for  meat.  Indeed, 
it  is  among  the  legends  of  Andover  that  a  certain  student  fell 
sick  and  after  the  medical  practice  of  the  day  the  physician 
resorted  to  blood-letting.  But  to  the  amazement  of  the  prac- 
titioner the  veins  of  the  theologue  oozed  nothing  but  syrup. 

The  Founders  seem  to  have  believed  in  plain  living  along 
with  high  thinking,  even  for  the  Trustees.  Article  33  of  the 
Constitution  ruled  that ''  decent  not  extravagant  entertainment 
shall  be  made  for  the  Trustees  while  attending  the  annual 
meeting  of  the  Board."  Much  less  was  the  living  of  the  stu- 
dents extravagant.  The  poverty  of  the  table  was  aggravated 
by  the  fact  that  the  students  ate  in  a  cold  dining-room.  The 
Faculty  brought  this  matter  to  the  attention  of  the  Trustees 
after  an  experience  of  ten  years  had  shown  this  infelicity. 
Cautiously  they  said :  "You  will  permit  us  to  mention  that  .  .  . 
some  improvement  in  regard  to  diet  and  convenience  at  meals 
.  .  .  are  deserving  of  consideration.  We  refer  particularly 
to  the  fact  that  during  the  whole  winter  season  the  students 
are  accustomed  to  take  their  meals  in  a  room  without  fire- 
place or  stove.  This  custom  occasions  some  difficulties  which 
it  is  desirable  to  avoid."  The  students  shivered  through  hur- 
ried meals  and  preserved  few  of  the  amenities.  To  render 
the  occasion  more  endurable  warm  bread  was  provided  every 
morning,  which  the  professors  regarded  as  ''very  prejudicial 
to  the  health  of  the  students."  The  students  did  not  complain 
directly,  but  "we  have  abundant  evidence,"  said  the  Faculty 
report,  "that  the  provision  of  a  warm  room  would  be  very 
grateful  to  all,  pecuHarly  so  to  those  who  are  in  feeble  health." 

The  students  themselves  had  doubts  about  the  wholesome- 
ness  of  warm  bread,  and  the  records  of  the  Brethren  relate 
that  a  committee  of  three  was  appointed  to  interview  the  stew- 
ard regarding  the  desirability  of  substituting  cold  bread  for 
breakfast.  The  asceticism  of  the  New  England  Calvinist 
appears  again  during  the  same  period  when  the  students  voted 
"that  the  steward  be  requested  not  to  place  sugar  on  the  table." 
After  a  few  months  the  Brethren  appointed  a  committee  of 
one  "to  inquire  into  the  expediency  of  introducing  sugar  into 
the  hall  and  report  thereon."   A  year  later  it  was  voted  to  re- 


quest  Squire  Farrar  to  provide  sugar  for  the  Commons.  Per- 
haps it  was  penury  rather  than  asceticism  which  made  the 
students  sensitive  to  the  subject  of  sugar.  Two  years  later 
still,  about  the  time  when  the  matter  of  hot  bread  was  in  de- 
bate, the  sugar  discussion  seems  to  have  been  settled  by  a  vote 
of  the  students,  to  wit:  "xA.t  a  meeting  after  the  Professors' 
Conference  in  which  the  importance  of  retrenchment  in  things 
not  necessary  to  comfort  and  health  was  exhibited,  Voted, 
that  [three  persons]  be  a  committee  to  see  who  were  willing 
to  dispense  with  the  use  of  sugar  in  Commons." 

On  the  first  of  November  the  students  voted  a  definite  bill 
of  fare  :  "Resolved,  that  for  breakfast  we  have  milk,  prepared 
in  any  method  most  agreeable  to  each  brother,  bread  and  baked 
apples,  or  a  substitute.  For  dinner  one  kind  of  meat,  bread, 
and  a  sufficient  quantity  and  variety  of  vegetables.  For  supper 
milk,  bread,  and  butter."  Six  weeks  later  it  was  resolved  ''that 
those  brethren  who  cannot  eat  milk  in  the  morning  be  fur- 
nished with  butter  and  water  instead  of  it." 

The  next  year  gustatory  controversy  arose  in  the  Seminary, 
as  if  the  air  was  not  blue  enough  with  the  smoke  of  theological 
polemics.  Two  parties  developed,  one  favoring  the  ascetic 
principle  that  always  had  its  highest  exemplification  once  a 
year  on  Fast  Day,  the  other  leaning  towards  a  fair  degree  of 
self-indulgence.  Some  of  the  students  proposed  that  the 
board  be  simplified  beyond  the  bill  of  fare  aforementioned. 
Others  argued  that  the  body  was  sufficiently  subdued  in  the 
interests  of  the  spirit.  The  tide  of  feeling  rose  so  high  that  the 
Faculty  was  constrained  to  report  in  the  following  language 
to  the  Trustees:  '*The  system  of  retrenchment  in  Commons, 
which  was  a  voluntary  arrangement  of  the  students  last  year, 
originating  in  a  laudable  spirit  of  Christian  self-denial  and 
promising  important  results  as  to  the  health  of  the  Seminary 
and  the  economy  of  its  funds,  was  attended  with  some  diffi- 
culties among  themselves  from  the  beginning.  These  difficulties 
increased  during  the  last  winter,  so  as  to  produce  feelings  of 
jealousy  and  strife  to  an  unhappy  extent.  .  .  .  We  lament  the 
unfavorable  influence  which  the  causes  of  excitement.  .  .  have 
exerted  on  the  piety  of  the  Seminary."   The  matter  was  not 

i^2y 


ended  until  one  of  the  students  was  dismissed  from  the  school. 

Before  the  next  Thanksgiving  Day  a  majority  of  the  stu- 
dents petitioned  the  Faculty  that  they  might  have  tea  and 
coffee  added  to  the  bill  of  fare.  Professor  Woods  held  a  con- 
ference with  seventy-five  of  them  and  by  inquiries  elicited 
the  information  that  twenty-five  were  opposed  to  the  indul- 
gence, but  except  in  three  cases  they  would  acquiesce  if  the 
Faculty  thought  it  best  to  make  the  change.  The  three  opposed 
the  change  on  account  of  the  added  cost  of  meals,  but  when  it 
was  proposed  that  other  students  meet  the  extra  expense  for 
them,  they  declared  that  they  were  able  to  pay  their  own  board. 
The  professor  then  announced  that  the  petition  was  granted, 
and  tea  and  coffee  would  be  served  henceforth.  Commons  was 
abolished  in  1845. 

It  is  easy  to  understand  that  students  suffered  from  indi- 
gestion. Summer  epidemics  were  common ;  on  one  occasion 
so  many  were  ill  that  classes  had  to  be  suspended.  A  severe 
epidemic  occurred  in  the  winter  of  1826.  Frequently  students 
nursed  one  another  through  diseases  that  in  these  days  would 
receive  hospital  treatment.  The  Constitution  anticipated  a 
day  when  the  school  would  have  its  own  private  hospital.  In 
1824  an  infirmary  actually  was  built  and  named  Samaritan 
House,  but  it  was  not  erected  by  the  Trustees.  The  women 
of  the  community  in  the  kindness  of  their  hearts  had  formed 
the  Samaritan  Female  Society  of  Andover  and  Vicinity  for  the 
purpose  of  aiding  the  poor  students  of  the  Academy  and  the 
Seminary  who  were  ill  and  preparing  for  them  free  "rooms, 
bedding,  furniture,  fuel,  diet,  medicine,  nurses,  physicians, 
necessaries,  and  comforts,  as  may  be  requisite  and  proper  for 
their  respective  cases." 

The  preamble  to  the  constitution  of  the  Society  read 
quaintly  :  "  Several  females  in  the  vicinity  of  Phillips  Academy 
and  of  the  Theological  Institution  in  Andover,  having  been 
frequently  called  to  witness  among  the  students,  and  especially 
the  indigent  (of  which  last  description  there  are  in  both  semi- 
naries more  than  a  hundred  individuals)  various  and  affect- 
ing cases  of  sickness  and  distress,  which  with  their  best  exer- 
tions it  has  not  been  in  their  power  to  relieve  according  to  their 


wishes,  either  by  receiving  the  sufferers  into  their  families, 
providing  them  nurses,  or  supplying  them  with  comforts  and 
necessaries,  as  their  situation  required ;  and  as  it  is  not  in  the 
power  of  the  guardians  of  these  seminaries,  without  violation 
of  their  sacred  trust,  to  apply  the  funds  to  any  other  purpose 
than  those  to  which  they  are  so  wisely  appropriated ;  ...  in 
view  of  these  and  other  reasons,  too  numerous  to  be  named, 
after  mutual  and  deliberate  consultation,  agreed  on  the  fourth 
day  of  April,  1817,  to  form  a  society  for  the  purpose,  and  upon 
the  principles,  contained  in  the  following  constitution."  Two 
officers  were  charged  with  specific  ministries.  The  almoner 
should  "have  the  charge  of  keeping  in  a  proper  state  the  rooms, 
beds,  furniture,  clothes,  and  all  other  articles,  provided  and 
given  for  the  accommodation  and  comfort  of  the  sick;  of 
superintending  the  use  and  distribution  of  the  same,  and  also 
the  principal  care  of  giving  due  notice  of  the  particular  cases, 
w^ants  and  necessities  of  the  sick,  agreeably  to  the  general  or 
special  order  of  the  directors.  The  collector  will  be  expected 
to  use  her  diligence  as  well  in  procuring  necessaries  and  com- 
forts for  immediate  use  of  the  indigent  sick,  as  in  collect- 
ing subscriptions  for  the  support  of  this  establishment." 

"These  exertions  are  made  with  the  pleasing  expectation, 
that  the  Honorable  and  Reverend  Trustees  of  Phillips  Acad- 
emy will  extend  the  wing  of  their  protection  over  an  institu- 
tion, devoted  to  the  relief  of  their  indigent,  sick,  and  helpless 
pupils." 

The  health  of  the  students  was  a  matter  of  frequent  concern. 
As  early  as  18 12  the  Faculty  recommended  to  the  Trustees 
the  building  of  a  wood-house,  for  the  storing  of  the  students' 
supply  and  as  a  means  of  exercise  for  the  students,  who  could 
not  swing  an  axe  in  the  cellar  of  the  hall,  because  the  ceiling 
was  so  low.  Before  long  the  professors  thought  it  possible 
that  some  exercise  might  be  devised  which  would  be  beneficial 
to  the  student  and  advantageous  to  the  Seminary  at  the  same 
time,  and  they  proposed  the  erection  of  a  workshop  and  the 
enlargement  of  the  garden  of  the  Commons,  and  the  employ- 
ment of  a  gardener  to  teach  the  students  agriculture.  They 
advised  that  "a  garden,  abounding  in  all  the  succulent  roots 


and  plants  which  are  healthful,  would  diminish  rather  than 
increase  the  expenses  of  living." 

Whether  the  Trustees  thought  that  the  Faculty  should  not 
be  encouraged  to  make  suggestions,  or  that  the  students  ought 
to  understand  gardening  without  special  instruction,  they  con- 
tented themselves  with  suggesting  to  the  Faculty  that  they 
require  manual  labor  from  the  students  for  one  or  two  hours 
a  day  on  the  land  of  the  Seminary.  After  twelve  years  had 
passed  the  committee  of  exigencies  was  authorized  to  provide 
a  workshop.  This  was  a  rude,  stone  structure,  equipped  with 
tools  and  benches  built  at  the  north  end  of  the  Commons,  and 
there  the  students  fashioned  coffins,  wheelbarrows,  and  other 
useful  articles. 

The  Mechanical  Association  was  organized,  which  rented 
the  building  from  the  Trustees,  but  the  students  were  not  per- 
mitted to  have  a  fire  because  it  would  be  "unsafe  and  inex- 
pedient." Making  coffins  in  an  unheated  room  did  not  prove 
popular,  though  the  children  of  the  professors  created  an 
occasional  diversion  when  they  played  among  the  shavings. 
"Hammered  in,"  says  the  annalist,  "were  the  Greek  and  He- 
brew, homiletics  and  ecclesiastical  history,  election,  free  grace, 
natural  depravity,  and  justification  by  faith — hammered 
down  tight  and  the  nail  clinched  on  the  other  side." 

The  business  experiment  of  the  students  was  not  successful 
financially.  The  Association  became  bankrupt  with  a  debt  of 
nearly  one  thousand  dollars,  and  the  students  who  were  re- 
sponsible for  it  were  scattered.  The  Trustees  refused  to 
assume  any  responsibility  in  the  matter,  though  the  Faculty 
suggested  that  the  credit  of  the  school  was  involved.  The  work- 
shop stood  vacant  until  it  was  remodeled  for  the  home  of  Pro- 
fessor Calvin  E.  Stowe.  There  his  wife,  Harriet  Beecher 
Stowe,  wrote  "Dred"  and  "The  Minister's  Wooing."  The 
building  was  used  later  as  a  boarding  house,  and  after  the 
Mansion  House  was  burned  in  1887  it  became  the  Phillips 
Inn.  The  Mansion  House  had  an  interesting  history.  It  had 
been  built  on  Main  Street  in  1782  when  Judge  Phillips  wished 
to  leave  his  earlier  residence  on  the  Abbot  estate,  where  the 
Academy  had  been  born  and  where  later  Professor  Woods 


lived,  to  the  principal  of  the  Academy.  The  new  house  was 
the  most  pretentious  dwelling  in  town,  and,  like  numerous 
other  New  England  houses,  was  visited  at  one  time  by  George 
Washington.  After  enjoying  its  elegance  for  twenty  years 
Judge  Phillips  died,  and  the  Trustees  purchased  the  property, 
which  from  that  time  was  called  the  Mansion  House,  and  dur- 
ing a  large  part  of  the  century  was  the  hotel  of  the  village.  It 
was  proud  of  such  visitors  as  Webster,  Jackson,  and  Lafayette. 

For  exercise  the  students  blasted  and  cleared  away  rocks 
from  the  Missionary  Field  back  of  the  buildings,  worked  on 
the  campus  grounds,  and  rambled  about  the  vicinity.  Two 
students,  one  of  whom  became  a  well-known  college  professor, 
used  to  race  each  other  around  a  three-mile  triangle  on  winter 
mornings  before  sunrise  to  give  tone  to  breakfast  and  the  day's 
work.  Professor  Park,  when  a  student  at  Andover,  arose  at 
4.30  and  walked  with  another  student  over  Indian  Ridge  or 
through  Carlton's  Woods,  practising  elocutionary  exercises 
in  order  to  develop  his  oratorical  powers.  The  professors  were 
so  concerned  with  the  health  of  the  students  that  in  1830  they 
proposed  that  triennially  a  course  of  lectures  on  ''Hygeia,"  or 
''the  art  of  preserving  health,"  should  be  given  by  a  "sober- 
minded  and  eminent  physician." 

The  students  do  not  seem  to  have  been  miserable,  perhaps 
because  they  were  seldom  idle.  It  was  the  duty  of  the  Faculty 
to  keep  them  busy,  and  they  did  their  duty,  for  they  were  con- 
scientious men  and  themselves  busy  withal.  A  student  at  An- 
dover in  1 819,  writing  to  a  lady  friend,  describes  his  daily 
routine.  ''We  are  at  present  in  very  small  business,  that  is, 
reviewing  the  Greek  grammar.  Besides  this  we  have  the  He- 
brew alphabet  to  learn.  But  I  have  quartos  around  me  enough 
to  frighten  a  very  timid  man  out  of  his  senses.  Our  living  is 
quite  as  good  as  I  expected.  .  .  .  That  you  may  know  how 
much  a  slave  a  man  may  be  at  Andover,  if  he  will  follow  the 
rules  adopted  by  the  majority,  I  will  give  the  order  of  the  day. 
By  rising  at  the  six  o'clock  bell  he  will  hardly  find  time  to  set 
his  room  in  order,  and  attend  to  his  private  devotions,  before 
the  bell  at  seven  calls  him  to  prayer  in  the  chapel.  From  the 
chapel  he  must  go  immediately  to  the  hall  and  by  the  time 


breakfast  is  ended,  it  is  eight  o'clock,  when  study  hours  com- 
mence and  continue  till  twelve.  Study  hours  again  from  half 
past  one  to  three.  Then  recitation,  prayer,  and  supper,  makes 
it  six  in  the  afternoon.  Study  hours  again  from  seven  to  nine 
leave  just  time  enough  for  evening  devotion  before  sleep. 
Now,  my  dear  Seraph,  if  you  can  tell  me  if  this  is  consistent 
with  those  means  to  preserve  health,  which  have  been  said  to 
be  so  abundantly  used  here,  I  will  confess  that  your  discern- 
ment far  exceeds  mine.  For  my  own  part  I  expect  to  become  an 
outlaw ;  for  I  will  not  be  so  much  confined.  Few  means  are 
wanting  to  enable  us  to  become  great  men ;  but  the  oppor- 
tunity to  kill  oneself  with  study  is  rather  too  good." 

Yet  life  went  on  then  in  far  more  leisurely  fashion  than  it 
does  now,  and  there  was  time  for  voluntary  association  among 
the  students  for  various  purposes.  In  the  absence  of  organized 
athletics  they  formed  their  associations  along  the  lines  of  their 
professional  or  religious  interests.  They  recognized  that  their 
relation  was  that  of  brothers  in  a  common  cause.  It  was  nat- 
ural, therefore,  that  they  should  give  the  name  Brethren  to 
their  association,  a  name  which  had  belonged  to  the  secret 
association  of  missionary  students  at  Williams,  originating  in 
1808 — and  should  resolve  to  call  one  another  *' brethren"  in 
all  public  remarks  in  chapel  and  the  dining  hall.  About  the 
same  time  they  resolved  that  it  was  improper  and  unbecoming 
for  any  brother,  a  member  of  the  institution,  to  sell  pamphlets 
or  books  of  any  kind  for  the  purpose  of  making  money.  Yet 
they  gave  an  agent  of  the  student  body  a  commission  on  the 
purchase  of  books,  and  charged  the  students  assessments  for 
the  running  expenses  of  the  association. 

The  Brethren  in  that  same  year  asked  the  authorities  for 
fire-fenders  in  their  rooms;  when  none  were  forthcoming 
they  provided  their  own  at  the  suggestion  of  Squire  Farrar. 
They  voted  to  procure  pails  for  carrying  ashes  to  the  cellars, 
and  a  week  later  they  showed  their  versatility  and  good  will 
by  voting  to  print  ninety  catalogues  *'at  the  expense  of  the 
College,"  for  distribution  to  the  professors  and  other  gentle- 
men, and  for  use  at  the  next  Anniversary.  The  students  voted 
to  adopt  certain  study  hours  when  order  and  silence  should 


be  observed.  These  were  to  be  from  eight  to  twelve  in  the  fore- 
noon, from  two  to  four  in  the  afternoon,  and  from  seven  to 
nine  in  the  evening.  Detailed  rules  were  made  regarding  con- 
duct, forbidding  noise,  laughter,  and  loud  talking  and  such 
indoor  sports  as  walking  about  for  exercise  or  amusement, 
battledore,  and  jumping  a  rope.  They  insisted  that  students 
who  injured  property  should  pay  the  costs,  and  if  the  persons 
were  unknown  that  the  costs  should  be  met  from  the  treasury 
of  the  association. 

On  one  occasion  three  members  were  appointed  a  committee 
of  furniture,  whether  to  repair  damages  or  appraise  values  or 
replace  with  new  furniture  is  not  recorded.  Presumably  axes 
were  for  chopping  wood,  but  one  would  like  to  know  what 
prompted  the  vote  to  auction  all  the  axes  belonging  to  the 
school  and  deposit  the  proceeds  in  the  treasury.  Was  it  be- 
cause they  were  worn  out,  dull,  or  rusted?  Was  it  because 
some  other  means  of  splitting  wood  had  been  invented,  or 
were  the  axes  dangerous  to  furniture  or  to  life?  Unfortu- 
nately it  was  not  one  of  the  duties  of  the  recorder  to  explain 
motives.  An  annual  committee  was  appointed  *'to  regulate  the 
wood."  Apparently  there  was  danger  that  an  absent-minded 
individual  might  act  contrary  to  the  common  good.  That  the 
Brethren  were  publicly  minded  is  clear  from  a  vote  to  spend 
money  for  warming  the  chapel,  and  another  to  clear  away 
stones  from  a  place  intended  for  a  garden. 

It  seemed  good  to  the  members  to  appoint  a  recorder  to  pre- 
serve a  proper  record  of  the  actions  taken  by  the  association ; 
some  of  the  records  are  unconsciously  humorous.  Among  the 
first  items  recorded  was  a  vote  to  establish  a  post  office  in  the 
institution,  to  provide  a  letter-box  **of  convenient  dimensions" 
for  letters  and  packages  destined  for  the  mails,  and  to  keep 
the  key  in  one  after  another  of  the  students'  rooms,  as  an  indi- 
vidual was  responsible  for  carrying  the  mail.  A  little  later  it 
was  voted  to  open  a  correspondence  with  theological  students 
at  Yale,  and  two  years  afterward  with  similar  students  at 
Union  College. 

An  early  vote  of  the  association  was  that  '*no  brother  carry 
a  light  into  the  cellar  in  the  evening."  Again,  one  is  curious  as 


to  the  motive.  Was  it  wood  or  cider  that  he  might  be  after,  or 
was  he  fond  of  ways  that  were  dark?  Was  it  simply  a  pre- 
caution against  fire  ?  An  early  misfortune  was  the  burning  of 
one  of  the  buildings  on  the  Hill,  and  after  that  the  Faculty  made 
stringent  fire  laws,  forbidding  students  to  carry  fire  from  one 
stove  or  hearth  to  another ;  to  leave  the  room  where  there  was 
an  open  fire  for  more  than  five  minutes  without  **  taking  the 
fire  down  from  the  andirons  and  putting  it  in  such  a  state  that 
it  cannot  fall  or  roll  out  upon  the  hearth  " ;  to  carry  out  ashes 
at  any  time  except  in  the  morning  and  then  to  the  proper  re- 
ceptacle; to  read  by  the  light  of  a  candle  in  bed,  or  **set  his 
candle  when  he  retires  to  rest  where  the  snuff  can  come  in 
contact  with  any  clothing  or  inflammable  matter"  ;  to  *'go  into 
any  part  of  the  chapel  or  lecture  rooms  with  a  lighted  cigar  or 
smoke  any  tobacco  in  the  same,  nor  shall  he  on  any  occasion 
smoke  any  tobacco  abroad  or  near  any  of  the  buildings  con- 
nected with  the  Seminary."  A  pail  of  water  was  to  be  kept  in 
each  room  through  the  night.  And  a  committee  of  safety  was 
appointed  to  inspect  the  rooms  at  least  three  times  a  week.  The 
students  voted  to  make  the  Mechanical  Association  the  fire 
department  of  the  school. 


iS9y 


CHAPTER   III 

STUDENTS  AND  FACULTY 

STUDENT  activities  in  any  school  are  divided  between 
.  tasks  prescribed  by  the  Faculty  and  enterprises  which 
'  they  undertake  for  themselves.  Certain  common  interests 
produce  group  organizations.  In  the  absence  at  Andover  of 
baseball  and  football,  tennis  and  golf  and  track  athletics,  physi- 
cal exercise  was  taken  individually,  but  musical,  literary,  and 
missionary  societies  were  soon  among  the  extra-curricula 
activities.  Practice  in  music  was  not  far  removed  from  the  cur- 
riculum, and  after  a  few  years  the  Faculty  ruled  that  "every 
student,  whose  voice  and  health  will  permit,  shall  devote  so 
much  time  to  study  and  practice  of  sacred  music,  as  will  enable 
him  with  understanding  and  spirit  to  take  an  active  part  in 
sounding  the  high  praises  of  God  in  seasons  of  public  de- 
votion." 

A  voluntary  musical  association  was  organized  in  1812,  and 
reorganized  five  years  later,  to  continue  for  decades  as  the 
Lockhart  Society  for  Improvement  in  Sacred  Music.  "It  is 
proper  for  those  who  are  to  preside  in  the  assemblies  of  God's 
people,"  said  the  organizers  of  the  Society,  "to  possess  them- 
selves of  so  much  skill  and  taste  in  this  sublime  art  as  at  least 
to  distinguish  between  those  solemn  movements  which  are 
congenial  to  pious  minds,  and  those  unhallowed,  trifling  med- 
ley pieces  which  chill  devotion ;  it  is  expected  that  serious 
attention  will  be  paid  to  the  culture  of  a  true  taste  for  genuine 
church  music  in  this  Seminary." 

The  musical  association  stated  that  all  students  in  the  Semi- 
nary who  had  "tolerable  voices"  would  be  instructed  in  the 
theory  and  practice  of  "this  celestial  art,"  and  it  was  expected 
that  one  of  the  professors,  if  it  should  be  within  the  range  of 
his  abilities,  would  give  the  necessary  instruction,  or  that  a 

i4oy 


special  instructor  would  be  provided  for  that  purpose.  The 
Seminary  actually  paid  the  expenses  of  musical  instruction 
at  times,  usually  appointing  the  man  who  had  been  elected  the 
president  of  the  association.  It  seems  rather  unreasonable  to 
have  expected  any  of  the  professors  of  those  years  to  have 
been  sufficiently  proficient  to  become  a  musical  coach,  but  the 
drill  of  the  singing  school,  so  common  at  that  period,  lent  a 
fair  presumption  to  the  expectation. 

The  association  at  first  provided  for  open  membership,  but 
it  was  that  provision  which  seems  to  have  brought  about  reor- 
ganization, for  then  the  principle  of  selective  membership  was 
substituted.  Either  too  many  voices  were  intolerable,  or  not 
all  the  members  took  the  organization  seriously  enough.  Even 
after  the  reorganization  it  was  necessary  occasionally  to  use 
discipline.  It  is  recorded  with  all  seriousness  that  a  certain 
brother  by  the  name  of  Smith  was  derelict  in  attendance  on 
the  meetings  of  the  Society,  for  it  was  a  rule  that  unless  the 
student  were  ill  or  out  of  town  he  must  attend,  and  when  the 
brother  absented  himself  without  permission,  and  without 
giving  any  reason  therefor  and  failed  to  mend  his  ways,  he 
was  summarily  "dismembered"  by  vote  of  the  Society. 

The  records  of  the  treasurer  are  sprinkled  plentifully  with 
fines  of  six  and  a  quarter  and  twelve  and  a  half  cents  imposed 
for  tardiness,  and  this  at  a  time  when  pennies  were  so  scarce 
among  the  students  that  the  Faculty  was  recommending  to 
the  Trustees  not  to  lay  any  library  fines  upon  them.  An  assess- 
ment of  seventy-five  cents  per  member  provided  the  necessary 
funds  for  the  purchase  of  musical  collections.  In  the  winter 
of  1832  an  attempt  was  made  to  get  Dr.  Lowell  Mason  of 
Boston  to  deliver  an  address  before  the  Society  at  the  end  of 
the  year,  but  he  declined  on  the  ground  that  his  whole  time  was 
taken  up  with  numerous  engagements.  Subsequently  he 
showed  his  good  will  by  submitting  a  copy  of  his  Choir  for 
review  by  the  Society,  modestly  suggesting  that  a  testimonial 
as  to  its  excellence  would  be  appreciated.  The  book  was  there- 
fore referred  to  the  censors  for  their  judgment,  and  after 
critical  examination  a  resolution  was  sent  to  the  composer  with 
the  cheerful  recommendation  of  the  Society  to  all  lovers  of 

^4U 


music  and  those  who  esteem  it  a  privilege  to  aid  in  so  interest- 
ing a  part  of  the  worship  of  the  sanctuary.  "We  are  enabled 
to  do  this,"  they  said,  "not  only  from  a  confidence  in  ye 
author's  good  taste  and  his  complete  knowledge  of  ye  science 
and  art  of  music,  but  from  our  own  acquaintance  with  ye  work. 
Although  its  music  does  not  partake  of  ye  grandeur  of  many 
other  of  ye  author's  productions,  its  melody,  a  quality  in  music 
much  overlooked  and  too  often  sacrificed  to  harmony,  is  of  a 
high  order  and  we  think  unequalled  in  any  collection  adapted 
to  ye  use  of  choirs  in  general."  In  due  time  Mason  became 
an  official  instructor  of  music  in  the  Seminary. 

The  question  of  musical  instruments  received  prolonged 
attention.  Instead  of  the  saxophone,  the  flute  was  in  vogue, 
and  seems  to  have  been  in  steady  demand.  One  performer  was 
excused  from  attending  the  meetings  of  the  Society  "in  con- 
sequence of  his  inability  to  play  the  flute  so  much  as  a  con- 
stant attendance  would  require."  The  time  came  when  the 
students  wished  to  own  a  double  bass  viol.  They  voted  to 
circulate  a  subscription  through  the  Seminary  in  order  to  raise 
money;  failing  in  this  they  asked  for  contributions  from  "the 
gentlemen  on  the  hill,"  and  with  faith  that  they  would  have 
one  they  delegated  a  committee  of  two  to  get  a  box  to  keep 
the  viol  in ;  but  at  last  they  were  compelled  to  resort  to  the 
treasurer  of  the  institution,  Samuel  Farrar.  The  committee 
that  was  delegated  for  the  purpose  called  upon  the  squire,  but 
without  much  success,  for  it  was  recorded  in  the  minutes  that 
the  committee  "have  for  some  time  weekly  reported  progress 
as  follows  in  a  beautiful  classical  hemstitch — 
'We  called  upon  Samuel  Farrar,  Esquire, 
We  went  where  he  was  and  he  wasn't  there ! '  " 
Whereupon  the  said  committee  as  often  had  leave  granted 
them  to  sit  again. 

Not  at  all  daunted  by  this  frustration  of  their  hopes,  the 
musical  brethren  ambitiously  resolved  two  years  later  to  have 
an  organ.  They  appointed  an  organ  committee.  This  com- 
mittee interviewed  the  Faculty  and  obtained  its  permission. 
The  next  thing  was  to  find  the  organ  and  the  committee  was 
instructed  to  "sit  farther  on  this  business,"  that  the  "organic 


affection"  might  be  gratified.  Squire  Farrar  of  the  Founders 
had  failed  them  in  the  matter  of  a  bass  viol ;  for  the  organ  they 
went  to  William  Bartlet  of  the  Associate  Founders.  One  of 
the  organ  committee  presently  reported  that  a  conversation 
with  Mr.  Bartlet  had  encouraged  them  to  hope  for  results. 
The  Society  then  voted  that  the  committee  be  instructed  to 
bring  the  matter  before  Mr.  Bartlet  as  often  and  in  such  man- 
ner as  their  sense  of  propriety  should  suggest.  Whether  or 
not  the  suggestion  was  made  once  too  often  is  not  clear,  but  the 
conclusion  of  the  matter  was  that  "the  venerable  donor  in  the 
plenitude  of  his  liberality"  stated  that  he  should  be  pleased 
to  see  an  organ  in  the  chapel  if  we  could  procure  one  ("what  a 
kind,  generous  wish!"),  but  he  could  not  do  everything.  De- 
mands had  recently  been  made  upon  him  and  he  felt  poor. 

Though  the  musical  ambitions  of  the  students  were  thus 
balked,  they  were  free  to  cultivate  their  literary  talents  with- 
out wind  instruments.  This  they  did  through  the  Porter  Rhe- 
torical Society.  It  was  a  time  when  oratory  was  esteemed 
highly  in  the  pulpit  as  on  the  hustings  and  in  the  halls  of 
Congress.  A  well-modulated  voice,  a  classical  diction,  well- 
rounded  periods,  and  an  irresistible  peroration,  brought  the 
preacher  to  his  conclusion  as  grandly  as  a  skilful  sailor  handles 
his  yacht  throughout  its  course  and  brings  it  to  the  dock  at 
exactly  the  end  of  a  graceful,  sweeping  arc. 

In  the  earliest  years  of  the  school  the  students  therefore 
felt  the  desirability  of  organizing  a  society  for  the  cultivation 
of  the  literary  and  oratorical  art.  It  was  fitting  that  they  should 
call  it  a  rhetorical  society,  since  the  name  of  the  homiletical 
department  was  that  of  sacred  rhetoric,  and  it  was  equally 
appropriate  that  they  should  style  it  the  Porter  Rhetorical 
Society  in  honor  of  the  occupant  of  that  chair.  The  purpose 
of  the  Society  as  stated  in  the  preamble  to  the  Constitution 
was  "to  improve  themselves  in  sacred  eloquence  for  the  pur- 
pose of  being  useful  to  mankind."  The  members  believed  that 
they  could  gain  fluency  and  effectiveness  in  speech  by  engag- 
ing in  debates  and  discussions  of  matters  of  Seminary  interest, 
and  they  wrote  and  declaimed  original  orations  for  practice 
in  expression  and  delivery.  The  Society  was  large  enough  to 

i43y 


organize  in  three  divisions,  each  with  its  own  officers.  Under- 
graduates were  admitted  to  membership  only  by  vote  of  the 
Society.  Literary  men  of  distinction  could  be  elected  honorary 
members  by  a  three-fourths  vote,  and  all  undergraduate  mem- 
bers became  honorary  members  upon  graduation.  Each  divi- 
sion of  the  Society  met  once  a  week  on  a  mid-week  evening, 
except  on  the  monthly  Thursday  when  a  joint  session  of  the 
divisions  was  held.  The  usual  program  of  exercises  included 
a  fifteen-minute  oration,  two  compositions  not  more  than 
eight  minutes  each  in  length,  with  dialogues  or  debates  when 
preferred,  and  extemporaneous  discussion  by  four  persons. 
The  participants  were  designated  by  ballot  and  due  notice  was 
given  of  their  appointments. 

Some  of  the  topics  that  were  discussed  reveal  the  subjects 
of  interest  that  appealed  to  the  student  mind  of  1823.  "Ought 
there  to  be  a  new  translation  of  the  Scriptures  ?"  If  Professor 
Porter  could  have  decided  the  question  he  might  have  agreed 
with  Professor  Stuart  that  the  original  Hebrew  of  the  Old 
Testament,  if  not  spoken  in  Paradise,  was  worthy  of  that 
honor.  Why  then  have  any  translation?  But  if  one  were 
deemed  necessary,  let  Professor  Stuart  supply  the  orthography 
and  syntax  and  Professor  Porter  the  rhetoric.  One  would 
like  to  know  what  conclusion  was  reached. 

A  question  of  perennial  interest  was:  "Is  the  practice  of 
preaching  written  sermons  better  calculated  to  do  good  than 
extemporaneous?"  It  required  native  gifts  of  oratory  for  the 
average  student  to  do  justice  to  this  subject,  but  he  knew  that 
the  unwritten  discourse,  other  things  being  equal,  was  more 
acceptable.  A  more  academic  question  was  whether  a  profes- 
sor was  justifiable  in  joining  in  a  dance.  Since  theological  pro- 
fessors were  not  accustomed  to  indulgence,  the  question  might 
sound  startling,  but  the  phrase  was  clarified  to  read  a  "pro- 
fessor of  religion,"  which  removed  the  Faculty  from  the  lime- 
light. It  was  more  than  an  academic  question,  for  in  spite  of 
their  soberness  of  demeanor  the  students  were  human. 

The  members  of  the  Society  were  treading  on  rather  deli- 
cate ground  when  they  asked :  "Ought  we  to  direct  our  efforts 
to  increase  the  number  of  ministers  in  our  country,  or  to  raise 

i44y 


the  standard  of  ministerial  qualifications?"  But  it  was  under- 
stood that  Andover  stood  for  high  standards.  Two  questions 
which  went  somewhat  outside  the  field  of  Seminary  concern, 
but  were  not  unpractical,  were  :  "Ought  ministers  to  endeavor 
to  exert  a  political  influence  ?"  and  "Is  it  the  duty  of  ministers 
to  become  Free  Masons?"  Perhaps  it  was  because  of  the  pre- 
vailing interest  in  missions  that  they  discussed:  "Has  the 
influence  of  the  British  government  in  India  been  beneficial 
to  the  latter?"  That  they  were  not  oblivious  to  American 
affairs  is  plain,  for  they  debated:  "Whether  on  the  supposi- 
tion that  the  allied  powers  interfere  in  relation  to  South 
America,  it  would  be  the  best  policy  for  this  country  to  unite 
with  England  in  opposition?"  If  they  could  have  known  how 
prominent  a  place  the  Monroe  Doctrine  would  come  to  have 
in  the  foreign  policy  of  the  United  States,  they  would  have 
thrown  the  discussion  open  to  the  public. 

Ten  years  later  the  temperance  agitation  had  begun,  and  the 
Porter  Rhetorical  Society  discussed  practical  methods  of  pro- 
moting sobriety  under  the  topic  :  "Ought  the  use  of  fermented 
liquors  as  a  drink  to  be  prohibited  by  the  temperance  pledge  ?" 
Not  all  promoters  of  temperance  believed  in  the  pledge  method, 
or  even  in  total  abstinence,  and  a  prohibitory  amendment  to 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  had  not  been  thought  of. 
The  last  meeting  in  1832  brought  out  lively  interest  in  the 
question  whether  the  Union  should  coerce  a  state  that  was 
determined  to  secede  from  it,  a  subject  of  keen  interest  when 
South  Carolina  was  threatening  nullification  of  federal  law. 
But  the  students  must  have  entered  with  even  more  zest  into 
the  question  whether  it  is  expedient  to  settle  ministers  for  life, 
and  especially:  "Is  it  expedient  for  a  theological  student  to 
enter  into  matrimonial  engagements  previously  to  the  com- 
mencement of  his  second  year  at  a  seminary,  supposing  him 
to  spend  three  years  getting  his  profession?" 

The  usefulness  of  the  Society  was  not  limited  to  the  presen- 
tation of  solutions  for  these  knotty  problems.  It  maintained 
a  library  of  hundreds  of  volumes  for  the  use  of  its  members, 
and  it  became  an  important  adjunct  of  the  Commencement 
exercises.   An  annual  celebration  of  the  Society  occurred  on 


the  day  preceding  the  Anniversaries,  with  an  oration  from 
an  honorary  member,  a  humbler  declamation,  and  a  poem 
not  less  than  fifteen  minutes  in  length  by  members  of  the 
Society.  The  participants  were  selected  by  ballot,  and  it  was 
understood  that  all  topics  were  to  be  of  a  religious  nature. 
It  came  to  be  a  regular  feature  of  Anniversary  week  that  the 
Porter  and  Lockhart  Societies  should  give  a  joint  exhibition, 
and  the  occasions  brought  out  large  audiences. 

For  the  encouragement  of  literary  appreciation  the  students 
organized  the  Review  Association  in  1818.  Subsequently  this 
was  renamed  the  Bartlet  Athenaeum.  It  was  considered  at 
first  to  be  an  experiment,  but  it  soon  showed  enough  value 
to  warrant  its  being  made  permanent.  It  was  the  hope  of  the 
members  to  cultivate  literary  taste  and  enjoyment,  as  well 
as  to  extend  their  information  by  subscribing  for  a  few  of  the 
best  periodicals  of  the  time.  The  literature  was  kept  as  a 
nucleus  of  a  library.  According  to  the  original  constitution 
the  number  of  members  was  limited  to  twelve,  six  to  be  from 
the  junior  class  and  three  each  from  the  middle  and  senior 
classes.  A  certain  ratio  of  membership  must  be  preserved 
from  different  colleges;  there  must  be  no  academic  cliques. 
The  annual  fee  was  set  at  two  dollars  and  a  half.  As  soon  as 
it  was  possible  to  find  a  suitable  reading-room  it  was  desirable 
that  more  literature  should  be  obtained,  so  that  the  number 
of  members  was  enlarged  and  the  annual  fee  was  dropped  to 
one  dollar.  Every  member  of  the  Association  was  expected 
to  solicit  donations  of  books  or  money,  and  the  donor's  name 
was  placed  in  the  books.  After  a  few  years  the  Association 
voted  that  if  any  person  should  be  so  generous  as  to  give  a 
present  of  fifty  dollars  to  the  Association  it  wOuld  change  its 
name  to  the  donor's  Athenaeum.  When  it  found  permanent 
quarters  in  Bartlet  Chapel,  it  changed  its  name  to  the  Bartlet 
Athenaeum,  another  reminder  of  the  Newburyport  philan- 
thropist, even  though  there  was  no  organ  to  sound  his  praises. 

In  the  early  days  one  of  the  members  was  chosen  librarian, 
and  it  was  his  duty  to  be  curator  of  the  literature,  to  keep 
open  house  in  his  room  for  two  hours  at  noon  to  the  mem- 
bers, and  to  make  loans  of  periodicals  to  members  in  their 

i46y 


alphabetical  order  for  a  term  not  exceeding  three  days.  At 
the  first  annual  meeting  it  was  voted  to  subscribe  the  next 
year  for  the  Edinburgh  Review,  the  London  Quarterly  Re- 
view, and  the  North  American  Review.  With  the  new  reading- 
room  available  it  was  decided  to  keep  quarters  open  whenever 
attendance  was  not  required  at  a  Seminary  appointment. 

The  activity  of  the  Association  was  not  limited  to  main- 
taining a  library  and  reading-room.  The  constitution  was 
revised  in  1819,  and  a  by-law  was  adopted  that  senior  mem- 
bers in  the  course  of  the  year  should  each  review  a  single 
publication  at  a  meeting  of  the  society.  The  approval  of  the 
Faculty  was  asked  for  the  revised  constitution,  the  preamble 
of  which  read  grandiloquently:  "Desirous  of  knowing  the 
present  state  of  the  civil,  literary,  and  moral  world ;  and  be- 
lieving this  knowledge  to  be  acquired  with  the  greatest  facility 
by  the  perusal  of  the  best  periodical  publications;  we,  the 
subscribers,  form  ourselves  into  a  society."  One  wonders 
if  the  style  of  language  improved  or  if  the  Faculty  pruned 
the  sentence,  for  when  another  revision  of  the  constitution 
was  made  ten  years  later  the  preamble  had  shrunk  to :  "  For 
the  purpose  of  having  access  to  the  current  intelligence  of 
the  day,  we,  the  subscribers,  form  ourselves  into  a  society." 

It  does  not  appear  that  time  improved  the  morals  and  man- 
ners of  the  students,  or  else  it  was  unfortunate  that  the  society 
had  admitted  too  many  honorary  members,  for  it  became 
advisable  to  add  to  the  list  of  officers  a  sheriff  and  four  con- 
stables. Fines  had  been  imposed  for  taking  literature  from 
the  room  of  the  society;  now  the  penalty  of  expulsion  was 
affixed  to  the  rules,  and  the  law  was  evidently  to  be  put  into 
force.  The  last  of  several  resolutions  adopted  in  1829  was  that 
whenever  the  president  of  the  Athenaeum  should  learn  that 
publications  were  missing  from  the  reading-room,  he  should 
immediately  lock  the  door  and  give  information  to  the  high 
sheriff,  who  should  forthwith  make  diligent  search  for  them. 

These  by-products  of  education  were  not  permitted  to  ob- 
scure the  regular  obligations  of  students  to  their  academic 
tasks.  Much  of  the  reading  of  the  students  was  under  Faculty 
direction,  and  at  least  once  a  year  the  student  must  report 

i47y 


his  reading  and  pass  an  examination  on  the  opinions  and  argu- 
ments of  the  principal  writers  whom  he  studied.  He  was 
examined  also  on  his  biblical  readings  in  the  original  languages 
of  the  Old  and  New  Testaments,  including  the  Septuagint. 

The  main  business  of  the  students  was  transacted  with 
theological  books  and  teachers.  Early  Andover  had  a  Faculty 
whose  prescribed  duty  it  was  "to  unlock  the  treasures  of  di- 
vine knowledge,  to  direct  pupils  in  their  inquiries  after  sacred 
truth,  to  guard  them  against  religious  error,  and  to  accelerate 
their  acquisition  of  heavenly  wisdom."  Men  who  had  the  self- 
confidence  to  accept  places  on  the  Andover  Faculty  needed  to 
be  endowed  generously  with  the  heavenly  graces.  They  were 
required  to  have  faith  in  divine  revelation,  and  hold  to  *'one 
living  and  true  God  and  the  Word  of  God,  the  only  perfect 
rule  of  faith  and  practice,"  and  they  were  reminded  expressly 
"that  God  is  a  Spirit,  infinite,  eternal,  unchanging,  in  being, 
wisdom,  power,  hoHness,  justice,  goodness  and  truth,  and 
that  the  Godhead  exists  in  three  persons."  And  then  they 
were  confronted  with  the  Andover  Creed. 

The  selection  of  the  first  Faculty  was  a  serious  undertaking, 
because  the  quality  of  the  teaching  would  set  a  standard  of 
scholarship  for  the  institution.  It  was  fortunate  that  Pearson 
and  Woods  were  well-qualified  teachers.  Eliphalet  Pearson 
was  a  learned  man,  with  an  extensive  knowledge  of  educa- 
tional matters  acquired  from  his  connection  with  Harvard. 
It  was  he  who  largely  determined  the  range  of  studies  in  the 
Andover  curriculum,  and  established  the  high  intellectual 
standards  for  which  Andover  became  noted.  He  had  a  wide 
acquaintance  with  men  and  a  practical  ability  to  make  a  project 
successful.  He  was  active  in  founding  education,  mission,  and 
temperance  societies.  He  was  the  first  president  of  the  Board 
of  Trustees  after  the  Seminary  was  started,  and  he  retained 
the  position  for  nineteen  years,  even  during  the  year  when 
he  was  a  professor.  But  the  qualities  that  had  made  him  a 
successful  principal  of  the  Academy  and  an  acceptable  pro- 
fessor at  Harvard  did  not  fit  so  well  the  temper  of  a  theologi- 
cal school  and  he  resigned  the  year  after  the  Seminary  opened, 
though  he  lived  fifteen  years  longer. 

i4sy 


Leonard  Woods  was  a  much  younger  man  than  Pearson, 
born  the  year  after  Pearson  graduated  from  Harvard.  After 
his  graduation  from  college  he  studied  divinity  with  Dr. 
Charles  Backus  of  Somers,  Connecticut.  He  was  attracted  to  a 
teaching  position  in  the  new  school  because  of  its  possibility  of 
wide  influence,  though  the  number  of  students  was  quite  un- 
certain, and  his  initial  salary  was  only  one  thousand  dollars, 
for  which  he  was  expected  to  give  some  instruction  in  church 
history  as  well  as  in  theology.  Once  in  the  Faculty  he  recon- 
ciled the  two  schools  of  thought  represented  in  the  Seminary 
as  far  as  possible.  In  the  classroom  he  had  the  reputation  of 
being  lucid  in  exposition,  thorough  in  his  study,  and  careful 
in  the  presentation  of  his  thought.  He  charged  his  pupils  to 
keep  close  to  the  Bible  as  the  test  of  doctrine,  for  he  believed 
that  it  was  the  immediate  gift  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  so  in- 
falHble  and  of  divine  authority.  He  was  equally  sure  that 
Calvinism  was  essential  to  the  prosperity  of  church  and  nation, 
and  that  a  theological  school  with  any  other  system  of  doc- 
trine would  be  a  curse  rather  than  a  blessing.  It  is  symbolic 
of  Andover's  staunch  theology  that  the  first  book  to  be  drawn 
from  the  Seminary  library  was  a  volume  of  the  works  of 
Jonathan  Edwards.  That  Professor  Woods  was  loyal  to  the 
Hopkinsian  principle  that  one  should  be  willing  to  be  damned 
for  the  glory  of  God,  appears  when  on  the  occasion  of  the 
birth  of  his  fifth  child  he  was  in  doubt  whether  he  ought  to 
ask  God  to  save  all  his  children. 

That  the  Calvinistic  theology  did  not  breed  hardness  of 
heart  is  plain  from  the  kindness  and  affection  which  Woods 
showed  in  his  domestic  life,  and  in  his  patience  and  sympathy 
with  his  friends  and  students.  But  Calvinism  was  a  militant 
faith  and  it  bred  theological  warriors.  Andover  professors 
were  expected  to  train  their  guns  of  orthodoxy  against  error, 
whether  within  or  outside  the  walls  of  embattled  Zion,  and 
the  Andover  professor  was  not  strange  to  theological  warfare. 
In  his  Commencement  oration  at  Harvard  Woods  had  eulo- 
gized ''the  brave  soldiers  who  fought  against  the  tyranny  of 
the  schools,  conquered  the  powerful  forces  of  that  despot, 
prejudice,  and  established  the  liberty  of  reason."   But  that  did 


not  make  him  tolerant.  In  the  very  same  oration  he  denounced 
the  Catholic  system  and  the  injury  that  it  had  done  to  the 
Italians,  saying:  "The  popes,  those  holy  thieves,  those  pen- 
sioners of  Satan,  have  exhausted  your  wealth  and  vigor,  and 
now  on  their  dying  beds,  bequeath  you  nothing  but  sensuality, 
superstition  and  ignorance."  Once  in  the  saddle  at  Andover 
he  engaged  in  jousts  with  the  Edwardeans  at  Yale  and  the 
Unitarians  in  the  old  Puritan  citadel  of  Harvard. 

He  was  enjoined  by  the  Andover  Constitution  to  lecture  on 
divine  revelation,  on  biblical  inspiration  as  proved  by  miracle 
and  prophecy,  and  by  internal  evidence  and  historical  facts ; 
on  the  great  doctrines  and  duties  of  religion,  and  the  refuta- 
tion of  objections,  "more  particularly  on  the  revered  char- 
acter of  God" ;  on  the  fall  of  man  and  human  depravity,  the 
nature  of  grace  and  the  atonement  of  Christ ;  the  Holy  Spirit ; 
the  Scriptural  doctrines  of  regeneration,  justification,  sancti- 
fication,  repentance,  faith,  and  obedience  ;  on  the  future  state  ; 
on  the  positive  institutions  of  Christianity ;  and  on  the  nature 
and  interpretation  of  prophecy. 

With  the  emphasis  on  dogma  and  polemics  it  might  seem 
unlikely  that  these  doughty  theologians  would  be  spiritual 
guides  as  well  as  warriors,  but  both  Woods  and  Stuart  felt 
that  it  was  an  important  part  of  their  obligation  to  converse 
with  individual  students  on  their  state  of  religion.  Against 
the  judgment  of  Pearson,  Woods  originated  a  Wednesday 
evening  conference  for  the  fostering  of  personal  piety.  All 
the  students  were  expected  to  attend,  and  either  Woods  or 
Stuart  met  them,  and  prayed  and  conversed  for  an  hour  in 
a  practical  way  on  the  whole  range  of  Christian  doctrine. 
Professor  Stuart  late  in  life  expressed  the  belief  that  the 
Wednesday  evening  conferences  were  the  most  valuable  con- 
tribution that  he  had  made  to  the  Seminary.  Group  prayer 
meetings  were  frequent,  and  a  general  prayer  meeting  of  the 
whole  school  was  held  once  a  month,  at  which  the  students 
prayed  for  the  colleges  from  which  they  had  come.  The  Semi- 
nary conference  was  transformed  later  into  the  prayer  meeting 
of  the  Seminary  church. 

Professor  Woods  lived  until  1854,  dying  in  the  full  maturity 

isoy 


LEONARD    WOODS 


MOSES    STUART 


AUSTIN    PHELPS 


EDWARDS    A.  PARK 


of  his  fourscore  years.  He  was  mourned  universally,  as  he 
was  laid  to  rest  in  the  Chapel  Cemetery.  That  plot  of  ground 
had  been  set  aside  by  the  Trustees  in  1810  as  a  burying  ground 
for  those  who  were  connected  with  the  two  schools.  It  was 
east  of  the  campus,  and  as  the  years  passed  the  funeral  pro- 
cessions were  many.  Students  who  died  before  the  comple- 
tion of  their  studies,  professors  and  members  of  their  families, 
trustees,  and  members  of  the  Academy,  there  found  their 
earthly  rest.  It  has  been  remarked  that  there  are  more  brains 
to  the  square  foot  in  Chapel  Cemetery  at  Andover  than  in  any 
similar  plot  of  ground  in  America.  In  1872  a  Cemetery  Asso- 
ciation was  organized  to  care  for  the  grounds,  and  this  was 
incorporated  thirty-five  years  later. 

The  third  professor  to  be  inducted  into  office  was  Edward 
Dorr  Griffin.  Griffin  was  the  leader  of  his  class  of  1790  at 
Yale,  and  then  studied  theology  with  Jonathan  Edwards,  Jr. 
William  Bartlet  had  made  provision  for  a  professorship  of 
sacred  rhetoric  as  well  as  of  sacred  literature,  and  when  the 
time  came  for  the  choice  of  an  incumbent  attention  turned  to 
the  man  who  for  eight  years  had  been  pastor  of  the  First 
Presbyterian  Church  in  Newark,  New  Jersey.  Bartlet  again 
exercised  his  power  of  appointment  to  the  chair,  which  then 
bore  the  title  of  Public  Eloquence.  Griffin  was  appointed  in 
1808,  but  did  not  come  to  Andover  to  begin  his  duties  until 
the  next  year.  For  a  time  it  was  uncertain  whether  he  would 
accept.  The  salary  offered  was  not  attractive,  and  he  enjoyed 
his  ministry  in  Newark.  He  liked  the  inspiration  of  large 
audiences,  and  Andover  did  not  give  much  scope  for  show- 
ing his  possession  of  the  eloquence  which  he  was  expected 
to  teach.  He  wrote  to  Woods  that,  while  the  quiet  atmosphere 
of  the  New  England  village  might  suit  the  other  professors, 
for  him  "it  would  want  those  excitements  which  would  be 
essential  to  the  professor  of  pulpit  eloquence." 

At  the  same  time  that  Griffin  was  being  sought  for  the 
Seminary,  Park  Street  Church  in  Boston  looked  in  his  direc- 
tion. The  church  on  Brimstone  Corner  was  just  being  launched 
as  a  defence  of  orthodoxy  in  a  town  where  all  but  one  among 
the  old  Congregational  churches  had  become  Unitarian,  and 


it  needed  a  brilliant  preacher  to  give  it  standing  in  the  com- 
munity. The  Newark  minister  believed  that  he  could  com- 
bine his  teaching  at  Andover  with  his  preaching  in  Boston, 
and  so  overcame  his  reluctance  for  the  professorship  alone. 
He  was  worth  having  for  Andover  on  any  terms,  and  Bartlet 
recognized  that  fact  by  building  him  the  best  professor's  house 
in  the  village.  His  people  ''wept  a  week,"  so  Griffin  wrote  to 
Woods  when  he  left  Newark,  but  he  admitted  that  there  were 
some  sons  of  Belial  among  them  whose  malice  was  ''scarcely 
exceeded  by  that  of  the  lower  world." 

The  new  professor  was  inaugurated  with  much  ceremony 
on  the  twenty-first  of  June,  1809.  Dr.  Spring  preached  a  ser- 
mon, and  Dr.  Griffin  dehvered  his  inaugural  address.  After 
the  services  were  concluded,  "the  Trustees,  Visitors,  pro- 
fessors, clergy,  musicians,  and  gentlemen  in  public  office,  pre- 
ceded by  the  students  of  the  Theological  Institution,  walked 
in  procession  from  the  church  to  the  hall  of  the  Academy, 
where  with  social  and  cheerful  feelings,  they  partook  of  the 
bounties  of  Providence." 

It  was  the  duty  of  the  Department  of  Public  Eloquence  to 
see  that  the  students  were  instructed  adequately  on  the  im- 
portance of  oratory ;  on  elegance,  composition,  and  dignity  of 
style ;  on  pronunciation,  voice,  and  gesture,  but  withal  a  preser- 
vation of  a  natural  manner.  Yet  it  was  regarded  as  highly 
important  that  a  speaker  should  be  a  finished  pulpit  orator. 
Methods  of  putting  together  a  sermon,  of  the  style  and  char- 
acter of  the  discourses  of  the  most  eminent  divines  which  were 
used  as  models,  and  of  strengthening  the  memory,  were  taught 
faithfully.  Above  all,  the  student  must  be  impressed  with  "the 
transcendent  simplicity  and  beauty  of  the  Sacred  Writings." 

Griffin's  reputation  as  an  orator  seems  not  to  have  been 
exaggerated.  Dr.  Spring  felt  his  competition  and  the  spell  of 
his  superb  presence,  for  Dr.  Griffin  stood  six  feet  three  inches 
tall.  Spring  wrote  to  Dr.  Morse  of  Charlestown  :  "Alas !  Alas ! 
what  a  mammoth  of  an  orator  we  had  along.  ...  I  have  had 
thoughts  of  holding  my  own  in  the  pulpit,  but  if  we  do  not 
confine  the  monster  within  the  four  walls  of  the  institution, 
all  will  be  up  with  poor  me.  ...  I  can  bear  tolerably  well  to 


be  equalled  when  I  feel  good ;  but  to  be  so  astonishingly  out- 
done— it  is  too  much  for  flesh  and  blood  and  my  common 
share  of  humility.  What  say  you,  sir,  must  we  not  slip  our 
cables  and  get  out  of  the  harbor  as  soon  as  we  can?"  Daniel 
Webster,  who  went  to  hear  the  distinguished  preacher,  said : 
"If  you  are  going  the  same  way  with  the  lightning,  it  won't 
hurt  you ;  but  if  not,  you  had  better  keep  out  of  its  way." 

William  Bartlet  was  not  in  sympathy  with  the  Park  Street 
arrangement,  and  tried  to  make  Dr.  Griffin  contented  at  An- 
dover.  Griflin  tried  to  fulfil  the  obligations  of  both  of  his 
positions,  and  he  showed  unusual  adaptability  as  a  professor. 
In  his  class,  as  he  was  about  to  criticise  a  student  sermon,  he 
would  remark  in  kindly  fashion :  "  Young  gentlemen,  we  have 
met  to  criticise  a  sermon,  and  all  feelings  are  to  be  laid  aside 
at  the  seeming  severity  of  remarks  which  may  follow."  Then, 
says  the  chronicler,  ''the  poor  sermon  shrivelled  up  .  .  .  until 
its  parched  remains  rustled  away  upon  the  adverse  gale,  and 
men  saw  them  no  more."  The  commuting  distance  to  Boston 
proved  too  great  in  the  days  of  stagecoaches  and  horse-drawn 
chaises,  and  Griffin  reached  the  conclusion  that  Boston  had 
the  more  attractive  claim.  In  1811,  therefore,  he  ended  his 
brief  professional  career  at  Andover,  and  it  was  necessary  to 
look  for  another  instructor. 

Dr.  Griffin  did  not  continue  to  find  full  satisfaction  in 
Boston.  His  theological  outlook  as  a  conservative  Presby- 
terian did  not  fully  harmonize  with  Boston  orthodoxy,  and 
the  Second  Presbyterian  Church  in  Newark  was  wooing  him 
back  to  that  city.  In  18 15  he  preached  his  last  sermon  at  Park 
Street  from  the  text:  "The  return  of  the  dove  to  the  ark, 
having  no  rest  elsewhere."  Even  then  he  did  not  remain  fixed, 
for  Williams  College  called  him  to  its  presidency  after  six 
years,  and  there  he  remained  until  a  few  months  before  his 
death  in  1837. 

Before  Dr.  Griffin  had  severed  his  connections  with  the 
Seminary,  a  fourth  professor  was  in  the  offing.  A  successor 
to  Dr.  Pearson  was  needed.  For  that  purpose  Dr.  Spring 
visited  New  Haven  and  listened  to  the  preaching  of  Moses 
Stuart,  pastor  since  1806  of  the  First  Church  in  that  city.   At 

i53Y 


the  age  of  thirty  he  was  esteemed  highly  in  Connecticut.  He 
had  been  born  in  1780,  had  been  educated  at  Yale,  and  after 
three  years  in  the  study  of  law  had  been  admitted  to  the  bar. 
But  his  purpose  changed,  and  after  a  period  of  theological 
study  with  President  D wight  he  was  ordained  in  1806  and  be- 
came pastor  of  the  First  Church  in  New  Haven.  When  Dr. 
Spring  inquired  tentatively  as  to  Stuart's  abilities,  Dwight 
replied  that  he  was  a  very  able  man,  but  he  could  not  be  spared. 
Spring  replied  at  once  that  that  was  the  kind  of  a  man  that 
Andover  wanted. 

Stuart  came  to  Andover  to  lecture  on  the  form,  the  preser- 
vation and  the  transmission  of  the  Bible ;  on  the  original  lan- 
guages, including  the  Septuagint  version;  on  the  history, 
character,  and  authority  of  other  versions  and  manuscripts; 
on  the  authenticity  of  Scripture ;  on  the  Apocrypha ;  on  mod- 
ern translations ;  on  the  canons  of  biblical  criticism ;  and  on 
the  various  readings  and  difficult  passages  in  the  Bible. 

It  seems  odd  that  a  man  should  have  been  selected  for  the 
chair  of  sacred  literature  who  knew  neither  Hebrew  nor  Ger- 
man. Yet  Stuart  soon  showed  ability  to  make  good  his  de- 
ficiencies and  to  prove  himself  a  fortunate  addition  to  the 
Faculty.  At  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  Seminary,  Leonard 
Bacon  said  of  Stuart :  "  It  was  his  teaching  and  his  influence 
that  gave  celebrity  to  Andover  as  a  seat  of  sacred  learning." 
It  was  because  of  this  that  he  became  recognized  as  the  prince 
of  biblical  learning  in  America.  It  was  he  who  set  the  stan- 
dards and  fixed  the  methods  of  biblical  study  for  the  next 
generation,  for  he  remained  at  his  post  in  Andover  for  thirty- 
eight  years  until  1848.  Men  who  sat  at  his  feet  went  to  imitate 
him  in  their  teaching  at  other  seminaries,  not  only  in  the  Bible, 
but  in  the  classics  as  well,  for  his  sound  philological  methods 
gained  general  approval.  Elijah  Kellogg  was  professor  of 
Greek  at  Williams  for  nearly  thirty  years,  Nathan  W.  Fiske 
filled  a  similar  chair  at  Amherst,  as  did  James  Torrey  at  the 
University  of  Vermont,  and  Samuel  P.  Newman  at  Bowdoin. 
Irah  Chase  graduated  from  Andover  in  18 17,  and  went  to 
Columbian  College  at  Washington,  D.  C,  to  be  professor  of 
biblical  literature  for  seven  years,  and  then  helped  to  found 


the  Newton  Theological  Institution  and  was  its  first  profes- 
sor of  biblical  literature.  Newton  went  to  Andover  again  for 
her  second  professor,  Henry  J.  Ripley,  of  the  class  of  1819. 
The  imprint  of  Stuart's  mind  was  felt  still  farther  afield,  for 
Miron  Winslow,  class  of  181 8,  translated  the  Bible  into  the 
Tamil  tongue  of  India  and  compiled  a  Tamil-English  lexicon, 
and  Samuel  A.  Worcester,  class  of  1823,  translated  parts  of 
the  Bible  into  the  language  of  the  Cherokees  in  America,  set- 
ting an  example  to  other  missionaries. 

Dr.  Stuart  had  the  diligence  and  patience  to  become  a 
master  of  Hebrew,  and  a  commentator  who  was  regarded  by 
a  large  circle  of  ministers  as  an  authoritative  interpreter.  He 
was  exact  and  thorough  as  a  scholar,  patient  and  enthusiastic 
as  a  teacher,  believing  uncompromisingly  in  the  Scripture 
as  the  divine  Word.  He  was  eager  to  meet  the  controver- 
siaHst,  vigorously  defending  his  own  positions,  but  he  was 
open-minded.  He  improved  every  opportunity  to  gain  famil- 
iarity with  German  thought  and  language,  even  on  his  jour- 
neys, and  he  became  acquainted  with  German  scholarship  as 
few  men  of  his  time  could  boast.  He  introduced  his  students 
to  modern  critical  literature  in  German,  to  the  alarm  of-  cer- 
tain conservative  brethren,  but  he  was  admired  and  trusted 
by  his  pupils,  and  he  was  popular  because  of  his  earnestness 
and  his  pleasantries  in  the  classroom.  He  was  a  doughty  op- 
ponent in  debate  with  the  Unitarians.  He  wrote  letters  to 
William  Ellery  Channing,  which,  when  published,  made  plain 
his  orthodox  position,  and  relieved  the  concern  of  those  who 
feared  his  liking  for  German  Hterature.  He  issued  an  exhaus- 
tive statement  on  the  Trinity  which  seemed  to  his  friends  to 
answer  satisfactorily  the  criticisms  of  Channing. 

Allen  W.  Dodge,  a  pupil  of  Stuart,  testified  to  his  teaching 
power.  Stuart  would  say  to  his  students:  "Don't  be  dis- 
couraged, young  men,  don't  get  mired  in  the  Slough  of  De- 
spond." He  made  interesting  the  monotonous  task  of  teaching 
the  Hebrew  grammar,  and  ''the  Bible,  under  his  keen  and  in- 
spiring investigations,  seemed  to  glow  with  new  light  and 
beauty." 

Stuart's  diligence  and  intrepidity  were  the  more  remarkable 

issy 


because  he  suffered  much  from  ill  health.  Indigestion  and 
sleeplessness  bothered  him,  but  he  studied  his  own  deficiencies, 
and  he  did  not  hesitate  to  pass  on  his  conclusions  to  the  stu- 
dents. He  lectured  to  them  at  the  beginning  of  the  school  year, 
telling  them  to  go  to  bed  at  ten  o'clock  and  rise  at  five,  and 
prescribing  their  diet,  exercise,  and  study,  advising  them  to 
make  notes  of  their  food  and  its  effects,  and  so  by  experiment 
to  learn  what  to  eat.  When  he  was  ill  with  typhoid  fever  and 
a  student  was  watching  with  him  at  night,  the  professor  had 
him  read  aloud  a  monograph  on  the  disease,  and  he  was  espe- 
cially interested  in  the  novel  idea  that  the  patient  might  have 
all  the  cold  drinks  he  desired.  He  had  his  own  notions  of 
hygiene.  He  would  come  into  a  stuffy  classroom  warmed  by 
a  stove,  and  throw  cold  water  on  the  stove  until  the  room  was 
filled  with  steam,  on  the  theory  that  the  moisture  would  carry 
off  the  superfluous  heat  through  the  walls. 

Andover  was  a  rural  town,  and  in  those  days  it  was  not 
above  a  professor's  dignity  to  hoe  his  garden,  milk  his  cow, 
and  cut  his  own  hay.  More  than  one  of  the  professors  was 
glad  to  use  student  assistance  at  haying  time.  Francis  Way- 
land,  later  the  well-known  president  of  Brown  University, 
related  how  one  day  Stuart  closed  his  class  early  with  an  in- 
vitation to  the  students  to  join  him  in  the  hayfield.  They 
turned  out  generously  to  his  aid.  The  crop  was  poor,  and  as 
Wayland  was  raking  beside  the  professor,  Stuart  berated  the 
soil,  which  in  spite  of  his  best  efforts  yielded  only  mediocre 
crops.  "Bah!"  said  he,  "was  there  ever  climate  and  soil  like 
this?  ...  If  you  plant  early,  everything  is  liable  to  be  cut  oft" 
by  the  late  frosts  of  spring.  If  you  plant  late,  your  crop  is 
destroyed  by  the  early  frosts  of  autumn.  If  you  escape  these, 
the  burning  sun  of  summer  scorches  your  crop,  and  it  perishes 
by  heat  and  drought.  If  none  of  these  evils  overtake  you, 
clouds  of  insects  eat  up  your  crop,  and  what  the  caterpillar 
leaves  the  canker-worm  destroys."  Said  Wayland:  "Spoken 
in  his  deliberate  and  solemn  utterance,  I  could  compare  it  to 
nothing  but  the  maledictions  of  one  of  the  old  prophets." 

Moses  Stuart  never  relaxed  in  his  earnest  search  for  truth. 
He  was  honored  for  his  scholarship  abroad  as  well  as  at  home, 

isey 


yet  he  took  time  for  the  students.  For  years  he  divided  the 
responsibihties  of  the  Wednesday  evening  conference  with 
Dr.  Woods.  He  was  the  inspiration  of  nearly  forty  classes 
of  students.  Year  after  year  he  walked  back  and  forth  between 
his  home  on  Main  Street  and  the  buildings  of  the  Seminary, 
alone  with  his  thoughts,  yet,  so  writes  his  daughter  in  "Old 
Andover  Days,"  ''in  the  silence  and  solitude  through  which  he 
walked  hearing  and  recognizing  the  song  of  every  bird  that 
carolled  on  the  trees,  noting  the  changes  in  the  elms  which  he 
had  loved  ever  since  he  had  seen  the  tiny  twig  planted  in  the 
rough,  new  ground ;  watching  through  the  brief  summer  days 
for  the  flowers  that  sometimes  dotted  his  path;  overlooking 
no  slightest  thing  in  earth  or  sky  that  God  has  given."  He 
lived  until  1852. 

One  other  name  belongs  in  the  roster  of  the  early  professors. 
This  was  Ebenezer  Porter.  A  graduate  of  Dartmouth  in  1792, 
he  studied  divinity  with  Dr.  John  Smalley  of  Berlin,  Connecti- 
cut. He  had  been  minister  of  the  Congregational  church  in 
Washington,  Connecticut,  for  five  years,  when  he  was  selected 
by  the  Board  of  Trustees  to  succeed  Dr.  Griffin  as  professor 
of  sacred  rhetoric.  He  was  inaugurated  in  1812.  He  had  a 
charming  personality  attractive  to  students.  He  was  kindly, 
even  in  his  class  criticisms,  of  their  crude  homiletical  achieve- 
ments. Slight  in  frame,  he  lacked  the  physique  and  vigor  of 
Griffin,  and  his  health  was  never  robust.  For  that  reason  the 
students  cheerfully  shoveled  snow  paths  for  him  in  winter, 
and  mowed  his  hay  in  summer.  In  his  study  he  was  method- 
ical, and  so  diligent  as  to  injure  his  health.  He  wrote  with 
careful  choice  of  language,  and  in  his  lectures  he  guarded 
against  emphasizing  doctrine  or  even  biblical  lore  above  the 
value  of  a  living  faith.  He  was  punctilious  in  his  observance 
of  the  rules  of  gentlemanly  conduct,  and  he  insisted  on  such 
observance  from  his  students  when  they  met  in  official  rela- 
tions. He  even  gave  instructions  to  the  members  of  each  junior 
class  how  they  should  enter  his  study.  Dr.  Porter  declined 
an  invitation  to  the  presidency  of  the  University  of  Vermont 
three  years  after  he  had  come  to  Andover,  and  the  next  year 
he  refused  a  similar  offer  from  the  University  of  Georgia.  The 


following  year  he  was  elected  professor  of  divinity  at  Yale, 
and  later  Hamilton,  Middlebury,  and  Dartmouth  all  sought 
him  for  the  presidency.  Perhaps  these  successive  calls  decided 
the  Trustees  to  create  the  office  of  president  of  the  Seminary, 
and  to  elect  Dr.  Porter  to  fill  the  position  in  1827.  Four  years 
later  he  resigned  his  professorship,  but  retained  the  presi- 
dency until  his  death  in  1834.  The  inscription  on  his  monu- 
ment in  Chapel  Cemetery  concludes  a  description  of  his  vir- 
tues with  the  words:  "Living  he  was  peculiarly  loved  and 
revered ;  Dying,  he  was  universally  lamented." 

The  duties  of  the  professors  started  early  in  the  day.  Morn- 
ing chapel  service  was  fixed  by  the  Trustees  at  seven  o'clock  for 
the  beginning  of  the  winter  term,  with  a  change  of  fifteen  min- 
utes every  two  weeks  as  the  sun  rose  earlier,  until  by  the  first  of 
March  the  hour  was  to  be  at  six  o'clock.  The  members  of  the 
Faculty  found  compulsory  attendance  as  early  in  the  day  as 
that  to  be  irksome,  especially  those  who  did  not  enjoy  good 
health.  Dr.  Spring  must  have  known  the  failings  of  the 
original  professors,  because  when  he  tried  to  raise  five  hun- 
dred dollars  for  a  chapel  bell,  and  negotiated  with  Paul  Revere 
for  it,  he  remarked  humorously  that  the  bell  would  wake  up 
*' sleepy,  lazy  professors,  who  love  a  morning  bed."  As  early 
as  181 1  they  claimed  the  right  of  infrequent  attendance  upon 
morning  prayers,  saying:  "We  have  habitually  attended  the 
evening  devotions  of  our  Seminary  in  the  chapel,  but  have 
not  found  it  practicable,  connected  as  we  are  with  families,  to 
attend  in  the  morning  without  neglecting  our  own  households." 

One  lecture  was  delivered  daily  to  each  class.  The  morning 
lectures  came  at  ten  o'clock,  the  afternoon  lectures  at  half- 
past  three.  There  were  no  lectures  Monday  forenoon  or  Sat- 
urday afternoon.  By  1825  the  Faculty  asked  the  Trustees  to 
be  relieved  from  the  responsibility  of  constant  attendance,  and 
a  special  committee  of  the  Trustees  was  appointed  on  the 
matter.  The  committee  presently  reported  that  the  statutes 
and  laws  of  the  school  required  the  professors  to  attend  both 
morning  and  evening  chapel,  and  in  their  opinion  no  other  duty 
in  the  Seminary  ought  to  have  precedence  over  the  chapel  serv- 
ices.  If  a  professor  on  account  of  bodily  indisposition  should 


find  it  ordinarily  impossible  to  attend,  he  should  ask  the  Trus- 
tees to  be  excused  by  special  vote  during  the  indisposition.  An- 
other committee's  report  on  the  same  subject  was  accepted,  to 
the  effect  that  it  was  not  the  imperative  duty  of  all  the  pro- 
fessors to  attend  morning  and  evening  prayers  simultaneously, 
but  "to  increase  the  reverence  due  to  rehgious  institutions 
as  well  as  to  give  weight  to  public  instruction  it  is  expected 
that  all  the  professors  frequent  the  chapel  at  morning  and 
evening  prayers."  Professors  Woods,  Stuart,  and  Porter  filed 
requests  to  be  excused  in  spite  of  these  injunctions,  but  while 
the  Trustees  did  not  refuse  they  emphasized  again  the  impor- 
tance of  attending  morning  as  well  as  evening  prayers,  and 
"expected  that  the  professors  will  attend  morning  and  evening 
prayers  whenever  the  providence  of  God  shall  permit."  as  if 
this  did  not  put  a  good  deal  of  responsibility  on  divine  provi- 
dence. 

The  professors  were  scrupulous  in  meeting  their  class 
obligations,  which  were  not  heavy.  The  methods  of  class  in- 
struction were  conservative.  The  professor  depended  on  his 
lecture  to  inform  the  student  and  to  stimulate  his  thought. 
There  was  freedom  of  discussion  and  opportunity  for  the 
student  to  read  various  opinions  in  the  library,  but  the  pro- 
fessor's own  system  of  thought  or  teaching  was  supposed  to 
be  superior  to  others.  It  remained  an  accepted  principle  of  the 
Seminary  instruction  that  the  main  consideration  of  the  first 
year  should  be  the  study  of  biblical  languages  and  literature, 
that  the  second  year  should  be  devoted  almost  entirely  to 
theolog}%  and  that  the  third  year  should  provide  training  in 
homiletics.  This  arrangement  gave  to  each  professor  an  op- 
portunity to  monopolize  the  attention  of  the  student  during 
his  allotted  time.  During  the  reign  of  the  triumvirate,  W^oods, 
Stuart,  and  Porter,  this  general  scheme  was  modified  slightly, 
but  as  late  as  1839  the  curriculum  of  the  Junior  class  was: 
Stuart's  Hebrew  Grammar  ;  Chrestomathy  ;  written  exercises, 
including  translations  from  English  into  Hebrew ;  study  of 
the  Hebrew  Bible ;  the  principles  of  Hermeneutics ;  New 
Testament  Greek  and  exegesis  of  the  Four  Gospels ;  lectures 
preparatory  to  the  study  of  theology ;  natural  theology ;  evi- 

i59y 


dences  of  Revelation ;  inspiration  of  the  Scriptures ;  Hebrew 
exegesis ;  Greek ;  Pauline  epistles  twice  a  week ;  criticism  and 
exegetical  compositions. 

The  Middle  class  met  five  days  a  week  for  instruction  in 
Christian  theology.  Compositions  on  the  principal  topics  of 
theology  were  examined  in  private.  Exegesis  of  the  New 
Testament  was  continued  once  a  week,  to  keep  the  student  in 
training,  and  there  was  instruction  on  special  topics  in  sacred 
literature.  It  was  natural  enough  that  so  much  attention  should 
be  given  to  theology.  The  Congregational  and  Presbyterian 
churches  were  indoctrinated  in  Calvinism  to  such  a  degree 
that  a  minister  needed  to  be  a  master.  He  was  expected  to 
preach  doctrinal  sermons,  and  he  must  be  ready  to  defend 
the  faith  against  all  comers.  Always  there  was  danger  that 
the  emphasis  upon  sound  doctrine  in  the  Seminary  should 
divert  chief  attention  from  religion  itself  to  the  science  of 
religion.  This  was  counteracted  by  the  religious  influence  of 
the  professors  and  particularly  by  the  Wednesday  evening 
conferences,  by  Sunday  worship,  and  by  the  mutual  fellow- 
ship of  the  students. 

The  Senior  class  had  as  the  major  part  of  the  curriculum 
lectures  on  the  philosophy  of  rhetoric,  sermons,  and  the  prepa- 
ration of  their  own,  with  criticism  from  the  professor  of 
sacred  rhetoric  both  in  public  and  in  private.  But  lectures  on 
the  history  of  Christian  doctrine  kept  up  the  study  of  theology, 
and  critical  and  exegetical  lectures  on  the  Hebrew  and  Greek 
Testaments  still  had  a  place.  For  all  classes  there  was  public 
declamation  once  a  week,  and  private  lessons  in  elocution. 
Lectures  on  the  Apocalypse  were  given  every  three  years,  that 
each  generation  of  Seminary  students  might  know  how  to 
interpret  that  puzzling  Scripture. 

The  climax  of  the  scholastic  year  came  at  the  Anniversaries, 
when  every  class  was  examined  publicly  before  the  assembled 
Trustees,  Visitors,  and  the  public,  both  lay  and  clerical,  who 
packed  the  available  space  in  Bartlet  Chapel.  Many  persons 
stood  throughout  the  exercises ;  some  could  not  get  into  the 
chapel  at  all.  The  crowds  were  so  large  that  the  sheriff  and 
the  constable  were  requested  to  aid  in  preserving  order.   The 

i6oy 


Junior  class  was  examined  in  Hebrew  and  Old  Testament 
and  New  Testament  Criticism,  the  Middle  class  exhibited 
essays  on  theological  subjects,  the  Seniors  exhibited  similar 
essays  and  were  examined  in  sacred  rhetoric.  The  examina- 
tions were  thorough.  Professor  Park's  examination  in  the- 
ology is  known  to  have  lasted  all  day.  But  they  did  not  include 
all  the  subjects  that  had  been  discussed  during  the  year.  A 
student  had  a  chance  to  distinguish  himself  before  an  appre- 
ciative audience,  or  he  might  get  a  reputation  that  injured 
him  for  years  to  come.  The  exercises  closed  with  an  address 
from  a  member  of  the  Senior  class.  The  written  papers  that 
were  submitted  were  considered  worth  preserving  in  the 
Library. 


ieiy 


CHAPTER    IV 

THE  MIDDLE  DECADES 

A  FTER  1830  New  England  was  feeling  the  ground- 
/A  swell  of  a  movement  that  was  making  inroads  into  the 
JL  jL  conservative  traditions  of  Puritan  days.  Changes  were 
coming  politically,  socially,  economically,  and  religiously. 

With  the  election  of  Andrew  Jackson  as  President  the  com- 
mon folk  came  to  a  realization  of  their  power.  Theoretical 
democracy  became  actual  democracy.  Federalist  traditions 
had  lingered  longest  in  New  England.  Until  1833  Congre- 
gationalism maintained  a  place  of  privilege,  but  though 
social  prestige  remained,  equality  of  all  denominations  before 
the  law  was  realized  in  that  year.  The  industrial  revolution 
had  gripped  the  rising  cities  of  the  lower  Merrimac  valley. 
Though  the  south  village  of  Andover  remained  unchanged, 
the  industries  of  North  Andover  and  the  mills  of  Lawrence 
were  so  near  that  her  citizens  could  not  remain  oblivious  to 
the  changes  that  were  taking  place.  With  a  rapidly  increasing 
population,  New  England  was  sending  her  sons  to  the  West 
to  be  pioneers  like  their  colonial  ancestors,  and  home  mission 
societies  were  organizing  to  take  care  of  their  religious  needs. 
The  application  of  steam  to  railway  and  river  travel  facili- 
tated the  movement  of  the  population,  and  people  became  less 
provincial  as  their  contacts  widened. 

New  England  retained  the  intellectual  leadership  of  the 
country,  and  deemed  it  a  privilege  to  teach  manners  and 
morals,  politics  and  religion,  to  the  less  favored.  This  attitude 
of  superiority  was  resented  at  times,  but  the  general  accep- 
tance of  New  England's  intellectual  precedence  gave  her 
schools  a  prestige  that  was  greatly  to  their  advantage.  Har- 
vard attracted  students  from  everywhere ;  Phillips  Academy 
had  achieved  a  reputation  as  a  preparatory  school ;  Andover 


Seminary  enjoyed  a  growing  popularity  and  received  an  in- 
creasing number  of  students  from  the  South  and  the  Middle 
West.  Before  1840  the  school  reached  its  maximum  of  at- 
tendance, one  hundred  and  sixty-four. 

Imagine  Bartlet  Chapel  in  Andover  on  a  Sunday  morning 
about  1830.  Over  the  community  brooded  the  quiet  that  was 
characteristic  of  the  Puritan  Sabbath,  but  a  specially  solemn 
hush  rested  upon  the  Hill.  In  the  homes  of  the  faithful  the 
preparation  began  the  evening  before,  even  the  morning  be- 
fore, when  the  school  lessons  of  the  professors'  children  were 
taken  from  the  Bible  and  the  Westminster  Catechism,  and 
hymns  were  taught  and  sung.  The  teacher  then  prayed  until 
the  stroke  of  twelve.  Respite  until  sunset  and  to  bed  by  nine 
o'clock.  Nine  o'clock  on  Sunday  morning  saw  the  children 
on  their  way  across  the  Common  to  Sunday  School  in  the 
schoolhouse,  where  students  served  an  apprenticeship  as 
teachers.  At  the  tolling  of  the  bell  for  morning  worship  the 
children  were  marched  back  of  the  Seminary  to  the  chapel, 
following  the  superintendent  and  accompanied  by  the  teachers, 
while  their  elders  were  making  their  way  to  the  same  goal. 

All  moved  reverently  as  they  entered  the  building  and  took 
their  places.  In  the  summer  soft  breezes  were  wafted  through 
the  open  windows,  but  in  the  winter  the  room  was  chilly.  It 
was  heated  by  a  single  wood  stove,  which  the  sexton  stoked 
frequently  from  the  woodbox  which  was  on  the  other  side 
of  the  pulpit.  The  heat  radiated  from  the  long  pipes  which 
ran  around  the  chapel.  The  bare  blue  walls  and  yellowish  gal- 
leries did  not  give  one  the  impression  of  the  beauty  of  holiness. 
The  stovepipes  and  the  wood  crackling  in  the  stove  were  sug- 
gestive of  unpleasant  thoughts  to  sensitive  souls  which  were 
conscious  of  faults  that  deserved  eternal  punishment,  unless 
the  divine  mercy  assured  one  a  place  among  the  elect.  Bare 
floors  matched  the  bare  walls.  Yellow  pews  added  nothing 
attractive  to  the  ensemble. 

One  can  picture  to  himself  the  appearance  of  some  of  the 
professors'  pews.  The  front  pew  in  Professors'  Row  was  occu- 
pied by  Dr.  Porter.  He  is  described  as  a  tall,  slight  man — it 
used  to  be  said  that  no  man  less  than  six  feet  tall  could  expect 

i63y 


appointment  to  the  Andover  Faculty — dignified,  yet  kindly, 
with  a  large  head  covered  with  stiff  gray  hair,  and  with  a  pale 
face.  He  was  distinguished  by  a  yellow  bandana  handkerchief 
which  he  wore  around  his  neck.  He  was  not  physically  strong 
and  had  to  husband  his  strength,  but  when  possible  he  and  his 
fragile  wife  were  in  their  places  on  Sunday.  Next  was  the 
pew  of  Professor  Woods.  He  had  the  reputation  of  being  the 
best-looking  man  on  the  Faculty.  Tall  and  inclining  to  stout- 
ness, with  high  forehead  and  rather  delicate  features  and 
blue  eyes,  his  whole  presence  breathed  distinction  whether  he 
stood  or  sat.  The  children  rather  feared  him  because  he  was 
called  "Old  School,"  though  they  did  not  understand  what  it 
meant.  In  his  relations  to  the  students  he  was  kind  and  gen- 
erous, in  his  family  a  model  husband  to  an  invalid  wife ;  he 
was  considerate  even  towards  the  Unitarians,  with  whom 
he  was  brought  into  controversy.  Because  of  these  qualities 
he  was  respected  and  admired  through  the  long  years  of  his 
active  service  in  the  Seminary. 

Professor  Stuart  occupied  the  third  pew.  His  daughter, 
writing  of  him  as  he  appeared  in  the  chapel,  says  :  "Four-fifths 
of  the  year  he  carried  his  long  blue  cloak  on  his  arm  to  church. 
Spreading  it  carefully  over  the  back  of  the  pew,  and  sitting 
on  it,  he  was  a  most  attentive  but  at  the  same  time  a  most 
restless  listener.  To  keep  still  seemed  to  be  a  physical  impos- 
sibility for  him.  If  the  sermon  was  poor  his  impatience  showed 
itself  in  shrugs,  in  opening  and  shutting  his  large  white  hands, 
in  moving  in  his  seat,  and  in  a  lengthened  face  pitiable  to  see. 
If  it  was  good,  no  one  doubted  his  appreciation,  or  the  social 
feeling  which  made  him  wish  to  share  his  enjoyment.  At  the 
utterance  of  any  especially  pertinent  remark,  he  would  often 
rise  in  his  seat,  and  turning  round  upon  the  young  men,  his 
students,  draw  his  red  silk  handkerchief  across  his  mouth 
several  times,  expressing  in  every  feature  the  keenness  of 
his  pleasure.  If  he  differed  theologically  from  the  sentiments 
uttered,  no  words  could  have  expressed  his  dissent  more 
strongly  than  did  his  looks  and  gestures." 

One  can  imagine  the  preacher  flanked  by  such  appreciative 
or  critical  hearers  on  one  side,  and  on  the  other  by  John  Adams, 

i64y 


principal  of  the  Academy,  and  such  substantial  citizens  as 
Samuel  Farrar,  and  wonder  if  he  did  not  feel  trepidation  as 
he  faced  his  audience,  even  though  his  discourse  had  been 
carefully  prepared  and  written.  It  is  unnecessary  to  remark 
that  students  and  Faculty  children  were  respectful  in  their 
attitude,  and  dutifully  and  silently  wended  their  way  out  of 
the  sacred  precincts  at  the  close  of  worship.  It  was  the  custom 
for  the  occupants  of  each  pew  to  wait  their  turn,  as  the  con- 
gregation retired,  beginning  with  the  students  nearest  the  door. 

During  vacation  at  the  Seminary  the  families  of  the  Faculty 
attended  the  village  church.  The  children  found  the  change 
a  welcome  novelty.  Sitting  in  the  gallery,  they  could  nod 
recognition  or  send  a  voiceless  message  to  a  friend  across  the 
meetinghouse.  One  service  was  not  deemed  respectful  enough 
to  the  Almighty  or  sufficient  for  the  needs  of  the  soul.  After 
a  two-hour  intermission,  **with  a  cold  dinner  and  a  pious 
book"  at  the  noon-house,  they  gathered  again  for  afternoon 
worship. 

Although  the  Seminary  and  Academy  were  a  part  of  the 
South  Parish,  and  the  meetinghouse  was  used  by  them  on 
special  occasions,  the  educational  institutions  were  a  unit  in 
themselves,  and  it  seemed  wise  to  the  Trustees  as  early  as  1815 
to  form  a  separate  church  organization  with  Sunday  worship 
in  Bartlet  Chapel  on  the  Hill.  The  church  was  to  be  under  the 
direction  of  the  Trustees,  and  the  professors  of  the  Seminary 
were  ''colleague  pastors"  of  the  church  without  salary.  The 
faculties  of  both  schools  and  their  families,  together  with  the 
student  bodies,  made  up  the  regular  constituency  of  the  church. 
Students  might  transfer  membership  to  the  Seminary  church 
from  their  home  churches.  A  number  of  the  residents  in  the 
vicinity  liked  to  attend  the  services  of  worship  and  were  ad- 
mitted to  ''occasional  communion,"  as  "under  the  watch  of 
the  church."  All  persons  who  became  members  of  the  church 
subscribed  to  the  confession  of  faith  and  covenant  which  had 
been  adopted.  The  confession  was  not  so  rigid  a  document 
as  the  Creed  of  the  Seminary.  The  first  to  sign  the  confession 
and  the  covenant  were  the  three  members  of  the  Faculty, 
Professors  Porter,  Woods,  and  Stuart.  Samuel  Farrar  was 
one  of  the  first  deacons.  4  6S  1- 


At  the  outset  the  church  was  grounded  on  the  Cambridge 
Platform,  '*in  matter,  form  and  discipline,"  and  elders  as  well 
as  deacons  were  chosen  to  perform  the  duties  as  described 
in  that  Platform.  The  Congregational  churches  of  Massa- 
chusetts, however,  had  moved  away  from  that  semi-presby- 
terian  arrangement,  and  it  was  not  likely  to  survive  at  An- 
dover.  A  disturbance  arose  in  1832  when  a  student  with  a 
sensitive  conscience  expressed  dissatisfaction  with  the  exist- 
ing order.  He  affirmed  that  the  polity  of  the  church  was  not 
strictly  congregational,  and  insisted  on  withdrawing  from 
membership.  The  church  resented  his  attitude,  but  as  he 
severed  his  connection  there  was  nothing  to  do.  Twenty-seven 
years  later  the  church  was  reorganized  on  a  more  congrega- 
tional basis.  Since  the  original  church  never  had  been  consti- 
tuted by  act  of  a  council  of  neighboring  Congregational 
churches,  it  was  free  to  dissolve  and  reconstitute  itself  by 
transferring  its  members  to  the  new  organization.  The 
Faculty  of  the  Seminary  was  authorized  to  give  letters  of 
dismissal.  It  is  rather  surprising  that  a  training  school  for  the 
Congregational  ministry  should  have  been  so  irregular  in  its 
organization,  but  it  is  to  be  remembered  that  Presbyterian 
students  as  well  as  Congregational  were  in  attendance,  and 
that  when  Congregationalists  went  outside  New  England 
they  usually  joined  Presbyterian  churches. 

When  the  Seminary  church  was  organized  it  found  accom- 
modations for  worship  in  the  original  chapel  in  Phillips  Hall. 
After  the  erection  of  Bartlet  Chapel  the  Sunday  exercises 
naturally  were  transferred  to  the  new  quarters.  There  they 
remained  until  the  new  chapel  was  built  in  1875.  That  build- 
ing, erected  by  general  subscription,  and  costing  fifty  thou- 
sand dollars,  was  dedicated  ''for  the  Sunday  worship  of  the 
chapel,  church,  and  congregation." 

The  great  occasion  of  the  Seminary  year  was  Commence- 
ment. Coming  later  in  the  summer  than  now,  it  was  no  less 
the  culmination  of  the  school  year.  With  fewer  occasions  to 
command  popular  interest  than  at  the  present  time,  and  with 
full  appreciation  of  the  splendor  and  dignity  of  Commence- 
ment Week  at  Harvard,  the  people  of  Andover  and  the  con- 


stituency  of  the  school  made  elaborate  plans  and  looked 
forward  with  eager  anticipation  to  the  Day  of  days.  As  if 
Thanksgiving  were  approaching  for  the  farmer's  wife,  a  bustle 
of  preparation  permeated  the  homes  of  those  who  expected 
to  keep  open  house.  The  country  was  scoured  for  provisions, 
and  additional  help  was  arranged  for  with  those  convenient 
persons  who  were  willing  to  accommodate.  Gardens  were 
groomed  and  lawns  were  trimmed.  Pantries  groaned  with 
good  things.  All  available  space  was  set  aside  for  visitors, 
and  the  boys  of  the  family  found  a  bed  in  a  hay-loft  of  the 
barn.  Meantime  hopes  that  had  been  cherished  for  months 
in  rural  manses  approached  fruition.  Ministers'  families  put  by 
small  sums,  as  one  might  save  for  a  European  voyage,  that  the 
alumnus  might  visit  again  his  fostering  mother,  and  catch 
inspiration  enough  to  carry  him  through  another  year  of  a 
long  pastorate.  Then  when  the  time  arrived,  watchers  along 
the  road  saw  the  four-horse  stagecoaches  loaded  with  human 
freight,  and  looked  with  eager  interest  at  the  one-horse  chaises 
and  the  dominie  with  his  saddle-bags  urging  his  horse  towards 
the  goal.  Services  a-plenty  kept  the  visitors  busy.  On  Monday 
evening  came  the  public  meeting  of  the  Society  of  Inquiry. 
Tuesday  brought  the  public  examinations  of  the  classes,  which 
served  the  double  purpose  of  testing  the  intelligence  of  the 
students  and  the  skill  and  orthodoxy  of  the  Faculty.  On  the 
evening  of  the  same  day  occurred  the  public  speaking  of 
the  members  of  the  Porter  Rhetorical  Society.  All  the  year 
they  had  given  utterance  to  eloquent  orations,  engaged  in  de- 
bates, and  occasionally  invited  the  muse  of  poetry.  This  night 
brought  the  coveted  opportunity  to  display  talents  which  might 
command  an  invitation  to  an  enviable  position  in  a  prominent 
pulpit.  Wednesday  the  throng  crowded  into  Bartlet  Chapel, 
shared  in  the  dignified  program,  and  witnessed  the  conferring 
of  final  honors.  A  large  tea  party  afterwards  gave  opportunity 
for  goodbyes,  and  then  the  vehicles,  public  and  private,  car- 
ried the  visitors  away  in  a  cloud  of  dust. 

Punctuated  by  these  exercises  at  seasonable  intervals,  Semi- 
nary life  went  on  from  year  to  year  with  little  excitement. 
Carlyle's  remark  that  records  are  not  expansive  in  time  of 

A67y 


peace  seems  to  have  been  true  at  Andover.  Classes  came  and 
went.  Some  of  the  professors  outlasted  many  student  gener- 
ations ;  for  others  the  terms  of  office  were  short. 

The  annual  catalogues  serve  as  an  index  to  the  official  rela- 
tions of  the  school.  The  increase  in  the  number  of  students 
was  rapid  until  by  1822  there  were  one  hundred  and  thirty-two 
in  attendance,  classified  as  thirty-one  seniors,  thirty-five  mid- 
dlers,  and  sixty-one  juniors.  In  that  year  the  broadside  lists 
that  had  served  for  catalogues  were  abandoned  for  an  eight- 
page  catalogue,  in  which  dormitory  rooms  were  listed  for  the 
first  time.  Slowly  the  number  of  pages  in  the  catalogue  in- 
creased as  it  became  desirable  to  publish  the  expenses  and 
terms  of  admission.  It  was  announced  that  the  Seminary  was 
open  to  all  Protestants  who  were  qualified  by  character,  col- 
lege education,  church  membership,  and  recommendations 
from  two  reliable  persons.  The  catalogue  in  1838  contained 
a  reprint  of  the  annual  examinations  in  sacred  literature, 
Christian  theology,  and  sacred  rhetoric  as  they  had  been  given 
in  each  of  the  preceding  ten  years. 

In  the  catalogue  for  1823  appear  the  names  of  Professors 
Porter,  Woods,  Murdock,  and  Stuart,  as  the  Faculty,  and  a 
group  of  five  men  as  resident  licentiates,  including  Edward 
Robinson,  assistant  instructor  in  the  department  of  sacred 
literature,  Leonard  Bacon,  the  later  historian,  and  George 
Dana  Boardman,  prominent  as  a  missionary. 

James  Murdock  was  the  first  incumbent  of  the  chair  of 
ecclesiastical  history,  which  had  been  established  by  Moses 
Brown  of  Newburyport  in  18 19.  His  duty,  as  imposed  upon 
him  by  the  Trustees,  was  to  inform  the  students  about  Jewish 
antiquities,  the  origin  and  extension  of  the  Church,  the  various 
sects  and  heresies  in  the  early  period,  the  character  and  writ- 
ings of  the  Fathers,  the  rise  of  popery  and  Mohammedanism, 
the  corruptions  of  the  Church  of  Rome,  the  Reformation,  the 
various  constitutions,  disciplines,  and  rites  of  worship  of  the 
Protestant  denominations,  the  state  and  prevalence  of  pagan- 
ism, and  its  influence  on  individual  and  national  character  as 
compared  with  that  of  Mohammedanism  and  Christianity. 
Lacking  a  regular  professorship  hitherto,  the  subject  of  his- 

-{68K 


tory  had  been  neglected,  an  omission  which  had  been  called 
to  the  attention  of  the  Trustees  more  than  once  by  the  Faculty. 
They  protested  that  a  fourth  professor  was  needed,  because 
''God  has  set  the  mark  of  frailty  on  man,"  and  they  were 
sensible  that  they  had  "a  ven.^  precarious  hold  on  health  and 
on  Hfe."  Even  after  his  appointment  he  taught  sacred  rhetoric 
for  five  years  before  he  could  give  his  full  attention  to  church 
history. 

Murdock  was  a  graduate  of  Yale  and  received  the  degree 
of  Doctor  of  Divinity  from  Harvard  in  the  year  of  his  An- 
dover  appointment.  He  was  characterized  as  **a  Httle  dry  man 
with  a  large  elastic  brain  and  nerves  like  catgut."  His  fund 
of  learning  was  prodigious,  and  he  was  an  exact  scholar.  He 
commenced  the  study  of  Syriac  at  the  age  of  seventy,  and 
three  years  later  completed  a  translation  of  the  Syriac  New 
Testament.  Then  he  started  Arabic.  His  appointment  was 
not  approved  by  certain  of  the  watch-dogs  of  Zion.  including 
Emmons  and  Spring,  and  before  he  had  been  at  Andover 
ten  years  the  machiner}^  was  put  into  operation  to  remove  him, 
first  the  Trustees,  then  the  Visitors,  and  finally  the  Supreme 
Court  of  Massachusetts.  He  had  expressed  sentiments  not 
in  accordance  with  the  Creed  as  the  Trustees  understood  it, 
and  it  did  not  seem  to  them  that  he  should  remain.  It  was 
Murdock's  young  son  who  cheered  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes, 
when  he  was  a  homesick  boy  in  the  Academy,  and  whom  he 
embalmed  in  the  verses  : 

"Imp  of  all  mischief,  heaven  alone  knows  how 
You  learned  it  all — are  you  an  angel  now? 

In  those  old  days  the  very,  very  good 

Took  up  more  room,  a  little,  than  they  should ; 

The  solemn  elders  saw  life's  mournful  half. — 
Heaven  sent  this  boy,  whose  mission  was  to  laugh." 

It  appears  as  if  the  Murdock  family  had  an  unconventional 
strain. 

i69y 


Reverend  Ralph  Emerson  succeeded  Dr.  Murdock.  He  had 
graduated  from  Yale  and  Andover,  and  had  served  a  Congre- 
gational church  in  Connecticut  for  thirteen  years.  At  Andover 
he  remained  for  almost  a  quarter  of  a  century,  and  for  half 
that  time  was  chairman  of  the  Faculty.  From  year  to  year 
the  Trustees  followed  the  custom  of  appointing  one  of  the 
professors  to  be  president  of  the  Faculty ;  in  only  two  cases, 
those  of  Porter  and  Edwards,  was  a  man  made  official  presi- 
dent of  the  Seminary  during  the  first  hundred  years.  Stu- 
dents are  proverbially  quick  to  catch  at  idioms  or  mannerisms 
of  their  teachers.  Professor  Emerson  habitually  used  the 
word  ''touching"  when  making  a  special  reference.  With 
this  in  mind  a  wag  in  Commons  arose  one  day  from  his  place 
at  table  and  gravely  announced:  ''Touching  Professor  Emer- 
son's lecture  today  there  will  be  none."  The  records  of  the 
Seminary  do  not  reveal  the  punishment  meted  out  for  such 
Icse  majeste. 

The  catalogue  of  183 1  printed  the  name  of  Edward 
Robinson  as  professor  extraordinary  of  sacred  literature. 
Robinson  had  studied  and  taught  at  Andover  a  few  years 
before  and  then  spent  a  long  term  of  study  abroad.  He  be- 
came renowned  as  the  author  of  biblical  researches  in  Pales- 
tine and  as  founder  of  the  Bihliotheca  Sacra.  Reverend  Thomas 
H.  Skinner  came  to  Andover  shortly  afterward  as  professor 
of  sacred  rhetoric,  but  within  two  years  he  was  followed  by 
Edwards  A.  Park,  who  thus  commenced  a  service  of  forty- 
five  years  to  the  Seminary. 

In  1839  the  catalogue  included  for  the  first  time  the  names 
of  the  Trustees  and  the  Visitors,  preceded  by  those  of  the 
Faculty.  The  course  of  study  was  outlined  on  a  single  page, 
and  for  a  year  appeared  a  statement  of  an  Advanced  Class. 
Three  years  later  the  size  of  the  catalogue  had  increased  to 
sixteen  pages.  Within  two  years  brief  notices  were  given  of 
the  Library,  which  then  contained  more  than  thirteen  thou- 
sand volumes ;  to  the  Porter  Rhetorical  Society,  with  its  li- 
brary of  2,600  books ;  and  to  the  Society  of  Inquiry,  which 
had  accumulated  1,400  publications.  Names  of  instructors 
appear  and  disappear  :  Beckwith,  Talcott  and  Henry  B.  Smith, 


Russell,  Robbins,  Dickinson,  and  Robie.  Professors  Woods 
and  Stuart  were  retired  as  emeritus.  In  1844  the  number  of 
students  fell  below  one  hundred  and  continued  in  the  nineties 
most  of  the  time  for  a  number  of  years. 

Both  Justin  and  Bela  B.  Edwards  joined  the  Faculty  during 
this  period.  Justin  Edwards  was  a  farmer's  son  and  was 
compelled  to  struggle  for  an  education,  but  he  graduated  with 
honors  from  Williams  College  in  1810.  During  the  second 
year  of  his  theological  course  at  Andover  he  was  asked  to 
become  pastor  of  the  South  Parish  Church,  which  then  in- 
cluded members  from  the  Seminary  and  Academy,  and  he 
remained  in  that  position  fifteen  years.  He  was  one  of  the 
founders  of  the  American  Tract  Society,  and  acted  as  corre- 
sponding secretary  and  manager.  For  seven  years  he  was 
pastor  of  the  Salem  Street  Church  in  Boston,  and  then  for 
the  same  length  of  time  he  was  secretary  of  the  American 
Temperance  Society.  In  1836  he  was  elected  president  of 
the  Seminary,  but  after  six  years  he  resumed  secretarial 
duties,  this  time  of  the  American  and  Foreign  Sabbath  Union. 
He  was  devoted  to  these  various  causes  and  wrote  Sabbath 
and  Temperance  manuals,  besides  a  commentary  on  the  New 
Testament  which  was  published  at  Andover  by  the  American 
Tract  Society.  He  held  an  unusual  relation  to  the  Seminary. 
A  student  within  three  years  of  its  founding  and  pastor  in 
the  South  Parish  for  fifteen  years,  he  became  president  of 
the  school,  was  thirty-three  years  a  Trustee,  and  finally  chair- 
man of  the  Board.  Thus  he  saw  Seminary  life  from  all  its 
angles. 

Bela  B.  Edwards  had  a  literary  as  well  as  an  educational 
career.  Trained  at  both  Amherst  and  Williams  and  a  grad- 
uate of  Andover  in  1830,  he  served  as  assistant  secretary  of 
the  American  Education  Society  for  five  years  and  then  became 
editor  of  the  American  Quarterly  Register.  He  held  that  po- 
sition for  fourteen  years,  and  part  of  the  time  was  editor  of 
the  American  Quarterly  Observer  and  of  the  Biblical  Reposi- 
tory. Later  he  was  on  the  board  of  the  Bibliotheca  Sacra.  He 
was  not  ordained  until  1837,  when  he  became  professor  of 
the  Hebrew  language  and  literature  at  Andover  Seminary, 


where  he  remained  until  his  death  fifteen  years  later.  His 
spirituality  and  friendliness  earned  for  him  the  encomium — 
''that  tender  heart,  that  seraphic  spirit."  His  monument  bore 
the  inscription:  ''An  humble  student  of  the  Bible;  an  admirer 
of  nature,  an  enthusiast  in  the  classics  and  the  fine  arts ;  deli- 
cate and  practical  in  his  tastes;  careful  and  patient  in  his 
researches;  of  multifarious  learning,  of  comprehensive  judg- 
ment ;  earnest  and  sensitive,  but  gentle  and  serene ;  severe 
towards  himself,  charitable  to  others ;  he  was  a  discreet  coun- 
sellor, a  revered  friend,  a  disciple  whom  Jesus  loved." 

With  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century  came  changes 
which  marked  the  approach  of  the  semi-centennial  of  the 
Seminary.  The  founders  were  gone  or  lingered,  like  Squire 
Farrar,  to  help  celebrate  the  fifty  years.  The  familiar  figures 
of  many  years  were  seen  no  more  in  the  classrooms.  Pro- 
fessors Woods  and  Stuart  had  seemed  as  firmly  planted  as 
the  elms  on  the  campus.  Yet  the  time  had  come  when  the  eye 
was  dimmed  and  the  natural  force  abated,  and  they  exchanged 
the  lectures  of  the  classrooms  for  the  mellowing  thoughts  of 
the  fireside.  Long  had  they  been  neighbors  on  Main  Street, 
one  in  a  house  that  had  been  built  two  years  after  the  opening 
of  the  Seminary,  the  other  six  years  later.  But  as  new  occu- 
pants took  the  chairs  of  instruction,  so  they  replaced  the  older 
men  in  the  professors'  houses.  Professor  Barrows  gave  a 
new  oriental  atmosphere  to  the  study  that  for  so  long  had 
breathed  the  flavor  of  theology.  Professor  Thayer  before  long 
restored  the  biblical  atmosphere  in  the  Stuart  house. 

Edwards  A.  Park  was  transferred  from  the  chair  of  sacred 
rhetoric,  which  he  had  held  for  eleven  years,  to  the  chair  of 
Christian  theology  as  successor  of  Woods.  Some  thought  that 
his  theological  coins  did  not  ring  true,  but  he  lived  to  be  recog- 
nized as  the  champion  of  Calvinistic  orthodoxy  and  to  fasten 
his  system  of  theology  upon  the  thought  of  a  generation  of 
Congregational  ministers.  Austin  Phelps  became  Bartlet  pro- 
fessor of  sacred  rhetoric,  and  came  to  exert  an  influence  over 
the  preaching  of  his  pupils  comparable  to  that  of  Park  in  the- 
ology. Calvin  E.  Stowe  was  a  professor  of  high  standing  for 
twelve  years  in  his  own  right,  while  he  enjoyed  the  reflected 


glow  of  his  wife's  fame.  W.  G.  T.  Shedd,  as  professor  of 
church  history,  brought  added  reputation  to  Andover  through 
his  books  as  well  as  his  classroom  instruction.  Lowell  Mason 
and  George  F.  Root  at  times  were  instructors  in  music. 

Elijah  P.  Barrows  became  professor  of  the  Hebrew  lan- 
guage and  literature  in  1853.  A  graduate  of  Yale,  he  had  been 
at  Western  Reserve  University  for  fifteen  years  as  professor 
of  sacred  rhetoric.  At  Andover  he  taught  Hebrew  at  first, 
and  was  then  promoted  to  a  full  professorship.  He  was  to 
remain  at  Andover  for  thirteen  years  and  then  to  round  out 
his  teaching  career  at  Oberlin.  It  was  usual  for  Andover 
to  look  with  preference  to  her  own  alumni  as  prospective 
teachers,  but  this  did  not  prevent  a  wider  look  abroad  if  there 
was  a  professor  of  note  rising  above  the  horizon  somewhere 
else.  The  successor  of  Barrows  was  Charles  M.  Mead,  who 
had  graduated  from  Middlebury,  had  been  a  teacher  at 
Phillips  Academy  at  Andover,  and  then  had  gone  to  study 
at  Halle  and  Berlin.  By  that  time  he  was  prepared  for  a  pro- 
fessional career,  and  the  Trustees  elected  him  to  the  chair  of 
Hebrew  language  and  literature  at  Andover,  which  he  occu- 
pied for  fourteen  years  until  1882.  Later  on  he  put  ten  years 
into  literary  work  in  England  and  Germany  and  many  more 
in  America,  taught  at  Princeton  and  Hartford  seminaries, 
and  was  one  of  the  American  revisers  of  the  Bible.  He  was 
author  and  editor.  He  was  bespangled  with  degrees,  doctor  of 
philosophy  from  Tiibingen,  doctor  of  divinity  from  Middle- 
bury  and  Princeton,  and  doctor  of  laws  from  Middlebury,  but 
he  was  human  just  the  same. 

The  number  of  students  was  in  the  nineties  for  several 
years.  There  were  exactly  one  hundred  in  1854.  Three  years 
later  the  number  had  risen  to  one  hundred  and  twenty-three, 
representing  the  five  states  of  the  Old  Northwest,  Canada, 
and  England,  as  well  as  New  England,  and  fourteen  of  them 
were  from  institutions  other  than  the  Congregational  colleges 
of  New  England. 

At  the  middle  of  the  century  the  earlier  alumni  were  bearing 
the  burden  and  heat  of  the  active  ministry.  They  must  have 
looked  back  in  thought  now  and  then  to  the  old  Brick  Row 


and  the  classrooms  where  they  had  struggled  with  Hebrew 
roots  and  Greek  stems,  waged  wordy  battle  over  'ologies  and 
'isms,  and  practised  the  art  of  swaying  the  minds  and  emo- 
tions of  congregations.  They  recalled  the  friendships  that 
were  cemented  as  they  walked  under  the  green  canopy  of 
Elm  Arch  or  looked  out  on  the  "old  orthodox  green,  so  very 
orthodox  that  all  the  paths  are  at  right  angles,  and  no  cuts 
across."  There  they  had  opened  their  hearts  to  one  another ; 
there  they  had  pondered  long  in  the  Society  of  Inquiry  whether 
their  duty  lay  near  at  home  or  farther  afield ;  there  they  had 
sung  lustily  on  the  chorus  of  the  Lockhart  Society,  or  had 
declaimed  on  the  platform  of  the  Porter  Rhetorical  Society. 
Or  their  thought  wandered  to  the  staid  froHcs  of  the  town 
church  or  the  professors'  homes,  or  to  the  long  walks  across 
country  to  woods  and  ponds  and  around  the  bald  hills.  They 
remembered  how  they  strolled  along  Indian  Ridge  and  traced 
the  windings  of  the  Shawsheen  River,  or  loafed  on  the  slope 
above  Pomp's  Pond,  or  climbed  Sunset  Rock  to  get  a  view  of 
the  sunset. 

Sunsets  from  Andover  Hill  were  frequently  eulogized  by 
those  who  loved  the  old  town.  One  speaker  at  the  fiftieth 
anniversary  declared:  "I  have  looked  upon  the  far-famed 
sunsets  of  Italy,  and  my  sober  conviction  is  that  never  was 
there  a  display  of  the  beauties  and  glories  of  the  firmament 
more  magnificent  than  that  which  is  often  furnished,  from 
this  very  spot,  to  those  who  here  are  in  training  for  the  Chris- 
tian ministry ;  as  if  to  them,  like  the  apostle  at  Patmos,  a  door 
was  opened  into  heaven.  Even  now  after  years  of  absence  I 
cannot  rid  myself  of  the  impression,  deepened  by  so  many 
hours  of  twilight  musings,  that  the  transition  from  this  fav- 
ored place  to  the  mansions  of  the  blessed  is  specially  easy  and 
natural,  that  the  gates  of  pearl  and  the  stones  of  sapphire  lie 
just  beyond  those  gorgeous  clouds  in  the  western  sky,  which 
forever  are  taking  and  giving  glory  in  the  light  of  the  setting 
sun." 

A  student  writing  from  Andover  Hill  in  1856  thus  de- 
scribed the  school  and  its  environs :  "To  the  north  the  eye  can 
travel  up  to  the  blue  hills  of  New  Hampshire,  and  only  three 

i7Ay 


miles  distant  stand  and  smoke  the  mammoth  factories  of  the 
city  of  Lawrence.  The  whole  scenery  about  is  dotted  with  se- 
questered villages  and  snow-white  farmhouses.  Lowell,  Salem, 
Haverhill,  and  Boston,  are  next-door  neighbors.  On  the  south 
is  a  hedge  of  railroad ;  on  the  east  we  can  almost  hear  the 
roaring  of  the  ocean ;  on  the  north  flows  the  devious  but  busy 
Merrimac ;  while  the  west,  to  say  nothing  of  its  home  associa- 
tions, gives  us  a  never-to-be-forgotten  sunset.  Thus  environed, 
overarched  by  a  deep  blue  sky,  and  standing  upon  ground 
whose  beauty  pen  and  paper  cannot  paint,  Andover  is  the  spot 
for  a  seminary.  .  .  .  Nearly  every  house  looks  like  a  country- 
seat,  and  even  the  old  edifices,  which  were  raised,  I  suppose, 
in  the  last  century,  have  an  air  of  neatness  about  them,  being 
clothed  in  the  purest  white.  It  is  a  very  wealthy  place ;  but  the 
wealth  of  the  Seminary  astonishes  me.  Nearly  every  house 
within  a  quarter  of  a  mile  is  owned  by  the  Trustees." 

The  Seminary  approached  its  semi-centennial  with  pride  and 
confidence.  It  was  no  longer  an  experiment.  It  had  settled 
down  to  steady  usefulness  decade  by  decade.  Its  graduates 
had  gone  hither  and  yon  on  various  errands  bent.  They  were 
pastors  in  country  and  city.  They  were  missionaries  in  the  East 
and  the  West.  They  were  in  demand  for  chairs  of  instruc- 
tion and  administration  in  the  colleges,  in  editors'  sanctums, 
and  in  secretarial  offices.  Times  were  changing.  The  anti- 
slavery  agitation  was  in  the  air.  Anti-masonry  and  anti-popery 
were  clamorous  for  support.  The  Mormons  had  been  creat- 
ing excitement  in  Missouri,  and  the  Kansas  Crusade  was  on. 
But  staid  old  New  England  was  not  revolutionary,  either  with 
quack  religion  or  social  creed.  The  Congregational  churches 
were  still  orthodox,  and  the  old  gospel  was  the  theme  of  the 
pulpit.  Those  were  halcyon  days  for  theological  professors, 
leisurely  days  for  village  ministers.  They  were  not  hazed  by 
committees  and  disturbed  by  telephone  calls.  They  were  not 
vexed,  as  their  brethren  were  later,  by  labor  unions  or  the 
Ku  Klux  Klan.  They  could  still  take  time  to  drive  leisurely 
around  among  their  parishioners  and  listen  to  the  recital  of 
ills  real  or  imaginary.  There  were  no  campaigns  of  religious 
education  or  social  service.    Sermons,  to  be  sure,  must  be 

i75Y 


wrought  out  on  the  anvil,  not  tossed  together  with  an  assort- 
ment of  stories ;  because  the  people  had  ideas  of  their  own 
about  doctrine,  and  they  liked  to  hear  orthodoxy  expounded. 
And  the  deacons  held  their  positions  for  life,  while  the  min- 
ister's was  more  precarious  and  subject  to  behavior  accordant 
with  the  will  of  elect  laymen.  But  the  minister  was  held  in 
honor  in  his  own  church  and  community,  and  to  be  an  alumnus 
of  Andover  gave  prestige. 

The  year  1858  brought  the  fiftieth  anniversary,  and  the 
semi-centennial  was  celebrated  on  Wednesday  and  Thursday, 
August  fifth  and  sixth.  Old  graduates  forgot  for  the  time 
their  worries  over  the  financial  depression  that  had  come  the 
year  before,  and  their  forebodings  over  the  shadow  that  was 
spreading  over  the  nation  with  its  threat  of  civil  war.  Not  in 
a  rumbling  stagecoach  and  a  cloud  of  dust  over  the  turnpike 
did  they  return  to  Andover,  as  in  the  olden  days,  but  with 
greater  comfort,  if  not  cleanliness,  over  the  rails.  They  came 
back  to  find  the  old  carpenter  shop  made  over  into  a  residence 
for  Professor  Stowe  and  his  family.  Very  likely  they  stopped 
to  pay  their  respects  to  the  militant  wife  who  had  kindled  a 
conflagration  of  emotional  excitement  across  the  country  by 
her  descriptions  of  the  suffering  of  the  Negro.  Uncle  Tom's 
cabin  was  away  down  south  in  the  land  of  cotton,  but  his 
wrongs  were  vivid  to  the  conscience  of  America,  because  the 
wife  of  a  professor  gave  voice  to  the  heart  of  a  race  while 
she  rocked  the  cradle  of  her  youngest  child. 

Seminary  customs  had  not  changed  much.  If  the  visitors 
had  grown  soft  out  in  the  pastorate,  they  must  get  up  to  a 
6.15  o'clock  chapel  service  before  breakfast.  Even  in  Anni- 
versary Week  Seminary  prayers  must  not  be  delayed,  and 
breakfast  must  wait.  Seminary  Commons  had  been  moved 
ten  years  before  to  the  corner  of  Main  and  Morton  Streets. 
Alumni  greeted  one  another  and  exchanged  reminiscences, 
and  met  again  in  class  reunions.  They  caught  step  with  the 
academic  procession,  and  absorbed  the  spirit  of  the  anniver- 
sary which  was  so  important  a  landmark  in  Andover  history. 
Dr.  Leonard  Bacon  recited  the  story  of  progress  in  an  his- 
torical address.    Memorial  addresses  were  delivered  on  the 


illustrious  members  of  the  Faculty  who  had  passed  on.  The 
Library  and  its  collections  were  thrown  open  for  inspection. 
A  spirit  of  decorous  gaiety  pervaded  the  campus,  and  a  rosy 
future  was  anticipated  for  the  Seminary. 

Scarcely  was  the  celebration  over  when  war  broke  upon  the 
country.  The  community  hummed  with  excitement,  and  pres- 
ently volunteers  were  drilling  in  expectation  of  marching 
southward.  The  students  could  not  escape  feeling  the  emo- 
tions of  the  time.  They  joined  in  the  exercises  that  attended 
the  raising  of  a  flag,  which  was  flung  to  the  breeze  at  the 
Seminary,  listened  to  the  prayer  of  Professor  Park,  the  pres- 
entation speech  of  Professor  Phelps,  and  the  address  of  Pro- 
fessor Stowe,  and  thrilled  as  they  sang  Mrs.  Stowe's  original 
hymn  written  for  the  occasion.  The  men  of  the  Seminary 
fraternized  with  the  Phillips  Guard,  the  Havelock  Grays,  and 
the  Andover  Light  Infantry,  and  realized  that  real  war  was 
at  hand.   Mrs.  Stowe  gave  a  collation  to  the  Havelock  Grays. 

Interest  in  the  anti-slavery  movement  had  been  current  in 
the  years  before  the  war.  A  small  abolition  society  was  or- 
ganized in  Andover  at  least  fifteen  years  earlier.  The  society  on 
one  occasion  appointed  a  student  delegate  to  a  convention  in 
New  York.  It  was  necessary  to  obtain  the  permission  of  Pro- 
fessor Woods,  and  this  was  refused.  The  student  went  in 
spite  of  the  refusal,  expecting  to  be  disciplined  on  his  return, 
but  he  escaped.  It  was  only  a  few  years  since  the  Trustees 
had  reprimanded  the  Faculty  because  its  members  spent  too 
much  time  out  of  town,  and  perhaps  the  Faculty  thought  it 
as  well  not  to  press  their  authority  against  a  student. 

A  number  of  students  enlisted  in  the  army;  others  who 
would  have  entered  delayed  or  abandoned  their  purpose.  The 
number  of  students  declined  from  one  hundred  and  thirty- 
three  in  i860  to  sixty-eight  in  1864.  Andover  alumni  joined 
the  army  either  as  chaplains  or  soldiers  until  the  Seminary  was 
represented  on  the  roster  by  sixty-five  men.  One  man  was 
brevetted  a  brigadier  general.  Four  were  killed  or  died  of 
wounds.  A  chaplain  was  killed  as  he  was  going  to  the  relief 
of  a  wounded  comrade. 

The  Lockhart  Society  broadened  its  repertory  to  include 

i77y 


patriotic  songs.  They  sang  the  ''Star-Spangled  Banner"  at 
the  flag  raising.  At  a  town  celebration  on  Washington's 
Birthday  they  rendered  the  same  song  and  added  "Hail 
Columbia,"  "America,"  and  the  "Russian  Hymn."  They  did 
not  disdain  to  assist  in  a  festival  of  the  Female  Missionary 
Society  in  the  town  hall.  After  the  war  had  progressed,  con- 
scientious men  faced  the  problem  whether  country  or  Semi- 
nary had  the  more  immediate  claim.  It  was  then  that  the 
Lockhart  Society  lost  both  its  president  and  secretary  by 
enlistment. 

Other  evidences  of  the  widening  scope  of  the  Society  ap- 
peared even  before  the  war.  Its  members  accepted  an  invita- 
tion to  spend  the  evening  at  Abbot  Academy.  The  secretary 
recorded  a  minute  in  the  archives  that  "the  Society  passed 
several  hours  very  pleasantly  in  the  company  of  the  teachers 
and  their  pupils,  chatting,  partaking  of  a  handsome  collation, 
singing  and  listening  to  music  by  some  of  the  young  ladies," 
after  which  they  took  their  leave,  and  like  real  college  boys 
sang  a  couple  of  pieces  as  a  serenade. 

Even  more  venturesome  was  an  excursion  to  the  neighboring 
town  of  Aliddleton  to  give  a  concert.  They  went  in  three  con- 
veyances over  the  road,  performed  their  parts  creditably,  and 
then  accepted  an  invitation  to  a  hospitable  home  for  refresh- 
ments. In  due  time  they  commenced  the  return  journey,  be- 
guiling the  way  with  various  adventures  of  the  road  in  mid- 
Victorian  fashion,  making  merry  with  "all  manner  of  music, 
stories,  jokes,  and  other  theological  amusements,"  and  arriv- 
ing at  the  Seminary  about  "234  o'clock  a.m.,  well  pleased,  in 
good  order,  and  sleepy."  One  wonders  whether  Dr.  Pearson 
would  have  disciplined  the  boys  for  such  revelry  fifty  years 
before,  and  whether  the  student  who  thought  it  frivolous  to 
meet  in  society  at  a  professor's  house  would  not  have  been 
scandalized.  That  this  was  not  the  only  fling  engaged  in  by 
the  singing  society  is  clear  from  the  record  of  a  visit  of  nine  of 
them  to  the  North  Andover  Church.  They  rendered  "Lovely 
Night,"  the  "Miller's  Song,"  and  a  march  "in  a  proper  and 
artistic  manner,"  but  these  were  plainly  unacceptable  to  the 
audience  of  young  children,  so  one  of  the  students  read  to 


them  "Darius  Green  and  His  Flying  Machine"  amid  tre- 
mendous applause,  and  the  Society  sang  ''Three  Black  Crows" 
and  "Upidee,"  and  adjourned. 

Amid  these  occasional  diversions  the  Society  did  not  forget 
its  main  purpose.  It  resolved  as  a  result  of  experience  and 
observation  that  theological  students  should  cultivate  their 
musical  capacities  sufificiently  so  that  they  might  start  a  tune 
in  social  worship,  and  might  exert  an  influence  in  guiding  the 
music  of  the  sanctuary.  They  resolved  also  that  church  wor- 
ship should  be  conducted  wholly  as  a  devotional  service,  and 
not  as  an  artistic  or  operatic  performance.  And  finally  they 
resolved  that  it  was  highly  important  that  churches  should 
have  congregational  singing,  and  that  Sunday  School  children 
should  be  trained  to  sing  such  music  as  they  would  come  to 
use  in  the  service  of  worship  in  the  meetinghouse. 

They  continued  occasionally  to  go  out  into  the  country  to 
give  a  concert,  and  once  they  sang  at  an  entertainment  given 
by  the  Boston  School  of  Oratory  in  the  Old  South  Church, 
the  proceeds  being  turned  over  to  the  cause  of  home  missions. 
They  furnished  the  music  for  public  meetings  of  the  Porter 
Rhetorical  Society  and  the  Society  of  Inquiry.  They  profited 
from  the  instruction  of  Lowell  Mason.  But  they  were  not 
without  annoyances.  On  one  occasion  they  attempted  an  effort 
beyond  their  powers  which  '"but  for  ye  accuracy  and  efficiency 
of  President  Seymour  would  have  involved  ye  Lockharts  in 
un-get-out-able  disgrace."  The  week  before  that  unfortunate 
occurrence  the  members  of  the  Society  lost  patience  with  the 
second  bass,  and  it  was  voted  to  instruct  the  president  to  labor 
with  him  and  bring  him  up  to  a  higher  standard  of  attendance 
and  practice  or  to  ask  his  resignation. 

Years  before  the  Society  had  asked  the  Trustees  to  pro- 
vide an  instructor  in  music,  and  at  times  such  instruction  was 
given.  Not  long  after  the  last  incidents  occurred  a  musical 
director  was  receiving  seventy-five  dollars  a  year,  including 
the  organist,  for  leading  the  Glee  Club,  which  the  Society 
sometimes  called  itself,  providing  a  choir  for  the  Sunday 
evening  services  and  an  organist  and  leader  for  morning 
prayers  and  the  Wednesday  evening  conference,  and  giving 

i79y 


a  course  of  twelve  lessons  in  elementary  music  to  the  students 
through  the  winter. 

Inter-Seminary  relations  took  on  a  new  phase.  Back  in  the 
early  days  of  the  century,  when  a  few  students  were  cher- 
ishing the  flame  of  missionary  interest,  they  were  concerned 
with  the  state  of  mind  of  different  seminaries  on  that  subject, 
and  branches  of  the  Brethren  were  organized.  But  denomi- 
national interests  divided  attention  and  increased  organiza- 
tions, and  inter-seminary  relations  lapsed.  After  1870  the 
idea  of  closer  friendliness  led  to  the  organization  of  a  social 
union  of  the  theological  students  at  Boston  University  School 
of  Theology,  the  Cambridge  Episcopal  School,  the  Newton 
Theological  Institution  and  Andover.  In  the  early  winter  of 
1875  the  Andover  students  played  host  to  the  Union,  receiving 
the  delegates  in  the  forenoon,  holding  a  public  meeting  in  the 
South  Parish  Church,  where  Phillips  Brooks  and  other  well- 
known  ministers  addressed  them,  with  music  by  the  musical 
societies  of  Andover  and  Boston  University,  with  class  prayer 
meetings  and  a  visit  to  the  library,  and  in  the  afternoon  a 
dinner  followed  by  toasts  and  a  God-speed  as  the  visitors  left 
for  Boston  on  a  special  train.  Similar  rallies  were  held  inter- 
mittently in  subsequent  years.  Once  the  students  assembled 
at  Boston  University,  another  time  at  Cambridge,  when  Har- 
vard and  Tufts  were  represented.  Several  of  the  conferences 
at  Andover  were  devoted  to  the  subject  of  missions.  The  ebb 
and  flow  of  interest  depended  on  the  leadership  of  a  few  men 
who  from  time  to  time  had  a  larger  vision  than  the  ordinary. 

Andover  felt  the  competition  of  other  schools  as  the  num- 
ber of  seminaries  increased,  and  a  tendency  appeared  to 
decline  in  numbers.  Once  the  Civil  War  was  over,  the  enroll- 
ment increased.  Young  men  who  had  been  delayed  by  the 
war  entered  the  school.  In  1866  the  mark  of  one  hundred  was 
passed  once  more,  though  attendance  was  to  drop  off  seri- 
ously in  the  next  decade.  The  fluctuation  in  attendance  was 
occasioned  by  a  number  of  factors.  A  partial  cause  of  the  oc- 
casional dearth  of  students  was  the  decrease  in  the  number  of 
college  students  entering  the  ministry.  The  rise  of  Hartford 
and  Yale  stiffened  competition.   Andover  was  one  of  the  first 


of  the  seminaries  to  experiment  with  an  English  course  for 
men  who  had  not  had  the  advantage  of  college  preparation.  A 
special  professor  was  appointed  for  their  instruction  with 
power  to  decide  the  courses  that  the  students  should  take,  be- 
sides a  prescribed  course  in  Historical  Studies  in  the  English 
Version  of  the  Scriptures.  In  twelve  years  eighty  students 
were  enrolled  in  the  department,  but  the  experiment  came  to 
an  end  with  the  resignation  of  Professor  Taylor,  who  had  been 
in  charge.  The  Advanced  Course,  which  had  been  tried  early 
in  the  history  of  the  Seminary,  was  tried  again,  and  reached 
the  number  of  more  than  one  hundred.  Yale  had  made  a  suc- 
cess of  the  plan,  and  its  inception  at  Andover  drew  Trinitarian 
students  from  Harvard.  They  liked  freedom  from  lectures, 
the  opportunity  of  having  special  distinguished  instructors 
from  outside  to  lecture  to  them,  even  from  Europe,  and 
they  enjoyed  doing  creative  work  under  the  direction  of  the 
Faculty. 

Attendance  at  the  Seminary  depended  many  times  on 
whether  a  student  could  obtain  pecuniary  aid.  The  founders 
of  the  institution  realized  that  such  would  be  the  case  and 
made  provision  for  scholarships.  The  Constitution  provided 
that  no  student  in  the  school  should  ever  be  charged  tuition. 
Soon  there  was  more  demand  than  could  be  met,  since  many 
of  the  men  depended  solely  on  their  own  exertions.  Scholar- 
ship funds  were  therefore  sought  for,  and  the  time  came  when 
a  student  received  two  hundred  dollars  a  year  from  the  Semi- 
nary and  the  American  Education  Society,  and  additional 
assistance  for  special  need. 

Eventually  it  became  necessary  to  raise  funds  for  increased 
endowment  and  new  buildings.  The  Seminary  was  fortunate 
at  the  beginning  in  its  benefactors.  The  necessary  buildings 
were  provided  and  sufficient  money  was  available  for  the 
modest  needs  of  the  school.  With  a  professor's  salary  fixed 
at  one  thousand  dollars,  or  even  fifteen  hundred,  as  it  was 
after  1819,  with  a  residence  rent  free,  the  demands  upon  the 
treasury  were  not  heavy.  Yet  one-third  of  the  benefactions 
were  unproductive  of  income,  so  that  the  vested  funds  were 
not  so  large  as  was  popularly  supposed.  When  the  large  num- 


ber  of  students  required  an  enlarged  faculty,  more  money 
must  be  forthcoming.  The  friends  of  the  school  were  not 
grudging,  and  no  serious  need  went  uncared  for.  For  more 
than  fifty  years  the  three  buildings  of  Brick  Row  had  received 
no  additions,  but  the  Trustees  held  a  large  amount  of  land,  and 
professors'  houses  were  added  on  occasion. 

Two  years  before  the  semi-centennial  there  was  a  school 
property  valued  at  four  hundred  thousand  dollars,  exclusive 
of  the  library,  which  numbered  about  twenty  thousand  vol- 
umes. $117,000  of  this  amount  was  in  buildings,  $228,000  in 
investments,  drawing  an  income  of  six  per  cent.  This  pro- 
vided an  income  of  $17,000,  which  the  Trustees  divided  into 
six  parts.  $1,560  was  added  annually  to  permanent  fund; 
$1,020  was  assigned  to  meet  the  growing  needs  of  the  library ; 
$3,000  was  appropriated  for  the  upkeep  of  the  property ; 
$2,000  went  for  all  other  annual  expenses  except  instruction ; 
$7,900  was  set  aside  for  the  salaries  of  five  professors  and 
two  temporary  instructors,  and  $1,800  went  for  student  aid. 

It  was  felt  that  the  increasing  cost  of  living  required  larger 
salaries  for  the  Faculty,  for  no  change  had  been  made  for 
thirty-five  years.  This  would  require  $40,000  in  additional 
funds,  and  friends  in  Boston  and  vicinity  were  asked  at  a 
meeting  in  the  Old  South  Church  to  supply  that  need.  The 
library  needed  a  new  building.  That  would  cost  $30,000. 
The  same  amount  was  needed  for  student  aid.  Once  the  war 
was  over  the  Trustees  undertook  a  campaign  to  meet  the 
accumulating  needs.  Believing  in  the  returning  prosperity  of 
the  Seminary  and  an  increasing  number  of  students,  they 
planned  on  a  larger  scale  than  ever  before.  They  asked  for 
endowment  for  three  new  professorships.  They  saw  the  de- 
sirability of  bringing  distinguished  leaders  before  the  students, 
and  for  that  purpose  proposed  five  lectureships.  If  three  fel- 
lowships should  be  endowed,  it  would  be  possible  for  excep- 
tional scholars  among  the  graduates  to  enjoy  the  privilege  of 
a  year  or  two  in  European  study.  They  asked  for  funds  to 
provide  fifty  scholarships  to  aid  the  undergraduates.  The 
library  needed  a  separate  fund  for  books  and  administration 
as  well  as  for  better  housing  of  its  store  of  literature.   They 

^82  )► 


undertook  to  increase  recent  benefactions  until  the  total  should 
amount  to  $300,000. 

Among  the  particular  needs  that  were  felt  was  a  lectureship 
in  missions,  for  Andover  had  a  reputation  as  a  missionary 
school.  Already  it  had  sent  out  one  hundred  and  fifty  mission- 
aries, and  a  lectureship  in  missions  was  the  logical  consequence. 
The  Trustees  were  impressed  by  the  early  death  of  many 
missionaries  and  of  pastors  in  the  churches  with  the  urgent 
need  of  scientific  lectures  on  health.  A  still  larger  sum  than 
for  these  needs  should  be  available  for  instruction  in  elocution. 
New  principles  and  methods  were  coming  into  practice,  and 
sacred  rhetoric  needed  supplementing.  To  meet  the  attacks  of 
science  upon  the  citadels  of  orthodox  theology,  there  was  need 
of  lectures  on  logic  and  mental  philosophy  to  show  the  best 
methods  of  defence  of  the  gospel  against  pantheism  and  ma- 
terialism. And  besides  these  was  the  new  biblical  criticism 
coming  from  Europe,  and  no  less  than  thirty  thousand  dollars 
was  needed  for  a  new  professorship  in  that  field.  One  hun- 
dred and  fifty  college  presidents  and  professors  had  been 
trained  at  Andover.  The  best  students  ought  not  to  have  to 
go  elsewhere  for  the  best  instruction. 

When  the  needs  were  published  there  was  a  generous  re- 
sponse. New  chairs  were  endowed,  lectureships  were  pro- 
vided, the  needs  of  the  library  were  not  forgotten.  It  is 
impressive  to  read  the  list  of  the  funds  reported  in  1867  as 
having  been  added  within  little  more  than  a  decade.  The 
largest  gift  was  Brechin  Hall,  given  for  a  library  building  by 
two  brothers,  John  and  Peter  Smith,  and  John  Dove,  natives 
of  Brechin,  Scotland.  This  was  completed  in  1866  at  an  ex- 
pense of  more  than  forty  thousand  dollars.  It  was  constructed 
of  stone,  with  a  tower  ninety-three  feet  high,  giving  a  wide 
prospect  over  the  surrounding  country.  The  main  part  of  the 
building  was  seventy  by  forty-three  feet.  Though  forty  years 
more  were  to  crowd  its  space  with  books,  the  new  structure 
furnished  welcome  relief  from  the  pressure  upon  the  Hmited 
quarters  in  Bartlet  Chapel. 

The  recent  benefactions  included  Miss  Sophia  Smith's 
endowment  of  a  new  professorship  in  theology,  amounting 


to  $30,000;  two  Hitchcock  donations  of  $30,000;  the  Boston 
Fund  for  salary  increases,  raised  by  subscription,  to  the  amount 
of  $28,000;  $27,000  for  scholarships;  $20,500  pledged  for  a 
new  chapel ;  a  fund  for  library  maintenance  given  by  the 
donors  of  the  building,  amounting  to  $19,000;  the  Jones  en- 
dowment of  a  chair  in  elocution  to  the  amount  of  $15,000 ;  the 
Hyde  and  Southworth  lectureships  of  $5,000  each ;  the  Reed 
legacy  of  $5,000  for  the  library ;  the  same  amount  for  the 
Newton  Cabinet,  and  miscellaneous  sums  to  the  total  of 
nearly  $40,000. 

The  next  few  years  brought  more  benefactions,  for  the 
needs  increased  as  fast  as  the  means  could  be  provided.  A 
bequest  from  Frederick  H.  Taylor  of  Andover,  supplemented 
by  other  Taylor  donations,  made  possible  the  Taylor  profes- 
sorship of  biblical  theology  and  history.  Into  this  chair  John 
Phelps  Taylor  was  inducted  in  1883,  Mr.  Daniel  P.  Stone,  a 
Boston  merchant,  left  about  two  million  dollars  at  his  death 
in  1878,  to  be  distributed  by  his  wife.  She  contributed  a  single 
gift  of  fifty  thousand  dollars  to  the  Seminary,  which  endowed 
the  Stone  professorship  of  the  relations  of  Christianity  and 
science.  Subsequently  by  making  provisional  gifts  she  was  the 
means  of  bringing  into  the  treasury  of  the  Seminary  large  addi- 
tional funds.  Within  the  eight  years  from  1873  to  1881  two  hun- 
dred and  fifty  thousand  dollars  were  added  to  the  resources. 

The  result  of  all  these  benefactions  was  greater  breadth  of 
instruction  and  increased  facilities  in  the  buildings.  Lectures 
began  to  be  given  regularly  in  missions  on  the  Hyde  foundation, 
including  Rufus  Anderson,  Julius  H.  Seelye,  Edward  A.  Law- 
rence, John  P.  Jones,  Charles  Cuthbert  Hall,  James  L.  Barton, 
Edward  C.  Moore,  Otis  Cary,  and  John  R.  Mott.  Some  of  the 
lectures  on  the  Southworth  foundation,  dealing  with  Congre- 
gationalism, revivals,  and  home  evangelization,  were  by 
Henry  M.  Dexter,  Amory  H.  Bradford,  W'illiston  Walker, 
Francis  G.  Peabody,  and  Arthur  C.  McGififert.  Soon  the  new 
Taylor,  Stone,  and  Smith  professorships  were  available.  It 
became  possible  to  secure  the  services  of  a  skilled  librarian, 
and  Reverend  William  L.  Ropes  commenced  a  service  of  al- 
most forty  years  to  the  Seminary.  The  library  was  enriched  by 

484K 


large  purchases  in  Germany,  and  was  able  to  add  a  thousand 
books  a  year.  Professor  Churchill  came  to  teach  elocution. 

The  new  stone  chapel  of  Gothic  architecture  with  its  stained 
glass  windows  and  symbolic  signs  on  the  front  of  the  building 
greatly  improved  the  appearance  of  the  campus  and  provided 
needed  accommodations  for  the  Seminary  church.  The  low 
walls  and  high  roof  gave  it  dignity,  the  three  aisles  and  absence 
of  pillars  made  an  impression  of  spaciousness,  the  ash  fur- 
nishings relieved  pulpit  and  pews  and  screen  from  gloominess  ; 
and  the  tastefully  tinted  walls  with  their  soft  shades  and  bands 
of  deeper  color  contributed  to  an  atmosphere  of  restful  wor- 
ship. The  old  chapel  had  had  bare  white  walls,  high-backed 
pews  with  doors,  and  an  old-fashioned  box  pulpit.  The  old 
recitation  rooms  were  dingy  and  ill- ventilated,  and  their  desks 
were  defaced  by  pencils  and  jackknives  in  the  hands  of  rest- 
less students.  Now  Bartlet  Chapel  was  renovated  to  provide 
larger  and  airier  rooms,  and  steam  fixtures  were  installed  for 
heating.  Dormitor\'  rooms  were  furnished  in  modern  fashion. 
A  laundry  and  a  bath-house  were  erected.  New  professors' 
houses  were  added. 

By  1877  eight  professors  were  on  the  roll ;  lectures  on 
Egyptology  and  on  the  relations  of  physiology  to  religious 
experience  showed  a  recognition  of  the  value  of  many  sub- 
jects to  a  theological  student;  the  Faculty  was  learning  to 
adjust  its  instruction  to  the  new  demands,  yet  the  old  cur- 
riculum was  changed  little.  Exegesis  was  still  the  normal 
grist  of  the  first  year,  dogmatic  theology  of  the  second,  and 
homiletics  or  history  of  the  third.  And  the  number  of  stu- 
dents continued  to  decline  in  spite  of  all  the  improvements. 
In  1867  there  had  been  one  hundred  and  fifteen ;  ten  years 
later  the  number  had  fallen  to  seventy-three. 

Andover  Seminary  had  reached  threescore  years  and  ten. 
Was  it  sufficient  to  dress  itself  in  new  habiliments  and  to  re- 
furbish the  instruments  of  its  craft?  The  world  of  thought 
had  been  changing,  but  Andover  still  kept  its  Hopkinsian  the- 
ology. Was  it  time  for  a  new  interpretation  of  religion  ?  Were 
the  tides  of  modernism  to  undermine  the  ancient  bulwarks? 
Time  alone  could  tell.  And  time  did  not  wait. 

<S5y 


CHAPTER    V 

ANDOVER  MEN  IN  THE  PARISH  MINISTRY 

A  N DOVER  was  founded  for  the  distinct  purpose  of  pre- 
>A  paring  men  for  the  parish  ministry.  At  that  time  the 
ji.  JL  prestige  of  the  Trinitarian  Congregationalists  was  at 
stake.  The  Unitarians  had  the  advantage  of  Harvard  instruc- 
tion and  the  Harvard  reputation.  Unless  the  Trinitarians 
could  establish  a  theological  school  that  would  attract  young 
men  of  ability,  and  year  after  year  could  supply  the  Congre- 
gational churches  with  orthodox  leaders  who  were  able  to 
measure  swords  successfully  in  doctrinal  controversy  when 
need  arose,  they  would  be  worsted  in  the  competition  of  the 
two  theological  parties. 

There  were  in  Massachusetts  alone  nearly  three  hundred 
and  fifty  Congregational  churches  about  the  year  1800.  Of 
these  nearly  one  hundred  withdrew  from  the  evangelical 
ranks,  depriving  orthodoxy  of  church  property  valued  at  more 
than  $600,000.  In  Boston  the  only  Trinitarian  Congregational 
churches  were  the  Old  South  and  the  new  Park  Street.  Yet 
in  spite  of  these  serious  losses  there  were  scores  of  important 
churches  which  were  looking  to  the  Seminary  for  pastors. 
It  was  these  men  who,  often  through  long  pastorates,  built 
patiently  to  restore  the  vigor  and  strength  of  earlier  days. 
Hardly  had  the  Congregational  churches  begun  to  recover  be- 
fore all  denominations  were  placed  on  an  equality  before  the 
law.  This  threw  the  material  support  completely  upon  the 
members  of  the  churches  at  a  time  when  they  were  losing  so 
heavily.  But  it  was  in  line  with  the  tendency  of  the  period 
to  destroy  privilege  and  to  compel  every  group  and  organiza- 
tion to  stand  on  its  own  feet.  Baptists  were  increasing  rapidly 
with  the  growth  of  religious  interest  which  attended  the  inter- 
mittent revivals,  attracting  many  of  the  townspeople,  though 

isey 


the  principle  of  voluntary  support  for  churches  and  ministers 
required  pecuniary  sacrifices.  Episcopalians  were  luring  away 
some  who  felt  the  appeal  of  order  and  beauty  in  church  wor- 
ship. Methodists  were  planting  their  chapels  on  the  village 
borders  or  out  in  the  open  country.  And  the  Unitarians  now 
were  on  the  side  of  those  who  wanted  equal  rights  in  religion. 

It  was  with  these  handicaps  that  the  youthful  graduates  of 
Andover  undertook  the  task  of  carrying  New  England  Con- 
gregationalism to  the  old  position  of  leadership  once  more. 
Some  of  them  had  meagre  resources.  Josiah  Peet,  who  grad- 
uated in  the  second  class  at  Andover,  found  a  place  of  ministry 
at  Norridgewock,  Maine.  Because  the  church  was  poor  he 
spent  half  his  time  preaching  as  a  home  missionary  in  the  out- 
lying communities.  But  when  the  people  of  Norridgewock 
found  that  Unitarianism  was  making  inroads  locally,  the 
church  saw  that  it  must  exert  itself  and  increased  the  minis- 
ter's salary  enough  so  that  it  could  claim  three-quarters  of 
his  time.  This  new  effort  resulted  in  a  revival  which  brought 
forty  new  members  into  the  church,  and  Peet  remained  with 
the  Norridgewock  church  for  a  pastorate  of  thirty-eight  years. 
Out  of  the  church  went  four  young  men  to  enter  the  ranks 
of  the  ministry. 

It  was  from  such  country  churches  that  the  Seminary  ob- 
tained most  of  its  recruits,  and  to  them  that  most  of  the 
students  went  upon  graduation.  Jacob  Ide  of  the  third  class 
went  to  a  pastorate  at  West  Medway  in  1814,  was  made  a 
trustee  of  Amherst  and  was  honored  with  the  degree  of  doctor 
of  divinity  by  Brown,  but  he  held  only  the  one  rural  pastorate 
throughout  a  long  life. 

Men  like  these  made  little  noise  in  the  world.  They  were 
content  to  minister  faithfully  where  farmers  toiled  in  the  fields 
and  artisans  in  their  little  backyard  shops.  They  were  the  first 
citizens  in  the  community,  respected  by  the  children  whom 
they  had  baptized  and  perhaps  married  twenty  years  later. 
They  grew  gray  among  the  people  to  whom  they  ministered, 
the  only  pastor  that  many  of  their  parishioners  ever  knew. 
Such  men  did  not  need  the  spur  of  new  scenes,  the  stimulus 
of  a  better  folk.    Like  Charles  Kingsley  at  Eversley,  they 

i87y 


built  themselves  into  the  community  where  they  had  found 
a  home,  and  made  the  place  richer  because  of  their  presence. 

Now  and  then  a  graduate  of  Andover  attained  to  a  place 
of  large  influence  because  of  his  personal  ability  or  the  dis- 
tinction of  the  church  or  community.  Richard  Salter  Storrs 
was  in  Andover's  first  class,  going  the  next  year  to  the  church 
in  Braintree,  far  enough  from  Boston  then  to  remain  a  coun- 
try village.  Himself  the  son  of  a  father  who  was  minister  in 
Longmeadow  for  a  generation,  he  became  the  father  in  his 
turn  of  a  still  more  noteworthy  son,  Dr.  Richard  Salter  Storrs 
of  Brooklyn,  New  York.  The  church  at  Braintree  kept  its 
pastor  for  a  lifelong  service  of  sixty-two  years,  except  for 
an  interim  of  five  years  when  his  chief  attention  was  given  to 
his  duties  as  secretary  of  the  Home  Mission  Society  in  Massa- 
chusetts. Men  were  born,  grew  up,  turned  gray,  and  died 
while  he  was  there.  Shy  maidens  stood  before  him  for  a 
marriage  blessing,  brought  their  babies  to  him  for  baptism, 
and  saw  those  children  grow  to  maturity  and  become  mothers 
before  his  task  was  done.  The  name  of  Storrs  is  revered  still 
in  the  old  church  in  Braintree,  with  a  feeling  of  pride  that  the 
great  Brooklyn  preacher  was  a  boy  in  the  Old  Colony  of 
Massachusetts. 

When  the  Seminary  at  Andover  was  looking  for  a  professor 
to  succeed  Eliphalet  Pearson,  it  chose  Moses  Stuart,  minister 
of  the  First  Church  in  New  Haven.  When  sixteen  years  later 
that  pulpit  was  vacant  again,  the  church  called  Leonard  Bacon 
to  its  pastorate  on  recommendation  of  Professor  Stuart. 
Under  the  shadow  of  Yale  College  the  First  Church  pulpit 
was  a  platform  of  power.  Bacon  had  graduated  from  Andover 
a  scant  two  years  before,  but  he  proved  equal  to  the  exacting 
demands  of  the  position.  One-fourth  of  the  members  voted 
against  him  when  the  question  of  the  call  was  before  them. 
Only  twenty-three  years  old,  he  was  expected  to  fill  the  shoes 
of  Moses  Stuart  and  Nathaniel  W.  Ta3dor,  the  eminent  theo- 
logian who  went  from  that  pulpit  into  the  Yale  faculty.  Sev- 
eral of  the  prominent  members  of  the  church,  including  a 
United  States  senator,  later  called  upon  the  youthful  pastor 
to  suggest  that  his  sermons  were  not  up  to  their  level.  "  Gentle- 

<{88f 


men,"  was  his  reply,  **they  shall  be  made  worthy."  Within 
three  years  he  was  preaching  with  complete  acceptance.  Be- 
fore long  he  was  marked  as  a  man  upon  whose  shoulders 
might  safely  be  placed  heavy  denominational  responsibilities, 
and  he  found  time  to  write  and  to  speak  on  public  platforms. 
The  pulpit  was  his  for  fifty-seven  years.  During  that  period 
he  found  time  to  write  history,  to  compose  hymns  as  well  as 
sermons,  to  aid  in  founding  and  to  edit  the  Independent, 
and  to  fill  the  position  of  editor  of  the  New  Englander.  He 
debated  on  public  questions  in  his  own  city  and  elsewhere. 
When  the  Congregationalists  experimented  with  more  unified 
denominational  organization,  he  was  an  active  leader  at  the 
Albany  Convention  in  1852,  at  Boston  in  1865,  and  at  Oberlin 
when  the  National  Council  was  organized  in  1871.  He  was 
president  of  the  Church  Building  Society.  At  the  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  Seminary  at  Andover  he  was  the  one  to 
recount  the  history  of  the  half  century.  With  all  the  rest  he 
helped  to  rear  a  son  worthy  to  rank  with  himself  as  a  Congre- 
gational leader,  Leonard  Woolsey  Bacon,  class  of  1854  at 
Andover,  pastor  in  Brooklyn,  Baltimore,  and  Philadelphia, 
compiler  of  a  popular  hymn-book,  and  author  of  the  "History 
of  American  Christianity." 

The  reputation  of  Andover  drew  certain  students  from  a 
long  distance.  Congregationalists  had  found  their  home  in 
New  England,  and  it  was  not  to  be  expected  that  their  school 
would  reach  many  in  the  West  or  the  South.  The  settlement 
of  New  Englanders  in  New  York  and  Ohio  resulted  in  a  small 
contingent  of  students  from  those  states,  and  Presbyterians 
from  New  York  and  New  Jersey  found  their  way  eastward. 
An  interesting  case  of  a  southerner  is  that  of  George  Wash- 
ington Kelly,  who  from  Lewisburg,  Virginia,  caught  a  vision 
of  what  Andover  might  do  for  him,  and  on  the  fourteenth  of 
October,  1830,  started  from  the  land  of  his  nativity  on  the 
arduous  journey  north.  Because  he  kept  a  diary  and  an  ac- 
count of  his  expenses  it  is  possible  to  follow  him  on  his  way. 
Country  roads  at  best  were  not  smooth  highways,  and  in  the 
South  the  usual  manner  of  travel  was  by  horseback.  Many  a 
road  and  a  bridge  was  built  by  subscription,  and  tolls  were 

<{89f 


charged  for  maintenance.  A  day's  journey  was  limited  to  the 
condition  of  the  roads  and  the  endurance  of  the  horse,  and  the 
traveler  must  allow  considerable  sums  for  overnight  lodging. 
Fortunately  Kelly  found  accommodations  at  country  inns  for 
thirty-seven  and  a  half  cents,  but  frequent  tolls  cost  him 
twelve  and  a  half  cents  each.  He  delayed  his  progress  at 
Baltimore,  where  he  stayed  three  days  and  four  nights.  Balti- 
more was  a  considerable  town  and  his  total  expenditure  of 
$5.75  was  probably  not  excessive.  It  would  be  interesting  to 
know  what  detained  him  so  long  when  Andover  classes  had 
commenced  their  fall  sessions  already,  but  he  did  not  record 
the  reasons.  Perhaps  it  took  time  to  sell  his  horse,  for  from 
that  point  he  traveled  by  boat  to  New  York.  Passage  to  Phila- 
delphia took  four  dollars  from  his  purse,  and  it  cost  him  fifty 
cents  to  lodge  there.  From  Philadelphia  to  New  York  five 
dollars  more  disappeared.  A  day  in  New  York  cost  him  one 
dollar.  The  trip  from  New  York  to  Boston  was  the  most 
expensive  of  all,  and  the  stage  fare  from  Boston  to  Andover 
was  $2.25.  His  total  outlay  amounted  to  $35.86,  a  consider- 
able sum  at  a  time  when  a  dollar  had  far  greater  purchasing 
power  than  at  present. 

Kelly's  account  book  throws  a  sidelight  on  a  student's  re- 
quirements at  the  Seminary.  Faithfully  he  records  the  items. 
Books  were  necessary  and  expensive.  He  paid  two  dollars 
for  a  Hebrew  grammar  and  $5.25  for  a  Greek  and  English 
lexicon.  Thirty  cents  went  for  a  bucket,  twenty-two  for  a 
quart  of  oil.  A  razor  and  hone  cost  him  eighty-two  cents,  a 
box  of  blacking  and  soap  18^  cents,  half  an  ounce  of  wafers 
six  cents.  To  send  a  letter  deprived  him  of  twenty-five  cents. 
A  troublesome  flue  required  an  outlay  of  six  cents ;  one  yard 
of  green  baize  cost  thirty  cents.  A  cord  of  wood  cost  four  dol- 
lars, but  he  got  along  with  an  apron  that  took  only  1214  cents 
of  his  rapidly  dwindling  hoard.  Apples  at  121^  cents  a  peck 
and  molasses  at  thirteen  cents  for  three  pints  made  pan  dowdy 
possible.  It  cost  him  twenty  cents  to  get  a  flannel  shirt  made, 
and  12^  cents  for  charity  to  a  room  sweeper.  Literary  ma- 
terial was  as  necessary  as  food  for  the  body.  Sixteen  cents 
went  to  pay  for  two  sermons,  and  37>4  cents  for  a  copy  of 


Doddridge's  "Rise  and  Progress."  He  paid  two  dollars  for 
instruction  in  Hebrew,  doubtless  to  make  up  for  his  late 
arrival,  and  twenty-five  cents  was  his  contribution  for  mis- 
sionaries to  the  Sandwich  Islands. 

Andover  paid  its  debts  for  men  like  Kelly  by  sending  certain 
of  her  graduates  to  the  South.  George  Howe,  a  Massachusetts 
boy  and  a  graduate  of  Andover  in  1825,  commenced  a  teaching 
career  of  fifty  years  in  a  Presbyterian  seminary  in  Columbia, 
South  Carolina.  Writing  in  1845,  he  speaks  of  his  attachment 
to  the  region  in  spite  of  numerous  trials  and  discouragements, 
and  a  different  state  of  society  from  that  in  which  he  had  been 
brought  up.  In  the  farther  perspective  he  sees  faults  even  in 
his  own  New  England.  He  is  fully  conscious  of  the  needs  of 
the  South,  and  he  does  his  best  to  induce  young  men  of  promise 
to  study  for  the  ministry,  because  of  the  serious  lack  of  those 
who  would  take  the  time  to  prepare  properly.  He  published 
two  appeals,  conscious  of  the  many  difficulties  which  those 
who  were  educated  at  the  North  could  not  understand  rela- 
tive to  seminary  attendance,  and  he  had  the  satisfaction  of 
teaching  one  hundred  and  eighteen  students  in  fourteen  years, 
most  of  whom  became  active  pastors  and  a  few  missionaries. 

The  old  custom  of  students  studying  with  pastors  did  not 
pass  with  the  advent  of  seminaries,  and  Andover  alumni  had 
their  part  in  that  practice.  John  Todd  of  the  class  of  1825 
had  five  such  apprentices  at  different  times,  and  it  gave  him 
satisfaction  to  know  that  they  were  all  doing  well.  The  report 
which  he  sent  to  his  class  at  the  end  of  twenty  years  from 
graduation  is  typical  of  a  large  number  of  Andover  alumni. 
He  wrote  freely  to  his  classmates,  not  boastfully,  but  with 
gratitude  to  God  that  he  had  been  able  to  help  in  building  up 
the  Kingdom.  He  had  had  a  part  in  the  erection  of  three 
meetinghouses.  His  direct  influence  had  brought  a  thousand 
dollars  annually  from  his  churches  into  the  treasury  of  the 
American  Board.  He  had  attended  denominational  asso- 
ciations and  had  spoken  on  their  platforms.  Habitually  he 
preached  three  times  on  Sunday  and  led  not  less  than  two 
meetings  during  the  week.  He  had  failed  to  accumulate  much 
money  since  he  had  married,  but  he  was  about  even  with  the 

^9U 


world.  Incidentally  he  had  paid  the  support  of  a  demented 
mother  for  sixteen  years.  He  thanked  Providence  for  habit- 
ual health  and  for  "mercies  from  heaven  far  more  than  I 
deserve,"  and  he  appreciated  a  doctor's  degree  and  an  election 
to  the  board  of  trustees  of  WiUiams  College.  His  pastorates 
included  the  Edwards  Church  at  Northampton,  the  First  Con- 
gregational Church  in  Philadelphia,  and  thirty  years  of  active 
service  at  Pittsfield,  Massachusetts. 

Many  an  Andover  man  knew  hardship  both  during  and  after 
his  years  of  study.  Under  the  impulse  of  a  sturdy  conscience, 
stimulated  perhaps  by  the  pastor  of  a  rural  church,  a  country 
boy  dreamed  of  college  and  a  theological  seminary,  and  was 
willing  to  endure  hardness  if  he  might  reach  his  goal.  He 
might  get  little  but  hard  knocks,  yet  the  limitless  opportunity 
for  service  appealed  to  him. 

Such  was  John  Spaulding  of  the  class  of  1828.  Growing 
up  in  a  country  hamlet,  he  was  able  in  time  to  get  to  Phillips 
Academy  in  Andover,  "having  only  thirty  dollars,  one  suit  of 
clothes,  no  books,  and  none  but  God  to  look  to  for  aid."  He 
made  his  way  through  ten  years  of  study  at  the  Academy,  at 
Middlebury  College,  and  at  Andover  Seminary,  and  in  that 
time  he  spent  only  $1,427.14.  For  four  months  in  five  succes- 
sive winters  he  taught  school,  and  he  received  some  aid  from 
the  American  Education  Society,  which  he  repaid,  and  some 
from  friends.  But  it  was  mainly  by  keeping  his  expenses  down 
to  the  lowest  point  that  he  was  able  to  continue  his  long  years 
of  preparation.  "These  hands,"  he  declared,  "ministered  to 
my  necessities"  with  the  woodsaw,  the  sickle,  the  scythe,  the 
axe  and  the  hoe.  "These  legs  ministered  to  my  locomotion  to 
and  from  college ;  and  seldom  through  the  whole  course  of 
my  studies  did  I  feel  justified  for  spending  a  single  hard- 
earned  shilling  for  a  ride.  My  arrival  at  college  was  amidst 
a  cold  rain  storm  in  September.  My  room  was  furnished  with 
nothing  save  an  unwoven  carpet  of  mother  earth  on  its  floor ; 
which  a  few  buckets  of  water  and  a  broom  greatly  improved. 
A  few  shillings  furnished  a  bedstead  and  cord  ;  and  the  bundle 
containing  my  whole  wardrobe,  which  had  been  my  traveling 
companion  all  the  way  from  Massachusetts,  though  wet  by 

A92y 


the  storm,  furnished  a  pillow.  On  that  cord,  in  that  wet  room, 
the  almost  moneyless,  supperless,  and  cover-less  student 
stretched  himself  for  his  first  night  in  college.  But  it  was  en- 
tering College  !  and  that  was  an  acquisition  worth  more  to  him 
than  the  conquest  of  Mexico  with  all  of  Texas  would  be  now." 

Many  a  country  minister  found  it  necessary  to  work  harder 
at  manual  labor  than  in  his  study.  Joseph  Bennett,  of  the  class 
of  1 82 1,  could  say  a  quarter  of  a  century  later  that  in  the 
twenty-four  years  since  he  had  left  Andover  he  had  been  able 
to  preach  every  Sunday  but  one,  and  on  an  average  five  times 
a  week,  had  made  pastoral  calls  on  four  hundred  families  once 
a  year,  had  attended  one  hundred  church  councils,  and  had 
always  attended  Commencement  at  Andover,  and  the  anni- 
versaries in  Boston ;  besides  these  duties  that  belonged  to  his 
profession  he  had  exercised  three  hours  a  day  in  the  open  air, 
for  twenty  years  had  felled  trees  in  the  woods  and  had  cut  up 
the  timber  in  the  yard  with  the  help  of  his  son,  enough  for 
three  fires,  had  mowed,  raked,  and  pitched  five  tons  of  hay 
every  year  for  his  horse  and  cow,  and  had  taken  care  of  the 
animals  and  of  his  garden.  In  that  time  he  had  admitted  to 
the  church  by  profession  seven  hundred  and  eighty-two  per- 
sons, had  brought  up  two  children,  "both  pious,"  and  the  son 
preparing  for  the  ministry,  and  had  raised  twenty  thousand 
dollars  to  found  an  academy  and  to  build  meetinghouses. 

The  country  churches  depended  on  revivals  for  most  of  their 
accessions  to  membership.  Again  and  again  men  wrote  for 
their  class  report  a  record  of  scores  and  hundreds  received 
into  their  churches  by  these  special  efforts.  They  shared  in 
the  special  revival  seasons  of  1837  and  1857,  and  they  had 
their  own  special  awakenings  locally. 

Classes  adopted  the  custom,  even  in  comparatively  early 
years,  of  collecting  information  from  each  member  at  the  end 
of  a  certain  period  of  years  and  printing  the  reports  in  a 
pamphlet  for  the  benefit  of  all.  Certain  of  the  classes  were 
distinguished  by  members  who  had  gained  eminence.  Such 
was  the  class  of  18 19.  Bingham  and  Thurston  were  mission- 
aries to  Hawaii,  King  to  Greece,  Byington  to  the  Choctaws. 
Smith,   Wheeler,  and  Wayland  became  college  presidents; 

i93y 


Ripley,  Torrey,  Warner,  and  Haddock  were  professors. 
Orville  Dewey  became  a  prominent  Unitarian  minister.  The 
class  of  1857  at  graduation  met  in  "Uncle  Sam's"  recitation 
room  in  Phillips  Academy  for  its  class  supper.  After  supper 
they  took  one  another  into  their  confidence.  ''  Every  man  be- 
trayed himself,"  runs  the  record,  ''told  all  he  knew;  whether 
he  was  engaged  or  not,  and  to  whom ;  whether  he  had  a  call, 
and  where,  etc.,  etc.  It  was  a  merry  time.  School  days  were 
over.  No  more  bells  to  prayers  and  recitations.  Work,  waiting, 
reward,  these  were  before  us.  We  went  out  to  the  first,  to  wait 
for  the  last,  with  a  vote  to  meet  in  ten  years." 

The  class  of  1855  numbered  thirty-nine.  Abbe,  Anthony, 
Colby,  Fay,  Foster,  Loomis,  Patten,  Smith,  and  Webber,  were 
pastors  in  Massachusetts.  Moore  and  Ray  settled  in  Vermont, 
Pratt  in  Connecticut,  Bates  in  New  York,  and  Grassie  in 
Pennsylvania.  Two  were  in  the  United  States  army  during 
the  Civil  War.  One  was  made  consul  to  Newcastle-on-Tyne 
in  England  by  President  Lincoln.  One  became  an  Episco- 
palian. Hurlbut  and  Shaw  had  honorable  careers  as  home 
missionary  pastors,  one  in  Nebraska  and  the  other  in  Michigan. 
Two  members  of  the  class  became  college  presidents,  Bascom 
of  the  University  of  Wisconsin,  after  nearly  twenty  years  as 
professor  of  rhetoric  at  Williams ;  the  other,  Boardman,  who 
after  a  similar  professorship  at  Middlebury  and  two  pastor- 
ates, became  president  of  Maryville  College,  Tennessee.  Two 
other  members  occupied  professorial  chairs,  ]\Iarsh  at  the 
University  of  Vermont,  and  Mooar  at  the  Pacific  Theological 
Seminary.  Aiken,  Allen,  Barnum,  Bliss,  Knapp,  and  Leonard, 
were  all  missionaries  of  the  American  Board,  the  last  four  for 
long  terms  of  service  in  the  Turkish  Empire.  Strong,  after 
nineteen  years  of  pastoral  service  near  Boston,  served  for 
more  than  thirty  years  as  editorial  secretary  of  the  American 
Board. 

It  is  alumni  records  like  these  that  gave  Andover  Seminary 
its  eminence.  The  class  of  1855  was  not  especially  distin- 
guished. It  can  be  duplicated  more  than  once.  The  class  of 
1858  presents  a  wide  variety  of  service.  Baldwin  was  a  pastor 
of  Congregational  and  Presbyterian  churches,  chiefly  in  the 

-{94f 


Middle  West.  Batt  was  long  time  chaplain  of  the  Massa- 
chusetts Reformatory  at  Concord.  Bliss  was  secretary  of  the 
New  West  Education  Commission,  as  Hamilton  was  of  the 
American  College  and  Education  Society.  Chamberlain  was  in 
the  Christian  Commission  of  Sherman's  Army,  and  later  in 
life  an  editor  and  chaplain  of  the  Legislature  in  Iowa.  Charles 
W.  Clark  spent  thirty  years  of  parish  ministry  in  the  Vermont 
town  where  he  was  born.  James  F.  Clarke  was  for  fifty  years 
a  missionary  to  Bulgaria,  where  he  became  principal  of  an 
institute,  translator  of  textbooks,  and  an  active  agent  in  relief 
work  for  Bulgarian  refugees.  Anketell,  Brown,  Cruikshanks, 
Dickinson,  Emerson,  Fellows,  were  parish  ministers.  Fenn 
was  minister  of  the  High  Street  Church,  Portland,  Maine,  for 
thirty-eight  years.  Goodell,  as  pastor  of  the  Pilgrim  Church 
in  St.  Louis  for  thirteen  years,  had  a  powerful  influence  in 
the  Mississippi  Valley.  Howard  was  an  army  chaplain; 
McGinley,  a  member  of  the  Christian  Commission  at  Antietam 
and  Gettysburg.  Meriam  was  murdered  by  brigands  in  Tur- 
key. Jameson  became  supervisor  of  Emerson  College  of 
Oratory  in  Boston ;  Norton,  superintendent  of  a  ladies'  college 
at  Evanston,  Illinois ;  and  Orton,  professor  of  natural  history 
at  Vassar.  Parker  and  Pike  were  country  ministers,  and 
Plumb  had  a  long  pastorate  of  thirty-five  years  at  the  Walnut 
Avenue  Church  in  Roxbury,  where  he  saw  an  attractive  sub- 
urb become  a  ward  of  Boston,  in  which  the  people  of  foreign 
ancestry  displaced  most  of  the  American  stock.  Perkins  tried 
being  a  secretary  for  the  American  Tract  Society  and  the 
Home  Missionary  Society  for  Colorado ;  Upham  was  for 
eleven  years  the  secretary  of  the  Presbyterian  Ministers'  Fund 
in  Philadelphia.  Thwing  was  a  professor,  Torrey  a  pastor  in 
Maine,  Twombly  went  to  Honolulu,  where  he  published  books. 
Todd  had  an  eleven  years'  pastorate  in  Boston  and  then  one 
of  twenty-one  years  in  New  Haven.  Washburn  was  president 
of  the  Pasumalai  Theological  Seminary  in  India  for  twenty- 
two  years,  and  then  was  president  of  the  college  there  for 
nineteen  years  more.  Willard  was  in  home  mission  service. 
Young,  after  an  apprenticeship  of  ten  years  of  college  teach- 
ing in  the  Western  Reserve  University,  and  a  term  of  army 

-{95h 


service  as  captain  of  an  Ohio  company  of  volunteers,  became  a 
noted  professor  of  astronomy  at  Dartmouth  and  Princeton 
for  a  combined  term  of  nearly  forty  years. 
/  Some  of  the  ministers  specialized  in  particular  departments 
of  Christian  service.  A  century  ago  when  Sunday  schools  were 
in  their  infancy,  Jacob  Little,  who  graduated  from  Andover 
about  the  time  that  the  American  Sunday  School  Union  was 
organized,  made  Bible  classes  his  chief  concern  in  Granville, 
Ohio,  where  he  was  minister  of  the  Congregational  church 
for  thirty-seven  years.  He  studied  his  own  lessons  by  using 
a  round  table  on  which  he  laid  his  Bible,  with  commentaries 
lying  on  the  outer  edge.  It  was  a  revolving  table  built  for 
his  convenience,  and  with  its  assistance  he  went  through  the 
New  Testament  and  a  part  of  the  Old,  taking  about  a  day  for 
the  study  of  a  single  chapter.  He  held  sessions  of  two  classes 
on  alternate  Sunday  evenings,  one  in  the  village  and  another 
on  the  outskirts.  His  scholars  were  over  fourteen  years  old 
and  were  admitted  to  the  classes  only  as  they  agreed  to  attend 
for  a  term  of  from  three  to  six  months.  It  was  no  vacation 
Bible  school,  or  the  experiment  of  a  year.  The  number  of 
scholars  increased  from  sixty  to  two  hundred  and  twelve  in 
the  course  of  seven  years.  Two-thirds  of  them  were  men  and 
boys.  The  educational  process  resulted  in  many  conversions. 
Parents  saw  to  it  that  their  children  learned  the  selections  from 
Scripture  that  they  were  expected  to  commit  to  memory,  and 
in  eighteen  years  "all  but  a  sixth  of  them  became  pious." 

Alumni  of  later  years  have  had  more  opportunities  in  city 
parishes  than  did  the  men  of  an  earlier  day.  Over  a  long  period 
of  time  in  a  prominent  pulpit  individual  ministers  made  a  mark 
for  themselves,  either  because  they  were  able  to  build  up  a 
strong  church  or  because  they  identified  themselves  with  a 
civic  cause.  Some  of  them  found  special  methods  useful  as 
means  of  advance.  Such  a  man  was  Frederick  A.  Noble.  Born 
in  Maine,  educated  at  Phillips  Academy  and  Yale  College,  im- 
bibing theology  at  Andover  and  Lane  Seminaries,  he  divided 
his  ministry  between  the  Presbyterians  and  the  Congregation- 
alists.  After  thirteen  years  in  St.  Paul  and  Pittsburgh  and  then 
four  years  at  New  Haven,  he  reached  the  climax  of  his  min- 


istry  in  a  twenty-two  year  pastorate  of  Union  Park  Church, 
Chicago.  It  was  his  health  that  sent  him  West,  but  he  did  the 
work  of  a  strong  man  in  all  his  churches.  He  was  a  leader 
in  the  van  of  such  modern  movements  as  the  recognition  of 
young  people  in  the  church,  the  use  of  the  catechetical  method 
with  children  as  a  part  of  his  annual  program,  the  more 
efficient  organization  of  the  church  and  the  denomination.  He 
was  elected  a  delegate  from  Connecticut  to  a  National  Council 
meeting  in  Detroit  when  no  one  else  in  his  Association  was 
enthusiastic  enough  about  the  Council  to  go.  He  believed  in 
church  representation  on  the  foreign  field,  in  the  value  of  dea- 
conesses in  the  local  church.  He  was  chaplain  of  the  Minnesota 
senate,  and  he  recognized  the  civic  obligation  of  the  church. 
He  found  time  to  study  and  write  upon  Puritan  history. 

Alexander  Mackenzie  settled  nearer  his  alma  mater  and  kept 
an  affectionate  interest  in  it.  His  personal  worth  was  tested 
by  his  long  pastorate  of  forty-three  years  in  the  Shepard 
Memorial  Church  in  Cambridge.  He  could  not  have  remained 
there  so  long  under  the  very  shadow  of  Harvard  College  had 
he  not  been  able  to  defend  a  staunch  theology  of  his  own  or 
to  harmonize  his  teaching  with  the  best  thought  of  his  day. 
In  reality  he  was  liberal  in  his  point  of  view,  but  he  had  inner 
qualities  of  spirit  that  kept  him  from  becoming  unevangelical. 
He  had  the  mystical  temperament,  a  poetic  imagination,  a  culti- 
vated and  fluent  speech  in  the  pulpit,  and  he  had  the  reputation 
of  being  one  of  the  great  preachers  among  the  Congrega- 
tionalists.  His  good  judgment  made  his  services  sought  as 
trustee  of  several  educational  institutions,  including  Andover 
Seminary. 

Another  minister  who  gained  a  reputation  far  beyond  his 
own  parish  was  Amory  H.  Bradford.  Like  Mackenzie,  he 
had  a  great  church  back  of  him  in  a  community  that  held  high 
rank  in  wealth  and  culture.  Like  Noble,  he  was  given  prefer- 
ment among  his  ministerial  brethren  by  being  elected  moder- 
ator of  the  National  Council,  but  these  advantages  could  not 
have  been  his  had  he  not  shown  a  consummate  ability  which 
warranted  the  confidence  of  those  who  knew  him.  He  was  a 
product  of  two  seminaries,  Auburn  and  Andover,  where  he 

^97y 


was  at  one  time  Southworth  lecturer.  He  had  the  advantage 
of  a  period  of  study  at  Oxford,  which  he  enjoyed  when  on 
furlough  from  his  church.  For  seven  years  he  was  able  to 
give  part  of  his  time  to  editorial  writing  on  the  Outlook,  and 
he  ventured  now  and  then  into  authorship,  but  his  main  task 
was  a  pastoral  one,  and  his  people  at  Montclair,  New  Jersey, 
kept  him  as  their  minister  for  the  major  part  of  half  a  century. 
Long  pastorates  are  no  mystery  when  the  man  fits  the  job. 
Bradford  at  Montclair  fitted  like  a  glove  to  the  hand. 

One  minister  found  Finns  in  his  parish  territory,  and  was 
so  interested  in  doing  them  good  that  he  learned  enough  of 
their  language  to  conduct  their  baptisms,  marriages,  and 
funerals  in  their  tongue,  greatly  to  their  satisfaction.  That 
made  it  possible  to  organize  a  Sunday  School  for  them,  with 
occasional  preaching  services  and  a  night  school.  A  number 
of  ministers,  with  the  new  social  consciousness  in  their  hearts 
and  minds,  interested  themselves  in  problems  of  industry  as 
others  were  devoted  to  temperance  or  organized  charity. 
Charles  A.  Dickinson  in  Boston  made  Berkeley  Temple  one 
of  the  earliest  and  best  known  institutional  churches  in  the 
United  States.  A  country  minister  in  New  Hampshire  found 
that  the  local  grange  was  not  a  helpful  influence,  but  instead 
of  denouncing  it  he  organized  a  guild,  which  came  to  number 
two  hundred  and  twenty-five  members  and  to  prove  a  real 
asset  to  the  community,  and  in  particular  it  paid  the  rent  of 
a  house  for  the  minister  for  several  years.  A  Long  Island 
minister  was  among  the  first  to  try  the  method  of  answering 
questions  sent  in  during  the  week  at  a  Sunday  afternoon  ves- 
per service.  Charles  M.  Sheldon  in  Topeka,  Kansas,  wrote 
'*In  His  Steps,"  and  read  it  to  his  congregation;  it  sprang 
forthwith  into  fame,  and  went  around  the  world  in  sixteen 
dififerent  languages.  Francis  E.  Clark  brought  into  existence 
the  Christian  Endeavor  Society  as  a  local  young  people's 
organization  in  Williston  Church  in  Portland,  Maine.  It  was 
too  good  an  idea  to  localize,  too  useful  to  be  limited  to  a  single 
denomination  or  a  single  country.  It  too  went  around  the  world 
to  become  domesticated  everywhere. 

Over  against  this  worldwide  fame  stands  this  testimonial 

-{98)- 


after  a  pastorate  of  thirteen  years  in  the  rural  section  of  west- 
ern Massachusetts.  "Few  families  in  this  scattered  country 
parish  fail  to  attend  church.  Seventy-five  teams  sometimes 
jam  the  horse-sheds  of  a  pleasant  summer  Sunday.  A  class  of 
men  in  the  Sunday  School  has  at  times  numbered  seventy  to 
eighty,  and  nearly  the  entire  congregation  remains  for  study. 
The  pastor  has  given  much  help  to  the  library,  has  done  val- 
uable work  for  the  literary  club,  conducts  a  young  people's 
society  that  has  been  studying  China  recently,  preaches 
thoughtful  sermons,  and  has  found  time  to  serve  as  pastor"  of 
a  neighboring  church  since  the  death  of  its  minister.  This 
again  is  not  a  unique  record,  but  merely  one  of  many  that  have 
given  honor  to  Andover  and  confidence  in  the  alumni  who 
went  out  from  the  Hill. 

Long  pastorates  were  more  often  possible  in  the  country 
than  in  the  town,  though  in  either  case  the  length  of  service 
depended  partly  on  the  man  and  partly  on  the  people.  Some 
churches  grow  restive  under  the  guidance  of  the  best  of  men, 
until  like  Dives  they  would  not  repent  if  an  angel  were  sent 
unto  them.  Some  ministers  get  restless  in  the  best  churches, 
and  wander  from  place  to  place  seeking  satisfaction  and  find- 
ing none.  Occasionally  mere  lethargy  on  the  part  of  pastor 
and  people  accounts  for  a  record  of  pastoral  longevity,  but 
usually  a  ministry  of  two  or  three  decades  in  one  church  means 
real  worth  in  a  minister.  Andover  alumni  did  not  soon  exhaust 
their  sermonic  resources  or  have  recourse  to  the  bottom  of 
the  barrel.  They  knew  how  to  study  Scripture  and  problems 
in  theology.  They  became  seasoned  veterans  in  the  pulpit, 
trusted  leaders  in  the  churches,  respected  citizens  in  the  com- 
munity. It  is  not  strange  that  they  were  sought  as  chaplains 
in  legislatures  and  reformatories,  secretaries  for  philanthropic 
and  educational  organizations,  trustees  of  educational  institu- 
tions, speakers  on  public  forums.  To  be  an  Andover  man  was 
strong  recommendation  for  a  candidate  at  any  New  England 
church,  at  least  before  1880. 

It  would  be  possible  to  make  a  long  list  of  single  pastorates 
of  unusual  length,  like  Storrs,  Bradford,  and  Robie.  Edward 
Robie,  for  example,  completed  his  course  at  Andover  in  1843. 


Making  his  way  to  Europe  at  a  time  when  few  enjoyed  the 
privileges  of  foreign  study,  he  spent  three  years  at  the  uni- 
versities of  Halle  and  Berlin.  Returning  to  his  native  town 
at  Gorham,  Maine,  he  taught  in  the  seminary  there  for  two 
years,  and  then  was  appointed  instructor  in  sacred  literature 
at  Andover,  where  he  remained  four  years,  filling  the  place 
of  librarian  part  of  that  time.  In  the  year  1852  he  went  to 
Greenland,  New  Hampshire,  to  become  pastor  of  the  Congre- 
gational church.  He  had  found  his  niche,  and  there  he  was 
content  to  remain.  It  is  said  of  him  that  he  was  a  reader  of 
the  Youth's  Companion  for  eighty-five  ye&rs.  Though  a  coun- 
try pastor  he  was  given  the  degree  of  doctor  of  divinity  by 
Dartmouth  and  Bowdoin.  William  Salter  at  Burlington,  Iowa, 
for  more  than  sixty  years,  had  one  of  the  longest  pastorates 
in  the  history  of  American  Congregationalism.  At  the  unveil- 
ing of  his  portrait  in  the  state  capitol  of  Iowa,  the  Governor 
said :  "Men  of  his  character  and  of  his  class  are  the  men  who 
have  made  Iowa  what  she  is — a  great,  noble,  peerless,  Chris- 
tian commonwealth." 

Taken  at  random  the  annalist  notes  Darius  A.  Newton,  class 
of  '82,  more  than  twenty  years  at  Winchester,  Massachusetts  ; 
Stephen  M.  Newman,  class  of  '71,  pastor  of  the  First  Congre- 
gational Church,  Washington,  D.  C,  for  twenty-one  years ; 
Charles  H.  Cutler,  class  of  '86,  minister  at  Bangor  for  a  quar- 
ter of  a  century ;  Omar  W.  Folsom,  class  of  '72,  serving 
twenty-five  years  at  Bath,  Maine,  and  active  in  the  state  in 
missions  and  in  the  Interdenominational  Comity  Commission ; 
George  B.  Spalding,  class  of  '61,  after  succeeding  Horace 
Bushnell  at  Hartford,  went  to  Syracuse  where  he  built  a  new 
church  edifice,  remaining  twenty-five  years ;  Cyrus  H.  Rich- 
ardson, class  of  '69,  at  Nashua  longer  still ;  Charles  E.  Cool- 
edge,  class  of  '70,  at  Collinsville,  Connecticut,  for  an  equal 
length  of  time ;  James  B.  Gregg,  class  of  '74,  holding  an  out- 
post of  Congregationalism  at  Colorado  Springs,  Colorado, 
for  twenty-seven  years,  and  honored  with  the  degree  of  doctor 
of  divinity  by  Harvard  University ;  John  R.  Crane  of  the  first 
Andover  class  of  1810,  setting  an  example  of  long  pastorates 
at  Middletown,  Connecticut,  with  one  of  his  own  which  lasted 


thirty-five  years;  Lucius  R.  Eastman,  class  of  '6i,  pastor  of 
Plymouth  Church,  Framingham,  for  about  forty  years,  "cul- 
tured, devoted,  learned" ;  Charles  L.  Hall,  class  of  '74,  out  on 
the  northwestern  Indian  frontier  at  Fort  Berthold,  North 
Dakota,  for  approximately  forty  years ;  Joel  Haines,  class  of 
1817,  minister  at  Hartford  for  forty-six  years,  writing  "Lec- 
tures to  Young  Men"  and  other  books ;  William  R.  Campbell, 
pastor  for  fifty  changing  years  at  West  Roxbury,  Massa- 
chusetts, and  a  Visitor  of  Andover  Seminary. 

Among  city  pastors  whose  influence  was  deep  and  abiding 
were  a  number  of  other  alumni  who  graduated  from  Andover 
in  the  quarter  century  between  1868  and  1892.  DeWitt  C. 
Clarke  had  a  distinguished  ministry  in  the  Tabernacle  Church, 
Salem*  Charles  L.  Noyes  was  pastor  in  Somerville  forty 
years,  and  was  actively  engaged  in  civic  interests.  He  edited 
the  "Pilgrim  Hymnal,"  was  a  trustee  of  the  Seminary,  and 
was  an  active  participant  in  the  plans  of  removal  to  Cambridge. 
Charles  F.  Carter  is  remembered  at  Burlington,  Vermont,  and 
Hartford,  Connecticut.  He  was  president  of  the  Andover 
Trustees  at  the  time  of  removal.  Nehemiah  Boynton  of 
the  same  class  was  the  eminent  leader  of  Congregationalism 
in  Detroit  and  Brooklyn,  and  was  elected  moderator  of  the 
National  Council.  Carl  S.  Patton  had  pastoral  service  to  his 
credit  before  he  went  to  the  church  in  Columbus,  Ohio,  so  long 
served  by  Dr.  Washington  Gladden.  Two  subsequent  pastor- 
ates at  Los  Angeles  were  bisected  by  a  professorship  in 
Chicago  Theological  Seminary.  He,  too,  has  been  honored 
with  an  election  as  moderator  of  the  General  Council.  Fred- 
erick H.  Page,  after  a  journalistic  career  and  a  ministerial 
apprenticeship  in  Boston,  spent  many  years  with  churches  in 
Lawrence  and  Waltham,  and  then  was  promoted  to  be  presi- 
dent of  the  Massachusetts  Home  Missionary  Society.  As 
president  of  the  Trustees  of  the  Seminary  he  had  a  large  part 
in  the  planning  and  achieving  of  the  affiliation  of  Andover 
and  Newton. 

To  name  these  men  is  not  to  make  invidious  distinctions 
in  a  large  body  of  alumni.  They  are  but  samples,  a  few  more 
distinguished  than  the  average.  They  could  be  duplicated  more 

^lOU 


than  once  from  living  alumni  other  than  those  mentioned.  It 
is  enough  to  say  of  an  unnumbered  multitude :  They  wrought 
well  and  their  works  do  follow  them. 

Alumni  interest  was  stimulated  by  the  organization  of  an 
alumni  society  in  1827,  "for  the  purpose  of  holding  such 
meetings  and  performing  such  exercises  as  shall  be  promotive 
of  their  mutual  edification  and  the  prosperity  of  the  Re- 
deemer's kingdom."  The  Society  drew  up  a  constitution  which 
provided  for  an  annual  meeting  on  Anniversary  Week  at  the 
Seminary,  with  an  address  or  a  sermon.  Dr.  Storrs  was  chosen 
the  first  moderator.  Vexations  dogged  the  infant  organization. 
The  moderator  was  absent  when  the  Society  met  the  next 
year,  the  preacher  failed  to  appear  on  account  of  ill  health, 
and  the  alternate  because  he  was  not  given  ''sufficient  season- 
able notice."  With  but  a  single  meeting  a  year  it  required  some 
eflfort  to  keep  interest  in  the  Society  warm.  In  1834  a  com- 
mittee of  three  was  appointed  to  report  a  year  hence  on  the 
best  methods  for  producing  more  interest.  At  another  meet- 
ing a  standing  committee  was  charged  with  the  duty  of  pre- 
paring a  necrology  of  alumni  who  had  died  within  the  year 
at  the  next  annual  meeting,  but  it  failed  to  function.  Another 
committee  was  named  to  secure  portraits  of  Professors  Woods 
and  Porter  to  hang  beside  that  of  Stuart  in  the  library,  which 
students  and  friends  had  provided. 

Necrologies  were  prepared  after  1880,  but  the  same  diffi- 
culty of  lack  of  interest  prevailed  among  the  alumni.  The 
Association  was  reorganized  in  1895  on  a  more  definite  basis, 
with  an  annual  fee  of  one  dollar.  All  officers  of  the  Seminary, 
Trustees  and  Visitors,  were  eligible  as  members  besides  the 
alumni.  The  presidents  of  the  two  boards  set  the  example  by 
joining.  All  members  were  to  receive  the  annual  catalogue 
of  the  Seminary,  the  printed  necrology,  and  the  anniversary 
program.  Two  hundred  and  seventy  persons  were  listed  as 
members  in  1897,  and  three  hundred  and  twenty-eight  the  next 
year.  Professor  Park  held  the  honor  of  being  the  oldest  living 
graduate.  The  experiment  of  a  social  union  of  the  alumni  was 
held  for  a  second  time  in  Boston.  The  next  year  an  alumni 
fund  was  proposed,  which  should  be  devoted  first  to  a  new 

iiozy 


issue  of  the  General  Catalogue,  which  had  not  been  revised 
for  twenty  years.  The  Alumni  Association  was  reorganized 
in  that  same  year  of  1903. 

'  To  the  people  of  the  Atlantic  seaboard  the  West  spelled 
wider  opportunity.  America  had  meant  that  to  their  fathers 
who  came  from  Europe,  but  the  fertile  valleys  of  New  England 
were  few  and  the  Southern  plantations  were  the  property 
of  a  privileged  aristocracy.  With  an  expanding  population 
America  had  to  push  out  to  the  West.  It  was  not  only  this 
centrifugal  compulsion  that  drove,  but  an  attraction  that 
pulled.  The  West  called  to  profit  and  adventure.  Its  broad 
plains,  its  lofty  mountains,  its  majestic  rivers,  its  sunset  trail, 
were  a  magnet  that  drew  from  South  and  North  alike.  No 
young  man  could  be  oblivious  to  the  attraction.  Even  theo- 
logical students  at  Andover  saw  opportunity  in  the  West  for 
both  service  and  adventure. 

Attempts  had  been  made  by  the  General  Association  of 
Connecticut  to  send  out  local  pastors  as  itinerant  evangelists 
for  a  few  months.  The  Connecticut  Missionary  Society  was 
the  result,  followed  by  the  Massachusetts  Missionary  Society. 
Both  came  into  existence  before  the  year  1800.  The  other  New 
England  states  organized  similar  societies  within  the  next  ten 
years.  In  1801  the  Plan  of  Union  was  arranged  between  the 
Congregationalists  and  the  Presbyterians  by  which  the  two 
denominations  were  to  combine  forces  for  missionary  efifort. 

The  beginnings  of  settlement  had  been  made  in  southern 
Ohio,  and  the  Western  Reserve  along  Lake  Erie  was  develop- 
ing along  with  the  fertile  western  part  of  New  York.  President 
Dwight  of  Yale  regarded  the  westward  movement  as  highly 
significant  for  the  future  of  the  nation,  and  he  felt  the  Chris- 
tian responsibility  *'to  lay  out  the  streets  and  plant  the  founda- 
tions of  literature  and  religion  and  to  give  shape  to  the  insti- 
tutions of  society."  It  was  this  sense  of  responsibility  that  led 
three  Andover  students  to  discuss  the  plan  of  a  national  home 
missionary  society,  as  they  were  riding  in  a  stagecoach  to  a 
funeral  at  Newburyport,  and  that  evening  to  talk  it  over  at 
the  house  of  Professor  Porter.  Nathaniel  Bouton,  who  origi- 
nated the  idea,  Aaron  Foster,  and  Hiram  Chamberlain  were 


the  students.  Not  long  afterward  Foster  discussed  the  matter 
before  the  Porter  Rhetorical  Society,  advocating  the  settle- 
ment of  local  pastors  as  well  as  the  itineracy  of  evangelists. 
His  appeals  were  seconded  by  John  Maltby  at  a  special  meet- 
ing of  the  Society.  He  urged  '*  planting  in  every  little  com- 
munity that  is  rising  up  men  of  learning  and  influence,  to 
impress  their  characters  upon  those  communities — a  system 
that  shall  gather  the  resources  of  philanthropy,  patriotism,  and 
Christian  sympathy  throughout  our  country  into  one  vast 
reservoir  from  which  a  stream  shall  flow  to  Georgia  and  to 
Louisiana,  to  Missouri  and  to  Maine."  The  result  was  the 
application  of  six  seniors  for  ordination  as  home  missionaries. 
This  resulted  in  the  organization  of  the  American  Home  Mis- 
sionary Society  in  1826,  as  the  appeal  of  the  earlier  Brethren 
had  brought  the  American  Board  into  existence. 

Foster,  Maltby,  and  Chamberlain  were  among  the  first  to 
be  commissioned.  Jeremiah  Porter,  graduating  in  1828, 
founded  the  First  Presbyterian  Church  in  Chicago  in  1838. 
Artemas  Bullard  of  the  next  class  eventually  became  pastor 
of  the  First  Church  in  St.  Louis,  outpost  of  civilization  in 
the  Mississippi  Valley.  Back  in  1812-15,  Samuel  J.  Mills, 
John  F.  Schermerhorn,  and  Daniel  Smith,  all  Andover  men, 
had  made  journeys  of  exploration  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Connecticut  and  Massachusetts  societies  from  Lake  Erie  to 
New  Orleans.  They  reported  only  one '  Congregational  or 
Presbyterian  minister  in  Indiana  and  none  in  Illinois.  As  a 
result  Samuel  Giddings,  Andover,  1814,  had  been  sent  as  mis- 
sionary to  Missouri.  He  made  far  journeys  among  the  Indians 
and  founded  churches  in  western  Illinois.  Howe  and  Ellis  of 
Andover  settled  promptly  in  Illinois  after  graduation.  Ellis 
started  a  seminary  at  Jacksonville,  and  with  the  help  of  en- 
thusiastic Yale  men  it  became  Illinois  College.  Truman  M. 
Post,  Andover,  1835,  became  one  of  its  professors.  Elihu  W. 
Baldwin,  class  of  18 17,  dedicated  Wabash  College  to  Christ 
as  he  knelt  in  the  snow  of  the  primeval  forest  on  a  winter  day. 
It  was  the  temper  of  such  men  as  these  which  made  such  a 
brave  beginning. 

The  activity  of  these  home  missionary  pastors  appears  in  a 

imy 


letter  from  Henry  Little,  Andover,  1829.  Writing  from  his 
station  in  Madison,  Indiana,  he  said :  *'I  hardly  know  whether 
I  may  be  most  properly  called  a  pastor  (on  a  large  scale), 
evangelist,  missionary,  or  agent.  In  the  Presbyterian  church 
the  Lord's  Supper  is  administered  once  in  two  or  three  months, 
and  at  those  seasons  they  have  preaching  two,  three,  four  or 
more  days.  A  large  part  of  my  Sabbaths  have  been  spent  at 
these  meetings,  and  during  the  season  the  collection  is  made 
for  the  Home  Missionary  Society,  and  very  often  there  has 
been  something  to  be  done  in  building  a  meetinghouse,  remov- 
ing an  old  debt,  raising  a  salary  for  a  pastor,  or  assistance  in 
a  revival  of  religion.  At  other  times  I  have  been  in  the  woods 
a  week  introducing  a  missionary  to  his  field,  preaching  every 
day.  Or  in  gathering  a  congregation  where  a  church  is  to  be 
formed  or  a  missionary  sent." 

Writing  from  Bedford,  Indiana,  about  the  same  time, 
Solomon  Kittredge,  class  of  1832,  said:  "For  twelve  years 
I  have  occupied  a  missionary  field  embracing  one  entire  county 
and  part  of  the  time  two  ...  a  field  containing  from  thirty  to 
forty  thousand  inhabitants.  .  .  .  When  I  came  here  it  was  a 
moral  desolation.  There  were  no  churches,  no  Sabbath,  nor 
Sabbath-keeping  people.  The  Sabbath  was  known  or  observed 
only  as  a  holiday — a  day  for  visiting,  hunting,  horse-racing, 
and  the  like.  Business  houses  were  kept  open,  and  business 
transacted  as  on  other  days."  But  when  he  wrote  there  were 
three  churches  and  a  quiet  village  on  Sunday. 

Real  hardship  attended  the  life  of  the  home  missionary. 
He  left  behind  him  most  of  the  comforts  of  the  East.  He  took 
risks  in  his  journeying.  He  felt  the  responsibility  of  a  heavy 
task.  "1  commenced  my  labors  in  the  ministry  in  1830,"  wrote 
Lucian  Farnham,  who  graduated  from  Andover  that  summer. 
*'Late  in  the  autumn  of  that  year  I  arrived  in  this  state  [Illinois] 
where  I  have  labored  to  this  time,  in  season  and  out  of  season 
—  in  ceiled  houses  and  log  cabins,  in  school  houses,  in  private 
dwellings,  and  in  the  open  air  without  a  house.  I  have  trav- 
eled many  thousands  of  miles  through  heat  and  cold,  storm 
and  calm,  by  night  and  day,  in  perils  in  the  wilderness,  in  perils 
in  the  prairie,  in  perils  of  waters — in  hunger  and  thirst,  in 


weariness  and  painfulness,  in  watchings  and  fastings — I  have 
made  my  lodging  in  the  lone  prairie  without  food  or  fire  — 
with  no  shelter  but  heaven's  canopy — no  bed  but  the  open 
wagon-box,  and  no  music  but  the  howling  of  the  wolf.  .  .  .  By 
the  grace  of  God  I  am  what  I  am.  It  is  wonderful  conde- 
scension that  God  should  give  me  a  place  in  his  vineyard." 

One  ever-present  handicap  was  the  need  of  becoming  accli- 
mated. Malaria  haunted  the  prairies.  Farnham's  classmate, 
Ferris  Fitch,  found  his  settlement  at  Lower  Sandusky,  Ohio, 
forty  miles  by  river  from  Lake  Erie.  Fitch  described  his  ex- 
periences in  vivid  language.  **  During  the  summer  the  water 
is  stagnant,  and  the  land  through  which  the  river  passes  in 
its  passage  to  the  lake  is  prairie.  When  the  vegetation  begins 
to  decay  and  the  north  wind  to  blow  in  the  fall  of  the  year,  it 
rolls  up  the  very  quintessence  of  swamp  miasma.  In  a  village 
of  one  thousand  people  I  have  counted  rising  of  five  hundred 
sick  at  once.  I  have  spent  three  months  in  visiting  the  sick 
without  asking  till  Sabbath  morning  what  I  should  preach. 
My  hearers  of  course  at  such  a  time  few.  I  have  had  eighty 
die  within  the  bounds  of  my  parish  in  one  year.  I  have  lived 
one  month  without  taking  off  my  clothes  save  for  washing, 
or  without  lying  down  on  a  bed  but  once,  then  only  for  a  few 
hours.  I  would  get  a  little  rest  at  night  on  a  sofa  in  a  sick 
room.  I  was  often  abroad  at  midnight,  out  at  all  hours.  My 
family  were  sick,  but  amidst  it  all  I  enjoyed  good  health,  and 
hardly  knew  what  it  was  to  be  weary." 

These  dangers  and  difficulties  did  not  daunt  the  men  on 
Andover  Hill.  One  class  after  another  sent  its  quota  west- 
ward! Except  once  no  class  failed  to  be  represented  until  1858. 
The  classes  of  1825  and  1829  sent  twenty-three  each.  The 
classes  of  1832  and  1843  ^^^h  had  twenty  in  the  field.  Nine- 
teen men  went  among  the  Indians,  ten  among  the  Negroes, 
ten  to  work  with  sailors.  Twenty-six  different  classes  sent 
no  less  than  ten  each  into  home  missionary  service.  They 
went  into  thirty-three  states  from  Maine  to  Texas.  Nor  was 
it  only  in  the  first  part  of  the  century  that  the  interest  con- 
tinued. Sixty-five  representatives  went  from  the  Hill  between 
1873  ^^^  1900. 

iioey 


An  interesting  experiment  was  the  cooperative  work  of  the 
bands  of  students  who  graduated  at  the  same  time  from  the 
Seminary.  In  the  class  of  1843  ^^  Andover  twelve  men  fell 
into  the  custom  of  meeting  in  the  Library  by  moonlight  for 
prayer.  The  need  of  the  frontier  people  for  spiritual  help 
weighed  upon  their  hearts.  One  of  the  number,  Horace 
Hutchinson,  had  spoken  a  suggestion  that  was  bearing  fruit. 
*'If  we  and  some  others,"  he  said  to  two  of  his  classmates, 
''could  only  go  out  together,  and  take  possession  of  some  field, 
where  we  could  have  the  ground  and  work  together,  what  a 
grand  thing  it  would  be !"  The  prayer  group  in  the  darkness 
was  seeking  for  light  on  the  future.  After  considering  the 
possibilities  of  different  sections,  they  decided  to  plan  for  a 
cooperative  enterprise  in  Iowa.  A  farewell  service  was  held 
in  the  South  Church  in  Andover  for  the  eleven  young  men 
who  had  elected  to  go.  Dr.  Leonard  Bacon  preached  the  ser- 
mon and  the  Home  Missionary  Society  gave  its  blessing 
through  Secretary  Badger.  Thus  graduated  into  the  home 
missionary  ranks  Ephraim  and  Harvey  Adams,  Ebenezer 
Alden,  James  F.  Hill,  Horace  Hutchinson,  Daniel  Lane, 
Erastus  Ripley,  Alden  B.  Robbins,  William  Salter,  Benjamin 
A.  Spaulding,  and  Edwin  B.  Turner. 

The  Iowa  Band  marked  the  beginning  of  a  new  growth  of 
Congregationalism  in  the  West.  Most  of  the  Congregation- 
alists  who  had  gone  to  the  prairies,  including  the  ministers, 
had  adopted  Presbyterian  church  relations.  Only  fifteen  Con- 
gregational churches  existed  in  Iowa  when  the  Band  arrived, 
but  its  members  retained  their  Congregational  polity  and 
changed  the  course  of  denominational  history.  A  Congrega- 
tional historian  enthusiastically  testifies  of  them:  "The  West 
would  be  vastly  poorer  in  its  religious  and  educational  life 
but  for  that  timely  renaissance,  and  chief  among  the  agencies 
to  which  that  recovery  was  due,  is  this  band  of  Andover  pil- 
grims, who  were  directed  to  the  western  bank  of  the  Missis- 
sippi in  1843  with  the  Pilgrim  polity  as  well  as  the  Pilgrim 
faith  glowing  in  their  hearts." 

Twenty-three  years  after  the  members  of  the  Iowa  Band 
said  goodbye  to  their  friends  at  the  Seminary  and  the  place 

iiory 


where  they  had  knelt  in  prayer,  other  men  felt  the  stirring  of 
events  in  Kansas  and  were  eager  to  cast  in  their  lot  with  those 
who  were  settling  there.  Two  of  them,  Sylvester  D.  Storrs 
and  Grosvenor  C.  Morse,  were  New  England  born.  Richard 
Cordley  and  Roswell  D.  Parker  were  from  the  newer  State  of 
Michigan.  For  a  year  they  met  for  prayer  with  others  of  the 
students  in  one  of  the  dormitory  rooms,  with  the  same  earnest 
purpose  which  had  animated  the  Iowa  Band.  They  reached 
Kansas  in  time  to  participate  in  the  struggle  to  keep  the  Ter- 
ritory free  from  slavery.  They  became  religious  leaders  in 
the  growing  centers  of  population.  Storrs  in  the  capacity  of 
State  superintendent  of  missions  organized  more  than  one 
hundred  Congregational  churches  in  twelve  years.  Morse 
was  the  means  of  establishing  a  State  normal  college.  They 
had  to  contend  with  barbarities  of  human  conduct  in  the  in- 
tense days  of  the  Civil  War.  For  some  time  the  hardships  of 
a  new  country  were  a  handicap.  Strenuous  endeavor  was 
necessary  to  keep  the  wolf  from  the  church  door.  But  they 
hung  on  and  grew  up  with  the  country,  recognized  leaders  in 
church  and  community. 

It  seems  a  bit  strange  to  speak  of  Maine  as  home  mission 
territory,  yet  the  development  of  some  parts  of  it  and  the 
decline  of  once  thriving  communities  presented  a  field  of  op- 
portunity comparable  with  the  Far  West  when  the  frontier 
was  on  the  point  of  disappearing.  It  was  a  realization  of  this 
fact  that  prompted  the  organization  in  1892  of  the  Andover 
League  for  Work  in  Neglected  Places,  though  it  lasted  only 
two  years.  Those  who  joined  it  agreed  to  give  the  early  part 
of  their  ministry  to  the  people  of  such  communities.  Relation 
was  established  with  the  secretaries  of  Maine  and  New  Hamp- 
shire, and  out  of  it  came  the  Maine  Band,  composed  of  five 
men  of  the  class  of  1892.  The  five  were  ordained  together  at 
Farmington  and  settled  near  one  another  in  two  rural  coun- 
ties, Edwin  R.  Smith  at  Temple,  Oliver  D.  Sewall  at  Strong, 
William  W.  Ranney  at  Phillips,  Edward  R.  Stearns  at  New 
Vineyard,  and  James  C.  Gregory  at  Bingham.  They  frequently 
exchanged  pulpits  and  held  joint  services  with  two  or  more 
of  their  number. 

imy 


The  veterans  who  had  gone  West  in  the  early  days  were  in- 
clined to  be  rather  scornful  of  the  later  alumni.  Chauncy 
Eddy,  who  completed  his  Seminary  course  at  Andover  in 
1 82 1,  was  a  man  who  had  knocked  about  the  country  East 
and  South,  and  later  in  life  had  settled  down  in  Jackson,  Illi- 
nois. He  had  evangelized  on  an  island  off  the  South  Carolina 
coast  until  forty-five  colored  people  had  organized  into  a  Bap- 
tist church,  and  three  "females"  had  experienced  religion. 
He  had  traveled  in  the  frontier  country  of  New  York  as  an 
agent  of  the  American  Board  and  of  the  Western  Education 
Society.  He  had  raised  money  and  had  turned  one  hundred 
young  men  towards  the  ministry.  For  a  short  time  he  was 
secretary  of  the  New  York  Colonization  Society.  Later  in 
life  he  found  settlement  in  the  pastorate  at  Jacksonville, 
Illinois.  He  rejoiced  in  the  freedom  of  the  West,  where  a  man 
had  room  to  stretch  himself,  and  he  closed  his  letter  with  a 
sly  dig  at  the  young  fellows.  '*  Now  I  am  not  occupying  any 
place  which  the  young  men  coming  out  of  the  Seminary  want, 
and  so  am  not  in  their  way.  And  I  have  a  field  of  labor  here 
where  I  can  swing  my  arms  as  much  as  I  please  without 
hitting  anybody,  which,  after  abating  all  that  is  reasonable 
for  mud,  fleas,  etc.,  etc.,  is  far  better  than  any  New  England 
parish.  I  have  concluded  if  the  Lord  will  to  hold  on  a  while 
longer.  There  is  much  to  be  done  out  in  this  central  part  of 
creation,  which  requires  something  more  than  such  courage 
and  enterprise  as  that  is  which  of  late  comes  out  of  seminaries 
to  perform.  I  hope  there  are  other  gray  heads  at  the  East 
who  will  take  their  families  on  their  backs  and  come  out  to 
clear  up  the  country  and  prepare  good  parishes  for  the  young 
men."  These  criticisms  of  the  younger  men  may  have  been 
half  in  jest,  but  they  were  obviously  unfair  at  a  time  when  the 
Iowa  Band  had  just  entered  the  Mississippi  Valley.  Eddy 
himself  was  back  in  the  Berkshire  country  of  New  England 
a  few  years  later. 

It  took  all  kinds  of  men  to  make  the  West.  Pioneers  there 
were  among  them  who  liked  the  rough  and  tumble  life,  faith- 
ful trail  blazers  who  pushed  on  regardless  of  obstacles,  and 
refined  and  cultured  graduates  of  the  seminaries  who  became 

-{109}> 


pastors  of  leading  churches  and  founders  of  schools  and  col- 
leges. Andover  had  samples  of  them  all.  About  two  hundred 
and  fifty  men  belong  on  her  roll  of  honor  as  home  missionaries, 
and  many  more  who  in  part  belong  in  that  category.  They 
helped  to  build  that  interior  empire  which  has  become  the 
heart  of  America,  saved  to  Christianity  and  a  cultured  civiliza- 
tion by  the  churches  and  schools  that  they  established.  Men 
of  the  Middle  Border,  men  of  the  plains  beyond,  a  few  men 
of  the  Golden  West  beside  the  sea,  they  labored  well  and 
others  have  entered  into  their  labors. 


iuoy 


CHAPTER    VI 

ANDOVER  MEN  IN  FOREIGN  MISSIONS 

IT  is  Andover's  pride  that  her  sons  were  pioneers  in  the 
foreign  mission  enterprise  of  the  American  churches.  It 
was  they  who  challenged  the  Congregational  ministers  of 
Massachusetts  to  find  a  way  to  send  them  as  their  representa- 
tives to  the  pagan  peoples  on  the  other  side  of  the  world.  Out 
of  Andover  Theological  Seminary  went  some  of  her  firstborn 
to  plant  Christianity  in  Burma  and  peninsular  India.  A  few 
years  later  others  were  making  Palestine  and  Syria  their  goal, 
planting  the  banner  of  the  Cross  where  the  Crescent  held  the 
right  of  way.  Soon  still  others  were  sailing  to  the  heart  of 
the  Pacific  and  wresting  Hawaii  from  grossness  and  idolatry. 
So  splendid  was  Andover's  contribution  that  the  history  of 
the  missions  of  the  American  Board  for  the  first  quarter  of 
a  century  is  the  story  of  Andover  men  and  their  sacrificial 
service.  Repeatedly  that  service  was  the  surrender  of  life 
itself,  but  as  soon  as  one  in  the  front  line  fell  another  was 
ready  to  step  into  his  place.  No  more  compelling  is  the  call 
of  the  South  to  the  waterfowl  when  the  summer  wanes,  than 
was  the  Macedonian  call  from  heathendom  to  the  dormitories 
and  classrooms  on  Andover  Hill.  They  became  preachers  and 
teachers,  writers  and  translators,  advisors  and  administrators. 
They  entered  Asia  from  the  west  and  from  the  east  and  dared 
the  hostility  of  Turks  and  Chinese  in  the  hinterland.  They 
risked  fevers  on  the  tropical  west  coast  of  Africa  and  cholera 
in  India  and  Persia.  They  created  civilization  in  the  Sand- 
wich Islands,  and  they  saw  paganism  crumble  slowly  in  Ceylon. 
They  planted  schools  for  Greeks  and  Bulgarians,  and  healed 
the  wounds  of  Armenian  refugees.  They  threaded  ways  that 
are  dark  in  China,  and  tried  to  penetrate  behind  the  polite 
exterior  of  Japan.  They  were  all  things  to  all  men  if  by  any 
means  they  might  gain  some. 

^IIU 


The  missionary  motive  is  as  old  as  Christianity.  It  was 
aroused  in  America  by  the  spiritual  awakenings  at  the  turn  of 
the  century.  It  had  come  in  England  through  the  initiative 
of  William  Carey,  but  he  had  been  inspired  by  the  revivals 
of  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century  in  England  and 
America.  The  passion  for  missionary  service  for  Americans 
abroad  was  in  the  heart  of  Samuel  J.  Mills  as  a  result  of  the 
Evangelical  Awakening,  and  when  he  went  to  Williams  Col- 
lege, he  kindled  the  flame  among  a  few  of  his  college  friends. 
It  is  a  familiar  story  how  they  talked  over  the  needs  of  the 
heathen  world,  and  how  they  drew  up  a  constitution  for  their 
secret  society  and  adopted  it  under  a  haystack,  where  they 
sought  shelter  from  a  sudden  shower.  To  look  upon  those 
few  paragraphs  and  the  names  of  the  organizers  in  cipher; 
to  decode  them  and  to  read:  ''Constitution  of  a  Society  of 
Brethren,  Williams  College,  September  7,  1808";  in  imagina- 
tion to  see  those  humble  dreamers  storm  the  walls  of  con- 
servatism until  they  gained  the  sanction  of  their  older  brethren 
in  the  ministry ;  and  then  to  see  them  sailing  the  seven  seas 
on  an  errand  that  was  to  the  Greeks  a  stumbling-block  and 
to  the  barbarians  foolishness,  but  that  was  to  prove  the  power 
of  God  to  the  breaking  down  of  the  strongholds  of  darkness — 
this  is  to  thrill  with  the  courage  and  faith  of  those  resolute 
few  who  in  the  optimism  of  youth  shrank  from  no  danger 
and  shirked  no  task. 

The  organizers  of  the  Brethren  scattered  upon  graduation 
from  college,  but  the  Society  of  the  Brethren  was  transferred 
to  Andover,  where  it  continued  for  sixty  years  until  it  admitted 
to  its  membership  Joseph  Neesima  and  Robert  A.  Hume,  one 
to  go  back  presently  to  Japan  and  establish  Doshisha  Univer- 
sity, the  other  to  make  missionary  history  in  India.  At  An- 
dover the  Society  was  joined  by  Adoniram  Judson  from 
Brown,  Newell  from  Harvard,  and  Nott  from  Union  College. 
The  first  record  of  the  Society  at  Andover  is  dated  Septem- 
ber 14,  1810,  when  the  Brethren  chose  their  officers  for  the 
year.  Andover  became  the  seed  bed  of  missionary  propaganda. 
Branches  of  the  organization  were  formed  at  other  seminaries, 
which  reported  to  the  parent  society  at  Andover,  but  only  a 

Amy 


{ 


very  few  students  were  interested.  Andover  students  en- 
couraged the  others  and  sent  out  the  largest  number  of  mis- 
sionaries. The  original  records  continued  to  be  kept  in  cipher 
until  Pliny  Fisk  decoded  them  in  1818,  with  the  constitution 
and  a  historical  sketch  of  the  Society.  These  were  entered 
in  a  small  black  book,  which  served  the  Society  throughout 
its  existence. 

The  spirit  of  the  members  was  deeply  devotional.  Every 
student  who  joined  was  required  by  the  constitution  to  read 
and  pray  in  order  to  determine  his  duty,  whether  he  should 
spend  his  life  among  the  heathen.  Special  devotions  were 
observed  on  Sunday  mornings  and  Tuesday  evenings,  and 
the  second  Tuesday  in  January  was  kept  as  a  day  of  fasting 
and  prayer  for  the  missionary  cause. 

Samuel  J.  Mills  continued  to  be  the  inspirer  of  the  move- 
ment. Between  his  graduation  and  his  going  to  Andover  he 
was  for  a  time  in  New  Haven.  Under  date  of  December  20, 
1809,  he  wrote  to  Gordon  Hall  at  Andover,  telling  him  about 
Henry  Obookiah,  the  Hawaiian,  who  had  been  brought  to 
America,  and  when  the  captain  of  the  ship  would  no  longer 
give  him  aid  had  been  taken  in  by  the  big  heart  of  Mills  and 
made  his  protege.  ''Here  I  intend  he  shall  stay  until  next 
spring,"  wrote  Mills,  "if  he  is  contented,  and  I  trust  he  will 
be.  Thus  you  see  he  is  likely  to  be  fairly  fixed  by  my  side. 
What  does  this  mean,  Brother  Hall?  Do  you  understand  it? 
Shall  he  be  sent  back  unsupported  to  attempt  to  reclaim  his 
countrymen?  Shall  we  not  rather  consider  these  South  Sea 
Islands  a  proper  place  for  the  establishment  of  a  mission? 
Not  that  I  would  give  up  the  heathen  tribes  to  the  westward. 
I  trust  that  we  shall  be  able  to  establish  more  than  one  mis- 
sion in  a  short  time,  at  least  in  a  few  years.  I  mean  that  God 
will  enable  us  to  extend  our  views  and  labor  further  than  we 
have  before  contemplated.  We  ought  not  to  look  only  to  the 
heathen  on  our  own  continent.  We  ought  to  direct  our  atten- 
tion to  that  place  where  we  may  to  human  appearances  do  the 
most  good,  and  where  the  difficulties  are  the  least.  We  are  to 
look  to  the  climate,  established  prejudices,  the  acquirement  of 
languages,  means  of  subsistence,  etc.,  etc.   All  these  things  I 

iiuy 


apprehend  are  to  be  considered.  The  field  is  almost  boundless, 
for  every  part  of  which  there  ought  to  be  missionaries." 

Farther  on  in  the  same  letter  Mills  continues  :  ''With  regard 
to  Andover  two  of  the  Brethren  are  there.  I  think  it  not  likely 
I  shall  go  there  myself  soon,  or  within  four  or  five  weeks.  I 
had  previously  heard  of  Mr.  Judson.  You  say  he  thinks  of 
offering  himself  as  a  missionary  to  the  London  Society  for  the 
East  Indies  ?  What !  is  England  to  support  her  own  mission- 
aries and  ours  likewise?  O  for  shame!  If  he  is  prepared  I 
would  fain  press  him  forward  with  the  arm  of  a  Hercules  if 
I  had  the  strength.  But  I  do  not  like  this  dependence  upon 
another  nation,  especially  when  they  have  done  so  much,  and 
we  nothing.  As  far  as  I  am  acquainted  with  his  circumstances 
(indeed  I  scarcely  know  anything  about  him),  I  should  think 
it  would  be  better  for  him  to  remain  where  he  is,  or  preach  in 
our  present  field  of  missions  for  a  time." 

For  the  purpose  of  getting  missionary  information  so  that 
they  might  decide  intelligently  about  their  Hfe  work,  the  stu- 
dents at  Andover  organized  the  "Society  of  Inquiry  on  the 
Subject  of  Missions,"  January  8,  1811.  Its  expressed  pur- 
pose was  "to  inquire  into  the  state  of  the  heathen;  the  duty 
and  importance  of  missionary  labors ;  the  best  manner  of 
conducting  missions  and  the  most  eligible  place  for  their 
establishment ;  also  to  disseminate  information  relative  to  these 
subjects;  and  to  incite  the  attention  of  Christians  to  the  im- 
portance and  duty  of  missions."  One  of  the  Brethren  who  had 
entered  the  Seminary  the  year  before,  speaking  of  the  deep 
interest  in  missions,  said:  "I  found  that  this  subject  lay  with 
great  weight  upon  the  minds  of  a  number.  They  were  anxious 
to  know  what  was  their  personal  duty.  The  spirit  of  missions 
was  there.  I  thought  at  the  time,  and  have  often  thought  since, 
that  God  then  sent  his  spirit  into  the  Seminary  to  convert  the 
student  to  the  subject  of  missions."  The  question  of  a  man's 
duty  was  insistent.  Said  Dr.  DeWitt  S.  Clark  in  his  Centen- 
nial address:  "It  fronted  him  on  every  side  —  in  the  conver- 
sation of  his  companions,  in  his  study  of  the  Scriptures,  in 
papers  and  discussions,  in  letters  of  travelers,  in  addresses, 
sermons  and  ordinations  of  those  who  had  responded  to  the 

iiuy 


call.  .  .  .  That  famous  haystack  at  Williamstown  was  no  more 
the  seat  of  missionary  consecration  and  outlook  than  the 
round  hillock  in  the  thick  wood  just  below  this  spot,  where 
Mills  and  his  little  band  gathered  from  time  to  time  to  renew 
their  pledges  of  loyalty  and  talk  together  of  the  great  world 
beyond,  into  which  they  longed  to  go  as  soldiers  of  the  Cross." 

The  missionary  enthusiasts  were  well  aware  that  they  must 
depend  upon  the  good  will  of  the  Congregational  churches. 
They  appealed  to  the  churches  for  contributions  of  money  to 
enable  them  to  buy  books,  and  from  various  sources  they  ob- 
tained both  money  and  books  to  the  value  of  three  hundred 
dollars.  Most  important  was  it  to  interest  the  ministers  in 
their  enterprise.  The  General  Association  of  Massachusetts 
met  in  annual  session  at  Bradford,  six  miles  away,  in  June, 
1810.  Six  of  the  Andover  students  were  ready  to  offer  them- 
selves for  missionary  service  if  they  could  obtain  the  approval 
and  support  of  the  Association.  At  a  small  conference  at  the 
house  of  Professor  Stuart,  Samuel  Newell  told  the  professors 
and  a  few  others  what  was  in  their  hearts.  The  next  morning 
Dr.  Spring  of  Newburyport  and  Dr.  Worcester  of  Salem 
drove  across  country  musing  and  talking  about  what  they 
had  heard,  and  when  four  of  the  six  students — more  might 
have  been  too  much  of  a  shock  to  the  Association — told  their 
story,  the  plan  was  ready  in  their  minds.  By  unanimous 
action  the  Association  forthwith  organized  the  American 
Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions.  This  was 
composed  of  nine  men,  originally  all  from  Massachusetts,  but 
the  next  year  Connecticut  was  given  four  of  the  representa- 
tives and  within  two  years  the  Presbyterians  were  welcomed 
to  a  part  in  the  enterprise. 

The  Board  was  cautious  and  hopeful  of  ways  and  means, 
but  it  advised  the  students  to  continue  their  studies  and  wait 
for  the  proper  time  to  come  when  they  might  go  to  the  lands 
of  their  hearts'  desire.  Meanwhile  it  appointed  a  prudential 
committee  and  issued  an  appeal  to  the  public.  Judson  carried 
the  appeal  of  the  students  to  England,  hoping  to  get  assistance 
there,  but  the  London  Missionary  Society  preferred  that  the 
Americans  should  respond  to  the  appeal,  though  the  Society 


did  not  refuse  assistance  for  a  time.  The  result  was  that 
Judson,  Newell,  Hall,  and  Nott  were  soon  under  the  appoint- 
ment of  the  American  Board  to  go  to  Asia,  and  money  for 
their  support  was  forthcoming.  One  may  picture  to  himself 
that  historic  scene  when  Judson  and  Newell  were  ordained 
in  the  Tabernacle  Church  in  Salem,  of  which  Dr.  Worcester 
was  pastor,  and  their  wintry  departure  with  their  youthful 
wives  on  the  ship  Caravan  from  Salem  harbor,  and  one  may 
follow  in  fancy  their  slow  voyage  to  India.  Theirs  was  the 
flagship  of  a  mighty  fleet.  Five  days  after  the  Caravan  cleared 
from  Salem,  the  Harmony  carried  out  of  Philadelphia  Nott 
and  his  wife  with  Hall  and  Rice. 

After  long  voyages  both  ships  arrived  at  Calcutta  only  to 
find  the  way  blocked  against  the  missionaries.  The  East  India 
Company,  which  controlled  the  region,  was  hostile  to  mis- 
sionaries, and  the  War  of  1812  between  Britain  and  America, 
declared  the  day  after  the  Caravan  arrived,  made  all  Ameri- 
cans unwelcome.  The  only  opening  seemed  to  be  in  the  island 
of  Mauritius.  Another  long  voyage  sapped  the  strength  of  Mrs. 
Newell,  and  she  died  soon  after  arrival  there.  Hall  and  Nott 
escaped  deportation  to  England  only  by  a  hurried  departure 
to  Bombay,  which  became  the  point  of  departure  for  the  later 
Marathi  mission.  The  indomitable  Hall  wore  himself  out 
within  a  few  years.  Newell,  who  soon  joined  them,  died  still 
earlier,  and  Nott  returned  to  America.  Judson,  the  enthusi- 
astic, intrepid  leader  of  the  missionary  group,  found  himself 
convinced  of  Baptist  principles,  and  going  to  Burma  became 
the  representative  of  the  American  Baptists.  Rice,  with  the 
same  change  of  denominational  affiliation,  returned  to  America 
to  become  like  Mills  a  promoter  of  missions  among  the 
churches  of  America.  Strange  must  have  seemed  the  fortunes 
of  this  forlorn  hope,  when  the  five  pioneers  were  scattered  so 
soon.  Yet  the  permanent  results  were  incalculable.  The  Mara- 
thi mission  meant  a  foothold  for  the  larger  work  that  was  to 
follow  in  the  Indian  Empire.  Judson's  transfer  of  denomi- 
national allegiance  resulted  in  the  organization  of  the  Ameri- 
can Baptists  for  foreign  missions,  and  in  Burma  Judson  with 
heroic  struggle  prepared  the  way  for  the  brilliant  missionary 


success  among  the  Karens,  first  evangelized  by  George  Dana 
Boardman,  a  resident  licentiate  at  Andover  in  1824. 

The  year  after  the  War  of  1812  ended  saw  the  first  Andover 
men  enter  Ceylon.  Newell  had  stopped  there  on  his  way  to 
join  Hall  at  Bombay  and  found  a  favorable  situation,  so  that 
the  next  delegation  from  America  was  turned  in  that  direc- 
tion. Five  more  missionaries,  Richards  and  Warren,  class 
of  1812,  Meigs,  class  of  '13,  and  Bardwell  and  Poor,  class 
of  '14,  all  married  except  Warren,  took  possession  of  the 
peninsula  of  Jafifna  for  Christ.  Bardwell  soon  was  sent  on 
to  Bombay  to  push  the  work  of  publication.  At  Jaffna  the 
missionaries  found  quarters  in  an  abandoned  Dutch  mission, 
and  following  the  educational  methods  adopted  at  Bombay, 
commenced  the  work  of  Christian  education  among  350,000 
Tamil-speaking  people,  whose  ancestors  had  emigrated  across 
from  South  India.  Preaching  added  effectiveness  to  the  in- 
struction of  the  schools.  Spaulding  and  Winslow,  both  of 
the  class  of  1818  at  Andover,  arrived  to  reinforce  them  in 
1820,  barely  in  time  to  be  admitted  before  the  Government 
shut  the  door  against  any  more  American  missionaries  in 
Ceylon. 

The  missions  were  limited  in  resources  and  crippled  in 
personnel,  for  the  climate  took  fearful  toll  of  missionary  lives, 
and  the  attitude  of  the  Government  was  reluctant  if  not  un- 
friendly. More  missionaries  died  than  there  were  natives 
baptized.  But  nothing  daunted  the  students  who  met  under 
the  auspices  of  the  Society  of  Inquiry  on  Andover  Hill. 
Graves  represented  the  class  of  181 5  on  his  departure  for 
Bombay,  where  he  worked  for  twenty-six  years.  Nichols  of 
the  next  class  also  went  to  Bombay,  but  he  lived  only  six  years. 
With  all  the  odds  against  them  the  youthful  missionaries  kept 
at  work.  The  care  of  boarding  schools,  the  preaching  and 
touring,  the  patient  study  of  language,  the  time-consuming 
conversations  with  individuals  whom  they  were  trying  to 
reach,  filled  their  days.  The  need  of  trained  natives  as  teachers 
warranted  the  establishment  of  a  theological  seminary  in 
Ceylon,  of  which  Daniel  Poor  was  in  charge  for  twelve  years, 
an  Andover  man  transplanted  to  the  tropics  of  the  Indian 


Ocean.  To  provide  suitable  wives  for  the  native  men  a  semi- 
nary for  girls  was  started  also.  Revivals  cheered  the  hearts 
of  the  workers ;  defections  from  the  ranks  of  the  native  Chris- 
tians discouraged  them,  but  there  were  a  few  who  proved 
capable  and  true.  The  workers  at  Bombay  explored  the  in- 
terior and  selected  Ahmednagar  one  hundred  and  fifty  miles 
away  as  a  center  there.  Persecution  added  to  the  troubles  of 
the  missionary,  but  perseverance  always  won  in  time,  if  the 
missionary  did  not  die  first.  It  was  pioneering  with  all  the 
perils  and  discouragements  that  check  and  seem  to  baffle,  but 
with  the  missionary  urge  in  their  hearts  the  Americans  could 
not  stop. 

A  third  mission  of  Andover  men  was  to  the  Sandwich  Is- 
lands. Obookiah  had  been  at  Andover  intermittently,  and 
when  he  died  before  he  was  ready  to  carry  the  gospel  back 
to  his  own  Hawaiian  people,  it  seemed  that  men  from  the  Hill 
must  take  his  place.  Asa  Thurston,  a  graduate  of  Yale  and 
of  the  class  of  1819  at  Andover,  and  his  classmate,  Hiram 
Bingham  from  Middlebury,  agreed  to  go  together.  Ordained 
in  Connecticut,  and  in  Park  Street  Church  in  Boston  organized 
into  a  church  with  others  who  were  going  with  them,  they 
sailed  in  the  fall  of  1819  on  a  five  months'  voyage  to  the  heart 
of  the  Pacific.  Bingham  labored  twenty-five  years  at  Hono- 
lulu before  he  returned  to  America.  Thurston,  blessed  with  a 
strong  physique,  was  able  to  remain  forty-eight  years  in  the 
islands  without  visiting  America.  Doubtfully  received  at  first, 
though  idolatry  had  been  abolished,  the  missionaries  soon  made 
themselves  welcome.  Bingham's  good  nature  and  firmness 
won  over  Hawaiian  royalty,  and  he  became  the  friend  and  ad- 
visor of  the  sovereign.  The  natives  loved  him.  Like  Thurs- 
ton he  preached  and  translated  the  Bible  into  the  language  of 
the  people  as  soon  as  he  gained  command  of  their  tongue.  He 
itinerated ;  he  superintended  native  schools ;  he  interpreted 
English  for  kings  and  chiefs,  remaining  until  pioneer  methods 
were  no  longer  possible.  Then  back  in  America  he  carried  on 
missionary  propaganda,  publishing  a  history  of  the  mission 
as  well  as  preaching  and  lecturing,  until  he  passed  on  at  the 
age  of  eighty.   William  Richards  was  a  third  Andover  alum- 

4II8K 


nus,  going  to  Hawaii  in  1822.  He,  too,  was  a  teacher  and  an 
advisor  of  the  chiefs,  especially  with  the  new  constitution, 
which  included  a  bill  of  rights  based  on  the  Bible.  Richards 
was  more  than  a  missionary.  For  three  years  he  was  ambas- 
sador of  the  islands  to  Great  Britain.  He  was  minister  of 
instruction,  counsellor  and  chaplain  to  the  king.  He  lectured 
on  political  science,  and  in  his  mission  at  Lahaina  he  was  a 
father  to  the  natives.  John  S.  Emerson  followed  in  the  foot- 
steps of  the  pioneers,  centering  his  work  at  Waialua,  toiling 
faithfully  for  thirty-five  years. 

The  American  Board  depended  on  Andover  graduates  to 
man  its  fourth  mission,  that  to  the  Near  East.  For  years  it 
had  been  a  fond  hope  that  Palestine  might  be  won  for  Chris- 
tianity. In  the  same  year  that  Thurston  and  Bingham  turned 
their  faces  westward,  Pliny  Fisk  and  Levi  Parsons,  who  had 
graduated  recently  from  the  Seminary,  set  sail  for  the  Holy 
Land.  That  country  was  part  of  a  vast  Turkish  empire  where 
the  Koran  determined  the  norm  of  religion.  But  there  were 
Jews  in  Palestine  who  had  not  forgotten  the  God  of  their 
fathers,  and  the  youthful  optimists  from  America  hoped  to 
persuade  them  of  the  worth  of  Christianity.  They  did  not  go 
at  once  to  Jerusalem.  From  Smyrna  as  a  base  they  toured 
Asia  Minor,  and  after  a  year  Parsons  attempted  to  settle  in 
Jerusalem,  but  political  agitation  delayed  him,  and  the  next 
year  he  was  dead.  His  place  was  taken  promptly  by  Jonas 
King,  of  the  class  of  1819  at  Andover,  who  surrendered  the 
prospect  of  an  Andover  professorship  to  fill  temporarily  the 
gap  in  the  Near  East.  From  Malta  King  and  Fisk  toured 
Egypt  on  the  way  to  Palestine,  studying  languages  mean- 
while ;  explored  Palestine  and  Syria  to  acquaint  themselves 
with  the  land  and  the  people ;  but  before  the  work  could  be 
established  King's  time  was  up,  and  Fisk  followed  Parsons 
to  a  better  country. 

Before  Fisk  died  Goodell  and  Bird  had  said  goodbye  to 
the  brick  halls  of  the  Seminary,  and  on  their  arrival  in  the 
eastern  Mediterranean  had  settled  at  Beirut  for  a  Syrian  mis- 
sion. Because  of  its  location  Beirut  proved  the  best  missionary 
center  for  that  region,  and  preparations  were  made  for  a  varied 

in9y 


ministry  in  many  tongues.  Arabic  and  Syriac,  Turkish  and 
Armenian,  Italian  and  English,  were  in  use,  and  Bible  trans- 
lations were  needed.  The  usual  methods  of  publication  and 
education  were  employed.  Within  five  years  six  hundred 
pupils  were  in  attendance.  Persecution  visited  them,  but  con- 
verts came,  and  a  church  was  established  in  Beirut;  yet  in- 
creasing peril  drove  the  missionaries  to  Malta  for  a  time. 

Twenty  alumni  of  Andover  Seminary  had  thus  ventured  in 
ten  years'  time  to  carry  the  seed  of  the  Christian  faith  and 
sow  it  in  pagan  lands.  They  found  a  stony  soil  and  inhospit- 
able people.  Alike  in  India  and  Syria  they  met  persecution 
and  fell  on  death.  Followers  of  the  Apostle  to  the  Gentiles 
whom  they  studied  in  Bartlet  Chapel,  disciples  of  the  Master 
who  had  the  courage  to  die  on  a  cross,  they  did  not  flinch  at 
hardship  or  even  death.  In  the  roll  of  honor  of  Andover  men 
their  names  are  gold.  They  fell  at  the  listening  post,  but  the 
summons  of  heathendom  found  its  silent  way  behind  the  lines 
at  home,  and  when  training  time  was  over  reinforcements 
followed  the  pioneers. 

The  story  of  the  missionary  fortunes  of  Andover  men  is 
too  long  to  follow  in  detail.  It  is  a  moving  picture,  bringing 
into  view  one  country  after  another,  introducing  the  observer 
to  one  and  another  of  those  who  gave  their  strength  to  build 
the  structure  of  the  missionary  enterprise.  The  panorama 
still  moves  on,  and  the  Society  of  Inquiry  still  ponders  upon 
the  need  and  the  message. 

The  missionary  impulse,  which  had  sent  so  many  pioneers 
to  distant  lands,  was  propagating  faith  in  the  enterprise  in 
America  itself.  It  was  the  little  group  of  devoted  students 
who  kept  it  alive  at  Andover.  It  was  Mills  among  the  Con- 
gregationalists  and  Rice  among  the  Baptists,  whose  broad 
vision  embraced  home  as  well  as  foreign  missions.  Mills 
realized  his  own  limitations  as  a  toiler  on  the  mission  field, 
but  he  knew  he  could  promote  the  cause  at  home.  Touring 
the  American  Southwest,  he  explored  the  country  as  a  possible 
mission  field,  and  made  himself  useful  organizing  Bible  soci- 
eties and  distributing  the  Scripture.  While  residing  for  a  time 
among  Presbyterians  in  the  Middle  States,  he  promoted  mis- 


sionary  and  Bible  societies  there.  He  took  so  great  an  interest 
in  the  negro  that  he  crossed  the  Atlantic  to  explore  West 
Africa  for  the  African  Colonization  Society,  and  there  his 
vigor  burned  itself  out  and  he  died  at  sea.  Rice  visited  Bap- 
tist churches  through  the  Eastern  States,  stimulated  the  raising 
of  money  and  men,  and  broadened  the  scope  of  the  Baptist 
missionary  organization  to  include  home  missions  and  Chris- 
tian education. 

The  spirit  that  wooed  Samuel  J.  Mills  did  not  cease  to  echo 
through  Andover  halls.  At  the  fortieth  Commencement  of  the 
Seminary,  after  addresses  from  twenty-eight  graduates,  they 
sang  these  words  as  a  parting  hymn : 

"  I  cannot  rest ;  there  comes  a  sweet  and  secret  whisper  to  my  spirit 
Like  a  dream  of  night, 
That  tells  me  I  am  on  enchanted  ground. 

The  voice  of  my  departed  Lord, 

Go,  teach  all  nations. 
Comes  on  the  night  air 

And  awakes  my  ear. 

Why  live  I  here  ?   The  vows  of  God  are  on  me. 

And  I  may  not  stop  to  play  with  shadows  or  pluck  earthly 
flowers 
Till  I  my  weary  pilgrimage  have  done. 

And  I  will  go ! 

I  may  no  longer  doubt  to  give  up  friends  and  idle  hopes, 
And  every  tie  that  binds  my  heart  to  worldly  joys. 

Henceforth  then  it  matters  not  if  storm  or  sunshine  be  my  earthly 

lot; 
Bitter  or  sweet  my  cup, — 
I  only  pray  God  make  me  holy  and  my  spirit  nerve  for  the  stern 

hour  of  strife. 

And  if  one  for  whom  Satan  hath  struggled  as  he  hath  for  me 

Shall  ever  reach  that  blessed  shore; 
O  how  this  heart  will  flame  with  gratitude  and  love  ! 

Through  ages  of  eternal  years, 

I'll  ne'er  regret 
That  toil  and  suffering 

Once  were  mine  below." 

i\2\y 


A  new  era  opened  for  missions  in  India  when  the  renewed 
charter  of  the  East  India  Company  gave  them  legal  standing. 
Reinforcements  in  Ceylon  made  it  possible  for  Spaulding  and 
Poor  to  enter  the  city  of  Madura  on  the  mainland,  where  they 
might  work  in  the  home  country  of  the  Tamils.  The  city  was 
the  center  of  a  broad  agricultural  area.  Definite  progress  was 
made.  Nearly  two  thousand  pupils  were  gathered  into  schools, 
new  stations  were  opened,  and  the  good  will  of  government 
and  people  was  won  through  the  wisdom  and  moderation  of 
the  men  of  Andover  who  founded  the  mission.  Miron  Wins- 
low,  a  classmate  of  Spaulding  in  the  Seminary,  was  sent  out 
to  Ceylon  after  his  graduation,  and  in  1836  was  transferred 
to  Madras.  That  city  became  the  center  of  a  publishing  enter- 
prise in  which  other  denominations  cooperated.  Winslow 
mastered  the  language  and  then  gave  much  of  his  time  to  a 
revision  of  the  Tamil  Bible.  When  time  permitted  he  toured 
through  the  interior,  sometimes  ranging  far.  Such  journeys 
were  both  exploratory  and  evangelistic.  In  the  formative 
period  of  missions  it  was  necessary  to  make  surveys  of  the 
territory  to  be  occupied  and  to  plan  carefully  for  future  de- 
velopment. To  reach  the  people  it  was  necessary  to  speak  in 
their  tongue.  Yet  the  educational  approach  seemed  the  best 
policy  because  it  was  gradual  and  would  lead  people  to  ac- 
cept the  gospel  intelligently.  The  press  was  of  similar  value 
with  the  school.  The  Bombay  printing-house  grew  in  size. 
A  Marathi  edition  of  the  Bible  was  issued  there,  while 
the  Tamil  edition  came  from  the  Madras  press.  Textbooks 
and  hymn  books  were  printed  for  school  and  church  use. 
Tracts  in  large  numbers  poured  from  the  presses,  and  even- 
tually books  for  the  increasing  public  who  could  read.  And 
when  difference  of  opinion  arose  among  British  missionaries 
whether  it  was  better  to  teach  the  people  of  India  through  the 
vernacular  or  the  English  language,  the  Andover  men  were 
combining  the  two  in  their  missions  in  Madura  and  Ceylon. 
Edward  Webb,  Andover,  1845,  rnade  a  contribution  that  en- 
titled him  to  be  called  the  father  of  Christian  Tamil  music, 
when  in  the  Madura  mission  he  took  the  native  pagan  music 
cultivated  through  the  Sanskrit,  discovered  a  native  Christian 


poet  who  wrote  Christian  songs,  and  married  the  music  and 
the  poetry.  From  that  time  the  native  Christians  enjoyed  the 
musical  part  of  worship.  Out  of  the  experience  came  the 
Madura  hymn  book  with  its  hundred  Christian  songs,  edited 
by  Webb. 

By  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century  the  missionary  work 
in  India  was  flourishing  and  new  methods  were  being  tried 
out.  Central  boarding-schools  branched  out  into  village 
schools,  more  preaching  was  undertaken,  new  churches  were 
organized,  the  beginnings  of  self-support  were  made,  and 
more  dependence  was  placed  on  native  leadership.  Caste  was 
a  troublesome  question,  and  attempts  to  check  it  were  liable 
to  wreck  a  mission.  It  required  the  wisest  kind  of  leadership 
to  know  when  and  how  to  attempt  radical  changes  in  popular 
customs  and  ideas. 

The  missionaries  who  had  gone  to  India  early  in  the  century 
were  feeling  the  effects  of  long  years  of  activity  in  a  foreign 
country  with  a  trying  climate,  but  they  kept  steadily  at  their 
task.  Winslow  was  prolific  in  his  literary  work  for  the  Tamils, 
especially  his  Tamil-English  dictionary.  Spaulding  passed  the 
half-century  mark  in  Ceylon,  and  lived  until  he  saw  the  mis- 
sion the  most  thoroughly  cultivated  of  any  of  the  Congrega- 
tional missions.  The  greatest  gain  of  the  middle  decades  was 
the  increasing  self-reliance  and  participation  of  the  Indian 
people  in  the  development  of  Christianity  in  their  country. 

By  1880  the  Marathi  mission  was  ready  to  celebrate  its 
semi-centennial.  Eight  stations,  seventy-six  out-stations,  and 
twenty-four  organized  churches,  with  schools  and  an  influ- 
ential press,  were  powerful  factors  in  keeping  the  Christian 
religion  before  the  people.  The  relief  given  by  the  missionaries 
during  the  years  of  famine  created  a  wave  of  friendly  feeling 
from  which  all  the  missions  benefited.  It  was  a  time  for  con- 
structive work,  especially  through  more  and  better  schools. 
Andover  alumni  played  no  small  part  in  the  progress  of  all 
three  of  the  India  missions.  Three  men  in  particular  were 
notable  leaders  of  the  period — Hume,  Jones,  and  Washburn. 

George  T.  Washburn  was  the  oldest  of  the  three.  A 
Williams  man  and  a  graduate  of  Andover  in  the  class  of  1858, 


he  went  out  to  India  in  i860  and  became  one  of  the  strong 
pillars  of  the  Madura  mission,  remaining  to  the  end  of  the 
century.  A  novel  contribution  was  the  True  News.  He 
founded  it  in  1870,  edited  it,  and  issued  it  as  a  semi-monthly 
newspaper  through  the  Pasumalai  Press.  He  carried  this  on 
as  a  part  of  his  duties  for  twenty-six  years.  His  major  work 
was  educational,  as  president  of  the  Pasumalai  Seminary  and 
then  of  the  College. 

Robert  A.  Hume  was  born  at  Bombay,  the  son  of  a  mis- 
sionary father.  After  a  college  course  at  Yale  and  two  years 
in  the  Divinity  School,  he  completed  his  theological  prepara- 
tion at  Andover  with  the  class  of  1873,  and  then  set  sail  for 
the  land  of  his  birth.  Locating  at  Ahmednagar,  he  made  that 
city  his  future  home  and  there  he  established  and  built  up  a 
theological  seminary.  His  constructive  labors  in  that  school 
and  the  variety  of  his  active  leadership  made  Hume  the  out- 
standing missionary  in  India.  Besides  his  care  of  the  Semi- 
nary he  had  the  superintendence  of  the  Parner  district  west 
of  the  city  for  forty  years.  He  sent  out  more  than  two  hundred 
personally  trained  evangelists  and  teachers,  and  many  churches 
and  schools  and  one  thousand  conversions  were  the  result. 
He  was  at  one  time  or  another  principal  of  boys'  and  girls' 
schools,  and  editor  of  an  Anglo-Marathi  periodical.  In 
addition  to  the  service  of  his  own  denominational  mission  he 
sustained  the  common  cause  of  Christianity,  serving  on  com- 
mittees of  various  organizations,  and  frequently  as  an  officer. 
He  was  district  secretary  of  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible 
Society,  president  of  the  All-India  Christian  Endeavor  Union, 
and  the  first  moderator  of  the  United  Church  of  Northern 
India,  of  which  the  Congregationalists  were  a  constituent 
member.  For  his  service  in  his  administration  of  funds  for 
famine  relief  in  the  closing  years  of  the  century  he  received 
the  Kaiser-i-Hind  medal  from  the  British  Government.  On  a 
furlough  to  the  United  States  in  1904- 1905  he  was  invited  to 
give  the  Hyde  lectures  at  Andover.  These  were  collected  and 
published  under  the  title  ''Missions  from  the  Modern  Point 
of  View,"  a  book  that  took  its  place  at  once  in  the  front  rank 
of  missionary  publications.    Altogether  Hume  saw  fifty-two 


years  of  service.  At  the  end  as  at  the  beginning  he  was  the 
same  simple,  efficient,  kindly  man,  fond  of  work  with  his 
brother  men,  and  interested  in  the  welfare  of  India  even  when 
his  active  ministry  was  over.  He  was  one  of  the  far-sighted 
leaders  who  helped  the  missionaries  make  the  transition  from 
the  nineteenth  to  the  twentieth  century. 

John  P.  Jones  was  Welsh-born,  only  six  months  younger 
than  Hume.  His  college  was  Western  Reserve  and  he  gradu- 
ated from  Andover  in  the  class  of  1878.  He  found  his  field 
of  labor  in  the  Madura  mission,  remaining  there  almost  forty 
years.  Soon  after  he  had  become  acclimated  and  acquired  a 
knowledge  of  the  people  and  their  language  he  was  put  in 
charge  of  the  Madura  mission,  and  from  that  time  he  was 
fully  occupied  with  the  direction  of  the  evangelistic  and  edu- 
cational operations.  He  kept  preaching  in  the  forefront  of 
activity,  and  saw  that  schools  were  planted  when  there  was 
need.  He  founded  the  first  Christian  high  school,  and  for 
twenty-two  years  was  principal  in  Pasumalai.  He  managed 
the  mission  press.  Like  Hume  he  received  the  Kaiser-i-Hind 
medal  for  his  efficiency  in  relief.  He  traveled  all  over  India 
and  Burma  as  president  of  the  South  India  Christian  Endeavor 
Union.  He  was  the  author  of  ''India's  Problem:  Krishna  or 
Christ,"  a  book  widely  read. 

It  was  the  yeoman  service  of  men  like  these  which  built 
solidly  the  Congregational  missions  of  India.  Nor  was  it  in 
their  leadership  alone.  Other  men  wrought  effectively  in  less 
conspicuous  positions,  doing  their  part  of  the  day's  work. 
Among  Andover  missionaries  during  this  period  or  not  long 
before  were  James  Herrick,  who  spent  nearly  forty  years  in 
the  Madura  district;  George  H.  Gutterson  of  the  same  mis- 
sion ;  William  A.  Ballantine,  a  medical  missionary ;  Henry 
J.  Bruce,  who  served  decade  after  decade  in  western  India, 
printing  religious  books  and  millions  of  leaflets ;  and  Edward 
Fairbank  and  Edward  P.  Holton,  classmates  at  Andover,  who 
each  found  a  place  for  himself  on  the  field. 

The  pioneer  of  the  American  Board  in  China  was  Elijah  C. 
Bridgman,  Andover  1829.  When  he  arrived  in  the  country 
Robert  Morrison  was  his  only  predecessor.    Studying  with 


him  when  he  was  not  permitted  to  preach,  he  prepared  himself 
for  education  and  translation,  and  he  edited  the  Chinese  Re- 
pository, a  monthly  established  to  inform  English-speaking 
people  about  the  Chinese.  His  later  life  was  spent  in  Bible 
translation  at  Shanghai.  Lyman  B.  Peet,  after  seven  years  on 
the  threshold  in  Siam.  settled  in  Foochow  after  the  Opium 
War  had  opened  the  ports,  and  remained  for  a  quarter  of  a 
century.  Henry  Blodget  served  in  Peking  and  other  cities 
for  forty  years,  was  one  of  the  translators  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment into  Alandarin,  and  translated  books  and  hymns  into 
Chinese.  Chauncy  Goodrich  followed  after  he  was  through 
at  Andover,  and  was  in  North  China  from  that  time.  Isaac 
Pierson  was  twenty-one  years  at  Pao-ting-fu.  Henry  D. 
Porter  and  Arthur  H.  Smith  were  both  in  the  class  of  1870 
at  Andover,  and  both  spent  long  terms  of  service  in  the  North 
China  mission.  Porter  was  trained  in  medicine,  and  was  able 
to  be  of  particular  service  in  the  famine  of  1878.  Smith  por- 
trayed village  life  in  China  in  his  books,  and  was  a  leader  in 
his  mission.  He  lived  until  1932.  William  S.  Ament  was  a 
missionary  at  Peking  when  the  Boxer  Uprising  occurred.  He 
knew  the  need  of  military  defence  against  those  who  hated 
foreigners  and  he  was  well  aware  that  without  money  it  was 
difficult  to  work  very  efficiently,  yet  he  showed  the  devoted 
spirit  of  all  the  missionaries  in  that  trying  time  when  he  wrote  : 
"I  would  rather  ride  a  little  donkey  from  village  to  village 
and  sleep  on  bricks  at  night,  with  the  privilege  of  testifying 
of  the  grace  of  God  and  communicating  a  little  hope  to  the 
dull  lives  of  this  people  than  anything  else."  William  P. 
Sprague  and  James  H.  Roberts  at  Kalgan,  Harlan  P.  Beach 
at  Tung-cho,  and  Charles  A.  Nelson  at  Canton,  also  belong 
on  the  roll  of  Andover  names  in  China. 

The  first  Andover  name  in  Japan  is  Daniel  C.  Greene,  An- 
dover 1869.  He  commenced  a  mission  in  Kyoto,  which  be- 
came one  of  the  centers  of  the  work  of  the  American  Board  in 
Japan.  His  is  one  of  the  prominent  names  in  the  missionary 
history  of  the  denomination.  The  Missionary  Herald,  sum- 
ming up  his  career,  testified:  ''Founder  of  the  American 
Board's  mission  in  Japan,  one  of  the  translators  of  the  Scrip- 


tures  into  Japanese,  educator,  author,  advisor  to  diplomats 
and  legislators,  father  in  the  work  to  later  missionaries,  presi- 
dent of  the  Asiatic  Society  of  Japan,  and  recipient  from  the 
emperor  of  Japan  of  the  Third  Order  of  the  Rising  Sun,  the 
highest  honor  ever  conferred  on  civilians  living  in  the  coun- 
try." He  was  a  member  of  the  committee  on  the  translation 
of  the  New  Testament,  and  for  several  years  was  professor 
of  New  Testament  exegesis  in  Doshisha  College.  The  Do- 
shisha  itself  is  one  of  the  trophies  of  American  education. 
Because  Joseph  Neesima  learned  what  American  seminaries, 
including  Andover,  could  do  for  him,  he  in  his  turn  founded 
the  college  as  a  Christian  university  in  Japan ;  and  though 
for  atime  it  lost  its  Christian  character,  it  was  a  powerful  in- 
fluence in  interpreting  Western  culture  to  Japan.  It  was  in 
1874  that  Neesima  was  at  Andover  engaged  in  special  studies. 
In  that  decade  Marquis  L.  Gordon  commenced  a  thirty-year 
ministry  at  Osaka  and  Kyoto,  two-thirds  of  the  time  a  pro- 
fessor in  Doshisha  College;  James  H.  Pettee  was  stationed 
at  Okayama;  and  his  classmate,  Otis  Cary,  another  of  the 
makers  of  the  Japanese  mission,  professor  in  the  Doshisha, 
and  interpreter  of  the  Japanese  Christians  to  America  and 
England  through  his  monumental  history  of  Christianity  in 
Japan.  Later  names  of  Andover  men  include  Samuel  C. 
Bartlet,  Sidney  L.  Gulick,  champion  of  the  Japanese  in  their 
differences  with  the  United  States  over  immigration,  Henry 
J.  Bennett,  and  Enoch  F.  Bell. 

Out  in  the  islands  of  the  Pacific  David  B.  Lyman  toiled 
faithfully  for  more  than  fifty  years,  and  Benjamin  W.  Parker 
for  forty-five  years,  part  of  the  time  in  the  Marquesas  Islands 
and  for  the  last  five  years  of  his  life  the  head  of  the  Hawaiian 
Theological  Seminary.  Mark  Ives  was  in  Hawaii  fifteen  years, 
and  George  B.  Rowell  exceeded  that  record  by  seven  years. 
Elsewhere  than  in  Hawaii  it  was  dangerous  business  to  explore 
and  attempt  to  deal  with  cannibals.  Lyman  and  Munson  were 
killed  in  the  Batak  country  in  1834.  George  Pearson  was 
able  to  devote  five  years  to  Micronesia,  where  the  American 
Board  cooperated  with  the  Hawaiian  Evangelical  Association 
in  the  farther  islands.    The  savagery  of  the  islanders  was 

i  127  y 


appalling,  the  distances  were  great  from  island  to  island.  It 
was  months  between  mails.  But  there  never  was  a  lack  of 
those  who  were  willing  to  make  the  sacrifice  for  the  sake  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus.  The  construction  of  the  first  missionary 
ship  was  a  venture,  but  the  contributions  of  the  children  of 
American  churches  and  Sunday  schools  amounted  to  twelve 
thousand  dollars,  sufficient  to  meet  the  cost  of  the  Morning 
Star;  a  farewell  meeting  was  held  in  Park  Street  Church, 
Boston,  for  Hiram  Bingham,  Jr.,  Andover  1857,  ^^^  his  wife, 
and  the  new  ship  turned  its  prow  to  the  South  Sea.  Twenty- 
one  weeks  later  the  ship  arrived  at  Honolulu,  where  his  father 
had  wrought  mightily  for  God.  Then  on  to  the  Gilbert  Islands, 
where  the  son  took  up  his  own  task.  Later  he  cruised  among 
the  islands  as  captain  of  Morning  Star,  No.  2,  returned  to 
Honolulu  on  account  of  ill  health,  but  improved  the  oppor- 
tunity to  prepare  literature  for  the  Gilbert  Islanders,  trans- 
lated the  Bible,  hymn  books  and  his  own  commentaries  into 
Gilbertese,  and  prepared  a  Bible  dictionary. 

Another  Hawaiian  missionary's  son  was  Oliver  P.  Emerson, 
Andover  1871,  who,  after  pastorates  in  the  United  States, 
performed  secretarial  service  in  Hawaii.  Joel  F.  Whitney 
was  his  classmate,  and  he  spent  ten  of  the  early  years  of  his 
life  in  Micronesia. 

The  South  Sea  islands  and  the  Far  East  had  the  lure  of  the 
far  distance  and  the  wide  spaces ;  the  Near  East  provided 
a  better  civilization,  but  with  difficulties  almost  as  great.  The 
minds  of  the  people  were  encrusted  with  the  barnacles  of  their 
static  formal  religions.  Ancient  speculative  dogmas  and  mean- 
ingless rituals  had  choked  the  life  of  the  inner  spirit.  Syrian 
and  Armenian,  Greek  and  Bulgarian,  each  believed  his  own 
form  of  religion  superior  to  the  others,  and  the  Turk  scoffed 
at  them  all  as  inferior  to  his  own  Mohammedanism.  It  was 
sterile  soil  for  the  missionary's  seed,  but  he  kept  sowing  it 
even  if  little  sprouted.  Andover  men  had  a  distinguished  part 
in  the  patient  cultivation  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Seventy- 
nine  names  belong  to  the  roll  of  honor  of  the  Near  East  in 
Andover's  one  hundred  years  ;  merely  to  list  them  is  impossible. 

Elias  Riggs  was  one  of  those  sturdy  pioneers  who  never  can 

4128f 


be  overlooked.  Leaving  the  Seminary  in  1832,  he  served  an 
apprenticeship  in  Greece  and  then  for  fifteen  years  made  his 
headquarters  at  Smyrna,  preaching  and  preparing  textbooks 
for  the  Greeks.  A  visit  from  two  of  the  American  Board  at 
home  awakened  an  interest  among  the  Armenians,  and 
changed  the  direction  of  missionary  activity  from  the  Greeks 
to  them.  In  harmony  with  the  new  plan  Riggs  was  transferred 
to  Constantinople.  Already  he  had  learned  Bulgarian,  and 
subsequently  he  translated  the  whole  Bible  into  that  language. 
At  Constantinople  his  workshop  turned  out  biblical  material, 
translations  and  dictionaries,  grammars  and  commentaries,  in 
Turkish,  Bulgarian,  Armenian,  and  Chaldee.  Busy  as  he  was, 
he  hardly  counted  the  years  as  sixty-seven  of  them  rolled  by 
until  at  last  the  toll  of  them  was  over  and  he  was  laid  to  rest 
in  1901.  In  all  that  long  time  he  visited  America  but  once, 
when  his  health  compelled,  and  then  he  superintended  the 
electrotyping  of  the  Armenian  Bible  in  New  York  City  and 
taught  Hebrew  at  Union  Theological  Seminary.  Though  ab- 
sent he  was  not  forgotten,  and  American  colleges  fitly  hon- 
ored him  with  academic  degrees. 

Harrison  G.  O.  Dwight  Hved  for  thirty  years  among  the 
Armenians  before  his  life  was  cut  short  by  a  railroad  accident 
in  America  when  he  was  on  furlough.  He  saw  the  Armenian 
mission  grow  from  one  station  at  Constantinople  to  twenty- 
three  stations  and  eighty-one  out-stations  scattered  through- 
out the  Armenian  country.  Forty-two  churches  had  recruited 
sixteen  hundred  members,  and  almost  two  hundred  pastors 
and  teachers  were  at  work.  So  rapid  were  the  gains  of  thirty 
years.  Dwight  was  spiritually  minded,  kindly,  tactful  but 
resolute,  and  statesmanlike  in  his  policies.  He  encouraged 
self-support  of  native  institutions.  His  death  left  vacant  a 
place  that  was  hard  to  fill.  It  was  among  the  Armenians  that 
William  Goodell  spent  thirty-four  years  of  his  missionary  life, 
translating  the  Bible  into  the  Armeno-Turkish  language.  Dis- 
turbances of  various  kinds  compelled  him  to  pack  up  and  move 
thirty-three  times  in  twenty-nine  years,  but  he  gloried  in  his 
service.  Benjamin  Schneider  left  Andover  in  1833  and  until 
1877  he  was  busy  trying  to  keep  pace  with  the  rapid  develop- 

H129V 


ment  of  the  Armenian  mission,  and  with  all  his  other  activities 
he  translated  books  and  tracts. 

A  few  references  like  these  to  the  Armenian  mission  convey 
little  impression  of  the  extent  or  intensity  of  the  missionary 
enterprise  among  the  Armenians.  Particularly  effective  was 
the  educational  endeavor  carried  on  at  Aintab,  Marsovan, 
and  other  centers.  Over  in  Persia  where  the  pioneers  had 
sought  out  the  Nestorians,  Justin  Perkins  ended  his  labors  of 
thirty-six  years,  which  included  the  whole  time  from  the  be- 
ginning of  the  mission  until  it  was  transferred  to  the  Presby- 
terians. Like  so  many  other  of  the  missionaries  he  was  eminent 
in  Bible  translation.  But  he  had  a  part  also  in  establishing  the 
eighty-five  Christian  centers  and  twenty-four  hundred  con- 
gregations, and  in  helping  the  hundreds  of  students  in  Chris- 
tian schools.  Nor  was  he  the  only  Andover  man  to  labor  in 
Persia.  The  class  of  1859  gave  Ambrose  for  a  short  term  and 
Labaree  and  Shedd  for  long  service. 

The  Syrian  mission  was  in  time  transferred  to  the  Presby- 
terians, but  not  until  Eli  Smith  had  made  his  translation  of 
the  Bible  into  Arabic,  had  used  his  knowledge  of  Hebrew, 
Turkish,  Italian,  French,  and  German  to  widen  the  usefulness 
of  the  missionary  press,  had  explored  as  far  as  the  Nestorian 
country,  and  had  helped  Robinson  in  his  Palestinian  re- 
searches. He  was  Hopkinsian  in  his  theology,  and  he  preached 
in  Arabic  the  truths  of  the  gospel  as  he  understood  them. 
William  Bird  was  in  Syria  for  a  half  century.  Daniel  BHss 
went  from  Andover  about  the  time  that  Smith  died,  founded 
the  Syrian  Protestant  College  at  Beirut,  and  saw  it  grow  in 
thirty-six  years  from  sixteen  to  six  hundred  students.  He 
wrote  philosophical  textbooks  in  Arabic.  Edwin  E.  Bliss 
spent  an  equal  length  of  time  in  publication  work  in  Constan- 
tinople, including  a  newspaper  issued  in  three  languages, 
which  circulated  among  ten  thousand  readers.  In  the  same 
city  of  Constantinople  William  G.  Schauffler  labored  among 
the  Spanish  Jews  living  there,  and  prepared  the  Bible,  a  gram- 
mar, and  a  lexicon  in  their  language.  Later  he  gave  his  time 
to  the  Mohammedans.  C.  F.  Morse  opened  the  Bulgarian 
mission    at    Adrianople,    William    W.    Meriam    worked    at 


Philippopolis  until  he  was  murdered  by  brigands,  and  William 
Arms  was  located  near  by.  In  Bulgaria  James  F.  Clarke  had 
one  of  the  records  of  almost  fifty  years,  which  would  seem 
wonderful  if  not  repeated  so  many  times..  In  1872  George  D. 
Marsh  went  from  Andover  to  Bulgaria  for  a  long  lifetime  of 
service.  Soon  after  he  arrived  a  more  rapid  development  be- 
gan, which  brought  more  participation  of  native  workers,  and 
an  increased  number  of  converts.  Henry  C.  Haskell,  Andover 
1862,  who  spent  twenty-five  years  in  Bulgaria,  wrote  to  the 
Society  of  Inquiry  at  the  Seminary  that  in  spite  of  all  the  tra- 
ditions of  Christianity  that  the  people  had  had  for  a  thousand 
years  their  moral  and  spiritual  condition  showed  the  utter 
inability  of  their  form  of  religion  to  bring  the  people  into  fel- 
lowship with  God.  This  justified  all  the  efforts  of  American 
Congregationalists  in  a  nominally  Christian  land. 

George  F.  Herrick  had  an  almost  unparalleled  record  in 
Turkey.  He  graduated  from  Andover  in  the  class  of  1859, 
sailed  for  Constantinople  that  autumn  and  was  there  at  inter- 
vals until  1893,  when  he  made  it  his  permanent  residence.  At 
one  time  he  was  teaching  in  the  theological  seminary  at  Mar- 
sovan,  at  another  time  was  president  of  Anatolia  College. 
For  five  years  he  served  on  a  committee  of  three  in  the  revis- 
ion of  the  Bible  into  the  Turkish  and  Armenian  languages, 
and  he  translated  theological  textbooks  and  commentaries  into 
Greek  as  well  as  Turkish  and  Armenian.  The  disasters  that 
overcame  the  Armenian  mission  after  the  World  War,  and 
the  growing  tide  of  religious  skepticism  in  the  lands  of  the 
Near  East,  cannot  dim  the  glory  of  these  men  and  women 
whose  blessed  influence  brightened  and  ennobled  the  life  of 
their  generations  for  a  century. 

In  Africa  the  small  beginnings  that  Grout  and  Champion 
made  in  the  Zulu  country  were  reinforced  at  the  middle  of  the 
century.  Lewis  Grout  remained  there  for  sixteen  years ;  half 
of  that  time  the  progress  was  very  slow,  but  before  he  returned 
to  America  he  felt  himself  rewarded.  Thereafter  missionaries 
found  more  time  to  engage  in  education.  William  Ireland 
went  from  Andover  to  spend  forty  years  in  the  mission. 
George  R.  Ferguson  of  the  class  of  1859  became  a  missionary 


of  the  Dutch  Reformed  Church  and  principal  of  the  Mission- 
ary Training  School  at  WelHngton.  Erwin  H.  Richards  was 
commissioned  by  the  American  Board,  and  later  was  under  the 
direction  of  the  Methodists.  The  Zulu  mission  had  a  self- 
propagating  power  through  native  evangelists.  Herbert  D. 
Goodenough,  arriving  in  1881,  ministered  in  education  and 
administration.  The  outstanding  Andover  figure  in  West 
Africa  is  William  Walker,  who  in  the  tropical  Gaboon  terri- 
tory remained  in  service  for  thirty  years,  returned  to  America 
in  the  service  of  the  American  Board  for  five  years,  and  then 
went  back  to  Africa  under  the  Presbyterian  Board  for  six 
years  longer. 

A  few  men  from  Andover  Hill  found  their  posts  in  Latin 
American  countries.  In  an  environment  of  ignorant,  super- 
stitious Catholics  and  under  governments  that  were  unfriendly 
to  Protestants,  it  was  exceedingly  slow  and  discouraging  work, 
but  Nathaniel  P.  Gilbert  was  in  Peru  and  Chile  for  a  number 
of  years,  and  Theodore  S.  Pond  after  twenty  years  in  the 
Near  East  commenced  an  extended  period  of  service  in  the 
northern  part  of  South  America,  first  in  Colombia  and  then 
in  Venezuela.  Mexico  claimed  more  of  Andover's  sons.  James 
D.  Eaton,  Andover  1872,  opened  the  Northern  Mexican  mis- 
sion at  Chihuahua  in  1882.  His  experience  was  typical  of  other 
missionaries  in  the  same  country.  The  Roman  Catholic  Church 
was  losing  its  grip,  but  was  fighting  to  retain  it.  The  local 
Catholic  authorities  nailed  to  the  church  door  a  notice  that 
any  one  who  did  not  boycott  the  missionary  would  be  excom- 
municated, yet  in  twenty  years  the  local  Protestant  church 
took  into  membership  two  hundred  and  fifty  persons,  and 
fourteen  other  churches  had  been  organized  in  the  State  of 
Chihuahua.  One  of  the  churches  was  so  inaccessible  that  it 
took  thirty  days  to  make  the  journey  there  on  muleback. 

Congregational  missionaries  to  the  Americari  Indians  in 
the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth  century  operated  under  the 
American  Board,  and  among  them  were  several  Andover  men. 
Cyrus  Kingsbury  of  the  Andover  class  of  181 5  went  to  the 
South  and  served  as  Congregational  missionary  to  the  Chero- 
kees  and  Choctaws  for  forty-two  years.   He  went  with  them 

AU2Y 


when  they  removed  west  to  the  Indian  Territory,  and  after 
1859  was  commissioned  for  eleven  years  by  the  Southern 
Presbyterian  Board,  thus  completing  fifty-three  years  of  mis- 
sionary service.  Alfred  Wright  of  the  next  class  was  with  the 
Indians  for  thirty-four  years,  Cyrus  Byington  was  missionary 
to  the  Choctaws  for  nearly  fifty  years.  Samuel  A.  Worcester, 
graduating  from  Andover  seven  years  after  Wright,  gave 
the  same  length  of  service  to  the  Cherokees.  These  men  felt 
keenly  the  injustice  that  Georgia  forced  upon  the  United 
States  Government  in  its  dealings  with  the  Indians,  and  they 
were  glad  to  accompany  them  when  possible  on  their  arduous 
journey  west.  It  was  the  policy  of  the  missionaries  to  train 
the  Indians  to  be  useful  in  the  manual  arts,  and  to  give  them 
an  education  as  well  as  to  teach  them  the  truth  about  religion. 
Encouraging  progress  was  made  in  the  South,  but  the  whites 
wanted  the  Indian  lands  and  tried  to  get  rid  of  the  mission- 
aries. When  Worcester  stood  by  his  mission  he  was  thrown 
into  prison  and  kept  there  for  fifteen  months. 

With  the  scattering  of  the  southern  Indians  the  American 
Board  pushed  out  its  stations  among  the  northern  Indians 
also,  even  as  far  as  the  Pacific  coast,  but  small  results  were 
gained.  Cutting  Marsh,  Andover  1829,  was  sent  by  the  Amer- 
ican Board  to  work  among  the  Stockbridge  Indians,  who  at 
that  time  were  in  the  region  of  the  Great  Lakes.  Seventy  of 
these  Indians  were  gathered  into  church  membership.  From 
Andover  Boutwell,  Hall,  and  Wheeler  went  to  the  Ojibwas 
and  settled  in  Minnesota;  Wright,  Bliss,  Wight,  and  Ford 
sought  out  the  Senecas  in  New  York ;  Edmund  McKinney 
found  his  way  to  the  Choctaws  and  the  Omaha  Indians,  Willey 
to  the  Cherokees,  and  Ranney  to  the  Pawnees  and  Cherokees. 
All  these  were  in  service  before  1850.  It  was  of  course  impos- 
sible to  do  more  than  ease  the  transition  to  civilization  for  a 
vanishing  race,  but  the  missionaries  were  as  earnest  in  their 
work  in  America  as  were  the  workers  on  foreign  fields. 

Perhaps  in  no  way  did  Andover  men  render  more  distin- 
guished service  than  in  their  literary  labors.  The  missionaries 
who  had  known  the  serviceableness  of  the  Andover  Press 
valued  printing  as  one  of  the  best  means  for  the  propagation 

-{  133  }■ 


of  Christianity,  and  they  emulated  Professor  Stuart  in  their 
diligence  in  preparing  literary  material  for  the  printer.  Pa- 
tiently studying  native  tongues,  sometimes  creating  a  written 
language,  and  then  translating  the  Bible  by  laborious  process 
extending  over  years,  the  missionaries  made  the  Scriptures 
available  in  the  vernacular  for  Tamil  and  Marathi,  for  Turk 
and  Armenian,  for  Greek  and  barbarian,  for  Kanaka  and 
Cherokee,  and  even  for  the  natives  of  Africa.  The  necessary 
helps  of  dictionary  and  grammar  and  commentary  accom- 
panied Bible  translation.  Textbooks  for  school  use  and  tracts 
to  carry  the  gospel  message  came  from  the  missionary  presses, 
and  now  and  then  especially  useful  books  in  English  were 
translated  for  the  benefit  of  the  native  Christians. 

As  the  nineteenth  century  drew  toward  its  close  the  Society 
of  Inquiry  wrote  letters  to  prominent  missionaries  in  the  Near 
and  Far  East,  asking  for  first-hand  information  about  their 
activities.  The  replies  of  the  missionaries,  busy  men  as  they 
were,  showed  an  appreciation  of  the  interest  of  the  students 
in  writing  them.  Hume  of  India,  Smith  of  China  and  Her- 
rick  of  Turkey,  expressed  cordial  interest  in  the  Seminary 
that  had  mothered  them,  and  hoped  that  students  would  not 
fail  to  follow  on  to  the  mission  field.  Every  one  of  them  after 
long  years  of  experience  rejoiced  in  his  task  and  thought  of 
nothing  more  desirable  than  to  carry  on  as  long  as  God  should 
give  life  and  strength.  William  A.  Earns  worth,  Andover 
1852,  after  forty-six  years  of  service,  writing  from  Caesarea, 
told  of  his  care  of  a  territory  six  times  as  large  as  Massa- 
chusetts with  thirty-four  communities  that  must  be  visited 
at  least  once  a  year.  He  explained  to  the  students  at  Andover 
that  the  missionary  must  know  how  to  deal  with  men,  to  read 
character,  to  sympathize  with  every  need,  and  to  aid  the  dis- 
tressed ;  in  short,  hardly  any  good  quality  of  head  or  heart 
would  fail  to  be  summoned  to  his  help.  A  missionary  in  Cey- 
lon suggested  that,  since  several  of  the  early  members  of  the 
Society  of  Inquiry  had  been  founders  of  the  Ceylon  mission, 
it  would  be  fitting  for  present  and  future  members  of  the 
Society  to  build  several  inexpensive  schools  in  the  island  to 
celebrate  the  centennial  of  the  mission. 

iU4y 


The  celebration  of  the  hundredth  anniversary  of  the  Amer- 
ican Board  in  Boston  included  a  visit  to  Andover  and  the 
placing  of  a  tablet  to  the  memory  of  that  little  company  of 
Brethren  which  made  the  nucleus  of  the  mighty  enterprise 
which  had  gone  around  the  world.  After  a  century  the  Board 
was  spending  a  million  dollars  a  year,  and  was  sponsoring  six 
hundred  missionaries.  Andover  had  a  brilliant  record  in  mis- 
sionary service.  In  the  first  ten  years  every  missionary  but 
one  was  trained  on  the  Hill.  One  hundred  and  twenty  went 
abroad  in  the  first  fifty  years.  During  the  century  two  hun- 
dred and  forty-eight  alumni  had  answered  the  Macedonian 
call.  The  five  hundred  visitors  who  went  to  Andover  by  special 
train  and  wended  their  way  to  the  Missionary  Woods  near 
the  Seminary  felt  the  thrill  of  it  all.  The  exercises  of  the  hour 
of  dedication  were  impressive.  The  tablet  was  unveiled  and 
prayer  was  offered  by  relatives  of  the  pioneers,  Richards 
and  Hall.  The  large  company  sang  the  missionary  hymn,  "The 
Morning  Light  Is  Breaking,"  which  was  written  by  Samuel 
Francis  Smith  while  a  student  in  Brick  Row.  The  tablet  was 
affixed  to  a  granite  boulder  erected  by  the  citizens  of  Andover, 
and  bore  the  impressive  inscription : 

"In  the  'Missionary  Woods'  once  extending  to  this  spot  the  first 
missionary  students  of  Andover  Seminary  walked  and  talked  one 
hundred  years  ago,  and  on  this  secluded  knoll  met  to  pray.  In 
memory  of  these  men 

Adoniram  Judson  Samuel  Nott  Samuel  J.  Mills 

Samuel  Newell  Gordon  Hall  James  Richards 

Luther  Rice 

whose  consecrated  purpose  to  carry  the  gospel  to  the  heathen  world 
led  to  the  formation  of  the  first  American  society  for  foreign  mis- 
sions. In  recognition  of  the  248  missionaries  trained  in  Andover 
Seminary  and  in  gratitude  to  Almighty  God,  this  stone  is  set  up 
in  the  Centennial  year  of  the  American  Board,  1910." 


i  135  y 


CHAPTER    VII 

ANDOVER  MEN  IN  EDUCATION  AND 
LITERATURE 


TO  study  on  Andover  Hill  was  to  expand  the  horizons 
of  thought  as  well  as  of  sympathy.  To  pass  in  review 
the  centuries  of  history  and  think  other  men's  thoughts 
after  them  was  like  breathing  the  invigorating  atmosphere  of 
the  hills.  To  muse  upon  the  problems  of  philosophy  and  the- 
ology was  like  climbing  a  mountain  range  to  view  a  region  in 
perspective.  As  was  said  at  the  Centennial  in  1908:  Old 
Andover  had  the  spirit  of  '*  creative  imagination  able  to  dis- 
cover the  universal  in  the  particular  and  to  make  of  the 
famiHar  experiences  of  a  New  England  village  a  stage  broad 
enough  on  which  to  pass  in  review  the  procession  of  the 
eternities." 

It  was  this  characteristic  which  qualified  Andover  men  to 
become  educators.  They  did  not  have  the  special  knowledge 
of  a  modern  doctor  of  philosophy  or  the  pedagogical  methods 
of  the  best  normal  schools  of  the  present  day,  but  at  least  they 
knew  how  to  think  and  to  prod  other  minds  to  think.  Not 
many  schools  of  that  time  were  so  well  qualified  as  Andover 
to  give  the  intellectual  training  that  was  needed  for  the  teach- 
ing profession.  In  the  first  decade  the  colleges  were  seldom 
above  junior  grade  and  their  graduates  were  not  mature.  The 
three  years  in  the  professional  school  added  much  to  the  in- 
tellectual equipment.  Another  reason  why  theological  grad- 
uates should  be  chosen  as  college  presidents  was  the  custom 
of  selecting  a  minister  and  expecting  him  to  teach  philosophy, 
if  not  theology.  The  increasing  number  of  new  schools  on  the 
frontier  as  well  as  the  older  New  England  institutions  made 
a  heavy  demand  for  teachers  in  college  and  academy.    It  is 

^136)> 


these  considerations  that  make  it  easier  to  understand  why 
so  remarkable  a  succession  of  educators  should  be  found 
among  Andover  alumni. 

It  is  impressive  to  call  the  roll  of  colleges  that  invited  An- 
dover men  to  be  their  presidents.  In  New  England  they 
include  Bowdoin  and  Dartmouth,  Middlebury  and  the  Uni- 
versity of  Vermont  in  the  northern  tier  of  states;  Amherst, 
Smith  and  Brown  in  Massachusetts  and  Rhode  Island.  In 
New  York  were  Hamilton,  Union,  and  Vassar.  Five  were  in 
Ohio  :  Antioch,  Marietta,  Oberlin,  Western  Reserve,  and  Ohio 
Female  College.  Moving  steadily  westward  one  finds  Andover 
alumni  at  Wabash,  Indiana,  Illinois  and  Knox  in  Illinois, 
Drury  in  Missouri,  Washburn  in  Kansas,  Colorado  among 
the  Rockies,  and  Pomona  in  California.  In  a  more  northerly 
latitude  are  Adrian  and  Olivet  in  Michigan,  Beloit  in  Wis- 
consin, Iowa  College  in  Iowa,  and  Fargo  in  North  Dakota. 
Howard  University  in  Washington,  D.  C,  Atlanta  in  Georgia, 
Rollins  in  Florida,  Fisk  in  Tennessee,  and  state  colleges  in 
Alabama  and  Tennessee,  gave  wide  representation  to  Andover 
in  the  South.  For  good  measure  the  universities  of  Wiscon- 
sin and  Kansas  should  be  added.  And  overseas  were  Robert 
College  in  Constantinople  and  the  Syrian  Protestant  College 
at  Beirut.  Among  the  personal  names  are  some  of  the  greatest 
presidents  in  the  history  of  these  institutions.  It  is  enough 
to  name  Hyde  of  Bowdoin,  Tucker  of  Dartmouth,  Marsh  of 
Vermont,  Stearns  and  Harris  of  Amherst,  Seelye  of  Amherst, 
and  Wayland  of  Brown,  men  illustrious  in  the  ecclesiastical 
as  well  as  the  educational  history  of  New  England. 

Names  like  these  connected  with  the  best  colleges  and  uni- 
versities of  the  East  give  distinction  to  any  school  that  has 
helped  to  train  them,  but  less  known  colleges  on  the  frontier 
have  their  heroic  leaders  whose  achievements  add  lustre  to 
the  schools  where  they  found  themselves.  Out  in  the  North- 
west where  the  wheat  fields  reach  to  the  horizon  in  summer 
and  blizzards  blot  out  that  same  horizon  in  the  dead  of  winter 
is  a  college  which  does  not  forget  to  honor  the  man  who  made 
it.  Joseph  Ward  graduated  from  Andover  in  the  class  of  1868. 
He  had  been  in  the  army  and  the  Christian  Commission  during 


the  Civil  War  and  then  had  completed  his  course  at  Brown. 
He  went  to  Andover  Seminary  in  the  fall  of  that  year  and 
graduated  at  the  age  of  thirty,  a  man  ready  for  the  challenge 
of  a  big  task.  It  came  to  him  from  South  Dakota.  For  four- 
teen years  he  grew  into  power  in  the  community  and  the  state 
while  he  served  as  a  home  missionary  pastor  in  Yankton.  He 
had  the  joy  of  welcoming  the  Dakota  Band  from  Yale  College, 
and  helping  to  place  the  men  in  strategic  locations.  The  people 
of  Yankton  made  Ward  superintendent  of  the  local  schools, 
then  he  became  a  member  of  the  State  Board  of  Education. 
In  1883  he  was  elected  a  member  of  the  Constitutional  Con- 
vention of  the  Territory  which  was  becoming  a  State.  People 
trusted  his  leadership,  for  they  knew  his  character  and  ability. 
He  matched  swords  with  politicians  and  beat  them.  Then, 
as  if  he  had  not  spent  his  life  in  public  service  already,  he  gave 
the  rest  of  the  time  that  was  his  to  the  creation  of  a  college. 
Yankton  College  is  his  monument.  He  rallied  the  youth  of 
the  region  for  an  education,  and  went  East  for  the  money  to 
build  the  college.  He  assumed  the  presidency  and  taught 
mental  and  moral  philosophy  from  the  beginning.  He  selected 
the  Faculty.  Before  he  was  fairly  engaged  in  the  enterprise 
he  lectured  at  Andover  on  "The  Building  of  Society  in  the 
New  States."  He  had  only  a  few  years  left  for  service  but 
he  filled  them  full.  He  belongs  among  the  builders  of  the  West. 

With  these  administrators  belong  Cecil  F.  P.  Bancroft,  who 
was  the  able  principal  of  Phillips  Academy  at  Andover  for 
twenty-eight  years,  and  his  successor,  Alfred  E.  Stearns,  who 
between  1900  and  1933  reconstructed  the  Academy  into  a 
modern  institution  in  the  front  rank  of  its  kind.  Samuel  H. 
Taylor  was  over  an  equal  period  of  time  an  outstanding  fig- 
ure as  a  teacher  of  the  classics.  At  Phillips  Academy,  Exeter, 
Gideon  L.  Soule  spent  half  a  century,  including  thirty-five 
years  of  administration  as  principal. 

One  hundred  and  fifty  professors  of  colleges  were  Andover 
alumni.  The  first  class  contributed  a  professor  of  mathe- 
matics and  natural  philosophy  to  the  University  of  Vermont, 
the  second  another  to  a  similar  chair  at  Yale.  The  four  classes 
from  1817  to  1820  sent  presidents  to  Wabash  and  Western 


Reserve,  and  professors  to  institutions  as  far  apart  as  Bow- 
doin,  West  Point,  University  of  North  Carolina,  and  the 
Episcopal  Theological  Seminary  in  Virginia.  Among  the  illus- 
trious names  of  later  years  are  George  P.  Fisher  of  Yale, 
Charles  A.  Young  of  Princeton,  Jeremiah  L.  Diman  of  Brown, 
Edward  P.  Crowell  of  Amherst,  Joseph  H.  Thayer  and  George 
H.  Palmer  of  Harvard,  Moses  C.  Tyler  of  Cornell,  and  Samuel 
V.  Cole,  who  made  Wheaton  Seminary  into  a  woman's  college. 

Andover's  position  as  a  pioneer  among  seminaries  fitted  her 
to  train  men  to  teach  in  other  divinity  schools.  Yale  and  Har- 
vard profited  thereby,  as  did  the  Episcopal  schools  at  Cam- 
bridge and  Alexandria,  and  Lane  Seminary,  the  Presbyterian 
school  in  Ohio.  The  first  two  professors  at  Newton  Theo- 
logical Institution,  I  rah  Chase  and  Henry  B.  Ripley,  were 
Andover  alumni,  and  they  modeled  the  Baptist  seminary  after 
Andover.  Horatio  B.  Hackett,  renowned  as  a  Greek  scholar 
in  his  time,  trained  theological  students  at  Newton  and 
Rochester.  No  less  than  eleven  men  went  from  Andover  to 
chairs  in  the  seminary  at  Bangor.  George  W.  Andrews  of  the 
class  of  1867  trained  ministers  among  the  Negroes  for  forty 
years  at  Talladega  College  in  Alabama.  John  W.  Buckham 
of  the  class  of  1888  went  to  the  Pacific  coast.  And  on  the 
foreign  mission  field  it  was  Andover  men  who  taught  native 
preachers  in  many  of  the  mission  schools. 

These  men  are  representatives  of  scores  of  others.  To  list 
a  catalogue  of  them  is  far  less  impressive  than  to  sit  down 
and  study  the  record  of  their  lives.  Most  of  them  were 
teachers  of  subjects  akin  to  the  theological  discipline,  some 
of  them  famous  men  in  the  theological  departments.  Not 
least  among  their  contributions  was  the  number  of  men  who 
were  chosen  to  fill  places  on  the  Faculty  of  the  institution 
itself,  Andover  alumni  for  Andover  Seminary.  Among  them 
are  Park  and  Phelps,  Tucker,  Harris,  and  Hincks,  Smyth 
and  Churchill,  and  thirteen  less  known  to  Andover  men  of 
recent  years. 

There  are  other  alumni  of  the  Seminary  who  rendered 
unique  service  in  administrative  positions,  sometimes  akin 
to  an  educator  but  in  other  cases  far  removed. 


Thomas  H.  Gallaudet  graduated  from  Andover  in  1814  with 
bright  prospects  for  success  in  the  ministry,  but  his  interest 
in  the  deaf  and  dumb  turned  him  aside.  Presently  he  accepted 
an  appointment  to  become  the  head  of  the  Connecticut  asylum 
for  such  defectives  at  Hartford  and  he  established  it  on  firm 
foundations.  Later  in  life  he  was  chaplain  of  a  county  prison 
and  then  of  the  Connecticut  Retreat  for  the  Insane.  He  was 
prominent  in  philanthropical  societies,  a  writer,  and  an  ac- 
ceptable preacher.  Louis  Dwight,  Andover  1819,  gave  most 
of  his  life  to  work  for  prisoners.  He  was  the  wheel-horse  of 
the  Boston  Prison  Discipline  Society  for  thirty  years,  and  the 
inspiration  of  the  daily  morning  prayer  meetings  in  the  Old 
South  Chapel  of  Boston.  A  younger  alumnus  by  forty  years, 
William  J.  Batt,  was  chaplain  of  the  Massachusetts  Reform- 
atory at  Concord,  where  in  twenty-five  years  sixteen  thou- 
sand prisoners  came  under  his  influence.  George  Dustan  was 
chaplain  at  the  Insane  Retreat  and  Superintendent  of  the 
Orphan  Asylum  at  Hartford. 

Moses  Smith,  Alvah  L.  Frisbie,  Asa  S.  Fisk,  and  John  E. 
Goodrich,  were  among  the  army  chaplains  of  the  Civil  War, 
and  filled  places  of  large  usefulness  afterwards  in  church  and 
college  and  secretarial  chair.  Walter  Cotton  was  chaplain 
in  a  military  academy,  then  in  the  United  States  Navy.  While 
stationed  on  the  Pacific  coast  he  was  made  alcalde,  or  chief 
magistrate,  of  Monterey,  California,  during  an  emergency. 

Andover  men  turned  their  energies  and  abilities  in  many 
different  directions.  One  man  wrote  the  Conversation  Corner 
for  the  Congregationalist ;  another,  the  son  of  the  inventor 
of  the  Fairbanks  Scales,  became  himself  an  inventor  and  took 
out  more  than  thirty  patents ;  one  man  became  an  eminent 
microscopist,  and  another  a  college  lecturer  on  ornithology. 
Henry  A.  Schaufiler  fathered  the  Slavic  department  at  Ober- 
lin  and  the  Cleveland  Training  School ;  Judah  Isaac  Abraham 
was  a  missionary  of  the  American  Society  for  Ameliorating 
the  Condition  of  the  Jews ;  Samuel  W.  Dike  occupied  a  unique 
place  as  organizer  and  for  twenty-eight  years  secretary  of 
the  National  Divorce  Reform  League,  working  at  the  same 
time  to  introduce  social  subjects  into  educational  institutions. 


Daniel  W.  Waldron  for  forty  years  was  connected  with  the 
City  Missionary  Society  of  Boston,  and  sixteen  years  its 
secretary.  Full  of  energy  and  devotion,  he  had  oversight  of 
an  agency  which  visited  thirty  thousand  families  in  a  year, 
aided  four  thousand  sick,  distributed  sixty  thousand  papers 
and  tracts,  held  hundreds  of  meetings  and  brought  children 
into  Sunday  schools  and  adults  into  church  membership  in 
surprising  numbers.  With  the  rest  of  his  obligations  he  was 
chaplain  of  the  Massachusetts  House  of  Representatives. 

It  would  be  idle  to  attempt  to  enumerate  the  men  who 
served  as  secretaries  of  denominational  and  undenominational 
organizations.  They  commenced  their  activities  very  early  in 
the  history  of  the  institution,  when  new  organizations  were 
coming  into  existence  rapidly,  and  they  continued  to  direct 
such  enterprises  through  the  first  Andover  century,  until 
more  than  two  hundred  and  fifty  men  had  occupied  such 
positions  in  seventy-two  different  societies.  The  American 
Tract  Society  used  thirty-two,  the  American  Home  Mis- 
sionary Society  twenty-four,  and  the  American  Bible  Society 
almost  as  many,  while  the  American  Board,  the  American  Mis- 
sionary Association,  the  Congregational  Education  Society, 
and  the  American  Sunday  School  Union  turned  again  and 
again  to  Andover  men  for  such  service. 

Andover's  influence  in  the  Congregational  denomination  is 
apparent  in  the  records  of  its  organizations.  When  the  Na- 
tional Council  of  the  Congregationalists  was  organized,  the 
committees  on  polity  and  creed,  composed  of  six  men,  included 
five  Andover  alumni.  Alonzo  H.  Quint,  Andover  1852,  wrote 
the  Burial  Hill  Declaration  of  1865.  Eleven  alumni  were  on 
the  commission  of  twenty-five  which  drew  up  the  Creed  of 
1883.  Dr.  Quint  was  the  first  secretary  of  the  Council,  con- 
tinuing for  twelve  years.  Andover  men  were  the  prominent 
preachers  at  the  meetings  of  the  Council.  Among  them  were 
Storrs,  Bacon,  Mackenzie,  Fisher,  and  Tucker. 

There  are  times  when  the  pen  is  mightier  than  the  pulpit, 
and  Andover  editors  sometimes  have  wielded  a  trenchant  pen. 
There  have  been  more  than  seventy  of  them.  Henry  M. 
Dexter  moulded  the  thought  of  readers  of  the  Congregation- 


alist.  William  H.  Ward  was  one  of  the  great  editors  of  the 
country  from  the  time  he  became  editor-in-chief  of  the  Inde- 
pendent in  1870.  He  was  versatile  in  his  interests  and  abil- 
ities, a  poet,  an  Assyriologist  of  note,  a  worker  for  church 
unity,  and  active  in  numerous  societies  and  boards  with  the 
single  desire  to  be  useful.  R.  S.  Storrs  was  one  of  the  editors 
of  the  Independent.  Joseph  P.  Thompson,  Andover  1841,  was 
one  of  the  founders  of  the  New  Englander  and  of  the  Inde- 
pendent. Rufus  Anderson  and  Elnathan  E.  Strong  published 
many  volumes  of  the  Missionary  Herald.  Charles  Parkhurst 
found  his  desk  in  the  office  of  Zions  Herald  of  the  Methodists. 
Amory  H.  Bradford  could  take  time  from  his  church  at 
Montclair,  New  Jersey,  to  act  as  associate  editor  of  the  Out- 
look. The  founder  of  the  Boston  Recorder,  said  to  be  the  first 
religious  newspaper  of  the  world,  was  an  alumnus  of  Andover, 
for  Andover  antedated  even  that  event.  Albert  E.  Winship 
made  the  Journal  of  Education  a  power  in  the  field  of  secular 
education.  More  than  one  man  found  a  field  of  influence  in  a 
country  newspaper. 

Professors  Park  and  Edwards  called  a  conference  at  An- 
dover in  1850  and  planned  the  organization  of  the  Congrega- 
tional Library  Association.  The  ^Association  started  the 
Congregational  Quarterly,  with  Dexter,  Quint,  and  Joseph  S. 
Clark  as  editors.  Clark  had  been  secretary  of  the  Massa- 
chusetts Home  Mission  Society  and  author  of  ''A  Histor- 
ical Sketch  of  the  Congregational  Churches  of  Massachusetts 
from  1620  to  1858." 

The  name  of  Joseph  Cook,  Andover  1868,  was  a  household 
word  in  New  England  while  he  was  delivering  his  two  hun- 
dred and  fifty-two  Monday  noon  lectures  at  Tremont  Temple 
in  Boston. 

The  authors  of  books  among  Andover  alumni  are  legion. 
To  choose  among  them  would  be  invidious.  They  range 
through  all  the  fields  of  literature  and  learning.  They  seemed 
to  agree  heartily  that  of  the  making  of  books  there  is  no  end. 
If  you  would  find  their  monument,  go  into  the  Library  and 
look  around  you. 

At  the  very  outset  the  Seminary  had  the  advantage  of  a 

^142f 


library  in  the  Academy.  By  vote  of  the  Trustees  the  theological 
students  were  permitted  to  use  it  and  to  take  books  as  loans. 
It  was  realized  that  this  was  only  a  makeshift,  and  that  the 
Seminary  must  have  a  library  of  its  own,  and  gifts  came  in 
promptly  for  that  purpose.  Brown  and  Norris  each  gave  a 
thousand  dollars.  The  source  materials  for  theological  and 
biblical  study  were  in  Europe,  and  Professor  Stuart  eagerly 
purchased  there  as  his  acquaintance  with  Hebrew  and  Ger- 
man literature  grew.  Dr.  Spring  and  other  Hopkinsian  leaders 
were  apprehensive  of  foreign  literature,  preferring  to  make 
sure  that  the  books  were  safe  theologically  first  of  all.  There 
is  no  evidence  that  they  ever  went  so  far  as  to  suggest  an  index 
expurgatorius,  but  they  had  a  hearty  fear  of  heresy  and  criti- 
cism. Professor  Woods  did  not  share  that  fear  any  more 
than  Professor  Stuart,  and  was  willing  to  accept  books  from 
any  source.  He  spent  much  of  the  summer  before  the  open- 
ing of  the  Seminary  in  trying  to  get  together  a  respectable 
number  of  books  for  the  beginning  of  the  school,  and  he  hoped 
for  a  fund  or  a  gift  of  ten  thousand  dollars  for  that  purpose. 
For  nearly  sixty  years  the  Library  was  in  the  care  of  one 
of  the  Trustees  or  professors,  with  one  of  the  students  as 
acting  librarian.  The  salary  in  1810  was  fixed  at  one  hundred 
and  fifty  dollars.  A  large  proportion  of  the  books  were  exe- 
getical,  a  great  many  of  them  were  in  the  German  language. 
In  the  year  181 5  the  sum  of  sixteen  hundred  dollars  was  avail- 
able for  the  purchase  of  books,  and  the  authorities  went  so 
far  as  to  petition  Congress  for  exemption  from  the  payment 
of  duties  on  books  imported  for  Seminary  use.  Edward 
Everett,  who  was  professor  of  Greek  at  Harvard,  generously 
gave  his  services  abroad  to  the  selection  and  shipping  of  books 
for  the  Seminary.  Professor  Stuart  kept  a  list  of  prospective 
purchases  to  be  checked  off  as  funds  increased.  In  such  a  list 
biblical  titles  were  the  most  numerous,  and  early  in  its  history 
the  Library  became  the  possessor  of  a  variety  of  old  lexicons ; 
its  collection  of  Bibles  formed  a  nucleus  for  a  valuable  li- 
brary in  that  department.  As  early  as  18 19  there  were  seven- 
teen editions  of  the  Hebrew  Bible,  omitting  duplicates,  three 
English  editions,  three  Latin,  and  three  polyglot.    At  one 


time  or  another  the  Library  has  obtained  such  precious  vol- 
umes as  a  large  folio  of  Luther's  German  translation,  pub- 
lished in  Nuremberg  in  1736;  Genevan  Bibles,  one  a  black 
letter  edition  of  1578  and  another  an  edition  of  1607;  and  a 
black  letter  copy  of  the  Authorized  King  James  Version, 
dated  161 7.  Many  rare  old  volumes  are  in  the  Library  that 
have  come  from  French,  Dutch,  German,  and  Italian  presses, 
some  in  black  letter  with  illuminated  initials. 

A  specially  interesting  Hebrew  Bible  bears  the  autograph 
of  Increase  Mather.  It  was  issued  from  an  Antwerp  press 
in  1 61 3.  There  are  many  Greek  texts  of  the  New  Testament, 
including  a  copy  of  the  Complutensian  Polyglot  of  Ximenes, 
the  Spanish  scholar.  The  collection  includes  old  Bibles  which 
once  belonged  to  Mills  and  Newell,  and  letters  of  the  early 
missionaries.  Most  interesting  of  all  the  Bibles  are  two  copies 
of  the  Indian  Bible,  translated  so  laboriously  by  John  EHot, 
the  Indian  missionary,  and  now  unintelligible,  since  all  for 
whom  he  prepared  the  edition  have  vanished  to  happier  hunt- 
ing grounds.  The  copy  of  the  first  edition  came  into  the  pos- 
session of  the  Library  through  the  Society  of  Inquiry,  to  which 
it  was  given  by  James  Chater,  a  Baptist  missionary  at  Colombo, 
Ceylon,  in  April,  1818;  the  second  edition  was  a  present  to 
Dr.  Pearson  as  early  as  1800.  The  title  page  reads  : 

Mamusse 

Wunneetupanatamwe 

Up-Biblum  God 

Naneeswe 

Nukkone  Testament 

Kah  wonk 
Wusku  Testament 


Ne  quoshkinnumuk  nashpe  Wuttinneumoh  Christ 

noh  asoowesit 

John  Eliot 


Cambridge 
Printenoop  nashpe  Samuel  Green  kah  Marmaduke  Johnson 

1663 
4144^ 


On  the  back  are  the  verses  : 


By  what  means  may  a  young  man  best 
His  life  learn  to  amend? 

If  that  he  make  and  keep  God's  word, 
And  therein  his  time  spend. 

Psalm  cxix 


Ye  Indians  who  receive  the  word, 

Come  read  it,  one  and  all ! 
You'll  find  it  in  ye  Library 

In  Master  Gore  his  Hall. 
Wowaus 
alias  John  Printer 

The  book  bears  the  inscription:  "Printed  by  the  Commis- 
sioners of  the  United  Colonies  in  New  England  at  the  charge 
and  with  the  consent  of  the  Corporation  in  England  for  the 
Propagation  of  the  Gospel  amongst  the  Indians  in  New 
England." 

Among  other  treasures  are  early  New  England  prints,  in- 
cluding an  Old  Farmer's  Almanac  of  1808,  the  first  year  of 
the  Seminary ;  three  pamphlets  from  the  press  of  Benjamin 
Franklin  in  Philadelphia;  and  the  United  States  flag  made 
by  Mrs.  Stowe  and  flown  from  the  flagstaff  on  the  Hill  during 
the  Civil  War. 

After  the  erection  of  Bartlet  Chapel  the  Library  was  in- 
stalled on  the  second  floor  of  that  building,  which  gave  it  fair 
quarters  for  those  days.  Then  the  Faculty  requested  the  Trus- 
tees to  have  the  books  classified  and  catalogued,  and  the  Library 
opened  for  student  consultation  one  day  in  the  week.  Up 
to  that  time  the  doors  were  not  open  at  regular  hours,  and  a 
student  had  to  get  access  as  best  he  could.  It  was  suggested 
to  the  Trustees  that  in  other  institutions,  better  facilities  were 
enjoyed,  but  as  late  as  1830  the  Library  was  kept  open  only 
one  hour  a  day,  between  one  and  two  o'clock  in  the  afternoon, 
so  as  to  save  wear  and  tear.  The  professors  took  occasion 
to  express  a  protest  for  themselves  that  they  were  allowed 
only  twelve  books  at  one  time,  when  formerly  twice  that  num- 
ber had  been  allowed. 

4145f 


The  request  for  a  catalogue  of  the  books  proved  effective. 
The  first  catalogue  was  issued  in  1819.  The  work  was  done 
carefully,  and  included  details  of  the  contents  of  certain  vol- 
umes of  collections.  Students  waited  nineteen  years  for  a 
new  edition,  which  contained  certain  facts  about  the  authors 
as  well  as  their  names  and  the  titles  of  their  books.  Later  the 
Trustees  sanctioned  a  scientific  catalogue,  as  proposed  by 
Edward  Robinson  when  he  was  librarian.  The  Trustees  al- 
lowed him  a  dollar  and  a  quarter  a  day  for  the  time  employed 
at  that  particular  task.  A  number  of  gifts  came  to  the  Semi- 
nary because  of  Robinson,  and  his  expert  knowledge  made 
it  possible  for  him  to  buy  profitably  when  he  was  in  Europe. 
The  Porter  Rhetorical  Society  and  the  Society  of  Inquiry 
printed  catalogues  of  their  libraries  in  1830.  They  knew  by 
experience  the  value  of  a  catalogue  from  the  lack  of  a  suitable 
one  for  the  Seminary  Library.  One  can  imagine  the  look  of 
amazement  on  the  face  of  an  Andover  Rip  Van  Winkle  if  he 
should  walk  into  the  catalogue  room  of  Andover  Hall  in 
Cambridge  today,  or  the  reading  room  of  the  Hills  Library 
at  Newton  Centre. 

In  1820  every  student  was  required  to  pay  a  library  tax  of 
three  dollars  annually.  Since  there  were  one  hundred  stu- 
dents in  the  Seminary  at  that  time  the  income  was  consider- 
able. The  librarian  had  to  give  bonds,  and  it  would  not  have 
been  surprising  if  the  members  of  the  Faculty  had  been  re- 
quired to  do  the  same.  Dr.  Woods  was  criticised  for  per- 
mitting some  one  to  carry  books  out  of  town  without  consent 
of  the  librarian.  It  appears  that  men  who  were  blameless  in 
the  creed  now  and  then  lapsed  in  library  etiquette  or  were 
absent-minded.  The  Trustees  asked  the  professor  to  explain, 
and  he  did  so  in  a  written  communication. 

Student  faults  seem  to  have  existed  then  as  one  hundred 
years  later,  for  in  1833  three  books  were  taken  from  the 
Library  without  any  record ;  the  Trustees  expressed  surprise 
that  a  theological  student  should  have  been  guilty  of  such 
infraction  of  the  rules,  and  they  ordered  the  guilty  person 
to  return  the  books  at  once.  The  regular  fine  for  keeping 
books  overtime  was  6^  cents  for  half  a  week.   The  borrow- 

^  146  f 


ing  privilege  was  restricted  to  the  Faculty  and  students  of 
the  Seminary,  Trustees,  Visitors,  Founders,  and  teachers 
in  the  Academy.  The  thriftiness  of  the  authorities  is  evident  in 
the  rule  that  all  books  should  be  covered  with  paper,  and 
that  the  shabbiest  copy  should  be  loaned  first  when  there  were 
duplicates  of  a  book.  It  is  one  of  the  curious  rules  that  only 
four  students  could  be  in  the  Library  at  one  time,  and  that  they 
could  draw  books  only  on  Saturday  afternoon  from  two  to 
four  o'clock.  While  professors  enjoyed  the  privilege  of  twelve 
books  a  student  was  limited  to  three,  except  for  class  use ;  he 
might  keep  them  for  three  weeks. 

A  very  sensible  regulation  in  harmony  with  the  rules  of 
hygiene  that  were  taught  in  class  prescribed  a  thorough  airing 
of  the  room  once  a  week,  if  the  weather  permitted,  and  sweep- 
ing and  dusting  once  a  month.  Before  the  annual  inspection 
the  books  on  each  shelf  were  to  be  taken  down  and  carefully 
dusted  and  the  shelf  well  brushed.  The  maker  of  the  Library 
rules  must  have  had  a  wholesome  respect  for  the  ritual  of 
housecleaning.  Two  other  rules  couched  in  classical  diction 
were  that  "a  print  of  some  emblematical  engraving  shall  be 
pasted  in  the  beginning  of  every  volume  belonging  to  the  Li- 
brary," and  a  bookplate  was  adopted  as  early  as  1825.  In 
volumes  presented  to  the  Library  the  name  of  the  donor  was 
to  be  inserted :  "Whereas  certain  books  may  be  of  such  value 
and  nature  that  they  ought  not  to  be  taken  from  the  Library, 
but  always  kept  for  occasional  consultation,  such  as  Biblia 
Polyglotta,  etc.,  the  particular  books  of  this  description  shall 
be  determined  and  marked  by  the  librarian,  with  the  consent 
of  the  committee  of  the  Library." 

The  Seminary  was  the  recipient  from  time  to  time  of  gifts 
of  money,  books,  or  pamphlets  for  the  Library.  A  valuable 
collection  of  books  belonging  to  the  Phillips  family  was  pre- 
sented to  commemorate  Lieutenant-Governor  Phillips,  who 
died  in  1827.  William  Phillips  of  Boston  gave  $5,cx)0,  and 
William  Reed  of  Marblehead  gave  the  same  amount.  James 
Dunlop  of  Scotland  made  a  present  to  the  Library  of  sixty 
volumes  on  the  ecclesiastical  history  of  his  country.  Reverend 
John  Codman  of  the  Second  Church  in  Dorchester  marked 

^147f 


certain  books  in  his  library  with  the  letter  A  in  red  ink,  and 
bequeathed  them  to  the  Library.  The  bequest  amounted  to 
twelve  hundred  and  fifty  books. 

Dr.  Codman  was  a  gentleman  of  the  old  school.  In  ''Old 
Andover  Days,"  Professor  Stuart's  daughter  describes  a 
triumphal  progress  to  Commencement:  ''Up  the  Boston  turn- 
pike at  about  the  same  hour  came  John  Codman,  D.D.,  with 
his  stout  English  horses,  his  stout  English  coach,  his  stout 
English  coachman,  his  ruddy,  cordial  English  self,  and  his 
noble  little  wife.  He  was  one  of  the  cloth,  this  nature's  noble- 
man ;  yet  the  white  cravat  and  the  clerical  air  did  not  sit  quite 
naturally  on  his  round,  portly  form.  An  old  English  manor- 
house  .  .  .  would  seemingly  have  formed  his  natural  environ- 
ment ;  but  here  he  was  a  meek,  working,  country  minister,  rich 
in  every  good  word,  work,  and  deed,  richer  far  in  these  than 
in  the  gold  that  turned  the  glebe  lands  into  richest  pastures, 
and  the  simple  parsonage  into  a  tasteful,  old-world  home.  If 
he  had  been  absent,  the  Anniversary  would  have  lost  one  of 
its  brightest  ornaments,  and  Andover  one  of  its  warmest 
friends." 

Among  other  gifts  was  a  present  of  8,376  pamphlets  from 
Dr.  William  B.  Sprague  of  Albany,  author  of  "Annals  of  the 
American  Pulpit."  Eventually  the  collections  of  the  Porter 
Rhetorical  Society  and  the  Society  of  Inquiry  were  turned 
over  to  the  Seminary  Library,  but  not  until  the  Porter  Society 
had  sold  a  part  of  its  books  at  auction,  an  act  which  the  Faculty 
promptly  declared  illegal  and  countermanded  the  sale.  The 
largest  purchase  made  at  one  time  was  the  library  of  Dr. 
Christian  W.  Niedner,  successor  of  Professor  Neander  at  the 
University  of  Berlin.  This  comprised  forty-three  hundred 
volumes,  mostly  in  German  and  Latin,  including  rare  and 
curious  books,  many  of  them  of  great  value  in  the  history  of 
doctrine  and  philosophy  and  for  source  materials  in  history. 

An  edition  of  the  Fathers,  very  superior  in  paper  and  print 
and  issued  at  Basle,  has  a  remarkable  history.  It  was  a 
small  part  of  a  cartload  of  books  owned  by  a  citizen  of  Hart- 
ford, Connecticut.  At  his  death  the  books  were  found  piled 
in  a  garret,  and  were  appraised  at  three  dollars  and  bought 

-{148K 


by  a  bookseller  who  did  not  know  their  value.  One  day  a  New 
Haven  man  who  had  some  knowledge  of  the  value  of  old  books 
offered  twenty  dollars  for  the  collection  and  it  was  accepted. 
The  latest  owner  sold  a  considerable  part  of  them,  gave  many 
of  them  to  Yale  College,  kept  certain  of  them  for  himself,  and 
sold  the  remainder  for  two  hundred  dollars.  In  the  last  lot 
was  the  edition  of  the  Fathers,  which  dated  from  1523.  That 
single  set  was  priced  at  five  hundred  dollars,  when  it  came  into 
possession  of  Andover. 

In  1834  there  were  about  thirteen  thousand  volumes  in  the 
Andover  Library,  rich  in  "ancient  and  rabbinic  lore."  A  half 
century  later  they  had  become  forty  thousand,  with  eighteen 
thousand  pamphlets  and  a  small  collection  of  manuscripts.  A 
supplement  to  the  catalogue  was  printed  in  1849,  ^^^  ^^  1866 
Reverend  William  Ladd  Ropes,  who  had  been  appointed  on 
full  time,  commenced  an  accession  catalogue.  At  that  time 
the  collections  were  removed  to  Brechin  Hall,  which  had  been 
built  expressly  for  their  housing.  The  three  donors  of  Scotch 
ancestry,  besides  erecting  the  building,  provided  also  for  main- 
tenance, with  a  fund  of  twenty-five  thousand  dollars.  From 
that  time  the  Library  was  open  every  weekday  in  term  time. 
Brechin  Hall  provided  space  for  the  Museum,  which  con- 
tained three  collections.  One  was  the  Taylor  Palestine  Col- 
lection, which  owed  its  origin  in  the  main  to  Dr.  Selah  Merrill, 
from  whom  it  was  purchased.  A  particularly  interesting  curio 
was  a  model  of  Jerusalem,  which  had  been  obtained  by  Mrs. 
Harriet  Beecher  Stowe.  A  second  collection  was  the  Fiske 
Missionary  Collection.  For  this  the  Seminary  was  indebted 
to  the  thoughtful  interest  of  missionaries  and  alumni  who 
sent  to  America  those  objects  which  would  illustrate  the  cus- 
toms and  religions  of  the  Indian  peoples  in  Asia,  the  Chinese 
and  Japanese,  the  races  of  the  Near  East,  and  the  natives  of 
America.  The  third  collection  was  the  Newton  Cabinet, 
named  for  Dr.  E.  H.  Newton  of  the  class  of  1813,  who  pre- 
sented most  of  the  contents.  Mineralogical  specimens,  Indian 
relics,  shells,  and  coins  enriched  it. 

The  list  of  librarians  is  not  a  long  one,  and  for  a  long  time 
their  duties  were  not  arduous.  It  is  not  easy  to  imagine  Squire 

il49y 


Farrar  dusting  the  books,  but  he  could  have  the  oversight,  as 
he  did  for  the  first  twenty-two  years,  of  a  Hbrary  that  was 
closed  most  of  the  time,  and  could  delegate  his  authority  to  a 
student.  Edward  Robinson  was  in  charge  for  three  years  on 
his  return  from  overseas.  He  had  come  to  Andover  in  1821 
to  publish  his  edition  of  the  "Iliad,"  had  remained  as  an  in- 
structor in  sacred  literature  for  three  years,  and  then  had  gone 
abroad.  He  resumed  his  teaching  during  the  three  years,  and 
was  eminently  qualified  to  guide  in  the  use  of  books,  though 
he  had  not  in  those  days  the  technical  training  of  a  library 
school.  Rensselaer  David  Chancerford  Robbins  became  libra- 
rian in  1844  at  the  end  of  three  years  at  Andover  as  a  resident 
licentiate.  He  published  a  revised  edition  of  Stuart's  Com- 
mentaries. Edward  Robie,  well-known  for  his  long  pastor- 
ate at  Greenland,  New  Hampshire,  was  his  successor  for  three 
years,  and  then  the  mantle  fell  on  Samuel  H.  Taylor,  of  the 
class  of  1837.  He  was  principal  of  the  Academy  for  many 
years,  and  as  the  pupils  of  the  Academy  had  the  privilege  of 
using  the  Seminary  Library  his  oversight  was  easily  explained. 
He  was  the  editor  of  classical  textbooks,  and  one  of  the  men 
responsible  for  the  Bibliotheca  Sacra. 

It  is  with  William  Ladd  Ropes  that  the  modern  history  of 
the  Library  really  begins.  He  went  to  Andover  from  the 
pastorate,  but  he  was  a  graduate  of  both  Harvard  College  and 
Andover  Seminary,  and  he  knew  books.  It  was  he  who  had 
the  satisfaction  of  seeing  the  Library  housed  in  Brechin  Hall, 
and  proceeded  at  once  to  modernize  the  catalogue  with  author 
and  title  indexes  and  an  accession  book.  He  made  reports  to  the 
Trustees,  purchased  and  catalogued  new  books,  and  assisted 
the  students  in  their  search  for  bibliographical  material.  He 
put  in  nearly  forty  years  of  faithful  service  before  he  was  re- 
tired in  1905.  He  was  followed  by  Reverend  Owen  H.  Gates, 
who  had  been  teaching  in  the  Old  Testament  department  for 
three  years.  It  was  under  his  direction  that  the  removal  of  the 
Library  was  made  to  Cambridge,  and  the  thousands  of  books 
installed  in  the  ample  quarters  of  Andover  Hall.  There  he 
has  administered  the  joint  libraries  of  Andover  and  the  Har- 
vard Divinity  School.   And  through  the  Phillips  Fund,  which 

HlSOf 


made  possible  the  circulation  of  books  among  the  Congrega- 
tional ministers  free  of  charge,  service  was  rendered  outside 
the  walls  of  the  institution. 

The  arrangement  that  was  made  with  Harvard  for  the 
joining  of  the  two  libraries  provided  for  full  equality  in  the 
use  of  books.  And  the  Library  was  to  remain  in  the  full 
possession  of  the  Seminary  with  all  the  property  belonging 
to  it,  its  books  were  to  bear  the  Andover  bookplate  and  be  cata- 
logued distinctively,  but  in  the  same  card  catalogue.  When 
the  new  Andover  Hall  was  completed  the  two  libraries  would 
be  merged.  Shelf  room  was  planned  for  two  hundred  thou- 
sand volumes  in  a  fireproof  stack,  and  a  reading  room  large 
enough  for  fifty  readers.  The  two  institutions  shared  in  ex- 
penses. For  administrative  purposes  a  library  council  was 
to  be  organized,  with  two  professors  from  each  faculty  ap- 
pointed by  each  school  to  serve  as  an  administrative  com- 
mittee. The  agreement  was  open  to  revision  by  mutual  consent 
or  could  be  terminated  on  two  years'  notice  by  either  institu- 
tion. Since  the  affiliation  with  Newton  the  Andover  Library 
remains  in  Andover  Hall  in  Cambridge,  where  the  collections 
are  available  for  consultation  by  Andover  Newton  students 
and  are  of  special  value  for  purposes  of  research. 

It  is  a  far  cry  from  the  cramped  quarters  of  Phillips  Hall 
a  hundred  years  ago  to  the  luxurious  surroundings  of  a 
modern  building  equipped  with  all  the  devices  of  library  effi- 
ciency. Dust  still  gathers  on  old  tomes  that  are  seldom  opened, 
for  Hebrew  and  Syriac  are  not  so  popular  as  in  Stuart's  day. 
Strange  new  titles  in  social  ethics  and  economics,  in  rural  and 
city  church  methods,  and  in  missionary  literature,  are  called 
for  more  frequently.  Periodical  literature  in  abundance 
catches  the  eye  of  the  student  in  the  reading-room.  An  exten- 
sive card  catalogue  occupying  a  room  by  itself  invites  the 
curious  investigator.  Seminar  rooms  are  set  apart  for  special 
consultation,  other  special  rooms  for  particularly  valuable 
collections,  and  a  safety  vault  for  the  preservation  of  the 
archives.  The  librarian  is  no  longer  fearful  of  the  wear  and 
tear  of  books,  the  student  is  invited  to  read  or  browse.  If  he 
is  in  doubt,  assistance  will  be  given  him ;  if  he  is  engaged  in 


research,  he  may  have  all  the  facilities  that  the  Library  affords. 

Among  the  riches  of  the  Library  are  the  books  written  by 
the  professors.  Of  old,  printing  was  relatively  inexpensive 
as  compared  with  the  present  time,  and  the  members  of  the 
Faculty  were  glad  to  avail  themselves  of  the  local  press  to 
put  their  lecture  outlines  into  the  hands  of  the  students,  and 
to  write  more  pretentiously  for  the  general  public.  The  Works 
of  Dr.  Woods  were  collected  into  five  volumes,  the  first  three 
containing  his  theological  lectures,  the  fourth  letters  and 
essays,  and  the  fifth  sermons.  Besides  these  he  wrote  a  volu- 
minous account  of  the  founding  of  the  Seminary.  Professor 
Stuart's  writing  was  naturally  in  the  field  of  biblical  litera- 
ture. He  published  a  Hebrew  Grammar  and  another  for  the 
New  Testament  Greek,  and  he  wrote  commentaries  and  trans- 
lated works  that  he  considered  of  special  value.  Professor 
Porter  issued  books  relating  to  his  own  department,  includ- 
ing lectures  on  homiletics  and  elocution,  and  a  rhetorical 
reader.  His  ^'Analysis  of  the  Principles  of  Rhetorical  De- 
livery" passed  through  several  editions. 

No  books  from  Andover  pens  were  better  known  by  church 
people  than  Robinson's  "Physical  Geography  of  the  Holy 
Land,"  and  his  "Biblical  Researches  in  Palestine,  Mount 
Sinai,  and  Arabia  Petraea."  His  harmonies  of  the  gospels  in 
Greek  and  English,  his  "Greek-English  Lexicon  of  the  New 
Testament,"  and  his  translation  of  Gesenius,  were  consulted 
frequently  as  they  lay  on  ministers'  desks,  because  they  were 
useful  for  sermon  making  as  well  as  for  reference  in  studies 
and  classrooms  of  the  Seminary.  Murdock's  translation  of 
Mosheim's  "Ecclesiastical  History"  was  another  useful  piece 
of  work,  and  he  edited  Milman's  "History  of  Christianity." 

The  preparation  of  student  helps  was  one  of  the  frequent 
undertakings  of  the  Andover  professors.  B.  B.  Edwards 
issued  an  "Eclectic  Reader"  and  a  "Missionary  Gazetteer," 
and  he  wrote  "Classical  Essays"  and  a  "Biography  of  Self- 
Taught  Men."  Justin  Edwards  edited  a  family  Bible  and 
wrote  several  temperance  essays.  Contributions  were  made 
to  biblical  lore  by  Professors  Skinner,  Barrows,  and  Stowe. 
The  "Companion  to  the  Bible,"  written  by  Barrows,  went 


through  two  editions,  and  he  wrote  "Sacred  Geography  and 
Antiquities."  Skinner  was  the  author  of  "ReHgion  of  the 
Bible,"  and  Stowe  pubHshed  an  "Introduction  to  the  Criti- 
cism and  Interpretation  of  the  Bible,"  and  "Origin  and  His- 
tory of  the  Books  of  the  Bible."  If  the  story  of  Mrs.  Stowe 
rocking  the  cradle  while  she  wrote  "Uncle  Tom's  Cabin"  is 
true,  one  wonders  how  the  children  fared  while  she  was  re- 
porting "The  Minister's  Wooing,"  and  the  minister  was  in 
his  study  wooing  the  critical  muse.  Again  one  may  speculate 
as  to  what  she  might  have  accomplished  if  she  had  had  a 
garden  studio  as  Elizabeth  Stuart  Phelps  had  in  Andover 
and  later  on  Oak  Hill  in  Newton. 

Austin  Phelps  was  a  master  in  the  department  of  homiletics, 
and  his  "Theory  of  Preaching"  was  a  familiar  handbook  in 
the  studies  of  the  Congregational  ministers.  The  structure 
and  the  rhetoric  of  pulpit  discourses  were  moulded  by  his 
hand  for  a  generation  as  effectively  as  if  the  preachers  were 
under  his  instruction  in  the  classroom.  His  "Still  Hour"  be- 
came a  classic ;  his  hymn  book,  prepared  in  consultation  with 
others  and  published  in  1858,  was  adopted  widely  for  church 
worship;  one  hundred  and  twenty  thousand  were  sold  in 
eight  years.  Edwards  A.  Park  published  less  than  one  would 
suppose,  considering  the  widespread  acceptance  of  his  theo- 
logical leadership.  A  memoir  of  Nathaniel  Emmons  came 
from  his  pen,  and  essays  and  translations.  He  wrote  numer- 
ous articles  for  cyclopedias  and  reviews,  but  his  chief  con- 
tributions were  to  the  Bibliotheca  Sacra. 

Professor  Shedd's  "History  of  Christian  Doctrine"  became 
a  standard  work  in  that  field.  Since  theology  played  so  large 
a -part  in  the  Seminary  discipline  and  ministers  continued  to 
preach  sermons  on  doctrine,  the  history  of  Christian  opinion 
on  the  great  articles  of  the  Christian  faith  was  in  frequent  use. 
No  library  in  a  seminary  was  complete  without  a  set  of 
Shedd's  "History,"  and  few  ministers'  Hbraries  lacked  it,  if 
the  parson  was  at  all  studious.  Shedd  was  also  the  author  of 
a  three-volume  work  on  dogmatic  theology.  The  word  "dog- 
matic" is  symptomatic  of  the  attitude  towards  doctrine.  The 
professor  was  of  course  an  exponent  of  Congregational  or- 


thodoxy,  but  he  ventured  to  edit  Coleridge's  Works,  which 
reflected  the  German  theological  thinking  of  the  day.  Not 
content  with  these  contributions  he  wrote  a  commentary  on 
Romans,  published  a  volume  of  sermons,  and  wrote  a  text- 
book on  homiletics  and  pastoral  theology,  which  was  reissued 
in  several  editions. 

Professor  J.  H.  Thayer's  scholarly  works  of  reference  in 
the  biblical  field  gave  him  a  far-reaching  reputation.  The  later 
professors  wrote  fewer  books,  but  they  revealed  their  the- 
ology in  the  Andover  Review  and  in  the  little  volume  entitled 
''Progressive  Orthodoxy."  William  Jewett  Tucker's  Lyman 
Beecher  Lectures  at  Yale  were  among  the  specially  acceptable 
discussions  on  that  foundation,  and  his  reminiscences  of  his 
generation  brought  back  to  his  readers  the  Andover  of  his 
student  and  faculty  days.  George  Harris  described  '*A  Cen- 
tury's Changes  in  Religion"  after  he  had  left  Andover,  but  his 
book  too  was  a  reminder  of  the  changes  that  he  helped  to 
make  in  the  Seminary.  George  Foot  Moore's  widening  circle 
of  readers  came  after  his  transfer  to  Harvard,  and  his  vol- 
umes on  the  history  of  religion  gave  him  a  reputation  second 
to  none  in  that  field  of  investigation.  Harris  and  Tucker 
fathered  "Hymns  of  the  Faith,"  published  in  1887. 

Three  theological  reviews  are  associated  with  the  history 
of  Andover.  The  earliest  of  them  was  the  Biblical  Repository, 
originated  by  Edward  Robinson  in  183 1.  The  second,  with 
which  the  first  was  merged  after  a  separate  career  of  twenty 
years,  was  the  Bibliotheca  Sacra.  This  better  known  period- 
ical was  preceded  by  a  volume  of  essays,  edited  by  Robinson 
and  written  mostly  by  Stuart  and  himself,  which  was  given 
the  title  of  "Bibliotheca  Sacra,"  and  which  bore  the  date  of 
1843.  This  was  followed  the  next  year  by  the  first  number 
of  the  magazine  to  which  the  same  name  was  given.  Its  full 
title  was  the  Bibliotheca  Sacra  and  Theological  Review.  Pro- 
fessors B.  B.  Edwards  and  Park  edited  the  journal,  with 
Robinson  and  Stuart  cooperating.  Robinson  by  that  time  had 
gone  to  Union  Seminary.  The  Reviezv  was  published  at  An- 
dover for  forty  years,  with  Park  taking  the  burden  of  edi- 
torial responsibility.  With  the  prestige  of  his  name  Bibliotheca 

^154f 


Sacra  held  a  commanding  position  in  the  field  of  scholarly 
journalism.  It  stood  for  conservative  thought,  but  it  con- 
tained articles  that  kept  it  abreast  of  the  times  in  which  it 
was  published.  With  the  retirement  of  Park  from  the  active 
duties  of  his  chair  of  theology  and  the  onset  of  the  controversy 
over  more  liberal  tenets,  the  magazine  was  carried  to  Oberlin, 
where,  chiefly  under  the  guidance  of  George  Frederick 
Wright,  it  continued  to  defend  the  ancient  landmarks. 

When  the  Bibliotheca  Sacra  went  to  Oberlin  in  1884,  the 
Andover  Faculty  decided  to  put  another  review  in  the  field 
as  the  organ  of  the  newer  thought  which  was  under  discussion 
at  Andover.  The  first  number  bore  the  legend  :  ''The  Andover 
Review:  a  religious  and  theological  monthly."  This  was  a 
recognition  of  a  difference  between  religion  and  theology. 
Five  members  of  the  Faculty,  Smyth,  Tucker,  Churchill, 
Harris,  and  Hincks,  assumed  the  editorial  responsibility,  with 
the  others  assisting.  While  the  Faculty  members  were  not 
unanimous  in  their  attitude  towards  the  questions  that  were 
at  issue,  they  were  harmonious  among  themselves  and  were 
tolerant  of  minor  differences.  The  reason  given  for  issuing 
the  new  review  was  the  disturbed  state  of  theological  opinion 
on  certain  vital  questions.  It  stated  frankly  that  it  would 
"advocate  the  principles  and  represent  the  method  and  spirit 
of  Progressive  Orthodoxy."  From  the  beginning  it  was  able 
to  attract  to  its  columns  some  of  the  most  prominent  religious 
writers  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic.  Principal  Fairbairn, 
Lyman  Abbott,  George  A.  Gordon,  George  H.  Palmer, 
William  H.  Ward,  and  G.  Stanley  Hall,  were  among  them. 
Professor  Egbert  C.  Smyth  wrote  the  first  article,  and  frankly 
declared  that  the  Review  aimed  at  theological  development. 
The  editors  did  not  hesitate  to  accept  the  name  "New  The- 
ology" for  the  more  liberal  thought  that  was  gaining  ground 
in  the  Congregational  churches  in  harmony  with  a  freer  and 
more  scientific  age.  That  the  Review  would  stir  up  rather 
than  alleviate  controversial  discussion  did  not  disturb  its 
sponsors.  The  Andover  Review  performed  its  function  as  the 
exponent  of  the  liberal  movement  of  the  decade,  and  as  soon 
as  the  stress  of  the  conflict  was  over  it  was  discontinued. 

ussy 


The  Andover  Press  was  a  decided  asset  to  the  Theological 
Seminary,  though  it  had  little  organic  connection  with  it.  It 
was  a  small  local  enterprise  which  had  been  established  in 
1798,  when  Dr.  Pearson  enlarged  it,  and  after  Professor 
Stuart's  press  work  in  various  languages  began  to  issue  from 
the  Press  it  became  the  regular  and  well-known  medium  of 
publication  for  the  writings  of  the  Faculty.  It  was  intended 
to  be  an  educational  and  religious  force  as  well  as  a  legitimate 
line  of  business,  and  it  served  the  needs  of  both  Academy  and 
Seminary  and  grew  prosperous  along  with  their  growth.  As  a 
book  shop  it  supplied  the  boys  of  the  Academy  with  the  books 
that  they  needed  for  their  studies,  and  the  men  of  the  Semi- 
nary browsed  among  its  shelves.  Flagg  and  Gould,  the 
proprietors,  were  members  of  the  South  Church,  and  were 
sympathetic  with  Christian  education,  and  they  felt  that  they 
were  doing  a  Christian  service  in  printing  and  circulating  the 
books  that  flowed  from  the  pens  of  the  professors.  One  of 
the  earliest  publications  was  Professor  Stuart's  "Hebrew 
Grammar,"  for  which  the  professor  himself  set  some  of  the 
type.  The  facilities  for  printing  in  both  Greek  and  Hebrew 
were  greatest  at  Andover,  and  by  the  gifts  of  William  Bartlet, 
Dr.  John  Codman  of  Dorchester,  and  others  the  Press  was 
equipped  by  1829  with  fonts  for  twelve  Oriental  languages. 
This  wealth  of  equipment  gave  the  Andover  Press  a  distinc- 
tion which  it  did  not  lose  for  many  years.  In  those  days 
country  publishing  houses  were  by  no  means  so  rare  as  now, 
and  though  Andover  was  near  Boston  it  did  not  suffer  from 
city  competition  in  the  publishing  business. 

It  was  especially  convenient  for  the  Andover  professors  to 
stroll  downtown  to  the  Old  Hill  Store  where  the  printers 
worked  on  the  second  floor.  It  was  an  inspiration  to  see  their 
thoughts  put  on  the  printed  page  when  they  had  no  type- 
writer to  manipulate,  and  they  were  at  hand  to  correct  proof 
that  reflected  the  uncertainties  of  poor  handwriting.  In  the 
course  of  the  years  the  Faculty  of  the  Seminary  wrote  over 
one  hundred  volumes  which,  it  is  estimated,  had  a  sale  of  four 
hundred  thousand  copies.  There  was  a  market  for  them  wher- 
ever religious  books  were  read,  and  the  reputation  of  the 

^156K 


school  made  them  popular  as  textbooks.  Such  a  book  as 
Phelps'  "Still  Hour"  was  read  very  widely.  Booksellers  in 
all  the  cities  furnished  a  medium  for  public  distribution. 

In  1832  the  Press  found  new  quarters  in  a  two  story  and  a 
half  brick  building  on  the  Hill,  where  Warren  F.  Draper,  the 
proprietor  after  1854,  put  out  his  sign  over  the  door  reading 
''Warren  F.  Draper,  Publisher  and  Bookseller,"  with  a  long 
signboard  over  the  windows  upstairs  which  read  "Printing 
House."  There  the  business  remained  for  more  than  thirty 
years,  when  it  was  moved  to  the  Draper  Block  on  Main  Street. 
The  Seminary  was  fortunate  to  have  such  a  man  as  Draper 
to  carry  on  the  business,  for  like  Flagg  and  Gould  he  was  in- 
terested in  the  business  of  publishing  religious  books,  and  he 
was  generous  with  the  money  which  the  business  brought 
him.  There  the  American  Tract  Society  issued  its  first  tracts, 
and  there  was  issued  the  Journal  of  Humanity,  the  first  tem- 
perance newspaper  in  the  United  States.  The  Biblical  Reposi- 
tory and  the  Bibliotheca  Sacra  were  printed  by  the  Press  as 
long  as  they  were  edited  by  the  professors  of  the  Seminary. 
"Of  the  forces  that  made  Andover  in  the  last  century  a  world- 
renowned  center  of  religious  and  spiritual  life,"  says  Scott 
H.  Paradise  in  his  historical  sketch  of  the  publishing  house, 
"the  Andover  Press  was  no  small  part.  Working  in  close 
cooperation  with  the  theological  professors,  whom  they  re- 
sembled in  their  religious  enthusiasm,  the  Andover  printers 
did  their  share  to  spread  Christianity  to  the  far  corners  of  the 
earth,  and  to  inspire  those  who  were  working  at  home  and  in 
the  mission  field  with  fresh  vigor." 

/  Among  the  most  interesting  and  popular  books  on  the  cata-^- 
logue  of  the  Press  were  the  writings  of  several  talented  mem- 
bers of  the  families  of  the  professors.  Mrs.  Stowe  and  the  wife 
and  the  daughter  of  Professor  Phelps,  and  three  daughters 
of  the  Stuart  and  Woods  families,  found  their  publishers  near 
at  home.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  copies  of  their  books 
circulated  abroad  as  well  as  in  America.  The  pubhc  knows  of 
Harriet  Beecher  Stowe  and  Elizabeth  Stuart  Phelps,  but  it  is 
not  commonly  known  that  Mrs.  Phelps  was  the  author  of 
"Sunnyside,"  a  juvenile  book,  which  had  a  sale  of  one  hun- 


dred  thousand  copies  at  home  and  was  translated  abroad. 
''Old  Andover  Days"  by  Elizabeth  Stuart  Robbins  is  unas- 
suming but  charming  in  its  descriptions  and  reminiscences. 

The  literary  atmosphere  at  Andover  inspired  even  the  stu- 
dents to  cultivate  the  muses.  It  was  in  Bartlet  Hall  that  Elijah 
Kellogg  wrote  his  well-known  "  Spartacus  to  the  Gladiators," 
and  Samuel  Francis  Smith  wrote  ''America"  while  an  An- 
dover student.  "Long  after  the  name  of  Bartlet  Hall,"  says 
a  newspaper  writer,  "and  even  the  more  famous  name  of 
Andover  Seminary  are  forgotten,  these  two  masterpieces  of 
oratorical  writing  will  preserve  in  the  Valhalla  of  literature 
a  sacred  place  for  the  shades  of  Samuel  F.  Smith  and  Elijah 
Kellogg." 


ussy 


CHAPTER   VIII 

THE  NEW  THEOLOGY 

IF  a  student  who  graduated  from  Andover  in  1850  had 
returned  for  a  class  reunion  on  the  thirtieth  anniversary, 
he  would  have  found  the  same  system  of  theology  taught 
at  Andover  by  Professor  Park.  Science  and  criticism  were 
attacking  the  foundations  of  authority.  Rapidly  changing 
social  conditions  were  demanding  a  translation  of  religion  into 
social  terms.  Theology  itself  was  being  reinterpreted  with  a 
human  rather  than  a  divine  emphasis.  None  of  them  mattered 
at  Andover.  The  New  England  theology  was  constructed  on 
the  principle  that  there  are  certain  truths  which  abide  in  the 
very  nature  of  things  and  condition  any  system  of  doctrine. 
Since  these  truths  do  not  change,  an  orthodox  system  of  doc- 
trine must  not  change.  The  fathers  of  New  England  lived 
under  the  stern  conviction  that  life  is  a  battlefield  between 
divine  right  and  justice  on  the  one  hand  and  human  weakness 
and  sin  on  the  other.  The  transcendent  purity  and  dignity  of 
God  is  offended  daily  by  the  sin  of  man.  Benevolent  though 
he  is,  he  cannot  overlook  human  fault.  Powerful  as  he  is  he 
cannot  forgive  without  satisfaction  to  his  moral  nature  and 
his  justice.  The  death  of  Christ  was  the  most  stupendous 
fact  in  history  because  it  made  possible  the  forgiveness  of 
sin  and  the  reconciliation  of  God  to  man.  Original  sin,  atone- 
ment, reconciliation — this  was  the  way  from  darkness  to 
light,  from  the  power  of  Satan  to  fellowship  with  God.  Built 
thus  on  the  twin  facts  of  sin  and  salvation,  the  New  England 
theology  was  the  summation  of  the  answer  to  the  problem  of 
human  destiny,  an  answer  which  was  in  the  making  from 
Augustine  to  Calvin  and  from  Calvin  to  Park. 

The  man  who  embodied  this  system  of  theology  at  Andover 
was  Edwards  A.  Park.  A  graduate  of  Brown  University  and 


of  Andover  Theological  Seminary,  with  experience  as  a 
teacher  and  as  an  associate  pastor  with  Richard  S.  Storrs, 
Park  came  to  Andover  to  teach  sacred  rhetoric  in  1836.  When 
Woods  completed  his  long  term  at  the  Seminary  as  professor 
of  theology,  it  was  appropriate  that  his  understudy  should 
succeed  him. 

Park  was  the  ''last  of  the  old  guard"  of  the  New  England 
theology.  He  was  essentially  an  apologist,  an  advocate  for 
a  great  cause.  Biblical  criticism,  German  rational  philosophy, 
and  the  hypotheses  of  science  passed  him  by.  He  challenged 
them,  but  they  were  not  his  chief  concern.  He  would  main- 
tain undimmed  the  glory  of  the  ancient  faith,  unbroken  the 
solid  wall  of  his  well-wrought  system.  The  halo  that  had 
gathered  around  the  tenets  of  Hopkinsianism  must  not  be  dis- 
sipated. To  bring  truth  into  the  white  light  of  unrestrained 
reason  and  speculation  was  to  tear  away  the  veil  of  mystery 
that  shrouded  it.  Or,  to  change  the  figure,  he  felt  that  the 
foundations  of  God  stand  sure,  but  it  is  not  well  to  play  with 
dynamite.  Such  figures  of  speech  were  not  articulate  with 
him,  but  they  accord  with  his  principles.  While  others  were 
modifying  their  opinions  Park  held  the  fort  at  Andover,  and 
taught  his  generation  of  students  to  wage  war  valiantly  for 
the  faith  once  delivered  to  the  saints. 

His  classroom  did  not  provide  a  genial  atmosphere  for  the 
growth  of  revolutionary  ideas.  It  was  a  place  for  the  recep- 
tion of  truth,  not  a  laboratory  for  experimentation.  As  pa- 
tiently as  a  sculptor  Park  had  perfected  the  system  that  he 
endorsed.  His  classroom  method  was  to  dictate  the  substance 
of  his  well-ordered  lectures,  and  then  to  illustrate  and  expand 
extemporaneously.  He  was  exact  in  definition,  clear  in  analy- 
sis, logical  in  argument.  He  stressed  the  importance  of 
coherence  in  a  doctrinal  system.  "Beginning  with  strictly 
self-evident  truths,"  says  Joseph  Cook,  an  appreciative  and 
loyal  pupil  of  Park,  **the  architecture  of  his  system  rises 
through  anthropology,  theism,  soteriology  and  eschatology, 
along  such  a  strenuous  curve  that  it  is  not  possible  to  appre- 
ciate it  except  from  some  point  of  view  where  the  student 
sees  it  as  a  whole  and  endeavors  to  transmute  it  into  life." 


It  was  not  a  system  of  philosophy,  but  it  was  philosophical. 
It  was  not  a  system  of  ethics,  but  it  was  ethical.  It  was  the- 
ology, not  religion,  yet  it  was  centered  in  the  gospel  of  the  Son 
of  God.   God  Himself  was  revealed  through  Jesus  Christ. 

It  was  this  system  that  he  set  forth,  now  with  cogent  argu- 
ment, again  with  the  glowing  language  of  a  conviction  that 
gripped  his  own  soul.  With  masterly  logic  he  bore  down 
hostile  arguments,  and  there  were  not  a  few  of  these  as  the 
forces  that  were  moulding  modern  thought  began  to  affect 
the  minds  of  the  students.  Park  had  insight  into  the  student 
mind,  and  he  was  able  to  impress  upon  that  mind  the  profound 
importance  of  the  subject  in  hand  and  to  arouse  the  deep 
interest  of  his  pupils.  He  opened  up  the  vast  area  to  be  ex- 
plored ;  pointed  out  the  places  where  the  rich  ore  of  truth 
was  to  be  found  and  the  more  barren  fields  of  thought ;  and 
made  the  men  feel  that  they  could  not  be  engaged  in  any  enter- 
prise so  vital  to  them  as  the  search  for  truth  and  wisdom. 
He  made  them  see  that  they  must  think  hard,  as  his  own  mind 
unfolded  before  them.  He  brought  both  eloquence  and  wit 
to  his  assistance.  At  times  his  mind  scintillated  like  a  brilliant 
display  of  fireworks. 

Impressed  by  his  analysis,  the  clarity  of  his  thought,  and 
the  wealth  of  proof  and  illustration,  Andover  students  ac- 
cepted his  teaching  and  made  it  the  substance  of  their  thought 
and  preaching.  ^len  came  for  the  middle  year  in  theology, 
convinced  that  there  was  no  teacher  of  the  subject  greater 
than  he  was.  It  has  been  charged  that,  though  he  was  a  mas- 
terly teacher,  he  did  not  edify,  and  "no  set  of  men  need  edify- 
ing more  than  theological  students."  But  such  a  charge  means 
merely  that  a  logical  presentation  of  a  doctrinal  system  is 
not  religion.  It  is  the  coat  of  armor  that  religion  wears  for 
defence  but  the  heart  that  beats  within  is  religion. 

Professor  Park  had  taught  the  art  of  preaching  before 
Phelps  came,  and  he  was  himself  no  less  outstanding  as  a 
preacher  than  as  a  teacher  of  theology.  He  crowded  the  meet- 
inghouses where  he  went  to  preach,  as  Phillips  Brooks  com- 
manded great  audiences  in  his  day.  The  same  personality 
that  dominated  his  classroom  was  evident  in  the  pulpit.    He 

i  161  y 


towered  above  his  congregation  like  a  prophet.  He  spoke  as 
one  who  had  authority,  and  men  listened,  ''so  still  that  the 
buzzing  of  a  fly  would  have  boomed  like  a  cannon."  "When 
it  was  all  over,  and  that  wonderful  man  sat  down,"  said  one 
who  heard  him,  "the  people  stared  at  each  other,  and  looked 
as  wan  and  wild  as  if  they  had  seen  a  spirit,  and  wondered 
they  had  not  died." 

Dr.  George  A.  Gordon  bore  witness  that  he  was  a  preacher 
unequaled  in  his  order,  one  whose  great  sermons  became  tra- 
ditions of  power  in  all  the  denominations,  and  among  people 
of  all  types  of  belief.  Gordon  called  his  sermon,  on  the  The- 
ology of  Intellect  and  the  Theology  of  Feeling,  preached  in 
1850  at  the  Massachusetts  Convention  of  Congregational 
ministers,  which  included  the  Unitarians,  the  greatest  ser- 
mon ever  preached  in  Boston.  And  he  said  that  if  Park  "had 
allowed  his  thought  in  that  great  discourse  to  control  and 
shape  his  entire  teaching,  instead  of  being  the  last  of  the 
old  order  of  theologians,  he  would  have  become  the  first 
of  the  new."  And  it  is  Gordon  again  who  said  truly:  "If  he 
had  utilized  his  insight  that  the  content  of  genuine  Christian 
feeling  is  an  eternal  content,  while  the  theories  of  the  intellect 
chase  each  other,  in  their  discovered  inadequacy  as  philosophy, 
like  shadows  over  the  summer  grass ;  if  he  had  turned  the 
intellect  upon  the  deposit  of  Christian  faith  laid  up  in  the 
Christian  heart,  stored  in  the  Christian  consciousness,  treas- 
ured in  the  soul  of  Christ;  if  he  had  allowed  the  enlightened 
conscience  to  cleanse  the  Augean  stable  of  the  mediaeval  un- 
derstanding, Edwards  A.  Park  would  have  stood  for  the  dawn 
of  a  new  day  in  American  theology." 

It  is  difficult  for  a  man  to  be  at  the  same  time  a  priest  and 
a  prophet.  Park  mediated  the  divine  to  his  pupils  as  a  priest 
mediates  between  God  and  man  through  his  consecration  of 
the  sacraments.  He  was  an  interpreter  of  the  past,  not  a 
prophet  of  the  future.  In  the  changing  panorama  of  the  years 
there  were  some  who  felt  that  it  would  be  better  if  he  faced 
the  sunrise  of  a  new  day  in  Christian  thought,  a  herald  of  a 
new  theology,  than  that  he  should  look  regretfully  to  the 
fading  colors  of  a  day  that  was  dying.    He  realized  that  the 


world  of  thought  was  moving  away  from  him,  but  he  could 
not  accompany  it.  Whatever  may  have  been  his  vision,  he 
continued  to  represent  the  conservative  position  in  theological 
thought,  with  the  Hopkinsian  Creed  as  its  foundation  and 
his  particular  system  as  the  superstructure.  There  was  danger 
that  the  New  England  theology  might  perish  from  too  much 
scholasticism. 

The  theology  which  Park  hammered  out  on  the  anvil  was 
prepared  for  homiletical  use  by  Austin  Phelps.  Coming  from 
a  Boston  pastorate  to  Andover  in  1848  to  succeed  Park  when 
he  was  transferred  to  the  Abbot  chair  of  theology,  Phelps 
remained  at  Andover  thirty-one  years,  instructing  students 
how  to  preach,  and  through  his  publications  indoctrinating 
a  whole  generation  of  preachers  in  their  art.  His  '* Theory  of 
Preaching"  became  a  classic  in  homiletics.  His  "English 
Style  in  Public  Discourse"  was  an  education  in  itself  in  the 
use  of  the  mother  tongue.  Possessed  of  a  purity  of  style  and 
with  a  freshness  of  thought  that  intrigued  the  student  mind, 
he  was  able  by  example  as  well  as  precept  to  show  a  man 
how  to  preach,  and  how  to  preach  well  enough  so  that  his 
parishioners  would  not  tire  of  him.  He  brought  in  the  vogue 
of  the  carefully  prepared  written  sermon,  wrought  out  ac- 
cording to  the  rules  of  rhetoric  and  with  an  elegance  of  dic- 
tion that  gave  it  distinction  and  bearing  the  marks  of  the 
minister's  own  experience.  His  own  character  was  refined 
in  the  furnace  of  domestic  affliction,  and  his  preaching  was 
mellowed  by  his  experiences.  His  own  physical  infirmities 
of  increasing  age  and  threatening  blindness  saddened  still 
more  his  later  years,  and  he  died  at  his  summer  home  in  Bar 
Harbor  in  1890.  Fortunate  was  it  for  his  peace  of  mind  that 
he  retired  from  active  service  before  the  storm  of  theological 
controversy  broke  over  the  Seminary. 

In  1879  when  Phelps  retired  Park  had  been  teaching  forty- 
three  years  at  Andover.  He  had  reason  to  feel  himself  a  bul- 
wark of  the  faith  for  which  Andover  had  stood.  A  junior  in 
the  Seminary  when  he  was  thirty  years  old,  a  professor  in 
the  school  in  two  departments  for  forty-five  years,  acquainted 
with  a  large  majority  of  its  Trustees  and  Visitors  from  the 


earliest  years  and  all  but  two  of  its  professors  for  the  seventy 
years  of  Andover  history,  and  related  personally  to  fifty  of 
its  classes,  he  was  entitled  to  be  regarded  as  a  spokesman  for 
Andover.  Recognizing  his  high  position  and  his  personal 
ability,  the  Trustees  expressed  a  wish  that  he  would  publish 
his  system  of  theology.  They  would  relieve  him  of  active 
teaching,  give  him  twenty-five  hundred  dollars  a  year  and  his 
residence  as  long  as  he  lived,  if  he  felt  that  he  could  not  teach 
and  write,  too.  It  was  with  this  arrangement  that  he  closed 
his  long  term  of  teaching  in  1881. 

The  Trustees  realized  that  it  would  be  no  easy  task  to  fill 
his  place.  With  the  master  gone  differences  of  theological 
opinion  would  strive  for  the  mastery,  but  the  Trustees  knew 
that  recognition  must  be  given  to  the  modern  trends.  There 
was  difference  of  opinion  in  Congregational  circles  as  to  the 
content  of  true  orthodoxy.  On  the  one  side  of  the  question 
was  the  ironclad  Creed  of  the  Seminary  and  the  New  Eng- 
land theology  of  Andover  tradition,  which  had  been  absorbed 
by  the  students  for  seventy-five  years.  And  the  last  of  the 
old  guard  was  vigorous,  though  in  retirement,  and  he  never 
surrendered.  On  the  other  hand  it  was  becoming  plain  that 
the  theological  thought  of  the  past  was  being  affected  by 
science  and  philosophy.  Hostility  to  the  Unitarian  movement 
had  delayed  any  other  liberal  trend  inside  orthodox  circles, 
but  Horace  Bushnell's  novel  ideas  on  certain  doctrines  were 
fermenting  in  the  body  ecclesiastical.  There  were  lively  dis- 
cussions of  Bushnell's  thesis  that  a  child  is  not  an  imp  of 
Satan  and  his  nature  twisted  by  an  imputation  of  Adam's  sin, 
but  that  he  should  grow  up  to  think  of  himself  as  a  child  of 
God.  And  Bushnell  had  a  fresh  interpretation  of  the  atone- 
ment. Almost  contemporary  with  Bushnell's  modernism  was 
Darwin's  ''Origin  of  Species."  It  had  no  such  immediate 
effect  as  Bushnell's  doctrinal  discussions,  but  the  tough  sod 
of  Calvinism  already  had  been  undermined  by  philosophical 
and  critical  scholars  in  Germany  and  by  scientists  in  Great 
Britain,  and  seeds  of  revolutionary  ideas  planted  in  the  dis- 
turbed soil  could  find  lodgment  and  grow.  By  1880  they  were 
sprouting  vigorously. 

H164}> 


Differences  of  opinion  could  easily  develop  into  controversy 
over  the  choice  of  a  new  professor.  It  seemed  as  if  Andover 
had  been  dogged  by  the  spirit  of  controversy  from  the  be- 
ginning. The  circumstances  of  the  founding  of  the  Seminary 
stirred  up  controversy.  It  could  hardly  be  expected  that  the 
Unitarians  would  be  friendly,  for  it  was  well  understood  that 
the  existence  of  Andover  was  due  to  the  hostility  of  the  or- 
thodox Congregationalists  to  the  liberal  movement.  The  An- 
thologist referred  scornfully  to  the  bigotry  of  the  school,  and 
after  a  few  years  Harvard  and  Andover  professors  began 
to  pummel  each  other  with  wordy  blows.  Channing's  Balti- 
more sermon  of  1819  stirred  the  Seminary.  Stuart  contested 
forcefully  the  Unitarian  denial  of  the  Trinity  and  interpre- 
tation of  the  person  of  Christ,  arguing  for  his  deity  on 
biblical  grounds.  He  wrote  in  the  form  of  "Letters,"  which 
were  published  at  Andover  in  the  year  of  the  Baltimore  dis- 
course. Unable  to  continue  with  a  discussion  of  other  doc- 
trines, Stuart  urged  Woods  to  dispute  Channing's  other 
positions.  Woods  had  a  more  irenic  disposition  and  was  less 
inclined  to  engage  in  controversy,  but  he  felt  that  the  attack 
upon  the  orthodox  position  should  be  answered ;  he  therefore 
entered  the  lists  with  his  own  ''Letters  to  Unitarians,"  treat- 
ing such  subjects  as  the  nature  of  man  and  the  sovereignty 
of  God.  Professor  Ware  of  Harvard  replied  promptly  with 
"Letters  to  Trinitarians  and  Calvinists."  Then  came  the 
''Answer,"  "Remarks,"  and  "Postscript."  It  was  a  period  of 
polemics  and  of  minute  differences  of  theological  opinion 
vigorously  debated.  As  professor  of  theology  in  a  prominent 
seminary  Woods  could  not  escape  contentions,  however  peace- 
fully inclined. 

A  second  controversy  into  which  he  was  drawn  was  with 
the  Yale  professor  of  theology,  Nathaniel  W.  Taylor.  Taylor 
represented  a  position  farther  removed  from  Edwards  than 
was  the  case  with  the  Hopkinsians.  It  was  by  no  means  liberal 
from  the  Unitarian  standpoint,  but  it  was  not  conservative 
enough  for  the  Hopkinsians.  Woods  therefore  entered  the 
lists  in  defence  of  the  older  point  of  view.  The  principal 
point  of  attack  was  Taylor's  doctrine  that  in  a  moral  system 


like  that  under  which  man  lived  with  a  reasonable  freedom 
of  choice  on  man's  part  God  could  not  prevent  all  sin.  In  his 
''Letters  to  Taylor"  Woods  condemned  the  principles  of  the 
system  taught  at  Yale  and  drew  unjustifiable  inferences  which 
Taylor  promptly  denied.  The  extended  controversy  between 
the  Hopkinsians  and  the  Taylorites,  in  which  Woods  had 
only  a  small  part,  brought  little  good,  and  it  resulted  in  the 
withdrawal  of  the  Hopkinsians  from  any  relation  with  Yale 
Divinity  School,  and  the  establishment  of  another  Congrega- 
tional seminary,  which  presently  found  its  permanent  home 
at  Hartford.  Woods  had  still  another  tilt  over  the  doctrine 
of  perfectionism  held  by  Asa  Mahan,  a  former  pupil  at  An- 
dover  and  in  the  period  of  controversy  president  of  Oberlin. 

The  New  Haven  theology  affected  the  Seminary,  for  Woods 
and  Stuart  were  not  agreed  about  it.  ''Professor  Stuart," 
says  the  narrator,  "would  flash  out  one  set  of  views  on  the 
lower  story ;  Dr.  Woods  would  reply  with  rumbling  thunders 
in  his  lecture  room  in  the  second  story ;  and  good  Professor 
Emerson  would  draw  off  both  lightning  and  thunder  in  the 
third  story,  and  tell  the  seniors  that  there  was  no  real  cause 
for  alarm — the  brethren  evidently  did  not  quite  understand 
each  other." 

Dr.  Stuart  after  retiring  from  the  field  of  Unitarian  con- 
troversy ventured  into  the  arena  of  discussion  with  the  Uni- 
versalists,  writing  as  a  biblical  exegete  in  1830.  Woods  no 
sooner  demolished  the  ramparts  of  the  Perfectionists  than 
he  criticised  the  Episcopalians,  and  he  retired  from  his  pro- 
fessorship with  a  parting  shot  at  the  Swedenborgians.  This 
atmosphere  of  criticism  and  hostility  did  not  augur  peace  for 
Woods'  successor. 

The  strong  emphasis  upon  the  Creed  made  it  inevitable  that 
the  question  of  subscription  to  it  should  arise,  and  of  further 
subscription  to  the  Westminster  Catechism.  Within  five  years 
of  the  organization  of  the  Seminary  it  became  necessary  to 
apply  to  the  Legislature  for  power  to  hold  additional  funds. 
In  granting  this  request  the  Legislature  added  the  proviso 
that  no  student  should  be  deprived  of  any  privileges  in  the 
Seminary  or  subjected  to  forfeiture  of  any  scholarship  aid 


O     S     O 
S    S    K 

S  :^  ^ 


JO    *< 
o 


"on  the  ground  that  his  interpretations  of  the  Scriptures  differ 
from  those  which  are  contained  in  the  articles  of  faith  adopted 
by  said  institution."  To  compel  students  to  agree  with  the 
Creed  was  considered  an  invasion  of  religious  liberty  and  the 
right  of  free  inquiry. 

There  was  no  question  about  the  Faculty.  In  1826  the 
Trustees  had  voted  that  both  the  Creed  and  Catechism 
must  be  accepted  by  all  the  professors,  but  sixteen  years 
later  that  vote  was  rescinded  so  far  as  concerned  the  pro- 
fessors on  the  Associate  Foundation,  so  that  these  professors 
should  only  be  required  to  subscribe  and  repeat  the  Creed. 
The  Visitors  gave  their  approval,  but  the  slighting  of  the 
Westminster  Catechism  and  the  denial  of  the  Old  Calvinist 
doctrine  of  the  imputation  of  sin  in  the  theology  of  Woods 
aroused  the  antagonism  of  Dr.  Daniel  Dana,  who  originally 
had  stood  out  alone  in  the  Board  of  Trustees  against  the 
compromise  with  the  Hopkinsians.  Militant  for  the  Old 
Calvinists,  Dana  stirred  up  the  "Andover  Fuss"  in  1849  by 
addressing  a  remonstrance  to  the  Board  on  the  state  of  the 
Seminary  under  its  care.  Though  he  had  been  a  Trustee  for 
forty  years,  earlier  remonstrances  had  not  been  heeded.  Can- 
didates for  ordination  were  not  measuring  up  to  the  standards 
in  the  matter  of  total  depravity.. -Worst  of  all,  the  new  pro- 
fessor of  theology,  Edwards  A.  Park,  was  not  sound  in  the 
faith.  His  inaugural  left  much  to  be  desired,  and  now  it  was 
clear  that  there  was  error  in  Zion. .  The  professors  were 
deviating  from  the  Catechism.  The  release  from  subscription 
to  that  document  was  "d.  wound  in  the  vitals  of  the  Consti- 
tution." "Would  it  not  be  lamentable  if  a  seminary,  reared 
at  an  immense  expense,  for  the  express  purpose  of  defending 
and  diffusing  pure  gospel  truth,  should  become  the  instru- 
ment of  corrupting  that  truth,  and  of  spreading  destructive 
error  through  the  churches  and  the  community?  "  Four  years 
later  Dana  returned  to  the  charge  against  Park.  In  a  con- 
vention sermon  and  in  argument  with  Professor  Hodge  of 
Princeton,  Park  had  defended  his  own  Hopkinsian  position 
on  sin  and  human  ability,  and  had  even  attacked  important 
articles  of  the   Catechism.    The  Andover   professor  main- 


tained  that  all  sin  consists  in  action.  "That  position,"  said 
Dana,  "would  sweep  away  almost  every  doctrine  of  the  Bible," 
and  ''nullifies  the  cardinal  and  fundamental  doctrine  of  nat- 
ural depravity."  An  anonymous  writer,  discussing  the  case, 
concluded  that  Dr.  Dana  was  losing  his  memory. 

It  might  be  anticipated  that  the  situation  in  1881  would 
precipitate  more  trouble.  The  defenders  of  the  old  theology 
were  aggressive  because  they  felt  that  important  truths  would 
be  lost  to  the  Congregational  churches  of  New  England  with 
the  passing  of  the  old  traditions.  The  Faculty  suggested  to 
the  Trustees  the  name  of  Newman  Smyth  for  the  vacant 
chair  of  theology,  and  the  Trusiees  voted  in  his  favor  twice. 
The  Visitors  approved  his  election  from  the  point  of  view 
of  fidelity  to  the  Creed,  but  by  a  vote  of  two  to  one  they 
refused  to  give  the  necessary  sanction  to  his  election  on  the 
ground  that  Smyth  lacked  the  mental  characteristics  that  were 
needed  for  clear,  lucid  teaching.  It  was  an  unhappy  choice  of 
ground  for  the  opposition,  for  Smyth  possessed  conspicu- 
ously the  quality  of  clear  explication  of  his  opinions.  The 
real  reason  for  the  opposition  of  two  of  the  Visitors  seemed 
to  be  that  they  did  not  agree  with  the  theological  opinions 
that  he  had  recently  expressed  in  print.  Newman  Smyth  had 
criticised  the  New  England  theology^  as  essentially  rationalistic 
and  mechanical,  and  preferred  a  philosophy  which  should 
find  room  for  "the  relation  of  the  whole  man  through  the  per- 
son of  Christ  to  the  whole  God."  Theology  should  be  christo- 
centric,  and  its  spirit  less  static.  Experience  rather  than 
reason,  a  theology  resting  on  biblical  criticism  rather  than  on 
anybody's  logical  interpretation,  an  ethical  rather  than  a 
dogmatic  emphasis — these  were  the  dynamic  principles 
of  his  art.  Others  had  been  saying  the  same  thing.  A  writer 
in  the  Boston  Advertiser  wrote  in  commendation  of  the  ideas 
that  Smyth  had  expressed :  "  He  has  taken  up  the  new  line  of 
march  in  theological  constructions  with  a  strength  of  thought, 
with  a  moral  confidence  in  his  convictions,  with  a  breadth 
and  range  of  vision,  and  with  an  insight  into  existing  needs, 
that  places  him  at  one  bound  in  the  front  rank  of  the  men 
who  are  to  lead  the  next  generation  of  religious  teachers.   His 

-{168f 


essay  is  the  new  Protestant  landmark  in  religious  thought." 
It  was  impossible  to  change  the  minds  of  the  two  men  who 
had  alone  the  power  to  prevent  Smyth's  election.  Apparently 
the  machinery  of  the  Board  of  Visitors  was  a  stumbling-block 
to  any  progressive  development  of  the  Seminary,  particu- 
larly since  it  was  their  function  to  maintain  the  test  of  the 
Creed.  The  Trustees  thought  they  saw  a  way  around  the 
obstacle  by  appointing  Smyth  a  lecturer.  That  would  not 
require  creedal  avowals,  but  he  declined  such  a  subterfuge. 
Then  money  was  raised  to  establish  a  new  and  independent 
chair  of  instruction,  but  before  the  way  was  opened  Smyth 
was  called  to  a  commanding  position  as  minister  in  New 
Haven,  and  the  case  was  closed. 

It  seemed  to  the  progressive  friends  of  the  Seminary  that 
a  great  opportunity  had  been  missed  to  make  Andover  a  leader 
in  the  way  that  theology  should  go.  The  conservatives 
breathed  more  easily  when  the  line  of  defence  held.  The  Con- 
gregationalist  assumed  the  championship  of  the  old  theolog}% 
and  particularly  deprecated  the  attitude  of  Newman  Smyth 
on  the  subject  of  retribution  after  death.  He  had  suggested 
that  those  who  in  this  world  have  no  opportunity  to  know 
the  appeal  of  Christ  might  have  an  opportunity  in  the  life  of 
the  future.  This  doctrine  of  second  probation,  as  it  was  called, 
became  the  center  of  discussion  in  the  period  of  controversy 
which  followed.  The  discussion  of  second  probation  did  not 
come  unheralded.  The  thought  of  it  was  suggested  by  the 
idea  of  a  general  atonement  which  had  been  maintained  by 
the  Younger  Edwards.  The  Calvinistic  dogma  of  eternal 
punishment  was  being  relaxed.  At  several  installation  coun- 
cils, including  that  of  Smyth  at  New  Haven,  the  question  of 
a  larger  hope  was  raised,  and  the  weight  of  opinion  was  getting 
more  liberal.  Such  a  discussion  easily  affected  the  missionary 
organization  of  the  denomination,  and  the  cry  was  raised 
that  the  acceptance  of  such  a  theory  would  cut  the  nerve 
of  missions.  The  Andover  Creed  did  not  deal  directly 
with  the  question,  but  it  was  plain  enough  that  any  relaxa- 
tion of  the  idea  of  future  punishment  was  contrary  to  the 
spirit  of  the  Creed. 


The  attitude  of  the  Faculty  was  vital  to  the  success  of  either 
party  to  the  controversy.  At  the  time  there  was  an  almost 
entirely  new  Faculty  at  Andover.  Egbert  C.  Smyth,  the 
brother  of  Newman  Smyth,  was  its  senior  member,  for  he 
had  come  to  the  Seminary  in  1863  as  the  successor  of  Pro- 
fessor Shedd  in  the  department  of  history.  He  was  president 
of  the  Faculty  from  1877  to  1896.  He  was  equipped  with 
foreign  university  study,  and  his  scholarship  was  broad  and 
accurate.  His  historical  information  was  supplemented  by 
his  knowledge  of  philosophy  and  he  was  a  master  in  theology. 
In  his  study  and  teaching  of  history  his  chief  interest  was 
the  interpretation  of  the  Christian  thought  of  the  centuries. 
Professor  Harris,  his  colleague  for  sixteen  years,  spoke  of 
him  as  a  teacher  who  quietly  opened  the  way  of  a  more  spir- 
itual and  ethical  theology,  and  as  a  lover  of  nature  and  art 
and  literature,  as  far  as  he  discovered  in  them  an  avenue  to 
the  spiritual.  Harris  called  him  ''a  man  beloved,  a  sympa- 
thetic friend,  a  mediator,  a  hopeful  optimist,  who  taught 
men  to  express  themselves,  knowing  it  is  better  to  speak  five 
words  that  can  be  understood  than  ten  thousand  words  in  an 
unknown,  indistinct  tongue." 

John  Wesley  Churchill  came  five  years  later  than  Smyth, 
to  serve  the  Seminary  as  teacher  of  elocution  for  thirty-two 
years.  Sympathetic  with  a  liberal  attitude  in  theology,  he  had 
no  hesitation  in  joining  his  colleagues  in  their  plans  for 
broadening  the  Seminary.  Though  much  of  his  thought  was 
conservative,  he  became  one  of  the  leaders  of  the  forward 
movement  at  Andover.  Ten  years  after  Churchill  came  John 
P.  Gulliver  to  be  the  first  professor  on  the  recently  established 
foundation  of  the  relations  of  Christianity  and  Science.  He 
was  a  man  of  experience  when  he  came  to  Andover,  includ- 
ing twenty-nine  years  of  pastoral  service  and  four  as  presi- 
dent of  Knox  College.  He  was  a  prophet  of  reform,  and 
fought  many  a  battle  against  evil. 

The  next  year  brought  William  Jewett  Tucker  to  the  Bartlet 
chair  of  sacred  rhetoric.  After  eight  successful  years  in 
Manchester,  New  Hampshire,  he  had  been  pastor  of  the 
Madison  Avenue  Presbyterian  Church  in   New  York  City 


for  four  years.  He  brought  with  him  a  deep  human  sym- 
pathy which  made  him  popular  with  students  and  Faculty 
alike.  He  was  among  the  first  to  see  the  social  implications 
of  the  Christian  religion,  and  his  pastoral  experience  had 
made  him  understand  and  sympathize  with  the  aspirations  of 
the  working  folk.  He  faced  the  new  period  that  was  dawning 
with  a  realization  that  theological  concepts  and  formulas 
must  be  changed.  He  was  an  interpreter  of  a  dynamic  Chris- 
tian thought,  as  Park  was  of  a  static  theology.  But  it  was  his 
moral  leadership  which  made  him  a  power  in  pulpit  and  class- 
room. He  was  much  in  demand  in  Congregational  pulpits. 
In  his  department  of  homiletics  he  taught  what  he  exempli- 
fied, that  it  is  the  consecrated  personality  of  the  preacher  which 
makes  his  sermons  effective.  He  joined  heartily  in  the  mod- 
ernizing process  through  which  the  Seminary  was  passing, 
and  his  courage  and  strength,  with  his  ability  to  make  the 
Congregational  constituency  see  the  reasonableness  of  the 
Faculty,  were  a  bulwark  to  his  colleagues  in  a  time  of  stress. 
In  later  years  at  Dartmouth  he  was  to  become  known  more 
widely  as  a  great  college  president,  a  lecturer  on  various 
foundations  in  Boston,  Cambridge,  New  Haven,  and  New 
York  City,  and  a  frequent  contributor  to  the  Atlantic  Monthly. 

The  year  1883  added  five  new  professors.  One  of  these 
was  Dr.  John  Phelps  Taylor,  a  minister  in  New  London,  son 
of  a  former  professor.  Dr.  John  Lord  Taylor.  The  senior 
Taylor  had  been  president  of  the  Faculty,  and  had  taught 
biblical  theology  on  the  Smith  foundation  to  men  of  the 
special  course.  He  saw  the  importance  of  a  chair  devoted  to 
that  special  subject,  and  made  provision  for  it.  Reverend 
Edward  Young  Hincks  came  from  Portland,  Maine,  to  teach 
the  biblical  doctrines  while  Taylor  took  care  of  the  history 
and  customs. 

A  flurry  of  excitement  was  caused  by  the  resignation  of  Pro- 
fessors Mead  and  Thayer  because  they  objected  to  repeating 
the  Creed  every  five  years.  This  repetition  of  the  Creed,  it  may 
be  noted,  ceased  in  1900,  by  virtue  of  a  ruling  of  the  Visitors 
that  the  provision  on  this  subject  in  the  Statutes  was 
"directory  and  not  essential."    Mead  had  come  four  years 


after  his  graduation  from  the  Seminary  to  teach  the  He- 
brew language  and  Hterature.  Soon  afterward  Thayer  had 
arrived  fresh  from  Germany  and  enthusiastic  for  new  thought 
and  science.  His  attitude,  which  was  very  different  from  the 
dogmatism  of  Park,  lecturing  across  the  hall,  is  expressed  in 
his  statement  to  his  class:  *' Gentlemen,  it  is  not  for  me  to 
defend  the  Faith.  A  true  faith  will  defend  itself.  It  is  my  duty 
to  guide  you  with  open  mind,  humble  spirit,  and  a  pure  heart 
to  the  Truth,  the  Truth  alone,  wherever  it  may  lead  you,  and  be 
ye  sure  that  it  will  always  lead  you  to  a  fuller  knowledge  of 
Christ,  who  is  the  Truth.  Hold  as  for  your  life  to  that 
attitude  of  mind.  Seek  the  Truth  and  the  Truth  will  make 
you  free."  Both  Mead  and  Thayer  were  too  jealous  of  their 
personal  liberty  to  remain  under  suspicion  because  they  dis- 
liked to  sign  the  Creed  so  often,  and  their  resignation  came 
soon  after  nearly  twenty  years  of  distinguished  service  on 
their  part.  They  differed  from  the  professors  who  remained 
in  that  they  demanded  that  the  boards  of  control  should 
guarantee  their  freedom,  while  the  others  were  content  with 
their  right  to  defend  their  freedom.  The  Trustees  elected 
George  Foot  Moore  to  follow  Mead.  He  came  from  a  Pres- 
byterian pastorate  in  Ohio,  and  remained  for  nearly  twenty 
years  at  Andover.  During  that  time  he  won  a  world-wide 
reputation  as  an  Old  Testament  scholar.  Then  he  went  to 
Harvard  as  professor  of  the  history  of  religions,  where  he 
gained  renown  second  to  none  in  that  field.  Mr.  Frank  E. 
Woodruff  was  called  from  a  fellowshi])  at  Union  Seminary 
to  occupy  the  New  Testament  chair,  but  he  retired  after  four 
years  to  go  to  Bowdoin. 

George  Harris  was  the  fifth  new  professor  of  the  year.  The 
Trustees  were  desirous  that  the  discussion  of  theological 
questions  in  the  Seminary  should  be  on  a  broader  platform 
than  a  single  issue  about  the  future  life,  and  if  Newman  Smyth 
could  not  be  obtained  for  the  Abbot  chair  of  theolog}-,  they 
wished  to  secure  a  competent,  fearless,  progressive  teacher, 
who  would  treat  every  question  on  its  merits.  The  Faculty 
was  in  full  sympathy  with  that  purpose.  The  choice  fell  upon 
Dr.  Harris,  who  at  that  time  was  minister  to  the  Central  Con- 

i\72Y 


gregational  Church  in  Providence.  Harris  had  graduated 
from  Andover  in  the  class  of  1869,  he  was  known  to  possess 
the  desired  quahfications,  and  his  coming  was  not  opposed  by 
the  Visitors. 

Of  the  Faculty  as  a  group  Harris  said  at  the  anniversary 
of  one  hundred  years  :  "  It  was  a  company  unbroken  for  years, 
knit  together  in  personal  love,  united  in  a  common  interest,  in 
the  service  of  an  institution,  in  the  cause  of  truth  and  right- 
eousness. In  those  years  a  victory  was  gained  for  the  freedom 
of  a  Christian  man." 

Since  the  controversy  over  Newman  Smyth  was  a  theo- 
logical issue,  interest  centered  around  the  inaugurations  of  the 
two  men  who  were  to  teach  theology.  The  address  of  Pro- 
fessor Harris  was  very  long,  but  it  was  printed  in  full  in  the 
Christian  Union,  with  editorial  comment  on  the  theological 
disturbances.  Dr.  Park,  now  in  retirement,  but  mentally 
active  and  deeply  concerned  with  the  new  theology,  carefully 
prepared  a  brochure  of  ninety-six  pages,  and  it  was  published 
by  a  committee  of  six  sympathizers.  The  pamphlet  was  con- 
troversial, intended  to  spike  the  guns  of  the  Faculty,  and  to 
prove  their  disloyalty  to  the  old  Creed.  Park  had  wielded  the 
instruments  of  offence  for  so  long  that  he  had  absorbed  the 
atmosphere  of  conflict.  Some  years  before,  while  in  the  midst 
of  his  professional  career,  he  had  disagreed  with  his  colleagues 
over  matters  of  Faculty  administration  so  far  that  he  had  re- 
fused to  fraternize  with  them  or  bear  his  part  in  the  adminis- 
tration. The  attack  upon  the  new  Faculty  could  be  justified 
only  on  the  ground  of  theological  mihtarism.  Newspaper  com- 
ments criticised  the  pamphlet  as  technical,  adroitly  attempting 
to  prove  from  the  Creed  that  the  professors  were  guilty  of 
holding  a  doctrine  which  the  Creed  did  not  mention.  But  Park 
was  sustained  by  many  of  the  denominational  leaders  who  felt 
that  the  members  of  the  Faculty  were  teaching  a  new  and 
false  theology,  and  who  found  in  the  implications  of  the  Creed, 
if  not  in  its  text,  belief  in  the  present  life  as  the  only  period 
of  probation  for  man. 

The  Andover  Faculty  was  indeed  introducing  a  new  the- 
ology, but  it  was  not  so  radical  as  the  conservatives  seemed  to 


think.  The  Faculty  was  handicapped  always  by  the  necessity 
of  adjusting  a  fixed  creed  to  a  dynamic  movement.  It  was 
unfortunate  that  the  center  of  interest  should  be  a  doctrine 
which  was  only  a  corollary  of  the  main  principles,  because 
the  main  issue  was  much  larger  than  the  doctrine  of  second 
probation.  The  New  England  theology  had  stood  foursquare 
on  the  doctrines  of  the  trustworthiness  of  Scripture,  the  sin- 
fulness of  man,  the  governmental  theory  of  the  atonement, 
and  the  certainty  of  future  punishment.  The  new  theology 
granted  recognition  to  the  modern  criticism  of  the  Bible,  and 
to  the  doctrine  of  an  immanent  God  and  an  evolutionary 
principle  in  nature ;  reflected  the  ideas  of  Bushnell  regarding 
the  nature  of  man ;  and  shifted  the  emphasis  from  the  atone- 
ment to  the  incarnation.  The  new  emphasis  on  the  incarnation 
was  a  return  to  the  Greek  theology,  which  after  the  fifth  cen- 
tury had  been  overshadowed  by  the  emphasis  on  sin  and  the 
need  of  salvation  which  was  characteristic  of  Latin  theology. 
It  seemed  as  if  the  Andover  theologians  were  tearing  away 
a  precious  garment  of  the  Christian  faith. 

The  Andover  Faculty  felt  the  need  of  an  organ  for  the  ex- 
pression of  their  opinions,  and  so  founded  the  Andover 
Review,  which  for  nine  years  furnished  the  medium  for  the 
explanation  of  the  new  theology.  Five  members  of  the  Faculty 
constituted  the  editorial  board,  and  the  Andover  Review  Com- 
pany was  formed  to  take  care  of  the  business  end.  A  contract 
was  made  with  Houghton  Mifflin  &  Company  to  publish  the 
Reviezv  monthly.  There  was  the  more  room  for  it  now  that  the 
Bihliotheca  Sacra  had  taken  wings  to  Oberlin.  The  prospectus 
of  the  new  review  stated  that  it  would  "advocate  the  principles 
and  represent  the  spirit  and  method  of  progressive  orthodoxy." 
The  editors  hoped  to  make  it  representative  of  the  best  modern 
thought,  and  particularly  to  "show  the  obligations  of  theology 
to  the  social  and  religious  Hfe  of  the  time."  They  were  less 
interested  in  speculation  than  in  guiding  opinion  construc- 
tively to  build  a  vital  faith.  The  Review  rallied  the  forces 
of  the  liberals,  and  brought  them  out  into  the  open  to  contend 
for  intellectual  freedom  and  the  idea  of  progress  in  theology. 
The  thesis  of  the  new  theologians  was  made  the  title  of  a  book 


which  appeared  shortly  as  "Progressive  Orthodoxy."  Its 
chapters  were  an  expansion  of  editorials  which  had  appeared 
in  the  Review,  and  were  an  attempt  to  show  the  true  meaning 
of  the  New  Theology.  They  dealt  with  the  incarnation  and 
the  atonement,  with  the  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  with  Chris- 
tian missions  and  eschatology,  with  the  Scriptures  and  the 
universaHty  of  Christianity.  Later  a  second  series  of  editorials 
was  published  under  the  title  of  "The  Divinity  of  Christ." 
The  term  "Progressive  Orthodoxy"  was  peculiarly  expres- 
sive of  the  position  held  by  the  Andover  Faculty.  Instead  of 
the  static  system  of  the  past  they  would  have  an  intellectual 
faith  that  throbbed  with  life  and  power.  They  would  put 
life  into  the  dry  bones  of  orthodoxy,  not  destroy  it.  They 
found  inspiration  in  a  Bible  that  was  a  progressive  revelation 
of  God's  dealing  with  men,  in  a  Spirit  patiently  wooing  hu- 
mankind to  allegiance  to  the  highest  ideals,  in  a  hope  that 
God's  purpose  for  the  world  would  not  be  defeated  by  pagan- 
ism, but  that  in  His  good  way  and  time  He  would  get  His 
appeal  to  them  and  win  their  response.  They  were  not  skeptics 
or  Unitarians,  but  it  was  difficult  for  those  who  held  the  old 
point  of  view  to  see  anything  but  heresy  in  the  new.  The  dis- 
cussion was  enlivened  by  Joseph  Cook,  who  in  his  preludes 
before  his  Monday  lectures  to  thousands  in  Tremont  Temple, 
unlimbered  his  guns  against  Professor  Smyth,  and  by  Profes- 
sor Park,  who  issued  anonymously  the  so-called  Worcester 
Creed  for  the  orthodox. 

It  is  quite  correct  to  speak  of  the  new  theology  as  more 
humane  than  the  old.  It  was  based  on  the  love  of  God  rather 
than  on  the  rigors  of  the  law.  It  envisaged  human  relations 
as  well  as  divine,  and  saw  that  Christianity  must  be  applied 
to  these  social  relations  and  their  economic  and  social  prob- 
lems. It  is  significant  that  the  social  settlement  movement 
found  a  sponsor  in  Professor  Tucker,  one  of  the  editors  of 
the  Andover  Review.  It  was  a  long  way  from  a  creed  that 
required  the  professors  to  denounce  Roman  Catholics  to  a 
practice  of  friendly  neighborliness  with  Irish  Americans  in 
the  South  End  of  Boston.  And  it  was  certainly  a  new  depart- 
ure to  think  of  the  heathen  as  subjects  of  divine  and  human 


compassion  both  now  and  hereafter  rather  than  as  brands  to 
be  plucked  from  the  burning,  trophies  of  a  selective  grace. 

The  doctrine  of  second  probation  sponsored  by  the  Andover 
Faculty  as  a  part  of  their  broader  creed  brought  them  directly 
into  conflict  with  the  American  Board  in  Boston  and  with 
the  Congregationalist,  which  represented  editorially  the  older 
theological  position.  Personal  animosities  were  inescapable. 
Unfriendliness  appeared  in  the  meetings  of  the  Board  and 
at  the  Anniversaries  of  the  denomination.  It  was  especially 
apparent  when  Andover  graduates  appeared  as  candidates 
for  missionary  appointments,  and  it  acted  to  hinder  the  return 
to  the  field  of  so  brilliant  a  missionary  as  Robert  A.  Hume. 

The  Faculty  went  on  with  the  regular  work  of  the  school, 
though  the  controversy  was  a  disturbing  element.  The  wide 
interest  in  theological  changes,  the  new  social  conditions  con- 
sequent upon  the  growth  of  urban  centers,  and  the  new  depart- 
ments of  study  at  Andover,  attracted  students  to  the  advanced 
courses,  which  were  established  about  1880.  More  than  one 
hundred  students  were  enrolled  in  these  courses  during  the 
period  of  controversy.  The  record  of  their  work  was  pre- 
served in  the  Seminary  Bulletin,  which  was  published  monthly. 

Eventually  the  controversy  came  to  a  head  with  charges  of 
heresy  brought  against  the  five  members  of  the  editorial  board 
of  the  Andover  Review.  This  was  in  the  summer  of  1886. 
The  Visitors  had  received  complaints  against  the  professors 
which  called  upon  the  Faculty  to  disprove  the  charges  that 
they  were  disloyal  to  the  Hopkinsian  Creed  and  the  West- 
minster Catechism,  and  that  they  taught  doctrines  that  were 
subversive  of  orthodoxy.  The  professors  replied  promptly. 
Legal  counsel  was  secured  on  both  sides,  and  a  trial  of  the 
professors  under  indictment  was  held  in  Boston  before  the 
Visitors.  In  their  decision  the  Visitors  singled  out  Professor 
Egbert  C.  Smyth  for  judgment,  condemning  him  on  three 
counts:  first,  **that  the  Bible  is  not  the  only  rule  of  faith  and 
practice,  but  is  fallible  and  untrustworthy,  even  in  some  of  its 
religious  teaching"  ;  second,  "that  no  man  has  power  or  capac- 
ity to  repent  without  knowledge  of  God  in  Christ";  third, 
"that  there  is  and  will  be  probation  after  death  for  all  men 


who  do  not  decisively  reject  Christ  during  the  earthly  life." 
With  respect  to  the  complaints  against  the  remaining  four 
professors,  the  Visitors  announced  that  Reverend  William  T. 
Eustis,  the  secretary  of  the  Board,  had  declined  to  act  with 
his  associates  upon  the  ground  that  he  was  not  present  on 
the  day  when  these  professors  appeared  and  made  their  state- 
ments in  their  defence,  and  that  none  of  the  charges  against 
these  professors  were  sustained  by  the  other  members  of  the 
Board.  As  afterwards  developed,  the  president  of  the  Board, 
President  Julius  Seelye  of  Amherst  College,  voted  to  dis- 
miss the  charges  against  all  the  professors,  whereas  Mr. 
Joshua  Newell  Marshall  voted  to  condemn  all.  Since  Dr. 
Eustis  declined  to  vote  except  in  the  case  of  Professor  Smyth, 
the  charges  against  the  other  professors  were  not  sustained, 
although  the  complainants  against  them  were  the  same  as  that 
against  Professor  Smyth,  and  all  were  equally  responsible  for 
the  utterances  complained  of. 

Professor  Smyth  appealed  from  the  decision  to  the  Supreme 
Judicial  Court  of  Massachusetts,  maintaining  both  that  the 
action  of  the  Visitors  was  unwarranted  as  a  matter  of  law, 
and  that  the  decision  was  tainted  with  partiality  because  Dr. 
Eustis  had  so  prejudged  the  case  as  to  disqualify  him  from 
acting  judicially.  The  Trustees  made  their  own  investigation 
and  found  the  charges  ill-founded.  They  therefore  supported 
Smyth  by  legal  counsel.  They  were  interested  in  the  question 
that  was  involved,  whether  the  Visitors  were  exceeding  their 
powers.  The  case  was  argued  before  the  Court  in  the  fall  of 
1890,  and  a  year  later  the  Court  rendered  its  decision.  The 
Court  unanimously  affirmed  the  constitutionality  and  the 
original  jurisdiction  of  the  Board  of  Visitors,  which  had  been 
questioned  by  Smyth,  but  a  majority  of  the  Court — Chief 
Justice  Field  dissenting — set  aside  the  verdict  of  the  Visitors 
that  Smyth  should  be  removed  from  his  professorship,  on  the 
ground  that  the  Trustees  had  not  been  allowed  on  their  appli- 
cation to  be  heard  in  the  case.  This  did  not  end  the  matter, 
for  a  new  hearing  was  held  by  the  Visitors  in  1892,  at  which 
the  Trustees  were  represented  by  a  committee.  Smyth  was 
charged  by  his  opponents  with  pantheism,  Universalism,  and 

n77Y 


disreputable  morality,  because  he  kept  his  chair  of  instruc- 
tion. The  Board  of  Visitors,  whose  composition  had  mean- 
while changed,  disposed  of  the  matter  by  a  resolution  to  the 
effect  that  in  view  of  the  lapse  of  time,  the  inconsistency  in 
the  former  decision,  and  other  special  circumstances,  the 
Visitors  could  better  fulfil  their  responsibilities  by  other 
methods,  and  "that  without  thereby  expressing  any  opinion 
upon  the  merits  of  the  case,  the  complaint  against  Professor 
Smyth  should  be  dismissed." 

The  conclusion  of  the  case  brought  relief  to  the  members 
of  the  Faculty,  who  with  a  continual  handicap  had  carried 
on  their  teaching  without  a  break.  It  was  especially  a  relief 
to  Professor  Smyth,  who  had  borne  the  brunt  of  the  attack. 
He  had  shown  a  patience  and  courage  that  endeared  him  to 
his  friends  and  won  the  respect  of  his  enemies.  The  members 
of  the  Faculty  had  stood  by  one  another  during  the  storm. 
Professor  Harris  was  stalwart  in  his  defence  of  the  new 
theology  and  quick  to  appreciate  its  social  implications.  Pro- 
fessor Tucker  was  equally  at  home  in  systematic  and  practical 
theology,  and  on  the  platform  as  well  as  in  the  pages  of  the 
And  over  Review  he  won  friends  for  the  modern  point  of  view 
in  religion.  Professor  Hincks  mingled  biblical  criticism  with 
a  deep  spirituality  which  was  a  part  of  his  religious  nature 
and  which  was  reinforced  by  his  vacation  communings  in  his 
cabin  high  up  on  the  northern  slope  of  the  White  Mountains. 
Professor  Churchill,  the  fifth  member  of  the  editorial  board 
of  the  Reviezu,  while  not  an  aggressive  disputant,  was  a  be- 
liever in  Christian  freedom,  and  on  that  ground  he  supported 
his  colleagues. 

The  net  consequence  of  the  controversy  was  to  strengthen 
the  hands  of  liberals  who  were  struggling  for  theological 
freedom,  as  men  of  previous  generations  had  fought  for  lib- 
erty of  conscience.  Union  Seminary  in  New  York  during  the 
same  period  strove  for  the  principle  of  biblical  interpretation 
according  to  the  canons  of  criticism.  Together  Andover  and 
Union  stood  in  the  forefront  of  the  battle  that  was  to  divide 
denominations  from  within  and  to  threaten  to  break  them 
wide  open,  the  battle  between  the  two  principles  of  a  fixed 

-{l78^ 


body  of  doctrine  once  delivered  to  the  saints  and  a  growing 
understanding  of  the  mind  of  God  on  the  basis  of  reason  and 
experience.  Of  the  Andover  Review  Frederic  Palmer  said : 
*'It  has  stimulated  thought,  deepened  piety,  enlarged  the 
visible  horizon  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  set  a  wonderful 
example  of  Christian  courtesy  in  polemics,  and  saved  the  Con- 
gregational body  from  destruction  at  the  hands  of  the  intel- 
lectual deadness  and  narrow  ecclesiasticism  of  its  own  High 
Church  party.  Its  influence  is  now  established.  The  new 
theology  ...  is  preached  from  many  a  pulpit  and  editorial 
chair  where  it  is  not  at  all  recognized  as  Andover  theology, 
but  is  unconsciously  supposed  to  be  Theology  itself,  the  only 
normal  and  proper  thing.  What  greater  success  can  any 
scheme  of  thought  desire  than  to  lose  its  distinctive  name  and 
supersede  itself  ?  " 

The  Seminary  itself  did  not  emerge  from  the  conflict  un- 
scathed. The  wounds  of  theological  wars  are  slow  to  heal. 
The  spirit  of  the  school  had  been  generous  in  its  freedom  to 
the  professors  in  spite  of  the  ancient  standards.  In  1868  a 
student  wrote  that  the  Faculty  would  let  a  man  have  liberty 
to  think,  and  there  was  no  objection  to  the  progress  of  scien- 
tific investigation.  "Andover  does  not  watch  with  quaking 
the  approach  of  modern  science ;  for  its  faith  is  not  grounded 
in  the  letter,  but  in  the  spirit  of  revelation,  and  it  holds  no 
theory  which  it  is  not  willing  to  be  submitted  to  the  test  of 
enlightened  reason."  And  the  Trustees  did  not  hamper  the 
freedom  of  the  classroom.  But  the  Seminary  continued  to 
bear  the  scars  of  the  acute  controversy  of  the  decade.  At- 
tendance declined,  for  students  did  not  wish  to  be  involved 
in  the  issues,  and  to  be  a  graduate  of  Andover  during  those 
years  was  to  incur  the  suspicion  of  heterodoxy.  But  the 
Faculty  faced  the  future  with  resolution  and  courage. 

An  indication  of  the  new  outlook  of  the  Seminary  was  the 
attention  given  to  social  questions.  Professor  Tucker  supplied 
the  impetus,  arranging  a  plan  for  the  Andover  House  in 
Boston,  so  that  several  residents  could  have  practical  experi- 
ence there  for  a  period  of  at  least  six  months  in  connection 
with  the  work  of  Berkeley  Temple.    Because  of  his  interest 

^179} 


in  the  subject  Robert  A.  Woods,  who  had  been  a  member  of 
the  Advanced  Class  in  1890  and  afterward  had  resided  for  a 
time  at  Toynbee  Hall  in  London,  became  head  of  Andover 
House,  and  lectured  on  social  questions  at  the  Seminary.  The 
Porter  Rhetorical  Society  discussed  social  problems  at  its 
meetings.  The  alumni  gave  a  day  at  the  Anniversaries  in  1896 
to  the  discussion  of  labor  and  other  social  issues,  with  special 
reference  to  the  duty  of  ministers  and  churches,  led  by  distin- 
guished speakers. 

It  was  a  period  when  conferences  were  popular.  Faculty 
and  students  met  for  a  fortnightly  conference  under  the 
direction  of  a  joint  committee  of  professors  and  students 
to  discuss  freely  matters  of  practical  importance  connected 
with  the  institutions  and  problems  of  modern  life.  One 
of  the  professors  presided  and  summed  up  the  discussion. 
Among  the  topics  discussed  were  the  observance  of  Sun- 
day, religious  education  in  the  public  schools,  the  attitude 
of  the  ministers  to  temperance  reform,  the  reorganization  of 
Congregational  churches,  and  methods  of  teaching  churches 
and  Sunday  schools  the  results  of  the  higher  criticism.  Once 
a  month  the  Faculty  and  graduate  students  met  for  a  paper 
by  a  student  and  the  discussion  of  it. 

A  pastoral  conference  on  Catechetics  by  those  who  were 
especially  interested  in  the  subject  brought  together  repre- 
sentative men  from  everywhere  in  1900.  They  attempted  to 
evaluate  the  catechetical  method  of  instruction  in  religion, 
and  during  the  day  discussed  the  church  and  the  home,  the 
church  in  the  city,  parochialization  as  a  substitute  for  evan- 
gelization, Roman  Catholic  methods  of  child  care,  and  the 
practical  use  of  the  catechism. 

Back  in  1877  the  members  of  the  Faculty  had  enjoyed  a 
local  club,  which  included  their  wives  and  persons  of  culture 
in  the  community.  They  called  themselves  "The  Owls." 
Meetings  were  held  fortnightly  at  the  houses  of  the  profes- 
sors or  of  the  principal  of  the  Academy,  when  papers  on 
learned  subjects  were  read  and  discussed,  and  individual 
readings  were  reported.  The  meetings  were  of  a  confidential 
nature;  the  members  were  to  be  "at  once,  condignly,  igno- 

-{ISOh 


miniously,  unanimously,  and  irrecoverably  expelled  without 
further  accusation,  arraignment,  trial,  or  conviction,  and 
without  benefit  of  clergy"  if  they  divulged  remarks  that  were 
made  in  the  inner  circle.  It  was  optional  with  the  ladies 
whether  or  not  they  should  participate  actively  in  the  exer- 
cises. Most  of  the  subjects  discussed  were  classical,  theologi- 
cal, historical,  or  descriptive ;  now  and  then  an  original  poem 
was  read  or  a  prominent  book  reviewed.  The  club  served  as 
mild  recreation  and  an  intellectual  stimulus  to  the  professional 
people  of  Andover,  and  its  list  of  members  reads  hke  an  in- 
tellectual register.   But  it  lasted  for  only  a  short  time. 

The  Faculty  swung  into  line  with  other  divinity  schools  by 
suggesting  to  the  Trustees  in  1896  the  desirability  of  granting 
the  degree  of  Bachelor  of  Divinity  to  students  who  had  had 
the  college  training  and  who  completed  the  full  course  at 
Andover.  The  Trustees  agreed  and  applied  for  authority  to 
the  Massachusetts  Legislature,  which  granted  the  privilege. 
The  degree  was  conferred  on  several  graduates  of  former 
years,  including  Dr.  Cole  of  Wheaton  and  Professor  Ropes 
of  Harvard. 

There  were  special  occasions  when  Faculty  and  students 
assembled  to  do  special  honor  to  a  man  or  an  organization, 
and  invited  speakers  from  outside  the  Seminary.  In  1897 
came  the  four  hundredth  anniversary  of  the  birth  of  Me- 
lanchthon,  the  German  reformer  and  theologian.  The  stu- 
dents sang  German  and  Latin  hymns,  and  listened  to  an 
address  on  the  man  and  his  character.  Six  years  later  a  more 
elaborate  celebration  marked  the  two  hundredth  anniversary 
of  the  birth  of  Jonathan  Edwards.  Dr.  William  R.  Richards 
of  the  Brick  Church  in  New  York  City  preached  a  commemo- 
rative sermon.  Alumni  and  other  ministers  and  professors 
from  Harvard  and  Boston  University  gathered  with  the 
students  to  listen  to  addresses  from  Professors  Smyth  and 
Platner  of  Andover  and  Professor  Woodbridge  of  Columbia, 
and  a  poem  from  Dr.  Samuel  V.  Cole  of  Wheaton  Seminary. 
Dr.  James  Orr  of  the  University  of  Glasgow  came  with  a  con- 
gratulatory message  from  the  United  Free  Church  College, 
and  addressed  the  gathering  on  the  Influence  of  Edwards. 


A  reception  and  collation  in  Bartlet  Chapel  added  spice  to 
the  exercises. 

Another  special  occasion  was  a  memorial  service  for  Pro- 
fessor Smyth,  who  died  in  1904  and  was  buried  in  the  Chapel 
Cemetery.  Seminary  exercises  were  omitted  on  the  day  when 
the  town  of  Andover  celebrated  its  two  hundred  and  fiftieth 
anniversary ;  on  the  day  when  Admiral  Dewey  came  to  Boston 
after  his  victory  at  Manila;  and  again  when  the  American 
Missionary  Association  held  its  jubilee  meeting  in  Boston. 

Among  the  improvements  of  the  period  were  the  installa- 
tion of  electric  lights  in  Bartlet  Chapel  and  the  Library,  made 
possible  by  the  generosity  of  a  friend,  and  the  introduction 
of  the  practice  of  wearing  academic  costume  at  Commence- 
ment time. 

The  Faculty  and  the  Trustees  cooperated  to  enrich  the 
mental  and  spiritual  life  of  the  students.  Among  the  preachers 
who  addressed  the  students  were  Gordon,  Cuthbert  Hall, 
Harris,  Cadman,  Speer,  Eaton  of  Beloit,  Harry  P.  Dewey, 
and  Joseph  Neesima.  Special  lecturers  included  George  Adam 
Smith  and  Cheyne  from  Great  Britain,  Bowne  and  Cuthbert 
Hall  from  America.  For  periods  of  a  year  or  two  Alexander 
Mackenzie,  W.  H.  Hocking,  and  W.  W.  Rockwell  were  ap- 
pointed to  lecture  on  pastoral  theology,  the  history  of  religions, 
and  the  history  of  the  Christian  Church. 

In  the  natural  course  of  events  changes  occurred  in  the 
Faculty.  Professor  Park,  so  long  emeritus,  and  Professor 
Churchill  died.  Friends  of  Churchill  fitted  up  a  memorial 
room  in  his  honor,  which  was  designed  as  a  center  of  student 
life.  Reverend  William  H.  Ryder  succeeded  Woodruff  in 
1888,  remaining  thirty  years  in  the  New  Testament  chair. 
He  had  been  soldier,  teacher  and  pastor,  and  he  brought  to 
Andover  not  only  experience  but  scholarly  qualities  couj)led 
with  an  inspiring  personality.  He  was  modest  and  considerate 
of  those  who  differed  from  him,  open-minded  in  his  attitude 
and  frank  in  his  speech.  The  Smyth  trial  was  hardly  over 
before  Ryder  was  accused  of  heresy  on  the  doctrines  of  the 
Trinity  and  the  Person  of  Christ.  The  Trustees  investigated 
and  exonerated  him.  The  Visitors  were  not  so  easily  satisfied, 

iis2y 


but  at  length  peace  was  made.  The  Trustees  took  the  ground 
that  the  Creed  was  to  be  interpreted  hberally  for  substance  of 
doctrine,  and  the  Visitors  did  not  make  official  objection. 
Ryder  had  such  a  strong  Christian  faith  and  was  so  charming 
a  gentleman  that  it  was  difficult  to  hold  an  unfriendly  opinion 
against  him. 

Reverend  Theodore  C.  Pease,  a  graduate  of  Harvard  and 
thirteen  years  a  pastor,  was  elected  to  succeed  Professor 
Tucker  in  the  chair  of  sacred  rhetoric,  when  Tucker  went  to 
the  presidency  of  Dartmouth  in  1893.  Sadness  and  disappoint- 
ment came  with  his  death  when  he  had  but  commenced  his 
service,  but  his  memory  was  preserved  in  his  sermons,  poems, 
and  printed  inaugural.  In  1896  thirty-three  students  asked 
for  a  special  course  of  instruction  in  foreign  missions,  pref- 
erably from  Dr.  C.  C.  Torrey,  a  request  which  the  Trustees 
granted.  Torrey  had  been  an  Andover  Fellow,  had  studied 
abroad,  and  at  the  time  was  an  instructor  in  Semitic  languages 
in  the  Seminary.  Later  he  was  the  Taylor  professor  of  biblical 
history  for  a  year  and  then  went  to  Yale,  as  Moore  went  to 
Harvard.  The  two  men  were  close  friends  and  during  their 
summer  vacations  enjoyed  roughing  it  together  in  and  about 
their  log  cabin  on  the  slope  of  Mount  Adams  in  northern 
New  Hampshire. 

Dr.  Owen  A.  Gates  came  to  the  Old  Testament  department 
of  instruction,  served  for  years  as  secretary  of  the  Faculty, 
and  succeeded  Ropes  as  librarian.  William  R.  Arnold  was 
inducted  into  the  professorship  of  the  Hebrew  language  and 
literature  in  1903,  and  remained  until  Seminary  exercises 
were  suspended  in  1926.  Dr.  Charles  O.  Day  became  pro- 
fessor of  practical  theology  in  1901,  and  was  made  president 
of  the  Faculty.  He  had  the  difficult  task  of  holding  the  school 
together  in  a  period  of  decline,  and  gallantly  stayed  at  his 
post  when  he  might  have  gone  to  college  presidencies  else- 
where. He  was  active  in  denominational  affairs,  trying  to 
keep  the  Seminary  in  contact  with  the  churches.  He  was 
cherished  by  his  colleagues  and  was  popular  among  the  boys 
of  the  Academy,  so  that  they  gave  him  the  rare  honor  of 
stopping  at  his  house  for  a  speech  after  they  had  won  an 


athletic  victory.  It  was  Professor  Day  who  in  1902  announced 
the  beginnings  of  the  conferences  with  Harvard  over  the 
project  of  removal  to  Cambridge.  Professor  John  W.  Platner 
came  from  the  Harvard  Divinity  School  to  teach  history  in 
1901.  He  made  his  largest  contribution  to  the  Seminary  after 
the  transfer  to  Cambridge. 

Thus  the  Seminary  prepared  itself  to  enter  upon  the  twen- 
tieth century,  proud  of  its  long  past  and  hoping  for  an  assured 
future. 


4184h 


CHAPTER   IX 

LIBERTY  AND  UNION 

A  GAIN  it  is  Commencement  Week  on  Andover  Hill.  No 
AX  longer  do  the  Anniversaries  come  in  late  midsummer, 
^  jL  when  harvest  is  ripening  to  its  fruitage,  but  in  June 
when  the  year  feels  the  strength  of  its  youth  and  faces  the 
demands  of  its  maturity  confident  in  its  virile  powers.  At 
such  a  time  it  is  well  that  young  men  should  leave  the  shelter 
of  the  training  school  and  venture  forth  to  try  their  strength 
and  skill.  And  what  more  beautiful  setting  for  Commence- 
ment than  an  elm-shaded  campus  in  a  New  England  village, 
redolent  with  historic  memories  and  steeped  in  an  atmosphere 
that  has  been  laden  with  the  breath  of  culture  for  more  than 
one  hundred  years. 

The  Commencement  program  in  1905  brought  the  bacca- 
laureate sermon,  the  public  examinations,  and  the  annual 
meeting  of  the  Society  of  Inquiry,  with  an  ordination  service 
as  an  extra  on  Monday  evening.  The  alumni  held  their  busi- 
ness session  on  Wednesday.  The  alumni  of  a  school  have  the 
advantage  over  either  Faculty  or  Trustees  of  viewing  a  situ- 
ation against  the  background  of  their  undergraduate  experi- 
ences and  in  the  perspective  of  years  of  active  ministry.  They 
are  inclined  to  indulge  in  criticism,  though  they  mean  it  to  be 
constructive.  At  Andover  they  were  no  exception.  At  their 
meeting  they  discussed  the  attitude  of  educated  men  towards 
the  ministry,  and  resolved  that  the  executive  committee  of 
the  Alumni  Association  should  send  a  communication  to  all  the 
members,  urging  them  and  the  churches  to  see  that  young 
men  through  the  influence  of  pulpit  and  prayer  meeting 
may  become  sensitive  to  a  spiritual  call.  The  men  sat  down 
together  at  supper  in  Bartlet  Chapel,  and  afterward  came  the 
formal  exhibition  of  two  collections  recently  installed  in  the 

^1851> 


Museum.  One  was  the  Palestine  Collection,  obtained  through 
the  activity  of  Professor  John  Phelps  Taylor  and  bearing  his 
name,  the  other  the  missionary  collection,  which  was  a  me- 
morial to  Dr.  Daniel  T.  Fiske,  a  president  of  the  Trustees 
for  a  term  of  years.  Appropriate  addresses  were  made  and 
the  rooms  were  opened  for  inspection.  Thursday  brought 
the  exercises  of  the  graduating  class,  followed  by  the  alumni 
dinner,  with  nearly  one  hundred  persons  sharing  in  the  fel- 
lowship and  enjoying  the  postprandial  toasts. 

The  year  had  brought  changes  in  the  Faculty.  Professor 
Smyth  had  passed  on,  and  Professor  Platner  had  become 
Brown  professor  of  ecclesiastical  history,  specializing  for  the 
year  on  the  history  of  doctrine ;  Reverend  William  W.  Rock- 
well was  teaching  in  the  same  department.  Professor  Arnold 
had  fitted  into  the  Old  Testament  department,  and  had  the 
assistance  of  Dr.  Gates.  President  Day,  Professor  Hincks, 
now  senior  professor,  and  Professor  Ryder  continued  their 
several  responsibilities.  New  names  were  among  the  lecturers 
of  the  year.  Dr.  William  H.  Hocking  of  Harvard  presented 
the  religious  aspects  of  modern  philosophy  and  a  second 
course  on  the  history  of  religions.  Dr.  Robert  A.  Hume  of 
India  in  the  Hyde  lectures  discussed  missions  from  the  mod- 
ern point  of  view,  and  showed  their  relation  to  psychology 
and  sociology.  Professor  John  B.  Clark  of  Columbia  delivered 
the  Southworth  lectures  on  the  modern  economic  problems 
of  agriculture,  industry,  and  government  monopoly.  Nor  was 
the  old  concern  for  musical  instruction  permitted  to  lapse. 
Courses  in  the  theory  and  practice  of  church  music  and  prac- 
tical instruction  in  singing  stimulated  an  appreciation  in  the 
students  of  the  part  that  music  properly  plays  in  worship. 

Those  who  had  the  best  interests  of  the  Seminary  at  heart 
were  disturbed  over  the  small  number  of  students,  and  it  was 
felt  that  a  larger  use  should  be  made  of  the  facilities  of  the 
Seminary.  It  was  this  in  part  that  had  prompted  the  Easter 
Theological  School,  which  had  been  held  in  the  spring  of 
1903  and  again  the  next  year.  Forty-two  home  missionary 
pastors  in  Massachusetts  and  other  parts  of  New  England 
listened  to  lectures  from  the  Faculty  and  joined  in  discussing 

Hl86^ 


the  subjects  presented,  and  enjoyed  the  fellowship  of  the  ten 
days'  session.  For  recreation  they  walked  about  the  town 
and  country  and  took  trolley  rides  in  the  vicinity.  They  en- 
joyed the  baseball  games  of  the  Academy  students  on  the 
new  athletic  field  and  admired  the  new  gymnasium,  used  by 
both  Academy  and  Seminary  students.  They  strolled  through 
the  Museum  and  looked  over  the  most  recent  displays.  In  the 
evenings  they  listened  to  addresses  on  social  and  practical 
matters,  sang  with  Mr.  Burdett  and  prayed  with  Dr.  Emrich. 
Then  they  went  home  to  put  into  practice  the  new  ideas  which 
had  been  given  to  them. 

The  question  that  was  uppermost  in  the  minds  of  the  alumni 
and  friends  of  the  Seminary  as  the  Commencement  of  1906 
approached  was  the  future  of  the  school.  Since  the  new  cen- 
tury opened  the  conviction  had  been  growing  that  something 
more  was  necessary  than  to  hope  for  the  rejuvenation  of  the 
old  school.  The  controversy  of  twenty  years  earlier  had  weak- 
ened the  Seminary  seriously.  The  new  temper  of  the  age 
which  was  finding  in  life  rather  than  in  theology  the  best  ex- 
pression of  religion,  was  impatient  with  outworn  creeds  and 
doubtful  of  the  value  of  institutions  that  were  based  on  such 
creeds.  Particularly  were  college  men  shy  about  connecting 
themselves  with  a  school  that  had  a  reputation  for  theological 
difficulties  and  still  required  its  Faculty  to  give  lip  service  to 
ancient  symbols.  Recovery  from  the  theological  depression 
had  been  discouragingly  slow.  It  began  to  seem  as  if  the 
school  might  not  live  much  longer  unless  something  radical 
was  attempted. 

The  alumni  were  divided  in  their  opinions  as  to  what  should 
be  done.  The  more  conservatively  minded  thought  that  new 
life  might  be  injected  into  the  old  school  with  new  men  on  the 
Faculty,  that  more  students  might  be  secured  now  that  the 
buildings  had  been  modernized,  and  that  more  money  would 
make  possible  greater  expansion.  They  saw  the  value  of  the 
quiet  surroundings  of  the  Seminary  for  the  studious,  and 
believed  that  with  improving  means  of  communication  the 
school  was  near  enough  to  the  urban  centers.  It  was  sug- 
gested that  perhaps  the  Seminary  might  widen  the  scope  of 


its  helpfulness  by  doing  more  for  foreigners  in  Massachusetts. 
Four  years  before  a  meeting  of  alumni  in  Boston  had  voted 
unanimously  that  the  Seminary  should  be  kept  in  Andover, 
had  expressed  confidence  in  the  Faculty,  had  pledged  their 
efiforts  to  secure  money  and  good  will  for  the  institution,  and 
had  appointed  a  committee  to  present  their  resolutions  to 
the  Trustees. 

The  Trustees  were  alive  to  the  situation.  They  saw  that 
Andover  had  suffered  in  competition  with  seminaries  that  had 
their  location  in  a  city  or  had  university  connections.  They 
knew  the  pull  of  urban  life  for  modern  youth.  In  spite  of 
the  unfriendly  relations  of  long  ago  between  Andover  and 
Harvard,  the  authorities  had  been  in  consultation  with  the 
University  looking  towards  a  possible  affiliation.  They 
recognized  the  changes  that  had  taken  place  in  Congregational 
thought,  and  they  had  no  fear  that  the  liberal  atmosphere  of 
the  Harvard  Divinity  School  would  weaken  the  confidence 
of  Andover  men  in  their  evangelical  faith.  President  Eliot 
and  the  Harvard  Corporation  met  the  Andover  Trustees 
halfway,  and  prepared  a  plan  of  agreement  with  which  the 
Trustees  as  a  whole  were  in  accord.  The  Trustees  passed  a 
vote  to  the  effect  that  "the  period  has  arrived  when  the  pros- 
perity of  the  Theological  Seminary  will  be  promoted  by  its 
removal  from  Andover  if  satisfactory  arrangements  can  be 
made  for  its  establishment  elsewhere."  A  special  committee 
appointed  to  present  a  plan  for  removal  reported,  however, 
that  no  feasible  plan  appeared.  The  attitude  of  the  Alumni 
was  known  to  be  unfriendly. 

Now  in  1906  the  matter  of  the  removal  came  to  the  front 
again.  In  April  the  Trustees  had  voted  unanimously  that  the 
time  had  come  when  it  was  best  to  make  the  affiliation  with 
Harvard,  as  soon  as  the  legality  of  the  action  could  be  deter- 
mined and  the  necessary  arrangements  could  be  made.  It  was 
important  that  the  Andover  professors  should  be  related 
officially  to  the  Faculty  of  the  Harvard  Divinity  School,  and 
that  a  new  building  should  be  erected.  The  Alumni  Associa- 
tion of  Andover  appointed  a  committee  of  conference  to  obtain 
the  opinions  of  the  graduates  of  the  school.   Commencement 

ussy 


passed  before  any  adjustment  was  made,  but  the  negotiations 
continued.  It  had  been  felt  for  some  time  in  the  Seminary 
that  a  board  of  trustees  which  should  be  separate  and  different 
from  the  governing  body  of  the  Academy  was  very  desirable, 
especially  if  the  Seminary  was  to  be  removed  from  the  vicinity 
of  the  Academy.  The  permission  of  the  Massachusetts  Legis- 
lature was  necessary,  and  pending  such  permission  the  nego- 
tiators marked  time. 

In  1907  the  Trustees  petitioned  the  Legislature  for  an  act 
constituting  the  persons  who  were  then  members  of  the  cor- 
poration of  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  a  separate  cor- 
poration under  the  name  of  the  Trustees  of  Andover  Theo- 
logical Seminary,  with  authority  to  receive  the  property 
theretofore  held  by  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  for  the 
benefit  of  the  Theological  Institution.  In  April,  1907,  the 
Legislature  accordingly  incorporated  the  persons  then  consti- 
tuting the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  as  the  Trustees  of 
Andover  Theological  Seminary,  to  be  governed  by  all  the 
provisions  and  regulations  as  to  organization,  membership, 
etc.,  by  which  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  were  gov- 
erned, and  to  hold  all  the  property  then  held  by  the  Academy 
Trustees  for  the  benefit  of  the  Seminary  ** subject  to  all  trusts 
and  conditions  upon  which  the  property  had  been  held  by  the 
Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy."  Upon  the  establishment  of 
the  new  corporation  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  trans- 
ferred to  it  the  land  and  buildings  occupied  by  the  Seminary, 
together  with  all  invested  funds  held  for  the  benefit  of  the 
Seminary.  Most  of  those  who  were  trustees  of  Phillips 
Academy  when  the  act  of  1907  was  passed  and  who  under 
the  act  became  the  first  trustees  of  Andover  Theological 
Seminary  resigned  and  their  places  were  taken  by  men  who 
were  primarily  interested  in  the  Seminary,  thus  recognizing 
the  fact  that  the  Academy  and  the  Seminary  had  grown  apart 
and  that  one  governing  body  was  no  longer  suitable. 

Meantime  the  conference  committee  reported  its  findings 
regarding  the  sentiments  and  opinions  of  the  Andover  x\lumni. 
It  was  clear  that  there  was  a  general  agreement  that  some- 
thing should  be  done  about  the  Seminary.    The  decline  in 


attendance  had  been  continuous  since  the  Spanish-American 
War.  There  was  now  about  an  equal  number  of  professors 
and  students.  Loyal  as  the  alumni  were  and  grateful  for  what 
the  school  had  done  for  them,  they  felt  that  something  was 
wrong,  and  they  expressed  it  in  various  vigorous  phrases.  But 
they  did  not  want  the  Seminary  to  die,  and  they  were  fertile 
in  suggestions. 

The  general  sentiment  was  against  removal.  Nearly  half  of 
the  three  hundred  and  fifty  or  more  who  had  voted  their 
preference  believed  it  best  that  the  Seminary  should  remain 
on  Andover  Hill.  They  felt  that  old  associations  and  the 
traditions  of  a  hundred  years  were  too  precious  to  be  sacri- 
ficed. They  believed  that  the  institution  was  obliged  to  con- 
sider the  wishes  of  the  Congregational  churches,  and  that 
the  funds  ought  not  to  be  used  in  a  way  that  would  be  contrary 
to  the  wishes  of  the  founders.  About  one-third  of  the  alumni 
favored  the  removal  to  Cambridge,  but  the  majority  while 
recognizing  the  catholic  spirit  in  which  the  affairs  of  the 
University  were  administered  and  the  gains  to  both  Andover 
and  the  Harvard  Divinity  School  by  a  union  of  forces,  felt 
that  it  would  be  a  mistake.  It  seemed  doubtful  if  the  critical, 
philosophical  spirit  would  contribute  to  the  making  of  pastors 
and  missionaries,  yet  that  had  been  the  ruling  purpose  of  the 
Seminary,  They  feared  the  possibility  of  litigation  over  the  re- 
moval. They  felt  that  the  small  number  of  students  at  the 
Harvard  Divinity  School  over  a  period  of  twenty-five  years 
did  not  give  much  encouragement  for  an  increase  in  attend- 
ance near  the  University.  The  decline  of  interest  of  students 
in  the  colleges  regarding  the  ministry  as  a  profession  was 
by  no  means  limited  to  the  Andover  constituency.  One  man 
said :  '*An  empty  seminary  is  as  well  ofif  at  Andover  as  at 
Cambridge."  There  were  not  a  few  who  remembered  that  until 
about  1880  the  old  suspicion  of  Harvard  was  so  strong  that 
few  Congregational  students  for  the  ministry  were  enrolled 
there.  After  the  Advanced  Class  was  abolished  at  Andover 
in  1894  it  seemed  more  likely  that  the  opportunities  for  ad- 
vanced study  at  Harvard  would  make  their  appeal,  but  even 
then  the  response  was  small.   Andover  alumni  doubted,  there- 


fore,  whether  any  particular  advantage  would  come  from  the 
Harvard  connection. 

Minority  proposals  favored  removal  to  Boston,  where  the 
school  might  become  a  training  center  for  ministers  to  the 
foreign  population ;  to  Worcester,  Springfield,  or  Northfield, 
in  Massachusetts ;  to  a  union  with  Amherst  or  Williams  or 
Boston  University,  or  with  Hartford  or  Chicago  Seminaries. 
Some  thought  it  would  be  best  if  the  Seminary  would  devote 
its  attention  to  training  missionaries  for  foreign  service. 
Altogether  there  was  a  striking  lack  of  unity.  The  *' confer- 
ence committee"  itself  divided  three  to  two,  the  majority 
favoring  the  Andover  location,  the  minority  sympathetic  with 
the  Harvard  affiliation.  All  agreed  that  the  school  must 
broaden  its  ministry,  and  if  possible  do  more  for  the  training 
of  leaders  for  New  Americans ;  the  plan  for  removal  sug- 
gested such  work  for  the  city  of  Cambridge. 

It  was  thought  that  the  adverse  report  of  the  body  of  the 
alumni  might  check  the  proceedings  of  the  Trustees,  but  they 
saw  advantages  in  the  plan  which  offset  the  objections  that 
were  made.  It  was  expected  that  the  Seminary  would  have 
increased  facilities,  that  the  Faculty  would  be  given  equal 
standing  with  the  Faculty  of  the  Harvard  Divinity  School, 
and  that  Andover  would  retain  its  full  independence.  It 
would  be  possible  to  have  a  plant  that  would  house  the  library 
adequately  and  that  would  be  modern  in  every  way.  Most 
important  of  all  was  the  opportunity  to  acquaint  the  students 
with  the  values  in  psychology,  sociology,  and  ethics,  and  other 
sciences  of  recent  development,  which  could  not  be  provided 
at  Andover  with  the  limited  resources  of  the  Seminary.  The 
social  passion,  which  had  been  felt  at  Andover  and  had  led  to 
the  foundation  of  Andover  House  as  a  social  settlement  in 
Boston,  could  be  fostered  and  guided  in  the  new  environment. 
The  Trustees  recognized  in  Cambridge  the  historic  shrine 
of  education  in  America.  The  University  enjoyed  freedom  of 
thought  and  discussion.  It  could  furnish  the  highest  type  of 
intellectual  culture  along  with  the  theological  discipHne.  And 
that  was  a  Congregational  tradition. 

There  were  of  course  difficulties  to  be  surmounted.  It  would 

imy 


cost  more  to  buy  land  near  the  University  and  to  construct 
such  a  building  as  would  house  all  the  equipment  of  the 
Seminary.  The  sale  of  the  old  buildings  at  Andover  to  the 
Academy  would  not  pay  the  expense.  The  salaries  of  pro- 
fessors must  be  raised  to  the  minimum  paid  to  Harvard 
professors,  if  their  standing  were  not  to  suffer.  Harvard 
students  paid  tuition  and  Andover  students  must  be  adjusted 
to  that  situation  without  transgressing  the  injunction  against 
the  charging  of  tuition  laid  upon  the  Trustees  by  some  of 
the  donors.  Finally  there  was  the  question  arising  from  the 
provision  in  the  Constitution  of  Phillips  Academy  to  the 
effect  that  the  Academy — and  so  the  Seminary  as  originally 
a  department  of  the  Academy — should  never  be  removed 
from  the  South  Parish  in  the  Town  of  Andover  ''unless  the 
good  of  mankind  shall  manifestly  require  it."  It  was  a  de- 
batable question  whether  the  good  of  mankind  required  an 
affiliation  with  the  divinity  school  of  a  University  which  had 
alienated  the  Congregationalists  of  Massachusetts  a  hundred 
years  before.   It  was  a  delicate  situation. 

Before  the  hundredth  anniversary  arrived  in  1908  the 
Trustees  adopted  definitely  the  act  of  affiliation.  The  Presi- 
dent and  Fellows  of  Harvard  officially  approved  and  the 
Overseers  ratified  the  action.  The  Trustees  of  Andover  then 
voted  finally  for  the  removal  on  the  twelfth  of  March,  1908. 
The  reasons  which  they  gave  for  their  action  were  the  falling 
off  in  attendance,  amounting  to  practical  desertion,  the  con- 
sequent unproductive  use  of  the  funds,  the  narrow  field  of  use- 
fulness offered  to  the  professors,  the  rural  location  at  a  time 
when  students  needed  city  connections,  and  the  lack  of  re- 
sources for  the  expansion  of  the  curriculum.  Under  the  Act 
of  Incorporation  the  Trustees  had  no  power  to  remove  the 
Seminary  to  a  place  outside  of  Massachusetts,  so  that  various 
proposals  for  removal  to  places  in  other  states  were  imprac- 
ticable. Cambridge  had  the  advantage  of  being  near  Boston 
and  the  center  of  Congregationalism,  and  it  was  in  the  same 
geographical  area  as  Andover.  The  affiliation  with  Harvard 
would  not  require  change  in  charter,  constitution,  or  organiza- 
tion of  the  Seminary.   More  courses  of  study  would  be  avail- 


able.  Andover  courses  were  to  be  accepted  for  Harvard 
degrees,  so  that  the  Seminary  would  have  equal  standing.  It 
was  believed  that  the  presence  of  Andover  Seminary  would 
be  of  religious  benefit  to  Harvard,  and  that  the  relation  with 
Harvard  would  dignify  the  calling  of  the  ministry  in  the  eyes 
of  educated  young  men.  The  Harvard  arrangement  could  be 
terminated  within  two  years  if  desired. 

Andover  people,  as  was  natural,  deeply  regretted  the  deci- 
sion. The  secular  press  was  generally  favorable,  but  certain  of 
the  religious  papers  condemned  it  as  a  betrayal  of  the  ancient 
trust  to  make  an  alliance  with  the  University.  The  Toledo 
Blade  in  announcing  the  affiliation  said :  "Andover  will  be- 
come 'afflicted'  with  the  Harvard  Divinity  School." 

The  Centennial  anniversary  was  saddened  by  the  threat- 
ened change.  On  Sunday  morning  the  Seminary  Church 
observed  its  last  communion  service  in  connection  with  the 
regular  forenoon  worship.  At  four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon 
the  baccalaureate  sermon  was  preached  to  the  senior  class. 
Monday  evening  brought  the  ninety-seventh  anniversary  of 
the  Society  of  Inquiry,  the  only  one  of  the  old  student  organ- 
izations that  remained.  ^Ir.  Edward  C.  Carter,  Y.  AI.  C.  A. 
secretary  from  India,  spoke  to  the  assembled  company  on  the 
work  of  the  Association  in  the  Far  East.  The  alumni  as- 
sembled for  class  reunions  at  noon,  conscious  that  this  was  the 
last  time  that  they  would  return  to  Andover  Hill  to  walk 
again  the  old  paths  and  exchange  memories  of  Seminary 
experiences.  At  three  o'clock  Centennial  addresses  were  given 
in  honor  of  the  alumni  of  the  hundred  years.  Dr.  Franklin 
Carter,  formerly  president  of  Williams  College,  recounted 
Andover's  service  to  education.  Reverend  George  H.  Gutter- 
son  called  to  mind  Andover's  contributions  to  home  missions 
in  America,  and  Dr.  DeWitt  S.  Clark  summarized  the  mem- 
orable work  of  Andover's  sons  in  the  foreign  mission  field. 
The  alumni  and  friends  enjoyed  a  reception  and  supper  in 
Bartlet  Chapel,  and  in  the  evening  Professor  Platner  gave 
the  Southworth  lecture  on  the  "History  of  Andover  Semi- 
nary, a  Centennial  Retrospect."  If  the  Seminary  had  closed 
its  doors  at  the  end  of  its  centenary,  its  future  would  stand 


secure  in  the  achievements  of  a  century.  For  a  hundred  years 
the  Trustees  had  guided  the  fortunes  of  the  school  according 
to  the  best  wisdom  that  they  possessed.  The  Faculty  had  in- 
terpreted religious  truth,  as  they  had  vowed  to  do,  according 
to  the  best  light  that  God  should  give.  Class  after  class  of 
students  had  come  to  drink  of  the  living  water  of  the  Gospel, 
and  had  gone  out  to  carry  that  Gospel  to  thirsty  souls  in  all 
parts  of  the  world.  Andover's  influence  as  a  religious  force 
would  not  cease  as  long  as  Christianity  survived.  But  the 
Seminary  was  neither  dead  nor  dying. 

President  Day  presided  at  the  Wednesday  celebration  of 
the  whole  Seminary.  The  principal  address  of  the  week  was 
the  oration  by  President  George  Harris  of  Amherst.  He 
recalled  the  salient  features  in  the  history  of  the  Seminary 
during  the  century,  spoke  appreciatively  of  the  men  who  had 
given  the  wealth  of  their  learning  and  Christian  sympathy 
from  the  chairs  of  instruction,  and  interpreted  the  changing 
thought  of  changing  times.  Greetings  were  brought  with 
congratulations  from  representatives  of  many  educational 
institutions.  Particularly  appropriate  was  it  that  Professor 
Benjamin  W.  Bacon  should  speak  for  Yale,  for  his  grand- 
father had  made  the  historical  address  fifty  years  before,  and 
that  Professor  William  Adams  Brown  should  represent  Union 
Seminary,  because  three  generations  of  his  ancestors  had 
studied  at  Andover.  Professor  Merriam  of  Hartford  de- 
clared:  ''Old  Andover  challenges  New  Andover  to  loftiest 
achievement  if  it  would  match  the  past."  The  venerable  Dr. 
Alexander  Mackenzie  commended  the  ancient  institution  to 
God  in  prayer.  Music  was  provided  by  a  chorus  composed  of 
Seminary,  Phillips  Academy,  and  Abbot  Academy  students. 
It  seemed  as  if  the  thoughts  and  interests  of  the  Congre- 
gationalists  of  New  England  converged  on  this  mother  of 
seminaries. 

Good  cheer  came  with  the  dinner  in  the  Borden  Gymnasium, 
to  which  ladies  were  invited  for  the  first  time  in  the  history 
of  the  school.  Andover  alumni  could  not  get  together  in  the 
Centennial  year  without  making  the  occasion  one  of  good 
cheer.    "If  there  is  a  profession  given  to  extreme  sociability 

H  194  f 


in  its  interviews  it  is  the  ministry,"  wrote  Sarah  Stuart 
Robbins.  "After  the  saying  of  grace,  always  solemn  with  the 
sudden  hush  of  voices  and  the  cessation  of  the  click  of  china, 
a  more  hearty  and  cordial  abandon  could  not  be  found  any- 
where among  any  class  of  people  than  used  for  an  hour  to 
fill  the  various  rooms."  Dr.  Harris,  presiding  at  the  Centen- 
nial dinner,  spoke  in  humorous  vein,  saying:  "I  hope  there 
will  be  a  chapter  written  on  the  one  hundred  dinners  which 
have  been  enjoyed  at  the  anniversaries  of  the  Seminary." 

With  Thursday  came  the  exercises  of  the  graduating  class 
in  the  Seminary  Chapel  with  an  address  by  Professor  Arnold 
and  the  conferring  of  degrees.  Once  more  a  class  went  forth 
to  minister  by  the  highways  and  the  byways,  perhaps  to  add 
to  the  honor  list  of  twenty-three  college  presidents,  thirty 
college  professors,  and  eighteen  seminary  professors,  who 
had  graduated  since  the  Semi-centennial.  The  Centennial 
Class — that  would  be  its  distinction.  Would  there  be  a  bi- 
centennial to  celebrate  a  hundred  years  hence? 

Andover  Seminary  opened  its  second  century  at  Cambridge 
in  the  autumn  of  1908.  The  Faculty  was  short-handed  because 
President  Day  had  retired  after  futile  efforts  to  stem  the 
decline  of  the  school.  One  or  two  of  the  Faculty  had  moved 
from  Andover,  but  others  continued  to  reside  there  and  com- 
mute. Professor  Platner  acted  temporarily  as  chairman  of 
the  Faculty  with  the  title  of  "dean."  Lecturers  were  ap- 
pointed for  the  year  until  new  professors  should  be  elected. 
Temporarily  the  students  shared  the  lecture  rooms  and  dor- 
mitories of  the  Harvard  Divinity  School.  The  Harvard  wel- 
come was  cordial,  and  the  affiliation  was  marked  appropri- 
ately by  public  recognition.  Not  as  strangers  or  even  as  guests 
were  they  treated,  but  as  one  body  working  together  for  a 
single  end.  Andover  professors  were  given  the  freedom  of 
the  University,  and  at  the  opening  service  of  the  Divinity 
year  an  Andover  professor  was  invited  to  make  the  address. 
Andover  reciprocated  the  Harvard  courtesies.  In  the  Andover 
catalogue  Harvard  courses  were  listed  as  well  as  those  of  the 
Andover  Faculty.  The  two  schools  together  had  only  twenty- 
four  students.   Andover  was  making  the  new  start  with  two 

i\9sy 


graduate  students,  one  middler,  one  junior,  and  one  special, 
but  she  was  planning  in  hope  of  better  days. 

In  the  course  of  the  year  the  vacancies  in  the  Faculty  were 
filled.  Reverend  Albert  Parker  Fitch,  the  pastor  of  the  Blount 
Vernon  Congregational  Church  in  Boston,  was  chosen  as 
Bartlet  Professor  of  Sacred  Rhetoric  and  President  of  the 
Faculty,  Reverend  Daniel  Evans,  who  was  pastor  at  North 
Cambridge,  was  elected  x\bbot  Professor  of  Christian  The- 
ology, to  succeed  Professor  Hincks,  who  had  filled  that  posi- 
tion as  well  as  the  chair  of  biblical  theolog)'  since  the  resig- 
nation of  Professor  Harris.  Professor  Fitch  had  graduated 
with  high  honors  from  Harvard  and  Union  Theological 
Seminary ;  he  was  full  of  tnergy  as  well  as  ability ;  and  he 
tried  hard  to  strengthen  the  Seminary.  He  believed  that  there 
was  a  great  opportunity  to  build  up  in  Cambridge  a  school 
which  should  serve  the  cause  of  spiritual  freedom  and  the 
development  of  the  free  churches.  He  declared  that  his  pri- 
mary interest  was  that  the  students  should  become  deeply 
religious  men.  Professor  Evans  in  his  inaugural  referred  to 
a  new  idealism  in  the  field  of  science  and  believed  that  the 
currents  of  thought,  converging  on  Cambridge,  promised  a 
new  day  for  religion.  In  commenting  on  the  appointments 
the  Boston  Transcript  remarked  that  the  new  professors  were 
*'not  broken  down  old  men  in  search  of  a  comfortable  haven 
where  they  can  beach  their  dismantled  ministerial  crafts  and 
rest  in  peace  for  the  remainder  of  their  days."  Both  were  men 
of  high  standing  in  their  profession  and  well-known  in  Greater 
Boston.  President  Fitch  was  sent  to  Geneva  to  represent  the 
Seminary  at  the  observance  of  the  four  hundredth  anni- 
versary of  Calvin's  birth.  A  general  catalogue  containing 
complete  alumni  records  for  the  century  was  published,  edited 
by  Reverend  C.  C.  Carpenter. 

The  eight  years  of  President  Fitch's  administration  were 
marked  by  a  growth  in  student  attendance  and  by  plans  of 
expansion.  The  Seminary  entered  upon  its  second  year  in 
Cambridge  with  twelve  students ;  in  two  years  the  number 
doubled,  and  the  next  year  thirty-four  were  enrolled.  There 
was  a  considerable  sprinkling  of  men  from  the  Near  and  the 

-{196^ 


Far  East.  The  seminaries  were  considering  the  question  of 
making  Hebrew  an  elective  study  and  the  Andover  Faculty 
discussed  it,  finally  reaching  the  conclusion  that  the  newer 
tendency  was  inevitable  with  the  enlarged  scope  of  the  theo- 
logical curriculum.  It  was  ruled  that  to  qualify  for  graduation 
a  student  must  have  studied  the  History  of  Israel,  Introduc- 
tion to  the  Old  and  New  Testaments,  the  Theology  of  the 
New  Testament,  Outlines  of  Church  History,  Systematic 
Theology,  the  Office  of  the  Ministry,  and  the  Art  of  Preaching. 

The  completion  of  Andover  Hall  and  its  dedication  in  191 1 
provided  the  physical  equipment  needed  for  the  school.  Archi- 
tecturally beautiful  and  dignified  in  appearance,  with  ample 
quarters  for  the  joint  Andover  Harvard  library,  and  with 
commodious  classrooms,  chapel,  and  dormitory  accommoda- 
tions, the  building  seemed  well  worth  the  $300,0x30  that 
it  cost.  It  was  hoped  that  funds  might  be  secured  to 
endow  two  new  chairs  of  instruction,  one  in  the  history 
of  religion  and  missions,  the  other  in  practical  theology, 
including  religious  education.  Affiliation  was  established 
with  the  Episcopal  Theological  School  of  Cambridge,  which 
added  the  facilities  of  that  school  by  a  reciprocal  arrange- 
ment similar  to  that  with  Harvard.  As  a  gesture  of  good 
will  this  was  matched  by  a  telegram  of  congratulations  to 
the  new  Andover  from  a  group  of  thirty  alumni  meeting 
with  the  National  Council  in  Kansas  City. 

The  Society  of  Inquiry  reached  its  one  hundredth  anniver- 
sary, maintaining  its  organization  in  the  new  environment. 
John  R.  Mott  was  Hyde  lecturer,  speaking  on  ''Forces  To  Be 
Used  in  the  World's  Evangelization."  Professor  Platner  was 
commissioned  to  visit  the  mission  stations  on  a  projected 
vacation  tour,  carrying  the  greetings  of  the  Seminary.  The 
Society  of  Inquiry,  realizing  that  missionary  effort  in  all  parts 
of  the  world  was  one  enterprise,  interested  itself  in  the  home 
missionary  problem  of  New  England,  and  in  connection  with 
a  meeting  of  the  Easter  Theological  School  sent  out  a  com- 
munication to  all  its  former  members  calling  to  prayer  for 
the  mission  to  immigrants  in  the  cities  and  for  the  humble 
rural  parishes  of  the  hill  country. 


President  Fitch  resigned  his  position  in  19 17.  His  coming 
had  infused  new  Hfe  into  the  school,  had  attracted  students, 
and  through  his  college  preaching  had  enlarged  the  scope  of 
Andover's  influence.  As  a  Harvard  alumnus  he  was  interested 
in  the  affiliation  of  the  two  schools.  But  the  future  of  theo- 
logical education  at  Cambridge  was  problematical.  The  World 
War  was  a  disturbing  element,  and  applications  from  new 
students  diminished.  With  all  the  advantages  of  the  new 
building,  ample  library  facilities,  and  the  prestige  of  Harvard, 
Andover  did  not  seem  to  move  forward  as  had  been  antici- 
pated. Only  one  student  graduated  in  19 18,  and  the  total 
enrollment  was  reduced  to  thirteen.  The  decade  since  the 
Centennial  had  left  the  number  of  students  at  about  the  same 
point  as  before.   Financial  stringency  was  a  further  handicap. 

Professor  Platner  became  acting  president,  and  Dr. 
Raymond  Calkins  of  Cambridge  was  appointed  in  Fitch's 
place  as  lecturer  on  preaching  for  the  year.  In  19 19  Professor 
Platner  was  elected  the  permanent  head  of  the  Faculty,  being 
given  at  his  request  the  title  of  "dean"  rather  than  that  of 
''president."  Professor  Hincks  completed  thirty-four  years  on 
the  Faculty,  and  retired  from  active  service,  and  Professor 
Ryder  died  suddenly,  so  that  again  the  number  of  the  Faculty 
was  depleted  seriously.  The  Faculty  discussed  the  possibility 
of  a  combination  of  theological  schools  of  Greater  Boston 
during  the  next  year  for  the  sake  of  economy  and  on  account 
of  the  general  depletion  of  numbers,  and  they  gave  general 
approval  to  such  a  plan,  recommending  it  to  the  Trustees. 

The  retirement  of  Professor  Hincks  and  the  death  of  Pro- 
fessor Ryder  added  to  the  difficulties  of  the  Seminary.  Hincks 
was  the  link  with  the  old  order  of  things  at  Andover.  He  had 
been  through  the  controversy  over  the  New  Theology,  had 
taken  part  in  the  publication  of  the  Andover  Revieiv,  and 
had  been  on  trial  for  his  opinions.  Through  thirty-four  years 
of  service  he  had  helped  to  carry  the  administrative  burdens 
as  well  as  his  share  of  the  teaching.  His  colleagues  esteemed 
him  as  "exhibiting  in  happy  combination  the  free  spirit  of  the 
scholar  and  humanist,  and  the  unobtrusive  religious  devotion 
of  the  Christian  minister."    He  did  not  lament  the  removal 


to  Cambridge,  though  his  affection  for  the  old  was  strong,  and 
he  retained  his  Andover  residence  for  some  time. 

Professor  Ryder  died  at  Andover  after  a  brief  illness  in 
the  seventy-sixth  year  of  his  age.  Not  so  conspicuous  because 
he  came  to  Andover  too  late  to  be  involved  in  the  conflict  of 
ideas  of  the  period  of  greatest  disturbance  and  because  of  his 
native  modesty,  he  enjoyed  the  confidence  of  his  colleagues 
and  the  affection  of  the  students  for  almost  thirty  years.  As 
a  teacher  of  the  New  Testament  he  had  to  face  the  problems 
of  biblical  criticism,  and  he  did  it  frankly  and  fearlessly,  but 
with  such  deep  religious  appreciation  of  Scripture  and  with 
such  ample  scholarship  that  he  was  freed  from  the  charge  of 
heresy  which  for  a  time  had  rested  upon  him. 

To  fill  the  vacancies  that  had  come  Reverend  Willard  L. 
Sperry,  minister  of  the  Central  Congregational  Church, 
Boston,  was  invited  to  become  Bartlet  Professor  of  Sacred 
Rhetoric,  and  Professor  Henry  J.  Cadbury  of  Haverford 
College,  a  graduate  of  Andover  in  1909,  was  secured  as  lec- 
turer on  the  New  Testament.  Since  Dr.  Sperry  retained  his 
parish  duties  in  Boston  for  a  time,  he  could  give  only  a  limited 
amount  of  service  to  Andover,  but  his  association  with  the 
school  was  an  element  of  strength  from  the  beginning.  In  the 
fall  of  1920  sixteen  students  were  in  attendance.  Letters  were 
received  from  Australia,  asking  that  arrangements  might  be 
made  for  granting  Andover  degrees  to  students  from  that  part 
of  the  world,  an  evidence  that  the  fame  of  Andover  was  wide 
and  lasting.  The  question  of  admitting  women  to  study  in 
the  school  was  a  subject  of  discussion,  but  no  action  followed. 

Death  again  took  its  toll  of  the  Faculty  in  192 1.  After  pro- 
longed ill  health  Professor  Platner  passed  to  his  reward.  He 
was  still  on  the  sunny  side  of  sixty,  but  as  Brown  professor  of 
ecclesiastical  history,  and  later  as  dean,  he  had  rendered  worthy 
service  to  the  Seminary.  Trained  thoroughly  at  home  and 
abroad,  he  was  equipped  in  scholarship ;  he  was  a  preacher 
much  sought  by  the  churches,  and  more  than  once  was  invited 
to  assume  the  pastorate  of  a  church.  The  Faculty  testified  of 
him  that  he  was  as  the  shadow  of  a  great  rock  in  a  weary  land 
during  twenty  years  of  vicissitudes.   ''The  service  of  his  life 

^199f 


was  greater  than  his  teaching  or  administration;  his  daily 
contact  with  his  students  and  his  colleagues  revealed  the  fine 
qualities  of  his  character.  He  was  gentle  in  his  manner,  un- 
selfish in  his  relation  to  others,  sympathetic  with  them  in  their 
difficulties,  interested  in  their  pursuits,  and  always  at  their 
service.  He  lived  amongst  us  as  a  scholar,  a  gentleman,  and 
a  Christian." 

It  was  then  that  Dr.  Sperry  was  brought  into  full  relation 
with  the  educational  work  in  Cambridge.  He  was  made  presi- 
dent of  the  Faculty  of  Andover  Theological  Seminary,  and 
the  Harvard  Corporation  announced  his  election  as  ''  Professor 
of  Homiletics  and  Dean  of  the  Theological  School  in  Harvard 
University."  The  affiliation  between  the  two  institutions  had 
worked  sufficiently  well  to  justify  a  closer  relationship.  The 
demands  of  the  Government  for  the  use  of  Divinity  Hall  dur- 
ing the  World  War  had  hastened  this  development.  Under  a 
"Plan  of  Closer  Affiliation"  adopted  by  the  Trustees  and  by 
the  President  and  Fellows  of  Harvard  College  respectively, 
in  May,  1922,  it  was  provided  that  the  two  corporations  should 
join  to  form  a  non-denominational  theological  school  with 
single  faculty,  roll  of  students,  administration  and  catalogue, 
the  name  of  the  school  to  be  "The  Theological  School  in  Har- 
vard University."  Degrees  were  to  be  conferred  by  Harvard 
upon  students  of  the  school  on  recommendation  of  the  Faculty, 
but  the  Trustees  reserved  the  right  in  their  discretion  to  grant 
Andover  degrees  to  Andover  students,  this  term  including 
the  holders  of  Andover  scholarships  and  fellowships  and  any 
other  persons  qualified  and  desiring  to  be  such.  The  Andover 
professors — Evans,  Arnold,  and  Cadbury  —  were  adopted 
by  the  University.  But  scarcely  had  the  arrangement  been 
made  before  it  was  disrupted  by  legal  proceedings. 

The  removal  to  Cambridge  had  not  escaped  legal  compli- 
cations in  1908.  Certain  alumni  unfriendly  to  the  change 
preferred  objections  before  the  Visitors,  but  the  Visitors  de- 
clined to  hold  that  the  removal  was  contrary  to  the  intention 
of  the  Founders.  Immediately  after  the  Plan  of  Closer  Affilia- 
tion was  adopted,  however,  the  Visitors,  whose  personnel 
had  meanwhile  changed,  passed  a  resolution  declaring  the 

izooy 


plan  void.  This  action  raised  many  legal  questions  which 
were  the  subject  of  protracted  proceedings  in  the  Supreme 
Judicial  Court  of  Massachusetts.  Hearings  were  held  be- 
fore Fred  T.  Field,  Esquire,  (now  a  Justice  of  that  Court) 
as  master.  His  report  was  to  the  effect  that  in  view  of 
the  limited  income  and  other  circumstances  it  was  imprac- 
ticable for  Andover  to  be  maintained  as  an  unaffiliated  insti- 
tution. He  further  found  that  for  many  years  prior  to  the  be- 
ginning of  the  proceedings  the  Visitors,  in  passing  upon  the 
suitability  of  men  elected  by  the  Trustees  to  professorships, 
had  treated  the  various  creedal  requirements  as  satisfied  if  the 
professor-elect  was  found  to  stand  with  respect  to  his  doctrinal 
views  in  the  historical  succession  of  New  England  Trinitarian 
Congregationalism  and  had  deemed  immaterial  an  inability 
to  accept  particular  propositions  in  the  Creed  or  in  the  Cate- 
chism. With  respect  to  the  Plan  of  Closer  Affiliation  the 
master's  finding  was  as  follows : 

''I  find  that,  apart  from  doctrinal  or  creedal  requirements,  the 
Plan  of  Closer  Affiliation  fulfills,  as  nearly  as  is  possible  under 
the  existing  conditions,  the  purposes  for  which  Andover  Seminary 
was  founded.  I  further  find  that  if  the  purposes  for  which  the 
Seminary  was  founded,  so  far  as  such  purposes  involve  doctrinal 
or  creedal  requirements,  are  fulfilled  if  instruction  in  the  field  of 
theological  studies  in  which  doctrinal  questions  are  involved  is  in 
the  historical  succession  of  New  England  Trinitarian  Congrega- 
tionalism, the  Plan  of  Closer  Affiliation  fulfills  with  respect  to 
Andover  students  as  nearly  as  possible  under  existing  conditions 
the  purposes  for  which  Andover  Seminary  was  founded." 

The  Court,  however,  held  that  the  language  of  the  original 
Constitution,  Associate  Statutes,  and  other  fundamental  doc- 
uments was  so  unequivocal  that  no  relaxed  interpretation 
was  permissible,  even  though,  as  the  master  found,  it  had  be- 
come impossible  for  any  theological  scholar  of  standing  to 
subscribe  to  the  Creed  if  literally  interpreted.  While  the  actual 
decision  (which  was  rendered  in  September,  1925)  did  not  go 
further  than  to  set  aside  the  Plan  of  Closer  Affiliation,  it  was 
apparent  that  it  was  useless,  either  with  or  without  any  affilia- 
tion, to  attempt  to  keep  the  Seminary  open,  so  long  as  it  should 

izoiy 


be  subject  to  the  creedal  requirements  as  construed  by  the 
Court. 

Apparently  nothing  remained  for  Andover  Seminary  but 
to  close  its  doors.  For  the  remainder  of  the  academic  year 
1925-1926  the  Seminary  was  conducted  under  the  original 
Plan  of  Affiliation  adopted  in  1908,  which  was  not  directly 
affected  by  the  decision.  By  concurrent  action  of  the  Trustees 
and  of  the  Harvard  Corporation  this  plan  was  then  abrogated. 
The  Faculty  resigned,  and  the  Trustees  voted  that  instruction 
be  suspended. 
/  It  was  in  a  chastened  frame  of  mind  that  friends  and  alumni 
contemplated  the  future.  Must  the  school  that  had  served  so 
well  the  denomination  and  the  Christian  world  die  of  strangu- 
lation? Was  the  noble  purpose  of  the  founders  to  educate  a 
Congregational  ministry  to  be  defeated  by  the  dead  hand  of 
outgrown  dogma?  The  Court  had  suggested  a  possible 
method  of  liberation.  By  a  decree  in  accordance  with  the 
liberal  principle  of  cy  pres  the  Court  might  remove  the  ancient 
restriction  and  make  it  possible  for  the  old  school  to  breathe 
again.  The  Trustees  immediately  entered  upon  a  serious  con- 
sideration of  the  feasibility  of  obtaining  relief  by  this  means. 
Many  important  questions,  both  of  law  and  of  policy,  had  to 
be  taken  into  account  before  the  Trustees  felt  justified  in 
instituting  further  proceedings.  In  November,  1930,  however, 
the  Trustees  filed  in  the  Supreme  Judicial  Court  a  bill  in  equity, 
representing  that  it  was  impossible  under  existing  conditions 
to  execute  in  all  respects  the  designs  of  the  founders  as  in- 
terpreted in  the  previous  decision,  and  that  attempted  con- 
formity to  the  creedal  requirements  of  the  Constitution 
and  Statutes  as  so  interpreted  would  altogether  defeat  the 
primary  object  of  the  founders  and  subsequent  donors,  i.e., 
the  providing  of  learned,  able  and  devout  ministers  for  the 
Trinitarian  Congregational  churches,  and  would  necessitate 
the  permanent  discontinuance  of  the  Seminary.  The  bill 
therefore  asked  the  Court  to  adjudge  that  persons  whose  theo- 
logical views  were  in  conformity  with  those  obtaining  among 
Trinitarian  Congregationalists  generally  should  thereafter  be 
deemed  qualified  so  far  as  concerned  their  doctrinal  position 

i202} 


for  professorships  in  the  Seminary  and  that  instruction  given 
in  the  Seminary  should  not  thereafter  be  called  in  question 
because  of  inconsistency  with  the  creedal  requirements  of  the 
Constitution  and  Statutes.  The  Board  of  Visitors  (whose 
composition  had  undergone  still  another  change)  filed  an 
answer  in  substance  joining  in  the  request  of  the  Trustees.  On 
April  lo,  193 1,  the  Court  entered  a  decree  reciting  that  it  had 
become  impossible  to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  the  founders 
and  subsequent  benefactors  of  the  Seminary  so  long  as  the 
creedal  requirements  of  the  Constitution  and  Statutes  were 
strictly  enforced,  and  relieving  the  Trustees  and  the  Visitors 
from  the  necessity  of  complying  with  these  requirements 
except  to  the  extent  of  seeing  to  it  that  the  theological  views 
held  by  the  professors  and  by  the  members  of  the  Board  of 
Visitors  are  in  conformity  with  those  obtaining  among  Trini- 
tarian Congregationalists  generally. 

While  the  legal  matters  were  under  advisement,  the  future 
course  of  Andover  Theological  Seminary  was  under  consider- 
ation. The  terms  of  the  charter  required  that  the  Seminary 
should  remain  in  Massachusetts,  a  provision  which  eliminated 
the  possibility  of  going  West  or  South.  The  continual  objec- 
tion to  the  Harvard  affiliation  made  resumption  of  the  ar- 
rangement at  Cambridge  impracticable.  Yet  Andover  lacked 
an  endowment  sufficient  to  continue  instruction  alone,  and 
since  the  old  buildings  at  Andover  had  been  disposed  of  to  the 
Academy  in  1908,  and  Andover  Hall  in  Cambridge  was  not 
available,  the  Seminary  was  in  a  dilemma. 

There  was  one  way  out.  A  cordial  invitation  from  Newton 
Theological  Institution  to  join  forces  in  a  new  affiliation  was 
extended  to  the  homeless  school.  It  was  a  novel  proposition 
to  unite  seminaries  of  different  denominations.  Newton  was 
Baptist  and  Andover  was  Congregational.  But  interdenomi- 
national differences  had  grown  less  acute  since  the  first  pro- 
fessors were  obligated  to  denounce  "heresies  and  errors, 
ancient  and  modern,"  and  there  were  many  likenesses  between 
the  two  seminaries.  Both  were  evangelical  in  temper,  having 
come  into  existence  in  the  same  period  and  under  the  same 
impulse.    Andover  dated   from   1807,   Newton   from    1825. 

i20Zy 


The  first  Newton  professors,  Chase  and  Ripley,  were  An- 
dover  men,  and  they  transplanted  the  ideas  and  methods  of  the 
older  school.  Each  had  a  rich  missionary  heritage.  Each  had 
been  represented  on  the  home  mission  field  and  in  the  halls 
of  educational  institutions.  Both  had  the  same  high  standards 
of  scholarship,  the  same  theological  outlook,  the  same  interest 
in  interpreting  religion  in  terms  of  present  as  well  as  future 
life.  Both  rested  on  faith  in  the  ultimate  spiritual  reality  as 
against  the  secular  spirit  of  the  age.  Together  they  might 
hope  to  become  a  strong  force  in  the  life  of  the  time,  and  to 
show  the  way  towards  the  closer  cooperation  of  two  great  and 
friendly  denominations.  In  January,  1930,  the  Trustees  of 
Newton  extended  a  formal  invitation  to  Andover  to  enter 
into  an  affiliation.  The  Andover  Trustees  thereupon  adopted 
a  resolution  declaring  their  desire  to  accept  the  invitation  as 
soon  as  practicable.  Upon  the  entry  of  the  decree  relaxing 
the  creedal  requirements,  the  Visitors  voted  to  approve  the 
Plan  of  Affiliation  with  Newton.  The  Trustees  thereupon 
voted  to  remove  the  Seminary  from  Cambridge  to  Newton 
to  the  extent  contemplated  by  the  Plan  of  Affiliation  and  to 
accept  the  invitation  of  Newton  to  enter  into  that  plan.  It 
was  further  voted  that  undergraduate  instruction  in  the  Semi- 
nary be  resumed  in  Newton  at  the  beginning  of  the  academic 
year  1931-32. 

The  mutual  agreement  provided  resources  sufficient  for  a 
strengthened  Faculty.  Professor  Evans,  whose  resignation 
from  the  Andover  Faculty  had  been  held  in  abeyance  by  the 
Trustees,  now  withdrew  the  resignation  at  their  request  and 
resumed  his  duties  as  Abbot  Professor  of  Christian  Theology 
in  coordination  with  the  Newton  department.  Reverend 
Dwight  l^radley  became  lecturer  in  pastoral  ]:)rol)]enis  and 
church  worship,  and  Reverend  A.  Philip  Guiles  was  added  to 
the  Faculty  as  the  director  of  clinical  training.  In  1933  P^^" 
lessor  Amos  Niven  Wilder  of  Union  College  was  appointed 
to  the  chair  of  New  Testament  Interpretation. 

Andover  students  found  their  way  to  another  hill  than  the 
old,  but  no  less  consecrated  by  ancient  traditions  and  precious 
memories.    In  the  Newton  buildings  at  Newton  Centre,  An- 


dover  men  studied  side  by  side  with  Newton  men,  and  in  the 
classrooms  the  professors  made  no  distinction  between  them. 
The  old  Society  of  Inquiry  of  Andover  was  revived  and  the 
long  history  of  the  organization  was  recalled.  Andover  alumni 
fraternized  with  Newton  alumni  at  Commencement,  and 
trustees  of  both  schools  sat  together  at  the  Commencement 
dinner.  Friendship  with  Harvard  was  by  no  means  broken. 
Newton  had  relations  of  affiliation  with  Harvard  which 
facilitated  the  special  studies  of  advanced  students  at  Cam- 
bridge, and  Andover  arranged  with  Harvard  to  continue  for 
the  present  the  maintenance  of  the  joint  library  in  Andover 
Hall.  The  short  distance  of  seven  miles  from  Newton  to  Cam- 
bridge made  it  easily  accessible  in  motor  days,  and  the  same 
distance  from  Newton  to  Boston  made  convenient  the  cultural 
advantages  of  that  city  and  opportunities  for  service. 

The  affiliation  of  the  two  schools  was  not  a  merger.  iMind- 
ful  of  Andover's  past  experiences  and  of  the  possibility  of 
readjustments,  the  seminaries  adopted  the  principle  of  fed- 
eration with  freedom  for  either  school  to  abrogate  the  joint 
arrangement,  if  it  should  be  desired.  All  the  procedure  was 
carried  out  in  the  most  cordial  spirit  and  in  anticipation  of 
permanence.  The  instructors  of  the  two  schools  under  the 
Plan  of  Affiliation  hold  regular  meetings  as  one  body  under 
the  name  of  the  **  Faculty  of  the  Andover  Newton  Theological 
School,"  separate  meetings  of  the  faculties  of  the  two  schools 
being  held  as  occasion  may  require.  The  presiding  officer 
at  the  joint  meetings  is  the  President  of  Newton,  who  has 
the  title  of  **  President  of  the  Andover  Newton  Theological 
School."  President  Everett  Carleton  Herrick,  D.D.,  LL.D., 
who  had  been  president  of  Newton  since  1926,  thus  became 
the  first  holder  of  the  new  title.  He  had  added  notably  to  the 
endowment  of  the  Institution  by  tireless  efforts,  and  had 
enriched  the  school  with  new  friends.  The  attendance  was 
increasing  materially,  and  the  students  were  loyal  to  president 
and  seminary  in  spirit  and  conduct.  Dr.  Herrick  made  the 
affiliation  possible  by  his  cordial  spirit  and  patient  wisdom. 
There  was  the  friendliest  feeling  for  the  affiliation  among 
the  Trustees  and  Faculty  of  the  Institution.   To  facilitate  the 

izosy 


working  of  the  joint  arrangement  an  administrative  com- 
mittee of  five  from  each  board  of  trustees  was  appointed. 

The  Trustees  of  Andover  elected  Reverend  Vaughan 
Dabney,  D.D.,  the  minister  of  the  Second  Church  in  Dor- 
chester, as  Bartlet  Professor  of  Sacred  Rhetoric  and  Presi- 
dent of  the  Andover  Faculty.  The  Plan  of  Affiliation  provides 
that  "  The  President  of  the  Andover  Faculty  shall  have  the  title 
'Dean  of  the  Andover  Newton  Theological  School,'"  so  Dr. 
Dabney  became  the  first  holder  of  this  title.  Dr.  Dabney  was 
Kentucky  bred  and  received  his  theological  education  at  Chi- 
cago Theological  Seminary  and  as  graduate  fellow  at  Andover 
in  19 1 2- 14.  He  had  had  pastoral  experience  both  East  and 
West,  and  his  election  was  hailed  as  a  most  suitable  one.  He 
was  inaugurated  on  the  seventh  of  January,  1932,  in  the  First 
Church  of  Newton  amid  the  congratulations  of  friends  of 
both  institutions  and  representatives  from  other  schools  of 
learning.  He  was  inducted  into  office  by  Dr.  Arthur  S.  Pease, 
President  of  Amherst  College,  a  trustee  of  the  Seminary  and 
son  of  a  former  Bartlet  professor  at  Andover,  and  the  pro- 
gram included  addresses  by  Justice  Fred  T.  Field,  president 
of  the  Newton  Trustees,  President  Ernest  N.  Hopkins  of 
Dartmouth,  and  Dr.  Albert  W.  Heaven,  president  of  the 
Colgate-Rochester  Divinity  School.  Music  was  furnished  by 
the  chapel  choir  of  the  Seminary,  led  by  an  Andover  student. 
In  his  inaugural  address  Dr.  Dabney  interpreted  the  alliance 
of  Andover  and  Newton  as  meaning:  first,  the  continuity  of 
ancient  traditions  of  scholarship,  missionary  zeal,  and  spir- 
itual fervor;  second,  cooperation  as  the  hope  of  a  richer 
future ;  and  third,  creative  accomplishment  in  the  field  of  reli- 
gion, so  as  to  feed  hungry  souls  and  better  to  interpret  the 
Master  to  human  society. 

Andover  students  who  came  to  Institution  Hill  at  Newton 
Centre  in  the  fall  of  1932  found  a  busy  student  body  of  one 
hundred  and  fifty  undergraduates,  representing  thirty  differ- 
ent states  of  the  Union  and  twelve  foreign  countries.  Eighty 
Baptist  and  Congregational  churches  were  being  served  by 
students  as  pastors'  assistants.  Deputation  teams  went  to  the 
churches  for  evangelistic  purposes,  and  city  missions  were 


visited  regularly  in  Boston.  The  Seminary  enjoyed  radio 
broadcasting  privileges  for  religious  messages  at  a  neighboring 
station.  Herrick  House,  a  new  dormitory  erected  during  the 
summer,  provided  modern  accommodations  for  married  stu- 
dents, and  Chase  House  supplied  living  quarters  for  women 
who  were  studying  in  the  department  of  religious  education. 
Lectures  on  the  Hyde  Foundation  were  on  the  point  of  resump- 
tion, and  Professor  Hocking  of  Harvard  soon  set  a  new  pace 
with  his  contribution  to  re-thinking  missions.  The  Southworth 
lectures  of  Andover  supplemented  the  Greene,  Duncan,  and 
English  foundations  of  Newton.  And  there  on  the  hilltop  of 
forty  acres  men  and  women  took  time  for  spiritual  retreat 
as  well  as  for  intellectual  and  social  activities. 

With  the  approach  of  Andover's  one  hundred  and  twenty- 
fifth  anniversary  faith  is  strong  that  the  school  of  the  prophets 
formed  long  ago  by  the  alliance  of  two  groups  of  Congrega- 
tionalists  will  find  more  abundant  life  in  federation  with  a 
school  of  similar  tradition,  though  of  another  denomination. 
They  are  loyal  to  the  same  God  and  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ. 
Theirs  is  the  same  evangelical  faith,  the  same  congregational 
polity.  Theirs  are  the  same  educational  ideals,  theirs  the  same 
goal  of  a  social  order  transformed  into  the  Kingdom  of  God. 
The  vision  of  the  world's  need  is  glimpsed  from  Institution 
Hill  in  Newton  as  it  was  from  Andover  Hill.  And  what 
matters  it,  said  Dr.  Dabney  in  his  inaugural,  '*if  the  ark  of 
Andover  has  finally  landed  on  the  Ararat  of  Newton  Hill? 
Progressive  theological  schools  no  longer  wear  sectarian 
labels.  What  a  challenge  is  ours  at  Andover  Newton  to  add 
a  thrilling  chapter  to  the  history  of  the  Christian  Church, 
M  history  too  full  of  wasteful  competition  and  schism.".^ 

On  the  back  of  the  President's  chair  in  the  Convention  hall 
at  Philadelphia  in  1787  was  painted  the  picture  of  a  half- 
submerged  sun.  When  the  Constitution  of  the  new  nation 
had  been  adopted,  Benjamin  Franklin,  turning  to  several  per- 
sons who  stood  near  him,  remarked:  "I  have  often  in  the 
course  of  this  session  looked  at  the  sun  behind  the  President 
without  being  able  to  tell  whether  it  was  rising  or  setting. 
But  now  I  have  the  happiness  to  know  that  it  is  a  rising  and 

i207y 


not  a  setting  sun."  During  the  vicissitudes  of  the  last  quarter 
of  a  century  the  sons  of  Andover  may  have  felt  a  similar 
uncertainty,  but  on  this  one  hundred  and  twenty-fifth  anni- 
versary they  may  feel  confident  that  Andover's  glory  did  not 
vanish  with  the  fading  glow  of  a  sunset  over  the  Shawsheen 
valley,  but  that  the  pioneer  seminary  of  New  England,  with 
its  windows  open  toward  the  east,  greets  a  new  and  greater 
day  from  Newton  Hill. 


-{  208  y 


