DOCUMENT_ID: lovett1
TITLE (as printed): The History of the London Missionary Society, 1795-1895, Volume I
AUTHOR: Richard Lovett
DATE: 1899
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL: https://archive.org/details/historyoflondon01love
EDITION: London: Henry Frowde, 1899. Vol. I ("Origin and Early Work of the Society").
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: Internet Archive OCR (djvu), fetched verbatim via curl, uncorrected.
WORD COUNT (approx): 310830
NOTE: MIXED. Lovett's own narrative is SECONDARY (this is the Society's own commissioned centenary history, written from its minute-books and records). Passages set off in quotation marks and introduced as reproductions of the minute-book, the 1795 "Plan of the Society" (reprinted in full as a numbered constitution, Articles I-VII), and the 9 May 1796 "fundamental principle" minute (reprinted in full, introduced as "thus entered in the minute-book") are treated PRIMARY, being verbatim reproductions of primary institutional records. Page numbers below are the printed page numbers visible in the OCR (running heads), not inserted markers.
OCR QUALITY: Good; spot-checked, low error rate; some ligature/italic artifacts (e.g. "socictv" for "society") in headers only.
=====BEGIN TRANSCRIPTION=====
fi^^'-i . 


fe^ 


A" 


»VT 


'<r'*'.',".i?. 


t  A^.t 


>•■•%  "- 


'.  Iw'.'  ti-^^^  *j? 


k      .'I  .."*■ 


f  wrf"*'  '•%  v^  ^' .' 


m 


Vvt  i    'T 


PHfei^V  '<.,■   ~iV 


6- 


•w^ 


e, 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2010  with  funding  from 

University  of  Toronto 


http://www.archive.org/details/historyoflondon01love 


'^^  *^ 


T.    H  AWE  IS 


(jEorge  Burder 

'Foreijrn  Secretary, 
1803  to  1827,1 


John  Eyre 

(Home  Secretary,  1798  to  1803) 
(^  Foreign  Secretar\',  1800  to  1803) 


r- 


John  Love 
F6rcign  Secretary,  1795  to  1800; 


4:-. 


David  Bogue 


THE  HISTORY 


OF   THE 


LONDON  MISSIONARY  SOCIETY 


1795-1895 


BY 


RICHARD    LOVETT,    M.A. 

AUTHOR    OF 
'JAMES   GILMOUR    OF    MONGOLIA,'    'NORWEGIAN    PICTURES,'    ETC. 


WITH   PORTRAITS  AND  MAPS 


•  r^ 


IN   TWO   VOLUMESi  rr*'%.i     ^   ' 

VOL.  I  I       »2!"j i^-'-rv > ■ //«    i-'-^i 


HENRY   FROWDE 

OXFORD   UNIVERSITY   PRESS   WAREHOUSE 
AMEN    CORNER,  E.G. 

1899 


PRINTED 

FOR   THE    LONDON    MISSIONARY    SOCIETY 

BY    HORACE   HART,    M.A. 

AT   THE    UNIVERSITY    PRESS,    OXFORD 


PREFACE 


The  appearance  of  these  volumes  so  long  after  the 
celebration  of  the  Centenary  of  the  London  Missionary 
Society  demands  a  word  of  explanation.  As  no  complete 
record  of  the  Society's  origin  and  work  was  in  existence, 
the  Directors  decided  some  years  before  1895,  that  what, 
it  is  hoped,  may  by  its  merit  commend  itself  as  the  Standard 
History,  should  be  prepared.  It  was  then  the  wish  of  all 
concerned— and  the  arrangement  would  have  been  ideal — 
that  the  Rev.  Ralph  Wardlaw  Thompson  himself  should 
undertake  the  duty.  He  at  first  entertained  the  idea 
and  began  to  collect  materials  for  such  a  work.  No  one 
regrets  more  keenly  than  the  author  that  Mr.  Thompson 
had  finally,  after  cherishing  the  project  for  a  considerable 
time,  to  give  up  all  hope  of  being  able  to  accomplish  it. 

After  one  or  two  attempts  in  other  directions,  towards 
the  end  of  the  year  1893  the  Directors,  through  their  Home 
Secretary,  the  Rev.  A.  N.  Johnson,  M.A.,  approached  the 
author  to  ascertain  whether  he  could  entertain  the  proposal 
to  prepare  a  full  and  complete  history  of  the  first  century 
of  the  Society's  administration  and  achievements.  The 
writer,  not  altogether  unskilled  in  estimating  literary 
tasks,  thought  he  realized  in  some  degree  the  difficulty, 
the  laboriousness,  and  yet  the  importance  of  the  burden 
which  Mr.  Johnson  sought  to  impose  upon  him.    He  finally 


vi  PREFACE 

consented  to  undertake  it  from  a  sense  of  duty,  and  from 
the  conviction  that  such  a  story  might  be  told  so  as  to 
become,  not  merely  a  record  of  noble  achievement  in  the 
past,  but  also  a  stimulus,  and  a  guide  through  the  some- 
what intricate  problems  of  the  present-day  missionary 
administration. 

The  task   is  now  completed.      How  far  these  volumes 
fall  short  of  what  they  should  be  none   can   more  fully 
realize   than   the   writer.      They   have    taken    nearly   six 
years ;  partly  because  their  preparation  was  an  extra  task, 
added  to  a  not  inconsiderable  daily  burden  of  work  and 
responsibility  :  partly  because  they  have  somewhat  rudely 
shocked  the  author's   belief  in   his  competency  to  judge 
the  time  and  labour  such  an  undertaking  involved.      Had 
he    realized    six   years   ago   that    the   work   would    have 
demanded  half  the  patient  research,  the  weary  plodding 
through   letters,    reports,   books,    and    material    of   many 
kinds,  and  the  prodigal  expenditure  of  time  it  has  required, 
he  would  never  have  dared  to  undertake  it.     But  having 
put   his   hand    to    the    plough    he    has   not    looked    back. 
Friends  of  the  Society  have  from  time  to  time  expressed 
to  him  their  gladness  in  anticipation  of  the  volumes.     If 
their  joy  in  studying  them  is  but  a  tithe  as  keen  as  his 
in  saying  farewell  to   them  he   will  be  amply  repaid  for 
all  his  toil. 

The  author  gratefully  acknowledges  the  interest  the 
Directors  have  taken  in  the  work,  and  the  free  and  un- 
reserved manner  in  which  everything  in  their  possession 
has  been  placed  at  his  disposal.  The  letters,  journals, 
manuscripts,  minute-books,  and  material  of  every  kind  in 
the  Society's  possession  have  been  entrusted  to  him  to 
make  what  use  of  them   he  saw  fit.     And  their  use  was 


PREFACE  vli 

rendered  the  more  pleasant  and  serviceable  by  the  ready 
and  wilhng  co-operation  of  every  official  at  the  Mission 
House  whom  he  has  found  it  needful  to  consult. 

The  aim  steadily  kept  in  view  has  been  to  present  to 
the  reader  an  accurate  and  complete  picture  of  the  origin 
and  the  administration  of  the  Society,  and  of  the  great 
results  which  have  been  achieved  b\'  the  consecrated  men 
and  women  who  have,  on  the  one  hand,  maintained  the 
home  administration,  and  on  the  other  carried  through 
the  complex  toil  which  the  Society  has  undertaken  in  so 
many  of  the  great  mission-fields  of  the  world.  The  author 
has  striven  to  bring  the  reader  to  that  point  of  vantage 
which  he  himself  occupied  only  after  studying  vast  masses 
of  material,  very  little  of  which  survives  in  the  text.  Not 
unfrequently  the  labour  of  a  week  survives  only  in  a  line  : 
and  sometimes  the  reading  and  research  of  a  month  has 
been  compressed  into  a  page.  Nevertheless  he  has  striven 
wherever  possible  to  let  the  workers  speak  for  themselves. 
Consequently  men  may  be  estimated  by  the  letters  the}' 
have  written  ;  the  story  of  noble  deeds  has  been  given, 
where  possible,  in  the  words  of  those  who  lived  them  ; 
the  important  facts  have  been  so  presented  that  it  is  hoped 
the  reader  may  get  at  their  inner  as  well  as  their  outer 
meaning,  and  at  the  secret  of  the  success  or  the  failure 
of  the  work  attempted.  History  possesses  a  charm  as 
a  narrative  of  thrilling  episodes  in  the  past,  as  a  picture 
of  movements  which  have  powerfully  affected  life  and 
thought  in  days  that  arc  gone.  But  missionary  history 
is  hardly  worth  the  telling,  unless  it  leads  the  reader 
to  bring  the  experience  of  the  past  to  bear  upon  the 
missionary  problems  of  to-day,  and  enables  him  to  solve 
the  problems   of  to-day  by  the   insight    and   the  instinct. 


viii  PREFACE 

as  it  were,  that  reward  the  patient  investigator  into  the 
deeds  and  the  purposes  of  those  who  have  gone  before. 
A  knowledge  of  the  history  of  all  the  societies  is  of  little 
service  unless  the  conscience  of  the  reader  is  enlightened. 
his  love  for  those  for  whom  Christ  died  deepened,  and 
his  zeal  for  the  furtherance  of  the  great  missionary  cause 
strengthened. 

Although  these  two  volumes  are  bulky,  again  and  again 
in  their  production  important  documents  and  whole  pages 
of  illustrative  incident,  of  valuable  and  suggestive  personal 
experience  on  the  part  of  missionary  workers,  have  had 
to  be  omitted,  very  often  after  having  been  actually  in 
type.  To  give  the  details  fully,  to  trace  as  one  would 
have  liked  to  do  collateral  influences  and  results,  to  do 
full  justice  to  every  worker  and  every  portion  of  the 
field,  would  have  required  six  volumes  rather  than  two. 
And  it  would  have  been  much  easier  to  write  the  six. 
and  to  make  them  interesting,  than  the  two.  It  has  often 
taken  more  anxious  ponderings  and  more  precious  hours  to 
decide  what  had  to  be  left  out,  than  to  finally  settle  what 
was  to  go  in.  The  work  of  compression  has  been  severe  ; 
but  it  is  hoped  that  nothing  which  can  fairly  claim  ad- 
mission has  been  omitted.  If  here  and  there  the  skeleton 
rather  than  the  appropriately  clothed  form  is  discernible, 
this  is  the  explanation. 

Much  consideration  was  given  to  the  plan  of  the  book, 
and  the  method  of  treating  the  history  contemporaneously 
over  the  whole  field  in  periods  of  ten  or  twenty  years  was 
considered  less  satisfactory  than  that  finally  adopted.  The 
origin  and  founding  of  the  Society  are  first  described  ;  then 
the  home  administration  and  the  inner  working  during  the 
first  twenty- five  years.     This  was  the  critical  period  during 


PREFACE  ix 

which  the  main  principles  and  methods  were  settled  which 
have  been  followed  throughout  the  century.  The  story  of 
the  various  missions  follows,  for  the  most  part  in  chrono- 
logical order,  the  plan  adopted  in  this  section  being  to  give 
the  entire  history  of  each  mission  in  consecutive  chapters. 
The  story  of  home  administration  from  1820  to  J  89 5 
concludes  the  work. 

Throughout,  one  chief  aim  has  been  the  attempt  to  do 
full  justice  to  quiet  and  diligent  workers,  and  to  unobtrusive 
but  faithful  service.  It  has,  of  course,  been  necessary  to 
give  considerable  space  to  the  achievements  of  such  men 
as  Henry  Nott,  John  Williams,  Dr.  Vanderkemp,  Robert 
Moffat,  David  Jones,  David  Griffiths,  Ringeltaube,  Benjamin 
Rice,  Dr.  Morrison,  Dr.  IMedhurst,  James  Gilmour,  and 
John  Wray.  But  the  author  has  also  sought  to  place 
the  reader  where  he  can  estimate  rightly  the  work  and 
character  of  relatively  unknown  workers,  equally  deserving 
to  be  held  in  remembrance  by  the  side  of  their  more 
famous  colleagues.  Such  men,  for  example,  were  Thomas 
Jefferson,  Henry  Bicknell  Henry  Royle,  James  Read, 
William  Ashton,  David  Johns,  George  Pratt,  Thomas 
Powell,  John  Hay,  William  Beynon,  W.  B.  Addis,  and 
a  host  of  others,  records,  often  unhappily  far  too  brief,  of 
whose  devoted  service  are  contained  in  these  volumes. 

This  principle  has  been  allowed  full  scope  also  in  the 
selection  of  the  portraits  introduced.  Wherever  possible, 
the  men  and  women  chosen  have  been  those  not  likely  to 
be  familiar  to  the  reader.  Many  famous  men  like  Griffith 
John  of  Hankow,  Muirhead  of  Shanghai,  and  Chalmers  of 
New  Guinea,  are  unrepresented  because,  except  in  the  case 
of  the  officials  actually  in  office  during  the  Centenary  year. 
no  portraits  of  living  workers  have  been  admitted.     And  as 


X  PREFACE 

only  a  limited  number  could  be  admitted,  men  like  John 
Williams,  Robert  Moffat,  and  Dr.  Turner,  with  whose  like- 
nesses all  are  familiar,  have  given  place  to  quiet  workers 
like  Aaron  Buzacott,  William  Ashton,  and  Thomas  Powell. 
The  valuable  work  done  by  missionaries'  wives  is  recognized 
by  portraits  of  Mrs.  Mault,  Mrs.  Porter,  and  Mrs.  Mullens. 
As  typical  native  chiefs  and  preachers,  Pomare,  Papeiha, 
Khame,  Devadasan,  Ruatoka,  and  Andriambelo  have  been 
selected,  two  in  this  list  being  still  (1899)  alive. 

In  this  connection  it  is  noteworthy  that  the  Society  has 
been  so  honoured  during  the  century  by  the  Great  Head 
of  the  Church  as  to  be  able  to  take  a  prominent  place  in 
many  of  the  great  achievements  for  the  uplifting  of  humanity 
which  the  nineteenth  century  has  witnessed.  It  was  first  of 
modern  Protestant  Societies  to  begin  work  in  Polynesia,  in 
China,  in  Madagascar.  The  refusal  of  the  Directors  of  the 
East  India  Company  to  allow  Haldane  and  Bogue  with 
their  two  colleagues  to  go  to  India,  led  the  Society  to  exert 
very  powerful  influence  upon  the  movement  which,  in  18 13, 
threw  all  India  open  to  missionary  labour.  James  Smith  was 
martyred  by  the  officials  of  Demerara ;  but  this  crime  gave 
the  impetus  needful  to  carry  the  work  of  emancipation 
through  its  last  stages.  The  work  of  Vanderkemp,  Philip, 
Moffat,  and  Livingstone  in  Africa  has  profoundly  influenced 
the  colonial  policy  of  Great  Britain  toward  native  races.  And 
not  the  least  noteworthy  achievement  of  the  century  has 
been  the  constant  and  powerful  reflex  action  upon  the  faith 
and  zeal  and  self-sacrifice  of  the  home  churches  of  such 
great  achievements  as  the  mission  to  Tahiti,  the  conversion 
of  Imcrina  in  Madagascar,  and  the  mission  to  New  Guinea. 

The  author  gratefully  acknowledges  the  help  he  has 
received  from  many  willing  coadjutors.      Throughout  he 


PREFACE  xi 

has  had  the  advantage  of  the  co-operation  of  Mr.  Henry 
Johnson,    whose   constant    and    intelligent   assistance   has 
rendered  the  book  much  more  complete  and  useful  than 
it  could   otherwise   have  been.      He    has    read  and   sum- 
marized vast  masses  of  correspondence,  investigated  many 
points    of  detail,  and,   last   but  not  least   of  his  services, 
prepared   the  full  and  complete   appendix    of  missionary 
workers,  and  the  copious  index  to  each  volume.    Mr.  Ward- 
law  Thompson  has  read  a  large  portion  of  the  proofs  and 
enriched   them    with    many   valuable    suggestions.      The 
veteran  Indian  missionary,  the  Rev.  J.  O.  Whitehouse,  has 
also  gone  through  a  large  portion  of  the  proofs,  and  from 
his    unrivalled    knowledge    of    the    stations   occupied    and 
workers  employed,  given  much  aid  of  the  highest  value. 
The  Rev.  J.  L.  Green  and  the  Rev.  W.  N.  Lawrence  gave 
much  time  to  the  careful  reading  of  the  Polynesian  section, 
and  Mr.  Green  read  also  the  portion  devoted  to  the  West 
Indies  ;  while  the  Rev.  Harry  Scott  and  the  Rev.  A.  E.  Hunt 
read  the  New  Guinea  section.    The  highly  important  section 
on  India,  perhaps  the  most  difficult  and  yet  in  many  ways 
a    most   attractive    portion,    owes   very    much    to    careful 
reading  by  and  helpful  suggestions^  the  outcome  of  many 
years'  residence  in  India,  from  the  Rev.  E.  P.  Rice,  B.A., 
the  Rev.  T.  E.  Slater,  and  the  Rev.  A.  Parker.     The  China 
section  is  enriched  by  much  valuable  aid  kindly  rendered  by 
the  veteran^  Dr.  John  Chalmers.     In  addition  to  the  above, 
the  author  is  indebted  to   one  and  another  for  help    on 
particular  points,  which  cannot  here  be  specified,  but  for 
which  he  presents  his  most  grateful  acknowledgements.    He 
also  desires  to   express    his   sense  of  the   invaluable   aid 
rendered    in    the    typographical    work,    and    in    all    the 
mechanical    work,  by  Mr.  Horace  Hart  and   his  Staff  at 


xii  PREFACE 

the  University  Press,  Oxford,  and  by  Mr.  Frowde  and  his 
Staff  in  London.  From  first  to  last  all  the  resources 
of  that  great  establishment  have  been  unreservedly 
taxed  to  make  the  work,  in  its  preparation,  typography, 
and  execution,  all  that  even  a  fastidious  book-lover  can 
desire. 

And  now  it  goes  forth  in  the  hope  and  with  the  prayer 
that  the  Great  Head  of  the  Church  will  deign  to  make 
this  record  of  what  He  by  His  grace  and  truth  has 
enabled  His  servants  to  accomplish  in  the  heathen  world 
during  the  past  century,  an  inspiration  for  yet  larger  and 
more  unremitting  and  more  fruitful  service  during  the  new 
century  upon  which  we  have  entered. 

LONDON;  April,  1S99, 


CONTENTS 


(HAP. 
I 


ORIGIN    AND    EARLY    WORK    OF    THE 
SOCIETY. 


The  Origin  and  Formation  of  the  Society 
II.     The  Early  Inner  History:  1795-1820 


PACK 

4.^ 


POLYNESIA. 

HI.  The  Mission  to  Tahiti         .... 

IV.  'The  Night  of  Toil' 

V.  The  First  Great  Victory   .... 

VI.  The  Isles  Beyond 

VII.  The  Consolidation  of  Christian  Influence  1 

Polynesia 

Mil.  The  Conquest  of  Tahiti  by  France 

IX.  The  Society  Islands  :  1840-1890  . 

X.  The  Hervey  Group  :  1835-1895    .        .        . 

XI.  Samoa:  1830-1895 

XII.  Extension  of  Work  in  Western  Polynesia 

XIII.  New  Guinea 

XIV.  A  Century's  Results  in  Polynesia    . 


Eastern 


^17 
146 
194 

23S 

290 
306 
326 
352 
373 
404 

431 
470 


AFRICA. 

XV.    The  Mission  to  the  Foulahs     .        .        .        . 
XVI.    Vanderkemp  and  the  Mission  to  the  Kafirs 


477 

48 1 


XIV 


CONTENTS 


XVII.  The  Founding  of  Bethelsdorp     . 

XVIII.  Other  Pioneer  Missions  in  South  Africa 

XIX.  The  Close  of  the  Pioneer  Period 

XX.  Dr.  Philip's  Administration:  1820-1850 

XXI.  The  Relinquishment  of  Work  in  Cape  Colony 

XXII.  KuRUMAN :   1818-1895 

XXIII.  David  Livingstone  and  his  Work 

XXIV.  The  Mission  to  the  Makololo     . 
XXV.  The  Matabele  Mission 

XXVI.  The  Bechwana  Mission  :  1860-1895 

XXVII.  The  Mission  to  Central  Africa  . 


PACK 
498 

518 

533 

539 

572 

582 

609 

618' 

624 

632 

649 


MADAGASCAR. 

XXVIII.  Madagascar:  1818-1835 

XXIX.  While  'the  Land  was  Dark':  1836-1861    . 

XXX.  Madagascar  reopened  to  the  Gospel 

XXXI.  The  Great  Conversion:   1868-1870 

XXXII.  The  Malagasy  Church:  1870-1895 

XXXIII.  The  Spread  of  Christianity  beyond  Im^rina 

XXXIV.  Education  and  Medical  Missions 
XXXV.  Christian  Literature  in  Madagascar 

XXXVI.  Relations  with  Other  Societies— French  Aggression 


673 

700 
711 
725 
737 
755 
765 
774 
783 


APPENDIX  I.  A  Complete  List  of  the  Missionaries  who 
have  laboured  in  Polynesia,  Africa,  and  Mada- 
gascar        - 793 

APPENDIX  II.     Letter    from    W.    H.    Wills,    Esq.,   on    the 

Okigination   of  the  London  Missionary  Society   .    802 


INDEX 


803 


PORTRAITS 


1.  T.  Haweis  ;  John  Eyre;   George  Burder  ;   John  Love; 

AND  David  Bogue Frontispiece 

2.  Rowland  Hill;  Matthew  Wilks;  Joseph  Hardcastle; 

Alexander  Waugh;   and  William  Shrubsole     To  face  p.    49 

3.  The    Cession    of    Matavai,    containing    Portraits    of 

Captain  Wilson,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry,  Mr.  Jef- 
ferson, Mrs.  Hassall,  Mr.  W.  Wilson,  Pomare  I, 
and  Pomare  II  with  his  Queen   .        .        .  To  face  p.  140 

4.  Pomare;   Papeiha;    Henry   Nott;    George   Gill;    and 

Aaron  Buzacott To  face  p.  225 

5.  A.  W.  Murray  ;  Thomas  Powell  ;   George  Pratt  ;    Cap- 

tain Morgan;  and  Ruatoka  .        .        .         To  face  p.  i^^ 

6.  Dr.  Vanderkemp;  William  Ashton ;  Dr.  Philip;  Khame; 

AND  John  Mackenzie To  face  p.  ^()- 

7.  David  Griffiths  ;  David  Jones  ;  ANDRiAMBiLo  ;  William 

Ellis;  and  J.  J.  Freeman      ....         To  face  p.6-j^. 


MAPS 


1.  Sketch    Maps    of    Tahiti,    Eimeo,    and    the    Society 

Islands To  face  p.  147 

2.  Australasia  and  Polynesia 

3.  Samoa 

4.  South-East  New  Guinea 

5.  South  Africa 

6.  Lake  Ngami  District    . 

7.  The  Lake  Region  of  Central  Africa 

8.  Madagascar 

9.  Lm^rina,  SihAnaka,  and  BetsimisAraka  Missions 
10.  Betsileo  and  South-East  Coast  Missions 


239 
373 
431 
481 
638 
649 
689 
755 
759 


X 


ORIGIN    AND    KARLY  WORK 
OF  THE   SOCIETY 


I.      " 


'  How  shall  we  liken  the  kingdom  of  God?  It  is  like  a  grain  of  mustard 
seed,  which,  when  it  is  sown  upon  the  earth,  though  it  be  less  than  all 
the  seeds  that  are  upon  the  earth,  yet  when  it  is  sown,  groweth  up,  and 
becometh  greater  than  all  the  herbs,  and  putteth  out  great  branches  ;  so 
that  the  birds  of  the  heaven  can  lodge  under  the  shadow  thereof.' — Mark 
iv.  30-32  (R.  v.). 

'We  are  commanded  "to  love  our  neighbour  as  ourselves";  and  Christ 
has  taught  us  that  every  man  is  our  neighbour.  But  do  we  display  this  love 
while  we  allow  gross  darkness  to  cover  the  Pagan  and  Mahometan  nations, 
and  are  at  no  pains  to  send  them  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation  through  the 
sufferings  and  death  of  the  Son  of  God?' — Mr.  Bogue's  appeal  'To  the 
Evangelical  Dissenters  who  practise  Infant  Baptism,'  August,  1794. 

'  Let  it  be  remembered  that  Britain,  Christian  Britain,  was  once  an  island 
of  idolatrous  barbarians  ;  and  such  it  had  yet  remained,  unless  some  of 
God's  dear  people  in  distant  countries  had  formed  the  benevolent  plan  of 
sending  missionaries  hither.  Let  us  in  return  "  go  and  do  likewise."  ' — 
Mr.  Burder's  Address,  January,  1795. 


CHAPTER  I 

THE   ORIGIN    AND   FORMATION    OF    THE   SOCIETY 

The  London  Missionary  Society,  like  the  other  great 
reh'gious  and  philanthropic  organizations  which  sprang  into 
existence  at  the  close  of  the  eighteenth  and  the  beginning 
of  the  nineteenth  centuries,  is  a  child  of  the  evangelical 
revival  in  England  originated  by  Whitefield  and  the 
Wesleys.  The  first  quarter  of  the  eighteenth  century  was 
one  of  the  worst  periods  in  the  religious  history  of  the 
English  people.  Men  like  Swift  and  Sterne  could  find  a 
place  in  the  Anglican  Church  ;  nonconformity  was  living 
a  life  of  decorous  dullness,  producing  httle  or  no  effect  upon 
the  religious  experience  of  the  age  ;  infidelity,  advocated  by 
such  writers  as  Collins,  Shaftesbury,  and  Bolingbroke,  was 
rampant ;  while  the  masses  of  the  people  had  sunk  to  an 
almost  incredible  level  of  ignorance  and  brutality.  During 
the  closing  years  of  the  century  this  condition  of  affairs 
had  been  altered  greatly  for  the  better.  The  enormous 
and  energetic  Methodist  Societies  had  sprung  into  vigorous 
life,  every  other  section  of  the  Nonconformist  Church  had 
been  stimulated  into  energetic  action,  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land had  been  shaken  out  of  its  spiritual  torpor,  and  upon 
the  hearts  of  all  evangelical  Christians  had  been  laid  the 
burden  of  the  world's  sin  and  sorrow  and  needs  in  a  way 
quite  new  in  English  history.  One  of  the  first  results  of 
this  great  change  was  the  founding  of  the  organization  now 
known  all  the  world  over  as  the  London  Missionary  Society. 

The  last  decade  of  the  eighteenth  century  and  the  first 

B  2 


4      ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

of  the  nineteenth  century  were  years  of  poHtical  and  social 
upheaval.     Across   the    Channel    the    Revolution    was    re- 
making France,  while  at  the  time  multitudes  in  England 
believed  it   was  only  consummating  her  ruin.     In    Great 
Britain  the  fierce  social  and  political  struggle  was  rising, 
to  be  terminated    for  a   time   only  by  the  great  Reform 
Bill    of  1832.      Napoleon    Bonaparte    was   springing   into 
power  while  the  scheme  of  the  Society  was  taking  shape 
in  the  minds  of  its  founders.     The  year  in  which  the  Duff 
sailed   on  her  beneficent  errand  saw  the   Battle   of  Cape 
St.  Vincent,  and  the  issue  of  Edmund  Burke's  Letters  on 
a  Regicide  Peace.     Ere  the  Society  was  ten  years  old,  in 
1798,  Irish  aspirations  had  been  crushed  at  Vinegar  Hill  ; 
in  1799  the  huge  district  of  Mysore  in  India  passed  under 
British  sway  ;  in  1800  the  Act  of  Union  linked  Ireland  to 
Britain  by  a  bond  which  the  former  has  ever  since  struggled 
to  destroy;  in  1803  British  arms  won  the  field  of  Assaye, 
and  in  1805  the  British  fleet  gained  the  crowning  victory 
oi  Trafalgar.     It  was  a  time  of  stress  and  of  poverty  at 
home,  of  conflict  and  of  victory  abroad.     Yet  amid  move- 
ments  so    tremendous,    and    in    the    midst    of    influences 
apparently  so  unpropitious,  this  and  other  great  Christian 
agencies  full  of  hope  and  of  blessing  for   men   grew  into 
forceful  life. 

The  honour  of  leading  the  van  in  the  formation  of  the 
great  modern  missionary  agencies  does  not  belong  to  the 
London  Society;  that  is  the  glory  of  the  Baptist  Church. 
About  1788  William  Carey  wrote  his  famous  pamphlet, 
•An  Enquiry  into  the  Obligations  of  Christians,  to  use  means 
for  the  Conversion  of  the  Heathen,'  which  was  published 
at  Leicester  in  1792.  On  May  31,  1792,  he  preached  at 
Nottingham  his  epoch-making  sermon  on  Isa.  liv.  2,  3, 
in  which  he  enforced  the  two  great  themes,  the  basis  of  all 
sound  missionary  effort :  '  Expect  great  things  from  God  ' ; 
'  Attempt  great  things  for  God.'  Profound  and  heart- 
searching  was  the  effect  of  this  thrilling  deliverance  upon 
the  little  company  of  ministers  and  others  who  heard  it, 
but  they  were  beginning  to  separate  without  transforming 


THE  MEETING  IN  BRISTOL    TABERNACLE        5 

spiritual  impression  into  practical  effort.  The  psychological 
moment  in  the  history  of  modern  missions  had  come. 
Seizing  Andrew  Fuller's  arm  as  the  audience  was  beginning 
to  disperse,  Carey  cried,  'And  are  you,  after  all,  going 
again  to  do  nothing?'  The  appeal  was  irresistible.  The 
ministers  held  a  meeting,  and  recorded  the  minute,  fraught 
with  hope  and  blessing  to  untold  millions,  'That  a  plan  be 
prepared  against  the  next  ministers'  meeting  at  Kettering 
for  forming  a  Baptist  Society  for  propagating  the  Gospel 
among  the  Heathen.'  At  Kettering  on  October  2,  1792, 
the  Society  was  founded.  On  March  20,  1793,  at  Leicester. 
William  Carey  and  John  Thomas  were  solemnly  set  apart 
for  mission  work  in  India,  and  on  June  13  they  sailed — not 
in  an  East  Indiaman  but  in  a  Danish  vessel. 

In  July,  1794,  Dr.  Ryland,  of  Bristol,  received  a  letter 
from  Carey,  the  first  news  which  had  come  to  hand  since 
he  sailed,  and  as  soon  as  he  read  it  he  sent  for  Mr.  Bogue. 
of  Gosport  ^,  and  ]\Ir.  Steven,  of  the  Scotch  Church,  Covent 
Garden,  who  happened  then  to  be  in  Bristol  for  the  purpose 
of  preaching  special  sermons  at  Whitefield's  Tabernacle,  to 
share  his  joy  in  this  first  account  of  missionary  work  in 
India.  After  leaving  Dr.  Ryland,  Mr.  Bogue  and  Mr. 
Steven,  together  with  Mr.  Hey,  minister  of  the  Independent 
Church  at  Castle  Green,  Bristol,  held  a  meeting  in  the 
parlour  of  the  Tabernacle  for  prayer,  and  for  consultation 
on  the  best  way  in  which  they  could  arouse  the  public 
mind  to  the  grievously  neglected  duty  of  attempting  to 
send  the  Gospel  to  the  heathen.  Because  of  this  meeting 
that  room  was  often  in  after  days  called  '  the  cradle  of 
the  Missionary  Society^.'  An  immediate  and  direct  result 
of  these  events  was  the  preparation  by  Mr.  Bogue  of  the 
paper  published  in  the  Evangelical  Magazine  for  Sep- 
tember, 1794,  with  what  now  appears  to  be  the  curious 
heading,  *  To  the  Evangelical  Dissenters  who  practise 
Infant  Baptism.'     This  address  was  one  of  the  first  and 

'  For  a  letter  from  Mr.  W.  II,  Wills,  giving  additional  particulars  of  this 
meeting,  see  Appendix. 

'  See  Bennett's  Memoirs  of  the  Life  of  David  Bojue,  1827,  p.  170. 


6       ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

one  of  the  most  important  steps  in  the  great  and  provi- 
dential work  of  originating  the  London  Missionary  Society. 
And  this  fact  is  but  one  of  the  manifold  illustrations  of  the 
spiritual  law,  that  one  great  thing  attempted  for  God  by 
a  necessary  and  immediate  sequence  leads  on  to  others. 
John  Wesley,  shut  out  of  Epworth  Church,  preaches  the 
(Gospel  in  the  open  air ;  and,  little  as  many  desired  it,  the 
Church  of  England  was  thus  aroused  into  more  vigorous  life. 
William  Carey  sends  home  the  story  of  his  first  six  weeks 
in  Bengal,  and  no  sooner  is  the  letter  read  than  the  Holy 
Spirit  puts  it  into  the  hearts  of  His  servants  to  originate 
a  second  organization,  that  shall  in  time  achieve  greater 
things  for  God  and  man  than  even  William  Carey  or 
Mr.  Bogue  ever  dreamed. 

As  Mr.  Bogue's  address  is  the  seedling  from  which  has 
sprung  the  tree  *  whose  leaves  are  for  the  healino-  of  the 
nations,'  it  deserves  more  than  a  passing  mention  here. 
It  puts  the  case  clearly,  it  bases  the  appeal  upon  a  firm 
foundation,  and  it  contains  much  that  is,  if  anything,  even 
more  apphcable  to  1894  than  to  1794. 

'Christian  Brethren, 

'  God  has  favoured  us  with  the  knowledge  of  the  way 
of  salvation  through  a  crucified  Redeemer.  Our  obligations 
to  Him  on  this  account  are  inexpressible;  and,  I  trust,  we 
are  often  prompted  from  the  fulness  of  our  hearts  to  ask, 
What  shall  we  render  tmto  the  Lord  for  all  His  beiiefits  ? 
If  in  many  things  we  are  anxious  to  make  a  suitable  return, 
there  is  one  thing  with  respect  to  which,  if  weighed  in  the 
balance  of  the  sanctuary,  we  shall  be  found  wanting.  A 
survey  of  the  state  of  the  world  presents  to  us  more  than 
one-half  of  the  human  race  destitute  of  the  knowledge  of 
the  Gospel,  and  sitting  in  darkness  and  in  the  shadow 
of  death.  Their  deplorable  condition  it  is  utterly  impossible 
for  words  to  describe  I  And  what  have  we  done  for  their 
salvation  ?  There  are  hundreds  of  millions  of  poor  Pagans 
ignorant  of  the  true  God,  and  falling  down  before  stocks 
and  stones.     There  are  hundreds  of  millions  more  blinded 


MR.   BOGUE'S  ARTICLE,   1794  7 

by  the  delusions  of  Mahomet ;  and  unacquainted  with 
Jesus,  as  the  only  mediator  between  God  and  man,  whom 
to  know  is  eternal  life.  If  we  have  never  thought  of  these 
things,  there  is  much  reason  to  lament  our  criminal  uncon- 
cern for  the  honour  of  God,  and  for  the  salvation  of  the 
perishing  souls  of  men.  If  they  have  been  the  subject 
of  our  serious  consideration  ;  with  such  a  scene  before  our 
eyes,  what  methods  have  we  employed  that  all  these  myriads 
of  Pagans  and  Mahometans  might  be  delivered  from  the 
power  of  darkness,  and  translated  into  the  kingdom  of 
God's  dear  Son? 

*  While  we  are  forced  to  acknowledge  that  we  have  as 
a  body  done  nothing,  we  may  justly  reflect  we  are  under 
the  strongest  obligations  to  do  everything  in  our  power. 
We  all  know  that  it  is  the  supreme  end  of  our  existence  to 
glorify  God.  But  can  we  suppose  that  though  we  endeavour 
personally  to  live  to  His  honour,  our  obligations  are  fulfilled, 
while  we  have  employed  no  methods  as  a  Christian  body  to 
lead  our  brethren  in  Pagan  lands  to  glorify  Him  also,  by 
making  them  acquainted  with  His  nature,  government,  and 
grace  ?  We  profess  "  to  love  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in 
sincerity."  But  are  we  not  bound  thereby  "  to  shed  abroad 
the  sweet  odour  of  His  name  in  every  place,"  till  it  be 
diffused  throughout  all  the  dark  paths  of  the  earth,  the 
habitations  of  ignorance  and  cruelty?  We  are  commanded 
•■  to  love  our  neighbour  as  ourselves"  ;  and  Christ  has  taught 
us  that  every  man  is  our  neighbour.  But  do  we  display 
this  love  while  we  allow  gross  darkness  to  cover  the  Pagan 
and  Mahometan  nations,  and  are  at  no  pains  to  send  to 
them  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation  through  the  sufferings 
and  death  of  the  Son  of  God  ?  Perhaps  we  have  not  con- 
sidered our  duty  resulting  from  that  command  which  was 
directed  from  the  supreme  authority  to  every  follower  of 
the  Lamb  :  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  Gospel  to 
every  creature.  That  has  not  yet  been  done.  It  ought  to 
be  done  without  delay;  and  every  Christian  is  called  upon 
to  act  his  part,  and  cannot  without  criminality  withhold 
his  exertions  towards  procuring  obedience  to  the  command 


8       ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

of  his  Redeemer  and  his  Lord.  Gratitude  calls  loudly  to 
us  to  be  active  instruments  in  the  hands  of  Christ,  in  pro- 
claiming to  the  most  distant  parts  of  the  earth  that  grace 
of  which  we  hope  we  have  ourselves  been  made  partakers. 
Justice  too  unites  her  strong  and  imperious  voice,  and 
cries,  "  Ye  were  once  Pagans,  living  in  cruel  and  abominable 
idolatry.  The  servants  of  Jesus  came  from  other  lands, 
and  preached  His  Gospel  among  you.  Hence  your  know- 
ledge of  salvation.  And  ought  ye  not,  as  an  equitable 
compensation  for  their  kindness,  to  send  messengers  to  the 
nations  which  are  in  like  condition  with  yourselves  of  old. 
to  entreat  them  that  they  turn  from  their  dumb  idols  to 
.serve  the  living  God,  and  to  wait  for  His  Son  from  heaven  ? 
Verily  their  debtors  ye  are." 

'But  it  may  be  asked,  "  Why  are  we  in  particular  called 
on  to  exert  ourselves  in  this  work?  Will  it  satisfy  you  if 
I  answer,  that  I  am  one  of  you,  and  think  myself  on  this 
account  obliged  to  speak  more  immediately  to  you?  A 
connection  with  a  society  or  denomination  of  Christians 
should  certainly  influence  us  to  seek  the  welfare  of  that 
society,  and  authorizes  us  to  invite  its  members  to  discharge 
the  duties  incumbent  on  them.  Besides,  all  other  bodies  of 
professing  Christians  have  done,  and  are  doing,  something 
for  the  conversion  of  the  Heathen.  The  labours  of  the 
Church  of  Rome  have  been  far  more  abundant  than  those 
of  all  other  sects  whatever.  O  that  they  had  but  conveyed 
Christianity  pure  to  the  blinded  Pagans  !  The  Church  of 
England  has  a  society  of  considerable  standing,  for  the 
propagation  of  the  Gospel.  The  Kirk  of  Scotland  supports 
a  similar  institution.  The  Moravian  Brethren  have,  if  we 
consider  their  numbers  and  their  substance,  excelled  in  this 
respect  the  whole  Christian  world.  Of  late  the  Methodists 
have  exerted  themselves  with  a  most  commendable  zeal. 
An  association  is  just  formed  by  the  Baptists  for  this  bene- 
volent purpose ;  and  their  first  missionaries  have  already 
entered  on  the  work.  We  alone  are  idle.  There  is  not 
a  body  of  Christians  in  the  country,  except  ourselves,  but 
have  put  their  hand  to  the  plough.    We  alone  (and  it  must 


MR.   BOGUE'S  ARTICLE,   1794  g 

be  spoken  to  our  shame)  have  not  sent  messengers  to  the 
Heathen  to  proclaim  the  riches  of  redeeming  love.  It  is 
surely  full  time  that  we  had  begun.  We  are  able.  Our 
number  is  great.  The  wealth  of  many  thousands  of  indi- 
viduals is  considerable.  I  am  confident  that  very  many 
among  us  are  willing,  nay  desirous,  to  see  such  a  work  set 
on  foot,  and  will  contribute  liberally  of  their  substance  for 
its  support.  Nothing  is  wanting  but  for  some  persons  to 
stand  forward,  and  to  begin. 

'We  have  the  greatest  encouragement,  Brethren,  to 
engage  in  this  work  of  love.  The  sacred  Scripture  is  full 
of  promises,  that  the  knowledge  of  Christ  shall  cover  the 
earth,  as  the  waters  cover  the  channel  of  the  sea  ;  and  every 
promise  is  a  call  and  a  motive  to  enter  on  the  service  with- 
out delay.  It  is  the  cause  of  God,  and  will  prevail.  Should 
we  even  fail  in  the  attempt,  we  shall  not  lose  our  labour  ; 
for  though  the  heathen  should  not  be  gathered  by  our 
means,  "yet  we  shall  be  glorious  in  the  eyes  of  our  God." 
But  we  have  no  reason  to  expect  such  an  issue.  For  all 
who  are  engaged  have  m.et  with  such  success,  as  to  animate 
others  to  unite  their  vigorous  endeavours.  In  no  one  place 
have  pious  and  persevering  missionaries  laboured  in  vain. 

'  Some  perhaps  may  ask,  what  can  we  do?  We  are 
willing  to  assist ;  but  how  can  our  assistance  avail  ?  Need 
I  say,  Brethren,  that  our  duty  is  to  use  the  means  of  divine 
appointment  ?  In  every  age  of  the  Church,  the  propaga- 
tion of  the  Gospel  has  been  by  the  preaching  of  the 
ministers  of  Jesus  Christ.  By  the  same  method  are  we 
to  propagate  the  Gospel  now.  It  is  highly  probable  that 
some  zealous  men  would  present  themselves,  who  are  well 
qualified  to  go  immediately  on  a  mission  among  the 
heathen.  But  in  general  they  will  require  some  previous 
instruction  ;  and  therefore  it  will  be  necessary  to  found 
a  Semiuajy  for  training  up  persons  for  the  work.  An  able 
and  eminently  pious  minister  in  a  central  situation  must 
be  sought  for  to  superintend  it.  And  as  the  education  of 
a  missionary  must  be  in  many  respects  widely  different 
from  that  of  those  who  preach  in   Christian  countries,  it 


lo     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

may  be  expected  that  every  man  of  talents  will  unite  his 
endeavours  to  render  the  plan  of  instruction  as  well  adapted 
to  answer  the  end  in  view,  and  in  every  respect  as  com- 
plete as  possible.     For  the  support  of  the  seminary,  and 
of  the  missionaries,  funds  must  be  provided.     And  I  do  not 
think  I  am  too  sanguine  in  my  expectations  when   I   say 
I  am  fully  persuaded,  that  in  every  congregation  among  us 
annual  subscribers  will  be  found,  and  an  annual  collection 
granted  ;  and   that  the  produce  of  these,  aided   by  occa- 
sional donations,  and  by  legacies  from  the  lovers  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  will  be  sufficient  for  maintaining  at  least 
twenty  or  thirty  missionaries  among  the  heathen.     What 
pleasing  and  glorious  effects  may  result  from  their  labours, 
it  is  impossible  for  the  human  mind  to  calculate. 

'  With   objects    before   us   so    grand,   and    prospects   so 
delightful,  I  conjure  you.  Brethren,  to  exert  yourselves  in 
the  cause  of  your  Redeemer,  and  of  perishing  souls.     An 
insulated  individual,  and  not  having  an  opportunity  of  con- 
sulting with  others,  I  take  this  method  of  recommending 
the  subject  to  your  serious  attention.     Think  of  it  in  your 
most  pious  moments.     Let  it  be  matter  of  prayer  before 
God  ;  and  make  it  the  topic  of  your  conversation  one  with 
another.     As  it  is  the  duty  of  pastors  of  the  Church  '•  to  be 
forward  to  every  good  work,"  I  call  upon  the  ministers  of 
the  metropolis  to  consult  together  on  this  important  subject, 
and   without  loss   of  time   to  propose  some  plan   for  the 
accomplishment  of  this  most  desirable  end  ;  that  "  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  may  have  the  Heathen  for  His  inheritance,  and 
the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth  for  His  possession." 
'  26th  August,  1794.' 

Mr.  Bogue's  appeal  fell  upon  soil  that  had  been  prepared 
for  its  reception  in  several  different  directions.  The  estab- 
lishment of  \.\\Q  Evangelical  Magazine  in  1792  had  prepared, 
on  the  one  hand,  a  medium  for  placing  it  in  the  hands  of 
serious  readers,  and  had  already  done  something  towards 
bringing  into  fellowship  evangelical  clergymen,  noncon- 
formist ministers,  and  laymen  of  both  sections.     The  Rev. 


HORNE'S   'LETTERS   ON  MISSIONS'  ii 

John  Eyre,  the  founder  and  principal  editor  of  the  maga- 
zine, was  a  prime  agent  in  the  origination  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society.  He  had  been  educated,  first  at  the 
Countess  of  Pluntingdon's  College  at  Trevecca,  then  at 
Emmanuel  College,  Cambridge,  and  about  1786  he  became 
minister  of  the  Episcopal  Chapel  at  Homerton.  In  con- 
junction with  Matthew  Wilks  he  established  the  periodical, 
which  still  (1899)  maintains  a  vigorous  existence,  and  which 
was  for  many  years  almost  an  official  organ  of  the  Mis- 
sionary Society.  The  magazine  for  November,  1794, 
contained  a  long  and  careful  review,  written  by  Dr.  Haweis, 
chaplain  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  of  a  book  called  Letters  on 
Missions ;  addressed  to  the  Protestant  Ministers  of  the 
British  Churches,  This  book,  written  by  the  Rev.  Melville 
Home,  a  clergyman  of  the  Church  of  England,  who  had 
been  chaplain  of  Sierra  Leone,  and  who  had  tried  to  estab- 
lish there  a  mission  among  the  natives,  attracted  a  good 
deal  of  attention.  The  writer  quotes  the  great  missionary 
words,  '  Go  ye  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel  to 
every  creature,'  and  asks,  'What  monies  have  we  subscribed, 
what  associations  have  we  formed,  what  prayers  have  we 
offered  up,  what  animated  exhortations  have  we  given  to 
our  flocks  and  to  one  another,  on  the  subject  of  missions?  ' 
He  sketches  the  history  of  missions  by  the  Jesuits,  Mora- 
vians, and  Methodists,  and  infers,  '  I  fear  I  should  be  too 
liberal  were  I  to  say  that  there  are  in  the  whole  heathen 
world  one  hundred  thousand  genuine  converts.'  He  then 
indicates  how,  in  his  opinion,  missions  might  be  carried  on, 
instancing,  for  example,  the  South  Seas  and  India.  The 
style  is  vehement  and  eager,  but  the  reviewer  says,  *  No 
good  man  can  be  offended  with  his  cause  or  his  manner  of 
pleading  it ;  and  as  to  the  herd  of  nominal  Christians, 
whether  ministers  or  people,  stir  do  nnrras  fahidani.  .  .  . 
Could  such  a  society  be  formed  upon  Mr.  Home's  large 
scale,  below  which  little  or  no  good  can  be  expected,  we 
have  the  pleasure  to  inform  the  public  that  one  gentleman 
has  pledged  himself  for  ;^  100,  and  that  we  have  £500  more 
engaged  from   another   respectable    minister   [Dr.   Haweis 


12     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

himself],  for  the  equipment  of  the  first  six  persons  who 
shall  be  willing  to  devote  themselves,  and  be  approved  by 
such  society  for  a  mission  to  the  South  Sea  Islands.' 

Home's  book  exerted  considerable  influence,  not  only  in 
stimulating  missionary  zeal,  but  also  in  emphasizing  the 
fact  that  evangelical  adherents  of  the  different  Churches  at 
home  ought  to  combine  in  the  great  enterprise,  thus  showing 
in  the  most  practical  way  that  differences  of  ecclesiastical 
polity,  and  also  to  some  extent  even  in  doctrine,  need  not 
hinder  aggressive  Christian  work.  The  Rev.  John  Eyre 
himself  was  so  deeply  moved  by  the  review  and  by  the 
book  itself  that  at  a  meeting  held  in  the  Dissenters'  Library, 
Red  Cross  Street,  he  discussed  the  great  questions  it  raised 
with  Messrs.  Waugh,  Love,  and  Steven,  who  happened  to 
be  there.  On  his  return  from  this  meeting  he  called  on 
Matthew  Wilks,.  at  the  Tabernacle,  and  repeated  to  him 
the  conversation  ;  and  this  led  the  two  ministers  to  begin 
a  fortnightly  meeting  at  the  Castle  and  Falcon,  Aldersgate 
Street,  for  conference  and  prayer  on  the  subject  of  missions. 

Another  movement  not  without  considerable  influence  in 
the  origination  of  the  Society  is  best  illustrated  by  what 
was  taking  place  during  1793  and  1794  among  the  ministers 
of  Warwickshire.  On  June  27,  1793,  they  met  to  discuss 
the  question,  '  What  is  the  duty  of  Christians  with  respect 
to  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  ?*  They  resolved  '  That  it  is  the 
duty  of  all  Christians  to  employ  every  means  in  their  power 
to  spread  the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  both  at  home  and 
abroad' ;  '  that  we  unite  in  a  determination  to  promote  this 
great  design  in  our  respective  connexions';  'that  we  will 
immediately  recommend  to  our  friends  the  formation  of 
a  fund  for  the  above  purpose';  'that  the  first  Monday  of 
every  month,  at  seven  o'clock  in  the  evening,  be  a  season 
fixed  on  for  united  prayer  to  God,  for  the  success  of  every 
attempt  by  all  denominations  of  Christians  for  the  spread 
of  the  Gospel  ^'      Dr.  Williams,  then    minister   of  Carr's 

'  For  interesting  particulars  of  this  meeting,  held  in  the  house  of  Rev. 
J.  Moody  of  Warwick,  see  Independency  in  Warwickshire,  Sibree  and  Caston, 
1855,  pp.  139-141- 


MEETING  IN  BAKER'S   COFFEE  HOUSE  13 

Lane,  Birmingham,  and  afterwards  President  of  Rotherham 
Academy,  was  appointed  to  draw  up  a  circular  letter,  and 
a  collection  was  made  amounting  to  £^  ^s.  The  letter  of 
Dr.  Williams  was  sent  to  the  different  associations  of  Inde- 
pendent ministers  throughout  England  and  Wales,  and 
became  a  powerful  factor  in  developing  the  rapidly-growing 
opinion,  that  the  time  had  come  for  energetic  action  in  the 
attempt  to  win  the  world  to  the  Saviour. 

In  London,  after  the  issue  of  Mr.  Bogue's  appeal,  events 
moved  rapidly.  The  association  already  referred  to,  initiated 
by  John  Eyre  and  Matthew  Wilks,  led  to  the  first  meeting 
in  London,  which  formally  considered  the  practicability 
of  founding  a  new  missionary  society.  It  was  held  on 
November  4,  3794,  at  Baker's  Coffee  House,  Change  Alley, 
Cornhill,  which  at  that  time  was  used  for  an  hour  or  two 
every  Tuesday  morning  as  a  place  for  chat  and  the  inter- 
change of  news  by  the  London  ministers.  This  memorable 
gathering  consisted  of  David  Bogue.  minister  of  the  Inde- 
pendent Church  at  Gosport ;  Joseph  Brooksbank,  pastor  of 
the  Independent  Church  assembling  at  Haberdashers'  Hall, 
London  ;  John  Eyre ;  John  Love,  minister  of  the  Scotch 
Church  in  Artillery  Street,  and  afterwards  one  of  the  first 
Secretaries  of  the  Society ;  John  Reynolds,  of  Camomile 
Street  Independent  Church  ;  James  Steven,  minister  of  the 
Scotch  Church,  Crown  Court ;  Matthew  Wilks,  minister  of 
Moorfields  Tabernacle  ;  and  John  Townsend,  minister  of 
the  Independent  Church,  Bermondsey.  '  It  was  a  small 
but  glowing  and  harmonious  circle  of  minis!:ers  of  various 
connexions  and  denominations.  From  that  time  there 
appeared  a  gradual  increase  of  cordial  friends  to  the 
perishing  heathen,  though  many  respectable  characters 
whose  early  patronage  of  this  cause  was  desired  yielded  to 
cautious  hesitation,  and  some  were  perhaps  disposed  to 
attach  presumption  to  the  undertaking  ^'  Those  present 
decided  to  invite  other  ministers  to  their  meetings,  and  for 
greater  convenience  secured  a  larger  room  at  the  Castle 

'  Sermons  preached  at  the  formation  of  the  Missionary  Society,  p.  vi. 


14    ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION   OF  THE  SOCIETY 

and  Falcon,  in  Aldersgate  Street.  This  inn  was  chosen 
probably  not  only  as  a  central  place,  but  also  because  it 
was  kept  at  that  time  by  a  Mr.  Dupont,  who  was  a  regular 
attendant  at  Spa  Fields  Chapel  and  at  the  Tabernacle. 
These  meetings  were  attended  not  unfrequently  by  leading 
country  ministers  who  happened  to  be  passing  through 
London.  The  first  hour  was  spent  in  prayer  and  in  the 
reading  of  those  parts  of  Scripture  which  bear  directly 
upon  the  conversion  of  the  heathen,  and  then  a  conference 
was  held  bearing  especially  upon  missionary  affairs. 

Unfortunately  no  minutes  have  come  down  to  us  of  the 
earliest  of  these  meetings.  The  first  of  which  any  "record 
is  extant  in  the  minutes  of  the  Society  took  place  on 
January  8,  1795.  Present,  John  Eyre  (in  the  chair), 
Matthew  Wilks,  Isaac  Nicholson,  Principal  of  Cheshunt 
College,  James  Steven,  Robert  Simpson  of  Hoxton 
Academy,  T.  Williams  of  Rose  Lane,  J.  Cockin  of  Halifax, 
and  John  Love.  At  the  next  meeting,  held  on  January  15, 
there  were  present  the  following  ministers  : — Waugh  (in  the 
chair).  Eyre,  Knight,  Townsend,  Steven,  Rooker,  Wilks, 
John  Knight,  Brooksbank,  Smith  of  Cambridge,  Love, 
Simpson,  Piatt,  Williams,  and  Cockin. 

We  quote  the  minutes  in  full,  since  this  was  the  second 
meeting  of  note  in  the  organization  of  the  Society  and 
from  its  decisions  important  consequences  followed : — 

'  Some  time  was  employed  in  prayer,  in  which  Messrs. 
Waugh,  Knight,  Wilks,  Rooker,  Cockin,  and  Eyre  engaged. 

'The  minutes  of  last  meeting  were  read  and  confirmed. 
A  short  account  was  given  to  the  Ministers  present  for  the 
first  time  of  the  progress  of  this  design  of  sending  mission- 
aries to  the  heathen. 

'  It  was  moved,  seconded,  and  unanimously  resolved, 
that  Ministers  who  favour  this  design,  and  desire  to  exert 
themselves  in  promoting  it  by  bringing  forward  a  general 
meeting  of  Ministers  and  others  for  the  purpose  of  organiz- 
ing a  Society  to  act  efficiently  in  the  ^tffair,  do  signify  the 
same  by  putting  down  their  names  in  a  book  to  be  provided 
for  the  purpose. 


THE  FORM  SUBSCRIBED,    FEB.   17,  1795  15 

'  It  was  resolved  that  the  Rev.  Mr.  Eyre  be  appointed 
Treasurer,  and  the  Rev.  Mr.  Love  Secretary  of  this  meeting. 
*  It  was  resolved  that  a  Committee  be  appointed  for  the 
purpose  of  corresponding  with  Ministers  in  the  country : 
and  that  the  following  gentlemen  be  of  that  Committee,  viz. 
Messrs.  Waugh,  Wilks,  Eyre,  Smith,  Steven,  Brooksbank, 
Piatt,  Love. 

'  It  was  resolved  that  next  meeting  of  this  Society  be  on 
the  first  Tuesday  of  February,  at  half-past  ten,  and  thence- 
forward once  a  fortnight.' 

Among  the  minutes  of  the  meeting  held  on  February  17, 
1795,  is  this  statement  : — 

'  The  form  drawn  up  for  the  subscription  of  those  who 
become  members  of  this  meeting  was  read  and  approved 
and  subscribed  by  the  Ministers  present.'  The  form  here 
referred  to  stands  upon  a  fly-leaf  of  the  old  minute-book, 
and  is  headed,  '  London,  Feb.  17th,  1795.'     It  runs  : — 

'  We  whose  names  are  here  subscribed,  declare  our 
earnest  desire  to  exert  ourselves  for  promoting  the  great 
work  of  introducing  the  Gospel  and  its  ordinances  to 
heathen  and  other  unenlightened  countries,  and  unite 
together,  purposing  to  use  our  best  endeavours,  that  we 
may  bring  forward  the  formation  of  an  extensive  and 
regularly  organized  society,  to  consist  of  evangelical  minis- 
ters and  lay  brethren  of  all  denominations,  the  object  of 
which  society  shall  be  to  concert  and  pursue  the  most 
effectual  measures  for  accomplishing  this  important  and 
glorious  design. 

Alexander  Easton        John  Towers 
John  Love  John  Townsend 

Joseph  Brooksbank        Alexander  Waugh 
Edward  Edwards  James  Weston 

J.  A.  Knight  Matthew  Wilks 

John  Knight  T.  Williams 

W.  F.  Platt  John  Eyre 

Joseph  Radford  James  Knight 

William  Roby  George  Jerment 

James  Steven  Jonathan  Scott 


i6    ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

John  Reynolds  Robert  Simpson 

Samuel  Greatheed  Thomas  Beck 

William  Moore  William  Graham 

William  Love  Andrew  Duncanson 

George  Townsend  T.  Priestley 

Thomas  Best  T.  Haweis 

Henry  Atley  John  Humphreys.' 

This  document  is  of  special  interest  and  importance. 
The  last  six  names  stand  on  the  reverse  of  the  page,  and 
at  an  early  date  the  affixing  of  signatures  appears  to  have 
ceased. 

At  a  meeting  held  on  January  8,  Mr.  Love  had  been 
appointed  to  write  a  circular  letter  '  to  some  Ministers  in  or 
near  London,'  and  with  this  letter  there  was  widely  dis- 
seminated an  address,  printed  in  the  Evangelical  Magazine 
for  January,  1795,  from  which  we  take  two  or  three 
paragraphs. 

'The  address  which  appeared  in  the  Evangelical  Maga- 
zi7ie  of  last  September,  on  the  subject  of  sending  mis- 
sionaries to  preach  the  Gospel  among  Pagan  nations, 
seems  to  have  awakened  considerable  attention.  Many 
acknowledge  the  desirableness  of  the  object ;  some  lament, 
with  tears,  its  having  been  so  long  neglected,  and  numbers 
only  wait  with  anxiety  for  an  opportunity  of  exerting 
themselves  in  so  glorious  a  cause. 

^  That  something  may  be  done  zvith  effect,  it  is  hoped 
that  not  only  Evangelical  Dissenters  and  Methodists  will 
be  found  generally  disposed  to  unite  in  instituting  a  Society 
for  this  express  purpose,  but  that  many  Members  of  the 
Established  Church,  of  evangelical  sentiments,  and  of  lively 
zeal  for  the  cause  of  Christ,  will  also  favour  us  with  their 
kind  co-operation.  Indeed,  the  increase  of  union  and 
friendly  intercourse  among  Christians  of  different  denomi- 
nations at  hc)me  is  one  of  the  happy  effects  which  will 
immediately  flow  from  an  institution  of  this  nature. 

*  In  order  to  the  organization  of  such  a  society,  it  has 
been  proposed  that  a  General  Meeting  of  Ministers  should 


*AN  ADDRESS   TO   CHRISTIAN  MINISTERS'     17 

be  held  in  London  early  in  the  ensuing  summer.  In  the 
meanwhile,  that  such  a  meeting  may  be  brought  forward 
with  advantage,  it  is  earnestly  desired  that  ministers  and 
others,  who  favour  the  design,  would  immediately  begin  to 
exert  themselves  in  their  particular  spheres.' 

After  enforcing  the  value  of  personal  canvass  in  arousing 
sympathy  and  in  obtaining  subscriptions,  and  emphasizing 
the  need  for  '  extraordinary  prayer,'  the  address  continues : 
'  But  the  ardour  of  our  joy  is  somewhat  damped  by  the 
opposite  consideration,  that,  even  among  serious  and  opulent 
professors  of  religion,  so7ne  are  to  be  found  of  a  timid,  cold, 
contracted  spirit,  who  lose  all  their  zeal  in  a  false  prudential 
delicacy ;  and  who  are  ever  crying  out,  "  A  lion  is  in  the 
way,"  when  any  benevolent  scheme  is  projected,  so  arduous 
and  extensive  as  this  before  us ! — With  such  an  object  in 
view,  obstacles  and  opposition  are  to  be  expected  ;  but 
what  difficulty  presents  itself  in  this  case,  which  by  sovereign 
grace  heretofore  has  not  been,  and  may  still  be,  surmounted  ? 
Even  the  temper  of  the  times,  which  some  w^ould  insinuate 
as  unfavourable  to  our  views,  is,  however  specious,  no  valid 
objection.  That  divine  oracle  is  a  sufficient  reply,  "  He 
that  observeth  the  winds  will  not  sow."  Besides,  the  faithful 
page  of  history  tells  us  that  times  of  the  most  gloomy  and 
unpromising  aspect  have,  by  the  wisdom  and  power  of  the 
great  Head  of  the  Church,  "rather  tended  to  the  furtherance 
of  the  Gospel."  Was  it  not  in  the  reigns  of  Tiberius, 
Caligula,  and  Nero,  that  "  so  mightily  grew  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  and  prevailed  "  ? ' 

The  Committee  of  Correspondence  issued  on  January  27 
the  first  circular  letter  sent  out  in  connection  with  the 
Society.  It  recounted  what  had  been  already  done,  and 
announced  the  intention  of  securing  '  early  in  the  ensuing 
summer  a  general  meeting  of  ministers  and  lay-brethren, 
delegated  from  all  parts  of  the  country,  to  plan  and 
organize  a  Society.' 

This  document  was  signed  by  Joseph  Brooksbank,  John 
Eyre,  John  Love,  William  F.  Piatt,  John  Reynolds,  William 
Smith,  James  Steven,  Alexander  Waugh,  Matthew  Wilks. 

I.  C 


1 8    ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

In  addition  to  these  appeals,  the  Rev.  George  Burder  of 

Coventry  had   drawn   up  an  address  which   he  submitted 

to    the   committee    meeting   at   the   Castle   and    Falcon  ; 

and    this,  after   being  carefully    revised    by   Messrs.  Eyre 

and   Wilks,  was    very  widely   circulated.     It  enables  the 

reader  to  appreciate  the  arguments   which  influenced  our 

fathers  in  originating  the  great  work  of  the  Society,  and 

it  clearly  sets  forth  the  spirit  in  which  they  entered  upon  it. 

It  is  only  by  a  careful  study  of  these  different  documents 

that  the  reader  can  fairly  comprehend  the  religious  life  of 

1795.     Further,  no   one  well   acquainted  with   missionary 

work  to-day  can  fail  to  see  how  accurate  and  how  apt  is 

most  of  their  reasoning.    Mr.  Burder's  address  was  included 

in  the  official  account  of  the  meetings  at  which  the  Society 

was    founded,   because  it   'deserves   to   be   transmitted    to 

posterity ' ;  and  the  lessons  it  enforces  have  yet  but  very 

imperfectly  been  mastered  by  Christian  people  : — 

*  An  Address  to  the  serious  and  zealous  Professors  of  the 
Gospel,  of  every  denomination,  respecting  an  attempt  to 
evangelize  the  Heathen. 

'  It  is  now  almost  eighteen  hundred  years  since  the  Friend 
of  Sinners  left  our  world,  and  left  it  with  this  gracious 
charge  to  His  disciples— •' Go  ye  forth,  and  teach  all 
nations!'  At  the  same  time  He  assured  them  that,  thus 
employed,  they  should,  in  all  ages,  and  in  all  places,  enjoy 
His  presence. 

'  Thus  commissioned  and  encouraged,  the  willing  disciples 
gladly  obeyed  their  Master's  last  command,  and  found  His 
promise  verified.  For  when,  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  they 
proclaimed  salvation  to  Jerusalem  sinners,  thousands  were 
pierced  to  the  heart  with  a  sense  of  sin,  and  cordially 
welcomed  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel.  A  glorious  church 
was  quickly  formed,  and  additions  were  continually  made 
to  it  '•  of  such  as  should  be  saved." — "  So  mightily  grew 
the  word  of  God,  and  prevailed."  And  when,  dispersed  by 
persecution,  "they  went  everywhere  preaching  the  word," 
glorious  indeed  was  the  progress  of  truth,  triumphant  over 


MR.   BURDER'S  ADDRESS,   1795  19 

all  the  opposition  of  earth  and  hell.  In  the  course  of  about 
300  years,  notwithstanding  every  possible  obstacle  was 
thrown  in  the  way,  great  parts  of  Europe,  Asia,  and  Africa 
were  evangelized.  A  dark  cloud  indeed  afterwards  covered 
the  earth.  First,  Arianism,  and  then  Mahometanism  ruined 
the  East ;  and  Popery^  by  the  introduction  of  dangerous 
doctrines  and  superstitious  rites,  tarnished  the  glory  of 
Christianity  in  the  West.  A  long  and  awful  night  suc- 
ceeded. At  length  the  day-spring  from  on  high  revisited 
the  earth.  The  apostolic  spirit  revived  in  the  glorious 
Reformers.  A  part  of  Christendom  regained,  and  has,  in 
a  measure,  ever  since  preserved  the  light  and  powder  of 
sacred  truth. 

'  But  it  is  astonishing  and  lamentable  to  reflect  how  few 
and  feeble  the  efforts  of  Christians,  since  that  period,  have 
been  to  evangelize  the  Pagan  part  of  the  world.  Some 
indeed  have  been  valiant  in  preaching  the  Gospel  at  home. 
Others  have  done  worthily  by  their  excellent  writings,  in 
contending  for  primitive  doctrine  against  internal  enenjies. 
But  oh  !  where  is  the  primitive  zeal  ?  Where  are  the  heroes 
of  the  Church — men  who  would  willingly  spend  and  be 
spent  for  Christ  ;  who  have  the  ambition  not  to  tread  in 
a  line  made  ready  for  them,  but  to  preach  Christ,  where, 
before,  He  was  not  named  ?  Men  who  count  not  their 
lives  dear,  so  that  they  might  win  souls  to  Christ  ? 

'We  ought  indeed  to  admire  that  peculiar  providence 
which  inclined  a  number  of  conscientious  and  persecuted 
Protestants  to  quit  their  native  island,  and  to  venture  on 
the  barren  shores  of  America,  where  they  not  only  estab- 
lished Gospel  churches  among  themselves,  but  planted 
others  among  the  native  Indians. 

'  But  oh  !  what  a  melancholy  proportion  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  globe  still  remain  in  the  shadow  of  death  !  It 
has  been  computed  that  481  millions  are  absolute  Pagans, 
destitute  of  the  true  God,  and  of  Jesus  Christ,  whom  He 
hath  sent. 

'  During  the  last  fifty  years  there  has  been  a  great 
revival  of  true  religion  among  ourselves.     Many  thousands 

C  2 


20    ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

of  Britons  have  been  brought  to  the  knowledge  of  redemp- 
tion. Jesus  has  become  precious  to  multitudes,  who  were 
blind  Pharisees  or  atrocious  sinners.  Much  laudable  zeal 
has  been  discovered  by  ministers  and  private  Christians,  in 
their  endeavours  to  spread  the  Gospel  in  their  respective 
neighbourhoods  ;  and  many  a  town,  and  many  a  village, 
can  boast  some  new  edifice,  in  which  the  free  grace  of 
Jesus  is  proclaimed,  and  His  worthy  praise  resounded. 
Conscious,  also,  that  hitherto  their  efforts  have  been  en- 
feebled for  want  of  union,  societies  of  Christians  begin,  in 
several  parts  of  the  kingdom,  to  associate  in  a  regular 
manner,  and,  in  limited  districts,  to  form  new  plans  of 
usefulness,  and  to  establish  funds  for  the  more  effectual 
promotion  of  vital  godliness. 

'Among  the  generous  designs  of  lively  Christians,  we 
rejoice  to  hear  that  more  than  a  few,  unacquainted  with 
each  other's  wishes,  have,  in  different  places,  expressed 
most  vehement  desires  to  do  something  for  the  poor 
heathen  ;  and,  without  any  present  specific  plan  of  co- 
operation in  view,  have  actually  begun  to  lay  by  a  little 
money,  that  they  may  be  ready  to  contribute  to  so  glorious 
a  work,  as  soon  as  ever  Providence  may  favour  them  with 
an  opportunity. 

'  Modern  discoveries  in  geography  have  perhaps  con- 
tributed to  enlarge  the  desires  of  Christians  in  this  respect. 
Captain  Cook  and  others  have  traversed  the  globe,  almost 
from  pole  to  pole,  and  have  presented  to  us,  as  it  were, 
a  new  world,  a  world  of  islands  in  the  vast  Pacific  Ocean  — 
some  of  them  as  promising  in  the  disposition  of  the  people 
as  in  the  appearance  of  the  country.  May  we  not  reason- 
ably hope  that  a  well-planned  and  well-conducted  mission 
to  one  or  more  of  these,  seconded  with  the  earnest  prayers 
of  thousands  of  British  Christians,  will  be  attended  with  the 
blessing  of  God,  and  issue  in  the  conversion  of  many  souls? 

'  Enterprises  of  this  kind,  supported  by  the  Danes,  the 
Moravians,  the  society  in  Scotland,  and  many  others,  have 
had  some  success  :  although  some  of  them  have  been 
conducted  on  plans  which  experience  has  now  taught  us 


MR.   BURDER'S  ADDRESS,   1795  21 

were  very  imperfect.  The  late  attempt  of  our  Christian 
brethren  of  the  Baptist  denomination,  so  highly  honourable 
to  their  active  zeal  and  true  philanthropy,  is  already  said 
to  wear  a  promising  aspect.  This  much  at  least  we  may 
infer,  that  when  a  benevolent  scheme  of  this  sort  is  adopted, 
neither  money  is  withheld  nor  missionaries  denied.  Oh 
that  we  may  soon  hear  of  multitudes  of  Hindoos  flying  to 
Christ  as  doves  to  their  windows,  and  uniting  together  in 
praising  the  Lamb  ! 

'  May  we  not  indulge  a  hope  that  the  happy  period  is 
approaching,  when  the  Redeemer  shall  take  unto  Him  His 
great  power  and  reign  ?  "He  7fiust  increase.  His  name 
s/ia/l  be  great."  And  is  there  not  a  general  apprehension 
that  the  Lord  is  about  to  produce  some  great  event? 
Already  have  we  witnessed  the  most  astonishing  trans- 
actions ;  and  is  it  not  probable  that  the  great  Disposer  of 
all  is  now  about,  by  shaking  terribly  the  nations,  to  estab- 
lish that  spiritual  and  extensive  kingdom  which  cannot 
be  shaken  ?  Let  us  then,  utterly  and  sincerely  disclaiming 
all  political  views  and  party  designs  ;  abhorring  all  attempts 
to  disturb  order  and  government  in  this  or  any  other 
country  ;  vigorously  unite,  in  the  fear  of  God,  and  in  the 
love  of  Christ,  to  establish  a  Missionary  Society  upon 
a  large  and  liberal  plan,  for  sending  ministers  of  Christ  to 
preach  the  Gospel  among  the  heathen. 

'  Many  thanks  are  due  to  some  late  writers  on  this  im- 
portant subject.  About  three  years  ago  Mr.  Carey,  of 
Leicester,  published  "  An  Enquiry  into  the  Obligations  of 
Christians,  to  use  Means  for  the  Conversion  of  the  Heathen  ; 
in  which  the  religious  State  of  the  different  Nations  of  the 
World,  the  Success  of  former  Undertakings,  and  the  Prac- 
ticability of  further  Undertakings — are  considered."  We 
beg  leave  to  recommend  the  perusal  of  this  well-meant 
pamphlet  to  our  readers  ;  and  to  remind  them  that  it 
derives  no  small  addition  of  value  from  this  consideration, 
that  the  author  "has  given  to  his  precepts  the  force  of 
example,"  by  becoming  a  missionary  himself,  and  is  now 
a  preacher  on  the  banks  of  the  Ganges. 


22     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

'  The  Rev.  Melville  Home  is  also  entitled  to  public  thanks 
for  his  "  Letters  on  Missions :  addressed  to  the  Protestant 
Ministers  of  the  British  Churches."     That  gentleman  has 
also  been  a  volunteer  in  the  service  ;  and  was.  for  a  time, 
chaplain  of  Sierra  Leone,  in  Africa  ;  and  though  he  declined 
the  arduous  task,  for  reasons  which  he  very  candidly  assigns, 
he  has  pleaded  the  cause  of  missions  in  a  manner  more 
masterly  and  spirited  than  any  of  his  predecessors.     He 
has  ably  detected  the  mistakes  which  have  too  often  occa- 
sioned the  miscarriage,  or  small  success,  of  former  attempts  : 
and,  taught  by  painful  experience,  has  pointed  out  a  more 
excellent  way.     We  most  sincerely  hope  that  this  bold  and 
zealous  production  will  have  the   most   beneficial  effects, 
both  in  promoting  and  directing  future  missions.     We  must 
refer  to  both  of  these  publications   for  answers  to  those 
objections  which  are  so  commonly  started  by  Laodicean 
professcrs.     W^e  must  not  dream  of  missions  destitute  of 
difficulties;  but  these  worthy  men  have  showed,  and  expe- 
rience has  abundantly  proved,  that  the  difficulties  are  not 
insuperable.     There   is   also  every  reason  to  believe  that 
they  may  be  lessened,  both  in  their  number  and  degree. 
But   were   it  otherwise,  ought  we   not   to  blush  at   being 
deterred  from  the  God-like  attempt  by  difficulties  scarcely 
considered  when  fame  or  worldly  gain  is  the  object?     The 
brave  officers  of  the  army  and  navy  hide  not  themselves  at 
home  in  inglorious  ease  and  safety  when  the  dangers  of 
their  country  call  them  to  the  camp  or  the  ocean.     Cook 
and  other  navigators  have  voluntarily  exposed  their  lives 
in  unknown   tracts,  in  fields  of  ice,  and  in  the  abodes  of 
savages.    Our  merchants  venture  into  the  burning  and  frozen 
regions,  and  trade  with  men  of  every  colour  and  clime,  for 
uncertain  riches.     And  are  there  not  yet  among  us  numbers 
of  ministers  and  pious  youths,  who  would  gladly  fly  to  the 
ends  of  the  earth,  bearing  with  them  the  glad  tidings  of 
salvation  ?     Let  us  but  make  the  trial,  and  it  will  assuredly 
be  crowned  with  success  ? 

*  Dear  brethren,  let  it  be  remembered  that  Britain,  Chris- 
tian Britain,  was  once  an  island  of  idolatrous  barbarians  ; 


MR.   BURDER'S  ADDRESS,  1795  23 

and  such  it  had  yet  remained,  unless  some  of  God's  dear 
people  in  distant  countries — (Oh  that  we  knew  their  names  ! 
We  shall  know  them  in  glory) — unless  they  had  formed 
the  benevolent  plan  of  sending  missionaries  hither.  Let  us 
in  return  '•  go  and  do  likewise."  Look  on  the  terrestrial 
globe.  Let  Africa,  Hindostan,  and  China  attract  your  notice. 
Behold  the  astonishing  clusters  of  the  South  Sea  Islands. 
Let  us  meet  for  prayer  and  consultation  ;  let  us  set  on  foot 
a  liberal  subscription  ;  let  us  look  out  for  preachers  of  an 
apostolic  spirit ;  let  them,  well  provided  for,  depart  in 
sufficient  numbers  to  strengthen  each  other's  hands ;  let 
them  cultivate  a  friendly  intercourse  with  the  natives,  and 
by  living  among  them  in  habits  of  friendship,  adopt  the 
most  prudent  means  of  leading  them  into  a  gradual 
acquaintance  with  the  glorious  truths  of  Revelation. 

'  Surely  such  an  attempt  as  this  will  be  acceptable  to  our 
God,  whether  it  meets  with  all  desirable  success  or  not. 
It  will  manifest,  at  least,  that  we  love  His  name  and 
prize  His  salvation  ;  and  He  will  say  to  us,  as  to  David, 
'•  Thou  didst  well  that  it  was  in  thine  heart."  This,  how- 
ever, we  are  sure  of,  that  all  endeavours  to  prevent  the 
spread  of  the  Gospel  are  extremely  provoking  to  Him. 
St.  Paul  .says  that  the  Jews  "filled  up  the  measure  of  their 
sins  by  forbidding  the  apostles  to  speak  to  the  Gentiles, 
that  they  might  be  saved  ;  and  thus  the  wrath  of  God  came 
upon  them  to  the  uttermost"  (i  Thess.  ii.  16).  By  parity, 
of  reason  we  may  justly  conclude,  that  it  is  highly  pleasing 
to  God,  that  they  who  have  tasted  that  He  is  gracious, 
should  exert  their  utmost  endeavours  to  convert  others. 
If  to  present  a  cup  of  cold  water  in  His  name  be  an  accept- 
able service,  surely  it  is  a  service  of  a  superior  nature  to 
present  the  cup  of  salvation. 

'Let  us  do  somctliing  imviediatcly.  Life  is  short.  Let 
us  "work,  while  it  is  called  to-day";  the  night  of  death 
approaches  ;  and  our  opportunities  of  being  useful  will 
close  for  ever.  "  Whatsoever  then  our  hands  find  to  do,  let 
us  do  it  with  all  our  might,"  and  that  without  delay. 

'  To  make  an  entrance  on  this  great  work,  we  beg  leave 


24     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

to  propose,  in  the  first  place,  that  Gospel-ministers  will 
take  the  pains  to  stir  up  their  respective  auditories  to 
a  more  close  and  serious  consideration  of  the  object  in 
view,  and  to  confer  with  them  upon  it.  We  then  wish  that 
some  estimate  may  be  formed  of  what  each  society  may  be 
able  and  ready  to  contribute  annually,  to  a  common  fund, 
without  injury  to  themselves  or  to  their  ministers.  This 
done,  we  earnestly  desire  that  a  minister,  or  some  other 
intelligent  person,  be  deputed  by  the  united  congregations 
of  each  county  or  counties  to  meet  in  London  as  soon  as 
possible  in  the  course  of  the  ensuing  summer,  there  to 
confer  in  a  solemn  manner  on  this  important  affair ;  and,  if 
the  attempt  be  resolved  upon,  to  choose  a  committee,  resi- 
dent in  London,  connected  with  corresponding  committees 
in  difterent  parts  of  the  country,  to  carry  the  plan  that  may 
then  be  adopted  into  execution,  as  soon  as  circumstances 
will  admit* 

As  a  consequence  of  these  appeals,  and  of  the  meetings  held 
at  the  Castle  and  Falcon,  it  was  resolved  to  hold  a  general 
meeting,  for  the  purpose  of  constituting  the  new  Society,  in 
London  on  August  i8,  19,  and  20,  and  three  ministers  were 
appointed  to  preach.  This  date  was  afterwards  altered  to 
September  22,  23,  and  24,  1795,  and  no  less  than  six 
ministers  were  appointed  to  preach.  The  official  notice 
convening  this  conference  was  signed  by  Joseph  Brooks- 
bank,  John  Eyre,  Samuel  Greatheed,  John  Love,  William 
F.  Piatt,  John  Reynolds,  William  Smith,  James  Steven, 
Alexander  Waugh,  Matthew  Wilks.  A  postscript  ran : 
'  N.B. — A  consultation  of  the  friends  of  the  institution  will 
be  held  at  the  Castle  and  Falcon,  Aldersgate  Street, 
at  six  o'clock,  on  the  Monday  evening  preceding  the 
general  meeting,  when  your  attendance  will  be  particularly 
acceptable.' 

Like  other  postcripts,  that  appended  to  the  notice  con- 
tained important  matter,  for  it  was  at  this  meeting,  on  the 
evening  of  September  21,  intended  to  be  merely  preparatory, 
that  the  Society  was  actually  founded.  A  very  large 
number  of  ministers  and  laymen  assembled.     Sir  Egerton 


GENERAL   MEETING,    SEPTEMBER  21,   1795        25 

Leigh'  was  placed  in  the  chair,  Mr.  Boden  of  Hanley 
(Independent),  prayed.  Mr.  Steven,  minister  of  Crown 
Court  Scotch  Church,  '  opened  the  business  of  the  meeting 
by  relating  what  steps  had  been  taken  to  bring  the 
Society  to  its  present  state.'  Mr.  Love,  the  acting 
secretary,  '  after  a  short  and  pertinent  preface,'  read  many 
letters,  promising  help  and  prayers ;  from  Mr.  Small  of 
Axminster,  on  behalf  of  the  Western  Association  of  twenty 
congregations,  Mr.  Tozer  of  Taunton,  Mr.  Border,  on 
behalf  of  the  Warwickshire  Association,  Mr.  Best  of 
Cradley,  Mr.  Heath  of  Rodborough,  Mr.  Mantill  of  West- 
bury,  Mr.  Alliot,  on  behalf  of  the  associated  churches  in 
Nottingham  and  Derby,  Mr.  Parry  of  Little  Baddow,  Essex, 
a  gentleman  of  Glasgow,  and  from  a  synod  of  Burgher 
Seceders  in  Scotland.  As  some  of  these  letters,  which  all 
promised  hearty  co-operation,  expressed  doubts  on  the 
subject  of  securing  missionaries,  Dr.  Haweis  (Church  of 
England)  next  set  forth  the  possibility  of  getting  mission- 
aries, and  read  some  striking  letters  which  had  been  already 
received  from  persons  willing  to  offer  themselves  for  the 
work  of  evangelizing  the  heathen. 

It  was  then  resolved,  with  perfect  unanimity,  '  that  it  is 
the  opinion  of  this  meeting,  that  the  establishment  of  a 
society  for  sending  Missionaries  to  the  heathen  and  unen- 
lightened countries  is  highly  desirable.'  The  Rev.  John 
Eyre,  in  words  broken  by  his  joyous  emotions,  then  read 
the  sketch  of  a  '  plan  '  prepared  by  the  committee,  as  proper 
to  be  submitted  to  the  general  meeting  the  next  day,  which 
was  approved.  The  devotion  and  the  enthusiasm  exhibited  at 
this  meeting  were  very  marked,  and  all  hearts  were  full  of 
thankfulness  and  hope.  A  subscription  list  was  opened, '  and 
the  liberal  contributions  and  annual  subscriptions  of  that 
evening  sufficiently  demonstrated  that  this  excellent  cause 
would  never  fail  for  want  of  pecuniary  assistance.'  The 
Rev.  Rowland  Hilk  of  Surrey  Chapel,  closed  with  prayer. 

'  For  details  of  this  pood  man's  life,  and  of  his  evangelistic  work  in  the 
Midlands,  see  htdependcncy  in  Warwickshire,  Sibrec  and  Caston,  1855, 
PP-   393-398. 


26     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

On  Tuesday  morning,  September  22,  at  ten  o'clock, 
a  large  congregation  assembled  in  the  old  Spa  Fields 
Chapel  belonging  to  the  Countess  of  Huntingdon's  Con- 
nexion. More  than  two  hundred  ministers  were  present. 
Mr.  Kirkman  read  the  prayers.  Mr.  Sibree,  of  Frome,  gave 
out  the  hymn  '  O'er  those  gloomy  hills  of  darkness,'  and  so 
great  was  the  excitement,  we  are  told,  that  many  broke 
out  into  sobs  and  tears.  Dr.  Haweis  prayed  ;  Mr.  Leggatt, 
of  Strood,  gave  out  the  hymn  '  Captain  of  Thine  enlisted 
host/  and  then  Dr.  Haweis  preached  from  the  great 
missionary  text,  Mark  xvi.  15,  16,  'And  He  said  unto 
them,  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  Gospel  to 
every  creature.  He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be 
saved  ;  but  he  that  believeth  not  shall  be  damned.' 

A  passage  or  two  from  the  introduction  to  the  discourse 
will  help  us  to  appreciate  the  conditions  under  which  the 
Society  came  into  being. 

'  It  is  with  thankfulness  and  delight,'  began  the  preacher, 
'  that  I  look  round  on  this  great  congregation,  assembled  for 
the  noblest  purposes  that  can  interest  the  best  feelings  of  the 
human  heart.  No  schemes  of  worldly  advantage — no  pro- 
jects of  vain  ambition — no  selfish  ends  or  aims — contaminate 
our  views.  Nor  will  the  confused  noise  of  the  warrior,  or 
garments  rolled  in  blood,  mark  our  progress.  We  meet 
under  the  conduct  of  the  Prince  of  Peace,  and,  unfurling 
the  banner  of  His  cross,  desire  to  carry  the  glad  tidings  of 
His  salvation  to  the  distant  lands,  deep  sunk  in  heathen 
darkness,  and  covered  with  the  shadow  of  death.  The 
petty  distinctions  among  us,  of  names  and  forms  ;  the 
diversities  of  administrations,  and  modes  of  church  order, 
we  agree,  shall  this  day  all  be  merged  in  the  greater,  nobler, 
and  characteristic  name  of  Christians  ;  and  our  one  ambition 
be,  to  promote  no  partial  interests,  since  Christ  is  not 
divided,  but  with  united  efforts  to  make  known  abroad 
the  glory  of  His  person — the  perfection  of  His  work — the 
wonders  of  His  grace — and  the  transcendent  blessings  of 
His  redemption — where  His  adorable  name  hath  never  yet 
been   heard  ;    but   the  god   of  this   world  still  reigns    the 


SERMON  BY  DR.  H AWE  IS  27 

uncontrolled    tyrant    over    the    bodies    and    the    souls    of 
men.' 

The  preacher  then  proceeded  to  consider — i.  Where  we 
must  go.  2.  Who  are  to  be  sent.  3.  What  they  must 
preach.  4.  The  result  of  their  mission.  Under  the  first 
head  he  clearly  sets  forth  that  the  field  is  the  world,  and 
that,  in  his  judgement,  the  most  hopeful  part  to  begin  with 
is  Polynesia.  Under  the  second  he  sets  forth  his  views 
upon  the  education  of  missionaries — views  not  without 
advocates  in  these  days,  and  yet  the  experience  of  the 
century  is,  on  the  whole,  adverse  to  and  not  corroborative 
of  them. 

'  But,  secondly,  zvhom  shall  zve  se7id,  and  who  will  go  for 
us  ?  I  answer,  such  as  the  Lord  hath  prepared  and  quali- 
fied for  the  arduous  task.  Men,  whose  lives  are  not  dear 
unto  themselves,  but  ready  to  spend  and  be  spent  in  the 
honourable  service.  Men,  really  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
to  devote  themselves  to  the  work, — not  daring  blasphemously 
in  the  face  of  God  and  the  congregation  to  make  such 
a  confession,  merely  to  procure  a  mission  from  man,  and 
pave  the  way  to  honour  and  emolument  over  a  conscience 
that  knows  it  hath  lied  to  the  Holy  Ghost. — Men,  who  have 
an  internal  evidence  of  the  Spirit,  ivitnessing^  zvith  their 
spirits^  that  they  are  the  children  of  God  \  —a  divine  ardour, 
prompting  them  to  prefer  the  salvation  of  men's  souls  to 
every  earthly  consideration, — and  to  determine  on  this 
pursuit,  in  the  face  of  every  difficulty  and  danger  which 
may  attend  it.  Such  are  the  men  the  great  Shepherd 
and  Bishop  of  Souls  sends,  such  are  the  instruments  we 
must  seek. 

'  Nor  need  we  despair  of  finding  them,  if  not  in  the 
schools  of  learning,  or  the  seminaries  of  theology,  yet 
among  the  faithful,  in  our  several  congregations. 

'  Not  that  I  think  lightly  of  the  advantages  of  education, 
or  despise  attainments  of  learning  of  any  kind.  Few  have 
been  found  more  indefatigable  in  the  pursuit  of  these 
acquirements  than  some  whom  I  am  now  addressing,  and  if 
we  are  treated  with  insolent  contempt  by  those  who  imagine 


28     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

themselves  the  only  wise  and  learned,  we  have  to  regret 
that  our  abilities  have  not  equalled  our  application. 

*  But  here  also  God  hath  in  His  hands  the  hearts  of  all 
men.  There  may  be  found  among  the  sons  of  the  Prophets 
some  who,  glorying  in  the  cross,  will  feel  it  their  privilege 
to  lift  up  the  standard,  and  proclaim  the  crucified  Lord  to 
their  fellow  sinners  of  the  heathen.  Not  that  the  know- 
ledge of  the  dead  languages,  however  desirable,  is  essential 
to  the  communication  of  Gospel  truth  in  the  living  ones. 
A  plain  man, — with  a  good  natural  understanding, — well 
read  in  the  Bible, — full  of  faith,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost, — 
though  he  comes  from  the  forge  or  the  shop,  would,  I  own, 
in  my  view,  as  a  missionary  to  the  heathen,  be  infinitely 
preferable  to  all  the  learning  of  the  schools  ;  and  would 
possess,  in  the  skill  and  labour  of  his  hands,  advantages 
which  barren  science  would  never  compensate. 

'  But  who  shall  judge  of  the  qualifications  of  missionaries  ? 
I  reply,  such  as  have  themselves  been  taught  of  God  ;  and 
whose  age  and  experience^  in  the  good  ways  of  our  Saviour, 
enable  them  to  discern  between  the  ebullitions  of  mistaken 
zeal  and  the  deliberate  devotedness  of  one  truly  sent  and 
moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 

'  I  am,  my  brethren,  an  Episcopalian,  and  by  choice,  as 
by  education,  attached  to  the  Established  Church,  and  wish 
to  see  her  a  glory  in  the  earth  ;  and  I  am  persuaded  there 
is  not  one  of  you,  my  friends,  of  whatever  denomination, 
but  would  delight  therein.  Yet  I  am  no  bigot.  I  neither 
suppose  salvation  restricted  to  her  pale,  nor  the  approbation 
of  her  rulers,  however  desirable,  essential  to  an  evangelical 
mission.  Indeed,  it  is  an  axiom,  to  which  every  real  Chris- 
tian will  accede,  that  no  dignity  of  office,  whether  Bishop 
or  Archbishop,  nor  a  whole  Presbytery,  however  wise  or 
learned,  if  they  have  not  themselves  experienced  the  divine 
call,  and  been  inwardly  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  take 
the  sacred  ministry  upon  them  (and  the  great  Shepherd 
and  Bishop  of  Souls  hath  already  pronounced  that  other- 
wise He  will  regard  them  as  thieves  and  robbers),  such 
men,  I  say,  can  be  no  more  capable  of  judging  the  qualifi- 


THE  FIRST  BUSINESS  MEETING  29 

cations  of  a  missionary,  than  the  stupid  Omiah  to  solve  the 
most  difficult  proposition  in  Euclid,  or  a  deaf  man  to  decide 
on  the  beauty  of  harmonical  composition.' 

As  to  the  message — 

'  We  appeal  to  the  experience  of  all  ages,  what  ever  did, 
or  ever  can  control  the  unruly  wills  and  affections  of  sinful 
men,  but  the  preaching  the  cross  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  ; 
by  whom,  saith  St.  Paul,  ^/le  zvorld  is  crucified  imto  me^  and 
I  tinto  the  world.  Without  this,  what  could  a  missionary 
effect  in  a  heathen  land  ?  How  poor,  how  unavailing  would 
be  all  the  weapons  of  vain  philosophy  and  false  Christianity  ? 
Imbclle  tehiin  sine  ictii.  Brethren,  our  whole  success  will 
depend  upon  this  one  point ; — if  Christ  be  preached, — only 
preached,  always  preached, — then  shall  we  see  the  power 
of  His  death  and  resurrection,  and  the  Lord  will  add  again 
daily  to  His  cJmrch  of  siicJi  as  shall  be  saved.' 

The  sermon  closes  with  this  appeal :  — 

*  We  know  the  time  approaches  when  Ethiopia  and  Saba 
shall  stretch  out  their  hands  unto  God  :  when  "  the  ends  of 
the  earth  shall  remember  themselves,  and  be  turned  unto 
the  Lord,  and  all  flesh  shall  see  the  salvation  of  our  God." 
From  which  extremity  of  the  earth  the  lightning  shall  flash, 
we  know  not;  but  one  thing  we  know,  that  when  the 
blessed  period  fixed  in  His  eternal  counsels  arrives,  He  will 
provide  the  means,  and  raise  up  the  instruments,  to  fulfil 
all  His  pleasure.  We  hope  He  will  favour  and  graciously 
accept  our  humble  efforts  to  this  end,  and  cause  many  to 
say,  "  Here  am  I,  Lord,  send  me."  It  would  take  up  too 
much  of  your  time  at  present  to  suggest  the  steps  most 
eligible  to  be  pursued.  These  will  be  the  subject  of  repeated 
consideration,  and  matured  by  the  united  wisdom  of  a  body 
far  superior  to  any  individual.  In  one  thing  only  I  indulge 
the  fullest  confidence,  that  nothing  will  be  wanting  to  fur- 
nish every  necessary  supply  for  a  numerous  mission.  "  The 
silver  and  the  gold  are  thine."  These  have  often  been 
lavished  by  our  fellow  citizens  to  procure  luxuries  from  the 
ends  of  the  earth  ;  and  sometimes  more  fearfully  to  deluge 
the  world  with  blood.     Let  us  teach  them  a  nobler  use  of 


30     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

riches,  and  procure  for  ourselves  greater  indulgences,  the 
luxury  of  doing  good  ;  and.  instead  of  destroying  men's 
bodies,  employ  them  to  save  their  souls.' 

At  the  close  of  the  sermon  the  hymn  beginning 

From  all  that  dwell  below  the  skies 

was  sung,  and  Mr.  Lambert,  of  Hull,  concluded  the  service 
with  prayer.  All  persons  desirous  of  joining  the  new 
society  were  asked  to  assemble  in  the  area  of  the  chapel. 
But  so  great  was  the  interest  that  hardly  an  individual  in 
the  great  audience  moved.  The  Rev.  Thomas  Kingsbury, 
of  Southampton,  having  been  called  upon  to  preside, 
offered  prayer.  The  Rev.  George  Burder  was  appointed 
secretary  for  the  day.  After  an  address  by  the  Rev.  John 
Eyre,  a  committee  consisting  of  Thomas  Haweis,  Rowland 
Hill,  John  Eyre,  Samuel  Greatheed,  John  Hey,  George 
Lambert,  David  Bogue,  James  Steven,  Alexander  Waugh, 
John  Reynolds,  John  Love,  John  Saltern,  and  Thomas 
Kingsbury  were  appointed  to  bring  forward  the  plan  of 
the  Society.  They  retired  to  consider  this  document, 
which  had  already  been  practically  settled  in  previous 
discussions,  and  during  their  absence  Matthew  Wilks 
presided,  gave  out  the  hymn 

Indulgent  God,  to  Thee  we  pray, 

and  delivered  a  congratulatory  address. 

The  committee  soon  returned  and  presented  the  following 
constitution  :  — 

PLAN  OF  THE  SOCIETY. 

L  The  Name— The  MISSIONARY  Society. 

H.  T/ie  Object — The  sole  object  is  to  spread  the  know- 
ledge of  Christ  among  heathen  and  other  unenlightened 
nations. 

HL  The  Members — Persons  subscribing  one  guinea  or 
more  annually  ;  every  benefactor  making  a  donation  of  ten 
pounds ;  one  of  the  executors,  on  the  payment  of  a  legacy 
amounting  to  fifty  pounds  or  upwards;  and  ministers,  or 
other  representatives  of  congregations  in  the  country,  which 


ORIGINAL   PLAN  OF  THE  SOCIETY  31 

subscribe  or  collect  for  the  use  of  the  Society  fifty  pounds 
annually. 

IV.  General  Meetings — To  be  held  annually  in  London 
on  the  second  Wednesday  of  May,  and  oftener  if  necessary, 
to  choose  a  treasurer,  directors,  secretary,  and  collectors, 
and  to  receive  reports,  audit  accounts,  and  deliberate  on 
what  farther  steps  may  best  promote  the  object  of  the 
Society.  At  every  such  meeting  one  sermon,  or  more,  shall 
be  preached  by  one  or  more  of  the  associated  ministers, 
and  notice  given  as  is  usual  on  such  occasions  ;  the  president 
for  the  day  shall  open  and  conclude  the  meeting  with 
prayer,  and  sign  the  minutes  of  the  proceedings.  All 
matters  proposed  shall  be  determined  by  the  majority  of 
the  members  present. 

V.  The  Direction — To  consist  of  as  many  directors 
annually  chosen  out  of  its  members  as  circumstances  may 
require.  At  the  first  meeting  twenty-five  shall  be  elected, 
with  power  to  associate  with  themselves  such  an  additional 
member  as  may  be  judged  by  them  expedient,  when  the 
extent  of  the  Society  is  ascertained.  Three-fifths,  and  no 
more,  of  these  directors  shall  reside  in  or  near  London  ; 
where  all  monthly  meetings  shall  be  held  for  transacting  the 
business  of  the  Society.  Not  less  than  seven  shall  con- 
stitute a  board.  For  greater  facility  and  expedition  they 
may  subdivide  into  committees,  for  managing  the  funds, 
conducting  the  correspondence,  making  reports,  examining 
missionaries,  directing  the  missions,  &c. ;  but  no  act  of 
these  committees  shall  be  valid  till  ratified  at  a  monthly 
meeting.  No  expenditure  exceeding  ;^ico  shall  be  made 
without  consulting  all  the  directors,  or  ^^500  without  calling 
a  general  meeting  of  the  subscribers.  Annual  subscribers 
of  i^io  or  upwards,  and  benefactors  of  ;^ioo  and  more,  may 
attend,  if  they  please,  with  the  directors,  at  any  of  the 
monthly  meetings.  On  any  emergency  the  directors  shall 
call  a  general  meeting  of  the  Society,  to  whom  their  arrange- 
ments shall  be  submitted  :  nor  shall  they  enter  upon 
a  new  mission  till  they  obtain  the  general  concurrence. 

VI.  The  Funds— Arising  from  donations,  legacies,  sub- 


32     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

scriptions,  collections,  &c.,  shall  be  lodged,  as  soon  as 
collected,  in  the  hands  of  the  treasurer.  The  directors 
shall  place  in  the  public  funds  all  monies  so  paid,  whenever 
they  exceed  ;^30o,  until  they  are  required  for  the  use  of 
the  mission  ;  excepting  it  appears  to  them  prejudicial  to 
the  interests  of  the  Society. 

VII.  Salaries— The  secretary  shall  receive  such  a  salary 
as  the  directors  may  appoint :  but  the  directors  themselves 
shall  transact  the  business  of  the  Society  without  any 
emolument. 

This  was  approved,  and  at  three  o'clock  the  meeting 
adjourned. 

In  the  evening  a  sermon  was  preached  by  the  Rev. 
George  Burder,  of  Coventry,  in  Crown  Court  Meeting 
House,  Covent  Garden.  A  contemporary  account  tells  us 
that  '  before  the  commencement  it  was  crowded  to  such 
a  degree  as  to  prevent  a  considerable  number  of  ministers 
from  gaining  access  to  the  doors.  So  great  was  the  pres- 
sure of  the  people  as  to  excite  apprehension  that  Mr.  Burder 
would  be  unable  to  proceed  ;  but  to  our  agreeable  disap- 
pointment he  had  no  sooner  begun  his  discourse  than  the 
most  serious  and  pleasing  attention  pervaded  the  whole 
congregation.'  The  sermon  was  preached  from  Jonah  iii.  2, 
*  Arise,  go  unto  Nineveh,  that  great  city,  and  preach  unto 
it  the  preaching  that  I  bid  thee.'  Mr.  Hey,  of  Bristol, 
Mr.  Waugh,  of  London,  and  Mr.  Parsons,  of  Leeds,  took 
part  in  the  service.  At  the  close,  Mr.  Kingsbury  again 
presided  ;  the  plan  of  the  Society  was  read  aloud,  and  the 
committee  who  had  prepared  it  were  requested  to  nominate 
a  list  of  gentlemen  to  serve  as  directors. 

On  Wednesday,  September  23,  at  ten  in  the  morning, 
service  was  held  at  the  Haberdashers'  Hall  Meeting  House, 
when  a  sermon  was  preached  by  the  Rev.  Samuel  Great- 
heed,  of  Newport  Pagnell,  from  Luke  x.  29,  '  And  who  is 
my  neighbour?'  The  other  ministers  taking  part  were 
Mr.  Lowell,  of  Woodbridge,  Mr.  Sloper,  of  Devizes, 
Mr.  Saltern^  of  Bridport,  Mr.  Herdman,  of  South  Petherton, 


BUSINESS  MEETING  AT  SURREY  CHAPEL       33 

Mr.  Smelle,  of  Great  Grimsby,  and  Mr.  Whitridge,  of  Oswes- 
try. At  the  close  of  the  service  a  second  business  meeting 
was  held,  over  which  Dr.  Hunter,  of  the  Scotch  Church, 
London  Wall,  presided,  and  a  list  of  twenty-five  Directors 
were  nommated. 

'A  vast  congregation  assembled  in  the  evening  at  the 
Tabernacle  an  hour  before  the  appointed  time.  Thousands 
are  said  to  have  gone  away  unable  to  get  in.  The  front 
seats  of  the  four  extensive  galleries,  containing  room  for 
one  hundred  and  fifty  persons,  were  occupied  wholly  by 
ministers ;  besides  whom  many  others  were  dispersed 
through  the  congregation.'  The  Rev.  J.  Hey,  of  Bristol, 
preached  from  Eph.  i.  10,  '  That  in  the  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times  He  might  gather  together  in  one  all 
things  in  Christ,  both  which  are  in  heaven,  and  which  are 
on  earth  ;  even  in  Him.'  The  other  ministers  taking  part 
were  Mr.  Slatterie,  of  Chatham,  Mr.  Ralph,  of  Maidstone, 
Mr.  Jay,  of  Bath,  Mr.  Rooker,  of  Goldhill,  Mr.  Beaufoy,  of 
Long  Sutton,  and  Mr.  Townsend,  of  Ramsgate.  After  the 
service,  Matthew  Wilks  read  the  names  of  the  Directors. 

On  Thursday  morning,  September  24, 1795,  the  ministers 
assembled  between  8  and  9  a.m.  in  the  schoolroom  con- 
nected with  Surrey  Chapel.  They  discussed  the  financial 
prospects  of  the  Society,  and  then  Matthew  Wilks  proposed 
that  the  first  attempt  of  the  Society  should  be  to  send 
missionaries  to  the  South  Seas.  Dr.  Haweis  was  asked  to 
speak  on  this  subject  at  the  close  of  the  morning  service, 
and  gave  in  the  name  of  one  volunteer  ready  to  go  ; 
Mr.  Bogue  mentioned  another,  and  seven  names  in  all  were 
registered.  Service  began  at  ten  o'clock.  Another  very 
large  congregation  assembled,  and  the  sermon  was  preached 
by  Rowland  Hill  from  Matt.  xxiv.  14, 'And  this  Gospel 
of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world  for 
a  witness  unto  all  nations  :  and  then  shall  the  end  come.' 
Mr.  Percy,  of  London,  read  prayers  ;  and  Mr.  Wood,  of 
Rowell,  Mr.  Griffin,  of  Portsea,  Mr.  Audley,  of  Cambridge, 
Mr.  Douglas,  of  Newmarket,  and  Mr.  Ray,  of  Sudbury, 
took  part.     Then  Dr.  Haweis,  '  in  a  speech  of  considerable 

I.  D 


34    ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

length:  assigned  various  reasons  for  making  the  first 
missionary  attempt  among  the  inhabitants  of  the  South 
Sea  Islands.'  In  the  course  of  this  speech  he  referred  to 
Captain  Wilson's  offer  of  service  and  to  his  very  remark- 
able history. 

The  last  of  this  great  series  of  public  services  was  held 
at  Tottenham  Court  Road  Chapel  on  Thursday  evening 
Mr.  Edwards,  curate  of  the  chapel,  read  prayers.  Mr. 
Jefferson,  of  Basingstoke,  Mr.  Cook,  of  Maidenhead,  and 
Mr.  Colder,  of  Croydon,  took  part ;  Mr.  Bogue  preached 
from  Hag.  i.  2.  '  Thus  speaketh  the  Lord  of  hosts,  saying, 
This  people  say,  The  time  is  not  come,  the  time  that  the 
Lord's  house  should  be  built.' 

Mr.  Bogue  set  himself  the  task  of  dealing  with  the 
various  objections  which  had  been  urged  against  the  new 
Society.  They  are  instructive,  since  they  indicate  the 
feeling  on  this  subject  one  hundred  years  ago,  and  they 
show,  moreover,  that  so  far  as  some  of  these  objections  are 
concerned,  although  the  original  holders  of  them  have  long 
since  departed,  their  children  are  with  us  to  this  day.  The 
preacher  classified  them  as  follows  : — 

*  I.  The  work  itself  is  so  very  arduous  that  success  cannot 
be  hoped  for. 

'  2.  The  time  for  the  conversion  of  the  heathen  is  not  yet 
come,  because  the  millennium  is  still  at  the  distance  of 
some  hundred  years. 

*  0.  What  is  there  in  the  state  of  the  Christian  Church  at 
present  that  flatters  with  peculiar  hopes  of  success  for 
a  mission  to  the  heathen  ?  Many  ages  have  elapsed  and 
little  has  been  done  ;  what  makes  the  time  now  so  favour- 
able ?     Are  we  better  than  our  fathers  ? 

'  4.  The  governments  of  the  world  will  oppose  the  execu- 
tion of  the  Society's  plans,  and  defeat  its  design. 

'  5.  The  present  state  of  the  heathen  world  is  so  un- 
favourable with  respect  to  religion  that  little  hope  can  be 
entertained  of  success. 

'  6.  How  and  where  shall  we  find  proper  persons  to 
undertake  the  arduous  work  of  missionaries  to  the  heathen  ? 


MR.  BOGUE'S  SERMON  35 

'7.  Whence  will  the  Society  and  the  missionaries  be  able 
to  find  support  ? 

'  8.  There  is  no  door  opened  by  Providence  for  the 
entrance  of  the  Gospel.  We  should  wait  till  such  an  event 
takes  place,  and  then  diligently  improve  it. 

'  9.  What  right  have  we  to  interfere  with  the  religion  of 
others  ? 

'  10.  We  have  heathen  enough  at  home,  let  us  convert 
them  first  befor^  we  go  abroad.' 

Two  passages  in  the  sermon  are  of  special  interest.  The 
first  refers  to  the  constitution  of  the  Society,  and  is  a 
portion  of  the  preacher's  answer  to  the  third  objection  he 
deals  with  : — 

*  In  the  present  century,  the  nature  of  the  Church  of 
Christ,  as  a  spiritual  kingdom,  and  not  of  the  world,  has 
been  better  understood  than  it  ever  was  since  the  days 
of  Constantine  ;  and  Christians  have  felt  their  obligations 
to  send  the  Gospel  to  the  heathen  nations.  Some  efforts 
have  been  made  by  different  sects,  but,  with  one  exception, 
feeble  in  comparison  of  what  might  have  been  ;  and  I  know 
not  that  any  denomination  has  missionaries  among  the 
heathen,  much  exceeding  in  number  the  apostles  of  our 
Lord.  Every  one,  however,  who  is  awake,  hails  with  joy 
the  dawning  of  a  bright  day  of  true  Christian  zeal  for  the 
spreading  of  the  Gospel  in  the  world,  and  salutes  with 
affection  the  various  societies  engaged  in  this  divine  work. 
We  have  now  before  us  a  pleasing  spectacle,  Christians 
of  different  denominations,  although  differing  in  points  of 
church  government,  united  in  forming  a  society  for  pro- 
pagating the  Gospel  among  the  heathen.  This  is  a  new 
thing  in  the  Christian  Church.  Some  former  societies  have 
accepted  donations  from  men  of  different  denominations  ; 
but  the  government  was  confined  to  one.  But  here  are 
Episcopalians,  Methodists,  Presbyterians,  and  Independents, 
all  united  in  one  society,  all  joining  to  form  its  laws,  to 
regulate  its  institutions,  and  manage  its  various  concerns. 
Behold  us  here  assembled  with  one  accord  to  attend  the 
funeral  of  bigotry  :  and  may  she  be  buried  so  deep  that  not 

D  2 


36     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

a  particle  of  her  dust  may  ever  be  thrown  up  on  the  face  of 
the  earth.  I  could  almost  add,  cursed  be  the  man  who 
shall  attempt  to  raise  her  from  the  grave/ 

The  other  is  the  peroration,  of  which  we  quote  the  begin- 
ning and  the  close  : — 

'  Why  should  we  be  cast  down  at  the  prospect  of  diffi- 
culties in  the  way?  Let  our  whole  dependence  be  placed 
in  the  wisdom,  power,  and  grace  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
He  can  exalt  every  valley,  level  every  mountain  and  hill, 
make  the  way  to  places  plain,  and  the  crooked  straight; 
and  by  removing  every  stumbling-block  prepare  the  rough 
for  His  servants,  and  make  the  triumph  of  the  cross  glorious 
in  the  eyes  of  the  nations  of  the  earth.  To  attempt  is 
noble.  To  fail  here  is  more  honourable  than  to  succeed  in 
most  other  pursuits.  Should  we  fail  of  success,  while  we 
may  be  grieved  that  the  heathen  are  still  to  remain  in  dark- 
ness, we  shall  have  no  reason  to  repent  of  our  undertaking. 
Will  the  future  part  of  our  life  roll  on  more  unhappy  or 
disreputable,  because  we  attempted  without  effect  to  extend 
the  boundaries  of  the  kingdom  of  Jesus  Christ?  Will 
it  tinge  our  cheeks  with  shame,  when  we  are  laid  upon  a 
death-bed,  that  we  were  strenuously  engaged  in  an  unsuc- 
cessful effort  to  spread  the  knowledge  of  Christ  among 
the  heathen  ?  or  will  it  cover  us  with  blushes,  when  we 
approach  the  throne  of  God  at  the  judgment,  to  have  it 
said  by  an  attending  spirit,  "  That  man  was  an  ardent 
supporter  of  an  unsuccessful  society,  whose  object  was  to 
bring  the  heathen  to  seek  salvation  through  the  blood  of 
the  Redeemer's  cross."  But  I  hope  better  things,  even  the 
success  of  our  plan  for  the  salvation  of  the  heathen,  though 
I  thus  speak. 

*  This  year  will,  I  hope,  form  an  history  in  the  epoch  of 
man;  and  from  this  day  by  our  exertions,  and  by  the 
exertions  of  others  whom  we  shall  provoke  to  zeal,  the 
kingdom  of  Jesus  Christ  shall  be  considerably  enlarged  both 
at  home  and  abroad,  and  continue  to  increase  "  till  the  know- 
ledge of  God  cover  the  earth  as  the  waters  cover  the  sea." 
When   we  left  our  homes,  we  expected   to  see   a  day  of 


ENTHUSIASM  OF  THE  FOUNDERS  37 

small  things,  which  it  was  our  design  not  to  despise,  but  to 
cherish  with  fond  solicitude.  But  God  has  beyond  measure 
exceeded  our  expectations :  He  has  made  a  little  one  a 
thousand,  and  has  inspired  us  with  the  most  exalted  hopes. 
Now  we  do  not  think  ourselves  in  danger  of  being  mistaken 
when  we  say  that  we  shall  account  it  through  eternity 
a  distinguished  favour,  and  the  highest  honour  conferred  on 
us  during  our  pilgrimage  on  earth,  that  we  appeared  here 
and  gave  in  our  names  among  the  Fotinders  of  the  Missionary 
Society,  and  the  time  will  be  ever  remembered  by  us,  and 
may  it  be  celebrated  by  future  ages,  as  the  era  of  Christian 
benevolence.' 

After  the  sermon,  Mr.  Thresher,  of  Abingdon,  gave  out 
the  hymn, '  All  hail  the  power  of  Jesus'  name.'  Mr.  Crole, 
of  London,  prayed,  and  Mr.  J.  A.  Knight,  of  London, 
'  closed  with  a  short  exhortation.' 

'  Thus  concluded  the  solemn  services  of  the  conference, 
long,  long  to  be  remembered  by  thousands ;  all  appearing 
to  unite  in  this  sentiment,  it  was  never  so  seeii  in  our  Israel. 
Some  of  the  ministers  present  on  Monday  evening,  finding 
so  large  an  assembly  pass  a  resolution  with  cheerful  unani- 
mity, that  a  inissio7tary  society  was  desirable^  could  not,  for 
a  time,  proceed  for  tears  of  joy. 

'  The  grandest  object  that  ever  occupied  the  human 
mind, — the  salvation  of  souls, — was  presented  in  such 
a  variety  of  views,  and  in  so  striking  a  manner,  by  the 
preachers,  that  every  serious  person  awoke  as  from  a  dream, 
filled  with  surprise  that  so  noble  a  design  had  never  before 
been  attempted  by  them,  and  longing,  by  future  exertions, 
to  redeem  lost  opportunities.  Many  ministers,  who  before 
doubted  whether  the  Lord's  time  for  such  an  attempt  were 
come,  are  now  completely  satisfied,  and  join  with  equal 
ardour  in  a  cause  so  glorious.  The  great  number  who 
attended  as  delegates  from  various  parts  of  the  kingdom, 
the  multitudes  who  thronged  the  largest  places  in  London, 
the  countenance  and  liberal  donations  of  the  wealthy,  the 
appearance  of  so  many  ministers  in  one  place,  and  in  so 
conspicuous  a  situation,   were  grand   and  pleasing.     The 


38     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

suitableness  of  the  hymns,  and  the  fervour  with  which  they 
were  sung,  and,  above  all,  the  most  evident  and  uncommon 
outpouring  of  the  Spirit  on  the  ministers,  in  their  sermons, 
exhortations,  and  prayers,  impressed  the  whole  congregation 
with  a  solemnity  and  pleasure  not  usual  even  in  rehgious 
assemblies,  and  constrained  them  all  to  say,  This  is  a  new 
Pentecost ;  nor  was  it  a  doubt  with  any  whether  the  Lord 
was  among  us  or  not. 

'Another  consideration  that  rendered  these  seasons 
unspeakably  delightful  was  the  visible  union  of  ministers 
and  Christians  of  all  denominations  ;  who,  for  the  first 
time,  forgetting  their  party  prejudices  and  partialities, 
assembled  in  the  same  place,  sang  the  same  hymns,  united 
in  the  same  prayers,  and  felt  themselves  one  in  Christ. 
This  sentiment  was  so  universal,  that  when  Mr.  Bogue,  in 
the  course  of  his  sermon,  said,  "  we  are  called  together  this 
evening  to  the  funeral  of  bigotry,  and  he  hoped  it  would  be 
buried  so  deep  as  never  to  rise  again,"  the  whole  vast  body 
of  people  manifested  their  concurrence,  and  could  scarcely 
refrain  from  one  general  shout  of  joy.  Such  a  scene  was, 
perhaps,  never  before  beheld  in  our  world,  and  afforded 
a  glorious  earnest  of  that  nobler  assembly,  where  we  shall 
meet  all  the  redeemed,  and  in  the  presence  and  before  the 
throne  of  the  Lamb  shall  sing,  as  in  the  last  hymn  of  the 
service.  Crown  Him,  crown  Him,  crown  Him  Lord  of  all !  ^ ' 

On  Friday  evening,  September  25,  1795,  the  last  of  this 
series  of  remarkable  meetings  was  held.  It  was  a  general 
meeting,  convened,  as  that  on  the  Monday  evening  had 
been,  for  business,  and  was  held  at  the  Castle  and  Falcon. 
The  Rev.  W.  Percy,  of  Greenwich,  was  in  the  chair. 
Mr.  Joseph  Hardcastle,  Duck's-foot  Lane,  Thames  Street, 
was  elected  Treasurer,  and  the  gentlemen  appointed  who 
formed  the  first  Board  of  Directors.  It  was  then  decided 
that  the  first  attempt  should  be  to  send  missionaries  to 
*  Otaheite,  or  some  other  of  the  islands  of  the  South  Sea.' 
The  Directors,  if  they  saw  their  way  to  prepare  a  mission 

'  Evajigelical  Magazine,  1795,  pp.  424,  425. 


THE  FIRST  BOARD   OF  DIRECTORS  39 

before  the  next  general  meeting  in  May,  1796,  were 
empowered  to  spend  all  moneys  needful  for  that  purpose. 
It  was  further  resolved  '  that  missions  be  attempted  to  the 
Pelew  Islands  or  Sumatra ;  to  the  Coromandel  coast ;  to 
Tartary  by  Astracan,  and  to  the  coast  of  Africa  from 
Sierra  Leone,  as  may  be  found  most  advisable  from  cir- 
cumstances.' 

'  The  Rev.  James  Knight  suggested  the  propriety  of 
instituting  a  prayer  meeting  in  reference  to  the  important 
concerns  of  this  Society,  to  be  holden  once  a  month.  This 
proposal  was  cordially  approved,  and  referred  to  the  Direc- 
tors to  be  considered  and  digested  by  them  as  circumstances 
may  require.' 

The  first  Board  of  Directors  was  composed  of  the  fol- 
lowing gentlemen,  twenty  ministers  and  fourteen  laymen  : — 

Mr.  J.  Alday,  Carlisle  Street,  J.  Hardcastle,  Plsq.,  Duck's- 

Soho.  foot  Lane. 

J.    Audley,    Esq..    of    Cam-  Rev.  R.  Hill,  A.M.,  Surrey 

bridge.  Chapel. 

Rev.  James  Boden,  Hanley  Rev.  T.  Haweis,  LL.B.,M.D., 

Green.  Staffordshire.  Aldwinkle. 

Rev.  D.  Bogue^  A.M.,  Gos-  Rev.  John  Hey,  Bristol. 

port.  Rev.  George  Lambert,  Hull. 

Rev.    Joseph     Brooksb^nk,  Sir  Eger.  Leigh,  Bart.,  War- 

Newington  Green.  wickshire. 
Rev.  George  Burder,  Coven-  Rev.  Herbert    Mends,   Ply- 
try,  mouth. 
Robert  Cowie,  Esq.,  Isljng-  J.    Neale,    Esq.,    St.    Paul's 

ton.  Churchyard. 

Mr.  R.  Campbell,  Marybone  Rev.  W.  F.  Piatt,  Holywell 

Street.  Mount. 

Rev.  John  Eyre,  A.M.,  Hack-  Rev. Edward  Parsons,  Leeds. 

ney.  Rev.  John  Mead  Ray,  Sud- 

S.  Foyster,  Esq.,  Tottenham  bury. 

Street.  Rev.  J.    Reynolds,    Hoxton 

Rev.     Samuel      Grcathced,  Square. 

Newport  Pagnell.  Rev.  John  Saltern,  Bridport. 


40     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

Rev.  J.  Steven,  Thornhaugh     Rev.  Mat.  Wilks,  Old  Street 

Street.  Road. 

Mr.  R.Steven,  Upper  Thames     Rev.     E.     Williams,     D.D., 

Street.  Rotherham. 

W.  Taylor,  Esq.,  Southamp-     John    Wilson,    Esq.,   Isling- 
ton, ton. 
Rev.    A.    Waugh,     Alsop's     Thomas  Wilson,  Esq.,  Wood 

Buildings.  Street. 

D.  West,  Esq.,  Southampton     Joseph    Wilson,  Esq.,   Milk 

Row.  Street. 

Among  the  other  resolutions  passed  is  one  to  the  effect 
'  that  the  Directors  publish  as  soon  as  possible  a  report  of 
the  proceedings  of  the  general  meeting,  together  with  the 
sermons.'  This  was  done  immediately,  and  issued  under 
the  date  of  October  5,  1795.  This  has  ever  since  been 
considered  the  first  annual  Report  of  the  Society.  We 
cannot  conclude  the  sketch  of  these  ever-memorable  meet- 
ings better  than  by  using  some  sentences  found  in  this 
document : — 

'  Looking  back  to  this  singular  epoch,  we  cannot  avoid 
expressing  our  sense  of  the  condescension  and  tender  mercy 
of  our  God,  who  hath  benignly  smiled  on  this  rising  institu- 
tion. To  Him  the  unfeigned  gratitude  and  praises  of  many 
are,  we  hope,  on  this  account,  frequently  ascending  like 
clouds  of  fragrant  and  acceptable  incense. 

'  Let  not,  however,  the  appearance  of  success  and  pros- 
perity in  this  arduous  undertaking  seduce  our  vain  hearts 
into  carnal  confidence,  security,  and  presumption.  "  Let 
us  rejoice  with  trembling."  "  Let  not  him  that  girdeth  on 
his  harness  boast  as  he  that  putteth  it  off."  The  great 
difficulties  of  the  warfare  have  not  yet  been  encountered. 
In  vain  do  men  flow  in  crowds  to  the  places  of  worship, 
in  vain  "  is  gold  lavished  out  of  the  bag,  in  vain  do  songs 
and  shouts  of  triumph  shake  the  starry  vault,"  if  there  are 
not  in  secret  places  those  agonizing  wrestlings  of  faith  and 
compassionate  supplication,  which  bear  some  proportion  to 
the  magnificent  object,  the  conversion  of  heathen  nations. 
To  these  deep-felt,  unostentatious,  and  truly  Christian  exer- 


THE  FIRST  ANNUAL   REPORT  41 

cises,  apply  yourselves,  with  your  utmost  might,  ye  children 
of  the  living  God,  ye  friends  of  Z\on,ye  who  love  Jerusalem, 
and  mourn  for  her. 

*  May  we  not  allude  to  those  words  of  our  Lord,  "  This 
kind  goeth  not  out  but  by  prayer  and  fasting  "  ?  When  fit 
messengers  are  found,  great  and  mighty  must  be  the  opera- 
tion of  grace  in  their  souls,  raising  them  to  such  degrees  of 
knowledge,  courage,  and  spiritual  energy,  as  hitherto  we 
have  seldom  witnessed.  For  this  end,  your  humble  united 
cries  must  pierce  the  heavens,  and,  rendered  efficacious  by 
the  blood  of  the  everlasting  covenant,  bring  down  from  on 
high  the  Lord  God  of  Elijah,  Jesus,  the  Lamb  of  God,  the 
Spirit  of  Jesus,  and  of  the  apostles  and  witnesses  of  the 
Lamb.  You  must  bear  your  missionaries  on  the  wings  of 
your  faith  and  love,  through  those  vast  waters  and  unknown 
dangers  which  are  between  them  and  the  objects  of  their 
concern  and  exertion.  And  when  they  are  set  down  in  the 
midst  of  crowds  of  ungodly,  Christless  savages,  will  you 
forget  them  ?  Will  you  slightly  regard  their  work  ?  Will 
you  contemplate  the  solemn  spectacle  with  dry  eyes  ? 
"  Bear  witness  against  us,  ye  blessed  benevolent  angels  who 
rejoice  in  the  repentance  of  a  sinner,  let  all  the  bright  lights 
of  heaven  become  dark  over  ns,  yea,  let  the  terrors  of  God  set 
themselves  in  array  against  us,  if  we  forget  thee^  O  Jerusalem, 
if  we  prefer  thee  not  above  our  chief  joy  T  ' 

Thus  broadly  and  firmly  were  laid  the  foundations  of  the 
London  Missionary  Society.  The  wonderful  story  of  what 
has  been  done  through  its  agency  during  the  century  which 
has  passed  away,  and  the  power  and  energy  with  which 
the  Society  has  entered  upon  its  second  hundred  years 
of  work  for  the  salvation  of  the  world,  are  the  best  testi- 
mony to  the  faith  and  enthusiasm  and  sanctified  common 
sense  of  the  men  who  laid  them.  They  were  a  remark- 
able company.  Their  sympathies  were  wide,  and  their 
energy  seemingly  exhaustless.  Most  of  them  were  con- 
cerned also  in  the  founding  in  1799  of  the  Religious  Tract 
Society,  and  in   1804  of  the  Bible  Society.     Nor  did  they 


42     ORIGIN  AND  FORMATION  OF  THE  SOCIETY 

neglect  home  claims.  They  were  also  instrumental  in 
founding-  some  of  the  most  active  home  missionary 
agencies,  and  many  of  the  most  helpful  philanthropic 
institutions  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Among  the  names 
given  on  p.  39  are  those  of  many  men  of  whom  it  is  true 
in  a  sense  far  beyond  the  realization  of  any  but  those  who 
have  looked  closely  into  their  deeds,  that  although  they 
have  all  long  since  '  rested  from  their  labours,'  yet  through 
the  societies  and  institutions  they  commenced  their  '  works 
do  follow  them '  in  blessing  to  large  numbers  who  have 
never  even  heard  their  names. 

Authorities. — The  Original  Minute-Book  of  the  Society  for  1795;  The 
First  Annual  Report ;  The  Evangelical  Magazine  for  1795  ;  The  Fathers  and 
Founders  of  the  London  Missionary  Society,  by  Dr.  John  Morison  ;  Sermons 
Preached  in  London  at  the  Formation  of  the  Missionary  Society,  London, 
1795;  The  History  of  the  London  Missioitary  Society,  by  William  Ellis, 
Vol.  I.,  1844  (only  volume  issued) ;  Lndependency  in  Warwickshire,  Sibree 
and  Caston,  1855.  This  book  is  full  of  details  of  interest;  and  most  of 
the  memoirs  of  contemporary  ministers  contain  references  to  the  origin  of  the 
Societv. 


CHAPTER    II 

THE  EARLY   INNER   HISTORY:     1795-1820 

Before  we  turn  to  the  picturesque  and  stimulating  details 
of  the  missions  in  foreign  lands,  we  shall  attempt  to  sketch 
some  of  the  most  important  features  of  the  home  history 
of  the  Society  during  the  first  quarter  of  a  century.  An 
adequate  conception  of  the  working  of  the  central  force 
will  render  it  easier  to  gauge  accurately  the  power  exerted 
on  the  distant  circumference. 

The  Board  of  Directors,  appointed  at  the  general 
meeting,  September  22,  1795,  lost  no  time  in  getting  to 
work.  They  assembled  for  executive  action  at  the  Castle 
and  Falcon,  on  September  28,  and  held  on  that  day  two 
meetings.  In  the  morning,  with  Rowland  Hill  in  the  chair, 
they  accepted  Captain  Wilson's  offer  of  his  services  as 
captain  of  the  expedition  intended  for  Otaheite ;  they 
appointed  the  Rev.  John  Love  and  Mr.  William  Shrubsole 
as  joint  secretaries  :  and  adopted  the  following  '  Rules  for 
the  Examination  of  Missionaries.' 

'  I.  No  man  shall  be  a  missionary  of  this  Society  unless 
the  Committee  of  Directors  appointed  for  the  examination 
of  missionaries  are  unanimously  satisfied  that  he  possesses 
an  eminent  share  of  the  grace  of  God,  and  appears  to  have 
a  call  to  this  particular  work. 

'  2.  It  is  not  necessary  that  every  missionary  should  be 
a  learned  man  ;  but  he  must  possess  a  competent  measure 
of  that  kind  of  knowledge  which  the  object  of  the  mission 
requires. 


44         THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

'  3.  Godly  men  who  understand  mechanic  arts  may  be  of 
signal  use  to  this  undertaking  as  missionaries,  especially  in 
the  South  Sea  Islands,  Africa,  and  other  uncivilized  parts 
of  the  world. 

'  4.  Every  missionary  must  be  well  apprized  of  the 
difficulties  and  dangers  of  the  undertaking;  and  be  willing 
through  divine  help  to  encounter  them. 

'  5.  Every  candidate  shall  express  his  desire  and  motives 
in  writing  directed  to  the  Secretary,  to  be  communicated 
by  him  to  the  body  of  Directors  at  their  monthly  meeting. 

'  6.  Every  candidate  shall  send  or  bring  with  him  a  cer- 
tificate with  regard  to  his  experience  in  the  Christian  life, 
and  his  standing  in  the  Church,  from  the  minister  or  other 
respectable  member  of  that  congregation  to  which  he 
belongs,  countersigned  by  a  Director. 

'  7.  If  the  Committee  are  unanimous  in  approving  the 
candidate  on  the  fullest  examination,  he  shall  be  immediately 
accepted  ;  if  two-thirds  or  more  approve,  his  case  shall 
stand  over  for  further  enquiry ;  but  if  two-thirds  do  not 
approve,  he  shall  be  immediately  rejected. 

'  8.  From  the  time  of  a  person's  being  chosen  to  this 
work  to  his  being  actually  sent  out,  he  shall  be  subject 
to  the  will  of  the  Directors,  who  shall  do  whatever  is 
in  their  power  to  promote  his  fitness  for  his  particular 
destination.' 

At  the  evening  meeting  Mr.  Joseph  Wilson  presided,  and 
various  business  details  were  decided. 

On  September  29  two  meetings  were  again  held.  In  the 
morning  the  Rev.  Alexander  Waugh  presided,  and  arrange- 
ments were  made  for  an  earnest  appeal,  on  behalf  of  the 
Society's  work,  to  London  ministers  who  were  not  yet 
members,  and  to  ministers  and  private  Christians  in  every 
part  of  England.  Messrs.  Bogue,  Steven,  and  Love  were 
appointed  to  draw  up  two  circular  letters,  the  first  seeking 
the  co-operation  of  ministers  and  friends  in  Scotland  ;  the 
second  addressed  to  Foreign  Protestant  Churches.  Arrange- 
ments were  also  made  for  a  personal  canvass  of  the  London 
ministers.     At  the  evening  meeting,  with  Mr.  Saltern  in 


FIRST  MEETINGS   OF  DIRECTORS  45 

the  chair,  the  relation  in  which  the  missionaries  would 
stand  to  those  connected  with  other  institutions  was  brought 
up  by  a  message  which  had  been  received  from  Dr.  Coke, 
the  well-known  Wesleyan  leader.  He  was  informed  '  that 
it  is  the  purpose  of  this  Society  to  act  as  brethren  towards 
missionaries  from  other  denominations.' 

Morning  and  evening  meetings  were  also  held  at  the 
Castle  and  Falcon  on  October  i.  Mr.  Bogue  was 
requested  '  to  draw  up  a  memorial  on  the  most  useful 
mode  of  employing  missionaries  in  the  interval  between 
their  approbation  and  embarkment,  and  during  their 
passage.'  The  Examination  Committee  was  constituted, 
to  consist  of  all  the  London  ministers  on  the  Board 
together  with  Messrs.  John  Wilson  and  R.  Steven.  On 
October  2  only  one  meeting  of  the  Board  was  held,  with 
Matthew  Wilks  in  the  chair,  and  the  following  committees 
were  appointed :  Funds,  Correspondence,  Reports,  Ex- 
amination, Provision  and  Conveyance.  The  duty  of  the 
last  on  this  list  was  to  manage  all  details  connected  with 
the  equipment  of  the  expedition  to  Tahiti. 

The  life  and  energy  which  had  been  so  powerfully 
manifested  throughout  the  September  meetings  dominated 
all  the  early  proceedings  of  the  Board.  Tahiti  by  no 
means  exhausted  the  faith  and  the  zeal  of  Dr.  Haweis  and 
his  colleagues,  and  at  the  meeting  on  October  2  he  pre- 
sented 'a  memorial  on  the  subject  of  an  African  mission,' 
for  which  he  was  duly  thanked,  and  which  bore  fruit  at  an 
early  date.  It  was  also  resolved  '  That  the  monthly  meetings 
of  the  Directors  be  held  on  the  second  Monday  of  each 
month,  at  half-past  five  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.' 

In  this  way  the  executive  body,  which  has  for  a  century 
acted  as  the  mainspring  of  the  Society's  work,  was  fairly 
started  upon  the  great  task.  It  was  composed  of  able  and 
devoted  men  ;  it  was  sustained  by  the  prayers,  the  sympathy, 
the  faith,  and  the  active  help  of  a  large  number  of  earnest 
Christian  people.  The  good  ship  left  port  under  a  sunny 
sky  and  with  a  favouring  breeze.  The  storms  and  tcm[)ests 
were  all  to  come,  and  many  a  hard  and  much-needed  lesson 


46  THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:  1795-1820 

was  to  be  learned  by  its  able  crew  in  the  immediate  future 
in  that  most  severe  and  yet  most  fruitful  of  all  schools — 
experience.  The  study  of  a  few  of  these  in  some  detail 
may  be  of  service  in  these  latter  days  to  those  who  are 
called  in  the  good  providence  of  God  to  lade  the  same 
great  ship  with  richer  cargoes,  and  to  sail  her  over  wider 
seas. 

From  the  first  it  was  evident  to  those  who  looked  beneath 
the  surface  that  the  Society  would  stand  or  fall  very  largely 
by  the  kind  of  men  who  enlisted  for  service  in  the  mission 
field.  The  Board  was  apparently  keenly  alive  to  the 
supreme  importance  of  securing  godly  and  sagacious  men  ; 
and  yet  here,  if  anywhere,  its  earlier  proceedings,  judged 
by  results,  are  most  exposed  to  damaging  criticism.  The 
original  regulations  of  the  Board  on  this  subject  have 
just  been  quoted.  Of  these  2  and  3  led  to  some- 
what disastrous  results.  From  the  first — as  now — there 
were  two  views  concerning  the  best  training  for  missionary 
service.  The  abnormal  conditions  of  the  time  possibly 
influenced  many  in  consenting  to  what  was  contrary  to 
their  own  sounder  judgment.  A  great  mission  to  the 
South  Seas  had  been  decided  upon  with  acclamation  by 
the  Society  in  general  meeting  assembled.  Doubtless 
many  of  the  Directors  felt  that  it  was  hardly  possible  in  the 
face  of  the  enthusiasm  they  had  so  recently  witnessed  to 
keep  rigidly  to  the  course  of  true  wisdom,  and  to  insist 
that  no  man  should  be  sent  forth  until  he  had  received  at 
least  two  or  three  years'  intellectual  and  spiritual  training, 
and  had  evidenced  his  fitness  for  the  foreign  field  by 
exhibiting  his  capacity  to  stand  the  searching  discipline  of 
college  training.  To  require  such  calm  and  dispassionate 
views  was,  perhaps,  to  expect  far  more  than  ordinary 
mortals  could  give.  It  is  also  practically  certain  that 
many  connected  with  the  management  of  the  Society  had 
most  erroneous  views,  first  as  to  what  heathen  life  was  like, 
and  secondly  as  to  the  type  of  man  best  fitted  to  deal  with 
it.  '  Godly  men  who  understand  mechanic  arts '  were  by 
not  a  few  of  the  fathers  placed  much  higher  in  the  scale  of 


EARLY  VIEWS   ON  MISSIONARY  TRAINING     47 

usefulness  among  uncivilized  nations  than  the  student,  the 
preacher,  the  man  of  scholarly  and  disciplined  mind.  The 
enormous  waste  of  resources  caused  by  the  practical 
adoption  of  this  view  in  the  early  years  of  the  Society's 
w^ork  is  an  object-lesson  for  succeeding  generations. 

Representatives  of  the  opposite  view  were  not  wanting, 
but  they  were  overborne  for  the  time.  It  was  not  until 
experience  with  unwelcome  lessons  came  to  their  support 
that  the  views  these  advocated  finally  and  completely 
triumphed.  Such  men  held  it  to  be  little  short  of  folly  to 
expect  w^arm  and  fervent  religious  feeling  to  compensate 
for  lack  of  mental  force  and  intellectual  and  spiritual 
training.  They  themselves  experienced  the  same  intense 
yearning  for  the  salvation  of  the  heathen,  but  they  did  not 
believe  that  this  would  necessarily  keep  undisciplined  minds 
and  natures  from  errors  of  the  most  serious  kind.  Unable 
to  enforce  their  own  views  in  this  matter,  all  that  such 
could  at  first  achieve  was  to  secure  that  intending  mission- 
aries should  at  least  have  all  the  training  it  was  possible  to 
give  them  in  the  few  months  which  elapsed  between  their 
acceptance  and  the  sailing  of  the  Duff. 

On  November  9,  1795,  the  Board  decided  that  married 
men  might  be  accepted  as  candidates,  the  minute  running  : 
'  Married  men,  with  their  wives,  are  eligible  for  the  mission, 
if  approved  by  the  Committee  of  Examination.'  As  a  result 
of  this,  six  of  those  who  embarked  on  the  Duff  were  mar- 
ried, but  only  two  of  them  had  any  chikiren.  On  March  14, 
1796,  the  minute-book  contains  the  following  entry:  'The 
Committee  of  Examination  recommend  Mr.  Buchanan  as 
a  proper  person  to  be  employed  as  a  mechanic  in  the  mis- 
sionary work.  Resolved  that  Mr.  Buchanan  be  admitted  as 
a  missionary,  and  that  an  annuity  of  five  guineas  be  allowed 
from  the  Society  to  his  aged  mother.'  Buchanan  was  one 
of  the  company  left  on  Tongatabu,  and  on  his  return  to 
England  in  i8co  his  connection  with  the  Society  was  dis- 
solved. Presumably  the  annuity  also  ceased  at  that  date, 
but  of  this  there  seems  to  be  no  record.  In  the  case  of 
Main,  who  in  the  end  turned  out  badly,  the  Board  paid  the 


48         THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

sum  of  twenty-four  guineas  in  order  to  secure  his  discharge 
from  the  army. 

At  the  general  meeting  held  at  the  Castle  and  Falcon 
on  May  ii,  1796,  'it  was  moved  and  seconded  that  every 
missionary  accepted  by  this  Society  shall  subscribe  a  Con- 
fession of  Faith,  to  be  drawn  up  for  this  purpose.  But  the 
previous  question  was  moved  and  carried,  and  the  original 
motion  was  rejected.'  No  other  result,  perhaps,  on  a  motion 
of  this  kind  could  be  expected,  and  in  the  light  of  a  cen- 
tury's experience  no  other  result  appears  desirable.  As 
a  matter  of  fact,  almost  every  early  missionary  would  have 
had  no  difficulty  whatever  in  signing  the  full  Westminster 
Confession.  The  missionaries  on  the  Duff,  who  during  the 
voyage  formed  themselves  into  a  little  church,  were  hardly 
as  liberal  in  this  respect  as  the  general  meeting.  In  the 
very  full  journal  of  their  voyage,  which  has  been  preserved, 
under  the  date  January  18,  1797,  an  entry  covering  many 
folio  pages  exhibits  the  almost  total  inability  of  the  great 
majority  either  to  perceive  or  to  recognize  that  truth  may 
have  more  than  one  side  and  be  capable  of  more  than  one 
presentation.  Some  of  them,  we  read,  '  entertained  a  sus- 
picion that  Brother  Jefferson  and  Brother  Cock  were  not 
quite  sound  in  their  religious  principles.  Knowing  that 
both  of  them  had  been  members  of  Arminian  Societies, 
they  were  fearful  that  the  old  leaven  had  not  been 
thoroughly  purged  out.'  The  origin  of  this  suspicion  was 
a  conversation  which  Cock  had  held  with  Henry  '  con- 
cerning the  extent  of  Christ's  death,'  in  which  the  former 
'  at  first  showed  some  reluctance  to  declare  his  sentiments,' 
but  finally  was  driven  to  affirm  that  Christ  died  for  all 
men.  Brother  Jefferson,  '  who  did  not  appear  to  show  so 
much  openness,'  '  seemed  to  evade  giving  a  direct  reply  to 
the  question  by  quoting  several  passages  of  Scripture  which 
speak  of  the  Redeemer  as  dying  for  all.'  It  was  the  daily 
custom  for  the  whole  company  of  missionaries  to  meet  and 
discuss  in  a  kind  of  open  debate  some  set  passage  of  Scrip- 
ture. The  astute  president  on  the  day  following  this  fateful 
conversation  chose  Romans  viii.  29,  30.     Brother  Cock,  not 


%• 


Rowland  Hill 


Matthew  Wilks 


Joseph  Hardcastle 
(Treasurer,  1795  to  1815 


*  m 


Alexander  Waugh 


William  Siirubsole 
(Home  Secretary,  1795  to  1798; 


'  THE  FUNDAMENTAL   PRINCIPLE  '  49 

unwisely,  asserted  that  the  interpretation  of  the  passage  was 
too  difficult  for  him  ;  Jefferson,  that  he  had  not  yet  arrived 
at  any  decisive  judgment  on  the  doctrine  of  'final  perse- 
verance.' This  state  of  affairs  was  so  serious  that  Captain 
Wilson  was  called  in,  regular  meetings  of  the  whole  company 
were  held,  the  accused  were  examined  and  cross-examined, 
and  finally,  after  a  very  long  theological  discussion,  significant 
to  us  only  because  of  the  confident  assertion  by  Captain 
Wilson,  as  a  matter  freely  admitted  on  all  hands,  '  that  the 
Missionary  Society  was  quite  Calvinistical,'  the  meeting 
was  adjourned  to  the  next  day,  January  19.  when  both 
the  erring  brothers  were  formally  excommunicated.  Some 
twenty  folio  pages  of  the  journal  describe  how  the  two 
were  led  to  see  that  in  this  case  truth  was  with  the 
majority,  and  on  January  29  they  were  by  open  vote  of 
all  the  brethren  readmitted  into  '  the  Church  of  Christ  on 
board  the  Duff.' 

The  meeting  of  Directors  held  at  the  Castle  and  Falcon 
on  May  9,  1796,  marks  an  epoch  in  the  history  of  the 
Society.  The  decision  then  reached  was  of  the  highest 
importance  in  the  later  development  of  the  work  abroad, 
inasmuch  as  those  present  framed  and  adopted  what  has 
ever  since  been  known  as  '  the  fundamental  principle '  of 
the  London  Missionary  Society.  Mr.  Thomas  Wilson  was 
in  the  chair,  and  the  Directors  present  were  Messrs. 
Waugh,  Sir  Egerton  Leigh,  Neale,  Robert  Steven, 
Hardcastle,  Wilks,  Eyre,  Piatt,  Cowie,  Joseph  Wilson, 
Alday,  Haweis,  Burder,  Brooksbank,  Campbell,  Hill. 
The  all-important  decision  is  thus  entered  in  the  minute- 
book  : — 

*As  the  union  of  God's  People  of  various  Denominations, 
in  carrying  on  this  great  Work,  is  a  most  desirable  Object, 
so,  to  prevent,  if  possible,  any  cause  of  future  dissention,  it 
is  declared  to  be  a  fundamental  principle  of  the  Missionary 
Society,  that  our  design  is  not  to  send  Presbyterianism, 
Independency,  Episcopacy,  or  any  other  form  of  Church 
Order  and  Government  (about  which  there  may  be  differ- 
ences of  opinion  among  serious  Persons),  but  the  Glorious 

I.  E 


50         THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795  1S20 

Gospel  of  the  blessed  God  to  the  Heathen  :  and  that  it  shall 
be  left  (as  it  ever  ought  to  be  left)  to  the  minds  of  the  Per- 
sons whom  God  may  call  into  the  fellowship  of  His  Son  from 
among  them  to  assume  for  themselves  such  form  of  Church 
Government,  as  to  them  shall  appear  most  agreeable  to  the 
Word  of  God.' 

In  the  original  record  for  the  word  Presbyterian/ Presby- 
tery'  stood,  and  for  Episcopacy, '  Prelacy,'  these  being  scored 
through  and  the  others  written  above.  In  this  liberal,  sound, 
and  sagacious  manner  the  fathers  shaped  the  foundation- 
stone  of  the  Society.  It  is  believed  that  the  framer  and 
mover  of  the  resolution  was  Dr.  Waugh^.  The  minute-book 
does  not  assign  it  to  any  member.  Whatever  appearance 
of  alteration  a  hundred  years  have  brought  has  been  due, 
not  to  any  change  of  view  on  the  part  of  Directors  or  sup- 
porters of  the  Society,  but  to  the  fact  that  those  attached 
to  Episcopacy  and  Presbyterianism  have  very  naturally 
thrown,  for  the  most  part,  their  sympathy  and  their  support 
into  those  special  denominational  societies  which  have 
sprung  into  existence  since  1796. 

The  catholic  basis  of  the  Society,  and  the  warm  sym- 
pathy it  had  called  forth  in  various  sections  of  the  Church 
of  Christ  in  Great  Britain,  were  emphasized  by  the  annual 
meetings  of  1797.  The  last  of  the  four  sermons  was 
preached  on  the  morning  of  May  12  in  the  ancient  historic 
Church  of  St.  Saviour's,  Southwark,  the  tomb  of  Gower  and 
Bishop  Andrews,  the  scene  of  the  trial  and  sentence  of  John 
Rogers,  and  one  of  the  noblest  architectural  monuments  of 
London.  The  preacher  was  the  Rev.  Melville  Home,  Vicar 
of  Olney,  who  had  been  so  influential  in  some  of  the  move- 
ments out  of  which  the  Society  sprang. 

The  Report  for  1797  thus  portrays  the  scene: — 

*  Such  an  assemblage  of  ministers  of  all  denominations 
was    scarce,    we    believe,   ever    remembered    before.      All 

*  Fathers  and  Founders  of  the  London  Missionary  Society,  ii.  p.  i.  See  also 
A  Memoir  of  Alexander  Waiigh,  by  James  Hay  and  Henry  Belfrage,  p.  223. 
London,  1830. 


*  THOUGHTS   ON  OBTAINING  MISSIONARIES'    51 

prejudices  and  illiberal  distinctions  laid  aside,  and  a  demon- 
stration afforded  that  all  good  men  may  hold  the  unity  of 
the  Spirit  in  the  bond  of  peace,  and  zealously  unite  in  the 
great  and  glorious  object  of  communicating  the  Gospel  to 
their  perishing  fellow-sinners,  whilst  each  reserves  the  right 
of  private  judgment  respecting  the  preferable  modes  of 
worship  or  ecclesiastical  discipline.  Surely  no  real  Chris- 
tian in  England,  Scotland,  or  of  any  foreign  church,  could 
have  been  present  without  feeling  a  reviving  glow  of  ani- 
mating zeal,  an  unspeakable  delight  to  see  the  unhoped- 
for union  of  men  of  all  denominations,  and  the  pleasing 
expectation  that  the  time  is  approaching  when  we  shall  all 
be  less  warped  by  educational  prejudices — escape  from  the 
repulsion  of  bigotry — feel  that  Christ  and  His  kingdom  is 
not  divided — that  one  great  object  ought  to  swallow  up  all 
lesser  differences,  and  one  uniform  purpose  to  fill  every 
bosom — to  know  nothing  else  at  home  or  abroad  but  Jesus 
Christ  and  Him  crucified.' 

In  the  course  of  1797  the  question  of  the  qualifications 
which  should  be  possessed  by  those  intending  to  become 
missionaries  continued  to  provide  matter  for  warm  debate. 
At  a  meeting  of  Directors  held  on  May  12,  Mr.  Bogue  read 
a  paper  recommending  the  institution  of  seminaries  for  the 
special  training  of  missionary  students,  and  at  the  same 
meeting"  Mr.  Cowie  read  a  memoir  on  'A  Mission  to  Indo- 
Stan,'  and  an  essay  from  the  Evangelical  Magazine  was 
read,  entitled  '  Thoughts  on  Obtaining  Missionaries.'  It 
was  resolved,  'That  it  is  the  opinion  of  this  Society  that  the 
Plan  recommended  in  the  above  essay  be  taken  into  the 
most  solemn  consideration  of  the  Directors  on  Monday 
morning  next  at  10  o'clock,  and  be  considered  by  the 
Society  on  Monday  afternoon  at  4  o'clock,  both  these 
meetings  to  be  at  the  Scots'  Hall.' 

The  essay  here  referred  to  was  printed  in  the  Evangelical 
Magazine  for  May,  1797,  and  is  signed  '  Philadclphos.'  Its 
main  contention  was  that  many  leading  ministers  were  fit 
to  be  missionaries  to  the  heathen  ;  that  such  were  not 
always  the  most  eager  to  proffer  their  services ;  and  that  in 

E   3 


52         THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 

this  case  their  elder  brethren  should  assume  the  responsi- 
bility of  nominating  them.  The  drift  of  the  argument  may 
be  gathered  from  the  following  extracts  : — 

*  Every  one  who  thinks  seriously  and  with  attention  upon 
a  mission  to  the  heathen,  must  perceive  at  once  the  great- 
ness of  the  enterprise,  as  well  as  the  necessity  of  a  peculiarity 
of  talents  to  fit  him  for  so  great  a  work.  He  does  not 
imbibe  that  absurd  notion  that  men  who  have  but  one 
talent,  and  little  or  nothing  to  sacrifice,  are  the  only  proper 
persons  for  carrying  the  light  of  divine  truth  to  their  heathen 
brethren ;  but  while  he  contemplates  with  pleasure,  he  also 
beholds  with  solemn  awe  the  august  work  of  a  mission  to 
the  heathen ;  and,  like  Moses,  diffidently  concludes  that  he 
is  unable  to  plant  the  Church  of  God  in  a  wilderness.  Is  it 
any  wonder,  then,  that  he  exclaims,  with  the  same  venerable 
leader  of  Israel,  "  O  my  Lord  !  send,  I  pray  Thee,  by  the 
hand  of  him  whom  Thou  wilt  send." ' 

'  To  offer  one's  self  as  a  missionary  necessarily  includes 
that  the  person  himself  at  least  has  formed  some  pre- 
conceived notion  that  he  may  be  qualified  for  such  an 
honourable  office.  Those  alone  who  have  already  rejected 
some  that  have  had  such  notions  are  best  able  to  tell  us 
what  were  their  feelings  in  performing  so  painful  a  part 
of  duty.' 

'  When,  brethren,  ye  are  met  in  your  several  societies, 
the  forwardness  of  your  plans  exceeding  all  expectations., 
Jesus  smiling  on  you  with  His  blessed  presence,  and  cherish- 
ing in  you  love,  zeal,  unanimity,  and  every  grace,  and  when 
a  mission  is  so  far  completed  as  to  need  nothing  but  able 
ambassadors  to  carry  it  into  execution — then  let  a  com- 
mittee of  the  most  aged  and  experienced  among  you  be 
chosen  to  nominate,  with  prudence  and  firmness,  as  many 
of  their  younger  brethren  as  may  be  necessary  to  effect  the 
generous  purpose.  Let  this  nomination  be  announced  in 
proper  season  to  the  whole  Society,  who  must  of  necessity 
judge  by  ballot  of  the  propriety  or  impropriety  of  the 
several  names  contained  in  it.' 

'  We  would  also  be  far  from  restricting  your  choice  to 


MR.   HARDCASTLE'S  RESOLUTIONS  53 

those  who  are  already  preachers  of  the  Gospel.  It  is 
perhaps  well  known  to  you  all  that  there  are  many  of  the 
laity  among  you  who  might  prove  as  able  missionaries,  if 
their  abilities  were  called  forth  to  action,  as  any  of  the 
clergy.  Let  these  hidden  jewels  be  found  out,  ordained, 
and  sent  forth  to  labour  in  God's  harvest,  that  they  at  last 
may  shine  as  the  sun  for  ever  in  the  kingdom  of  their 
Father,  after  having  turned  many  of  the  heathen  unto 
righteousness.' 

This  very  weighty  matter  was  fully  and  seriously  dis- 
cussed on  May  15,  at  the  adjourned  meeting  held  in  the 
Scots'  Hall,  Crane  Court,  Fleet  Street,  •  a  retired  and 
commodious  place,'  which  had  been  kindly  offered  for  that 
purpose.  The  treasurer,  Mr.  Hardcastle,  read  a  thoughtful 
paper',  in  which  he  suggested  the  following  resolutions, 
all  of  which  were  finally  adopted  : — 

'  I.  That  the  Society,  being  aware  of  the  great  importance 
of  the  question  respecting  the  best  means  of  procuring 
missionaries,  invite  and  request  the  opinion  of  the  friends 
of  the  institution  thereon,  to  be  transmitted  to  their 
secretary. 

'  2.  That  from  a  survey  of  the  state  of  the  heathen  world, 
they  are  of  opinion  that  it  is  encouraging  for  missionary 
exertions ;  and  that  it  is  peculiarly  the  duty  of  ministers  of 
the  Gospel  to  devote  themselves  to  the  promotion  of  the 
kingdom  of  Christ  in  whatever  part  of  the  world  their 
services  may  tend  to  accomplish  this  great  object. 

'  3.  That  the  ministers  in  the  direction,  and  those  present 
in  the  Society,  consider  it  to  be  their  duty  to  enter  upon 
a  solemn  examination  of  themselves  as  in  the  immediate 
and  awful  presence  of  God  ;  whether  it  appears  to  be  His 
sacred  will  concerning  them,  that  they  should  personally 
bear  His  name  among  the  heathen  ;  that  they  will  ac- 
company this  examination  with  prayer  for  His  direction  and 
influence,  that  they  may  be  enabled  faithfully  to  follow  the 
deliberate  conviction  of  their  hearts. 

*  This  is  printed  in  cxtenso  in  Evangelical  Magazine,  June,  1797,  and  in  ihc 
Report  for  1 797. 


54        THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:   1795-1820 

*4.  That  is  recommended  to  every  minister  connected 
with  this  institution,  who  is  zealous  for  the  honour  of 
Christ,  and  in  whose  situation  no  insurmountable  objection 
to  missionary  labour  exists  ;  to  promote  the  same  solemn 
process  within  his  own  breast. 

'  5.  That  the  Directors  be  desired  to  revolve  in  their 
most  serious  thoughts  the  situation,  the  gifts  and  the  spirit 
of  those  ministers  who  are  within  the  circle  of  their 
acquaintance,  and  where  any  appears  to  them,  considering 
all  circumstances,  qualified  and  suited  for  the  service  of 
Christ  among  the  heathen,  suggest  the  same  to  him, 
and  earnestly  recommend  the  subject  to  his  serious  and 
deliberate  consideration. 

'  6.  That  it  be  recommended  to  all  associated  bodies  of 
evangelical  ministers  to  take  the  state  of  the  heathen 
world  into  serious  discussion  in  all  their  meetings,  and 
particularly  to  consider  of  those  individually  among  them 
who  appear  adapted  to  this  important  work.' 

Various  efforts  were  made  to  carry  out  these  plans.  The 
Board  resolved  on  December  26,  1797,  'that  Dr.  Haweis, 
Mr.  Maurice,  and  Mr.  Cowie  be  a  committee  to  draw  up  an 
Address  to  excite  and  encourage  ministers  of  standing  and 
respectability  to  accompany  the  missionaries  to  Jamaica, 
India,  and  other  places  ;  and  to  intimate  that  the  families 
of  persons  who  are  willing  to  go  shall  be  suitably  provided 
for.'  On  February  12,  1798,  the  Board  further  resolved, 
'  should  any  man  of  approved  piety  and  ability,  and  having 
a  family,  offer  himself  to  this  Society,  his  life  shall  be 
insured  to  the  amount  of  such  a  sum  as  shall  be  agreed  on 
for  the  benefit  of  his  family,  should  he  die  in  the  missionary 
service.' 

So  far  as  the  records  show  the  only  serious  attempt  to 
act  upon  these  resolutions  was  that  made  by  Mr.  Robert 
Haldane  of  Edinburgh,  in  conjunction  with  David  Bogue. 
These  men  sought  to  organize  a  mission  to  India.  Two 
ministers  who  had  just  left  the  Church  of  Scotland  and 
joined  the  Independent  Church,  the  Rev.  Greville  Ewingand 
the  Rev.  William  Innes,  were  associated  with  Mr.  Haldane, 


MR.   BOGUE'S   OFFER  FOR  INDIA  55 

who  intended  to  meet  the  whole  cost  of  the  enterprise  by 
selling  his  beautiful  estate  of  Airthrey.  Mr.  Bogue  thus 
describes  the  enterprise : — 

'  The  plan  of  sending  out  young  men  unaccustomed  to 
the  task  of  religious  instruction  never  appeared  to  me 
calculated  to  produce  the  end  we  had  in  view.  I  always 
thought  it  the  duty  of  more  experienced  men  to  lead  the 
way,  and  offer  themselves  for  the  service  of  the  heathen  ; 
but,  like  you,  I  thought  myself  too  old  for  the  office  of 
a  missionary.  But,  about  eight  months  ago,  I  received  an 
invitation  from  my  friend,  Mr.  Haldane,  to  accompany  him 
to  Bengal,  to  assist  him  (along  with  two  others  who  were 
to  be  applied  to)  in  carrying  into  execution  a  plan  for  the 
conversion  of  the  heathen,  which  he  had  formed  about 
a  year  before.  After  weighing  the  subject  maturely, 
I  accepted  his  call,  and  declared  my  readiness  to  go.  The 
two  others  we  had  in  view,  Mr.  Ewing  and  Mr.  Innes, 
(whom  some  of  your  Bristol  people  know)^  have  likewise 
agreed  to  go  with  us.  What  you  mention,  as  to  age,  and 
the  uncertainty  of  the  climate  agreeing  with  me,  is  just. 
But  these  things  must  be  left  in  the  hands  of  the  great 
Head  of  the  Church  :  I  am  a  necessary  link  of  the  chain. 
As  we  are  to  live  in  the  close  union  of  brothers,  it  would 
not  do  unless  we  knew  each  other  ;  and,  from  what  we  know, 
could  place  some  dependence  on  suitableness  of  disposition, 
&c.  Though  a  more  suitable  and  a  younger  person  could 
be  found,  he  wants  the  qualification  of  old  friendship  and 
acquaintance  which  I  possess.  The  plan  was  formed  on 
the  supposition  of  the  persons  composing  it,  who  actually 
do  compose  it.  Every  person  we  had  in  view  has  agreed 
to  go.  May  we  not  hope  there  was  something  of  the  hand 
of  God  directing  in  this  matter  ^  ?  ' 

As  soon  as  his  intention  became  known,  the  most 
strenuous  and  persistent  efforts  were  made  by  some  of  his 
friends  and  many  of  his  congregation  to  dissuade  Mr.  Bogue. 

^  Memoirs  of  the  Life  of  David  Bogue,  Bennett,  p.  205.  London,  1827.  See 
also  the  very  full  account  of  the  plan  and  the  steps  taken  to  carry  it  out  in 
Memoirs  of  the  Lives  of  Robert  Haldane  and  James  A.  Haldane,  chapter  v. 


56  THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 

The  purpose,  however,  which  these  friends  could  not 
change  was  effectually  frustrated  by  the  East  India 
Company,  who,  notwithstanding  great  pressure  of  many 
kinds  which  was  brought  to  bear  upon  them,  to  the  lasting 
disgrace  of  that  great  corporation,  absolutely  refused  to 
allow  these  gentlemen  to  proceed  to  India  in  the  capacity 
of  missionaries.  The  attempt,  though  apparently  fruitless  at 
the  time,  had  a  powerful  influence  upon  that  movement  of 
public  opinion  which  ultimately  compelled  the  East  India 
Company  to  grant  missionaries  free  access  to  all  parts  of 
India  under  their  control. 

Meanwhile  no  settled  scheme  for  a  better  education  of 
intending   missionaries    had    yet    been   worked    out    and 
approved.     Some   of  the   accepted    men  were   under  the 
superintendence  of  a  small  committee  of  London  ministers. 
Others  were  placed  under  the  care  of  Mr.  Bogue  and  other 
country    ministers.      On    December    2,    1798,    Mr.    Bogue 
preached  on  board  the  Duff  while  lying  off  Portsmouth, 
waiting  for  the  convoy  with  which  she  was  to  sail  a  second 
time   for   Tahiti.     The   success    of  her   first   voyage   had 
aroused  the  greatest  excitement  in   all  those  circles  con- 
nected with   missionary  work.     No  tidings  had  yet  come 
to  hand  of  the  disasters  at  Tahiti  and  Tongatabu.     The 
erroneous    conviction  that  once   landed  upon   the  distant 
islands  of  the  Pacific  the  missionaries  would    practically 
be  able  to  support  themselves,  seems   to  have  prevented 
much    serious   thought    concerning    the   future   career   of 
so  large   a   body   of  new    missionaries.      Mr.   Bogue  did 
not   share  the  sanguine  views  of  many.     In   his   sermon, 
which  was  not  at  all  palatable  to  many  of  his  audience, 
he  uttered   wise  words  of  warning.     '  Some  will  tell  you 
that   you   are   in    no   danger   of   shipwreck   because    you 
carry  Christ  and  His  Gospel.     But  you  know  a  certain  old 
missionary  who  said,  "  Thrice  have  I  suffered  shipwreck  ; 
a   day   and    a   night   have    I    been    in    the   deep." '     The 
preacher's  heart  sank  within  him  as  he  studied  the  faces 
before  him.     He  had  nevei  believed  in  the  hasty  methods 
of  selection   which   had  hitherto   been  followed  ;    nor  did 


ANNIVERSARY  SERVICES,    1798  57 

he  approve  of  combining  missionary  and  commercial 
enterprise.  Events,  sooner  even  than  he  could  have  antici- 
pated, confirmed  the  soundness  of  his  judgment.  To  make 
this  clear  we  must  retrace  our  steps  a  little. 

On  May  it,  179H,  while  one  of  the  anniversary  services 
was  being  held  in  Christ  Church,  Spitalfields,  a  note  was 
brought  in  and  handed  to  Dr.  Haweis,  announcing  the  safe 
arrival  in  the  previous  December  of  the  Duff  at  Canton  on 
her  way  home.  Just  before  the  Rev.  Aaron  West  began 
his  sermon  on  '  The  apostolic  missionary  as  delineated  in  the 
qualifications  and  actions  of  St.  Paul/  the  doctor,  with 
what  feelings  we  can  easily  imagine,  stepped  into  the 
pulpit  and  thrilled  the  great  congregation  with  the  welcome 
news.  On  July  11,  1798,  the  Duff  reached  London,  and 
the  marvellous  success  which  had  attended  her  voyage 
aroused  new  and  even  more  ardent  enthusiasm  on  behalf  of 
Tahiti.  It  was  a  time  of  great  social  and  political  strain 
all  over  Europe.  The  Report  read  at  the  fifth  annual 
meeting,  May  8,  1799,  states:  'The  rapid  and  astonishing 
changes  which  have  been  recently  produced  in  some  of  the 
governments  of  the  world  we  behold  with  emotions  and 
views  in  some  respects  peculiar  to  those  who  survey  all 
human  events  through  an  evangelical  medium^  and  as  sub- 
ordinate to  the  dispensations  of  grace.  We  are  sure  that 
the  administration  of  all  things  is  in  the  hands  of  our 
exalted  Lord,  whose  wisdom  will  order,  and  power  effect  the 
purposes  of  His  own  will,  and  so  overrule  ambition,  folly, 
wickedness,  infidelity  and  profaneness  as  to  set  up  and 
establish  that  kingdom  which  is  an  everlasting  kingdom, 
and  that  dominion  which  shall  never  be  destroyed.' 

The  Report  later  on  continues  : — 

'  When  the  welcome  arrival  of  the  Duff  had  called  us 
into  the  house  of  God  again,  on  August  6  last,  to  testify 
our  thankfulness  for  mercies  so  distinguished,  we  could  not 
but  feel  the  obligations  laid  upon  us  to  renew  our 
exertions,  and  pursue  an  object  so  plainly  pointed  out  by 
the    happy    coincidences    attending    our     first    successful 


58         THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1S20 

voyage.  You,  therefore,  at  a  special  general  meeting, 
held  the  next  day,  most  cordially  and  unanimously  re- 
solved— "  That  the  Directors  be  authorized  to  employ 
a  ship  belonging  to  the  Society  on  another  voyage  to  the 
Pacific  Ocean,  for  the  purposes  of  supplying  our  brethren 
who  have  settled  there,  with  assistance  in  their  labours  ;  of 
adding  to  their  number,  where  circumstances  may  render  it 
necessary ;  and  of  planting  the  Gospel  in  other  islands  of 
that  ocean,  where  it  shall  appear  most  eligible,  from  their 
extent,  population,  or  other  favourable  circumstances." 

*  The  season  advancing  required  peculiar  diligence ;  and 
as  so  much  was  to  be  done  in  a  few  weeks,  our  renewed 
efforts  immediately  commenced.  The  Committee  of 
Provision  and  Conveyance  engaged  to  accomplish  every- 
thing respecting  the  ship  ;  and  the  Committee  of  Examina- 
tion set  themselves  to  the  arduous  task  of  looking  round 
for  a  sufficient  number  of  well  qualified  missionaries,  in 
addition  to  the  few  they  had  already  accepted,  and  of 
making  preparations  for  their  equipment.  We  are  over- 
whelmed at  the  reflection  of  the  wondrous  goodness  of 
God,  in  the  spirit  instantly  stirred  up  from  one  end  of  the 
kingdom  to  the  other.  Offers  of  service  poured  in  upon 
us.  Single  and  married  brethren,  with  their  wives,  pre- 
sented themselves,  ready  to  quit  everything  dear  to  them, 
and  embark  in  the  self-denying  service.  The  candidates 
soon  were  more  numerous  than  our  ship  was  capable  of 
conveying.  All  appeared  with  testimonials  of  their  Christian 
conduct  from  their  ministers  and  others.  Carefully  and 
repeatedly  they  were  examined,  as  to  their  experience, 
principles,  abilities,  and  motives,  and  such  of  them  selected 
as  appeared  the  most  proper  for  the  work. 

*  Among  these  were  men  not  only  apt  to  teach,  as 
preachers  and  catechists,  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus,  but 
botanists,  agriculturists,  ingenious  artizans  in  several 
branches,  and,  what  we  very  particularly  needed,  six  of  the 
brethren  were  instructed  in  the  knowledge  of  medicine  and 
surgery,  and  two  of  the  sisters  in  the  practice  of  midwifery. 
For  two   of  these   medical  persons,  and  one  of  the  most 


SECOND   COMPANY  SENT  IN  THE  DUFF        59 

valuable  mechanics,  we  were  indebted  to  our  coadjutors  in 
missionary  labours  in  Edinburgh,  one  of  the  best  schools 
for  the  science  of  medicine  ;  and  from  the  same  Society  we 
have  lately  received  the  liberal  present  of  ;^4co  in  token  of 
their  affection  and  esteem,  and  as  fellow-workers  and 
sharers  with  us  in  all  our  mercies.  Every  individual  of 
these  missionaries  left;,  apparently,  comfortable  stations,  and 
some  of  them  we  know  relinquished  even  advantageous 
prospects.  We  had  reason  to  believe  none  were  urged  by 
necessity,  or  a  love  of  change,  to  engage  in  the  work,  but 
by  a  deliberate  choice,  as  the  state  in  which  they  could 
most  effectually  glorify  God  in  their  bodies  and  in  their 
spirits,  which  were  His.  Such  as  were  approved,  but  could 
not  be  admitted,  retired  with  regret,  to  wait  another 
opportunity,  which  we  hope  will  ere  long  be  afforded  them. 

'  They  embarked  in  October,  and  had  an  unpleasant 
passage  to  Portsmouth,  where  the  vessel  lay  for  several 
weeks,  detained  by  contrary  winds,  yet  no  man's  heart 
failed,  nor  did  our  gracious  women  show  less  courage  and 
fidelity.  Some  of  the  Directors,  in  parting  with  them, 
parted  with  their  dearest  connections,  rejoicing  that  those 
united  to  them  in  the  endearing  ties  of  blood  and  friend- 
ship could  make  such  a  noble  sacrifice  of  themselves  to 
Christ,  and  were  counted  worthy  to  share  in  this  honour- 
able service.  Thursday,  December  20,  1798,  they  moved 
from  their  native  shores,  probably  to  revisit  them  no  more : 
the  silver  doves,  with  their  olive  branches,  floated  from  their 
mizentop,  and  displayed  the  blessed  emblem  of  their  design.' 

Mr.  Robson,  who  had  been  mate  under  Captain  Wilson, 
was  placed  in  charge  of  the  Duff  for  this  second  voyage  ; 
the  Rev.  Mr.  Howell  of  Knaresborough  was  joined  with 
Captain  Robson  as  superintendent  of  the  missionaries,  who 
numbered  thirty,  ten  of  them  being  married,  and  there 
were  seven  children.  This  transaction  now  appears  to  have 
been  a  conspicuous  example  of  zeal  outrunning  discretion. 
The  Lord  can  work  with  many  or  with  few ;  in  great 
spiritual  crises  a  nation  may  sometimes  be  born  in  a  day ; 
but  if  there  is  one  lesson  more  emphatically  taught  than 


6o         THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 

another  in  the  history  of  the  practical  working  of  the 
Christian  Church,  it  is  the  importance  of  spending  time 
and  care  on  the  training  of  Christian  workers  and  on  the 
development  of  Christian  work.  Before  the  Duff  sailed 
on  her  second  voyage,  the  large  majority  of  the  first  con- 
tingent sent  out  in  her  had  proved  unequal  to  their  task. 
A  swifter  discipline  almost  at  once  so  sifted  this  second 
company  of  thirty  as  to  prove  that,  notwithstanding  the 
fair  promise,  there  was  but  very  little  wheat  among  the 
chaff. 

The  Duff  finally  sailed  from  Portsmouth,  December  20, 
1798,  and  on  February  19,  1799,  ^^  Cape  Frio,  she  was 
captured  by  the  French  privateer  Le  Grand  Buonaparte. 
The  captured  missionaries,  separated  from  the  women  and 
children,  were  sent — some  in  prize  vessels  and  others  in 
their  captuier — to  Monte  Video  on  the  Rio  de  la  Plata, 
whither  the  Duff  preceded  them.  On  March  23  the 
women  and  children  were  landed,  and  shortly  afterwards 
the  men.  At  the  end  of  a  month  the  French  captain  told 
Captain  Robson  the  Duff  had  been  sold,  and  offered  him, 
in  exchange  for  bills  on  the  Society,  one  of  his  prizes,  in 
which  he  could  either  return  or  proceed  on  the  mission. 
On  April  21  the  missionaries  debated  the  situation.  The 
first  plan  was  to  go  to  Tahiti  by  way  of  the  Cape  of  Good 
Hope,  or  if  that  could  not  be  managed  to  sail  to  Sierra 
Leone,  and  see  if  a  mission  could  be  commenced  there. 
But  the  prize  was  sold  for  cash,  and  so  this  plan  failed. 
Finally  Captain  Carbonelle,  the  French  captain,  agreed 
with  the  Portuguese  who  had  purchased  his  prize  vessel, 
the  Postillihio,  that  he  should  convey  the  whole  body  to 
Rio  Janeiro,  Captain  Robson  and  his  crew  working  the 
ship.  On  May  8  they  embarked,  on  the  very  day  of  the 
anniversary  meeting  of  the  Society  that  year  in  London, 
and  on  May  9  sailed,  leaving  behind  at  Monte  Video  three 
of  the  crew.  After  a  miserable  voyage,  constantly  fighting 
with  contrary  winds,  they  were  on  June  5  captured  by 
a  Portuguese  fleet.  One  of  the  two  records  of  this 
voyage  which  have  been  printed,  thus  describes  this  expe^ 


THE  CAPTURED  MISSIONARIES  6i 

rience — the    turning-point  in   the  religious  history  of  the 
expedition  : — 

'  This  second  captivity  was  pecuHarly  trying :  some  of 
us  ill,  others  scarcely  recovered  from  the  indisposition  of 
Nature's  sorrow,  with  infants  so  young,  compelled  to  enter 
open  boats  on  the  trackless  ocean,  some  taken  to  one  ship, 
some  to  another,  while  we  were  scarcely  able  to  ask  each 
other  whither  we  were  going,  or  bid  adieu  ;  or  if  we  had 
even  made  the  inquiry,  those  who  were  conveying  us  were 
incapable  of  giving  us  the  information.  What  in  such 
a  state  could  have  reconciled  the  mind  to  that  which  was 
so  opposite  to  flesh  and  blood,  but  the  fullest  conviction 
that  it  was  the  Lord's  will,  and  that  the  Judge  of  all  the 
earth  doth  right.  How  evidently  did  the  events  of  this 
day  speak  the  mind  and  will  of  God.  We  had  been 
detained  by  contrary  winds,  fully  three  times  longer  than 
it  was  expected.  Twice  had  we  arrived  near  the  desired 
port,  and  twice  been  prevented  from  entering  it.  If  we 
had  been  but  one  day  sooner  we  should  have  reached  the 
harbour  without  interruption,  and  if  but  one  hour  later  the 
fleet  would  have  been  out  of  sight.  But  we  were  detained 
till  the  very  day,  yea,  the  very  hour,  at  which  the  fleet  was 
off  this  port,  that  we  might  arrive  near  to  the  very  spot 
whither  we  had  come  in  the  Duff,  with  the  same  reasonable 
expectations  and  pleasing  prospects,  and  there  be  again 
captured.  This  appeared  to  us  so  replete  with  sovereignty, 
and  to  speak  so  clearly  the  mind  and  will  of  God,  that  we 
were  constrained  to  say,  '•  It  is  the  Lord's  doing,  and 
marvellous  in  our  eyes,"  and  were  ready  to  conclude  that 
the  language  of  Providence  in  this  mission  was  the  same  as 
to  the  prophet  Ezekiel,  "  For  thou  art  not  sent  unto 
a  people  of  a  strange  speech,  and  of  an  hard  language, 
whose  words  thou  canst  not  understand,  but  to  the  house 
of  Israel"  ;  though  I  do  not  believe  that  the  Almighty  by 
this  providence  stamped  either  the  missionary  cause  or 
missionaries  with  His  disapprobation,  or  that  it  is  sufficient 
to  produce  discouragement  in  those  who  have  the  pur- 
poses and  promises  of  a  faithful   God,  who  hath  given  us 


62         THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1S20 

His  assurance,   "  In  due   time   ye    shall    reap,  if  ye   faint 
not  ^ 

Distributed  among  three  vessels  of  the  fleet,  the  whole 
party  were  conveyed  to  Lisbon,  the  great  majority  of 
the  missionaries  reasoning,  as  imperfectly  educated  men 
not  unnaturally  might  in  such  circumstances,  that  God 
meant  in  this  way  to  teach  them  that  it  was  not  His  will 
for  them  to  go  to  Tahiti.  The  fleet  reached  the  Rock  of 
Lisbon  on  September  21.  On  October  4  and  5,  except 
Captain  Robson,  who  had  to  stay  to  settle  up  his  accounts, 
and  Mr.  Hughes  and  Mr.  Hill,  who  could  not  leave  because 
of  the  illness  of  their  wives,  the  missionaries  sailed  for 
England,  the  larger  number  in  the  packet  Prince  of  Wales, 
the  rest  in  the  Fortitude.  Early  in  October,  after  various 
alarms,  owing  to  the  war  then  raging,  they  anchored  safely 
in  Falmouth  Harbour.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hill,  with  Captain 
Robson,  reached  London  on  November  12.  Mrs.  Hughes 
died  at  Lisbon  on  October  27.  Mr.  Hughes  sailed  from 
Lisbon  on  November  21,  was  captured  by  a  French 
privateer  on  December  5,  recaptured  by  a  Guernsey  cutter 
on  December  15,  and  landed  at  Plymouth  on  January  21, 
1 800.  Thus  ended  the  second  great  missionary  expedition 
undertaken  by  the  Society. 

The  first  reference  to  the  disaster  in  the  home  records  is 
a  minute  of  a  special  meeting,  dated  August  3,  1799,  when 
it  was  resolved,  "  That,  as  in  consequence  of  the  capture  of 
the  Duff  the  funds  of  the  Society  have  suffered  very  con- 
siderably, a  subscription  be  opened  for  repairing  the  loss, 
and  that  the  Directors  and  other  friends  present  do  set 
down  their  names  with  the  sums  which  they  mean  to 
subscribe  " ;  which  was  accordingly  done,  and  the  sum  of 
;^iT73  subscribed.'  In  the  record  there  is  a  supplementary 
list  of  ;^32i,  and  as  this  Is  the  first  list  in  the  Society's 
records  of  donations  to  meet  an  unexpected  emergency,  it 
may  be  of  interest  to  reproduce  both  donors  and  their 
gifts. 

'  A  Visible  Display  of  Divine  Providence  ;  or,  the  Journal  of  a  Captured 
Missionary.     By  William  Gregory,  p.  215.     London,  1800. 


DONATIONS   ON  LOSS   OF  THE  DUFF 


63 


Joseph  Hardcastle 

;^IOO 

Robert  Cowie 

100 

Do.  for  Mr.  Cowie  of 

Bengal 

21 

James  Neale 

ICO 

Thomas  Haweis 

100 

Joseph  Reyner 

ICO 

William  Sims 

ICO 

Matthew  Wilks 

20 

John  Eyre 

20 

Henry  Boase 

.50 

Robert  Campbell 

10 

George  Durant 

20 

William  Shrubsole 

10 

£751 

Brought  forward 
William  F.  Piatt 
John  Rainier 
Thomas  Hodson 
William  Clarke 
John  Townsend 
Chris.  Sundius 
Henry  Cox 
David  Cook 
Andrew  Mackie 
Robert  Curling 
Do.  for  Jesse  Curling 
Robert  Steel 


George  Caviller 
David  Whitaker 
Samuel  Yockney 
Thomas  Williams 
George  Wolff 


By  Directors  since. 

£^0      Samuel  Favel 

Robert  Haldane 
John  Walcot 
William  Skinner 


40 

10 

5 

50 


£75^ 
10 

21 

ico 

50 

5 

21 

25 

20 

10 

50 

100 

10 

£2\ 

20 
20 


On  August  5  a  meeting  of  Directors  was  held  at 
St.  Paul's  Coffee  House,  a  letter  drawn  up  to  be  sent  to 
Monte  Video,  immediate  steps  taken  for  the  financial  relief 
of  the  missionaries,  and  an  address  to  the  public  issued 
informing  them  that  the  loss  to  the  Society  would  be  'not 
less  than  i^io,cco.'  On  August  16  the  Board  received 
a  second  and  even  more  painful  shock  on  the  arrival  in 
London  of  tidings  that  eleven  of  their  missionaries  had  left 
Tahiti  under  circumstances  which  did  them  little  credit. 
By  the  end  of  October  most  of  the  captured  missionaries 
were  in  London.  Although  no  full  record  of  what  took 
place  occurs,  it  is  obvious  at  once,  first,  that  many  of  those 
who  had  put  their  hand  to  this  work  considered  their 
engagement  with  the  Society  to  be  now  at  an  end ; 
secondly,  that  many  of  them  as  soon  as  they  reached 
England  became  clamorous  for  money.     The  Examination 


64         THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 

Committee  had  been  empowered  to  deal  with  them,  but  on 
November  12  a  special  meeting  of  the  Board  was  held 
'  to  consider  what  is  necessary  to  be  allowed  to  those 
missionaries  who  have  returned  and  do  not  continue 
with  the  Society.  The  names  of  the  several  missionaries 
who  have  declined  being  read,  with  the  sums  they  have 
already  received,  it  was  resolved  that  the  sum  of  ;^40 
allowed  Mr.  Beattie  be  final.'  Then  follow  similar 
resolutions,  the  amounts  only  varying,  respecting  Cooper, 
Fitzgibbon,  Gregory,  Jones,  Levesque  (Peter  and  John), 
Parry,  James  Smith,  Soddy,  and  Vardy,  closing  in  five  cases 
with  the  phrase,  'and  that  it  be  final.' 

This  unhappy  incident  proved  a  sharp  discipline,  and  it 
exerted  a  healthy  influence  upon  the  later  course  of  events. 
Thirty  missionaries  began  this  disastrous  voyage,  of  whom 
ten  were  accompanied  by  their  wives.  Of  these  no  less 
than  tiventy-three  ceased  to  have  any  connection  with  the 
Society's  work  shortly  after  their  return  to  England  ;  but 
one  of  these,  the  Rev.  John  Jerard,  succeeded  the  Rev. 
George  Border  as  pastor  of  the  Independent  Church  at 
Coventry  in  1 804,  Of  the  remaining  seven,  two,  Clark 
Bentom  and  John  Mitchell,  gave  three  or  four  years'  service 
in  Canada.  Hayward  and  Charles  Wilson  did  good  work 
in  Tahiti ;  Waters  and  Youl  spent  a  few  years  on  that 
island — the  former  till  1805,  the  latter  till  1807  ;  and 
James  Read  passed  a  long  life  of  valuable  labour  in  South 
Africa. 

The  history  of  the  men  whom  the  Duff  carried  to  Tahiti 
in  1796  enforces  similar  lessons.  By  1800,  less  than  four 
years  after  sailing,  twenty  out  of  the  thirty  had  proved 
either  unequal  or  unfaithful  to  the  work,  while  three  had 
been  killed  in  the  mission  service.  Jefferson  and  Eyre, 
Bicknell,  Henry,  and  Nott  remained  faithful  to  the  work 
amid  all  discouragements  and  trials,  and  to  their  labours, 
especially  those  of  Nott  and  Jefferson,  the  final  victory  in 
Tahiti  was  due.  This  summary  of  results  indicates  that 
the  methods  of  1796  and  1798  did  not  quite  give  the  results 
that  were   so   ardently   desired.      There    must   have  been 


THE   TESTING   OF  EARLY  MISSIONARIES       65 

something  radically  wrong  in  the  method  of  selection  and 
education  which  resulted  in  leaving — after  the  lapse  of  only 
ten  years — simply  nwe  effective  workers  out  of  a  company 
of  sixty.  Experience,  thus  dearly  bought,  exerted  its  due 
influence,  and  the  records  of  the  Society  may  be  searched 
in  vain  for  any  parallel  to  this  most  unsatisfactory  be- 
ginning. 

The  capture  of  the  Duff  led  the  Directors  energetically 
to  set  about  communicating  with  the  missionaries  left  on 
Tahiti,  who  had  now  been  there  nearly  three  years  without 
any  direct  communication  with  England.  An  agreement  was 
made  with  the  owners  of  the  Royal  Admiral,  a  vessel 
engaged  in  carrying  convicts  to  Port  Jackson,  to  carry  out 
twelve  missionaries  to  reinforce  the  South  Sea  Mission. 
She  was  to  call  first  at  Port  Jackson,  and  then  go  on  to 
Tahiti  and  Tongatabu.  The  original  idea  had  been  to 
strengthen  the  missions  at  both  of  these  islands,  also  the 
Marquesas,  and  four  of  the  missionaries  were  commissioned 
to  open  a  new  mission  at  the  Sandwich  Islands.  The  latter 
plan  had  to  be  abandoned,  as  the  Royal  Admiral  was 
unable  to  proceed  to  that  group  of  islands.  Crook's  return 
to  England  before  the  Royal  Admiral  sailed  suspended 
the  Marquesas  Mission,  and  finally  only  twelve  new  men 
embarked.  In  the  Report  presented  on  May  14,  i8co,  the 
Directors  say,  and  their  words  reflect  doubtless  with 
accuracy  the  general  opinion  at  that  date  : — 

'  The  consideration  of  the  great  attention  already  paid 
to  the  introduction  of  missions  into  the  islands  of  the  South 
Seas,  and  the  uncertainty  we  are  in  as  to  their  eventual 
success,  led  us  to  conclude  that  it  will  be  prudent  to  suspend 
any  further  proceedings  or  determinations  respecting  those 
regions,  till  we  receive  such  ample  information  from  thence 
as  may  throw  light  upon  our  future  path.  We  have  com- 
plied with  what  we  esteemed  our  duty,  in  making  an 
attempt  there  upon  an  extensive  scale  ;  but  as  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  Gospel  in  heathen  countries  is  a  blessing 
too  high  and  important  to  rest  on  human  volitions  or 
exertions,  we  now  think  it  incumbent  on  us   to  wait   the 

I.  F 


66        THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:   1795-1820 

intimations  of  divine  Providence,  and  to  regulate  our  future 
proceedings  accordingly.  On  the  return  of  the  Royal 
Admiral,  we  may  hope  to  receive  such  comprehensive 
information  from  Captain  Wilson  as  will  assist  our  judg- 
ments to  decide  on  future  measures.' 

The  capture  of  the  Duff  as  just  narrated,  and  the  disas- 
trous tidings  also  which  came  to  hand  from  Tahiti,  led  to 
Mr.  Bogue's  appointment  as  tutor  to  the  missionary  students. 
His  biographer  tells  us:  — 

'  On  another  point,  also,  he  differed  from  some  who  were 
ardently  attached  to  the   Missionary  Society.     He  enter- 
tained  higher  ideas  of  the  qualifications  of  missionaries  ; 
and  while  many  thought  that  such  men  as  were  to  be  found 
in  the  ranks  of  the  Christian  church  were  fit  to  be  sent  to 
teach  the  heathen,  he  considered  it  necessary  to  call  them 
out  of  the   ranks,  and  at  once  prove  and  improve  them, 
previously  to    sending   them    to    the    ends    of  the    earth. 
Some  of  those  who  embarked  on  the  second  voyage  to  the 
South  Seas  had   been   allured   by  the   flattering  accounts 
given  of  the  first.     But  those  who  quit  their  native  shores 
from  impure  and  inferior  motives,  will  generally  betray  the 
fatal  secret  before  they  reach  the  opposite  coast  ;  for  a  long 
voyage  plucks  off  masks,  and  makes  fellow-passengers  well 
known  to   each  other.     It  was   therefore  manifest,  before 
the   Duff  had   proceeded  far  on   its  voyage,  that  another 
vessel  was  needed  to  fetch  back  those  who  ought  not  to  go 
to    the   heathen.     Heaven    kindly   sent    one :    it   was    the 
Grand  Buonaparte   French   privateer,  which  overtook   the 
unfit  adventurers  on  the  eastern  shore  of  South  America, 
and  sent  them  home  again.     This  seasonable  interposition 
of  Providence  demands  our  gratitude,  not  only  for  arresting 
those  who  might  have  blasted  all  the  hopes  of  that  harvest 
which  the  first  labourers  have  so  abundantly  reaped,  but 
also  for  rendering  this  discovery  of  the  unfitness  of  some 
a  lesson  of  wisdom  to  the  Society,  which  has  since  taken 
better  care  to  send  none  but  well  qualified  men  ^.' 

In  the  year  i  789,  by  the  advice  and  with  the  help  of  well- 

^   The  Life  of  David  Bogue,  p.  217. 


BOGUE  TUTOR    TO  MISSIONARY  STUDENTS    67 

to-do  friends,  Mr.  Bogue  had  begun  at  Gosport  an  academy 
for  training  theological  students  intended  for  the  Indepen- 
dent ministry.  Here  not  a  few  able  ministers  came  under 
his  influence,  notably  Dr.  Bennett,  the  father  of  Sir  Risdon 
Bennett,  and  John  Angell  James,  the  famous  minister  of 
Carr's  Lane  Chapel.  Birmingham. 

The  steps  by  which  this  new  responsibility  came  to  be 
placed  upon  Mr.  Bogue  were  the  following.  Mr.  Haldane, 
baulked  in  his  purpose  of  visiting  India,  soon  found  other 
methods  of  employing  his  missionary  fervour.  On 
February  24,  i8co,  a  letter  from  him  was  read  to  the 
Board  offering  ;^200  towards  the  starting  of  a  seminary  for 
missionary  students.  On  April  28  a  second  letter  from 
him  was  read,  offering  '  a  donation  of  ;^5co  from  him  and 
Mr.  Spear  of  Manchester,  if  .such  a  plan  be  adopted  as  they 
approve.'  The  Board  at  once  appointed  a  committee, 
consisting  of  Messrs.  Waugh,  Wilks,  Hardcastle,  Durant, 
Nicol,  Haweis,  and  Eyre,  'to  draw  up  the  outline  of  a  plan, 
and  present  the  same  to  the  Directors.'  This  committee  on 
May  5,  1800,  presented  a  most  instructive  report  to  the 
Board.  It  is  entered  in  the  old  minute-book  in  the  neat 
and  legible  handwriting  of  John  Eyre. 

'  The  Committee  appointed  to  consider  Mr.  Haldane's 
letter,  and  to  draw  up  the  outline  of  a  plan  for  missionary 
instruction,  delivered  the  following  report : — 

'  The  Committee  appointed  to  draw  up  the  outline  of 
a  plan  of  a  seminary  for  the  instruction  of  missionaries — 
on  maturely  considering  the  nature  of  the  qualifications 
which  different  missions  require,  and  also  the  various 
talents  which  arc  occasionally  necessary  in  the  same 
mission,  and  reflecting  also  on  the  sum  which  it  would  be 
advisable  for  the  Society  to  appropriate  to  this  object — are 
of  opinion,  that  the  Society,  continuing  to  act  upon  an 
extensive  scale,  arc  incompetent,  as  to  their  funds,  to 
afford  a  course  of  academical  instructions  beyond  a  limited 
number  of  individuals  ;  and  that,  with  respect  to  the  rest, 
the  present  mode  of  communicating  religious  improvement, 
by  a  Committee  of  Ministers,  is  highly  advantageous  and 

F  2 


68         THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 

ought  to  be  continued.  The  same  principle  appHes  to 
those  accepted  missionaries  who  reside  in  the  country,  and 
Avhose  progress  in  reHgious  knowledge  and  devotedness  to 
this  peculiar  service  must  be  the  charge  of  one  or  more  of 
those  ministers,  in  their  vicinity,  who  arc  in  connection  with 
the  Society. 

'  The  Committee  also  strongly  recommend  two  things  in 
reference  to  this  description  of  missionaries. 

*(i)  That,  in  general,  a  year  should  elapse,  from  the  date 
of  their  acceptance  to  their  actual  entrance  on  the  work 
itself,  in  order  that  their  characters  may  be  more  fully 
ascertained,  their  minds  more  enlarged  by  appropriate 
instruction,  and  their  stability  more  satisfactorily  proved, 
or  full  opportunity  given  them  to  change  their  purpose. 
It  is,  however,  admitted  that  particular  cases  may  occur  in 
which  missionaries  may  be  so  well  known  and  their 
qualifications  so  well  ascertained  as  to  justify  the  Directors 
in  sending  them  out  without  any  limitation  of  time. 

'  (2)  That  they  should  carry  with  them  some  acquaintance 
with  agriculture,  or  those  branches  of  mechanics  which 
admit  of  an  useful  application  in  uncivilized  countries  ;  as 
it  has  frequently  occurred  that  those  working  tradesmen 
who  have  offered  themseK^es,  although  possessed  of  the 
knowledge  of  arts  very  useful  in  the  extended  and  refined 
state  of  things  here,  have  been  entirely  unacquainted  with 
the  sorts  of  knowledge  adapted  to  a  country  altogether 
rude  and  barbarous,  and  which  occasion  the  first  move- 
ments towards  civilization.  Such  persons,  being  also 
unqualified  for  the  higher  branches  of  missionary  duty,  are 
unfit  to  be  sent  out  till  they  have  acquired  that  degree  of  agri- 
culture or  mechanical  knowledge  which  is  here  referred  to. 

'  But  although  a  high  degree  of  intellectual  improvement 
cannot  be  communicated  to  all  the  missionaries,  and  it  be 
admitted  that  without  it  many  may  be  of  great  service  in 
particular  branches  of  duty,  yet  it  is  also  certain  that 
a  proportion  of  them  ought  to  possess  superior  talents  and 
more  extensive  knowledge  than  has  yet  been  found,  with 
the  exception   of  a  few  among   those   who   have   offered 


REPORT  ON  MISSIONARY  TRAINING,   ISOO       69 

themselves  to  our  Society,  or  than  can  be  communicated 
to  them  by  the  present  plan,  which  engages  only  a  small 
portion  of  the  short  space  they  usually  enjoy  the  advantage 
of  it.  A  mission  to  India  or  any  other  civilized  country 
requires  to  be  undertaken  by  men  whose  understandings 
have  received  considerable  enlargement  by  a  previous 
attention  for  a  longer  term  to  the  sources  of  knowledge. 
And  those  who  are  designed  for  uncivilized  nations  should 
contain  some  among  them  who  are  qualified  to  take 
a  direction  and  preside  in  some  degree  over  their  brethren. 
On  these  accounts  the  Committee  think  it  would  be 
a  prudent  and  beneficial  measure  to  appropriate  out  of  the 
funds  of  the  Society  an  annual  sum  not  exceeding  ;^500, 
for  the  purpose  of  imparting  a  judicious  missionary  educa- 
tion to  a  certain  number,  whose  natural  endowments  and 
devotedness  of  heart  point  them  out  as  suitable  persons  to 
receive  this  advantage. 

'  If  this  suggestion  should  be  adopted,  it  will  be  requisite 
to  consider  in  what  way  the  sum  specified  can  be  most 
usefully  employed.  And  the  Committee  are  decidedly  of 
opinion  that  it  would  be  inexpedient  to  purchase  or  hire, 
on  their  own  account,  any  house  or  building  for  this 
purpose,  as  that  would  unavoidably  be  connected  with  an 
establishment  far  too  expensive  for  this  limited  plan.  They 
also  think  that,  on  the  ground  of  economy,  and  in  order 
that  the  attention  of  the  students  may  be  subject  to  as 
little  interruption  as  possible,  a  situation  remote  from  the 
Metropolis  is  to  be  preferred.  They  therefore  recommend 
that  a  suitable  instructor  in  the  country  may  be  selected 
for  this  purpose,  whose  attachment  to  this  cause,  as  well  as 
talents  for  this  service,  may  be  approved  by  the  Directors. 
And,  as  it  will  be  extremely  desirable  that  they  should  all 
acquire  a  knowledge  of  surgery  and  the  medical  art,  the 
situation  will  doubtless  be  fixed  upon  with  particular 
reference  to  this  important  circumstance. 

'  It  is  not  the  design  of  the  Committee  to  suggest  at  this 
time  an  accurate  plan  or  system  of  instruction  for  these 
students.     That  will  be  a  proper  subject  of  consideration 


70         THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

after  the  measure  itself  is  adopted.  They  propose  there- 
fore to  give  only  their  general  impressions  on  this  subject. 

'  The  communication  of  knowledge,  and  the  formation  or 
rather  strengthening  of  good  dispositions,  will  be  the 
leading  objects  of  this  institution.  With  respect  to  the 
former,  although  it  be  admitted  that  some  acquaintance 
with  the  enlarged  circle  of  the  sciences  in  their  principles 
and  relations  may  be  requisite,  and  it  may  therefore  be 
desirable  to  acquire  at  least  the  knowledge  of  their  rudi- 
ments, yet  as  our  design  is  not  to  form  mathematicians,  philo- 
sophers, or  even  linguists,  it  would  be  unwise  to  appropriate 
a  great  portion  of  their  limited  term  to  these  inquiries. 

'AH  knowledge  may  perhaps  be  useful,  but  not  in  the 
same  degree  ;  and  as  it  is  Scriptural  knowledge  that  is  the 
desirable  qualification  for  a  Christian  missionary,  the  direc- 
tion of  their  studies  will  point  more  directly  towards  this 
great  object. 

'  Whether  the  time  allotted  them  to  pursue  their  studies, 
and  their  attention  to  other  subjects,  will  admit  of  their 
acquiring  a  knowledge  of  the  languages  in  which  the  holy 
Scriptures  were  written,  we  do  not  determine.  Our  desire 
is  to  communicate  to  them  a  sound  judgment  and  compre- 
hensive acquaintance  with  the  principles  of  divine  revelation, 
rather  than  to  give  them  the  talents  for  criticism,  or  perplex 
them  with  unedifying  controversies  which  have  disturbed 
the  peace,  without  promoting  the  knowledge,  the  faith,  or 
the  charity  of  the  Christian  Church. 

'  It  is,  however,  not  only  Christian  knowledge  in  general 
that  they  are  intended  to  acquire.  They  must  attend  especi- 
ally to  missionary  subjects.  The  lectures  delivered  to  them 
must  have  this  point  continually  in  view.  Their  reading 
and  course  of  study  must  have  this  direction.  Their  whole 
education  must  be  missionary,  and  therefore  conducted  on 
a  plan  dissimilar  from  other  seminaries,  and  even  from  those 
where  the  Christian  ministry  in  this  country  is  the  object. 

'  The  communication  of  Christian  and  missionary  know- 
ledge must  be  connected  with  the  promotion  of  similar 
dispositions  in  the  heart.     This  is  to  be  the  principal  point 


REPORT  ON  MISSIONARY   TRAINING,   ISOO        71 

aimed  at  in  the  intended  institution.  While  in  other  semi- 
naries they  are  attending  to  the  principles  of  logic,  the  rules 
of  composition,  the  rudiments  of  language  or  of  science, 
which  are  admitted  to  be  useful  in  the  stations  which  those 
students  are  intended  to  occupy,  in  ours,  the  instructions 
must  chiefly  refer  to  the  heart,  and  instead  of  cherishing 
the  desire  of  shining  in  the  world  by  distinguished  talents, 
must  aim  at  subduing  every  elating  thought,  and  at  morti- 
fying the  vain  propensities  of  our  nature.  Our  students 
are  to  learn  how  they  may  be  patient  and  submissive  under 
disappointments,  persevering  under  long  discouragements, 
ready  to  meet  sufferings  or  even  death,  if  such  should  be 
the  divine  appointment.  The  education  of  a  missionary  is 
to  prepare  him  for  a  work  in  which  he  must  calculate  on 
labour  and  danger,  opposition  and  reproach.  When  he  leaves 
his  native  country  and  friends,  and  goes  forth  to  seek  the 
salvation  of  the  untutored  heathen,  he  is  to  take  this  for  his 
motto,"  I  am  crucified  to  the  world,  and  the  world  is  cruci- 
fied to  me,"  and  therefore  the  great  scope  and  tendency  of 
the  instruction  he  is  to  receive  are  to  impress  upon  his 
heart  the  self-denying  principle,  as  it  relates  to  temporal 
things  and  animates  the  springs  of  faith  and  hope  in  respect 
to  the  future  world.  Thus  he  may  be  expected  to  unite 
great  activity  with  great  meekness,  faith  with  patience,  and 
at  length,  w^e  trust,  great  success  with  humility  and  praise. 

'  This  is  the  outline  of  the  plan  which  appears  to  us 
desirable  to  be  pursued  in  reference  to  the  instruction  of 
those  who  may  be  selected  to  receive  its  advantages,  and 
who  for  the  space  of  two  years  should  be  entirely  devoted 
to  this  object,  from  which  we  are  encouraged  to  expect  that 
very  beneficial  effects  will  arise,  both  to  the  Society  itself 
and  to  the  cause  of  Christ  among  the  heathen. 

'As  the  execution  of  this  plan,  how^ever,  will  be  attended 
with  the  expense  already  mentioned,  it  will  be  incumbent 
to  the  Directors  to  adopt  reasonable  and  prudent  measures 
to  secure  and  limit  its  advantages  to  the  institution  which 
supports  it.  It  must  be  admitted  that,  even  in  sincere 
minds,   there   may   remain   some  degree  of  constitutional 


J2. 


THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 


flexibility,  under  the  influence  of  which  some  of  our 
students  may,  on  finishing  their  studies,  be  indu/ced  to 
prefer  that  the  exercise  of  their  ministry  should  be  in  this 
country  rather  than  among  the  heathen.  In  this  or  other 
cases  which  may  probably  occur,  the  funds  of  the  Society 
would  be  applied  perhaps  to  a  useful  purpose,  but  yet  in  an 
illegitimate  and  unauthorized  channel,  and  remote  from  the 
design  of  the  in  titution.  To  guard  against  this  deviation 
and  yet  to  preserve  that  freedom  of  mind  which  it  is 
desirable  that  a  missionary  should  possess,  the  Committee 
recommend  that,  previously  to  the  admission  of  a  student 
into  their  seminary,  he  should  be  required  to  subscribe 
a  solemn  declaration  that  his  sincere  intention  and  his  sole 
object  in  applying  for  this  instruction  are  that  he  may 
devote  him.self,  as  a  missionary  of  our  Society,  to  the  service 
of  Christ  in  heathen  or  other  unenlightened  countries.  And 
he  should  come  under  a  legal  obligation  also  to  be  person- 
ally responsible  for  all  the  expense  to  which  the  Society 
shall  have  been  subject  on  his  account,  provided  he  refuses 
or  in  any  way  declines  to  embark  and  continue  for  a  speci- 
fied time  in  the  missionary  work  of  our  institution. 

(Signed) 

'Joseph  Hardcastle,  Thomas  Haweis, 

Alexr.  Waugh,  George  Durant, 

John  Eyre,  Mattw.  Wilks.' 

At  the  general  meeting  held  on  May  16,  1800,  it  was 
resolved  '  That  a  sum  of  money,  not  exceeding  ;^5oo  per 
annum,  be  appropriated  to  the  education  and  general 
improvement  of  a  certain  number  of  missionaries  for  the 
space  of  two  years,  subject  to  such  enlargement  or 
diminution  in  particular  cases  in  respect  to  time  as  to  the 
majority  of  the  Directors  should  be  deemed  expedient 
previous  to  their  active  entrance  upon  the  work  which  may 
be  assigned  to  them.' 

At  the  Board  meeting  on  July  21,  i8co,  it  was  resolved  :  — 

I.  'That  the  sum  of  ^^500  which  Messrs.  Haldane  and 

Spear  have  the  intention  of  giving  to  this  Institution  shall, 


BOGUE'S  METHOD   OF  INSTRUCTION  73 

agreeably  to  the  desire  of  Mr.  Haldane,  be  applied,  so  far 
as  it  reaches,  to  enlarge  the  number  of  pupils. 

2.  'That  the  Rev.  Mr.  Bogue  shall  be  invited  to  undertake 
the  office  of  tutor.' 

The  minutes  for  August  4,  ]  8co,  contain  the  following  : — 
'A  letter  from  the  Rev.  Mr.  Bogue  was  read,  stating  his 
willingness  to  accept  the  office  of  Tutor  to  the  Missionary 
Seminary  in  consequence  of  the  invitation  of  the  Committee. 
It  was  received  with  universal  satisfaction.'  In  this  way 
the  chief  problem  connected  with  education  was  settled  for 
some  years.  And  from  this  time  the  academy  at  Gosport 
sent  out  more  workers  to  the  foreign  than  to  the  home 
field.  In  describing  Mr.  Bogue's  method  of  discharging 
his  new  duties.  Dr.  Bennett  writes — 

'  For  this  purpose,  the  tutor  drew  up  appropriate  courses 
of  lectures  ;  and  his  oral  instructions  showed  how  near 
missions  lay  to  his  heart,  and  how  anxious  he  was  to  see 
such  men  go  forth  as  Christ  might  not  disdain  to  own  for 
His  "  ambassadors  to  the  Gentiles."  The  duties  and 
dangers  of  missionaries  were  exhibited  in  the  happiest 
way ;  and  the  spirit  in  which  they  should  be  met  was  so 
pointed  out  as  powerfully  to  inspire  the  vital  principle  of 
a  good  missionary.  But  the  chair  of  the  professor  in  the 
missionary  college  was  not  always  furnished  with  a  velvet 
cushion.  The  formation  of  the  seminary  was  the  work  of 
a  majority  only,  and  a  minority  is  not  always  able  to  yield 
with  a  good  grace.  There  have  not  ceased  to  be  men  of 
influence  in  the  Society,  who  sincerely  think  that  the  best 
education  for  missionaries  is  none  at  all  ;  and  the  next  best 
is  that  which  consists  in  teaching  them  to  make  wheel- 
barrows and  plant  turnips,  rendering  them  useful  mechanics 
and  agriculturists  rather  than  good  divines  or  preachers. 
David  Bogue.  however,  was  deeply  convinced  that  Christ, 
instead  of  sending  His  apostles  to  learn  to  catch  fish,  called 
them  away  from  ships  and  nets  to  follow  Him,  and  learn 
to  become  fishers  of  men  ^.' 

*    The  Life  of  the  Kev.  Tavid  Bopie^  D.D.,  p.  210. 


74         THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

In  later  days,  as  we  shall  see,  the  Society  followed 
various  methods,  at  times  supporting  institutions  of  its 
own,  but  gradually  coming  to  the  wise  plan  of  utilizing  as 
far  as  possible  for  their  purpose  the  educational  facilities  of 
the  best  theological  colleges  of  the  day. 

Many  of  the  ablest  early  missionaries  on  the  Society's 
staff  were  trained  under  Mr.  Bogue.  In  proof  of  this  it  is 
only  needful  to  recall  such  names  as  William  Charles 
Loveless  of  Madras,  Robert  Morrison,  John  Wray,  Carl 
Pacalt  of  South  Africa,  John  Hands  of  Bellary,  Robert 
May  of  Chinsurah,  William  Milne,  William  Ellis,  Richard 
Knill,  William  Reeve,  and  Charles  Mead  of  South  India, 
David  Jones  and  David  Griffiths  of  Madagascar.  Few 
colleges  have  so  noble  a  record  as  the  small  homely  but 
fruitful  seminary,  dominated  for  so  many  years  by  the 
strong  personality  of  its  principal.  Here  and  there  in  the 
minutes  incidents  both  amusing  and  instructive  crop  up  in 
connection  with  the  life  there.  For  example,  on  July  29, 
1805,  it  was  resolved  'that  five  pounds  per  annum,  in 
addition  to  thirty  pounds  already  allowed,  be  paid  for  the 
board  and  lodging  of  each  student  at  Gosport,  and  two 
guineas  per  annum  be  allowed  each  student  for  pocket- 
money.'  There  were  no  college  buildings  at  Gosport,  and 
so  each  student  had  to  find  his  own  lodgings  in  the  town. 
On  July  9,  1804,  'a  letter  from  Mr.  Morrison,  a  student  at 
Gosport,  was  read  and  referred  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Waugh  to 
prepare  an  answer  on  the  subject  of  marriage,  with  a  view 
that  the  substance  of  it  be  entered  on  the  minutes  as 
a  precedent  to  govern  the  Directors  on  any  future  occasion 
of  a  similar  nature.'  Mr.  Waugh  lost  no  time  in  settling 
this  weighty  matter,  and  on  September  10  the  fateful 
minute  is  duly  recorded.  It  runs:  '  It  is  the  opinion  of  the 
Directors,  that  no  missionary,  while  under  their  care  and 
living  in  this  country,  ought  to  form  any  connection  with 
a  young  woman  leading  to  marriage,  or  raise  any  expecta- 
tions in  her  mind  of  that  estate,  without  previously 
consulting  and  obtaining  the  expHcit  approbation  of  the 
Directors.' 


WIDESPREAD  MISSIONARY  INTEREST  75 

Turning  to  another  aspect  of  the  early  influence  of  the 
Society,  the  student  of  its  history  is  struck  by  the  deep 
and  widespread  interest  its  operations  aroused.  Not  only 
in  the  United  Kingdom  but  in  many  parts  of  the  Continent 
of  Europe,  and  on  the  other  side  of  the  wide  Atlantic, 
devout  souls  had  been  longing  for  some  such  manifestation 
of  God's  presence  and  power  among  men.  In  Edinburgh 
and  Glasgow  the  Society's  example  led  to  the  formation 
of  organizations  which  were  anxious  to  co-operate  in  work 
in  the  foreign  field.  The  Moravian  missionaries  had  been 
at  work  for  many  years,  and  although  the  great  Wesleyan 
Society  had  not  yet  taken  that  organized  form  in  which 
it  has  been  known  to  the  last  three  generations,  Wesleyan 
missionaries  had  gone  forth  to  America  and  the  West  Indies. 
The  broad  catholicity  of  the  London  Missionary  Society 
movement  naturally  brought  it  at  once  into  connection  with 
all  these  and  kindred  associations  of  Christian  workers.  The 
early  minutes  abound  in  proofs  of  this.  For  example,  as 
early  as  September  29,  1795,  resolutions  were  adopted  that 
a  full  account  of  the  foundation  of  the  Society  should  be  sent 
to  ministers  and  friends  in  Scotland,  and  to  all  Foreign 
l^rotestant  Churches  seeking  their  co-operation.  The 
response  from  all  was  prompt  and  hearty.  Most  of  the 
local  societies  in  Scotland,  organized  soon  after  the  founda- 
tion of  the  Missionary  Society,  became  auxiliaries  of  the 
London  Society  ;  while  on  the  Continent,  from  places  as 
far  apart  as  Rotterdam  and  Basle,  Frankfort  and  Norrko- 
ping,  letters  of  sympathy  and  liberal  contributions  came 
promptly  in  response  to  this  appeal.  Here  are  a  few 
extracts  from  the  minutes  in  proof  of  this  : — 

March  14,  1796.  '  A  very  friendly  communication  having 
been  received  some  time  ago  from  the  Associate  Synod 
of  the  Burgher  denominations  in  Scotland  ;  Resolved, 
that  an  answer  be  written  by  the  Secretary  for  Foreign 
Correspondence  expressing  the  satisfaction  which  the 
Society  feels  in  the  view  of  the  approbation  and  con- 
currence of  so  respectable  a  body  of  Christian  ministers.' 

May  4,  1796.     'A  general  address  and  some  information 


76         THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 

on  the  subject  of  Missions  was  read  from  the  Missionary 
Society  at  Paisley,  and  it  was  resolved  that  the  Directors 
embrace  with  cordial  regard  their  brethren  at  Paisley,  and 
are  happy  to  express  their  delight  in  associating  them  with 
us  in  the  great  labour  of  love.' 

May  13,  1796  (General  Meeting).  'Resolved,  that  this 
Society  receives  with  great  satisfaction  the  letters  from  our 
Christian  brethren  in  Scotland,  and  appoint  their  Secretary, 
Mr.  Love,  to  signify  to  them  their  cordial  assent  to  the 
proposal  they  have  made  of  correspondence,  union,  and 
co-operation.' 

September  12,  1796.  'A  letter  from  the  Aberdeen 
Missionary  Society  was  read,  requesting  the  correspon- 
dence and  co-operation  of  this  Society.' 

November  28,  1796.  'Dr.  Haweis  read  a  letter  he  had 
written  to  Mr.  Mortimer,  Secretary  to  the  Associated  Body 
of  Lutheran  Ministers  in  Germany.' 

January  22,  1798.  'A  letter  from  Dr.  Vanderkemp  to 
Dr.  Haweis  was  read,  giving  information  that  several 
thousand  copies  of  this  Society's  address  to  the  Christian 
people  of  Holland  had  been  printed,  and  read  with  great 
avidity  :  and  that  a  Society  had  been  formed  at  Rotterdam, 
named  the  Netherland  Missionary  Society,  the  Secretary 
of  which,  in  due  time,  would  correspond  with  the  Directors.' 

February  12,  1798.  'A  letter  from  the  Rev.  Mr.  Mason, 
Secretary  to  the  Missionary  Society  at  New  York,  addressed 
to  Mr.  Love,  was  read,  communicating  the  good  wishes 
of  that  Society,  and  soliciting  such  intelligence  as  might 
prove  useful  to  them.' 

March  1  1,  1799.  'Three  foreign  letters  were  then  read, 
one  from  P'rankfort,  with  a  remittance  of  £%^  ^s.  for  the 
use  of  the  Society ;  another  from  the  committee  at  Basle 
inclosing  a  note  for  ;^133  1.$".  ^d. ;  and  another  from  Baron 
von  Shirnding,  offering  to  send  missionaries  to  Nootka 
Sound  and  Africa,  and  to  co-operate  cordially  with  the 
Society ;  which  were  all  referred  to  the  Committee  of 
P^oreign  Correspondence.' 

April  29,  1799.    '  The  Treasurer  presented  a  letter  which 


HELP  FROM  LOCAL   SOCIETIES  77 

he  had  received  from  the  Missionary  Society  at  Edinburgh 
with  a  remittance  of  ;^40o.  A  letter  from  the  Rev.  Olavus 
J.  Sundelin  of  Xorrkoping,  in  the  province  of  Gotland,  in 
Sweden,  was  read  ;  and  another  from  the  Rev.  Melchior 
Esslinger  of  Zurich,  expressing  their  approbation  of  our 
institution  and  their  good  wishes  for  its  success.  A  letter 
also  from  the  Committee  of  Foreign  Correspondence  to 
the  Societ}^  De  fide  et  CJiristianismo  in  Sweden  was  read 
and  approved.' 

These  extracts — and  they  are  only  samples  of  a  large 
number  in  the  early  archives  of  the  Society — illustrate  the 
wide  area  over  which  the  revived  interest  in  Christian 
missions  extended  at  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth 
century.  The  societies  in  Edinburgh,  Basle,  Rotterdam, 
East  P^riesland,  and  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope  continued 
for  some  years  not  only  to  contribute  considerable  sums  to 
the  parent  Society,  but  also,  as  we  shall  see,  especially  in 
South  Africa,  to  support  missionaries  who  were  upon  the 
Society's  staff.  It  is  to  be  regretted,  from  the  point  of 
view  of  the  Society,  that  the  multiplication  of  local  and 
denominational  agencies  has  during  the  century  somewhat 
contracted  the  sphere  of  the  Society's  influence.  At  the 
same  time  all  true  friends  of  Christian  missions  rejoice  in 
the  enormous  extension  of  the  work  which  has  been 
brought  about  by  this  development. 

These  early  records  are  also  very  instructive  in  their 
treatment  of  finance,  and  of  administrative  matters.  The 
method  of  electing  Directors  necessarily  claimed  earh* 
attention,  and  for  some  time  those  to  go  off  each  year  were 
determined  by  lot.  There  is  no  clear  proof  of  what  one 
surmises  from  scanning  the  records,  that  this  method  was 
followed  in  the  belief  that  God  would  be  led  more  directly 
to  superintend  the  selection  when  made  in  this  fashion. 
Experience,  however,  proved  that  the  lot  occasionally 
removed  the  most  zealous  and  useful  workers  ;  and  after 
a  not  very  lengthy  trial  this  method  was  dropped.  Vo\' 
example,  the  first  time  it  was  used,  in  i  797,  Mr.  Hardcastle 
was    excluded.       It    is    significant    that    the    minute    im- 


78         THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1S20 

mediately  following  runs  :   '  the  Treasurer  shall  always  be 
a  Director.' 

Finance  was  relegated  to  one  of  the  five  special 
committees  constituted  October  2,  1795.  The  duties  of 
the  committee  were  defined  in  a  minute  passed  on 
October  12.  'The  Committee  of  Funds  are  to  devise 
proper  methods  for  augmenting  and  collecting  supplies, 
and  depositing  them  in  the  hands  of  the  Treasurer ;  they 
are  to  correspond  with  distant  members  of  their  own 
committee  as  circumstances  may  require,  assigning  par- 
ticular districts  to  individuals,  and  requesting  them  to 
preach  in  any  or  all  of  the  associated  congregations  within 
those  districts,  whenever  it  may  be  expedient  to  have 
recourse  to  general  collections.'  In  this,  as  in  all  other 
matters,  the  first  Directors  had  to  feel  their  way,  and  it  was 
many  years  before  anything  like  modern  scientific  method 
was  applied  to  missionary  finance.  In  the  work  of  winning 
the  heathen  world  for  Jesus  Christ  money  is  essential ;  but 
money  is  by  no  means  that  prime  factor  which  it  has 
sometimes  appeared  even  to  energetic  and  devout  helpers 
of  the  work.  Many  men  of  first-rate  business  abilities  have 
been  from  the  first  connected  with  the  Board  of  Directors. 
They  have  had  their  full  and  legitimate  influence  in  the 
conduct  of  affairs — sometimes  too  much  influence,  in  the 
opinion  of  competent  judges — and  they  have  on  the  whole 
exercised  it  with  great  energy  and  wisdom.  Yet  the 
experience  of  the  past,  no  less  than  the  best-developed 
theory  and  practice  of  mission  .vork  to-day,  enforces  the  view 
that  a  great  missionary  society  cannot  be  run  exactly  along 
the  lines  of  a  large  wholesale  house  of  business.  Visions 
at  times  floated  before  some  of  the  Directors  a  century  ago 
of  a  society  that  could  be  made  at  least  largely  to  pay  its 
own  way.  The  missionary  ships  were  to  carry  out  cargoes 
of  missionaries,  and  recoup  the  Society  through  the  return 
cargoes  of  merchandise.  And  there  was  some  very  tangible 
basis  for  such  visions.  But  the  Society  never  for  any  long 
period  has  paid  its  way,  or  been  free  from  deficits.  The 
least  satisfactory  periods  in  the  Society's  life  have  been 


THE  FAITH  OF   THE  FOUNDERS  79 

those  in  which  the  Directors  thought  more  of  paying  their 
way  than  of  saving  the  world,  and  scrutinized  their  balance- 
sheet  more  closely  than  the  promises  and  the  commands  of 
the  Gospel. 

In  the  early  days  faith,  enthusiasm,  generous  contribution 
on  the  part  of  individuals,  desire  to  share  in  so  novel  a  form 
of  Christian  service,  all  played  their  part  in  swelling  the 
sums  available  for  aggressive  work.  And  not  the  least 
significant  fact  in  this  connection  is  that  the  fathers  in  every 
case  decided  upon  the  work  to  be  done,  settled  the  new 
held  of  missionary  enterprise,  selected  and  set  apart  the 
workers,  accepted,  in  short,  the  fullest  responsibility,  before 
they  had  fully  worked  out  the  financial  problem.  And 
history  has  justified  them.  When  men  become  fellow- 
workers  with  Him  whose  word  is  'the  silver  and  the  gold 
are  Mine,'  the  work  to  be  done,  the  quality  of  the  workers. 
the  faith,  love,  and  zeal  which  govern  all  who  co-operate, 
the  motive  that  lies  at  the  basis  of  every  action — '  freely 
ye  have  received,  freely  give ' — these  are  all-important. 
Having  these,  God  sends  the  funds  ;  without  these,  all  the 
money  of  the  world  is  powerless  to  save  a  heathen  soul. 

Our  fathers,  between  1795  and  1820,  dispatched  the 
Duff,  sent  Vanderkemp  to  Africa,  began  work  in  India, 
the  West  Indies,  China,  Java,  Siberia.  Canada,  and  other 
parts  of  the  world.  They  rapidly  opened  one  mission  after 
another,  and  when  the  workers  had  started  for  the  field 
they  turned  their  attention  to  the  successful  organization 
of  finance.  In  the  opinion  of  many  contemporaries  and 
of  some  of  their  own  sympathizers  this  was  unbusinesslike 
and  Quixotic.  But  the  missions  have  prospered,  and  the 
funds  have  come.  Generous  personal  subscriptions  and 
the  collections  made  by  various  bodies  of  ministers  and 
laymen  in  different  parts  of  the  country  were  the  main 
sources  of  revenue.  Sometimes  the  receipts  were  aug- 
mented from  quite  novel  and  unexpected  quarters.  The 
minute-book  for  May  12,  1800,  contains  the  following 
record  : — 

'Mr.  Cook  presented   the  sum  of  i)i8  i6.i\  from  Messrs. 


3o         THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 

Jones,  Witherick,  Beiinie,  Craig,  Chapman,  and  Dunn,  sea- 
men on  board  H.  M.  Ship  Bellerophon,  as  a  donation  to 
the  Society,  being  the  first  division  of  their  prize  money 
arising  from  the  victory  obtained  over  the  French  Fleet  ofif 
Egypt  on  August  i,  179B,  under  the  command  of  Lord 
Nelson.  It  was  also  intimated  that  more  would  follow. 
Resolved,  that  the  Directors  receive  the  above  donation  of 
the  seamen  with  the  most  lively  sense  of  their  zeal  and 
love  to  the  cause  of  Christ ;  and  request  that  Mr.  Cook 
would  intimate  to  them  the  great  cordiality  and  esteem  of 
the  Directors,  as  soon  as  possible.' 

The  Duff  cost  nearly  ;^5,ooo,  and  an  equal  sum  was 
spent  in  fitting  her  out.  A  considerable  part  of  this  cost 
was  recouped  by  the  sum  of  ^4,100  received  from  the 
East  India  Company  for  the  cargo  of  tea  she  brought  back 
from  China.  The  conditions  were  that  for  a  freight  of 
300  tons  the  Company  was  to  pay  £l6  per  ton,  and  half 
that  rate  for  as  many  tons  above  300  as  she  should  be  able 
to  carry.  In  the  accounts  for  1799,  it  is  recorded  that  the 
Directors  received  from  Mr.  Chapman,  their  printer,  i^2,ooo 
for  the  copyright  payment  on  the  account  of  the  first 
voyage  of  the  Duff,  he  receiving  a  discount  of  £4.6  os.  6d. 
'  for  prompt  payment.' 

As  early  as  1 803,  when  the  Society's  income  was  ;^3034, 
the  Directors  informed  the  constituents  that  '  the  disburse- 
ments of  the  past  year  have  greatly  exceeded  its  income, 
and  rendered  it  necessary  to  dispose  of  some  part  of  that 
property  which  the  Directors  would  have  been  glad  to  have 
retained  as  the  basis  of  its  permanent  support.'  Seven 
years  after,  the  income,  having  in  the  interval  more  than 
doubled,  began  to  decline,  and  again  the  statement  is  made 
that  '  as  our  missions  are  multiplied  and  many  more 
labourers  are  sent  forth,  especially  in  South  Africa  and 
the  East,  the  Society  will  require,  notwithstanding  the 
utmost  economy  in  the  management  of  their  affairs,  an 
augmented  income  to  meet  the  constantly-growing  ex- 
penditure.' From  that  day  to  the  present  there  has  been 
a  frequent  repetition  of  the  same  difficulty  and  the  same 


FIRST  LOCAL  AUXILIARIES  8f 

appeal,  while  again  and  again  response  has  been  given  in 
large  gifts  and  in  permanent  increase.  God  has  never  yet 
failed  His  servants. 

On  June  25,  1806.  a  Home  Committee  was  appointed 
for  the  management  of  all  the  internal  concerns  of  the 
Society  except  those  which  appertain  to  the  Committee  of 
Examination/  and  the  list  of  its  duties  begins : — 

'I.  The  Committee  shall  endeavour  to  attract  a  more 
general  attention  to  the  interests  of  the  Society  on  the 
part  of  the  public  by  means  of  a  more  extensive  circu- 
lation of  our  Reports,  Transactions,  &c. 

'  2.  To  promote  the  enlargement  of  the  Funds  by 
applications  to  ministers  for  public  collections  in  town  and 
country,  and  to  individuals  who  are  likely  to  aid  it. 

'  3.  To  inspect  all  accounts  of  expenditure  and  address 
them  for  payment  to  the  Treasurer.' 

Shortly  after  this,  although  no  minute  referring  to  it 
stands  in  the  books,  the  most  fruitful  method  of  sustaining 
and  augmenting  the  funds  was  adopted  by  the  appeal  to 
systematic  and  extensive  local  effort.  In  the  Evangelical 
Magazine  for  January,  1807,  there  is  an  article  headed 
'Missionary  Union'  which  gives  the  first  outline  of  local 
auxiliaries.  After  referring  to  the  work  of  the  Society, 
and  the  many  new  openings  before  it,  the  article  con- 
tinues : — 

'  To  accomplish  these  noble  purposes  it  is  proposed  to 
establish  Auxiliary  Societies  both  in  London  and  through- 
out the  country,  in  which  many  persons,  not  blessed  with 
affluence,  and  whose  convenience  it  would  not  suit  to 
become  Annual  Subscribers,  may  unite  their  efforts,  and  by 
small  but  regular  contributions  afford  a  valuable  assistance 
to  the  Society.  This  is  especially  desirable  in  those  places 
where  no  collections  are  regularly  made  for  this  institu- 
tion ;  and,  where  such  are  made,  the  amount  will  form 
a  respectable  addition  to  them. 

'  To  these  Societies  regular  communications  will  be  made 
from  the  Directors  of  the  Missionary  Society,  so  that  at 
their  meetings   the  state   and   progress   of   the    work   will 

I.  G 


82         THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 

be  made  known.  The  Transactions,  and  occasionally  other 
printed  accounts,  will  be  sent  free  of  expense.  By  these 
means,  not  only  will  the  Society  derive  a  valuable  pecuniary 
assistance,  but  the  prayers  of  thousands  of  God's  people 
will  be  engaged  for  the  success  of  missionary  efforts  ;  and, 
it  is  hoped,  the  heart  of  many  a  pious  youth  will  be  warmed 
with  holy  zeal  to  go  forth  to  the  heathen  with  the  good 
news  of  salvation.' 

Ten  regulations,  '  respectfully  offered  for  the  con- 
sideration of  the  religious  public,'  follow.  The  chief  of 
these  were  that  a  payment  of  one  shilling  a  quarter  should 
constitute  a  member,  a  Committee  should  be  organized, 
an  annual  meeting  held,  and  collectors  appointed.  All 
communications  to  be  addressed  to  Rev.  George  Burder  ; 
or  to  Mr.  D.  Langton,  Assistant  Secretary,  at  J.  Hard- 
castle's,  Esq.,  9  Old  Swan  Stairs,  London. 

In  the  Report  of  the  annual  meeting^  given  in  the  same 
volume  it  is  stated,  '  Some  observations  on  the  utility  of 
forming  Auxiliary  Societies  in  aid  of  the  funds  were  made, 
recommending  a  plan  which  appeared  in  this  magazine 
in  Jan.  last ;  printed  copies  of  which  were  dispersed 
among  the  ministers  for  the  use  of  their  congregations.' 
In  the  Report  for  1807  stands  this  paragraph  : — 

'The  plan  lately  proposed  for  annually  augmenting  the 
funds  by  means  of  Auxiliary  Societies  (in  which  the  poor 
of  the  flock,  by  the  periodical  contribution  of  small  sums, 
may  materially  enlarge  the  funds,  and  be  induced  by 
regular  information  in  their  stated  meetings  to  offer  up 
their  intercessions  for  the  prosperity  of  this  Institution) 
the  Directors  beg  leave  to  recommicnd  to  the  ministers 
of  Christ  who  honour  us  with  their  presence.' 

The  plan  thus  originated  slowly  but  surely  extended, 
and  has  ever  since  been  the  most  active  and  successful 
method  of  raising  the  annual  income.  The  first  reference 
to  the  actual  formation  of  such  an  Auxiliary  Society  that 
we  have  been  able  to  trace  occurs  at  the  end  of  the 
Report  for  1807  in  a  list  of  *  Sums  received  from  June  i  to 

*  Evangelical  Magazine,  1807,  p.  282. 


INFLUENCE   OF  AUXILIARY  SOCIETIES         83 

July  T,  1H07,'  and  it  runs,  'Auxiliary  Society  at  Rev. 
Mr.  Roby's,  Manchester,  i^ii  2s.'  In  the  list  at  the  end 
of  the  Report  for  1808  we  find  under  London,  'Auxiliary 
Society,  Fetter  Lane,  £^!')  gs.  6d.  Ditto  Wells  St.  Hack- 
ney, i^ij  us.  2d.' ;  and  under  'the  Counties  of  Great  Britain 
and  Ireland,' '  Auxiliary  Society,  Manchester,  £1 1  2s.  Do. 
Reading-,  £6  6s.  6d.'  In  the  supplementary  list  at  the 
end  of  the  same  Report  is,  'Assistant  Missionary  Society 
at  Cambridge,  £^  4s.'  The  Report  for  1809  contains  a 
longer  list — Cambridge,  Colchester,  Fetter  Lane,  Hackney. 
Hope  Chapel,  Hackney,  Peckham,  Reading,  South  Molton, 
and  Walthamstow.  The  Report  for  1812  contains  these 
words:  'The  ministers  of  the  Gospel,  both  in  town  and 
country,  are  respectfully  requested  to  assist  by  public 
collections,  by  the  formation  of  Auxiliary  Societies  in  their 
respective  congregations  or  neighbourhood,  and  above  all 
by  employing  their  friendly  influence  in  procuring  annual 
subscriptions.'  In  the  Report  for  1814,  only  seven  years 
after  the  adoption  of  this  new  method,  the  Directors 
state  : — 

'  To  the  Auxiliary  Societies,  both  in  town  and  country, 
the  thanks  of  this  meeting  are  especially  due.  The  addition 
made  to  their  number,  and  to  their  efficiency,  during  the 
past  year  has  been  very  great ;  we  cannot  specify  them, 
but  those  of  Bristol  and  the  West  Riding  of  Yorkshire 
have  been  eminently  productive  ;  nor  have  those  of  several 
smaller  districts,  towns,  and  particular  congregations  been 
less  meritorious.  The  female  friends  in  the  metropolis, 
at  Tottenham  Court  Chapel,  at  the  Tabernacle,  at  Hoxton, 
at  Surrey  Chapel  (and  at  other  places,  equal  in  zeal 
though  not  in  numbers)  have  done  worthily,  and  have 
shown  the  world  what  great  and  good  effects  may  be 
expected  from  the  exertions  and  influence  of  pious 
females.' 

The  first  statement  of  account  printed  by  the  Society 
stands  at  the  end  of  the  Report  for  1796,  and  is  as 
follows : — 


G  2 


84 


THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 


Dr. 

July  I,  1796.  To  Sub- 
scriptions and  Dona- 
tions to  the  30th  of 
June 

By  Public  Collections, 
and  Persons  witliout 
Signatures,  &c.       .     . 

To  Cash,  received  for  the 
Sale  of  theFirst  Volume 
of  Missionary  Sermons 

To  I  Year's  Dividend  on 
£3000  3  per  cents.  £45 

To  do.  £1500  4  per 
cents £zo 

To  do.  <Ciooo  5  per 
cents.     .     .     .     .  £25 


Cr. 


d. 


5491     3  6 


5267   II   o 


250 


100     o  o 


;^iio88  14  6ii 


£     s.  (L 


July  T,  1796.  By  Cash 
for  purchase  of 
^'10,500  3  per  cent. 
Consols  at  different 
times 7124 

Do.  do.  of  ^^3000  4 
per  cents 2518 

Do.  do.  /^looo  5  per 
cents loio 

Do.  for  Sundry  Dis- 
bursements for  Sta- 
tionary, Printing,  &c.     177 


S     5 


£10830       O    II 

Balance  in  hands  of  Trea- 
surer      258  13     7| 

£11088  14     6i 


Besides  the  above  Balance  of  £258  135.  "j^d.  the  Treasurer  has  in  his  hands 
the  engagement  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  Haweis  for  £500,  payable  on  the  equipment  of 
the  first  six  Missionaries  for  the  South  Seas. 

The  account  for  the  year  ending  June  i,  1805,  that  is,  at 
the  end  of  ten  year's  work,  is  as  follows  : — 


2607  i^ 


Dr. 

i  s-  d. 
June  1, 1804.  To  Balance  loo  i6  5 
To  Collections,  Dona- 
tions,Subscriptions,  &c., 
London  and  Vicinity  .  1977  17  4 
Do.  Country  .  .  .  .  1818  11  11 
Legacies 499     5     9 

1^0  £3537  lo-y-  4^.  4  per 

cents,  sold     .... 
To  do.  £3300  5  per  cents. 

sold 3300     o     o 

To  one  Year's  Dividend 

on  £i6oo,  3  per  cent. 

Consols 480     o     o 

Ditto  on  £3300, 5per  cent.     165     o     o 
Half  Year's  do.  on  £9007 

\Qs.   4^.,  4    per   cent. 

Consols 180  15     o 

Do.  do.  £5 ^oo  do.      .     .     110     o     o 
Received     from      Sierra 

Leone  Co 873 

£11248  10     71 


Cr. 

£      s.     d. 

By  Disbursements      .     .  5690  16     8 

By  Purchase  of  £3700  5 

per  cent.  Navy  .     .     .   3305     6     o 

By  ditto  of  three  Exche- 
quer Bills      ....  2001    17     6 

Balance    in     Treasurer's 

hands 252     911 


;^ii248   10     7 


^  These  figures  are  printed  exactly  as  they  stand  in  the  Report.     It  is  curious 
to  observe  that  they  do  not  cast  up  correctly.    , 

The  disbursements,  amounting  to  £sfi9^  ^6^-   ^d.^   are 
accounted  for  as  follows  : — 


FINANCIAL    VIEWS  IN  1818  85 

£     s.  d. 

East  India  and  Ceylon  Missions     .         .         .  313   17  6 
Missions  to  Newfoundland,  Quebec,  and  New 

Carlisle   .......  204  16  3 

Missions  to  the  South  of  Africa      .         .          .  2541     3  5 

Disbursements  for  Otaheite    .         .         .         .  271   11  i 

Mission  to  Surat — Outfit^,  passage,  &c.  .         .  1347     o  o 

Gosport  Seminary .         .         .         .         .         .  312  17  o 

The  rest  is  home  expenditure,  only  two  items  of  which 
fall  under  the  heading  of  salaries  :  — 

'  Mr.  David  Langton,  Under-Secretary,  his  salary,  ;^42. 

^  Mr.  Thomas  Lee,  Collector,  his  percentage  on  ;^840 
collected  by  him  ;^42.' 

The  financial  views  of  the  founders  of  the  Society,  and 
the  directions  in  which  these  were  compulsorily  modified 
by  the  pressure  of  work  and  experience,  are  admirably  set 
forth  in  the  Report  for  1818  : — 

'  There  is  a  diminution  in  the  Income  of  the  Society, 
so  far  as  it  arises  from  Annual  Subscriptions  and  other 
Voluntary  Contributions  for  the  year  just  expired,  when 
compared  with  that  of  the  preceding  year  ;  and  a  still 
greater  defalcation  in  the  same  source  of  supply,  when 
compared  with  the  proceeds  of  the  year,  ending  April  ], 
1816.  That  such  would  be  one  of  the  results  of  the  serious 
distresses  which  have  prevailed  during  the  last  two  years, 
through  the  country  at  large,  it  was  natural  to  expect ;  and 
it  leads  the  Directors  as  confidently  to  look  for  the  return 
of  former  abounding  liberality,  in  proportion  as  the  pressure 
which  has  restrained  it  is  removed. 

'  It  was  an  expectation  formed  by  the  founders  of  the 
Society,  and  long  cherished  by  its  Directors,  and  also  one 
which  appeared  so  reasonable,  that  nothing  but  contra- 
dictory experience  could  have  weakened  it — that  the  ex- 
pences  of  our  Missionary  settlements,  and  especially  of 
those  formed  in  countries  where  a  considerable  population 
is  found,  would  be  merely  temporary  ;  and  that  a  few  years 
would,  at  least,  render  the  several  stations  self-supported. 


86        THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:   1795-1S20 

if  not  contributory  to  the  expences  of  spreading  the  Gospel 
embraced  by  themselves,  among  their  kindred  heathen. 
Thus,  it  was  presumed,  that  the  Funds,  disengaged  from 
the  earlier  stations,  would  be  applicable  to  the  formation 
of  new  ones  ;  and  an  unlimited  progress  in  the  Society's 
operations  be  provided  for,  without  any  considerable  pro- 
gressive augmentation  of  income.  But  this  hope  has  not 
been  realized  in  the  case  of  any  mission  yet  undertaken 
by  the  Society.  On  the  contrary  it  is  found,  not  only  that 
the  Missionaries  derive  little  or  no  support  from  the  places 
in  which  they  reside,  but  that  their  claims  on  the  Society 
augment  in  proportion  as  their  families  enlarge.  It  may 
also  be  observed  (as  it  stands  in  near  relation  to  the  subject) 
that  the  families  of  the  Missionaries  are  occasioning  further 
and  very  serious  demands  on  the  Funds  of  the  Society, 
which  are  urged  upon  the  Directors  with  considerable 
importunity,  not  merely  by  various  Missionaries  abroad, 
but  by  their  friends  at  home  ;  and  which,  if  met,  even  to 
a  limited  extent,  will,  from  the  large  and  increasing  number 
of  those  to  whom  they  refer,  become  a  heavy  and  growing 
charge  upon  them. 

'  These  circumstances  afford  weighty  points  of  considera- 
tion to  the  members  of  the  Society  at  large ;  and  they 
impose  upon  the  Directors  the  necessity  of  distinguishing, 
in  their  estimates  of  the  expences  and  income  of  the 
Institution,  between  those  charges  which,  arising  from  the 
missions  already  established,  must  be  considered  as  per- 
manent, and  those  which,  depending  on  the  undertaking  of 
new  missions,  may  be  regarded  as  conditional  or  contingent. 
The  charges  of  the  first  class,  while  they  are  peremptory, 
as  having  the  force  of  positive  engagements,  to  which  all 
the  resources  of  the  Society  are  pledged,  are  already  of 
a  very  great  amount  ;  and  they  will  be  augmented  every 
year  by  each  new  mission,  in  which  expences  of  the  latter 
class  are  incurred.  Indeed,  it  may  be  stated,  as  a  point 
not  to  be  viewed  with  indifference,  that,  added  to  the  cost 
of  the  education  of  the  Students  already  engaged,  and 
the  charges  of  management  (which  must  also  be  considered 


FINANCIAL   VIEWS  IN  lilS  87 

of  the  same  class)  the  actual  amount  of  this  division  in  the 
expenditure  of  the  Society,  during  the  last  year,  amounts 
to  three-fourths  of  its  revenues  from  ordinary  sources.  It 
follows,  therefore,  that  limitations  are  approaching,  and 
that  not  slowly,  to  the  extension  of  the  Society's  operations, 
which  will  ill  comport  v/ith  the  enlarged  and  benevolent 
hopes  and  expectations  of  its  members  ;  or  that  the  re- 
served Fundsj  which  afford  solidity  to  the  system,  must  be 
progressively  absorbed,  unless  the  growing  disproportion 
be  checked  by  a  decrease  in  the  expenditure  of  the  existing 
missions^  or  by  a  renewed  and  progressive  advance  in  the 
income  of  the  Society. 

^  It  will  be  the  duty  of  the  Directors  to  do  everything  in 
their  power  consistently  to  economize,  as  well  as  enlarge 
the  Funds  ;  but  in  the  latter  of  these  labours,  especially, 
they  must  chiefly  rely,  in  due  dependence  on  Divine 
Providence,  on  the  zeal  and  energy  of  their  Christian 
brethren  through  the  United  Kingdom,  by  whom  the 
Institution  has  been  founded,  and  is  supported.  And  it  is 
in  order  to  shew  to  their  constituents  in  every  part  of  the 
country,  more  clearly  than  they  would  most  probably 
otherwise  apprehend  it,  the  need  which  really  exists,  not 
merely  for  the  continuance,  but  the  augmentation  of 
liberality,  that  this  view  of  the  financial  prospects  of  the 
Society  has  been  given  by  the  Directors;  judging  that,  as 
their  close  inspection  of  its  affairs  causes  them  to  foresee 
the  advancing  evil,  it  is  their  duty  to  give  timely  notice  of 
it  to  the  members  at  large,  in  order  that,  by  their  zealous 
efforts  in  supporting  the  Funds,  they  may  counteract  its 
silent  though  certain  operation.  .   .  . 

'  Having  recited  the  proceedings  of  this  Society  in  the 
great  work  of  evangelizing  the  heathen,  we  cannot  refrain 
from  expressing  our  unfeigned  pleasure  in  witnessing  the 
progress  and  success  of  other  Societies  in  our  own  country, 
and  abroad  ;  we  perceive  with  delight  the  zeal  with  which 
they  arc  animated,  the  liberality  with  which  they  arc  sup- 
ported, and  the  blessed  effects  which  have  already  attended 
their  labours.     The  great  object  which  for  many  ages  and 


88         THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

generations  seemed  to  be  unnoticed,  or  was  thought  unat- 
tainable, has  now  taken  full  possession  of  the  minds  of  our 
fellow  Christians,  of  almost  all  denominations,  and  we  hope 
will  become  a  kind  of  national — of  universal  concern.  We 
cannot,  therefore,  but  indulge  the  hope,  that  the  glorious 
season,  long  predicted,  is  at  hand,  when  the  name  of  Jesus 
shall  be  exalted  in  every  land  and  by  every  tongue. 

'  Whilst  the  Directors  reflect  with  pleasure  on  the  extent 
to  which  the  efforts  of  the  Society  have  been  carried,  and 
on  the  continuance  of  that  efficient  support  which  has  been 
derived  from  the  annual  subscribers,  from  numerous  con- 
gregations, and  the  auxiliary  societies  in  town  and  country, 
to  whom  we  most  thankfully  make  our  acknowledgments, 
we  beg  leave  to  remind  our  friends,  that  what  has  already 
been  achieved  bears  no  proportion,  or  at  most  a  very  small 
proportion,  to  the  crying  necessities  of  a  perishing  world.' 

It  was  at  the  annual  meeting  at  which  these  words  were 
first  read,  on  May  14,  181 8,  that  the  resolution  which 
changed  the  title'  of  the  Society  was  proposed  and  carried  ; 
viz.  '  That  the  title  of  this  Society  be  in  future  The 
Missionary  Society,  usually  called  the  London  Missionary 
Society.' 

The  table  showing  the  annual  income  of  the  Society  from 
year  to  year,  and  printed  in  the  Appendix  to  Volume  II  of 
this  history,  deserves  careful  study.  The  first  five  years 
were  experimental  and  abnormal.  But  in  1801  the  General 
Purposes  Fund  assumed  a  settled  form,  and  for  that  year  it 
amounted  to  only  ;^i,788.  Since  then  it  has  slowly  and 
steadily  increased,  and  for  the  year  ending  March  31,  1895, 
amounted  to  ;^73,377.  Calculated  to  the  same  date  the 
total  sum  raised  by  the  Society's  friends  towards  the 
evangelization  of  the  world  has  been  ;^5,6i8,i23  ;  and  in 
addition  to  this  the  native  churches,  together  with  their 
friends  and  helpers  abroad,  have  raised  a  further  sum  of 

In  this  connection  it  may  be  well' to  note  how  admirably 
the  Society  was  served  by  its  early  officials  and  by  the  many 
ministers  and  laymen  of  the  first  rank  who  gave  so  freely 


OLD  SWAN  STAIRS  89 

of  their  time  and  effort  to  its  concerns.  The  first  treasurer, 
Mr.  Joseph  Hardcastle,  held  office  from  his  election  in  1795 
until  just  prior  to  his  death  in  1817.  He  was  the  bea?i  ideal 
of  a  great  city  merchant.  Sprung  from  a  good  Yorkshire 
stock,  he  achieved  wealth  by  his  business  energy,  maintain- 
ing a  spotless  record  for  character  and  integrity.  Early  in 
life  he  took  an  active  interest  in  the  abolition  of  the  slave 
trade  and  the  founding  of  the  Sierra  Leone  Company,  and 
during  his  closing  years  he  was  largely  instrumental  in 
securing  that  the  new  charter  of  the  East  India  Company 
gave  all  missionaries  free  access  to  India.  The  Society 
owes  an  incalculable  debt  to  his  interest,  energy,  and  guiding 
wisdom  during  its  first  twenty  years'  work.  For  many 
years  all  its  business  meetings  were  held  on  his  premises 
at  Old  Swan  Stairs. 

When  the  Society  was  founded  in  1795,  Mr.  Hardcastle's 
business  house  was  in  Duck's-foot  Lane^,  and  occasionally 
the  Directors  met  there.  During  i8co  the  great  majority 
of  the  meetings  were  held  in  St.  Paul's  Coffee  House, 
where  on  May  10,  1799,  the  Religious  Tract  Society  was 
founded.  But  in  1801  Mr.  Hardcastle,  who  was  in  partner- 
ship with  Mr.  Reyner,  moved  to  No.  9,  Old  Swan 
Stairs.  This  building  is  still  (1899)  standing,  and  is  in 
the  arrangement  of  the  interior  much  as  it  was  then. 
The  minute-book  for  November  16,  1801,  contains  this 
entry  : — 

'  The  kind  proposal  of  the  Treasurer  and  his  partner 
to  accommodate  the  Society  with  the  use  of  a  room  at  his 
house  for  the  sittings  of  the  Directors  having  been  taken 
into  consideration^  it  was 

'  Resolved,  that  it  be  occupied,  and  that  the  thanks  of  the 
Meeting  be  given  to  Messrs.  Hardcastle  and  Reyner  for 
their  generous  offer. 

*  Resolved,  that  the  next  meeting  of  Directors  be  held 
at  No.  9,  Old  Swan  Stairs,  and  that  they  be  summoned  to 
meet  on  Monday  next.' 

*  More  correctly  Duke's-foot  Lane,  so  called  because  centuries  ago  it  ltd 
to  the  house  of  a  Duke  in  Thames  Street. 


90        THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1S20 

As  ordered  by  the  above  minute  the  first  meeting  on 
Mr.  Hardcastle's  premises  was  held  November  23,  1801. 
From  that  date  until  the  year  1814  the  Directors'  meetings 
were  regularly  held  at  No.  9,  Old  Swan  Stairs. 

In  a  letter  to  his  son,  dated  '  Hatcham,  Sept.  8,  1801/ 
Mr.  Hardcastle  writes  : — 

'  We  have  succeeded,  much  to  our  satisfaction,  in 
procuring  very  commodious  premises  at  the  water-side, 
close  by  Old  Swan  Stairs,  a  little  above  London  Bridge. 
The  counting-house  looks  directly  upon  the  river,  and, 
I  believe,  when  you  see  it,  you  will  consider  it  to  be 
extremely  pleasant.' 

A  large  room  on  the  first  floor  still  exists,  evidently 
without  having  undergone  any  considerable  structural 
alteration,  and  there  is  very  good  reason  to  believe 
that  this  is  the  identical  apartment  in  which  for  four- 
teen years  the  Directors'  meetings  were  held,  in  which  the 
Bible  Society  was  born,  and  where  also  the  meetings  of 
the  Committee  of  the  Religious  Tract  Society  were  held  ^ 
In  1 8 14  the  growing  necessities  of  the  Society  and  the 
arrival  of  missionary  curios,  especially  from  the  South  Seas, 
compelled  the  Directors  to  seek  larger  accommodation. 
They  removed  to  '  a  set  of  rooms  in  Old  Jewry,  near  Cheap- 
side  ;  being  the  second  story  of  that  spacious  building,  late 
in  the  occupation  of  the  London  Institution,  and  formerly 
residence  of  the  Lord  Mayors  of  the  City.  These  rooms, 
nine  in  number,  are  well  adapted  to  their  intended  pur- 
posed The  first  meeting  of  the  Directors  in  their  new 
and  larger  home  at  No.  8,  Old  Jewry,  appears  to  have 
been  held  on  August  29,  1814.  At  that  meeting  a 
letter  of  thanks  to  Mr.  Hardcastle  was  adopted  and 
recorded  on  the  minutes,  from  which  we  quote  the  opening 
sentences : — 

'  See  an  interesting  paper,  fully  illustrated,  by  Mr.  Henry  Morris  in  the  Sunday 
at  Home  for  March,  1896,  in  which  the  evidence  for  the  identity  of  this  room  is 
clearly  set  forth.  (It  has  since  been  re-issued  by  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible 
Society  as  a  pamphlet  with  the  title,  A  Memorable  Room. 

^  Evangelical  Magazijie,  1814,  p.  406. 


THE  EARLY  OFFICIALS  91 

'London,  August  29,  1814. 

'  Sir, 

'  The  Directors  of  the  Missionary  Society,  having 
thought  it  expedient  to  engage  some  rooms  in  which  the 
curiosities  sent  by  our  missionaries  may  be  deposited,  and 
judging  that  the  apartments  being  centrally  situated  will  be 
convenient  for  the  meeting  of  the  Directors  in  future,  beg 
leave  to  take  this  opportunity  of  tendering  to  you  their  most 
sincere  and  cordial  thanks  for  the  kindness  and  generosity 
with  which  you  have  favoured  the  Society  for  many  years 
past,  by  accommodating  them  with  the  use  of  your  rooms 
at  Old  Swan  Stairs,  and  for  the  refreshments  perpetually 
offered  to  the  Directors  at  their  meeting  there.  The 
Directors,  Sir,  feel  obligations  which  they  are  absolutely 
incapable  of  expressing  ;  it  is  impossible  for  them  to  find 
any  words  adequate  to  their  grateful  sentiments  ;  the}^  can 
only  entreat  you  to  accept  this  sincere  declaration  of  their 
gratitude,  accompanied  with  v/ishes  equally  sincere  and 
cordial,  that  you  may  continue  to  enjoy,  in  the  fullest 
measure,  the  rich  blessings  of  that  glorious  Gospel  which 
you  have  long  promoted  by  your  counsel,  your  example, 
your  fortune,  and  the  friendly  accommodation  afforded  to 
the  Missionary  Society.' 

From  the  letter  of  acknowledgment  sent  by  Mr.  Hard- 
castle  we  take  one  sentence  : — 

'  In  resigning  a  pleasure  and  an  honour  which  I  have  so 
highly  valued  and  so  long  enjoyed,  I  shall  cherish,  to  the 
close  of  my  life  on  earth,  the  recollection  that  these  humble 
apartments  have  been  consecrated  by  the  associations  of 
many  eminent  servants  of  God  for  sacred  consultations  ; 
by  the  various  measures  of  Christian  benevolence  which 
originated  there  ;  by  the  elevated  devotion  which  has 
ascended  thence  to  heaven  ;  and  by  the  condescending 
presence  of  Christ,  which  I  believe  has  been  in  the  midst 
of  you.' 

Compelled  by  failing  health  to  resign  his  office,  Mr.  Hard- 
castle  was  succeeded  by  his  friend  and  then  partner  William 
Alers  Hankey,  who  held  the  post  from  1816  to  1832.    The 


92         THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

first  two  Secretaries  were  the  Rev.  John  Love,  1 795-1 800, 
who  retired  from  office  on  his  return  to  Scotland  ;  and 
William  Shrubsole  of  the  Bank  of  England,  who  resigned 
in  1798.  From  1798-1800  John  Eyre  acted  as  Home 
Secretary;  and  from  1800  to  1803  combined  with  this  the 
post  of  Foreign  Secretary  also.  In  1803  the  Rev.  George 
Burder  became  Secretary,  a  post  which  he  retained  and  which 
he  filled  with  great  skill  and  power  until  1827.  The  first 
paid  official  was  Thomas  Lee,  the  collector,  whose  name 
appears  in  the  Report  for  3799.  Mr.  David  Langton  was 
appointed  paid  Under-Secretary  in  November,  1802.  In 
18 1 1  Samuel  Tracy  became  the  first  salaried  Home  Secre- 
tary, retiring  in  1816,  to  be  succeeded  by  the  Rev.  John 
Arundel,  who  discharged  the  duties  from  1819  to  1846. 
When  Mr.  Burder  relinquished  the  Foreign  Secretaryship 
in  1827,  he  was  followed  by  William  Orme,  1828-1830, 
and  he  in  turn  was  succeeded  by  a  man  who  had  served 
prominently  in  the  foreign  mission-field,  William  Ellis, 
1 833-1 841.  These  men,  of  course,  differed  greatly  in 
gifts  and  capacity,  though  they  were  more  nearly  alike 
in  zeal  for  and  enthusiasm  on  behalf  of  the  Gospel.  But 
a  Society  was  singularly  fortunate  which  could  number  in 
its  first  list  of  officials  such  men  as  Joseph  Hardcastle, 
William  Hankey,  John  Eyre,  and  George  Burder. 

Another  matter  which  fills  considerable  space  in  the  early 
records  was  a  scheme  for  establishing  and  maintaining 
evangelistic  work  in  France.  The  stupendous  events  which 
had  so  recently  transpired  in  that  country  had  deeply  stirred 
the  hearts  of  evangelical  Christians  in  England.  In  the 
Report  for  1800  the  motives  which  impelled  our  fathers 
to  contemplate  this  new  department  of  work  are  very 
clearly  expressed : — 

*  The  entire  abolition  of  papal  authority  in  France  and 
its  appendages,  the  overthrow  of  that  system  of  supersti- 
tion, which,  in  the  judgment  of  Protestants,  constituted  the 
corruptions  of  Christianity,  and  fornied  the  great  apostacy 
from  it,  are  events  of  transcendent  importance  to  the  cause 
of  religion  :  the  principles  of  infidelity  which  were  originally 


THE   WORK  AMONG  FRENCH  PRISONERS       93 

produced  out  of  that  system  have  been  permitted  in  a  great 
degree  to  be  instrumental  in  its  overthrow,  and  these  fatal 
and  destructive  principles,  it  is  supposed,  have  obtained  in 
those  countries  a  prevalence  almost  universal.  It  is  how- 
ever necessary  to  recollect  that  repeated  declarations  and 
assurances  have  been  given  by  those  who  exercise  the 
powers  of  government  in  France,  that  the  freedom  of  reli- 
gious professions  will  be  respected ;  and  this  principle  is 
engrafted  also  on  their  existing  constitution.  We  contem- 
plate therefore  this  situation  of  things  as  a  providential 
arrangement,  by  which  a  fair  and  inviting  opportunity  is 
afforded  for  the  exertion  of  Christian  zeal  and  benevolence, 
with  the  prospect  of  abundant  success/ 

The  widespread  interest  in  the  religious  needs  of  the 
Contment  at  this  time  had  also  been  deepened  in  different 
parts  of  the  kingdom  by  the  Christian  work  which  had 
been  carried  on  among  the  considerable  number  of  French 
and  Dutch  prisoners  of  war  then  immured  in  English 
prisons.  The  Report  for  1801  specially  refers  to  this 
service  : — 

'  The  number  of  French  and  Dutch  prisoners  in  different 
parts  of  the  kingdom  is  very  great ;  that  it  may  be  pre- 
sumed they  stand  much  in  need  of  religious  instruction  ; 
and  that  it  would  be  a  work  of  facility  and  importance  to 
print  and  distribute  suitable  tracts  among  them.  In  conse- 
quence of  this  representation,  two  hundred  pounds  have 
been  appropriated  to  this  object  ;  a  committee  has  been 
appointed  to  select  suitable  tracts,  and  also  to  take  measures 
that  they  may  be  duly  distributed  ;  and,  by  the  exertions 
of  our  reverend  brethren  and  friends  at  Plymouth,  Ports- 
mouth, Bristol,  Liverpool,  and  Sherness  ;  of  Mr.  Morris 
late  of  Newport  Pagnel,  and  Mr.  Pewtrcss,  of  London, 
upwards  of  thirty  thousand  tracts,  in  the  French  and  Dutch 
language,  together  with  some  Testaments  and  Bibles,  have 
been  distributed  among  23,000  prisoners  of  those  two 
nations.' 

Preaching  and  direct  mission-work  not  being  practicable 
in    the   existing   political   relations  of   France  and   Great 


94         THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 

Britain  in  the  early  years  of  the  century,  the  thoughts  of 
the  Directors  naturally  turned  to  the  press.  Mr.  Bogue,  in 
this  as  in  so  many  of  the  early  movements  of  the  Society, 
taking  the  initiative,  suggested  the  preparation  of  an  edition 
of  the  New  Testament  in  French,  with  a  very  carefully 
written  special  preface,  '  adapted  to  the  actual  state  of 
religion  in  those  countries,  and  tending  to  remove  the  mis- 
apprehensions of  those  who  have  no  deep-rooted  prejudice 
against  Christianity  itself,  but  have  not  learnt  to  distinguish 
its  own  pure  and  holy  nature  from  the  appendages  by 
which  it  has  been  disfigured  ;  and  also  to  vindicate  this 
treasure  of  heavenly  wisdom  from  the  charges  of  infidels, 
and  rescue  it  from  the  unfounded  aspersions  of  its  ignorant 
or  depraved  adversaries. 

On  May  17,  1802,  the  Board  appointed  Dr.  Haweis, 
Mr.  Bogue,  Mr.  Hardcastle,  and  Mr.  Alers  a  deputation  to 
visit  France  and  ascertain  what  steps  could  most  advan- 
tageously be  taken  to  forward  this  work.  It  was  decided  to 
issue  a  large  edition  in  French  of  the  New  Testament,  with  the 
preface  above  referred  to,  which  had  been  written  at  the 
request  of  the  Directors  by  Mr.  Bogue.  Dr.  Haweis,  having 
broken  his  arm  by  a  fall  from  his  horse,  was  unable  to  visit 
France,  and  finally  at  the  end  of  September  Messrs.  Bogue, 
Wilks,  and  Hardcastle  started  for  Paris.  '  The  booksellers' 
shops  were  searched  for  some  days  before  a  single  copy 
of  the  Scriptures  could  be  found.'  They  conversed  with 
friends,  concerted  such  measures  as  were  possible  under  the 
circumstances,  and  returned  more  deeply  impressed  than 
ever  with  a  sense  of  the  darkness  and  the  needs  of  France. 
Their  elaborate  report  is  entered  on  the  minutes  for 
October  25,  1802,  and  the  chief  conclusion  is  almost  as 
pertinent  to-day  as  then  :  '  The  Bible  and  an  evangelical 
ministry  are  the  principal  things  requisite  to  promote  the 
cause  of  the  Redeemer  in  that  country.'  The  Directors 
based  upon  this  report  the  following  resolutions  : — 

I.  That  2,coo  copies  of  the  New  Testament,  with  Mr. 
Bogue's  special  preface,  be  printed  and  circulated  in  France, 
at  a  cost  of  about  £iiS' 


THE  MISSION-WORK  IN  FRANCE  95 

2.  That  the  following  be  printed  and  sold  :  5.000  Bibles 
and  Testaments;,  cost  about  £62^ ;  5,oco  Watts'  First 
Catechism,  £'^  ;  5,000  Watts'  Second  Catechism,  £10  ; 
5,000  Assembly's  Catechism,  £2^  ;  4,000  Testaments  in 
Italian  and  2,000  Bogue's  Preface  in  ditto,  £'jo  :  in  all  an 
expenditure  of  ;^^4H. 

3.  That  a  Committee  be  formed  to  consider  the  best 
means  of  circulating  a  periodical  like  the  Evangelical 
Magazine  in  France. 

4.  That  an  address  to  the  Protestants  of  France  be  issued. 

5.  That  Rev.  Samuel  Tracy  be  appointed  agent  of  the 
Society  in  Paris  for  six  months  to  come. 

6.  That  an  application  be  made  for  six  suitable  persons 
to  be  sent  over  to  England  to  receive  suitable  instructions 
under  the  patronage  of  this  Society  with  a  view  to  the 
exercise  of  the  Protestant  Ministry  in  France. 

These  measures  were  pushed  forward  as  actively  as 
possible.  The  Report  for  1^03  states  that  at  Besan9on 
nearly  12,000  persons  signed  an  application  for  Protestant 
ministers  ;  and  at  Arras  nearly  as  many.  This  effort  had 
been  rendered  possible  by  the  Peace  of  Amiens,  which, 
in  1802,  terminated  the  war  which  had  raged  between 
England  and  France  since  1793,  ^^^  early  in  1803  the 
ambition  of  Napoleon  renew^ed  the  struggle,  and  greatly 
hindered  all  such  works  of  beneficence  in  France  itself  as 
those  planned  by  the  Directors.  But  it  was  not  allowed 
to  drop,  and  in  the  early  records  there  are  many  references 
to  the  distribution  of  the  Word  of  God  and  of  religfious 
literature  in  both  France  and  Italy. 

The  missionary  zeal,  so  far  from  checking  home  work, 
became  a  powerful  stimulus  to  energy  and  labour  in  many 
new  fields.  Proof  of  this  is  found  in  the  following  passage 
from  the  Report  for  1798: — 

'  Nor  have  we  been  destitute  of  some  tokens  of  divine 
approbation  at  home,  in  the  spirit  of  prayer  and  zeal  diffused 
among  our  congregations.  A  host  of  faithful  labourers  have 
arisen  from  those  who  form  the  Missionary  Society,  and  are 
going  forth   continually  in    their   several    neighbourhoods, 


96        THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

preaching  the  Gospel  to  the  poor,  and  teaching  their  chil- 
dren, who,  through  the  neglect  of  others  or  their  own 
carelessness  and  insensibility,  have  hitherto  been  destitute 
of  the  means  of  instruction.  We  cannot  help  observing 
with  thankfulness  that  many  of  the  most  vigorous  steps 
which  have  lately  been  pursued  for  spreading  the  Gospel  at 
home,  originated  from  this  Society.  In  lamenting  our  past 
neglect  of  our  heathen  brethren,  we  have  felt  more  the 
value  of  souls  than  we  ever  did  before.  In  amending  this 
error  we  have  looked  around  us  at  home,  and  have  found 
that  much  is  to  be  done  everywhere  ;  that  the  pursuit  of 
one  object,  so  far  from  interfering  with  the  other,  excites 
greater  zeal,  quickens  greater  diligence,  and  causes  us  to 
strive  more  abundantly  for  the  salvation  of  all.' 

The  French  prisoners,  meanwhile,  were  not  forgotten. 
The  preparation  and  publication  of  the  tracts  for  this 
purpose  was  one  of  the  earliest  missionary  works  under- 
taken by  the  Religious  Tract  Society,  which  had  been 
founded  in  1799.  As  early  as  i8co  cordial  co-operation  in 
missionary  work  with  the  Missionary  Society  began — 
a  co-operation  even  closer  and  stronger  to-day. 

One  of  these  developments  of  home  work  in  the  early 
years  of  the  century  was  fraught  with  important  conse- 
quences. Among  the  students  sent  to  Mr.  Bogue  at  Gos- 
port  in  1802  was  Joseph  Samuel  Christian  Fredric  Frey, 
a  German  Jew,  who  had  come  from  Berlin  and  who  had  been 
baptized  in  1798.  He  was  intended  for  work  in  South  Africa, 
but  at  his  own  request  was  appointed  to  labour  among  the 
Jews  in  London.  He  began  in  1805  by  giving  lectures  on 
the  Old  Testament,  and  preaching,  first  at  Jewry  Street 
Chapel,  and  then  at  Sion  Chapel.  On  February  24,  1806, 
a  series  of  thirteen  resolutions  bearing  upon  this  work  were 
adopted  by  the  Board.  The  first  runs,  'The  Missionary 
Society,  taking  into  serious  consideration  the  duty  of 
Christians  in  general,  and  especially  of  themselves,  as 
a  Society  united  for  the  purpose  of  spreading  the  Gospel, 
to  promote  by  all  due  means  the  conversion  of  the  Jews  to 
the  Faith  of  Christ  Jesus  : — will  in  dependence  on  Divine 


WORK  AMONG  JEWS,   1S08  97 

assistance  devote  to  it  a  greater  degree  of  attention.'  The 
ninth  was  '  that  a  plan  be  formed  for  visiting,  instructing, 
and  relieving  such  sick  persons  among  the  Jews  as  may  be 
inclined  to  apply.' 

For  a  time  matters  connected  with  this  work  appeared 
to  go  smoothly,  but  the  minutes  soon  present  evidence 
that  the  Jews  were  more  eager  to  secure  monetary  relief 
than  they  were  either  to  listen  to  Mr.  Frey's  lectures,  or  to 
read  the  special  catechism  which  had  been  prepared  for 
their  instruction.  On  March  23,  1807,  it  was  resolved  'that 
as  many  difficulties  and  inconveniences  have  been  felt  by 
the  Directors  in  affording  pecuniary  aid  to  Jews,  it  be 
referred  to  the  committee  for  Jewish  affairs  to  consider 
under  what  principle  it  will  be  safe,  suitable,  and  honour- 
able for  this  Society  to  act  in  future  with  regard  to 
applications  for  pecuniary  assistance  which  may  be  made 
by  Jews  professing  an  attachment  to  the  Christian  religion.' 
This  led  to  considerable  discussion,  and  finally  on  May  7, 
1807,  it  was  resolved  'that  in  future  the  funds  of  this 
Society  shall  not  be  applied  to  the  support  of  destitute 
Jews,  unless  in  the  opinion  of  the  committee^  after  due 
inquiry,  the  persons  applying  appear  to  have  embraced  the 
Christian  faith,  or  are  sincerely  desirous  of  obtaining 
instruction  therein.'  On  November  9  a  scheme  was  drawn 
up  for  what  was  to  be  practically  a  new  Society  to  work 
among  the  Jews.  This  was  approved,  and  '  the  chapel  in 
Artillery  Street'  was  secured  for  Mr.  Frey's  use.  On 
April  27,  1808,  a  motion  was  made  '  that  the  Jewish  Mission 
be  entirely  separated  from  the  Missionary  Society/  con- 
sideration of  which  was  finally  postponed  for  three  months. 

It  is  evident  that  considerable  divergence  of  view  by  this 
time  existed  between  Mr.  Frey  on  the  one  hand  and  the 
Directors  on  the  other,  as  to  the  right  method  of  working 
the  mission  to  the  Jews.  On  December  19,  1808,  the 
Board  reaffirmed  its  strong  desire  to  carry  on  Christian 
work  among  the  Jews,  but  went  on  to  say  '  they  are  of 
opinion  that  the  proposition  submitted  by  Mr.  Frey,  which 
respects  the  taking  of  poor  children  from  their  parents  in 

I.  H 


98       THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 

order  to  maintain  them  in  a  charity  school,  and  to  educate 
them  as  Christians,  is  ineh'gible.'  At  the  same  meeting  it 
was  resolved  to  raise  Mr.  Frey's  salary  to  ;^200  per  annum. 
In  a  letter  dated  January  lo,  1809,  and  entered  upon  the 
minutes  under  January  23,  Mr.  Frey  resigned  his  connection 
with  the  Society,  and  shortly  afterwards  the  London 
Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel  among  the  Jews 
was  formed,  and  has  been  worked  until  the  present  time 
upon  an  independent  basis. 

The  want  of  immediate  and  evident  success  in  the  South 
Sea  Mission  was  a  serious  source  of  anxiety  to  the  Directors 
during  1800,  1801,  and  the  next  ten  years.  '  Patience 
and  perseverance,''  they  remark  in  the  opening  sentence 
of  the  Report,  read  May  13,  1801,  *  are  essential  ingredi- 
ents in  the  missionary  character.  Whoever  attempts  to 
spread  the  knowledge  of  Christ  among  barbarous  and 
idolatrous  nations  must  labour  with  indefatigable  zeal, 
and  expect  to  encounter  numerous  difficulties.'  During 
these  years  they  tested  the  truth  of  these  words  in  their 
application  to  the  work  at  home.  The  love  of  some  waxed 
cold ;  impatient  souls  were  daunted  by  the  absence  of 
immediate  and  unquestioned  successes  ;  in  a  sense  also  the 
Directors  were  wounded  in  the  house  of  their  friends.  The 
lofty  ideal  of  Christian  union  which  the  Society  had 
attempted  to  realize — and  not  wholly  without  success — 
has  been  proved  by  the  experience  of  the  century  to  be 
very  far  even  yet  from  anything  like  full  realization. 
Missionary  agencies  began  to  multiply,  and  at  this,  in  so 
far  as  they  furthered  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  among  the 
heathen,  the  friends  of  the  Society  rejoiced  in  the  past,  as 
their  sons  do  to-day.  Still  the  historian  may  be  allowed 
to  indulge  his  regret  that  closer  union,  at  any  rate  in  the 
vast  work  of  foreign  missions,  has  not  proved  possible.  In 
1 801  there  sprang  into  being  the  great  Society  which  has 
in  many  respects  outstripped  all  her  sisters,  both  elder 
and  younger — the  Church  Missionary  Society.  The  first 
reference  to  it  in  the  Society's  archives  occurs  in  the  Report 
for  1 801,  already  quoted  : — 


THE  HOME   COMMITTEES  IN  ISIO  99 

'Among  other  acceptable  proofs  of  an  increasing  zeal 
for  the  introduction  of  our  Saviour's  kingdom  among  the 
heathen,  we  notice  with  satisfaction  the  association  which 
has  lately  been  formed  by  several  pious  and  respectable 
clergymen  and  other  eminent  members  of  the  Church  of 
England  for  promoting  that  object.  These  worthy 
characters  being  of  opinion  that  their  exertions  as  a 
separate  and  distinct  society  might  be  more  beneficial 
than  by  an  union  with  ours  (which  comprehends  other 
denominations  as  well  as  members  of  the  establishment), 
have  accordingly  formed  a  Missionary  Institution,  whose 
operations  are  intended  to  be  more  especially  directed 
toward  the  continent  of  Asia  and  Africa ;  our  most  ardent 
prayers  shall  be  offered  for  a  distinguished  benediction  on 
their  zealous  endeavours,  and  we  trust  we  shall  have  to 
unite  our  thankfulness  and  joy  on  account  of  their  abundant 
success.' 

To  complete  this  survey  of  the  home  administration  of 
the  first  five  and  twenty  years,  we  must  briefly  glance  at 
the  important  decisions  taken  which  led  to  active  mission 
work  in  so  many  parts  of  the  world,  and  at  the  men  who 
were  chiefly  concerned  in  making  these  decisions  effective. 

It  was  only  in  the  course  of  years  that  the  management 
of  this  great  and  ever-growing  work  assumed  carefully  and 
fully  organized  form.  At  first  the  whole  Board  of  Directors 
considered  these  questions,  the  way  in  which  they  were 
dealt  with  depending  largely  upon  the  character  and 
influence  of  the  leading  man  or  men  interested  in  the 
particular  question  under  discussion.  Gradually  the 
necessary  subdivision  into  committees  for  special  fields 
came  to  pass.  At  the  meeting  on  May  21,  18 jo.  Mr. 
Hardcastle  laid  on  the  table  'a  plan  for  regulating  the 
committees,'  and  on  May  28  the  foreign  work  was  arranged 
as  under  : — 

I.  The  missions  in  India  to  be  managed  by  a  committee 
of  four,  each  of  them  to  correspond  with  specific  stations, 
viz.  Mr.  Cowie  with  Vizagapatam  and  Madras ;  Mr. 
Shrubsole   with    the    Birman    (sic)    and    Surat    Missions ; 

H  2 


loo      THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY :    1795-1820 

Mr.  Steinkopff  with  the  German  missionaries  in  Ceylon  ; 
Mr.  Bogue  with  the  China  Mission. 

2.  Africa.  A  committee  of  two  to  manage  these  mis- 
sions. Mr.  Hardcastle,  the  Cape  Directors,  Dr.  Vanderkemp, 
and  brethren  at  Bethelsdorp,  and  the  Great  Namacquas ; 
Mr.  R.  Steven,  the  Orange  River  and  Stellenbosch. 

3.  The  West  Indies.  A  committee  of  three.  Rev. 
G.  ColHson  to  correspond  with  Demerara;  Mr.  Waugh 
with  Trinidad  ;  Mr.  Josiah  Roberts  with  Tobago. 

4.  Otaheite,  &c.  Rev.  Matthew  Wilks  and  Mr.  W. 
Shrubsole. 

5.  New  Brunswick,  &c.     Rev.  J.  Humphrys. 
Resolved,  that  the  following  letter  be  addressed  to  each 

of  the  Directors  mentioned. 

'  Dear  Sir, 

With  a  view  to  secure  a  regularity  in  our  future  corre- 
spondence with  the  several  missionaries  on  a  plan  which 
may  not  press  too  much  on  the  convenience  of  any  of  the 
Directors,  it  is  proposed  that  each  station,  or  in  some  cases 
two  stations,  shall  be  committed  to  the  special  care  and 
superintendence  of  one  Director  who  shall  be  inclined  to 
undertake  it  with  a  fixed  and  serious  attention  to  correspond 
therewith,  with  constancy  and  regularity,  managing  and 
giving  directions  for  the  management  of  all  concerns  re- 
lating thereto  previously  approved  by  the  Board  of 
Directors,  and  considering  himself  under  a  sacred  and 
solemn  responsibility  as  to  the  discharge  of  his  duty  in 
relation  to  this  object.' 

On  May  27,  1816,  the  same  foreign  committees  were 
appointed,  but  all  had  grown  larger,  No.  i  having  ten  ; 
No.  2,  nine  ;  Nos.  3  and  5  amalgamated,  nine  ;  and  No.  4, 
twelve. 

After  the  annual  meeting  in  1817,  on  May  26,  the 
Board  still  further  elaborated  the  standing  orders  and  sub- 
committees Space  forbids  the  reproduction  here  of  a 
scheme  which  with  but  comparatively  little  modification  has 
continued  in  force  through  the  century.     The  chief  points 


EARLY  MISSIONARY  ENTERPRISE  loi 

were  that  the  Board  appointed  four  missionary  and  four 
home  standing  committees.  Each  Director  to  be  on  at 
least  one  mission  committee  ;  each  committee  to  keep 
minutes  and  report  duly  to  the  Board.  The  Mission 
Committees  were  Eastern,  comprising  China,  India,  Malacca, 
and  Ceylon,  thirteen  members;  Western,  comprising  South 
Seas,  West  Indies,  and  America,  thirteen  members ; 
Southern,  comprising  Africa.  Madagascar,  and  the  Isle  of 
France,  twelve  members  ;  Northern,  comprising  Siberia, 
Malta,  Continent  and  Home  Lascars.  The  Home  Com- 
mittees were — Examination,  all  ministerial  Directors  in  or 
near  London,  and  country  ministers  when  passing  through  ; 
Equipment,  six  members  ;  Auditors,  four  members  ;  and 
Funds,  '  whatever  relates  to  the  promotion  of  the  funds,' 
eight  members. 

Turning  now  to  the  missionary  work,  some  of  which 
preceded  but  the  greater  portion  of  which  succeeded  this 
organization  of  superintendence,  it  has  already  been  noted 
that  the  imagination,  the  affection,  and  the  executive 
energy  of  the  Society  were  at  first  very  largely  centred  in 
the  South  Seas.  The  powerful  personality  of  Dr.  Haweis, 
strengthened  by  his  generous  contributions,  controlled 
this  movement.  But  not  even  in  his  case  did  these 
romantic  and  fascinating  islands  of  the  sea  exhaust 
missionary  faith  and  enthusiasm.  Some  very  influential 
members  of  the  Society  had  been  in  favour  from  the  first 
of  strenuous  effort  to  lay  hold  upon  the  vast  millions  of 
India  and  China.  One  inevitable  accompaniment,  further, 
of  such  an  outburst  of  spiritual  enthusiasm  as  that  in  which 
the  Society  was  born  was  the  advocacy  by  ardent  friends 
of  almost  every  kind  of  possible  and  impossible  missionary 
enterprise.  It  will  vivify  our  conception  of  the  vigorous 
infancy  and  youth  of  the  Society  if  we  briefly  trace  these 
various  movements  from  the  home  centre. 

On  September  24,  1795,  during  the  organization  of  the 
Society,  the  great  expedition  to  Tahiti  was  enthusiastically 
carried.  The  minutes  for  October  5,  179.5,  state  that 
'a  memorial  on  the  subject  of  an  African  Mission  was  read 


I02      THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

by  Mr.  Haweis.'  At  the  anniversary  meeting  on  May  13, 
1796,  'Mr.  Bogue  presented  a  memoir  on  a  Mission  to 
Madagascar  by  Captain  Byrn  {sic) ;  another  by  himself  on 
a  Mission  to  Surat,  on  the  Malabar  coast ;  another  on 
a  Mission  to  the  West  India  Islands  ;  and  the  Reverend 
Mr.  Love  presented  a  memoir  on  a  Mission  to  the  North 
Shore  of  the  Caspian  Sea.'  It  was  resolved  that  these 
all  be  referred  to  the  Directors,  with  power  to  carry 
them  or  any  of  them  into  effect  if  they  think  proper. 
On  September  19,  1796,  it  was  resolved  'that  a  mission 
to  the  Foulah  country  appears  to  be  most  expedient  and 
practicable.'  By  the  Directors  present  at  the  same  meeting 
Mr.  Burder  was  requested  '  to  obtain  information  respecting 
the  existence  and  circumstances  of  the  Welsh  Indians, 
supposed  to  dwell  in  North  America,'  with  a  view  to 
mission-work  among  them.  Mr.  Burder's  search  resulted 
in  a  curious  paper  inserted  in  the  Evangelical  Magazi7ie 
for  1796,  in  which  he  indicates  that  evidence  exists  for  the 
belief  that  a  Welsh  prince  crossed  to  America  in  the 
eleventh  century  '  with  a  numerous  train  of  followers,'  and 
that  his  descendants,  still  speaking  Welsh,  were  to  be  found 
among  the  Choctaw  Indians  on  the  Mississippi  and  Missouri. 
Mr.  Burder  thought  that  when  fuller  tidings  of  these  people 
were  obtained,  *  a  host  of  zealous  ministers  of  Christ  in 
Wales  would  gladly  undertake  mission-work  among  them. 
The  information  never  was  forthcoming,  and  the  Welsh 
Indians  turned  out  a  myth.'  Towards  the  close  of  1796 
India  greatly  exercised  the  minds  of  the  Directors,  and  the 
steps  that  were  taken  have  been  described  on  pages  54-56. 
On  June  12,  1797,  the  Directors  resolved  'that  it  appears 
extremely  desirable  that  two  missionaries  should  be  sent  to 
India,  as  speedily  as  opportunities  offer,  or  conveyance  can 
be  obtained  in  a  Danish  or  American  ship ;  and  that 
Serampore  on  the  Ganges  appears  to  be  the  most  proper 
place  for  their  disembarkation.'  They  also  resolved  that 
two  missionaries  should  be  sent  to  '  Quebec  or  any  other 
part  of  Canada.' 

Upon    the    minutes   for  June   26,   1797,  we  read  'that 


EARLY  MISSIONARY  ENTERPRISE  103 

Mr.  Forsyth  be  accepted  as  a  missionary  for  India.'  This 
minute  begins  the  great  work  of  the  Society  in  India. 
We  shall  necessarily  refer  again  to  Mr.  Forsyth  when  we 
come  to  trace  his  work.  He  is  pre-eminently  one  of  those 
of  whom  we  would  fain  know  much  more.  Unfortunately, 
the  records  of  his  work  are  very  imperfect.  It  is,  however, 
both  curious  and  suggestive  that  the  first  missionary  sent 
by  the  Society  to  the  millions  of  India  should  also  have 
been  both  able  and  willing  to  maintain  himself.  On  the 
threshold  of  the  second  century  of  the  Society's  work  the  con- 
viction deepens  that  if  hundreds  of  those  Christian  people 
who  are  not  compelled  to  work  for  their  living,  and  who 
are  not  nearly  so  much  needed  in  this  favoured  land  as 
they  are  in  India,  would  go  forth,  as  Nathaniel  Forsyth 
did,  and  make  India  their  home,  and  try  to  create  there 
a  Christian  atmosphere  and  to  live  helpful  Christian  lives, 
the  coming  of  the  kingdom  of  God  in  that  vast  dependency 
of  the  British  Crown  would  be  greatly  hastened. 

On  July  24,  1797,  another  landmark  was  set  up. 
'  The  Directors  being  perfectly  satisfied  with  the  character, 
abilities,  and  missionary  spirit  of  Dr.  Vanderkemp  at 
Dordrecht,  do  unanimously  and  cordially  resolve  that  he 
be  accepted  as  a  missionary.'  Towards  the  close  of  1797 
the  condition  of  Jamaica  was  such  as  to  induce  the  Board 
to  take  active  steps  towards  a  mission  for  that  island.  Some 
correspondence  passed  with  Dr.  Coke  of  the  Wesleyan 
Church,  who  appeared  to  think  that  his  Church  had  an 
exclusive  right  to  mission-work  in  that  island.  The  Directors 
expressly  state  in  reply  their  view,  that  there  was  ample 
room  in  Jamaica  for  all  the  workers  who  could  be  sent, 
and  on  November  27,  1797,  it  was  resolved  to  send  out  four 
missionaries  as  soon  as  possible  ;  but  it  was  many  years 
before  the  first  missionaries  from  the  London  Missionary 
Society  were  able  to  begin  work  there.  On  the  same 
date  it  was  decided  to  send  a  mission  to  Hindostan,  the 
missionaries  to  land  at  Tranquebar. 

Under  the  stimulus  of  the  return  of  the  Duff  in  July, 
1798,  renewed  activity  in   undertaking  new  work  set   in. 


I04      THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

On  February  i8,  1799,  a  committee,  consisting  of  Hard- 
castle,  Bogue,  Covvie,  Captain  Wilson,  and  Steven,  was 
appointed  to  'consider  missions  to  the  British  settlements 
in  Asia '  ;  a  mission  was  appointed  for  '  Canada  or  any 
of  the  Indian  tribes  in  or  bordering  upon  the  British 
possessions  in  North  America ' ;  a  minister  was  chosen 
for  Twillingate  in  Newfoundland,  the  Society  to  aid  him 
for  three  years ;  and  a  mission  was  to  be  undertaken 
to  '  the  Indians  mentioned  in  Vancouver's  Voyages  on  the 
West  Coast  of  North  America^  'when  the  providence  of 
God  shall  facilitate  our  intercourse  with  that  part  of  the 
continent ;  and  a  committee  composed  of  Bogue,  Wilks, 
Reyner,  Yockney,  and  Cowie  be  formed  to  consider 
a  mission  to  the  West  India  Islands.' 

In  1804  work  was  begun  both  in  Ceylon,  and  by  Rin- 
geltaube,  Des  Granges,  and  Cran  in  South  India.  On 
May  28,  1804,  after  several  long  minutes  referring  to 
the  intended  mission  to  Surat,  there  is  this  entry :  '  The 
Committee  of  Examination  reported  that  they  had  examined 
Mr.  Robert  Morrison,  who  had  offered  himself  for  a 
missionary  to  the  heathen,  and  recommended  him  as 
a  suitable  person  to  be  employed  by  the  Society.  Re- 
solved that  Mr.  R.  Morrison  be  accepted,  agreeably  to  the 
recommendation  of  the  Committee,  and  that  he  be  sent 
to  the  Seminary  at  Gosport  as  soon  as  convenient.'  This 
entry  really  begins  the  Society's  work  in  China,  and  in 
1807  Morrison  was  on  his  way  to  that  huge  empire,  then 
and  for  many  years  later  so  closely  barred  against  the 
Gospel. 

In  1805,  'when  the  Directors  learnt  that  in  the  course 
of  Divine  Providence  the  populous  and  important  town  of 
Buenos  Ayres  had  become  a  part  of  the  British  Empire  ^,' 
a  mission  to  that  port  was  undertaken,  and  a  student 
from  Gosport,  named  David  Hill  Creighton,  sent  out  to 
begin  the  work.  Before  he  reached  his  destination  Buenos 
Ayres  was  retaken  by  the  Spaniards,   and  after  staying 

^  Report  for  1807. 


EARLY  MISSIONARY  ENTERPRISE  105 

some  time  in  Monte  Video,  Creighton  returned  to  England 
in  October,  1807,  and  early  in  1808  was  engaged  to  work 
with  the  Hibernian  Society. 

In  1807  a  more  successful  enterprise  was  undertaken. 
On  Feb.  8,  1  808,  John  Wray  landed  in  Demerara  and  thus 
began  mission-work  in  the  West  Indies.  On  April  11, 
i8c8,  Richard  Elliot  began  work  on  Tobago,  but  removed 
to  Le  Resouvenir,  Demerara,  in  j  814.  In  November,  1811, 
Mr.  B.  Bloomfield  sailed  for  Malta;  and  in  18 j 6  Isaac 
Lowndes  was  appointed  to  a  Greek  Mission,  beginning 
work  at  Zante  in  1819.  On  May  18,  1814,  John  Le  Brun 
reached  Port  Louis,  Mauritius,  his  w^ork  there  being 
preparatory  also  to  the  opening  of  the  Madagascar 
Mission.  On  May  26,  1814,  Joseph  Kam,  Gottlob  Bruck- 
ner, and  John  Christopher  Supper,  students  of  the  Nether- 
lands Missionary  Society,  w^ho  had  been  educated  at 
Berlin  and  Rotterdam,  landed  at  Batavia  to  begin  the 
mission  in  Java  which  the  Directors  had  undertaken  at 
the  urgent  request  of  Robert  Morrison.  On  May  20,  1817, 
Edward  Stallybrass  left  London  for  St.  Petersburg  to 
the  Buriat  or  Mongol  Mission,  settling  down  at  Selinginsk 
in  July,  18J9.  Madagascar  had  been  close  to  the  heart  of 
Vanderkemp,  and  of  some  of  the  most  influential  Directors, 
but  it  was  not  actually  resolved  upon  until  the  year  1817. 
Bevan  and  Jones  sailed  to  Mauritius  Feb.  9,  1818;  reached 
Tamatave  on  a  visit  of  inspection  August  18,  1818;  and 
actually  began  work  there,  Jones  on  Nov.  20,  1818,  Bevan 
Jan.  6, 1819.  Thus  originated  what  has  proved  to  be  one 
of  the  most  romantic  and  inspiring  missions  of  the  century. 

Thus  within  twenty-five  years  from  its  foundation  the 
Society  had  not  only  done  much  to  stimulate  Christian 
work  in  Great  Britain  and  upon  the  Continent,  but  it  had 
also  carried  the  Gospel  to  the  South  Seas,  to  South  Africa, 
to  China,  to  India,  and  to  Madagascar. 

The  wide  area  covered  by  the  Society's  work,  and  the 
rapid  extension  of  enterprise  and  labour  in  the  vast  field 
of  heathendom,  are  illustrated  by  the  following  table  of 
stations  and  missionaries  contained  in  the  Report  for  1820. 


io6      THE  EARLY  INNER   HISTORY:    1795-1820 

Already  the  grain  of  mustard  seed  was  shooting  up  into 
the  tall  strong  tree. 

SOUTH  SEAS. 

Georgian  (or  Windward)  Islands. 
Otaheite.    Matavai. — Charles  Wilson. 

Papeete  (or  Wilks'  Harbour). — W.  P.  Crook 

and  Robert  Bourne. 
Papetiridi  (District  of  Papara). — Henry  Bick- 
nell  and  Samuel  Tessier. 
ElMEO.  Papetoai. — William  Henry,  James  Hayward. 

OponoJuL    Harbour. —  David    Darling,    George 

Piatt,  and  John  Gyles. 
Society  (or  Leeward)  ISLANDS. 
Raiatea.     J.  M.  Orsmond,  L.   E.  Threlkeld,  and   John 

Williams. 
HUAHEINE.     John    Davies,    Henry   Nott,    Charles    Barff, 
and  William  Ellis. 

ULTRA    GANGES. 
China.         Canton. — Robert  Morrison,  D.D. 
Malacca.   ¥Ialacca.—^\\X\2.m    Milne,    C.    H.   Thomsen, 

W.  H.  Medhurst,  and  Robert  Fleming. 
PULO  Penang.     Thomas  Beighton  and  John  Ince. 
Java.  Batavia. — John  Slater. 

Singapore.     Samuel  Milton. 
Amboyna.     Joseph  Kam. 

EAST   INDIES. 

Calcutta.     Henry  Townley,  James  Keith,  John  Hamp- 

son,   and    Samuel  Trawin — George   Gogerly  (Printer 

and  Catechist). 
Chinsurah.     J.    D.    Pearson,   John    Harle,   and    George 

Mundy. 
Benares.     Matthew  Thomson  Adam. 
Vizagapatam.     John    Gordon,    Edward     Pritchett,    and 

James  Dawson. 
Madras.     W.     C.     Loveless,    Cornelius     Traveller,    and 

Thomas  Nicholson. 


STATIONS   OCCUPIED  IN  1S20  107 

Bellary.   John  Hands,  William  Reeve,  and  Joseph  Taylor. 
Bangalore.     Andrew  Forbes  and  Stephen  Laidler. 
South  Travancore.     Charles  Mead,  Charles  Mault,  and 

John  Smith. 
Surat.     James  Skinner  and  William  Fyvie. 

RUSSIA. 

Siberia.    Selinginsk. — Edward  Stallybrass,  William  Swan, 

and  Robert  Yuille. 
Sarepta.     Cornelius  Rahmn  (about  to  remove  to  Astra- 

chan). 

GREEK   MISSION. 
Zante.     Isaac  Lowndes. 
Malta.     Samuel  S.  Wilson. 

AFRICA. 

WITHIN    THE   COLONY. 
StelLENBOSCH.     J.  Bakker. 
The  Paarl.     Evan  Evans. 
TuLBAGH.     Ariel  Vos. 
Caledon  Institution.    {Vacaitt.) 
Pacalt'S-DORP.     J.  G.  Mcsser. 
Bethelsdorp.     George  Barker,  F.  G.  Hooper,  Erasmus 

Smith,  and  Jan  Goeyman  (iiative). 
Theopolis.     J.  G.  Ullbricht. 

BEYOND   the   COLONY. 
Caffraria.     (No  Missionary  at  present.) 
Griqua  Town.     William    Anderson,    Henry   Helm — and 

B.  Berend,  P.  David,  Piet  Sabba,  natives. 
New  Lattakoo.     Robert  Hamilton— J.  Hendrick,  native. 
Bethesda.     Christopher  Sass. 

NAxMAQUALAND.     Africaner  s  Kraal. — Robert  Mofifat. 

Warm  Bath. — (  Vacant^ 
Steinkopjf. — James  Kitchingman. 
BctJiany. — H.  Schmelen. 

AFRICAN    ISLANDS. 
Mauritius.     John  Le  Brun  and  David  Jones. 


io8      THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

Madagascar.     ( Vacant.)     It  is  intended  soon  to  recom- 
mence the  mission. 

WEST    INDIES. 
Demerara.     Geoi'ge  Town  and  the    West    Coast, — John 
Davies,  Richard  Elliot,  and  James  Mercer. 
Le  Resouvenir. — John  Smith. 
BerbiCE.     New  Amsterdam. — John  Wray. 
Trinidad.     Thomas  Adam. 

During  the  first  quarter  of  a  century  of  its  history  the 
Society  was  involved  in  two  matters  of  the  highest  impor- 
tance, both  of  which  necessitated  an  appeal  to  the  force  of 
public  opinion,  and  to  political  action.  The  first  was  the 
opening  of  India  to  Christian  missionaries;  the  second 
was  the  right  of  teaching  and  of  working  among  the  slaves 
in  the  British  West  Indies.  The  latter  subject  will  be 
dealt  with  fully  in  the  history  of  the  West  Indies  Mission. 
To  the  other  we  must  here  devote  a  little  space. 

It  is  not  at  all  to  the  credit  of  the  great  historic  cor- 
poration, the  East  India  Company,  that  it  threw  the  weight 
of  its  vast  influence  at  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth 
century  against  the  evangelization  of  India  ^.  In  1813 
it  became  necessary  for  the  Company  to  secure  a  renewal 
of  the  charter  under  which  its  powers  were  exercised. 
This  was  the  Society's  opportunity.  Aided  by  William 
Wilberforce  and  other  Christian  public  men,  public  opinion 
was  roused  and  parliamentary  action  invoked.  A  special 
general  meeting  was  held  at  the  New  London  Tavern 
on  April  5,  1813,  at  which  a  petition  was  adopted  and 
ordered  to  be  signed  as  widely  as  possible,  and  then  pre- 
sented to  the  Houses  of  Parliament. 

In  the  Report  for  1814  the  successful  result  of  this 
agitation  is  recorded  : — 

'  When  this  Society  last  assembled,  every  member  of  it 
felt  deeply  interested  in  the  applications  made  to  the 
Legislature,  (from  all  classes  of  pious  men,  and  from  all 
parts  of  our  country,)  for  permission  to  send  missionaries 

^  See  pp.  55,  56. 


VICTORY  OVER  EAST  INDIA    COMPANY       109 

to  India.  The  public  feeling  was  never  more  warmly- 
expressed.  Nine  hundred  petitions  (a  number  unequalled 
on  any  other  occasion)  claimed  liberty  to  preach  the  gospel 
to  the  millions  of  India.  The  Legislature  of  our  country, 
attentive  to  the  public  voice,  decided  in  favour  of  the 
petitioners,  and  an  Act  for  the  purpose  requested  passed 
both  houses  of  Parliament,  and  received  the  royal  assent 
on  July  21,  1 8 13.  This  Society  cannot  forget  how  much 
they  owe  to  those  honourable  members  of  both  houses  of 
Parliament  who  readily  presented  their  petitions,  and 
supported  them  by  their  manly  and  pious  eloquence. 
Their  thanks  are  also  due  to  his  Majesty's  Ministers,  who, 
in  the  most  polite  and  obliging  manner,  listened  to  their 
representations.  The  happy  effect  of  this  Act  has  already 
been  experienced,  and  liberty  allowed  for  missionaries  to 
proceed  to  the  East.' 

For  twenty-five  years  the  Society  had  the  effective  aid 
and  lasting  benefit  of  the  ability,  the  counsel,  and  the 
liberality  of  most  of  the  prominent  men  who  passed  through 
all  the  deep  spiritual  excitement  and  enthusiasm  out  of 
which  it  sprang.  The  losses  by  death  were  relatively  few. 
The  chief  were  John  Eyre  in  1803:  Joseph  Hardcastle  in 
1819  ;  and  Thomas  Haweis  in  1820.  And  of  these  three 
two  had  been  spared  for  many  years  to  be  the  strength 
and  stay  of  the  new  enterprise.  From  1820  the  change 
in  the  personnel  of  the  Society  became  much  more  rapid. 
In  quick  succession  many  of  the  old  standard-bearers  fell, 
leaving  the  work  to  younger  hands. 

The  Report  for  1820  admirably  sums  up  the  work  of  the 
first  quarter  of  a  century  : — 

'  Twenty-five  years  have  now  elapsed  since  the  formation 
of  this  Society.  It  arose  amidst  the  tumult  of  widely 
extended  war,  to  disseminate  principles  which  will  ultimately 
secure  the  peace  of  the  world.  It  arose  amidst  the  heat  of 
intestine  divisions,  in  a  spirit  of  union  and  kindness  which, 
in  some  future  era,  will  bind  together  the  whole  human 
race  in  one  harmonious  and  affectionate  brotherhood.  It 
arose  during  a  period  of  infidelity  and  blasphemy,  which 


no      THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

had  no  parallel  in  the  annals  of  any  preceding-  age,  to 
convey  to  barbarous  and  remote  nations  the  blessings  of 
the  Gospel,  which  were  contemptuously  rejected  even  in 
the  very  centre  of  Protestant  Christendom.  Let  us  pause, 
for  an  instant,  at  the  first  considerable  division  of  the 
Society's  history,  which  has  since  elapsed,  and,  as  from 
an  eminence,  take  a  momentary  survey  of  its  progress  and 
present  extent. 

'  For  many  years  its  stations  were  few,  its  success  small, 
its  disappointments  numerous,  its  disasters  sometimes 
severe.  Thousands,  whose  hearts  glowed  with  the  most 
lively  hope,  when  the  first  Missionaries  embarked  for 
Otaheite,  had  soon  to  learn,  that  patience  also  was  a  duty. 
At  length  came  glad  tidings  from  Africa,  and  we  were 
cheered  and  encouraged  by  the  intelligence,  that  the  poor, 
despised,  degraded  Hottentots,  had  received  the  Gospel  of 
the  grace  of  God.  About  the  same  time  the  Society  sent 
out  Missionaries  to  India  ;  and  from  that  period  its  opera- 
tions have  been  gradually  extending  in  the  East  and  in  the 
West,  in  the  North  and  in  the  South  ;  and  the  evidences  of 
its  usefulness  and  success  becoming,  year  after  year,  more 
numerous,  determinate,  and  satisfactory.  By  the  blessing 
of  God  on  its  exertions,  it  has  now  50  Missionary  Stations  ; 
in  connection  with  which  are  about  140  labourers,  including 
in  this  number,  Missionaries,  Assistants,  Native  Teachers, 
Schoolmasters,  &c. 

'  While  the  Directors  contemplate,  with  a  high  degree  of 
satisfaction,  the  progress  and  present  state  of  the  Society, 
they  also  derive  the  sincerest  pleasure  from  the  recollec- 
tion that,  during  the  period  under  review,  so  many  other 
Missionary  Societies,  as  well  as  kindred  Institutions,  have 
been  formed,  with  the  same  common  object ;  and  do  most 
cordially  rejoice  in  the  success  with  which  their  efforts  have 
been  respectively  crowned.  If  the  formation  of  this 
Society,  under  Providence,  tended,  in  a  considerable  degree, 
to  awaken  the  attention  of  the  Christian  world,  both  at 
home  and  abroad,  to  the  perishing  condition  of  the  heathen, 
and   to   the  obligation  of  sending  to  them  the  Gospel  of 


REVIEW  OF  FIRST   TWENTY-FIVE    YEARS      iii 

Jesus  Christ — therein  also  the  Directors  rejoice,  yea,  and 
will  rejoice,  while  they  give  all  the  praise  and  glory  to  God. 
Nor  can  they  refer  to  the  formation  of  the  Missionary 
Society,  without  at  the  same  time  adverting  to  the  exalted 
and  generous  principles  of  Christian  union  and  affection 
which  animated  the  multitudes  who  participated,  more  or 
less  directly,  in  the  proceedings  on  that  memorable  occasion. 
And  it  is  with  the  more  pleasure  that  the  Directors  refer 
to  this  circumstance,  because  they  conceive  there  are  just 
grounds  for  concluding  that  much  of  that  noble  spirit  of 
Christian  unanimity  and  philanthropy  which  at  present 
animates  the  members  of  various  Protestant  denominations, 
both  in  this  and  foreign  countries,  in  their  intercourse  with 
each  other,  may,  under  Providence,  be  attributed  to  the 
existence  of  the  Missionary  Society — to  the  truly  evan- 
gelical temper  displayed  by  the  individuals  who  were 
active  in  its  formation — to  the  broad  and  liberal  principles 
on  which  it  was  founded,  and  to  the  seeds  of  Christian 
unity  and  affection  which  it  has  been  instrumental  in 
disseminating. 

'  The  liberal  basis  of  this  Society,  and  the  catholic  spirit 
which  it  was  instrumental  in  diffusing,  at  once  suggested 
the  formation  of  other  highly  benevolent  and  useful  In- 
stitutions on  the  same  general  principles,  and  tended  to 
dispose  the  members  of  various  religious  communities  to 
cordial  union  and  co-operation  in  their  management  and 
support.  Those  Institutions  ^  are  now  imparting,  in  their 
various  spheres  of  labour,  the  most  important  benefits,  not 
only  to  our  own  country,  but  even  to  distant  nations  ; 
while  one,  standing  pre-eminent,  seems  already  to  over- 
shadow the  world  with  its  branches,  and  to  present  its  fruit 
for  the  moral  healing  and  health  of  people  of  almost  every 
language.  But  it  is  impossible  that  the  Directors  can 
contemplate  this  subject  without  experiencing  emotions  of 

'  \'iz.  the  Keligious  Tract  Society ;  the  tiritish  and  Foreign  Bible  Society ; 
the  Hibernian  Society ;  the  British  and  Foreign  School  Society^  as  well  as 
several  Missionary  Societies,  not  only  in  the  Uniled  Kingdom,  but  also  in 
foreign  countries. 


112      THE  EARLY  INNER  HISTORY:    1795-1820 

very  peculiar  pleasure,  when  they  recollect  that  the  Mis- 
sionary Society  set  the  example  of  various  denominations 
of  Christians  incorporating  for  the  joint  prosecution  of  a 
common  religious  object;  merging  in  the  great  principles 
of  their  common  faith,  all  minor  differences  of  sentiment ; 
in  the  spirit  of  Christian  love  and  union,  all  sectarian  and 
exclusive  feeling  ;  associating,  combining,  and  co-operating 
upon  that  universal  ground  on  which  all  true  believers,  in 
Jesus  Christ  are  viewed  by  Him,  and  in  Him,  irrespective 
of  their  peculiar  distinctions,  many  of  which,  perhaps,  in 
a  more  advanced  state  of  the  Christian  Church,  will  be 
regarded  only  as  the  badges  of  her  nonage  and  immaturity. 
'  Nor  do  the  Directors  thus  advert  to  the  liberal  principles 
on  which  this  Society  was  constituted,  to  the  catholic  spirit 
which  it  was  the  means  of  diffusing,  and  to  the  subsequent 
institution  of  various  other  Societies,  on  a  like  compre- 
hensive basis,  with  the  view  of  arrogating  any  praise,  or 
claiming  any  superiority  in  favour  of  its  constituents,  over 
those  of  other  similar  and  kindred  Institutions,  who,  they  are 
persuaded,  are  themselves  actuated  by  the  same  principles, 
and  have  been  instrumental  also  in  extending  the  prevalence 
of  the  same  spirit ;  but  they  simply  state  them  as  impor- 
tant historical  facts,  which  it  is  only  an  act  of  common 
justice  to  this  Society  to  record,  while  they  ascribe  the 
undivided  honour  and  glory  to  God,  from  whom  alone  all 
right  dispositions,  as  well  as  "  all  just  works,  do  proceed."  ' 

The  movements  and  progress  which  we  have  sketched, 
and  the  extracts  quoted  from  the  old  minute-books,  give  the 
reader  an  accurate  picture  of  the  breadth  and  variety  of 
the  missionary  energy  of  those  first  years.  It  was  the 
epoch  of  beginnings.  The  spirit  animating  the  sup- 
porters of  the  Society  was  in  the  highest  degree  admirable. 
They  felt  the  pressure  of  the  world's  need  ;  they  knew  the 
sweetness  and  power  of  the  Gospel  in  their  own  hearts  and 
lives  ;  they  knew  very  little  of  the  regions  and  the  peoples 
to  which  they  were  so  eager  to  dispatch  missions ;  and 
how  these  various  missions  were  to  be  sustained  after  they 


THE   SPIRIT  OF  THE   FOUNDERS  113 

had  been  begun  seems  almost  to  have  been  something  in 
the  nature  of  an  after-thought.  But  they  were  full  of  faith, 
full  of  zeal,  full  of  love  for  men,  and,  although,  as  we  look 
back  upon  their  marvellous  story,  here  and  there  we  seem  to 
espy  vulnerable  points  in  both  their  principles  and  their 
methods,  yet,  on  the  whole,  in  the  light  of  all  that  God  has 
wrought  during  the  century  just  closed,  we  cannot  but  feel 
that  history  has  more  than  justified  them. 


[Authorities. — Minute-books  and  Annual  Reports  of  the  Society  ;  Evan- 
gelical Magazine^  1 795-1820;  Memoirs  of  the  Life  of  the  Rev.  David 
Bogiie,  £>.£>.,hy  James  Bennett,  D.D.,  London,  1827  ;  Memoir  of  Joseph  Hard- 
castle,  Esq.,  London,  i860  ;  A  Memoir  of  the  Rev.  A.  Waugh,  D.D.,  by 
James  Hay  and  Henry  Belfrage,  London,  1830;  Memoirs  of  the  Lives  of 
Robert  Haldane  and  of  James  Alexander  Llaldane,  by  Alexander  Haldane, 
London,  1852;  and  other  memoirs  of  fathers  and  founders;  the  Journal  kept 
on  board  the  Duff  during  her  first  voyage ;  A  Visible  Display  of  Divine 
Providence,  or,  the  Journal  of  a  Captured  Missionary,  by  William  Gregory, 
London,  i8co  ;  Some  Lnteresting  Particulars  of  the  Second  Voyage  of  the  Duff, 
by  W.  H[owell],  Knaresborough,  1809.] 


I. 


NOTE  ON  PRONUNCIATION  OF  POLYNESIAN 

WORDS. 

Polynesian  dialects  abound  in  vowel  sounds,  perhaps  above  any 
other  language,  and  reject  all  double  consonants,  possessing  invari- 
ably  vowel  terminations,  both  of  their  syllables  and  words.  Every 
final  vowel  is,  therefore,  distinctly  sounded.  The  natives  sound 
the  vowels  with  great  distinctness  :  a  as  a  in  father,  ^  as  a  in 
fate,  I  as  i  in  marine,  ^  as  o  in  no,  u  as  oo  in  root,  ai  has  the 
sound  of  i  in  wine.     Thus — 


Tahiti    is  pronounced 

Pomare 

Tamatoa 

Huahine 

Atehuru 

Afareitu 

Atua 

Taata 

Aimata 


Tah-hee-te 

Po-ma-re 

Tah-mah-to-ah 

Hoo-ah-hee-nay 

Ah-tay-hoo-roo 

Ah-fah-ray-ee-too 

Ah-too-ah 

Tah-ah-tah 

Eye-mah-tah. 


These  examples  will  enable  the  careful  reader  to  approximate  the 
true  pronunciation  of  Polynesian  names. 


POLYNESIA 


I  2 


'  Sing  unto  the  Lord  a  new  song,  and  His  praise  from  the  end  of  the 
earth  ;  ye  that  go  down  to  the  sea,  and  all  that  is  therein,  the  isles,  and  the 
inhabitants  thereof.' — Isa.  xHi.  lo. 

'And  so  the  Word  had  breath,   and  wrought 
With  human  hands  the  creed  of  creeds. 
In  loveliness  of  perfect  deeds, 
More  strong  than  all  poetic  thought ; 

'  Which  he  may  read  that  binds  the  sheaf, 
Or  builds  the  house,  or  digs  the  grave, 
And  those  wild  eyes  that  watch  the  wave 
In  roarings  round  the  coral  reef.' 

Tennyson,  In  Memoriam. 

'I  John,  your  brother  and  partaker  with  you  in  the  tribulation  and 
kingdom  and  patience  which  are  in  Jesus,  was  in  the  isle  that  is  called 
Patnios,  for  the  Word  of  God  and  the  testimony  of  Jesus.'— 7?^y.  i.  9. 


CHAPTER    III 

THE    MISSION    TO   TAHITI 

A  MISSION  to  Otaheite  ^  had  as  early  as  17^7  been  one 
of  the  dreams  of  Carey,  '  the  inspired  cobbler.'  He,  like 
many  others,  had  been  enabled  to  enter  into  that  world 
of  romance — all  the  more  attractive  because  there  was  in 
it  so  much  of  fact — by  the  adventurous  voyages  of  Wallis 
and  Bligh  and  Cook.  The  tragic  death  of  the  greatest  of 
these  captains  in  1779,  on  the  beach  of  Hawaii,  helped  to 
deepen  the  impression  their  deeds  had  made  upon  the 
mind  of  the  nation.  These  pictures  of  lovely  scenes,  of 
stirring  adventure,  of  human  degradation  and  need  had 
also  powerfully  touched  the  imagination  of  Dr.  Hawcis. 
A  mission  to  these  dusky  islanders,  so  gentle,  so  favoured 
by  nature,  so  likely  to  be  easily  influenced  for  good,  as 
he  pictured  them  in  his  mind,  had  become  the  cherished 
purpose  of  his  heart.  His  grandson,  the  Rev.  H.  R.  Haweis, 
possesses  among  a  number  of  valuable  MSS.  relating  to  the 
period  this  memorandum  in  the  handwriting  of  Dr.  Hawcis  : 

'  The  reading  the  voyages  to  the  South  Seas,  and 
especially  to  Otaheite,  had  led  my  thoughts  earnestl}' 
to  desire,  whilst  Lady  Huntingdon  was  striving  to  send 
missionaries  to  America,  to  make  some  effort  to  send  some 
to  Otaheite  and  the  Southern  Isles.  On  canvassing  the 
matter,  I  think  in  1787  or  1789 — 1  am  not  sure  as  to  a  year, 

'  The  O  is  an  article  before  proper  nouns.     We  shall  always  refer  to  the 
island  under  its  true  name  of  Tahiti. 


ii8  THE  MISSION   TO   TAHITI 

it  might  perhaps  be  earlier — she  offered  me  two  of  her 
students  if  I  would  prepare  them  for  the  work,  and  take  on 
myself  the  expense  of  their  equipment  and  voyage,  which 
I  offered  to  do.  Two  young  men  of  the  name  of  Price  and 
Waugh  offered  themselves,  and  were  accepted,  and  taken 
under  the  care  of  Dr.  Walker  and  myself  at  Bath,  and 
afterwards  for  a  year  put  under  the  care  of  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Spencer  at  Wingfield,  and  were  reported  to  me  as  having 
make  creditable  progress  in  study.  On  going  to  Spa  Fields 
I  immediately  began  to  look  out  for  the  means  of  carrying 
into  execution  the  plan  I  had  laid  of  sending  missionaries 
to  Otaheite.  and  hearing  that  Captain  Bligh  was  appointed 
to  go  thither  in  the  Bounty,  I  got  access  to  him,  and  stating 
my  wishes,  prevailed  on  him  to  let  my  two  young  men 
accompanying  him  in  the  Bounty,  if  I  could  obtain  the 
leave  of  the  Government.  My  application  having  thus  met 
with  a  favourable  issue,  it  gave  me  confidence  that  now  this 
long  wish  of  my  heart  would  be  effected.' 

But  Dr.  Haweis  met  with  unexpected  difficulties.  Price 
and  Waugh  before  embarking  wished  to  be  ordained. 
Through  Romaine  Haweis  applied  to  the  Bishop  of  London, 
who  refused  ;  then  to  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  who 
granted  him  an  interview,  but  'the  result  was  a  polite 
refusal.'  Dr.  Haweis  reminded  the  young  men  of  their 
promise  to  go  wherever  God  might  send  them,  but  in 
vain,  for  he  continues  : — 

'  I  soon  found  that  they  thought  themselves  qualified  to 
set  up  for  preachers  at  home.  Thus  after  every  step  had 
been  taken,  and  every  favourable  opportunity  afforded, 
they  deserted  me  at  the  moment  of  embarkation.  The 
detail  of  their  after  proceedings  left  me  nothing  to  regret 
that  they  had  not  been  sent  on  a  service  they  would  have 
disgraced.' 

The  desire  to  promote  a  South  Sea  Mission  never  left 
Dr.  Haweis,  and  was  rekindled  when  he  became  acquainted 
with  '  that  precious  man  of  God,^  Mr.  Eyre,  of  Hackney, 
who,  as  editor  of  the  Evangelical  Review,  pressed  Dr.  Haweis 
to  help   him  in  writing  and   reviewing.     Dr.  Haweis  was 


DR.   HA  WE  IS'  MEMOIR,    1795  119 

thus  brought  into  direct  association  with  the  other  fathers 
and  founders  of  the  Society,  and  exerted  a  most  powerful 
influence  in  all  the  discussions  and  action  which  ensued 
in  1795. 

After  the  sermon  in  Surrey  Chapel  by  Rowland  Hill, 
on  the  morning  of  September  24,  1795,  Dr.  Haweis,  b)- 
special  request,  broached  the  proposal  that  Otaheitc  or 
some  one  of  the  South  Sea  Islands  should  be  the  first 
point  of  attack.  This  he  did  in  *a  speech  of  considerable 
length,'  and  '  in  a  very  energetic  and  convincing  manner.' 
Those  who  may  be  curious  on  the  subject-matter  of  the 
address  will  find  it  in  two  forms,  first  as  an  article  in 
the  Evangelical  Magazijie  for  July,  1795,  and  secondly  as 
a  memoir  appended  to  the  volume  of  '  Sermons  preached 
in  London  at  the  Formation  of  the  Missionary  Society,* 
and  published  in  November,  1795.  It  occupies  in  the 
latter  form  twenty-four  closely  printed  pages,  and  is  of 
great  value,  as  much  for  the  light  it  throws  upon  the 
amount  of  knowledge  possessed  about  foreign  people  and 
their  missionary  requirements  by  the  best  informed  men 
in  1795,  as  for  the  share  it  has  had  in  moulding  the 
history  of  the  century.  It  is  also  a  curious  and  most 
valuable  standard  by  which  to  judge  the  progress  the 
world  has  made  during  the  last  hundred  years. 

A  beginning  should  be  made.  Dr.  Haweis  argues,  "  first, 
where  the  difficulties  are  least.*    The  main  difficulties  are  : — 

(i)  '  An  inhospitable  climate.' 

(2)  'Absolute  governments,'  a  reason  which  shuts  out 
China  and  Japan,  both,  because  of  their  immense  popula- 
tions, '  desirable  objects  for  a  mission.' 

'  It  is  known,  that  though  Christians  have  access  to  both, 
they  are  guarded  with  the  most  scrupulous  attention.  A 
little  island  near  Naugasacki  in  Japan  is  allotted  the  Dutch, 
from  which,  on  pain  of  death,  no  creature  dares  to  move : 
when  the  annual  ship  arrives,  a  few  are  admitted  under  a 
guard  into  the  city,  till  the  short  traffic  being  completed 
they  are  again  prisoners  for  the  sake  of  gain,  till  the  re- 
turning year.    He  is  a  dead  man  that  steps  over  the  limits. 


I20  THE  MISSION    TO   TAHITI 

It  is  the  same  at  Canton  in  China  ;  though  the  prison  is 
not  quite  so  strait,  it  is  as  effectual,  and  to  transgress  the 
bounds  of  either  would  alike  be  fatal :  besides  the  inutility 
even  of  the  attempt,  without  a  previous  knowledge  of  these 
strange  and  difficult  languages.  I  agree  with  those  who 
think  a  missionary  is  not  fit  for  his  work  if  he  cannot  truly 
say,  I  count  not  my  life  dear  unto  myself,  but  it  is  no  more 
correspondent  with  Christian  principles,  than  human  pru- 
dence, to  tempt  God,  where  we  are  called  only  to  trust  Him 
in  the  path  of  duty.  It  is  presumption,  not  zeal,  that  would 
take  the  bull  by  the  horns.' 

(3)  '  Established  prejudices  of  false  religion.'  This  ex- 
cludes India  and  the  Mahometan  lands,  and  in  the  former 
'  our  brethren,  the  Baptists,  have  at  present  prevented  our 
wishes  ;  though  there  is  room  for  a  thousand  missionaries.' 

(4)  '  The  acquirement  of  languages.'  On  the  coast  of 
Africa  in  every  few  leagues  a  new  government  and  a  new 
language  are  found.  An  Indian  missionary  must  learn  at 
least  three.  Chinese  '  presents  difficulties  nearly  insuper- 
able from  the  amazing  number  of  its  characters.' 

Where,  then,  are  the  fewest  difficulties  found?  In  the 
South  Seas,  (i)  because  of  the  climate,  (2)  because  food 
is  there  so  easily  obtained. 

'  The  natives,  not  harassed  by  labour  for  daily  bread,  or' 
as  slaves,  have  abundant  time  for  instruction.  Every  man 
sitting  under  his  cocoa  or  bread-fruit  tree  is  at  hand,  and 
the  very  sound  of  a  hammer,  a  saw,  or  a  smith's  bellows' 
will  hardly  ever  fail  to  attract  an  audience.  Two  hundred 
thousand  inhabitants  are  reckoned  in  Otaheite  alone  ;  all 
ranged  round  its  beautiful  shores,  and  accessible  by  a 
thousand  canoes,  with  a  facility  that  no  other  road  can  ever 
afford.' 

(3)  Because  the  government  '  seems  monarchical  but  of 
the  mildest  nature,'  and  '  where  we  have  more  to  apprehend 
from  being  caressed  and  exalted  than  from  being  insulted 
and  oppressed.' 

(4)  There  are  no  religious  prejudices. 

•  Every  guilty  creature  feels  the  necessity  of  atonement  in 


LIBERALITY  OF  DR.   HAWEIS  '     121 

some  shape  or  form.  They  have  their  victims,  and  their 
Gods  :  we  are  yet  but  little  acquainted  with  these  ;  but  the 
little  that  we  do  know  affords  the  strongest  evidence  that 
their  priests,  if  there  are  such,  are  not  invested  with  any 
persecuting  power,  nor  can  the  people  be  averse  to  hear  us 
on  a  religious  subject,  whom  they  reverence  as  their  superiors 
almost  in  every  other.' 

(5)  Their  language  is  easily  acquired  — '  I  am  assured 
a  corporal  of  Marines,  after  three  months'  stay  on  the 
island,  spoke  it  fluently  ' — and  it  is  understood,  '  with  little 
variation/  over  all  '  the  immense  field  of  these  scattered 
islands.' 

Dr.  Haweis  had  what  was,  for  his  day,  the  best  ob- 
tainable and,  apparently,  reliable  evidence  for  all  these 
assertions.  But  this  was  based  upon  the  reports  of  men  who, 
though  intelligent  and  acute  observers,  had  yet  sketched 
only  the  merest  surface  life  of  the  islanders.  They  had 
looked  at  them  mainly  from  the  standpoint  of  the  man 
of  the  world,  and  had  no  more  conception  of  the  true 
nature  of  the  Tahitian  savage  than  many  of  our  military 
men  and  civilians  have  of  the  spiritual  needs  and  the 
religious  capacity  of  the  Hindu,  or  than  the  commercial 
man  in  China,  who  has  little  or  no  sympathy  with  Chris- 
tianity, has  of  the  religious  capabilities  and  achievements 
of  the  native  converts.  Dr.  Haweis  supported  his  views 
by  his  deeds.  He  gave  ;^5oo  towards  the  mission,  his 
energy  and  enthusiasm  entitle  him  to  be  called  the  Father 
of  Polynesian  Missions,  he  lived  through  the  long  and 
weary  night  of  toil,  and  he  was  permitted  to  see  the 
first  great  triumphs  of  the  Gospel  in  the  islands  of  the 
Southern  Sea.  But  he  would  have  given  very  different 
reasons  in  1820,  the  year  of  his  death,  for  selecting 
Tahiti  as  a  mission-field,  from  those  which  he  urged  so 
eloquently  in   1795. 

The  project  of  a  mission  to  Tahiti  and  the  surrounding 
islands  instantly  and  deeply  aroused  the  enthusiasm  of 
the  Society's  friends  all  over  the  kingdom.  As  soon  as 
the  Directors   had  organized  themselves  into  the  needful 


122  THE  MISSION   TO   TAHITI 

committees  they  began  to  enrol  missionaries,  and  to  receive 
the  contributions  which  flowed  in  rapidly  and  liberally.  The 
expedition,  from  the  standpoint  of  the  practical  man,  and 
of  worldly  common  sense,  appears  wildly  Utopian  in  plan, 
and  doomed  to  certain  failure  in  execution.  Looking  back 
upon  it  through  the  varied  experiences  of  a  hundred  years, 
it  has  more  than  justified  itself,  more  than  justified  the 
faith  of  the  men  who  believed  that  God  was  with  them, 
and  would  lead  them  on  to  success  ;  although  between  the 
first  onset  and  the  final  victory  they  were  to  tread  strange 
and  unimagined  pathways. 

It  soon  became  clear  to  the  Directors  that  the  shortest 
way  to  their  end  was  to  purchase  and  equip  their  own 
vessel.  It  is  hard  for  this  generation  to  comprehend  an 
England  when  there  were  no  steamships,  when  a  voyage 
to  India  occupied  five  or  six  months,  when  the  greater 
part  of  the  Pacific  Ocean  was  practically  an  unknown  sea. 
We  can  go  from  London  to  Samoa  in  six  weeks ;  in  1795, 
unless  you  were  able  to  charter  your  own  vessel,  it  might 
take  you  six  years,  and  even  in  your  own  vessel  the  voyage 
would  last  as  many  months  as  it  now  takes  weeks. 

In  all  great  enterprises  one  supreme  requisite  is  the 
right  leader.  Very  early  in  the  movements  which  led  to  the 
founding  of  the  Society  Captain  James  Wilson  had  offered 
his  services  to  Dr.  Haweis  for  this  purpose,  on  the  under- 
standing that  he  would  expect  no  remuneration.  This 
man  had  passed  through  an  extraordinary  career,  both 
in  regard  to  his  outward  deeds  and  adventures,  and  also 
in  his  spiritual  experience.  His  father  was  a  captain,  and 
his  early  years  were  passed  at  sea.  He  visited  America 
during  the  Revolutionary  struggle,  and  was  present  in 
^71 S  ^^  that  famous  event  in  the  world's  history — the 
Battle  of  Bunker's  Hill.  On  his  return  from  America  he 
went  to  India,  where,  among  his  many  adventures,  he  was 
enabled  to  relieve  Sir  Eyre  Cootes'  force  from  impending 
famine  near  Cuddalore.  Shortly  afterwards  he  was  cap- 
tured, and  the  story  of  his  imprisonment  by  Hyder  Ali, 
his  escape  and  recapture,  is  almost  beyond  belief.     We  are 


WILSON'S  LIFE  IN  INDIA  123 

able  to  quote  his  own  account  of  this  terrible  time  from 
a  hitherto  unpublished  letter  written  by  himself: — 

'Dear  Brother  and  Sister, 

'After  a  most  cruel  imprisonment  of  three  and  twenty 
months,  on  the  third  of  May,  1784,  I  arrived  at  Madras. 
I  am  at  present  first  officer  of  the  Intelligence,  belonging 
to  the  Honourable  Company,  which  is  a  pretty  good  berth 
at  present,  as  trade  is  very  dead  in  this  part  of  the  world. 
I  suppose  you  long  to  hear  of  my  sufferings.  As  I  have 
surmounted  them,  and  it  cannot  afflict  you,  only  while  you 
are  reading  them,  you  shall  have  a  short  account  of  them. 
In  the  year  1781  I  was  appointed  third  lieutenant  to  the 
Honourable  Company's  ship  Yarmouth. 

'  In  the  year  1782  we  were  sent  to  Madras  to  attend  the 
operations  of  the  army,  when  we  were  unfortunately  taken 
by  the  Fameux,  a  French  frigate  of  44  guns,  the  15th  June. 
On  the  20th  we  were  sent  ashore  at  Cuddalore,  and  on 
the  3cth  the  French  governor  told  us  to  get  ready,  for 
we  were  to  be  delivered  over  to  Hyder  Alley,  the  thought 
of  which  frightened  me  so  that  I  determined  to  make  my 
escape,  if  possible,  out  of  the  garrison,  which  I  did  an  hour 
before  we  were  to  have  marched  out. 

'  After  I  got  clear  of  the  garrison  I  proceeded  as  fast 
as  possible  towards  Tranquebar,  a  Danish  settlement, 
eighteen  leagues  from  Cuddalore.  I  swam  across  Porto 
Nova  river,  the  Coleroon,  and  two  or  three  more  rivers, 
that  were  full  of  sharks  and  alligators  ;  went  through  several 
jungles  that  were  frequented  by  tigers,  not  daring  to  go 
up  the  high  road  on  account  of  Hyder's  horse,  till  I  at 
last  by  break  of  day  got  within  six  miles  of  the  place, 
when  I  was  surrounded  by  fifty  of  Hyder's  horse.  They 
took  me  prisoner,  stripped  me  naked,  tied  my  hands 
behind  me,  and  marched  me  between  two  horses  thirty-five 
miles  in  the  heat  of  the  sun  to  a  place  called  Chihlimbrum. 
They  then  put  my  hands  and  legs  in  strong  irons,  kept 
me  ten  days  in  a  dark  dungeon,  gave  me  nothing  to  sub- 
sist on  but  Conge  water,  and  at  last  took  me  out  with  my 


124  THE  MISSION  TO   TAHITI 

hands  in  irons,  and  a  rope  round  my  arm  about  two  inches 
thick  and  five  fathoms  long.     In  this  condition  I  marched 

to  a  place  called ^.     They  gave   me   nothing  to  eat 

but  a  little  dirty  rice,  which  soon  occasioned  a  violent 
flux.  Having  nothing  to  cover  me,  and  being  exposed 
to  the  heat  of  the  sun  all  day,  my  skin  was  burned  all  off 
me^  so  that  I  became  like  a  young  bird  just  come  out  of 
the  shell.  My  hair,  that  was  thick  and  long,  turned  quite 
grey  and  came  all  off.  In  this  condition,  after  thirty  days' 
march  to  Seringapatam,  I  was  put  in  prison  along  with 
112  of  Colonel  Bailey's  soldiers,  where  I  remained  with 
my  hands  and  legs  in  irons,  and  in  a  sickly  state,  till  we 
were  released.  Out  of  1 1 2  of  the  soldiers  there  were  only 
32  came  out  alive. 

'  Dear  brother  and  sister,  what  must  I  have  felt  the 
day  my  irons  were  knocked  off!  I  assure  you  I  was  not 
able  to  walk  without  the  assistance  of  two  soldiers.  The 
next  day  I  joined  all  the  gentlemen,  who,  after  hearing  my 
story,  declared  that  I  had  suffered  more  than  anybody 
that  had  been  taken  during  the  war.  We  all  marched 
down  together  with  light  hearts,  such  as  are  only  known 
to  those  who  have  suffered  as  we  have  done.  On  the  third 
of  May  I  arrived  at  Madras,  to  the  unspeakable  surprise 
of  all  my  acquaintances,  who  had  given  me  over  for  dead. 

'  I  immediately  proceeded  to  Bengal,  and  on  July  i, 
1783.  was  appointed  first  officer  of  the  Intelligence.  I  am 
now  five  and  twenty,  and  you  are  six  and  forty.  If  I  were 
alongside  of  you,  I  don't  know  but  that  they  would  take 
me  to  be  the  eldest.  I  don't  know  what  good  living  may 
do.  My  hair  is  just  sprouting  out.  I  beg  you  will  write 
to  my  mother  and  sisters,  and  brother  John,  and  let  them 
know  that  I  still  remember  them, 

'  Truly  yours, 

'J AS.  Wilson. 

'Intelligence,  Calcutta.     September  1,  1784.' 

^  Name  illegible  in  MS. 


CAPTAIN   WILSON'S   CONVERSION  125 

Neither  his  sufferings  nor  his  marvellous  escapes  had 
softened  Captain  Wilson's  heart.  '  He  returned  to  life 
and  health  with  all  the  same  corrupt  propensities,  the  same 
unrenewed  heart,  the  same  forgetfulness  of  God  and  con- 
tempt of  His  word  and  commandments  ^'  He  resumed  his 
seafaring  life,  and  was  repeatedly  in  peril  of  various  kinds. 
But  at  length  he  amassed  what  he  considered  a  com- 
petence, and  determined  to  settle  down  quietly  in  England. 
Mr.  Thomas,  afterwards  one  of  the  Baptist  missionaries 
at  Serampore,  was  a  fellow-passenger  in  the  ship  that 
carried  him  home.  They  often  discussed  Christianity,  and 
at  length  Thomas  observed  to  the  chief  mate  that  he 
should  have  much  more  hope  of  converting  the  Lascars 
than  Captain  Wilson.  The  old  sailor  finally  settled  down 
at  Horndean,  in  Hampshire.  After  two  years'  residence, 
a  conversation  accidentally  began  with  the  Rev.  John 
Griffin,  minister  of  Orange  Street  Chapel,  Portsea,  led  him 
first  to  read  Burn's  The  Christian  Officer  s  Panoply.  This 
led  him  to  the  Bible  ;  and  then  a  sermon  by  Mr.  Griffin 
made  such  a  deep  impression  upon  his  mind,  that  he 
yielded  to  the  truth  and  the  power  of  the  Gospel.  Through 
reading  in  the  Evangelical  Magazine  an  account  of  the 
intended  mission  to  the  South  Seas,  his  thoughts  were  led 
in  that  direction.  He  accompanied  his  pastor,  Mr.  Griffin, 
to  the  meetings  at  which  the  Society  was  organized,  and  his 
whole  previous  life  had  tended  to  make  him  just  the  man 
that  the  occasion  required.  He  obtained  an  introduction 
to  Dr.  Haweis,  offered  his  services  as  captain  of  the  ship 
to  be  sent  out,  wrote  at  Dr.  Haweis'  suggestion  his  offer 
to  the  Directors,  by  whom  it  was  gladly  accepted.  In  all 
the  details  relating  to  the  purchase  and  fitting  of  the  Duff 
he  was  consulted,  visiting  London  frequently  for  that 
purpose.  He  sold  his  house  at  Horndean,  and  so  arranged 
his  own  affairs  as  to  be  able  to  give  all  the  time  and 
attention  that  the  successful  conduct  of  the  great  enter- 
prise might  require.  There  are  many  signs  of  God's 
providential  guidance  of  the  affairs  of  the  infant  Society  : 

'   Memoirs  of  Captaiti  James  Wilson,  by  John  (jrifTin,  ind  edition,  p.  23. 


126  THE    MISSION   TO   TAHITI 

in  none  can  His  hand  be  more  clearly  traced  than  in  this 
choice  of  the  captain.     Well  may  his  biographer  say  : — 

'Through  the  whole  of  his  eventful  story  we  discover 
a  beautiful  and  admirable  development  of  the  leadings  of 
Divine  Providence.  Who  would  have  looked  for  a  com- 
mander of  a  Christian  mission  in  an  impious  and  infidel 
sailor,  chained  in  a  prison  at  Seringapatam  ?  Who  would 
have  expected  to  have  found  the  man  who  returned  from 
India  contradicting  and  blaspheming  the  faithful  leader 
in  the  missionary  cause,  within  five  years  afterwards  on  the 
quarter-deck,  in  the  midst  of  prayer  and  praise,  carrying 
the  everlasting  Gospel  to  the  isles  of  the  Pacific  Ocean? 
Who  that  reads  the  history  of  his  eventful  life  can  hesitate 
to  confirm  the  exclamation  of  the  Moor-man,  "  This  is 
God's  man^ !  "  ' 

While  Captain  Wilson  was  busy  collecting  his  crew  and 
securing  his  stores,  special  committees  in  different  parts  of 
the  country  were  testing  those  who  offered  their  services 
as  missionaries.  Their  experience,  confirmed  all  through 
the  century,  indicates  that  committees  cannot  be  too 
careful  in  this  matter.  Enormous  waste,  both  of  money 
and  of  time,  is  caused  when  unfit  persons  are  accepted 
for  this  service.  It  is,  of  course,  not  given  to  man  to 
read  the  heart  of  his  fellow-men  perfectly.  Those  who 
from  time  to  time  appear  at  a  disadvantage  before  com- 
mittees occasionally  render  splendid  service  in  the  field. 
Yet  never  was  there  greater  need  than  now  for  laying  it 
down  almost  as  an  axiom  in  the  case  of  both  men  and 
women,  that  if  there  is  any  doubt,  either  as  to  health  or 
moral  fibre,  or  intellectual  and  spiritual  quality,  the 
verdict  should  go  against  the  candidate.  Better  far,  after 
exercising  to  the  best  of  their  ability  the  faculty  of 
insight,  for  a  committee  to  lose  one  suitable  candidate 
now  and  then,  than  to  allow  others  who  appear  some- 
what doubtful  even  to  begin  the  work.  The  old  minute- 
books  of  the  Examination  Committee  are  evidence  that 
our  fathers  took  pains  in  sifting  and  searching  the  men 

^  Memoirs  of  Captain  James  Wilson ,  by  John  Griffin,  2nd  edition,  p.  134. 


THE   THIRTY  MISSIONARIES  127 

who  came  before  them.  But  the  story  of  Tahiti  and  the 
events  that  happened  there  did  not  confirm,  with  regard 
to  many  of  the  men  sent  out,  the  accuracy  of  their 
judgment. 

By  the  time  the  Duff  was  ready  for  sea,  the  list  of 
accepted  missionaries  comprised  thirty  names,  exclusive 
of  wives  and  children.  Four  only  were  ordained 
ministers  :  James  Fleet  Cover,  John  Eyre,  John  Jefferson, 
and  Thomas  Lewis.  Of  these  Cover  and  Eyre  were 
married,  the  wife  of  the  latter,  though  he  was  only 
twenty-eight,  being  sixty-four  years  old !  The  remaining 
twenty-six  were  Henry  Bicknell,  carpenter  ;  Daniel  Bowell, 
shopkeeper ;  Benjamin  Broomhall,  harness  maker  ;  John 
Buchanan,  tailor ;  James  Cooper,  shoemaker ;  John  Cock, 
carpenter  ;  William  Crook,  gentleman's  servant ;  Samuel 
Clode,  gardener ;  John  A.  Gillham,  surgeon  ;  Peter 
Hodges,  blacksmith  ;  William  Henry,  carpenter  ;  John 
Harris,  cooper ;  Edward  Hudden,  butcher  ;  Samuel 
Harper,  cotton  manufacturer  ;  Rowland  Hassell,  weaver  ; 
Seth  Kelso,  weaver ;  Edward  Main,  tailor ;  Isaac  Nobbs, 
hatter  ;  Henry  Nott,  bricklayer ;  Francis  Oakes,  shoe- 
maker ;  James  Puckey,  carpenter  ;  William  Puckey,  car- 
penter ;  William  Smith,  linen  draper ;  William  Shelley. 
cabinet  maker ;  George  Veeson,  bricklayer ;  James 
Wilkinson,  carpenter.  Of  these,  Hassell,  Henry,  Hodges, 
and  Hudden  were  married.  The  six  wives  and  three 
boys,  one  named  Cover,  aged  twelve,  and  two  named 
Hassell,  one  aged  two  years,  the  other  sixteen  weeks, 
completed  this  strange  company.  Not  included  in  the 
printed  list,  but  among  those  afterwards  left  at  Tongatabu, 
was  Samuel  Gaulton,  who  is  described  as  '  a  probationer.' 
The  reason  why  there  was  so  undue  a  proportion  of 
handicraftsmen  and  tradesmen  was,  undoubtedly,  the  belief 
that  the  natives  would  speedily  see  the  value  of  European 
civilization,  and  be  glad  to  learn  trades. 

In  addition  to  Captain  Wilson,  the  Duff  carried  William 
Wilson,  the  captain's  nephew,  as  chief  officer ;  Thomas 
Godsell,    second    officer ;    James    Falconer,    third    officer ; 


128  THE  MISSION   TO    TAHITI 

a  crew  seventeen  in  number,  an  apprentice,  and  a  boy — 
twenty-two  in  all.  They  were  picked  men,  many  of  them 
being  church  members.  So  different  was  their  behaviour 
from  that  usually  met  with  on  board  ship,  that  during  the 
six  weeks'  delay  at  Portsmouth  it  '  excited  no  small 
measure  of  surprise  and  wonder  at  its  novelty,'  and  on 
the  China  station  during  the  return  voyage  won  for  the 
ship  the  nickname  of '  The  Ten  Commandments.' 

A  solemn  service,  dedicating  the  missionaries  to  their 
new  and  lofty  work,  was  held  in  Zion  Chapel  on  the 
evening  of  Thursday,  July  28,  1796.  'As  notice  of  the 
designation  had  been  given  from  the  pulpits  of  the  friends 
of  the  Institution  in  London  on  the  preceding  Sabbath, 
several  thousands  of  people  were  assembled  long  before 
the  time  of  worship  commenced.  So  crowded  and  serious 
an  assembly  has  been  seldom  seen  on  any  occasion.  Every 
ear  was  attentive  to  the  judicious  and  solid  discourse  of  the 
preachers  ;  and  every  heart  seemed  to  feel  when  those 
servants  of  God,  who  had  freely  offered  themselves  in  this 
arduous  undertaking,  solemnly  pledged  themselves  to  per- 
severe in  the  name  and  strength  of  the  Lord^.' 

The  order  of  proceedings  in  the  handwriting  of  Dr.  Haweis 
is  still  extant^.  The  hymn  '  Come,  Holy  Ghost '  was  sung, 
and  then  prayers  were  read  by  the  Rev.  John  Eyre.  Then 
the  hymn  'O'er  the  gloomy  hills  of  darkness'  was  given 
out  by  the  Rev.  W.  F.  Piatt.  Prayer  was  offered  by 
Mr.  Walker,  and  then  Dr.  Hunter  preached  the  sermon 
from  our  Lord's  instructions  to  the  Seventy,  Luke  x.  i,  2 
and  following  verses,  and  at  the  close  of  this  the  Doxology 
was  sung.  The  missionaries  then  came  forward  and  stood 
around  the  communion  rails,  within  which  the  following 
ministers  had  taken  their  places  :  Dr.  Williams  (Inde- 
pendent), Dr.  Haweis  (Episcopalian),  Alexander  Waugh 
(Presbyterian),  Matthew  Wilks  (Calvinistic  Methodist), 
John  Love  (Scotch  Seceder),  and  John  Reynolds  (Inde- 
pendent).    Dr.  Williams  gave  an  elaborate  charge  to  the 

'  Evangelical  Magazine,  1796,  p.  342. 

^  MSS.  in  possession  of  Rev.  H.  R.  Haweis. 


FIRST  VALEDICTORY  SERVICE  129 

missionaries  based  upon  Gen.  xvii.  i.  Then  the  ministers 
in  turn,  taking  a  Bible  from  the  table,  presented  it  to  a 
missionary,  saying  with  each  presentation,  '  Our  beloved 
brother,  go,  live  agreeably  to  this  word  (putting  the  Bible 
into  his  hand),  and  publish  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
the  Heathen,  according  to  your  gifts,  calling,  and  abilities. 
In  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.'  To  which  each  missionary  replied^,  '  I  will, 
the  Lord  being  my  helper.'  The  Commendatory  Prayer 
was  then  offered  by  Dr.  Haweis,  and  the  service  brought 
to  a  close  by  singing  the  hymn  *  Captain  of  Thine  en- 
listed host.'  *  Such  a  sight  was  truly  impressive,  not  merely 
on  account  of  its  novelty,  or  the  advantages  that  may 
result  to  the  heathen  world,  but  for  the  cordial  affection 
which  so  happily  subsists,  and  evidently  increases  in  minis- 
ters of  different  denominations,  who,  previous  to  this 
Institution,  had  neither  fellowship  nor  intercourse  with  each 
other  \' 

All  being  ready  for  the  ship's  departure,  a  farewell 
Communion  Service  was  held  on  the  evening  of  August  9, 
in  the  Haberdashers'  Hall  Meeting-house.  Dr.  Haweis 
presided,  and  the  following  ministers  took  part — Reynolds, 
Hunter,  Wilks,  and  Eyre.  A  contemporary  account 
states,  '  If  ever  God  was  present  in  the  assemblies  of  His 
saints,  surely  He  was  present  on  that  occasion.'  On 
August  10,  1796,  at  6  a.m.,  the  mission-flag,  'three  doves 
argent,  on  a  purple  field,  bearing  olive  branches  in  their 
bills,'  was  hoisted,  and  the  anchor  weighed.  Everything 
augured  well.  The  morning  was  fine,  the  breeze  favour- 
able, and  as  the  vessel  began  to  glide  down  the  Thames 
those  on  board  sang — 

Jesus,  at  Thy  command, 
We  launch  into  the  deep. 

At  Woolwich  an  immense  crowd  had  collected  to  see  the 
ship  pass  by,  and  reaching  Gravcsend  at  noon,  the  vessel 
anchored    for    the    night.     Dr.  Haweis  and   two   London 

*  Evangelical  Magazine,  1796,  p.  342. 
I.  K 


130  THE  MISSION  TO   TAHITI 

ministers,  Matthew  Wilks  and  Thomas  Brooksbank,  accom- 
panied the  missionaries,  intending  to  stay  on  board  the 
Duff  until  she  joined  the  convoy  and  finally  sailed  for 
Tahiti.  Dr.  Haweis  kept  a  journal  of  this  trip,  full  of 
details  of  very  great  interest  to  the  reader  of  to-day  : — 

'  Saturday  J  Atigttst  13. — Hailed  in  the  night  by  a  man- 
of-war  ;  "  Whither  bound  ?  "  "  Otaheite."  *^'  What  cargo  ?" 
"  Missionaries  and  provisions."  Sent  a  midshipman  on 
board  to  take  a  note  of  us  and  our  destination.' 

^  Sunday^  August  14.- — At  ten  o'clock  I  was  able  to 
preach  from  2  Cor.  xii.  10.  The  circumstances  of  many 
of  us  as  well  as  my  own  made  it  a  precious  word.  At  two, 
again,  on  the  quarter-deck  heard  Brother  Brooksbank. 
Too  unwell  to  hear  Brother  Wilks,  who  preached  at  six. 
It  was  a  real  Sabbath,  I  believe,  to  us  all,  and  a  time  of 
refreshing  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord.  Few  such 
Sabbaths  before,  since  the  creation  of  the  world,  have  been 
thus  kept  on  the  deep,  or  such  men  of  God,  missionaries 
and  mariners,  found  to  make  the  audience.' 

'  Tiiesday,  August  \6, — We  arrived  very  early  at  Spithead 
this  morning,  and  found  the  convoy  gone,  to  our  great 
disappointment.  We  had  hurried  and  inconvenienced  our- 
selves to  no  purpose ;  but  we  must  begin  to  learn  patience 
and  faith. 

'  Multitudes  visit  us  from  all  parts.  Captain  Wilson  all 
attention,  wrapt  up  in  his  awful  charge,  will  not  leave  the 
ship  to  visit  any  friends  on  shore. 

'The  missionaries  rise  daily  in  our  estimation.  I  have 
heard  many  of  them  speak  and  pray ;  their  gifts  and 
abilities  far  exceeding  expectations.  I  was  particularly 
affected  with  Nott's  prayer  and  address  ;  my  spirit  has 
not  on  the  voyage  had  a  greater  refreshment.' 

*  Thursday,  September  24. — Looked  at  the  vane  as  soon 
as  I  rose,  which  I  had  so  many  times  done  before  with 
disappointment — found  the  wind  veered  to  the  north. 
Hastened  on  board.  The  scene  beautiful  beyond  descrip- 
tion, the  day  fine,  the  breeze  gentle,  the  men-of-war  leading 
the  way,  and  about  sixty  vessels  under  sail,  falling  down 


HAWEIS'  DIARY  ON  THE  DUFF  131 

with  the  tide.  Came  to  an  anchor  when  the  tide  turned. 
Called  all  hands  on  the  quarter-deck,  captain,  mates, 
missionaries,  mariners.  If  the  wind  be  fair  we  are  separ- 
ating. Ah !  what  a  thousand  considerations  rushed  on  my 
mind.  I  preached  from  Heb.  iii.  i  ;  sung  "  Jesus,  at  Thy 
command,"  and  after  commending  them  to  God  and  the 
work  to  which  He  had  appointed  them,  we  closed  with 
"  Blest  be  the  dear  uniting  love,"  sung  with  peculiar 
sensibility  and  many  tears.  I  then  went  round  to  every 
missionary  to  give  him  my  parting  benediction,  and  shook 
them  by  the  hand  ;  to  the  good  women  the  same.  Not 
a  person  discovered  the  least  dismay  or  regret,  but  all 
with  united  hearts  looked  forward  with  courage,  and 
looked  up  with  faith.  The  dear,  good  captain  bade  me 
farewell.  I  blessed  him  and  his  work.  The  evening 
approached.  I  must  go.  I  descended,  with  a  thousand 
different  sensations,  the  ladder  I  had  so  often  mounted, 
and  sat  down  in  the  stern  of  the  boat :  the  sail  was  hoisted. 
I  looked  back,  and  prayed  for  them ;  we  were  in  a  moment 
out  of  hearing — we  waved  to  each  other — the  boat  flew 
through  the  water  :  the  Duff  began  to  mingle  among  the 
multitude  of  vessels  around  her.  Soon  she  became  undis- 
tinguishable  from  them.  God  be  praised,  who  has  led  us 
hitherto.' 

The  Duff,  as  noted  in  the  diary  of  Dr.  Haweis,  missed 
the  convoy  she  had  hoped  to  sail  with,  and  whose  protec- 
tion was  needful,  owing  to  the  war  then  raging  between 
England  and  France.  She  cast  anchor  at  Spithead  at 
8  a.m.  on  August  16.  She  was  at  once  visited  by  John 
Griffin,  of  Portsea,  John  Eyre,  of  London,  and  many  other 
friends.  Waiting  for  another  convoy  was  a  long  and 
weary  business.  Meanwhile,  in  the  official  journal  kept  on 
board  the  ship  we  find  extracts  like  these  : — 

'August  17. — Mrs.  Iludden,  being  affected  by  the  sea, 
as  most  of  us  had  been  at  first,  fell  into  such  a  dejection 
of  mind  as  engaged  us  to  send  her  on  shore  at  her  request. 
Her  husband  went  with  her,  though  reluctantly;  a  man 
of  meek  and  quiet  spirit,  and   might   have  been  a   useful 

K  2 


132  THE  MISSION  TO   TAHITI 

member  of  our  community ;  but  the  Directors  thought  it 
by  no  means  right  to  separate  man  and  wife. 

'  An  ingenious  clergyman  of  Portsmouth  kindly  furnished 
Dr.  Haweis  and  Mr.  Greatheed  with  a  manuscript  vocabu- 
lary of  the  Otaheitean  language,  and  an  account  of  the 
country,  which  providentially  he  had  preserved  from  the 
mutineers  who  were  seized  by  the  Pandora,  and  brought 
to  Portsmouth  for  their  trial,  which  was  of  unspeakable 
service  to  the  missionaries,  both  for  the  help  which  it 
afforded  them  to  learn  before  their  arrival  much  of  this 
unknown  tongue,  and  also  as  giving  the  most  inviting  and 
encouraging  description  of  the  natives,  and  the  cordial 
reception  which  they  might  expect. 

'  Here  also  were  deposited  in  peace  the  remains  of 
Mr.  Cover's  little  boy,  who,  in  the  last  stage  of  consump- 
tion, earnestly  wished  to  accompany  his  parents,  though 
it  was  evident  to  every  intelligent  medical  man  that  he 
could  have  but  a  few  days  to  live,  and  was  happily  released 
before  their  departure.' 

On  September  24,  1796,  the  wind  being  favourable,  the 
signal  was  made  for  the  fleet  to  sail,  and  the  fifty-seven 
'  sail  of  transports  and  Portugal  traders '  were  under  way 
by  5  a.m.  Thus  really  began  the  first  voyage  of  an 
English  ship  laden  only  with  missionaries  and  their 
equipments,  worked  by  a  godly  crew,  and  bent  on  helping 
to  usher  in  a  new  era  for  humanity.  England  has  both 
before  and  since  sent  out  many  a  fleet  from  Portsmouth 
intent  on  conquest,  on  the  repulse  of  her  enemies,  on 
voyages  of  commerce,  discovery,  of  scientific  research  ;  but 
she  has  never  done  anything  fraught  with  more  hope  for 
men,  and  calculated  to  reflect  more  glory  upon  herself,  than 
this  voyage  of  the  Duff.  Sent  out,  not  by  Government, 
but  by  private  energy  and  zeal,  in  strong  faith  and  humble 
dependence  upon  God,  sailing  under  the  greatest  Captain, 
seeking  only  the  noblest  ends,  the  voyage  of  the  Duff 
deserves  a  foremost  place  in  our  national  annals  of  the  sea. 

On  September  25, '  at  6  p.m.  the  Land's  End  bore  north, 
distant   five    leagues.'     This    was    the    last   sight    of   old 


VOYAGE  OF  THE  DUFF 


133 


England  that  many  on  board  were  ever  to  have,  and  they, 
no  doubt,  felt  much  on  the  occasion,  '  though  sensible  it 
was  not  for  those  who  had  parted  with  country  and  friends, 
and  taken  up  the  cross,  to  look  behind.'  On  the  30th, 
in  latitude  44°  50'  N.  and  longitude  11°  17'  VV.,  Captain 
Wilson  thought  he  might  venture  to  part  company  with 
the  fleet  and  convoy,  the  more  so  as  the  Duff  had  proved 
herself  a  faster  sailer  than  any  vessel,  save  the  men-of-war. 
After  a  rapid  and  prosperous  run,  touching  at  St.  lago,  in 
the  Cape  de  Verde  Islands,  on  October  14,  they  anchored 
in  the  harbour  of  Rio  de  Janeiro  on  November  12,  to  refit 
and  provision  for  the  long  voyage  before  them.  On 
November  20  the  Duff  started  to  round  Cape  Horn,  but 
in  less  than  a  fortnight  met  such  severe  weather  that 
Captain  Wilson,  after  careful  consideration,  gave  up  the 
attempt  to  round  the  Cape,  a  course  which  '  required 
a  crew  of  hardy  sailors,  unaccompanied  by  tender  women 
and  children,  and  adopted  the  resolution  of  going  the 
Eastern  passage  :  that  is,  to  pass  a  few  degrees  south  of 
the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  to  sail  to  the  southward  of  the 
south  cape  of  New  Holland  and  New  Zealand,  till  near 
the  meridian  of  Otaheite,  and  then  to  steer  to  the  north- 
ward for  that  island.'  This  route  was  double  the  distance 
of  the  other — 14,000  miles  instead  of  7,000 — but  the  result 
justified  the  captain.  The  Duff  made  a  wonderfully  quick 
and  safe  passage.  On  February  21,  1797,  the  journal 
records :  *  Ninety-seven  days  had  now  passed  since  we  left 
Rio  Janeiro,  and  except  one  vessel  which  we  met  with 
a  week  after  our  departure,  we  had  not  in  all  this  time 
seen  either  ship  or  shore,  and  had  sailed  by  our  log  13,^20 
miles,  a  greater  distance  than  probably  was  ever  before 
run  without  touching  at  any  place.' 

The  first  land  sighted  was  the  island  of  Tubuai,  dis- 
covered by  Captain  Cook  in  1777,  the  island  upon  which 
the  mutineers  of  the  Bounty  tried  in  1789  to  form  their 
settlement.  Captain  Wilson  made  no  effort  to  land,  chiefly 
because  the  mutineers  had  behaved  so  cruelly  that  white 
men  were  almost  certain  to  arouse    the    hostility  of  the 


134  1'^^  MISSION  TO   TAHITI 

natives.  On  February  27,  as  they  were  now  drawing  very 
near  the  scene  of  their  labours,  in  accordance  with  their 
instructions,  they  proceeded  to  settle  the  destination  of 
the  different  missionaries.  Eighteen,  including  all  the 
ministers  and  married  men,  chose  Tahiti.  Ten — Bowell, 
Buchanan,  Cooper,  Harper,  Kelso,  Nobbs,  Shelley,  Veeson, 
Wilkinson,  and  Gaulton — elected  to  go  to  Tongatabu.  Harris 
and  Crook  chose  the  Marquesas  Islands.  On  Saturday 
morning,  March  4,  Tahiti  was  sighted,  but  was  not  reached 
in  time  to  land  that  day  ;  so  the  Duff  stood  off  and  on 
all  the  night. 

March  5,  1797,  is  a  day  that  must  ever  stand  at  the  head 
of  the  great  dates  of  the  London  Missionary  Society.  It 
was  a  Sunday,  and  then,  for  the  first  time,  those  sent  to 
begin,  on  behalf  of  the  Society,  the  glorious  work  of 
preaching  Christianity  to  the  heathen  came  into  direct 
contact  with  the  human  beings  they  sought  to  bless.  The 
men  and  women  who  gazed  that  day  with  such  intense 
eagerness  into  the  savage  and  debased  faces  of  the  degraded 
Tahitians  were  the  vanguard  of  that  noble  army  who  have 
since  gone  to  so  many  of  the  darkest  and  most  desperate 
parts  of  the  globe,  carrying  everywhere  the  healthful  healing 
influence  of  faithful  Christian  lives,  and  proclaiming  with 
the  noblest  self-renunciation  the  good  tidings  of  salvation, 
the  one  efficient  cure  for  the  savagery  of  the  human  heart 
and  life — a  crucified  and  risen  Redeemer. 

We  give  the  story  of  that  day  in  the  language  of  the 
official  description  of  the  voyage : — 

'  The  morning  was  pleasant,  and  with  a  gentle  breeze 
we  had  by  seven  o'clock  got  abreast  of  the  district  of 
Atahooroo,  whence  we  saw  several  canoes  putting  off  and 
paddling  towards  us  with  great  speed  ;  at  the  same  time  it 
fell  calm,  which  being  in  their  favour,  we  soon  counted 
seventy-four  canoes  around  us,  many  of  them  double  ones, 
containing  about  twenty  persons  each.  Being  so  numerous, 
we  endeavoured  to  keep  them  from  crowding  on  board  ; 
but  in  spite  of  all  our  efforts  to  prevent  it,  there  were  soon 
not  less  than  one  hundred  of  them  dancing  and  capering 


THE  DUFF  REACHES   TAHITI  135 

like  frantic  persons  about  our  decks,  crying,  "  Tayo  !  tayo  !  ^ " 
and  a  (t\\  broken  sentences  of  English  were  often  repeated. 
They  had  no  weapons  of  any  kind  among  them  ;  however, 
to  keep  them  in  awe,  some  of  the  great  guns  were  ordered 
to  be  hoisted  out  of  the  hold,  whilst  they,  as  free  from 
the  apprehension  as  the  intention  of  mischief,  cheerfully 
assisted  to  put  them  on  their  carriages.  When  the  first 
ceremonies  were  over,  we  began  to  view  our  new  friends 
with  an  eye  of  inquiry :  their  wild,  disorderly  behaviour, 
strong  smell  of  the  cocoa-nut  oil;,  together  with  the  tricks 
of  the  arreoies^  lessened  the  favourable  opinion  we  had 
formed  of  them  ;  neither  could  we  see  aught  of  that  ele- 
gance and  beauty  in  their  women  for  which  they  have  been 
so  greatly  celebrated.  This  at  first  seemed  to  depreciate 
them  in  the  estimation  of  our  brethren  ;  but  the  cheerful- 
ness, good  nature,  and  generosity  of  these  kind  people  soon 
removed  the  momentary  prejudices.  One  very  old  man, 
Manne  Manne^,  who  called  himself  a  priest  of  the  Eatooa^, 
was  very  importunate  to  be  tayo  with  the  captain  ;  others, 
pretending  to  be  chiefs,  singled  out  such  as  had  the 
appearance  of  officers  for  their  tayos ;  but  as  they  neither 
exercised  authority  over  the  unruly,  nor  bore  the  smallest 
mark  of  distinction,  we  thought  proper  to  decline  their 
proposals  till  we  knew  them,  and  the  nature  of  the  engage- 
ment better.  At  this  they  seemed  astonished,  but  still 
more  when  they  saw  our  indifference  about  the  hogs,  fowls, 
and  fruit,  which  they  had  brought  in  abundance.  We 
endeavoured  to  make  them  understand,  but  I  think  in 
vain,  that  this  was  the  day  of  the  Eatooa,  and  that  in  it 
we  durst  not  trade  :  but  their  women  repulsed,  occasioned 
greater  wonder.  They  continued  to  go  about  the  decks 
till  the  transports  of  their  joy  gradually  subsided,  when 
many  of  them  left  us  of  their  own  accord,  and  others  were 

•  The  word  taio  means  '  friend,'  and  the  custom  constituted  the  visitor 
selected  for  this  purpose  the  special  friend  and  placed  him  under  the  protection 
of  the  native  who  chose  him.  This,  of  course,  led  to  an  exchange  of  presents. 
The  natives,  naturally,  found  this  transaction  very  greatly  to  their  advantage. 

'  The  word  atiia  (eatooa)  means  *  God,  the  general  name  for  a  deity.' 


136  THE  MISSION  TO    TAHITI 

driven  away  by  the  old  man,  and  one  named  Mauroa,  who 
now  exercised  a  little  authority.  Those  who  remained 
were  chiefly  arreoies  from  Ulietea  \  in  number  about  forty  ; 
and  being  brought  to  order,  the  brethren  proposed  having 
divine  service  upon  the  quarter-deck.  Mr.  Cover  officiated  ; 
he  perhaps  was  the  first  that  ever  mentioned  with  rever- 
ence the  Saviour's  name  to  these  poor  heathens.  Such 
hymns  were  selected  as  had  the  most  harmonious  tunes  ; 
first,  "  O'er  the  gloomy  hills  of  darkness";  then,  "  Blow  ye 
the  trumpet,  blow";  and  at  the  conclusion,  "  Praise  God 
from  whom  all  blessings  flow."  The  text  was  from  the  first 
epistle  general  of  John,  chap,  iii.ver.  23,  "  God  is  love."  The 
whole  service  lasted  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  During 
sermon  and  prayer  the  natives  were  quiet  and  thoughtful ; 
but  when  the  singing  struck  up  they  seemed  charmed  and 
filled  with  amazement ;  sometimes  they  would  talk  and 
laugh,  but  a  nod  of  the  head  brought  them  to  order.  Upon 
the  whole,  their  unweariedness  and  quietness  were  astonish- 
ing ;  and,  indeed,  all  who  heard  observed  a  peculiar  solemnity 
and  excellence  in  Mr.  Cover's  address  on  that  day.' 

The  political  condition  of  Tahiti  may  be  briefly  sum- 
marized. The  chief  who  had  been  king  at  the  time  of 
Captain  Cook's  visit,  a  magnificent  specimen  of  the 
Tahitian  race  physically,  was  now  an  old  man,  and  had 
resigned  the  sovereignty  to  his  son,  Otu^,  he  himself  taking 
the  name  of  Pomare.  About  two  years  before  the  arrival 
of  the  Duff  he  had  succeeded  in  conquering  the  whole 
island.  The  neighbouring  islet  of  Moorea,  or,  as  it  is 
generally  called  in  the  records,  Eimeo,  had  also  submitted 
to  his  sway.  This  state  of  affairs,  when  they  had  once 
secured  the  friendship  of  Pomare,  was  much  more  favour- 
able for  the  missionary  enterprise  than  it  would  have  been 
several  years  earlier  when  Tahiti  was  portioned  out  among 
several  rival  and  independent  chieftains. 

The  outward  scenes  of  beauty  which  met  their  delighted 

*  The  areois  were  members  of  a  society  of  which  much  will  be  heard  in  the 
course  of  this  history  :  Ulitea  was  one  of  the  early  forms  of  the  name  Raiatea. 

*  More  correctly  Tu,  the  O  being,  as  in  O  taheite,  a  prefix. 


BEAUTY  OF  TAHITI  137 

gaze  may  be  imagined  from  the  description  given  by  Ellis ^ 
when  he  saw  them  for  the  first  time : — 

'  The  sea  had  been  calm,  the  morning  fair,  the  sky  was 
without  a  cloud,  and  the  lightness  of  the  breeze  had 
afforded  us  leisure  for  gazing  upon  the  varied,  picturesque 
and  beautiful  scenery  of  this  most  enchanting  island.  We 
had  beheld  successively,  as  we  slowly  sailed  along  its  shore, 
all  the  diversity  of  hill  and  valley,  broken  or  stupendous 
mountains,  and  rocky  precipices,  clothed  with  every  variety 
of  verdure,  from  the  moss  of  the  jutting  promontories  on 
the  shore,  to  the  deep  and  rich  foliage  of  the  bread-fruit 
tree,  the  Oriental  luxuriance  of  the  tropical  pandanus,  or 
the  waving  plumes  of  the  lofty  and  graceful  cocoa-nut 
grove.  The  scene  was  enlivened  by  the  waterfall  on  the 
m.ountain's  side,  the  cataract  that  chafed  along  its  rocky 
bed  in  the  recesses  of  the  ravine,  or  the  stream  that  slowly 
wound  its  way  through  the  fertile  and  cultivated  valleys, 
and  the  whole  was  surrounded  by  the  white-crested  waters 
of  the  Pacific,  rolling  their  waves  of  foam  in  splendid  majesty 
upon  the  coral  reefs,  or  dashing  in  spray  against  its  broken 
shore.' 

To  the  inhabitants  of  Tahiti  white  men  were  by  no 
means  strangers.  The  natives  had  begun  to  appreciate 
the  value  of  the  articles  the  great  ships  brought,  and  they 
were  now  to  learn  that  such  men  could  come  to  visit  them 
without  desiring  to  trade,  or  to  gratify  brutal  lust.  Several 
circumstances  helped  to  make  the  landing  at  Tahiti  pro- 
pitious. Two  Swedes  were  resident  at  the  time,  Andrew 
Lind  and  Peter  Haggerstein.  The  first  of  these  had 
belonged  to  the  shipwrecked  crew  of  the  Matilda,  and 
had  lived  on  the  island  since  March  6,  1792.  The  other 
had  been  left  by  Captain  New,  of  the  Daedalus.  These 
men  gave  the  missionaries  valuable  information  about  the 
island  and  its  inhabitants,  and  also  acted  as  interpreters  for 
them.  But  at  a  later  date  the  missionaries  had  reason  to 
doubt  whether  these  men  had  given  the  natives  clearly 
to  understand  the  main  purpose  of  their  coming.    At  Point 

'  Polynesian  Researches,  2nd  edition,  1832,  vol.  i.  p.  14. 


138  THE  MISSION    TO   TAHITI 

Venus,  on  Matavai  Bay,  there  was  standing  a  large  building 
called  by  the  natives  the  British  House.  Pomare  had  built 
it  for  Captain  Bligh,  who  had  spoken  of  returning  to 
Tahiti  to  live.  It  was  an  oblong  structure,  one  hundred 
and  eight  feet  long,  forty-eight  wide,  and  eighteen  high, 
thatched  with  palm  leaf  On  the  afternoon  of  Monday, 
March  6,  Captain  Wilson,  the  Swedes,  Cover,  Henry,  and 
a  few  more  of  the  missionaries  landed  to  inspect  this  house, 
and  found  that  it  could  easily  be  rendered  habitable  for 
the  whole  company.  The  formal  visit  to  take  possession 
of  the  house  was  made  the  next  day,  Tuesday,  March  7. 
Huamannemanne,  the  priest  of  Eimeo,  a  man  of  consider- 
able influence,  had  become  the  ^aio  or  friend  of  Captain 
Wilson,  and  took  a  prominent  part  in  all  that  was  done. 

'  The  rain  beginning  again  as  violent  as  before,  prevented 
the  missionaries  landing  till  near  eleven  in  the  forenoon  ; 
when  the  captain,  Mr.  Jefferson  (president),  with  a  few 
more  of  the  missionaries,  went  on  shore,  accompanied  by 
Manne  Manne  and  Peter.  The  natives  had  assembled 
upon  the  beach  to  the  number  of  four  or  five  hundred,  and 
as  the  boat  approached  some  ran  into  the  water,  and  laying 
hold  of  her  hauled  her  aground  ;  then  took  the  captain 
and  missionaries  on  their  backs,  and  carried  them  dry  on 
shore.  They  were  received  by  the  young  king  (Otoo)  and 
his  wife  Tetua,  both  carried  on  men's  shoulders  ;  each  took 
the  captain  by  the  hand,  and  in  dumb  silence  surveyed 
him  attentively,  looking  in  his  face  and  minutely  examining 
every  part  of  his  dress  :  they  beheld  the  brethren  also  with 
much  the  same  curiosity.  The  queen  opened  Mr.  Cover's 
shirt  at  the  breast  and  sleeves,  and  seemed  astonished  at 
so  clear  a  sight  of  the  blue  veins.  That  this  should  be  the 
case  now,  after  so  many  visits  from  Europeans,  may  surprise 
some ;  but  let  such  consider,  that  though  the  oldest  and 
the  middle-aged  have  been  fully  gratified  in  these  respects, 
the  young  ones  have  as  yet  seen  very  little ;  for  there  could 
be  but  small  difference  between  themselves  and  the  dark 
complexions  of  the  naked  shipwrecked  sailors  who  had 
lately  taken  refuge  amongst  them. 


MISSION  HOUSE  FINISHED  139 

'The  captain  now  informed  the  king,  through  Peter  as 
interpreter,  that  our  only  inducement  for  leaving  Pretane 
to  come  and  visit  them  was  to  do  them  good,  by  instructing 
them  in  the  best  and  most  useful  things ;  and  for  this  end, 
some  good  men  of  our  number  intended  to  settle  among 
them  ;  requiring,  on  their  part,  the  free  gift  of  a  piece  of 
land  sufficiently  stocked  with  bread-fruit  and  cocoa-nut 
trees,  and  so  large  as  to  contain  a  garden  and  admit  of 
houses  being  built  upon  it ;  that  this  land  should  be  their 
own  ;  that  they  would  not,  on  any  account,  intermeddle  in 
their  wars,  nor  employ  their  arms  but  for  self-defence  ;  and 
at  all  times  should  live  free  and  unmolested  among  them : 
to  which  if  he  consented,  they  would  stay  on  the  island  ;  if 
not,  they  would  go  elsewhere.  Much  pains  were  taken  to 
make  this  plain  ;  but  as  Otoo  appears  to  be  a  vacant-looking 
person,  I  doubt  whether  he  understood  the  half  of  it,  though 
he  signified  the  large  house  was  our  own^  and  we  might 
take  what  land  we  pleased. 

'  After  dinner  Otoo  and  his  wife  came  ofif,  each  in  a  small 
canoe,  with  only  one  man  paddling :  whilst  they  went 
several  times  round  the  ship,  the  queen  was  frequently 
baling  her  canoe  with  a  cocoa-nut  shell.  This  may  help  to 
form  an  idea  of  what  a  queen  is  in  Otaheite.  They  would 
not  venture  on  board,  because  wheresoever  they  come  is 
deemed  sacred,  none  daring  to  enter  there  afterwards 
except  their  proper  domestics. 

'  He  appears  tall  and  well  made,  about  seventeen ;  his 
queen,  handsome  and  finely  proportioned,  about  the  same 
age,  and  always  carried  about,  on  shore,  on  men's  shoulders. 
The  king  appears  thoughtful,  speaks  little,  but  surveys 
things  with  attention.  The  missionaries  suppose  some- 
thing majestic  in  his  appearance,  but  the  captain  thought 
him  stupid,  and  to  discover  little  capacity.' 

On  March  8  the  work  of  rendering  the  big  house 
habitable  was  begun.  This  was  an  easy  task,  as  the 
missionary  band  contained  so  many  handicraftsmen,  and 
on  March  11  the  women  and  children  landed.  In  the 
afternoon   of   the   next  day,   Pomarc  and   his   queen   Idia 


I40  THE  MISSION    TO   TAHITI. 

paid  his  first  visit  to  the  ship.  They  found  him  '  a  picture 
of  good  nature,  very  different  from  the  morose  figure  which 
represents  him  in  some  editions  of  Cook's  Voyages.  When 
seated  in  the  cabin  he  expressed  his  regard  for  the  EngHsh, 
and  called  King  George  his  friend.'  When  informed  of 
the  object  of  the  mission,  he  at  once  promised  to  give 
them  the  whole  district  of  Matavai.  This  land  was  formally 
ceded  on  March  i6,  and  has  formed  the  subject  of  a  well- 
known  picture  often  engraved. 

The  main  body  having  now  been  domiciled  at  Tahiti, 
it  was  time  to  attend  to  the  settlement  of  the  others. 
After  a  short  trip  to  Eimeo,  on  March  26,  the  Duff  made 
sail  for  the  Friendly  Islands.  This  group  was  so  named 
by  Captain  Cook  because  he  thought  the  natives  exhibited 
kindlier  feelings  towards  him  than  those  exhibited  in  many 
parts  of  the  Pacific.  He  did  not  know  that  at  the  very 
time  he  was  thus  misreading  their  nature  and  actions,  they 
were  plotting  to  destroy  him  and  his  crew,  and  to  capture 
the  ship.  The  group  lies  about  1,200  miles  north-west  of 
Tahiti,  and  on  Monday,  April  to,  the  Duff  reached  the 
harbour  of  Tongatabu.  They  found  upon  the  island  two 
Europeans,  an  English  sailor  named  Ambler  and  an  Irish- 
man named  Connelly.  Though  '  in  their  countenance,  one 
of  them  especially,  there  was  so  much  of  the  villain  marked 
that  in  England  a  well-disposed  person  would  shun  them,' 
the  missionaries  were  glad  to  avail  themselves  of  their 
services  as  interpreters.  After  interviews  with  several  of 
the  chiefs,  finally  the  missionaries  decided  to  accept  the 
protection  of  Fenou,  the  most  powerful  chief  on  the  island, 
and  settled  down  at  Aheefo.  On  April  15  the  Duff 
departed  for  the  Marquesas.  This  group  lies  away  to  the 
north-west  of  Tahiti^,  and  was  not  reached  until  June  5. 
Here  the  first  sign  of  weakness  on  the  part  of  a  missionary 
appeared.  Harris,  who  had  from  the  first  announced  his 
intention  of  settling  in  this  group^  even  though  he  went 
there  alone,  failed  at  the  critical  moment.  Crook,  his 
younger  companion,  showed  a  much  nobler  spirit,  and  even 
when  Harris   refused    to  stay,  remained  unshaken   in  his 


s 

"   'f- 

C-^ 

!;::; 

?   r. 

•>4 

c  -i. 

« 

>   P 

•i: 

Sc^ 

^"■~ 

r-bf 

^i 

H  -=  t^ 

•2     .=  —  '-5 


T. 
■J) 

Ui 


s  ='-/■- 


^     —  2 


•*      5-  P 


:5  C  Z 


THE  EARLY  JOURNALS  141 

purpose.  He  was  taken  under  the  protection  of  a  chief 
named  Tenae,  and  on  June  26  '  we  bade  him  an  affectionate 
farewell,  and  parted.  His  manly  behaviour  at  this  season 
did  him  great  credit  ;  the  tears  glistened  in  his  eyes,  but 
none  fell  ;  nor  did  he  betray  the  least  sign  of  fear  to  enter 
upon  his  work  alone.* 

On  July  6  the  Duff  anchored  once  again  in  Matavai  Bay. 
Events  had  passed  quietly  during  Captain  Wilson's  absence, 
and  the  missionaries  had  begun  to  learn  more  accurately 
what  heathenism  meant  in  Tahiti.  They  kept  a  journal, 
and  a  few  extracts  from  this  will  enable  us  to  picture  their 
life  from  day  to  day  : — 

*  April  8. — One  of  the  arreoies,  the  tayo  of  brother 
Henry,  came  to  us  with  his  wife :  they  were  taking 
their  leave  of  us  in  order,  during  their  absence,  to 
destroy  the  infant  soon  to  be  born,  according  to  the 
ordinance  of  that  diabolical  society.  We  thought  this 
a  proper  opportunity  to  remonstrate  with  them  against 
this  horrid  custom.  The  mother  felt  with  tenderness,  and 
appeared  willing  to  spare  the  infant ;  but  the  brutal  chief 
continued  obstinately  bent  on  his  purpose,  though  he 
acknowledged  it  a  bloody  act,  pleading  the  established 
custom,  his  loss  of  all  privileges,  and  the  dissolution  of 
the  society  if  this  should  become  general.  Our  brethren 
failed  not  to  open  to  him  the  wrath  of  God  against  all 
ungodliness  and  unrighteousness  of  men.  On  this  he 
walked  off  dejected,  but  not  apparently  determined  to 
desist  from  the  evil  or  danger  of  his  ways.' 

'April  9. — Pomarre  and  Iddeah  came  at  noon,  and 
going  into  the  married  brethren's  apartment,  found  them 
conversing  with  the  arreoies  on  the  evil  of  destroying 
infants.  Pomarre  and  Iddeah  had  for  some  time  ceased 
to  cohabit  ;  he  had  taken  another  wife,  and  she  one  of  her 
servants  ;  but  they  lived  in  the  same  state  of  friendship, 
and  with  no  loss  of  dignity.  The  brethren  endeavoured 
to  convince  her  of  the  dreadfulncss  of  murder,  in  a  mother 
especially.  They  promised  to  receive  the  child  imme- 
diately, and  it  should  be  no  trouble  to  her  ;  but  she  was 


142  THE  MISSION   TO   TAHITI 

sullen,  and  made  no  reply.  They  then  addressed  Pomarre, 
and  entreated  his  interference  in  suppressing  such  acts  of 
inhumanity ;  and  to  give  orders  that  no  more  human 
sacrifices  should  be  offered.  He  replied,  he  would  ;  said 
that  Captain  Cook  told  him  it  should  not  be  done  ;  but 
did  not  stay  long  enough  to  instruct  them.  One  of  the 
brethren  then  said  that  we  were  come  for  that  express 
purpose,  and  hoped  he  would  hearken  to  our  counsel ; 
pointing  out  all  the  danger  and  disadvantage  to  them- 
selves ;  and  warning  them,  that  if  they  despised  our 
instructions,  and  continued  in  their  wicked  practices,  we 
should  leave  them  and  go  to  another  island,  where  we 
could  hope  for  more  attention.  Pomarre  was  evidently 
affected  by  what  was  said,  and  especially  could  not  bear  the 
thought  of  our  leaving  him  ;  and  promised  he  would  use  all 
his  authority  to  put  an  end  to  these  practices.  He  indeed 
appears  of  a  teachable  disposition  and  open  to  conviction.' 

^ April  \'>). — Many  tmnatural  crimes,  which  we  dare  not 
name,  are  committed  daily  without  the  idea  of  shame  or 
guilt.  In  various  districts  of  the  island  there  are  men  who 
dress  as  women  ;  work  with  them  at  the  cloth  ;  are  confined 
to  the  same  provisions  and  rule  of  eating  and  dressing ; 
may  not  eat  with  the  men,  or  of  their  food,  but  have 
separate  plantations  for  their  peculiar  use.  It  is  remark- 
able that  with  all  these  horrid  vices  so  predominant,  in 
our  presence  they  never  show  an  attitude  or  commit  an 
act  unseemly ;  indeed,  they  profess  hardly  to  know  what 
we  are,  and  suspect  we  are  not  Englishmen,  or  like  any 
others  they  have  seen  who  have  ever  visited  their  island.' 

^  April  21. — Two  of  our  brethren  went  with  three  natives 
to  procure  more  wood.  We  went  up  the  valley  ;  it  is  about 
seven  miles  long  and  a  quarter  of  a  mile  broad,  with  very 
little  descent,  which  makes  the  river  meander  slowly 
through  it.  It  is  covered  with  trees,  except  a  few  verdant 
spots  from  whence  the  wood  is  cleared.  The  mountains 
on  both  sides  are  exceedingly  high  and  perpendicular, 
covered  with  shrubs  and  trees,  where  parrots,  parroquets, 
and  a  kind  of  grey  thrush  which  sings  delightfully,  build 


THE  DUFF  SAILS  FOR   CHINA  143 

their  nests.  The  natives  are  numerous  and  flourishing;  they 
see  the  sun  but  a  few  hours  in  the  day,  his  beams  being 
intercepted  by  the  mountains,  and  a  light  cool  breeze  blows 
downward  continually.  They  have  fine  plantations  of 
yava  and  cloth  trees  neatly  enclosed  ;  and  they  have  all 
the  other  edibles  in  vast  profusion,  but  are  so  indolent 
that  they  hardly  are  at  the  pains  to  gather  them.  They 
eat  when  they  are  hungry,  and  sleep  when  they  please. 
There  were  several  infected  with  that  horrible  disease 
Europeans  probably  have  left  them,  and  some  with  their 
limbs  ready  to  drop  off.' 

'  June  24. — Went  to  Oparre  in  our  boat  for  wood  ;  hos- 
pitably entertained  ;  visited  the  morai,  where  the  great 
god  Ooroo  resides ;  represented  by  an  ugly  piece  of 
wood  ;  saw  there  several  altars  and  skulls  of  men  who  had 
been  sacrificed.  One  of  the  altars  was  forty-five  feet  long, 
supported  on  pillars  of  the  bread-fruit  tree  about  seven 
feet  high ;  the  other  about  twelve  feet  square,  and  on  the 
top  an  arched  shed  like  the  tilt  of  a  waggon  ;  here  the 
wooden  god  was  laid.  One  skull  we  observed  split  across, 
and  in  the  midst  of  the  morai  a  salt  pool  with  a  young 
turtle. — Oh  !  when  shall  all  these  horrid  scenes  be  closed 
and  Christ  alone  be  exalted  ?  ' 

Captain  Wilson  on  his  return  from  Tongatabu  and  the 
Marquesas,  having  landed  Harris,  at  once  arranged  to  put 
the  cargo  on  shore,  and  to  divide  the  iron  and  steel  goods 
between  Tahiti  and  Tongatabu.  Four  missionaries,  with 
Jefferson  as  secretary,  two  representing  Tahiti  and  two 
Tongatabu,  settled  the  division.  As  this  was  necessarily 
a  long  operation,  the  captain  agreed  to  stay  till  August, 
and  meanwhile  his  nephew,  with  Peter  the  Swede,  made 
a  circuit  of  the  island.  Starting  on  July  11  they  returned 
on  July  20.  The  chief  result  of  this  expedition  was  to 
prove  that  the  pojuilation  of  the  island  had  been  greatly 
over-estimated.  They  fixed  it  at  about  16. coo;  Captain 
Cook  had  believed  it  to  be  200,000 ! 

On  August  4  the  Duff  set  sail  on  her  homeward  voyage 
via  Tongatabu   and   China.     Out  of  the   whole   cc)m[)any 


T44  THE  MISSION  TO   TAHITI 

only  one  heart  seems  to  have  quite  failed  at  this  early- 
stage.  Gillham,  the  surgeon,  for  no  reason  that  is  stated, 
resolved  to  return  to  England.  The  harbour  at  Tongatabu 
was  reached  on  August  17.  The  missionaries  were  all 
safe,  and  had  separated  into  groups  so  as  to  live  near 
different  chiefs.  Trouble  had  been  caused  by  the  wicked 
actions  of  the  three  Europeans  resident  on  the  island. 
But  none  of  the  missionaries  were  discouraged,  except 
Nobbs,  who,  on  account  of  his  health,  relinquished  the  work 
and  returned  to  England.  His  name  then  disappears  with 
that  of  Gillham  from  the  annals  of  the  Society. 

On  September  7  the  Duff  sailed  from  Tongatabu,  having 
occupied  six  months  in  settling  the  different  parties  of 
missionaries.  After  a  dangerous  passage,  in  the  course 
of  which  she  once  struck  upon  a  reef,  fortunately  without 
causing  serious  damage,  she  reached  Macao  on  Novem- 
ber 21.  By  December  31  the  captain  had  succeeded  in 
getting  his  cargo,  and  sailed  for  old  England,  casting 
anchor  in  the  Thames  on  July  11,  1798. 

Thus  ended  one  of  the  most  remarkable  voyages  in  the 
history  of  England.  It  has  not  excited  the  romantic 
interest  of  such  enterprises  as  Drake's  voyage  round  the 
World.  It  does  not  appeal  to  those  fighting  instincts 
in  our  nature  which  are  stirred  by  the  achievements  of 
men  like  Sir  Richard  Grenville,  Admiral  Blake,  or 
Lord  Nelson.  But  the  man  who  believes  in  God's  over- 
ruling providence,  who  holds  that  the  chief  need  of  the 
world  is  the  fulfilment  of  Christ's  last  great  command, 
'  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every 
creature,'  places  this  first  voyage  of  the  Duff  in  the  front 
rank  of  England's  achievements  for  the  world.  The  bless- 
ing which  it  has  conferred  upon  Polynesia  is  beyond  all 
power  of  accurate  estimate,  and  as  the  first  achievement 
of  one  of  the  greatest  of  modern  missionary  societies  it 
will  ever  hold  a  unique  position.  How  those  who  planned 
it,  those  who  equipped  it,  those  who  achieved  it,  viewed 
the  work  done  may  be  seen  from  the  words  with  which 
Captain  Wilson  closes  his  official  record  : — 


THE  SUCCESSFUL   COMMENCEMENT  145 

*  The  way  into  the  southern  ocean  is  now  open,  and  the 
facilities  for  enlarging  the  missionary  labours  greatly  in- 
creased. The  settlements  formed  will  every  day  continue 
to  widen  their  circle  of  influence  and  usefulness  ;  and  new 
and  vast  countries  around  them,  equally  accessible,  afford 
an  inexhaustible  field  for  the  most  vigorous  of  Christian 
zeal.  The  more  all  circumstances  are  weighed,  the  more 
it  must  appear  that  this  hath  God  done ;  and  can  we  per- 
ceive that  it  is  His  work,  and  not  at  least  confess  our 
obligation  to  further  these  efforts  to  the  utmost  of  our 
power?  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  every  objection  to  this 
blessed  undertaking  will  be  now  removed  ;  that  the  cau- 
tious will  confess  themselves  satisfied,  and  demonstrate 
their  approbation  by  a  more  liberal  assistance,  because  of 
past  delay;  that  the  prejudiced  will  nobly  lay  aside  their 
opposition,  and  redeem  unfavourable  suggestions  by  imme- 
diate and  generous  acknowledgements  that  they  knew  us 
not ;  and  that  a  mission  to  the  heathen,  planned  with 
much  deliberation,  investigation,  and  zeal,  and  executed 
with  eminent  skill,  perseverance^,  and  success,  bears  a  stamp 
of  divine  benediction  upon  it,  which  ought  to  commend 
it  to  every  man's  conscience  in  the  sight  of  God.  How 
much  thankfulness,  delight,  and  satisfaction,  it  must  pro- 
duce in  the  hearts  of  those  who  have  been  most  active 
in  the  service,  and  such  eminent  benefactors  to  mankind, 
I  need  not  say  :  their  work  itself  is  their  first  and  highest 
reward.' 

[Authorities. — Original  Journals  and  Letters;  Annual  Reports;  MSS.  in 
the  possession  of  Rev.  H.  R.  Ilaweis:  Journal  kept  by  Dr.  Haweis  on  the  Duff 
from  London  to  Portsmouth,  1796  ;  A  Missionary  Voyage  to  the  Southern 
Pacific  Oceaji,  Performed  tn  the  years  1796,  1797,  1798,  in  the  Ship  Duff, 
Quarto,  London,  1799  ;  Evangelical  Magazine  for  1795  and  1796  ;  Memoirs  of 
Captain  James  Wilson,  by  John  Griffin.] 


I. 


CHAPTER    IV 

'  THE   NIGHT   OF   TOIL  ' 

As  the  Duff  faded  from  sight  on  August  4,  1797,  the 
little  company  at  Matavai  might  well  feel  that  they  were 
now  embarked  upon  a  work  the  issue  of  which  none  could 
foresee.  Already  they  had  sufficient  experience  of  savage 
life  to  realize  many  causes  of  anxiety  and  many  immediate 
and  pressing  difficulties.  They  did  not  forget  to  lift  up 
their  hearts  to  God  in  fervent  prayer  for  the  vessel's  safe 
voyage  home,  and  then  their  journal^  tells  us  : — 

'  We  also  gave  ourselves,  in  a  more  particular  manner,  to 
the  Lord,  to  aid  and  uphold  us  in  our  important  under- 
taking, praying  that  He  may  grant  us  such  qualifications 
as  shall  enable  us  to  act  with  consistency  before  the  poor 
benighted  heathen  ;  and  that  many  may,  through  our 
instrumentality,  be  translated  from  the  power  of  darkness 
into  the  kingdom  of  His  dear  Son  Jesus  Christ.  We  are 
now  situated  in  one  of  the  most  delightful  countries  in  the 
world  ;  here  the  cares  and  anxieties,  which  possess  the  poor 
man's  breast  with  respect  to  the  maintenance  of  his  family, 
require  not  a  thought ;  but  still  we  have  our  troubles  and 
anxieties  when  we  consider  our  critical  position,  upon  a 
small  island,  many  thousands  of  miles  distant  from  our 
native  country,  and  surrounded  by  an  uncivilized  people.' 

The  novelty  had  worn  off;  they  were  now  superficially 

^  The  quotations  in  this  chapter,  except  where  otherwise  indicated,  are  all 
from  the  '  Otaheitean  Journals,'  printed  in  Transactions  of  the  Missionary 
Society^  vols,  i-iii.  1803-1 8 13. 

.1 


TAHITI  IN  17D7  147 

familiar  with  their  scene  of  labour  and  the  people  they 
were  striving  to  bless  ;  the  first  intensity  of  their  zeal,  the 
first  fervour  of  their  nn'ssionary  enthusiasm,  had  died  away, 
and  they  were  face  to  face  with  the  daily  burden  and  the 
daily  strain  of  humdrum  duty — the  severest  test  to  which 
human  nature  and  religious  experience  can  be  exposed. 
They  were  soon  to  find  how  great  was  the  gulf  between 
them  and  the  natives,  until  they  could  construct  the  bridge 
by  mastering  the  language.  This  initial  step,  contrary  to 
all  their  anticipations,  was  to  prove  the  hard  toil  of  many 
years.  They  were  to  discover  among  their  own  number 
not  a  few  painful  examples  of  the  weakness  of  human 
nature.  They  were  to  perceive  deeper  and  deeper  abysses 
of  degradation  in  the  debased  creatures  around  them,  until 
they  came  at  last  to  the  conclusion  that  the  earthly 
paradise  of  Tahiti — so  rich  in  natural  beauty  of  mountain 
and  valley,  of  rivulet  and  cascade,  of  sea  and  sky,  where 
Nature  was  such  a  loving  and  constant  mother  as  to  take 
away  all  motive  and  all  need  for  toil — was  the  very  seat  of 
Satan,  the  centre  and  the  home  of  the  foulest  vices  that 
can  degrade  humanity.  They  were  to  prove  that  though 
many  had  been  called  to  the  mission,  few  had  been  chosen ; 
they  were  to  sow  in  tears  plentifully;  they  were  to  pass 
through  the  long  and  dark  night  of  watching ;  but  they 
were  also  gloriously  to  prove  that  victory  comes  at  last  to 
the  valiant  who  endure,  and  three  out  of  the  thirty  lived 
to  witness  the  triumph  of  the  Gospel. 

Few  stories  in  the  religious  history  of  the  world  are  so 
pathetic,  so  full  of  human  interest,  so  full  of  wise  suggestion 
regarding  right  and  wrong  methods  of  missionary  enter- 
prise as  that  told  in  the  Otaheitean  Journals  for  the  next 
twenty  years.  It  is  obvious  that  we  can  glean  only  a  few 
ears  from  this  great  harvest-field.  The  chief  actors  in  the 
drama  shall  depict  its  salient  movements  in  their  own  way. 
As  early  as  August  13,  1797.  Mr.  Jefferson,  the  Secretary  of 
the  little  community,  writes, '  The  more  I  see  of  the  customs, 
temper,  and  conduct  of  this  people,  the  more  I  am  con- 
firmed in  an  opinion  that  I  have  some  time  formed  ;  viz. 

L  2 


148  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

that  our  success  will  not  be  speedy :  the  Lord,  however, 
can  remove  all  obstacles,  but  we  are  not  to  expect  it  out  of 
the  ordinary  way.'  The  natives  became  more  and  more 
persistent  in  their  thieving  habits,  they  '  are  as  void  of 
gratitude  as  of  principle,'  and  the  only  matters  to  which 
they  gave  constant  and  consistent  attention  were  the 
gratification  of  monstrous  lust  and  the  celebration  of 
horrible  and  sanguinary  religious  rites. 

On  September  i,  1797,  Jefferson  and  Cock,  against  the 
will  of  their  colleagues,  removed  some  miles  to  the  east  of 
Matavai.  They  were  moved  to  do  this  by  the  friendliness 
of  a  chief  named  Vitua,  and  by  Jefferson's  declaration  '  that 
he  had  learnt  more  of  the  language  in  twelve  days  which 
he  had  spent  there  than  he  had  in  twelve  weeks  at  home.' 
Meanwhile  the  others  passed  their  time  in  completing  their 
house,  in  assemblies  for  religious  purposes  among  them- 
selves, and  in  holding  what  intercourse  they  could  with  the 
natives.  Two  subjects  especially  stirred  their  deepest 
feelings.  They  were  already  aware  of  the  existence  of  the 
organization  known  as  the  Areoi  Society.  The  marriage 
tie  was  a  bond  very  easily  loosened  in  Tahiti.  In  fact,  one 
of  the  first  lessons  the  missionaries  learned,  since  confirmed 
over  a  very  wide  field  of  experience,  was  that  most  savage 
peoples  have  neither  the  practice  nor  even  the  conception  of 
chastity.  The  wife  of  Pomare,  Idia,  in  many  respects  the 
most  powerful  woman  on  the  island,  was  at  this  time  living 
in  illicit  intercourse  with  a  man  of  lower  rank.  She  had, 
even  before  the  Duff  sailed,  murdered  an  infant  she  had 
borne,  because  she  was  a  member  of  the  Areoi  Society, 
and  though  it  was  no  disgrace  to  bear  such  children,  it  was 
a  disgrace  to  let  them  live.  This  being  the  practice  of  the 
wife  of  Pomare,  it  is  no  marvel  that  infanticide  of  this 
barbarous  kind  was  very  common  throughout  the  island. 
Large  numbers  of  men  and  women  belonged  to  this  in- 
famous Areoi  Society,  and  were  in  the  constant  habit  of 
thus  murdering  their  infants.  Against  this  horrid  custom 
the  missionaries  set  their  faces.  On  November  9,  10,  and  1 1 
they  discussed  their  attitude  towards  this  custom  at  great 


THE  AREOI  SOCIETY  149 

length,  and  finally  decided  that  it  was  their  duty  '  to 
inform  the  chiefs  of  the  object  of  our  mission,  and  point 
out  to  them  the  dreadful  consequences  of  murdering  their 
offspring  ;  and  should  any  of  the  Areoi  Society  be  pre- 
vailed on  to  save  their  children,  and  put  them  under  our 
care,  we  would  instruct  them  in  our  arts.'  One  sinister 
augury  for  the  future  was,  that  in  this  first  great  discussion 
on  the  attitude  of  the  community  towards  heathen  savagery, 
many  of  the  brethren  opposed  any  bold  and  decided  policy, 
and  toned  down  the  resolution  to  the  form  given  above. 

Another  question  to  which  they  directed  much  attention 
was,  what  should  be  done  in  case  of  an  attack  on  them 
by  the  natives.  This  was  decided  in  favour  of  the  view 
that  in  their  own  house  they  ought,  for  the  sake  of  the 
women  and  children,  to  defend  themselves  even  by  force. 

On  November  20,  one  of  their  number  raised  the  very 
difficult  practical  question,  Was  it  improper  for  a  mission- 
ary to  marry  a  native  woman  ?  After  full  discussion  they 
decided,  after  requesting  each  member  of  the  mission  to 
give  his  opinion,  '  That  to  marry  a  heathen  woman  was 
directly  contrary  to  the  Word  of  God,  and  resolved  in  the 
Lord's  strength  to  abide  as  they  were.' 

During  the  next  few  weeks  attempts  were  made  to 
acquaint  the  chiefs  with  the  decision  regarding  infanticide. 
Ignorance  of  the  language  rendered  this  attempt  fruitless. 
On  March  6,  179H,  a  date  of  ill  omen  to  the  mission,  great 
excitement  was  caused  by  the  appearance  of  a  vessel,  which 
proved  to  be  the  Nautilus,  belonging  to  Macao,  and  origin- 
ally bound  to  the  north-west  of  America  on  the  fur  trade, 
but,  driven  far  out  of  her  course  by  a  gale,  was  now  bound 
for  the  island  of  Masuefero,  near  Juan  Fernandez,  off  the 
coast  of  South  America,  in  search  of  seal-skins.  This  was 
the  first  vessel  they  had  seen  since  the  departure  of  the 
Duff.  The  ship  was  in  great  distress  for  want  of  provisions, 
and  was  destitute  of  a  cargo.  The  missionaries  exerted 
themselves  to  such  purpose  in  supplying  the  needs  of 
the  Nautilus  that  they  won  the  gratitude  of  captain  and 
supercargo,   and    on    March    10    the    Nautilus    sailed    for 


I50  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOH  ' 

Masuefero.  On  March  23  they  were  greatly  surprised 
to  see  her  once  again,  and  on  boarding  her  found  she  had 
suffered  severely  in  a  gale,  had  altered  her  plans,  and  was 
now  going  to  make  for  Sydney. 

Meanwhile,  because  during  the  first  stay  of  the  Nautilus 
the  missionaries  had  tried  to  prevent  the  captain  from 
supplying  him  with  arms  and  powder,  and  had  also 
exerted  their  influence  to  check  immorality,  Otu  had 
become  enraged  against  them.  Unaware  of  this,  on 
March  26  four  of  their  body,  Jefferson,  Main,  Broomhall, 
and  W.  Puckey,  went  to  Otu  at  the  request  of  the 
captain  to  demand  the  return  of  two  of  his  men  who 
had  deserted.  They  saw  Otu,  wlio  did  not  receive  them 
well,  and  on  their  way  to  Pomare  they  were  surrounded  by 
a  crowd  of  natives,  who  assaulted  them,  stripped  them 
naked,  and  so  maltreated  them,  that  on  the  arrival  of  some 
friendly  natives  they  'congratulated  each  other, and  acknow- 
ledged the  goodness  of  the  Lord  in  giving  them  their  lives 
for  a  prey  thus  far.'  When  they  reached  Pomare,  he  and 
Idia  expressed  the  greatest  concern  at  the  treatment  they 
had  received,  clothed  them  in  native  cloth,  and  enabled 
them  to  return  to  Matavai.  But  the  sailors  were  not 
given  up. 

The  news  of  what  had  happened  had  already  reached 
the  rest  of  the  mission  at  Matavai,  and  the  return  of  the 
sufferers  caused  the  greatest  excitement  in  the  community. 
The  testing  time  had  come,  and  unfortunately  many  were 
to  prove  unequal  to  the  strain.  On  March  27  'the  greatest 
part  of  the  brethren  assented,'  at  a  meeting  of  the  society, 
to  the  proposition,  '  That  from  the  recent  occurrence,  and 
present  appearance  of  things,  a  removal  of  the  society  off 
the  island  seemed  necessary.'  Cover,  one  of  the  ordained 
men,  was  the  moving  spirit  in  this  act  of  desertion,  and, 
with  W.  Puckey,  was  deputed  to  ask  Captain  Bishop's 
advice  and  consent  to  remove  them.  The  captain  expressed 
himself  in  favour  of  retreat  to  Port  Jackson,  and  at  a  meeting 
held  forthwith  this  question  was  put  to  each  member, 
'  Brother,  is  it  your  determination  to  abide  in  Otaheite,  or 


ELEVEN  MISSIONARIES  LEAVE   TAHITI       151 

remove  to  Port  Jackson?'  Cover,  Hassell,  Heniy^  Hodges 
(all  married),  Main,  Oakes,  J.  Puckey,  W.  Puckey,  and 
Smith,  decided  to  go  ;  Bicknell,  Harris,  Jefferson,  Lewis, 
and  Nott  to  remain.  Broomhall,  Clode,  and  Cock  asked 
to  be  allowed  another  day  to  decide,  and  Eyre  said  that, 
though  wdHing  to  stay,  he  left  his  wife  to  decide  the  ques- 
tion, since,  if  the  others  departed,  she  would  be  the  only 
white  woman  left  on  the  island.  Mrs.  Eyre,  though  deserted 
by  all  the  other  female  members  of  the  mission,  nobly 
resolved  to  stay,  thus  beginning,  on  the  part  of  missionaries' 
wives,  that  marvellous  record  of  self-sacrifice  and  faith- 
fulness and  whole-hearted  consecration  at  times  of  difficulty 
and  danger  in  which  the  story  of  the  century  is  so  rich. 
It  is  true  that  she  was  very  much  older  than  any  of  the 
other  wives,  and  she  was  also  a  very  bad  sailor.  Some  of 
those  who  left  did  not  scruple  to  say  that  she  remained 
behind  chiefly  on  account  of  these  two  things.  But  even 
making  full  allowance  for  these,  Mrs.  Eyre's  name  deserves 
a  high  place  upon  our  roll  of  fame.  Those  only  who 
have  been  placed  in  somewhat  similar  circumstances  can 
fully  appreciate  the  courage  and  faith  and  unselfishness 
which  she  displayed.  The  other  three  decided  to  go, 
but  at  the  last  moment  Broomhall,  having  asked  those 
who  remained  to  decide  for  him,  accepted  their  judgment, 
and  stayed  at  Tahiti. 

On  March  31  the  Nautilus  sailed,  and  thus,  one  year 
and  twenty-five  days  after  the  Duff  reached  Tahiti,  only 
seven  out  of  the  eighteen  who  had  chosen  that  island  as 
their  home  were  found  faithful  enough  to  the  work  to 
accept  the  risk  of  personal  danger  in  its  discharge.  Many 
causes  contributed  to  this  disastrous  result.  One  was  the 
imperfect  education  of  the  great  majority  ;  another  the  fear 
felt  by  the  married  missionaries  on  behalf  of  their  wives 
and  children  ;  another  the  fact  that  the  religious  life  of 
several  was  not  sufficiently  developed  to  stand  the  severe 
strain  of  attempting  to  live  as  Christians  on  Tahiti.  In 
the  brief  and  pathetic  letter  which  those  who  remained  sent 
to  the  Directors  at  home  they  touch  the  heart  of  the  episode, 


152  *  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOH  ' 

and  lay  the  finger  upon  the  weak  spot  in  those  whose 
courage  failed  at  the  moment  of  trial.  The  document 
deserves  a  permanent  place  in  the  Society's  history,  and 
we  quote  it  in  full : — 

'  From  the  Missionaries  on  the  Island  of  Otaheite,  or  King 
George's  Island,  in  the  great  South  Sea,  to  the  Directors 
of  the  Missionary  Society ;  who,  under  the  great 
Prince  of  all  Missionaries,  fbr  the  preaching  of  His 
Gospel  in  all  parts  of  the  world,  were  instrumental  in 
commissioning  us  to  go  forth  and  teach  the  heathens 
in  these  seas ;  grace,  mercy,  and  peace  from  God  the 
Father,  and  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  whom  be  glory 
for  ever.     Amen. 

'Dearly  beloved  Brethren, 

*  Time  and  circumstances  will  not  admit  us  at  this 
present  to  enter  upon  particulars.  The  change  that  has 
taken  place  in  our  situation,  by  the  sudden  resolution  of 
the  major  part  of  the  society  of  missionaries,  to  depart  from 
this  island  of  Otaheite,  for  Port  Jackson,  in  New  Holland, 
we  trust  will  nothing  hinder  that  work  which  first  induced 
us  to  offer  our  service  to  the  Directors  of  the  Missionary 
Society,  supported  us  under  the  heavy  trial  of  forsaking 
parents,  brothers,  sisters,  friends,  &c.,  &c.,  and  still  en- 
courages us  patiently  to  abide  the  will  of  God  concerning 
us  on  this  island.  We  can  only  assure  the  Directors  of  the 
Society,  our  confidence  is  the  strength  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  whose  aid  we  depend  upon,  and  whose  servants  we 
desire  to  manifest  ourselves  to  be.  We  also  humbly  request 
the  Directors  of  the  Missionary  Society  not  to  forget  us  either 
in  their  prayers,  or  revisiting  us,  if  any  favourable  opportunity 
for  so  doing  should  occur.  We  do  not  expect,  nor  solicit, 
that  the  Missionary  Society  should  put  themselves  to  any 
further  expense  on  our  account ;  but  if  the  Directors  should 
judge  it  prudent,  and  find  it  convenient,  to  send  out  a  few 
presents  for  those  who  shall  have  showed  themselves  most 
Iriendly  towards  us,  such  as  knives,  scissors,  a  few  axes 


OFFICIAL   LETTER,   MARCH  29,1798  153 

and  such  articles,  they  will  be  gratefully  received.  Experi- 
ence has  taught  us,  the  more  we  are  encumbered  about 
worldly  things  the  less  concern  we  have  for  the  conversion 
of  the  heathen  ;  and  the  more  we  are  detached  from  secular 
employments,  the  more,  we  trust,  our  minds  will  be  attached 
to  the  propagation  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Otaheite 
affords  food  and  raiment  suitable  to  its  climate,  and  suffi- 
cient to  answer  the  great  end  of  Providence,  in  granting  us 
these  blessings,  viz.  to  cover  our  nakedness,  and  to  sustain 
for  a  while  our  earthly  perishing  tabernacles,  and  having 
those  things,  we  hope  the  Lord  will  teach  us  to  be  content. 
We  think  it  needful  to  inform  the  Directors  of  the  Society 
that  it  appears  to  us  at  present  a  reinforcing  of  this  island 
with  a  body  of  missionaries,  consisting  of  men,  women,  and 
children,  and  furnished  after  the  manner  of  ourselves,  when 
we  quitted  our  native  country  in  the  ship  Duff,  would 
nothing  forward  the  work  of  God  on  Otaheite,  or  the 
adjacent  islands  ;  but,  if  four  or  six  Christian  men,  void  of 
worldly  encumbrances,  will  be  willing  to  hazard  their  lives 
for  the  sake  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  salvation  of 
the  heathen,  and  led  by  the  eternal  spirit,  forsake  all  and 
follow  us,  we  shall  glory,  if  spared,  to  give  them  the  right 
hand  of  Christian  brotherly  fellowship. 

'  We  conclude,  with  our  prayers  to  our  God,  and  your 
God,  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  your  Lord,  for  His  blessing 
upon  your  labours  for  spreading  abroad  the  savour  of  the 
grace  of  Christ  through  the  four  quarters  of  the  world. 

*  We  remain, 
'  Dearly  beloved  brethren, 
*  Your  brethren,  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
B.  BiCKNELL,  J.  Eyre, 

J.  Harris,  J.  Jefferson, 

T.  Lewis,  H.  Nott. 

'  Otaheite y  Matavai  District,  March  29,  1798.' 

To  the  above  letter  brother  Eyre  subjoined  the  following 
lines :  — 


154  *  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOH  ' 

'  From  John  Eyre,  to  the  Directors  of  the  Missionary 
Society  in  England. 

'Dear  Brethren, 

'  Having,  after  many  temptations  and  severe  con- 
flicts, given  myself  and  wife  up  to  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  to 
you  His  servants,  for  the  propagating  of  the  Gospel  among 
the  heathens  in  the  Society  Islands  ;  and  having,  in  a  solemn, 
public  manner  received  a  designation  from  you  for  the 
same :  I  now  solemnly  pray,  that  I  may  be  found  faithful 
to  the  Lord,  and  my  engagements  with  you.  After  hearing 
the  determination  of  the  brethren,  concerning  removing  for 
Botany  Bay,  I  laid  the  matter  open  before  my  wife,  with 
the  dangers  and  distresses  that  were  very  likely  to  befall  her 
continuance  here,  and  left  the  Lord  to  dispose  her  mind  to 
His  will.  I  now  join  with  her  in  giving  ourselves  up  to 
the  Lord,  hoping  we  shall  act  more  like  the  servants  of 
the  Lord  than  ever,  willing  to  bear  the  reproach  of  good 
and  bad  men,  for  my  present  conduct,  till  we  meet  at  the 
bar  of  Him  who  trieth  hearts  and  weigheth  actions. 

'John  Eyre.' 

The  party  who  sailed  in  the  Nautilus  carried  off  what 
they  considered  to  be  their  share  of  the  public  property. 
The  store-room,  containing  the  large  amount  of  property 
yet  remaining,  which  constantly  aroused  the  covetousness 
of  the  natives,  was  formally  made  over  to  Pomare,  and 
accepted  by  him.  All  the  arms  and  ammunition,  two 
pistols  excepted  which  were  left  unwittingly,  one  of  which 
was  afterwards  presented  to  the  king,  and  the  other  stolen 
by  a  native,  were  sent  on  board  the  Nautilus.  Those  who 
remained  were  resolved  to  cast  themselves  wholly  upon 
God,  and  they  found,  as  His  faithful  servants  ever  have 
found  in  the  season  of  trial  and  darkness  and  danger,  that 
whether  for  life  or  death.  He  is  a  present  help  in  time  of 
trouble. 

The  hearts  of  the  little  band  were  anxious  and  perturbed, 
the  natives  became  more  and  more  troublesome  through 
their  thieving  propensities,  yet  at  the  end  of  the  first  fort- 


JEFFERSON'S  JOURNALS  155 

night  they  wrote,  '  We  can  safely  say,  hitherto  the  Lord 
has  been  better  to  us  than  our  fears.'  On  April  t  8  Pomare 
came  to  them  and  said,  '  How  many  of  you  know  how  to 
make  war  ?  Brother  Nott  replied,  "  We  know  nothing  of 
war." '  After  Pomare  had  left  they  had  a  consultation,  and 
resolved  unanimously,  through  the  grace  of  God,  not  to 
intermeddle  with  arms  either  for  offence  or  defence. 

Pomare  had  taken  steps  to  punish  those  whose  assault 
upon  the  missionaries  had  led  to  such  disastrous  results, 
and  some  fifteen  natives  lost  their  lives  in  the  conflicts 
which  ensued.  This  action  upon  his  part  was  altogether 
contrary  to  the  wish  of  the  missionaries  themselves,  and  it 
initiated  a  series  of  tribal  conflicts  which  lasted  for  a  number 
of  years,  and  at  several  seasons  seemed  to  promise  a  speedy 
termination  to  all  mission  work.  But  the  best  picture  of 
life  in  Tahiti  at  this  time  can  be  gained  by  studying  atten- 
tively a  few  extracts  quoted  just  as  they  stand  in  the 
journal  v/ritten  from  day  to  day  by  the  Secretary,  Mr. 
Jefferson  : — 

'  Jicjie  22. — Received  a  visit  from  the  king  and  queen 
last  night,  after  nine  o'clock.  They  came  to  take  their 
leave  of  us,  prior  to  their  departure  for  Opare.  Otoo  and 
Tat6oa-noce  still  continue  their  regal  privileges  of  riding 
across  the  shoulders  of  their  attendants  ;  and,  however 
unseemly  the  custom  is,  and  uncommon  to  an  European,  yet 
it  must  be  acknowledged  they  sit  as  easy,  and  what  is 
termed  graceful,  as  any  expert  horseman  can  on  the  back 
of  a  horse  ;  and,  although  Otoo  and  Tatooa-noce  are  well- 
grown  persons,  yet  their  bearers  carry  them,  when  travelling, 
generally  at  a  trotting  pace.  The  young  king  continues 
friendly  to  us.  Yavva  continues  to  be  prepared  as  related 
by  Captain  Cook,  and  drank  to  excess  by  chiefs  and 
common  people.  The  effects  it  produces  are  visible,  in 
some,  from  the  head  to  the  soles  of  their  feet.  The  eyes 
of  the  great  yavva  drinkers  are  much  bloodshot,  sometimes 
very  sore ;  their  skin  covered  with  a  great  thick  scurf,  and 
the  soles  of  their  feet  chopt  or  cracked  ;  it  also  subjects 
some  of  them  to  strong  fits.     Notwithstanding  the  filthy 


156  *  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

manner  of  preparing,  its  nauseous  smell,  and  reputed  dis- 
agreeable taste,  it  is  as  much  admired  by  Otaheitean 
epicures,  as  the  finest  wines,  produced  in  Italy  or  France, 
are  by  the  most  refined  sensualist  in  England.' 

'  Sunday,  July  8. — No  interruption  through  the  day. 
Before  the  division  of  the  society,  the  natives  in  the 
neighbourhood  forbore  the  making  of  their  cloth  on  the 
Sabbath,  but  now  they  have  returned  to  their  custom,  and 
the  sound  of  the  cloth-beater  is  heard  near  to  us.  Edea 
has  not  visited  us  since  the  murder  of  her  infant ;  she  is 
quite  recovered,  though  she  has  not  been  delivered  above 
eight  or  nine  days.  The  man  who  cohabits  with  her,  the 
father  of  the  child  murdered,  breakfasted  with  brother  Eyre 
this  morning ;  an  opportunity  was  taken  of  informing  him 
anew  of  the  evil  of  the  custom  ;  all  he  could  say  in  justifica- 
tion of  the  action  was,  his  being  a  mannahowne^  or  mean 
man,  and  Edea  an  aree-vdheme,  or  chief  woman.' 

On  August  I,  1798,  the  hearts  of  the  missionary  com- 
munity were  deeply  grieved  by  the  receipt  of  a  letter  from 
Mr.  Lewis,  stating  that  it  was  now  his  fixed  determination 
to  marry  a  native  woman.  They  reasoned  with  him,  they 
recalled  to  his  recollection  that  he  himself  had  voted,  in 
previous  full  and  careful  consideration  of  this  very  question, 
that  any  one  acting  as  he  now  proposed  to  do  must  be 
excommunicated.  Finally,  after  having  employed  in  vain 
every  influence  they  could  exert  to  induce  him  to  pause, 
they  informed  him  that  they  were  unanimous  in  not  con- 
sidering him  a  member  of  the  Church.  Unaffected  by  these 
remonstrances,  Mr.  Lewis  went  to  reside  at  a  district  called 
Ahonu,  taking  the  native  woman,  about  whom  the  contro- 
versy with  his  brethren  had  arisen,  to  live  with  him  there 
as  his  wife.  Though  excluded  from  the  house  and  the 
fellowship  of  his  brethren,  he  continued  to  attend  the  public 
religious  services,  and  to  bring  this  native  with  him.  All 
friendly  relations  with  his  colleagues  had  thus  necessarily 
ceased,  but  they  let  him  know  ho\V  gladly  they  would 
welcome  him  back  upon  coming  to  a  better  mind  once 
again.     It  must  be  borne  in  mind  in  this  and  in  all  similar 


EXCOMMUNICATION  OF  MR.    LEWIS  157 

circumstances  that  the  woman  remained  heathen,  not  only 
ignorant  of  Christianity,  but  addicted  to  all  the  abominable 
practices  of  savage  life.  It  was  not  a  case  of  a  missionary 
marrying  a  native  convert,  but  of  a  Christian  man  uniting 
himself  to  a  heathen  woman,  and  that  on  an  island  where 
the  testimony  of  the  missionaries,  after  a  residence  of 
eighteen  months,  was  that  in  all  probability  not  one  single 
female  on  the  island  over  ten  or  twelve  years  of  age  had 
escaped  pollution. 

On  August  24,  1798,  a  little  more  than  a  year  after  the 
Duff  had  sailed  on  her  homeward  voyage,  two  whalers 
from  London,  the  Cornwall  and  the  Sally,  after  touching  at 
Port  Jackson,  called  at  Tahiti,  with  a  'welcome  packet  of 
letters  from  England,  and  with  a  quantity  of  magazines^ 
newspapers,  and  prints.'  This  was  the  first  mail  they  had 
received  since  leaving  England  two  years  before.  The 
vessels  stayed  only  two  days,  and  in  the  brief  letter  they 
were  enabled  to  send  to  the  Directors,  one  sentence  only  is 
noteworthy. 

'  Our  time  has  principally  been  engaged  in  labouring 
to  acquire  a  knowledge  of  the  language  of  the  country^ 
which  we  find  all  Europeans  who  ever  visited  Otaheite 
have  utterly  mistaken,  as  to  spelling,  pronunciation,  ease 
in  learning,  and  the  barrenness  of  it.  We  have  already 
joined  some  thousands  of  words,  and  we  believe  some 
thousands  yet  remain ;  a  knowledge  of  which  we  hope 
to  attain,  through  the  blessing  of  God.  We  endeavour 
to  speak  a  little  to  the  inhabitants,  as  occasion  offers,  on 
the  one  tJiing  needftd,  but  our  ignorance  of  the  language  will 
not  suffer  us  to  say  much.' 

The  whalers  also  brought  tidings  of  their  departed  com- 
rades. Messrs.  Cover  and  Henry  sent  a  letter,  giving  details 
of  their  doings,  but  complaining,  somewhat  hypcrcritically, 
it  must  be  confessed,  in  the  light  of  their  own  action,  of  the 
tone  of  the  letter  which  the  seven  had  sent  to  the  Directors. 
There  was  also  one  from  W.  Puckey,  in  which  he  makes 
these  significant  admissions,'  I  know  that  my  departure  did 
not   meet    with    general   approbation,'   and,   '  I   have  often 


158  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOH  ' 

thought  what  a  hurry  and  confusion  we  left  you  in,  and 
what  fear  possessed  us  :  which,  perhaps,  in  some  measure, 
might  be  unnecessary.' 

'  September  10. — The  king,  queen,  Pomere,  Edea,  Manne- 
manne,  are  to  the  westward,  anxiously  waiting  the  issue  of 
the  late  calamitous  visitation.  We  have  reason  to  believe 
Orepiah's  death  would  be  the  cause  of  great  secret  rejoicing 
to  Pomere,  Edea,  and  others,  who  seem  to  stand  in  much 
dread  from  the  close  union  subsisting  between  Otoo  and 
Orepiah  :  the  latter  being  the  uncle  of  the  former,  has  acted 
as  a  kind  of  guardian  to  him  during  his  youthful  days. 
Though  the  wheels  of  political  government  are  not  so  many 
in  this  as  in  our  native  island,  yet  they  are  more  in  number 
than  any  would  conceive  from  the  rude  and  barbarous  state 
the  nation  is  in.  They  have  their  plots  and  court  intrigues, 
their  parties  and  partisans,  as  well  here  as  in  England  ;  and 
they  are  as  important  in  their  way  as  in  the  most  refined 
court  of  Europe.' 

^  Su7iday,  September  16. — The  poor  heathen  around  us 
remarkably  still  through  the  day.  They  do  not  discover 
the  smallest  desire  to  know  aught  of  the  things  of  God  ; 
nor  have  they  any  curiosity  to  know  why  we  so  frequently 
meet  together,  to  read,  sing,  and  pray;  or  why  we  so  par- 
ticularly honour  ev^ery  seventh  day,  in  setting  it  apart  for 
the  worship  of  God,  and  refraining  from  labour  thereon. 
The  poor  Otaheiteans  are  deeply  prejudiced  in  favour  of 
their  idolatrous  worship,  though  they  do  not  scruple  fre- 
quently to  say,  their  gods  are  good  for  nothing.  Nor  are 
they  less  attached  to  their  manners  and  customs  in  civil 
life.  Notwithstanding  their  rude  uncultivated  state,  they 
seem  to  hold  themselves  as  civilized  a  people  as  any  beneath 
the  sun,  and  treat  the  arts  and  sciences,  customs,  and 
manners  of  Europeans  with  great  indifference  and  con- 
tempt.' 

'  November  5. — The  work  of  our  mission  we  keep  in  view, 
and  patiently  wait  for  the  time  of  labouring  in  this  part  of 
the  Lord's  vineyard.  None  know,  but  those  who  are  in 
similar  circumstances  with  ourselves,  what  it  is  to  live  in  the 


SLOIV  PROGRESS   OF  THE   WORK  159 

midst  of  professed  heathens  and  uncivilized  barbarians.  By 
our  own  experience  we  have  reason  to  believe  many  of  the 
true  children  of  God  in  our  native  country  formed  in  their 
minds  very  different  ideas  of  the  work  of  preaching  the 
Gospel  to  the  Otaheiteans,  to  what  they  would  were  they 
with  us  on  the  spot,  to  see  and  hear  what  we  have  seen  and 
heard.  The  language,  too,  which  many  thought  so  easy, 
and  to  be  acquired  in  a  few  months  at  most,  we  find 
exceeding  difficult.  Thanks  be  unto  God  we  are  in  His 
hands  as  clay  is  in  the  hands  of  a  potter,,  and  out  of  the 
mouths  of  babes  He  can  perfect  praise.' 

The  chief  Temare  or  Orepiah,  both  names  being  used, 
referred  to  in  the  first  of  these  extracts,  was  a  subordinate 
ruler  on  Tahiti,  who  sided  with  Otu  against  his  father, 
Pomare.  Thinking  that  some  gunpowder  which  he  had 
obtained  for  purposes  of  war  was  not  genuine,  in  experi- 
menting upon  it  the  whole  blew  up,  and  so  seriously  injured 
the  chief  that  he  died  shortly  afterwards  on  September  8. 
Huamannemanne,  the  old  priest,  who  had  always  been  so 
friendly  to  the  missionaries,  was  killed  by  order  of  Pomare, 
he  being  in  alliance  with  Otu. 

'  Mannemanne  was  a  native  of  Oryateea,  of  which  island 
he  was  once  chief,  but  his  subjects  revolting  expelled  him 
the  island.  He  then  sought  shelter  on  Otaheite,  and  ob- 
tained it;  and  has  here  exercised  the  office  of  chief  priest 
for  many  years  ;  under  this  character  he  has  been  guilty  of 
much  slaughter,  shedding  torrents  of  human  blood  in  sacri- 
fice to  abominable  idols  and  devils.  He  was  esteemed  by 
all  ranks  as  a  man  of  great  knowledge,  so  that  it  was 
thought  he  had  not  his  equal  on  the  island.  It  appears 
a  jealousy  has  long  subsisted  between  the  deceased  and 
Edea  and  Pomare,  upon  what  account  we  know  not. 
Pomare  seemed  to  stand  in  fear  of  the  priest  (who  was 
related  to  him),  and  had  a  kind  of  persuasion  respecting 
him,  similar  to  that  the  King  of  Moab  had  of  Balaam, 
namely,  "  Whom  he  blessed  was  blessed,  and  whom  he 
cursed  was  cursed."  Many  were  led  away  with  the  delusion 
that  Mannemanne  had  great  influence  with  their  gods.' 


i6o  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOH  ' 

Of  Otu,  then  king,  and  afterwards  the  supreme  ruler  in 
the  island,  the  record  says  : — 

'The  conduct  of  Otoo,  in  consenting  to  the  death  of 
Mannemanne,  at  the  time  he  was  in  close  alliance  with 
him,  opens  the  character  of  the  man  in  a  conspicuous 
manner,  and  confirms  us  in  a  suspicion  we  have  long 
entertained,  but  knew  not  how  to  account  for,  concerning 
the  stripping  of  brothers  Broomhall.  Jefferson,  Main,  and 
W.  Puckey,  at  Opare.  When  that  circumstance  took  place 
we  seemed  assured  it  was  done  by  the  king's  authority,  but 
when  Otoo  afterwards  joined  his  father  in  punishing  the 
poor  people  for  the  same,  we  could  not  readily  reconcile 
his  authorizing  the  action  and  then  destroying  those  that 
did  it.  But  we  had  seen  so  much  of  him  since  that  we 
believe  he  is  capable  of  committing  any  wickedness  the 
devil,  his  carnal  mind,  and  bloodthirsty  followers  may 
excite  him  to,  if  God  did  not  restrain  him.' 

^December  31. — We  are  now  brought  to  the  conclusion 
of  another  year ;  and  on  looking  back,  we  perceive  it  has 
been  a  year  of  singular  events  and  peculiar  providences  with 
us.  Nine  months  out  of  the  twelve  we  have  been  preserved 
in  a  truly  wonderful  manner  ;  and  though  we  have  enjoyed 
great  peace,  yet  frequent  alarms  of  danger  have  been 
sounded  in  our  ears,  and  excited  those  emotions  natural  to 
us  as  men.  By  the  goodness  of  God  we  here  erect  our 
pillar  of  remembrance,  and  thankfully  inscribe  upon  it, 
"Thus  far  the  Lord  hath  helped  us."  Our  time  has  been 
much  employed  in  various  duties.  Some  have  been  occu- 
pied in  constructing  our  habitations  so  as  to  prevent  those 
depredations  we  found  ourselves  exposed  to,  and  suffered 
from  the  natives,  that  have  frequently  much  thronged  us, 
and  whose  eyes  were  like  the  eyes  of  an  eagle  when  in 
quest  of  prey,  and  their  fingers  ready  to  cling  to  everything 
that  came  in  their  way.  Others  have  been  engaged  in 
study,  labouring  to  acquire  that  knowledge  which,  through 
the  grace  of  Christ,  may  render  us  more  profitable  to  others. 
The  attainment  of  the  Otaheitean  language  has  been 
attended  to,  but  we  fall  far  short  herein.     Our  communica- 


REVIEW  OF  179S  i6r 

tions  with  the  natives  have  been  as  free  as  we  deemed  it 
prudent  they  should  be  ;  but  the  strange  construction  of 
their  words  and  sentences,  with  their  quick  arid  vehement 
mode  of  pronunciation,  is  a  difficulty  not  easy  to  be  sur- 
mounted.    We  have  endeavoured  to  lisp  out  something  of 
the  things  of  Christ,  but  at  present  we  see  nothing  to  make 
us  hope  an  arrow  of  conviction  has  taken  place  in  any  poor 
heathen's  heart.     The  instructing  of  the  Otaheiteans  in  any 
useful    art,  though    desirable,  we    suppose    will    never    be 
effected  by  us,  at  least  till  the  Gospel's  powerful  and  saving 
influence   is  felt  ;    for   though    our    superiority  in    various 
things    is   confessed,  yet   prejudice  and  indolence  are  so 
deeply  rooted  in  them,  that  no  attempt  (that  we  know  of) 
is  hitherto  made  to  improve  in  the  building  of  their  houses, 
canoes.  &c.,  though  they  have  many  axes,  saws,  planes,  &c., 
&c.,  in  their  possession.     The  teaching  their  children  letters 
in  their  present  state  of  uncivilization  and  paganism  will, 
we  fear,  be  also  insurmountable :  for  the  spirit  of  their  youths 
can  brook  no  opposition,  no  restriction,  no  correction :  like 
the  wild  ass  in  the  wilderness,  they  delight  in  scenting  the 
air   of  brutal    uncontrolled    freedom.     The    authority    of 
parents  appears  to  be  but  slightly  regarded ;  of  masters, 
not  known.     Children   (the  males),  if  they  like  not  their 
situation,  remove  where   they  list,  without  any  danger  of 
suffering  from  want  of  food,  covering,  or  .shelter.     Even 
the  attendants  of  their  chiefs  remain  no  longer  about  their 
persons  than  they  please.     Notwithstanding  these  things 
are  so,  we  are  not  in  despair.     The  work  we  are  engaged 
in  is  not  ours,  but  God's  :  it  is  otn^s  to  use  the  appointed 
means,  His  to  bless  them.     We  still  continue  to  believe  we 
are  not  brought  and  preserved  here  in  the  manner  we  have 
been  for  naught ;  we  look  forward  to  a  period  when  we 
hope  to  see  the  Word  of  God  run  and  be  glorified.     Many 
dark  seasons  may  intervene,  and   many   fiery  darts  from 
Satan  cause  pangs  unutterable  before  the  arrival  of  that 
period  ;  but  the  sight  of  one  convert  to  Christ  will  more 
than  overpoise  gloomy  prospects  and  Satan's  arrows.' 

During  the   early  part  of  1799  the  little  band   of  mis- 

I.  M 


i62  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

sionaries  kept  bravely  on  their  way.  Inability  to  master 
the  language  was  the  great  hindrance  to  the  work  upon 
which  their  hearts  were  set.  It  is  hard  for  us  to  think  our- 
selves back  into  the  experience  of  these  men.  So  many 
languages  have  been  reduced  to  writing,  so  many  linguistic 
triumphs  won  during  the  century,  that  we  are  apt  to  under- 
rate their  intellectual  ability,  or  to  think  lightly  of  their 
application  and  energy.  But  they  w^ere  patiently  and  per- 
severingly  and  nobly  doing  a  gigantic  work.  They  were 
the  first  in  modern  times  to  grapple  with  a  savage  language, 
reduce  it  to  grammatical  order,  represent  its  sounds,  so 
difficult  to  catch  from  the  lips  of  the  natives,  by  the  proper 
letters,  and  unravel  the  mystery  of  its  complicated  syntax. 
What  was  a  labour  of  heart-breaking  difliculty  to  them 
became  comparatively  easy  to  the  men  who  entered  into 
their  labours,  and  in  reducing  to  writing  the  language  of 
Tahiti  they  practically  accomplished  the  task  for  the  whole 
of  Eastern  Polynesia. 

They  were  also  daily  adding  to  their  knowledge  of  the 
people  and  their  customs. 

^  April  9,  1799. — Our  growth  in  the  knowledge  of  the 
language  still  slow,  and  in  many  c^ses  uncertain ;  which 
is  in  a  great  measure  owing  to  our  not  being  able  to 
catch  the  sound  of  the  words  with  that  exactness  that  is 
necessary.  The  language  abounds  with  vowels,  even  more 
than  any  navigator  who  has  given  specimens  of  it  was 
aware  of.  Many  words  consist  of  nothing  but  vowels, 
and  each  has  a  sound  ;  but  the  natives  utter  their  words 
with  such  rapidity,  that  it  is  with  the  utmost  difficulty  we 
can  discover  the  true  manner  of  spelling  them ;  and  when 
this  is  accomplished  with  any  tolerable  degree  of  precision, 
there  is  as  great  a  labour  to  arrive  at  the  true  sense  and 
meaning  of  a  word,  or  its  various  meanings  ;  for  one  word 
is  used  to  express  very  opposite  things  in  different  sen- 
tences. And,  which  adds  to  the  difficulty,  they  abbreviate 
their  words  so  much,  that  those  which  we  are  well  acquainted 
with,  and  which,  if  fully  pronounced,  we  should  readily 
understand,  are  by  the  abbreviation  so  shortened,  that  we 


DIFFICULTIES   OF  THE  LANGUAGE  163 

frequently  mistake  them  for  new  words,  and  are  thus 
puzzled  and  perplexed.  However,  we  have  good  hopes 
that  when,  by  the  blessing  of  God,  we  have  mastered  the 
language,  and  reduced  it  to  the  best  order  that  our  skill 
will  accomplish,  it  will  be  easy  for  others  to  learn.' 

'  April  23. — Brother  Broomhall's  attempt  to  instruct  the 
young  chief  of  Tearay  to  read  does  not  succeed.  Savage 
ignorance  and  brutal  freedom  are  the  delight  of  the  natives. 
The  children  cannot  bear  to  have  their  desires  crossed, 
their  actions  prohibited,  and  their  wild  ramblings  controlled. 
Learning  requires  application,  to  which  they  are  not  only 
strangers,  but  averse.  We  cannot  use  compulsion,  and 
persuasion  is  labour  without  profit.  We  must  patiently 
wait  for  the  morning,  when  mental  darkness  shall  be  dis- 
persed, and  the  true  light  shine  into  their  hearts ;  when 
new  views,  new  ideas,  new  desires,  shall  arise,  and  thereby 
an  effectual  door  be  opened,  for  profitable  instruction  on 
our  part,  and  beneficial  improvement  on  theirs.' 

^  June  8. — Something  that  was  seen  among  the  people 
to-day  shows  us  that  these  heathens,  like  the  heathens  of 
old.  are  given  up  to  unnatural  affections :  it  is  said  that 
Otoo  is  the  slave  of  such  vile  passions' 

'  Sunday,  Jiily  7. — We  had  a  few  contemptuous  words 
from  some  natives,  the  generality  of  whom,  so  far  as  they 
have  heard  from  us  what  Christianity  is,  treat  the  Lord 
Christ  and  His  religion  with  that  scorn  Satan  and  his 
children  ever  have  done.' 

^October  16. — Some  heavy  rain  this  morning  from  the 
north-west,  weather  in  general  cloudy.  Duties  of  the  day 
as  before.  Heard  that  five  human  sacrifices  have,  within 
a  few  days,  been  brought  over  from  Eimeo,to  this  island. — 
Also  that  many  of  the  inhabitants  of  Opare  (of  the  poorest 
sort)  have  fled  to  the  mountains,  to  avoid  being  seized  for 
human  sacrifices  :  as  Otoo  and  Pomere  are  looking  out  for 
what  they  deem  fit  objects  for  that  purpose.' 

''November  13. — This  morning  a  human  sacrifice  was 
brought  into  this  district  from  Hapyano,  which  they  were 
taking  to  Pomere.     Two  of  the  brethren  saw  the  corpse, 

M  2 


i64  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOH  ' 

it  was  tied  up  in  a  long  basket  made  of  cocoa-nut  leaves : 
his  head  was  much  bruised  with  stones,  with  which  they 
had  killed  him.  It  appears  that  Pomere  is  sending  to 
every  district  of  the  greater  peninsula,  which  is  in  his 
interest,  to  send  him  a  human  sacrifice :  by  this  it  is 
manifest  something  great  is  in  agitation  among  them.' 

At  intervals  all  through  the  year  their  late  colleague, 
Mr.  Lewis,  had  endeavoured  in  various  letters  to  justify 
himself,  and  to  condemn  the  severity  with  which  he 
thought  he  had  been  treated.  The  little  community 
adhered  steadfastly  to  their  first  position.  While  he  con- 
tinued to  reside  with  the  heathen  woman,  while  he  refused 
to  acknowledge  his  sin  against  God  and  his  sin  against  the 
little  church,  they  could  have  no  fellowship  with  him. 
Such  articles  from  the  common  store  as  he  required  and 
asked  for  they  gave  him  ;  the  door  of  the  public  assembly 
was  ever  open  to  him  ;  but  nothing  more.  On  the  morning 
of  November  28  they  were  shocked  when  a  native  from 
Ahonu  brought  the  tidings  of  his  death.  The  incident, 
naturally  enough,  fills  many  pages  of  the  journal,  and  was 
the  subject  of  long  communications  to  the  Directors. 
A  veil  of  mystery  and  uncertainty  has  ever  since  hung 
over  the  event.  Although  it  was  never  proved,  there  was 
grave  reason  to  believe  that  he  had  quarrelled  with  the  rela- 
tives of  the  woman  for  whose  sake  he  had  proved  unfaithful 
to  his  high  calling.  They  coveted  his  property  ;  the  woman, 
to  whom  the  very  idea  of  chastity  was  unknown,  acted  as 
all  her  heathen  sisters  did  ;  quarrels  ensued,  and  in  all 
probability  in  one  of  these  Mr.  Lewis  was  murdered.  The 
brethren  instantly  sent  to  his  residence,  found  there  his 
dead  body,  took  reverent  and  tender  charge  of  it,  and  on 
November  29  brought  it  to  Matavai  for  burial. 

'  At  four  o'clock,  the  brethren  being  assembled,  and  the 
weather  dry,  the  disposition  for  carrying  the  corpse  to  the 
grave  was  made  :  brothers  Nott,  Jefferson,  Eyre,  and 
Bicknell  were  the  bearers,  and  brothers  Harris  and  Broom- 
hall  followed.  The  corpse  being  let  down  into  the  grave, 
brother   Harris    read   Psalm  xc,  and   then    addressed   the 


REVIEW  OF  1799  165 

Most  High  in  a  prayer  suitable  to  the  occasion.  Prayer 
ended,  the  brethren,  with  the  assistance  of  two  or  three 
natives,  filled  up  the  grave,  and  then  withdrew  to  brother 
Eyre's,  where  a  prayer-meeting  was  held.  Our  feelings  at 
this  truly  affecting  season  cannot  be  committed  to  paper.' 

On  December  21  the  British  ship  Betsy,  with  a  Spanish 
brig  as  a  prize,  hove  in  sight,  and  two  days  later  John 
Harris  signified  his  intention  of  going  in  her,  first  to  the 
Friendly  Islands,  that  is,  to  Tongatabu,  to  see  how  the 
brethren  there  had  fared,  and  then  to  Port  Jackson,  pro- 
mising to  return  to  Tahiti  at  the  first  opportunity.  Thus 
the  close  of  this  year  brought  two  sorrows  upon  the  little 
community — one  by  death,  the  other  by  a  further  failure  of 
courage  and  sense  of  duty.  On  December  31  the  dwindling 
band  bade  farewell  to  John  Harris,  who  never  found  the 
convenient  opportunity  to  return.  Still  the  courage  of  the 
few  held  out.  In  the  spirit  of  these  words  they  closed  the 
year  1799:— 

'  By  the  good  hand  of  the  Lord  upon  us,  we  are  brought 
in  safety  to  the  close  of  the  year,  a  year  which  we  have 
abundant  cause  to  remember  with  gratitude  to  the  Most 
High  for  His  mercies  towards  us  on  these  heathen  shores. 
On  taking  a  retrospective  view  of  our  employments,  and 
what  progress  we  have  made  in  the  work  of  our  mission, 
we  see  much  reason  for  humiliation.  It  is  true  no  one,  we 
trust,  has  been  altogether  idle,  nor  can  any  of  us  tell  how 
profitable  we  may  have  been.  Nature  shows  us  that  the 
seed  sown  to-day  must  remain  awhile  in  the  earth  before 
it  can  bear  fruit :  so  what  has  been  spoken  by  one  and  the 
other  of  us,  though  we  do  not  see  it  as  yet  productive 
of  good,  may  not  be  totally  unprofitable.  Certain  it  is, 
the  poor  heathen  of  Otaheite  have  heard  more  of  spiritual 
things  in  the  past  year  than  they  have  ever  heard  before, 
and  which  may,  by  the  blessing  of  the  Lord,  be  preparative 
for  planting  the  Gospel  in  due  time  among  them.  We 
hope  some  prejudices  are  removed,  or  at  least  weakened  ; 
but  others  remain,  and  perhaps  receive  fresh  strength  by 
the  loose,  profligate,  sinful  conduct  of  our  ungodly  country- 


i66  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

men,  who  occasionally  come  here.  However,  the  good  will 
of  God  towards  His  elect  among  the  islanders  can  be 
nothing  hindered  thereby,  though  the  difficulties  on  our 
side  may  be  greater.' 

Darker  and  darker  grew  the  prospect ;  but  in  Tahiti,  as 
in  many  parts  of  God's  great  harvest-field,  the  darkness 
became  denser  just  before  a  dawn.  Long  and  weary  years 
were  still  to  pass  before  the  dawn  they  longed  for  came. 
And  not  all  of  those  who  so  nobly  endured  the  strain 
of  these  early  experiences  were  to  see  it.  But  they  were 
now  to  receive  their  first  encouragement  since  the  great 
desertion  of  1798.  On  January  5,  1800,  the  ship  Eliza, 
from  Port  Jackson,  anchored  in  Matavai  Bay,  and  on  board 
were  Mr.  Henry,  his  wife,  and  their  daughter  Sarah,  return- 
ing to  the  work.  They  are  entitled  to  the  more  honour 
since  they  only  of  the  company  who  fled  in  the  Nautilus 
returned  to  the  work.  To  none  among  the  little  band 
could  this  event  have  been  so  welcome  as  to  Mrs.  Eyre. 

On  January  14  the  Eliza  sailed,  having  inflicted  upon 
both  missionaries  and  natives  the  greatest  possible  injury 
by  giving  Pomare  '  a  carronade,  two  swivels,  several  mus- 
kets, and  a  great  deal  of  ammunition,'  and  further  by 
leaving  behind  four  dissolute  sailors  who  had  deserted,  and 
who,  like  their  kind,  were  to  be  a  constant  source  of  evil  and 
of  trouble.  On  January  31,  j8oo,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry  were 
formally  reunited  to  the  little  church  from  which  they  had 
separated  themselves  by  their  departure  on  March  29,  1798. 

The  daily  round  of  duties  was  resumed  after  the  Eliza 
had  sailed — the  conduct  of  their  private  and  public  devo- 
tional meetings,  needful  work  connected  with  their  houses, 
the  study  of  the  language,  and  intercourse  with  the  natives. 
On  January  25  an  entry  occurs  in  the  journal,  the  first  in 
the  history  of  the  Society  which  illustrates  the  folly  of 
being  too  eager  to  record  spiritual  results  and  to  publish 
them  to  the  world. 

'  Several  months  ago,  brother  Bickrtell  having  had  many 
private  conversations  with  a  native  that  was  frequently  with 
him,  the  man,  to  appearance,  gave  evidences  of  his  being 


MORAL  STRAIN  OF  THE   WORK  167 

under  some  convictions  of  sin,  and  a  concern  for  his  salva- 
tion. In  a  letter  brother  Bicknell  wrote  to  brother  Hassell, 
at  Sydney,  by  the  Cornwall  and  Sally's  prize,  he  took 
notice  of  this  matter,  not  expecting  it  would  go  any  further  ; 
but  we  learn  from  brother  Henry  that  brother  Hassell  has 
wrote  to  England,  to  the  Rev.  George  Burder,  giving  him 
information  of  the  same.  As  we  have  not  mentioned  this 
circumstance  to  the  Directors,  it  will  appear  exceeding 
strange  should  brother  Hassell's  letter  reach  the  Rev.  George 
Burder,  that  our  letters  are  silent  upon  a  matter  of  such 
importance.  Brother  Bicknell  never  made  it  publicly  known 
to  us,  so  that  the  Secretary  was  an  entire  stranger  to  it  till 
within  a  few  days  past.  From  what  brother  Bicknell 
relates,  it  is  not  improbable  but  some  impressions  were 
made  upon  the  man,  and  desires  awakened  in  him  that  he 
before  knew  nothing  of;  but  at  present  those  impressions 
and  desires  appear  to  be  lost.' 

They  were  not  only  disappointed  in  the  case  of  this 
native,  but  they  were  once  more  to  find  a  foe  in  their 
own  household.  On  June  6,  1800,  Mr.  Broomhall  began  to 
act  in  a  way  that  aroused  first  the  fears  and  then  the 
anxious  sympathy  of  his  colleagues ;  and  finally  he  an- 
nounced that  he  had  ceased  to  believe  in  the  immortality 
of  the  soul,  and  declined  to  submit  any  longer  to  the 
restraints  of  the  Gospel.  In  this  case,  as  in  that  of 
Mr.  Lewis,  all  the  persuasive  force  of  brotherly  entreaty, 
earnest  prayer,  and  quiet  reasoning  was  brought  to  bear 
upon  him  ;  but  in  vain.  Finally  the  others  had  also  to 
sever  his  connection  with  the  Society,  and  this  they  did  on 
July  25.  In  the  meantime  Mr.  Broomhall  had  taken 
a  native  of  Raiatea  as  his  wife.  We  dwell  upon  these 
cases  of  moral  weakness  at  some  length  because  they 
exerted  a  depressing  influence  upon  the  little  community, 
because  the  rest  found  them  harder  to  bear  than  all  their 
other  troubles,  and  because  they  illustrate  the  severe  strain 
put  upon  heart  and  mind  and  will  by  such  close  and  con- 
tinuous contact  with  heathenism.  How  these  events,  the 
constant  rumours  of  war,  and  the  absence  of  the  slightest 


i68  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

sign  of  success  told  upon  them  in  the  way  of  steady,  per- 
sistent depression  is  shown  in  such  entries  as  this  in  the 
journal : — 

'  October  31. — Day  very  cloudy,  with  abundance  of  rain. 
In  the  evening  held  an  experience  meeting.  Though  en- 
joying much  outward  peace,  we  find  many  inward  conflicts, 
and  each  one  feels  it  is  not  a  light  matter  to  wrestle 
against  the  powers  of  darkness^  and  a  body  of  death,  and  to 
lay  hold  on  eternal  life.  Our  views  of  our  missionary 
work  are  in  general  dark,  but  not  hopeless.  The  slow 
progress  the  most  of  us  are  making  in  the  knowledge  of  the 
language  of  the  country  fills  us  with  a  degree  of  shame  and 
self-abasement.  In  the  midst  of  all  inward  trials  and 
outward  discouragements,  we  thank  God  for  His  unspeak- 
able mercies  towards  us,  and  commit  all  our  concerns  into 
His  hands  to  dispose  of  them  at  His  good  pleasure.' 

On  December  29  the  Albion,  a  whaler,  anchored  in 
Matavai  Bay,  bringing  tidings  of  the  capture  of  the  Dufi" 
on  her  second  voyage  and  of  the  disasters  that  had  over- 
taken the  Tongatabu  Mission,  and  that  Harris  had  settled 
on  Norfolk  Island.  On  December  31  they  wrote  a  letter 
to  the  Directors,  from  which  we  extract  two  paragraphs. 

'  The  public  preaching  of  the  Gospel  to  the  inhabitants 
of  Otaheite  is  not  yet  commenced,  we  not  yet  being  sufifi- 
ciently  acquainted  with  the  language  of  the  country;  though 
we  endeavour,  as  we  are  able,  to  drop  the  word  of  Hfe  to 
individuals.  In  taking  a  view  of  our  past  and  present 
situations,  with  future  hopes,  through  the  mercy  of  God, 
we  humbly  conceive,  if  an  experienced  Director,  at  the  head 
of  a  well  oi'ganized  body  of  missionaries,  should  be  inclined 
to  join  us,  it  might  be  of  singular  service,  in  establishing 
the  mission  in  this  island,  and  among  the  surrounding  ones. 
The  advantage  our  brethren  would  have  in  learning  the 
language,  through  our  assistance,  would  certainly  be  great, 
and  that  path  we  have  found  rough  to  our  feet,  be  much 
more  easy  to  theirs  ;  for  clear  it  is,  in  our  judgment,  the 
language  of  Otaheite  must  be  learnt  at  Otaheite.' 

'  Though,  to  our  views,  the  work  of  the  mission  seems  to 


DIFFICULTIES  AT  TONGATABU  169 

be  nothing  advanced  with  us,  yet  we  see  we  have  abundant 
cause  to  be  thankful  that  the  whole  fabric  is  not  destroyed  ; 
and  that  there  yet  remaineth  for  us  a  door  of  hope,  though 
in  the  valley  of  Achor.' 

On  January  3,  1 801,  the  Albion  sailed,  and  missionary 
life  on  Tahiti  returned  to  its  normal  conditions.  Mean- 
while we  may  well  pause  here  to  glance  at  what  had  been 
happening  during  the  last  three  years  and  a  half,  first  at 
Tongatabu — some  J, 5comiles  west  of  Tahiti — and  then  at  the 
Marquesas  Islands,  several  hundred  miles  to  the  north-east. 

The  Duff  sailed  from  Tongatabu  on  September  7,  1797. 
The  nine  missionaries  who  had  chosen  it  as  their  field  of 
labour  were  stationed  under  the  charge  of  different  chiefs. 
One  of  their  number,  Veeson,  even  before  the  Duff  sailed, 
had  by  his  conduct  aroused  suspicion,  and  on  October  3 
suspicion  became  certainty.  On  October  6  an  American 
ship  named  the  Mercury  arrived,  and  when  she  sailed 
on  the  13th,  she  had  added  greatly  to  the  difficulty  and 
danger  of  the  missionaries'  position  by  leaving  behind  six 
runaway  sailors.  The  two  already  on  the  island  when  the 
missionaries  landed,  Ambler  and  Morgan,  were  both  men 
of  a  very  low  type,  and  the  additions  now  made  to  their 
number  were  ready  for  any  crime.  At  the  same  time  his 
brethren  were  compelled  to  excommunicate  Veeson.  The 
weeks  passed  quickly,  the  only  religious  meetings  possible 
being  those  held  by  the  missionaries  for  and  among  them- 
selves. Scattered  as  they  were  over  the  whole  of  a  large 
island,  they  held  united  monthly  meetings  at  the  different 
stations  for  the  purpose  of  mutual  encouragement  and 
strength. 

The  natives  of  Tongatabu  were  a  fine  race  physically,  but 
cruel  and  treacherous,  and  even  more  given  to  thieving 
than  those  on  Tahiti.  They  took  umbrage  at  the  prayers 
of  the  missionaries,  and  attributed  various  misfortunes  by 
which  they  were  visited  to  this  practice.  The  following 
extracts  from  the  journal  kept  by  the  missionaries  depict 
their  daily  experience  and  the  occasional  risks  they  ran : — 

'July  13. — The  brethren  were  informed  by  Cowmawic 


I70  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

that  most  of  the  chiefs  in  the  country  had  soHcited  Dugo- 
nagaboola  to  put  us  all  to  death,  to  which  he  supposed 
they  were  instigated  by  a  desire  for  our  property;  our 
prayers  only  furnishing  them  with  a  pretence.  This  report 
was  at  that  time  looked  upon  as  an  artifice  of  his  to 
accomplish  some  selfish  purpose  ;  as  the  chiefs  in  general 
carried  it  so  fair  to  us,  that  we  could  not  see  the  least 
ground  to  suspect  them  of  any  such  design  :  we  however 
soon  found  cause  to  think  a  greater  share  of  credit  due  to 
him,  and  have  since  been  assured  that  about  that  time 
a  plot  was  on  foot,  in  which  some  of  those  who  pretended 
the  most  friendship  for  us,  were  the  most  active. 

'  On  the  2 1st,  about  three  in  the  morning,  the  house  of 
brother  Cooper  was  entered  by  ten  or  twelve  men,  who 
threatening  to  kill  him  if  he  made  any  noise,  ordered  him 
out  of  doors  :  he  instantly  obeyed,  begging  them  not  to 
abuse  him  but  to  take  what  they  found  in  the  house,  upon 
which  they  stript  off  his  shirt,  and  gave  him  a  piece  of 
country  cloth  to  wrap  round  him ;  then  taking  whatever 
they  could  lay  their  hands  on,  they  left  him,  without  doing 
him  any  personal  injury.' 

'  April  4. — We  had  been  able  to  attempt  very  little  in 
a  way  of  conversation,  for  we  found  it  a  hard  matter  to 
convey  to  them  any  proper  ideas  even  of  natural  things, 
wherewith  they  had  not  been  conversant ;  much  more  of 
those  spiritual  and  divine  truths,  the  knowledge  of  which 
is  necessary  to  salvation  :  we  therefore  determined,  in  the 
first  place,  to  spend  one  hour  every  Wednesday  evening  in 
joint  supplications  to  the  Lord,  on  whom  the  whole  success 
of  the  work  depends ;  that  He  would  make  us  both  able 
and  faithful  in  His  service,  and  crown  our  labours  with  His 
blessing,  and  then  to  endeavour  to  reduce  the  language  we 
had  learned  into  some  kind  of  a  grammatical  form,  which 
we  hoped  would  be  of  great  service  to  us  all,  by  giving  us 
a  more  general  and  regular  knowledge  of  it ;  this,  however, 
we  could  not  enter  upon  at  the  present,  no  one  being 
prepared  for  it.' 

The  murder  of  the  great  chief  of  the  island  on  April  21, 


SAD  EVENTS   ON   TONGATABU  171 

1798,  led  to  civil  war,  in  which  the  most  revolting  and 
savage  cruelties  were  committed.  There  is  no  need  to 
attempt  any  full  sketch  of  what  happened.  The  chiefs 
expected  the  missionaries  to  aid  them  in  the  warfare,  and 
could  not  comprehend  the  reasons  why  this  was  impossible. 
The  other  white  men  on  the  island  rivalled  the  natives  in 
ferocity.  The  whole  island  became  the  scene  of  infernal 
deeds,  and  on  May  10  three  of  the  missionaries,  Bowell, 
Gaulton,  and  Harper,  were  massacred.  They  were  slain  by 
the  natives  under  the  mistaken  impression  that  they  were 
actively  siding  with  those  natives  under  whose  protection 
they  had  been  living,  and  who  had  been  defeated  in  battle. 

For  the  next  few  weeks  the  lives  of  the  surviving  mis- 
sionaries were  in  constant  peril,  but  by  God's  overruling 
providence  they  escaped.  On  June  5  they  were  enabled  to 
visit  Ardeo,  where  their  brethren  had  perished. 

'On  our  arrival  at  Ardeo,  we  found  it  a  perfect  desolation  : 
the  fences  were  all  torn  in  pieces,  the  houses  either  burnt  or 
laid  in  ruinous  heaps,  and  the  fruits  mostly  destroyed. 
After  taking  a  short  survey  of  the  premises,  we  were 
conducted  to  the  place  where  our  brethren  lay,  which 
afforded  a  still  more  melancholy  and  distressing  scene  ;  we 
found  brothers  Bowell  and  Gaulton  upon  the  road,  very 
near  to  each  other  ;  brother  Harper  lay  in  the  adjoining 
field,  about  fifty  yards  nearer  home  ;  they  were  all  so  much 
disfigured,  that  we  could  not  have  known  any  of  them,  but 
for  the  natives,  who  had  often  seen  them  since  their  death. 
With  the  assistance  of  the  natives,  digging  a  grave  large 
enough  to  contain  the  brethren,  we  with  some  difficulty 
moved  them  into  it.  and  thus  buried  them  without  either 
coffin  or  shroud,  not  having  so  much  as  a  change  of  country 
cloth  for  our  own  use.' 

Thus  in  less  than  five  years  after  the  foundation  of  the 
Society, and  only  about  two  years  after  beginning  their  work, 
the  first  names  appear  upon  the  martyr  roll  of  the  century. 
The  list  has  grown  large  since  those  early  days,  and  the 
names  of  the  three  that  stand  at  the  head  of  this  roll  of 
glory  are  unknown  to  multitudes  even  of  those  who  support 


172  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

the  Society  to-day.  But  the  names  of  Bowell,  Harper,  and 
Gaulton  deserve  to  be  remembered  wherever  the  story  of 
missionary  zeal  and  consecration  is  recorded.  They  had 
undertaken  the  work  knowing  that  it  involved  possible  risk 
of  life  ;  they  took  the  ribk  ;  the  Great  Head  of  the  Church 
placed  upon  them  this  crowning  service.  Their  heroism, 
and  that  of  their  successors,  should  inspire  afresh  all  who 
read  this  narrative  to  further  with  ever-increasing  zeal  the 
great  cause  for  which  as  valiant  soldiers  they  died. 

F'or  six  months  longer  the  survivors  endured  all  the 
terrors  and  trials  of  savage  life  at  its  worst.  They  could 
make  little  or  no  progress  in  the  work  of  either  civilizing  or 
evangelizing  the  natives.  War,  remarkably  alike  whether 
waged  among  savages  or  civilized  people,  arrests  all  work 
that  is  for  the  highest  and  best  interests  of  men.  It  is 
not  surprising  then  to  read  in  the  journal  words  like 
these : — 

'  Thus  we  had  passed  nearly  nine  months  since  the  death 
of  our  friend  Dugonagaboola,  labouring  under  a  complica- 
tion of  evils  arising  from  the  inhuman  war,  which  was 
conducted  with  the  most  savage  barbarity  ;  from  our  entire 
subjection  to  the  people,  whereby  our  usefulness  among 
them,  in  the  way  we  intended,  was  totally  prevented  ;  and 
from  our  consequent  poverty,  being  destitute  of  raiment, 
and  nearly  of  necessary  food  ;  these  evils  seemed  to  accu- 
mulate daily,  by  the  assiduity  of  our  enemies,  for  we  had  the 
most  positive  assurances  that  Loogalalla  had  determined  on 
the  death  of  some,  perhaps  of  several  of  us,  on  his  return  to 
the  island,  which  was  expected  in  less  than  a  month ;  and 
if  any  survived  his  cruelty,  they  must  have  expected  to 
share  deep  in  the  calamities  arising  from  the  late  storm. 
With  these  discouraging  views,  some  had  entertained  serious 
thoughts  of  quitting  the  island  in  our  small  boat,  and 
attempting  a  voyage  to  the  coast  of  New  Holland  ;  but  it 
appeared  to  others  no  better  than  flying  from  one  death  to 
a  worse,  for  it  was  very  unlikely  we  could  ever  have 
made  Port  Jackson,  being  destitute  of  every  material  for 
navigation,  and   having   no   way  to   procure   a   sufficient 


SURVIVORS  LEAVE   TONGATABU  173 

quantity  of  food  and  water  for  our  support  ;  but  in  this 
season  of  distress  the  Lord  appeared  for  our  deliverance  in 
a  way  quite  unexpected.' 

The  deHverance  was  the  arrival  on  January  31  of  the 
Betsy,  which  had  left  Tahiti  on  January  i,  and  on 
Captain  Clark  offering  them  a  passage  to  Port  Jackson, 
this  way  of  escape  was  thankfully  accepted.  Cooper,  until 
1801  when  he  returned  to  England,  and  Shelly  returned 
for  a  time  to  Tahiti.  Buchanan,  Kelso,  and  Wilkinson, 
in  company  with  Cover  of  Tahiti,  returned  to  England  at 
once,  reaching  London  September  5,  i  800.  Veeson,  who 
had  so  far  identified  himself  with  the  natives  of  Tongatabu 
as  to  adopt  their  customs,  was  left  on  the  island. 

Thus  ended  the  first  attempt  to  evangelize  Tonga.  It 
has  since  become,  through  the  work  of  the  Wesleyan 
Missionary  Society,  one  of  the  trophies  of  the  Gospel. 
It  is  easy  to  criticize  the  action  of  this  first  band  of 
missionaries.  What  the  original  Directors  thought  we 
know  from  their  own  words  : — 

'  Whilst  we  admire  the  piety  and  patience  of  the  faithful 
missionaries,  under  the  trials  they  experienced,  we  conceive 
that  the  melancholy  event  of  the  death  of  three  of  the 
brethren  on  the  island  inculcates  on  future  missionaries  in 
such  situations  the  expediency  of  continuing  in  society, 
rather  than  separating  from  each  other  among  a  barbarous 
people,  as,  according  to  human  probability,  had  they  con- 
tinued in  a  body,  instead  of  placing  themselves  under  the 
care  of  the  different  chiefs,  the  events  which  we  now  have 
to  deplore  had  not  occurred.' 

Looking  at  all  the  circumstances  we  are  inclined  to 
think  the  secret  of  failure  was  the  absence  of  any  one 
man  who  put  all  personal  considerations  completely  out 
of  sight.  It  is  at  any  rate  noteworthy  that  only  one 
member  of  the  TonGfatabu  Mission  was  ever  afterwards 
of  the  slightest  use  to  mission  work,  and  he  for  only 
a  brief  period.  The  rest  disappear  from  history.  It 
is  at  least  open  to  question  whether  a  Henry  Nott  or 
a   John  Williams  would   not    have  evangelized   Tonga   in 


174  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOH  ' 

the  first  decade   of  the   century,   had   such   an  one  been 
among  that  Httle  band. 

In  this  connection  also,  before  resuming  the  story  of 
Tahiti,  we  will  refer  to  Crook's  experiences  upon  the 
island  of  Santa  Christina  in  the  Marquesas  group.  For 
a  year  after  the  departure  of  the  Duff,  Crook  toiled  on 
at  his  solitary  task,  chiefly  occupied  in  mastering  the 
language.  He  was  treated  kindly  by  the  chiefs,  but  the 
natives  were  so  improvident  that  food  was  often  very 
scarce.  At  the  end  of  this  time  an  American  vessel  ap- 
peared off  the  island  and  Crook  went  on  board.  The 
wind  freshened  so  much  that  she  could  not  make  the 
harbour,  and  finally  Crook  asked  the  captain  to  land  him 
upon  Sir  Henry  Martyn's  Island,  sixty  miles  north-west 
of  Santa  Christina. 

'  Here  '  (we  quote  the  record  as  it  stands  in  "Ca^  Evangelical 
Review  for  1799)  'the  natives,  astonished  to  find  a  white 
man  speak  in  their  own  language,  received  him,  though 
destitute  of  anything  but  what  he  had  on,  with  the 
greatest  cordiality ;  and,  till  he  dissuaded  them  from  the 
extravagant  opinion,  considered  him  as  a  god.  The  prin- 
cipal chief  immediately  made  him  his  Tayo,  and  supplied 
him  with  a  profuse  liberality.  In  a  short  time  he  obtained 
a  large  piece  of  ground  stocked  with  bread-fruit,  cocoa- 
nuts,  and  the  tarro-roots,  which  he  enclosed  with  a  bamboo 
fence,  planted,  and  built  a  house  upon  it.  After  a  residence 
of  seven  months,  the  ships  Euphrates  and  Butterworth, 
both  south-whalers  from  London,  put  in  for  refreshments, 
to  whom  he  was  of  considerable  service,  as  interpreter,  as 
well  as  in  procuring  for  them  a  plentiful  supply.  Despairing 
of  seeing  the  ship  Duff  in  this  island,  he  thought  he  could 
best  serve  the  cause  by  returning  (hoping  to  arrive  in 
England  before  she  left  it)  and  by  representing  to  the 
Directors  the  real  state  of  the  whole  group  of  the  Mar- 
quesas, together  with  the  propriety  of  sending  more  mis- 
sionaries, who,  by  exhibiting  a  form  of  Christian  economy, 
might  induce  the  natives,  from  what  they  should  see  in 
domestic  life,  to  pay  greater  attention  to  the  instructions 


MORAL  EVILS   OF  HEATHENISM  175 

given  them.  This  he  judged  might  be  facilitated  by  his 
knowledge  of  the  language  and  customs  of  the  people,  with 
which  he  could  make  them  acquainted  in  some  measure  on 
the  voyage.' 

We  now  take  up  again  the  thread  of  events  at  Tahiti. 
Upon  the  departure  of  the  Albion  on  January  3,  1801,  life 
there  returned  to  its  normal  current.  On  every  side  the 
five  faithful  workers  saw  painful  evidence  that  the  natives 
needed  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel,  and  yet  it  remained 
as  impossible  as  ever  to  persuade  them  to  accept  these 
blessings.  Here  is  a  black  picture  which  was  a  reproach 
to  our  civilization  then,  and  is,  in  many  respects,  among 
the  islands  of  Polynesia,  in  the  same  way  a  reproach  to 
European  civilization  to-day,  notwithstanding  all  that  the 
Gospel  has  undoubtedly  achieved. 

^  January  '^i. — Among  the  natives  around  us  are  many 
objects  of  compassion,  whose  bodies  are  wasting  with 
disease,  and  their  souls  hurrying  into  eternity  in  a  state  of 
the  utmost  insensibility.  It  is  surprising  what  havoc  disease 
has  made  since  we  have  been  on  the  island.  Matavai  is 
almost  depopulated,  in  comparison  to  what  it  once  was, 
according  to  the  accounts  given  by  the  natives  ;  and  not  only 
this  district,  but  the  w^hole  island.  Stout  men  are  cut  down 
in  a  few  months ;  women  and  children  share  the  like  fate. 
They  say  the  disorder  that  makes  such  havoc  among  them 
came  from  England  ;  and  we  have  told  them  repeatedly 
that  it  is  owing  to  the  wickedness  of  their  women,  in 
prostituting  themselves  to  the  sailors  of  the  vessels  that 
come  here.  They  understand  what  we  say,  and  assent  to 
the  truth  of  it,  but  their  hearts  are  so  set  upon  covetousness, 
that  the  appearance  of  a  vessel  effaces  all  remembrance  of 
the  evils  they  have  suffered,  and  are  suffering  :  and  they 
burn  with  a  desire  to  obtain  something,  if  it  is  but  a  rag ; 
this  induces  husbands  to  prostitute  their  wives,  and  parents 
their  children.' 

On  June  25,  1801,  H.M.  ship  Porpoise  arrived  to  barter 
for  hogs,  which  were  to  be  salted  and  conveyed  to  Port 
Jackson.     Governor  King  had  written  to  the  missionaries 


176  *  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

asking  them  to  do  anything  in  their  power  to  aid  this 
work,  and  this  request  they  gladly  obeyed. 

At  length  on  July  10,  1801,  the  Royal  Admiral  arrived 
bringing  new  helpers,  letters  from  home,  and  a  most 
welcome  supply  of  stores.  It  was  nearly  four  years  since 
the  Duff  had  left  them,  and  this  was  the  first  official  com- 
munication which  the  Directors  had  been  able  to  make 
with  the  Tahiti  missionaries  since  that  date.  The  re- 
inforcement consisted  of  James  Read,  John  Davies, 
James  Elder,  William  Scott,  Samuel  Tessier,  John  Youl, 
Charles  Wilson,  William  Waters,  and  James  Hayward. 
Of  these  Hayward,  Waters,  Wilson,  and  Youl  had  been 
captured  in  the  Duff.  Read  had,  during  the  voyage 
out  of  the  Royal  Admiral,  exhibited  such  an  unhappy 
spirit,  that  finally  the  whole  body  of  missionaries  urged 
Captain  Wilson  to  take  him  away  again  ;  and  this  he  did. 
We  shall  hear  of  him  later  on  in  Ceylon  ^  Shelly  of 
Tongatabu  was  on  the  Royal  Admiral  on  his  way  to 
England,  but  when  he  learned  how  matters  were  going 
on  that  island,  decided  to  rejoin  the  Tahiti  Mission  if  the 
brethren  would  consent  to  his  marriage  with  a  young 
woman  at  Sydney,  and  allow  him  to  return  thither  for 
that  purpose.  Broomhall  was  removed  from  the  island  by 
Captain  Wilson.  These  changes  increased  the  effective 
working  force  of  the  mission  from  five  to  fourteen. 

After  a  stay  of  three  weeks  the  Royal  Admiral  sailed, 
carrying  away,  as  a  great  and  final  benefit  to  the  mission, 
*  three  wretched  runaway  seamen,  who  were  a  nuisance  to  all 
society,  disturbers  of  public  peace,  and  enemies  of  all  good.' 

From  an  unpublished  letter  written  by  Jefferson  to 
Mr.  Hardcastle,  Treasurer  of  the  Society,  only  ten  days 
after  the  Royal  Admiral  sailed,  we  take  one  or  two 
extracts. 

'  In  our  letters  by  Captain  Wilson  we  wrote  for  a  re- 
inforcement of  at  least  thirty  missionaries,  and  the  major 
part  of  them  to  be  married,  being  convinced  in  our  minds 
that  the  most  probable  and  efficacious  way  of  disseminating 

^  See  vol.  ii.  p.  20. 


NOTT  PREACHES  IN   TAHITIAN  177 

the  Gospel  among  the  Society  Islands  will  be  by  branching 
out  from  the  main  body  on  this  island  as  it  shall  please 
the  Lord  to  point  us  the  way.  If  this  request  should  be 
thought  meet  to  be  granted,  we  hope  our  honoured  fathers 
and  brethren  will  be  very  careful  in  the  selection  of  those 
to  be  sent,  and  that  they  be  furnished  with  every  necessary 
instruction  for  organization  ;  and  if  an  experienced  Director 
was  to  be  appointed  to  superintend  the  whole  Missir-n  we 
believe  it  would  be  attended  with  advantage.' 

Here  we  have  the  first  hint  of  the  method  of  extend- 
ing the  work  which  was  to  be  so  wondrously  successful  in 
the  next  twenty-five  years.  Experience,  bitter  and  full  of 
sorrow  in  some  respects  as  it  had  been,  was  making  those 
who  were  strong  enough  to  stand  it,  wise  to  plan  and 
energetic  to  accomplish.  But  the  '  thirty  missionaries '  and 
the  '  experienced  Director'  never  came.  The  missionaries 
on  Tahiti  were  now  beginning  to  come  into  closer  touch 
with  the  people,  for  near  the  end  of  the  letter  comes  this 
sentence  : — 

'We  have  the  satisfaction  of  informing  the  Missionary 
Society  that  by  the  grace  of  God  we  hope,  for  the  first 
time,  pubHcly  to  address  the  natives  on  the  next  Lord's 
day.     Brother  Nott  will  be  the  speaker.' 

This  event  marks  the  beginning  of  evangelistic  work. 
From  February  26  until  April  5,  1802,  Nott  and  Elder 
were  engaged  in  a  preaching  tour  throughout  the  island. 
The  results  were  not  wholly  discouraging,  and  it  was  often 
a  work  of  difficulty  to  collect  an  audience  ;  but  the  native 
mind  was  enabled  to  become  more  familiar  with  elementary 
Christian  truths.  Here  is  an  incident  which  happened  at 
the  close  of  this  first  evangelistic  journey  in  Polynesia. 

'  Stinday^  April  4. — Early  this  morning  went  back  to 
Faa  ;  at  one  place  collected  and  preached  to  forty  persons, 
and  at  another  forty-five  more ;  several  of  them  were  very 
attentive.  Arrived  at  our  lodgings  in  the  afternoon.  This 
evening  brother  Nott  overheard  several  young  men,  who 
have  accompanied  us  round  the  island,  giving  an  account 
of  our  religion  to  some  strangers  in  a  very  full  and  clear 
I.  N 


178  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

manner  according  to  what  they  had  heard.  Afterwards 
brother  Nott  assembled  them,  and  examined  them,  and 
laboured  to  impress  upon  their  minds  a  sense  of  the  great 
advantages  they  had  compared  with  those  of  their  country- 
men who  had  only  heard  once.  He  also  warned  them  of 
the  danger  of  neglecting  so  great  salvation.  We  were 
pleased  to  find  that  they  had  caught  almost  every  idea 
that  has  been  communicated.  One  boy  said,  "  We  sent 
the  Duff  last ;  if  we  had  sent  the  Gospel  by  the  first  ship, 
their  feather  gods  would  have  been  thrown  away  long  ago."  ' 

During  this  journey,  near  the  great  marae  or  sacred 
place  in  the  district  of  Atahuru,  the  centre  of  the  worship 
of  Oro.  where  they  saw  '  several  human  sacrifices  hanging 
on  the  trees,'  Nott  and  Elder  witnessed  an  event  which 
led  very  shortly  to  civil  war.  The  people  of  Atahuru 
were  the  guardians  of  Oro,  '  a  billet  of  wood  which  these 
poor  heathens  call  their  Great  God.'  Otu,  contrary  to 
their  desires,  seized  the  god  and  carried  him  off.  The 
people  of  Atahuru  in  turn  attacked  Otu,  and  in  all  proba- 
bility the  mission  would  have  perished  in  the  civil  strife 
which  ensued  had  there  not  appeared  at  that  time  to 
be  an  unusually  large  number  of  Europeans  in  Tahiti. 
A  ship  called  the  Norfolk  had  been  wrecked,  and  her  crew 
of  seventeen  landed  at  Matavai,  and  two  other  vessels 
were  in  the  neighbourhood.  Pomare  sided  with  the  people 
of  Atahuru,  and  brought  reinforcements  over  from  Eimeo. 
Many  conflicts  took  place,  victory  inclining  first  to  one 
side  and  then  the  other. 

'  The  work  of  preaching  the  Gospel  continues  '  (writes 
Jefferson  under  date  of  July  8) ;  'and  so  far  the  Lord  has 
overruled  the  disorders  of  the  land,  by  giving  several 
hundreds  of  this  island  and  Eimeo  an  opportunity  to  hear 
the  word  of  salvation,  who  would  not,  perhaps,  have  heard 
it  for  months  to  come.  One  circuit  of  the  island  was 
taken  just  before  the  rebellion  broke  out,  and  the  Gospel 
preached  in  every  district,  except  Attahooroo.  In  the 
midst  of  great  darkness  and  perplexity,  we  sometimes 
have  a  gleam  of  hope  that  God  is  humbling  this  people, 


CONTINUED   WANT  OF  SUCCESS  179 

and  thereby  preparing  them  for  a  more  cheerful  and 
universal  reception  of  His  word.  Otoo  has,  of  late,  on  two 
Sabbath-days,  desired  to  hear  the  word  of  Jehovah  ;  which 
was  accordingly  spoken  to  him,  and  others  of  his  family, 
and  many  of  his  subjects  that  he  assembled  to  hear.  He 
seems  to  have  some  idea  that  there  is  but  one  God  ;  and 
expresses  no  dislike  to  any  part  of  the  plan  of  salvation, 
so  far  as  he  can  comprehend  it.  Pomare  is  a  most 
bigoted  man,  and  is,  as  it  were,  the  soul  of  his  country's 
abominable  superstition.' 

In  October  and  November  Jefferson  and  Scott  journeyed 
through  the  island,  preaching  wherever  they  could  get 
a  hearing.     They  sum  their  impressions  thus  : — 

'  Since  our  absence  we  have  spoken  to  2051  persons, 
capable  of  understanding  the  word,  on  the  larger  peninsula, 
and  1650  on  the  other:  which  makes  3701.  .  .  .  The 
effects  of  the  late  civil  war  are  visible  from  the  Isthmus 
on  the  north  side  all  round  Tyarrabboo,  and  the  south  side 
of  the  island  to  Matavai.  Scarce  a  house  is  now  left  that 
was  standing  before  the  commencement  of  the  war  ;  and 
the  natives  are  living  in  such  miserable  cottages  as  they 
have  since  been  able  to  erect.  .  .  .  We  have,  in  general,  met 
with  much  kindness  at  those  places  where  we  have  stopped. 
They  have  entertained  us  in  the  best  manner  possible  ; 
and.  in  some  places,  offered  us  presents  of  cloth,  which 
we  refused  to  accept.  We  have  been  grieved  that  we 
had  it  not  in  our  power  to  make  some  acknowledgement 
to  those  who  have  treated  us  so  civilly,  and  think  that 
something  should  be  done  in  order  to  make  a  return  for 
their  hospitality  :  otherwise  it  is  probable  that  they  will 
soon  be  wearied,  if  they  are  frequently  visited.  Although 
we  can  give  no  flattering  hopes  of  the  Gospel's  success 
among  them,  yet  we  believe  the  means  are  not  used  in 
vain.  The  names  of  Jehovah  and  Jesus  Christ  are  univer- 
sally known,  and  several  things  respecting  them.  As  God 
has  appointed  the  preaching  of  the  word  for  the  salvation 
of  sinners,  we  hope,  in  due  time,  that  blessed  end  will 
be  answered  on  Otaheite.' 

N  2 


i8o  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

Meanwhile  the  missionaries  were  adding  daily  to  their 
knowledge  of  the  language. 

'  Tuesday^  Feb.  i. — Ever  since  the  brethren's  arrival  in 
the  Royal  Admiral,  learning  the  speech  of  the  country  has 
been  closely  attended  to  :  for  which  purpose  two  meetings, 
and  sometimes  more,  weekly,  are  held  ;  at  which  brother 
Xott  presides  and  gives  instructions  in  putting  English 
sentences  into  Otaheitan,  as  asked,  or  correcting  the  Ota- 
heitan  where  wrong :  which  sentences  are  committed  to 
writing.  This  method  has  been  attended  with  general 
success,  though  some  have,  from  their  natural  abilities  and 
persevering  attention,  made  considerably  more  progress 
than  others.' 

The  working  power  of  the  mission  had  been  meanwhile 
diminished  by  the  loss  of  Waters,  who  had  become  insane. 
He  does  not  appear  to  have  been  dangerous,  but  was 
rendered  incapable  of  service,  wished  to  teach  the  natives 
Hebrew,  fell  in  love  with  the  queen,  and  is  another  illus- 
tration of  how  severe  is  the  strain  of  such  a  life  as  they 
were  all  then  compelled  to  live.  In  August  of  this  year 
Jefferson  writes  : — 

'The  natives  everywhere  upbraid  the  English  for  the 
introduction  of  those  disorders  which  they  plainly  see 
are  dispeopling  their  country  ;  but  they  do  not  appear 
to  credit  us  when  we  endeavour  to  show  them  that  their 
own  impieties  are  drawing  down  the  judgment  of  the 
only  true  and  living  God  upon  them :  and  they  seem 
to  pay  but  little  regard  to  us  when  we  strive  to  point 
them  to  Jesus  Christ  as  the  only  propitiation  for  sin.  On 
the  contrary,  the  generality  of  them  contemn  the  word 
of  life,  and  charge  it  with  being  foolishness.  The  state 
of  Otaheite  is  more  miserable  and  pitiable,  our  honoured 
fathers  and  brethren,  than  perhaps  you  are  aware  of. 
Numbers  are  dying  upon  our  right  hand  and  upon  our  left 
without  God,  without  Christ,  without  hope,  and  without 
the  least  apparent  real  desire  to  seek  after  God,  if  haply 
they  may  find  Him  !  Fretted  with  seeing  their  relatives  and 
friends  cut  off  on  every  side  by  pining  diseases,  many  behold 


DEATH  OF  POM  A  RE  I  i8i 

us  with  an  eye  of  jealousy,  and  not  a  few  are  ready  to 
charge  us  with  the  death  of  their  countrymen,  and  as  being 
intruders  on  their  country/ 

An  event  of  very  great  moment  in  the  Httle  circle  of 
Tahitian  politics  happened  at  this  time.  On  September 
3,  1^03,  Pomare,  the  father  of  King  Otu,  died  very  sud- 
denly in  his  canoe  while  paddling  out  to  a  brig  called  the 
Dart,  then  at  anchor  off  IMatavai.  He  was  supposed  to 
be  between  fifty  and  sixty  years  of  age  at  his  death.  His 
father  was  a  native  of  Tahiti,  his  mother  of  Raiatea,  and 
he  was  born  in  the  district  of  Opare  and  by  birth  was 
chief  only  of  that  region.  Intercourse  with  the  European 
vessels  which  called  at  the  island  enlarged  his  ideas,  and 
by  the  aid  very  largely  of  the  Bounty  mutineers  he  ex- 
tended his  sway  over  the  whole  of  Tahiti  and  Eimeo. 
He  used  his  power  with  a  heavy  hand  against  all  who 
opposed  him  ;  but  in  disposition  he  was  peaceful,  and  fond 
of  building  houses  and  canoes  and  of  cultivating  the  land. 
He  had  the  wit  to  appreciate  the  power  of  Europeans, 
and  was  shrewd  to  recognize  the  value  of  the  various 
articles  of  civilization  brought  by  their  vessels.  For  the 
English  he  had  an  especial  affection,  and  it  is  one  of  the 
many  providential  circumstances  connected  with  the  arrival 
of  the  Duff  that  the  most  powerful  man  in  Tahiti  should 
have  been  very  well  disposed  to  the  nation  from  which  she 
came.  He  was  always  friendly  with  the  missionaries,  not 
because  he  was  in  the  least  degree  attracted  by  their 
teaching,  but  from  purely  selfish  motives.  In  fact  the 
better  he  got  to  know  the  real  object  of  their  coming 
the  less  likely  was  he  to  favour  them,  for  he  was  the  most 
bigoted  of  Polynesian  idolaters. 

'  In  person,'  writes  Jefferson  in  the  Journal,  '  he  was  the 
most  respectable  man  we  have  seen  since  living  here  ;  tall, 
stout,  well  proportioned  ;  grave  in  countenance^,  majestic 
in  deportment,  and  affable  in  behaviour.  As  to  his  morals, 
he  was  a  poor  untaught  heathen,  under  the  dominion  of 
a  reprobate  mind  ;  and,  according  to  his  religion,  nothing 
was   sin  with  him  but  neglecting  praying   and    sacrificing 


i82  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

to  his  gods.  In  these  things  he  was  exemplary.  Satan 
surely  never  had  (and  we  pray  God  he  never  again  may 
have)  another  like  him  among  these  heathens,  who  sup- 
ported his  interest  with  his  whole  power,  and  whose  study 
(from  the  servile  fear  of  death)  was  to  gain  his  favour, 
whatever  it  might  cost.  The  maraes  built,  and  the  altars 
reared  at  his  command  all  over  the  island,  are  not  a  few, 
on  which  hogs  and  fish  were  profusely  offered  ;  and  several 
hundreds  of  his  subjects  he  has,  in  his  time,  caused  to 
be  murdered,  and  presented  as  costly  sacrifices  to  the 
powers  of  darkness.' 

Whatever  his  motives  may  have  been,  Pomare  never 
failed  in  any  crisis  to  exert  his  authority  for  the  protection 
and  the  welfare  of  the  missionaries,  and  no  one  in  1798 
seemed  to  feel  the  desertion  of  the  larger  half  of  them  more 
than  he  and  his  consort  Idia.  The  only  thing  he  would  not 
do  for  them  was  to  believe  their  teaching  and  relinquish 
his  cruel  and  bloody  idolatrous  rites.  He  died,  as  he 
had  lived,  heathen  to  the  core. 

During  the  remainder  of  1803  and  the  year  1804  work 
was  carried  on  under  depressing  circumstances.  Every- 
where it  was  met  with  either  indifference  or  hostility  to 
Christian  teaching,  or  else  the  message  was  treated  with 
contempt  or  ridicule.  Meanwhile  the  natives  were  dying 
by  hundreds.  Internecine  warfare  and  the  ravages  of 
disease  would  have  speedily  depopulated  the  island,  had 
it  not  been  for  the  introduction  of  Christianity.  But  at 
this  period  there  were  no  signs  of  improvement.  The 
efforts  made,  especially  by  Davies  and  Scott,  to  induce 
the  children  to  attend  schools,  bore  little  or  no  fruit. 
The  former  in  an  interesting  letter  summarizes  the  diffi- 
culties in  the  way  of  teaching  heathen  children.  It  is 
hard  to  get  them  together ;  they  are  always  otherwise 
occupied  at  the  time  of  teaching,  fishing,  playing,  &c.  ; 
if  assembled,  very  often  the  elders  also  come,  and  either 
disturb  the  meeting  or  else  ridicule  it ;  the  disposition 
of  the  children  is  such  that  their  attention  will  not  dwell 
long  on  any  one  subject ;  and  finally  in  Tahiti,  as  elsewhere. 


STUDY  OF  THE   LANGUAGE  183 

they  were  willing  to  be  taught  only  provided  they  were 
paid  for  it.  In  the  face  of  difficulties  like  these  it  is  not 
surprising  that  education  made  slow  progress. 

Otu  had,  soon  after  his  father's  death,  assumed  the  name 
of  Pomare  ^,  and  began  but  very  slowly  to  manifest  any 
hopeful  signs.  On  November  15,  1803,  Jefferson  and 
Scott,  while  on  tour,  visited  him  in  the  Papara  district. 

'  Otoo  received  us  very  kindly,  and  desired  us  to  stay 
with  him  all  the  day  after  to-morrow.  He  employs  his 
time  in  eating,  drinking,  and  romping  with  his  attendants. 
He  has,  however,  spared  so  much  time  from  his  sports, 
as,  with  the  assistance  of  Europeans  that  occasionally 
assist  him,  to  learn  to  make  the  letters  of  the  English 
alphabet,  to  know  their  names,  and  to  put  them  together 
so  as  to  form  sundry  words  and  short  sentences.  He 
has  with  him  a  native  of  the  Sandwich  Islands,  who  has 
been  in  England,  and  who  is  constantly  telling  him  some- 
thing of  what  he  saw  there  ;  so  that  his  ideas  of  things 
are  much  enlarged  ;  but  he  is  extremely  wild  and  unsteady, 
and  appears  deeply  attached  to  his  country's  idolatry  and 
superstition.' 

During  1805  the  study  of  the  language  was  energetically 
pursued.  It  should  never  be  forgotten  that  this  was  the 
first  attempt  of  the  kind  of  which  we  have  any  record 
in  modern  missions,  that  the  language  was  very  difficult 
for  this  purpose,  and  that  the  attempt  was  made  by  men 
who  had  had  no  special  training  whatever  in  such  work, 
or  in  the  studies  .suitable  for  such  an  undertaking.  Hence 
they  had  to  work  out  all  the  principles,  and  solve  all  the 
problems  by  and  for  themselves.  We  are  able  to  look  in 
upon  them  at  their  toil. 

'  Maixh  II,  1805. — On  Friday,  two  hours  were  employed 


*  Ellis,  Polynesian  Kescarc/ics,  ii.  p.  71  (1832),  thus  explains  that  the 
assumption  of  this  title  by  Otu's  father  was  purely  accidcntnl.  Camping  once 
on  a  night  journey,  he  caught  cold  and  was  afflicted  with  a  cough.  His  com- 
panions called  the  night  po-viai'c,  from  po  night  and  7)iare  cough.  The 
sound  pleased  the  king,  and  hencefoith  he  took  Pomare  as  his  name,  styling 
himself  '  His  Majesty  Pomare.' 


i84  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

in  composing  an  alphabet  of  the  Taheitean  language,  in 
which  it  was  proposed  that  the  EngHsh,  or  Roman 
characters,  should  be  taken,  and  Taheitean  names  given 
them,  for  a  more  easy  and  natural  introduction  of  letters 
among  the  native.  An  alphabet  was  then  drawn  up  and 
agreed  to  by  the  majority,  composed  of  such  letters  as 
were  supposed  to  be  in  the  language ;  though  it  must 
be  observed  that  our  judgments  in  this  particular  (namely, 
what  letters  are  in  the  language)  differ,  in  some  respects, 
very  much.' 

'  Wednesday,  April  9,  1806. — In  the  afternoon  had  a 
meeting  to  read  our  Taheitean-English  Vocabulary.  It  is 
proper  to  observe,  that  our  meetings  for  the  purpose  of 
collecting,  in  alphabetical  order,  all  known  Taheitean  words, 
commenced  in  March,  1805;  from  that  time  we  have  in 
general  met  twice  a  week.  We  have  paid  a  native  for 
attending  our  meetings,  in  order  to  ascertain  the  proper 
pronunciation  of  every  word  which  we  have  written  down, 
according  to  our  new  alphabet,  as  also  its  corresponding 
Knglish,  and  its  various  significations.  We  have  now  gone 
through  the  alphabet  in  that  manner,  and  to-day  began  to 
read  what  is  put  down,  for  the  purpose  of  farther  correction. 

'  Our  present  collection  amounts  to  2100  words,  exclusive 
of  5C0  names  of  trees,  plants,  fishes,  birds,  insects,  &c. 
There  are  also  several  hundreds  more  of  names,  expressive  of 
the  qualities  and  states  of  bread-fruit,  plantains,  cocoa-nuts, 
&c.,  &c.  It  appears  that  the  Taheitean  language  has  been 
much  mistaken  by  Europeans  in  general ;  all  the  vocabu- 
laries we  have  seen  are  essentially  deficient  and  erroneous, 
not  only  in  the  spelling  and  signification  of  words,  but  in 
all  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  language.  It  has  been 
represented  as  uncommonly  easy  of  attainment ;  but  we 
know  the  contrary,  by  long  experience.  In  respect  to 
some  of  the  common  occurrences  of  life,  we  allow  that 
an  European  of  ordinary  capacity  may  soon  make  himself 
understood  ;  but  in  respect  to  such  a  knowledge  of  the 
language  as  is  necessary  to  convey  instruction,  it  is  far 
otherwise. 


POM  A  RE  II  LEARNS    TO    WRITE  185 

'  The  Taheitean  language,  as  may  be  justly  expected, 
is  destitute  of  all  such  words,  common  among  civilized 
nations,  as  relate  to  the  arts  and  sciences,  law  proceedings, 
trade  and  commerce,  and  most  of  those  made  use  of  in 
theology,  &c.,  &c.  But  when  we  view  it  as  having  a 
relation  to  those  objects  that  are  known  and  in  use  among 
the  natives,  the  language  is  full  and  copious.  Its  radical 
parts,  or  those  words  that  are  simple  roots,  are  only  a  few 
hundreds  in  number ;  yet  these,  few  as  they  are,  may, 
by  the  help  of  prefixes  and  affixes,  be  easily  multiplied 
to  5C00  or  6coo.  so  as  to  express,  with  much  precision, 
any  idea  commonly  occurring  to  a  native's  mind. 

'  The  greatest  difficulties  for  attaining  this  language  arise 
from  the  vast  number  of  words  that  are  nearly  the  same  in 
pronunciation,  but  widely  different  in  sense ;  from  their 
different  way  of  forming  their  sentences  from  what  an 
European  would  naturally  do  ;  from  their  manner  of  con- 
fining a  word  or  term  to  a  particular  thing,  whereas  its 
correspondent  English  would  be  applied  also  to  the  other 
things  of  the  same  kind  ;  as  also  from  the  arbitrary  altera- 
tions introduced  from  time  to  time,  on  account  of  some 
words  or  syllables  becoming  sacred.' 

One  hopeful  sign,  already  indicated,  was  that  Pomare 
had  begun  learning  to  write.  The  Tahitian  chiefs  were 
not  only  a  fine  race  physically,  but  their  mental  gifts  were 
by  no  means  despicable.  The  king's  father,  for  his  day 
and  generation,  was  no  mean  politician ;  and  now  that 
he  had  begun  to  feel  the  fascination  of  learning,  Otu's  craft 
and  ability  asserted  themselves.  He  first  attempted  to 
persuade  the  missionaries  not  to  teach  any  one  else  the 
art  of  writing  ;  in  this,  of  course,  he  failed.  He  then  deter- 
mined to  write  better  than  any  one  else,  and  in  this  he 
succeeded.  In  an  official  letter  to  the  Directors,  signed 
by  John  Eyre,  who  had  succeeded  Jefferson  as  Secretary, 
and  dated  July  29,  1H05,  reference  is  made  to  Pomare's 
new  accomplishment,  '  Enclosed  is  a  short  letter  from  Po- 
mare. The  writing  is  the  king's,  the  diction  is  not,  but 
he  has  the  idea  of  the  meaning  of  each  sentence.     Should 


i86  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL 

it  please  the  Lord  to  spare  him  there  is  some  hope  that 
he  will,  in  a  few  years,  make  a  tolerable  proficiency  in 
the  English  tongue,  as  he  feels  his  deficiency  in  this,  and 
is  very  desirous  of  applying  himself  to  the  study  of  it.' 
On  March  ii,  1806,  Pomare  sent  the  following  letter  to 
the  missionaries  : — 

'Friends, 

'  Give  me  the  room  above  ;  the  room  that  belonged 
to  Mr.  Shelly,  give  to  me  for  a  writing  place.  Let  the 
room  below  be  for  Tessier,  and  that  above  for  me.  If 
all  agreed  to  by  you,  make  up  this  my  speech ;  if  agreed 
by  you,  write  that  I  may  know  your  speech. 

'  Pomare,  King.' 

Naturally  enough,  they  objected  to  giving  the  king 
a  room  in  their  own  house  ;  but  they  finally  built  him  a 
small  plastered  house,  in  which  he  could  study  as  often 
and  as  long  as  he  pleased,  and  later  on  we  shall  see  some 
proofs  of  his  advance  in  scholarship. 

On  June  21,  1806,  the  queen  died,  in  consequence,  the 
missionaries  believed,  of  an  attempt  to  produce  abortion. 
She  thus  became  one  of  the  many  victims  of  the  savage 
licentious  practices  of  Tahiti. 

'  She  was  (we  suppose)  about  twenty-three  or  twenty-four 
years  old  ;  her  person  was  of  the  middle  stature,  of  a  deli- 
cate constitution  ;  affable  in  her  behaviour.  She  possessed 
little  more  than  the  name  of  queen,  having  no  authority. 
All  the  children  she  has  had  have  been  killed,  as  it  is  said 
they  were  by  common  men.  Owo,  her  mother,  Edea, 
Taepoto  the  chief  of  Aemeo,  and  two  other  women, 
according  to  the  custom  of  Tahaete,  cut  their  heads  with 
sharks'  teeth,  and  lamented  over  the  deceased.  The  king 
appeared  afflicted,  as  also  some  of  the  people  about  him. 
Tn  the  afternoon  the  body  was  put  on  board  a  canoe,  and 
taken  to  Pare,  there  to  be  put  up  on  a  scaffold.  The  king, 
Edea,  Owo,  and  all  their  attendants,  went  also  to  Pare, 
there  (it  is  said)  to  remain  some  time,  to  mourn,  and  perform 
their  last  piece  of  respect  for  the  deceased.     The  family  of 


THE   SECOND   POST  L\   TEN    YEARS  187 

Pomare  is  nearly  extinct :  there  is  but  one  woman  on  the 
island  that  the  king  can  take  to  wife,  so  as  to  preserve 
issue  ;  her  name  is  Vahaene  Morea,  belonging  to  Tehohu's 
family  of  Hedea  :  she,  it  is  said,  is  ill,  and  it  is  likely  that 

the  king  will  not  take  her All  the  articles  that  the 

queen  used,  and  is  supposed  to  have  had  a  particular  regard 
to,,  which  were  not  otherwise  disposed  of  during  her  life, 
have  been  put  in  the  Marae- where  she  is  put  up,  and,  to 
prevent  them  being  taken  away  and  used,  they  are  broken 
to  pieces,  or  otherwise  spoiled  ;  such  as  her  cups  she  ate 
out  of,  umette,  combs,  and  a  tomahawk,  baskets,  &c. :  also 
all  her  cloth  was  put  about  the  body,  which  is  put  in  a  house 
made  for  the  purpose,  covered  round  the  side  with  a  fine 
matting,  and  erected  about  8  feet  high,  supported  by  six 
posts,  and  enclosed  with  a  neat  reed  fence  about  24  feet 
square,  the  inside  covered  with  clean  grass.  Her  relatives, 
at  particular  seasons,  take  her  a  small  portion  of  food, 
which  is  laid  near  the  corpse,  and  a  short  prayer  said  over, 
intimating,  that  there  is  fish,  uru,  cocoa-nut,  water,  &c.,  for 
her  to  eat  ;  this  is  called  tojcmaha,  and  which  custom  is 
commonly  used  by  the  friends  of  the  deceased,  having 
a  notion  that  they  come  and  cat  the  spirit  which  is  supposed 
to  be  in  the  food.' 

This  queen  is  the  central  figure  in  the  picture  of  the 
cession  of  Matavai  in  1797,  and  is  represented  seated,  in 
Tahiti  fashion,  on  the  shoulders  of  one  of  her  stalwart 
bearers. 

On  November  25,  1806,  letters  and  stores  for  the  mission, 
which  had  been  several  years  on  the  way,  finally  reached 
Tahiti  in  the  sloop  Hawkesbury,  which  had  been  specially 
chartered  for  the  purpose  by  Mr.  Marsden.  This  was  only 
the  second  ofTficial  communication  which  the  mission  had 
received  ;  the  other  being  by  the  Royal  Admiral  in  1801. 
Vessels  had  frequently  touched  at  Tahiti,  and  letters  had 
been  sent  home  by  them.  None  of  these  on  leaving  Port 
Jackson  had  been  certain  that  they  could  call  at  Tahiti, 
and  so  the  stores  and  letters  accumulated  there  year  by 
year.     Mr.  Marsden  did  all  in  his  power,  but  the  cost  and 


i88  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOH  ' 

the  scarcity  of  vessels  greatly  hampered  him.  This  lack  of 
direct  communication  with  home  was  a  sore  trial  to  the 
missionaries,  and,  not  unnaturally,  very  often  a  cause  of 
great  depression. 

Among  the  letters  was  one  from  the  Directors  addressed 
specially  to  Pomare.  It  was  carefully  translated  into 
Tahitian,  then  read  to  the  king  on  December  lo,  and 
handed  to  him  in  both  original  and  translation.  On 
January  i,  1807,  he  sent  an  answer.  It  was  composed 
entirely  by  himself ;  it  was  translated  into  English  by  the 
missionaries,  and  then  Pomare  himself  copied  the  English 
and  his  copy  was  sent  to  London  with  the  original.  The 
letter  from  the  missionaries,  enclosing  it  to  the  Directors, 
states,  '  Respecting  what  credit  is  to  be  given  to  his 
majesty  for  his  large  professions  your  own  judgment  will 
easily  determine  ;  only,  we  observe,  that  though  the  king 
shows  us  every  outward  respect,  yet  we  cannot  say  that  he 
has  hitherto  manifested  any  inclination  to  receive  instruc- 
tion in  the  things  of  God.'  As  this  was  the  first  letter 
received  from  a  heathen  chieftain  by  the  Directors  it 
deserves  to  be  quoted  in  full. 

'  Matavae,  Otahete,  January  ist,  1807. 
'  Friends, 

'  I  wish  you  every  blessing  friends  in  your  residence 
in  your  country,  with  success  in  teaching  this  bad  land, 
this  foolish  land,  this  wicked  land,  this  land  which  is 
ignorant  of  good,  this  land  that  knoweth  not  the  true  God, 
this  regardless  land. 

'  Friends,  I  wish  you  health  and  prosperity,  may  I  also 
live,  &  may  Jehovah  save  us  all. 

'  Friends  with  respect  to  your  letter  you  wrote  to  me, 
I  have  this  to  say  to  you,  that  your  business  with  me,  and 
your  wishes  I  fully  consent  to,  and  shall  consequently 
banish  Oro,  and  send  him  to  Raeatea. 

*  Friends  I  do  therefore  believe  and  shall  obey  your 
word. 

'  PViends    I    hope   you  also  will  consent  to  my  request, 


THE   DEATH   OE  JEFFERSON  189 

which  is  this,  I  wish  you  to  send  a  great  number  of  men, 
women  and  children  here. 

'  Friends  send  also  property,  and  cloth  for  us,  and  we  also 
will  adopt  English  customs. 

'  Friends  send  also  plenty  of  Muskets  and  Powder  for 
wars  are  frequent  in  our  country.  Should  I  be  killed,  you 
will  have  nothing  in  Tahete :  do  not  come  here  when 
I  am  dead.  Tahete  is  a  regardless  country,  and  should 
I  die  with  sickness,  do  not  come  here.  This  also  I  wish, 
that  you  would  send  me  all  the  curious  things  that  you 
have  in  England.  Also  send  me  everything  necessary  for 
writing.  Paper,  Ink,  and  Pens  in  abundance,  let  no  writing 
utensil  be  wanting. 

''  Friends  I  have  done,  and  have  nothing  at  all  more  to 
ask  you  for.  As  for  your  desire  to  instruct  Tahete,  "'tis  what 
I  fully  acquiesce  in.  'Tis  a  common  thing  for  people  not  to 
understand  at  first,  but  your  object  is  good,  and  I  fully 
consent  to  it,  and  shall  cast  off  all  evil  customs. 

'  What  I  say  is  truth,  and  no  lie,  it  is  the  real  truth. 

'  This  is  all  I  have  to  write,  I  have  done. 

'  Friends  write  to  mc,  that  I  may  know  what  }'ou  have 
to  say. 

'  I  wish  you  life  and  every  blessing. 
'  May  I  also  live  and  may  Jehovah  save  us  all, 

'  POMARE,  King  of  Tahete,  &c.,  &c. 
'  For  my  friends, 

'  The  Missionary  Society, 
'  London.' 

During  1807  the  daily  routine  was  pursued — itinerating, 
seeking  to  interest  and  instruct  the  young,  and  preaching 
to  the  natives.  Other  changes  had  taken  place  in  the 
mission  staff.  Shelley  and  his  wife  retired  from  the  mission 
in  March,  i8c6,  and  returned  to  Port  Jackson.  He  after- 
wards became  commander  of  a  small  trading  vessel.  On 
September  25,  1807,  the  greatest  personal  loss  which  the 
mission  had  so  far  sustained  occurred  in  the  death  of 
Jefferson.     He  was  one  of  the  few  men  in  the  company  on 


I90  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOIL  ' 

board  the  Duff  in  1796  who  had  enjoyed  the  benefits  of 
a  good  training.  Many  letters  from  his  pen  are  preserved 
in  the  Society's  archives,  and  they  are  written  in  a  beautiful 
hand,  and  are  correct  in  style  and  spelling — in  these  respects 
a  great  contrast  to  many  others  sent  from  Tahiti  at  the 
same  time.  He  was  an  ordained  minister  and  a  man  of 
independent  thought.  During  the  voyage  of  the  Duff  his 
leanings  to  the  Arminian  view  brought  upon  him  the  con- 
demnation of  his  Calvinistic  companions  ^.  Such,  however, 
was  his  quiet  power  that  at  Tahiti  he  became  the  Chairman 
of  Committee,  and,  so  far  as  one  man  could  be,  was  the 
responsible  head  of  the  mission.  He  never  showed  the 
least  irresolution  or  sign  of  faltering  in  March,  1798;  he 
never  succumbed  to  any  of  the  many  temptations  to  which 
he  was  daily  exposed,  and  which  proved  so  fatal  to  some  of 
his  co-workers ;  he,  next  to  Nott,  obtained  the  greatest 
mastery  over  the  language  ;  he  retained  his  office  of  Chair- 
man until  ill-health  compelled  him  to  resign  ;  and  to  his 
guiding  hand,  and  holy  influence,  much  of  the  ultimate 
success  of  the  mission  was  due. 

'  Death  was  not  to  him,'  his  colleagues  wrote  home,  '  the 
king  of  terrors  ;  he  had  been  for  a  long  time  past  waiting 
for  and  desiring  his  dismission  from  a  sinful  and  diseased 
body,  yet  often  expressed  a  thankful  acquiescence  in  the 
will  of  God  ;  and  though  he  did  not  experience  any  extra- 
ordinary raptures  of  joy,  he  in  general,  for  a  considerable 
time  past,  enjoyed  a  settled  peace  of  conscience,  and  a  firm 
persuasion  of  his  interest  in  Christ.  Some  of  his  last  words 
were,  "  Comfortable,  comfortable  !  Sweet,  sweet !  Glory, 
glory  be  to  Him!"  ' 

'  On  a  visit  to  Matavai,'  writes  Ellis  ",  '  in  the  early  part 
of  1821,  conducted  by  Mr.  Nott,  I  made  a  pilgrimage  to  his 
grave.  I  felt  in  connection  with  the  change  that  has  since 
taken  place,  that  he  had  indeed  desired  to  see  the  things 
that  I  beheld,  but  he  had  died  without  witnessing,  on  earth, 
the  gladdening  sight ;  and  that,  in  reference  to  his  unre- 

'  .See  pp.  48,  49.  ^  Polynesian  Researches,  ii.  p.  78  (1832). 


A    SOUTH  SEA    TRAGEDY  191 

mitted  exertions,  I  and  my  junior  companions  had  entered 
into  his  labours,  and  were  reaping  the  harvest  for  which  he 
had  toiled.' 

So  far  as  we  know,  there  is  no  portrait  of  Jefferson 
extant,  but  he  is  depicted,  standing  immediately  behind 
Captain  Wilson,  in  the  picture  of  the  cession  of  Matavai. 

In  May,  1807,  the  loss  caused  by  the  desertion  in  T797  of 
the  only  doctor  who  had  been  connected  with  the  mission 
was  remedied  by  the  arrival  of  a  Mr.  Warner,  who  had 
received  a  special  medical  training.  The  gain  of  his  pre- 
sence was  immediately  counterbalanced  by  the  loss  of 
Mr.  Youl.  who  relinquished  the  work  and  returned  to  Port 
Jackson  in  the  vessel  which  had  brought  Warner.  Tahiti 
was  again  on  the  eve  of  troublous  times,  and  the  second 
doctor  was  fated  to  be  of  but  little  more  service  than  the 
first. 

Very  shortly  after  Jefferson's  death  Nott  and  Hay  ward 
took  the  opportunity  of  a  passage  to  Huahine  in  the  ship 
Paramatta,  and  then  made  the  first  evangelistic  tour  ever 
accomplished  in  that  island,  and  also  in  Raiatea  and  Bora- 
bora.  There  was  an  outbreak  of  civil  war  between  the 
king's  party  and  the  people  of  Atahuru,  in  which  the  latter 
were  defeated  ;  then  illness  on  the  part  of  Pomare  brought 
about  peace  for  a  time.  But  the  king's  increasing  unpopu- 
larity made  it  appear  more  and  more  probable  that  another 
very  serious  struggle  was  approaching.  In  October,  1808, 
Pomare  sent  the  missionaries  a  letter,  warning  them  to  be 
on  their  guard.  Day  by  day  the  clouds  became  darker, 
the  hearts  of  the  little  company  more  anxious,  and  the 
outlook  more  hopeless.  On  October  25  the  brig  Perse- 
verance from  Port  Jackson  anchored  in  Matavai  Bay.  She 
brought  back  Mr.  Elder,  who  early  in  the  year  had  gone  to 
the  colony  in  search  of  a  wife.  In  this  quest  he  had  been 
successful.  He  had  married  a  Miss  Smith,  the  daughter  of 
a  respectable  settler,  who  *  had  gone  out  free,'  and  she  her- 
self was  highly  spoken  of  by  every  one  from  the  governor 
downwards.  Upon  October  27  the  captain  of  the  Perse- 
verance  shot    himself   in    his    cabin,    and    several    of    the 


192  '  THE  NIGHT  OF  TOH  ' 

missionaries  went  on  board  at  the  request  of  the  ship's 
officers  to  investigate  the  sad  affair.  What  was  their 
dismay  and  grief  to  find  that  the  cause  of  the  fatal  deed 
was  a  violent  passion  for  Mr.  Elder's  wife.  The  latter,  on 
hearing  of  the  tragedy,  fell  into  a  state  of  frenzy,  in  which 
she  appears  to  have  continued  for  many  months.  It  is 
hard  to  conceive  of  a  more  terrible  combination  of  evils 
than  this  which  thus  afflicted  Mr.  Elder,  and  through  him 
the  whole  community.  It  also  affords  a  further  illustra- 
tion of  the  strain  exercised  upon  the  character  by  the 
conditions  of  life  at  that  day  and  in  that  moral  atmo- 
sphere. 

Once  before,  in  1802,  the  mission  had  been  saved  by  the 
opportune  presence  of  European  vessels.  The  arrival  of 
the  Perseverance,  notwithstanding  the  awful  shadow  which 
it  brought  upon  the  mission,  proved  to  be  providential. 
On  November  6  the  long-threatened  rebellion  against 
Pom  are  broke  out,  and  at  its  head  was  a  chief  named  Tauta, 
who  had  long  acted  as  his  prime  minister,  and  who  was  one 
of  the  ablest  and  most  powerful  men  on  the  island.  The 
Perseverance  was  detained  for  forty-eight  hours.  Anxious 
consultations  were  held.  Nott  and  Scott,  alone  and 
unarmed,  went  to  the  camp  of  the  rebels,  and  attempted  to 
make  peace.  They  were  received  kindly,  but  requested 
and  advised  to  leave  the  island.  In  this  condition  of  affairs 
the  missionaries  were  all  of  opinion  that  to  remain  was 
dangerous  to  life,  and  that  any  continuance  of  useful  work 
was  for  the  present  hopeless.  Consequently  all  except 
Nott,  Hayward,  Scott,  and  Wilson,  who  were  unmarried, 
sailed  in  the  Perseverance,  and  landed,  hoping  to  found 
a  new  mission,  on  Huahine,  one  of  the  Society  Islands, 
whither  Idia  had  gone  some  short  time  before.  On  Decem- 
ber 22,  1808,  a  great  battle  was  fought  in  Tahiti  ;  Pomare, 
under  an  assurance  of  victory  given  to  him  by  Metia,  the 
prophet  of  Oro,  attacked  the  rebels.  He  was  defeated,  and 
left  on  the  field  several  of  his  finest,  warriors,  and  many  of 
his  muskets.  The  whole  district  of  Matavai  was  ravaged 
by  the  triumphant  rebels,  the  mi.ssion  houses  were  plun- 


THE  NIGHT  AT  ITS  DARKEST  193 

dered,  whatever  could  not  be  carried  away  was  destroyed, 
and  whatever  could  be  adapted  to  warlike  use  joyfully 
seized  for  that  purpose.  The  remaining  missionaries  fled 
to  Eimeo,  whither  Pomare  soon  followed  them. 

Thus,  apparently,  in  failure  and  ruin  ended  the  first 
mission  undertaken  by  the  Society.  It  had  been  born  in 
the  first  vigour  of  a  great  spiritual  revival  which  brought 
together  men  of  different  Churches  and  divergent  views. 
Three  great  expeditions — the  voyages  of  the  Duff  in  1796 
and  1798,  and  the  voyage  of  the  Royal  Admiral  in  1800 — 
had  been  equipped  for  its  service,  and  large  sums  spent  in 
its  prosecution.  A  considerable  number  of  men  and  women 
had  given  themselves  in  all  the  fervour  of  their  religious 
life  to  this  hard  service,  and  although  here,  as  elsewhere  in 
God's  great  vineyard,  '  many  were  called  but  few  chosen/ 
yet  no  mission  which  possessed  and  developed  such  workers 
as  Nott,  Jefferson,  Hayvvard,  Bicknell,  Henry,  Scott,  and 
others,  could  trace  the  secret  of  failure  to  its  agents.  The 
mission  had  brought  the  Gospel  face  to  face  with  a  cruel, 
debasing,  licentious  heathenism,  and  to  all  outward  seeming 
had  proved  only  that  here  it  was  not  '  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation.'  The  zeal  of  home  supporters  had  slackened, 
the  prophecies  of  candid  friends  seemed  justified,  the  voices 
that  urged  the  abandonment  of  the  mission  on  the  one 
hand,  and  which  had  always  pronounced  the  project  Uto- 
pian on  the  other,  became  clamant.  The  flight  of  Nott 
and  his  companions  to  Eimeo  seemed  the  full  and  final 
admission  of  complete  and  disastrous  failure.  The  '  night 
of  toil '  was  at  its  darkest,  and  was  for  yet  a  season  so  to 
continue.  But  this  was  destined  in  the  good  providence  of 
God  to  immediately  precede  a  dawn  which  was  to  shine 
more  and  more  towards  the  perfect  day. 

[Authorities. — The  Original  Journals  and  Letters  of  the  Missionaries, 
1798-1807.  Much  of  this  material  has  been  j^rintcd  in  Transaciions  of  the 
Missionary  Society,  vols,  i-iii.  London,  1S03-1813;  Annual  Reports,  179S- 
1807;  Evangelical  Magazine,  1798-1807;  An  Authentic  A'arrative  0/  Four 
}  ears'  Residence  at  Tongataboo,  by  G.  V[eeson],  London,  1815.] 


I. 


CHAPTER    V 

THE    FIRST   GREAT   VICTORY 

The   missionaries   who   had    retired    to    Huahine   were 
joined    after    Pomare's    defeat    by   Hayward,    Scott,    and 
Wilson.     Nott   alone    remained    at    Eimeo   with    Pomare. 
On  October  26,   1809,  all   at   Huahine,   except   Hayward, 
retired  to  Port  Jackson.     Disappointing  to  all  concerned 
as  this  was,  the  only  action  which,  in  the  light  of  all  the 
circumstances,    seems    open    to    criticism    was    the    early 
abandonment   of  work  on    Huahine.     It   was    evident    to 
all   that,  for  a  time  at  least,  nothing  could    be  done    on 
Tahiti,  where,  as  events  proved,  for  the  next  three  years 
the  rebels  were  all-powerful.     The  chief  influence  at  work 
upon  the  minds  of  those  who  retired  to  Port  Jackson  was 
a  conviction  that  the  Directors  in  London  had  practically 
abandoned  the  mission,  and  left  them  to  shift  for  them- 
selves.     This    by    itself   would    probably    not    have    been 
sufficient,  but  it  was  accentuated   by  the  necessary  flight 
from  Matavai,  the  apparent  unfruitfulness   of  their  years 
of  labour,  and  the  gloomy  outlook  generally.     Once  only 
in  the  course  of  nine  years,  viz.  in  the  year  1806,  had  they 
received    letters    and    stores    from    the    Directors.     There 
were  many  reasons  for  this,  but  at  the  same  time  doubt 
as    to  the   ultimate  success  of  the   mission  had   to   some 
extent  paralyzed  the  home  executive. 

The  decision  to  cease  work  was  taken  on  April  14, 
1809,  but  the  opportunity  to  leave  did  not  occur  until 
October  17,  when  the  brig  Hibernia,  Captain  Campbell, 
touched  at  Huahine.  The  missionaries  held  some  anxious 
meetings,  decided  that  nothing  had  happened  since  April  34 


NOTT'S  FRIENDSHIP  WITH  POM  A  RE  195 

to  alter  their  views,  that  another  chance  of  leaving  the  island 
might  not  offer  for  many  months,  and  finally  arranged  with 
the  captain  for  a  passage  to  Port  Jackson.  Mr.  Hayward 
alone  remained,  chiefly  because  he  did  not  care  to  go, 
as  the  Hibernia  intended,  by  way  of  the  Fiji  Islands,  and 
he  finally  rejoined  Xott  at  Eimeo.  The  others  sailed  in 
the  Hibernia  on  October  26,  1^09,  and  after  a  very 
dangerous  and  trying  voyage,  in  the  course  of  which 
the  ship  actually  struck  upon  a  reef  and  was  very  nearl}^ 
wrecked  in  the  Fiji  Islands,  reached  Port  Jackson, 
February  17,  18 10. 

Nott  meanwhile  remained  on  Eimeo  with  Pomare.  This 
was  a  time  of  discipline  for  the  king.  He  had  been 
devoted  to  his  idolatrous  customs,  and  as  careful  as  ever 
in  observing  all  the  hideous  and  savage  ceremonies  of  his 
creed.  Yet  success  had  not  attended  the  efforts  which  he 
made  to  regain  his  authority.  This  fact  possibly  tended  to 
shake  his  faith  in  his  own  gods.  Then  Nott's  influence, 
his  constant  readiness  to  speak  the  word  in  season,  must 
have  been  a  strong  force  impelling  the  king  in  the  direction 
of  Christianity.  Their  acquaintance  and  friendship  was  now 
of  over  ten  years'  standing,  and  they  together  had  shared 
sunshine  and  storm,  victory  and  defeat.  Further,  Pomare's 
enforced  leisure  gave  him  time  for  introspection,  and  it  is 
evident  from  his  after  conduct  that  already  his  conscience 
was  at  work.  Adversity  was  beginning  to  tame  his  hard 
and  savage  heart,  and  it  was  after  he  had  passed  through 
these  experiences  that  the  missionaries  returned. 

Mr.  Bicknell,  who  meanwhile  had  been  to  England, 
returned  with  his  wife  in  July,  1811.  He  lived  for  some 
time  in  the  same  house  with  Pomare,  who  '  spent  much  of 
his  time  in  reading  and  writing,  in  conversation,  and  in 
earnest  inquiry  about  God,  about  the  way  of  acceptance 
with  Him  through  Jesus  Christ,  and  sometimes  spoke  in 
terms  astonishing  even  to  the  missionaries  themselves  \' 

This  was  the  state  of  affairs  down  to  and  including  the 
first  half  of  that  most  eventful  year,  181 2.     Gradually  all 

^   Ellis,  Polynesian  Researches,  i.  p.  8y. 
O  2 


196  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

the  missionaries  returned  except  Warner,  Eyre,  and  Tessier  ; 
while  Davies,  Scott,  and  Hay  ward  married  in  the  colony 
and  brought  back  their  wives  with  them.  Evangelistic 
work  was  actively  prosecuted  on  Eimeo,  and  a  mission 
planned  to  Raiatea.  But,  when  telling  later  on  the  story 
of  this  wonderful  time,  the  little  band  had,  in  their  own 
phrase,  '  to  sing  of  mercy  and  of  judgment,'  for  on  July  28 
Mrs.  Henry  died,  on  September  4  Mrs.  Davies,  and  on 
October  4  Mrs.  Hayward. 

The  first  of  these  devoted  and  courageous  women 
had  come  out  in  the  Duff  in  1796,  and  had  shared 
the  fortunes  of  the  mission  from  the  first.  She  had 
exhibited  courage  and  devotion  and  self-sacrifice  of  a  very 
high  order.  Being  very  much  younger  than  Mrs.  Eyre, 
she  was  able  to  render  more  effective  service,  and  is 
entitled  justly  to  the  first  place  in  the  noble  roll  of  women 
workers  in  Polynesian  missions.  It  is  true  that  she 
accompanied  her  husband  to  Port  Jackson  in  the  panic- 
stricken  flight  of  1798,  while  Mrs.  Eyre  remained.  But 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry  soon  returned,  and  from  that  time 
until  her  death  she  was  most  active  in  the  care  of  her  own 
large  household,  and  in  the  discharge  of  the  many  mission 
duties  which  fell  to  her  share.  She  is  represented  with 
her  husband  on  the  extreme  right  of  the  picture  of  the 
cession  of  Matavai^  The  changes  of  the  last  three  years 
and  the  sad  losses  just  referred  to  had  reduced  the  mission 
staff  to  seven  men — Nott,  Hayward,  Bicknell,  Henry,  Scott, 
Davies,  and  Wilson.  Nott  had  been  to  Port  Jackson  and 
there  married  Miss  Turner,  one  of  the  four  '  godly  young 
women'  sent  out  to  Sydney  by  the  Directors  in  1809.  The 
other  three  had  become  the  wives  respectively  of  Davies, 
Scott,  and  Hayward. 

The  first  marked  sign  of  success  in  their  great  enterprise 
came  to  cheer  the  hearts  of  the  missionaries  in  1812,  when 
Pomare,  who  had  recently  married  Terito,  the  second 
daughter  of  Tamatoa,  chief  of  Raiatea,  signified  his  desire 
for  Christian  baptism.    This  he  did  first  in  conversation  with 

'  See  p.  140. 


POMARE  DESIRES  BAPTISM  197 

Mr.  Nott.  who  used  to  say  in  after  years  that  for  a  time  he 
dared  not  tell  his  brethren,  lest  the  failure  of  the  precious 
hope  should  entail  disappointment.  Pomare  had  some  time 
before  this  lost  all  confidence  in  the  idols  of  his  fathers. 
On  one  occasion  he  had  greatly  scandalized  his  attendants 
by  ordering  a  turtle — a  creature  always  hitherto  held  sacred 
to  the  gods — to  be  cooked  for  his  own  use  without  offering 
any  part  of  it  to  the  gods.  His  court  stood  round  him  as 
he  ate,  refusing  to  touch  a  morsel  themselves,  in  much  the 
same  frame  of  mind  as  the  barbarians  around  Paul  on 
Melita  when  the  viper  fastened  on  his  hand.  The  story 
of  this  time  cannot  better  be  told  than  in  the  words  of 
a  letter  sent  home  signed  by  all  the  seven,  and  dated 
'Island  of  Eimeo,  October  21,  1812': — 

'On  the  1 8th  of  July  Pomare  came  to  us  and  offered 
himself  a  candidate  for  Christian  baptism,  declaring  it  his 
fixed  purpose  and  determination  to  cleave  to  Jehovah  the 
true  God  and  us  his  people,  expressing  his  desire  and 
willingness  to  receive  further  instructions  in  the  things  of 
God,  and  requesting  us  to  pray  for  him.  He  gave  us  to 
understand  that  this  resolution  and  step  he  had  taken  was 
the  result  of  long  and  increasing  conviction  of  the  truth 
and  excellency  of  our  religion. 

'  He   said    he  had   been    endeavouring  to  persuade  his 
father-in-law,  Tamatoa.  and  Tapoa  (the  two  principal  chiefs 
of  the  Leeward  Islands)  to  take  the  step  he  was  taking ; 
but   that  they   told   him   he   might    do   as  he   pleased,  as 
for   them  they   would   cleave  to  Oro,  which  he   observed 
was  cleaving  to  Satan  ;  and  said  that  if  no  one  else  would 
hear  us  or  embrace  our  religion  he  would,  as  he  desired  to 
be  happy  after  death,  and  be  saved  in  the  judgment  day. 
On  our  observing  that  we  did  not  cease  to  pray  to  God  for 
him,  and  that  it  would  rejoice  us  much  to  see  him  sincerely 
and  truly  given  up  in  heart  to  God  and  Christ,  and  that  if 
that  was  the  case  he  might  then  be  baptized,  he  replied, 
*  that  we  could  not  know  his  heart  nor  he  ours  ;  but  that 
He  who  made  us  men  knew  our  hearts  and  whether  we 
spoke  truth  or  falsehood  to  each  other."     Indeed  he  intro- 


igS  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

duced  the  subject  at  first  by  saying,  "  You  do  not  know 
the  thoughts  of  nny  heart,  nor  I  yours,  but  God  does." 
We  informed  him  that  it  was  customary  for  those  who 
offered  themselves  as  candidates  for  baptism  from  among 
the  heathen  to  be  for  some  time  further  instructed  in  the 
things  of  God,  and  their  conduct  inspected  into,  that  it 
might  be  known  whether  they  had  truly  forsaken  every 
evil  way,  and  were  really  turned  in  heart  to  God  and 
Christ,  before  they  were  baptized  ;  all  which  he  seemed 
to  approve  of,  observing  that  he  was  willing  to  do  as  we 
thought  proper,  and  that  he  left  the  affair  of  his  baptism 
entirely  with  us  as  to  the  time. 

'  That  you,  our  Honoured  Directors,  may  form  a  judg- 
ment for  yourselves  of  the  present  state  of  his  mind,  we 
send  you  with  this  two  of  his  late  letters  with  a  translation 
of  them.  You  will  learn  from  them  the  then  state  of 
Taheite,  in  which  there  has  been  little  alteration  since. 
Though  he  has  got  a  footing  there,  his  regaining  the 
sovereignty  of  that  island  appears  to  us  a  matter  very 
doubtful.  However,  this  we  well  know,  that  He  whom  we 
trust  has  humbled  him  and  led  him  to  cast  his  honours  at 
His  feet,  can  exalt  him  to  greater  power  and  honour  than  ever 
he  possessed  ;  and  we  doubt  not  will  do  it  in  due  time,  if  it 
be  more  for  His  glory  and  the  good  of  His  cause  here. 
There  are  others  whom  we  trust  the  Lord  is  drawing  to 
Himself  from  among  this  people.' 

On  August  13,  1812,  Pomare  had  gone  over  to  Tahiti,  at 
the  instigation  of  two  of  the  chiefs,  in  order  to  attempt  the 
restoration  of  his  authority.  The  two  letters  referred  to 
above,  written  by  him,  run  as  follows  : — 


Papeite  Taheite, 

Friday,  Sept.  25,  1812. 
'  Dear  Friends, 

'  May  Jehovah  and  Jesus  Christ,  may  the  Three-One, 
our  only  trust  and  Saviour,  bless  you  !  May  my  soul  be 
.saved  by  Jesus  Christ!    May  the  anger  of  Jehovah  towards 


POMARE'S   LETTERS,   1812  199 

me  be  appeased,  who  am  a  wicked  man,  guilty  of  accumu- 
lated crimes — of  rcgardlessness  and  ignorance  of  the  true 
God,  and  of  an  obstinate  perseverance  in  wickedness  !    May 
Jehovah  also  pardon  my  foolishness,  unbelief,  and  rejection 
of  the  truth  !     May  Jehovah  give  me  his  good  Spirit  to 
sanctify  my  heart,  that  I  may  love  what  is  good,  and  that 
I  may  be  enabled  to  put  awa\'  ail  my  evil  customs,  and 
become  one  of  his   people,  and    be   saved    through  Jesus 
Christ  our  only  Saviour  !     Yoii  indeed  will  be  saved,  you 
are  become  the  people  of  God  ;    but  /  may  be  banished 
to  hell ;  God  may  not  regard  me  :   I  am  a  wicked  man,  and 
my  sins  are  great  and  accumulated  (or  collected  together). 
But  O   that  we  may  all   be  saved  through  Jesus  Christ ! 
May  the  anger  of  God  towards  us  all  be  appeased,  for  all 
of  us  have  been  disobedient  to  him  as  our  Lord  and  Master. 
Look  at  the  beasts,  they  are  all  obedient  to  man  as  t/ieir 
lord    and    master ;    but    we    have    not    obeyed    otir    Lord 
and  Master.     Surely,  we  are  fools !     May  the  Three-One 
save  us  I ' 

To  the  Missionaries,  Uaeva,  Moorea  [Eimeo]. 

'  My  dear  Friends, 

'  War  will  perhaps  soon  commence  in  the  district  of 
Papara :  We  are  listening  to  the  reports,  and  considering 
to  find  out  whether  they  are  true  or  not.  Should  war  not 
take  place,  it  will  be  through  fear  of  us.  Enometua  is  at 
the  head  of  one  party,  and  Arutapoea  and  his  brother  Tate 
at  the  head  of  the  other.  Should  Lnometua  be  banished 
from  Papara,  all  Taheite  will  be  involved  in  war.  In  this 
case  I  shall  take  Enometua's  part,  and  the  Poreonuu, 
which  includes  all  the  districts  from  the  Isthmus  to 
Teparrui,  will  join  me.  Papara  and  part  of  Atehuru  are 
for  banishing  Enometua  ;  but  Taearapu  and  Faa,  and  part 
of  Atehuru,  wish  to  be  neuter.  We  are  aware  that  this  war 
is  on  our  account,  and  designed  to  involve  us.  Perhaps 
you  do  not  know  Enometua,  nor  Arutapoea  the  brother  of 
Tate,  who  came  from  Raiatea  with  Tapoa  and  part}'. 


200  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

'  Tapoa  is  at  the  point  of  death  ;  he  can  eat  nothing, 
and  knows  nobody  ^ 

'  I  am  also  ill  myself,  and  have  no  appetite  for  food. 
I  was  taken  ill  about  three  o'clock  on  Monday  morning 
last^.  My  affliction  is  great;  but  if  I  can  only  obtain 
God's  favour  before  I  die,  I  shall  count  myself  well  off. 
But,  O !  should  I  die  with  my  sins  unpardoned,  it  will  be 
ill  indeed  with  me.  O  !  may  my  sins  be  pardoned,  and  my 
soul  saved  through  Jesus  Christ !  And  may  Jehovah  regard 
me  before  I  die,  and  then  I  shall  rejoice,  because  I  have 
obtained  the  favour  of  Jehovah. 

'  May  Jehovah  and  Jesus  Christ  bless  us  all. 

'  POMARE.' 

We  continue  the  story  in  the  words  of  those  who 
lived  and  toiled  through  it.  The  next  letter  is  dated 
September  8,  1813  : — 

'Our  last  letter  to  you  was  dated  October,  1812,  and 
sent  by  the  way  of  Bengal.  Pomare  is  still  at  Taheite, 
and  exposed  to  many  and  strong  temptations,  particu- 
larly that  of  drinking :  however,  his  example,  in  publicly 
renouncing  the  idol  gods  and  religion  of  his  country, 
and  declaring  his  full  conviction  of  the  truth,  supe- 
riority, and  excellency  of  our  religion,  has  had  a  powerful 
influence  on  the  minds  of  many,  both  at  Taheite  and  this 
Island ;  convictions  stifled  years  ago,  and  instructions, 
as  we  thought,  entirely  thrown  away,  seem  now  to  take 
effect. 

'  Hearing  from  time  to  time,  that  there  was  a  stir  among 
some  of  the  people  at  Taheite,  Mr.  Scott  and  Mr.  Hayward 
went  over  to  inquire,  and  see  how  things  were  ;  they  soon 
found  that  things  of  a  favourable  nature  far  exceeded  their 
expectations,  a  prayer-meeting  had  been  instituted  in  the 
district  of  Paree,  without  our  knowledge,  or  any  interference 
whatever  ;    it    originated    with    two    of  our   old   servants, 

He  (lied  soon  after ;  and  was  a  great  loss  to  the  king's  interest. 
*  Jle  recovered  from  this  illness  soon  after. 


FIRST-FRUITS  AFTER   FIFTEEN  YEARS        201 

named  Oito  and  Tuaheine  :  these  had  enjoyed  the  means 
of  instruction  long  ago,  but  continued,  as  they  now  express 
it  themselves,  among  the  greatest  and  most  hardened 
sinners  in  the  place.  Oito  was  brought  under  strong 
convictions,  in  consequence  of  some  expressions  which  the 
king  had  made  use  of:  he  then  applied  to  Tuaheine  for 
instruction,  knowing  he  had  lived  long  with  us  ;  this  was 
the  means  of  deepening  the  impressions  on  his  mind,  they 
separated  from  their  companions,  often  conversed  together, 
and  retired  to  the  bush  to  pra}^  together  :  this  soon  excited 
the  observation  of  others,  many  mocked  and  derided,  but 
some  young  men  and  boys  joined  them,  and  agreed  to 
cast  off  their  gods  and  bad  customs,  keep  the  Sabbath, 
and  worship  Jehovah  alone.  These  formed  the  prayer- 
meeting  above  mentioned,  and  they  had  often,  amidst 
much  contempt,  met  together  to  pray,  before  the  arrival 
of  the  brethren  :  they  were  persuaded  to  come  over  to 
Eimeo,  to  be  near  us  for  the  purpose  of  further  instruction, 
and  attending  school  :  to  this  they  cheerfully  agreed. 
Two  of  the  brethren  having  made  the  tour  of  the  larger 
peninsula  of  Taheite,  for  the  purpose  of  preaching  to  the 
people,  returned  accompanied  by  the  two  men  above 
mentioned,  and  their  companions.  Previous  to  their 
arrival,  there  appeared  some  good  beginnings  here  in 
Eimeo,  among  our  domestics  and  others. 

'After  several  conversations  with  those  from  Taheite, 
and  others  that  appeared  desirous  of  instruction,  on  Sabbath- 
day,  July  25th,  at  the  close  of  a  public  meeting  for 
worship  in  the  native  language,  we  gave  out  there  would 
be  a  meeting  next  evening  different  from  any  we  had 
ever  had  here  before  ;  to  this  meeting  we  invited  all  that 
were  truly  desirous  of  being  instructed  in  the  word  of  the 
true  God  ;  all  that  really  and  sincerely  renounced  their 
false  gods,  and  desired  to  cast  away  all  their  evil  customs, 
all  that  were  willing  and  desirous  to  receive  Jehovah  for 
their  God,  and  Jesus  for  their  only  Saviour  and  atone- 
ment ;  all  such  we  invited  and  would  be  glad  to  sec  them 
next   evening  :    and   moreover,  that   we  would   write  their 


202  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

names  in  a  book  if  they  wished,  that  we  might  know  who 
they  were. 

'  When  the  time  appointed  arrived,  about  40  attended, 
and  after  prayer  and  singing,  in  the  native  language, 
and  an  appropriate  address,  by  Brother  Nott,  on  the 
design  of  the  meeting,  31  of  those  present  most  cheer- 
fully came  forward  to  have  their  names  put  down  as  of 
the  character  above  mentioned,  some  others  declined  it 
for  the  present,  and  we  pressed  no  one,  but  urged  upon 
them  all  attendance  on  the  means  of  instruction.  With 
these  whose  names  are  written  down,  we  have  had  several 
meetings  since,  beside  our  common  and  general  meetings 
for  the  instruction  of  the  natives,  and  have  had  the  satis- 
faction of  adding  since  11  more  to  their  number,  which 
make  in  all  42.  Among  these  last  are  the  young  chief  of 
Huaheine,  and  a  principal  Areoi,  who  is  also  a  priest. 

'  It  is  not  to  be  expected  that  all  these  will  turn  out 
well,  yet  in  some  of  them  we  found  much  satisfaction, 
and  really  think  them  proper  subjects  for  baptism  ;  yet 
we  would  not  do  anything  suddenly  and  rashly.  Some  of 
them  we  have  heard  engaging  in  prayer^  and  have  been 
astonished,  and  highly  pleased  with  the  propriety,  fluency, 
earnestness,  and  warmth  of  their  expressions.  Their  atten- 
dance on  the  means  of  instruction  has  been  hitherto 
pleasing  and  encouraging,  though  some  of  them  have 
already  a  large  share  of  derision  and  scorn. 

'  Our  school  prospers  of  late,  and  there  are  between 
40  and  50  attending  it,  chiefly  grown  people,  who  now 
begin  to  see  a  little  of  the  value  of  instruction.  We  are 
much  at  a  loss  for  want  of  Taheitean  books ;  the  spelling- 
book  printed  in  England  is  now  very  useful.  The  latter 
part  of  the  Scripture  history,  composed  some  years  ago, 
has  been  lately  examined,  corrected  and  enlarged,  with 
a  view  of  sending  it  to  the  Colony,  to  get  it  printed  at 
Sydney  if  possible,  as  we  want  something  of  the  kind 
very  much  for  the  use  of  the  school,  and  hope  the  expense 
will  not  be  great.  This  is  an  abridgment  of  the  four 
Evangelists,   and    Acts   of  the    Apostles,    containing   the 


BEGINNING   OF  BIBLE    TRANSLATION         203 

history  of  the  birth,  Hfe,  miracles,  sufferings,  death,  resur- 
rection, and  ascension  of  our  Lord,  the  commission  he 
gave  his  disciples,  and  their  proceedings  in  consequence 
of  it.  A  translation  also  of  the  Gospel  of  Luke  is  pretty 
far  advanced,  and  we  hope  to  get  it  ready  and  forwarded 
to  you  before  long,  that  it  may  be  printed  in  England.' 

The  last  sentence  of  this  letter  refers  to  the  beginning 
of  the  great  task  of  placing  the  complete  Bible  in  the 
hands  of  the  people  of  Tahiti.  Then,  as  now,  there  were 
those  at  home  who  thought  that  the  fii'st  duty  of  the 
missionary  was  to  give  the  natives  the  actual  words  of 
the  Bible  in  their  own  tongue.  Then,  as  now,  the  most 
capable  missionaries  felt  that  this  was  not  always  the  most 
useful  way  of  beginning.  Nott  and  Davies  and  the  others 
thought  it  well  to  begin  with  the  spelling-book  and  the 
brief  Catechism  and  the  summary  of  Old  and  New 
Testament  facts.  As  soon  as  the  natives  had  begun  to  be 
familiar  with  simple  Christian  facts  and  ideas,  they  gave 
them  the  exact  words  of  Scripture.  In  an  old  manuscript 
History  of  the  Tahitian  Mission,  preserved  in  the  Library 
of  the  Mission  House,  written  by  Mr.  Davies  himself  prior 
to  1^30,  and  revised  by  Henry  Nott,  the  following  sensible 
remarks  on  this  subject  occur.  They  apply  with  almost 
equal  force  to  every  other  field.  Some  of  the  Directors, 
it  appears,  have  rather  disapproved  of  the  missionaries 
making  a  selection  and  compilation  from  the  Scriptures 
of  the  Old  and  New  Testament  to  put  in  the  hands  of 
the  natives.  But  the  truth  is,  translation  of  the  Word 
of  God  into  this  uncultivated  language  appeared  to  the 
missionaries  a  work  of  much  difficulty,  and  much  diffidence 
was  felt,  lest  they  should  give  a  misrepresentation  of  the 
Word  of  God  under  the  name  of  a  translation.  By 
compiling  an  abstract,  such  as  the  Scripture  History,  the 
difficult  passages  were  avoided,  and  what  was  thought 
easy  of  translation  was  made  use  of,  leaving  the  others 
till  a  greater  acquaintance  with  the  language  and  its 
idioms  would  remove  some  of  the  difficulties  ;  which  atter- 
wards  was  found  to  be  the  case.'     Mr,  Burder,  in  an  official 


204  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

letter,  dated  December  19,  1815,  wrote:  'The  Directors 
would  earnestly  recommend  you  rather  to  print  parts  of 
the  Scriptures  themselves  than  any  human  composition 
formed  from  them.  They  think  this  by  far  better,  and 
that  the  natives  should  have  the  genuine  Word  of  God 
itself.'  Upon  this  the  missionaries  make  the  following 
pertinent  comments: — 'The  missionaries  thought  so  too, 
but  the  Directors  seemed  to  forget  the  cause  and  circum- 
stances of  engaging  in  the  compilation.  They  seem  to 
take  it  for  granted  it  was  from  choice  this  was  undertaken. 
The  missionaries  viewed  it  far  otherwise.  It  was  their 
conscientious  regard  for  the  Word  of  God  that  prevented 
them  from  a  professed  translation  of  a  particular  book, 
lest  they  should  corrupt  it  by  a  misrepresentation,  and 
they  are  fully  convinced  that  this  has  been  the  case  more 
or  less  in  most  early  and  hasty  translations.' 

A  letter  from  Tahiti  to  the  Directors,  dated  April  23, 
1 814,  continues  the  glad  story  of  success  and  progress  : — 

'  Our  people,  whose  names  are  written  down,  are,  in 
general,  constant  in  their  attendance  on  the  means  of  in- 
struction ;  exact  in  their  observance  of  the  Sabbath ;  often 
retire  for  secret  prayer  ;  and,  where  a  number  dwell  to- 
gether, have  family  prayer  in  their  houses.  They  are  very 
particular  in  asking  a  blessing  on  their  food,  for  which  they 
have  been  much  derided.  They  have  also  frequent  prayer- 
meetings  among  themselves  ;  and  are  known  among  the 
islanders  by  the  name  of  Pitre  Attia,  or,  praying  people; 
in  a  word,  they  are  greatly  altered  in  their  moral  conduct, 
trom  what  they  were  some  months  ago.  Some  of  them 
also  give  a  pleasing  evidence  that  a  change  of  mind  has 
taken  place— that  they  now  love  what  they  once  hated, 
and  that  they  now  hate  those  things  in  which  they  once 
delighted — that  they  are  desirous  of  having  their  sins 
pardoned,  and  their  hearts  renewed ;  that  they  appear 
sensible  they  have  an  evil  heart,  and  that  it  is  utterly  out 
of  their  power  to  make  it  good  ;  that  it  is  God  only  who 
can  ••  cause  good  things  to  grow  in  their  minds."' 

In     September,     18 14,     Nott     and      Hay  ward     visited 


RAPID  PROGRESS  IN  1814  205 

Huahine  and  Raiatea.  Their  report  was  that  '  the 
people  heard  with  attention,  and,  contrary  to  former 
practice  among  the  islanders,  assembled  to  hear  of  their 
own  accord.'  Pomare,  after  an  absence  of  nearly  two 
years,  had  returned  to  Eimeo  with  a  large  number  of 
followers,  who  regularly  attended  the  meetings  held  for 
worship  and  instruction.  The  'praying  people'  had  in- 
creased to  ninety-two.  Mr.  Marsden  ^,  meanwhile,  was 
doing  all  he  could  at  Port  Jackson  to  help  on  the  good 
work.  The  Catechism,  the  Sketch  of  our  Lord's  Life, 
and  the  Summary  of  Old  Testament  History  were  all 
being  printed.  Mr.  Tessier  had  returned  to  engage  once 
more  in  the  work  of  the  mission,  and  was  actually 
employed  on  Eimeo,  mainly  in  educational  work.  On 
this  island,  which  now  for  five  years  had  been  the 
head  quarters  of  the  mission,  progress  was  made  with 
accelerating  velocity.  By  the  end  of  1814  the  regular 
congregation  numbered  300,  and  was  often  much  larger, 
and  the  list  of  '  praying  people '  contained  204  names. 
Many  chiefs  and  others  from  the  surrounding  islands  visited 
Eimeo,  and  on  their  return  did  what  they  could  to  teach 
Christian  truths.  The  chief  source  of  difficulty  was 
the  king.  '  The  case  of  Pomare,'  write  the  missionaries, 
January  14,  1815,  'grieves  and  perplexes  us.  He  wishes 
to  be  baptized  previous  to  the  baptizing  of  any  of  his 
people,  but  we  are  far,  very  far  from  being  satisfied  that 
he  is  a  proper  subject.  He  has  an  extensive  knowledge 
of  the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel,  but  is  a  slave  to  drinking. 
We  have  repeatedly  warned  him  and  spoken  very  plainly 
and  faithfully  to  him,  but  with  very  little  success.  Thus 
are  we,  and  a  number  of  our  poor  people  who  may  be  fit 
subjects,  kept  in  disagreeable  delay  and  suspense.' 

The  stress  of  the  work  and  the  constant  excitement  and 
overpressure  due  to  the  limited  number  of  missionaries 
were  adversely  affecting  their  health.     Nearly  all  suffered 

*  Samuel  Marsden,  Government  chaplain  in  Sydney,  afterwards  to  become 
the  'Apostle  of  New  Zealand,'  then  and  always  did  all  in  his  power  to  aid  the 
Tahiti  Mission. 


2o6  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

from  repeated  attacks  of  illness,  and  on  February  9,  1815, 
Scott  died.  But,  pressed  as  the  workers  were,  their 
influence,  under  the  power  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  increased 
day  by  day.  It  was  in  the  early  part  of  this  year  that 
the  memorable  burning  of  his  idols  by  Path,  who  was  the 
priest  of  Papetoai,  the  district  of  Moorea  in  which  the 
missionaries  resided,  took  place.  On  February  18,  Patii 
had,  in  the  course  of  the  evening  worship,  said  that  he  knew 
well  the  old  religion  and  could  find  no  good  part  in  it 
at  all.  He  had  also  examined  this  new  religion,  every  part 
of  it,  and  could  find  none  bad.  It  was  all  good  ;  there- 
fore he  embraced  it,  and  renounced  the  other  altogether. 
In  this,  as  in  almost  every  incident  of  note  in  the  history  of 
the  mission,  Henry  Nott  had  a  share.  Returning  one 
day  about  this  time  along  the  shore  from  a  preaching 
excursion,  Patii  accompanying  him,  Nott's  heart  was  re- 
joiced when  Patii  told  him  that  on  the  morrow  he  intended 
to  bring  out  his  idols  and  burn  them.  '  I  can  scarcely  allow 
myself  to  believe  what  you  say,'  cried  Mr.  Nott.  '  Don't 
be  unbelieving  ;  wait  till  to-morrow  and  you  shall  see,' 
rejoined  Patii.  In  the  afternoon  of  the  next  day  Patii 
and  his  friends  split  a  quantity  of  wood,  and  piled  it  up 
on  the  beach  near  the  great  marae,  around  which  so  often 
in  the  past  had  hung  the  decaying  bodies  of  the  human 
victims  offered  in  sacrifice  to  the  god.  A  vast  crowd 
assembled,  most  of  whom  expected  that  the  gods  would 
avenge  this  insult  on  the  courageous  priest.  The  feelings 
of  the  missionaries  can  be  imagined  at  this  most  practical 
of  all  proofs  of  the  power  of  the  truths  they  had  for  so 
many  years  been  teaching.  Patii  brought  out  the  small 
ugly  carved  figures,  and  the  logs  wrapped  in  cocoanut- 
cloth  and  ornamented  with  red  feathers,  which  their 
darkened  minds  had  invested  with  such  superstitious 
terrors,  stripped  them  one  by  one,  recited  their  names 
and  pedigree,  expressed  his  sorrow  at  ever  having  wor- 
shipped them,  and  cast  them  into  the  flames,  where  they 
were  speedily  consumed.  The  deed  required  great  courage 
and  determination,  and  Patii's  name  deserves  a  prominent 


FAREFAU'S  BOLDNESS  207 

place  in  the  story  of  Tahiti's  development.  The  example 
once  having  been  set  was  speedily  followed,  and  both  in 
Eimeo  and  Tahiti  many  idols  and  maraes  were  destroyed. 

Another  event  of  considerable  importance  happened  on 
March  28.  Pomare's  party  on  Moorea  held  a  great 
meeting  to  present  food  and  presents  to  the  queen, 
Teriitaria,  and  some  of  the  chiefs  who  had  recently 
come  from  the  Leeward  Islands.  The  expectation  was 
that  all  the  old  heathen  practices  common  at  such  feasts 
would  be  observed.  But  Pomare's  influence  tended  to  dis- 
courage this.  Some  of  the  party  in  favour  of  Christianity 
proposed  that  a  blessing  should  be  asked  over  the  food. 
But  while  all  were  hesitating — none  being  bold  enough  to 
do  this  in  the  presence  of  so  many  heathen — a  chief  named 
Farefau,  who  had  come  with  Teriitaria,  stood  up  boldly 
in  the  midst  of  the  assembly,  all  of  whom  were  seated, 
addressed  God  as  the  Giver  of  every  good  thing,  and 
besought  His  blessing  on  the  food.  The  assembly  was 
thunderstruck.  The  food  v'as  now  useless  for  heathen 
ceremonies,  being  considered,  of  course,  unsuitable  to  be 
offered  to  the  gods,  and  the  feast  consequently  proceeded 
without  them.  This  deed  ranks  next  in  boldness  and 
importance  to  Patii's  burning  of  his  idols. 

But  the  old  idolatry  died  hard  ;  and  there  were  still  large 
numbers  who  witnessed  these  actions  in  fierce  anger,  and 
with  the  resolution  to  avenge  them  whenever  opportunity 
offered.  Mr.  Nott  has  recorded  the  touching  story  of  a 
martyrdom  bravely  endured.  A  fine  young  man  who  had 
intelligently  accepted  Christianity,  and  who  in  consequence 
had  been  banished  from  his  father's  house,  was  selected  by 
the  idolatrous  party  as  a  sacrifice  likely  to  be  peculiarly 
acceptable  to  their  god.  It  was  the  young  man's  custom 
towards  evening  to  visit  a  hill  near  his  home,  and  there 
under  a  clump  of  trees  close  the  day  in  pra)'er.  On  the 
evening  before  the  ceremony,  and  while  thus  engaged,  he 
was  surrounded  and  invited  to  come  down  to  the  king, 
who  wished  to  see  him.  He  instantly  penetrated  this 
subterfuge,    and   realized   that   his   fate  was   at    hand.     '  I 


2o8  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

know,'  said  he,  '  a  ceremony  approaches  ;  that  a  human 
victim  is  to  be  offered.  Something  within  me  tells  me 
I  am  to  be  that  victim,  and  your  appearance  and  your 
message  confirms  my  conviction.  Jesus  Christ  is  my 
Keeper  ;  without  His  permission  you  cannot  harm  me  : 
you  may  be  permitted  to  kill  my  body,  but  I  am  not 
afraid  to  die  !  My  soul  you  cannot  hurt ;  that  is  safe  in  the 
hands  of  Jesus  Christ.'  He  was  at  once  murdered,  and  his 
body,  enclosed  in  the  customary  long  basket  of  cocoa-nut 
leaves,  was  carried  to  the  marae  and  offered  to  the  god. 

The  crowning  event  of  this  year,  1815,  was  the  total 
overthrow  of  idolatry  on  Tahiti ;  and  it  came  about  in  this 
wise.  About  the  month  of  June  many  in  the  districts  of 
Pare  and  Matavai  renounced  idolatry.  The  numbers  of 
scholars  in  the  schools  had  greatly  increased,  and  many 
were  now  able  both  to  read  and  write  well.  Pomare  had 
sent  over  to  his  daughter  Aimata,  who  with  her  nurse  was 
living  then  on  Tahiti,  a  spelling-book,  and  this  was 
interpreted  to  mean  that  she  was  to  be  trained  in  the 
new  religion.  The  king  himself  went  a  journey  through 
Moorea,  everywhere  attempting  to  persuade  the  natives  to 
renounce  the  old  idolatry.  These  facts  were  well  known 
on  Tahiti,  and  together  with  the  steady  increase  of  the 
Pure  Atiia,  '  the  praying  people,'  naturally  and  necessarily 
enraged  that  portion  of  the  people,  still  the  majority,  who 
were  blindly  attached  to  the  old  customs.  The  chiefs  of 
Pare,  Matavai,  and  Hapaiano  entered  into  a  conspiracy  to 
murder  the  queen,  Aimata,  a  chief  named  Manaonao,  and 
all  the  members  of  the  Pure  Atua.  In  this  congenial 
service  they  enlisted  the  aid  of  their  ancient  foes  the  chiefs 
of  Atahuru  and  Papara.  On  the  night  of  July  7  the 
combined  forces  of  these  chieftains  were  to  fall  upon  the 
Pure  Atua  and  annihilate  them.  It  is  one  thing  to  plot 
against  God's  people  ;  God  does  not  always  permit  such 
plots  to  prosper.  The  various  heathen  parties  did  not 
assemble  punctually ;  secret  intelligence  of  their  imminent 
danger  was  conveyed  to  the  Christians  ;  these  all  happened 
at  the  time  to  be  assembled  on  the  beach,  with  their  canoes 


POM  ARE'S    VICTORY  209 

hard  by  ;  they  at  once  embarked  and  sailed  to  Moorea. 
The  disappointed  savages  fell  out  among  themselves  when 
the  flight  was  discovered,  and  set  to  work  killing  and 
plundering  each  other.  The  whole  north-eastern  portion 
of  Tahiti  was  laid  waste.  Pomare,  who  at  this  time  was 
in  Moorea,  took  no  part  in  these  conflicts.  Many  refugees 
crossed  over  to  Moorea,  and  gradually  joined  the  Piwe 
Aiua,  who  thus  became  stronger  than  ever. 

The  events  following  hard  upon  those  just  described 
are  best  told  in  the  original  letter,  dated  August  13, 
1816:— 

'  The  people  at  Tahiti,  who  had  embraced  Christianity, 
having  providentially  made  their  escape  and  joined  us  at 
Eimeo,  their  enemies,  as  we  mentioned  before,  quarrelled 
among  themselves.  The  Atahuru  party  having  fought  with 
and  vanquished  the  Porionu,  Teharoa,  &c.,  they,  and  the 
Taiarabu  party  who  had  assisted  them,  quarrelled  again 
among  themselves,  and  fought ;  when  the  Taiarabuans 
were  conquered,  and  driven  to  the  mountains.  After  this 
there  was  a  prospect  of  peace  being  established  ;  and  the 
people  who  on  account  of  religion  had  fled  to  Eimeo  to 
save  their  lives,  were  invited  to  return  to  Tahiti,  and  take 
repossession  of  their  respective  lands.  This  made  it  neces- 
sary for  the  king  and  his  people,  and  most  of  those  about 
us,  to  go  over  to  Tahiti,  in  company  with  different  parties 
of  refugees,  and,  according  to  an  ancient  custom  of  the 
country,  to  reinstate  them  in  a  formal  manner  in  their 
old  possessions. 

'  On  the  arrival  of  the  king,  and  those  who  followed 
him,  at  Tahiti,  the  idolatrous  party  appeared  on  the  beach 
in  a  hostile  manner ;  seemed  determined  to  oppose  the 
king's  landing  ;  and  soon  fired  on  his  party  ;  but,  by  the 
king's  strict  orders,  the  fire  was  not  returned,  but  a  message 
of  peace  sent  to  them,  which  was  productive  of  the  exchange 
of  several  messages,  and  at  last  apparently  issued  in  peace 
and  reconciliation. 

'  In  consequence  of  this,  several  of  the  people  returned 
peaceably  to    their    different    lands  ;    but    still    fears    and 

I.  P 


210  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

jealousies  existed  on  both  sides.  This  state  of  things  con- 
tinued till  Sabbath-day,  November  i2th,  1815,  when  the 
heathen  party,  taking  advantage  of  the  day^  and  of  the 
time  when  the  king  and  all  the  people  were  assembled  for 
worship,  made  a  furious,  sudden,  and  unexpected  assault, 
thinking  they  could  at  such  a  time  easily  throw  the  whole 
into  confusion.  They  approached  with  confidence,  their 
prophet  having  assured  them  of  an  easy  victory.  In  this, 
however,  they  were  mistaken.  It  happened  that  we  had 
warned  our  people  ^,  before  they  went  to  Tahiti,  of  the  pro- 
bability of  such  a  stratagem  being  practised,  should  a  war 
take  place  ;  in  consequence  of  which  they  attended  worship 
under  arms  ;  and  though  at  first  they  were  thrown  into  some 
confusion,  they  soon  formed  for  repelling  the  assailants  : 
the  engagement  became  warm  and  furious,  and  several  fell 
on  both  sides. 

'  In  the  king's  party  there  were  many  of  the  refugees 
from  several  parties  who  had  not  yet  embraced  Christianity; 
but  our  people,  not  depending  upon  them,  took  the  lead 
in  facing  the  enemy,  and  as  they  were  not  all  engaged  at 
once,  being  among  bushes  and  trees,  those  who  had  a  few 
minutes  of  respite,  fell  on  their  knees,  crying  to  Jehovah 
for  mercy  and  protection,  and  that  He  would  be  pleased  to 
support  His  cause  against  the  idolatry  of  the  heathen. 
Soon  after  the  commencement  of  the  engagement,  Upufara, 
the  Chief  of  Papara  (the  principal  man  on  the  side  of  the 
idolaters),  was  killed ;  this,  when  known,  threw  the  whole 
of  his  party  into  confusion,  and  Pomare's  party  quickly 
gained  a  complete  victory^.  However,  the  vanquished  were 
treated  with  great  lenity  and  moderation ;  and  Pomare 
gave  strict  orders  that  they  should  not  be  pursued,  and  that 
the  women  and  children  should  be  well  treated.  This  was 
complied  with  ;  not  a  woman  or  child  was  hurt  ;  nor  was 
the  property  of  the  vanquished  plundered.  The  bodies 
also  of  those  who  fell  in  the  engagement,  contrary  to  the 

^  Nott  especially  had  warned  Pomare  to  beware  of  this  action  on  the  part  of 
his  enemies. 

*  The  battle  was  fought  at  Bunaauia  in  Atehuru,  where  Pomare  then  was. 


HEATHENISM  OVERTHROWN  IN   TAHITI     21  r 

former  barbarous  practice,  were  decently  burled  ;  and  the 
body  of  the  Chief  of  Papara  was  taken  in  a  respectful 
manner  to  his  own  land,  to  be  buried  there. 

'  These  things  had  a  happy  effect  upon  the  minds  of  the 
idolaters.  They  unanimously  declared  that  they  would 
trust  their  gods  no  longer  ;  that  they  had  deceived  them, 
and  sought  their  ruin  ;  that  henceforward  they  would  cast 
them  away  entirely,  and  embrace  the  new  religion,  so  dis- 
tinguished by  its  mildness,  goodness,  and  forbearance. 

'  In  the  evening  after  the  battle,  the  professors  of 
Christianity  assembled  together,  to  worship  and  praise 
Jehovah  for  the  happy  turn  which  their  affairs  had  taken. 
In  this  they  were  joined  by  many  who  had,  till  then,  been 
the  zealous  worshippers  of  the  idols.  After  this,  Pomare 
was  by  universal  consent  restored  to  his  former  government 
of  Tahiti  and  its  dependencies  ;  since  which  he  has  con- 
stituted Chiefs  in  the  several  districts,  some  of  whom  had 
for  a  long  time  made  a  public  profession  of  Christianity, 
and  had  for  many  months  attended  the  means  of  instruction 
with  us  at  Eimeo. 

'  In  consequence  of  these  events,  idolatry  was  entirely 
abolished,  both  at  Tahiti  and  Eimeo  ;  and  we  have  the 
great,  but  formerly  unexpected,  satisfaction,  of  being  able 
to  say.  that  Tahiti  and  Eimeo,  together  with  the  small 
islands  of  Tapuamanu  and  Tetaroa,  are  now  altogether  in 
profession,  Christian  Islands.  The  gods  are  destroyed,  the 
marais  demolished,  human  sacrifices  and  infant  murder,  we 
hope,  for  ever  abolished  ;  and  the  people  everywhere 
calling  upon  us  to  come  and  teach  them. 

'The  Sabbath-day  is  also  everywhere  strictly  observed, 
and  places  for  the  worship  of  the  true  God  have  been 
erected,  and  are  now  erecting,  in  every  district ;  and  where 
there  is  no  preaching,  the  people  have  prayer-meetings 
every  Sabbath,  and  every  Wednesday  evening,  all  round 
Tahiti  and  Eimeo. 

^  But  this  is  not  all.  we  have  also  good  news  to  com- 
municate as  to  the  Leeward  Islands.  Tamatoa,  or  as  he 
is    now    called    Tapa,    the    principal    Chief,    has    likewise 

r  2 


212  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

publicly  renounced  idolatry,  and  embraced  Christianity. 
His  example  has  been  followed  by  most  of  the  other  Chiefs, 
and  a  large  majority  of  the  people  throughout  the  four 
Society  Islands :  viz.  Huaheine,  Raiatea  (or  Reiadea), 
Tahaa  (or  Otaha),  and  Borabora  (or  Bolabola).  Two  chiefs 
of  Borabora,  named  Tefaaora  and  Mai,  have  distinguished 
themselves  by  their  zeal  in  destroying  the  gods,  and 
erecting  a  house  for  the  worship  of  the  true  God.  The 
Chiefs  of  these  islands  have  sent  letters  and  repeated 
messages  to  us,  earnestly  entreating  us  to  send  some  of 
our  number  to  them,  to  teach  them  also  ;  and  Mai,  a  Chief 
of  Borabora,  sent  us  a  letter  to  remind  us  that  Jesus  Christ 
and  His  Apostles  did  not  confine  their  instructions  to  one 
place  or  country. 

'  A  war  broke  out  lately  at  Raiatea  also,  one  principal 
cause  of  which  was,  that  Tapa  and  others  had  cast  away  and 
destroyed  the  gods.  The  idolaters  had  resolved  to  revenge 
this,  and  in  consequence  attacked  Tapa  and  his  friends,  but 
were  themselves,  as  at  Tahiti,  entirely  defeated,  and  after- 
wards treated  with  much  more  lenity  than  they  deserved  ; 
but  though  they  were  then  subdued,  yet  there  is  still  a 
party  at  Raiatea  talking  of  war,  and  the  restoration  of  the 
gods  ;  but  it  seems  probable  that  they  will  not  be  able  to 
effect  anything  of  importance,  as  the  great  majority  of  the 
people  appear  decidedly  in  favour  of  Christianity. 

'  Since  the  above  happy  change  of  affairs  at  Tahiti, 
Brother  Nott,  at  the  request  of  the  brethren,  went  over  on 
a  visit  to  Tahiti,  accompanied  by  Brother  Hayward.  He 
preached  to  the  people  in  every  district  all  around  the 
island.  Large  congregations  readily  assembled  everywhere, 
and  their  attention  and  behaviour  was  very  encouraging. 
The  School,  notwithstanding  former  discouragements,  has 
prospered  exceedingly,  and  continues  to  prosper  ;  though 
at  present  many  hundreds  of  the  scholars  are  scattered 
through  the  neighbouring  islands,  some  of  whom  are 
teaching  others  In  the  different  islands  and  districts  where 
they  reside  ;  and  thus,  through  their  means,  some  knowledge 
of  reading  and  writing  has   spread  far  and  wide.     There 


POMARE'S  IDOLS  SENT  TO  LONDON  213 

are  at  least  3,000  people  who  have  some  books,  and  can 
make  use  of  them.  Many  hundreds  can  read  well  ;  and 
there  are  among  them  about  400  copies  of  the  Old 
Testament  History,  and  400  of  the  New,  which  is  an 
abridgment  of  the  four  Evangelists  and  part  of  the  Acts 
of  the  Apostles.  Many  chapters  of  Luke's  Gospel  in 
manuscript  are  also  in  circulation ;  and  1000  copies  of 
our  Taheitean  catechism,  which  several  hundreds  have 
learnt,  and  can  perfectly  repeat.' 

Early  in  1816  Pomare  sent  to  the  missionaries  his  family 
idols,  and  they  were  forwarded  to  London. 

This  harvest  of  success,  coming  so  rapidly  and  so  largely, 
embarrassed  the  little  band  of  workers  by  its  vastness. 
Every  letter  home  is  full  of  appeals  for  more  workers  and 
for  more  elementary  books.  Crook,  who  had  for  several 
years  been  resident  in  the  Colony  of  New  South  Wales, 
joined  them  on  May  8,  1816.  Tessier  had  returned  some 
time  before,  so  that  the  number  on  the  effective  staff  for 
1816  was  eight.  Of  these  Nott,  Bicknell,  Henry,  and 
Crook  formed  part  of  the  company  on  board  the  Duff  in 
1796;  Hayward,  Davies,  Tessier,  and  Wilson  had  sailed 
in  the  Royal  Admiral  in  1798. 

The  journals  of  the  missionaries  at  this  epoch  record 
much  work  and  intercourse  among  the  people  of  a  fruitful 
kind.  Mr.  Davies,  in  1816,  made  a  tour  of  Tahiti  which 
was  rich  in  events  illustrative  of  the  people  and  their 
habits  of  thought  and  life.  We  have  space  for  only  one 
example. 

'  Came  on  to  Afaina,  and  passing  their  first  place  of 
worship,  took  up  our  lodging  near  the  second,  in  our  way 
from  Atahuru.  The  people  provided  food  for  us,  and  in 
the  evening  assembled  for  worship,  about  ico  in  number. 
I  addressed  them  from  Isaiah  iii.  10.  In  the  evening,  just 
as  we  had  finished  our  worship,  Tati,  the  Chief  of  Papara. 
and  his  wife,  arrived,  and  several  people  with  them.  The\' 
had  come  from  the  King,  and  intend  following  us  to 
Taiarabu.  Tatis  son  had  been  very  ill  for  two  or  three 
days.     We  gave  him  a  little  medicine,  which  had  a  good 


214  ^^^  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

effect.  Tati  and  his  people  chose  to  remain  with  us  during 
the  night,  although  our  accommodations  were  very  indif- 
ferent. Had  a  long  conversation  with  him  on  various 
subjects,  and  particularly  on  the  great  change  which  had 
taken  place  in  Otaheite.  Tati  observed  that  it  was  an 
instance  of  the  goodness  of  Jehovah  that  He  had  sent 
His  messengers  to  make  known  His  word  to  the  people  of 
this  island,  and  had  not  punished  them  as  they  deserved. 
He  observed  further,  that  "  if  God  had  not  sent  His  word  at 
the  time  He  did,  wars,  infant  murder,  human  sacrifices,  and 
disease  would  have  made  an  end  of  the  small  remnant 
of  the  nation." ' 

Although  the  little  band  of  faithful  workers  had  yet 
received  no  official  intelligence  of  it,  and  although  past 
experience  prevented  them  from  indulging  any  sanguine 
expectations,  very  important  and  powerful  reinforcements 
were  on  their  way  ;  powerful  not  in  numbers,  for  the  total 
was  only  eight,  but  in  the  quality  of  the  workers,  for  the 
eight  included  William  Ellis,  George  Piatt,  and,  above  all, 
John  Williams.  Dependent  upon  the  almost  chance  methods 
of  communication  with  these  islands,  so  remote  from  all  the 
frequented  paths  of  commerce  and  of  travel,  the  new- 
comers straggled  in  one  after  another.  On  February  13, 
1817,  William  Ellis,  with  his  wife  and  daughter,  reached 
Eimeo,  his  fellow-traveller,  L.  E.  Threlkeld,  having  been 
left  behind  at  Rio  Janeiro.  On  April  27  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Orsmond  landed.  And  on  November  17  Messrs.  Bourne, 
Darling,  Piatt,  Williams,  Barff,  and  Threlkeld,  with  their 
wives,  reached  Eimeo,  and  the  staff  was  thus  raised  to  the 
number  of  sixteen.  It  now  became  possible  to  carry  on 
more  vigorously  the  educational  and  evangelistic  work 
already  so  pressing,  and  to  begin  in  earnest  the  great 
enterprise  of  mission  extension. 

Mr.  Ellis  had  been  carefully  instructed  as  a  printer,  and 
had  brought  out  with  him  from  England  a  press  and  all 
the  needful  plant  for  printing  small'  books.  Fortunately 
he  was  the  first  of  the  reinforcements  to  arrive,  and  he 
quickly  began   his   special  and   most  important  duty.     It 


ELLIS'S  PRESS  AT  AEAREAITU  215 

was  first  decided  that  the  press  should  be  sent  over  to 
Tahiti.  But  the  captain  of  the  vessel  in  which  Mr.  Ellis 
had  come  out  refused  to  return  there,  and  this  plan  had  to 
be  given  up.  After  some  hesitation  the  site  chosen  was  a 
district  on  the  eastern  side  of  Moorea,  called  Afareaitu. 
The  press  was  carried  there  in  native  canoes,  and  landed 
on  March  26,  1H17,  and  by  June  10  houses  had  been 
built,  the  press  put  up,  and  everything  was  ready  for  the 
commencementof  the  work. 

Pomare  took  deep  interest  in  the  press,  and  visited 
Afareaitu  for  the  purpose  of  seeing  it  begin  work.  Under 
the  direction  of  Mr.  Ellis  he  printed  the  first  sheet  struck 
off  upon  it.     Mr.  Ellis  recorded  the  event  as  follows  : — 

'  When  the  benefits  which  the  Tahitians  have  already 
derived  from  education,  and  the  circulation  of  books,  are 
considered,  with  the  increasing  advantages  which  it  is 
presumed  future  generations  will  derive  from  the  establish- 
ment of  the  press,  we  cannot  but  view  the  introduction  of 
printing  as  an  auspicious  event.  The  30th  of  June,  1817, 
was,  on  this  account,  an  important  day  in  the  annals  of 
Tahiti  ;  and  there  is  no  act  of  Pomare's  life,  excepting 
his  abolition  of  idolatry,  his  clemency  after  the  battle 
of  Bunaauia,  and  his  devotedness  in  visiting  every  dis- 
trict in  the  island,  inducing  the  chiefs  and  people  to 
embrace  Christianity,  that  will  be  remembered  with  more 
grateful  feeling  than  the  circumstance  of  his  printing  the 
first  page  of  the  first  book  published  in  the  South  Sea 
Islands  ^.' 

An  edition  of  2,600  copies  of  a  spelling-book  was  first 
printed,  supplying  the  most  urgent  need  ;  then  an  edition 
of  2,300  copies  of  the  Tahitian  Catechism,  containing  also 
texts  and  Scripture  extracts,  and  then  the  great  work  of 
printing  the  Scriptures  was  begun.  So  far  the  only  portion 
ready  for  the  press  was  the  Gospel  of  St.  Luke,  which 
Nott  had  translated.  The  first  sheet  of  this  was  at  press 
when  the  Active  arrived,  bringing  not  only  the  six  additi(^nal 
missionaries,   but   also  a  large   supply   of   printing  paper, 

'  Polynesian  ResearcJies  ^1832),  ii.  pp.  219  2  J3. 


2i6  THE  FIRST  GREAT   VICTORY 

sent  out  by  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society — the 
first  generous  help,  very  often  repeated  since,  sent  to  the 
South  Sea  and  other  missions  during  the  century.  This 
timely  supply  enabled  Mr.  Ellis  to  double  his  edition  of  the 
Gospel  and  print  3.000  instead  of  1^500  copies.  Mr.  Ellis 
and  Mr.  Crook  did  most  of  the  composing,  and  two  natives 
performed  the  heavier  labour  of  the  press.  With  so  small 
a  press  and  with  somewhat  imperfect  plant,  although 
working  from  eight  to  ten  hours  a  day,  the  progress  was 
slow.  It  was  not  until  the  early  part  of  1818  that  the  great 
work  was  finished — for  it  was  a  great  work.  Only  six 
years  before  and  Tahiti  had  seemed  as  far  away  as  ever 
from  civilization.  All  the  cruel  and  horrible  practices  of 
heathenism  were  rampant,  and  hardly  any  one  except  the 
king  either  could  or  would  read.  In  1818  the  whole 
population  was  eager  for  knowledge,  and  the  Gospel  was 
given  to  them  in  their  own  tongue  by  the  man  who  had 
slowly  and  painfully,  in  the  hard  school  of  close  contact 
with  the  people,  mastered  its  intricacies,  reduced  it  to 
writing,  and  translated  into  it  the  words  of  eternal  life. 
Had  Henry  Nott  done  nothing  more  he  deserves  to  be 
ever  remembered  as  the  man  who  first  unlocked  God's 
Word  to  the  races  of  Polynesia. 

The  title-page  of  this  editio  pi^inceps  ran,  Te  Evanclia 
iia  Liika,  irritihia  ei  par  ait  Tahiti^  'The  Gospel  of  Luke 
transferred  to  the  language  of  Tahiti.'  The  motto  was 
Matt,  xxiv,  14,  'This  Good  Word  of  the  Kingdom  shall  be 
published  in  all  the  world' ;  and  the  imprint  was,  Neneihia  i 
te  neitei  raa  paratt  a  te  mau  Misionari^  181 8,  '  Pressed  at 
the  (paper  or  book)  presser  of  the  Missionaries.'  The 
language,  of  course,  had  no  word  for  Gospel,  so  the  Greek 
word  was  used,  with  the  consonantal  changes  necessary  to 
make  it  pronounceable  by  the  natives. 

The  first  copy  of  the  precious  volume  of  St.  Luke  which 
was  bound  was  sent  to  Nott  at  Papetoai,  and  the  second, 
'  half-bound  in  red  morocco,'  to  Pomare.  The  queen  and 
the  chiefs  received  their  copies  next,  and  then  the  popular 
demand  was  supplied. 


GOSPEL    OF  LUKE  IN   TAHITI  AN  217 

The  smaller  books  had  been  given  away,  but  it  was 
wisely  resolved  to  ask  for  some  payment  in  return  for 
a  copy  of  the  Gospel.  Cocoa-nut  oil.  as  an  object  most 
easily  procurable  and  also  of  commercial  value,  was 
selected,  and  books  were  exchanged  for  bamboos  filled 
with  this  oil.  Not  only  were  the  natives  near  at  hand 
eager  to  get  copies,  but  others  came  from  afar  on  the  same 
errand.  The  beach  near  the  press  was  often  lined  with 
canoes  which  had  come  from  Tahiti  and  elsewhere  in 
search  of  the  precious  book. 

The  Gospel  of  Luke  was  succeeded  by  a  collection  of 
hymns,  some  original,  some  translations  of  English  verses. 
This  book  immediately  became  very  popular,  because  the 
natives  delight  in  verse  recitations,  their  traditions  and 
history  all  being  thrown  into  this  form. 

The  setting  up  of  the  printing  press  at  Afareaitu 
separated  the  missionaries  into  two  parties.  Davies, 
Crook,  and  Ellis  were  reinforced  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Orsmond, 
and  on  November  1 7  Threlkeld,  Barff,  Bourne,  Piatt, 
Darling,  and  John  Williams  reached  Papetoai.  The  mis- 
sionaries at  the  latter  place  had  been  busied  over  a  small 
ship,  afterwards  named  the  Haweis,  which  they  were 
building  for  Pomare.  Divergencies  of  view  upon  the 
principal  affairs  of  the  mission  began  to  manifest  them- 
selves. Some  thought  there  should  be  no  longer  delay 
in  baptizing  the  converts  ;  some  held  that  the  mission- 
aries should  keep  together ;  others  that  they  should  scatter 
and  begin  work  at  various  centres  ;  some  thought  a 
return  should  be  made  to  Tahiti.  Preaching  tours  were 
undertaken,  and  the  work  of  both  evangelizing  and  edu- 
cating was  pushed  on  as  rapidly  as  possible.  In  April, 
1818,  Mr.  Crook  settled  at  Papeete,  and  Mr.  Wilson,  with 
Mr.  Tcssier,  had  previously  settled  at  Matavai.  At  the 
annual  meeting  of  1818  a  further  development  of  work 
took  place,  when  on  May  13,  1818,  a  general  meeting  was 
held  in  the  district  of  Papetoai,  P2imeo,  in  imitation  of  the 
meetings  held  in  London,  about  2.000  of  the  natives 
attending,    who    agreed    to    form    a   '  Tahitean    Auxiliary 


2i8  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

Missionary  Society,'  to  aid  the  Parent  Society  in  England, 
in  sending  the  Gospel  to  other  nations. 

Shortly  after  this  meeting,  preparations  were  made  for 
the  removal  of  the  brethren  to  the  several  stations  in  the 
Windward  and  Leeward  Islands,  according  to  a  previous 
arrangement,  in  which  they  had  respectively  concurred. 
The  brig  Haweis,  built  at  Eimeo  by  the  missionaries,  and 
which  had  been  launched  in  December,  1817,  had  now 
completed  her  rigging,  and  was  nearly  ready  for  sea.  She 
sailed  early  in  the  month  of  June,  and  from  this  time,  until 
the  close  of  the  year,  was  employed  among  the  islands, 
partly  in  conveying  the  missionaries  to  their  new  stations, 
and  partly  in  procuring  a  cargo  of  native  produce  (chiefly 
salted  pork  and  cocoa-nut  oil)  for  the  Colony  of  New 
South  Wales. 

The  extension  of  the  work  to  the  Society  Islands  will 
be  dealt  with  in  detail  in  the  next  chapter.  Meanwhile 
we  proceed  with  the  story  of  Tahiti  and  Eimeo.  By  the 
middle  of  1818,  Ellis,  Orsmond,  and  Williams,  with  their 
families,  had  sailed  for  Huahine  in  the  Haweis.  Henry 
and  Piatt  resolved  to  remain  in  Eimeo.  Hayward  visited 
England.  The  rest  were  on  Tahiti.  The  Directors  at 
home  could  not  divest  themselves  of  the  idea  that  the 
natives  were  yearning  for  the  industries  of  civilization. 
A  Mr.  Gyles,  who  had  been  engaged  on  a  sugar  plantation 
in  the  West  Indies,  was,  without  any  previous  consultation 
with  the  missionaries,  engaged  for  four  years  and  sent  out 
to  start  and  maintain  a  sugar  factory.  With  the  aid  of 
Mr.  Darling,  Mr.  Piatt,  and  Mr.  G.  Bicknell,  son  of  the 
missionary  of  that  name,  he  established  it  at  Oponohu  in 
Eimeo,  but  as  the  natives  had  neither  the  aptitude  nor  the 
desire  to  engage  in  regular  work  the  scheme  soon  fell 
through  from  inability  to  get  labour.  The  experience 
Mr.  Gyles  had  had  with  negroes  did  not  fit  him  to  deal 
with  free  natives  like  those  of  Tahiti.  In  addition  to  the 
troubles  which  arose  in  this  way  \V^ith  the  natives,  the 
king  became  fearful  that  if  the  plantations  prospered 
adventurers   would   be  attracted   and  the    islands    injured 


POM  ARE'S   GREAT  CHAPEL  219 

thereby.  To  allay  Pomare's  fears,  in  1819  Mr.  Gyles 
abandoned  the  work,  and  returned  to  New  South  Wales. 
Mr.  G.  Bicknell  afterwards  removed  the  plant  to  Tahiti, 
and  succeeded  in  making  very  good  sugar,  though  not  in 
sufficient  quantities  to  be  of  any  commercial  value.  The 
only  result  then  of  this  costly  experiment  was  to  supply 
the  tables  of  the  missionaries  with  sugar. 

In  1821  two  artisans,  Blossom  and  Armitage,  were  sent 
out  in  the  same  ship  with  all  needful  machinery  for  spinning 
and  weaving  cotton.  In  this  case  also  no  steps  had  been 
taken  previously  to  ascertain  the  opinion  of  such  men  as 
Xott  and  Henry.  Here  again  heavy  expenditure  was 
incurred  on  probabilities  that  appeared  reasonable  enough 
in  London,  and  yet  were  only  grotesque  absurdities  to 
men  who  knew  Tahiti  and  its  natives.  Nothing  of  the 
slightest  service  to  the  mission  came  of  this  experiment,, 
and  it  finally  had  also  to  be  abandoned. 

The  baptism  of  Pomare  finally  took  place  during  the 
anniversary  meetings  of  1819,  held  at  Papaoa,  near  Matavai, 
in  the  district  of  Pare.  All  the  interesting  details  of  what 
was  a  great  event  in  the  history  of  Christianity  in  the 
South  Seas  are  given  in  graphic  and  picturesque  fashion  in 
the  contemporary  account  printed  at  the  mission  press, 
Tahiti,  on  May  18,  181 9; — 

'  The  King,  Pomare,  has  lately  erected  a  large  and  very 
long  building  at  Papaoa  in  the  district  of  Pare,  in  Otaheite, 
and  devoted  it  to  the  meetings  of  the  Missionary  Society, 
which  was  formed  among  the  Otaheiteans  last  year.  This 
building  we  denominate  the  Royal  Mission  Chapel,  and  its 
dimensions  are  as  follows  :  It  is  712  feet  long,  by  54  wide. 
The  ridge-pole,  or  middle,  is  supported  by  36  massy 
pillars  of  the  bread-fruit  tree.  The  outside  pillars  all 
around  the  house  are  280.  It  has  133  windows  with  sliding 
shutters,  and  29  doors  ;  the  ends  are  of  a  semicircular  form. 
There  are  three  square  pulpits,  about  260  feet  apart  from 
each  other,  and  the  extreme  ones  about  100  feet  from  the 
ends  of  the  house.  It  is  filled  with  forms,  except  an  area 
before  each  pulpit,  and  laid  with  clean  grass.     The  rafters 


220  THE  FIRST  GREAT   VICTORY 

are  covered  with  a  fine  kind  of  fringed  matting;  which  is 
bound  on  with  cords  of  various  colours,  in  a  very  neat 
manner  ;  and  the  ends  of  the  matting  are  left  hanging 
down,  like  the  naval  and  military  flags  in  St.  Paul's 
Cathedral.  The  whole  building  is  surrounded  with  a  very 
strong  fence  of  wood,  and  the  space  between  it  and  the 
building  is  filled  with  gravel. 

'  Pomare  has  lately  expressed  an  earnest  desire  for 
baptism,  engaging  to  devote  himself  to  the  Lord,  and  to 
put  away  every  sin,  and  every  appearance  of  evil.  He  has 
had  conferences  with  some  of  the  brethren  on  the  subject, 
and  has  also  written  a  letter  to  us,  expressing  a  deep  sense 
of  his  sinfulness  and  unworthiness,  a  firm  dependance  upon 
the  blood  of  Christ  for  pardon,  and  an  earnest  desire  to 
give  himself  to  the  Lord  in  baptism.  As  it  appeared  to  be 
the  voice  of  the  whole  nation,  and  particularly  of  the  most 
pious  chiefs,  and  as  his  conduct  has  been  so  constant  and 
persevering  in  teaching  and  promoting  good  things,  we  re- 
solved, in  humble  dependance  upon  divine  grace,  to  baptize 
him.     The  baptism  was  fixed  for  Lord's  Day,  i6th  instant. 

'  On  Monday,  the  loth  instant,  the  brethren  assembled 
at  Papaoa.  The  people  were  encamped  on  each  side  of  it 
along  the  sea-beach,  to  the  extent  of  about  four  miles. 

'  Tuesday  was  the  day  appointed  for  opening  the  Royal 
Mission  Chapel.  About  ii  o'clock  we  met  the  King  at  the 
cast  end  of  the  house.  He  was  dressed  in  a  white  shirt, 
with  a  neat  variegated  mat  around  his  loins,  and  a  tiputa 
over  all,  coloured  and  ornamented  with  red  and  yellow. 
The  Queen  and  principal  women  were  dressed  in  native 
clothing,  with  an  English  frill  around  the  neck.  The 
assembled  thousands  were  clean,  and  dressed  in  their  best. 
We  took  our  stations  according  to  appointment  ;  Brother 
Piatt  in  the  west  pulpit,  Brother  Darling  in  the  middle,  and 
Brother  Crook  in  the  east.  The  King  sat  in  the  east  end 
of  the  house.  Brother  Bourne,  from  the  middle  pulpit, 
commenced  the  service,  by  giving  olit  hymn  the  third  in 
our  Taheitean  collection,  in  a  very  shrill,  penetrating  voice, 
which  was  heard  from  one  end  of  the  house  to  the  other. 


SERVICES  IN  THE  GREAT  CHAPEL  221 

The  whole  congregation  stood  up  and  sang.  Each  preacher 
then  read  Luke  xiv.  and  prayed.  Three  sermons  com- 
menced about  the  same  time ;  Brother  DarHng's  text  was 
Isa.  Ivi.  7  ;  Brother  Piatt's  text,  Luke  xiv.  22  ;  and  Brother 
Crook's.  Exod.  xx.  24. 

'  The  sermons  being  ended  much  about  the  same  time,  all 
the  congregation  again  sang,  and  the  whole  was  concluded 
with  prayer.  The  scene  was  striking  beyond  description  ; 
no  confusion  ensued  from  three  speakers  preaching  all  at 
once  in  the  same  house,  they  being  at  so  great  a  distance 
from  each  other.  The  east  end  was  so  much  crowded,  that 
the  preacher  could  not  get  up  the  aisle,  and  with  difficulty 
got  to  his  station  through  a  door  behind  the  pulpit.  After 
a  careful  attention  to  the  subject,  w^e  suppose  the  number 
of  hearers  in  the  whole  house  to  have  been  between  five 
and  six  thousand.  We  met  together  in  the  afternoon 
to  attend  to  the  internal  concerns  of  the  Society,  and 
departed  to  our  lodgings  much  gratified,  and  praising  God 
for  what  we  had  seen  and  heard. 

'  Wednesday  was  the  anniversary  of  the  Missionary 
Society,  and  Thursday  was  the  day  for  promulgating  the 
laws.  About  noon  we  all  assembled  in  the  centre  of  the 
Royal  Mission  Chapel.  The  King  requested  Brother  Crook 
to  open  the  business  of  the  day.  He  ascended  the  pulpit, 
and  Pomare  followed.  After  singing,  reading  the  Scriptures, 
and  prayer,  the  King  stood  up,  and  looked  upon  the 
thousands  of  his  subjects  on  his  right  hand  and  on  his  left. 
Addressing  himself  to  Tati,  the  pious  chief  of  the  southern 
part  of  the  island,  he  said,  "  Tati,  what  is  your  desire  ? 
what  can  I  do  for  you  ?  "  Tati,  who  sat  nearly  opposite 
the  pulpit,  arose  and  said,  "  Those  are  what  we  want,  the 
papers  you  hold  in  your  hand — the  laws  ;  give  them  to  us, 
that  wc  may  have  them  in  our  hands,  that  wc  may  regard 
them,  and  do  what  is  right."  The  King  then  addressed 
himself  to  Utami,  the  good  chief  of  the  Teoropaa,  and,  in 
an  affectionate  manner,  said,  "  Utami,  and  what  is  your 
desire  ?"  He  replied,  "  One  thing  only  is  desired  by  us  all, 
that  which  Tati  has  expressed — the  laws  which  you  hold 


222  THE  FIRST  GREAT   VICTORY 

in  your  hand."     The  King  then  addressed  Arahu,  the  chief 
of  Eimeo,  and  Veve,  the  chief  of  Taiarabu,  nearly  in  the 
same   manner,  and  they  repHed  as  the  others  had  done. 
Pomare  then  proceeded   to   read  and  comment  upon  the 
laws  respecting  murder,  theft,  trespass,  stolen  property,  lost 
property.   Sabbath-breaking,  rebellion,  marriage,  adultery, 
the  judges,  court-houses,  &c.,  in  eighteen  articles.     After 
reading  and  explaining  the  several  articles,  he  asked  the 
chiefs  if  they  approved  of  them.    They  replied,  aloud,  "  We 
agree  to  them,  we  heartily  agree  to  them."    The  King  then 
addressed  the  people,  and  desired  them,  if  they  approved 
of  the  laws,   to  signify  the  same  by  lifting  up  their  right 
hands.     This  was  unanimously   done,  with  a  remarkable 
rushing  noise,  owing  to  the  thousands  of  arms  being  lifted 
at  once.     Thus  all  the  articles  were  passed  and  approved. 
Brother  Henry  concluded  the  meeting  with  a  short  address, 
prayer,  and  blessing.     This  interesting  scene  may  be  better 
conceived  of  than  described  :  to  see  a  king  giving  laws  to 
his  people,  with  an  express  regard  to  the  authority  of  the 
word  of  God,  and  a  people  receiving  the  same  with  such 
universal  satisfaction,  was  a  subject  very  affecting  to  us  alP. 
'On  Sabbath-day,  the  i6th  inst.,  the  congregations  were 
again  assembled  in  the  Chapel  Royal.     The  people  were 
not  so  numerous  as  before,  owing  to  their  having  been  so 
long  from  home  ;  and  being  pinched  for  food,  many  had 
returned.      However,   we  had   still  between  four  and  five 
thousand    hearers.       Brother    Wilson    occupied    the    east 
pulpit.  Brother  Henry  the  west,  and  Brother  Bicknell  the 
middle.     They  all    preached  from  the  same  subject — the 
commission  of  our  Lord   to  His  disciples,  to  disciple  and 
baptize   all    nations,    Matt,   xxviii.    j8-20.      The    sermons 
being  ended,  we  all  closed  around  the  King,  he  being  seated 
on    the   occasion    in    the   centre,  near   the    middle    pulpit. 
Brother  Bourne  commenced  by  giving  out  a  hymn,  which 
was  sung  by  the  congregation.     Brother  Bicknell  engaged 

1  he  king  undertook  to  write  out  a  fair  copy  of  the  laws  for  the  press,  and 
also  to  send  a  circular  letter  to  all  the  governors  on  the  subject  of  education, 
pressing  the  importance  of  parents  getting  their  children  instructed. 


POMARE'S  BAPTISM  223 

in  prayer,  which  being  ended,  the  King  stood  up.  Brother 
Bicknell  stood  on  the  steps  of  the  pulpit,  and  taking  the 
water  from  the  basin,  held  by  Brother  Henry_,  poured  it  on 
his  head,  baptizing  him  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  Son, 
and  Holy  Ghost.  Pomare  was  observed  to  lift  up  his  eyes 
to  heaven,  and  move  his  lips  with  an  indistinct  sound. 
The  sight  was  very  moving,  especially  to  our  elder 
brethren,  who  had  been  watching  over  him  for  so  many 
years.  Brother  Bicknell  addressed  the  King  with  firmness, 
yet  not  without  a  degree  of  tremour,  entreating  him  to  walk 
worthy  of  his  high  profession  in  the  conspicuous  situation 
he  holds  before  the  eyes  of  men,  angels,  and  God  himself. 
Brother  Henry  addressed  the  people,  exhorting  them  to 
follow  the  example  of  their  King,  and  to  give  themselves 
up  to  the  Lord.  Another  hymn  was  sung,  and  Brother 
Wilson  concluded  the  whole  with  prayer.  Pomare  shook 
hands  affectionately  with  all  the  missionaries,  they  being 
stationed,  by  his  own  desire,  at  his  right  and  left  hand. 
After  the  ceremony  the  King  returned  to  his  camp. 

'  On  Monday,  the  :  jth  inst.,  all  the  brethren  and  sisters 
met  at  Wilks'  Harbour,  and  celebrated  the  Saviour's  dying 
love  with  much  affection  and  Christian  union.  The  after- 
noon was  spent  in  arranging  the  affairs  of  the  Society, 
drawing  up  rules  for  the  baptized,  &c.  A  considerable 
number  of  the  natives  of  Otaheite  and  Eimeo,  including 
several  chiefs,  have  been  baptized.  After  which  the  brethren 
returned  to  their  respective  stations,  with  renewed  vigour, 
to  press  forward  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.' 

From  this  period  until  the  time  of  the  French  intervention 
the  work  of  the  Tahiti  Mission  consists  chiefly  of  a  record 
of  evancrclistic  and  educational  work  at  the  different  stations 
occupied  by  the  missionaries.  The  chief  of  these  were 
Papetoai  and  Afareaitu  in  Eimeo,  and  Matavai,  Papeete. 
Papara,  and  Taiarabu  in  Tahiti.  On  July  2,  1H19,  at 
Papetoai,  of  which  station  Mr.  Henry  remained  in  charge 
with  Mr.  Piatt  for  a  time  as  colleague,  a  Christian  Church  was 
formed,  consisting  of  twenty-two  adults,  fourteen  men  and 
eight  women,  who  had  been  baptized  the  previous  month. 


224  ^^^  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

By  1821  the  number  of  members  had  increased  to  about 
100,  and  in  January  of  that  year  six  deacons  were 
appointed,  the  first  being  Patii,  formerly  priest  of  the 
district.  By  1825  most  of  the  inhabitants  of  Eimeo  had 
been  baptized.  A  church  for  worship,  built  of  blocks  of 
coral,  was  begun  by  the  natives,  but  not  completed  and 
opened  for  service  until  1829.  In  February,  1824.  Mr.  Piatt 
removed  to  Borabora  to  replace  Mr.  Orsmond,  who  was 
appointed  to  take  charge  of  the  academy  for  the  children 
of  the  missionaries  which  had  been  established  at 
Afareaitu.  In  1827  Mr.  Henry  left  for  Tiarei  in  Tahiti, 
and  Mr.  Simpson  succeeded  him.  Mr.  Henry  had,  up  to 
the  time  he  left,  baptized  628  adults,  379  of  their  children, 
247  infants,  a  total  in  all  of  1254. 

One  of  the  earliest  stations  reoccupied  on  Tahiti  after 
the  conversion  of  the  island  was  Matavai,  the  first  home  of 
the  missionaries,  and  the  centre  for  long  and  weary  years 
of  their  seemingly  unproductive  work.  In  December, 
1 81 7,  Mr.  Wilson  and  his  family  went  to  live  some  dis- 
tance to  the  east  of  the  old  site.  There  he  was  soon 
joined,  first  by  Mr.  Tessier  and  later  on  by  Mr.  Darling. 
The  latter  had  left  to  share  the  labours  and  experiences  of 
Mr.  Gyles  on  Eimeo.  In  June,  1819,  Mr.  Nott  returned  from 
Huahine  and  made  his  home  at  Matavai.  He  was  busily 
engaged  in  Bible  translation  work,  and  among  other 
reasons  he  wished  to  be  near  Pomare  and  enjoy  the  benefit 
of  the  king's  assistance.  Mr.  Tessier  soon  after  went  to 
assist  Mr.  Bicknell  at  Papara.  Later  on  Mr.  Nott  himself 
removed  to  Papara,  and  the  size  and  importance  of  the 
Matavai  station  decreased  considerably.  Here,  as  in  many 
other  parts  of  the  world  much  more  highly  favoured,  great 
advantages  did  not  necessarily  result  in  greater  blessing. 
The  presence  of  Pomare  and  his  entourage  was  often  pro- 
ductive of  ill  rather  than  good.  More  frequent  contact 
with  Europeans  proved  a  constant  snare  to  the  natives. 
They  were  either  unable  or  unwilling  to  resist  the  tempta- 
tions to  drink  and  to  immorality  thus  offered,  and  Papeete 
down  even  to  the  present  time  is  one  of  the  least  satis- 


POMARF 
(Taliiti) 


Papeiha 
(Rarotonga) 


Henry  Nott 
(Tahiti) 


George  Gill 
iMan^aia; 


Aaron  Buzacott 
(Rarotonjjaj 


DEATH  OF  HENRY  BICKNELL  225 

factory  places  from  the  Christian  point  of  view  in 
Polynesia.  In  communities,  as  with  individuals  at  times, 
'  the  first  shall  be  last.'  On  July  23,  1820,  Mr.  Tessier  died 
from  dysentery  at  Papara,  after  nineteen  years  of  diligent 
and  faithful  service.  On  August  7  the  same  disease 
proved  fatal  to  Mr.  Bicknell.  He  had  been  one  of  the 
most  consecrated  and  energetic  workers  connected  with 
the  mission.  He  had  shared  all  its  vicissitudes,  and 
deserves  much  of  the  credit  for  its  success.  He  went  out 
in  the  Duff  in  1796,  he  passed  unscathed  through  the 
temptations  to  which  so  many  succumbed,  he  never  lost 
heart  even  when  things  were  at  their  worst,  and  he  lived 
not  only  to  see  the  beginning  of  victory,  but  was  also 
enabled  to  do  much  useful  work  in  the  extension  and 
consolidation  of  Christianity  in  the  island. 

A  few  weeks  previous  to  this  sad  loss  a  son,  the  heir 
to  the  royal  power,  had  been  born  to  Pomare.  With  the 
king's  consent  the  missionaries  undertook  to  educate  him 
as  a  Christian  child. 

About  three  miles  from  Mr.  Xott's  house  at  Matavai 
was  Papaoa,  the  principal  residence  of  Pomare.  Here 
Pomare  had  erected  his  huge  and  comparatively  useless 
chapel,  and  both  on  Sundays  and  Wednesdays  Mr.  Nott 
preached  there.  Later  on  a  new  chapel  was  built,  and  the 
old  one,  greatly  reduced  in  size  and  largely  rebuilt,  was 
kept  for  public  meetings.  A  little  while  before  his  visit 
to  England  in  1825,  Mr.  Nott  removed  his  residence  to 
Papaoa,  mainly  at  the  request  of  Pomare.  Hither  he 
returned  in  1827.  Between  1829  and  1832  the  Christian 
life  of  the  district  degenerated  largely  because  of  the 
scandalous  lives  of  Aimata,  Pomares  daughter,  and  her 
attendants.  Christian  work  of  the  kind  referred  to  above 
was  also  carried  on  at  several  other  stations  on  the  larger 
peninsula  and  also  on  Taiarabu. 

We  have  no  space  to  trace  the  work  of  consolidating 
and  developing  Christianity  in  Tahiti  at  this  period  in 
greater  detail.  Two  great  events  we  must  look  into 
somewhat  closely.      The  first  was  the  death   of  Pomare, 

I.  Q 


226  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

and  the  other  the  arrival  of  a  deputation  of  Directors  from 
London. 

Next  to  Mr.  Nott,  Mr.  Crook  saw  most  of  Pomare 
at  this  time,  and  he  also  was  with  him  at  his  death. 
From  Crook's  journal  for  1820  and  1821  we  select 
a  few  pictures  of  the  changed  life  and  conditions  in 
Tahiti.  When  extracts  from  it  were  printed  in  1822 
nearly  every  word  that  reflected  upon  the  king  was,  for 
what  at  that  time  seemed  good  and  sufficient  reasons, 
rigorously  excluded.  We  now  quote  them  exactly  as 
they  stand  in  the  original  journal,  not,  of  course,  to  magnify 
the  failings  of  Pomare,  but  because  they  help  us  to  under- 
stand how  hard  it  is  even  for  a  partially  enlightened  man 
to  shake  off  the  fetters  of  heathenism.  Pomare  exhibits 
a  type  of  character  not  at  all  unfamiliar  to  Christian 
workers.  He  had  been  educated  and  trained  in  heathen 
savagery.  He  was  possessed  of  absolute  and  boundless 
power.  He  was  both  by  training  and  practice  steeped 
in  sensual  vice  of  every  kind.  Yet  he  was  undoubtedly 
a  man  of  considerable  intellectual  force,  and  his  mind 
had  assented  to  the  truth  of  the  teachings  of  Christianity. 
His  conscience  was  awakened,  and  he  knew  himself  to  be 
a  great  sinner ;  but  he  was  unable  to  break  free  from  sinful 
habits.  The  missionaries  were  always  in  a  very  dififlcult 
position  with  regard  to  him.  As  chief  his  power  was 
practically  boundless.  Mainly  through  his  acceptance,  at 
least  outwardly,  of  the  Gospel,  Christianity  triumphed  in 
Tahiti.  But  in  Christian  excellence  and  development  he 
was  far  surpassed  by  many  of  his  subjects.  The  ensuing 
extracts  present  a  sad  picture.  His  own  conscience 
aroused,  his  intellect  enlightened,  friendly  towards  the 
missionaries,  and  in  turn  to  them  the  object  of  their 
ceaseless  prayer  and  labour,  and  of  their  most  solicitous 
concern,  Pomare  was  unable  to  break  free  from  the  strong 
cords  of  sin  by  which  he  was  holden.  He  threw,  at  many 
critical  epochs,  the  whole  weight  of  his  authority  upon  the 
side  of  Christ ;  but  he  never  seems  to  have  yielded  his  own 
heart  to  the  Saviour's  sway. 


POM  A  RE'S   TWOFOLD  NATURE  227 

'  jftily  7. — We  hear  that  Pomare  drank  to  excess  last 
night,  and  also  two  of  our  communicants,  Ahuriro  and 
Hitoti.  Pomare  had  no  scruple  about  drinking  himself, 
but  wished  to  withhold  it  from  others.' 

^February  6,  1821. — One  painful  thing  is  the  spiritual 
and  temporal  state  of  the  King,  who  arrived  this  morning 
in  his  Paumotu  canoe,  and  was  saluted  with  21  swivels. 
He  came  on  board,  looking  very  gloomy  and  sulky  as 
usual,  under  the  influence  of  two  bottles  of  spirits,  which 
were  sent  to  him  yesterday  from  the  ship.  At  dinner  his 
detestable  pander  sat  alongside  of  him  on  a  low  seat. 
The  King  cut  some  meat,  put  it  in  a  plate,  and  gave  it  him, 
and  he  took  it  back  and  eat  it.  Afterwards  he  came  to 
the  table  again  ;  the  King  poured  him  out  spirits,  which  he 
drank  at  the  table.  Brother  Nott  reports  that  when  he  has 
gone  to  the  King  to  translate  the  Scripture,  this  vile  fellow 
has  lain  asleep,  and  when  the  King  awoke  him  at  one  time 
he  was  offended  and  cried  like  a  child.  The  King  then 
coaxed  him  and  made  it  up  with  him.  Brother  Nott  also 
informed  the  brethren  Bourne,  Darling,  and  myself  this 
day  that  he  is  very  near  to  the  King's  person,  who  cannot 
bear  him  out  of  his  sight  for  a  minute,  and  that  when  he 
is  translating  the  Scriptures  with  the  King,  he  (Brother 
Nott)  on  one  couch  and  the  King  on  another,  this  detest- 
able wretch  is  frequently  between  them,  and  he  is  obliged 
to  turn  his  head  from  them  to  his  book  to  avoid  seeing 
what  passes,  and  still  gets  his  ears  shocked  with  what  he 
hears.  The  King,  as  we  may  expect,  pays  no  attention  to 
his  wife,  and  seems  to  have  no  concern  at  all  about  his 
infant  son,  who  was  at  our  house  most  of  the  day,  but  the 
King  made  no  inquiry  after  him.  It  is  not  to  be  wondered 
at,  therefore,  that  he  catches  at  everything  that  seems  to 
favour  Antinomian  principles.  His  case  is  truly  awful. 
As  to  his  government,  he  is  despotic  and  tyrannical.  He 
has  ordered  every  person  to  bring  him  a  hog,  or  they  are 
to  be  banished  from  the  land  and  go  upon  the  reef.' 

'  September  26.  —  The  Tuscan  whaler  arrived  from 
England,  bringing  Rev.  D.  Tyerman  and  G.  Bcnnet,  Esq., 

Q  2 


228  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

deputies  from  the  Missionary  Society,  Rev.  Mr.  Jones, 
missionary,  and  Mr.  Blossom  and  Armitage,  missionary 
artisans.' 

'October  i6. — The  gentlemen  of  the  Deputation,  accom- 
panied by  Brother  Nott,  sailed  to  Moorea  on  Saturday  last 
to  see  the  King.  We  hear  he  is  dangerously  ill.  At  the 
meeting  of  the  baptized  but  few  attended.' 

'  October  17. — The  King's  conduct  has  been  the  greatest 
check  to  the  civilization  of  the  people  as  well  as  to  their 
consistent  conduct.  He  has  himself  not  taken  one  step 
towards  civilized  life,  and  he  has  taught  the  natives  to 
disregard  everything  the  missionaries  say  to  him  on  that 
head.  He  has  also,  by  his  drunken  and  abominable  manner 
of  life,  drawn  aside  the  people  and  even  the  members  of 
our  churches,  who  when  they  are  cast  out  of  the  church 
are  received  into  greater  intimacy  with  him,  and  so  are 
hardened  in  their  sins.  It  has  also  had  a  lamentable  effect 
on  our  schools,  and  indeed  tends  to  damp  every  effort 
made  for  the  good  of  the  people.' 

''November  26.  —  The  gentlemen  of  the  deputation 
arrived,  accompanied  by  Brother  Nott  and  Brother 
Davies.  Breakfasted  with  them  on  board  the  Dragon 
brig,  Capt.  Walker,  which  came  in  a  few  days  ago  to 
refresh  and  repair.  Capt.  Walker  took  us  to  Burder's 
Point  in  his  boat.  We  found  the  King  very  ill  with  the 
elephantiasis  in  his  legs  and  arms,  a  dropsy  of  the  abdomen 
and  thorax,  or  chest,  so  that  he  appeared  to  be  an  entire 
mass  of  disease.  Some  of  the  chiefs  proposed  a  public 
fast  on  his  account.  The  King  referred  them  to  us,  and 
being  approved,  it  was  appointed  for  Friday  next.' 

^November  28. — After  school  and  breakfast  went  to 
see  the  King  at  the  place  we  left  him  two  or  three  miles 
distant.  Gave  him  some  medicine,  and  endeavoured  to 
remind  him  of  his  sinful  state  by  nature  and  practice,  and 
of  the  necessity  of  fleeing  quickly  to  Christ.  He  behaved 
very  kindly,  but  seemed  to  have  no  I'elish  for  religious  con- 
versation. Brought  home  the  young  Prince ;  his  nurse 
was  sent  to  carry  him,  and  two  soldiers  for  his  guard.' 


LAST  DAYS   OF  POM  ARE  229 

^November  29. — The  King  and  his  retinue  arrived  and 
took  up  their  residence  at  Papeete.' 

'  November  30. — Fast  day.  At  sunrise  attended  upon 
the  King.  Hitoti,  Tati,  and  Utami  prayed,  and  I  concluded 
with  reading  the  6th  Psalm  and  prayer  around  his  bed. 
He  seemed  restless.  Expounded  Isa.  Iviii.  1-12,  both  fore- 
noon and  afternoon.' 

^December  3. — The  King  removed  to  the  little  islet  for 
the  benefit  of  the  air.  Attended  him  there  and  gave  him 
medicines.  His  whole  frame  is  greatly  swollen.  His  legs 
are  like  elephants'  legs,  and  his  thighs  not  only  swollen 
but  hard  as  a  board  ;  the  water  fluctuates  in  the  abdomen, 
and  there  are  symptoms  of  water  in  the  chest.' 

'  December  5. — Had  a  little  conversation  with  the  King 
about  his  soul's  concerns,  but  could  get  nothing  satisfactory 
from  him.  Asked  him  of  the  succession  ;  he  replied  that 
was  settled  on  his  son.  I  asked  him  of  the  regency,  and 
he  said  that  was  not  settled,  but  seemed  to  wish  to  avoid 
the  subject.  Some  of  the  chiefs  proposed  prayer,  and 
I  prayed  at  his  bedside,  labouring  to  affect  his  mind  with 
his  awful  state,  and  entreating  that  he  might  be  plucked 
as  a  brand  from  the  burning.  Soon  after  Brother  Nott 
arrived,  and  he  also  talked  to  him  and  prayed  with 
him.' 

'December  7. — This  morning  the  King  and  attendants 
removed  from  the  island  to  a  grove  of  cocoa-nut  trees, 
about  half  a  mile  distant  in  Faaa.  Shortly  after  Dr.  Redfern 
arrived  with  Brother  Nott  and  were  proceeding  to  the  King, 
but  a  messenger  from  him  informed  them  he  could  not  be 
seen  as  yet,  but  would  send  when  he  was  ready.  Soon 
after  the  messenger  arrived,  and  I  accompanied  them  to 
the  King.  We  found  him  in  a  very  low,  comatose  state, 
with  short  lucid  intervals.  We  had  scarcely  left  him 
and  got  home  when  a  messenger  arrived,  saying  I  must 
attend  immediately,  for  Pomare  had  fainted.  Dr.  Redfern 
accompanied  m.e,  and  we  saw  his  end  was  fast  approaching. 
He  was  sensible,  and  I  dropped  a  few  short  sentences  by 
way  of  exhortation.     Being  somewhat  revived  we  returned 


230  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

home.  In  the  evening  I  was  sent  for  again  in  a  similar 
manner.  As  soon  as  I  arrived  I  told  him  I  was  come  to 
do  what  I  could  for  him,  but  I  feared  it  would  be  of  no 
avail.  It  was  true  he  was  a  very  great  sinner,  but  Christ 
was  a  great  Saviour,  and  Jesus  alone  was  able  to  help  him. 
He  replied,  "  Jesus  alone,"  and  these  were  his  last  words. 
He  lay  in  a  stupor.  His  favourite  men  now  kept  their 
distance,  and  his  wife  and  his  sister  hung  over  him  weeping 
aloud.  His  cousin  Manihinihi  also  wept  much,  but  Aimata 
seemed  little  affected.  I  held  the  young  Prince  at  the  foot 
of  the  bed  and  watched  the  King.  At  8  he  ceased  to 
breathe,  and  I  offered  up  a  short  prayer,  after  which 
a  general  weeping  commenced.  They  wept  aloud,  saying, 
'-'  Alas  !  Alas  !  our  King  !  "  *'  Twas  he,"  said  the  Queen 
and  her  sister,  "  who  brought  us  hither,  and  now  Alas  ! 
Alas !  for  the  children,"  and  thus  the  dirge  went  round, 
each  having  something  to  say  (or  sing  rather)  peculiar  to 
themselves,  and  the  big  tears  rolling  from  their  cheeks. 
I  could  scarce  refrain  weeping  myself,  though  I  had  reason 
to  think  the  King's  death  would  be  a  public  benefit.' 

'  December  8.— The  body  was  removed  early  this  morning 
to  Papaoa.  An  immense  coffin  was  made,  near  seven  feet 
long  and  almost  three  feet  wide  at  the  shoulders.  The 
body  was  put  in  the  coffin  this  evening,  the  lid  being  lined 
with  black  broadcloth.' 

^December  10. — All  the  people  busily  employed  in  get- 
ting stones  to  build  the  King's  tomb.  Went  to  Papaoa. 
The  brethren  Henry  and  Piatt  came  from  Eimeo,  and 
Brother  Bourne  from  Burder's  Point.  At  Papaoa  we  met 
the  brethren  from  Matavai,  so  that  all  the  missionaries  of 
these  two  islands  were  present  except  Brother  Darling, 
who  is  travelling  round  the  islands.  It  was  agreed  that 
the  body  should  be  interred  to-morrow,  so  that  we  returned 
home  again.' 

'  December  1 1 . — Assembled  at  Papaoa  about  noon  as 
yesterday.  Brother  Nott  addressed  the  people  at  the 
grave,  after  which  the  soldiers  fired,  and  the  vessels  in 
Wilks'     Harbour    fired    minute    guns.      We    then    retired 


FUNERAL    OF  POMARE  231 

to  the  large  chapel,  and  Brother  Jones  preached  to  us 
from  1  Thess.  iv.  15-18.  The  Queen  provided  a  dinner 
in  the  European  style,  having  borrowed  plates,  &c.,  and 
the  gentlemen  from  the  ship  furnished  her  with  wine.  This 
was  advancing  a  step  in  civilization  be}'ond  anything  we 
had  seen  with  the  King.' 

^December  22. — The  past  days  have  been  attended 
with  much  rain,  thunder,  and  lightning,  and  has  the 
appearance  of  the  regular  rainy  season.  There  is  to  be 
a  meeting  of  all  the  chiefs  and  the  missionaries  when  the 
ships  are  departed,  in  order  to  settle  the  government  on 
a  good  foundation.  The  young  King  is  called  by  his 
father  s  name,  Pomare,  and  is  to  be  formally  invested  with 
the  government. 

'  The  late  King  stood  six  feet  two  inches,  and  was  pro- 
portionately stout.  He  was  the  biggest  man  in  the  island. 
Tati,  who  stood  next  him  as  to  height  and  bulk,  always 
appeared  at  a  disadvantage  when  standing  by  his  side. 
Pomare  possessed  a  very  capacious  mind  compared  with 
any  of  his  people,  and  therefore  was  overrated  by  others 
and  overrated  his  own  abilities.  He  was  fond  of  despotic 
power,  and  loved  to  have  the  persons  and  property  of  his 
people  at  his  entire  disposal.  He  supported  the  old  prac- 
tice that  no  woman  should  eat  in  any  house  that  the  king 
had  honoured  with  his  presence.  He  was  naturally  idle, 
seldom  or  never  walked  out  except  to  bathe,  and  seemed 
much  more  averse  than  his  people  to  adopt  European 
customs.  He  inherited  from  his  father  a  love  to  foreigners, 
and  was  always  the  friend  of  missionaries.  He  frequently 
evinced  that  he  was  under  the  influence  of  Antinomian 
notions,  and  seemed  to  steel  his  heart  against  convictions. 
He  was  much  feared  by  the  people,  and  was  made  very 
useful  in  bringing  about  the  great  change  that  has  taken 
place  in  these  islands.' 

In  the  year  1821  a  Deputation,  consisting  of  the 
Rev.  Daniel  Tyerman,  formerly  of  Newport,  Isle  of  Wight, 
and  George  Bennet,  Esq.,  of  Sheffield,  was  appointed  by 
the   Directors   to  visit  first  the   South   Seas,  and   then,  if 


232  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

possible,  all  the  other  fields  of  missionary  labour  which  had 
been  occupied  by  the  Society  between  1795  and  1820. 
A  circular  issued  in  1820  sets  forth  the  somewhat  compre- 
hensive and  delicate  duties  which  they  were  to  undertake: — 

'The  great  objects  of  the  Deputation  will  be,  to  make 
themselves  thoroughly  acquainted  with  the  state  of  the 
missions,  and  of  the  islands ;  and  to  suggest,  and,  if 
possible,  carry  into  effect,  such  plans  as  shall  appear  to  be 
requisite  for  the  furtherance  of  the  Gospel,  and  for  intro- 
ducing among  the  natives  the  occupations  and  habits  of 
civilized  life.  In  order  to  the  attainment  of  these  objects, 
it  is  proposed  to  form  such  arrangements  as  shall  tend  to 
the  introduction  of  Christian  churches  ;  the  establish- 
ment and  improvement  of  schools  for  the  children  of  the 
missionaries  and  of  the  natives,  and,  eventually,  of  trades  ; 
and  a  proper  and  constant  attention  to  the  cultivation  of 
the  ground.' 

It  is  always  very  difficult  for  the  home  authorities  to 
come  into  sufficiently  close  touch  with  their  workers  in  the 
foreign  fields  through  correspondence  only.  Even  with  all 
the  multiplied  means  of  communication  of  the  present  day, 
the  matters  most  essential  for  boards  of  management  to 
realize  are  often  the  very  points  which  they  are  either 
slow  or  unable  to  grasp.  Hence  those  responsible  for  the 
guidance  of  the  great  missionary  societies  are  realizing 
more  and  more  that  either  by  means  of  their  permanent 
officials  or  by  special  deputations  they  must  visit,  at  no 
infrequent  intervals,  the  active  and  important  centres  of 
missionary  work.  This  is  generally  admitted  to  be  sound 
in  theory,  and  to  some  extent — but  not  yet  as  thoroughly 
as  desirable — is  acted  upon  in  practice.  In  1821  this  course 
was  in  the  highest  degree  needful.  The  extraordinary 
success  of  the  South  Sea  Mission,  and  the  purely  tentative 
and  haphazard  way  in  which  the  mission  and  missionaries 
had  hitherto  been  dealt  with,  alike  rendered  it  most  needful 
that  the  Directors  should  see  things  through  the  eyes  of 
thoroughly  capable  observers.  The  record  of  the  travels 
and  work  of  this  Deputation  is  a  book  full  of  entrancing 


TYERMAN  AND  BENNET  VISIT  TAHITI        233 

interest,  and  of  instruction  for  all  who  have  to  do  with 
missionary  affairs  ^.  The  formidable  nature  of  the  work 
may  be  gathered  from  the  fact  that  it  took  eight  years  to 
discharge  the  duty,  and  one  member  of  the  Deputation,  the 
Rev.  Daniel  Tyerman.  died  during  the  journey. 

Messrs.  Tverman  and  Bennet  sailed  from  London  in 
the  Tuscan,  a  whaler.  May  2,  iSzi;,  and  reached  Tahiti 
September  25,  1821.  They  landed  at  a  critical  moment. 
Pomare  was  fast  nearing  his  end,  and  there  was  no  strong 
ruler  to  step  into  his  place.  Many  of  the  descriptions  are 
vivid,  and  of  great  value  as  giving  the  impressions  of  able 
and  intelligent  men  at  the  epoch  when  Christianity  was 
transforming  the  whole  outward  life  of  many  of  these 
islands,  and  also  winning  the  hearts  of  many  of  their 
degraded  and  savage  inhabitants  to  purity  and  Christ- 
likeness. 

'  King  Pomare,  we  found,  when  we  arrived,  was  on  the 
adjacent  island  of  Eimeo.  Here  a  very  interesting  scene 
took  place  about  six  weeks  before  our  arrival.  A  number 
of  the  Ana  people,  or  inhabitants  of  Chain  Island,  and 
Paumotans  (both  subjects  of  Pomare)  assembled  here. 
These  tribes  had  long  indulged  towards  each  other  the 
most  rancorous  hatred,  and  their  islands  being  adjacent  the\' 
were  continually  at  war,  in  conducting  which  neither  side 
gave  quarter.  The  King  determined,  if  possible,  to  subdue 
this  enmity,  and  establish  permanent  peace  between  them. 
He  therefore  convened  a  meeting  of  the  chiefs  and  principal 
personages,  unarmed,  on  both  sides.  These  were  separately 
ranged  in  the  two  courts  above  mentioned,  divided  by  a  low 
fence.  There  stood  Pomare,  between  the  two  parties,  and 
in  an  impressive  speech  exhorted  them  to  reconciliation. 
His  arguments  and  his  authority  prevailed,  and  the  repre- 
sentatives of  both  islands  entered  into  an  agreement  upon 
the  spot,  that  there  should  be  no  more  war  between  their 

*  Journal  of  Voyages  and  Travels  by  the  Rev.  Daniel  Tyerman  and  George 
Bennet,  Esq.,  deputed  from  the  London  Missionary  Society  to  visit  their  various 
stations  between  the  years  1821  and  1629.  Compiled  by  James  Montgomery. 
London,  1831. 


234  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

respective  people,  but  that  friendly  intercourse  should  take 
the  place  of  perpetual  strife  ^.' 

'  Mr.  Nott,  among  other  curiosities,  showed  us  a  manu- 
script copy  of  the  translated  Gospel  of  St  Luke,  executed 
by  King  Pomare  in  a  very  neat,  small  hand.  It  was  from, 
this  copy  that  the  first  edition  of  that  evangelist  was 
printed.  Mr.  Nott  stated  that  he  had  been  greatly  aided 
by  Pomare  in  making  that  version,  the  King  being  better 
acquainted  with  the  Tahitian  language,  and  its  capabilities, 
than  most  of  his  subjects.  This  is  probably  an  unparal- 
leled instance  of  a  prince — and  that  no  mean  one,  for  he 
had  the  power  of  life  and  death,  and  his  will  was  law  in  all 
cases  throughout  his  dominions — devoting  time  and  talents 
to  the  slow  and  painful  labour  of  translating  the  sacred 
Scriptures,  and  copying  out  the  work  for  the  press  with  his 
own  hand,  that  he  might  be  the  means  of  bestowing  upon 
his  people  the  greatest  earthly  boon  which  God  has  bestowed 
upon  man  ^.' 

'Sept.  30. — On  Friday  night  we  retired  to  rest,  but 
waked  not  till  Sunday  morning,  though  the  interval  allowed 
for  sleep  had  not  been  longer  than  usual !  This  was  the 
consequence  of  a  miscalculation  by  Captain  James  Wilson 
and  the  first  missionaries  who  settled  here.  Coming  from 
the  east,  and  keeping  up  the  reckoning  with  which  they 
set  out,  they  gained  a  day  instead  of  dropping  one,  not 
bearing  in  mind  that  as  London  comes  under  the  meridian 
ten  hours  earlier  than  Tahiti,  which  is  150°  of  longitude  to 
the  west,  the  day  at  the  latter  place  is  proportionably 
later.  Some  inconvenience  has  been  suffered  from  this 
mistake,  since  the  intercourse  with  Europeans  has  become 
more  frequent  than  formerly  here  ;  but  not  so  much  as  to 
induce  the  missionaries  to  correct  it,  at  the  hazard  of  occa- 
sioning worse  confusion  in  the  eyes  of  a  people  to  whom  it 
would  probably  be  difficult  to  make  the  change  intelligible  ". 

'  This  has  been  to  us,  at  Matavai,  a  Sabbath  of  peculiar 
enjoyment  and  sanctity.     At  sunrise  we  went  to  the  chapel 

^  Journal  of  Voyages  and  Travels,  i.  61,  ^  Journal,  i,  67, 

2  The  alteration  was  made  by  the  French  about  1844. 


JOURNAL    OF  THE  DEPUTATION,   1821  235 

on  the  beach,  near  Mr.  Nott's  house  —  a  neat  structure, 
having  bamboo  walls,  thatched  with  palm-leaves,  furnished 
with  benches  made  of  bread-fruit-tree  planks,  and  capable 
of  holding  about  four  hundred  persons.  It  is  now  used 
only  as  a  school  and  prayer- meeting  house.  On  our 
arrival  we  found  the  place  filled  with  natives  of  both 
sexes  and  various  ages.  They  were  all  kneeling,  while 
one  of  them  was  offering  up  prayer  in  the  most  fervent 
and  devout  manner.  Scarcely  a  head  was  lifted  up  when 
we  entered,  and  stepped  as  softly  as  might  be  to  a  place 
near  the  person  who  v/as  officiating  at  the  time.  When  he 
had  finished  his  address  to  the  Deity,  he  gave  out  a  hymn, 
which  was  sung  with  much  animation  by  the  people.  He 
then  read  a  portion  of  St.  John's  Gospel,  many  of  those 
who  were  present  producing  their  Testaments,  and  following 
his  voice  with  their  eyes  on  the  words  of  the  book.  Another 
prayer  was  then  offered  up,  and  the  assembly  departed  in 
the  most  quiet  and  becoming  order  ^.' 

After  visiting  Tahiti  and  Eimeo,  and  making  the  acquain- 
tance of  the  whole  missionary  staff  on  those  islands,  Messrs. 
Tyerman  and  Bennet  visited  the  Leeward  Islands,  and 
thence  sailed  to  the  Sandwich  Islands,  intending  also  to 
go  on  to  the  Marquesas,  but  this  they  were  not  able  to 
accomplish.  On  their  return,  the  Leeward  Islands  were 
revisited,  special  attention  being  given  to  Raiatea,  on  account 
of  its  most  attractive  Christian  history,  and  also  because  it 
had  formerly  been  the  very  centre  and  sacred  place  of  the 
heathen  superstition  and  sanguinary  worship. 

^  Nov.  30. — We  have  just  returned  from  a  visit  to  Opoa, 
the  metropolis  of  idolatry,  not  in  Raiatea  only,  but  through- 
out all  the  South  Pacific  Islands,  within  a  compass  of  five 
hundred  miles.  Hither,  from  every  shore,  human  victims, 
ready  slain,  were  sent  to  be  offered  on  the  altar  of  Oro,  the 
god  of  war,  whose  principal  image  was  worshipped  here, 
with  the  most  bloody  and  detestable  rites.  To  describe 
the  various  maraes  and  their  appurtenances,  the  priests  and 
their  sorceries,  the  sacrifices,  feastings,  and  fightings  of  the 

^  Journal  of  Voyages  and  Travels,  i.  68. 


236  THE  FIRST  GREAT  VICTORY 

votaries  at  this  hideous  rendezvous,  would  only  be  to 
exhibit,  in  aggravated  language,  scenes  of  disgusting 
horror.  Opoa  was  also  the  residence  of  the  kings  of 
this  island,  v/ho,  beside  the  prerogatives  of  royalty,  enjoyed 
divine  honours,  and  were  in  fact  living  idols  among  the 
dead  ones,  being  deified  at  the  time  of  their  accession 
to  political  supremacy  here.  In  the  latter  character,  we 
presume,  it  was  that  these  sovereigns  (who  always  took 
the  name  of  Tamatoa)  were  wont  to  receive  presents  from 
the  kings  and  chiefs  of  adjacent  and  distant  islands,  whose 
gods  were  all  considered  tributary  to  the  Oro  of  Raiatea, 
and  their  princes  owing  homage  to  its  monarch,  who  was 
Oro's  hereditary  high-priest,  as  well  as  an  independent 
divinity  himself.  Happily  nothing  but  the  ruins  of  maraes 
remain,  and  Opoa,  flourishing  in  all  the  unpruned  luxuriance 
of  tropical  vegetation,  is  one  of  the  loveliest  and  most 
peaceful  spots  in  all  these  regions  of  beauty  and  fertility. 
The  population,  since  the  removal  of  the  King  and  his 
family  to  the  missionary  station,  on  the  shore,  having 
forsaken  their  former  haunts,  this  place,  which  for  ages 
scarcely  knew  quiet  by  day  or  by  night,  is  now  a  solitude^.' 

On  April  24,  1824,  almost  three  years  after  their  arrival, 
the  Deputation  took  their  leave  of  Tahiti  and  its  mission- 
aries. Calling  successively  at  Eimeo,  Huahine,  Tahaa, 
Raiatea,  and  Borabora,  on  June  7  they  bade  farewell  to  the 
Georgian  and  Society  Islands.  In  the  '  Farewell  Letter  ^  ' 
which  they  addressed  to  the  missionaries  they  rejoice  in 
the  marvellous  achievements  of  the  past,  and  also  show 
that  they  were  fully  alive  to  the  defects  and  dangers  of 
the  present. 

'  It  is  true,'  they  remark,  *  that  though  wonders  have  been 
wrought  by  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  and  the  power  of 
the  Spirit  of  God,  everything  has  not  been  achieved  that 
Christian  philanthropy  is  anxious  to  behold.  Though  all 
name  the  name  of  Jesus,  all  do  not  depart  from  iniquity: 
while  the  appearance  of  religion  is  seen  in  the  mass  of  the 
people,  there  are  many  individuals  who  disregard  its  solemn 

^  Jotirnal  of  Voyages  and  Travels,  i.  529.  ^  j^j^j   jj    iqi-i  14. 


FAREWELL   LETTER   OF  THE  DEPUTATION     237 

sanctions.  Where  but  a  few  years  ago  nothing  but  crime 
was  to  be  seen,  and  that  of  the  foulest  nature  that  men  in  their 
worst  state  could  commit,  you  are  not  to  be  surprised  at  the 
few  crimes  which  are  still  committed  :  where  all  trifled  with 
religion,  be  not  surprised  that  some  treat  it  with  neglect : 
where  all  were  cruel  idolaters  in  practice,  be  not  astonished 
that  there  are  those  who  retain  the  world  as  an  idol  in  their 
hearts  :  where  all  were  led  captive  by  Satan,  be  not  dis- 
heartened because  some  are  still  willing  to  bear  his  yoke^.' 

The  letter  further  urges  the  maintenance  of  a  high 
standard  for  admission  to  the  church,  and  the  careful  and 
persistent  instruction  of  the  young.  It  rejoices  over  the 
success  of  the  natives  themselves  in  carrying  the  Gospel  to 
islands  yet  heathen,  and  it  looks  on  to  the  time  when 
European  missionaries  will  be  no  longer  needed.  To  this 
end  they  urge  the  opening  of  a  college  for  native  teachers. 
They  rejoice  in  the  systems  of  law  gradually  coming  into 
force,  and  the  progress  of  civilization. 

'  While  we  see.  with  great  satisfaction,  all  these  islands 
living  under  just  and  humane  laws,  and  blessed  with  all  the 
institutions  of  the  Gospel  in  full  operation,  we  rejoice  in  the 
progress  which  civilization  has  made  in  islands  so  lately  m 
the  depths  of  barbarism  and  the  grossest  superstition. 
That,  in  so  short  a  period  since  the  downfall  of  idolatry, 
so  many  of  the  people  should  have  become  acquainted  with 
the  arts  of  reading,  writing,  and  arithmetic — so  many  excel- 
lent places  of  worship  and  comfortable  dwelling-houses 
built — such  a  complete  change  effected  in  the  manners  of 
the  people,  from  gross  sensuality  to  the  greatest  decency 
and  good  behaviour, — these  are  facts  so  singular  that  we  are 
at  a  loss  to  express  our  gratitude  to  God,  while  we  would 
encourage  you,  dear  brethren,  to  aim  at  still  greater  things 
— the  entire  extirpation  of  every  remaining  evil  ^.' 

'  Journal  0/  Voyages  and  Travels,  ii.  102.  '  Ibid.  ii.  no. 

[Authorities. — Original  Journal  and  Letters  ;  Transactions  0/  (he  Society; 
Annual  Reports ;  Journal  of  Voyages  and  Travels  by  the  Rev.  Daniel  Tyerman 
and  George  Bennet,  Esq.,  London,  1831.] 


CHAPTER    VI 


THE   ISLES   BEYOND 


The  little  band  of  missionaries  who  reached  Eimeo  on 
November  17,  1817,  had  hardly  become  used  to  life  on 
shore,  after  their  long  voyage,  before  serious  consideration 
was  given  to  the  claims  of  other  islands  which  were  crying 
out  for  the  Gospel.  That  deliberation  soon  became  action 
does  not  surprise  us  when  we  remember  that  John  WilHams 
was  one  of  the  new-comers. 

We  have  now  reached  the  point  when  the  centre  of  the 
missionary  enterprise  in  Polynesia  is  found  in  a  new  and 
forceful  personality.  The  determining  and  steadying  power 
of  the  first  twenty-five  years  was  the  resolution,  the  faith, 
the  perseverance  of  Henry  Nott.  The  time  in  God's 
providence  for  a  rapid  and  wide  extension  of  the  Gospel 
had  come,  and  for  this  purpose  He  had  fitted  and  sent  out 
John  Williams,  a  man  of  restless  energy,  of  sunny  tempera- 
ment, of  strong  self-confidence,  of  bold  initiative,  of  resolute 
faith.  This  remarkable  man  was  born  at  Tottenham  High 
Cross,  London,  June  29,  1796,  and  hence  he  was  barely  six 
weeks  old  when  the  Duff  sailed  on  her  first  voyage.  He 
was  the  son  of  Christian  parents,  and  was  carefully  trained 
by  his  mother.  Traces  of  mechanical  ability  early  exhibited 
themselves  ;  he  was  at  the  call  of  the  family  whenever 
anything  had  to  be  done,  and  was  '  a  handy  lad.'  He  was 
apprenticed  for  seven  years,  on  March  27,  1810,  to  an 
ironmonger  in  the  City  Road,  and,  although  intended 
for  the  shop  rather  than  the  workroom,  he  loved  to  handle 


EARLY  LIFE   OF  JOHN   WILLIAMS  239 

the  tools,  and  soon  became  exceedingly  expert  in  their 
use.  His  master  often  'found  it  for  his  own  interest  to 
request  him  to  execute  orders  in  which  great  delicacy  and 
exactness  were  required.' 

Although  living  a  strictly  upright  and  outwardly  moral 
life,  he  was  fast  drifting  into  irreligious  habits,  when 
on  Sunday,  January  30,  i<^i4,  Mrs.  Tonkin,  the  wife 
of  his  master,  met  him  in  the  street,  waiting  for  some 
companions  with  whom  he  was  to  pass  the  evening  at 
a  tavern.  She  recognized  him  by  the  light  of  a  lamp, 
stopped  first  to  question,  and  then  to  warn  him,  and  finally 
induced  him  to  go  with  her  to  the  Moorfields  Tabernacle, 
of  which  Matthew  Wilks  was  then  pastor.  Very  reluctantly 
he  went.  The  Rev.  Timothy  East,  of  Birmingham,  was 
preaching  that  evening  from  the  text,  '  What  is  a  man 
profited,  if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his 
own  soul  ? '  The  supreme  moment  in  his  life  came  then  to 
John  Williams,  as  it  often  does  come  to  men,  unexpected 
and  unforeseen,  and  led  up  to  by  unpremeditated  actions. 
Twenty-four  years  afterwards,  in  1838,  preaching  from  the 
pulpit  which  Mr.  East  occupied  on  that  eventful  evening, 
John  Williams  said,  '  I  have  all  the  circumstances  of  that 
important  era  in  my  history  vividly  impressed  upon  my 
mind ;  and  I  have  in  my  eye  at  this  instant  the  particular 
spot  on  which  I  took  my  seat.'  '  From  that  hour,'  he  wrote 
upon  another  occasion,  '  my  blind  eyes  were  opened,  and 
I  beheld  wondrous  things  out  of  God's  law.'  He  became 
a  regular  attendant  at  the  Tabernacle,  and  in  September, 
1 814,  joined  the  Church  by  open  profession  of  love  to 
Christ,  and  consecration  to  His  service.  He  took  part  in 
the  prayer-meetings  and  other  gatherings  of  the  Church, 
and  became  a  zealous  Sunday-school  teacher. 

Matthew  Wilks,  one  of  the  most  influential  founders 
and  advisers  of  the  London  ^Missionary  Society,  did  not 
allow  the  Anniversary  of  18 15  to  pass  without  special 
celebration.  From  Africa  there  were  encouraging  tidings 
of  success,  but  from  Tahiti  had  come  the  soul-stirring  news 
of  triumphs  almost  too  great  to  be  believed.     Quarterly 


240  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

meetings  for  prayer  and  conference  about  missionary- 
matters  were  instituted,  and  at  one  of  these  the  desire  to 
give  himself  up  to  this  work  took  possession  of  the  soul  of 
John  WilHams.  In  July^  i8j6,  he  offered  his  services 
to  the  Directors.  The  letter  in  which  he  made  his  formal 
application  to  them  lies  before  us  as  we  write,  and  the  old, 
time-worn  wrapper  is  endorsed,  'Read  July  29,  1816. 
Referred  to  the  Com®®  of  Examination.' 

This  letter  fills  four  pages  of  quarto  size,  and  contains  an 
account  of  his  religious  experience,  of  his  creed,  and  of 
how  he  came  to  think  of  being  a  missionary.  The  first 
sentence  of  the  letter  is  very  characteristic,  and  runs : 
'  My  much  Respected  Fathers  in  Christ, — I,  John  Williams, 
a  Candidate  for  the  Office  of  a  Missionary,  take  the 
liberty  of  offering  the  following  representation  for  your 
perusal,  in  which  I  have  endeavour'd  to  be  as  frank,  &  as 
plain  as  possible.  If  this  representation,  and  the  Account 
the  Reverend  Mr.  Wilks  can  give  of  me  should  not  meet 
with  your  Conscientious  Approbation,  I  hope,  pray  &  trust 
you  will,  by  no  means,  for  the  sake  of  my  Soul,  offer  me  the 
least  encouragement ;  but,  on  the  contrary,  if  they  should 
meet  with  your  approbation  I  hope  &  trust  you  will  not 
offer  the  least  discouragment.' 

John  Williams  was  accepted  when  only  just  past  his 
twentieth  birthday,  and  thus  began  the  career  so  full  of  after 
blessing  to  Polynesia.  In  his  case,  as  in  that  of  most  of 
his  co-workers,  the  need  for  a  thorough  and  careful 
education  was  not  realized.  In  addition  to  this,  the  call  for 
more  helpers  was  so  imperative  that  almost  immediately 
he  was  enabled  to  realize  his  heart's  desire.  On  October 
29,  1 816,  he  was  married  to  Miss  Mary  Chauner,  also  a 
member  of  the  Tabernacle  Church,  and  prior  to  this,  on 
September  30,  he,  with  eight  others,  was  solemnly  ordained 
to  missionary  work.  No  service  of  the  kind  since  the 
memorable  gathering  on  July  28,  1796,  had  aroused  such 
widespread  interest  and  stirred  siich  deep  feeling.  In 
Surrey  Chapel,  an  immense  congregation  gathered  on  an 
occasion  which  must  ever  be  memorable  in  the  annals  of 


WILLIAMS  AND  MOFFAT  ORDAINED  241 

the    Society  as  that  which   sent   forth   John  Williams  to 
Polynesia  and  Robert  Moffat  to  South  Africa. 

'  The  African  missionaries  were  Messrs.  John  Taylor, 
James  Kitchingman,  Evan  Evans,  John  Brownlee,  and 
Robert  Moffat.  The  brethren  for  Tahiti  and  its  adjacent 
islands  were  Messrs.  David  Darling,  George  Piatt,  Robert 
Bourne,  and  John  Williams.  The  engagements  of  the  day 
were  commenced  by  prayer.  This  was  presented  by  the 
late  Mr.  Rayson,  then  of  Wakefield,  but  subsequently  of 
Tonbridge  Chapel,  London.  Dr.  Leifchild,  then  of  Ken- 
sington, deUvered  an  introductory  discourse,  and  proposed 
to  the  missionaries  the  usual  questions.  To  these  enquiries 
satisfactory  answers  were  returned,  and  when  it  is  re- 
membered that  in  this  way  nine  young  men  testified,  in 
the  midst  of  the  Church  and  in  the  face  of  the  world,  that 
they  loved  the  souls  and  desired  the  salvation  of  the 
heathen  above  kindred  and  country,  we  need  not  wonder 
that  "the  numerous  audience  appeared  to  be  deeply 
affected."  These  replies  having  been  concluded,  the  Rev. 
George  Burder  and  John  Angell  James  stood  forward  and. 
in  the  name  of  the  Society,  presented  a  Bible  to  each  of 
the  brethren,  as  a  token  of  regard,  the  bond  of  their  union, 
the  basis  of  their  efforts,  and  the  pledge  of  their  support. 
"  I  shall  never  forget,"  said  Mr.  Williams,  many  years  after 
this  interesting  scene,  "the  impression  produced  upon  my 
mind  by  the  solemn  manner  in  which  our  beloved  brother. 
Mr.  James,  of  Birmingham,  put  the  Bible  into  my  hand. 
With  all  the  affection  for  which  he  is  distinguished,  and 
with  all  the  power  and  impressiveness  of  his  manner,  he 
said,  '  Go,  my  beloved  brother,  and,  with  the  ability  which 
God  has  given  you,  be  faithful  in  season  and  out  of  season, 
in  proclaiming  the  precious  truths  which  that  volume 
contains;'  and  then  good  Dr.  Waugh,  with  heaven  beaming 
on  his  benevolent  countenance,  and  the  big  tear  of  aftection 
glistening  in  his  intelligent  eye,  speaking  to  me  upon  my 
youthful  appearance,  said,  '  Go,  my  dear  young  brother, 
and  if  your  tongue  cleave  to  the  roof  of  your  mouth,  let 
it  be  with  telling  poor  sinners  of  the  love  of  Jesus  Christ ; 

I.  R 


242  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

and  if  your  arms  drop  from  your  shoulders,  let  it  be  with 
knocking  at  men's  hearts  to  gain  admittance  for  Him 
there '."  After  the  presentation  of  the  Bibles,  this  venerated 
man  offered  prayer  for  the  missionaries  and  their  wives,  to 
whom  two  charges  containing  counsels  and  encouragements 
were  then  addressed  by  the  late  Dr.  Winter  and  the  Rev. 
John  Campbell.  Singing  and  supplication  closed  and 
sanctified  the  solemn  service  ^' 

Other  workers  for  the  same  field  had  already  started  : 
Ellis  and  Threlkeld,  afterwards  to  be  the  colleague  of 
Williams  on  Raiatea,  sailed  in  January ;  Orsmond  and 
Barff  in  July;  and  on  November  17,  1816,  John  Williams 
sailed  for  Sydney  in  the  Harriet,  and  landed  there,  May  12, 
1817.  The  difficulties  of  communication  with  Tahiti  are 
illustrated  by  the  fact  that  they  were  unable  to  secure  a 
passage  thither  until  September  4,  upon  which  date  they 
sailed  in  the  Active.  Visiting  New  Zealand  on  the  way, 
and  thus  becoming  acquainted  at  first  hand  with  the 
missionary  work  going  on  there,  Tahiti  was  sighted  on 
November  16,  and  on  the  following  day,  exactly  twelve 
months  after  sailing  from  London,  they  landed  at  Papetoai, 
on  the  island  of  Eimeo.  On  November  19,  a  Wednesday, 
Williams  attended  a  native  service  in  the  chapel  at 
Papetoai,  and  his  comment  is  characteristic  of  the  man. 
'  Here  my  eyes  beheld  seven  or  eight  hundred  people, 
who,  not  five  years  ago,  were  worshipping  idols,  and 
wallowing  in  most  dreadful  wickedness,  now  praying  to 
and  praising  our  Lord  God,  Surely,  thought  I,  the  work 
is  done ;  there  is  no  need  of  us,  though  there  are  hundreds 
in  these  islands  who  do  not  know  our  Lord  and  Saviour ; 
they  are  as  eager  to  learn  as  a  miser  is  to  get  money.' 
We  shall  see  later  on  that  he,  unhappily,  found  only  too 
abundant  grounds  for  moderating  this  first  most  favourable 
impression  ;  but  he  never  lost  his  eager  desire  for  the 
isles  beyond. 

Mr.  Williams  spent  some  months  in  Eimeo,  and  there, 

'  Memoirs  of  the  Life  of  the  Rev.  John  Williams,  by  Ebenezer  Prout  (1843), 
PP-  34.  35' 


REINFORCEMENTS  AT  TAHITI 


243 


on  January  7,  i8i8,  his  first  child  was  born.  During  the 
earlier  years  of  the  Tahiti  Mission,  the  duty  of  carrying 
the  Gospel,  as  soon  as  possible,  to  the  surrounding  islands 
was  admitted  by  all.  But  no  permanent  settlement  there 
was  attempted  until  1818.  The  older  missionaries  very 
naturally  preferred  to  toil  amid  the  scenes  of  their  former 
sufferings  and  disappointments.  On  June  18,  Davies, 
together  with  Williams,  Ellis,  and  Orsmond,  accompanied 
by  their  wives  and  several  chiefs,  sailed  from  Eimeo  and 
landed  at  Fare  harbour,  in  Huahine,  on  June  20.  Visitors 
from  the  neighbouring  islands  soon  began  to  assemble 
at  the  mission-house,  the  principal  being  Tamatoa,  the 
chief  of  Raiatea.  He  was  very  eager  that  a  missionary 
should  come  and  reside  upon  his  own  island,  and  when 
the  senior  members  of  the  mission  declined  to  go,  Williams 
and  Threlkeld  gladly  complied  with  his  request.  They 
landed  upon  Raiatea,  September  11,  1818. 

Meanwhile,  Davies,  Barff,  Ellis,  and  Orsmond  had  settled 
down  to  work  in  Huahine.  When  idolatry  had  been  over- 
thrown in  Tahiti,  Mahine,  the  King  of  Huahine,  sent  one  of 
his  principal  chiefs  to  burn  the  idols,  destroy  the  temples, 
and  cause  idolatrous  worship  and  ceremonies  to  cease. 
This  was  done,  and  nearly  led  to  civil  war,  although 
ultimately  both  parties  wisely  determined  to  wait  until 
missionaries  could  be  sent  to  instruct  them.  When  the 
missionaries  landed  in  1818,  the  island  was  nominally 
Christian,  yet  only  very  few  of  the  natives  can  have 
had  any  but  the  scantiest  knowledge  of  Christianity,  and 
nothing  beyond  the  feeblest  comprehension  of  its  moral 
and  spiritual  claims  and  restraints. 

The  printing-press  which  had  been  of  such  great  service 
at  Afareaitu,  Mr.  Ellis  took  with  him  to  Huahine.  This 
did  not  meet  with  the  approval  of  the  older  missionaries, 
who  thought,  and  probably  with  much  justice,  that  Tahiti 
was  its  proper  place.  Mr.  Bourne  had  brought  out  with 
him  a  small  press  and  a  limited  supply  of  type,  and  as 
these  were  at  Burder's  Point,  Ellis  probably  thought  he 
might   disregard   the  wishes  of  the  others   on  this   point. 

R  1 


244  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

After  a  close  study  of  all  the  original  documents  available, 
candour  compels  one  to  state  that  however  well  the 
missionaries  were  agreed  upon  the  fundamental  questions, 
they  often  showed  a  remarkable  power  of  differing  as  to 
details,  and  they  were  not  averse  to  somewhat  trenchant 
criticism  of  one  another's  actions.  If  Mr.  Ellis,  when  he 
became  at  a  later  date  Foreign  Secretary,  consulted  the 
correspondence  of  this  period  he  must  have  been  interested 
in  seeing  how  his  Tahitian  brethren  felt  about  the  removal 
of  the  press  to  what  they  considered  an  out-of-the-way 
island. 

An  account  of  the  early  progress  of  work  in  Huahine 
is  given  in  the  '  First  Report/  a  four-page  leaflet  dated 
December,  1819,  and  printed  by  Mr.  Ellis  at  the  mission- 
press.  After  sketching  the  origin  of  the  mission  and  the 
organization  of  the  Missionary  Auxiliary  in  May,  1819,  it 
proceeds : — 

'  At  Fare,  the  district  where  we  reside,  the  preaching 
of  the  word  has  been  regularly  attended  ever  since  our 
arrival ;  for  several  months  past  we  have  also  had  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  our  congregation  considerably  increased. 
Two  of  our  number  have  itinerated  every  Sabbath  (with 
few  exceptions)  to  Maeva,  Parea,  and  Mahapu  ;  three  of 
the  most  populous  districts  in  the  island.  A  congregation 
of  300  or  400  usually  collect  at  each  of  these  places. 

*  During  the  past  year,  our  number  of  scholars  at  this 
place  has  been  considerably  augmented  ;  besides  which  we 
have  a  school  at  Maeva,  and  another  at  Mahapu,  under  the 
care  of  native  teachers,  and  superintended  by  those  who 
visit  them.  We  have  also  a  Sunday-school  at  each  of  the 
above-mentioned  places. 

'  We  have  also  been  enabled  to  put  another  portion  of  the 
word  of  God  into  the  hands  of  the  people,  an  edition  of 
2,000  copies  of  the  Gospel  of  Matthew,  which  we  finished 
printing  in  October  last ;  they  were  sought  with  avidity, 
and  received  with  gratitude  by  all. 

'On  account  of  the  local  circumstances  of  the  missionaries 
and  people  previous  to  their  settlement  at  their  respective 


JOHN  WILLIAMS  AT  RAIATEA  245 

stations,  none  of  the  natives  were  baptized ;  we  have, 
however,  had  several  under  preparatory  instruction  since 
our  establishment  here,  and  on  September  12  we  had  the 
happiness  to  baptize  fifteen  who  were  considered  proper 
subjects,  among  whom  were  Mahine  and  Hautia,  the 
principal  chiefs  of  the  island.' 

During  181 9  Nott  and  Davies  were  busily  occupied, 
instructing  their  newly-arrived  brethren  in  the  language, 
preaching  to  the  natives,  and  revising  the  translation  of 
the  Scriptures  for  the  press.  *  My  intimate  acquaintance 
with  all  that  had  been  printed,'  writes  Mr.  Ellis,  '  afforded 
me  greater  facility  in  prosecuting  the  study  of  Tahitian. 
In  less  than  a  year  I  was  able  to  converse  with  the 
people  on  common  topics,  and  I  preached  my  first  sermon 
in  Tahitian  in  November,  1818.'  In  1819  Mr.  Nott 
returned  to  Tahiti. 

Meanwhile  at  Raiatea  John  Williams  was  entering  upon 
his  new  and  to  him  most  grateful  work.  Raiatea,  the 
Ulitea  of  Captain  Cook,  the  largest  island  of  the  Society 
group,  lies  due  west  of  Fare,  at  a  distance  of  about  thirty 
miles,  and  its  mountains  are  visible  from  Huahine.  It  is 
about  fifty  miles  in  circumference,  and  is  surrounded  by 
a  magnificent  reef,  which  also  encloses,  six  miles  to  the 
northward,  the  island  of  Tahaa.  There  are  many  openings 
in  the  reef,  wide  and  deep  enough  to  admit  the  largest 
vessels  into  the  lagoon,  which  affords  safe  anchorage  and 
a  splendid  harbour.  The  mountains  of  the  interior  rise  to 
a  height  of  2, coo  feet,  and,  as  at  Tahiti,  a  belt  of  arable 
land  lies  between  the  mountains  and  the  sea,  broken  up 
here  and  there  by  glens  and  valleys. 

Raiatea  had  been  the  centre  of  the  worship  of  Oro. 
Human  sacrifices  without  number  had  been  offered  to 
appease  this  sanguinary  idol,  and  all  the  foulest  abomina- 
tions and  darkest  superstitions  of  Polynesia  had  been 
rampant  here.  In  1816  Pomare,  with  Mr.  Wilson  and 
nineteen  Tahitians,  had,  while  on  board  a  small  vessel, 
been  driven  here  by  a  gale,  and  stayed,  kindly  entreated 
by  the  inhabitants,  for  three  months.    Mr. Wilson  preached  ; 


246  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

Pomare  threw  the  weight  of  his  influence  on  the  side  of 
Christianity ;  Tamatoa,  the  supreme  chief,  and  some  of  his 
nobles  were  convinced,  and  abandoned  many  of  their 
heathen  practices.  Tamatoa  built  a  chapel,  resolved  to 
keep  Sunday  a  holy  day,  and  held  meetings  from  time  to 
time  to  talk  over  what  they  had  been  taught.  It  was 
these  facts,  well  known  at  the  time,  which  made  Williams 
and  Threlkeld  so  anxious  to  respond  to  the  invitation  of 
Tamatoa.  A  circular,  dated  September  5,  1819,  is  prac- 
tically the  first  annual  report  of  mission-work  at  this,  the 
third  centre  of  labour  in  the  South  Seas  : — 

'  Since  the  formation  of  the  mission  on  Raiatea  we  have 
had  to  mingle  tears  of  regret  with  our  rejoicings ;  and  it  is 
with  sorrow  that  we  view  the  prevailing  influence  of  sin 
over  multitudes  of  the  natives  in  these  islands.  We  sin- 
cerely deplore  the  ill  effects  produced  by  the  wicked  con- 
duct of  some,  who  from  time  to  time  visit  those  islands. 
In  this,  as  in  every  other  part  of  the  world  where 
Christianity  has  obtained  an  entrance,  the  number  of  those 
who  profess  is  far  greater  than  the  number  of  those  who 
really  feel  the  power  of  vital  religion.  After  great  labour 
we  have  obtained  comfortable  dwellings.  Several  of  the 
natives  have  made  neat  dwelling-houses,  and  plastered 
them  inside  and  out.  We  hope  soon  to  make  them  utterly 
ashamed  of  their  continued  practices  of  sleeping  together 
as  a  flock  of  sheep  ;  and  we  are  determinately  desirous  of 
introducing  among  them  those  habits  which  will  contribute 
to  their  temporal  felicity,  and  prepare  them  for  domestic 
life. 

'  Many  have  made  considerable  progress  in  learning  ; 
can  say  the  multiplication  table  offhand,  work  the  most 
difficult  long  division  sums  without  an  error,  and  sums 
in  reduction  without  a  mistake.  Thus  they  encourage 
their  teachers  to  greater  diligence.  Nor  are  they  backward 
in  useful  arts.  The  greater  part  of  the  natives  are  very 
regular  in  their  attendance  on  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel, 
and  the  chapel  is  frequently  crowded  an  hour  before  the 
time  of  public  worship.' 


MISSIONARY  MEETING   AT  RAIATEA  247 

An  auxiliary  missionary  society  was  formed,  and  many 
speeches  made,  of  which  we  quote  one  : — 

*Tuahine^,  one  of  the  cleverest  men  we  have,  then  stood 
up  and  said,  "  Friends,  the  kings,  chiefs,  and  all  of  you  : 
we  have  heard  much  speech  to-day ;  do  not  be  tired  : 
I  also  have  a  little  to  say.  Whence  come  the  great  waters  ? 
Is  it  not  from  the  small  streams  that  flow  into  them?  If 
there  were  no  little  streams  there  would  be  no  great  bodies 
of  water.  T  have  been  thinking  that  the  Missionary  Society 
in  Britain  is  like  the  great  water,  and  that  such  little  societies 
as  ours  are  like  the  little  streams.  Let  there  be  many  little 
streams  ;  let  not  ours  be  dry.  Let  missionaries  be  sent  to 
every  land.  We  are  far  better  off  now  than  we  used  to  be. 
We  do  not  now  sleep  with  our  cartridges  under  our  heads, 
our  guns  by  our  sides,  and  our  hearts  in  fear.  Our  children 
are  not  now  strangled,  nor  our  brothers  killed  for  sacrifices 
to  the  lying  spirit  ;  it  is  because  of  the  good  work  of  God. 
He  sent  His  word  and  missionaries  to  teach  us,  and  we  hope- 
there  are  some  who  have  already  believed." 

'  There  were  many  propositions  made  and  carried  by 
a  unanimous  holding  up  of  the  naked  arm.  The  whole 
was  conducted  with  a  degree  of  interesting  simplicity  and 
affection  that  fanned  the  spark  of  zeal  and  excited  the 
tear  of  holy  gratitude.  The  friends  of  Jerusalem  in  London 
never  witnessed  such  a  scene.' 

Prior  to  the  general  acceptance  of  Christianity,  every 
attempt  at  civilizing  the  natives  in  Tahiti  was  an  absolute 
failure.  In  Huahine  and  Raiatea  the  natives  had  been 
even  harder  to  move.  Consequently  the  swift  progress 
they  made,  under  the  guidance  and  the  impulse  of  John 
Williams,  in  some  of  the  arts  of  European  life  is  very 
remarkable.  They  rapidly  learned  how  to  carpenter  and 
to  do  smith's  work,  and  they  soon  became  both  willing  and 
eager  to  build  separate  houses  for  each  family,  after  the 
example  set  by  the  Europeans.  All  the  natives  in  both 
the    Windward    and   Leeward    Islands    had    been    in    the 

'  This  man  was  one  of  the  t^o  praying  natives  of  Tahiti,  as  described  on 
page  201. 


248  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

habit  of  sleeping  together  in  large  numbers.  Under  one 
roof  as  many  as  thirty,  forty,  or  sixty  men,  women,  and 
children  went  to  rest.  They  slept  upon  the  floor  on  mats, 
the  chief  being  distinguished  only  by  the  larger  number 
and  superior  quality  of  the  mats  upon  which  he  reposed. 
Privacy  was  unknown,  and  the  moral  effect  of  this  state 
was  necessarily  most  pernicious.  It  was  due  largely  to 
superstition.  Night  was  the  season  when  the  evil  spirits  were 
near  and  powerful.  Consequently  the  larger  the  number 
sleeping  together  the  greater  the  common  safety.  This 
custom,  by  no  means  the  least  influential  of  those  hostile 
both  to  Christianity  and  to  common  decency,  the  mission- 
aries had  to  combat.  This  they  did  at  Raiatea  and  else- 
where by  stimulating  the  natives  in  every  legitimate  way 
to  build  and  occupy  homes  of  their  own,  each  family  by 
itself. 

On  May  12,  1819,  a  code  of  laws,  drawn  up  by  the 
missionaries  and  approved  by  Tamatoa,  was  formally 
adopted.  The  distinguishing  feature  of  this  code  was 
the  introduction  of  trial  by  jury.  This  in  itself  was  an 
enormous  advance,  since  hitherto  the  chief's  word  had 
been  law,  and  in  the  most  absolute  sense  '  the  king  could 
do  no  wrong.'  Now,  to  some  extent,  even  the  chiefs 
power  came  under  the  restraint  of  law.  Pahi,  brother  of 
Tamatoa,  a  man  of  high  standing  and  character,  became 
chief  justice.  The  need  for  superintendence  by  the  mis- 
sionaries in  the  administration  of  a  brand-new  code  and 
system  of  this  kind  was  imperative.  Writing  on  June  8, 
1821,  Threlkeld  and  Williams  say,  'A  few  blunders  were 
made  in  the  form,  such  as  the  judge's  passing  sentence 
before  he  addressed  the  jury  ;  but  it  being  the  first  trial  by 
jury,  this  was  very  excusable.' 

At  first  John  Williams  seemed  inclined  to  consider 
Raiatea  his  settled  residence  and  place  of  work.  But  so 
small  an  island  afforded  no  sufficient  scope  for  the  rest- 
less energy  he  possessed.  His  correspondence  with  the 
Directors  from  1820  to  1823  is  of  an  unusually  frank  and 
interesting  order.     He  puts   his  facts  in   a  very  pointed 


WILLIAMS'    VIEWS   ON  EXTENSION  249 

and  common-sense  fashion,  and  he  dwells  with  special 
force  upon  some  of  those  which  were  least  palatable  to  the 
authorities  at  home.  A  long  letter  dated  June  7,  1820, 
deals  with  the  two  important  subjects  of  how  the  mis- 
sionaries were  to  be  supported,  and  how  their  children  were 
to  be  cared  for,  educated,  and  sent  out  into  life.  The 
feeling  that  his  faith  and  zeal  and  labour  are  not  being 
expended  to  the  best  advantage  he  thus  expresses,  and  in 
so  doing  he  gives  us  the  views  of  a  very  competent  critic 
of  Polynesian  affairs,  when  we  have  made  the  needful  cor- 
rection due  to  the  fact  that  he  had  been  only  three  years 
in  the  field  : — 

'  As  I  understood  there  were  only  five  or  six  thousand 
persons  at  Tahiti  and  eight  or  nine  missionaries  to  supply 
them,  I  naturally  expected  to  find  about  28,000  persons 
in  the  Leeward  Islands  to  which  I  was  going.  I  w^as  quite 
angry  with  my  brethren,  Piatt,  Bourne,  and  Darling,  for 
staying  to  windward  while  there  were  so  many  mis- 
sionaries to  so  few  people.  But  behold  !  after  two  years' 
travelling  about  in  the  Leeward  Islands,  I  am  concerned  to 
say  that  I  can  find  not  more,  or  very  few  more  than  4,000 
in  them.  I  know  that  one  soul  is  infinitely  more  value 
than  my  body  or  a  thousand  bodies,  but  how  does  the 
merchant  act  who  goes  in  search  of  goodly  pearls  ?  Sup- 
posing he  knows  where  there  is  one  pearl  which  would 
pay  him  for  his  trouble,  and  he  knows  where  there  are 
thousands  of  equal  value,  to  which  place  would  he  direct 
his  course  ? ' 

In  the  light  of  these  considerations  he  urges  the  Directors 
to  send  him  elsewhere  to  labour  among  the  tens  and  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  who  were  crying,  '  Come  over  and  help 
us,'  alleging  among  other  reasons  the  following: — 

*  I  have  now  youth  in  my  favour,  being  only  twenty-four 
years  of  age  this  month.  I  have  no  doubt  I  should  soon 
acquire  any  language,  as  I  preached  regularly  in  this  lan- 
guage before  I  had  been  eleven  months  on  these  islands 
and  knew  not  a  word  before  we  arrived/ 

Long  before    it   was  possible  to  get  any    reply   to  his 


250  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

request,  the  thoughts  and  labours  of  John  Williams  had 
been  turned  in  new  directions,  in  the  first  instance  by  the 
conversion  of  the  island  of  Rurutu.  This  incident  is  fully 
described  in  a  circular  drawn  up  by  him,  dated  Raiatea. 
October  i8, 1821,  and  printed  while  he  was  at  Port  Jackson, 
whither  he  had  gone  on  account  of  his  own  and  of  Mrs. 
Williams'  health : — 

'  On  March  8  we  saw  a  strange  sail  at  sea,  which 
made  towards  the  reef,  and  appeared  to  be  determined  to 
hazard  the  running  on  the  reef  instead  of  bearing  up  for 
the  proper  harbour,  a  practice  resorted  to  by  the  natives 
when  in  extremity.  Perceiving  their  imminent  danger,  the 
chiefs  manned  our  boats,  and  went  off  to  pilot  the  strangers 
safely  into  the  proper  harbour.  When  they  arrived,  we 
found  they  Avere  natives  of  an  island  called  Rurutu,  but 
Ohiteroa  in  charts,  150°  51'  W.  22°  29'  S.  It  appeared  by 
their  accounts,  that  they  had  been  to  Tubuai,  an  adjacent 
island,  for  axes,  pieces  of  iron  hoop,  &c.,  and,  as  they  were 
returning,  were  overtaken  with  strong  contrary  winds, 
which  drove  them  down  among  the  Society  Islands.  They 
had  been  drifted  about  at  sea  for  three  weeks,  and  latterly 
without  food  or  water,  except  sea  water,  which  they  were 
obliged  to  drink.  Maurua,  the  most  westerly  of  the  Society 
Islands,  was  the  only  island  they  could  make,  although 
they  both  saw  and  tried  to  make  Raiatea  and  Borabora 
as  they  drifted  by.  They  were  exceedingly  astonished  at 
the  difference  of  custom  ;  and  when  they  heard  of  the  new 
system  of  religion,  and  saw  the  mode  of  worshipping  the 
living  and  true  God,  they  were  convinced  of  its  superiority, 
and  determined  to  take  the  first  fair  wind  and  come  up  to 
Borabora  or  Raiatea  where  missionaries  resided,  to  obtain 
books,  learn  to  read,  and  be  taught  the  word  of  God. 
From  Maurua  they  had  now  come,  had  touched  at  Bora- 
bora on  their  way,  but  the  wind  being  contrary,  they  could 
not  get  their  huge,  awkward  canoe  into  the  harbour,  con- 
sequently they  bore  up  for  Raiatea.  The  chief  (whose 
name  is  Auura),  with  his  wife  and  a  few  others,  were  taken 
on  shore  at  Borabora  in  a  boat.     Brother  Orsmond,  who 


CONVERSION  OF  RURUTU  251 

occupies  that  station,  supplied  them  with  books,  and  paid 
every  attention  to  them  ;  but  as  their  canoe,  and  the  prin- 
cipal part  of  the  people,  were  at  Raiatea,  they  soon  fol- 
lowed. When  they  arrived  here,  there  were  about  thirty 
persons,  men,  women,  and  children.  We  supplied  them 
with  books,  set  apart  a  certain  time  for  their  instruction, 
and  gave  them  in  charge  to  our  deacons,  who  were  highly 
pleased  with  their  new  office,  and  were  diligent  in  the  dis- 
charge of  their  duty.  Auura,  the  chief,  paid  particular 
attention,  as  did  also  his  wife.  Some  of  the  others  were 
slothful,  while  he  appeared  to  appreciate  the  worth  of 
knowledge,  and  the  value  of  the  good  tidings  of  salvation. 
His  diligence,  attention,  and  questions  were  such  as  sur- 
prised not  only  the  Raiatians,  but  also  ourselves.  We 
think  he  possesses  a  very  acute  judgment  in  those  things 
to  which  his  knowledge  extends.  We  do  not  wish  to  be 
understood  in  thus  speaking  of  him,  that  we  believe  him  to 
be  what  would  be  called  in  England  a  converted  character, 
though  we  have  now  evidence  that  he  is  a  true  convert  from 
idolatry.' 

On  July  3  a  brig,  the  Hope,  from  London,  touched  at 
Raiatea,  and  Captain  Grimes  was  induced  by  Mr.  Williams 
to  take  these  natives  back  to  Rurutu.  The  native  church, 
when  appealed  to  for  help,  nominated  two  deacons.  Puna 
and  Mahamene  by  name,  to  go  with  them  as  Christian 
teachers.  On  August  9  a  boat  which  John  Williams  had 
sent  by  the  Hope  returned  to  Raiatea,  laden  with  the  gods 
of  Rurutu,  and  bringing  a  letter  from  the  native  teachers 
informing  Williams  and  Threlkeld  that  the  island  had 
forsaken  its  ancient  idolatry  and  was  giving  heed  to  their 
instructions.  This  favourable  reception  of  the  Gospel 
message  was  greatly  helped  at  Rurutu  by  some  of  those 
apparently  accidental  circumstances,  which,  however,  hap- 
pened so  frequently  in  Polynesia  as  to  become  to  the  eye 
of  faith  evidences  of  God's  presence  and  power.  The  nar- 
rative contained  in  the  circular  continues  : — 

'  It  appears  that  the  brig  arrived  there  on  Monday,  and 
sailed  the  same  evening.     On  Tuesday  the  public  meeting 


252  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

was  held  ;  and  on  Wednesday  they  had  their  pubHc  or 
general  feast,  wherein  both  men,  women,  and  children,  chiefs, 
and  common  people,  all  ate  together,  which  was  to  be 
the  test  of  the  truth  of  the  word  of  God,  agreeable  to  the 
proposition  made  by  the  teachers  in  the  meeting  of  the 
preceding  day.  If  they  died  according  to  the  prediction 
of  their  priest— namely,  any  woman  eating  pork  or  turtle 
would  be  eaten  by  the  evil  spirit,  or  any  one  eating  on 
a  sacred  place  w^ould  die  and  be  eaten  also — then  they 
would  not  destroy  their  gods  ;  but,  if  no  one  sustained  any 
injury,  they  would  destroy  all  their  idols.  They  met 
accordingly  ;  and  after  satisfying  their  appetites  without 
any  injury  being  sustained,  they  arose  ;  boldly  seized  their 
gods  ;  set  fire  to  three  sacred  houses,  the  residences  of 
their  godships  ;  and  then  proceeded  to  demolish  the 
maraes,  which  was  all  completely  effected  that  day. 

*  It  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  when  the  boat  first  reached 
the  shore  Mahamene  and  Puna,  with  their  party,  knelt 
down  to  return  thanks  to  God  for  their  preservation,  not 
knowing  that  that  spot  was  sacred  to  Oro.  The  Rurutus 
immediately  said,  "  This  people  will  surely  die."  The  party 
also  ate  inadvertently  on  a  sacred  spot.  When  the  Rurutus 
saw  this,  they  said  among  themselves,  "  No  doubt  they  will 
die  for  this  trespass  on  sacred  ground ; "  and  looking 
earnestly,  they  expected  some  one  to  have  swollen  or  fallen 
down  dead  ;  but  after  they  had  looked  a  long  time,  and 
saw  no  harm  come  to  them,  they  changed  their  minds,  and 
said,  "  Surely  theirs  is  the  truth ;  but,  perhaps,  the  god  will 
come  in  the  night,  and  kill  them  ;  we  will  wait  and  see." 
One  man  actually  went  at  midnight,  and  called  to  Auura 
Vahine,  the  chiefs  wife,  saying,  "  Are  you  still  living  ?  has 
not  the  evil  spirit  destroyed  you?"  When  morning 
appeared,  and  the  Rurutus  saw  that  no  harm  had  happened 
them  in  the  night,  they  became  exceeding  disgusted  at 
their  having  been  deceived  so  long  by  the  evil  spirits.' 

On  the  arrival  of  the  boat  at  Raiatea  with  the  Rurutu 
gods  great  excitement  ensued.  An  evening  meeting,  itself 
a  great  novelty,  was  held  in  the  large  new  church,  lighted 


WILLIAMS    VISITS    THE  HERVEY  GROUP      253 

up  for  the  occasion,  through  the  ingenuity  of  Mr.  WiUiams, 
by  wooden  chandeliers  containing  cocoa-nut  shells  for  lamps. 
The  idols  were  then  exhibited,  and  many  interesting  details 
given  connected  with  this  most  successful  first  effort  to 
make  the  Gospel  known  to  '  the  isles  beyond.'  Tidings 
had  also  been  brought  that  Rimatara,  an  island  forty  miles 
away  from  Rurutu,  was  likely  to  accept  the  new  religion. 

Towards  the  close  of  1821,  the  state  of  health  of  both 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Williams  made  a  voyage  to  Sydney  de- 
sirable. The  remarkable  results  at  Rurutu  had  aroused 
the  deepest  interest  in  John  Williams'  mind,  and  greatly 
strengthened  his  resolution  to  do  what  he  could  to  carry 
the  Gospel  to  the  multitude  of  islands  around,  still  in  the 
total  darkness  of  heathenism.  His  sympathies  were  wholly 
on  the  side  of  a  bold  forward  policy.  A  frequent  saying 
of  his,  in  reply  to  the  ever-present  objections  of  cautious 
minds,  was,  '  Did  you  ever  know  one  of  these  pre-eminently 
prudent  men  accomplish  anything  great  or  good  ? '  Even 
this  journey  to  Sydney  was  utilized  to  plant  the  Gospel  in 
a  heathen  island.  His  eyes  had  already  turned  longingly 
towards  the  Hervey  group,  situated  to  the  south-west  of 
Raiatea.  Following  the  Rurutu  precedent,  he  took  with 
him  two  native  teachers  whom  the  Church  at  Raiatea  had 
indicated  as  most  suitable  for  the  work — Papciha  and  Vaha- 
pata  by  name.  Upon  arriving  at  Aitutaki  on  October  26, 
1821,  the  ship  was  at  once  surrounded  by  canoes  filled 
with  natives,  who  were,  he  says,  '  exceedingly  noisy,  and 
presented  in  their  persons  and  manners  all  the  wild  features 
of  savage  life.'  Finding  that  he  could  make  himself  under- 
stood he  invited  Tamatoa,  the  chief,  on  board,  and  in 
reply  to  his  questions  told  him  what  had  been  done  at 
Raiatea,  how  the  great  gods  Tangaroa  and  Koro  and 
the  rest  had  all  been  burnt,  and  the  people  taught  about 
the  one  true  God.  The  teachers  were  introduced  to  him, 
and  then  the  chief  asked  if  they  would  go  on  shore  with 
him.  When  told  they  would,  '  he  seized  them  with  delight, 
and  saluted  them  most  heartily  by  rubbing  noses.'  The 
chief  promised  to  protect  the  teachers,  and  further  excited 


254  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

Mr.  Williams  by  telling  him  about  the  mysterious  un- 
known island  of  Rarotonga  ;  and  then  the  vessel  went  on 
her  way  to  Sydney,  calling  at  New  Zealand. 

At  Sydney  John  Williams  purchased  a  vessel,  afterwards 
known  as  the  Endeavour,  '  for  the  chiefs  of  Raiatea,  Tahaa, 
Borabora,  and  Maupiti,'  and  on  January  30,  1822,  from 
Sydney  he  wrote  the  Directors  a  long  letter,  which  is  a 
very  good  specimen  of  his  energy,  clear-headedness,  and 
far-sightedness.     We  can  quote  only  two  paragraphs : — 

'  We  are  establishing  native  missions.  The  one  is  at 
Rurutu,  the  effects  of  which  the  account  I  have  had  printed 
(a  few  of  which  I  have  forwarded  to  you)  will  show.  The 
other  is  at  Aitutaki ;  but  we  shall  not  be  able  to  hear  of  that 
till  the  return  of  our  vessel  from  the  colony,  as  we  cannot 
touch  at  it  going  out,  but  as  the  vessel  returns  to  the 
colony  it  is  in  a  direct  line  from  Raiatea.  I  hope  and 
pray  that  my  being  able  to  touch  at  so  many  islands  going 
out  will  enable  us  to  form  several  more,  a  communication 
with  which  must  be  kept  up  ;  therefore  I  hope  that  the 
little  vessel  I  have  written  to  you  for  will  be  sent  out  by 
first  opportunity  \ 

'  We  must  branch  out  to  the  right  and  left,  for  how  can 
we,  in  justice  to  the  heathen  world,  especially  to  the  sur- 
rounding islands,  confine  the  labours  of  so  many  missionaries 
to  so  few  people  ?  A  few  days  since,  by  Rev.  T.  Hassall, 
Mr.  Marsden  received  letters  from  you  which  were  not 
more  gratifying  to  him  than  to  myself — you  speak  of  my 
having  written  in  an  intemperate  and  unbecoming  manner. 
I  forbear  at  present  to  say  anything  upon  the  subject,  but 
expect  on  my  arrival  at  the  islands  to  find  letters  equally 
hurtful  to  our  feelings  as  some  we  formerly  received.  I 
thought  from  your  last  kind  and  affectionate  letters  you 
had  given  over  writing  unkindly  ;  however,  amidst  it  all 
we  have  the  approbation  and  blessing  of  our  God  upon 
our  feeble  efforts  to  spread  the  savour  of  His  name.' 

The    purchase  of   the  ship,   referred    to    in   this    letter, 

^  It  was  a  good  schooner,  complete  (in  frame),  of  about  twenty  or  twenty- 
five  tons. 


WILLIAMS  BUYS  A   SHIP  255 

was  due  to  several  causes.  Mr.  Williams  felt  ev^en  more 
strongly  than  any  of  his  colleagues  that  a  vessel  which 
the  mission  could  control  was  essential  to  its  successful 
working.  Events  have  amply  justified  him  and  all  those 
who  in  varying  degrees  shared  this  opinion.  He  also  saw 
that  a  wide  and  rapid  extension  of  Christian  influence 
among  the  islands  was  impossible  without  a  ship  of  this 
kind.  But  ever  practical  in  his  views,  he  had  planned  a 
commerce  in  tobacco  and  sugar-cane  between  Raiatea  and 
the  colony,  which  he  believed  would  prove  highly  re- 
munerative to  all  concerned.  For  this  purpose  he  had 
met  the  present  need  by  purchasing  a  vessel,  which  was 
to  be  the  chiefs'  property.  He  still  urged,  in  season  and 
out  of  season,  upon  the  authorities  in  London  the  need  for 
a  vessel  wholly  devoted  to  missionary  work. 

Mr.  Williams  returned  to  Raiatea  by  way  of  Rurutu, 
reaching  Raiatea  on  June  6.  He  was  greatly  cheered  by 
this  visit.  '  We  found  the  two  native  teachers  with  their 
families  well,  and  were  much  delighted  with  the  progress 
they  had  made.  They  have  erected  an  excellent  place  of 
worship,  plastered,  floored,  and  comfortably  pewed,  with 
a  pulpit,  and  singing-desk,  after  the  model  of  our  large 
chapel  at  Raiatea.  All  the  women  had  bonnets,  and  the 
men  hats.  They  have  made  great  progress.  Many  of 
them  can  read  fluently  in  the  Gospels.  They  were  much 
delighted  at  seeing  me,  for  they  had  postponed  their  May 
meeting  in  the  expectation  of  my  arrival.  The  two  native 
teachers  had  taught  them  to  prepare  cocoa-nut  oil  and  arrow- 
root ;  and,  in  return,  the  people  had  erected  for  them  two 
plastered  dwellings,  and  treated  them  with  great  kindness. 
I  left  with  them  5c o  catechisms  and  500  spelling-books,  of 
which  they  were  much  in  want.  Besides  these,  I  gave  them 
a  history  of  Joseph,  and  a  Scripture  catechism  which  I  had 
written  for  them  during  the  voyage,  together  with  eight  chap- 
ters of  Daniel  which  I  had  translated  at  the  same  time.' 

The  planting  of  sugar-cane  and  the  culture  of  tobacco, 
which  Williams  had  intended  developing  in  Raiatea  with 
every  probability  of  success,  was   frustrated   by   the   fact 


256  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

that  the  colony  of  New  South  Wales  at  once  put  a  pro- 
hibitive duty  upon  the  last,  thus  shutting  out  from  their 
market  any  the  natives  could  grow,  and  at  the  same  time 
plunging  the  missionary  into  somewhat  serious  financial 
embarrassments.  These  were  not  lessened  by  the  fact  that 
the  Directors  also  refused  to  admit  the  force  of  his  argu- 
ments or  to  sanction  his  action.  He  himself  puts  his 
side  of  the  case  as  well  as  it  can  be  stated  in  a  letter 
dated  September  30,  1823,  a  letter  remarkable  also  as 
containing  one  of  the  most  famous  of  his  sayings  : — 

'  It  is  our  duty  to  visit  surrounding  islands.  You  have 
fourteen  or  fifteen  missionaries  in  these  islands,  missionaries 
enough  to  convert  all  the  islands  in  the  South  Seas,  and 
every  island  within  a  thousand  miles  of  us  ought  now 
to  be  under  our  instruction.  Six  good  active  missionaries, 
united  in  heart,  mind,  and  plan,  would  effect  more — if  you 
would  afford  them  the  means — than  you  either  think  or 
expect.  A  missionary  was  never  designed  by  Jesus  to  get  a 
congregation  of  a  hundred  or  two  natives  and  sit  down  at 
his  ease  as  contented  as  if  every  sinner  was  converted,  while 
thousands  around  him,  and  a  few  miles  from  him,  are 
eating  each  other's  flesh  and  drinking  each  other's  blood 
with  a  savage  delight,  living  and  dying  without  the  know- 
ledge of  that  gospel  by  which  life  and  immortality  are 
brought  to  light  upon  this  subject.  It  is  our  full  determina- 
tion to  have  some  decided  conversation  with  the  Deputation  ; 
for  my  own  part,  I  cannot  content  myself  within  the 
narrow  limits  of  a  single  reef,  and  if  means  are  not  afforded, 
a  continent  to  me  would  be  infinitely  preferable,  for  there 
if  you  cannot  ride  you  can  walk,  but  to  these  isolated 
islands  a  ship  must  carry  you.' 

In  April,  1822,  letters  were  received  from  Papeiha  and 
Vahapata.  A  native  who  had  been  sent  with  messages 
to  Papeiha  some  months  before  returned  at  the  same  time 
with  two  important  items  of  news.  One  was  this  message 
from  the  Aitutakians :    '  When  you  teturn,  tell  Viriamu  ^  if 

^  Mr.  Williams'  native  name.     It  was  the  nearest  approach  to  his  own  that 
Polynesian  lips  could  make. 


THE   CONVERSION  OF  AITUTAKI  257 

he  will  visit  us  we  will  burn  our  idols,  destroy  our  maraes, 
and  receive  the  word  of  the  true  God.'  The  other  was 
that  some  natives  of  Rarotonga  were  then  resident  upon 
Aitutaki.  Tamatoa  readily  placed  the  ship  Endeavour  at 
his  disposal,  six  native  teachers  were  chosen  and  solemnly 
appointed  for  this  pioneer  service,  and  on  July  4,  1823, 
accompanied  by  Mr.  Bourne,  John  Williams  set  out  on 
the  ever-memorable  voyage  in  which  he  was  first  to  claim 
Aitutaki  for  the  Saviour,  and  then  to  discover  the  mys- 
terious search-eluding  Rarotonga. 

In  his  Missionaiy  Enterprises^  Mr.  Williams  has  given 
some  vivid  pictures  of  the  wonderful  events  of  this  period. 
The  conversion  of  Aitutaki  had  been  effected  by  the  teachers 
Papeiha  and  Vahapata,  whom  he  left  on  that  island  when  on 
his  way  to  Sydney.  The  progress  of  Christianity  in  Aitu- 
taki under  these  two  brave  and  devoted  native  teachers  was 
largely  helped  by  the  death  of  the  chief's  daughter.  The 
gods  had  been  invoked  with  numerous  and  costly  ceremonies 
— but  in  vain.  This  induced  the  chief  to  look  favourably 
upon  the  new  teaching,  and  to  turn  away  from  the  ancient 
idolatry  which  had  failed  him  in  the  time  of  sorest  need. 

The  visit  to  Mangaia  was  the  occasion  of  one  of 
those  brave  deeds  on  the  part  of  Papeiha,  who  had 
already  been  the  instrument  of  so  much  good  upon 
Aitutaki,  which  have  given  him  a  very  high  place  on  the 
roll  of  missionary  fame.  The  first  cruise  in  search  of 
Rarotonga  having  proved  fruitless,  Williams  bore  away  to 
the  island  of  Mangaia,  which  had  been  visited  by  Captain 
Cook.  Various  attempts  to  establish  friendly  relations 
with  the  natives  were  unsuccessfully  tried. 

'  In  a  consultation  upon  the  subject  with  the  teachers, 
Papeiha  said  to  us,  that  he  should  have  no  objection  to 
land  among  them.  There  being  no  openings  in  the  reef 
through  which  the  boat  could  pass  to  the  shore,  with 
a  readiness  and  devotedness  that  heightened  him  in  the 
estimation  of  every  one  present  he  offered  to  leap  into  the 
sea,  and  swim  through  the  surf.     Being  accoutred  for  his 

»  Pp.  66-68. 

I.  S 


258  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

daring  exploit,  he  went  into  the  boat,  and  on  reaching  the 
reef,  which  extended  but  a  few  yards  from  the  shore,  he 
perceived  that  the  natives  were  all  armed,  some  with  stones 
in  their  slings,  and  others  with  their  spears  poised,  ready  in 
a  moment  to  defend  their  island  against  the  expected 
invasion.  Papeiha  addressed  them,  saying,  that  we  were 
peaceably  disposed,  and  that  he  was  coming  on  shore  ;  but 
unless  they  would  tie  their  spears  in  bundles  with  their 
slings,  he  would  not  venture  among  them.  They  imme- 
diately did  as  he  proposed,  when  this  devoted  man  dived 
into  the  sea,  and  was  borne  on  the  top  of  a  billow  to  the 
shore.  Encouraged  by  his  kind  reception,  he  stated  to  the 
chiefs  and  the  assembled  multitude  who  we  were,  and  what 
was  the  object  of  our  visit  ;  and  also  informed  them  that 
we  had  with  us  two  teachers  and  their  wives,  whom  it  was 
our  wish  to  settle  among  them.  They  told  him  that  they 
should  be  glad  to  receive  instruction,  and  requested  that  he 
would  go  to  the  vessel,  and  return  with  the  teachers  imme- 
diately. Papeiha  accordingly  came  off,  and  informed  us  of 
all  that  had  taken  place  ;  stating,  at  the  same  time,  that  he 
thought  they  were  an  inoffensive  people,  and  that  no  danger 
was  to  be  apprehended  from  them.  Some  property  was 
immediately  put  into  the  boat ;  and  two  teachers  with  their 
wives,  attended  by  our  veteran  pioneer,  went  to  the  shore  ^.' 
But  even  Papeiha's  insight  proved  mistaken  in  this  case. 
The  teachers  were  allowed  to  land,  but  their  little  property 
was  too  great  a  temptation  for  the  savages.  They  were 
robbed  of  everything,  and  violence  to  the  two  wives  of  the 
teachers  was  prevented  only  by  firing  a  small  cannon  from 
the  ship,  and  thus  frightening  away  their  maltreaters. 
Papeiha  remonstrated  with  the  chief,  who  wept,  but 
explained  his  inability  to  prevent  such  deeds  by  the 
assertion  that  his  influence  was  small  on  Mangaia,  'all 
heads  being  of  an  equal  height.'  Papeiha  himself  was 
nearly  murdered.     A  tiputa^  was  thrown  over  his  head  and 

*  Missionary  Enterprises ,  pp.  78,  79. 

'  A  piece  of  cloth  three-quarters  of  a  yard  wide  and  three  yards  long,  with 
a  slit  in  the  middle  for  the  head  to  pass  through,  worn  as  a  cloak. 


ATIU,   MITIARO,   AND  MAUKE  259 

twisted  round  his  neck.  He  had  presence  of  mind  to 
insert  his  hand  between  it  and  his  throat,  and  thus  escaped 
strangHng.  The  teachers,  whose  names  were  Taua  and 
Haavi,  and  Papeiha  were  embarked  upon  the  ship  once 
again,  and  for  the  present  Mangaia  had  to  remain  without 
the  Gospel. 

The  island  of  Atiu  was  next  visited.  Mr.  Orsmond  had 
sent  a  few  months  before  from  Borabora  two  native 
teachers  to  this  island,  but  they  had  been  badly  treated 
and  met  with  no  success.  The  chief  came  on  board,  and 
by  the  example  and  the  conversation  of  the  chief  of 
Aitutaki,  now  an  earnest  believer  in  Christianity,  who  was 
then  with  Mr.  WiUiams,  he  was  deeply  impressed.  This 
chief,  Roma  by  name,  was  also  chief  ruler  of  the  tw^o  small 
islands,  Mitiaro  and  Mauke.  Mr.  Williams  persuaded 
him  to  accompany  the  ship  and  use  his  influence  with 
the  chiefs  of  these  hitherto  unvisited  islands.  This  he 
did,  and  so  successfully  that  both  islands  embraced 
Christianity. 

'  It  is  a  pleasing  reflection,  that  the  very  first  vessel  which 
visited  the  islands  of  Mitiaro  and  Mauke  carried  the  glad 
tidings  of  salvation  to  them.  In  this  people  the  words  of 
the  Psalmist  have  a  striking  fulfilment:  "As  soon  as  they 
hear  of  me,  they  shall  obey  me  ;  the  strangers  shall  submit 
themselves  unto  me."  The  sun  had  risen  with  his  wonted 
splendour,  gilding  the  eastern  heavens  with  his  glory;  and 
little  did  the  inhabitants  of  Mauke  and  Mitiaro  imagine, 
that  before  he  retired  beneath  the  horizon  in  the  western 
sky,  Ichabod  would  be  written  upon  the  idolatry  of  their 
ancestors.  How  sudden  and  unexpected,  at  times,  are 
the  gifts  of  a  bountiful  Providence  !  How  unlooked-for, 
unsought,  the  communications  of  God's  mercy!  The  king 
of  Atiu  came  on  board  of  our  vessel  to  gratify  his  curiosity, 
and  was  at  that  time  a  bigoted  idolater,  having  even 
threatened  to  put  the  teachers  to  death  ;  but  was  induced 
to  embrace  the  truth  himself— to  use  his  influence  in  over- 
throwing the  superstitions  of  ages  in  two  islands — and  then 
to  return  to  his  own  with  a  full  determination  to  do  the 

S  % 


26o  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

same  there.     Could  we  be  restrained  from  exclaiming,  "It 
is  the  Lord's  doing,  and  it  is  marvellous  in  our  eyes^  ? 

Roma  returned  to  Atiu,  and  the  Endeavour  went  on  her 
way  to  discover  Rarotonga.  No  teachers  were  landed  on 
Atiu,  but  another  of  those  strange  Providences,  so  frequent 
at  this  time,  greatly  aided  the  conversion  of  that  island. 
A  canoe  returning  from  Tahiti  to  Raiatea  was  driven  out 
of  its  course  by  a  storm. 

'  After  having  been  driven  about  the  ocean  for  six  weeks, 
during  which  time  they  suffered  exceedingly  from  hunger 
and  thirst,  they  reached  Atiu.  Here,  by  the  attention  of 
their  brethren  the  teachers,  and  the  hospitality  of  Roma, 
they  soon  regained  both  flesh  and  strength.  Several 
of  them  immediately  united  with  the  teachers  in  preaching 
the  Gospel  and  instructing  the  people  :  the  effect  of  which 
was,  that  the  remaining  half  of  the  population,  till  then 
unconverted,  believed,  and  cast  away  their  idols.  "  Now 
we  know,"  said  many,  "  that  this  religion  is  true  ;  for  these 
people  could  not  have  come  here  to  deceive  us  ;  they  were 
driven  by  the  waves  of  the  ocean,  and,  behold,  they  have 
their  books  with  them  ;  and  the  God  to  whom  they  prayed 
has  preserved  them  ^."  ' 

Before  leaving  the  ship,  Roma  was  able  to  give 
Mr.  Williams  the  correct  direction  in  which  Rarotonga 
would  be  found — south-west  by  west,  as  it  proved  when 
his  native  landmarks  were  tested  by  the  compass — and  an 
approximate  idea  of  its  distance,  '  a  day  and  a  night's  sail.' 
'  After  leaving  Atiu,  we  were  baffled  and  perplexed  for 
several  days  by  contrary  winds.  Our  provisions  were 
nearly  expended,  and  our  patience  all  but  exhausted,  when, 
early  in  the  morning  of  the  day  on  which  we  discovered  the 
island,  the  captain  came  to  me,  and  said,  "  We  must,  sir, 
give  up  the  search,  or  we  shall  all  be  starved."  I  replied 
that  we  would  continue  our  search  till  eight  o'clock,  and  if 
we  did  not  succeed  by  that  time,  we  would  return  home. 
This  was  an  hour  of  great  anxiety  ;  hope  and  fear  agitated 
my  mind.     I  had  sent  a  native  to  the  top  of  the  mast  four 

^  Missionary  Enterprises,  pp.  90,  91.  ^  Ibid.  pp.  94,  95. 


DISCOVERY  OF  RAROTONGA  261 

times,  and  he  was  now  ascending  for  the  fifth  :  and  when 
we  were  within  half  an  hour  of  reHnquishing  our  object, 
the  clouds  which  enveloped  its  towering  heights  having 
been  chased  away  by  the  heat  of  the  ascending  sun,  he 
relieved  us  from  our  anxiety  by  shouting  7>z>,  teie^  taua, 
feiina,  nei  !  Here,  here  is  the  land  we  have  been  seeking  ! 
The  transition  of  feeling  was  so  instantaneous  and  so  great, 
that,  although  a  number  of  years  have  intervened,  I  have 
not  forgotten  the  sensations  which  that  announcement 
occasioned.  The  brightened  countenances,  the  joyous 
expressions,  and  the  lively  congratulations  of  all  on  board, 
showed  that  they  shared  in  the  same  emotions  ;  nor  did  we 
fail  to  raise  our  voices  in  grateful  acknowledgments  to  Him 
who  had  graciously  "  led  us  by  a  right  way  ^."  ' 

A  canoe  containing  Papeiha  and  one  of  the  Rarotongans 
brought  from  Aitutaki,  Vahineino  by  name,  went  on  shore. 
They  were  welcomed,  and  when  the  object  of  their  visit 
was  explained  '  all  seemed  delighted.'  The  king.  IMakca 
by  name,  went  out  to  the  ship,  and  was  rejoiced  to  find 
his  own  cousin  among  the  little  band  brought  back  from 
Aitutaki.  Papeiha  and  the  teachers  with  their  wives 
landed.  The  next  morning  they  returned  to  the  ship  in 
a  sad  plight.  A  powerful  chief  had  come  and  demanded 
one  of  the  wives,  and  only  by  the  strenuous  exertions  of  the 
king's  cousin,  a  female  whose  name  was  Tapaeru.  were  they 
preserved  from  outrage.  At  first  it  seemed  as  though 
Rarotonga,  discovered  only  after  long  and  often  baffled 
search,  would,  like  INIangaia,  have  to  be  left  in  heathenism 
for  the  present.  But  again  the  faith  and  courage  of 
Papeiha  rose  to  the  height  of  a  great  endeav^our.  At  his 
own  request  he  was  left  alone  amongst  the  wild  horde 
of  savages,  the  only  promise  he  exacted  being  that 
a  colleague  should  be  sent  to  him  as  soon  as  possible  from 
Raiatea.  He  landed,  '  carrying  nothing  with  him  but  the 
clothes  he  wore,  his  native  l^cstament,  and  a  bundle  of 
elementary  books.'  He  was  not  entirely  friendless,  since 
the  two  men  and  four  women  who  had  been  brought  back 

'  Missionary  Enterprises,  pp.  99,  100. 


262  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

from  Aitutaki  had  accepted  Christianity,  and  all  promised 
to  help  him.  About  four  months  later,  Tiberio,  the  friend  he 
asked  for,  was  able  to  join  him,  and  in  the  course  of  a  twelve- 
month the  whole  island  was  led  to  renounce  idolatry. 

The  story  of  this  voyage  is  familiar  to  the  readers  of 
Missionary  Enterprises,  but  we  are  able  to  give  it  in 
Williams'  own  words,  in  a  letter  to  his  friend  and  fellow- 
worker  William  Ellis,  dated  October  i,  1823  : — 

'You  will  be  rejoiced  to  hear  that  I  have  taken  a  mis- 
sionary voyage.  The  origin  was,  if  you  recollect,  when  I 
went  to  the  colony  I  took  two  native  teachers  and  left  them 
at  Aitutaki.  Success,  after  much  struggling  and  fighting, 
attended  their  labours,  and  when  the  schooner  visited  them  on 
her  way  back  to  the  colony,  they  sent  up  word  that  if  I  would 
come  down  and  see  them  they  would  renounce  idolatry. 
Further,  that  there  was  a  canoe  arrived  from  Rarotonga 
(Rarotoa),  and  many  of  the  people  who  came  in  her  had 
embraced  Christianity,  and  wished  to  have  teachers  to  return 
with  them.  This  to  me  was  too  evident  a  call  from  God  to 
confer  with  flesh  and  blood.  After  getting  my  dear  wife's 
consent  I  determined  on  the  voyage,  and  to  have  a  thorough 
range  over  that  group  of  islands.  After  a  little  persuasion 
I  got  Mr.  Bourne  to  agree  to  take  two  teachers  from  his 
church  and  go  too.  I  took  four  from  Raiatea,  Paumoana 
and  Mataitai  for  Aitutaki,  Vahineino  and  Fanauara  for 
Rarotonga ;  Mr.  Bourne  took  two  for  Mangaia  Islands. 

'We  set  sail  on  July  4,  and  after  three  or  four  days' 
fine  wind  we  arrived  at  Hervey's  Island.  It  is  two 
large  low  islands,  with  very  few  inhabitants  and  very 
little  else  but  fara"^.  We  of  course  did  not  waste  our 
labourers  by  leaving  any  there,  but  sailed  for  Aitutaki,  and 
were  greeted  with  the  most  grateful  salutation  from  every 
canoe  that  passed  us.  Maitai  te  paran  a  te  Atna  11a  ina?i 
Aitutaki.  Ua  pabn  roa  te  paran  a  te  Atna  i  Aitntaki  nei. 
Tei  ia  Viliarnn  maitai  te  par  ait,  &c.^     We  were  rather  hard 

'  Pandanus. 

^  *  Good  is  the  Word  of  God.  Aitutaki  has  received  it.  The  Word  of  God 
is  fully  established  on  Aitutaki,     The  good  Williams  has  the  Word.' 


WILLIAMS'   LETTER    TO   ELLIS,    1823  263 

of  belief,  for  they  arc  a  fcia  tavarevare  ^ ;  they  therefore  held 
up  their  BA's  -,  others  pointed  to  their  hats,  to  convince  us 
of  the  truth  and  to  induce  us  to  let  them  alongside.  At 
length  we  saw  the  young  kings  canoe,  and  when  they 
came  on  deck  they  told  us  of  all  that  the  Lord  had  done — 
their  maraes  all  destroyed,  variia  inos^  all  burned,  and  every 
man  in  the  island  a  worshipper  of  the  true  God  ;  that 
a  very  large /<7:;r  bure  raa"^  was  finished,  and  only  waiting 
my  arrival  to  open  it.  This  was  news,  and  joyful  news. 
We  opened  the  chapel,  settled  the  teachers  comfortably, 
brought  away  the  young  king  and  his  great  uncle  and 
their  wives,  and  after  getting  all  the  Rarotonga  people 
on  board,  we  sailed  for  Rarotonga,  but  did  not  find  it  that 
tack,  therefore  stretched  on  for  the  islands  of  Mangaia. 
Here  Mr.  Bourne  attempted  to  leave  two  teachers,  but  the 
poor  wives  got  handled  so  roughly  that  it  was  impossible 
to  leave  them  ;  the  husbands'  lives  were  in  danger,  and 
their  wives  would  have  been  publicly  abused. 

'  We  sailed  away  to  Atiu,  and  here  we  trust  great  success 
attended  our  labours.  About  four  months  before  that 
time  Mr.  Orsmond  had  sent  two  teachers  to  Atiu,  an  island 
about  which  I  made  inquiry  when  I  visited  the  colony. 
W^e  found  the  poor  men  in  a  wretched  situation.  They 
had  had  every  article  stolen  from  them,  and  were  living, 
as  they  said,  Mai  te  uri  ra  ^  We  tried  much  to  get  a  chief 
from  every  island,  but  could  not ;  however,  we  got  Roma- 
tane  ^,  the  king  of  Atiu,  on  board.  He  informed  us  that  he 
was  king  of  two  islands  a  little  to  windward,  about  twenty- 
five  miles  each  ;  the  one  is  Mitiaro,  the  other  Mauke. 
We  persuaded  him  to  accompany  us,  and  use  his  infiuencc 
in  settling  a  teacher  at  each,  which  he  agreed  to  do. 
We  had  him  on  board  three  or  four  days.  By  preaching, 
praying,  and  conversation  he  was  turned  from  dumb  idols 
to  serve  the  living  and  true  God.     His  influence,  as  )ou 

*  A  deceitful  people. 

-  Spelling  books.     The   term   still  used  by  natives    for  elementary  school 
books.  ^  Evil  spirits,  i.e.  idols.  *  House  of  prayer. 

''  Like  dogs.  '    'lane  denotes  the  male  sex,  as  vahinc  the  fen  ale. 


264  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

well  know,  was  invaluable  in  settling  the  two  native 
teachers  at  the  islands  of  Mitiaro  and  Mauke.  They  both 
determined  to  receive  the  good  word  that  they  might  be 
saved.  The  chief  of  Atiu,  Roma-tane,  is  a  fine  man,  and 
a  remarkably  sensible  man.  I  preached  one  Sabbath  day 
from  '•  He  that  believeth,"  &c.  He  paid  great  attention, 
and  in  subsequent  conversation  he,  by  the  questions  he 
proposed  and  answers  that  he  gave,  evinced  that  he 
perfectly  understood  all  that  was  said.  He  returned  on 
shore  at  his  own  island,  with  a  full  determination  to  destroy 
all  his  maraes  and  erect  oioi  a  fare  bure  7'aa  ^,  and  open  it 
when  Tyermani  ma'^  visit  them  on  their  way  to  the  colony. 

*  From  Atiu  we  steered  again  in  search  of  Rarotonga,  the 
bearings  of  which  the  chief  gave  us.  After  an  anxious  and 
rather  tedious  search  we  found  the  beautiful  island  of 
Rarotonga.  It  is  much  like  Eimeo  in  appearance.  Here 
I  attempted  to  settle  Vahineino  and  Fanauara  with  their 
wivcs^  but  the  very  lascivious  conduct  of  the  natives  to 
the  wives  of  the  teachers  prevented  me.  I  was  very  sorry 
indeed,  as  it  is  a  femia  taata,  29  Mataeinaas'^.  However, 
I  had  taken  with  me  from  Aitutaki  Papeiha,  one  of 
the  teachers  that  I  left  at  Aitutaki,  and  he,  manifesting 
a  true  missionary  spirit,  went  on  shore  by  himself,  and 
knowing  he  should  have  every  article  stolen  from  him, 
he  sent  all  his  taoa  oii^  to  Raiatea^  and  went  on  shore 
with  only  what  clothes  he  had  on  him  and  a  bundle  of 
BA's  under  his  arm. 

'  The  people,  generally  speaking,  resemble  the  Rurutu 
people,  especially  the  chiefs  of  Rarotoa  ;  but  nothing  near 
so  clean.  Indeed,  the  common  people  are  very  filthy, 
except  those  of  Auau ;  they  are,  perhaps,  a  different  race 
of  people  altogether,  fine  stout,  well-made  men,  and  very 
white.  They  display  great  ingenuity  in  making  their 
cloth.  &c.  They  are  without  exception  the  finest  men 
that  I  have  seen  in  the  South  Seas.  Aitutaki,  Atiu, 
Mangaia,  and   Rarotonga  are  very  numerously  inhabited, 

'  Quickly  a  house  of  prayer.  '^  Tyerman  and  "Rennet. 

'  Inhabitants  numerous,  twenty-nine  districts.  *  Kit. 


AlTUTAKfS  IDOLS  BROUGHT  TO  RAIATEA    265 

especially  Rarotonga.  At  the  others.  Mitiaro  and  Maiike. 
there  are  not  more,  perhaps,  than  four  or  five  hundred  on  each. 
They  were  all  Rai  tangata  ^,  especially  Aitutaki,  Atiu,  and 
Rarotonga.  They  are,  as  you  must  suppose,  ignorant  in 
the  extreme.  Mitiaro  and  Mauke  had  never  been  visited 
before.  Auau  had  never  seen  a  ship  since  Captain  Cook's  ; 
and  Rarotoa  had  only  seen  one,  which  they  attempted  to 
cut  off.  and  indeed  did  kill  four  of  the  crew.  Their  lan- 
guage is  much  the  same  as  the  New  Zealanders'.  They  use 
the  hard  consonants  and  nasal  sounds,  and  supply  all  the 
breaks  in  the  throat  with  either  the  k  or  the  nasal, 
as  vaa^  vaka  ^,  maa,  maajiga  ^,  &c.  Being  able  to  speak 
the  New  Zealand  was  of  great  advantage  to  me,  although 
I  did  not  attempt  to  preach  to  them  in  that  language. 
and  gave  the  teachers  special  written  instructions  not  to 
accustom  themselves  to  speak  the  Aitutaki,  but  to  teach 
the  Aitutakians  the  Raiatean,  which  I  trust  they  will 
accomplish,  as  the  Aitutaki  chiefs  and  their  wives  have 
picked  up  this  language  with  amazing  rapidity.  They 
have  neither  the  h  nor/",  which,  together  with  the  introduction 
of  the  nasals  and  hard  consonants,  makes  it  appear  at  first 
almost  totally  different  language.' 

In  ten  days  the  return  voyage  to  Raiatea  was  accom- 
plished. '  And  as  other  warriors  feel  a  pride  in  displaying 
trophies  of  the  victories  they  win,  we  hung  the  rejected 
idols  of  Aitutaki  to  the  yardarms  and  other  parts  of  the 
vessel,  entered  the  harbour  in  triumph,  and  sailed  down 
to  the  settlement.' 

Thus  ended  the  earliest  and  in  many  repects  the  most 
remarkable  voyage  in  the  history  of  Polynesian  missions — 
the  earnest  of  many  another  to  come. 

We  must  now  glance  at  the  progress  of  affairs  in  Huahine 
and  Raiatea  during  this  period.  Mr.  Davies  left  Huahine 
in  1820,  and  the  whole  burden  of  the  work  there  fell  upon 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ellis,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Harff.  Great  atten- 
tion was  paid  to  educational  work.  This  was  often  of  the 
highest  value  and  importance  in  the  development  of  the 
*  Chiefs.  '•'  Canoe.  ^  Food. 


266  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

people  ;  but  the  native  characteristics,  here  as  elsewhere, 
strongly  asserted  themselves.  Mr.  Ellis's  sketch  of  school 
work  at  this  period  enables  the  reader  to  understand  on  the 
one  hand  w^hy  progress  in  this  respect  was  sometimes  slow, 
and  on  the  other  properly  to  appreciate  the  results  gained 
from  pupils  exposed  to  such  adverse  influences. 

'  Many  of  the  adults  received  instruction  more  readily 
than  the  children,  and  acquired  a  knowledge  of  reading 
with  much  greater  facility  than  persons  of  the  same  age 
would  do  in  England.  With  many,  however,  more 
advanced  in  life,  it  was  a  difficult  task  ;  and  some,  after 
two  or  three  years'  application,  were  unable  to  advance 
beyond  the  alphabet,  or  the  first  syllables  of  the  spelling- 
book.  Another  source  of  perplexity  resulted  from  the 
injudicious  methods  of  the  native  teachers,  who  at  first,  in 
their  zeal  to  encourage  their  scholars,  repeated  to  them 
every  word  in  the  columns  of  spelling  and  lessons,  so  fre- 
quently, that  many  of  their  pupils  could  repeat  from 
memory,  perhaps,  the  w^hole  of  the  book,  without  being 
able  to  read  a  single  line.  When  they  took  the  book,  it 
was  only  necessary  for  them  to  be  told  the  first  word  or 
sentence  in  a  chapter,  in  order  to  their  repeating  the  whole 
correctly,  even  though  the  book  should  be  open  at  some 
other  part,  or  the  page  be  placed  bottom  upwards.  Such 
individuals  did  not  aUvays  like  to  go  back  to  the  lowest 
classes  ;  yet  it  w^as  necessary.  In  order  to  convince  them 
of  the  propriety  of  this,  they  were  told  we  should  only  dis- 
tribute copies  of  the  Scriptures  to  those  who  could  read 
any  part  on  looking  at  it.  The  native  teachers  had  fallen 
into  this  practice  from  the  influence  of  former  habits.  Ail 
their  knowledge,  traditions,  and  songs  were  preserved  by 
memory  ;  and  the  preceptor  recited  them  to  his  pupil  till 
the  latter  could  repeat  them  correctly  \' 

At  Fare  harbour  quite  a  little  township  sprang  up,  with 
comfortable  houses  and  roads  and  public  buildings.  On 
April  3,  1820,  a  large  new  chapel  was  finished  and  opened 
for   worship    on   May    3,  the  old   building  being  used   as 

'  Polynesian  Researches  (1832^,  ii.  pp.  319,  320. 


PROGRESS  IN  HVAHINE  267 

a  school.  This  was  before  Mr.  Davies  returned  to  Tahiti 
at  the  close  of  1820,  and  in  May  of  the  same  year  the  first 
Christian  Church  was  formed  on  the  island.  Those  who, 
after  having  been  baptized,  manifested  a  desire  to  unite 
themselves  into  a  Christian  Churchy  were  very  carefully 
instructed  by  the  missionaries.  Here  again  native  ideas 
stood  in  the  way,  and  had  to  be  cautiously  and  thoroughly 
eradicated.  The  leading  chiefs  had  for  the  most  part 
accepted  Christianity.  Hence  there  was  danger,  if  the 
chief  became  a  church  member,  that  many  of  his  people 
simply  on  that  account  would  desire  to  follow  his  example. 
This  was  met  by  explaining  very  fully  the  headship  of 
Christ  in  His  Church,  and  the  fact  that  personal  piety  and 
the  fullest  acceptance  of  Christ  as  Saviour  and  Lord  were 
the  only  qualifications  for  membership. 

'We  did  not  present  any  creed,'  writes  Mr.  Ellis,  'or  articles 
of  faith  for  their  subscription  on  this  occasion.  Sensible  of  the 
insufficiency  of  all  mere  human  writings,however  excellent,  to 
restrain  the  mind  or  control  the  opinions  of  men,  we  thought 
it  best  to  dispense  with  them,  lest  the  bare  assent  or  sub- 
scription to  certain  articles  of  faith  or  doctrines  of  truth, 
should  be  substituted  as  grounds  of  confidence,  for  an 
experience  of  the  influence  of  those  doctrines  on  the  heart. 
Their  names  only  were  entered  in  a  book  kept  by  the 
missionaries  for  that  purpose,  and  called  the  Church-book. 
This  little  meeting  was  held  in  the  chapel  at  Fare,  on 
Friday  evening,  May  5,  1820^' 

Mr.  Davies  administered  the  Communion  on  the  next 
Sunday,  May  7,  in  the  simple  fashion  usually  observed  by 
Churches  of  the  Congregational  order.  The  feelings  of  the 
veteran  missionary  can  be  imagined.  He  had  landed  on 
Tahiti  from  the  Royal  Admiral  in  1801,  had  lived  and 
laboured  through  the  weary  '  night  of  toil,'  had  become 
only  too  familiar  with  all  the  worst  features  of  a  sanguinary 
idolatry,  a  lascivious  and  bloodthirsty  social  order,  and 
was  now  privileged  to  commemorate  the  dying  love  of 
Jesus  Christ  with  men  and  women  whom  he  himself  had 

*  Polynesian  Researches^  iii.  p.  59. 


268  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

known  to  be  guilty  of  unspeakable  abominations,  and 
whom  the  power  of  Christ's  love  alone  had  been  able  to 
change.    Well  might  Ellis,  his  young  colleague,  write  :— 

'  His  joys  must  have  been  powerfully  augmented  by  the 
recollection  of  what  those  individuals  once  were,  and  the 
many  hours  of  apparently  cheerless  and  hopeless  toil  he 
had  bestowed  upon  them,  now  so  amply,  so  astonishingly 
rewarded.  A  state  of  feeling,  almost  unearthly,  seemed  to 
pervade  those  who  now,  for  the  first  time,  united  with  their 
teachers  in  commemorating  the  dying  love  of  Christ. 
Recollection,  perhaps,  presented  in  strong  colours  the 
picture  of  their  former  state.  Their  abominations,  their 
reckless  cruelty,  their  infatuation  in  idolatry,  the  frequent, 
impure,  and  sanguinary  rites  in  which  they  had  engaged  — 
their  darkened  minds  and  still  darker  prospects — arose, 
perhaps,  in  vivid  and  rapid  succession.  The  hundreds 
who  remained  to  witness  the  scene  were  not  unconcerned 
spectators.  Their  deep  interest  in  what  was  passing,  was 
indicated  in  their  thoughtful  and  agitated  countenances, 
and  the  subsequent  conduct  of  many  evinced  the  kind 
of  impression  they  received  ^' 

A  generation  trained  in  heathenism,  the  inheritor  of 
generations  of  heathen  influences,  could  not  thus  have 
come  under  the  power  of  the  Gospel  without  in  many  cases 
passing  through  the  deep  waters  of  spiritual  experience. 
Pomare  himself  was  an  instance  of  this.  Terror  of  eternal 
punishment  as  the  only  fit  reward  for  crimes  such  as  his, 
and  hope  that  in  some  way  Christ  would  deliver  him,  seem 
to  have  alternately  tortured  and  soothed  his  darkened 
mind.  Knowing  the  better  course  in  many  things,  up  even 
to  the  last  he  remained  a  slave  to  the  most  awful  vices. 
And  at  Huahine,  Raiatea,  and  elsewhere  it  was  often 
through  darkness  and  storm  that  the  troubled  soul  found 
its  way  to  peace.  '  Ought  I  to  go  to  Jesus  Christ  for 
pardon  ?  Were  any  murderers  of  their  own  children  ever 
forgiven?'  were  questions  frequently  and  tremblingly  asked 
of  the  men  who  knew  that  the  souls  of  those  asking  them 

^  Polynesian  Researches,  iii.  pp.  62,  63. 


CIVILIZATION   VERSUS   CHRISTIANITY        269 

were  often  stained  by  five  or  ten  or  a  dozen  such  cruel 
murders.  It  is  conceivable  that  civiHzation  might  have  in 
time  suppressed  the  infamous  Areoi  societies  and  checked 
infanticide.  But  civiHzation,  apart  from  the  Gospel,  could 
never  have  started  such  questions  as  these,  and  could  cer- 
tainly have  held  out  no  comfort  to  any  such  troubled  souls. 
The  churches  of  Huahine  and  other  islands  had  their 
disappointments  and  trials.  And  where  can  Christian 
Churches  be  found  without  them  ?  The  sailor  and  the 
trader  and  the  globe-trotter  of  1825  scanned  these  native 
churches  often  with  no  friendly  eye,  and  with  no  warm 
sympathy.  Picking  up,  generally  in  the  way  of  scandalous 
gossip,  cases  in  which  natives  who  had  made  profession  of 
Christianity  lapsed  into  immorality  or  into  semi-heathenism, 
these  men  circulated  statements  alleging  that  most,  if  not 
all,  of  the  native  converts  were  hypocrites.  Friends  at  home, 
moreover,  not  making,  and  possibly  not  in  a  position  to 
make,  due  allowance  for  the  moral  and  spiritual  condition 
of  men  and  women  slowly  emerging  from  heathenism, 
judged  the  Christian  life  of  these  infant  native  churches  by 
altogether  false  standards.  The  published  accounts  also, 
from  very  obvious  and  sometimes  important  reasons, 
passed  by  inconvenient  facts,  and  unduly  emphasized  the 
roseate  portions  of  the  records.  This  was  natural,  but 
exceedingly  unwise  and  disastrously  misleading.  Possibly 
no  one  thing  has  done  more  to  check  the  intelligent  mis- 
sionary zeal  and  interest  of  Christian  people  than  such 
yielding  to  the  temptation  not  to  speak  *  the  whole  truth  ' 
with  regard  to  missionary  facts.  The  man  who  knows 
anything  about  the  state  of  Polynesian  life  and  thought  in 
1820,  and  then  expects  to  find  little  or  no  spiritual  weak- 
ness on  the  part  of  Polynesian  Christians,  expects  standing 
miracles — and  if  he  will  read  the  records  sent  home  by  the 
missionaries  themselves  he  will  not  find  them.  If  in 
England,  with  long  centuries  of  Christian  life  behind  us, 
the  churches  are  not  free  from  the  reproach  that  one  of  the 
greatest  hindrances  to  the  Gospel  is  the  defective  spiritual 
development  of  professing  Christians  themselves,  what  can 


270  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

be  expected  from  Polynesia  but  many  examples  of  weak- 
ness ?  Yet  there  are  also  many  noble  examples  of  the 
way  in  which  the  Gospel  became  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation  in  the  heart  and  life  of  many  a  degraded  savage. 
The  little  church  founded  on  May  5,  1820,  at  Fare,  in 
Huahine,  consisted  of  sixteen  individuals;  in  1827  it 
numbered  five  hundred. 

The  old  heathen  system  of  government  was  closely 
connected  with  idolatry.  When  the  latter  was  overthrown 
a  new  system  of  government  also  became  a  necessity.  From 
the  first  the  rule  of  the  London  Missionary  Society  has 
been  that  all  its  missionaries  should  refrain  from  any  con- 
cern with  political  affairs.  This  was  not  possible  in  the 
South  Seas.  To  whom  could  the  natives  look  for  guidance 
if  not  to  the  men  whose  labours  had  so  greatly  blessed 
them  ?  The  method  adopted  was  to  draw  up  in  consulta- 
tion with  the  leading  chiefs  a  code  of  laws,  and  then  the 
king  in  a  public  assembly  of  the  people  read  these,  and 
they  were  formally  accepted  by  the  assembly.  Tahiti 
and  Raiatea  were  the  first  to  do  this.  In  1821  Mr.  Ellis 
visited  Tahiti,  one  main  reason  of  his  journey  being  to 
get  the  advice  of  Mr.  Nott  on  the  draft  code  of  laws  which 
had  been  prepared  for  Huahine.  These  were  promulgated 
in  a  public  assembly  of  chiefs  and  people  on  Huahine  in 
May,  1822  ^ 

In  Huahine,  as  elsewhere,  there  was  a  slight  reaction  in 
favour  of  some  of  the  old  heathen  customs  in  the  course  of 
1821.  The  outward  sign  of  this  was  the  appearance  again 
of  tatoo  marks,  which  had  been  forbidden  because  of  the 
iniquities  which  had  accompanied  the  practice  in  heathen 
times.  The  feature  of  most  painful  import  was  that  the 
king's  son,  named  Taaroarii,  a  fine  young  chief,  associated 
himself  with  the  movement.  He  had  some  years  before 
welcomed  Christianity  and  greatly  aided  in  the  overthrow 
of  idolatry.      As  tatooing  was   illegal,  and  as  there  was 

^  Tliose  who  are  curious  in  such  matters  will  find  this  incident  and  the  code 
of  laws  itself  dealt  with  at  length  in  Ellis'  Polynesian  Researches,  vol.  iii. 
ch.  vii  (1832}. 


ELLIS   VISITS  SANDWICH  ISLANDS  2-ji 

evidence  for  the  view  that  he  had  tatooed  himself  in  the 
behef  that  no  one  would  dare  to  put  the  law  in  action 
against  him,  the  matter  became  very  serious.  Mahine,  his 
father,  a  devout  Christian,  was  greatly  tried  by  this  event, 
but  after  a  severe  struggle,  with  Roman  fortitude,  he  insisted 
upon  the  public  trial  of  his  son.  He  and  all  his  companions 
were  sentenced  to  work  upon  the  roads.  For  a  little  while 
an  outbreak  of  civil  war  seemed  imminent,  but  peace  was 
maintained  and  the  law  vindicated.  Pride  seems  to  have 
led  Taaroarii  to  do  more  work  than  was  needful :  he  broke 
a  blood-vessel,  fell  into  a  decline,  and  died  on  October  21, 
1 82 1.  Thus  closed,  prematurely  and  sadly,  a  career  which 
had  started  well,  and  promised  hopefully  for  a  long  and 
useful  life. 

At  the  close  of  1821  Messrs.  Tyerm an  and  Bennet  visited 
Huahine.  and  in  February,  1822,  they  were  offered  a  passage 
to  the  Sandwich  Islands  by  the  captain  of  a  vessel  called 
the  Mermaid,  which  had  put  into  the  harbour  of  Huahine. 
This  vessel  was  in  the  Government  service,  and  was  on  its 
way  to  the  King  of  the  Sandwich  Islands  with  a  present 
to  him  from  the  British  Government,  viz.  a  schooner. 
Mr.  Ellis  accompanied  them  with  two  native  teachers  for 
the  Marquesas,  who  were  to  attempt  the  re-establishment  of 
a  mission  there.  They  did  not  return  until  October.  The 
Mermaid  visited  Hawaii  first.  The  mission  to  the  Mar- 
quesas had  to  be  abandoned,  but  this  visit  to  the  Sandwich 
Islands  was  followed  by  an  invitation  on  the  part  of  the 
American  missionaries  there  to  Mr.  Ellis  to  come  and  help 
them  in  their  great  task  on  these  populous  islands.  His 
sense  of  the  greatness  of  the  work  to  be  done  led  him  to 
sever  ties  which  were  not  easily  broken,  and  at  the  close 
of  1822  his  connection  with  the  South  Sea  Mission  of  the 
London  Missionary  Society  came  to  a  close. 

At  Raiatea  also  the  story  of  the  progress  of  Christianity 
is  a  tale  of  success,  followed  by  signs  of  apparent  failure. 
Evidence  of  this,  and  also  proof  of  the  fact  that  the 
missionaries  were  often  not  responsible  for  the  exact  state 
of  affairs  was  not  realized  at  home,  are  found   in  a  letter 


272 


THE  ISLES  BEYOND 


by  John  Williams,  dated  Raiatea,  December  24,  1824. 
Mr.  Threlkeld  had  lost  his  wife  on  March  7,  11824,  and  soon 
after  had  left  for  Port  Jackson,  and  never  returned  to  the 
South  Seas.  The  new  settlement  referred  to  was  a  removal 
from  the  old  station  Varva,  which  had  proved  unsuitable  in 
many  respects,  to  a  new  and  carefully  chosen  site  in 
another  part  of  the  island. 

'  By  the  Westmoreland  several  tons  of  arrow-root  were 
sent  to  you  by  the  Church  at  Raiatea,  with  a  letter,  both  by 
the  deacons  and  myself,  requesting  you  to  transmit  to  us 
an  account  of  the  proceeds,  and  write  a  letter  to  the  Church, 
which  we  have   not    yet   received.     No  kind   of   acknow- 
ledgment from  the  Society  at  home  places  the  missionary 
in    very   unpleasant    circumstances.      The   natives   cannot 
conceive  of  all  the  routine  of  buying  and  selling,  as  a  con- 
gregation of  Christians  in  civilized  society  can,  which  raises 
their  suspicions  and  unpleasant  remarks  to  a  disagreeable 
height  at  times,  and  if  from  all  the  flattering  accounts  you 
have  received   from   time  to  time  you  suppose  that  they 
have  that   love  to  their    missionaries,  that    confidence    in 
them  that  a  Christian  church  in  England  has  in  a  pious, 
devoted    minister,  you    are   greatly    mistaken.     Generally 
speaking,  they  are  destitute  of  gratitude — utterly  insensible 
of  their  obligations,  do  not  appreciate  their  privileges,  and 
are  full   of  evil  surmising  and  jealousies  respecting  their 
missionaries,  charging  us  sometimes  with  preventing  them 
from  getting  greater  prices  from  on  board  ships  for  their 
paltry  property.     This  is  not  the  case  in  one  island,  but 
is  so  in  all.     The  power  of  religion  is  not  manifested  by 
many  who  have  a  luxuriant  form.     When  faith  is  to   be 
exerted  in  thwarting  interests  or  inclination  it   in  almost 
every  instance  gives  way ;  but  they  will  talk  as  fast  as  you 
please,  and  perhaps  put  many  a  pious,  humble  Christian  to 
shame  by  talking.     The  greatest  inconsistency  they  will 
maintain  if  it  suits  their  inclination. 

'A  chief's  wife  has  lately  had  a  child,  but  the  young  man, 
her  husband,  died  several  months  before  it  was  born.  The 
wife  would  not  go  near  her  husband  or  have  anything  to 


DEFECTS   OF  CHRISTIAN  NATIVES  273 

do  with  him  for  a  very  long  time.  The  young  man  before 
he  died  said  it  was  not  his  child,  which  is  well  known  to 
every  individual  in  the  settlement.  Since  her  confinement 
she  has  placed  herself  at  the  head  of  a  worthless  gang  who 
neither  fear  God  nor  regard  men.  It  is  a  custom  among 
them  to  carry  large  quantities  of  food  to  female  chiefs  after 
confinement  I  stated  it  as  my  opinion  that  it  was  incon- 
sistent with  the  disciples  of  Jesus  to  pay  the  same  respect  to 
an  adulteress  as  to  a  person  who  had  been  faithful  to  her 
husband,  especially  as  her  conduct  was  still  so  very  dis- 
graceful. One  man,  at  my  request,  very  reluctantly  agreed 
to  lay  his  food  aside,  but  the  whole  of  the  district  have 
since  neglected  all  means  of  grace,  except  on  Sabbath  days, 
for  two  or  three  weeks  past  in  preparing  food  for  this  girl. 
Many  of  them  are  members  of  the  Church.  I  understand 
that  they  have  an  agreement  among  themselves  that  if 
I  put  out  one  the  whole  district  will  go  out  also,  and 
perhaps  leave  the  settlement  altogether.  I  have  told  them 
whoever  likes  may  go.  A  person  who  acts  directly  in 
opposition  to  his  profession  must  be  separated  from  us  if 
ten  thousand  follow  him.  This  is  only  one  instance,  but 
it  is  one  that  will  give  you  a  general  idea  of  the  nature 
of  their  religion  ;  a  blazing  form  scarcely  a  spark  of  the 
power  of  godliness.  Perhaps  these  communications  may 
not  be  so  acceptable  to  you  as  those  that  exalt  through 
thick  and  thin,  but  I  assure  you  they  are  infinitely  more 
true. 

*On  June  7  we  removed  to  our  new  settlement,  the 
week  after  our  dear  brethren  left  us.  My  principal  employ- 
ment for  the  first  two  months  was  marking  out  the  different 
portions  of  land  and  pathways.  During  that  time  the 
people  were  employed  in  erecting  fences,  clearing  away 
their  ground,  and  in  putting  up  their  temporary  residences. 
Every  person  in  the  settlement  has  his  portion  of  garden 
ground  close  to  his  house.  We  have  not  counted  their 
fences,  but  suppose  them  to  exceed  three  hundred.  1 
thought  it  absolutely  necessary  to  commence  with  the 
plantations,  for  until  they  have  some  food  by  them  they 

I.  T 


274  'TtiE  ISLES  BEYOND 

must  of  necessity  go  to  their  land  every  week  or  nearly  so ; 
for  the  first  three  months  they  did  scarcely  anything  else 
beside  erecting  the  temporary  chapel.' 

While  actively  engaged  during  1825  in  directing  the 
affairs  of  Raiatea  the  heart  of  Mr.  Williams  was  rejoiced 
by  good  tidings  from  the  newest  fields  of  missionary  enter- 
prise— Aitutaki,  Atiu,and  Rarotonga.  The  native  teachers 
had  done  splendid  work,  but  the  very  success  had  created 
a  need  for  wise  directing  and  controlling  superintendence. 
Messrs.  Tyerman  and  Bennet  in  1825  sanctioned,  on  the 
part  of  the  Directors,  a  proposal  to  charter  a  vessel  annually 
for  a  brief  period,  in  order  that  these  new  fields  might  be 
regularly  visited.  This  was  a  step — but  only  a  step — in 
the  direction  of  the  great  pioneer's  most  ardent  wishes. 
The  Haweis  was  chartered,  and  then,  greatly  to  the 
disappointment  of  Williams,  his  colleague  at  Tahaa. 
Mr.  Bourne,  was  chosen  to  make  the  visit.  As  matters 
turned  out.  Mr.  Williams  was  almost  indispensable  at 
Raiatea.  The  new  settlement  of  Utumaoro  was  consoli- 
dated, and  the  new  church  built  and  opened  on  February  8, 
1826.  On  the  first  discovery  of  Rarotonga,  Mr.  Williams 
had  written  home  asking  that  a  missionary  might  be 
appointed  to  that  island,  and  towards  the  end  of  1825 
Mr.  Pitman,  who  had  been  designated  for  Rarotonga,  and 
his  wife,  reached  Tahiti.  Williams  immediately  visited  that 
island  to  bring  his  new  fellow-workers  to  his  own  house. 
But  it  was  not  until  April  27,  1826,  that  the  voyage 
to  Rarotonga  could  be  commenced.  In  the  interval 
Mr.  Pitman  had  been  learning  the  language  and  aiding 
Mr.  Williams  in  his  busy  life  at  Raiatea.  Mrs.  Bourne's 
health  had  failed,  and  Mr.  Bourne  had  left  Tahaa  for  the 
colony.  Mr.  Orsmond  had  in  1824  been  called  away 
from  Borabora  to  take  charge  of  the  South  Sea  Academy, 
and  Mr.  Piatt  had  taken  up  the  work  in  that  island. 

In  addition  to  his  other  multiform  labours,  Mr.  Williams 
had  given  much  time  to  adapting  the  Tahiti  Bible  to  the 
Society  Islands  and  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  Hervey 
group.     The  fact  that  Mr.  Williams  was  at  this  time  with- 


WILLIAMS  RE-VISITS  RAROTONGA  275 

out  a  colleague  was  one  more  obstacle  to  his  cherished 
desire.  But  with  characteristic  energy  this  was  overcome. 
He  never  shrank  from  taking  risks,  and  in  this  case  the 
risk  taken  was  leaving  the  mission  at  Raiatea  in  charge 
of  a  native  superintendent.  Mr.  Williams  expected  to  be 
absent  only  three  or  four  months,  and  Tuahine,  the  deacon, 
under  whose  charge  the  work  had  to  be  placed,  was 
a  devoted  and  well-approved  Christian  man.  Still  the 
experiment  was  dangerous.  The  absence  in  the  end 
extended  to  twelve  instead  of  four  months.  There  were 
not  wanting  those  who  blamed  the  missionary  for  the 
course  he  took.  But  had  the  cautious  policy  been  followed 
much  splendid  work  in  extending  Christianity  would  have 
been  left  undone.  The  verdict  of  history  has  more  than 
justified  the  course  taken  in  1827. 

The  voyage  to  Rarotonga  by  Mr.  Williams  and  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Pitman  was  made  in  a  trading  vessel,  and  they  landed 
upon  Rarotonga  on  Sunday,  May  6.  The  weather  was  so 
stormy  that  communication  with  the  ship  was  very  difficult, 
and  it  finally  sailed  away  with  much  of  their  property  still 
on  board.  At  a  service  held  two  or  three  days  afterwards 
nearly  3,000  natives  were  present,  each  of  whom  showed 
his  joy  at  seeing  Mr.  Williams  again  by  a  vigorous  and 
muscular  shake  of  the  hand.  '  Our  arms  ached  severely 
for  hours  afterward '  is  the  contemporary  record.  Very 
stirring  events  had  happened  since  Williams'  last  visit, 
and  these  the  missionary  now  learned  for  the  first  time 
from  the  lips  of  Papeiha.  When  Papeiha  landed,  amidst 
an  immense  crowd,  he  was  led  before  the  old  chief,  who 
said,  '  Speak  to  us,  O  man,  that  we  may  know  the  business 
on  which  you  have  come.'  Papeiha's  reply,  setting  forth 
the  Gospel,  and  requesting  them  to  imitate  Tahiti  and 
Raiatea  and  burn  their  gods,  was  received  with  shouts  of 
surprise  and  horror.  But  the  little  band  of  Rarotongans 
who  had  been  brought  from  Aitutaki  formed  a  nucleus 
of  Christians ;  daily  worship,  morning  and  evening,  was 
held,  and  to  this  many  natives  came,  and  public  services 
were   begun.     Tinomana,  a  chief  who  had  been   defeated 

T  2 


276  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

in  the  wars  always  raging  on  the  island,  and  who  with 
his  people  had  been  driven  to  the  mountains,  sent  for 
Papeiha  and  seemed  impressed  by  his  teaching. 

After  five  months  Tiberio,  the  colleague  Papeiha  had 
asked  for,  joined  him,  and  together  they  visited  the 
influential  chiefs,  pointing  out  the  advantages  of  Chris- 
tianity. Many  times  their  lives  were  in  danger,  but  they 
escaped,  and  soon  after  the  priest  of  the  station  where 
they  lived  brought  his  god  and  threw  it  at  the  feet  of  the 
teachers.  They  cut  it  up,  burnt  it,  and  roasted  some 
bananas  upon  the  fire  thus  made  and  eat  them.  As  no 
evil  resulted  to  them,  this  act  produced  a  great  impression. 
Soon  afterwards  a  chief  named  Tinomana  invited  them 
to  come  and  instruct  him.  They  said  he  must  first 
burn  his  gods,  and  this  he  did.  Other  chiefs  followed  his 
example,  Makea,  the  king,  being  the  last.  A  place  of 
worship  was  built  at  the  station.  War  soon  broke  out,  in 
which  the  Christian  party  conquered,  and  instead  of  eating 
their  enemies,  treated  them  kindly,  and  thus  won  them 
over  to  Christianity. 

This  second  visit  of  Mr.  Williams  to  Rarotonga  fell 
during  the  week  in  which  it  had  been  resolved  to  move  the 
settlement  from  Avarua  to  a  new  and  better  site  called 
Ngatangiia.  The  new-comers  of  course  took  part  in  this 
exodus.  Mr.  Williams  energetically  assisted  in  this  con- 
genial work.  He  superintended  building  the  new  church, 
he  rapidly  mastered  the  language,  he  substituted  for  the 
effort  to  teach  in  Tahitian  the  more  natural  one  of  teaching 
in  Rarotongan,  writing  himself  the  needful  elementary  books, 
and  he  drew  up  and  induced  the  chiefs  and  people  to 
sanction  a  new  code  of  laws.  How  the  missionaries  dealt 
with  some  very  perplexing  practical  questions  is  illustrated 
by  what  happened  now  at  Rarotonga. 

'  There  were  two  most  delicate  and  perplexing  subjects 
which  required  adjustment,  prior  to  the  final  establishment 
of  the  laws.  The  first  referred  to  a  plurality  of  wives. 
This  was  a  matter  of  much  deliberation  between  my 
esteemed  colleague  and  myself,  before  we  decided  how  to 


DIFFICULT  SOCIAL   QUESTIONS  277 

act.  Prior  to  the  introduction  of  Christianity,  polygamy 
existed  to  a  very  considerable  extent ;  and  when  a  person 
having  a  plurality  of  wives  offered  himself  as  a  candidate 
for  baptism,  the  teachers  had  required  that  the  individual 
should  make  a  selection  of  one  of  them,  and  also  provide 
for  the  support  of  those  whom  he  put  away.  The  measure 
succeeded  beyond  what  might  have  been  reasonably  antici- 
pated ;  and  of  the  number  who  had  complied  with  this 
condition,  only  about  twenty  or  twenty-five  persons  occa- 
sioned any  trouble,  among  whom,  however,  was  the  king, 
which  increased  our  difficulty  exceedingly.  With  these  we 
conversed  on  the  subject.  Some  said  that  they  had  returned 
to  each  other,  because  they  had  not  been  left  at  liberty  in 
their  choice ;  others  alleged  that  they  supposed  the  separa- 
tion would  be  only  temporary,  and  that,  had  they  known 
it  was  to  be  permanent,  they  should  not  have  made 
the  selection  they  did.  Acting  upon  this  information, 
Mr.  Pitman  and  myself  thought  the  best,  and,  indeed,  the 
only  way  to  overcome  the  difficulty  entirely,  would  be  to 
convene  the  people,  recommend  that  those  who  were  dis- 
satisfied should  be  allowed  to  select  publicly  either  of  their 
wives,  and  then  be  united  to  her  in  marriage  in  the 
presence  of  the  whole  assembly.  The  maintenance  of  the 
rejected  wife  or  wives  and  children  was  also  a  very  serious 
consideration  ;  for  it  is  not  at  Rarotonga  as  at  Tahiti  and 
the  Society  Islands,  where  provisions  are  abundant,  a  matter 
of  slight  importance  ;  but  a  female  depends  almost  entirely 
on  her  husband.  Knowing  that  the  king's  course  would 
form  a  precedent,  we  commenced  by  requesting  him  to 
name  publicly  the  individual  he  intended  to  make  his  com- 
panion for  life;  and  of  his  three  wives  he  selected  the 
youngest,  who  had  borne  him  one  child,  in  preference  to 
his  own  sister,  by  whom  he  had  had  three  children,  and  his 
principal  wife,  who  was  the  mother  of  nine  or  ten.  He  was 
married  to  her  in  the  presence  of  his  people  ^' 

Many  other  questions  arose  in  connection  with  this  intri- 
cate subject,  the  social    customs  of  Rarotonga  and   their 

'  Missionary  Enterprises^  pp.  1 34,  1 35. 


278  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

methods  of  dealing  with  land  often  becoming  very  difficult 
to  regulate  wisely.  How  far,  for  example,  does  it  fall 
within  the  province  of  the  missionary  to  influence  such 
matters?  Mr.  Williams  puts  the  case,  once  for  all,  with 
regard  to  all  people  who  may  be  in  the  condition  in  which 
the  Rarotongans  were  at  this  date  : — 

'  I  cannot  here  enter  into  a  lengthened  discussion  as  to 
the  extent  to  which  the  missionary  may  wisely  interfere 
with  the  civil  institutions  of  the  people,  but  shall  only 
observe  that  it  would  be  criminal  were  he,  while  seeking  to 
elevate  the  moral  character  of  a  community,  and  to  promote 
among  it  the  habits  and  usages  of  civilized  life,  to  withhold 
any  advice  or  assistance  which  might  advance  these  designs. 
It  has  been  shown  that  their  civil  and  judicial  polity, 
and  all  their  ancient  usages,  were  interwoven  with  their 
superstitions  ;  and  that  all  these  partook  of  the  sanguinary 
character  of  the  system  in  which  they  were  embodied,  and 
by  which  they  were  sanctioned ;  thus  maintaining  a  perpetual 
warfare  with  the  well-being  of  the  community.  The 
missionary  goes  among  them,  and,  by  the  blessing  of  God 
upon  his  labours,  they  are  delivered  from  the  dominion  of 
the  idolatrous  system  which  had  governed  them  for  ages, 
and  in  its  stead  embrace  Christianity.  Subsequently  they 
become  acquainted  with  new  principles ;  are  taught  to  read 
portions  of  the  Word  of  God,  which  are  translated  and  put 
into  their  hands  ;  and  soon  perceive  that  these  ancient 
usages  are  incompatible  with  Christian  precepts,  and  that 
such  a  superstructure  cannot  stand  on  a  Christian  founda- 
tion. To  whom,  then,  can  they  apply  for  advice  in  the 
dilemma,  but  to  the  persons  from  whom  their  knowledge  has 
been  derived  ?  and  what  less  can  the  missionary  do  than 
give  it  freely  and  fully  ^  ?  ' 

The  months  slipped  by,  and  no  vessel  appeared  in  which 
Mr.  Williams  could  make  the  return  voyage  to  Raiatea. 
His  mind  was  more  and  more  bent  upon  securing  a  vessel 
for  the  daily  increasing  work  of  extension.  The  inhabitants 
of  Avarua,  who  were  dependent  for  food  on  their  farms  in 

*  Missionary  Enterprises,  p.  140. 


THE  MESSENGER   OF  PEACE  279 

that  part,  were  anxious  to  return  home  from  the  new  settle- 
ment, and  on  July  30  Mr.  Williams  returned  thither  with 
them,  leaving  Mr.  Pitman  at  the  new  station.  At  Avarua 
all  was  in  disorder,  but  under  Mr.  Williams'  energetic 
leadership  it  soon  again  became  a  cosmos.  Through  all 
these  labours  the  great  object  of  his  life  was  ever  present 
to  his  mind,  although  the  realization  seemed  as  far  off  as 
ever.  Mrs.  Williams  had  hitherto  been  unable  to  see  it 
her  duty  to  consent  to  her  husband's  undertaking  a  voyage 
of  2,000  miles,  an  absence  of  six  or  twelve  months,  and  all 
the  risks,  by  her  known  only  too  well,  of  seeking  to  win 
the  friendship  of  strange  and  savage  islanders.  But  after 
a  severe  and  dangerous  attack  of  illness,  in  conversation 
with  him  one  day,  she  gave  her  full  and  hearty  consent, 
leading  him  to  exclaim,  '  This  is  the  finger  of  God.'  This 
consent  led  to  the  accomplishment  by  John  Williams  of 
one  of  the  most  remarkable  achievements  in  the  history 
of  Christian  missions.  Despairing  of  ever  getting  a  vessel 
any  other  way  he  resolved  to  build  one  himself.  Detained 
against  his  will  upon  Rarotonga,  he  set  himself  even  there 
to  carry  out  this  great  plan.  As  he  himself  says,  *  Although 
I  knew  little  of  ship-building,  and  had  scarcely  any  tools 
to  work  with,  I  succeeded,  in  about  three  months,  in  com- 
pleting a  vessel  between  seventy  and  eighty  tons  burden, 
with  no  other  assistance  than  that  which  the  natives  could 
render,  who  were  wholly  unacquainted  with  any  mechanical 
art.'  Readers  curious  about  the  details  of  this  marvellous 
achievement  must  consult  Missionary  Enterprises,  where 
they  are  set  out  in  full.  The  little  craft  was  sixty  feet 
long,  eighteen  feet  wide,  and  most  appropriately  named 
the  Messenger  of  Peace. 

P'earing  to  attempt  the  long  voyage  to  Tahiti,  Mr. 
Williams  visited  Aitutaki,  only  145  miles  distant,  as  a  first 
experiment  with  his  new  vessel.  Disaster  met  them  at 
the  start,  for  the  natives  not  being  expert  in  managing 
sails,  and  not  clearly  understanding  the  orders  given,  the 
foremast  was  carried  away.  Fortunately  they  were  able  to 
regain   the  harbour,  and   after   repairing  damages  started 


28o  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

again,  reached  Aitutaki  in  safety,  returning  to  Rarotonga 
with  a  most  singular  cargo,  consisting  of  pigs,  cocoa-nuts, 
and  cats.  The  cats  were  to  destroy  the  rats,  which  were  an 
unspeakable  nuisance  at  Rarotonga  ;  the  pigs  were  a  new 
breed  to  be  introduced  ;  and  the  cocoa-nuts  were  to  be 
planted  to  replace  those  which  had  been  destroyed  in  war. 

Shortly  after  this  voyage  the  arrival,  in  a  ship  on  its 
way  to  Port  Jackson,  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Aaron  Buzacott  to 
take  up  mission-work  on  the  island  set  Mr.  Williams  free. 
The  tidings  from  Raiatea  were  of  a  kind  to  deepen  his 
desire  to  get  home.  Tuahine  had  died.  This  man  deserves 
more  than  a  passing  notice.  He  was  the  first  and  one  of 
the  best  converts  to  Christianity  in  Tahiti.  Few  Christian 
workers  have  ever  deserved  or  ever  received  nobler  testi- 
mony to  their  worth  and  to  the  value  of  their  work. 

*  As  Christianity  spread,  Tuahine  rendered  essential 
service  to  the  missionaries,  in  directing  the  inquiries  of  the 
new  converts,  and  by  teaching  in  the  schools.  Possessing 
an  accurate  acquaintance  with  his  own  language,  and,  by 
his  long  residence  with  the  missionaries,  having  obtained 
a  considerable  amount  of  scriptural  knowledge,  he  was 
qualified  to  afford  valuable  assistance  in  translating  the 
Scriptures,  which  he  did,  first  to  Mr.  Nott,  and  afterwards 
to  myself.  Frequently  he  has  sat  eight  and  ten  hours  a  day 
aiding  me  in  this  important  work ;  and  to  him  are  we  in 
a  great  measure  indebted  for  the  correctness  with  which  we 
have  been  enabled  to  give  the  oracles  of  truth  to  the  people. 
When  we  removed  to  Raiatea  he  accompanied  us,  and,  as 
might  have  been  expected,  his  counsel  and  assistance, 
especially  in  the  schools  and  in  teaching  us  the  language, 
were  most  invaluable.  When  I  was  absent  from  home  he 
was  left  in  charge  of  the  station  ;  and  his  addresses,  which 
were  most  beautiful  specimens  of  na'tive  eloquence,  resem- 
bling more  the  mildness  of  a  Barnabas  than  the  thunder 
of  a  Boanerges,  were  exceedingly  acceptable  to  the  people. 
The  neatness  of  his  style,  the  correctness  of  his  language, 
the  simplicity  and  beauty  of  his  similes,  never  failed  to  rivet 
the  attention  of  his  hearers.     He  had  also  a  surprising  gift 


WILLIAMS  RETURNS   TO  RAIATEA  281 

in  prayer.  Many  times  have  I  listened,  with  intense 
interest,  to  the  glowing  language  of  devotion  which  flowed 
from  his  lips.  He  was  much  respected  by  the  people  ; 
maintained  an  honourable  course  many  years  ;  discharged 
the  office  of  deacon  with  diligence  and  fidelity,  and  died  at 
the  age  of  about  forty-five,  in  the  enjoyment  of  the  consola- 
tions of  the  Gospel  ^.' 

Mr.  Buzacott  had  brought  with  him  a  quantity  of  iron, 
and  was  himself  a  good  smith.  The  ironwork  of  the 
Messenger  of  Peace  was  strengthened  as  much  as  possible, 
and  everything  done  that  could  be  devised  to  make  her  sea- 
worthy, and  then,  about  the  end  of  March,  1828,  she  sailed 
on  her  voyage  to  Tahiti. 

'  There  can  be  little  doubt  that  they  owed  their  safe 
voyage  quite  as  much  to  the  special  care  of  the  Lord  of 
the  winds  and  waves  as  to  the  seaworthiness  of  the 
schooner.  God  gave  them  a  fair  and  moderate  wind  until 
they  cast  anchor  in  the  harbour  at  Raiatea.  Had  the 
weather  been  rough,  the  Messenger  of  Peace  must  have 
foundered  ;  for  when  they  reached  safe  anchorage  the 
caulking  was  hanging  from  the  sides  of  the  ship  in  long 
strips.  The  straining  caused  by  rough  weather  would  have 
released  the  caulking  completely,  and  the  vessel  must  have 
filled  rapidly  and  sunk  to  the  bottom.  The  little  schooner 
was  vulnerable  in  many  points.  Her  mat  sails  were  suited 
only  to  fine  weather  and  gentle  breezes.  A  strong  blast 
would  have  torn  them  into  shreds,  and  left  the  ship  like 
a  huge  log  of  floating  timber  at  the  mercy  of  the  elements. 
Mr.  Williams  accordingly  repaired  his  vessel,  and  purchased 
canvas  sails,  ere  he  paid  his  next  visit  to  Rarotonga  ^.' 

On  April  26,  1828,  the  Messenger  of  Peace  anchored 
inside  the  reef  at  Raiatea,  exactly  a  year  after  Mr.  Williams 
had  started.  Mr.  Bourne  had  left  Tahaa,  and  so  the  care 
of  that  station  also  devolved  upon  Mr.  Williams.  The 
May  meeting  held  very  shortly  after  his  return  was  very 
largely  attended,  numbers  coming  from  Huahine,  Borabora, 

'  Missionary  Enterprises,  pp.  160,  161. 

*   The  Life  ami  Labours  of  the  Rev.  A.  Buzacott,  p.  36  (1866). 


282  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

and  Tahaa.  The  two  huge  idols  from  Rarotonga  were 
duly  exhibited,  Makea's  speech  was  a  great  feature,  and 
everybody  was  eager  to  hear  Viriamu's  account  of  the 
wonderful  works  of  God  he  had  seen.  They  were  all 
responsive  also  to  his  eager  and  ardent  appeal  for  native 
helpers  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  the  islands  yet  unvisited. 
Unable  to  do  more  himself,  he  sent  one  of  his  small  vessels 
with  a  crew  under  the  charge  of  one  of  his  deacons  to 
Rarotonga,  Aitutaki,  Atiu,  Mitiaro,  Mauke,  and  Rurutu, 
having  made  two  unsuccessful  attempts  to  reach  Mangaia 
also.  In  December,  1829,  he  himself  visited  Rurutu  and 
Rimitara.  The  Messenger  of  Peace  had  in  the  mean- 
time conveyed  Messrs.  Pritchard  and  Simpson  on  a  voyage 
to  the  Marquesas^  and  then  Mr.  Piatt  to  the  Hervey  Islands. 

Preparations  were  at  once  begun  for  the  long-desired 
cruise  among  the  heathen  islands  lying  still  further  to  the 
west  than  the  Hervey  group,  and  on  May  24,  1830,  the 
Messenger  of  Peace  sailed,  with  Mr.  Williams  and  Mr.  Barff 
on  board.  Mangaia  was  first  visited,  and  many  evidences 
of  progress  were  noted.  On  June  15,  1824,  two  native 
teachers,  by  name  Davida  and  Tiere,  members  of  the 
church  of  Tahaa,  had  been  left  there  by  Messrs.  Tyerman 
and  Bennet  when  on  their  way  to  Sydney.  Soon  after 
Mr.  Williams'  first  visit  a  pestilence  had  visited  the  island, 
and  the  people,  thinking  their  gods  were  offended  at  their 
treatment  of  the  strangers,  vowed  that  if  others  came  they 
should  be  well  treated.  Thus  when  Davida  and  Tiere 
bravely  swam  through  the  surf — the  only  way  then  of 
landing — they  were  welcomed  and  protected  by  the  chief. 
Meanwhile  Tiere  had  died,  and  Davida  had  often  been 
in  danger ;  but  many  of  the  Mangaians  had  become 
Christians.  Atiu,  Mauke,  and  Mitiaro  were  next  visited, 
and  then  Rarotonga.  But  here  their  hearts  were  saddened 
by  unexpected  disaster. 

'  Instead  of  being  greeted  by  the  smiles  and  shouts  of 
the  thousands  who  lined  the  shore  on  our  former  visits,  only 
a  small  company  of  children,  and  a  few  walking  skeletons, 
who  had  exerted  their  utmost  strength  to  reach  the  landing- 


PESTILENCE  AT  RAROTONGA  283 

place,  were  to  be  seen.  On  inquiring  the  cause  of  this,  it 
was  with  the  deepest  sorrow  we  heard  that  a  most  dreadful 
and  deadly  disease  was  raging  among  the  people,  and 
sweeping  them  away  as  with  a  deluge ;  that  at  Mr.  Buzacott's 
station  about  250  persons  had  been  its  victims;  an  equal  or 
greater  number  at  Arorangi ;  and  about  a  hundred  at 
Mr.  Pitman's.,  where  its  ravages  had  but  recently  com- 
menced. So  prevalent  was  this  terrible  visitation  that 
scarcely  an  inhabitant  of  the  island  entirely  escaped  its 
influence^.' 

'  The  natives  said  that  the  pestilence  was  brought  to 
their  island  by  a  vessel  which  visited  them  just  before  it 
commenced  its  ravages.  It  is  certainly  a  fact  which  cannot 
be  controverted,  that  most  of  the  diseases  which  have  raged 
in  the  islands  during  my  residence  there,  have  been  intro- 
duced by  ships  ;  and  what  renders  this  fact  remarkable  is, 
that  there  might  be  no  appearance  of  disease  among  the 
crew  of  the  ship  that  conveyed  this  destructive  importation, 
and  that  the  infection  was  not  communicated  by  any 
criminal  conduct  on  the  part  of  the  crew,  but  by  the 
common  contact  of  ordinary  intercourse.  Another  fact, 
worthy  of  special  notice,  is,  that  first  intercourse  between 
Europeans  and  natives  is,  I  think,  invariably  attended  with 
the  introduction  of  fever,  dysentery,  or  some  other  disease 
which  carries  off  numbers  of  the  people.  At  the  island 
of  Rapa,  nearly  half  the  whole  population  were  thus  swept 
away.  It  is  an  affecting  consideration,  that  civilized  man 
should  thus  convey  physical  as  well  as  moral  contamination 
with  him,  wherever  he  goes  ^.' 

Other  observers  have  noted  this  fatal  result  of  the  visits 
of  vessels.  The  Rev.  James  Chalmers  informed  the  author 
that  during  his  residence  in  the  South  Seas  every  visit 
of  a  vessel  was  followed  by  an  outbreak  of  influenza. 

From  Rarotonga  the  Messenger  of  Peace  sailed  to 
Aitutaki,  where  they  left  a  native  teacher,  and  then  carried 
off  two  of  the  Aitutakians  to  act  as  pioneers  for  Niue  or 
Savage  Island,  so  called  by  Captain  Cook  on  account  of 

*  Missionary  Enterprises,  p.  280.  ^  Ibid.,  p.  2S3. 


284  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

the  supposed  ferocity  of  the  inhabitants.  Successful  as 
missionary  work  has  been  there  since,  the  prospect  in  1830 
seemed  hardly  more  hopeful  to  John  Williams  than  to 
Captain  Cook.  But  the  teachers'  hearts  failed  them  at  the 
critical  moment,  and  though  they  landed  for  a  few  hours 
they  could  not  make  up  their  minds  to  stay.  As  a  last 
resource  two  natives  were  induced  to  come  on  board,  and 
then  the  vessel  sailed  away.  The  object  in  thus  carry- 
ing off  the  natives  was  that  after  they  came  to  know 
Mr.  Williams  and  his  companions,  and  to  understand  some- 
thing of  their  purpose,  they  would  be  able  in  turn  to 
smooth  the  way  for  the  native  teachers  among  their  own 
islanders. 

Tongatabu  was  next  visited.  The  Wesleyan  Society 
was  at  this  time  sustaining  a  mission  upon  that  island. 
After  the  disastrous  beginning  in  1797,  work  had  been 
resumed  there  by  a  native  teacher  connected  with  the 
London  Missionary  Society.  This  led  to  one  of  the  first 
of  those  divisions  of  labour  among  different  societies,  which 
have  fortunately  become  more  common  in  the  course  of  the 
century,  and  which  might  be  developed  to  greater  extent 
with  much  advantage  to  the  progress  of  the  work  through- 
out the  heathen  world.  Mr.  Williams'  views  on  this,  as  on 
other  questions,  were  clear,  common-sense,  and  decided. 
Mr.  Turner,  one  of  the  resident  missionaries,  spoke  in  high 
terms  of  the  labours  of  the  native  teacher. 

'  It  was  pleasing  to  hear  such  a  testimony  to  the 
character  of  one  of  our  Native  Missionaries,  and  most 
gratifying  to  reflect,  that  the  labours  of  this  devoted  indi- 
vidual were  the  foundation  of  all  that  success  which  has 
since  crowned  the  efforts  of  our  brethren,  the  Wesleyan 
Missionaries,  at  these  islands.  At  this  conference,  also,  the 
brethren  expressed  a  wish,  that,  as  the  Fiji  Islands  were  so 
near  to  Tongatabu,  and  politically  connected  with  it,  we 
should  leave  that  field  open  to  them,  and  urged  upon  us 
the  extent  and  importance  of  the  Navigators,  on  the 
ground  that  the  affinity  of  the  languages,  and  other  circum- 
stances, appeared  to  assign  that  group  to  our  mission,  and 


CO-OPERATION  IN  MISSION-WORK.  285 

the  Fijis  to  theirs.  Feeh'ng  the  great  importance  of  keeping 
our  spheres  of  labour  distinct,  we  readily  acceded  to  their 
proposition  ;  and  Mr.  Barff  and  myself  on  the  one  part, 
and  Mr.  Turner  and  Mr.  Cross  on  the  other,  agreed  that 
we  should  occupy  the  Navigators  Islands,  and  they  bend 
their  attention  to  the  Fijis.  Mr.  Barff  and  myself  both 
assured  them  that  we  should  feel  as  much  pleasure  in  being 
instrumental  in  preparing  the  way  for  the  labours  of  their 
missionaries,  as  for  those  from  our  own  Society.  And  here 
I  may  just  remark  upon  the  desirableness  of  every  society 
having  a  distinct  sphere  of  labour  among  a  heathen  people. 
Much  as  I  should  rejoice  in  being  associated  with  an 
Episcopalian,  a  Baptist,  or  a  Methodist  brother,  who  did 
not  attach  primary  importance  to  secondary  objects,  yet 
the  interests  of  every  mission,  especially  in  the  early  stages 
of  its  progress,  seem  to  me  to  require  another  line  of 
conduct.  The  natives,  though  comprehending  but  very 
imperfectly  our  objects,  would  at  once  discern  a  difference 
in  the  modes  of  worship,  and  their  attention  would  of 
necessity  be  divided  and  distracted.  Being  also  of  an 
inquisitive  disposition,  they  would  demand  a  reason  for 
every  little  deviation,  which  would  lead  to  explanations, 
first  from  the  one  party,  and  then  from  the  other,  and  thus 
evils  would  arise,  which  otherwise  might  never  have  existed. 
There  would  have  been  another  great  inconvenience,  in  the 
present  instance,  had  we  both  gone  to  one  group  of  islands, 
from  the  circumstance  of  the  Wesleyan  Missionaries  having 
adopted  a  different  orthography  and  alphabet,  as  well  as 
different  elementary  and  other  books.  I  do  therefore 
sincerely  hope  that  the  directors  or  conductors  of  all 
Missionary  Societies  will  be  ever  ready  in  this  way  to 
sacrifice  denominational  peculiarities  to  the  great  object  of 
their  institution  ^' 

A  fortnight  was  spent  in  the  Friendly  Islands,  and 
then  in  company  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cross  they  sailed  for 
the  Island  of  Lefuga.  The  voyage  was  dangerous,  but 
they  arrived    safely  and    received    a  warm  welcome  from 

*  Missionary  Enterprises,  pji.  304,  305. 


286  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

Mr.  Thomas,  the  resident  Wesleyan  missionary.  Finau, 
the  fierce  chieftain  of  the  Vavau  Islands,  where  Williams 
had  hoped  to  land  teachers,  was  just  then  at  Lefuga. 
Mr.  Williams  describes  his  interview  with  this  famous 
savage  in  a  letter  dated  Tahiti,  October  21,  1830  : — 

'  With  many  of  his  chiefs  he  had  come  to  attend  a  mar- 
riage ceremony;  this  saved  us  a  voyage  to  his  island,  as  we 
had  a  teacher  from  Borabora  for  that  island,  those  originally 
sent  having  turned  almost  heathen ;  two,  however,  are  dead, 
one  of  whom  was  made  very  useful  at  Tonga,  and  died 
happily.  We  attended  his  woolly-headed  majesty,  and 
made  our  propositions  to  him,  Mr.  Cross  and  Mr.  Thomas 
kindly  interpreting  for  us.  He  replied  that  we  might  leave 
the  teacher  and  his  wife  if  we  pleased  ;  but  it  was  his  deter- 
mination not  to  embrace  Christianity  yet,  neither  to  suffer 
any  of  his  people — he  would  kill  the  first  that  did.  Treat- 
ing us  at  the  same  time  with  the  greatest  respect,  he  said 
he  looked  upon  it  as  a  matter  of  importance,  and  he  did 
not  think  it  well  to  use  deceit  on  such  an  occasion,  his  mind 
being  made  up  on  the  subject.  Several  of  the  Vavau 
chiefs  have  left  wives,  lands,  servants,  yam  plantations,  and 
all  they  possess,  and  are  living  in  a  state  of  poverty  at 
Lefuga  under  the  instruction  of  Mr.  Thomas,  rather  than 
return  to  their  own  possessions  at  Vavau  and  renounce 
Christianity,  which  they  must  do  if  they  return,  as  Finau 
threatens  all  with  death  who  do  not  abandon  their  new 
religion.' 

Then  followed  what  was,  perhaps,  the  most  important 
event  in  John  Williams'  life — the  planting  of  the  Gospel  in 
Samoa.  We  quote  from  the  same  letter  his  own  sketch  of 
the  incident : — 

'  Leaving  the  Hapai  group  we  steered  direct  for  the  Samoa 
group,  when  we  experienced  a  severe  gale  of  wind  which 
afflicted  us  all  with  violent  catarrh.  One  died  and  several 
were  reduced  to  the  point  of  death.  The  wind,  however, 
abating,  by  making  the  land  and  getting  into  warmer 
weather,  we  all  of  us  soon  recovered.  Providentially  a 
Samoan  chief  named  Fauca  being  at  Tonga,  with  his  wife 


WILLIAMS    VISITS  SAMOA  287 

and  family,  wished  to  return,  and  applied  to  us.     We  were 
glad    of   the    opportunity    of   conveying    him    home,   and 
he  proved  an  invaluable  acquisition  to  us,  and  we  sincerely 
hope  and  fully  expect  he  will  prove  equally  valuable  to  the 
teachers  we  placed  there.     Of  all  the  islands  that  I  have 
visited  none   appear  of  so   much   importance ;    of  all  the 
missions  we  have  commenced  none  were  ever  began  under 
such  pleasing  circumstances,  or  presented  a  prospect  of  such 
speedy  and  such  complete  success.     The  islands  are  eight 
in  number,  four  in  the  Windward  group,  and  four  in  the 
Leeward  group  ;  two  of  which  are  much  larger  than  Tahiti  ; 
two  others  are  noble  islands,  and  the  remaining  four  are 
small  ;  but  all  are  full  of  inhabitants.     War  raging  at  two 
of  the  principal  islands  we  thought  it  best  to  commence  our 
labours  on  one  only,  which  was  not  the  seat  of  war,  and 
to  which  the  chief  we  had  brought  from  Tonga  belonged. 
Other  reasons  induced  us  thus  to  determine,  such  as  its 
being  the  head  quarters,  as  it  were,  of  the  Leeward  group, 
and  every  probability  of  coming  off  conquerors.     We  used 
our  utmost  endeavours  to  induce  the  chiefs  to  give  up  the 
war.     They  promised  they  would  terminate  it  as  speedily 
as  possible,  and  come  and  learn  from  the  teachers  the  lotji 
or  word  of  the  Great  God.    W^e  placed  eight  teachers  on  the 
large  island  of  Savaii,  four  under  the  protection  of  the  king, 
Malietoa,  and   four  under   the    protection  of  his   brother. 
Mr.  Barff  and  I,  after  much  intercourse,  went  on  shore,  and 
remained  there  two  nights  and  three  days,  during  which 
time  (although  probably  no  European  had  been  on  shore 
before)  we  were  treated  with  the  utmost  respect  and  kind- 
ness.    A  commodious  building  was  given  up  by  the  chiefs 
for  our  people  to  worship   and   teach   in,  with  four  good 
dwelling-houses  for  themselves  and  families.     We  promised 
the  chiefs  and  people  in  the  large  public  meeting  we  held, 
when  we  exchanged  our  presents,  &c.,  that  we  should  be 
sure  to  visit  them  in  ten  or  twelve  months'  time,  and  that 
if  they  had  attended  to  the  instructions  of  the  teachers  we 
would  then  assure  them  that  European  missionaries  would 
come  and  settle  with  them  as  soon  as  possible. 


288  THE  ISLES  BEYOND 

'  One  thing  affected  us  much.  The  two  largest  of  the 
islands,  Upolu  and  Savaii  are  about  ten  miles'  distance  from 
each  other;  war  was  raging  between  them,  they  were  actually 
fighting  on  the  shore  of  Upolu  while  we  were  landing  the 
teachers  on  the  opposite  shore  of  Savaii  ;  the  houses  and 
plantations  were  blazing  at  that  very  time.' 

Two  providential  events  highly  favoured  the  rapid  success 
of  this  great  extension  of  work.  The  first  was  the  meeting 
with  Fauea.  The  second  was  the  death,  only  ten  or  twelve 
days  before  the  Messenger  of  Peace  reached  Savaii,  of 
Tamafainga,  a  tyrannical  and  bloodthirsty  savage,  devoted 
to  the  old  idol-worship,  who  would  most  certainly  have 
made  the  most  strenuous  opposition  to  the  new  religion. 
Fauea  had  greatly  feared  this  man  and  his  influence,  and 
the  conjianction  of  his  removal  just  at  this  crisis  in  the 
affairs  of  the  islands  and  of  the  arrival  of  the  missionaries 
before  a  successor  had  been  chosen  is  most  remarkable. 

The  teachers,  eight  in  number,  were  landed  at  Sapapalii 
on  August  21,  and  as  the  king,  Malietoa,  was  expected,  the 
missionaries  postponed  their  landing  till  the  next  day. 
Malietoa  came  on  board  the  next  afternoon,  and  every 
effort  was  made  to  induce  him  to  bring  the  war  then 
raging,  and  caused  by  the  death  of  Tamafainga,  to  an  end. 
He  promised  that  when  due  vengeance  had  been  exacted 
for  a  relative  who  had  been  slain,  he  would  put  an  end  to 
war  and  come  and  be  instructed.  The  vessel  drifting  out 
with  the  current  the  formal  landing  could  not  be  made 
until  the  evening  of  August  23,  when  they  were  received 
by  an  enormous  crowd,  and  most  heartily  welcomed  by 
Malietoa,  a  Samoan  song  being  sung,  which  had  been  com- 
posed in  honour  of  'the  two  great  English  chiefs.'  The 
king  and  his  brother  extended  every  possible  kindness  to 
the  missionaries,  promised  their  protection  to  the  teachers, 
and,  largely  through  the  influence  of  Fauea  and  his  wife, 
obtained  a  fairly  clear  knowledge  of  what  Christianity  had 
done  in  the  way  of  overthrowing  idolatry  in  the  Friendly 
and  the  Hapai  Islands.  Although  heathen  the  Samoans 
were  not  addicted  to  the  cruel  and  sanguinary  rites  of  the 


WILLIAMS'   RETURN   TO   RAIATEA  289 

Society  and  Hervey  groups,  and  they  possessed  neither 
maraes  nor  priests,  and  were  consequently  less  fanatical 
in  their  resistance  to  change. 

On  leaving  Samoa  Williams'  intention  was  to  visit  Niue, 
and  land  the  two  natives  who  were  still  on  board  the 
Messenger  of  Peace.  But  the  winds  did  not  allow  of  this, 
and  after  touching  at  Rarotonga,  Mangaia,  and  Rurutu  the 
vessel  returned  to  Raiatea  by  way  of  Tahiti.  The  natives 
were  sent  to  Niue  a  few  months  later. 


[Authorities. — Journals  and  Letters;  Annual  Reports;  Transactions  of 
the  Society ;  Polynesian  Researches,  by  William  Ellis  ;  Missionary  Enter- 
prises in  the  South  Sea  Islands,  by  John  Williams  ;  Memoirs  of  the  Life 
of  John  Williams,  by  Ebenezer  Prout ;  Journals  oj  Voyages  and  Travels  by 
Tyerman  and  Bennet,  compiled  by  James  Montgomery ;  Mission  Life  in  the 
Islands  of  the  Pacific,  being  a  Narrative  of  the  Life  and  Labours  of  A.  Buzacott.'] 


I.  U 


CHAPTER  VII 

THE   CONSOLIDATION    OF   CHRISTIAN   INFLUENCE 
IN   EASTERN    POLYNESIA 

The    astonishing    successes    in    Tahiti    aroused    great 
enthusiasm  among  all  supporters  and  friends  of  missions  in 
Great  Britain,  and   in  a   lesser  degree  on   the  Continent. 
This  was  sustained  and  even  increased  by  the  tidings  of 
that  rapid  extension  of  Christian  influence  among  so  many 
other    islands,    widely    scattered    over    the   great    Pacific 
Ocean,  which  we  have  sketched  in   the  last   chapter.     It 
was  hard  for  those  living  on  the  other  side  of  the  globe  to 
realize  with  any  accuracy,  even  from  the  full  and  correct 
descriptions  sent  home  by  the  missionaries,  the  true  con- 
dition of  affairs  in  Polynesia,  and  the  permanent  influences 
at   work   on  the   side    of    indifference   or   of    hostility   to 
Christianity.     Some  of  the   missionaries  themselves  were 
deceived  for  a  time,  and,  having  been  eye-witnesses  of  such 
astounding  transformations,   possibly  did  not  allow  suffi- 
ciently  for   the    innate    depravity   of    the    human    heart, 
and    for    the    abiding  demoralization   due    to   generations 
of  heathenism.     They   were,    perhaps    unconsciously,    led 
now  and  then  to  describe  as  actually  taking  place  reforma- 
tions in  the  native  mind  and  heart — as  distinct  from  outward 
observances — which  existed  more  largely  in  their  desires 
than  in  fact.     Consequently   the   story  of  the  years  from 
1825  to  1H50  in  the  Society  Islands,  and  in  a  lesser  degree 
in  some  of  the  other  centres  of  Christian  work,  is  not  free 
from  disappointment. 


INFLUENCES  RETARDING   PROGRESS  291 

In  Tahiti  and  Eimeo  it  is  only  too  evident  to  any  careful 
observer  that,  even  as  early  as  1815,  by  multitudes  of 
the  natives  Christianity  was  adopted  from  reasons  in  which 
moral  motives,  to  say  nothing  of  spiritual  religion  and 
a  change  of  heart,  had  little  part.  Idolatry  had  proved 
to  be  powerless.  The  missionaries  and  white  people  were 
cleverer  and  richer  than  the  natives.  Pomare  and  the  chiefs 
became  professed  Christians,  and  were  followed  by  multi- 
tudes, of  whom  few  could  have  given  any  reason  satisfactory 
to  a  Christian  heart  for  so  acting.  Further,  in  any  judg- 
ment of  Tahiti  and  Polynesia  generally,  from  a  missionary 
point  of  view,  at  this  or  at  any  subsequent  time,  the 
debasing  influence  of  white  men  must  not  be  forgotten.  A 
few  captains,  it  is  true,  sympathized  with  missionary  effort. 
More,  shrewd  enough  to  see  the  value  of  the  civilizing 
influence  of  Christianity  to  commerce,  did  what  they  could 
to  prevent  injury  from  being  inflicted  on  the  natives  by 
their  crews.  But  the  great  majority  were  either  indifferent 
or  actually  hostile  to  the  missionaries,  and  were  deadly 
foes  to  every  good  quality  and  aim  on  the  part  of  the 
natives.  Native  women,  sufficiently  depraved  already  by 
heathen  custom  and  training,  became  even  worse  after 
intercourse  with  the  crews  of  visiting  ships.  Drink  was 
sold  to  the  natives  wherever  possible.  The  missionaries 
were  often  misrepresented  and  slandered  to  the  natives. 
In  short,  few  darker  stains  rest  upon  the  commercial  history 
of  civilized  peoples  than  those  connected  with  Polynesia. 

The  dispersion  of  the  missionaries  and  their  settlements 
at  different  stations  after  the  great  events  of  1H15  to  1820 
have  already  been  described.  The  early  death  of  Pomare 
had  no  inconsiderable  effect  upon  the  unsatisfactory  history 
of  succeeding  years.  His  son  died  in  early  childhood. 
His  daughter  succeeded  to  the  royal  power  at  the  age 
of  twelve.  Her  mother  and  her  aunt,  both  of  whom  had 
given  promise  of  better  things,  became  notorious  for  their 
evil  lives.  It  is  not  surprising  that  the  young  queen  soon 
began  to  manifest  many  of  the  worst  moral  qualities  of  the 
vicious  ancestry  from  which  she  sprang.     Her  conduct  and 

U  2 


292    CONSOLIDATION  OF  CHRISTIAN  INFLUENCE 

her  influence  were  necessarily  very  adverse  to  the  progress 
of  Christianity. 

Within  the  native  church  itself  there  were  many  diffi- 
culties. As  novelty  and  first  impressions  wore  off,  old 
heathen  practices  began  to  resume  their  power.  The 
natives  who  became  Christian  teachers  were  often  the 
merest  babes  in  Christ,  and  while  some  deserve  a  praise 
which  cannot  be  too  high,  large  numbers  became  hindrances 
rather  than  helps.  A  letter  written  by  Mr.  Henry  on 
February  3,  1825,  contains  these  words:  'The  best  native 
teachers  that  any  of  these  Windward  or  Leeward  Islands 
can  as  yet  produce  are  very  defective,  and  little  more  than 
fit  to  clear  away  the  rubbish  in  the  places  to  which  they 
are  sent,  and  prepare  the  way  for  more  effective  labourers.' 

The  concluding  remarks  in  the  manuscript  history  of 
Tahiti,  already  referred  to,  give  what  may  be  taken  as 
the  most  accurate  and  careful  description  of  the  state  of 
the  mission  at  this  period.  This  history  traces  the  great 
spiritual  revolution  which  had  taken  place  to  the  sovereignty 
of  God  and  to  the  direct  action  upon  the  hearts  of  the 
people  of  the  Holy  Spirit  as  the  first  cause.  The  secondary 
agency  was,  of  course,  the  faithful  labours  of  the  mis- 
sionaries. 

'  The  means  used  in  the  South  Sea  Islands  were  rational 
and  consistent  with  the  genius  of  Christianity  ;  and  the 
religion  propagated  was  the  pure,  genuine  Christianity  of 
the  New  Testament,  not  dressed  or  modified  to  suit  the 
taste  or  customs  of  the  people.  The  truth  was  fairly 
exhibited,  the  missionaries  in  all  their  ministrations  aiming 
at  preaching  Christ  as  the  only,  the  suitable,  the  all- 
sufficient  Saviour  of  ruined  sinners  of  every  nation.  When 
the  time  had  come  when  the  islanders  were  to  be  favoured 
with  the  distinguishing  blessings  of  Christianity,  the  doc- 
trines preached  seemed  to  carry  conviction  to  the  minds 
of  the  hearers.  Truths  formerly  known,  and  heard  with 
aversion  and  indifference,  were  now  remembered,  and 
attended  with  influence  unknown  before. 

'  The  great   body  of  the   people,  however,  though  they 


SLIGHT  HEATHEN  REACTION  293 

renounced  heathenism  and  embraced  Christianity,  and 
were  for  a  while  zealous  in  the  profession  of  the  new 
religion,  renouncing  most  of  their  former  evil  customs 
and  sinful  practices,  observing  the  Sabbath  with  strictness, 
engaging  in  prayer,  learning  to  read,  attending  religious 
worship,  &c.,  yet  when  the  novelty  of  these  things  was 
worn  off,  they  showed  but  too  plainly  that  the  heart 
remained  unchanged,  notwithstanding  convictions  and 
many  favourable  impressions.  And  though  none  did  show 
an  inclination  to  return  to  the  heathen  system  as  such,  yet 
many  of  the  young  people  showed  a  strong  inclination  to 
return  to  their  former  diversions  and  tatooing  according 
to  former  practice  ;  and  though  this  at  first  took  place 
among  those  that  were  not  baptized,  or  brought  under  the 
discipline  of  those  more  immediately  under  the  inspection 
of  the  missionaries,  the  defection  by  degrees  reached 
further,  and  many  of  the  baptized  began  to  associate  with 
those  that  had  returned  to  those  vain  and  sinful  practices. 
Counsels  and  admonitions  not  succeeding  in  reclaiming 
them,  the  missionaries  were  under  the  necessity  of  separating 
them  from  the  congregations  of  the  baptized,  and  many  of 
them  being  soon  found  transgressors  of  some  one  or  other 
of  the  civil  laws  were  brought  before  the  judges  and 
punished,  after  which  they  generally  disregarded  every 
form  of  religion,  yet  most  of  them  continued  to  attend 
worship  on  the  Sabbath.  Those  who  were  in  this  state 
were  called  Tutae  auri,  that  is,  "  Iron  rust,"  a  name  said  to 
have  arisen  from  an  observation  of  Mr.  Bicknell,  who 
compared  some  backsliders  to  burnished  metal  that  had 
become  covered  by  rust.' 

On  December  24,  1824,  George  Pritchard  reached  Tahiti, 
and  in  1827  Alexander  Simpson  arrived  to  reinforce  the 
mission.  These  years  were  a  period  of  reaction  and,  except 
on  the  part  of  those  natives  whose  hearts  had  been  fully 
possessed  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  a  season  of  retrogression. 
On  January  6,  1827,  Pritchard  writes  of  the  evils  caused 
by  runaway  sailors  setting  up  grog-shops.  Mr.  Darling 
writes  under  date  of  March  3,  that  although  some  early 


294    CONSOLIDATION  OF  CHRISTIAN  INFLUENCE 

converts  have  turned  back,  yet  '  the  whole  of  the  chiefs  and 
people  of  any  power  and  influence  are  true  friends  to  that 
which  is  good.'  On  March  4,  1825,  Mr.  Nott  had  sailed 
for  England,  returning  to  Tahiti  on  August  27,  1827. 
Mr.  Blossom,  on  September  25,  1827,  wrote:  'I  cannot 
help  feeling  that  there  is  but  very  little  real  religion  among 
the  people.  The  brethren  have  had  a  meeting,  and  some 
of  them  are  very  desirous  of  taking  new  ground.  It  is  not 
for  me  to  say  whether  it  be  right  or  wrong.  But  we 
should  not  think  it  right  in  a  farmer  to  take  more  ground 
when  he  has  already  more  than  he  can  cultivate  and  keep 
in  good  order.  And  I  would  defy  any  man  to  say  that 
there  is  a  station  or  a  congregation  in  the  islands  fit 
to  be  left  to  themselves.' 

There  were  also  difficulties  connected  with  the  working 
of  the  mission  on  the  part  of  the  missionaries  themselves. 
Any  one  conversant  with  missionary  administration  knows 
that  the  great  factor  in  the  smooth  or  the  troubled  working 
of  the  organization  is  the  personal  quality  of  the  workers. 
Scattered  among  the  islands,  standing  upon  a  footing  of 
perfect  equality,  recognizing  the  Directors  at  home  as 
the  only  authority  they  were  bound  to  obey,  each  man 
laboured  according  to  his  own  light  and  in  his  own  way. 
Some  were  sanguine  in  temperament,  hopeful  of  good  in 
the  natives,  more  ready  to  open  the  door  into  the  fold 
of  the  Church  than  others.  The  severity  of  the  moral 
strain  of  the  work  grew  less  as  Christianity  triumphed  ; 
yet  still  from  time  to  time  there  were  sad  failures.  The 
most  serious  hindrances,  however,  were  due  to  men,  few 
in  number  it  is  true,  who  were  lacking  in  common  sense 
or  possessed  of  an  overweening  estimate  of  their  own 
wisdom,  or  of  that  class  found,  unfortunately,  in  every 
sphere  of  active  work — men  who  do  the  most  objection- 
able things  from  the  most  conscientious  motives.  The 
state  of  affairs  as  described  above  by  Mr.  Blossom  was 
largely  due  to  these  influences.  Men  changed  their 
stations  of  work  pretty  much  at  will.  New-comers  un- 
wisely expected  to  find  Tahiti  a  paradise,  and  then,  after 


MISSIONARIES'   CHILDREN  295 

a  brief  residence,  equally  unwisely,  wrote  home  that  it 
was  a  Sodom.  The  older  missionaries,  able  to  think 
in  the  native  language,  knowing  the  people  perfectly, 
habituated  by  twenty-five  years'  daily  contact  to  all 
the  objectionable  features  of  native  life,  were  somewhat 
blunted  in  perception,  and  did  not  perhaps  always  make 
the  requisite  allowance  for  the  first  impressions  of  their 
younger  colleagues. 

Domestic  matters  also  necessarily  occupied  a  large  part 
of  the  time  and  attention  of  the  missionaries.  It  required 
a  long  and  somewhat  angry  correspondence  with  the 
Directors,  in  which  at  one  time  or  another  every  mission- 
ary took  a  part,  to  induce  the  home  authorities  to  concede 
what  is  now  a  prime  requisite  for  the  smooth  and  effective 
working  of  any  mission — a  regular  and  settled  income  for 
the  workers.  Even  during  the  years  1^25  to  1^30  this 
question  had  not  been  settled.  The  missionaries  were  sent 
out  at  first  with  the  confident  expectation  that  they  would 
be  able  to  live,  as  the  natives  did,  on  the  bountiful  natural 
products  of  Tahiti.  The  Directors  believed  that  as  soon 
as  Christianity  obtained  a  footing  native  industries  would 
spring  up,  superintended  by  the  missionaries,  which  would 
soon  enrich  the  community.  Then,  as  now,  there  was 
a  party  at  home  somewhat  impatient  for  the  time  when 
the  native  Churches  would  be  self-supporting.  But  the 
missionaries  found  they  could  not  live  properly  on  native 
produce  alone.  Nor  could  they  induce  the  natives  to  work 
steadily  and  industriously  at  any  task.  Repeated  attempts 
were  made,  but  they  were  not  marked  by  anything  like 
the  success  anticipated  at  home.  And  the  mental  wear 
and  tear  involved  in  all  these  experiences  was  no  small 
hindrance  to  the  distinctively  relicjious  work. 

Further,  the  children  of  the  missionaries  became  a  very 
serious  problem.  Originally  the  idea  was  that  the  Chris- 
tian family  would  be  an  educative  and  helpful  influence  to 
the  natives,  and  as  the  European  children  grew  up  they 
also  would  take  part  in  missionary  labour,  and  be  all  the 
better  qualified    for  the  work  from    their    intimate   know- 


296   CONSOLIDATION  OF  CHRISTIAN  INFLUENCE 

ledge  of  native  life.  This  was  a  fond  imagination,  but, 
like  so  many  others,  it  fared  badly  under  the  rough  trial 
of  experience.  The  missionaries  soon  discovered  that  for 
their  children  to  acquire  a  language,  and  hear  it  daily 
spoken,  in  which  almost  every  colloquial  sentence  contained 
indecencies  too  gross  for  description,  was  a  most  hurtful 
moral  influence.  The  fact  of  living  in  the  midst  of  a 
heathenism  whose  daily  and  outward  practices  were  of 
the  most  foul  and  debasing  character  inevitably  blunted, 
and  that  very  early,  the  moral  perceptions  of  these 
unhappy  children.  Some  of  the  saddest  pages  in  these 
early  records  are  those  which  tell  of  the  grievous  moral 
lapses  of  both  boys  and  girls  who,  carefully  watched 
over  by  their  parents,  the  children  of  earnest,  fervent, 
continuous  prayer,  yet  could  not  be  kept  from  the  deadly 
pollution  of  the  heathenism  amidst  which  their  childhood 
was  passed. 

A  brave  attempt  to  remedy  this  state  of  things  was 
made  by  the  Deputation  in  1823.  A  school  with  the 
high-sounding  title,  The  South  Sea  Academy,  was  founded 
on  Eimeo,  at  Afareaitu,  which  had  been  renamed  Griffin 
Town.  It  was  opened  in  March,  1824.  This  station  was 
chosen  because  it  was  far  removed  from  the  ports  and 
from  the  chief  centres  of  native  life.  The  Society  paid 
the  master,  who  was,  of  course,  one  of  the  missionary 
staff,  and  allowed  £10  a  year  for  each  child.  The  parents 
had  to  erect  and  maintain  the  buildings,  find  the  cloth- 
ing and  bedding,  and  pay  the  expenses  of  getting  the 
children  to  and  from  the  various  stations.  This  was  an 
early  and  curious  experiment  in  missionary  education, 
but  it  was  doomed  to  failure  at  its  birth.  It  was  not 
likely  that  a  school  originated  in  this  way,  and  with 
such  limited  possibilities  of  management,  could  do  any 
better  for  the  children  than  the  efforts  of  their  own 
parents. 

On  October  30,  1826,  the  Directors  voted  an  additional  £^ 
for  each  boy  allowed  to  stay  after  the  age  of  fourteen  ; 
and  on  November  29,  1829,  the  period  during  which  a  child 


OUTBREAK  OF  FANATICISM  297 

might  stay  was  fixed  at  seven  years,  no  one  being  allowed 
to  stay  beyond  the  age  of  fourteen. 

Mr.  Orsmond,  who  had  removed  to  Borabora  in  1820, 
was  the  first  master,  and  his  wife  the  first  mistress,  of  the 
South  Sea  Academy.  He  held  the  post  from  1824  to  1831, 
but  his  letters  indicate  no  special  fitness  for  the  duty. 

In  1831  Mr.  Orsmond  was  succeeded  by  Mr.  Simpson, 
whose  career  was  even  less  satisfactory,  and  in  a  few  years 
this  attempt  to  meet  the  needs  of  missionaries'  children 
came  to  an  end. 

The  most  attractive  incident  connected  with  the  South 
Sea  Academy  is  the  career  of  the  child-king,  Pomare  III. 
It  had  been  arranged  before  his  father's  death  that  his 
education  should  be  in  the  hands  of  the  missionaries.  He 
was  a  bright,  active  child,  and  great  hopes  were  cherished 
that,  being  placed  under  Christian  influences  for  his  early 
years,  he  might  grow  up  to  be  a  wise,  God-fearing  man, 
and  a  good  ruler.  But  this  was  not  to  be.  He  was  placed 
under  the  care  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Orsmond  at  Afareaitu,  and 
there,  just  as  he  was  beginning  to  show  signs  of  progress, 
his  life  came  to  an  untimely  end.  He  died  on  January  11, 
1827. 

Seasons  of  religious  upheaval  and  reformation  not  un- 
frequently  develop  spiritual  fanaticism,  and  to  this  rule 
Tahiti  was  no  exception.  Similar  phenomena  appeared 
about  the  same  time  at  Raiatea  and  elsewhere.  The 
nature  of  these  delusions,  their  results,  and  the  way  in 
which  they  were  suppressed  are  well  exemplified  in  a  letter 
from  Mr.  Darling,  dated  December  25,  1827  : — 

'In  my  last  letter  to  you,  dated  September  5,  1827, 
I  was  under  the  disagreeable  necessity  of  informing  you 
of  a  division  that  had  taken  place  at  this  station,  occasioned 
by  the  madness  of  two  men,  viz.  Teao  and  Hue,  who 
pretended  they  had  received  visions  from  heaven,  and  that 
they  were  raised  up  to  introduce  their  former  customs  into 
the  worship  of  God.  At  that  time  they  were  doing  much 
mischief,  and  many  were  foolish  enough  to  believe  and 
follow  their  errors.     But  thcv  soon  overreached  the  mark  ; 


298    CONSOLIDATION   OF  CHRISTIAN  INFLUENCE 

they  were  not  contented  with  interfering  with  matters  of 
a  rehgious  nature,  but  began  to  meddle  with  the  political 
affairs  of  the  nation,  and  wanted  to  do  away  with  the  code 
of  laws  that  has  been  estabhshed,  in  order  that  they  might 
do  as  they  pleased  and  commit  all  manner  of  wickedness. 
The  law,  however,  soon  took  hold  of  them,  and  the  two 
leaders  and  most  of  the  disciples  have  been  judged  and 
sent  to  their  respective  lands,  some  to  one  part  and  some 
to  another. 

'  I  have  often  thought  that  there  are  too  many  missionaries 
on  Tahiti  for  the  number  of  inhabitants,  when  we  consider 
the  world  at  large,  which  made  me  offer  to  join  Mr.  Simpson 
to  go  to  the  Marquesas,  but  on  account  of  my  printing  ^ 
work  all  the  brethren  disapproved  of  my  going.  And 
now,  since  Mr.  Pritchard  has  consented  to  go,  it  will  not 
be  necessary  for  me  to  leave  Tahiti.  I  have  engaged  to 
supply  Mr.  Pritchard's  present  station,  viz.  Papeete,  and 
my  own,  which  I  can  do  easily. 

'  I  am  very  busy  at  present  printing  a  new  and  much 
enlarged  Tahitian  hymn-book,  which  I  expect  to  finish  in 
a  few  weeks.  The  Epistles  to  the  Romans  and  the  Corin- 
thians, and  of  Peter,  being  the  only  remaining  parts  of  the 
New  Testament  not  printed,  will  be  next  put  through 
the  press  ^. 

The  reference  in  the  latter  half  of  this  letter  is  to  a  new 
attempt  made  to  establish  a  mission  upon  a  sound  basis 
upon  the  Marquesas  Islands.  Native  teachers  were  sent 
there  in  1 826,  but  proved  unequal  to  the  task.  On  March  1 7, 
1829,  Messrs.  Pritchard  and  Simpson  visited  the  islands  in 
a  small  vessel  called  the  Olive  Branch,  built  by  John 
Williams.  On  their  way  they  visited  the  native  teachers 
first  at  Tubuai,  which  at  that  time  had  a  population  of 
about  1.50 ;  and  then  at  Ravavai,  where  disease  had  been 
so  prevalent  since  the  introduction  of  Christianity  in  182 1 
that  only  800  survived  out  of  a  population  of  3,000.  The 
disease,  a  kind  of  violent  influenza,  had  been  brought  from 
Tubuai    three   years    before.     At   Rapa,   the    next    island 

'  Mr.  Darling  at  this  time  had  charge  of  the  printing  press. 


TROUBLES   AT   TAHITI  299 

visited,  they  found  an  equally  sad  state  of  affairs.  Since 
1826  the  population  had  decreased  from  2,000  to  500. 

They  reached  Santa  Christina  on  May  10.  Their  recep- 
tion was  very  discouraging.  The  king  desired  only,  and 
clamoured  unceasingly  for,  powder  and  guns.  Of  the 
natives  they  give  the  following  account : — '  Their  appear- 
ance is  exceedingly  wild  and  terrific.  Many  go  quite 
naked.  The  women  also  display  a  great  deal  of  affectation, 
and  their  demeanour,  even  to  strangers,  is  of  the  rudest 
and  basest  kind.  The  wanton  and  lascivious  conduct  of 
both  men  and  women  surpasses  anything  we  have  witnessed 
in  the  South  Sea  Islands.  It  is  impossible  for  a  missionary 
to  live  among  them  unless  he  would  adopt  their  customs. 
Their  wars  are  frequent  and  cruel.  They  usually  eat  part, 
if  not  the  whole,  of  those  slain  in  battle.'  So  discouraging, 
in  short,  were  all  the  appearances  that  even  the  native 
teachers  did  not  feel  justified  in  remaining,  and  so  once 
again  the  attempt  to  gain  for  Christianity  a  footing  in  this 
island  was  frustrated.  The  Olive  Branch  returned  to  Tahiti 
on  May  22.  1829. 

Meanwhile,  the  affairs  of  Tahiti  were  greatly  influenced 
for  evil  by  the  conduct  of  the  queen,  Aimata,  or.  as  she 
was  now  styled,  Pomare  Vahine  IV.  She  was  young, 
wilful,  and  vicious  ;  and  encouraged  vice  around  her.  She 
broke  the  laws  herself,  and  used  all  her  influence  to  oppose 
the  chiefs  when  they  sought  to  enforce  them.  More  than 
once  she  and  her  relatives  nearly  brought  on  a  civil  war. 
From  causes  also  which  have  been  indicated  above  the 
missionaries  did  not  seem  able  to  counteract  in  any  suffi- 
ciently decided  manner  these  adverse  influences.  Their 
time  was  largely  taken  up  with  routine  work,  and  in 
attending  to  various  business  transactions  which  were  need- 
ful because  of  the  inadequate  arrangements  made  for  their 
own  support  by  the  Society.  Pritchard,  on  PY'bruary  5, 
1834,  writes  that  owing  to  the  misconduct  of  his  members 
he  had  had  to  omit  the  Lord's  Supper  for  some  months. 
Drunkenness  had  become  so  rampant  that  at  length  the 
most  strenuous  efforts  were  put  forth  ;  temjierancc  societies 


300    CONSOLIDATION  OF  CHRISTIAN  INFLUENCE 

were  formed,  the  laws  against  the  sale  of  drink  enforced, 
and  such  success  attended  their  efforts  that,  on  April  7, 
1834,  Nott  was  able  to  write  that  the  queen,  her  husband, 
and  all  the  royal  family  had  signed  the  pledge.  Towards 
the  close  of  the  same  year  two  laws  of  special  import  were 
passed  :  one  to  make  attendance  at  public  worship  com- 
pulsory ;  the  other  to  prohibit  the  importation  of  spirits. 
The  former  of  these  was  one  of  the  many  proofs  of  the 
difficulties  of  this  time,  for  it  was  due  not  only  to  a  desire 
to  improve  the  attendance  in  the  chapels,  but  also  to  prevent 
bad  characters  from  loitering  about  and  robbing  the  houses 
of  those  who  had  gone  to  attend  worship. 

It  was,  however,  during  this  season  of  turmoil  and  dis- 
couragement that  Henry  Nott  completed  his  great  life- task. 
On  December  1 8,  1  835,  he  finished  his  translation  of  the 
Scriptures  into  Tahitian.  We  have  already  referred  to 
the  very  remarkable  fact  that  Henry  Nott,  the  bricklayer, 
was  the  only  man  of  the  first  group  of  missionaries  who 
appears  to  have  obtained  a  complete  mastery  of  the  lan- 
guage. He  was,  as  we  have  seen,  the  ablest  and  most 
popular  preacher  to  the  natives,  and  the  adviser  of  Pomare 
and  his  successors  in  all  matters  relating  to  the  public 
welfare.  He  drew  up  the  code  of  laws  which  chiefs  and 
people  accepted.  He  alone  never  left  the  mission,  even  in 
times  of  greatest  anxiety  and  danger.  And  the  crowning 
work  of  his  life  was  the  translation  of  the  whole  Bible  into 
Tahitian — a  gigantic  task,  even  when  full  allowance  is  made 
for  all  the  help  he  received  from  Davies  and  his  other 
colleagues. 

The  incidents  connected  with  printing  and  distribution 
of  the  Gospel  of  Luke  are  given  in  Chapter  V.  But  in 
illustration  of  the  long  years  of  persevering  labour  spent 
in  translating  the  Scriptures,  we  quote  the  references  to 
the  work  as  they  occur  in  Nott's  own  correspondence. 

The  missionary  who  stood  next  to  Nott  in  knowledge  of 
the  language  was  Davies,  and  his  advice,  together  with 
that  of  Henry,  Crook,  and  such  of  the  others  as  were 
competent  to  form  an  opinion,  was  always  carefully  sought 


NOrrS    TRANSLATION  OF  THE  BIBLE        301 

before  a  portion  went  to  press.     On  July  29,  1819,  Nott 
writes  : — 

'  I  have  been  enabled  to  finish  the  Gospel  of  John  ^  and 
the  Acts  of  the  Apostles.  But  in  order  that  the  translation 
may  be  as  complete  as  possible,  I  have  taken  a  passage  up 
to  Tahiti  (from  Eimeo)  to  avail  myself  of  the  assistance 
of  King  Pomare,  who  is  the  best  master  of  the  Tahitian 
language  on  all  the  islands.  ...  If  the  Lord  is  pleased  to 
spare  my  life,  I  hope  to  begin  the  Book  of  Genesis  before 
this  comes  to  hand.  A  few  of  the  first  chapters  were  done 
some  years  ago,  but  must  be  revised  again.' 

On  April  9,  1821,  he  states  : — 

'  The  Gospel  of  John  is  now  printed,  which,  with  the 
Acts,  was  translated  two  years  ago.  Several  of  the  lesser 
prophets  I  have  also  done,  though  they  are  not  ready  for 
the  press,  but  must  be  carefully  revised  again.  I  hope  our 
honoured  Directors  will  send  me  the  books  which  I  have 
written  for,  and  any  others  they  may  judge  useful,  that  I  may 
go  on  with  the  five  books  of  Moses  also.  We  are  very 
deficient  in  useful  books  as  good  commentaries  and  books 
of  Biblical  criticism  ^.' 

On  June  21  he  repeats  the  request,  adding — 

'  I  hope  I  shall  not  be  considered  wrong  in  declining  what 
I  now  consider,  and  what  all  the  missionaries  consider,  as 
my  especial  duty,  if  that  assistance  is  withheld  from  me,  or 
else  I  must  apply  to  some  other  quarter.' 

May  ic,  1824,  he  writes: — 

'  I  am  getting  on  in  the  work  of  translating,  and  revising 
those  of  others.  The  greater  part  of  the  New  Testament 
will,  I  hope,  soon  be  in  the  natives'  hands.     The  press  is 

'  The  MS.  of  this  portion  is  in  the  Library  of  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible 
Society.  It  is  in  the  handwriting  of  Pomare,  who  assisted  Nott  in  the  transla- 
tion, and  copied  it  out  for  press  in  his  own  hand.  The  MS.  was  given  to 
Mr.  liennet  by  Nott  in  1824,  and  brought  by  him  to  England  in  1829. 

^  The  basis  of  Nott's  translation  was  not  the  Authorized  Version,  but 
Boothroyd's  edition  of  the  Bible,  and  it  was  this  text  which  he  and  all  his 
helpers  translated,  although  he  did  all  in  his  power  to  make  himself  familiar 
with  the  Greek  and  Hebrew  text. 


3C2    CONSOLIDATION  OF  CHRISTIAN  INFLUENCE 

now  at  work  printing  ten  of  the  Epistles,  viz.  from  Galatians 
to  Philemon  inclusive,  and  others  are  in  hand.' 

On  February  5,  1825,  he  writes  that  the  above  are 
finished. 

'  The  Gospel  of  Mark  by  Brother  Davies  I  am  just  now 
finishing  the  revision  of,  which  will  be  printed  immediately, 
and  in  the  hands  of  the  people.  What  remains  of  the  New 
Testament  to  be  translated  is  2  Corinthians.  Hebrews  and 
Revelations,  all  of  which  I  have  in  hand,  and  hope  to 
translate  in  the  course  of  the  few  months  I  am  here  or  on 
my  voyage  to  England,  which  will  not  impede  (as  you 
seem  to  fear)  the  progress  of  the  work.' 

The  year  1829,  two  years  after  Mr.  Nott's  return  from 
England,  saw  the  completion  of  the  printing  of  the  New 
Testament,  since  on  March  17  he  wrote : — 

'  The  New  Testament  is  now  wholly  printed,  and  a  second 
and  uniform,  edition  is  in  progress.  Very  little  of  the  Old 
Testament  is  in  print  as  yet,  but  several  parts  of  it  are 
translated,  but  with  what  success  I  cannot  say,  as  the  MSS. 
have  not  yet  been  seen  by  me.' 

On  January  7,  1833,  progress  is  thus  reported  : — 

'  The  second  edition  of  the  New  Testament  has  been 
finished  some  time,  and  is  an  entire  new^  translation,  and 
still  in  m.anuscript,  as  the  first  edition  is  in  the  natives" 
hands.  I  am  now  proceeding  with  the  Old  Testament, 
several  parts  of  which  have  been  translated  by  some  of  the 
other  brethren,  and  are  in  the  hands  of  the  natives.  I  in- 
formed the  Directors  long  ago  that  I  had  done  several  of 
the  lesser  prophets,  and  I  have  now  nearly  finished  Genesis, 
and  purpose  to  proceed  on  from  Dan  to  Beersheba,  if  it 
please  the  Lord  to  preserve  my  life  and  grant  me  strength 
sufficient  for  the  task.  Of  this,  however,  I  have  my  many 
fears.  I  feel  myself  very  weak  already,  and  frequently  fear 
that  I  must  ere  long  be  obliged  to  remove  to  the  Colony  to 
obtain  that  medical  assistance  which  I  now  often  need,  but 
cannot  obtain.  To  assist  me,  however,  in  my  work,  as  long 
as  I  may  be  enabled  to  proceed,  I  should  be  glad  if  the 
Directors  would  send  me  the  best  lexicon  adapted  for  the 


NOrrS  SECOND    VISIT  TO   ENGLAND  303 

Septuagint  that  may  have  been  lately  published  in  England, 
also  an  Hebrew  one.  Of  the  former  I  have  none  but  that  of 
G.  Ewing  of  1812  :  of  the  latter  that  of  Parkhurst.  1813, 
Also  any  other  books  that  the  Directors  may  think  would 
be  particularly  useful  to  me.  I  want  no  books  but  for  the 
public  service  of  the  mission,  nor  have  I  time  to  read  for 
any  other  purpose.  I  am  not  therefore  asking  a  private  or 
personal  favour ;  but  I  need  every  help  that  may  be  ob- 
tained, for  the  work  is  arduous  and  demands  better  abilities 
to  perform  it  well  than  I  have  to  bring  to  the  task.' 

On  January  17,  1834,  Nott  'had  been  enabled  to  pro- 
ceed with  the  Old  Testament  as  far  as  i  Samuel '  ;  on 
May  II,  1835,  he  judges  'that  in  the  space  of  six  months 
from  this  time  the  Old  Testament  will  be  finished';  and  on 
February  9,  1836,  he  announces  the  completion  of  his 
mighty  labour.  'That  work,  I  am  happy  to  inform  you, 
was  finished  on  Friday,  December  18,  1835,  at  half-past 
one  o'clock.' 

The  venerable  missionary  felt,  and  all  his  brethren  agreed 
with  him,  that  his  remaining  strength  could  not  be  better 
spent  than  in  visiting  England  and  seeing  the  whole 
Tahitian  Bible  through  the  press.  Though  often  in  great 
pain  and  suffering,  he  rejoiced  that  he  '  had  been  spared 
to  accomplish  a  work  of  such  transcendent  importance,' 
and  his  brave  heart  willingly  faced  the  discomforts  and 
perils  of  the  voyage.  He  sailed  on  February  20,  1836,  and 
reached  Bordeaux,  whither  the  vessel  in  which  he  sailed 
was  bound,  on  June  5.  He  reached  London  on  June  19. 
The  Bible  Society  gladly  and  generously  printed  the  com- 
plete Bible,  the  result  of  twenty  years'  toil  and  devotion  ; 
and  on  August  18,  1838,  taking  the  whole  edition  with 
him,  Nott  sailed  on  his  return  voyage,  reaching  Papeete 
September  12,  1840.  Before  he  left  P2ngland  he  had  had 
an  interview  with  Queen  Victoria,  presenting  her  with  a 
copy  of  his  Bible. 

Notts  health  had  become  very  uncertain  some  >cars 
before  he  returned  to  England  in  1836.  It  would  have 
been  happier  fur  himself,  perhaps,  could  he  have  ended  his 


304    CONSOLIDATION  OF  CHRISTIAN  INFLUENCE 

days  in  his  native  land.  But  he  returned  to  his  beloved 
Tahiti,  and  for  three  or  four  years  longer  he  laboured, 
though  with  ever-increasing  bodily  weakness,  in  the  field 
where  his  life  had  been  so  usefully  spent.  The  end  came 
on  May  i,  1844.  Joseph  Moore,  one  of  his  colleagues,  in 
a  letter  dated  Papara,  May  13,  1844,  conveyed  to  the 
Directors  the  tidings  of  his  departure:  — 

'  For  many  months  he  had  been  quite  disabled.  A  stroke 
of  palsy  had  unfitted  him  for  writing  or  anything  else  which 
required  the  use  of  his  hands.  .  .  .  The  great  change  mani- 
fest in  the  Tahitians  was  a  fruitful  source  of  sorrow  to  him. 
Once,  to  speak  was  to  secure  a  prompt  and  cheerful  obedi- 
ence, but  now  nothing  had  charms  but  dollars.  .  .  .  When 
his  mind  was  more  at  ease  he  would  converse  on  the  great 
subject  of  salvation.  His  dependence  on  Christ  was  most 
firm,  and  his  expressions  concerning  his  own  hopes  most 
simple.  .  .  .  His  work  was  done  when  the  Bible  was  com- 
pleted. Glorious  work,  indeed  1  destined,  I  hope,  to  keep 
out  Popery  from  many  a  heart  when  we  are  all  compelled 
to  leave,  and  when  the  arm  of  power  shall  have  enthroned 
it  on  Tahiti.' 

So  passed  to  his  rest  Henry  Nott,  the  most  powerful 
personality  of  the  first  missionary  enterprise  of  the  Society. 
He  was  a  native  of  Bromsgrove.  He  had  received  no 
special  intellectual  training,  but  in  the  course  of  his  life- 
work  he  had  been  constrained  to  undertake  literary  labour 
of  the  most  arduous  kind.  He  was  possessed  of  a  child- 
like trust  in  Jesus  Christ,  and  of  an  unshakable  belief  that 
the  Gospel  was  the  one  only  remedy  for  the  ignorance  and 
sorrows  and  sins  of  men.  He  was  also  endowed  with  an 
unusual  portion  of  sound  common  sense  and  tenacity  of 
purpose,  and  undauntedly,  tirelessly,  he  lived  his  life  and 
accomplished  his  work.  God  manifested  His  grace  in  him 
by  enabling  him  to  unlock  the  treasures  of  His  Word  to 
Polynesia,  and  he  played  a  chief  part  in  the  conversion 
of  Tahiti  and  the  adjacent  islands  from  savage  barbarism 
to  Christianity  and  to  comparative  civilization.  No  worldly 
honours  fell  to  his  lot  ;  but  his  name  will  ever  stand  high 


CHARACTER   OF  HENRY  NOTT  305 

upon  the  roll  of  the  world's  benefactors,  and  his  works 
follow  him  wherever  and  whenever  the  Tahitian  Scriptures 
are  received  and  studied.  It  was  fitting  that  after  forty- 
seven  years  of  faithful  service  his  last  resting-place  should 
be  on  the  island  his  labours  had  so  greatly  blessed  ^. 


[Authorities: — Letters  and  Reports  ;  The  Annual  Reports  of  the  Society  ; 
and  the  MS,  History  of  the  Mission  in  Tahiti^  written  by  Davies  and  revised 
by  Nott.] 

^  A  lady  resident  in  Birmingham,  who  well  remembered,  when  a  girl,  seeing 
and  hearing  Henry  Nott  during  his  visit  to  Birmingham  in  1826,  wrote  under 
date  of  February,  1896:  'He  was  Mr.  John  Angell  James's  guest  during  his 
stay  in  Birmingham,  so  that  we  saw  and  heard  more  of  him  than  we  should 
otherwise  have  done.  One  day  he  went  over  to  his  native  place  (Bromsgrove), 
about  thirteen  miles  from  hence,  I  think,  by  coach,  to  make  inquiry  after  his 
family.  At  the  old  site  no  one  of  this  name  could  be  found.  Walking  through 
the  fields,  he  accosted  a  man  with  the  question  whether  he  knew  anything  of 
a  family  named  Nott,  that  formerly  lived  there.  "Yes,"  said  the  man,  "  there 
was  such  a  family,  but  there  are  none  living  here  now.  The  father  and  mother 
are  dead.  There  was  a  son  who  lived  hereabouts;  and  there  was  another  son. 
Henry,  who  went  a  great  way  off,  to  a  country,  they  said,  where  the  bread  grows 
upon  the  trees."  It  was  strange  news  to  hear  that  he  stood  face  to  face  with 
that  very  Henry  Nott,  and  it  created  some  sensation  in  the  little  town,  for  many 
of  the  people  came  to  the  house  where  the  stranger  lodged,  to  see  the  man  from 
"the  country  where  the  bread  grows  upon  the  trees."  A  valedictory  meeting 
was  gathered  at  Carrs  Lane  Chapel,  which  was  crowded  to  the  utmost  extent  of 
its  capacity.  The  veteran  missionary  adopted  for  his  closing  address  the  words 
of  St.  Paul— "  Finally,  brethren,  farewell"  (2  Cor.  xiii.  11).  He  did  not  go  on 
to  the  exhortation  which  followed  this  initiative  in  the  Apostle's  letter.  He 
was  probably  too  modest  to  do  that.  The  three  words  chosen  were  filled  with 
touching  interest  and  power.  Between  the  speaker  and  the  congregation  there 
seemed  to  be  a  warm  and  tender  tie  of  respectful  affection,  hardly  to  be  expressed 
by  demonstrative  applause.  So  it  seems  in  my  recollection  now.  And  it 
appeared  to  us  then,  in  our  youthful  days,  that  his  soul  lived  in  a  region  where 
tlie  flattering  commendations  of  men  could  not  reach  him  with  any  injurious 
effect.  He  had  known  the  reality  of  the  long  and  patient  conflict  with  idolatry 
and  wickedness ;  and  perhaps  the  praises  of  men  at  home  seemed  to  him  only 
so  much  talk.' 


I. 


CHAPTER    VIII 

THE   CONQUEST   OF   TAHITI   BY   FRANCE 

In  May,  1834,  two  French  priests,  named  Francis  Caret 
and  Louis  James  Laval,  with  an  assistant  named  Columban 
Murphy,  sailed  from  Bordeaux  for  Valparaiso.  They  were 
part  of  an  active  propaganda  undertaken  largely  by  a  French 
Roman  Catholic  organization  called  the  Society  of  Picpus, 
'  to  propagate  the  Roman  Catholic  religion  by  missions 
among  unbelievers  and  pagans.'  From  Valparaiso  they 
wrote  to  their  superiors,  who  published  in  the  Annales 
de  la  Propagation  de  la  Foi,  an  account  of  their  doings, 
in  which  the  following  words  are  found  : — 

^  The  Biblical  missionaries,  sent  by  the  English  societies, 
appear  to  have  undertaken  of  late  to  invade  all  the  islands 
of  the  Pacific  Ocean.  They  think,  no  doubt,  that  they  will 
easily  establish  their  domination  over  people  but  recently 
discovered,  docile,  and  to  whom  the  Gospel  has  not  yet 
been  announced.  The  English  Government  favours  them 
for  ends  purely  political ;  already  they  have  presses,  have 
raised  manufactories,  and  of  course  exercise  great  influence. 
.  .  .  Some  persons  endeavour  to  dissuade  us  from  our 
purpose,  by  telling  us  that  the  Protestants  are  everywhere, 
and  that  the  natives  will  kill  us.  We  only  see  in  this  the 
rage  of  the  demon,  who  feels  that  we  are  approaching,  and 
prevents  us  from  entering  the  countries  where  he  is  master^.' 

*  Tahiti:  a  Review  of  the  Origin,  Character,  and  Progress  of  French 
Roman  Catholic  Efforts  for  the  Destruction  of  English  Protestant  Mis  Hans 
in  the  South  Seas,  p.  3.     John  Snow,  London,  1844. 


FRENCH  PRIESTS  LAND   ON  TAHITI  307 

Caret,  Laval,  and  Murphy  left  Valparaiso  on  July  16,1834, 
and  on  August  7  reached  the  Gambier  Islands.  Murph)^ 
in  the  disguise  of  a  carpenter,  was  sent  on  as  a  spy  to 
Tahiti,  to  pave  the  way  for  French  priestcraft  and  the 
overthrow  of  Protestant  Christianity.  Some  time  prior 
to  this,  a  Belgian,  Moerenhout  by  name,  had  secured 
appointment  as  United  States  Consul  at  Papeete.  This 
man,  who  had  at  first  been  greatly  aided  by  Mr.  Pritchard, 
and  in  return  had  become  his  bitter  enemy,  sided  with  the 
French,  and  did  everything  in  his  power  to  forward  their 
schemes.    Caret  and  Laval  reached  Tahiti  on  November  20. 

'  We  got  on  shore  on  one  of  the  points  of  Tautira,  the 
place  most  distant  from  the  port.  No  sooner  had  we  cast 
anchor  than  we  disembarked,  and  we  were  right  in  using 
all  dispatch,  for  we  had  scarcely  landed,  when  one  of  the 
chiefs  of  the  district  went  on  board  the  schooner  to  order 
her  to  stand  off,  and  not  to  land  any  passengers.  But  we 
were  already  on  shore  and  had  given  the  salutation  of  peace 
to  this  island,  partly  idolatrous  and  partly  heretic^.' 

So  far  the  French  account.  Mr.  Pritchard  had  been  for 
some  time,  at  the  request  of  the  queen  and  chiefs,  acting 
as  British  Consul,  though  not  yet  definitely  appointed  by 
Government  to  that  post.  He  was  still  on  the  mission 
staff.  He,  in  common  with  all  the  other  missionaries, 
naturally  resented  this  incursion  of  Roman  Catholic  priests 
into  a  field  which  they  had  done  nothing  to  redeem  from 
heathenism.  This  attitude,  coupled  with  the  bitter  hostility 
manifested  towards  Pritchard  by  Moerenhout,  exerted  a  very 
adverse  influence  upon  the  after  course  of  events.  Here 
once  again  the  law  is  illustrated  that  in  religious  matters 
there  should  always  be  absolute  toleration,  the  fullest  and 
most  unfettered  freedom.  There  was  much  reason  on 
Pritchard's  side,  yet  after  events  tend  to  prove  that  had 
the  Romanists  been  allowed  to  settle  down  and  work 
quietly  on  Tahiti,  enjoying  exactly  the  same  freedom 
and  restrained  by  exactly  the  same  limitations  as  the 
London  Missionary  Society's  workers,  it  would   not  have 

^  Tahiti,  p.  16. 
X  2 


3o8       THE  CONQUEST  OE  TAHITI  BY  ERANCE 

been  so  easy  for  France  to  discover  any  reasonable  pretext 
for  interference. 

The  conflict  began  the  moment  tidings  reached  Papeete 
that  French  priests  had  landed  on  the  island.  Two  days 
after  their  arrival  at  that  port  they  had  an  audience  v^ith 
the  queen  and  chiefs,  who  had,  as  a  matter  of  course, 
requested  Mr.  Pritchard  to  be  present  as  interpreter.  The 
Frenchmen  were  accompanied  and  supported  by  Moeren- 
hout,  and  their  first  demand  was  that  Mr.  Pritchard  should 
withdraw.  Although  he  refused  to  withdraw,  and  although 
the  queen  insisted  upon  his  presence,  they  sent  for  a  native 
pilot,  and  tried  in  vain  to  get  on  with  him  as  interpreter, 
Mr.  Pritchard  having  often  to  come  to  the  rescue  in  order 
to  make  what  was  said  intelligible  in  any  measure  to  the 
queen  and  chiefs.  The  Frenchmen  offered  the  queen  a  small 
sum  of  money,  under  the  impression  that  their  case  was 
covered  by  a  native  law  which  ran,  that  if  a  captain  left 
on  the  island  any  runaway  he  had  to  pay  a  fine  of  thirty 
dollars.  They  were  informed  that  their  case  fell  under 
the  totally  different  regulation  in  the  native  code,  viz., 
'  No  master  or  commander  of  a  vessel  is  allowed  to  land 
any  passenger  without  special  permission  from  the  queen 
and  governors.'  Of  this  law  both  the  priests  and  Moeren- 
hout  affirmed  their  ignorance,  and  they  refused  to  obey 
it,  terminating  abruptly  their  audience.  When  Pritchard, 
at  the  request  of  the  queen,  sent  Moerenhout  an  official 
letter,  pointing  out  clearly  the  facts  of  the  situation, 
he  refused  to  accept  it.  Moerenhout  replied  by  a  letter 
to  the  queen,  refusing  to  receive,  as  from  her,  *  a  letter  of 
the  missionary  Pritchard,'  '  full  of  rough  and  insolent 
language,'  refusing  also  as  United  States  Consul  to  admit 
the  binding  force  of  the  law  relating  to  foreigners,  and 
expressing  ignorance  hitherto  of  its  existence. 

Regardless  of  Pomare's  orders,  Laval  and  Caret  persisted 
in  remaining  on  the  island.  Moerenhout  gave  them  a  small 
house  belonging  to  himself,  and  at  the  same  time  tried  to 
throw  over  them  the  protection  of  his  consular  authority. 
Pomare,  acting  undoubtedly  fully  within   her   rights,  and 


FRENCH  PRIESTS  BANISHED  309 

supported  by  both  the  chiefs  and  the  missionaries,  insisted 
upon  the  departure  of  the  priests.  They  acted  very  in- 
solently in  the  course  of  several  interviews,  and  in  the  con- 
duct of  their  correspondence,  and  they  continued  to  occupy 
Moerenhout's  house  in  defiance  of  the  queen.  At  last,  on 
December  14, 1836,  the  royal  officers  took  decisive  measures 
to  carry  out  the  queen's  commands,  and  though  in  a 
technical  sense  force  was  used,  no  injury  was  done  to  the 
intruders  or  to  their  effects.  They  were  compelled  to  leave 
Tahiti  in  the  vessel  which  had  brought  them  thither. 

On  January  26,  1837,  Caret  and  another  priest  named 
Maigret  appeared  again  at  Papeete,  on  board  an  American 
vessel ;  Moerenhout  at  once  visited  them.  The  captain 
sent  to  the  queen  asking  permission  to  land  the  two 
Frenchmen,  thus  acknowledging  her  right  to  prevent 
foreigners  from  landing  if  she  wished  to  do  so.  Permission 
was  refused,  and  when,  on  January  31,  a  ship's  boat 
attempted  to  put  them  on  shore,  the  natives  waded  into 
the  sea,  and  firmly,  but  without  violence,  prevented  them 
from  landing.  After  five  days  at  anchor  the  ship  pro- 
ceeded to  Valparaiso.  Caret  visited  Europe,  recounted 
in  highly  coloured  and  most  inaccurate  fashion  the  story 
of  his  supposed  wrongs,  and  invited  the  aid  of  the 
French  authorities  and  of  the  Pope. 

Moerenhout,  immediately  after  the  departure  of  Caret 
and  Laval,  had  written  to  the  French  Government  highly 
coloured  and  scandalously  incorrect  accounts  of  what  had 
taken  place.  At  the  same  time  he  attributed  the  queen's 
action  entirely  to  Mr.  Pritchard's  influence.  This  was  the 
charge  which  Pritchard  should  have  striven  by  every  means 
in  his  power  to  render  inoperative.  The  queen  undoubtedly 
acted  on  her  own  initiative,  and  it  was  the  wish  of  herself 
and  of  the  chiefs  that  the  French  priests  should  not  be 
permitted  to  reside  in  Tahiti.  But  language  used  by 
Pritchard  in  his  letters  to  Moerenhout  gave  his  opponents 
the  opportunity  of  utterly  misrepresenting  the  reasons  for 
both  the  queen's  action  and  his  own.  Of  this  they  were 
not  slow  to  take  full  advantage. 


3IO       THE   CONQUEST  OF  TAHITI  BY  FRANCE 

In  Paris  the  •  insult '  to  the  French  nation  was  represented 
as  the  work  of  the  '  Methodist '  missionaries.  Stringent 
orders  were  at  once  dispatched  to  Valparaiso,  and  on 
August  27,  1838,  the  ship-of-war  Venus,  64  guns,  Captain 
Du  Petit-Thouars,  anchored  off  Papeete.  The  French 
captain  refused  to  even  listen  to  Pomare's  protest  that  the 
account  of  what  had  happened  upon  which  he  was  acting 
was  incorrect,  and  that  no  Frenchmen  had  been  treated 
either  unjustly  or  unkindly.  Twenty-four  hours  only  were 
allowed,  and  he  announced  that  then,  unless  his  terms  were 
complied  with,  he  would  open  fire  upon  Papeete.  Pomare 
was  thus  compelled  to  apologize  to  the  French  king  for 
supposed  violence  done  to  his  subjects,  to  pay  Laval  and 
Caret  a  fine  of  10  coo  francs  (^^400),  and  to  salute  the 
French  flag.  The  grotesque  side  of  the  transaction  appears 
when  Captain  Petit-Thouars  found  that  the  French  flag 
could  be  saluted  only  if  he  chose  to  find  the  powder.  This 
he  would  not  do  directly,  but  managed  it  by  making  a  gift 
of  the  needful  quantity  to  Mr.  Pritchard,  who  handed  it 
over  to  the  natives.  The  crowning  insult  to  Pomare  as  an 
independent  ruler  was  the  appointment  of  Moerenhout,  who 
for  his  action  in  the  whole  affair  had  been  dismissed  from 
office  by  the  United  States,  as  French  Consul  at  Tahiti. 

Between  the  departure  of  the  French  priests  and  the 
arrival  of  the  Venus,  Mr.  Pritchard  had  received  notification 
of  his  appointment  by  the  British  Government  as  consul 
at  Tahiti.  This  was  towards  the  close  of  1837.  The 
Directors  at  the  same  time  informed  him  that  his  con- 
nection with  the  Society  was  necessarily  dissolved.  But 
though  no  longer  on  the  staff  of  the  Society,  he  resolved  to 
continue  missionary  work  as  a  voluntary  agent.  His  action 
in  this  and  in  other  respects  led  to  serious  differences  of 
opinion  among  his  brethren.  Cases  have  been  not  in- 
frequent since,  in  different  parts  of  the  world,  in  which 
missionaries  have  resigned  their  connection  with  the  Society 
to  become  consuls.  It  is  natural  that  men  who  become 
so  intimately  acquainted  with  the  natives  should  be  attracted 
to  Government  posts.     But  while  there  have  been  in  the 


PR  ITCH  A  RD  BECOMES  BRITISH  CONSUL       311 

course  of  the  century  the  exceptions  which  prove  the  rule, 
it  is,  nevertheless,  distinctly  a  practice  to  be  avoided.  And 
certainly,  if  a  missionary  accepts  a  Government  post  of  any 
kind,  there  should  be  an  absolute  and  immediate  severance 
of  any  official  connection  with  the  Society.  Pritchard's 
attempt  to  combine  consular  with  mission  work  had  a  most 
important  influence  upon  many  of  the  troubles  which  after- 
wards came  upon  Tahiti. 

How  his  brethren  viewed  the  matter  appears  from  their 
letters.  Mr.  Darling,  for  example,  under  date  of  December  4, 
]  837,  wrote :  '  The  chiefs  and  the  churches  seem  to  detest  the 
idea  of  a  missionary  becoming  a  consul.'  When,  after  his 
appointment,  Mr.  Pritchard  went  to  Papaoa  to  administer 
the  Lord's  Supper  '  every  member  left  the  chapel.'  In 
addition  to  the  difficulty  caused  by  Mr.  Pritchard's  action, 
just  at  this  time  the  old  trading  difficulty  became  a  fresh 
source  of  trouble.  Orsmond,  m  a  letter  dated  December  25, 
1837,  writes  that  he  is  willing  to  give  up  barter,  but  that  \{ 
he  does  he  '  will  have  to  draw  more  deeply  on  the  Society.' 
Orsmond's  statements  always  need  checking  by  others,  but 
there  was  possibly  in  regard  to  one  or  two  of  his  colleagues 
a  measure  of  truth  in  his  altogether  too  sweeping  description : 
'  We  are  a  set  of  trading  priests,  our  closets  are  neglected, 
and  our  cloth  disgraced.' 

In  November,  1838,  a  British  ship,  the  Fly,  visited  Tahiti, 
and  whilst  she  was  there  the  natives  held  a  large  meeting, 
which  Captain  Elliott  and  some  of  his  officers  and  the 
missionaries  attended,  and  decided  that  it  should  be  made 
illegal  for  Roman  Catholicism  to  be  taught  in  public.  In 
April,  1839,  a  French  man-of-war,  the  Artemise,  having 
struck  on  the  reef,  was  towed  into  Papeete  for  repairs. 
The  crew  spent  several  weeks  on  shore,  and  the  wildest 
licentious  indulgence  prevailed  during  the  whole  time. 
Before  the  frigate  left,  Pomare  was  compelled  by  the 
commander,  M.  Laplace,  to  sign  a  treaty  abrogating  the 
law  passed  in  November,  1838,  and  giving  to  Roman 
Catholics  every  advantage  enjoyed  by  Protestants. 

This    incident  affords  a   further  proof  of  the    folly    of 


312       THE   CONQUEST  OF  TAHITI  BY  FRANCE 

attempting  to  regulate  religious  teaching  by  legal  enact- 
ments. The  French  demand  obtained  a  colour  of  reason- 
ableness, which  it  did  not  really  deserve,  from  the  unwise 
action  previously  taken  by  the  natives.  It  is  true  that 
some  of  the  missionaries  were  strongly  opposed  to  the 
course  the  natives  took,  and  none,  probably,  at  all  warmly 
sympathized  with  their  action ;  yet  the  missionaries  as 
a  body  did  not  attempt,  as  they  might  have  done,  by 
united  action,  to  prevent  the  law  from  passing. 

In  judging  the   part  played   by  both  missionaries   and 
natives  at  this  time,  it  is  most  important  to  bear  in  mind 
the  true   character  of  the  latter.     This  added  greatly  to 
the  difficulties  of  the  missionaries,  and  also  strengthened 
the    hands    of    the    French.      The    reinforcement    of  the 
mission  by  the  men  John  Williams  brought  from  England, 
in   the   Camden   in    1838,   was   followed    by    results    little 
anticipated  either  at  home  or  at  Tahiti.    The  new  men  were 
Charles  Green  Stevens,  Thomas  Joseph,  Robert  Thomson, 
George    Charter,   and   Joseph   Johnston,   who   all    landed 
at  Tahiti  March  12,   1839.     William   Howe,  stationed   at 
Afareaitu,  arrived   August   3,   1839.      Their    expectations 
had  been  raised  to  a  high  pitch  by  the  glowing  descrip- 
tions Williams  had   given    in    his   speeches   and   writings, 
and    they   found    on    their    arrival    that   the   actual   state 
of  affairs   was   very  different    from    that  drawn    by  their 
imagination.      Very  soon   there  arose  a  conflict  of  state- 
ments,  which   appear  to   prove  that   to   some  extent  the 
mission  had  been  and  was  still  being  worked  on  a  faulty 
basis.     The  Directors,  having   received    several    emphatic 
expressions   of  disappointment,  and   dark  pictures  of  the 
condition  of  the  mission   from   these    brethren,   instructed 
all  the  missionaries  to  send  home  their  '  candid  opinions.' 
with  a  true  description  of  the  state  of  affairs.     The  reports 
supplied  by  the  younger  missionaries  in  response  to  this 
request   are    full    and    precise,  whilst  those    of  the    older 
men  are  brief  and  unsatisfactory,  concerned   chiefly  with 
generalities.     The  older  workers  said,  in  effect,  that  things 
were  going  on  as  well   as   could    be   expected,  that    the 


NATIVE  DISRESPECT  TO  MISSIONARIES       313 

younger  men  were  not  fit  for  the  work,  that  their  expecta- 
tions had  been  unduly  raised  by  Williams,  and  Davies  goes 
so  far  as  to  say  that  they  '  put  a  wrong  construction  upon 
most  of  the  things  that  came  under  their  notice.'  The 
}'Ounger  men,  on  the  other  hand,  maintained  that  the 
bartering  and  commercial  pursuits  of  the  older  missionaries, 
necessitated,  as  we  have  seen,  by  the  insufficient  salaries 
allowed  by  the  Directors,  were  evil  in  their  influence,  and 
a  great  hindrance  to  the  progress  of  the  mission,  tending 
to  infect  the  religion  of  the  people  with  a  spirit  of  gross 
formalism  and  selfishness.  The  younger  brethren  implored 
the  Directors  to  forbid  all  bartering  and  commerce,  and 
to  raise  salaries  to  at  least  ^^140  per  annum. 

It  is  evident  too  that  the  older  missionaries,  whilst 
asserting  that  the  younger  brethren  were  prejudiced, 
were,  to  some  extent,  Tahitianized  in  their  ideas  of  social 
life.  In  confirmation  of  this  view  we  may  quote  an 
extract  from  a  letter  sent  home  by  Joseph  Johnston  dated 
September  16,  1839: — 

^Whilst  speaking  about  the  stations  on  this  island, 
I  would  at  the  same  time  make  a  few  observations  on  the 
people,  and  I  cannot  but  remark  that  their  state  is  very 
different  from  what  I  expected  and  from  the  representations 
I  have  heard  in  England  from  the  platform.  Instead  of 
giving  me  a  kind  and  cordial  reception,  the  people  say 
my  object  and  that  of  the  new  brethren  is  to  trade  and 
gain  money.  I  find  it  almost  impossible  to  eradicate  from 
their  minds  this  notion  ;  they  are  continually  requesting 
me  to  sell  or  give  away  my  property,  and  in  almost  every 
dealing  I  have  with  them  they  attempt  to  defraud.  Instead 
of  finding  them  attached  to  their  missionaries,  I  see  them 
treat  those  gentlemen  with  disrespect  and  insolence.  They 
subject  them  to  innumerable  petty  annoyances  and  rob 
them  frequently.  Mr.  Davies  and  Mr.  Wilson  have  had 
property  stolen  repeatedly  since  my  arrival,  and  Mr.  Henry 
has  been  obliged  to  suspend  his  church  lately  for  stealing 
his  cattle  ;  he  thinks  he  has  lost  fifty  head.  They  charge 
exorbitant    prices    for    everything    they    sell    or    do,    and 


314      THE  CONQUEST  OF  TAHITI  BY  FRANCE 

insist  upon  being  paid  in  money  ;  if  we  offer  them  cloth, 
they  will  not  look  at  it,  except  it  be  of  the  gayest  and  best 
description  ;  they  prefer  going  to  the  stores  of  the  merchants 
at  Papeete  for  their  goods.  The  prices  they  charge  for 
tables  and  chairs  here,  and  which  after  all  are  but  clumsily 
made,  are  so  high  as  to  render  it  impossible  to  obtain  them. 

'  The  state  of  the  churches  here  is  very  deplorable.  I  do 
not  think  I  have  met  with  one  individual  who  is  a  member 
that  does  not  evince  the  sam.e  covetousness  exhibited  by 
those  who  make  no  profession.  The  churches  are  large, 
and  nearly  all  the  chiefs  and  raatiras  are  members,  but 
many  of  them  are  utterly  unfit  to  sit  down  at  the  table 
of  our  Lord.  The  queen,  a  wicked  and  violent  woman, 
is  a  member  of  a  church,  notwithstanding  she  lately  coun- 
tenanced by  her  presence  one  of  the  native  dances. 
Mr.  Simpson  has  suspended  his  church  on  account  of  their 
return  to  the  same  heathen  custom.  Tati  is  a  church 
member,  whilst  he  is  at  the  same  time  an  avaricious  and 
oppressive  man  ;  so  is  Paofai,  the  abettor  of  the  Popish 
party  and  notorious  for  dishonesty.  It  is  not  in  Tahiti 
only  that  such  a  state  of  things  exists.  I  have  lately 
received  a  note  from  Mr.  Charter  of  Tahaa  in  which  there 
is  the  following  : — "  The  parents  use  no  efforts  to  constrain 
their  children  to  come  to  school,  therefore  we  have  not 
any  ;  the  condition  of  the  young  people  is  awfully  wretched, 
wretched  beyond  description — they  are  confirmed  in  sin 
and  iniquity,  and  have  no  desire  that  their  state  should 
be  improved  ;  tell  them  they  are  going  in  the  road  to 
everlasting  death,  they  reply,  *  We  know  it,  but  it  is  very 
pleasant  to  live  in  sin.'  They  are  very  dishonest,  and  it 
appears  the  desire  of  one  and  all  to  defraud  us  in  all  our 
dealings  with  them." ' 

These  letters  are  quoted  because  it  is  right  to  put  both 
aspects  of  the  mission  at  this  period  on  record.  At  the 
same  time  it  should  be  borne  in  rnind  that  Johnston  and 
Charter  had  been  in  the  islands  less  than  six  months,  and 
must  have  been  guided  very  largely  by  hasty  and  surface 
impressions. 


PRITCHARD'S  INFLUENCE  315 

The  desire,  already  noted,  on  the  part  of  Mr.  Pritchard 
to  combine  consular  duties  with  missionary  work  during 

1839  and  1840,  led  to  further  internal  troubles  in  the  mis- 
sion.    After   much  dissension  the   natives  elected   him  in 

1840  sole  pastor  of  the  church  at  Papeete,  with  the  under- 
standing that  they  themselves  were  to  pay  him  a  salary. 
This  action  on  their  part  led  to  the  ejection  of  the  official 
pastor,  Mr.  Thomas  Joseph,  who  thereupon  retired  to  Pare 
and  carried  on  mission-work  there.  Pritchard's  reasons 
for  acting  in  this  unconstitutional  way  appear  to  have  been 
that  his  consular  duties  occupied  only  a  few  hours  a  week, 
and  that  his  interest  in  and  desire  to  do  mission-work 
had  been  in  no  degree  lessened  by  his  acceptance  of 
Government  office.  Having  resided  on  the  island  for 
sixteen  years  he  belonged  to  the  older  section  of  mission- 
aries, and  doubtless  gave  scant  weight  to  the  opinion  of 
the  men  who  had  only  just  come  upon  the  scene.  Nott, 
who  had  only  just  returned  from  England  after  an  absence 
of  several  years,  writes  under  date  October  27,  1840:  'On 
my  arrival  I  found  that  everything  had  been  attended 
to  by  our  Brother  Pritchard  during  my  absence  in  England 
that  I  could  have  expected.  I  did  not,  however,  find  that 
the  disposition  of  some  of  the  brethren  towards  him  was 
what  I  could  have  hoped  for.'  Later  on.  in  the  same  letter, 
he  remarks :  '  What  a  misfortune  it  was  that  Brother 
Pritchard  was  not  at  his  station  when  the  French  Artemise 
arrived.  I  am  persuaded  that  had  he  been  there  those 
evil  and  unjust  things  would  never  have  happened,  but 
would  have  met  with  a  proper  and  well-directed  rebuke, 
and  the  Frenchman  would  have  gone  away  ashamed.' 

Owing  to  hostile  action  on  the  part  of  the  French 
authorities,  to  whom  from  the  first  he  was  extremely 
obnoxious,  Mr.  Pritchard  was  compelled  to  return  to 
England.  He  left  Tahiti  at  the  close  of  1840,  not  returning 
until  February  25,  1843.  During  the  interval  the  first 
proclamation  of  the  French  Protectorate  took  place. 
Further  reinforcements  of  missionary  workers  had  arrived — 
Alfred  Smee,  printer,  1841  ;  Thomas  Smith  McKean  and 


3i6      THE   CONQUEST  OF  TAHITI  BY  FRANCE 

John  Thomas  Jesson,  missionaries,  1842.  The  letters  of 
these  brethren  give  much  more  encouraging  and  hopeful 
views  of  the  future  of  the  island  than  those  written  two 
or  three  years  previously.  Differences  of  view  were  less 
marked,  and  a  spirit  of  harmony  prevailed.  Preaching 
tours  were  resumed,  and  large  quantities  of  Bibles  were 
eagerly  bought  by  the  natives.  But  the  arrival  on 
September  i,  1842,  of  a  French  frigate,  La  Reine  Blanche, 
commanded  by  the  man  who  had  acted  so  harshly  in  1839, 
now  Admiral  Du  Petit-Thouars,  threw  everything  into 
confusion  once  more.  On  September  5  the  French  admiral 
sent  messengers  to  Eimeo  to  summon  Pomare  who  was 
there,  expecting  daily  to  be  confined.  On  September  9 
a  meeting  was  held  between  the  French  and  the  chiefs, 
having  been  preceded  by  a  secret  meeting  during  the 
night  with  four  disaffected  leading  chiefs.  For  some  time 
previously  M.  Moerenhout,  the  French  Consul,  had  been 
intriguing  with  some  of  the  chiefs,  and  entrapping  them 
into  requesting  a  French  Protectorate,  unknown  of  course 
to  Pomare.  In  harmony  with  the  underhand  and  disgrace- 
ful methods  followed  by  Moerenhout  in  all  his  dealings 
with  the  natives,  at  this  midnight  meeting  the  following 
document  had  been  signed  : — 

'  To  the  Admiral  A.  Du  Petit-Thouars. 

'  Because  we  are  not  able  to  govern  in  our  own  kingdom 
in  the  present  circumstances  so  as  to  harmonize  with 
Foreign  Governments,  lest  our  land,  our  kingdom,  and 
our  liberty  should  become  that  of  another,  We  whose 
names  are  written  below,  viz.  the  queen  and  principal 
chiefs  of  Tahiti,  write  to  you  to  ask  that  the  shadow  of 
the  King  of  the  French  may  be  thrown  over  us, 

*  On  the  following  conditions — 

'  1st.  That  the  Title  and  government  of  the  queen  and 
the  authority  also  of  the  principal  chiefs  of  Tahiti  remain 
in  themselves  over  their  people. 

'  2nd.  That  all  laws  and  observances  be  established  in  the 


FRENCH  PROTECTORATE  DEMANDED         317 

name  of  the  queen,  and  have  her  signature  attached  to 
them  to  render  them  binding  on  her  subjects. 

'  3rd.  That  the  lands  of  the  queen  and  all  her  people 
shall  remain  in  their  own  hands.  And  all  discussions  about 
land  shall  be  among  themselves— foreigners  shall  not 
interfere. 

'  4th.  That  every  man  shall  follow  that  religion  which 
accords  with  his  own  desire.  No  one  shall  influence  him 
in  his  thoughts  towards  God. 

'  5th.  That  the  places  of  worship  belonging  to  the  English 
Missionaries,  which  are  now  known,  shall  remain  un- 
molested;,  and  the  British  Missionaries  shall  continue  to 
perform  the  .duties  of  their  office. 

'  6th.  That  Persons  of  all  other  persuasions  shall  be 
entitled  to  equal  privileges. 

*  On  these  conditions,  if  agreeable,  the  queen  and  chiefs 
solicit  the  protection  of  the  King  of  the  French. 

'  The  affairs  concerning  foreign  Governments,  as  also 
concerning  foreign  residents  on  Tahiti,  are  to  be  left  with 
the  French  Government,  and  with  the  officers  appointed 
by  that  Government — such  as  port  regulations,  &c.,  &c. 

'And  with  them  shall  rest  all  those  functions  which  are 
calculated  to  produce  harmony  and  peace. 

'  Signed 

Paraita,  Speaker  to  Queen. 
Utami    j 

HiTOTI   >  Principal  Chiefs.' 
Tati        ) 

The  French  admiral  demanded  the  queen's  signature 
to  this  document,  or  the  payment  of  a  fine  of  ten  thousand 
dollars  v/ithin  twenty-four  hours.  If  she  failed  within  that 
time  to  comply  with  his  terms,  he  asserted  that  he  shoukl 
hoist  the  French  flag,  and  formally  annex  the  island.  Of 
the  two  evils  the  queen  chose  what  seemed  the  lesser,  and 
one  hour  before  the  end  of  the  allotted  time  signed  the 
document,  and  was  thus  forced  into  accepting  a  French 
Protectorate. 


3i8      THE  CONQUEST  OF  TAHITI  BY  FRANCE 

Having  in  this  way,  by  a  combination  of  trickery  and 
force,  accomplished  his  designs,  Du  Petit-Thouars  wrote 
home  to  his  Government  that  Tahiti  bad,  of  its  own  free 
will,  solicited  French  protection  !  Although  the  true  state 
of  the  case  was  represented  both  to  the  British  and  French 
Governments  nothing  was  done  to  redress  this  monstrous 
injustice.  The  English  Government,  with  a  disregard  of 
British  interests  which  has  occasionally  characterized  its 
action  in  matters  arising  out  of  missionary  labour  and 
success,  refused  to  interfere  except  by  barren  words  and 
useless  expressions  of  sympathy.  The  French  Government, 
lustful  after  colonial  extension,  saw  too  clearly  the  advan- 
tages to  be  derived  from  annexing  Tahiti  to  be  debarred 
by  the  fact  that  only  by  force  and  deception  could  it  be 
brought  under  the  French  Crown. 

Pomare's  appeal  to  England  having  proved  fruitless,  the 
French  aggression  was  pushed  still  further.  On  November  2, 
]  843,  Du  Petit-Thouars  returned  to  Tahiti  in  the  La  Reine 
Blanche  accompanied  by  the  Ambuscade.  On  November  5 
two  other  frigates  anchored  off  Papeete,  one  of  them  con- 
taining Commissary-royal  Bruat.  Pomare,  still  asserting 
her  independence,  had  repudiated  the  French  Protectorate, 
and  hoisted  her  ov/n  flag.  The  French  on  November  7 
landed  troops,  marched  to  the  queen's  residence,  and 
insisted  that  her  flag  should  be  struck.  Upon  Pomare's 
refusal  to  do  this  her  flag  was  pulled  down  and  the  French 
colours  hoisted  in  its  place.  Pomare  herself  had  fled 
meanwhile  to  the  British  Consulate,  at  this  time  again 
occupied  by  Mr.  Pritchard,  who  also  struck  his  flag,  saying 
that  he  had  not  been  accredited  to  a  French  colony. 
Bruat  at  once  issued  a  proclamation  asserting  that  he  took 
possession  of  the  Society  Islands  in  the  name  of  the  King 
of  France,  and  promising  full  religious  toleration.  He 
also  officially  informed  each  of  the  missionaries  that  he 
would  be  glad  to  receive  them  in  his  capacity  as  governor. 
To  this  invitation  they  returned  a  joint  reply,  signed  by 
all  except  Davies,  who  was  too  infirm  to  take  any  part, 
declining  the  interview  for  the  following  reasons  : — 


OUTBREAK  OF  CIVIL    WAR  319 

'  I .  Because  we  believe  that  the  late  changes  which  have 
taken  place  in  this  island  are  opposed  to  that  great  law 
of  equity  between  man  and  man  and  nation  and  nation, 
which  constitutes  the  peculiar  genius  of  that  Gospel  which 
we  revere  as  the  inspired  Word  of  God  and  for  the  diffusion 
of  which  alone  we  live. 

'  2.  Because  we  conceive  that  our  acceptance  of  the  invi- 
tation thus  politely  given  would  in  the  estimation  of 
mankind  amount  to  a  compromise  of  that  consistency 
of  character  which  we  desire  ever  to  maintain  both  in 
the  sight  of  God  and   man. 

^  3.  Because  the  document  which  we  had  the  honour  to 
transmit  to  Rear  Admiral  Du  Petit-Thouars  in  September, 
1842,  containing  simply  an  avowal  of  our  intention  to  con- 
tinue as  we  had  ever  done  to  exhort  the  people  to  a 
peaceable  obedience  to  the  "  powers  that  be,"  has  been 
regarded  as  an  intimation  of  our  approval  of  the  trans- 
actions on  the  part  of  the  French  nation  towards  this 
people.' 

Pomare  still  expected  that  English  intervention  would 
restore  her  to  independence.  The  natives,  irritated  by  the 
conduct  of  the  P'rench,  and  daily  looking  for  English  aid, 
notwithstanding  all  the  efforts  of  the  missionaries,  left 
their  homes  and  armed  themselves.  They  were  attacked 
several  times  by  the  French,  and  much  bloodshed  ensued  ; 
and  on  June  30,  1844,  Mr.  McKean,  while  standing  on 
his  own  verandah,  was  accidentally  killed  by  a  bullet 
fired,  it  was  supposed,  by  a  native.  On  July  2,  184^,  the 
missionaries  held  a  meeting  at  Papeete,  and  decided  that 
under  existing  circumstances  it  was  advisable  that  Howe, 
Jesson,  Joseph,  and  Moore  should  sail  for  England,  and 
that  Buchanan  should  go  over  to  the  Hervey  group. 
Mr.  Barff  was  to  take  charge  of  Afareaitu,  Thomson  of 
Papeete,  and  Johnston  of  Papara.  Pritchard  had  been 
imprisoned  by  order  of  the  French  governor.  Orsmond 
had  for  some  time  past  been  aiding  the  French,  and  inter- 
fering in  political  matters,  and  now  ceases  to  have  any 
further   official    connection    with    the    mission.      Mr.    and 


320       THE   CONQUEST  OF  TAHITI  BY  FRANCE 

Mrs.  Wilson  retired  to  Samoa.  This  decision  doubtless 
seemed  right  at  the  time,  but  in  the  light  of  subsequent 
events  it  would  have  been  better  to  remain  on  the  field. 
Had  the  missionaries  remained  on  quietly,  working  within 
the  lines  laid  down  by  the  French,  they  would  have 
retained  a  large  measure  of  their  influence  over  the 
natives.  As  it  was,  the  departure  of  so  many  only  left  the 
field  all  the  more  open  to  French  and  to  anti-Protestant 
influences. 

Early  in  the  year  Pomare  had  taken  refuge  on  board 
the  Basilisk,  a  small  British  vessel  stationed  at  Papeete, 
and  in  July  the  Carysfort,  British  man-of-war,  conveyed 
her  to  Raiatea.  She  had  avowed  her  determination  of 
never  setting  foot  again  upon  Tahiti  until  her  independence 
was  acknowledged  once  again,  and  she  herself  recognized 
as  an  absolute  queen.  Meanwhile,  the  natives  remained  in 
their  fortified  camp  in  the  mountains.  In  August,  1845,  the 
Collingwood,  an  English  ship,  commanded  by  Sir  George 
Seymour,  arrived  at  Papeete,  and  by  order  of  the  British 
Government  formally  acknowledged  the  French  Protectorate, 
and  as  a  consequence  the  forcible  deposition  of  Pomare. 

Mr.  Thomson,  in  a  letter  dated  December  11,  1845,  gives 
the  following  graphic  description  of  the  events  connected 
with  this  important  visit : — 

'  During  his  stay  he  sent  one  of  his  officers  to  Papenoo 
to  inform  the  chiefs  and  people  in  the  camp  that  "England 
having  now  recognized  the  Protectorate  they  must  not 
expect  assistance  from  him,"  "  nor  from  any  English  ships 
coming  here."  "That  England  would  not  interfere,"  &c. 
The  Chaplain  of  the  Collingwood  and  I  accompanied  the 
Lieut.  I  interpreted  his  message  and  the  people's  reply. 
The  meeting  was  a  very  interesting  one;  the  Lieut,  informed 
the  chiefs  in  private,  they  were  very  much  downcast  and 
left  the  house  one  by  one  without  speaking.  About  two 
hours  afterwards  we  all  attended  a  meeting  in  the  chapel — 
it  was,  as  all  meetings  are,  opened  with  prayers.  The  Lieut, 
then  delivered  his  message  in  public,  when  the  meeting 
replied  thro'  several  speakers :  "  We  are  sorry  to  hear  the 


TAHITI  SEIZED  BY  FRENCH   TROOPS        321 

message  now  delivered,  but  give  our  respects  \aroha)  to 
our  admiral  and  say  that  it  does  not  alter  our  determina- 
tion. We  will  abide  by  the  decision  of  our  queen.  If 
she  submits  we  will  submit,  if  she  resists  we  will  defend  her, 
&c.,  and  as  for  ourselves  we  remain  for  ever  the  attached 
allies  of  England.  We  pledged  ourselves  as  the  allies  of 
England  at  the  meeting  held  at  Papeete,  while  the  Talbot 
was  here,  before  the  assembled  nation,  and  nothing  can 
shake  our  resolution.  For  England !  For  England  for 
ever !  "  At  the  close  of  the  meeting  they  all  came  forward 
and  shook  hands  with  the  officers,  the  speakers  apolo- 
gizing for  the  warmth  with  which  they  had  expressed  their 
sentiments.  Both  the  officers  were  quite  overcome ;  they 
said, "  Come,  let  us  go,  we  cannot  stand  this."  They  would 
rather  have  met  the  French  in  battle.' 

The  critical  struggle — if  struggle  it  can  be  called — be- 
tween the  natives  and  the  French  occurred  in  1846.  A  full 
and  interesting  account  is  given  in  a  letter  written  to  the 
Directors  on  June  27,  1846,  by  Mr.  Darling,  then  a  veteran 
missionary : — 

*  Bunaauia,  the  station  which  I  have  occupied  for 
twenty-seven  years,  is  now  a  French  military  station,  in 
every  sense  of  the  word.  The  people  are  driven  to  the 
valley,  where  they  have  formed  themselves  into  a  camp, 
about  four  or  five  miles  from  the  seaside.  The  French  are 
building  forts  at  Bunaauia,  in  order  to  keep  the  people 
in  the  valley  until  they  will  submit  to  the  Protectorate 
Government,  as  it  is  called.  For  about  two  or  three  weeks 
in  May  the  French  troops  were  employed  in  making  war 
against  the  camp  at  Papenoo.  The  people  there  were  driven 
up  the  valley,  but  not  subdued  ;  the  settlement  and  district 
were  laid  waste,  and  the  greatest  destruction  took  place 
for  miles  along  the  coast — not  a  bread-fruit  tree  was  left 
standing.  Having  completed  their  desolating  work  in  that 
quarter,  they  then  turned  towards  Bunaauia,  expecting  to 
succeed  better  in  speedily  making  the  people  on  this  side  of 
Papeete  submit  and  receive  their  Protectorate  Government. 

'  A  large  army  was  raised,  consisting  of  soldiers,  sailors, 

I.  Y 


322       THE   CONQUEST  OF  TAHITI  BY  FRANCE 

and  natives,  who  had  joined  the  French  against  their 
countrymen  who  are  standing  up  for  their  queen  and 
country.  It  is  said  the  number  in  arms  were  nearly  one 
thousand.  This  large  force,  together  with  a  steamer  and 
several  gun-boats  from  French  ships  of  war  lying  in  Papeete 
Harbour,  came  to  our  district  on  the  28th  of  May.  The 
people  repaired  to  a  fortification  they  had  made  about 
a  mile  from  the  station  towards  Papeete,  where  they 
intended  to  fight  the  French  ;  but  in  the  night  they  found 
out  that  Governor  Bruat  intended  to  send  a  party  over 
the  mountains  to  prevent  them  retreating  to  the  valley 
if  they  should  be  worsted.  This  alarmed  the  natives,  and 
they  retreated  to  the  valley  at  once,  without  waiting  the 
arrival  of  the  French  at  the  place.  This  left  the  sea  side 
entirely  open,  and  on  Friday  morning,  the  29th,  the  whole 
of  the  French  army  marched  to  Bunaauia,  and  took  posses- 
sion of  the  land,  without  having  to  fire  a  single  shot.' 
•  Some  days  were  spent  in  fruitless  negotiations,  Mr.  Darling 
acting  as  intermediary  between  Governor  Bruat  and  the 
natives,  and  then  hostilities  began. 

'  On  Sabbath  morning,  by  seven  o'clock,  the  whole 
army  of  the  French  were  marching  up  the  valley  to  attack 
the  camp  of  our  people.  There  are  three  breastworks  or 
entrenchments  made  across  the  valley  at  different  places. 
A  small  skirmish  took  place  at  the  first,  about  a  mile  and 
a  half  up  the  valley ;  the  people  retreated  from  that,  the 
French  followed  ;  at  the  second  fortification,  still  farther 
up  the  valley,  the  people  again  stood  and  fought  ;  but  as 
the  third  and  last  fort  was  their  stronghold,  and  where  they 
intended  to  exert  all  their  strength  to  save  themselves, 
wives,  and  children,  beyond  this  third  fortification  their 
all  was  placed — if  that  had  been  carried  all  would  have  been 
gone.  However,  here  they  fought  like  men,  and  drove  the 
whole  French  army  back.  About  seventy  were  killed  and 
wounded  ;  four  or  five  principal  officers  were  amongst  the 
number  killed.  Only  three  on  the  side  of  the  natives  lost 
their  lives,  and  three  or  four  were  slightly  wounded.  The 
mountains   come  so  close   together  just  below  where  the 


FRENCH   VICTORY  AT  BUNAAUIA  323 

fortification  is  thrown  up,  and  so  perpendicular  on  each  side, 
that  the  natives  could  tumble  great  huge  pieces  of  rocks 
down  upon  the  French  troops,  which  killed  a  great  many, 
and  eventually  drove  them  back  without  reaching  the  forti- 
fication from  whence  the  natives  were  firing.  The  whole 
army  with  Governor  Bruat  at  their  head  returned  to  the 
seaside  about  four  o'clock  p.m.  The  wounded  had  been 
carried  down  and  put  in  our  chapel  during  the  day,  and 
the  steamer  went  twice  to  Papeete  with  officers  and  others 
who  were  killed  and  wounded.  Two  or  three  cannons 
were  taken  up  the  valley  by  horses,  but  the  nature  of  the 
mountains  prevented  them  from  being  brought  to  bear 
so  as  to  do  much  harm  to  the  natives.  The  great  stones 
hurled  down  from  the  top  of  the  mountains  kept  the  army 
from  going  near  to  the  natives'  fortification  to  injure  it. 

'  The  army  returned,  as  I  before  observed,  to  the  seaside 
in  the  afternoon,  and  at  once  began  the  work  of  destruction 
in  good  earnest — burning  houses,  trees,  fences,  and  killing 
every  living  thing  they  could  get  hold  of.  This  awful  work 
continued  for  about  a  week  or  more,  until  every  house 
within  two  or  three  miles  of  the  station  was  burnt,  and 
every  bread-fruit  was  cut  all  round  in  such  a  way  as  they 
would  soon  die ;  none  were  left  for  miles  on  each  side  of 
Bunaauia,  excepting  a  few  belonging  to  me,  and  many  even 
in  our  fence  were  destroyed. 

Foiled  for  the  moment,  the  French  desisted  from  active 
hostilities.  The  valley  was  closely  blockaded,  and  finally 
the  native  fort  captured  by  treachery.  Mr.  Darling,  in 
a  letter  dated  January  14,  1^47,  describes  the  closing  scene 
in  the  struggle  : — 

*  About  the  beginning  of  December,  a  native  of  Rapa  in 
the  Hautana  camp  (which  is  immediately  behind  Papeete, 
and  opens  a  passage  through  the  interior  to  the  other  two 
camps)  discovered  a  path  up  the  face  of  the  cliff  by  which 
a  position  might  be  gained  that  would  command  the 
camp.  He  deserted  from  the  natives,  came  to  Papeete, 
and  volunteered  to  lead  the  troops  for  a  stipulated  reward 
— I  believe  200  dollars.     Shortly  afterwards  all  the  troops 

Y   2 


324      THE   CONQUEST  OF  TAHITI  BY  FRANCE 

marched  up  the  valley.  The  great  body  placed  themselves 
in  front  of  the  regular  advance  to  the  native  camp,  as  if 
about  to  storm  it. 

'  All  in  the  camp  were  on  the  alert  to  defend  this  road  ; 
but  a  large  number  were  absent  on  a  foraging  expedition. 
In   the  meantime  the  native  of  Rapa,  with  about  thirty 
French  natives  and  forty  soldiers,  were  scaling  the  cliff  at 
a  little  distance :    the  Rapa  man,  ascending  by  the  path 
which  he  had  discovered,  and  lowering  a  rope,  pulled  up 
and  fixed  a  rope-ladder,  by  which  the  troops  gained  the 
summit  (about  i,ooo  feet  high),  and  prepared  to  fire  upon 
the  camp,  a  little  below  them.     The  natives,  seeing  that 
resistance  was  now  in  vain^  laid  down  their  arms,  and  were 
marched    in   as   prisoners   of  war.     The  carrying  of  this 
position  opened  a  passage  to  the  two  other  camps.     The 
prisoners  were  immediately  released  upon  their  submission 
to  the  Protectorate  Government ;  and  one  of  the  captive 
chiefs  was  sent  to  the  camp  at  Bunaauia,  the  nearest  to 
Hautana,  and  the  weakest,  to  advise  their  submission,  and 
to  intimate  that  if  they  continued  to  resist  they  would  be 
attacked.    They  at  once  agreed,  and  a  day  or  two  afterwards 
marched  out  and  laid  down  250  stand  of  arms — I  believe 
one-half  of  all.      Messengers  were  also  sent  to  Papenoo 
camp  :  they  hesitated  for  some  time,  but  at  last  submitted, 
and  on  New  Year's  Day  marched  into  town  and  laid  down 
their  arms,  surrendering  one-half  at  Bunaauia.     They  came 
in  procession — the  chiefs  first,  the  armed  men  next,  and 
women  and  children  last.     When  within   100  yards  of  the 
French    lines    they    halted,    knelt    down,    and    united    in 
prayer  :  then  rose  and  marched  in.     At  the  outskirt  of  the 
town,  the  native  governor  and  ma  istrates  received   them 
with   friendly  greetings,  welcomed  them  as  brethren,  and 
conducted    them    to  the  Government  House,  where   they 
formally  laid  down  their  arms,  and  recognized  the  Protec- 
torate Government.   A  general  amnesty  (without  exception) 
was    declared  ;    all   offences    were  declared    forgiven,   and 
the   people   directed   to   return  quietly  to  their  respective 
districts.' 


SUBMISSION  OF  QUEEN  POMARE  325 

Pomare  now  had  no  alternative  but  submission.  She 
returned  to  Tahiti  in  March,  1847,  and  was  received  by 
the  French  authorities  with  every  outward  mark  of  respect. 
She  was  allowed  to  retain  the  appearance  of  power,  but 
deprived  of  all  its  substance.  Thus  ended  the  unhappy 
conflict  begun  in  1836.  In  many  ways  French  influence, 
then  and  since,  has  exerted  a  most  demoralizing  effect 
upon  the  population  of  Papeete.  But  the  solid  foundation 
of  good  Christian  work  laid  by  the  labours  of  British 
missionaries  during  the  fifty  years  has  never  been  utterly 
destroyed. 

[Authorities. — Letters  and  Reports ;  Annual  Reports;  Tahiti:  a  Review  of 
the  Origin,  Character,  and  Progress  of  French  Roman  Catholic  Efforts  for  the 
Destruction  of  English  Protestant  Missions  in  the  South  Seas,  by  Mark  Wilks 
(1844) ;  Polynesian  Reminiscences,  by  W.  T.  Pritchard  (1866).] 


CHAPTER    IX 

THE   SOCIETY   ISLANDS:    184O-1890 

From  the  period  we  have  now  reached  in  our  record 
of  Polynesian  work,  1835-1845,  the  most  useful  course  will 
be  to  complete  the  history  of  each  island  or  group.  The 
story  of  the  introduction  of  Christianity  into  new  islands 
and  the  life  and  conditions  of  the  people  have  in  every  case 
so  much  in  common  that  full  details  would  only  weary  the 
reader.  We  shall,  therefore,  dwell  at  any  length  upon  only 
important  events  and  leading  personalities,  and,  in  the  first 
place,  complete  the  century's  story  of  the  Society  Islands. 

After  the  departure  of  Howe,  Jesson,  Joseph,  Moore, 
and  Buchanan  in  1844,  as  narrated  in  the  last  chapter,  the 
working  staff  of  the  mission  consisted  of  Davies,  Darling, 
Thomson.  Johnston,  and  Smee  the  printer,  on  Tahiti ;  with 
Simpson  and  John  Barff  on  Eimeo.  Of  these  Johnston 
was  a  schoolmaster,  and  left  the  mission  in  1849,  while 
Smee  died  in  1847.  Simpson  was  dismissed  by  the 
Directors  in  1850,  and  then,  like  Orsmond,  entered  the 
French  Service,  and  became  a  source  of  difficulty  and 
distress  to  all  who  had  the  welfare  of  the  natives  at  heart. 

The  French  protectorate  and  the  appointment  of  a  dis- 
solute native  chief  named  Paraita  as  regent  in  Pomare's 
absence,  increased  the  difficulties  of  the  missionaries. 
Natives  of  disreputable  character  were  placed  in  leading 
positions  of  authority,  whilst  the  warfare  sketched  in  the 
last  chapter,  carried  on  between  the  patriotic  party  and  the 
French,  seriously  hindered  all  useful  work.  Pomare's 
tribulations  seem  to  have  been  of  benefit  to  her,  for,  after 


*  RELIGIOUS   TOLERATION  '  IN   TAHITI  327 

her  reinstatement  as  queen,  though  she  was  such  in  little 
more  than  name,  she  attended  public  worship,  Bible-classes, 
and  religious  meetings  with  assiduity. 

According  to  a  census  taken  in  1848,  the  population 
of  Tahiti  was  8,000,  and  that  of  Eimeo  i:4co,  showing  a 
proportion  of  four  males  to  three  females.  Under  the 
protectorate  the  Government  were  able  to  register  the 
schools,  chapels,  and  all  mission  buildings  as  '  national 
property  for  the  use  of  Protestants.'  They  thus  practically 
obtained  almost  absolute  control  over  them,  as  they  could 
through  the  native  governors  do  exactly  as  they  liked. 
In  1849  a  slight  modification,  favourable  to  the  Society, 
was  granted,  setting  forth  •  that  the  lands  at  present  held 
by  them  [the  missionaries]  were  given  to  them  as  agents 
of  a  particular  society.'  The  missionaries  had  to  repair 
the  property  at  their  own  expense. 

William  Howe,  who  with  Jesson  had  in  England  been 
encrai^ed  in  the  revision  of  the  Tahitian  Bible,  returned  t 


'£>"& 


0 


Tahiti  early  in  1847.  The  French  governor  had  established 
a  Legislative  Assembly  to  which  each  native  settlement 
sent  two  members,  and  in  many  ways  he  harassed  the 
missionaries  by  vexatious  restrictions.  A  letter  from 
Howe,  dated  March  13,  1848,  shows  us  how  French 
authorities  interpret  *  full  religious  toleration  ': — 

'  Having  registered  the  lands  as  national  property,  the 
governor  passed  a  law,  or  rather  tried  to  do  so,  that  the 
people  should  keep  the  schools,  chapels,  and  missionary 
premises  in  repair.  To  the  two  first  they  consented,  but. 
out  of  eighty  delegates,  there  were  only  seven  in  favour 
of  his  motion  ;  those  who  spoke  said  that  we  had  got 
enough  out  of  them  already!  These  things  are  excessively 
painful  to  hear,  but  we  are  not  taken  by  surprise ;  they  are 
what  we  have  expected  from  the  beginning,  from  our  know- 
ledge of  the  character  of  the  people.  We  knew  that  if  the\' 
were  ultimately  subdued,  they  would,  as  a  body,  fawn  upon 
their  conquerors,  and  take  almost  whatever  course  might 
appear  likely  to  please.  It  is  at  the  same  time  gratifying 
to  know,  that   there  is  no  appearance  of   favour    towards 


328  THE  SOCIETY  ISLANDS:    1S40-1S90 

Popery.  The  people  appear  to  be  taken  with  the  mode 
of  registration,  as  it  specifically  states  "for  Protestant 
worship";  but  then,  unhappily,  the  same  authority  which 
makes  it  so,  can  make  it  anything  else  at  a  future  period, 
and  the  interference  of  a  foreign  power  cannot  prevent  it. 

'You  will  perceive  that  our  position  is  trying  in  the 
extreme,  and  what  will  be  the  end  it  is  not  difficult  to 
foresee,  unless  some  political  changes  in  Europe  should 
alter  the  state  of  things  here.  In  the  mean  time,  it  will 
be  our  duty,  by  every  wise  and  conciliatory  measure  that 
can  be  consistently  adopted,  to  keep  our  position  as  long 
as  possible.  The  governor  comforted  the  delegates  in  the 
assembly  the  other  day  with  the  assertion,  that  our  places 
would  be  entirely  supplied  by  French  Protestants  in  eight 
or  ten  years  at  the  farthest.  He  asked  me  at  his  table  the 
other  day,  "  how  long  I  thought  I  should  remain  in  the 
island,"  and  I  replied,  "  Until  I  am  ninety  years  of  age, 
your  Excellency  ;  I  am  expecting  to  live  to  be  a  very  old 
man,  and  I  intend  to  spend  all  my  days  here." 

'  The  people  are  beginning  already  to  act  in  spiritual 
matters  without  our  advice,  in  appointing  native  teachers 
to  the  out-stations,  which  has  hitherto  always  been  done 
by  us.  We  shall,  however,  use  our  utmost  influence  to 
keep  these  stations  under  our  care  by  frequent  visitation, 
and  in  every  way  we  can  shall  continue  to  show  the  people 
that  we  have  their  interests  still  at  heart,  notwithstanding 
the  course  which  they  are  at  present  pursuing. 

'  The  laws  against  adultery  and  fornication  are  very 
severe,  but  unhappily  they  have  a  common  outlet  at  the 
end  of  them  for  these  vices  which  will  render  the  practice, 
we  fear,  a  thousand  times  worse  than  it  was  ;  formerly, 
there  was  at  least  general  secrecy,  but  now,  the  abandoned 
to  these  vices  are  to  live  apart  in  licensed  houses  ! !  The 
first-fruits  of  this  awful  system  I  had  the  mortification  of 
witnessing  yesterday  afternoon,  Sunday,  on  my  way  home 
from  Point  Venus  and  Papoa.  At  a  house  about  a  mile 
and  a  half  out  of  Papeete  I  counted  not  fewer  than  sixteen 
young  women,  some  of  whom   tried    to  hide   their   faces 


THOMSON  AND  HOWE  329 

as  I  passed,  that  I  might  not  know  them.  This  sight  was 
most  heart-rending,  and  very  discouraging ;  every  one 
of  these  victims  had  been  taught  in  our  schools,  but  are 
now  being  trained  in  another  way,  which  must  lead  to 
a  premature  grave,  and  perhaps,  to  many,  to  endless 
misery  ! ' 

Not  long  after  Howe's  return  very  serious  disagreements 
arose  among  the  brethren.  Howe  seems  to  have  been 
furnished  with  special  instructions  from  the  Directors, 
constituting  him  superintendent  of  the  mission.  He  was 
consequently  looked  upon  with  some  amount  of  jealousy 
by  most  of  his  colleagues,  over  whom  he  seems  to 
have  been  placed  as  superintendent.  He  had  been 
instructed  by  the  Directors  to  take  Thomson's  place  at 
Papeete,  and  to  move  Thomson  to  Tautira.  Thomson, 
who  had  been  at  Papeete  for  some  four  years,  and  had 
managed  affairs  with  much  prudence  and  tact  after  the 
four  brethren  left  the  island  in  1844,  not  unnaturally 
resented  this  proposed  alteration,  and  declined  to  submit 
to  the  wishes  of  the  Directors.  He  was  supported  in  his 
opposition  by  the  queen  and  many  of  the  people.  At 
length,  in  May,  1849,  the  committee  prohibited  Thomson 
from  attending  their  meetings.  After  reading  the  corre- 
spondence on  both  sides  there  seems  little  reason  for 
doubt  that  the  Directors  had  in  this  instance  treated 
a  most  able  and  deserving  missionary  with  great  injustice. 
Howe  was  a  good  and  able  man,  but  he  had  undoubtedly 
laid  himself  open  to  the  charge  of  running  away  from 
his  work  on  the  eve  of  difficulty  and  danger.  Thomson 
stayed,  and  did  his  work  well,  and  even  laid  the  founda- 
tion of  a  fatal  illness  by  doing  all  in  his  power  for  the 
natives  while  Howe  was  comfortably  and  safely  in  England. 
Dr.  Tidman,  the  Foreign  Secretary  of  that  time,  was  very 
autocratic  in  his  rule.  Thomson's  letters,  which  are  amon^ 
the  very  ablest  in  the  Society's  archives,  are  clear,  possess  the 
ring  of  honesty,  but  are  very  frank  and  outspoken.  Tid- 
man seems  to  have  misunderstood  Thomson,  and  the  whole 
incident  is  a  glaring  example  of  how  a  board  of  directors 


330  THE  SOCIETY  ISLANDS  :    1840-1890 

may  be  led  into  actions  of  great  unfairness  by  the  inability 
or  the  unwillingness  of  home  authorities  to  grasp  the 
correct  bearings  of  matters  in  dispute  between  good  men. 
The  controversy  seriously  hindered  the  work.  Thomson 
retained  control  of  the  church  at  Papeete  until  the  close 
of  1850,  when,  for  the  benefit  of  his  health,  which  had 
seriously  failed,  he  sailed  for  Melbourne,  and  died  at  sea, 
Jan.  J,  1851.  Death  ended  his  difficulties,  but  the  closing 
days  of  a  very  able  worker  had  been  clouded,  and  the  ill 
effects  of  the  unfortunate  action  of  his  colleagues  and  of 
the  home  authorities  lived  on ;  for  no  London  Missionary 
Society's  agent  ever  after  obtained  the  position  of  pastor 
of  the  native  church  at  Papeete. 

In  1847  the  mission  had  been  reinforced  by  the  transfer 
of  Alexander  Chisholm  from  Savaii  to  Tahiti.  His  letters 
during  1849  and  1850  also  bear  witness  to  the  difficulties 
caused  by  the  French.  Howe  was  stationed  at  Papeete, 
where  he  preached  regularly  in  English  in  the  Bethel 
chapel,  and  superintended  the  printing-press,  and  also  the 
institution  for  training  native  teachers.  This  last  had  been 
part  of  John  Barff''s  work  on  Eimeo,  but  on  Howe's  return, 
in  1847,  he  resumed  his  teaching  duties.  Howe  visited  the 
native  churches  in  various  parts  of  Tahiti,  preaching  in 
them  as  often  as  French  restrictions  would  allow.  A  large 
portion  of  his  time  was  given  to  the  press,  the  Religious 
Tract  Society  liberally  aiding  him  with  grants  of  paper,  of 
publications,  and  occasionally  by  printing  editions  of  books 
in  England. 

In  1851  Howe  was  prosecuted  for  alleged  seditious 
language  in  the  pulpit,  when  protesting  against  the  violation 
of  the  Sabbath  by  the  celebration  of  the  Emperor's  Fete 
Day.  This  was  celebrated  in  such  a  way  as  to  lead  to 
a  large  amount  of  drunkenness  and  debauchery.  In  the 
end  Howe  was  pronounced  entirely  innocent  of  the  charge 
brought  against  him. 

In  the  same  year  two  laws  were  passed  which  caused  the 
mission  further  anxiety  and  difficulty: — (1)  A  law  making 
missionaries'    houses    public    property.       Appeal    to    the 


FRENCH  LEGISLATIVE  RESTRICTIONS         33T 

Assembly  was  proved  to  be  useless  by  the  fact  that  the 
petition  setting  forth  the  injustice  of  this  action  was  torn 
in  pieces  before  the  faces  of  those  who  represented  the 
mission.  (2)  A  law  ordaining  that  there  shall  be  but 
one  minister  in  one  district,  and  that  no  minister  shall  visit 
other  districts  without  an  invitation  in  writing.  This  law 
practically  put  an  end  to  all  useful  itinerating  work. 

Besides  being  hampered  and  crippled  by  these  and  other 
vexatious  restrictions,  further  anxieties  for  the  cause  of  true 
religion  were  produced  by  Orsmond,  who  was  now  Govern- 
ment pastor  at  Papeete,  head  of  a  seminary  for  training 
native  teachers,  and  head  of  the  native  police,  beginning 
to  ordain  and  appoint  over  churches  native  students  who 
had  received  but  a  few  months  of  absolutely  useless  training. 

Early  in  1852  the  John  Williams  reached  Tahiti,  bringing 
back  Mr.  Darling,  and  landing  two  new  missionaries, 
Mr.  Lind  and  Mr.  Spencer.  This  at  once  led  to  further 
trouble.  For  in  March,  1852,  Mr.  Chisholm  was  charged 
with  seditious  conduct  in  trying  to  get  a  Government  pastor 
replaced  at  Papeuriri  by  one  of  these  two  new  missionaries. 
This,  it  was  affirmed,  was  a  violation  of  law  No.  2,  passed 
in  1 851.  He  was  condemned  to  be  confined  within  his  own 
district  of  Papara  for  six  months.  His  defence  was  that  he 
had  gone  to  preach  at  the  invitation  of  the  people,  and 
understood  that  the  '  so-called  Government  pastor '  was 
only  a  school-teacher.  He  had  no  intention  of  infringing 
the  new  law.  His  defence  was  scouted  by  the  governor, 
and  though  the  British  Consul  exerted  all  his  influence, 
both  in  Tahiti  and  England,  nothing  was  done. 

In  March,  1852,  the  work  of  the  mission  received  the 
most  severe  blow  which  had  been  inflicted  since  the  French 
first  began  to  interfere  in  Tahitian  affairs.  This  was  due 
to  the  passing  of  a  law  which  deprived  the  churches  of  the 
power  to  elect  their  ovvn  pastors,  handing  over  this  power 
to  the  district,  subject  to  the  confirmation  of  the  Legis- 
lative Assembly.     The  law  was  worded  as  follows : — 

'  These  are  the  officers  to  be  chosen  by  the  chiefs 
(hui  raaiira)  in  the  Protectorate  Government:  the  district 


332  THE  SOCIETY  ISLANDS  :    1S40-1S90 

governors,  the  district  minister  of  religion,  and  the  members 
of  Parliament, 

*  The  whole  of  the  chiefs  {/tin  raatird)  in  a  district  shall 
have  a  right  to  vote  in  these  elections. 

'  Any  one  may  be  elected  to  the  office  of  district  minister 
who  may  be  agreeable  to  the  electors,  and  approved  of  by 
the  majority.  If  a  foreigner  be  chosen,  the  election  must 
be  submitted  to  the  governor,  the  Commissioner  of  the 
Republic,  for  his  approval,  because  the  foreign  department 
is  with  him.' 

Barff  and  Chisholm,  being  requested,  in  accordance  with 
this  new  enactment,  to  acknowledge  in  writing  the  sanction 
of  the  Government  for  the  appointments  they  held,  resigned 
their  districts.  They  held  that  to  do  so  would  be  to  turn 
their  back  upon  the  '  fundamental  principle '  of  the  Society, 
and  to  sink  from  free  pastors  of  free  churches  into  mere 
servants  of  the  Government,  and  of  the  worst  section  of  the 
natives.  The  Directors  at  first  appear  to  have  doubted 
the  expediency  of  this  step,  but  ultimately  gave  it  their 
approval.  That  they  were  not  inflexible  in  their  view 
upon  the  subject  is  evident  from  the  fact  that  sanction  was 
also  given  to  Darling  to  retain  his  post  at  Bunaauia  under 
the  altered  conditions.  His  salary  was  continued,  and  he 
remained  in  active  service  until  the  death  of  his  wife,  in 
1858,  when  he,  in  March,  1859,  retired  to  New  South  Wales 
on  a  pension  of  £iQQ^  after  he  had  spent  forty-two  years  of 
active  service. 

Judged  in  the  light  of  expediency,  and  of  after-results, 
as  well  as  from  the  comparatively  successful  four  or 
five  years  spent  by  Darling  at  his  old  church,  the 
resignation  of  Chisholm  and  Barff,  and  the  departure  of 
Spencer  and  Lind  from  the  island  in  September,  1852,  was 
a  decidedly  unwise  step.  Chisholm  and  Barff  went  to  the 
Leeward  Islands  ;  Lind  to  Rurutu  ;  and  Spencer  returned 
to  England.  Had  these  men  remained  at  their  post  their 
influence  would  have  been  powerful  in  resisting  the  progress 
of  Romanism,  and  in  restraining  the  arbitrary  power  of  the 
governor.     They  possessed  fully  the  confidence  and  affec- 


HOWE'S   WORK  AT  PAPEETE 


333 


tion  of  the  best  natives  in  the  various  churches ;  as  long  as 
this  was  the  case,  they  were  not  at  all  likely  to  be  molested 
by  the  Government.  But  Howe,  Chisholm,  and  Barfif — 
especially  the  first — were  very  strong  in  their  anti-State- 
Church  principles  ;  and  it  is  very  evident  that  they  were 
in  a  hard  strait.  Still  the  careful  observer  of  the  effect  of 
the  removals,  both  in  1844  and  1852,  especially  in  the  light 
of  the  after  history,  finds  himself  driven  to  believe  that 
they  were  both  great  blunders. 

Howe,  whose  position  at  Papeete  was  unaffected  by  the 
new  law,  was  left  there  alone,  with  only  rare  opportunities 
of  preaching,  except  at  the  Bethel  chapel.  He,  therefore, 
proceeded  with  the  revision  of  the  Bible,  and  worked  hard 
in  utilizing  the  power  of  the  printing-press  in  counteracting 
Romanism,  and  for  the  assistance  of  native  pastors.  He 
brought  out,  in  March,  1853,  the  Tatara  raa,  or  'Answer 
to  the  Romish  Catechism,'  and  sent  it  broadcast  amongst 
native  pastors  and  their  people.  Among  other  works  which 
he  prepared  and  printed  were  volumes  of  outlines  of  sermons 
for  native  preachers,  Expositions  of  the  Gospels,  Philippians, 
Romans,  Psalms,  and  of  other  parts  of  Scripture,  and 
Almanacs  with  passages  of  Scripture,  and  official  informa- 
tion. In  the  preparation  of  some  of  these  books  he  was 
assisted  by  the  missionaries  in  the  Leeward  Islands. 

On  finding  that  the  French  Primer,  which  was  about  to 
be  taught  in  the  schools,  contained  all  the  dogmas  of 
Popery,  Howe  decided  to  translate  into  French  the  two  first 
class-books  which  were  introduced  by  the  missionaries. 
The  governor  approved  of  the  idea,  provided  the  paper, 
and  ordered  a  large  number  of  copies  to  be  struck  off  and 
distributed.  Howe  was  also  partly  occupied  in  selling 
Bibles,  hymn-books,  and  other  publications. 

When  the  Tatara  raa  had  been  in  circulation  more  than 
two  years,  the  Romanist  bishop  brought  an  action,  or, 
apparently,  three  actions,  against  Howe  for  using  the 
printing-press  for  the  purpose  of  attacking  the  Catholic 
Church.  This  litigation,  commencing  at  the  end  of  1855, 
did  not  end  till  May,  1 856  ;  and  the  labour  and  anxiety 


334  ^^^  SOCIETY  ISLANDS:    1S40-1S90 

which  the  preparation  for  the  trials  involved  laid  the 
foundation  of  Howe's  illness,  which  at  last  proved  fatal. 
The  ability  with  which  he  conducted  his  case  was  remark- 
able. Although  the  courts  decided  in  Howe's  favour,  yet, 
after  the  trials,  the  question  of  the  Tatara  raa  was,  with 
Howe's  consent,  submitted  to  arbitration.  The  final 
decision  on  this  point  was  against  Howe  ;  Tatara  raa 
was  condemned,  and  the  people  were  ordered  to  bring  in 
their  copies. 

Howe  finished  his  revision  of  the  Tahitian  Bible  on 
June  lo,  1858,  after  two  years'  work.  It  was  then 
examined  by  Barff  and  Chisholm.  In  i860,  Chisholm 
took  the  revision  to  England  and  also  a  revised  hymn- 
book.  In  1864  the  new  edition  arrived  at  Tahiti,  with 
the  addition  of  marginal  references.  But  before  its  arrival 
Howe  had  left  Tahiti,  and  he  died  at  Rarotonga  in  June, 
1864. 

Howe's  liberty  to  preach  in  the  districts  varied  with  the 
policy  or  whims  of  successive  governors.  He  was  allowed 
to  go  once  a  month  to  Darling's  church  during  the  latter's 
absence  in  England,  and  was  also  allowed  to  preach  at 
other  places  on  receiving  a  written  invitation  from  pastor 
and  deacons,  which  invitation  had  to  be  sanctioned  by  the 
governor.  Later,  one  of  the  governors,  finding  Howe 
was  receiving  many  invitations,  withdrew  his  sanction, 
allowing  him  to  visit  a  few  of  the  churches  only  about 
once  a  year.  In  the  time  of  Morris,  who  followed  Howe, 
the  Government  became  more  tolerant  ;  and  at  the  end 
of  1865  Morris  was  permitted  to  accept  all  invitations  to 
preach  without  the  necessity  of  receiving  the  governor's 
sanction.  By  1867  few  restrictions  remained,  and  *  the 
whole  of  the  field  was  open  to  the  missionaries.' 

The  churches  seem  to  have  been  considerably  less 
affected  by  Romanism  than  was  anticipated.  The  priests, 
seeing  they  made  so  slight  an  impression  on  adults, 
directed  their  efforts  chiefly  to  the  education  of  children. 
The  native  pastorate,  for  the  most  part,  remained  faithful  ; 
and  doubtless  the  value  and  influence  of  their  ministrations 


SLOIV  PROGRESS   OF  ROMANISM  335 

were  owing  very  largely  to  the  '  helps  '  in  the  shape  of 
outlines  of  sermons  issued  by  Howe  from  the  mission 
press.  In  spite  of  Romish  aggression,  of  the  absence  of 
missionaries,  of  the  immoral  example  of  the  French  ^,  as 
well  as  of  the  decrease  of  population  (about  1,000)  owing 
to  epidemics,  the  number  of  church  members  in  i860  in 
Tahiti  and  Eimeo  was  upwards  of  600  more  than  in  1842, 
before  the  Protectorate  was  established.  In  1842  it  had 
been  estimated  that  there  were  1,680  church  members,  and 
in  J  860  these  had  increased  to  2.300. 

Queen  Pomare  IV  remained  faithful  to  Protestantism, 
and  appealed  more  than  once  to  the  home  Government 
that  French  Protestant  pastors  should  be  sent  out,  seeing 
that  she  was  deprived  of  the  services  of  London  Missionary 
Society's  agents.  At  length,  in  July,  1862,  the  answer 
came,  to  the  effect  that  the  Government  would  not  hinder 
the  settlement  of  such  ministers.  In  March,  1863,  the 
arrival  of  M,  Arbousset,  followed  soon  after  by  Atger,  his 
son-in-law,  gave  great  satisfaction  to  the  queen  and  natives. 
Arbousset  became  the  queen's  chaplain,  and  endeavoured 
in  various  ways  to  fulfil  the  object  of  his  mission.  This 
French  Protestant  mission  did  not  progress  rapidly  at  first. 
The  arrangements  and  management  were  faulty,  and  the 
local  laws  and  usages  were  not  sufficiently  considered. 
Arbousset  vi.sited  London  in  1866  to  solicit  contributions. 

The  queen's  moral  character  during  these  twelve  years 
compares  favourably  with  that  of  some  previous  periods. 
There  were  one  or  two  outbreaks  of  drunkenness  ;  and 
after  one  of  these  occurrences  she  herself  wrote  asking 
to  be  excluded  from  the  church  on  the  above  ground. 

Davies,  who,  though  not  one  of  the  DufT  company, 
had  reached  Tahiti  in  the  Royal  Admiral  in  1801,  and 
had   spent   fifty-four  years   in   the  work,   died   at  Papara, 

^  Frequently  the  governor  and  the  chief  officials,  when  on  their  official 
visitation  and  duties,  would  select  the  most  intelligent  girls,  often  the  children 
of  Christian  parents,  as  their  companions  in  debauchery,  and  in  this  way  so 
much  harm  was  done  that  at  one  time  marriage  among  the  natives  almost 
ceased.  At  the  same  time  it  is  only  fair  to  admit  that  other  Kuioptans  acted 
in  the  same  disgraceful  manner. 


336  THE  SOCIETY  ISLANDS  :    1S40-1890 

August  19,  1855.  In  his  last  days  he  used  to  be  carried, 
blind  and  lame,  into  the  chapel,  over  which  a  native  pastor 
had  been  appointed  to  preside,  and  '  encouraged  and  ex- 
horted the  brethren.'  The  valuable  services  he  had  been 
enabled  to  render  the  mission  have  been  chronicled  in  the 
previous  chapters. 

During  the  time  Morris  was  in  sole  charge,  1 863-1 868, 
the  Directors  appear  to  have  attempted  little  or  nothing 
to  secure,  through  the  medium  of  the  British  Government, 
a  more  equitable  management  of  affairs  in  Tahiti.  The 
feeling  was  strong  at  home  that  all  hope  of  really  useful 
work  in  the  island  was  over.  This  was  reinforced  by  the 
view  that  there  were  still  multitudes  of  islands  in  the 
Pacific  to  which  the  '  glad  tidings '  had  never  yet  been  sent, 
and  that  these  had  a  prior  claim  now  upon  the  zeal  and  the 
funds  of  the  Society.  But  the  complete  severance  did  not 
come  for  many  years. 

On  the  removal  of  Mr.  George  Morris  from  the  island 
in  1868,  he  was  succeeded  by  Mr.  J.  L.  Green,  who  had 
been  resident  missionary  for  some  years  at  Tahaa.  The 
letters  of  this  period  possess  little  general  interest,  and  deal 
mainly  with  financial  matters  and  suggestions  to  the 
Directors  as  to  carrying  on  the  work.  Harassing  restric- 
tions on  Mr.  Greenes  ministerial  labours  were  occasionally 
relaxed,  and  he  was  enabled  in  various  ways,  in  co-operation 
with  the  French  Protestant  missionaries,  to  extend  and 
strengthen  the  cause  of  religion.  In  1872  he  obtained  the 
consent  of  the  Government  to  conduct  a  preacher's  class,  and 
the  same  year  he  co-operated  with  the  French  missionaries 
in  establishing  a  Union  of  the  churches,  for  consultation 
and  for  discipline.  There  was  a  distinct  need  for  a  move- 
ment of  this  kind,  owing  to  the  loose  way  in  which  some 
of  the  churches  were  conducted,  and  the  drunkenness  and 
other  misconduct  of  some  of  the  pastors.  In  1876  the 
Government  interfered  with  the  work  of  the  Synod,  and 
forbade  the  circulation  of  a  code  ot  regulations  respecting 
discipline. 

Mr.    Green    was   very   anxious    to    establish    a    Normal 


DEATH  OF  QUEEN  POM  ARE  337 

School,  in  order  to  compete  with  the  educational  efforts 
of  the  Romanists.  Such  a  school  was  ultimately  established 
in  November,  1874,  by  the  French  Protestants,  aided  by  a 
grant  from  the  London  Missionary  Society,  and  with  the 
understanding  that  Mr.  Green  should  be  consulted  as  to  the 
general  arrangements  and  carrying  on  of  the  school. 

Mr.  Green  continued  to  sell  a  large  number  of  Bibles, 
and  for  several  years  he  was  able  to  remit  to  the  Bible 
Society  over  £220  a  year.  Even  the  Romanist  bishop 
and  priests  were  occasional  purchasers  of  Testaments.  It 
was  not  until  1889  that  any  Romanist  version  of  the 
Scriptures  existed  in  Tahitian,  and  then  only  the  New 
Testament,  which  was  printed  at  Nantes  and  w^hich  began 
to  circulate  in  Tahiti  at  the  end  of  1889  or  the  beginning 
of  1890.  With  the  aid  of  the  Leeward  Islands  brethren, 
Mr.  Green  completed  a  further  revision  of  the  Tahitian 
Bible  which  was  printed  under  his  supervision,  and  issued 
in  1884.    In  that  year  about  4,000  copies  were  sold  by  him. 

In  1877  Queen  Pomare  died.  She  was  born  in  1808, 
when  Tahiti  was  still  in  heathen  darkness.  In  1827,  on 
the  death  of  her  brother,  she  ascended  the  throne.  She 
was  twice  married  — once  at  the  age  of  fourteen,  in  1822; 
and  again  a  few  years  later.  But  neither  marriage  w^as 
happy  or  prosperous.  She  resented  strongly  and  felt  very 
keenly  the  high-handed  action  of  France.  Compelled 
to  submit,  she  wisely  made  the  best  of  affairs  which  she 
could  not  mend,  and  the  trials  and  sufferings  of  her  middle 
life  greatly  purified  and  strengthened  her  character.  The 
whole  weight  of  her  influence  in  later  years  was  thrown 
on  the  side  of  the  Bible  and  of  Christianity.  She  was 
always  friendly  to  the  missionaries,  and  up  to  the  measure 
of  her  light  and  opportunity  she  exerted  herself,  especially 
in  her  later  years,  for  the  well-being  in  all  respects  of  her 
subjects.  Her  son,  Ariiaue,  succeeded  her  under  the  title 
of  Pomare  V. 

A  few  years  later,  in  1886,  the  Directors  decided  finally  to 
relinquish  work  in  Tahiti.  The  reasons  which  led  them  to 
this  step  are  fully  set  forth  in  the  minute  then  adopted : — 

I.  z 


338  THE   SOCIETY  ISLANDS:    1S40-1S90 

'  The  Directors,  having  very  carefully  considered  the 
claims  of  Tahiti  on  the  sympathy  and  help  of  the  Society, 
are  led  to  the  conclusion  that  it  is  no  longer  necessary  or 
desirable  to  maintain  a  European  missionary  in  that  island. 
There  are,  without  doubt,  many  reasons  which  point  to  the 
advisability  of  continuing  the  connexion  between  the  Society 
and  Tahiti  by  means  of  a  resident  missionary.  The  Society's 
missionary  at  Tahiti  has  been  for  years  the  minister  of  the 
small  English-speaking  congregation  worshipping  in  the 
Bethel  at  that  place.  He  has  been  a  counsellor  and  friend 
to  the  native  churches  and  their  pastors  in  many  times  of 
difficulty,  and  has  been  enabled  materially  to  assist  them 
by  the  sale  of  the  Scriptures  and  other  religious  publications, 
and  also  by  conducting  Bible  classes  for  the  benefit  of  all 
who  were  disposed  to  avail  themselves  of  his  services  in 
this  direction.  It  is  also  undoubtedly  a  great  convenience 
to  the  missionaries  in  the  Leeward  Islands  to  have  a  friend 
at  Tahiti  who  may  act  as  their  agent  in  the  transport  of 
goods  and  letters,  and  upon  whom  they  can  fall  back  for 
assistance  in  the  hour  of  special  need.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  Directors  cannot  ignore  the  fact  that  since  the  French 
occupation  of  Tahiti  the  English  missionary  has  had  no 
official  status  in  the  island  as  a  missionary  ;  that  the  native 
churches  are  under  the  control  of  the  French  Government, 
and  are  subsidized  with  money  grants  by  that  Government, 
and  are  directed  and  superintended  by  a  French  Protestant 
missionary  appointed  by  that  Government.  The  education 
of  the  island  is  entirely  conducted  in  the  French  language, 
and  under  the  supervision  of  the  officials  of  the  French 
Republic;  and,  finally,  the  Paris  Evangelical  Missionary 
Society  have  now  no  fewer  than  three  devoted  and  able 
missionaries,  who,  with  the  sanction  and  aid  of  the  French 
Government,  represent  French  Protestantism  in  Tahiti.  It 
is  with  feelings  of  peculiar  regret  that  the  Directors  contem- 
plate the  severance  of  the  Society's  connexion  with  the 
earliest  of  its  mission  stations,  and  one  which,  during  the 
Jong  years  of  its  history,  has  passed  through  so  many 
eventful  and  remarkable  experiences.     They  feel;  however, 


THE   WORK  RELINQUISHED  339 

that  while  these  sentiments  must  ever  lead  the  Society  to 
look  with  great  sympathy  and  interest  upon  the  progress  of 
Christian  work  in  the  island  of  Tahiti,  they  do  not  justify 
the  continuance  of  the  mission  in  an  island  which  is 
Christianized,  and  in  which  the  Christian  work  which  the 
Society  has  at  heart  is  being  efficiently  carried  on  by  the 
representatives  of  a  kindred  society  belonging  to  the  nation 
which  rules  the  island.  In  the  face,  therefore,  of  the 
numerous  and  pressing  demands  made  upon  the  Society's 
power  to  help  in  islands  and  districts  as  yet  un-Christianized, 
the  path  of  duty  seems  clear.' 

This  decision  closed  a  chapter  in  the  Society's  history 
which  must  ever  remain  among  its  most  cherished  pos- 
sessions. Nothing  exactly  like  it  is  to  be  found  in  any 
other  portion  of  the  century's  story.  The  wonderful  burst 
of  enthusiasm  out  of  which  the  mission  sprang,  the 
courageous  perseverance  with  which  those  who  remained 
faithful  laboured  through  '  the  night  of  toil'  the  marvellous 
and  dramatic  conversion  of  the  island,  the  way  in  which 
it  became  'a  city  set  on  a  hill '  to  the  whole  of  Polynesia, 
the  many  lessons  learned  there  in  the  hard  school  of 
experience,  and  turned  to  good  account  in  many  other 
portions  of  the  great  harvest  field  of  the  world — all  give 
Tahiti  an  abiding  place  in  the  affection  and  the  memory. 
If  the  hopeful  dawn  has  not  been  followed  yet  by  the 
brightest  day,  this  is  but  the  common  experience  of  life. 
If  the  native  church  has  not  yet  reached  self-containment 
and  self-dependence,  this  may  be  partly  because  we  have 
been  too  impatient  of  results,  and  partly  because,  while 
civilization  has  blessed,  it  has  also  cursed  the  island.  But 
the  old  superstitions  are  gone,  and  the  old  savagery  has 
departed  for  ever.  The  hand  of  Christ  has  been  laid  upon 
that  people.  The  faith  and  zeal  and  self-sacrifice  of 
Jefferson  and  Nott,  of  Bicknell  and  Davies,  of  Thomson 
and  Howe  can  never  be  lost.  The  island  of  so  much 
consecrated  toil  and  so  many  fervent  prayers  shall  yet 
become  the  garden  of  the  Lord. 

Turning   now  to   the  Leeward    section  of  the  Society 

Z  2 


340  THE  SOCIETY  ISLANDS :    1S40-1S90      . 

Islands,  comprising  Huahine,  Raiatea,  Borabora,  Tahaa, 
and  Maupiti,  we  find  that  their  history  during  this  period 
runs  parallel  to  that  of  Tahiti.  When  John  Williams  in 
1834  returned  to  England,  he  left  behind  him  two  very 
able  colleagues,  Charles  Barffat  Huahine,  and  George  Piatt 
at  Borabora.  Mr.  Loxton,  appointed  to  take  Williams' 
place  during  his  absence,  reached  Raiatea  in  March,  1834, 
but  died  there  July  28  of  the  same  year,  while  James  Smith, 
appointed  to  Tahaa,  reached  Raiatea  in  1831,  and  went  to 
Tahaa  in  January,  1833.  After  a  very  short  stay  there  he 
relinquished  work,  and  ceased  to  have  any  further  con- 
nection with  the  Society. 

Meanwhile  drunkenness,  war,  and  fanaticism,  which  had 
wrought  so  much  mischief  at  Tahiti,  greatly  hindered 
progress  in  the  Leeward  Islands.  Antinomianism  was 
not  uncommon.  In  1835  a  Temperance  Society  was 
formed  in  Borabora,  and  in  Huahine  the  use  of  drink  was 
abolished  by  law.  Meanwhile  in  England,  John  Williams, 
by  his  strong  personality,  his  powerful  speaking,  and  the 
marvellous  story  he  had  to  tell  of  the  rapid  introduction 
of  Christianity  into  so  many  islands  of  the  Hervey  and 
Samoan  groups,  aroused  an  Immense  renewal  of  interest 
in  and  enthusiasm  for  Polynesian  Missions.  This  was 
deepened  by  the  publication  in  1837  of  his  great  book, 
A  NarraUve  of  Missionary  Enterprises  in  the  South  Sea 
Islafids.  Towards  the  end  of  his  nearly  four  years'  stay  in 
England,  the  great  desire  of  his  heart  was  accomplished. 
By  public  subscription  ^4,000  was  raised  for  the  purchase 
and  fitting  out  of  the  first  well-equipped  and  satisfactory 
mission  ship,  called  the  Camden.  In  this  vessel,  on 
April  II,  1838,  he  sailed  on  his  return  voyage  to  Polynesia, 
accompanied  by  a  band  of  new  missionary  workers  for  the 
different  groups.  Of  these  only  one  reinforced  the  workers 
in  the  Leeward  Islands,  George  Charter,  who  reached 
Huahine  in  March,  1839.  He  began  work  on  Tahaa,  but 
finding  it  impossible,  owing  to  the  indolence  of  the  natives, 
to  carry  on  his  proper  work  as  a  schoolmaster,  he  removed 
to  Raiatea.     His  letters  home  arc  not  pleasant  reading. 


TROUBLES  IN   THE  LEEWARD   GROUP        341 

He  and  the  others  who  had  embarked  on  the  Camden 
had  given  themselves  to  the  work  under  the  enthusiasm 
generated  by  Williams,  and  by  the  wondrous  pictures  he 
drew  of  victories  achieved  and  victories  yet  to  be  won. 
The  new  workers  whose  lot  fell  in  Samoa  and  in  the 
Hervey  group  found  that  facts  and  their  preconceived 
ideas  agreed  fairly  well.  But  those  who  went  to  the 
Society  Islands,  for  reasons  with  which  the  reader  is  well 
acquainted,  found  the  condition  of  affairs  widely  different 
from  their  anticipations  and  desires.  The  consequence 
was  that  several  of  the  new  workers  soon  became  very 
bitter  against  Williams,  and  seem  to  have  persuaded 
themselves  that  he  had  intentionally  deceived  them. 
Charter  affirms  that  the  accounts  of  work  in  the  islands 
had  been  highly  overcoloured.  Piatt  in  April,  1 840,  writes 
that  the  younger  workers  are  sadly  disheartened  by  the 
contrast  between  London  descriptions  and  Polynesian 
reality.  '  You  make  them  believe,'  he  says  to  the  Directors, 
'  they  are  going  to  heaven  ;  and  when  they  arrive,  instead 
of  heaven,  they  find  black  men  and  fiends  and  barbarized 
missionaries,  and  even  the  devil  himself  not  cast  out.'  '  It 
is  very  strange,'  the  same  veteran  writes  a  year  later, 
January  9, 1841, '  that  our  younger  brethren  should  manifest 
such  an  antipathy  to  the  mission.  Their  minds  seem 
deeply  embittered,  more  especially  against  poor  Williams, 
as  having  deceived  them,  when,  alas  !  he  was  as  much 
astonished  as  any  at  the  change  of  appearances  during  his 
absence.'  The  truth  seems  to  be  that  some  of  the  men 
conveyed  by  the  Camden  to  the  Society  Islands  were 
lacking  in  stamina,  in  true  missionary  zeal,  and  in  that 
devotion  and  whole-hearted  consecration  to  the  work  which 
transmutes  disappointment  and  difficulty  into  occasions 
for  greater  self-sacrifice  and  more  persistent  toil. 

The  troubles  due  to  the  action  of  the  P>ench  at  Tahiti 
powerfully  affected  the  Leeward  group.  In  1844  Barff 
writes  that  he  thinks  the  islands  will  soon  be  occupied  by 
the  French,  unless  the  British  Government  stops  them.  In 
August,    J  844,   Queen   Pomare   took    refuge    at    Huahinc, 


342  THE   SOCIETY  ISLANDS  :    1840-1S90 

brought  thither  in  an  English  man-of-war.  Mr.  Piatt 
states  that  the  captain,  Lord  George  Paulet,  was  urged  to 
hoist  the  British  flag,  but  dedined.  Further  difficulties 
were  caused  during  1844  and  1845  by  the  arrival  of  Mor- 
mon agents  in  the  islands,  who  obtained  no  inconsider- 
able following  among  the  natives.  Early  in  1845  various 
attempts  were  made  to  hoist  the  flag  of  the  French 
Protectorate  in  the  islands,  but  these  were  all  strenuously 
resisted  by  the  natives.  The  French  policy  was  apparently 
to  speak  smooth  things  to  the  British  Government,  and  to 
do  through  their  agents  exactly  as  they  liked  in  the  islands. 
•  Lord  Aberdeen,'  writes  one  missionary,  '  is  completely 
gulled  if  he  believes  the  French  out  here  will  regard  any  of 
his  treaties.'  '  The  French  morals,'  writes  another,  ^  are 
even  more  to  be  dreaded  than  French  guns.'  In  January, 
1847,  Queen  Pomare  returned  to  Tahiti  from  Raiatea  ;  and 
on  June  19  of  the  same  year  a  treaty  had  been  signed  by 
France  and  England,  guaranteeing  the  independence  of  the 
whole  group  of  Leeward  Islands. 

This  incident  affords  another  illustration  of  the  difficulty 
experienced  by  those  at  home  in  correctly  representing 
afi"airs  at  the  different  foreign  stations,  unless  they  keep 
close  to  the  words  of  the  missionaries  themselves.  The 
2VIissio7iary  CJironicle  for  August,  1847  \  contained  articles 
on  '  The  Independence  of  the  Leeward  Islands,'  and 
'  Tahiti — Betrayal  of  the  Patriotic  Natives ' :  the  former 
asserts  that  the  Leeward  Islands  '  will  afford  to  the  natives 
of  Tahiti  a  safe  asylum  from  the  miseries  of  P'rench  de- 
spotism, or  the  corruptions  of  French  manners ' ;  the  latter 
states  '  the  involuntary  surrender  of  these  noble  and  high- 
principled  men  is  naturally  calculated  to  awaken  strong 
regret.'  That  the  officials,  in  the  light  of  the  documents 
then  in  their  possession  and  still  extant,  could  sanction 
such  statements,  is  an  illustration  of  the  practice,  not  con- 
fined to  any  one  society,  of  occasionally  issuing  statements 
of  work  and  policy  which  could  well  bear  correction  from  the 

^  Evangelical  Magazine,  1847.  P-  445- 


NATIVE  DETERIORATION  343 

correspondence  of  their  agents   abroad.      This,  it  is  quite 
needless  to  say,  is  never  done  from  design  ;  but  the  desire 
to  set  forth  only  the  best  aspect  of  affairs  is  sometimes  hardly 
less  mischievous  than  wilful  misrepresentation.    Mr.  Charter, 
in  a  letter  dated  April  21, 1848,  points  out  that  at  the  worst 
French  rule  is  much  more  just  and  far  less  oppressive  to 
the  natives  than  the  absolute  despotism  of  Queen  Pomare ; 
that  morality,  from  the  Christian  point  of  view,  both  among 
many  of  the  chiefs  and  common  people,  is  so  bad  that  no 
French   influence  could   conceivably   make  it  worse  ;   and 
that  so  far  from  the  leading  Tahitians  being  *  noble  and 
high-principled,"  all  who  knew  them  agree  '  that  deception 
and  covetousness  are   the  distinguishing  features  in  their 
character.'     He  further  states  that  the  natives  often  abuse 
the  missionaries,  calling  them  liars,  and  tracing  to  them 
the  troubles  of  their  land,  and  that  the  evil  of  publishing 
inaccurate  statements  at  home  is  that  the  French  and  all 
who  know  the  true  state  of  the  islands  think  that  the  resi- 
dent missionaries  uiust  be  responsible  for  such  statements, 
and  must  have  misinformed  the  Directors  '. 

During  1848  and  1849  a  wave  of  riotous  indulgence 
passed  over  the  islands.  Tamatoa,  on  Raiatea,  for 
a  second  time  gave  way  to  drink,  though  he  soon  after 
repented  and  was  again  received  into  church  fellowship. 
Mr.  Krause,  writing  from  Tahaa,  affirms, '  The  present  chiefs 
are  the  principal  violators  of  the  law,'  '  all  vegetables  and 
even  the  bread-fruit  are  used  for  distilling ' ;  Mr.  Rodgerson 
from  Borabora,  '  The  people  here  ought  to  be  left  for  a  time 
to  feed  on  ashes.  I  fear  that  many  of  them  are  sermon- 
proof  and  Gospel-hardened.'  In  1850  the  Queen  of 
Huahine,  charged  with  oppression,  the  work  chiefly  of  her 
young  husband,  was  sent  to  Tahiti,  and  a  regency  set  up. 
About  the  same  time  Pomare's  husband  professed  to  be 
converted,  and  was  even  being  trained  as  a  preacher. 
Mr.  Krause,  under  date  of  Oct.  23,  1850,  writes  :  'It  will 
make  a  shining  report ;  the  queen's  husband  a  preacher,  it 

^  At  the  same  time  all  Chariei'a  assertions  must  be  received  with  caution. 


344  'THE  SOCIETY  ISLANDS  :    1S40-1S90 

may  induce  a  number  of  indifferent  characters  to  join  the 
Church,  but  it  will  not  prove  a  blessing.  I  cannot  believe 
that  the  divine  blessing  can  rest  on  our  labours  while  they 
are  too  favourably  represented  at  home.  Our  friends  at 
home  sing  Hosanna  in  reading  the  reports  of  the  same, 
while  we  take  up  the  strain  with  Domine,  miserere,  when 
they  come  to  us.' 

In  1852  a  revolution  took  place  in  Huahine,  and  the 
chiefs  threw  off  allegiance  to  the  queen,  their  action  being 
accepted  by  the  powers.  In  1853  Tamatoa  on  Raiatea  was 
defeated  and  compelled  to  submit.  He  was  restored  to 
power  later,  and  died  in  1857. 

Yet,  notwithstanding  the  various  hindrances  and  dif- 
ficulties at  which  we  have  glanced,  from  1840  to  J  865 
affairs  in  the  Leeward  Islands  went  happily,  and  on  the 
whole  prosperously  forward.  This  was  due  largely  to  the 
quality  of  the  workers.  Headed  by  Barff  and  Piatt  all 
seemed  to  work  heartily  together.  Most  of  those  who 
joined  the  mission  in  later  years  were  men  of  much  better 
education  than  many  of  the  early  missionaries.  John  Barff, 
who  had  laboured  from  1844-1847  at  Eimeo,  and  then 
on  Tahiti  till  1852,  after  a  short  stay  at  Borabora  joined 
his  father  at  Huahine  in  1853.  He  visited  England  in 
1855,  and  on  his  return  in  1857  settled  at  Tahaa,  and 
carried  on  the  institution  there.  He  died  before  his 
father  in  i860,  at  the  early  age  of  forty.  All  the  con- 
temporary references  to  his  character  and  labours  prove 
that  his  early  death  was  a  grievous  loss  to  the  mission. 
From  1843  ^^  1^50  Mr.  E.  R.  W.  Krause  was  stationed  at 
Tahaa,  and  from  1851  to  1855  at  Borabora.  Alexander 
Chisholm  was  stationed  first,  in  1845,  in  Samoa  ;  in  1847 
he  went  to  Tahiti  ;  and  in  1852  to  Raiatea.  There  he 
laboured  diligently  till  i860,  when  he  returned  to  England, 
where  he  aided  in  revising  the  Tahitian  Bible,  and  died  at 
Oswestry,  May  29,  1862.  In  1863  J.  L.  Green  was 
appointed  to  Tahaa,  labouring  in  that  island  till  1868  ; 
and  George  Morris  to  Raiatea  ;  while  J.  C.  Vivian  carried 
on   the   mission  at   Raiatea  from   1863  to  1874.     Charles 


THE  NATIVE   TEACHER    TUTE  345 

Barff  retired  in  1864.  after  forty-eight  years'  service,  and 
died  at  Sydney,  June  23,  1866.  George  Piatt  visited 
England  in  1856,  returned  to  Raiatea  in  1859,  and  died 
there  April  4,  1865,  after  no  less  than  forty-nine  years 
of  service. 

As  illustrations  of  the  hopeful  and  successful  side  of 
mission  work  in  the  Pacific  at  this  period  we  print  here 
two  contemporary  documents.  One  is  a  letter  from 
Charles  Barff,  dated  Huahine,  August  i,  1859,  which, 
from  a  particular  example,  enables  us  to  see  what  a  high 
type  of  native  Christian  teachers  has  been  developed. 
Tute  has  had  many  equals  though  perhaps  few  superiors 
in  the  wide  mission  field  of  Polynesia.  A  letter  from 
his  daughter,  residing  in  Honolulu,  had  informed  Mr.  Barff 
of  his  death,  and  he  then  writes  as  follows  : — 

'  When  we  arrived  at  Moorea,  in  181 7,  Tute  was  among 
the  few  who  had  made  a  profession  of  Christianity,  and  put 
themselves  under  the  instruction  of  the  missionaries,  and 
Tute  was  one  of  the  most  diligent  and  proficient  in  know- 
ledge. He  was  a  great  favourite  with  the  king.  Pomare, 
who  called  him  his  brother.  He  had  been  adopted  by 
Pomare's  father,  Vairaatoa,  who  had  given  him  his  English 
name  (Captain  Cook)  Tute.  He  was  a  very  handsome  and 
well-formed  man,  about  six  feet  high.  When  the  mission- 
aries separated  in  1818,  he  accompanied  those  of  us  who 
came  to  Huahine,  and  was  among  the  most  diligent  in 
attending  school  and  all  the  means  of  grace.  Tute  was 
thought  to  be  a  truly  changed  character  at  this  time,  and 
was  one  of  fourteen,  who  were  selected  out  of  near  1,000 
professors  as  candidates  for  baptism,  and  were  admitted 
to  that  ordinance,  Sept.  4,  1819.  It  is  a  ground  of  sincere 
thankfulness,  that  twelve  out  of  these  fourteen  continued 
.steadfast  and  consistent  Christians,  some  at  home,  and  some 
abroad.  Four  of  them  went  forth  among  the  heathen, 
Auna,  Nurii,  Tute,  and  Hafre,  and  were  greatly  honoured 
as  instruments  of  good.  In  the  beginning  of  May,  1820, 
a  church  was  formed,  consisting  of  fourteen  native  members 
and   ourselves,  and   Tute  was  one  of  the    fourteen.     We 


346  THE  SOCIETY  ISLANDS:    1S40-1890 

united  with  them  in  commemorating  the  love  of  Christ, 
in  partaking  together  of  the  Lord's  Supper,  for  the  first 
time,  on  the  first  Sabbath  in  May,  1820.  Tute  continued 
to  adorn  his  Christian  profession  by  a  consistent  walk  and 
conversation,  and  a  diligent  attendance  on  all  the  means 
of  grace.  He  was  exceedingly  anxious  after  improvement 
in  knowledge,  reading,  writing,  arithmetic,  and  the  meaning 
of  the  Word  of  God. 

'  In  consequence  of  very  pressing  requests  from  the 
chiefs  of  the  Sandwich  Islands,  and  the  missionaries  also, 
Tute  was  chosen  by  the  church,  and  sent  to  undertake 
Christian  work  in  that  group  in  June,  1826.  The  mis- 
sionaries, chiefs,  and  native  Christians  received  him  with 
marked  kindness  and  Christian  love.  He  was  under  the 
control  of  the  missionaries,  both  as  a  teacher  in  the  schools, 
and  as  an  evangelist.  He  was  for  a  number  of  years 
chaplain  to  the  late  king,  and  accompanied  him  in  his 
voyages,  in  that  capacity,  to  other  islands. 

'  He  kept  up  a  constant  correspondence,  through  the 
missionary,  with  the  Church  of  Christ  in  Huahine.  The 
missionaries  frequently  mentioned  him  in  their  corre- 
spondence with  me,  and  gave  him  an  excellent  character 
for  piety,  diligence,  and  consistency. 

'  Tute  appears  to  have  been  a  true  convert  to  Christianity 
from  the  first,  and  his  conduct  uniformly  that  of  a  Christian, 
and  the  beneficial  influence  exerted  by  his  labours  and 
example  during  thirty-three  years  in  the  Sandwich  Islands 
can  only  be  fully  known  by  the  God  of  Missions.' 

The  other  document  is  a  letter  from  Mr.  Chisholm  to 
Dr.  Tidman,  dated  Sept.  29,  1857,  describing  a  visit  paid 
by  Mr.  Charles  Barff  and  himself  to  Rurutu  and  the 
other  islands  of  the  Austral  group.  This  letter  enables  us 
to  see  what  Polynesia  would  have  become  could  it  have 
been  preserved  from  the  vices  of  commerce  and  the  evil 
influences  of  irreligious  white  men. 

'  We  left  Raiatea  on  the  23rd,  that  is,  Mr.  Barff,  senior, 
and  I,  and  made  Rurutu  on  Saturday  evening  the  26th. 
We  did  not,  however,  get  on  shore  until  Sabbath  morning, 


THE  AUSTRAL    GROUP  IN  1857  347 

which  we  found  to  be  their  Monday  morning.  They  knew 
of  our  arrival  from  a  boat  that  came  off  to  us,  and  were  all 
assembled  on  the  beach  to  give  us  a  most  hearty  welcome. 
One  old  man  in  particular  seemed  delighted  above  measure 
to  see  Mr.  Barff  again,  and,  laying  hold  of  him,  led  him  to 
his  house  with  great  joy.  This  little  island  is  a  most  lovely 
spot,  and  they  themselves  are  the  best  specimen  of  a  Poly- 
nesian people  I  have  yet  seen.  You  cannot  help  fancying 
yourself  in  some  pretty  English  village  amidst  its  happy 
sunburnt  rustics  in  a  fine  summer's  day.  What  a  miracle 
of  mercy  that  they  should  so  w-ell  have  escaped  hitherto 
the  pollutions  of  Tahiti !  We  found  eighty-six  in  church 
fellowship,  and  admitted  twenty-four,  making  the  present 
number  no.  Sixty-two  children  were  baptized,  and  they 
presented  us  with  fifty-two  dollars  as  a  thankoffering  to  the 
Society,  besides  a  quantity  of  oil  and  arrow-root. 

'  Oct.  1st.  We  reached  Rimatara  yesterday  morning,  and 
found  comparatively  little  surf  on  the  reef,  so  as  to  admit 
of  landing  without  much  difficulty  ;  there  is  no  proper  boat 
harbour.  Rimatara  is  a  second  edition  of  Rurutu  con- 
densed and  improved  a  little.  The  principal  settlement  is 
a  little  way  inland,  the  way  to  it  leading  through  a  fine 
shady  grove.  A  Rarotongan  teacher  from  Mr.  Buzacott's 
institution  has  been  here  for  upwards  of  twelve  months, 
and  seems  to  have  been  very  useful.  With  their  consent 
we  have  now  set  him  apart  as  their  pastor.  There  are 
seventy-eight  church  members ;  we  baptized  forty-two 
children. 

'  Monday,  5th.  W^e  spent  yesterday  at  Tubuai ;  it  is 
a  larger  island  than  either  Rurutu  or  Rimatara,  but  very 
thinly  peopled.  As  it  is  now  under  the  Protectorate  flag 
we  doubted  whether  we  would  be  received.  On  going  on 
shore,  however,  we  found  the  chief  and  people  glad  to  see  us. 
There  is  no  French  officer  resident  amongst  them.  They 
have  got  tired  of  Mormonism,  and  have  all  returned  to  the 
old  fold.  We  had  about  120  hearers  and  twenty-seven 
communicants. 

'  8th.  We  are  this  evening  leaving   Raivavai,  where  wc 


348  THE  SOCIETY  ISLANDS  :    1S40-1S90 

landed  yesterday  a  little  after  noon.  The  land  is  higher 
than  the  other  islands,  and  very  picturesque,  but  there  is 
but  a  very  narrow  strip  of  available  land  between  the  sea 
and  the  mountain.  Although  but  just  outside  the  tropics, 
it  presents  a  very  different  aspect  when  compared  with  our 
intertropical  isles.  The  vegetation  is  much  more  stunted, 
and  the  people  are  not,  generally  speaking,  so  good  looking, 
although  perhaps  they  would  be  fully  as  intelligent  had 
they  equal  advantages.  They  were  very  glad  to  see  us 
indeed,  and  very  strongly  requested  that  they  might  not 
be  so  long  left  again — it  is  just  five  years  since  they  had 
a  visit  before. 

'  On  the  13th  we  landed  on  Rapa,  of  which,  if  you  have 
ever  seen  the  Orkneys,  I  suppose  you  may  form  a  very 
correct  idea — immense  masses  of  rugged  rock,  amongst 
which  you  can  fancy  vast  Gothic  cathedrals,  lofty  church 
spires,  ruined  castles  and  towers,  &c.  We  found  forty- 
eight  church  members  amongst  them,  and  admitted  twenty- 
three  others. 

'  The  population  of  the  islands  we  have  thus  visited  may 
amount  to  about  1,700,  though  from  the  shortness  of  our 
time  at  each,  and  the  many  little  things  to  be  attended  to, 
we  could  not  take  a  correct  census.  We  were  a  night  at 
each,  but  cannot  say  that  we  slept  a  night  at  each,  as  they 
all  seemed  to  think  we  might  do  very  well  without  sleep 
for  one  night,  whilst  a  constant  succession  of  questions  was 
kept  up  on  verses  and  passages  of  Scripture  which  had  been 
puzzling  them  for  many  a  long  day.  Though  comparatively 
few  in  number,  they  are  a  very  interesting  people ;  and  if 
a  cup  of  cold  water  only  given  to  a  disciple  for  Christ's 
sake  shall  not  lose  its  reward,  neither  will  the  dear  children 
of  Britain  lose  their  reward,  if,  from  love  to  the  Redeemer, 
they  continue  to  support  the  John  Williams,  as  the  means 
of  conveying  to  these  poor  islanders  from  time  to  time  the 
life-giving  streams  of  salvation.' 

From  1867  to  1880  most  of  the  churches  appear  to  have 
been  in  a  fairly  prosperous  condition,  but  from  the  latter 
date  to  the  close  of  the  mission  in  1890  they  were  in  an 


TRAINING  INSTITUTION  AT  TAHAA  349 

unsettled  state,  owing  to  the  arrival  of  the  French  to 
assume  the  Protectorate,  and  the  struggles  of  the  people 
to  retain  their  independence,  as  guaranteed  by  the  treaty 
of  1847.  During  this  period  there  are  frequent  complaints 
from  the  brethren  with  regard  to  the  lack  of  spirituality 
amongst  the  people ;  but  their  liberality  in  contributions 
to  the  London  Missionary  Society  is  highly  spoken  of. 
In  1882  the  contributions  from  the  islands  amounted  to 
£62'/  \6s.,  and  in  1886  to  £']\o. 

The  Training  Institution  at  Tahaa  was  the  means  of 
accomplishing  a  good  work,  for  students  were  sent  from 
time  to  time  to  New  Guinea  and  to  supply  the  needs  of 
Tahiti  and  the  neighbouring  islands.  When  any  of  these 
died  in  the  field  others  were  at  once  ready  and  eager  to  take 
their  places.  In  1868  the  supply  of  students  exceeded  the 
demand,  and  the  institution,  owing  to  Mr.  Green's  removal 
to  Tahiti,  was  discontinued  in  the  following  year.  In  1873 
it  was  removed  to  Raiatea,  and  finally  closed  in  1888. 

Tamatoa,  the  young  king  of  Raiatea  and  Tahaa,  was 
a  drunkard,  and  acted  like  a  madman.  In  May,  1871,  he 
committed  murder,  and  was  'judged  and  banished  for  ever.' 
A  war  then  followed  between  the  supporters  of  Tamatoa's 
daughter  and  those  of  Tahitoe,  his  relative.  The  latter 
being  victorious,  Tahitoe  was  proclaimed  king.  It  is  men- 
tioned by  Vivian  (in  May,  1872),  as  revealing  a  curious 
native  characteristic,  that  immediately  after  the  war  those 
who  had  been  fighting  with  each  other  were  assembled  in 
the  chapel, '  holding  a  prayer-meeting  and  singing  together, 
and  thanking  God  for  preserving  them  through  their  great 
trouble.' 

The  sudden  death  of  Mr.  Vivian,  in  1 874,  and  Mr.  Saville's 
absence  in  England,  left  the  whole  of  the  work  in  the  islands 
in  the  hands  of  Mr.  Albert  Pearse,  who  took  up  work  in 
Borabora  in  1870,  and  in  1874  removed  to  Raiatea.  In  1876 
he  reported  that  there  was  a  growing  desire  for  instruction, 
and  a  constant  demand  for  school-books  and  materials  ; 
and  yet,  in  1887,  Richards  says  that  'the  apathy  of  the 
people  as   regards  education  is    the   great  barrier  to   all 


350  THE  SOCIETY  ISLANDS:    1S40-1S90 

progress.'  Mr.  Pearse  devoted  considerable  time  to  the 
printing-press,  thus  helping  to  supply  the  demand  for 
school-books,  as  well  as  issuing  works  of  other  kinds,  and 
doing  the  printing  that  was  required  by  Mr.  Green  of 
Tahiti. 

In  1880  complications  with  the  French  recommenced, 
bringing  much  trouble  to  the  islands,  especially  to  Raiatea. 
In  April,  the  Raiateans,  through  misrepresentations  of 
the  French,  accepted  a  French  Protectorate ;  but  after 
British  remonstrance  the  Protectorate  flag  was  removed 
in  December.  In  March,  1881,  King  Tahitoe  was 
deposed  and  banished  for  favouring  French  protection, 
and  his  eldest  daughter,  Terii-hau-roa^,  succeeded  him. 
Shortly  after  this  event  the  French  rehoisted  their  flag, 
apparently  with  the  consent  of  Great  Britain,  pending 
negotiations  between  Great  Britain  and  France  respecting 
the  Leeward  treaty  of  independence  of  1847.  This  treaty 
was  at  length  abrogated,  and  French  protection  in  the 
islands  was  followed,  in  1888,  by  annexation.  Mr.  Richards, 
who  reached  Raiatea  in  1885,  and  who  had  laboured  hard 
to  prevent  the  shedding  of  blood,  died  in  1888,  and  Mr.  E .  V. 
Cooper,  who  had  taken  up  work  in  Huahine  in  1882,  was 
left  sole  missionary  in  the  Leeward  Islands.  Mr.  Cooper, 
because  he  tried  to  prevent  the  holding  of  meetings  to  pray 
for  the  defeat  and  destruction  of  the  French,  was  prohibited 
by  the  queen  from  preaching  again  ;  but  the  prohibition 
was  afterwards  withdrawn.  After  trying  again  to  put  down 
the  hostile  prayer-meetings,  he  was  met  with  a  'defiant, 
angry  refusal,'  and  then  resigned  his  charge  into  the  hands 
of  the  church  and  Government,  and  retired  to  Tahiti  at 
the  close  of  1889.  After  withdrawing  from  Raiatea,  the 
London  Missionary  Society  withdrew  from  the  remaining 
i.slands,  and  in  1890  the  mission  was  handed  over  to  the 
care  of  the  Paris  Evangelical  Society. 

*  She  died  April,  1884,  and  was  succeeded  tiy  Tamatoa  VI,  who  is  said  to 
have  been  'spiritually-minded,'  and  'one  of  the  sincerest  Christians  in  the 
island.'  He  abdicated  rather  than  become  the  tool  of  the  French  (1888),  and 
his  regent,  Tavana,  succeeded,  who  soon  accepted  a  French  pension. 


WORK  RELINQUISHED  351 

Durin^:^  all  this  period  the  Austral  group  (Raivavae, 
Tubuai.  Rurutu,  Rapa  and  Rimatara)  were  supplied  by 
native  teachers,  and  periodically  visited  by  the  missionaries 
from  the  Leeward  Isles. 

In  this  way  and  at  this  time,  as  in  Tahiti,  the  work  of 
the  Society  came  to  an  end  in  the  Leeward  group.  To 
these  islands,  as  the  first  extension  of  work,  the  glad  tidings 
of  salvation  were  sent  from  Tahiti.  Closely  identified  with 
that  island  in  social  and  political  relations,  it  was  inevitable 
that  the  course  of  the  one  should  influence  the  history  of 
the  other.  So  long  as  France  respected  the  treaty  of  1^47, 
it  was  possible  for  the  Society's  missionaries  to  work  hope- 
fully and  successfully  in  the  group.  But  upon  the  abrogation 
of  that  treaty  their  withdrawal  was  only  a  matter  of  time. 
It  will,  however,  always  remain  an  occasion  for  gratitude 
that  for  three-quarters  of  a  century  good  and  fruitful  work 
was  there  done.  A  mission  that  can  point  among  others 
to  such  a  succession  of  able  and  earnest  workers  as  John 
Williams,  William  Ellis,  Charles  Barff,  George  Piatt,  John 
Barff,  J.  L.  Green,  W.  E.  Richards,  A.  Pearse,  and  A.  T. 
Saville  must  leave  a  permanent  mark  upon  the  religious 
history  of  Polynesia.  Whatever  progress  the  Society 
Islands  may  make  in  coming  years,  under  God's  guidance, 
in  civilization  and  in  Christian  life  and  thought,  they  will 
always  remain  debtors  to  the  faithful  men  and  women  who 
from  181 7  to  1890  both  lived  and  taught  there  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

[Authorities. — Letters  and  Journals  ;  Annual  Reports.] 


CHAPTER   X 

THE   HERVEY   GROUP:    1835-1895 

The  planting  of  Christianity  in  the  Hei-vey  Islands  has 
been  described  in  Chapter  VI.  The  history  of  its  progress 
and  consolidation  can  be  rapidly  sketched. 

I.  Rarotonga.  In  May,  1833, Mr.  Aaron Buzacott  formed 
the  first  Christian  church  at  Avarua,  the  station  he  occupied 
on  Rarotonga.  It  was  composed  of  four  men — Marau, 
Uriarau,  Tauta,  and  Ma,  all  of  whom  had  been  cannibals 
and  concerned  in  many  cruel  and  savage  deeds.  These  men 
remained  steadfast,  and  lived  truly  consistent  lives,  one  only, 
Ma,  surviving  Mr.  Buzacott.  One  of  the  main  objects  for 
which  John  Williams  went  to  England  in  1835  was  to  pass 
through  the  press  the  Rarotongan  New  Testament,  the 
work  of  Pitman,  Buzacott,  and  himself.  It  was  printed  by 
the  Bible  Society,  and  in  1839  the  Camden  brought  out 
the  edition  of  5,oco.  In  the  same  vessel  came  the  Rev. 
William  Gill,  appointed  to  work  at  Arorangi.  The  mission 
on  Rarotonga  being  thus  strengthened,  Mr.  Buzacott,  in 
addition  to  the  routine  work  of  his  station,  set  himself 
to  the  task  of  which  he  and  Williams  had  felt  so  greatly 
the  need — the  establishment  of  a  training  institution  for 
native  preachers.  A  strong  commodious  building  of  block 
coral  was  built  at  the  cost  of  Mr.  Buzacott  and  his  people. 
The  wisdom  of  building  well  was  shown  by  the  fact  that  this 
structure  survived  even  the  awful  hurricane  of  1846.  Begun 
in  1839  the  institution  has  had  a  most  prosperous  career 
down    to    the   present   day.     A    marvellous   succession    of 


TRAINING  INSTITUTION  AT  RAROTONGA      353 

devoted  native  teachers  have  been  trained  there  under 
Kuzacott,  George  Gill,  E.  Krause,  James  Chalmers,  Wyatt 
Gill,  and  J.  J.  K.  Hutchin.  There  were  educated  many  of 
the  men  and  women  who  won  Mare  and  Lifu  for  Christ,  and 
many  of  those  who  have  toiled  in  faith  and  love — a  large 
number  giving  even  their  lives — to  evangelize  New  Guinea. 
One  of  the  most  conspicuous  proofs  of  the  reality  and  the 
powder  of  the  Gospel  in  Polynesia  is  the  existence  of  the 
Training  College  at  Rarotonga  with  its  noble  missionary 
record. 

In  1893  the  Rev.  J.  J.  K.  Hutchin  thus  summed  up  the 
work  and  influence  of  the  College  : — 

'  In  connexion  with  the  mission  at  Rarotonga,  an  Insti- 
tution for  the  Training  of  Native  Teachers  was  founded 
in  the  year  1839,  and  since  that  year  the  work  has  been 
carried  on  up  to  the  present  time,  and  490  men  and 
women  have  been  trained  there.  Pioneer  teachers  from 
Rarotonga  took  the  Gospel  to  Samoa,  to  the  Loyalty 
group,  to  the  New  Hebrides,  and  to  the  south-east  part 
of  New  Guinea,  in  1872.  From  1872-91,  fifty-two  couples 
were  sent  to  New  Guinea,  and  of  that  number,  up  to  the 
year  1891,  seventeen  men  and  twenty-three  women  died  of 
fever  ;  three  men  and  three  women  returned  home ;  four 
men  and  three  women  were  killed,  leaving  thirty  men 
and  twenty-five  women  at  work  for  Christ.  Since  the 
compilation  of  these  statistics,  several  others  have  been 
called  home.  Ebera  has  lost  his  wife  and  child  through 
the  terrible  New  Guinea  fever ;  and  yet  in  his  loneliness 
and  sorrow  he  wrote  to  me  the  other  day  and  said  :  "  It 
is  a  work  of  joy  to  me  to  be  here  in  New  Guinea,  doing 
the  work  of  Christ  our  Master."  These  noble  men  and 
women  are  the  flower  of  our  churches  ;  and  their  simple 
faith  and  whole-hearted  devotion  to  Christ  are  worthy  of 
all  praise.' 

Tiie  wonderful  progress  achieved  in  the  colirsc  of  a 
single  generation  by  the  natives  of  Rarotonga — typical 
of  similar  progress  in  many  other  islands — is  powerfully 
set  forth  in  the  Mission  Life  in  the  Islands  of  the  Pacific: 

I.  A  a 


354  ^^^   HERVEY  GROUP:   1835-1S95 

A  narrative  of  the  Life  and  Labours  of  the  Rev.  Aaron 
Bnzacott  ^. 

'In  J  828  the  natives  appeared  as  naked  savages,  the 
men  wearing  a  narrow  belt  of  cloth  round  the  loins ;  the 
women  girded  with  a  short  petticoat  of  tapa ;  on  special 
occasions  they  wore  large  lengths  of  the  same  material 
twisted  several  times  around  their  waists  ;  but  all  children, 
from  infancy  up  to  ten  or  twelve  years  of  age,  walked 
about  everywhere  in  a  state  of  perfect  nudity.  In  1857, 
Captain  Belcher,  of  H.M.S.  Sulphur,  found  the  chief  in 
the  market-house,  "  tidily  dressed  in  European  costume — 
cotton  shirt,  white  trousers,  and  white  frock  coat — super- 
intending the  purchases  of  the  captains  of  whalers."  The 
women  generally  gird  themselves  with  a  wrapper  of  tapa 
as  an  inner  garment,  a  long  flowing  robe  is  then  thrown 
over  the  whole  person,  and  a  bonnet  of  finely  wrought 
plait,  and  trimmed  with  gay  ribbons  according  to  fancy, 
completes  "  my  lady's  "  toilet.  The  men  wear  coats,  waist- 
coats, shirts,  and  trousers  ;  most  have  coarse  rush  hats  for 
daily  use,  and  better  ones  for  Sundays.  A  few  may  be 
seen  wearing  shoes  and  stockings ;  while  all  the  children 
are  decently  clothed.  In  short,  the  change  is  almost  as 
complete  as  the  climate  and  circumstances  will  admit. 

'  In  1828  their  dwellings  were  mere  wigwams.  The  whole 
clan  lived  and  slept  under  one  roof,  old  and  young,  men 
and  women,  herding  together  on  mats,  without  even  a  screen 
to  separate  them.  The  door,  about  four  feet  square,  served 
also  for  a  window.  In  1857  ^very  family  had  a  good  cot- 
tage to  itself,  with  plenty  of  garden  ground.  The  houses 
of  the  poor  were  made  of  wattle,  and  contained  at  least 
two  rooms,  and  were  infinitely  superior  to  the  dwellings 
of  the  chiefs  in  1828.  The  industrious  and  upper  classes 
dwelt  in  beautiful  cool  stone  cottages  built  of  block  coral, 
each  containing  three  or  more  rooms,  with  wooden  floors  and 
Venetian  windows  to  each  room.  Chairs,  tables,  sofas,  and 
beds,  and  mats  instead  of  carpets,  constitute  their  furniture. 

'In  1828  the  natives  lived  upon  cocoa-nuts,  bread-fruit, 

^  Pp.  238-246. 


PROGRESS  SINCE  182S  355 

bananas  and  taro  (wild  arum),  with  what  fish  they  could 
catch.  The  original  breed  of  pigs  was  very  small,  and 
pork  was  rarely  tasted  by  the  middle  class,  never  by  the 
poor.  In  1H57,  cattle,  a  better  and  more  prolific  breed  of 
pigs,  turkeys,  fowls,  Muscovy  ducks,  sweet  potatoes,  beans, 
oranges,  limes,  citrons,  tomatoes,  turnips,  loquet,  custard 
apples,  pineapples,  coffee,  Indian  corn,  carrots,  cabbages, 
arrowroot,  rice,  and  tapioca,  had  been  introduced  into  the 
island. 

'In  1828,  none  could  read,  though  many  could  repeat 
the  Tahitian  alphabet.  There  was  not  one  book  in  their 
language,  although  Mr.  Williams  was  translating  the  Gospel 
of  John,  and  composing  a  few  hymns.  Mr.  Buzacott  could 
muster  only  twelve  slates  for  one  thousand  adult  scholars, 
and  fifteen  hundred  children.  In  1857,  school-books  and 
slates  could  be  bought  by  the  poorest  without  difficulty, 
the  whole  population  could  read,  the  majority  could  write 
and  do  a  little  cyphering.  Not  a  few  knew  the  elements 
of  geography,  astronomy,  and  sacred  history. 

'  Education  has  produced  its  usual  effects  among  the 
Rarotongans.  The  vacant  stare  in  some,  and  the  ferocious 
countenance  in  others,  have  given  way  to  a  mild  and 
engaging  demeanour,  which  of  course  is  most  marked  in 
the  present  generation,  since  they  have  all  been  trained 
in  the  mission-schools.  In  courtesy  of  spirit  and  dignity 
of  manners,  and  delicate  consideration  for  the  feelings  of 
others,  some  of  the  Rarotongans  excel  the  majorit}'  o^ 
Englishmen. 

'  In  1828,  the  only  law  was  the  arbitrary  will  of  Makea, 
influenced  by  any  motive  which  might  sway  his  heart,  full 
of  the  violent  passions  which  despotism  and  heathenism 
usually  foster  in  savage  natures.  In  1857,  two  codes  of 
laws  had  long  been  in  existence — one  for  the  natives,  and 
another  for  foreigners.  Makea.  the  most  valiant  and 
dreaded  chief  on  the  island,  bowed  to  the  majesty  of  law, 
and  thus  gave  the  people  an  unmistakable  pledge  that 
laws  would  be  administered  without  respect  of  persons. 

'In    1828    idolatry    was    abolished^    and    the    religious 

A  a  2 


356  THE  HERVEY  GROUP:  1S35-1S95 

sei*vices  and  schools  were  well  attended,  but  not  one  conver- 
sion had  taken  place,  nor  did  any  person  appear  to  have 
gained  any  clear  conception  of  the  nature  and  character 
of  the  living  God,  of  salvation  by  Christ,  of  the  sin  of  man, 
and  of  Divine  worship.  The  Sabbath  was  strictly  observed, 
but  only  through  a  superstitious  dread  of  the  new  God,  and 
by  the  express  orders  of  Makea.  In  1857,  the  Lord's-day 
was  cheerfully  devoted  to  the  worship  of  God,  without  any 
fears  of  sudden  death,  and  without  any  penalty  for  break- 
ing the  Sabbath.  All  who  were  not  detained  at  home  by 
sickness,  or  by  attendance  upon  the  sick,  regularly  filled 
their  seats  in  the  house  of  God,  and  displayed  an  intelligent 
and  cordial  interest  in  all  parts  of  the  service. 

'In  1828,  the  Rarotongans  were  notorious,  mUr  ah'a, 
for  their  revengefulness.  "  On  receiving  an  injury,  if  they 
could  not  at  the  moment  be  revenged,  it  would  be  recorded 
by  a  certain  mark  tatooed  on  the  throat ;  and  if  the  father 
died  unavenged,  the  son  would  receive  the  mark  on  his 
throat,  and  thus  it  would  go  on  from  generation  to  genera- 
tion, and  nothing  would  obliterate  the  injury  but  the  death 
of  some  one  of  the  family  by  whom  it  had  been  inflicted. 
Some  had  two  marks,  others  three,  and  some  so  many 
that  their  throats  were  covered."  In  contrast  to  this  spirit 
and  practice,  let  the  reader  recall  the  feelings  awakened 
at  Avarua  by  the  tidings  that  their  beloved  friend,  John 
Williams,  had  been  murdered  at  Erromanga.  Amid  their 
tears  and  wailings  of  grief,  a  native  student  arose,  and 
uttered  these  sentiments — "  Oh,  do  not  delay  to  send  the 
Gospel  to  Erromanga.  The  word  of  God  must  prosper 
where  the  blood  of  his  servant  has  been  shed.  The  seed 
is  already  sown."  And  immediately  scores  of  "amens" 
endorsed  this  appeal.' 

During  the  same  period  a  great  work  was  accomplished 
in  Bible  translation  and  in  the  preparation  of  Christian 
literature.  The  language  had  been  reduced  to  writing 
and  the  New  Testament  translated  into  Rarotongan  when 
John  Williams  visited  England  in  1834.  Of  this,  he  him- 
self translated    John,    Galatians,    and    from    Hebrews   to 


BIBLE   TRANSLATION  357 

Revelation  inclusive.  Buzacott  translated  Matthew  and 
I  and  2  Corinthians.  The  rest  was  the  work  of  that  ripe 
and  accomplished  scholar,  Air.  C.  Pitman. 

'  The  whole  of  the  New  Testament  (except  two  books 
by  Rev.  A.  Buzacott)  was  translated  by  Williams  and 
Pitman,  the  latter  being  responsible  for  its  fidelity  to  the 
original.  In  1828,  Mr.  Buzacott  became  the  colleague  of 
Mr.  Pitman  at  Rarotonga.  P'or  twenty  years  these  good 
men  toiled  day  and  night  at  the  translation  of  the  Bible 
out  of  the  original  tongues  into  a  language  which  had 
never  previously  been  written.  Mr.  Pitman's  profound 
acquaintance  with  the  Hebrew  proved  invaluable.  For 
years  small  portions  of  the  New  Testament  were  circulated 
amongst  the  natives  in  MS.,  being  either  written  on  paper, 
or,  when  that  ran  short,  on  tikoni.  i.  e.  white  native  cloth 
made  of  the  inner  bark  of  the  paper  mulberry  {Broussonetia 
papyrifeva).  The  First  of  Peter  in  Rarotongan  was  printed 
at  Bunaauia  on  Tahiti.  This  was  the  earliest  attempt  at 
printing  in  the  Rarotongan  language.  The  Gospel  by  John 
and  the  Epistle  to  the  Galatians  were  printed  at  Huahine. 
The  remainder  of  the  New  Testament  and  most  of  the 
Old  were  printed  and  bound  in  numerous  small  volumes 
at  Avarua  on  Rarotonga,  by  the  versatile  and  indefatigable 
Mr.  Buzacott.  The  first  complete  edition  of  the  Raroton- 
gan New  Testament  (every  verse  of  which  had  been  re- 
peatedly compared  with  the  Greek  original)  was  carried 
through  the  press  in  England,  at  the  expense  of  the  British 
and  Foreign  Bible  Society,  by  Mr.  Williams,  during  his 
visit,  1835-38.  The  entire  cost  of  the  .5,000  copies  then 
printed  was  refunded  to  the  Society  by  the  ready  sale  of 
the  book  amongst  the  Hervey  Islanders  ^' 

The  basis  of  all  this  translation  work  was  Nott's  Tahitian 
Bible.  The  Old  Testament  was  translated  into  Rarotongan 
by  Mr.  Pitman  and  Mr.  Buzacott,  the  first  named  being  an 
exceptionally  fine  Hebrew  scholar.  Buzacott  printed  many 
of  the  separate  books  of  the  New  Testament  by  means  of 
an  old  wooden  press  which  he  possessed.    The  first  complete 

'   TJie  Bible  in  the  Western  Pacific,  A.  \V,  Murray,  p.  i%. 


358  THE  HERVEY  GROUP:  1S35-1S95 

edition  of  the  Rarotongan  Bible  was  produced  in  England 
at  the  cost  of  the  Bible  Society,  and  seen  through  the 
press  by  Mr.  Buzacott,  1847-51.  It  was  revised  in  1855, 
and  again  in  1872.  Finally  in  1888  Mr.  Wyatt  Gill 
saw  through  the  press  what  will  doubtless  be  for  many 
years  to  come  the  standard  version  of  the  Scriptures  in 
that  language.  His  testimony  to  the  value  of  the  work 
in  this  field  done  by  his  predecessors  is  very  strong. 
Writing  about  the  1888  revision,  he  says  : 

'  If  my  work  is  a  success,  it  is  due  mainly  to  the  untiring 
aid  of  Taunga,  who  for  considerably  more  than  forty  years 
has  been  a  faithful  preacher  of  the  Word  in  the  Western 
Pacific,  in  Samoa,  and  latterly  in  Rarotonga — the  land  of 
his  birth.  Taunga,  the  pupil  and  beloved  friend  of  the 
late  Rev.  C.  Pitman,  is  acknowledged  to  be  the  best  living 
authority  on  the  Rarotongan  language.  In  1852  I  heard 
the  Rev.  W.  Howe  remark  that  the  Tahitian  brethren  found 
by  experience  that  no  one  could  beat  "  Noti "  (the  Rev.  H. 
Nott's  version).  Even  so  the  unexpected  result  of  the 
several  revisions  of  the  Rarotongan  Bible  has  been  to 
prove  conclusively  that,  overlooking  the  serious  blemish  of 
words  of  foreign  origin,  the  work  of  the  original  translators 
is  beyond  all  praise  for  idiomatic  purity,  nervous  strength, 
and  beauty.  And  well  it  is  for  the  islanders  that  it  is  so, 
as  throughout  the  Eastern  Pacific  the  various  dialects  are 
rapidly  deteriorating,  by  admixture  from  various  sources, 
native  and  foreign.  I  subjoin  a  single  illustration  of  the 
grip  which  the  early  translators  possessed  of  the  Rarotongan 
language.  In  the  edition  of  1851,  the  phrase  in  Zechariah 
v.  3,  "  on  tht  face  of  the  whole  earth  "  is  correctly  rendered, 
I  te  tiia  emia.  The  translator  is  compelled  to  reverse  the 
figure.  It  is  no  longer  "the  face!'  but  "the  backl'  broad 
and  strong,  of  the  earth-parent.  A  subsequent  editor, 
scandalized  at  the  alteration  of  the  figure,  to  solve  the 
difficulty,  dropped  out  the  clause.  Of  course  the  original 
translation  (the  only  possible  one)  is  now  restored. 

'The  original  translators  of  the  Rarotongan  Bible  caught 
the  real  genius  of  the  language,  and  gave  it  a  permanent 


CHIEF  MISSIONARY  WORKERS  359 

embodiment  whilst  it  was  as  \'et  utterly  untouched  by  out- 
side influences.  The  rendering  of  the  patriarchal  portions 
is  simply  perfect,  the  language  of  the  islanders  being  so 
well  adapted  for  the  purpose.  Indeed,  Polynesian  life,  at 
its  best,  is  strictly  patriarchal.  The  Gospels  lend  them- 
selves very  readily  to  translation ;  but  in  the  Epistles 
a  difficulty  was  evidently  felt  by  the  translators  in  obtain- 
ing exact  equivalents  for  the  key-notes  of  the  Christian 
system.  Too  great  praise  cannot  be  given  to  the  Rev.  H. 
Nott,  of  Tahiti,  and  his  coadjutors,  who,  in  making  the 
Tahitian  translation,  unconsciously  fixed  the  theological 
terms  for  several  other  groups  ^' 

Rarotonga  has  been  favoured  with  a  noble  band  of 
missionary  workers  and  has,  on  the  vvhole,  been  less  ex- 
posed to  the  distracting  social  and  political  influences 
of  European  civiHzation  than  many  other  parts  of  the 
Pacific.  Charles  Pitman  laboured  at  Ngatangiia  from 
1S27-1855,  when  he  retired  to  Sydney,  where  he  died  in 
]8(S4at  the  advanced  age  of  eighty-eight.  Aaron  Buzacott, 
a  man  of  great  energy,  fine  Christian  character,  and  sound 
common  sense,  described  by  those  who  knew  him  best 
as  'the  model  missionary,'  worked  at  Avarua  from  1828- 
1857.  He  died  at  Sydney  in  1864.  William  Gill  was 
stationed  at  Arorangi  from  1839  to  1852.  George  Gill 
carried  on  the  Institution  from  1857  to  i860  ;  and 
Mr.  Krause  from  i860  to  1867.  From  1867  to  1877 
James  Chalmers  had  charge  of  the  mission,  and  when, 
in  the  latter  year,  he  left  for  New  Guinea  he  was  suc- 
ceeded by  W.  VVyatt  Gill,  who  laboured  there  until  1883, 
when  he  retired  after  thirty-two  years  of  active  service. 
Since  1  883  the  mission  has  been  under  the  charge  of  the 
Rev.  J.  J.  K.  Hutchin.  In  j888  a  British  Protectorate  was 
proclaimed  over  the  whole  Hervey  group,  thus  effectually 
removing  them  out  of  the  sphere  and  the  disturbing  effect 
of  French  influence. 

In    1892    Miss   Ardill   was   sent   out   to  conduct  school 
work  in  English  in  the  island,  and  the  last  report  (1895) 

*  From  Darkness  to  Light  in  Polynesia,  pp.  350,  351. 


360  THE  HERVEY  GROUP:  1835-1895 

contains  tidings  of  the  satisfactory  beginning  and  progress 
of  her  efforts  to  benefit  the  children.  From  1821  to  1894 
Rarotonga  was  free  from  all  religious  sectarianism.  But 
in  that  year  two  Roman  Catholic  priests  from  Tahiti,  and 
two  members  of  the  Seventh  Day  Adventists  of  America 
landed  upon  the  island.  The  results  of  efforts  like  these 
the  future  alone  can  show.  It  is  deplorable  that  while 
there  are  still  so  many  unoccupied  fields  in  the  Pacific, 
Christians  of  whatever  name  or  special  ecclesiastical  polity 
do  not  go  to  those  who  have  never  even  heard  of  the 
Gospel,  instead  of  introducing,  as  they  so  often  do,  con- 
fusion and  controversy  where  good  work  has  been  done  in 
the  past  and  is  still  being  successfully  carried  on. 

2.  Mangaia.  Until  1839  Mangaia  was  considered  an 
out-station  of  the  Tahiti  Mission  ;  but  in  that  year  it  was 
handed  over  to  the  care  of  the  brethren  on  Rarotonga. 
Maretu,  a  native  of  the  island,  who  had  been  working 
under  Mr.  Pitman,  came,  in  1839,  to  the  aid  of  Davida  ^, 
taught  the  people  in  their  own  language,  and  greatly 
developed  Christian  work  on  the  island.  Mr.  William  Gill, 
while  one  of  the  resident  missionaries  upon  Rarotonga, 
paid  repeated  visits  to  Mangaia,  staying  there  at  times 
for  months  together,  and  in  1845  his  brother  George  Gill, 
twenty-one  years  after  the  landing  of  Davida  and  Tiere, 
became  the  first  resident  European  missionary.  He  built 
substantial  mission  premises  in  the  three  main  villages, 
and  consolidated  the  work  throughout  the  island.  In  1852 
the  Rev.  W.  Wyatt  Gill  became  his  coadjutor,  and  the 
two  laboured  together  until  1857,  when  George  Gill  re- 
moved to  Rarotonga  to  take  charge  of  the  Training 
Institute  there  in  succession  to  Mr.  Buzacott.  Wyatt  Gill 
made  a  careful  study  of  the  folk-lore  and  traditions  of 
the  islanders. 

Dr.  Wyatt  Gill  has  laid  all  friends  of  missions  and  all 
students  of  ethnology  and  folk-lore  under  a  heavy  debt  of 
obligation  by  his  most  valuable  books  dealing  with   native 

'  See  page  282. 


MANGAIA  361 

life  in  Polynesia  generally,  but  especiallv  with  the  Hervey 
group.  In  the  preface  to  From  Daj^kness  to  Light  in 
Polynesia^  he  says  :  — 

''  When  we  first  settled  down  amongst  these  islanders 
(Mangaia)  and  attempted  to  acquire  their  language,  I  was 
often  puzzled  by  references  to  past  events,  scraps  of  song, 
myths,  and  proverbs — the  force  of  which  depended  upon  an 
accurate  acquaintance  with  the  circumstances  which  origi- 
nally led  to  their  utterance.  Two  courses  lay  open  to  me — 
either  to  ignore  their  ancient  religion  and  their  undoubted 
history,  or  to  study  both  for  their  own  sake,  and  especially 
with  a  view  to  understand  native  thought  and  feeling. 
I  chose  the  latter  course.  The  ignorance  of  these  islanders  of 
the  art  of  writing  fully  accounts  for  the  absence  of  many  really 
ancient  compositions.  It  was  not  that  they  were  deficient 
in  natural  ability,  or  in  desire  to  perpetuate  the  knowledge 
of  the  remote  past.  Each  clan,  as  it  rose  to  importance, 
was  assiduous  in  composing  and  preserving  its  own  songs 
and  history,  but  was  willing  enough  to  cast  into  shade 
those  of  its  fallen  rivals.  I  have  been  the  more  anxious  to 
put  these  things  on  record,  as  the  correct  knowledge  of  the 
pa.st  is  rapidly  fading  away,  and  will  probably  soon  become 
extinct^.' 

Very  many  in  number  are  the  thrilling  and  instructive 
episodes  connected  with  the  past  history  of  these  islands, 
the  introduction  of  Christianity  into  them,  and  their  de- 
velopment under  Christian  teaching  during  the  last  fifty 
years.  For  the  deeds  and  experiences  connected  with 
the  beginning  of  Christian  work,  we  must  refer  the  reader 
to  Gems  from  the  Coral  Islands,  by  the  Rev.  William 
Gill,  First  and  Second  Series.  For  the  later  development 
of  Christianity,  especially  in  Mangaia.  and  for  a  careful 
study  of  the  history,  religion,  and  life  of  the  Hervw 
Islanders,  as  illustrated  by  their  own  records  and  legends, 
the  reader  should  study  the  careful,  scholarly,  and  attrac- 
tive  volumes   of    Dr.   Wyatt   Gill,    especially   Myths   and 

'  From  Darkness  to  Light  in  J^o/^'ncsia,  pp.  8,  9.  Religious  Tract  Society, 
J  894. 


362  THE   HERVEY  GROUP:   1835-1895 

Songs  from  the  South  Pacific ;  Life  in  the  SoiitJiern  Isles ; 
Jottings  from  the  Pacific  ;  and,  in  many  respects  the  most 
important  of  all,  From  Darkness  to  Light  in  Polynesia. 
In  this  book  Dr.  Gill  writes  : — 

'  Of  the  men  who  welcomed  the  first  white  missionary  in 
1845,  and  myself  in  1852,  few  now  survive  ;  they  were  men 
who  knew  by  bitter  experience  the  cruel  bondage  of 
heathenism,  and  who  lovingly  embraced  Christianity.  We 
thank  God  that  these  worthies  died  as  they  had  lived  in  the 
faith  of  the  Gospel.  Our  converts  do  not  seem  to  be 
troubled  with  the  doubts  and  fears  which  affect  the  highly- 
cultured  European.  May  not  this  be  owing  to  the  child- 
like nature  of  their  faith — just  taking  God  at  His  word? 
Amongst  the  excellent  men  whose  death-beds  it  has  been 
my  privilege  to  visit  I  would  refer  to  Rakoia,  chief  of 
Tamarua,  who  died  in  September,  1865,  nearly  eighty 
years  of  age.  He  was  emphatically  a  good  man,  ready 
for  every  good  word  and  work.  He  was  never  absent  from 
his  place  in  the  adult  Bible-class  or  in  church,  except  when 
ill.  During  the  last  two  years  of  his  life  he  became  childish  ; 
yet  I  could  nearly  always  fix  his  attention  for  a  few  minutes 
by  referring  to  the  interests  of  his  soul.  The  last  words 
I  heard  from  his  lips  a  few  days  before  his  death  were, 
"  I  am  dying ;  but  I  am  in  God's  hands.  Jesus  alone  is 
the  Way,  the  Truth,  and  the  Life ! "  I  bless  God  for  the 
many  dying  testimonies  I  have  met  with  among  these  poor 
natives  to  the  power  of  the  Gospel  to  take  away  the  sting 
of  death,  and  to  impart  in  its  place  a  bright  hope  of  a  bliss- 
ful immortality.  It  should  be  remembered  that  these  men 
were  all  warriors  in  heathenism,  and  had  freely  shed  blood 
without  compunction  in  those  days  of  darkness.  They 
grew  up  in  the  practice  of  a  debasing  superstition,  and  yet 
cordially  embraced  the  teachings  and  moral  requirements 
of  the  Gospel.' 

In  1872  the  Rev.  G.  A.  Harris  took  charge  of  the  mission 
on  Mangaia.  Under  his  care  the  islanders  made  steady  pro- 
gress in  Christianity  and  civilization.  In  1893  Mr.  Harris 
retired,  and  in  1894  was  succeeded  by  the  Rev.  J.  H.  Cullen, 


NUMANGATINI  OF  MANGAIA  363 

who  has  since  been  in  charge  of  the  work  on  Mangaia. 
Incidents  h"ke  the  following  are  proofs  of  the  good  work 
done  by  the  succession  of  faithful  men  who  have  laboured 
for  the  Gospel  in  the  Hervey  group. 

'On  the  occasion  of  the  visit  of  H.M.S.  Turquoise  to 
Rarotonga  in  1880,  Captain  Medlycott  inquired  of  Makea 
whether  there  had  been  any  fighting  of  late  years  between 
the  three  different  tribes  in  Rarotonga.  The  queen  was 
surprised,  and  asked  for  an  explanation.  Captain  Medlycott 
reiterated,  ''  Have  you  had  any  fighting,  say  within  the  last 
ten  years?"  Turning  to  me,  her  uncle  and  spokesman  said, 
''  Tell  the  captain  that  when  our  fathers  embraced  Christianity 
fifty-seven  years  ago,  we  gave  up  fighting  altogether. 
Should  Christians  fight?'" 

'  Numangatini,  the  aged  king  of  Mangaia,  once  said  to 
me  when  very  despondent,  "  Missionary,  don't  be  anxious 
about  me.  As  long  as  I  breathe  I  will  cling  to  the  Word 
of  God.  Until  that  was  brought  here,  the  heavens  above 
were  the  only  roof  over  me,  as  I  hid  myself  night  after 
night  in  the  tall  reeds  or  fern  of  the  mountains  through  fear 
of  being  slain.  Ere  it  was  dark  w^e,  in  those  sad  days, 
hastily  despatched  our  evening  meal,  so  as  not  to  be  over- 
taken by  darkness  ere  a  place  of  shelter  and  security  had 
been  provided  for  the  night.  On  no  account  could  I  sleep 
in  the  same  place  two  nights  successively.  Our  wives  and 
children  alone  slept  in  our  homes,  as  they  would  not  be 
slain.  N^ow  one  may  sleep  without  fear  on  the  sandy 
beach,  or  in  sequestered  valley,  or  in  one's  own  dwelling, 
and  yet  be  unhurt.  Brief  were  the  intervals  of  peace  ;  war 
and  bloodshed  the  rule." 

'  Yet  this  same  king,  in  times  of  peace,  was  so  sacred 
that  even  the  "  lord  of  Mangaia"  approached  him,  not  with- 
out an  offering,  on  all  fours  I  It  may  not  be  out  of  place 
to  give  the  story  of  Numangatini's  installation  as  king 
(a.d.  1 8 14).  The  morning  star  had  just  appeared,  when 
the  loud  call  E  tama  —  ''^0  sir!"^  aroused  him.     Coming 

^    Kings   were    never   addressed    by    their    proper    names,    but    as    above, 
E  tama  ! 


364  THE  HERVEY  GROUP:   1835-1S95 

outside  he  found  Tamaine  and  Valpo,  deputed  by  "the 
lord  of  Mangaia"  as  representing  the  victors.  Two  curiously 
plaited  cocoa-nut  leaves  were  placed  on  the  ground  ;  he  was 
desired  to  plant  his  feet  on  them.  His  legs  were  then 
carefully  anointed  with  scented  cocoa-nut  oil.  Then  the 
sacred  girdle  [inaro  aittc)  was  adjusted  by  them  on  his  person. 
Six  stout  white  garments  [tikorii),  beaten  out  from  the  inner 
bark  of  the  Bronsso7ietia  papyrifera,  were  next  placed  on 
his  shoulders.  Finally  these  vestments  were  removed  and 
hidden  in  a  sacred  cave.  This  was  the  secret  ceremony. 
The  public  installation  of  the  new  king  took  place  a  day 
or  two  later.  He  was  on  this  occasion  formally  seated  by 
the  temporal  lord,  in  the  presence  of  the  leading  under- 
chiefs,  upon  "the  sacred  sandstone"  in  Kongo's  marae  on 
the  sea-shore,  facing  the  setting  sun. 

'  During  the  many  years  of  our  close  intimacy  I  saw  very 
much  to  admire  and  nothing  whatever  to  blame  in  the 
character  and  Christian  profession  of  King  Numangatini. 
He  was  always  in  his  place  in  the  house  of  God.  Never 
was  a  ruler  more  sincerely  lamented  at  his  death  at  a  very 
advanced  age  in  1878.  He  passed  away  in  possession  of 
all  his  faculties,  and  left  a  beautiful  testimony  of  the  power 
of  Christianity  \' 

3.  AlTUTAKl.  The  first  resident  missionary  was  the 
Rev.  Henry  Royle,  and  his  work  upon  Aitutaki  is  a  beau- 
tiful illustration  of  the  quiet,  long,  and  fruitful  service 
rendered  to  the  cause  of  our  common  Master  by  men 
whose  names  are  unfamiliar  even  to  the  vast  majority 
of  the  supporters  of  the  Society  in  whose  service  they 
toil.  Some  missionaries,  seem  by  reason  of  almost  acci- 
dental circumstances,  to  acquire  a  world-wide  reputation. 
Others,  in  a  quiet  corner  of  the  world's  vast  vineyard, 
labour  for  long  years  absolutely  unknown  beyond  the 
sphere  of  their  daily  toil  and  the  narrow  circle  of  their 
relatives  and  personal  friends.  Yet  it  is  more  than  probable 
that   when   the  issues  of  life  are  estimated  by  the  Judge 

*  From  Darkness  to  Light  in  Polynesia,  pp.  378,  379. 


HENRY  ROYLE  AT  AITUTAKI  365 

who  never  errs,  the  work  accomplished  by  these  quiet, 
faithful  servants  will  be  found  quite  as  precious  in  His  eyes 
as  that  of  some  who  have  loomed  largely  before  the  eyes 
of  their  own  generation. 

Henry  Royle  worked  on  quietly  in  the  lovely  little 
island  of  Aitutaki  for  seven  and  thirty  years.  The  inhabi- 
tants were  never  very  numerous,  and  in  later  years  hardly 
exceeded  a  few  hundreds.     Wyatt  Gill  writes : — 

'This  beautiful  and  fertile  island  was  discovered  in  1789 
by  Captain  Bligh  in  the  Bounty,  a  few  days  before  the 
celebrated  mutiny  broke  out.  It  is  hilly  and  park-like, 
and  about  eighteen  miles  in  circumference,  with  an  en- 
circling reef  extending  on  the  south-west  for  seven  or  eight 
miles.  There  are  two  settlements  on  the  island  ;  the 
principal  one.  on  the  sheltered  north-west  side,  is  almost 
hidden  among  groves  of  orange  and  citrons  ^' 

To  this  lovely  but  solitary  islet  Mr.  Royle  dedicated  his 
life.  So  remote  was  it  from  all  the  frequented  routes  of 
traffic,  that  constantly  in  the  annual  reports  this  sentence 
occurs :  '  No  report  has  come  to  hand  from  Aitutaki.' 
Mr.  Wyatt  GilL  writing  in  1862,  of  a  visit  he  had  paid 
in  the  John  Williams,  says,  '  I  had  then  the  pleasure  for 
the  first  time  of  meeting  our  brother,  the  Rev.  H.  Royle, 
although  we  have  been  labouring  together  in  the  same 
group  for  ten  years  !  So  few  opportunities  are  there  of 
meeting  each  other  in  these  islands.^  Mr.  Royle  went 
out  in  the  Camden  in  1838,  and  reached  Aitutaki  in  1839. 
At  first  he  found  the  work  very  difficult.  The  natives, 
ignorant  of  his  beneficent  intentions,  opposed  him  ;  a  hurri- 
cane devastated  the  island  ;  and  in  the  midst  of  the  distress 
caused  by  this,  some  of  the  worst  natives,  including  two 
who  had  actually  sought  to  destroy  Mr.  Royle,  were  con- 
verted. From  this  time  the  work  steadily  grew,  and  in 
the  course  of  the  next  few  years  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Royle,  by 
their  devoted  labours,  made  Aitutaki  the  centre  of  most 
successful  missionary  labour.     In  1846  he  wrote: — 

'  The  church  in  this  island  is  the  keystone  to  the  struc- 
*  Life  in  tJie  Southern  Isles,  p.  6. 


366  THE  HERVEY  GROUP:  1835-1S95 

ture  of  society.  Politically  free,  the  people  enjoy  liberty 
of  speech  and  action  to  the  fullest  extent.  The  current  of 
popular  feeling  is  so  strong  against  a  mere  profession 
of  religion  that  it  is  hazardous  for  any  one  to  assume  a 
character  which  he  cannot  consistently  sustain.  The  male 
members  of  the  church,  as  Scripture  Readers,  visit  every 
dwelling  in  the  island  once  a  fortnight.  Frequently  these 
devoted  men  are  seen  sitting  beneath  a  palm  tree,  reading 
aloud  the  inspired  Word  to  a  listening  throng.' 

The  peace  and  progress  of  the  island  were  sadly  disturbed 
in  1874  by  the  shipwrecked  crew  of  a  French  whaler.  The 
islanders  had  exerted  themselves  to  save  property  from  the 
wreck,  and  carefully  guarded  it.  In  return  the  Europeans 
gave  themselves  up  to  the  most  hideous  debauchery  and 
outrage,  notwithstanding  Mr.  Royle's  strenuous  efforts  to 
restrain  them.  The  Governor  of  Tahiti  finally  sent  and 
removed  these  disturbers  of  peace  and  morality.  As 
examples  of  the  work  carried  on  quietly  and  effectively 
year  after  year  in  Aitutaki,  and  also  of  what  Christian 
work  would  have  been  in  many  a  Polynesian  island  could 
they  have  been  kept  from  hostile  and  debasing  'civilized' 
influence,  two  pictures  painted  by  Mr.  Royle  are  here  re- 
produced.    The  first  was  drawn  in  1850. 

'  The  church  here  is  indeed  "  like  a  city  set  upon  a  hill," 
it  is  composed  at  present  of  ninety-seven  male  and  ninety- 
three  female  communicants.  Our  first  systematic  efforts 
have  been  with  reference  to  the  young.  These  classes  from 
the  first  formed  the  centre  of  operation,  and  ere  long  they 
became  auxiliaries  with  us  in  our  labours.  Through  their 
means  intelligent  adults  were  brought  under  instruction, 
who,  on  acquiring  a  knowledge  of  letters,  were  advanced  to 
be  teachers  in  our  schools.  These  have  been  long  super- 
seded by  a  more  efficient  body  of  teachers,  of  whom  seventy 
and  upwards  are  engaged  in  conducting  our  children's 
schools,  and  fifty-six  are  pious  and  intelligent  members  of 
the  Church  of  Christ  on  this  island.  From  the  same  source 
eight  others  have  been  accepted  as  fitted  by  their  piety, 
zeal,  and  intelligence  for  teachers  among  their  fellow-men 


HENRY  ROYLE'S    WORK  367 

in  heathen  lands.  Five  are  still  pursuing  their  studies  at 
the  Rarotongan  Institution  ;  three  have  already  gone  forth 
to  their  devoted  toils — one  to  Manihiki,  a  newly  discovered 
heathen  island  ;  another  to  New  Hebrides  ;  while  the  third, 
who  deserves  prominent  mention,  is  Rupe,  a  young  man 
who  was  instrumental  in  saving  the  life  of  ]\Ir.  Heath  on 
the  occasion  of  a  boat  accident  at  Aitutaki.  After  beincr 
very  useful  at  Rarotonga  during  Mr.  Buzacott's  absence, 
he  is  now  sustaining  a  devoted  course  of  evangelical  labour 
at  Atiu,  Mauke.  and  Mitiaro.  Never  were  our  schools  in 
so  prosperous  a  state  as  at  present.  So  eager  is  the  desire 
for  instruction,  that  with  a  view,  to  meet  the  demand,  I  have 
for  two  years  past  had  an  evening  school,  attended  by 
about  ei;^hty  young  men.  Xo  testimony  to  the  consistency 
of  our  church  members — for  the  most  part  composed  of 
young  people  of  both  sexes — can  be  more  satisfactory  than 
the  rare  occurrence  of  any  open  transgression,  and  the 
general  prevalence  of  order  and  happiness  throughout  our 
little  society  ^' 

The  second  picture  was  drawn  four  years  later. 

'  All  the  means  of  grace  are  invariably  well  attended,  and 
on  the  Sabbath  especially  we  have  our  chapel  crowded  to 
excess.  The  riveted  attention,  the  orderly  approach  to.  and 
devout  return  from,  the  courts  of  the  Lord's  house,  bespeak 
the  deep  interest  felt  in  the  theme  of  the  preacher.  The 
church  here  continues  to  increase,  and  the  members  are 
evidently  ripening  in  the  graces  of  the  Spirit,  especially  is 
their  faith  strong  in  that  capital  doctrine  of  the  Bible— the 
great  atonement.  Their  hopes  are  intelligent,  practical,  and 
influential.  The  love  is  expansive  and  exemplified  in  an 
ever-ready  disposition  to  serve  each  other  in  the  Lord. 
The  institutions  of  the  Gospel  are  appreciated  from  in- 
telligent convictions  of  their  Divine  appointment,  and  their 
merciful  adaptation  to  their  spiritual  necessities.  Mrs.  Royle 
has  an  adult  Bible  Class,  conducted  each  Sabbath  day 
during  the  intervals  of  service,  the  attendance  at  which 
averages  140.  There  is  also  a  fortnightly  gathering  of  the 
^  Annual  Report,  1S51,  p.  36. 


368  THE  HERVEY  GROUP:  1S35-1S95 

Christian  mothers  of  our  island  to  pray  for  their  offspring. 
These,  together  with  our  Friday  meetings,  afford  a  rich 
field  of  productive  labour  ;  here  are  utterances  of  the 
deepest  import,  while  listening  to  which  we  are  frequently 
carried  back  to  those  times  when  "they  that  feared  the 
Lord  spake  often  one  to  another,  and  the  Lord  heard 
them " ;  and  occasions  have  not  been  rare  when  we  have 
been  constrained  to  exclaim,  "  Surely  the  Lord  is  in  this 
place."  Only  imagine  a  number  of  young  men,  born  in 
heathenism,  but  educated  under  Christian  influences,  rising 
up  in  orderly  succession  to  address  an  assembly  of  800 
persons,  of  all  ages  and  both  sexes,  on  religious  subjects, 
quoting  largely  from  the  sacred  Scriptures,  and  thus 
attempting  with  humility  to  ascertain  the  stage  of  progress 
which  has  been  obtained  in  the  Divine  life. 

'  It  is  a  matter  of  no  ordinary  gratification  to  me  to  be  in 
receipt  of  very  interesting  communications  from  five  dear 
Aitutakian  youths  of  my  own  school,  now  engaged  as 
evangelists  among  the  western  and  eastern  islands  of  this 
ocean.  Rupe  is  at  Atiu.  I  spent  four  months  there  in 
1852,  and  had  the  pleasure  of  admitting  ninety-five  persons 
to  church  fellowship  ^' 

After  thirty-eight  years  of  successful  toil,  with  only  one 
break — a  visit  to  Sydney  in  1864 — Mr.  Royle  relinquished 
work,   and  retired  to   Sydney  in  April,    1876.      There  in 

1 877,  on  December  4,  Mrs.  Royle  died ;  and  on  February  14, 

1878,  Mr.  Royle  passed  to  bis  rest. 

For  some  years  the  island  was  left  to  the  superintendence 
of  native  teachers,  and  in  1885  the  Rev.  W.  N.  Lawrence 
became  the  resident  missionary,  and  was  in  charge  of  the 
work  there  at  the  end  of  ^^^S- 

4.  The  other  islands  of  the  Hervey  group  are  Atiu, 
Mauke,  and  Mitiaro.  Work  on  Atiu,  distant  1 20  miles 
from  Mangaia,  was  begun,  as  described  on  page  259,  by 
native  teachers.  The  island  was  visited  from  time  to  time 
by  the   missionaries   from   Tahiti,     In    1836    Papeiha  was 

^  Annual  Report,  1855,  p.  26. 


ATIU  369 

sent  from  Rarotonga,  and  remained  there  two  or  three 
years,  instructing  the  people,  and  consolidating  the  work. 
In  1842  the  Rev.  E.  Krause  became  resident  missionary, 
but  after  a  short  stay  his  wife's  health  led  to  his  removal 
to  Tahaa.  From  that  time  the  missionary  work  on  the 
island  has  been  in  the  hands  of  native  teachers,  visited 
occasionally  by  the  resident  missionaries  on  the  neighbouring 
islands.  In  1845  Mr.  William  Gill  visited  Atiu,  and  found 
that  the  native  teacher  placed  there  by  Mr.  Royle  was  suc- 
ceeding very  well.  By  1846  they  had  built  themselves  a 
large  church  of  tamanu,  a  wood  which  resembles  mahogany. 

Tapaeru,  whose  name  is  ever  memorable  in  connexion 
with  the  introduction  of  Christianity  into  Rarotonga,  about 
1820,  had  landed  on  Aitutaki,  and  while  there  had  a  son 
named  Rupe.  When  Tapaeru  accompanied  John  Williams, 
Rupe  remained  behind  with  his  father,  a  chief.  In  later 
years  he  came  under  Mr.  Royle's  influence,  exhibited 
intelligence  and  Christian  character  of  a  high  order,  and 
was  sent  to  Rarotonga  to  be  trained.  In  1846  he  was 
appointed  to  Arorangi,  and  shortly  afterwards  to  Atiu 
as  native  teacher  and  pastor  of  the  church.  Here  he 
laboured  for  many  long  years,  dying  in  1886  at  Rarotonga. 
Mr.  Hutchin  thus  refers  to  him  in  his  report  for  1887  : 
*  He  was  the  first  student  of  the  Rarotongan  Institution. 
After  leaving  he  went  to  Mangaia,  and  then  to  Atiu,  where 
he  laboured  many  years.  It  did  me  much  spiritual  good 
to  visit  him  in  his  last  sickness;  he  was  full  of  Christian 
joy  and  confidence  ;  not  a  cFoud  of  doubt  hid  the  face  of 
his  Saviour  from  him  ;  living  or  dying,  he  was  the  Lord's.' 

The  history  of  Atiu  during  the  last  fifty  years  has  been 
that  of  many  islands  brought  under  Christian  influence,  but 
left,  by  necessity,  largely  to  native  teaching.  All  the 
worst  features  of  heathenism  have  long  disappeared.  There 
has  been  a  steady,  if  slow,  progress,  uplifting  the  people 
in  civilization  and  deepening  their  Christian  life.  At  times 
the  survival  of  heathen  superstition,  drunkenness,  the  in- 
capacity of  the  native  teacher,  have  sorely  hindered  the 
work  ;  but,  on  the  whole,  there  has  been  steady  growth  in 

I.  13  b 


370  THE  HERVEY  GROUP:  1835-1895 

the  right  direction.  The  last  official  (1895)  reference  to  the 
island  is  :  'In  Atiu  there  has  been  a  considerable  accession 
to  the  church.' 

Twenty-seven  miles  east  by  north  of  Atiu  lies  the  barren 
atoll^  of  Mitiaro  ;  and  fifty-five  miles  east  by  south  lies 
the  fertile  islet  of  Mauke.  In  the  earlier  days  of  this  cen- 
tury the  inhabitants  of  these  two  islands  were  most  cruelly 
conquered,  and  many  of  them  devoured  by  the  Atiuans 
under  Roma-tane,  the  ferocious  chieftain  converted  by 
John  Williams  in  1823.  They  followed  Atiu  in  the  recep- 
tion of  Christianity,  and  all  through  the  century  they  have 
been  guided  by  native  teachers,  sent  in  the  first  instance 
from  Tahiti,  and  then  by  native  pastors  trained  at  Raro- 
tonga.  As  it  has  been  impossible  to  spare  resident  mis- 
sionaries for  tiny  islets  like  these,  the  consequent  limitations 
of  the  work  have  had  to  be  borne.  Mr.  Lawrence,  who 
has  from  time  to  time  visited  these  islands,  writing  of 
their  condition  in  1885,  describes  what  has  been  the  con- 
dition of  this  and  similar  Christianized  atolls  for  the  last 
sixty  years : — 

'  Our  teachers  have  done  their  work  conscientiously  and 
well ;  they  have  wrought  according  to  their  ability,  but  we 
want  a  better  class  of  teachers  if  we  are  to  make  progress. 
Their  education  is  too  limited  ;  they  are  too  near  the  level 
of  their  congregations.  The  people  are  growing  more  in 
intelligence  than  in  holiness  ;  their  material  prosperity 
is  more  marked  than  their  spiritual  prosperity ;  yet  I  am 
convinced  that  with  all  the  dr6ss  there  is  much  fine  gold^.' 

From  the  Hervey  Islands  the  Gospel  was  carried  still 
further  to  the  little  group,  600  miles  further  north,  known 
as  the  Penrhyn  Islands.  These  for  the  last  fifty  years 
have  been  out-stations  of  the  Hervey  group.  Three  only, 
Manihiki,  Tongareva  and  Rakaanga  have  native  pastors. 
Manihiki  owed  its  first  imperfect  knowledge  of  Christianity 
to  a  Tahitian  who  had  been  educated  at  a  mission  school, 
and  was  working  as  sailor  on  a  whaler.     His  vessel  touched 

'   A  coral  island,  consisting  of  a  ring-shaped  reef  enclosing  a  lagoon. 
'  Annual  Report,  1888,  p.  219. 


THE  PENRHYN  ISLANDS  371 

at  Manihiki,  and  he  deserted,  relapsed  into  heathenism,  and 
then  taught  the  islanders  what  he  knew  about  God  and  about 
'the  word  and  reign  of  Jesus,  the  Son  of  God.'  In  1849, 
a  large  party  of  the  natives  left  Manihiki  in  canoes  for 
Rakaanga,  thirty  miles  away.  A  storm  swept  down  upon 
them,  drowned  many,  a  few  reached  Rakaanga,  and  the 
rest  in  one  canoe  were  driven  out  to  sea.  After  drifting 
about  for  many  weeks  a  whaler  met  them,  eighty  miles 
from  land,  rescued  fifteen  men  and  four  women  who  were 
half  dead,  and  carried  them  to  the  Hei-vey  Islands  and 
landed  them  on  Manuae,  the  only  island  which  the  captain 
could  make.  There  an  American  runaway  sailor  was  col- 
lecting cocoa-nuts  and  feeding  pigs  for  the  Tahiti  market. 
The  captain  left  these  natives  with  him,  telling  him  to  send 
them  to  Aitutaki  or  Rarotonga  at  the  first  opportunity. 
He  made  them  work  for  him,  and  became  a  kind  of  chief 
over  them.  This  m.an  had  not  wholly  forgotten  his  Christ- 
ianity— he  kept  a  rest  day,  and  having  a  Tahitian  Bible, 
used  to  read  it  to  them,  with  his  gun  in  one  hand,  for  he 
had  not  yet  learned  to  trust  them.  News  of  them  reached 
Aitutaki,  and  a  deacon  was  appointed  to  go  and  visit  them. 
A  trading  schooner  offered  to  take  him,  if  the  natives  at 
Aitutaki  would  ballast  his  vessel.  This  they  did.  and  then 
the  scoundrel  sailed  straight  away  to  Tahiti,  carrying  the 
deacon  with  him.  But  the  John  Williams  was  there,  and 
brought  the  deacon  back  to  Rarotonga,  and  then  went  to 
Manuae  and  brought  the  nativ^es  of  Manihiki  to  Aitutaki. 
There  they  stayed  for  a  fortnight,  mingling  with  the 
Christian  natives,  and  being  instructed  themselves.  Then 
with  two  native  teachers  they  were  taken  by  the  John 
Williams  back  to  Manihiki. 

In  less  than  twelve  months  after  their  return  most  of  the 
idols  were  destroyed,  two  chapels  built,  and  daily  schools 
for  the  children  were  begun.  When,  three  years  later, 
Mr.  William  Gill  visited  them  in  1852,  he  found  'that  the 
greater  part  of  the  young  people  could  read,  and  many  of 
them  had  been  taught  to  write.'  From  that  time  Christian 
work  has  been  steadily  carried  on. 

li  b  2 


372  THE  HERVEY  GROUP:  1835-1895 

One  hundred  and  forty  miles  north-east  of  Manihiki  lies 
Tongareva  or  Penrhyn  Island.  In  1854  three  teachers 
from  the  Rarotongan  Institution  volunteered  to  carry  the 
good  tidings  to  this  remote  spot.  Ever  since  that  date 
the  work  has  been  carried  on  there  by  native  agency,  the 
missionary  ship  calling  once  a  year,  and  bringing  a  Euro- 
pean missionary  who  spends  a  short  time  with  the  people, 
and  exercises  a  general  superintendence  over  the  work. 

Pukapuka,  or  Danger  Island,  to  give  it  the  more  widely 
known  name,  has  since  1857  been  an  out-station  under  the 
care  of  a  native  teacher.  It  was  here  on  May  17,  1863, 
that  the  first  John  Williams  was  wrecked.  In  the  absence 
of  wind  she  was  drifted  upon  the  reef  by  the  strong  current, 
and  dashed  to  pieces  by  the  tremendous  Pacific  surge. 
Happily  no  lives  were  lost. 

The  Hervey  Islands  hold  a  high  place  in  the  record  of 
Polynesian  evangelization.  After  Tahiti  and  its  immediate 
neighbours  they  were  the  first  by  whom  the  glad  tidings 
were  joyfully  accepted  ;  and  by  none  have  more  intelligent, 
persistent,  and  courageous  efforts  been  put  forth  to  hand 
on  to  others  the  glorious  Gospel  of  the  kingdom. 

[AUTHORiTES. — Original  Letters  and  Journals;  Annual  Reports;  Mission 
Life  in  the  Islands  of  the  Pacific  ;  A  Narrative  of  the  Life  attd  Labours  of 
Aaron  Buzacott ;  Gems  from  the  Coral  Islands^  by  William  Gill ;  Myths  and 
Songs  fro77i  the  South  Pacific  ;  Life  in  the  Sotithern  Isles  ;  Savage  Life  in 
Polynesia  ;  Jottings  from  the  Pacific ;  From  Darkness  to  Light  in  Polynesia, 
all  from  the  pen  of  Dr.  Wyatt  Gill ;  and  The  Bible  in  the  Western  Pacific,  by 
A.  W.  Murray.] 


o 


a:  c/5 
o  X 


ir^ 


I 


^;;itl 


l^ 


CJ 


3 


CHAPTER    XI 

SAMOA,    183O-1895 

Samoa  is  the  native  name  of  a  group  of  volcanic  islands, 
formerly  called  Navigators'  Islands,  lying  between  13°  and 
15'  south  latitude,  and  168°  and  173°  west  longitude.  The 
mountains  of  Savaii,  some  of  which  are  4,000  feet  high,  can 
be  seen  for  fifty  miles.  The  principal  islands  of  the  group 
are  Savaii  on  the  west ;  Upolu,  ten  miles  distant,  in  the 
centre ;  and  Tutuila,  forty  miles  to  the  east  of  Upolu. 
They  are  all  extremely  beautiful  and  rich  in  vegetation. 
Upolu  is  almost  surrounded  by  reefs,  at  distances  from  the 
shore  which  vary  from  thirty  feet  to  four  miles. 

Little  was  known  of  these  islands  until  1830,  when  John 
Williams  first  landed  there.  In  1834  Mr.  Charles  Barff  of 
Huahine  came  to  Rarotonga  in  a  schooner  of  fifty  tons 
which  he  had  chartered,  and  taking  on  board  Mr.  Buzacott, 
sailed  away  to  Samoa.  Their  object  was  to  prepare  the  way 
for  the  permanent  work  which  the  Directors  had  resolved  to 
undertake  in  the  group.  The  visits  of  John  Williams,  and 
the  work  of  the  native  teachers  whom  he  had  stationed 
in  the  islands,  had  created  in  the  minds  of  large  numbers 
of  the  natives  a  desire  for  the  new  lotii  or  religion.  So 
powerful  had  this  feeling  become,  that  various  runaway 
sailors  were  induced  by  the  chiefs  to  attempt  the  task,  for 
which  they  were  wholly  incompetent,  of  teaching  them 
the  white  man's  religion. 

'As  the  desire  for  the  new  lotii  (religion)  had  become 
universal,  and  the  natives  supposed  that  these  white  men 


374  SAMOA  :    1830-1895 

who  came  from  the  land  of  the  missionaries  and  the  Bible 
must  understand  it,  chapels  were  erected  at  many  of  the 
villages,  and  these  ignorant  and  in  many  cases  wicked  men 
were  requested  to  act  as  their  instructors,  and  to  conduct 
their  worship.  This  some  of  them  attempted.  The  poor 
people  would  meet  together,  and  the  white  man  would 
ascend  the  pulpit  and  read  to  them  in  English  out  of  any 
book  in  his  possession.  The  natives  did  not  understand 
what  was  read  or  spoken,  yet  these  pretenders  obtained 
a  considerable  influence  over  part  of  the  Samoans,  and  pro- 
ceeded so  far  as  to  baptize,  and  administer  the  sacrament 
of  the  Lord's  Supper  on  Christmas  Day  and  Good  Friday. 
Mr.  Barff  and  Mr.  Buzacott  visited  Savaii,  the  residence 
of  Malietoa,  under  whose  protection  the  native  missionaries 
brought  by  Messrs.  Williams  and  Barff  on  their  first  visit 
to  these  islands  had  been  placed.  Great  progress  had  been 
made  since  that  time.  The  teachers  were  now  preaching 
to  large  numbers  of  converts.  In  rotation  they  visited  all 
the  chiefs  and  people  on  the  island  who  professed  to  be 
willing  to  abandon  idol-worship  and  the  abominable  customs 
connected  therewith,  and  to  become  the  worshippers  of 
Jehovah.  All  the  islands  in  this  group  appeared  ripe  unto 
the  harvest,  but  the  labourers  were  few.  The  resolution 
was  formed  in  Mr.  Buzacott's  mind,  that  on  his  return  to 
Rarotonga  he  would  devote  much  more  time  and  labour 
to  the  training  of  pious  men  and  women  for  the  work  of 
God  among  the  heathen  \* 

One  immediate  result  of  the  visit  of  John  Williams  to 
England  in  1834  was  the  dispatch  in  1835  of  the  first 
party  of  European  missionaries,  six  in  number,  to  the 
Samoan  group— Messrs.  Heath,  Hardie,  Mills,  Macdonald, 
Murray,  and  Barnden.  All  except  the  last  were  married, 
and  accompanied  by  their  wives.  They  took  farewell  of 
the  Directors  on  Oct.  5,  1835,  and  it  is  pleasant  to  note 
that  this  was  the  first  Board  Meeting  held  in  the  new 
premises  in  Blomfield  Street,  whicli  have  ever  since  been 
the  Society's  head-quarters.     Dr.  Pye-Smith  delivered  an 

^  Mission  Life  in  the  Islands  of  the  Pacific,  pp.  ii8,  119. 


FIRST  MISSIONARIES  FOR   SAMOA  375 

address  on  the  new  building  and  its  relation  to  the  work; 
prayer  was  offered  by  G.  Collison,  Dr.  Bennett,  and 
T.  Lewis ;  and  John  Williams  gave  the  missionaries  a 
valedictory  address.  They  sailed  from  Gravesend  in  the 
Dunottar  Castle  on  Nov.  7,  ]  835,  and  reached  Rarotonga 
in  May,  1836.  By  the  request  of  the  Directors,  Messrs. 
Barff  and  Buzacott  accompanied  these  workers  to  Samoa 
and  settled  them  in  their  new  homes.  On  reaching  Tutuila 
they  secured  as  interpreter  Teava,  a  Rarotongan  teacher, 
who  had  been  working  in  the  islands  for  some  years, 
and  stationed  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Murray  at  Pangopango,  and 
Mr.  Barnden  at  Leone  on  Tutuila  ;  and  then  proceeded 
to  Upolu.  Apia  was  reached  on  June  7,  1836,  and  here 
they  found  Mr.  Piatt  from  Raiatea,  and  Samuel  Wilson, 
son  of  C.  Wilson  of  Tahiti,  who  at  the  request  of  the 
Directors  had  visited  Samoa  to  prepare  the  way  for  the 
permanent  workers,  and  who  had  been  actively  engaged 
in  this  service  since  September,  1835.  Mr.  Piatt  soon 
returned  to  Raiatea;  and  in  1839  Mr.  Wilson  left  the 
Society.  At  Apia  the  principal  chiefs  assembled  and 
pledged  themselves  to  protect  the  missionaries  and  their 
property,  and  to  regard  them  as  neutrals  in  time  of  war,  to 
be  respected  equally  by  both  parties.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Mills 
made  Apia  their  home,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Heath  went  to 
Manono.  Savaii  was  next  visited,  Mr.  Hardie  being 
stationed  at  Sapapalii.  Mr.  Macdonald,  who  had  remained 
in  Rarotonga,  reached  Savaii  in  April,  and  settled  at 
Safune  in  August,  1837.  All  these  missionaries  were 
plunged  at  once  into  hard  and  congenial  labour.  The 
natives  were  eager  to  be  taught,  and  it  was  computed  that 
by  1838  not  less  than  23,000  were  under  instruction. 

It  was  not  to  be  supposed  that  John  Williams  would 
forget  his  children  in  the  faith  at  Samoa,  and  among  the 
band  of  missionaries  conveyed  in  the  Camden,  which 
reached  Tutuila  in  November,  1838,  were  three  for  Samoa 
— Mr.  Day,  who  settled  at  Falefa  in  Upolu  ;  Mr.  J.  h. 
Stair,  a  printer,  who  set  up  his  press  at  P'alelatai,  Upolu  ; 
and  Mr.  E.  Buchanan,  a  normal  schoolmaster,  who  began 


37^  SAMOA  :   1830-1895 

work  at  Falealili.  Christian  churches  were  soon  organized 
in  the  group:  at  Sapapalii  in  1837,  on  Manono  and  Upolu 
in  T838,  and  on  Tutuila  in  1839. 

While  the  Camden  went  on  to  the  Hervey  and  the 
Society  Islands,  Mrs.  Williams  resided  at  Fasitootai,  carry- 
ing on  missionary  work  there.  Mr.  Williams  returned  on 
May  2,  1839.  For  the  next  six  months  he  gave  himself  to 
evangelistic  work  in  Upolu  and  Savaii,  and  in  preparing 
for  his  intended  voyage  to  the  islands  yet  in  darkness.  The 
Camden  returned  from  the  Society  Islands  on  October  26, 
bringing  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Pratt,  and  Mr.  Harris,  a  gentle- 
man who,  having  visited  Polynesia  for  his  health,  had 
become  so  interested  in  mission  work  that  he  wished  to 
devote  himself  entirely  to  it,  and  for  this  end  purposed 
visiting  England  and  offering  his  services  to  the  Society. 
November  3,  1839,  the  last  Sunday  before  starting  on  his 
eagerly  longed-for  voyage  to  the  New  Hebrides,  John 
Williams  spent  with  his  wife  at  Fasitootai.  As  the  text 
of  his  farewell  address,  the  veteran  explorer  selected 
Acts  XX.  36-38.  On  November  5  the  Camden  sailed. 
Mr.  Williams  carried  with  him  twelve  native  teachers, 
whom  he  intended  to  land  at  such  islands  as  were  willing 
to  receive  them,  trusting  God  would  enable  them  to  rival 
the  deeds  of  those  first  landed  on  Samoa.  On  Nov.  12 
the  Camden  touched  at  Rotuma,  Mr.  Williams  thinking 
he  might  possibly  find  there  some  natives  from  New  Cale- 
donia or  the  New  Hebrides  whom  he  might  induce  to  go 
with  him.  In  this  he  was  disappointed,  and  after  landing 
two  Manono  men  as  teachers,  the  chief  having  promised  to 
protect  them,  the  Camden  pursued  her  voyage  westwards. 
On  November  17  Futuna  was  reached,  Mr.  Williams  landed, 
and  one  of  the  islanders  was  induced  to  come  on  board,  but 
no  teacher  could  be  spared.  The  next  day  the  Camden 
was  off  Tanna,  and  Mr.  Williams'  journal  ends  abruptly 
with  the  following  words  in  his  own  handwriting,  written 
probably  that  evening.  *  This  is  a  memorable  day,  a  day 
which  will  be  transmitted  to  posterity,  and  the  record  of 
the  events  which  have  this  day  transpired  will  exist  after 


DEATH  OF  JOHN   WILLIAMS  377 

those  who  have  taken  an  active  part  in  them  have  retired 
into  the  shades  of  oblivion,  and  the  results  of  this  day  will 

be '     Here  the  active  hand  ceased  writing,  the  writer 

little  thinking  that  the  sentence  would  never  be  finished. 

Mr.  Williams  had  a  very  deep  sense  of  the  importance 
of  the  work  he  was  now  trying  to  initiate.  A  landing  had 
been  made  upon  Tanna,  November  18,  the  day  referred  to 
in  his  journal,  and  the  natives  had  been  very  eager  for 
barter.  Three  teachers,  Lalolago,  Salamea,  and  Mose,  had 
been  designated  for  the  island.  They  were  introduced  to 
the  chiefs,  who  seemed  pleased  on  hearing  that  they  were 
to  stay.  The  teachers  were  left  on  shore  for  the  night  to 
see  how  the  natives  behaved.  This  experiment  proved 
satisfactory,  and  on  November  19  the  Camden  went  on 
her  way.  The  story  of  the  next  day  has  become  one  of 
the  famous  pages  in  missionary  story.  The  Camden  hove 
to  off  Erromanga  all  the  night  of  November  19.  On  the 
morning  of  November  20  in  Dillon's  Bay,  at  the  request  of 
Mr.  Williams,  the  whale  boat  was  lowered,  Captain  Morgan 
and  Mr.  Cunningham  with  four  hands  going  in  it,  together 
with  Mr.  Williams  and  Mr.  Harris.  They  passed  a  canoe 
in  the  bay  containing  four  natives.  Their  language  was 
strange,  and  they  were  wild  and  shy,  and  Mr.  Williams 
failed  in  his  efforts  by  presents  to  induce  them  to  come 
into  his  boat.  The  whale  boat  then  rowed  up  to  the  head 
of  the  bay,  and  the  natives  on  the  shore  were  also  shy, 
and  beckoned  to  them  to  go  away.  Mr.  Harris  landed 
first,  and  then  Mr.  Williams,  and  although  the  natives 
were  not  very  friendly,  there  was  nothing  to  excite  alarm. 
Shortly  afterwards  a  sudden  attack  was  made.  Mr.  Harris 
first  fell ;  Mr.  Williams  reached  the  beach,  but  was  clubbed 
to  death  under  the  eyes  of  Captain  Morgan  and  his  boat's 
crew,  who  were  horrified,  but  powerless  to  aid  him.  The 
bodies  were  carried  off  by  the  natives  and  consumed. 

Thus  closed  one  of  the  most  conspicuous  missionary  lives 
of  the  century,  in  a  manner  which,  considered  in  the  light  of 
the  marvellous  career  of  John  Williams,  could  hardly  have 
been   more   fitting.     Energetic,   impetuous,  able   to  gauge 


378  SAMOA  :    1S30-1895 

affairs  accurately,  he  had  not  been  long  on  Tahiti  first,  and 
then  on  Raiatea  before  he  saw  what  ought  to  be  done,  and  set 
himself  strenuously  to  do  it.  He  was  likely  to  be  misunder- 
stood by  slower  workers  ;  and  misrepresented  by  those  who 
easily  fall  into,  and  willingly  stay  in,  the  well-worn  grooves 
of  action  and  thought.  The  later  years  of  his  life  verified 
the  truthfulness  of  his  famous  assertion  :  '  I  cannot  content 
myself  within  the  narrow  limits  of  a  single  reef.'  With 
the  Hervey  and  Samoan  groups  his  name  is  linked  for 
ever,  and  if,  in  the  good  providence  of  God,  such  a  career 
was  destined  to  come  to  an  early  termination,  how  better 
could  he  have  fallen  than  with  his  heart  full  of  love  for  the 
miserable  dwellers  in  the  islands  still  in  the  gross  darkness 
of  savagery  and  cruelty  and  debasing  superstitions,  and 
his  brain  ceaselessly  active  with  schemes  for  their  uplifting 
and  spiritual  blessing !  The  years  of  toil  at  Raiatea,  the 
daring  and  courage  of  the  voyage  which  brought  Rarotonga 
to  liffht,  the  extraordinarv  enthusiasm  he  aroused  in  Great 
Britain,  the  perils  he  had  faced  for  so  many  years,  were 
fittingly  consummated  when  the  Master  let  fall  upon  him 
the  awful  but  ennobling  crown  of  the  martyr. 

Samoa  has  exhibited  few  of  those  sensational  episodes 
or  outstanding  personalities  which  impress  the  imagination 
and  captivate  the  general  reader.  From  1835  to  1^9.5 
the  record  was  one  of  diligent  service,  of  progress  often 
retarded,  but  never  wholly  checked,  and  always  towards 
a  higher  level  of  life  and  practice,  and  of  growth  in  religious 
knowledge  and  in  civilization.  The  mission  includes  three 
large  and  several  small  islands,  and  possesses  many  sepa- 
rate stations,  each  of  which  has  been  served  by  a  succession 
of  able  and  consecrated  workers.  To  give  the  story  of 
this  work  in  such  detail  as  would  do  full  justice  to  the 
results  achieved  and  the  men  who  obtained  them,  and  at 
the  same  time  to  control  and  enchain  the  attention,  would 
require  a  volume.  Nor,  on  the  other  hand,  is  it  possible  to 
do  full  justice  to  the  religious  beliefs,  the  social  customs, 
and  the  attractive  features  of  character  and  daily  life  of  the 
Samoans  under  both  heathenism   and    Christianity.     Our 


CHIEF  STATIONS   IN  SAMOA  379 

aim  must  be  humbler,  contenting  itself  with  giving  a  clear 
but  concise  sketch  of  the  growth  of  Christian  life  and 
civilization  ;  of  the  chief  hindrances  to  this  growth,  notably 
the  native  love  of  warfare  ;  and  of  the  remarkable  edu- 
cational work  steadily  carried  on  in  Samoa,  which  has 
resulted  in  missionary  work  of  a  high  order  in  Samoa  itself, 
in  the  New  Hebrides,  the  Loyalty  Islands,  Savage  Island, 
and  in  New  Guinea.  The  reader  desirous  of  minute  details, 
either  concerning  the  history  of  the  mission  or  the  beliefs 
and  habits  and  customs  of  Samoa,  can  obtain  these  by 
consulting  Dr.  Turner's  Ninetee7i  Years  in  Polynesia  (\'^6\)^ 
his  Samoa  a  Hundred  Years  Ago  and  Long  Before  (1884), 
Mr.  A.  W.  Murray's  Forty  Years'  Mission  Work  in  Polyjiesia 
(1876),  and  Mr.  J.  B.  Stair's  Old  Samoa  (1897). 

By  J  840  the  three  main  islands,  Upolu,  Savaii,  and 
Tutuila,  had  been  covered  with  a  network  of  mission 
stations.  At  the  chief  point  in  each  district  a  European 
missionary  resided,  and  from  that  centre  he  itinerated  and 
sought  to  evangelize  the  different  villages  and  groups  of 
natives — often  very  numerous  in  his  district.  Preaching, 
education  of  both  young  and  old,  instruction  in  such  of  the 
arts  and  crafts  of  civilization  as  the  natives  could  be  induced 
to  learn  and  the  missionaries  were  competent  to  teach,  and 
rudimentary  medical  practice  filled,  and  more  than  filled, 
the  busy  toiler's  days.  The  rate  of  Christian  progress 
varied.  In  Tutuila,  furthest  removed  from  native  politics 
and  from  contact  w^ith  foreign  vessels,  it  was  more  rapid 
and  more  abiding.  In  Upolu  the  distractions  of  warfare  and 
the  vices  of  civilization  were  more  constant  and  more  power- 
ful hindrances  to  Christian  work.  But  the  sixty  years  which 
have  passed  since  the  mission  was  fairly  organized,  contain, 
when  justly  and  wisely  viewed,  a  marvellous  record  of  work 
done  in  all  the  islands,  of  a  whole  people  uplifted  in 
the  scale  of  civilization,  of  multitudes  brought  to  a  saving 
knowledge  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

As  a  good  illustration — one  out  of  many — we  may  select 
Tutuila.  On  July  i,  1838,  Mr.  A.  W.  Murray  constituted 
a  Christian   church  there  by  observing  the  Lord's  Supper 


380  SAMOA  :    1830-1895 

with  three  natives — Pomare,  Pita,  and  Fauvasa — whom 
he  believed  to  have  truly  come  under  the  influence  of 
the  Gospel.  The  first  of  these  men  in  1840  went  as 
teacher  to  Tanna,  and  there  died  soon  after  from  exposure, 
and  from  hard  work  for  Christ's  sake  among  those  turbu- 
lent savaoes.  Fauvasa  went  to  New  Caledonia,  and  after 
carrying  on  there  the  work  of  a  teacher,  unsuccessful 
through  no  fault  of  his  own,  returned  to  Tutuila,  where 
he  died  a  few  years  later.  Pita  went  to  Tanna  after 
Pomare,  his  brother-in-law,  had  died  there,  was  '  in  perils 
oft/  and  finally  had  to  flee  to  Aneiteum.  There,  in  1 846,  it 
was  chiefly  /lis  resolution  which  kept  the  teachers  from 
abandoning  the  island  altogether ;  and  there  he  faithfully 
toiled  till  in  i860  he  returned  once  more  to  Tutuila.  He 
died  in  1870. 

From  the  date  of  its  formation  this  church  on  Tutuila 
continued  steadily  to  grow,  and  in  1839  a  very  remarkable 
religious  awakening  began  among  the  natives  at  Pango- 
pango,  the  beautiful  landlocked  harbour  on  the  south  coast, 
where  Mr.  Murray  was  stationed.  Much  prayer  had 
preceded  this  great  movement,  and  it  resulted  in  the  con- 
version of  a  very  large  number  of  the  natives.  During  the 
years  1840,  1841,  and  1842  the  influence  of  this  movement 
was  very  powerful,  and  its  impress  has  remained  upon  the 
subsequent  life  of  the  island. 

In  1843  the  missionaries  were  distributed  through  the 
group  as  follows.  On  Savaii :  at  Sapapalii  Mr.  Charles 
Hardie,  at  Palauli  Mr.  A.  Macdonald,  at  Salailua  Mr. 
Chisholm,  at  Matautu  Mr.  George  Pratt,  at  Falealupo 
Mr.  George  Drummond.  On  Upolu  :  at  Apia  Mr.  W.  Mills, 
at  Sagana  Mr.  W.  Day,  at  Lepa  Mr.  Harbutt,  at  Leulu- 
moenga  Mr.  Stair  the  printer,  and  in  the  same  district 
Mr.  Nisbet,  at  Vaiee  Mr.  Turner.  The  last  two  had  been 
compelled  to  relinquish  the  attempt  to  found  a  mission  in 
the  New  Hebrides,  on  the  island  of  Tanna.  On  Manono  : 
Mr.  Heath.  On  Tutuila:  Mr.  Murray  and  Mr.  Bullen. 
Manua,  the  little  group  of  three  islands,  the  most  easterly 
of  Samoa,  was   under  the   charge  of  a   European   named 


INTER-TRIBAL    IVARS  381 

Matthew  Hunkin,  a  very  useful  worker,  but  not  on  the 
Society's  regular  staff.  Not  unfrequently  in  different 
parts  of  the  world  valuable  service  has  been  rendered  by 
Europeans  who  have  been  converted  by,  or  who  have 
received  benefit  from,  the  Society's  missionaries ;  or  who. 
resident  in  those  regions,  have  been  constrained  to  give 
time  and  labour  to  the  service  of  their  fellow-men. 

During  the  year  these  brethren  laboured  at  their  respec- 
tive stations.  Twice  every  twelve  months  they  gathered 
together^  usually  at  Apia,  for  conference  and  for  consulta- 
tion upon  matters  affecting  the  mission  as  a  whole.  Upon 
the  recommendations  of  this  General  or  District  Com- 
mittee the  action  of  the  Directors  in  London  was  usually 
based. 

The  chief  hindrance  in  Samoa  to  the  progress  of  the 
Gospel,  apart  from  those  common  to  the  hearts  of  all  men. 
savage  and  civilized,  has  been  the  native  practice  and  love 
of  warfare.  Inter-tribal  wars  were  almost  incessant  in 
heathen  days,  and  even  Christianity  has  only  partially 
succeeded  in  restraining  the  excesses  and  the  frequency 
of  these  conflicts.  In  1848  a  civil  war  broke  out  which 
lasted  seven  years.  It  gradually  drew  into  its  whirlpool 
the  greater  part  of  Upolu  and  Savaii.  This  not  only 
tended  to  revivify  heathenism,  but  also  drew  back  into 
savagery  some  of  those  who  had  become  Christians,  and 
threw  great  obstacles  in  the  way  of  all  missionary  work. 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  struggle  peace  was  maintained 
for  a  few  years.  Mission  work  went  steadily  forward,  and 
as  Christianity  strengthened  its  hold  upon  the  people, 
here,  as  elsewhere  in  the  Pacific,  commerce  followed  the 
Gospel.  Apia,  which  in  1830  was  without  a  single  European 
resident,  had  by  1870  become  a  considerable  port,  and 
was  in  1895  one  of  the  chief  trading  stations  in  Polynesia. 
Here  as  elsewhere,  to  the  reproach  of  civilization,  this  closer 
contact  with  the  outside  world  has  tended  to  make  mis- 
sionary work  more  difficult.  In  1869  war  broke  out  afresh. 
Shortly  after  the  termination  of  the  earlier  struggles, 
Malictoa,  King  of  Tuamasanga,  died,  and  the  chiefs,  upon 


3^2  SAMOA  :    1S30-1S95 

whose  votes  the  choice  of  a  successor  depended,  were 
divided  between  MaHetoa's  brother,  Pe'a,  and  his  son, 
Laupepa.  Finally  it  was  decided  to  allow  both  to  use  the 
title  Mah'etoa,  and  under  these  conditions  Samoa  was 
governed  until  early  in  1868.  Meanwhile  a  code  of  laws 
had  been  adopted,  a  parliament  established,  commerce  had 
increased,  and  Apia  had  become  so  largely  the  centre  of 
trade  and  European  influence  that  the  seat  of  native 
government  was  transferred  thither  from  Malie,  the  ancient 
residence  of  the  Malietoa  dynasty. 

Soon  after  this  transference  Pe'a  was  deposed,  and 
Laupepa  proclaimed  the  one  Malietoa  and  King  of  Tuama- 
sanga.  Pe'a  with  his  adherents  took  up  his  residence  at 
Mulinuu,  on  the  west  side  of  Apia  Bay,  and  there  gradually 
his  adherents  from  Manono  and  three  districts  of  Savaii 
congregated.  The  leading  men  of  Atua  and  Aana  came 
together  nominally  to  mediate,  but  in  reality  to  establish 
a  new  government  for  the  whole  of  Upolu,  Manono,  and 
Savaii.  Laupepa's  party  urged  delay,  and  a  futuie  meeting 
of  all  the  states  to  consider  the  question  of  a  union. 
Finally  Manono,  Savaii,  with  Atua  and  Aana  formed 
a  union  of  seven  states,  and  ignoring  Laupepa,  began  a  new 
government  at  Mulinuu.  Laupepa  at  once  drove  the  union 
party  out  of  Mulinuu.  The  result  was  war,  and  Laupepa's 
party  were  in  March^  1869,  beaten.  They  fled,  some  to 
Tuamasanga  and  some  to  Aana,  fifteen  miles  west  of  Apia. 
The  decisive  engagement  was  fought  on  a  Sunday,  the 
first  instance  of  a  battle  on  that  day  since  the  introduction 
of  Christianity.  The  struggle  which  ensued  went  against 
the  unionist  party,  and  in  August,  1870,  a  successful 
attempt  at  mediation  was  made  by  the  missionaries. 
Messrs.  Murray,  Powell,  Whitmee,  and  W.  G.  Lawes  of  the 
London  Society  ;  Messrs.  Brown  and  Wallis  of  the  Wesleyan 
Society:  Captain  Fowler  of  the  John  Williams,  J.  C. 
Williams,  son  of  John  Williams,  British  Consul  in  Samoa, 
and  Mr.  George  Pritchard,  son  of  the  old  missionary  of  that 
name,  met  the  chiefs  of  both  parties.  This  attempt,  though 
partially  successful,  did  not  put  a  stop  to  hostilities,  and  it 


RECENT  CIVIL    WARS  383 

was  not  until  May,  1^73,  that  peace  was  restored,  and  then 
only  for  a  time. 

Of  these  inter-tribal  wars  no  less  than  ten,  according 
to  the  native  reckoning,  have  taken  place  since  1830. 
During  that  long  period  no  one  chief  has  succeeded  in 
obtaining  and  wielding  supreme  power  in  the  islands.  The 
clan  feeling  and  the  peculiarities  of  Samoan  clan  life  tend 
to  render  peace  and  security  much  less  stable  than  is 
consistent  with  steady  progress.  Since  1880  three  of  the 
great  powers.  England,  Germany,  and  the  United  States, 
have  taken  an  ever-increasing  interest  in  Samoan  affairs, 
and  exerted  more  and  more  influence  upon  them.  They 
have  supported  Malietoa,and  yet  even  their  support  has  not 
so  far  done  much  to  diminish  civil  strife.  In  August,  1H87, 
the  German  Government  deposed  Malietoa,  having  de- 
manded from  him  a  fine  of  Si 3,000  as  compensation  for 
some  alleged  thieving  by  the  natives  from  German  subjects. 
He  was  transported  to  the  Cameroons  in  Africa,  and  there 
kept  in  exile.  A  renewed  outbreak  of  civil  war  followed. 
Unwillingness  on  the  part  of  other  great  powers  to  allow 
any  one  nation  to  become  dominant  in  the  islands  led  to 
negotiations,  which  resulted  in  the  signing  at  Berlin  in 
June,  1888,  of  a  convention  by  which  Germany,  England, 
and  the  United  States  bound  themselves  to  preserve  the 
autonomy  of  Samoa,  and  to  combine  their  influence  for  the 
establishment  of  good  and  stable  government.  On  April  28, 
1890,  the  convention  was  accepted  by  Malietoa,  who  had 
previously  been  restored  to  Samoa.  The  conflict,  so  far  as 
the  natives  were  concerned,  had  been  embittered  by  the 
fact  that  while  Malietoa  had  been  a  constant  adherent  of 
the  Society,  his  great  rival,  Mataafa,  had  embraced  Roman 
Catholicism.  Even  this  convention  has  not  been  sufficient  to 
put  an  end  to  the  native  wars.  In  1  894  the  islands  were  again 
embroiled  in  civil  war,  in  which  some  of  the  worst  features 
of  heathenism  reappeared.  Yet  the  opinion  of  so  com- 
petent an  observer  as  the  Rev.  J.  E.  Newell  is  that  'the 
whole  of  the  ten  wars  which  have  proved  so  great  a 
hindrance    to    the    progress  of   Christian    intelligence   and 


384  SAMOA  :   1830-1895 

Christian  life  have  probably  not  resulted  in  the  bloodshed 
and  cruelty  which  characterized  the  great  war  of  vengeance 
and  extermination  which  was  raging  in  the  district  of  Aana 
when  John  WilHams  first  arrived  in  Samoa  ^.* 

Whenever  that  glad  event  for  Samoa  comes  to  pass — 
the  establishment  of  a  stable  government  securely  based 
upon  the  support  of  the  vast  majority  of  the  people — the 
good,  solid,  long-sustained  Christian  work  which  has  been 
accomplished  there  must  bear  rich  fruit  in  the  progress  and 
development  of  the  national  life. 

The  all-important  work  of  translating  the  Bible  into 
Samoan  was  begun  in  1835  by  George  Piatt  and  Samuel 
Wilson,  the  latter  preparing  a  version  of  the  Gospel  of 
Matthew.  In  1837  2,000  copies  of  this  Gospel  were 
printed  by  Charles  Barff,  at  Huahine,  and  sent  to  Samoa. 
Imperfect  as  it  doubtless  was,  the  aid  it  gave  to  the  large 
band  of  new  missionaries  was  of  the  highest  possible  value. 
This  part  of  the  work  was  deemed  so  important  that  in 
1836,  even  before  the  first  band  of  missionaries  sent  from 
England  reached  the  islands,  the  New  Testament  had  been 
apportioned  among  them  for  translation.  An  abridgement 
of  the  Gospels  and  Acts  called  *  A  New  Testament  Scrip- 
ture History,'  was  prepared  and  printed  at  Rarotonga. 

Mr.  Stair  was  compelled  to  leave  Samoa  through  the 
failure  of  his  health  in  1845.  But  he  finally  settled  in 
Victoria,  and  for  nearly  fifty  years  was  a  minister  of  the 
Episcopal  Church  in  that  colony.  Only  a  few  months 
before  his  death,  in  1898,  he  sent  to  the  author  the  follow- 
ing account  of  the  mission  press  which  he  established  at 
Falelatai,  and  over  which  he  skilfully  presided  for  seven 
years : — 

*  Although  the  Camden  reached  Samoa  on  Nov.  27,  1 838, 
it  was  several  months  before  the  press  and  printing  material 
reached  us  from  Sydney,  where  it  had  been  detained  for 
the  return  voyage  of  the  Camden.  At  length,  when  all 
was  ready,  and  the  printing  office  floored  and  put  in  order 
for  its  reception  in  May,  1839,  the  entire  plant  was  brought 

'  Founders'  Week  Convention  Report,  p.  43. 


A.  W.  Murray 
I  Samoa) 


Thomas  Powell 
(Samoa,\ 


George  Pratt 
(Samoa) 


Captain  Morgan 
(Th  •  Camf!c;n; 


Ruatoka 
(New  Guinea) 


STAIR'S  PRESS  AT  FALELATAI  385 

safely  to  Falelatai,  Captain  Morgan  himself  coming  in 
charge  of  the  precious  cargo,  and  landing  the  whole  safely 
to  our  great  joy  and  thankfulness.  The  whole  settlement 
rang  with  shouts  and  songs  of  welcome  from  the  natives  as 
they  bore  aloft  on  their  shoulders  the  heavy  packages  of 
material,  and  the  strongly  bound  massive  iron  framework 
of  the  Albion  press  itself. 

*  Two  young  Samoan  lads,  who  had  gone  to  Sydney  in 
a  whaler,  returned  with  us  to  Samoa  in  the  Camden,  on 
her  first  voyage,  as  part  of  the  crew.  I  engaged  them  as 
servants  and  assistants  in  the  office,  where  they  proved  of 
great  value,  and  formed  the  nucleus  of  my  first  printing 
staff.  Others  gathered  around  me,  so  that  I  quickly 
formed  an  efficient  staff  of  native  assistants.  Every  day, 
as  the  work  progressed,  the  few  natives  who  were  privileged 
to  attend  and  watch  our  progress  looked  on  with  interest 
and  surprise  at  the  different  operations,  making  many 
comments,  and  waiting  eagerly  for  the  time  when  the 
lomi  ttisi^  or  "  book  presser,"  should  begin  work.  The 
distribution  of  the  type  in  the  cases  in  the  usual  irregular 
manner,  at  first  greatly  puzzled  them,  and  when  the  pae- 
tusi,  or  placing  the  separate  types  in  the  composing  stick, 
commenced,  when  the  lines  were  adjusted,  and  paragraphs 
and  columns  formed,  their  astonishment  and  delight  was 
great.  But  even  this  was  exceeded  as  the  different  pages 
were  arranged,  and  the  whole  adjusted  and  made  secure  in 
the  "  forme."  Their  astonishment  still  more  increased  when 
the  first  sheet  was  printed  and  the  press  "proof"  produced 
on  July  18,  1839,  and  the  actual  work  of  the  iojni  tusi 
begun. 

'  The  news  soon  spread,  and  crowds  came  to  sec  the 
wonder.  When  the  native  lads  became  more  skilful,  and 
able  to  work  the  press  themselves,  it  was  an  amusing  scene 
to  look  upon  them,  surrounded  by  a  number  of  their 
countrymen  and  countrywomen,  keenly  watching  them 
and  cheering  them  with  frequent  expressions  of  delight. 
Some  looked  on  in  wonder,  with  eyes  and  mouth  open  ; 
others  gazed  in  silent  astonishment,  whilst  many  showed 

I.  C  c 


386  SAMOA  :    1SS0-1S95 

their  pleasure  and  approval  by  such  expressions  as  tama 
popoto,  e,  tama  popoto,  e  (clever  boys,  Oh  !  clever  boys), 
the  girls  especially  being  loud  in  their  praises  of  the 
skill  of  the  workmen,  who  in  return  redoubled  their  efforts 
to  please.  Everything  about  the  press  was  carefully 
examined  and  scrutinized,  its  marvels  dilated  upon,  and  its 
importance  gladly  recognized.  Its  doings  were  talked  of 
far  and  near.  Boat  and  canoe  songs  were  composed  in  its 
honour,  and  in  after  years,  as  the  different  portions  of  the 
Scriptures  were  issued  from  the  press,  it  became  known  by 
the  appropriate  and  significant  title  of  '"  The  Spring  from 
whence  the  Word  of  God  flows  throughout  Samoa,  in  its 
length  and  breadth,"  and  was  valued  accordingly. 

*  Although  the  press  had  been  waited  for  so  long,  when 
it  did  actually  come  there  was  a  great  dearth  of  copy,  no 
one  portion  of  the  Scriptures  being  ready  to  send  to  the 
press.  Much  of  the  New  Testament  had  been  translated 
and  revised,  but  even  after  many  careful  revisions,  it  was 
felt  by  the  missionaries  that  still  further  careful  and 
anxious  thought  was  essential  to  ensure  accuracy  in  the 
sacred  Scriptures.  The  delay  was  much  regretted,  but  it 
was  felt  better  to  go  slowly  than  to  issue  an  imperfect 
translation.  And  no  one,  cognizant  of  the  difficulties  of 
the  language,  will  question  the  wisdom  of  this  decision. 

'  In  the  absence  of  any  portion  of  the  sacred  Scriptures 
other  useful  booklets  were  prepared  and  published.  The 
first  booklet  issued  from  the  Samoan  Press  was  an  edition 
of  5, coo  of  O  le  Tala  i  Lotu  eseese,  or  A  Talk  about  different 
Religions^  a  short  treatise,  designed  to  give  help  to  the 
Samoans  in  their  troubles  and  perplexities,  caused  by  the 
contentions  of  the  different  religious  bodies,  and  the  con- 
fusions arising  out  of  this  unfortunate  invasion  of  previous 
unity  and  peace.  The  Samoan  Christians  gladly  welcomed 
the  little  pamphlet. 

'  This  was  followed  by  the  first  number  of  a  useful  little 
magazine,  O  le  Sulu  Samoa^  or  The  Samoan  Torch,  which 
was  published  in  1839  and  continued  ever  since.  Avery 
useful  little  book  was  printed  in  1840,  entitled  The  History 


THE    TRANSLATION  OF   THE  BIBLE  387 

of  Jesus  and  his  Apostles,  which  was  eagerly  sought  after 
and  dihgently  read  by  the  natives  throughout  the  Islands. 
This  indeed  was  the  case  with  all  the  books  and  publica- 
tions issued  from  the  Samoan  Press  during  the  years  I  had 
charge  of  it.  When  I  left  the  Islands,  at  the  close  of 
I1S45,  there  had  been  issued  from  the  Samoan  Press 
*'•  79,coo  copies  of  the  principal  portions  of  the  New 
Testament,  with  numerous  other  publications  such  as 
Hymn  Books,  Catechisms,  Spelling  Books,  A  Life  of 
Christ,  Sermons,  &c.,  amounting  together  to  7,721,000 
pages  of  useful  reading  matter,  which  were  scattered 
throughout  the  different  Islands." 

'  The  first  portion  of  the  sacred  Scriptures  that  issued 
from  the  Samoan  Press  was  the  Gospel  of  St.  John,  of 
which  5.0C0  copies  were  printed  in  1841.  This  was 
followed  by  to,cco  copies  each  of  St.  Mark,  St.  Luke. 
The  Acts,  Romans,  1st  Corinthians,  and  Galatians,  with 
6,cco  copies  of  2nd  Corinthians.  1st  and  2nd  Thessalonians, 
and  Revelations. 

'After  my  return  to  England  (in  1849)  the  British  and 
Foreign  Bible  Society  printed  a  later  and  more  fully  re- 
vised edition  of  the  whole  New  Testament,  which  I  had 
the  great  pleasure  of  supervising  and  carrying  through  the 
press.' 

The  15,000  copies  of  which  this  edition  consisted  were 
invoiced  to  the  mission  at  i^i.388  135.  6d.  The  whole  of 
this  sum  was  in  due  time  remitted  to  the  Bible  Society 
from  the  proceeds  of  sales  to  the  natives. 

The  version  of  the  Old  Testament  was  completed  in 
1855.  Hardly  had  it  been  finished  when  Mr.  Nisbet  and 
Mr.  George  Pratt  were  appointed  to  superintend  a  thorough 
and  complete  revision  of  the  whole  Samoan  Bible.  Dr. 
Turner,  while  in  England  in  i860,  saw  this  edition  through 
the  press,  and  the  Bible  Society  printed  10,000  copies. 
These  were  sold  at  seven  or  nine  shillings  a  copy,  the 
more  expensive  books  being  bound  in  calf.  By  1867  these 
were  all  sold,  and  the  Bible  Society  was  asked  to  prepare 
and  stereotype  a  new  edition.      In  view  of  this  a  second 

C  c  2 


388  SAMOA  :   1S30-1S95 

careful  revision  was  made  by  Mr.  Pratt  and  Mr.  Murray ; 
Dr.  Turner  and  the  Rev.  S.  J.  Whitmee  acting  as  referees 
in  matters  of  difficulty.  This  revision  was  completed  in 
1870.  Meanwhile  the  Bible  Society  had  printed  a  large 
type  edition  of  the  New  Testament  and  the  Psalms.  Two 
other  large  editions  of  the  whole  Bible  have  also  been 
issued;  and  in  1886  20,000  copies  of  a  small  handy  edition 
were  printed.  All  of  these  editions  have  been  readily 
purchased  by  the  Samoan  people. 

While  many  willingly  and  lovingly  contributed  their 
share  of  toil  in  the  Samoan  translation  of  the  Scriptures, 
to  Mr.  George  Pratt  belonged  the  chief  honour,  and  to  his 
remarkable  linguistic  skill  and  diligent  scholarship  much 
of  its  great  excellence  was  due.  Mr.  Pratt  reached  Samoa 
in  1838,  laboured  there  for  forty-one  years,  and  died  at 
Sydney  in  1894.  Mr.  S.  J.  Whitmee,  an  old  colleague 
and  friend,  and  one  most  competent  to  form  a  judgment, 
thus  wrote  of  him  :  '  Mr.  Pratt  was  a  specialist.  He  was 
a  born  linguist,  and  he  faithfully  used  and  cultivated  his 
special  talent  in  the  service  of  Christ.  To  him,  more  than 
to  any  other  person,  although  several  rendered  efficient 
aid,  the  excellence  of  the  Samoan  version  of  the  Scriptures 
is  due.  I  think  I  may  say  he  did  more  than  all  the  rest 
put  together.  The  translation,  and  then  the  revision  of  the 
Samoan  Bible,  was  the  great  work  of  his  life.  To  this  he 
devoted  almost  daily  attention  for  many  years,  with  the 
result  that  the  Samoans  have  a  Bible  which,  as  a  classic, 
is,  and  will  be  to  them,  very  much  what  the  Authorized 
Version  has  been  in  England.  His  Hebrew  Old  Testa- 
ment and  his  Greek  New  Testament  were  among  his  most 
cherished  companions,  whether  he  was  at  home  or  travel- 
ling. He  had  also  a  very  perfect  knowledge  of  the  Samoan 
language,  and  spoke  it  like  one  of  the  natives  of  a  genera- 
tion now  passed  away,  before  the  language  had  suffered 
from  modern  corruptions.  He  was  so  familiar  with  the 
classic  traditions  of  the  people,  and  could  illustrate  and 
give  points  to  his  speech  by  such  telling  references  and 
allusions,  that  it  was  always  a  treat  to  the  natives  to  hear 


EDUCATIONAL    WORK  389 

Palati  speak.  He  had  no  uninterested  hearers.  He 
accordingly  had  Httle  patience  with  missionaries  who  were 
contented  with  an  imperfect  knowledge  of  the  language  of 
the  people  to  whom  they  preached,  or  who  were  given  to 
careless  speech  ^.' 

Samoa  is  famous  among  nineteenth-century  missions 
for  educational  work.  The  strong  band  of  English  mis- 
sionaries who  settled  there  in  1836  and  1837,  and  who 
were  instrumental  in  the  rapid  and  complete  overthrow  of 
heathenism,  so  far  as  the  most  degrading  and  objectionable 
features  were  concerned,  early  recognized  the  pressing  need 
for  a  thoroughly  educated  and  trained  native  ministry. 
Out  of  this  conviction  sprang  in  1844  the  remarkable 
Malua  Institution.  In  March,  1844,  a  general  meeting 
of  the  missionaries  decided  to  set  apart  Mr.  Hardie  and 
Mr.  Turner  for  this  work.  The  spot  chosen  was  the 
important  district  of  Malua,  on  the  north-west  coast  of 
Upolu,  about  twelve  or  fifteen  miles  west  of  Apia.  The 
chiefs  were  all  eager  to  secure  the  institution,  and  offered 
the  needful  land  free  of  charge.  But  the  missionaries 
determined  to  keep  clear  of  subsequent  possible  land 
complications  and  disputes,  and  chose  a  site  in  the  bush, 
remote  from  any  native  settlement.  Twenty-five  acres 
were  first  purchased  with  calico  and  hardware,  and  sub- 
sequently twenty-five  more  were  added.  The  total  cost 
was  i^28  3^.  \\d.,  or  about  \\s.  per  acre.  Upon  this  land 
the  buildings  intended  for  the  use  of  the  students  were 
constructed  and  arranged  round  three  sides  of  a  parallelo- 
gram. They  were  substantially  built,  and  consisted  of 
a  class-room,  sixty  feet  by  thirty,  and  ultimately  of  twenty- 
two  cottages,  each  thirty-two  feet  by  sixteen.  Two  houses 
adjoining  were  also  built  for  the  tutors.  All  the  labour 
necessary  was  duly  paid  for,  the  total  expenditure  on  this 
head  amounting  in  fifteen  years  to  ;^57o,  or  an  annual 
expense  of  only  ;^38.  The  fifty  acres  were  also  soon 
stocked  by  the  labour  of  the  students  with  large  quantities 
of  bread-fruit  and   cocoa-nut  trees,  and  each  student  has 

*  The  Chronicle ^  1895.  p.  5. 


390  SAMOA  :   1S30-1S95 

a  plot  of  land  containing  some  of  these  trees,  which  he 
cultivates,  and  upon  their  produce  he  partly  lives.  He 
has  also  a  plantation  for  yams,  taro,  and  bananas  which 
he  tills.  When  he  leaves,  these  become  the  property  and 
the  care  of  his  successor.  With  limitations  he  is  allowed 
to  sell  surplus  produce,  and  thus,  with  a  gift  of  clothing 
from  the  institution,  he  is  able  to  supply  all  his  needs  and 
to  support  himself  without  any  aid  from  his  friends.  In 
this  way  also  from  the  first,  by  the  agricultural  and  manual 
labour  of  the  students,  the  institution  has  been  able  to  pay 
the  bulk  of  the  working  expenses,  exclusive  of  superinten- 
dents' salaries. 

Unlike  most  colleges,  marriage  was  a  distinct  qualification 
for  admission.  The  wife  thus  derived  great  benefit  and 
received  training  which  she  could  not  possibly  get  else- 
where. The  children  also  had  a  special  school  for  their 
benefit. 

In  the  first  year  work  began  with  a  mixed  class  number- 
ing twenty-five,  varying  in  age  from  ten  to  twenty.  In  the 
second  year  a  new  class  was  formed  numbering  twenty-one, 
and  consisting  of  young  men,  carefully  selected,  from 
different  parts  of  the  islands.  The  course  was  fixed  at 
four  years,  and  from  the  first  the  supply  of  students  has 
always  been  more  than  equal  to  the  capabilities  of  the 
institution. 

At  the  end  of  the  first  twenty-five  years,  in  1869, 
Dr.  Turner  sent  home  a  valuable  and  instructive  Report 
on  the  work  of  the  institution.  The  work  of  the  twenty- 
fifth  year  had  embraced  among  other  subjects  the  exposi- 
tion of  the  Psalms,  Galatians,  and  part  of  the  Gospel  of 
Mark  ;  Scripture  history  from  Elisha  to  Jeremiah  ;  a  weekly 
class  had  been  held  on  pastoral  theology  ;  writing,  arithmetic, 
geography,  astronomy,  natural  history,  English,  and  drawing 
had  all  received  attention.  From  Mr.  Whitmee  also  the 
students  had  received  several  courses  of  lectures.  The 
Report  continues  : — 

'  During  the  twenty-five  years  we  have  enrolled  among 
the  members  of  the  institution  543  men,  395  women,  and 


THE  MALUA   INSTITUTION  391 

205  boys — in  all  1143.  Many  of,  these  205  boys  are  dead. 
Numbers  of  them  have  taken  influential  positions  as  heads 
of  families,  local  councillors,  and  chiefs.  One  of  them  is 
the  present  young  Malietoa,  whose  good  behaviour  is  the 
reason  alleged  by  many  for  wishing  him  to  be  king  of  the 
Tuamasanga.  Twenty-four  are  teachers  in  various  parts 
of  the  group.  Of  the  543  men  many  are  dead.  Numbers 
were  from  other  islands,  and  after  a  time  were  taken  back 
in  the  John  Williams  to  Savage  Island,  Tokelau.Aneiteum, 
Tanna,  Vate,  Erromanga,  Mare,  and  Lifu.  177  are  native 
agents,  and  76  have  retired  from  active  service,  but  still 
aid  the  village  teacher,  and  occasionally  preach,  making 
a  total  of  253  more  or  less  in  actual  service.' 

In  1872  Dr.  Turner  visited  England,  and  in  his  speech 
at  Exeter  Hall,  on  the  occasion  of  the  Society's  anniversary 
that  year,  he  emphasized  the  great  and  ever-increasing 
importance  of  this  native  training  and  educational  work. 
He  said — 

'We  own  by  purchase  in  the  name  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society  about  120  acres  of  land,  bushland. 
which  we  have  brought  under  cultivation.  It  is  divided 
into  little  plots  ;  each  student  has  his  plot  of  ground,  and 
there  he  plants  his  yams  and  bananas  ;  he  has  a  lagoon  in 
front  of  him  where  he  can  fish  ;  and  without  interfering 
with  the  time  of  these  young  men  more  than  is  absolutely 
necessary  for  the  good  of  their  health,  we  simply  keep 
them  to  their  agricultural  and  fishing  habits  for  an  hour 
or  two  every  day,  and  in  this  way  they  provide  all  that 
is  necessary  for  the  wants  of  their  tabic  from  day  to  day 
and  from  year  to  year,  saving  us  a  good  deal  of  trouble  and 
expense — at  least  ;^i,ooo  a  year.  We  keep  these  young 
men  in  the  institution  for  a  course  of  four  years'  instruction, 
and  for  the  last  twelve  years  we  have  had  a  very  stringent 
law  on  this  matter  ;  we  do  not  allow  a  student  to  leave 
until  he  has  completed  the  four  years'  course.  During  that 
time  they  get  about  1,200  consecutive  portions  of  Scripture 
exposition,  the  notes  of  which,  carefully  prepared  by  their 
tutors,   they   keep.      They   have   a  course   of  lectures   on 


392  SAMOA  :   1S30-1895 

systematic  theology,  on  church  history,  and  on  Scripture 
history ;  and  their  attention  is  turned,  of  course,  to  the 
elements  of  natural  philosophy,  natural  history,  and  other 
branches  of  useful  instruction.  When  their  course  is 
completed,  they  go  to  some  village  to  which  they  have 
been  called,  and  there  they  preach  the  Gospel,  conduct 
schools  and  Bible-classes,  visit  the  sick,  baptize  the 
children  of  church-members,  and  in  many  instances  ad- 
minister the  ordinance  of  the  Lord's  Supper.  In  this  way 
we  are  gradually  transferring  to  these  native  ministers 
the  entire  responsibilities  of  the  pastorate — for  the  last 
sixteen  years  the  villages  in  Samoa  have  supported  their 
native  ministers.  I  have  summed  up  the  amount  con- 
tributed to  the  Society  during  the  ten  years  before  I  came 
home,  and  found  it  amounted  to  ;^i  0,715,  a  steady  average 
of  ;^i,coo  a  year  ;  and  all  from  the  children  of  the  men 
about  whom  the  unfortunate  La  Perouse  recorded  in  his 
journal,  as  he  sailed  away  from  the  massacre  of  his  men 
in  1787:  "I  willingly  abandon  to  others  the  care  of 
writing  an  uninteresting  history  of  such  barbarous  nations  ; 
a  stay  of  twenty-four  hours,  and  the  relation  of  our  mis- 
fortune, sufficed  to  show  their  atrocious  manners."' 

Mr.  Hardie  retired  in  1854  and  Mr.  A.  W.  Murray  took 
his  place  at  Malua,  but  relinquished  it  for  Apia,  in  1856. 
In  January,  1859^  Mr.  G.  Stallworthy  who  had  spent  1834 
to  1 841  working  in  the  Marquesas,  removed  from  Falealili, 
his  station  since  1844,  and  came  to  Malua  to  take  charge 
of  the  institution  during  Mr.  Turner's  absence  in  England 
on  furlough.  But  after  only  a  few  months'  labour  there 
he  died  on  November  7,  1859,  to  the  great  regret  of  all 
his  colleagues^  and  to  the  great  loss  of  the  mission. 
Mr.  Stallworthy 's  place  was  taken  by  Mr.  Henry  Nisbet, 
Mr.  Turner's  former  colleague  on  Tanna  in  1842.  Mrs. 
Nisbet  was  a  daughter  of  Mr.  Crook,  the  Tahiti  mis- 
sionary. Mr.  Nisbet  began  work  at  Malua  in  December,  1859, 
removing  thither  from  Sapapalii  on  Savaii,  which  station 
he  had  occupied  since  1850.  He  was  in  sole  charge  of  the 
institution  until  Dr.  Turner's  return  to  Samoa  in  November, 


JUBILEE   OF  MALUA   INSTITUTION  393 

1863.  From  May,  1862,  when  Mr.  Ella  left  Samoa, 
Mr.  Nisbet  had  also  directed  all  the  work  of  the  mission 
press.  During  Mr.  Turner's  sojourn  in  Great  Britain  in  1861, 
the  University  of  Glasgow  conferred  upon  him  the  degree 
of  LL.D.  Until  June,  1867,  Dr.  Turner  and  Mr.  Nisbet 
jointly  managed  the  Malua  Institution  ;  the  latter  visiting 
Australia  in  1867,  England  in  1868.  In  1870  Mr.  Nisbet 
also  received  the  degree  of  LL.D.  from  the  University 
of  Glasgow.  Dr.  Nisbet  died  at  Malua,  May  9,  1876. 
In  1878  Mr.  John  Marriott  was  appointed  to  succeed 
him  as  joint-tutor  with  Dr.  Turner,  and  in  1882  failing 
health  compelled  the  latter  to  retire  from  the  active 
missionary  w^ork  in  which  he  had  spent  forty-two  years 
of  strenuous,  varied,  and  most  fruitful  labour.  Mr.  Marriott 
was  in  1896  the  senior  tutor  at  Malua,  having  as  his 
colleague  the  Rev.  J.  E.  Newell. 

This  famous  and  most  useful  missionary  educational 
institution  celebrated  its  jubilee  on  September  26  and  27, 
1894.  At  that  time  war  was  raging,  and  the  king,  who 
in  his  youth  had  been  a  boarder  in  the  Boys'  School, 
and  whose  reminiscences  would  have  been  deeply  in- 
teresting, wrote  that  he  deemed  it  prudent  to  exercise 
self-denial  and  refrain  from  attending.  The  assembly  on 
September  26  was  '  the  largest  and  most  picturesque  remem- 
bered in  Samoan  history.'  All  the  scholars  of  the  Girls' 
Central  High  School,  Papauta,  the  Boys'  High  School, 
Lculumoenga,  and  of  the  boarding  schools  were  present  in 
festive  dress.  Surrounding  these  were  former  students, 
pastors  in  active  service,  retired  pastors,  native  missionaries 
from  the  out-stations  home  on  furlough,  and  then  the 
present  students,  106  in  number,  with  twenty-eight  boy 
boarders,  and  the  wives  and  families  of  forty  married 
students.  The  Rev.  John  Marriott,  senior  tutor,  reviewed 
the  wonderful  past  of  the  institution.  There  had  passed 
through  its  training  during  the  half-century  1048  students 
and  '^'^^  boy  boarders.  Among  the  Samoan  speakers  were 
two,  of  whom  one  had  helped  to  clear  the  site  in  1844, 
he  then  being  a  boarder  in  Mr.  Harbutt's  school,  while  the 


394  SAMOA  :   1830-1895 

other  was  able  to  describe  the  life  and  habits  of  the  islands 
prior  to  i(S3o.  Many  meetings  were  held,  and  many 
addresses  were  delivered  by  missionaries,  native  pastors, 
and  former  students.  The  last  was  a  stirring  address 
by  a  native  pastor  from  Vaitupu  in  the  Ellice  group,  to 
whose  heart  the  Gospel  message  had  been  brought  by 
a  Samoan,  and  whose  earnest  appeals  were  rendered  all 
the  more  powerful  by  the  fact  that  he  was  himself  a  trophy 
of  the  Malua  Institution. 

In  addition  to  the  Malua  Institution,  much  educational 
work  of  different  kinds  has  been  accomplished  in  Samoa. 
At  every  mission  station,  whether  superintended  by 
a  missionary  or  entrusted  to  native  agency,  the  need  for 
training  the  children  has  never  been  allowed  to  drop  out 
of  sight,  and  in  many  cases  it  has  been  prosecuted  with 
both  vigour  and  success.  Elementary  schools  have  been 
held  in  all  villages  where  there  was  a  native  church.  They 
met  about  six  times  ;  that  is,  twice  a  day  for  three  days 
a  week.  An  English  missionary  annually  examined  the 
scholars  on  the  five  great  subjects — reading,  writing, 
arithmetic,  geography,  and  Scripture  history — prizes  being 
awarded  for  special  proficiency.  In  certain  districts — 
Malua,  Aana,  Tuasivi,  and  Matautu — higher  grade  schools 
have  been  founded,  in  which  boys  selected  for  their  ability 
and  promise  of  future  usefulness  were  carefully  trained. 
They  boarded  in  the  pastors'  houses,  except  at  Malua,  where 
the  higher  grade  school  is  an  integral  part  of  the  settle- 
ment, and  their  studies  were  superintended  by  a  missionary. 
Strenuous  efforts  have  also  been  made  through  higher  grade 
schools  to  teach  large  numbers  of  the  natives  English. 

Educational  work  has  thus  been  largely  developed  in 
recent  years.  A  school  for  whites,  half-castes,  and  better- 
class  natives  resident  at  Apia  was  begun  there  by  the 
residents,  and  called  the  Apia  Protestant  School.  In  1890 
it  had  103  children  in  attendance  :  thirty-three  of  English 
parentage,  twenty-nine  of  American,  ten  of  German,  four 
of  other  nations,  and  twenty-seven  of  Samoan.  The 
Society,  at  the  request  of   those  most  closely  concerned, 


GIRLS'   SCHOOL  AT  PAPAUTA  395 

took  over  this  school,  and  in  1891  Miss  Large  took  charge 
of  it  until  her  removal  to  Rarotonga  in  1894. 

Mr.  Hills  in  1887  took  charge  at  Apia  of  a  Normal 
Training  and  High  School  for  Samoan  youths.  The  im- 
portance of  this  higher  education  cannot  be  over-estimated. 
In  this  school  the  future  chiefs  and  rulers  of  Samoa  are 
being  trained.  Here  boys  are  prepared  to  enter  the  Malua 
Institution,  and  here  also  a  sound  Christian  instruction  is 
given  to  others  who  will  occupy  positions  of  influence  in 
village  and  political  life.  The  natives  realize  the  value  of 
this  higher  education,  and  the  number  of  candidates  con- 
stantly exceeds  the  vacancies.  In  1889  this  school  was 
removed  to  Leulumoenga,  where  it  has  since  remained. 

The  Deputation  in  1888  called  the  most  earnest  at- 
tention of  the  Directors  to  the  need  in  Sam.oa  of  much 
more  effective  education  for  girls.  In  1891  Miss  Schultze 
and  Miss  Moore  were  appointed  to  this  work,  and  it  was 
begun  upon  a  small  scale  at  Malua.  On  August  16,  1892, 
the  new  building  for  what  is  to  be  known  as  the  Central 
Girls'  School,  at  Papauta,  was  occupied,  and  formally 
opened  on  August  29  by  the  Countess  of  Jersey.  Miss 
Schultze  and  Miss  Moore  removed  thither  the  eight  girls 
who  had  been  for  a  year  and  a  half  under  their  care  at 
Malua.  By  1893  the  number  of  pupils  had  increased  to 
fifty-four.  At  the  end  of  1894  there  were  seventy-two  girls 
upon  the  books.  This  school  marks  a  most  important 
development  in  Samoan  work.  It  has  so  far  been  con- 
ducted with  great  skill  and  devotion,  and  is  full  of  promise 
for  the  future.     The  lady  teachers,  writing  in  1895,  said — 

*  We  long  to  see  the  girls  becoming  earnest,  active 
Christians,  whose  influence  shall  tell  upon  the  whole  of 
this  people ;  and  also  sensible,  capable,  conscientious  wives 
and  mothers,  by  whom  the  next  generation  shall  be  trained 
for  Christ.  Many  of  the  girls  are  developing  into  thought- 
ful and  earnest  young  women,  professing  to  have  given 
their  hearts  to  Jesus  Christ.  Many  of  the  students  in 
Malua  are  looking  to  Papauta  school  to  provide  them 
wives.     This  is  just  what  we  wish  for,  that  the  educated 


396  SAMOA:   1830-1895 

Christian  youth  of  both  sexes  should  come  together,  and 
form  refined  Christian  homes  throughout  Samoa.' 

The  clan  life  of  Samoa  modified  from  the  first  the 
working  and  development  of  Christianity  in  the  islands. 
The  unit  in  Samoa  is  the  family,  in  which  the  head  or 
chief  is  supreme.  A  group  of  families  constitute  the 
village.  All  the  land  is  owned  by  these  chiefs  or  heads, 
and  disposed  of  by  them,  but  only  in  consultation 
with  the  members  of  each  family  or  clan.  Each  village 
community,  including  from  200  to  500  people,  is  quite 
self-contained,  independent,  and  entitled  to  act  within  its 
own  boundaries  exactly  as  it  pleases,  free  from  all  external 
control.  Frequently,  to  the  number  of  eight  or  ten,  the 
villages  united  to  form  a  district  for  mutual  protection. 
In  cases  of  war  these  groups  of  villages  acted  as  a  unit. 
The  whole  groups  contained  ten  such  districts  ^.  When 
heathenism  was  overthrown  and  Christianity  established 
in  the  islands,  this  system  of  government  continued  and 
was  modified  only  very  slowly.  The  Christian  Church 
resembled  in  some  of  its  features  the  old  family  life,  and  the 
old  independent  spirit  was  reflected  in  the  determination 
of  each  community  to  be  self-governing  in  its  aflairs  as 
a  church.  This  was,  of  course,  modified  by  the  respect 
and  obedience  rendered  to  the  missionaries,  but  the  facts 
of  Samoa's  religious  history  will  be  misinterpreted  if  these 
facts  are  not  kept  in  view.  Native  pastors  were  appointed 
in  many  of  the  villages,  and  the  life  of  the  Christian  Church 
tended  to  reproduce,  with  the  native  pastor  or  teacher  as 
the  equivalent  of  the  old  family  head  or  chief,  many  of  the 
features  and  qualities  of  the  old  village  life.  Of  course, 
from  the  first,  and  throughout,  Christianity  was  opposed 
to  two  of  the  most  potent  factors  of  the  old  heathen  life. 
It  always  refused  to  give  any  sanction  to  the  rank  of  chief 
simply  as  such.  It  often  used  the  power  of  the  chief  when 
he  was  friendly  to  Christianity,  but  it  refused  to  give  him, 
simply  as    chief,  any  status   in   the   church.     Christianity 

^  On   this   very   interesting   subject   see   Dr.    Turner's    AHneteen    Years   in 
Polynesia,  ch.  xxix,  and  his  Samoa,  ch.  xvi. 


LATER    WORKERS  IN  SAMOA  397 

also  steadily  refused  to  extend  any  countenance  whatever 
to  the  frequent  wars  between  the  districts.  The  rapid 
growth  and  the  educational  efficiency  of  Malua  also  tended 
to  develop  early  in  the  life  of  the  mission  a  fine  body  of 
native  home  workers  as  well  as  a  noble  band  who  carried 
the  Gospel,  often  by  the  sacrifice  of  their  lives,  to  the 
islands  still  in  the  darkness  and  cruelties  of  heathenism. 

There  have  been  during  the  latter  half  of  the  century 
many  earnest  workers  in  Samoa.  Among  these  special 
mention  should  be  made  of  Thomas  Powell,  who,  aided 
by  his  devoted  wife,  gave  forty  years  of  active  labour  in 
the  different  stations  and  varied  services  of  the  mission, 
1845  to  1885;  of  S.  H.  Davies,  who  was  connected  with 
the  mission  for  twenty-eight  years,  1867  to  1895  ;  and  of 
men  like  Samuel  Ella,  1848  to  1862,  Joseph  King,  1863 
to  1872,  S.  J.  Whitmee,  1863  to  1876,  G.  F.  Scott,  B.A., 
1865  to  1873,  Dr.  G.  A.  Turner,  1868  to  1879,  Charles 
Phillips,  1878  to  1886,  VV.  E.  Clarke,  1883  to  1895,  who 
have  all  contributed  to  the  building  up  of  Samoan  Chris- 
tianity. The  staff  in  1895  consisted  of  the  following 
missionaries : — On  Upolu,  the  Revs.  J.  Marriott.  J.  E.  Newell, 
W.  E.  Clarke,  J.  VV.  Hills,  W.  E.  Goward,  Miss  Schultze 
and  Miss  Moore  ;  on  Savaii,  Rev.  S.  H.  Davies,  L.R.C.S., 
and  Rev.  S.  A.  Beveridge ;  and  on  Tutuila,  Rev.  E.  V. 
Cooper.  There  were  then  connected  with  the  mission 
142  ordained  native  agents,  and  184  native  preachers  ; 
5,743  church  members;  209  schools  and  7,715  scholars; 
and  the  local  contributions  amounted  to  ;^3,6i8.  When 
it  is  remembered  that  in  1830  the  Samoans  were  ferocious 
savages  these  statistics  become  eloquent  in  their  testimony 
to  the  extraordinary  progress  made  in  two  generations. 

In  the  year  1888  a  very  important  Deputation  was  sent 
to  Samoa  by  the  Directors.  It  consisted  of  Mr.  Albert 
Spicer,  the  treasurer  of  the  Society  ;  the  Rev.  Joseph  King, 
missionary  in  Samoa  from  1863  to  1872;  and  the  Rev. 
A.  W.  Murray,  who,  though  he  had  long  retired  from  active 
work,  gladly  gave  his  invaluable  services  as  interpreter. 
The  carefully  prepared  report  of  this  Deputation  is  full  of 


398  SAMOA:   isso  1895 

very  valuable  information,  and  especially  upon  the  peculiar 
and  characteristic  features  of  Samoan  life  in  relation  to 
Christianity,  and  the  condition  and  past  history  of  the 
native  churches.  Some  passages  in  the  report  of  this,  by  far 
the  strongest  and  most  competent  Deputation  which  has 
yet  visited  Samoa,  throw  much  light  upon  this  all-important 
question  : — 

•  Church  membership  is  open  only  to  those  who  have 
previously  belonged  to  a  catechumen  class.  A  candidate 
for  church  fellowship  is  required  to  attend  the  class  for 
at  least  a  year  before  he  can  be  proposed  for  admission 
to  the  church.  The  question  of  taking  away  this  re- 
striction was  raised  by  our  native  pastors ;  but  the  English 
missionaries  advised  its  retention  for  a  time  at  least,  and 
we  concurred  in  this  advice.  The  usage  has  been  in  force 
from  the  beginning  of  the  mission,  and  its  sudden  aboli- 
tion would  be  dangerous.  The  superintendence  of  the 
candidates'  class  was  handed  over  to  the  native  pastors 
in  1875,  and  since  then  it  has  rested  with  them,  and  not 
with  the  English  missionaries,  as  formerly,  to  decide  when 
a  candidate  shall  be  nominated  for  membership.  It  is  of 
the  first  importance  that  the  native  pastors  should  accustom 
themselves  to  this  work,  but  as  far  as  practicable  it  should 
still  have  a  measure  of  supervision  from  the  English 
missionaries. 

'  When  the  year  of  candidature  has  expired,  the  pastor 
submits  to  his  deacons  the  names  of  those  whom  he  thinks 
ready  for  admission,  and  with  the  deacons'  approval  he 
nominates  them.  There  is  a  church  in  every  village, 
but  when  the  villages  are  small,  the  churches  in  these 
villages  combine  for  the  transaction  of  church  business. 
Candidates  are  nominated  at  the  local  meeting  in  their 
own  village  one  month,  and  admitted  a  month  later  at 
the  united  meeting.  In  large  villages  the  church  is  self- 
contained. 

'  It  was  not  satisfactory  to  find  such  a  large  percentage 
of  cases— about  ten  per  cent,  per  annum  in  the  districts 
inquired  into— coming  before  the  meeting  of  the  churches 


NATIVE   CHURCHES  IN  SAMOA  399 

for  discipline.  It  must,  however,  be  borne  in  mind 
that  a  wholly  different  practice  obtains  amongst  Samoan 
churches  from  that  in  use  in  the  churches  of  Britain,  and 
that  the  circumstances  of  life  are  entirely  dissimilar.  In 
regard  to  the  life  and  character  of  Samoans  there  is  no 
secrecy ;  everything  is  known,  every  angry  word  is  heard 
and  repeated,  every  quarrel  is  talked  about  and  becomes 
public  knowledge.  An  inconsistency  in  a  church  member 
is  observed,  and,  according  to  the  usage  which  has  been 
long  followed,  it  has  to  be  dealt  with  by  the  church. 
Gross  inconsistencies,  rightly  enough,  lead  to  expulsion  ; 
but  in  the  past  there  has,  we  think,  been  too  great  readi- 
ness to  expel  for  trifling  causes,  and  we  were  gratified  to 
discover  amongst  the  missionaries  and  pastors  a  disposition 
to  repeal  some  existing  discipline  regulations,  and  to  avoid 
over-legislation  in  such  matters.  A  uniform  code  of  dis- 
cipline regulations  has  been  drawn  up  and  endorsed  by 
all  the  missionaries  and  pastors  in  confidence,  and  this 
code,  printed  and  circulated,  secures  uniformity  of  action 
throughout  all  the  churches  of  the  group. 

•  The  conditions  of  Samoan  life,  and  the  infantile  weak- 
nesses of  Samoan  character,  must  be  understood  in  order 
to  appreciate  the  need  for  such  a  code.  It  will  surprise 
some  readers  to  know  that  one  of  the  discipline  regulations 
is  a  prohibition  of  cricket  matches.  Let  the  prohibition 
be  explained.  The  game  of  cricket  was  introduced  into 
Samoa  only  three  years  ago  by  the  officers  and  crew  of 
H.M.S.  Diamond.  Every  one  regarded  the  introduction 
with  favour ;  but,  within  a  short  time,  instead  of  keeping 
to  the  ordinary  rules  of  cricket,  matches  were  arranged 
with  two  hundred  a  side,  and  the  play  was  continued 
during  the  whole  day  for  a  month  at  a  time,  to  the  utter 
neglect  of  home,  plantations,  and  worship.  The  excite- 
ment passed  beyond  all  reasonable  control,  and  led  to  very 
much  that  was  distinctly  heathenish.  Against  such  cricket 
it  was  absolutely  necessary  to  protest  in  the  case  of  church 
members,  and  the  protest  took  the  form  of  a  recognized 
discipline  regulation. 


400 


SAMOA  :   1S30-1S95 


'  Each  village  church  is  under  the  care  of  a  Samoan 
pastor.  These  pastors  are  all  trained  at  Malua.  Con- 
sidering the  preparatory  training  necessary  to  reach  the 
Malua  standard,  and  the  four  years  of  thorough  instruction 
which  follow,  it  will  be  apparent  that  the  Samoan  churches 
are  enjoying  the  advantage  of  an  educated  ministry.  We 
use  the  term  in  its  comparative  sense.  In  knowledge, 
Samoan  pastors  stand  at  a  higher  level  than  the  body 
of  the  people,  higher  even  than  that  occupied  by  the  chiefs 
and  leaders  of  the  nation.  The  appointment  of  a  pastor 
to  a  native  church  rests  with  the  church  members,  in 
conjunction  with  the  chiefs  of  the  village.  They  meet 
conjointly  at  the  close  of  a  service,  and  decide  to  give 
a  call  to  a  pastor,  whose  name  may  have  been  previously 
suggested  to  them  by  the  English  missionary,  or  of  whom 
they  may  have  obtained  knowledge  in  some  other  way. 
The  English  missionary  has  no  absolute  authority  to  veto 
a  selection  ;  but,  should  he  be  convinced  that  a  serious 
mistake  has  been  made,  he  would  use  his  normal  suasion 
to  prevent  a  settlement,  and  such  an  attitude  on  his  part 
would  be  almost  certain  to  succeed.  In  the  case  of  a 
student  from  Malua  settling  over  a  church,  he  is  not 
ordained  until  he  has  been  acting  as  pastor  for  a  year. 
The  decision  to  ordain  rests  with  the  English  missionary 
of  the  district,  and  he  may  withhold  ordination  for  a 
lengthened  period,  if  he  deems  it  wise. 

'  For  church  work,  Samoa  is  divided  into  several  large 
districts,  some  of  them  extending  along  a  coast  line 
eighty  miles  in  length.  These  large  districts  are  again 
subdivided. 

'  The  pastors  of  the  subdivided  district  meet  monthly. 
At  this  meeting  the  English  missionary,  should  it  be  his 
home  district,  presides.  At  these  meetings  the  pastors 
seek  advice  of  each  other  about  any  question  affecting 
their  individual  churches.  The  position  of  the  missionary 
as  president  of  this  assembly  gives  him  no  more  official 
power  than  is  possessed  by  the  other  members  of  the 
assembly,    but    by    his  superior   moral    influence  he  docs 


SAMOAN  CHURCH  GOVERNMENT  401 

control  the  discussions  and  determine  to  a  large  extent 
the  resolutions.  A  quarterly  meeting  of  the  entire  district 
is  held,  similar  in  its  character  and  functions  to  the  more 
local  monthly  meeting,  with  this  difference,  that  it  is  only 
from  this  meeting  of  the  whole  district  that  resolutions  can 
be  sent  to  the  general  meeting  of  all  Samoan  pastors. 

'A  General  Yearly  Meeting  is  also  held  at  which  resolu- 
tions forwarded  by  the  district  assemblies  are  considered, 
and  a  united  decision  arrived  at.  All  pastors  have  a  right 
to  attend  this  gathering,  but  for  convenience  delegates 
from  all  the  districts  generally  constitute  the  meeting. 
The  English  missionaries  are  not  present  at  this  meeting. 
A  joint  meeting  of  the  English  missionaries  with  ap- 
pointed delegates  from  the  assembly  of  Samoan  pastors 
is  held  the  same  day,  at  which  the  questions  submitted 
on  behalf  of  that  assembly  are  considered  and  dealt  with 
finally. 

'  The  committee  of  English  missionaries,  although  it 
forms  no  part  of  the  church  organization  of  Samoa,  acts 
as  stewards  for  the  Board  of  Directors,  and  is  responsible 
for  all  matters  affecting  the  Society's  interest  and  work. 

'The  form  of  church  governijient  observed  in  Samoa 
is  Presbyterian  rather  than  Congregational,  with  a  sem- 
blance of  Episcopacy  in  the  relation  of  the  English 
missionary  to  the  native  churches.  The  missionaries, 
in  harmony  with  the  broad  spirit  of  the  Society  which 
sent  them  forth,  have  allowed  to  grow,  unfettered  by 
denominational  tradition,  a  form  of  church  organization 
which  seemed  to  them  best  fitted  to  serve  the  conditions 
of  society  they  found  existing  amongst  these  weak  races. 
The  government  of  the  churches  has  naturally  fallen  into 
the  hands  of  pastors — first,  because  the  patriarchal  instincts 
of  the  people  make  them  more  than  willing  to  be  legislated 
for  by  others  ;  and  secondly,  because  the  higher  education 
has  been  confined  to  the  pastors.  With  the  introduction 
of  a  more  liberal  secular  education,  this  evil  will  be  righted. 
While  our  Society  gives  abundant  latitude  to  its  agents 
to  set  up  what  form  of  church  government  may  seem  to 

I.  D  d 


402  SAMOA:   1830-1895 

them  and  their  people  best,  neither  its  Directors  nor  its 
supporters  in  these  days  will  be  satisfied  to  see  growing 
within  the  pale  of  its  operations  a  church  union  or  as- 
sembly from  which  the  presence  of  the  laity  is  excluded. 
The  Samoan  missionaries  in  the  field  fully  concurred  with 
the  Deputation  that  it  would  be  wise  as  soon  as  practicable 
to  entrust  the  government  of  the  Samoan  churches  to  the 
joint  control  of  ministers  and  laymen.  Considering  the 
past  history  and  the  present  circumstances  of  the  mission 
advance  in  this  direction  must  be  by  slow  stages. 

'  The  Samoans  have  been  nominal  Christians  for  more 
than  fifty  years.  The  time  has  been  long  enough  to 
effect  a  great  change,  but  it  is  unreasonable  to  expect 
from  a  people  who  had  sunk  so  low  a  type  of  exceptional 
holiness,  or  to  complain  because  they  are  not  paragons 
of  virtue  and  superior  to  the  grosser  forms  of  vice.  A  very 
great  change  has  been  wrought,  and  a  change  as  great 
as  we  have  any  right  to  expect.  We  have  met  and  ad- 
dressed large  assemblies  of  native  Christians.  We  have 
met  in  conference  more  than  two  hundred  native  pastors. 
We  have  attended  meetings  at  the  college  where  more 
than  one  hundred  studeots  were  present.  We  have  had 
quiet  talks  with  individuals.  We  have  talked  with  mission- 
aries and  foreigners  about  the  converts,  and  unhesitatingly 
we  affirm  that  a  great  and  unmistakably  Christian  work  has 
been  accomplished,  for  which  the  supporters  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society  may  be  very  thankful.  Samoan  Chris- 
tians have  not  yet  conquered  their  characteristic  national 
and  social  weaknesses,  but  the  force  of  new  Christian 
principles  is  felt  and  the  Divine  truths  of  the  Gospel  are 
transforming,  by  a  sure  process,  the  character  of  the 
people.  It  is  possible,  we  know,  to  throw  over  paganism 
a  Christian  dress  without  changing  the  old  pagan  heart 
or  eradicating  the  pagan  nature.  We  are  persuaded  that 
more  than  this  has  been  done  in  Samoa.  The  pagan 
nature  has,  in  many  cases,  been  brought  into  subjection 
to  the  mind  of  Christ,  and  the  subjection  has  advanced 
as  rapidly  as  the  circumstances  surrounding  these  people 


THE   CHRISTIAN  COMMUNITY  IN  SAMOA      403 

would  permit.  We  place  no  limit  on  the  power  of  the 
Spirit  of  God,  but  we  do  not  forget  that  the  effect  of 
human  environment  is  still  seen  in  those  who  are  manifestly 
the  subjects  of  the  Spirit's  power. 

'  In  spite  of  every  alien  influence,  a  Christian  community 
has  been  gathered  in  the  tropical  islands  of  Samoa,  and 
in  that  community  many  loyal  and  loving  followers  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  may  be  found — a  community  well  ac- 
quainted with  the  Scriptures.  Young  people  in  Samoa 
are  better  acquainted  with  the  Bible  than  the  average 
Sunday-school  scholars  in  England,  and  the  Samoans' 
knowledge  of  the  Bible  in  very  many  cases  has  changed 
the  heart  and  lifted  the  old  pagan  life  to  the  level  of  con- 
scious communion  with  God.  We  have  spoken  of  native 
pastors.  Too  much  cannot  be  said  in  commendation  of 
the  faithful  Christian  work  which  many  of  them  are  doing. 
They  are  good  preachers  ;  but  better  than  this,  many  of 
them  are  good  men — men  whose  Christian  character  com- 
mands respect.  We  have  been  abundantly  satisfied  with 
what  we  have  seen  in  Samoa,  and  with  what  we  have 
heard  of  the  interesting  work  which  is  being  carried  on 
through  Samoan  teachers  in  the  north-west  out-stations 
of  the  group.' 

[Authorities. — Letters  and  Official  Reports ;  Missionary  Enterprises, 
by  John  \Villiams;  K'ineteen  Years  in  Polynesia,  and  Samoa  a  Hundred 
Years  /igo,  by  Dr.  Turner;  Forty  Years'  Mission  Work  in  Polynesia,  and 
Western  Polynesia,  by  A.  W.  Murray;   and  Old  Samoa,  by  J.  B,  Stair.] 


1)  d  2 


CHAPTER    XII 

EXTENSION    OF    WORK    IN    WESTERN    POLYNESIA 

The  success  which  followed  the  introduction  of  the 
Gospel  into  Samoa  in  1830  sustained  a  strong  missionary 
spirit,  and  developed  it  in  the  hearts  of  the  European 
workers,  also  in  many  of  the  best  natives.  Rejoicing  in 
their  new  liberty  and  truth,  they  felt  that  they  were 
debtors  to  the  many  islands  yet  in  darkness.  To  the  New 
Hebrides,  the  Loyalty  Islands,  Niue  or  Savage  Island, 
the  Gilbert  Islands,  and  the  EUice  group  they  successively 
handed  on  the  torch  of  truth.  No  mission  field  more 
richly  abounds  in  episodes  illustrating  the  courage,  the 
devotion,  and  the  perseverance  of  both  European  and 
native  workers.  In  every  case  the  natives  led  the  way. 
In  many  places  the  pioneers  sealed  their  witness  with 
their  lives.  Wherever  the  blessings  of  Christianity  were 
brought  they  came  through  self-sacrifice  bravely  endured 
for  Christ's  sake  to  those  at  first  unwilling  and  unable  to 
appreciate  them.  Romance,  heroism,  patient  continuance 
in  well-doing,  casting  bread  upon  the  waters  to  be  seen 
only  after  many  days,  and  never  in  this  life  by  many 
of  the  most  earnest  evangelists — these  are  the  marks  of 
the  work  done  in  the  out-stations  of  the  Samoan  Mission. 
It  would  be  a  pleasant  task  to  detail  the  inspiring  episodes, 
the  lovely  Christian  lives,  the  conquests  won  over  the  most 
.savage  heathenism,  the  triumphs  of  the  Gospel  in  this  part 
of  Polynesia.  For  these  the  reader  must  consult  the 
Reports  and  Chronicle  of  the  Society,  and  such  works  as 
Mr.  A.  W.  Murray's    Western  Polynesia,   TJie  Martyrs  of 


FUTUNA  405 

Pclynesia,2i\\d  Forty  Years'  Mission  Work  in  Polynesia  ;  and 
Dr.  Macfarlane's  The  Story  of  the  Lifii  Mission.  We  can 
but  outline  in  the  broadest  fashion  this  story  of  splendid 
service. 

I.  The  New  Hebrides.  The  Society  has  long  ceased 
to  have  any  direct  connection  with  this  portion  of  Poly- 
nesia. It  is,  perhaps,  all  the  more  needful  to  emphasize 
the  fact  that  the  Society's  missionaries,  and  especially 
native  workers  trained  by  them,  laid  the  foundations  upon 
which  our  Presbyterian  brethren  from  Nova  Scotia  and 
from  Great  Britain  have  since  so  well  and  so  steadily  built. 
The  group  early  attracted  John  Williams  and  his  col- 
leagues. It  consists  of  thirty  inhabited  islands,  two  of 
them  with  a  coast  line  of  more  than  200  miles.  They  run 
north-west  and  south-east  from  Espiritu  Santo  in  the  north 
to  Aneiteum.  Those  most  prominent  in  mission  story  are 
the  last  named,  together  with  Erromanga,  Futuna,  and 
Tanna. 

The  massacre  of  John  Williams  and  Mr.  Harris  m  1H39 
summarily  ended  the  attempt  then  being  made  to  gain 
a  footing  for  Christianity  upon  the  New  Hebrides.  But  in 
March,  1841,  the  Camden  again  visited  them,  conveying 
Mr.  A.  W.  Murray  in  charge  of  a  company  of  native 
teachers.  Futuna  was  first  visited,  and  there  on  March  29, 
1 841,  two  teachers  were  landed — xApolo  from  Tutuila,  and 
Samuela  from  Upolu.  Mr.  Buzacott  visited  the  island  in 
the  Camden  in  1842,  bringing  to  Samuela  his  wife  and 
daughter.  In  April,  1845,  Mr.  Murray,  accompanied  by 
Mr.  Turner,  a  second  time  visited  Futuna.  The  long 
interval  had  been  unavoidable,  and  in  all  probability 
nothing  could  have  prevented  the  catastrophe  with  which 
they  then  first  became  acquainted.  Early  in  1843  an 
epidemic  had  visited  the  island.  In  accordance  with  the 
native  belief,  this  was  connected  with  the  coming  of  the 
teachers,  and  the  natives  resolved  to  murder  them  all. 
Apolo  and  Samuela  and  his  daughter  were  killed. 
Samuelas  wife  was  offered  her  life  if  she  would  become 


4o6        EXTENSION  IN  WESTERN  POLYNESIA 

the  wife  of  the  leader  of  the  band  of  murderers.  She 
refused,  and  was  also  killed.  The  house  was  burnt,  and 
one  of  the  bodies  eaten ;  the  other  two  were  cut  up  and 
cast  into  the  sea,  probably  as  an  offering  to  the  offended 
gods.  In  1853  two  teachers,  natives  of  Aneiteum,  resumed 
work  there,  but  no  conspicuous  success  was  attained. 

At  a  spot  called  Ipece  on  the  beautiful  island  of 
Aneiteum,  lying  to  the  south-south-west  of  Futuna, 
Mr.  Murray  in  March,  1 841,  landed  two  Samoans,  Tavita 
and  Fuataiese,  natives  of  Sapapalii.  The  natives  at  first 
showed  themselves  friendly,  but  the  work  there  proved 
both  difficult  and  dangerous.  One  of  the  native  teachers 
soon  died,  and  the  other  returned  to  Samoa.  Mr.  Buzacott 
in  1842  landed  two  other  native  teachers,  named  Apolo 
and  Simeona,  and  in  1845  Messrs.  Murray  and  Turner 
found  them  safe  and  to  some  extent  prospering.  A  new 
station  was  formed  at  Anelecauhat,  where  Simeona  was 
taken  from  Ipece,  receiving  Poti  as  colleague,  while 
Apaisa  was  left  with  Apolo.  Though  often  in  great 
danger,  frequently  suffering  much  from  disease  and 
scarcity  of  food,  and  at  times  on  the  brink  of  destruc- 
tion, these  men  were  enabled  to  hold  on  until  the 
day  of  grace  for  Aneiteum  came.  This  was  on  May  29, 
1848,  when  Mr.  Geddie  of  the  Presbyterian  Church  of 
Nova  Scotia,  accompanied  for  a  time  by  Mr.  Powell  of  the 
Society's  Samoan  Mission,  began  his  splendid  service  for 
Christ  in  that  dark  seat  of  heathenism.  The  temptation 
to  dwell  upon  this  famous  episode  in  modern  missions 
must  be  resisted.  The  London  Missionary  Society,  having 
prepared  the  way  for  Mr.  Geddie  and  his  colleague  of  a  few 
years  later,  Mr.  Inglis,  were  only  too  glad  to  welcome  them, 
and  to  do  all  in  their  power  to  encourage  and  sustain 
them.  At  the  same  time  it  is  but  just  to  record  the  fact 
that,  humanly  speaking,  but  for  the  existence  of  the 
Samoan  Mission,  the  suppoit  and  advice  rendered  by 
the  missionaries  resident  there,  the  visits  of  the  missionary 
ships  of  the  London  Society,  and  above  all  the  courage 
and  consecration  of   the  native  workers  trained  at   Raro- 


GEDDIE^S   WORK  ON  ANEITEUM  407 

tonga  and  Samoa,  the  work  accomplished  by  Messrs.  Geddie 
and  IngHs  and  their  colleagues  and  successors  in  the  group 
would  have  been  much  more  difficult,  even  if  at  that  period 
not  impossible.  The  United  Presbyterian  Church  of 
Scotland  in  1836  gave  John  Williams,  in  response  to  one 
of  his  powerful  appeals,  '^300  to  assist  in  opening  up  New 
Caledonia,  the  understanding  being  that  as  soon  as  native 
teachers  had  prepared  the  way,  the  United  Presbyterian 
Church  would  send  out  missionaries.  The  knowledge  of 
this  fact  led  the  United  Presbyterian  Church  of  Nova 
Scotia  to  send  Mr.  Geddie  to  the  South  Seas  ^ 

For  more  than  four  years  Mr.  Geddie  and  his  devoted 
wife,  ably  assisted  by  the  native  teachers,  toiled  hard  in 
their  difficult  and  unpromising  field.  During  this  period 
great  progress  had  been  made  in  the  overthrow  of  canni- 
balism, widow-strangling,  war,  and  other  abominations  of 
heathenism.  The  foundation  of  a  Christian  community 
had  been  laid,  and  some  evidences  of  the  renewing  power 
of  the  Gospel  had  appeared.  On  July  i,  1852,  Bishop 
Selwyn  in  his  schooner  the  Border  Maid,  who  had  brought 
from  New  Zealand,  where  they  had  been  at  work  for  some 
years,  the  Rev.  John  Inglis  and  his  wife,  landed  them  on 
Aneiteum.  Mr.  Inglis  belonged  to  the  Reformed  Presby- 
terian Church  of  Scotland.  Mr.  Geddie  found  in  the  new- 
comer a  colleague  after  his  own  heart,  and  for  long  years 
they  were  spared  to  labour  together.  How  their  work 
prospered  can  be  estimated  from  Mr.  Turner's  description, 
when  in  the  John  Williams  he  visited  the  island  in  October, 
1859,  a  little  more  than  eleven  years  after  Mr.  Geddie 
landed : — 

'  The  population  of  Aneiteum  is  3,513.  Hardly  one  can 
now  be  found  who  calls  himself  heathen.  The  church 
members  number  297.  The  island  possesses  fifty-six 
schools,  eleven  chapels,  and  sixty  native  assistants.  The 
sum  raised  for  the  Bible  Society  during  the  last  two  years 
is  £60  ^.' 

'  See  Forty  Years''  Mission  IVork  in  Polynesia,  A.  \V.  Murray,  pp.  240-242. 
-   IVeslern  Polynesia,  A.  W.  Murray,  p.  131. 


4o8         EXTENSION  IN   WESTERN  POLYNESIA 

Of  recent  years  the  portion  of  the  New  Hebrides  Mission 
which    has   been   brought    prominently  before   the   public 
both  in  Great    Britain   and   in   Australia  is  the  island   of 
Tanna.     Here  too  the  pioneer  work  done  by  the  Society 
is   sometimes   forgotten.     As    early    as    November,    1839, 
three  Samoan  native  teachers  were  placed  on  the  island, 
this  being  the  last  missionary  work  done  by  John  Williams. 
In  April,  1840,  Mr.  Heath  in  the  Camden  added  two  other 
Samoans.     Shortly  after  two  of  the  teachers  died.     The 
natives  viewed  this  as  a  sign  of  the  gods'  displeasure,  and 
consequently  neglected  and  refused  to  help  the  survivors. 
In    June,    1842,    Mr.    Turner   and    Mr.   Nisbet,    who    had 
been   appointed  to   take   charge   of  the    mission,  landed. 
For  a  long   time  all    went  well.     Then   troubles  began ; 
the   natives  determined   to   murder  the   missionaries,  and 
after  being  in  imminent  peril  and  one  ineffectual  attempt 
to   escape,   the    opportune    arrival    of   a   vessel    brought 
deliverance.      Mr.    Turner    and    Mr.    Nisbet    with    their 
families  were  conveyed  to  Upolu  in   February,  1843.     In 
J  845  seven  teachers,  three  Rarotongans  and  four  Samoans, 
were  stationed  on  the  island  ;  but  disease  again  broke  out 
among  the  natives,  and  was  again  attributed  to   the  evil 
influence  of  the  new  teachers.     One  was  murdered,  and  the 
rest  took  refuge  for  a  time  on  Aneiteum.     In  March,  1847, 
by  invitation  of  the  chief  at  Port  Resolution  two  teachers 
returned,  and  were  soon  after  joined  by  a  third.     A  fresh 
outbreak  of  disease  again  destroyed  the  fair  hopes  which 
for  two  or  three  years  had  been  cherished,  and  again  the 
teachers'  lives  were  endangered.      In  May,  1852,  a  vessel 
from  California,  having  small-pox  on  board,  anchored  at 
Port   Resolution,  allowed    the    natives   to   come  on  board 
freely,  took  no  steps  to  prevent  infection,  and  imparted  the 
fell  disease  to  the  islanders.     Three  of  the  teachers  died. 
The  disease  also  carried  off  numbers  of  the  natives,  who 
not  unnaturally  traced   the  scourge  to  the  whites  and  to 
strangers,  and  finally  banished  the  sole  surviving  teacher. 

In  October,  1854,  another  attempt  to  gain  a  permanent 
footing  on  Tanna  was  made.     The  natives  who  had  visited 


ERROMANGA  409 

Aneiteum  were  impressed  by  the  progress  achieved  there, 
and  promised  that  if  teachers  were  once  more  sent  to  Tanna 
they  would  treat  them  better.  Two  were  sent,  and  by 
3859  eleven  were  at  work.  At  the  close  of  1858  three 
missionaries  from  Scotland  (Messrs.  Paton,  Copeland,  and 
Mathieson)  were  stationed  at  Tanna ;  the  first  two  at  Port 
Resolution,  the  other  at  Juaraka.  This  was  the  beginning 
of  the  good  work  which,  with  many  trials  and  dangers,  and 
yet  with  abiding  success,  has  since  been  carried  on  in  Tanna 
by  the  Presbyterian  Church. 

The  murder  of  John  Williams  in  1839  at  Erromanga, 
sad  and  tragic  as  it  was,  did  but  stir  the  hearts  of  the 
native  teachers  at  Rarotonga  and  Samoa  to  renewed  prayer 
and  toil  for  the  fierce  inhabitants  of  that  island.  The  great 
pioneer  fell  because  white  men — sandal-wood  traders — had 
for  some  time  before  his  visit  been  guilty  of  crimes  and 
excesses  that  were  even  worse  than  the  savagery  of  the 
natives,  since  they  were  committed  by  men  who  were  sup- 
posed to  be  both  civilized  and  Christian.  Native  teachers 
landed  on  Erromanga  in  May,  1840,  but  were  able  to  stay 
only  a  short  time.  In  1849  four  natives  of  the  island  were 
induced  by  Mr.  Murray  and  Mr.  Hardie  to  go  to  Malua. 
there  to  be  instructed  and  trained.  They  returned  in 
1852  in  tlie  John  Williams.  But  one  died  when  still  two 
or  three  days'  sail  from  Erromanga.  Two  Rarotongan 
teachers,  Vaa  and  Akatangi,  with  their  wives  and  families, 
were  stationed  on  the  island,  and  were  greatly  aided  in 
their  work  by  the  three  natives  who  had  been  to  Malua. 
In  1854  Mr.  Murray  and  Mr.  Sunderland  visited  them,  and 
found  all  going  on  well.  On  this  occasion  the  missionaries 
were  told  by  Kauiaui^  the  chief  who  had  killed  Mr.  Williams, 
that  his  own  son  had  been  killed  by  the  foreigners  only 
a  short  time  before.  They  succeeded  in  getting  the  club 
with  which  Mr.  Williams  was  said  to  have  been  killed.  At 
this  time  Kauiaui  was  eager  for  a  Christian  teacher. 

In  1857  the  Rev.  G.  N.  Gordon,  from  Nova  Scotia,  with 
his  wife,  settled  on  Erromanga  as  the  first  resident  white 
missionary.     An   outbreak  of  war    had    driven   away  the 


4IO        EXTENSION  IN  WESTERN  POLYNESIA 

teachers  and  their  native  helpers  some  time  before.  Two 
new  teacliers.  Taevao  and  Toka,  both  Rarotongans,  accom- 
panied Mr.  Gordon. 

Work  proceeded  hopefully  for  two  or  three  years,  but  in 
May,  ]86o,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gordon  were  murdered  by  the 
natives,  and  again  work  there  was  perforce  suspended.  An 
evil-minded  but  powerful  native  named  Rangi  had  persuaded 
the  natives  that  a  deadly  epidemic  of  measles  was  caused 
by  Mr.  Gordon,  and  this  led  to  the  murder  of  the  missionary 
and  his  wife.  Even  this  second  tragedy  was  unable  wholly 
to  check  the  good  work  on  Erromanga. 

The  visits  of  inspection  and  supervision  paid  by  the 
missionaries  in  the  John  Williams  led  to  attempts,  all  of 
which  were  ultimately  successful,  to  plant  Christianity  on 
Xiua,  Vate,  and  other  islands  of  the  New  Hebrides,  and 
also  upon  New  Caledonia  and  the  Isle  of  Pines.  The  care 
of  the  New  Hebrides  was  gradually  entrusted,  on  the 
principle  of  division  of  labour,  to  the  Presbyterian  Church  ; 
from  the  other  islands  the  missionaries  of  the  Society  were 
rigorously  excluded  by  the  French. 

n.  The  Loyalty  Islands— Mare,  Lifu,  and  Uvea.  The 
first  visit  of  a  missionary  character  to  Mare  was  made  by 
Mr.  Murray  in  the  Camden  in  1841.  Rowing  along  the 
coast  with  Captain  Morgan,  in  the  hope  of  meeting  friendly 
natives,  he  was  gladdened  by  the  approach  of  a  canoe  con- 
taining a  native,  who  called  out,  '  I  know  the  true  God.' 
Overjoyed,  Mr.  Murray  welcomed  him,  found  that  his 
name  was  Taufa,  that  he  was  a  native  of  Tonga,  and  had 
been  living  on  Mare  for  seven  years.  On  April  9,  1841, 
two  Samoan  teachers,  Tataio  and  Taniela  by  name,  were 
landed.  They  were  promised  protection  by  the  chief,  and 
thus  Christian  work  began  in  the  Loyalty  group. 

In  1854  the  Society  appointed  the  Rev.  S.  M.  Creagh 
and  the  Rev.  J.  Jones  resident  missionaries  upon  Mare. 
This  step  was  imperative,  because  the  mission  had  reached 
the  stage  beyond  which  it  was  impossible  for  native  teachers 
to  carry  it.     The  native  teacher  for  sustained  and  progres- 


MAB£  411 

sive  work  always  needs  the  spiritual  impulse,  the  moral 
stay,  the  higher  civilization,  and  the  greater  practical 
wisdom  of  the  white  man  to  render  his  labour  sufficiently 
persevering  and  effective.  Messrs.  Creagh  and  Jones  began 
work  under  the  most  favourable  conditions.  Heathenism 
in  all  its  worst  features  had  been  overthrown,  the  people 
were  willing  and  anxious  to  be  led  into  higher  regions  of 
knowledge  and  thought  and  practice.  The  outlook  was  full 
of  hope.  But  the  sky  soon  darkened.  In  February,  1855, 
Mrs.  Creagh  died,  and  not  long  after  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jones 
had  to  mourn  the  loss  of  two  children. 

In  addition  to  personal  trials,  they  had  to  endure  others 
from  the  hands  of  the  natives.  Both  at  Mare  and  Lifu  the 
population  ranged  itself  into  parties,  occupying  different 
portions  of  the  island.  The  one  accepted  Christianity  and 
its  consequences  ;  the  other,  mainly  because  the  missionary 
had  not  first  come  to  them,  clung  to  the  old  heathenism, 
though  even  these  abandoned  some  of  its  most  repulsive 
features.     Yet  the  work  made  steady  progress. 

In  1 86 1  the  missionaries  on  the  Loyalty  group  were 
anxious  to  recommence  work  on  New  Caledonia,  of  which 
island  and  its  dependencies  France  had  taken  possession 
in  1854.  Nominally  the  French  proclaimed  religious  tolera- 
tion in  that  island,  but  when  in  1861  Mr.  Macfarlane,  at 
the  request  of  his  colleagues,  visited  the  Governor  of  New 
Caledonia,  he  was  informed  that  no  English  missionaries 
would  be  allowed  to  labour  there. 

Work  on  Mare  proceeded  steadily  until  bitterness,  strife, 
and  bloodshed  were  introduced  by  the  advent  of  Roman 
Catholic  priests.  They  landed  in  1864,  and  pursued  the 
policy  of  aiding  pretenders  to  the  chieftainship  who  accepted 
Romanism  against  the  lawful  chiefs  who  were  Protestant. 
At  the  end  of  1869  war  broke  out,  the  priests  laying  the 
blame  upon  Mr.  Creagh.  A  French  Commission  empowered 
by  the  French  Government,  which  visited  the  i.^land  in  1870, 
held  him  guiltless.  In  1871  Mr.  Creagh  removed  to  Lifu 
to  take  Mr.  Macfarlane's  place,  and  Mr.  Jones  was  left 
alone  on  Mare.     Disgusted  at  the  report  of  the  Commis- 


412        EXTENSION  IN  WESTERN  POLYNESIA 

sion,  the  priests  left  the  island.  Five  years  later,  1875, 
they  returned.  Strife  and  bitterness  at  once  recommenced. 
War  again  broke  out,  and  upon  the  defeat  of  the  Papist 
section  that  party  was  sustained  by  the  French,  although 
they  had  been  the  aggressors.  Some  of  the  native  leaders 
of  the  Protestants  were  banished  to  Cochin  China.  In  1884 
the  Government  appointed  a  French  Protestant  minister 
superintendent  of  the  religious  work  of  Mare,  thus  repeat- 
ing their  action  on  Tahiti.  Mr.  Jones  was  summoned  on 
board  a  French  man-of-war  and  told  that  he  was  superseded 
by  M.  Cru,  and  that  the  natives  were  no  longer  under 
Mr.  Jones's  jurisdiction,  but  were  to  look  in  the  future  for 
their  guidance  in  all  matters  to  M.  Cru.  At  the  end  of 
four  months  all  schools  in  which  the  French  tongue  was 
not  spoken  were  to  be  closed.  Mr.  Jones  loyally  accepted 
this  harsh  regulation,  and  for  some  years  did  what  work  he 
could  in  the  face  of  these  vexatious  restrictions.  But  in 
December,  1887,  a  French  steamer  arrived  at  Mare.  An 
officer  and  soldiers  at  once  came  ashore  to  the  house  of 
Mr.  Jones,  told  him  that  he  was  under  arrest,  and  was 
to  be  expelled  the  island,  and  gave  him  half  an  hour  to  get 
ready.  At  the  end  of  that  time  force  would  be  used  if 
needful.  The  only  charge  brought  against  him  was  that 
his  proceedings  were  •  calculated  to  compromise  public 
order  and  tranquillity  in  the  Loyalty  Islands.'  Although 
efforts  were  afterwards  made  by  both  Lord  Kimbeiiey  and 
Lord  Salisbury  to  induce  the  French  Government  to  redress 
this  grievance,  Mr.  Jones  was  never  allowed  to  return  to 
Mare,  and  no  compensation  was  ever  awarded  him  for  the 
loss  and  danger  he  sustained  through  this  high-handed 
injustice.  Since  1887  Mare  has  been  without  a  resident 
Protestant  missionary,  and  the  condition  of  the  natives 
has  changed  for  the  worse  in  many  respects.  It  has  been 
a  grievous  sight  to  see  a  mission  field,  nobly  and  com- 
pletely won  from  a  savage  and  degraded  heathenism, 
rendered  to  a  large  extent  barren  and  unfruitful  by  the 
action  of  those  who  exert  power  in  the  name  of  a  great 
civilized  nation,  and   who,   while    professing  to  serve   the 


LIFU 


413 


same  Master,  act  so  as  to  stir  up  strife  against  those  who 
ought  to  be  treated  as  brethren. 

Lifu  is  the  largest  and  most  populous  island  of  the 
Loyalty  group.  Its  savage  inhabitants  first  heard  the 
'glad  tidings'  in  1845,  and  then  from  native  lips.  Messrs. 
Buzacott  and  Slatyer  during  the  missionary  voyage  of 
1842  left  at  Mare  two  teachers,  who  were  to  proceed  to 
Lifu  at  the  first  opportunity.  They  soon  crossed  over  to 
that  island  ;  but  there  one  apostatized,  and  Pao,  the  other, 
was  sorely  hindered  in  his  work  by  an  English  renegade, 
whose  nickname,  '  Cannibal  Charley,'  reveals  the  depth  of 
his  degradation.  But  Pao — a  name  ever  memorable  in  the 
annals  of  Lifu — persevered.  Nothing  strikes  the  student 
of  this  great  expansion  of  Christian  influence  in  Western 
Polynesia  more  than  the  wonderful  helpers  God  raised  up 
from  time  to  time  for  His  faithful  servants.  Taufa, 
a  Christian  native,  greatly  aided  in  the  conquest  of  Mare  ; 
Bula,  the  old  heathen  chief  of  half  the  island  of  Lifu, 
a  blind  man,  and  one  who  never  openly  renounced 
heathenism,  sustained  Pao  in  the  critical  early  stages  of 
his  work  by  his  most  powerful  and  timely  protection. 

The  story  of  the  Lifu  Mission — full  of  hope  and  en- 
couragement as  a  history  of  the  Gospel  triumphing  ov^er 
savagery  and  sin  ;  depressing  as  a  picture  of  the  disturbing 
and  debasing  effect  of  political  interference  on  the  one 
hand,  and  religious  intolerance  on  the  other,  upon  a  people 
just  coming  into  the  light  —  has  been  fully  traced  by 
Mr.  Macfarlane  in  TJie  Story  of  the  Lifu  Mission. 

In  1859  Messrs.  Macfarlane  and  Baker,  resident  mis- 
sionaries, reached  Lifu.  They  were  introduced  to  the 
natives  by  Mr.  Jones,  of  Mare.  Over  the  half  of  the  island 
ruled  by  Bula.  after  his  death,  though  his  son  was  chief,  civil 
war  raged  for  a  time.  The  chief  of  the  western  half  of 
Lifu  was  named  Ukenezo.  Constantly  at  war  with  the 
other  half,  since  Bula  and  his  people  had  favoured  Chris- 
tianity, Ukenezo  and  his  people  clung  to  heathenism. 
They  were  also  the  occasion  for  the  entrance  into  Lifu  of 
Roman  Catholicism. 


4T4         EXTENSION  IN  WESTERN  POLYNESIA 

As  soon  as  he  had  mastered  the  language,  Mr.  Macfarlane 
felt  the  ereat  need  of  more  native  workers.  Like  his 
predecessors  at  Rarotonga  and  Malua,  he  instituted 
a  seminary  where  natives  might  be  properly  trained. 
A  single  code  of  laws  was  drawn  up,  and  sanctioned  by 
Buia's  son  and  his  chief  for  the  eastern  half  of  the  island. 
Ukenezo  objected  to  such  a  code  for  his  half,  but  ultimately 
the  under-chiefs  and  the  priests  persuaded  him  to  accept 
one  they  drew  up. 

In  May,  1864,  French  soldiers  landed  and  established 
a  camp  at  Enu,  a  village  about  half  a  mile  from  Chepenehe, 
the  chief  eastern  native  station,  where  Mr.  Macfarlane  lived. 
At  the  instigation  of  those  natives  who  were  under  Roman 
Catholic  influence,  it  was  only  too  easy  to  cause  distur- 
bance ;  and  by  the  assertion  on  the  part  of  the  French  of 
absolute  authority  over  both  the  island  and  the  natives,  it 
was  easy  to  put  the  latter  constantly  in  the  wrong.  This 
was  the  course  of  events  for  the  next  few  years  in  Lifu. 
Christian  work  was  almost  entirely  stopped,  the  natives 
were  oppressed,  many  were  killed,  many  imprisoned,  the 
liberty  even  of  Mr.  Macfarlane  and  his  colleague  Mr.  Sleigh 
was  very  greatly  curtailed,  and  matters  reached  such  a  pass 
that  the  English  missionaries  were  not  allowed  to  officiate 
in  any  public  capacity,  but  were  not  hindered  from  ren- 
dering service  to  the  mission  as  'private  English  residents.' 

Meanwhile  the  Directors  and  friends  of  missions  in 
England,  anxious  and  alarmed  at  the  tidings  sent  home 
from  both  Mare  and  Lifu,  were  not  idle.  In  reply  to 
influential  representations  laid  before  Napoleon  III,  the 
emperor  sent  a  letter  under  date  of  Jan.  24,  1865,  in 
which  he  states  :  '  I  am  writing  to  Commandant  Guillain 
(N'cw  Caledonia)  to  censure  any  measure  which  would 
impose  a  restraint  upon  the  free  exercise  of  your  industry 
in  those  distant  lands.  I  feel  assured  that,  far  from  raising 
any  difficulties  in  the  way  of  the  representatives  of  French 
authority,  the  Protestant  missions,  as  well  as  the  Catholic, 
will  seek  to  diffuse  among  the  natives  of  the  archipelago 
the  benefits  of  Christianity  and  civilization.' 


FRENCH  INFLUENCE  AT  LIFU  415 

To  promise  liberty  of  conscience  in  Paris  was  easy  ; 
unfortunately  it  was  also  easy  for  the  officials  of  the 
emperor  in  distant  Lifu  to  interpret  the  meaning  of  that 
phrase  practically  as  they  liked.  Hence  though  matters 
improved  somewhat  on  the  receipt  of  the  emperor's  in- 
structions, the  local  commandant  and  the  resident  priests 
still  ruled  the  Lifuans  very  much  as  they  liked.  Remon- 
strances were  in  the  long  run  sufficiently  powerful  to  lead 
the  French  Government  in  1869  to  send  out  a  Commission. 
Much  of  the  value  of  this  was  lost  by  the  fact  that  the 
commandant  whose  high-handed  action  was  the  cause  of 
most  of  the  trouble  was  a  member  of  the  Commission. 
Nevertheless  as  a  result  of  their  visit  the  Governor  of  Lifu 
was  recalled  and  replaced  by  a  civilian,  and  a  new  governor 
appointed  to  New  Caledonia.  But  in  1869  the  French 
Government  had  demanded  the  removal  of  Mr.  Macfarlane, 
and  after  a  lengthy  diplomatic  correspondence  between 
the  French  and  British  Governments,  the  Directors  ap- 
pointed him,  in  company  with  Mr.  A.  W.  Murray,  to  visit 
New  Guinea  with  a  view  to  opening  up  mission  work  there. 
He  left  Lifu  in  1871,  and  was  succeeded  by  Mr.  Creagh 
from  Mare.  Under  him  and  Mr.  Sleigh  the  work  was 
carried  on  until  1886,  when  Mr.  Creagh  retired  after  thirty- 
four  years'  service  in  the  Loyalty  group.  Mr.  Hadfield 
from  Uvea  took  his  place,  and  as  Mr.  Sleigh  also  retired  in 
1887,  the  Loyalty  Islands  were  left  with  but  one  resident 
English  missionary.  Consequently  the  state  of  affairs  has 
been  very  unsatisfactory  during  recent  years,  and  is  not 
unlikely  so  to  continue.  The  natives  are  not  yet  sufficiently 
developed  to  be  able  to  stand  alone.  The  residence  of 
foreigners  in  the  islands  has  produced  a  large  class  of  half- 
castes,  who  are  vicious  both  in  origin  and  practice,  and  who 
form  a  permanent  element  of  demoralization.  French 
influence,  and  especially  that  of  New  Caledonia,  is  ex- 
tremely hostile  to  morality.  The  natives  in  this  respect  are, 
in  the  opinion  of  competent  judges,  distinctly  worse  than 
they  were  years  ago.  Notwithstanding  all  these  hindrances. 
a  fair  amount  of  life  and  vigour  abides  in  the  native  church. 


4i6  EXTENSION  IN   WESTERN  POLYNESIA 

On  that  island  in  1895  the  Society  had  5.659  adherents, 
of  whom  2,450  could  read,  868  of  the  latter  being  children : 
on  Uvea,  712  adherents,  510  able  to  read,  of  whom 
J40  are  children.  Lifu  in  1895  contributed  A47  lO-^- 
to  the  Society,   in  addition  to  a   Centenary   contribution 

of  £75- 

The  island  of  Uvea  shared   the  fate  of  its  neighbours. 

This  is  a  group  of  little  coral  islets  rather  than  one  island, 
and  is  one  of  the  loveliest  in  Polynesia.  Natives  from 
i\Iare  brought  the  Gospel  thither  in  1856;  French  priests 
arrived  in  1857.  In  i860  Mr.  Macfarlane  visited  Uvea, 
and  found  the  mission  work  steadily  progressing,  notwith- 
standing the  hostile  influence  and  action  of  the  priests. 
The  Rev.  J.  Jones  landed  there  in  1863,  and  found  that 
further  progress  had  been  made,  and  that  the  natives  were 
more  eager  than  ever  for  a  resident  missionary.  The 
missionary  first  appointed  by  the  Directors,  the  Rev. 
Alexander  Irvine,  died  at  Sydney  from  the  result  of  an 
accident  during  his  voyage  thither.  In  1864  Mr.  Ella, 
who  had  been  compelled  by  Mrs.  Ella's  health  to  leave 
Samoa,  came  to  the  Loyalty  group,  hoping  to  work  as 
missionary  for  Uvea.  The  French  commandant  of  Lifu 
refused  to  allow  him  to  settle  there  as  missionary,  but 
finally  permitted  him  to  live  on  Uvea  as  an  English 
resident.  It  was  not  until  1865  that  he  was  allowed  to 
begin  public  religious  work.  Opposition  and  persecution  of 
the  kind  common  in  Lifu  and  Mare  at  the  same  time,  and  in 
.some  respects  even  more  violent,  greatly  hindered  all  Pro- 
testant mission  work  on  Uvea  until  1869,  when,  as  a  result 
of  the  visit  of  the  P^rench  Commission,  the  conditions  of 
work  became  more  tolerable. 

In  1879  the  Rev.  J.  Hadfield  became  the  first  resident 
missionary,  and  in  1887,  just  after  he  had  taken  up  the 
work  on  Lifu,  he  was  able  to  write  : — 

'  The  work  on  Uvea  has  been  steadily  prosecuted,  and 
a  fair  share  of  advancement  has  been  made  in  every  branch. 
I  have  observed  a  growing  desire  for  instruction  both 
among  young  and  old.     Mr.  Creagh  left  in  the  institution 


NIUE  417 

for  training  native  teachers,  ten ;  I  have  now  fifteen.  The 
people  have  had  a  sad  experience  of  persecution  and  trial. 
No  wonder  they  feel  some  fear  and  uncertainty  as  to  the 
future.  Their  past  sufferings  have  not,  however,  been  en- 
dured in  vain,  but  they  have  rendered  them  more  earnest 
and  self-sacrificing.' 

III.  NlUE  OR  Savage  Island.  Like  many  other  islets 
in  the  vast  Pacific,  Niue  or  Savage  Island  has  no  claim  upon 
the  world's  attention  either  by  reason  of  exceptional  beauty, 
commercial  importance,  or  vastness  of  population.  It  is 
an  ordinary  coral  island,  lying  between  18°  and  19"  south 
latitude,  and  170°  west  longitude.  It  is  about  350  miles 
south-east  of  Samoa,  is  about  forty  miles  in  circumference, 
and  has  a  population  of  from  4.000  to  5,000.  But  to  those 
who  judge  men  and  things  in  the  light  of  the  Gospel,  it 
is  one  of  the  most  attractive  spots  in  the  world.  Few 
more  powerful  examples  of  the  transforming  influence  of 
Christianity  can  be  found  on  the  globe. 

The  name  by  which  it  is  commonly  known  was  given 
to  the  island  by  Captain  Cook,  who  tells  us  that  the  natives 
rushed  upon  him  like  wild  boars.  The  first  missionary 
visit,  after  John  Williams'  unsuccessful  attempt  to  get 
a  footing  in  1830,  was  in  1840,  when  another  attempt, 
this  time  from  Samoa,  to  plant  native  teachers  upon  the 
island  was  unsuccessfully  made.  In  October,  1846,  the 
Rev.  W.  Gill  and  Rev.  H.  Nisbet  called  at  Niue  in  the 
John  Williams,  and  were  able  to  station  there  a  teacher, 
Peniamina  by  name,  a  native  of  the  island.  For  some 
years  previously,  tidings  of  what  had  happened  at  Samoa 
and  elsewhere  had  reached  even  the  Savage  Islanders. 
Although  dread  of  disease  led  them  to  keep  all  foreigners 
at  arm's  length,  curiosity  stirred  many  of  their  breasts. 
Peniamina  one  day  went  on  board  an  American  whaler, 
found  it  was  going  to  Samoa,  and  prevailed  on  the  kindly 
captain  to  take  him  there.  The  captain  handed  him  over 
on  his  arrival  to  Mr.  Mills.  He  was  placed  at  Malua.  and 
there  received  the  instruction  which  rendered  him  capable 

I.  p:  e 


4i8        EXTENSION  IN  WESTERN  POLYNESIA 

of  preparing  the  way  for  the  Christian  missionary  into  the 
hitherto  inaccessible  island. 

On  his  return  from  Samoa,  he  was  allowed  to  land,  and 
although  a  native  of  the  island,  Peniamina  was  yet  not  free 
from  danger.  A  Savage  Islander  who  went  away  and 
then  returned,  was  considered  by  his  fellow  islanders  a 
foreigner,  and  was  exposed  to  the  same  treatment.  As 
soon  as  he  landed,  many  wished  to  put  him  to  death,  and 
to  send  back  even  the  canoe  in  which  he  came  ashore, 
lest  the  foreign  wood  should  cause  disease  among  them. 
But  Peniamina  told  his  fellow  islanders  the  new  and 
glorious  truths  he  had  learned  at  Malua.  Still  many 
wished  to  kill  him,  and  it  w^as  with  very  great  difficulty 
that  any  one  was  persuaded  to  give  him  shelter.  In  1848 
Messrs.  Turner  and  Nisbet  visited  the  island,  and  found 
but  few  signs  of  progress.  In  October,  1849,  ^^'-  Murray 
called  at  Nine,  and  discovered  that  although  Peniamina 
had  been  the  pioneer,  he  was  not  of  the  spiritual  rank  of 
Papeiha,  Elikana,  and  others.  A  teacher  named  Paulo  and 
his  wife  were  landed.  They  had  been  carefully  trained  at 
Malua.  With  all  his  imperfections, Peniamina  had  succeeded 
in  attaching  a  few  to  himself,  and  had  conveyed  to  them 
some  knowledge  of  Christianity.  With  these  Paulo  began 
his  work.  Mr.  Murray  took  back  with  him  two  natives  who 
were  very  eager  to  visit  Samoa.  In  1852  Mr.  Murray 
and  Mr.  Sunderland  again  visited  Niue.  The  teacher  and 
his  wife  had  passed  through  many  trials  and  some  imminent 
perils.  But  they  had  won  over  nearly  300  to  Christianity, 
and  these  stood  by  them.  A  chapel  had  been  built.  On 
this  visit  a  second  station  was  made  at  a  place  called  Alofi, 
and  the  two  natives  who  had  gone  to  Samoa  in  1849  were 
appointed  to  work  there.  In  1852  a  French  man-of-war, 
which  had  called  at  Savage  Island  for  the  crew  of  a  ship 
which  had  been  wrecked  upon  the  reef,  on  account  of 
a  theft  illtreated  the  natives,  causing  the  death  of  fifteen, 
among  whom  was  a  chief  who  had  just  before  taken 
Paulo  under  his  protection.  This  hasty  and  cruel  action 
might  have  led   to   the  destruction  of  the  mission  party. 


W.   C.  LA  WES   ON  NIUE  419 

Fortunately  the  hold  upon  the  people  which  the  teachers 
had  gained  was  now  such  that  the  heathen  drew  a  distinc- 
tion between  them  and  foreigners  visiting  the  island  for 
other  than  missionary  purposes. 

Meanwhile  Christian  work  went  steadily  forward,  suc- 
cessive visits  of  the  John  Williams  marking  advancing 
stages  of  Christian  development.  In  1854  Mr.  Hardie 
wrote  :  '  The  people  now  go  from  part  to  part  without  fear, 
and  the  teachers  can  work  everywhere,  and  are  kindly 
treated.  To  use  the  words  of  one  of  them,  "The  mountains 
of  difficulty  are  now  all  removed,  and  the  Word  of  God  is 
growing,  and  will  grow,  rapidly  in  this  land."  ' 

In  1 86 1  the  Rev.  W.  G.  Lawes,  who  has  since  become 
famous  in  connection  with  the  New  Guinea  Mission,  was 
appointed  first  resident  missionary.  The  selection  was 
both  wise  and  timely- wise  as  to  the  quality  of  the  new 
worker ;  timely,  if  the  natives  were  to  be  lifted  still  higher 
in  Christian  life  and  civilization.  The  native  teachers  had 
done  magnificent  work,  and  one  had  fallen  a  martyr. 
Mr.  Lawes,  writing  home  in  April,  1862,  says — 

'  The  more  we  see  and  know  of  the  people,  the  more 
we  are  convinced  that  God  has  been  working  mightily  in 
their  midst.  Distinguished  in  former  times  for  their  savage 
cruelty,  they  are  now  no  less  distinguished  for  their  zeal 
in  the  cause  of  God.  When  we  came  seven  or  eight  only 
were  heathen ;  these  have  since  renounced  heathenism. 
Fifteen  years  ago  a  foreigner  would  not  have  dared  to  land, 
nor  been  suffered  to  live  on  the  island.  Now  foreigners 
are  treated  with  hospitality  and  kindness.  Fifteen  years 
ago  they  lived  in  the  bush  like  brutes  ;  now,  in  plastered 
cottages  and  villages.  Fifteen  years  ago  anarchy,  war, 
and  bloodshed  prevailed  throughout  the  island ;  now,  law, 
order,  and  peace.  Fifteen  years  ago  they  had  no  written 
language;  now,  they  have  the  Gospel  and  other  books, 
with  two  tJiotisaiid  readers.  Fifteen  years  ago  they  were 
all  before  God  dead  in  sin  ;  now,  there  are  360  in  church 
fellowship,  living  to  His  glory,  besides  many  who.  we  have 
reason  to  hope,  are  new  creatures  in  Christ  Jesus.' 

E  e  2 


420       EXTENSION  IN   WESTERN  POLYNESIA 

Mr.  Lawes  directed  the  work  on  Niue  alone  until  1868, 
when  he  was  joined  by  his  brother,  the  Rev.  F.  E.  Lawes. 
During  these  seven  years  of  solitary  toil  he  superintended 
the  public  worship,  directed  the  native  teachers,  conducted 
a  training  class  for  them,  and  devoted  much  time  and 
labour  to  the  important  task  of  Scripture  translation.  He 
acquired  the  language  rapidly.  '  I  read  my  first  sermon  after 
we  had  been  here  nine  weeks,  and  preached  my  first  seven 
months  after  we  landed.  I  have  conversed  individually 
with  260  candidates  for  church  fellowship.  This  helps  me 
greatly  in  the  acquisition  of  the  language,  and  gives  me  an 
insight  into  the  workings  of  the  native  mind.' 

In  1872  Mr.  Lawes  visited  England  on  furlough,  and 
was  then  appointed  to  New  Guinea,  whither  he  sailed  in 
1874.  Since  1872  the  Rev.  F.  E.  Lawes,  the  brother  of  the 
Rev.  W.  G.  Lawes,  has  been  in  sole  charge  of  the  mission. 
Owing  probably  to  its  being  on  none  of  the  commercial 
highways  of  the  Pacific,  and  not  attractive  enough  in  itself 
to  draw  thither  many  vessels.  Christian  work  for  the  last 
twenty-five  years  has  gone  steadily  and  prosperously  for- 
ward. The  statistics  for  the  year  1895,  in  the  light  of  the 
facts  already  given,  reveal  what  has  been  the  Christian 
history  of  Niue. 


English  missionaries  . 

Native  teachers  ordained 

Native  preachers 

Church  members 

Native  adherents 

Schools 

Scholars,  boys  and  girls 


1 
II 

27 
1730 
2683 

1500 


Contributions  to  the  Society  ;^6j8  8.y.  M. 

IV.  The  Tokelau  or  Union  Group  lies  about  300 
miles  to  the  north  of  Samoa,  and  consists  of  three  clusters, 
each  forming  an  atoll.  In  1861  Mr.  Ella  of  the  Samoan 
Mission  stationed  two  teachers,  Maka  and  Mafala  by 
name,  on  the  island  of  Atafu  (Duke  of  York  Island).     They 


THE   TOKELAU  GROUP  421 

were  successful  at  once,  and  in  1862  two  double  canoes 
visited  Nukunono  (Duke  of  Clarence  Island),  to  persuade 
the  natives  there  to  accept  the  new  teaching.  They  found 
that  French  priests  had  successfully  established  Romanism 
on  that  island,  so,  after  spending  five  days  there,  they  sailed 
away  to  Fakaofo  (Bowditch  Island).  There  they  spent 
a  fortnight.  The  king  and  his  chief  counsellor  alone 
opposed  Christianity,  but  as  the  king  was  obdurate  and 
ruled  that  all  who  wished  to  become  Christians  must 
go  and  live  on  Atafu,  six  double  canoes,  containing  eighteen 
men,  fifteen  women,  and  twenty-three  children,  sailed  away 
with  Mafala  and  his  two  canoes.  They  reached  Nukunono 
in  safety,  but  on  their  way  from  that  island  to  Atafu  were 
caught  in  bad  weather,  and  compelled  to  make  for 
Samoa,  300  miles  distant.  At  Apia  they  were  received 
with  great  kindness,  and  finally  carried  safely  back  to 
Atafu.  They  were  accompanied  by  Messrs.  Wyatt  Gill 
and  P.  Goold  Bird,  who  in  their  report,  dated  February  13, 
1863,  refer  to  the  fact  that  heathenism  had  been  practically 
overthrown  in  the  group,  polygamy  abolished,  and  a  chapel 
built.  '  Such,'  they  say,  '  are  the  results  of  the  labours 
of  two  devoted  native  teachers  among  a  people  who  were 
a  year  since  heathens.  These  poor  islanders  shame  many 
who  have  long  enjoyed  higher  privileges.' 

During  the  last  half-century  mission  work  has  been 
steadily  maintained  in  this  group.  In  1870  they  were 
visited  by  the  Rev.  S.  J.  Whitmee,  who  thus  writes  of  the 
state  of  Fakaofo,  the  island  where  the  king  in  1862  would 
not  allow  his  people  to  remain  if  they  became  Christians. 
'The  whole  visit  was  deeply  interesting  to  me,  especiall}- 
the  church  meeting  and  the  Lord's  Supper.  I  was  much 
pleased  with  the  general  intelligence  of  the  people,  and 
especially  the  knowledge  of  Divine  truth  which  some  of 
them  manifested.  Nearly  all  the  Protestants  are  able  to 
read  the  Scriptures.'  The  state  of  Atafu  was  at  this  time 
equally  satisfactory. 

The  steamer  which  in  189^  replaced  the  third  John 
Williams  should   greatly   increase  the   efficiency  of  these 


422        EXTENSION  IN   WESTERN  POLYNESIA 

distant  out-stations.  The  islands  can  now  be  visited  at 
least  twice  a  year,  and  thus  unsuitable  native  teachers  may 
be  the  more  speedily  removed,  the  gaps  made  by  disease 
and  death  more  quickly  filled,  and  successful  work  made 
even  more  prosperous  by  the  moral  support  and  useful 
advice  of  the  European  missionary  being  available  at 
shorter  intervals. 

V.  The  Ellice  Islands.  The  incidents  which  led  to 
the  beginning  of  Christian  work  in  the  Ellice  Islands  are 
among  the  most  romantic  and  surprising  in  the  marvellous 
story  of  the  Pacific.  On  April  22,  186 j,  a  canoe  left  the 
island  of  Manihiki  in  the  Penrhyn  group,  from  1,200  to 
1,500  miles  east  of  the  Ellice  Islands,  intending  to  cross 
to  Rakaanga,  only  thirty  miles  away.  It  contained  six 
men,  two  women,  and  one  child,  who  had  been  attending 
the  annual  '  May  meeting'  at  Manihiki. 

'  The  craft  in  which  the  party  sailed  consisted  of  two 
canoes  lashed  together  by  means  of  transverse  spars. 
Over  these  boards  were  laid,  which  formed  a  sort  of  deck, 
and  on  that  was  a  shed  covered  with  the  braided  leaf  of 
the  cocoa-nut,  which  afforded  a  shelter  from  the  sun  and 
rain.  The  canoes  were  about  forty-eight  feet  in  length, 
and  the  platform  was  six  feet  in  breadth.  There  was  one 
large  sail  of  native  matting,  and  two  small  calico  sails. 
The  provision  for  the  voyage  consisted  of  a  quantity  of 
cocoa-nuts,  and  four  calabashes  of  water  (perhaps  about 
two  gallons).  They  commenced  their  voyage  with  a  fair 
wind,  and  all  went  smoothly  till  they  were  within  a  few 
miles  of  their  destination.  They  were  so  near  that  they 
could  discern  the  sandy  beach  and  the  houses  along  the 
coast.  An  hour  more  of  fair  wind,  and  they  would  have 
been  safely  landed.  A  sudden  change  of  wind  dashed 
their  hopes,  and  was  the  first  of  a  series  of  perils  and 
sufferings  which  has  few  recorded  parallels  in  our  missionary 
annals  ^ 

'  For  a  while  they  strove  to  reach  kakaanga,  but  finding 

'  J or/y  }'ears  in  Polynesia,  by  A.  W.  Murray,  pp.  375  et  seq. 


THE  ELLICE  ISLANDS  423 

that  impracticable,  they  changed  their  course  with  the 
intention  of  returning  to  Manihiki ;  but  this  being  low,  was 
not  in  sight,  and  Rakaanga  was  soon  lost  sight  of,  and 
so  night  overtook  them  in  the  open  ocean  and  out  of  sight 
of  land.  They  kept  on  all  night,  supposing  that  they  were 
making  their  way  toward  Manihiki;  but  when  morning 
dawned,  neither  Manihiki  nor  any  other  land  was  to  be 
seen.  And  what  a  plight  was  theirs !  Afloat  on  their 
frail  craft,  with  only  cocoa-nuts  and  about  two  gallons 
of  water,  on  the  great,  wide  sea,  without  chart  or  compass, 
and  altogether  uncertain  as  to  their  position  !  They  held 
a  consultation  and  determined  to  abandon  the  search  for 
Manihiki,  and  stand  to  the  south,  in  the  hope  of  making 
Rarotonga  or  Samoa,  or  some  other  land  in  that  direction. 
Three  men  of  the  six  were  required  to  be  always  on  duty 
to  keep  the  canoe  afloat,  one  to  steer  and  two  to  bale  ; 
so  they  divided  themselves  into  two  watches,  and  kept 
on,  day  and  night,  at  their  weary,  monotonous  task.  They 
kept  steering  southward  till  Friday,  the  seventh  day  from 
the  commencement  of  their  voyage,  when  a  strong  southerly 
wind  set  in  which  prevented  their  getting  farther  in  that 
direction.  This  continued  till  Sabbath,  when  it  fell  calm. 
Then  came  a  westerly  wind,  and  other  changes  followed j 
but  brought  them  no  relief. 

•  On  the  following  Friday,  about  noon,  they  sighted  land. 
They  strove  with  all  their  might  to  reach  the  land,  and  got 
very  near  it ;  but  the  weather  was  squally,  night  overtook 
them,  and  their  efforts  were  fruitless.  One  thing,  however, 
they  gained  by  getting  near  land,  which  was  to  them  of 
priceless  value.  A  copious  shower  of  rain  fell,  and  they 
managed,  with  the  aid  of  their  sails,  to  obtain  a  supply 
of  water. 

On  the  following  day  they  again  sighted  land,  but  were 
unable  to  reach  it  on  account  of  the  roughness  of  the 
weather.  They  kept  on  guiding  the  movements  of  the 
canoe  till  the  following  Monday,  when  they  gave  them- 
selves up  pretty  much  to  the  winds  and  currents,  or  rather 
to  the  providence  of  God,  to  be  carried  where  that  might 


424        EXTENSION  IN  WESTERN  POLYNESIA 

conduct  them.  Now  and  again  one  would  take  a  spell 
at  the  steer-oar,  but,  being  uncertain  as  to  whether  any 
advantage  would  be  derived  from  so  doing,  there  was  no 
motive  of  sufficient  power  to  prompt  to  persevering  effort. 
Thus  they  went  on  from  day  to  day  for  six  weary  weeks,  and 
then  a  consultation  was  held,  and  it  was  proposed  that  they 
should  give  up  exertion,  and  resign  themselves  to  what 
seemed  to  be  their  inevitable  fate.  But  hope  was  not  yet 
extinct  in  the  bosoms  of  all.  One  stated  that  he  felt  able 
to  go  on  baling  for  a  little  longer  if  another  would  join 
him.  It  would  have  been  useless  for  one  to  go  on  alone. 
While  he  was  baling  the  one  canoe  the  other  would  fill 
and  sink  both.  One  of  the  canoes  was  less  leaky  than  the 
other,  and  another  of  the  party  volunteered  to  do  his  best 
to  keep  that  afloat.  But  now  only  six  cocoa-nuts  re- 
mained, and  those  who  kept  at  work,  and  on  whose 
continued  exertions  the  lives  of  all  depended,  must  have 
support.  Hence  it  was  agreed  that  the  six  cocoa-nuts 
should  be  kept  for  them.  The  others  had  to  subsist  as 
best  they  could  on  scraps  that  had  been  thrown  aside 
during  the  early  part  of  the  voyage.  They  caught  two 
sharks  and  one  sea-bird  during  the  course  of  the  voyage. 

'  For  nearly  two  weeks  longer  they  lingered  on,  the  two 
balers  exerting  themselves  most  bravely,  while  the  others 
quietly  awaited  the  issue.  During  the  whole  voyage  they 
had  worship  regularly,  morning  and  evening,  and  on  the 
Sabbath  they  had  services  somewhat  more  protracted. 
Four  of  the  party  were  members  of  the  Church,  and  one, 
Klikana,  was  a  deacon.  On  the  eighth  Sabbath  matters 
reached  a  crisis.  Only  half  a  cocoa-nut  remained  for  the 
balers,  and  when  that  was  consumed  nothing  further  could 
be  done.  They  had  finished  their  Sabbath  evening 
worship ;  they  concluded  that  the  end  had  come,  and 
committed  themselves  into  the  hands  of  God,  to  wait 
His  will.  The  evening  was  calm  and  beautiful,  and  the 
sky  without  a  cloud.  Klikana  looked  round  the  horizon — 
one  more  despairing  look— before  what  was  expected  to  be 
their  last   night  closed  in  upon  them.     Eagerly  scanning 


ELI K ANA'S   VOYAGE  425 

the  horizon,  something  having  the  appearance  of  land 
caught  his  eye  !  Nothing  similar  was  to  be  seen  in  any 
other  part  of  the  heavens,  and  soon  all  were  satisfied  that 
what  they  saw  was  in  very  deed  land.  But  they  had  seen 
land  before,  and  been  near  it  too,  more  than  once,  and  had 
failed  to  reach  it,  and  so  it  might  be  again  ;  especially  was 
this  to  be  dreaded  as  a  squall  of  wind  sprung  up  soon  after 
the  land  was  discovered.  The  wind,  however,  brought 
a  shower  of  rain,  which  was  as  life  from  the  dead.  They 
drank,  and  were  refreshed  and  strengthened  for  a  final 
effort  to  save  their  lives  ;  but  the  wind  that  brought  the 
rain  was  from  the  land,  and  should  it  continue  so,  the  last 
door  of  hope  had  closed.  It  was  not  so,  however.  The 
wnnd  that  brought  the  rain  was  only  a  passing  squall. 
They  had  one  sail  remaining  ;  this  they  hoisted  and  ran 
straight  in  for  the  land.  On  they  went^  and  towards  mid- 
night their  frail  craft  was  close  to  the  reef,  and  very  soon  they 
were  among  the  breakers  ;  but  on  they  went,  roller  after 
roller  bearing  them  onward,  till  the  welcome  shore  was 
reached.  One  woman  and  one  man  and  the  child,  after 
surviving  all  the  perils  and  hardships  of  the  voyage,  perished 
among  the  breakers  ;  and  soon  after  the  canoe  had  grounded 
another  died.  The  remaining  five  were  saved,  and  one 
of  these  was  Elikana,  who  was  destined  to  act  an  important 
part  in  the  evangelization  of  the  islands,  on  the  shores 
of  one  of  which  he  and  his  fellows  were  now  cast. 

'The  island  which  the  voyagers  made  was  Nukulaelae 
of  the  EUice  group.  They  were  of  course  greatly  ex- 
hausted— so  much  so,  that  though  cocoa-nuts  were  hanging 
over  their  heads  they  were  unable  to  reach  them.  The 
morning  light,  however,  brought  relief.  They  were  soon  dis- 
covered by  a  native  named  Faivaatala.  He  had  occasion  to 
visit  the  island,  Tumuiloto,  on  which  they  landed,  on  the 
morning  after  the  memorable  night  when  they  made  the  land. 
Passing  near  the  spot  where  they  were,  his  attention  was 
attracted  by  seeing  articles  of  wearing  apparel  on  the 
bushes.  Going  down  to  the  beach,  he  found  a  man  dead, 
lying  on   the  sand.     He    stripped  off  his  own    shirt    and 


426        EXTENSION  IN  WESTERN  POLYNESIA 

wrapped  it  around  the  body,  and  removed  it  a  little  inland. 
The  survivors  were  soon  found,  and  their  affecting  tale 
told.  The  situation  was  such  as  would  have  moved 
a  much  less  feeling  heart  than  that  of  Faivaatala.  They 
were  in  a  famishing  state.  No  time  was  lost  in  supplying 
them  with  cocoa-nuts  ;  and,  that  done,  Faivaatala  pro- 
ceeded to  get  food  cooked  for  them,  after  which  he  went 
for  help  and  canoes  in  order  to  get  them  to  the  settlement. 
When  he  returned,  a  grave  was  dug  and  the  dead  buried, 
and  then  all  proceeded  to  Motutala,  the  island  on  which 
the  people  generally  live. 

'  In  return  for  their  kindness,  Elikana  set  to  work  to 
instruct  them  in  the  knowledge  of  the  true  God,  and  told 
them  of  the  Saviour  whom  he  had  learned  to  love  and 
trust.  They  manifested  a  great  desire  and  aptitude  to 
learn,  and  applied  themselves  with  the  utmost  diligence 
while  he  remained  among  them,  and  they  consented  to  his 
leaving  them  after  four  months,  only  on  condition  that  he 
should  go  to  Samoa  and  return  to  them  with  a  teacher. 
This  he  was  enabled  to  do,  but  four  years  passed,  three 
of  which  were  spent  in  training  Elikana  himself  at  Malua.' 

The  island  or  group  of  islets  named  Nukulaelae,  known  in 
the  earlier  charts  as  Mitchell's  Islands,  lies  in  lat.  9°  1 8'  S.  and 
long.  i79''48'E.,  about  600  miles  from  Savaii.  The  other 
chief  members  of  the  Ellice  group  are  Funafuti  (Ellice 
Island),  thirty-one  islets  in  an  immense  circular  reef,  sixty 
miles  north  of  Nukulaelae  ;  Nukufetau  (De  Peyster  Island), 
similar  to  Funafuti  only  smaller;  Vaitupu  (Tracy  Island), 
a  single  island  four  miles  long  and  three  wide  ;  and  Nui 
(Nethcrland  Island).  Upon  Vaitupu,  about  two  centuries 
before  Elikana  was  drifted  to  Nukulaelae,  Samoans  had 
landed,  and  hence  the  language  and  associations  of  the 
group  are  those  of  Samoa.  On  May  3,  1865,  Mr.  Murray 
sailed  from  Apia  upon  the  first  missionary  visit  to  the 
I'^llice  group.  He  carried  with  him  two  Samoan  teachers 
and  their  wives  and  Elikana.  On  IVJay  10  the  tiny  vessel, 
a  trader  of  fifty  tons,  anchored  outside  the  reef  of  Nuku- 
laelae. 


SLAVERS  AT  NUKULAELAE  427 

'  The  people  were  surprised  and  delighted  to  see  their 
old  friend  Elikana,  and  they  gave  us  all  a  hearty  welcome  ; 
but  events  had  transpired  since  1861  which  cast  a  sad 
gloom  over  our  meeting.  At  that  time  there  was  a  popu- 
lation of  three  hundred,  a  peaceful,  harmless  community, 
wanting  just  one  thing  to  make  them  contented  and  happy, 
and  many  of  them  earnestly  desirous  of  being  put  in 
possession  of  that  one  thing.  Now  they  were  reduced 
to  a  remnant  considerably  under  one  hundred,  and  the 
bulk  of  these  were  women  and  children.  The  iniquitous 
Peruvian  slavers  came  upon  them  like  beasts  of  prey,  and 
carried  off  about  two  hundred  to  bondage  and  death. 
Nowhere,  perhaps,  did  these  infamous  men  act  more  basely 
than  at  this  and  the  neighbouring  group,  Funafuti.  They 
first  endeavoured  to  induce  the  people  to  go  with  them, 
by  putting  before  them  the  temporal  advantages  which 
they  pretended  they  would  gain  by  so  doing ;  and  when 
they  found  that  they  could  not  accomplish  their  object 
in  that  way,  they,  guided  by  a  wicked  fellow  who  had 
resided  on  the  island  some  time,  named  Tom  Rose,  took 
advantage  of  the  desire  that  existed  among  the  people  for 
religious  instruction,  telling  them  that,  if  they  would  go 
with  them,  they  would  take  them  to  a  place  where  they 
would  learn  about  God  and  religion,  and  after  a  time  bring 
them  back  to  their  own  land.  Tom  Rose  had  been  acting 
as  a  sort  of  religious  teacher,  and  he  was  going  to  ship 
in  one  of  the  vessels.  Hence  it  is  not  surprising  that  they 
fell  into  the  trap  so  cruelly  laid  for  them  ^ 

'  Thus  was  this  base  transaction  accomplished,  and  these 
poor  people  deceived  away  from  their  quiet  homes.  Alas ! 
for  them.  Surely  He  who  hcareth  the  groaning  of  the 
prisoner,  and  delivereth  them  who  are  appointed  to  die, 
did  not  forsake  them  in  the  hour  of  their  sore  affliction. 
It  is  an  affecting  and  deeply  interesting  fact  that  they 
carried  with  them  to  the  land  of  bondage,  as  their  most 
prized  treasures,  portions  of  the  Rarotongan  New  Testa- 
ment  and    Hymn   Book,   which    they  had   obtained   from 

*  J'orty  Years  in  Polynesia^  pp.  381  et  seq. 


428        EXTENSION  IN  IVES  TERN  POLYNESIA 

Elikana.  These  he  had  managed  to  save  when  he  and  his 
companions  were  cast  upon  their  shores,  and  so  eager 
were  the  people  to  learn  to  read,  and  to  become  acquainted 
with  the  truths  which  the  books  contained,  that  they 
constrained  him  to  take  them  to  pieces,  and  divide  them 
out,  giving  a  few  leaves  to  each,  as  far  as  they  would 
go.  As  Elikana  put  the  question  to  one  after  another 
among  the  women  we  met,  "Where  is  this  one?  and  where 
is  the  other  ?  "  the  unvarying  reply  was  : — *  Gone,  gone  ; 
carried  away  by  the  men-stealing  ships." 

'  After  consulting  with  the  chief,  who,  being  an  old  man, 
had  been  rejected  by  the  slavers,  and  the  few  others  who 
remained,  and  finding  them  earnestly  desirous  of  having 
a  teacher,  I  determined  to  leave  with  them  one  of  the  three 
at  my  disposal,  loane  and  his  wife,  notwithstanding  the 
smallness  of  their  number. 

'  It  is  a  remarkable  fact  that,  a  number  of  years  before 
Elikana  was  conducted  to  the  group  in  so  remarkable 
a  manner,  the  people  of  it,  and  several  other  of  the  islands 
(groups)  with  which  it  is  connected,  had  burnt  their  idols 
and  ceased  to  be  idolaters.  Hence  the  prepared  state  in 
which  he  found  them,  and  the  cordial  welcome  which  he 
and  his  companions  received.  All  I  could  learn  respecting 
the  origin  of  a  movement  so  strange  among  a  heathen 
people  was,  that  the  master  of  a  trading  vessel,  named 
Stuart,  from  Sydney,  had  told  them  of  the  true  God, 
and  advised  them  to  turn  from  idolatry  and  worship  Him. 
All  honour  to  the  man  who,  at  this  and  other  islands  in 
the  neighbourhood,  sought  to  turn  the  benighted  people 
from  the  service  of  idols  to  that  of  the  living  God. 

'  It  was  a  vast  advantage  also  in  carrying  on  evangelistic 
work  in  the  EUice  group,  that  the  language  differs  so  little 
from  the  Samoan,  that  our  translations  of  the  Scriptures 
and  other  books  were  available,  and  that  our  teachers  were 
able  to  speak  intelligibly  to  the  people  almost  at  once.' 

Funafuti  was  next  visited,  and  a  teacher  landed  there  ; 
then  Nukufetau,  where  a  chapel  45  feet  by  40  had  been 
built    by   the    natives,    and    attempts    made    to    conduct 


THE   GILBERT  ISLANDS  429 

services,  and  here  Elikana  was  stationed.  Vaitupu  and 
Nui  were  also  visited,  and  at  both  islands  Mr.  Murray  was 
deeply  grieved  at  not  being  able  to  satisfy  their  strong 
desires  for  a  teacher.  In  1866  Mr.  Murray  visited  the  group 
for  a  second  time,  and  at  both  Nukulaelae  and  Funafuti 
remarkable  progress  had  been  made.  A  teacher  named 
Peni  and  his  wife  had  been  landed  on  Vaitupu  late  in  1865. 
Nukufetau  was  also  visited,  and  then  for  the  first  time 
Niutao  and  Nanomea.  On  the  way  back  Nui  was  also 
visited,  then  rejoicing  in  the  possession  of  a  teacher  named 
Kirisome  and  his  wife. 

From  that  date  the  superintendence  of  the  work  in  the 
Ellice  group  has  been  a  regular  part  of  the  Samoan  Mission. 
A  visit  has  been  made  by  an  experienced  missionary,  if 
possible  at  least  once  a  year  ;  native  teachers  have  been 
stationed  wherever  they  could  be  useful  ;  and  Christian 
literature  has  been  provided  for  the  natives,  the  vast 
majority  of  whom  have  learned  to  read.  The  population 
has  always  been  small.  Even  had  the  islands  not  been 
ravaged  by  the  slave-stealers,  the  total  of  both  Ellice  and 
Gilbert  groups  would  still  have  been  insignificant.  But  the 
wonderful  manner  in  which  Christianity  found  a  lodgement 
upon  them,  the  simplicity  and  teachableness  of  the  people, 
the  beauty  of  the  islets,  their  freedom  from  many  of  the  con- 
taminating influences  of  the  larger  centres  of  population, 
have  all  combined  to  make  this  a  field  dear  to  those  whose 
labours  therein  have  not  been  in  vain,  and  also  to  those  by 
whose  faith,  prayer,  and  liberality  the  success  has  been 
rendered  possible. 

VI.  The  Gilbert  Islands.  In  1870  the  Gilbert  Islands 
were  added  to  the  Samoan  Mission.  This  group  lies  between 
parallels  4°  north  and  2°  36'  south  latitude,  and  172°  to  178° 
east  longitude,  and  consists  of  seventeen  islets,  nine  north 
and  seven  south  of  the  equator.  Work  was  begun  in  some 
of  the  northern  islets  as  early  as  1857  by  American  mission- 
aries for  the  Sandwich  Islands.  But  on  Oct.  15,  1870, 
Mr.  Whitmee,  in  the  John  Williams,  sighted  the  island  of 


430        EXTEXSION  IN  IVESTERN  POLYNESIA 

Arorae.  The  fear  caused  by  the  first  impression  that  the 
John  Williams  was  a  '  man-steaHng  ship '  changed  to 
confidence  when  they  found  it  was  a  missionary  ship.  They 
gladly  consented  to  receive  the  teacher  and  his  wife,  whom 
]\Ir.  Whitmee  had  brought  with  him.  In  succession  the 
islands  Tamana,  Onoatoa,  and  Peru,  were  visited,  making 
a  beginning  of  Christian  work  upon  each.  Mr.  Pratt  visited 
the  islands  two  years  later,  August  1872,  and  found  them 
making  steady  progress. 

Since  that  date  mission-work  has  been  steadily  continued, 
subject  of  course  to  those  fluctuations  inseparable  from  the 
conditions  under  which  it  has  to  be  conducted.  In  these 
out-stations  many  of  the  evangelists  trained  at  Malua 
give  the  best  of  all  testimony  to  the  value  of  that  institution 
by  the  faithful,  diligent,  and  successful  service  they  render 
in  both  the  Ellice  and  the  Gilbert  groups. 

[Authorities. — Letters  and  Official  Reports ;  Forty  }'ears  in  Polynesia, 
and  Western  Polynesia^  by  A.  W.  Murray;  The  Story  of  the  Lifn  Mission^  by 
S.  A.  Macfarlane.] 


B<2<- (Wi',  ,„,„,, """^i-".     „^   ,  >^«"'Jfiui-av/?l> 

T  (J  R  R   E'  A'-w-Av    T  R  A    I    T 


\hoa^'' 


•FuJe  Eairaztce 


GULF      OF      \   'v^^ 
CARPENTARIA  \    Ca  p'e 

}   T  o   r  k     j    Si*' 
Apfij  insula 


f^  \    TfiiupleB. 


_\'  3  L  A.  iJ  D  1 


<t:  ^^'C  VfBCenat 


^^€^.^1!*^ 


Jc 


SOUTH  EAST 

NEW  GUINEA 


Scale  1;  5.600.000 


t^•• 


^^   .V 


O"" 


oi^e  Phitp  A  iionLondoBiUv-erj 


CHAPTER    XIII 

NEW    GUINEA 

New  Guinea,  if  Australia  be  considered  a  continent,  is 
the  largest  island  in  the  world,  and  is  about  1,400  miles 
in  length,  and  450  broad  at  its  widest  part.  It  nearly 
touches  the  equator  in  the  north,  and  in  the  extreme  east 
stretches  down  to  11°  south  latitude.  Even  in  1895 
little  more  than  the  coast-line  had  been  explored.  It 
possesses  magnificent  mountain  ranges,  much  fine  scenery, 
some  mighty  rivers,  and  much  land  that  even  under  native 
cultivation  is  very  fruitful.  The  climate  is  extremely  trying 
to  Europeans,  and  the  inhabitants  prior  to  1870  were  among 
the  most  savage  and  degraded  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 
But  the  very  qualities  in  them  which  repelled  the  trader 
and  squatter  and  globe-trotter  only  rendered  them  more 
attractive  in  the  eyes  of  Polynesian  Christians  and 
European  missionaries.  The  harder  the  field  the  more 
needful  to  win  it  for  the  Saviour. 

Although  it  was  1871  before  active  steps  were  taken  to 
found  a  mission  in  New  Guinea,  the  project  had  long  been 
before  the  mind  of  the  Directors  at  home,  and  on  the 
hearts  of  many  of  the  missionaries  in  Western  Polynesia. 
Towards  the  close  of  1870  it  had  become  obvious  that 
French  Catholic  influence  in  New  Caledonia  and  the 
Loyalty  group  had  developed  into  a  formidable  hindrance 
to  all  Protestant  mission  work.  French  intolerance  had, 
moreover,  insisted  upon  the  removal  of  the  Rev.  Samuel 
Macfarlane  from  Lifu.     The  Directors  therefore  instructed 


432 


NEJV    GUINEA 


him  to  be  in  readiness  to  go  on  a  visit  of  inspection  to 
New  Guinea  whenever  a  promising  opportunity  presented 
itself.  He,  entering  heartily  into  the  new  enterprise,  began 
at  once  to  collect  information  about  that  wild  land  of  which 
rumour  told  such  awesome  tales,  while  so  little  about  it  was 
accurately  known.  The  native  pastors  and  the  students  in 
the  Lifu  Training  Institution  were  consulted,  and  all  offered 
themselves  for  this  new  and  dangerous  work.  Four  pastors 
and  four  students  were  finally  selected,  and  a  vessel 
chartered.  On  December  2,  1870,  the  John  Williams 
reached  Lifu,  having  on  board  the  veteran  Samoan  mis- 
sionary, the  Rev.  A.  W.  Murray.  He  had  come,  partly  for 
his  health,  and  partly  to  superintend,  in  succession  to 
Mr.  Macfarlane,  the  work  on  Lifu.  As  Mr.  Murray  pos- 
sessed an  almost  unique  experience  in  the  work  of  stationing 
native  teachers  among  savage  islanders,  Mr.  Macfarlane 
naturally  enlisted  his  most  valuable  aid  in  the  new  enter- 
prise. Mr.  Murray  was  more  than  willing  to  further  such 
an  undertaking.  The  original  plan  was  modified.  Mr. 
Macfarlane  had  intended  to  take  only  two  native  teachers 
and  station  them  on  Darnley  Island  whilst  he  returned  to 
Lifu.  Finally  the  Surprise,  a  vessel  of  about  ninety  tons 
burden,  was  chartered  ;  Mr.  Thorngren,  who  had  resided 
for  some  time  on  Darnley  Island,  was  also  engaged  to  ac- 
company Messrs.  Murray  and  Macfarlane  and  aid  them 
with  his  knowledge  of  the  Torres  Straits  natives,  and 
eight  teachers,  four  from  Mare  and  four  from  Lifu,  were 
selected  as  pioneers.  Their  names  were :  from  Lifu, 
Gucheng,  Tepeso,  Elia,  and  Mataika;  from  Mare,  Kere- 
siano,  Waunaea,  Simone,  and  Josaia.  As  to  these  men  will 
ever  belong  the  honour  of  being  the  first  Christian  native 
teachers  to  land  in  New  Guinea,  the  following  facts  about 
them  from  the  pen  of  Mr.  Macfarlane  will  at  once  interest 
the  reader,  and  also  illustrate  the  splendid  qualities  of 
these  Polynesian  native  teachers  : — 

'  Gucheng  was  the  son  of  a  warrior  who  took  a  leading 
part  in  an  insurrection  against  the  king  of  the  western 
half  of  Lifu,  which  led  to  a  change  of  dynasty.     Gucheng 


FIRST  CHRISTIAN  NATIVE   TEACHERS        433 

came  to  live  with  us  as  servant-boy  when  we  landed  on 
Lifu  in  1H59.  Besides  regularly  attending  the  day  school, 
he  naturally  received  a  good  deal  of  private  instruction  in 
useful  arts  as  well  as  Bible  lessons.  He  was  one  of  the 
first  students  in  the  seminary  for  the  training  of  native 
pastors  and  pioneer  evangelists,  and  one  of  the  best 
educated  natives  on  the  island.  He  became  the  pastor  of 
the  pretty  coral  church  at  the  model  native  village  I  planned 
and  got  built  at  Hnacaum,  where  he  was  much  beloved  and 
did  splendid  work.  His  wife  was  one  of  the  best  girls  in 
Mrs.  Macfarlane's  school,  and  they  were  the  first  couple 
that  I  selected  as  pioneer  teachers  for  New  Guinea. 

'  He  was  located  with  Mataika  at  Darnley  Island.  Here 
he  laboured  successfully  for  several  years  before  his  wife 
died  from  the  effects  of  the  malarial  fever  of  the  country. 
He  was  my  first  lieutenant,  accompanying  me  in  forming 
most  of  the  new  stations,  and  in  the  pioneer  voyages  along 
the  unsurveyed  coast  and  up  the  newly  discovered  rivers, 
during  the  first  years  of  the  mission,  both  in  its  eastern 
and  western  branches. 

'After  starting  the  mission  in  China  Straits  and  Milne 
Bay,  we  commenced  a  mission  on  the  banks  of  the  great 
Y\y  River,  and  Gucheng,  at  my  request,  took  charge  of  the 
first  station  for  a  time.  The  first  station  formed  on  the 
mainland  of  New  Guinea,  which  was  at  the  mouth  of  the 
Katau  River,  having  proved  exceedingly  difficult  and 
dangerous  from  the  sickly  character  of  the  climate,  and 
the  wild,  treacherous,  warlike  nature  of  the  people,  and 
some  of  the  teachers  having  died,  and  others  left  the 
place,  Gucheng  bravely  undertook  to  give  the  place  a  fair 
trial ;  he  was  obliged,  however,  to  give  it  up,  and  we  left  it, 
with  some  others,  to  be  taken  up  later  by  New  Guinea 
native  teachers.  Gucheng,  after  his  recovery,  returned  to 
the  Fly  River,  where  he  died  from  the  deadly  fever  after 
many  years'  faithful  service. 

'  Tepeso  was  the  son  of  an  old  medicine-man  at  Lifu,  and 
succeeded  his  father  in  the  craft  soon  after  the  Gospel  was 
introduced  to  Lifu.     He  became  a  convert,  and  was  one 
U  F  f 


^34  ^^^    GUINEA 

of  the  first  students  in  the  Lifu  Seminary.  He  was  pastor 
of  a  large  church  when  the  French  arrived  and  took 
possession  of  the  Loyalty  Islands,  and  suffered  a  good 
deal  of  persecution  at  their  hands  on  account  of  his  zeal 
and  the  misrepresentations  of  the  Roman  Catholic  priests. 
Strange  to  say,  he  was  one  of  the  first  to  succumb  to  the 
fever  of  the  country  ;  his  wife  and  child  did  not  survive  him 
many  days. 

'Elia,  like  Gucheng,  was  first  our  servant-boy,  then 
entered  the  seminary,  was  a  diligent  student,  generally 
head  of  the  class.  He  also  married  a  girl  from  my  wife's 
school,  and  had  the  honour  of  being  one  of  the  eight 
pioneers  who  laboured  longest  in  New  Guinea,  and  one 
of  the  three  who  returned  to  his  own  country  after  his 
work  was  done.  The  scene  of  his  labours  was  chiefly  at 
Saibai,  where  he  attempted,  and  succeeded  fairly  well  in, 
translating  the  Gospel  of  Mark  into  the  language  of  the 
people  ;  also  a  small  hymn  book  and  school  book.  When 
he  left  Saibai,  it  was  one  of  the  most  prosperous  mission 
stations  in  the  whole  of  the  New  Guinea  Mission.  His  wife 
died  from  the  fever  of  the  country. 

*  Mataika  was  the  son  of  one  of  a  party  of  Tongans,  who 
were  blown  away  from  their  island  home  and  drifted  to 
Lifu  just  before  the  Gospel  was  introduced,  where  they 
were  received  kindly  by  the  old  King  Bula,  and  settled 
there  as  his  subjects.  They  are  much  lighter  in  colour 
than  the  Lifuans.  Mataika  was  a  good  all-round  man, 
could  build  a  good  canoe  and  manage  it  well  in  rough 
weather.  An  energetic  man,  with  great  force  of  character, 
and  full  of  enthusiasm  for  the  spread  of  the  Gospel.  He 
was  permitted  to  labour  in  the  mission  for  many  years, 
and  rendered  good  service.  He  was  one  of  three  who 
returned  to  his  native  land,  his  wife  having  died  in  the 
mission. 

'  Keresiano  was,  like  Tepeso,  a  man  of  middle  age.  He 
had  been  a  pioneer  evangelist  in  New  Caledonia,  whence 
he  was  driven  by  the  French.  He  then  became  the  pastor 
of  a  church  at  Uvea,  and  suffered  considerable  persecution 


FIRST  CHRISTIAN  NATIVE   TEACHERS        435 

from  the  Roman  Catholic  priests  and  French  authorities. 
Afterwards  he  settled  at  Mare  in  charge  of  a  native 
church,  whence  he  was  selected  as  one  of  the  New  Guinea 
pioneers.  He  was  a  faithful,  energetic,  judicious  and  godly 
man,  who  died  from  fever  during  those  first  few  dark  years 
at  the  commencement  of  the  mission. 

'  Waunaea  was  the  son  of  a  Mare  warrior.  He  was  a 
cautious,  quiet,  devout,  and  conscientious  man^  thoroughly 
consecrated,  most  reliable,  and  of  great  moral  weight 
amongst  his  brethren.  He  and  Keresiano  were  the  two 
who,  when  their  lives  were  in  great  peril,  and  it  was 
proposed  to  escape  by  boat,  said,  '  No,  the  missionary 
has  placed  us  here,  and  here  we  will  stay  till  he  takes 
us  away.  If  we  die  we  die,  if  we  live  we  are  in  the  hands 
of  God  ;  our  duty  is  to  remain  here.'  Waunaea  gave  many 
years  of  faithful  service.  He  was  placed  on  Yule  Island  as 
the  pioneer  teacher  there,  but  had  to  remove  after  a 
short  residence  owing  to  the  murder  of  Dr.  James  and 
Mr.  Thorngren  by  the  natives.  He  died  from  fever  near 
the  Baxter  River. 

'  Simone  was  one  of  the  first  to  die  from  the  deadly  fever 
of  the  country.     He  was  a  native  of  Mare. 

*  Josaia  was  to  Mr.  Jones,  of  Mare,  what  Gucheng  was  to 
me  at  Lifu.  He  was  one  of  the  best  trained  of  the  native 
teachers  ;  could  speak  and  write  several  languages,  English 
amongst  them  ;  could  build  a  house  and  make  the  furniture, 
or  build  a  boat  and  manage  it  well  in  rough  weather.  He 
could  shoe  a  horse  and  ride  it.  His  plantation  was  a  model. 
He  was  also  an  expert  fisherman.  In  addition  to  all  this 
he  was  an  exceptionally  good  schoolmaster,  and  an  excellent 
preacher.  Josaia  was  with  me  in  starting  the  mission 
stations  both  in  the  eastern  and  western  branches  of  the 
mission  ;  then  he  settled  down  at  Murray  Island,  and  was 
of  great  service  in  helping  to  establish  and  carry  on  the 
Papuan  Institute.  He  and  his  wife  both  lived  to  return 
to  their  native  country.' 

On  May  31,  1871,  the  Surprise  sailed  from  Lifu.  '  It  would 
be  diflficult,'  writes  Mr.  Macfarlanc, '  to  describe  our  feelings  as 

F  f  2 


436  A'^^    GUINEA 

we  sailed  towards  that  great  land  of  cannibals,  a  land  which, 
viewed  from  a  scientific,  political,  commercial,  or  religious 
point  of  view,  possesses  an  interest  peculiarly  its  own.  Whilst 
empires  have  risen,  flourished,  and  decayed  ;  whilst  Chris- 
tianity, science,  and  philosophy  have  been  transforming 
nations,  and  travellers  have  been  crossing  polar  seas  and 
African  deserts,  and  astonishing  the  world  by  their  dis- 
coveries, New  Guinea  has  remained  the  same :  sitting  in 
the  blue,  warm,  Southern  Ocean,  kissing  the  equator  at 
the  north  and  shaking  hands  with  Australia  in  the  south, 
bearing  on  her  bosom  magnificent  forests  and  luxuriant 
tropical  vegetation,  yet  lifting  her  snow-capped  head  into 
the  clear,  cold  atmosphere  17,000  feet  above  the  level  of 
the  sea — steaming  hot  at  the  base,  where  the  natives  may 
be  seen  in  the  cocoa-nut  groves  mending  their  bows  and 
poisoning  their  arrows,  making  their  bamboo  knives  and 
spears,  and  revelling  in  war  and  cannibalism  as  they  have 
been  doing  for  ages,  but  freezing  cold  at  the  summit,  where 
the  foot  of  man  has  never  disturbed  the  eternal  snows. 
It  was  this  terra  incognita  that  we  were  approaching, 
with  its  primeval  forests  and  mineral  wealth  and  savage 
inhabitants^.' 

On  June  29  Mount  Owen  Stanley  was  sighted,  and  the 
coast  of  New  Guinea  was  made  near  Hood  Point.  But 
even  when  the  land  sought  for  was  thus  in  sight  the  initial 
difficulties  to  be  overcome  were  very  great.  It  was  an 
unknown  and  dangerous  coast,  and  the  captain  would  not 
take  his  vessel  near  the  mainland,  and  so  the  coast  region 
had  to  be  explored  in  a  small  boat.  The  climate,  as  sur- 
mised by  those  who  viewed  the  new  land  through  eyes 
able  to  interpret  the  signs  before  them,  was  to  prove 
a  deadly  foe.  The  dialects  spoken  by  the  natives  differed 
so  seriously  that  practically  a  new  language  was  found  every 
fifty  miles.  The  absence  of  chiefs  wielding  power  like 
those  in  Polynesia  made  it  far  less  easy  to  secure  proper 
protection  for  the  native  teachers. 

*  Among  the  Cannibals,  pp.  14,  15. 


SETTLEMENT  ON  DARNLEY  ISLAND  437 

Darnley  Island  was  chosen  as  the  site  of  the  first  at- 
tempt, in  the  hope  that  it  might  become  the  lona  of  New- 
Guinea.  The  Surprise  arrived  there  on  July  i,  1871,  and 
intercourse  with  the  people  began  through  a  native  who 
was  induced  to  come  on  board,  and  sent  away  with  presents. 
On  July  3  the  people  showed  willingness  to  receive  a  native 
teacher,  and  thus  the  first  stone  in  the  foundation  of  the 
New  Guinea  Mission  was  laid.  It  was  at  Darnley  Island, 
and  on  this  occasion,  that  the  famous  incident,  which  so 
well  illustrates  the  zeal  and  courage  of  the  best  native 
teachers,  occurred.  Some  men  from  Murray  Island,  not 
liking  the  restraint  which  the  establishment  there  of 
a  mission  would  place  upon  their  actions,  tried  to  con- 
vince the  teachers  that  it  was  a  hopeless  task.  '  There  are 
alligators  there,  and  snakes  and  centipedes.'  *  Hold,'  said 
Tepeso ;  '  are  there  men  there  ?'  '  Oh  yes,  there  are  men  : 
but  they  are  such  dreadful  savages  that  it  is  no  use 
your  thinking  of  living  among  them.'  '  That  will  do,' 
replied  Tepeso ;  '  wherever  there  are  men  missionaries  are 
bound  to  go.' 

Ultimately  two  teachers  were  left  on  Darnley  Island, 
Gucheng  and  Mataika.  The  latter  was  to  proceed  later 
on  to  Murray  Island.  Mr.  Macfarlane  records  a  touching 
incident  which  occurred  when  the  goods  of  the  teachers 
had  been  landed,  and  the  Surprise  was  about  to  proceed 
on  her  voyage  to  the  north.  Gucheng's  wife  had  for 
a  time  lost  courage,  and  was  weeping  bitterly  at  the 
thought  of  being  left  among  these  strange  and  savage 
islanders.  Just  as  Mr.  Macfarlane  unknown  to  them  came 
up,  he  heard  Gucheng  say,  *  We  must  remember  for  what 
we  have  come  here.  Not  to  get  pearl  shell,  or  trepang, 
or  any  earthly  riches,  but  to  tell  these  people  about  the 
true  God  and  the  loving  Saviour  Jesus  Christ.  We  must 
think  of  what  He  suffered  for  us.  If  they  kill  us,  or  steal 
our  goods,  whatever  we  have  to  suffer,  it  will  be  very  little 
compared  with  what  He  suffered  for  us.'  Mr.  Macfarlane 
adds, '  As  we  pulled  off  to  the  ship,  and  beheld  the  weeping 
little   group    on    the   beach,   surrounded    by    naked   noisy 


438  NEW   GUINEA 

savages,  one  could   not  help  feeling  how  little  the  world 
knows  of  its  truest  heroes  ^' 

After  leaving  Darnley  Island  the  captain  of  the  Surprise 
would  not  go  nearer  the  main  coast  than  Warrior  Island. 
Consequently  the  teachers  could  be  landed  at  the  stations 
chosen  on  New  Guinea  itself  only  in  a  small  boat.  Dauan 
Island  was  first  visited.  It  is  only  four  or  five  miles  from 
the  mainland,  and  is  separated  from  the  large  island  of 
Saibai  by  a  strait  three  miles  wide. 

•  The  first  night  we  spent  on  shore  was  a  memorable  one. 
After  all  was  landed,  and  our  teachers  were  preparing  the 
supper,  Mr.  Murray  and  I  walked  along  the  beach,  and  sat 
down  by  a  creek,  with  the  great  land  of  New  Guinea  before 
us.  The  sun  had  set,  and  the  dark  outline  of  the  land 
stretched  away  on  either  side.  We  were  alone,  for  all  the 
natives  were  busy  with  their  evening  meal.  We  sang  a  few 
oi  the  good  old  missionary  hymns,  and  prayed  together, 
and  talked  of  the  great  work  we  were  beginning,  with  its 
probable  consequences,  both  of  a  depressing  and  encourag- 
ing nature  ;  but  we  little  thought  that  we  should  live  to 
see  and  hear  of  so  many  martyrs  of  the  New  Guinea 
Mission,  most  of  them  none  the  less  martyrs  because  they 
have  been  struck  down  by  the  deadly  fever  of  the  climate, 
whilst  others  have  fallen  by  the  clubs,  spears,  and  poison 
of  the  natives  2.' 

Two  teachers  were  left  at  Dauan,  and  then  Katau  on  the 
mainland  was  visited;  but  it  did  not  seem  prudent  on 
closer  inspection  to  land  the  two  teachers  there.  They 
were,  however,  introduced  to  the  natives,  who  promised  to 
receive  and  care  for  them  ;  meanwhile  they  were  stationed 
with  the  others  at  Dauan  to  study  the  language.  A  boat  and 
supplies  were  left  with  the  teachers,  and  then  Mr.  Macfarlane 
returned  to  Warrior  Island.  It  took  two  days  hard  beating 
up  against  the  strong  trade  wind  for  the  little  open  boat  to 
reach  its  point. 

Half  the  plan  had  been  thus  completed,  and  Mr.  Macfarlane 
was   proceeding  in  the  Surprise  to  station  the  other  two 

^  Among  (he  Cannibals,  p.  37.  »  Ibid.  p.  39. 


TROUBLES  AT  DAUAN  439 

teachers  on  the  Fly  River,  when  the  news  reached  him 
that  two  of  the  teachers  and  their  wives  had  fled  from 
Dauan,  and  that  it  was  feared  the  other  two  had  been 
murdered.  Hastening  to  Dauan  once  again  in  the  open 
boat,  this  was  what  Mr.  Macfarlane  found.  Two  days  after 
the  teachers  had  landed  a  trading  vessel  called  at  Dauan. 
The  captain  sent  his  crew  of  South  Sea  Islanders  ashore 
armed,  and  robbed  the  plantations  of  the  natives.  They 
were  powerless  to  prevent  this,  but  considering  the  teachers, 
inasmuch  as  they  were  South  Sea  Islanders,  members  of 
the  tribe  who  had  robbed  them,  the  natives  urged  their 
chief  to  murder  them  all  in  revenge.  Only  the  word  of 
this  savage  stood  between  the  teachers  and  death ;  but  he 
remained  firm.  In  the  morning  two  of  the  four  teachers 
fled  in  their  boat ;  but  the  other  two  remained  steadfast 
at  their  post.  The  boat  was  restored  to  the  teachers  at 
Dauan,  and  two  other  teachers  were  stationed  at  Warrior 
Island.  It  was  thought  that  their  presence  would  tend  to 
restrain  acts  of  violence  by  South  Sea  Islanders  in  the 
employ  of  the  pearl  fishers,  and  this  proved  to  be  the  case. 

After  visiting  Cape  York,  and  revisiting  Darnley  Island, 
where  all  was  found  to  be  going  well,  the  Surprise  sailed 
across  the  Gulf  of  Papua  to  the  mainland  of  New  Guinea, 
making  that  coast  off  Yule  Island.  Redscar  Bay  was 
visited  next,  the  captain  being  eager  to  find  traces  of  gold. 
Natives  were  induced  to  come  on  board,  and  then  the  dis- 
covery was  made  that  both  in  appearance  and  language 
the  inhabitants  of  Eastern  New  Guinea  resembled  the 
Polynesians  much  more  closely  than  did  the  Papuan  tribes 
of  the  Gulf.  This  led  Mr.  Murray  and  Mr.  Macfarlane  to 
recommend  the  Directors  to  appoint  a  couple  of  mission- 
aries from  Eastern  Polynesia,  with  a  staff  of  native  teachers, 
to  begin  the  evangelization  of  Eastern  New  Guinea. 

'  It  is  a  somewhat  remarkable  fact  that  the  London  Mis- 
sionary Society  wa^  the  only  society  in  a  position  to  supply 
missionaries  and  native  evangelists  from  both  Eastern  and 
Western  Polynesia,  to  meet  the  peculiar  wants  of  a  mission 
in  New  Guinea.     Our  society  had  just  the  kind  of  agency 


440  NEW    GUINEA 

needed  for  the  evangelization  of  the  two  races  in  that 
portion  of  New  Guinea  which  we  intended  to  make  the 
field  of  our  mission,  and  which  has  now  become  a  colony  of 
Great  Britain.  Here  was  a  fine  field  for  mission  work  for 
the  native  churches  of  Polynesia:  the  Loyalty  Islands 
Mission  taking  the  dark  race  ;  and  the  Tahitian  Mission, 
the  Hervey  Islands  Mission,  the  Niue  Mission,  and  the 
Samoan  Mission,  the  lighter  coloured  tribes  on  the  penin- 
sula. If  nothing  more  had  been  done  in  the  South  Seas 
than  prepare  a  native  agency  for  this  great  work,  it  would 
be  a  grand  result  ^' 

The  return  voyage  to  Lifu  was  stormy  and  lengthy,  but 
the  Surprise  reached  her  destination  safely  on  November  2, 
1871.  Thus  ended  the  preliminary  work  in  the  latest  and 
highly  important  extension  of  work  undertaken  by  the 
London  Missionary  Society  in  the  nineteenth  century.  For 
persistence  on  the  part  of  the  Directors  in  the  face  of  great 
discouragement,  for  lavish  expenditure  of  resources,  for  the 
skill,  devotion,  enterprise,  and  heroism  of  the  noble  band  of 
missionaries  who  have  extended  the  work,  and  for  the 
enthusiasm,  endurance,  and  faithfulness  unto  death,  far 
beyond  all  praise,  on  the  part  of  the  magnificent  band  of 
native  teachers  engaged  in  its  service,  the  New  Guinea 
Mission  has  been  equalled  by  few  of  the  great  evangelistic 
enterprises  of  the  century. 

Mr.  Macfarlane  returned  almost  at  once  to  England,  and 
in  March,  1872,  Mr.  Murray,  who  had  in  the  meantime 
settled  down  to  mission  work  on  the  island  of  Mare, 
received  a  letter  from  the  Directors  instructing  him  to  take 
charge  of  the  New  Guinea  Mission.  This  necessitated  his 
removal  to  Cape  York.  The  John  Williams  was  ordered 
there,  and  on  September  14,  1872,  Mr.  Murray  sailed  in 
her  from  Lifu.  A  second  band  of  native  teachers  went 
with  him  :  four  from  Mar^,  three  from  Lifu,  and  one  from 
Uvea.  There  were  also  six  teachers  frorfi  the  Hervey  group, 
and  these  had  come  in  charge  of  the  Rev.  W.  Wyatt  Gill, 
then  of  Mangaia.     Of  this  first   group  of  Hervey  Island 

*  Among  the  Cannihah,  p.  59. 


VOLUNTEERS  FROM  RAROTONGA  441 

teachers,    and    the    incidents    attending    their    departure, 
Mr.  Chalmers  has  given  one  of  his  graphic  sketches  : — 

'  My  dear  old  friend  and  fellow  worker,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Gill, 
had  arranged  to  go  home  on  his  first  furlough  in  1872.  and 
we  decided  in  committee  to  ask  him  to  take  a  number  of 
teachers  in  charge,  and  with  Mr.  Murray  place  them  on 
the  mainland  of  New  Guinea.  Preparations  were  at  once 
begun  to  get  our  first  contingent  away.  At  one  early 
morning  meeting  the  chapel  was  crowded,  and  I  proposed 
that  we  should  pray  that  God  would  help  us  to  select  the 
best  men  for  the  very  important  undertaking.  At  that 
meeting  several  old  men  stood  up  and  said,  "  Take  us  all  : 
if  we  cannot  learn  the  language  to  speak  for  Jesus,  we  can 
live  for  Him,  and  help  the  younger  men  in  station  work." 
The  enthusiasm  was  intense.  Five  men  and  their  wives 
were  selected,  and  from  all  the  islands  we  had  numerous 
offers  of  service.  The  time  was  drawing  near  when  they 
must  leave.  Who  that  witnessed  that  "  setting  apart " 
Sunday  at  Avarua,  Rarotonga,  will  ever  forget  it?  Old 
men  and  women,  young  men  and  women,  wept  with  real 
joy.  That  sobbed  "Amen"  of  the  setting-apart  prayer  of 
the  whole  assembly  I  hear  now.  Five  men  and  their  wives 
leaving  home  and  friends  and  all  that  was  dear  to  them  for 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ !  I  think  of  it  now  with 
wonder  and  praise.  The  churches  and  congregations  were 
everywhere  thrilled. 

'  The  John  Williams  arrived  and  remained  a  few  days. 
Then  the  parting  came,  a  never- to -be  forgotten  day. 
Twenty-two  years  have  gone  since  then,  but  the  memory 
is  still  fresh.  One  of  the  five,  Ruatoka,  was  sent  with  fear 
and  trembling,  being  apparently  in  bad  health  and  very 
weak,  and  I  was  strongly  urged  not  to  send  him.  He 
much  wished  to  go,  and  thinking  he  could  bear  it,  I  agreed; 
and  to-day  he  is  the  only  one  left — all  the  others  are  dead 
and  buried.  The  names  were : — Ruatoka  and  wife,  from 
Mangaia ;  Rau  and  wife,  from  Aitutaki ;  Heneri  and  wife, 
from  Manihiki ;  Adamu  and  wife,  from  Manihiki ;  Anederea 
and  wife,  from  Rarotonga.     They  called  at  Aitutaki.  and 


442  NEW    GUINEA 

there  the  interest  was  as  intense  as  on  Rarotonga  and 
Mangaia.  At  Samoa  they  were  joined  by  Piri  and  his 
wife,  who  were  there  in  charge  of  a  Rarotonga  colony,  so 
that  they  were  now  six  ^' 

Xo  reader  of  Mr.  Chalmers'  thrilling  books  needs  to  be 
reminded  of  Ruatoka's  wonderful  career.  No  higher  praise 
can  be  afforded  him  than  that  he  is  probably  the  noblest 
of  the  long  succession  of  Eastern  Polynesian  teachers  who 
have  done  such  grand  service  for  New  Guinea.  In  1899 
he  was  still  alive  and  well  and  active  as  ever. 

Cape  York  was  reached  on  October  11.  After  a  pro- 
specting trip  by  Messrs.  Murray  and  Gill  in  Torres  Straits 
in  a  small  steamer  called  the  Wainui,  they  landed  at  Dauan 
on  November  i, there  to  await  the  teachers  who  were  being 
conveyed  by  Mr.  Thorngren  in  a  little  vessel  named  the 
Viking.  This  reached  Dauan  on  November  6,  and  the 
next  morning  four  teachers,  Josaia  and  Elia,  two  of  the 
1871  party,  with  Saneish  and  Pethin,  two  of  the  second 
party,  were  conveyed  to  Katau,  which  was  reached  the 
same  evening.  Josaia  and  Saneish  were  stationed  at  Katau; 
and  Elia  and  Pethin  on  New  Guinea  itself,  at  Torotoram, 
or  as  it  is  now  called  Tureture,  a  few  miles  distant. 
November  7,  1872,  thus  becomes  an  ever-memorable  day 
in  the  history  of  New  Guinea,  as  the  date  upon  which 
Christian  teachers  were  first  stationed  upon  the  mainland 
of  the  vast  island.  On  November  9  Uaunaea  and  Gutacene 
were  sent  to  Moa  (Banks  Island),  but  afterwards  moved  to 
Mabuiag  (Jervis  Island).  Murray  and  Gill  had  chartered 
a  small  vessel  called  the  Loelia,  and  in  her  they  sailed  on 
November  1 1  to  station  the  remaining  teachers.  They 
touched  first  at  Ugar  (Stephens  Island),  but  there  they 
met  with  what  Mr.  Murray  tells  us  was  '  the  first  and  only 
refusal '  he  ever  had  either  in  Torres  Straits  or  on  the 
mainland.  Darnley  Island  was  next  visited,  and  of  the 
work  there  Mr.  Murray  wrote:  '  Gucheng  and  his  wife  had 
completely  won  the  affection  and  gained  the  confidence 
of  the  people.     It  would   be  too  much  to  say  that  they 

'  Pioneer  Life  and  Work  in  New  Guinea,  pp.  22,  23. 


MATAIKA  LANDS   ON  MURRAY  ISLAND       443 

esteemed  them  very  highly  in  love  for  their  work's  sake,  in 
the  highest  sense  ;  but  they  understood  and  appreciated 
the  temporal  advantages  which  they  derived  from  their 
presence.'  Thence  the  Loelia  sailed  to  the  Murray  Islands, 
three  in  number.  Mer,  the  largest  of  the  three,  has  become 
famous  in  New  Guinea  story.  In  1871  a  teacher,  Mataika 
by  name,  had  been  intended  for  it.  At  his  own  request  he 
had  been  left  for  a  time  with  Gucheng,  and  it  was  hoped 
that  in  a  few  months  a  trader  would  convey  him  to  Mer, 
but  this  was  not  realized. 

'  Mataika,  however,  was  equal  to  the  occasion.  He  was 
a  John  Williams  in  a  small  way.  There  was  wood  in  the 
bush,  and  he  had  tools,  and  health  and  strength,  and 
assistance  could  be  had.  Why  not  set  to  work  and 
construct  something  that  would  carry  him  to  Murray 
Islands  ?  So  he  thought ;  and  with  the  aid  of  his  brother 
teacher,  and  two  Lifu  men  who  were  on  the  island,  he 
built  a  canoe.  It  was  dug  out  of  a  single  tree,  but  it  was 
raised  a  little  at  the  sides,  that  it  might  not  so  readily  fill, 
should  the  sea  be  rough  ;  and  in  this  poor  craft  Mataika 
started  for  Murray  Islands,  which  lie  dead  to  windward,  and 
are  thirty  miles  distant  from  Darnley.  He  had  a  crew  of 
five,  including  himself,  viz.  two  Lifu  men,  and  two  natives 
of  the  islands  to  which  he  was  bound.  His  object  was 
to  ascertain  the  disposition  of  the  people — whether  they 
would  allow  him  to  live  among  them  as  a  teacher  of  a  new 
religion.  The  voyage  occupied  one  night  and  two  days, 
and  ended  in  the  party  reaching  their  destination  in  safety, 
and  being  well  received.  A  boat  was  engaged  belonging 
to  a  coloured  man  residing  on  the  islands,  in  which  Mataika 
returned  to  Darnley  Island,  and  in  which  he  and  his  wife 
and  property  were  conveyed  to  Murray  Islands,  and  so 
commenced  the  mission  \' 

From  Murray  Island  the  Loelia  sailed  on  November  19 
across   the   Gulf  to    Redscar   Bay,   and    Manumanu  -   was 

^  Forty  Years'  Mission  Work  in  Polynesia,  pp.  470,  471. 
'  For  a  full  and  very  interesting  account  of  the  natives  as  they  appeared 
at  this  time,  see  Life  in  the  Southern  Isles,  by  Wyatt  Gill,  pp.  247-263. 


^y^  NEW    GUINEA 

finally  chosen  as  the  site  of  the  mission.  This  incident, 
even  more  important  than  that  of  November  7,  is  thus 
described  by  Mr.  Murray  :— 

*  We  had  seen  nothing  at  all  equal  to  Manumanu  before 
on  any  part  of  the  mainland  or  the  islands.     It  stands  on 
the  banks  of  a  large  river  \  and  has  a  large  population  for 
a  heathen  village.     We  counted  ninety  houses,  many  of 
which   had    two   stories.     The  houses  are  placed  in  two 
straight    rows,  with    a   broad    street   between.     They   are 
similar  in  construction  to  the  houses  at  Katau,  but  none 
that  we  saw  are  nearly  so  long  as  these.     There  was  no 
mistaking  the  origin  of  the  people.     They  are  as  evidently 
of  the  Malay  type  as  their  dark   neighbours   are   of  the 
Papuan.      They   gave   us   a  very  friendly   reception,   and 
reposed  in  us  perfect  confidence,  and  we  saw  no  reason  to 
distrust  them.      They  signified   their  willingness  that  the 
teachers  should   remain  amongst  them  ;    so,  after  looking 
round  the  place,  we  returned  to  the  ship,  and  during  the 
evening  of  that  day,  and  on  the  following  day,  which  was 
the  Sabbath,  we  had  very  anxious  consultations  as  to  w^hat 
plan  we  had  best  adopt  with  reference  to  the  location  of 
the  teachers.     We  came  to  the  conclusion  that  the  best 
thing  we  could  do  under  the  circumstances  was  to  leave 
the  teachers  together  at  Manumanu,  to  remain  there  till 
I  might  be  able  to  return  to  them,  which  I  hoped  to  do 
in    a   few    months.      In   commencing   a   new    mission,   in 
a  strange  country,  there  must  always  of  course  be  some 
risk.      In   the  very  nature   of   the    case   the  thing   is    an 
experiment,  and  both  teachers  and  missionaries  must  be 
prepared  to  take  risk  ;  but  it  is  our  part  to  do  everything, 
of  which   the  circumstances  admit,  to   make  the  risk  as 
small  as  possible. 

'  We  left  the  teachers,  six  in  number,  Piri,  Rau,  Anederea, 
Ruatoka,  Adamu,  and  Heneri,  and  their  wives,  with  a  good 
supply  of  food  (so  it  was  considered  by  all  on  board  our 
vessel),  and  they  had  a  supply  of  medicines,  and  a  good 

'  '  To  this  river,  of  which  we  were  the  discoverers,  we  gave  the  name  of  the 
Manumanu  River.' 


TROUBLES   AT  REDSCAR  BAY  445 

boat,  and  a  little  trade.  Part  of  their  property  had  been 
left  at  Murray  Islands,  as  it  was  not  thought  advisable  to 
bring  a  large  quantity  of  property  among  a  heathen  people. 
And,  in  all  our  experience  throughout  the  South  Seas,  we 
have  found  that  natives  will  not  be  allowed  to  starve 
among  other  natives,  whereas  the  possession  of  a  large 
amount  of  property  might  expose  them  to  danger.  Still, 
with  all  the  precautions  we  could  take,  it  was  not  with- 
out anxiety  that  we  took  our  departure  from  Redscar 
Bay  ^/ 

On  November  27  the  Loelia  left  Redscar  Bay  for 
Bampton  Island,  200  miles  due  west,  and  there,  on 
December  i,  landed  two  teachers,  Clio  and  Mataio.  The 
natives  seemed  so  friendly  that  fears  were  entertained 
only  on  the  score  of  health,  the  site  to  veterans  like 
Murray  and  Gill  appearing  too  low  to  be  really  healthy. 
From  Bampton  Island  the  Loelia  returned  to  Cape 
York. 

Mr.  Murray  remained  at  Cape  York  to  superintend  the 
infant  mission.  He  had  relied  upon  being  able  to  charter 
a  small  vessel  whenever  he  required  one.  But  accidental 
circumstances  have  often  greatly  affected  missionary  work, 
and  so  it  was  then.  The  Queensland  Government,  in  order 
to  stop  the  abuses  connected  with  the  pearl  fishery,  had 
ordered  every  vessel  in  the  Straits  to  procure  a  licence  at 
Sydney  or  Brisbane.  The  result  of  this  order  was  that 
during  the  first  half  of  1873,  a  most  critical  time  for  the 
native  teachers,  Mr.  Murray  was  utterly  unable  to  secure 
any  vessel  whatever,  and  consequently  could  hold  no 
communication  with  the  native  teachers.  Bad  news 
reached  him  from  Redscar  Bay.  Adamu  had  cut  his 
foot  and  died  from  the  wound,  his  wife  having  died 
a  few  days  before  him.  The  wife  of  another  had  died, 
and  all  were  more  or  less  disabled  by  sickness.  Captain 
Moresby  in  the  Basilisk  was,  at  Mr.  Murray's  request, 
very  kind  and  helpful,  and  brought  two  teachers  with  their 
wives  back  to  Cape  York,  thus  saving  the  life  of  at  least 

*  Forty  Years'  Mission  H'ork  in  folynesia,  pp.  473-475. 


446  NEW    GUINEA 

one  of  them.  There  had  also  been  much  sickness  in  the 
western  mission.  Mr.  Murray's  anxieties  were  further 
increased  by  the  report  that  on  March  12  the  teachers  on 
Bampton  Island  and  their  wives  had  all  been  murdered. 
Different  versions  of  this  tragedy  were  current  at  the  time, 
and  the  teachers  do  not  seem  to  have  acted  altogether  as 
prudently  as  they  might.  Many  years  later  some  of  the 
natives  told  Mr.  Chalmers  that  the  teachers  had  all  died 
from  sickness.  It  is  more  probable,  however,  that  they 
were  murdered,  either  for  their  property,  which  against  the 
advice  of  Murray  and  Gill  they  had  taken  with  them,  or 
because  they  tried  too  energetically  to  restrain  the  evil 
habits  of  the  savages.  Mr.  Murray,  in  the  Viking,  a  vessel 
of  only  eight  tons,  managed  to  visit  all  the  western  stations, 
and  was  intending  to  risk  the  voyage  in  her  to  Redscar 
Bay.  His  health,  however,  prevented  this.  Meanwhile 
a  gentleman  named  Orkney,  in  the  old  Loelia,  which  had 
been  changed  into  a  yacht,  visited  Manumanu,  and 
alarmed  at  the  enfeebled  state  of  the  teachers,  brought 
them  all  back  to  Cape  York.  There  they  were  enabled 
to  recruit. 

Captain  Moresby  had,  in  1873,  discovered  the  fine 
harbour,  which  has  ever  since  after  him  been  called  Port 
Moresby.  Though  not  free  from  drawbacks,  it  was  yet 
undoubtedly  less  exposed  to  fever  and  ague  than  Manu- 
manu. Thither,  in  November,  1873,  Mr.  Murray  conveyed 
and  stationed  at  a  village  in  Port  Moresby,  called  Hanu- 
abada,  the  teachers  Ruatoka  and  Anederea  with  their 
wives,  and  Rau  and  Heneri,  whose  wives  had  died  at 
Manumanu.  Piri  and  his  wife,  left  behind  at  Cape  York, 
because  there  was  no  room  for  them  in  the  little  vessel, 
were  in  March,  1874,  stationed  at  Boera. 

During  1873  and  1874  the  Directors  and  Mr.  Macfarlane 
had  not  been  idle.  The  latter  had  aroused  in  the  mind  of 
Miss  Baxter,  a  wealthy  and  benevolent  lady  of  Dundee,  so 
deep  an  interest  in  New  Guinea  that  she  presented  to 
the  mission  a  steamer  of  ^6  tons  register,  named  after  her 
own  home,  the  EUcngowan.     The  Directors  decided  that 


MACFARLANE'S   VOYAGE  EAST  IN  1874       447 

four  missionaries  should  superintend  the  New  Guinea  work  : 
Mr.  Macfarlane  in  Torres  Straits,  and  the  Rev.  W.  G.  Lawes, 
of  Niue,  at  Port  Moresby.  Each  was  to  have  a  younger 
colleague.  Mr.  Macfarlane  reached  Cape  York  in  July. 
1874,  and  Mr.  Law^es  in  October.  In  August  the  Ellen- 
gowan  arrived,  and  was  refitted  for  the  mission  use  b\' 
Captain  Nares  of  the  Challenger,  which  vessel  happened 
then  to  be  calling  at  Cape  York.  The  John  Williams 
reached  Somerset  in  November,  and,  accompanied  by  the 
Ellengowan,  conveyed  Mr.  Lawes  and  his  family  to  Port 
Moresby,  anchoring  there  on  November  21.  In  the  course 
of  little  more  than  a  week,  by  the  combined  labour  of 
crews,  teachers,  and  natives,  the  frame  house  which  Mr. 
Lawes  had  brought  from  Sydney  was  put  up  and  rendered 
habitable,  and  the  mission  upon  the  mainland  of  New 
Guinea  fairly  started  upon  its  marvellous  career. 

Mr.  Macfarlane,  on  the  return  of  the  Ellengowan,  visited 
his  stations,  and  then,  in  search  of  suitable  positions  for 
teachers,  explored  for  ninety  miles  a  large  river  some 
twenty  miles  to  the  west  of  Dauan,  which  he  named  the 
Baxter  River.  This  region  did  not  commend  itself  to 
his  judgment  as  a  suitable  sphere  for  mission  work.  Later 
on  he  sailed  some  distance  up  the  great  Fly  River.  No 
high  land  having  been  discovered  on  the  banks  of  either 
the  Baxter  or  the  Fly,  and  Port  Moresby  proving,  like 
Manumanu,  very  unhealthy,  the  Ellengowan  ran  over  to 
Hanuabada,  and  picking  up  Mr.  Lawes,  visited  the  south- 
east coast  and  east  end  of  the  island.  The  result  of  this 
trip  was  the  establishment  of  mission-work  at  the  eastern 
end  of  New  Guinea.  Thus  in  the  course  of  three  years 
mission-work  had  been  begun  in  Torres  Straits,  at  Port 
Moresby,  and  at  the  eastern  extremity  of  New  Guinea. 

As  the  work  in  Torres  Straits  differed  in  important 
respects  from  that  carried  on  upon  the  mainland,  and  as  it 
was  based  upon  a  somewhat  different  conception  of  methods, 
it  may  be  well  to  complete  first  the  sketch  of  what  has  been 
attempted  there.  Darnley  Island  not  proving  suitable  as 
the  centre  of  the  Torres  Straits'  Mission,  Mr.  Macfarlane 


448  NEW   GUINEA 

selected  Murray  Island  in  1877,  as  the  permanent  centre 
of  work.  His  desire  was  to  found  on  Murray  Island  an 
institution,  like  those  at  Malua  and  Rarotonga,  whence,  after 
proper  training,  New  Guinea  native  teachers  might  go  forth 
to  evangelize  their  own  tribes.  Side  by  side  with  this  an 
industrial  school  was  to  teach  young  natives  some  of  the 
arts  of  civilization.  In  1877  Mr.  Macfarlane  visited  East 
Cape  on  a  mission  which  will  be  described  later  on. 
During  the  same  year  the  Murray  Islanders  renounced 
idolatry,  and  in  January,  1879,  the  Papuan  Gulf  Native 
College  was  inaugurated.  The  main  convictions  underlying 
Mr.  Macfarlane's  action  were,  first,  that  the  mainland  of 
New  Guinea  could  be  best  evangelized  from  the  islands 
in  the  Torres  Straits ;  and,  secondly,  that  native  teachers 
could  be  best  trained  for  their  work  by  removing  them 
when  young  quite  away  from  their  heathen  surroundings 
and  training  them  for  several  years  in  a  school  and  college 
entirely  under  Christian  influences.  For  both  these  ends 
Murray  Island  appeared  to  him  eminently  suited,  and  his 
ideal  was  to  make  it  a  strong  centre  from  which  the  light 
of  truth  might  be  carried  up  the  great  Fly  River  and  all 
along  the  Papuan  Gulf  coast  of  New  Guinea. 

The  other  view,  acted  upon  by  Mr.  Lawes  and  his 
colleagues,  was  that  mission-work  in  New  Guinea  could 
be  done  effectively  only  by  living  among  and  with  the 
people.  A  fixed  centre  was  needful,  but  it  should  be  on 
or  very  near  the  mainland.  Teachers  should  be  placed 
wherever  possible,  and  frequently  visited,  and  superin- 
tended by  the  missionary. 

Into  the  controversies  which  have  arisen  over  these 
differing  views  we  do  not  enter.  But  in  the  history  of  the 
New  Guinea  Mission  it  is  needful  to  note  that  the  results 
have  not  so  far  vindicated  the  Murray  Island  scheme. 
The  reasons  for  this  need  not  be  set  forth  at  length. 
Certainly  among  the  chief  were  the  rapid  changes  in  the 
personnel  of  the  mission.  In  the  middle  of  1879  Mr. 
Macfarlane  revisited  England,  not  returning  to  Murray 
Island  until  September,  1881,  and  in  1886  he  retired  from 


THE  MURRAY  ISLAND  MISSION  449 

the  mission  and  took  up  permanent  residence  in  England.  In 
July,  1 88c,  the  Rev.  Tait  Scott  was  appointed  to  the  mission, 
reaching  Thursday  Island  in  September  of  that  year,  but 
in  less  than  two  years  he  gave  up  the  work,  and  retired 
from  the  Society's  service.  The  Rev.  Harry  Scott  reached 
Murray  Island  in  December,  1883.  He  threw  himself  into 
the  work  of  the  Institution  with  energy  and  success,  and  in 
September,  1885,  welcomed  as  his  colleague  the  Rev.  E.  B. 
Savage.  In  1886  Harry  Scott's  health  failed,  and  he  had 
to  retire  from  the  field — a  serious  blow  to  the  work.  In 
August,  1887,  the  Rev.  A.  E.  Hunt  reached  Murray  Island 
as  colleague  to  Mr.  Savage.  Both  men  were  relatively 
untried  and  inexperienced.  Mr.  Savage  proved  unequal  to 
the  responsibility  placed  upon  him  ;  and,  at  the  request  of 
the  Directors,  Mr.  Hunt  took  up  work  at  Matautu,  Samoa. 
Thus  after  two  years'  further  trial  the  condition  of  affairs 
had  become  so  unsatisfactory  that  at  Port  Moresby  in 
September,  1889,  a  committee  meeting,  attended  by  every 
European  missionary  on  the  New  Guinea  staff,  decided 
upon  the  following  important  changes  : — Murray  Island, 
being  too  isolated  and  too  distant  from  the  mainland 
to  serve  as  a  good  base,  was  no  longer  to  be  a  chief, 
but  only  an  out-station.  A  suitable  spot  much  nearer 
the  mainland  was  to  be  chosen  and  worked  by  Mr.  Savage, 
under  the  superintendence  of  Mr.  Chalmers.  In  1891 
Mr.  Savage  retired  from  the  mission,  and  since  that 
date  what  work  has  been  done  in  the  Fly  River  region 
has  been  superintended  by  Mr.  Chalmers  from  Motumotu. 
The  mere  enumeration  of  these  rapid  changes,  due  to 
varying  causes,  accounts  for  the  relative  paucity  of  results 
in  Western  New  Guinea.  Whatever  may  be  urged  on 
theoretical  grounds,  the  fact  remains  that  in  the  Port 
Moresby  and  Eastern  Districts  much  good  work  has  been 
done,  while  in  Western  New  Guinea  hardly  more  than  two 
or  three  permanent  footholds  have  yet  been  obtained. 

We  now  resume  the  story  of  the  development  of  the 
mission  at  Port  Moresby.  In  the  latter  part  of  1874  the 
Rev.  W.  G.  Lawes  of  Savage   Island  became   permanent 

I.  G  g 


450  NEW    GUINEA 

missionary  at  this  most  important  station.  In  a  letter 
dated  December  30,  1874,  he  writes  :  'The  present  position 
and  prospects  of  our  mission  are  on  the  whole  hopeful 
and  encouraging.  But  you  must  take  a  very  large  dis- 
count off  Mr.  Murray's  report.  Things  appeared  very 
much  brighter  to  him  than  they  really  are.  No  casual 
visitor,  however  often  he  may  come,  can  get  the  same 
accurate  knowledge  which  a  resident  acquires.'  Mr.  Lawes 
points  out  that  the  natives  welcomed  missionaries  entirely 
because  they  hoped  to  get  plenty  of  tobacco,  tomahawks, 
shirts,  and  food.  '  Our  lives  are  as  safe  as  they  would  be 
among  any  heathen  savage  tribes.  A  very  little  makes 
them  angry,  and  then  they  run  for  bow  and  arrows  and  club. 
We  have  no  intention  of  leaving  unless  the  chiefs  who 
promised  us  their  protection  say,  Go.  Of  course  they  can 
have  only  a  dim  conception  of  the  object  of  our  mission, 
for  teachers  have  only  been  a  year  with  them,  and  no  one 
has  yet  shown  any  disposition  to  embrace  Christianity.' 

Mr.  Lawes'  description  of  Port  Moresby  will  answer  for 
almost  every  village  along  the  coast  of  South-eastern  New 
Guinea. 

'  Port  Moresby  consists  of  the  two  villages  of  Hanuabada 
and  Elevara.  Our  house  is  between  the  two,  stands  on 
high  ground  between  two  little  hills,  commands  a  fine 
view  of  the  harbour  in  front  and  a  pretty  valley  at  the 
back,  while  lofty  mountain  ranges  rise  behind  all.  The 
harbour  is  a  fine  one,  but  has  a  nasty  reef  just  at  the 
entrance.  The  villages  consist  of  about  forty  or  fifty  houses, 
each  built  close  together,  all  on  piles  or  rather  poles,  half 
way  up  which  the  sea  comes  at  high  tide.  Fear  of  an  evil 
spirit  called  Koitapu  causes  the  natives  to  build  their 
houses  in  the  sea,  and  the  same  cause  prevents  them  from 
going  out  of  their  houses  landward  after  dark.  The  houses 
are  clean  and  tidy.  Each  one  has  a  sort  of  verandah  in  front. 
on  which  men  and  boys  sit,  smoke,  talk,  and  sometimes  make 
nets.  Here  too  you  may  see  a  netted  bag  suspended 
swinging  in  the  air,  in  which  lies  a  young  New  Guinean  fast 
asleep.     Inside    the    houses    fine   long    fishing   nets   hang, 


PORT  MORESBY  IN  1S75  451 

with  floats  and  sinkers,  all  well  made.  All  tbeir  fish  is 
caught  with  nets  or  speared  ;  the  use  of  fishhooks  is  un- 
known. Under  and  behind  the  houses  are  sure  to  be 
quantities  of  pottery  in  different  stages  of  manufacture. 
The  women  only  make  these  ;  they  are  of  different  shapes, 
the  prevailing  one  being  just  the  shape  and  size  of  the  old 
Saxon  urns  as  they  are  occasionally  excavated  in  different 
parts  of  England.  The  women  are  by  far  the  most  indus- 
trious ;  the  lords  of  creation  are  lazy  scamps. 

'  There  is  no  doubt,  I  think,  of  the  Malayan  origin  of  this 
people  :  their  language  alone  indicates  it  sufficiently  ;  they 
only  inhabit  the  coast.  I  have  seen  some  bushmen  from  the 
interior.  They  are  darker  in  colour,  have  a  finer  physique, 
and  speak  a  totally  different  language  to  the  coast  tribes ; 
they  are  undoubtedly  the  indigenes  of  the  land.  The 
Malayans  have  driven  them  inland  and  taken  possession 
of  the  coast.  The  people  here  never  go  inland  to  work 
unarmed.  They  are  afraid  of  the  bushmen,  not  as  a 
body,  but  of  stragglers  who  might  surprise  and  kill  them. 
Occasionally  a  man  or  woman  is  killed  in  this  way.' 

For  a  few  months  things  went  well  at  Port  Moresby,  but 
in  the  course  of  1H75  the  prospect  darkened.  This  was  due 
partly  to  sickness,  and  partly  to  the  fact  that  after  the 
arrival  of  Mr.  Lawes  the  natives  showed  a  tendency  to 
neglect  and  despise  the  native  teachers.  This  was  due  not 
so  much  to  defects  in  the  teachers  themselves  as  to  the 
recognition  by  the  natives  of  the  white  man's  superiority, 
especially  in  his  possessions  and  his  power  of  making 
presents. 

In  a  letter  dated  January  3,  1876,  Mr.  Lawes  sums  up 
the  results  of  a  year's  work.  The  attendance  at  services 
is  smaller,  the  spirit  of  inquiry  less  active.  But  on  the 
other  hand  the  confidence  of  the  natives  has  been  obtained, 
the  object  of  the  mission  is  better  understood,  the  language 
has  been  reduced  to  writing,  and  seven  stations  are  now 
occupied. 

In  1S76  the  natives,  in  reprisal  for  previous  outrages  by 
white  men,  murdered  Dr.  James  and  Mr.  Thorngren  near 

G  g  2 


452  NEW   GUINEA 

Yule  Island,  and  for  a  time  the  lives  of  the  teachers  on 
that  island  were  in  great  danger.  Yet  the  chief  under 
whose  protection  they  were  living  carefully  and  vigorously 
protected  them.  But  at  Port  Moresby  affairs  assumed 
a  very  critical  aspect  Dr.  W.  Y.  Turner  had  been  ap- 
pointed as  a  colleague  to  Mr.  Lawes,  and  with  his  wife 
reached  Port  Moresby  in  March.  In  October,  on  account 
of  Mrs.  Turner's  health,  they  returned  to  Somerset.  There 
Mrs.  Turner  died  on  November  21,  and  Dr.  Turner  almost 
immediately  abandoned  the  mission,  his  connection  with 
the  Society  ceasing  in  October,  1877.  In  April,  1876, 
Mr.  Macfarlane  and  Mr.  Lawes  visited  the  south-eastern 
end  of  New  Guinea,  and  came  to  the  conclusion  that  work 
ought  also  to  be  begun  there.  Prior  to  this,  in  December, 
1875,  Mr.  Lawes  had  proceeded  in  the  Mayri.  a  little  vessel 
which  had  been  acquired  for  the  use  of  the  mission,  to  the 
region  of  Hood  Point  and  Bay,  where  he  stationed  some 
of  the  teachers  who  had  been  brought  to  Somerset  by  the 
John  Williams.  Hula  and  Kerepunu  were  the  chief  stations 
thus  occupied. 

In  1877  James  Chalmers  of  Rarotonga  was  requested  by 
the  Directors  to  proceed  to  New  Guinea,  to  begin  and  to 
superintend  regular  work  at  the  south-east  end  of  the  island. 
This,  in  the  experience  of  the  next  twenty  years,  proved  to 
have  been  an  appointment  of  the  highest  moment  to  Christian 
work  in  New  Guinea.  Mr.  Chalmers  was  a  born  pioneer. 
He  had  worked  for  ten  years  in  the  Hervey  group,  he  had 
trained  many  of  the  Rarotongan  teachers,  who  had  already 
begun  to  work  in  and  around  Port  Moresby.  His  heart 
was  full  of  love  to  New  Guinea,  and  of  the  desire  to  carry 
thither  the  light  of  the  Gospel.  The  new  field  and  the 
novel  conditions  of  life  and  work  were  to  reveal  the 
extraordinary  qualities  he  possessed  as  explorer  in  over- 
coming the  most  serious  difficulties,  in  winning  the  con- 
fidence of  fierce  and  degraded  savages,  and  in  planting  along 
the  whole  south-eastern  coast  of  New  Guinea  centres  of 
light  and  help.  Some  details  of  the  next  eighteen  years  of 
his  life— and  these  bulk  very  largely  in  the  history  of  the 


JAMES   CHALMERS  JOINS    THE  MISSION      453 

mission — are  given  in  his  books  :  Work  and  Adventure  in 
New  Guinea  (1885),  Pio7ieering  in  New  Guinea  (1887),  and 
Pioneer  Life  and  Work  in  New  Giiinea  (1895).  The  reader 
who  wishes  to  study  the  inner  working  of  one  of  the  most 
courageous  and  important  of  modern  missions,  abounding 
in  thrilHng  incident,  resolute  bravery,  and  persistent  endur- 
ance, should  carefully  study  these  volumes.  To  set  forth 
here  in  any  detail  the  work  at  the  many  villages  and 
stations  occupied  by  missionaries  and  native  teachers 
between  1877  and  1895  is  impossible.  We  can  but  indi- 
cate how  the  work  grew  and  developed  into  its  present 
importance. 

It  fell  to  Mr.  Macfarlane  to  introduce  Mr.  Chalmers  to 
his  first  post  of  work  in  New  Guinea.     In  October,  1877, 
Macfarlane  and   Chalmers   sailed   along  the  south-eastern 
coast  of  New  Guinea,  in  a  little  schooner  called  the  Bertha, 
to  explore  the  coast,  and  to  fix  upon  a  suitable  central  site 
for  a  mission  station.     Practically  nothing  was  known  at 
the  time  of  either  coast  or  people.     Mr.  Macfarlane  was  in 
charge  of  six  Loyalty  Island  teachers,  while  Mr.  Chalmers 
brought  with  him  two  Rarotongans,  and  at  Kerepunu  two 
more   Rarotongans  were   taken   on   board.      Teste  Island 
was  first  visited,  and  two  Loyalty  teachers  landed  there  ; 
then    Moresby   Island   was   visited,   and    next   East   Cape, 
where  teachers  also  were  landed.     Then  they  proceeded  to 
South  Cape,  where  Mr.  Chalmers  decided  to  begin  work. 
Originally  South  Cape  was  supposed  to  be  on  the  mainland, 
but  it   turned   out   to   be  on   an   island,  which   afterwards 
received  the  name  of  Stacey  Island.    The  stations  occupied 
b3^the  Loyalty  Islanders  w^ere  for  a  time  under  the  general 
superintendence  of  Mr.  Macfarlane  ;  those  at  and  near  South 
Cape  or  Suau,  as  it  is  often  called,  fell  to  Mr.  Chalmers' 
charge.      Very  shortly   such    as    continued    in   occupation 
became    out-stations,   superintended    from    Port    Moresby. 
It  was  at   Suau   in    1878   that   the   earliest    and    some    of 
the  most  exciting  episodes  in   Mr.  Chalmers'  New  Guinea 
career  occurred.     He  went   unarmed,  he   refused   to  give 
presents  under  compulsion,  and   from  the  first  he  exerted 


454 


NEIV    GUINEA 


a  powerful  influence  over  the  superstitious  and  savage 
natives.  Many  times  his  own  hfe  and  that  of  his 
courageous  and  devoted  wife  were  in  imminent  peril,  but 
God  protected  His  servants.  On  the  return  of  the  Mayri, 
the  captain,  a  man  unable  apparently  to  get  on  well  with 
natives,  shot  dead  one  whom  he  believed  to  be  on  the 
point  of  attacking  hhii.  This  placed  the  lives  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Chalmers  in  the  greatest  danger. 

'  The  principal  people  seemed  friendly,  and  kept  assuring 
us  that  all  was  right,  we  should  not  be  harmed.  Great 
was  the  wailing  when  the  body  was  landed,  and  arms  were 
up  and  down  pretty  frequently.  Canoes  began  to  crowd  in 
from  the  regions  around.  A  man  who  has  all  along  been 
very  friendly  and  kept  close  by  us  advised  us  strongly  to 
leave  during  the  night,  as,  assuredly,  when  the  war  canoes 
from  the  different  parts  came  in,  we  should  be  murdered. 
Mrs.  Chalmers  decidedly  opposed  our  leaving,  saying  that 
God  had  sent  us,  we  were  doing  His  work,  and  He  would 
protect  us  I' 

Not  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  missions,  when  the 
decision  to  go  or  stay  rested  with  a  Christian  lady,  courage 
and  faith  triumphed  over  very  present  and  very  real  peril. 
'  God  has  brought  us  here.  We  came  to  do  Christ's  work, 
and  He  will  protect  us.'  All  that  has  been  done  since 
these  words  fell  from  the  hps  of  Mrs.  Chalmers  is  an 
eloquent  vindication  of  her  faith  and  steadfastness. 

Early  in  1878  Mr.  Chalmers  explored  a  large  part  of  the 
neighbouring  coast.  He  sailed  in  the  Ellengowan,  visiting 
105  villages.  In  90  of  these  he  was  the  first  white  man  the 
natives  had  ever  seen.  It  was  on  this  journey  that  the 
famous  club  incident,  since  so  frequently  described  by 
Mr.  Chalmers  in  his  public  addresses,  took  place: — 

*The  tide  was  far  out  when  our  boat  touched  the  beach. 
A  crowd  met  us,  and  in  every  hand  was  a  club  or  spear. 
I  went  on  to  the  bow,  to  spring  ashore,  but  was  warned 
not  to  land.  I  told  them  I  had  come  to  see  the  chief,  had 
a  present  for  him,  and  must  see  him. 

'    H'or^  and  Adventure  in  Netv  Guinea,  p.  58. 


CHALMERS  IN  PERIL  455 

'"Give  us  your  present,  and  we  will  give  it  to  him,  but  you 
must  not  land." 

' '''  I  am  Tamate,  from  Suau,  and  have  come  as  a  friend  to 
visit  your  old  chief,  and  I  must  land." 

'An  elderly  woman  came  close  up  to  the  boat,  saying, 
"You  must  not  land,  but  I  will  take  the  present,  or," 
pointing  to  a  young  man  close  by,  '•  he  will  take  it  for  his 
father,"  he  being  the  chiefs  son. 

'"No;  I  must  see  the  chief  for  myself;  but  the  son 
I  should  also  like  to  know,  and  will  give  him  a  present 
too." 

'  Springing  ashore,  followed  by  the  mate,  a  fine  daring 
fellow,  much  accustomed  to  roughing  it  on  the  diggings, 
and  not  the  least  afraid  of  natives,  I  walked  up  the  long 
beach  to  the  village,  to  the  chief's  house.  The  old  man 
was  seated  on  the  platform  in  front  of  the  house,  and  did 
not  even  deign  to  rise  to  receive  us.  I  told  him  who  I  was, 
and  the  object  of  my  coming.  He  heard  me  through,  and 
treated  the  whole  as  stale  news.  I  placed  my  present  on 
the  platform  in  front  of  him,  and  waited  for  some  word 
of  satisfaction  ;  but  none  escaped  the  stern  old  chieftain. 
Presents  of  beads  were  handed  to  little  children  in  arms, 
but  indignantly  returned.  Loud  laughing  in  the  outskirts 
of  crowd,  and  little  jostling. 

'"Gould/'  said  I  to  the  mate,  "I  think  we  had  better 
get  away  from  here  ;  keep  eyes  all  round,  and  let  us  make 
quietly  to  the  beach." 

'  To  the  chief  I  said,  '''  Friend,  I  am  going,  you  stay." 
Lifting  his  eyebrows,  he  said,  "  Go." 

•  We  were  followed  by  the  crowd,  one  man  with  a  large 
round  club  walking  behind  me,  and  uncomfortably  near. 
Had  I  that  club  in  my  hand,  I  should  feel  a  little  more 
comfortable.  When  on  the  beach  we  saw  the  canoes  had  left 
the  vessel,  and  were  hurrying  ashore  ;  our  boat  was  soon 
afloat;  still,  we  had  some  distance  to  go.  I  must  have  that 
club,  or  I  fear  that  club  will  have  me.  I  had  a  large  piece 
of  hoop-iron,  such  as  is  highly  prized  by  the  natives,  in  my 
satchel  ;  taking  it,  I  wheeled  quickly  round,  presented  it  to 


456  NEW    GUINEA 

the  savacre,  whose  e\'es  were  dazzled  as  with  a  bar  of  gold. 
With  my  left  hand  I  caught  the  club,  and  before  he 
became  conscious  of  what  was  done  I  was  heading  the 
procession,  armed  as  a  savage,  and  a  good  deal  more 
comfortable.     We  got  safely  away\' 

In  many  conversations  with  the  writer  the  great 
missionary  has  affirmed  and  reaffirmed,  with  many  striking 
illustrations,  his  belief  in  a  special  Providence.  In  some 
cases  God,  for  reasons  beyond  our  ken,  permits  the 
young  and  enthusiastic  and  able  worker  to  fall  at  the  very 
bef^innine  of  the  work  that  seems  so  needful,  and  for  which 
he  seems  so  fitted.  In  others  God  brings  His  servant  time 
after  time  safely  through  perils,  the  escape  from  which  can 
be  traced  only  to  the  Divine  protecting  Hand.  More  times 
than  he  can  well  number  has  James  Chalmers  fearlessly 
and  safely  walked  with  only  a  step  between  him  and  death. 
Here  is  one  out  of  many  such  experiences  : — 

*  After  visiting  the  Keakaro  and  Aroma  districts,  our 
journeyings  were  nearly  brought  to  a  sudden  termination. 
When  we  got  halfway  between  the  point  next  to  Macfarlane 
Harbour,  and  Mailu,  where  there  is  a  boat  entrance, 
we  saw  the  boat,  and  w^aved  to  them  to  approach.  They 
came  near  to  the  surf,  but  not  near  enough  for  us  to  get 
on  board.  I  called  out  to  them  to  proceed  to  the 
boat  entrance  at  Mailu.  Great  numbers  of  natives  were 
with  us ;  we  saw,  in  the  distance,  numbers  more  sitting 
on  the  beach,  and  armed.  Some  of  those  following  us  were 
armed.  When  within  two  miles  of  where  the  boat  was  to 
await  us,  we  came  upon  a  crowd  of  men  and  women ;  the 
former  carried  spears,  clubs,  or  pieces  of  hard  wood,  used 
in  opening  cocoa-nuts  ;  the  women  had  clubs.  Some  time 
before  this,  I  said  to  the  teacher  and  Loyalty  Islander, 
"  Keep  a  good  look  out ;  I  fear  there  is  mischief  here." 
When  we  came  upon  the  last  group,  I  asked  for  a  cocoa- 
nut  in  exchange  for  beads  ;  the  man  was  giving  it  to  me, 
when  a  young  man  stepped  forward  and  sent  him  back. 
We  hastened  our  steps,  so  as  to  get  to  the  village,  where 

'    Work  and  Adventure  in  New  Guinea   pp.  66,  67. 


CHALMERS  PROTECTED  BY  A   CHIEF         457 

the  strangers  from  Mailukolo  and  Kapumari  might  help  us. 
The  teacher  heard  them  discussing  as  to  the  best  place  for 
the  attack  ;  and,  not  knowing  that  he  knew  what  they 
said,  he  heard  much  that  left  no  doubt  in  our  minds  that 
murder  was  meant.  I  carried  a  satchel,  which  had  beads 
and  hoop-iron  in  it ;  they  tried  to  get  it.  I  gave  presents 
of  beads  ;  some  were  indignantly  returned.  I  was  in  front, 
between  two  men  with  clubs,  who  kept  telling  me  I  was 
a  bad  man.  I  held  their  hands,  and  kept  them  so  that 
they  could  not  use  their  clubs.  The  Loyalty  Islander  had 
a  fowling-piece,  thinking  we  might  be  away  some  days,  and 
we  might  have  to  shoot  our  dinners.  They  tried  hard  to 
get  him  to  fire  it  off,  and  twice  tried  to  wrest  it  from  him. 
They  knew  what  guns  were,  and  with  reason.  They  tried 
to  trip  us  ;  they  jostled  us.     On  we  went. 

'  Two  other  men,  when  near  the  village,  came  close  up 
behind  me  with  large  wooden  clubs,  which  were  taken  from 
them  by  two  women,  who  ran  off  to  the  village.  Things  looked 
black,  and  each  of  us  prayed  in  silence  to  Him  who  rules 
over  the  heathen.  Soon  a  man  came  rushing  along,  seized 
the  club,  and  took  it  from  the  man  on  my  left,  and  threw  it 
in  the  sea.  He  tried  to  do  the  same  with  the  one  on  my 
right;  but  he  was  too  light  a  man,  and  did  not  succeed. 
An  old  woman,  when  at  the  point,  came  out  and  asked 
them  what  they  meant,  and  followed  us,  talking  to  them  all 
the  way,  so  dividing  their  thoughts.  An  old  chief,  whom 
we  saw  on  our  way  up,  came  hurriedly  along  to  meet  us, 
calling  out,  "  Mine  is  the  peace  !  What  have  these  foreigners 
done  that  you  want  to  kill  them?  "  He  closed  up  to  the 
teacher,  and  took  him  by  the  hand.  Another  chief  walked 
close  behind  me.  They  began  to  talk  loudly  amongst 
themselves.  Some  were  finding  fault  that  we  should  have 
been  allowed  to  get  near  the  village,  and  others  that  there 
was  yet  time.  The  boat  was  anchored  some  distance  off: 
we  got  her  nearer  ;  and,  when  ready  to  move  off  to  the 
boat,  I  opened  my  satchel,  gave  hoop-iron  to  our  friends 
the  chiefs,  and  threw  beads  amongst  the  crowd.  I  shouted 
for  Kapumari,  and  a  sturdy  young  fellow  fought  his  way 


458  NEW    GUINEA 


through  the  crowd.  I  gave  him  a  piece  of  hoop-iron,  and, 
with  our  friendly  chiefs,  he  forced  the  crowd  back,  calling 
on  us  to  be  quick  and  follow.  So  into  the  water  w^e  got, 
the  chiefs  calling,  "  Go  quick ;  go  quick ! "  We  got  on 
board ;  our  Chinamen  got  flustered,  and  very  nearly  let  the 
boat  drift  broadside  on  the  beach  ;  we,  with  poles  and  oars, 
got  her  round  and  off,  sails  set,  and  away  for  Kerepunu. 
Before  changing  clothes,  we  thanked  God  our  Father  for 
His  protection  and  care  over  us.  We  felt  He  alone  did 
all ;  unsettled  their  thoughts  as  to  who  first,  where,  and 
when  ;  and  it  was  He  who  gave  us  friends. 

'  Why  should  they  want  to  kill  us  ?  It  was  surely  never 
for  the  small  satchel  I  carried.  I  believe  it  was  revenge. 
Some  years  ago  a  vessel  called  off  Aroma ;  trading  for 
food  was  done  on  board  ;  thieving  went  on  ;  food  was  sold 
twice ;  revolvers  and  rifles  were  brought  out ;  the  natives 
were  fired  on,  several  were  wounded,  and  very  likely  some 
were  killed.  Natives  on  the  beach  were  fired  upon,  and 
some  were  wounded  who  were  hiding  in  the  bush  close  by. 
We  land — the  first  foreigners  to  visit  them — and  on  us 
they  will  be  revenged.  What  a  pity  that  the  same 
foreigners  who  fire  on  the  natives  do  not  return  the 
loUowing  w^eek,  and  so  receive  their  deserts  ^ ! ' 

During  3878  a  vigorous  attempt  was  made  to  consolidate 
the  Eastern  Mission.  Samarai,  better  known  as  Dinner 
Island,  was  made  chief  station  by  Mr.  Macfarlane,  and 
several  new  stations  were  opened  up  around  Milne  Bay. 
Mr.  Chalmers  also  visited  the  districts  of  Farm  and 
(>)rangerie  Bays,  and  placed  teachers  at  the  Leocadie 
Islands,  Savaia,  Isuisu,  Dufaure,  and  Orangerie  Bay. 
Meanwhile  Mrs.  Chalmers'  health  failed,  and  in  September, 

1878,  she   left   for   Sydney,  where  she  died,  February  20, 

1879.  Mr.  Chalmers  remained  in  New  Guinea,  and  after 
a  short  visit  to  Sydney  subsequent  to  his  wife's  death, 
returned  and  threw  himself  with  greater  energy  than  ever 
into  the  work  of  exploration  and  stationing  teachers. 

'   //  ork  and  Adventure  in  Neio  Gtimea,  pp.  80-83. 


LAWES'  WORK  AT  PORT  MORESBY  459 

On  November  22,  1H79,  in  company  with  Mr.  Beswick, 
who  had  reached  New  Guinea  in  January  of  that  year, 
and  Piri,  one  of  the  first  band  of  Rarotongan  teachers, 
Mr.  Chalmers  started  to  explore  the  Gulf  of  Papua.  Brief 
visits  had  previously  been  paid  by  travellers,  traders,  and 
Mr.  Macfarlane,  to  points  on  this  coast,  but  very  little 
was  really  known  about  it.  The  natives  were  believed  to 
be  the  most  ferocious  and  degraded  on  the  island.  On 
this  occasion  Mr.  Chalmers  visited  and  practically  opened 
to  missionary  efforts  the  coast-line  from  Yule  Island  to 
Bald  Head,  containing  such  now  well-known  villages  and 
stations  as  Maiva,  Oiapu,  Jokea,  Motumotu,  Vailala,  and 
Orokolo.  It  was  during  this  journey  that  Mr.  Chalmers 
first  sketched  the  plan  of  work  adopted  in  later  years  of 
making  Motumotu  his  head  quarters,  and  working  from 
thence  as  a  permanent  centre  the  whole  coast-line  of  the 
Papuan  Gulf. 

For  some  time  to  come  journeys  of  this  kind  made  up 
the  bulk  of  work  done,  and  of  work  possible.  To  get  to 
know  the  country,  to  get  on  terms  of  acquaintanceship  and 
of  friendly  relations  with  the  people,  to  gain  by  skilful 
presents  their  good  will,  and  to  enable  them  dimly  to 
comprehend  why  mission  work  was  being  undertaken 
on  their  behalf,  to  place  wherever  possible  good  native 
teachers — these  things  month  by  month  were  laying  broad 
and  fair  the  foundations  for  future  successful  work.  During 
1879-1882  Mr.  Lawes  at  Port  Moresby  was  more  and  more 
perfectly  acquiring  the  language,  preparing  the  needful 
elementary  books,  and  first  translations  of  the  Gospels, 
founding,  conducting,  and  developing  the  training  insti- 
tution for  New  Guinea  natives.  Mr.  Chalmers  was  making 
himself  known  from  South  Cape  to  Bald  Head,  everywhere 
as  the  friend,  the  teacher,  and  the  helper  of  the  natives. 

It  is  not  always  easy  for  those  at  home  to  realize  how 
necessary,  nay  how  indispensable,  work  of  this  kind  is 
among  savage  peoples.  They  are  impatient  for  results,  and 
too  often  even  the  missionary  grows  either  too  hasty  in 
judging   fruitfulness  or  too  sanguine  in  his  outlook.     Mr. 


460  NEW   GUINEA 

Chalmers  rarely  yields  to  this  weakness,  as  an  illustration 
will  prove. 

'  On  the  Sunday  after  landing  at  Delena  we  went  down 
and  had  service  in  the  village.  Kone  interpreted  into  Lolo. 
When  telling  the  people  we  had  no  work  for  them  on 
Sunday,  Kone  said :  "  Oh  !  we  know,  and  we,  too,  are  going 
to  be  Jiclaga  (sacred)  to-morrow."  I  asked  him,  "  Come, 
Kone,  how  do  you  know  ?  "  "  From  Boera."  I  met  a  lad 
repeating  the  Lord's  Prayer  in  Motu,  and  found  he  had 
been  taught  by  Piri.  The  Motu  tribe  has  already  had 
great  influence,  and  will  hav^e  more  and  more  every  year. 
I  have  an  interesting  class  of  children,  and  hope,  before  we 
leave,  they  will  know  their  letters  well.  What  nonsense 
one  could  write  of  the  reception  here — such  as  "  Everybody 
at  service  this  morning  listened  attentively  ;  commented 
on  address  or  conversation  ;  children  all  come  to  school,  so 
intelligent,  and  seemingly  anxious  to  learn  ;  and,  altogether, 
prospects  are  bright."  At  home  they  would  say.  Why,  they 
are  being  converted  ;  see  the  speedy  triumph  !  Alas  !  they 
are  but  savages,  pure  and  simple,  rejoicing  in  the  prospect 
of  an  unlimited  supply  of  tobacco,  beads,  and  tomahawks  ^.' 

On  December  12,  1880,  Chalmers  wrote  home  as  follows  : 

'  May  I  ask  you  to  still  wait  awhile  for  a  report  on  the 
mission.  Sometimes  in  the  boat  I  have  found  it  difficult 
to  say  whether  it  was  the  first  streaks  of  dawn  I  saw  or  not ; 
so  waited  a  little,  and  if  they  increased  there  was  no  doubt 
left.  We  are  in  that  state  here.  I  think  it  is  morning 
breaking,  but  I  want  to  be  sure.  Natives  do  many  things 
like  parrots — pray,  keep  Sabbath,  and  come  to  services,  so 
that  I  would  not  put  too  much  trust  in  their  doings.  We 
have  all  these  and  something  more,  I  think,  a  few  who 
really  pray,  and  whose  lives  are  working  parallel.' 

On  March  7,  1881,  the  Kalo  Massacre  occurred,  an  event 
which  illustrates  the  risks  of  mission  work  among  excitable 
and  cruel  savages.  Kalo  is  a  village  at  the  head  of  Hood 
Bay,  at  which  for  some  time  Anederea,  one  of  the  original 
Rarotongan  teachers,  had  been  stationed.     The  teacher  at 

'    Work  and  Adventure  in  New  Guinea,  pp.  210,  211. 


THE  KALO  MASSACRE  461 

Hula,  Taria  by  name,  heard  a  rumour  that  the  Kalo  people 
were  going  to  kill  their  teacher.  With  an  inland  teacher 
named  Matatuhi,  who  wished  to  visit  Anederea  to  get 
some  medicine,  Taria  visited  Kalo,  told  Anederea  what  he 
had  heard,  and  urged  him  to  leave.  He  refused  to  believe 
the  report,  and  would  not  abandon  his  work.  Matatuhi 
remained  with  him,  but  two  days  later.  March  7,  Taria 
returned,  having  with  him  in  his  boat  the  Kerepunu  teacher 
and  his  wife,  whom  he  was  removing  for  the  benefit  of  their 
health.  Anederea.  his  wife  and  two  children,  with  Matatuhi. 
came  down  to  the  boat  and  got  into  it.  A  chief  who  had 
all  along  pretended  to  be  friendly  to  the  teachers  then  gave 
a  preconcerted  signal,  and  ten  persons  were  immediately 
speared.  The  only  reason  assigned  for  the  savage  deed 
was  that  the  people  of  Kalo  wished  to  rival  the  deeds 
of  their  neighbours,  who  had  recently  murdered  some 
foreigners.  The  teachers  murdered  on  this  occasion  were 
some  of  the  best  ever  stationed  in  New  Guinea. 

In  i<S84  the  British  Protectorate  was  formally  pro- 
claimed over  a  large  part  of  south-eastern  New  Guinea, 
first  at  Port  Moresby,  then  at  certain  stations  in  the 
Papuan  Gulf,  then  at  the  eastern  extremity,  and  finally 
along  part  of  the  north-eastern  coast.  Every  effort  was 
made  on  the  part  of  Her  Majesty's  officers  to  enable  the 
natives  correctly  to  understand  the  meaning  of  the  Pro- 
tectorate, and  in  this  effort  Mr.  Lawes  and  Mr.  Chalmers, 
acting  as  interpreters,  were  able  to  be  of  the  greatest 
possible  assistance.  It  was  of  incalculable  benefit  to  the 
natives  at  the  time  of  the  annexation  that  the  tu^o  whites 
who  possessed  so  powerful  an  influence  over  the  native 
mind  were  earnest  active  Christian  men. 

The  following  unpublished  letter  from  Mr.  Lawes  enables 
the  reader  to  picture  the  condition  of  the  New  Guinea  work. 
It  is  dated  October  30,  1884. 

*  Before  you  get  this  you  will  have  learnt  that  New 
Guinea  is  proclaimed  a  British  Protectorate.  H.  M.  S. 
Harrier  came  last  week  with  Mr.  Roniilly,  Deputy  Com- 
missioner, on  board.     He  was  authorized  to  proclaim  the 


462  NEW    GUINEA 

Protectorate,  and  at  the  same  time  to  announce  that  all 
purchase  of  land  from  the  natives  was  strictly  prohibited. 
A  week  ago  to-day  the  ceremony  of  hoisting  the  Union 
Jack  and  saluting  it  took  place.  Mr.  Romilly  read  the 
proclamation.  I  read  a  translation  of  it  at  his  request, 
and  explained  it  briefly  to  the  people.  The  flag  was  then 
hauled  up,  I  offered  prayer,  and  directly  after  twenty  blue- 
jackets fired  a  feu  de  joie  in  honour  of  the  flag.  So  ended 
the  ceremony  of  adding  a  country  larger  than  Great  Britain 
to  the  dependencies  of  the  British  Empire.  This  is  the 
second  time  that  our  flagstaff  has  been  honoured  by 
hoisting  on  it  and  saluting  the  English  flag. 

'  The  Sunday  before  all  this  happened  we  had  a  cere- 
mony of  a  different  kind  in  the  church — one  which  in  many 
respects  was  more  important,  and  is  likely  to  have  a 
greater  influence  on  the  people  of  New  Guinea.  On  that 
day  the  first  student  from  our  college  here  was  publicly 
set  apart  for  the  work  of  the  Christian  ministry.  Eight 
others  will  be  the  subjects  of  a  like  dedicatory  service 
next  Sabbath.  The  appointment  of  these  young  men  has 
created  a  wonderful  amount  of  interest  and  enthusiasm. 
We  were  afraid  that  when  the  time  came  for  them  to  eo 
out  there  would  be  a  great  objection  to  going  far  away. 
Instead  of  that  they  are  all  anxious  for  ''  foreign  "  work, 
and  those  to  be  placed  in  villages  near  want  to  be  sent 
by-and-by  to  regions  beyond.  The  reason  for  the  ordina- 
tion of  one  before  the  others  was  that  the  Ellengowan  was 
going  west,  and  the  large  Kevori  district  there  had  just 
been  left  teacherless  by  the  death  of  their  recently  ap- 
pointed Tahitian  teacher,  Tuaana.  Rarna  goes  to  take  his 
place.  Most  of  the  others  are  going  to  places  where  we 
have  had  foreign  teachers.  How  glad  we  are  to  be  able  to 
fill  these  gaps  with  natives  about  whose  health  we  need 
not  be  anxious. 

'You  will  wonder,  perhaps,  what  are  the  qualifications  of 
these  young  men  who  are  now  going;  out.  They  have  been 
two  years  with  us  here,  we  know  them  well,  and  have  no 
doubt  whatever  of  their  fitness  for  the  work  to  which  they 


PORT  MORESBY  TRAINING  INSTITUTION      463 

are  going.  Just  such  men  as  these  have  been  most  highly 
honoured  of  God  in  our  South  Sea  Island  Mission.  The 
early  pioneer  teachers  in  the  South  Seas  had  not  as  much 
knowledge  as  these  New  Guinea  pioneers.  They  have  the 
Gospels  of  Matthew  and  Mark  in  their  own  language,  can 
read  them  well,  and  have  a  fair  grasp  of  their  contents. 
Their  Christian  character  from  the  time  of  their  admission 
to  the  church  until  now  has  been  thoroughly  consistent. 

'The  expense  of  training  these  young  men  has  been  very 
small.  You  have  no  training  institution  connected  with 
the  London  Missionary  Society  that  is  so  cheap.  Thirty 
shillings  will  cover  all  expense  of  a  man  and  his  wife  for 
keep  for  one  year,  and  clothes  come  to  about  the  same. 
It  is  an  immense  advantage  that  all  the  instruction  we  give 
and  all  the  books  they  have  are  in  their  own  language,  or 
in  a  language  which  is  so  near  their  own  that  they  under- 
stand it  thoroughly  in  a  few  weeks.  No  advantages  of 
non-residence,  or  deportation  to  an  island  miles  away,  can 
ever  compensate  for  the  loss  of  this. 

'  It  is  ten  years  next  month  since  Mrs.  Lawes  and  I 
landed  here  at  Port  Moresby.  I  have  no  wish  to  take 
stock  or  weigh  results,  but  I  rejoice  and  thank  God  for  all 
that  my  eyes  see  and  my  ears  hear.  He  has  blessed  His 
work  beyond  all  our  expectations.  A  church  has  been 
formed,  teachers  sent  out,  and  the  four  Gospels  translated 
into  the  language  of  the  people.  Through  His  grace  the 
foundation  has  been  laid  upon  which  a  grand  temple  may 
rise  to  His  glory.  I  look  upon  the  completion  of  the 
Gospels  as  the  necessary  complement  to  the  appointment 
of  the  teachers.  Without  that  portion  of  the  Word  of  God 
they  would  go  out  but  poorly  equipped,  and  at  best  with 
but  a  few  weeks'  rations.  No  translation  from  a  translation 
made  by  a  South  Sea  Island  teacher  can  be  worth  much. 
One  of  our  best  teachers,  Pi,  at  South  Cape,  prepared  at 
our  request  the  Gospel  of  Mark  in  that  dialect.  We 
intended  having  it  printed,  but  when  Mr.  Chalmers  began 
revising  it,  with  some  of  our  South  Cape  students,  he  soon 
found  that  it  was  a  hopeless  task  attempting  to  correct  it.' 


464  NEW    GUINEA 

For  years  the  Roman  Catholics  had  been  trying  to  gain 
a  fooling  in  New  Guinea.  At  length,  in  1886,  Yule  Island 
was  permanently  occupied  by  them,  and  after  discussion 
and  mutual  agreement  the  Society  withdrew  the  native 
teacher  whom  for  some  time  it  had  maintained  there. 

Owing  to  some  informality,  or  to  the  receipt  of  late 
instructions,  the  British  Protectorate  was  again  proclaimed 
on  November  6,  1884,  at  Port  Moresby,  by  Commodore 
P>skine,  of  H.  M.  S.  Nelson,  who  was  in  command  of  a 
small  fleet.  Mr.  Chalmers  accompanied  the  squadron  as 
far  west  as  Motumotu,  and  then  as  far  east  as  Teste  Island. 
In  December,  1884,  Commander  Ross,  of  the  Raven,  re- 
ceived orders  to  proceed  at  once  to  Huon  Gulf  and  there 
hoist  the  British  flag.  This  expedition  also  Mr.  Chalmers 
accompanied,  placing  at  the  service  of  the  Government  his 
unrivalled  knowledge  of  the  natives  and  of  their  habits  and 
customs.  The  first  Special  Commissioner  appointed  to 
New  Guinea  was  Sir  Peter  Scratchley.  In  the  latter  part 
of  1885  he  reached  New  Guinea  and  visited  all  the  chief 
places  in  his  district.  He  was  anxious  to  have  the  benefit 
of  Chalmers'  services  in  introducing  him  to  the  chiefs,  and 
in  securing  on  their  part  a  proper  understanding  of  the 
new  relations  of  the  British  Government  towards  them. 
Although  his  furlough  was  many  years  overdue,  so  im- 
portant did  Chalmers  feel  this  work  to  be,  that  he  postponed 
it  another  year,  and  accompanied  the  general  throughout 
his  whole  first  visit  of  inspection.  Unfortunately  the 
general  contracted  the  New  Guinea  fever  in  such  a  severe 
form  that  he  had  to  return  to  Australia,  and  there  died — 
a  great  loss  to  New  Guinea.  His  successor,  Sir  William 
MacGregor,  resembled  him  in  two  most  important  respects- 
deep  interest  in,  and  active  effort  to  secure  the  best  interests 
of  the  natives  under  his  control  ;  and  the  desire  to  consult, 
and  frequently  to  be  guided  in  his  decisions  by  the  know- 
ledge and  experience  of  the  resident  missionaries.  So  far 
at  least  the  annexation  of  a  large  part  of  New  Guinea 
has  been  wholly  beneficial  to  the  native  population. 

The  last  step  in  the  series  of  political  changes  was  taken 


ANNEXATION  OF  BRITISH  NEW  GUINEA      465 

In  1888,  when  British  New  Guinea  was  formally  annexed, 
and  British  sovereignty  proclaimed  over  the  whole  of  it. 
A  letter  from  Mr.  Lawes,  dated  Port  Moresby,  Septem- 
ber 24,  1888,  is  of  special  interest  in  this  connection  : — 

'  The  long-expected  proclamation  of  British  sovereignty 
was  duly  performed  on  the  4th  inst.  British  New  Guinea 
is  now  a  part  of  the  Queen's  dominions,  and  the  people  of 
it  are  as  much  her  subjects  as  you  and  I.  On  the  morning 
of  that  day  the  Harrier  with  Tamate  on  board  left  for 
Thursday  Island,  so  that,  to  our  regret,  he  was  not  present 
at  the  inaugural  function.  There  was  not  much  display, 
and  it  was  well  that  there  was  not,  for  flag-hoisting  must 
seem  to  the  natives  to  be  a  white  man's  amusement.  The 
function  of  the  4th  was  the  tenth  at  which  I  had  been 
present  on  New  Guinea.     It  is  getting  monotonous. 

'  The  Proclamation  was  duly  read,  Dr.  MacGregor's 
appointment  as  Administrator,  the  Letters  Patent  contain- 
ing his  instructions,  &c.;  then  the  oaths  of  allegiance  and 
office  were  administered  by  Capt.  Bosanquet  of  H.M.S. 
Opal,  the  Royal  Standard  was  hoisted  and  saluted  with 
twenty-one  guns  from  the  Opal,  the  marines  fired  a  fete 
de  joie,  three  cheers  for  the  Queen  were  given  by  her  white 
subjects,  and  the  ceremony  ended,  so  far  as  the  official 
programme  was  concerned.  But  as  soon  as  the  English 
cheers  died  away  a  party  of  well-dressed  New  Guineans 
stood  up  behind  the  flag-staff  and  sang  clearly  and  well 
a  verse  of  God  save  the  Queen.  It  took  the  officers  and 
men  quite  by  surprise.  Dr.  MacGregor  expressed  his 
surprise  and  pleasure  at  this  unexpected  addition  to  the 
ceremony.  Of  course  it  was  done  by  our  mission  young 
men  and  women.  When  I  saw  them  grouped  behind  the 
flag-staff,  I  sent  a  message  to  them  which  they  obeyed 
very  nicely. 

'  I  think  the  bearing  of  this  new  order  on  our  work  will 
be  for  good.  Dr.  MacGregor  is  a  man  who  thoroughly 
understands  natives,  and  in  his  long  Fijian  experience  has 
become  well  acquainted  with  the  work  of  the  Wcslcyan 
mission,  and  with  the  persons  of  the  teachers.     This  is  an 

I.  H  h 


466  NEW    GUINEA 

enormous  advantage,  and  one  for  which  we  may  be  deeply 
grateful.  Any  one  who  knows  the  misunderstandings  and 
friction  of  the  last  three  years  will  appreciate  it.  I  am  quite 
certain  that  the  natives  and  mission  have  a  good  friend  in 
Dr.  MacGregor. 

'Already  laws  (officially  called  Ordinances)  have  been 
passed  by  which  the  land  has  been  secured  to  the  natives 
in  a  more  stringent  manner  than  we  dared  to  hope  for. 
Deportation  of  natives  has  been  made  illegal,  and  the 
introduction  of  intoxicants,  opium,  firearms,  and  explosives 
is  prohibited.' 

The  development  of  Christian  life  and  work  in  the  New 
Guinea  Mission  must  form  part  of  the  second  century  of  the 
Society's  history.  All  that  can  be  claimed  at  present  (1899)  is 
that  the  needful  pioneer  work  has  been  done;  vast  influence 
over  the  native  mind  has  been  obtained  ;  many  very  hopeful 
stations  have  been  commenced  ;  and  in  a  large  number 
of  individual  cases  the  Gospel  has  brought  life  and  joy  and 
peace  to  dark  and  savage  hearts.  But  the  conditions  of  work 
have  been  hard,  and  the  changes  in  staff,  due  to  sickness  and 
other  causes,  have  been  very  rapid,  and  this  necessarily  has 
hindered  the  progress  of  the  work.  In  1885  Mr.  Watson 
Sharpe  reached  Port  Moresby,  and  in  1886  he  died.  In 
1^87  Mr.  Pearse  of  Raiatea  came  to  New  Guinea.  He,  like 
Macfarlane,  Lawes,  and  Chalmers,  had  served  a  long  and 
useful  apprenticeship  in  the  South  Seas.  For  the  last  eight 
years  he  has  been  a  most  effective  worker  at  Kerepunu. 
In  1888  Messrs.  Walker  and  Dauncey,  two  young  active 
men  who  had  just  completed  their  course  at  Cheshunt 
College,  arrived  ;  and  under  the  former  the  work  at  Suau 
has  been  steadily  maintained  and  developed.  In  1890 
Mr.  Abel  reached  New  Guinea. 

In  1891  the  head  quarters  of  the  Eastern  Mission  were 
removed  from  Suau  to  Kwato.  Samarai  or  Dinner  Island 
was  requisitioned  by  the  Government.  In  exchange  they 
presented  the  Society  with  the  island  of  Kwato,  only  a  few 
miles  west  of  Samarai,  and  this  Mr.  Walker  selected  as  the 
best  permanent  centre  of  work.     Here  he  was  joined  by 


KWATO,   KEREPUNU  AXD    I 'A  TOR  ATA  467 

Mr.  C.  W.  Abel,  who  carried  on  the  central  work,  while 
Mr.  Walker  superintended  the  out-stations.  In  1891  also 
the  natives  of  Niue  presented  to  this  branch  of  the  mission 
a  fine  little  vessel  called  after  the  name  of  their  own  island. 
During  1892  the  work  went  steadily  forward.  Mr.  Walker, 
visiting  Sydney  for  his  health,  carried  through  the  press 
there  the  Gospel  of  Mark  ;  a  hymn-book,  containing  also 
a  Catechism,  the  Commandments,  and  the  Lord's  Prayer ; 
and  a  lesson-book,  all  in  the  Suau  language.  Mr.  Abel 
reported  an  attendance  at  Kwato  of  twenty-four  students 
and  wives,  with  eighty-two  boys  and  girls  in  the  school.  In 
1894  the  work  at  Kwato  passed  entirely  under  Mr.  Abel's 
care,  Mr.  Walker  having  removed  to  Motumotu  to  take 
charge  of  Mr.  Chalmers'  district  during  his  absence  in 
England  at  the  Centenary  celebrations. 

At  Kerepunu  under  Mr.  Pearse  the  work  has  steadily 
grown  in  importance  and  success.  A  Christian  Church  is 
being  surely  and  effectively  built  up  there.  In  this  district 
the  most  manifest  and  wide-spread  evidences  of  blessing 
are  found.  In  1895  the  number  of  communicants  at  Kere- 
punu was  515.  School  work  is  also  actively  superintended, 
and  a  considerable  part  of  the  New  Testament  has  been 
translated  into  the  vernacular. 

Port  Moresby,  on  the  other  hand,  has  retrograded.  As 
at  Papeete,  Apia,  and  other  ports,  the  influences  adverse  to 
Christian  life  are  very  strong.  So  keenly  was  this  felt  to 
be  the  case,  that  in  ]  894  the  training  institution  was  removed 
to  Vatorata,  a  district  situated  to  the  eastward  of  Port 
Moresby,  a  short  distance  inland  from  Kapakapa.  The 
aim  of  Dr.  Lawes  was  to  establish  there  an  institution  on  the 
lines  of  Malua,  free  from  the  special  hindrances  at  Port 
Moresby,  and  capable  of  training  good  native  pastors  for 
the  coast-line  a  good  distance  on  either  side  of  Port 
Moresby.  Here  also  he  superintended  that  literary  work 
which  is  of  such  incalculable  importance  for  the  future. 
The  New  Testament  has  been  translated  into  Motuan, 
and  printed  by  the  Bible  Society.  An  Old  Testament 
history,  a  school  geography  and  arithmetic,  a  h}-mn-book 

H  h  2 


468  NEW    GUINEA 

containing  204  hymns,  and  other  less  important  works  have 
been  issued.  Similar  work  in  the  languages  of  the  respec- 
tive regions,  but  on  a  smaller  scale,  is  being  carried  on  at 
Kerepunu,  Kwato,  and  Jokea.  In  1894  Mr.  A.  E.  Hunt 
returned  from  Samoa  to  New  Guinea  to  reside  and  continue 
mission-work  at  Port  Moresby. 

Toward  the  close  of  1891  Mr.  Chalmers  purchased  the 
steam  launch  Miro,  and  in  this,  during  1892  and  1893, 
many  visits  were  made  to  all  the  stations  in  Torres  Straits 
and  along  the  coast  of  the  mainland.  One  considerable 
journey  up  the  Fly  River  was  also  made.  The  evangeliza- 
tion of  the  banks  of  that  great  stream  is  still  a  dream  of  the 
future.  The  wise  course  seems  to  be  to  strengthen  as  much 
as  possible  the  work  at  those  stations  which  the  experience 
of  twenty-five  years  has  shown  to  be  most  hopeful.  Then, 
as  the  work  consolidates  there,  a  sound  and  reliable  base 
will  be  obtained  for  the  still  greater  extension  of  the  work 
necessary  to  win  all  New  Guinea  to  Christ. 

At  the  present  moment  (1899)  mission-work  is  being 
actively  carried  on  from  Milne  Bay  to  Bald  Head.  By 
friendly  arrangement  the  north-east  coast-line,  with  the 
adjacent  islands,  from  Milne  Bay  to  Cape  Vogel,  is 
entrusted  to  the  Australasian  Wesleyan  Missionary  Society  ; 
and  from  Cape  Vogel  to  the  Mitre  Rock,  to  the  Australian 
Church  of  England  Mission. 

The  number  of  London  Missionary  Society  native 
teachers  varies  from  year  to  year,  but  on  the  whole  the  list 
of  stations  and  of  teachers  is  steadily  lengthening.  The 
rate  of  progress  varies  at  each  station,  just  as  the  people 
themselves  differ,  and  also  the  mental  and  spiritual  qualities 
of  the  teachers.  But  good  work  is  going  on,  sometimes 
quickly,  sometimes  slowly,  but  ^v^v  going  on.  Each  station 
is  a  centre  of  light  and  help  for  the  surrounding  region. 

The  mission  possesses  exceptional  value  and  interest 
from  the  fact  that  the  native  teachers,  the  men  and  women 
who  carry  on  the  arduous  work  of  these  stations,  are 
themselves  the  fruit  of  missionary  work  in  Polynesia. 
During  the  last  twenty-five  years  the  flower  of  Christian 


HEROISM   OF  THE  NATIVE   TEACHERS         469 


manhood  and  womanhood  in  Samoa,  Rarotonga,  the 
Loyalty  Islands,  and  other  parts  of  Polynesia  have  devoted 
themselves  to  the  great  task  of  evangelizing  New  Guinea. 
Not  a  few  have  been  murdered  ;  many  more  have  succumbed 
to  the  climate ;  many  have  spent  themselves  in  the  work. 
But  as  the  workers  have  fallen  others  have  always  pressed 
forward,  eagerly  and  willingly  to  fill  the  places  of  those 
who  have  finished  their  course.  No  episode  in  modern 
missions  is  more  thrilling  and  inspiring  than  the  story  of 
what  the  Polynesian  native  teachers  have  done  and  have 
suffered  for  New  Guinea. 

New  Guinea  has  been  fortunate  also  in  many  of  the  Euro- 
pean workers  sent  there,  but  it  is  one  of  the  most  difficult 
fields  to  work  successfully.  The  Society  has  no  reason  to 
be  ashamed  of  the  twenty-five  years  of  preparation.  It  is 
for  the  Church  at  home,  during  the  next  twenty-five  years, 
so  to  labour  and  to  pray  as  to  banish  for  ever  from  that 
great  island  the  darkness  of  savagery  and  of  ignorance  of 
the  Gospel. 


[Authorities. — Letters  and  Official  Reports;  Among  the  Cannibals  of 
New  Guinea,  by  S.  A.  Macfarlane ;  Foi'ty  Years  in  Polynesia,  by  A.  W. 
Murray;  Work  and  Adventure  in  A^eiv  Guinea^  by  James  Chalmers  and 
W.  Wyatt  Gill ;  Pioneering  in  New  Guinea ;  and  Pioneer  Life  and  Work  in 
Neiu  Guinea,  by  James  Chalmers.] 


CHAPTER   XIV 

A    century's    results    in    POLYNESIA 

It  would  be  a  fascinating  task  to  set  forth  in  detail  the 
results  in  Polynesia  of  a  century's  Christian  toil  and  self- 
sacrifice.  This  volume  deals  with  the  work  of  one  Society, 
first  in  the  field,  it  is  true  ;  yet  now  only  one  out  of  many 
co-operating  in  the  good  work.  A  complete  treatment  of 
this  subject  is,  therefore,  impossible.  But  at  the  close  of  our 
wide  survey  it  may  be  well  to  summarize  the  main  benefits 
and  blessings  which  Christianity  has  conferred  upon  these 
islands  of  the  sea. 

1.  Heathenism,  with  its  most  degrading  and  super- 
stitious observances,  has  practically  disappeared  from  every 
island  and  group  to  which  the  Gospel  has  been  carried. 
Only  those  who  have  taken  the  trouble  to  realize  what 
heathenism  meant — the  absence  of  the  very  idea  of  morality, 
cruelty,  cannibalism,  tyrannical  superstition,  the  discomfort 
of  daily  life,  an  abiding  reign  of  terror,  the  degradation  of 
women,  absolute  disregard  of  human  life — can  begin  to 
measure  the  beneficial  results  achieved  by  its  overthrow. 

2.  Wherever  the  Gospel  has  come,  civilization  has  folloived 
in  its  train.  In  Tahiti  not  a  native  would  work  regularly, 
or  admit  that  any  of  the  observances  of  civilized  life  were 
preferable  to  his  own  customs,  until  he  had  embraced  '  the 
new  doctrine.'  It  was  only  after  Christianity  had  conquered 
that  a  civilization,  even  then  very  halting  and  imperfect,  so 
much  as  began  to  establish  itself     To-day,  while  there  is 


THE  MISSIONARY  SHIPS  471 

much  capable  of  greater  improvement  in  the  way  of  com- 
fortable homes,  of  civilized  habits,  of  settled  law  and 
customs,  and  enjoyment  of  the  fruits  of  labour,  the  whole 
of  Polynesian  life  has  been  lifted  up  to  a  much  higher 
level.  That  civilization  alone  would  not  have  done  this  is 
proved  by  the  fact  that  the  universal  testimony  of  those 
competent  to  judge  is  that  one  of  the  deadliest  foes  to  true 
progress  in  the  Pacific  has  been  the  presence  and  influence 
of  unchristian  '  civilized '  men.  These  are  the  men  who 
have  attempted,  only  too  successfully,  in  spite  of  all 
legislative  enactments,  to  bring  drink  to  the  natives,  de- 
stroying them  body  and  soul  ;  these  are  the  men  who  have 
supported  all  the  kidnapping  cruelties  and  miseries ;  and 
by  these  men  native  women  all  over  the  Pacific  have  been 
encouraged  in  an  immorality  even  more  debasing  than  the 
heathenism  of  past  generations.  It  is  from  observers  of 
this  class  that  many  of  the  oft-refuted  and  oft-repeated 
slanders  upon  Christian  work  in  the  Pacific  have  proceeded. 
3.  Intercourse  between  the  islands  has  been  developed 
by  the  missionary  ships.  A  missionary  ship  first  carried 
the  Gospel  to  Polynesia.  John  Williams'  keen  eye  soon 
saw  that  only  by  missionary  ships  could  the  work  be 
successfully  maintained  and  developed.  Reference  has 
been  made  above  to  the  Haweis,  the  Endeavour,  and  the 
Messenger  of  Peace.  It  was  not  until  the  visit  of  Williams 
to  England  in  1834  that  the  supporters  of  the  Society 
recognized  the  need  for,  and  the  importance  of,  a  vessel  of 
their  own.  There  have  been  in  all  five  of  these  beneficent 
vessels. 

(i)  The  Camden,  a  vessel  of  about  200  tons,  purchased 
by  Mr.  Williams  for  ^400,  which  sailed  on  her  first 
missionary  voyage  under  Captain  Morgan  on  April  11,  1838. 
She  did  much  useful  service,  but  on  her  return  to  England 
in  1843  "^^'^s  sold. 

(2)  The  first  John  Williams,  a  vessel  given  to  the  work 
by  the  children,  who  raised  no  less  a  sum  than  ^^6,237. 
She  was  launched  on  March  20,  1844,  at  Harwich,  and 
wrecked  upon  Danger  Island  in  1864. 


472       A    CENTURY'S  RESULTS  IN  POLYNESIA 

(3)  The  second  John  WilHams,  built  in  1865,  and 
wrecked    at    Nine    during    her    first   voyage    on   Jan.    8, 

1867. 

(4)  Thethird  John  Williams,  which,  built  in  1868,  under 
the  skilful  guidance  first  of  Captain  Morgan,  and  then  of 
Captain  Turpie,  carried  on  her  most  needful  and  beneficial 
service  until  replaced,  in  1894,  by  a  steamer. 

(5)  The  fourth  John  Williams  became  a  necessity 
owing  to  the  growth  of  the  work.  The  circuit  of  the 
missionary  ship  had  by  1890  come  to  mean  a  voyage  of 
15,000  miles,  with  thirty-eight  places  of  call,  hardly  any 
promising  secure  anchorage.  For  this  great  work  a  sailing- 
vessel  had  become  inadequate.  Hence  in  1893- 1894,  ^^ 
a  cost  of  just  over  ^17,000,  the  first  steamer  owned  by  the 
Society  was  built.  She  is  so  constructed  as  to  be  able  to 
sail  whenever  there  is  a  suitable  wind,  and  she  can  carry 
coal  enough  for  a  voyage  of  9,000  miles. 

The  contrast  between  the  Messenger  of  Peace  and  the 
fourth  John  Williams,  between  the  short  and  dangerous 
run  from  Rarotonga  to  Raiatea  and  Tahiti,  and  the  15,000 
miles'  circuit  of  the  steamer  is  one  measure  of  what 
Christianity  has  done  in  Polynesia.  It  has  enlarged  the 
horizon  of  every  island ;  it  has  brought  them  into  touch 
with  the  great  world  ;  it  has  imparted  new  hopes,  new 
thoughts,  and  new  desires,  and  done  much  to  satisfy  all 
these.  The  influence  of  these  missionary  ships  has  been 
very  great.  They  have  conveyed  the  European  mission- 
aries and  the  native  pastors  to  their  respective  stations ; 
they  have  carried  students  from  dark  heathen  islands  to  the 
various  training  institutions,  and  in  due  time  sent  them 
back  trained,  each  to  become  a  centre  of  light  and  civiliza- 
tion, to  his  place  of  service.  They  have  facilitated  intercourse 
between  the  islands.  They  have  enabled  something  like 
an  adequate  superintendence  of  out-stations  to  be  main- 
tained. They  have  been  a  terror  to  evildoers,  men-stealers, 
and  the  like,  and  have  been  a  potent  force  in  restraining 
other  vessels  from  deeds  of  violence.  The  fact  that,  at 
stated  intervals,  a  Christian  ship  visits  so  many  of  the  islands 


EDUCATION  AND  LITERATURE  473 

has  in  itself  been  the  source  of  many  direct  and  indirect 
blessings  to  the  natives  of  widely  scattered  groups. 

4.  Wherever  the  Gospel  has  been  received  edtication  has 
followed.     The    chapel   and  the   school-house   stand    side 

by  side  over  the  wide  Pacific.  Christianity  has  also  en- 
deavoured to  secure  a  true  native  ministry  by  the  establish- 
ment in  every  suitable  place  of  institutions  and  colleges  for 
the  training  of  the  most  intelligent  natives. 

5.  It  is  to  missionary  efforts  that  all  So2ith  Sea  liierattire 
is  due.  So  far  as  we  know  there  is  not  a  single  case  on 
record  of  the  reduction  to  writing  of  a  Polynesian  language 
by  other  than  a  Christian  worker.  Tahiti,  Rarotonga,  Samoa, 
Niue,  Lifu,  Mare,  Uvea,  and  New  Guinea  have  all  received 
the  complete  Word  of  God,  or  the  most  important  portions 
of  it,  in  their  native  tongue  as  a  result  of  the  labours  of 
the  London  Missionary  Society.  Other  Societies  have 
also  done  noble  service  in  the  same  direction,  as  in  New 
Zealand,  Fiji,  and  the  Sandwich  Islands.  And  in  receiving 
the  Word  of  God  the  natives  receive  a  whole  literature  ; 
they  receive  what  has  already  in  some  cases  proved  the 
germ  of  a  true  native  literature  saturated  with  Gospel 
influence.  If  Christianity  rested  its  claims  merely  upon  its 
literary  achievements,  she  would  have  ample  justification 
for  all  the  expenditure  of  money  and  labour  and  life  this 
has  involved. 

6.  Polynesia  has  herself  become  the  centre  of  much 
valuable  missionary  extension  work.  Preceding  chapters 
have  borne  ample  testimony  to  the  heroic  self-sacrifice 
exhibited  by  Polynesian  Christians  from  the  Society 
Islands,  Samoa,  Rarotonga,  and  other  evangelical  islands 
in  the  New  Hebrides  and  in  New  Guinea. 

7.  Statistics  are  not  wanting  in  connection  with  Polynesian 
work,  but  they  are  not  very  reliable  evidences  of  true 
progress.  It  would  be  easy  to  show  remarkable  numbers 
as  a  proof  of  Christian  progress  ;  for  example,  in  Tahiti  in 
1818,  in  the  Sandwich  Islands  in  1838,  in  Lifu  and  Marc  in 
1864,  in  Fiji  in  1845.  But  true  growth  is  not  measured 
in   this  way.     All  through  the  century    there  have    been 


474       '-^    CENTURY'S  RESULTS  IN  POLYNESIA 

abundant  and  remarkable  instances  of  how  the  Gospel 
transforms  the  evil  heart  of  man.  Tamatoa,  chief  of  Raiatea ; 
Papeiha,  evangelist  of  Rarotonga  ;  Ruatoka,  of  New  Guinea, 
and  hosts  of  others,  are  proofs  of  this.  But  in  considering 
what  Christianity  has  done  over  so  wide  an  area  as  the 
Pacific,  and  during  so  long  a  period  as  a  century,  we  need 
a  wider  outlook  than  the  individual.  What  the  Gospel  has 
done  towards  lifting  Polynesia  in  the  scale  of  manhood  is 
the  true  test  by  which  Christianity  will  stand  or  fall.  The 
refusal  of  a  Samoan  to  take  part  in  a  tribal  war  because 
war  is  contrary  to  the  Gospel  is  a  far  more  eloquent 
testimony  to  the  power  of  the  truth  than  the  enrolment  of 
a  dozen  Samoan  names  upon  a  church  roll,  some  of  whom 
fall  away  when  war  breaks  out.  Makea,  chief  of  Rarotonga, 
vohintarily  offering  himself  for  punishment  in  the  presence 
of  all  his  people,  who  marvel  at  a  chief  submitting  to  punish- 
ment on  any  pretext,  is  a  more  powerful  evidence  of  the 
growth  of  Christian  ideas  than  the  announcement  of  the 
conversion  of  a  dozen  chieftains.  It  is  along  this  line  that 
Christian  results  are  to  be  sought.  And  hither  all  testi- 
mony converges.  One  century  cannot  absolutely  overcome 
the  inherited  tendencies  of  many  centuries  of  heathenism.  If, 
with  more  than  ten  centuries  of  Christianity  behind  them, 
the  most  civilized  nations  in  the  world  are  still  so  far  from 
the  Christian  ideal,  none  need  be  surprised  at  the  obvious 
drawbacks  and  defects  of  Polynesian  Christianity. 

But,  making  all  due  allowance  in  this  direction,  the  growth 
has  been  very  rapid.  Tahiti  in  t8io  was  wholly  heathen  ; 
to-day  she  is  among  the  semi-civilized  nations,  with  strong 
elements  of  Christian  growth  and  culture.  New  Guinea  in 
1870  was  a  terra  incognita^  wholly  in  darkness,  cruelty,  and 
savagery  of  the  worst  kind  ;  to-day  she  is  full  of  points  of 
light,  from  which  the  light  will  shine  out  ever  more  and 
more  unto  the  perfect  day.  And  what  is  true  of  the  earliest 
and  of  the  latest  Polynesian  mission  is  true,  in  more  or  less 
degree,  of  every  mission  that  has  found  a  place  between 
them. 


AFRICA 


1.  *  Ethiopia  shall  haste  to  stretch  out  her  hands  unto  God.' — Psalm  Ixviii. 
31  (K.V.). 

2.  '  The  people  that  walked  in  darkness  have  seen  a  great  light :  they  that 
dwelt  in  the  land  of  the  shadow  of  death,  upon  them  hath  the  light  shined.' — 
Isaiah  ix.  2  (R.V.). 

3.  *  Did  then  this  plan  spring  forth  only  out  of  your  own  heart  ? ' — The 
question  of  Gaika,  the  Kafir  chief,  to  Vanderkemp,  1799. 

4.  '  We  need  more  faith  in  the  Bank  of  Heaven.' — Robert  Moffat. 

5.  'To  me  those  who  never  heard  the- Gospel  are  greater  objects  of  com- 
passion than  those  who  have  heard  it  for  seven  years,  and  rejected  it.' 

'  The  end  of  the  geographical  fact  is  but  the  beginning  of  the  missionary 
enterprise.' 

'  Christianity  alone  reaches  the  very  centre  of  the  wants  of  Africa  and  of 
the  world.' — David  Livingstone. 


CHAPTER   XV 

THE    MISSION  TO   THE   FOULAHS 

Tx  the  Second  Report  of  the  Missionary  Society,  presented 
at  the  annual  meeting  in  May,  1796,  we  read  : — 

'Early  in  October  (1795)  a  memoir  was  presented  by 
one  of  our  brethren  respecting  a  mission  to  Africa,  which 
memoir  he  submitted  to  the  correction  of  Mr.  Macaulay  \ 
Governor  of  Sierra  Leone,  who  obligingly  favoured  him 
with  all  the  knowledge  he  was  then  master  of  concerning  it.' 

In  the  Evangelical  Magazine  for  December,  1896,  the 
Directors  plead  very  strongly  on  behalf  of  an  African 
mission.  'Africa,'  they  write,  'that  much-injured  country, 
has  been  visited  by  Europeans,  not  for  the  communication 
of  benefits,  but  to  carry  on  a  commerce  which  inevitably 
inflicts  on  its  inhabitants  the  wounds  of  slavery  and  death. 
The  very  mention  of  Africa  produces  in  every  breast  the 
pang  of  sympathy,  and  the  mingled  sentiments  of  pity  and 
indignation.  To  this  benighted  and  oppressed  country  we 
are  desirous  of  sending  the  Gospel  of  Christ — that  best 
relief  of  man  under  his  accumulated  miseries — that  essential 
blessing  which  outweighs  the  evils  of  the  most  suffering  life".' 
This  address  further  sets  forth  the  belief  that  Providence 
is  opening  up  South  Africa  in  such  a  way  as  to  make  it 
a  most  promising  field  of  labour ;  and  that  in  the  first 
instance  their  attention  is  directed  '  towards  the  western 
coast  of  this  vast  continent ;  and  it  is  here  where  the  guilt 
of   Europeans   has    inflicted    the    deepest   wounds   on   the 

'  Zachary  Macaulay.  '  Evangelical  Magazine,  1796,  p.  4*;4. 


478  THE  MISSION   TO   THE  FOULAHS 

unoffeiidine  nativ^es.'  The  existence  of  the  Sierra  Leone 
Company,  '  founded  on  the  purest  and  most  disinterested 
principles,'  rendered  it  possible,  they  thought,  to  send  the 
Gospel  to  the  natives  in  the  vicinity  of  that  colony. 

The  Sierra  Leone  Company  arose  out  of  various  attempts 
to  form,  between  1 786  and  1791,  a  colony  of  liberated  African 
slaves  in  that  part  of  the  West  Coast.  Known  first  as  the 
St.  George's  Bay  Company,  and  having  connected  with  it 
such  men  as  Granville  Sharp,  William  Wilberforce,  Sir 
Richard  Carr  Glynn,  and  others,  it  was  in  1791  incorporated 
by  royal  charter  into  the  Sierra  Leone  Company.  In  1807 
the  company  transferred  all  its  rights  to  the  Crown.  At 
the  time  of  the  Foulah  Mission  Zachary  Macaulay  was  the 
most  influential  person  in  the  colony. 

The  choice  of  the  Foulah  country  as  the  scene  of  this 
first  African  missionary  effort  was  due  to  a  visit  paid 
to  that  region,  lying  about  250  miles  to  the  north-east 
of  Sierra  Leone,  by  two  agents  of  the  Sierra  Leone 
Company,  Mr.  Watts  and  Mr.  Winterbotham.  Extracts 
from  their  journal  were  printed  in  the  Evangelical  Review, 
and  the  statement  which  strongly  moved  the  mind  of  the 
Directors  at  this  time  was  to  the  effect  that  the  King  of 
the  Foulah  country  would  welcome  Europeans  as  residents. 

Acting  upon  the  information  derived  from  this  journal, 
supplemented,  as  it  was,  by  Mr.  Dawes,  the  late  governor 
of  the  Sierra  Leone  Company,  and  the  Rev.  Melville  Home, 
who  had  filled  the  post  of  chaplain  there,  the  Directors  at 
once  attempted  to  secure  volunteers  for  this  service.  Their 
address  describes  the  kind  of  men  required.  They  were  to 
be  '  Christians,  w^ell  instructed  in  the  principles  of  Divine 
truth,  possessing  a  supreme  love  to  the  Saviour  of  sinners, 
and  a  fer\^ent  zeal  for  His  honour  in  the  world,  to  promote 
which  they  are  not  unwilling  to  endure  the  hardships  of 
life  or  meet  the  conflict  of  death.  Serious  and  zealous 
Christians,  acquainted  with  husbandry  and  other  useful 
occupations,  appear  best  suited  for  this  occasion.'  One 
'  person  of  education,'  and  one  '  acquainted  with  surgery 
and  the  medical  science,'  should  accompany  them. 


SIX  MISSIONARIES  APPOINTED  479 

In  the  early  part  of  1  797  correspondence  took  place  with 
both  the  Edinburgh  and  Glasgow  Missionary  Societies, 
and  it  was  finally  settled  that  the  expedition  should  con- 
sist of  six  persons,  two  from  each  Society.  The  persons 
selected  for  this  service  were  the  Rev.  Peter  Ferguson  and 
Mr.  Robert  Graham  by  the  Glasgow  Society;  the  Rev. 
Henry  Brunton  and  Mr.  Peter  Greig  by  the  Edinburgh 
Society;  and  Mr.  Alexander  Russell  and  Mr.  George 
Cappe  by  the  London  Society.  They  were  to  co-operate, 
but  each  Society  was  to  be  responsible  only  for  the  men  it 
sent  out.  All  were  under  forty  years  of  age,  Mr.  Brunton 
alone  being  married,  and  his  wife  and  two  children  were 
left  with  friends  in  Scotland. 

On  October  12,  1797.  the  six  missionaries  journeyed  to 
Gravesend,  and  on  October  16  the  Calypso,  a  vessel  of 
1 70  tons,  belonging  to  the  Sierra  Leone  Company,  sailed. 
Mr.  Brunton  and  Mr.  Ferguson  during  their  stay  at  Graves- 
end  had  conducted  several  services,  and  had  given  '  the 
most  pleasant  evidence  of  their  piety  and  gifts.'  But 
a  discourse  delivered  there  by  the  former  was  destined  to 
produce  disastrous  results,  as  it  led  to  serious  theological 
contention  among  the  missionaries.  This  was  known 
before  the  vessel  sailed,  and  so  serious  was  it  deemed  that 
three  Directors  were  appointed  to  visit  the  Calypso  at 
Falmouth,  and  to  do  what  they  could  to  compose  it.  But 
the  vessel  did  not  put  in  at  that  port,  and  the  difference 
appears  to  have  grown  in  bitterness  throughout  the  voyage. 

The  letter  of  instructions  sent  with  the  missionaries 
indicated  the  Foulah  country  as  their  sphere  of  work,  but 
informed  them  that  so  long  as  war  or  other  circum- 
stances prevented  them  from  reaching  that  region,  they 
were  to  be  under  the  guidance  of,  and  act  in  consultation 
with,  Governor  Macaulay  and  Mr.  Clark,  the  chaplain  at 
Sierra  Leone. 

Upon  the  arrival  of  the  Calypso  at  Freetown  in  December, 
1797,  Governor  Macaulay  exerted  himself  to  settle  the 
dispute  which  had  embittered  the  voyage,  and  as  the 
P'oulah    country    was    still    inaccessible    through    war,    he 


48o  THE  MISSION  TO   THE  FOULAHS 

placed  Brunton  and  Greig  at  Freeport  Factory,  on  the 
Rio  Pongcs,  about  sixty  miles  from  Freetown  ;  Ferguson 
and  Graham  on  the  Bananas,  three  small  islands  forty 
miles  from  Freetown  and  about  four  miles  from  the  coast  ; 
and  Russell  and  Cappe  on  the  Bullam  shore. 

The  mission  at  once  began  to  feel  the  effects  of  two 
factors  which  have  exerted  a  powerful  influence  over 
every  effort  to  evangelize  that  dark  land — the  quality  of 
the  workers,  and  the  deadly  nature  of  the  climate.  Within 
half  a  year  three  of  the  six  missionaries  were  dead,  a  fourth 
had  to  be  recalled,  and  the  other  two  were  able  to  pursue 
their  labour  for  only  a  brief  period.  Mr.  Brunton  succeeded 
Mr.  Clark,  upon  the  death  of  the  latter,  as  chaplain  of 
Sierra  Leone^,  and  Mr.  Greig  continued  to  work  at  Freeport 
Factory.  As  the  latter  were  agents  of  the  Edinburgh 
Society,  no  reference  to  them  appears  in  the  records  of  the 
Society  after  the  Report  of  1800.  The  career  of  the  two 
belonging  to  the  London  Society  was  very  brief.  Alexander 
Russell  died  at  Freetown,  July  16,  1798  ;  and  George  Cappe 
proved  so  unsuitable  to  the  work,  and  so  unamenable  to  dis- 
cipline, that  his  connection  with  the  Society  was  terminated 
on  August  31,  1798. 

In  this  speedy  and  disastrous  fashion  the  first  mission 
attempted  in  Africa  by  the  Society,  and  the  only  one  as  yet 
undertaken  by  them  on  the  West  Coast,  came  to  an  end. 


CHAPTER    XVI 

VANDERKEMP   AND   THE   MISSION   TO   THE    KAFIRS 

A  GREAT  man  is  the  prime  requisite  and  the  sustaining 
force  in  every  great  enterprise.  It  was  a  happy  day  for 
South  Africa  when,  in  the  good  providence  of  God, 
Dr.  Vanderkemp  was  led  to  open  up  correspondence  with 
the  London  Missionary  Society.  What  Nott  was  to 
Tahiti,  what  Morrison  became  to  China,  Vanderkemp  was 
to  the  suffering  and  perishing  millions  of  South  Africa. 

From  their  earliest  meetings  the  Directors  kept  the  Cape 
of  Good  Hope  in  view  as  a  most  desirable  and  promising 
field  of  missionary  labour.  In  the  last  year  of  the  eighteenth 
century  they  were  enabled  to  make  good  a  foothold  upon 
this  Land  of  Promise.  From  that  day  to  the  present  the 
Society's  wise  labours,  and  the  self-denying  and  noble 
efforts  of  their  missionaries,  have  led  to  an  ever-widening 
and  more  fruitful  extension  of  Christian  influence. 

In    the    Minute-book    for   April    24,    1797,    stands   this 
entry: — 

'A  letter  was  read  from  Mr,  J.  T.  Vanderkemp  at 
Dordrecht  in  Holland,  addressed  to  the  Secretary. 
Mr.  Vanderkemp  offers  himself  to  the  Society  as  a  mis- 
sionary, and  proposes  to  translate  any  pieces  the  Directors 
may  send  to  him,  on  purpose  to  rouse  the  languid  spirit 
of  his  countrymen,  and  to  promote  the  designs  of  this 
institution.  Mr.  Love  was  desired  to  answer  this  in  the 
most  respectful  manner,  to  acquaint  Mr.  Vanderkemp  that 
it  is  referred  to  the  serious  consideration  of  the  Directors, 
and  to  transmit  to  him  such  Reports  of  the  proceedings  of 

I.  I  i 


482  THE  MISSION   TO   THE  KAFIRS 

the   Society  as   may  be  proper  to  be  translated  into  the 
Dutch  language  for  general  utility.' 

Johannes  Theodosius  Vanderkemp,  to  give  him  his  full 
name,  was  the  son  of  a  Dutch  minister  of  the  Lutheran 
Church,  and  was  born  at  Rotterdam  in  1748.  He  was, 
therefore,  nearly  fifty  A^ears  old  when  he  penned  the  letter 
referred  to  above.  His  thoughts  had  been  attracted  to  the 
work  of  the  Society  by  reading  an  address  w^hich  the 
Directors  had  prepared  specially  for  Germany,  and  circu- 
lated in  that  country.  A  copy  of  this  was  placed  in 
Vanderkemp's  hands  by  a  Moravian  brother  from  Herrn- 
hut.  A  reference  in  this  address  to  the  sermons  preached 
at  the  foundation  of  the  Society  led  him  to  procure  a  copy 
of  these,  and  to  contemplate  the  issue  of  a  translation  of 
them  into  Dutch.  He  was  very  powerfully  moved  by  the 
closing  passage  of  Rowland  Hill's  discourse,  preached  in 
Surrey  Chapel  on  the  morning  of  September  24,  1795. 
The  effect  which  these  words  had  upon  him  he  himself  has 
recorded  in  a  letter  to  the  Directors : — 

'  I  fell  on  my  knees,  and  cried,  "  Here  I  am,  Lord  Jesus  ; 
Thou  knowest  I  have  no  will  of  my  own,  since  I  gave 
myself  up  unto  Thee,  to  be  spent  in  Thy  service,  accord- 
ing to  Thy  pleasure  ;  prevent  me  only  from  doing  any- 
thing in  this  great  work  in  a  carnal  and  self-sufficient 
spirit,  and  lead  me  in  the  right  way,  if  there  be  any  way 
of  wickedness  in  me."  I  felt  my  heart  immediately  directed 
to  communicate  to  you  the  ideas  which  presented  them- 
selves to  my  mind,  and  took  up  my  pen  for  that  purpose. 
Allow  me  to  say  I  am  in  a  strait  betwixt  two,  having 
a  desire  to  be  sent,  if  it  be  the  will  of  God,  by  your  means 
to  the  heathen  ;  or  to  abide  in  this  country,  endeavouring 
to  serve  my  Lord,  in  stirring  up  the  too  languid  zeal  of  my 
countrymen  to  imitate  your  example  in  word  and  deed  ^.' 

Later  in  the   same  letter  he  thus  sketches  his  life  and 
experience  : — 

'As  I  am,  sir,  entirely  unknown  to  you,  I  think  I  ought 
to  give  you  a  short  account  of  my  circumstances.     I  am 

yy  ansae  lions  of  the  Missionary  Society,  i.  pp.  351-353. 


VANDERKEMP'S   OEEER   OF  SERVICE  483 

near  fifty  years  of  age,  born  at  Rotterdam,  a  member  of 
the  established  religion  of  the  country,  of  tolerable  health. 
I  first  studied  physic  at  Leyden,  but  afterwards  entered 
into  the  army,  where  I  served  sixteen  years,  and  rose  to 
the  rank  of  Captain  of  Horse  and  Lieutenant  of  the  Dragoon 
Guards,  living  a  slave  to  vice  and  ungodliness.  Marriage, 
however,  put  an  end  to  scandalous  irregularities,  and 
brought  on  some  external  reformation.  I  then  left  the 
service,  and  went  over  to  Edinburgh,  where,  after  two  years' 
study,  I  took  my  degree,  having,  during  my  stay,  composed 
a  Latin  work  on  Cosmology,  entitled  Pa7'7nenides.  On  my 
return  home,  I  practised  physic  in  Zealand,  where  I  became 
publicly  a  Deist,  blaspheming  the  name  of  Christ,  under 
the  full  conviction  that  I  pleased  God.  Ten  years  after. 
I  lost  my  dear  wife  and  only  child  at  the  same  moment, 
and  was  myself,  as  by  a  miracle,  rescued  from  the  jaws  of 
death.  Six  days  after  this  terrible  event,  the  Lord  re- 
vealed Himself  to  me,  since  which  time  I  am  His  bounden 
servant,  devoted  to  the  will  of  my  master  and  conqueror. 
Some  of  the  clergy  advised  me  to  enter  into  holy  orders  ■. 
but  though  I  was  desirous  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  Christ, 
I  was  persuaded  it  was  not  His  will  in  this  way.  He  soon 
after  sent  me  to  the  army,  in  quality  of  Director  and 
Superintendent  of  an  Hospital,  near  Rotterdam,  where 
I  served  till  the  revolution.  I  then  thought  it  my  duty 
to  quit  the  service.  At  present  I  am  retired  from  all 
business,  employing  my  time  in  oriental  literature,  and  in 
finishing  a  commentary  on  St.  Paul's  Epistle  to  the 
Romans,  which  I  commenced  before  I  went  to  the  Dutch 
camp,  and  wish  to  leave  behind  me  as  a  testimony  of  my 
conviction  of  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus.  And  now  offering 
myself  on  His  service,  I  humbly  and  earnestly  request  to 
be  favoured  with  your  correspondence  and  advice.' 

As  a  result  of  further  correspondence  with  the  Directors 
Dr.  Vanderkemp  came  over  to  London,  where  he  spent 
several  months  in  close  intercourse  with  the  friends  and 
chief  men  of  the  Society.  He  seemed  to  them  as  clearly 
designated  by  Divine  Providence  to  superintend  the  South 

I  i  2 


484  THE  MISSION  TO    THE  KAFIRS 

African  Mission  as  Captain  Wilson  had  been  to  command 
the  Duff.  Returning  to  Holland  towards  the  close  of 
1797  to  make  the  needful  arrangements  for  his  great 
enterprise,  Vanderkemp  carried  with  him  an  address  from 
the  Directors  which  was  very  widely  circulated  in  Dutch. 
This  led  immediately  to  the  formation  at  Rotterdam  of 
the  Netherlands  Missionary  Society,  which  for  a  number 
of  years  cordially  co-operated  with,  and  aided  the  work  of 
the  London  Society.  A  similar  organization  was  started 
in  East  Friesland. 

The  information  about  the  work  of  the  London  Society 
circulated  in  Holland  had  also  attracted  the  attention  of 
a  young  man  named  John  Kicherer.  He  offered  himself 
to  the  Society,  and  was  accepted  by  them.  Two  English- 
men, John  Edmonds  and  William  Edwards,  were  also 
accepted.  About  this  time  Vanderkemp  returned  to 
London  and  was  ordained  at  Crown  Court,  November  3, 
1797.  His  interest  and  sympathy  had  by  this  time  centred 
upon  a  mission  to  the  Kafirs.  Much  time  and  trouble 
were  consumed  before  suitable  arrangements  could  be 
made  for  the  conveyance  of  Dr.  Vanderkemp  and  his 
colleagues  to  their  field  of  labour.  Finally  a  passage 
was  secured  for  them  in  the  convict  ship  Hillsborough, 
bound  for  Botany  Bay,  but  timed  to  touch  at  the 
Cape  on  her  outward  voyage.  She  sailed  from  Spithead 
on  December  23,  1798,  in  company  with  the  Duff,  then 
commencing  her  disastrous  second  voyage,  and  conveyed 
Vanderkemp,  Kicherer,  Edwards,  and  Edmonds.  Convict 
ships  have  long  been  things  of  the  past,  and  our  mission- 
aries are  now  rapidly  and  comfortably  carried  to  almost 
every  part  of  the  globe  by  the  magnificent  steamships  of 
modern  commerce.  It  will  aid  the  reader  to  appreciate 
the  risks  and  toils  and  hardships  of  the  pioneer  workers 
if  we  give  .some  extracts  from  Vanderkemp's  journal  of 
the  voyage.  It  was  a  time  of  war ;  the  sea  was  unsafe 
for  any  but  armed  vessels,  the  press-gang  was  in  full  swing, 
the  comforts  of  even  the  cabin  passenger  were  not  greatly 
in  excess  of  those  enjoyed  in  the  steerage  of  to-day. 


A    CONVICT  SHIP  IN  1798  485 

*  On   the  arrival  of  the  Hillsborough  with  the  convicts, 
the  missionaries  went  on  board,  and  before  they  left  the 
harbour  had  a  specimen  of  the  spirit  of  their  companions, 
and  a  proof  of  the  divine  impression  their  attentions  and 
labours  immediately  began  to  make  on  this  forlorn  hope  of 
society.     It  being  suspected  that  some  deserters  from  the 
men  of  war  had  taken  refuge  among  the  convicts  in  the 
orlop,  a  boat  with  naval  officers  came  on  board  to  search 
for  the  seamen,  suspected  to  be  concealed    in  the  hold  : 
but  no  sooner  had  the  officer,  with  his  gang,  attempted  to 
pass  the  entrance  of  the  orlop,  than  the  convicts  seized  him. 
snatched  from    him   his  dagger,   and  wounded   him,  with 
imminent  danger  of  his  life  ;  he  cried  out  for  mercy,  and 
was   released  with  the  loss  of  his  hat,  the  sheath  of  his 
dagger,  and  the  rending  his  clothes,  and  counted  himself 
fortunate    in  not   being  murdered  by  them.     Apprised  of 
this  brutal  conduct,  the  captain  desired  Dr.  Vanderkemp 
and  the  missionaries  to  beware  how  they  entered  the  orlop, 
as  they  would,  he  apprehended,  be  hustled  and  robbed,  if 
not  more  injuriously  treated  ;  but  they  descended  without 
fear,  took  with  them  some  Bibles  and  books  to  distribute, 
and    making   known    their  kind    intentions    in   coming  on 
board,  they  were  received  with  reverence,  and  heard  with 
attention,  from   the  first    moment   to  the   last.     A   cutter 
with  officers,  and  a  detachment  of  marines,  having  come 
on  board   two  days   after,  with   a  determined    purpose  to 
search  the   hold,  found   the  convicts  so  exasperated  and 
determined,  that  to  prevent  much  bloodshed  they  desisted 
and  departed.     At  this  very  time  of  confusion  and  despera- 
tion Dr.  Vanderkemp  and  his  brethren  continued  to  visit 
in  their  dark  and  dismal  abode,  to  sit  and  converse  with 
them  freely,  and  soothe  their  turbulent  spirits  to  submission 
to  their  fate,  as  such  rebellious  conduct  could  only  exas- 
perate ;    but  many  of  the  refractory  planned  a  scheme  of 
sawing   off  their  irons,  and    seizing   the  vessel  ;    this   was 
discovered  and  punished.     A  second  scheme  was  to  bore 
holes  in  the  v^essel  and  sink  her,  in  hope  of  being  able  to 
escape    in    the    boats ,    but   the   salutary  influence   of  tlu- 


486  THE  MISSION   TO    THE  KAFIRS 

missionaries  soon  began  to  be  apparent.  Their  constant 
attendance  upon,  and  attention  to  their  spiritual  concerns, 
began  to  make  impressions  of  a  pleasing  kind  on  a  few, 
and  their  desire  to  alleviate  their  misery,  their  friendly 
intercession  with  the  captain,  on  a  variety  of  occasions,  to 
alleviate  or  abridge  their  punishment,  or  grant  them  some 
proper  indulgence,  so  won  upon  the  whole  body,  that  these 
Hons  behaved  to  the  missionaries  with  the  gentleness 
of  lambs,  heard  their  admonitions  with  respect,  their 
warnings  with  seriousness,  and  their  consolations  with 
thankfulness. 

*  But  our  brethren  were  to  be  called  not  merely  to  the 
activity  of  preaching  and  teaching  daily,  but  to  the  more 
painful  and  dangerous  employment  of  visiting  the  hospital, 
and  attending  the  dying  beds  of  those  who  now  were  solely 
afflicted  with  a  putrid  and  pestilential  fever,  a  misery  which 
hardly  any  convict  ship  escapes  ;  and  seems  difficultly  to 
be  avoided,  considering  the  persons  who  come  on  board 
from  jails  and  hulks,  and  the  place  where  they  are  confined 
in  irons  ;  the  dreary  darkness  of  which,  the  closeness,  the 
heat,  and  putrid  effluvia,  are  inconceivable  to  those  who 
have  not  visited  these  abodes  of  wretchedness,  and,  with 
the  clank  of  the  chains,  affords  the  strongest  idea  of  Hell, 
and  of  the  damned,  which  can  be  conceived.  Disease  now 
advanced  with  rapid  strides,  and  death  began  to  make 
havoc  among  the  convicts.  Our  intrepid  brethren  inter- 
mitted none  of  their  friendly  offices,  but  visited  the  hospital, 
and  stood  over  the  beds  of  the  dying,  exposed  to  all  the 
danger  of  so  dreadfully  infectious  a  situation,  and  earnestly 
employed  in  endeavouring  to  pluck  those  brands  from  the 
burning.  Thirty-four  died  on  their  passage  to  the  Cape, 
from  whence  may  be  drawn  a  certain  conclusion  how 
crowded  mu.st  be  the  hospital;  indeed,  the  whole  orlop 
might  be  nearly  considered  as  such;  the  sickening,  the 
dying,  and  the  convalescent  afforded  each  peculiar  calls  for 
their  attention  \' 

It  was  not  until  March   3T,  1799,  ttat  the   Hillsborough 

'    Transactions,  i.  pp.  360-362. 


VANDERKEMP  AND   HENRY  MARTYN  487 

dropped  anchor  in  Table  Bay.  It  was  a  period  of  trouble 
and  war  and  change  for  Cape  Colony  as  well  as  for  so 
many  other  parts  of  the  world.  Since  April  9,  1652..  the 
Cape  had  been  under  the  control  of  the  Dutch.  In  1795 
it  was  seized  by  Great  Britain,  and  ruled  successively  by 
General  Craig,  the  Earl  of  Macartney,  Sir  George  Young, 
and  Sir  Francis  Dundas.  In  1803,  by  the  Treaty  of 
Amiens,  it  was  restored  to  Holland  ;  but  in  1806,  after  the 
battle  of  Blaauwberg,  on  January  8,  in  which  the  Dutch 
were  defeated  by  the  English  under  Sir  David  Baird.  it  was 
again  surrendered  to  Great  Britain,  and  has  remained  an 
English  colony  ever  since.  Watching  the  battle  of  1806 
from  one  of  the  ships  of  war  in  the  Bay,  was  Henry  Marty n, 
then  on  his  way  to  India.  '  I  could  find  it.'  he  writes  in  his 
journal,  '  more  agreeable  to  my  own  feelings  to  go  and 
weep  with  the  relatives  of  the  men  whom  the  English 
have  killed,  than  to  rejoice  at  the  laurels  they  have  won, 
I  had  a  happy  season  in  prayer.  No  outward  scene 
seemed  to  have  the  power  to  distract  my  thoughts. 
I  prayed  that  the  capture  of  the  Cape  might  be  ordered 
to  the  advancement  of  Chri.st's  kingdom  ;  and  that  England, 
while  she  sent  the  thunder  of  her  arms  to  the  distant 
regions  of  the  globe,  might  not  remain  proud  and  ungodly 
at  home  ;  but  might  show  herself  great  indeed,  by  sending 
forth  the  ministers  of  her  church  to  diffuse  the  Gospel  of 
peace  ^' 

Martyn  knew  that  Vanderkemp  was  at  work  in  the 
direction  of  his  prayers.  He  and  his  colleague  Read  had 
been  driven  into  Cape  Town  at  that  time  by  the  Boers. 
During  the  five  weeks  of  his  stay  Martyn  saw  much  of  the 
old  missionary,  and  when  he  sailed  he  wrote :  *  Dear 
Dr.  Vanderkemp  gave  me  a  Syriac  Testament  as  a  remem- 
brance of  him.'  In  this  way  two  great  lives  touched  for 
a  moment  in  passing.  Vanderkemp,  laying  broadly  and 
well  the  foundation  of  Christian  work  in  Africa,  speeds  on 
his  way  Henry  Martyn,  who,  little  as  he  dreamed  it  then, 
was  to  live  those  few  years  of  heroic  service  in  India  and 

'  Henry  Martyn:  Sainl  and  Scholar,  by  George  Smilh,  [>.  1J5. 


488  THE  MISSION  TO   THE  KAFIRS 

Persia,  and  become  one  of  the  most  inspiring  influences  of 
modern  missionary  effort. 

The  purpose  upon  which  Dr.  Vanderkemp  had  set  his 
heart  was  the  evangeh'zation  of  the  Kafirs,  tribes  which 
could  be  reached  only  by  a  long  and  toilsome  journey  from 
Cape  Town,  reported  to  be  fierce  and  cruel  in  character 
and  intractable  by  nature.  He  and  his  colleagues  were 
well  received  in  the  Colony.  The  governor,  General  Dundas, 
and  other  officials  lent  him  and  his  colleagues  their  favour. 
The  Christian  people  resident  there  cordially  welcomed 
them.  An  official  letter  from  the  Directors,  addressed  to 
all  Christians,  was  publicly  read  from  the  pulpits,  and  very 
shortly  after  their  landing  the  South  African  Society  for 
the  Spread  of  Christ's  Kingdom  was  formed.  All  things 
promised  well  for  the  new  effort. 

Before  the  needful  preparations  for  the  wagon  journey 
were  completed  the  claims  of  other  regions  upon  the  work 
and   evangelistic   energy   of  the    little    company  were    so 
powerfully  forced   upon  their  attention   that  a  division  of 
labour  took  place.     There  happened  at  this  time  to  be  in 
Cape  Town  two  chieftains  from  the  Bosjesmen,  Boschemen, 
or  Bushmen,  named  Vigilant  and  Slaporm,  and  one  from 
the  tribe  of  the   Corannas,   named   Orclam.     These   men 
expressed   a  most   earnest  desire  to  be  instructed  in  the 
things  of  God,  and  to  cease  from  the  acts  of  crime  and 
violence  common  to  their  tribes.    After  much  consideration 
Kicherer  and  Edwards  were  set  apart  to  go  with  them,  and 
endeavour  to  establish  a  mission  among  their  people.     The 
Moravians   had   at   this   time  a   missionary  settlement  at 
Bavian's    Kloof,    nearly    loo    miles    east    of   Cape    Town. 
Hearing  of  Vanderkemp's  intention  they  sent  him  a  Hotten- 
tot elephant-hunter  named   Bruntjie  to  act  as  interpreter 
and    guide.      The   country   occupied    by   the    Kafirs    lay 
beyond  the  'Great  Fish  River,  which  at  that  date  formed 
the  eastern  boundary  of  the  Colony.     Vanderkemp  started 
on    May    29,    1799.     The   first   part   of  the   journey  lay 
through  Rodczand  and   the  district  watered   by  the  Hex 
River.     Here  farms  were  not  unfrcquent,  and  they  received 


VANDERKEMP  ENTERS  KAFIRLAND  489 

help  and  hospitality  from  the  settlers  whose  farms  they 
passed.  Crossing  the  Hex  Mountains,  they  traversed  the 
Great  Karroo,  and  then  continuing  eastward  they  reached 
Graaff  Reinet  on  June  29,  just  one  month  after  leaving 
Cape  Town. 

After  resting  here  for  a  fortnight  the  start  for  Kafirland 
was  made  on  July  10.  The  region  was  in  a  very  unsettled 
state.  The  few  settlers  and  their  Hottentots  were  at  war 
with  the  Kafirs.  At  the  end  of  six  wrecks,  Vanderkcmp 
and  his  party  returned  to  the  house  of  a  colonist,  named 
John  Vanderwaldt,  there  to  wait  for  a  more  promising 
opportunity  to  reach  the  Kafir  chieftain,  Gaika.  On 
August  28,  1799,  Vanderkemp  decided  to  renew  his  effort 
to  establish  himself  in  Kafirland.  Peace  had  just  been 
concluded  between  Gaika  and  the  colonists.  A  few  extracts 
from  his  journal  illustrate  Vanderkemp's  character,  and  the 
difficulties  of  the  task  he  had  undertaken  ^ : — 

Atigtist  27.  '  Piet  Prinslo  arrived  with  an  extract  out  of 
the  resolutions  of  the  Landdrost^  and  Heemraaden^,  by 
which  they  consented  to  the  proposals  of  peace  concluded 
with  Gika,  under  approbation  of  General  Vandeleur. 
I  thought  this  was  the  time  which  we  ought  to  embrace, 
in  order  to  try  a  second  time  to  enter  into  Caffraria. 
Brother  Edmond^  was  of  a  contrary  opinion,  being  afraid 
that  we  provoked  God,  who  had  once  delivered  us  from 
death,  by  pushing  forward  into  new  dangers.  He  sub- 
mitted, however,  to  accompany  me,  as  he  saw  no  means  of 
going  back  into  the  Colony.' 

September  2.  '  I  communicated  my  plan  to  Bruntjie,  who 
disapproved  of  it.  He  said  that  the  Caffrees,  seeing  our 
musquetSjhad  observed  that  these  (pointing  to  the  bayonets) 

^  This  journal  is  printed  in  vol.  i  of  the  Transactions. 

'  An  official  who  collected  the  revenue,  and  managed  the  Dutch  East  India 
Company's  affairs  locally. 

^  A  local  council,  consisting  of  eight  burghers,  equivalent  to  a  Ix)cal  Board 
or  County  Council.  It  had  power  to  compel  settlers  to  supply  wagons,  slaves, 
labour,  &c.,  for  the  public  service. 

*  In  the  official  records  this  name  is  spelt  Edmonds.  In  the  quotations  it  i> 
usually  Edmond. 


490  THE  MISSION  TO   THE  KAFIRS 

were  the  very  English  instruments  by  which  their  country- 
men were  treacherously  murdered  ;  that  they  looked  upon 
us  as  sent  to  betray  them,  and  certainly  would  kill  us  at 
the  first  recommencement  of  the  war.  Satan  pressed  me 
very  hard  ;  but  the  more  the  difficulties  and  dangers  were 
mentioned,  the  more  I  was  excited  in  my  mind  to  go 
forward,  and  found  my  faith  increased.  I  prayed  to  ex- 
perience the  same  favour,  which  I  had  once  so  remarkably 
enjoyed  at  Amsterdam,  in  1798,  and  I  found  my  mind 
easy,  and  at  rest  in  the  Lord.' 

September  17.  'We  passed  the  Kat  River,  and  five -or 
six  lesser  streams,  with  much  labour  and  difficulty,  being 
obliged  to  cut  our  way  through  woods  and  stones.  At 
noon  we  saw  plenty  of  cattle  on  the  mountains.  This 
was  the  first  mark  of  habitation  we  saw  since  the  8th,  when 
we  left  Krieger's  farm.  Soon  after,  we  heard  the  barking 
of  dogs,  and  arrived  at  a  kraal  of  Caffrees.  These  people 
gazed  at  us,  and  begged  many  things.' 

September  20.  'After  we  had  cut  a  way  through  the 
wood,  and  filled  up  the  river,  we  went  on,  and  arrived  at 
Gika's  cattle  kraals,  then  the  place  of  his  residence,  near 
the  river  T'Chommi,  which  discharges  itself  into  the 
T'Keiskamma.  About  a  hundred  Caffrees  flocked  to- 
gether, and  w^e  inquired  for  King  Gika ;  but  nobody 
answered.  After  we  had  waited  for  about  ten  minutes 
in  suspense,  the  king  approached  in  a  majestic  and  solemn 
attitude,  advancing  slowly,  attended  on  each  side  by  one 
of  his  chief  men.  He  was  covered  with  a  long  robe  of 
panthers'  skins,  and  wore  a  diadem  of  copper,  and  another 
of  beads  round  his  head.  He  had  in  his  hand  an  iron 
kiri,  and  his  cheeks  and  lips  were  painted  red.  He  stopped 
about  twenty  paces  from  us,  and  one  of  his  captains  then 
signified  that  it  was  the  king.  We  then  stepped  towards 
him,  and  he  at  the  same  time  marched  forward  He 
reached  us  his  right  hand ;  but  spoke  not  a  word.  I  then 
delivered  him  his  tobacco-box,  which  we  had  filled  with 
buttons.  He  accepted  it,  and  gave  it  to  one  of  his  atten- 
dants.    At  a  distance  behind   him  stood   his  captains  and 


VANDERKEMP  MEETS   GAIKA  491 

women,  in  the  form  of  a  half-moon ;  and  at  a  great  dis- 
tance the  rest  of  the  people.  During  all  this  time  he 
moved  not  an  eyelid,  nor  changed  the  least  feature  in  his 
countenance.' 

By  means  of  a  Boer  named  Conrad  Buys,  who  soon 
came  on  the  scene,  Vanderkemp  was  able  to  explain  to 
Gaika  the  reason  of  his  coming.  The  chief's  reply  was  that 
since  there  had  been  war  so  recently  he  could  not  rightly 
entertain  visitors,  and  for  some  time  it  was  doubtful  how 
the  verdict  would  go.  At  a  second  interview  the  next 
day  •  many  questions  were  put  concerning  our  plan, 
political  connections,  and  if  we  were  not  sent  over  by  the 
English.  To  this  I  answered  in  the  negative ;  but  said, 
that  we  had  found  favour  from  every  government  with 
which  we  had  to  do  ;  that  the  English  governor  had  per- 
mitted us  to  go  to  and  fro  the  colony,  and  had  given  us 
a  passport  and  a  letter  to  General  Vandeleur,  not  to  hinder 
us  ;  forgetting  thus  to  mention  our  great  Master,  by  whom 
we  were  sent.  "  Did  then,"  continued  he, "  this  plan  spring 
forth  only  out  of  your  own  heart  ?  "  This  very  question 
upbraided  me  of  my  unfaithfulness,  and  put  this  answer 
into  my  mouth  :  that  this  my  plan  was  indeed  formed  only 
in  my  own  heart,  though  it  never  was  formed  by  it  ;  but 
that  the  God  of  heaven  and  earth,  in  whose  hand  were 
their  hearts,  and  my  heart,  had  put  into  it  to  go  to  this 
people,  and  to  communicate  in  His  name  things  with  which 
their  temporal  and  eternal  happiness  was  connected.  Thus 
it  pleased  my  Lord  to  put,  by  their  question,  the  proper 
answer  into  my  mouth.  They  then  retired,  seemingly 
well  satisfied.' 

October  3.  '  Our  Hottentot,  W.  Bruntjie,  pressed  me 
very  hard  to  return  to  the  Colony  till  a  more  favourable 
period  should  give  me  admittance.  The  uneasiness  of 
Brother  Edmond,  who  wished  to  prosecute  his  plan,  and 
to  go  to  Bengal,  teazed  me  also  :  and  I  myself  was  almost 
exhausted  ;  but  I  looked  up  to  God,  praying  that  He 
would  rule  and  keep  my  heart  quiet,  as  I  relied  upon  Him.' 

Gaika  finally  gave  his  consent  to  Vanderkemp's  proposal, 


492  THE  MISSION  TO   THE  KAFIRS 

and  indicated  a  place  where  he  could  stay  for  the  present. 
But  his  troubles  were  not  yet  at  an  end.  Edmonds  wished 
to  get  away  and  go  to  India.  Governor  Dundas  came  to 
Graafif  Reinet  and  asked  Vanderkemp  to  return  thither. 
He  feared  that  the  missionary's  life  was  not  safe.  On 
December  29  Edmonds  departed. 

January  i,  1800.  'To  see  my  brother  Edmond  depart- 
ing from  me  was  a  very  trying  circumstance ;  but  the  Lord 
supported  me.  He  returns  to  the  Cape  with  a  view  to 
proceed  to  Bengal,  in  the  fullest  confidence  that  the  Lord 
has  called  him  to  labour  in  that  country.  Before  he  left 
me^  we  went  over  the  river  into  a  wood,  and  there  we 
wrestled  in  prayer  once  more,  which  was  often  interrupted 
by  our  tears.  After  I  had  recommended  him  to  the  grace  of 
the  Lord,  I  gave  him  my  last  blessing,  and  he  took  a  final 
leave  of  me.  I  went  upon  a  hill,  and  followed  his  wagon  for 
about  half  an  hour  with  my  eyes,  when,  it  sinking  behind 
the  mountains,  I  lost  sight  of  him,  to  see  him  no  more.' 

Febi'uary  3.  'This  day  my  house  was  finished.  Four 
Hottentot  women  and  children,  and  Thomas  the  deserter, 
attended  our  missionary  prayer.' 

April  5.  *  Mr.  Buys  and  his  associates,  being  informed 
that  the  Caffrees  intended  to  kill  us,  were  in  great  terror  ; 
but  I  found  that  God  comforted  me  in  a  remarkable 
manner.  I  viewed  Jesus  to  be  the  King  of  the  Heathen, 
who  were  not  able  to  touch  me  without  His  will ;  in  which 
I  was  enabled  to  acquiesce  by  His  grace  ;  and  I  slept  this 
night  in  the  arms  of  His  love,  in  peace  and  safety;  while 
they  spent  it  in  great  fear  and  trouble.' 

April  2j.  '  Gika  went  back,  and  this  morning  and  after- 
noon came  again  to  school  with  the  children.  In  the  even- 
ing, he  told  us  that  his  will  was,  that  we  should  break  up, 
and  settle  ourselves  near  the  Debe.' 

April  2J.  'We  broke  up  in  the  morning,  and  left 
Tabakwa  Hoho  with  two  wagons,  and  the  cart  of 
Mr.  Buys.  In  the  afternoon  we  reached  the  mountain 
Khandoda,  and  there  we  slept  in  the  open  field.' 

August  17.     '  The  king  came  to  me,  asking  what  law  he 


VANDERKEMP  LEAVES  KAFIRLAND  493 

must  follow  to  obtain  rain  for  his  country  ?  I  said,  that 
God  had  sufficient  reasons  to  keep  His  rain  back  from 
this  country.  Asking  what  these  reasons  were,  I  answered, 
that  the  evils  committed  in  his  country  were  more  than 
sufficient  to  account  for  it.  He  said,  he  knew  not  of  any 
crimes  committed  under  his  dominion,  and  if  I  knew  of 
them,  I  should  mention  them.  I  then  represented  to  him 
the  plunderings  and  excesses  of  some  of  his  Captains 
against  the  Christians,  to  which  he  made  no  reply.' 

While  unable  to  found  any  permanent  centre  for  mission- 
ary work  among  the  Kafirs,  Vanderkemp  was  instant  in 
season  and  out  of  season  in  the  work  of  the  Gospel.  His 
trained  intellect  acquired  the  native  languages  very  rapidly. 
His  knowledge  of  Dutch  was  most  useful  in  his  intercourse 
with  the  colonists.  His  sympathies  went  out  to  the  down- 
trodden Hottentots.  In  a  multitude  of  ways  he  sowed  the 
good  seed  in  the  depraved  and  sorrowful  hearts  around 
him.  He  exerted  great  attractive  power  over  many  who 
came  to  know  him.  His  simple  journal  records  the  good 
effect  of  many  a  word  spoken  in  season. 

At  length,  on  December  28,  1800,  he  heard  of  the 
arrival  at  the  Cape  of  Anderson,  Read,  Vanderlingen, 
and  Tromp — the  first  reinforcements  the  Directors  had 
been  able  to  send  out.  In  his  journal  for  that  day  he 
notes  thankfully  the  evidences  of  God's  blessing  upon  his 
work  in  Africa  revealed  by  the  letters  he  had  just  received. 
These  brought  him  tidings  that  Read  and  Vanderlingen 
had  been  chosen  by  lot  as  his  assistants  in  Kafirland  ;  but 
that  the  governor  found  it  unadvisable  for  the  present  to 
allow  them  to  proceed  on  their  journey,  and  that  they  were 
now  employed  in  the  Wagenmaker's  Valley.  The  colonists 
who  were  living  among  the  Kafirs  fell  into  a  panic,  and 
resolved  to  leave  the  country,  but  were  undetermined  where 
to  go.  Vanderkemp  was  in  doubt  himself  as  to  what  he 
ought  to  do,  and  finally,  after  much  heart-searching  and 
prayer,  on  December  31,  1800,  he  reluctantly  withdrew 
from  Kafirland.  In  this  way  ended  the  first  missionary 
effort  among  those  wild  tribes. 


494  THE  MISSION   TO   THE  KAFIRS 

From  January  until  May,  1801,  Vanderkemp  journeyed 
and  camped  with  a  roving  company  of  colonists  who, 
like  most  of  their  kind  at  that  day,  had  their  hand  against 
all  sorts  and  conditions  of  men — Bushmen,  Kafirs,  and 
Hottentots.  On  May  14  he  reached  Graaff  Reinet,  and 
there,  to  his  joy,  he  found  awaiting  him  Read  and  Vander- 
lingen.  Vanderkemp  was  at  once  urged,  as  he  had  already 
been  repeatedly  by  letter,  to  accept  the  pastorate  of  the 
Dutch  Church  at  Graaff  Reinet.  This  he  resolutely  de- 
clined ;  and  on  May  31  Vanderlingen  accepted  the  post, 
thus  early  illustrating  one  great  hindrance  to  missionary 
labour  in  South  Africa.  Not  unfrequently  those  sent  out  to 
do  mission  work  settled  down  to  the  easier  and  more  com- 
fortable employment  of  presiding  over  churches  attended 
and  maintained  .by  the  Dutch  colonists. 

It  is  not  easy  to  form  an  adequate  conception  of  the 
state  of  South  x'\frica  in  180J.  Many  of  the  Dutch 
settlers  scattered  over  the  country  gave  but  scant  respect 
and  still  scantier  obedience  to  the  Government.  They 
hungered  for  the  land  occupied  by  the  natives,  whether 
Kafirs,  Bushmen,  or  Hottentots.  Their  cruelties  had 
driven  all  classes  of  natives  into  the  wildest  excesses  of 
revenge,  and  the  land  was  full  of  crimes  of  every  kind. 
Into  this  seething  turmoil  of  conflicting  passions  came 
Vanderkemp  and  his  colleagues.  The  better  sort  of 
colonists— a  small  minority— welcomed  them  and  aided 
them.  Of  the  rest  some  tolerated  their  presence,  but  most 
began  to  hate  them  almost  worse  than  they  did  the  natives. 
Most  of  the  Boers  were  fairly  loyal  to  the  Government, 
and  submitted  with  more  or  less  grace  to  the  legislative 
enactments  regulating  their  treatment  of  the  natives.  But 
upon  many  of  them,  especially  in  the  outlying  regions,  the 
hand  of  authority  pres.sed  very  lightly  indeed,  and  they 
did  not  scruple  even  to  use  force  against  the  authorities 
m  order  to  secure  their  own  selfish  ends.  These  were  the 
men  who  did  not  care  to  have  their  cruelties  scanned  by 
impartial  eyes.  They  did  not  wish  the  natives  to  become 
educated  and  civilized.     Their  object  was  to  annihilate  or 


COLONISTS    OPPOSE    VANDERKEMP  495 

reduce  to  servitude  the  whole  heathen  population  and  to 
seize,  upon  their  lands.  Anything  that  tended  to  fit  natives 
for  the  duties  and  responsibilities  of  life,  and  thus  to 
lengthen  their  stay  as  the  legitimate  occupiers  of  the  soil, 
they  could  not  away  with.  Hence  the  moment  the  true 
tendenc}'  of  Vanderkemp's  work  became  evident,  ever}- 
weapon  that  could  be  used  against  him — slander,  misrepre- 
sentation, covert  influence  and  open  force — was  freely  and 
constantly  employed  to  cripple  and,  if  possible,  to  termi- 
nate his  beneficent  labours.  Here  are  a  few  examples  in 
proof  of  this  contention  from  Vanderkemp's  journal  in  1801 
of  proceedings  in  and  around  Graaff  Reinet  : — 

Jtme  ].  'At  the  missionary  prayer  meeting,  which  was 
kept  this  evening  in  the  church,  besides  the  church  mem- 
bers, a  great  number  of  heathen  of  the  Hottentot  and  other 
nations  were  present,  who  opened  this  solemnity  by  sing- 
ing Psalm  cxxxiv,  which  was  answered  by  the  Christian 
congregation  by  singing  Psalm  Ixxiv.  4-10.' 

June  2.  '  Brother  Read  began  to  keep  with  me  a  read- 
ing and  writing  school  for  the  instruction  of  the  Hottentots.' 

Jtme  9.  '  A  number  of  colonists,  with  about  three  hun- 
dred wagons,  left  their  houses  and  assembled  in  Zwagers- 
hoek,  murmuring  against  the  instruction  of  the  heathen. 
We  were  informed  that  they  intended  to  come,  and  to  burn 
Graaff  Reinet,  and  even  the  nearest  inhabitants  in  its  neigh- 
bourhood fled  from  their  farms.  They  alleged  that  the 
Caffrees  had  molested  some  of  the  farmers  at  Bruntjes- 
hoogte,  and  robbed  them  of  their  cattle  ;  that  they  also 
were  dissatisfied  on  account  of  the  privileges  which  were 
granted  to  the  Hottentots,  and  their  admission  into  the 
church.' 

June  30.  '  Graaff"  Reinet  was  alarmed  by  the  intelli- 
gence that  the  inhabitants  of  the  Colon\-  who  had  recentl}- 
left  their  farms,  armed,  had  united  in  a  body  behind  the 
snow  mountains,  under  pretext  of  being  driven  away  by 
the  Caffrees.  This  pretext  soon  proved  to  be  false.  The\' 
complained  that  government  protected  the  Hottentots  and 
Caffrees    and   encouraged    them    to    rob    and    murder  the 


496  THE  MISSION  TO   THE  KAFIRS 

Colonists  ;  that  they  were  instructed  by  us  in  reading, 
writing,  and  religion,  and  thereby  put  upon  an  equal  footing 
with  the  Christians  ;  especially  that  they  were  admitted 
in  the  church  of  Graafif  Reinet,  and  that  we  kept  meetings 
with  them  every  evening  in  that  place  ;  that  they  intended 
to  fall  upon  Graafif  Reinet,  and  to  force  the  Commissioner 
to  put  a  stop  to  these  proceedings.' 

On  July  9  the  rebels  ^  prepared  for  an  attack  upon  Graafif 
Reinet,  and  were  held  in  check  only  by  the  bold  attitude 
of  the  commissioner,  supported  by  some  English  dragoons. 
Finally,  largely  by  Vanderkemp's  personal  influence,  a 
temporary  peace  was  patched  up. 

During  this  suspension  of  hostilities,  hearing  that  the 
Kafir  chief  Gaika  wished  to  see  him,  and  was  still  favour- 
ably disposed  towards  a  mission,  Vanderkemp,  with  Read, 
and  the  son  of  the  commissioner,  Mr.  Maynier,  went  in 
search  of  him,  and  had  interviews  with  him  on  August  19 
and  20.  These  only  served  to  convince  Vanderkemp  that 
for  the  present  the  Hottentots  and  not  the  Kafirs  were  to 
be  his  first  concern.  He  returned  to  Graaff  Reinet  on 
August  27,  and  on  September  7  he  describes  the  acqui- 
sition of  the  first  land  possessed  by  the  Society  in  South 
Africa. 

September  7.  '  Our  Hottentot  congregation  increases 
gradually  in  number,  knowledge,  and  grace.  The  number 
of  children  at  present  in  our  school  is  sixty-two.  We  have 
resolved  to  fix  a  small  missionary  settlement  at  Graafif 
Reinet,  under  the  care  of  one  missionary,  consisting  of 
a  hall  for  keeping  meetings  and  a  school,  and  a  house  for 
the  missionary;  the  Commissioner  Maynier  gave  us  for 
this  purpose  a  piece  of  ground  on  the  banks  of  the  Sun- 
day river,  about  2,660  ft.  long,  and  537  ft.  broad  ;  this  we 
accepted  in  the  name  of  the  Missionary  Society.' 

The  missionaries  were  cheered  at  this  time  by  instances 
of  conversion  among  the  Hottentot  slaves,  and  attempted 
to  push  on  steadily  with  their  work.     But  on  October  23 

That  is,  dissatisfied  Boers  who  were  chafing  against  the  restraints  of  the 
I'ritish  Government. 


Dr.  Va.n'derkemp 
Cape  Colony) 


Dr.   Philip 
(Cape  Colom) 


S 


William  Ashton 
(Becliuanaland) 


Kmame 
U'i'alapyc; 


John  Mackenzie 

(Kuruinaii  and  Mankey) 


SETTLEMENT  AT  BOTHA'S  FARM  497 

hostilities  broke  out  again  between  the  insurgents  and  the 
authorities.  Graafif  Reinet  was  attacked,  several  houses 
burned,  and  Vanderkemp  fired  at  several  times  by  the 
insurgents,  who,  however,  were  soon  compelled  to  retreat. 
On  November  8  a  letter  arrived  from  Governor  Dundas. 
giving  Vanderkemp  authority  to  take  land  and  found  a 
missionary  settlement  wherever  he  thought  it  would  prove 
most  useful.  Finally  a  settlement  was  made  at  Botha's 
Farm  near  Algoa  Bay  in  March,  1802. 

[Authorities. — Letters  and  Official  Reports;   Transactions  of  the  Society. 
vol.  i.] 


CHAPTER   XVII 

THE    FOUNDING   OF   BETHELSDORP 

In  March,  1802,  Vanderkemp  and  Read  took  possession 
of  Botha's  Farm  near  Algoa  Bay.  As  this  settlement  led 
to  the  formation  of  the  first  missionary  '  institution  '  in  the 
colony,  and  as  this  and  others  which  succeeded  it  became 
the  objects  of  bitter  prejudice,  obloquy,  and  misrepresenta- 
tion on  the  part  not  only  of  colonists  but  also  of  later 
historians,  we  give  in  some  detail  the  objects  it  was  intended 
to  secure.  At  the  time  it  was  founded  Hottentots  and 
Bushmen  were  absolutely  at  the  mercy  of  the  colonists. 
Theoretically,  and  according  to  the  letter  of  the  law,  they 
had  a  few  rights  ;  practically  they  had  none.  They  were 
enslaved,  they  were  robbed,  they  were  even  murdered  with 
impunity.  Not  only  from  the  fact  that  unlike  their  oppres- 
sors they  were  savages,  but  also  goaded  to  desperation  by 
a  long  series  of  outrages,  they  did  the  most  natural  thing 
in  the  world — they  robbed  and  even  murdered  colonists, 
when  they  could.  On  this  account  the  men  whose  oppres- 
sions and  outrages  had  driven  them  to  more  savage  deeds 
in  the  way  of  reprisals  than  they  would  otherwise  have 
committed,  represented  such  reprisals  as  clear  proof  of 
their  untameablc  ferocity,  and  as  ample  justification  for 
a  policy  of  absolute  subjection  and  even  annihilation. 
When  Vanderkemp  founded  Bethelsdorp  there  was  no 
spot  of  territory  in  all  Cape  Colony  where  Hottentots 
were  safe  from  colonial  oppression.      That  he  succeeded 


VANDERKEMP'S  MISSIONARY  SETTLEMENT     499 

in  establishing  such  a  refuge  was  in  the  judgment  of  the 
colonists  an  unpardonable  offence. 

The  principles  upon  which  the  new  settlement  was  to  be 
based  are  set  forth  at  length  in  a  letter  from  Vanderkemp 
to  Governor  Dundas,  dated  February  11,  1801  \  These 
are  thirteen  in  number  ;  but  the  most  important,  especially 
in  the  light  of  later  calumny  and  opposition,  w^ere  the 
following : — 

'  2.  The  chief  object  and  aim  of  the  missionaries  under 
whose  direction  this  settlement  shall  be  established  ought 
to  be  to  promote  the  knowledge  of  Christ  and  the  practice 
of  real  piety,  both  by  instruction  and  example,  among  the 
Hottentots  and  other  heathen,  who  shall  be  admitted  and 
formed  into  a  regular  society  ;  and,  in  the  second  place, 
the  temporal  happiness  and  usefulness  of  this  society,  with 
respect  to  the  country  at  large. 

'3.  Into  this  society  only  those  ought  to  be  admitted 
who  will  engage  themselves  to  live  according  to  the  rules  of 
the  institution. 

'  4.  The  actual  admission  and  expulsion  from  this  society 
.shall  entirely  depend  upon  the  judgment  of  the  missionaries. 

'  6.  As  we  are  of  opinion  that  the  rule  laid  down  by  Paul, 
'''  that  if  any  would  not  work,  neither  should  he  eat,"  ought 
to  be  strictly  observed  in  every  Christian  society,  our 
intention  is  to  discourage  idleness  and  laziness ;  and  to 
have  the  individuals  of  our  institution,  as  much  as  circum- 
stances shall  admit,  employed  in  different  useful  occu- 
pations, for  the  cultivation  of  their  rational  faculties,  or 
exercise  of  the  body,  as  means  of  subsistence,  and  of 
promoting  the  welfare  of  this  society,  and  the  colony  at 
large. 

'  7.  As  the  introduction  of  these  employments  will  involve 
the  European  missionary  societies  in  considerable  expenses, 
the  workmen  should  be  considered  as  journeymen  in  the 
service  of  the  society,  and  be  paid  weekly  for  their  labour  ; 

'  Quoted  in  Researches  in  South  Africa,  i.  pp.  71-76,  by  Dr.  Philip;  also 
in  Transactions,  i.  pp.  497,  498. 

K  k  2 


5CO  THE  FOUNDING   OF  BETHELSDORP 

but  the  products  of  their  labours  should  be  the  property 
of  the  society,  and  sold  for  its  benefit. 

'  lo.  We  have  no  severer  punishment  than  excommuni- 
cation from  the  Church  and  expulsion  from  the  society.  If 
we  shall  be  compelled  to  proceed  to  this  last  step,  we  shall 
think  it  our  duty  to  inform  the  landdrost  of  the  fact,  that 
justice  may  be  administered  by  the  court  to  whose  cogni- 
zance the  crime  belongs,  and  no  malefactor  find  shelter 
within  our  walls. 

'13.  As  to  the  protection  which  we  may  expect  from 
your  excellency,  we  entirely  trust  to  your  excellency's 
declared  resolution  to  favour  our  missionary  exertions,  and 
request  that  we  may  enjoy  the  same  protection  and 
privileges  which  are  granted  to  the  (Moravian)  Brethren 
at  the  Bavian's  Kloof.' 

Convinced  by  his  African  experience  that  his  true 
mission  was  to  the  downtrodden  and  oppressed  Hotten- 
tots, Vanderkemp  sought  to  make  his  settlement  a  secure 
home  for  them.  He  had  no  sympathy  with  the  numerous 
marauding  bands  of  Kafirs  and  Hottentots  which  were  only 
too  common  in  the  colony,  but  he  allowed  any  who  wished 
to  leave  such  bands  to  come  and  share  the  benefits  of 
Botha's  Farm.  This  led  his  enemies  to  say  that  he  was 
hand-in-glove  with  all  the  worst  bandits  of  the  colony.  In 
September,  1802,  the  garrison  of  Fort  Frederick  being 
ordered  to  the  Cape,  Governor  Dundas  urged  Vanderkemp 
either  to  occupy  the  Fort  or  else  return  with  him  to  Cape 
Town.  Vanderkemp  declined  both  proposals,  resolving 
in  dependence  upon  God  to  continue  his  work  where  he 
was.  Only  eight  days  after  the  troops  left  the  station 
was  attacked  at  night  by  a  band  of  marauding  Hottentots. 
A  chance  shot  killed  their  leader,  and  the  rest  fled.  Two 
days  later  another  attack  was  repelled  by  force. 

*We  were  not  at  all  pleased  with  this,  because  our 
intention  was  to  gain  our  enemies  by  a  soft  and  amiable 
behaviour,  and  thus  by  no  means  to  provoke  them  by 
a  hostile  opposition.  Besides  this,  we  foresaw  that  the 
enemy  reinforcing  himself  more  and  more,  at  last  would  be 


CAPE   COLONY  RESTORED    TO    THE   DUTCH     501 

able  to  lead  on  a  superior  power,  sufficient  to  destroy  us 
entirely.  For  this  reason  we  proposed  to  them  on  the 
self-same  day,  to  take  over  our  institution  into  Fort 
Frederick,  till  Government  should  show  us  a  place  fit  for 
our  residence,  and  under  its  protection.  This  was  resolved 
upon,  and  on  the  following  day,  October  1,  was  executed 
by  the  assistance  of  the  colonists,  who  came  for  that 
purpose  from  the  fortress,  and  conveyed  us  on  our  way. 
They  thought  undoubtedly,  that  we  should  now  make 
a  common  cause  against  the  savages  ;  but  saw  themselves 
deceived,  when  we  told  them  the  intention  of  our  mission, 
and  that  we  should  keep  a  complete  neutrality  in  the  war 
with  the  savages,  and  that  we  did  not  make  use  of  arms,  but 
only  for  unavoidable  self-defence,  nor  opposed  the  disorders 
of  the  savages  but  by  Christian  admonitions  and  examples, 
of  which  they  could  sec  the  effects  in  our  Hottentots  ^' 

April  23, 1^03.  'Monday  evening  last  a  Dutch  man-of-war 
put  into  the  bay,  and  brought  me  your  letters  of  April  1 6  and 
July  2,  1802.  It  also  brought  the  tidings  of  the  restoration 
of  the  colony  to  the  Dutch,  and  of  the  appointment  of  Jan 
Willem  Janssens  as  the  new  Governor.'  In  a  later  letter 
Vanderkemp  continues  : — 

'  Since  I  wrote  the  above,  the  Governor  has  come  to  see 
me.  He  has  been  looking  out  for  a  suitable  place  of  abode 
for  us,  and  thinks  he  has  found  a  good  one,  at  the  mouth 
of  the  Zwartkops  River.  The  Governor  wished  us  to  desist 
for  the  present  from  the  instruction  of  the  Hottentots  in 
reading  and  writing,  chiefly  the  latter  ;  but  I  could  not, 
however,  with  all  the  regard  due  to  his  rank  and  character, 
consent  to  a  proposal  so  contrary  to  the  apparent  interest 
of  Christ's  kingdom,  and  so  unworthy  of  the  rights  of  a  free 
nation,  merely  to  stop  the  clamour  of  a  number  of  ill- 
natured  people  ;  but  the  prejudices  of  honest  men  against 
us  diminish  gradually,  as  they  become  better  acquainted 
with  us,  and  I  hope  that  some  prohibitions  under  which  we 
are  at  present  will  shortly  be  removed  -.' 

These  events   led  to  the  founding  of  the  station  aftcr- 

*   Transactions,  ii.  p.  89.  *  Ibid.  p.  94. 


502  THE  FOUNDING   OF  BETHELSDORP 

wards  so  famous  under  the  name  of  Bethclsdorp.  Contrary 
to  the  hopes  and  confident  expectation  of  all  the  enemies 
of  the  natives,  the  new  Dutch  governor,  who  was  a  personal 
friend  of  Dr.  Vanderkemp,  manifested  a  sympathetic  atti- 
tude towards  his  work,  although  serious  attempts  had  already 
been  made  by  the  Dutch  colonists  to  poison  his  mind  on 
this  question.  In  his  journal  at  this  time  Vanderkemp 
wrote : — 

'  The  Governor's  mind,  we  found,  by  false  representa- 
tions, had  been  preoccupied  against  our  institution,  by 
persons  whose  malicious  projects  had  struck  at  the  very 
root  of  the  mission.  "  But  the  counsel  of  God  standeth 
sure,  and  He  will  do  all  His  pleasure."  The  Governor, 
however,  seemed  immediately  convinced  of  the  utility  of 
our  labours  among  the  Hottentots,  and  steps  were  imme- 
diately taken  to  find  a  spot  of  ground  for  our  settlement ; 
»and  the  only  one  that  could  be  found,  not  in  the  possession 
of  farmers,  was  about  seven  miles  north  of  Fort  Frederick, 
near  a  small  river,  called  by  the  Hottentots  Kooboo,  at 
the  entrance  of  a  kloof  which  separates  a  ridge  of  high 
mountains.  After  this  place  was  assigned  for  the  estab- 
lishment, the  Governor  requested  Brother  Vanderkemp 
to  give  it  a  name.  Brother  Vanderkemp,  after  a  moment's 
hesitation,  and  recollecting  the  text  from  which  he  had 
preached  the  Sunday  before  our  departure  from  Graaff 
Reinet,  Gen.  xxxv.  2,  3  1,  proposed  to  his  Excellency  the 
name  Bethelsdorp  (Village  of  Bethel),  and  his  Excellency 
approving  it,  it  was  concluded  that  that  should  be  its 
name.  Governor  Janssens  seemed,  however,  prejudiced 
against  our  teaching  the  Hottentots  to  write,  considering 
them  not  to  be  sufficiently  civilized  to  make  a  proper  use  of 
it.  This  prejudice  we  supposed  had  been  much  strength- 
ened by  the  Christians,  who  would  not  have  had  the  face 
to  have  mentioned  it  under  the  English  Government.     We 

'  Then  Jacob  said  unto  his  household,  and  to  all  that  were  with  him,  Put 
away  the  strange  gods  that  are  among  you,  and  be  clean,  and  change  your 
garments.  And  let  us  arise,  and  go  up  to  Bcth-el';  and  I  will  make  there  an 
altar  unto  God,  who  answered  me  in  the  day  of  my  distress,  and  was  with  me 
in  the  way  which  I  went.' 


FOUNDING   OF  BETHELSDORP  503 

kept  our  ground,  considering  it  a  privilege,  that  we  could 
not  conscientiously  keep  from  them  without  a  positive 
prohibition,  which  we,  however,  did  not  receive.  Governor 
Janssens,  while  he  tarried  at  the  Bay,  visited  us  frequently, 
and  gave  us  every  token  of  friendship.  His  Excellency 
left  the  Bay  on  the  second  of  June  '/ 

'  The  state  of  poverty  in  which  most  of  the  Hottentots 
are,  obliges  many  to  go  to  the  Boers  to  work ;  others 
go  from  their  own  free  choice,  as  these  have  no  care  upon 
them  to  provide  for  themselves,  which  is  one  of  the 
characteristics  of  a  Hottentot.  Others  choose  to  lie  in  the 
bushes,  and  live  upon  the  roots  of  the  field,  rather  than  be 
subject  to  the  discipline  of  a  civilized  life.  Laziness  is  the 
most  prevalent  evil  among  our  people,  which  exposes  them 
to  the  greatest  distresses-.' 

'The  inconstancy  of  the  Hottentots  in  their  matrimonial 
connections  subjects  us  to  great  irregularities.  We  exhort, 
as  much  as  possible,  those  who  are  still  heathen  to  abide 
with  their  wives,  and  not  to  leave  or  change  them,  as  their 
custom  is ;  and  those  who  believe  in  Christ,  we  oblige,  with 
consent  of  the  unbelieving  moiety,  publicly  to  bind  them- 
selves to  each  other  in  the  inviolable  ties  of  matrimon}-. 
In  this  manner  Brother  Read  was  married,  on  the  twenty- 
ninth  of  June,  to  a  young  Hottentot  woman,  by  Brother 
Vanderkemp  ^.' 

Few  attempts  have  been  made  to  estimate  accurately 
the  influence  exerted  by  Christian  missions  in  South  Africa 
during  the  first  fifty  years  of  the  nineteenth  century.  That 
they  very  powerfully  affected  public  opinion  is  proved  by 
the  intense  hostility  they  aroused  in  so  many  quarters. 
The  various  educational  institutions  established  by  the 
missionaries  became  potent  forces  in  the  civilization  and 
development  of  the  colony.  There  were  also  very  many 
instances  of  direct  conversion,  those  who  thus  became 
trophies  of  Divine  grace  having  been  not  unfrequentl)- 
monsters  of  evil   in  their  unregenerate   state.      The   con- 

'    Transactions,  ii.  p,  162.  ^  Ibid.  p.  165. 

'  Ibid.  p.  166. 


504  THE  FOUNDING    OF  BETHELSDORP 

version  of  Cupido  may  be  taken  as  a  typical  example 
of  this  class.  This  man  had  long  been  notorious  for 
swearing,  lying,  fighting,  but  especially  for  drunkenness, 
which  often  brought  him  upon  a  sick  bed,  being  natu- 
rally weak.  '  At  such  times,'  writes  Vanderkemp,  '  he 
always  resolved  to  leave  that  practice  and  lead  a  sober 
life.  He  was.  however,  surprised  to  find  that  no  sooner 
did  his  health  return  than  his  sins  again  prevailed.  He 
was  sometimes  afraid  of  God,  although  ignorant  of  Him  : 
and  expected  that  his  conduct  would  prove  the  destruction 
of  his  soul.  He  inquired  of  all  he  met  with  for  means  to 
deliver  him  from  the  sin  of  drunkenness,  supposing  that  to 
leave  the  rest  would  then  be  easy  ;  but  in  vain.  His  feet 
were  providentially  led  to  Graafif  Reinet,  where  he  heard, 
in  a  discourse  from  Brother  Vanderlingen,  that  Christ  Jesus, 
the  Son  of  God,  could  save  sinners  from  their  sins.  He 
cried  out  to  himself,  "  That  is  what  I  want,  that  is  what 
I  want!"  He  immediately  left  business  to  come  to  us, 
that  he  might  get  acquainted  with  this  Jesus  ;  and  told  all 
he  met  that  he  had  at  last  found  one  who  could  save  him 
from  his  sins.  .  .  .  He  was  then  brought  earnestly  to 
-seek  an  interest  in  Christ,  and  he  is  now  become  one 
of  our  most  zealous  fellow-labourers.  To  Brother  Cupido 
has  been  added  this  year  seventeen  persons — nine  men, 
and  eight  women,  besides  thirteen  children.  One  of  the 
women  is  now  the  wife  of  Brother  Read^.' 

The  hostile  action  taken  by  some  of  their  neighbours  did 
not  cease  as  time  passed  on.  On  April  i8,  1804,  Vander- 
kemp, on  behalf  of  his  brethren,  wrote  to  the  governor, 
that  their  consciences  would  not  permit  them  any  longer  to 
observe  that  hard  article  of  the  settlement  granted  to  the 
institution,  by  which  they  were  recommended  to  encourage 
the  voluntary  engagement  of  the  Hottentots  into  the 
service  of  the  colonists,  on  account  of  the  cruelty  and 
injustice  with  which  those  who  entered  into  their  service 
were  treated,  without  any  justice  being  done  to  them  by 
the  magistrates.     In  answer  to  this  the  Governor  ordered 

'    Transactions,  ii.  pp.  166,  167. 


OPPRESSIOA'  OF   THE  HOTTENTOTS  505 

the  landdrost  of  this  district  to  take  the  necessary  steps. 
This  not  being  done,  and  the  oppression  of  these  inhuman 
wretches,  who  called  themselves  Christians,  for  the  greatest 
part  continuing  unpunished,  Vanderkemp  and  his  colleagues 
persisted  in  their  resolution. 

Although  not  able  to  destroy  the  good  work,  its  enemies 
continued  to  do  all  in  their  power  to  cripple  it,  while  the 
veteran  missionary  eagerly  longed  to  pass  on  to  new  fields 
of  work.  In  a  letter  dated  November  i,  1804,  Vanderkemp 
writes  : — 

'  My  Brother  Read  longs  with  me  for  the  arrival  of  two 
or  three  faithful  missionaries,  to  whom  we  could  (under  the 
approbation  of  the  Society,  by  which  this  mission  shall  be 
directed)  transfer  the  care  of  this  infant  congregation,  that 
we  may,  if  God  opens  the  door,  attempt  a  missionary 
excursion  either  into  the  more  northern  and  entirely 
unknown  parts  of  this  continent,  or  to  Madagascar,  with 
a  view,  however,  to  return  to  our  present  station.  The 
number  of  our  inhabitants  increases  but  verv  slowlv,  and 
amounts  at  this  time  to  320  in  all.  The  wandering  spirit 
and  unsettled  mind  of  the  Hottentots  permits  them  not 
to  stop  long  with  us,  and  more  than  300  have  left  us  since 
the  erection  of  this  institution.  There  are,  however,  a  few 
exceptions.  In  the  course  of  this  year  I  have  baptized 
twenty -two  adults  and  fourteen  children.  The  whole 
number  of  our  church  members  is  forty-three,  one  of  whom 
we  have  to  our  grief  been  obliged  to  cut  off  from  our 
communion,  though  we  still  hope  that  she  is  a  real  Christian. 
At  Graaff  Reinet,  where  the  labours  of  my  dearest  Brother 
Read  have  been  so  eminently  blessed  among  the  English 
soldiers,  the  spiritual  seed  now  springs  up  among  the 
heathen.  This  poor  flock  is  without  a  pastor,  but  the 
great  Shepherd  watches  no  doubt  over  their  souls.  Now 
and  then  our  Hottentot  brethren  visit  them,  and  afford 
them  spiritual  food. 

'The  ground  which  Government  has  assigned  for  our 
institution,  and  which  we  now  occupy,  is  about  ten  miles 
in  circumference,  but  very  barren,  and  seems  very  unfit  for 


5o6  THE  FOUNDING   OF  BETHELSDORP 

the  subsistence  of  a  people,  who  in  their  present  state  of 
imperfection  can  live  only  upon  cattle  and  corn.  Their 
stock  of  the  former  is  inadequate  to  maintain  them,  though 
by  our  care  it  gradually  augments,  and  the  experience  of 
two  years  successively,  in  which  our  harvest  has  totally 
failed  for  want  of  water,  leaves  so  little  hope  of  procuring 
the  latter,  that  there  is  much  reason  to  fear  a  famine. 
This  prospect  contributes  much  to  the  dispersion  of  our 
people  among  the  colonists  ;  and  the  rest  who  continue 
with  us,  show,  not  ambiguously,  a  strong  desire  that 
this  institution  may  be  transferred  to  a  more  convenient 
spot/ 

The  year  1805  saw  the  arrival  of  reinforcements.  On 
March  3  John  Gottfried  Ullbricht,  one  of  the  company 
of  six  who  came  out  with  Mr.  Kicherer  in  1804,  and 
Mr.  Tromp  joined  them.  On  April  24,  1805,  both  Vander- 
kemp  and  Read  were  summoned  to  Cape  Town  by  Governor 
Janssens.  '  We  made  the  journey  in  just  five  weeks,  in 
which  nothing  happened  more  than  is  common  in  such 
journeys.'  Such  pressure  had  been  brought  to  bear  upon 
the  governor  that  he  was  compelled  to  take  this  step 
in  the  direction  of  stopping  work  at  Bethelsdorp.  But, 
as  we  have  seen,  just  when  the  original  workers  were 
stopped  new  labourers  were  sent  to  the  field.  Active 
friends  in  the  colony  were  also  aroused  to  greater  effort 
and  sacrifice. 

Month  after  month  Vanderkemp  and  Read  were  com- 
pelled to  remain  inactive  at  Cape  Town.  They  were 
allowed  neither  to  return  to  Bethelsdorp  nor  '  to  undertake 
an  exploratory  excursion  into  the  adjacent  countries 
beyond,'  because  of  the  Boer  outcry  against  them  *  as 
Englishmen  and  addicted  to  English  interests.'  On 
January  10,  1806,  Cape  Town  surrendered  to  the  English 
under  Sir  David  Baird.  The  British  commander  received 
Vanderkemp  graciously,  and  consulted  him  as  to  the  best 
course  to  pursue  with  the  Hottentot  prisoners.  On 
February  5,  1806,  Vanderkemp  was  permitted  to  begin 
his   return  journey  to  Bethelsdorp,  which  he  reached  on 


BETHELSDORP  IN  1S07  507 

March  12  ;  Read,  who  had  gone  by  sea,  arriving  there  twelve 
days  earlier.  His  voyage  was  adventurous.  Read  had  been 
on  board  the  Duff  in  179^  when  she  was  captured.  Near 
Cape  Town,  wrecked  on  the  beach,  whither  she  had  been 
driven  by  an  English  frigate,  lay  a  French  privateer. 
'  There,'  said  the  captain  to  Read,  'lies  your  enemy  :  that  is 
the  ship  that  was  cruising  off  South  America  during  the 
last  war.'  The  wreck  was  the  Buonaparte  !  The  ship 
carrying  Read  was  at  one  time  on  fire,  and  at  another  was 
almost  on  the  rocks. 

The  work  at  Bethelsdorp  had  prospered  meanwhile,  more 
especially  that  of  Mrs.  Smith  ^  among  the  women.  Vander- 
kemp  himself  had  come  to  feel  more  strongly  than  ever  that 
events  were  teaching  him  that  his  place  for  the  remaining 
working  years  of  his  life  would  be  Bethelsdorp.  During 
J  807  the  mission  proved  no  exception  to  the  rule  that  times 
of  prosperity  are  not  always  seasons  of  spiritual  progress. 
Free  from  their  external  anxieties  the  little  community 
suffered  from  the  backsliding  of  some  of  its  members.  It 
became  more  and  more  evident  also  that  nothing  in  the 
way  of  successful  agriculture  could  be  accomplished.  During 
the  year  Read  built  a  smith's  shop  ;  Ullbricht  a  carpenter  s 
shop,  and  also  a  windmill.  Vanderkemp,  in  addition  to  his 
other  labours,  finished  his  work,  The  Theodicy  of  St.  Paul. 
Read  was  also  formally  elected  minister  of  Bethelsdorp. 

The  irregularities  as  to  the  maintenance  of  missionaries 
which  were  so  common  in  the  South  Seas  obtained  in  South 
Africa  also.     Read  writes  on  February  10,  1807  : — 

'  My  private  expenses  are  now  nearly  or  quite  double 
what  they  were  when  single,  so  that  this  year  it  has  cost  me 
nearly  or  quite  £^0  when  I  used  to  be  able  to  Jive  for  £'^0. 
I  am  under  a  thousand  obligations  to  the  Society  for  the 
favours  already  received,  and  have  no  claims  for  more  ; 
but  if  the  Directors  would  have  the  goodness  to  grant  an 
additional  sum,  it  would  be  very  acceptable,  and  without 
it  I  shall  not  know  what  to  do.' 

*  An  enthusiastic  missionary  worker  in  Cape  Town,  who  had  gone  to 
"Bethelsdorp  when  Vanderkemp  and  Read  were  called  away. 


5o8  THE  FOUNDING   OF  BETHELSDORP 

This  financial  question  cropped  up  from  time  to  time  in 
the  tentative  efforts  on  the  part  of  both  Directors  and 
missionaries  to  arrive  at  a  just  and  adequate  permanent 
arrangement.    On  November  6,  1809  Vanderkemp  wrote  :  — 

'  You  most  h'berally  desire  that  we  should  mention  tlie 
sum  which,  in  our  opinion,  would  be  adequate  to  provide 
a  Missionary  at  Bethelsdorp  with  the  necessaries  of  life.  As 
hitherto  the  Lord  has  enabled  me  to  maintain  myself  and 
family  without  any  expense  to  the  Society,  I  have  left  the 
determination  of  this  sum  to  Brethren  Read  and  Ullbricht  ; 
and  the  result  of  their  consideration  is,  that  as  at  present  a 
new-coming  Missionary  receives  ;!^io  to  build  a  house,  ^^40 
to  buy  cattle  once,  and  for  annual  subsidy,  being  unmarried, 
every  year  £0^0,  or  if  married  ^^40,  and  nothing  for  his 
children ;  in  future,  besides  the  house  and  cattle-money,  an 
unmarried  Missionary  may  have  yearly  ^^35,  a  married,  for 
himself  and  his  wife,  £4^,  and  for  each  child  £^.  We  are 
unanimous  in  opinion,  that  a  Missionary  of  Christ,  who  is 
abundantly  rewarded  for  his  labours  by  his  Master  whom  he 
serves,  not  hired  by  men,  but  out  of  free  love,  is  unworthy 
that  name  if  he  accepts  any  payment  for  his  service  from  men. 
We  therefore  earnestly  request  that  this  money  may  not  be 
considered  as  a  stipend  or  salary,  but  only  as  a  subsidy  for 
those  who  are,  by  the  nature  of  their  service,  unable  to 
subsist  from  their  manual  labour \' 

During  the  year  i8c8  the  little  colony  prospered,  having 
for  the  first  time  in  their  history  a  tolerable  harvest.  In 
April,  1809,  when  visited  by  Colonel  Collins,  the  com- 
missioner sent  to  regulate  the  affairs  of  the  Kafirs, 
a  census  was  taken  with  the  following  result  :— Present  at 
the  time,  146  men,  211  women,  282  children,  total  639; 
absent,  113  men,  121  women,  ic6  children,  total  340  ;  in  all 
979-  Individuals  who  had  been  absent  more  than  a  year 
were  not  counted.  The  uncertainty  which  prevailed  from 
year  to  year  as  to  the  continuance  of  the  mission  on  the 
old  site  checked  attempts  to  erect  permanent  buildings. 
i  he  spirit  in  which  Colonel  Collins  regarded  Bethelsdorp 

'    Transaciions,  iii.  p.  249. 


VANDERKEMP  CHAMPIONS    THE   NATIVES      509 

is  shown  by  the  questions  he  put  to  Vanderkemp,  and  the 
recommendations  in  his  Report. 

'Among  other  questions  in  the  paper  which  he  held  in 
his  hand,  he  asked  the  Doctor,  "  Will  you,  sir,  agree  to  send 
over  to  Citenhagc  Hottentots  whose  services  may  be 
required  by  the  magistrate.  Major  Cuyler  ? "  To  this 
Vanderkemp  directly  replied  in  the  negative.  Being  re- 
quested to  state  the  grounds  on  which  he  rested  his 
objections,  he  remarked,  ''That  to  apprehend  men  as 
prisoners,  and  force  them  to  labour  in  the  manner  proposed, 
was  no  part  of  his  duty.'"  To  a  question,  "  Whether  he 
did  not  consider  it  his  duty  to  compel  the  Hottentots  to 
labour,"  he  replied,"  No, sir  ;  the  Hottentots  are  recognized 
to  be  a  free  people,  and  the  colonists  have  no  more  right 
to  force  them  to  labour  in  the  way  you  propose  than  you 
have  to  sell  them  as  slaves."  Being  asked  why  he  would 
not  obey  the  order  of  the  landdrost,  in  calling  in  the 
Hottentots  who  were  among  the  farmers,  when  they  were 
required  by  the  landdrost :  "  Because,  sir,"  said  he,  "  that 
is  the  duty  of  the  landdrost  himself,  and  he  is  paid  for  it." 
Being  asked  if  he  would  agree  to  prohibit  the  Cafifers  from 
visiting  his  institution,  and  whether  he  would  send  such 
as  might  resort  to  him  under  the  pretext  of  coming  to  seek 
instruction,  as  prisoners  to  Uitenhage  ;  he  replied,  "  Sir, 
my  commission  is  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature, 
and  I  will  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  one  who  chooses 
to  hear  me.  God  has  sent  me,  not  to  put  chains  upon  the 
legs  of  Hottentots  and  Gaffers,  but  to  preach  liberty  to  the 
captives,  and  the  opening  of  the  prison-doors  to  them  that 
are  bound  \"  ' 

On  February  10,  1810,  Michael  Wimmer  and  Carl  Pacalt 
arrived  from  P2ngland.  Erasmus  Smit  had  been  actively 
at  work  also  for  the  last  three  years.  V'anderkemp's  out- 
look was  still  towards  the  regions  beyond.  Correspondence 
had  passed  between  him  and  the  Directors  as  to  the 
renewal  of  the  Kafir  Mission,  and  in  January,  1810,  Read 
visited  Kafirland  ;  also  with  regard  to  a  mission  to  Prince 

'  Researches  in  South  .Africa,  i.  pp.  124,  125. 


=;io 


THE  FOUNDING   OF  BETHELSDORP 


Edward's  Islands,  and  another  to  the  Tambookie  tribes 
lying  to  the  north  and  north-west  of  Kafirland.  But 
Vanderkemp's  heart  was  still  set  on  Madagascar,  and 
thither  he  now  hoped  to  go,  accompanied  by  UUbricht  and 
Pacalt.  The  Government  were  willing  to  afford  such 
facilities  as  they  could,  and  Lord  Caledon,  the  governor, 
promised  that  if  possible  they  should  be  conveyed  thither 
in  a  man-of-war  K  But  the  day  was  never  to  dawn  on 
which  Vanderkemp's  eyes  should  look  upon  the  great 
island  which  had  dwelt  so  long  in  his  thought.  His  race 
was  nearly  run,  his  work  all  but  ended. 

The  whole  weight  of  the  mission  influence  was  exerted 
more  strongly  than  ever  now  in  the  struggle  to  obtain 
justice  for  the  Hottentots.  Read  put  the  case  powerfully 
in  a  letter  to  Lord  Caledon,  dated  October  19,  1810.  He 
also  shows,  without  attempting  to  do  so,  how  impossible  it 
is  for  the  true  missionary  to  avoid  altogether  social  and 
political  complications. 

*  My  Lord, — On  the  8th  of  this  month  I  was  summoned 
to  appear  before  the  Landdrost,  to  give  information  upon 
some  acts  of  cruelty  and  murder,  mentioned  in  a  letter  of 
mine,  written  to  England,  dated  Aug.  30,  1808.  I  have 
given  him  information  of  the  persons  who  had  informed 
me,  and  shall,  with  the  greatest  cheerfulness,  give  every 
further  information  upon  the  subject  in  my  power,  if  it 
should  be  your  Lordship's  desire. 

'  I  have  likewise  given  to  the  Landdrost,  two  papers, 
containing  an  account  of  similar  acts  of  barbarity,  which 
have  been  brought  to  my  knowledge  since  I  have  been  in 
this  country,  and  in  which,  as  far  as  I  know,  not  only  no 
justice  has  ever  been  administered,  but  not  the  least  notice 

*  The  true  inwardness  of  this  offer  is  seen  in  the  following  extract  from 
Kesearches  in  South  Africa,  i.  p.  126  : — 'Colonel  Collins  states  in  his  report 
to  government  (without  supposing,  I  presume,  it  would  ever  be  seen  by  a 
missionary)  that  he  did  all  in  his  power  to  dissuade  Vanderkemp  from  thinking 
of  renewing  the  Caffer  mission  by  endeavouring  to  impress  upon  his  mind  the 
importance  of  a  mission  to  Madagascar.  This  h^  did,  not  from  any  regard  to 
Madagascar,  but  merely  to  get  rid  of  Vanderkemp's  application  to  be  allowed 
to  recommence  a  mission  in  Cafferland.' 


READ'S  APPEAL    TO  LORD   CALEDON         511 

taken  of  them,  which  is  undoubtedly  the  cause  of  the 
continuance  of  the  inhumanity  and  cruel  deeds  committed 
against  this  poor  people. 

'  It  hath  pleased  God,  in  His  providence,  my  Lord  !  to  cast 
me,  and  my  fellow  Missionaries,  in  this  part  of  the  colony, 
in  such  a  situation  as  enables  me  to  become  better  acquainted 
with  the  sufferings  of  this  poor  people  than  any  person 
whatever.  The  poor  Hottentot  in  vain  turns  his  eye  to  any 
person,  to  whom  he  dares  to  unbosom  his  wounded  spirit, 
and  lay  open  his  sore  complaints  :  he  has  sought  for  redress, 
perhaps  at  the  hazard  of  his  life  ;  at  last  he  finds  in  a 
Missionary  a  friend,  whom  he  afterwards  begins  to  ex- 
perience, is  more  or  less  concerned  for  his  temporal  and 
spiritual  welfare  ;  then,  and  not  without  some  degree  of 
fear,  he  tells  his  pitiable  story,  and  even  a  heart  of  stone 
must  bleed  to  hear  the  father  relate  the  loss  of  his  child, 
the  child  that  of  the  father,  the  tender  husband  his  wife, 
and  the  wife  the  husband,  &c.,  &c..  and  the  survivors  forced 
into  an  almost  endless  bondage,  and  the  orphans  made 
worse  than  slaves.  I  hope  that  the  time  is  near  that  their 
cries  will  be  heard,  and  their  numerous  complaints  im- 
partially attended  to,  and  effectual  means  adopted  to 
deliver  them  from  such  oppressions. 

'Another  idea  I  have  to  submit  to  your  Lordship,  and 
which  I  conceive  to  be  of  the  utmost  importance,  is  the 
well-known  rooted  dread  that  reigns  in  the  breast  of  almost 
every  Hottentot,  at  least  in  these  distant  districts,  to  give 
information  against  any  boor  upon  any  subject.  He  con- 
siders himself  endangering  his  life,  and  sacrificing  himself 
to  the  resentment  of  all  the  connections  of  those  against 
whom  he  is  called  to  bear  witness.  It  is  therefore  my 
opinion,  that  the  truth  of  the  crimes  already  committed,  or 
which  may  be  committed,  will  never  be  brought  properly 
to  light,  till  gradual  and  effectual  means  are  taken  to  protect 
and  encourage  those  who  are  able  to  give  information  of 
them.' 

In  consequence  of  this  letter  Lord  Caledon  requested 
Vanderkemp  and  Read  to  come  and  have  an  interview  with 


512  THE  FOUNDING   OF  BETHELSDORP 

him  at  Cape  Town.  On  March  28,  181  i,they  left  Bethels- 
dorp  ;  Vanderkemp  never  to  return.  They  reached  Cape 
Town  on  April  27,  and  on  the  29th  Lord  Caledon  received 
them.  Soon  after  their  arrival  a  change  of  governors  took 
place,  and  they  deemed  it  prudent  to  wait  and  see  the 
incoming  ruler,  Sir  John  Cradock,  who  arrived  on  Septem- 
ber 3,  181 1.  The  facts  brought  to  light  by  Vanderkemp 
and  Read  led  to  action  on  the  part  of  Government  which 
was  very  obnoxious  to  many  colonists.  An  illustration 
of  the  views  on  mission-work  and  its  influence  held  all 
through  the  century  by  that  section  of  South  African 
society  which  had  no  true  sympathy  with  Christian  work 
is  supplied  by  an  extract  or  two  from  the  latest,  and  in 
some  respects  the  ablest,  of  South  African  historians.  In 
his  South  Africa^  published  in  1894,  Mr.  G.  M.  Theal  prints 
these  statements:  'In  1799  the  first  agents  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society  arrived  in  South  Africa.  Unfortunately, 
almost  from  the  day  of  their  landing,  some  of  them  took 
a  more  prominent  part  in  politics  than  iji  elevating  the 
heathen,  and  as  they  advocated  social  equality  between 
barbarians  and  civilized  people,  they  were  speedily  at  feud 
with  the  colonists^.'  Here  the  sentence  we  italicize  is  the 
exact  reverse  of  fact.  It  was  because  they  were  straining 
every  nerve  to  elevate  the  heathen  that  Vanderkemp  and 
Read  appealed,  wherever  it  could  legitimately  be  done, 
to  law  and  to  Government. 

With  regard  to  Vanderkemp's  and  Read's  assertions,  that 
cruelties  had  been  practised  by  many  colonists  towards 
Hottentots,  Mr.  Theal  writes  :  '  Unfortunately,  however,  the 
reverend  Messrs.  Vanderkemp  and  Read  had  given  credence 
to  a  number  of  stories  of  murder  of  Hottentots  and  other 
outrages  said  to  have  been  committed  by  colonists,  and 
their  reports,  in  which  these  tales  appeared  as  facts,  were 
published  in  England.  By  order  of  the  British  Government 
the  charges  thus  made  were  brought  before  the  Second 
Circuit  Court,  which  held  its  sessions  in  the  last  months 
of  1812.     In  this,  the  Black  Circuit  as  it  has  since  been 

*  South  Africa,  by  G.  M.  Theal,  p.  126  (1894). 


'THE  BLACK  CIRCUIT'  513 

called^  no  fewer  than  fifty-eight  white  men  and  women 
were  put  upon  their  trial  for  crimes  alleged  to  have  been 
committed  against  Hottentots  or  slaves,  and  over  loco 
witnesses — European,  black,  and  Hottentot — were  sum- 
moned to  give  evidence.  The  whole  country  was  in 
a  state  of  commotion.  The  serious  charges  were  nearly 
all  proved  to  be  without  foundation  ;  but  several  individiials 
zvere  fotmd  guilty  of  assaidt,  and  were  punished.  The 
irritation  of  the  relatives  and  friends  of  those  who  were 
accused  without  sufficient  cause  was  excessive ;  and  this 
event,  more  than  anything  that  preceded  it,  caused  a  lasting 
unfriendly  feeling  between  the  colonists  and  the  mission- 
aries of  the  London  Society  ^.' 

That  a  colonist  should  have  any  check  exerted  over  his 
dealings  with  Hottentots  was  in  181 2  an  extraordinary 
event ;  that  a  Hottentot  had  any  rights  whatever  in  the 
eyes  of  a  Boer  was  a  doctrine  never  in  practice  admitted 
by  them  ;  that  he  should  be  supported  by  those  who  were 
powerful  enough  to  see  that  even  white  people  should  be 
tried  for  their  crimes  was  intolerable.  Even  the  historian 
has  to  admit  that  some  of  those  who  were  tried  were  guilty 
of  the  offences  charged  against  them.  And  any  one  who 
knows  how  difficult  it  was  in  1812  to  secure  a  conviction 
in  a  colonial  court  for  any  charge  in  which  a  '  barbarian ' 
was  the  accuser,  knows  perfectly  well  that  for  every  guilty 
one  punished  at  least  ten  equally  or  more  guilty  escaped. 
The  real  source  of  colonial  hostility  to  the  early  mission- 
aries was  not  at  all  that  they  interfered  in  politics — a  charge 
absolutely  unfounded — but  it  was  because  they  believed  in 
equal  rights  for  black  and  white,  for  Kafir  and  Boer,  for 
Hottentot  and  colonist.  They  based  this  view  upon  the 
teaching  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  they  strove  in  dependence 
upon  Plim  to  secure  these  rights.  This  was  why  many 
colonists  in  1812  hated  them;  and  this  is  why  historians 
in  later  days  misrepresent  them. 

On  September  13  six  new  missionaries  arrived  from 
England,  and  in  December  Read  returned  to  Bcthelsdorp. 

'  South  Africa^  pp.  145,  146. 
I.  L  1 


5 14     THE  FOUNDING   OF  BETHELSDORP 

A  British  expedition  reached  Algoa  Bay  in  November, 
intended  to  compel  the  Kafirs  to  cross  to  the  east  of  the 
Great  Fish  River.  Vanderkemp  meanwhile  remained  at 
Cape  Town,  where  he  was  joined  in  September  by  Pacalt, 
who  was  both  ready  and  willing  for  the  expedition  to 
Madagascar.  The  war  with  Holland  had  brought  the 
Netherlands  Society  to  an  end  so  far  as  contributing  to 
the  South  African  Missions  was  concerned,  and  from  this 
time  their  whole  cost  fell  upon  the  London  Society,  and 
upon  local  contributions.  At  this  time  an  auxiliary  to  the 
London  Missionary  Society  was  started  in  Cape  Town, 
and  subscriptions  to  the  amount  of  ;^i5o  collected. 

But  ere  the  year  1811  closed  Africa  had  lost  one  of  her 
greatest  benefactors,  the  Society  one  of  its  noblest  workers, 
Bethelsdorp  its  father  and  main  support,  and  the  whole 
South  African  missionary  community  its  most  stimulating 
influence.  '  Dr.  Vanderkemp  was  very  weak,'  wrote  Read, 
'  before  I  left  the  Cape  ;  repeated  strokes  of  apoplexy  had 
greatly  injured  his  health;  so  that  he  could  scarcely  use 
his  right  leg.  and  often  expected,  when  he  left  home,  that 
he  should  not  return  again.  I  never  knew  him  in  such 
a  state  of  uncertainty  and  care  as  some  time  before  his 
death ;  and  I  doubt  not  but  this  tended  to  hasten  his 
dissolution.  He  was  fully  determined  upon  going  to 
Madagascar,  and  without  much  anxiety,  till  a  gentleman, 
a  friend  of  ours,  called  and  made  some  observations  on  the 
imprudence  of  either  of  us  leaving  the  colony  at  the  present 
juncture — that  having  laid  before  Government  numerous 
details  of  complaints,  in  which  many  persons  were  involved, 
our  leaving  the  country  before  the  business  was  investigated 
would  seem  as  if  we  were  afraid  to  abide  the  investiga- 
tion of  the  business,  and  that  others  would  be  injured  by 
it.  This  seemed  to  wound  his  heart,  and  from  that  time 
his  trouble  of  mind  was  very  great.  He  sometimes  thought 
of  going  to  England,  on  account  of  the  poor  suffering 
Hottentots,  and  also  to  secure  for  his  children  a  good 
education  ;  but  in  his  last  letter  to  me  he  writes  thus  :  "  I 
am  still  in  the  same  state  of  perplexity  as  before,  respecting 


DEATH  OF  VANDERKEMP  515 

what  is  my  duty  to  do  ;  but  God,  I  trust,  will  give  de- 
liverance ;  my  prayer  is,  that  He  would  preserve  me  from 
taking  a  wrong  step.  The  Cape  is  unpleasant  to  me — to 
go  to  England,  and  so  give  up  Madagascar,  I  dare  not — 
for  if  I  do  not  go  thither,  who  will  ?^" ' 

Occupied  in  this  way  until  the  call  to  higher  service 
came,  Vanderkemp  was  engaged  to  the  very  last  upon  the 
extension  of  mission-work.  An  unfinished  letter  to  the 
Directors,  the  last  he  wrote,  deals  entirely  with  the  plans 
and  work  of  the  different  missionaries.  Upon  the  back  of 
this  letter  Mrs.  Smith,  one  of  the  most  devoted  helpers 
resident  in  the  colony,  wrote  the  account  of  his  last 
hours: — 

'Cape  Toiv7i^  December  15,  181 1. — I  have  to  mention  to 
you  my  great  grief  and  sorrow,  that  our  faithful  and 
beloved  Brother  Vanderkemp  is  no  more.  After  Brother 
Read's  departure  from  the  Cape,  he  was  very  anxious  to 
see  everything  in  order  about  the  brethren  for  Namaqua- 
land.  Four  of  them  proceeded  to  their  destination,  and 
Brother  Albrecht  remained  to  settle  the  last,  and  when 
that  would  be  done,  to  settle  with  Mr.  Hammes  ;  after 
which  time  he  told  me,  "  My  dear  Mother  Smith,  I  must 
say  that  I  feel  very  weak,  and  wish  for  an  opportunity  to 
settle  my  own  affairs."  But  God's  thoughts  were  not  as 
our  thoughts — He  has  been  pleased  to  afflict  our  worthy 
friend,  on  Saturday,  the  7th  of  December  (after  he  had 
spoken  from  a  chapter  in  the  fulness  of  the  Spirit),  with 
a  .shivering  followed  by  a  fever,  so  that  he  was  under  the 
necessity  to  take  to  his  bed  ;  he  took  some  suitable 
medicine,  but  was  never  able  to  come  out  of  his  bed.  He 
was  very  much  inclined  to  sleep,  and  when  we  spoke  to 
him  he  was  scarcely  able  to  give  us  an  answer.  We  used 
all  the  means  in  our  power  for  his  recovery,  but  to  no 
effect.  I  asked  him,  "  My  dear  friend,  what  is  the  state  of 
your  mind  ?  "  He  answered,  with  a  smiling  countenance, 
"All  is  well  ! "  I  asked  whether  it  was  light  or  darkness? 
He  answered,  "Lights"' 

*  Transactions^  iii.  p.  405.  '  Ibid.  p.  409. 

l1  2 


5i6  THE  FOUNDING   OF  BETHELSDORP 

Dr.  Vanderkemp  passed  away  on  the  eighth  day  of  his 
illness,  December  15,  ]8ii,  at  the  age  of  6'^  years.  His 
last  recorded  word  was  characteristic  of  the  last  twenty 
years  of  his  life — '  Light.'  He  was  highly  educated  both 
in  the  school  of  human  learning,  and  in  the  harder  school 
of  human  experience.  He  had  been  disciplined  by  sorrow, 
by  mental  stress  and  strain,  and  by  long  acquaintance  with 
men  and  affairs.  Having  known  the  bareness  and  pain  of 
life  without  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  and  having  come 
to  realize  in  a  very  simple  and  yet  profound  manner  the 
preciousness  of  Christ  to  his  own  soul,  he  eagerly  sought 
to  make  all  men  acquainted  with  the  same  loving  and 
merciful  and  all-powerful  Saviour.  His  gifts  of  mind  and 
body  and  temperament  fitted  him  in  a  very  high  degree 
to  be  the  leading  spirit  in  the  great  enterprise  of  laying 
broadly  and  well  the  foundations  of  the  work  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society  in  Africa.  The  success  and  the  develop- 
ment of  that  missionary  enterprise,  and  the  mighty  influ- 
ence it  has  exerted  throughout  the  century  upon  the  social 
and  moral,  and  even  upon  the  political  condition  of  that 
vast  continent,  are  the  noblest  tributes  to  his  work.  Multi- 
tudes who  never  heard  his  name  have  had  cause  to  bless 
that  overruling  Divine  guidance  which  fitted  Vanderkemp 
for  his  great  task,  and  which  enabled  him  to  toil  so  nobly 
to  its  close. 

The  day  after  Vanderkemp  died,  on  December  16,  1811, 
a  very  important  decision  was  taken  by  the  Board  of 
Directors  in  London.  They  had  long  felt  the  need  in 
South  Africa  of  a  strong,  capable,  general  superintendent 
of  all  the  scattered  missions  and  missionary  work.  Many 
letters  had  passed  between  them  and  their  valued  colleague 
on  this  question.  And  almost  at  the  very  time  when  that 
great  heart  ceased  to  beat  and  that  clear,  strong  brain  to 
plan,  they  passed  five  resolutions  which  were  to  guide  the 
future  policy  of  the  Society  in  South  Africa.  The  first 
appointed  Mr.  P.  F.  Hammes,  of  Cape  Town,  financial 
agent  through  whom  all  bills  on  the  treasurer  were  to  be 
drawn.     The  second  ran — 


A   NEW  POLICY  517 

'  That  the  Rev.  Dr.  Vanderkemp  be  appointed  super- 
intendent or  inspector  to  the  Society,  or  in  the  event  of 
his  decease  or  departure  from  the  Colony,  that  Mr.  James 
Read  shall  be  appointed  to  that  office,  and  that  he  be 
empowered  to  take  a  general  oversight  of  the  affairs  of 
every  station,  and  to  exercise,  as  a  Director  of  the  Society 
and  its  representative  at  the  Cape,  such  powers  of  control 
and  influence  as  may  appear  requisite  for  the  great  object 
in  view.' 

The  third  appointed  the  following  local  superintendents 
or  presiding  missionaries:  Anderson  at  Orange  River; 
C.  Albrecht  among  the  Namaquas ;  Wimmer  or  Ullbricht 
at  Bethelsdorp  should  Read  leave.  The  fourth  settled  the 
allowances,  according  to  Vanderkemp's  ideas.  The  fifth 
apprised  all  the  missionaries  of  this  policy,  and  instructed 
them  to  arrange  for  supplies,  and  all  the  important 
details  of  their  work  with  the  general  superintendent. 
These  resolutions  embodied  Vanderkemp's  own  policy ; 
but  his  successors  carried  it  out. 


[Authorities. — Letters  and  Official  Reports;   Transactions  of  the  Sockty., 
vols,  ii  and  iii ;  Researches  in  South  Africa,  by  Dr.  Philip.] 


CHAPTER    XVIII 

OTHER   PIONEER   MISSIONS  IN    SOUTH   AFRICA 

I.  The  Mission  to  the  Zak  River. — The  original 
intention  of  the  little  con:ipany  of  missionaries  who  entered 
Cape  Town,  March  31,  1799,  was  to  attempt  as  a  united 
band  the  mission  to  the  Kafirs.  But  God  ordered  it 
otherwise.  The  Bushmen,  the  descendants  probably  of 
the  aboriginal  inhabitants  of  South  Africa,  and  by  many 
considered  to  be  almost  the  lowest  in  the  scale  of  human 
beings,  were  not  to  be  neglected.  Very  singular  was  the 
providential  sequence  of  cause  and  effect  which  separated 
Kicherer  and  Edwards  from  Vanderkemp  and  Edmonds, 
and  sent  them  to  the  Zak  River  instead  of  to  Graaff 
Reinet.  Kicherer  and  Kramer  thus  describe  the  origin  of 
the  mission : — 

'  Our  coming  among  them  was  occasioned  by  a  very 
singular  providence.  Just  as  we  arrived  at  the  Cape, 
three  deputies  from  the  Boschemen  (Bushmen)  arrived 
also  :  these  men  requested  us,  by  means  of  an  interpreter 
whom  they  had  with  them,  to  come  and  instruct  them. 
A  certain  Floris  Fischer,  being  field  cornet,  in  the  name  of 
the  Government,  had,  some  time  before,  gone  amongst 
these  people  to  contract  a  peace  with  some  of  the  nearest 
of  them.  In  this  attempt,  under  the  Lord's  blessing,  he 
had  happily  succeeded.  This  good  man  did,  at  evening 
and  in  the  morning,  bow  his  knees  before  God,  and  also 
sung  psalms,  which   made  such  an   impression  upon  this 


MISSION  TO   THE  BUSHMEN  519 

nation,  that  they  from  that  moment  neglected  not  to 
request  that  he  would  take  care  that  they  might  learn 
to  know  that  God  whom  the  Dutch  prayed  to  ;  hereupon 
he  promised  that  he  would,  and  that  they  should  obtain 
among  them  an  instructor  or  teacher,  though  he  was  utterly 
at  a  loss  to  procure  one,  as  everybody  appeared  afraid  of 
this  people,  and  few  w^ould  willingly  live  in  such  a  wilder- 
ness, separated  from  all  Christian  society.  See,  dear 
brethren,  this  was  to  take  place  previously ;  and  even 
at  that  period  that  they  were  thus  assembled,  we  were 
influenced  to  come  from  far  countries  to  comply  with  their 
desire.  How  clearly  is  the  hand  of  God  to  be  observed 
in  this!  Wonderful  God,  how  adorable  art  Thou  in  Thy 
ways ! ' 

These  three  men  were  Bushmen  leaders,  and  were  named 
Vigilant,  Slaporm,and  Orclam.and  the  last  named  belonged 
to  the  tribe  of  the  Corannas.  A  young  Dutchman,  a 
native  of  the  Cape,  Cornelius  Adrian  Kramer  by  name, 
had  been  drawn  to  the  work,  was  approved  by  Vanderkemp, 
and  associated  by  him  with  his  two  colleagues  for  this  new 
and  difficult  work. 

On  May  22,  1799,  Kicherer,  Edwards,  and  Kramer  left 
Cape  Town,  accompanied  by  Vanderkemp  and  Edmond, 
who  travelled  with  them  as  far  as  Rodezand,  on  their  way 
to  Kaffraria.  On  June  25,  Kicherer  and  his  party  left 
Rodezand,  and  after  a  fortnight's  journey  through  the 
mountainous  Roggeveld,  and  the  level  Karroo,  they  arrived 
safely  at  Floris  Fischer's,  where  they  continued  three 
weeks,  in  order  to  prepare  for  their  further  journey.  On 
July  22  they  left  the  Karroo,  accompanied  by  their  generous 
host,  Mr.  Plscher,  with  several  other  farmers  and  their 
servants,  to  the  number  of  about  fifty,  having  in  their  train 
six  wagons  full  of  provisions,  sixty  oxen,  and  near  two 
hundred  sheep,  the  kind  presents  of  the  Dutch  settlers. 
On  the  29th  they  passed  the  last  inhabited  house  in 
Roggeveld,  and  found  the  country  a  perfect  desert,  without 
a  blade  of  grass.  After  travelling  seven  days  without 
meeting   a    human    being,  on    August  3    they   arrived   at 


520    OTHER  PIONEER  MISSIONS  IN  SOUTH  AFRICA 

a  spot  where  a  few  Bushmen  resided,  three  of  whom 
visited  them.  They  crossed  the  Zak  River  the  next  day, 
and  on  July  6  fixed  on  a  spot  where  they  agreed  to 
settle,  and  called  it  Happy  Prospect  Fountain.  It  was 
near  two  fine  springs  of  water,  with  a  good  piece  of 
ground  for  cultivation,  but  the  surrounding  country  was 
barren,  and  the  inhabitants  few. 

They  had  been  accompanied  by  Mr.  Fischer  and  other 
kind  friends,  who  were  obliged  to  leave  on  August  12, 
and  return  home.  But  they  soon  began  to  have  company, 
a  party  of  about  thirty  Bushmen  arriving  to  inquire  into 
the  reason  of  their  coming.  They  were,  at  first,  exceed- 
ingly shy,  but  small  presents  of  tobacco  presently  gained 
their  confidence^. 

Kicherer  was  probably  the  first  intelligent,  educated,  and 
sympathetic  European  who  lived  in  close  contact  for  many 
months  with  these  degraded  Bushmen,  under  circumstances 
most  favourable  not  only  for  observing  their  customs,  but 
also  for  gaining  some  knowledge  of  their  ideas  and  thoughts. 
His  observations,  duly  recorded  in  1800,  became  thus  of 
special  and  permanent  value  ^ : — 

'  Although  they  are  not  idolaters,  the  doctrine  of  a 
Supreme  Being  was  to  them  entirely  unknown  ;  and,  in 
one  word,  wc  found  them  resemble  the  brute  beasts,  with 
this  exception,  that  they  were  capable  of  instruction,  of 
learning  to  know  and  to  honour  a  deity,  which  also 
afterwards  appeared. 

'  Their  manner  of  living  is  very  horrible.  Their  dwelling 
and  resting  place  is  between  the  rocks,  where  they  dig 
a  round  den  of  about  three  feet  deep,  in  which  they  lie, 
with  their  whole  family.  This  den  is  sometimes  covered 
with  a  few  reeds,  to  shelter  them  from  the  wind  and  rain, 
which,  however,  seldom  answers  the  design,  as  they  are 
generally  soaked  through  by  the  first  shower.  They  mostly 
lie  down  and  sleep,  except  when  hunger  greatly  torments 
them;  then  they  go  a-hunting;  but  they  live  many  days 
without  any  food.      When  they  find   no  wild   beast,  then 

'   Transactions,  ii.  pp.  2-6.  '^  Ibid.  pp.  6-8. 


THE  BUSHMEN 


521 


they  make  shift  with  a  sort  of  small  wild  onions  and  wild 
potatoes,  which  the  women  seek,  but  never  the  men.  They 
are  content  to  eat  snakes  and  mice. 

'  Their  language  is  so  very  difficult  to  learn  that  no  one 
can  spell  or  write  the  same.  It  consists  mostly  of  a  clicking 
with  the  tongue.  By  a  kind  direction  of  Providence,  we 
have  in  our  service  two  interpreters,  who  are  a  bastard 
Hottentot  and  his  wife.  They  are  natives  of  the  Bosche- 
men's  land  ;  but  have  served  under  Christians,  and  have 
learned  the  Dutch  language. 

'  They  are  total  strangers  to  domestic  happiness.  The 
men  have  several  wives,  but  conjugal  affection  is  little 
known.  They  take  no  great  care  of  their  children,  and 
never  correct  them  except  in  a  fit  of  rage,  when  they 
almost  kill  them  by  severe  usage.  In  a  quarrel  between 
father  and  mother,  or  the  several  wives  of  a  husband,  the 
defeated  party  wreaks  his  or  her  revenge  on  the  child  of 
the  conqueror,  which  in  general  loses  its  life.  Tame 
Hottentots  seldom  destroy  their  offspring,  except  in  a  fit 
of  passion  ;  but  the  Boschemen  will  kill  their  children 
without  remorse  on  various  occasions,  as  when  they  are 
ill-shaped,  when  they  are  in  want  of  food,  when  the 
father  of  a  child  has  forsaken  its  mother,  or  when  obliged 
to  flee  from  the  farmers  or  others  ;  in  which  case  they  will 
strangle  them,  smother  them,  cast  them  away  in  the  desert, 
or  bury  them  alive. 

*  The  Boschemen  frequently  forsake  their  aged  relations 
when  removing  from  place  to  place  for  the  sake  of  hunting. 
In  this  case  they  leave  the  old  person  with  a  piece  of  meat, 
and  an  ostrich  eggshell  full  of  water :  as  soon  as  this  little 
stock  is  exhausted,  the  poor  deserted  creature  must  perish 
by  hunger,  or  become  the  prey  of  wild  beasts.  Many  of 
these  wild  Hottentots  live  by  plunder  and  murder,  and  are 
guilty  of  the  most  horrid  and  atrocious  actions.' 

The  way  in  which  the  work  of  the  mission  was  done  is 
thus  described  ' : — 

'  Our  days  are  spent  in  the  following  manner : — About 

^  Transactions,  ii.  pp.  9-12. 


522    OTHER  PIONEER  MISSIONS  IN  SOUTH  AFRICA 

the  time  of  sun-rising  we  collect  together  for  prayer,  when 
we  read  the  Scriptures  and  sing  a  hymn ;  then  the  elderly 
people  depart,  and  the  business  of  the  school  commences. 
We  teach  the  younger  people  to  spell  and  read  Dutch.  In 
the  mean  time  our  provision  is  prepared  by  a  Boscheman 
girl.  School  being  over,  we  proceed  to  our  manual  labour, 
such  as  gardening,  building,  &c.  About  noon  we  dine, 
and  the  afternoon  passes  away  in  the  same  occupations  as 
the  forenoon.  Evening  arriving,  we  conclude  our  day  by 
prayer,  singing  hymns,  and  communicating,  in  the  plainest 
manner  we  can,  the  knowledge  of  divine  things.' 

In  January,  1800,  Kicherer  found  it  necessary  to  take 
a  journey  to  Cape  Town,  for  the  purpose  of  procuring 
supplies.     He  wrote  in  his  journal : — 

•  Soon  after  our  arrival  at  Cape  Town,  I  was  called  to 
preach  at  the  Calvinist  Church,  a  very  capacious  building, 
then  overflowing  with  a  very  genteel  auditory.  My 
Boschemen,  accompanying  me,  were  greatly  struck  with 
the  large  number  of  well-dressed  people,  whom,  in  their 
simplicity,  they  compared  to  a  nest  of  ants ;  and  the 
sound  of  the  organ  was  at  first  mistaken  by  them  for  the 
noise  of  a  swarming  bee-hive.  From  that  time  they  enter- 
tained a  higher  opinion  of  their  minister ;  for,  before,  they 
had  been  tempted  to  consider  me  as  a  beggarly  fellow,  who 
had  come  among  them  merely  to  obtain  a  livelihood.' 

Soon  after  Kicherer's  return  Kramer  went  for  a  time  to 
the  Hex  River ;  Edwards  left  the  mission,  and  soon  ceased 
to  have  any  connection  with  the  Society  ;  while  Kicherer 
and  a  friend  of  his  named  Scholtz  removed  nearer  to  the 
Zak  River.  Meanwhile  the  Directors  in  London,  in  con- 
junction with  their  fellow-workers  in  Holland,  had  been 
taking  active  measures  to  strengthen  the  South  African 
Mission.  On  April  10,  j  800,  four  missionaries  sailed  for  the 
Cape,  landing  there  in  September.  Two  were  Englishmen  : 
William  Anderson  and  James  Read.  Two  were  Dutchmen  : 
Bastian  Tromp  and  A.  A.  Vanderlingen.  At  the  time  of  their 
arrival  Kicherer  happened  to  be  at  the  Cape,  and  it  was 
finally  settled  that  Anderson  should  return  with  him  and 


AFRICANER  523 

attempt  to  begin  Christian  work  among  the  Corannas, 
tribes  inhabiting  the  banks  of  the  Orange  River  to  the 
north  of  the  Karroo,  whose  chiefs  had  repeatedly  asked  for 
teachers.  They  left  Cape  Town  on  February  10,  ]8oi, 
and  reached  the  Zak  River  five  weeks  later.  Leaving  the 
Zak  River  on  March  25,  Anderson  reached  the  Orange 
River  on  April  .5,  and  finally  selected  as  his  station  a  spot 
he  called  Rich  Fountain,  three  days'  journey  north  of  the 
Orange  River.  In  IMay,  1801,  Kicherer  and  his  colleagues 
came  from  the  Zak  River  to  Rich  Fountain.  His  narrative 
of  this  visit  is  of  interest  as  giving  us  the  first  sketch  re- 
ceived in  England  of  the  notorious  Africaner,  and  also  the 
first  references  to  the  great  Bechwana  tribes. 

'We  soon  found  ourselves  surrounded  by  crowds  of  dif- 
ferent people — Korannas,  Namaquas,  Hottentots,  Bastard 
Hottentots,  and  Boschemen,  together  with  their  numerous 
flocks  and  herds.  The  Korannas  and  Namaquas  lived 
servants  to  the  Bastards,  having  been  reduced  to  this 
abject  condition  by  the  depredations  of  a  monster,  known 
by  the  name  of  the  "  African,"  a  Bastard  Hottentot.  This 
bloody  man,  having  murdered  Penaar,  his  master,  collected 
a  band  of  robbers,  with  whom  he  made  incursions  into  the 
Namaqua  and  Koranna  countries.  Some  of  these  poor 
timid  people  sent  him  a  message,  requesting  that  he  would 
restore  a  little  part  of  their  property,  at  least  a  cow  for 
each  family,  that  they  might  have  a  drop  of  milk  for  their 
starving  children.  The  wretch  promised  to  comply  with 
their  wishes  on  condition  that  they  would  cross  the  river, 
and  fetch  the  animals  ;  but  when  they  came  he  treacher- 
ously tied  them  to  the  trees,  cut  out  their  tongues,  or  other- 
wise maimed  them  :  some  of  them  he  shot  dead.  Being 
thus  reduced  to  extreme  poverty,  they  were  glad  for  the 
sake  of  subsistence  to  serve  the  Bastards,  who  treated  them 
with  great  severity,  flogging  and  abusing  them  like  slaves, 
and  allowing  little  more  for  their  support  than  the  milk 
of  the  sheep  which  they  kept.  This  horrid  monster,  the 
"African,"  understanding  something  of  Colonial  politics, 
has  hitherto  contrived  to  evade  deserved  punishment.' 


524    OTHER  PIONEER  MISSIONS  IN  SOUTH  AFRICA 

It  soon  became  evident  to  the  missionaries  that  the 
establishment  of  permanent  mission  stations  would  be 
a  matter  of  great  difficulty.  The  character  of  the  country, 
the  climate,  the  habits  and  customs  of  the  different  tribes 
of  natives  were  all  adverse  to  settled  life.  Hence  it  is  not 
easy  to  gain  accurate  conceptions  of  the  movements  of  the 
mission  at  this  period.  By  March,  1802,  Kicherer  was 
convinced  that  it  was  needful  to  divide  the  mission  once 
again,  as  '  the  produce  of  the  land  was  insufficient  for  the 
support  of  our  numerous  cattle,'  and  so  he  returned  to  his 
old  station,  the  Zak  River. 

Kramer  had  been  left,  with  Anderson  as  his  colleague,  at 
Rich  Fountain.  In  June,  1802,  they  removed  eight  days' 
journey  lower  down  the  Orange  River  to  a  place  called 
Kok's  Kraal.  The  work  was  successful  chiefly  among  the 
Hottentots  and  Bastard  Hottentots  ;  but  the  missionaries 
were  never  able  to  make  much  impression  upon  the  wild 
and  degraded  Bushmen. 

In  January,  1803,  Kicherer,  for  family  reasons,  found  it 
necessary  to  return  to  Holland,  and  determined  to  take 
with  him  three  of  his  converted  Hottentots.  Their  presence 
in  London  aroused  the  deepest  interest  in  the  work  begun 
among  their  brethren,  and  became  a  powerful  stimulus 
to  the  interest  felt  in  the  African  Mission  by  friends  and 
supporters  in  Great  Britain. 

On  October  21,  1804,  Kicherer  sailed  from  Amsterdam 
for  the  Cape.  He  was  accompanied  by  his  three  Hotten- 
tots, and  six  new  missionary  colleagues.  They  were  nearly 
wrecked  off  the  Scilly  Isles,  but  reached  Cape  Town  safely 
on  January  19,  1805.  From  a  letter  dated  '  Heck's  River, 
September  16,  1805,'  Kicherer  seems  to  have  paid  a  flying 
visit  to  the  station  which  had  been  left  in  charge  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  A.  Vos  and  Mr.  Botma,  where  he  found  matters  unsatis- 
factory owing  to  the  difficulty  which  the  Hottentots  found 
in  maintaining  themselves.  In  the  same  letter  the  following 
significant  sentence  appears :—' You  have  already  heard 
that  I  am  married  to  the  widow  Hubart  since  May  26, 
1805,  and  that  she  has  given  herself  completely  under  my 


MISSION  TO   THE   GRIQUAS  525 

direction,  and  her  wishes  are  to  do  good  with  her  property 
among  the  heathen.'  Whether  this  event  had  any  deter- 
mining influence  or  not  we  do  not  know,  but  before  the 
end  of  the  year  Kicherer  accepted  from  the  Dutch  Govern- 
ment the  appointment  as  pastor  at  Graaff  Reinet,  and 
so  disappears  from  the  mission  staff  The  temptation  to 
accept  these  posts  was  very  great,  and  so  important  did 
Vanderkemp  feel  this  matter  to  be  that  on  July  29,  1806, 
he  wrote  a  long  letter  to  the  Directors  on  the  danger  of 
men  sent  out  as  missionaries  becoming  '  country  clergy- 
men,' that  is,  ministers  of  settled  congregations. 

The  difficulties  of  maintaining  the  Zak  River  Station 
arising  from  drought,  Bushmen,  marauders,  and  other  causes, 
were  so  great  that  in  1806  it  was  abandoned.  Mr.  Vos 
wrote  under  date  of  August  14,  1806  :  'This  day  we  leave 
Zak  River,  the  place  which  has  cost  us  so  many  sighs, 
tears,  and  drops  of  sweat ;  the  place  in  which  we  laboured 
so  many  days  and  nights  for  the  salvation  of  immortal 
souls.'  The  work  ceased,  but  its  fruit  remained.  Many 
years  later  Robert  Moffat  wrote  that  Kicherer  and  Kramer's 
labours  were  signally  blessed  in  the  conversion  of  Hottentots 
'  from  whose  lips  the  writer  has  frequently  heard  with 
delight  the  records  of  bygone  years  \' 

2.  The  Mission  to  the  Griquas  at  Klaar  Water 
OR  Griqua  Town. — During  Kicherer  s  visit  to  Europe 
Anderson  and  Kramer  had  continued  steadily  at  work. 
They  had  removed  from  Kok's  Kraal  to  a  station  called 
Klaar  Water.  This  station  was  further  to  the  east,  and 
some  little  distance  from  the  north  bank  of  the  Orange 
River.  There  Anderson  and  Kramer  laboured  in  the  face 
of  even  greater  difficulties  than  those  encountered  at  Zak 
River.  Anderson  was  made  of  sterner  stuff  than  Kicherer. 
Writing  on  August  22,  1806,  he  says: — 

'We  have  for  the  last  six  years  denied  ourselves  many 
comforts  and  necessities  of  life,  and  applied  the  money 
taken  up  for  things  more  immediately  touching  the  Mission. 

^  Missionary  Labours  and  Scenes,  p.  50. 


526    OTHER  PIONEER  MISSIONS  IN  SOUTH  AFRICA 

The  reason  of  our  not  writing  oftener  was,  not  being  willing, 
upon  uncertain  ground,  to  elevate  the  spirits  of  our  dear 
brethren  and  sisters  in  Europe ;  but  though  they  have  long 
waited,  blessed  be  God  they  have  not  waited  in  vain.  O  no  ! 
I  would  not  exchange  my  Mission  for  any  in  Africa.  We 
have  been  enabled  to  endure  a  severe  storm  ;  our  Blessed 
Redeemer  was  with  us.  O  that  He  may  keep  us  humble, 
faithful,  and  diligent ! ' 

This  mission  soon  passed  through  troublous  times.  In 
April,  1805,  an  epidemic  of  smallpox  carried  off  a  great 
many,  and  in  May  of  that  year  Anderson  nearly  died  of 
fever.  Happily  at  this  juncture  Lambert  Janz  arrived  as 
his  colleague,  and,  aided  by  his  care,  Anderson  was  enabled 
to  reg-ain  stren<jth.  The  routine  work  of  the  station  was 
carried  on  steadily  through  1806  and  1807.  In  October 
of  the  latter  year  Kramer  left  for  the  Cape,  and  in  March, 
1809,  Anderson  followed  him,  and  for  a  long  period  Janz 
was  left  alone  at  Klaar  Water.  Though  alarmed  by 
constant  rumours  of  danger  from  the  warlike  Kafirs,  he 
continued  steadily  at  his  post.  Kramer  and  Anderson 
returned  to  Klaar  Water  in  September,  181 1.  There 
Mrs.  Kramer  died  in  181 2,  and  in  1815  Kramer  removed 
to  Bosjesfeld,  his  connection  with  the  Society  then  ceasing. 
Janz  died  January  14,  1815,  and  Anderson  carried  on  the 
work  till  1820.  Klaar  Water,  as  we  shall  see  later  on, 
became  widely  known  under  the  name  of  Griqua  Town. 

3.  The  Mission  to  the  Namaquas. — The  next  ex- 
tension of  work,  in  point  of  time,  in  South  Africa  was  due 
partly  to  the  remarkable  group  of  missionaries  who  went 
out  with  Kicherer  in  1804.  and  partly  to  the  conditions  laid 
down  by  the  Dutch  Government.  These  practically 
compelled  intending  missionaries  to  labour  beyond  the 
boundaries  of  the  colony.  To  half  of  the  six  new  workers 
was  entrusted  the  work  of  founding  a  mission  among  the 
tribes  occupying  the  banks  of  the  Orange  River  between 
its  mouth  and  the  territory  of  the  Corannas.  The  land  on 
the  south  bank  was  known  as  Little  Namaqualand  ;  on  the 


WARM  BATH  527 

north  as  Great  Namaqualand.  This  district  had  been 
selected  in  1798  as  that  in  which  to  begin  work,  although 
this  plan  was  afterwards  modified  by  Vanderkemp.  The 
pioneer  party  was  made  up  of  two  brothers,  Christian  and 
Abraham  Albrecht  and  John  Seidenfaden.  All  three  were 
Dutchmen,  trained  in  Holland,  and  selected  by  the  Nether- 
lands Society.  They  left  Cape  Town,  May  22,  1805,  and  in 
January,  1806,  reached  the  Orange  River  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  the  place  afterwards  known  as  Warm  Bath.  It  was 
a  season  of  drought.  They  all  endured  very  great  hard- 
ships and  had  much  difficulty  in  obtaining  the  barest 
necessaries  of  life.  Christian  Albrecht  indeed  had  to  go 
to  Cape  Town  early  in  1806  to  obtain  provisions.  They 
had  selected  as  their  place  of  residence  a  region  in  which 
there  were  two  good  fountains,  which  they  immediately 
named  Happy  Deliverance  and  Silent  Hope.  They  did 
not  know  at  this  time  that  they  were  thus  becoming 
near  neighbours  of  the  notorious  Africaner.  Terrified  and 
anxious  when  first  made  aware  of  this,  they  yet  showed 
both  their  mettle  and  their  fitness  for  work.  Christian 
Albrecht,  under  date  May  18,  1806,  thus  writes  to  friends 
at  Rotterdam  : — 

'  And  when  I  observed  that  there  was  not  any  convenient 
place  for  our  Mission  but  in  their  vicinity,  I  was  very  much 
distressed  ;  I  wished  to  have  been  able  to  proceed  further, 
but,  on  account  of  the  fatigues  already  suffered,  and  which 
had  entirely  exhausted  us,  we  could  not  go  to  a  greater 
distance.  The  Lord  himself  put  a  stop  to  our  going  farther. 
When  I  reflected  on  this,  I  asked  myself,  Why  have  you 
made  this  perilous  journey?  To  which  I  must  answer.  In 
order  that  we  may  make  known  the  gospel  to  ignorant 
sinners.  Well,  these  people  are  very  great  sinners  ;  and 
they  tell  me  they  wish  for  a  better  conduct,  and  for  instruc- 
tion in  the  way  of  salvation  ^.' 

In  common  with  the  other  early  missionaries  the 
Albrechts  sent  home  long  descriptions  of  the  people 
among  whom  they  laboured,  and  these  descriptions  have 

'  Transactions,  iii.  p.  31. 


528    OTHER  PIONEER  MISSIONS  IN  SOUTH  AFRICA 

now  an  ethnographical  value,  imperfect  and  immature  as 
they  sometimes  are.  Here  is  the  picture  of  place  and 
people  drawn  in  1806  by  A.  Albrecht  ^  : — 

'  The  country  has  no  regular  succession  of  seasons,  nor 
can  we  depend  upon  a  rainy  season  every  year,  as  in  other 
parts  of  the  Cape  colony  ;  but  it  is  by  thunder-storms  that 
the  country  is  watered  occasionally.  Whenever  such 
occasional  showers  of  rain,  accompanied  by  heavy  thunder 
and  lightning,  happen  to  fall,  the  country  immediately  is 
covered  with  grass  ;  whilst,  perhaps,  at  a  short  distance 
from  the  track  of  the  thunder-storm,  not  a  green  leaf  is  to 
be  seen.     The  country  produces  no  large  trees  or  timber. 

'  The  natives  of  this  country  are  much  like  the  Hottentots ; 
their  complexion,  however,  is  rather  darker.  They  seem 
also  to  speak  the  same  language.  Some  of  the  men  are  very 
stout  and  tall ;  and  some  appear  to  arrive  to  a  considerable 
old  age.  The  whole  nation  is  divided  into  different  tribes, 
each  of  them  distinguished  by  a  particular  name,  and  gov- 
erned by  a  chief  Their  usual  food  is  milk  and  meat  ;  but 
some  of  them,  who  are  so  poor  as  to  have  no  cattle  at  all, 
are  obliged  to  live  on  the  gum  which  they  gather  from  the 
kameel  doom  (a  inimosa),  upon  the  bulbs  and  roots  growing 
spontaneously,  and  upon  wild  honey.  The  natives  hunt  the 
smaller  species  of  bucks,  and  kill  them  with  arrows,  or  assa- 
gays ;  but  the  larger  game  they  sometimes  catch  in  holes, 
which  they  dig  near  the  wells  of  fresh  water. 

'  For  clothing,  they  make  use  of  karosses,  made  of  sheep- 
skins. Five  or  six  skins  are  requisite  to  make  a  kaross, 
which  is  worn  the  woolly  side  next  the  skin,  and  also  serves 
as  a  cover  during  the  night,  but  is  thrown  aside  in  summer. 
At  this  time  of  the  year  the  men  go  quite  naked,  except 
a  small  piece  of  a  jackal's  skin.  The  women  are  clothed 
with  sheep-skin  karosses,  like  the  men;  but,  like  them, 
throw  them  off  in  summer,  and  wear  only  a  small  apron  of 
skin.  Their  social  pleasures  consist  almost  exclusively  in 
dancing  ;  but,  what  is  curious,  only  the  men  are  the  per- 
formers at  a  dancing  party.  The  dancing  consists  chiefly 
^  Transactions,  iii.  pp.  208-212. 


THE  NAMAOUAS  IN  1806  529 

in  jumping,  and  a  violent  shaking  of  the  whole  body,  to  the 
time  of  the  music.  The  music  is  made  by  whistles,  being 
cut  out  of  a  certain  reed,  and  turned  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
produce  a  musical  sound. 

'  The  work  in  which  the  men  are  employed  consists  in 
taking  care  of  the  cattle,  and  in  hunting.  The  task  of 
milking,  however,  is  chiefly  left  to  the  women  ;  because 
the  young  men,  as  soon  as  they  come  of  age,  think  it 
beneath  them  to  milk  a  cow,  and  would  even  be  banished 
out  of  the  society  of  men,  if  they  should  stoop  to  this  part 
of  domestic  employment. 

'  The  Kamaquas,  in  general,  seem  as  capable  of  improve- 
ment as  they  are  ready  to  listen  to  what  is  set  before  them 
with  that  view.  At  our  prayer-meetings  they  are  very 
attentive  ;  and  whenever  our  interpreters  succeed  in  con- 
veying to  their  minds  the  proper  meaning  and  strength 
of  what  we  speak  to  them  in  the  Dutch  language,  from 
Scripture,  it  seldom  fails  to  make  a  visible  impression  upon 
them.' 

During  1807  the  missionaries  were  hard  at  work  in 
Warm  Bath  and  the  neighbourhood  endeavouring  to 
acquire  influence  with  the  natives  and  to  consolidate  the 
mission.  Even  beyond  the  other  African  Missions  this 
proved  a  source  of  great  expenditure  to  the  Directors. 
The  long  wagon  journeys,  the  frequent  scarcity  of  food, 
the  difficult  conditions  of  life  in  such  a  land,  all  contributed 
to  swell  the  cost  of  working.  For  this  region  as  for  the 
South  Seas  the  Directors  still  cherished  the  delusive  hope 
that  their  workers  would  become  self-supporting.  '  You 
express  a  hope,'  the  missionaries  wrote  in  1808,  '  that  we 
may  soon  be  able  to  provide  for  our  own  subsistence  ; 
but  we  beg  leave  to  state  that  there  is  no  immediate 
prospect  of  it.  Much  as  we  study  economy,  experience 
teaches  us  that  the  needful  provision  for  each  person  will 
amount  to  no  less  than  300  Dutch  florins  annually  (about 
;^3o).  Yet  should  it  please  God  to  preserve  our  cattle 
from  misfortunes  we  hope  in  time  to  acquire  so  much  as  to 
be  able  to  provide  for  our  own  support.' 
I.  M  m 


530    OTHER  PIONEER  MISSIONS  IN  SOUTH  AFRICA 

By  the  end  of  1808  the  congregation  had  increased  to 
about  700,  consisting  of  ten  tribes  of  Namaquas^  Hottentots, 
and  Bastard  Hottentots.  The  people  seemed  so  willing  to 
be  taught,  and  were  yet  so  widely  scattered  that  the 
missionaries  wished  for  a  large  reinforcement.  Events  were 
soon  to  prove  the  fallacy  of  this  hopeful  view.  In  3809 
Seidenfaden  and  Tromp  were  appointed  to  open  a  new 
mission  at  Camies  Burg  (Khamiesberg).  This  left  the 
Albrechts  alone  at  Warm  Bath.  From  this  as  a  centre 
they  attempted  to  work  all  the  surrounding  kraals,  having 
given  up  the  plan  they  once  cherished  of  going  still  further 
north  towards  Damara  Land. 

In  1810  several  important  events  occurred.  On  July  30, 
Abraham  Albrecht,  who  had  for  some  time  been  in  de- 
clining health,  died  of  consumption  at  Koningberg,  the 
estate  of  Mr.  Botma.  On  August  5,  Christian  Albrecht, 
then  at  Cape  Town,  married  Miss  Burgman,  to  whom  he 
had  been  engaged  for  some  years,  and  of  whose  capacity 
and  usefulness  very  high  expectations  had  been  formed. 
On  August  \6  the  newly-married  couple  started  on  their 
toilsome  journey  to  Warm  Bath,  accompanied  by  their 
widowed  sister-in-law,  arriving  there  on  October  22. 
Mr.  Tromp  and  his  wife  were  there  to  welcome  them. 
Mrs.  C.  Albrecht  at  once  began  work  among  the  women 
and  children,  and  in  such  a  way  that  they  soon  said,  '  This 
is  our  sister.'  But  clouds  were  fast  settling  down  upon  the 
little  community.  In  the  journal  for  December  25,  1810, 
we  read  : — 

'This  very  week  we  experienced  the  first  symptoms  of 
threatening  calamities.  A  Hottentot  came  to  us  with  his 
whole  family,  being  obliged  to  fly  for  safety,  some  men 
having  by  force  taken  some  of  his  cattle,  pretending  that 
he  owed  these  to  them,  and  had  determined  to  kill  him. 
These  men  were  sons  of  the  African  plunderer,  whom  we 
have  mentioned  in  a  former  journal,  who  has  been  guilty  of 
so  many  barbarities.  On  receiving  this  intelligence,  I  was 
greatly  alarmed  and  distressed;  and  it  also  greatly  dis- 
quieted our  community.     Although  they  live  at  more  than 


AFRICANER'S  RAID  531 

two  days  journey  from  hence,  we  thought  it  necessary  to 
send  to  them,  that  we  might  enquire  into  the  cause  of  this 
wicked  conduct ;  but,  although  they  received  the  message, 
they  did  not  come,  perhaps  happily  for  me,  since  I  was 
afterwards  informed  that  they  intended  to  attempt  my  life.' 

During  1811  Africaner^  who  had  been  very  quiet  for 
some  years,  enraged  by  a  fraud  played  upon  him  by  a 
Hottentot  named  Hans  Drayer,  slew  him,  attacked  and 
robbed  Khamiesberg,  and  committed  many  outrages. 
This  action  on  Africaner's  part  at  once  threw  the  affairs 
of  the  mission  into  confusion.  '  For  a  whole  month  they 
were  in  constant  terror,  hourly  expecting  the  threatened 
attack.  On  one  occasion  they  dug  square  holes  in  the 
ground,  about  six  feet  deep,  that  in  case  of  an  attack  they 
might  escape  the  balls ;  there  they  remained  buried  alive 
for  the  space  of  a  week,  having  the  tilt  of  a  sail  thrown 
over  the  pit  to  keep  off  the  burning  rays  of  an  almost 
vertical  sun  ^' 

In  the  midst  of  these  anxieties  Albrecht  was  cheered  by 
the  news  that  of  the  six  new  missionaries  who  had  just 
reached  the  Cape,  four — Sass,  Helm.  Ebner  (who  had 
married  his  brother's  widow),  and  Schmelen — were  ap- 
pointed his  colleagues.  But  before  these  could  reach  him 
the  difficulties  and  danger  connected  with  Africaner  com- 
pelled Albrecht  and  his  fellow  workers  to  visit  Cape  Town 
and  appeal  for  assistance  to  Lord  Caledon,  the  governor. 

The  missionaries  stayed  at  the  Cape  for  some  months, 
and  during  their  absence  Warm  Bath  was  destroyed.  In 
December,  1811,  they  began  their  return  journey,  which 
proved  one  of  very  great  hardship.  On  April  7,  181 2, 
they  reached  Kok's  Kraal,  and  there  on  April  13  Mrs. 
Albrecht  died.  She  was  a  lady  of  high  attainments,  rich 
spiritual  experience,  and  intense  missionary  enthusiasm. 
This  had  been  kindled  by  Vanderkcmp,  and  after  several 
years  of  anticipation  and  preparation  the  desire  of  her 
heart  seemed  fully  gratified  when  she  reached  Warm  Bath. 
But  she  had  been  permitted  to  labour  there  happily  and 

*  Missionary  Labours  and  Seems ^  p.  87  (1842). 
M  m  2 


532    OTHER  PIONEER  MISSIONS  IN  SOUTH  AFRICA 

successfully  for  only  a  few  months  when  Africaner's  hos- 
tility drove  away  the  members  of  the  mission,  causing  them 
great  anxiety  and  suffering.  Her  early  death  was  a  severe 
loss  to  the  mission. 

The  period  we  have  now  reached  marks  the  close  of  the 
first  or  pioneer  epoch  in  South  African  missionary  work. 
Warm  Bath  had  been  destroyed,  and  finally  C.  Albrecht, 
Schmelen,  Sass,  and  Ebner  resumed  work  at  Khamiesberg, 
about  three  days'  journey  from  Warm  Bath.  Meanwhile 
at  Klaar  Water  mission  work  was  being  steadily  carried 
on,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Sass  were  stationed  at  Silver  Fountain, 
where  in  1813  Mrs.  Sass  died. 

Up  to  this  date  the  work  had  been  mainly  experimental. 
Large  numbers  of  Hottentots,  Bushmen,  Corannas,  Kafirs, 
and  members  of  other  tribes  had  been  evangelized. 
Educational  work  had  been  commenced  in  many  parts. 
The  Dutch  churches  throughout  the  Colony  had  received 
a  great  stimulus,  and  at  Cape  Town  much  useful  work 
among  the  soldiers,  the  inhabitants,  the  slaves  and  occa- 
sional visitors,  had  been  accomplished  from  time  to  time 
by  the  missionaries  who  were  either  stationed  there,  or  else 
resident  for  a  time  while  proceeding  to  or  on  furlough  from 
their  stations. 

[Authorities.— Letters  and  Official  Reports;   Transactions  of  the  Society, 
vols.  ii.  and  iii.] 


CHAPTER   XIX 

THE    CLOSE    OF    THE    PIONEER    PERIOD 

The  necessity  for  an  official  head  at  the  Cape,  so  strongly 
urged  upon  the  Directors  by  Dr.  Vanderkemp,  was  at  length 
clearly  recognized  by  them,  and  in  1 812  the  Rev.  John 
Campbell  was  sent  out  as  a  deputation  to  visit  the  stations  in 
South  Africa,  to  select  sites  for  new  centres  of  work,  and  to 
report  to  the  Board  on  the  state  of  the  mission  generally. 
His  journey  was  one  of  the  most  remarkable  in  earl)- 
African  traveP.  Leaving  Cape  Town  on  February  13. 
1813,  ^^^  ^^st  visited  Bethelsdorp,  whence  he  journeyed 
some  short  distance  into  Kafirland,  choosing  in  Zuurfeld, 
near  the  Great  Fish  River,  the  sites  for  two  new  stations. 
Thence  he  passed  to  Graaff  Rcinet,  journeying  on  in  most 
adventurous  fashion  till  he  came  to  Klaar  Water.  Accom- 
panied by  Anderson,  he  travelled  to  Lattakoo.  had  an 
interview  with  the  king,  Mothibi,  who,  after  being  told 
why  missionaries  wished  to  settle  among  his  people,  said, 
'  Send  them,  and  I  will  be  a  father  unto  them.'  During 
this  visit  also  Campbell  received  important  information  about 
the  hitherto  unknown  Bechwana  tribes.  After  a  six  weeks' 
journey  of  exploration  down  the  Orange  River,  Campbell 
returned  to  Klaar  Water,  and  then  proceeded  to  Little 
Namaqualand,  visiting  Albrecht,  Schmelen,  and  Ebner. 
Thence  he  returned  to  the  Cape.     He  reached  London  in 

'  A  full   account   of  this  journey  was  published  in  1815    under    the   title 
Travels  in  South  Africa^  by  John  Campbell. 

1.  '  t 


534        THE   CLOSE  OF  THE  PIONEER  PERIOD 

May,  icSi4.  This  visit  led  to  important  developments  in 
the  home  administration  of  the  African  Mission,  and  also 
ultimately  to  the  wide  extension  of  missionary  labour  in 
Bechwanaland. 

Immediately  after  Mr.  Campbell's  visit  serious  troubles, 
which  had  long  existed  in  various  parts  of  the  South 
African  Mission,  began  to  attract  public  attention  and 
comment.  These  were  due,  as  by  far  the  larger  portion  of 
really  serious  troubles  in  missionary  work  usually  are,  to 
defective  mental  and  moral  qualities  in  some  of  the  workers. 
To  understand  the  position  in  i8i5the  condition  of  life  and 
opinion  in  Cape  Colony  must  be  kept  well  in  view. 
Missionary  effort  had  thrust  itself  into  the  Colony,  unwel- 
comed  from  the  first  by  a  large  portion  of  the  community. 
It  was  bitterly  opposed  later  on  by  the  same  section,  as 
soon  as  they  began  to  realize  the  effect  of  Christianity 
upon  slavery,  upon  Hottentot  oppression,  and  the  light  it 
threw  upon  their  own  lives  and  actions.  The  missionaries 
often  had  reason  to  be  grateful  to  the  successive  governors 
of  the  Colony  and  to  various  high  officials  for  permission 
to  work,  and  for  both  toleration  and  protection  in  their 
labours  ;  but  the  Government  kept  a  sharp  eye  upon  them, 
was  always  more  than  ready  to  criticize  their  action,  and 
not  unfrequently,  from  policy  which  was  anything  but 
Christian,  was  not  unwilling  to  limit  and  restrain  missionary 
effort.  Many  also  of  the  early  missionaries  were  men  of 
poor  education  and  imperfect  spiritual  development,  and 
hence  it  is  not  surprising  that  in  a  few  cases  their  conduct 
should  have  been  such  as  to  justify  the  severest  condemna- 
tion. 

An  additional  element  of  difficulty  was  the  presence 
among  the  missionaries  of  two  distinct  types  of  workers. 
One  of  these  was  wholly  devoted  to  the  evangelization  of 
the  downtrodden  natives.  They  would  have  nothing 
whatever  to  do  with  the  constant  attempts  made  to  draw 
them  into  the  service  of  the  settled  colonial  churches, 
except  in  so  far  as  without  interfering  with  what  they  con- 
sidered their  first  duty,  they  could  aid  and  benefit  these 


DIFFICULTIES  IN   THE  MISSION  535 

different  communities.  The  other  type  admitted  theoreti- 
cally the  claims  of  the  natives  upon  their  sympathy  and 
labour,  but  as  a  matter  of  fact  they  held  that  the  more 
important  and  pressing  duty  was  to  Christianize  the 
colonists  themselves  before  attempting  to  evangelize  the 
ignorant  and  degraded  slaves  and  natives.  Some  workers 
of  the  first  class,  among  whom  we  number  such  men  as 
Vanderkemp,  James  Read,  Lambert  Janz,  and  others,  did 
not  scruple,  if  the  occasion  arose,  to  ally  themselves  in 
marriage  with  converted  native  women.  This  gave  deadly 
offence  to  the  ordinary  white  population  of  the  Colony,  and 
was  looked  askance  upon  by  such  of  their  colleagues  as 
were  ministers  of  settled  churches.  This  condition  of  affairs, 
combined  with  the  great  distance  from  London,  the  tardy 
means  of  communication,  and  consequent  imperfect  control 
on  the  part  of  the  Directors,  will  explain  the  presence  of 
some  unpleasant  pages  in  South  African  mission  story. 

On  October  24,  1812,  there  arrived  at  Cape  Town  the 
Rev.  George  Thom,  who  was  on  his  way  to  India,  having 
been  appointed  to  that  field.  At  the  request  of  some  of 
the  military  authorities  he  was  led  to  remain  at  the  Cape, 
and  to  give  himself  to  Christian  work  among  the  soldiers 
and  the  residents  of  Cape  Town,  and  to  itinerate  in  the 
Colony.  In  a  short  time  Thom  became,  mainly  from  the 
fact  of  his  residence  at  the  Cape,  an  acting  general  superin- 
tendent of  the  mission.  His  correspondence  with  the 
Directors  is  still  extant,  and  after  a  careful  perusal  of  it 
the  impression  it  leaves  on  the  mind  is  that  Thom  was 
a  well-m.eaning  but  highly  opiniated  man,  more  eager  to 
listen  to  charges  against  his  brethren  than  to  sift  and  weigh 
carefully  the  evidence  upon  which  the  charges  were  based. 
He  animadverts  severely  upon  their  imperfect  educa- 
tion, he  denounces  vigorously  such  as  married  Hottentot 
wives,  he  draws  a  most  gloomy  picture  of  Bcthelsdorp  and 
its  influence,  and  he  attacked  Campbell  and  his  work 
almost  as  soon  as  that  gentleman  had  left  the  Cape.  The 
most  serious  of  his  charges  were  those  which  affirmed 
immorality  against   James  Read   and  several  others.      In 


536        THE  CLOSE  OF  THE  PIONEER  PERIOD 

some  cases  for  these  charges  there  was  undoubtedly  com- 
plete justification.  In  Read's  case,  while  he  was  absent  at 
Lattakoo,  and  unable  either  to  hear  or  reply  to  the  charges, 
an  ex  parte  investigation,  in  which  Thorn  was  the  chief 
mover,  took  place  at  the  Cape.  Read  was  suspended,  and 
at  the  first  this  decision  w^as  confirmed  by  the  Directors. 
He  was,  however,  finally  restored  to  full  work  and  standing, 
and  continued  for  many  years  one  of  the  most  effective,  as 
he  had  been  one  of  the  earliest,  workers  in  South  Africa. 
Mr.  Thom  had  spent  hardly  as  many  months  in  Africa  as 
Read  had  passed  years  when  he  not  only  sent  home 
these  charges  but  affirmed  his  own  belief  in  them. 
Mr.  Campbell,  who  had  journeyed  long  months  in  Read's 
society,  who  had  visited  Bethelsdorp  and  carefully  studied 
the  work  there,  refused  to  accept  the  charges  as  true 
without  much  better  evidence  than  Mr.  Thom  produced. 
And  any  careful  reader  who  now  goes  through  the  not 
very  edifying  correspondence  will  feel  that  in  Mr.  Thom's 
case  zeal  outran  discretion,  and  that  his  comparative  inex- 
perience, and  his  very  evident  sympathy  with  Cape  Town 
opinion,  unfitted  him  for  wisely  judging  the  state  of  affairs 
at  Bethelsdorp  and  elsewhere.  But  his  correspondence  led 
t)  the  important  step  taken  by  the  Board  in  1818,  when 
Mr.  Campbell  was  sent  out  to  visit  a  second  time  all  the 
African  stations,  and  when  there  accompanied  him  the 
able  man  who  in  1820  became  permanent  Superintendent 
of  the  African  Mission  at  Cape  Town—  Dr.  Philip  of  Aber- 
deen. Mr.  Thom's  connection  with  the  Society  was  brief. 
In  1 81 8  he  accepted  the  pastorate  of  the  Dutch  church  at 
Caledon,  and  disappears  from  the  Society's  records. 

Before  sketching  the  extensions  of  work  immediately 
undertaken  it  may  be  well  to  take  a  bird's-eye  view  of  the 
stations  superintended  by  the  agents  of  the  Society  in 
1818.     These  were — 

I.  Bethelsdorp,  about  500  miles  east  of  Cape  Town, 
founded  in  1802,  and  occupied  by  J.  G.  Messer,  Evan 
Evans,  and  F.  G.  Hooper.  In  1818  the  settlement  con- 
sisted in  all  of  about  i,coo  Hottentots. 


STATIONS   OCCUPIED  IN  ISIS  537 

2.  Griqua  Town  (1802),  formerly  Klaar  Water,  near  the 
Orange  River,  about  700  miles  north-east  of  Cape  Town. 
Occupied  in  1818  by  William  Anderson  and  Henry  Helm, 
with  four  native  assistants. 

3.  Stellenbosch  ^  (1802),  twenty-six  miles  east  of  Cape 
Town,  occupied  by  J.  Bakkcr  as  missionary  to  a  large 
number  of  slaves  and  Hottentots  resident  there. 

4.  Tulbagh  \  formerly  Rodezand,  forty  miles  north-east 
of  Cape  Town,  with  Arie  Vos  and  Cornelius  Kramer  as 
missionaries. 

5.  Bethesda  (1808),  formerly  Orlam's  Kraal,  about  700 
miles  north-east  of  Cape  Town,  near  the  Orange  River, 
between  Griqua  Town  and  Pella ;  missionary,  Christopher 
Sass. 

6.  Caledon  Institution  (181 1),  about  120  miles  east  from 
Cape  Town,  occupied  by  J.  Siedenfaden.  This  place  must 
be  distinguished  from  the  town  of  Caledon.  The  mission- 
station  was  at  Zuurbraak,  some  little  distance  to  the  east 
of  Swellendam. 

7.  Hooge  Kraal  (1813),  afterwards  Pacaltsdorp,  about 
300  miles  east  of  Cape  Town,  occupied  by  Charles  Pacalt. 

8.  Theopolis  (1814),  about  600  miles  east  of  Cape  Town  ; 
missionaries,  J.  G.  Ullbricht  and  G.  Barker. 

9.  Thornberg,  or  Grace  Hill  (1814),  about  500  miles 
north  of  the  Cape.  Erasmus  Smit  was  the  missionary 
here. 

10.  Bethany,  in  Namaqualand,  formerly  Klip  Fountain, 
fifty-five  miles  north  of  the  Orange  River,  occupied  by 
H.  Schmelen  and  J.  Kitchingman. 

11.  Peace  Mountain  (1815),  formerly  Africaner's  Kraal; 
missionaries,  Pl.  Ebner  and  R.  Moffat. 

12.  Kaffraria  (1816),  700  miles  north-east  of  Cape  Town. 
Joseph  Williams  missionary,  assisted  by  Jan  Tzatzoe,  a 
Kafir. 

13.  Hephzibah  (18 16),  between  Griqua  Town  and  Graaff 
Reinet ;   missionaries,  W.  Y.  Corner  and  J.  Goeyman. 

>  These  stations,  although  they  constantly  appear  in  the  Society's  reports, 
seem  to  have  been  sustained  by  the  Rhenish  Missionary  Society. 


538        THE   CLOSE  OF  THE  PIONEER  PERIOD 

14.  Lattakoo  (1817)  ;  Robert  Hamilton  missionary. 

15.  Cape  Town,  George  Thom. 

The  work  carried  on  at  these  different  stations  varied, 
from  Thorn's,  which  was  that  of  a  settled  pastor,  to  that  of 
Williams  and  Moffat,  who  were  living  with  savages  in  the 
hope  of  gaining  their  goodwill,  and  ultimately  their  hearts 
for  Christ.  Bethelsdorp,  to  which  Hankey  was  soon  to  be 
added,  the  Caledon  Institution,  Pacaltsdorp,  and  Theopolis 
were  '  institutions '  possessing  special  rights,  and  affording 
the  natives  resident  there  special  protection.  Bethesda, 
Thornberg,  Bethany,  Peace  Mountain,  and  Hephzibah  were 
mission  out-stations.  A  glance  at  the  map  will  show  over 
.how  enormous  an  area  the  evangelistic  labours  of  the 
Society  had  spread  during  its  first  twenty  years  of  African 
service. 

[Authorities. — Letters  and  Official  Reports  ;  Trahsactions  of  the  Society, 
vols,  ii.-iv. ;   Travels  in  South  Africa,  by  John  Campbell,  1815.] 


CHAPTER   XX 

DR.   nilLIP'S   ADMINISTRATION:     1820-1850 

Dr.  Philip  landed  at  Cape  Town  on  Feb.  26,  1819.    The 
conditions  under  which  he  first  visited  Africa  were  these  : 

'  In  the  year  1818,  the  Directors  of  the  London  Missionary 
Society  felt  the  absolute  necessity  of  again  sending 
a  deputation  of  their  Society  to  South  Africa,  to  inves- 
tigate into  the  real  situation  of  their  missions,  and  into 
the  nature  of  the  allegations  urged  against  them  by  the 
colonial  government,  as  the  grounds  of  the  opposition 
made  to  them.  ^Ir.  Campbell  and  myself  were  nominated 
and  appointed  as  a  deputation  from  the  Society  for  this 
purpose.  He  was  to  make  a  visit,  and  return  to  England  ; 
and  I  agreed  to  remain  five  years  in  the  country,  that 
I  might  be  able  to  gain  a  more  thorough  knowledge  of  the 
actual  state  of  the  missions,  set  them  in  order,  and,  if 
possible,  secure  the  cordial  co-operation  of  the  colonial 
government  in  their  favour.  My  appointment,  and  that 
of  Mr.  Campbell,  for  these  specific  objects,  was  communi- 
cated by  a  deputation  from  the  Society  to  Lord  Bathurst, 
when  his  lordship  signified  his  approbation  of  the  measure, 
and  expressed  his  hope  that  our  mission  would  be  attended 
with  the  beneficial  results  anticipated  ^.' 

With  the  cordial  co-operation  of  the  governor,  Lord 
Charles  Somerset,  Mr.  Campbell  and  Dr.  Philip  were 
making  all  needful  preparations  in  J819  for  their  visit  of 

*  Kescai  cites  in  South  Africa,  i,  p.  aco. 


540      DR.   PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :  1S20-1S50 

inspection  to  the  mission-stations,  when  Moffat  arrived  at 
Cape   Town   with   the   notorious    Africaner  in   his   train. 
Dr.  Philip  had  lost  no  time  in  securing  a  central  site  for 
a  chapel  at  Cape  Town  and  in  obtaining  government  per- 
mission to  erect  suitable  buildings.     This  was  the  begin- 
ning of  Union  Chapel  in  which  for  so  many  years  he  was 
to  minister.     On   May  4,  181 9,  Campbell  and  Philip,  ac- 
companied by  the  missionaries  Moffat  and  Evan  Evans, 
started    on  their  long  journey.      They  visited  the   Paarl, 
Tulbagh,    Caledon    Institution,    Pacaltsdorp,    Bethelsdorp, 
and  Theopolis.     They  had  gone  thus  far  when  the  outbreak 
of  war   with    the  Kafirs   prevented   further  work  in  that 
direction.      So   Dr.  Philip   returned  to  Cape  Town,  while 
Mr.  Campbell,  in  January,  1820,  journeyed  with  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Moffat  to  New  Lattakoo,  visiting  also  some  of  the 
neighbouring  Bechwana  centres  of  population  ^.    Mr.  Camp- 
bell left  Cape  Town  on  Feb.  15,  1821,  and  landed  at  Ports- 
mouth on  May  9.     Meanwhile,  Dr.  Philip   completed  the 
arrangements  for  the  erection  of  Union  Chapel,  and  secured 
premises  as   part   of  the  same  establishment  to  serve  as 
a  dwelling  for  the   Society's  agent,  and  as  a  temporary 
home   for   the   many  missionaries    passing   through   Cape 
Town.     The   chapel  was  opened   for   public   worship   on 
Dec.  I,  1822. 

In  October,  1818,  the  Directors  had  issued  a  new  code 
of '  regulations  for  the  missions  in  Africa,'  two  of  which  we 
give  iji  exieiiso.  *  It  is  a  duty  which  the  Directors  owe  to 
the  great  cause  of  propagating  the  Gospel  among  the 
heathen,  no  less  than  to  the  Society  for  which  they  act,  to 
press  on  the  attention  of  all  their  missionaries  the  oblis^a- 
tion  of  finding  their  support  from  the  people  among  whom 
they  labour.  This  principle  is  of  the  greatest  importance, 
and  the  acting  upon  it  in  any  station  will  be  in  itself 
a  security  for  the  progress  of  the  Gospel  in  that  place.  But 
while  the  principle  is  kept  in  view,  so  long  as  the  circum- 

'  See  Travels  in  South  Africa,  2  vols.,  1822.  This  account  of  Mr.  Campbell's 
sccoDd  journey  is  full  of  attraction  for  students  of  South  African  missionary 
progress. 


PHILIP  APPOINTED  SUPERINTENDENT        541 

stances  of  particular  missions  shall  make  it  absolutely 
necessary,  the  Directors  will  afford  to  the  missionaries 
a  suitable  support.' 

'That  the  following  resolution  of  the  Board  on  May  23, 
1818,  be  adopted  as  one  of  the  present  Regulations  :  "  That 
to  keep  the  persons  of  men  or  women  in  a  state  of  slavery 
is  inconsistent  with  the  principles  of  the  Christian  religion, 
and  with  the  character  of  a  Christian  missionary  ;  and  that 
if  any  missionary  in  connection  with  this  Society  shall,  after 
the  communication  of  this  Resolution,  be  charcreable  with 
this  offence,  the  relation  between  such  person  and  this 
Society  is  by  that  act  dissolved,  and  all  obligation  on  the 
part  of  the  latter  to  contribute  to  his  support  immediately 
ceases. 

In  1 820  Dr.  Philip  was  appointed  by  the  Directors 
Superintendent  of  the  Society's  missions  in  South  Africa, 
and  upon  him  came  the  much-needed  work  of  consolidation, 
improvement  of  methods,  reform  of  abuses,  and  the  task  of 
welding  the  various  missions  into  a  harmonious  and  effec- 
tive whole.  This  appointment  was  an  event  of  great 
moment  to  the  after  history  of  both  the  Society's  work, 
and  also  of  the  Colony.  Dr.  Philip  was  in  the  prime  of 
life,  he  had  been  minister  of  one  of  the  most  important 
churches  in  Aberdeen,  and  he  was  a  man  of  cultured  mind, 
experienced  in  affairs,  of  independent  judgment,  and  of 
strong  will.  He  went  out  under  the  conviction,  then  com- 
mon in  England,  that  the  cruelties  and  oppression  from 
which  the  native  races  had  suffered  under  Dutch  rule  had 
been  largely  ameliorated  by  the  transfer  of  power  to 
England.  But  he  was  soon  undeceived,  and  he  had  hardly 
assumed  the  full  responsibilities  of  his  nevv  position  before 
he  began  that  course  of  ceaseless,  energetic,  and  successful 
toil  on  behalf  of  the  native  races,  which  made  him  for  long 
years  the  most  unpopular  man  in  South  Africa  among 
large  sections  of  the  colonists.  In  fact,  the  true  standard 
of  the  good  work  he  did,  and  the  vast  influence  he  exerted 
on  the  side  of  liberty,  justice  for  all,  and  true  progress,  is 
the  bitter  hate  with  which  those  pursued  him  whose  errors 


542      DR.  PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :  1S20-1850 

he  combated,  whose  cruelties  he  exposed,  whose  tyranny  he 
checked,  and  whose  vices  he  condemned. 

Before  turning  to.  the  great  extensions  of  work  under- 
taken subsequent  to  1820  in  Bechwanaland,  Matabeleland, 
and  Central  Africa,  we  will  complete  the  sketch  of  the 
work  attempted  within  the  Colony.  We  cannot  give  here 
a  detailed  account  of  the  struggle  which  resulted  first  in  the 
abolition  of  slavery  in  the  Colony,  then  in  the  curbing 
under  Lord  Glenelg  of  colonial  rapacity  and  indifference 
to  native  rights,  and  finally  in  the  settlement  of  the 
South  African  colonies  under  systems  of  government  and 
administration  which  were  no  longer  a  discredit  to  the 
British  name.  But  the  salient  points  at  least  must  be 
indicated  in  a  struggle  which  obtained  for  the  natives 
some  approximation  to  civil  rights,  which  largely  extended 
British  commerce,  which  planted  and  developed  civilization 
in  many  parts  of  Africa  long  years  before  it  would  other- 
wise have  reached  them,  and  which  has  carried  the  light  of 
the  Gospel  from  Cape  Town  to  Ujiji ;  and  from  the  mouth 
of  the  Orange  River  to  Madagascar. 

The  state  even  of  Cape  Town  at  this  time  may  be  judged 
from  a  letter,  dated  January  11,  1820,  sent  to  the  Directors 
by  Dr.  Philip,  in  which  he  states  '  there  are  at  this  moment 
above  7,000  slaves  in  Cape  Town,  and  of  that  number  there 
are  not  more  than  thirty-five  or  fifty  at  most  under 
Christian  instruction.'  The  same  letter  contains  the  state- 
ment that  slaves  were  punished  by  their  masters  for  going 
to  school,  and  also  this :  '  A  lady  who  resides  in  my  neigh- 
bourhood informed  me  that  she  had  seen  a  Hottentot 
servant  in  my  family  reading  her  Bible  ;  that  she  hoped 
I  would  take  the  Bible  from  her,  and  that  I  would  beat  her 
with  a  stick  the  next  time  I  found  her  with  a  Bible.'  The 
population  of  Cape  Town  at  the  end  of  1818  was— whites, 
7,460;  free  blacks,  1,905;  apprentices  (practically  slaves), 
810;  Hottentots,  536  ;  slaves,  7,462  ;  total,  18,173.  'This 
statement,'  Dr.  Philip  adds,  '  will  sl>ow  you  the  need  we 
have  for  a  chapel  at  Cape  Town.  Without  a  place  for 
worship   on    the    Sabbath,    and    on    the    week   days   for 


REVISED  FINANCIAL   ARRANGEMENTS        543 

teaching  the  slaves,  nothing  effective  can  be  accomplished 
here  \' 

Prior  to  Dr.  Philip's  arrival,  there  had  been  a  strong 
tendency  on  the  part  of  the  Government  to  regulate  the 
movements  of  the  missionaries,  at  one  time  prohibiting 
their  departure  to  stations  outside  the  limits  of  the  Colony, 
at  another  recalling  them.  But  as  early  as  December  28, 
1820,  he  was  able  to  write,  '  We  can  now  send  missionaries 
where  we  will.' 

The  financial  arrangements  between  the  Society  and  its 
missionaries  had  hitherto  been  haphazard,  and  they  had 
been  further  complicated  by  the  fact  that  the  Netherlands 
Society,  and  also  the  local  Society  at  the  Cape,  had  pos- 
sessed independent  authority  and  responsibility  in  both 
the  appointment  and  the  support  of  missionaries.  These 
details,  consequently,  occupied  much  of  Dr.  Philip's  atten- 
tion during  his  earlier  years  in  Cape  Town,  and  finally 
during  his  stay  in  England  in  1826  the  Board  passed  the 
following  resolutions  :  '  That  the  salaries  of  the  missionaries 
in  Africa  be  in  future  as  follows :  A  single  missionary  or 
missionary  artisan,  £j^ ;  a  married  missionary  or  missionary 
artisan,  i^ioo  ;  for  every  child,  £^.'  This  scale  was  the 
result  of  a  lengthy  correspondence  on  finance  between  the 
missionaries  and  the  Board. 

The  regulation  on  slavery  emphasizes  the  fact  that 
Christian  missionaries  could  not  possibly  live  and  work  in 
South  Africa  during  the  first  forty  years  of  the  nineteenth 
century  without  coming  into  sharp  conflict  with  some  of  the 
social  and  political  regulations  and  conditions  which  ob- 
tained there.  We  have  seen  in  Chapter  XVI  how,  in  the 
same  way,  Vanderkemp  was  forced  into  conflict  with 
colonial  opinion  and  practice  when  he  tried  to  evangelize 
the  Hottentots.  Dr.  Philip  was  soon  to  pass  through 
a  similar  experience.  No  aphorism  is  more  common  in  the 
press  of  to-day,  and  no  principle  has  been  more  steadily 
acted  upon  by   the  great   missionary  societies  of  Europe 

^  These  extracts  are  from  a   letter  printed   in  the  Evangelical  Magazine, 
1820,  p.  215. 


544      ^^-   PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :  1S20-1850 

and  America,  than  that  missionaries,  as  such,  have  nothing 
to  do  with  politics.  Sound  as  this  maxim  may  be,  it  is 
from  the  Christian  standpoint  inevitable  that  if  the  Govern- 
ment of  a  country  allies  itself  with  cruelty,  social  wrongs, 
and  oppression,  the  Christian  missionary,  working  within 
the  sphere  of  such  Government,  in?(st  find  himself  in  active 
opposition  to  such  things.  Against  slavery  as  it  existed  in 
Africa  and  the  West  Indies  in  1825;  against  such  treat- 
ment as  the  colonists  of  South  Africa  in  1825  meted  out  to 
Hottentots  and  Kafirs  ;  against  such  Government  support 
as  was  given  in  India  to  idol-worship  at  the  same  date ; 
against  such  monstrous  evils  as  the  opium  traffic  with  China, 
all  missionaries  must  ever  strive  and  labour  and  pray. 

Dr.  Philip  spent  much  time  in  visiting  the  various  mission- 
stations,  and  by  this  natural  and  necessary  course  of  action 
he  soon  found  himself  in  opposition  to  colonial  public 
opinion  and  to  some  departments  of  colonial  administration. 
Readers  who  wish  to  understand  this  question  thoroughly 
should  consult  on  the  one  hand  such  books  as  the  History 
of  Ihe  Colony  of  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  by  A.  Wilmot  and 
John  Centlivres  Chase  (1869),  and  South  Africa,  by  G.  M. 
Theal  (1894).  From  them  he  will  learn  how  constantly 
every  question  connected  with  the  South  African  native  is 
looked  at  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  colonist's  pocket. 
Either  no  credit  at  all  is  given  to  missionaries  or  missionary 
labours,  or  else  it  is  rendered  in  such  an  ungracious  manner 
as  to  arouse  the  conviction  that  while  feebly  blessing  it 
they  would  much  rather  curse  it.  Missionaries  are  to  be 
endured  chiefly  because  Government  tolerates  them.  The 
natives  are  of  value  only  so  far  as  they  can  be  compelled 
to  aid  the  white  man  in  building  up  his  fortunes.  On  the 
other  side,  he  should  study  such  books  as  Dr.  Philip's 
Researches  in  South  Africa  (1828),  Moffat's  Missionary 
Labojirs  and  Scenes  in  South  Africa  (1842),  and  Living- 
stone's Missionary  Travels  and  Researches  in  South  Africa 
(1857).  In  these  books  he  finds  the  Hottentot  and  the 
Kafir  regarded  as  human  beings  entitled  to  the  same  moral 
and  spiritual  rights  as  ourselves.      He  will  further  see  on 


THE  PROCLAMATIONS   OF  1S09  AND  1812     545 

reflection  that  the  very  unpopularity  of  this  advocacy  is  the 
best  answer  to  all  the  strictures  and  malevolent  attacks  of 
its  opponents. 

As  early  as  1809,  Colonel  Collins  urged  that  Bethelsdorp 
should  be  suppressed,  on  the  cynical  grounds  that  Vander- 
kemp  had  admitted  his  non-success  ;  that  the  institution 
was  designed  not  to  benefit  the  Colony  but  the  Hottentots  ; 
and  that  the  Hottentots  might  be  made  useful  to  the 
farmers.  In  1809,  Lord  Caledon  issued  the  famous  procla- 
mation ^  intended  for  the  regulation  of  all  affairs  connected 
with  the  Hottentots,  and  designed  as  a  protection  for  them 
against  oppression.  Lord  Caledon  appears  to  have  been 
touched  by  the  sufferings  of  these  unhappy  people,  brought 
under  his  notice  in  1808  by  some  of  themselves;  but  in 
drafting  the  proclamation  he  fell  into  the  hands  of  men 
deeply  interested  in  oppressing  the  Hottentots  still  further, 
and  astute  enough  to  use  even  this  proclamation  for  their 
purpose.  The  result  of  the  proclamation  in  its  practical 
working  was  in  the  vast  majority  of  cases,  to  condemn  the 
Hottentots  to  a  servitude  that  was  really  worse  than  slavery, 
and  from  which  there  was  no  escape.  The  Dutch  Boer  or 
English  colonist,  who  had  purchased  his  slave,  to  that 
extent  took  care  of  him.  if  only  because  he  represented 
capital.  Of  the  Hottentot,  to  whom  he  paid  only  a 
nominal  wage,  whom  he  constantly  defrauded  even  of  this, 
and  whose  labour  he  could  have  for  the  asking,  he  took  no 
care  whatever.  If  through  either  his  cruelty,  oppression, 
or  neglect,  the  Hottentot  died,  his  place  could  speedily  be 
filled  by  others,  doomed  to  tread  the  same  hopeless  path". 
In  181 2  the  condition  of  the  Hottentots  was  rendered  still 
worse  by  a  proclamation  enabling  a  colonist  to  claim  any 
child  of  a  Hottentot  born  upon  his  premises,  and  who  had 
reached  the  age  of  eight  years,  as  an  '  apprentice '  for  the 
next  ten  years.  Here  again  the  theory  was  that  the 
Hottentot  neglected  his  child,  the  tender  and  humane 
colonist  would  cherish  it.     '  It   is   difficult   to  say,'  writes 

^  This  is  given  in  full  in  Researches  in  South  Africa,  ii.  pp.  374-378. 
'  For  full  details  and  proofs  of  these  statements  see  ibid.  i.  pp.  142-174. 

I.  N  n 


546      DR.   PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION:  1820-1850 

Dr.  Philip  \  'which  is  most  to  be  deprecated,  the  injustice, 
the  inhumanity,  or  the  pernicious  consequences  of  this 
regulation.'  Here  is  one  example  of  how  this  system 
worked  : 

'  In  a  journey  which  I  made  into  the  interior  of  the 
colony  in  1825,  I  lodged  two  nights  at  the  house  of  a 
respectable  farmer,  who  had  a  number  of  Hottentots  in  his 
service,  that  had  belonged  to  the  missionary  station  of 
Zuurbrack  before  it  was  broken  up  in  consequence  of  the 
measures  pursued  by  the  colonial  government.  Pointing 
to  one  family,  consisting  of  ten  brothers,  the  greater  part 
of  them  born  on  the  missionary  institution,  he  remarked 
to  me  with  great  simplicity,  "  That  family,  sir,  is  my 
wealth  :  they  are  better  to  me  than  slaves,  for  they  cost 
me  nothing ;  and  I  shall  have  them  apprenticed  to  me  till 
they  are  twenty-five,  perhaps  till  they  are  twenty-nine 
years  of  age,  and  perhaps  I  may  be  able  to  keep  them 
for  ever^."  ' 

In  1814  a  direct  blow  was  aimed  at  the  missionary  insti- 
tutions by  the  Opgaaf,  or  tax,  which  was  levied  07ily  upon 
Hottentots  in  them.  This  tax  was  fixed  at  the  monstrous 
amount  of  two-thirds  of  their  possible  annual  earnings.  It 
was  perfectly  well  known  that  the  natives  could  not  pay 
the  tax,  and  the  end  aimed  at  was  to  get  them  away  from 
the  institutions,  shut  them  up  in  prison  from  inability  to 
pay,  and  then  compel  them  to  enter  into  the  service  of 
colonists.  The  charge  was  constantly  made  that  the 
missionary  institutions  collected  the  rebellious  and  discon- 
tented, encouraged  them  in  laziness,  and  injured  the 
colonists  by  preventing  them  from  availing  themselves  of 
native  labour.  Any  man  of  average  common  sense,  who 
studies  the  facts,  will  see  that  the  great  vice  of  all 
missionary  institutions,  in  the  eyes  of  the  colonists,  was 
that  they  enabled  the  Hottentot  to  learn  that,  as  a  human 
being,  he  had  rights ;  they  taught  him  to  claim  these 
rights,  they  often  enabled  him  to  secure  them,  and  they 
confronted  Dutchman  and  Englishman  alike  with  a  power 

*  Researches  in  South  Africa,  i.  p.  176.  ^  Ibid.  i.  p.  183. 


COLONIAL   HOSTILITY  TO  BETHELSDORP    547 

that  said,  *  You  shall  not  enslave  and  oppress  and  harry 
to  death,  just  as  you  will,  men  whose  great  offence  is  that 
they  are  the  aboriginal  inhabitants  of  the  land  you  covet.' 

It  was  as  absurd  in  i^2j,  on  the  ground  of  probability, 
as  it  is  now  on  the  surer  ground  of  experience,  for  the 
supporters  of  missions  to  expect  marvellous  results  from 
these  institutions.  The  Hottentots  in  them  often  were  lazy 
and  ungrateful,  and  sometimes  the  institutions  may  have 
become  havens  of  refuge  to  Hottentot  Ishmaels.  Nothing 
was  more  natural.  But  even  where  the  institution  contained 
a  few  of  such  men,  they  and  all  their  fellow-natives  came  m 
the  missionary  institution  under  the  care  of  men  who  for 
Christ's  sake  were  striving  to  educate  them,  to  train  them 
into  habits  of  industry,  to  awaken  the  soul  in  them.  At 
such  institutions  the  average  colonist  of  the  first  quarter 
of  the  nineteenth  century  was  the  last  person  in  the  world 
entitled  to  throw  stones. 

On  the  other  hand,  it  would  be  equally  absurd  to  believe 
that  all  colonists  who  employed  Hottentot  labour  cruelly 
oppressed  their  serfs.  There  were  good  colonists,  as  there 
were  up  to  1863  good  slaveholders  in  the  United  States. 
But  the  system  in  both  cases  was  detestable,  and  no  amount 
of  virtue  in  the  men  who  worked  it  could  make  the  system 
which  obtained  in  South  Africa  prior  to  the  legislation  of 
1836,  other  than  abhorrent  to  all  lovers  of  human  freedom 
and  progress. 

The  chief  point  of  attack  in  the  colonial  hostility  to 
missions  was  Bcthelsdorp.  Dr.  Philip's  description  of 
what  he  found  there  on  his  first  visit  shows  that  there  was 
great  need  for  renewed  effort,  and  more  careful  superin- 
tendence : 

'The  system  of  oppression,  of  which  Dr.  \^andcikcmp  so 
bitterly  complained,  and  under  which  he  sunk  into  his 
grave  with  a  broken  heart,  had  been  carried  on  for  years 
without  a  single  check.  The  institution  was  virtually 
converted  into  a  slave  lodge,  and  the  people  were  called 
out  to  labour  at  Uitenhage,  to  work  on  the  public  road.'J, 
to  cultivate  the  lands  of  the  local  authorities,  or  to  serve 

N  n  2 


548     DR.  PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :  1820-1850 

their  friends,  or  the  colonial  government,  receiving  for  these 
labours  never  more  than  a  trifling  remuneration,  and  very 
frequently  none  at  all.  In  addition  to  the  daily  oppressions 
exercised  upon  the  people,  we  found  that  seventy  of  the 
men  had  been  employed  for  six  months  in  the  Caffer  v^ar. 
For  this  service  they  received  nothing  but  rations  for  them- 
selves :  nothing  in  the  shape  of  wages  was  allowed  to  their 
families ;  and  the  women,  to  keep  themselves  and  children 
from  starving,  were  under  the  necessity  of  contracting 
debts  among  the  farmers,  to  be  liquidated  by  the  personal 
service  of  the  husbands  on  their  returning  from  Cafferland. 
To  these  circumstances  I  must  refer  for  the  cause  of  the 
deplorable  condition  in  which  the  deputation  found  the 
spiritual  and  temporal  affairs  of  this  mission.  In  such 
a  state  of  wretchedness,  we  could  neither  look  for  cleanli- 
ness nor  industry  :  robbed  of  the  fruits  of  their  industry, 
the  people  had  no  motive  to  labour,  and  the  place  of 
worship  was  deserted  ^.' 

In  1 82 1,  James  Kitchingman  became  superintendent 
of  Bethelsdorp,  assisted  by  James  Read.  Education  was 
more  carefully  tended,  and  in  accordance  with  the  early 
policy  of  the  Society,  Dr.  Philip  took  immediate  steps  to 
protect  the  Hottentots  at  Bethelsdorp  from  this  crushing 
persecution,  to  stimulate  their  industry,  and  thus  to  improve 
their  social  well-being.  Under  his  vigorous  administration 
the  people  were  induced  to  build  better  houses,  to  pay  more 
regard  to  suitable  and  decent  clothing,  to  prize  more  highly 
the  benefits  of  education  and  of  industry,  to  realize  better 
the  way  in  which  the  Society,  through  its  missionaries, 
laboured  for  their  welfare,  and  were  thus  enabled  more 
intelligently  and  more  sympathetically  to  receive  their 
teaching  on  spiritual  matters.  That  Dr.  Philip  fully 
recognized  and  acted  upon  the  conviction  that  Christianity 
is  the  true  centre  and  source  of  civilization  is  evident  from 
his  own  testimony  :  — 

'Vital  religion  has  never  been  lost  sight  of  in  my  labours 
in  South  Africa  ;  and  though,  like  the  sap  which  nourishes 

^  Researches  in  South  Africa,  i.  pp.  201,  202.  * 


'  RESEARCHES  IN  SOUTH  AFRICA  ' 


549 


the  tree  and  gives  it  all  its  foliage  and  fruit,  it  is  not  visible 
to  the  eye,  it  is  nevertheless  the  source  of  all  the  fruitful- 
ness  and  beauty  which  adorn  our  missionary  stations. 
While  I  am  satisfied,  from  abundance  of  incontrovertible 
facts,  that  permanent  societies  of  Christians  can  never  be 
maintained  among  an  uncivilized  people  without  imparting 
to  them  the  arts  and  habits  of  civilized  life,  I  am  satisfied, 
upon  grounds  no  less  evident,  that  if  missionaries  lose  their 
religion  and  sink  into  mere  mechanics,  the  work  of  civiliza- 
tion and  moral  improvement  will  speedily  retrograde.  The 
church  at  Bethelsdorp  is  not,  perhaps,  more  numerous  than 
it  was  in  1821,  but  I  believe  it  contains  more  real  Christians 
than  on  any  former  occasion^.' 

In  January,  1826,  by  the  request  of  the  Directors, 
Dr.  Philip  returned  to  England  in  order  to  assist  their 
deliberations.  Richard  Miles,  formerly  pastor  of  Brigg  in 
Lincolnshire,  who  had  been  appointed  to  Demerara,  was 
sent  to  Cape  Town  to  act  as  Dr.  Philip's  substitute  during 
the  latter's  absence  in  England.  Mr.  Miles  visited  the 
various  stations,  including Kafirland  and  Kuruman,  and, after 
Dr.  Philip's  return,  early  in  1830  returned  to  England,  his 
connection  with  the  Society  being  terminated  soon  after. 

While  in  England,  in  1828,  Dr.  Philip  published  his 
famous  Researches  in  South  Africa,  to  which  we  have 
already  referred  once  and  again.  In  a  book  covering  so 
large  an  area,  and  dealing  with  such  bitterly  controverted 
subjects,  it  was  unlikely  that  slips  and  errors  would  be 
entirely  avo'ded.  The  book  aroused  in  the  Colony  a 
bitterness  of  feeling  which  illustrates  further  how  deadly 
was  the  hatred  felt  by  many  to  any  one  who  dared  to 
defend  the  native,  and  to  question  either  the  justice  or  the 
wisdom  of  the  actions  of  colonists  towards  them.  It  was 
perhaps  possible  here  and  there  to  convict  Dr.  Philip  of 
some  slight  inaccuracy,  and  these  were  astutely  used  to 
divert  attention  from  the  enormous  mass  of  irrefutable 
testimony  adduced  in  support  of  his  main  contentions. 
An  example  of  the  hostility  aroused  by  the  book  is  the 

*  Researches  in  South  Africa^  i.  p.  219. 


550      DR.  PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :  1820-1850 

fact  that,  soon  after  his  return  to  Africa,  Dr.  Philip  was 
sued  for  libel  in  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  Colony.  The 
Hbel  was  based  upon  a  passage  which  Dr.  Philip  had 
quoted  from  Mr.  Pringle,  the  secretary  of  the  Ant i- Slavery 
Society.  All  efforts  to  transfer  the  trial  to  England,  and 
thus  remove  it  from  the  intensely  prejudiced  and  hostile 
atmosphere  of  Cape  Town,  were  overruled,  the  case  was 
tried  in  the  midst  of  local  prejudice,  and  without  the 
benefit  of  a  jury,  and  damages  to  the  amount  of  ;^2oo 
awarded  against  Dr.  PhiHp.  The  costs  amounted  to 
^'i.oGO.  These  sums  were  immediately  more  than  met 
by  the  subscriptions  and  contributions  of  those  in  England, 
who  felt  that  Dr.  Philip  had  fought  a  good  fight  in  the 
cause  of  our  common  humanity,  and  that  he  had  been 
condemned  only  by  one  of  those  processes,  quite  familiar 
to  all  who  fight  the  battles  of  freedom,  in  which  even  the 
forms  and  the  power  of  law  are  used  to  punish  the  innocent 
and  to  shield  the  guilty. 

Notwithstanding  the  attacks  upon  Dr.  Philip,  and  the 
hostility  shown  in  many  ways  against  his  book,  it  exerted 
enormous  influence  upon  the  administration  of  affairs  in 
the  Colony.  One  highly  important  result  was  the  promul- 
gation, on  July  17,  1828,  of  the  famous  Order  in  Council, 
No.  50,  by  Sir  R.  Bourke.  This  was  entitled,  'An  Ordinance 
for  Improving  the  Condition  of  Hottentots  and  other  Free 
Persons  of  Colour.'  '  Previous  to  the  promulgation  of  this 
humane  provision,  an  erroneous  idea  had  become  prevalent 
in  the  Colony  that  Hottentots,  the  original  proprietors  of 
the  soil,  could  not  hold  land.  A  principle  so  atrocious,  and 
a  tenet  so  unfounded,  therefore  required  some  declaratory 
enactment,  and  this  was  provided  by  the  one  in  question  \' 
The  '  principle  so  atrocious '  had  often  been  acted  upon,  but 
from  the  date  of  Order  No.  50,  plundering  the  Hottentot 
became  less  easy  and  more  dangerous  to  those  who  pursued 
It.  Hence  in  many  quarters,  where  this  practice  had  been 
both  common  and  profitable,  feeling  ran  high  with  regard 

'  I/islory  of  the  Colony  of  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  Wilmot  and  Chase,  p.  297, 
edition  of  1869. 


THE   COMMISSION  OF  1S24  551 

to  Dr.  Philip.  Those  who  are  curious  on  this  point,  and 
wishful  to  understand  to  what  lengths  folly  and  prejudice 
can  carry  men,  should  read — if  they  can  now  find  copies — 
such  publications  as  Some  Reasons  for  our  opposing  the 
Author  of  the  South  Afrieafi  Researches :  By  the  British 
Immigrants  ^1820. 

In  addition  to  whatever  influence  it  exerted  in  bringing 
about  Order  No.  50,  Dr.  Philip's  book  also  gave  a  great 
stimulus  to  the  work  of  emancipation  in  Great  Britain, 
and  led  ultimately  to  the  appointment  by  the  House  of 
Commons,  in  1 836,  of  a  Select  Committee  on  the  whole 
question  of  the  relation  of  the  British  Government  to  natives 
in  her  colonies  and  along  their  frontiers. 

A  Commission  of  Inquiry,  which  visited  many  parts,  had 
been  appointed  in  1824.  The  circulation  of  their  report 
among  members  of  the  House  of  Commons  was  delayed 
until  1830,  but  when  it  appeared^  it  justified  completely 
Dr.  Philip's  main  contentions  as  to  the  relations  of  the 
colonists  towards  the  natives.  It  shows  how  evil,  in  their 
influence  upon  Hottentots,  were  the  proclamations  of  1809, 
]8i2,  and  1819.  The  effect  of  the  clause  in  the  first, 
prohibiting  Hottentots  from  moving  about  without  passes, 
is  thus  set  forth  :  — 

'  The  effect  of  this  clause  placed  the  Hottentots  under 
the  control  of  every  inhabitant  of  the  Colony,  and  having 
been  enacted  at  a  period  when  the  demand  for  free  labour 
was  encouraged  by  the  prohibition  to  import  slaves,  the 
vigilance  of  those  who  were  interested  in  obtaining  it  was 
naturally  excited  in  detaining  the  Hottentots  upon  frivolous 
pretexts  within  the  limits  of  their  respective  districts.  It 
has  likewise  been  attended  with  inconvenience  to  the  in- 
habitants who  employed  them,  especially  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  the  villages  and  markets,  with  which  constant  and 
frequent  intercourse  was  to  be  maintained.' 

'  The  result  of  these  regulations  has  been  that  of  creating 

*  Report  of  the  Commissioners  of  Inquiry  upon  the  Hottentot  Population  of 
the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  and  of  the  Missionary  Institutions.  Ordered,  by  the 
House  of  Commons,  to  be  printed,  July  i,  1830. 


552      DR.   PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION:  1820-1850 

perpetual  obligation  in  the  Hottentots  to  enter  into  service; 
for  although  it  was  declared  that,  at  the  expiration  of  his 
eneaeement,  a  Hottentot  was  free  to  make  another,  or  to 
act  in  any  manner  that  the  laws  of  the  Colony  admitted, 
yet  in  the  event  of  his  not  making  a  new  engagement,  he 
was  liable  to  be  apprehended  as  a  vagrant,  at  the  expira- 
tion of  the  time  mentioned  in  his  pass,  thrown  in  gaol,  and 
a  master  provided  for  him,  who  either  advanced  or  became 
responsible  for  the  expenses  of  detention.  The  keepers  of 
the  different  gaols,  who  were  allowed  to  have  an  interest 
in  victualling  the  prisoners,  and  also  a  power  of  apprehend- 
ing vagrants  in  the  towns,  were  not  remiss  in  this  part 
of  their  duty/ 

'  Whatever  may  have  been  the  ulterior  views  of  Govern- 
ment, the  system  then  acted  upon  has  been  unceasingly 
pursued,  but  in  some  districts  with  more  severity  than  in 
others,  and  with  the  exception  of  the  individuals  of  the 
Hottentot  class  who  have  found  asylums  in  the  missionary 
institutions,  or  who  have  served  in  the  Cape  Corps,  the 
great  majority  have  remained  in  a  state  of  servitude  to 
the  white  inhabitants  of  the  Colony.  In  reporting  upon 
the  civil  and  criminal  laws,  my  colleagues  and  myself  had 
occasion  to  notice  the  insufficient  protection  which  the 
proclamation  of  1809  had  afforded  to  the  Hottentots  against 
the  undue  severity  of  their  masters,  as  well  as  the  feelings 
which  had  prevailed  in  the  provincial  and  colonial  courts 
whenever  the  claims  of  the  Hottentot  servants  to  indemnity 
were  balanced  against  the  oppressive  authority  of  the 
masters.  We  had  also  to  notice  the  increasing  frequency 
of  the  crimes  committed  by  the  Hottentots,  and  the 
prevalence  of  feelings  in  the  higher  classes  of  the  agri- 
cultural population,  which  precluded  any  expectation  of 
their  consent  to  relax  the  system  by  which  the  condition 
of  the  Hottentots  might  be  ameliorated.' 

The  proclamations  of  1812  and  1819  legalized  the 
apprenticeship  system,  by  which  the  Hottentots  lost 
control  even  of  their  own  children.  The  report  indicates 
the  gross  evils  to  which  this  led,  sketches  the  history  of 


REPORT  OF  THE   COMMISSION  553 

the  missionary  institutions,  and  finally  sums  up  the  position 
in  words  which  amply  justify  the  action  taken  by  the 
Society's  agents  and  supporters  in  the  Colony  and  in  Great 
Britain  : — 

'  Much  of  the  opposition  that  was  shown  by  the  Dutch 
Government  to  the  exertions  of  Dr.  Van  der  Kemp  arose 
from  the  national  jealousy  of  the  sources  from  whence  he 
derived  his  pecuniary  support,  and  of  the  friendly  feelings 
which  the  Hottentots  under  his  care  had  always  manifested 
towards  the  English  Government.  Allowing,  however,  for 
the  operation  of  those  scruples  at  a  particular  period,  it 
must  be  admitted,  that  although  the  existence  of  the 
missions  established  by  the  London  Missionary  Society 
has  been  tolerated  by  the  local  government,  yet  no  effort 
has  been  made  by  it  to  extend  the  sphere  of  their  useful- 
ness, or  to  realize  the  benefits  of  which  they  undoubtedly 
were  the  willing  instruments.  There  has  also  been  mani- 
fested a  greater  degree  of  sympathy  for  the  demands  of 
the  white  inhabitants  for  the  labour  of  the  Hottentots, 
than  of  respect  for  their  rights  as  a  free  people,  or  of 
anxiety  to  compensate  for  the  many  injuries  they  had 
suffered  by  encroachment  on  their  lands.' 

'As  the  great  sources  of  those  evils  of  which  the  mission- 
ary societies  have  complained  have  been  removed  by  the 
provisions  of  the  Ordinance  of  Major-General  Bourke,  the 
Lieutenant-Governor  in  Council,  and  by  the  confirmation 
which  His  Majesty  has  been  graciously  pleased  to  give  to 
it,  I  shall  be  excused  from  entering  into  a  detail  of  the 
advantages  which  this  great  measure  may  be  expected  to 
accomplish.  The  Hottentots  will  now  no  longer  be 
dependent  upon  the  caprices  of  the  landdrosts  for  per- 
mission to  repair  to  the  missionary  institutions,  or  to 
engage  in  any  place  or  in  any  employment  that  is  open 
to  the  choice  of  the  free  population  of  the  Colony.' 

In  1^34,  Sir  Benjamin  D'Urban  reached  the  Cape,  and 
began  a  governorship  fraught  with  highly  important  conse- 
quences. He  was  charged  by  the  Home  Government  to 
reduce  administrative  expenditure,  which  up  to  this  date 


554      DR.   PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :  1820-1S50 

had  been  upon  an  outrageously  excessive  scale  ;  to  develop, 
as  far  as  possible,  legislative  and  executive  councils  ;  and  to 
carry  out  emancipation,  Parliament  having  enacted  that 
slaver}^  in  Cape  Colony  should  cease  on  December  i,  1834. 
Colonial  opinion  thought  itself  further  outraged  by  the  fact 
thatParliamenthadallotted  only ;^i, 250,000 as  compensation 
for  the  39,000  slaves  affected  by  this  Act,  the  slaveholders 
thinking  they  ought  to  receive  at  least  ^^3,000,000.  But 
the  most  important  part  of  Sir  B.  D'Urban's  duty  was  to 
place  upon  a  better  footing  the  relation  between  the 
Government  and  the  various  frontier  tribes.  Before  he 
could  deal  with  the  eastern  frontier,  war  had  again  broken 
out  with  the  Kafirs.  To  illustrate  further  the  spirit  in 
which  anti-missionary  writers  see  the  events  of  this  time, 
we  will  tell  the  story  of  the  next  few  years  in  Mr.  Theal's 
words  : — 

'The  arrangements  made  by  Sir  B.  D'Urban  for  the 
preservation  of  peace  were  such  as  every  one  approves  of 
at  the  present  day.  He  brought  some  18,000  Fingoes  from 
beyond  the  Kei  and  gave  them  ground  between  the  Keis- 
kama  and  Fish  rivers,  where  they  would  form  a  buffer  for 
the  colonists.  They  and  the  Kosas  ^  hated  each  other 
bitterly,  and  this  feeling  was  deepened  by  their  appro- 
priating and  taking  with  them  22,000  head  of  cattle 
belonging  to  Kreli's  people.  It  was  thus  to  their  interest 
to  act  honestly  towards  the  Europeans,  whose  support 
alone  could  save  them  from  destruction.  Between  the 
Keiskama  and  the  Kei  the  western  Kosa  clans  were  located 
as  British  subjects,  but  a  great  deal  of  authority  was  left 
to  the  chiefs.  The  territory  was  named  the  Province  of 
Queen  Adelaide,  and  Colonel  Smith  was  stationed  at  a 
place  in  it  called  King-Williamstown,  to  command  the 
troops  and  control  the  chiefs.  This  plan  of  settlement 
commended  itself  to  the  great  majority  of  the  colonists 
and   of  the   missionaries-,   who   hoped   that  under  it   the 

'  These  were  the  leading  section  in  that  district  of  the  so-called  Kafir 
tribes. 


3 


This  statement  so  far  as  it  refers  to  missionaries  is  incorrect. 


MR.    T REAL'S   VIEWS  555 

Kosas  would  make  rapid  advances  towards  civilization,  and 
that  property  on  the  border  would  be  secure. 

'  There  was,  however,  in  Cape  Town — 500  miles  from 
the  Kaffir  frontier-— a  party  under  the  leadership  of  the 
reverend  Dr.  Philip,  that  entirely  disapproved  of  the 
Governor's  plans.  It  was  composed  of  only  a  few  indi- 
viduals, but  it  had  powerful  support  from  abroad.  This 
party  desired  the  formation  of  states  ruled  by  Bantu 
chiefs  ^  under  the  guidance  of  missionaries,  and  from  which 
Europeans  not  favoured  by  missionaries  should  be  ex- 
cluded. It  maintained  the  theory  that  the  Kosas  were 
an  eminently  docile  and  peaceably  disposed  people,  who 
could  easily  be  taught  to  do  what  was  right,  and  who 
must  therefore  have  been  provoked  to  take  up  arms  by 
great  wrongs  and  cruelties.  The  utmost  fear  was  expressed 
that  the  Bantu  tribes  would  perish  if  exposed  to  free 
intercourse  with  white  people. 

'  To  push  his  views.  Dr.  Philip  visited  England  with 
a  Kosa  and  a  half-breed  Hottentot,  who  had  been  trained 
by  missionaries.  A  Committee  of  the  House  of  Commons 
was  at  the  time  collecting  information  upon  the  aborigines 
in  British  colonies,  and  Dr.  Philip  appeared  before  it. 
His  evidence  was  received  at  great  length,  and  though 
it  consisted  largely  of  opinion,  it  was  allowed  to  outweigh 
that  of  officers  of  greatest  experience  in  South  African 
affairs^.' 

Rightly  to  estimate  this  and  other  kindred  references, 
it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  Lord  Glenelg's  action  was 
based  upon  the  report  of  the  British  Government's  own 
Commission  of  Inquiry  referred  to  above.  Further,  in 
the  four  folio  volumes  which  contain  the  evidence  given 
before,  and  the  final  report  of,  the  Select  Committee 
of  the  House  of  Commons  appointed  in  i«S36,  there  is 
found  the  amplest  confirmation  of  the  views  and  assertions 
of  the  Society's  agents.  To  believe  that  the  modern 
historian's   view    is    correct,    is   to    believe    that    half   the 

*  Another  incorrect  statement. 

'  Sotilh  Africa,  G.  M.  Theal,  pp.  190-19-'. 


556     DR.   PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :  1820-1850 

witnesses  before  one  of  the  most  powerful  and  important 
of  House  of  Commons'  Committees  were  either  fools  or 
knaves. 

The  powerful  and  warlike  Kafir  tribes  inhabited  the 
country  lying  to  the  east  and  north  of  the  Great  Fish 
River.  Physically  they  were  a  fine  race.  The  chief's 
power  was  despotic.  Polygamy  prevailed,  and  witchcraft, 
in  which  they  all  firmly  beh'eved,  was  the  source  of  constant 
evil  and  cruelty.  At  the  close  of  the  last  century  and  the 
beginning  of  this,  constant  warfare  raged  between  the 
frontier  colonists  and  the  Kafirs.  '  The  farmers  were  forced 
to  league  together  for  mutual  defence,  and  a  system  of 
commandoes  was  the  result.  Abuses^  no  doubt ^  were  fre- 
quently committed  by  these  bands  ^'  These  words  entirely 
concede  the  contention  of  Dr.  Philip  and  his  friends. 
The  Kafirs  not  unfrequently  robbed  the  colonists,  who 
were  warlike  and  savage  in  their  reprisals ;  but  the 
bulk  of  the  responsibility  for  the  horrible  crimes  and 
slaughter  which  were  perpetrated  on  both  sides  between 
1820  and  1851  lies  largely  at  the  door  of  those  colonists 
who  were  hungering  for  the  land  and  the  cattle  of  the 
Kafirs.  On  the  occasion  of  every  fresh  outbreak  of  border 
violence  it  was  easy  to  assert  that  the  Kafirs  were  the 
aggressors.  But  the  modern  reader  notes  that  one  constant 
result  of  each  successive  outbreak  was  the  enlargement 
of  colonial  territory  and  the  concomitant  increase  of  Kafir 
subjugation.  This  was  inevitable,  but  the  evidence  favours 
the  view  that  but  for  the  presence  of  Christian  mis- 
sionaries in  South  Africa,  little  or  nothing  would  have 
been  done  on  behalf  of  the  Kafir  tribes,  and  their  reduc- 
tion to  serfdom  would  have  been  much  more  rapid  and 
complete. 

As  early  as  18  J  5,  Graham's  Town  had  been  established 
as  a  frontier  post  in  consequence  of  troubles  with  the 
Kafirs.  In  1817,  Lord  Charles  Somerset  made  a  treaty 
with  Gaika  and  other  Kafir  chiefs,  by  which  the  kraal 
to  which  stolen  cattle  could  be  traced  was  compelled  to 

*  Wilmot  and  Chase,  p.  250  (1869). 


TROUBLES   WITH  THE  KAFIRS  557 

make  reparation  from  its  own  stock.  In  1818  a  pretext 
was  found  for  violating  this  treaty.  War  broke  out,  and 
finally  in  18 19  Lord  Charles  Somerset  concluded  an  agree- 
ment with  the  Kafir  chiefs  '  that  all  Kafirs  should  evacuate 
the  country  between  the  Great  Fish  River  and  the  Keis- 
kamma.  This  region  was  to  be  a  neutral  territory.  At 
this  juncture  the  British  Parliament  voted  ^^50,000  towards 
an  emigration  scheme,  which  resulted  in  the  arrival  in 
South  Africa  during  1820  of  4,000  emigrants,  selected 
out  of  90,000  applicants  \  These  families  were  landed  at 
Algoa  Bay  (Port  Elizabeth),  and  dispersed  along  the 
eastern  frontier  of  the  Colony.  By  the  end  of  1 820,  about 
5.000  settlers  had  been  located  between  the  Sunday  and 
Great  Fish  Rivers,  and  southward  from  Graham's  Town 
to  the  sea— that  is  over  a  territory  of  about  3,000  square 
miles.  Like  many  colonization  schemes,  this  suffered 
at  first  from  incompetency  on  the  part  of  many  of  the 
settlers,  from  failure  of  crops,  and  also  from  the  unconcealed 
hostility  of  Lord  Charles  Somerset.  The  settlers  finally 
petitioned  the  Home  Government  for  a  commission  of 
inquiry  into  their  grievances,  largely  on  the  ground  that 
the  interests  of  the  western  and  eastern  branches  of  Cape 
Colony  were  by  no  means  identical,  and  that  the  ruling 
powers  at  Cape  Town  gave  little  heed  to,  and  cared  still 
less  about  the  requirements  of  the  eastern  half  of  the 
Colony.  In  July,  1824,  Royal  Commissioners  arrived  at 
Graham's  Town.  Among  other  achievements,  this  visit 
led  in  April,  1829,  to  the  establishment  of  a  free  press 
in  the  Colony,  a  fact  very  potent  in  after  effects  upon  the 
controversy  over  native  rights.  After  the  publication  of 
the  Report  of  the  Commissioners  in  September,  1826,  the 
eastern  province  was  made,  in  civil  government,  indepen- 
dent of  the  western,  under  a  Lieutenant-Gcneral  residing 
at  Uitenhage.  Many  local  reforms  were  instituted,  old 
Dutch  monopolies  and  administrative  methods  disappeared, 
and  in  1828  Captain  Stockenstrom  was  appointed  Com- 
missioner-General at  Graaff  Rcinet  to  watch  over  the  native 

*  Wilmot  and  Chase,  p.  273. 


558     DR.  PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :  1S20-1S50 

tribes  of  the  frontier.  Meanwhile,  the  Kafirs  had  been 
allowed  to  reocciipy  the  'neutral  territory.'  Macomo,  son 
of  Gaika,  attacked  the  Tambookies  living  on  the  Zwart 
Kei  River,  and  then  was  deeply  offended  by  the  high- 
handed action  of  the  Colonial  Government,  which  expelled 
him  and  his  people  from  the  Kat  River.  At  this  point, 
in  1829,  the  famous  Kat  River  Settlement,  which  we  shall 
describe  later  on,  was  established.  The  '  reprisal '  system, 
which  had  been  suppressed  for  some  years,  began  to  revive. 
In  1834,  the  first  year  of  Sir  B.  D'Urban's  govern- 
ment, a  vigorous  attempt  was  made  to  resume  the 
oppression  of  the  native  races  by  the  proposal  of  a  new 
'  Ordinance  for  the  Better  Suppression  of  Vagrancy  in  the 
Colony.'  Dr.  Philip,  aided  by  other  missionaries,  gave 
this  proposal  the  most  strenuous  opposition,  and  while  it 
was  under  discussion  the  Kafir  war  ai^ain  broke  out. 
Here  also,  no  doubt,  the  Kafirs  gave  ample  ground  for 
misrepresenting  their  actions,  and  for  reviving  the  worst 
features  of  the  commando  system.  It  was  natural  that 
savages  should  act  as  they  did  ;  it  was  not  natural  that  men 
of  a  Christian  nation  should  act  as  many  of  the  colonists 
did.  The  crimes  of  the  Kafirs  were  magnified,  the  outrages 
and  crimes  committed  upon  them  by  the  colonists  were 
minified.  In  December,  3834,  the  Kafirs  invaded  the 
Settlement,  and  by  the  close  of  the  year  were  masters 
of  the  whole  district,  except  Graham's  Town  and  Theopolis. 
In  the  war  which  ensued  the  Kafirs  were  defeated,  and 
Hintza,  their  most  powerful  chief,  treacherously  murdered. 
Public  opinion  at  home  was  deeply  stirred.  Largely 
through  the  efforts  of  Dr.  Philip,  and  other  South 
African  missionaries,  the  true  state  of  affairs  along  the 
frontier  was  apprehended  by  the  public  and  by  Parlia- 
ment, and  in  1836  Lord  Glenelg  sent  his  famous  dispatch 
to  Cape  Town.  In  this  state  document,  the  Home  Govern- 
ment accepted  fully  and  acted  vigorously  upon  the  view 
of  native  rights,  of  colonial  aggression,  and  of  responsibility 
towards  the  natives  which  all  the  missionaries  had  so 
strenuously  advocated. 


LORD   CLENELG'S  DISPATCH,   is 36  559 

The  furious  hatred  which  this  dispatch  aroused,  the  per- 
sistent efforts  made  to  Hmit  its  effect,  and  to  reverse  its 
action,  taken  in  conjunction  with  the  after  history  of  the 
Colony,  are  strong  proofs  of  its  justice,  wisdom,  and 
efficacy.  The  dispatch  affirmed  that  '  in  the  conduct 
which  was  pursued  towards  the  Kafir  nation  by  the 
colonists,  and  the  public  authorities  of  the  Colony,  through 
a  long  series  of  years,  the  Kafirs  had  ample  justification  of 
the  late  war  ;  they  had  a  perfect  right  to  hazard  the  experi- 
ment, however  hopeless,  of  extorting  by  force  that  redress 
they  could  not  otherwise  expect  to  obtain  ;  and  that  the 
c^aim  of  sovereignty  over  the  new  province  bounded  by  the 
Keiskamma  and  the  Kei  must  be  renounced.  It  rests  upon 
a  conquest  resulting  from  a  war  in  which,  as  far  as  I  am  at 
present  enabled  to  judge,  the  original  justice  is  on  the  side 
of  the  conquered,  not  of  the  victorious  party.' 

How  colonial  opinion  viewed  this  policy  the  following 
extract  shows.  Prior  to  the  arrival  of  the  dispatch  rumours 
had  been  current  in  Cape  Town  that  the  Home  Govern- 
ment would  not  approve  of  Sir  Benjamin  D'Urban's  action. 
Speaking  of  this  Wilmot  and  Chase  say  in  their  history^  : — 

'  The  origin  of  the  rumours  preceding  the  arrival  of 
this  cr/id  despatch  may  be  found  in  the  proceedings  of 
a  small  but  active  party  in  the  South  African  metropolis, 
which  commenced  a  systematic  crusade,  under  the  guise  of 
hiima7iit)\  against  the  Government  and  colonists.  During 
the  whole  progress  of  hostilities  that  most  influential  and 
talented  public  journal — the  South  African  Advertiser^ 
printed  in  Cape  Town — the  editor  of  which  had  allied 
himself  to  the  ultra  and  not  quite  disinterested  views  of 
the  Rev.  Dr.  Philip  —  employed  its  utmost,  and  not  very 
scrupulous  endeavours  in  an  unremitting  series  of  articles 
to  prejudice  the  case  of  the  Colony.' 

'  After  such  representations,  contradicted  at  the  time  by 
the  frontier  presses  and  one  at  Cape  Town,  which  were  never 
heeded,  it  can  be  no  matter  of  wonder  that  the  home  authori- 
ties and  the  public  were  deceived,  and  this  may  account  for 

^  History  of  the  Colony  of  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope ^  p.  333. 


56o      DR.  PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :  1S20-1S50 

the  despatch  dictated  by  the  pectdiar  bias  of  its  author.  But 
the  delusion  still  continued  to  be  maintained  by  the 
industry,  worthy  of  a  better  cause,  of  the  Cape  Town 
Mission  party,  and  its  tools  on  the  extreme  frontier,  who  in 
order  to  deepen  the  impression,  employed  the  astute  device 
of  exhibiting  before  the  humane  but  too  credulous  masses 
of  the  British  people  a  living  specimen  of  "oppressed 
friends  and  brothers  ^."  ' 

The  reader  who,  after  the  lapse  of  half  a  century,  is 
striving  to  arrive  at  the  truth  on  this  fiercely  controverted 
issue,  will  find  it  difficult  to  accept  a  view  which  the 
historian,  writing  thirty  years  later,  can  enforce  only  by 
imputing  hypocrisy,  self-interest,  bias,  and  conscious  deceit, 
to  his  opponents,  especially  when  these  are  men  like 
Dr.  Philip  and  Mr.  Fairbairn,  editor  of  the  South  African 
Advertiser.  To  such  it  appears  more  reasonable  and  likely 
that  not  a  few  colonists  on  the  frontier  were  cruel  and 
unjust  oppressors  of  the  natives,  doing  these  deeds  of 
violence  from  intelligible  and  obvious  motives.  They 
wished  to  enrich  themselves  easily  and  quickly,  they 
yielded  to  the  temptation  of  '  land  hunger,'  they  liked  the 
excitement  of  fighting  the  natives,  and  they  considered  it 
Utopian  folly  to  even  attempt  to  benefit  Hottentots  and 
Kafirs.  What  the  journalists  and  historians  who  uphold 
the  anti-missionary  view  have  never  yet  succeeded  in  show- 
ing is  why,  if  they  were  either  hypocrites  or  misguided  and 
self-seeking  persons,  Dr.  Philip  and  his  helpers  should 
have  cared  to  lift  a  finger  on  behalf  of  Kafir  and  Hottentot, 
and  how,  if  they  were  misguided  fools,  they  could  have  so 
long  and  so  powerfully  influenced  public  opinion. 

In  December,  3839,  the  territory  which  had  been  wrested 
from  the  Kafirs  in  1834  and  1835  was  restored,  includ- 
ing the  portion  between  the  Great  Fish  and  Keiskamma 
Rivers;  in  the  latter  part  of  1836  Colonel  Smith,  the 
Commandant  of  the  Province  of  Adelaide,  was  tried  for 
the  murder  of  Hintza,  and,  in  full  accordance  with  colonial 
precedent,  acquitted  ;   and  in  the  House  of  Commons  at 

'  History  of  the  Colony  of  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  p.  334. 


THE  BOER  MIGRATION  561 

the  same  time  an  Act  was  passed  '  for  the  prevention  and 
punishment  of  offences  committed  by  His  Majesty's  sub- 
jects within  certain  territories  adjacent  to  the  Colony  of 
the  Cape  of  Good  Hope.'  This  Act  was  intended  by 
Parliament  to  be  a  restraint  upon  that  system  of  outrage 
which  invoked  colonial  law  to  punish  and  rob  natives, 
who  in  many  cases  were  ignorant  of  the  existence  and 
meaning  of  the  laws  they  were  supposed  to  have  violated. 
On  the  other  hand,  it  was  intended  to  prevent  colonists 
guilty  of  crimes  that  were  detestable  to  common  humanity 
from  being  able  to  crush  those  natives  who  had  sufficient 
knowledge  of  colonial  law  to  make  the  attempt  to  secure 
protection.  Theoretically  the  law  was  impartial ;  actually, 
as  it  had  been  constantly  administered  by  the  aggressive 
party,  the  weaker  always  went  to  the  wall.  One  result  of 
the  legislation  of  1835  and  1836  was  to  induce  large 
numbers  of  Boers,  no  longer  able  to  do  exactly  as  they 
pleased  with  Kafir  and  Hottentot,  to  begin  those  migra- 
tions which  ultimately  settled  the  regions  afterwards  known 
as  the  Orange  Free  State  and  the  Transvaal. 

But  legislation,  even  when  on  just,  humane,  and  righteous 
lines,  could  only  begin  the  settlement  of  such  thorny  diffi- 
culties as  those  connected  with  the  Kafirs.  The  policy 
advocated  by  Dr.  Philip,  especially  in  the  later  develop- 
ments of  1S46  and  1H50,  can  only  be  fairly  judged  by 
never  losing  sight  of  the  fact  that  large  numbers  of  colonists, 
all  of  whom  had  direct  pecuniary  interest  in  the  results  of 
their  actions,  were  instant  in  season  and  out  of  season  in 
both  denouncing  and  in  seeking  to  reverse  it.  Under  these 
circumstances  it  is  more  remarkable  that  those  who  cared 
for  the  souls  of  the  natives  achieved  the  measure  of  success 
which  attended  their  efforts,  than  that  they  were  not  able 
steadily  and  progressively  to  enforce  their  views  more 
absolutely  over  the  whole  of  South  Africa 

Side  by  side  with  the  powerful  influence  exerted  upon 
public  opinion  in  Great  Britain,  and  upon  public  adminis- 
tration in  Cape  Colony,  Dr.  Philip  steadily  sustained  work 
at  the  various  stations  occupied  when  he  reached  Africa, 

I.  00 


562      DR.   PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :   1S20-1S50 

and  from  time  to  time  added  new  names  to  the  long  list. 
The  following  facts  outline  the  progress  made  in  direct  and 
special  missionary  work  during  the  stormy  epoch  of  1820 
to  1S50. 

I.  Pacaltsdorp.  Soon  after  the  death  of  Charles 
Pacalt.  its  founder,  on  November  26,  1818,  Mr.  J.  G.  Messer 
took  charge  of  this  station,  and  continued  to  labour  there 
until  the  end  of  1821.  At  this  time  there  was  an  average 
attendance  at  the  Sunday  services  of  about  300,  and  he 
also  instituted  a  Sunday  School  for  the  instruction  of 
slaves,  and  of  those  who  could  attend  only  on  that  day. 
In  January,  1822,  the  superintendence  passed  into  the 
hands  of  Mr.  William  Anderson,  the  veteran  Griqua  Town 
missionary,  who  brought  to  the  task  the  ripe  experience 
of  over  twenty  years  spent  in  close  contact  with  South 
African  natives.  Mr.  Pacalt  had  left  all  his  property,  in 
value  about  ;^300,  to  be  used  for  the  support  of  Christian 
work  at  his  own  greatly  loved  station.  This  money 
was  chiefly  devoted  to  the  building  of  a  suitable  place 
for  public  worship,  which  was  opened  in  June,  1825. 
Mr.  Anderson  continued  in  charge  of  Pacaltsdorp  until  his 
retirement  from  active  service  in  1848.  He  died  at  Pacalts- 
dorp on  September  24,  1852.  He  had  passed  forty-seven 
years  in  active  service.  He  was  one  of  the  pioneers  in 
one  of  the  hardest  of  African  fields,  and  one  of  the  most 
successful  of  Christian  workers.  During  his  twenty-seven 
years  as  superintendent  at  Pacaltsdorp  he  was  assisted 
by  a  succession  of  active  educational  workers,  such  as 
Mr.  Rogers  Edwards,  afterwards  of  Lattakoo,  Mr.  Thomas 
Edwards,  and  Mr.  Hood.  The  history  of  Pacaltsdorp  is 
one  of  the  most  satisfactory  on  the  Society's  book.  The 
founder  transformed  the  moral  and  spiritual  wilderness 
into  a  garden  and  died  there ;  while  Anderson  spent  the 
last  twenty-six  years  of  his  active  life  there,  most  of  his 
family  actively  co-operating  with  him  in  evangelical  and 
educational  work.  For  many  years  Pacaltsdorp  came 
nearest  to  the  ideal  of  the  founders  of  the  Society  as  to 
what    a   station   should    be.     Begun    in    prayer   and    self- 


PACALTSDORP  AND    THEOPOLIS  563 

sacrifice,  it  became  at  once  a  haven  of  refuge  for  the 
downtrodden  and  oppressed  ;  it  upHfted  and  instructed 
the  degraded,  forlorn,  and  ignorant  slaves  and  Hottentots  ; 
the  first  workers  linked  their  lives  inseparably  to  its 
interests,  and  very  many  proofs  were  granted  to  them  of 
the  transforming  and  renewing  power  of  the  Gospel. 
'  Pacaltsdorp,'  said  a  visitor  in  i<S3i,  ''  is  one  of  those  places 
on  which  the  eyes  look,  and  the  thoughts  dwell  with 
peculiar  feelings  and  associations.  .  .  .  Comparing  what  the 
place  was  when  the  mission  was  established  with  what  it 
now  is,  it  may  well  be  said,  "  What  hath  God  wrought  M 

2.  Theopolis,  sixty  miles  north-east  of  Bethelsdorp,  was 
begun  in  i  814  by  a  number  of  Hottentots  from  Bethelsdorp 
under  the  care  of  G.  Ullbricht  and  J.  Bartlett,  upon  land 
granted  for  the  purpose  by  the  then  governor,  Sir  John 
Cradock.  The  former  died  in  1821,  and  the  station  passed 
into  the  care  of  Mr.  George  Barker.  The  methods  of  work 
and  conditions  of  life  were  similar  to  those  at  Bethelsdorp. 
The  land  belonged  to  the  station,  and  formed  the  one 
secure  spot  for  Hottentots  in  all  that  region.  A  Christian 
church  was  constituted,  and  many  became  members  by  pro- 
fession of  love,  trust  in,  and  loyalty  to  Jesus  Christ.  In 
1827  the  work  had  progressed  so  as  to  require  a  new 
church  capable  of  seating  800  or  900  persons.  In  1829 
about  100  families  removed  to  the  '  Neutral  Territory.' 
In  1830  Mr.  Christopher  Sass  became  Mr.  Barker's  col- 
league, and  in  1839  the  latter  removed  to  Paarl.  Mr.  Sass. 
who  like  William  Anderson  was  an  Orange  River  veteran, 
remained  at  Theopolis  until  his  death  in  1849.  At  this 
station  also  educational  work  was  vigorou&ly  prosecuted. 
Being  beyond  the  limits  of  the  old  colony  and  on  the 
border  of  the  Kafir  territorv',  Theopolis  suffered  severely 
from  the  Kafir  wars. 

3.  Graham's  Town,  twenty-six  miles  from  Theopolis, 
and  seventy  from  Bethelsdorp,  was  founded  as  a  centre 
of  tiade  and  a  military  post  for  the  district  of  Alban\', 
as  it  was  then  called.     The  missionaries  at  once  recognized 

*  Evangelical  Magazine,  1S34,  p.  .vj. 
O  O  2 


564     DR.   PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :  1S20-1S50 

the  importance  of  the  post,  and  mission  work  was  begun 
there  in  1827  by  Mr.  John  Monro,  and  continued  by 
him  for  the  next  eleven  years.  He  ministered  both  to 
colonists  and  natives,  the  latter  consisting  of  Hottentots, 
Kafirs,  Mantatees,  and  other  tribes. 

4.  Hankey.  This  station,  so  prominent  in  the  story  of 
South  African  missions,  consisting  of  a  tract  of  land  stretch- 
ing along  both  sides  of  the  Gamtoos  River,  and  situated  about 
sixty  miles  from  Bethelsdorp,  was  purchased  for  ;^i,5oo  in 
1822.  It  was  designed  as  an  outlet  for  the  surplus  popu- 
lation, and  consisted  partly  of  pasture  land,  and  partly  of 
land  which  by  irrigation  could  be  made  fertile  and  fruitful. 
About  100  residents  of  Bethelsdorp  co-operated  with  the 
Society  in  the  purchase,  and  supplied  ;!^5oo  of  the  purchase 
money.  The  extent  of  the  station  was  4,100  acres.  The 
first  European  worker  was  J.  G.  Messer,  who  superintended 
the  station  from  1823  to  1831.  He  was  assisted  by 
Mr.  William  Foster,  who  was  sent  there  in  1826  to  estab- 
lish a  school  for  the  children  of  missionaries,  like  the  South 
Sea  Academy  described  on  pp.  296,  297,  and  to  superintend 
educational  work.  In  this  project  Mr.  Foster  was  unsuc- 
cessful, and  after  a  very  brief  spell  of  service  returned  to 
England  in  1829,  and  ceased  in  1830  to  be  connected  with 
the  Society.  Mr.  Messer  was  succeeded  by  Mr.  John 
Melvill,  who  laboured  there  till  1838.  Mr.  Edward 
Williams  carried  on  the  work  till  1842,  in  which  year 
William  Philip,  son  of  Dr.  Philip,  took  charge  of  the  station. 
He  greatly  improved  it  by  carrying  out  successfully  the 
great  engineering  feat  of  cutting  a  tunnel  through  a  moun- 
tain, thus  utilizing  the  water  of  the  Gamtoos  to  irrigate 
part  of  the  valley.  This  cost  ^^2,500,  of  which  the  Society 
gave  ;^5co,  the  rest  being  raised  from  the  rental  of  the  land. 
In  July,  1845,  Mr.  Philip  was  drowned  in  the  Gamtoos 
River,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  brother,  T.  Durant  Philip, 
who  remained  in  charge  of  the  station  until  1876. 

5.  Kat  River  Settlement.  Next  to  Bethelsdorp  itself 
this  station  became  the  object  of  most  bitter  and  envenomed 
attack.      To  this  the  site  chosen,  the  date  of  formation, 


KAT  RIVER  SETTLEMENT  565 

and  the  influence  which  the  settlement  began  to  exert  all 
contributed.  The  Kat  River  formed  in  1820  the  western 
boundary  of  Kafirland.  It  is  about  200  miles  north-east 
of  Bethelsdorp.  That  earnest  and  devoted  missionary, 
Joseph  Williams,  who  in  ]8i6  attempted  to  found  a  mission 
in  this  region,  died  in  181 8,  and  for  a  time  the  enterprise 
failed.  In  1829  the  Colonial  Government  authorized 
Captain  A.  Stockenstrom,  then  commissioner-general  on 
the  eastern  frontier,  to  execute  a  plan  which  he  himself 
proposed.  This  was  to  form  a  strong  Hottentot  settle- 
ment in  the  '  Neutral  Territory.'  The  spot  chosen  was 
a  tract  of  wild  country,  surrounded  by  mountains  whence 
the  streams  flow  which  form  the  Kat  River.  The  original 
idea  was  to  limit  the  selection  of  Hottentots  to  those  who 
by  character  and  intelligence  were  likely  to  make  good 
settlers.  But  so  great  was  the  inrush  of  Hottentots,  as 
soon  as  the  project  became  known,  that  this  principle  of 
selection  could  not  be  maintained.  The  first  location  con- 
sisted of  250  men,  capable  of  self-defence  should  they  be 
attacked  by  Kafirs.  This  was  in  1829,  and  in  the  same 
year  100  Hottentot  families  came  from  Theopolis,  and  forty 
from  Bethelsdorp,  bringing  with  them  their  cattle  and 
farming  implements.  The  plan  of  settlement  followed  on 
this  occasion  was  one  not  unfrequently  imitated  in  later 
times. 

'  The  plan  adopted  in  the  distribution  of  the  land  was  to 
divide  the  whole  tract  into  locations  of  from  4,000  to  6, ceo 
acres  each  ;  to  plant  in  each  location  one,  two,  or  more- 
villages,  as  eligible  situations  were  found  for  irrigation  ;  to 
divide  the  arable  land  into  allotments  of  from  four  to  six 
acres,  of  which  every  family  capable  of  cultivating  it  received 
one,  while  additional  lots  were  reserved  for  such  as  should 
distinguish  themselves  by  superior  industry,  or  by  their 
exertions  in  maintaining  good  order,  or  who  after  probation 
should  be  able  to  show  that  they  possessed  ample  means 
for  the  profitable  occupation  of  more  land.  The  pasture- 
land  was  reserved  for  commonage  to  each  location.  The 
conditions  to  grantees  were,  to  build  a  cottage,  to  enclose 


566      DR.    PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :   1820-1850 

the  arable  ground,  and  to  bring  it  under  proper  cultivation 
within  five  years  ;  at  the  expiration  of  which,  the  conditions 
being  fulfilled,  the  property  was  to  be  granted  in  freehold  ; 
but  if  these  conditions  were  neglected  the  allotment  to 
revert  to  the  Government.  Each  holder  to  have  a  right  to 
keep  live  stock  in  proportion  to  extent  of  arable  land  and 
the  capabilities  of  pasturage  \' 

At  first  the  Kafirs  were  hostile,  but  at  length  Makomo 
and  other  chiefs  became  friendly  with  the  settlers,  and  soon 
the  settlement  had  a  Hottentot  population  of  4,000.  The 
Government  appointed  a  minister  to  look  after  the  religious 
interests  of  the  people.  Mr.  Thompson  and  the  Hottentots 
from  the  missionary  institutions  requested  Mr.  James  Read 
from  Bethelsdorp  to  become  their  minister.  Mr.  Read, 
Vanderkemp's  colleague,  was  at  this  time  the  Society's 
senior  missionary  in  South  Africa,  he  having  already  spent 
twenty-nine  years  in  its  service.  The  village  which 
formed  the  centre  of  mission  work  was  called  Philipton, 
and  there  the  congregation  at  public  worship  on  Sunday 
amounted  to  about  1,000.  From  Philipton  natives  visited 
as  local  preachers  the  surrounding  districts,  especially 
Buxton  and  Wilberforce.  As  the  locations  were  widely 
scattered  educational  work  was  difficult.  At  Philipton 
Mr.  Read's  son — Mr.  James  Read,  junior — superintended 
the  day  school,  and  the  infant  school  was  taught  by  one 
of  the  missionary's  daughters.  In  the  various  villages  the 
best  educated  of  the  Hottentots  were  appointed  teachers. 

In  1835,  by  order  of  Colonel  Smith,  Mr.  Read  went  to 
Graham's  Town,  and  was  not  allowed  to  return  to  Philipton. 
He  visited  England  in  1836,  and  gave  evidence  before  the 
House  of  Commons  Committee  on  the  treatment  of  native 
races,  and  in  1838  returned  to  Kat  River.  There  he 
laboured  until  the  abandonment  and  destruction  of  the 
settlement  in  the  Kafir  War  of  1851. 

6.  Kaffraria.  In  i8ij6,  at  the  suggestion  of  Dr.  Philip, 
Mr.  John    Brownlee   recommenced   mission   work    in    this 

*  From  Pringlc's  Africaji  Sketches,  quoted  in  the  Evangelical  Review,  1834, 
pp.  294,  295. 


MISSION  IN  KAFFRARIA  567 

great  district.  He  had  reached  Cape  Town  in  181  7,  and 
after  a  short  period  of  work  at  Somerset  Farm,  while 
attempting  to  estabh'sh  a  mission  on  the  Chumie  River,  he 
became  at  the  close  of  181 8  a  Government  agent,  and 
resigned  his  connection  with  the  Society.  Seven  years 
later  Dr.  Philip  invited  him  to  resume  work  as  a  missionary, 
and  in  January,  1826,  with  Jan  Tzatzoe  as  his  helper,  he 
went  to  Buffalo  River.  There  he  began  his  new  labours 
on  the  spot  which  is  now  King  William's  Town.  The 
kraal  of  Tzatzoe's  father  was  here,  and  the  missionary  was 
heartily  welcomed  by  the  old  chief.  In  1827  he  was  joined 
by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Kayser  of  Halle,  who  left  him  in  1833  to 
found  a  new  station  on  the  Keiskamma  River,  and  in  1836 
Mr.  Kayser  went  to  Knapp's  Hope,  with  which  station  he 
was  identified  till  his  death  in  1859.  Brownlee  amid  all  the 
vicissitudes  through  which  the  district  passed  between  1834 
and  1851,  kept  steadily  at  work  in  King  William's  Town 
and  the  district,  until  in  1867  he  retired  from  active  service. 
Both  he  and  his  wife  died  there  in  1871.  From  Tzatzoe's 
kraal  as  a  centre  evangelistic  work  in  the  early  days  of  the 
mission  was  done  over  a  wide  area,  Mr.  Kayser  and  young 
Jan  Tzatzoe  visiting  large  numbers  of  Kafir  kraals.  The 
New  Testament  was  translated  into  Kafir  by  Mr.  Brownlee 
and  Mr.  Kayser. 

We  have  already  traced  the  early  Kafir  wars,  the 
legislation  of  1836,  and  the  intensely  hostile  spirit  in 
which  this  was  received.  With  the  change  of  Government 
in  England  came  a  change  of  colonial  policy.  It  was  not, 
happily  for  the  natives  of  South  Africa,  possible  to  entirely 
reverse  Lord  Glenelg's  policy,  but  all  that  could  be 
attempted  in  that  direction  was  done  by  the  Colonial 
Government  at  Cape  Town.  In  1846  war  again  broke  out 
with  the  Kafirs,  resulting  in  the  formal  annexation  of 
Kaffraria.  As  the  Wesleyan  Society  began  to  throw  so 
much  energy  into  their  mission  work  in  Kaffraria  the 
London  Missionary  Society  was  able  t(^  gradually  with- 
draw from  the  stations  it  had  occupied  there,  and  con- 
centrate its  efforts  upon  Bcchwanaland  and  Matabelcland. 


568      DR.   PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION:  1820-1850 

7.  Caledon  Institution.  This  station  was  for  a  time 
thrown  into  confusion  by  the  evil  conduct  of  John  Seiden- 
faden.  He  was  placed  in  charge  of  the  station  in  18 Ji. 
In  1819  Dr.  Philip  found  his  work  so  neglected,  and  his 
character  so  deteriorated,  that  he  removed  him.  But  the 
Government  refused  to  allow  a  successor  to  be  appointed, 
and  it  was  only  by  the  most  strenuous  exertions  that 
Dr.  Philip  averted  the  destruction  of  the  station.  For 
about  six  years  all  regular  mission  work  was  suspended, 
but  in  J 827  Mr.  Henry  Helm,  who  had  already  completed 
sixteen  years'  work  at  Kok's  Kraal,  Bethesda,  Griqua  Town, 
and  Bethelsdorp,  re-opened  the  institution.  Mr.  Helm  was 
the  first  member  in  the  African  field  of  a  family  which  has 
rendered  yeoman  service  in  the  century's  task  of  evangelizing 
Africa.  In  1 835  Daniel  J.  Helm,  son  of  Henry,  was  appointed 
to  co-operate  in  this  work  with  his  father,  who  died  in  1848. 
Daniel  then  conducted  the  affairs  of  the  institution  satis- 
factorily until  about  1859,  when  the  station  became  self- 
supporting.     He  died  there  in  1873. 

8.  The  other  stations,  which  during  this  period  continued 
centres  of  missionary  activity,  were  Paarl,  Tulbagh,  Dyssels- 
dorp,  Port  Elizabeth,  Uitenhage,  Graafif  Reinet,  Colesberg, 
Somerset,  Cradock,  and  Fort  Beaufort. 

At  these  centres  the  work  proceeded,  successfully  at 
some,  unsuccessfully  at  others,  and  with  varying  retro- 
gression and  progression  at  others.  Between  1840  and 
1850,  the  financial  position  of  the  Society  led  the  Directors 
to  urge  upon  the  churches  within  the  Colony  the  view  that 
the  time  had  come  for  them  to  relieve  the  home  organiza- 
tion of  any  further  expenditure.  This  appeal  and  its 
consequences  we  will  trace  in  the  next  chapter. 

After  twenty-seven  years  of  active  and  resourceful  labour. 
Dr.  Philip  was  beginning  to  feel  severely  the  combined 
pressure  of  advancing  years  and  of  personal  sorrows. 
After  the  sad  and  sudden  death,  in  1845,  of  his  son 
William,  the  doctor  sent  to  the  Directors  his  resignation, 
and  only  at  their  most  earnest  request  withdrew  it  for  a 
time.     In  1844  Mr.  J.  C.  Brown  had  arrived  from  England 


DR.   PHILIP'S   CLOSING    YEARS  569 

to  take  charge  of  Union  Chapel,  Cape  Town,  but  did  not 
afford  Dr.  Phihp  the  relief  he  had  looked  for,  since  he 
relinquished  work  there  at  the  close  of  i«S47.  Then 
Mr.  Elliott,  of  Barrack  Street  Chapel,  for  a  while  under- 
took the  duties  at  Union  Chapel.  On  October  23,  1847, 
Mrs.  Philip  died.  She  was  in  many  ways  a  remarkable 
woman.  In  addition  to  all  the  work  falling  within  her 
legitimate  sphere,  from  a  very  early  date  she  entirely 
relieved  Dr.  Philip  of  all  correspondence  with  the  Directors 
on  the  details  of  finance.  She  kept  all  the  extensive  and 
complicated  accounts  of  the  South  African  Mission,  and 
was  a  business-like  woman  of  a  very  unusual  type.  Not- 
withstanding most  urgent  appeals  from  Dr.  Philip,  for 
reasons  soon  to  appear,  no  competent  successor  was 
appointed.  He  paid  a  long  visit  to  Hankey,  and,  owing 
partly  to  his  increasing  weakness,  and  partly  to  Mrs.  Philip's 
death,  the  affairs  of  the  mission  generally  began  to  fall  into 
confusion.  On  July  J  8,  1848,  he  wrote  home,  'I  beg  you 
to  recollect  that  I  am  working  in  the  service  of  the  Society 
with  one  foot  in  the  grave  and  the  other  in  heaven.'  Just 
at  this  time  the  controversy,  long  maintained,  commenced 
on  the  question  of  leaving  the  stations  within  the  Colony 
to  support  themselves,  the  Society  using  its  funds  and 
resources  only  to  forward  the  work  of  the  Gospel  among 
the  Bcchwanas,  and  to  carry  it  to  tribes  and  regions  yet 
unvisited.  Had  Dr.  Philip  been  twenty  years  younger,  he 
would  undoubtedly  have  exerted  a  powerful  controlling 
influence  over  a  discussion  which  served  only,  so  far  as  he 
was  concerned,  to  disturb  the  closing  months  of  his  life. 
At  length  the  right  successor  to  Dr.  Philip  appeared  in  the 
person  of  the  Rev.  William  Thompson,  who  had  spent  the 
years  J  837  to  1840,  and  i84i  to  1848,  in  mission  work  at 
Bellary,  in  South  India.  He  accepted  the  pastorate  of 
Union  Chapel,  Cape  Town,  where  he  began  work  in  June, 
1850.  He  thus  ceased  to  be  on  the  Society's  staff  as 
a  missionary,  but  he  was  also  appointed,  in  succession  to 
Dr.  Philip,  Agent  at  Cape  Town  for  the  South  African 
missions  of  the  Society.     J^y  him  the  affairs  of  the  missions 


570 


DR.   PHILIP'S  ADMINISTRATION :  1820-1850 


in  the  Colony  were  directed  with  great  devotion,  wisdom, 
and  success,  during  the  stormy  and  troublesome  period  of 
the  twenty-five  years  from  1850  to  1H75.  Dr.  Philip  died 
at  Hankey,  August  27,  1851. 

The  death  of  Dr.  Philip  closed  a  life  that  will  ever  be 
memorable  in  South  Africa.  When  he  first  set  foot  on  its 
soil  in  18 19,  the  Hottentots  and  other  native  tribes  in  and 
near  Cape  Colony  had  practically  no  rights,  and  were  in 
a  worse  position  than  the  slaves.  When  he  died  in  1851, 
largely  as  the  result  of  his  own  clear,  wise,  bold,  and  per- 
sistent efforts,  the  liberties  they  now  enjoy  were  secured 
and  rendered  permanent.  When  he  took  up  the  reins  in 
1819,  the  affairs  of  almost  every  station  needed  the  most 
careful  attention.  He  brought  order  out  of  chaos,  he 
imparted  the  impulse  of  his  own  vigorous  personality  to 
those  who  lacked  a  stimulus,  he  consolidated  and  developed 
mission  work,  notwithstanding  the  weakness  caused  by 
the  folly  of  some  of  its  friends,  and  the  hindrances  thrown 
in  its  path  by  those  whose  bitter  hatred  nothing  could 
remove.  His  rule  was  not  always  wholly  acceptable 
to  those  who  came  within  its  scope,  but  it  was  always  the 
rule  of  a  strong  man,  of  one  who  loved  the  truth,  who 
fought  for  freedom,  and  who  was  as  ready  to  resist  injustice 
in  the  highest  places  as  he  was  to  stretch  out  the  hand  of 
brotherly  help  to  the  lowest  and  most  degraded  savage  or 
slave.  Although  in  the  twenty-seven  years  he  fought  many 
a  sturdy  conflict,  he  was  not  quick  to  enter  into  a  struggle, 
but  being  in  he  bore  himself  so  that  those  who  opposed 
him  were  likely  to  remember  his  prowess.  On  the  founda- 
tion laid  by  Vanderkemp  he  raised  strong  and  fair  the 
structure  of  human  freedom. 

Dr.  Philip's  departure  was  closely  preceded  by  the  death 
of  a  good  comrade  in  arms  and  a  veteran  in  service,  and 
.still  more  closely  succeeded  by  another.  In  1848  James 
Kitchingman  died;  in  1852  James  Read.  It  was  to 
Kitchingman  that  Dr.  Philip  turned  when  in  1821  he  was 
.striving  to  infuse  new  life  and  hope  into  the  discouraged 
and  despondent  dwellers  at  Bethelsdorp.     There  he  toiled 


DEATH  OF  JAMES  READ  571 

with  success  from  1821  to  1826,  and  again  from  1832  to 
the  close  of  his  active  service.  James  Read's  name  has 
appeared  constantly  in  this  narrative,  and  his  life  story 
covers  the  whole  of  the  first  half-century.  His  work  had 
been  done  in  what  Mr.  Thompson  calls,  in  the  letter  dated 
May  29,  1852,  announcing  his  decease,  'the  high  places  of 
the  field.'  With  Vanderkemp  he  founded  Bethelsdorp,  and 
after  the  doctor's  death  he  carried  on  that  work.  With 
Campbell  he  made  the  memorable  first  journey  to  Lattakoo, 
and  later  on  he  began  the  Lattakoo  Mission.  Though  for 
a  time  the  object  of  bitter  calumny,  he  lived  patiently 
through  the  season  of  cloud  and  darkness.  He  was  the 
central  missionary  infiuence  in  the  Kat  River  Settlement. 
So  eager  was  he  to  influence  the  natives  to  whom  he  had 
consecrated  his  life,  that  he  chose  a  despised  Hottentot  for 
his  own  wife,  allying  himself  with  her  in  the  hope  that  he 
might  thus  gain  greater  influence  for  good.  Thus  his 
African  service  of  fifty  years  passed  in  '  the  very  seat  of 
missionary  warfare.'  '  Few  men,'  wrote  Mr.  Thompson, 
'  have  been  assailed  to  the  degree  he  was  when  in  the 
prosecution  of  his  self-denying  labours,  few  have  been  less 
vulnerable  than  he,  and  there  have  been  few  men  whose 
characters  have  risen  more  triumphant  than  his  over  the 
misconception  and  worse  malice  and  misrepresentation  of 
unthinking  or  wicked  men.' 

[Authorities. — Letters  nnd  Official  Reports;  Transactions  of  tlie  Sotiely, 
vols,  v-viii;  Researches  in  South  Africa;  illustrating  tlic  Civile  Moral,  and 
Religious  Condition  of  the  Native  Tribes:  including  Journals  of  the  Author  s 
Travels  into  the  Interior,  by  the  Rev.  John  Philip,  D.D.,  in  two  volumes, 
Loiulon,  1S28;  Report  of  the  Select  Comviittec  on  Aborigines  British  Settle- 
ments^ ordered  to  be  printed  1S37,  4  vols,  folio;  Travels  in  South  Africa, 
by  John  Campbell,  2  vols,  octavo,  London,  1S22.] 


CHAPTER    XXI 

THE    RELINQUISHMENT   OF   WORK    IN    CAPE   COLONY 

A  CONTROVERSY  which  exerted  considerable  influence 
upon  the  Society's  policy  in  South  Africa,  was  developed 
by  a  letter  published  in  Evangelical  Christendom  for  June, 
184(8.  It  was  from  the  pen  of  Mr.  W.  Elliott,  who  had 
been  a  member  of  Dr.  Philip's  congregation  at  Union 
Chapel,  Cape  Town,  and  who  had  gone  in  1821  as  a  mis- 
sionary to  Johanna,  one  of  the  Comoro  Islands.  He 
returned  to  Cape  Town  in  1822,  visited  England,  where  he 
was  ordained  in  1824,  and  in  1825  undertook  work  at  Cape 
Town  as  an  agent  of  the  South  African  Society.  In  1828 
he  was  placed  on  the  permanent  staff  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society;  and  in  1830  took  charge  for  a  year  of 
the  Caledon  Institution.  From  1831  to  1839  he  was  at 
Paarl,  in  1839-40  at  Uitenhage,  and  from  1840  to  1846 
at  Tulbagh.  In  1846  he  revisited  England,  and  in  1847 
became  pastor  of  Barrack  Street  Chapel,  Cape  Town.  He 
had,  with  one  exception,  laboured  for  but  a  brief  period  at 
each  station  ;  but  in  the  course  of  twenty-seven  years  he 
had  seen  much  of  the  working  of  South  African  missions, 
and  thought  himself  fully  entitled  to  express  with  authority 
his  views  upon  them. 

Mr.  Elliotts  letter  fanned  into  a  flame  a  controversy 
which  had  long  been  smouldering.  After  fully  recognizing 
the  imperative  necessity  for  the  missionary  institutions  and 


THE  MISSIONARY  INSTITUTIONS  573 

the  great  and  good  work  done  by  them  in  the  past,  the 
letter  continued  : — 

'The  case  is  now  completely  altered.  The  rights  and 
liberties  of  the  Hottentot  are  recognized  and  protected  by 
colonial  law;  he,  like  any  other  man,  may  go  where  he 
pleases,  without  a  pass,  and  take  his  labour  or  his  produce 
to  the  best  market.  He  needs  no  city  of  refuge.  In  pro- 
portion as  the  necessity  of  our  missionary  institutions  has 
been  superseded  by  the  altered  state  of  things,  the  evils 
incident  to  them  have  been  increased.  The  authority  of 
the  missionary  has  been  diminished  ;  the  population  of  the 
missionary  institutions  has  become  injuriously  dense,  by 
a  vast  influx  of  late  apprentices  and  other  persons  of  colour, 
who  prefer  abundant  leisure  and  unrestrained  freedom,  to 
those  habits  of  industry,  and  those  salutary  restraints,  which 
must  be  sustained  and  submitted  to  in  ordinary  social  life  ; 
and  multitudes  of  young  persons  are  growing  up  in  habits 
which  render  them  as  incapable  of  useful  and  profitable 
employment,  as  they  are  indisposed  to  it.  A  vast  amount 
of  labour  is  thus  withdrawn  from  the  towns,  villages,  and 
agricultural  districts,  without  any  corresponding  advantage 
being  realized  by  the  labourers  themselves.  The  present 
state  of  our  missionary  institutions,  then,  points  to  the 
extreme  desirableness,  not  to  say  the  absolute  necessity,  of 
a  complete  change  in  their  construction  and  management.' 

Mr.  Elliott,  in  later  letters,  made  it  evident  that  he  did 
not  desire  the  abandonment,  but  only  a  wise  reform  of 
these  institutions.  This  fact,  however,  was  not  made  plain 
in  the  first  letter  printed.  His  statements  attracted  much 
attention  both  at  home  and  in  the  colony,  and  the\' 
synchronized  with  a  difficult  condition  of  financial  matters 
in  the  Society's  affairs.  Expenditure  had  been  greatly  in 
excess  of  income.  Many  subscribers  in  Great  Britain  felt 
strongly  that,  after  fifty  years  of  support,  the  colonial 
missionary  churches  ought  to  be  able  to  walk  alone. 
These  views  were  influcntially  advocated  on  the  Board  of 
Directors. 

The  pressure  of  financial  difficulties,  combined  with  the 


574   RELINQUISHMENT  OF  WORK  IN  CAPE  COLONY 

conviction  held  by  many,  that  the  time  had  come  for  the 
older  South  African  missions  to  become  self-supporting,  led 
the  Board  u\  1853,  through  Mr.  Thompson,  to  send  out  a 
circular  to  all  their  African  missionaries  to  ascertain  whether. 
in  their  opinion,  the  various  stations  could  now  be  safely 
left  to  themselves.  The  reply  sent  by  Moffat  and  Living- 
stone, from  which  we  extract  a  few  sentences^  embodies 
the  policy  which  was  afterwards  steadily  pursued.  '  We 
believe,'  they  say,  '  that  the  Colony  has  ceased  to  present 
the  temporal  and  spiritual  destitution  which  are  understood 
to  entitle  a  country  to  be  treated  as  a  missionary  field  by 
our  Society.  And  the  prompt  establishment  of  the  pas- 
toral relationship  in  all  its  bearings  is  the  only  measure 
which  either  here  or  at  home  is  likely  to  receive  a  con- 
tinuance of  public  confidence  and  support.  .  .  .  We  can 
attest,  from  our  personal  knowledge  and  observation,  that 
the  members  of  the  Colonial  and  Griqua  mission  churches 
are,  i\\  point  of  temporal  comfort  and  educational  advan- 
tages, decidedly  better  provided  for  than  the  majority  of 
the  members  of  independent  churches  at  home  ;  and  con- 
sequently no  shyness  need  be  experienced  by  them  in 
accepting  the  honour  of  the  entire  support  of  their  pastors.' 

In  1855  the  Rev.  W.  Ellis  visited,  on  behalf  of  the 
Directors,  all  the  stations  within  the  Colony^.  His  mission 
was  to  examine  into  the  present  state  of  affairs  at  each 
station,  to  converse  with  the  missionaries,  native  workers, 
and  adherents,  and  then  to  prepare  a  report  for  the  guid- 
ance of  the  Board. 

How  difficult  and  delicate  a  problem  the  Directors  found 
the  withdrawal  of  financial  aid  from  churches  founded,  and 
so  long  sustained  by  the  Society,  is  indicated  in  the  reso- 
lutions they  adopted  after  consideration  of  Mr.  Ellis's 
report.  In  their  Report  for  1856  they  state:  'In  urging 
the  native  churches  of  South  Africa  to  the  duty  of  self- 
support,  the  Directors  have  not  only  been  anxious  to  honour 
a  Divine  Ordinance,  and  to  econor^nze  their  funds  for  the 

Mr.  Ellis  gives  a  sketch  of  this  journey  in  his  Three  Visils  to  Madagascar 
(^858),  pp.  193-251. 


BOARD   RESOLUTIONS   ON  SELF-SUPPORT     575 

spiritual  welfare  of  millions  who  are  still  dark  and  miser- 
able as  the  Hottentots  were  in  1798,  but  they  are  also 
convinced  that  a  state  of  dependence  is  most  unfavourable 
to  the  vigour  and  usefulness  of  Christian  churches ;  and 
that,  beyond  the  limits  of  absolute  necessity,  foreign  assis- 
tance is  a  real  evil  rather  than  a  benefit.  But  the  Directors 
are  aware  that  these  principles  may  be  applied  prematurely, 
and  the  advantages  secured  by  years  of  labour  be  precipi- 
tately sacrificed.' 

These  views  were  embodied  in  five  resolutions  adopted 
by  the  Board.  The  first  expressed  satisfaction  at  the 
recognition  by  the  churches  of  their  responsibility,  and  the 
fact  that  some  w^ere  already  self-supporting.  The  second 
affirmed  the  continuance  of  '  parental  affection  '  and  desire 
'to  maintain  with  them  affectionate  correspondence,  and  t(^ 
publish  in  their  Annual  Report  their  position  and  pros- 
pects.' The  third  expressed  readiness  to  transfer  the 
Society's  property  in  chapels,  schools,  and  mission-houses 
'  to  trustees  for  the  sole  use  and  occupation  of  the  churches 
who  carry  out  the  scriptural  principle  of  self-support.' 
The  fourth  pledged  the  Directors  to  give  '  such  temporary 
aid  as  their  funds  will  admit '  in  seasons  of  special  difficulty 
and  trial.  The  fifth  conserved  the  beneficial  privileges  of 
all  existing  pastors  with  their  widows  and  children. 

The  direct  result  of  this  action  was  that  a  few  churches 
at  once  ceased  to  depend  any  longer  upon  home  assis- 
tance, and  the  others  began  to  contribute  larger  sums  to 
the  support  of  Christian  work  than  they  had  ever  raised 
before.  Further,  while  the  work  of  withdrawing  financial 
support  was  carefully  and  sympathetically  carried  out  by  the 
Directors,  they  continued  to  manifest  sympathy  towards 
the  churches,  and,  in  not  a  few  cases,  to  give  financial  aid 
also.  How  gradually  the  work  of  self-support  was  accom- 
plished the  facts  show.  Although  the  stations  of  Swellen- 
dam,Stellenbosch,Bosjeveld,and  Tulbagh  appear  frequently 
in  the  early  reports,  about  1813  these  stations  became  the 
care  of  the  Rhenish  Missionary  Society,  and  any  aid  they 
received  from   the   London    Society   after    that    date   was 


576   RELINQUISHMENT  OF  WORK  IN  CAPE  COLONY 

special  and  occasional,  not  regular.  In  1849  Theopolis, 
having  been  destroyed  in  the  Kafir  War,  was  abandoned, 
and  never  again  came,  as  before,  upon  the  Society's  funds. 
In  1853  Colesberg  and  Beaufort,  and  in  1855  Philippolis, 
Dysselsdorp,  Oudtshoorn,  and  George  Town,  became  self- 
supporting.  In  most  of  the  other  stations  after  the  year 
1 CS55  the  greater  portion,  if  not  the  whole,  of  the  expenses 
was  supplied  by  local  effort,  the  Society  paying  the  salary 
of  the  resident  missionary  only  when  special  circumstances 
rendered  it  impossible  for  the  natives  to  do  so.  But  long 
years  passed  before  all  direct  connection  with  the  remain- 
ing stations  ceased. 

In  consequence  of  the  renewed  attention  directed  towards 
the  institutions  by  the  reports  of  the  missionaries,  by 
action  in  the  Cape  Legislature,  and  by  the  fact  that  some 
of  them,  so  far  from  becoming  self-supporting,  were  again 
increasing  their  requisitions  for  funds  from  the  Society, 
further  action  was  taken  by  the  Board  in  1868.  Under 
the  leadership  of  Dr.  Mullens,  at  that  period  all  the  foreign 
fields  were  carefully  and  thoroughly  considered.  As  a 
consequence,  on  Nov.  2,  1868,  the  Board  dispatched  to  all 
the  missionaries  in  South  Africa  the  fifth  in  a  series  known 
as  the  Budget  Dispatches  ^  This  dispatch  set  forth  the 
reasons  which  had  led  the  Board  to  pass  new  regulations 
for  the  governance  of  the  mission.  The  chief  of  these 
were  :  — 

i.  That  the  mission  should  be  carried  on  under  the 
principles  recently  adopted  in  the  West  Indies,  due 
regard  being  paid  to  the  relations  existing  between  several 
missionaries  and  the  churches  of  which  they  are  pastors. 

2.  That  wherever  possible  the  smaller  stations  be  put 
under  evangelists,  the  missionaries,  as  a  rule,  in  the  colonial 
towns. 

3.  That  every  effort  be  made  to  develop  a  native 
pastorate. 

4.  That  an  income  be  guaranteed  to  all  the  missionaries 

'  .See  on  this  whole  question  the  Chapter  upon  the  later  home  administration 
in  Vol.  II. 


COLONIAL   COMMISSION,   1868  sil 

in  the  field,  all  efforts  on  their  part  to  increase  their  means 
by  trading  to  entirely  cease. 

5.  That  every  effort  be  made  to  revive  primary  education, 
and  a  grant  not  exceeding  ^^50  a  year  be  made  to  each 
head  station. 

In  the  Colony  the  Directors  appointed  a  Commission 
consisting  of  the  Rev.  VV.  Thompson,  T.  Durant  Philip, 
and  E.  Solomon,  to  visit  all  the  institutions  with  a  view 
to  ascertain  what  steps  could  be  taken,  in  conjunction  with 
the  natives  resident  at  them,  to  transfer  the  freehold  of 
the  land  to  the  latter,  thus  setting  the  missionary  free  to 
attend  entirely  to  religious  and  educational  work.  During 
the  last  quarter  of  1868  the  Commission  visited  Bethels- 
dorp,  Hankey,  Kruis  Fontein,  Dysselsdorp.  Oudtshoorn, 
Pacaltsdorp,  and  Zuurbraak.  At  each  place  the  proposals 
for  the  future  regulation  of  the  institutions  were  carefully 
explained  to  the  people ;  they  were  encouraged  to  discuss 
them  freely  both  in  presence  of  the  Commission,  and  also 
by  themselves,  and  then  a  vote  was  taken.  In  every  case 
a  large  majority  voted  in  favour  of  the  new  proposals. 
At  most  of  the  meetings  a  Civil  Commissioner  was  present 
by  request  of  the  governor,  to  be  the  medium  of  any 
communications  the  people  might  wish  to  make  direct  to 
his  Excellency.  After  these  meetings  were  concluded,  the 
Commission  had  several  interviews  with  the  governor,  and 
finally  drafted,  signed,  and  submitted  to  him  their  Report. 

This  Report  ultimately  came  under  the  consideration 
of  the  Cape  Parliament,  and  led  to  the  introduction  of 
the  Missionary  Institutions  Rill  on  May  1,  1872.  This 
was  referred  to  a  Select  Committee,  consisting  of  the 
Colonial  Secretary,  with  Messrs.  Moodie,  Shawe.  Ayliffe, 
Harry.  Sprigg,  and  Saul  Solomon,  to  take  evidence  on  the 
question.  Of  this  Committee  Saul  Solomon,  Esq.,  was 
chairman  ;  and  their  Report  was  printed  by  order  of  the 
House  of  Assembly  in  June,  1872.  It  is  a  document  of 
seventy-six  printed  pages,  and  formed  the  basis  of  the  Act 
pa.ssed  in  July,  1873,  which  sanctioned  the  carrying  cut 
of  the  recommendations  of  both  the  Society's  Commission 

I.  P  p 


578   RELINQUISHMENT  OF  WORK  IN  CAPE  COLONY 

and  the  Assembly's  Committee.  The  chief  of  these  dealt 
with  the  gradual  transfer  of  the  freehold  of  the  lands  of 
the  institutions  to  the  natives  themselves,  thus  relieving  the 
missionaries  from  many  troublesome  business  matters  and 
mao-isterial  duties.  It  also  checked  the  tendency  for  these 
institutions  to  become  a  refuge  for  the  indolent  and  the 
ne'er-do-well.  In  consequence  of  this  legislation  the 
process  for  withdrawing  the  Society's  aid  from  churches 
within  the  Colony  was  completed.  Kruis  Fontein,  Hope 
Dale,  and  Ox  Kraal  had  become  independent  in  1870; 
Philipton  and  Graham's  Town  in  1871  ;  Zuurbraak  in 
1873.  After  the  passing  of  the  Bill  Port  Elizabeth  became 
independent  in  1874;  Paarl,  Cradock,  and  Hankey  in 
1876;  Pacaltsdorp  in  1878;  Bethelsdorp  in  1880;  and 
Uitenhage  and  Graaff  Reinet  in  1882.  All  of  these,  except 
Hankey,  have  continued  work  without  further  aid  from 
London.  The  property  connected  with  these  institutions 
— the  lands  owned  and  the  buildings  for  public  use — is 
still  vested  in  the  Society.  The  natives  have  been  slow 
to  avail  themselves  of  the  opportunities  offered  to  secure 
the  freehold  of  the  land  ;  and  desirable  and  efficient 
trustees  of  the  local  property  have  so  far  proved  un- 
attainable. 

The    Report   for    1881  ^    thus    refers   to   the  close   of  a 
memorable  and  important  department  of  service  : — 

'  The  Society  has,  within  the  last  ten  years,  been  able 
to  rid  itself  of  the  responsibilities  connected  with  the 
landed  estates  which  it  possessed  during  the  early  period 
of  work  in  Cape  Colony.  The  whole  of  the  older  stations 
are  now  self-supporting,  and  the  three  missionaries  who 
still  represent  the  Society  within  the  Colony  (at  Oudtshoorn, 
Uitenhage,  and  Graaff  Reinet)  receive  such  support  because 
they  carry  on  purely  evangelistic  work.  The  Rev.  B.  E. 
Anderson,  of  Oudtshoorn,  states  that  his  people  during 
1 880  opened  a  new  church,  seating  1,200,  contributing 
;{^  1,250  out  of  a  total  cost  of  ;^i,5oo.  In  addition  they 
contributed  ;^3CO  for  their  pastor,  £\2   for  the   Society, 

^  Page  19. 


THE  HANKEY  SETTLEMENT  579 

£%^  for  the  poor,  and  £0^0  for  a  teacher.  And  yet  it  is 
not  many  years  since  these  people  were  in  extreme  poverty 
and  ignorance,  from  which  condition  they  were  elevated 
by  the  missionary  who  now  enjoys  their  confidence.' 

Hankey  has  been  the  only  station  within  the  Colony 
at  which  the  Society  has  been  constrained  to  resume 
work. 

'In  1^75  the  lands  were  offered  for  sale  to  the  tenants 
on  very  easy  terms,  in  the  hope  that  a  fresh  stimulus 
would  be  given  to  flagging  industry  by  the  desire  to 
become  proprietors.  This  hope  has  not  yet  been  realized. 
The  European  purchasers  of  land  in  most  cases  appear  to 
have  had  no  intention  of  residing  on  the  place.  Their 
influence  for  good  has,  therefore,  been  very  small.  The 
native  purchasers,  accustomed  through  many  years  to  the 
easy  lot  of  tenants  under  a  religious  society,  did  not  seem 
to  realize  that  purchase  meant  the  responsibility  of  pay- 
ment, and  made  little  effort  to  discharge  their  obligations. 
The  time  for  final  settlement  was  extended  more  than  once, 
and  at  length,  in  1888,  it  became  necessary  to  reclaim  the 
possession  of  a  considerable  part  of  the  lands  upon  which 
neither  purchase-money  nor  interest  had  been  paid,  the 
people  who  had  occupied  and  tilled  the  soil  being  in  most 
cases  well  content  to  resume  the  position  of  tenants  under 
a  much  stricter  rule  of  tenancy  than  had  been  enforced 
before. 

'The  social  and  religious  history  of  the  community  has 
not  been  more  satisfactory  than  their  relation  to  the  land. 
Too  much  isolated,  too  much  on  the  same  level  with  each 
other,  and  too  easily  able  in  ordinary  seasons  to  get  sub- 
sistence from  their  plots  of  land,  all  healthy  ambition  and 
stimulus  to  improvement  was  wanting.  They  became 
known  in  the  neighbourhood  for  indolence  and  unrcliablc- 
ness.  Meanwhile  they  were  in  church  life  left  to  indepen- 
dence of  the  Society,  and  under  such  conditions  were 
unfitted  for  such  a  position.  They  had  two  pastors  after 
Mr.  Philip  left  them,  and  their  relations  to  both  were 
unhappy.     When  the  Rev.  H.  Kayser  removed  to  Knapp's 

I'  p  2 


580   RELINQUISHMENT  OF  WORK  IN  CAPE  COLONY 

Hope  in  1890,  the  Directors  felt  the  time  had  come  when 
they  must  take  some  decisive  action  for  the  good  of  the 
people  as  well  as  in  the  interests  of  the  Society.  A  busi- 
ness agent  had  already  been  appointed  to  look  after  the 
property  and  collect  the  rents,  but  it  was  evident  that 
there  would  be  no  real  improvement  except  as  the  result 
of  a  great  change  in  their  moral  and  spiritual  con- 
dition. They  decided,  therefore,  though  with  very  great 
reluctance,  to  resume  for  a  time  the  spiritual  oversight  of 
the  people.' 

During  1891  the  station  was  put  under  the  care  of 
Mr.  Mackenzie.  Considerable  sums  have  been  spent  with 
the  object  of  rendering  the  land  more  serviceable  and 
consequently  more  valuable.  There  has  also  been  improve- 
ment in  the  moral  and  spiritual  condition  of  the  station. 
In  1895  it  had  one  ordained  native  agent,  one  native 
preacher,  one  teacher,  175  Church  members,  and  1,000 
adherents.  The  local  contributions  for  1894  amounted 
to  ;^107. 

In  this  gradual  way  the  Society  has  freed  itself  from 
almost  all  responsibility  within  the  Colony,  with  the  purpose 
and  earnest  resolve  to  give  itself  energetically  to  the  great 
task  of  consolidating  its  influence  in  Bechwanaland,  and 
of  evangelizing  Matabeleland  and  Central  Africa.  She 
parted  from  her  firstborn  South  African  children  with 
regret,  but  she  did  it  in  the  full  belief  that  it  was  better 
for  them  to  walk  alone.  She  began  the  work,  and  for 
long  years  maintained  it.  Of  the  way  in  which  it  has 
grown  since  it  has  been  thrown  entirely  on  local  resources, 
many  instances  might  be  given.     One  must  suffice  : 

*  Now  that  the  missions  of  the  Society  in  South  Africa 
are  entirely  confined  to  the  tribes  in  Bechwanaland  and 
Matabeleland,  it  is  well  that  from  time  to  time  the  sup- 
porters of  the  Society  should  be  reminded  of  the  earlier 
work  in  the  Cape  Colony,  and  of  the  condition  of  some  of 
those  Christian  communities  which  owe  their  existence  to 
the  labours  of  the  Society's  earlier  missionaries,  though 
they  arc  now  entirely  self-supporting  and   self-governing. 


DEATH  OF  W.    THOMPSON  581 

The  Rev.  Charles  Phillips,  late  of  the  Samoaii  Mission, 
who  undertook  the  charge  of  the  native  Congregational 
church  at  Graaff  Reinet  at  the  beginning  of  i^H9,  has 
furnished  some  statistics  of  the  present  position  of  these 
former  mission  churches,  as  well  as  a  brief  account  of  his 
own  sphere  of  labour.  His  statements  afford  material  for 
serious  and  grateful  reflection. 

*  "  I  am  often  struck,  when  I  think  of  the  remarkable  extent 
to  which  work  among  the  various  races  of  South  Africa 
has  developed  and  the  great  results  attained,  with  the 
splendid  way  in  which  the  early  missionaries  of  the  Society 
laboured,  and  the  good  foundation  on  which  to  build  up 
successful  churches  which  they  laid.  We  have  at  present 
in  Cape  Colony  alone  some  45  stations  and  76  out-stations, 
accommodating  25,000  people,  with  about  lo.coo  commu- 
nicants and  32,000  adherents,  and  this  work  rapidly  spread- 
ing as  the  result  of  the  Society's  labours  in  South  Africa."' 

On  May  8,  18CS9,  the  Rev.  W.  Thompson  died  at  Cape 
Town.  He  had  been  compelled  in  the  preceding  year,  by 
increasing  infirmity,  to  resign  his  official  connection  with 
the  Society's  work,  after  no  less  than  thirty-eight  years' 
labour  at  the  Cape.  He  was  a  worthy  successor  of 
Dr.  Philip,  and  conducted  to  its  completion  the  great 
warfare  on  behalf  of  native  rights.  As  minister  of  Union 
Chapel,  as  financial  agent  of  the  Society,  as  adviser  of 
many  leading  members  of  the  Cape  Legislature,  as  the 
friend  and  host  of  missionaries  passing  through  Cape 
Town,  he  filled  many  parts,  and  he  filled  them  all  faith- 
fully and  well.  In  1853  he  was  burnt  in  effigy  in  the 
streets  of  Graham's  Town  because  of  his  energetic  mainten- 
ance of  native  rights.  In  1889  the  Prime  Minister  of  Cape 
Colony  and  man}'  of  its  leading  citizens  followed  his  coffin. 
The  developments  and  changes  with  which  this  chapter 
has  dealt  were  largely  influenced  by  his  sound  judgment  ; 
and  the  measure  of  success  which  has  attended  them  was 
largely  the  result  of  his  energy  and  skill. 


CHAPTER    XXII 

KURUMAN:    1818-1895 

Robert  Moffat  reached  Cape  Town  in  January,  1817. 
His  intention  of  at  once  proceeding  to  Great  Namaqualand 
was  frustrated  by  the  colonial  authorities,  who  were  then 
objecting  to  missionary  enterprise  on  the  ground  that 
mission  stations  became  refuges  for  runaway  slaves.  After 
some  months'  delay  this  prohibition  was  withdrawn,  and 
Moffat,  with  James  Kitchingman  and  John  Ebner,  left 
Cape  Town  on  October  22,  1817  ^.  Kitchingman  was  left 
at  Byzondurmeid  (Steinkopff),  where  he  laboured  till  1821. 
Moffat  reached  Africaner's  kraal  on  January  26,  1818. 
The  journey,  like  all  the  early  visits  to  the  interior,  was 
a  long  succession  of  hardships  and  suffering.  At  one  stage 
Moffat  says  '  we  travelled  about  eight  days,  seeing  nothing 
but  barren  hills,  and  we  certainly  must  have  suffered  much 
here  for  the  want  of  water  had  God  not  been  graciously 
pleased  to  give  us  a  supply  of  thunder  showers.'  The  latter 
part  of  the  journey  Moffat  had  to  take  accompanied  by 
natives  only.  They  lost  their  way,  and  suffered  terribly 
from  thirst.  'After  digging  for  two  hours  in  sand  water 
made  its  appearance,  exactly  like  bilge  water  both  in  taste 
and  colour ;  but  thirst  converted  it  into  a  coolinor  draug^ht, 
as  if  from  a  crystal  fountain.'  '  The  extreme  heat  of  the 
sun  renders  it  impossible  to  walk  on  the  sand  even  with 

'  Moffat's  Life  and  the  Society's  register  ^dve  this  date  as  September  22  ;  his 
own  letter  from  Africaner's  kraal,  March  2,  181 8,  gives  it  October  22. 


MOFFAT  AT  AFRICANER'S   KRAAL  583 

shoes ;  the  oxen  stood  together  to  render  the  ground  cool 
by  their  shadows.' 

Soon  after  Mofifat's  arrival  Ebner  rejoined  him,  and 
almost  immediately  quarrelled  with  the  chief's  brother  on 
a  question  of  barter.  This  was  the  last  of  a  series  of 
differences,  and  finally  Ebner  left  the  station  on  March  12, 
181 8,  in  great  indignation  against  the  natives.  Moffat 
found  that  Vreedberg  was  utterly  unsuitable  for  a  mission 
station,  owing  to  its  dryness  and  the  difficulty  of  obtaining 
food.  Moffat's  sketch  of  the  people  is  hardly  more  favour- 
able than  of  the  place  :  '  It  grieves  me  to  see  many  stout 
fellows  lying  sleeping  on  their  karosses  (sheepskin  blankets) 
nearly  the  whole  day ;  but  the  question  is,  what  are  they 
to  do?  When  the  cows  and  goats  come  ev^ery  morning 
and  evening  they  drink  the  milk,  and  when  that  is  scarce 
they  bind  their  bellies  with  a  belt  to  prevent  hunger. 
They  cat  serpents  and  reptiles  of  every  description  rather 
than  work,  they  are  so  inured  to  laziness ;  but  were 
there  a  proper  station,  with  perseverance  I  am  convinced 
that  great  things  might  be  done.  Rather  than  run  into 
debt  by  sending  long  distances  for  bread,  I  sit  down  with 
cheerfulness  to  the  common  fare,  flesh  and  thick  milk.' 
In  this  first  letter  also  Moffat  makes  the  suggestion  'that 
a  station  might  be  attempted  at  Angra  Pequena  Bay,  on 
the  west  coast.'  He  also  states  his  view  that  the  language 
must  be  learned  as  soon  as  possible,  and  all  educational 
work  attempted  in  that,  not  in  the  Dutch. 

The  long,  clear,  vivid  letter,  from  which  all  these  extracts 
are  taken,  enables  the  reader  to  picture  the  conditions 
under  which  Moffat  began  his  great  career.  Everything 
was  against  him.  Could  hardships  have  daunted  him, 
could  difficulties  have  broken  him,  could  even  the  desertion 
of  his  senior  colleague  have  disheartened  liini,  he  would 
have  failed  on  the  threshold.  The  quiet  steadfastness 
with  which  he  prosecuted  the  work,  where  and  when  Ebner 
threw  it  down,  is  one  of  the  most  remarkable  proofs  of  his 
own  zeal,  common  sense,  and  faith. 

The    attendance    at    services    at    Africaner's    kraal    was 


584  KURUMAN:   1S1S-1S95 

fairly  good,  but  the  filthy  habits  of  the  people  formed  no 
slight  obstacle  to  progress.  '  Formerly,  most  of  their 
attention  in  church  was  taken  up  in  slaughtering  their  fat 
companions,  and  I  always  got  my  share  of  those  restless 
inhabitants  while  preaching.'  But  a  warm  attachment  had 
sprung  up  between  Moffat  and  Africaner.  '  Old  Africaner 
is  very  still,  pays  strict  attention  to  public  worship,  and, 
I  believe,  has  a  great  affection  to  me.'  Africaner  agreed 
that  it  was  desirable  for  the  settlement  to  remove  to  a 
more  favourable  locality.  Moffat  travelled  northwards, 
but  failed  in  his  search  for  a  suitable  place.  At  length  he 
proposed  '  to  remove,  with  Africaner,  to  a  fountain  in  the 
Bushmen's  country,  far  east  of  Kuruman  River,'  and  it  was 
deemed  necessary  to  inquire  how  far  this  removal  would 
be  agreeable  to  the  Governor.  For  this  purpose  Moffat 
went  to  Cape  Town,  taking  Africaner  with  him.  The 
sight  of  this  ferocious  chief, '  clothed  and  in  his  right  mind,' 
produced  a  profound  impression  in  all  parts  of  the  Colony. 
The  tidings  of  his  conversion  and  growth  in  Christian 
life  deeply  stirred  the  hearts  of  all  friends  of  missions  at 
home.  Moffat  had  intended  to  return  to  his  old  station, 
but  finding  while  at  Cape  Town  that  it  was  the  wish  of 
the  Rev.  John  Campbell,  then  at  the  Cape,  that  he  should 
settle  at  Lattakoo,  Moffat  did  not  return  to  Namaqualand. 
He  was  married  at  Cape  Town  to  Mary  Smith,  of  Ashton- 
under-Lyne,  to  whom  he  had  been  engaged  before  leaving 
England,  on  December  27,  1819.  Early  in  1820  he  started, 
with  Campbell,  for  Bechwanaland.  He  remained  only  a 
short  time  at  Lattakoo,  and  then  went  to  Griqua  Town  to 
await  the  decision  of  the  governor  as  to  whether  he  might 
take  up  work  at  Lattakoo.  Africaner  brought  Moffat's 
goods  to  Griqua  Town,  and  then  returned  to  bring  his  own, 
but  died  while  at  his  old  kraal.  Difficulties  having  been 
removed,  Moffat  reached  Lattakoo  May  17,  1821. 
^  Lattakoo  had  been  brought  under  the  notice  of  the 
Secretary  by  John  Campbell,  after  his  first  visit  in  1814. 
At  the  request  of  the  Directors  James  Read  of  Bethelsdorp 
went  to  Lattakoo,  arriving  December  28,  1816,  and  there 


REMOVAL    TO  KURUMAN  585 

began  the  work  of  Christianizing  and  civilizing  the  Bechwana 
tribes.  In  1815  Evans,  Hamilton,  Barker,  and  Williams 
had  been  sent  from  England  with  instructions  to  work  at 
Lattakoo  ;  but  Barker  stayed  in  the  Colony,  and  Williams 
went  to  the  Kafirs.  Evans  and  Hamilton  reached  Griqua 
Town  January  11,  1816.  They  made  two  ineffectual 
journeys  to  Lattakoo,  but,  up  to  the  time  of  Read's  arrival 
at  Griqua  Town,  had  done  little  or  nothing  in  the  vv^ay  of 
effecting  a  settlement.  Evans  left  the  mission,  went  to 
Graaff  Reinet,  and  shortly  afterwards  died  at  Cradock. 
Read's  greater  experience  of  native  life  stood  him  in  good 
stead.  He  secured  the  approval  of  the  chief,  Mothibi,  and 
in  June,  1 8 1 7,  Mothibi  and  the  bulk  of  his  tribe  removed  from 
Old  Lattakoo  to  a  more  suitable  location  near  the  Kuruman 
River.  This  station  was  at  first  called  New  Lattakoo,  but 
very  shortly  became  known  universally  as  Kuruman.  Read 
and  Hamilton  worked  as  colleagues  till  July,  182c,  when 
the  former  returned  to  Bethelsdorp.  Hamilton,  who  was 
an  artisan  and  a  good  zealous  man,  but  no  scholar,  worked 
on  alone  until  May,  1821,  when  Moffat  joined  him.  Prior 
to  Moffat's  arrival  nothing  much  had  been  accomplished 
except  the  all-important  achievement — a  beginning. 

Many  details  of  great  interest  connected  with  the  early 
work  at  Kuruman  are  given  in  Moffat's  famous  book,  pub- 
lished in  1842,  Missionary  Labours  and  Scenes  in  Southern 
Africa,  and  Moffat's  Journal  from  November  26,  1821,  to 
July  3,  1822,  is  full  of  incidents  sufficient  to  discourage  any- 
thing but  a  most  robust  faith.  The  people  would  do  nothing 
for  themselves  without  a  reward — '  nay,  if  they  only  sit  a 
few  minutes  within  sight  of  you  they  expect  to  be  well 
rewarded.'  '  It  is  to  be  recollected  that  a  Bechwana  will 
say  and  assent  to  anything,  however  derogatory  to  his 
own  views,  for  the  sake  of  a  few  pinches  of  snuff.'  The 
congregations  improved,  but  Moffat's  description  of  them 
is  not  inspiring  :  '  Nothing  is  heard  here  but  the  noisy 
clamour  of  heathen  tongues,  exhibiting  itself  in  mockery 
and  insults.'  The  picture  presented  in  the  words  penned 
from  day  to  day  is  gloomy  indeed :    '  No   conversions,  no 


586  KURUMAN:  1S1S-1S95 

enquiring  after  God  ;  no  objections  raised  to  exercise  our 
powers  in  defence.  Indifference  and  stupidity  form  the 
wreath  on  every  brow  ;  ignorance — the  grossest  ignorance — 
forms  the  basis  of  every  heart.  Things  earthly,  sensual, 
and  devilish,  stimulate  to  motion  and  mirth,  while  the 
great  concerns  of  the  soul's  redemption  appear  to  them 
like  a  ragged  garment,  in  which  they  see  neither  loveliness 
nor  worth.  .  .  .  We  preach,  we  converse^,  we  catechize,  but 
without  the  least  apparent  success.  Only  satiate  their 
mendicant  spirits  by  perpetually  giving,  and  you  are  all 
that  is  good  ;  but  refuse  to  meet  their  endless  demands, 
their  theme  of  praise  is  turned  to  ridicule  and  abuse.  .  .  . 
The  prospect  is  neither  calculated  to  encourage  or  cheer, 
but  we  labour  in  hope.  .  .  .  Though  the  vision  be  for  an 
appointed  time,  at  the  end  it  shall  speak  and  not  lie ; 
though  it  tarry  it  will  surely  come,  it  will  not  tarry.' 

Speaking  of  this  time,  fifty  years  later,  Moffat  said  : 
'  I  still  remember  distinctly,  when  I  first  became  a  mis- 
sionary, the  great  undertaking  it  seemed  to  learn  the 
language.  There  were  no  interpreters,  and  the  greatest 
difficulties  were  thrown  in  our  way.  However,  I  laboured 
on,  gathering  a  few  words  at  a  time  from  one  and  another, 
until  I  could  string  a  few  sentences  together  and  make  my 
wishes  known  to  the  natives.  I  could  make  you  laugh,  as 
I  laughed  at  the  time  when  I  discovered  them,  at  jokes  that 
were  perpetrated  upon  us  by  the  natives  ;  but  I  laboured 
on.  Diu-ing  all  this  time  we  had  not  a  friend  in  the  whole 
nation,  not  an  individual  that  loved  or  respected  us,  or  who 
wished  us  to  remain  ;  and,  although  they  tried  to  drive  us 
out,  we  persevered,  and,  by  God's  grace  and  assistance, 
overcame  all  the  difficulties  that  lay  in  our  path.' 

When,  in  1 824,  the  station  was  removed  from  Lattakoo 
to  Kuruman,  considerable  numbers  of  the  natives  took  up 
residence  at  the  latter  place.  In  July  of  the  same  year 
Moffat  went  on  a  journey  to  the  Wankeets,  in  the  interior, 
with  a  hunting  party  of  Griquas.  On  this  occasion  he 
witnessed  terrible  scenes  of  bloodshed  due  to  the  maraud- 
ing tribes  which  were   ravaging  the  district.     Writing  on 


FIRST  SIGNS   OF  SUCCESS  587 

December  8,  he  says :  *  The  country  is  deluged  with  fierce 
and  savage  tribes,  whose  chief  support  seems  to  depend  on 
destroying  each  other.'  In  consequence  of  this  invasion, 
for  a  time  the  mission  had  to  retire  to  Griqua  Town.  The 
missionaries  returned  to  Kuruman  in  March,  1825.  The 
land  belonging  to  the  mission,  which  had  originally  been 
purchased  from  Mothibi  for  forty  pounds  of  beads,  was 
divided  into  twelve  allotments,  three  for  the  missionaries, 
and  nine  for  those  employed  by  the  mission.  It  was  at 
this  time  that  the  work  of  erecting  stone  buildings  began. 
The  mission  had  been  reinforced  by  the  arrival  in  August, 
1824,  of  Mr.  Isaac  Hughes,  a  blacksmith.  Meanwhile  the 
buildings  were  finished  ;  the  routine  work  of  the  mission 
was  carried  on  ;  and  Moffat  paid  a  visit  to  the  notorious 
warrior  chief,  Makaba. 

It  was  not  until  1829  that  the  hearts  of  the  patient  and 
persistent  workers  were  cheered  by  signs  of  the  success 
they  most  desired.  The  congregations  began  to  exhibit 
marks  of  spiritual  awakening.  The  awakening  came,  as 
such  things  do  come,  without  any  human  or  visible  existing 
cause.  There  was  a  wave  of  tumultuous  and  simultaneous 
enthusiasm.  In  a  few  months  the  whole  aspect  of  the 
station  had  changed.  The  meeting-house  was  crowded 
before  the  service  had  begun.  Heathen  songs  and  dancing 
had  ceased,  and  everywhere  were  to  be  heard  instead  the 
songs  of  Zion  and  the  outpouring  of  impassioned  prayers. 
The  missionaries  were  beset  even  in  their  own  houses  by 
those  who  were  seeking  fuller  instruction  in  things  which 
had  become  to  them  all  at  once  of  paramount  importance. 

Six  natives  were  baptized  and  admitted  to  church 
fellowship,  and  at  the  Lord's  Table  on  the  following 
Sunday,  including  the  missionaries,  twelve  united  in  a 
Communion  Service,  the  first  at  which  Kuruman  converts 
had  been  present.  Long  before  Mrs.  Moffat,  in  reply  to 
a  friend,  had  written  in  faith,  '  Send  us  a  Communion 
service.'  Two  or  three  years  passed,  and  on  the  very  day 
before  this  first  public  Communion  was  held  a  box,  con- 
taining the  plate,  arrived  from  England.     Great  attention 


^88  KURUMAN:  1818-1S95 

was  paid  to  education,  and  a  school  house  had  been  built. 
The  valley  was  irrigated,  and  greatly  improved  in  pro- 
ductiveness. Moffat  had  also  by  this  time  translated  the 
Gospel  of  Luke  into  Sechwana.  This  had,  of  course, 
involved  the  reduction  of  the  language  to  writing,  in  itself 
no  mean  achievement.  The  translation  was  used  first  in 
MSS.,  and  not  printed  until  1830. 

This  year  is  also  memorable  because  Moffat  then  visited 
the  great  Matabele  chief,  Mosilikatse  or  Umziligazi,  who 
was  thus  for  the  first  time  brought  into  contact  with 
Christian  missionaries. 

In  1830  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Moffat  determined  to  visit  the 
coast.  It  was  now  high  time  to  arrange  for  the  schooling 
of  their  two  elder  children.  Moffat  also  was  eager  to  get 
those  portions  of  Scripture  which  he  had  been  able  to 
translate  into  Sechwana  printed.  At  Philippolis  they  met 
MM.  Lemue  and  Rolland,  French  missionaries  on  their 
way  to  work  among  the  Basutos  ;  and  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Baillie,  appointed  as  their  own  colleagues.  These  all 
went  on  to  Kuruman  to  await  there  the  Moffats'  return. 
Mrs.  Moffat  visited  Salem,  a  Wesleyan  school  near  Graham's 
Town  ;  finally  settling  her  children  there.  Moffat  visited 
the  stations  in  Kafirland,  and  then,  finding  it  impos- 
sible to  get  anything  printed  in  the  Eastern  Province, 
rode  400  miles  to  Cape  Town,  a  journey  he  managed  to 
accomplish  in  nine  days.  At  Bethelsdorp  he  met  Mr. 
Edwards,  who  had  been  originally  intended  for  Kuruman, 
and  finally  took  him  on  to  Cape  Town  to  help  in  seeing 
the  MSS.  through  the  press.  Even  at  Cape  Town  no 
printer  could  be  found  equal  to  the  work,  and  finally 
Colonel  Bird  allowed  them  to  use  the  Government  printing 
office.  But  only  one  man  could  be  spared  to  help  them, 
and  he,  assisted  by  Moffat  and  Edwards,  finished  the  work. 
This  experience  proved  valuable,  because  a  printing  press 
intended  for  Kuruman  reached  Cape  Town  while  Moffat 
was  there,  and  was  by  him  thankfully  conveyed  to  the 
station. 

Edwards  accompanied  the  Moffats  on  their  return,  and 


ARRIVAL   OF  THE  PRINTING  PRESS  589 

Kuruman  was  reached  in  June,  1831.  The  three  French 
missionaries,  Lemiie,  Rolland,  and  Pelissier,  who  had  been 
sent  out  by  the  Paris  Evangehcal  Society  to  begin  work 
for  them  in  Africa,  occupied  a  great  deal  of  Moffat's 
time,  and  enlisted  his  warmest  sympathy.  Their  first  plan 
was  to  settle  among  the  Bahurutse.  This  was  frustrated 
by  Mosilikatse's  anger  and  suspicion,  he  having  been 
attacked  by  a  party  of  Griquas  under  command  of  a  man 
named  Berends.  This  failure  led  the  French  missionaries, 
in  the  good  providence  of  God,  to  turn  their  attention  to 
the  Basutos,  and  thus  to  begin  what  has  proved  one  of  the 
most  fruitful  and  satisfactory  of  South  African  missions. 
Here,  as  in  so  many  other  parts  of  the  world's  harvest 
field,  the  workers  of  the  London  Missionary  Society  were 
able  to  assist  with  their  advice  and  sympathy,  and  active 
co-operation,  the  initiation  of  work  by  a  sister  society. 

Baillie's  career  was  brief.  After  but  a  short  spell  of 
work  at  Kuruman  he  removed,  in  1833,  to  Blink  Klip,  where 
he  attempted  to  form  a  new  station.  In  i^'^^  he  and  his 
family  returned  to  England,  and  his  name  disappears  from 
the  Society's  annals. 

The  printing  press  at  once  began  a  career  of  useful 
service.  On  Sept.  15,  i<^3i,  Mrs.  Moffat  writes:  'The 
press  is  set  up,  and  has  been  at  work  printing  lessons  for 
the  school.  It  has  been  a  formidable  work  to  bring  it  and 
to  set  it  going  ;  but  the  advantages  of  it  will  be  inestimable 
to  the  mission.'  From  1831  to  1895  press  work,  in  many 
forms,  was  carried  on  at  Kuruman. 

During  1832  and  1833  work  was  steadily  and  successfully 
maintained.  In  January,  1833,  Moffat  was  able  to  report 
that  five  additional  members  had  been  baptized  and 
received  into  the  little  native  church.  The  chief  hindrances 
were  due  to  the  bodily  and  mental  characteristics  of  the 
people.  In  1834  Moffat  writes:  'This  is  a  land  where  the 
people  may  be  said  (from  necessity)  to  keep  one  perpetual 
fast.  They  live  a  starving  life,  and  scarcely  ever  can  say 
that  they  have  had  a  full  meal  of  wholesome  food.  From 
these  causes  the  faculties  of  their  minds,  even  from  infant 


590  KURUMAN:  1818-1895 

years,  are  greatly  impaired.  We  anticipate  a  new  and 
superior  race  with  a  new  generation.'  By  the  close  of  1834 
the  population  of  Kuruman  amounted  to  727,  living  in  236 
houses.  There  were  two  schools,  with  115  scholars.  The 
services  on  Sunday  had  average  congregations  of  340,  on 
work-days  of  130.  There  were  twenty-nine  communicants 
and  church  members.  The  cattle  of  the  little  community 
amounted  in  all  to  2,342. 

In  1 833  Mary  Moffat,  who  had  not  seen  her  daughters 
for  two  years,  took  the  long  journey  to  Salem  alone,  her 
husband  not  being  able  to  leave  his  work.  On  her  return 
she  was  to  bring  up  a  supply  of  type  and  paper  which  had 
been  sent  out  to  Cape  Town  for  the  press.  She  writes  :  '  My 
journey  was  exceedingly  prosperous.  My  travelling  com- 
pany of  servants  consisted  of  five  Bechwana  men  and  one 
Hottentot,  and  a  girl  to  nurse  my  baby.  In  one  of  these 
men,  Paul,  one  of  the  first  converts,  I  had  great  comfort. 
Not  having  my  husband  with  me,  I  had  to  put  the  more 
confidence  in  him,  and  truly  it  was  not  misplaced.  I  had 
continual  joy  in  him  as  a  brother  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.' 
The  journey  occupied  five  months,  and  is  one  of  the  many 
ilhistrations  of  courage  and  devotion  to  the  work  shown 
by  Christian  women  in  the  mission  field,  and  at  the  same 
time  of  fidelity  and  trustworthiness  on  the  part  of  a  Bech- 
wana convert. 

In  1835  both  Moffat  and  his  wife  were  dangerously  ill. 
A  son  had  been  born  on  March  10,  and  Mrs.  Moffat  seemed 
unable  to  regain  strength.  Her  husband  was  afflicted 
with  bilious  fever.  Just  when  things  were  at  their  worst 
Dr.  Andrew  Smith  providentially  reached  Kuruman,  and 
was  of  the  greatest  service  by  his  kindness  and  skill.  He 
was  at  the  head  of  an  expedition  fitted  out  for  scientific 
purposes,  which  had  come  from  the  Cape,  and  wished  to 
visit  Mosilikatse.  Dr.  Smith  persuaded  Moffat  to  accom- 
pany them.  Although  reluctant  to  leave  Kuruman,  he  was 
induced  to  consent,  partly  because  l>e  hoped  to  get  from 
Mosilikatse  timber  with  which  to  roof  the  Kuruman  church, 
and  partly  because  he  hoped  to  induce  the  Matabele  chief 


THE  MISSION  AT  GRIQUA    TOWN  591 

to  consent  to  receive  missionaries.  He  had  heard  that 
some  American  brethren  might  be  sent,  and  he  wished  to 
prepare  their  way.  Thus  it  came  about  that,  in  1835, 
Moffat  paid  his  second  visit  to  Mosih'katse,  in  what  was 
then  known  as  the  Bakone  country,  lying  to  the  north- 
east of  Kuruman.  He  resided  in  daily  intercourse  with 
the  great  heathen  chief  for  more  than  two  months. 

In  1836  ill  health  compelled  Mrs.  Moffat  to  visit  the 
coast  again.  Moffat  travelled  with  her  as  far  as  the  Vaal 
River,  and  then  paid  a  visit  to  his  old  friend  Mothibi,  the 
chief  of  the  Batlaping.  The  early  part  of  the  year  1837 
was  a  season  of  steady  progress  at  Kuruman.  '  We  are  no 
longer,'  writes  Moffat,  '  left  to  pray  alone,  or  to  complain 
that  we  have  spent  our  strength  for  naught.  The  day 
has  dawned,  the  fetters  of  superstition  are  comparatively 
broken.'  But  at  this  moment  of  brightening  prospects 
serious  differences  sprang  up  between  the  brethren  at 
Kuruman  and  those  at  Griqua  Town.  Mr.  Peter  Wright, 
senior  missionary  at  the  latter  place,  was  then,  with  the 
knowledge  and  hearty  concurrence  of  Dr.  Philip,  acting 
also  as  Government  agent.  Relations  between  Moffat  and 
Dr.  Philip  were  not  of  the  most  cordial  character.  Moffat 
had  arrived  in  Africa  before  Philip.  He  had  seen  enough 
during  his  first  few  months  at  the  Cape  to  lead  him  to 
distrust  any  attempt  to  control  too  closely,  from  Cape 
Town,  distant  mission  work.  There  is  ample  documentary 
evidence  to  show  that,  in  these  early  years,  Philip  con- 
sidered Moffat  somewhat  headstrong  and  opinionated,  and 
not  too  ready  to  allow  others  either  their  full  share  in  the 
tasks  attempted,  or  in  the  credit  for  the  work  done.  Local 
jealousies  further  embittered  the  position.  Waterboer,  the 
chief  of  Griqua  Town,  looked  with  an  envious  eye  upon 
the  growing  prosperity  of  Kuruman,  and  developed  towards 
that  settlement  a  very  ungenerous  spirit.  Wright  and 
Hughes,  the  missionaries  at  Griqua  Town,  took  the  side  of 
their  own  chief;  and  when  scandalous  charges  were  circu- 
lated about  Moffat,  did  not  show  the  readiness  to  discredit 
them  which  they  might  have  done.    The  Bechwana  refused 


-^2  KURUMAN:  1S1S-1S95 

to  accept  the  chieftainship  of  Waterboer,  and  the  Kuru- 
man  missionaries  steadily  refused  to  allow  Griqua  Town 
influence  to  gain  any  power  over  their  people.  The  details 
oi  the  dispute  are  now  of  no  importance  whatever,  save  as 
an  illustration  of  one  great  difficulty  experienced  by  the 
missionaries  all  over  central  South  Africa.  Compelled  to 
recof^nize  the  local  chieftainships,  and  often  very  largely 
dependent  upon  the  chief's  favour  for  power  to  prosecute 
their  work,  the  personal  quality  of  the  man  became  a 
matter  of  prime  importance.  Strong  men,  like  Vander- 
kcmp,  Brownlee,  Moffat,  and  Livingstone,  conciliated  and 
skilfully  used  the  natives  with  whom  they  had  to  do.  Less 
able,  less  devoted,  less  spiritual  men  not  unfrequently 
found  themselves  unequal  to  the  task,  and  sadly  hindered 
mission-work  by  folly  which  was  sometimes  devoid  even 
of  the  excuse  that  it  was  conscientious  folly. 

In  1839  Moffat  visited  England  for  the  first  time  since 
his  departure  in  1817.  He  came  chiefly  to  see  his  trans- 
lation of  the  New  Testament  into  Sechwana  through  the 
press.  He  had  not  been  long  at  home  before  he  found 
himself  famous.  The  wonderful  story  which  he  had  to 
tell,  the  simplicity  and  noble  transparency  of  the  speaker, 
the  flame  of  his  devotion  to  the  down-trodden  natives, 
kindled  immense  enthusiasm  wherever  he  went.  His 
literary  task,  under  these  conditions,  proved  more  serious 
than  he  had  anticipated,  and,  at  the  request  of  the  Bible 
Society,  he  added  a  translation  of  the  Psalms  into  Sechwana. 
It  was  January,  J  843,  before  he  and  his  wife  sailed  on  their 
return  journey. 

Meanwhile  another  great  African  worker  had  begun  his 
career.  In  July,  1841,  David  Livingstone^  reached  Kuru- 
man.  Born  at  Blantyre  in  1813,  he  had  become  a  church 
member  of  the  Congregational  Church  at  Hamilton  in 
1835,  and,  after  a  course  of  classics  and  medicine  at  Glasgow 
University,  became  a  Licentiate  of  the  Faculty  of  Phy- 
sicians and  Surgeons.  He  was  ac(;epted  by  the  Society, 
and  appointed  to  Bechwanaland,  and  ordained  in  London, 

'  For  some  years  after  his  arrival  in  Africa  he  spelt  his  name  Livingston. 


EXTENSIONS   OF  WORK  593 

November  20.  1840.  In  a  subsequent  chapter  his  work, 
while  connected  w^ith  the  Society,  has  been  traced.  Living- 
stone was  accompanied  by  William  Ross,  a  fellow  Scotch- 
man, who  commenced  work  at  Taung  in  1844.  They  had 
been  preceded,  in  1839,  by  Holloway  Helmore,  who  Vv^as 
stationed,  in  June,  1840,  at  Likhatlong,  a  station  on  the 
Vaal  River  to  the  south-east  of  Kuruman.  Helmore  at 
first  agreed  to  work  in  connection  with  Griqua  Town,  but 
seems  soon  to  have  found  this  impossible,  and  in  1842 
removed  to  Borigelong,  an  out-station  of  Kuruman,  a  place 
situated  to  the  north  of  Likhatlong,  and  between  that 
station  and  Taung.     There  Mothibi  still  resided. 

In  1843  the  Directors  decided  that  mission  affairs  in  this 
part  of  Africa  should  in  future  be  managed  by  a  District 
Committee,  composed  of  the  Griqua  Town  and  Bechwana- 
land  missionaries,  and  the  first  meeting  was  held  at  Kuru- 
man on  January  6,  1844.  This  District  Committee,  owing 
to  dissensions  among  its  members,  seems  to  have  never 
reached  a  vigorous  and  useful  life,  and  there  is  no  trace  of 
any  meetings  between  1849  and  1866.  At  the  first  meeting, 
Hamilton,  Moffat,  Edwards,  Livingstone,  Ross,  and  Ashton 
were  present.  Inglis  declined  to  attend  ;  Helmore  was 
unable  to  be  present.  Wright  had  removed  from  Griqua 
Town  to  Philippolis  in  1842,  and  Hughes  was  just  making 
arrangements  to  remove  to  Backhouse.  The  chief  reso- 
lutions adopted  were  :  (1)  Helmore  and  Inglis  to  labour  at 
Likhatlong,  Ross  at  Taung,  and  Ashton  at  Kuruman  ;  (2) 
a  grant  of  £^0  to  be  made  to  Edwards  and  Livingstone 
for  the  purpose  of  beginning  work  among  the  Bakhatla  tribe. 
Mr.  Walter  Inglis  and  Mr.  W.  Ashton  were  new  missionaries 
who  had  accompanied  the  Moffats  on  their  return  in  1843. 

For  the  next  few  years  Hamilton,  Moffat,  and  Ashton 
shared  the  work  at  Kuruman.  The  excitement  of  the 
return  was  soon  over.  In  December,  i84;'5,  the  old  chief 
Mothibi  died.  Between  1846  and  1850  friction  resulted 
from  the  action  of  Edwards  and  Inglis.  Livingstone  found 
it  impossible  to  work  with  the  former  at  Mabotsa  ;  and 
both    Edwards    and    Inglis    adversely    criticized    Moffat's 

I.  Qq 


594  KURUMAN:  1S1S-1S95 

Bechwana  version  of  the  New  Testament.  Both  were 
artisan  missionaries  of  the  type  so  common  in  the  first 
fifty  years  of  the  Society's  history.  Some  men  of  this 
class  became  splendid  missionaries,  like  Hamilton ;  others, 
like  Inglis  and  Edwards,  after  an  unsatisfactory  history, 
soon  ceased  to  have  official  connection  with  the  work. 

In  1849  Ashton  made  an  effort  to  begin  the  training  of 
native  teachers.  This  has  always  been  a  difficult  matter 
in  Bechwanaland,  partly  because  of  the  indolence  and 
indifference  of  the  native  character,  and  partly  because  the 
Directors  have  never  sufficiently  concentrated  their  efforts 
upon  any  one  scheme,  like  that  which  has  proved  so  suc- 
cessful at  Lovedale. 

'  We  are  aware,'  wrote  Moffat  in  1851,  '  that  we  need  not 
expect  that  this  generation,  nor  perhaps  the  three  or  four 
to  come,  will  come  up  to  that  standard  of  pious  zeal  which 
we  find  among  educated  people.  Seven  native  teachers 
have  gone  from  this  mission — I  may  say,  from  this  station — 
and  they  have  done  well,  considering  that  they  did  not 
commence  their  labours  or  their  studies  in  their  youth. 
But  the  hue  and  cry  is  raised,  "  We  won"t  have  a  black 
teacher  like  ourselves  ;  we  will  have  a  w4iite  teacher  who 
can  guide  and  protect  us."  Of  course  there  is  a  worldly 
motive  in  this.  The  native  teachers  are  much  disheartened. 
They  can  do  little  or  nothing  in  the  absence  of  the  mis- 
sionary. Bechwanas,  reduced  to  vassalage  by  the  Boers, 
point  the  finger  of  scorn  to  the  British  and  to  the  colonist, 
and  say,  "  Go  and  convert  your  own  countrymen,  and  then 
try  your  hand  on  us."  ' 

Another  local  difficulty  at  Kuruman  has  been  the  fact 
that  no  strong  tribe  has  ever  occupied  it.  The  inhabitants 
have  always  consisted  of  members  of  various  tribes,  and 
have  dwindled  rather  than  grown  in  numbers  during  the 
century. 

On  July  II,  1851,  Hamilton  died.  He  was  known  to 
few  outside  the  Kuruman  circle  during  his  life,  and  is  not 
even  a  name  to  this  generation  of  the  Society's  supporters. 
He  never  revisited  England,  and  he  spent  the  last  thirty 


DEATH  OF  HAMILTON  595 

years  of  his  life  in  quiet,  steady  mission  work.  It  is  upon 
shoulders  like  his  that  a  large  part  of  the  burden  of  mis- 
sionary work  rests,  and  from  the  rank  in  which  he  holds 
a  place,  honoured  by  those  who  know  anything  about  him, 
will  come  many  of  those  '  last '  who  shall  be  '  first '  in  the 
great  and  final  award. 

Moffat,  meanwhile,  both  at  the  request  of  the  Directors 
and  in  accordance  with  his  own  desire,  was  giving  much  of 
his  energy  to  the  translation  of  the  Old  Testament.  In 
this  work  he  was  greatly  assisted  by  W.  Ashton,  not  only 
in  the  printing  the  various  portions,  but  in  the  thorough 
and  careful  revision  of  the  manuscript,  and  in  consultation 
upon  the  matters  of  difficulty  which  so  constantly  crop  up 
in  Bible  translation.  As  early  as  1848  Isaiah  had  been 
printed.  Also  the  Pilgrim  s  Progress,  which  Moffat  had 
translated,  and  Line  iipoii  Line,  which  Ashton  had  prepared. 
In  March,  1851.  Moffat  writes  : — 

'  We  are  getting  on  here  as  fast  as  we  can  in  what  we 
firmly  believe  is  the  work  of  God.  We  are  instant  in 
season  and  out  of  season  in  our  public  duties  and  in  the 
work  of  translation,  but  the  progress  is  slow,  very  slow. 
Could  I  obtain  a  competent  amanuensis  it  would  greatly 
facilitate  my  progress  in  translation.  The  printing  goes  on 
at  snail's  pace,  from  the  want  of  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
type,  and  the  want  also  of  compositors  on  whom  we  can 
depend.  One  is  taught,  and  perhaps  he  leaves  to  live  with 
friends  at  a  distance ;  another  does  not  like  the  confine- 
ment ;  and  as  printing  is  only  one  section  of  the  round  of 
pressing  duties  which  devolve  on  the  missionary,  it  must 
frequently  wait  his  time.  Lately  a  new  edition  of  Isaiah, 
Proverbs,  and  Preacher  was  turned  off,  but  will  not  be  bound 
up  till  the  smaller  Prophets  are  also  printed.  We  have 
commenced  the  Pentateuch  :  Genesis,  Exodus,  Leviticus, 
and  Deuteronomy  are  ready.  Numbers  will  be  compara- 
tively light  work.  Translation  I  feel  to  be  hard  work,  and 
I  have  my  fears  that  my  head  will  not  stand  till  the  whole 
is  completed  ;  but  it  is  comforting  to  know  that  God  will 
carry  on  His  work  as  well  without  as  with  me.' 

Qq  2 


596  KURUMAN:  lsiS-1895 

In  1852  troubles  caused  by  the  Boers  of  the  Transvaal 
reached  an  acute  stage  at  Kuruman.  Moffat,  writing  on 
Nov.  22,  1852,  gives  a  gloomy  picture  of  the  outlook:  — 

'  The  mission  station  at  Kolobeng,  commenced  and 
carried  on  by  Dr.  Livingstone,  is  now  a  solitude,  brooding 
over  ashes  and  dead  men's  bones,  while  Sechele  and  his 
followers,  who  escaped  the  balls  of  the  Boers,  are  in  the 
fastnesses  of  a  neighbouring  mountain.  The  Bakhatla  of 
Mabotsa  have  been  plundered  and  slain.  The  Bahurutse 
of  Matebe,  a  third  missionary  station,  are  now  prostrate, 
because  on  the  side  of  their  oppressors  there  is  power. 
Their  chief  lets  me  know  that  he  is  now  reduced  to  be 
"  a  dog  of  the  Boers."  The  Bangwaketse,  among  whom  we 
had  two  native  teachers,  have  been  driven  from  their  towns. 
The  Boers  can  give  no  reason  for  the  work  of  extermina- 
tion which  they  are  carrying  on,  except  their  own  deter- 
mination, that  all  the  aborigines  must  become  their  vassals. 
They  conceive  that  they  have  an  especial  right  to  engage  in 
wars,  and  dispossess  chiefs  of  the  lands  of  their  forefathers, 
by  virtue  of  their  treaty  with  the  British  Government,  in 
which  the  independence  of  the  Boers  north  of  the  Vaal 
River  is  acknowledged  and  proclaimed.  This  in  their 
judgment  includes  all  the  country  north  of  the  Vaal  River, 
from  its  source  to  the  point  where  it  enters  the  Western 
Ocean.  Every  act  of  rapine  and  bloodshed  is  now  carried 
on  under  pretext  that  the  country  is  theirs  by  the  autho- 
rity of  the  Queen  of  England^.' 

Of  the  work  at  Kuruman  during  this  anxious  epoch, 
Moffat  gives  a  good  account : — 

'  The  present  state  of  our  Church  and  branch  Churches, 
as  compared  with  late  years,  is  more  encouraging,  and  is 
calling  for  increased  effort  on  our  part.  The  people  are 
more  settled  in  their  habits,  while  their  minds  are  becom- 
ing better  informed  on  subjects  calculated  to  advance  their 
temporal  as  well  as  their  spiritual  interests.  The  views  of 
the  natives  have  undergone  a  material  change  on  many 
points  of  importance,  and  among  others  as  to  the  culti- 

*■   Chronicle,  1853,  P-  ^3- 


DEATH  OF  WATERBOER  597 

vation  of  fields  and  gardens.  When  they  first  saw  us 
employing  people  to  convey  the  contents  of  cattle-folds  to 
our  gardens,  the  act  being  in  their  judgment  too  ludicrous 
to  admit  reflection,  they  laughed  boisterously,  supposing 
it  to  be  one  of  our  foolish  customs,  to  charm  the  ground, 
as  they  were  wont  to  do  to  their  own  gardens,  by  chewing 
a  certain  root,  and  spitting  on  the  leaves  to  make  the 
whole  more  fruitful.  Thus  from  time  immemorial  millions 
of  heaps  of  manure  were  turned  to  no  useful  account.  It 
was  very  long  before  they  were  convinced,  but  at  last  they 
discovered  that  manured  gardens  did  not  "  get  old,"  but 
could  be  made  "  very  young  again,"  and,  therefore,  the 
veriest  heathen  may  now  be  seen  carrying  manure  on 
their  backs,  and  on  the  backs  of  oxen,  to  garden  grounds. 
Lately,  an  individual  remarked  to  me  on  this  subject* 
*•  I  cannot  persuade  myself  that  we  were  once  so  stupid  as 
not  to  believe  what  we  saw  with  our  eyes  ^." ' 

On  January  13,  1853,  Andries  Waterboer,  the  famous 
chief  of  Griqua  Town,  died.  He,  for  the  earlier  part  of  the 
century,  as  Khame  for  the  latter  part,  stands  out  as  an 
African  chief  of  the  highest  type.  The  following  sketch  of 
him  appeared  at  the  time  :  — 

'  At  an  early  age  he  professed  Christianity,  and  joined 
the  Church  at  Griqua  Town.  Upwards  of  forty-five  years 
he  maintained  that  profession  without  wavering.  He  w^as 
a  man  of  great  vigour  and  energy,  and  his  powers  as  an 
orator  were  of  no  mean  order.  He  was  chosen  Chief  of 
Griqua  Town  at  a  critical  time,  and  succeeded  in  reducing 
things  to  order,  and  in  putting  an  effectual  check  upon  the 
marauding  expeditions  of  the  Bergenaars.  His  address 
was  pleasing,  and,  though  firm  and  decided,  his  manners 
were  conciliatory.  Europeans  and  natives  united  to  speak 
well  of  him.  The  most  bitter  enemies  of  the  coloured  race 
were  compelled  to  except  Waterboer  from  their  sweeping 
censures.  He  was  the  first  Chief  in  South  Africa  with 
whom  a  regular  written  treaty  was  made  by  the  British 
Government ;    and   to  that   treaty  he  ever  adhered.      No 

'   Chronide,  1853,  pp.  64,  65. 


598  KURUMAN:   1S18-1895 

violation  of  that  treaty  was  ever  charged  against  him, 
and  all  the  British  officials  who  came  in  contact  with  him 
were  loud  in  his  praises  \' 

Early  in  1854  a  native  teacher,  Paulo  by  name,  accord- 
ing to  Moffat  *  by  far  the  best  theologian  in  the  country,' 
went  to  Matcbe  by  special  request  of  the  chief  Mailve. 
These  extensions  of  work  among  the  native  tribes,  and 
Livingstone's  now  well-known  determination  to  open  up 
the  interior,  aroused  the  bitter  hostility  of  the  Boers. 
The  faster  mission  work  was  growing,  the  more  difficult 
they  felt  it  would  become  to  maintain  and  extend  their 
policy  of  absolute  subjugation  of  the  natives. 

Ashton,  on  May  7,  1854,  wrote:  'The  country  is  not 
only  given  over  to  the  Boers,  but  with  it  abundance  of 
ammunition,  and  they  are  to  have  as  much  as  they  wish 
from  time  to  time  from  the  English,  whilst  the  natives  are 
most  strictly  prohibited  from  purchasing  both  powder  and 
lead.  They  are  thus  delivered  over  (so  far  as  our  Govern- 
ment can  do  it),  bound  hand  and  foot,  to  the  tender  mercies 
of  these  oppressors.  The  natives  feel  this  keenly  ;  they 
have  lost  all  respect  for  the  English  ;  in  fact,  the  respect 
which  we  formerly  witnessed  among  them  towards  all 
white  men  is  turned  to  hatred,  and  we  missionaries  partake 
largely  in  the  general  odium.' 

Anxiety  on  account  of  Livingstone,  and  also  a  desire  to 
encourage  Sechele,  led  Moffat,  in  1854,  to  pay  a  visit  to 
Lithubaruba,  the  place  where  Sechele  had  taken  refuge 
after  the  destruction  of  Kolobeng.  He  spent  several  days 
with  the  chief,  and  had  long  talks-  with  him  about  Scrip- 
ture, and  did  all  in  his  power  to  aid  him  in  carrying  out 
his  resolve  that  his  children  should  not  conform  to  the 
usual  immoral  heathen  customs. 

On  leaving  Sechele,  Moffat  journeyed  120  miles  north- 
wards to  Shoshong,  and  for  the  first  time  met  Sekhome,  the 
chief  of  the  Bamangwato,  '  whose  appearance,'  he  wrote, 
'  was  in  keeping  with  his  well-kno>vn  character,  made  up 

'   Chronicle,  1853,  p.  68.  2  See  ibid.,  1854,  PP-  256-263. 


MOFFAT  VISITS  MOSILIKATSE  599 

of  cunning,  treachery,  cruelty,  falsehood,  and  folly.'  For 
various  reasons,  one  of  the  chief  being  Sekhome's  fear  that 
Moffat  might  induce  Mosilikatse  to  release  Macheng, 
Sekhome  would  do  nothing  to  aid  his  journey  to  Mosili- 
katse. But  Moffat  pushed  on,  reached  the  chief's  kraal, 
and  spent  nearly  three  months  with  him.  The  chief  was 
now  an  old  man,  and  ill,  and  Moffat  was  able  to  be  of 
real  service  to  him.  Eager  for  tidings  of  Livingstone, 
Moffat  determined  to  push  northwards.  Mosilikatse  at 
length  accompanied  him,  but  this  so  greatly  hindered  Moffat 
that  he  had  to  give  up  his  project  of  reaching  the  Zambesi. 
Supplies  and  letters  were  sent  on  by  a  party  of  Matabele, 
placed  on  an  island  in  the  river,  and  found  there  months 
later  by  Livingstone  on  his  return  from  the  West  Coast. 
Moffat  returned  to   Kuruman. 

^Y  ^'^Sl  t^i^  great  translation  task,  to  which  Moffat 
had  devoted  thirty  and  Ashton  seven  years  of  strenuous 
labour,  was  completed,  and  the  Bechwanas  possessed  the 
whole  Bible  in  their  own  tongue.  That  the  version  was 
imperfect  none  knew  better  than  the  two  devoted  men  who 
made  it.  But  the  names  of  Moffat  and  Ashton  are  im- 
perishably  associated  with  one  of  the  greatest  missionary 
achievements  of  the  century — the  gift  to  a  nation  of  the 
Word  of  God.  Who  can  measure  the  influence  of  this 
Sechwana  translation  of  the  Scriptures  ? 

During  1857  Ashton's  letters  from  Kuruman  deal  with 
matters  of  considerable  importance  to  the  mission.  On 
January  19,  1857,  Ashton  wrote  home  a  letter  setting  forth 
the  difficulty  of  his  position,  without  in  any  way  reflecting 
upon  Moffat.  He  states  his  view  that  the  time  has  come 
when  he  ought  to  leave  Kuruman.  For  a  long  time  he  has 
not  been  able  to  agree  with  Moffat's  mode  of  managing  the 
mission,  but  he  has  not  quarrelled  with  him,  and  would 
rather  stand  at  a  disadvantage  before  the  Directors  than  do 
so.  Being  the  junior,  he  has  conceded  a  great  deal  to  his 
senior ;  but  there  is  a  point  where  conscientious  scruples 
forbid  further  concessions.  He  has  been  urged  to  go 
to  Philippolis,  and  should  he  do  so  before  receiving  the 


6oo  KURUMAN:   181S-1895 

Directors'  permission,  he  hopes  they  may  not  consider  it 
•  a  great  crime.' 

The  views  of  the  older  and  younger  worker  were  not 
quite  in  accord  at  this  time  as  to  the  state  of  affairs  at 
Kuruman.  On  March  ii,  1857,  Ashton  wrote  complain- 
ing about  the  small  contributions  of  church  members 
amongst  the  Bechwanas.  The  average  was  only  ^s.  per 
head  per  annum  ;  and  they  paid  nothing  for  pew-rents,  or 
for  the  schooling  of  themselves  or  their  children,  and  also 
received  much  medicine  and  advice  gratis.  He  questions 
whether  the  whole  of  the  native  subscriptions  amount  to 
as  much  as  the  Society  pays  to  the  native  teachers.  He 
asks,  'Where  is  the  use  of  multiplying  members  who  pay 
nothing  at  all  ? '  In  taking  into  consideration  the  fitness 
of  candidates  for  membership,  why  not  ask,  '  Have  they 
shown  any  desire,  by  contributions,  either  to  maintain  the 
Gospel  among  themselves,  or  to  spread  it  around  them  ?  ' 

Moffat,  under  the  same  date,  March  11,  wrote  home  in 
regard  to  Ashtons  wish  to  leave  Kuruman  as  follows : — 
'  I  do  feel  thankful  for  his  assistance  in  the  work  of  transla- 
tion. I  submitted  every  sheet,  before  the  final  revision,  to 
his  judgment,  and,  though  yet  a  tyro  in  Biblical  criticism, 
and  not  professing  an  extensive  knowledge  of  the  language, 
his  suggestions  and  approval  of  renderings  I  valued  much. 
Nor  did  he  in  general  appear  disappointed  on  finding  fre- 
quently that  many  of  his  remarks  were  not  correct,  or  super- 
fluous. I  now  feel  no  little  satisfaction  that  I  have  never 
once,  during  the  whole  period  we  have  lived  together, 
spoken  a  cross  word  to  him.  I  have  been  now  for  many 
years  as  tame  as  any  old  wife's  cat  in  my  intercourse  with 
men,  and  will  lie  down  and  let  any  one  walk  over  me, 
rather  than  say  a  word,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  calcu- 
lated to  give  offence  ^' 

In  a  letter  dated  Oct.  12,  1857,  Ashton  says,  'It  is  not 
a  little  odd  that,  though  for  the  last  seven  years  at  least 
I   have  been   busily  engaged   in   assisting  Mr.   Moffat    in 

And  Ashton's  attitude  towards  Moffat,  as  seen  in  the  whole  correspon- 
dence, was  of  a  similar  character. 


ASHTON'S   WORK  AT  KURUMAN  6oi 

revising  his  translations  for  the  press,  you  have  never  once 
acknowledged,  during  that  time,  my  services;  and  now  in 
your  Report,  which  has  just  reached  me,  you  speak  of 
the  work  as  being  completed,  and  as  having  been  accom- 
plished entirely  by  Mr.  Moffat,  without  the  least  hint  or 
mention  of  any  assistance  from  myself.  I  wish  you  and 
the  Directors  to  understand  that,  besides  having  printed 
the  Old  Testament  (Psalms  excepted).  I  have,  at  Mr.  Moffat's 
request,  examined  every  sheet  of  the  MS.  from  Genesis  to 
Malachi.  I  have  also  conferred  with  Moffat  "  for  weeks 
and  months  "  in  settling  queries,  &c.  Some  of  the  maga- 
zines have  stated  that  Moffat  both  translated  and  printed 
the  whole  Bible  ! ' 

Many  years,  however,  were  to  pass  before  Ashtons 
connection  with  Kuruman  was  to  be  finally  severed.  At 
the  request  of  the  Directors  Moffat  visited  the  Mata- 
bele  again,  and  Ashton's  leaving  while  he  was  absent 
was  out  of  the  question.  Meanwhile,  in  October,  i^>j7, 
the  first  number  of  a  periodical  in  Sechwana,  entitled  T/ir 
Instriicior  and  News  Letter  of  the  Bechwanas,  had  been 
issued  from  the  press  at  Kuruman.  From  this  date  on- 
wards periodical  literature  in  Sechwana  was  steadily  issued 
from  that  press. 

Moffat  visited  Mosilikatse,  spending  some  time  with 
Sechele  and  Sekhome  on  the  way  ;  and  on  his  return  bring- 
ing home  Macheng,  the  rightful  chief  of  the  Bamangwato. 
On  his  return,  early  in  1858,  he  visited  Cape  Town,  and 
then  found  that  very  serious  modifications  had  been  made 
in  the  plans  which  his  visit  to  Mosilikatse  had  been  intended 
to  further.  Writing  under  date  of  April  19  he  points  out 
that  he  had  come  to  Cape  Town  in  1858  for  the  purpose  of 
meeting  Livingstone,  Helmore,  J.  S.  Moffat,  and  other  mis- 
sionaries for  the  Matabele  and  Makololo  missions  ;  but  on 
arriving  there  he  learned  (i)  that  Livingstone  had  dissolved 
his  connection  with  the  Society,  (2)  that  his  son,  J.  S.  Moffat, 
had  done  the  same,  (3)  that  the  brethren  were  not  to  leave 
P^ngland  until  the  Directors  had  heard  from  him  respect- 
ing his  journey  to  Matabeleland,  (4)  that  his  son,  although 


6o2  KURUMAN:   1818-1S95 

his  connection  is  dissolved,  is  to  go  to  the  Makololo, 
although  Moffat  had  promised  Mosilikatse  that  John  should 
go  to  him.  The  puzzled  veteran  wrote  :  '  The  general  im- 
pression has  been  that  Livingstone,  descending  the  Zambesi, 
was  to  open  a  path  to  the  interior,  where  missionaries  can  go 
with  as  much  probability  of  escaping  the  fever  as  they  will 
have  of  passing  through  the  swampy  country  of  Linyanti 
and  the  Chobe.     Verily  I  need  light.' 

These  changes  of  plan  had  been  caused  chiefly  by  the 
fact  that  Livingstone  had  relinquished  his  place  on  the 
Society's  staff  in  order  to  devote  himself  more  fully  and 
more  thoroughly  to  the  task  of  opening  up  Africa  and  of 
suppressing  the  slave-trade.  In  December,  1858,  there 
reached  Kuruman,  Messrs.  J.  Mackenzie,  Roger  Price, 
Wm.  Sykes,  T.  M.  Thomas,  and  J.  S.  Moffat.  Mackenzie 
and  Price,  with  Holloway  Helmore  as  leader  in  the  place 
of  Livingstone,  were  to  open  up  the  Makololo  Mission  ; 
the  other  three,  with  Robert  Moffat  as  leader,  were  to 
begin  work  among  the  Matabele.  The  arrival  of  so  large 
a  number  of  new  workers  naturally  aroused  much  interest 
in  South  Africa.  In  the  Transvaal  it  requickened  the  old 
hostihty  to  missionary  enterprise.  Moffat  was  forbidden 
to  visit  Mosilikatse  ;  and  the  statement  was  widely  spread 
that  missionaries  sold  weapons  and  ammunition  to  the 
natives,  and  thus  enabled  them  to  attack  the  Boers. 
Remonstrances  addressed  by  Sir  George  Grey  to  the 
Government  at  Potchefstrom  put  an  end  to  any  risk  of 
attempts  on  the  part  of  the  Boers  to  hinder  by  force,  as 
they  had  threatened,  the  two  new  missions.  The  details  of 
the  Makololo  and  Matabele  missions  are  given  in  subse- 
quent chapters. 

In  October,  1861,  Roger  Price  married  Elizabeth  Moffat. 
The  period  from  1863  to  1866  were  years  of  uneventful 
work  at  Kuruman,  and  in  1867  Robert  Moffat,  of  Kuruman, 
and  John  P^rownlee,  of  Kaffraria,  completed  their  fiftieth 
year  of  missionary  service.  In  1870  Moffat  left  Kuruman 
for  the  last  time.  On  Sunday,  March  20,  he  preached  his 
last  sermon  there,  and  on  Friday,  March  25,  he  left  the 


MOFFAT S  RETURN  HOME  603 

scene  of  so  many  toils  and  prayers,  joys  and  sorrows, 
failures  and  successes. 

'On  Sunday,  March  20,  1870,  Robert  Moffat  preached 
for  the  last  time  in  the  Kuruman  church.  In  all  that 
great  congregation  there  were  few  of  his  own  con- 
temporaries. The  older  people  were  for  the  most  part 
children  at  the  time  when  they  had  first  seen  the  mis- 
sionaries. With  a  pathetic  grace  peculiarly  his  own,  he 
pleaded  with  those  who  still  remained  unbelieving  amid 
the  Gospel  privileges  they  had  now  enjoyed  so  many  years. 
With  a  fatherly  benediction  he  commended  to  the  grace 
of  God  those  who  had  been  to  him  a  joy  and  crown.  It 
was  an  impressive  close  to  an  impressive  career. 

*  On  Friday  following  the  departure  took  place.  For 
weeks  before  messages  of  farewell  had  been  coming  from 
the  more  distant  towns  and  villages,  from  those  who  w^ere 
unable  to  come  themselves.  But  the  final  scene  was  such 
as  could  scarcely  be  described  in  words.  As  the  old  mis- 
sionary and  his  wife  came  out  of  their  door  and  walked  to 
their  waggon  they  were  beset  by  the  crowds,  each  longing 
for  one  more  touch  of  the  hand  and  one  more  word  ;  and 
as  the  waggon  drove  away  it  was  followed  by  all  who 
could  walk,  and  a  long  and  pitiful  wail  rose,  enough  to 
melt  the  hardest  hearth' 

Moffat  himself,  when  on  August  i,  1870,  he  was  formally 
welcomed  home  by  the  Board  of  Directors,  thus  spoke  of 
this  scene  : — 

'  How  it  is  to  go  with  me  I  know  not.  I  shall  do  all 
that  in  me  lies  for  the  advancement  of  the  missionaiy  cause. 
I  shall  not  fail,  wherever  I  am,  to  use  all  the  means  within 
my  power,  by  presence  and  word,  to  advance  that  great 
cause  to  which  I  have  devoted  my  life.  It  would  have 
been  pleasant  just  to  have  remained  with  the  people  among 
whom  I  have  laboured  so  long,  by  whom  I  am  beloved, 
and  whom  I  love.  Oh,  that  parting  was  a  scene  hard  to 
witness  without  deep  emotion  !  Not  only  from  Christian 
converts  but  from  heathen   chiefs   did  I  receive  tokens  of 

'    The  Lives  0/  Kobe  it  and  Mary  Noffaf,  pp.  363,  364. 


6o4  KURUMAN:  1818-1S95 

good  will.  Their  amanuenses  brought  letters  deploring 
my  departure,  and  presents  to  induce  me  not  to  quit  the 
country,  but  to  remain,  promising  to  give  me  so  much 
more  if  1  would  but  remain.  It  was  gratifying  to  see  these 
tokens,  especially  from  the  heathen,  and  those  able  to 
appreciate  one's  labours  among  them.  One  sent  an  ox, 
another  a  kaross,  and  so  on  ;  a  lady  of  quality  sent  me 
four  feathers.  Some  of  them  asked  how  they  were  to  live, 
how  they  were  to  exist,  if  I  went  out  of  the  country ;  that 
is  a  form  of  expression  among  them.  It  is  consolatory  to 
think  that  the  influence  of  the  Gospel  in  that  dark  benighted 
country  is  spreading,  and  is  going  into  the  interior,  cover- 
ing hamlet  after  hamlet,  until  its  advance,  let  us  be  assured, 
will  cover  the  whole  land.  It  is  for  us  to  pray  and  labour, 
and  we  have  the  assurance  that  Ethiopia  shall  yet  stretch 
out  her  hands  to  God^' 

At  Port  Elizabeth  in  May,  and  at  Cape  Town  on 
June  3.  large  numbers  of  missionaries  and  Christian  friends 
assembled  to  wish  the  veteran  and  his  wife  God-speed. 
At  the  former  place  Moffat  gave,  as  he  alone  could,  some 
conception  of  the  changes  in  Africa  during  his  half-century 
of  toil  :— 

'Christianity  has  already  accomplished  much  in  this 
country.  When  I  first  went  to  the  Kuruman  scarcely  an 
individual  could  go  beyond.  Now  they  travel  in  safety  to 
the  Zambesi.  Then  we  were  strangers,  and  they  could  not 
comprehend  us.  They  treated  us  with  great  indignity,  and 
considered  us  to  be  the  outcasts  of  society,  who,  being 
driven  from  our  own  race,  went  to  reside  with  them  ;  but, 
bearing  in  remembrance  what  our  Saviour  had  to  undergo, 
we  were  encouraged  to  persevere,  and  much  success  has 
rewarded  our  efforts.  Now  it  is  safe  to  traverse  any  part 
of  the  country,  and  traders  travel  far  beyond  Kuruman 
without  the  slightest  fear  of  molestation.  Formerly,  men 
of  one  tribe  even  could  not  travel  through  another's  terri- 
tory, and  wars  were  fought.  The  influence  of  Christianity 
in  that  country  is  now  very  great,  and  constantly  increas- 

^   Chronicle,  1S70,  pp.  189,  190. 


DEATHS   OF  ROBERT  AND  MRS.  MOFFAT     605 

ing.  Where  one  station  was  scarcely  tolerated,  there  are 
now  several.  Our  advance  station  at  the  Matabele  is  in 
a  very  prosperous  state,  and  I  quite  expect  that  the  Mata- 
bele will  become  one  day  a  great  nation.  They  sternly 
obey  their  own  laws  :  and  I  have  noticed  that  when  men 
of  fixed  principles  become  convinced  of  the  great  truths 
of  Christianity,  they  hold  firmly  to  the  faith,  and  their 
fidelity  is  not  lightly  to  be  shaken. 

'  In  former  times  the  natives  could  not  be  prevailed  upon 
to  buy  anything  from  traders  in  the  shape  of  merchan- 
dise ;  not  even  so  much  as  a  pocket-handkerchief.  They 
could  not  be  disposed  of,  as  the  natives  were  not  enlightened 
sufficiently  to  appreciate  anything  like  that.  If  they  did 
buy,  it  would  only  be  a  few  trinkets  or  some  beads  ;  but 
nothing  of  a  substantial  character  was  ever  bought.  It 
is  not  so  now,  however,  for  no  less  a  sum  than  sixty  thou- 
sand pounds'  worth  of  British  manufactures  pass  yearly 
into  the  hands  of  the  native  tribes  near  and  about 
Kuruman  ^.' 

In  January,  1871,  Mrs.  Moffat  died;  and  on  August  9, 
1883,  the  long  and  useful  life  of  Robert  Moffat  came  to 
a  close.  During  the  thirteen  years  he  amply  fulfilled  his 
own  promise  to  '  use  all  means,  by  presence  and  word,  to 
advance  that  great  cause  to  which  he  had  devoted  his  Hfe.' 
His  noble  form  was  an  inspiration  to  multitudes  at  the 
various  meetings  he  attended.  Never  sparing  himself,  he 
was  ever  stirring  up  others  to  renewed  energy  and  conse- 
cration in  the  work  of  evangelizing  the  world.  Behind  the 
clasp  of  his  hand,  the  flash  of  his  eye,  the  sound  of  his 
voice,  were  those  fifty-three  years  of  steady,  earnest  labour, 
during  which  over  a  large  area  in  Africa  he  had  seen 
civilization  replace  barbarism,  and,  in  many  darkened 
hearts,  the  joy  and  peace  and  grace  of  the  Gospel  of 
Christ  Jesus  replace  the  bitterness  and  fear  and  despair 
of  heathenism. 

J.  S.  Moffat  remained  for  a  time  in  charge  at  Kuruman. 
All  of  the  stations  in  South  Africa  which  have  involved 

'   Chronicle,  1S70,  p.  177. 


6o6  KURUMAN:   1818-1895 

the  holding  o(  land  have  experienced  from  time  to  time 
serious  difficulties  in  administration.  Kuruman  was  no 
exception,  for  in  May,  1870,  J.  S.  Moffat  writes :  '  It  would 
be  a  blessing  if  the  land  incumbrances  of  this  station  could 
be  got  rid  of.  .  .  .  The  landlord  relation  to  the  people 
interferes  with  our  spiritual  power,  apart  from  the  distrac- 
tion of  thought,  and  waste  of  time.'  For  many  years  this 
question  in  various  forms  cropped  up.  In  1886  the  matter 
was  finally  settled  by  a  Land  Commission,  acting  under 
the  authority  of  the  Cape  Legislature,  who  confirmed  the 
Society's  title  to  ail  the  lands  occupied  by  them  at  Kuru- 
man. These  are  now  held  by  the  Society  at  a  quit  rent  of 
£1  per  annum,  and,  in  the  event  of  their  ceasing  to  be 
occupied  for  missionary  purposes,  they  are  to  revert  to  the 
Crown.  Lands  at  Taung  and  Motito  were  included  in  the 
same  settlement.  Some  of  the  missionaries  thought  these 
conditions  just,  a  view  not  shared  by  Roger  Price,  the 
superintendent  at  Kuruman. 

Since  1870  the  course  of  affairs  at  Kuruman  has  been 
somewhat  troubled.  It  lies  100  miles  away  from  the  great 
trunk  route  of  African  traffic,  and  has,  to  a  large  extent, 
ceased  to  be  a  centre  of  influence.  At  no  distant  date  it 
may  revert  to  the  Crown.  Differences  of  view  among  the 
workers  from  time  to  time  have  adversely  affected  its 
prosperity.  These  have  affected  chiefly  two  important 
forms  of  work — the  Moffat  Institution  and  the  printing 
press. 

The  Moffat  Institution  for  the  training  of  native  evan- 
gelists was  begun  by  Mr.  Mackenzie  at  Shoshong  in  1872. 
A  large  sum  of  money  had  been  collected  in  England  as 
a  token  of  regard  for  Robert  Moffat,  and  was  applied  to 
this  purpose.  In  1873  the  decision  was  made  to  remove 
the  institution  to  Kuruman.  Although  the  institution  has 
been  carried  on  there  ever  since,  it  has  never  realized  the 
hopes  and  expectations  of  its  projectors.  The  reasons 
for  this  have  been  numerous.  The  remote  situation  and 
sparse  population  of  Kuruman  ;  the  prosperity  of  Lovedale ; 
the  disputes  between  J.  S.  Moffat  and  his  brethren;   the 


THE  MOFFAT  INSTITUTION  607 

indolent  character  of  the  natives  have  all  contributed  to 
the  disappointment  of  the  promoters  and  supporters  of 
the  Moffat  Institution. 

Though  the  decision  to  remove  the  institution  to  Kuru- 
man  was  made  in  1873.  it  was  1876  before  the  permanent 
building  was  erected.  The  work  was  greatly  delayed  by 
the  strong  opposition  of  J.  S.  Moffat,  and  the  differences 
between  him  and  his  senior  colleague,  Mr.  Ashton.  Ulti- 
mately Moffat  removed  from  Kuruman  to  Molepolole.  and 
in  1879  resigned  finally  his  connection  with  the  Society. 
Mackenzie  removed  to  Kuruman  in  1H76,  and  superintended 
the  institution  there,  combining  with  this  work  the  charge 
of  the  native  church  and  congregation.  In  1^85  he  was 
succeeded  by  Roger  Price,  having  himself,  in  1884,  accepted 
the  Government  appointment  of  Resident  Commissioner 
in  Bechwanaland.  This  appointment  he  resigned  in  a  feu- 
months. 

From  the  opening  of  the  Institution  the  greatest  hin- 
drance to  success  has  been  the  scarcity  of  suitable  young 
natives  sufficiently  advanced  to  benefit  by  the  teaching. 
'  This  institution,'  runs  the  Report  for  1885  1, '  has  laboured 
ever  since  its  commencement  under  the  difficulty  of  obtain- 
ing students  who  had  already  received  an  elementary  school 
training  of  such  a  character  as  to  fit  them  to  enter  at  once 
with  intelligence  into  the  special  studies  required  to  fit 
them  for  their  work.  It  has,  however,  already  done  good 
service.  With  an  average  of  eight  students  it  has  for 
several  years  sent  out  evangelists  to  various  parts  of 
Bechwanaland.' 

In  the  hope  of  aiding  the  work  of  the  institution,  in 
1886  a  Boys'  Boarding  School  was  established  at  Kuruman 
under  the  care  of  Mr.  J.  Tom  Brown.  The  number  at 
this  school  in  1890  was  twenty-one.  But  in  1891  one  of 
those  checks  so  common  in  South  African  work  came 
upon  the  school,  and,  during  the  absence  of  Mr.  Brown  on 
furlough  in  1895,  the  school  was  closed.  By  the  centenary 
year  thirty-five  evangelists  who  had  been  trained  in  the 

'  P.  129. 


6o8  KURUMAN:  1S1S-1S95 

Moffat    Institution    were    at    work    in    different    parts    of 
Bechwanaland. 

The  changes  in  the  mission  staff  at  Kuruman  during  the 
twenty  years  from  1875  to  1895  were  not  very  numerous. 
The  Rev.  Roger  Price  has  been  senior  missionary  since 
1S85.  Mr.  John  Brown  laboured  there  from  1877  to  1885  ; 
Mr.  A.  J.  Wookey  from  1882  to  3885.  Mr.  A.  J.  Gould 
has  been  in  charge  of  the  printing  press  since  1882,  and 
Mr.  J.  Tom  Brown  of  educational  work  since  1886. 

Since  Kuruman  was  the  place  where  the  Bible  was 
translated  into  Sechwana,  since  from  it,  as  a  centre,  the 
light  of  the  Gospel  has  gone  forth  to  Bechwanaland  and 
Matabeleland,  and  even  to  Central  Africa,  it  must  ever 
hold  a  high  place  in  the  story  of  African  evangelization. 
But  as  the  century  closes  there  are  not  a  few  indications 
that  the  strong  currents  of  life  and  influence  are  passing 
away  from  it,  and  that  Kuruman  can  hardly  hope  to  main- 
tain, during  the  second  century  of  the  Society's  life,  the 
place  and  power  it  has  enjoyed  during  so  large  a  portion 
of  the  first.  In  missionary  work,  no  less  than  in  other 
departments,  the  stream  passes  onwards.  The  one  certainty 
is  that,  if  His  people  are  faithful,  God  w^ill  raise  up  worthy 
successors  to  Hamilton,  Moffat,  and  Ashton,  and  ennoble 
other  sites  with  a  like  glory  to  that  which  is  Kuruman's 
imperishable  possession. 


CHAPTER  XXIII 

DAVID   LIVINGSTONE   AND   HIS   WORK 

On  July  31,  1 841,  David  Livingstone  reached  Kuruman. 
As  early  as  September  in  the  same  year  he  came  to  the 
conclusion  that,  from  its  lack  of  population,  Kuruman 
could  never  become  what  his  fancy  had  pictured  it,  '  a  sort 
of  focus,  from  which  might  diverge  in  every  direction  the 
beams  of  divine  truth.'  In  this  month,  in  company  with 
Rogers  Edwards,  he  visited  the  Bakwaina,  and,  in  writing 
to  Mr.  Arundel  on  December  22,  characteristically  notes  that 
in  his  journey  he  has  been  about  250  miles  to  the  north, 
further  than  any  missionary  has  travelled  before.  He  also 
expresses  strongly  his  view  that  the  chief  requisite  for  the 
active  prosecution  and  extension  of  the  mission  is  competent 
native  agency.  Early  in  1842  he  made  a  second  and  still 
longer  journey  into  the  interior,  accompanied  by  Edwards. 
In  the  course  of  this  excursion  he  visited  the  Bakwaina, 
Bamangwato,  Bakaa,  and  Makalaka.  and  discovered  the 
existence  of  no  less  than  twenty- eight  tribes  hitherto 
unknown  to  Europeans.  Sekhome.  the  chief  of  the 
Bamangwato,  received  him  gladly.  '  You  have  come  to 
us  like  the  rain.'  Livingstone's  keen  insight  noted  many  of 
the  native  peculiarities.  They  were  eager  for  a  missionar\'. 
but  chiefly  from  the  belief  that,  if  one  resided  in  their 
midst,  they  would  be  quite  safe  from  their  enemies.  The\' 
had  a  conception  of  God,  but  it  was  one  that  conveyed  no 
more  than  the  idea  of  superiority.     In  common  use  the}- 

I.  R  r 


6io         DAVID  LIVINGSTONE  AND  HIS   WORK 

applied  their  name  for  God  to  their  own  chiefs.  Sekhome, 
the  chief,  wanted  his  heart,  which,  from  his  own  confession^ 
was  '  proud  and  angry  alway,'  changed  ;  but  he  was  under 
the  impression  this  could  be  managed  by  taking  some  of 
Livingstone's  medicine. 

During  the  early  part  of  1843  Livingstone  paid  another 
visit  to  Sechele,  who  was  curious  about  Christian  teaching. 
About  this  time  the  news  of  the  opening  up  of  China  to 
enlarged  missionary  effort  reached  him,  and  he  records 
that  '  he  felt  again  the  glowings  of  his  heart  towards  that 
country.'  Considering  the  comparatively  small  population 
of  Africa,  he  was  then  of  opinion  that  there  were  already 
too  many  missionaries  in  it.  He  had  little  faith  in  the 
efficacy  of  the  district  committee  method  of  management, 
introduced  at  Kuruman  in  1843.  He  based  this  view 
upon  the  fact  that  the  '  salutary  influence  of  enlightened 
public  opinion  is  entirely  wanting.' 

In  August,  1843,  the  preliminary  steps  were  taken  for 
the  establishment  of  a  mission  by  Livingstone  and  Edwards 
among  the  Bakhatla,  at  a  place  called  Mabotsa.  The 
natives  welcomed  them  in  the  conviction  that  'by  their 
presence  and  prayers  they  would  have  plenty  of  rain, 
beads,  and  guns.'  For  a  gun,  value  £4,  a  strip  of  land  two 
miles  long  and  a  mile  and  a  half  broad  was  purchased,  as 
a  site.  It  was  while  at  Mabotsa,  early  in  1844,  that 
Livingstone  had  his  famous  encounter  with  the  lion,  which 
so  nearly  ended  his  life.  Towards  the  close  of  the  same 
year  he  married  Mary  Moffat.  In  the  course  of  1846 
serious  differences  arose  between  Livingstone  and  his 
colleague.  The  latter  was  an  artisan  missionary,  who 
seems  to  have  been  apt  at  taking  offence,  and  prone  to 
magnify  trifles.  Finally,  Livingstone  decided  to  leave 
Edwards  to  carry  on  work  at  Mabotsa  alone,  while  he 
himself  went  to  the  Bakwaina,  of  whom  Sechele  was  chief, 
and  from  whom  he  had  received  earnest  invitations  to 
come  and  be  his  missionary.  Hq  removed  to  Chonuane. 
Already  troubles  with  the  Boers  of  the  Transvaal  were 
beginning.     They  had  seized   all  the  fountains,  and  were 


LIVINGSTONE  BEGINS  HIS    TRAVELS         6ii 

allowing  the  natives  to  live  in  the  country  only  by  suffer- 
ance. The  first  year's  work  among  Sechele's  people  had 
led  to  no  conversions,  but  progress  had  been  made  in  the 
way  of  Sunday  observance,  and  Sechele  and  some  of  the 
chiefs  adopted  European  clothing.  In  1846  Livingstone 
was  again  at  Mabotsa,  and  in  1847,  with  Sechele  and  the 
Bakwaina  tribe,  he  removed  to  a  new  station  on  the  river 
Kolobeng,  200  miles  north-east  of  Kuruman.  Here  Living- 
stone passed  some  useful  and  happy  years.  The  chief 
event  was  the  conversion  of  Sechele.  '  The  Bakwaina,' 
wrote  Livingstone  in  1848,  'generally  resist  an  invitation, 
or,  if  they  listen  to  our  message,  it  is  with  the  firm 
persuasion  that  they  have  been  preserved  to  old  age  by 
some  medicine  or  other,  and  it  would  be  folly,  at  their  time 
of  life,  to  think  of  another  Saviour.  From  the  first  day  of 
our  residence  Sechele  attended  school  and  all  our  services 
with  unwearying  regularity.  The  first  indication  of  deep 
feeling  which  I  observed  in  him  was  when,  sitting  together 
under  our  wagon  during  the  heat  of  the  day,  I  endea- 
voured to  describe  to  him  "the  great  white  throne,"  and 
"  the  judgment-seat."  He  said,  "  These  words  shake  all  my 
bones — my  strength  is  gone.'"  Sechele  was  gradually 
led  to  a  belief  in  revelation,  and  he  showed  his  faith  by 
his  works ;  he  put  away  his  many  wives.  He  was  baptized 
by  Livingstone. 

In  June,  1849,  Livingstone  began  that  series  of  mar- 
vellous journeys  which  were  to  make  his  name  for  ever 
famous  in  the  story  of  African  exploration,  and  at  the 
same  time  do  so  much,  first  in  making  known  the  woes  of 
Africa,  and  then  in  remedying  them.  But  the  entrance 
upon  this  work,  though  he  neither  foresaw  nor  desired  it, 
was  the  beginning  of  the  end  of  his  work  as  a  missionary 
of  the  Society.  In  company  with  Messrs.  Oswell  and 
Murray,  leaving  Kolobeng  June  i,  1849,  on  August  1 
he  discovered  Lake  Ngami.  He  returned  to  Kolobeng 
October  10,  1849.  In  April,  1850,  accompanied  by 
Mrs.  Livingstone  and  three  children,  he  started  on  the 
still   longer  journey,  intending  to   visit   Linyanti  and  the 

R  r  3 


6i2         DAVID  LIVINGSTONE  AND  HIS    IVORK 

chief  Sebituanc.  The  party  reached  Lake  NgamI,  but 
then  sickness  compelled  them  to  return. 

In  a  letter  from  Kolobeng,  dated  August  24,  1850,  and 
never  before  published,  Livingstone  gives  at  some  length 
his  views  on  missionary  methods,  after  nine  years'  expe- 
rience in  South  Africa.  They  were  to  the  effect  that 
a  tribe  should  have  a  trial.  The  Gospel  should  be  offered 
fully,  energetically,  and  for  some  years;  then,  if  they 
neglected  the  message,  the  missionary  should  move  on  to 
tribes  to  whom  the  Gospel  had  not  yet  been  offered. 

'  The  Bechwana  Mission  began  at  the  Kuruman,  and  the 
attention  of  the  missionaries  was  directed  chiefly  to  the 
Batlapi.  No  visible  success  attended  their  labours,  but 
the  tribe  got  a  fair  tibial;  and,  instead  of  the  missionaries 
removing  at  the  conclusion  of  the  trial,  the  experiment  was 
performed  for  our  instruction  in  the  opposite  way.  The 
Batlapi  left  the  missionaries.  The  tribe  divided  into 
several  fragments  soon  after  leaving,  and,  without  following 
their  wanderings,  we  may  just  note  their  positions  as — 
those  under  Motheebe  at  Lekatlong,  Lingopeng,  and 
Borigelong;  those  under  Mahura,  and  Motlabani,  and 
Flaganyane  at  Taung,  Mamusa,  and  Lithako.  You  will 
remember  that  Mr.  Moffat,  in  his  work,  mentions  that  the 
first  success  they  subsequently  had  at  Kuruman  was 
among  a  small  tribe  of  Balala  called  Bachaine  (of  which 
Paul  and  Mebalse  here  are  members),  and  a  lot  of  refugees 
from  the  interior.  But  the  seed  had  been  sown  in  the 
hearts  of  the  Batlapi  too.  The  trial  had  been  made,  and 
tlie  results  were  as  follows.  When  the  party  which  settled 
down  at  Lekatlong  had  got  a  little  time  for  reflection,  they 
actually  sent  a  deputation  of  their  number  to  the  nearest 
mission-station,  Griqua  Town,  to  beg  instruction  ;  and  the 
brethren  there  being  unable  to  supply  them  with  a  mission- 
ary, the  people  sent  individuals  statedly  to  Griqua  Town, 
to  receive  a  little  instruction,  and,  while  they  returned  to 
Lekatlong  to  impart  that  little,  others  were  sent  to  receive 
a  fresh  supply.  This  system  went  on  till  many  were  fit  for 
fellowship,  and,  when  the  missionaries  went  for  the  first  time, 


LIVINGSTONE'S   ^  TRIAL  '  PLAN  613 

they  were  surprised  and  delighted  with  the  progress  they 
liad  made.  The  visits  of  the  brethren  ever  afterwards  were 
for  the  purpose  of  examining  candidates  and  receiving  them 
into  fellowship.  Before  a  European  missionary  came  to 
settle  among  them,  there  were  upwards  of  one  hundred  in 
the  church  ;  and  when  I  visited  Lekatlong  a  short  time  after 
Mr.  Helmore's  settlement  there,  religious  profession  was 
rather  too  fashionable.  He  found  it  necessary  rather  to 
restrain  than  urge  to  a  confession  of  Christ.  As  we  are 
reviewing  the  subject  privately,  no  one's  feelings  will  be 
hurt  by  supposing  we  think  little  of  his  labours.  But 
I  think  you  will  agree  with  me  in  thinking  that  up  to  the 
pe7'iod  of  Mr.  Helmore's  settlement,  the  fruits  were  those 
of  the  trial  made  at  Kuruman.  Mr.  Wright  did  not,  so  far 
as  I  recollect,  look  upon  the  work  in  any  other  light. 

'  The  distance  has  always  prevented  the  Kuruman 
brethren  from  visiting,  with  any  regularity,  the  next  division 
of  Motheebe's  people,  settled  at  Borigelong :  but  the  seed 
was  sown  before  they  left  that  station.  The  native  teacher 
was  sent  after  a  wish  had  been  expressed  by  the  people, 
and,  when  he  w^nt,  his  position  was  totally  difterent  from 
that  to  Sebube  among  the  Wanketse.  The  Gospel  having 
been  deposited,  the  influences  of  the  Holy  Spirit  soon 
caused  the  fruits  to  appear :  and  the  result  of  the  trial  has 
been  especially  satisfactory ;  for  we  have  had  a  church 
planted  in  the  midst  of  a  mass  of  heathenism,  and  every 
year  there  has  been  what  Dr.  Chalmers  called  "  an  excava- 
tion "  going  on.  This  experiment  clearly  proves  that 
a  respectable  church  may  result  from  such  a  trial  as 
I  advocate,  and  that  church  be  anything  but  a  feeble 
standstill  one,  though  it  does  not  receive  a  European 
missionary  as  its  pastor.  Lingopeng  is  a  twin  experiment, 
and  equally  satisfactory.  The  future  will  determine  which 
will  furnish  the  healthiest  children,  those  who  have  received 
little  or  much  nursing. 

'  The  division  under  Mahura,  including  the  Bamaeries 
and  Flaganyane,  exhibits  another  important  feature  in  the 
Bechwana  Mission.     Let  the  chief  of  any  locality  exhibit 


6i4         DAVID  LIVINGSTONE  AND  HIS   WORK 

determined  opposition  to  the  Gospel,  i^w  or  none  of  his 
people  ever  profess  their  faith  in  Christ  till  he  alters  his 
conduct  or  is  removed  by  death.  Mahura  altered  his 
conduct  in  order  to  increase  his  town  by  drawing  a  number 
of  believers  from  other  parts.  Had  he  not  done  so,  it 
would  have  been  a  mere  waste  of  life  for  a  European  to 
have  lived  with  him.  Flaganyane  never  altered  his  conduct, 
and  he  had  no  believers  under  him.  Mochuara,  who,  with 
his  Barolongs,  enjoyed  the  ministrations  of  Lemue  and 
Langa  for  a  great  many  years,  acted  on  the  principle  of 
getting  all  the  temporal  good  out  of  the  missionaries  he 
could,  while  fully  determined  never  to  believe  the  Gospel  ; 
and  not  a  single  individual  under  him  ever  attempted  to  pro- 
fess Christ.  Mochuara  even  sent  an  advice  to  the  above  effect 
to  Mosielele  at  Mabotsa,  when  we  removed  thither.  In  the 
cases  of  Mahura,  Flaganyane,  and  the  Bamaeries,  we  have  no 
fruits  from  the  trial  apparent  np  to  the  period  of  Mr.  Ross's 
settlement.  But  no  one  will  deny  the  existence  of  a  pre- 
paredness, and  not  even  that  appeared  in  the  Barolongs  of 
Mochuara,  although  Mr.  Lemue  and  Langa  spent  half 
a  lifetime  upon  them.  As  it  is  with  the  Bechwana  Mission 
in  its  private  development  I  am  most  familiar,  I  can  only 
point  you  to  its  history,  and  request  you  to  say  whether  it 
warrants  the  inference  that  the  removal  of  a  mission  would 
cause  an  ultimate  loss  of  success.  To  me  those  who  never 
heard  the  Gospel  are  greater  objects  of  compassion  than 
those  who  have  heard  it  for  seven  years  and  rejected  it. 
The  plan  of  trial  would  perhaps  tend  to  the  more  rapid 
extension  of  the  knowledge  of  Christ  in  the  world.' 

In  April,  1851,  Livingstone,  accompanied  by  his  family 
and  Mr.  Osvvell,  started  again  to  reach  the  Zambesi.  This 
time,  after  a  long  and  trying  journey,  he  succeeded.  He 
met  Sebituane,  the  renowned  Makololo  chief,  of  whom 
even  Mosilikatse  stood  in  awe,  and  of  whom  Livingstone 
says,  '  He  was  decidedly  the  best  specimen  of  a  native  chief 
I  ever  met.'  But  very  shortly  after  their  meeting  Sebituane 
died.  He  was  succeeded  by  his  daughter  Mamochisane, 
who  confirmed   the  permission   already  granted  that   the 


LIVINGSTONE  AND   THE  SLAVE-TRADE       615 

party  might  visit  any  portion  they  wished  of  the  Makololo 
country.  Availing  themselves  gladly  of  this  permit, 
Livingstone  and  Oswell  travelled  130  miles  to  the  north- 
east of  Shesheke,  and  'in  the  end  of  June,  1851,  we  were 
rewarded  by  the  discovery  of  the  Zambesi,  in  the  centre  of 
the  continent.  This  was  a  most  important  point,  for  that 
river  was  not  known  to  exist  there  at  all.'  As  Kolobeng 
was,  in  Livingstone's  judgment,  rendered  useless  as  a  mission- 
ary centre  by  the  hostility  of  the  Boers,  he  resolved  to  do 
what  he  could  for  the  Makololo  district.  Two  great  difficulties 
were  in  the  way.  For  purposes  of  safety  and  protection,  the 
natives  lived  in  low  and  reedy  districts,  which  were  so  deadly 
that  none  but  acclimatized  natives  could  live  there.  Then 
the  slave-trade  was  just  springing  into  active  life,  and  Living- 
stone saw  that  the  only  way  efficiently  to  destroy  it  would 
be  to  open  up  trade  from  the  east  coast.  Livingstone 
therefore  resolved  to  send  his  family  to  England,  explore 
the  country  thoroughly,  and  when  a  suitable  place 
for  work  was  established,  bring  back  Mrs.  Livingstone. 
'  This  resolution  brought  me  down  to  the  Cape  in  April, 
1852,  being  the  first  time  during  eleven  years  that  I  had 
visited  the  scenes  of  civilization.'  The  Directors  had  left 
Livingstone  to  his  own  discretion,  and  he  parted  with  his 
family  for  two  years  as  he  thought,  but,  as  it  turned  out,  for 
five  long  years  of  travel  and  discovery. 

Livingstone  did  not  reach  this  momentous  decision  with- 
out mental  conflict.  In  a  letter  to  the  Directors  dated 
October  17,1851,  he  writes:  'Personally  I  would  prefer  a  quiet 
life  among  the  Bakwaina.  Some  of  the  brethren  do  not 
hesitate  to  tell  the  natives  that  my  object  is  to  obtain  the 
applause  of  men.  Severe  expressions  have  been  used  even 
by  those  whom  I  esteem.'  After  describing  the  needs  of 
the  Makololo,  and  the  opportunities  of  the  region  as 
a  station,  and  requesting  their  permission,  he  character- 
istically adds:  'But  stay — so  powerfully  convinced  am 
I  that  it  is  the  will  of  our  Lord  I  should,  I  will  go,  no 
matter  who  opposes.  But  from  you  I  expect  nothing 
but    encouragement.      I    know    you   wish    as    ardently  as 


6i6         DAVID  LIVINGSTONE  AND  HIS   WORK 

I    can    that    the   world    may   be    filled    with    the    glory 
of  God.' 

Letters  like  this  could  hardly  prove  acceptable  to  the 
whole  Board  of  Directors.  Strong  influences,  both  at  the 
Cape  and  in  London,  were  in  favour  of  methods  in  South 
Africa  quite  contrary  to  those  commended  by  Livingstone. 
Some  advocated  the  strengthening  of  work  already  begun, 
rather  than  the  opening  up  of  new  centres  far  away  from 
any  base.  Others  failed  to  see  that  Livingstone  might 
be  doing  more  for  the  Gospel  in  Africa  in  five  years  of 
exploration  than  could  be  achieved  by  fifty  years  of  quiet 
work  in  a  fixed  station.  Thus,  in  writing  to  Dr.  Tidman 
from  the  Cape,  on  March  17,  1852,  Livingstone  says: 
'A  mission  in  the  paltry  village  of  Colesberg,  already 
supplied  with  a  Wesleyan  and  an  S.P.G.  missionary,  and 
a  Dutch  Reformed  minister,  is  allowed  to  draw,  on  an 
average,  more  than  twice  as  much  as  a  mission  500  miles 
beyond  the  same  market.  Moffat,  "  the  apostle  of  the 
Bechwanas,"  is  allowed  to  draw  only  a  little  over  ;^ioo, 
while  the  man  at  Colesberg  draws  ^211.' 

Yet  the  Directors  agreed  to  Livingstone's  request  for 
two  years'  freedom  in  order  to  inspect  the  country,  and 
suggested  he  should  take  a  companion.  But  he  could  find 
no  suitable  companion,  and  so  finally  decided  to  go  alone. 
He  left  the  Cape  in  June,  1852,  journeyed  to  Kuruman, 
and,  while  he  was  there,  Moffat  received  a  letter  from 
Sechele,  describing  the  ferocious  attack  upon  Kolobeng  by 
the  Boers.  '  They  killed  sixty  of  my  people,  and  captured 
women,  and  children,  and  men.  They  took  all  the  cattle 
and  all  the  goods  of  the  Bakwaina ;  and  the  house  of 
Livingstone  they  plundered,  taking  away  all  his  goods.' 
The  only  result  in  Livingstone's  case  was  to  enable  him 
to  feel  still  freer  than  ever  to  undertake  the  work  of 
exploration.  Sechele  started  on  a  visit  to  Queen  Victoria, 
to  protest  against  the  action  of  the  Boers,  and  actually 
reached  Cape  Town.  There  his  funds  became  exhausted, 
and  he  had  to  return  to  his  people.  Livingstone,  after 
a  brief  visit  to  Kolobeng,  journeyed  on  to  the  Makololo,  of 


DEATH  OF  LIVINGSTONE  617 

which  Sekeletu  was  now  chief.  He  found  this  chief  at 
Linyanti.  which  he  reached  in  May,  1853.  With  Sekeletu 
he  went  to  Shesheke,  and  then  up  the  Zambesi  to  Nariele, 
in  an  unsuccessful  search  for  a  mission-site,  returning  again 
to  Linyanti.  Leaving  that  place  November  11,  1853,  with 
a  courage,  skill,  and  perseverance  that  are  unsurpassed  in 
the  annals  of  missionary  exploration,  he  made  his  way  first 
to  St.  Paul  de  Loanda,  the  capital  of  Angola,  on  the  west 
coast,  arriving  on  May  31,  1854.  After  staying  there  four 
months,  on  September  20,  1854,  he  recrossed  the  entire 
continent  of  Africa,  a  second  time  visiting  Sekeletu,  and 
travelling  by  the  way  of  Zambesi,  visiting  the  now  famous 
Victoria  Falls,  to  Quilimane,  on  the  east  coast,  which  he 
reached  on  May  20,  1856.  All  the  details  of  this  memorable 
achievement  have  long  been  before  the  world  in  his  book, 
Missionary  Travels  i?i  South  Africa  (1857),  a  work  calcu- 
lated to  delight  many  classes  of  readers,  but  especially 
worthy  of  the  study,  even  in  these  days,  of  all  who  have 
the  evangelization  of  Africa  at  heart. 

Livingstone  reached  England  on  December  12,  1856. 
He  found  himself  famous.  In  December,  1854,  the  Uni- 
versity of  Glasgow  had  conferred  the  degree  of  LL.D. 
upon  him;  and  in  May.  1855,  the  Queens  Gold  Medal 
was  awarded  to  him  by  the  Royal  Geographical  Society. 
Shortly  after  reaching  England,  his  official  connection  with 
the  Society  ceased.  His  after  career  can  be  traced  in  his 
books.  TJie  Zambesi  and  its  Tributaries  (1865),  Last 
Journals  of  David  Livingstone  (1874),  and  in  The  Per- 
sonal Life  of  David  Livingsto7ie,  by  Dr.  Blaikie  (1880). 
Mrs.  Livingstone  died  at  Shupanga,  on  the  Zambesi, 
April  27,  1862  ;  and  Livingstone  himself,  a  martyr  in  the 
cause  of  the  religious  emancipation  of  Africa,  at  Ilala,  in 
Central  Africa,  on  May  1,  1873.  The  body,  which  had 
been  safely  carried  to  the  coast  by  his  faithful  natives, 
found  a  fitting  resting-place  in  Westminster  Abbey,  on 
April   18,   1874. 


CHAPTER    XXIV 

THE   MISSION    TO   THE    MAKOLOLO 

The  imagination  of  the  British  Christian  public  had 
been  kindled  b)^  the  achievements  of  Livingstone,  and 
renewed  enthusiasm  in  the  evangelization  of  heathen 
Africa  aroused.  They  endorsed,  and  began  to  put  into 
practice,  the  explorer's  own  maxim :  '  The  end  of  the 
geographical  fact  is  but  the  beginning  of  the  missionary 
enterprise.'  On  February  lo,  1H57,  the  Directors,  at  a  special 
meeting,  adopted  a  far-reaching  resolution.  It  ran  :  'That 
two  new  mission-stations  should  be  opened  —  the  one 
among  the  Makololo,  north  of  the  Zambesi,  under  the 
charge  of  Dr.  Livingstone,  assisted  by  another  missionary ; 
and  the  other  among  the  Matabele,  to  the  south  of  that 
river,  under  the  superintendence,  in  the  first  instance,  of 
Mr.  Moffat,  should  the  state  of  his  health  allow  of  his 
undertaking  it,  aided  by  at  least  two  additional  mission- 
aries ;  and  that,  for  the  accomplishment  of  this  enterprise, 
a  special  appeal  be  made  to  the  Society's  friends  and 
constituents  for  the  necessary  funds.'  The  severance  of 
official  connection  between  Dr.  Livingstone  and  the  Society 
prevented  him  from  undertaking  this  work  as  a  missionary  ; 
but  it  did  not  preclude  him  from  giving  counsel  and 
assistance  in  many  ways.  He  himself  left  England  on 
March  10,  1858,  for  Quilimane,  as  he  was  anxious  to  lead 
back  to  their  homes,  as  soon  as  possible,  the  men  who  had 
accompanied  him  to  the  west  coast  in  1 856.     Other  direct 


ORIGIN  OF  THE  MAKOLOLO  MISSION         619 

results  of  Livingstone's  work  were  that  members  of  Oxford 
and  Cambridge  organized  the  Universities'  Mission,  and 
sent  out  a  mission  under  the  leadership  of  Bishop  Mac- 
kenzie ;  and  that  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland  sent  out  the 
Rev.  James  Stewart  (afterwards  Dr.  Stewart,  of  Lovedale) 
to  arrange  for  another  mission  in  the  newly  explored 
territory. 

Livingstone's  loss  to  the  Makololo  Mission  was  irre- 
parable. The  men  who  entered  upon  the  work  in  his 
stead  were  capable,  self-denying,  and  enthusiastic ;  but 
they  possessed  neither  his  knowledge  of  the  country  nor 
his  unapproachable  skill  in  dealing  with  natives.  In  this 
respect  Livingstone  was  unique.  The  Directors  made 
the  best  arrangements  they  could.  The  Rev.  Holloway 
Helmore,  who  had  already  spent  seventeen  years  among 
the  Bechwanas,  was  appointed  chief  of  the  Makololo 
Mission,  with  John  Mackenzie  and  Roger  Price  as  col- 
leagues. Robert  Moffat  was  to  inaugurate  the  Matabele 
Mission  ;  and  Messrs.  William  Sykes,  T.  M.  Thomas,  and 
John  Moffat,  a  son  of  the  veteran,  were  dispatched  as  his 
colleagues.  This  company  of  workers  left  England  in  June, 
1858,  and  reached  Kuruman  December  31.  1858. 

The  Makololo  Mission  had  a  tragic  career,  little  anti- 
cipated by  Livingstone,  its  projector,  by  Helmore,  Price, 
and  Mackenzie,  who  attempted  to  establish  it,  and  by  the 
Makololo  themselves,  for  whose  benefit  it  was  undertaken. 
Helmore  and  his  family  had  returned  to  England  for  health 
reasons  in  1856,  and  in  July.  1858,  he  returned  with  his 
wife  and  four  children,  joining  his  colleagues  later  on  at 
Kuruman.  An  arrancjement  had  been  made  to  meet 
Livingstone  at  Linyanti,  and  Helmore  felt  it  to  be  of  such 
vital  importance  not  to  lose  the  benefit  of  Livingstone's 
counsel  and  support  on  the  spot,  and  in  the  presence  of 
Sekeletu  and  his  people,  that  he  pushed  forward  pre- 
parations for  the  new  mission  with  the  greatest  energy. 
Mrs.  Mackenzie's  health  necessitated  a  visit,  with  her 
husband,  to  Faurcsmith.  The  Boers,  in  the  hope  of  frus- 
trating the  enterprise,  had  sent  a  demand  that  the  mission 


620  THE  MISSION   TO   THE  MAKOLOLO 

should  not  proceed  to  the  interior  without  the  sanction 
of  the  President  of  the  Transvaal  Republic.  Supplies 
had  been  stored  at  Hope  Town,  on  the  Orange  River, 
but  not  brought  to  Kuruman  for  fear  of  the  Boers. 
Mrs.  Ashton  and  Mrs.  Sykes  died  before  the  mission 
started.  In  the  light  of  these  events  the  missionaries 
reported  home  that  it  was  improbable  that  either  mission 
could  begin  in  1859.  Helmore  reached  Kuruman  a  few 
days  after  Mackenzie's  departure,  and  called  in  the  supplies 
from  Hope  Town.  Sir  George  Gray  had  so  effectually 
remonstrated  with  the  Boers  that  all  risk  from  them  was 
averted.  Helmore,  eager  not  to  miss  Livingstone,  finally 
arranged  that  Mackenzie  should  follow  with  additional 
supplies  in  i860,  and  on  July  8,  1859,  started  for  Linyanti. 
The  party  consisted  of  himself,  his  wife,  and  four  children, 
with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Price,  and  one  child. 

Mackenzie,  in  the  absence  of  Moffat  and  Ashton,  carried 
on  the  work  of  Kuruman  station,  and  on  May  25,  1 860,  as 
arranged,  started  for  Linyanti.  He  travelled  nearly  due 
north  by  way  of  Kanye  and  Shoshong,  and,  after  crossing 
the  Zouga  River,  found,  as  Livingstone  before  him,  and  as 
his  immediate  predecessors,  Helmore  and  Price,  that  it  was 
'a  dry  and  thirsty  land.' 

Mackenzie  had  reached  Maila,  a  Makalaka  village,  some 
distance  north  of  the  Zouga,  when  a  Bushman  brought  its 
chief  to  him,  who  delivered  these  sinister  tidings  :  '  The 
Makololo  at  Linyanti  had  killed  the  headman  of  the 
missionary  party  and  his  wife,  with  a  headman  of  the 
Batlaping,  who  accompanied  the  white  man  ;  that  several 
little  children  had  died ;  that  the  surviving  white  man  and 
his  wife  had  left  Sekeletu,  and  were  on  their  way  south.' 
The  Bushman  also  said  Sekeletu  had  poisoned  the  mission- 
aries, and  kept  their  property.  This  tale  seemed  to  Mackenzie 
unbelievable.  Nevertheless,  he  determined  to  push  on  as 
soon  as  there  was  any  hope  of  being  able  to  cross  the 
waterless  district  to  the  north,  ai>d  started,  under  the 
guidance  of  Bushmen,  on  August  20,  i860.  On  August  27, 
after  a  week  of  great  suffering,  they  reached  the  Zouga  to' 


SUFFERINGS  AT  LINYANTI  621 

the  west  of  Maila.  Here  some  natives  met  him,  who  con- 
firmed the  Bushman's  story,  and  said:  *  We  left  the  surviving 
teacher  at  Lechulatebe's  town'  (Lake  Ngami).  Again 
Mackenzie  was  sceptical,  and  thought  this  only  a  ruse  on 
their  part  to  lure  him  to  visit  the  chief.  The  state  of  his 
oxen  compelled  him  to  rest  a  few  days  by  the  Zouga,  and, 
on  September  9,  while  travelling  along  the  bank  of  the 
river,  a  party  of  Batowana  met  him,  whose  headman  said  : 
'  You  refuse  to  believe  what  everybody  tells  you.  In  that 
boat,'  pointing  to  the  river,  '  sits  a  white  man  who  says  you 
are  his  dear  friend.'  The  river  was  some  distance,  but 
thither  Mackenzie  journeyed,  and  in  the  evening  met  the 
white  man,  who  proved  to  be  Price  himself,  and  who 
confirmed  the  worst  tidings  that  had  reached  Mackenzie. 

Helmore  and  Price  had  reached  Linyanti  on  Feb.  14, 
i860,  after  one  of  the  most  terrible  journeys  in  the 
missionary  annals  of  Africa.  It  may  have  been  an  error 
in  judgment  to  take  women  and  children  on  such  a  journey, 
but  there  is  nothing  more  heroic  and  pathetic  in  missionary 
story  than  the  way  in  which  these  bore  their  share  of  toil 
and  distress.  Aware  of  the  dangerous  character  of  the 
place.  Helmore,  immediately  after  his  arrival  at  Linyanti, 
urged  Sekeletu  to  allow  them  to  go  to  Shesheke.  But  he 
would  not,  and  daily  expecting  Livingstone's  arrival,  and 
at  the  same  time  not  wishing  to  offend  the  chief,  Helmore 
reluctantly  acquiesced  in  this  decision.  He  constantly 
preached  to  the  people,  and  he  and  Price  endeavoured 
to  teach  some  of  the  headmen  who  had  begun  to  learn 
to  read  during  Livingstone's  last  visit.  Within  a  fortnight 
the  whole  party,  except  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Price  and  one 
sei^vant,  were  down  with  fever. 

'  The  scene  at  the  camp  was  now  heart-rending.  Four 
sick  children,  guarded  by  a  sick  and  enfeebled  mother, 
lay  in  one  place,  their  sick  father  at  a  little  distance.  ''  The 
Bechuana  men  were  lying  about,"  as  one  of  them  afterwards 
said  in  describing  the  scene  to  me.  "  like  logs  of  wood  " — 
one  here  and  another  there,  rolled  in  their  blanket  or 
kaross,  utterly  prostrated  by  fever,  unable  to  help  them- 


622  THE  MISSION   TO   THE  MAKOLOLO 

selves,  and  some  of  them  in  a  deep  stupor.  The  only  ray 
of  liope  in  the  picture  was  that  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Price,  although 
suffering  severely,  were  never  both  ill  at  once.  Either  the 
one  or  the  other  was  able  to  wait  upon  the  sick  and  the 
helpless.  Mr.  Price  for  some  time  cooked  food  for  the 
whole  party,  servants  included.  On  March  2,  just  seventeen 
days  after  their  arrival,  the  first  death  took  place.  It  was 
not  a  European  who  was  first  carried  away  by  the  deadly 
influences  by  which  all  were  surrounded,  not  even  one  of 
the  tender  children,  but  Malatsi,  the  tallest  and  perhaps 
the  strongest  of  the  Bechuana  servants,  and  who  had  been 
driver  of  Mr.  Price's  waggon.  Five  days  after  this,  as 
Mr.  Price  was  going  his  rounds  among  his  helpless  and 
often  unconscious  companions,  he  found,  on  touching 
a  little  face  among  the  four  children,  beside  whom 
Mrs.  Helmore  lay,  that  the  cold  hand  of  death  had  been 
there  before  him.  It  was  the  face  of  little  Henry  Helmore — 
the  first  of  the  children  who  died.  Mr.  Price  removed  the 
dead  from  among  the  living,  and  placed  the  little  body  in 
the  adjoining  tent.  Mr.  Price's  infant  daughter,  Eliza,  died 
on  the  9th  in  the  arms  of  her  mother,  while  Mr.  Price  lay  in 
a  wet  sheet,  endeavouring  to  get  rid  of  an  attack  of  fever. 
On  the  nth,  Selina  Helmore  followed  her  brother;  and 
next  day  the  guardian  mother,  wasted  by  disease  and 
privation,  unable  any  longer  to  smooth  the  pillow  or  cool 
the  parched  lips  of  her  children,  was  released  from  her  long 
watching  ;  and  heaven,  sweet  to  all  who  enter  it,  was  surely 
heaven  twice  told  to  Anne  Helmore.  She  had  striven  long 
and  hard  ;  she  could  strive  no  more^' 

Tabe,  a  Bechwana  teacher,  died  on  March  11  ;  Setloke, 
anotlier  Christian  Bechwana,  on  March  19;  Helmore  on 
April  21.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Price,  childless  and  weakened 
by  repeated  attacks  of  fever,  prepared  to  return,  but  when 
ready  to  start  were  deprived  of  nearly  all  the  mission 
property  by  Sekeletu.  On  the  return,  prior  to  the 
meeting  with  Mackenzie,  Mrs.  Price  died.  Lechulatebe, 
the    chief    of   Lake    Ngami,   showed    great    kindness   to 

'    7>«  Years  North  of  (he  Orange  River,  pp.  188,  189. 


DESTRUCTION  OF  THE  MAKOLOLO  623 

I\Ir.  Price  and  the  two  orphan  children  of  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Helmore.  Price's  oxen  had  been  bitten  by  the  tsetse  fly, 
and  were  all  doomed.  He  had  nothing  w^herewith  to  buy 
more,  and  so  was  compelled  to  wait  at  the  lake  until  relief 
came.  Upon  Mackenzie's  arrival  discussion  of  plans 
resulted  in  what  was  probably  the  wisest  action — return  to 
Kuruman.  This  haven  of  rest  was  reached  on  February  14. 
1861,  one  year  after  the  arrival  at  Linyanti. 

The  tragic  fate  of  the  Makololo  put  an  end  to  all  need 
for  mission-work  among  them.  In  1863  Sekeletu  died. 
Struggles  for  the  chieftainship  followed,  in  which  the 
Makololo  became  weakened.  The  Barotse  and  other 
tribes  whom  they  had  subjugated  rose  against  them,  and 
practically  annihilated  their  despotic  masters. 

'  Thus,'  writes  Mackenzie,  *  perished  the  Makololo  from 
among  the  number  of  South  African  tribes.  No  one  can 
put  his  finger  on  the  map  of  Africa  and  say,  Here  dwell 
the  Makololo.  And  yet  this  is  the  mighty  people  who 
more  than  forty  years  ago  spread  dismay  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Kuruman — who  in  their  northward  journey 
conquered  the  Bangwaketse.  the  Bakwena,  and  other  tribes 
in  that  region — who  drove  the  Bamangwato  before  them 
like  antelopes  before  the  lion — whose  track  can  be  marked 
by  the  usual  signs  of  savage  conquest :  the  wasted  towns, 
the  devastated  country,  the  silent  grief  of  the  widowed  and 
orphaned  captives.  By  the  measure  which  they  had  meted 
out  to  others,  was  it  now  measured  to  them  again.  They 
had  taken  the  sword  and  lived  by  it ;  by  the  sword  they 
now  perished.  As  long  as  the  genius  and  resources  of 
Sebetuane  presided  over  their  councils,  prosperity  attended 
their  footsteps.  This  chief  knew  how  to  secure  the  affec- 
tions of  his  vassals  in  peace,  as  well  as  to  overcome  his 
enemies  in  war.  But  Sebetuane  had  no  successor.  Seke- 
letu was  a  weakling  ;  and  pride,  presumption,  and  effeminacy 
characterized  the  children  of  Sebetuane's  warriors  ^' 

^    Ten  Years  North  of  the  Orange  River,  p.  247. 


CHAPTER    XXV 

THE   MATABELE    MISSION 

The  Matabele  were  originally  a  Zulu  tribe  which  fled 
from  Zukiland,  under  the  leadership  of  Mosilikatse,  who 
had  enraged  his  chieftain  Tshaka,  and  had  by  him  been 
condemned  to  death.  They  first  settled  on  the  banks 
of  the  Marico  River,  and  here,  in  1^36,  Moffat  paid 
them  his  first  visit.  Hence  they  were  driven  northwards 
by  the  Transvaal  Boers,  and  finally  settled  in  their  present 
home.  They  retained  to  the  full  all  the  Zulu  fierceness  of 
disposition  and  love  of  war,  bloodshed,  and  plunder.  The 
chief  and  most  of  the  headmen  remained  Zulus  in  blood, 
but  the  tribe  gradually  incorporated  remnants  of  others 
by  impressing  youths  into  its  military  service.  Moffat 
visited  Mosilikatse  in  1855  and  in  1857. 

On  August  J,  1859,  Robert  Moffat,  with  Mr.  Sykes,  left 
Kuruman  on  a  journey  to  Mosilikatse  with  the  purpose 
of  founding  a  Christian  mission  in  Matabeleland.  At 
Liteyana,  then  Sechele's  head  quarters,  he  added  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Thomas  to  his  company.and  proceeded  to  Mosilikatse's 
town.  They  arrived  on  October  28,  and  although  Moffat 
was  welcomed  by  his  old  friend,  the  king  did  not  seem  so 
eager  for  the  mission  as  he  had  appeared  in  former  years. 

After  considerable  hesitancy  and  negotiation  on  the  part 
of  Mosilikatse,  on  December  23  the  mission  party  proceeded 
to  the  valley  of  Inyati,  which  the  chief  had  assigned  to 
them,  and  there  the  first  mission  centre  among  the  cruel 


OCCUPATION  OF  INYATI  625 

and  warlike  Matabele  was  established.  Moffat  remained 
with  the  young  missionaries  until  June,  and  returned  to 
Kuruman  on  August  21,  i860.  The  missionaries  found 
the  work  very  difficult,  and  the  prospect  uninspiring.  The 
iron  military  discipline  enforced,  and  the  sanguinary  and 
warlike  character  of  the  Matabele,  were  persistent  and 
powerful  foes  both  to  Christian  teaching  and  to  civiliza- 
tion. The  missionaries  were  allowed  to  preach  by  means 
of  interpreters  supplied  by  the  chief  in  the  villages  ;  but 
not  to  do  much  in  the  way  of  teaching.  In  five  years  little 
had  been  accomplished  that  could  be  measured  by  evident 
results.  Congregations  in  1864  numbered  only  from  ten 
to  thirty.  The  Gospel  inculcated  peace,  and  enjoined 
monogamy  ;  both  were  abhorrent  to  the  Matabele  chiefs. 

Although  mission  stations  have  been  steadily  occupied 
in  Matabeleland.  and  both  evangelistic  and  educational 
work  attempted  by  devoted  men  and  women  since  1859, 
very  little  outward  and  tangible  success  has  yet  been 
achieved.  Those  who  gauge  missionary  success  by  the 
number  of  tribes  converted,  of  converts  enrolled,  of  schools 
opened,  of  Bibles  sold,  will  find  this  field  a  very  barren 
spot.  But  those  who  believe  in  the  universal  applicability 
of  the  Gospel  to  the  needs  of  men,  that  the  most  forbidding 
fields,  no  less  than  the  more  attractive,  need  to  be  culti- 
vated, and  above  all  that  the  Gospel  must  be  taken  to 
*  every  creature,'  will  study  the  Matabele  Mission  with 
interest  and  profit.  The  savage  nature  of  the  Matabele. 
their  tribal  system,  superstitions,  military  code,  polygamy, 
and  haughty  arrogance,  the  result  of  long  years  of  most 
successful  warfare  and  bloodshed,  rendered  them  in  all 
South  Africa  least  likely  to  accept  readily  the  Gospel. 

Here  is  an  account  from  the  pen  of  Mr.  Thomas  of  the 
missionaries'  early  experiences  at  Inyati.  It  was  written 
five  years  after  the  work  began. 

'  For  some  months  after  we  arrived  we  were  unable  to 
do  anything  more  than  look  about  and  endeavour  to 
catch  some  words  of,  as  we  thought,  the  most  difficult 
and  strange   language.      After  a   good    deal    of  entreaty, 

1.  b  s 


626  THE  MATABELE   MISSION 

however,  the  king  sent  for  two  interpreters  through  whom 
we  were  able  to  address  the  natives  every  Sabbath  ;  but 
beine  convinced  that  what  we  said  did  not  improve  by 
passing  tlirough  a  filter,  we  set  to  work  to  acquire  the 
Setabele,  beginning  as  early  as  possible  to  talk  with  them 
in  their  own  tongue.  Ever  since  that  time  two  services, 
one  in  Setabele  and  another  in  Sechuana,  have  been  held 
at  Inyati  on  the  Lord's  Day,  and  during  the  week  other 
villages  have  been  and  still  are  visited.  But  ere  we  can 
reasonably  expect  any  success  a  change  must  take  place 
in  the  country ;  a  change  which  would  replace  the  restless- 
ness, want  of  confidence  in  one  another,  and  that  love  of 
war  which  prevail  throughout  the  land.  To  bring  about 
such  a  change  at  an  early  date  many  more  missionaries 
should  be  sent,  and  many  more  stations  established. 
Looking  back  upon  our  arrival  at  Inyati,  and  comparing 
our  position  then  and  now,  we  cannot  but  thank  God  and 
take  courage.  At  first  we  could  not  move  from  our 
station  without  the  king's  permission,  now  we  can  go 
wherever  we  like.  Then,  we  could  not  tell  the  people 
about  the  Saviour,  unless  the  king  called  them  together 
at  his  own  kraal.  Now,  we  can  preach  where,  when,  and 
to  whom  we  will.  Then,  if  any  one  put  on  a  shirt  he  was 
laughed  to  scorn,  but  now  hundreds  have  clothes,  and  wear 
them  even  in  the  presence  of  the  king.  Then,  we  were 
annoyed  and  insulted  many  times  daily  ;  we  were  suspected 
as  enemies.  Now,  we  are  treated  with  respect  and  con- 
fidence by  all ;  while  we  have  many  faithful  friends.  Then, 
the  doctrines  taught  being  so  new,  and  the  want  of  means 
whereby  to  convey  thoughts  to  the  native  mind  so  great, 
it  was  impossible  to  do  much.  Now,  hundreds  having  so 
often  heard  the  Gospel  preached  in  their  own  language, 
and  two  small  books  having  been  printed  in  the  same 
language,  wc  may  expect  much  more  to  be  done.' 

Mr.  Wm.  Sykes  and  Mr.  T.  M.  Thomas  carried  on  the 
mission  work  begun  at  Inyati  in  1859.  The  former,  with 
the  exception  of  occasional  absence  due  either  to  ill-health 
or  furlough,  spent  the  whole  of  his  missionary  life  there, 


ACCESSION  OF  LOBENGULA  627 

dying  at  Inyati  on  July  22,  1887.  Mr.  Thomas  laboured 
there  until  1870,  in  which  year  he  visited  England,  his 
connection  with  the  Society  ceasing  in  1872. 

Mosilikatse  died  on  September  6,  1868,  as  he  had  lived, 
a  savage  Zulu  chief.  Mr.  Sykes  visited  him  the  preceding 
June,  found  him  very  changed  and  ill,  and  stated  :  *  The 
only  words  which  seemed  to  create  any  interest  in  his  mind 
was  a  message  from  Robert  Moffat  that  he  was  still  praying 
for  him  and  his  people.'  The  old  chieftain  twenty  years 
before  had  appointed  a  successor,  one  of  his  sons,  named 
Kulumane,  who,  in  accordance  with  Zulu  custom,  had  then 
been  sent  away  and  since  lost  sight  of.  The  search  for 
the  lawful  successor  proved  unsuccessful,  and  Lobengula, 
another  son  of  the  dead  warrior,  succeeded  to  his  authority. 
But  not  without  a  struggle  with  an  important  chief  named 
Umbego,  who  was  finally  slain  in  battle  with  250  of  his 
followers.  This  happened  in  1869,  the  year  in  which,  in 
anticipation  of  Mr.  Thomas'  visit  to  England,  Mr.  J.  B. 
Thomson  was  sent  out  to  reinforce  the  mission.  He 
reached  Lobengula's  kraal  on  April  23,  1869.  '  The  king,' 
he  wrote,  *  is  a  man  about  thirty  years  old,  very  stout,  and 
about  five  feet  nine.  He  has  a  very  good-natured  face, 
and  is  very  affable,  and  fond  of  a  joke.  He  likes  Europeans, 
and  has  betaken  himself  very  much  to  their  customs.  He 
certainly  promises  to  be  a  good  king.'  Mr.  Thomson's 
medical  know^ledge  enabled  him  to  be  of  much  service  to 
the  wounded  in  the  battle  referred  to  above,  which  was 
fought  very  soon  after  he  reached  Inyati.  Towards  the 
close  of  1870,  after  considerable  hesitancy,  due  to  his  in- 
ability to  settle  in  his  own  mind  whether  the  residence 
of  missionaries  in  his  country  was  an  advantage  or  a  dis- 
advantage, Lobengula  granted  to  Mr.  Thomson  the  valley, 
forty  or  fifty  miles  south  of  Inyati,  known  since  as  Hope 
P'ountain.  '  I  give  your  Society  leave,'  said  Lobengula,  'to 
occupy  that  valley  as  a  mission  station  as  long  as  they  like 
under  me  as  chief,  and  that  no  trader  is  to  build  on  it.' 

On  March  25,  1873,  Mr.  Thomson,  in  referring  to  the 
progress  made,  stated  :  — 

s  s  2 


628  THE  MATABELE  MISSION 

'  The  crreatest  hindrance  of  all  to  our  work  here  is  to  be 
found  in  the  constitution  and  polity  of  the  tribe.  The 
Gospel  goes  dead  against  everything  which  distinguishes 
them  as  the  Amantabele  Tribe — (i)  It  destroys  all  despotic 
power,  makes  men  intelligent,  thinking,  and  responsible 
beings,  who  seek  for  judgment  and  justice.  It  takes  from 
the  king  all  Divine  power  attributed  to  him,  and  attributes 
it  to  God  alone.  (2)  It  destroys  entirely  their  military 
standing,  whose  sole  object  is  bloodshed  and  death,  to 
devour  and  live  on  other  tribes.  Every  year  they  send 
marauding  parties  to  the  weaker  tribes^  to  kill  the  aged 
and  very  little  children,  and  to  take  captive  all  the  young 
and  middle-aged  as  well  as  all  their  cattle  and  property. 
(3)  It  destroys  all  polygamy,  and  also  that  honoured  and 
much  to  be  dreaded  enemy  of  all  life  and  liberty — I  mean 
witchcraft.  These  are  the  monuments  of  this  nation,  in 
which  they  glory.  These  are  not  matters  of  faith,  but  of 
sight  and  touch,  and  dearer  to  them  than  their  life's  blood. 
To  receive  the  Gospel  is  to  give  them  all  up.  This  the 
people  know,  and  especially  the  king.  And  I  assure 
you  they  are  not  anxious  for  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  to 
the  entire  destruction  of  all  they  hold  so  dear  and  profit- 
able to  them.  Nor  yet  are  they  willing  to  give  up  the 
Word  of  God,  and  drive  its  teachers  from  among  them, 
but  put  them  off  from  time  to  time  with  fair  promises, 
which  to  a  great  extent  are  meaningless.' 

During  the  earlier  years,  though  in  a  somewhat  anoma- 
lous position,  Mr.  J.  S.  Moffat  co-operated  in  the  work  at 
Inyati.  He  left  in  1865.  In  1863  John  Mackenzie  visited 
Inyati,  but  finally  decided  not  to  take  up  work  in  Matabele- 
land.  In  December,  1875,  Mr.  C.  D.  Helm  reached  Hope 
Fountain,  at  which  station,  with  an  absence  on  furlough 
(1886  to  1888),  he  was  still  labouring  in  1895.  In  1877  Mr. 
Thomson  was  summoned  home  by  the  Directors  to  take 
part  in  the  new  Central  African  Mission.  In  the  same  year 
Mr.  W.  A.  Elliott  reached  Inyati,  and  carried  on  mission 
work  there  until  1886,  and  again  from  1888  to  1892.  In 
1894  he  resigned  his  connection  with  the  Society.     David 


LATER    WORKERS  IN   THE  MISSION  629 

Carnegie  joined  the  Hope  Fountain  Mission  in  1882,  and 
was  there  when  the  war  with  Lobengula  broke  out,  in  which 
Buluwayo  was  captured  and  Hope  Fountain  destroyed. 
Mr.  Bowen  Rees  was  appointed  to  Inyati  in  1887. 

During  all  these  years,  with  the  changes  in  the  staff 
which  they  brought,  Lobengula  remained  friendly  towards 
the  missionaries.  But  he  never  for  a  moment  exhibited 
any  tendency  towards  the  acceptance  of  Christian  truth 
himself,  or  towards  the  relaxation  of  his  iron  hold  upon  his 
warriors.  The  political  horizon  became  clouded.  It  became 
known  that  gold  was  plentiful  in  his  territory.  The  British 
South  African  Company  was  formed,  an  organization  whose 
warmest  friends  have  never  credited  it  with  any  desire  to 
encourage  native  rights  or  to  further  native  welfare.  In 
their  decennial  review  of  work  in  1891,  the  workers  in  this 
hard  field  had  still  but  little  to  encourage  them.  The 
Report  for  that  year  runs : — 

'  The  great  migration  into  Mashonaland  of  European 
miners  and  others,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Chartered 
Company  of  British  South  ^Africa,  was  successfully  accom- 
plished without  opposition  from  the  Matabele,  and  therefore 
without  bloodshed.  So  critical,  however,  did  the  situation 
appear  at  one  time,  that  the  missionaries,  acting  on  the 
advice  of  IMajor  Maxwell,  and  with  the  concurrence  of  the 
chief,  Lobengula,  retired  for  several  weeks  to  Palapye 
with  their  families.  The  danger  appears  to  have  entirely 
passed  away,  and  the  routine  of  work  has  been  resumed. 
Mr.  Carnegie  notes  that  the  customs  and  the  characters  of 
the  people  are  unchanged,  notwithstanding  the  political 
changes.  Accusations  of  witchcraft,  and  cruel  murders  of 
men,  women,  and  children  in  connection  with  these  accusa- 
tions, have  been  very  frequent,  and  the  people  are  kept 
in  constant  fear,  not  knowing  who  may  be  the  next 
victim. 

'  "  One  thing,  however,  comforts  me,"  writes  Mr.  Carnegie, 
**and  that  is  the  firm  stand  which  our  two  converts  have 
maintained  during  the  year.  The  truth  is  silently  working, 
and    the    utter  foolishness  of  heathenism    is    being    more 


630  THE  MATABELE  MISSION 

exposed  to  all  who  have  eyes  to  see.  While,  on  the 
one  hand,  there  is  much  to  shock  and  disgust  you  in 
getting  to  know  more  of  the  hidden  cruelties  of  Matabele 
heathenism,  on  the  other,  I  feel  that  I  have  a  greater  hold  on 
the  people  to  influence  them  for  good.  The  great  onward 
tide  of  Christianity  and  civilization  is  moving  into  the  very 
heart  of  the  country,  which,  let  us  pray,  may  soon  break 
up  for  ever  the  evil  customs  and  cruel  beliefs  of  this  dark 
deluded  tribe." 

'  The  Rev.  W.  A.  Elliott  wrote :  "  What  can  I  report  of 
mission-work  from  1881  to  1890?  We  have  preached  and 
taught,  pleaded,  denounced,  attended  the  sick,  helped  the 
troubled,  prayed,  rejoiced,  mourned,  and  waited.  We 
struggled  on  with  the  daily  school  ;  we  tried  it  in  the  early 
morning,  and  at  midday,  till  it  finally  died  of  starvation. 
We  have  had  short  services  with  those  who  came  for  medi- 
cine or  to  sell.  We  have  had  straight,  earnest  talks  with 
passers-by.  We  have  preached  to  them  on  Sundays,  here 
and  at  Umsindo's,  and  we  have  gone  to  the  latter  station 
during  the  week.  At  one  time  our  services  have  been 
attended  to  overflowing,  at  another  time  hardly  a  single 
outsider  has  been  present.  I  cannot  say  (Umfogazana, 
perhaps,  excepted)  that  the  Word  of  God  has  ever  been 
more  attractive  to  our  people  than  a  feast  of  beef  and  beer. 
At  times  men  have  seemed  impressed,  anxious,  but  the 
seed  has  fallen  on  the  path,  or  among  stones,  and  has 
perished.  Do  not  think  that  any  of  them  'pant  after 
the  water-brooks.'  That  is  an  almost  unknown  experience 
with  us." ' 

In  1894  the  inevitable  conflict  between  the  British  South 
African  Company  and  Lobengula  broke  out.  It  ended  in 
the  death  of  the  chief,  the  capture  of  Buluwayo,  and  the 
destruction  of  the  old  Matabele  despotism.  The  stations 
at  both  Inyati  and  Hope  Fountain  were  destroyed  ;  but 
on  the  termination  of  the  struggle  the  missionaries,  who 
had  been  compelled  to  leave  the  country,  at  once  returned. 
It  was  both  discouraging  and  trying  to  faith  that  just  when 
the  country  in  which  the  Society  had  been  sowing  the  seed 


CONQUEST  OF  MATABELELAXD  631 

for  more  than  thirty  years  was  opened  freely  to  Christian 
effort,  lack  of  funds  prevented  a  Matabele  forward 
movement.  The  Report  for  1895  sets  clearly  forth  the 
new  order  of  affairs  in  the  land  of  Mosilikatse  and 
Lobengula  : — 

'Much  criticism  has  been  passed  on  the  Chartered 
Company  for  their  seizure  of  Matabeleland,  but  apparently 
their  treatment  of  the  people  is  not  open  to  complaint. 
For  the  first  time  the  natives  are  having  a  taste  of  real 
freedom.  They  are  free  to  wear  European  clothing  instead 
of  skins,  free  to  work  and  to  hold  the  proceeds  of  their 
labour,  free  to  attend  Christian  worship  and  to  send  their 
children  to  school.  Moreover,  as  there  has  been  distress 
in  consequence  of  the  people  being  unable  to  sow  corn 
during  the  war,  arrangements  have  been  made  by  which 
they  can  purchase  seed,  corn,  and  food  at  reasonable  rates 
through  the  magistrate.  There  are,  of  course,  not  a  few 
causes  of  friction  and  trouble.  Many  of  the  white  men 
are  adventurers  without  any  moral  principle,  and  set  a  very 
bad  example  by  their  behaviour.  The  natives  are  not 
accustomed  to  steady  work,  and  are  not  in  haste  to  respond 
to  appeals  for  labourers.  At  first  they  seemed  to  think 
the  white  men  were  not  going  to  remain,  and  were  afraid 
that  the  old  rule  might  be  resumed.  As  soon  as  they 
discovered  there  was  no  chance  of  this,  they  began  to  adapt 
themselves  to  new  conditions,  and  many  of  them  bought 
ploughs  and  some  bought  waggons.  At  both  the  stations 
they  now  come  freely  to  the  services.' 

In  1H95  a  new  church  was  built  at  Inyati,  and  a  remark- 
able occurrence  was  the  gift  by  natives  to  the  value  of 
£\i  lis.,  'the  first  collection  ever  made  in  our  native 
church  in  Matabeleland.'  Writing  at  the  same  period, 
the  missionaries  at  Hope  Fountain  say  :  *  Although  we 
cannot  as  yet  speak  of  any  new  converts,  wc  have  every 
reason  to  hope  that  the  day  is  not  far  distant  when  wc 
shall  begin  to  see  the  fruit  of  the  many  years'  labour  in 
this  land.' 


CHAPTER    XXVI 

THE   BECHWANA   MISSION:     1860-1895 

1'he  most  successful  development  of  Christian  influence 
during  the  century,  from  Kuruman  as  a  centre,  has  been 
the  mission  to  the  numerous  and  powerful  Bechwana 
tribes,  whose  towns  and  villages  stretch  from  Taung  to 
Phalapye.  The  opportunities  and  the  difficulties  of  this 
region  during  the  last  forty  years  are  admirably  sketched  in 
the  Report  for  1885  : — 

'  Bechvvanaland  is  a  tract  of  country  of  enormous  area, 
and  with  a  very  sparse  population.  Village  life,  or  any 
real  and  permanent  occupation  of  the  country  as  a  whole 
by  its  inhabitants,  is  unknown.  The  people  are  gathered 
in  towns  of  5,oco  to  i2,coo  inhabitants,  each  tribe  being 
thus  gathered  in  a  centre  in  that  portion  of  the  land  which 
is  regarded  as  belonging  to  it ;  and  for  protection  from 
enemies  these  towns  are  usually  either  at  the  base  of  one 
of  the  great  flat-topped  hills  which  are  a  conspicuous 
feature  in  the  country,  or  they  are  built  on  the  top  of  the 
hill.  In  the  immediate  neighbourhood  of  the  town  are 
the  gardens  and  fields  which  provide  the  people  with  the 
necessary  supplies  of  native  corn  and  pumpkins;  and 
around  each  town  is  a  district  more  or  less  extended,  in 
which  the  people  have  their  cattle  posts,  some  of  those 
m  the  larger  tribes  being  many  miles  from  the  centre. 

'The  eastern  boundary  of  Bechwanaland  is  defined  by 
the  limits  of  the  Orange  Free  State  and   the  Transvaal 


BECHWANALAND  633 

Republic.  On  the  west,  the  country  is  of  undefined  ex- 
tent, stretching  into  the  great  Kalahari  desert.  The  natural 
supplies  of  water  seem  chiefly  to  be  found  in  the  south 
and  east  of  Bechwanaland.  The  rainfall  is  never  very 
abundant ;  it  is  always  fitful  and  sometimes  it  is  very 
long  delayed. 

'  The  mission  stations  of  the  Society  are  at  great 
distances  from  each  other.  Barkly,  the  southernmost,  is 
on  the  Vaal  River,  130  miles  south-east  of  Kuruman  ; 
Taung  is  ico  miles  due  east  of  Kuruman  ;  Kanye  is  204 
miles  north  and  a  little  to  the  east  of  Kuruman ;  Molepolole 
is  60  miles  north  of  Kanye  ;  and  Shoshong  is  130  miles 
north  of  Molepolole.  Great  as  these  distances  are,  it  has 
not  been  advisable  to  establish  European  missionaries  at 
any  point  in  the  intervening  space,  as  the  present  stations 
represent  the  successive  tribal  centres.  Such  being  the 
distances  by  which  the  missionaries  are  separated  from 
each  other,  intercourse  between  them  becomes  very  infre- 
quent, and  from  the  physical  conditions  of  the  country, 
and  the  habits  of  the  people,  itineration  in  the  sense  known 
in  India  is  scarcely  possible. 

'  There  are  no  self-interests  at  work  in  Bechwanaland — 
such  as  have  influenced  Cape  Colony,  and  much  more 
India — to  make  education  valued  by  the  people.  To  the 
Christian  education  is  associated  with  means  of  grace  ;  to 
others  it  is  only  an  accomplishment,  regarded  by  most 
heathen  as  useless,  or  perhaps  prejudicial.  The  con- 
sequence is  that  education  in  Bechwanaland  is  very  partial 
and  very  elementary.  If  a  man  or  woman  can  read  the 
Bible,  their  aspirations  in  this  direction  are  satisfied. 

'  The  tribal  relations  of  the  people  have  been  a  serious 
hindrance  to  their  material  and  spiritual  advancement. 
The  chiefs  are  autocrats,  who  regard  the  people  and  the 
country  as  belonging  to  them,  and  who  are  exceedingly 
jealous  of  any  manifestation  of  exceptional  powers,  or  of 
the  acquisition  of  exceptional  wealth,  by  any  of  their  sub- 
jects. With  the  marked  exception  of  Khame,  they  retain 
their  hold  upon  their   people  by  encouraging  in  secret — 


634  THE  BECHWANA   MISSION:   1S60-1S95 

even  when  they  do  not  outwardly  permit  them — every  old 
corrupt  custom,  and  every  heathen  superstition.' 

The  first  stations  in  Bechwanaland  were  established  at 
Likhatlong  and  Borigelong,  the  districts  around  being 
evangelized  from  these  centres.  Kolobeng  has  been 
referred  to  in  Chapter  XXIII.  The  stations  which  have 
been  permanently  occupied,  taking  them  in  chronological 
order,  are  :  Shoshong  (icS62),  abandoned  in  1889  for 
Phalapye;  Molepolole(i866);  Taung(i868);  Kanye(i87i), 
and  Barkly  (1876).  Here,  as  elsewhere,  if  it  were  possible 
to  tell  the  story  of  each  station  fully,  much  could  be  said 
of  each  group  of  teachers  and  taught  that  would  deepen 
faith,  increase  zeal,  and  stir  the  heart. 

Shoshong,  400  miles  north  of  Kuruman,  the  centre  of 
the  Bamangvvato  tribe,  was  the  scene  for  a  time  of 
Livingstone's  labours,  and  was  repeatedly  visited  by  Moffat. 
Sechele,  the  chief,  failing  in  his  efforts  to  get  missionaries 
from  the  Society,  had  invited  to  reside  with  him  some 
missionaries  of  the  Hermannsburg  Society.  But  in  May, 
1862,  under  the  impression  that  these  Lutheran  missionaries 
had  abandoned  the  station,  the  Rev.  J.  Mackenzie  was 
appointed  to  take  charge  of  the  work.  He  reached 
Shoshong  in  June.  Mr.  Roger  Price  was  there  at  the  time. 
The  project  of  a  mission  to  the  Makololo  had  not  yet  been 
shattered  by  the  tidings  of  the  destruction  of  that  tribe. 
The  chief  of  the  Bamangwato  in  1862  was  Sekhome.  The 
tribe  were  great  hunters.  They  were  exposed  on  the 
north-east  to  attacks  from  tlie  Matabele.  They  in  their 
turn  exercised  control  over  several  subject  tribes  of 
Makalaka.  As  the  German  missionaries  still  contemplated 
work  in  that  region,  for  a  time  Mackenzie  had  two 
colleagues,  Mr.  Price,  and  Mr.  Shulenbourg,  one  of  the 
Lutheran  missionaries  who  had  returned.  But  in  1863 
both  of  these  left.  A  raid  upon  the  town  and  the  tribe 
about  this  time  was  made  by  a  strong  party  of  the 
Matabele,  during  which  many  of  the  people,  together  with 
Mr.  Mackenzie  and  his  family,  endured  serious  hardships. 
The  Matabele  were  repulsed  by  the  Bamangwato,  chiefly 


CONVERSION  OF  KHAME  635 

owing  to  the  skill,  courage,  and  generalship  of  the 
since  famous  chief  Khame,  Sekhome's  son.  Soon  after 
Mackenzie's  settlement  at  Shoshong  trouble  began  because 
Sekhome's  sons  embraced  Christianitv\  while  the  chief  him- 
self  adhered  to  heathen  practices  and  polity.  This  led  in 
1866  to  civil  war.  Khame  and  his  brother  Khamane  left 
Shoshong  rather  than  renounce  Christianity.  The  bulk  of 
the  people  sympathized  with  them.  Ultimately  Sekhome 
recalled  Macheng,  his  own  brother,  a  step  which  led  to  his 
own  expulsion,  and  for  a  time  Macheng  was  head  chief. 
But  Khame's  influence  with  the  people  steadily  grew,  and 
at  this  time  his  brother  Khamane  heartily  supported  him. 
In  ih'68  a  new  chapel  was  opened  at  Shoshong.  Macheng, 
like  Sekhome,  favoured  heathenism,  and  his  intrigues  led 
finally  to  the  proposal  that  he  should  be  banished,  and 
Sekhome  recalled.  Sekhome  refused  to  return,  and  Khame, 
by  the  aid  of  Sebele,  Sechele's  eldest  son,  drove  away 
Macheng,  and  in  1872  became  chief  of  the  tribe  by  the 
election  of  the  headmen.  His  Christian  faith  was  soon 
put  to  the  test.  It  was  September,  the  season  when  the 
people  began  to  dig  their  gardens.  This  was  always  pre- 
ceded by  heathen  ceremonies.  He  consulted  Mr.  Mackenzie 
and  his  colleague,  ]\Ir.  J.  U.  Hepburn,  who  had  reached 
Shoshong  in  1871.  Mr.  Mackenzie  thus  describes  Khame's 
action  on  this  crucial  occasion  : — 

'  Khame  assembled  the  Bamangwato  in  the  public  court- 
yard on  Sunday  morning.  The  proceedings  were  com- 
menced by  the  young  chief  in  a  short  speech,  in  which  he 
emphatically  announced  his  unwavering  determination  to 
adhere  to  Christianity.  He  did  not  prohibit  heathen 
ceremonies ;  but  they  must  not  be  performed  in  the  kotla  ; 
and,  as  chief,  he  would  contribute  nothing  towards  them. 
The  service  in  which  the  missionary  was  about  to  engage 
was  his  "  letsemma  " ;  after  it,  they  might  all  dig  when 
they  pleased.  Whoever  wished  to  have  his  seed  charmed, 
or  his  garden  charmed,  could  do  so  at  his  own  expense  ; 
but  he  himself  had  no  such  custom  now,  any  more  than  in 
former  years.     Khame's  speech,  which  was   a  very  clear 


636  THE  BECHWANA   MISSION:  1SG0-1S95 

one,  was  well  received  by  the  people ;  and  I  felt,  when  he  sat 
down,  that  he  was  farther  from  heathenism  in  his  own 
estimation,  and  in  the  minds  of  the  people,  than  before  he 
made  it  \' 

Notwithstanding  this  good  beginning,  affairs  did  not  go 
smoothly  with  Khame.  He  refused  to  '  make  rain '  with 
heathen  ceremonies,  and  his  brother  Khamane,  having  partly 
relapsed  into  heathenism,  became  hostile  to  him.  Early  in 
i(S73  Khame  recalled  his  father  to  Shoshong,  probably  from 
kindly  filial  feelings.  But  the  inveterate  old  heathen  at 
once  sided  with  Khamane  and  stirred  up  strife.  Khame, 
with  great  prudence,  withdrew  from  Shoshong  to  Serue, 
a  cattle  post  not  far  away.  So  great  was  his  personal 
influence  that  the  bulk  of  the  young  men  of  the  tribe 
followed  him.  Though  invited  to  return  to  Shoshong, 
Khame  refused,  and  went  for  a  time  to  live  on  the  river 
Zouga.  Hostilities  broke  out  because  both  Sekhome  and 
Khamane  stole  Khame's  cattle  and  people,  and  finally, 
early  in  1875,  Khame  drove  them  both  out  of  Shoshong, 
and  firmly  re-established  his  power  there,  and  thus  '  ushered 
in  the  dawn  of  a  brighter  day,  not  only  for  his  own  people, 
but  also  for  the  missionaries  and  their  work.' 

In  1877  Mr.  Hepburn,  with  his  wife  and  three  children, 
and  two  native  teachers,  Khukwe  and  Diphukwe,  visited 
Lake  Ngami.  He  remained  there  several  months,  the 
young  chief  Moremi  expressing  a  desire  for  teachers.  The 
next  year  he  sent  the  two  native  teachers  to  begin  evange- 
listic work  there. 

For  the  next  ten  years  Khame's  work  was  very  uphill 
and  difficult,  but  slowly  and  steadily  he  accomplished  his 
beneficent  will  in  Shoshong.  '  When  I  was  still  a  lad,'  said 
Khame  one  day  to  Mr.  Hepburn,  'I  used  to  think  how 
I  would  govern  my  town,  and  what  kind  of  a  kingdom  it 
should  be.'  And  under  the  power  of  that  Gospel,  brought 
to  his  family  by  the  workers  of  the  Society,  he  made  it  one 
of  the  model  towns  of  South  Africa.  Mr.  Hepburn  thus 
describes  his  work  and  influence  as  chief:— 

'   Chronicle,  1873,  p.  81. 


KHAME'S  GREAT  WORK  637 

'  For  a  long  time  Khame's  position  was  one  of  conflict. 
He  had  the  old  heathen  element  against  him  again.  He 
had  to  fight  against  a  class  of  traders  who,  as  he  said, 
"  trod  his  laws  under  their  feet  because  he  was  a  black 
man."  Finally,  he  had  to  hold  his  own  against  the  trek- 
Boers  who  came  up  out  of  the  Transvaal,  and  at  one  time 
threatened  to  take  possession  of  his  country.  Then  there 
have  been  the  Matabele — who  were  a  standing  menace — and 
a  most  severe  famine,  to  increase  the  burden  of  his  govern- 
ment of  the  tribe.  I  know  no  other  Interior  chief  who  has 
even  attempted  the  half  that  Khame  has  arcomplished  in  the 
advancing  of  his  people  towards  the  goal  of  civilization. 
He  has  not  only  stopped  the  introduction  of  brandy  into 
his  country,  but  he  has  stopped  his  people  from  making 
their  own  native  beer.  He  has  not  only  put  an  end  to 
rain-making,  and  introduced  Christian  services  in  its  place, 
but  he  has  put  his  foot  down  firmly  upon  their  time-honoured 
ceremony  of  circumcision.  He  has  not  only  made  a  law 
against  the  purchase  of  slaves  (Masarwa  or  Bushmen),  and 
declared  himself  the  Bushman's  friend,  but  he  has  abolished 
bogadi  or  the  purchase  of  wives  by  cattle,  and  introduced 
the  law  of  marriage  from  free  choice,  at  an  age  when  young 
men  and  young  women  are  capable  of  forming  such  an 
attachment  intelligently.  Out  of  the  ruins  of  anarchy, 
lawlessness,  and  general  disorder,  he  has  been  building  up 
law,  order,  and  stability.  His  people  are  living  in  peace, 
his  fields  are  laden  with  corn,  the  white  man's  home  is  as 
sacred  as  in  his  own  country,  and  a  purer  morality  is 
growing  up  from  day  to  day  ^' 

From  1876  to  18H5  Mr.  Hepburn  laboured  single-handed 
at  Shoshong,  Mr.  Mackenzie  having  removed  to  the  Moffat 
Institution  at  Kuruman.  Early  in  1880  Joseph  Cockin, 
who  had  just  been  appointed  to  Matabeleland,  and  who 
was  passing  through  Shoshong,  died  there  very  suddenly. 
He  was  a  fine  man  physically,  most  devoted  and  earnest  in 
his  missionary  enthusiasm,  descended  from  a  good  stock,  his 
grandfather  having  been  a  founder  of  the  Society.     But  he 

'   T'ivenly  Years  in  Khainds  Country^  pp.  1:1,  122. 


638  THE  BECHWANA   MISSION:   1S60-1S95 

caui^ht  the  African  fever,  probably  from  inexperience  of 
the  deadly  nature  of  the  climate,  and  died  under  it  in  three 
or  four  days. 

At  the  same  time  it  became  evident  that  lack  of  funds 
would  prevent  the  Society  from  then  undertaking  the 
Lake  Ngami  Mission,  so  strongly  urged  by  Mr.  Hepburn. 
Whereupon  he  induced  the  Bamangwato  to  make  the 
mission  their  own,  and  in  1881  four  native  teachers  from 
that  church  were  taken  to  the  lake  by  Mr.  Hepburn. 
Khukwe  was  still  working  there,  and  was  greatly  encouraged 
by  this  visit. 

A  colleague  to  work  at  Shoshong,  Mr.  E.  Lloyd,  was 
appointed  in  1884,  and  he  reached  Shoshong  in  February, 
i88j.  The  Ngami  mission  was  sorely  hindered.  Moremi, 
the  chief,  had  given  way  to  drink  ;  the  Matabele  had 
invaded  the  lake,  and  though  at  last  they  were  driven  off, 
they  had  committed  many  cruelties.  In  t886  Mr.  Hepburn 
paid  the  natives  of  the  lake  his  last  visit ;  but  in  spite  of  all 
he  could  do,  Moremi  refused  to  allow  his  people  to  accept 
Christianity,  and  for  a  season  the  mission  had  to  be  aban- 
doned, to  be  resumed  under  Mr.  Wookey  and  Mr.  Reid  in 
i8g2. 

Meanwhile  great  changes  were  at  hand  for  Khame  and 
his  people.  Shoshong  had  been  chosen  as  the  tribe's 
residence,  not  because  it  was  the  best  obtainable  site,  but 
because  it  was  the  only  safe  place  with  such  neighbours  as 
the  Matabele.  Khame  was  wise  enough  to  see  the  benefit 
of  association  with  England,  and  in  1885  a  British  Pro- 
tectorate was  proclaimed  over  Bechwanaland.  This  set 
Khame  free  from  any  fear  of  Matabele  invasion,  and 
enabled  him  to  fix  his  capital  in  the  best  and  most  suitable 
part  of  his  country.  Removal  of  this  kind  is  very  easy  for 
an  African  tribe,  and  is  a  common  experience.  For  the 
missionaries  it  was  different,  since  churches,  schools,  and 
houses  cannot  be  rebuilt  as  rapidly  as  native  huts.  Pha- 
lapye\  about  100  miles  north-east  of  Shoshong,  was  the 
site  chosen.     Thither  in  1889  the  entire  tribe  migrated. 

^  Pronounced  Pa-lap-tchce. 


^ 


MR.  THOMPSON  AT  PHALAPYE  639 

Mr.  Hepburn,  a  man  of  highly  nervous  temperament, 
weakened  also  by  successive  and  severe  attacks  of  African 
fever,  left  alone  soon  after  the  migration  by  the  ill-health  of 
his  wife,  which  necessitated  her  departure  for  a  season  to 
recruit,  found  the  strain  of  the  new  environment  too  severe. 
He  also  undertook  the  erection  of  an  enormous  new  church. 
For  this  he  sacrificed  his  personal  convenience,  his  health, 
and  his  means.  Friction,  due  almost  entirely  to  his  state 
of  health,  developed  between  him  and  Khame.  He  paid 
a  flying  visit  to  England  towards  the  end  of  1891  to 
confer  with  the  Directors,  returning  to  Phalapye  in  a  few 
weeks.  On  his  return  Khame  refused  to  see  him,  though 
he  still  cherished  kindly  feelings  towards  his  old  friend. 
The  missionary  had  in  some  way  offended  the  dignity  of 
the  old  chief,  and  so,  after  a  brief  stay,  early  in  1892, 
Hepburn  left  for  ever  the  work  which  he  had  carried  on  for 
over  twenty  years  with  so  much  enthusiasm,  energy,  and 
devotion.     He  died  at  Gateshead  on  December  31,  1893. 

In  consequence  of  the  rupture  between  the  church  at 
Phalapye  and  their  missionary,  Mr.  Wardlaw  Thompson, 
accompanied  by  Mr.  Roger  Price,  visited  Khame  in  1892  to 
take  the  steps  needful  to  put  matters  straight.  The  narra- 
tive of  proceedings  is  deeply  interesting  as  an  example  of 
the  progress  made  in  self-government  by  the  best  Bechwana 
churches : — 

'  I  looked  forward  to  the  meeting  with  the  church  on 
Saturday.  August  27,  with  no  little  anxiety.  I  did  not  at 
all  know  in  what  temper  I  should  find  the  people — whether 
they  would  insist  upon  having  a  missionary  of  their  o'vn 
choice  or  none  at  all ;  or  whether  they  might  take  up  such 
a  position  on  the  relation  of  the  missionary  to  the  chief,  and 
of  the  Church  to  the  State,  as  might  make  it  impracticable 
to  carry  on  work  at  the  station.  The  chief  also,  when  he 
came  to  see  us  on  the  Friday  morning,  was  evidently 
worried  and  somewhat  constrained.  The  morning  came 
and  a  considerable  number  of  the  members  of  the  church 
assembled  early  to  meet  us.  Among  them  were  two  of 
the   chiefs   brothers   and  other  leading  men,   and   it  was 


640  THE  BECHWANA   MISSION:  1S61-1S95 

explained  that  others  were  away  from  home  at  their  cattle 
posts,  or  they  would  also  have  been  present.  We  com- 
menced our  meeting  at  9  a.m.,  and  continued  in  earnest 
and  sometimes  animated  discussion  until  i  p.m.  It  speedily 
became  apparent,  however,  that  my  anxieties  as  to  any 
unfriendly  or  unreasonable  attitude  on  the  part  of  the 
people  had  been  groundless.  There  was  a  spirit  of  con- 
ciliation and  moderation  in  all.  I  could  not  but  feel  that 
the  many  earnest  prayers  which  had  been  offered  that  my 
mission  might  be  guided  to  a  successful  issue  were  being 
answered. 

'  The  statements  made  by  the  people  gave  me  the  oppor- 
tunity, first,  of  expressing  my  belief  that  the  words  and 
acts  of  Mr.  Hepburn  which  had  caused  such  offence  were 
those  of  a  man  who  was  weak  and  ill  and  much  troubled  in 
mind,  and  that  they  had  altogether  misunderstood  his 
meaning.  Then  I  dealt  with  the  more  serious  question  of 
principle,  expressing  as  emphatically  and  distinctly  as 
I  could  the  opinion  that  the  Christians  were  subjects  of  the 
State,  bound  like  others  by  its  laws,  and  called  to  prove 
their  Christian  character  by  being  the  most  loyal  and 
obedient  of  all  the  people.  At  the  same  time  I  pointed 
out  that  there  was  another  voice,  the  voice  of  conscience, 
which  chief  and  people  alike  must  listen  to,  and  another 
law,  the  law  of  God,  which  must  be  supreme.  I  dwelt 
upon  the  spiritual  independence  of  the  church  in  its  worship 
and  work,  and  pointed  out  that  if  a  Christian  chief  was 
allowed,  as  chief,  to  interfere  with  the  liberty  of  the  church 
a  bad  chief  might  claim  the  right  to  do  so  also.  I  told 
them  that  we  in  England  had  in  past  times  suffered  much 
from  the  attempts  of  our  rulers  to  interfere  with  our  freedom, 
and  that  it  was  only  after  a  long  and  severe  struggle  that  we 
obtained  the  recognition  of  our  liberty.  And  I  reminded 
them  that  times  might  come  in  the  life  of  a  man,  or  in  the 
experience  of  the  Christian  community  in  Bechwanaland, 
when  the  law  of  God  must  be  obeyed  even  though  it  might 
involve  the  penalty  of  di.sobedience  to  the  law  of  the  State. 

'  At  once  Raditladi,  the  chiefs  brother  and  a  deacon  of 


CHURCH  MEETING  AT  PHALAPYE  641 

the  church,  responded  to  this  that  they  were  well  aware 
that  the  church  was  not  to  be  under  the  control  of  the 
State,  and  that  if  the  chief,  as  chief,  attempted  to  interfere 
with  them  in  their  Christian  Hfe  and  duty  they  would 
speedily  let  him  know  that  he  was  interfering  in  matters 
beyond  his  province.  Khame  also  spoke,  and  after  re- 
counting some  further  details  of  the  dispute  between 
Mr.  Hepburn  and  himself  which  had  not  yet  been  alluded 
to,  made  a  pathetic  appeal  to  Mr.  Price,  reminding  him 
that  he  had  received  him  into  the  church  as  a  v^outh,  when 
his  father,  Sekhome.  being  a  heathen  chief,  had  forbidden 
it  and  had  disinherited  him  from  the  chieftainship  for  being 
a  Christian.  He  then  declared  that  it  had  been  his  wish 
ever  since  he  came  to  the  chieftainship  to  give  all  his  people 
freedom  in  their  religious  life. 

'  Probably,  if  I  had  been  disposed  to  be  very  critical, 
I  should  have  found  that  the  ideas  of  the  Bamangwato  on 
voluntaryism  and  spiritual  independence  were  not  fully  up 
to  those  which  had  been  evolved  amongst  ourselves  by  the 
slow  pressure  of  much  experience — e.  g.  Khame,  as  an 
absolute  ruler,  having  a  right  to  claim  the  personal  service 
of  any  of  his  people,  evidently  saw  no  incongruity  in 
ordering  a  regiment  of  his  people  to  cut  poles  or  to  make 
bricks  for  church  building,  regardless  of  their  personal 
preferences  in  the  matter.  He  simply  looked  upon  this  as 
one  way  in  which  he  himself  could  contribute  to  the  church. 
But  the  Directors  will  agree  with  me  that  the  intelligent 
application  of  the  principles  of  Christian  freedom  to  all 
details  must  be  the  growth  of  time  and  experience,  and  that 
with  such  a  recognition  and  expression  of  the  principle  as 
was  given  at  this  meeting,  the  Society  may  freely  and 
confidently  carry  on  its  work  among  this  people,  thankful 
that  they  have  already  learned  so  much,  rather  than  troubled 
because  they  have  not  advanced  further.' 

The  missionary  chosen  to  succeed  Mr.  Hepburn  was  the 
Rev.  W.  C.  Willoughby,  who  accompanied  Khame,  Sebele, 
and  Bathoen  during  the  visit  they  paid  to  England  in  1H95 
to    protest  against   their   land   being    handed    over  to   the 

J.  T  t 


642  THE  BECHIVANA   MISSION :   1S60-1S95 

British  East  African  Company,  and  particularly  to  resist 
the  introduction  of  the  drink  traffic  into  Bechwanaland. 
This  visit  was  one  of  the  most  striking  incidents  of  the 
centenary  year.  Men  of  many  different  types  came  into 
contact  with  Khame  during  this  visit.  All  were  alike 
impressed  by  his  genial  nature,  his  fine  bearing,  his  in- 
tellectual ability,  and  his  Christian  character.  But  for 
Christian  missions  he  would  have  remained  a  savage. 
Under  the  power  of  the  Gospel  he  has  become  the  most 
conspicuous  example  in  South  Africa  of  the  level  to  which 
Christianity  is  seeking  to  lift  the  natives.  At  the  same 
time  he  is  an  object  lesson  in  the  capability  of  his  race  to 
rise  under  the  influence  of  the  truth. 

Through  all  the  negotiations  Khame  was  the  ruling 
spirit.  Here  is  part  of  the  appeal  he  drew  up,  taken  from 
the  Blue  Book.  It  is  a  remarkable  document  to  have  come 
from  the  son  of  a  wild  and  heathen  Bechwana  chief.  And 
it  may  be  fairly  claimed  as  a  remarkable  testimony  to 
missionary  success. 

*  We  came  to  England  to  ask  the  Government  of  the 
Great  Queen  to  continue  her  protection  over  us.  We  have 
seen  the  justice  and  kindness  with  which  the  Great  Queen 
seeks  to  govern  us.  We  know  that  her  officers  sometimes 
make  mistakes,  because  they  are  not  of  our  race,  and  can- 
not think  our  thoughts  or  understand  our  customs.  But 
there  is  no  Government  that  we  can  trust  as  we  trust 
that  of  the  Great  Queen.  We  pray  you  therefore  not  to 
throw  us  away  as  if  we  were  troublesome  children  who 
would  not  listen  to  their  mother's  words.  Our  people 
have  been  alarmed  at  the  words  which  say  that  we  are  to 
be  given  to  the  Company,  and  we  are  anxious  that  you 
should  tell  us  plainly  that  you  will  not  give  us  away  against 
our  wishes. 

*  We  fear  the  Company  because  we  think  they  will  take 
our  land  and  sell  it  to  others.  We  fear  that  they  will  fill 
our  country  with  liquor  shops,  as  they  have  Buluwayo  and 
some  parts  of  Mashonaland  and  Matabeleland.  We  see 
that  they  are  not  content  with  the  concessions  that  we  have 


KHAME'S  APPEAL    TO    THE  QUEEN  643 

given  them,  and  that  they  want  us  also  ;  we  do  not  know 
what  they  wish  to  do  with  us.  We  fear  also  because  we  see 
that  they  are  people  v^ithout  gratitude  ;  if  Khame  had  not 
helped  them  they  could  not  have  established  themselves  in 
Mashonaland,  and  again  in  Matabeleland,  and  yet  they  try 
to  take  Khame's  country  secretly,  and  we  fear,  also,  because 
we  hear  the  words  of  the  Makalaka  and  Matabele,  who  live 
under  the  Company,  and  we  say  that  these  people  do  not 
like  their  rulers.  We  ask,  therefore,  that  we  may  continue 
under  the  rule  of  the  Great  Queen,  and  lest  there  should  be 
any  new  troubles,  we  ask  that  boundaries  should  be  made 
around  each  of  our  countries,  so  that  all  may  know  what  is 
ours,  and  know  also  that  we  live  in  it  under  the  Government 
of  the  Great  Queen. 

'  But  we  have  heard  words  from  the  Government  which 
frighten  us.  It  is  said  that  the  Government  has  promised 
to  give  us  away,  though  they  have  not  said  when  they  will 
do  so.  We  heard  these  words  before,  but  we  did  not 
believe  them.  We  said,  "No  !  It  cannot  be.  The  Govern- 
ment is  great  and  good  :  it  will  not  give  us  away  without 
asking  what  we  think  about  it.  Shall  a  mother  promise  to 
give  away  the  child  that  has  lived  in  her  house  for  years, 
and  that  without  speaking  to  the  child  ?  "  Now  we  arc 
dumb  !  There  are  no  words  !  But  if  you  cannot  go  back- 
on  the  words  which  you  have  spoken,  we  pray  you  to  help 
us  in  two  ways.  Let  us  continue  to  live  under  the  Govern- 
ment for  ten  years,  till  we  can  get  to  know  the  Company 
better.  If  they  are  good  in  their  government  of  the  Maka- 
laka and  Matabele  we  shall  get  to  know  it,  and  our  people 
will  trust  them,  and  when  you  agree  that  we  shall  pass 
under  the  rule  of  the  Chartered  Company,  we  pray  that  you 
will  put  strong  words  in  the  agreement  to  help  us  and 
protect  us.  Do  not  let  them  take  away  the  land,  which  is 
the  life  of  your  children.  Do  not  let  them  bring  liquor  into 
our  country  to  kill  our  people  speedily.  Do  not  let  them 
deprive  us  of  our  right  to  hunt  the  game  that  is  in  our 
country,  and  do  not  let  them  deprive  us  of  our  right  to  do 
justice  among  our  own  people.   Wc  know  them  better  than 

T  t  2 


644  THE  BECHWANA   MISSION :   1SG0-1S95 

you  do,  and  can  act  more  justly  towards  them  than  you 
can,  though  we  know  that  you  wish  to  be  just. 

•  We  pray  that  you  will  hear  our  words  and  help  us.  We 
are,  the  chiefs  of  some  of  your  people,  Khame  (Chief  of  the 
Bamangwato)  ;  Sebele  (Chief  of  the  Bechwana)  ;  Bathoen 
(Chief  of  the  Bangwaketse).' 

During  the  last  twenty-five  years  of  the  century,  mission- 
work  was  carried  on  steadily  at  most  of  the  centres  in 
Bechwanaland.  In  1876  the  veteran,  Mr.  W.  Ashton,  for 
years  past  the  senior  South  African  missionary  of  the 
Society,  was  stationed  at  Barkly  West,  a  growingly 
important  centre. 

'  Barkly  is  not  strictly  a  station,  though  it  is  the  centre 
of  much  earnest  and  important  work.  It  is  a  town  of  about 
5,cco  inhabitants  on  the  northern  bank  of  the  Vaal  River 
in  the  colonial  district  of  Griqualand  West,  and  about 
twenty-five  miles  from  Kimberley.  Here  Mr.  Ashton,  who 
was  the  Society's  treasurer  and  secretary  for  the  Bechwana 
and  Matabele  Mission,  superintended  the  work  of  native 
evangelists  at  Likhatlong,  Griqua  Town,  and  other  out- 
stations  on  the  Vaal  River,  besides  carrying  on  work  among 
the  native  population  at  Barkly,  Gong-gong,  and  other 
centres  in  the  immediate  neighbourhood  to  which  men  have 
gathered  for  the  work  of  washing  diamonds. 

'  Much  of  the  work  in  connection  with  this  station  is  of 
a  peculiar  kind,  but  very  important.  Since  the  country 
came  under  colonial  rule,  the  native  population  has  moved 
away  from  a  considerable  pait  of  the  district.  Some  have 
gone  across  the  border  into  native  territories  ;  some 
have  become  absorbed  into  the  towns.  In  their  place 
have  come  others,  mostly  attracted  to  the  centres  of 
diamond  digging  or  washing  by  the  good  wages  given  for 
such  labour  ;  they  come  from  all  parts  of  South  Africa, 
from  the  far  interior  of  Bechwanaland,  and  even  Matebele- 
land,  from  Basutoland,  Kafraria,  and  the  Cape  Colony. 
Most  of  them  remain  only  for  a  f^w  months  at  a  time, 
returning  to  their  homes  with  their  savings  to  enjoy  them- 
selves among  their  friends.     Mr.  Ashton  had  to  conduct 


DEATH  OF   WILLIAM   ASHTON  645 

a  composite  service  at  Barkly  and  Gong-gong,  two,  and 
sometimes  even  more,  languages  being  used  at  each  time 
of  worship.  The  people  under  his  care  have  shown  their 
appreciation  of  the  benefits  of  Christianity  in  many  ways. 
There  is  no  part  of  our  South  African  mission-field  in 
which  so  large  a  number  of  Bibles  and  hymn-books  are 
sold,  nor  are  there  any  who  contribute  so  liberally  to  the 
funds  of  the  Society.  The  influence  of  the  mission  in 
such  a  centre  as  this  is  twofold.  It  is  a  means  of  protection 
and  help  to  many  members  of  mission  churches  in  other 
parts  who  come  seeking  for  employment,  and  it  is  the 
means  of  conveying  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  to  heathens 
from  various  parts  of  South  Africa  ^.' 

Mr.  Ashton  passed  to  his  rest  on  March  29,  1897. 
He  had  given  fifty-four  years  of  earnest  labour  to 
Bechwanaland.  Preceding  pages  have  done  justice  to  his 
many-sided  work.  He  never  filled  the  public  eye  like  his 
more  famous  colleague,  Robert  Moffat.  He  is  rather  the 
type  of  quiet,  steady,  undemonstrative  missionary  upon 
whose  shoulders  so  much  of  the  responsibility  of  the  work 
rests,  and  upon  whose  faithfulness  so  much  of  the  success 
achieved  depends.  He  lived  in  close  touch  with  the 
Bechwana  for  more  than  half  a  century,  he  remained  in 
harness  until  almost  the  last  day  of  his  life,  and  he  now 
sleeps  among  the  people  to  whose  elevation  he  had 
consecrated  his  life. 

Mission  work  at  Taung  was  begun  in  1868  by  Mr.  John 
Brown,  who  is  still  (1899)  the  head  of  the  station.  In  his 
report  for  the  decade  ending  1890  Mr.  Brown  gives  the 
following  account  of  the  work  : 

'In  1880  I  was  away  doing  special  work  at  Kuruman  ; 
and  the  Taung  Church  and  district  was  in  charge  of  a  native 
teacher,  named  Matsani.  His  position  was  no  doubt  a 
difficult  one  ;  and  he  doubtless  thought  that  the  easiest 
way  to  avoid  difficulty  was  to  support  the  chief  in  his  plans 
and  purposes,  though  they  were  inimical  to  the  well-being 
of  some  of  the  people  in  other  parts  of  the  district,  who 

'■  Report  for  1885,  p.  127. 


646  THE  BECHWANA   MISSION:   1860-1895 

were  also  under  his  pastoral  care.  The  mistake  thus  made 
by  Matsani  led  him  into  other  mistakes  as  time  went  on, 
and  he  gradually  came  to  occupy  the  dangerous  position  of 
a  Christian  teacher  trying  to  do  all  he  could  to  please  and 
gratify  a  heathen  chief.  When  I  returned  in  1885,  diffi- 
culties natural  to  such  a  position  had  become  developed  ; 
and  when,  shortly  afterwards,  Matsani  lost  the  confidence 
of  the  district  committee,  and  was  removed  not  only  from 
his  position  as  a  teacher,  but  also  as  a  church  member,  the 
chief  was  not  prepared  to  agree  to  the  decision,  and  some 
of  Matsani's  more  intimate  friends  in  the  church  and  con- 
gregation were  disposed  to  side  with  him.  Then  came  our 
lamentable  experience  in  the  Land  Courts,  when  the  chief 
repudiated  the  grant  of  land  given  to  the  London  Missionary 
Society  at  Kuruman,  and  was  supported  in  that  repudiation 
by  Matsani  and  two  church  members,  whose  names  were 
on  the  deed  of  gift  as  witnesses.  Church  discipline  had  to 
be  exercised  upon  those  who  were  on  good  grounds  believed 
to  be  guilty  of  bearing  false  witness  ;  and  this  was  followed 
by  a  division  in  the  church— some  of  Matsani's  friends 
separating  themselves  in  obedience  to  the  command  of  the 
chief— and  separate  services  were  begun  in  the  chiefs 
kgotla,  in  which  Matsani  officiated  as  the  chiefs  teacher. 

'  These  matters — easy  as  it  is  to  write  about  them — 
caused  no  little  trouble  to  us  all.  The  members  of  the 
church  who  refused  to  follow  Matsani's  lead  and  submit  to 
the  chief's  authority  in  spiritual  things  were  much  tried, 
and  their  experience  proved  that  their  professions  of 
religion  were  no  empty  pretence,  but  a  thing  with  a  back- 
bone in  it.  They  were  again  publicly  and  formally  accused 
of  disloyalty  to  their  chief,  and  they  were  threatened  with 
banishment  unless  they  forsook  the  white  man's  teaching 
and  united  with  Matsani's  party.  The  Master,  however, 
gave  them  grace  to  confess  Him  before  men ;  and  they  did 
not  fear  to  tell  the  chief  that  while  in  temporal  matters 
they  would  willingly  obey,  in  matters  affecting  their  life 
and  profession  as  Christians  they  must  obey  God  rather 
than  man. 


PROGRESS  AT   TAUXG  647 

'  This  state  of  things  went  on  for  more  than  two  years, 
and  during  that  time  there  seemed  to  be  no  hope  of  re- 
union and  peace,  but  in  God's  own  time  and  way  the  breach 
was  healed  ;  and  we  begin  the  new  year  as  a  united  church 
and  congregation  in  the  large  new  church. 

*  The  people  of  the  Taung  district  have  during  the  last 
ten  years  seen  that  the  chief  cannot  occupy  the  same  position 
in  relation  to  the  Gospel  as  that  which  he  occupies  in  relation 
to  rain-makers  and  heathen  doctors.  They  have  seen  that 
those  who  trust  in  God  and  give  themselves  to  be  guided 
b\'  Him  have  nothing  to  fear  even  from  the  wrath  of  man 
and  the  powers  of  evil.  They  have  seen  that  strife  springing 
from  selfishness  and  self-interest  does  not  pay.  And  during 
the  ten  years  the  Gospel  has  been  preached  continually 
in  nearly  every  town  and  large  village  in  the  district,  and 
God's  Spirit  has  continually  been  calling  one  and  another 
from  heathenism  and  from  sinful  indifference  to  seek 
salvation  in  the  atoning  blood  of  Jesus  and  peace  in  the 
fullness  of  God's  love.' 

Kanye,  another  important  centre  of  work,  became  a 
mission  station  in  1S71.  It  is  the  capital  of  the  Bangwa- 
ketsi  tribe.  The  Rev.  James  Good  has  had  charge  of  the 
station  since  1871.  Connected  with  the  mission  are  three 
out-stations.  Mr.  Edwin  Lloyd  removed  from  Phalapye  to 
act  as  Mr.  Good's  colleague  in  1892. 

*  The  tribe  of  the  Bangwaketse  is  one  of  the  strongest 
and  oldest  in  Bechwanaland,  and  possesses  considerable 
wealth  in  cattle.  The  people  also  grow  a  large  amount 
of  tobacco  and  grain.  The  country  around  Kanye  is  very 
hilly.  The  hills  are  not  lofty  ;  they  have  the  appearance 
of  being  what  was  left  after  some  great  denudation  of 
a  former  extensive  table-land.  They  are  almost  all  flat- 
topped,  with  very  extensive  surface  on  the  summit.  Kanye 
is  situated  chiefly  on  the  top  of  one  of  those  hills.  There 
are  no  means  of  obtaining  an  accurate  estimate  of  the 
population,  but,  judging  from  the  number  of  huts,  it 
probably  amounts  to  about  10,000. 

'Several  places  of  worship  have  been  erected  in  different 


648  THE  BECHWANA   MISSION :   1S60-1895 

parts  of  the  town  on  the  hill.  The  church  and  other 
buildings  for  school  and  worship  have  been  erected  by  the 
people  themselves.  They  are  very  plain  but  substantial, 
and  well  suited  for  the  purposes  for  which  they  are 
intended.  There  is  a  small  day  school  at  the  station, 
under  the  charge  of  a  native  teacher.  The  mission  has 
evidently  obtained  a  firm  hold  on  the  confidence  and 
affection  of  many  of  the  people,  though  by  far  the  larger 
proportion  of  the  tribe  are  still  in  a  degraded  heathenism. 
The  services  on  the  Sabbath  and  on  week-days  are  attended 
by  a  large  number,  including  many  of  the  chief's  family. 
Mission  work  at  the  out-stations  is  carried  on  by  evangelists 
trained  at  the  Kuruman  Institute  and  supported  from  the 
Native  Preachers'  Fund  ^' 

At  Molepolole  the  first  missionary,  in  1867,  was  Roger 
Price,  who  was  succeeded  in  1885  by  A.  J.  Wookey,  he  in 
3889  giving  place  to  Mr.  Howard  Williams. 

'  The  position  of  Molepolole  is  in  many  respects  similar 
to  that  of  Kanye,  though  more  picturesque.  The  town  is 
the  centre  of  the  Bechwana  people.  Sechele,  the  chief,  has 
been  familiar  to  many  English  readers  for  many  years, 
from  his  connection  with  Dr.  Livingstone,  who  commenced 
work  at  Kolobeng,  the  former  capital  of  the  tribe.  The 
principal  chapel  is  at  the  head  of  the  ravine  which  leads 
up  to  the  native  town  at  the  top  of  the  hill.  It  is  a  large 
building,  capable  of  seating  400  or  500  persons.  Two  con- 
gregations meet  in  the  station  every  Sunday,  and  the 
missionary  is  assisted  in  carrying  on  services  on  Sunday 
and  week-days  by  nine  members  of  the  church,  who 
conduct  meetings  in  the  schoolroom  and  in  other  places. 
The  day  school  here  is  the  best  in  Bechwanaland.  The 
only  permanent  out-station  connected  with  this  mission  is 
Kolobeng  2.' 

'   Kcport  for  1885,  p.  130.  «  Ibid.  p.  131. 


:y  in 
nent 
^reat 
•ated 
been 
hose 
nent 

iley, 
alof 
that 
ider- 
toria 
;ti-ict 
iety, 
sea 
r  on 

ym 

o  be 
luch 
with 
and 
ttle- 
king 
rises 


igr  Philip  \  Sou  LoikUiti  a  UvvTf  .-■ol 


CHAPTER    XXVII 

THE    MISSION    TO    CF.NTRAL    AFRICA 

The  last  great  enterprise  undertaken  by  the  Society  in 
Africa  was  the  Central  African  Mission.  This  movement 
originated  in  a  noble  ambition,  and  has  represented  a  great 
extension  of  work.  The  outcome  of  a  lofty  hope,  floated 
upon  the  tide  of  a  great  enthusiasm,  it  has,  nevertheless,  been 
one  long  tragedy  in  the  sacrifice  of  life  on  the  part  of  those 
who  have  attempted  to  work  it,  and  in  the  disappointment 
of  the  fondest  anticipations  of  those  who  projected  it. 

The  opening  up  of  Central  Africa  by  Livingstone,  Stanley, 
and  others  led  to  combined  action  on  the  part  of  several  of 
the  great  missionary  societies  for  the  evangelization  of  that 
part  of  the  globe.  The  Church  Missionary  Society  under- 
took Uganda,  lying  on  the  shores  of  the  great  lake,  Victoria 
Nyanza ;  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland  selected  the  district 
around  Lake  Nyassa  ;  and  the  London  Missionary  Society, 
the  lake  lying  between  these  two — the  great  inland  sea 
called  Lake  Tanganyika.  For  the  last  named  Zanzibar  on 
the  east  coast  was  selected  as  the  starting-point,  and  Ujiji, 
on  the  most  eastern  shore  of  Lake  Tanganyika,  was  to  be 
the  first  station.  The  enterprise  was  the  subject  of  much 
deliberation,  of  fervent  prayer,  of  frequent  consultation  with 
the  men  who  were  suppo.sed  to  know  both  the  country  and 
the  best  way  to  reach  it,  and  there  form  a  permanent  settle- 
ment ;  yet  it  stands  on  the  page  of  history  rather  as  a  striking 
and  instructive  example  of  how  great  missionary  enterprises 


650  THE  MISSION  TO   CENTRAL  AFRICA 

ought  not  to  be  attempted.  It  is,  perhaps,  too  much  to  say 
that  the  worst  hindrances  and  trials  ought  to  have  been 
easily  foreseen  ;  but  the  painfully  fascinating  story  seems 
to  emphasize  the  lesson  that  experience  has  to  be  dearly 
purchased,  and  that  these  pioneer  missions,  so  necessary 
before  the  Gospel  can  be  preached  to  every  creature,  involve 
very  heavy  sacrifices  of  time  and  energy,  and  money,  and 
life. 

During  1875  and  1876  the  project  gradually  took  shape 
in  the  plans  and  decisions  of  the  Directors.  Mr.  Roger  Price 
and  Mr.  J.  B.  Thomson  were  summoned  home,  the  one 
from  Molepolole,  the  other  from  Matabeleland,  to  aid  the 
Directors  with  their  counsel,  and  to  assume  the  leadership 
of  the  new  enterprise.  The  expedition,  placed  under  their 
guidance,  left  Zanzibar  on  July  21,  1877.  It  consisted  of 
Messrs.  Roger  Price,  E.  S.  Clarke,  J.  B.  Thomson,  E.  C. 
Hore,  A.  W.  Dodgshun,  and  Walter  Hutley.  Of  these  all 
were  ordained  missionaries  except  Hore,  who  went  as  '  the 
scientific  member'  of  the  party,  and  Hutley,  who  was  an 
artisan.  For  economical  reasons,  bullock  wagons  and 
carts  were  used  for  the  transport  of  the  baggage  and  stores. 
Mackay,  afterwards  so  famous  in  Uganda,  had  during  an 
advance,  and  in  connection  with  the  C.  M.  S.  Mission,  made 
a  rough  road  for  about  150  miles.  This  road  the  expedi- 
tion followed.  In  a  short  time  the  difficulties  of  wagon 
conveyance  became  painfully  apparent.  The  rate  of  pro- 
gress was  only  six  or  seven  miles  a  day  ;  the  wagons  stuck 
in  the  uneven  roads  and  swamps,  and  before  the  end  of 
October  seventy  out  of  the  ninety  oxen  employed  had  died, 
owing  to  the  tsetse  fly,  the  climate,  and  the  rank  grass  which 
they  ate.  Frequent  attacks  of  fever,  to  which  all  the 
members  of  the  expedition  were  subject,  added  to  the 
depression  produced  by  the  difficulties  of  the  journey,  and 
at  length  some  of  the  party,  Price  in  particular,  came  to 
the  conclusion  that  the  constitution  of  the  expedition  was 
a  mistake.  It  aimed  at  too  much.  It  was  overloaded  with 
baggage,  and  it  seemed  to  him  not  unlikely  to  resemble  the 
ill-fated  Makololo  expedition  of  eighteen  years  before.     So 


START  OF  THE  EXPEDITION  651 

large  was  the  impedimenta  that  the  time  spent  on  the 
journey  up  country  was  greatly  prolonged,  because  some  of 
the  party  had  to  return  again  and  again  to  the  coast  for 
ctores  for  which  no  wagons  could  be  found  at  the  start. 

At  length  anxious  deliberations  were  held  by  the  brethren 
as  to  the  best  method  of  surmounting  their  difficulties.  To 
attempt  the  journey  to  Ujiji  with  oxen,  after  the  experience 
they  had  passed  through,  'seemed  madness.'  To  employ 
pagazi  or  carriers  would  involve  so  great  an  expense  that 
they  felt  it  needful  first  to  consult  the  Directors.  They 
had  also  reached  the  conclusion  that  to  attempt  a  continuous 
journey  to  Lake  Tanganyika  was  a  task  beyond  their 
powers,  and  that  the  establishment  of  intermediate  stations 
was  the  only  practicable  method  of  continuing  the  journey. 
This  state  of  affairs  seemed  so  serious  that  finally  Price  was 
deputed  by  the  other  brethren  to  proceed  at  once  to  London, 
and  consult  the  Directors.  About  a  fortnight  after  Price 
had  started  on  his  homeward  journey,  the  remaining 
brethren  changed  their  opinion,  and  sent  a  messenger  post- 
haste to  recall  him  ;  but  the  messenger  was  too  late,  and 
IVice  had  already  sailed  from  Zanzibar.  It  is  to  be  regretted 
that  this  scheme  of  intermediate  stations  was  not  more 
seriously  entertained  and  strenuously  advocated  on  the 
Board.  For  experience  had  rendered  it  practically  certain 
that  had  this  course  been  adopted,  many  lives  and  much 
expenditure  might  have  been  saved.  By  this  means  the 
work  also  would  in  all  probability  have  been  placed  much 
earlier  upon  a  sound  basis. 

One  member  of  the  party,  the  Rev.  E.  S.  Clarke,  formerly 
pastor  of  a  native  church  in  Natal,  decided  even  at  this 
early  stage  to  withdraw  from  the  expedition,  lie  had 
joined  it  without  a  full  knowledge  of  the  Directors'  plans. 
He  had  been  under  the  impression  that  his  wife  and  six 
children  would  soon  be  able  to  join  him  at  Ujiji ;  but  he 
now  saw  that  such  an  arrangement  could  not  be  carried  out 
for  'many  years,'  if  at  all,  and  hence  in  January,  icSjS.  he 
returned  to  Natal. 

In    March,    1878,  Thomson    received    instructions    from 


652  THE  MISSION  TO   CENTRAL  AFRICA 

home  that  Price  would  not  return,  and  that  he  was  to  take 
the  lead  of  the  expedition,  and  to  proceed  to  Ujiji  from 
Kirasa,  where  the  expedition  had  been  encamped  for  some 
time.  He  was  to  take  with  him  as  much  of  the  baggage  as 
possible.  On  arriving  at  Mpwapwa,  about  150  miles  from 
the  coast,  Thomson  was  in  a  very  low  state  of  health,  and 
had  to  be  carried  into  that  village.  On  subsequent  portions 
of  the  journey  also  he  was  too  ill  to  walk.  In  the  meantime 
statements  had  appeared  in  the  London  press  to  the  effect 
that  the  mission  had  proved  a  disastrous  failure.  This 
report  served  only  to  nerve  the  expedition  with  fresh  energy, 
and  to  make  its  members  resolve  anew  upon  the  completion 
of  their  task.  Thomson's  portion  of  the  caravan  reached 
Urambo  at  the  end  of  July,  and  here  the  leader  made 
'  blood  brotherhood  '  with  the  famous  chief  Mirambo,  the 
all-powerful  ruler  of  this  part  of  Central  Africa.  Steadily 
prosecuting  the  journey,  Thomson  arrived  at  Ujiji  on 
August  23,  1878,  having  been  just  thirteen  months  coming 
thither  from  Zanzibar,  a  distance  of  about  800  miles. 

In  the  following  month  Thomson  was  seized  with  apo- 
plexy, and  died  suddenly  on  September  22.  For  the  next 
few  months  Hore  was  busily  engaged  in  erecting  mission 
premises  ;  in  securing  the  friendship  of  the  Arabs,  in  whose 
hands  all  Ujiji  affairs  were  centred ;  in  making  short  journeys 
on  Lake  Tanganyika  in  a  boat  called  the  Calabash,  which 
he  had  hired;  and  in  attempting  to  set  up  a  medical  mission. 
^rhe  slave-trading  Arabs,  although  they  gave  the  missionaries 
a  cordial  reception,  saw  clearly  that  the  coming  of  the  white 
men  meant  restraint  and  loss  to  their  most  iniquitous  slave- 
trade.  Hence  they  were  not  averse  to  throwing  obstacles 
in  the  way  of  the  mission,  whilst  the  natives  held  aloof  from 
the  missionaries  through  fear  of  the  Arabs. 

Dodgshun,  assisted  by  a  French  trader  named  Broyon, 
had  for  many  months  been  superintending  the  journey  of 
the  remaining  portion  of  the  caravan.  He  had  surmounted 
very  great  difficulties,  dangers,  and  hardships.  The  sultan's 
pass  with  which  he  had  been  provided  '  seemed  worse  than 
useless  ' ;  he  was  often  threatened  by  armed  natives  whom 


DEATH  OF  DODGSHVN  653 

he  terms  '  human  wolves  '  :  and  his  journey  was  '  a  daily 
dodging  of  fate.'  His  carriers  ran  away  ;  Mirambo  seized 
his  goods ;  and  he  at  length  arrived  at  Ujiji  in  woful 
condition  on  March  27,  1H79,  but  died  only  seven  days 
after  he  had  reached  his  long  anticipated  goal,  utterly  worn 
out  by  the  fatigues,  hardships,  and  anxieties  which  he  had 
encountered.  He  was  buried  by  the  side  of  Thomson. 
He  had  been  travelling  just  two  years,  having  arrived  at 
Zanzibar  in  April.  1877.  It  was  a  marvel  that  he  had  been 
able  to  resist  so  long  the  combined  onslaught  of  privation, 
fever,  exposure,  and  worry. 

Thus  in  the  course  of  two  years  only  four  of  the  six 
workers  had  been  able  to  reach  Ujiji,  and  of  these,  two  had 
died  almost  as  soon  as  they  looked  on  the  waters  of  the 
lake.  Mr.  Thomson,  as  we  have  seen  in  Chapter  XXV 
had  done  good  service  in  Matabeleland.  He  was  a  man 
of  energy  and  faith,  and  he  had  had  sufficient  experience  of 
African  Hfe  and  of  intercourse  with  natives  to  create  the 
expectation  that  he  would  prove  of  the  greatest  service  to 
the  new  mission.  But  he  was  stricken  down  after  only  eight 
years'  service  in  the  hard  African  field.  Mr.  Dodgshun  was 
a  man  of  unusual  promise.  In  the  opinion  alike  of  friends  who 
knew  him  well,  and  of  many  who  on  even  slight  acquain- 
tance were  strongly  attracted  to  him,  he  was  highly  qualified 
for  the  service  laid  upon  him.  There  is  peculiar  pathos  in 
his  successful  struggle  to  reach  Ujiji,  in  the  gleam  of  hope 
for  a  day  or  two  that  he  would  regain  strength,  and  then  in 
the  sudden  sinking  to  rest  of  his  worn-out  frame.  But 
though  so  soon  removed,  the  faithfulness  to  death  of 
Thomson  and  Dodgshun  acted  as  a  powerful  stimulus  to 
other  hearts,  and  came  to  them  as  a  call  not  to  be  resisted. 

The  tidings  of  the  difficulties  and  sufferings  of  the  whole 
party,  and  of  the  deaths  of  two  who  could  so  ill  be  spared, 
caused  grief  and  consternation  at  home.  But  though  even 
at  that  early  date  there  were  those  who  counselled  the  aban- 
donment of  the  enterprise,  this  course  found  no  favour  with 
either  the  Directors  or  the  great  body  of  their  supporters. 
T4ie  death  of  the  [)ionccr  is  the  summons  that  compels  the 


654  ^^^  MISSION  TO  CENTRAL  AFRICA 

consecration  of  new  lives  to  the  same  great  enterprise.  So 
was  it  now.  The  Directors  gave  themselves  with  renewed 
zeal  to  the  work  of  succouring  the  two  lonely  workers  at 
Ujiji ;  others  came  forward  to  take  the  place  of  the  dead. 

A  second  expedition  was  at  once  organized,  and  so 
important  did  he  consider  it  that  Dr.  Mullens  resolved  to  go 
himself  to  Zanzibar.  He  was  accompanied  by  Dr.  E.  J. 
Southon,  a  medical  missionary,  and  Mr.  W.  Griffith.  They 
reached  Zanzibar  in  May,  1879.  It  was  expected  that 
Mr.  Pickersgill  of  Mojanga,  in  Madagascar,  would  join  the 
expedition  and  lead  it ;  and  it  was,  apparently,  not  the  in- 
tention of  Dr.  Mullens,  when  he  left  London,  to  proceed 
into  the  interior.  Finding  that  Pickersgill  had  declined 
the  Directors'  proposal,  Dr.  Mullens  decided  to  accompany 
the  party.  In  a  letter  from  Zanzibar,  dated  May  30,  1879, 
he  wrote :  *  Dr.  Kirk  thinks  that  with  care,  carried  into  the 
interior,  and  not  compelled  to  walk,  I  may  be  able  to  bear 
the  strain  of  the  journey.  .  .  .  I  shall  formally  join  our  new 
expedition,  and  endeavour  as  speedily  and  comfortably  as 
possible  to  reach  Ujiji  and  the  brethren  there.  I  do  this 
diffidently,  calmly,  with  a  deep  sense  of  my  own  lack  of 
youth  and  vigour,  and  of  the  grave  external  perils  around 
us.  But  I  do  so,  believing  that  the  call  has  come  direct 
from  God,  that  He  has  given  me  the  grace  to  hear  and 
accept  it ;  and  I  do  it  in  firm  reliance  upon  His  promised 
])resence  and  help  in  service  asked  for  by  Himself.  .  .  .  Let 
me  add  that  I  am  anxious  to  complete  my  present  duties 
as  soon  as  circumstances  allow  ;  and,  if  spared,  to  resume 
my  place  amongst  you,  and  render  to  the  Society  a  better 
service  than  ever  hitherto.' 

The  expedition  left  Zanzibar  June  33,  1879;  but  in 
a  month  Dr.  Mullens'  health  became  so  seriously  affected 
that  he  decided  not  to  go  further  than  Mpwapwa.  Griffith, 
in  his  journal  under  date  of  July  9,  wrote:  'Dr.  Mullens 
has  had  the  fever  '  ;  and  on  July  10:  '  I  got  up  very  early, 
and  found  the  doctor  nothing  better.  Mr.  Southon  had 
frequently  visited  him  during  the  night.  I  sat  with  him  in 
the  tent  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half.     Mr.  Southon  and 


DEATH   OF  DR.   MULLENS  655 

Dr.  Baxter^  offered  prayer  ;  but  unexpectedly  and  suddenly 
his  spirit  escaped  its  mortal  frame.'  Dr.  Southon  in  his 
journal  notes  :  '  Great  difficulty  in  getting  the  men  to  carry 
Dr.  Mullens.'  After  speaking  of  the  doctor's  indisposition 
with  its  signs  of  fever,  he  writes  :  '  Monday,  July  7. — Dear 
Dr.  Mullens  is  not  going  on  further  than  Mpwapwa.  I  had 
never  for  a  moment  thought  that  he  would  turn  short  of 
Ujiji.  He  has  struggled  bravely  on.  True,  his  health  has 
been  exceptionally  good,  but  I  hardly  expected  him  to 
succumb  to  the  first  touch  of  fever.  Dr.  Mullens  has  been 
as  a  father  to  me,  a  genial  companion,  a  true  friend  —  ready 
with  sympathy,  with  counsel,  with  help  if  he  could.  He  is 
very  different  from  the  official  Dr.  Mullens  of  London.  He 
is  full  of  jokes  and  geniality.  With  the  men  he  is  a  great 
favourite.  When  "  Bwana  kubwa "  comes  among  them 
there  is  sure  to  be  great  laughter.  At  our  table  he  is  ready 
with  sallies  of  wit  and  humour,  and  really  we  prolong  the 
meals  for  the  pleasure  of  conversation.  And  now  all  this  is 
to  be  cut  short,  and  Mr.  Griffith  and  I  are  to  face  Ugogo 
alone.' 

'  Thursday,  July  10. — About  twelve  last  night  I  awoke, 
and  heard  shortly  after  Dr.  Mullens  in  a  raving  delirium. 
I  hastened  to  him  and  called  Dr.  Baxter,  who  assisted  me 
the  remaining  part  of  that  dark  and  dismal  night.  We  did 
everything  that  our  knowledge  and  resources  permitted, 
but  he  sank  under  our  hands  and  finally  expired  at  5.20  a.m. 
When  we  saw  that  it  was  useless  to  do  more,  and  that  a  few 
minutes  must  terminate  his  life,  we  knelt  to  One  who  pitied 
our  distress  and  helped  us  to  bear  our  trial.  With  stream- 
ing eyes  we  commended  him  who  was  departing  to  Him 
who  was  about  to  receive  him  for  ever.  .  .  .  QuickK-  and 
promptly  we  packed  up  everything,  and  having  swathed 
the  body  of  our  late  friend  in  white  cloth  it  was  fastened  in 
blankets,  put  into  a  hammock,  and  at  6.30  a.m.  all  had  left 
the  camp,  where  lately  so  sorrowful  a  scene  had  been 
enacted.' 

Dr.  Mullens  was  buried  at  Mpwapwa  on  July  12.  a  mile 

*  A  C.M.S.  missionary  stationed  at  Mpwapwa. 


656  THE  MISSION   TO  CENTRAL   AFRICA 

away  from  the  new  C.M.S.  missionary  buildings.  In  this 
way,  far  from  home  and  friends,  but  in  the  discharge  of 
what  he  felt  to  be  a  high  and  sacred  duty,  passed  away  the 
man  who  for  thirty-six  years,  first  as  missionary  in  India, 
and  then  as  Foreign  Secretary,  had  given  the  best  of  his 
heart  and  hand  and  brain  to  the  service  of  the  Society. 

Continuing  their  journey,  Southon  and  Griffith  reached 
Ujiji  on  September  23.  In  a  short  time  Griffith  crossed  the 
lake  and  founded  a  mission  on  the  western  shore,  at  Mtowa, 
I'guha  ;  and  Southon  went  back  to  Urambo,  having  been 
invited  to  settle  there  by  its  chief,  Mirambo,  who  had  now 
given  up  the  property  taken  from  Dodgshun.  The  chief 
soon  showed  signs  of  improvement  in  matters  of  civiliza- 
tion, and  he  was  eager  for  his  people  to  be  taught  medicine  ; 
but  no  deep  impression  could  be  made  upon  him,  and  at 
this  time  Southon  even  deemed  it  prudent  not  to  denounce 
his  traffic  in  slaves,  in  which  he  was  largely  engaged. 

Hore  in  the  meantime  had  attempted  to  extend  the 
mission  by  journeys  on  the  lake  in  the  Calabash  to  various 
tribes,  and,  although  usually  meeting  with  a  friendly  recep- 
tion, his  efforts  resulted  in  httle  or  nothing  in  the  way  of 
permanent  benefit.  The  missionaries'  great  difficulty,  apart 
from  climatic  dangers,  was  their  position  with  regard  to  the 
Arabs.  They  were  at  the  mercy  of  these  men,  and,  for  the  sake 
of  self-preservation,  had  to  court  their  friendHness  and,  at  the 
same  time,  avoid  any  hostile  demonstration  against  the  slave- 
trade.  Many  of  the  native  chiefs  benefited  largely  by  the 
traffic,  selling  their  people  to  the  Arabs.  School  children, 
too,  as  soon  as  they  had  learned  a  little,  were  seized  and 
sold,  fetching  a  higher  price  than  the  untaught  native.  It 
soon  became  evident,  in  spite  of  the  sanguine  expectations 
of  some  of  the  brethren,  that  until  the  slave-trade  was 
considerably  checked  or  abolished  there  would  be  little 
hope  of  successful  mission-work. 

While  the  events  just  described  were  happening,  the 
Directors  had  sent  out  a  third  expedition,  consisting  of 
Mr.  A.  J.  Wookey  as  superintendent,  with  Dr.  Palmer  and 
David  Williams.     They  left  Zanzibar  in  June,  1880,  and, 


RAPID   CHANGES  IN  THE  STAFF  657 

after  the  usual  experiences  of  fever,  difficulties  with  carriers, 
and  hardships  by  the  way,  reached  Ujiji  on  October  3.     It 
was  there  decided  that  Williams  should  settle  at  Urambo 
with  Southon,  Palmer  at  Uguha  with  Griffith,  and  Wookey 
at  Ujiji  ;    whilst  Hore  arranged   to   visit   England,  partly 
with  the  object  of  getting  a  steamer  for  the  lake.     Wookey 
had  not  been  long  at  Ujiji  before  his  health  broke  down, 
and    under  Dr.   Palmer's  recommendation   he   decided    to 
return  to  England.     Wookey  strongly  advised  that   Ujiji, 
on  account  of   its  unhealthiness,  should  be  abandoned  as 
a  mission  station.     Hutley,also,  had  been  '  at  death's  door,' 
and  was  recommended  by  the  doctor  to  go  home.   W^ookey 
left  Ujiji   about   March,    1881,   and    Hutley   in   July.     Dr. 
Southon  exerted  his  influence  against  the  return  to  England 
of  these  two  brethren,  and  urged  that  they  would  recover 
their   health    by    removing    to    a    m.ore    elevated    region. 
Wookey  adhered  to  his  resolution  ;  but  Hutley  stayed  on 
at  Urambo  for  a  time,  and  partly  regained  his  health.      In 
June,  1881,  Palmer  himself,  having  suffered  a  severe  illness, 
came  to  the  conclusion  that  '  his  sphere  of  duty  did  not  lie 
in  a   malarious  country/  and   that  he   ought  to  return  to 
England,  although  of  opinion  that '  on  a  well-chosen  elevated 
site  Europeans  might  have  fair    health.'     Hutley,  during 
his  stay  at  Urambo,  built  a  house  for  Williams,  but  scarcely 
had  the  house  been  finished  when  Williams  died  suddenly 
from  sunstroke  in  September,   1881.     A  few  weeks  later 
Hutley  set  off  for  England,  thus  leaving  only  Southon  and 
Griffith  as  representatives  of  the  Society  in  Central  Africa, 
and  these  two  separated  by  200  miles,  or  more.     Yet,  in 
spite  of  repeated  defections  and  disasters,  Southon  was  '  not 
one  whit  dismayed  or  downhearted,'  and  believed  the  work 
would  still  go  on.     He  opened  a  school  for  boys,  tried  to 
teach  Christian  truth,  gave  constant  medical  and  surgical 
assistance  to  the  people,  attempted   to  teach   the   arts   of 
civilization,  and  spent  several  hours  with  Mirambo  every 
day.     Griffith,  also,  was  hopeful  of  his  work  in  Uguha,  but 
had    vast    difficulties    to    encounter    from    the    slave-trade 
fostered  by  the  Arabs,  and  from  the  superstition  and  witch- 
I.  U  u 


658  THE  MISSION  TO   CENTRAL  AFRICA 

craft  of  the  natives.  Writing  of  these  rapid  changes 
Mr.  Here  said  :  '  In  connection  with  the  failure  of  so  many 
men,  it  should  be  remembered  that  all  those  who  thus 
returned  are,  so  far  as  is  known,  still  living  (1892),  and 
engaged  in  various  spheres  of  the  work  in  parts  of  the  world 
for  which  their  constitutions  are  more  suitable.  The  death 
of  Mr.  Williams  at  Urambo  was  the  only  one  that  could  in 
any  way  be  ascribed  to  the  climate  of  South  Africa  ^.' 

The  disappointments  and  trials  just  described  stimulated 
rather  than  discouraged  the  faith  and  zeal  of  the  Directors 
and  their  supporters,  and  in  1882  a  fourth  expedition  was 
equipped.  It  consisted  of  Captain  Hore  as  leader,  he  now 
returning  to  Central  Africa,  W.  C.  Willoughby,  T.  F.  Shaw, 
A.  J.  Swann,  J.  H.  Dineen,  D.  P.  Jones,  A.  Brooks,  J.  Dunn, 
and  J.  Penry.  Mrs.  Hore  and  her  little  boy  were  also 
members  of  the  party.  It  was  the  largest  and  best  equipped 
expedition  that  had  been  sent  out,  and  Sir  John  Kirk 
expressed  his  opinion  that  its  mission  was  '  of  national 
importance.'  The  caravan  left  Zanzibar  in  detachments 
between  June  29  and  July  10,  1882.  Hore  and  Swann, 
having  accompanied  the  expedition  as  far  as  Mamboia, 
returned  to  Zanzibar  to  meet  the  sections  of  a  boat  for 
Tanganyika,  afterwards  called  the  Morning  Star.  They 
were  kept  waiting  at  Zanzibar  nearly  two  months.  The 
boat  upon  arrival  proved  a  disappointment.  The  builders 
had  failed  to  keep  to  their  time,  and  the  vessel  itself  was 
pronounced  by  experts  to  be  unsatisfactory  in  its  work- 
manship. Hore  and  Swann,  with  a  large  number  of  carriers, 
superintended  the  long  up-country  journey.  Nearly  all  the 
members  of  the  expedition,  and  Penry  in  particular,  suffered 
from  fever,  but  the  various  destinations  were  reached  with- 
out fatalities,  Hore  arriving  at  Ujiji  with  the  boat  on 
February  23,  1883. 

Whilst  the  different  members  of  the  new  expedition  were 
thus  making  the  long  and  toilsome  journeys  to  their 
respective  scenes  of  work,  a  fresh  touch  of  tragedy  was 
added  to  the  already  too  sombre  story  of  the  mission.     On 

*  Tanganyika:  Eleven  Years  in  Central  Africa,  p.  177. 


ACCIDENT  TO  DR.   SOUTHON  659 

June  24,  1882,  Dr.  Southon  was  accidentally  shot  in  the  arm 
by  one  of  his  native  attendants.  He  had  not  been  feelint^ 
well,  and  had  resolved  to  take  a  walk  to  the  river,  stay 
a  night  there,  and  return,  he  hoped,  refreshed  for  work. 
While  walking  by  the  river  in  the  evening  Uledi's  gun 
exploded,  and  the  bullet  passed  through  Dr.  Southon's  arm 
near  the  elbow.  He  managed  with  the  help  of  Uledi  to 
extemporize  a  tourniquet,  and  to  reach  his  tent.  The 
next  day  he  was  carried  back  to  Urambo.  Fortunately, 
Mr.  Copplestone  of  the  C.M.S.  was  at  that  very  time  on 
his  way  to  Urambo.  to  aid  Dr.  Southon  in  some  building 
work.  Messengers  were  sent  to  hasten  his  arrival.  About 
seventy-two  hours  after  the  accident  he  arrived,  and  what 
followed  can  best  be  told  by  extracts  from  letters  written 
at  the  time.  They  are  inserted  to  illustrate  the  risks  run 
and  the  pains  endured  by  some  of  our  missionaries  in 
Central  Africa  ;  and  also  to  exhibit  the  noble  spirit  of  this 
valiant  worker,  taken  all  too  soon  from  the  field  he  loved 
and  from  the  work  which  he  believed  God  was  going  to 
prosper. 

The  first  extracts  are  from  a  letter  to  his  brother,  dated 
Urambo.  July  3,  1882  : — 

'  Mr.  Copplestone  came  in  about  7  p.m.,  having  met 
Mirambo's  men  in  the  morning,  and  had  travelled  all  day 
so  as  to  be  with  me  that  day.  We  had  much  to  talk  of, 
and  I  assured  him  that  the  arm  must  be  amputated  in  the 
early  morning.  He  said  he  was  willing  to  do  his  best,  and 
leave  the  rest  in  God's  hands.  I  took  a  considerable 
quantity  of  morphia  during  the  night,  as  the  agony  was 
intense.  Friday  morning  early  Copplestone  and  I  had 
a  quiet  consultation  as  to  operating  immediately.  I  felt 
that  every  moment  was  hastening  on  the  gangrene,  and  the 
fact  that  I  was  even  then  getting  more  and  more  "  dazed  "  and 
unable  to  think  correctly  was  proof  that  something  should 
be  done  at  once.  Copplestone,  with  praiseworthy  devotion, 
was  ready  to  do  his  best,  and  so  we  immediately  went  into 
the  details  of  the  work  to  be  done.  Hames  could  give 
chloroform  on  the  screen  we  always  used,  so  I  had  every 

U  u  2 


66o  THE  MISSION  TO   CENTRAL  AFRICA 

confidence  in  that  department,  relying  on  God  that  no 
accident  should  occur.  I  then  gave  Copplestone  all  the 
details  I  could  think  of,  but,  in  my  half-unconscious  state, 
I  missed  many  items  of  value,  but  we  hoped  a  reading  of 
Erichsen's  Surgery  would  help  him  materially.  We  then 
went  into  the  other  room,  where  I  got  upon  the  table  and 
Hames  commenced  giving  the  chloroform.  It  took  a  long 
time  to  chloroform  me,  though  I  was  insensible  very  soon. 
Copplestone  says  it  was  two  hours  before  he  could  begin. 
However,  thank  God,  at  last  he  got  through,  and,  con- 
sidering he  never  did  anything  of  the  kind  before,  he  made 
an  excellent  job  of  it.  Well,  every  day  after  Saturday 
and  until  now  the  swelling  grew  less,  but,  owing  to 
the  very  exposed  state  of  the  bone  and  the  nerves, 
there  is  a  great  deal  of  pain,  and  I  am  constantly  under 
the  influence  of  morphia.  My  men  are  most  kind  and 
tender,  and  Mr.  Copplestone  is  assiduous  in  attending  to 
my  wants. 

'  I  am  writing  this  in  fits  and  starts  on  a  board  held 
against  my  knees,  but  it  is  hard  work,  as  the  morphia 
prevents  anything  like  thought,  and  my  hand,  eyes,  and 
head  are  heavy;  therefore,  pardon  all  my  irregularities. 

'  I  bless  God  ;  my  trust  in  Him  is  as  strong,  or  stronger, 
than  ever  ;  and,  if  He  allows  me  to  live,  I  will  do  Him 
good  service  yet — if  not  here,  in  some  other  part  of  His 
vineyard.  But,  oh !  if  He  calls  me  to  help  Mullens  and 
Thomson  and  others  gone  on  before,  how  gladly  will  I  , 
respond,  and  joyfully  '•  knock  off  work  "  here.' 

Unhappily,  no  helper  skilled  in  surgery  could  be  obtained, 
and  after  enduring  the  most  terrible  tortures  from  physical 
pain,  Dr.  Southon  induced  Mr.  Copplestone  to  try  and 
obtain  him  relief  by  a  second  operation.  In  a  letter  dated 
August  4,  the  latter  describes  his  brave  but  unsuccessful 
attempt  to  secure  this  end,  though  at  the  very  time  he  was 
himself  suffering  severely  from  fever  : — 

'  On  the  24th  I  went  in  early,  and  he  at  once  reminded  me 
of  the  "  terrible  task  "  I  had  before  me,  and  he  begged  me 
to  commence  as  soon  as  I  had  had  my  cocoa.     He  gave  me 


DEATH  OF  DR.   SOUTHON  66i 

what  instructions  he  could,  marked  out  how  he  wished  me  to 
cut  the  flaps,  and  about  8.30  he  was  removed  to  the  table. 
Before  we  began  to  administer  chloroform  he  engaged  in 
prayer,  so  full  of  hope  and  trust,  not  fearing  what  the  issues 
might  be.  Dr.  Bohn  was  of  great  help  in  seeing  that  the 
chloroform  was  administered  regularly,  which  left  me  free 
to  my  work.  I  had  great  difficulty  in  securing  one  artery, 
which  difficult  part  of  the  work  the  first  time  gave  me  no 
trouble.  By  12.30  p.m.  the  arm  was  bandaged,  but  I  saw 
that  he  did  not  come  round  so  quickly,  and  when  he  became 
conscious  he  wished  for  chloroform  again,  but  I  had  him 
removed  to  his  bed  first.  He  remained  under  the  effects 
of  chloroform  during  the  day,  but  towards  evening,  in  my 
absence  from  the  room,  he  took  off  the  bandages  to  look  at 
it,  and  found  all  right,  except  the  drainage  tube,  which  was 
a  little  long.  I  considered  then  it  would  be  a  miracle  if  he 
pulled  through,  but  I  knew  that  nothing  was  too  hard  for 
the  Lord,  and  He  was  over-ruling  all.' 

But  all  was  in  vain.  He  gradually  sank,  and  on  July  26, 
1 882, his  brave  spirit  took  its  flight.  With  our  limited  faculties 
it  seems  hard  to  understand  how  the  one  who  had  so  far 
most  energetically  and  most  hopefully  begun  the  good  work, 
and  who,  believing  a  rich  harvest  was  in  store,  thought  he 
even  saw  its  first  promising  signs,  should  have  been  called 
away  just  when  apprenticeship  was  over,  and  the  full  power 
of  work  had  been  acquired. 

The  cordial  reception  afforded  to  the  new  workers  by 
Mirambo  and  other  chiefs  seemed  to  brighten  the  prospects 
of  the  mission.  Mirambo  said  he  had  a  good  many  hills 
round  Urambo,and  he  wanted  an  Englishman  on  everyone 
of  them.  He  also  wanted  to  live  in  peace  with  native 
tribes,  but  feared  he  might  have  to  go  to  war.  But  just 
when  the  reinforcements  were  settling  down  to  their  new  and 
untried  duties,  the  now  only  too  familiar  sequence  of  disasters 
again  began,  and  once  more  the  prospects  of  the  mission 
became  enshrouded  in  gloom.  Penry,  with  health  broken 
down,  left  Urambo,  on  his  way  back  to  England,  but  died 
on  the  journey  on  April   21,  1883,  and  was  buried  by  the 


662  THE  MISSION  TO   CENTRAL   AFRICA 

side  of  Dr.  Mullens  at  Mpwapvva.  Willoughby,  after 
frequent  attacks  of  fever,  left  Urambo  May  j5,  1883,  and 
returned  to  England  ;  and  Dineen,  after  four  months'  illness, 
died  at  Uguha,  July  25,  1883.  In  February,  1884,  the 
mission  house  at  Urambo  and  most  of  its  contents  were 
destroyed  by  hghtning.  On  March  6,  1884,  Dunn  died  at 
Uguha. 

A  fifth  expedition,  consisting  of  John  Harris,  Bowen 
Rees,  and  Dr.  Laird,  started  from  Quillimane  in  July,  1884, 
intending  to  travel  by  the  route  via  Nyassa.  They  had 
not  proceeded  far  up  the  river  when  news  came  that  it  was 
dangerous  to  go  further,  owing  to  a  rebellion  of  the  natives 
against  the  Portuguese.  Harris  determined  to  go  on  to 
Maruru,  and  help  the  Blantyre  Mission  and  other  Euro- 
peans in  their  defence  of  the  place  against  an  expected 
siege  ;  but  the  rest  of  the  party  returned  to  Quillimane. 
Nearly  all  their  goods  had  been  spoiled  by  water  from 
leaky  boats,  and  otherwise  they  were  in  a  desperate  plight. 
They  then  made  their  way  to  Natal,  and  Laird,  in  ill 
health,  returned  to  England.  Finally,  Hore,  with  his  wife 
and  child,  and  Rees  met  at  Zanzibar,  whence  they  travelled 
to  the  interior.  Ujiji  was  reached  on  January  11,  1885, 
and  Harris,  after  many  adventures,  arrived  at  Niamkolo  in 
December,  1884. 

Ujiji  was  now  abandoned  as  a  mission  station,  and 
Kavala  Island  selected  in  its  stead.  After  great  delay  in 
transit,  all  the  sections  of  the  steamer  Good  News  arrived 
at  the  lake,  and  she  was  launched  on  March  3,  1885.  The 
engineer,  named  Roxburgh,  who  had  been  employed  to 
build  her,  died  shortly  afterwards — May  18.  In  view  of 
the  numerous  losses  by  death  and  retirement,  Jones  of 
Uguha  advocated  the  withdrawal  of  the  Society  from 
Central  Africa,  a  proposal  not  endorsed  by  his  brethren. 
Harris  died  at  Niamkolo,  May  29,  1885,  and  Jones  and 
Rees,  about  two  months  later,  returned  to  England  in  bad 
health.  Hore,  after  nine  years'  active  service,  began  to  hint 
at  an  early  retirement.  He  and  his  wife,  however,  opened 
a  school  and  carried  on  services  at  Kavala.     In  July,  1886, 


PROGRESS   UP  TO   1890  663 

the  mission  was  strengthened  by  the  arrival  of  Mr.  Alex- 
ander Carson,  an  engineer,  at  Kavala,  and  of  Mr.  G.  H.  Lea 
in  September.  The  latter  complained  that  the  Directors' 
instructions  were  not  sufficiently  explicit.  This  may  have 
been  partly  due  to  the  difficulty  experienced  by  the  home 
officials  in  grasping  the  conditions  of  life  and  work  in 
Central  Africa,  but  it  was  also  not  unfrequently  due  to 
idiosyncrasies  on  the  part  of  the  missionaries  themselves. 
The  next  arrival  was  Dr.  Tomory,  who  reached  Kavala 
June  6,  1^87,  but  who,  after  remaining  two  months,  reported 
his  '  utter  failure  of  health,'  and  in  September  left  for 
England.  Lea  also  returned  home  in  June  of  the  same 
year. 

The  Annual  Report  for  i8qi  contains  a  ten  years'  sum- 
mary of  Central  African  work  from  the  pen  of  Mr.  D.  P. 
Jones.  Some  passages  from  this  set  forth  very  clearly 
what  had  been  attempted  and  accomplished  during  the 
years  1887  to  1891  : — 

'  In  May,  1887,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jones  and  Mr.  Wright  left 
England  for  Fwambo — an  upland  district  on  the  plateau 
between  Lakes  Nyassa  and  Tanganyika,  situated  about 
sixty  miles  from  the  latter — having  been  instructed  to 
establish  a  new  station  at  that  place.  They  arrived  about 
the  end  of  October.  A  difficulty  having  been  hitherto 
experienced  in  finding  a  healthy  spot  in  the  immediate 
vicinity  of  the  lake,  and  the  past  experience  of  the  mission 
having  been  such  that  in  deaths  and  retirements  from  the 
field  they  lost  yearly  an  average  of  three  men,  it  was 
decided  to  try  an  elevated  region,  hence  the  establishing 
a  station  at  Fwambo. 

'  Towards  the  end  of  October,  1888,  the  mission  was  rein- 
forced by  the  arriv^al  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Swann,  Dr.  Mather, 
and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hemans  at  the  lake,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Shaw  and  Mr.  Draper  at  Urambo.  Mr.  Swann  having  been 
appointed  superintendent  of  the  marine  department  in 
place  of  Captain  Hore,  he,  with  his  wife,  proceeded  to  Kavala. 
Dr.  Mather  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hemans  settled  at  Fwambo. 
Immediately  after  the  arrival  of  Messrs.  Shaw  and  Draper 


664  THE  MISSION  TO  CENTRAL  AFRICA 

at  Urambo,  Mr.  Brooks  left  for  England  to  avail  himself  of 
a  well-earned  rest.  Nearing  the  coast,  probably  not  sus- 
pecting danger,  although  aware  of  hostilities  between  the 
coast  Arabs  and  the  Germans  (for  the  English  were  even 
then  regarded  as  friendly,  and  the  natives  had  always  dis- 
tinguished them  from  the  former),  he  was  fired  at  by  a  band 
of  Arab  followers  and  killed. 

'In  1889  the  committee,  in  accordance  with  instructions 
from  home,  directed  Messrs.  Swann  and  Carson  to  look  for 
a  suitable  harbour  at  the  south  end  of  the  lake,  with  a  view 
to  removing  thither  the  head-quarters  of  the  marine  depart- 
ment, it  having  been  thought  advisable  to  take  this  step  in 
order  that  the  brethren  whose  occupation  forced  them  to  fix 
their  residence  in  near  proximity  to  the  lake  might  avail 
themselves  of  short  sojourns  at  Fwambo,  the  healthiness  of 
which  station  had  now  been  proved  beyond  doubt.  The 
brethren  finding  that  Niamkolo  would  in  every  way  prove 
suitable  for  a  marine  department  station,  building  was 
commenced  there  by  Mr.  Carson  about  the  middle  of  the 
year,  and  shortly  after  Mr.  Swann  removed  south  with  the 
Society's  property,  leaving  Kavala  in  charge  of  a  competent 
Swahili  man. 

•The  year  1889  and  part  of  1890  will  be  long  remem- 
bered by  the  members  of  this  mission  as  a  time  when  they 
were  shut  pff  completely  from  the  civilized  world.  For 
over  a  year  they  were  without  European  provisions  (except- 
ing a  small  consignment  obtained  from  the  African  Lakes 
Company,  divided  between  them),  and  for  the  same  period 
were  without  any  communication  from  home.  We  have 
reason  to  be  thankful,  however,  that  in  all  this  time  our 
spirits  kept  up,  our  energies  did  not  flag,  nor  was  our  work 
on  that  account  in  any  way  interfered  with.  Suffering 
from  the  consequences  of  small-pox,  and  having  been 
advised  by  Dr.  Mather  to  return  to  England,  Mr.  Wright 
left  Fwambo  in  June,  1890.  About  the  end  of  October 
Dr.  Mather  again  left  Fwambo  for  Niamkolo,  and  Mr. 
Carson  leaving  for  home  about  the  same  time  after  five 
years'  service.  Dr.  Mather  took  his  place  for  the  time  being. 


WORK  AT  FWAMBO  665 

'  At  the  three  stations  of  the  Tanganyika  Mission — viz. 
Urambo,  Niamkolo,  and  Fwambo — work  is  not  carried  on 
upon  an  extensive  scale  as  yet,  nor  can  it  be  said  to  have 
assumed  altogether  a  systematic  form  ;  but  it  is  carried  on 
nevertheless,  and  with  reasonable  results.  At  Niamkolo 
a  school  has  been  held  regularly  and  with  a  fair  attendance 
from  the  day  of  their  settling  there.  The  result  is  entirely 
satisfactory,  although  the  scholars  arc  not  yet  very  ad- 
vanced. Some,  however,  have  learnt  to  read  and  write  as 
well  as  work  out  sums  in  simple  addition  and  subtraction. 
Gospel  work  is  in  its  infancy  ;  but  their  having  a  good- 
sized  village  under  their  protection  secures  them  a  large 
attendance  in  their  Sunday  services,  although  nothing 
approaching  compulsion  is  used,  not  even  the  observance 
of  the  Sabbath  being  forced  upon  them. 

'  At  Fwambo,  also,  school -work  has  been  carried  on  for 
over  two  years,  but  not  regularly.  Moreover,  a  good  deal 
of  the  teaching  here  can  be  said  to  have,  in  some  respects, 
been  wasted — for  only  those  who  were  working  at  the 
station  could  be  taught — the  villagers  having  not  yet 
learnt  to  appreciate  the  school  for  its  own  sake,  and  those 
who  came  to  work  did  not  usually  remain  over  a  fortnight, 
this  time  sufficing  to  earn  sufficient  calico  (four  yards)  to 
last  them  a  long  while.  By  the  time  they  returned,  there- 
fore, the  previous  lessons  had  been  entirely  forgotten,  and 
a  fresh  start  had  to  be  made  with  a  similar  result. 

'  Sunday  services  have  never  been  largely  attended. 
unless  a  caravan  or  a  number  of  men  seeking  work  hap- 
pened to  be  on  the  station,  the  audience  usually  consisting 
of  personal  servants.  The  teaching  is  done  here  in  the 
native  language  ;  and  although  the  brethren  have  not  yet 
attained  proficiency,  the  natives  can  better  appreciate  the 
not  very  idiomatic  and  ill-pronounced  language  than 
a  translation.  On  the  whole,  considering  that  every  mis- 
sionary in  this  country  has  to  attend  to  many  kinds  of 
work  other  than  that  for  which  he  is  specially  sent  out, 
becoming  teacher,  carpenter,  labourer,  and  even  cook  and 
housekeeper   by   turns,  and  also   the    fact  of  the  mission 


666  THE  MISSION  TO   CENTRAL   AFRICA 

having  had  to  pass  through  fiery  ordeals,  not  to  mention 
the  indifference  and  apathy  of  natives  to  any  kind  of 
improvement,  there  can  be  no  question  as  to  the  progress 
of  the  mission  having  been  entirely  satisfactory. 

*  I  think  I  may  venture  to  say  we  are  now  permanently 
settled,  although  one  cannot  but  be  wary  of  making 
a  statement  of  that  kind  when  he  looks  back  upon  the 
continuous  wanderings  and  ever-changing  circumstances 
so  characteristic  of  the  past  history  of  this  mission.  It  is 
a  significant  fact,  however,  that  whereas  in  former  years 
deaths  and  retirements  owing  to  ill-health  were  of  constant 
occurrence,  during  the  last  three  years  there  has  not  been 
one  death  due  to  the  unhealthiness  of  the  climate  ;  and  the 
only  retirement  (that  of  Mr.  Wright)  was  due  rather  to  an 
exceptional  cause  than  the  effects  of  fever  consequent  upon 
malarious  surroundings.' 

Captain  Hore,  with  the  Directors'  permission,  had  left 
the  mission  in  June,  1888,  and  after  a  deputation  tour  in 
Australasia  in  1890  severed  his  connection  with  the  Society, 
with  good  wishes  on  both  sides.  He,  of  all  who  had  been 
connected  with  the  mission,  best  endured  the  stress  and 
strain  of  the  climate  and  life  in  Central  Africa.  But  in 
1893  he  resumed  work  in  the  Society  s  service,  and  was 
appointed  first  officer  of  the  new  mission  steamer  John 
Williams.  In  September,  1894,  he  succeeded  Captain 
Turpie  as  chief  in  command. 

The  narrative  contained  in  the  preceding  pages,  without 
going  into  great  detail,  has,  it  is  hoped;  given  on  the  one 
hand  a  true  conception  of  what  has  been  accomplished  in 
Central  Africa,  and,  on  the  other,  a  just  appreciation  of  the 
mistakes  so  frequently  made  and  so  severely  punished. 
I'erhaps  the  best  picture  of  the  state  of  affairs  which 
now  obtains  is  given  in  the  Chronicle  for  October,  1892. 
An  article  in  that  number  gives  a  cheering  account  of  the 
state  of  the  work  sixteen  years  after  its  commencement : — 

*  Names  that  were  once  prominent'  in  our  reports  from 
the  Lake  Tanganyika  Mission— such  as  Ujiji,  Mtowa,  and 
Kavala    Island — no    longer   appear.       Owing   to    changes, 


WORK  AT  NIAMKOLO  667 

shifting  population,  and  the  conveniences  found  down  at 
the  south  end  of  the  lake,  these  more  northern  and  central 
stations  have  been  given  up.  Niamkolo  now  fills  the  place 
formerly  taken  by  Ujiji,  and  subsequently  by  Kavala 
Island.     Mr.  Swann  reported  in  1891  : 

'  '*  Our  village  has  nearly  doubled  in  number  and  size,  and 
the  experiment  of  making  villages  of  our  own  has  more 
than  fulfilled  my  expectations.  I  believe  that  the  great 
fault  on  most  mission  stations  has  been  the  neglect  of  work 
amongst  women.  Mrs.  Swann  has  conducted  a  girls' 
school  regularly,  and  I  can  truly  say  the  progress  they 
make  is  very  cheering  in  reading,  writing,  and  sewing  ;  also, 
there  is  a  growing  desire  to  be  better  clothed.  The  boys 
can  now  understand  what  they  read  in  the  New  Testament 
■ — i.  e.  they  know  how  to  connect  the  words,  and  can 
answer  questions  fairly  satisfactorily.  Kalulu,  our  first 
convert,  has,  up  to  the  present,  shown  a  decided  attachment 
to  his  religion,  and  has,  by  repeated  acts,  shown  to  his 
friends  that  more  than  mere  desire  to  please  man  actuates 
him.  He  is  a  bright  example,  and  a  source  of  joy  to  us 
all.  We  were  rejoiced  to  add  two  others  to  the  young 
church  during  the  year.  Rev.  D.  P.  Jones  found  them  far 
behind  Kalulu  in  knowledge,  but  hesitated  to  quench  the 
smoking  flax,  and  so  baptized  them.  One  is  a  sincere  lad, 
and  is  doing  well  ;  the  other  fell  amongst  bad  natives,  was 
tempted,  and  fell  grievously.  Besides  the  schools  and 
Sunday  service,  we  get  many  visitors  from  long  distances 
who  listen  to  all  we  can  tell  them.  In  this  manner  seed  is 
being  sown," 

'  At  Fwambo,  or,  since  the  permanent  site  of  the  mission 
has  been  selected,  Kawimbi,  as  it  is  called,  in  consequence 
of  the  shifting  of  the  station  a  few  miles  to  a  more  commo- 
dious site,  the  work  has  been  to  some  extent  checked,  and 
building  necessities  have  overriden  everything  else.  But 
the  missionaries  have  secured  what  bids  fair  to  become  a 
strong  centre.     The  Rev.  D.  P.  Jones  reported  in  1891  : 

'"Towards  the  beginning  of  July  I  resumed  school- 
work,   school  having   been  suspended   from  the  time    wc 


668  THE  MISSION  TO   CENTRAL  AFRICA 

settled  here  until  then,  owing  to  the  want  of  a  schoolroom. 
Sunday  services  had  been  held  hitherto  in  the  verandah  of 
our  dwelling-house,  but  from  that  time  our  spacious  school- 
room served  us  for  both  purposes.  About  this  period  also 
natives  began  to  build  here,  having  decided  to  settle  around 
us.  These  became  the  nucleus  of  a  mission  village,  and 
have  now  increased  (including  women  and  children)  to  the 
number  of  i  20.  Having  many  buildings  to  erect,  we  con- 
tinued to  engage  people  from  neighbouring  villages  until 
the  end  of  the  dry  season  ;  but  from  that  time  we  have 
only  employed  such  as  are  living  beside  us,  and  as  they 
continue  to  increase  we  shall  not  henceforth  require  any 
other.  These  have  now,  therefore,  become  the  objects  of 
our  attention — our  temporal  charge  as  well  as  our  spiritual 
flock.  They  all  attend  our  Sunday  services  without  excep- 
tion, and  thus  hear  the  Gospel  continually,  but  none  of 
them  have  as  yet  been  visibly  impressed,  although  I  have 
reason  to  believe  that  a  gradual  change  is  stealing  over 
them,  and  that  their  old  spiritual  and  moral  ideas  are 
slowly  giving  way  to  the  new  and  better  ones  held  up  to 
them  both  in  our  preaching  and  in  our  lives. 

'  The  outcome  of  my  language  work  can  be  stated 
briefly  to  be  the  production  of  a  small  Kimambwe  gram- 
mar, and  English-Kimambwe  and  Kimambwe-English 
vocabularies,  together  with  the  translation  of  a  few  chapters 
from  the  Gospel  of  Mark.  The  grammar  and  vocabularies, 
having  been  approved  of  by  the  committee,  will  shortly  be 
printed. 

'lo  sum  up,  we  cannot,  as  yet,  point  to  large  congre- 
gations or  established  Christian  communities  ;  still,  our 
Central  African  missionaries  seem  now  to  be  workin^r  on 
permanent  lines.  The  health  of  the  stations  is  much 
improved,  and  we  must  patiently  continue  the  work  of 
preparing  the  ground  and  casting  in  the  seed,  and  wait 
for  the  promised  harvest,  which  will  surely  come.' 

The  large  amount  of  money  spent  on  the  Good  News 
seemed  almost  thrown  away.  It  is  true,  she  made  several 
voyages  up  and  down  the  lake,  thus  bringing  Mr.  Swann 


NATIVE   CONVERTS  66g 

and  other  missionaries  into  friendly  relations  with  native 
tribes  and  with  the  Arabs,  and  she  was  also  useful  in  the 
conveyance  of  mails.  But  experience  proving  that  she  was 
too  costly,  she  was  sold  for  £i,']'p  to  the  African  Lakes 
Company  in  1^94.  This  was  an  unsatisfactory  close  to 
a  scheme  v/hich  appeared  admirably  conceived,  but  which, 
like  so  many  African  enterprises,  on  experience  proved 
unworkable. 

The  baptism  of  the  first  Central  African  convert,  Kalulu 
by  name,  took  place  at  Fwambo  in  January.  1891.  Two 
others,  from  Niamkolo,  were  received  towards  the  end  of 
the  year;  two  more  in  April,  1892  ;  eight  in  August  of  the 
same  year;  twelve  in  1893  ;  and,  reckoning  some  who  had 
been  suspended  or  dismissed  for  bad  conduct,  there  were 
in  all,  at  the  end  of  1893,  about  twenty. 

Mr.  Swann,  who  had  acquired  considerable  influence 
over  Arabs  and  natives,  undertook  political  work  for  the 
British  commissioner  in  1890,  and  again  transacted  political 
business  in  1892.  On  his  way  home  on  furlough  in  1893 
he  wrote  to  the  Directors,  hinting  at  his  approaching  resig- 
nation, and  in  1 894  he  accepted  a  Government  appointment. 

The  tangible  results  of  the  mission,  so  far  as  statistics 
go,  are  not  very  encouraging.  Between  the  years  1877  and 
1893  thirty-six  missionaries — clerical,  medical,  and  artisan 
— were  appointed.  Of  these,  eleven  died  and  fourteen 
retired,  in  most  cases  after  a  very  brief  spell  of  service. 
The  total  cost  of  the  work  during  this  period  was  at  the 
lowest  calculation  ;^40,oco.  The  number  of  converts,  by 
the  most  liberal  calculation,  was  only  twenty.  That  is, 
upon  the  financial  method  of  reckoning,  each  convert  has 
cost  ;^2,oco.  But  every  intelligent  student  of  missions 
knows  that  this  method  of  measuring  results  is  absurd. 
Not  so  the  man  in  the  street.  And  not  so  even  warm- 
hearted friends,  who  are  sometimes  as  impatient  of  results 
in  the  way  of  conversion  as  they  are  ignorant  of  local 
conditions. 

There  is  no  doubt  the  Directors  sanctioned  the  mission 
without  any  true  conception  of  the  magnitude  of  the  task 


670  THE  MISSION  TO  CENTRAL   AFRICA 

they  were  undertaking  They  were,  almost  necessarily, 
ignorant  of  the  climate,  of  the  peculiarities  of  the  country, 
of  the  nature  of  the  work.  Offers  of  vessels  and  steamers, 
if  they  would  meet  the  expense  of  conveying  them  to  the 
lake  and  maintaining  them  there,  were  tempting,  and  diffi- 
cult to  resist.  Experience  shows  they  ought  to  have  been 
resisted  ;  but  it  is  only  in  the  hard  school  of  experience 
that  these  lessons  can  be  learned.  There  is  something  in 
the  Central  African  climate  which  renders  it  a  deadly  foe, 
first  to  the  physical  constitution  of  many  men,  and  through 
the  physical  to  the  moral  and  spiritual  nature  of  others. 
About  thirty  per  cent,  of  the  workers  died  ;  about  forty  per 
cent,  proved  unequal  to  the  strain.  In  some  of  these  cases 
the  breakdown  in  health  was  complete,  leaving  no  alterna- 
tive but  retreat.  In  some  the  fever,  and  strain,  and  dis- 
comfort broke  down  the  moral  fibre ;  and  men  who  had 
done,  and  who  have  continued  to  do,  good  work  elsewhere 
were  complete  failures  here.  In  other  cases — few  and  far 
between,  it  may  be  — a  short  stay  in  Central  Africa  was 
sufficient  to  prove  that  they  were  unfit  for  mission  work 
there  or  anywhere  else. 

The  Central  African  Mission  is  one  out  of  many  proofs 
that  only  by  a  self-sacrifice  like  the  Master's  will  the 
Church  ever  fulfil  His  great  command,  'Go  ye  into  all 
the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel.'  A  beginning  in  this 
very  hard  and  very  dark  field  has  been  made.  Only  a 
beginning.  Three  stations  ;  a  handful  of  schools  ;  a  few 
books  and  tracts.  Yet  a  true  Christian  instinct  has  rooted 
Central  Africa  deeply  in  the  affection,  faith,  and  prayer  of 
the  Church,  and  there,  as  elsewhere,  in  time  the  little  one 
shall  become  a  thousand. 

[Authorities.— Letters,  Official  Repoits,  and  Annual    Reports;    Tanoa- 
nyika:  Eleven  Years  iji  Central  Africa,  by  E.  C.  Hore.] 


MADAGASCAR 


V 


'  And  when  they  had  preached  the  gospel  to  that  city,  and  had  taught  many, 
they  returned  again  to  Lystra,  and  to  Iconium,  and  Antioch,  confirming  the 
souls  of  the  disciples,  and  exhorting  them  to  continue  in  the  faith,  and  that  we 
must  through  much  tribulation  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God.'— Acts  xiv. 

21,   22. 

'  Although  she  had  returned  her  Bible  and  other  books  which  she  had  had 
in  her  possession  at  the  time,  she  retained  a  few  tracts,  and  among  them,  one 
on  the  Holy  Spirit;  and  as  she  had  now  but  little  hope  of  her  life  being 
spared,  she  was  very  diligently  employed  in  examining  her  "state  before  God, 
that  death  might  not  come  upon  her  by  surprise.  She  derived  much  consola- 
tion from  the  tract  named,  and  especially  from  the  expressions  uttered  by  some 
humble  and  devout  Christian,  "I  will  cast  myself  at  the  feet  of  Jesus,  and  if 
I  perish,  I  will  perish  there";  to  which  some  one  had  replied,  "And  if  you 
perish  there,  you  will  be  the  first  that  ever  did  ;  for  sooner  shall  the  heavens 
and  the  earth  pass  away  than  the  Saviour  reject  any  one  coming  to  Him." ' 
— Kafaravavys  Experience  in  1835. 

'  Gradually  the  Christians  sought  out  their  fellow  believers,  using  the  utmost 
caution  before  disclosing  their  own  feelings  to  others.  Sometimes  a  recognition 
was  secured  by  reference  to  Jer.  xxxviii.  15, — "  If  I  declare  it  unto  thee,  wilt 
thou  not  surely  put  me  to  death  ?  "  To  which  the  answer  would  be  a  naming 
of  the  following  verse :  "  As  the  Lord  liveth,  that  made  us  this  soul,  I  will 
not  put  thee  to  death,  neither  will  I  give  thee  into  the  hand  of  these  men  that 
seek  thy  life."  The  Christians  ventured  afterwards  to  meet  secretly  in  their 
own  houses  or  in  those  of  the  missionaries,  but  more  frequently  they  met  on  the 
summits  of  solitary  mountains,  whence  they  could  survey  the  rocky  hills,  and 
brown  or  grassy  plains,  and  observe  the  movements  of  men  at  a  great  distance.' 
—  The  Martyr  Church  in  Madagascar ^  p.  107. 

'  Be  thou  faithful  unto  death,  and  I  will  give  thee  a  crown  of  Life.' — Rev. 
ii.  10. 


I>Avii)  Griffiths 
(Madagascar) 


\NDRIAr.II3ELO 
Madajjascar) 


William   Kllis.  in  18= 
( MailajaHcar). 


.  J.  Fkkkman 
(Madatjascarj 


CHAPTER    XXVIII 

MADAGASCAR:     1818-1835 

The  Great  African  Island,  as  Madagascar  is  frequently 
called,  lies  off  the  south-eastern  coast  of  Africa,  and  may 
in  very  remote  ages  have  even  been  a  part  of  it.  But  the 
people  are  not  wholly  an  African  people,  and  the  fauna 
and  flora  are  so  different  as  to  indicate  a  long  separation. 
The  name  Madagascar  is  of  unknown  foreign  origin,  and 
is  due  probably  to  Marco  Polo.  The  native  names  are 
'  The  Universe'  or  '  What  is  in  the  Midst  of  the  Floods.' 
Between  island  and  continent  flows  the  Mozambique 
Channel,  240  miles  wide  at  its  narrowest  point.  The  island 
is  nearly  1,000  miles  long,  extending  from  12°  2'  to  25°  18' 
south  latitude,  and  has  an  average  breadth  east  and  west 
of  250  miles,  in  some  parts  reaching  a  width  of  350  miles. 
It  is  supposed  to  contain  about  230,000  square  miles. 
The  interior  consists  of  an  elevated  plateau,  3,000  to  5,occ 
feet  above  the  sea,  extending  from  13°  to  24°  south  latitude. 
This  region  is  about  700  miles  from  north  to  south,  and  150 
miles  east  to  west,  and  contains  an  area  of  about  ico,cco 
miles.     In  this  district  Antananarivo,  the  capital,  is  situated. 

The  people  are  a  mixed  race,  Malayo-Polynesians,  with 
a  considerable  African  strain.  How,  while  the  island  lies 
so  near  the  continent,  the  predominant  element  in  the 
people  came  to  be  Malayan  is  one  of  the  many  ethno- 
graphical puzzles  of  the  world.  The  chief  tribes  are  the 
Hova,  Betsileo,  Bara,  Sihanaka,  Betsimisaraka  and  Saka- 
lava.  The  Hova  is  the  most  important  tribe,  inhabiting 
Imerina,  the  central  province.  They  are  purer  Malays  than 
any  of  the  other  tribes.     South  of  the   Hova,  occupying 

1.  X  X 


674  MADAGASCAR:   1S18-1835 

another  part  of  the  central  uplands,  are  the  Betsileo.  Until 
the  Hova  under  Radama  I  established  a  partial  headship 
the  island  was  the  scene  of  constant  inter-tribal  warfare. 

Madagascar,  almost  from  the  foundation  of  the  Society, 
occupied  the  attention  of  the  Directors.  At  the  annual 
meeting  for  1797,  'Several  memoirs  were  presented,  pro- 
posing missions  to  Surat,  Madagascar  .  .  .  which  were 
received  with  approbation,  and  referred  to  the  consideration 
of  the  Directors.'  Vanderkemp  kept  ever  before  his  mind 
a  mission  to  Madagascar,  and  plans  for  its  execution 
occupied  the  closing  months  of  his  life.  Mr.  John  Le 
Brun,  a  native  of  Jersey,  who  had  been  educated  at  Gos- 
port,  was  sent  out  to  begin  work  either  in  Mauritius  or 
Madagascar,  as  God  might  lead  him.  He  decided  to 
remain  in  Mauritius,  and  begin  missionary  work  there  in 
1 8 14.  During  the  first  years  of  Mr.  Le  Brun's  missionary 
labour  Port  Louis  served  as  the  base  from  which  Mada- 
gascar was  approached. 

The  missionaries  who  first  landed  on  the  island  in  con- 
nection with  the  Society — names  ever  memorable  in 
Malagasy  history — were  David  Jones  and  Thomas  Bevan. 
They  were  young  Welshmen  who  had  been  educated  at 
Neuaddlwyd,  in  Cardiganshire,  in  a  seminary  then  under 
the  charge  of  Dr.  Phillips,  a  man  of  high  reputation  both 
as  preacher  and  scholar,  and  earnestly  concerned  about 
Christian  missions.  Dr.  Phillips  had  been  greatly  moved 
by  the  needs  of  Madagascar,  and  one  day,  after  describing 
to  the  students  a  dream  which  he  had  had  on  the  subject, 
he  said  :  '  Now,  who  will  go  as  a  missionary  to  Madagascar  ?  ' 
Jones  and  Bevan  at  once  responded,  each  for  himself: 
'  I  will  go.'  They  were  accepted  by  the  Society,  sent  for 
a  time  to  Gosport,  and  ordained  at  Neuaddlwyd  on 
August  21,  1817.  They  sailed  on  February  9,  1818,  and 
reached  Mauritius  on  July  3.  They  left  Port  Louis  on 
August  8,  to  judge,  after  inspection  of  the  island,  what 
prospect  there  was  of  being  able  to  begin  missionary  work 
there.  They  reached  Tamatave  on  August  18,  and  after 
a  short  stay  they  returned  to  Port  Louis,  greatly  encouraged, 


DISASTROUS  BEGINNING  675 

on  October  9.  On  November  16  Mr.  Jones  and  his  family 
sailed  for  Tamatave,  arriving  on  November  20.  Mr.  Bevan 
did  not  reach  Tamatave  till  January  6,  1819.  Then,  in- 
stead of  finding,  as  he  had  hoped,  that  Mr.  Jones  had 
made  a  good  beginning  and  was  able  to  extend  a  helpful 
welcome  to  him  and  his  wife,  he  discovered  that  Mrs.  Jones 
and  her  child  had  died,  and  that  Mr.  Jones  himself  was 
most  dangerously  ill  with  fever.  At  this  disastrous  in- 
telligence Mr.  Bevan  seemed  to  lose  all  heart.  His  child 
died  on  January  20,  he  himself  on  January  31,  and  his 
wife  on  February  3.  So  that  in  less  than  three  months, 
of  a  missionary  party  consisting  of  six  souls,  only  one  was 
left  alive,  and  he  at  death's  door.  Once  again  needful 
experience  was  dearly  bought.  The  missionaries  had 
landed  at  the  wrong  season,  and  were  but  very  imperfectly 
equipped  for  a  struggle  with  so  dire  a  foe  as  Malagasy 
fever.  Mr.  Jones  slowly  fought  his  way  back  to  a  measure 
of  strength,  bravely  struggled  for  a  time  to  continue  his 
work,  experienced  hostility  and  hindrance  from  some  resi- 
dents in  Tamatave  who  ought  to  have  aided  him,  and 
finally  in  July,  1H19,  returned  to  Mauritius.  At  Belle 
Ombre  he  slowly  recruited  his  strength,  and  on  September  4, 
1820,  he  was  able  to  return  to  Madagascar. 

The  ruling  chief  in  Madagascar  at  this  time  was  Radama  I, 
with  whom  in  1817  the  British  Government,  through  Sir 
Robert  Farquhar,  Governor  of  Mauritius,  had  entered  into 
a  treaty  of  friendship  and  commerce,  with  the  object  also  of 
putting  an  end  to  the  export  of  slaves  from  Madagascar. 
This  treaty  lapsed  soon  after  its  execution,  but  Sir  Robert 
Farquhar  was  very  anxious  to  renew  it.  He  was  a  friend 
of  missions,  and  encouraged  Mr.  Jones  to  accompany  his 
agent,  Mr.  Hastie,  who  was  appointed  to  Antananarivo 
for  the  purpose  of  re-establishing,  if  possible,  the  treaty, 
and  to  act  there  as  British  resident.  In  the  light  of  sad 
experience  it  was  believed  that  the  plateau  on  which  the 
capital  stood  would  be  a  much  healthier  residence  for 
Europeans  than  the  malarious  coast  lands. 

Mr.  Hastie  and   his   party,  accompanied  by  Mr.  Jones, 

X  X  2 


676  MADAGASCAR :  1S18-1835 

reached  Tamatave  September  4,  1820.  and  arrived  at 
Antananarivo  on  October  3.  Radama  received  them 
graciously,  re-enacted  the  treaty,  and  then,  upon  learning 
the  true  object  of  Mr.  Jones'  visit,  sent  a  letter  to  the 
Directors,  in  which  he  said,  '  I  request  you  to  send  me,  if 
convenient,  as  many  missionaries  as  you  may  deem  proper, 
together  with  their  families,  if  they  desire  it ;  provided  you 
send  skilful  artisans  to  make  my  people  workmen  as 
well  as  good  Christians.'  This  letter,  which  is  still  in  the 
Society's  museum,  is  dated  October  29,  1820.  At  this 
time  Radama  was  about  thirty  years  old.  He  had  acquired 
some  knowledge  of  the  French  language,  and  had  also 
a  rudimentary  acquaintance  with  English.  He  was  a  man 
of  power,  with  sufficient  intelligence  to  perceive  the  benefits 
which  education  and  contact  with  civilized  peoples  would 
confer  upon  his  own  people.  He  was  also  very  eager  for 
their  instruction  in  the  most  useful  forms  of  manual  labour. 
Like  Pomare  of  Tahiti,  although  he  had  little  or  no  sym- 
pathy with  the  distinctive  work  of  the  Christian  missionaries, 
he  formed  a  shrewd  estimate  of  the  value  to  himself  and  to 
his  people  of  closer  intercourse  with  the  nation  they  repre- 
sented. One  clause  of  the  treaty  ran  that  ten  Malagasy 
boys  should  be  sent  to  Mauritius,  and  another  ten  to 
England,  '  to  be  instructed  in  useful  arts.'  The  latter  were 
educated  by  the  Society  at  the  expense  of  the  Government. 
Prince  Rataffe,  the  brother-in-law  of  Radama,  also  at  this 
time  visited  England  as  a  special  ambassador. 

The  tidings  of  these  favourable  events  in  Madagascar 
deeply  moved  the  Directors  and  friends  of  the  Society,  and 
active  steps  were  at  once  taken  to  strengthen  the  infant 
mission.  Prior  to  the  arrival  of  reinforcements,  David 
Griffiths,  a  student  at  Gosport,  had  been  appointed  to  the 
Madagascar  Mission,  and  had  sailed,  reaching  Mauritius 
January  23, 1821.  He  arrived  at  Antananarivo  on  May  30. 
In  1821  Mr.  John  Jeffreys,  who  had  been  educated  at 
the  Blackburn  Academy,  was  appointed  to  the  mission, 
and  sailed  August  6,  1821,  in  the  vessel  which  carried  back 
Prince  Rataffe  and  his  suite.     With  Mr.  Jeffreys  were  sent 


CHARACTER   OF  RAD  AM  A   I  677 

four  artisans  :  Thomas  Brooks  (carpenter),  John  Canham 
(currier  and  shoemaker),  George  Chick  (blacksmith),  and 
Thomas  Rowlands  (weaver).  From  the  first  the  mission  took 
vigorous  root  under  the  guidance  of  Jones  and  Griffiths. 
But  it  also  early  tasted  the  bitters  of  disappointment.  On 
June  24,  1824,  less  than  a  year  after  his  arrival.  Brooks 
died  of  fever.  Jeffreys  seemed  unable  either  to  settle  down 
to  work  or  to  agree  with  his  brethren.  On  June  21,  182.5, 
he  sailed  for  Mauritius,  and  on  July  4,  while  at  sea,  died. 
About  a  year  before  his  death  he  had  begun  work  at  Am- 
batomanga.  The  occasion,  though  not  the  cause,  of  the 
rupture  between  Jeffreys  and  his  colleagues  was  a  difference 
as  to  how  the  language  should  be  vocalized.  This  matter, 
curiously  enough,  was  not  unfrequently  a  source  of  fierce  con- 
troversy in  the  early  missions.  In  this  case  Mr.  Jeffreys,  with 
far  less  knowledge  of  the  language  than  Jones  and  Griffiths 
possessed,  tried  to  induce  Radama,  and  not  wholly  without 
success,  to  override  the  conclusions  of  his  senior  colleagues. 
By  the  middle  of  1823  these  thorny  matters  were  so  far 
settled  that  the  great  task  of  translating  the  Bible  into 
Malagasy  was  actually  begun.     In  a  letter  dated  Nov.  20, 

1823,  Jones  and  Griffiths  announce  that  in  the  course  of 
1824  they  hope  to  complete  Genesis,  Exodus,  Matthew, 
and  Luke.  Education,  which  constituted  the  chief  mis- 
sionary work  with  the  natives  themselves,  had  also  made 
such  rapid  progress  that  the  same  letter  states,  *  every  child 
in  the  schools  knows  how  to  read  his  own  language,'  and 
'  many  of  the  scholars  are  now  able  to  inbtruct  the  natives 
in  the  first  principles  of  the  Christian  religion.'  The 
Sunday  and  preaching  services  at  this  time  were  also  well 
attended,  the  attendance  averaging  300  or  400,  and  occa- 
sionally rising  as  high  as  3,000.     It  was  not  until  Feb.  20, 

1824,  that  Radama  gave  the  missionaries  permission  to 
preach  in  Malagasy,  and  on  February  22  Mr.  Jones 
preached  the  first  sermon,  the  natives  being  '  not  a  little 
amazed  to  hear  a  white  man  declaring  to  them  with 
fluency  the  wonderful  works  of  God  in  their  own  language.' 
The  chapel  in  which  services  were  held  was  annexed   to 


678  MADAGASCAR:   1818-1S35 

Mr.  Griffiths'  house,  and  could  hold  1,000  people.  Good 
and  commodious  houses  for  both  Mr.  Jones  and  Mr.  Griffiths 
had  been  built,  largely  through  Radama's  influence.  On 
May  23  the  communion  service  was  administered  for  the 
first  time  in  Malagasy,  Radama  attending,  and  the  chapel 
being  crowded,  though  of  course  no  natives  participated. 

A  letter  to  Mr.  Le  Brun  from  Mr.  Griffiths,  dated 
September  3,  1824,  gives  a  pleasing  picture  of  the  mission 
four  years  from  its  commencement  : — 

'  I  have  the  pleasure  to  inform  you  that  this  mission 
has  never  worn  a  more  promising  aspect  than  it  has  since 
last  May.  The  king  continues  his  protection  to  us,  and 
gives  us  encouragement  to  labour  with  assiduity.  We 
have  twenty-two  schools  established  since  last  April,  under 
his  Majesty's  patronage,  wherein  more  than  2,000  children 
are  instructed.  Our  first  scholars,  who  teach  at  the  different 
villages,  are  much  more  capable  of  teaching  than  I  ex- 
pected ;  their  ardent  pursuit  after  knowledge,  and  their 
unceasing  assiduity  in  communicating  instruction  to  others, 
afford  us  great  satisfaction  and  encouragement.  The 
progress  of  our  pupils  is  very  encouraging  in  the  knowledge 
of  the  word  of  salvation. 

'  I  have  a  chapel  built  annexed  to  my  house,  with  a 
gallery,  which  will  contain  more  than  1,000  hearers.  Mr. 
Jones  and  myself  preach  by  turns  when  we  are  in  town, 
one  in  English  aad  the  other  in  Malagash.  About  two 
months  ago  Mr.  Jones  and  I  commenced  visiting  the 
villages  where  schools  are  established,  to  preach  and  cate- 
chise ;  we  go  by  turns  every  Sunday.  We  have  thronged 
congregations  on  the  Sabbath  ;  our  chapel  in  town  is 
crowded,  and  the  doors  and  windows  lined.  We  have  three 
or  four,  and  sometimes  five  thousand  hearers  in  town,  and 
often  two  or  three  thousand  in  the  country. 

'  As  to  the  translation  of  the  Scriptures,  I  have  translated 
the  Book  of  Exodus,  and  the  Gospels  by  Mark  and  Luke, 
and  also  of  the  Psalms  as  far  as  the  fiftieth,  and  the  first 
three  chapters  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Romans.  Mr.  Jones 
has  translated  Genesis  and  the  Gospel  by  Matthew,  and  is  far 


THE  MISSION  IN  1S24  679 

advanced  with  the  Gospel  by  John,  and  the  Acts,  and  with 
the  First  Book  of  Samuel.  He  has  prepared  a  series  of 
discourses  on  the  work  of  Creation,  and  is  also  preparing 
discourses  on  the  Divine  Attributes.  You  see  by  all  this 
that  we  stand  in  the  greatest  need  of  a  printer  and  a 
printing  press.  Mr.  Chick  is  busily  employed  every  Sunday 
in  catechizing  the  children,  and  every  day  busily  engaged 
in  his  trade.  Everything  is  going  on  at  present  in  union 
and  peace.  Notwithstanding,  however,  the  pleasing  aspect 
the  mission  wears,  we  have  great  prejudices  and  supersti- 
tions to  encounter.  The  tenacity  of  the  natives  to  rank 
and  caste,  and  the  manners  and  customs  of  their  fore- 
fathers; their  numerous  idols,  which  we  did  not  know  much 
of  till  lately,  when  we  began  to  preach  against  them  ;  their 
mode  of  sacrificing  to  obtain  good  and  take  away  evil ; — all 
these  prejudices  and  superstitions  (though  the  youths  who 
are  instructed  laugh  at  them)  present  formidable  obstacles 
to  our  efforts.  We  are  convinced  more  and  more  of  the 
necessity  there  is  of  Divine  influence  to  bring  sinners  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus.  May  the  breath 
come,  and  breathe  upon  these  slain,  that  they  may  live.' 

It  was  providential  for  the  founding  of  the  mission  that 
Radama  was  a  man  of  intelligence.  He  took  the  keenest 
interest  in  all  educational  and  technical  work.  Mr.  Hastie, 
the  British  resident,  wrote  at  this  time :  '  Radama  is  truly 
anxious  that  his  people  should  be  instructed,  yet  he  is 
desirous  that  they  should  voluntarily  seek  instruction  from 
a  conviction  of  the  advantages  to  be  derived  therefrom.' 
When  in  the  villages  round  Antananarivo  some  of  the 
chief  people  refused  to  send  their  children,  Radama  sent 
for  them,  and  said  :  '  If  you  wish  to  become  wise  and  happ)', 
and  to  please  me,  send  your  children  to  the  schools  ; 
for  the  good,  the  industrious,  and  the  wise  shall  be 
honoured  by  me.'  He  also  said  to  his  secretary,  '  I  would 
rather  die  than  be  the  king  of  .savages  any  longer.' 

After  a  year  at  such  high  pressure  as  1824  it  was  only 
to  be  expected  that  signs  of  reaction  would  appear. 
Probably  no  people  were  ever  further  removed  from  chastity 


^8o  MADAGASCAR :  1818-1835 

and  the  purity  of  Christian  life  than  the  Malagasy.  The 
ideas  and  conceptions  involved  in  these  words,  as  we  use 
them,  had  to  be  created  in  the  minds  of  the  natives. 
In  addition,  as  the  missionaries  came  to  know  the  people 
better  they  found  that  ancient  superstitions  had  a  much 
firmer  hold  upon  the  natives  than  they  had  at  first  believed. 
Radama  too,  though  alive  to  all  the  material  benefits  of 
Christianity,  never  evinced  any  disposition  to  submit  to  its 
moral  and  spiritual  claims.  In  1825  Radama  had  only 
recently  acquired  his  headship  over  the  central  tribes,  and 
urged  Jones  and  Griffiths  to  proceed  cautiously,  lest  under 
the  influence  of  old  custom  the  natives  should  weaken  their 
attachment  to  him  as  a  ruler,  because  he  was  friendly  with 
the  foreigners.  He  expressed  no  willingness  to  be  instructed 
himself  in  religious  matters,  but  he  questioned  some  of  his 
chief  people  very  closely  as  to  what  they  were  taught. 
There  were  signs  also  of  the  old  heathen  practice  of 
attributing  calamities  to  foreign  influence.  Still,  adverse 
as  these  and  other  influences  were,  the  work  went  steadily 
forward.  On  August  24,  1825,  that  is,  barely  five  years 
after  their  establishment  in  the  capital,  the  missionaries 
announced  the  completion  of  the  translation  of  the  New 
Testament — this  in  itself  no  mean  achievement ;  and  they 
again  renewed  their  request  for  a  printing  press.  Education 
continued  to  prosper  even  in  face  of  the  fact  that  the 
parents  often  bid  their  children  disobey  the  precepts 
of  the  missionaries.  The  three  artisan  missionaries, 
however,  found  it  difficult  to  employ  their  time  usefully ; 
and  Canham  and  Rowlands  were  instructed  by  Jones  and 
Griffiths  with  a  view  to  missionary  service. 

On  October  18,  1826,  Mr.  Hastie  died.  His  name 
deserves  honoured  remembrance  in  the  story  of  Mada- 
gascar. He  used  his  position  of  power  and  influence 
always  for  what  he  believed  to  be  the  highest  interests 
of  the  natives.  Far  from  allowing  his  official  position 
to  lead  him  to  look  askance  at  Christian  work,  he  had 
from  the  first  exerted  himself  in  cVery  possible  way  to 
encourage   and    assist   and    to    sustain    the   work    of    the 


ARRIVAL   OF  DAVID  JOHNS  68i 

missionaries.  In  losing  him  they  parted  with  a  true  friend 
and  a  sound  adviser — one  of  the  many  helpers  whom 
Christian  missionaries  in  different  parts  of  the  world 
during  the  century  have  found  among  British  officials. 
His  death  was  a  great  loss  to  the  mission  in  many  ways, 
and  it  was  also  a  blow  to  British  influence,  since  Radama's 
secretary  was  a  Frenchman,  M.  Robin,  and  from  the  time 
of  Mr.  Hastie's  death  the  missionaries  thought  they  could 
trace  a  strengthening  of  French  influence  on  the  mind  and 
actions  of  Radama. 

On  September  ii,  1826,  a  new  worker  who  was  destined 
to  do  good  service  to  Madagascar  reached  the  capital. 
This  was  David  Jones,  another  Welshman,  who  had  been 
educated  at  Newtown  Academy,  North  Wales,  and  at 
Gosport.  As  the  senior  member  of  the  mission  was  also 
named  David  Jones,  and  as  the  disadvantages  which  would 
arise  from  this  fact  were  obvious,  the  new  comer  by  a 
slight  alteration  changed  his  name  from  Jones  to  Johns^ 
and  by  this  name  he  has  been  known  ever  since.  David 
Johns  was  accompanied  by  two  artisans.  One,  a  cotton 
spinner,  named  John  Cummins,  soon  finding  that  there 
was  no  scope  on  the  island  for  his  abilities,  retired  from 
both  it  and  the  mission  in  1828.  The  other,  James 
Cameron,  a  carpenter,  was  destined  to  pass  many  years 
of  a  long  life  in  the  service  of  Madagascar.  He  aided 
Cummins  in  setting  up  at  Amparibe  the  machinery  which 
they  had  brought  out  for  cotton  spinning,  and  also  in 
erecting  the  printing  press,  which  to  the  joy  of  Jones  and 
Griffiths  had  been  sent  to  them  under  the  care  of  Mr.  Johns. 
To  work  the  press  Charles  Hovenden  had  been  appointed. 
He  reached  Antananarivo  November  21,  1826,  but  died 
there  almost  immediately,  on  December  15.  The  im- 
portance of  the  mission,  and  the  phenomenal  success  which 
had  so  far  attended  the  work,  stimulated  the  Directors 
to  most  earnest  efforts  in  its  support.  The  Rev.  J.J.  Free- 
man, who  had  been  educated  at  Hoxton  Academy,  and  was 
afterwards  pastor  of  Kidderminster,  had  been  appointed 
for  a  term  of  several  years  to  the  Madagascar  Mission.    He 


682  MADAGASCAR:   1818-1S35 

arrived  at  the  capital  September  24,  1827;  and  Mr.  Baker, 
the  printer  appointed  to  succeed  Mr.  Hovenden,  arrived 
towards  the  end  of  1828. 

The  cotton  manufacturing  experiment  was  no  more 
satisfactory  than  that  on  Tahiti  ^  The  machinery  cost 
;^6co,  a  sum  which  the  king  had  been  expected  to  pay. 
He  demurred  to  this,  and  finally  Jones  arranged  with  him 
to  co-operate  in  trying  to  make  the  machinery  pay,  an 
experiment  which  met  with  no  success.  From  time  to 
time  also  there  was  friction  with  the  artisan  missionaries, 
Jones  going  so  far  in  1827  as  to  say  he  wished  that  he  had 
nothing  to  do  with  them.  While  some  of  them  developed 
into  splendid  missionaries,  others,  probably  from  defective 
education  or  imperfect  spiritual  development,  were  sources 
of  great  trouble.  Rowlands,  with  whom  relations  had  been 
for  some  time  very  strained,  died  of  fever  in  April,  1829. 
Another  source  of  trouble  was  the  failure  which  had 
attended  the  experiment  of  sending  the  ten  Malagasy 
youths  to  England  to  be  trained.  Several  of  them  died 
abroad,  and  those  who  returned  were  neither  serviceable 
nor  creditable  to  the  mission. 

In  his  closing  days  Radama  passed  under  the  influence 
of  sycophants  and  others  who  were  only  too  eager  to 
prejudice  him  against  British  missionaries. 

The  work  which  had  meanwhile  made  the  best  progress, 
and  which  formed  the  stable  foundation  for  the  mission  in 
the  dark  days  which  were  rapidly  approaching,  was  the 
education  of  the  young.  'The  Second  Report  of  the 
Madagascar  Missionary  School  Society,  1828  ;  under 
the  patronage  of  His  Majesty  Radama,'  is  a  document  of 
great  interest  It  consists  of  four  large  folio  pages, 
'  printed  at  the  Missionary  Press,  Tananarivo.'  It  throws 
a  strong  light  upon  this  most  valuable  department  of 
service,  and  it  abounds  in  quaint  and  curious  comment. 
In  the  opening  paragraph  the  missionaries  say:  'The 
experience  of  years  in  communicating  instruction  to  a 
people  ignorant   of  the   advantages  of  education,  and  to 

^  See  pp.  218,  219. 


DEATH  OF  MR.    TYERMAN  683 

whom  the  sakitary  influence  of  Divine  Truth  affords 
a  novel  exhibition,  has  powerfully  demonstrated  the  im- 
portance of  cultivating  the  decision  of  a  Ruth,  the  patience 
of  a  Job,  the  perseverance  of  a  Paul,  and  the  wisdom 
of  a  Solomon ;  while  to  strengthen  and  adorn  every  other 
virtue,  the  affection  of  a  John  should  be  superadded.'  The 
report  notes  that  in  a  recent  address  to  his  people 
Radama  said  :  ^  The  king  urges  you  to  send  your  children 
to  school  in  order  that  they  may  learn  good  principles, 
and  be  enabled  by  the  art  of  writing  to  commit  to  paper 
family  concerns,  so  that  disputes  and  contentions,  deceits 
and  wars  may  cease '  ;  that  the  press  set  up  towards  the 
close  of  1827  has  already  done  good  service,  'some  reading 
lessons,  a  spelling  book,  a  catechism,  a  hymn-book,  and 
some  portions  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  are  already  printed.' 
Although  the  schools  were  begun  only  in  i(S2o  and  1821 
by  the  conjoint  aid  of  the  Society  and  the  Mauritius 
Government,  this  report  notes  that  in  18 28  there  were 
in  the  capital  and  surrounding  country  thirty-seven  schools 
with  forty-four  teachers  and  2,309  scholars. 

The  Rev.  D.  Tyerman  and  Mr.  George  Bennet,  the 
Deputation  appointed  in  1820  to  visit  all  the  Society's 
stations,  reached  Tamatave  on  July  3,  1828,  and  were 
there  met  by  Mr.  Jones,  and  by  him  escorted  to  the  capital. 
They  arrived  amid  the  confusion  caused  by  the  death  of 
Radama  on  July  27,  1828,  and  on  July  30  Mr.  Tyerman 
died  suddenly  from  apoplexy  at  the  house  of  Mr.  Jones. 
The  death  of  the  king  led  to  a  reactionary  revolution, 
paralyzed  education,  and  at  once  began  to  seriously  affect 
all  distinctive  mission-work.  Mr.  Jones  visited  the  king 
at  his  own  request  on  July  25,  and  was  the  last  European 
who  saw-  him.  The  successor  designated  by  Radama  him- 
self was  Rakotob^,  his  nephew,  the  eldest  son  of  his  eldest 
sister,  an  intelligent  young  man  who  had  been  trained  in 
the  mission  schools.  But  Ranavalona,  one  of  Radama's 
wives,  was  placed  upon  the  throne  by  the  aid  of  a  number 
of  officials  who  were  opposed  to  Christianity,  and  to  the 
changes  introduced  by  Radam.a.     An  attempt  to  conceal 


684  MADAGASCAR :   1818-1835 

the  kino's  death  until  steps  could  be  taken  to  proclaim 
Rakotobe  failed.  Two  military  officials  were  won  over 
to  Ranavalona,  who  acted  secretly  and  swiftly,  and  by 
informing  large  portions  of  the  army  that  the  idols  named 
her  as  successor,  won  their  adherence.  The  chief  of  the 
army  was  summoned  to  the  courtyard  of  the  palace,  and 
then  and  there  compelled  to  make  his  choice.  He  chose 
life  and  subservience  to  the  usurping  queen.  Four  other 
high  officials,  less  pliable,  were  instantly  speared.  A  few 
days  later  Rakotobe  was  put  to  death  ;  and  a  few  weeks 
later  his  father  Ratefy,  and  his  mother,  Radama's  sister. 
Many  others  powerful  enough  to  become  objects  of  sus- 
picion to  Ranavalona  were  also  put  to  death.  Nor  did  the 
violence  affect  opponents  only.  Andriamihaja,  a  young 
officer  who  had  been  mainly  instrumental  in  placing  the 
queen  upon  the  throne,  soon  fell  under  her  displeasure  and 
was  murdered.  This  man,  however,  in  the  providence  of  God, 
was  the  means  of  great  good  in  the  work  of  the  mission. 
The  original  plan  was  to  banish  all  Europeans  at  once ; 
but  on  the  ground  that  they  were  useful  in  education  and 
civilization,  he  secured  their  continuance  for  a  time  in  the 
island,  and  he  also  aided  and  encouraged  the  work  of  the 
artisan  missionaries.  He  was  himself  attracted  towards 
Christianity,  and  at  the  time  when  his  executioners  reached 
his  house  he  was  reading  the  New  Testament.  He  was 
succeeded  in  power  and  place  by  Rainiharo,  commander- 
in-chief,  and  Rainimaharo,  head  of  the  queen's  household. 
To  these  men  were  mainly  due  the  reaction  in  favour  of 
idolatry,  and  the  ultimate  persecution  of  Christianity. 

In  the  prospect  of  events  like  these,  well  might  Mr.  Jones 
write  as  he  did  on  September  lo,  1828  :— 

'  The  idol  Kelimalaza  and  the  divination  Sikidy,  which 
Radama  had  chased  away  for  some  years  past,  have 
entered  into  court,  and  they  now  direct  and  govern  all 
things  as  they  did  twenty  years  ago.  Every  superstition 
IS  renewed,  the  schools  and  divine  service  on  the  Sabbath 
m  the  native  language  are  stopped,  and  I  do  not  know 
when  things  will  wear  a  more  pleasing  aspect.  .  .  .  What 


EDUCATIONAL    WORK  685 

trials,  sorrows,  and  troubles  I  have  experienced ;  and  what 
changes  and  events  I  have  seen  in  Madagascar  since 
September,  181 8!  May  all  things  be  directed  by  infinite 
wisdom  to  advance  and  extend  Immanuel's  kingdom  in 
this  land  of  darkness  and  superstition  ! ' 

Before  sketching  the  events  of  Ranavalona's  reign  it 
may  be  well  to  review  what  had  been  achieved  in  Mada- 
gascar in  the  brief  space  of  ten  years.  The  enormous 
amount  of  educational  work  accomplished  has  already 
been  indicated.  Then,  as  now,  there  were  supporters  of 
the  Society  who  held  that  education  is  not  of  prime 
missionary  importance.  Then,  as  now,  it  was  necessary 
to  insist  that  educational  work  might  not  only  be  necessary, 
but  it  might  even  be  the  ofily  way  by  which  the  missionaries 
could  get  a  base  from  which  to  carry  on  more  directly 
spiritual  work.  Until  they  themselves  had  learned  the 
language,  and  had  established  some  common  ground 
between  themselves  and  the  people  directly,  spiritual  work 
was  impossible.  '  We  are  either  efficient  or  not,'  write  the 
missionaries  (March  3,  1828), 'as  the  schools  are  encouraged 
and  supported.  Even  the  translation  and  printing  of  the 
Scriptures  would  be  in  vain  unless  there  are  readers ;  and 
readers  can  only  be  obtained  in  the  schools.  To  which 
we  may  add  that  without  the  schools  we  have  not  even 
hearers.  In  brief,  without  schools,  we  labour,  translate, 
print,  and  preach  in  vain.  With  them  we  are  indulging 
the  pleasing  hope  that  extensive  good  is  springing  up."* 

In  the  ten  years,  moreover,  the  missionaries  had  trans- 
lated a  considerable  portion  of  the  Bible,  and  they  had 
for  years  conducted  religious  services  in  the  vernacular. 
Writing  home  on  March  3,  1828,  they  report  the  really 
wonderful  progress  in  translation  : — 

*  With  the  exception  of  some  of  the  more  abstruse  and 
difficult  parts  of  the  Old  Testament,  the  whole  of  the 
Scriptures  are  prepared  for  final  revision.  .  .  .  There  is  now 
in  the  press  a  first  catechism,  of  which  there  will  be  1.500 
copies ;  also  the  Gospel  by  Luke,  which  is  printed  as  far  as 
the   eighth   chapter.      January   i,  1828,  we   employed    in 


686  MADAGASCAR:  1818-1835 

finally  revising  and  putting  to  press  the  sheet  containing 
Luke  i,  wishing  thus  to  hallow  the  new  year  in  opening  the 
fountain  of  living  waters  in  the  midst  of  this  parched 
ground.  ...  As  we  have  entered  on  the  task  of  finally 
revising  for  the  press,  and  issuing  a  portion  of  the  sacred 
volume,  it  may  be  satisfactory  to  state  the  plan  we  pursue. 
We  meet  twice  a  week  to  prepare  the  sheets  for  the  com- 
posers. The  missionary  to  whom  the  share  has  fallen, 
either  Mr.  Jones  or  Mr.  Griiffiths,  of  translating  the  portion 
under  revision  brings  his  copy,  previously  corrected  with 
the  utmost  care  by  himself.  In  the  present  instance  it  is 
a  fourth  correction.  This  is  read,  verse  by  verse,  or 
sentence  by  sentence,  and  weighed  maturely  with  all  the 
aids  of  which  we  can  avail  ourselves.' 

This  Malagasy  version  of  the  Bible  was  a  marvellous 
achievement  on  the  part  of  these  two  men,  and  had  they 
been  able  to  foresee  the  events  of  the  next  seven  years, 
they  could  have  done  nothing  more  serviceable  to  the 
cause  of  Christ  in  Madag-ascar. 

o 

We  now  resume  the  thread  of  events.  Even  before 
Mr.  Bennet  left  Antananarivo  the  queen  had  sent  a  message 
to  the  missionaries  assuring  them  of  protection,  and 
promising  to  act  towards  them  as  Radama  had  done. 
But  it  was  not  until  December  25  that  the  schools  were 
allowed  to  reopen.  At  the  same  time  the  queen  pro- 
hibited public  worship  and  singing.  Copies  of  Luke's 
Gospel  which  had  been  given  to  officers  were  returned  by 
order  of  the  queen,  on  the  ground  that  her  officers  had  no 
time  to  attend  to  such  things,  but  the  scholars  in  the 
schools  were  allowed  to  retain  the  copies  given  to  them. 
Although  the  schools  and  public  worship  were  prohibited, 
translation  work  was  not  placed  under  a  ban.  Aided  by 
twelve  of  the  most  intelligent  Malagasy  scholars,  revising 
and  printing  went  rapidly  forward.  But  difficulties  and 
anxieties  were  ever  around  the  workers.  Mr.  Lyall,  the 
new  British  resident,  a  man  in  temper  and  ability  very 
different  from  Mr.  Hastie,  became  involved  with  the 
Government  over  a  so-called  *  insult '  to  one  of  the  ^reat 


COMPLETION  OF  THE  NEW  TESTAMENT     687 

idols.  He  had,  either  through  ignorance  or  carelessness, 
taken  a  horse  into  a  village  sacred  to  the  idol,  where  no 
such  creatures  were  allowed.  This  gave  the  palace  an 
opportunity  for  which  they  were  looking,  and  led  to  his 
departure  from  the  island  in  1829.  Some  time  previously 
Mr.  Lyall  had  become  very  hostile  to  Messrs.  Jones  and 
Griffiths,  and  in  the  ensuing  differences  Mr.  Freeman 
appears  to  have  sympathized  to  some  extent  with  Lyall. 
Freeman,  who  was  a  man  of  some  culture  and  standing, 
did  not  relish  being  in  subordination  to  his  senior  colleagues 
in  the  mission,  and  both  he  and  Lyall  failed  to  make 
allowance  for  the  influence  of  ten  years'  residence  in 
Madagascar.  This,  and  their  relatively  inferior  training,  led 
Jones  and  Griffiths  both  to  do  and  say  things  which,  though 
harmless  in  themselves,  were  not  palatable  to  the  new- 
comers. The  older  men,  on  the  other  hand,  clearly  thought 
Lyall  incapable  of  dealing  wisely  with  the  natives,  and 
probably  also,  though  of  this  there  is  no  proof,  resented 
Freeman's  real  or  assumed  superiority.  Freeman's  corre- 
spondence at  this  time  is  full  of  alarmist  statements  and 
appeals,  and  at  a  very  early  date  he  forsook  the  mission, 
being  the  first  member  of  the  staff  to  leave  the  island.  An 
important  influence  in  his  decision  was  his  apparent  fear 
that  the  French  were  about  to  march  on  the  capital.  With 
his  family  he  left  Antananarivo  September  30,  1829,  and 
retired,  first  to  Mauritius,  and  then  to  Cape  Town,  where 
he  remained  until  July,  1831. 

The  year  1830  was  remarkable,  first,  for  the  completion 
in  February  of  the  printing  of  the  New  Testament,  and,  in 
the  next  place,  for  the  very  marked  improvement  in  the 
attendance  at  public  worship,  and  in  the  demeanour  of 
those  who  came.  A  letter  from  Mr.  Baker,  dated  July  1, 
1830,  refers  to  the  spiritual  awakening  which  was  so  marked 
at  that  time  : — 

'  Never  have  I  observed  so  much  appearance  of  emotion 
produced  and  a  spirit  of  inquiry  excited  as  at  the  present 
time.  Conversation  among  the  natives  on  religion  is 
frequent,  and  the  preaching  seems  to  reach  with  impressive 


688  MADAGASCAR:  1S1S-1S35 

force  the  consciences  of  some.  There  is  no  room  for  us 
to  slacken  our  hands  or  suffer  supineness  or  indifference  to 
overtake  us.  I  cannot  think  that  the  Word  of  God  will 
ever  be  destroyed  from  this  land,  or  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  ever  forgotten  before  the  dawning  of  a  brighter  day 
perpetuate  the  one  and  exalt  the  other.' 

In  a  letter  dated  September  i,  1830,  he  dwells  on  the 
same  theme :  '  It  is  truly  delightful  to  see  the  present 
attendance  at  chapel.  The  hour  of  the  solemn  assembly 
never  arrives  without  exhibiting  the  pleasing  spectacle  of 
many  already  met  together,  and  awaiting,  with  apparent 
desire,  the  commencement  of  the  service.  The  number 
of  adults  is  very  considerable,  and  consists  principally  of 
regular  attendants  who  have  first  come  forward  to  know 
what  is  the  meaning  of  our  instructions,  and  have  finally 
evinced  and  professed  a  desire  to  become  followers  of 
Jesus.' 

Towards  the  close  of  the  year  a  second  chapel,  capable 
of  seating  500  persons,  was  begun  at  Ambatonakanga 
by  Mr.  Johns,  and  opened  for  worship  on  June  5,  1831. 
But  the  external  aspect  of  affairs  was  unpromising.  The 
queen  was  hostile  to  anything  but  artisan  and  educa- 
tional work,  and  not  at  all  cordial  to  either  of  these.  She 
stopped  the  sale  of  Testaments  in  the  market,  remarking, 
'  That  it  was  the  same  as  to  sell  her  kingdom.'  When  the 
contract  with  Canham,  the  tanner,  expired,  she  refused  to 
renew  it,  and  his  work  as  an  artisan  came  to  an  end,  though 
for  some  years  he  engaged  in  educational  and  religious 
work.  Cameron  had  some  500  or  600  youths  to  instruct  in 
the  manufacture  of  soap  and  sulphur,  and  to  these  he  was 
able  to  impart  much  educational  and  religious  knowledge. 

Evidence  of  anxious  religious  inquiry  and  of  spiritual 
awakening  abounded  and  increased  throughout  the  year 
1 83 1.  In  September  Mr.  Freeman,  accompanied  by  the 
Rev.  Thcophilus  Atkinson  and  his  wife,  who  had  been  for 
some  years  missionaries  in  South  Africa,  returned  to 
Antananarivo  from  the  Cape.  A  few  months  earlier  a 
great  step  forward  had  been  taken  in  the  development  of 


4S 


50 


MADAGASCAR 


CAmba- 


I)iegoSuarezB. 


Scale  1:10,000,000, 
Statute JifiLes 


SWtbnnrP*' 


^^B. 


Fervoariyo 


amatavB 


'Arvdovoranto 


VC.Eost 


^ 


w 


^MxrLeL^ 


o 


^ 


^ 


'--f 


-;>-..- 


T  V      "i-i 


Georg'e  Piolip  <?<;SoB.,Lon(lon&laveTpool 


FIRST  NATURE   CHURCH  FORMED  689 

a  Christian  church  in  Madagascar.  The  queen,  strange  as 
the  fact  appears  in  the  light  of  later  history,  had.  in  Novem- 
ber. 1830,  allowed  two  houses  to  be  opened  for  teaching 
and  preaching,  and  on  Sunday,  May  21,  1831,  had  issued 
her  royal  permission  that  any  natives  who  so  desired  might 
be  baptized,  might  unite  with  the  missionaries  in  the  Lord's 
Supper,  and  might  be  married  in  accordance  with  Christian 
custom.  In  consequence  of  this,  Mr.  Griffiths  baptized 
twenty,  and  eight  were  admitted  to  the  Lord's  table. 
Some  were  also  baptized  and  admitted  to  the  communion 
by  Mr.  Johns.  Two  native  Christian  churches  were 
formed.  One  was  at  Ambodin'  Andohalo,  under  the  care 
of  Mr.  Griffiths,  and  there  on  August  6,  1831,  thirty-seven 
natives,  who  had  been  previously  baptized,  were  consti- 
tuted the  first  Christian  church  of  Madagascar.  By 
November  4  the  membership  had  increased  to  sixty-seven. 
The  other  was  Ambatonakanga,  and  there  on  June  12, 
1831,  eight  natives  w^ere  constituted  a  Christian  church. 
Mr.  Freeman,  after  his  two  }'ears'  absence,  wrote  that  he 
could  scarcely  believe  his  eyes,  so  many  new  native  houses 
had  been  built  ;  there  were  such  large  congregations  ;  the 
schools  were  not  so  flourishing,  but  the  natives  were  hold- 
ing prayer-meetings  in  each  other's  houses. 

Notwithstanding  all  this  progress,  and  partly  because  of 
it,  the  anti-missionary  feeling  of  the  Government  became 
more  marked.  Mr.  Griffiths  was  ordered  to  leave  the 
island,  as  his  ten  years'  residence  was  now  completed.  He 
requested  that  he  might  be  allowed  either  another  ten 
years'  residence,  or  to  become  one  of  the  queen's  subjects. 
The  native  Christians,  too,  were  the  objects  of  much  scorn 
and  ridicule  from  their  heathen  neighbours  and  friends,  but 
they  continued  to  live  the  Gospel,  and  to  make  it  known 
to  others,  and  their  numbers  steadily  increa.sed. 

It  is  a  painful  fact  that  at  the  period  of  this  great 
awakening  among  the  natives,  the  missionaries  were  not  at 
peace  among  themselves.  The  correspondence  of  the  time 
reveals  a  very  strong  animosity  against  Griffiths  on  the 
part  of  all,  except  Jones  who  was  in  England,  and  Baker 

I.  V  y 


690  MADAGASCAR:  1S1S-1S35 

the  printer.  Fortunately  this  does  not  appear  to  have  been 
permitted  to  injure  spiritual  work.  The  difference  seemed 
to  have  reached  an  acute  stage  in  the  course  of  winding  up 
the  affairs  of  the  School  Society,  which  organization  came 
to  an  end  in  1831.  Finally,  the  dispute  reached  such  a  pass 
that  Freeman,  Johns,  Chick,  Cameron,  and  Canham  told 
the  queen  that  if  she  desired  Griffiths  to  remain,  they 
would  all  return  to  England. 

The  Directors  also  had  on  August  29,  1831,  passed  a 
resolution  that  Griffiths  should  go  to  the  Cape  and  work 
under  Dr.  Philip,  or,  if  he  preferred  it,  return  to  England. 
But  Griffiths,  probably  in  response  to  his  appeal  referred 
to  above,  received  the  queen's  permission  to  extend  his 
stay  in  the  island  until  January,  1833.  He  refused  to  leave 
Madagascar,  and  matters  continued  to  drift.  Very  early  in 
3832,  the  natives  were  interdicted  from  baptism  and  the 
Lord's  Supper.  Johns,  in  a  letter  dated  April  15,  1832, 
attributes  this  to  the  action  of  Griffiths,  who,  by  baptizing 
a  large  number  of  natives,  probably  through  fear  of  coming 
interdiction,  led  the  officials  to  say,  '  This  baptism  is  like 
an  oath  of  allegiance,  and  when  the  whites  get  a  sufficient 
number  they  will  rise  against  the  Government,  and  take 
the  country.'  Mr.  Griffiths'  action  in  forming  the  newly 
baptized  into  a  church  deepened  the  distrust  of  the  queen's 
high  officers. 

While  these  events  were  taking  place^  Baker  had  returned 
to  England  to  get  married,  and  Atkinson,  to  whom  the  queen 
had  granted  only  one  year's  residence^,  and  whose  health 
had  been  very  bad,  was  compelled  to  leave.  The  reason 
assigned  for  not  extending  his  time  was  that  he  could  teach 
nothing  but  taratasy,  that  is,  things  connected  with  books. 
A  letter  signed  by  Johns,  Freeman,  and  Canham,  and 
dated  May  28,  1833,  gives  a  very  clear  statement  of  the 
condition  of  the  mission  at  this  period.  After  noting  that 
the  mission  has  ceased  to  be  exclusively  educational,  and 
now  has  much  more  to  do  with  adults,  the  letter  continues: — 
'  Our  time,  instead  of  being  wholly  occupied  with  schools, 
is  now  therefore  considerably  occupied  with  adult  natives  ; 


WORK   OF  THE  PRESS  IN  1832  691 

whose  visits  are  frequent,  and  whose  conversational  inquiries 
into  the  meaning  of  those  portions  of  Scripture  which  they 
possess,  would  require  nearly  the  whole  of  our  time  to 
resolve.  Our  public  services,  and  preparation  for  them, 
make  also  demands  on  our  time,  more  extensively  than 
formerly.  By  all  these  means  we  are,  however,  brought 
far  more  into  contact  with  the  mind  of  the  natives  than  we 
could  be  by,  perhaps,  any  other  system,  and  thus  a  wider 
door  is  thrown  open  for  opportunities  of  usefulness,  and  we 
ourselves  stand  in  a  new  light  before  the  eyes  of  these 
natives,  of  whom  there  are  now  multitudes,  no  longer 
regarding  us  as  the  mere  teachers  of  their  children,  but  as 
their  personal  friends,  and  as  seeking  the  general  good  of 
their  country. 

*  Perhaps  in  no  division  of  the  great  missionary  field  is 
the  injunction  of  the  Saviour  more  strikingly  applicable 
than  in  Madagascar:  ''Work  while  it  is  called  to-day." 
We  are  happy  to  say,  that  since  the  period  of  Mr.  Baker's 
leaving  for  England,  we  have  finished  the  last  sheets  of 
the  Psalms,  and  bound  up  for  distribution,  with  stiff  paper 
covers,  about  2,200  ;  all  these  are  in  circulation.  We  have 
printed  also  an  edition  of  the  Malagasy  Spelling  Book,  con- 
sisting of  4.5CO  ;  all  these  are  distributed,  and  we  have  not 
a  copy  left,  and  propose  printing  another  edition  almost 
immediately.  In  some  cases  we  have  distributed  only  one 
copy  between  three  or  four  scholars,  not  having  a  sufficient 
number  to  supply  one  to  each  scholar,  and  the  numerous 
applications  of  voluntary  learners.  We  have  printed  also 
three  new  tracts :  On  the  Sabbath,  2,000  by  Mr.  Canham ; 
Life  of  Oberlin,  2,000  by  Mr.  Freeman  ;  The  True  Riches, 
2,oco  by  Mr.  Johns  ;  and  an  edition  of  1,000  Catechisms. 
We  have  printed  the  Book  of  Proverbs,  and  are  adding  to 
it  Ecclesiastes,  which  we  expect  will  be  completed  in 
a  few  days. 

'  The  congregations  continue  steady  and  attentive,  and 
we  hope  there  is  an  evident  increase  of  knowledge.  The 
heart  is  known  to  God  alone,  but  the  appearance  and  con- 
duct of  most  of  those  who  were  baptized,  encourage  hope 

\'  y  2 


692  MADAGASCAR:  lSlS-1835 

respecting  them.  A  native  youth  usually  engages  in  prayer 
at  the  opening  of  morning  worship,  and  gives  also  an 
address  in  the  afternoon.  Two  natives  also  engage  in 
prayer  at  the  Thursday  afternoon  service ;  and  sometimes 
with  a  fervour  that  would  refresh  the  heart  of  the  friends 
of  heathen,  in  any  part  of  the  world.  The  Sabbath  even- 
ings we  occupy  in  our  respective  houses  with  natives  who 
assemble  for  the  perusal  and  examination  of  some  portion 
of  Scripture  in  order.  Prayer-meetings  also  continue  to 
be  held  among  the  natives  in  their  own  houses.  The 
Lord's  Supper  we  continue  to  administer  to  the  members 
of  the  mission,  publicly,  and  in  the  native  language,  as  an 
exhibition  of  the  "Lord's  death,"  though  no  native  can 
partake  of  it.  They  are  spectators,  and  we  trust  the  com- 
memoration of  it  in  their  presence  may  have  a  beneficial 
effect  on  their  hearts,  though  the  law  still  forbids  their 
participation.' 

During  1833  to  1835  matters  remained  in  much  the 
same  state.  The  controversy  between  Griffiths  and  his 
colleagues  continued.  The  spiritual  work  among  the 
natives  deepened  and  widened.  At  the  same  time,  signs 
of  religious  excitement  due  to  partial  and  imperfectly 
apprehended  teaching  appeared.  In  1834  the  action  of 
a  religious  fanatic  greatly  increased  the  queen's  resentment 
against  Christianity.  Mr.  Cameron  has  given  us  a  striking 
sketch  of  this  man  : — 

'There  was  at  that  time  another  remarkable  man, 
Rainitsiandavaka,  middle-aged,  and  of  extra  sanguine 
temperament,  who  had  got  a  superficial  acquaintance  with 
some  of  the  truths  of  the  Bible.  He  did  not  exactly 
belong  to  Ambatonakanga,  and  had  not  been  baptized 
by  any  one,  but  he  had  conversed  a  good  deal  with  some 
church  members,  and  occasionally  with  the  missionaries. 
In  and  around  his  own  village  in  the  north  he  began 
to  make  a  great  stir  in  teaching  the  people  such  things 
as  the  following :  That  Christ  was  to  return  to  the  world, 
when  all  men  should  be  blessed  and  perhaps  never  die; 
that  there  would  be  no  more  slavery,  for  all  men  would 


GROWING  HOSTILITY  OF   THE   QUEEN  693 

be  equally  free ;  that  cannons  and  guns  and  spears  might 
be  buried  in  the  ground,  for  there  would  be  no  more  war : 
even  the  spade,  he  said,  might  be  buried  in  the  ground 
for  the  earth  would  bring  forth  its  fruits  without  labour ; 
and  that  the  idols  were  not  divinities,  but  guardians.  He 
and  his  followers  formed  a  procession,  and,  bringing  with 
them  an  idol  of  which  he  was  the  keeper,  came  up  to 
Antananarivo  to  tell  the  queen  the  glorious  news.  The 
queen  appointed  some  officers  to  hear  his  story,  who  soon 
returned  and  reported  it  to  her.  She  sent  back  to  ask  him 
if  the  Queen  of  Madagascar  and  the  Mozambique  slaves 
would  be  equal  in  those  days.  He  said  "  yes."  When 
they  told  the  queen  this,  she  sent  men  who  prepared 
a  large  quantity  of  boiling  water,  when  the  poor  man, 
with  two  others,  and  their  idol,  were  thrust  into  a  rice-pit, 
and  boiling  water  was  poured  over  them,  and  the  pit 
covered  up.  Many  of  his  party  suffered  death  by  tangena 
at  the  same  time.' 

The  multiplying  signs  of  hostility  to  Christianity  on  the 
part  of  the  queen  and  court  culminated  on  Sunday,  March  i, 
1835,  at  a  great  kabary  or  public  assembly,  specially 
summoned  for  the  purpose,  in  the  edict  suppressing  Chris- 
tianity which  was  then  formally  promulgated.  Although 
events  had  long  been  tending  in  the  direction  of  decisive 
action,  the  occasion  of  this  step  was  an  accusation  against 
the  whole  body  of  Christians  brought  before  the  queen 
by  an  officer  named  Razakandrianaina.  He  accused  them 
of  changing  the  customs,  despising  the  idols  and  sikidy, 
and  of  entering  into  a  league  with  the  English.  Ratsi- 
manisa  encouraged  this  man  and  laid  his  accusation  before 
the  queen. 

The  rapid  sequence  of  events  has  been  vividly  sketched  by 
Messrs.  Johns  and  Freeman  ^,  and  the  reader  is  referred  to 
their  volume  for  many  details  of  thrilling  interest.  The  final 
scene  and  prohibition  of  Christianity  is  thus  described  :  — 

'  At  four  o'clock  that  afternoon  -  the  usual  public  service 

*  A  Narrative  of  the  Persecutions  of  the  Christians  in  Afiuia^ascar^  1840. 
^  Thursday,  February  26th. 


694  MADAGASCAR :  lSlS-1835 

was  held  at  the  chapel  at  Ambatonakanga,  and  one  of  the 
natives  was  requested  to  conduct  the  meeting,  and  to 
deliver  an  address.  The  chapel  was  quite  full,  and  the 
address  was  excellent,  founded  on  the  very  appropriate 
text,  "Save,  Lord,  we  perish."  It  was  the  last  public 
address  ever  delivered  there.  The  officers  then  came  to 
the  residence  of  Mr.  Griffiths,  where  the  Europeans  had 
met  by  appointment,  to  receive  the  queen's  message. 
Ratsimanlsa,  the  most  inveterate  enemy  to  Christianity, 
was  at  their  head.  His  appearance  indicated  great  ex- 
citement and  determined  enmity,  as  if  actuated  by  some 
malignant  power.  There  being  no  room  for  the  whole 
party  in  the  house,  they  entered  the  chapel ;  and  after  the 
usual  forms  of  salutation,  Ratsimanisa  said  there  was 
a  letter  from  the  queen  to  the  Europeans,  adding,  ''  Most 
of  you  understand  the  Malagasy  language ;  if  there  are 
any  here  who  do  not,  the  others  can  translate  it  for  them." 
The  following  letter  was  then  read  : — 

•"To  ALL  THE  Europeans,  English  and  French. 

'"Antananarivo,  February  26,  1835. 

' "  I  inform  you,  my  friends  and  relations,  with  regard 
to  the  disposition  you  have  manifested  towards  my  country, 
in  teaching  the  good  disposition  and  knowledge,  I  thank 
you  for  that ;  it  is  highly  acceptable  to  me,  for  I  have 
observed  the  disposition  manifested  by  you  to  Radama, 
and  also  to  me,  that  you  have  not  changed. 

'  "And  I  also  inform  all  you  Europeans,  that  whilst  you 
reside  here  in  my  country,  you  may,  among  yourselves, 
observe  all  the  customs  (religious  observances),  of  your 
ancestors,  and  your  own  customs ;  and  do  not  entertain 
any  fears,  for  I  do  not  change  the  customs  of  your 
ancestors,  or  your  customs,  for  the  disposition  that  you 
have  manifested  to  my  country  is  good  :  however,  though 
I  state  that,  if  the  law  of  my  country  be  violated,  the  party 
is  guilty,  whoever  he  may  be  ;  nor  is  that  done  in  this 
country  only,  but  throughout  the  world,  wherever  the  law 
of  the  country  is  violated,  the  party  is  guilty. 


KABARY  OF  MARCH  7,   1S35  695 

"  And  further,  I  tell  you  explicitly,  that  if  these  people 
of  mine  should  change  the  customs  of  the  ancestors,  and 
that  which  has  been  transmitted  from  the  ancient  line 
of  my  predecessors,  and  from  Andrianimpoinimerina  and 
Radama,  if  they  should  change  that,  I  utterly  detest  it,  for 
that  which  has  been  established  by  my  ancestors,  I  cannot 
permit  to  be  changed :  I  am  neither  ashamed  nor  afraid 
to  maintain  the  customs  of  my  ancestors ;  but  if  there 
be  good  disposition  and  knowledge  that  may  be  beneficial 
to  my  country,  that  I  assent  to,  but  still  the  customs  of  my 
ancestors  I  cannot  allow  to  be  relinquished. 

"'And  hence,  then,  with  regard  to  religious  worship, 
whether  on  the  Sunday  or  not,  and  the  practice  of  baptism, 
and  the  existence  of  a  society  (or  societies),  those  things 
cannot  be  done  by  my  subjects,  in  my  country ;  but  with 
regard  to  yourselves,  as  Europeans,  do  that  which  accords 
with  the  customs  of  your  ancestors  and  your  own  customs. 
But  if  there  be  knowledge  of  the  arts  and  sciences,  that  will 
be  beneficial  to  my  subjects  in  the  country,  teach  that,  for 
it  is  good  ;  therefore  I  tell  you  of  this,  my  friends  and 
relations,  that  you  may  hear  of  it. 

' "  Saith  Ranavalomanjaka." 

'After  receiving  the  message  of  the  queen  contained  in 
her  letter,  the  Europeans  retired  from  the  chapel  to  their 
houses,  followed  by  many  of  the  native  Christians  over- 
whelmed with  grief  and  terror  ^' 

To  all  representations  and  pleadings  by  the  missionaries 
and  Europeans  the  queen  turned  a  deaf  ear.  A  kabary 
was  held  on  March  i,  1835,  and  a  royal  proclamation  was 
read  which  enjoined  all  who  had  '  observed  baptism,  entered 
into  society,  formed  separate  houses  for  prayer  (or  worship)' 
to  confess.  A  month  was  allowed,  and  the  penalty  for 
disobedience  was  death.  Few  were  found  strong  enough 
to  make  even  the  pretence  of  a  protest  against  this  despotic 
action.     The  vast  majority  hastened  to  accuse  themselves, 

^  A  N'arrativc  of  the  Persecution  of  the  Christians  in  Madagascar,  by  J.  J. 
Freeman  and  D.  Johns,  pp.  111-113. 


696  MADAGASCAR:  1S18-1S35 

and  were  most  concerned  to  find  such  excuses  for  their 
action  as  might  gain  them  favour  in  the  eyes  of  the  queen 
and  her  officers.  A  few  were  faithful,  affirming  that  in 
their  action  and  prayer  and  worship  as  Christians  they  did 
no  evil,  and  intended  none  to  the  queen  and  her  kingdom. 
One  gave  examples  of  his  prayers  to  the  judges,  and  even 
they  admitted  that  the  prayers  were  good ;  but  they 
affirmed  that  as  the  queen  did  not  approve  of  them  they 
oucrht  not  to  be  offered.  All  officers  who  had  followed 
Christian  customs  were  degraded,  and  in  the  course  of  the 
second  week  in  March  all  Christian  books  were  called  in 
on  pain  of  death.  '  It  would  be  impossible  to  describe 
the  sorrow  and  grief  of  some  of  the  people  when  delivering 
up  their  books.  Few,  perhaps,  actually  did  deliver  all  they 
had  ',  most  kept  either  a  psalter,  a  gospel,  a  hymn-book, 
a  tract,  or  a  catechism  ^' 

'The  members  of  the  mission  who  remained  continued 
to  impart  instruction  and  comfort  to  the  native  Christians, 
so  far  as  opportunities  could  be  found,  up  to  the  period 
of  their  departure  in  the  year  1836.  The  number  of 
converts  had  gradually  increased,  notwithstanding  the 
difficulties  they  laboured  under,  and  the  imminent  danger 
to  which  they  were  exposed.  The  forbidden  ordinance  of 
the  Lord's  Supper  was  occasionally  administered  to  them 
in  private  ;  and  several  received  baptism.  Their  expecta- 
tion of  being  shortly  left  without  a  teacher  urged  many 
of  them  to  diligence  in  reading  the  Scriptures ;  and  it  may 
be  affirmed  that  they  increased  in  spiritual  knowledge 
under  their  painful  and  disadvantageous  circumstances, 
even  more  than  they  had  done  before  the  publication  of  the 
edict  suppressing  Christianity.  A  bond  of  union  was  also 
formed  among  the  Christians  themselves  during  this  time 
of  trial.  They  were  supplied  with  a  copy  of  the  whole 
Bible.     Some  walked  upwards  of  100  miles  to  obtain  it^.' 

'  Before  the  final  departure  of  the  missionaries  from  the 
capital,  the  Pilgrims  Progress  was  translated  into  the 
Malagasy  language,  by  Mr.  Johns,  and  eight  copies  were 

'  ^^arrative,  p.  143.  ■^  Jbid.,  pp.  1^5^  j^g. 


COMPLETION  OF  THE   OLD    TESTAMENT       697 

written  out  by  some  of  the  Christian  natives  at  full  length, 
and  left  in  their  hands,  each  copy  being  made  the  joint 
property  of  several  individuals.  They  read  it  over  frequently, 
and  prized  it  next  to  the  Bible,  A  copy  of  it  was  sent 
forward  to  Mr.  Freeman,  then  in  England,  where  a  sub- 
scription was  made  by  various  friends  in  different  parts 
of  the  country  in  order  to  have  it  printed.  The  Religious 
Tract  Society  liberally  promoted  the  object,  and  j,coo 
copies  were  struck  off,  many  of  which  were  in  the  hands 
of  suffering  Malagasy  throughout  the  persecution  \' 

After  the  edict  and  the  kabary  which  suppressed 
Christianity  a  large  part  of  the  missionaries'  occupation 
was  gone.  '  The  only  thing  left  for  them  to  do  was  to 
complete  the  translation  and  printing  of  the  Scriptures. 
A  part  of  the  Old  Testament  was  as  yet  unfinished, 
namely,  from  Ezekiel  to  ]\Ialachi,  and  a  portion  of  Job. 
To  this  object  they  successfully  and  unremittingly  devoted 
their  energies,  resolved,  if  it  were  possible,  not  to  quit  the 
country  till  the  whole  of  the  Scriptures  were  complete  in 
the  Malagasy  language  ;  and,  happily,  they  saw  their 
determination  effected.  Mr.  Baker,  the  printer,  as  the 
sheets  of  the  translation  were  put  into  his  hand,  composed 
the  whole  himself  at  the  press,  as  the  natives  who  had 
been  taught  the  art  of  printing  were  no  longer  permitted 
to  assist  in  furtherance  of  any  such  design  -.'  '  Mr.  Kitching 
worked  off  the  sheets  at  the  press.  With  trembling  haste 
did  the  missionaries  proceed  with  their  task  ;  and  by  the 
end  of  June  they  had  the  joy  of  seeing  the  first  bound 
copies  of  the  complete  I^ible.  Most  of  these  Bibles  were 
secretly  distributed  among  the  converts ;  and  seventy 
remaining  copies  were  buried  for  greater  safety  in  the 
earth  ;  precious  seed  over  which  God  watched,  and  which 
in  due  time  produced  a  glorious  harvest.  The  translators 
were  driven  away ;  but  the  book  they  had  translated 
remained.  Studied  in  secret  and  at  the  risk  of  life,  this 
first  translation  served  during  more  than  a  quarter  of 
a  century  of  persecution  to  keep  alive  faith  in  the  newly 

^  A^arrative,  p.  148.  "'  Ibid.,  p.  151. 


698  MADAGASCAR:  181S-1S35 

received  religion.  In  the  thrilling  story  of  the  Martyr 
Church  one  fact  stands  out  with  great  clearness,  viz.  that 
as  intense  hatred  of  the  Bible  was  shown  by  the  perse- 
cuting queen  and  her  counsellors,  so  was  intense  love  of 
the  Bible  one  of  the  most  marked  characteristics  of  the 
persecuted  ^.' 

Unable  except  after  the  lapse  of  many  months  to  consult 
the  Directors,  in  these  trying  circumstances  the  missionaries 
had  to  act  according  to  their  own  best  judgment.  It  was 
evident  that  while  the  queen  and  her  advisers  adhered  to 
the  policy  of  reaction  and  idolatry,  little  Christian  work 
could  be  accomplished.  The  best  and  most  intelligent  of 
the  native  converts  advised  retirement  to  Mauritius,  at  any 
rate  for  a  time.  Freeman,  Cameron,  Chick,  and  Kitching 
left  in  June,  1835;  Baker  and  Johns  remained  until  July, 
1836.  Mr.  Baker  described  the  gloomy  close  of  the  first 
period  of  missionary  labour  in  the  island  in  a  letter  to  the 
Directors  :  '  That  year  was  a  year  of  suspense,  agony,  and 
pain  to  the  missionary  families  that  remained,  not  often 
paralleled  even  in  the  vicissitudes  of  the  history  of  missions. 
The  servants  of  the  missionaries  who  had  left  were  sub- 
jected to  the  murderous  ordeal  of  tangena,  and  two  of 
them  died.  An  infant  of  another  was  suffocated  the  day 
after  its  birth  by  the  queen's  express  orders,  on  account 
of  the  "  fatal  day "  of  its  birth.  The  oppressions  of  the 
Government  became  more  and  more  cruel.  Sunday  was 
especially  and  purposely  desecrated  by  public  works  and 
amusements.  Vice,  disease,  and  poverty  increased  fear- 
fully. 

'  In  the  mean  time,  those  who  had  preserved  their  faith 
in  the  word  of  God  became  gradually  known  to  us  and  to 
each  other.  Slowly  and  cautiously  did  they  open  their 
hearts  even  to  their  most  intimate  friends.  Sometimes 
a  recognition  took  place  by  a  reference  being  made  to  the 
words  in  Jeremiah  xxxviii.  15  :  "If  I  declare  it  unto  thee, 
wilt  thou  not  surely  put  me  to  death  ? "  To  which  the 
answer  would  be  from  the  following  verse  :  "  So  Zedekiah 

^  Madagascar  of  To-day,  by  W.  E.  Cousins,  p.  119. 


DEPARTURE   OE  MISSIONARIES  699 

sware  secretly  unto  Jeremiah,  saying.  As  the  Lord  liveth, 
that  made  us  this  soul,  I  will  not  put  thee  to  death,  neither 
will  I  give  thee  into  the  hand  of  these  men  that  seek  thy 
life." 

'  After  a  time  the  natives  began  to  hold  secret  meetings 
at  our  houses  and  their  own,  and  on  the  summits  of  solitary 
mountains,  whence,  amidst  the  treeless  hills  and  vales  of 
Imerina,  they  could  observe  the  approach  of  strangers  at 
a  very  remote  distance.  These  latter  were  their  favourite 
places  of  assembly,  since  they  could  there  freely  sing  to 
the  praise  of  their  God  and  Saviour  without  fear  of  being 
overheard,  and  none  so  well  as  afflicted  Christians  know 
how  soothing  oftentimes  to  the  afflicted  heart  is  the  lan- 
guage and  music  of  a  hymn. 

'At  length  July,  1836,  arrived,  when  the  Government 
expected  that  we  should  leave  of  our  own  accord.  We 
had  received  no  advice  from  the  Society,  and  it  seemed  to 
us  a  solemn  duty  to  bear,  by  our  voluntary  withdrawal, 
a  public  testimony  to  the  simplicity  and  integrity  of  our 
object  as  Christian  missionaries,  since  we  could  no  longer 
remain  in  our  missionary  capacity.  Accordingly,  after 
several  unsuccessful  efforts  to  obtain  from  the  Government 
even  the  most  restricted  permission  to  teach  and  print,  we 
decided,  for  a  period  at  least,  to  relinquish  the  mission. 
After  leaving  there  about  seventy  complete  Bibles,  and 
several  boxes  of  Psalters,  Testaments,  Spelling  and  Hymn 
Books,  Catechisms,  and  Tracts,  among  the  native  Christians, 
chiefly  buried  underground  for  greater  security,  we  sorrow- 
fully, and  in  great  depression  of  mind,  left,  and  reached 
Mauritius  in  September,  1836^.' 

Thus  ended  in  cloud  and  storm — almost  all  the  fair 
promise  of  the  first  great  awakening  blighted,  almost  all 
the  fruit  of  ten  years'  hard  toil  snatched  away — the  first 
period  of  Christian  toil  in  Madagascar. 

*  Narrative,  pp.  153,  154. 


CHAPTER    XXIX 

WHILE   'THE   LAND   WAS   DARK':    1836-1861 

The  story  of  the  persecutions  and  triumphs  of  the 
Madagascar  Church  whilst,  in  the  expressive  native  phrase, 
'  the  land  was  dark,'  has  often  been  told,  and  the  main 
incidents  are  familiar  to  all  who  have  paid  any  attention  to 
thq  progress  of  Madagascar.  Those  readers  who  desire 
to  refresh  their  memories  can  easily  do  so  by  re-reading 
Freeman  and  Johns'  Narrative,  and  Ellis'  Martyr  Church 
of  Madagascar. 

The  European  missionaries  were  exercised  in  the  first 
instance  about  the  causes  of  the  persecution,  and  in  the 
second  place  at  the  passivity  of  the  people  in  the  face  of 
such  despotic  Government  action.  Mr.  Baker,  in  a  '  Brief 
Account  of  the  Suppression  of  Christianity  in  Madagascar,' 
which  he  drew  up  in  November,  1835,  dwells  on  both  of 
these  points.  Return  to  absolute  heathenism  was,  of 
course,  the  settled  policy  of  the  queen  and  her  advisers. 
But  the  occasions  for  the  persecuting  outburst  in  March, 
1835,  were,  according  to  this  document — (i)  complaints  to 
the  queen  by  a  brutal  and  licentious  officer  of  hi.gh  rank, 
that  Christianity  induced  women  to  become  chaste  ;  (2) 
refusal  on  the  part  of  a  young  man,  even  though  com- 
pelled to  drink  the  tangena,  to  observe  a  heathen  sacred 
<^^y  5  (3)  two  female  relations  of  the  highest  officer  of  state 
told  him  that  a  charm  which  he  was  carrying  to  the  queen 
was  '  nothing.'  '  This  led  to  an  investigation  as  to  the 
bearing  of  Christian  doctrine  on  their  stupid  customs, 
which  soon  demonstrated  facts  of  which  the  Government 
had   been   previously  but  imperfectly  aware,  and    led    to 


FAITHFULNESS   OF  SOME   CONVERTS  701 

the  repressive  measures.'  Mr.  Baker  notes  that  whilst 
the  edict  revealed  a  very  much  wider  spread  of  Christian 
influence  than  any  of  the  missionaries  had  suspected,  no 
thought  of  resistance  entered  into  the  minds  of  the  large 
numbers  affected  by  the  queen's  proclamation.  Four 
hundred  officers  of  rank  were  degraded,  and  yet  '  not  an 
eftbrt  was  made  to  avert  the  persecution  or  to  oppose  the 
queen's  word.'  '  Loyalty  is  displayed  by  vociferous  and 
profane  and  impure  oaths,  with  scoffing  at  all  truth,  purity, 
and  piety.'  '  The  servile  submission  of  the  natives  is  almost 
incredible  to  us,  nurtured  under  the  British  flag.  I  asked 
an  old  man,  a  well-known  orator,  what  he  thought  of  the 
new  law.  He  appeared  amazed  and  said,  "  I,  a  Malagash, 
have  no  thought  (or  opinion).  What  the  sovereign  docs 
causes  her  to  be  thanked."  ' 

A  letter  from  the  pen  of  Mr.  Johns,  dated  June  19,  1835, 
indicates  how  matters  stood  after  the  first  shock  of  surprise 
and  terror  had  passed  : — 

'  Though  many  have  turned  back,  yet  we  have  from  forty 
to  fifty  who  walk  still  with  Jesus,  and  I  am  persuaded  that 
neither  tribulation  nor  distress,  persecutions  nor  dangers, 
shall  be  able  to  separate  them  from  the  love  of  Christ. 

'  We  may  class  Paul  and  his  wife  among  the  first  of  these 
— they  both  continue  to  walk  in  all  the  commandments 
and  ordinances  of  the  Lord  blameless.  All  the  young 
disciples  look  at  this  pious  couple  as  their  parents — they 
frequently  resort  to  their  house  to  converse  privately  on 
religious  subjects,  to  read  a  portion  of  the  Scriptures  and 
to  pray  ;  they  have  a  little  prayer-meeting  once  a  week 
held  about  the  middle  of  the  night  at  their  house.  I  never 
attended  any  of  these  private  meetings,  but  from  what 
I  have  repeatedly  heard  from  those  present,  I  can  say  that 
He  who  entered  the  house  when  the  doors  were  shut  and 
stood  in  the  midst  of  His  disciples  and  said  "  Peace  be  unto 
you  "  does  visit  His  poor  afflicted  people  in  these  private 
meetings  in  this  land. 

•  In  the  Vonizongo  district  are  several  faithful  followers 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  as  they  arc  at  some  distance  from  the 


702     IVHILE  'THE  LAND   WAS  DARK':  1836-1S61 

capital  they  are  more  bold  and  open  than  those  in  and 
about  Tananarivo.  A  great  many  from  that  district  did 
not  return  their  books,  and  I  may  say  that  all  of  them  kept 
some  portion  of  the  Scripture.  The  persons  that  gave  up 
the  idol  I  sent  you  did  not  give  up  a  single  book  of  theirs. 
Every  Sabbath  day  our  Christian  friends  there  meet  to- 
gether on  the  top  of  a  high  mountain  to  read  the  Bible,  to 
pray,  and  to  converse  on  religious  subjects.  On  the  top  of 
one  hill  there  are  ten  every  Sabbath,  and  on  the  top  of 
another  there  are  seven.  The  former  party  have  arranged 
a  cave  on  the  mountain  where  they  keep  a  great  part  of 
their  tracts  and  of  other  religious  books,  and  as  this  cave 
is  on  a  mountain  where  many  graves  are,  and  somewhat 
resembling  a  grave,  no  one  suspects  that  it  is  a  place 
arranged  to  keep  fianarana.  One  of  the  party  was  at  my 
house  yesterday  and  saw  a  complete  copy  of  the  Scripture 
bound  lying  on  the  table ;  he  took  it  up  in  his  hand  and 
pressed  it  again  and  again  to  his  bosom,  and  said,  with  tears 
in  his  eyes,  "You  must  give  me  this  sweet  book ;  Deny  me 
not  such  treasure.  I  will  take  it,  and  read  it,  and  keep  it, 
whatever  may  be  the  consequence."  He  put  it  under  his 
lamba  and  went  away  rejoicing.' 

Mr.  Chick,  in  a  letter  from  Cape  Town  dated  Oct.  34, 
1837,  quotes  several  letters  received  from  Malagasy  friends. 
Their  tenor  may  be  judged  from  one  extract : — 

'  My  father  is  dead  and  my  wife's  father,  and  my 
mother's  brother  also  :  this,  I  think,  is  comparatively  easy 
to  forget ;  but  there  is  a  certain  leading  thing  which  causes 
me  too  much  grief.  When  I  pass  by  Ambatonakanga 
(where  the  chapel  stands)  and  when  Saturday  arrives,  and 
business  to  be  done  on  the  Sabbath,  which  cannot  now  be 
refused,  this,  this  is  indeed  heavy  to  bear !  All  the  mis- 
sionaries are  gone,  for  their  work  is  ended  !  Oh,  when 
shall  we  again  behold  a  new  day  ?  Make  haste  the  promise 
which  says,  "  The  earth  shall  be  filled  with  the  knowledge 
of  the  Lord  as  the  waters  cover  the  sea" ;  that  the  broken 
heart,  which  is  now  too  heavy,  may  be  bound  up;  and  may 
the  power  of  Jehovah  quickly  appear,  that  all  may  see  it 


MARTYRDOM  OF  RASALAMA  703 

and  be  astonished  thereat !     Do  not  forget  to  pray  for  us, 
saith  your  friend  Ratsilaingia.' 

At  the  time  when  Johns  and  Baker  left  the  capital 
severe  persecution  was  directed  against  Rafaravavy,  a 
woman  of  rank  who  had  become  a  convert  prior  to  the 
proscription  of  Christianity.  Her  family,  and  she  among 
them,  had  been  devoted  in  an  exceptional  degree  to  the 
service  of  the  national  idols.  She  had  been  accused,  and 
upon  the  day  when  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Johns  left  Antananarivo 
she  was  pardoned  but  fined,  and  warned  that  if  again  found 
guilty  her  life  would  be  forfeited.  About  a  year  later,  she, 
with  ten  otherS;,  was  again  accused  of  praying  and  of  allow- 
ing others  to  pray  at  her  house.  Arrested,  she  refused  to 
betray  those  who  had  been  associated  with  her.  The 
officers  managed  to  entrap  into  revealing  these  names 
a  young  woman  named  Rasalama,  who  had  been  included 
in  the  same  impeachment,  who  revealed  the  names  of 
seven  Christians  hitherto  unknown  to  the  officials.  Amone 
these  was  a  former  diviner,  Raintsiheva  by  name,  memor- 
able in  Madagascar  annals  by  his  Christian  name  of  Paul. 
Rafaravavy  would  have  been  executed,  and  thus  have 
become  the  first  Christian  martyr  in  Madagascar,  but  for 
the  accident  of  a  great  fire  during  the  night  preceding  the 
time  fixed  for  her  execution.  In  the  confusion  caused  by 
the  fire  the  execution  of  her  sentence  was  deferred.  Rasa- 
lama, while  in  prison,  greatly  grieved  by  the  weakness 
which  had  led  her  to  betray  others,  uttered  words  which, 
on  being  reported  to  the  commander-in-chief,  determined 
him  to  put  her  to  death  at  once. 

'  She  was  ordered  for  execution  the  next  morning,  and 
on  the  previous  afternoon  was  put  in  irons,  which,  being 
fastened  to  the  feet,  hands,  knees,  and  neck,  confined  the 
whole  body  in  a  position  of  excruciating  pain.  In  the  early 
morning  she  sang  hymns  as  she  was  borne  along  to  the 
place  of  execution,  expressing  her  joy  in  the  knowledge  of 
the  Gospel ;  and,  on  passing  the  chapel  in  which  she  had 
been  baptized,  she  exclaimed,  "  There  I  heard  the  words 
of  the    Saviour."     After   being   borne   more  than   a   mile 


704    WHILE   'THE  LAND    WAS  DARK':   1S36-1S61 

farther,  she  reached  the  fatal  spot,  a  broad,  dry,  shallow 
fosse  or  ditch,  strewn  with  the  bones  of  previous  criminals, 
outside  what  was  formerly  a  fortification,  at  the  southern 
extremity  of  the  mountain  on  which  the  city  stands. 
Here,  permission  being  granted  her  to  pray,  Rasalama 
calmly  knelt  on  the  earth,  committed  her  spirit  into  the 
hands  of  her  Redeemer,  and  fell  with  the  executioners' 
spears  buried  in  her  body.  Her  intimate  companions 
were  in  prison  or  concealment,  but  one  faithful  and  loving 
friend  who  witnessed  her  calm  and  peaceful  death,  when 
he  returned,  exclaimed,  "  If  I  might  die  so  tranquil  and 
happy  a  death,  I  would  willingly  die  for  the  Saviour  too." 
So  suffered,  on  August  14,  1837,  Rasalama,  the  first  who 
died  for  Christ  of  the  Martyr  Church  of  Madagascar; 
which,  in  its  early  infancy,  thus  received  its  baptism  of 
blood  1.' 

After  the  death  of  Rasalama  200  Christians  were  sold 
into  slavery.  Rafaravavy  was  also  sold,  but  her  owner, 
so  long  as  she  did  her  allotted  task,  allowed  her  much 
personal  liberty.  Among  those  who  had  witnessed  Rasa- 
lama's  martyrdom,  and  probably  the  only  Christian  who 
had  the  courage  to  be  present,  was  the  young  man  referred 
to  above,  named  Rafaralahy,  who  had  been  in  the  habit  of 
receiving  Christians  for  worship  at  his  house  near  the 
capital.  This  man  was  betrayed  by  a  former  friend,  an 
apostate  who  owed  him  money,  and  who  took  this  means 
of  cancelling  his  debt. 

'  After  being  confined  in  heavy  irons  for  three  days  he 
was  taken  out  for  execution.  On  the  way  he  spoke  to  the 
officers  of  the  love  and  mercy  of  Christ,  and  of  his  own 
happiness  in  the  prospect  of  so  soon  seeing  that  divine 
Redeemer  who  had  loved  him  and  died  to  save  his  soul. 
Having  reached  the  place  of  execution,  the  same  spot  on 
which  Rasalama,  nearly  twelve  months  before,  had  suffered, 
he  spent  the  last  moments  of  his  life  in  supplication  for  his 
country  and  his  persecuted  brethren,  and  in  commending 
his  soul  to  his  Saviour.     As  he   rose  from  his  knees  the 

'   7'he  Martyr  Church,  by  W.  Ellis,  pp.  121,  122. 


MALAGASY  REFUGEES   l\  EXGLAXD  705 

executioners  were  preparing,  as  was  customary,  to  throw 
him  on  the  ground,  when  he  said  that  was  needless,  he 
was  prepared  to  die  ;  and  quietly  laying  himself  down  he 
was  instantly  put  to  death,  his  friends  being  afterwards 
allowed  to  inter  his  body  in  the  ancestral  grave  ^' 

Rafaralahy's  wife  was  seized,  cruelly  beaten,  and  com- 
pelled to  name  those  who  had  frequented  his  house. 
Rafaravavy,  one  of  these,  fled,  and  by  the  aid  of  native 
friends  finally  reached  Tamatave.  There,  by  the  aid  of 
sympathetic  friends  among  the  Europeans,  with  six  other 
Christians,  she  escaped  to  Mauritius  in  safety.  Five  of 
these,  including  Rafaravavy,  visited  England,  and  were 
present  at  a  great  meeting  at  Exeter  Hall  on  June  4.  1^39. 
Their  presence  centred  extraordinary  interest  upon  Mada- 
gascar, and  indirectly  upon  the  general  work  of  the  Societ}\ 
The  refugees  were  accompanied  by  Mr.  Johns.  They 
returned  to  Mauritius  in  1842,  and  undertook  work  theie 
among  the  many  Malagasy  slaves  in  that  island. 

The  next  series  of  martyrdoms  occurred  in  1840.  David 
Griffiths  had  been  allowed  to  return  to  Antananarivo  as 
a  trader,  and  he,  in  connection  with  Dr.  Powell,  whom 
business  brought  to  Madagascar,  did  all  in  their  power  to 
aid  those  whose  Christian  faith  brought  their  lives  into 
jeopardy.  In  May,  1840,  sixteen  of  the  proscribed  made 
an  attempt  to  reach  the  coast.  Unhappily  they  were 
betrayed,  captured,  and,  five  weeks  after  their  flight,  they 
were  brought  back.  Two  managed  to  escape.  Of  the 
rest,  on  July  9,  1840,  nine  were  executed.  David  Jones, 
the  veteran  missionary,  was  then  in  the  capital,  and  a  letter 
from  his  pen  dated  July  jo,  describes  the  painful  \ct 
glorious  event : — 

'After  my  arrival  in  the  capital  on  the  3rd,  I  was  told 
that  there  were,  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  town  near 
Ifaliarivo,  sixteen  of  the  Christians  in  bonds  waiting  their 
trial.  They  had  been  hiding  themselves  from  their  perse- 
cutors for  nearly  two  years,  but  some  months  ago  made 
up  their  minds  to  try  and  escape,  if  possible,  and  flee  to 

'    The  Martyr  ChitrcJi,  p.  \l\. 

I.  z  z 


7o6    WHILE  '  THE  LAND   WAS  DARK  \-   1S36-1S61 

Mauritius ;  but,  alas  !  after  they  had  proceeded  safely 
within  three  or  four  days'  journey  to  Tamatave,  they  were 
caught,  bound,  and  brought  back  to  the  capital  to  be  tried. 
Two  of  them,  a  man  and  a  woman,  made  their  escape  in  the 
night  while  the  guard  was  sound  asleep,  and  their  enemies 
have  not  been  able  yet  to  find  them  out  anywhere.  The 
others  were  tried  and  examined  one  after  another  apart, 
but  they  all  stood  firm  like  a  rock.  At  length,  nine  of 
them  were  condemned  to  die.  On  the  morning  of  the  9th 
July,  there  was  a  tremendous  roar  of  cannon,  and  thousands 
of  soldiers  began  to  march  towards  the  parade  ground  ; 
about  noon,  the  first  officers  went  forth  to  deliver  the  kabary 
respecting  the  sixteen  Christians  who  had  attempted  to 
flee  to  the  Mauritius,  and  to  proclaim  that  the  queen  had 
ordered  nine  of  them  to  be  put  to  death  publicly  this  after- 
noon. There  was  much  firing  of  cannon  all  the  day  at  in- 
tervals, the  meaning  of  which  was  not  generally  understood. 
Between  three  and  four  o'clock,  as  Messrs.  Grififiths  and 
Campbell  were  standing  together  on  the  balcony  of  Mr.  G.'s 
house,  they  saw  a  number  of  people  coming  along  the  road  ; 
the  nine  Christians  were  borne  by  men  quite  naked,  each 
being  tied  under  a  pole,  and  the  bearers  stood  for  a  little 
time  opposite  Mr.  Griffiths'  house.  Mr.  G.,  being  unable 
to  bear  the  sight,  withdrew  into  the  house,  together  with 
his  son,  shedding  tears  with  a  heavy  heart,  and  they  were 
carried  then  opposite  the  house  of  Mr.  Johns.  Mr.  Griffiths 
came  up  to  my  house  (about  forty  yards  behind  his  own) 
to  tell  me  the  distressing  news  ;  and  while  we  were  lament- 
ing and  mingling  our  tears  together,  they  returned  back, 
and  stood  for  some  time  again  opposite  Mr.  G.'s  house  ; 
then  carried  them  along  the  west  side  of  the  town  to 
Ambohipotsy,  the  place  of  execution  ;  and,  after  a  short 
interval,  a  cannon  was  fired  for  a  signal,  the  executioner  ap- 
proached, the  nine  were  instantly  speared  to  death,  and 
their  spirits  fled  to  eternal  glory.  Paul  and  his  wife,  Joshua 
and  his  wife,  and  Flora  or  Raminahy  were  of  the  number 
of  these  martyrs.  The  names  of  the  others  I  have  not 
been  able  yet  to  ascertain.     The  head  of  Paul  and  that  of 


MARTYRDOMS   OF  1840  707 

another  man  were  cut  off  and  fixed  on  poles.  The  cannon 
that  was  fired  for  the  signal  to  spear  them  burst  into  pieces, 
and  the  man  that  fired  it  was  seriously  burnt,  which  was 
considered  by  many  as  a  bad  omen,  especially  those  who 
tremble  with  terror.  Our  friends,  being  so  terrified  and 
watched  by  spies,  dare  not  come  near  me  in  the  house, 
and  my  guard  of  honour  will  not  allow  any  native  to  enter 
the  house,  except  those  who  serve  me  and  work  for  me. 
I  have  not  known  yet,  correctly,  what  is  become  of  the 
other  five ;  it  has  been  said  that  they  are  in  slavery,  but  it 
is  not  certain.' 

Mr.  Griffiths  was  ordered  to  leave  the  island  in  Septem- 
ber, and  Mr.  Jones  left  Madagascar  shortly  after  these 
tragic  scenes.  He  died  at  Mauritius  on  May  i,  1841.  It 
must  have  tried  his  faith  and  have  torn  his  heart  to  see  the 
island,  where  he  had  spent  so  many  years  of  toil,  endured 
such  heavy  sorrows,  and  had  sown  the  seeds  of  so  promising 
a  harvest,  groaning  under  such  a  merciless  despotism.  He 
had  laboured,  and  in  God's  time  other  men  were  to  reap 
plentifully  the  harvest  of  which  he  himself  saw  only  a 
promise,  and  even  that  appearing  to  vanish  away. 

Shortly  after  David  Jones  died,  his  old  friend  and 
colleague,  David  Johns,  also  passed  away.  He  had  re- 
turned from  England  to  Mauritius  in  1840,  and  he  spent 
the  next  two  years  in  fruitless  endeavours  to  establish 
a  settlement  on  that  part  of  the  coast  of  Madagascar  then 
under  French  influence.  In  this  he  was  unsuccessful,  and 
he  died  on  the  island  of  Nosibe,  off  the  north-west  coast, 
on  August  6,  1843.  Before  Mr.  Johns  died,  he  asked  to 
be  buried  at  Tafondro,  a  place  from  which  Madagascar 
could  be  seen  to  great  advantage.  Dying,  he  expressed 
his  faith  that  the  island  so  well  seen  from  his  grave  was 
the  inheritance  of  Christ,  and  that  there  His  name  would 
yet  be  revered  by  multitudes. 

With  the  departure  of  Mr.  Griffiths,  and  the  deaths  of 
his  former  colleagues,  the  Christians  were  almost  wholly 
cut  off  from  intercourse  with  the  Christian  world.  But 
they  were  ever  in  the  hearts  and  the  prayers  of  myriads  of 

Z  z  2 


7o8    WHILE   'THE  LAND    WAS  DARK':   1836-1S61 

fellow  believers  all  over  the  globe.  One  most  hopeful  sign 
was  that  during  the  apparent  triumph  of  the  powers  of 
darkness  the  Church  grew  steadily.  Even  the  heir  to  the 
throne  himself  came  under  the  influence  of  Christian  truth, 
as  did  also  his  relative  Prince  Ramonja.  '  Not  a  few,' 
writes  Mr.  Ellis^  'residing  in  country  places  repaired  to 
the  mountains,  amongst  which  the  Christians  were  in 
concealment,  to  ask  instruction,  and  to  unite  in  their 
worship.  The  believers  who  had  been  put  in  chains  were 
kept  in  their  own  houses^  under  guards  of  soldiers ;  but 
their  friends  and  others  had  free  access  to  them.  With 
these  the  prisoners  conversed,  and  prayed,  and  praised  the 
Lord.  They  read  the  Holy  Scriptures,  explaining  and 
enforcing  their  saving  truths.  The  Christians  declared 
that  sweet  were  their  bonds  when  so  employed  ;  and  God 
blessed  these  sermons  delivered  by  preachers  in  chains. 
Numbers  received  the  word  in  love  and  faith  ;  and  some, 
even  among  the  soldiers  appointed  to  guard  the  prisoners, 
were  also  converted  to  Christ  \' 

All  through  this  period  accused  Christians  were  often 
compelled  to  drink  the  tangena,  and  many  of  them  died. 
But  it  was  not  until  1849  that  another  fierce  wave  of  per- 
secution rolled  over  the  infant  Church.  On  February  19, 
1849,  two  houses  belonging  to  Prince  Ramonja  which  had 
been  used  for  Christian  worship  were  destroyed,  and  eleven 
Christians  cast  into  prison.  A  kabary  was  held  at  Ando- 
halo,  and  once  again  Christians  were  ordered  to  accuse 
themselves.  In  Vonizongo,  a  noble  named  Rainitraho 
and  others  refused  to  worship  the  idols,  and  eighteen  were 
condemned  to  death  at  Analakely.  It  is  encouraging  to 
note  that  the  judge  who  condemned  them,  and  whom 
Mr.  p:ilis  met  during  his  visit  in  1856,  had  by  1869  become 
a  Christian  and  a  catechumen  in  the  church  at  Amparibe, 
under  the  charge  of  Mr.  W.  E.  Cousins. 

'  1  he  four  nobles,  two  of  whom  were  husband  and  wife, 
were  sentenced  to  be  burned  alive  at  Faravohitra,  the  last 
village  on  the  northern  end  of  the  mountain  on  which  the 

'   The  Marly r  Chicrch,  pp.  i6o,  i6i. 


MARTYRDOMS  AT  AMPAmARINANA  709 

city  is  built.  The  fourteen  others  of  inferior  rank  were 
sentenced  to  be  hurled  from  the  edge  of  Ampamarinana. 
a  rock  to  the  west  of  the  palace,  and  their  wives  and 
children  to  be  sold  into  irredeemable  slavery.  The 
remaining  sentences  included  labour  in  chains  for  life, 
inflicted  on  117  persons,  with  public  flogging  on  105 
of  their  number.  Fines,  equivalent  to  one-half  of  their 
value  if  sold  into  slavery,  were  imposed  on  sixty-four.  A 
fine  of  three  oxen  and  three  dollars  was  inflicted  on  1,643 
persons  for  attending  Christian  worship.  Prince  Ramonja, 
holding  high  rank  in  the  army,  was,  for  the  same  offence, 
fined  100  dollars,  and  reduced  to  the  rank  of  a  common 
soldier.  One  of  the  officers  of  the  palace  was  deprived 
of  his  rank  and  fined  fifty  dollars  ;  as  were  all  other  officers 
in  the  army  or  the  civil  service  of  Government,  and  reduced 
to  the  lowest  grade.  The  total  number  of  those  on  whom 
one  or  other  of  the  sentences  was  pronounced  on  this 
occasion  amounted,  at  the  least  computation^  to  1.9C3, 
but  by  some  accounts  it  is  nearer  3,000  ^.' 

In  1 853  Mr.  Ellis  and  Mr.  Cameron  visited  Tamatave, 
but  were  not  allowed  to  journey  to  the  capital.  In  June, 
1854,  Mr.  Ellis  again  went  to  Tamatave,  and  during  a  stay 
there  of  some  weeks  saw  many  Christian  refugees,  and  was 
enabled  to  do  something  to  sustain  the  courage  and  the 
hope  of  the  persecuted  natives. 

In  July,  i?>56,  Mr.  Ellis  visited  the  island  again,  was 
allowed  to  visit  the  capital,  which  he  reached  on  August  25, 
and  where  he  stayed  until  September  26.  He  saw  much 
to  confirm  the  reports  of  the  constancy  of  the  disciples, 
which  had  reached  England  from  time  to  time.  While 
fully  aware  of  the  dangers  to  which  the  Christian  natives 
were  exposed,  he  and  other  friends  of  Madagascar  were 
hopeful  that  matters  would  now  improve,  especially  as  the 
prince  royal  was  known  to  be  so  favourably  disposed 
towards  Christianity.  But  these  hopes  were  speedily 
overclouded.  In  July,  i^^j7,  a  renewed  and  even  firmer 
outbreak  of  persecution  occurred. 

'    The  Martyr  Church,  pp.  16S,  169. 


7IO    WHILE  'THE  LAND   IVAS  DARK':  18B6-1S61 

*More  than  200  suffered  different  kinds  of  punishment, 
most  of  them  severe.  The  greater  number  of  those  who 
suffered  death  were  men  of  mark,  distinguished  among  the 
Christians  for  their  position,  piety,  devotedness,  abiHty,  and 
usefulness.  Fourteen  were  stoned  to  death  at  Fiadanana, 
more  than  a  mile  distant  from  Ambohipotsy,  as  were  also 
others  afterwards.  Fifty-seven,  if  not  a  larger  number, 
were  chained  together  by  the  neck  with  heavy  iron  fetters, 
and  banished  to  distant  parts,  where  more  than  half  of 
them  died  a  lingering,  agonizing  death  in  their  chains^.' 

But  the  dawn  was  at  hand.  On  July  16,  1861,  Ranava- 
lona  died,  and  one  of  the  first  acts  of  Radama  II  after  his 
accession  was  to  proclaim  religious  liberty  to  all  his 
subjects.  Heathenism  and  superstition  had  done  their 
worst,  but  once  again  Christianity  had  triumphed.  Force 
had  utterly  failed  to  stamp  out  the  faith  and  loyalty  and 
love  to  Jesus  Christ,  which  His  own  Word  and  the  faithful 
ministrations  of  His  servants  had  planted  in  many  hearts. 
Steadily  through  the  long  years  of  trial  the  Malagasy 
Church  grew,  both  in  the  number  and  in  the  quality  of  its 
adherents. 

'   The  Martyr  Church,  p.  220. 

[Authorities  :— Letters,  Official  Reports,  Annual  Reports;  A  Narrative 
of  the  Persecutions  of  the  Christians  in  Madagascar^  by  J.  J.  Freeman ;  The 
Martyr  Church  of  Madagascar,  by  W.  Ellis.] 


CHAPTER    XXX 

MADAGASCAR   REOPENED    TO   THE    GOSPEL 

The  tidings  of  Ranavalona's  death,  the  accession  of 
Radama,  and  the  consequent  reopening-  of  the  island 
to  missionary  enterprise,  reached  Mr.  Ellis  in  his  quiet 
and  peaceful  home  at  Rose  Hill,  Hoddesdon,  on  October 
8,  iH6i.  They  also  aroused  intense  interest  and  expectancy 
both  in  the  Board  of  Directors  and  amonij  all  the  friends 
of  the  Society.  At  the  earh"est  possible  moment  the 
Directors  were  called  together,  and  the  record  of  a  memor- 
able meeting  runs : — 

'  The  Board  having  been  specially  summoned  on  Monday, 
October  [4,  1861,  to  consider  the  present  circumstances 
of  Madagascar,  and  the  course  which  it  behoves  the 
Directors  to  take,  the  important  letters  lately  received 
from  Mauritius  and  Madagascar  were  read.  After 
lengthened  consideration  it  was  resolved — 

'  That  this  Board  cannot  receive  the  important  communi- 
cations now  made  to  them  without  recording  their  devout 
gratitude  to  the  God  of  Providence  and  Grace  for  sustaining 
His  faithful  servants  in  Madagascar  during  the  protracted 
period  of  severe  suffering  and  danger  through  which  they 
have  been  spared,  for  preserving  the  life  of  the  prince  and 
permitting  him  to  ascend  the  throne,  and  for  the  answers 
now  vouchsafed  to  their  prayers  in  reopening  that  country 
to  the  labours  of  Christian  men. 

'  That,  impressed  with  the  solemn  obligation  resting 
upon  them  to  employ  the  most  prompt  and  vigorous 
measures  for  securing,  at  the  earliest  practical  period, 
the  resumption   of  the    Society's   mission   in    that   island, 


712    MADAGASCAR  REOPENED   TO   THE   GOSPEL 

the  Directors  appoint  a  sub-committee  to  confer  with 
Mr.  ElHs  upon  the  whole  case,  and  as  the  Mauritius  mail 
will  sail  before  the  next  Board  meeting,  they  be  authorized 
and  instructed  to  address  in  their  name  a  letter  to  the 
King  of  Madagascar,  conveying  to  him  their  sentiments 
upon  his  accession  to  the  throne,  and  their  desire,  as  soon 
as  his  permission  is  obtained,  to  send  missionaries  to 
Tananarivo  and  other  parts  of  his  dominions,  and  further 
that  the  sub-committee  use  their  best  endeavours  to  ensure 
the  safe  conveyance  of  this  communication  to  the  capital. 

'  That  communication  be  opened  with  the  Right  Hon. 
\\7i\-\  Russell,  Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
acquainting  him  with  the  favourable  sentiments  with  which 
the  Directors  have  reason  to  believe  the  King  of  Mada- 
gascar regards  this  country,  and  expressing  the  hope  that 
Her  Majesty's  Government  will  use  their  utmost  influence 
to  prevent  the  establishment  of  a  French  Protectorate  in 
tliat  island,  should  such  a  project  be  entertained. 

'At  the  next  regular  Board  meeting,  on  Tuesday, 
October  ii,  i86t,  the  folJowing  recommendation  was  read 
from  the  sub-committee  with  other  members  of  the  Board 
whom  they  had  invited  to  join  them,  and  who  met  on 
the  2 1st  inst. : — 

'  That  in  the  judgment  of  this  committee  it  is  of  great 
moment  that  the  Society  should  at  the  present  time  be 
well  represented  at  the  Mauritius.  They  therefore  recom- 
mend the  Board  to  present  their  most  urgent  request 
to  the  Rev.  William  Ellis  to  proceed  to  that  island  by 
the  November  mail,  with  a  view  in  every  practicable  way 
to  open  communications  with  Madagascar.' 

Mr.  Ellis  saw  in  these  resolutions  a  call  not  to  be  resisted, 
and  began  to  prepare  at  once  for  a  prolonged  visit  to 
Antananarivo.  At  his  advanced  age,  with  illness  in  his 
family,  the  mission  involving,  as  it  did,  a  long  separation 
from  his  wife  and  home,  the  sacrifice  and  devotion  of  this 
I)rompt  action  on  the  part  of  the  veteran  were  very  great. 
Radama  had  bei^un  his  reign  in  a  way  that  held  out  at 
first  most  hopeful  prospects  for  the  future.    He  had  invited 


MJSSIOXS  REOPEXED   IN  1S62  713 

foreigners  to  return,  and  had  issued  a  proclamation  giving 
full  religious  liberty  to  all  his  subjects.  Further  news 
from  the  island  stimulated  the  Directors'  zeal.  On 
September  20,  1861,  the  Governor  of  Mauritius  informed 
his  council  that  Radama  II  bad  sent  him  a  letter  express- 
ing his  desire  for  '  a  freer  intercourse  with  the  colony'  and 
intimating  that  '  any  congratulatory  message  would  be 
favourably  received.'  In  consequence  of  this  a  deputation 
was  sent  conveying  assurances  of  Queen  Victoria's  good 
will,  and  bearing  appropriate  presents.  The  king  and  his 
prime  minister,  Rahaniraka,  wrote  in  English  to  Mr. 
Le  Brun,  stating  that  steps  had  already  been  taken  to 
re-establish  schools.  The  aged  missionary's  son,  Rev. 
John  J.  Le  Brun,  accompanied  by  two  Malagasy  evangc- 
hsts,  at  once  proceeded  to  Antananarivo. 

In  1  853.  when  it  had  appeared  possible  that  the  queen 
might  relent  towards  Christianity,  a  sum  of  ^^7,000  had 
been  raised.  This  fund  had  been  kept  intact,  and  was 
ready  for  immediate  use.  The  Directors  decided  that 
Mr.  Ellis  should  go  to  Antananarivo  at  once,  and  pledged 
themselves  to  reopen  the  mission  with  a  strong  and 
capable  band  of  Christian  workers  as  soon  as  possible. 
Mr.  Ellis  left  London  on  November  20,  1861,  and  the 
Directors  appealed  for  not  less  than  six  workers  ready 
to  start  in  the  spring  of  1862.  These  were  to  include 
a  doctor,  an  educational  superintendent,  and  a  printer. 

Mr.  Ellis  w^as  detained  some  time  at  Mauritius  by  the 
fact  that  had  he  gone  straight  to  Tamatave,  he  would  have 
landed  in  the  height  of  the  fever  season.  He  reached 
Antananarivo  in  June,  1862. 

A  large  missionary  party  was  sent  to  the  aid  of  ]\Ir. 
I'^Uis  in  1862,  viz.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Toy,  Dr.  Andrew  Davidson 
and  Mrs.  Davidson,  the  Rev.  John  Duffus,  the  Rev.  W.  \\. 
Cousins,  Mr.  John  Parrett,  and  Mr.  C.  H.  Stagg.  Dr.  David- 
son was  a  medical  missionary,  and  began  work  in  what  had 
been  Mr.  Cameron's  house.  Mr.  Parrett  was  a  printer, 
and  Mr.  Stagg  a  schoolmaster.  With  the  arrival  of  these 
friends,    the    reorganization    of     the    mission     proceeded 


71+    MADAGASCAR  REOPENED   TO   THE   GOSPEL 

rapidly.  All  of  these,  except  two,  rendered  long  and 
useful  service.  Mr.  Cousins  is  still  (1^98)  the  senior 
member  of  the  mission.  One,  Mr.  Duffus,  early  proved 
unequal  to  the  strain  of  life  among  the  Malagasy,  and  his 
connection  with  the  Society  was  severed  November  26, 
1863.  Mr.  Stagg,  after  a  little  more  than  a  year  of 
useful  educational  work,  died  on  February  5,  1864. 

The  reopening  of  Madagascar  to  the  Gospel  stirred  up  in 
other  churches  a  strong  desire  to  share  in  Christian  work. 
Even  before  the  arrival  of  Mr.  Ellis,  Roman  Catholic  priests 
and  workers  had  reached  the  capital.  From  the  first,  these 
agents  pursued  the  invariable  policy  of  Rome.  They 
denounced  Protestantism,  they  attempted  to  secure  the 
direction  of  affairs,  and  they  showed  no  scruples  in  the 
means  they  adopted  to  secure  their  ends. 

French  political  agents  were  also  already  on  the  spot, 
and  active  in  their  efforts,  only  too  successful,  to  gain  an 
influence  over  the  king,  and  to  aggrandize  France.  The 
French  consul  was  M.  Laborde,  and  in  close  association 
with  him  was  a  M.  Lambert,  who,  in  1857,  had  been  banished 
by  Ranavalona  because  detected  in  a  plot  to  dethrone  her. 
Mr.  Pakenham,  the  English  consul,  contrary  to  all  reason- 
able expectation,  took  the  side  of  the  French  as  against 
Mr.  Ellis,  and  did  all  in  his  power  to  lower  the  missionary's 
influence  and  to  weaken  his  authority. 

The  coronation  of  Radama  took  place  in  September, 
1862,  and  was  attended  by  special  embassies  from  the 
British  and  French  Governments.  The  Bishop  of  Mauritius 
was  a  member  of  the  former,  and  was  charged  with  the 
duty  of  presenting  to  Radama  from  Queen  Victoria,  a 
handsomely  bound  copy  of  the  Bible,  inscribed  with  her 
autograph. 

In  a  letter  dated  August  23,  1862,  Mr.  Ellis  depicts  the 
religious  condition  of  the  island,  and  the  action  which  he 
so  earnestly  desired  to  take  in  relation  to  it.  He,  not 
unnaturally,  took  a  somewhat  sanguine  view  of  the  future, 
and  in  this  letter  he  refers  to  the  matter  of  the  memorial 
churches.     '  I  sent  to  the  king,'  he  writes,  '  in  January  last, 


CONDITION  OF  MISSION  IN  1S63  715 

to  ask  him  to  reserve  the  places  on  which,  during  the  last 
twenty-six  years,  the  martyrs  had  suffered,  as  sites  for 
memorial  churches  which  should  not  only  be  consecrated 
to  the  worship  and  service  of  the  blessed  God  and  Saviour, 
for  love  of  whom  they  died,  but  should  serve  also  to 
perpetuate  the  memory  of  their  constancy  and  love.' 
Mr.  Ellis  in  this  letter,  which  has  been  printed  \  as  might 
have  been  expected  under  the  circumstances,  gave  a  some- 
what highly  coloured  picture  of  a  Madagascar  inflamed 
with  desire  for  the  Gospel.  It  may  be  well,  as  an  aid  to 
the  better  understanding  of  the  later  history  of  Malagasy 
Christianity,  to  place  on  record  the  accounts  given  at  the 
same  period  by  two  competent  observ^ers. 

Mr.  W.  E.  Cousins,  in  a  letter  from  Amparibe,  dated 
March  23,  1863,  stated  that  his  first  impressions  of  the 
religious  character  of  the  people  were  favourable :  the 
chapels  were  crowded  with  attentive  and  earnest  hearers  ; 
in  his  own  chapel  at  Amparibe,  there  was  an  average 
attendance  of  3,200.  But  after  impressions  were  not  so 
favourable.  A  large  number  only  saw  that  Christianity 
was  superior  to  their  own  system  of  sikidy  and  charms,  and 
were  not  Christians  at  all,  except  in  the  most  vague  and 
general  sense.  Out  of  his  300  church  members,  about  150 
had  joined,  to  whom  the  'light  of  liberty'  came  with 
Radama.  The  other  150,  who  had  dared  to  confess  Christ 
when  it  was  dangerous,  though  more  mature  Christians, 
were  only  just  '  coming  into  the  light.  Even  those  who 
endured  persecution  are  weak,  and  easily  turned  aside. 
Prosperity  tries  them  in  a  new  way,  and  they  are  easily 
stumbled.  Although  Christianity  is  working  powerfully, 
there  is  still  persecution  of  a  private  nature — fathers  perse- 
cuting their  children  for  attending  the  chapel. ' 

Mr.  Toy,  in  a  letter  dated  March  28,  1863,  says:  'To 
what  extent  corruption  existed  was  for  a  long  time  utterly 
unknown  to  us,  and  perhaps  is  far  from  being  wholly 
known  to  us  at  present.  There  was  scarcely  an  attempt 
at  discipline,  and  the  entire  management  devolved  chiefly 

'  See  Chronicle,  1862    p.  328. 


7i6    MADAGASCAR  REOPENED   TO   THE   GOSPEL 

upon  the  wealthier  natives,  who  constituted  themselves  as 
leaders  and  rulers.  They  evidently  regarded  the  Church 
as  they  regarded  a  party  in  the  State,  of  which  they  were 
the  heads;  and  had  Radama  II  been  like  Henry  VIII  or 
Elizabeth  of  England,  the  Church  would  have  become 
unresistingly,  if  not  gladly,  a  part  of  the  State.  Happily 
for  the  spiritual  welfare  of  the  Church,  the  present  ruler 
had  too  much  discretion,  and  entirely  discouraged  any 
attempt  to  establish  a  hierarchy  with  himself  at  the  head.' 

While  matters  were  in  this  condition,  and  almost  before 
the  new  workers  had  begun  to  feel  at  home  in  their  work, 
events  rapidly  led  up  to  political  revolution.  The  keepers 
of  idols,  exasperated  at  the  progress  of  Christianity,  de- 
veloped a  cunning  device  for  working  upon  the  superstitious 
fears  of  both  king  and  people.  They  employed  a  consider- 
able number  of  persons,  whose  adherence  they  had  secured 
by  bribes,  to  simulate  a  '  new  disease,'  of  epidemic  character, 
which  had  all  the  appearance  of  madness,  combined  with 
powers  of  prophecy  and  of  communicating  with  the  spirits 
of  the  dead.  They  told  the  king  that  his  ancestors  had 
appeared  to  them  to  warn  him,  by  their  agency,  that 
unless  Christianity  was  stamped  out  ruin  would  overwhelm 
him  and  the  nation.  They  ran,  half-clothed,  about  the 
streets,  brandishing  weapons  of  various  kinds  to  the  danger 
of  all  whom  they  met.  The  king,  instigated  probably  by 
the  idol-keepers  and  the  anti-Christian  party,  and  with  his 
credulity  and  superstitious  fears  fully  aroused,  ordained 
that  these  '  infected  '  persons  should  be  allowed  to  carry 
their  weapons  without  interference,  and  that  if  they  injured 
or  killed  any  one,  they  were  not  to  be  arrested  or  punished. 

The  king's  character  was  the  main  factor  in  the  position 
of  affairs.  Erom  his  record  during  Ranavalona's  reign  there 
was  a  reasonable  expectation  that  he  might  himself  expe- 
rience the  regenerating  power  of  Divine  grace.  But  this 
was  not  to  be.  Prosperity  and  absolute  power  proved 
fatal  to  any  seeds  of  goodness  which  had  seemed  to  take 
root  in  his  heart.  Radama  invariably  exhibited  the  greatest 
cordiality  to  Mr.  Ellis.     The  veteran  missionary's  influence 


ASSASSINATION  OF  RADAMA   II  717 

over  him  was  very  great  with  regard  to  the  external  affairs 
of  the  mission.  Christianity  was  allowed  full  toleration. 
Mr.  Ellis  enjoyed  the  fullest  and  freest  access  to  the  king. 
But  on  the  other  hand  those  of  his  nobles  who  were  rather 
hostile  than  friendly  towards  Christianity,  and  some  of  the 
French  residents  who  gained  influence  with  him,  pandered 
to  his  weakness — fleshly  indulgence.  Radama  gave  himself 
up  to  drunkenness  and  to  a  sensual  excess  possible,  perhaps, 
only  to  a  Malagasy,  and  the  inevitable  result  followed — his 
kingship  hastened  to  ruin.  His  intellect  appeared  enlight- 
ened enough  to  understand  and  approve  Christianity  ;  but 
his  heart  was  so  weakened  by  self-indulgence,  and  so  en- 
slaved by  vile  passions,  that  he  grew  worse  day  by  day. 
The  most  charitable  view  is  that  his  mind  had  begun  to  give 
way.  The  attempted  revival  of  heathenism  in  the  form  of 
a  dancing  mania  brought  matters  to  a  crisis.  Radama 's 
justification  of  the  dancers,  and  his  refusal  to  punish  them, 
so  alarmed  his  nobles,  that  in  May,  1H63,  they  assassinated 
the  king,  and  placed  upon  the  throne  his  queen,  Rasoherina. 
She  had  little  or  no  .sympathy  with  Christianity,  but  on 
political  grounds  she  confirmed  and  even  enlarged  the 
religious  freedom  which  had  been  enjoyed  during  Radama's 
brief  and  tragic  reign.  Prior  to  her  proclamation  as  queen 
she  was  required  to  sign  a  document  which  affirmed  in  the 
most  explicit  language  that  Christianity  should  never  again 
be  forbidden  or  hindered  by  the  Government.  To  this  she 
faithfully  adhered.  Another  stipulation  was  that  she  should 
abstain  from  intoxicants. 

The  position  occupied  by  Mr.  Ellis  in  the  mission  at 
this  time  was  altogether  exceptional.  He  had  been  a 
missionary  in  Polynesia  before  most  of  his  colleagues  were 
born.  He  had  for  many  years  filled  the  office  of  Foreign 
Secretary  to  the  Society.  He  had  also  been  in  close  touch 
with  Malagasy  affairs  during  the  last  ten  years  of  the 
persecution  period.  Hence  it  is  not  surprising  that  he,  with 
no  desire  to  assume  the  position  of  an  autocrat,  and  with 
no  consciousness  of  the  probable  effect  of  his  action  upon 
his  colleagues,  often  settled  affairs  without  consulting  them. 


7i8    MADAGASCAR  REOPENED   TO   THE   GOSPEL 

He  was  also  disposed  to  think  the  best  of  Radama  II,  even 
until  the  time  of  his  assassination.  The  fact  that  Mr.  Ellis's 
stay  on  the  island  was  to  be  so  limited  also  added  somewhat 
to  the  difficulty  of  the  situation.  At  the  same  time  his 
experience,  his  practical  wisdom,  his  quiet  firmness  in  the 
management  of  affairs  were  of  the  highest  value. 

Even  before  he  reached  Madagascar  in  1862,  Mr.  Ellis 
had  formed  the  plan  of  building  memorial  churches  on  the 
sites  where  the  martyrs  had  perished  during  Ranavalona's 
reign,  and  Radama  had  promised  to  reserve  land  for  this 
purpose.  The  sites  were  four  in  number.  Mr.  Ellis  had 
been  deeply  impressed  by  his  visits  to  some  of  these  in 
1856,  and  how  the  scheme  touched  the  hearts  of  friends 
at  home  is  shown  by  the  fact  that  ;^8,ooo  were  speedily 
subscribed  for  this  object.  The  carrying  out  of  the 
plan  proved  very  difficult,  and  in  the  end  it  became  so 
costly  that  ultimately  half  the  sum  which  Mr.  Ellis  had 
considered  sufficient  for  the  four  churches  was  expended 
in  building  the  first.  It  thus  becomes  an  example  of 
what  meets  us  again  and  again  in  the  study  of  a  century's 
missionary  work,  viz.  the  difficulty  of  judging  new  de- 
partures from  the  standpoint  of  the  people  who  have  to 
execute  them,  and  the  country  in  which  they  are  to  be 
carried  out.  While  all  are  agreed  that  enterprises  of  this 
kind  should  be  most  carefully  weighed  and  considered, 
experience  proves  that  with  the  best  possible  intentions 
this  is  very  rarely  accomplished.  It  is  both  easy  and 
attractive  to  outline  most  promising  schemes,  and  it  is 
often  very  easy  to  begin  them.  This  Mr.  Ellis  did,  and 
did  well  in  the  case  of  the  memorial  churches.  But  he 
had  left  Madagascar  long  before  the  first  church  was  built, 
and  he  himself  had  passed  away,  and  more  than  twice  his 
original  estimate  had  been  expended,  before  the  complete 
scheme  was  accomplished.  Yet  it  is  only  fair  to  note 
that  experience  has  justified  the  project.  The  memorial 
churches  have  proved  a  stronghold  to  the  mission,  and 
well  worth  the  time  and  money  expended  upon  them. 

The  enterprise  also  illustrates  the  great  difficulty  which 


THE  MEMORIAL    CHURCHES  719 

missionary  societies,  whose  centre  of  government  is  neces- 
sarily far  away  from  the  scene  of  labour,  experience  in 
satisfactorily  controlling  the  details  of  work  or  the  amount 
of  expenditure. 

Soon  after  his  arrival  in  Madagascar  Mr.  Ellis  suggested 
the  employment  of  the  veteran  artisan  missionary,  Mr. 
Cameron,  as  superintendent  of  the  building  operations  for 
the  new  memorial  churches.  By  a  minute  dated  April  2, 
1863,  the  Southern  Committee  agreed  to  this,  appointing 
Mr.  Cameron  'for  a  period  of,  say,  three  or  four  years.' 
At  their  next  meeting  on  June  18,  1863,  the  committee 
appointed  Mr.  James  Sibree  to  go  out  to  Madagascar  for 
a  term  of  three  years  as  the  architect  to  superintend  the 
erection  of  these  churches.  He  reached  Antananarivo  on 
October  16.  Mr.  Cameron  had  previously  reached  Antana- 
narivo, and  was  under  the  impression  that  the  Directors 
had  intended  him  to  both  plan  and  build  the  churches. 
The  result  was  a  little  embarrassing  both  to  Mr.  Ellis  and 
Mr.  Sibree.  As  builder  in  co-operation  with  Mr.  Sibree,  the 
Directors,  in  February,  1865,  sent  out  Mr.  William  Pool. 

In  addition  to  the  drawbacks  caused  by  the  distance  of 
London  from  Antananarivo,  ?nd  lack  of  harmony  between 
the  agents  entrusted  with  the  work,  the  difficulties  due 
to  Malagasy  conditions  were  very  numerous  and  hard  to 
overcome.  The  Malagasy  Government  refused  point-blank 
to  give  an  absolute  title  to  the  land  ;  buildings  of  the  size 
intended  had  never  before  been  attempted  in  the  island  ; 
owing  to  the  Malagasy  character  and  conditions  of  life,  it 
was  only  by  great  pressure,  endless  patience,  and  skilful 
dealing  with  constant  opposition  that  the  requisite  labour 
could  be  obtained.  This  portion  of  the  enterprise  is  ably 
set  forth  in  chapter  xviii  of  Mr.  Sibree's  Madagascar  and 
its  People.  Readers  who  wish  to  understand  how  hard  it 
is  to  get  intelligent  and  persistent  effort  out  of  a  heathen 
people  should  read  that  chapter  carefully. 

The  sites  selected,  and  at  Mr.  Ellis's  request  set  apart  by 
Radama  II,  were  Ambatonakanga,  Ambohipotsy,  Ampa- 
marinana,   and    Faravohitra.     To  these  was   added    later 


720    MADAGASCAR  REOPENED   TO    THE   GOSPEL 

Fiadanana.  It  was  not  r.ntil  1865  that  these  sites  were 
finally  transferred  to  the  Society  'by  the  Sovereign  of 
Madagascar  for  the  teaching  and  worship  of  the  mission- 
aries of  the  London  Missionary  Society  and  the  Malagasy 
who  unite  with  them  in  the  same  worship,  and  to  their 
successors  for  ever.'  But  the  last  clause  of  the  agreement 
runs  :  '  Nevertheless,  it  shall  be  agreed  that  those  churches 
belong  to  the  Sovereign  of  Madagascar  but  for  that  worship; 
and  the  London  Missionary  Society  shall  have  no  claim 
for  the  repayment  of  the  money  spent,  little  or  much,  in 
the  building  of  those  churches,  for  they  are  the  sovereign's 
in  the  manner  stated  above  ^.'  This  agreement  was  not  free 
from  serious  objection,  but  Mr.  Ellis,  in  a  letter  dated 
July  2,  1865,  wrote  to  the  Directors,  '  It  is  better  than  we 
ever  expected  to  obtain.'  The  Malagasy  Government 
always  manifested  an  invincible  repugnance  to  an  absolute 
transfer  of  land  to  foreigners. 

The  appeal  of  Mr.  Ellis,  which  the  Directors  circulated, 
and  to  which  a  ready  and  generous  response  was  given, 
estimated  the  cost  of  four  churches  at  i^io.ooo.  They 
were  to  be  of  stone — this,  of  itself,  a  novelty  in  the  island — 
plain,  solid  fabrics,  each  capable  of  accommodating  800 
to  1 ,000  persons.  On  Mr.  Sibree's  arrival  it  was  decided 
to  begin  at  Ambatonakanga,  the  spot  where  Mr.  Johns' 
church  stood  in  the  early  days,  and  where,  in  the  old 
native  chapel  during  the  persecution,  large  numbers  of 
Christians  were  imprisoned,  and  whence  many  were  dragged 
to  martyrdom.  '  The  site  is  very  fine.  The  church  stands 
on  a  large  piece  of  ground,  a  fine  level  platform  with 
massive  retaining  walls  of  blue  rock  on  the  eastern  and 
southern  sides;  for  the  ground  falls  away  so  rapidly  to  the 
north  and  west  that  at  one  point  the  wall  is  nearly  forty 
feet  above  the  roadway  ^.' 

The  foundation-stone  was  laid  by  the  prime  minister 
on  January  19,  1864,  but  the  church  was  not  opened  for 

'  The  French  since  their  conquest  of  the  island  have  made  astute  use  of  this 
clause  in  various  agreements  find  deeds. 
'  Madagascar  and  its  reople,  p.  137. 


CHURCH  AT  FARAI'OHITRA  721 

worship  until  January  22,  1867  '.  The  second  church 
begun  was  at  Ambohipotsy,  the  place  where  Rasalama  was 
executed.  Like  the  first  it  was  designed  by  Mr.  Sibree, 
and  executed  under  the  direction  of  Mr.  Pool.  It  was 
begun  in  October,  1865,  and  opened  November  17,  1868. 

In  1867  Mr.  Sibree's  term  expired.  The  Directors, 
alarmed  at  the  cost  of  these  churches — the  two  already 
undertaken  having  cost  i^8.ccc  —  recalled  Mr.  Sibree, 
stopped  for  the  time  the  execution  c>f  the  plan,  and  em- 
barked upon  the  unwise  method  of  trying  to  superintend 
details  from  London.  They  put  aside  the  plan  for  the 
Faravoliitra  church  which  had  been  prepared  by  Mr.  Sibree. 
and  finally  contracted  with  Mr.  Cameron  to  carry  through 
its  construction.  They  employed  a  London  architect  to 
prepare  a  new  plan,  which  Mr.  Cameron  was  to  execute 
for  a  fixed  sum,  the  Society  paying  for  all  the  material. 
The  net  result  of  this  action  was  the  completion  of  the 
church,  but  at  a  much  greater  cost,  in  all  probability,  than 
if  they  had  adhered  to  Mr.  Sibree's  plan  and  Mr.  Pool's 
superintendence. 

The  church  at  Faravohitra  stands  on  the  site  where  the 
four  nobles  were  burnt  in  1849.  The  money  for  the  build- 
ing was  collected  by  the  children  of  Great  Britain,  who 
raised  for  this  purpose  ;^2,850.  The  church  was  begun  in 
I  867,  and  completed  and  opened  in  September,  1870.  The 
fourth  memorial  church  was  situated  at  Ampamarinana, 
near  the  precipice  over  which  so  many  Christians  were 
hurled.  It  was  begun  in  1869  and  opened  in  1874.  Before 
its  commencement,  the  fund,  which  amounted  to  about 
;^ 1 4,000,  was  exhausted,  and  this  church  cost  the  funds  of 
the  Society  about  ;^2,5co.  The  total  expenditure  on  these 
four  churches  amounted  to  about  ;^i8.oco. 

In  addition  to  these  a  memorial  church  on  a  smaller 
scale  was  also  erected  at  Fiadanana,  the  place  where  the 
stoning  of  Christians  took  place  in  the  persecution  of  1857. 

From  1863  to  1868  the  growth  of  the  mission  was  rapid 

'  For  most  interesting  details  connected  with  ihis  church  and  its  progress, 
see  Madagascar  and  its  People,  chapter  xviii. 

I.  3  A 


722    MADAGASCAR   REOPENED   TO    THE  GOSPEL 

and  continuous.  On  June  ii,  1863,  fournew  workers  sailed 
for  Madagascar:  Mr.  Briggs,  who  took  charge  of  the  work 
at  Ampamarinana ;  Mr.  Hartley,  who  settled  at  Andohalo ; 
Mr.  Pearse,  who  became  pastor  at  Analakdy ;  and  Mr. 
Kessler.  The  latters  connection  with  the  Society  ceased 
in  1865.  In  September,  1864,  Mr.  George  Cousins  reached 
Antananarivo,  and  became  associated  with  Mr.  Ellis  in 
work  at  Ambatonakanga.  In  1866  the  mission  was  further 
strengthened  by  the  arrival  of  Mr.  Charles  Jukes,  and  in 
1868  by  Mr.  James  Barker.  Mr.  Hartley  was  a  man  of 
altogether  exceptional  merit.  He  had  been  classical  tutor 
at  Airedale  College,  and  upon  his  settlement  in  Antana- 
narivo threw  himself  heartily  into  the  work  at  Andohalo. 
He  had  been  sent  to  Madagascar  in  the  hope  that  he  might 
be  able  to  organize  the  work  of  training  native  preachers, 
and  also  take  part  in  the  much-needed  revision  of  the 
Bible  translation.  The  time  had  hardly  come  for  the  first 
of  these  tasks,  but  he  was  diligent  in  preparation  for  the 
second.  He  devoted  much  time  to  the  language  and  to 
the  preparation  of  Christian  literature.  But  in  1867  his 
own  health  and  that  of  his  wife  failed,  and  in  1868  they 
were  compelled  to  return  to  England.  Soon  after  reaching 
England  he  saw  through  the  press  a  new  edition  of  the 
Malagasy  New  Testament,  and  also  one  of  the  Malagasy 
Hymn-book.  He  died  at  Bournemouth  February  i^,  1870. 
His  enforced  retirement  was  felt  to  be  a  great  loss  to  the 
mission,  and  his  death  was  mourned  by  his  colleagues  and 
by  a  wide  circle  of  friends. 

Before  passing  to  the  great  awakening  due  to  the 
destruction  of  the  national  idols,  we  must  briefly  refer  to 
the  new  home  policy  which  in  1868  was  extended  to 
Madagascar  in  common  with  all  the  other  great  fields 
of  work.  The  origin  of  this  development  is  traced  in 
Volume  II  of  this  history.  Dr.  Mullens  on  March  5,  1868, 
addressed  to  the  Madagascar  missionaries  what  is  known 
as  Budget  Dispatch  No.  4.  It  sketches  in  detail  the 
history  and  progress  of  the  mission,  and  then  indicates 
what  from  the  home  point  of  view  were  the  pressing  needs 


HOME  POLICY  IN  1868  723 

and  difficulties,  and  also  the  chief  encouragements.  The 
missionaries  were  urged  to  use  the  new  and  deepened 
interest  in  Christianity  to  render  the  native  churches  as 
far  as  possible  self-supporting,  to  avoid  isolation  in  work, 
and  to  bring  to  bear  upon  all  difficult  matters  the  collective 
wisdom  and  insight  of  the  mission.  The  unwisdom  of 
missionaries  assuming  the  pastorate  of  native  churches 
was  next  dwelt  upon,  the  need  for  itinerating  and  village 
work  in  extending  the  power  of  the  Gospel,  and  the  im- 
perative necessity  for  developing  native  evangelistic  agency. 
The  financial  arrangements  of  the  mission  were  also  placed 
on  a  settled  basis.  With  regard  to  the  Government,  after 
sketching  the  relationship  of  the  mission  as  it  was  then 
understood  in  England,  and  expressing  the  opinion,  which 
events  were  so  soon  to  falsify,  that  '  the  old  system  must 
still  possess  great  strength,  and  will  retain  the  deference 
and  respect  of  the  multitude  for  many  years  to  come,'  the 
Directors  give  this  clear  exposition  of  their  views  on  a 
difficult  point  : — 

*  It  is  well  that  Christianity  should  not  move  on  too 
quickly.  It  is  well  that,  for  a  while,  the  pressure  of  opinion 
should  rather  be  against  it.  Far  better  is  it  that  Christ's 
kingdom  should  grow  from  conviction,  and  that  the  con- 
viction should  be  tested,  than  that  multitudes  should  accept 
the  Gospel  only  because  others  do.  We  deprecate,  there- 
fore, all  interference  on  the  part  of  the  Government  in  the 
management  of  the  churches.  We  wish  no  help,  no  endow- 
ment, no  advice,  no  rule ;  and  we  trust  all  our  native 
brethren  will  wish  the  same.  In  Europe,  the  older  nations 
are  fighting  their  way  back  from  establishments  of  religion 
to  the  Free  Church  in  a  Free  State.  In  England  the 
contest  has  begun  in  earnest ;  and  we  trust  that  not  only 
yourselves,  but  your  people  also,  will  view  with  jealousy 
every  attempt  on  the  part  of  the  State  in  any  way  to 
touch  the  work,  the  worship,  or  the  position  of  Christianity. 
We  trust  they  will  heartily  agree  with  you,  not  only  *'  to 
render  faithfully  unto  Caesar  the  things  that  are  Caesar's, 
but  also  unto  God  the  things  that  are  God's."* 

3  A  a 


724    MADAGASCAR  REOPENED    TO    THE   GOSPEL 

Much  of  what  was  enjoined  in  this  dispatch  was  either 
in  existence,  or  coming  into  being  in  the  conduct  of  the 
mission.  It  undoubtedly  did  good  service  in  bringing  to 
a  close  the  system  of  individualism  which  had  been  followed 
too  long.  It  also  shaped  the  lines  which  subsequent 
development  has  for  the  most  part  followed.  But  it  was 
largely  overshadowed  by  the  extraordinary  events  which 
took  place  at  the  time  it  reached  the  island,  and  which 
were  soon  to  bring  the  author  of  the  dispatch  to  Mada- 
gascar, to  see  for  himself  the  wonderful  things  which  God 
had  wrought  and  to  co-operate  with  the  missionaries  in 
adapting  the  machine  to  the  tremendous  strain  placed  upon 
its  several  parts.     To  these  events  we  now  turn. 

[Authorities. — Letters,  Official  Reports,  Annual  Reports.  There  is 
a  very  extensive  general  literature  on  Madagascar.  The  most  accessible  books 
of  reference  zxt—rThe  History  of  Madagascar,  2  vols.,  Three  Visits  to 
Madagascar  (1858),  Madagascar  Revisited  (1867),  The  Martyr  Church  of 
Madagascar,  all  by  William  Ellis ;  Madagascar  and  its  People,  and  Mada- 
gascar since  the  Conquest,  both  by  James  Sibree ;  Madagascar  of  To-day, 
by  W.  E.  Cousins.  The  Antananarivo  Annual,  begun  in  1875,  and  continued 
in  annual  volumes  since,  is  a  mine  of  most  interesting  and  valuable  information, 
connected  with  all  aspects  of  Malagasy  history,  life,  and  thought.] 


CHAPTER   XXXI 

THE   GREAT   CONVERSION:    1868-1870 


/ 


In  January,  1868,  Rasoherina  became  very  ill.  A  con- 
spiracy was  organized  to  place  a  relative  of  Radama  II, 
Rasata  by  name,  upon  the  throne,  and  to  restore  the  late 
prime  minister.  On  April  i  the  queen  died,  and  was 
succeeded  by  her  cousin  Ramoma,  who  took  the  name 
of  Ranavalomanjaka.  One  sign  of  the  altered  state  of 
affairs  was  the  leniency  with  which  the  conspirators  were 
treated.  Kelimalaza  and  the  sikidy  were  not  consulted, 
and  another  sign  of  progress  was  the  intimation  that  brick 
and  stone  might  in  future  be  used  within  the  city  whenever 
the  builders  desired.  In  heathen  days  the  use  of  wood 
only  had  been  allowed.  It  became  known  at  once,  through 
these  and  other  indications,  that  the  Government  attitude 
towards  Christianity  was  favourable.  Government  work 
on  Sunday  was  stopped,  and  the  queen  refused  to  see  the 
United  States  consul  when  he  presented  himself  on  that 
day.  The  attendance  at  the  public  services,  especially  on 
the  part  of  high  officials,  greatly  increased.  Sunday 
markets  also  were  prohibited. 

This  encouraging  news  developed  home  interest  in 
Madagascar.  Still  further,  on  September  17,  1868.  the 
Southern  Committee  passed  a  resolution  'that  this  Com- 
mittee desire  to  record  their  earnest  and  humble  thanks- 
giving to  God  for  the  great  blessings  which  He  has  recently 
vouchsafed  to  the  Madagascar  Mission.  In  the  public 
putting  away  of  idolatry,  in  the  removal  of  social  hin- 
drances to  the  acknowledgement  of  the  truth,  and  in  the 
great    increase   of  attendants    upon    public   worship,  they 


726  THE   GREAT  CONVERSION :  1868  1870 

gratefully  recognize  an  answer  to  the  many  prayers  which 
for  forty  years  have  been  offered  on  behalf  of  the  native 
Church.  They  pray  that  these  churches  may  by  increase 
of  grace  be  made  fruitful  unto  all  good  works  ;  and  that 
as  they  were  preserved  in  the  dark  days  of  persecution,  so 
now  they  may  be  kept  from  the  special  dangers  to  which 
prosperity  exposes  them.'  A  special  meeting  of  ministers 
was  held  at  the  mission  house,  and  a  great  public  thanks- 
giving meeting  at  Claremont  Chapel ;  and  a  special  appeal 
issued  for  ;^3,ooo  to  complete  the  memorial  churches,  and 
to  send  out,  if  possible,  two  experienced  pastors  and  a 
medical  missionary. 

On  September  3,  1868,  the  coronation  ceremonies  took 
place.  They  were  remarkable  for  the  omission  of  the 
distinctive  idolatrous  ceremonies.  They  excited  enormous 
interest,  and  400,000  people  are  said  to  have  been  present. 
Around  the  frieze  of  the  canopy  beneath  which  the  queen 
sat  were  the  words,  *  Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  on  earth 
peace,  good  will  to  men.  God  be  with  us.'  Upon  a  table 
in  front  of  her  was  the  copy  of  the  Bible  which  had  been 
presented  to  her  predecessor  by  the  Bible  Society.  The 
queen's  speech,  the  first  in  the  annals  of  Madagascar  which 
was  printed,  and  in  that  form  circulated  among  the  people, 
was  emphatic  in  its  proclamation  of  religious  toleration. 
'This  also  is  my  word  to  you,  ye  under  heaven,  in  regard 
to  the  praying :  it  is  not  enforced ;  it  is  not  restrained  ; 
for  God  made  you.'  The  tone  of  the  prime  minister's 
speech  also  was  most  friendly  in  regard  to  Christian  pro- 
gress. Very  shortly  afterwards  Christian  services  were 
commenced  within  the  palace  itself,  and  these  culminated 
in  the  baptism  of  the  queen  and  prime  minister  on  February 
21,  1869, 

The  chief  agent  in  this  work  was  a  native  pastor  named 
Andriambelo,  a  man  of  devoted  Christian  character  and  of 
great  spiritual  power.  He  was  born  in  1829,  and  while 
yet  a  child  lost  his  father  by  the  tangena.  His  brother, 
a  scholar  in  the  early  mission  school,  was  a  Christian,  and 
is  said  to  have  died  in  the  first  persecution.     Andriambdo 


ANDRIAMBELO  727 

became  a  Christian  through  hearing  a  Christian  hymn,  and 
became  himself  a  Christian  teacher  and  preacher.  After 
the  1^49  persecution  he  was  baptized,  and  in  1857  he  was 
condemned,  and  fled  for  his  life.  He  escaped,  and  in  1861 
was  among  the  first  to  welcome  the  missionaries  to  the 
capital.  He  was  long  associated  with  the  Rev.  W.  E. 
Cousins  in  the  pastorate  of  the  large  church  at  Amparibe. 

A  letter  from  Mr.  Cousins  states  that  the  prime  minister, 
who,  in  marrying  the  queen,  was  only  observing  the  in- 
variable custom,  departed  from  it  by  divorcing  his  former 
wife  in  consequence,  and  by  the  expression  on  the  part  of 
the  queen  and  himself  of  a  purpose  to  be  faithful  to  one 
another  as  man  and  wife. 

The  tidings  of  these  events  reawakened  in  England  pro- 
found interest  in  the  affairs  of  Madagascar.  The  Directors 
sent  congratulatory  addresses  to  both  the  queen  and  prime 
minister.  It  was  also  obvious  that  important  accessions 
to  the  missionary  staff  were  imperative,  and  an  urgent 
appeal  was  issued  for  men  and  for  means  to  sustain  them. 
In  both  respects  the  response  was  prompt  and  generous. 
This  newly  aroused  zeal  was  deepened  and  sustained  by 
the  tidings  which  reached  England  in  the  middle  of  1869 
of  the  destruction  of  the  national  idols.  From  the  date  of 
the  queen's  baptism  the  progress  of  Christianity  had  been 
very  rapid.  Messrs.  Briggs  and  W.  E.  Cousins  in  a  letter 
dated  April  29,  1869,  state  that  between  May,  1867,  and 
December,  1868,  30,cco  had  been  added  to  the  regular 
hearers  of  the  Gospel,  and  the  separate  congregations  had 
increased  from  92  to  148.  Twenty  to  thirty  new  congre- 
gations had  been  formed  since  the  year  began.  This 
letter  also  clearly  indicates  some  of  those  features  of  the 
work  which  ought  to  have  kept  some  of  the  Directors  and 
the  Christian  public  from  the  misconceptions  under  which 
many  of  them  laboured  for  years.  There  had  been  so 
much  of  thrilling  incident  in  Madagascar's  story,  the  victory 
of  Christianity  seemed  so  complete,  that  it  was  very  easy 
to  misunderstand  the  exact  meaning  of  what  had  occurred, 
to  fail  altogether  to  keep  in  view  the  many  weaknesses  of 


728  THE   GREAT  CONVERSION :  ISGS^ISW 

the  Malagasy  character,  and  to  transfer  to  them  qualities 
and  powers  unattainable  by  a  people  just  emerging  from 
a  heathenism  of  a  peculiarly  degraded  moral  type.  It  was 
afterwards  freely  stated  that  the  missionaries  on  the  spot 
did  not  fully  and  frankly  depict  the  real  state  of  affairs. 
No  one  who  reads  the  letters  in  the  Society's  archives  can 
for  a  moment  maintain  this.  The  missionaries  wrote  home 
fully  and  frankly.  But  both  Directors  and  supporters  failed 
to  gather  the  true  meaning  and  force  of  their  descriptions, 
because  readers  at  home  persistently  read  into  these  letters 
what  they  fancied  they  saw  there.  It  was  often  a  puzzle 
to  the  workers  in  Madagascar  that  their  letters  home  could 
be,  as  they  undoubtedly  often  were,  taken  in  so  different 
a  sense  from  that  intended,  and  from  what  to  the  writers 
seemed  the  obvious  and  clear  meaning. 

The  letter  just  referred  to  is  a  case  in  point.  It  states 
explicitly,  '  You  will  readily  understand  how  limited  is  the 
knowledge  of  most  of  the  native  pastors,  and  how  little 
able  they  are  to  instruct  and  guide  their  congregations 
without  frequent  aid  and  supervision.  For  real  instruction 
the  people  are  almost  entirely  dependent  upon  us,  for  we 
have  scarcely  a  native  pastor  who  will  conduct  a  Bible 
class.'  '  The  present  seems  just  the  turning-point  in  the 
history  of  this  country,  and  so  far  as  we  can  see  Christianity 
will  soon  become,  in  name  at  least,  the  religion  of  the 
whole  country.  It  rests  with  our  Society  to  determine 
what  amount  of  instruction  shall  be  given  to  the  large 
numbers  who  are  now  putting  themselves  under  our  care.' 

A  passage  upon  the  relation  of  the  Government  to  the 
Christian  natives  is  also  full  of  interest  in  the  light  of 
subsequent  controversies : — 

'There  is  still  one  other  matter  of  importance  upon 
which  we  wish  to  address  you,  viz.  the  relations  existing 
between  the  Christians  and  the  native  Government,  and 
the  consequent  difficulties  we  find  in  carrying  out  our 
principles  as  Nonconformists.  From  one  or  two  private 
letters,  you  have  seen  that  some  of  the  missionaries  have 
experienced  occasional  annoyance  and  some  little  difficulty 


INFLUENCE   OF  STATE   ON   THE   CHURCH      729 

in  this  matter,  and  most  of  us  have  had  our  fears  in  respect 
to  it.  We  wish  you,  however,  clearly  to  understand  that 
we  have  as  yet  experienced  no  official  interference  in  our 
work  by  the  Government  as  such.  What  interference  any 
of  us  have  experienced  has  been  by  certain  high  officers  or 
members  of  the  Government,  and  not  by  the  Government 
officially.  There  is  at  present  no  probability  whatever 
that  the  Government  have  any  idea  of  setting  up  a  state 
church,  but  there  is  a  probability  that  the  missionaries, 
or  rather  the  native  Christians  connected  with  them,  will 
experience  occasional  interference  in  the  work  of  the 
churches,  not  by  the  Government  as  a  body,  but  by  indi- 
vidual members  of  it.  The  high  officers  do  not  feel 
at  liberty  to  interfere  directly  with  the  work  of  the 
missionaries,  but  they  have  no  scruples  or  difficulties  in 
interfering  with  the  native  Christians.  Were  it  not  for 
the  presence  and  influence  of  the  missionaries,  it  is  almost 
certain  that  the  whole  work  of  the  churches  would  fall 
at  once  into  the  hands  of  the  Government  and  high  officers, 
and  that  without  the  least  demur  on  the  part  of  most  of  the 
natives.  We  make  these  remarks  in  order  that  you  may 
clearly  understand  that  in  endeavouring  to  keep  the  Church 
in  Madagascar  from  state  patronage  and  control,  the 
missionaries  can  look  for  no  help  from  the  native  Christians. 
As  you  are  well  aware,  we  missionaries  are  all  Noncon- 
formists, and  we  are  anxious  that  Nonconformity  in  respect 
to  state-churchism  shall  be  the  principle  of  the  Church  in 
Madagascar.  We  have  been  from  the  first,  and  are  now, 
striving  to  make  it  so,  but  we  do  not  expect  to  be  able  to 
carry  out  our  principles  in  all  their  purity,  and  you  must 
not  be  surprised  if  in  some  points  we  fail.  You  must  not 
forget  that  we  are  a  handful  of  foreigners  fighting  against 
what  may  be  regarded  as  the  tendency  of  the  whole  nation. 
The  Malagasy  are  not  English,  and  know  nothing  of  liberty 
political  and  religious  as  Englishmen  understand  it.  The 
tendency  in  Madagascar  is  to  conformity  as  a  general 
principle.  This  tendency  (at  least  in  respect  to  state- 
churchism)  we   arc   trying  to  stop,  and  to  turn  it   in   the 


730  THE  GREAT  CONVERSION :  186S-1S70 

opposite  direction ;  a  work  which  requires  great  caution 
and  no  lack  of  judgment.  The  only  way  in  which  we  can 
hope  to  be  successful  is  by  quietly  teaching  our  principles, 
instilling  them  into  the  minds  of  the  people,  and  there 
leaving  them  to  work  their  way.  Were  we  to  take  up 
a  position  of  antagonism  to  the  Government  we  should 
defeat  the  very  object  we  are  seeking  to  gain,  and  adopt 
the  readiest  means  of  bringing  about  an  established 
Church. 

'  If  you  consider  the  state  of  society  in  Madagascar  you 
will  easily  understand  the  difficulties  with  which  we  have 
to  contend  in  endeavouring  to  carry  out  our  Nonconformist 
principles.  The  state  of  Malagasy  society  is  well  known  to 
Mr.  Ellis,  and  by  this  time  will  be  pretty  well  known 
to  you  and  the  Directors.  Every  one  here  is  to  a  great 
extent  the  slave  of  the  one  above  him,  and  all  may  be 
regarded  as  the  slaves  of  the  Government  or  the  sovereign. 
There  is  consequently  a  fear  of  doing  anything  to  displease, 
and  a  constant  seeking  after  favour  with  those  in  authority. 
The  principal  motive  with  great  numbers  of  the  people 
who  are  now  coming  to  our  places  of  worship,  and 
beginning  to  pray,  is  that  they  may  please  the  queen 
and  obtain  the  favour  of  the  lekibe  (the  high  officers). 
Principle  is  nothing  to  them  if  they  are  only  in  the  safe 
path,  and  doing  the  will  of  those  in  authority.  Of  course 
some  of  the  older  Christians  are  men  of  better  knowledge 
and  sounder  principle,  but  even  they  are  completely 
carried  away  by  the  new  state  of  things.  They  can  see 
no  harm  if  those  who  occupy  positions  of  influence  and 
authority  in  the  nation  exercise  their  influence  and  authority 
in  the  affairs  of  the  Church  ;  in  fact,  they  are  rather  glad  of 
it  than  otherwise.  Hence  it  is  a  very  easy  thing  for  those 
occupying  positions  of  authority  to  give  instructions  respect- 
ing the  opening  of  chapels,  the  services  to  be  held,  the 
hymns  to  be  sung,  the  sermons  to  be  preached,  the  prayers 
to  be  offered,  and  even  to  interfere  in  the  appointment  of 
pastors,  or  about  sermons  that  have  been  preached,  and  to 
threaten    with   punishment    those   who   are   unruly  in   the 


DESTRUCTION  OF   THE   IDOLS  731 

Church.  Such  things  have  been  done  occasionally.  In 
matters  of  importance  affecting  the  churches,  the  natives 
will  often  go  to  the  lehibe  first,  and  after  that  to  the 
missionary.  Sometimes  their  business  will  be  settled  for 
them  in  high  quarters,  and  sometimes  they  will  be  sent 
at  once  to  the  missionary  to  whose  district  they  belong. 
You  will  see  from  these  as  well  as  from  other  things  you 
have  heard,  that  we  have  occasional  difficulties  in  carrying 
out  our  Nonconformist  principles.  At  the  same  time,  we 
have  no  wish  to  exaggerate  these  difficulties.  They  are 
after  all  perhaps  not  so  great  as  might  have  been  expected 
considering  the  state  of  society  and  the  great  power  which 
Christianity  has  so  rapidly  become  in  this  country.  We 
may  safely  say  that  our  efforts  during  the  last  few  months 
have  been  to  some  extent  successful,  and  we  have  less 
ground  for  fear  now  than  we  had  some  six  months  ago. 
We  have  therefore  hope  that  by  constant  teaching  and 
unobtrusive  efforts  we  shall  succeed  in  keeping  free  from 
earthly  and  unholy  influences,  and  in  securing  peace  and 
prosperity  to  the  Church  of  Christ  in  Madagascar.' 

Before  the  state  of  matters  so  clearly  and  so  ably 
depicted  in  this  letter  could  be  realized  at  home,  public 
feeling  on  Madagascar  matters  was  once  again  deeply 
stirred  by  the  tidings  that  the  queen  had  ordered  and 
carried  out  the  destruction  of  her  ancestral  idols.  The 
story  of  this  most  important  event  is  graphically  told  in 
a  letter  from  the  pen  of  the  Rev.  George  Cousins,  dated 
Amparibe,  September  24,  1869:— 

'  Startling  intelligence  from  Madagascar  has  been  so 
common  of  late  years,  and  especially  during  the  reign 
of  the  present  sovereign,  that  possibly  you  are  in  a  measure 
prepared  for  the  important  news  that  will  reach  you  by 
this  mail.  "  The  idols,"  i.  e.  the  material,  visible  idols,  have 
in  this  part  of  the  island  been  "  utterly  abolished,"  and  in 
every  large  village  and  town  a  small  heap  of  ashes  may  be 
.seen,  the  only  remaining  token  of  the  once  famous  sampy. 
There  was  nothing  glorious  in  a  Malagasy  idol,  nothing 
to  awe  a  stranger,  nothing  beautiful ;    a  few  pieces  of  stick 


732  THE   GREAT  CONVERSION :  1S6S-1S70 

wrapped  up  in  a  red  lamba  and  decorated  with  beads  and 
chains,  a  piece  of  chalk  in  a  bag-,  a  wooden  representation 
of  an  insect — such  wretched  trifles  as  these  were  the 
objects  of  the  people's  reverence  and  regard.  Still,  wretched 
^'  gods  "  as  they  were,  they  have  exerted  a  wide-spreading 
and  most  pernicious  influence  over  these  intensely  super- 
stitious people,  and  if  the  Gospel  has  not  had  to  wrestle 
with  the  priests  of  a  hoary-headed  and  elaborate  system  of 
idolatry,  it  has  had  to  struggle  with  gross  ignorance  and 
darkness  —  "  a  darkness  that  might  be  felt."  In  the  brighter 
days  that  have  arisen  we  cannot  forget  the  difficulties  of 
the  past. 

'  Kelinialaza  (little  but  famous)  has  always  been  reckoned 
the  first  in  power  and  influence  of  all  the  idols  in  Mada- 
gascar, and  even  in  his  destruction  he  was  honoured  with 
the  distinction  of  leading  the  way  for  his  less  favoured  com- 
panions. He  was  burned  first,  and  the  rest  followed  as 
a  matter  of  course.  I  was  not  aware  of  the  extent  of  his 
power,  but  his  name  has  been  in  every  one's  mouth  lately, 
and  I  have  heard  more  about  him  than  ever  before.  The 
honour  due  to  him  was  reckoned  as  being  equal  to  that  of 
the  sovereign  on  the  one  hand,  and  to  that  of  the  common 
people  on  the  other ;  by  some  imaginary  arrangement 
"honour  "was  divided  into  three  parts,  a  third  belonging 
to  the  monarch,  a  third  to  the  idol,  and  a  third  to  the 
people.  Kelimalaza's  keepers  at  Ambohimanambola  had 
great  privileges  also.  They  had  under  their  own  control 
the  life  and  death  of  their  tribe,  and  could  behead  without 
consulting  the  Government.  They  had  the  privilege  of 
what  is  called  tsy  maty  manota,  i.  e.  not  dying  when 
transgressing,  and  if  detected  stealing,  or  worse,  could 
claim  release  at  once.  They  were  treated  too  as  nobles, 
and  received  the  salutation  which  always  distinguishes  the 
nobleman,  however  poor,  from  the  Hova,  however  rich. 
They  could  carry  a  scarlet  umbrella,  which  is  the  badge 
of  honour,  confined,  with  this  one  exception,  to  princes  and 
princesses  of  the  royal  blood. 

'When   Kanavalona  II  came  to   the  throne  as  a  queen 


BURNING   OF  KELIMALAZA 


733 


professing  reliance  upon  God  and  not  upon  sampy,  the 
numerous  tribe  of  idol-keepers  at  Ambohimanambola  were 
told  to  return  to  their  former  position,  and  the  special 
privileges  which  had  been  theirs  were  taken  from  them. 
They  have  since  found  that  they  will  be  expected  to  do 
their  share  of  government  service  and  to  serve  in  the  army, 
from  both  of  which  they  were  formerly  specially  exempted, 
and  have  also  been  informed  by  the  queen  that  as  they 
were  only  nominally  *•  nobles  "  they  must  cease  claiming 
the  distinction  and  sink  into  Hovas  again.  This  has  been 
a  sore  trial  to  their  pride,  and  their  obstinacy  in  refusing 
to  accept  this  humiliation  was  the  immediate  cause  of 
Kelimalaza's  destruction.  From  all  one  can  gather  from 
the  natives,  the  Government  had  no  intention  of  burning 
the  idols  until  the  royal  chapel  was  completed,  but  it  was 
suddenly  resolved  on  the  8th  inst.  to  burn  them  without 
delay.  They  say  that  unless  the}'  had  been  publich' 
destroyed  the  Malagasy  would  never  have  believed  that 
the  queen  had  really  given  them  up.  It  seems  that  on 
Wednesday,  the  8th  of  this  month,  the  Ambohimanambola 
people  w^ere  at  the  palace,  urging  the  queen  to  return  to 
the  service  of  her  ancestors'  idol,  and  also  asserting  their 
rights  to  former  privileges.  The  queen  replied  that  they 
would  soon  hear  her  word  about  the  idol.  At  this  they 
became  alarmed  and  hastened  home.  A  number  of  the  lead- 
ing officers  left  for  their  village  at  the  same  time,  followed 
by  their  dekana  (aides-de-camp),  and  there  was  quite 
a  race  as  to  who  should  arrive  first,  the  idol-keepers  or 
the  queen's  messengers.  The  iconoclasts  gained  the  race, 
however.  The  officer  who  arrived  first  was  on  horseback, 
and  as  horses  have  never  been  allowed  to  enter  the  sacred 
village,  imagine  the  consternation  of  the  superstitious 
villagers  when  they  saw  a  horse  close  to  Kelimalaza's 
house.  I  am  not  quite  clear  as  to  the  course  of  subsequent 
events.  But  for  some  time  the  people  could  not  be 
persuaded  to  come  near  the  officers.  One  man  carried 
some  charms  into  the  idol-house  which  he  said  would 
effectually    prevent    their    finding    him.     When    they    had 


734  THE  GREAT  CONVERSION :   1868-1870 

brought  the  idol  and  all  the  ornaments  and  trappings 
belonging  to  him  out  of  the  house,  the  officer  highest  in 
position  among  them,  speaking  in  the  name  of  the  sovereign, 
said,  "  Whose  is  this  idol  ?  is  it  yours,  or  is  it  mine  ?  "  The 
keepers  could  not  but  reply  that  it  was  the  sovereign's. 
"  Then,"  said  the  officer,  "  if  this  is  mine,  says  Ranavalo- 
MANJAKA,  I  shall  burn  my  idol ;  for  my  kingdom  rests 
upon  God.  My  ancestors,  through  lack  of  knowledge, 
trusted  in  sanipy,  but  my  trust  is  in  God."  Without 
further  ado  they  set  fire  to  Kelimalaza  and  burnt  him 
and  his  umbrella  and  all  his  belongings.  The  idol  was 
simply  a  small  piece  of  wood  resembling  an  insect,  wrapped 
in  scarlet  cloth,  and  decorated  with  silver  chains. 

'  Next  day  a  general  slaughter  commenced.  All  the 
royal  idols  were  committed  to  the  flames,  and  officers  were 
scattered  all  over  Imerina  engaged  in  the  work  of  de- 
struction. The  heads  of  the  people  told  the  queen  that 
as  she  was  burning  her  idols  of  course  they  should  burn 
theirs,  and  some  of  them  assured  her  that  if  any  refused 
to  give  up  their  charms  and  sampy^  they  would  burn  them 
and  the  sampy  together.  Baskets  full  of  rubbish  have 
been  destroyed,  but  although  rubbish  in  our  eyes,  many 
of  the  people  believed  that  it  would  be  impossible  to 
destroy  some  of  their  honoured  Penates,  and  they  trembled 
as  they  stood  round  the  fire  in  which  they  were  blazing 
away.  Still  the  work  has  been  done  with  a  suddenness 
and  universality  truly  wonderful.  We  hear  that  instructions 
have  been  forwarded  to  all  the  Government  stations  in  the 
provinces  to  act  in  the  same  way. 

'This  important  step  has  quite  a  Malagasy  character 
about  it,  and  although  we  may  not  altogether  approve 
of  .some  things  in  connection  with  it,  we  cannot  but  rejoice 
in  the  fresh  proof  afforded  of  the  power  of  the  Gospel  in 
this  island.  You  in  England  will  join  with  us  in  praising 
the  great  Head  of  the  Church  who  so  signally  manifests 
His  grace  and  power  amongst  this  people.  "  Not  unto  us, 
not  unto  us,  but  unto  His  name  give  glory." 

*  But  there  is  a  practical  side  of  the  question  which  we 


GREAT  EXTENSION   OF  WORK 


735 


on  the  spot  here  recognize,  and  which  the  Directors  should 
keep  constantly  in  mind.  The  congregations  in  the  out- 
lying villages  are  greatly  increased,  and  new  places  are 
springing  up  at  a  distance  from  the  capital  and  not  within 
easy  reach.  We  are  constantly  hearing  of  people  meeting 
together  and  no  one  to  preach  to  them,  and  we  have 
numerous  applications  for  teachers  which  we  cannot  meet. 
Every  month  shows  one  more  clearly  how  utterly  inadequate 
for  the  increasing  demands  of  our  work  is  the  present  small 
staff  of  missionaries.  I  cannot  say  that  my  conscience 
troubles  me,  but  my  heart  does  grieve  most  deeply,  when 
I  realize  my  inability  to  do  what  falls  to  my  share.  The 
native  agency  is  strong  in  numbers,  but  deficient  in  know- 
ledge and  fitness  to  instruct  people  in  God's  word. 

'  The  Christians  have  commenced,  entirely  of  their  own 
accord,  what  may,  with  careful  watching  and  developing, 
resolve  itself  into  a  Home  Missionary  Society.  They  have 
collected  money — S157,  including  S50  from  the  committee — 
and  are  sending  four  men  of  long  standing  as  Christians, 
to  evangelize  the  leading  idol-villages.  My  co-pastor,  Ra- 
tsilainga,  is  one  of  the  four.  They  are  to  stay  only  for 
a  few  months.  But  as  other  places  may  need  help  at  the 
end  of  that  time,  we  may  be  able  to  make  some  permanent 
society  for  spreading  the  Gospel  in  the  provinces.' 

This  act  of  the  queen  immediately  and  greatly  increased 
the  number  in  Madagascar  of  nominal  adherents  to  Chris- 
tianity, and  placed  greater  burdens  than  ever  upon  the  too 
few  missionaries  in  the  island.  But  it  aroused  the  home 
authorities  to  more  vigorous  action  than  ever.  On  Sep- 
tember 16,  1869,  the  Madagascar  Committee  had  passed 
two  important  recommendations  : — 

'i.  That  the  Directors,  while  relying  on  the  brethren 
that  they  will,  as  far  as  they  deem  practicable  and  right, 
comply  with  the  wishes,  and  aid  in  promoting  the  ends 
of  the  native  Government,  urge  upon  them  a  firm  but 
courteous  resistance  to  any  interference  on  the  part  of  the 
Government  as  such,  in  the  internal  management  of  the 
churches. 


736  THE   GREAT  CONVERSION :   1868-^1870 

'  2.  That  two  ordained  missionaries  be  added  to  the 
brethren  already  appointed,  to  proceed  to  Madagascar  in 
the  spring.' 

The  arrival  of  the  news  that  the  idols  had  been  de- 
stroyed led  the  Directors  to  consider  still  more  carefully 
the  state  of  the  Madagascar  Mission,  and  the  most  efficient 
way  of  dealing  with  its  primary  requirements.  An  elabo- 
rate scheme  was  drawn  up  \  of  which  the  following  were 
the  chief  points.  Two  of  the  seven  missionaries  then 
resident  were  to  be  set  free  to  train  native  pastors  ;  five 
new  mission  stations  were  to  be  opened  ;  three  missionaries 
were  to  go  to  Betsileo,  in  addition  to  one  already  appointed  ; 
two  medical  missionaries,  one  for  the  capital  and  one  for 
Betsileo,  and  two  schoolmasters  were  also  to  be  sent  out. 
This  meant  an  addition  to  the  staff  o(  sixteen  missionaries, 
at  an  estimated  cost  over  and  above  passage  and  outfit  of 
about  ii"5,ooo  a  year. 

Almost  the  whole  of  this  scheme  was  ultimately 
accomplished,  although  modifications  in  detail  necessarily 
occurred.  As  always  happens  when  a  considerable  number 
of  men  are  sent  to  one  field,  especially  under  circumstances 
of  pressure  and  excitement^  there  was  a  considerable  per- 
centage of  failure.  Affairs  on  the  island  were  rendered 
somewhat  more  difficult  by  the  efforts  on  the  part  of 
the  Directors,  natural  enough,  but  based  upon  imperfect 
apprehension  of  the  native  character,  to  make  the  native 
.schools  and  native  churches  largely  self- supporting.  The 
questions  also  of  the  intrusion  of  other  missions  into  a  field 
peculiarly  the  London  Missionary  Society's  own,  and  the 
cver-rccurring  difficulty  of  Government  influence  upon  the 
churches,  exerted  somewhat  harmful  effect,  as  we  shall  see 
later  on. 

'  bee  Chronicle^  1870,  p.  39. 


CHAPTER  XXXII 

THE   MALAGASY   CHURCH:    1870-T895 

During  1869  to  1873  inclusive,  twenty-one  missionaries 
were  sent  to  Madagascar:  in  1869,  Mr.  Richardson;  in 
1870  Messrs.  Attwell,  Forster,Matthews,  Montgomery,  Moss, 
Peake,  Sibree  (now  a  trained  and  ordained  missionary),  and 
Wills  ;  in  1871,  Brockway,  Houlder.  and  Stribling  ;  in  1872, 
Baron,  Beveridge,  Grainge,  and  Thorne ;  in  1873,  Lord, 
Parker,  Peill,  Pickersgill,  Riordan,  and  Rogers.  Of  these, 
all  except  Forster  and  Attwell  rendered  considerable  service 
to  the  mission,  and  in  1895  there  were  still  nine  of  them 
actively  engaged  in  its  service. 

By  these  reinforcements  the  stations  in  and  about  the 
capital  were  strengthened,  the  work  tentatively  begun  in 
Betsileo  was  put  upon  a  sounder  footing,  and  the  Voni- 
zongo  district  was  firmly  occupied.  But  the  circumstances 
of  the  mission  still  exerted  a  very  great  strain  upon  the 
resources  available — educational,  pastoral,  and  evangelistic. 
Moreover,  those  in  London  upon  whom  God  had  placed 
the  great  responsibility  of  directing  and  sustaining  this  vast 
enterprise,  found  it  increasingly  difficult  adequately  to 
comprehend  local  conditions  and  native  character,  and  the 
question  of  the  relation  to  other  Societies  had  also  reached 
an  acute  stage.  In  these  circumstances  they  appointed  in 
1873  a  deputation,  consisting  of  Dr.  Mullens,  the  Foreign 
Secretary,  and  the  Rev.  J.  Pillans,  to  visit  the  island,  and 
in  the  light  of  their  experience  guide  the  Board  to  wise 
action. 

I.  3  B 


738  THE  MALAGASY  CHURCH:  1S70~1S95 

The  deputation  reached  Antananarivo  on  August  30, 
i(S73,  but  the  queen  was  absent  on  a  royal  progress.  Con- 
sequently a  visit  was  made  to  the  important  Betsileo  pro- 
vince, and  arrangements  made  for  the  vigorous  conduct 
and  extension  of  the  mission  there.  On  the  return  of  the 
queen  the  deputation  had  an  interview  with  her,  and  pre- 
sented to  her  an  address  from  the  Directors.  Visits  were 
then  paid  to  all  the  stations  in  the  country  regions  of 
Imerina.  In  January,  1874,  a  very  important  conference 
was  held,  at  which  the  London  Missionary  Society,  Nor- 
wegian, and  Friends'  missionaries  were  present,  and  where 
all  departments  of  missionary  labour  were  carefully  con- 
sidered with  a  view  to  future  work.  After  visits  to  Lake 
Itasy  and  to  the  Sihanaka  province,  the  deputation  had 
a  farewell  interview  with  the  queen,  and  received  from  her 
a  reply  to  the  Directors'  address.  The  return  journey  was 
made  by  traversing  Madagascar  in  a  north-westerly  direc- 
tion to  Mojanga,  whence  they  sailed  to  Mauritius,  touching 
on  the  way  at  the  island  of  Nosibe.  They  reached  London 
on  September  23,  1874. 

A  visit  of  this  nature  could  not  fail  to  exert  great 
influence  both  in  the  mission  itself  and  over  the  policy  of 
the  Board.  The  workers  in  the  field  came  into  direct 
contact  for  over  a  year  with  Dr.  Mullens  ;  and  he  in  the 
ensuing  Board  discussions  was  enabled  to  deal  with  the 
questions  which  arose  from  the  point  of  view  of  first-hand 
knowledge.  The  chief  points  considered  in  the  conference 
were  education,  the  concentration  of  work  at  suitable 
centres  around  the  capital,  discipline  in  the  native  churches, 
development  of  self-support  in  native  churches,  and  the 
extension  of  work  to  tribes  yet  unevangelized.  In  detail 
some  of  these  suggestions  were  modified,  but  in  the  main 
the  development  of  work  in  Madagascar  during  the  last 
twenty-five  years  of  the  century  was  along  the  lines  settled 
at  this  conference. 

Madagascar,  during  the  last  twenty-five  years  of  the 
century,  was  in  number  of  churches,  converts,  adherents, 
and   proportion   of  Christians  to  the  heathen   population, 


ORIGIN  OF  THE  PALACE   CHURCH  739 

the  most  successful  mission  conducted  by  the  Society. 
The  inner  history  of  the  manifold  Christian  activities 
illustrates  many  important  problems  of  missionary  history. 
They  deserve  to  be  dealt  with  in  full  detail.  But  nothinf^ 
more  can  be  attempted  than  a  rapid  summary,  with  the 
choice  of  illustrative  examples,  which  the  reader  must  take 
as  typical  of  scores  of  other  similar  missionary  achieve- 
ments carried  on  simultaneously.  The  policy  of  the  Society 
from  the  first  in  Madagascar  has  been  to  capture  as 
thoroughly  as  possible  for  the  Master  the  capital  of  the 
island  and  the  province  of  Imerina,  the  heart  and  brain 
of  the  land.  Ever  since  1820  it  has  seemed  the  wise  course 
to  enlighten  and  consolidate  at  the  centre,  and  from  thence 
radiate  to  the  more  degraded  outlying  provinces  and  tribes. 
In  reviewing  the  work  which  followed  the  impulse  given 
by  the  visit  of  Dr.  Mullens  and  Mr.  Pillans,  we  begin  with 
Imerina. 

The  most  important  of  the  suggestions  contained  in 
Budget  Dispatch  No.  4,  already  described,  had  been  acted 
upon  prior  to  the  arrival  of  the  deputation.  Committees 
had  been  constituted,  and  had  already  done  much  to 
restrain  the  vagaries  and  the  cost  of  individual  action. 
A  union  of  the  churches  had  been  established  in  i86(S,  and 
regular  meetings  of  delegates  instituted.  But  personal 
intercourse  with  Dr.  Mullens  and  Mr.  Pillans  did  much  to 
smooth  the  working  of  the  new  machinery,  and  to  remove 
difficulties  due  to  the  personal  faction  in  the  workers. 

By  the  year  icSjo  the  Palace  Church,  native  city  churches, 
suburban  churches,  and  country  churches  were  in  full 
activity. 

I.  Of  these  the  Palace  Church  constituted  a  class  by 
itself.  It  grew  exactly  like  the  other  churches,  but  exerted 
a  unique  influence  because  situated  within  the  palace,  and 
attended  by  the  queen,  prime  minister,  and  many  high 
officials.  Yet  *  it  never  gained  precedence,  or  exercised 
undue  authority  over  the  rest  ;  but  in  a  Christian  and 
unassuming  manner  always  showed  itself  ready  to  assist 
the  poorer  and  weaker  churches,  and  co-operated  heartily 

3  B  2 


740  THE  MALAGASY  CHURCH:  1S70-1895 

with  the  native  missionary  society  in  its  efforts  to  send 
the  Gospel  to  the  heathen  ^.' 

The  building  was  opened  April  8,  1880,  the  occasion 
being  one  of  the  highest  national  importance.  The  mis- 
sionaries of  the  London,  Friends',  and  Norwegian  Societies 
attended  ;  the  Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel 
and  the  Roman  Catholic  representatives,  though  invited, 
declined  to  come.  The  prime  minister  gave  on  this  occasion 
a  deeply  interesting  sketch  of  the  origin  and  history  of  the 
Church,  from  which  we  cull  a  few  extracts : — 

'  My  heart  inclines  me,  in  accordance  with  your  request, 
to  put  in  order  a  few  words,  showing  the  history  of  the 
origin  of  the  "  praying  "  here  in  the  palace,  and  the  way  in 
which  God  has  inclined  the  heart  of  the  queen  to  build 
this  house  here  in  the  midst  of  her  palaces  for  the  worship 
of  God.  If  we  consider  what  led  the  queen  to  pray,  it  can 
be  truly  said  she  was  not  influenced  by  man,  but  that 
it  was  God  alone  who  disposed  her  heart  towards  the 
"  praying."  There  is  one  thing,  however,  which  I  think  it 
well  you  should  be  made  acquainted  with. 

'  During  the  reign  of  Queen  Rasoherina,  there  was  a 
Bible  (this  which  I  now  show  to  you)  which  I  placed  in  the 
house  where  she  dwelt,  and  which  was  regarded  as  common 
property,  for  it  was  freely  handled  by  every  one  who  was 
able  to  read  ;  and  this  Bible  was  always  lying  about  as 
a  thing  of  no  importance.  On  April  3,  1868,  when  Queen 
Ranavalona  came  to  the  throne,  this  Bible  was  still  there, 
and  was  still  freely  handled  by  the  people  as  before. 
During  the  days  of  mourning  for  Rasoherina,  the  queen 
often  read  in  this  Bible  to  pass  away  the  time,  and  even 
the  officers  about  the  court  and  the  "  twelve  youths " 
(under-secretaries  in  the  palace)  took  it  up  when  they 
were  at  leisure.  And  I  believe  that  the  reading  of  this 
l^ible  by  the  queen  was  the  means  by  which  God  disposed 
her  heart  to  pray  to  Him,  and  that  it  did  not  come  from 
man.  On  Sunday  morning,  October  25,  1868,  the  queen, 
myself,  and  a  few  of  the  queen's  personal  attendants,  met 

^   Ten  Years  Review,  i8;o-i88o,  p.  ii6. 


BAPTISM   OF   THE   QUEEN  741 

for  prayer  in  the  centre  room  of  the  palace  called  Maha- 
tsara  ;  and  when  the  service  was  ended  and  we  came  away 
the  queen  sent  for  Rainingory,  sixteen  honours,  and  Raini- 
besa,  fifteen  honours,  and  Rainilambo,  fifteen  honours  (senior 
officers  in  constant  attendance  on  the  queen),  and  said  to 
them  :  "  I  inform  you,  my  fathers  and  mothers,  that  I  shall 
pray  to  God  ;  and  my  reason  for  doing  so  is  this :  I  look  to 
the  heavens,  and  they  did  not  come  of  themselves,  for  some 
one  made  them  ;  and  I  consider  the  earth,  and  it  did  not  come 
of  itself,  for  some  one  made  it.  It  is  God  who  made  these 
things,  and  therefore  I  shall  pray  to  God  ;  and  I  inform 
you  because  you  are  as  my  fathers  and  mothers/'  And 
when  they  heard  that,  they  said  :  "  That  is  good,  your 
Majesty,  and  we  thank  you."  But  although  they  said  this, 
their  countenances  seemed  to  show  that  they  were  sorry. 
And  in  the  evening  we  met  again  for  worship,  as  we  had 
done  in  the  morning.  And  on  the  following  Sunday,  No- 
vember 1,  1868,  Rainingory,  Rainibesa,  and  Rainilambo  met 
together  with  us  for  worship ;  and  from  that  time  the 
Sunday  markets  were  gradually  put  a  stop  to. 

'  On  the  day  previous  to  the  coronation,  the  queen  said 
to  me  :  **  I  will  rest  my  kingdom  upon  God  ;  send  therefore 
for  Andriambelo  and  Ratsilainga  and  Andrianaivoravclona 
and  Rainimanga  and  Rainitavy  (pastors  of  the  city  churches), 
that  they  may  ask  God's  blessing  on  me  and  my  subjects, 
for  God  only  has  made  me  what  I  am."  These  five  men 
were  accordingly  sent  for  at  once,  and  they  read  portions 
of  Scripture  and  offered  prayers  that  night,  and  at 
cock-crowing  next  morning  they  prayed  and  read  the 
Scriptures  again.  After  we  had  held  service  in  the  palace 
for  a  short  time,  the  queen  and  myself  asked  to  be  bap- 
tized ;  and  after  having  been  taught  three  months  by 
Andriambelo  and  Rainimanga,  according  to  the  previous 
custom  of  the  churches,  we  were  baptized  by  Andriambelo 
in  the  room  where  we  had  been  accustomed  to  meet  for 
worship,  and  after  four  months'  further  instruction  we  were 
received  as  communicants  at  the  Lord's  Supper.  On 
December  2j,  ten  months  after  the  baptism  of  the  queen, 


742  THE  MALAGASY  CHURCH :  1S70-1S95 

Rainin£^6ry    and    Rainibesa    and    Rainilambo    were   also 
baptized. 

'  The  number  of  those  who  were  united  with  us  in 
Christian  fellowship,  from  October  25,  1868,  to  October  i, 
1870,  was  twenty-seven,  of  whom  nine  were  adults,  the 
remaining  eighteen  being  young  people  and  their  atten- 
dants. But  though  the  communicants  were  at  that  time 
so  few,  yet  we  expected  that,  by  God's  blessing,  the  number 
would  increase,  and  the  queen  took  into  consideration  the 
erection  of  a  stone  house  of  prayer  within  the  palace 
enclosure.  She  then  communicated  her  intention  to  the 
people,  and  God  fulfilled  to  her  her  desire,  in  that  on 
July  .20,  1869,  she  was  enabled  to  commence  the  erection 
of  this  house.  The  chief  motive,  however,  which  led  to 
the  building  of  this  house  was  the  queen's  desire  that  her 
subjects  should  know  the  true  God  and  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  that  the  "  praying  "  should  never  depart  from 
her  kingdom. 

'A  little  less  than  two  months  after  this  house  of 
prayer  had  been  commenced,  an  event  took  place  which 
could  scarcely  have  been  expected  by  any  one.  On 
September  8,  1869,  the  keepers  of  the  idol  called  Ikeli- 
malaza  came  up  to  the  palace  to  inform  the  queen  of 
their  intention  to  change  horns  (an  idolatrous  ceremony 
formerly  performed  whenever  a  new  sovereign  came  to  the 
throne).  When  this  message  was  given  to  the  queen,  she 
unexpectedly  sent  out  word,  saying :  "  I  will  burn  all  the 
idols  belonging  to  my  ancestors  ;  but  as  to  yours,  that  is 
your  business  \"  And  according  to  these  words  the  queen 
sent  immediately  to  all  the  towns  where  the  idols  of  her 
ancestors  were  kept,  and  had  all  the  idols  burned. 

'  These  two  events  took  place  here  at  that  time,  viz.  the  com- 

A  mistake  has  often  been  made  Avith  regard  to  the  idols  which  on  this  occa- 
sion were  ordered  to  be  destroyed,  in  speaking  of  them  as  national  idols.  They 
were  not  such,  but  were  simply  the  idols  of  the  queen's  ancestors,  of  whom  Her 
Majesty  is  the  living  representative.  They  were,  therefore,  the  queen's  personal 
I)ropcrty,  and  she  had  a  perfect  right  to  orderi  their  destruction.  Each  tribe 
or  family  had  its  own  idols.  With  the  people's  idols  the  queen  did  not 
interfere. 


THE   TOWN  CHURCHES 


743 


mencement  of  this  house  within  the  palace  enclosure  for  the 
worship  of  God,  and  the  burning  of  the  idols  of  the  queen's 
ancestors.  And  my  reason  for  calling  these  great  events 
is  that  one,  viz.  the  erection  of  a  house  of  prayer  within 
the  courtyard  of  the  palace,  was  an  event  which  it  was 
intended  should  never  take  place,  and  the  other  was  the 
bringing  to  naught  of  the  idols  which  had  been  trusted  in 
and  served,  and  which  it  was  believed  could  never  be  taken 
away.  And  it  can  be  truly  said  that  no  one  led  the  queen 
to  do  these  things  except  the  Spirit  of  God  alone.  Thanks 
be  to  God  for  the  gift  of  His  Holy  Spirit,  and  for  thus 
disposing  the  heart  of  the  queen,  who  has  given  us  liberty 
to  pray  in  peace  and  in  joy  as  we  do  at  present. 

'According  to  the  custom  of  the  ancestors,  every  sovereign 
in  Madagascar  has,  at  the  beginning  of  his  or  her  reign, 
either  built  a  new  house  within  the  palace  enclosure,  or 
altered  and  improved  one  already  in  existence  ;  but  when 
Queen  Ranavalona  came  to  the  throne,  the  words  of 
Christ  in  Matt.  vi.  33  entered  into  her  heart :  "  Seek  ye 
first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His  righteousness,  and  all 
these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you.'"*  And  this  stone 
house  of  prayer  to  God  is  the  first  building  the  queen  has 
erected  within  the  precincts  of  the  palace  \' 

The  opening  services  lasted  for  a  fortnight,  all  business 
being  suspended.  Most  of  the  missionaries  were  from 
time  to  time  afterwards  asked  to  preach  and  to  conduct 
the  service  there. 

2.  City  or  Town  Churches.  There  were,  by  18 (So,  fifteen 
of  great  importance  :  nine  in  Antananarivo,  three  in  Fiana- 
rantsoa,  and  three  in  Ambohimanga.  Each  of  these  was 
superintended  by  a  missionary,  and  became  the  centre 
of  a  large  district,  in  which  it  supervised  and  extended  all 
kinds  of  Christian  work.  These  have  been  the  wealthiest 
churches,  and  the  most  advanced  in  Christian  knowledge 
and  experience.  The  religious  life  of  the  members,  espe- 
cially of  the  young,  has  been  more  vigorous,  and  more 
fruitful  in  the  various  forms  of  Christian  activity. 

*    Ten  Years'  Review,  1870-1880,  pp.  120-IJ2. 


744  THE  MALAGASY  CHURCH:  1S70-1S95 

3.  There  were  also  five  important  Suburban  Churches 
around  Antananarivo. 

'These  churches  were  large,  some  of  them  containing 
five  or  six  hundred  communicants,  and  the  usual  Sunday 
congregations  were  equal  to  those  in  some  of  the  larger  city 
churches.  The  character  of  these  congregations,  however, 
was  very  dift'erent  from  that  of  those  in  the  city.  They  con- 
sisted chiefly  of  poor  people  and  slaves,  who  mostly  inhabited 
the  suburbs,  and  preferred  to  have  a  place  of  worship 
of  their  own  rather  than  join  with  their  masters  or  more 
wealthy  neighbours  in  the  city  churches.  Very  little  help 
can  be  expected  from  these  suburban  churches  towards 
evangelistic  work  in  the  country,  or  for  any  other,  purpose. 
It  is  as  much  as  the  people  are  able  to  do  to  support  their 
own  place  of  worship,  and  give  a  little  help  towards  the 
salary  of  their  school-teacher.  They  are,  as  a  rule,  most 
hearty  in  their  worship,  and  very  willing  to  work,  but  they 
have  very  little  money  to  give.  All  these  churches  built 
new  places  of  worship  between  1870  and  1882  ^/ 

4.  The  Country  Churches.  The  spread  of  Christianity 
was  rapid  from  1870  to  1880,  but  this  fact,  so  welcome  in 
itself,  became  the  cause  of  many  difficulties  in  the  work. 
In  1870  there  were  261  country  churches,  20,951  church 
members,  and  131,759  adherents;  in  1880^  1,024  churches, 
68,227  church  members,  and  225,460  adherents,  In  1890 
the  figures  were:  1,223  churches,  59,615  church  members, 
and  248,108  adherents.  The  total  sum  raised  by  the  native 
adherents  for  church  purposes  was,  in  1880,  ;^2,9i6  ;  in  1890, 
;^5,490.  These  statistics  tell  their  own  tale.  During  the 
first  of  these  decades  the  most  rapid  growth  took  place  ; 
during  the  second,  a  winnowing  process  had  to  take  effect. 
The  59,000  church  members  of  1890  represent  a  higher 
and  purer  type  of  Christian  character  than  the  68,000  of 
1880.  The  ^5,490  of  1890  represents  more  intelligent  and 
self-sacrificing  consecration  than  the  ;^2,9i6  of  1880.  With 
these  facts  in  mind,  let  us  look  a  little  more  closely  at  the 

'   7>«  ]'ears'  Review,  1870-1880,  p.  128. 


THE   COUNTRY  CHURCHES 


745 


quality    and    conditions    of    church     Hfe     in    Madagascar 
developed  by  the  stirring  events  of  1868,  1869,  and  1870. 

After  1870,  and  largely  under  the  guidance  of  Mr.  Pool, 
great  progress  was  made  in  chapel  building.  The  small 
and  inconvenient  early  buildings  gradually  gave  way  to 
larger  and  neater  and  cleaner  buildings.  Between  1870  and 
1880  not  less  than  700  of  these  churches  were  constructed, 
many  of  them  of  sun-dried  brick,  the  rest  of  mud. 

No  thoughtful  and  well-informed  man  would  expect  other 
than  slow  progress  from  native  churches  under  the  condi- 
tions which  obtained  in  Madagascar  in  1870.  The  extra- 
ordinary events,  the  wondrous  triumphs  of  the  Gospel,  the 
glowing  accounts  circulated  at  home,  led  many  there  to 
form  most  erroneous  conceptions  both  of  the  extent  and  of 
the  quality  of  the  results  achieved.  The  writer  has  not 
unfrequently  met  Christian  peopi  '  who  have  had  the 
impression  that  the  whole  of  the  island  has  been  evangelized, 
and  that  the  ideas  which  attach  to  a  Christian  church  in 
England  apply  to  these  native  Malagasy  churches.  To 
such  it  has  sometimes  been  a  shock  to  learn  that  not  more 
than  one-fouvtJi  (probably)  of  the  inhabitants  of  Madagascar 
have  ever  heard  the  Gospel^,  and  that  Malagasy  churches 
have  sometimes  refused  to  discipline  their  pastors  even  when 
guilty  of  open  and  notorious  sin.  Had  the  full  and  accurate 
accounts  sent  home  by  our  missionaries  been  more  carefully 
studied,  misconceptions  of  the  kind  referred  to  above  would 
not  have  been  so  common. 

Here,  for  example,  is  a  sketch  of  the  country  churches 
of  the  Ankadibevava  district  of  Imerina,  from  the  pen  of 
Mr.  Jukes,  in  1880.  It  may  fairly  be  taken  as  true  in  the 
main  of  all  the  country  churches  in  the  island. 

'  Of  the  general  character  of  the  churches  it  is  impossible 
not  to  speak  with  some  amount  of  pleasure,  not  unmixed, 
however,  with  feelings  of  grief  and  disappointment.  I  can 
remember  when  most  of  my  churches  were  formed,  ten  or 
eleven  years  ago,  and  often  recall  the  great  masses  of 
untaught  and  unwashed  heathen  that  crowded  into  the 
hastily  erected  rush  chapels,  just  as  they  would  assemble 


746  THE  MALAGASY  CHURCH :   1S70-1S95 

to  listen  to  a  royal  kabary  in  the  market-place,  and  probably 
from  the  same  motive,  and  contrast  them  with  the  compara- 
tively clean  and  orderly  congregations  of  to-day.  This 
remark  applies  chiefly  to  the  congregations  near  the  capital, 
and  not  to  the  distant  ones,  whose  growth  has  been  slow, 
since  necessity  has  left  them  very  much  to  themselves. 
Amidst  much  that  is  deplorable,  undoubted  progress  has 
been  made.  Only  a  short  time  back,  there  were  numbers 
of  congregations  containing  not  a  single  person  who  could 
read  ;  now  there  are  some  in  every  congregation  who  can 
read,  and  in  many  would  be  found  a  pretty  good  number 
who  have  a  fair  acquaintance  with  the  Word  of  God. 

'  A  marked  change  has  also  taken  place  in  the  morality 
of  the  people.  Eleven  years  ago  there  were  polygamists 
in,  perhaps,  every  congregation  ;  and  men  notorious  for 
their  immorality  would  unblushingly  stand  up  in  the  pulpit 
to  parade  their  new  profession  and  display  their  volubility 
by  publicly  offering  prayer.  This  would  scarcely  be  tole- 
rated now,  and  few  would  have  the  boldness  to  attempt  it. 
Ideas  of  moral  purity  are  growing,  and  are  increasingly 
appreciated.  Social  and  moral  questions  are  beginning  to 
call  into  existence  that  powerful  and  useful  potentate 
public  opinion.  Parents,  who  formerly  would  encourage 
their  children  in  sin  and  uncleanness,  are  learning  to  realize 
their  duty  to  shield  their  offspring  all  they  can  from  evil 
influence  and  temptation.  I  fear  that  even  amongst 
numbers  who  bear  the  Christian  name  there  is  still  much 
wickedness,  and  that  many  an  edifice  we  fondly  imagine  is 
substantial  and  lasting  rests  upon  a  foundation  of  rotten- 
ness ;  but  not  a  few  of  those  sins  which  were  openly  gloried 
m  are  now  concealed  or  disguised,  and  bring  shame  and 
confusion  of  face  when  discovered. 

'  Of  the  spiritual  and  religio?is  condition  of  the  churches  it 
behoves  one  to  speak  with  caution.  That  our  churches  con- 
tain real  disciples  of  the  Lord  Jesus  I  cannot  for  one  moment 
doubt  ;  but  that  the  majority  of  the  members  have  a  very 
low  conception  of  the  Christian  life  is  equally  certain.  The 
moral  sense,  long  hid  and  wellnigh  choked  by  idolatry  and 


NATIVE  PASTORS  AXD    TEACHERS  747 

its  concomitant  evils,  is,  as  yet,  only  in  its  germinal  state ; 
but  with  the  grace  of  God  in  the  heart  it  must  develop,  and 
is  now,  we  know,  doing  so.  Although  their  notions  are 
somewhat  confused  and  indistinct,  the  native  Christians 
hold  firmly  to  the  doctrine  of  justification  by  faith  in  Jesus  ; 
but  they  fail  to  rise  to  the  ideal  of  self-abnegation,  and 
personal  holiness,  by  the  indwelling  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and 
vital  union  with  the  living  Saviour.  What  has  painfully 
struck  me  for  years  past  in  the  Malagasy  converts,  is  the 
absence  of  a  deep  sense  of  the  "  exceeding  sinfulness  "  of  all 
sin,  and  an  earnest  desire  to  live  above  the  world.  They 
speak  about  sin  against  the  Almighty  with  apparently  far 
less  concern  than  when  referring  to  grievous  offences  against 
the  sovereign  ^' 

5.  The  Native  Pastors,  Preachers,  and  Evangelists. 
The  i,2Co  Malagasy  native  churches  have  had  to  rely 
upon  native  pastors,  aided  by  the  superintendence,  some- 
times close,  but  in  the  vast  majority  of  cases  necessarily 
slight,  of  a  European  missionary.  Pastors  had  to  be 
found.  Large  numbers  of  these  were  the  best  that  could 
be  obtained — not  by  any  means  the  best  that  could  be 
desired.  Those  presiding  over  churches  in  the  towns  have 
usually  been  of  good  social  position,  of  some  thorough 
training,  and  of  considerable  experience  in  public  affairs. 
Consequently  they  have  been  for  the  most  part  men  of 
influence,  and  their  influence  has  been  for  good.  With  the 
country  pastors  it  is  very  different. 

'The  majority  of  these  hav^e  had  no  special  training  for 
their  work.  With  few  exceptions  they  are  men  of  ver}- 
limited  knowledge.  Some  of  them  never  preach,  and  a  few 
are  even  unable  to  read.  Why,  then,  it  may  reasonably  be 
asked,  have  these  men  been  made  pastors  ?  It  was  simpl\' 
because  they  were  the  best  men  that  could  be  found  for 
the  position.  In  some  instances  men  have  been  chosen  for 
pastors  because  they  have  been  persons  of  influence  and 
authority  in  the  village,  and  the  pastorate  has  been  offered 
them  as  a  position  of  honour.     In   most  cases,  however, 

^   Ten  Years'  Review,  1870-1880,  p.  128. 


748  THE  MALAGASY  CHURCH:  1S70-1S95 

they  have  been  selected  for  the  very  good  reason  that  they 
were  the  best  men  in  the  place  with  regard  to  Christian 
character,  prudence,  and  ability  to  preserve  order. 

'About  1876,  a  number  of  the  country  pastors,  who  had 
previously  served  in  the  army,  were  freed  from  Government 
service,  and  left  at  liberty  to  give  the  whole  of  their  time  to 
the  work  of  the  churches.  Many  of  the  pastors,  however 
(and  amongst  these  most  of  the  pastors  of  the  town 
churches),  still  retain  their  position  in  the  army,  or  in  the 
Government,  in  addition  to  their  pastorates.  Some  of  these 
are  men  of  ten,  twelve,  or  fourteen  honours,  which  gives 
them  a  position  of  influence  among  the  people,  and  a  corre- 
sponding responsibility  in  Government  business.  This  may 
appear  to  some  people  a  strange  and  anomalous  state  of 
things,  and  no  doubt  it  is  so,  looked  at  from  an  English 
standpoint ;  but  what  would  be  anomalous  in  England 
may  be  perfectly  consistent  and  reasonable  in  Madagascar. 
The  missionaries  might  perhaps  prefer  that  all  the  native 
pastors  were  free  from  Government  service,  but  the  country 
is  scarcely  ripe  for  this  as  yet.  It  should  also  be  understood 
that  the  political  position  of  these  men  does  not  in  the  least 
interfere  with  their  duties  as  pastors  of  the  churches,  beyond 
the  occupation  of  a  small  portion  of  their  time  which  is 
necessarily  taken  up  in  attending  to  their  special  Govern- 
ment business  ^' 

In  addition  to  the  native  pastors,  there  were,  in  1880, 
nearly  4,000  native  preachers.  Here  again  the  influence  of 
European  ideas  gave  rise  to  very  false  impressions  in  the 
minds  of  many  in  Great  Britain. 

•  A  large  number  of  these  preachers  are  scarcely  worthy 
of  being  recognized  as  preachers  at  all,  and  much  of  their 
preaching  is  of  a  most  profitless  character.  Young  men 
who  are  barely  able  to  read,  but  who  can  stand  up  and 
address  the  people  for  five  or  ten  minutes  on  any  subject 
whatever,  are  sometimes  appointed  as  preachers,  and  re- 
ported as  such  in  the  annual  returns  of  the  churches.  The 
Malagasy  are  fluent  speakers,  and  are  exceedingly  fond  of 

^   Ten  Years  Review^  1 870-1 880,  p.  135. 


NATIVE  EJ'AXCjELISTS  749 

public  speaking ;  and  as  preaching  gives  them  frequent 
opportunity  of  exercising  their  favourite  gift,  it  happens 
that  many  are  put  on  the  preaching  roll  whose  knowledge 
of  the  Scriptures  and  Christian  experience  are  exceedingly 
limited. 

'  We  must  say,  however,  that  this  is  not  the  character  of 
all  our  native  preachers.  There  are  some  among  them 
of  whom  we  have  just  reason  to  be  proud,  and  who  are  of 
great  service  to  the  Church.  We  are  also  pleased  to  notice 
that  there  has  been  a  great  improvement  in  the  style  of 
native  preaching  during  the  last  few  years.  The  churches 
are  beginning  to  appreciate  a  higher  and  more  edif\'ing 
kind  of  preaching,  and  the  young  men  are  growing  rapidly 
in  intelligence  and  Scripture  knowledge.  Many  who  were 
preachers  a  few  years  ago  have  now  retired,  being  conscious 
of  their  unfitness  for  the  work  ;  and  there  are  some  who, 
though  well  able  to  preach  with  profit  to  their  hearers,  are 
yet  reluctant  to  officiate  too  frequently,  being  anxious  to 
make  more  thorough  preparation  and  to  discharge  their 
duty  more  worthily'.' 

The  mission  employed  also  Native  Evangelists.  At  first 
the  great  majority  of  these  were  untrained,  and  yet  pos- 
sessed of  much  Scripture  knowledge  ;  they  were  also  for 
the  most  part  faithful  and  zealous.  Since  the  establishment 
of  the  Theological  College,  and  the  sending  out  in  1873  of 
the  first  company  of  students  who  had  completed  their 
course,  trained  evangelists  were  more  and  more  sought 
after. 

•  Many  of  the  most  important  towns  in  the  two  central 
provinces,  several  stations  in  Antsihanaka,  and  a  number  of 
places  on  the  east  coast,  are  occupied  by  these  trained 
evangelists,  who  have  done  excellent  work  in  the  churches 
and  schools  under  their  care.  The  salaries  of  these  teachers 
arc  higher  than  the  salaries  of  the  untrained  agents,  and 
vary  according  to  family  and  other  circumstances.  They 
are  maintained  partly  by  the  London  Missionary  Society, 
partly  by  the  native  churches,  and  partly  also  by  the  private 

■    7'cn  ]'ea/s'  Review,  1870-1880,  p.  137. 


750  THE  MALAGASY  CHURCH:  1870-1S95 

friends  of  the  missionaries.  Some  of  them  have  been  sent 
out  by  the  native  missionary  society,  and  several  others  are 
supported  by  the  palace  church  \' 

6.  On  the  Government  of  the  numerous  Native  Churches, 
Malagasy  ideas  have  exerted  considerable  influence.  The 
pastor  is  almost  always  chosen  from  among  themselves 
by  the  members.  Local  conditions  have  also  powerfully 
influenced  the  constitution  of  the  churches.  Mr.  J.  S. 
Sewell,  of  the  Society  of  Friends,  speaking  at  the  annual 
meeting  of  the  London  Missionary  Society  in  1872,  said: — 

'  In  the  central  part  of  the  island,  during  the  days  of  the 
persecution,  there  arose  a  church  that  is  not  exactly  in 
accordance  either  with  the  Independent  Church,  or  the 
Episcopalian,  or  the  Methodist,  or  the  Society  of  Friends. 
The  nation  has  a  church  of  its  own.  In  many  respects  it 
is  formed  after  the  model  of  the  Independent  Church.  Its 
pastors  and  officers  are  chosen  by  the  people,  and  the  ordi- 
nances are  regarded  in  the  light  in  which  they  are  regarded 
amongst  the  Independents.  But  in  the  metropolitan 
character  of  the  churches  at  the  capital,  and  in  the  episcopal 
character  of  the  pastors  who  preside  in  them,  and  still  more 
of  the  missionaries  who  influence  them,  there  is  not  a  little 
of  the  episcopal  form  of  government.  In  some  instances 
thirty  or  forty  preachers  belonging  to  one  church  take 
their  turn  in  the  services,  and  go  out  to  visit  in  the  district 
belonging  to  the  church — an  arrangement  similar  to  that 
which  is  made  among  the  Methodists.  In  that  way  there 
has  been  a  great  success  -.' 

Upon  this  the  missionaries,  in  their  TeJi  Years'  Review 
for  1870  to  ]88o,  thus  comment: 

'  Of  late  years  there  has  been  a  gradual  approach  to  the 
Presbyterian  form  of  church  government,  and  the  form 
which  prevails  at  the  present  time  is  a  sort  of  compromise 
between  Presbyterianism  and  Independency,  with  a  little 
mixture  of  Episcopalianism.  The  Presbyterian  element  is 
seen   in   the    influence   which    district    and    representative 

J   Ten  Years'  I^eview,  1870-1880,  p.  141. 
^  Quoted  in  ibid.  p.  143. 


NATIVE   CHURCH   GOVERNMENT  751 

meetings  have  on  the  churches  generally.  There  are  very- 
few  country  churches  which  stand  absolutely  alone.  In 
addition  to  the  influence  of  the  missionaries  and  of  the  town 
pastors  and  churches,  the  churches  in  the  country  are  more 
or  less  united  to  each  other.  In  some  cases  united  church 
meetings  are  held  for  the  admission  of  members  and  the 
transaction  of  other  business.  In  Imerina  and  Betsileo 
united  monthly  prayer-meetings  are  held,  at  which  five  or 
six  or  more  churches  come  together  for  prayer  and  mutual 
exhortation.  At  some  of  these  meetings,  after  the  ordinary 
service  has  been  brought  to  a  close,  matters  affecting  the 
interests  of  the  churches  represented  are  discussed,  and 
uniformity  of  action  is  thus  promoted.  In  addition  to  these 
monthly  gatherings,  there  are  "four-monthly"  or  "six- 
monthly  "  meetings  held  in  each  district  in  Imerina,  and 
attended  by  representatives  from  all  the  churches  in  the 
district.  These  representative  meetings  are  of  great 
importance,  and  have  been  productive  of  much  good  to 
many  of  the  churches.  Difficult  cases  of  church  discipline, 
the  conduct  of  public  worship,  and  many  other  questions 
affecting  the  life  and  government  of  the  churches,  are  dis- 
cussed at  these  meetings,  and  any  conclusion  arrived  at  is 
usually  received  as  morally  binding  on  the  churches  repre- 
sented. Over  and  above  all  these  smaller  and  local 
associations  are  the  Congregational  Unions  of  Imerina  and 
Betsileo,  which  have  grown  to  be  institutions  of  considerable 
power  and  importance,  and  have  great  influence  on  the 
outward  life  of  the  churches  \' 

7.  The  Madagascar  Congregational  Union  came  into  exis- 
tence in  December,  1868.  It  is  known  to  the  natives  as 
'  The  Six-monthly  Meeting,'  because  it  is  held  twice  a  year. 
The  first  gathering  took  place  in  the  Memorial  Church  at 
Ambatonakanga.  Twelve  delegates  came  from  each  city, 
and  six  from  each  country  church  ;  but  in  consequence  of 
the  rapid  growth  of  churches  the  numbers  soon  had  to  be 
six  and  three  respectively.     The  objects  were  : — 

(i)  To  meet  together  for  united  prayer  to  God,  and  for 

*    Ten  Years'  Rcvic'u,  J870-1SS0,  p.  144. 


752  THE  MALAGASY  CHURCH:  1S70-1S95 

mutual  counsel  according  to  the  Word  of  God.  (2)  To 
promote  mutual  love  among  all  the  churches,  and  to  show 
forth  their  unity  in  the  faith  of  Jesus  Christ.  (3)  To  con- 
sider what  is  right  to  be  done  to  improve  the  practice  of 
the  churches,  especially  in  those  matters  which  are  great 
and  essential  ;  nevertheless,  not  to  lay  down  laws,  but  to 
give  counsel.  (4)  To  consider  what  is  right  to  be  done  to 
promote  the  kingdom  of  Christ. 

Originally  the  days  of  meeting  were  Tuesday  and 
Wednesday  ;  of  late  years  they  have  been  Wednesday  and 
Thursday.  On  the  first  day,  in  the  afternoon,  a  preparatory 
meeting  of  praise  and  prayer  was  held,  and  on  the  second 
day  the  session  proper,  beginning  at  8  a.m.  and  lasting 
about  five  hours. 

'  The  largest  churches  in  the  capital,  in  which  the  meet- 
ings are  held,  are  always  thronged,  and  often  numbers 
crowd  round  the  doors  and  windows,  unable  to  obtain  even 
standing-room  within  the  building.  A  collection  of  twelve 
hundred  or  more  professedly  Christian  men,  to  consider 
matters  relating  to  the  prosperity  of  the  Kingdom  of  Christ 
in  their  land,  is  a  sight  to  make  one's  heart  glad.  Mis- 
sionaries and  natives  have  read  papers,  followed  by  free 
discussion,  on  :  "  The  Obligation  of  Christians  to  spread 
the  Gospel  ;  "  "  Sunday  and  Day  Schools  ;  "  "  Preaching  ;" 
''  Christian  Union  ;  "  "  Duties  of  Pastors  and  Preachers  ;  " 
-What  constitutes  a  Christian  Church;"  "  Hindrances  to 
the  Spread  of  the  Gospel,"  and  other  subjects  bearing  upon 
the  religious,  social,  and  educational  welfare  of  the  people. 

'  The  discussions  are  generally  animated  and  interesting, 
and  give  the  missionaries  a  valuable  opportunity  of  seeing 
the  native  mode  of  looking  at  things.  There  is  rarely  any 
lack  of  speakers,  for  most  Malagasy  have  the  gift  of  public 
speech,  and  nervousness  or  timidity  in  addressing  an  audi- 
ence is  seldom  known.  Half  a  dozen  men  will  rise  together 
to  give  utterance  to  their  thoughts— sometimes  not  very 
lucid,  and  far  from  relevant  — and  the  chairman  has  no  little 
difficulty  in  deciding  who  shall  have  the  precedence,  or  in 
persuading  the  others  to  resume  their  seats  until  their  turn 


MADAGASCAR    CONGREGATIO.XAL    UNION      753 

shall  arrive.  A  novel  remark  or  proposal  of  special  interest 
is  followed  by  a  hubbub  of  loud  talk  all  over  the  church,  so 
that  it  is  necessary  to  allow  a  few  minutes  for  general  con- 
versation,  "  to  let  off  the  steam,"  and  then  a  dog  whistle  is 
called  into  requisition  in  order  to  restore  silence  and  give 
the  next  speaker  an  opportunity  of  being  heard  ^.' 

In  later  years  it  cannot  be  the  custom  for  the  chair  to 
be  occupied  alternately  by  a  missionary  and  a  native,  and 
a  missionary  and  a  native  acted  conjointly  as  secretaries. 
The  review  of  the  mission  in  1890  emphasized  the  great 
importance  of  these  gatherings  : — 

'  We  cannot  well  over-estimate  the  utility  and  importance 
of  our  Isan-Enii7i-Bolana.  It  not  only  affords  a  periodical 
religious  stimulus,  the  influence  of  which  extends  all  over 
Imerina  and  beyond,  but  it  is  the  means  of  supplying 
information  and  guidance  in  m.atters  connected  with  church 
and  school  that  are  greatly  needed,  and  brings  the  hun- 
dreds of  churches  scattered  throughout  the  central  province 
into  such  sympathetic  unison  with  each  other  that,  in  all 
great  and  important  affairs,  they  may  act  on  common 
lines.  Although  the  Isan-Enini-Bolana  is  not  a  legislative 
assembly,  and  its  resolutions  are  not  intended  to  have  the 
force  of  legal  enactments,  yet  the  associated  churches,  as 
a  rule,  recognize  the  moral  obligation  to  observe  them. 

'  Simultaneously  with  the  holding  of  the  great  assembly 
of  representatives  of  the  churches  every  half-year,  a  meeting 
for  women  only  is  held  in  the  Memorial  Church  at  Amba- 
tonakanga.  This  is  not  a  gathering  for  the  transaction  of 
business,  or  discussion,  but  for  devotion  and  counsel  relative 
to  the  social  and  domestic,  as  well  as  the  religious,  life  of 
the  people.  The  arrangements  are  entirely  in  the  hands  of 
the  ladies  of  the  mission,  who,  with  the  assistance  of  some 
of  the  native  women,  read  suitable  papers,  deliver  addresses, 
and  conduct  the  whole  proceedings.  The  church  is  nearly 
always  filled  with  women  and  girls  ;  and  the  results  of  such 
meetings  cannot  but  show  themselves  bcneficiallv'  in  the 
home  life  of  the  Malagasy  '^' 

'   Ten  Years"  Rcvieiv,  1880-1890,  p.  35.  2  ji,id.  p.  36. 

I.  3C 


754  THE  MALAGASY  CHURCH:  1870-1895 

In  1H75,  a  native  missionary  society  was  formed. 

'  This  Society  is  supported  by  the  Christians  of  Imerina, 
most  of  the  churches  contributing,  those  in  the  country 
in  sums  from  twopence  to  a  dollar,  and  those  in  town 
about  five  dollars  each  every  half-year ;  the  contributions 
are  brought  up  to  the  capital  when  the  pastors  and  dele- 
gates assemble  for  the  sixth  monthly  meeting.  During  the 
years  1880-90  a  total  of  more  than  ;^3,ooo — a  large  sum 
for  this  country — has  been  subscribed  for  the  Missionary 
Society.  A  missionary  acts  as  treasurer,  but  the  selection 
of  candidates  for  evangelistic  work  and  all  the  details  of 
business  are  managed  by  the  Isan-Enim-Bolana  Committee. 

'Between  1880  and  1890  twenty- three  young  men,  evan- 
gelists and  school  teachers,  were  appointed  to  labour 
amongst  the  Bara  in  the  south,  the  Tanosy  in  the  south- 
east, and  the  Sakalava  in  the  west,  north,  and  north-west — 
all  heathen  tribes  amongst  whom  little  or  no  Christian 
effort  had  hitherto  been  attempted.  The  Hova  have  ren- 
dered themselves  so  obnoxious  to  the  surrounding  tiibes 
by  past  years  of  cruelty  and  oppression  that  these  tribes 
are  by  no  means  eager  to  have  anything  to  do  with  the 
"'  praying,"  which  is  regarded  as  the  Hova  religion  ;  and 
teachers  from  Imerina  are  looked  upon  with  suspicion  and 
distrust.  It  betokens  a  great  change,  which  only  the  grace 
of  God  could  effect,  that  Christian  Hova  are  willing  to  go 
forth  with  no  weapon  but  the  Gospel  in  their  hands,  and 
their  fellow  Christians  in  Imerina  are  ready  to  support 
them  with  their  offerings  and  their  prayers,  while  they 
endeavour  to  lift  up  to  the  knowledge  of  God's  love  those 
sunken  in  ignorance  and  degradation,  whom  their  fathers 
treated  with  nothing  but  contempt  and  brutality  ^' 

'    Ten  Years'  Review^  1880- 1890,  pp.  7,7,  38. 

(Authorities. — Letters  and  Reports;  but  all  readers  desirous  of  studying 
the  important  details  of  Malagasy  church  life  should  consult  the  Ten  Years 
Review,  printed  at  Antananarivo  for  1870-1880,  and  1880-1890,  and  also  the 
numerous  printed  reports  of  the  work  at  the  different  stations.  These  abound 
in  information  of  great  value  and  interest.] 


tndry 

MADAGASCAR 

IMERINA,    SIHANAKA  & 
BETSIMISARAKA    MISSIONS. 

Scale  1:8,700.000. 
Statute  Mi2«t 
ii       is      Si      So      *S 


-J 


G.ord.  Huhp  A  ;"oii  l..»Aoa  \  lit^<t'">l 


CHAPTER  XXXIII 

THE   SPREAD   OF   CHRTSTIAXITV   BEYOND    IMERIXA 

A  GREAT  part  of  the  strength  and  working  power  of  the 
mission  has  centred  ever  since  1862  in  Imerina,  the  domi- 
nant province  of  the  country,  with  an  estimated  population 
of  ijioOjOco  evangeHzed,  of  whom  about  190,000  have 
become  adherents  ^. 

'The  province  of  Imerina  is  divided,  so  far  as  the  work 
of  the  London  Missionary  Society  is  concerned,  into  thirteen 
districts,  each  (when  we  have  a  full'  staff,  which  is  seldom, 
if  ever,  the  case)  superintended  by  a  European  missionary, 
and  containing  native  churches  varying  from  103  to  22 
in  number.  The*  head  quarters  of  eight  of  these  districts 
is  in  Antananarivo.  It  is  there  that  the  missionaries  in 
charge  of  them  live.  Those  of  five  are  in  the  country,  at 
a  distance  of  from  twelve  to  thirty  miles  from  the  capital. 
Plurality  of  benefices  is  a  common  evil  here — needless  to 
say,  without  plurality  of  income,  though  with  great  increase 
of  labour  and  responsibility.  The  tutors  at  the  college, 
the  head  masters  of  the  normal  and  palace  schools,  the 
superintendents  of  education  and  of  the  printing  office,  while 
carrying  on  their  own  special  work,  also  do  what  they  can 
in  the  superintendence  of  small  districts,  while  there  arc 
few  missionaries  in  charge  of  districts  who  have  not,  from 
time  to  time,  had  to  take  over  the  charge  of  other  districts 
in  addition,  during  the  absence  on  furlough  of  fellow  mis- 
sionaries.    The  work  carried  on  in  these  thirteen  districts, 

*  For  full  details  of  this  work,  with  mnps  of  the  districts,  seethe  Ten  Years 
Revteiv  for  1S70-18S0  and  for  1S80-1890.  Readers  who  wish  to  look  closely 
into  the  details  of  missionary  work  of  the  exceptional  kind  possible  in  Mada- 
gascar will  find  these  volumes  most  instructive. 

3c  2 


756  SPREAD  OF  CHRISTIANITY  BEYOND  IMERINA 

while   each  has   its  peculiar  features,   is    in   the   main   on 
common  lines.' 

The  good  work  done  in  all  of  these  districts,  and  the 
details  of  it  which  in  many  cases  are  full  of  encouragement 
and  instruction,  can  be  studied  in  the  various  local  reports, 
of  which  a  large  number  has  been  issued — usually  at 
least  one  a  year  from  each  of  the  thirteen  districts.  The 
work  at  these  stations  illustrates  many  important  features 
in  native  character,  in  church  growth  and  discipline,  and 
in  the  problems  certain  to  arise  when  large  numbers  of 
heathen  become  suddenly  Christian  by  profession  rather 
than  by  intelligent  apprehension  of  the  Gospel. 

The  mapping  out  of  Imerina  into  missionary  districts 
began  in  1863.  These  are  Ambatonakanga.  Amparibe, 
under  the  charge  of  W.  E.  Cousins  since  i(S62,  Analakely, 
Ambohipotsy,  Tsiafahy,  Ankadibevava,  Ambohitantely, 
Ampamarinana,  Ambohibeloma,  Andohalo,  Isoavina,  Fara- 
vohitra,  Ambohimanga,  the  ancient  capital  of  Imerina,  and 
Vonizongo.  In  1895  the  list  of  districts  was  the  same, 
except  that  Ambohitantely  had  been  handed  over  to  the 
Friends,  Andohalo  and  Isoavina  are  combined  into  one, 
and  there  is  a  new  district,  Isotry — thirteen  in  all.  The 
same  plan  has  been  followed  in  the  Betsileo  Mission,  and 
to  some  extent  in  Antsihanaka  country.  Greatly  to  the 
author's  regret,  the  exigencies  of  space  will  not  permit 
detailed  reference  to  the  manifold  and  highly  important 
Christian  work  diligently  carried  on  in  these  districts. 

From  the  foundation  of  the  mission  concentration  of 
effort  upon  the  capital  and  the  province  of  Imerina  has 
been  a  settled  policy.  But  from  the  same  period  also 
plans  for  the  evangelizing  of  other  great  districts  have 
been  kept  steadily  in  view,  and  some  of  them  at  any  rate 
partially  accomplished. 

1.  BETSILfco.  From  1861  onwards  the  eyes  of  the  mission- 
aries were  upon  the  great  province  of  Betsileo,  but  little  or 
nothing  had  been  done  for  the  Betsileo  province  prior  to 
1 870-     This  large  district,  lying  to  the  south   of  Imerina 


THE  BETS  J  LEO  MISSION  757 

and  contiguous  with  it,  had  long  been  before  the  minds  of 
both  Directors  and   missionaries  as  a  promising  field   for 
the  extension  of  work.     Mr.  Toy  and  Mr.  Jukes  visited  the 
district  in  1868,  and  Mr.  Jukes  alone  in  1869.     In  August, 
1870,  the  Rev.  J.  Richardson  established  himself  at  Fiana- 
rantsoa,  the  chief  town  of  the  province,  and  assumed  charge 
of  the  three  native  churches  there.     With  Mr.  Street  of  the 
Friends'  Mission,  who  was  at  Fianarantsoa  on  a  visit,  he 
made  a  journey  through  the  district,  travelling  as  far  as 
the  Tanala.     The  mission  was  further  strengthened  by  the 
arrival  of  the  Rev.  VV.  Attwell  and  Mr.  G.  A.  Shaw  from 
Samoa.     In  1872  the  Rev.  T.  Brockway  joined  the  mission, 
and  the  Rev.  J.  Richardson  went  to  Antananarivo  to  take 
charge  of  the  normal  school  there.     The  mission  was  now 
divided  into  three  districts  ;  the  north-west  and  the  southern 
corresponding  to  the  tribes  Isandra  and  larindrano,  being 
Mr.  Brockway 's  sphere,  while  Mr.  Attwell  took  the  eastern, 
the  Ilalangina.     Mr.  Shaw,  who  was  a  schoolmaster,  and 
had  been  sent  out  for  educational  work,  made  that  duty 
his    special   province,   conducting   two   elementary  schools 
and  a  normal  school  for  teachers.     The  three  missionaries 
constituted  the  Betsileo  District  Committee.     In  1873  the 
queen  visited  the  province,  and  in  the  autumn  of  the  same 
}ear  the  deputation,  together  with  Messrs.  \V.  E.  Cousins 
and  Cameron,  travelled   through  it.     This  year  also  Dr. 
Parker  came  to  take  up  medical  mission-work,  and  Messrs. 
T.  Rogers  and  J.  Riordan  also  arrived  on  the  field.     Con- 
sequently ]\Ir.  Brockway  went  to  Ambositra,  Mr.  Riordan 
to    Ambohimandroso.      Changes    soon   took   place   in   the 
staff.      Mr.    Att well's    health  was   unsatisfactory,  and    he 
found  it  very  difficult  to  gain  any  control  over  the  language. 
He  returned  to  England,  and  Mr.  Rogers,  after  a  brief  stay, 
first  at  Fianarantsoa  and  then  at  Ambositra,  returned  to 
Antananarivo.    In  December,  1874,  Mr.  W.  D.  Cowan  went 
to  Fianarantsoa,  but  in   1875  Mrs.  Riordan's  health  gave 
way;    in    1878    she    and    her    husband,    accompanied    by 
Mr.    Shaw,   returned    to    England.      Dr.   Parker   accepted 
a  post  under  the  Government,  resigned,  and  was  succeeded 


758  SPREAD  OF  CHRISTIANITY  BEYOND  IMERINA 

in  1875  by  Mr.  Cowan.  In  the  same  year  the  Rev.  C.  T. 
Price  arrived,  and  in  1877  took  up  work  at  Ifanjakana. 
Notwithstanding  these  rapid  changes  work  in  the  province 
went  steadily  forward  and  the  mission  was  placed  upon 
a  solid  foundation.  In  proof  of  this  we  instance  a  passage 
from  the  Ten  Years  Reviezu  issued  in  1880 : — 

'In  1870  there  were  twenty-nine  churches  south  of  the 
Matsiatra,  inchiding  the  three  town  churches  (Antranobrika, 
Ivohidahy,  and  Ambalavao),  the  members  of  which  were, 
ahnost  without  exception,  Hova  soldiers  or  traders  resident 
in  the  province.  Many  of  the  members,  and  even  pastors, 
were  at  that  time  ignorant  of  the  main  truths  of  the  Gospel, 
and  their  characters  were  far  from  being  above  reproach. 
The  pastors  were  in  several  instances  self-elected,  and  had 
no  proper  qualifications  for  the  office  they  had  assumed. 
Of  those  who  attended  church,  the  majority  were  influenced 
more  by  the  example  of  the  queen  than  by  any  religious 
views  they  held.  From  the  time  of  the  arrival  of  the 
missionaries,  the  churches  made  a  steady  advance  both  in 
town  and  country.  Towards  the  end  of  1872,  when 
rumours  of  the  queen's  intended  visit  began  to  be  circu- 
lated, there  was  a  large  influx  both  of  Hova  and  Betsileo 
into  the  churches.  The  visit  of  the  queen  did  much  to 
strengthen  the  hands  of  the  missionaries,  and  gave  a  certain 
stability  to  the  churches  under  their  charge.  From  1873 
to  the  present  time,  the  progress  of  the  churches  has  been 
steady.  Many  of  those  who  attached  themselves  to  the 
churches,  just  before  the  visit  of  the  queen,  have  fallen 
away,  but  many  others  have  joined  them  from  far  higher 
motives  than  those  did  who  have  left.  The  churches  of 
to-day  stand  on  a  far  higher  and  nobler  platform  than  did 
those  of  ten  years  ago.  There  has  been  improvement  and 
advance  in  every  respect.  Pastors,  preachers,  deacons,  and 
members  are  like  a  new  generation. 

'  During  the  past  six  years  large  numbers  of  Betsileo 
have  been  admitted  to  the  churches,  and  now  they  form 
about  one-third  of  the  whole.  In  1870  there  were  in  con- 
nection with   the  mission   thirteen   preachers,  all   of  them 


9 

D 
C 

e 


:S 

n 

.V 

n 
:s 
i- 
e 

IS 

le 

1- 
o 

:s 

d 
is 
le 

rs 


id 

St 

to 
se 
ic 

ly 


MADAGASCAR 

BETSILEO  &  SOUTH-EAST 
COAST  MISSION^ 

Scale  1:  2,700,000. 
_  StatuteMU^es 


.1 


^eors>  ¥h^  ,'^^K^iLlM\A<iaS^h.v»rpod 


STATE   OF   THE   BETS  I  EEC   L\  1S90  759 

Hova,  and  even  in  I'S;^  there  was  only  one  Retsileo 
preacher.  The  number  of  preachers  has  steadily  in- 
creased as  the  mission  has  been  extended.  There  arc 
now  in  connection  with  the  town  churches  seventy-six 
preachers,  about  thirty  of  v.hom  are  Betsileo,  so  that  the 
Church  is  daily  becoming  more  and  more  the  Church  of 
the  people  and  the  province. 

The  Rev.  T.  Brockway,  who  has  charge  of  the  Ambositra 
district  in  the  Betsileo  province,  writes  : — 

*"  If  one  word  only  were  to  be  used  to  express  the  con- 
dition of  things  in  the  Betsileo,  with  which  the  missionaries 
are  concerned,  as  compared  with  that  which  existed  ten 
years  since,  that  word  must  be  contrast.  Those  w^ho  knew 
the  Betsileo  in  1^70,  their  lack  of  books,  their  ignorance  in 
regard  to  everything  out  of  and  beyond  the  circumstances 
in  which  they  were  living,  and  the  general  dirty  and  un- 
pleasant appearance  of  not  only  the  Betsileo  but  of  the 
Hova  resident  amongst  them,  must  feel  that  a  work  has 
been  done  for  which  we  can  only  give  God  thanks.  The 
absence  of  books  and  teaching  then,  as  well  as  the  in- 
different character  of  many  who  came  from  the  north  to 
settle  amongst  the  Betsileo,  or  trade  with  them,  some  of 
whom  were  (or  represented  themselves  to  be)  preachers 
and  teachers,  could  only  be  represented  as  darkness.  Now, 
although  there  is  much  lacking,  and  much  present  to  retard 
progress  and  cause  sorrow,  the  day  has  dawned,  and  is 
progressing  towards  a  full  light  which  may  precede  the 
perfect  day." ' 

The  Ten  Years'  Rcviciv  issued  in  1890  gives  particulars 
of  great  encouragement  in  a  work  exposed  to  very  many 
and  very  great  drawbacks  : — 

•There  are  at  present  connected  with  the  four  mission 
stations — Fianarantsoa,  Ambositra,  Ambohimandroso.  and 
Ambohinamboarina — 286  preaching  stations,  as  against 
156  in  1880,  besides  those  in  the  outlying  provinces,  to 
which  special  reference  will  be  made.  In  each  of  these 
stations,  in  addition  to  the  teaching  of  Scripture  to  the 
children  during  the  week,  religious   services  are  regularly 


76o  SPREAD  OF  CHRISTIANITY  BEYOND  IMERINA 

conducted  on  the  Lord's  Day,  mostly  by  the  school 
teachers,  pastors,  or  local  preachers,  and  sometimes  by  the 
missionary  or  trained  native  evangelist.  Preachers  from 
the  larger  centres  are  also  "planned"  to  preach  in  the 
villages  around,  some  even  travelling  very  long  distances ; 
so  that  altogether  the  Gospel  is  now  brought  within  the 
licaring  of  a  large  proportion  of  the  Betsileo. 

'  There  is  a  dark  side.  We  cannot  escape  the  fact  that, 
during  the  ten  years  under  review,  and  especially  in  recent 
years,  evil  in  many  ugly  forms  has  been  apparently  on 
the  increase : — rum-drinking,  social  impurity,  robber-raids, 
which  have  depopulated  whole  districts,  crushing  fanoin- 
poana  (forced  Government  labour),  as  well  as  social  and 
political  corruption  generally,  which  have  necessarily  in- 
terfered with  the  evangelization  of  the  people,  and  are  the 
cause  of  grave  anxiety  for  the  future. 

'  And  yet,  notwithstanding  all  this,  we  are  able  to  report 
a  substantial  advance,  both  as  regards  the  numerical  in- 
increase  of  Christian  converts  and  the  deepening  of  spiritual 
life  generally,  besides  a  great  deal  of  indirect  influence, 
manifest  enough  to  eye-witnesses,  but  difficult  to  tabulate. 
In  the  last  Review  the  number  of  communicants  reported 
was  3,119;  now  there  are  4,009  on  the  roll,  being  a  nett 
increase  of  890.  This,  however,  does  not  represent  the 
real  increase.  Ten  years  ago  the  existing  churches  in 
Iktsileo  were  in  a  most  unsatisfactory  state,  the  majority 
of  the  members  being  people  who  had  nominally  accepted 
Christianity  after  the  burning  of  the  national  idols,  but  who 
were  (with  a  few  exceptions)  still  heathen  in  heart  and  life, 
and  should  never  have  joined  the  Church  at  all.  When  the " 
excitement  had  worn  away  and  the  Gospel  fan  had  begun 
to  work,  many  relapsed  into  heathenism,  and  large  numbers 
were  expelled  for  unsatisfactory  conduct  ;  especially  for 
their  connection  with  the  liquor  traffic.  In  one  year  nearly 
ioo  were  expelled  for  this  reason  alone,  so  that,  roughly 
spcakmg,  over  one-halj  (in  one  district  about  tzvo-thirds)  of 
the  present  number  of  communicants  are  those  received 
(luring  the  decade,  with  a  few  from  Imerina  and  elsewhere. 


ANTSIHANAKA  761 

Still  more  gratifying  is  the  manifest  increase  in  knowledge 
and  spiritual  life,  and  the  striving  after  a  higher  Christian 
ideal  on  the  part  of  the  present  members.  Not  that  all  is 
satisfactory ;  on  the  contrary,  there  is  still  much  to  be 
desired.  Heathen  propensities  die  hard,  and  time  and 
again  our  most  hopeful  converts  are  caught  in  the  meshes 
of  temptation  ;  the  spiritual  life  of  many  is  still  little  more 
than  ''  smoking  flax  ;  "  and  yet,  as  compared  to  the  nominal 
Christians  of  ten  years  ago,  they  present  a  pleasing  contrast ; 
the  majority  being  able  at  least  to  read  their  Bibles, 
while  a  small  proportion  have  attained  a  comparatively 
high  Christian  experience,  and  are  really  efficient  workers.' 

2.  Antsihanaka  is  a  province  lying  six  days'  journey  to 
the  north  of  Antananarivo.  Mission-work  was  begun  there 
by  the  Rev.  J.  Pearse  in  1H75.  By  1880,  as  a  result  of  the 
labours  of  Mr.  Pearse  and  six  trained  native  evangelists  who 
had  been  sent  to  his  aid,  there  were  fifteen  congregations  with 
2,000  adherents,  of  whom  about  ten  per  cent,  could  read. 
There  were  also  eighteen  schools  with  about  1,200  scholars. 
Up  to  1880  only  twenty-four  adults  had  been  baptized, 
though  Mr.  Pearse  remarks  '  it  would  not  perhaps  have 
been  difficult  to  increase  the  number  tenfold,'  and  he  bears 
willing  testimony  to  the  great  services  rendered  by  young 
men  trained  in  the  college  at  Antananarivo  in  ^  this  com- 
paratively uneducated  and  unchristianized  province.'  On 
Mr.  Pearse's  removal  in  1881,  work  to  a  large  extent  ceased 
in  the  province  until  in  1887  Mr.  Stribling,  with  Mr.  Mackay 
as  medical  missionary,  resumed  the  superintendence  of  the 
mission.  These  outlying  missions  are  organized  as  far  as 
possible  upon  the  model  of  those  in  Imerina.  Good  work 
has  been  done  and  progress  attained.  Still  the  difficulties 
and  hindrances  are  greater  than  in  more  favoured  regions. 
The  Report  for  1890  draws  a  somewhat  dark  picture  : — 

'  In  relation  to  religion,  the  people  may  be  divided  into 
three  general  classes,  viz  :  the  majority  who  are  practically 
heathen  ;  the  few  professing  Christians  or  church  members  ; 
and  those  who  are  indifferent,  but  who  attend  the  Sunday 


762  SPREAD  OF  CHRISTIANITY  BEYOND  IMERINA 

morning  services  occasionally.  As  their  rulers  profess 
Christianity,  an  idea  prevails  among  some,  especially  those 
from  Imerina,  that  it  is  proper  to  go  to  church  once  a  day 
on  Sunday ;  and  some  again  would  advance  further  and 
persuade  us  to  receive  them  into  church  fellowship,  although 
altogether  unworthy.  But  the  fearful  prevalence  of  strong 
drink,  with  its  accompanying  evils,  lead  us  to  exercise 
a  vigorous  opposition  to  the  advance  of  such  professors. 
'  That  some  of  these  church  members  are  real  Christians 
there  is  no  doubt  ;  but  of  the  270  reported,  how  many  may 
be  called,  in  the  words  of  the  Apostle,  "  our  epistle,  written 
in  our  hearts,  known  and  read  of  all  men,"  it  would  be  hard 
to  say.  It  will  probably  be  noticed  that  the  somewhat  sad 
strain  in  which  our  predecessor  wrote  his  review  in  1  880 
pervades  ours  also  at  this  time.  We  know,  however,  that 
there  are  some  at  least,  if  but  few,  who  are  valuable 
witnesses  for  the  Lord  our  Master.  Surrounded  by  the 
most  deadening  influences  to  spiritual  life,  they  are  yet 
striving  to  live  as  becometh  the  saints.  Men  and  women 
of  heathen  parentage,  still  seriously  handicapped  by  evil 
customs,  such  as  slavery,  and  yet  endeavouring  to  live  the 
Gospel  of  Christ  in  holiness  of  life,  and  by  helping  to 
ameliorate  the  condition  of  their  poor  slaves,  these  are  they 
from  whom  we  may  take  courage.' 

3.  The  I1561NA  Mission,  on  the  north-west  coast,  in  and 
around  Mojanga,  was  taken  in  hand  by  Mr.  Pickersgill  in 
1877,  who  laboured  there  until  1882. 

4.  Work  in  the  Bi>tsimisaraka  District.  Two 
native  churches  had  been  formed  in  Tamatave  soon  after 
the  mission  was  reopened,  one  dating  from  1861.  In  accor- 
dance with  an  agreement  between  Mr.  Ellis  and  the  Bishop 
of  Mauritius  (Ryan)  the  Society  handed  over  Christian  work 
m  that  t(nvn  to  the  Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the 
(jospcl,  and  urged  its  own  church  members  to  join  that 
mission.  Though  these  natives,  not  unnaturally,  refused 
to  .separate  from  the  London  Missionary  Society,  yet  for 


BETSIMISARAKA   MISSION  763 

years  they  received  no  support  from  the  Society.  In  1S74 
the  intrusion  of  the  Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the 
Gospel  missionaries  into  Antananarivo  brought  this  working 
agreement  to  an  end.  From  1875  to  1881  the  two  churches 
were  actively  aided  by  the  London  Missionary  Society,  and 
in  the  latter  year  Mr.  G.  A.  Shaw  took  up  his  residence 
there  as  missionary  in  charge. 

Mission-work  in  Tamatave  itself  has  suffered  greatly,  first 
because  it  is  the  great  port  of  the  east  coast  and  suffers 
from  all  the  special  hindrances  to  Christian  work  which 
seem  inseparable  from  ports  in  heathen  lands  ;  and  in  the 
second  place  from  the  repeated  acts  of  French  aggression 
during  the  last  fifteen  years.  For  all  the  details  of  the 
bombardment  and  high-handed  imprisonment  of  Mr.  Shaw, 
we  must  refer  the  reader  to  his  book,  Aladagascar  and 
France  (1885).  The  difficulties  may  also  be  estimated  by 
the  fact  that  the  tract  of  country  of  which  Tamatave  is  the 
centre  is  about  400  miles  long  and  20  to  50  broad.  There 
are  seventy  or  eighty  native  churches  scattered  through 
it.  Under  all  the  inevitable  difficulties,  mission-work  was 
carried  on  in  Tamatave  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Moulder  until 
November,  1894,  when  'the  British  Consulate,  the  London 
Missionary  Society's  Mission  House,  Chapels,  and  other 
suitable  buildings  were  all  requisitioned  by  the  French 
commander  ^' 

Little  progress  has  been  made  in  the  Betsimisaraka 
district  for   reasons   which   the   missionaries   give  : — 

'  The  comparatively  few  pastors,  preachers,  and  com- 
municants afford  some  idea  of  the  state  of  the  congregations 
on  the  coast.  In  fully  one-half  there  are  no  persons  capable 
of  administering  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  and  con- 
ducting the  affairs  of  a  church.  The  places  in  which  they 
meet  are  but  preaching  stations.  What  teaching  the 
people  receive  is  usually  given  by  Hova  soldiers  anil 
traders  from  the  interior,  who  are  not  always  the  most 
consistent  of  characters.  Hence  the  Gospel  they  proclaim 
does  not   invariably  commend  itself  to  the  hearts  of  the 

*  Report,  1895,  p.  154. 


764  SPREAD  OF  CHRISTIANITY  BEYOND  IMERINA 

hearers,  and  has  little  chance  of  effecting  a  change  in  their 
lives.  The  vast  majority  of  Betsimisaraka  will  have  nothing 
to  do  \<^ith  Christianity.  They  regard  it  as  a  matter  that 
entirely  concerns  their  oppressors,  the  Hova,  and  their 
foreign  friends.  They  go  to  service  occasionally,  but,  as 
a  rule,  only  when  they  cannot  avoid  going,  or  are  not  able 
to  send  their  children  in  their  place.  The  marked  scarcity 
of  adults  in  some  of  the  small  congregations  to  which  we 
minister  is  quite  a  feature  of  church  life  in  the  lowlands, 
and  is  to  be  explained  partly  by  the  dense  ignorance  and 
superstition  in  which  they  are  embruted,  and  the  gross 
immorality  in  which  they  are  sunk  ;  but  principally,  we 
suspect,  by  the  unspeakable  political  and  social  system 
under  which  they  live.  Under  the  superintendence  of  the 
evangelists  at  Vatomandry,  Mahanoro,  Tamatave,  Maha- 
velona,  Fenoarivo,  and  Anonibe,  the  schools  have  made 
some  advance  during  the  last  ten  years,  although  we  are 
unable  to  gauge  it  accurately.  There  are  about  forty-three 
schools^  of  which,  however,  it  has  been  found  impossible  to 
examine  more  than  twenty-three.' 

Mission-work  was  begun  at  Farafangana,  on  the  south- 
east coast,  in  1^87,  and  has  been  continued  to  the  present 
(1X96),  though  hardly  more  than  a  base  from  which  to 
carry  on  future  operations  has  yet  been  secured.  The 
Revs.  G.  A.  Shaw,  C.  Collins,  and  E.  Pryce  Jones  have 
laboured  here. 


CHAPTER  XXXIV 

EDUCATION    AND   MEDICAL    MISSIONS 

We  must  now  pass  in  review  the  other  important  de- 
partments of  the  mission. 

I.  Education.  Amid  all  the  developments  of  the 
mission,  education  has  ever  been  kept  in  the  forefront. 
But  it  was  not  until  the  accession  of  Ranavalona  II  that 
it  was  possible  to  begin  the  important  educational  insti- 
tutions which  have  since  been  maintained.  The  most 
influential  are  carried  on  in  Antananarivo. 

I.  Of  these  the  chief  is  The  Collco^e.  This  institution 
was  begun  by  Mr.  Toy  and  Mr.  G.  Cousins  in  1H70,  and 
in  1874,  as  a  result  of  the  visit  of  Dr.  Mullens,  the  scope 
was  enlarged,  so  that  in  addition  to  training  evangelists 
and  pastors,  it  was  also  fitted  to  train  young  men  of  the 
upper  class  who  had  passed  through  the  elementary 
schools,  and  who  were  destined  for  important  Government 
posts.  The  permanent  building  on  the  site  finally  chosen 
at  Faravohitra  was  opened  in  1881. 

'  The  College  building  consists,  in  its  main  features,  of 
entrance-hall,  lecture-hall,  and  class-rooms  in  the  centre, 
and  of  two  houses  for  the  English  tutors,  forming  the 
wings,  at  the  northern  and  southern  extremities  respectively, 
one  at  either  end.  It  is  very  substantially  built  of  red 
brick  and  stone,  and  the  whole  block  forms  a  very  pro- 
minent object  in  every  view  of  the  city  from  the  cast  and 
north-east.  The  building  has  formed  a  centre  also  for 
much  of  the  religious  work  of  the  native  churches:  for 
meetings  of  various  kinds,  for  the  committees  of  the  Con- 


-ee        EDUCATION  AND  MEDICAL  MISSIONS 

oregational  Union,  of  the  Bible  Revision,  and  for  kindred 
work.     The  total  cost  was  about  ;^4,oco\' 

The  object  has  been  to  impart  not  only  Biblical  and 
theological  knowledge,  but  also  to  give  such  a  course  as 
would  train  the  minds  of  the  students  and  teach  them  to 
think.  Mr.  Toy  and  Mr.  Cousins  had  to  conduct  the 
classes,  and  also  for  the  most  part  prepare  the  textbooks 
used.  The  course  at  first  for  ministerial  students  was 
four  years,  but  in  1884  it  w^as  made  five.  In  the  lengthened 
course,  attention  during  the  last  year  is  devoted  to  hospital 
work  and  also  to  school  management.  For  non-ministerial 
students  the  course  is  three  years.  Students  of  special 
ability  are  allowed  a  fourth  year,  devoted  usually  to  mathe- 
matics and  physical  science. 

The  good  work  done  by  this  institution  may  be  gauged 
from  the  following  facts  : — 

'The  total  number  of  ministerial  students  received  since 
the  commencement  of  the  College  up  to  1890  (excluding 
those  who  proved  incompetent  or  untrustworthy)  is  196. 
Of  these  about  ninety  are  now  evangelists  (some  ie.vj^ 
pastors),  stationed  chiefly  in  the  central  provinces  of  Imerina 
and  Betsileo,  but  including  several  in  the  more  distant  and 
still  heathen  parts  of  the  island.  Of  the  rest,  many  of  them 
have  done  good  service,  but  have  retired  from  the  position 
of  evangelists,  some  from  failure  of  their  own  health,  and 
others  from  family  circumstances,  and  many  have  died. 
The  ministerial  students  now  under  instruction  number 
thirty-three.  The  number  of  secular  students  received  since 
the  year  1880  up  to  the  present  is  sixty-four,  of  whom 
sixteen  are  still  in  the  College.  Besides  these,  for  two 
years  (1884  and  1885),  the  junior  medical  students  from 
the  mif-sion  hospital  were  received  for  a  year's  teaching 
together  with  the  secular  students.  For  some  years  past 
the  total  number  of  students  under  instruction  has  averaged 
from  forty  to  fifty,  two-thirds  being  trained  for  the  ministry, 
and  one-third  for  secular  positions.' 

•  Soon  after  the  conquest  of  the  island  this  building  was  requisitioned  by 
the  French  with  only  moderate  compensation. 


COLLEGE,   AND   NORMAL   SCHOOL  767 

Mr.  Toy  was  succeeded  by  the  Rev^  J.  Peill,  who  resigned 
in  1 881.  He  in  turn  was  followed  by  the  Rev.  T.  Capsey, 
whose  wife  died  in  1883,  and  who  in  1885  returned  to 
I^ngland.  Mr.  Cousins  returned  to  England  in  1883,  after 
nineteen  years'  work  in  IVIadagascar,  and  fourteen  of  service 
to  the  college.  He  was  succeeded  by  the  Rev.  James 
Sibree,  with  whom  was  associated  the  Rev.  A.  Wilson,  B.  A. 
During  18.4  there  were  forty  students  attending  the 
classes. 

2.  The  Normal  School.  The  origin  of  this  institution, 
in  1862,  under  Mr.  Stagg,  has  been  noted  above.  For  some 
years  after  his  death,  in  1864,  it  was  carried  on  by  native 
teachers.  During  1867  and  1868  Mr.  Sewell,  of  the  Friends' 
Mission,  directed  the  work.  From  j  869  to  1872  Mr.  Barker 
was  at  its  head,  and  in  the  latter  year,  upon  Mr.  Barker's 
retirement,  it  passed  into  the  capable  hands  of  the  Rev.  J. 
Richardson,  by  whom  it  was  most  ablv  superintended  until 

1 897. 

The  school  was  designed  for  youths,  above  fifteen  }'ears 
of  age,  who  came  with  recommendations  from  their  church 
and  pastor,  and  also  the  approval  of  the  missionary  in 
charge  of  the  district.  If  able  to  pass  a  somewhat  searching 
entrance  examination  they  were  received  on  si.x  months' 
probation,  and  afterwards  for  a  three  years'  course  in  reading, 
writing,  composition,  arithmetic,  scripture,  grammar,  geo- 
graphy, school  management,  and  an  honours  course  in 
English  drawing,  first  book  of  Euclid,  and  elementary 
Algebra.  The  numbers  in  recent  years  have  varied  from 
100  to  304,  the  smaller  numbers  falling  in  the  years  troubled 
with  war  disturbances. 

The  building  in  which  the  school  was  carried  on  is  of  two 
stories,  with  five  rooms  on  the  first  floor,  and  one  largo 
room  on  the  second,  and  was  erected  in  1878  at  a  cost 
of  i^i;Oco.  The  grant  from  the  Society  for  the  work  of  the 
school  has  been  i^ioo  per  annum,  and  in  some  years  it  has 
been  worked  for  a  smaller  sum.  This  economy  in  working 
has  been  possible  because  in  their  last  year  many  of  the 
students  become  teachers  of  the  junior  classes.     In  the  ten 


768        EDUCATION  AND  MEDICAL  MISSIONS 

years,  1 880-1 890,  201  youths  passed  through  the  school, 
and  there  is  abundant  testimony  that  many  of  them  become 
the  hopeful  and  useful  workers  as  teachers  in  the  day 
schools  and  Sunday  schools,  and  also  as  native  preachers. 

In  1888  a  very  active  and  useful  infant  department  was 
initiated  with  great  success  to  carry  on  teaching  in  English, 
but  the  conquest  of  the  island  has  practically  put  an  end  to 
this  work  ^ 

3.  The  Palace  School.  This  institution,  so  called  because 
carried  on  in  one  of  the  rooms  of  the  palace,  was  begun  in 
1870  by  the  prime  minister,  for  the  education  of  his  own 
sons  and  of  the  sons  of  chief  Government  officials.  Mr.  Barker 
was  the  first  superintendent,  and  since  his  time  Messrs. 
Houlder,  Wills,  Grainge,  Lord,  and  Thorne  have  carried  it 
on.  They  have  been  responsible  for  the  teaching  only,  the 
admission  of  pupils  and  all  other  details  having  been  kept 
entirely  in  the  prime  minister's  hands.  '  There  has,  how- 
ever, never  been  any  difficulty  in  the  management  of  the 
school  arising  from  this  arrangement,  as  the  prime  minister 
has  always  supported  the  authority  of  the  missionary  in 
charge,  and  appears  to  have  done  his  best  to  help  him  in 
his  work  -.' 

The  number  of  scholars  has  been  nearly  uniform,  about 
sixty,  and  many  trained  there  have  done,  and  are  doing, 
valuable  service  as  Government  officers.  A  second  school, 
entirely  under  native  guidance,  was  opened  and  carried  on 
for  some  years,  but  in  1889  the  two  were  combined  and 
reorganized,  under  the  care  of  Mr.  Thorne.  During  1890 
the  average  attendance  was  176,  and  the  number  on  the 
register  232. 

4.  Girls'  Central  School.  This  was  begun  in  1872  by 
Mrs.  Richardson  and  Miss  Cameron.  It  was  first  held  in 
two  rooms  of  a  native  house  at  Andohalo,  where  so  many 
as  ninety  girls  were  taught.  In  J876  Miss  Bliss  was 
appointed  to  take  charge  of  the  school,  and  soon  after  her 
arrival  in  Antananarivo  a  rush  and  timber  building  was  put 

This  Imilding  was  also  requisitioned  by  the  French. 
^   Ten  Years'  Review,  1 870-1880,  p.  204. 


ELEMENTARY  EDUCATION  769 

up  at  Imarivolanitra,  near  the  printing  office.  In  October, 
1878,  the  school  migrated  to  rooms  at  Andohalo,  vacated 
by  the  Normal  School,  which  had  removed  to  Faravohitra. 
In  1876  there  were  78  on  the  books,  and  an  average 
attendance  of  60 ;  in  1880  the  numbers  were  152  and  130  ; 
and  in  1894  the  average  was  216. 

During  1884  to  1890  Miss  Craven  was  associated  with 
Miss  Bhss  in  the  work.  They  were  aided  by  two  Mala- 
gasy men  and  eight  women  teachers.  Subsequently,  on 
Miss  Bliss's  retirement,  Miss  Sibree  and  Miss  Briggs  have 
assisted  Miss  Craven.  Many  Malagasy  girls  marry  at 
twelve  or  thirteen  years  of  age,  and  very  few  continue  at 
the  school  after  their  marriage.  The  great  hindrances  to 
this  work  have  been  early  marriages,  the  indifference  of 
parents  to  the  moral  and  mental  welfare  of  their  children, 
to  heathen  customs  leading  to  immorality,  and  the  increase 
of  drinking  habits. 

Institutions  similar  to  those  just  described  have  also  been 
instituted  in  Betsileo  at  Fianarantsoa. 

5.  Elementary  Education  in  Madagascar  has  received  much 
attention  from  the  missionaries,  and  has  made  fairly  satis- 
factory progress  in  Imerina  and  Betsileo,  but  very  little 
has  yet  been  accomplished  elsewhere.  Although  the 
Lutherans,  the  Romanists,  and  the  Society  for  the  Pro- 
pagation of  the  Gospel  all  have  schools,  the  great  bulk 
of  what  educational  work  has  been  done  is  the  outcome  of 
the  London  and  of  the  Friends'  Missions.  From  the  first 
the  missionaries  have  striven  to  secure  the  co-operation 
of  the  natives,  and  to  lead  them  to  support  the  schools. 
By  1872  there  were  490  schools  in  Imerina.  As  the  result 
of  a  conference  in  1874,  the  Directors  placed  larger  funds 
for  educational  work  at  the  disposal  of  the  conference,  and 
the  schools  were  rearranged  into  four  classes,  to  which 
varying  grants  were  given  according  to  the  quality  of  the 
staff  and  of  the  instruction  given. 

'  During  the  year  1884  a  system  of  examination  for 
teachers'  certificates  was  introduced  by  the  Committee. 
All  teachers  then  in  charge  of  schools  connected  with  our 

I.  3D 


770         EDUCATION  AND  MEDICAL  MISSIONS 

mission  were  required  to  present  themselves  for  examina- 
tion, and  certificates  were  issued  to  the  successful  examinees 
according  to  the  attainments  they  had  shown.  By  this 
means  a  good  idea  was  obtained  of  the  qualifications  and 
general  character  of  the  teachers  ;  and  as  the  Committee 
decided  that  no  teacher  who  had  failed  to  secure  a  certificate 
should  receive  help  from  the  education  grants,  a  number  of 
incompetent  teachers  were  got  rid  of.  These  examinations 
for  teachers'  certificates  had  been  held  yearly  since  they 
were  first  instituted,  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  they 
have  proved  very  useful  in  various  ways. 

'  During  recent  years  there  has  been  shown  by  the  parents 
a  greater  willingness  to  send  their  children  to  school  at  an 
earlier  age  than  formerly ;  at  the  same  time,  however,  they 
are  removed  at  an  earlier  age.  Still  it  is  a  great  advantage 
to  get  hold  of  the  children  while  of  tender  years,  as  the 
labour  expended  upon  them  gives  higher  and  more  gratify- 
ing results  than  the  same  labour  bestowed  upon  older 
children  coming  fresh  to  school  would  produce.  The 
immense  majority  of  the  children  in  our  schools  now  are 
bona  fide  scholars,  and  not,  as  was  often  formerly  the  case, 
big  boys  and  girls  whose  attendance  was  very  irregular  and 
intermittent,  and  who  were  too  old  and  too  much  occupied 
to  receive  much  benefit  from  the  school  instruction. 

'  The  experience  of  the  past  ten  years  has  shown  more 
clearly  than  ever  that  educational  work  could  not  be  carried 
on  apart  from  the  Missionary  Societies.  Were  the  grants- 
in-aid  for  educational  purposes  made  by  the  various 
societies,  and  the  supervision  of  European  missionaries 
withdrawn,  it  is  not  too  much  to  say  that  the  school 
system  at  present  existing  would  entirely  collapse.  Neither 
the  Government  nor  the  churches  have  the  requisite 
resources,  material  and  moral,  to  enable  them  to  maintain 
even  the  most  elementary  school  system  in  operation. 
Hitherto  the  beneficial  action  of  the  Government  in  relation 
to  the  schools  has  been  confined  to  t;he  exertion  of  a  modified 
and  mtcrmittent  pressure  on  the  parents  to  send  their 
children    to   school,   and    to   a    general   countenance    and 


MEDICAL  MISSIONS  771 

encouragement  of  educational  work.  The  Government  has 
borne  no  part  in  supplying  the  necessary  funds  for  meeting 
the  expenses  of  teachers'  salaries,  apparatus,  &c.  ;  the 
money  for  these  purposes  has  been  supplied  by  the 
Missionary  Societies  conjointly  with  the  churches  in  con- 
nection with  them.  Perhaps  we  may  say  that,  considering 
the  political  institutions  of  the  country  and  the  methods  of 
government  in  vogue,  it  would  have  been  very  difficult, 
if  not  impossible,  for  the  State  to  have  established  and 
maintained  a  school  system  of  its  own  with  even  fair 
efficiency  and  success.  And  certainly  the  churches  by 
themselves  would  be  unequal  to  the  task  of  carrying  on 
school  work.  The  missionaries  of  the  London  Missionary 
Society  firmly  insist  upon  the  churches  bearing  a  share  in 
the  expenses  of  the  schools  ;  and  it  is  encouraging  to  find 
that  some  of  the  churches  manifest  considerable  readiness 
and  willingness  to  contribute  for  this  purpose.  Still  if  the 
pressure  brought  to  bear  by  the  missionaries  upon  the 
churches  were  to  cease,  their  contributions  would  soon  faiP.' 
A  system  of  annual  examination  of  the  schools  has  been 
in  operation  for  many  years,  and  in  1894,  712  schools  were 
examined,  and  27,003  scholars.  Of  these,  13,087  possessed 
slates,  14,348  had  Bibles.  In  reading,  12,459  passed;  in 
writing,  8,413  ;  in  arithmetic,  6,374. 

II.  Medical  Mission  Work.  The  needs  of  this 
important  field  of  service  have  been  kept  well  in  view 
in  Madagascar.  Medical  mission-work  was  begun  in 
Antananarivo  by  Dr.  Davidson,  when  on  the  staff  of 
the  London  Missionary  Society.  He  opened  a  hospital 
at  Anaiakely,  and  for  several  years  did  most  useful 
and  successful  work.  In  1867  the  superintendence  of  this 
department  was  handed  over  to  Dr.  Burns  Thompson,  of 
Edinburgh,  who  found  a  large  part  of  the  funds  needful 
to  carry  it  on.  In  1876  Dr.  Thompson  withdrew  his  sup- 
port. Dr.  Davidson  left  the  island,  and  for  a  time  the 
hospital  had  to  be  closed.     Contrary  to  all  expectation  at 

'    'J't-n  Years'  Review,  1880-1890,.  p.  64  ct  scq. 
3  D2 


772         EDUCATION  AND  MEDICAL  MISSIONS 

the  time  this  interregnum  in  the  end  lasted  four  years, 
until  1880,  when  Dr.  Tregelles  Fox,  who  went  out  under 
the  auspices  of  the  Friends'  Mission,  reopened  the  hospital 
for  out-patients.  A  joint  committee,  representing  both 
the  London  and  the  Friends'  Societies,  undertook  to  manage 
its  affairs.  Dr.  Davidson's  work  had  done  much  to  remove 
native  prejudice,  and  he  had  also  trained  some  fairly  com- 
petent native  assistants.  In  ]88i  Miss  Graham  undertook 
the  superintendence  of  the  nurses,  and  the  hospital  was 
reopened  for  in-patients.  Dr.  Fox  suffered  much  from 
ill  health,  and  received  valuable  assistance  from  time  to 
time  from  Mr.  W.  Wilson,  of  the  Friends'  Mission.  In 
1885  Dr.  Allen  arrived,  and  Dr.  Fox  gave  himself  to  the 
preparation  of  medical  textbooks,  and  to  the  establish- 
ment of  medical  and  midwifery  schools  in  connection  with 
the  hospital.  The  Medical  Missionary  Training  Academy 
was  the  outcome  of  deliberations  between  Drs.  Fox  and 
Allen,  with  Drs.  Borchgrevinck  and  Guldberg,  of  the  Nor- 
wegian Society,  and  was  sanctioned  by  the  three  Societies 
concerned  and  opened  in  1886.  In  July,  1887,  Drs.  Fox 
and  Allen  left  Madagascar,  and  for  a  year  the  hospital  was 
under  the  care  of  a  Malagasy,  Dr.  Ralarosy.  In  January, 
1889,  Dr.  Fenn  took  charge,  finding  the  senior  students 
competent  to  render  him  much  assistance.  In  August, 
1889,  Dr.  C.  F.  A.  Moss  arrived.  In  1891  the  large  new 
hospital  was  opened  by  the  queen.  It  cost  ;^5,ooo,  and  a 
week  after  the  opening  there  was  a  collection  at  the  Palace 
Church  first,  to  v/hich  the  queen  gave  ;^2oo,  the  prime 
minister  £60,  and  the  congregation  ;^8o.  From  the  time 
it  was  opened  this  hospital  proved  a  blessing  to  a  large  and 
increasing  number  of  patients.  The  Medical  Mission  is 
not  a  regular  part  of  the  Society's  work.  It  belonged  to 
the  Friends'  Mission,  the  London  Missionary  Society  con- 
tributing annually  a  sum  not  exceeding  ;^5oo  towards  the 
expenses.  During  1894,  6,373  out-patients  and  904  in- 
patients were  treated  ^ 

Medical  mission-work  has  been  carried  on  as  effectively 

'  The  hospital  was  also  requisitioned  by  the  French. 


LEPERS'  MISSION  AT  ISOAVINA  773 

as  the  limited  staffs  would  permit  in  both  the  Betsileo  and 
the  Antsihanaka  Missions,  having  been  under  the  charge 
during  recent  years  at  Fianarantsoa,  first  by  the  Rev. 
J.  Pearse  and  then  by  Dr.  Peake. 

A  special  form  of  medical  mission  has  been  carried  on  in 
Isoavina.  since  1892,  by  the  Rev.  P.  G.  Peake.  Leprosy 
is  very  common  in  Madagascar,  and  an  appeal  by  Mr.  Peake 
to  friends  in  England  has  enabled  him  to  open  a  leper 
settlement,  which  during  1894  gave  a  home  to  thirty  out- 
cast lepers. 


CHAPTER    XXXV 

CHRISTIAN   LITERATURE   IN    MADAGASCAR 

Christian  literature  is  both  the  handmaid  and  the  con- 
sequence of  Christian  missions.  In  Madagascar  a  body 
of  publications,  not  unworthy  of  the  name  of  a  Christian 
literature,  has  been  one  of  the  chief  results  of  mission  toil 
there. 

I.  The  Translation  and  Revision  of  the  Bible.  The 
history  of  the  original  translation  of  the  Scriptures  into 
Malagasy  has  already  been  traced '.  The  Rev.  David 
Griffiths,  assisted  by  the  Rev.  J.  J.  Freeman  until  the 
death  of  the  latter,  began  in  England  about  1852  to  revise 
the  Malagasy  Bible.  There  was  at  that  period  some  expec- 
tation that  the  island  might  soon  be  open  again  to  Chris- 
tianity. Mr.  Griffiths  was  assisted  by  the  Rev.  T.  W. 
Meller,  M.A.,  Editorial  Superintendent  of  the  Bible  Society, 
and  both  gentlemen  bestowed  much  labour  upon  the  work. 
But  although  Mr.  Griffiths  knew  the  language  well,  and  had 
resided  in  the  island  nineteen  years,  ten  or  twelve  years 
had  passed  since  he  left  it.  This  revision  was  completed 
(New  Testament  in  1855,  Old  Testament  in  1865),  and  the 
result  was,  in  the  opinion  of  a  most  competent  judge,  the 
Rev.  VV.  E.  Cousins,  *  it  could  never  be  considered  a 
standard  version.  Its  style  is  too  often  stiff  and  unidio- 
matic ;  some  words  appear  to  have  been  invented  by  the 
reviser :  some  of  the  smaller  words  were  persistently  mis- 

'  See  Chapter  XXVIII. 


REVISIOX  OF  MALAGASY  BIBLE  775 

used  throughout ;  and  in  many  instances  the  order  of  the 
words  is  extremely  ill  chosen.'  The  New  Testament  of 
this  revision,  slightly  revised  (May,  1866 — September,  1868), 
was  printed  as  a  stop-gap  edition  in  1870  ;  and  in  1872 
a  complete  Bible  of  small  size,  consisting  of  the  1870  New 
Testament,  with  a  reprint  of  the  1835  text  of  the  Old 
Testament,  '  with  the  orthography  modernized  by  Mr.  Toy.' 

The  revision  of  the  Malagasy  Bible  was  a  matter  of  great 
literary  moment,  a  work  fraught  with  incalculable  influence, 
and  a  tribute  to  high  efficiency  in  a  most  important  depart- 
ment of  missionary  labour.  Hence  it  deserves  more  than 
a  passing  mention.  The  chief  reviser  and  guiding  spirit  of 
the  great  enterprise,  the  Rev.  W.  E.  Cousins,  has  enabled 
us  to  follow  the  twelve  years'  history  of  the  great  under- 
taking.     In  1886  he  wrote  the  following  account  of  it : — 

'In  the  early  part  of  the  year  i<S72  it  happened  that 
there  were  present  in  Antananarivo  representatives  of  all 
Protestant  societies  having  agencies  in  Madagascar,  and 
the  need  of  some  united  action  was  felt.  The  Bible  would 
be  used  in  all  these  missions  alike,  and  naturally  all  felt 
a  desire  to  see  the  work  of  revision  undertaken  by  a  board 
that  would  fully  and  fairly  represent  the  different  interests 
involved.  A  conference  was  held  on  April  3,  1872,  and,  as 
a  result  of  its  deliberations,  a  formal  application  was  made 
to  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society  to  grant  its 
sanction  and  help  to  the  important  work  contemplated. 
The  main  features  of  the  plan  suggested  to  the  Bible 
Society  were:  (i)  the  appointment  of  the  present  writer 
to  the  post  of  •'  Principal  Reviser,"  to  prepare  a  preliminary 
version,  to  preside  at  the  meetings  of  the  Board,  and  to 
superintend  the  printing  of  the  committee's  version  ;  (2)  the 
appointment  of  a  representative  committee  composed  of 
missionaries  of  all  the  Protestant  societies  in  the  lollowing 
proportions :  the  London  Missionary  Society,  three ;  the 
Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel,  one  ;  the  Church 
Missionary  Society,  one;  the  Norwegian  Missionary  Society, 
two  ;  the  Friends'  P^oreign  Mission  Association,  one.  The 
British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society  promptly  and  generously 


776   CHRISTIAN  LITERATURE  IN  MADAGASCAR 

aoreed  to  this  joint  proposal,  and  undertook  the  whole 
pecuniary  responsibih'ty  involved — that  is  to  say:  (i)  the 
payment  of  the  salary  of  the  principal  reviser ;  (2)  the 
travelling  expenses  of  the  delegates ;  (3)  the  cost  of 
native  assistance  ;  (4)  the  purchase  of  critical  books  and 
stationery ;  and  (5)  the  printing  of  the  proofs. 

'A  preliminary  meeting  was  held  on  July  24,  1873,  at 
the  house  of  Mr.  W.  Johnson,  of  the  F.  F.  M.  A.,  who  had 
acted  as  secretaiy  to  the  conference.  At  this  meeting 
several  preliminary  questions  were  discussed,  and  it  was 
resolved  that,  instead  of  entering  at  once  upon  the  general 
work,  a  tentative  revision  of  a  few  selected  chapters  (viz. 
Gen.  i-iv  ;  Ex.  i,  ii,  xx ;  Psa.  i-v ;  Matt,  v-vii)  should  be 
made  by  the  principal  reviser,  and  that  a  session  should 
be  held  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  these  portions  and  of 
ascertaining  more  in  detail  than  could  be  done  in  general 
conversation  how  far  the  delegates  were  united  in  judg- 
ment as  to  the  extent  and  character  of  the  changes  required. 
This  first  session  was  held  in  December,  1873.  Daily 
sittings  of  five  or  six  hours  were  held  for  about  three  weeks, 
and  the  following  portions  were  revised :  Gen.  i-iii  ;  Ex. 
xx.  1-17;  Psa.  i,  iii ;  Matt.  v.  1-22,  vi.  9-13  (in  all  142 
verses,  or  on  an  average  about  twelve  verses  per  day).  At 
these  sessions  there  were  present :  Dr.  Mullens,  Rev.  J. 
Pillans,  visitors ;  Rev.  W.  E.  Cousins,  Principal  Reviser  ; 
Revs.  R.  Toy,  G.  Cousins,  and  J.  Sibree ;  Revs.  L.  Dahle 
and  M.  Borgen  ;  Mr.  J.  S.  Sewell ;  Rainimanga,  Andria- 
naivoravelona,  Andriambelo,  Native  Helpers. 

'  This  work  of  preliminary  revision  stretched  over  eleven 
years.  It  did  not,  however,  take  the  whole  of  this  time; 
but,  deducting  my  absence  on  furlough,  I  think  about  eight 
>'ears  was  the  time  actually  spent  on  it.  This  tentative 
version  was  prepared  in  a  series  of  ''  Principal  Reviser's 
Proofs."  These  proofs  were  octavo  in  size,  printed  in  clear 
type,  with  a  wide  margin  for  notes.  Most  of  them  contained 
eight  pages,  but  a  few  extended  to  ten  or  twelve. 

*  My  plan  of  working  in  preparing  these  proofs  was  to 
take  a  page  of  the  Malagasy  Bible,  pasted  on  a  sheet  of 


HOH^  THE   WORK  WAS  DONE  777 

paper  for  notes,  and  compare  this  word  for  word  with  the 
original,  using  the  best  critical  aids  in  my  possession,  and 
endeavouring,  in  the  first  instance,  to  make  the  translation 
as  literal  as  possible.  Every  point  that  appeared  doubtful 
I  marked  with  a  (?},  and,  at  the  end  of  the  week,  I  went 
through  these  doubtful  passages  with  my  native  helper, 
Ralaiarivony.  At  the  beginning,  I  had  two  natives 
to  help  me  in  this  kind  of  work — viz.  Ralaiarivony  and 
Andriamamanga.  Both  of  these  belonged  to  the  caste 
of  andriana  (or  nobles).  They  had  not  enjoyed  any 
special  training,  but  were  men  of  good  general  ability, 
and  very  correct  taste  in  matters  affecting  their  own 
language ;  and  as  I  wanted  help  chiefly  in  questions  of 
idiom  and  taste,  I  do  not  think  I  could  have  made  a  better 
choice.  During  my  absence  in  England  Andriamamanga 
died,  but  Ralaiarivony  has  continued  to  work  with  me 
week  by  week  to  the  end,  and  great  praise  is  due  to  him 
for  his  patient  care  and  good  taste. 

*  The  work  of  the  committee  has  been  from  these 
preliminary  proofs  to  build  up  what  we  earnestly  hope 
will  become  a  "standard  version,"  which  shall  be  received 
with  confidence  by  all  Protestants  in  Madagascar,  and 
round  which,  as  the  years  pass,  shall  gather  sacred 
a.ssociations  and  loving  reverence.  At  first  the  committee 
held  continuous  sessions  of  several  weeks  each  twice  a  year. 
At  the  close  of  the  third  session,  instead  of  holding  sessions 
of  several  weeks'  duration,  the  committee  agreed  to  sit  one 
day  per  week,  with  an  occasional  session  of  a  week  or 
a  fortnight,  when  arrears  should  render  this  necessary. 
Our  plan  was  to  meet  at  8.30  a.m.,  and  work  three  hours 
in  the  morning  and  three  in  the  afternoon.  The  day's 
meeting  was  opened  by  a  brief  prayer,  and  we  then 
proceeded  to  revise  the  portion  for  consideration  verse 
by  verse.  We  had  with  us  usually  three  native  helpers. 
The  committee  sat  on  433  days,  and  held  in  all  771 
sittings,  chiefly  of  three  hours  each. 

*The  Rev.  L.  Dahle,  of  the  Norwegian  Mission,  has 
been   able   to   render   the  committee    most  valuable  help, 


778   CHRISTIAN  LITERATURE  IN  MADAGASCAR 

especially  from  his  full  and  exact  knowledge  of   Hebrew 
and    the    cognate   languages.     But    every  member  of   the 
committee  has  in  his  own  order  contributed  to  the  final 
result,  and  the  actual  language  employed  is  not  the  choice 
of  any  individual,  but  is  the  result  of  combined  thought 
and  discussion.    Many  of  the  happiest  and  most  apt  phrases 
the  version  contains  have  sprung  unexpectedly  to  light  in 
the  midst  of  our  discussions,  and  have  at  once  commended 
themselves  to  our  judgment.     As  a  rule,  the  wishes  of  the 
native  helpers  (within  certain  well-defined  limits,  which  as 
faithful  translators  we  felt  bound  to  maintain)  have  been 
followed  as  to  the  actual  form  of  the  sentences,  and  even 
as  to  the  choice  of  words ;  and  hundreds  of  small  changes 
have  been  made,  which  no  foreigner  would  have  thought 
necessary,  and  of  which  few  would  see  the  reason,  purely 
out  of  deference  to  native   opinion.     We    ourselves  have 
learned  much,  especially  as  to  the  possibility  of  misunder- 
standing phrases  that  seemed  to  us  quite  clear,  and  as  to 
undesirable   associations   lurking   in  unsuspected  quarters. 
We  have  again  and  again  been  taught  the  danger  of  undue 
literalism,  and  have  found  what  numberless  pitfalls  lie  in 
the  path  of  one  who  is  dealing  with  a  language  not  his  own. 
Certainly  a  greater  humility  in  estimating  our  own  pro- 
ficiency in  the  language  should  be  one  of  the  fruits  of  our 
long-continued  work.     No   amount  of  familiarity  with   it 
seems  to  give  us  quite  the  instinct  and  taste  of  a  native  ; 
and  we  have  been  saved  from  many  an  ambiguity  and  from 
not   a   few  absurdities    by  the  keener  perceptions  of  our 
native  co-workers. 

•On  Wednesday,  October  28,  1885,  in  the  committee- 
room  of  the  London  Missionary  Society,  which  forms  part 
of  the  great  block  of  college  buildings  that  are  now  such  a 
conspicuous  object  on  the  Faravohitra  hill,  in  Antananarivo, 
there  were  seated  round  a  long  office  table  seven  European 
missionaries  and  two  native  pastors.  At  the  head  of  the 
table  is  seated  the  chairman,  the  Rev.  W.  E.  Cousins ;  on 
his  right  arc  the  Rev.  L.  Dahle,'  superintendent  of  the 
Norwegian    Mission,    Mr.    H.    E.    Clark,    of    the    Friends' 


THE  FINAL    COMMITTEE   MEETING  779 

Mission,  and  the  Rev.  T.  T.  Matthews,  of  the  London 
Mission ;  on  his  left  are  seated  the  Revs.  W.  Montgomery 
and  R.  Baron,  F.L.S.,  of  the  London  Mission,  and  Bishop 
Kestell-Cornish,  of  the  AngHcan  Mission ;  opposite  the 
chairman  are  seated  Joseph  Andrianaivoravelona  and 
Andrianony,  both  of  them  college-trained  men  of  good 
ability  and  large  experience.  On  the  table  are  scattered 
books  and  papers,  such  as  Polyglot  Bibles,  concordances, 
dictionaries,  commentaries,  and  printers'  proofs.  The 
committee  met  at  half-past  eight,  and  after  a  short  prayer 
for  help  began  its  morning's  work — viz.  the  Book  of 
Malachi.  The  work  has  gone  on  steadily  for  nearly  four 
hours,  and  now  the  solemn  and  awe-inspiring  words  that 
form  the  last  paragraph  of  the  Old  Testament  are  reached, 
and  the  first  revision  of  the  Malagasy  Bible  is  complete. 
Books  are  closed  with  a  sigh  of  relief,  and  all  faces  are 
brightened  by  the  consciousness  that  a  great  work  has 
been  accomplished.' 

During  1886  the  version  was  once  again  revised  by 
Mr.  Cousins  and  his  two  native  helpers,  in  conjunction  with 
the  other  revisers.  Mr.  Cousins  spent  the  year  1887  in 
England,  seeing  the  book  through  the  press.  In  1888 
a  small-sized  New  Testament  was  printed,  the  first  consign- 
ment reaching  Antananarivo  in  October.  Early  in  1889 
the  complete  Bible  was  finished,  and  the  first  jco  copies 
reached  the  capital  in  August : — 

'  The  new  version  is  a  thick  volume  of  \  642  demy  8vo 
pages,  and  is  therefore  unavoidably  a  rather  heavy  and 
cumbrous  book ;  but  the  printing  in  long  primer  type  is 
beautifully  clear,  well-spaced,  and  pleasant  to  read  ;  and 
a  slight  comparison  of  a  few  passages  from  this  revision 
with  the  same  verses  from  the  earlier  editions  will  show  at 
once  how  very  greatly  superior  it  is  to  its  predecessors  in 
clear  and  idiomatic  Malagasy.  Hundreds  of  passages 
which  were  formerly  obscure — now  and  then  almost  mean- 
ingless— have  become  full  of  life  and  interest  ;  and  what 
was  intelligible  before  has,  in  very  many  instances,  become 
vivid  and  graphic' 


-8o   CHRISTIAN  LITERATURE  IN  MADAGASCAR 


'  The  editorial  superintendent  of  the  Bible  Society,  at 
the  beginning  of  the  work,  expressed  the  wish  :  "  That  no 
difference  of  opinion  or  policy  in  other  matters  may  hinder 
the  harmonious  proceeding  of  the  present  work.  It  is  hard 
indeed  for  men  to  co-operate  when  they  feel  that  there  is 
a  material  difference  between  them  ;  but  this  Bible  revision 
is  a  blessed  opportunity  for  exhibiting  to  the  island  the 
unity  of  faith  in  the  Scriptures  as  the  authoritative 
declaration  of  God's  will."  I  may  be  allowed  to  quote 
here  a  few  words  from  Bishop  Kestell-Cornish's  letter, 
in  which  he  informed  me  that  he  was  about  to  leave 
the  island,  and  could  no  longer  join  with  us  in  the  work. 
He  says :  "I  confess  I  entered  upon  the  office  of  reviser 
with  some  slight  apprehensions,  but  I  leave  it  with  great 
regret.  I  think  it  may  be  said  without  irreverence  that 
our  work  together  has  illustrated  the  truth  of  the 
evangelical  promise,  that  by  T/ie  Voice  the  valleys  shall 
be  exalted,  the  hills  brought  low,  the  crooked  made 
straight,  and  the  rough  places  plain.  And  can  we  doubt 
that  the  result  of  our  work,  in  which,  however,  I  have 
borne  the  humblest  share,  will  be  a  wider  revelation  of  the 
glory  of  the  Lord?"  ' 

2.  Christia7i  Literature gejier ally.  The  influence  exerted 
by  David  Johns'  translation  of  the  first  part  of  the  Pilgrinis 
Progress  during  the  persecution  has  already  been  described^. 
The  printing  press,  which  did  such  good  service  prior  to 
1837,  was  re-established  in  a  more  powerful  form  in  1862, 
and  enlarged  again  in  1876.  The  activity  in  this  depart- 
ment is  measured  by  the  fact  that  between  1870  and  1880 
no  less  than  1,500,000  copies  of  various  publications  were 
issued.  The  Friends'  Mission  in  1872  also  started  a  press, 
from  which  a  very  large  number  of  educational  and  other 
books  were  issued.  The  Norwegian,  Romanist,  and  the 
Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel  Missions  have 
also  set  up  presses,  but  the  work  in  each  of  these  cases  has 
been  very  limited  compared  with  the  other  presses,  and  but 
few  books  of  general  interest  have  yet  proceeded  from  them. 

^  See  p.  696. 


GENERAL   CHRISTIAN  LITERATURE  781 

The  mere  enumeration  of  the  publications  actually  issued  or 
in  progress  at  the  London  Mission  Press  during  the  decade 
1870-1879  occupies  nine  closely- printed  pages.  The 
literature  issued  from  this  press  includes — 

(i)  Periodicals.  The  best  of  these  is  Te7iy  Sou  (Good 
Words),  a  magazine  begun  in  1866,  and  issued  every  two 
months  from  1866  to  1869,  but  since  the  beginning  of  1870 
as  a  monthly.  A  quarterly  magazine^  Mpanolo-tsaina 
(Counsellor,  or  Thought-giver),  was  commenced  in  May, 
1877,  discontinued  in  1880,  and  recommenced  in  1888. 
A  quarterly  '  Children's  Portion '  has  also  been  issued  in 
connection  w^ith  the  Madagascar  branch  of  the  Children's 
Scripture  Union  since  1883. 

(2)  Books.  These  include  commentaries,  specially  suited 
to  aid  native  pastors,  preachers,  and  evangelists  ;  courses  of 
Theology  and  Church  History ;  a  Bible  Dictionary  of  900 
pages,  completed  in  1888;  several  editions  of  the  Mala- 
gasy hymn-book ;  an  illustrated  edition  of  the  first  part, 
and  an  entirely  new  translation  of  the  second  part  of  the 
Pilg7'im's  Progress ;  a  new  Malagasy  English  Dictionary, 
832  and  lix  pages;  and  \}i\^ Antafianarivo  An?i?/al, he^un  in 
1 881  and  issued  every  Christmas.  This  is  in  English,  and 
deals  with  the  topography,  history,  and  natural  products  of 
the  island,  also  with  its  customs,  traditions,  language,  folk- 
lore, and  religious  beliefs.  Large  numbers  of  school-books 
have  been  printed  and  circulated,  including  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  the  First  Lcssoii-Book. 

Details  of  this  most  valuable  part  of  mission-work  are 
given  in  both  volumes  of  the  Ten  Years  Reviciv.  Full 
acknowledgement  is  also  made  of  the  generous  help  of  the 
Religious  Tract  Society,  without  whose  assistance  large 
portions  of  this  work  could  not  have  been  undertaken.  No 
less  than  ninety-three  of  the  long  list  of  publications  issued 
between  1870  and  1879  were  printed  on  paper  given  by  the 
Tract  Society,  and  sent  out  free  of  charge  to  IMadagascar. 
The  last  Ten  Years  Reviciu  (1890)  states  :  '  Our  thanks  arc 
again  due  to  the  committee  of  the  Religious  Tract  Society 
for  repeated  grants  of  paper,  and  also  for  casts  for  book 


782    CHRISTIAN  LITERATURE  IN  MADAGASCAR 

illustration  ;  through  the  first  of  these  about  130,000  tracts 
have  been  put  into  circulation,  and  to  both  gifts  our 
periodicals  are  greatly  indebted,  enabling  us  to  print  them 
at  a  cheaper  rate,  besides  making  them  much  more  interest- 
inc:  to  our  readers.' 

A  beginning  has  been  made  in  providing  the  Malagasy 
with  literature,  and  yet  only  a  good  beginning  has  been 
made.  There  is  much  yet  to  be  done  in  the  way  of  creating 
in  the  natives  a  taste  for  helpful  literature,  and  in  providing 
a  Christian  literature  written  in  accordance  with  Malagasy 
modes  of  thought.  In  the  last  official  review  of  the  mission 
these  statements  are  found  : — 

*  A  taste  for  reading  and  a  willingness  to  spend  money 
in  the  purchase  of  books  is  still  confined  to  a  small  section 
of  the  population,  even  of  the  professedly  Christian  and 
more  enlightened  portion  of  it  ;  and  it  is  discouraging  to 
find  that  numbers  of  pastors  and  preachers  will  never  pur- 
chase one  of  the  numerous  commentaries  or  other  helps  to 
the  understanding  of  the  Scriptures  which  have  been 
prepared  specially  for  their  instruction,  and  that  many 
grudge  even  the  outlay  of  a  few  pence  for  the  periodicals 
which  are  issued  monthly  expressly  for  their  benefit. 
Possibly  we  need  greater  variety  and  attractiveness,  and 
a  larger  employment  of  illustrations,  in  our  literature  ;  and 
we  certainly  do  need  that  a  larger  proportion  of  our  number 
should  make  writing  for  the  press  a  regular  part  of  their 
work,  instead  of  leaving  it  to  a  comparatively  small  section 
of  their  brethren,  upon  whom  it  often  falls  very  heavily  and 
somewhat  unfairly.' 

'  It  is  true  that  occasionally  we  find  a  real  love  of  books 
and  an  anxiety  to  obtain  immediately  the  latest  production 
of  our  mission  presses;  but  we  believe  that  all  who  know 
the  Malagasy  will  endorse  the  statement  that  a  love  of 
reading  and  of  books  is  still  rare  among  them,  and  will  agree 
that  a  great  deal  has  yet  to  be  done  to  awaken  a  more 
earnest  desire  for  enlightenment  and  information  on  all 
subjects.' 


CHAPTER  XXXVI 

RELATIONS   WITH    OTHER  SOCIETIES 

Ix  far  too  brief  a  manner  for  the  magnitude  and  im- 
portance of  the  subject,  we  have  attempted  to  deal  with 
the  history  and  development  of  Christianity  in  Madagascar. 
One  or  two  questions  remain  which  must  at  least  be  glanced 
at  before  this  section  comes  to  a  close  :  such  as  the  relation 
of  the  London  Missionary  Society  to  other  Societies,  and 
the  growth  of  French  aggression. 

I.  The  Relations  MAINTAINED  WITH  other  Societies. 
With  the  Roman  Catholics  it  has  been,  of  course,  possible 
to  have  but  little  intercourse.  This  must  be  so  as  long  as 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church  arrogantly  considers  all  other 
churches  heretical.  They  have  had  many  devoted  agents, 
and  in  1^95  they  had  113  agents  and  about  ico.coo 
adherents,  and  15,000  children  in  their  schools.  At  the 
same  time  there  were  107  Protestant  missionaries  with 
375,000  adherents,  and  about  120^000  children  in  their 
schools.  It  is  the  more  to  be  regretted  that  Rome  cuts 
herself  off  from  all  fellowship  with  other  Christian  bodies 
in  the  island,  as  her  own  record  is  honourable.  It  should 
never  be  forgotten  that  Rome  was  first  in  the  field.  In 
1506  the  Portuguese,  and  in  1648  two  French  priests  began 
mission-work.  Neither  mission  lasted  long,  it  is  true,  but 
both  have  left  slight  traces  upon  the  history  and  upon  the 
literature  of  the  island. 

While  intercourse  with  individual  missionaries,  belonging 
to  the  different  Protestant  societies,  has  almost  always  been 
pleasant    and    helpful,   and    relations    with    the    go\crning 


784         RELATIONS   WITH  OTHER  SOCIETIES 

bodies  generally  cordial,  from  time  to  time  relations  with 
the  crovernincf  bodies  of  one  and  another  have  become 
a  little  strained. 

1.  T/ie  CJnirch  Missionary  Society  have  always  main- 
tained relations  of  a  most  cordial  kind  with  the  Directors 
of  the  London  Missionary  Society.  Although  strongly  urged 
in  1862  by  many  of  their  supporters  to  send  a  well-equipped 
mission  to  Madagascar,  the  committee  then  fully  recognized 
the  fact  that  the  capital  and  the  surrounding  provinces 
were  in  an  especial  sense  a  London  Missionary  Society 
field,  and  declined  to  go  there  in  competition.  An  arrange- 
ment was  made  between  the  Bishop  of  Mauritius  and 
Mr.  Ellis  by  which  the  east  coast  was  to  be  left  as  a  sphere 
for  the  Church  Missionary  Society,  and  also  for  the  Society 
for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel,  if  that  Society  should 
wish  to  unite  in  the  good  work.  A  conference  was  held  in 
London  in  1863  at  the  house  of  the  Society  for  the  Pro- 
pagation of  the  Gospel,  attended  by  the  Archbishops  of 
Canterbury  and  York,  the  Bishops  of  London,  Oxford,  and 
Capetown,  the  secretaries  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society 
and  Dr.  Tidman.  Mainly  in  consequence  of  Dr.  Tidman's 
exposition  of  his  Directors'  views  the  conference  decided 
that  the  question  of  sending  a  resident  bishop  to  Madagascar 
should  be  suspended,  that  no  episcopal  mission  should  be 
opened  in  Antananarivo,  but  that  the  sphere  of  work  for 
the  Church  of  England  should  be  the  east  coast.  In  1863 
both  the  Church  Missionary  Society  and  the  Society  for 
the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel  sent  out  missionaries  to  the 
east  coast  districts.  At  a  later  date  Bishop  Ryan  of 
Mauritius  again  advocated  the  appointment  of  a  bishop 
of  Madagascar,  and  in  this  he  was  supported  by  the  Church 
Missionary  Society's  missionaries.  But  on  December  12 
1870,  the  Church  Missionary  Society  issued  an  important 
minute  on  the  whole  question,  in  which  they  affirm  that 
they  still  feel  bound  by  the  original  agreement  (of  1863), 
and  m  the  following  words  admirably  summarize  the  position 
(^f  affairs  and  the  ground  they  take.  They  deserve  to  be 
placed  on  record  as  an  example  of  how  one  great  Society 


THE   CHURCH  MISSIONARY  SOCIETY         785 

should    deal  with    another  in  these   delicate  questions   of 
interaction  and  definition  of  sphere. 

'  It  cannot  be  necessary,  at  the  present  day,  to  argue  in 
favour  of  the  principle  of  non-interference  between  the 
missions  of  different  societies,  which  this  Society  has  always 
maintained  in  common  with  most  other  societies.  Bishop 
Selwyn,  while  Bishop  of  New  Zealand,  thus  expressed  his 
sense  of  the  importance  of  this  principle  :  "  We  make  a  rule 
never  to  introduce  controversy  amongst  the  native  people,  or 
to  impair  the  simplicity  of  the  Faith.  If  the  fairest  openings 
for  missionary  effort  lie  before  us,  if  the  ground  has  been 
preoccupied  by  any  other  religious  body,  we  forbear  to 
enter.  And  I  can  speak  with  confidence  on  this  point,  from 
observations  ranging  over  nearly  one-half  of  the  Pacific 
Ocean,  that  wherever  this  law  of  religious  amity  is  adopted, 
there  the  Gospel  has  its  full  and  unchecked  and  undivided 
power  ;  wherever  the  servants  of  Christ  endeavour  to  keep 
the  unity  of  the  Spirit  in  ihe  bond  of  peace,  there  the  nativ^e 
converts  are  brought  to  the  knowledge  of  one  Lord,  one 
Faith,  one  Baptism,  one  God  and  Father  of  us  all." 

"The  London  Missionary  Society,  in  1^63,  exhibited  a 
truly  Christian  candour  in  welcoming  Episcopal  mission- 
aries to  the  districts  in  Madagascar  traversed  by  their  own 
missionaries,  which,  by  the  strict  law  of  amity,  might  have 
been  claimed  as  exclusively  their  field.  By  this  arrange- 
ment the  Malagasy  converts  have  the  opportunity  of 
witnessing  the  form  of  worship  and  discipline  in  our  Church 
without  the  appearance  of  rivalry,  or  the  danger  of  collision 
which  would  inevitably  attend  operations  in  the  capital,  and 
might  easily  arise  if  a  resident  bishop  were  on  the  field. 
In  a  fev\^  years  the  Madagascar  converts  will  be  sufficiently 
advanced  in  the  knowledge  of  Divine  things  to  judge  for 
themselves  what  form  of  Church  worship,  discipline,  and 
government  may  be  most  suitable  to  the  national  character 
and  habits  ;  and  so,  as  in  the  primitive  Church,  we  may 
witness  the  natural  and  gradual  development  of  the 
Christian  Ministry,  instead  of  ecclesiastical  controversies 
which  have   been   the  banc   of  the    mother  Church   being 

I.  3E 


786  RELATIONS   WITH  OTHER  SOCIETIES 

propagated  in  the  mission-field.  Tlie  difficulties  connected 
with  the  bishopric  of  Honolulu  afford  a  caution  against 
sending  a  bishop  into  the  sphere  of  a  native  church  organized 
upon  another  system. 

'  Her  Majesty  can  confer  no  jurisdiction  beyond  her 
dominions,  except  by  the  voluntary  submission  of  the 
clergy  to  the  bishop  so  appointed.  Hence  the  Society  is 
expected  voluntarily  to  place  its  missionaries  under  the  new 
bishop,  and  thus  to  sanction  a  scheme  which  it  regards  as 
objectionable,  and  contrary  to  an  implied  pledge.  To  this 
the  Society  cannot  consent :  it  would  rather  submit  to  be 
driven  from  the  island  in  which  it  has  laboured  wdth  much 
success  and  blessing  from  above. 

*  On  these  grounds  the  Church  Missionary  Society  would 
venture  to  suggest,  that  if  it  be  still  thought  expedient  to 
send  an  Anglican  bishop  to  Madagascar,  it  may  be  under 
an  arrangement  which  will  exclude  those  parts  of  the  island 
which  are  the  field  of  labour  of  the  Church  Missionary 
Society  from  the  jurisdiction  of  the  new  bishop,  thus  leaving 
its  missionaries,  as  heretofore,  under  the  Bishop  of  Mauritius.' 

Owing  to  action  taken  by  others  in  the  Church  of 
England  a  bishop  was  finally  consecrated,  and  a  few 
months  later  the  Church  Missionary  Society  entirely  with- 
drew from  work  in  the  island.  Throughout  the  whole 
course  of  affairs  the  Church  Missionary  Society  displayed 
a  consideration  for  the  just  and  reasonable  claims  of  other 
Churches,  and  a  recognition  of  their  rights  and  responsi- 
bilities as  welcome  as  it  is  rare.  What  a  world  of  needless 
controversy,  heartburning,  and  hindrances  to  progress  would 
have  been  avoided  during  the  last  fifty  years  over  the 
mission-fields  of  the  world,  had  the  action  of  the  committee 
of  the  Church  Missionary  Society  in  this  and  in  other  cases 
been  imitated  by  all  other  missionary  governing  bodies. 

2.  The  Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel.  In 
1H63  this  Society  co-operated  with  the  Church  Missionary 
Society  in  the  settlement  then  reached,  and  on  September  i, 
1864,  it  established  two  missionaries  at  Tamatave,  Mr.  Hey 
and  Mr.  Holding.     But  the   governing  body  in   England 


RELATIONS   WITH   THE  S.  P.  G.  787 

never  cordially  accepted  exclusion  from  the  capital,  and 
from  time  to  time  hankered  after  a  bishop.  Basing  its 
action  largely  on  letters  written  by  Bishop  Ryan  early  in 
1866,  letters  which  any  one  conversant  with  the  facts  finds 
it  hard  to  describe  as  other  than  disingenuous,  the  com- 
mittee announced  on  January  20,  1866,  that  it  now  felt 
'  perfectly  at  liberty  to  send  a  missionary  to  Antananarivo.' 

In  a  printed  statement  issued  in  1871  the  Society  for 
the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel  thus  explain  their 
action : — 

'  The  missionaries  of  the  Society  for  the  Propagation  of 
the  Gospel  and  Bishop  Ryan  became  convinced  by  expe- 
rience that  it  was  absolutely  necessary  for  the  safety, 
support,  and  extension  of  their  mission  (i)  that  there 
should  be  some  representative  of  the  Church  of  England 
at  Antananarivo,  which  is  the  seat  of  the  ruling  tribe,  from 
which  Tamatave  and  the  rest  of  the  island  is  governed  ; 
and  (2)  that  the  mission  should  be  under  the  direction  of 
a  bishop  residing  among  the  missionaries,  not  at  the  dis- 
tance of  several  hundred  miles  across  a  difficult  sea. 

'  Early  in  1866  Bishop  Ryan  wrote  to  the  Society  for  the 
Propagation  of  the  Gospel,  the  Church  Missionary  Society, 
and  the  London  Missionary  Society,  informing  them  of  his 
opinion  that  the  time  had  arrived  for  sending  missionaries 
of  the  Church  of  England  to  the  capital.  The  London 
Missionary  Society  protested  against  the  proposal  on  the 
grounds  that  it  involved  a  breach  of  an  agreement  made 
between  Bishop  Ryan  and  Mr.  Ellis  in  J862  ;  and  (as  they 
said)  must  lead  to  collisions  disastrous  to  religion  between 
the  representatives  of  Protestant  Christianity  at  the  capital. 
Bishop  Ryan,  in  a  printed  letter  dated  May  3c,  1866, 
defended  himself  and  his  proposal  against  this  objection, 
repudiating  the  meaning  attached  by  the  London  Mis- 
sionary Society  to  the  oral  communications  which  had 
passed  between  himself  and  Mr.  Ellis  ;  and  the  Society  for 
the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel  passed  a  resolution  to  the 
effect  that  it  ''felt  now  perfectly  at  liberty  to  send  a  mis- 
sionary to  the  capital,  and  entertained  a  hope  that  where 

3  E  2 


788  RELATIONS   WITH  OTHER  SOCIETIES 

the  field  is  so  large,  and  the  labourers  so  few,  no  conflict  or 
collision  will  take  place  between  the  missionaries  of  the 
two  Societies." ' 

In  1869  the  project  of  the  bishopric  was  revived,  a  fund 
was  raised,  but  although  the  movement  had  the  powerful 
support  of  Archbishop  Tait,  it  was  successfully  resisted  by 
the  London  Missionary  Society,  and  the  royal  licence  was 
refused  by  Lord  Granville  in  1872,  and  again  in  1873. 
With  regard  to  this  action  the  document  already  quoted 
thus  explains  the  action  of  the  Society  for  the  Propagation 
of  the  Gospel  : — 

'  Reports — the  accuracy  of  which  has  been  attested  by 
Mr.  Venn's  letter  dated  March  22,  1870 — reached  the 
Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel,  to  the  effect 
that  the  Church  Missionary  Society  was  decidedly  opposed 
to  the  appointment  of  a  resident  bishop  in  Madagascar. 
In  consequence  of  this  information  the  question  of  opening 
a  correspondence  with  the  Church  Missionary  Society  was 
never  brought  before  the  Society.  The  great  principle  of 
placing  a  successful  mission  of  the  Church  of  England,  at 
the  earliest  possible  period,  under  the  personal  direction  of 
a  resident  bishop,  was  sufficient  to  induce  the  Society  to 
take  steps  for  the  appointment  of  a  bishop  in  Madagascar, 
although,  from  the  circumstances  of  his  appointment,  no 
legal  jurisdiction  could  be  given  to  him,  while  his  authority 
would  be  binding  only  on  the  missionaries  of  the  Society, 
and  on  other  persons  who  might  choose  voluntarily  to 
submit  to  it.  The  appointment  of  such  a  bishop  by  the 
Archbishop  of  Canterbury  would  not,  it  was  thought,  com- 
promise the  Church  Missionary  Society  in  respect  of  its 
relations  with  the  London  Missionary  Society,. and  would 
leave  the  existing  relations  between  the  Society  for  the 
Propagation  of  the  Gospel  and  the  Church  Missionary 
unaltered  :  at  the  same  time,  such  a  bishop  would  be 
practically  available  for  any  episcopal  functions  which 
might  be  required  of  him  by  any  society  or  persons  in 
connection  with  the  Anglican  Church.' 

At  length  the  difficulty  was  evaded,  under  the  advice  of 


CONSECRATION  OF  BISHOP  CORNISH         789 

Archbishop  Tait,  by  getting  the  Episcopal  Church  of 
Scotland  to  consecrate  the  Rev.  R.  K.  Kestell-Cornish 
on  February  2,  1874.  He  took  up  work  at  Antananarivo 
in  November,  1874.  On  August  10,  1889,  the  Cathedral 
of  St.  Lawrence  at  Antananarivo  was  consecrated.  The 
Digest  of  the  Society  for  the  Propagatio7i  of  the  Gospel 
Records  ^  refers  to  the  influence  of  the  bishop  in  Antana- 
narivo in  these  words  :  '  The  presence  of  the  bishop  at  the 
capital  did  not  lead  to  any  unpleasant  complications,  either 
with  the  Madagascar  Government  or  people,  or  with  the 
agents  of  the  various  religious  bodies  at  work  there.  From 
the  Government  the  Church  received  a  friendly  recognition, 
and  was  thankfully  accepted  by  not  a  few  of  the  people ; 
and  both  at  Antananarivo  and  in  other  parts  of  the  island 
it  found,  and  still  finds,  work  to  do  beyond  its  strength 
without  interfering  with  "other  men's  labours."  ' 

This  series  of  events  unhappily  gave  rise  to  much  fruit- 
less and  some  envenomed  controversy.  That  many  persons 
in  the  Church  of  England  judged  the  action  of  the  Society 
for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel  to  be  needless  and  open 
to  objection  is  shown  by  the  action  of  the  Church  Missionary 
Society,  and  also  by  the  following  extract  from  an  article 
in  the  Record  for  January  9,  1874  : — 

*  We  rather  regret  that  a  wise  and  large-minded  prelate 
like  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  one  who  knows  so  much 
better  than  most  of  his  brethren  the  signs  of  the  times, 
should  have  judged  it  discreet  to  yield  to  pressure  and 
encourage  the  Church  over  which  he  presides  to  undertake 
the  unapostolic  office  of  *'  building  on  another  man's  foun- 
dation." Bishop  Selwyn,  High  Churchman  as  he  is,  had 
at  all  events  the  merit  during  his  episcopate  in  New 
Zealand  of  loyally  refusing  to  interfere  with  the  Noncon- 
formist missionaries.  The  same  spirit  was  beautifully  con- 
spicuous in  the  much  more  self-denying  and  earnest 
Bishop  Patteson.  There  arc  abundance  of  mission-fields 
still  unoccupied  which  invite  missionary  zeal,  both  PLpis- 
copalian    and     Nonconformist.      The     heathen    world    is 

'  IX-e  378. 


y9o  FRENCH  AGGRESSION 

surely  wide  enough  for  all,  and  it  would  be  well  for  all  to 
avoid  the  danger  of  giving  the  enemy  of  souls  the  oppor- 
tunity of  marring  the  good  work  of  proclaiming  Christ's 
o-lad  tidings  of  salvation  by  introducing^  strifes  about 
apostolical  succession,  vestments,  baldacchinos,  incense, 
genuflexions,  and  prostrations.' 

3.  The  only  other  society  with  which  there  was  any 
difficulty  in  adjusting  working  relations  was  the  Norwegian. 
This  arose,  in  the  first  instance,  from  a  misunderstanding 
about  the  Betsileo  province,  which  the  first  Norwegian 
missionaries  to  reach  Madagascar  apparently  expected  was 
to  be  left  wholly  to  them.  They  in  turn,  against  the  wish 
of  the  London  Missionary  Society,  persisted  in  establishing 
themselves  in  Antananarivo.  But  long  years  ago  any  little 
friction  aroused  by  these  events  passed  away,  part  of 
Betsileo  was  handed  over  to  the  Norwegian  Society,  and 
the  missionaries  of  the  two  societies  have  worked  side  by 
side  for  many  years  in  brotherly  fellowship. 

With  regard  to  the  whole  question  of  relation  to  other 
societies,  in  justice  to  the  London  Missionary  Society 
Directors  and  missionaries  alike  this  must  be  said.  They 
have  never  had  the  slightest  desire  to  check  mission-work 
on  the  part  of  any.  But  being  already  firmly  established 
in  Imerina,  for  the  sake  of  the  natives,  they  have  felt  it 
neither  unbrotherly  nor  unreasonable  to  urge  those  who 
hold  strong  ecclesiastical  views  to  choose  new  fields  of 
labour,  and  not  to  thrust  their  distinctive  ecclesiastical 
polity  forward  where  the  undue  prominence  given  to  it  is 
likely  to  arouse  controversy  on  matters  of  Church  organi- 
zation and  polity  which  are  far  less  important  than  the 
evangelization  of  the  heathen. 

11.  French  Aggression.  To  trace  in  detail  the  story 
of  French  claims  and  of  French  aggression  in  Madagascar 
would  be  a  wearying  and  barren  digression  from  the  main 
purpose  of  this  volume.  We  cannot,  however,  close  this 
sketch  of  the  wonderful  Madagascar  Mission  without  a  brief 
reference  to  an  influence  which  has  powerfully  affected  the 


FRENCH  AGGRESSION  791 

island  during  this  century,  and  must  still  more  powerfully 
affect  it  through  the  century  to  come. 

As  early  as  the  seventeenth  century  France  had  occupied 
Fort  Dauphine,  at  the  south-east  end  oi  the  island,  Point 
Foule,  and  other  places  on  the  east  coast.  When  Great 
Britain  seized  Mauritius  and  Bourbon  she  also  acquired 
whatever  rights  and  possessions  France  had  obtained  in 
Madagascar.  After  Waterloo  Bourbon  was  restored  to 
France ;  Mauritius,  and  with  it  all  Madagascar  rights,  re- 
tained. In  the  time  of  Radama  I,  by  the  treaty  which 
Governor  Farquhar  signed  in  181 7,  all  these  rights  were 
renounced,  and  Radama  was  acknowledged  as  King  of  Mada- 
gascar. But  the  French  never  relinquished  the  idea  that  in 
some  sense  the  island  still  belonged  to  them.  By  treaty 
with  local  chiefs  France  acquired  in  1821  the  island  of 
St.  Mary,  and  in  1841  Nosibe.  In  1845  Ranavalona's 
decree  that  foreign  traders  in  Tamatave  must  submit  to 
Malagasy  law  or  leave  the  island  led  to  an  attack  on  the 
fort  there  by  English  and  French  ships,  but  the  fort  was 
not  captured.  The  Lambert  treaty  was  repudiated  by 
Rasoherina,  and  this  led  to  much  negotiation,  and  ultimately 
to  an  indemnity  paid  by  Madagascar  to  France  of  ^4,800. 
The  treaty  between  France  and  Madagascar  in  1868,  by 
which  Rasoherina  was  recognized  Queen  of  Madagascar, 
again  seemed  to  renounce  French  claims.  In  1883  war 
broke  out,  Mojanga  was  seized,  Tamatave  bombarded,  and 
Mr.  G.  A.  Shaw  treated  in  a  scandalously  high-handed 
manner  by  Admiral  Pierre  ^  In  1886  a  treaty  was  con- 
cluded which  reserved  to  the  Hovas  control  of  domestic 
affairs,  gave  the  French  a  privileged  position  in  regard  to 
foreign  affairs,  and  placed  all  Malagasy  living  abroad  under 
the  protection  of  France.  In  consequence  of  this  a  French 
resident  was  established  at  Antananarivo  with  a  staff  and 
guard  of  honour  of  about  fifty  men.  The  Bay  of  Diego 
Suarez  on  the  north-east  coast  was  ceded  to  France.  In 
this  treaty  were  ambiguous  phrases,  and  though  the  word 
'  protectorate '  was  not  there,  the  establishment  of  the  thing 

'   For  details  see  Madagascar  and  France  by  G.  A.  Shaw. 


792  FRENCH  AGGRESSION 

was  the  end  at  which,  in  this  instance,  French  diplomacy 
aimed.  The  prime  minister  signed  this  treaty  finally  only 
because  it  w^as  accompanied  by  an  annex,  signed  by  the 
French  commissioners,  M.  Patrimonio  and  Admiral  Miot, 
which  contained  both  explanations  and  limitations.  '  This 
annex  was  suppressed  when  the  treaty  was  brought  before 
the  French  Chambers,  and  has  always  been  treated  by  the 
French  officials  as  so  much  waste  paper  \'  Friction  con- 
tinued between  the  Malagasy  and  French  officials  from  the 
date  of  the  treaty.  On  August  5,  1890,  Lord  Salisbury, 
needlessly  in  the  opinion  of  many,  acknowledged  the  French 
Protectorate.  In  the  agreement  between  the  French  and 
British  Governments  this  clause  was  inserted  :  *  In  Mada- 
gascar the  missionaries  of  both  countries  shall  enjoy  com- 
plete protection.  Religious  toleration  and  liberty  for  all 
forms  of  worship  and  religions  shall  be  guaranteed.'  Had 
the  Protectorate  continued  this  might  have  been  enforced. 
But  in  1896  France  conquered  the  island,  dethroned  and 
banished  the  queen,  and  by  right  of  conquest  claims  ab- 
solute authority  in  the  island  ;  not  even  admitting  herself 
to  be  bound  by  the  toleration  clause  in  the  treaty  of  1890. 
France  has  already  astutely  availed  herself  of  those  clauses 
which  the  Malagasy  Government  insisted  upon  inserting  in 
all  title-deeds,  to  claim  many  of  the  mission  buildings  for 
Government  use,  and  to  hinder  much  of  the  mission-work. 
Time  only  can  show  whether  the  action  of  France  in 
Tahiti  is  to  be  repeated  in  Madagascar,  or  whether  with 
a  larger  toleration,  or  in  the  blaze  of  a  fiercer  light,  the 
Republic  will  be  satisfied  with  the  absolute  power  for  which 
she  has  so  long  lusted,  and  allow  the  native  church  to 
develop  as  it  will.  Whatever  the  future  has  in  store  this 
generation  of  British  Christians  will  both  hope  and  believe 
that  a  church  with  so  much  that  is  inspiring  and  glorious 
in  its  past  has  yet,  under  the  guidance  of  God,  a  great  part 
to  play  in  the  development  of  Malagasy  life,  civilization, 
and  spiritual  enlightenment. 

'  Madagascar  of  To-day,  by  W.  E.  Cousins,  p.  150. 


APPENDIX  I 


A  Complete  List  of  the  Missionaries  who  have  laboured 
IN   Polynesia,  Aprica,   and   JNIadagascar. 


The  following  lists  are  intended  to  show  the  year  of  arrival  of 
missionaries  at  each  mission-field  or  station,  and  the  length  of  service. 
The  death  of  a  missionary  at  his  station  is  indicated  by  italicized  figures 
in  the  third  column,  f'igures  in  parentheses  after  a  name  indicate  other 
sections  of  the  same  main  division,  and  Roman  numerals  other  main 
divisions,  in  which  the  name  will  also  be  found. 


I. 

SOCIETY  ISLANDS. 


(1)  Tahiti. 


Mission  Field 

Arr. 

Left. 

Bicknell,  Henry 

^ITi 

1S20 

Broomhall,  Benjamin 

1797 

1801 

Clode,  Samuel 

1797 

1798 

Cock,  John  ... 

1797 

1798 

Cover,  James  Fleet... 

1797 

1798 

Eyre,  John   ... 

1797 

1808 

Gilham,  John  A.  (surj^eon) 

1797 

1797 

Harris,  John 

11 

1797 

1800 

Hassell,  Rowland    ... 

1797 

1798 

Henry,  William          (2), 

(3)' 

'J  797 

1842 

Hodges,  Peter 

1797 

1798 

Jeft'erson,  John 

1797 

1807 

Lewis,  Thomas 

1797 

1798 

Main,  Edward 

1797 

1798 

Nott,  Henry (2),  (3) 

1797 

1S44 

Oakes,  Francis 

Puckcy  James 

Puckey,  William 

Smith,  William 

[For  list  of  thirty  mission- 
aries captured  by  the  French 
in  1799  ^^^  footnote^.] 

Davies,  John  ...(2),  (3) 

Elder,  James  ...         (3) 

Hayward,  James     ...(2),  (3) 

Mitchell  ^,  James 

Morrice ',  Stephen 

Read*,  William       

Scott,  William         ...(2),  (3) 

Shepherd'',  James 

Tessier,  Samuel      ...         (3) 


Mission 
Arr. 

1797 
1797 
1797 

1797 


1801 
1801 
1801 


1801 
iSoi 

1801 


Field 
Left. 
1798 
1798 
1798 
179S 


J555 
1808 

l8i2 


iSoi 
1808 

1S20 


'  John  Beattie,  Clark  Bentom,  Spence  Broughton,  Joseph  Cooper.  Thomas  Fitz- 
gibbon,  William  Gregory,  George  Gregory,  John  (iuard,  Walter  Hawkins,  fames 
Hayward,  Jolin  Hill,  William  Ilowell,  Robert  Hughes,  John  Jcrard,  James  Jones, 
Jolm  Levesque,  Peter  Levesque,  John  Macdonald,  Daniel  Milkr,  John  Mitchell, 
Griffith  Parry,  James  Read,  James  Smith,  Joseph  Smith,  William  Sxldy,  Samuel 
Turner  (surgeon),  Joshua  I^ambert  Vardy,  William  Waters,  Charles  Wilson,  John 
}'oul.  With  the  exception  of  names  in  italics,  these  missionaries  retired  from  the 
service  of  the  Society  on  their  arrival  in  England  (cf.  pp.  60-64). 

^  On  arriving  at  Port  Jackson  in  iSoo  his  connection  with  the  Society  ceased. 

^  Died  at  Port  Jackson,  1800,  en  route  for  Tahiti. 

*  Afterwards  jomed  the  Ceylon  Mission. 

•^  Sailed  in  i8cx),  but  was  left  at  the  Isle  of  Wight  owing  to  illness. 


794 


APPENDIX  I 


Waters,  William 

Wilson,  Charles      ...(2);  (3) 

Voul,  John   ... 

Shelly,  William       ...        Ill 

Warner,   Gregory    (surgeon) 

(3) 
Eoiirne.  Robert  ...(2),  (6) 
Crook. WilliamPascoe  (2),I1 
Gyles,  John  (agriculturalist") 
Darling,  David  ...(2),  II 
Armitage,    Elijah     (artisan) 


Mission 
Arr. 
So  I 


Blossom,   Thomas 


(2),  IV 
(artisan) 
(2) 


Jones,  Thomas 
Pritchard,  George   ... 
Pitman,  Charles  (4),  (6),  IV 
Buzacott,  Aaron      ...         IV 
Simpson,  Alexander  (2) 

Oramond,  John  Muggridge 

(2),  (3),  (4),  (5) 
Rodgerson,  John    ...  (5),  II 
Howe,  William       ...(2),  IV 
Johnston,     Joseph    (school- 
master) 
Joseph,  Thomas 
Stevens,  Charles  Green 
Smee,  Alfred  (printer) 
Stall  worthy,  George       II,  V 
Thomson,  Robert    ... 
Buchanan,  Ebenezer  (school- 
master) ...  V 
Jesson,  John  Thomas 
StcKean,  Thomas  Smith    ... 

Moore,  Joseph         

Chisholm,  Alexander  (4\  V 
Barff,  John  (2),  (3),  (5),' (6) 
Lind,  William  Alexander  ... 
Spencer,  George 
Morris,  George  ...  (4) 
Green ',  James  Lampard 
(3),  (6) 


(2)    ElMEO   (MOOREA) 

Hay  ward,  James 
Nott,  Henry 
Scott,  William 
Wilson,  Charles 
Davies,  J(jhn 
Henry,  William 


•(1),  (3) 
•(1),  (3) 
•(1),  (3) 
•(1),  (3) 
.(1),  (3) 
•(1),  (3) 


8oi 
8oi 
8o2 

807 
818 
818 
818 
819 

821 

821 
821 
824 
825 
827 
827 

831 
837 
839 

839 
839 

839 

841 

841 
841 

842 

842 
842 

843 
846 

847 
852 
852 
863 

1870 


1808 
1808 
1808 
1808 
tSii 
1811 


Field 
Left. 
804 
844 
807 
806 

808 
822 
830 
819 
859 

835 

844 
826 

837 
826 
828 
850 

844 
839 
863 

849 
844 
840 

847 
844 
850 

844 
844 

8U 

844 
852 
852 
852 

853 
868 

i836 


1818 
1818 
1815 
1817 
1818 
1832 


Mission 
Arr. 


Crook,      William 


Pascoe 

(1),  n 

..(3),  (6) 
..(1),  (6) 

..(i),n 

(3),  XII 


Barff,  Charles 
Bourne,  Robert 
Darling,  David 
Ellis  2,  William 
Orsmond,    John    Muggridge 
(1),(3),  (4),(5) 
Piatt,  George  ...(4),  (5) 

Threlkeld,  Lancelot  Edward 

(3),  (4) 
W^illiams,  John 

(4),  IV,  V,  VI 
Armitage,    Elijah     (artisan) 

(1),  IV 
Blossom, Thomas(artisan)  (1) 
Simpson,  Alexander  (I) 

Howe,  William  (1),  IV 

Barff,  John    (1),  (3),  (5),  (6) 

(3)    HUAHINE. 

Elder,  James  ...  (1) 

Henry,  W^illiam  ...(1),  (2) 
Tessier,  Samuel  ...  (1) 
Warner,  Gregory    (surgeon) 

(1) 
Hay  ward,  James  ...(1),  (2) 
Scott,  William  ...(1),(2) 
Wilson,  Charles  ...(1),  (2) 
Barff,  Charles  ...(2),  (6) 

Davies,  John  ...(1),  (2) 

Ellis,  W^niiam  (2),  XII 

Nott,  Henry  ...(1),  (2) 

Orsmond,    John    Muggridge 

(1),  (4),  (5) 
Smith,  James 

Barff,  John  (1),  (2),  (5),  (6) 
Vivian,  James  Clark  (4),  (6) 
Green,      James        Lampard 

(1),  (6) 
Saville,  Alfred  Thomas 
Cooper,  Ebenezer  Vicessimus 

V 

(4)  Raiatea. 

Orsmond,   John    Muggridge 

(1),  (3),  (5) 
Threlkeld,  Lancelot  Edward 

(2) 


816 

817 
817 

817 
817 

817 
817 

817 

817 

823 

823 
829 

839 
844 


808 


809 
809 
809 
818 
818 
818 
818 

818 
831 
839 
865 

866 

867 


i8i{ 
i8i{ 


Field 
Left. 


In  1889  Mr.  Green  became  pastor  of  Ebenezer  Chapel,  Demerara,  and  represented 
the  Society  m  lintish  Guiana.  i     5  ^  F 

In  1822  Mr.  Ellis  visited  the  Sandwich  Islands,  and  accepted  an  invitation  to  join 
ine  mission  there.  He  returned  to  Huahine  for  his  family,  and  settled  at  Oahu  in 
1023,  but  left  in  1824.  ^ 


APPENDIX  I 


795 


Williams,  John 

l3),  IV,  V,  VI 

Pitman,  Charles  (1),  (6),  IV 
Smith,  James  ...(3),  (6) 

Loxton.  James 
Piatt,  George  .,.(2),  (5) 

Charter,  George 
Chisholm,  Alexander    (1),  V 
Morris,  George        ...         (1) 
Vivian.  James  Clark  (3),  (6', 
Pearse,  Albert  ...(5),  IX 

Richards^,  William  Edward 

(6) 

(5)    BORABORA. 

Orsmond,   John    Mnggridge 

(1),  (3),  (4) 
Piatt,  George  ...(2),  (4) 


Mission  Field  \ 

Arr. 

Left. 

i8i8 

1831 

1826 

1827 

18:51 

1832? 

1834 

1SS4 

1836 

1865 

18.^9 

185:. 

1852 

1S60 

1861 

1S63 

1863 

1874 

1874 

1887 

1885 

1888 

1820 

1824 

1824 

1835 

Mission  Field 


Rodgerson,  John     ...  II 

Kranse,      Ernest      Rudolph 

William (6),  IV 

Barff,  John  (1),  (2),  (3),  (6) 
Pearse,  Albert  ...(4),  IX 

(6)  Tahaa. 

Bourne,  Robert  ...(1),  (2) 
Pitman,  Charles  (1),  (4),  IV 
Smith,  James  ...(3),  (4) 

Krause,      Ernest      Rudolph 

William (5),  IV 

Barff,  John  (1),  (2),  (3),  (5) 
Barff,  Charles  ...(2),  (3) 

Green,      James       Lampard 

(1),(3) 
Vivian,  James  Clark  (3),  (4) 
RichardSjWilliamEdward  (4) 


Arr.    Left. 

1839     184:7 


1851 

1852 
1870 


1822 
1827 
1833 

1843 
1857 
i860 

1861 
1863 
1886 


1855 
i8.^3 
1S74 


1S27 
1827 
1833 

1 85 1 

mho 
1S60 

1867 

1874 

1888 


Harris,  John 

Cruok,  \\  illiam  Pascoe 

Darling,  David 


II. 
MARQUESAS 

Mission  Field 

Arr.    Left. 
1,1797    1797 

1797    1799 


1 1  1834    1835 


Stalhvoithy,  George 
Rodgerson,  John 
Thomson,  Robert 


Mission  Field 

Afr.    Left. 

I.  V    1834    1S41 

I    1834    1837 

I    1839  \  1841 


Bowell,  Daniel 
Buchanan,  John 
Cooper,  James 
Gaulton,  Samuel 
Harper,  Samuel 


TIL 

TONGATABU  (FRIENDLY  ISLANDS 


Kelso,  Seth  ... 
Nobbs,  It^aac 
Shelly,  William 
Veeson,  George 
Wilkinson,  James 


Mission  Field 

Arr.    Left. 

1797 

7799 

1797 

1800 

1797 

1800 

1797 

i?&9 

•797 

1700 

Mission  Field 


Arr. 

1797 
1797 

1797 
1797 
•797 


Left. 

iSoo 

1797 
1800 
1S02 
iSoo 


IV. 
HERVEY  ISLANDS. 


Mission  Field 

Mission  Field 

Arr.    Left. 

Arr.    Left. 

(1)  Raratonga. 

Gill,  George... 

...         (4) 

1857 

1S60 

Pitman,  Charles      ...            I 

1827 

1854 

Krause,      Ernest 

Rudolph 

Williams,  John         I,  V,  VI 

1827 

1839 

William    ... 

...     (3),  I 

1859 

1867 

Buzacott,  Aaron       ...            I 

1828 

1857 

Howe,  William 

I 

1S63 

18ii3 

Armitage,  Elijah  (artisan)    I 

1833 

18:5:; 

Chalmers,  James 

IX 

1867 

x^ll 

Macdonald,  Alexander        V 

1836 

1837 

Gill.  B.A.,  LL.D. 

William 

Gill,  William          

1839 

1852 

Wyalt 

...         (4) 

1877 

1883 

*  Mr.  Richards  was  for  a  short  time  connected  with  the  Madras  Mission  before  pro- 
ceeding to  the  Society  Islands. 


796 


APPENDIX  I 


Hiitchin, John  Joseph  Knight 
Lawrence,     William     Nicol 

(•2),  (4) 


(2)    AlTUTAKI. 

Royle,  Henry 

Lawrence,     William     Nicol 

(1),  (4) 


Mission  Field 
An:  Left. 
1882 


1891 


1839 

1885 


1893 


1876 


(3)  Atiu. 
Krause,     Ernest 
William    ... 


Mission  Field 
Arr.    Left. 


Rudolph 

...    (1),  I 


(4)  Mangaia. 
Gill,  George  ...         (1) 

Gill,  B.A.,  LL.D.,  William 

Wyatt       (1) 

Harris,  George  Alfred 
Lawrence,  Wm.  Nicol  (1),(2) 
Cullen,  James  Harris     VHI 


1842 


1845 

1852 
1871 
1884 
1894 


1843 


1857 

1872 

1893 

1885 


V. 


SAMOA  (SAVAH,  UPOLU.  TUTUILA,  MANUA). 


M: 


Bamden,  George 
Murray,   Archibald 


Wright 
VII,  IX 
VI 


Heath,  Thomas 

Mills,  William         

Hardie,  Charles 

Macdonald,  Alexander       IV 

Day,  William 

Stair,  John  Betteridge  (prin- 
ter, afterwards  missionary) 

Buchanan,  Ebenezer  I 

Pratt,  George  VII,  VIII,  IX 

Williams,  John        I,  IV,  VI 

Drummond,  George 

Slatyer,  Thomas 

Harbutt,  William   ... 

Dickson  \  Henry 

Pjullen,  Thomas 

Turner,  LL.D.,  George     VI 

Nisbct,  LL.D.,  Henry       VI 

Chisholm,  Alexander  I 

Stallworthy,  George        I,  11 

Sunderland, James Povey  VII 

Powell,  Thomas 

Llla,  Samuel  (printer,  after- 
wards missionary)         VII 

Schmidt,  Carl  William  E. 

]-aw,  William 


ission  Field 
Arr,  Left. 

836  ism 


836 
836 
836 
836 

837 
838 

838 

838 

839 

839 
841 

840 

840 

841 
841 

843 

843 
844 

845 
845 


1870 

184:8 

1854 
1854 
1850 
1845 

1845 
1849 
1879 
1839 
1872 

1845 
1858 

1848 
1882 
187Q 
1846 
18bd 
1854 
1885 


VII 


Williams,  John 
Heath,  Thomas 


I,  IV 


848    1862 

848    185; 
852     1854 

VI. 
NEW  HEBRIDES 
Mission  Field 
Arr.    L^eft. 


Creagh,  Stephen  Mark 

Gee,  Henry  ... 

Bird,  Peter  Goold 

Simmons^,  John  Wilkes 

King,  Joseph 

Mills,  John  McGregor 

Whitmee  ^,  Samuel  James  . . . 

Scott, B.  A.,  George  Frederick 

Davies,  L.R.C.S.,  L.R.C.P., 
Samuel  Hickman... 

Michie*,  Alexander 

Watson,  William  Joseph    ... 

Turner,M.D., George  Alexan- 
der (medical) 

Shaw,GeorgeAndrew(school- 
master)      XII 

Phillips,  Charles     ... 

Marriott,  John 

Newell,  James  Edward 

Clarke,  William  Edward  ... 

Wilson,  W^illiam  Henry     ... 

Claxton^,  Arthur  Edward... 

Plills,  John  William 

Go  ward,  William  Edward  ... 

Hunt,  Archibald  Earnest     IX 

Cooper,EbenezerVicessimusI 

Beveridge,  Sidney  Alexander 


Mission  Field 
Arr.    Left. 

1857 
i860 

1861 


1863 
1863 
1863 
1865 

1867 

1867 

1868 

1869 

1878 
1879 
1881 
1883 
1884 
1885 
1887 
1888 
1890 

1893 
1895 


1858 
1864 
18QA 


1872 
18U 
1876 
1873 

1895 

1870 

1879 

1870 
1886 


1895 
1887 
1891 


1895 


1839 
1842 


18SS) 
1842 


Nisbet,  LL.D.,  Henry         V 
Turner,  LL.D.,  George       V 


Mission  Field 
Arr.    Left. 


1842 
1842 


1843 
1843 


^  Died  at  Sydney,  1840,  en  route  for  Samoa. 
»  In*'K'"' M  ^'\Jt'"''^  '"  ^860,  but  on  arriving  at  Sydney  retired  from  the  Society. 
for  two  y/ars     *        ^^""^^^  ^^^  re-engaged  by  the  Society  for  special  service  in  Samoa 

T.hri'wm-^'''''"  ^\^}T^  '"  '^^^'  ^^"^'  «w'"g  to  an  accident  to  Mrs.  Michie,  left  the 
-  InVi,     VI  ^V  ;  '^^'''"'^^'  ^"^  ^"g^ged  i"  pastoral  work  in  the  colony. 
in  1094  Mr,  Llaxton  was  appointed  to  Chung  King,  West  China. 


APPENDIX  I 


797 


VIL 

LOYALTY  ISLANDS. 


Creagh,  Stephen  Mark 
Jones,  John  ... 
Sunderland,  James  Povey  V 
Baker,  William 
Macfarlane,    LL.D.,  Samuel 

Sleigh,  James 


Mission  Field  \ 

V 

Arr. 
1854 

Left. 
1886 

V 

f'l 

1854 
1854 
1859 

1887 

1855 
1861 

CI 

X 

1859 
18G2 

1871 

1887 

Irvine  ',  Alexander 
Ella,  Samuel  V 

Murray,    Archibald    Wright 
V,  IX 
Pratt,  George     V,  VIII,  IX 
Hadfield,  James 


Mission  Lield 
Arr.     Left. 


1864 

1870 
1872? 
1878 


Uz> 


1874? 
1873? 


Alission 

Field 

Arr. 

Lrft. 

LaweSjD.D., William  George 

IX 

1861 

1872 

Pratt,  George        V,  VII,  IX 

1861 

1862 

VIIL 
NIUE  (OR  SAVAGE  ISLAND). 


Lawes,  Francis  Edwin 
Cullen,  James  Harris 


IX. 
NEW^  GUINEA. 


Mission  Field 

Arr.    Left. 

...|i868 

IV 


1891 


1894 


Mission  Field 

Arr. 

Left. 

Macfarlane,  LL.D.,  Samuel 

VII 

1871 

1885 

Murray,    Archibald    Wright 

V,  VII 

1872 

1874 

Lawes, D.D., William  George 

VIII 

1874 

Tumer,M.D.  .William  Young 

('medical")  ... 

1876 

1876 

Chalmers,  James     ...         IV 

1877 

P>es\vick,  Thomas    ... 

1879 

1881 

Scott,  James  Tait    ... 

1880 

1882 

Kidgley,      M.B.,      Thomas 

^medical)  ... 

1882 

1 88  2 

Scott,  Harry 
Sharpe,  Watson 
Savage,  Edwin  Bentley 
Hunt,  Archibald  Ernest    V 
Pearse,  Albert        ...  I 

Pratt,  George  V,  VII,  VIII 
Dauncey,  Harry  Moore  ... 
Walker,  Frederick  William 
Abel,  Charles  William  ... 
Holmes,  John  Henry 
Ingram,  Thomas  William 
Schlencker,  Henry  Percy  ... 
Cribb,  Charles  James 


Mission  Field 

Arr. 

Left. 

188:5 

1886 

1885 

ISSO 

1885 

1891 

1887 

1887 

1887 

1887 

1888 

1888 

1896 

1890 

1893 

1894 

1895 

1895 

1896 

X. 


LADY  MISSIONARIES  IN  POLVNIiSIA. 


Schultze,    Wilhelmine  P'ran- 

zeskaLouiseValesca(Samoa) 

Moore,  Elizabeth       (Samoa) 


Mission  Field 
Arr.   Left. 


1890 
1891 


ArdilljEmogene  (Rarotonga) 

Large, Agnes  Eunice  (^Samoa) 

Removed  to  Rarotonga  ... 


Mission  Field 
Arr.    Left. 
1892  I 
1892 
1895  I 


^  Died  at  Sydney  in  1S63  on  his  way  to  Uvea. 


798 


APPENDIX  I 


XI. 

AFRICA. 


\l)  Sierra  Leone. 

Cappe,  George 
Russell,  Alexander  ... 


(2)  Cape  Colony. 

Edmonds,  John 

Edwards,  William 

Kicherer,  John 

Kramer,  Cornelius  Adrian(3) 

Vanderkemp,     M.D,,     John 

Theodosius 
Anderson,  William...         (3) 
Read  (i),  James      ...    (3),  I 
Tromp,  Bastian       ...        (3) 

Vanderlingen,  Aart  Anthony 

Bakker,  Mews  Jans... 

Manenberg,  — 

Verster,  Herman 

Irwin,  John  ... 

Ullbright,  John  Gottfried  ... 

Vos.  Arie 

Pacalt,  Carl ... 


Mission  Field 
Arr.    Left. 


Seidenfaden,  John   ... 
Smit,  Erasmus 
Wimmer,  Michael  ... 
Bartlett,  John 
Comer,  William  Forgler 
Ebner,  John  Lion  Hart 
Helm,  Henry 
Messer,  John  George 
Sass,  Christopher    ... 
Schmelen,  John  Henry 
Albrecht,  Christian  ... 
Thom,  George 
Barker,  George 
Evans,  John... 
Marquard,  Leopold... 
Williams,  Joseph    ... 

Brownlce,  John 

Evans,  Evan 

Hooper,  Frederick  6.  W 
Kitchingman,  James 
Taylor,  John 
Philip,  1 ).!).,  John..'! 
Monro,  John 


(3) 


(3) 

(3) 

(3) 
(3) 
(3) 


(3) 


1797 
1797 


799 
799 
799 
799 

799 

800 

800 
800 

800 
801 
801 
801 
802 
805 
805 
809 

809 
809 
809 
811 
811 
811 
811 
811 
811 
811 
812 
812 
815 
815 
815 
815 
817 
825 
817 
817 
817 
817 
820 
821 


1798 
1128 


1800 
1800 
180^ 
1815 

IBll 

1848 

lSo2 

? 

circ. 
1805 
1821 
1801 
1801 
ISO'S 
1821 
186? 
1818 
circ. 
1820 
1821 
184.0 
1825 
1821 
1815 

184:8 

1842 
1842 
1848 
1816 
i8t8 
1856 
1816 

9 

1818 
1818 
1867 
1827 
1819 
1848 
1818 
1850 
184') 


Mission 
A7'r. 


Wright,  Peter  (artisan,  after- 


Ficld 
Left. 


wards  ordained) 
Edwards,    Thomas 

master) 
Edwards,     Rogers 


(3) 
(school- 

(artisan) 

(3) 


Robson,  Adam 
Foster,  W^illiam 

Miles,  Richard  

Kayser,  Frederick  Gottlob... 
Clark,  James  (catechist,  &c.) 

(3) 

Elliott',  WMlliam    .. 

Atkinson,  Theophilus        (3) 

Baillie,  John  ...         (3) 

Kolbe,  George  Augustus  (3) 

Van  Lingen,  Albert 

Melvill,  John  ...         (3) 

Hood,  Thomas  Samuel 
(schoolmaster,  afterwards 
missionary) 

Canham,John  (schoolmaster) 
XII 

Helm,  Daniel  J. 

Locke,  John 

Merrington,  Thomas  Samuel 
(schoolmaster,  afterwards) 
missionary) 

Read  (2),  James 

Williams,  Edward  ... 

Birt,  Richard  

Calderwood,  Henry 

Passmore,  William  (school- 
master) 

Smit.NicholasHenry  (school- 
master,afterwards  mission- 
ary)   

Solomon,  Edward  (school- 
master,afterwards  m  ission- 
ary)  .  ...         (3) 

Vogelgezang,  M. 

Philip,  William 

Taylor^,  Robert  Barry 

Schreiner,  Gottlob   ...        (3) 

Gill,  Joseph... 

Anderson, Bartholomew  Ebe- 
nezer  (schoolmaster,  after- 
wards missionary) 

Brown  ^,  John  Crombie 

Paterson,  Thomas  Jones    ... 


1821 
1822 

1823 

182.^ 
1825 
1826 
1827 

1828 
1828 
1829 
1829 
1829 
1830 
1831 


1833 

1835 
1835 
1837 


1837 
1837 
1837 
1838 
1838 

1839 
1839 


1839 
1839 
1840 
1841 
1842 
1843 


1844 
1844 
1845 


Attempted  to  commence  a  mission  in  the  Comoro  Islands  in  182 1. 
Pormcrly  a  missionary  at  Demerara. 
Formerly  at  St.  Petersburg. 


APPENDIX  I 


799 


Philip.!^. A. .Thomas  Durant 

De  Kock,  S.  N 

G  regorowski .  Reinhold  Theo- 
dor 

Kitchingman,  Joseph 

Kayser,     Frederick     G.    G. 
schoolmaster,    afterwards 
missionary) 

Thomson,  W.  Y.     ...         (3) 

Christie \  George     ...        (3) 

Thompson^,  William 

Campbell,  James  Nicoll 
(schoolmaster) 

Kolbe,  Frederick  William... 

]\.ead,  John  Vanderkemp   ... 

Kayser,  Henry 

Fhilip,  B.A.,  Wilberforce  ^ 
Buxton     ...          ...  \ 

Wimmer,  Michael  (school- 
mnster) 

Brockway,  Thomas  (school- 
master, afterwards  or- 
dained) 

Elliott,  Samuel  P.    ... 

Murray,  William     ... 

McLeod,  John 

Owen,  HughG.  (schoolmaster) 

Dower,  William 

Williams,  Charles   ...         (3) 

Williamson^,  Henry  C. 

Harper,  John 

Mackenzie,  John     .,.(3),  (4) 

Wilson*,  Mark  Henry 


(3)  North  of  the  Orange 
River.     Great    Nama- 

QUALAND.      GRIQI'ALANP 

West,  and  Bechwana- 

i.AND. 

Anderson,  William  (2) 

Kramer,  Cornelius  Adrian(2) 
Albrecht,  Abrnham... 
Albrecht,  Christian...        (2) 
Seidenfaden,  John  ...         (2) 


Alission 
Arr. 
845 


848 

848 
848 


849 
849 

850 
850 

851 
S53 
85.^ 
856 
856 
888 

856 


859 
863 
864 
865 
865 
866 
866 
866 
868 
891 
893 


1 801 
1801 
1805 
1805 
1805 


Field 
Left. 
1876 
1855 

1856 

1816 


1884 
1851 

1853 
1888 

1873 

J875 
285.9 
1868 

1857 
ISBS 

1S72 


1868 
1864 
186S 

ism 
1866 
187S 
1870 
1867 

1 886 

ism 


1820 
1 81 5 

IRIO 
1812' 

1808 


Janz,  Lambert 
Tromp,  Pastian  ...  (2) 
Schmelen,  John  Henry  (2) 
El)ner,  John  Lion  Hart  (2) 
Helm,  Henry  ...         (2) 

Evans,  John  ...         (2) 

Hamilton, Robert  (missionary 

artisan) 
Read  (i),  J^rnes  ...  C2).  1 
Moffat,  D.D.,  Robert  (4) 
Sass.  Christopher  ...  (2) 
Hughes,  Isaac  (artisan,  after- 
wards missionary) 
Partlett,  John  ...    '     (2) 

Clark,  James  (catechist,  &c.) 

(2) 
Wright,  Peter  ...         (2) 

Mehill,  John  ...         (2) 

Baillie,  John  ...         (2) 

Edwards,  Rogers  ...  (2) 
Kolbe,  George  Augustus  (2) 
Atkinson,  Theophilus  (2) 
Schreiner,  Gottlob  ...  (2) 
Helmore,  HoUoway 
Livingston (e),  L.L.D., David 
Ross,  \\'illiam 

Solomon,  Edward   ...         (2) 
Ashton,  William 
Inglis,  Walter 

Thomson,  W.  Y.     ...         (2^^ 
Christie,  George      ...        (2) 
Vanderschalk,  C.  J. 
Mackenzie,  John     ...(2),  (4) 
Price  *,  Roger 
Good,  James 

Moffat,  John  Smith...        (4) 
Brown,  John 

Hepburn.  James  Davidson... 
Williams,*Char!es  ...        (2^, 
Wookey,  Alfred  John        (5) 
Gould,  Alfred  James 
Lloyd,  Edwin 
Williams,  Howard  ... 
Brown,  John  Tom   ... 
Reid,   John    Edwin     artisan 

assistant  missionary") 
Willough by, William  Charles 

^5) 


Mission 
Arr. 
806 


808 
814 
815 
Sit; 
816 

816 
816 

818 
820 

824 
825 

825 
82;; 
827 
830 
830 

831 
836 

838 

8.39 
841 

841 

842 

843 

843 

843 

849 
849 
858 
858 
865 
86:; 
866 
S70 
870 
870 
882 
884 
88:; 
886 

893 
S93 


Field 

Left. 

1816 

ISll 

1822 

1819 

1S24 

1816 

1861 
1820 
1870 
1827 

1870 
^833 

1828 
1843 
1831 
1836 
1856 

1837 
1847 
1842 
18G0 

i8.:;3 

1SG3 

1855 

1853 
1849 
1850 
18^1 
1882 


1879 

1893 

1877 


1896 


*  vStationed  at  Calcutta,  1830-32. 
'  Stationed  at  Bellary,  1836-48. 

^  Stationed  in  Jamaica  from  1863-5. 

*  Stationed  at  Canton,  1891-2. 

^  Appointed  in  1S75  to  vi>it  the  east  coast  of  Africa  with  the  view  of  making  pre- 
parations for  the  projected  missionary  e.\pcdition  to  Central  Africa.  In  1S77  he 
conducted  the  expedition  as  far  as  Mpwaj^wa,  and  resumed  work  at  Molcpolole 
in   1S79. 


8oo 


APPENDIX  I 


Mission  Field 
Arr.    Left. 


(4)  Matabeleland. 


(3) 


Moffat  >,  D.D.,  Robert 

Sykes,  William        

Thomas,  Thomas  Morgan  ... 
Mackenzie,  John     ...^^•,  (3) 
Moftat,  John  Smith...         (3) 
Thomson,  John  Poden       (5) 
Helm,  Charles  Daniel 
Elliott,  William  Allan 
Cockin,  Joseph 
Carnegie,  David 
Rees,  Bowen  ...        (5) 

Reed,  George  Cullen  Harvey 
Wilkerson,  George  James  (ar- 
tisan assistant  missionary) 

(5)  Central  Africa. 


1859 
1859 
1863 
1864 

1870 

1875 
1877 
1878 
1882 
1888 
1895 

1896 


1878 
1878 
1878 
1879 
1879 


1879 

1880 
1880 
1880 


78^2 
1882 
1882 


1887 
1870 
1864 
1865 
8176 

1892 

1880 


1888 
1881 
1878 
1879 
1881 


1882 

1881 

1881 
1881 


1884 


Mission 

Field 

Arr. 

Left. 

Willoughby,W^illiam  Charles 

(3) 

1882 

1883 

Brooks  *,  Arthur  (artisan)   . . . 

1883 

Jones,  David  Picton 

1883 

Sv/ann, Alfred  James  (marine 

department) 

1883 

1893 

Harris,  John 

1885 

1885 

Laird  \  L.R.C.P.,  &c.,  Frank 

(medical)  ... 

Rees,  Bovv^en           ...        (4) 

1885 

1885 

Carson,     B.Sc,     Alexander 

(engineer).. 

1886 

189e, 

Lea,  George  Henry. . . 

1886 

1887 

Tomory,  M.B.,   CM.,  John 

Kay  (medical)     ... 

1887 

1887 

Wright,  Robert  Stewart 

1887 

1890 

Draper,  W^alter  (artisan)     .. 

1888 

Hemans,  James  Henry  Em- 

manuel (schoolmaster)    ... 

1888 

Mather,       L.R.C.S.,       &c.. 

Charles  Benjamin  (medical) 

1888 

W'olfendale,  L.R.C.P.  and  S., 

George  Ashton  (medical) 

1890 

1892 

Southwell  ^"j  James  Phillips 

Nutt,  William  Harwood  (ar- 

tisan assistant  missionary) 

1892 

1896 

Purves,  Adam  Darling  (arti- 

san assistant  missionary). . . 

1892 

Thomas,  William    ... 

1893 

1896 

(6)  Lady  Missionaries. 

Sturrock,  E.  M.  H.  (Peel ton, 

Kafirland) 

1864 

1884 

Cockin,  Sara  Annie  (Kurn- 

man) 

1881 

1885 

Ellis  11,    Kate   Edith    (Mole- 

polole) 

Clarke^  Elbert  Sills 

Hore^,  Edward  Coode  (en- 
gineer, &c.) 

Hutley,  Walter  (artisan)    ... 

Thomson,  John  Boden       (4) 

Dodgshun  *,  Arthur  William 

Griffith,  William     

Mullens ',  D.D.,  Joseph 

Southon,  M.D.,  Ebenezer 
John  i^medical)    ... 

Palmer,  L.R.C.S.L,  &c., 
Walter  Stephen  (medical) 

Williams,  David 

Wookey,  Alfred  John        (3) 

I)ineen®,JosephHenry  (medi- 
cal)   

Dunn,  James  (artisan) 

Penry"',  John 

Shaw,  Thomas  Francis 

'  After  previous  visits  to  Matabeleland,  Dr.  Moffat  accompanied  Messrs.  Sykes 
and  Thomas  to  their  destination — Inyati — in  1859,  and  remained  with  them  until 
June,  i860. 

'  Proceeded  as  far  as  Kirasa  (1877)  a.id  returned  to  Zanzibar,  resigning  his  con- 
nection with  the  Society. 

'  Appointed  captain  of  the  John  Williams  in  1894. 

*  Started  with  the  first  expedition,  but,  volunteering  to  return  from  Kirasa  to 
Zanzibar  for  stores,  did  not  reach  Ujiji  until  March,  1879.    He  died  a  week  after  arrival. 

*  Voluntc-ered  to  accompany  the  second  expedition,  but  died  on  the  way,  about 
thirty  miles  from  Mpwapwa. 

*  Died  on  his  way  to  Ujiji,  July  25,  1883. 

'  pied  on  his  way  back  to  the  coast,  April  21,  1883. 

I  Shot  by  natives  near  the  coast,  January  21,  1889,  on  his  return  journey  to  England. 

*  Proceeding  via  Quilimane  and  advancing  inland,  hostilities  between  the  Portuguese 
and  the  natives  compelled  him  to  turn  back.  Arriving  in  England,  ill  health  led  him 
to  sever  his  connection  with  the  Society  (1885). 

Left  England,  1891.   His  health  failing  on  the  journey,  he  returned  home,  arriving 
the  same  year.  &  j  /  >  j  s 

Uft  England  December,  1893,  but  returned,  arriving  February,  1893. 


APPENDIX  I 


8oi 


Hargreave,      Ellen 
(Phalapye) 


Mission  Field 
Arr.    Left. 
Louisa '  I 

....1894I1S95 


Mission  Field 
Arr.    Left. 
YounjT,  Alice  (Phalapye)    ...  I  1894  ' 
Partridge, Mary  (Molepolole)  I  18^5  | 


(1) 


XII. 

MADAGASCAR. 

Mission  Field 
Arr.    Left. 


Bevan,  Thomas 

Jones,  David 

Griffiths,  David 

Brooks,  Thomas  (artisan)  ... 

Canham,  John  (artisan,  after- 
wards missionary!  XI 

Chick,  George  (artisan) 

Jeffreys,  John 

Rowlands,  Thomas  (artisan 
and  schoolmaster) 

Cameron,  James  (artisan)    ] 

Cummins,  John  (artisan)    ... 
Hovenden,  Charles  (printer) 
Johns  \  David 
Freeman,  Joseph  John 
Baker,  Edward    printer) 
Cousins,       M.A.,      William 

Edward 
Davidson,     M.D.,     Andrew 

i'medicaPr  ... 
Duffus,  John 

Ellis  2,  William        

Barrett,  John    printer) 
^'^KSj       Charles       Thomas 

Ilenry  (schoolmaster) 
Toy^,  Robert 
Kessler,  Julius 
Pearse,  Joseph 

Sibrce  *,  James    'architect, 
afterwards  ordained) 

Briggs,  Benjamin     ... 


1818 
1818 
1821 
1822 

1822 
1822 
1822 

1822 
1826 
186^ 
1826 
1826 
1826 
1827 
1828 

1862 

1862 
1862 
1862 
1862 

1862 
1862 
186.^ 
1863 
1863 
1870 
1883 
1864 


mm 
1838 
18.^4 

1822 

1834 
1835 
1825 

1S28 

183.5 
1876 
182S 
182Ci 
1843 
183:; 
1836 


186S 
1863 
1865 
1885 

1864 
1879 
1865 

1867 

1877 


Cousins,  George 
Hartley,       M'^.A.,      Richard 
Griffiths 

Pool,  William  (builder) 

Jukes,  Charles 

Barker, James  '^schoolmaster) 

Richardson,  James  ... 

Attwell,  William     

Forster^  M.R.C.S,,  Edward 
Wood  (medical)  ... 

Matthews,  Thomas  Trotter 

Montgomery,  William 

Moss,  Charles  Frederick     ... 

Peake,  Philip  George 

Wills,  James 

Brockway,  Thomas...        XI 

Houlder,  John  .Vlder 

Shaw, George  Andrew(school- 
master)       ...  ...  V 

Stribling,  Edwin  Haylock 

Baron.  Richard 

Beveridge  °,  Thomas  George 

Grainge,  Henry  William    ... 

Thome,  James  Cross   super- 
intendent of  schools) 

Lord, Thomas  schoolmaster 

Parker,    >LR.C.S.,     George 
William    medical) 

Peill,  Jeremiah 

Pickersgill,  William  Clayton 

Riordan,John 

Rogers ',  Thomas    ... 

Cowan,  William  Deans 

Price,  Charles  Thomas 

Wesley,  John  Thomas 


Mission  Field 
Arr.  Left. 
1864 


1864 
186; 
1866 
186S 
1869 
1870 


1870 
1S70 
1S70 
1870 
1870 
1871 
1871 

1871 
1S71 
1S72 
1872 
1872 

1872 
1873 

1873 
1S73 
1873 
1873 
'873 
1874 
1875 
1S75 


1883 

1 868 

1880 

1873 
1874 


1887 
1SS2 

1898 
1895 


'893 


1877 
1882 


1875 

1882 
1878 
1877 

i.sr.-, 


*  His  name  was  Jones,  but  was  changed  to  Johns,  to  distinguish  him  from  the  David 
Jones  who  arrived  in  the  island  in  1818.  Although  Mr.  Johns  had  to  kave  the  island 
in  1836  owing  to  the  queen's  edict  against  Christianity,  the  remainder  of  his  life  was 
('evoted  to  the  interests  of  Malagasy  Christians  and  refugees,  lie  revisited  the  island 
three  times,  and  on  the  hnal  visit  died  at  Nosibc. 

2  Mr.  Ellis  had  already  visited  the  island  in  1S53,  1854,  and  1S56. 
^  Died  on  the  voyage  to  England,  18S0. 

*  Appointed  to  Vizagapatam  in  1879;  returned  to  England,  1S80. 

*  Left  England  1H70,  but  was  unable  to  proceed  Jurther  than  Mauritius  owing  to 
Mrs.  Forster's  illness. 

*  Wrecked  on  his  voyage  to  England  (1877),  when  he  and  Mrs.  Bevcridgc,  v  ith 
two  of  their  children,  were  drowned. 

*  Wrecked  on  his  voyage  to  England  (1S77),  when  Mrs.  Rogers  and  their  only 
child  were  drowned. 

I.  3F 


802 


APPENDIX  II 


Rowlands,  Thomas  ... 
Huckett,  Arthur  Samuel 
Taylor,  James 
Caj)sey,  B.A.,  Thomas 

Collins,  Charles 


Johnson,  Henry  Theophilus 
l^ennett,  John  Robert 
Taylor,  Edward 
Flockhart,  John 
llaile.  John  Henry  ... 
Mackay,       James       George 

^medical)  ... 
Wilson.  Alfred  William 
Ashwell,  Stowell  (printer) 
Hitch,  Robert 
Huckett,  Walter      ... 
Roberts,  Robert 
Brockwav,Thomas  Frederick 

Mitchell    ... 
Rees,  David... 


1886 
1886 
1887 
1889 
1889 
1890 

1891 
1891 


1890 


Mission  Field 

Arr.    Left. 

1879 

1880 

1880 

1881 

18S1 

1891 

1881 

J882 

1882 

1886 

1886 


1886 


1883 

18S7 
1888 


1891 


1893 


Edmonds,  William  John     ... 
Sharman,  B.A.,  B.D.,  James 
Jones,  Edwin  Pryce 
Peake,  L.R.C.P,&c., George 

Henry  (medical)... 
Green,  David  Davies 


(2)  Lady  Missionaries. 

Irvine  ^,  TsTargaret     ... 
Milne '^,  Margaret    ... 
Ronald,  Jane  Emily 
Bliss,  Mary  Theresa 
Cockin,  Mary  Amelia 
Craven,  Edith 
Fredoux,  Agnes  Martha 
Brockway,  Amy  Easter 
Foxall,  EUea  Catherine 
Coombs,  Annie  Elizabeth 


Mission  Field 
Arr.  Lep. 
1892 


1892 
1893 

1893 
1894 


1865 
1865 
1869 
1876 
1879 
188^ 
1886 
1^92 
1892 
1893 


1870 


*  Widow  of  the  Rev.  A.  Irvine  (XI\     Married,  1865.  Rev.  Joseph  Pearse  (XII), 
2  Married,  1865,  Mr.  J.  Barrett  (XII). 

*^*  For  native  teachers  see  Index. 


APPENDIX    II 

Letter  from  \V.  H.  Wills,  Esq.,  on  the  Origination  of  the 
London  Missionary  Society. 

F:ast  Court,  St.  Laurence-on-Sea, 
Dear  Sir,  Thanet, /'g^J.  12,  1895. 

I  have  no  papers  whatever  relating  to  the  meeting  at  Dr.  Rylands', 
'The  Baptist  Academy,'  Bristol,  in  1794.  Tht  facts,  as  I  have  often 
lieard  them  from  my  father,  INIr.  William  Day  Wills,  are  these: — My 
grandfather,  Mr.  H.  O.  Wills,  was  asked  by  Dr.  Rylands  to  come  in 
1794  to  the  College  to  meet  some  friends,  and  hear  *  an  interesting 
letter  just  received  from  Wm.  Carey.'  Agreeing  to  do  so,  my  grand- 
father asked  permission  to  bring  his  friend  Dr.  Bogue,  who  was  then  the 
'  su])ply'  at  the  Tabernacle,  of  which  my  grandfather  was  the  'manager.' 
On  their  way  home  from  Dr.  Rylands'  my  grandfather  said  to  Dr.  Bogue, 
'  Why  could  not  we  have  a  society  of  the  same  kind  .? '  Dr.  Bogue  as- 
sented, and  at  his  friend's  suggestion  saw,  on  his  return  to  London, 
Mr.  Robert  Steven  and  other  friends,  and  from  these  conversations, 
I  believe,  grew  the  Castle  and  Falcon  meeting  and  the  L.  M.  S. 

No  account  of  the  above  facts  exists  in  MS.,  or  I  would  with  pleasure 
lend  them  to  you, 

I  am,  Yours  very  faithfully, 
The  Rev.  R.  Lovett.  W.  H.  Wills. 


INDEX 


=^^*  Names 


of  missionaries  of  the  L.  M.  S.  are  p:  iiited  in  italics. 


Abel,  Charles  William  (New 

Guinea\  466,  467. 
Aberdeen,  Lord,  his  treaties 
with      France     respecting 
Tahiti,  &c.,  342. 
Academy   for   the   children 
of  South  Sea  missionaries  ; 
see  South  Sea  Academy. 
Act  of  Parliament :  for  the 
emancipation  of  Hottentot 
slaves,   554  :    for  the  pre- 
vention of  offences  on  the 
borders    of  Cape  Colony, 
561  :     (Cape    Parliament) 
Missionar}'Institutions  Bill, 
577>  578- 
Adamu,      native      teacher, 
settled    in    New    Guinea, 
441,  444  :  his  death,  445. 
Afareaitu  (Eimeo>,  renamed 
Griffin    Town,    215,    217, 
223,  243,  296,  312,  319. 
Africa  :     proposal    of    Dr. 
Haweis  for  a  mission,  45  ; 
79,  105,  107. 
Africa,  Centrnl  :  history  of 
the  mission,  649-670  ;  first 
expedition,  650-653  ;  diffi- I 
culties    of  the  journey  to  I 
Ujiji,  650,  651  ;  deaths  of 
Thomson  and   Dodijshun, 
^.52,  653;    second  exp:;di- 
tion,   654-656;    death    of 
Dr.    Mullens,    655 ;    third 
expedition, 656, 657;  death 
of     D.      Williams,     657; 
fourth     expedition,     658 ; 
death  of  Dr.  Southon,  661  ; 
reception  given  to  mission- 
aries   by    Mirambo,    652, 
656,661;  deaths  of  Penry, 
Dineen,   and    Dunn,   662  ; 
fifth  expedition,  662  ;  sta- 
tions   opened,    656,    662. 
665.    667  ;    translation    of 
the  Scriptures.  668  ;    bap- 
tism of  first  convert.  669; 
tangible  results  of  mission, 
669  ;   co>t  of  mission,  and 
number  of  converts,  669 ; 


Africa,  Central — 
mistakes    in    inception    of 
mission, 670.  (.9^^Urambo, 
Mtowa,       Ujiji,      Kavala, 
Fwambo,  and  Niamlcolo.) 

Africa,  South ;  see  Kafir-;, 
Kaffraria,  Hottentots,  Bush- 
men.  Institutions,  Nama- 
quas,  Griqua  Town,  Bech- 
wanas,  Matabele,  Cape 
Colony.  &c. 

Africa,  West ;  see  Foulahs. 

Africaner,  his  cruelties,  523  ; 
Warm  Bath  mission  sta- 
tion, 527,  530,  531  ;  attacks 


Albrecht,  C — 
a  station  at  Warm  Bath, 
527;  marries  Miss  Burg- 
man,  530 ;  death  of  his 
wife,  531  ;  works  at  Kha- 
miesberg,  532. 

.\lday,  J.,  one   of  the  first 
Directors   of  the   Society. 

.^9.  49- 
Allen,    Dr.    (Madagascar,. 

772. 
Alliot,  Mr..  25. 
Ambatonakanga    memorial 

church,  719,  720,  722,  751, 

753- 


Khamiesberg,    531  ;    goes  I  Ambohipotsy          memorial 

with  Moffat  to  Cape  Town,  church,  719,  721. 

540,  5 84  ;  agrees  to  remove  America,    North,   proposed 

eastward,       584;       brings  mission  to  west  coast,  104. 

Moffat's  goods  to  Griqua  Amj^amarinana      memorial 

Town,  584;  death,  5S4.  church,  719. 

Africaner's  kraal,  537,  538;  Amparibe,  727. 
Moffat's  arrival,  582,  583,  \  Anderson,        Bartholomew 


Aimata,  daughter  of  Pomare 
n,  20S,  225,  230.  {See 
also  Pomare  Vahine  IV.) 

Aitutaki  (Hervey  Islands)  : 
visit  of  John  Williams, 
and  settlement  of  two 
native  teachers  of  Raiatea, 
253,  254,  262,  263  ;  settle- 
ment of  other  native 
teachers,  257,  262  ;  visit 
of  R.  Bourne,  274;  visited 
aijain  by  Williams,  280, 
282,  2S3  ;  services  of  Henry 
Koyle,  364,  365,  368; 
progress  of  mission-work, 
365-36S  ;  native  teachers, 
366,  367  ;  disturbance  by 
shipwrecked  crew.  366. 

Akatangi,  native  teacher  at 
Erromanga,  409. 

Albrccht,  Abraham  (S. 
Africa"),  527 :  description  of 
Great  Xamaqualand,  538, 
529  ;  death,  530. 

Albrecht,  Christian  (S. 
Africa;,  515,  517;    opens 

3  ^'   ^ 


\    Ebenezer  (S.  Africa),  57S. 

Anderson^  William  (S. 
Africa),  493,  517,  522; 
settles  at  Rich  Fountain, 
523  ;  removes  to  Kok's 
Kraal,  524  ;  f<irms  a  station 
at  Griqua  Town  i^Klaar 
Water),  525,  526,  537: 
his  labours  at  Pacaltsdorp, 
and  death,  562. 

Andriamamanga,  nativi- 
teacher  (Madagascar),  777. 

Aiulrlambelo,  native  pastor 
(Madagascar),  726,  727, 
741.  776. 

Andrlanalvoravelona,  native 
teacher  (Madagascar^,  776. 

Anederea,  native  teacher  ol 
Raroloiiga,  settled  in  New 
Guinea,  441.  444,  446. 

Aneiteum  (New  ilebrides\ 
380,  391,  405  ;  arrival  of 
native  teachers,  406  ;  work 
accomi'lished  by  Messrs. 
Gcddie,  Powell,  and  Inglis. 
406.  407  ;  slate  i>f  the 
mis:>lon  iu  1859,  4^7- 


8o4 


INDEX 


Antananarivo,     676 ;      first 
schools   and    chapel,    and 
lust  sermon  in  Malagasy, 
677,  67S  ;    persecution   of 
Christians,  703  sqq.;  open- 
ing of  the  Palace  Church, 
739-743.     (6V^  a/j^  Mada- 
gascar.) 
Antsihanaka  province  (Ma- 
dagascar),   mission  -  work 
in,  761,  762. 
Apia,  381,  382,  394- 
Apia  Protestant  School,  394. 
Apolo    (i),  native    teacher 

settled  at  Futuna,  405. 
Apolo   (2),   native   teacher 

at  Aneiteum,  406. 
Arbousset,    M.,    Protestant 

pastor  m  Tahiti,  335. 
Ardill,     Einogene     (Raro- 

tonga\  359.  360. 
Armitage,   Elijah    (Eimeo, 

&c.),  219,  228. 
Arreoies,  the,    a  society  in 
Tahiti  and  elsewhere,  135, 
136,  141,  148,  269. 
Arrowroot,  manufacture  of, 

at  Raiatea,  272. 
Artisan    missionaries,    218, 

219.  594,  682. 
Arundel,  John,  HomeSecre- 
tarv  of  the  Society  (18 19- 
1846),  92. 
Asia,  proposal  for  mission 
to,  104. 

Association  of  ministers  for 
missions  conference,  1 2  sqq. 
Ashton,  Williafu  (S.  Africa), 
arrives  at  Kuruman  (1843), 
503  ;  effort  to  train  native 
teachers,  594  ;  services  in 
revising  the  translation  of 
the  Scriptures,  595,  601  ; 
translates  Line  tipon  Line, 
595  ;  on  encroachments  of 
the  Boers,  598;  his  re- 
lations with  Moffat,  599- 
601  ;  differences  with  J.  S. 
Moffat,  607  ;  his  work  at 
Karkly,644. 645 ;  his  death, 
64.V 

Atafu    (Tokelau    Islands), 
420;     mission- work,    421, 
422. 
Atgcr,  M .,  French  Protestant 

pastor  at  Tahiti,  335. 
Atiu  ^Hervey  Islands;:  bad 
treatment  of  native  teach- 
ers sent  by  Orsmond,  259, 
263;  visit  of  John  Wil- 
liama,  259,  263 ;  conver- 
won   of  Koma   the  chief, 


Atiu— 
259,  263,  264  ;  conversion 
of  the  island,  260 ;  and 
visit  of  R.  Bourne,  274; 
282,  367  ;  work  of  Papeiha 
and  Rupe,  368,  369  ;  work 
of  Krause,  and  visits  of  W. 
Gill,  369;  the  last  fifty 
years,  369,  370. 

Atkinson,  Theophilus  (S. 
Africa,  &c.\  688,  690. 

Atley,  Henry.  16. 

Attwell,  Williatn  (Mada- 
gascar), 737,  757. 

Audley,  J.,  33  ;  one  of  the 
first  Directors  of  the  So- 
ciety, 39. 

Auna,  native  teacher  of 
Eimeo,  345. 

Austral  Islands;  see  Rurutu, 
Rimatara,  Rapa,  Ravavai, 
and  Tubuai. 

Australasian  Church  of  Eng- 
land Mission,  468. 

Australasian  Wesleyan  Mis- 
sionary Society,  468. 

Authorities,  42,  113,  145, 
193,    237,  289,   305,    325, 

35 r,  403- 
Auxiliaries  of  the  Society:  in 
Scotland  and  abroad,  75 
sqq.;  in  London  and  the 
provinces,  81  sqq.  ;  at 
Cape  Town,  77,  514;  in 
Madagascar,  754. 

Backhouse,  S.  Africa,  593. 

Bahurutse,  the,  589,  596. 

Baillie,  John  (S.  Africa), 
588,  589. 

Baker,  Edward  (Madagas- 
car), 682,  687,  689,  697, 
698,  700. 

Baker,  William  (Loyalty 
Islands),  413. 

Baker's  Coftee-House,  first 
meeting  of  ministers  at,  13. 

Bakhatlas,  the,  593,596,610. 

Bakker,  Meivs  Jon  (S. 
Africa),  537. 

Bakwaina,  the,  610,  611. 

Bamangwato,  the,  601,  634 
sqq. 

Bampton  Island,  teachers 
left  at,  445,  446. 

Bangwakelse,  the,  596,  647. 

Banks  Island,  422. 

Baptist  Missionary  Society, 
the  first  great  missionary 
agency  of  modern  times,  4  ; 
its  founding  at  Kettering, 
and    the    appointment    of 


Baptist  Miss.  Society — 
Carey  and   John  Thomas 
at   Leicester    to    mission- 
work  in  India,  5;  8,  21. 

Barff,  Charles  (Huahine, 
&c.),  214,  217,  242,  265  ; 
accompanies  John  Wil- 
liams to  Hervey  Islands, 
282;  285,  319,  340,  341, 
344  ;  his  long  services  to 
the  Society  and  death,  345  ; 
letter  describing  Tute,  na- 
tive teacher,  345,  346 ; 
visit  to  Austral  Islands, 
346-348  ;  351  ;  his  visit 
to  Sam.oa  in  1834,  373, 
374 ;  accompanies  mis- 
sionaries appointed  to 
Samoa  (1836),  375  ;  prints 
part  of  the  Samoan  Bible, 

384. 
Barf,  John  (Tahiti,   &c.), 

33o»  332,  334;  joins  his 
father  at  Huahine,  and 
afterwards  settles  at  Ta- 
haa,  344;   351. 

Barker,  George  (S.  Africa) , 
.S37.  .^63,  585. 

Barker,  James  (Madagas- 
car), 722,  767,  768. 

Barkly  West,  633,  634; 
W\  Ashton's  work,  644. 645 . 

Barnden,   George  (Samoa), 

374.  37.=^- 

Baron,  Richard  (Madagas- 
car), 737,  778.^ 

Bartering  by  missionaries  ; 
see  Trading  of  mission- 
aries. 

Bartlett,  John  (S.  Africa), 

563- 

Bathoen,  chief  of  the  Ba- 
ngwaketse,  641,  644. 

Bathurst,  Lord,  539. 

Bavian's  Kloof,  488,  500. 

Baxter,  Dr.  (Church  Mis- 
sionary Society),  of  Mpwa- 
pwa,  655. 

Baxter,  Miss,  presents  the 
Ellengowan  to  the  New 
Guinea  Mission,  446. 

Baxter  River,  447. 

Beat  tie,  John,  64. 

Beaufort,  568,  576. 

Beaufoy,  Mr.,  33. 

Bechwanas,  533,  534,  569; 
Moffat's  first  visit,  584; 
described  by  Moffat,  585, 
586,  589 ;  objections  to 
native  teachers,  594 ;  re- 
proof of  the  white  man, 
594;    enriching    the   soil. 


INDEX 


C05 


Bechwanas  — 

597  ;  lose  respect  for  white 
men  owing  to  the  Boers, 

598  ;  history  of  the  mission 
1,1860-1895),  632  -648  ;  ex- 
tent and  features  of  their 
country',  632,  633;  educa- 
tion, 633  ;  tribal  relations, 
633  >  proclamation  of  a 
British  Protectorate,  638. 
{See  also  Lattakoo,  Kuru- 
man,  Taung,  Phalapye, 
Kanye,Molepolole,Barkly, 
Shoshong,  Likhatlong,  Bo- 
rigelong,  and  Kolobeng.) 

I^eck,  Thomas,  16. 

Bellerophon,  donation  to 
L.  M.  S.  from  seamen  of,  80. 

Bengal,  Carey's  work  in,  6. 

Bennet,  G.,  one  of  a  depu- 
tation from  L.  M.  S.  to  the 
South  Seas,  227,  231,  233 
sqq. ;  271,  274,  301  note; 
one  of  a  deputation  to 
Madagascar,  683. 

Bennett,  Dr.,  67,  73,  375. 

Bennett,  Sir  Risdon,  67. 

Bottom,  Clark  Canada}, 64. 

Best,  Thomas,  16,  25. 

Beswicky  7  hovias  (New 
Guinea),  459. 

liethany  (Great  Namaqua- 
land),  mission  at,  537,538. 

liethelsdorp :  its  founding 
by  Vanderkemp,  498-500; 
hostility  of  Boers,  504,  505, 
545>  547  ;  converts,  505  ; 
the  people's  subsistence, 
506;  Ullbricht  and  Tromp, 
506  ;  appointment  of  Read 
as  minister,  507 ;  lack 
of  agricultural  produce, 
507 ;  result  of  census 
(1809),  508  ;  arrival  of 
"\Vimmer,  Pacalt,  and  Smit, 
509  ;  visit  of  John  Camp- 
bell, 533  ;  number  of  Hot- 
tentots at  the  settlement  in 
1818,  536,  538,  540;  de- 
scribed by  Dr.  Philip  ns  a 
'sl.ive lodge,' 547;  improve- 
ments under  Dr.  Philip  and 
J.  Kitchingman,  54S,  549; 
577,  578.  {See  also  '  Insti- 
tutions,' missionary.) 

Bethesda  (Orlam's  Kraal  , 
mission  station  at,  537, 538. 

Betsileo,  736,  737,  73^,  751 ; 
mission-work  in,  756-761. 

IJetsimisaraka  (Madagas- 
car), mission-work  in,  762  - 
764. 


Bcvan,  Thotnas  (Madagas- 
car), 105,  674. 

Bcveridge,  Sidney  Alexan- 
der (Samoa),  397. 

Beveridge,  Thomas  George 
(Madagnscar),  737. 

Bible,  the,  translation  of: 
Tahiti,  &c.,  203,  204,  205, 
215,  216,  245,  274,  280; 
Henry  Nott's  translation 
(1835),  300;  difficulties  in 
the  work,  301  303  ;  Nott 
presents  a  copy  of  his 
Tahitian  Bible  to  Queen 
Victoria,  303  ;  the  revision 
prepared  by  Howe  and 
others,  333,  334;  revision 
prepared  by  J.  L.  Green  and 
others  (1884),  337  :  Raro- 
tongan  translation,  352, 
356-359  :  Samoan  transla- 
tion, 386-38S:  New  Guinea 
translation,  459,  463,  467  : 
Kafir  translation,  567  :  Af- 
rica—Sechwana,  588,  592, 
595,599,601:  Kimambwe, 
668  :  Malagasy,  677,  678, 
680,    685,    686,  697,  722, 

773-779- 
Bibles  and  Testaments,  dis- 
tribution in  France,  94,  95. 
Bicknell,    Henry     (Tahiti, 
&c.),    64,    127,    151,    153, 
164,   166,    167,   193,   195, 
196,     213,     222;    baptizes 
Pomare,   223;    his   death, 
225;  his  devotion  to  mis- 
sion-work, 225  ;  293,339. 
Bicknell,  G.,  218,  219. 
Bird,  Peter  Goold  (Samoa), 
421. 

Hlaauwberg,  battle  of,  487. 
Blantyre  Mission,  662. 
Hligh,  Captain,  118,  138. 
!  Blink  Klip,  589. 
I  Bliss,  Alary  Theresa  (Mada- 
I    gascar),  768,  769. 
I  Blonifield    Street    premises 
I    of    L.  M.  S.,    first    Board 
1    meeting  at,  374,  375. 
!  Bloomfield,/Jczali-el^'S\a\iz.) , 

105. 
Blossom,  Thomas  (Tahiti, 
&c.),  219,  228;  adverse 
opinion  as  to  the  growth 
of  religion  among  the 
people.  294. 

Podcn,  James  ^of  Hanley), 

25 ;      one     of     the      first 

1  )irectors()ftiie  Society,  39. 

Hoera    .New  Guinea;,  416, 

460. 


Boers :  their  ill-usage  of 
Hottentots,  Bushmen,  and 
Kafirs,  493,  494,  498,  504, 
545046, 5.=i2, 55^;  hostility 
to  Vanderkemj),  494,  4Q5, 
496,  497  ;  they  attack 
Graaff  Reinet,  497  ;  their 
mioration  leads  to  the  for- 
mation of  the  Orange  Free 
State  and  the  Transvaal, 
561  ;  treatment  of  the 
Bechwanas,  594 ;  their 
attempts  to  exterminate 
native  tribes,  596  ;  their 
destruction  of  Kolobeng 
and  other  mission-stations, 
596,  6i6  ;  increasing  hos- 
tility to  mission -work, 
598 ;  hostile  designs 
checked  by  Sir  George 
Grey,  602,  620. 

Bogue,  Dr.  David,  consults 
with  Mr.  Steven  and  Mr. 
Hey  at  Whilefield's  Taber- 
nacle, Bristol,  on  the  best 
way  of  arousing  interest 
in  mission-work,  5;  his 
article  in  the  Evangelical 
Magazine  on  mission  enter- 
prise, 5-10;  13,  14,  33 ; 
preaches  at  Tottenham 
Court  Road  Chapel  after 
the  formation  of  the  new 
missionary  society,  34-37  ; 
appointed  one  of  the  first 
Directors  of  the  Society. 
39 ;  44,  45  ;  recommends 
the  institution  of  training 
seminaries  for  missionaries, 
51  ;  his  readiness  to  com- 
mence a  mission  in  India 
with  Mr.  Haldane,  55,  56; 
appointed  tutor  to  mission- 
ary students,  66,  73 ;  his 
ideas  of  the  qualifications 
of  missionaries,  66 ;  his 
academy  at  Gosport,  67, 
73 ;  missionaries  trained 
by  him,  74  ;  writes  a  pre- 
face for  the  French  transla- 
tion of  the  N.  T.,  94;  one 
of  a  deputation  to  France, 
94;  100,  102,  104. 

Bt)hn,  Dr.  Church  Mission- 
ary Society,  Cent.  Africa^ 
O61. 

Borabora:  evangelistic  visit 
of  Nott  and  Hay  ward,  191  ; 
renunciation  of  idolatry'. 
212  ;  arrival  of  Piatt,  224. 
274 ;  arrival  of  people 
from    Kurutu,    250,    251  ; 


8o6 


INDEX 


Korabora — 

departure  ofOrsmond,  274; 
formation  of  a  temperance 
society,  340;  native  de- 
terioration, 343. 

Borchgrevinck,  Dr.  (Mada- 
gascar), 772. 

liorgen,  M.   (Madagascar), 

776. 

Horigelong.  593,  612,  634. 

I'osjeveld,  mission  at,  575. 

liotha's  Farm,  settlement 
formed  by  Vanderkemp, 
497,  498  ;  attacked  by  ma- 
rauding Hottentots,  500 ; 
removal  of  the  settlement 
to  Bethelsdorp,  502. 

Bounty,  the,  118. 

Bourke,  Sir  R.,  issues  an 
Order  in  Council  for  im- 
proving the  condition  of 
Hottentots,  550,  553. 

Bourne,  Robert  (Tahaa, 
&c.),  214,  217,  222,  230, 
241,  243 ;  accompaniesjohn 
\Villiams  to  the  Hervey 
Islands,  257,  263  ;  revisits 
the  Hervey  Islands,  274; 
leaves  Tahaa,  274,  281. 

Boivell,  Daniel  (Tongata- 
bu},  127,  134;  murdered, 
171,  172. 

Briggs,  Benjaviin  (Mada- 
gascar), 722,  727. 

Briggs,  Miss,  769. 

Brisiol,  meeting  at,  5. 

British  and  Foreign  Bible 
Society,  founding  of,  41, 
90;  III  note,  216;  MS. 
of  part  of  Tahitian  Bible 
in  library  of,  301  note  i  ; 
prints     Nott's      Tahitian 

l^ible,  303;  351,358,387, 
388,  592,  773,  774. 

iiritish  and  Foreign  School 
Society,  in  note. 

British  South  Africa  Com- 
pany,629,  630,631,  642  sq. 

Brock-way,  Thomas  (Mada- 
gascar, &c.;,  737,  757;  on 
misbion-work  at  Ambosi- 
tra,  759. 

Brooks,  Arthur  (Central 
Africa),  658,  664. 

Brooks,  Thomas  (Madagas- 
car), 677. 

Brooksbank,  Joseph,  13,  14, 
^5>  I7»  24;  appointed  one 
of  the  first  Directors  of  the 
Society,  39  149,  1.^0. 

Broomhall,  Beujatnin  (Ta- 
^»l';,  127;  attacked  by  na- 


Brooffihall,  B. — 
tives,  150;  151,  163,  164; 
excommunicated,  167;  176. 

Brown,  Mr.,  Wesleyan  mis- 
sionary of  Samoa,  382. 

Broivn,  John  (S.  Africa), 
608  ;  his  work  at  Taung, 
645,  646. 

Brown,  J.  C,  pastor  of  Union 
Chapel,  Cape  Town,  568, 
569. 

Brown,  John  Tom  (S.  Af- 
rica), 607,  608. 

Broivnlee,  John  (vS.  Africa), 
241,  566,  567,592,  602. 

Bruat,  M.,  French  Governor 
of  Tahiti,  318,  322,  323. 

Bnichner,  Gottlob  (Java), 
105. 

Brunton,  Henry  (Edinburgh 
Society),  missionary  to  the 
Foulahs,  479,  4S0, 

Buchanan,  Ebenezcr  (Sa- 
moa), 319,  375. 

Buchanan,  John  (Tongata- 
bu),  47,  127,  134,  17^. 

Budget  Dispatches  of  L.  M.S. 
to  South  Africa,  576  ;  to 
Madagascar,  722  sqq. 

Buenos  Ayres,  projected 
mission  to,  104. 

Btillen,  Thomas  (Samoa), 
380. 

Burder,  Dr.  George,  ad- 
dress on  the  proposed  for- 
mation of  a  new  missionary 
society,  18-24;  25,  30; 
mission  sermon  by,  32  ;  ap- 
pointed one  of  the  first 
Directors  of  the  Society, 
39;  49,  82;  Secretary  of 
the  Society  (1803-1827), 
92  ;  his  article  on  '  Welsh 
Indians,'  102;  203,  241. 

Bushmen:  mission  to  them, 
488 ;  origin  oi  the  mission, 
518,  519;  their  habits  and 
customs,  520,  521;  mission- 
work  of  Kicherer,  Edwards, 
and  Kramer,  522  ;  aban- 
donment of  the  Zak  River 
station,  525 ;  evangeliza- 
tion of  numbers,  532. 

Buzacott,  Aaron  (Raro- 
tonga),  280,  281,  283; 
forms  first  Christian  church 
at  Avarua,  352  ;  establishes 
a  training  institution  ,  for 
preachers,  352  ;  his  share  in 
Bible  translation, 357,  358  ; 
'model    missionary,'   359; 

death,   359;    visits    Samoa 


Busacott,  A. — 
with  C.  Barff  (1834),  373, 

374  ;  accompanies  mission- 
aries to  stations  in  Samoa 
(1836), 375;  visits  NewHeb- 
rides,  405. 

Byrn,  Captain,  102. 

Caledon  (town),  537. 

Caledon  Institution,  537, 
538,  540,  568  ;  work  of  H, 
and  D.  J.  Helm  at,  568. 

Caledon,  Lord,  Governor  of 
CapeColony,5io,5ii,53i; 
issues  proclamation  for  pro- 
tection of  Hottentots,  545. 

Camden,  the,  312,  340,  352, 

375  sqq.,  405,  408,  471. 
Cameron,  Ja7)ies  (Mada- 
gascar), 681,  688, 690,698; 
revisits  Madagascar  with 
W.  Ellis,  709;  superintends 
building  of  memorial 
churches,  719,  721  ;  757. 

Cameron,  Miss,  768. 

Campbell,  John,  242  ;  visits 
S.  Africa  as  a  deputation 
of  the  L.  M.  S.,  533,  534, 
584 ;  attacked  by  G.  Thorn, 
535  5  second  visit  to  African 
stations,  536,  539,  540. 

Campbell,  R.,  one  of  first 
Directors  of  Society,  39,49. 

Canada,  mission  in,  64,  104. 

Canliam,  John  (Madagas- 
car), 677,  680,  688,  690. 

Cape  Colony:  histoiy,  487, 
501,  506;  influence  of 
missionsin  its  development, 
503  ;  trial  of  colonists  for 
crueltiesto  Hottentots, 51 2, 
513;  opposition  of  colonists 
to  missionary  effort,  534; 
two  classes  of  mission- 
workers,  534,  535  ;  work  of 
G.  Thom  among  soldiers, 
and  his  attacks  on  Camp- 
bell, Read,  and  others, 
535,  536  ;  effect  of  Lord 
Caledon's  proclamation  on 
the  condition  of  the  Hot- 
tentots, 545 ;  tax  levied 
upon  Hottentots,  546  ; 
opposition  to  the  Bethels- 
dorp  Institution,  547  ; 
action  for  libel  against 
Dr.  Philip,  550 ;  Sir  R. 
Bourke's  Ordinance  in 
favour  of  Hottentots,  550  ; 
abolition  of  slavery,  554  ; 
Kafir   War,.  557  ;     arrival 

of    emigrants,     557  ;     the 


INDEX 


807 


Cape  Colony — 
Royal  Commissioners'  im- 
provements :i824),  557; 
attempt  to  renew  the  op- 
pression of  natives,  558  ; 
Lord  Glenelg's  dispatch 
''1836),  558,  559;  mig[ra- 
tion  of  many  Boers,  561  ; 
change  of  Government 
policy,  567  ;  relinquish- 
ment of  mission-woik, 
573  sqq.  {see  also  '  Institu- 
tions,'missionary';  results 
of  past  missiun-work,  581. 

Cape  Town,  formation  of 
an  auxiliary  to  theL.M.S  , 
77,  514;  488;  opening  of 
Union  Chapel  and  mission 
buildings,  541  ;  number  of 
slaves  there  in  1820,  542. 

Cape  York,  440,  442,  445. 

Cappe,  George  (Foulahs), 
479,  480. 

Caps;y,  b.  a.,  TJwmas  (Mada- 
gascar), 767. 

Capture  of  missionaris?;  by 
the  French,  60  ?c,q. 

Carbonelle,  Captain,  60. 

Carey,  William,  issues  pam- 
phlet on  conversion  of 
heathen,  and  preaches  at 
Nottingham  on  missionary 
effort,  4  ;  set  apart  for  mis- 
sion-work, 5  ;  21,  117. 

Carnegie,  David  S.  Africa), 
629;  on  the  prospects  of 
mission-work  among  the 
Matabele,  629,  630. 

Carson,  B.sc,  Alexander 
(Cent.  Africa),  663,  664. 

Caspian  Sea,  proposed  mis- 
sion to  north  shore  of,  102. 

Castle  and  Falcon  Inn, 
meetings    at,    13,    14,    18, 

24.  38,  43,  45,  48,  49- 

Catholic  missions,  S,  11, 
360  ;  at  Loyalty  Islands, 
411,  412, 414,  416  ;  in  New 
Caledonia,  431  ;  at  Yule 
Island,  464  ;  in  Madagas- 
car, 714,  740,  769,  783. 

Catholics  in  Tahiti ;  see 
French,  the,  in  Tahiti. 

Central  Giils'  School, 
Pajjauta  (Samoa,  395. 

Ceylon,  mission  in,  104. 

Chalmers,  James  (New 
Guinea,  &c.),  383  ;  work 
at  Karotonga.  353,  359; 
describes  the  scttmg  apart 
of  Karotongan  teachers  for 
New    Guinea     44I,    449; 


Chalmers,  J. — 
appointment  to  the  New 
Guinea  Mission,  452,  453  ; 
early  experiences  in  New 
Guinea,  and  narrow  escapes 
from  death,  454-458;  opens 
stations  at  the  Leocadie 
Islands,  458;  explores  Gulf 
of  Papua,  459  ;  deprecates 
exaggerated  reports  of  mis- 
sion-work, 460  ;  alludes  to 
mercenary  motives  of  pro- 
fessed converts,  460 ;  pur- 
chases the  steam-launch 
Miro,  46S, 

Charter,  George  (Raiatea), 
312;  on  the  condition  of 
the  young  people  of  Tahaa 
in  1839,  314;  340:  corrects 
misstatements  of  Directors 
regarding  French  rule,  cha- 
racter of  Tahitians,  343. 

Cheshunt  College ;  see 
Countess  of  Huntingdon's 
College. 

Chick,  George  (Madagascar), 
677,  679,  690,  698,  702. 

Children  of  missionaries, 
grants  for  the  support  of, 
86 ;  baneful  influences 
around  them  at  Tahiti, 
296.  {See  also  South  Sea 
Academy  and  tender 
Schools.) 

China,  mission  in,  104-106. 

Chisholm,  Alexander  (Ta- 
hiti, &c.),  330;  charged 
unjustly  with  seditious  con- 
duct, 331  ;  refuses  to 
acknowledge  Government 
control  of  appointments 
and  resigns,  333  ;  334;  his 
various  stations,  344;  visits 
Austral  Islands  with  Bard, 
346  ;  his  station  at  Samoa, 
380. 

Cho,  native  teacher  at  Bamp- 
ton  Island,  445. 

Chonuane,  610. 

Church  Missionary  Society  : 
establishment,  98,  99 ;  649, 
656,  775 ;  relations  with 
L.  M.  S.  in  Madugascar,7S4. 

Church  of  Scotland  Mission- 
ary Society,  8,  20. 

Churches,  Colonial,  mis- 
sionaries engaged  by,  494, 
534,  535  ;  controversy  as 
to  their  ability  to  support 
themselves,  572  s.jq. 

CliuicUes,  foreign,  appeal  ^ 
to  (1795  »  41  •  ' 


Civilization  inheathenlands, 
follows  the  introduction  of 
Christianity,  470  ;  imprac- 
ticable without  Chris- 
tianity, 471. 

'Civilized'  men,  mischief 
effected  in  heathen  lands 
by,  471. 

Clark,  Mr,,  Chaplain  at 
Sierra  Leone,  479,  480. 

Clark,  H.  E,  (Friends' 
Mission,  Madagascar),  778. 

Clarke,  Elbert  Sills  ^^Ccnt. 
Africa),  650,  651. 

Clarke,  IV ill i am  Edward 
(Samoa),  397. 

Clode,  Samuel  (Tahiti),  127, 

Coik,  John  ^Tahiti),  excom- 
municated on  board  the 
Duff,  48,49;  127,  148,151. 

Cockin,  [.,  of  Halifax,  14, 

637- 

Cocktn,  Joseph  (S.  Africa), 
637,  638. 

Coke,  Dr.,  45,  103. 

Colesberg,  568,  576,  616. 

Collins,  Charles  (Madagas- 
car), 764, 

Collins,  Col.,  urges  suppres- 
sion of  Bethelsdorp,  545. 

Collison,  G.,  100,  375. 

Commission  of  Inquir}',  on 
relations  of  colonists  to- 
wards natives,  antl  report, 
r>ri^  r'^?>l  ^^  S.  African 
'Institution '  question,  577. 

Committees,  District,  593, 
610,  739,  757. 

Committees  of  Correspon- 
dence for  organizing  the 
workofSociety.  15,98-101, 

Compulsory  attendance  at 
public  worship  (Tahiti), 
300. 

Congregational  Union  of 
Madagascar,  751-753. 

Consuls,  missionaries  and 
ex-missionaries     as,     307, 

310.  3ii,3'5- 
Continent,  the,  auxiliaries  of  • 

the  L.  M.  S.  on,  75  sqq. 
Conlributions  of  converts  to 

mission    and    other    work, 

272,   347,   349'   420,  467, 

579.  580,  631,  744,  754.  ^ 
Convict  ship,  \'andcrkcrnp's 

experiences  on,  4S5,  486. 
Cook,Capt.,20,2  2,ii7, 133, 

140,155,245,257,383.417. 
Coo!:,  Mr.  (of  Ma:dctiliead), 

24   JO- 


8o8 


INDEX 


Cooper,  Ebenczer  Vicessimvs 
(Huahineand  Samoa),  350, 

397- 
Cooper,  James  (Tongatabu), 

127,  134,  170.  173- 

Cooper,  Joseph  y  64. 

Copeland,  Mr.,  missionary 
of  the  Presbyterian  Church 
on  Tanna,  409. 

Copplestone,  ^Ir.  (C.M.S.), 
of  Cent.  Africa,  659,  660. 

Comer,  William  l^'^orgler 
(S.  Africa),  537. 

Coromandel  coast,  39. 

Corresponding  committees, 
15  sqq.,  98-101. 

Cotton-spinning  in  Mada- 
gascar, 68 1,  682. 

Countess  of  Huntingdon's 
College:  Trevecca,  11; 
Cheshunt,  14,  466. 

Cousins,  George  (Madagas- 
car) ,722;  describes  destruc- 
tion  of  idols  in  Madagas- 
car (1^69),  731-734;  work 
at  the  college,  765-767 ; 
member  of  Bible  revision 
committee,  776. 

Cousins,  M.A.,  William 
Edward  (Madagascar), 
713,  714;  his  early  im- 
])res.sions  of  the  religious 
character  of  Malagasy  con- 
verts, 715  ;  on  the  marriage 
of  the  queen  to  her  prime 
minister,  727  ;  757  ;  on  the 
revised  Malagasy  Bible  of 
1855  and  1865,  774;  chief 
reviser  of  Malagasy  Bible, 
1873  and  1886,  775,  779. 

Coz'er,  James  Fleet  (Tahiti), 
^27,  136,  138;  his  deser- 
tion of  the  mission  and 
removal  to  Port  Jackson, 
150,  151  ;  writes  to  the 
missionaries  at  Tahiti,  1 57 ; 
»73- 

Cowan,  William  Deans 
(Madagascar,,  757,  758. 

Cowie,  Robert,  one  of  the 
first  Directors  of  the  So- 
citty,39,49,5i,  ;^4,(jc),  104. 

'Cradle  of  the  Missionary 
Society,'  5. 

Cradock, mission  at, 568,578. 

Cradock,  Sir  John,  Governor 
of  Caf)C  Colony,  512,  563. 

Cran,  George  (S.  India),  104. 

Craven,  Edith  (Madagas- 
car;, 769. 

Creagh,  Stephen  Mark 
(Loyalty  Islands),  his  work 


Creagh,  S.  M.~ 
at    Mare,    410,   411 ;    re- 
moves to  Lifu,  411,  415. 

Creighton,  David  Hill 
(Buenos  Ayres),  104. 

Crole,  Mr.,  37. 

Crook,  William  Pascoe 
(Marquesas,  &c.),  65, 127; 
his  experiences  at  Santa 
Christina  and  Sir  Henry 
Martyn's  Island,  1 74  ;  re- 
turns to  England,  174; 
returns  to  Eimeo,  213 ; 
works  at  the  printing-press, 
216;  removes  to  Tahiti, 
217;  220,  221;  extracts 
from  his  journal,  227-231  ; 
assists  Nott  in  translating 
the  Scriptures,  300  ;  392. 

Cross,  Mr.  (Wesley an  mis- 
sionary), 284,  285. 

Crown  Court  Church,  5, 13; 
sermon  by  George  Burder 
at,  32  ;  ordination  of  Van- 
derkemp,  at,  484. 

Cru,  M.,  French  Protestant 
missionaryatMare, 41 2,416. 

Cidlen,  James  Harris  (Ma- 
ngaia,  &c.),  362,  363. 

Cumfuins,  John  (Madagas- 
car), 681. 

Cunningham,  Mr.,  a  witness 
ofJohnWilliams'death,377. 

Cupido,  Hottentot  convert, 
story  of,  504. 


Dahle,  L.  (Madagascar), 
776,  777,  778. 

Damara  Land,  530. 

Danger  Island,  372,  471. 

Danish  missions,  20. 

Darling,  David  (Tahiti, 
&c.),  214,  217,  218,  220, 
221,  224,230,  241 ;  testifies 
to  fidelity  of  chiefs  and  lead- 
ing people,  293, 294 ;  on  the 
outbreak  of  fanaticism,  297, 
298 ;  has  charge  of  the 
printing-press,  29S  ;  311; 
his  account  of  the  final 
struggle  between  native 
troops  and  French  troops 
at  Bunaauia,  321-324;  326, 
331  ;  later  life,  332. 

Darnley  Island, 'arrival  of 
native  teachers,  432,  433, 
437, 439 ;  work  of  Guciieng, 
442  ;  443,  447- 

Dauan  Island, 438,439,  442. 

Dauncey,  Harry  Moore 
(New  Guinea),  466. 


Davida,  native  teacher  of 
Tahaa,  settled  at  Mangaia, 
282,  360. 

Davidson,  M.D.,  Andrew 
(Madagascar), 7 13, 77 1, 772. 

Davies,  John  (Tahiti,  &c.), 
176,  182,  196;  plan  of 
instructing  in  a  knowledge 
of  the  Scriptures,  203,  213  ; 
extracts  from  his  journal  of 
a  tour  in  Tahiti,  213,  214  ; 
228  ;  removes  to  Huahine, 
243  ;  245  ;  leaves  Huahine, 
265  ;  administers  the  Com- 
munion to  the  first  church 
formed  at  Huahine,  267  ; 
his  co-operation  with  Nott 
in  the  translation  of  the 
Scriptures,  300,  302  ;  313, 
326  ;  his  long  and  faithful 
service, and  death,  335, 336. 

Davies,i^.'S..c.s.,8ic.,Sa?nuel 
Hickman  (Samoa),  397. 

Dawes,  Mr.,  Governor  of 
Sierra  LeoneCompany,478. 

Day,  William  (Upolu),  375, 
380. 

Deputation:  ofMessrs.Tyer- 
man  and  Bennet  to  the 
South  Seas  in  1821,  232- 
237;  271,  274;  of  Mr.  A. 
Spicer  and  Revs.  J.  King 
and  A.W.Murray  to  Samoa, 
397-403  ;  of  John  Camp- 
bell to  S.  Africa  (1812), 
533,534;  of  John  Campbell 
and  13r.  Philip  to  S.  Africa 
(181 8),  536;  of  R.  W. 
Thompson  to  Phalapye, 
639  sqq.  ;  of  Messrs.  Tyer- 
man  and  Bennet  to  Mada- 
gascar, 683;  of  Dr.  Mullens 
and  J.  Pillans  to  Madagas- 
car, 737. 

Des  Granges,  Augustus  (S. 
India),  104. 

Dineen,  Joseph  Henry  (Cent. 
Africa),  658,  662. 

Dinner  Island,  458,  466. 

Diphukwe,  native  teacher 
(S.  Africa),  636. 

Directors  of  the  L.M.S.,  the 
first,  39,  40  ;  early  method 
of  electing,  77. 

Dissenters'  Library,  Red 
Cross  Street,  12. 

District  Committees  at  mis- 
sion stations,  593,  610,739, 

757- 
Dodgshun,  Arthur  William 
(Cent.  Africa),  650,    652, 
653- 


INDEX 


809 


Douglas,  Mr.  (of  New- 
market), 33. 

Draper,  Walter  (Cent. 
Africa),  663. 

Driimviond,  George  (Samoa, 
&c.),  380. 

Dnmkenness  and  the  drink 
traffic:  S.  Seas,  155,  156, 
291.  299,  340,  343,  466; 
S.  Africa,  637,  638,  642, 
643 ;  Madagascar,  760. 

Duck's-foot  Lane,  38,  89. 

Duff,  the,  47,  48,  56, 
57  ;  second  voyage,  58-60  ; 
captured  by  the  h  rench ,  60 ; 
cost  of  building  and  fitting, 
80  ;  cargo  of  tea  carried 
on  homeward  journey,  80  ; 
amount  received  for  the 
copyright  of  the  account  of 
first  voyage  of,  80;  pur- 
chase and  equipment  of, 
122,  126;  nicknamed  *  The 
Ten  Commandments,'  128 ; 
departure  fromEngland  and 
first  voyage,  1 29  sqq. ;  arri- 
val in  England  (1798),  144, 

Dt(ffiis,Johii  (Madagascar  , 

713,  714- 

Duncanson,  Andrew,  16. 

Dundas,  Sir  Erancis,  (Jover- 
nor  of  Cape  Colony,  487, 
488,  492,  497,  499,  500. 

Dunn.  James  i^Cent.  Africa), 
658,  662. 

Dupont,  Mr.,  of  the  Castle 
and  Falcon  Inn,  14. 

Durant,  George,  67,  72. 

D'Urban,  Sir  Benjamin, 
Governor  of  Cape  Colony, 
553 ;  carries  out  the  Act 
for  the  emancipation  of 
Hottentots,  554. 

Dysselsdorp,  568,  576,  577. 

East,  Timothy,  239. 

Juist    Cape   (New  Guinea), 

448,  453- 
East    \  riesland    Missionary 

Society,  484. 
East  India  Company,  frus- 

trate.i  the  first  project  of  the 

Society    for   a   mission    to 

India,  55,  56;  80,89;  Act 

to  rescind  the  prohibition 

of  the,  108,  109. 
Easton,  Alexander,  15. 
libera,  native  teacher   from 

Karotoiiga  settled  in  New 

Guinea.  353. 
Ebner,John  Lion  Hart  (S. 

Africa;,55i,  532,537  .joins 


Ebner,  J.  L.  H. — 
Moffat  at  Africaner's  kraal, 
but  leaves  the  station,  583. 
Edinburgh    Missionary  So- 
ciety, 77,  479. 
Edmojids,  John  (S.  Africa), 
484,489,491;  leaves  Africa 
for  India,  492. 
Education  of  native  teachers ; 
see    Training    institutions 
and    colleges,  and  Native 
teachers. 
Education    and    training   of 

missionaries,  56,  66  sqq. 
Education  of  the  young;  see 

Schools. 
Edwards,    Mr.,    curate     of 
Tottenham    Court     Road 
Chapel,  34. 
Edwards,  Edward,  15, 
Ed^vards ,  Rogers  (S.  A  frica) , 

562,  588,  593,  609,  610. 
Edwards,        Thomas       (S. 

Africa),  562. 
Edwards,       William       (S. 
Africa),  484;   set  apart  for 
a  mission  to  the  liushmen, 
488,  518;  522. 
Eimeo,i36, 140, 163;  arrival 
of  King  Pomare   II,  and 
Nott,  Hayward,  Scott,  and 
Wilson  after  the  victory  of 
the  rebels  at  Tahiti,  193; 
departure      of     Hayward, 
Scott,     and     \Vilson     for 
Huahinc,    194;    return   of 
missionaries,  1 96;  first  fruits 
of  mission-work,  201,  202  ; 
prosperity    of  the    school, 
202  ;  increase  of  congrega- 
tions   and    in    the  number 
of  '  praying  people,'   205  ; 
burning  of  idols,  206;  bold- 
ness of  the  chief  Farefau, 
207  ;  martyrdom  of  a  con- 
vert, 207,  208  ;    overthrow 
of  idolatry, 208-2 1 1 ;  arrival 
ofEUis,  John\Villiam5,and 
others,  214;  introduction  of 
the  printing-press,  214,  215; 
circulation  of  the  Gospel  of 
St.  Luke  and  other  books, 
215-217  ;  title- jiage  of  the 
Gospel  of  .St.  Luke,  216; 
formation  of  the  Tahitian 
Auxiliary    Missionary   So- 
ciety, 217,  218;    establish- 
ment of  a  sugar-factory,  and 
its  failure,  218,  219;  forma- 
tion of  a  Christian  church 
by  Henry  and  I'latt,  223; 
baptism  of  the  inhabitants. 


Eimeo — 
224  ;  building  of  a  church 
with  blocks  of  coral,  224  ; 
academy  for  the  children  of 
missionaries,  224,  296,  297; 
state  of  the  mission  from 
1825  to  1840,  291  sqq.  'see 
also  Tahiti) ;  population  in 
1 848,  327;  J.  IJarff's  educa- 
tional work,  331  ;  number  of 
church  members  in  Tahiti 
and  Eimeo  in  i860,  335. 

Elder,  James  (Tahiti",  176, 
177,  191,  192. 

Elia,  native  teacher  of  Lifu, 
settled    in    New    Guinea, 

432,  434.-  442- 
Elikana,  native   teacher  at 

Ellice  Islands, 418, 424sqq. 
Ella,  Samuel  (Samoa,  &c.), 

393,  397,  41^,  420- 

Ellengowan,  the,  446,  454, 
462. 

Ellice  Islands,  394 ;  story 
of  the  introduction  of 
Christianity,  422-428; 
\\ork  of  native  teachers, 
428,  429  ;  characteristics 
of  the  people,  429.  [See 
also  Vaitupu,  Nukulaclae, 
Motutala,  Funafuti,  Nuku- 
fetau,  and  Nui.) 

Elliot,  Richard  y\ .  Indies), 
10;. 

Elliott,  William  (S.  Africa^, 
569 ;  letter  on  reform 
of  South  African  '  institu- 
tions,' 572,  573. 

Elliott,  William  Allan  (S. 
Africa', 628;  report  of  work 
among  the  NLitabele,  630. 

Ellis,  William  (S.  Seas, 
&c.),74;  Foreign. Secretaiy 
of  the  Society  1S33-1841;, 
92;  his  description  of  Ta- 
liiti,  137;  190;  arrives  at 
Eimeo  and  begins  work 
at  the  printing-juess,  214, 
215;  removes  to  Huahinc, 
218;  242,  243,  244,  265; 
his  sketch  of  school-work 
at  Iluahine,  266;  on  the 
formation  of  a  Christian 
church  at  Fare,  267;  con- 
sults Nott  respecting  acodc 
of  laws  for  Huahinc,  270; 
removes  to  the  Sandwich 
Islands,  271;    351;   visits 

S.   Africa,  and  reports  on 
the  '  institutions,'  574  ;  his 

early  visits  to  .Madagascar, 
709  ;  arrives  at  Antanana- 


8io 


INDEX 


Ellis,  IV.— 
livo  (1^:62),  713;  proposes 
to  build menK)iialchurches, 
715,    718  sqq. ;     relations 
with  his  colleagues,  717; 

76i,  7S4,  737- 

Emigration  to  S.  Africa  of 
Britishsubjects(i82o),557. 

Endeavour,  the,  purchased 
by  John  ^Villiams,  254, 
255>  257,  260. 

Erromanga  (New  Heb- 
rides' ,  356  ;  death  of  John 
Williams  at,  377,  405, 
409;  arrival  of  native 
teachers,  391,  409  ;  mur- 
der of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gor- 
don of  the  Nova  Scotia 
Society,  409,  410 ;  work  of 
Presbyterian  Church,  410. 

Espiritu  Santo  (New  Heb- 
rides), 405. 

Esslinger,  Melchior  (of  Zu- 
rich), 77. 

Evangelical  Magazine,  Dr. 
Bogue's  article  on  mission- 
work  in,  5-10;  its  estab- 
lishmcrt  as  a  medium  of 
uniting  evangelical  minis- 
ters, 10  ;  founder  and  prin- 
cipal editor  of,  11;  16, 
17;  the  question  of  circu- 
lating it  in  France,  95  ; 
article  by  Dr.  Haweis  on  a 
mission  to  South  Sea  Is- 
lands, iiij-12  1  ;  discussion 
on  mission-work  in  Cape 
Colony,  572  sqq. 

Evans,   Evan   (S.  Africa), 

241.  536. 

Evans  John  (S.  Africa),  585. 

Ewing,  Greville,  offers  to 
work  in  India,  54,  55. 

Eyre,  John,  founder  and 
editor  of  the  Evangelical 
Magazine,  1 1  ;  chief  agent 
in  the  origination  of  the 
L.  M.S.,  1 1  ;  early  life,  il  ; 
co-operates  with  M.  \Vilks 
in  starting  fortnightly  meet- 
ings for  the  discussion  of 
missionary  topics,  1 2  ;  13, 
I4;  treasurer  of  the  asso- 
ciation of  ministers,  15;  17, 
*^'  24,  25,  30  ;  appointed 
one  of  the  first  Directors  of 
the  Society,  39;  49,  67; 
one  of  the  secretaries  of 
the  Society,  92  ;  death, 
109;  lis.  128,  129,  131. 

Eyre,  fohn  (Tahiti),'  64, 
127.  151  ;  his  wife's  cour- 


Eyre,  J.— 

age  in  deciding  to  remain 

at  Tahiti,  151  ;  153  ;  letter 

to    Directors,    154;     156, 

164,  196. 
F^airbairn,  Mr.,  editor  of  the 

South  African  Advertiser, 

560. 
Fakaofo  (Tokelau  Islands), 

421. 
Fanauara,  native  teacher  of 

Raiatea,  262,  264. 
Farafangana  (Madagascar), 

mission-work  at,  764. 
Faravohitra       memorial 

church,  719,  721. 
Farefau,  a   chief,    his   bold 

conduct       in      favour      of 

Christianity,  207. 
Farquhar,        Sir       Robert, 

Governor     of     Mauritius, 

675- 

Fauvasa,  native  teacher  of 
Samoa,  sent  to  New  Cale- 
donia, 380. 

Fenn,Dr.  (Madagascar),  7  7  2. 

Fenou,  chief  of  Tongatabu, 
140. 

Ferguson,  Peter  (of  the  Glas- 
gow Society),  missionary 
to  the  Foulahs,  479,  480. 

Fiadanana  memorial  church, 
720,  721. 

Fianarantsoa  (chief  town  of 
Betsileo),  mission-work  in,. 

757,  759- 
Fiji  Islands,  284,  285. 
Finance    of    the    L.  M.  S., 

treatment  of,  78-S8. 
Fingoes,     their     settlement 

between    the    Keiskamma 

and  Fish  Rivers,  554. 
Fitzgibbon,  Thomas,  64. 
Fly   River,    433,   439,   447, 

448,  449>  468. 
Forster,    M.R.c.s.,  Edivard 

^^'^'£'0?  (Madagascar),  737. 
Forsyth,  A^athanael  (North 

India),  103. 
Fort    J:!eaufort,  mi-ssion  at, 

568,  576. 
Foster,       Willia?n       (East 

Africa),  564. 
Foulahs,    the,     mission    to, 

102,  477-480. 
Fowler,    Captain,     of     the 

John  Williams,  382. 
Fox,  Dr.  Tregelles,  772'. 
Foyster,  G.,  one  of  the  first 

Directors  of  the  Society,  39. 
France,     mission-work     m, 

92-96. 


Free  Church  of  Scotland's 
mission  to  Africa,  619,  649. 

Freeman,  Joseph  John 
(Madagascar),  681,  687, 
688,  689,  693,  698,  773. 

French,  the,  capture  of  the 
Duff  by,  60  ;  their  hostility 
to  missionaries  at  the 
Loyalty  Islands,  411,  412, 
414,  415  ;  in  Madagascar, 

763,  790-792.  . 
French,  the,  in  Tahiti  : 
arrival  of  a  French  spy  and 
two  priests,  Caret  and 
Laval  (1834),  306,  307  ; 
statement  by  priests,  306  ; 
conduct  of  Moerenhout, 
U.S.  consul,  in  aiding  the 
French,  307,309  ;  audience 
of  priests  with  the  queen, 
who  orders  them  to  leave, 

308  ;  expulsion  of  priests, 

309  ;  the  queen  prohibits 
the  landing  of  two  priests 
(1837),  309  '■>  Caret  relates 
his  supposed  wrongs  on 
visiting  Europe,  solicits  the 
aid  of  France  and  of  the 
Pope,  309  ;  arrival  of  the 
French  ship  of  war,  the 
Venus  (1838),  and  an  apo- 
logy and  fine  demanded  of 
the  queen,  310;  the  queen 
salutes  the  French  flag 
with  French  powder,  310  ; 
licentious  conduct  of  crew 
of  French  warship  Arte- 
mise,  311  ;  the  teaching  of 
Roman  Catholicism  made 
illegal,  311  ;  the  queen 
compelled  to  sign  a  treaty 
giving  freedom  to  Ro- 
manists, 311  ;  secret  mid- 
night meeting  of  Admiral 
Du  Petit-Thouars  and  dis- 
affected chiefs,  316,  317; 
the  queen's  fruitless  appeal 
to  England,  318  ;  liruat 
(afterwards  governor) 
takes  possession  of  the 
islands  (1843),  318  ;  Bruat 
invites  the  missionaries  to 
recognize  his  authority, 
318;  outbreak  of  civil 
war,  319  ;  British  Govern- 
ment formally  acknow- 
ledges French  Protectorate 
(1845),  320;  final  struggle 
between  native  troops  and 
French  at  Bunaauia  (i8.f7), 
321-324  ;  effect  of  French 
influence,  325  ;  French  rule 


INDEX 


8ii 


French,  the,  in  Tahiti — 

said   to    be    preferable    to 

Queen    Pomare's   absolute 

despotism,  343. 
French  Revolution,  effect  in 

England  of,  4. 
Frey,  J.  S.  C.  F.  (London 

Jews),  96-98. 
Friendly  Islands;  j^ijTonga- 

labu. 
Friends'    Foreign     Mission 

Association,  738,  740,  757, 

769,  772,  775. 
Puataiese,  native  teacher  at 

Aneiteum,  406. 
Fuller,     Andrew,     Carey's 

appeal  to,  5. 
Funafuti    (Ellice    Islands), 

426,  427,  428. 
Funds  of  the  Society,  84,  85. 
Futuna     (New    Hebrides), 

376 ;     landing    of    native 

teachers,  405. 
Fwambo,  663,  664,  665, 669. 

Cxaika,  Kafir  chieftain,  489  ; 
his  reception  of  Vander- 
kemp,  490,  49 1 ,  492  ;  Lord 
Charles  Somerset  makes  a 
treaty  with  him,  556. 

Gaiilton,  Sanmel  (Tonga- 
tabu},    127,    134;    killed, 

171.  172. 

Geddie,  Mr.  (of  the  United 
Piesbytcrian  Church  of 
Nova  Scotia),  his  work  at 
Aneiteum,  406,  407. 

George  Town,  576. 

Georgian  (or  Windward) 
Islands ;  see  Tahiti  aud 
Eimeo. 

Gilbert  Islands,  work  of 
native  teachers  at,  429,  430. 

Gilham,  Joh?i  A.  (Tahiti), 
127,  144. 

Gill,  George  (Mangaia,  &c.), 
3?3>  3595  fi''st  resident 
European  missionary,  360.  1 

Gill,  ll'illiatn  T<aiotonga), 
352,  359  ;  his  visits  to 
Mangaia,   360  ;    his  Get/is 

jrotn  the  Loral  Islands,  \ 
361  ;  369;  visits  Niue  with  } 
H.  Nisbtt,  417. 

Gill,   B.A.,    i.L.ij.,    William 
Wyatt    (Mangaia),     353 ; 
revises      the      Rnrutongan  1 
liible,  358  ;  length  of  ser-  I 
vice,    359 ;      his     mission  | 
labours  and  literary  work, 
360-362 ;      365  ;      accom- 
panies  natives    to    Atafu, 


Gill,  W.  VA— 
421  ;    accompanies  native 
teachers   to   New  Guinea, 
440,  442  sqq. 

Glasgow  Missionary  Society, 

479- 

Glenelg,  Lord,  542,  555 ; 
his  dispatch  sent  to  Cape 
Town  for  the  protection  of 
native  rights,  558,  559, 567. 

Glynn,  Sir  R.  Carr,  478. 

Goeyman,  J.,  assistant  mis- 
sionary at  liephzibah,  537. 

Colder,  Mr.  (of  Croydon),  34. 

Good,  James (S.  Aliica),  647. 

Good  News,  mission  steamer 
for  Tanganyika,  662,  668, 
669. 

Gordon,  G.W.  (Presbyterian 
missionary), murdered, with 
his  wife, on  Erromanga,4io, 

Gosport  Academy,  67,  73, 
74.  104,  674,  676,  6S1. 

Gould,  Alfred  James  (S. 
Africa),  608. 

Goward,  William  Edward 
(^Samoa),  397. 

Grnaff  Reinet,  arrival  of 
Vanderkemp  at,  489  ;  494; 
attacked  by  rebel  Boers, 
497;  work  of  Read  amongst 
the  soldiers,  505  ;  visit  of 
John  Campbell,  533  ;  56S, 

578,  581. 

Graham,  Miss  (Madagas- 
car), 772. 

Graham,  Robert  (Glasgow 
Society),  missionary  to  the 
Foulahs,  479,  4S0. 

Graham,  \\  illiam,  16. 

Graham's  Town,  556,  557; 
work  at,  563,  564;   578. 

Grainge,  Henry  \\  illiam 
(Madagascar),  737,  768. 

Great  Fish  River,  4S8,  514, 

533>  557- 

Great  Namaquoland  ;  see 
Namaquas. 

Greathccd,  Samuel,  16,  24, 
30;  appointed  one  of  the 
first  Directors  of  the  So- 
ciety, 39;  132. 

Greece,  mission  to,  105, 107. 

Green,  James  Lam^ard 
(Tahaa,  Demerara,  (S:c.  , 
336  ;  lakes  part  in  estab- 
lishing a  Noimal  School  at 
Tahiti,  337;complctes,with  ' 
others,  another  revision  of 
Tahitian   Bible,  337;  344,  1 

35'-  I 

Gregory,  \\  illiam,  64.  1 


Greig,  Peter  (Edinburgh 
Society;,  missionary  to  the 
Foulahs,  479.  480. 

(irey,  Sir  George,  602. 

Griffin,  Mr.  (of  Portsea), 
33.  125,  131. 

Griffith,  William  (Central 
Alrica',654;  opens  a  mis- 
sion at  Mtowa,  Uguha, 
656.  657. 

Griffiths,  Z>az^V/ (Madagas- 
car), 74,  676,  677,  67S, 
686,  687,  689, 6yO  ;  returns 
to  Madagascar  as  a  trader, 

705 ;  707*  774- 

GriquaTown  (KlaarWater'' : 
station  formed  by  W.  An- 
derson, 525;  early  diffi- 
culties, 526;  532;  visit  of 
John  Campbell,  533  ;  537  ; 
Moffat's  hrst  visit,  584 ; 
differences  of  the  mission- 
aries with  Moffat,  591  ;  its 
chief,  Waterboer,  jealous 
of  Xuruman,  591,  644. 

Gucheng.  native  teacher  of 
Lifu,  settled  at  Darnley 
Island,  and  afterwards  on 
the  Fly  River.  New  Guinea, 

43-',  433.  437.442. 

Guldberg,  Dr.  (Madagas- 
car), 772. 

Gutacene,  native  teacher, 
settled  in  New  Guinea,  442. 

Gyles,  John  (Tahiti,  (S:c.), 
21S,  219. 

Haavi,  native  teacher  of 
Raiatca,  259. 

Hadfield,  James  (Lifu,  &c.), 
415,  416. 

Hafre,  native  tencher  of 
Eimeo,  345. 

Haldane,  Robert,  attempts 
to  organize  a  mission  to 
India,  54,  55;  his  juoposal 
for  starting  a  seminary  for 
missionary  students.  67  sqq. 

Ilamilton,Robert{^.  A  frica  j , 
538  ;  early  work  at  Lat- 
takoo,  5S5 ;  works  with 
Moflat  at  Kuruman,  593  ; 
his  abilities  as  a  missionary, 
594;  death,  594;  his 
honourable  place  among 
cany  missionaries,  595. 

Ilammcs,  I*.  F.,  tinancial 
agent  at  Cape  Town  of 
the  L.  M.S.,  515,  517. 

Hands,  John  ^S.  India),  74. 

Hankey,  53S  ;  mission-work 
ami    workers.    564  ;     visit 


8l2 


INDEX 


Ilankey — 
of  commission,  577  ;  with- 
drawal of  the  Society's 
aid,  578 ;  resumption  of 
work  by  the  Sojiety,  579, 
5S0  ;  improvement  under 
J.  Mackenzie,  580. 

liankey,  William  Alers, 
second  Treasurer  of  the 
Society,  91. 

Hanuabada  (New  Guinea), 
446,  447. 

Happy  Deliverance  Foun- 
tain, 527. 

Happy  Prospect  Fountain, 
first  mission  station  amongst 
the  Bushmen,  520. 

Jlarbtttt,  William  (Upolu), 
380,  394. 

Hardcastle,  Joseph,  first 
Treasurer  of  the  Society, 
38 ;  appointed  one  of  the 
first  Directors,  39;  49,  53. 
^'7?  77>  S2  ;  his  services  to 
the  Society,  89-91  ;  one  of 
a  deputation  to  France,  94  ; 
99,100, 104;  his  death,  109. 

liar  die,  Charles  (Samoa), 
374.  375>  380;  appointed, 
with  Mr.  Turner,  to  super- 
intend the  Malua  Insti- 
tution, 389  ;  retires  from 
Samoa,  392  ;  409  ;  on  mis- 
sion progress  in  Nine,  419. 

Harper,  Sa?nuel  (Tonga- 
tabu),    127,    134;    killed, 

171,  172- 

Harris,  Mr.,  accompanies 
John  Williams  to  Frro- 
manga  and  is  killed  with 
him  on  landing,  376,  405. 

Harris,  George  Alfred 
'  Mangaia),  362. 

Harris,  John  (^Cent.  Africa), 
662. 

Harris,  John  (Tahiti),  127, 
134.  MO,  143,  151,  153, 
164.  165,  168. 

Hartley^  M..\.,  Richard 
(iriffiihs  'Madagascar;, 
722. 

Hassall,  T.,  254. 

Has  sell,  Rowland  (Tahiti), 
127  ;  removes  to  Port 
Jackson,  151  ;   167. 

Hastic,  Mr.,  P,ritish  Resi- 
dent at  Antananarivo,  675, 
679,  680. 

Haweis,  Dr.,  chaplain  to 
Lady  Huntingdon,  review 
of  Mr.  Home's  b(;ok  on 
missions  by,   11  ;    16,  25; 


Haweis,  Dr. — 
sermon  at  Spa  Fields 
Chapel,  26-30,  33  ;  advo- 
cates making  the  South 
Sea  Islands  the  scene  of 
the  first  mission  of  the  new 
Society,  34,  11 9-1 21  ;  one 
of  the  first  Directors  of  the 
Society,  39  ;  presents  a 
memorial  on  an  African 
mission,  45,  10 1  ;  49,  54, 
^1,  67,  76,  84,  94;  his 
death,  109  ;  his  liberality, 
121  ;  122  et passim. 

Haweis,  Rev.  H.  R.,  117. 

Haweis,  the,  built  at 
Eimeo,  217,  218,274,471, 

Hayivard,  James  (Fimeo, 
&c.),  64,  176,  192,  193; 
retires  to  Eimeo  and  then 
to  Huahine,  193,  194;  195, 
196,  200,  212,  213;  visits 
England,  218. 

Heath,Mr.(of  Rodborough), 

25- 
Heath,     Thomas    (Samoa), 

367,  374>  375,  380,  408- 

Heathenism  in  Polynesia,  its 
disappearance  from  every 
island  to  which  Christianity 
has  been  carried,  470. 

Helm,  Charles  Daniel  (S. 
Africa),  628. 

Helm,  Daniel  J.  (S.  Africa), 
568. 

Helm,  Henry  (S.  Africa), 
531,  537  ;  his  work  at 
Caledon  Institution,  568. 

Helmore,  Hollozuay  (S. 
Africa),  593,  601,  602, 
613  ;  head  of  the  proposed 
Makololo  Mission,  619; 
starts  with  Roger  Price  for 
Linyanti,620;  arrives, 621; 
his  party  attacked  by  fever, 
621 ;  his  death,  and  deaths 
of  wife  and  two  children, 
622. 

Hemans,  James  Hejiry  E. 
(Cent.  Africa),  663. 

Heneri,  native  teacher  of 
Rarotonga,  settled  in  New 
Guinea,  441,  444,  446. 

Henry,  William  (Tahiti, 
&c.),  48,  64,  127,  138; 
removes  to  Port  Jackson, 
'51  ;  157  ;  returns  to 
Tahiti,  166;  T93  ;  death  of 
his  wife,  196;  213,  218, 
222,  223;  with  Piatt 
forms  a  Christian  church 
at  Eimeo,  223  ;  number  of 


Henry,  W. — 
persons  baptized  by  him, 
224;  removes  to  Tahiti, 
224  ;  230  ;  on  native 
teachers,  292  ;  assists  Nott 
in  the  translation  of  the 
Scriptures,  300;  313. 

Hephurti,  James  Davidson 
(S.  Africa),  635  ;  visits 
Lake  Ngami,  636  ;  his 
work  at  Shoshong,  636- 
638  ;  takes  native  teachers 
to  Lake  Ngami,  638  ;  his 
differences  with  Khame, 
639;  death,  639;  640,  641. 

Hephzibah,  mission  at,  537, 
538. 

Herdman,  Mr.  (of  South 
Petherton),  32. 

Hermannsburg  Missionary 
Society,  634. 

Hervey  Islands ;  see  Aitu- 
taki,  Atiu,  Mangaia,  Raro- 
tonga, Manuae,  Mauke, 
and  Mitiaro. 

Hervey's  Island,  262. 

Hex  River,  522. 

Hey,  John,  of  Castle  Green 
Church,  Bristol,  5,  30,  32  ; 
mission  sermon  at  White- 
field  Tabernacle,  33  ;  one 
of  the  first  Directors  of  the 
Society,  3-^ 

Hibernian  Society,  105,  iii. 

Hill,  John,  62. 

Hill,  Rowland,  25,  30 ; 
preaches  a  mission  sermon 
at  Surrey  Chapel,  33,  119, 
482  ;  appointed  one  of  the 
first  Directors  of  the  So- 
ciety, 39;  43,  49 

Hills,  John  William  (Sa- 
moa), 395,  397. 

Hodges,  Peter  (Tahiti),  127  ; 
removes  to  Port  Jackson, 

151- 
HomertonEpiscopalChapel , 

1 1. 
Hood,   Thomas  Samuel  (S. 

Africa),  562. 
Hooge  Kraal ;  see  Pacalts- 

dorp. 
Hooper,    Frederick    G.    W. 

(S.  Africa),  536. 
Hope,  the,  251. 
Hope  Dale,  578. 
Hope  Fountain  (Matabele- 

land),  627,  628,  629,  630. 
Hore,  Edward  Coode  (Cent. 

Africa),     650,    652,   656  ; 

visits  England,  657  ;  leads 

the    fourth   expedition   to 


INDEX 


813 


Ilore,  E.  C— 

Central  Africa,  658  ;  662  ; 
appointed  captain  of  the 
John  Williams,  666. 

Home,  Melville,  Letters  on 
Missions  by,  11,  12,  22; 
attempts  to  establish  a  mis- 
sion in  Sierra  Leone,  11, 
22  ;  his  mission  sermon  at 
St.  Saviour's,  =0,  51  ;  478. 

Hottentots,  489 ;  their  ill- 
usage  by  the   Boers,  493, 

494.  496 ;  instructed  by 
Vanderl<emp     and     Read, 

495,  496 ;  Kethelsdorp 
founded  for  them,  498-500 ; 
marauding  bands  attack 
Botha's  Farm,  500 ;  their 
poverty,  laziness,  &c.,  503; 
their  rights  upheld  by 
Vanderkemp,  509;  Read 
pleads  their  claims  to 
Lord  Caledon,  510,  511  ; 
movement  in  their  favour 
by  the  Government,  512; 
work  amongst  them  of 
Kicherer,  Anderson,  and 
Kramer,  524;  three  Hot- 
tentots taken  to  London 
by  Kicherer,  524;  tribes 
inXamaqualand,  521,  530; 
evangelization  of  numbers. 
532  ;  number  at  Bcthels- 
dorp  in  1818,  536;  efforts 
made  by  Dr.  Philip  for 
their  emancipation,  541. 
544,546,549-551  ;  Act  for 
their  emancipation,  554. 

Hon  lder,Joh  n  A  Ider  { M  ad  a  - 
gascar),  737,  763,  768. 

Hova,  the,  754,  759,  763. 

Hovenden,  Charles  (Mada- 
gascar), 68 1. 

Howe,  William  (Tahiti). 
312  ;  sails  for  England 
after  the  French  occupation 
of  Tahiti,  319;  on  the 
French  interpretation  of 
'  full  religious  toleration,' 
327,  328;  disagreements 
between  him  and  Thomson , 
329,  330;  j)rosccuted  for 
alleged  seditious  language, 
330 ;  revises  the  Taliilian 
Bible,  publishesthe  7'atara 
ran,  sermons,  &c.,  333, 
334;  actions  brought  a- 
gainst  him  for  attacking 
the  Catholic  Church,  333; 
death,  334  ;  339,  358. 

Howell,  Mr.,  59. 

Hoxton  Academy,  14. 


Huahine  :  the  first  evange- 
listic \-isit,  191  ;  arrival  of 
missionaries  on  the  out- 
break of  war  in  Tahiti,  192; 
arrival  of  Idia,  192;  arrival 
of  Hayward,  Scott,  and 
Wilson,  194;  retirement  of 
missionaries,  except  Hay- 
ward,  to  Port  Jackson  ,194; 
idolatry  renounced  by  many 
of  the  people,  212,  243: 
arrival  of  Ellis,  Orsmond, 
and  Williams,  218,  243; 
progress  of  mission-work, 
244,  245  ;  departure  of 
Davies,  265  ;  school-work, 
266;  formation  of  a  Chris- 
tian church  at  Fare,  267  ; 
the  abandoned  abomina- 
tions, 268;  unfriendly  criti- 
cisms of  travellei  s,  269  ; 
increase  of  church-  member- 
ship from  1820  to  1827, 
270  ;  code  of  laws  promul- 
gated, 270  ;  slight  reaction 
in  favour  of  heathen  cus- 
toms in  1821,  270;  refrac- 
tory conduct  and  punish- 
ment of  the  king's  son 
Taaroarii,  270,  271 ;  aboli- 
tion of  drink  traffic.  340  ; 
Queen  Pomare  takes  refuge 
here,  341  ;  the  queen  sent 
to  Tahiti,  343  ;  revolution 
rTS-2),  344. 

Hndden,  Edward,  127,  131, 
132. 

Hughes,  Isaac  (.S.  Africa\ 
587,  591.  59.^. 

Hughes,  Roha t,  62. 

Human  sacrifice  at  Tahiti, 
&c., 143, 159, 163, 164, 178, 
182,207,  208,235,  245. 

Humphreys.  John,  16,  100. 

Hunkin.NIaithew,  European 
worker  in  Samoa,  381. 

Hunt,  Archibald  E.  fXew 
Guinea,  circ),  449,  468. 

Hunter,  Dr..  of  London  Wall 
Scotch  Church,  33.  12S. 

Huntingdon,  Lady,  II,  117- 

Hut  chin,  Jo  Jin  Joseph 
Knight  (Rarotonga),  his 
summary  of  the  work  of 
the  Training  College  at 
Rarotonga,  353;  359'  l^^^)- 

Hut  ley,  Walter  (Cent. 
Africa),  650,  657. 


Ih^ina    Mission   (Madagas- 
car ,  763. 


Idia  or  Edea),  wife  of  ex- 
King  Pomare  Tahiti  ,  139, 

141,  148,   150,   1S6;  goes 
to  Huahine,  192. 

Idolatry  :  in  Polynesia,  143, 
178,  207-213,' 235,  245, 
275».^55;  i"  Madagascar, 
684,687,  716,  731,  732. 

Idols,  burning  of:  Tahiti, 
&c.,  206,  207,  276;  at 
Madagascar,  727,  731-734- 

Ilala,  place  of  Livingstone's 
death,  617. 

Imeriiia,  738, 739-754  ;num- 
ber  evangelized,  755. 

Incomes  of  missionaries, 
295 »  31 !»  313.  507,  508, 
.^^7'  529*  540.  543 J  ^16. 

India,  appointment  of  Carey 
and  John  Thomas  to  mis- 
sion-work in,  5,  21;  first 
attempt  of  the  L.  ^L  S.  to 
organize  a  mission  to,  54- 
56,  102,  103  ;    105,  106. 

Infanticide  :  in  Tahiti,  141, 

142.  148,     149;     among 
Bushmen,  521. 

Inglis,  John  (of  the  Reform- 
ed Presbyterian  Church  of 
Scotland  ,  his  work  at 
Aneiteum,  406,  407. 

Inglis,   Walter  (S.  Africa), 

593,  594; 

Iniies,  William,  offers  for 
work  in  India,  54,  55. 

'  Institutions,'  missionary,  in 
S.  Africa,  498  500,  502- 
506,  546,  547 ;  their  con- 
dition and  management, 
572  sqq.;  visit  of  W.  Ellis, 
574;  the  Directors  urge 
the  principle  of  self-suj>- 
port,  &c.,  575  ;  some  be- 
come self-supporting,  575, 
576;  increasing  demand  for 
home  aid,  576;  the  Direc- 
tors' '  Budget  Dispatches,' 
and  their  appointment  of 
a  commission,  576,  577 : 
Missionary  Institutions  Hill 
^^Cape  Parliament  ,  577, 
578  ;  the  severance  of  the 
'Institutions'  from  the  So- 
ciety,578, 579;  Hankey.the 
only  '  institution  '  at  which 
work  has  been  resumed 
(1891),  579.  {See  also  Bo- 
tha's harm,  Bethclsdorp, 
Caledon  Institution,  Pa- 
callsdorp.  Theopolis,  Han- 
key,  Kat  Kivcr  .Settlement, 
laarl,      Cradock,      Kruts 


8i4 


INDEX 


*  Institutions' — 

Fontein,  Dysselsdorp. 

Oudtshoorn,  &c. ;  also  list 

of  stations,  536-538,  568.) 
Insurance   of    missionaries' 

lives,  54. 
Inyati,    chosen   by   Mosili- 

katse  as  the  centre  of  the 

Matabele     Mission,    624 ; 

early   experiences    of    the 

missionaries,  625,626;  630, 

631. 
Isle  of  Pines,  410. 
Irvine,  Alexa)tder,  416. 
Italy,  work  of  the  Society 

in,  95- 

Jamaica,  mission  to,  first 
proposed  in  1797,  103. 

James,  Dr.  ,murdered  at  Yule 
Island,  435,  451. 

James,  John  Angell,  67,241; 
entertains  Henry  Nolt 
during  his  visit  to  Birming- 
ham, 305  note. 

Janssens,  Jan  Willem, 
Governor  of  Cape  Colony, 
501.  502,503. 

/anz,  Lambert  (S.  Africa), 
526,  535. 

Java,  mission  to,  105,  ic6. 

Jay,  William,  33. 

Jefferson,  Mr.   ^of  Basing- 
stoke), 34. 

Jefferson,  John  (Tahiti),  ex- 
communicated on  board 
the  Duff,  48,  49;  64,  127, 
J38,  143,  147,  148;  at- 
tacked by  natives,  150;  151, 
'53>  ^?^,  164,  176,  179  ; 
his  death,  189;  sterling 
character  of,  tqo;  193,  339. 

Jeffreys.  John  (Madasascar), 
676,  677. 

Jerard,  John,  64. 

Jernient,  George,  15. 

Jersey,  Countess  of,  opens 
the  Central  Girls'  School 
at  I'apauta  (Samoa),  395, 

Jen.is  Islnnd,  442. 

Jesson,  John  7'homas  (Ta- 
hiti;. 316,  319. 

Jesuit  missions;  j^<?Catholic 
missions. 

Jcw5,the,work  of  the  Society 
ainonc,  96-98. 

John  Williams,  the,  371, 
372,  417,  4'9'  421,  429' 
4.32,  452  ;  the  four  ships  of 
this  name,  471,  472. 
Johns  (Jones) ,  David '  NT  ad  a- 
ga&car, ,  68 1 ,  689, 690, 693 ; 


Johns,  D. — 
translates  Pilgrivis  Pro- 
gress, 696  ;  698  ;  on  the 
early  Malagasy  converts, 
701  ;  his  help  to  Christian 
refugees,  705  ;  death,  707. 
Johnson,  W.  (Madagascar), 
776. 

Johnston,  Joseph  (Tahiti), 
312;  alludes  (1839)  to  ex- 
aggerated statements  in 
England  as  to  prosperous 
condition  of  mission  in  Ta- 
hiti, 313,  314:   319,326. 

Jones,  David  (Madagascar^ 
74, 105,  674;  arrival  atTa- 
niatave  and  death  of  wife 
and  child,  675  ;  received 
by  Radania  I  at  Antanana- 
rivo, 675;  677;  preaches 
first  sermon  in  Malagasy, 
677  ;  683,  686,  687  \  de- 
scribes martyrdom  of  Chris- 
tians, 705  sqq.;  death,  707. 

Jones,  David  Picton  (Cent. 
Africa\  658,662,663,667. 

Jones,  Edwin  Pryce  (Mada- 
gascarV  764. 

Jones,  James,  64, 

Jones,  John  (Loyalty  Is- 
lands), settled  at  Mare,  411  ; 
arrested  by  the  French, 
412 ;  4T3,  416. 

Jones,  Thomas  (Tahiti),  228. 

Josaia,  native  teacher  of 
Mare,  a  New  Guinea  pio- 
neer, 432.  435,  442. 

Joseph .  Tho?nas  ( Tah  iti) , 
312;  his  unconstitutional 
ejection  from  the  church 
at  Papeete,  315  ;  returns 
to  England,  319. 

Jnkes,  Charles  (Madagas- 
car), 722  ;  on  the  country 
churches  of  Madagascar, 
745-747;  757- 

Kafirs:  Vanderkemp's  at- 
tempts to  begin  a  mission 
amongst  them,  489-493  ; 
British  expedition  against, 
514;  many  evangelized, 
532;  war  of  1S19,  540; 
war  of  1835,  554,  558; 
their  frequent  outbreaks 
due  to  the  rapacity  and 
cruelty  of  colonists,  556  ; 
Lord  Glenclg's  dispa^tch 
for  the  protection  of  their 
rights,  558,  559  ;  territory 
restored  to  them,  560 ;  war 
of  1846,  56  7. 


Kaffraria,  mission  in,  537, 
566,  567. 

Kalo  massacre,  460,  461. 

Kam,  Joseph  (Java),  105. 

Kanye,  633,  634;  mission- 
work,  647,  648. 

Kat  River,  490,  558,  565. 

Kat  River  Settlement,  558  : 
history       of,       564-566. 

571. 
Katau  (New  Guinea),  442, 

444- 
Kavala    Island,    662,    6^3, 
664,  667. 

Kayser,    Frederick     Gottlob 

(S.  Africa),  567. 
Kayser,  Henry  (S.  Africa), 

^579- 

Keiskamma  River,  567, 
Kelso,    Seth    (Tongatabu), 

127,  134,  173. 
Kerepunu    (New    Guinea), 

467,468. 
Keresiano,  native  teacher  of 

Mare,  pastor  at  Urea  and 

a  New  Guinea  pioneer,  43  2, 

434-  435- 

Kessler,  Julius  (Madagas- 
car \.  722. 

Kestell  -  Cornish,  Bishop, 
779,  780,  789. 

Kettering,  founding  of  the 
Baptist  Missionary  Society 
at,  5. 

Khamane  (brother  of  Kha- 
me),  635,  636. 

Khame,  king,  633;  becomes 
chief  of  his  tribe,  and  makes 
a  public  profession  of 
Christianity,  635  ;  recalls 
his  father,  Sekhome,  to 
Shoshong,  636 ;  retires 
from  Shoshong,  but  re- 
turns, and  re-establishes 
his  power,  636 ;  his  suc- 
cessful efforts  to  put  dowii 
heathen  customs  and  make 
a  model  Christian  town, 
636,  637 ;  migrates  from 
.Shoshong  to  Phalapye,  638; 
his  differences  with  Hep- 
burn, 639  ;  his  meeting  and 
discussion  with  Messrs. 
R.W.Thompson  and  Roger 
Price,  639-641  ;  his  visit 
to  England  and  appeal  to 
the  English  Government, 
641-644. 

Khamiesberg:  opening  of 
mission-station,  530;  at- 
tacked by  Africaner,  531  ; 

work    resumed  by  C.   Al- 


INDEX 


8i^ 


Khamiesberg —  ] 

brecht,Schmelen,Sass,  and 
Kbner,  532. 

Khukwe,  native  teacher  (S. 
Africa',  636,  638. 

Kicherer,  John  (S.  Africa), 
48 4  ;  set  apart,  with  Ed- 
wards, for  a  mission  to 
the  Bushmen,  488 ;  506, 
518;  his  first  experiences 
amongst  the  Bushmen,  5 1 9- 

521  :  method  of  mission- 
work,  522;  visits  Cape 
Town   with    a    Bushman, 

522  ;  joins  /\nderson  at 
Rich  Fountain,  523 ;  de- 
scribes Africaner's  cruel 
]5ractices,  523;  returns  to 
the  Zak  River,  524;  visits 
London  with  three  Hot- 
tentots, 524  ;  returns  to  the 
Colony,  and  accepts  pas- 
torate of  the  Dutch  church 
at  Graaff  Reinet,  524,  52^. 

King,  Joseph  (Samoa;,  397. 
Kinij    Williamstown,    554, 

^567. 

Kingsbury,  Thomns,  30,  32. 

Kirisome,  native  teacher  at 
Ellice  Islands,  429. 

Kirk,  Sir  John,  654,  658. 

Kirkman.  Mr.,  26. 

Kitching,  Mr.,  mission- 
worker  in  Madagascar,  698. 

Kitchinginan,  James  ,S. 
Africa,  241,  537;  work 
at  Bethelsdorp,  548,  570, 
571  ;  goes  to  Steinkopff  in 
Moffat's  company,  582. 

Klaar  Water ;  see  Griqua 
Town. 

Klip  Fountain ;  see  Bethany. 

Knapp's  Hope,  567,  579. 

Knight,  J.  A.,  15,  37. 

Knight,  James,  15,  39. 

Knight,  John,  14,  15. 

Knill,  Richard  (St.  Peters- 
burg, &c.\  74. 

Kok's  Kraa',  524,  531. 

Kolobeng :  destroyed  by 
the  Boers,  596;  611,  615, 
634,  648. 

Kornnnas,  the,  519,  523, 
.=526,  532. 

Kosas,  ihc,Kafir  tribes,  554. 

Kramer,  Cornelius  Adrian 
(S.  Africa),  519,  522,  524, 
525;  helps  Anderson  at 
KlaarWater,  525, 526 ;  537. 

Krause,  Ernest  Rudolph 
William  ^,Tahaa,  &c.), 
343.  344;   lemoval  to  Bo 


Kraiise,  E.  R.  IF.— 
rabora,  344;  work  at  Raro- 
tonga,  353,  359;  short  resi- 
dence at  Atiu,  369. 

Kruis  Fontein,  577.  57S. 

Kuruman  :  formerly  called 
New  Lattakoo,  585  ;  work 
of  Read  and  Hamilton, 
585 ;  first  experiences  of 
Moffat,  585,  5S6;  tem- 
porary retirement  of  the 
mission  to  Griqua  Town, 
587 ;  erection  of  stone 
buildings,  587  ;  first  signs 
of  success,  587  ;  printing- 
press,  588,  589 ;  mission 
progress,  589  ;  scarcity  of 
food,  589  ;  statistics  in  1834, 
590 :  dift'erences  of  the 
missionaries  with  Wright 
and  others  of  Griqua  Town, 
591  ;  arrival  of  Living- 
stone, 592  ;  first  meeting 
of  the  District  Committee, 
593  :  first  efforts  to  train 
native  teachers,  and  the 
sending  out  of  seven,  594; 
mixture  of  tribes  inhabiting 
the  town,  594;  alarms 
created  by  the  Boers.  596  ; 
natives  begin  to  cultivate 
fields  and  gardens,  597 ; 
differences  between  Ashton 
and  Moffat,  599-601; 
smallness  of  church  mem- 
bers' contributions,  600  ; 
issue  of  a  periodical  in 
Seohwana,  601  ;  the  land 
question,  606  ;  Moffat  In- 
stitution, 606,  607;  Boys' 
Boarding  vSchool,  607  ; 
changes  in  mission  slaff, 
60S  ;    native  teachers,  648. 

Kwato  (New  Guinea  ,  466, 
468. 

Laborde,  M.,  French  consul 
at  Antananarivo,  7:4. 

Laird,  L.R.C.P.,  &c.,  Erank 
(Cent.  Africa  ,  662. 

Lalolago,  native  teacher  left 
by  J.  Williams  at  Tanna, 

377- 
Lambert,  M.,  trench  agent 

at  Antananarivo,  714,  79 1. 

Lambert,  Georj^^e,  30  ;  one 
of  the  first  Directors  of  the 
Society,  39. 

Langton,  D,  assistant  secre- 
tary of  the  Society,82, 85, 92, 

Large,  Agnes  Eunice  (.Sa- 
moa and  Rarotonga),  395. 


Lattakoo  (Old) :  visit  of 
John  Campbell  and  W, 
Anderson,  533;  538,  571  ; 
arrival  of  Moffat,  584:  re- 
moval of  the  tribe  to  New 
Lattakoo,  585. 

Lattakoo  y\ew),  540,  585; 
and  see  Kuruman. 

Lawes,  Erancis  Edxvin 
(Niue),  420. 

L.awes,  D.i).,  William  George 
(Niue  and  New  Guinea), 
382  ;  on  the  change  ef- 
fected at  Niue  by  Christian 
teaching,  419;  appointed  to 
New  Guinea  (Port  Mores- 
by), 420,  447,  449  ;  on  the 
prospects  of  woik  in  New 
Guinea  (i874\  450;  de- 
scribes Port  Moresby  and 
the  people,  450,  45 1 ;  report 
of  a  year's  work,  45  :,  452  ; 
begins  preparation  of  the 
New  Guinea  Bible,  459; 
ordains  first  New  Guinea 
teacher,  46  2  ;  on  progress  of 
work  in  New  Guinea,  463  ; 
his  object  in  establishing 
the  Vatorata  Institution, 
467. 

Lawrence,  William  Nicol 
(Aitutaki\  36S,  370. 

Laws:  of  Tahiti,  promulga- 
tion of,  221,  222;  against 
the  importation  of  spirits, 
300;  licensing  immorality, 
32S  ;  restricting  the  work 
of  missionaries,  330,  331  ; 
depriving  churches  of  the 
power  to  elect  tliei.-  own 
pastors,  331  :  of  Raiatea, 
248  :  of  Huahine,  270 : 
of  Rarotonga,  276,  355;  : 
of  Samoa,  382  :  of  Lifu. 
414:  of  New  Guinea,  466  : 
of  King  Khame  S.  A'Vica;, 

637- 

Le  Brun,John  ^Mauritius), 
105.  674. 

Le  Brun,  John  J.  (Mauri- 
tius), 713. 

L.ea,  George  Henry  (Cent. 
Africa),  663. 

Lee,  Thomas,  collector  for 
the  Society,  85,  92. 

Leeward  orSocieiy,  Islands; 
see  Huahine,  Raiatea,  Bora- 
bora,  Tahaa,  and  Maupiti. 

Lefuga,  visit  of  John  Wil- 
liams, C.  liarff,  and  Mr. 
Cross  to,  285.  2S6. 

Leggalt,  Mr.  ^of  St  rood),  36. 


8i6 


INDEX 


Leicester  :  Carey  and  John 
Thomas  set  apart  for  mis- 
sion-work at,  5. 

Leifchild.  Dr.,  241. 

Leigh,  Sir  Egerton,  24,  25  : 
one  of  the  first  Directors  of 
the  Society,  39  ;  40. 

Lekatlong ;  see  Likhatlong. 

Lemuc,  M.,  French  mission- 
ary in  S.  Africa,  5S8,  589, 
614. 

Leocadie  Islands,  45,8. 

Levescpte, Peter  and Jo/in,6^. 

Lewis,  T.,  375. 

Liwis,  Thomas  (Tahiti), 
127,  151,  153;  excom- 
municated for  marrying  a 
heaihen  woman,  156,  157  ; 
death  and  burial,  164,  165. 

Lifu  ( Loyalty  Islands) ,  work 
of  native  teachers  from 
Rarotongaand  Samoa,  353, 
391,413;  arrival  of  Messrs. 
Slacfailane  and  Baker,  and 
their  difficulties  with  the 
French,  413,  414;  a  semi- 
nary e.-tabl ished ,  and  a  code 
of  laws  drawn  up,  414; 
work  of  Messrs.  Creagh, 
Sleigh,  and  Hadfield,  415. 

Likhatlong,  593,  612,  613, 
634.  644. 

Lind,  William  Alexander 
(Tahiti),  331,  332. 

Lingopeng,  612,  613. 

Linyanta,  611,  619. 

Literature  of  Polynesia,  due 
to  missionary  effort,  473. 

Lithubaruba,  598. 

Little  Namaqualand ;  see 
Namaquas. 

Livini^ston  e),  LL.D.,  David 
^S.  Africa),  574;  arrives 
at  Kuruman,  592  ;  differ- 
ences with  Edwards  at 
Mabotsa,  593 ;  determines 
to  open  up  the  interior, 
598  ;  on  the  Zambesi,  599; 
reasons  for  dissolving  con- 
nection with  Society,  602  ; 
outline  of  work,  609-617  ; 
with  Edwards  establishes  a 
mission  at  Mabotsa,  610  ; 
marriage,  610  ;  removes  to 
Scchele's  people  at  Cho 
nuane,  611  ;  removes  to  a 
station  on  the  Kolobeng, 
611;  discovers  Lake  Nga- 
mi,  611;  his  views  on  mis- 
sionary methods,6i2  614; 
discovers  the  Zambesi,6i  5; 
letter  to  Directors  (1851), 


Livingston{e)^  D. — 
615,  616;  journey  to  and 
from  St.  Paul  de  Loanda, 
617;  his  after  career,  death, 
and  interment  in  West- 
minster Abbey,  617;  his 
work  at  Shoshong,  634. 

Lloyd,  Edivin  (S.  Africa), 
638,  647. 

Lobengula,  grants  Hope 
Fountain,  Matabeleland,  to 
missionaries,  627 ;  friendli- 
ness towards  missionaries, 
629  ;  his  death,  630. 

London  Missionary  Society, 
origin  and  formation,  3- 
42  ;  the  '  cradle  '  of  the 
Society,  5 ;  influence  of 
Dr.  Bogue's  address  in  its 
origination,  6,  10;  effect 
of  Home's  'Letters,'  12; 
preliminary  meetings,  12- 
16,  24,  25  ;  Dr.  Burder's 
address,  18  sqq.  ;  sermon 
by  Dr.  Haweis,  26-30 ; 
plan  of  the  Society,  30-32  ; 
unsectarian  basis,  12,  15, 
16,  28,  35,  38,  49,  50,  75  ; 
its  first  name,  30 ;  sermons 
by  Dr.  Bogue  and  others, 
32-37 ;  first  Board  of 
Directors,  39,  40 ;  first 
annual  report  (Oct.  5, 
1795),  40,  41  ;  early  inner 
history,  43-113  ;  rules  for 
the  examination  of  mis- 
sionaries, 43,  44;  appoint- 
ment of  committees,  45, 
78,  99-101 ;  proposal  of 
a  Confession  of  Faith,  48  ; 
its  'fundamental  principle,' 
49,  50  ;  best  means  of  ob- 
taining missionaries,  51- 
54;  insurance  of  mission- 
aries' lives,  54 ;  prepara- 
tion of  candidates,  56,  67 
sqq. ;  the  impression  of 
Directors  that  missionaries 
could  support  themselves, 
56,  86  _(cf.  103),  529; 
subscriptions  for  repairing 
the  loss  of  the  Duff,  62, 
63  ;  meagre  results  of  test- 
ing of  first  sixty  mission- 
aries, 65  ;  appointment  of 
committee  to  consider  plan 
for  the  training  of  mission- 
ary students,  67  sqq. ;  mar- 
riage engagements  of  stu- 
dents, 74;  Scottish  and  Con- 
tinental auxiliaries,  75-77; 

early   method   of  electing 


London  Miss.  Society — 
Directors,  77;  management 
of  finances,   77    sqq.  ;  ap- 
pointment    of    a     Home 
Committee,   81  ;    auxiliary 
societies   in    London    and 
the    provinces,    81  ;     first 
statement  of  accounts,  83- 
85  ;  financial  views  of  the 
founders  in   1818,   85-88; 
change  of  name  in  18 18  to 
the    '  London    Missionary 
Society,'  88  ;  total  amount 
of    funds    to    1895,     88; 
services   rendered    by    Mr. 
Hardcastle  and  others,  89- 
92  ;    scheme   for   evangel- 
istic work  in  France,  92- 
96  ;  work  among  prisoners 
of    war,    93,    96  ;     work 
among   the  Jews,   96-98  ; 
arrangement    of  work    of 
committees   in    18 10,   99- 
loi  ;    outline    of    foreign 
work  from  1795  to  1820, 
101-108  ;     table    of    sta- 
tions   occupied    in     1820, 
106-108  ;  victory  over  the 
East  India  Company,  108, 
IC9  ;    review  of  the    first 
twenty-five    years    of    its 
history,  109-113;  purchase 
and     equipment     of     the 
Duff,      122,      126  ;      first 
valedictory    service,     128, 
129  ;    the  tragic   story  of 
the     Tongatabu    Mission, 
173:    the   Directors  write 
to    Pomare   II,    188 ;    the 
Directors'  apparent  neglect 
of  the  Tahiti  missionaries, 
194;    views   of    Directors 
on    the  Tahitian    mission- 
aries'   plan    of    imparting 
Scripture  knowledge,  204 ; 
mistaken     views     of     the 
Directors  respecting  need 
of  artisan  missionaries,  218, 
219;  correspondence  with 
missionaries  regarding  set- 
tled   incomes,    205,    311, 
.^^3,507,  508,517;  grants 
for  education    of  children 
at    South    Sea    Academy, 
297;       Directors     request 
'candid  opinions'  of  mis- 
sionaries   as    to  condition 
of  work   at  Tahiti,    312  ; 
unfairness  in  its  treatment 
of  Robert  Thomson,  329, 
330 ;    erroneous   views   of 
Directors  regarding  affairs 


INDEX 


817 


London  Miss.  Society — 
at  Tahiti  and  the  Leeward 
Isles,  342,  343;  mission 
to  the  Foulahs  proposed 
and  decided  on,  477,  479; 
begins  the  South  African 
Mission  1^1798),  481-484; 
Directors  appoint  Vander- 
kemp  superintendent  of 
S.  African  missions  the 
day  after  his  death,  516; 
sends  John  Campbell 
as  a  deputation  to  S. 
Africa,  533;  new  code  of 
'  Regulations  for  missions 
in  Africa,'  540.  541  ;  ap- 
pointment of  Dr.  Philip 
as  superintendent  of  mis- 
sions in  S.  Africa,  54 1  ; 
Directors  settle  the  salaries 
of  missionaries  in  Africa, 
543 ;  W.  Thompson  ap- 
pointed agent  at  CapeTown 
(^1850),  569  ;  relinquish- 
ment of  mission-work  in 
Cape  Colony,  573-581; 
resolutions  (1856)  on  S. 
African  churches,  575; 
*  Budget  Dispatches  '  on  S. 
African  churches,  576;  ap- 
pointment of  a  commission 
on  S.  African  churches, 
577  ;  Directors'  decision 
to  commence  missions  to 
the  Makololo  and  the 
Matabele  (1857),  ^^^\ 
deputation  of  R.  W. 
Thompson  to  Phalapye, 
&c.,  639  sqq. ;  resolutions 
for  reopening  of  Madagas- 
car Mission,  711  sq.;  Budget 
Dispatch  No.4,addrcsstd  t  o 
Madagascar  missionaries, 
722  sqq.  ;  resolution  on 
abandonment  of  idolatry  in 
Madagascar,  725  ;  resolu- 
tion against  Government 
interference  in  Malagasy 
churches,  735  ;  scheme  for 
rearrangement  of  Mala- 
gasy Mission,  736  ;  depu- 
tation      to       ^Iadagascar 

(1873).  737. 
.Z^rflf,  y '//<?///ff5(Madagascar^, 

737,  768. 
Love,  John,  of  the  Scotch 
Church,  Artillery  Street, 
12,  13,  14;  secretary  ol 
the  association  of  minis- 
ters, 15,  16,  17,  24,  25,  30; 
appointed  one  of  the  joint 
secretaries  of  the  Society, 

I. 


Love,  J. — 

43;  44,  76,  92,  102,  128, 
481. 

Love,  William,  16. 

Lovedale,  594,  606,  619. 

Loveless,   William    Charles 
(Madras),  74. 

Lowell,     Mr.     (of    Wood- 
bridge),  32. 

Lowjides,    Isaac    (Greece), 
105. 

Loxton,Jas.  (Raiatea),  340. 

Loyalty   Islands,    410-417. 
See  also  Mare,  Lifu,  Uvea. 

Lutheran  ministers,  sympa- 
thy with  the  L.  M.S.,  J 6. 

Lutheran  missionaries,  634, 
769. 

Lyall,  Mr.,  British  Resident, 
Madagascar,  686,  687. 


Mabotsa,  593,596,610,61 1. 

Macao,  144,  149. 

Macaulay,  Zachar}',  477, 
478,  479. 

A/acdonald,  Alexander  (Sa- 
vaii, Samoa),  374,  375.  380. 

Mac/arlane,  LL.D.,  Samuel 
(Loyalty  Islands  and  New 
Guinea),  411  ;  his  work  at 
Lifu,  413,  414,  415,  431; 
visits  New  Guinea,  432, 
436  sqq. ;  his  account  of  the 
eight  New  Guinea  pioneer 
teachers,  432-435;  of  New 
Guinea,  435,  436  ;  returns 
to  Lngland,  440 ;  ap- 
pointed to  New  Guinea 
(Torres Straits\447;  selects 
Murray  Island  as  the  centre 
of  work,  447,  448;  founds 
the  Papuan  Gulf  Native 
College,  448  ;  visits  Eng- 
land (1879),  448  ;  retires 
from  the  New  Guinea  Mis- 
sion, 448,  449;  452  ;  in- 
troduces J.  Chalmers  to  his 
work  in  New  Guinea,  453. 

MacGregor,  Sir  William, 
British  Administrator  at 
New  Guinea,  464,  465,466. 

Macheng,  rightful  chief  ol 
thcBamangwato,6oi ;  635. 

Maikay,  James  George 
(Madagascar),  761. 

Mackay  of  Uganiia,  650. 

Mackenzie,  Bishop,  619. 

Mackenzie,  John  (bouth 
Africa^  appointed  to 
Hankey  (1891),  580;  ar- 
rives at  Kuruman  (,1858', 


Mackenzie,  J. — 
602  ;  commences  the  Mof- 
fat Institution,  606,  637  ; 
becomes  Resident  Com- 
missioner in  Bechwanaland, 
607;  attempts,  with  others, 
to  establish  the  Makololo 
Mission,  619  ;  meets  Roger 
Price  near  Linyanti,  621  ; 
returns  to  Kuruman,  623  ; 
628;  takes  charge  ofSho- 
shong  station,  634 ;  de- 
scribes Khame's  public  pro- 
fession of  Christianity,  635. 

Madagascar :  mission  first 
proposed  by  Dr.  Bogue, 
102;  mission  resolved  upon 
in  1817,  105,  108,  674; 
Vanderkemp  wishes  to 
open  the  work,  505,  510, 
.=^14,.  515,  674;  arrival  of 
David  Jones  and  Thomas 
Bevan,  674  ;  deaths  of  Be- 
van,  his  wife,  and  child, 
and  of  Mrs.  Jones  and 
child,  675 ;  Jones  is  re- 
ceived at  Antar.anarlvo  by 
Radamal,675;  Malagasy 
boys  sent  to  England  to 
be  educated,  676 ;  arrival 
of  Griffiths,  Jeffreys,  and 
others,  676  ;  Bible  transla- 
tion, 677,  678,   680,  685, 

686,  697,  773  sqq.;  state 
of  mission  in  1S24,  678 
sq.;  Radama's  interest  in 
mission-work,  679  ;  arrival 
of  David  Johns  and  others, 
681  ;    printing-press,    681, 

687,  691,  780  ;  manufactur- 
ing cotton,682  ;  artisan  mis- 
sionaries, 682  ;  education, 
682,683,685,  765-771;  ar- 
rival of  deputation,  Tyer- 
man  and  Bennet,  683;  death 
of  Radama  I,  6S3 ;  acces- 
sion of  Ranavalona  (1828), 
683;  the  work  often  years, 
685  sq. ;  dissensions  among 
the  missionaries,  687,  689, 
690,  692,  717,  719  ;  print- 
ing of  the  New  Testament, 
1^1830,  6S7 ;  progress  ol 
miss.on-work,  and  baptism 
of  natives,  687-6S9 ;  fanatic 
outbreak,  692  ;  heathen  re- 
action, and  cilict  suppress- 
ing Chr.slianiiy  U^35  • 
693  s(iq. ;  departure  of 
missionaries,  69*<,  699 ; 
causes  of  suppression  of 
Christianity,  700;  1  crsccu- 


3^ 


8i8 


INDEX 


Madagascar— 
tion  and  martyrdom  of 
converts,  703  sqq. ;  Griffiths 
returns  as  a  trader,  705  : 
drinking  the  tangena,  708  ; 
constancy  of  converts,  708, 
709  ;  visit  of  W.  Ellis  to 
Antananarivo  (1856),  709; 
renewal  of  persecution  of 
Christians.  709,  710  ;  Ra- 
navalonadies,  and  Radama 
II  proclaims  religious  liber- 
ty, 710;  reopening  of  the 
mission,  and  arrival  of  W. 
Ellis  at  the  capital  (1862), 
713  ;  arrival  of  other  mis- 
sionaries, 7 1 3 ;  t  he  designs  of 
Catholic  priests  and  French 
political  agents,  714;  the 
memorial  churches,  715, 
718  sqq.,  726;  political 
revolution,  716;  assassina- 
tion of  Radama  11,  and 
accession  of  Queen  Raso- 
herjna  (1863),  717;  growth 
cf  the  mission  from  1863 
to  1868,  721  sq.  ;  Dr.  Mul- 
lens' Budget  Dispatch,  722 
sqq.,  739;  Queen  Rana- 
valomanjaka's  accession, 
coronation,  and  proclama- 
tion of  religious  toleration, 
725,  726;  baptism  of  the 
queen  and  the  prime  minis- 
ter, 726;  work  of  native  pas- 
tor Andriambelo,  726, 727; 
thequeen  marries  her  prime 
minister,  727;  rapid  pro- 
gress of  mission-work,  727  ; 
missionaries'  letters  mis- 
understood in  London,  727, 
7^8,  745  ;  the  question  of 
State  influence  and  control 
in  matters  of  religion,  728- 
731  ;  destruction  of  the 
national  idols  (1869),  727, 
73 1-734 ;  reinforcements  of 
missionaries  (1869-1873), 
737 ;  visit  of  the  deputa- 
tion, Dr.  Mullens  and  J. 
Pillans,  7 38  sq. ;  confer- 
ence of  missionaries  at  An- 
tananarivo, 738 ;  opening 
of  the  Palace  Church,  739- 
743  ;  number  of  churches 
in  1880,  743-747  ;  number 
of  church  members,  ad- 
herents, Ac,  in  1880,  744; 
tonlribution'5  raised  by  the 
churches,  744 ;  erroneou> 
impressions  in  England, 
745 ;      training      college, 


Madagascar — 
749,  761,  764-767;  na- 
tive pastors,  preachers, 
&c.,  747-750;  number  of 
native  churches,  747  sqq. ; 
church  government  of  na- 
tive churches,  750,  751, 
758  ;  Madagascar  Congre- 
gational Union,  751-753; 
native  missionary  society, 
754;  spread  of  Christianity 
beyond  Imerina,  755-764; 
missionary  districts  of  Ime- 
rina, 756 ;  work  in  Betsileo, 
756-761;  work  in  the  Ant- 
sihanaka  province,  76 1, 762; 
the  Iboina  Mission,  762; 
work  in  the  Betsimisaraka 
district,  and  at  Farafa- 
ngana,  762-764;  Normal 
School,  767,  768  ;  Palace 
School,  768;  Girls'  Central 
School,  768,  769;  elemen- 
tary education,  769-771  ; 
medical  missionary  labour, 
771-773  ;  revision  of  the 
Bible,  774-780  ;  books  and 
periodicals,  780-782  ;  re- 
lations of  the  L.  M.  S.  in 
INTadagascar  with  other 
societies,  783-790;  French 
aggression,  790-792. 

Ma}ala,  native  teacher  at 
Atafu,  420,  421. 

Mahamene,  one  of  the  two 
native  teachers  of  Raiatea 
deputed  to  teach  the  peo- 
ple of  Rurutu,  251,  255. 

Mahine,  King  of  Raiatea, 

H/ain,  Eihvard  (Tahiti), 
47,  127;  attacked  by  na- 
tives, 150 ;  removes  to 
Port  Jackson,  151. 

Maka,  native  teacher  at 
Atafu,  420,  421. 

Makololo,  the,  602,  614, 
615  ;  the  attempted  mis- 
sion to,  618-623  ;  destruc- 
tion of  the  tribe,  623. 

Malaika,  native  teacher  of 
Eifu,  settled  in  Darnley 
Island,  432,  433,  434; 
builds  a  canoe  to  carry 
himto  Murray  Islands,  443. 

Malta,  mission  to,  105,  107. 

Malua  Institution,  Samoa. 
.^''9-394,417,418,426,430. 

Mamusa,  612. 

Mangaia  (Hervey  Islands): 
visit  of  John  Williams  and 
R.  Bourne,  257-259,  263; 


Mangaia — 
282;  welcome  given  to 
Davida  and  Tiere,  native 
teachers  of  Tahaa,  282  ;  re- 
visited by  Williams,  282  ; 
work  of  Maretu,  native 
teacher,  360  ;  visits  of  W. 
Gill,  360  ;  appointment  of 
G.  Gill  as  first  resident  Eu- 
ropean missionary,  360  ; 
valuable  services  of  Dr. 
Wyatt  Gill,  360,  361  ;  the 
change  effected  in  the  island 
by  mission  labours,  362  ; 
services  of  G.  A.  Harris 
and  J.  H.  Cullen,  362, 
363  ;  incidents  of  mission- 
work,  363,  364. 

Manihiki  (Penrhyn  Islands), 
367;  story  of  the  introduc- 
tion of  Christianity  to,  370, 
371 ;  422. 

Manne  Manne  (or  Hua- 
mannemanne),  priest  of 
Eimeo,  135,  138  ;  killed  by 
order  of  Pomare,  159;  his 
influence  at  Tahiti,  and  his 
human  sacrifices,  159, 

Manono  (Samoa),  375,  376, 
380. 

Mantill,  Mr.  (Westbury),  25. 

Manua  (Samoa),  380. 

Manuae   (Hervey   Islands), 

371. 

Manumanu,  place  cho=:en 
for  the  New  Guinea  Mis- 
sion, 443,  444,  446. 

Maretu,  native  teacher  at 
Mangaia,  360. 

Marquesas  Islands,  the,  65, 
134;  arrival  of  Crook  at, 
140;  Crook's  experiences 
at  Santa  Christina  and  Sir 
Henry  Martyn's  Island, 
174,  175;  Crook's  return 
to  England,  174;  271,  282  ; 
attempt  of  Pritchard  and 
Simpson  to  establish  a 
mission  in  1829,  298,  299; 
savage  characteristics  of 
the  people,  299. 

Marriage  of  missionaries, 
resolution  of  Directors  of 
theL.  M.S.,74  ;  with  native 
converts,  503,  504,  535. 

Marriott,  John  (Samoa), 
joint-tutor  with  Dr.  Turner 
of  the  Malua  Institution, 

.393,  397- 
Marsden,  Mr.,  187,  205,  254. 
Martyn,  Henry,  histhougiits 

on  the  battle  of  Blaauw- 


INDEX 


819 


MaitjTi,  H. — 
berg,  487  ;  meets  Vander- 
kemp  at  Cape  'J'own,  487. 

Mart_\rs,  missionary  :  Bow- 
ell,  Gaulton,  and  Harper 
(Tongatabu),  171,  172; 
native  teachers  in  New- 
Guinea,  353  ;  John  Wil- 
liams at  Jirromanga,  377, 
405,  409;  Apolo  and 
Samuela  at  Futuna,  405  ; 
teachers  at  Bampton  Is- 
land, 446;  Anefierea,Taria, 
and  other  native  teachers 
in  New  Guinea,  461. 

Mason,  Mr.,  secretary  of  the 
New  York  Missionary  So- 
ciety, 76. 

Matabele,  the :  Moffat's 
visits  to  the  chief  Mosili- 
katse,  588;  591,  599,  624; 
they  carry  stores  to  Living- 
stone, 599 ;  their  Zulu 
origin,  624  ;  opening  of 
the  mission,  624-627; 
Lobengula  succeeds  Mosi- 
likatse,  627  ;  Lobengula 
grants  Hope  Fountain  to 
the  missionaries,  627  ; 
chief  hindrances  to  mission- 
work,  628  ;  changes  in  the 
mission  staff,  62S,  629 ; 
immigration  of  Europeans 
under  the  auspices  of  the 
British  South  Africa  Com- 
pany, 629  ;  small  results 
of  mission-work,  630  ;  the 
conflict  between  the  British 
South  Africa  Company  and 
Lobengula,  630  ;  improve- 
ment in  native  habits,  631  ; 
their  raid  upon  Shoshong, 
634.  {Sec  also  Inyati  and 
Hope  Fountain.) 

Mataio,  native  teacher  at 
Bampton  Island.  445. 

Mataitai,  native  teacher  of 
Raiatea,  262. 

Matatuhi.  native  teacher  in 
New  Guinea,  461 . 

Matavai,  first  residence  of 
missionaries  at,  138;  Po- 
mare  cedes  to  the  mis- 
sionaries the  district  of, 
1 40  ;  picture  of  the  cession 
of  140,  187  ;  arrival  of  the 
Nautilus  at.  149;  reoc- 
cupied  by  the  missionaries, 
224;  removal  of  Noit  to, 
224.     {See  also  Tahiti. ; 

Matebe,    mission    at,    j;96, 

598- 


Mather,       l.r.c.s.,       &c., 

Charles  Benjatnin   (Cent. 

Africa),  663,  664. 
•Mathieson,  ^Ir.,  missionary 

of  the  Presbyterian  Church 

on  Tanna,  409. 
Motsani,  native  teacher  (S. 

Africa),  645,  646. 
Matthews,  Thomas  Trotter 

(Madagascar),  737.  778. 
Mauke     (Hervey    Islands), 

embraces  Christianity,  259, 

263,   264,  265;    282',  367, 

Maupiti,  one  of  the  Society 
Islands,  254,  340. 

Maura,  one  of  the  Society 
Islands,  250. 

Maurice,  Mr.,  54. 

Mauritius,  Bishop  of,  714, 
762,  784,  787. 

Mauritius,  mission  to,  105, 
107,  674. 

May,  Robert  (N.  India),  74. 

McA'ean,  a.m.,  Thomas 
Smith  (Tahiti),  31. 'i;  acci- 
dentally killed  by  a  mus- 
ket-ball, 319. 

Mead,  Charles  {^.  India),  74. 

Medical  mission  in  Mada- 
gascar, 771-773- 

Meller,  M.A.,  T.  W.  (Bible 
Society),  773. 

Melvill,  Joh  n  (S,  Africa)  ,564. 

Memorial  churches  in  Mada- 
gascar, 715,  718  sqti.,  726. 
{See  also  Ambatonakanga, 
Ambohijiotsy,  Ampamari- 
nana,  Faravohitra,  and 
Fiadanana.) 

Mends,  Herbert,  one  of  the 
first  Directors  of  the 
Society.  39. 

Messenger  of  Peace,  built  by 
J.  Williams  at  Karotonga, 
279;   281  sqq.,  471,  472. 

Messer,  John  George  (S. 
Africa),  536  ;  his  work  at 
Pacaltsdorp,  5,62 ;  sta- 
tioned at  Hankey,  564. 

Miles,  Richard,  appointed 
to  Cape  Town  during  Dr. 
Philip's  absence  in  Eng- 
land, 549. 

Mills,  William  (Upolu,  Sa- 
moa), 374,  375,  380,  417. 

Milne,  D.D.,  William 
(China\  74. 

Milne  Bay,  45S. 

Minutes  of  second  meeting 
in  the  organi7ation  of  the 
L.M.S.,  14-16. 

3G   Z 


Mirambo,  chief  of  Urambo, 
6.52,  653,  656,  661. 

Missionary  Institutions  Bill 
(Cape  Pari.),  577,  578. 

Mitchell,  John,  64. 

Mitiaro  (Hervey  Islands^ 
embraces  Christianity,  259, 
263,  264;  265,  282,  367, 
.S7I. 

Moerenhout,M.,U.S.  consul 
at  Tahiti,  favours  French 
occupation,  307,  30S,  309  ; 
dismissed  from  office  by 
the  United  States,  and 
appointed  French  consul, 
310;  his  intrigue  to  obtain 
a  French  Protectorate,  316. 

Moffat,  John  Smith  (S. 
Africa),  6ot,  602 ;  takes 
charge  of  Kuruman,  605, 
606  ;  differences  with  his 
colleagues.  606,  607  ;  re- 
moves to  Molepolole,6o7  ; 
resigns  his  connection  with 
the  Society,  607  ;  619,  628. 

Moffat,  Mrs.  (wife  of  Dr. 
Moffat),  5S4.  587,  5S8, 
589.  590,  591,  605. 

Moffat,  D.D.,  Robert  (S. 
Africa),  241,  525,  537, 
538  ;  brings  Africaner  to 
Cape  Town.  540,  5S4 ; 
on  the  ability  of  Cape 
Colony  churches  to  support 
themselves,  574;  arrival 
at  Africaner's  kraal,  5S2  ; 
difficulties  of  his  journey 
from  Cape  Town,  583  ; 
obstacles  to  mission-work, 
383,  5S4  ;  wins  Africaner's 
friendship,  5S4  ;  marriage, 
584  ;  arrives  at  Lattakoo 
(Kuruman\  5S4  ;  incidents 
of  his  early  work  at  Kuru- 
man, 5S5,  5S6  ;  visits  the 
Wankeets,  586,  5S7  ;  trans- 
lates the  Gospel  of  Luke 
into  .Sechwana,  58S  ;  prints 
the  Sechwana  Gospel  of 
Luke  at  Cape  Town,  588  ; 
visits  Mosilikatsc,  588,  591; 
returns  to  Kuruman,  589  ; 
difterenccs  with  the 
missionaries  of  Griqua 
Town  and  with  Dr.  Philip, 
591  ;  visits  England  (1839) 
and  translates  the  Psalms 
into  Sechwana,  592 ;  re- 
turns to  Kuruman,  593  ; 
works  at  Old  Tcst-nmcnt 
translation,  505  ;  translate* 
the     nigrinis     J^ogress, 


820 


INDEX 


Moffat,  R.— 
595 ;  visits  Sechelc,  and 
meets  with  Sekhome,  598, 
599 ;  Mosilikatse  accom- 
panies him  towards  the 
Zambesi,  599  ;  completes, 
with  Ashton,  the  trans- 
lation of  the  Scriptures, 
599;  visits  the  Cape  (i858\ 
601  ;  completes  his  fiftieth 
year  of  mission  service 
(1867),  602  ;  farewell  ser- 
mon at  Kuruman  and  de- 
]>arture  to  England,  602- 

604  ;  describes  the  changes 
in  Africa  in  half  a  century, 
604,   605;    death    (1883), 

605  ;  his  eloquent  pleading 
on  behalf  of  missions,  605. 

Moffat  Institution,  606,  607. 

Molepolole,  607,  633,  634; 
mission-work,  648. 

Monro, John  ^S.  Africa), 564. 

Montgomery,  IVilliam  (Ma- 
dagascar), 737,  778. 

Moody,  J.,  of  Warwick,  12. 

Moore,  Elizabeth  (Samoa), 

395.  397- 
Mocre,  Joseph  (Tahiti),  304, 

319- 

Moore,  William,  16. 

Moorea ;   see  Eimeo. 

Moravian  Missionary  So- 
ciety, 8,  II,  20,  75,  500. 

Moresby,  Captain,  445,  446. 

Moresby  Island,  453. 

Moresby,  Port ;  see  Port 
Moresby. 

Morgan,  Captain,  of  the 
Camden,    377,    385,    410, 

471. 

Mormonism,  347. 

Morris,  Mr.,  93. 

Morris,  George  (Tahiti), 
334.  ll^\  344- 

Morrison,  d.d.,  Robert 
China:,  74,104,  105,481. 

Mortimer,  Mr.,  secretary  of 
Lutheran  Ministers'  Asso- 
ciation, 76. 

Mose,  native  teacher  left  by 
Williams  at  Tanna,  377. 

Mosilikatse,  Matabele  chief: 
Moffat's  visits  to  him,  588, 
59^  599 ;  assigns  Inyati 
to  the  missionaries  as  a 
centre  for  their  work,  624  ; 
his  death.  627. 

Moss,  Charles  Frederick 
(.Madagascar  ,  737. 

Moss,  Dr.  C.  h.  A.  (Mada- 
gascar), 772. 


Mothibi,  chief  of  the  Batla- 

ping,  585.  587,  591.  593- 
Motumotu    (New   Guinea), 

449.  459.  4^7- 

Motutala  (Ellice  Islands), 
426. 

Mpwapwa,  652,  662. 

Mtowa,  mission  at,  656. 

Mullens,  D.D.,  Joseph  (N. 
India,  &c.),  576  ;  leads  the 
second  expedition  to  Cent. 
Africa,  and  dies  at  Mpwa- 
pwa, 654,  655  ;  his  Budget 
Dispatch  to  Madagascar, 
722;  visits  Madagascar  with 
J.  Pillans,  737  sqq.,  776. 

Murray,  Archibald  Wright 
(Samoa,  &c.),  374.  37.6  ; 
sends  out  three  native 
teachers,  380 ;  mediates, 
with  other  missionaries,  in 
the  war  between  Laupepa 
and  the  unionists  of  Samoa, 
382 ;  co-operates  with  G. 
Pratt  in  preparing  a  second 
revision  of  the  Samoan 
Bible,  388  ;  retires  from 
the  Malua  Institution,  and 
takes  charge  of  the  station 
at  Apia,  392 ;  member  of 
a  deputation  to  Samoa, 
397;  404;  accompanies 
native  teachers  to  the  New 
Hebrides,  405,  406,  409  ; 
visits  the  Loyalty  Islands, 
410 ;  visits  New  Guinea, 
415,  432;  accompanies 
native  teachers  to  Niue, 
418;  visit  to  the  Ellice 
Islands,  426;  appointed  to 
take  charge  of  the  New 
Guinea  Mission,  440 ;  re- 
moves to  Cape  York,  440, 
442  ;  accompanies  teachers 
to  various  stations  in  New 
Guinea  and  the  islands, 
442  sq. ;  returns  to  Cape 
York,  445. 

Murray  Islands,  437,  443. 
445.  448,  449- 


Namaquas:  mission  of  the 
Albrechts  and  others  at 
Warm  Bath,  526-531  ; 
description  of  the  people 
and  their  country,  528,  529; 
alarms  created  by  Africaner, 
529.  530,  531  ;  destruction 
of  Warm  Bath  station,  531 ; 
visit  ofjohn Campbell,  533; 
work  of  Moffat,  583  ;  584. 


Nanomea  (Ellice  Islands), 
429. 

Napoleon  III,  letter  favour- 
ing religious  toleration  at 
the  Loyalty  Islands,  414. 

Nares,  Captain,  of  the 
Challenger,  447. 

Native  teachers,  &c.,  594, 
73^?  747-750.  See  also, 
(for  Polynesia) :  Adamu, 
Akatanga,  Anederea,  Apo- 
lo  (i),  Apolo  (2),  Anna, 
Cho,  Davida,Elia,  Elikana, 
Fanauara,  Fauvasa,  Fua- 
taiese,  Gucheng,  Gutacene, 
Haavi,  Hafre,  Heneri, 
Josaia,  Keresiano,  Kiri- 
some,  Lalolago,  Mafala, 
Maka,  Malaika,  Maretu, 
Mataio,  Malaitai,  Mata- 
tuhi,  Mose,  Nurii,  Pao, 
Papeiha,  Paulo,  Paumoana, 
Peni,  Peniamina,  Pethin, 
Pi,  Piri,  Pita,  Pomare, 
Rarna,  Rau,  Ruatoka, 
Rupe,  Salamea,  Samuela, 
Saneish,  Simeona,  Simone, 
Taevao,  Taniela,  Taria, 
Tataio,  Taua,  Taunga, 
Tavita,  Teava,  Tepeso, 
Tiere,  Toka,  Tuaana,  Tua- 
hine,  Tute,  Uaunaea,  Vaa, 
Vahapata,  Vahineino,  Wau- 
naea.  (South  Africa)  :  Cu- 
pido,Diphukwe,  Goeyman, 
Khukwe,  Matsani,  Paulo, 
Tzatzoe.  (Madagascar) : 
Andriamamanga,  Andria- 
mbelo,  Andrianalvorave- 
lona.Ralnimanga,  Ralaiari- 
vony,  Ratsilainga.  {^See  also 
Training  institutions  and 
colleges.) 

Nautilus,  the,  arrives  at 
Tahiti,  149;  removes  eleven 
of  the  missionaries  to  Port 
Jackson,  151. 

Navigator  Islands;  i"^<?Samoa. 

Neale,  J.,  one  of  the  first 
Directors  of  Society,  39,49. 

Netherlands  Missionary  So- 
ciety,   76,    105,  484,   514, 

527.  543. 

New,  Captain  (of  the  Dae- 
dalus), 137. 

New  Caledonia,  380,  407, 
410,  411,  415,  431. 

New  Guinea  :  work  of  native 
teachers  from  Tahaa,  349  ; 
work  of  native  teachers 
from  Rarotonga  and  other 
places,     353,     468,     469; 


INDEX 


821 


New  Guinea- 
visit  of  Messrs.  Macfarlane 
and  Murray,  415 ;  un- 
healthiness  of  the  climate, 
431  ;  arrival  of  Messrs. 
Alurray  and  Macfarlane  and 
eight  native  teachers,  432  ; 
first  stations  formed,  433, 
437  sqq. ;  sketch  of  first 
native  teachers,  432-435  ; 
described  by  Dr.  Macfar- 
lane, 435,  436  ;  differences 
between  the  inhabitants  of 
the  eastern  district  and 
those  of  the  Gulf,  439  ; 
Mr.  Murray  takes  tempo- 
rary charge  of  the  mission, 
and,  with  Mr.  Wyatt  Gill, 
accompanies  a  reinforce- 
ment of  native  teachers 
from  the  Her\ey  and  other 
islands,  440  sqq.  ;  deaths  of 
some  of  the  native  teachers, 
445,  446 ;  removal  of 
several  teachers  to  Cape 
York,  446 ;  Manumanu 
chosen  as  the  site  of  the 
mission,  443,  444,  446  ;  gift 
of  the  Ellengowan  to  the 
mission,  446  ;  appointment 
of  S.  Macfarlane  to  Torres 
Straits,  and  of  W.  G.  Lawes 
to  Port  Moresby,  447 ; 
progress  of  mission-work  in 
three  years,  447  ;  Murray 
Island  selected  as  the  per- 
manent centre  of  work,  448  ; 
founding  of  the  Papuan 
Gulf  Native  College,  448  ; 
reinforcements  to  the  mis- 
sion staff  (1880-87,  449; 
abandonment  of  Murray 
Island  as  the  centre  of  the 
mission,  449 ;  development 
of  the  work  at  Port  Moresby, 
449-452 ;  murder  of  Dr. 
James  and  Mr.  Thorngren, 
43.^^1  45^  ;  stations  opened 
in  the  south-east,  45  2  ;  early 
experiences  of  J.  Chalmers, 
4  5  3-458;  opening  of  stations 
at  Leocadie  Islands  and 
Orangeric  liay,  458;  explo- 
ration of  Gulf  of  Papua  by 
J.  Chalmers,  459;  the  Kalo 
massacre,  460,  461  ;  British 
Protectorate  proclaimed 
over  part  of  South-eastern 
New  Guinea,  461  ;  transla- 
tion of  the  Scriptures,  459, 
461,  467  ;  ordination  of  the 
first  native  teacher  of  New 


New  Guinea — 
Guinea,  462  ;  re-proclama- 
tion of  the  Protectorate, 
464  ;  annexation  of  British 
New  Guinea  by  C^reat 
Britain,  465  ;  promulgation 
of  laws,  466  ;  progress  of 
mission-work,  466-469 ; 
additions  to  the  missionary 
staff,  466,  467  ;  successful 
work  at  Kerepunu,  467 ; 
Vatorata  Training  Institu- 
tion, 467  ;  purchase  of  the 
steam-launch  Miro,  468 ; 
districts  worked  by  Austra- 
lian societies,  468;  devotion 
of  native  teachers,  468,  469. 

New  Hebrides,  the  :  work  of 
native  teachers  from  Raro- 
tonga,  353,  405  sqq.  See 
also  Erromanga,  Tanna, 
Aneiteum,  Espiritu  Santo, 
Futuna,  Niua,  and  Vate. 

New  York  Missionary  So- 
ciety, 76. 

A  'ciuell,  Ja  mes  Edu  a  rd  '  S  a  - 
moa),  383;  joint  tutor  at  the 
Malua  Institution,  393,  397. 

Newfoundland,  104. 

Ngami,  Lake :  discovered  by 
Livingstone,  61 1,  621  ;  visit 
of  Hepburn,  636  ;  settle- 
ment of  native  teachers, 
638  ;  temporary  abandon- 
ment of  the  mission,  638. 

Niamkolo,  662,  664,  665, 
667,  669. 

Nicholson,  Isaac,  Principal 
of  Cheshunt  College,  14. 

Nicol,  Mr.,  67. 

Nisbety  Li,.D.,  Henry  (Sa- 
moa, &c.),  380  ;  co-oper- 
ates with  G.  Pratt  in 
revising  the  Samoan  Bible, 
387  ;  takes  charge  of  the 
Malua  Institution, 392 ,  393 ; 
death,  393 ;  attempts,  with 
G.  Turner,  to  start  a  mission 
on  Tanna,  408  ;  visits  Nine, 
417,418. 

Niua  (New  Hebrides),  410. 

Nine  (or  Savage  Island  : 
failure  of  first  attempt  to 
land  teachers,  283,  284, 
417;  arrival  of  teachers, 
289,  391,  417  ;  visit  of 
VV.  Gill  and  H.  Nisbet, 
417;  work  of  Pcniamina 
and  other  teachers,  418; 
visits  of  A.  \V.  Murray  and 
J.  P.  Sunderland,  4I^>  ; 
progress   of  mission-work, 


Nine — 

418-420  ;  \V.  G.  Lawes 
first  resident  missionary, 
419  ;  F.  E.  Lawes  succeeds 
his  brother,  420  ;  statistics 
for  1895,  420;  natives  pre- 
sent New  Guinea  workers 
with  a  vessel,  467. 

Niutao  (Ellice  Islands),  429. 

Nobbs^  Isaac  (Tongatabu), 

J  27,  134- 

Nootka  Sound,  76. 

Normal  Training  and  High 
School,  Leulumoenga  (Sa- 
inoa),  395. 

Norwegian  Missionary  So- 
ciety,738,740,775, 780,790. 

AW/,  Henry  (Tahiti,  &c.), 
64,  127,130,151,  153,155, 
164;  delivers  the  first  pub- 
lic address  at  Tahiti,  177  ; 
180,  190;  visits  camp  of  re- 
bels with  Scott, and  attempts 
to  make  peace,  192  ;  flight 
to  Eimeo,  193;  his  growing 
influence  over  Pomare, 
195  ;  plan  of  instruction 
in  the  Scriptures,  203  ;  con- 
versation with  Patii  the 
priest,  206,  207  ;  preaches 
to  large  congregations  at 
Tahiti,  212;  translation  of 
the  Scriptures,  215,  216, 
227,  280;  settles  at  Mata- 
vai,  224,  225;  228,  229, 
230 ;  the  chief  power  in 
the  first  twenty-five  years 
of  the  Polynesian  Mission, 
23^,  304;  245»  270;  visits 
England,  294,  303 ;  com- 
pletes his  translation  of 
the  Scriptures,  300;  301- 
303  ;  presents  a  copy  of  his 
Tahitian  Bible  to  Queen 
Yictoria  during  his  visit  to 
England,  303;  his  death 
at  Tahiti  in  1844,  304;  his 
character,  and  the  greatness 
of  the  work  he  accom- 
plished, 304.  305  ;  incident 
during  a  visit  to  his  native 
jilacc  (Bromsgrove  ,  305 
note  ;  his  farewell  address 
at  Carr's  Lane  Chapel  in 
1S26,  305  note;  315,  339: 
his  Tahiiian  Bible  forms 
the  basis  of  Bible  transla- 
tions for  other  South  Sea 
Islands,  357,  359;  481. 

Nottingham,  Caicy  preaches 
famous  sermon  at,  4. 

Nui  .EUicelslands), 426,439. 


822 


INDEX 


Nuknfetau  (Ellice  Islands), 
436,  42S. 

Nukulaelae  (Ellice  Islands), 
425.  426,  429. 

Nukunono  ^Tokelau  Is- 
lands), 421. 

Nurii,  native  teacher  of 
Eimeo,  345. 

Oakes,     Francis     (Tahiti), 

127,  151- 

Oito,  a  praying  native  of 
Tahiti,  201. 

Old  Jewry,  offices  of  the 
Society  in  1S14  in,  90. 

Old  Swan  Stairs,  No.  9, 
offices  of  Messrs.  Hard- 
castle  and  Reyner  at,  89, 
90  and  note. 

Olive  Branch,  the,  298,  299. 

Onoatoa  (Gilbert  Islands), 
430. 

Ooru  (Oro),  god  of  Tahiti, 

143, 178,197?  235' 245. 250- 

Order  in  Council  for  im- 
proving the  condition  of 
Hottentots  (1828),  550,553. 

Ordination,  request  by  two 
candidates  for,  118. 

Orepiah  (or  Temare),  a 
chief  of  Tahiti  and  uncle 
of  Otoo,  158,  159. 

Orme,  William,  one  of  the 
foreign  secretaries  of  the 
Society,  92. 

Orsmond,  John  Muggridge 
(Eimeo,  &c.),  214,  217  ;  re- 
moves from  Eimeo  to 
Huahine,  218,  243  ;  takes 
charge  of  the  academy  for 
the  children  of  missionaries 
in  Eimeo,  224,  274,  297; 
242,  250  ;  on  the  question 
of  missionaries  bartering, 
311  ;  his  connection  with 
L.  M..S.  ceases  owing  to 
his  political  support  of  the 
French  Government,  319, 
326;  as  Government  offi- 
cial appoints  over  churches 
native  students  unfit  for 
the  position,  331. 

Otaheite;  j^<rTahiti,  also  1 1 7. 

Otu  (or  Otoo),  King  of 
Tahiti,  136,  138,  J  39;  en- 
raged against  the  mission- 
aries, 151,155;  158,  159; 
his  evil  character,  160; 
carries  off  the  god  Oro, 
178;  receives  religious  in- 
striiction,  1 79 ;  assumes 
the  name  of  Pomare  on  the 


Otu— 

death    of  his  father,    183. 
(vSV^  also  Pomare  11.) 
Oudtshoorn,  mission  at,  576, 

577,  ^1^' 
Ox  Kraal,  578. 

Paarl,  mission  at,  540,  563, 
568,  578. 

Facalt,  Carl  (S.  Africa),  74, 
509,  510,  537;  the  founder 
of  Pacaltsdorp,562;  death, 
562. 

Pacaltsdorp  (formerly 

Hooge  Kraal),  mission 
station  at,  537,  538,  540  ; 
death  and  bequest  of  its 
founder,  562  ;  missionaries 
stationed  there,  and  the 
great  success  of  the  institu- 
tion, 562,  563;  577,  578. 

Pahi,  brother  of  Tamatoa 
and  first  Chief  Justice  of 
Raiatea,  248. 

Pakenham,  Mr.,  English 
consul  at  Antananarivo, 
714. 

Palmer,-L.R.C.s.l.,  Scc.JVal- 
ter  Stephen  (Cent.  Africa, 
&c.),656,  657. 

Pao,  native  teacher  at  Lifu, 

4^3- 
Papara  (Tahiti),   223,    224, 

225,  319- 

Papeete  (capital  of  Tahiti), 
217,  223,  298,  314,  319, 
321,  322,  323,  325,  329, 
331. 

Papeiha,  native  teacher  of 
Raiatea,  settled  at  Aitutaki, 
253;  256,  257;  his  courage- 
ous conduct  at  Mangaia, 
258,  259;  settles  at  Raro- 
tonga,  261;  success  at  Raro- 
tonga,  275,  276;  418,  474. 

Papetoai  (Eimeo),  216,  223. 

Papuan  Gulf  NativeCollege, 
448. 

Paris  Evangelical  Mission- 
ary Society,  335,  338,  589. 

Parker,  M.R.C.S.,  George 
Williavi  (Madagascar), 
737,  757- 

Parrett,JohnQsl2i^2igz.%zz.x) , 
713- 

Parry,  Mr.  (of  Little  Bad- 
dow),  25. 

Parry,  Griffith,  64. 

Parsons,  Edward,  32 ;  ap- 
pointed one  of  the  first 
Directors  of  the  Society,39, 

Patii,  priest  of  Eimeo,  206.  , 


Paton,  Mr.,  missionary  of 
the  Presbyterian  Church  ou 
Tanna,  409. 

Patteson,  Bishop,  789. 

Paulo,  native  teacher  at 
Niue,  418. 

Paulo,  native  teacher  in 
S.  Africa,  598. 

Paumoana,  native  teacher  of 
Raiatea,  262. 

Peace  Mountain,  mission  at ; 
see  Africaner's  kraal. 

Feake,  L.R.C.P.,  &c.,  George 
Henry  (Madagascar),  773. 

Peake,  Philip  George  (Mada- 
gascar), 737,  773. 

Pearse,  Albert  (Raiatea  and 
New  Guinea),  349,  350, 
351,  466,  467. 

Pearse,  Joseph  (Madagas- 
car), 722  ;  his  labours  in 
Antsihanaka,  761  ;  773. 

Peill,  Jeremiah  (Madagas- 
car), 737,  767. 

Pelew  Islands,  39. 

Pelissier,  M.,  French  mis- 
sionary in  S.  Africa,  589. 

Peni,  native  teacher  at  Ellice 
Islands,  429. 

Peniamina,  native  teacher  at 
Niue,  417,  418. 

Penrhyn  Islands  ;  see  Mani- 
hiki,  Rakaanga,  and  To- 
ngareva. 

Pen7y^  John  (Cent.  Africa), 
658,  661. 

Percy,  W.,  33,  38. 

Peru  (Gilbert  Islands),  430. 

Pestilence  :  at  Rarotonga, 
283  ;  at  other  islands,  298. 

Pethin,  native  teacher,  set- 
tled in  New  Guinea,  442. 

Pewtress,  Mr.,  93. 

Phalapye,  629,632,634  ;  be- 
comeslvhame'scapital,638. 

*  Philadelphos,'  essay  by, 
51-53. 

Philip,  D.D.,  John  (S. 
Africa),  536  ;  appointed 
superintendent  of  S.  African 
missions,  539,  541  ;  accom- 
panies John  Campbell  to 
several  stations,  540  ;  be- 
comes pastor  of  Union 
Chapel,  Cape  Town,  540  ; 
efforts  on  behalf  of  natives 
of  Cape  Colony,  541,  544, 
546  ;  his  description  of 
the  condition  of  Bethels- 
dorp,  547  -  549  ;  visits 
England,  and  publishes 
Researches       in       South 


INDEX 


823 


Philip,/.— 
Africa,  549 ;  action  for 
libel  against  him  at  the 
Cape,  550 ;  hostility  of 
colonists  towards  hira,  549 
sqq-,  559;  good  results 
effected  by  his  book,  550- 
552  ;  opposes  the  attempt 
to  pass  a  new  ordinance 
for  renewing  the  oppression 
of  natives,  558  ;  his  super- 
intendence of  mission-work. 
561  sqq. ;  his  resignation 
and  death,  569,  570  ;  his 
vigorous  administration, 
570;  assistance  rendered 
by  his  wife,  569  ;  his  differ- 
ences with  Moffat,  591. 

Philip,  B.  A.,  7'homasDurant 
(S.  Africa  .  564,  577. 

Phillip,  IV'illiatn  (S.Africa), 

Philippolis,  576. 

Philipion,  566,  578. 

Phillips,  Charles  (Samoa), 
lakes  pastorate  of  church  at 
Graaf}  Re inet, S.Africa, 58 1. 

Phillips,  Dr.  (of  Neuadd- 
Iwyd  ,  674. 

Pi,  native  teacher  in  New 
(iuinea,  463. 

Pickersgill,  William  Clay- 
/i?«  (Madagascar;, 654,  737, 
762. 

Pilgriiii's  Progress,  trans- 
lated into  Sechwana,  595  ; 
Malagasy  translation,  696. 

779'  7^0- 
Pillans,  John,  visits  Mada- 
gascar with    Dr.  Mullens, 

737  sqqv  776. 

Piri,  native  teacher,  settled 
in  New  Guinea,  442,  444, 
446,  460. 

Piia,  native  teacher  of 
Samoa,  sent  to  Tanna,  380. 

J^ilinan,  Charles  (^Raroton- 
ga  ,  arrives  at  Raiatca,  274  ; 
goes  to  Rarotonga,  275 
sqq.  ;  283 ;  services  in  trans- 
laung  liible  for  Rarotonga, 
357  ;  period  of  service,  and 
death,  359. 

Plait,  George  (Raiatea,  &cO, 
arrives  at  Eimeo,  214;  217, 
218,  220,  221  ;  with  Henry 
forms  a  Christian  church 
at  Eimeo,  223  ;  removes  to 
Borabora,  224;  230,  241, 
282,  340,  344;  his  pro- 
longed services  to  the  .So- 
ciety, and  death,  345  ;  351 ; 


Plan,  C— 
visit  to  Samoa,  375  ;  shares 
in  translating  the  Bible  in- 
to Samoan,  384. 

Piatt,  \V.  F.,  14,  15,  17,  24; 
appointed  one  of  the  first 
Directors  of  the  Society, 
39;  49,  128. 

Politics,  interference  of 
missionaries  in,  278,  307 
sqq.,  510-513,  543,  544. 

Polygamy,  the  question  of, 
at  Rarotonga,  276,  277; 
amongst  Bushmen,  521  ; 
among  Kafirs,  556. 

Pomare,  native  teacher  of 
Samoa,  sent  to  Tanna,  380. 

Pomare  I,  former  King  of 
Tahiti,  136  ;  cedes  Ma- 
tavai  to  the  missionaries, 
140;  promises  to  i)rohibit 
human  sacrifices  of  thearre- 
oies,  142  ;  150  ;  wishes  mis- 
sionaries to  instruct  him  in 
the  art  of  war,  155  ;  punishes 
assailants  of  the  mission- 
aries, 155;  orders  the  mur- 
der of  Mannemanne,  159; 
attachment  to  idolatry,  1 78, 
179,  181,  182  ;  death,  181 ; 
his  character  and  appear- 
ance, 181,  1S2  ;  l)is  protec- 
tion of  missionaries,  182, 
183  note. 

Pomare  II,  name  assumed  by 
Otu  on  death  of  his  father, 
183  ;  learns  to  write,  185  ; 
sends  letter  to  missionaries, 
1 86  ;  receives  letter  from 
Directors  and  sends  reply, 
188,189;  flight  to  Kimeo  on 
outbreak  of  rebellion,  193, 
Nott's  influence  over  him, 
195;  desires  baptism,  I96, 
197 ;  letters  to  the  mis- 
sionaries, 198-200;  a  slave 
to  drinking,  but  desirous  of 
being  the  first  to  receive 
baptism,  205  ;  visits  Tahiti 
and  sides  with  the  J^itre 
Alua  in  defending  them- 
selves against  an  attack  of 
the  idolaters,  209,  210; 
reinstated  in  his  govern- 
ment at  Tahiti,  21 1  ;  sends 
bis  family  idols  to  the  mis- 
sionaries, 213;  prints  the 
first  sheet  of  the  first  book 
l)ublishetl  in  S.  Sea  Islands, 
215;  his  great  chapel,  219, 
220;  pronnilgattsilie  laws, 
221,     2:2;     ins    baptism, 


Pomare  II — 
223;  an  heir  is  bom  to 
him,  225  ;  scandalous  life 
of  his  daughter  Aimata, 
225  ;  his  twofold  nature  as 
exhibited  in  extracts  from 
Crook's  journal,  226  sqq. ; 
last  days  and  death,  229, 
230;  his  stature,  bulk,  and 
general  character,  231;  233; 
his  holograph  of  a  portion 
of  Nott's  translation  of  New 
Testament,  234,  301. 

Pomare  lII,educatedatS.Sea 
Academy,  297;  death,  297. 

Pomare  V,  337. 

Pomare  Vahine  IV,  291 ;  her 
vicious  character,  299  ;  re- 
fuses permission  to  French 
priests  to  remain  at  Tahiti, 
308,  30^ ;  compelled  to 
apologize  to  the  French 
and  to  pay  a  fine,  310; 
signs  a  treaty  giving  liberty 
to  Catholics,  311;  lorced  to 
sign  a  request  for  a  French 
Protectorate,  317;  fruitless 
appeal  to  Kngland,  318  ; 
reluses  to  hoist  French  flag, 
3 1 S ;  takes  refuge  at  Raialca, 
320;  submits  lo  French, 325 
{see  also  French  in  Tahiti  1 ; 
attends  public  worship  a- 
gain,327;remainsfaithfiilto 
Protestantism,  335  ;  death, 

.^37;  34'.  34^..  343;  her 
husband  is  trained  as  a 
l)reacher,  343. 

J'ool,  llilliafit  (Madagas- 
car). 719,  721,  745. 

Port  Elizabeth,  mission  at, 
568,  578. 

Port    Moresby,    446,    447, 

449-452,  46' >  464.  467. 

Powell,  Thomas  , Samoa j, 
3S2,  397  ;  his  work  at 
Aneiteum,  406. 

Pratt,  George  vSamoa\  371^. 
3S0  ;  cooperates  with  Dr. 
Nisbet  in  revising  Sa- 
moan Hiblc,  3S7;  prepares, 
with  A.  Murray,  a  second 
revision  of  the  Samoan 
Bible,  388  ;  his  services  in 
Bible  translation,  388  ;  vi^il 
to  Gill>ert  Islands,  430. 

Press,  free,  establishment  in 
Cape  Colony  of  a,  557. 

/V/<r,  Charles  Thomas 
(.Madag.iscar\  758. 

Trice,  A'oger^a.  Africa), 602; 
superintendent    al    Kuru- 


824 


INDEX 


Price,  K.— 

man.  6c6-6oS  ;  nttenipts 
to  establish  the  Makololo 
Mission,  619;  arrives  at  Lin- 
yanti,63i;  death  of  his  wife, 
6>2;  returns  to  Kuruman, 
623 ;  his  work  at  Shoshong, 
634;  visits  King  Khame 
with  R.  W.  Thompson, 
639  sqq. ;  leads  first  Central 
African  expedition  as  far  as 
Kirnsa,  650,  651. 

Priestley,  T.,  1 0. 

Printing- ptess,  introduction 
to  S.  Sea  Islands  of,  214- 
017;  243,  298,  333,  357; 
at  Faleldtai,  384-387  5  ^^ 
Kuruman,  588,  589,  595  ; 
in  Madagascar,  681,  682, 
687,  691,  697,  780. 

Prisoners  of  war,  French 
and  Dutch,  mission-work 
among,  93,  96. 

Pritchard,  George  (Tahiti), 
282,  293  ;  attempts,  with 
Simpson,  to  found  a  mis- 
sion at  the  Marquesas  in 
1S29,  298,  299;  acting 
British  consul,  307 ;  his 
conflict  with  Moerenhout, 
U.S.  consul,  and  the 
French  priests^  307,  308; 
appointed  consul  by  British 
Government,  310  ;  con- 
nection with  L.  M.  S.  dis- 
solved, 310;  attempts  to 
combine  consular  with 
mission-work,  311,  315; 
elected  pastor  of  the  church 
at  Papeete,  315  ;  bitter 
feeling  of  some  of  the 
missionaries  towards  him, 
315;  obnoxious  to  French, 
31.;  ;  visits  England,  315  ; 
returns  to  Tahiti,  and  op* 
poses  the  French  occupa- 
tion, 318  ;  imprisoned  by 
the  P'rench  governor,  319. 

Pritchard,  George  (son  of  the 
above;,  382. 

Province  of  Queen  Adelaide, 
554- 

Puck^,  James  ^Tvihiix),  127; 
goes    to     Port     Jackson, 

Puckey,  IVilliam  (Tahiti), 
137;  attacked  by  natives, 
1 50  ;  removes  to  Port  Jack- 
^'^^  '5»,  J57- 

J'ukapuka,  or  Oangerlsland, 
scene  of  wreck  of  first  John 
Williams,  372,  471. 


Puna,  one  of  the  two  native 
teachers  of  Raiatea  deputed 
to  teach  the  people  of  Ru- 
rutu,  251  ;  255. 

Pye-Smith,  Dr.,  374. 


Radama  I,  receives  David 
Jones  at  Antananarivo,  and 
invites  missionaries,  675  ; 
protection  to  missionaries, 
678;  encouragement  of 
education,  679;  death, 
683. 

Radama  II,  his  accession, 
710;  coronation,  714;  his 
friendship  with  Ellis,  717  ; 
approves  Christianity,  but 
sanctions  heathen  customs, 
717;  assassinated,  717. 

Radford,  Joseph,  15. 

Raiatea,  136  and  note  i ; 
evangelistic  visit  of  Nott 
and  Hayward,  191 ;  idola- 
try renounced  by  Tamatoa 
and  many  of  the  people, 
212,  246;  a  rebellion  of 
idolaters  quelled,  212;  visit 
of  the  deputation  of  the 
L.  M.  S.,  235  ;  arrival  of 
Williams  and  Threlkeld, 
243  ;  description  of  the  is- 
land, 245 ;  the  centre  of 
the  worship  of  Oro,  245 ; 
first  annual  report  of  mis* 
sion-work,  246 ;  formation 
of  an  auxiliary  missionary 
society,  247  ;  rapid  acqui- 
sition of  craftsmanship  by 
the  natives,  247  ;  improve- 
ment in  domestic  customs, 
248  ;  publication  of  a  code 
of  laws,  and  introduction 
of  trial  by  jury,  248  ;  ar- 
rival of  people  from  Ruru- 
tu,  250,251;  arrival  of  idols 
from  Rurutii,  252,  253; 
planting  of  sugar-cane  and 
the  culture  of  tobacco,  255, 
266 ;  progress  of  Christian- 
ity and  inconsistencies  of 
professors  as  reflected  in 
letters  from JohnWilliams, 
272-274;  building  of  new 
church,  274  ;  death  of  Tua- 
hine,  280;  return  of  Wil- 
liams, 281  ;  340,343-345; 
Tamatoa  II  banished  for 
murder,  and  Tahitoe  pro- 
claimed king,  349 ;  banish- 
ment of  Tahitoe,  350 ;  an- 
nexed by  French,  350. 


Rainimanga,  native  teacher, 

Madagascar,  741,  776, 
Rakaanga(Penrhynlslands), 

370.  371. 

Ralalarivony,  native  teacher, 
Madagascar,  777. 

Ralarosy,  Dr.  (Madagascar), 
772. 

Ralph,  Mr.,  33. 

Ranavalomanjaka,  Queen  of 
Madagascar,  725;  corona- 
tion, and.  proclamation, 
726;  her  baptism,  726; 
orders  destruction  of  idols, 
731-734;  receives  deputa- 
tion. Dr.  Mullens  and  J. 
Pillans,  738. 

Ranavalona,  Queen  of  Mada- 
gascar, 683,  684  ;  opposes 
Christianity,  684,  688 ; 
withdraws  restrictions  on 
Christian  teaching,  689 ; 
issues  edict  for  the  suppres- 
sion of  Christianity,  693- 
695 ;  her  persecution  of 
Christians,  695  sq.,  703  sqq.; 
her  death,  710. 

Rapa,  island  of,  283,  298 ; 
visit  of  C.  Barff  and  Chis- 
holm,  348;  351. 

Rarna,  native  teacher  in 
New  Guinea,  462. 

Rarotonga  (Rarotoa),  254, 
257;  discovered  by  John 
Williams,  261,  264;  rough 
treatment  of  Christian 
teachers  and  their  wives, 
261,  264;  Papeiha,  of 
Raiatea,  resolves  to  remain, 
261,264;  arrival  of  Tiberio, 
native  teacher  of  Raiatea, 
262  ;  idolatry  renounced, 
262  ;  progress  of  mission- 
work,  and  visit  of  R.  Bourne. 
274;  prolonged  visit  of 
John  Williams,  275-279; 
arrival  of  Charles  Pitman, 
275 ;  difficulties  and  success 
of  Papeiha  and  Tiberio, 2  75, 
276 ;  new  church  built,  276  ; 
new  code  of  laws  intro- 
duced, 276;  Williams  and 
Pitman  settle  difficulties 
arising  from  abandonment 
of  polygamy,  277;  political 
interference  by  missionaries, 
278;  Williams  builds  the 
Messenger  of  Peace,and  sails 
to  Aitutaki  and  Tahiti, 
279,  280,  281  ;  arrival  of 
Aaron  Buzacott,  280;  282  ; 
Buzacott   forms    the    first 


INDEX 


S25 


Rarotonga — 
Christian  church  at  Avarna, 
352  ;  Rarotongan  New  Tes- 
tament. 352;  establishment 
of  training  institution  for 
native  preachers,  352;  work 
accomplished  by  native 
preachers,  353  ;  results  of 
mission-work  from  1828  to 
1857,  354-356;  work  of 
Bible  translation,  356-359; 
principal  missionary  work- 
^^s,  359;  Miss  Ardill's 
school  work,  359,  360; 
arrival  of  Catholic  priests 
and  Seventh  Day  Advent- 
ists,  360;  printing  of  an 
abridgement  of  the  Gospels 
and  Acts  in  Samoan,  384; 
departure  of  native  teachers 
for  New  Guinea,  441. 

Rasoherina,  Queen  of  Mada- 
gascar, accession  of,  717; 
will  not  hinder  Christian 
teaching,  717;  death,  725. 

Ratsilainga,  native  pastor 
(Madagascar),  741. 

Ran,  native  teacher  ofRaro- 
tonga,  settled  in  New 
Guinea,  441,  444,  446. 

Ravavai,  island  of.  298 ; 
visit  of  C.  Barff  and  Chis- 
holm,  347.  348;  351. 

Ray,  John  Mead,  33  ;  one  of 
the  first  Directors  of  the  So- 
ciety, 39. 

Rayson,  Mr.,  241, 

Read,  James  d)  (S.  Africa), 
64,  176,  487,  493;  joins 
Vanderkemp  at  Graaff  Rei- 
net,494,495;  498;  marries 
a  Hottentot,  503,  504, 535  ; 
505,  506;  elected  minister 
of  Rethclsdorp,  507 ;  visits 
Kafirland,  509  ;  pleads  for 
justice  to  Hottentots,  510, 
51 1 ;  visits  Cape  Town  with 
Vanderkemp  to  interview 
I.ord  Caledon,  512,  513; 
retumsto  Bethelsdorp,5i3; 
appointed  superintendent  of 
.S.  African  missions,  517; 
charges  brought  against 
him  by  G.  Thom,  535, 
536 ;  548 ;  at  Kat  River 
Settlement,  566  ;  gives  evi- 
dence before  the  House  of 
Commons  Committee  on 
the  treatment  of  natives, 
566 ;  his  work  and  influence 
of  fifty  years,  ;  7 1 ;  his  work 
at  Lattakoo,  584,  585. 


Read,  James  (2)  (S.  Africa^ 

Read,  William  (Tahiti  and 

Ceylon),  176. 
Red  Cross  Street  Library,!  2. 
Redfem,  Dr.,  229. 
KedscarBay,  439,  443,  445. 
Rees,  Bo-iuen  (S.  and  Cent. 

Africa\  629,  662. 
Reeve,  William  (S.  India), 

74. 

Reformed  Presbyterian 

Church  of  Scotland,  407. 

Regulations  for  missions  in 
Africa,  540,  541. 

Reid.  John  Ediinn  (S. 
Africa),  638. 

Relation  of  the  L.  M.S. 
with  other  Societies,  737. 

Religious  Tract  Society, 
founding  of,  41.  90  ;  its  co- 
operation with  the  L.M.S., 
96;  III  note, 330,697,781. 

Revival  of  religion  iti  the 
18th  century,  3,  19,  20. 

Reyner,  Mr.,  Joseph  Hard- 
castle's  partner,  89,  104. 

Re>Tiolds,  John,  of  Camo- 
mile Street  Church,  13,  16, 
17,  24,  30  ;  one  of  the  first 
Directors  of  the  Society, 
39,  128,  129. 

Rhenish  Missionary  Society, 
537  note,  575. 

Rich  Fountain,  -Anderson's 
first  station  among  the 
Korannas,  523. 

Richards,  William  Edward 
(Madras  and  Raiatea),  349, 
350,  351. 

Richardson,  James  (Mada- 
gascar\  737,  757,  767. 

Rimatara,  one  of  the  Austral 
Islands,  253.  2S2;  visit  of 
liarff  and  Chisholm,  347  ; 

351. 

Rint^eliaube,  JVillinm  To- 
bias (S.  India\  104. 

Riordan,  John    (Madagas- 

c-ir).  737.  757. 

Roberts,  Josiah,  100. 

Robin,  ^I.,  secretary  to 
Kadama  I,  6*>i. 

Robson,  Captain,  59,  60,62. 

Roby,  William.  15,  83. 

Kodczand,  488,  519,  537. 
(See  also  Tulbagh.") 

Rodgerson,  John  (Marque- 
sas, &c.),  on  the  condition 
ofpeopleof  Borabora,  343. 

Rogers,  Thomas  (^Madagas- 
car), 737,  757. 


Rolland,  M.,  French  Protes- 
tant missionary  in  S.  Africa, 
588,  5S9. 

Roma,  chief  of  Atiu,  Mitiaro, 
and  Mauke,  259,  260. 

Rooker,  Mr.,  14,  33. 

Ross,  William  ,S.  Africa), 

593- 

Rotuma,  landing  of  two 
teachers  by  John  Williams 
at,  376. 

Rowlands,  Thomas  {"Mada- 
gascar ,  677,  6S0,  682. 

Roval  Admiral,  65,  66, 
i7'6. 

Royle,  Henry  (Aitutaki), 
his  long  and  successful  la- 
bours, 364,  365,  366.  36S. 

Ruatoka,  native  teacher  of 
Rarotonga,  settled  in  New 
Guinea,  441  ;  his  great 
work,  442;  444,  446,  474. 

Rules  for  the  examination 
of  missionaries,  43,  44. 

Rupe.  native  teacher  of 
Aitutaki.  367,  368.369;  the 
first  student  of  the  Raro- 
tongan  Institution,  369. 

Rurutu,  one  of  the  Austral 
Islands  :  the  destruction  of 
idols  and  conversion  of 
people,  250-253  :  progress 
made  by  the  teachers,  255  ; 
282  ;  visit  of  C.  Barflf  and 
Chisholm,  346,  347;  351. 

Russell,  Alexander  (Fou- 
lahs),  479,  4S0. 

Russia,  mission  to,  105,  107. 

Ryan,  Bishop,  784,  787. 

Ryland,  Dr.,  receives  the 
first  letter  from  Carey  since 
his  arrival  in  India,  5. 

vSaibai,  island  of,  434.  438. 

St.  Paul's  Coffee  House,  63, 
89. 

St.  Saviour's  Church,  Sonth- 
wark,  50. 

Salamea,  native  teacher  left 
by  Williams  at  Tanna,  377. 

.Salisbury,  Lord,  acknow- 
ledges the  French  Protec- 
torate in  Madagascar,  792. 

Saltern,  John,  30,  32  ;  one 
of  the  first  Directors  of  the 
Society,  39,  44. 

Samarai  (Dinner  Island), 
458,  466. 

Samoa  :  landing  of  John 
Williams  in  1S30.  373  ; 
visit  of  BarfT  and  Huzacott 

"1  '«34.   373,    374;    fi"' 


826 


INDEX 


Samoa — 
arrival  of  missionaries, 
374;  mediation  of  mission- 
aries and  others  in  1S70, 
3S2  ;  autonomy  guaranteed 
by  the  Convention  between 
Germany,  England,  and 
the  United  States  in  1S88, 
3S3;  war  of  1894,  383; 
translation  of  the  Bible, 
3S4,  3S6-388 ;  Malua  In- 
stitution and  educational 
work,  3S9-396  ;  Normal 
Training  School  at  Apia, 
395;  Central  Girls' School, 
Papauta,  395  ;  clan  life 
and  village  government, 
396 ;  mission  workers  of 
later  years,  397  ;  report  of 
the  deputation  of  1888, 
397-403 ;  .  conditions  of 
church  membership,  398  ; 
election  of  native  pastors, 
400  ;  meetings  of  pastors, 
400 ;  committee  of  mis- 
sionaries, 401  ;  form  of 
church  government,  401  ; 
prosperous  condition  of 
the  mission,  402,  403  ; 
numberof  church  members, 
&c.,  in  1895,  397;  out- 
stations  {see  New  Hebrides, 
Loyalty  Islands,  Niue, 
Gilbert  Islands,  and  EUice 
Islands,  &c.).  {See  also 
Savaii,  Upolu,  Tutuila, 
Manua,  and  Manono.) 

Samuela,  native  teacher 
settled  at  Futuna,  405. 

Sandwich  Islands,  65,  271  ; 
labours  of  Tute  for  thirty- 
three  years,  345,  346,  429. 

Saneish,  native  teacher  set- 
tled in  New  Guinea,  442. 

Sass,  Christopher  (S.  Af- 
"^;>  53'  ;  stationed  at 
Silver  fountain,  532  ;  at 
Bethesda,  537;  at  Theo- 
polis,  563. 

lavage,  Edwin  Bent  ley 
(New  Guinea;,  449. 

Savage  Island  ;  see  Niue. 

Savaii  (Samoaj  :  John 
Williams  and  C.  Barff 
bring  eight  teachers,  287  ; 
interview  of  Williams  and 
Earff  with  the  king,  Ma- 
lietoa,  288;  373;  visit  of 
C.  liarff  and  A.  liuzacott  in 
'^34»  373.  374 ;  desire  of 
the  people  to  have  the  new 
religion,  373,  374:  arrival 


Savaii  — 
of  missionaries  ( 1 836) ,  375 ; 
formation    of  a   Christian 
church,  376  ;    progress  of 
mission-work  to  1S40,  379. 

SavilU,  Alfred  Thomas 
(Huahine),  349,  351. 

Schmelen,  John  Henry  (S. 
Africa),  5.^1,  532,  537. 

Schools :  South  Sea  Aca- 
demy, 224,  274,  296,  297  ; 
Apia  Protestant  School, 
394;  NormalTraining and 
High  School,  Leulu- 
moenga  (Samoa),  395  ; 
Central  Girls'  School,  Pa- 
pauta (Samoa),  395  ; 
school  for  children  of 
missionaries  at  Hankey, 
564;  of  Madagascar,  678, 
682,  683,  685,  767-771. 

Schultze,  Wilhelmine  F.L. 
V.  (Samoa),  395,  397. 

Scotland,  auxiliaries  of  the 
L.  M.  S.  in,  75,  76. 

Scots'  Hall,  meetings  at,  51, 

53- 

Scott,  B.A.,  George  Frederick 
(Samoa),  397. 

Scott,  Harry  (New  Guinea), 
449. 

Scott,  James  Tail  (New 
Guinea),  449, 

Scott,  Jonathan,  15. 

Scott,  William  (Tahiti)  ,176, 
179,  182;  attempts  to 
make  peace  with  the  rebels, 
192  ;  riight  to  Kimeo,  193  ; 
retires  to  Huahine,  and 
then  to  Port  Jackson,  193, 
194;  returns  to  Eimeo, 
196  ;  200;  death,  205. 

Scratchley,  Sir  Peter,  first 
British  commissioner  at 
New  Guinea,  464. 

Sebele  (Sechele's  eldest  son), 
635,  641,  644,  648. 

Sebituane,  Makololo  chief, 
614,  623. 

Sechele,  driven  from  Kolo- 
beng  by  the  Boers,  596  ; 
visited  by  Moffat,  598  ; 
visited  by  Livingstone, 
610 ;  his  baptism,  611  ; 
starts  on  a  visit  to  Queen 
Victoria,  616, 

Sechwanalanguage,588,6oi. 

Seidenfaden,  John  (S.  Af- 
rica), 527  ;  opens  a  mission 
station  at  Khamiesljerg, 
530 ;  stationed  at  Caledon 
Institution,  537. 


Sekeletu,  Makololo  chief, 
617,  620,  621,  623. 

Sekhome,  599,  609,  634, 
635.  636,  6^1. 

Select  Committee  of  House 
of  Commons  on  question  of 
relation  of  the  Government 
to  natives  in  colonies,  551. 

Self-support  of  S.  African 
churches  and  institutions, 
question  of,  572-581.  {See 
also  'Institutions,'  mission- 
ary.) 

Selwyn,  Bishop,  on  non- 
interference between  the 
missions  of  different  so- 
cieties, 785,  789. 

Seventh  Day  Adventists,36o. 

Sewell,  J.  S.  (Society  of 
Friends; ,  750,  767,  776. 

Sharp,  Granville,  47b. 

SJiarpe,  Watson  (New 
Gumea),  466. 

Shaw,  George  Andrew 
(Madagascar,  &c.),  757;  at 
Tamatave,  763 ;  imprisoned 
by  French,  763,  764,  791. 

Shaw,  Thotnas  Francis 
(Cent.  Africa),  658,  663. 

Shelly^  William  (Tonga- 
tabu,  &c.),  127,  134,  173, 
176,  186,  189. 

Ships,  mission ;  see  the  Ha- 
vveis,  the  Endeavour,  the 
Messenger  of  Peace,  the 
Olive  Branch,  the  Cam- 
den, the  John  Williams, 
the  Good  News. 

Shirnding,  Baron  von,  76. 

Shoshong,  598,  607,  633; 
history  of  the  mission,  634- 
638  ;  Khame  becomes  cirief 
of  the  Bamangwato,  and 
professes  Christianity,  635 
{and  see  Khame). 

Shrubsole,  W^iUiam,  one  of 
the  first  secretaries  of  the 
Society,  43,  92,  99- 

ShulenDourg,  Mr.,  Lutheran 
missionary    at     Shoshong, 

634- 

Sibree,  Mr.  (of  Frome),  26. 

Sibree,  James  (Madagascar, 
&c.),  719,  720,  721,  737, 
767  ;  member  of  the  Mala- 
gasy Bible  Revision  Com- 
mittee, 776. 

Sibree,  Miss,  769. 

Sierra  Leone,  attempt  of 
Melville  Home  to  establish 
mission  at,  1 1,  22;  proposal 
of  the  Society  to  found  a 


INDEX 


827 


Sierra  Leone — 
mission  near,  39.    {See  also 
Foulahs,  the,  mission  to.) 

Sierra  Leone  Company,  478. 

Silent  Hope  Fountain,  5^7. 

Silver  Fountain,  mission  sta- 
tion at,  532. 

Simeona,  native  teacher  at 
Aneiteum,  406. 

Siraone,  native  teacher  of 
Mare,  and  a  New  Guinea 
pioneer,  432,  435. 

Simpson, Alexander  (Eimeo, 
&c.),  224,  282,  293;  takes 
charge  of  the  South  Sea 
Academy,  297  ;  attempts, 
with  Pritchard,  to  found  a 
mission  at  the  ^L^rquesas 
in  1829, 298, 299; suspends 
his  church  for  engaging  in 
native  dances,  314;  326. 

Simpson,  Robert,  of  Hoxton 
Academy,  14,  16. 

Slatterie,  Mr.,  33. 

Slavery  :  seizure  of  natives 
of  the  Ell  ice  Islands  by 
Peruvian  slavers,  427  {see 
also  tinder  Hottentots)  ; 
condition  of  Hottentot 
slaves,  511,  513,  542,  545, 
546,552;  'regulation'  of 
the  Directors  ol  the  L.  M.  S. 
on  the  subject,  541  ;  num- 
ber of  slaves  in  Cape 
Town  in  1820,  542  ;  Act 
for  the  abolition  of  slavery 
in  Cape  Colony,  554 ;  King 
Xhame's  anti-slavery  law, 
637  ;  in  Cent.  Africa,  656. 

Sleigh,  James   (Lifu),  414, 

4'5- 
Sloper,  Mr.  'of  Devizes\  32. 
Small,  Mr.  '^of  Axminster), 

Stnee,  Alfred  (Tahiti),  315, 

326. 
Smelle,  Mr.,  33. 
Sniit,  Erasmus  ^S.  Africa', 

509,  537. 

Smith,  Kcv.  —  (of  Cam- 
bridge), 14,  15. 

Smith,  Mrs.,  a  mission- 
worker  at  liethelsdorp,  507 
and  note  ;  account  ot  \'.nn- 
derkemp's  last  hours,  515. 

Smith,  Dr.  Andrew,  visits 
Kuruman,  590. 

Smith,  Colonel,  tried  for 
the  murder  of  Hintza,  560. 

Smith ,  James,  64. 

Smith,  James  ^Taliaa),  340. 

Smith,  William,  17,  24. 


Smith,    William    (Tahiti), 

127,  151. 
Society  ^or  Leeward)  Islands; 
see  Huahine,  Raiatea.  Bora- 
bora,  Tahan,  atid  Maupiti. 
Society  for  the  Propagation 
of  the  Gospel  in   Foreign 
Parts,    8,    740,    762,    763, 
7^9'    775»    780;    relations 
with  the  L.  M.S.  in  Mada- 
gascar, 786-790. 
I  Society  for  the  Propagation 
I    of  the  Gospel  among  the 

Jews,  9S. 
I  Soddy,  IVilliam,  64. 
Soldiers,  work  among,  505, 
'    5.^2,  535. 

Solomon,   Edward  (S.  Af- 
i    "ca),  577. 

j  Solomon,  Saul  (Cape   Par- 

I    liament),  577. 

Somerset  (S.   Africa',  mis- 

I    sion  at,  56S, 

Somerset,     Lord     Charles, 

Governor  of  Cape  Colony, 

539;  his  treaty  with  Gaika, 

556,557;  his  agreement  of 

1819   with    Kafir    chiefs, 

557- 

South  African  Missionary 
Society,  572. 

South  Sea  Academy,  224, 
274,  296,  297. 

South  Sea  Islands,  mission 
to:  first  contributions,  11, 
I  2  ;  decided  upon  by  the 
Society,  33,  38  ;  meagre 
results  of  the  testing  of 
early  missionaries,  64,  65  ; 
reinforcements  carried  by 
the  Royal  Admiral,  65  ; 
lack  of  immediate  success. 
9S ;  stations  occupied  in 
1820,  106;  summary  of  a 
century's  results,  470-474. 
[^See  also  under  the  names 
of  the  islands.) 

Southoji,  M.D.,  Ebenezer 
John  (Cent.  Africa\  654  ; 
notesfrom  journal,  655;  set- 
tles at  Urambo,656;  opens 
a  school,  657;  shot  by 
accident,  659  ;  death,  661. 

Sj^a  Fields  Chapel,  14; 
sermon  by  Dr.  Haweis  at, 
26-30  ;   118. 

Spear,  Mr.. co-operates  with 
Mr.  Haldaiie  in  providing 
funds  for  starting  a  mis- 
sionary seminary,  67,  72. 

Six-^nccr,  Mr.  ^^of  Wingficld), 
118. 


Spencer,  George  (Tahiti), 
3.^1,  332. 

Spicer,  .M.P.,  Albert  (Trea- 
surer of  the  L.  M.S.  , 
member  of  a  deputation  to 
Samoa,  397. 

Spinning  and  weaving  fac- 
tory in  South  Sea  Islands, 
attempt  to  establish,  219. 

.Stacey  Islands  (South  Cape) , 

453- 

Stagg,  Charles  Thomas  H. 
(Madagascar  ,  713,  714. 

Stair,  John  Bettcridge 
(L'polu;,  375,  380;  estab- 
lishes a  mission  press  at 
Falelalai,  384. 

Stallworthy,  George  (Mar- 
quesas and  Samoa),  takes 
charge  of  Malua  Institution 
(Samoa  ,  392:  death,  392. 

Stallybrass,  Edward  (^Si- 
beria), 105. 

Stations  occupied  by  mis- 
sionaries in  1820,  106- 
loS. 

Steinkopff  (Little  Namaqua- 
land),  mission  at,  582. 

Steinkopff,  Mr.,  100. 

Stellenbosch,  mission  station 

/^^f  537»  575- 

Stephens  IsLind,  442. 

Steven,  James,  of  the  Scotch 
Church.  Covent  Garden, 
meets  Dr.  Pogue  and  Mr. 
Hey  at  Jiiistol  to  consult 
on  the  question  of  arousing 
public  interest  in  missions, 
5;  12,13,  14,  15,17,24,25, 
30  ;  one  of  the  first  Direc- 
tors of  the  Society,  40,  44. 

Steven,  R.,  one  of  the  first 
Directors   of  the   Society, 

4O'  45.  49'^'oO',  '04- 
.Stevens,       Charles       Green 

1^  Tahiti  ,  31  2. 
Stewart,  Dr.  ^^of  Lovedale\ 

619. 
Street,    Mr.   (Friends'   Mis- 
sion, Madagascar),  757. 
Stribling,    I.  die  in    // ay  lock 

(^Madagascar  ,  737,  761. 
Stuart,  Captain,  said  to  have 

introduced  Clirislianily  to 

the  Lllice  islanders,  428. 
Suau    (New    Guinea  ,  4^3, 

466. 
Sugar    factories    at    Limeo 

and  Tahiti,  21S,  319. 
.Summary    of    a    centur)''s 

mission-work  in  Polynesia, 

47«>-474- 


828 


INDEX 


Sundelin,     Olavus     J.    (of 

Norrkoping),  77. 
Sunderland,  James    Povey 

i^Samoa),  409,  418. 
Supper,  John    Christopher 

(Java),  105. 
Surat,  102,  104. 
Surrey  Chapel,  33,  83,  240. 
S'd'cin,  Alfred  James  (Cent. 

Africa\    658,    663,    664, 

667,  669. 
Swedes,  at  Tahiti,  137,  138. 
Swedish  Society  {De  fide  et 

Christianismd),  11, 
Swellendam.  537,  575. 
Sykes,  William  (S.  Africa), 

602,    619;    his    work    in 

Matabeleland,    624,    625, 

626 ;  death,  627. 

Taevao,  native  teacher  at 
Erromanga,  410. 

Tahaa  :  idolatry  renounced 
by  many  of  the  people, 
212;  departure  of  Bourne, 
274,281  ;  arrival  of  James 
Smith  and  Charter,  340  ; 
spirit-distilling  by  chiefs, 
343 ;  the  Training  Institu- 
tion, 349. 

Tahiti :  mission  decided 
upon  by  the  Society,  38, 
^o^  ;  5^>  57;  eleven  mis- 
sionaries decide  to  remove 
in  the  Nautilus  to  Port  Jack- 
son, 63,  150,151;  laboursof 
Nott,  Jefferson,  and  others, 
64 ;  117  sqq. ;  arrival  of 
first  missionaries,  I34sqq. ; 
attempt  to  suppress  infan- 
ticide, 141,  142,  148,  149  ; 
tjross  vices  of  the  people, 
142, 1O3;  human  sacrifices, 
M3.  i59>  163,  164; 
approximate  population, 
143;  early  difficulties  of 
missionaries,  147-150; 
discussion  of  questions  of 
self-defence  and  marry- 
ing native  women,  149; 
arrival  of  the  Nautilus, 
149;  several  missionaries 
attacked  for  trying  to  pre- 
Ncnt  the  landing  of  arms 
and  powder,  150,  160; 
causes  of  defection  of 
missionaries,  151;  letter 
from  six  missionaries  to 
the  Directors,  152,  153; 
I'omare  punishes  the  as- 
sailants of  the  missionaries, 


Tahiti— 
155  ;  the  drinking  of  yavva, 
155,  156;  excommunica- 
tion of  Lewis  for  marrying 
a  heathen  woman,  156, 
157  ;  difficulties  of  the 
language,  157,  159,  162, 
168  ;  slow  progress  of  mis- 
sion-work, 158  sqq. ;  return 
of  William  Henry,  166  ; 
defection  of  Broomhall, 
167  ;  ravages  of  disease 
amongst  natives,  175, 
180,  182 ;  reinforcement 
brought  by  the  Royal 
Admiral,  176  ;  first  public 
address  to  natives,  177; 
first  evangelistic  tour, 
177 ;  civil  war,  178  ; 
preaching  throughout  the 
island,  179;  death  of  Po- 
mare  I,  181  ;  difficulty  of 
getting  children  to  attend 
school,  182  ;  formation  of 
a  Tahitian  vocabulary,  184, 
185  ;  Pomare  II  learns  to 
write,  185  ;  Pomare  writes 
to  the  Directors  of  the 
L.  M.S.,  188,  189;  death 
of  Jefferson,  189  ;  the  Per- 
severance    tragedy,     1 91, 

192  ;  outbreak  of  rebellion 
and  flight  of  missionaries 
toHuahine,  i92;temporary 
cessation  of  mission-work, 

193  ;  two  natives  begin  to 
hold  prayer- meetings,  201  ; 
beginning  of  Bible  transla- 
tion, 203,  204 ;  plan  of 
instruction  in  the  Scrip- 
tures, 203  ;  burning  of 
idols,  207  ;  overthrow  of 
idolatry  and  circumstances 
leading  to  it,  208-211  ; 
Nott  and  Hayward  preach 
to  large  congregations, 
212;  dimensions  of  the 
Royal  Mission  Chapel  and 
its  opening,  219-221  ; 
promulgation  of  the  laws 
in  the  great  chapel,  221, 
222;  baptism  of  Pomare 
II,  223  ;  building  of  a  new 
chapel,  225  ;  influences  re- 
tarding progress  from  1825 
to  1850,  291  ;  vicious 
conduct  of  the  queen 
(Pomare  Vahine  IV), 
29' >  ,299,  314;  deficien- 
cies in  native  teachers, 
292  ;  slight  heathen  re- 
action, 293 ;  the  evil  caused 


Tahiti — 
by  runaway  sailors  setting 
up  grog-shops,  293  ;  hin- 
drances to  progress  arising 
from  the  missionariesthem- 
selves,  294;  anxiety  from 
the  want  of  a  settled  in- 
come, 295  ;  missionaries' 
children  contaminated  by 
heathenism,  296;  theSouth 
Sea  Academy  at  Eimeo, 
296,  297  ;  outbreak  of  fana- 
ticism, 297,  298  ;  the  print- 
ing-press, 298 ;  formation  of 
temperance  societies,  299, 
300;  robberies,  300,  313; 
compulsory  attendance  at 
public  worship,  300 ;  the 
queen  signs  the  pledge,  300 ; 
conquest  by  France,  306 
sqq.,  325  {see  also  French, 
the,  in  Tahiti) ;  disap- 
pointment of  new  mission- 
aries, 313;  conflict  of  views 
between  senior  and  junior 
missionaries,  313,  315  ;  a 
gloomy  picture  of  the  state 
of  morals  and  religion, 
313,  314;  trouble  caused 
by  the  election  of  Pritchard 
to  the  pastorate  of  Papeete, 
315  ;  the  missionaries  de- 
cline to  recognize  formally 
the  French  Protectorate, 
318,  319;  retirement  of 
some  of  the  missionaries, 
319  ;  difficulties  under  the 
Protectorate,  327  sqq.  ; 
population  in  1848,  327; 
registration  of  chapels, 
schools,  &c.,  as  '  national 
property  for  the  use  of 
Protestants,'  327  ;  im- 
morality licensed  by  the 
new  laws,  328,  329;  pass- 
ing of  laws  (1851)  making 
missionaries'  houses  jDublic 
property,  and  restricting 
the  work  of  missionaries, 
.^30>  331  ;  prosecution  of 
Howe  for  seditious  lan- 
guage, 330 ;  unjust  charge 
of  sedition  against  Chis- 
holm,  331;  Government 
deprives  churches  of  power 
of  electing  their  pastors 
(1852),  331,  332;  Barff 
and  Chisholm  refuse  to 
acknowledge  the  sanction 
of  Government  for  their  ap- 
pointments and  resign,  332; 
work  of  Howe  in  publish- 


INDEX 


829 


Tahiti— 
ing  outlines  of  sermons, 
expositions,  the  Tatara 
raa,  &c.,  333,  334;  number 
of  church  members  in  Ta- 
hiti and  Eimeo  in  i860, 
335 ;  arrival  of  French 
Protestant  pastors,  335 ; 
work  of  J.  L.  Green,  336, 
337;  withdrawal  of  the 
L.  M.S.,  337,  338;  incor- 
rect ideas  in  England  as  to 
the  character  of  Tahitians 
and  French  rule,  343. 

Tahitian  Auxiliary  ^lission- 
ary  Society,  217,  218. 

Tahitoe,  King  of  Raiatea, 

349»  350- 
Tairapu  (Tahiti),  223. 
Tait,  Archbishop,  789. 
Tamana   (Gilbert  Islands), 

430- 

Tamatave,  mission-work  at, 
762-764. 

Tamatoa  I  (or  Tapa\ 
chief  of  Raiatea,  marriage 
of  his  second  daughter  to 
Pomare  II,  196;  197;  re- 
nounces idolatry,  211,  212: 
asks  for  a  missionary,  243  ; 
builds  a  chapel,  &c.,  246 ; 
adopts  a  code  of  laws, 
248  ;  lapses  for  a  time  into 
drinking  habits,  343  ;  sub- 
mits to  rebels  (1853),  344; 
death,  344,  474. 

Tamatoa  II,  of  Raiatea.  349. 

Tamatoa,  chief  of  Aitutaki, 

2.=;3. 
Tanganyika,  Lake,  649, 652, 

656,  658,  663. 
Tangena,    ordeal    of,    693, 

698,  708. 
Taniela,   native    teacher   at 

Mare,  410. 
Tanna      (New     Hebrides). 

376,    380,   391,  405:    first 

mission    in,    408  ;    arrival 

of    native    teachers,    409 ; 

mission     of    the    Presby- 
terian Church,  409. 
Tapaeru,  female  convert  of 

Rarotonga,  261,  369. 
Taria,  native  teacher  in  New 

Guinea,  461. 
Tartary,  39. 
Tataio,    native    teacher    at 

Marc,  410. 
7'alara  ma,  the,  written  by 

Howe  of  i'ahili,  333. 
Taua,     native     teacher     of 

Raiatea,  259. 


Taung,  commencement  of 
mission,  593;  606, 612,632, 
633,  634 ;  work  of  Matsani, 
native  teacher,  disruption 
in  the  church,  and  subse- 
quent reunion,  645-647. 

Taunga,  native  preacher  in 
S.  Seas  for  forty  years,  358. 

Tavita,  native  teacher  at 
Aneiteum,  406. 

Tax  levied  on  Hottentots, 

.S46. 

Taylor,/.  (S.  Africa),  241. 
Taylor,  \V.,  one  of  the  first 

Directors  of  the   Society, 

40. 
Teava,  Rarotongan  teacher 

settled  in  Samoa,  375. 
Temperance     societies     at 

Tahiti  and  Borabora,  299, 

300,  340. 
Tenae,     a     chief     of     the 

Marquesas,  141, 
Tepeso,   native    teacher   of 

Lifu,  stationed  at  Loyalty 

Islands  and  New  Guinea, 

432,  433,  434.  437- 

Tessier,  Samuel  (Tahiti \ 
176, 196;  returns  to  Eimeo, 
205,  213;  removes  to  Ta- 
hiti, 217,  224;  death,  225. 

Teste  Island,  453. 

Tetua  (orTatooa-noce),wife 
of  KingOtoo  (Tahiti),  1 38, 
139,  155,  186,  187. 

Theal,  Mr.  G.  M.,  inaccu- 
racy of  his  book  on  S. 
Africa  respecting  Vander- 
kcmp  and  Read,  512,  513; 
his  incorrect  statement  re- 
specting Dr.  Philip,  555. 

Theopolis,  mission  at,  537, 
538,  540;  rapid  progress 
of  the  institution  and  work, 

llioff!,  George  (S.  Africa^ 
attacks  John  Campbell 
and  others,  535,  536;  538. 

Thomas,  Mr..  Wesley.an 
missionary  at  Lefiiga,  286. 

Thomas,  John,  appointed 
with  Carey  to  mission- 
work  in  India,  5,  125. 

Thomas,  Thomas  Morgan 
(S.  Africa),  602,  619;  his 
work  among  the  Matabcle, 
624,  625,  6^6;   627. 

Thompson,  Dr.  Burns,  771. 

Thompson,     Ralph    Ward 
law  (Foreign  Secretary  of 
the  L.  M.S.),  visits  King 
Khame,  639  sqq. 


Thompson,  William  (S.  In- 
dia ,  becomes  pastor  of 
Union  Chapel,  Cape  Town, 
and  agent  of  the  L.  M.  .S  , 
569;  57f»574>577;  death, 
581  ;  his  long  services,  and 
successful  management  of 
the  Society's  affairs,  5S1. 

Thomson,  John  Boden  (S. 
and  Cent.  Africa),  627  ;  on 
the  hindrances  to  mission- 
work  in  Matabeleland, 
628  ;  member  of  first  ex- 
pedition to  Cent.  Africa, 
650,  651  ;  his  death,  652, 

Thomson,  Robert  (Tahiti\ 
312,  319,  320,  321,  326; 
his  contention  with  Howe 
as  to  control  of  church  at 
Papeete,  329,  330;  death, 

330;  339- 

Thomberg  (or  Grace  Hill), 
mission  at,  537,  538. 

Thorne, James  Cr^jx  (Mada- 
gascar;, 737,  768. 

Thorngren,  Sir.,  432  ;  mur- 
dered by  the  natives  of 
Yule  Island,  435,  442,  45 1 . 

Threlkeld,  Lancelot  AV/- 
warr/ (Raiatea),  214,  217, 
242;  arrives  at  Raiatea,  243; 
246  ;  leaves  Raiatea,  272. 

Thresher,  Mr.,  37. 

Tiberio,  native  teacher  of 
Raiatea,  settles  at  Raro- 
tonga, 262,  276. 

Tidman,  Dr.,  autocratic 
nile  of,  329;  784. 

Tiere,  native  teacher  of  Ta- 
haa, settled  atMangaia,2S2. 

Toka,  native  teacher  at  Er- 
romanga,  410. 

Tokelau  or  Union  Islands, 
391,  42C-422.  [See  also 
Atafu,  Fakaufo,  flWNuku- 
nono.) 

Tomory  ,'s\..v..,Q..y\.,  John  Kay 
Cent.  Africa),  6<)3. 

Tongarcva  (I'enrhyn  Is- 
lands), 370;  work  of  na- 
tive teachers  at,  372. 

Tongalabu,  47.  56,  65,  134; 
arrival  of  first  mission- 
aries, 1 40;  second  visit  of 
the  Duff  to,  144;  diffi- 
culties of  the  missionaries, 
169,  170;  defection  of 
Veeson,  169, 1 73  ;  Cooper's 
life  threatened,  170;  civil 
war,  171,  172;  massacre 
of  Powell,  Gaulton,  an<l 
Harper,  171,   172;  dcpar- 


830 


INDEX 


Tongatabn — 
ture  of  the  surviving  mis- 
sionaries. 173 ;  visit  of 
J.  Williams  and  C.  Barff, 
^84,285:  successful  labours 
of  a  native  teacher  of  the 
L.  M.  S.,  2S4  ;  conference 
between  Messrs.  Williams 
and  Barff  and  Messrs. 
Turner  andCross(\Vesieyan 
missionaries),  284,  285. 

Torres  Straits,  43  2 ,  447,  468. 

Tottenham  Court  Road 
Chajiel,  Dr.  Bogue's  mis- 
sion sermon  at,  34-37  ;  83. 

Towers,  John,  15. 

Townsend  George,  16,  33. 

'I'ownsend,  Jolm,  of  \itv- 
mondsey  Independent 

Church,  13,  14,  15. 

7<7j',  Robert  (Madagascar), 
713 ;  on  the  political 
aspects  of  the  ^lalagasy 
Church,  715,  716;  7r7; 
work  at  the  college,  765- 

^767;  775)  776- 

Tozer,  Mr.  (^of  Taunton),  25. 

'I'racy,  Samuel,  Home 
Secretary  of  the  Society, 
Q2  ;  agent  in  Paris,  95. 

Trading  of  missionaries, 
compulsory,  295,311,313. 

Training  institutions  and 
colleges :  Tahaa  (after- 
wards at  Raiatea\  349 ; 
Karotonga,  352,  353,441; 
Malua  (Samoa),  389-394  ; 
Lifu,4i4, 432, 440;  i'apuan 
(iulf  Native  College,  448, 
462 ;  Vatoraia  (New 
Guinea),  459,  462,  467; 
Moffat  Institution,  606, 
607,     648  ;      Madagascar, 

,749.  7''i,  765-767- 

'I  ranslation  ;  see  Bible. 

*  Tr.al '  plan  of  mission- 
work,  Livingstone's,  612- 
614. 

Tromp,  Bastian  (S.  Africa), 
493;  arrives  at  Bethels- 
dorp,  506;  522;  works  at 
Khamiesberg.  530. 

Tuaana,  native  teacher  in 
New  (iuinea,  462. 

Tuabine,  praying  native  of 
Tahiti,  201  ;  his  speech  at 
a  missionary  meeting,  247  ; 
takes  charge  of  the  mission 
at  kniatca  in  the  absence 
of  John  Williams,  275 ; 
death,  valuable  services 
and  charac'.er,  280,  281. 


Tubuai  (orTupuai),  one  of 
the  Austral  Islands,  133, 
250,  298  ;  visit  of  C.  Barff 
and  Chisholm.  347  ;  351. 

Tulbagh  (formerly  Rode- 
zand),  537,  568,  575. 

Tureture  (New  Guinea\  442 . 

Turner,  Mr.,  W^esleyan 
missionary,  284,  285. 

Turner^  LL.D.,  George 
(Samoa,  &c.),  380,  387, 
388 ;  appointed  with  C. 
Hardie  to  superintend  the 
Malua  Institution,  389  ;  on 
the  work  of  the  Malua 
Institution,  390,  391 ;  re- 
tires from  active  service, 
393  ;  visit  to  the  New 
Hebrides,  405  ;  description 
of  mission-work  on  Anei- 
teum,  407  ;  attempts,  with 
H .  Nisbet,  to  start  a  mission 
on  Tanna,  408 ;  visits  Niue 
with  H.  Nisbet,  418. 

Ttcrner,  M.D.,  George  Alex- 
ander (Samoa),  397. 

Turner,  M.D.,  Williavi 
Young  (New  Guinea),  452. 

Tute,  native  teacher  of  Ei- 
meo,  settled  in  the  Sand- 
wich Islands  for  thirty- 
three  years,  345,  346. 

Tutuila  (Samoa),  373 ;  ar- 
rival of  missionaries  ( 1 836), 
375  ;  formation  of  a  Chris- 
tian church,  376;  progress 
of  mission-work  to   1840, 

379- 

']'yerman,  D.,  one  of  a  depu- 
tation to  Tahiti,  &c.,  227, 
23i,233sqq.;27i,274;one 
of  a  deputation  to  Mada- 
gascar, 683  ;  death,  683. 

Tzatzoe,  Jan,  Kafir  assistant 
missionary,  537    567. 

Uaunaea,  native  teacher, 
settled  in  New  Guinea,  443. 

Uganda,  649,  650. 

Uitenhage,  547,  557;  mis- 
sion at,  568,  578. 

Ujiji,  649;  arrival  of  part 
of  the  first  missionary  ex- 
])edition,  652  ;  deaths  of 
Thomson  and  Dodgshun, 
652,  653;  erection  of  mis- 
sion premises,  652  ;  aban- 
doned as  a  station,  662. 

Ullbrichtjohn  Gottfried  {^. 
Africa),  arrives  at  Bethels- 
^orp,  506;  507,  510,  517, 
537,  563. 


Union  Chapel,  Cape  Town, 
its  opening,  and  appoint- 
ment of  Dr.  Philip  as  pastor, 
540  ;  pastorate  of  J.  C. 
Brown,  569;  W.Thompson 
becomes  pastor,  569  ;  581. 

Union  (orTokelau")  Islands, 
420-422.  {See also  KX.2iivi, 
Fakaofo,  Nukunono,  and 
Tokelau.) 

United  Presbyterian  Church 
of  Nova  Scotia,  sends  Mr. 
Geddie  to  South  Seas,  407. 

United  Presbyterian  Church 
of  Scotland,  assists  John 
Williams  to  open  up  New 
Caledonia,  407. 

Universities'  Mission,  619. 

Upolu  (Samoa),  288,  373; 
arrival      of      missionaries 

(1836),  375;  (1838),  375; 
formation  of  a  Christian 
church,  376  ;  progress  of 
mission-work  to  1840, 
379  ;  conferences  held  at 
Apia,  381  ;  Apia  becomes 
one  of  the  chief  trading 
stations  in  Polynesia,  381 ; 
the  seat  of  Government 
transferred  from  Malie  to 
Apia,  38 2  ;  war  between 
the  supporters  of  Laupepa 
and  of  Pe'a,  and  mediation 
of  missionaries,  382;  print- 
ing-press at  Falelatai,  384- 
387;  the  Malua  Institution, 
389-394  ;  Apia  Protestant 
School,  394 ;  Normal 
Trainingand  High  School, 
395  ;  Central  Girls'  School, 
Papauta,  395. 

Urambo,  652  ;  mission 
started  by  Southon,  656, 
657;  e'^'^. 

Uvea  (Loyalty  Islands), 
arrival  of  native  teachers 
and  missionaries,  hostility 
of  priests  and  of  the  French, 
416;  progress  of  mission- 
work,  416,  417;  J.  Had- 
field's  report,  416,  417. 


Vaa,  native  teacher  on  Erro- 

manga,  409. 
Vahapata,  native  teacher  of 

Raiatea ,  settled  at  Aitutaki, 

253?  256,  257. 
Vahineino,  native  teacher  of 

Raiatea,  261,  262,  264. 
Vaitupu     (Ellice    Islands), 

394,  426,  426. 


INDEX 


831 


Valedicton'  service, the  first, 
128,  129. 

Vnuderkcinp,  Johannes 
Theodosiiis  (^S.  Africa),  76, 
79,  lOD ;  accepted  as  a 
missionary  of  the  Society, 
103:  105;  circumstances 
which  drew  his  attention  to 
mission-work,  482  ;  inci- 
dents of  his  early  life, 
483  ;  communications  with 
Directors,  48.^,  484 ;  or- 
<lained  at  Crown  Court 
Church,  4S4  ;  sails  in  the 
convict         ship  Hills- 

borough, 484;  experience 
amongst  the  con victsduring 
ihe  voyage,  485,  486  ; 
arrival  at  Cape  Colony, 
4S7  ;  his  meeting  with 
Henry  Martyn,  487;  his 
reception  at  Cape  Town, 
488  ;  first  efforts  to  com- 
mence a  mission  to  the 
Kafirs,  4S9-493  ;  hostility 
of  the  Boers,  494,  ^95, 
497.  504.  553;  acquires 
land  for  a  settlement 
at  Graaff  Rcinet,  496 ; 
forms  a  settlement  at 
liotha's  P'arm,  497,  498  ; 
founds  Bethelsdorp,  502  ; 
wishes  to  commence  a  mis- 
sion in  Madagascar,  50;, 
5  10, 514, 515  ;  summoned  to 
Cape  Town,  and  detained 
there  by  the  governor,  506  ; 
resumes  work  at  Bethels- 
dorp,  507  ;  correspondence 
with  l^ircctors  on  an  ade- 
quate income  for  a  mission- 
ary, 50H :  upholds  the 
rights  of  Hottentots,  509  ; 
visits  Cape  Town  with 
Read  for  an  interview  with 
LordCaledon  on  the  claims 
of  the  Hottentots,  512  ; 
illness  and  death  at  Cape 
Town,  5 1 4.  515  ;  cliaracter, 
and  (jualilications  for 
mission-work,  516;  the 
benelTts  S.  Africa  owes 
to  him,  516;  appointed 
l)y  the  Directors  super- 
intendent of  S.  Afiican 
missions,  516  ;  535. 

/  'anderlingcn.  Aart  An- 
thony ',h.  Africa,  493; 
appointed  pastor  of  the 
I)utch  church  at  Graaff 
Kcinel,  494  ;    522. 

Vardy,  Joshua  Lambert,  64. 


Vate  (New  Hebrides),  391, 
410. 

Vatorata  Training  Institu- 
tion, 459,  462,  467. 

Vavau  Islands,  286. 

Veeson,George  ;Tongatabu), 
127,  134;  excommunicated, 
169,  173. 

\  ictoria.  Queen,  receives 
from  Henry  Nott  a  copy 
of  his  Tahitian  Bible,  303  ; 
presents  Radama  II  with 
a  Bible,  714. 

Victoria  Nyanza,  649. 

V'itua,  achief  of  Tahiti,  14^. 

Vivian,  James  Clarke 
(kaiatea),  344,  349. 

Vonizongo,  737. 

Vos,  Arie  (S.  Africa),  524, 

525.  537- 
V  reed  berg;    see  Africaner's 
kraal. 

Wagenmaker's  Valley,  493. 

Walker,  Dr.,  iiS. 

Walker,  Mr.,  128. 

Walker^  Frederick  William 
(New  Guinea),  466,  467. 

\\  allis,  Mr.  (\NesIeyan 
missionary,  Samoa),  382. 

\\'ankeets,  the,  586. 

IVarncr,  Gregory  (Tahiti), 
191,  196. 

Warm  Bath,  Great  Nama- 
qualand,  527-531  ;  destruc- 
tion of  the  station,  531. 

Warrior  Island,  438,  439. 

Warwickshire,  movement  in 
favourofmissions  in,  i  2, 13, 

Waterboer,  Andries,  chief 
of  Griqua  Town,  jealous 
of  the  success  of  Kuruman, 
590 ;  death,  597  ;  his 
integrity,  and  fidelity  to  the 
Christian  faith,  597,  59S. 

Waters,  William  (Tahiti), 
64,  176,  180. 

Watts,  Mr.,  agent  of  the 
Sierra  LeoneCompany,478. 

Waugh,  Dr.  Alexander,  12, 


M, 


24.    .^o.    32; 


one  of  the  first  Directors 
of  the  .Society,  40  ;  44,  49, 
50,67.74.  100,  12S,  24 1, 

Waunaea,  native  teacher  of 
Marc,  one  of  the  New 
Guinea  jiionecrs,  432,  435. 

*  Welsh  Indians,'  myth  of, 
102. 

Weslcyan  Missionary  So- 
ciety, 8,  II,  75.  103.  173  ; 
arrangement    to  leave   the 


Wesleyan  Miss.  Society — 
Friendly  and    Fiji  Islands 
to  be  worked  by,  284,  285  ; 
in  Kaffraria,  567. 

West,  Aaron,  57, 

West,  D.,  one  of  the  first 
Directors  of  the  Society,40. 

West  India  Islands,  102, 
104,  105. 

Weston.  James,  15. 

Whitefield's  Tabernacle, 
Moorhelds,  12  ;  sermon  by 
J.  Hey  at,  33,  83. 

Whitmee,  Samuel  James 
(Samoa),  382,  388  ;  his 
tribute  to  G.Pratt'sservices 
in  preparing  the  Samoan 
Bible,  388,  397  ;  his  report 
of  a  visit  to  the  Tokelau 
Islands.  42 1 ;  his  visit  to  the 
Ciilbert  Islands,  429,  430. 

Whitridge,  Mr.,  33. 

Wilberforce,  William,   108, 
478. 

Wilkinson,  James  (Tonga- 
tabu),  127,  134,  173. 

Wilks,  Matthew,  co-oper- 
ates in  tlie  establishment 
of  the  Evangelical  Maga- 
zine, II  ;  joins  John  Kyre 
in  starting  fortnightly 
meetings  fur  the  discus- 
sion of  missionary  topics, 
12;  13,14,  15,  17.  J'S  24, 
.30>  33  ;  ajipointcd  one  of 
the  fir^t  Dirtctors  of  the 
Society,  40;  45,  49,  67 ; 
member  of  a  deputation  to 
France,  94 ;  100,104,128, 
I  29,  130,  239. 

Williams,  David  (Cent 
Africa  ,  656.  657,  658. 

Williams,  Dr.  K  ,(lr.Twsupa 
circular  letter  urging  mis- 
sion enterprise,  12,  13  ;  ap- 
pointed one  of  the  first 
I)irectors  of  the  Society, 
40:   12S. 

Williams,  Edward  (S.  Af- 
rica), 564. 

Williams,  J.  C.  ''son  of  John 
W  illiams  and  liritish  con- 
sul at  Samoa  ,  heljis  to 
mediate  between  hostile 
parties  in  .Samoa,  382. 

Williams,  John  ^^Raiatca, 
&c.) ,  arrives  at  Eimeo.  2  1 4, 
243;  217  ;  removes  to  Hua- 
hine,  218,  243;  early  life 
and  conversion,  23>',  239; 
olTtTN  his  services  to  the 
L.  M.  S.,    240;     raaniagc, 


832 

IV il Hams,  John — 
240  ;    his  ordination,  241  ; 
arrives    at    Raiatea,    243 ; 
246,  247  ;  anxiety  to  work 
in  a  larger  sphere,  248, 249, 
2f6;  his  interest  in  the  con- 
verts of  Rurutu,  250  sqq.  ; 
visits     Aitutaki     (Hervey 
Islands),   253,   254;  visits 
Sydney  and  purchases  the 
Endeavour,  254;    extracts 
from   letters  to  Directors, 
254;    calls  at   Rurutu  on 
returning  to  Raiatea,  255  ; 
voyage  in  the   Endeavour 
to  the  Hervey  Islands,  &c., 
257-265  {and  see  Aitutaki, 
Atiu,  Mangaia,  &c.)  ;  dis- 
covers    Rarotonga,    261  ; 
extracts  from  his  letters  on 
mission-work   in    Raiatea, 
272-274;  adapts  the  Tahiti 
Bible  for  the  Society  and 
Hervey  Islands,    274;  re- 
visits Rarotonga,  275  sqq. ; 
settles    difficulties    arising 
from  the  abandonment  of 
polygamy,  277;  his  opinion 
on  missionaries  taking  part 
in  political  matters,  278  ; 
builds   the    Messenger    of 
Peace  and  sails  in  her  to 
Aitutaki  and  back, 279, 280; 
goes  to  Tahiti  and  then  to 
Raiatea,    281  ;  revisits  the 
Hervey  Islands,  282  ;  visits 
Nine,  the  Friendly  Islands, 
Lefuga,  and  Samoa,   283- 
289,373:  312,  331  ;  advo- 
cacy in  England  of  Polyne- 
sian missions,  340  ;  raises 
subscriptions  for  the  pur- 
chase of  the  Camden,  340  ; 
bitterness  felt  towards  him 
owing  to  his  exaggerated 
pictures  of  the  Polynesian 
mission-field,     313,     341  ; 


INDEX 

Williams,  John — 
publication  of  his  book 
A  Narrative  of  Missionary 
Enterprises, Sec,  340;  351 ; 
delivers  a  valedictory  ad- 
dress at  Blomfield  Street 
(i835)>  375;  evangelistic 
work  at  wSamoa,  376  ;  fare- 
well address  before  sailing 
in  the  Camden  for  the 
New  Hebrides,  376  ;  lands 
native  teachers  at  Rotuma 
and  Tanna,  376,  377,  408  ; 
killed,  with  Mr.  Harris,  at 
Erromanga,  377,  405,  409; 
leading  characteristics,  3  7  7 , 

378,471-  ,       , 

Williams,  Joseph  (S.  Africa), 

537.  538,  565,  585- 
Williams,  T.,  of  Rose  Lane, 

14,  15- 

Wi  II 0  ngh  by,  Willi  a  m 
Charles  (Cent.  &  S.  Africa), 
641,  658,  662, 

Wills,  James  (Madagascar), 

737,  7^8- 
Wills,  W.  H.,  letter  on  the 

origination  of  the  L.  M.  S., 
Appendix  II. 

Wilson,  B.A.,  Alfred  Wil- 
liam (Madagascar),  767. 

Wilson,  Charles  (Tahiti, 
&c.), 64,176,192, 193,194, 
196,  213;  removes  from 
Eimeo  to  Tahiti,  217;  222, 
223,  224;  his  visit  to 
Raiatea,  245;  313;  retires 
to  Samoa,  320. 

Wilson,  Captain  James, 
offers  to  serve  the  new 
society,  34,  122,  125  ;  his 
services  accepted,  43  ;  49, 
59,66,  104;  incidents  in  his 
early  career  and  his  conver- 
sion, 122-126  ;  his  first  voy- 
age in  the  Duff,  129  sqq.; 
176. 


Wilson,  John,  one  of  the 
first  Directors  of  the  So- 
ciety, 40,  45. 

Wilson,  Joseph,  one  of  the 
first  Directors  of  the  So- 
ciety, 40,  44,  49. 

Wilson,  Samuel,  son  of 
Charles  Wilson,  375,  384. 

Wilson,  Thomas,  one  of 
the  first  Directors  of  the 
Society,  40,  49. 

Wilson,  W.  (Friends'  Mis- 
sion, Madagascar),  772. 

Wimmer,  Michael  (S. 
Africa),  arrives  at  Bethels- 
dorp,  509;  517. 

Windward  (or  Georgian) 
Islands ;  see  Tahiti  and 
Eimeo. 

Winter,  Dr.,  242. 

Winterbotham,  Mr.,  agent 
of  the  Sierra  Leone  Com- 
pany, 478. 

Wood,  Mr.  (of  Rowell),  33. 

Wookey,    Alfred  John    (S. 

and    Cent.    Africa),    608, 

638,  656,  657. 

Wray,  John   (W.   Indies), 

74,  105. 

Wright,  Peter  (S.  Africa), 

.^^91.  593,  613. 
Wright,     Robert     Stewart 
(Cent.  Africa),  663,  664. 

Yockney,  Mr.,  104. 
Youl,Jo]in  (Tahiti),  64, 176, 

191. 
Yule  Island,  435,  439,  452, 

464. 

Zak     River     Mission ;     see 

Bushmen. 
Zambesi,  the,  Livingstone's 

discovery  of,  615. 
Zuurbraak,   537,  546,  577, 

578- 
Zuurfeld,  533. 


END   OF   VOL.   L 


^d 


PLEASE  DO  NOT  REMOVE 
CARDS  OR  SLIPS  FROM  THIS  POCKET 

UNIVERSITY  OF  TORONTO  LIBRARY 


H&SS 

A 

4-696 

v.l 


""    ■  >  V  \-'    '     ■■  '    ^     ■    ■■■(■■'   '  ?v.>'V' 


^^ 


=^ 


