THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  185 


The  First  Head,  of  Doctrine.i 
Seeing  that  Christ  Jesus  is  he  quhoni  God  the  Father  hes 
commandit  onlie  to  he  herd,  and  followed  of  his  scheip,  we 
urge  it  necessarie,  that  his  Evangell^  be  trewlie  and  openlie 
preached  in  everie  Kirk  and  Assemblie  of  this  Realme ;  and 
that  all  doctrine  repugnyng^  to  the  same  he  utterlie  suppres- 
sed^ as  damnahill  to  mannis  salvatioun. 

The  Explicatiowi  of  the  First  Head. 

Least  ujjone  this  our^  generalitie  ungodlie  men  tak  occa- 
sioun  to  cavill,  this  we  adde  for  explicatioun.  By  preching 
of  the  Evangell,  we  understand  nott  onlie  the  Scripturis  of 
the  New  Testament,  hot  also  of  the  Auld ;  to  wit,  the  Law, 
Propheittis,  and  Histories,  in  quliilk  Christ  Jesus  is  no  les 
conteaned  in  figure,  then  we  have  him  now  expressed  in  veri- 
tie :  And,  thairfoir,  with  the  Appostill  we  affirme,  that  "  All 
Scripture  inspired  of  God  is  profitable  to  instruct,  to  reprove, 
and  to  exhorte."  In  quhilk  buykis  of  Auld  and  New  Testa- 
mentis  we  affirme,  that  all  thingis  necessarie  for  the  instruc- 
tioun  of  the  Kirk,  and  to  mak  the  man  of  God  perfite,  is  con- 
teaned and  sufficientlie  expressed. 

By  the  contrarie  Doctrine,  we  understand  quhatsoever  men, 
by  Lawis,  Counsallis,  or  Constitutionis  have  imposed  upone  the 
consciences  of  men,  without  the  ex^^ressed  commandiment  of 
Goddis  word  ;  suclie  as  be  [the]  vowis  of  chastitie,  foirswering 
of  marriage,  bindyng  of  men  and  women  to  severall  and 
disagysed  apparrellis,  to  the  superstitious  observ^atioun  of  fast- 
ing dayis,  difference  of  meit  for  conscience  saik,  prayer  for  the 
deid  ;  and  hoping  of  holy  dayis  of  certane  Sanctis  commandit 

'  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  I.  *  In  Vautr.  edit.,  and  edit.  1621,  "  re- 

*  In  Vautr. edit.,  audedit.1621,  "Evan-  pressed." 

gcll"  is  always  rendered  "  Gospell."  =  In  edit.  1621,  "  Lest  that  upon," 

'  In  edit.  1G21,  "  repugnant."  and  omits  "our." 


186  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

by  man,  suche  as  be  all  those  that  the  Papistis  have  invented, 
as  the  Feistis  (as  thai  terme  thame)  of  Appostillis,  Martyres, 
Virgenis,  of  Christmess,  Circumcisioun,  Epiphany,  Purification, 
and  uther  found  ^  feistis  of  our  Lady  :  Quhilk  thingis,  becaus 
in  Goddis  Scripturis  thai  nather  have  commandiment  nor  as- 
surance, we  juge  thame  utterlie  to  be  abolischet  from  this 
Realme ;  affirmyng  farther,  that  the  obstinat  mayntenaris 
and  teachearis  of  suche  abhominationis  audit  not  to  eschaip 
the  punyschement  of  the  Civile  Magistrat. 


The  Secound  Head,  of  Sacramentis.2 
To    Christ  Jesus   his   liolie   Evangell  trewlie   preached,  of 
necessitie  it  is,  that  his   holie  Sacramentis  be  annexit,  and 
trewlie  ministred,  as  seallis  and  visible  confirmationis  of  the 
THE  spirituall  premisses  contened  in  the  wourd  :     And  thai  be  two, 

OFSACEA-  to  wit,  Baptisme,  and  the  Holie  Supper  of  the  Lord  Jesus: 
quhilk  ar  then  rychtlie  ministred,  quhen  by  a  lauchfull  Mi- 
nister the  pepill,  befoir  the  administratioun  of  the  same,  ar 
planelie  instructed,  and  put  in  mynd  of  Goddis  free  grace  and 
mercy,  offered  unto  the  penitent  in  Christ  Jesus  ;  quhen 
Goddis  premisses  ar  rehersit,  the  end  and  use  of  the  Sacra- 
mentis declared,^  and  that  in  suche  a  toung  as  the  pepill  dois 
understand  ;  quhen  farther  to  thame  is  nothing  added,  from 
thame  no  thing  diminissit,  and  in  thair  practise  nathing  chan- 
git  besydis  the  institutioun  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  practise  of 
his  holie  Apostles. 

And  albeit  the  Ordour  of  Geneva,^  quhilk  now  is  used 
in  some  of  oure  kirks,  is  sufficient  to  instnict  the  diligent 
reader,  how  that  boyth  these  Sacramentis  may  be  rychtlie 
ministred  ;  yit  for  ane  unifomiitie  to  be  keipit,  we  have  thocht 
gude  to  adde  this  as  superaboundand. 

'  In   Vautr.   edit.,    and   edit.   1621,  ^  In   Vautr.   edit.,    and  edit.   1621, 

"  other  fonde"  and  "  fond  feastes."  "  preached  and  declared." 

"  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  II.  *  See  note  infra,  page  210. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  187 

In  Baptisme,  we  acknawlege  nothing  to  be  used  except  the 
element  of  wattir  onlie,  (that  the  wourd  and  declaratioun  of 
the  premisses  aucht  to  preccid  we  haif  said  befoir.)  Quhair- 
foir,  quhosoevir  presumeth  in  baptisme  to  use  oyle,  salt,  wax, 
spattilljl  conjuratioun,  or  croceing,  accuseth  the  perfyte  insti- 
tutioun  of  Christ  Jesus  of  imperfectioun  ;  for  it  wes  void  of  all 
suche  inventionis  devysed  by  men :  And  suclie  as  wald  pre- 
sume to  alter  Christis  perfite  ordinance  yow  aucht  seveirlie  to 
punische. 

The  Tabill  of  the  Lord  is  then  most  rychtlie  ministred, 
quhen  it  approacheth  most  ney  to  Christis  awin  actioun  :  But 
plane  it  is,  that  at  that  Supper,  Christ  Jesus  sat  with  his 
discipillis,  and  thairfoir  do  we  juge,  that  sitting  at  a  table  is 
most  convenient  to  that  holie  actioun :  that  breid  and  wyne 
aucht  to  be  thair ;  that  thankis  aucht  to  be  gevin ;  distribu- 
tioun  of  the  same  maid ;  and  commandiment  gevin  that  the 
breid  suld  be  tack  in  and  eittin ;  and  that  all  suld  likewise 
drink  of  the  cowp  of  wyne,  w  itli  declaratioun  quhat  boyth  the 
one  and  the  other  is,  we  suppoise  no  godlie  man  will  doubt. 
For  as  tuiching  the  dampnabill  erroure  of  the  Papistis,  quho 
can  2  defraude  the  commoun  pepill  of  the  one  parte  of  that 
holie  Sacrament,  to  wit,  of  the  coupe  of  the  Lordis  blude,  we 
suppois  thair  errour  to  be  so  manifest,  that  it  needeth  no  confu- 
tatioun  ;  nather  yit  intend  we  to  confute  any  thing  in  this 
oure  simple  confessioun ;  but  to  offer  publict  disputatioun  to 
all  that  list  oppung  any  thing  affirmed  by  us. 

That  the  Minister  break  the  breid,  and  distribute  the  same 
to  those  that  be  nyxt  unto  him,  commanding  the  rest,  every 
one  with  reverence  and  sobrietie,  to  breake  with  other,  we 
think  it  nyest  to  Christis  actioun,  and  to  the  perfite  practise 
[of  the  Apostles,]  as  we  reid  it  in  Sanct  Paull.  During  the 
quhilk  actioun,  we  think  it  necessarie,  that  some  comfortable 

1   In  Vautr.    edit.,   and   edit.    1621,  « j^   Vautr.   edit,,    and    edit.   1621, 

"  spittle."  "  who  dare." 


188  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

places  of  [the]  Scripturis  be  red,  quliilk  may  bring  in  mynd 
the  deitli  of  Christ  Jesus,  and  the  benefite  of  the  same  ;  for 
seing  that  in  that  actioun  we  aucht  chieflie  to  remember  the 
Lordis  deith,  we  juge  the  Scripturis  macking  mentioun  of  the 
same  most  apt  to  stear  up  our  dull  myndis  then,  and  at  all 
tymes.  Lett  the  discretioun  of  the  ministeris  appoint  the 
places  to  be  red  as  thai  think  gude.  Quhat  tymes  we  think 
most  convenient  for  the  administratioun  of  the  one  and  of 
the  other  of  these  Sacramentis,  salbe  declared  in  the  Policie 
of  the  Kirk. 


The  Thrid  Head,  tuiching  the  Abolissing 
OF  Idolatrie.i 

As  we  require  Christ  Jesus  to  be  trewlie  preached,  and  his 
holie  Sacramentis  to  be  rychtlie  ministerit ;  so  can  we  not  cease 
to  requyre  Idolatrie,  with  all  monumentis  and  places  of  the 
same,  as  Abbayis,  monkeries,^  freireis,  nunreis,  chapellis,  cliant- 
reis,  cathedrall  kirkis,  channounreis,  colledges,  uthers  then 
presentlie  are  T)aroche  Kirkis  or  Sculis,  to  be  utterlie  sup- 
pressed in  all  boundis  and  places  of  this  Realme  (except  onlie 
the  Palacies,  mansionis,  and  dwelling  places  adjacent  thairto, 
with  orchartis  and  yardis  of  the  samyn)  :  As  also  that  Idolatrie 
may  be  removed  from  the  presence  of  all  personis  of  quhat 
estait  or  conditioun  that  ever  thai  be,  within  this  Realme. 

For  latt  your  Honouris  be  assuredlie  persuaded,  that  quhair 
Idolatrie  is  mayntened  or  permitted  quhair  it  may  be  sup- 
pressed, that  thair  sail  Goddis  wraith  reigne,  not  onlie  ui)one 
the  blind  and  obstinat  idolater,  but  also  upone  the  negligent 
sufferaris  [of  the  same  ;]  especiallie  gif  Grod  have  armed  thair 
handis  with  power  to  suppress  suche  abhominatioun. 

By  Idolatrie  we  understand,  the  Messe,  Invocatioun  of 
Sanctis,  Adoratioun  of  Ymagis,  and  the  keping  and  retenying 

1  In  edit.  1722,  Chai>.  III.  ^  In  MS.  1566,  "  nionkis,  freiris." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  189 

of  the  same :    and  finallie  all  honoring  of  God,  not  conteaned 
in  his  holie  Word. 


The  Foukt  Head,  concernynq  Ministeris  and  thair 
Lauchfull  Electioun.1 

In  a  Kirk  reformed  or  tending  to  reformatioun,  none  aucht 
[to]  presume  eatlier  to  preaclie,  eatlier  yit  to  minister  the 
Sacramentis,  till  that  ordourlie  thai  be  callit  to  the  same, 
Ordinarie  vocatioun  consisteth  in  Electioun,  Examinatioun,  and 
Admissioun.  And  becaus  that  Electioun  of  Ministeris  in  this 
cursed  Papistrie  hes  altogither  bene  abused,  we  think  expe- 
dient to  intreat  it  moir  largelie. 

It  apperteneth  to  the  Pepill,  and  to  everie  severall  Congre- 
gatioun,  to  Elect  thair  Minister :  And  in  caise  that  thai  be 
fundin  negligent  thairin  the  space  of  fourty  dayis,  the  best  re- 
formed kirk,  to  wit,  the  churche  of  the  Superintendent  with 
his  Counsall,  may  present  unto  thame  a  man  quhom  thai 
juge  apt  to  feade  the  flock  of  Christ  Jesus,  who  must  be 
examinated  alsweill  in  lyifi*  and  maneris,  as  in  doctiyne  and 
knawlege. 

And  that  this  may  be  done  with  moir  exact  diligence, 
the  personis  that  ar  to  be  examinated  must  be  commanded 
to  compeir2  befoir  men  of  soundest  jugement,  remanying 
in  some  principall  towne  nyxt  adjacent  unto  thame  ;  as  thai 
that  be  in  Fyffe,  Anguss,  Mernyss,  or  Straytherne,  to  present 
thame  selfis  in  Sanctandrois  ;  those  that  be  in  Lowthiane, 
Merse,  or  Teviotdaill,  to  Edinburgh ;  and  likewise  those  that 
be  in  other  countreis  mon  resorte  to  the  best  reformed  citeis 
or  townis,  that  is,  to  the  citie^  of  the  Superintendent ;  quhair 
first  in  the  scoillis,  or  failling  thairof  in  open  assemblie,  and 
befoir  the  congregatioun,  thai  most  geve  declaratioun  of  thair 

1  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  IV.  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  best  reformed 

'  InVautr.  ed.,anded.  1G21,  "appeire."      citie  and  toune,  that  is,  to  the  towne." 


190  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

giftis,  utterance,  and  knawlege,  by  interpreting  some  place  of 
Scripture  to  be  appointed  be  tlie  ministerie.  Quliilk  being- 
ended,  the  persone  that  is  presented,  or  that  offered  him  self 
to  the  administratioun  of  tlie  kirk,  must  be  examined  bj  the 
ministeris  and  elderis  of  the  kirk,  and  that  opinlie  and  be- 
foir  all  that  list  to  hear,  in  all  the  cheif  pointes  that  now 
lie  in  contraversie  betwix  us  and  the  Papistis,  Anabaptistis, 
Arrians,  or  other  suche  ennemies  to  the  Christiane  religioun. 
In  quhilk  gif  he  be  found  sound,  abill  to  persuade  by  hail- 
some  doctryne,  and  to  convince  the  gaynsayaris,  then  must 
he  be  directed  to  the  Kirk  and  Congregatioun  quhair  he  suld 
serve,  that  thair,  in  oppin  audience  of  his  flock,  in  diverse 
publict  sermonis,  he  may  gif  confession  of  his  faith  in  the 
articles  of  Justificatioun,  of  the  office  of  Christ  Jesus,  of  the 
nomber,  effect,  and  use  of  the  Sacraments ;  and,  finallie,  of 
the  hoill  religioun,  quhilk  heirtofoir  hath  bene  corrupted  by 
the  Papistis. 

Gif  his  doctrine  be  found  holesome,  and  able  to  instmct  the 
simple,  and  if  the  Kirk  justlye  can  reprehend  nothing  in  his 
lyiff,  doctryne,  nor  utterance,  then  we  juge  the  Kirk,  quhilk 
befoir  wes  destitute,  unreasonabill  if  thai  refuse  him  quhom 
the  Kirk  did  offer  ;  and  that  thai  suld  be  compelled,  by  the  cen- 
sure of  the  Counsall  and  Kirk,  to  receive  the  persone  appoynted 
and  approvin  by  the  jugement  of  the  godlie  and  lerned  ;  unless 
that  the  same  Kirk  have  presented  a  man  better  or  alsweill 
qualifeid  to  the  examinatioun,  befoir  that  this  foirsaid  tryell 
wes  takin  of  the  persone  presented  by  the  counsall  of  the  lioile 
Kirk.  As,  for  example,  the  Counsall  of  the  Kirk  presentis  to 
any  kirk  a  man  to  be  thair  minister,  not  knawing  that  thai 
ar  utherwayis  provided  :  in  the  meyntyme,  the  Kirk  is  provided 
of  ane  uther,  sufficient  in  thair  jugement  for  that  charge, 
quhom  thai  present  to  the  lerned  Ministeris  and  next  reformed 
Kirk  to  be  examinated.  In  this  case  the  presentatioun  of 
the  Pepill,  to  quhom  he  suld  be  appointed  pastour,  must  be 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  191 

preferred  to  the  presentatioun  of  tlie  Counsall  or  greater  Kirk  ; 
unless  the  persone  presented  by  the  inferioiir  Kirk  be  juged 
unabill  for  the  regiment  by  the  lerncd.  For  altogithcr  this  is 
to  be  avoided,  that  any  man  be  violentlie  intrused^  or  thrust 
in  upoun  any  Congregatioun.  But  this  libertie  with  all  cair 
must  be  reserved  till  everie  severall  Kirk,  to  have  thair  votis 
and  suffragis  in  electioun  of  thair  Ministeris.  But  violent  in- 
trusioun  we  call  nott,  quhen  the  Counsall  of  the  Kirk,  in 
the  feare  of  God,  and  for  the  salvatioun  of  the  pepill,  ofFereth 
unto  thame  a  sufficient  man  to  instruct  thame  ;  quhom  thai 
sail  not  be  forced  to  admitt  befoir  just  examinatioun,  as  befoir 
is  said. 

II.    QUHAT  MAY  UNABLE  ONY  PERSOUN,  THAT  HE  MAY  NOTT 
BE  ADMITTED  TO  THE  MiNISTERIE  OF  THE  KiRK. 

It  is  to  be  observed  that  na  persone,  noted  with  publict  in- 
fomye,  or  being  unabill  to  edifie  the  Kirk  by  hailsome  doctrine, 
or  being  knawin  of  corinipt  jugement,  be  eather  promoted  to 
the  regiment  of  the  Kirk,  or  yit  receaved^  in  Ecclesiasticall 
administratioun. 

Explicationn. 
By  publict  Infamye  we  understand,  nott  the  commoun 
synnes  and  offences  quhilk  any  lies  committit  in  tyme  of 
blindnes,  by  fragilite  ;  (gif  of  the  same,  by  a  better  and  more 
sober  conversatioun,  he  hath  declared  him  self  vcriclie  jjeni- 
tent ;)  but  suche  capitall  crymes  as  the  civile  swerd  audit  and 
may  punishe  with  deith  by  the  wourd  of  God.  For  besydis 
that  the  Apostill  requyreth  the  lyif  of  Ministeris  to  be  so  irre- 
prehensible,  that  thai  have  a  gude  testimonye  from  those  that 
be  without ;  we  juge  it  a  thing  unseimlie  and  dangerouse,  that 
he  sail  have  publict  authoritie,  to  preiche  to  utheris  the  lyiff 

1    111   Vautr.   edit.,   and  edit.    1621,  ^  j^  Vautr.  edit.,  and  edit.  1621,  "  or 

"  intruded."  yet  retained." 


192  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

everlasting,  from  qiihom  the  civile  Magistrat  may  tak  the  lyiff 
temporall  for  a  cryme  publictlie  committed :  And  gif  ony 
object,  That  the  Prince  hes  pardoned  his  offence,  and  that  he 
hes  publictlie  repented,  and  so  is  not  onlie  his  lyiff-^  in  assur- 
ance, but  also  that  he  maybe  receaved  to  the  Ministerie  of  the 
Kirk;  we  answer,  That  repentance  dois  nott  tak  away  the 
temporall  punishment  of  the  law,  neither  doth  the  pardon  of 
the  Prince  remove  his  infamye  befoir  man. 

That  the  lyiff  and  conversatioun  of  the  persone  presented,  or 
to  be  elected,  may  be  the  more  cleirlie  knawin,  publict  Edictis 
must  be 2  directed  to  all  partis  of  this  Realme,  or  at  the  leist 
to  those  partis  quhair  the  persone  hath  bene  most  conversant : 
as  quhair  he  wes  nurischit  in  letteris,  or  quhair  he  contineuit 
from  the  yeiris  of  infancie  and  childhood  war  passed.  Strait 
commandiment  wald  be  gevin,  that  if  any  capital  ciymes  wer 
committit  by  him,  that  thai  suld  be  notified ;  as,  gif  he  hath 
committit  wilfull  murther,  adulterie,  a  commoun  fomicatour, 
gif  he  war 3  a  theiff,  a  druncard,  a  feychtar,  brawlar,  or  con- 
tentious persone.  These  Edictis  audit  to  be  notified  in  the 
cheiff  cities,  with  the  lyik  charge  and  commandiment,  with 
declaratioun  that  suche  as  concealled  his  synnes  knawin,  did 
deceave  and  betray  (so  far  as  in  them  lay)  the  Kirk,  quhilk 
is  the  spous  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  did  communicate  with  the 
synnes  of  that  wicked  man. 

III.  Admissioun  [of  Ministers.] 
The  admissioun  of  Ministeris  to  thair  offices,  must  consist  in 
consent  of  the  pepill  and  Kirk  quhairto  thai  salbe  appointed, 
and  in  approbation  of  the  learned  Ministeris    appointed   for 
thair  examinatioun. 

We  juge  it  expedient,  that  the  admissioun  of  Ministeris  be 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  and  so  not  only  his  '  In  edit.  1621,  the  words  transposed, 

life  is."  "  if  he  were   a  common  fornicator." 

» In  edit.  1621,  "  should  be."  Vautr.  edit,  corresponds  with  the  text. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  193 

in  opin  audience  ;  that  some  especiall  Minister  mak  a  sermon 
tuicliing  the  deutie  and  office  of  Ministeris,  tuiching  thair 
maneris,  conversatioun,  and  lyif ;  as  also  tuiching  the  obedience 
quhilk  the  Kirk  aw  ^  to  thair  Ministeris.  Commandiraent  suld 
be  gevin  alsweill  to  the  Minister  as  unto  tlie  peple,  boyth  being 
present,  to  witt,  that  he  with  all  cairfull  diligence  attend 
upone  the  flock  of  Christ  Jesus,  over  the  quhilk  he  is  appointed 
preacher: 2  that  he  [will]  walk  in  the  presence  of  God  so 
sjnceirlie,  that  the  graces  of  the  Holie  Spreit  maj  be  multi- 
plyed  into  him ;  and  in  the  presence  of  men  so  sobirlie  and  up- 
rjchtlie,  that  his  lyiff  may  confirm e,  in  the  eyis  of  men,  that 
quhilk  by  toung  and  wourd  he  persuaded  unto  utheris.  The 
people  wald  be  exhorted  to  reverence  and  honour  thair  Mi- 
nisters chosin,  as  the  servandis  and  ambassadouris  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  obeying  the  commandiments  quhilk  thai  pronunce  from 
Goddis  mouth  and  buyk,^  evin  as  thai  wald  obey  God  him  self; 
for  quhosoevir  heareth  Christis  Ministeris  heareth  him  self,  and 
quhosoevir  rejecteth  tlianie,  [and]  dispyseth  thair  ministerie 
and  exhortatioun,  rejecteth  and  dispyseth  Christ  Jesus. 

Other  ceremonie  then  the  publict  approbatioun  of  the  j)eple, 
and  declaratioun  of  the  clieiif  minister,  that  the  persone  thair 
presented  is  aj^poynted  to  serve  that  Kirk,  we  can  nott  ap- 
prove ;  for  albeit  the  Apostillis  used  the  impositioun  of  handis,  [ 
yet  seing  the  mirakle  is  ceassed,  the  using  of  the  ceremonie  we 
juge  is  nott  necessarie. 

The  Minister  elected  or  presented,  examinated,*  and,  as 
said  is,  publictlie  admitted,  man  neather  leave  the  floke  at  his 
plesour,  to  the  quhilk  he  lies  promissit  his  fidelitie  and  law- 
bouris;  neather  yit  may  the  floke  reject  nor  change  him  at 
thair  appetite,  unless  thai  be  abill  to  convict  him  of  suche 
crymes  as  deserve  depositioun ;  quhairof  Ave  sail  after  speik. 

'  In   Yautr.  edit.,    and    edit.  1G21,  ^  In   edit.    1621,   "  they  pronounce 

"  which  the  church  oweth."  from  God's  word." 

^  In  edit.  1621,  "  pastor."  *  In  edit.  1621,  "  examined." 

VOL.  II.  N 


194  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

We  meane  nott  bot  that  the  hole  Kirk,  or  the  most  parte 
thairof,  for  just  considerationis,  may  transfer  a  Minister  frome 
one  kirk  to  another ;  neather  yit  meane  we,  that  men  quho 
now  do  serve  as  it  wer  of  benevolence  may  nott  be  appointed 
and  elected  to  serve  in  other  places ;  but  onis  being  solemndlie 
elected  and  admitted,  we  can  not  approve  that  thai  suld  change 
at  thair  awin  plesour. 

We  are  not  ignorant,  that  the  raritie  of  godlie  and  learned 
men  sail  seme  to  some  a  just.reassone  quhy  that  so  strait  and 
scharpe  examinatioun  suld  not  be  takin  universallie  ;  for  so  it 
sail  appeir,  that  the  most  parte  of  [the]  Kirkis  sail  half  no 
Minister  at  all :  But  let  these  men  understand,  that  the  lack 
of  able  men  sail  nott  excuse  us  befoir  God,  gif  by  oure  con- 
sent unable  men  be  placed  over  the  floke  of  Christ  Jesus ;  as 
also  that  amangis  the  Gentilles,  godlie,  learned  men  war  als 
rare^  as  thai  be  now  amangis  us,  quhen  the  Apostill  gave  the 
same  reul  to  tiy  and  examyne  Ministeris,  quhilk  we  now  fol- 
low :  And  last,  lat  thame  understand  that  it  is  alike  to  have 
no  minister  at  all,  and  to  have  an  idole  in  the  place  of  a  treu 
minister,  yea  and  in  some  case,  it  is  worse  ;  for  those  that  be 
utterlie  destitute  of  ministeris  wilbe  diligent  to  search  for 
them ;  but  those  that  have  a  vane  schaddow,  do  commonlie 
without  farther  cair  content  thame  selfis  with  the  same,  and 
so  remane  thai  continewallie  deceaved,  thinking  that  thai  have 
a  Minister,  quhen  in  vcrray  deid  thai  have  none.  For  we  can 
nott  juge  him  a  dispensatour  of  Goddis  mysteries,  that  in  no 
wyise  can  breke  the  breid  of  lyif  to  the  faynting  and  hungrie 
saulis ;  neather  juge  we  that  the  Sacramentis  can  be  rychtlie 
ministred  by  him,  in  quhais  mouth  God  hes  put  no  sermon  of 
exhortatioun. 

The  cheiffest  remedy  left  till  your  Honouris  and  to  us,  in  all 
this  raritie  of  trew  ministeris,  is  feiTent  prayer  unto  God,  that 
it  will  pleis  his   mercye  to  thrust  out  faithfull  warkmen  in 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  and  learned  men  were  also  rare." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  195 

this  his  harvest ;  ^  and  nyxt,  that  your  Honouris,  with  con- 
sent of  the  Kirk,  are  bound  by  your  authoritie  to  compell 
suche  men  as  have  giftis  and  graces  able  to  edifie  the  Kirk 
of  God,  that  thai  bestow  thame  quhair  greittest  necessitie  salbe 
knawin  ;  for  no  man  may  be  permittit  to  leve  idill,  or  as 
thame  self  list,  but  must  be  appointed  to  travell  quhair  your 
Wisdomes  and  the  Kirk  sail  think  expedient. 

We  can  nott  prescryve  unto  your  Honouris  certane  reuU 
how  that  ye  sail  distribute  the  ministeris  and  lerned  men, 
quhom  God  lies  alreddy  send  unto  you.  But  heirof  we  ar 
assured,  that  it  greitlie  hindereth  the  progress  of  Christis 
Evangell  within  this  poore  Realme,  that  some"  altogither 
abstract  thair  lawbouris  from  the  Kirk,  and  utheris  remane  to- 
gither^  in  one  place,  the  most  parte  of  thame  being  idill.  And 
thairfoir  of  your  Honouris  we  requyre  in  Goddis  name,  that 
by  your  auctoritie  quhilk  ye  have  of  God,  ye  compell  all  men 
to  quhom  God  hes  gevin  ony  talent  to  persuade,  by  holsome 
doctrine,  to  bestow  the  same,  gif  thai  be  called  be  the  Kirk 
to  the  advancement  of  Christis  glorie,  and  to  the  conforte  of 
his  trublit  flock ;  and  that  ye,  with  the  consent  of  the  Kirk, 
assigne  unto  your  cheiffest  workmen,  not  onlie  townis  to  re- 
mane into,  but  also  provinces,  that  be  thair  faithfuU  law- 
bouris kirkis  may  be  erected,  and  ordour  established,  quhair 
none  is  now.  And  gif  on  this  manor  ye  will  use  your  power 
and  auctoritie,  cheiflie  seiking  Goddis  glorie,  and  the  conforte 
of  your  brethrein,  Ave  doubt  not  but  God  sail  bliss  you  and 
your  interprisses. 

IV.  For  Readaris. 
To  the  Kirkis  3  quhair  no  ministeris  can  be  haid  presentlie, 
must  be  appointed  the  most  apt  men,  that  distinctlie  can  read 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  thurst  forth  faith-  "  kirkis,"  are  uniformly  "  Church"  and 

full  workmen  into  this  his  harvest."  "  chui-ches,"  throughout  a  considerable 

-In  edit.  1621,  "  altogether."  portion  of  this  book;   but  see  note  2, 

3    In    edition    1621,     "Kirk"    and  page  201. 


19(5  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

the  Commoiine  Prayerisi  and  the  Scrij^tiiris,  to  exercise  boyth 
thame  selfis  and  tlie  kirk,  till  thai  growe  to  greattar  perfec- 
tioun  ;  and  in  process  of  tyrae  he  that  is  but  ane  Readar  may 
atteane  to  the  further  gree,^  and  by  consent  of  the  kirk  and 
discreit  ministeris,  may  be  permittit  to  minister  the  sacra- 
mentis  ;  but  not  befoir  that  he  be  able  somequhat  to  per- 
suade by  holsorae  doctrine,  besydis  his  reading,  and  be  ad- 
mitted to  the  ministerie,  as  before  is  said.  Some  we  knaw 
that  of  long  tyme  have  professed  Christ  Jesus,  quhose  honest 
conversatioun  deserved  praise  of  all  godlie  men,  and  quhose 
knawledge  also  mycht  greatlie  help  the  simple,  and  yit  thai 
onlie  content  thame  selfis  with  reading.  These  must  be  ani- 
mated, and  by  gentle  admonitioun  incuraged,  by  some  exhor- 
tatioun  to  conforte  thair  brethrein,  and  so  thai  may  be  ad- 
mitted to  administratioun  of  the  sacramentis.  But  suche 
Readeris  as  neather  have  haid  exercise,  nor  continuance  in 
Christis  trew  religioun,  must  abstene  from  ministratioun  of  the 
sacramentis,  till  thai  geve  declaratioun  and  witnessing  of  thair 
honestie  and  farther  knawlege. 

*For  The  Lordis  thinkis,  That  nane  be  admitted  to  preche,^ 
but  thai  that  ar  qualifiet  thairfoir,  but  rather  be  reteaned 
readaris  ;  and  sick  as  ar  prechearis  alreaddy,  not  fundin  quali- 
fiet thairfoir  be  the  Superintendent,  be  placed  to  be  readaris. 


The   Fyft   Heid,   concernying   the   Provisioun   for  the 

Ministeris,  and  for  the  distributioun  of  the  Rentis 

and  possessionis  justlie  appertenyng  to  the  kirk.* 

Seing  that  of  our  Maister  Christ  Jesus  and   his   Apostle 

Paule,  we  have,  "  That  the  warkman  is  worthy  of  his  reward," 

'  That  is,   the   Prayers   that    were  sentence  having  been  added ;  and  thus 

usually  printed  with  the  Book  of  Com-  connects  it  with  the  preceding  words, 

mon  Order,  and  the  Psalms  in  metre.  "  honestie  and  further  knowledge,  that 

-  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  a  farther  degree;"  none  be  admitted  to  preach,"  &c.  Vautr 

Vautr.  edit,  is  the  same  as  the  text.  edit,  is  nearly  the  same  with  the  text. 

3  The  edit.  1621,  takes  no  notice  of  this  <  In  edit.  1 722,  Chap.  V. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  107 

and  tluit,  "  The  moutli  of  the  lawboring  oxe  aucht  iiott  to  bo 
muzilled,"  of  neccssitie  it  is,  that  honest  jn-ovisioun  be  maid  for 
the  Ministeris,  quhilk  we  requyre  to  be  siichc,  tliat  thai  haif 
neather  occasioun  of  sollicitiide,  neather  yit  of  insolencie  and 
wantoness.  And  this  provisioun  must  be  maid  not  onlie  for 
thair  awin  sustentatioun,  during  thair  lyiffes,  but  also  for  thair 
wiffis  and  childrene  efter  thame.  For  we  juge  it  a  thing  most 
contrariouse  to  reassone,  godlines,  and  equitie,  that  the  wedow 
and  childrene  of  him,  quho  in^  his  lyiff  did  faithfullie 
seiTe2  the  Kirk  of  God,  and  for  that  cans  did  not  cairfuUie 
mak  provisioun  for  his  familie,  suld,  efter  his  deith,  be  left 
confortles  of  all  provisioun. 

*  Provisioun  for  the  W^^s  of  Ministeris  efter  thair  deceise,  • 
to  be  remittit  to  the  discretioun  of  the  Kirk.^ 

Difficill  it  is  to  appoint  a  several!  stipend  to  everie  Minister, 
be  reassoun  that  the  chargis  and  necessitie  of  all  will  not  be 
licke ;  for  some  wilbe  contenewaris  in  one  place,  some  wilbe 
compellit  to  travell,  and  oft  to  change  dwelling  place,  (gif  thai 
sail  have  charge  of  diverse  kirkis.)  Amangis  these,  some 
wilbe  burdened  with  wyiff  and  childrein,  and  one  with  mo 
then  ane  other ;  and  some  perchance  wilbe  single  men :  Gif 
equall  stijjendis  suld  be  appointed  to  all  those  that  in  charge 
ar  so  inequall,  eather  suld  the  one  suffer  jjenurie,  or  ellis  suld 
the  uther  have  superfluitie  and  too  muche. 

*  We  juge,   thairfor,    that    everie    Minister   have  sufficient  * 
quhairupoun  to  keip  ane  house,  and  be  sustened  honestlie  in 
all   thingis   necessarie,  alsweill   for  keiping  of  his  house,  as 
claithis,    flesche,    fische,   buykis,    [fewell,]   and   other   thingis 
necessarie,   [fiirth]  of  the  rentis  and  thesaurie*  of  the  kirk, 

*  Vautrollier's  suppressed  edition  the  MS.  It  is  taken  into  the  text  in 
breaks  ofl"  at  the  foot  of  page  560,  with  edit.  1621,  without  notice,  and  I'eads  ae 
these  words,  "  the  widow  and  the  child-  follows  :  "  be  left  comfortles  of  all  pro- 
reu  of  him  who  in."  See  vol.  i.  pp.  vision;  which  provision  for  the  wives," 
xxxii.  xxxix.-xlii.  &c.,  "  is  to  be,"  &c. 

-  In  edit.  1621,  "  serve  in."  *  In  MS.  1560,  "  tlic  same;"  in  edit. 

'This  addition  is  in  the  marriu  of       1621,  '■  and  treasurio." 


198  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

[where  he  serveth,]  at  the  discretioun  of  the  congregatioun, 
eonforme  to  the  qualitie  of  the  persone  and  necessitie  of 
the  tyme.  Quhairin  it  is  thocht  [good]  that  everie  Minister 
sail  have  at  leist  fourtie  hollis  meill,  and  twenty-six  hollis 
malt,  to  find  his  house  hreid  and  drink;  and  mair,  sa  mekilU  as 
the  discretioun  of  the  Kirk  findis  necessarie ;  besydes  money 
for  buying  of  uther  provisioun  to  his  house,  and  other  necessa- 
ries, the  modificatioun  quhairof  is  referred  to  the  jugement  of 
the  kirk,  to  be  maid  everie  yeir  at  the  chosing  of  the  eldaris 
and  deaconis  of  the  kirk.  Providing  alwayis,  that  tliair  be 
advanced  to  everie  minister  suJERcient  provisioun  for  ane  quar- 
ter of  ane  yeir  befoir  hand  of  all  thingis. 

To  him  2  that  travelleth  from  place  to  place,  quhom  we  call 
Superintendentis,  quho  remane  as  it  war  a  moneth  or  less  in 
one  place,  for  the  establishing  of  the  kirk,  and  for  the  same 
purpoise  changeing  to  ane  uther  place,  must  farther ^  con- 
sideratioun  be  liaid.  And,  thairfoir,  to  suche  we  think  sax 
chalder  beir,  nyne  chalder  meill,  thre  chalder  aittis  for  his 
horse,  v*'  markis*  money,  to  be  eikkit  and  pared  at  the  dis- 
cretioun of  the  Prince  and  Counsall  of  the  Realme  ;  to  be 
payit  to  him  yeirlie,  in  maner  foirsaid. 

The  children  of  the  Ministeris  must  have  the  liberties  of  the 
citeis  next  adjacent,  quhair  thair  fatheris  lawbored,  frelie 
granted.  Thai  must^  have  the  privileges  in  sculis,  and  bursis^ 
in  collegis ;  that  is,  that  thai  salbe  susteaned  at  learnyng,  gif 
thai  be  found  apt  tlierto  ;  and  failing  thairof  that  thai  be  put 
to  some  handycraft,  or  exercised  in  some  verteouse  Industrie, 
quhairby  thai  may  be  profitable  membres  in  a  commoun 
wealth. 

*And  the  same  we  requyre  for  thair  doiichteris ;    to  wit, 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "and more  so  much."  "  for  liis  horse;"  and  makes  it   "  six 

2  In  edit.  1621,  "  But  to  him."  himdreth  merkes  money." 

2  In  edit.  1621,  the  words  "  place,"  '  In  MS.  1566,  "  must,"  is  usually 

and  "  farther,"  are  omitted.  written  "  most." 

*  The  edit.   1621,   omits   the   words  « In  edit.  1621,  "  bursissis." 


THE  BUKE  OP  DISCIPLINE.  199 

that  thai  be  verteouslie  brocht  up,  and  honestlie  doted  quhen 
thai  come  to  maturitie  of  yeiris,  at  the  discretioun  of  the  Kirk. 

And  this  in  Goddis  presence  we  witness,  we  requyre  nott 
so  miiche  for  oure  selfis,  or  for  any  that  till  us  apperteneth, 
as  that  we  do  for  the  encrease  of  vertew  and  learnyng, 
and  for  the  proifeit  of  the  posteritie  to  come.  It  is  nott 
to  be  supposed  that  all  man^  will  dedicat  him  self  and 
childrene  so  to  God,  and  to  serve  his  kirk,  that  thai  luyke  for 
no  warldlie  commoditie.  But  this  cankered  nature  quliilk  we 
beare,  is  provokit  to  follow  vertew  quhen  it  seith  honour  and 
profeit  annexit  to  the  same  ;2  as,  contrairlie,  then  is  vertew  of 
mony  despised,  quhen  verteouse  and  godlie  men  leve  without 
honour.  And  sorye  wuld  we  be  that  povertie  suld  discourage 
men  from  studye,  and  from  following  the  way  of  vertew,  by  the 
quhilk  thai  mycht  edifie  the  kirk  and  flock  of  Christ  Jesus. 

Nothing  have  we  spokin  of  the  stipend  of  Readaris,  becaus, 
gif  thai  can  do  nothing  but  reade,  thai  neather  can  be  called 
nor  jugit  trew  ministeris :  And  yit  regard  must  be  haid  to 
thair  lawbouris ;  but  so  that  thai  may  be  spurred  fordwart  to 
vertew,  and  nott  by  a  stipend  appointed  for  thair  reading,  to 
be  reteaned  still  in  that  estait.  To  a  Readare  thairfor  that 
is  laitlie  enterit,  we  think  fourty  markis,  or  mair  or  less,  as 
the  Parochenaris  and  Readaris  can  agree,  sufficient :  providing 
that  he  teiche  the  childrene  of  the  parische,  quhilk  he  must 
do,  besydis  the  reading  of  the  Conimoun  Prayeris,^  and  buykis 
of  the  New  and  Auld  Testamentis.  Gif  frome  Reading  he  be- 
gin to  Exhorte*  and  explane  the  Scriptures,  then  aucht  his 
stipend  to  be  augmented ;  till  finallie  he  come  to  the  honour 
of  a  Minister:  But  and  gif  he  be  found  unable  efter  two 
yeiris,  then  must  he  be  removed  from  that  office,  and  dis- 
chargit  of  all  stipend,  that  another  may  be  provin  als  lang. 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  any  man."  *  There  were  persons  styled  Exhor- 

"  In  edit.  1621,   "  when  it  seeth  pro-  ters,  employed  in  the  Church  about  this 

fite  and  honour  tliercto  annexed ;  and."  time  :  see  next  paragraph. 
'  See  note  1,  page  196. 


200  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

For  this  alwayis  is  to  be  avoyded,  that  none  qulio  is  jugit  un- 
abill  to  come  at  ony  tyme  to  some  reasonable  knawlege, 
quhairby  he  may  edifie  the  Kirk,  sail  perpetuallie  be  nurisshedl 
upone  the  charge  of  the  kirk.  Farther,  it  must  be  avoided, 
that  no  child  or  persone  within  aige,  that  is,  within  xxj  yeir  of 
aige,  be  admitted  to  the  office  of  a  Readare  ;  but  Readaris 
audit  to  be  endowed  with  gravitie,  witt,  and  discretioun,  lest 
be  thair  lychtness  the  Prayeris  or  Scripturis  read  be  of  less 
price  and  estimatioun.  It  is  to  be  noted,  that  the  Readaris 
be  putt  in  by  the  Kirk,  and  admissioun  of  the  Superintendent. 

The  other  sorte  of  Readaris,  quho  have  long  continewed  in 
godliness,  and  have  some  gift  of  Exhortatioun,  quho  are  in 
hope  to  atteane  to  the  degree  of  a  minister,  and  teche  the 
childrene;  we  think  ane  hundreth  markis,  or  mair^  at  the  dis- 
cretioun of  the  Kirk,  may  be  appointed ;  so  that  difference,  as 
said  is,  be  betwix  thame  and  the  ministeris  that  openlie  preche 
the  Word,  and  minister  the  Sacramentis. 

Restis  yit  other  two  sortis  of  peple  to  be  provided  for,  of 
that  quhilk  is  called  the  patrimonye  of  the  Kirk  ;  to  wit,  the 
Poore,  and  Toachearis  of  the  youtheid.  Every  severall  Kirk 
must  provide  for  the  poore  within  the  self;  for  fearful  and 
horrible  it  is,  that  the  poore,  quhom  nott  onlie  God  the  Father 
in  his  law,  but  Christ  Jesus  in  his  evangell,  and  the  Holie 
Spreit  speaking  by  Sanct  Paule,  hath  so  earnestlie  commended 
to  oure  cayre,  ar  universallie  so  contempned  and  dispysed. 
We  ar  nott  patronis  for  stubburne  and  idill  beggaris,  quho, 
rynning  from  place  to  place,  mak  a  craft  of  thair  beggyng, 
quhom  the  Civile  Magistrat  aucht  to  punyshe  ;^  but  for  the 
wedow  and  fatherless,  the  aiged,  impotent,  or  laymed,  quho 
neather  can  nor  may  travell  for  thair  sustentatioun,  we  say, 
that  God  commandeth  his  pepill  to  be  caiifiill;  and  thairfor,  for 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  shall  be  perpetually  •''  The  edit.  1722,  supplies  the  words, 

sustained."  "  ought  to  [compell  to  work,  or  then] 

°  In  edit.  1621,  "  or  mair  or  less."  punish." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  201 

sucho,  as  also  for  personis  of  lionestie  fallin  in[to]  decay  and 
penuritie/  audit  suclie  provisioun^  bo  maid,  tliat  [of]  oure 
aboundance  should  tliair  indigence  be  releaved.  How  this 
most  convenientlie  and  most  casilie  may  be  done  in  everie 
citio,  and  uthir  partis  of  this  Realme,  God  shall  schaw  you 
wisdome  and  the  meanis,  so  that  youre  myndis  be  godlie  thair- 
to  inclyned.  All  must  not  be  suffered  to  beg-  that  gladlie  so 
wald  do  ;  neather  yit  most  beggeris  remane  whare  thei  chuse  ;^ 
but  the  stout  and  strong  beggar  must  be  compelled  to  wirk, 
and  everie  persoun  that  may  noclit  wirk,  must  be  compelled  to 
repair  to  the  place  whare  he  or  scho  was  born,  (unles  of  long 
continuance  thai  have  remaned  in  one  place,)  and  thair  reasson- 
able  provisioun  must  be  maid  for  thair  sustentatioun,  as  the 
Churche  shall  appoint.  The  ordour  nor  soumes,  in  oure  judge- 
mentis,  can  nott  be  particularlie  appointed,  unto  suche  tyme 
as  the  poore  of  everie  citie,  toun,  or  parrishe,  be  compelled  to 
repair  to  the  places  whaire  thei  war  borne,  or  of  thair  resi- 
dences, whaire  thair  names  and  nomber  must  be  tackin  and 
put  in  roll ;  and  then  may  the  Avisdome  of  the  Kirk  appoint 
stipendis  accordinglye. 

I.  Off  the  Superintendentis."^ 
Becaus  we  have  appointed  ane  largear  stipend  to  these  that 
shalbe  Superintendentis  then  to  the  rest  of  the  Ministeris,  we 
have  thocht  goode  to  signifie  unto  your  Honouris,  suche  reas- 

'  In  edit.  1G21,   "  fallen   into  decay  it    will    be    observed   that    the   ■word 

and  poverty."  "  Church"  is  now  employed ;  and  curi- 

-  In  this  place  of  the  MS.  1566,  a  ously  enough,  in  Calderwood's  edition, 

blank  space  occurs,  at  the  conclusion  of  1621,  this  is   reversed,  and  "  Chui'ch," 

one  of  the  re-written  quires,  with  the  which   had   hitherto  been  used,   gives 

catcliword  "■  such  proti-,"  in  connexion  place  to  "  Ivii-k." 

with  the  top  of  the  next  quire,  which  is  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "  where  they  would." 

written   in   a  kind   of  official   square  *  In  edit.  1621,    "The  Head  of  the 

hand,  and  was  probably  a  portion  of  Superintendents."    In  edit.  1722,  Chap, 

the  copy  laid   before   the   Convention,  VI. 
in  January  1561.     Instead  of  "Kirk," 


202  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

sonis  as  moved  us  to  mak  difference  betwix  preacliearis  at  this 
tjme  ;  as  also  how  many  Superintendentis  we  think  neeessarie, 
with  thair  boimdis,  office,  [the  manner  of  their]  electioun,  and 
causses  that  may  deserve  depositioun  frome  that  charge. 

We  considder  that  yf  the  Ministeris  whome  God  hath  en- 
dewed  with  his  [singular]  graces  amangis  us,  should  be  ap- 
pointed to  severall  and  certane  j)lacis,  thair  to  mak  thair  con- 
tinuall  residence,  that  then  the  greatest  part  off  this  Realrae 
should  be  destitute  of  all  doctrine  ;  whiche  should  not  onlie  be 
occasioun  of  greate  murmure,  but  also  should  be  dangerus  to 
the  salvatioun  of  manye.  And  thairfore  we  have  thoclit  it  a 
thing  most  expedient  for  this  tyme,  that  frome  the  whole 
nomber  of  godlie  and  learned  [men],  now  presentlie  in  this 
Realme,  be  selected  twelf  or  ten,  (for  in  sa  mony  Provincis  have 
we  divideit  the  hoill,)  to  whome  charge  and  commandiment 
shalbe  gevin^  to  plant  and  erect  churches,  to  set  ordour  and 
appoint  ministeris  (as  the  formar  Ordour  prescribeth)  to  the 
contreis  that  sail  be  appointed  to  thair  cayre  whaire  none  ar 
now  ;  and  by  these  meannis  [your]  luff  and  common  caire  ower 
all  the  inhabitantis  of  this  Realme  (to  quhome  ye  ar  equall 
debttouris)  shall  evidentlie  appeare ;  as  also  the  simpill  and 
ignorant  (who  perchance  have  never  heard  Christ  Jesus  trewlie 
preached)  shall  come  to  some  knawlege,  by  the  which  manye 
that  now  be  deid  in  superstitioun  and  ignorance  shall  atteane 
to  some  fealling  of  godlynes,  by  the  whiche  thei  may  be  pro- 
vocked  to  searche  and  seik  farther  knawledge  of  God,  and  his 
trew  rcligioun  and  wirschipping.  Whaire  be  the  contrarie,  yf 
thei  shalbe  neglected,  thei  shall  not  onlie  grudge,  but  also  thei 
shall  seik  the  meanis  whairby  thei  may  continew  in  thair  blind- 
nes,  or  returne  to  thair  accustumed  idolatrie.  And  thairfore 
no  thing  desire  Ave  more  earnistlie,  then  that  Christ  Jesus  be 
universallic  once  preached  throuchout  this  Realme ;  whiche 
shall  not  suddanlie  be  unles  that  by  you,  men  be  appointed 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  ten  or  twelve,"  &c.,  and  "  and  should  be  giveu." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  203 

and  compelled  faithfuUie  to  travell  in  suclie  Provinces  as  to 
tliame  shall  be  assignit. 

II.  The  Names  of  the  Placis  oe  Residence,  and  severall 
Dioceses  of  the  Superintendentis. 

Imprimis,  tlie  Superintendent  of  Orknay :  whose  Diocesye 
shalbe  to  the  Ylis  of  Orknay,  Sheitland,  Caithnes,^  and 
Straythnaver.     His  residence  to  be  in  the  Toun  of  Kirkwall. 

2.  The  Superintendent  of  Ross ;  whose  Diocesye  shall  com- 
prehend Ross,  Suthirland,  Murray,  with  the  North  Ylis  of  the 
Sky,  and  the  Lewis,  with  thair  adjacentis.  His  residence  to 
be  in  Channonrie  of  Ross. 

8.  The  Superintendent  of  Ergile  ;  whose  Diocesye  shall  com- 
prehend Argile,  [Kyntyre,]  Lome,  the  South  Ylis,  Arrane  [and] 
Bute,  with  thair  adjacents,  with  Lochquhaber.  His  residence 
to  be  in  [Argylc.] 

4.  The  Superintendent  of  Abirdene ;  whose  Diocesye  is  be- 
twix  Dee  and  Spay,  conteanand  the  schirefdome  of  Abirdene 
and  Bamff.     His  residence  to  be  in  Auld  Abirdene. 

5.  The  Superintendent  of  Brechin  ;  whose  Diocesye  shalbe 
the  hole  schirefdomes  of  Mearnis  and  Anguss,  and  the  Bray  of 
Mar  to  Dee.     His  residence  to  be  in  Brechin. 

6.  The  Superintendent  of  Sanctandrois  ;  whose  Diocesye  shall 
comprehend  the  hoill  schirefdome  of  Fyffe^  and  Fotheringhame, 
to  Striveling  ;  and  the  hoill  schirefdome  of  Perth.  His  resi- 
dence to  be  in  Sanctandrois. 

7.  The  Superintendent  of  Edinburght ;  whose  Diocesye  shall 
comprehend  the  hoill  schirefdomes  of  Lowthiane,  and  Striveling 
on  the  south  syde  of  the  Watter  of  Forth  ;^  and  thairto  is  added, 
by  consent  of  the  hoill  Churche,  Mersse,  Lauderdaill,  and  Wed- 
dell.     His  residence  to  be  in  [Edinburgh.] 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  whose  diocesse  shall  is  omitted  :  it  reads  "  The  Superintend- 

comprehend  the  Isles  Orknay,  Zetland,  ent    of  Fiflfe    and    Fotheringhame  to 

and  Caithnes,"  &c.  Stirling." 

"  In  edit.  1621,  part  of  this  sentence  ^  See  following  note,  page  204. 


204  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

8.  Tlie  Superintendent  of  Jedburgh ;  whose  Diocesje  shall 
comprehend  Thevedaill,  Tweddell,  Liddisdaill,^  with  the  For- 
rest of  Ethrick.     His  residence  to  be  [Jedburgh.] 

9.  The  Superintendent  of  Glasgow ;  whose  Diocesje  shall 
comprehend  Cliddisdale,  RenfreAv,  Menteith,  Levinax,  Kyle, 
and  Cunvnghame.     His  residence  to  be  in  Grlasgow. 

10.  The  Superintendent  of  Dumfriese ;  whose  Diocesye  .sail 
comprehend  Galloway,  Carrik,  Niddisdaill,  Annanderdaill,  with 
the  rest  of  the  Daillis  in  the  West.  His  residence  to  be  in 
Drumfreise. 

Those  men  must  not  be  .suffeiTed  to  leave  as  your  idill 
Bischopis  have  done  heirtofore ;  neather  most  thei  remane 
whaire  gladlie  thei  wald :  But  thei  must  be  preachearis  thame 
selves,  and  suche  as  may  mak  no  long  residence  in  ony  one 
place,  till  thair  Churches  be  2  planted  and  provided  of  Minis- 
ters, or  at  the  leist  of  Reidaris. 

Charge  must  be  gevin  to  thame  that  thei  remane  in  no  one 
place  above  twenty  or  threttye^  dayis  in  thair  visitatioun,  till 
thei  have  passed  throucht  thair  hoill  boundis.  Thei  must 
thryise  everie  weake  at  the  least  preache  ;  and  when  thei 
returne  to  thair  principall  town  and  residence,  thei  must  be 
likewise  exerci-sit  in  jn-eacheing  and  in  edificatioun  of  the 
Churche  thaire ;  and  yet  thei  must  not  be  suffered  to  continew 
thair  so  long,  as  thei  may  seame  to  neglect  thaire  uthir 
Churches :  but  efter  that  thei  have  remaned  in  thair  cheif 
toun  thre  or  four  monethis  at  most,  thei  shall  be  compelled 
(onles  be  seiknes  onlie  thei  be  reteaned,)  to  re-enter  in  visita- 
tioun, in  which  thei  shall  not  onlie  preache,  but  also  examyn 
the  life,  diligence,  and  behaviour  of  the  Ministeris ;  as  also  the 

^  The  words   after   "  the  Watter   of  whole  Kirk,  the  Merse,  Lawderdaill  and 

Forth,"  in  clause  7,  are  transferred  to  Weddaill,  with  the  Forrest  of  Ettrick." 

this   clause,   in   edit.    1621:   it  reads,  *  In  edit.  1021,  "  may  not  make  long 

"  whose  Dioccsse  shall  comprehend  the  residence  in  any  place  till  thair  kirkis." 

whole  Tivitdail,  Tweedaill,  Liddisdail,  ^  The  words  "  or  threttye,"  (thirty,) 

and  thereto  is  added  by  consent  of  the  omitted  in  edit.  1621. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  205 

ordour  of  tbaire  Churches,  [and]  the  maneris  of  the  people. 
Thei  must  farther  consider  how  the  poore  he  provided:  how  the 
youth  be  instructed :  thei  must  admonische  wliaire  admo- 
nitioun  neidith,  dresse  suche  thingis  as  by  goodc  counsall  thei 
be  able  to  appease :  and,  finalie,  thei  must  note  suche  crymes 
as  be  haynouse,  that  by  the  censure  of  the  Church  the  same 
may  be  corrected. 

Yf  the  Superintendent  be  fund  negligent  in  any  of  these 
cheaf  pointis  of  his  office,  and  especiallie  yf  he  be  noted  negli- 
gent in  preacheing  of  the  word,  and  in  visitatioun  of  his 
Churches  ;  or  yf  he  be  convict  of  ony  of  those  ciymis,  which 
in  the  common  Ministeris  ar  dampned,  he  must  be  deposit, 
Avithout  respect  of  his  persoun  or  office. 

III.  Off  the  Electioun  of  Superintendentis. 

In  this  present  necessitie,  the  nominatioun,  examinatioun, 
and  admissioun  of  Superintendentis,  can  not  be  so  strait  as  we 
require,  and  as  afterward  it  must  be. 

For  this  present,  thairfore,  we  think  sufficient  that  eather 
your  Honouris,  by  your  selves,  nominat  sa  mony  as  may  serve 
the  fore-written  jjrovincis ;  or  that  ye  gyff  commissioun  to  suche 
men,  as  in  whome  ye  suppoise  the  feir  of  God  [to  be]  to  do  the 
same ;  and  that  the  same  men  being  called  in  your  presence 
shalbe  by  you,  and  by  suche  as  your  Honouris  please  call  unto 
3^ou  for  consultatioun  in  that  case,  appointed  to  thair  provinces. 
We  think  it  expedient  and  necessarie,  that  als  weill  the  gentil- 
men,  as  burgesses  of  everie  diocese,  be  maid  privie  at  the  same 
tyme  to  the  electioun  of  the  Superintendent,  alsweill  to  bring 
the  Churche  in  sum  practise  of  hir  libertie,  as  to  mak  the 
pastor  better  favorit  of  the  flocke  whome  thame  selves  have 
chosin.  Yff  your  Honouris  can  not  find  for  this  present  sa 
many  able  men  as  the  necessitie  requireth,  then,  in  our  judge- 
mentis,  more  proffitable  it  is  that  those  provincis  vaik  till 
God   provide   better,    than   that    men   unabill   to    edifie  and 


206  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

governe  the  Cliurclie  be  suddanlie  placit  in  that  charge.  For 
experience  hath  taught  us,l  what  pestilence  hath  bene  en- 
gendred  in  the  Church  by  men  unabill  to  discharge  thair 
offices. 

Wlien,  thairfore,  after  thre  yeiris  any  Superintendent  shall 
departe,  or  chance  to  be  deposed,  the  cheaf  town  within  that 
province,  to  wit,  the  Ministeris,  Elders,  and  Deaconis,  with  the 
Magistrat  and  Counsall  of  the  same  town,  shall  nominat,  and 
by  publict  edictis  proclame,  alsweill  to  the  Superintendent,  as 
to  twa  or  thre  provinces  nixt  adjacent,  two  or  thre  of  the  most 
learned  and  most  godlie  Ministeris  within  the  hole  realme, 
that  frome  amangis  thame,  one  with  publict  consent  may  be 
electit  and  ajipointed  to  the  office  then  vaiking :  and  this  the 
cheaf  Town  shall  be  bound  to  do  within  the  terme  of  twenty 
dayis.  Wliiche  being  expired  and  no  man  presented,  then 
shall  thre  of  the  nixt  adjacent  provincis,  with  consent  of  thair 
Superintendentis,  Ministeris,  and  Elderis,  enter  in  into  the 
rycht  and  priviledgeis  of  the  cheaf  town,  and  shall  present 
everie  one  of  thame  one,  or  two  yf  thei  list,  to  the  cheaf  town, 
to  be  examinated  as  the  Ordour  requireth.  As  also,  it  shalbe 
lauchfull  for  all  the  churches  of  the  Diocesye  to  nominat  with- 
in the  same  tyme  suclie  personis  as  thei  think  worthye  to 
stand  in  electioun ;  which  man  be  put  in  edict.  2 

After  the  nominationis  be  maid,  publict  edictis  must  be 
send,  first  warnyng  all  men  that  have  any  objectioun^  againis 
the  personis  nominatit,  or  against  ony  ane  of  thame,  to  be 
present  in  the  cheaf  toun  at  day  and  place  affixit,  to  object 
what  thei  can  against  the  electioun  of  any  one  of  thame. 
Threttye  dayis  we  think  sufficient  to  be  assigned  thairto ; 
thretty  dayis,  we  meane,  after  that  the  nominatioun  be  maid. 

Wliiche  day  of  electioun  being  come,  the  hoill  Ministeris  of 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "hath  teached  us."  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "sent  forth,  warning 

*  In  edit.  1621,  "  Electioun,  wlio  all      all  men  that  have  any  exception." 
must  be  put  in  an  Edict." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  207 

that  ProAdnce,  with  thre  or  mol  of  the  Superintendentis  nixt 
adjacent,  or  that  sail  thairto  be  named,2  shall  examyn  not 
onlie  the  learnying-j  but  also  the  maneris,  prudence,  and  habi- 
litie  to  governe  the  Church e,  of  all  those  that  ar  nominat;  that 
he  who  shallbe  fund  most  worthye,  may  be  burdened  with  the 
charge.  Yif  the  Ministeris  of  the  whole  Province  should  bring 
with  them  the  voitis  of  those  that  war  committit  to  thair 
caire,  the  electioun  should  be  the  more  fre ;  hot  alwayis,  the 
voitis  of  all  those  that  convene  must  be  requirit.^  The  exami- 
nationis  must  be  publictlie  maid ;  those  that  stand  in  elec- 
tioun must  publictlie  preache ;  and  men  must  be  chargeit  in 
the  name  of  God,  to  voit  according  to  conscience,  and  not  efter 
affectioun.  Yf  ony  thing  be  objectit  against  any  that  stand^ 
in  electioun,  the  Superintendentis  and  Ministeris  must  con- 
sidder  whether  the  objectioun  be  maid  of  conscience  or  of 
malice,  and  thei  must  ansueir  accordinglie.  Other  ceremonies 
then  scharp  examinatioun,  approbatioun  of  the  Ministeris  and 
Superintendentis,  with  the  publict  consent  of  the  Elderis  and 
People,  then  present,^  we  can  not  allow. 

The  Superintendent  being  electit,  and  appointed  to  his 
charge,  must  be  subjected  to  the  censur  and  correctioun  of  the 
Ministeris  and  Elderis,  not  onlie  of  his  cheaf  Toun,  but  also  of 
the  hoill  Province  over  the  whiche  he  is  appointed  oversear. 

Yf  his  oflencis^  be  knawin,  and  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis 
of  his  Province'^  be  negligent  in  correcting  him,  then  the  nixt 
one  or  two  Superintendentis,  with  thair  Ministeris  and  Elderis, 
may  convene  him,  and  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis  of  his  cheaf 
toun,  (provideit  that  it  be  within  his  awin  Province  or  cheaf 
toun,)  and  may  accuse  and  correct  alsweale  the  Superinten- 

1    In  edit.    1621,    "  with  three  or  *  lu  edit.  1621,  «  against  him  that 

foure."  standeth." 

-  In  edit.  1621,   "or  that  shall  be  ^  E(iit.  1621,  omits  "the  present." 

thareto  nominated."  ^  In  edit,  1621,  "  his  offence." 

3  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  votes  of  them  '  In  edit.  1621,  "  Elders  of  the  Toun 

that  convene  should  be  required."  and  Province." 


208  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

dent  in  those  tliingis  that  ar  worthy  of  correctioun,  as  the 
Ministeris  and  Elderis  for  thair  negligence  and  ungodlie  toUe- 
rance  of  his  offencis. 

Whatsoever  cryme  deserve  correctioun  or  dej^ositioun  of  any 
other  minister,  deserveth  the  samin  in  the  Superintendent, 
without  exceptioun  of  persoun. 

After  that  the  Churche  be  establischeit,!  and  thre  yeiris  be 
passed,  we  require  that  na  man  be  callit  to  the  office  of  a 
Superintendent,  who  hath  not  tuo  yeiris  at  tlie  leist  gevin  de- 
claratioun  of  his  faithfull  lawbouris  in  the  ministerie  of  some 
churclie.^ 

No  Superintendent  may  be  transferrit  at  the  plesour  or  re- 
queist  of  ony  one  Province ;  no,  not  witliout  the  consent  of  tlie 
whole  counsall  of  the  Churche,  and  that  for  grave  causses  and 
considderationis. 

Off  one  thing,  in  the  end,  we  must  admonische  your  Ho- 
nouris,  to  wit,  that  in  appointing  Superintendentis  for  this 
present,  ye  disappoint  not  your  cheaf  Tounis,  and  whair  learn- 
ing is  exercised,  of  suche  ministeris  as  more  may  proffit  be  re- 
sidence in  one  place,  than  be  continewall  travell  frome  place 
to  place :  For  if  ye  so  do,  the  youth  in  those  placis  shall 
lacke  the  profound  interpretatioun  of  the  Scripturis ;  and  so 
shall  it  be  long  before  that  your  gardenis  send  furth  many 
plantis  ;  whair  by  the  contrarie,  yf  one  or  tuo  tounis  be  con- 
tinewallie  exercised  as  thei  may,  the  Commoun -wealth  shall 
schortlie  taist  of  thair  fruct,^  to  the  confort  of  the  godlie. 


For  the  Sciiollis.^ 

Seeing  that  the  office  and  dewtie  of  the  godlie  Magistrat  is 
nocht   onlie  to  purge  the  Churche  of  God  from  all  supersti- 

'  In  edit.  1G21,  "  Kirk  is  establi.slied."  =>  In  edit.  1G21,  "  feast  of  their  fruit." 

^n  edit.  1621,  "in  the  niinistrie  of  ■•   lu   edit.    1722,    "  Chap.    VII.   Of 

the  same  Kirk."  Schools  [and  Universities.]" 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  209 

tioun,  and  to  set  it  at  libertie  from  bondage  of  tyrranis  ;l  but 
also  to  provide,  to  the  uttermost  of  his  power,  how  it  may 
abide  in  the  same  puritie  to  the  posteriteis^  following ;  we  can 
not  but  frelie^  communicat  our  judgementis  with  your  Ho- 
nouris  in  this  behalf. 

I.  The  necessitie  of  Sciiollis.-^ 

Seing  that  Grod  hath  determined  that  his  Churche  heir  in 
earth,  shallbe  tawght  not  be  angellis  but  by  men ;  and  seing 
that  men  ar  born  ignorant  of  all  godlynes  ;  and  seing,  also, 
now  God  ceassitho  to  illuminat  men  miraculuslie,  suddanlie 
changeing  thame,  as  that  he  did  his  Apostlis  and  utheris  in 
the  Primitive  Churche  :  oif  necessitie  it  is  that  your  Hoiiouris 
be  most  cairfull  for  the  virtuous  educatioun,  and  godlie  up- 
bringing of  the  youth  of  this  Realme,  yf  eathir  ye  now  thirst  un- 
feanedlie  [for]  the  advancement  of  Christis  glorie,  or  yit  desire 
the  continewance  of  his  benefits  to  the  generatioun  following. 
For  as  the  youth  must  succeed  till  us,  so  audit  we  to  be  cair- 
full that  thei  have  the  knaAvlege  and  eniditioun,  to  proffit  and 
confort  that  whiche  aucht  to  be  most  deare  to  us,  to  wit,  the 
Churche  and  Spouse  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 

Off  necessitie  thairfore  we  judge  it,  that  everie  severall 
Churche  have  a  Scholmaister^  appointed,  suche  a  one  as  is 
able,  at  least,  to  teache  Gramraer  and  the  Latine  toung,  yf 
the  Toun  be  of  any  reputatioun.  Yf  it  be  Upaland,  whaire  the 
people  convene  to  doctrine  bot  once  in  the  weeke,  then  must 
eathir  the  Reidar  or  the  Minister  thair  appointed,  take  cayre 

*  In  edit.  1621,  "from  tyranny  and  fessions,  in  1722,   has  not  only  niini- 

bondage."  bered  the  chapters  and  sub-divisions, 

-  In  edit.  1621,  "  in  some  purity  in  but  also  the  paragi-aphs  of  each  chap- 

the  posterity."  ter. 

'In  edit.  1621,  "  we  can  butfi-eely."  ^  In   edit.   1621,    "  ignorant  of  God 

■•  In   the   present   edition,   the  sub-  and  of  all  godliness,  and  seing  also  he 

divisions  have  been  numbered,  I.,  II.,  ceasses." 

&c.    The  Editor  of  the  Collection  of  Con-  « In  edit.  1621,  "  Kirk  have  one." 

VOL.  II.  O 


210  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

over  the  children  and  youth  of  the  parische,  to  instruct  them 
in  thair  first  rudimentis,  and  especiallie  in  the  Catechisme,i 
as  we  have  it  now  translaited  in  the  Booke  of  our  Common 
Ordour,  callit  the  Ordour  of  Geneva.^  And  farther,  we  think 
it  expedient,  that  in  everie  notable  toun,  and  especiallie  in 
the  toun  of  the  Superintendent,  [there]  be  erected  a  Colledge, 
in  whiche  the  Artis,  at  least  Logick  and  Rethorick,  togidder 
with  the  Tongues,  be  read  be  sufficient  Maisteris,  for  whome 
honest  stipendis  must  be  appointed :  as  also  provisioun  for 
those  that  be  poore,  and  be  nocht  able  by  them  selfis,  nor  by 
thair  freindis,  to  be  sustened  at  letteris,  especiallie  suche  as 
come  frome  Landwaii;. 

The  fi-ute  and  commoditie  heirof  shall  suddanlie  appeare. 
For,  first,  the  youtheid  and  tender  children  sail  be  nurischit 
and  brocht  up  in  virtue,  in  presence  of  thair  freindis ;  by 
whose  good  attendence  many  inconvenientis  may  be  avoided, 
in  the  which  the  youth  commonlie  fallis,  eathir  by  too  muche^ 
libertie,  whiche  thei  have  in  strange  and  unknawin  placis, 
whill  thei  can  not  rule  them  selfis ;  or  ellis  for  lacke  of  gude 
attendence,  and  of  suche  necessiteis  as  thair  tender  aige  re- 
quireth.  Secoundarlie,  The  exercise  of  the  children  in  everie 
Churche  shall  be  great  instructioun  to  the  aigeit.^ 

Last,  The  great  Schollis  callit  Universiteis,  shallbe  re- 
pleanischit  with  those  that  be  ajjt  to  learnyng  ;  for  this  must 

^  That  is,  the  translation  of  Calvin's  ceived  by  the  Chui'ch  of  Scotland,  the 

Catechism  :  see  subsequent  note.  Geneva  edition  of  15o8  was  reprinted 

*  It  was  so  named  from  having  been  at  Edinburgh  in  1562 ;  and  it  contiaued 

compiled  for  the  use  of  the  English  con-  with  occasional  alterations,  to  be  pre- 

gregation  at  Geneva,  while  Knox  was  fixed  to  most  editions  of  the  old  metrical 

minister    there.     It   bears    this    title :  version  of  the  Psalms,  printed  in  this 

"  The  Forme  of  Prayers  and  Winistra-  country.      The  translation  of  Calvin's 

tion  of  the  Sacraments,  &c.,  used  in  the  Catechism,  first  reprinted  at  Edinburgh 

English  Churche  at  Geneva,"  &c.    From  in  1564,  was  also  usually  adjoined  to 

Knox's  share  in  this  book  of  Common  the  volume. 
Order,  it  will  be  included  in  a  sub-  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "  over  much." 

sequent  volume  of  his  Works.     Having  <  In  edit.  1722,    "to  the   aged  and 

been   subsequently   approved   and  re-  unlearned." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  211 

be  cairfullie  provideit,  that  no  fader,  of  what  estait  or  condi- 
tioun  that  ever  he  he,  use  his  children  at  his  awin  fantasie, 
especialhe  in  thair  youth-hcade ;  but  all  must  be  compelled 
to  bring-  up  thair  children  in  leamyng  and  virtue. 

The  riche  and  potent  may  not  be  permitted  to  suffer  thair 
children  to  spend  thair  youth  in  vane  idilnes,  as  heirtofore  thei 
have  done.  But  thei  must  be  exhorted,  and  by  the  censure  of 
the  Churche  compelled  to  dedicat  thair  sones,  by  goode  exercise,! 
to  the  proffit  of  the  Churche  and  to  the  Common-wealth  ;  and 
that  thei  must  do  of  thair  awin  expensses,  becaus  thei  ar  able. 
The  children  of  the  poore  must  be  supported  and  sustenit  on 
the  charge  of  the  Churche,  till  tryell  be  tackin,  whethir  the 
spirit  of  docilitie  be  fund  in  them  or  not.  Yf  thei  be  fund 
apt  to  letteris  and  learnyng,  then  may  thei  not  (we  meane, 
neathir  the  sonis  of  the  riche,  nor  yit  the  sonis  of  the  poore,) 
be  permittit  to  reject  learnyng- ;  but  must  be  chargeit  to  con- 
tinew  thair  studie,  sa  that  the  Commoun-wealthe  may  have 
some  confort  by  them.  And  for  this  purpose  must  discreit, 
learned,  and  grave  men  be  appointit  to  visit  all  Schollis  for 
the  tiyell  of  thair  exercise,  proffit,  and  continewance ;  to  Avit, 
the  Ministeris  and  Elderis,  with  the  best  learned  in  everie 
toun,  shall  everie  quarter  tak  examinatioun^  how  the  youth 
hath  proffitted. 

A  certane  tyme  must  be  appointed  to  Reiding,  and  to  learn- 
ing of  the  Catechisme  ;  ane  certane  tyme  to  the  Grammar,  and 
to  the  Latine  toung ;  ane  certane  tyme  to  the  Artis,  Philoso- 
phie,  and  to  the  [other]  Toungis  ;  and  a  certane  to  that  studie 
in  which  thei  intend  cheaflie  to  travell  for  the  proffit  of  the 
Commoun- wealth.  Whiche  tyme  being  expired,  we  meane  in 
everie  course,  the  children  must  eatliir  proceid  to  farther 
knawledge,  or  ellis  thei  must  be  send  to  sum  handie-craft,  or  to 

1  la  edit.  1722,  "their  sonnes,  by  Elders,  and  the  rest  of  learned  men  in 
training  them  up  in  good  exercises."  every  town,  shall  in  every  qiiarter  make 

*  In  edit.  1621,    "  the  Minister  and       examination." 


212  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

sum  othir  proffitable  exercise  ;  provideit  alwayis,  that  first  thei 
liave  the  forme  of  knawledge-^  of  Christiane  religioun,  to  wit, 
the  knawledge  of  Goddis  law  and  commandimentis ;  the  use 
and  office  of  the  same  ;  the  cheaf  articulis  of  our  beleve  ;  the 
richt  forme  to  pray  unto  God ;  the  nomber,  use,  and  effect  of 
the  sacramentis  ;  the  trew  knawledge  of  Christ  Jesus,  of  his 
office  and  natures,  and  suche  otheris,^  as  without  the  knaw- 
ledge wheirof,  neathir  deservith  [any]  man  to  be  named  a 
Christiane,^  neather  aught  ony  to  be  admittit  to  the  participa- 
tioun  of  the  Lordis  Tabill :  And  thairfore,  these  principallis 
aught  and  must  be  learned  in  the  youth-heid. 

II.  The  tymes  appointed  to  everie  Course. 
Two  yearis  we  think  more  then  sufficient  to  learne  to  read 
perfitelie,  to  answer  to  the  Catechisme,  and  to  have  some  en- 
tresse  in  the  first  rudimontis  of  Grammar ;  to  the  full  accom- 
plischement  whairof,  (we  meane  of  the  Grammar,)  we  think 
other  thre  or  foure  yearis  at  most,  sufficient.  To  the  Artis,  to 
wit,  Logick  and  Rethorick,  and  to  the  Greik  toung,  foure 
yeiris ;  and  the  rest,  till  the  aige  of  twenty- foure  yearis  to  be 
spent  in  that  studye,  whairin  the  learnar  wald  proffit  the 
Churche  or  Commoun-wealth,  be  it  in  the  Lawis,  or  Physick  or 
Divinitie :  Wliiche  tyme  of  twenty-foure  yearis  being  spent  in 
the  schollis,  the  learnar  most  be  removed  to  serve  the  Churche 
or  Commoun-wealth,  unless  he  be  fund  a  necessarie  Reidare  in 
the  same  Colledge  or  Universitie.  Yf  God  shall  move  your 
heartis  to  establische  and  execut  this  Ordour,  and  put  these 
thingis  in  practise,  your  hole  Realme,  (we  doubt  nott,)  within 
few  yearis,  shall  serve  the  self  of  trew  preacharis,  and  of  uther 
officiaris  necessarie  for  your  Common-wealth. 

'  In  IMS.  1566,   "  have  the  formal-  -  In  edit.  1621,  "  such  other  points." 

knawledge;"  in  edit.  1621,  "  that  they  ^  In  edit.  1621,   "  neither  any  man 

have  further  knawledge."  deserves  to  be  called  a  Christian." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  213 

III.  The  Erectioun  of  Universiteis. 

The  Grammar  Schollis  and  of  the  Toiingis  being  erectit  as 
we  have  said,  nixt  we  think  it  necessarie  thair  be  three  Uni- 
versities in  this  whole  Reahne,  establischeit  in  the  Tounis 
accustumed.i  The  first  in  Sanctandrois,*^  the  secound  in 
Glasgow,^  and  the  thrid  in  Abirdene.^ 

And  in  the  first  Universitie  and  principal!,  whiche  is  Sanct- 
ANDROis,  thair  be  thre  Colledgeis.  And  in  the  first  Colledge, 
quhilk  is  the  entre  of  the  Universitie,  thair  be  four  classes 
or  saigeis :  the  first,  to  the  new  Suppostis,  shalbe  onlie  Dia- 
lectique  ;  the  nixt,  onlie  Mathematique  ;5  the  thrid,  of  Phisick 
onlie  ;  the  fourt  of  Medicine.  And  in  the  secound  Colledge, 
twa  classes  or  seigeis :  the  first,  in^  Morall  Philosophie ;  the 
secound  in  ^  the  Lawis.  And  in  the  thrid  College,  twa  classes 
or  seigeis :  the  first,  in^  the  Toungis,  to  wit,  Greek  and 
Hebreu  ;  the  secound,  in  ^  Divinitie. 

IV.  Ofe  Reidaris,  and  of  the  Greis,  off  Tyme, 

AND  StUDYE.7 

Item,  In  the  first  College,  and  in  the  first  classe,  shallbc 
ane  Reidar  of  Dealectique,^  wha  shall  accomplische  his  course 
thairof  in  one  yeare.  In  the  Mathematique,^  whiche  is  the 
secound  classe,  shalbe  ane  Reidar  who  shall  compleit  his 
course  of  Arithmetique,^  Geometrie,  Cosmographie,  and  Astro- 

»Inedit.  1621,  "intlireeTownes."—  *  In  edit.  1621,   "  Dialecticte,'"  and 

It  will  be  observed  that  this  was  in  "  Mathematicaj." 

1560  ;  and  that  the  University  of  Edin-  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "  of." 

burgh  was  not  founded  till  the  year  '  In  edit.  1621,  "  Of  Readers,  and  of 

1582;  and  Marischall  College  and  Uni-  the  Degi-ees,  and  time  of  Study;"  to 

versity  of  Aberdeen  till  1593.  this  the  edition  1722  adds,    "  and   of 

»  The    University   of  St.   Andrews,  Principals  and  Rector,  and  of  Bursars." 

founded  in  the  year  1411.  *  In  ecUt.  1621,   '^  Dialectica,  Wathc- 

^  The  University  of  Glasgow,  foimded  matica,  Arithmetica."     In  that  edition, 

in  1450.  thi-oughout  this  chai^ter,  most  of  these 

<  The  University  and  King's  College  names  of  the  branches  of  study  are  in 

of  Aberdeen,  founded  in  1494.  like  manner  given  in  a  Latin  form. 


214  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

logie,  in  cane  yeare.  In  the  third  classe,  shalbe  ane  Reidar  of 
Naturall  Philosophie,  who  shall  compleit  his  coiirse  in  a 
yeare.  And  wha  efter  thir  thre  yearis,  by  tryell  and  exami- 
natioun,  shall  be  fund  sufficientlie  instructit  in  thir  aforesaid 
sciences,  shall  be  Laureat  and  Gradiiat  in  Philosophie.  In  the 
fourt  classe,  shall  be  ane  Reidar  of  Medicine,  Avho  shall  com- 
pleit his  course  in  five  years :  after  the  study  of  the  whiche 
tyme,  being  by  examinatioun  fund  sufficient,  thei  shall  be 
graduat  in  Medicine. 

Item,  In  the  Secound  Colledge,  in  the  first  classe,  one 
Reader  onlie  in  the  Ethicques,  CEcouomicques,  and  Politiques, 
who  shall  compleit  his  course  in  the  space  of  one  yeare.  In 
the  secound  classe,  shall  be  tuo  Reidaris  in  the  Municipall  and 
Romane  Lawis,  who  sail  compleit  thair  coursses  in  four  yeares ; 
after  the  whiche  tyme,  being  by  examinatioun  fund  sufficient, 
thei  shalbe  graduat  in  the  Lawis. 

Item,  In  the  third  Colledge,  in  the  first  classe,  ane  Reidar 
of  the  Hebreu,  and  ane  uther  of  the  Greek  toung,  wha  sail 
compleit  the  grammeris  thairof  in  half  ane  yeare,  l  and  the 
remanent  of  the  yeare,  the  Reidar  of  the  Hebreu  shall  inter- 
preit  ane  booke  of  Moses,  the  2  Propheitis,  or  the  Psalmes ;  sa 
that  his  course  and  classe  shall  continew  ane  yeare.  The  Rei- 
dar of  the  Greek  shall  interpreit  some  booke  of  Plato,  to- 
gidder  with  some  place  of  the  New  Testament.  And  in  the 
secound  classe,  shalbe  tuo  Reideris  in  Divinitie,  that  ane  in 
the  New  Testament,  that  uthir  in  the  Auld,  who  saU  compleit 
thair  course  in  five  yearis.  After  whiche  tyme,  who  sail  be 
fund  by  examinatioun  sufficient  shall  be  graduat  in  Divinitie. 

Item,  We  think  expedient  that  nane  be  admittit  unto  the 
first  Colledge,  and  to  be  Suppostis  of  the  Universitie,  onles  he 
have  frome  the  Maister  of  the  Scheie,  and  the  Minister  of  the 
toun  whair  he  was  instructed  in  the  toungis,  ane  testimoniall 
of  his  learnyng,  docilitie,  aige,  and  parentage ;  and  likewayis 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  in  three  monetlis."  -  In  edit.  1722,  '•  or  of  the." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  215 

triall  to  be  tanei  be  certan  Exaniinatouris,  deput  be  the  Rec- 
toiir  and  Principallis  of  the  same,  and  yf  he  be  fund  sufficient- 
lie  instructit  in  Dialectick,^  he  shall  incontinent,  that  same 
yeare,  be  promoted  to  the  classe  of  Mathematicque. 

Item,  That  nane  be  admittit  to  the  classe  of  the  Medicine 
bot  he  that  shall  have  his  testimoniall  of  his  tyme  weall  spent 
in  Dialecticque,  Mathematique,  and  Phisicque,  and  of  his  do- 
cilitie  in  the  last. 

Item,  That  nane  be  admittit  unto  the  classe  of  the  Lawis, 
but  he  that  shall  have  sufficient  testimoniallis  of  his  tyme 
Weill  spent  in  Dialecticque,  Mathematique,  Phisique,  Ethick, 
(Economiques,  and  Pollitiques,  and  of  his  docilitie  in  the  last. 

Item,  That  nane  be  admittit  unto  the  classe  and  seige  of 
Divines  ^  bot  he  that  shall  have  sufficient  testimonialles  of  his 
tyme  weill  spent  in  Dialecticque,  Mathematicque,  Phisique, 
Ethique,  (Economique,  Morall  Philosophie,*  and  the  Hebreu 
toung',  and  of  his  docilitie  in  the  Morall  Philosophie  and  the 
Hebreu  toung.  But  neathir  shall  suche  as  will  applye  them 
to  hear  the  LaAvis,  be  compelled  to  heir  Medicine ;  neathir 
suche  as  applye  them  to  hear  Divinitie  be  compellit  to  hear 
eathir  Medicine  or  yit  the  Lawis. 

Item,  In  the  Secound  Universitie,  whiche  is  Glasgu,  shal- ''^^"^^ '^ 

'  '  '  VERSITIE 

be  twa  Colledgeis  alanerlie.  In  the  first  shalbe  ane  classe 
of  Dialecticque,  ane  uther  in  Mathematicque,  the  thrid  in 
Phisique,  ordourit  in  all  sortis  as  Sanctandrois. 

Item,  In  the  Secound  CoUedge,  four  classes ;  tlie  first  in 
Morall  Philosophie,  Ethiques,  (Economiques,  and  Pollitiques ; 
the  secound  of  the  Municipale  and  Romano  Lawis ;  the  thrid 
of  the  Hebreu  toung  ;  the  fourt  in  Divinitie  :  Which  shall  be 
ordourit  in  all  sortis,  conforme  to  it  we  have  writtin  in  the 
ordour  of  the  Universitie  of  Sanctandrois.^ 

>  In  edit.  1621,  «  triall  be  taken."  1 1n  edit.  1621,  "  and  Politica." 

2  In  edit.  1621,  "  in  the  Dialectica."  s  The  Editor  in  1722,  says,  "  There  is 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  Seage  of  Divinity.""       here  no  mention  made  of  Medicine  or 


216  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

The  Tlirid  Universitie  of  Abirdene  sliall  be  confonne  to 
this  Universitie  of  Glasgou,  in  all  sortis. 

Item,  We  think  neidfull,  that  thair  be  chosin  of  the  body 
of  the  Universitie  to  everie  Colledge  a  man  ^  of  learnyng,  dis- 
cretioun,  and  diligence,  who  shall  resave  the  haill  rentis  of 
the  Colledge,  and  distribute  the  same  according  to  the  erec- 
tioun  of  the  Colledge,  and  shall  dalie  hearkin  the  dyet 
comptis ;  adjoynyng  to  him  oulklie  ane  of  the  Readeris  or 
Regentis,  above  whome  he  shall  [take]  attendence  upoun 
thair  diligence,  alsweill  in  thair  reading,  as  exercitioun'''  of  the 
3^outh  in  the  mater  taught ;  upoun  the  polecye  and  uphold  of  the 
place  ;  and  for  punischement  of  crymes,  shall  bald  ane  oulklie  8 
conventioun  with  the  haill  memberis  of  the  Colledge.  He 
shall  be  comptabile  yearlie  to  the  Superintendent,  Rectour, 
and  rest  of  the  Principallis  convened,  about  the  first  of  No- 
vember. His  electioun  slialbe  in  this  sort :  Thair  shalbe  thre 
of  the  maist  sufficient  men  of  the  Universitie,  (not  Principallis 
alreaddie,)  nominat  by  the  memberis  of  the  College,  sworne  to 
follow  thair  conscience,  whais  Principall  is  departed,  and 
publictlie  proponed  throu  the  Avhole  Universitie.  Efter  the 
whiche  tyme  eght  dayis,  the  Superintendent,  by  him  self  or 
his  speciall  Procuratour,  Avith  the  Rectour  and  rest  of  the 
Principallis,  as  ane  chuptour  convened,  shall  conferme  ane  of 
the  three  thei  think  maist  sufficient,  being  afore  sworne  to 
do  the  same  with  singill  ee,^  but  respect  to  feid  or  favour. 

Item,  In  everie  Colledge,  we  think  neidfull  at  the  least  ane 
Steward,  ane  Cooke,  ane  Gardnar,  ane  Portar,  wha  shall  be 
subject  to  discipline  of  the  Principale,  as  the  rest. 

Itevt,  That  everie  Universitie  have  ane  Beddale  subject  to 

Greek ;  but  it  is  probable  that  a  Profes-  iii  the  edit.  1722,   "a  Princii)all,  who 

sor  of  Greek   was   designed  both  for  must  be  a  man  of  learnmg." 
Glasgow  and  Aberdeen  for  the  reason  '  In  edit.  1621,  "  as  exercising." 

given   in  the   remark  on  25  §  of  this  ^  la  edit.  1621,  "hold  a  weekly." 

chapter  :"   (Note  2,  page  219.)  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "  with  a  single  ej'e." 

•  In  edit.  1621,   "  a  principal  man  :" 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  217 

serve  at  all  tymes  throucliout  the  whole  Universitie,  as  the 
Rectour  and  Principallis  shall  command. 

Item,  That  everie  Universitie  have  ane  Rectour  chosin  from 
yeare  to  yeare  as  shall  follow.  The  Princii)allis  being  con- 
vened with  the  haill  Regentis  chaptourlie,  shall  be  sworne,  that 
everie  man  in  his  roume  shall  nominat  suche  one  as  his  con- 
science shall  testifie  to  be  maist  sufficient  to  beare  suche 
charge  and  dignitie ;  and  thre  of  them  that  shalbe  oftest  no- 
minat shalbe  put  in  edict  publictlie,  fiftene  dayis  afore  Michael- 
mess  ;  and  then  shall  on  ]\Iichaelmess  Evin  convene  the  hoill 
Principallis,  Regentis,  and  Suppostis  that  ar  graduat,  or  at  the 
least  studyit  thair  tyme  in  Ethiques,  (Economiques,  and  Pol- 
litiques,  and  na  utlieris  youngare  ;  and  everie  natioun,  first 
protestand  in^  Goddis  presence  to  follow  the  sinceir  dite- 
ment  of  thair  consciences,  shall  nominat  ane  of  the  said  thre; 
and  he  that  lies  monyest  votis  shall  be  confermit  be  the  Superin^ 
tendent  and  Principall,  and  his  dewitie  with  ane  cxhortatioun 
proponed  unto  him  :  And  this  to  be  the  28  day  of  September ; 
and  thairefter  aithis  to  be  takin,2  hinc  inde,  off  his  just  and 
godlie  governement,  and  of  the  remanentis  lauchfull  submis- 
sioun  and  obedience.  He  shall  be  propyned^  to  the  Univer- 
sitie at  his  entre,  with  ane  new  garment,  bearing  Insignia 
Magistratus ;  and  be  halden  monethlie  to  visie  everie  Col- 
ledge,'^  and  with  his  presence  decore  and  examyn  the  lectionis 
and  exercitioun  thairof.  His  assessoris  shalbe  ane  laweir  and 
ane  theolog,  with  whois  ad^^se  he  shall  decide  all  questionis 
civill,  betwix  the  memberis  of  the  Universitie.  Yf  ony  with- 
out the  Universitie  persew  ane  member  thairof,  or  be  persewit 
be  ane  member  of  the  samin,  he  shall  assist  the  Provest  and 
Baillies  in  thei  casses,  or  uthir  judgeis  competent,  to  see  justice 
be  ministred.     In  likewise,  yf  ony  of  the  Universitie  be  crimi- 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "and  everie  one  having  <  The  Editor  in  1722,  says,   "Some 

first  protested."  copies  have  Ins'ujma  Magistratus  being 

*  In  edit.  1621,  "  tryall  to  be  t.iken."  born  before  liini,  he  shall  visite  every 

3  In  M8.  1566,  "  proposed."  Colledge  moncthly,"  &c. 


SUM  MA  OF 
BURSARIS 
IN  THE 
THRE  UNI- 
VERSITEIS. 


218  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

nallie  persevvit,  he  sliall  assist  tlie  Judgeis  comjDetent,  and  se 
that  justice  be  ministred. 

Item,  We  think  it  expedient,  that  in  everie  Colledge  in 
everieUniversitie,thair  he  twenty-four  hursaris,!  divided  equalie 
in  all  the  classes  and  seigeis,  as  is  above  exprimit :  that  is, 
in  Sanctandrois,  seventie-tua  bursaris ;  in  Glasgou,  fourtye-eyght 
bursaris ;  in  Abirdene,  fourty-eyght ;  to  be  sustened  onlie  in 
meit  upon  the  chargeis  of  the  Colledge  ;  and  be  admitted  at 
the  examinatioun  of  the  Ministerie  and  chaptour  of  Principallis 
in  the  Universitie,  alsweill  in  docilitie  of  the  personis  offerit, 
as  of  the  habillitie  of  thair  parentis  to  sustene  thame  thair 
selvis,  and  nocht  to  burding  the  Common-wealth  with  thame. 

V.  Off  Stipendis  and  Expensses  necessarie. 

Item,  "We  think  expedient,  that  the  Universiteis  be  doted 
with  temporall  landis,  with  rentis  and  revenewis  of  the 
Bischopriks  temporalitie,  and  of  the  Kirkis  CoUegiat,  sa  far  as 
thair  ordinarie  chargeis  shall  require ;  and  thairfore,  that  it 
wald  please  your  Honouris,  be  advise  of  your  Honouris  Coun- 
sall  and  voit  of  Parliament,  to  do  the  samin.  And  to  the 
effect  the  same  may  be  schortlie  expediat,  we  have  recollected 
the  soumes  we  think  necessarie  for  the  samin. 

Imprimis,  For  the  ordinarie  Stipend  of  the  Dialecticiane 
Reidar,  the  Mathematiciane,  Phisitiane,  and  Morall  Philo- 
sophic, we  think  sufficient  ane  hundrcth  pundis  for  everie  ane 
of  thame. 

Item,  For  the  Stipend  of  everie  Reader  in  Medicine  and 
Lawis,  ane  hundreth  threttie  thre  pundis,  vi  s.  viij  d. 

Item,  To  everie  Reidar  in  Hebrew,  Greik,  and  Divinitie,  twa 
hundreth  jmndis. 

Item,  To  everie  Principall  of  a  Colledge,  ij   lb. 

Item,  To  everie  Stewart,  sextene  pundis  of  fie. 

'  In  reckoning  the  number  of  Bursa-  three  Colleges  ;  and  Glasgow  and  Aber- 
vies,  it  was  proposed  that  the  Univer-  deen  of  two  each;  thus  making  72  for 
sity  of  St.  Andrews  should  consist  of      theformcr,  and  48  for  each  of  the  latter. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  219 

Item,  To  everie  Gardnar,  to  everie  Cuke,  and  Portar,  ilkane, 
ten  markis. 

Item,  To  tlie  Burde  of  everie  Bursar,  without  the  Classes  of 

Theologie  and  Medicine,^  .  .  .         twenty  pundis. 

Item,  [To  every  Bursar]  in  the  Classe  of  Theologie,  wliiche 

will  be  onlie  twelf  personis  in  Sanctandrois,     .  .      24  lib. 

Summa  of  yeirlie  and  ordinarie  expensses  in 

the  Universitie  of  Sanctandrois,  extendis  to     3796  lib. 
Summa   of  yearlie  and  ordinarie  expensis  of 

Grlasgow,2 2922  lib. 

Abirdene,  alsmekill,  .  .  .  .2922  lib. 


Summa  of  the  Ordinarie  Chargis  of  the  lioill,       9640  lib. 

Item,  the  Beddellis  Stipend  shalbe  of  everie  entrant  and 
suppost  of  the  Universitie,  ii.  schillingis ;  off  everie  ane  graduat 
in  Philosophie,  thre  schillingis ;  oif  everie  ane  graduat  in  Me- 
dicine or  Lawis,  4  schillingis  ;  in  Theologie,  5  schillingis  ;  all 
Bursis  being  exceptit. 

Item,  We  have  thocht  gude  for  building  and  uphald  of  the 
placis,  ane  general  collect  be  maid  ;  and  that  everie  Erlis  sone, 
at  his  entre  to  the  Universitie,  shall  gif  fourtye  schillingis,  and 
sicklike  at  everie  graduatioun,  40  schillingis.  Item,  Everie 
Lordis  sone  sicklike  at  ilk  tyme,  80  schillingis ;  ilk  fre  balding 
Baronis  sone,  twentye  schillingis :  everie  Fewar  and  substan- 
tious  Gentilmannis  sone,  ane  mark.  Item,  Everie  substantious 
Husband  and  Burges  sone,  at  ilk  tyme,  ten  schillingis  :  Item, 
Everie  ane  of  the  rest,  (excepting  3  the  Bursaris,)  5  schillingis 
at  ilk  tyme. 

And  that  this  be  gathered  in  ane  commoun  box,  put  in 
keiping  to  the  Principall  of  the  Theologeanes,  everie  Principall 

^  In  edit.  1621,  the  -words,  "  and  Me-  signed    that    these     two    Universities 

dicine"  are  omitted.  should  have  had  each  of  them  a  Pi-ofes- 

*  The  Editor  in  1722,  remarks,  "  The  sor  of  Greek,  whose  salary  was  to  have 

ordiuai-y  expenses  of  Glasgow  or  Aber-  been  200  Pounds." 

deen  extend  only  to  2722  Pounds  and  ^In  edit.  1621,  "  not  excepting."' 
one  Merk,  so  that  probably  it  was  de- 


220  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

liavand  ane  key  thairof,  to  be  coniptit  ilk  yeare  anis,  with 
the  relictis  of  the  Principallis  to  be  laved  into  the  samin,  about 
the  fivetene  dav  of  November,  in  presence  of  the  Superinten- 
dent, Rectour,  and  the  hoill  Principallis ;  and,  at  thair  hoill 
consent,  or  at  the  least  the  most  part  thairof,  reservit  and 
employit  onlie  upoun  the  building  and  uphalding  of  the  placis, 
and  repairing  of  the  same,  as  ever  necessitie  shall  require. 
And  thairfore,  the  Rectour  Avith  his  assistance  shall  be  haldin 
to  visite  the  placis  ilk  yeir  anis,  incontinent  efter  he  be  pro- 
moted, upoun  the  last  of  October,  or  thairby. 

VI.  Off  the  Privilege  of  the  Universitie. 

Seing  we  desire  that  Innocencie  shall  defend  us  rather  than 
Privelege,  we  think  that  ilk  persoun  of  the  Universitie  shuld 
answeir  before  the  Provest  and  Baillies  of  ilk  town  whaire  the 
Universities  ar,  of  all  crymes  whairof  thai  ar  accusit,  onlie 
that  the  Rectour  be  Assesour  to  thame  in  the  saidis  actionis. 
In  civill  materis  yf  the  questioun  be  betwix  memberis  of  the 
Universitie  on  ilk  side,  making  thair  residence  and  exercitioun 
thairin  for  the  tyme,  in  that  case  the  partie  callit  shall  not 
be  haldin  to  answer,  but  onlie  before  the  Rectour  and  his 
Assesouris  heirtofore  expremit.  In  all  uthir  casses  of  civill 
persute,  the  general!  reule  of  the  Law  to  be  observit.  Actor 
sequatur  forum,  rei,  d^c. 

Item,  That  the  Rectour  and  all  inferiour  memberis  of  the 
Universitie  be  exempted  frome  all  taxationis,  impostis,  chargeis 
of  weir,  or  ony  othir  charge  that  may  onerat  or  abstract  him 
or  thame  from  the  cair  of  thair  office ;  suche  as  Tutorie,  Cura- 
torie,  Deaconrie,  or  ony  siclike,  that  ar  establischeit,  or  heir- 
efter  shall  be  established  in  our  Common- wealth  ;  to  the  effect, 
that  but  trubill,  that  ane  may  wait  upoun  the  upbringing  of 
the  youth  in  learnyng,  that  othir  bestow  his  tyme  onlie  in  that 
most  necessarie  excrcitioune. 

All  othir  thingis  tuiching  the  bookes  to  be  red  in  ilk 
classo,  and  all  suclic  particular  effaires,  we  refer  to  the  dis- 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  221 

cretioun  of  the  Maisteris,  PrincipalHs,  and  Regentis,  with  thair 
Weill  advisit  Counsallis  ;  not  doubting  but  yf  God  sail  grant 
quietnes,  and  gif  your  Wisdomes  grace  to  set  fordward  letteris 
in  the  sort  prescribed,  ye  shall  leave  wisdome  and  learnyng  to 
your  posteritie,  ane  treasure  more  to  be  estemed  nor  ony 
earthlie  treasure  ye  ar  abill  to  provide  l  for  thanie  ;  whiche, 
without  wisdome,  ar  more  abill  to  be  thair  ruyne  and  con- 
fusioun,  than  help  or  con  fort.  And  as  this  is  most  treu,  so  we 
leave  it  with  the  rest  of  the  commoditcis  to  be  weyit  by  your 
Honouris  wisdome,  and  set  fordwart  by  your  authoritie  to  the 
most  heigh  advancement  of  this  Common-Avealth,  committed  to 
your  charge. 


The  Sext  Heid,  of  the  Rentis  and  Patrimony  of 

THE  KlRK.'^ 

These  twa  sortis  of  men,  that  is  to  say,  the  Ministers'^  and 
the  Pure,  togidder  with  the  Schollis,  when  ordour  sail  be  takin 
thairanent,  must  be  sustened  upoun  the  chargeis  of  the 
Churche :  And  thairfore  provisioun  must  be  maid,  how  and  of 
whome  suclie  soumes  must  be  lifted.  But  befoir  we  enter  in 
this  heid,  Ave  must  crave  of  your  Honouris,  in  the  name  of  the 
Eternall  God  and  of  his  Sone  Christ  Jesus,  that  ye  have 
respect  to  your  pure  brethren,  the  lauboraris  and  manuraris  of 
the  ground ;  who  by  these  creuell  beastis  the  Papistis  have 
bene  so  oppressit,*  that  thair  life  to  tliame  have  bene  dolorus 
and  bitter.  Yf  ye  will  have  God  author  and  approver  of  youre 
reformatioun,  ye  must  nott  follow  thair  futesteppis ;  but  ye 
must  have  compassioun  upoun  your  brethren,  appointing  thame 
to  pay  so  reasonabill  teyndis,  that  thei  may  feill^  sum  benefit 
of  Christ  Jesus,  now  precheit  unto  thame. 

With  the  greaf  of  our  hertis  we  heare,  that  sum  Gentilmen 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  amasse."  *  In  edit.   1621,   "  liavo  before  been 

-  In  edit.  1722,  Chap,  VIII.  opprest." 

*  In  edit.   1722,    "ministers  of  the  *  In  edit.  1621.  "  may  find." 

Word." 


222  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

are  now  als  creuell  over  tliair  tennentis  as  ever  war  tlie 
Papistis,  requiring  of  tliame  whatsoever  before  tliay  payit  to 
the  Churche  ;^  so  that  the  Papisticale  tirrannye  shall  onlie  be 
ehangeit  in  the  tirrannye  of  the  lord  or  of  the  laird.  We  dar 
not  flatter  your  Honouris,  neathir  yit  is  it  proffitabill  for  you 
that  so  we  do  :  if  you  permit  suche  creualtie^  to  be  used, 
neather  shall  ye,  who  by  your  authoritie  audit  to  ganestand 
suche  oppressioun,  neathir  thei  that  use  the  same,  escheip 
Goddis  lievy  and  feirfull  judgementis.  The  Gentilmen,  Baronis, 
Earlis,  Lordis,  and  utheris,  must  be  content  to  live  upon  thair 
just  rentis,  and  suffer  the  Churche  to  be  restorit  to  hir  libertie, 
that,  in  hir  restitutioun,  the  poore,  who  heirtofore  by  the 
creuall  Papistis  have  bene  spoilled  and  oppressit,  may  now 
resave  sum  confort  and  relaxatioun. 

*  CoNCLUDiT  BE  THE  LoRDis  :^  That  thir  teyndis  and  uthairis 
exactionis,  to  be  clene  discharged,  and  never  to  be  tackin  in 
tyme  cuming ;  as,  the  uppermost  Claith,  the  Corps-present, 
the  Clerk-maill,  the  Pasche  offeringis,  Teynd  Aill,  and  all 
handlingis  Upaland,  can  neathir  be  required  nor  resavit  of 
godlie  conscience. 

Neathir  do  we  judge  it  to  proceade  frome  justice,  that  one 
man  sail  possess  the  teyndis  of  ane  utlier ;  but  we  think  it 
ane  thing  most  reasonabill,  that  everie  man  have  the  use  of 
his  awin  teyndis,  provideit  that  he  ansueir  to  the  Deaconis 
and  Thesauraris  of  the  Churche,  off  that  whiche  justlie  sail  be 
appointit  unto  him.  We  require  Deaconis  and  Thesauraris 
rathir  to  resave  the  rentis,  nor  the  Ministeris  them  selvis  ;  be- 
caus  that  of  the  teyndis  must  not  onlie  the  Ministeris  be  sus- 
tened,  but  also  the  Poore  and  Schollis.  And  thairfore  we  think 
'  it  most  expedient  that  commoun  Thesauraris,  to  wit,  the  Dea- 
DEAC0NIS.4   conis,  be  appointed  frome  yeare  to  yeare,  to  resave  the  hoill 

>  In  edit.  1621,  "  whatsoever  they  ^  These  words,  "  Concludit  be  the 

afore  payed  to  the  Kii-k."  Lordis,"  are  omitted  in  the  later  copies. 

^  In   edit.    1621,    "  if   we    permit  *  This  addition  is  omitted  in  the  later 

cruelty."  copies. 


THE  LORDIS 
AGGREIS 
WITH  THIS 
HKID  OF  THI 
RESAVING 
OF  THE 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  223 

rentis  appertenyng  to  the  Cliurclie ;  and  that  commandiment 
be  given,  that  na  man  be  permitted  eather  to  resave,  eather 
yit  to  inti'omet  with,  any  thing  appertenjaig  to  the  siistenta- 
tioun  of  the  personis  foresaidis,  but  suche  as  by  commoun 
consent  of  the  Churche  ar  thairto  appointed. 

Yf  any  thinkis  this  prejudicial!  to  the  tackis  and  asseda- 
tionis  of  those  that  now  possessis  the  teyndis,  let  them  under- 
stand that  ane  injust  possessioun  is  no  possessioun  before  God  ; 
for  those  of  whome  thei  receaved  thair  titill  and  presupposed 
richt,  war  and  ar  thevisl  and  murtheraris,  and  had  no  power 
so  to  alienat  the  patrimonye  and  commoun-gude  of  the 
Churche.  And  yit  we  ar  not  so  extreme,  but  that  we  wische 
just  recompence  to  be  maid  to  suche  as  have  debursed  soumes 
of  money  to  those  injust  possessouris  (so  that  it  hes  not  bene 
of  lait  dayis  in  prejudice  of  the  Churche :)  but  suche  as  ar 
fund  and  knawin  to  be  done  of  plane  collusioun  in  no  wise 
aucht  to  be  mantened  of  you.  And  for  that  purpose,  we 
think  it  most  expedient  that  whosoever  have  assedatioun  of 
teyndis  or  churches  be  openlie  warnit  to  produce  thair  asse- 
datioun and  assurance,  that  cognitioun  being  tackin,  the  just 
tackisman  may  have  ane  just  and  reasonable  recompence  for 
the  yearis  that  ar  to  ryn,  the  proffit  of  the  yearis  passed  being 
considderit  and  deducted ;  and  the  injust  and  surmised  may 
be  servit  accordinglie :  So  that  the  Churche,  in  the  end,  may 
recover  hir  libertie  and  fredome,  and  that  onlie  for  releaf  of 
the  Poore. 

Your  Honouris  may  easilie  understand,  that  we  speake  not 
now  for  our  selvis,  but  in  favouris  of  the  Poore  and  2  the  law- 
boraris  defraudit  and  oppressed  by  the  Preastis,  and  by  thair 
confederat  pensionaris.  For  quhill  that  the  Preistis  Pension- 
are  his  idill  bellye  is  delicatlie  fed,  the  Poore,  to  whome  a 
portioun  of  that   appertenis,  was  pyned   with  hunger ;    and 

1  lu  edit.  1621,   "  presupposed  riglit  -  In  the  edit.   1621,  the  words  "  the 

or  warrant,  were  thevis."  poore  and,"  are  omitted. 


224  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

moirover  the  trew  laboraris  was  compelled  to  pay  that  whiche 
[he]  aught  not :  for  the  lauborar  is  nouthir  dettar  to  the  dum 
dog  called  the  Bischop,  neathir  yit  unto  his  hyred  pensionare  ; 
but  is  debtour  onlie  unto  the  Churche :  And  the  Churche  is 
onlie  bund  to  sustene  and  nourische  off  her  chargeis,  the  per- 
sonis  before  mentionat,  to  Avit,  the  Ministeris  of  the  word,  the 
Poore,  and  the  Teacharis  of  the  youth. 

But  now  to  returne  to  the  formare  Heade.  The  soumes 
abill  to  susteane  thir  forenamit  j)ersonis,  and  to  furnische  all 
thingis  appertenyng  to  the  preservatioun  of  gude  ordour  and 
polecie  within  the  Churche,  must  be  lifted  of  the  teyndis,!  to 
wit,  the  teynd  cheaf,  teynd  hay,  teynd  hempt,  teynd  lint,  teynd 
fischeis,  teynd  calf,  teynd  fole,  tejnd  lambe,  teynd  woll,  teynd 
cheise,  &c.  And  becaus  that  we  knaw  that  the  tythes  reason - 
abillie  tackin,  as  is  before  expressed,  will  not  suffice  to  dis- 
charge the  formar  necessitie ;  we  think  that  all  thingis  doted 
to  Hospitalitie,  all  annualrentis,  both  in  burgh  and  land,  per- 
teanyng  to  Preastis,  Chanterie,  Colledgcis,  Chaplaniyis,  and 
to  Freiris  of  all  Ordouris,  to  the  Sisteris  of  the  Seanis,2  and  to 
all  utheris  of  that  Ordour,  and  suche  utheris  within  this 
Realme,  be  receaved  still  to  the  use  of  the  Churche  or 
Churches  within  the  tounis  or  parrischeis  whaire  thai  war 
doted.  Furthermore  to  the  uphald[ing]  of  the  Universiteis, 
and  sustentatioun  of  the  Superintendentis,  the  hoill  revenew 

^  In  the  edit.  1621,  "  oif  the  tenth.s  :  .soon  after  his  assuming  the  government, 

to  wit,  the  tenth  sheafe,  hay,  hemp,  lint,  granted  to  the  "  Sisters  of  the  Senys," 

fi.shes,    tenth   calfe,   tenth  lamb,  tentli  an  annual  pension  of  £24  ;  and  fi-om  the 

wooll,  tenth  folle,  tenth  cheese."  Treasurer'.s  Accounts,  it  appears  that 

*  The  Sisters  of  the  Sheens,  Senys,  this  sum  was  continued  until  1558,  to  be 

or  Sciennes,  were  Nuns  of  the  Predi-  paid  bytheQueenRegent,Mary  of  Guise, 

cant  Order  of  St.  Dominick.     Their  Con-  A  volume  printed  for  the  Abbotsford 

vent,  consecrated  to  St.  Katherine  of  Club,  in  1841,  entitled  "  Liber  Conven- 

Sienna,    an  erection  of  so  late  a  date  tus  S.  Katherine  Senensis  prope  Edin- 

as    1517,    was    situated    a   short   di.s-  burgiim,"  includes  the  "  Constitutiones 

tance  to  the  south  of  Edinburgh.     Tlie  Sororum,"  &c.,  along  with  the  several 

name  of  the  Scienne.s,  still  designates  Charters  that  could  be  recovered  relat- 

the  locality.      King  James   the   Fifth.  ing  to  this  Convent. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  225 

of  the  temporalitie  of  the  Bischopis,  Deancs,  and  Archdeanes 
landis,  and  all  rcntis  of  landis  pcrtenyng  to  the  Cathedrall 
Clmrcheis  whatsoever.  And  farther,  merchandis  and  riche 
craftismen  in  fre  Burghis,  who  have  no  thing  to  do  with  the 
manuring  of  the  ground,  must  mak  sum  provisioun  in  thair 
citeis,  tounis,  or  dwelling  placis,  for  to  support  the  neid  of  the  ^y^^^^g^'jg 
Churche. 

To  the  Ministeris,  and  failzeing  thairof  the  Reideris,  must 
be  restorit  thair  manses  and  thair  gleibis ;  for  ellis  tliei  can 
not  serve  thair  flock  at  all  tymes  as  thair  dewtie  is.  Yf  any 
gleibe  exceid  sex  aikeris  of  land,  the  rest  to  remane  in  the 
possessouris  handis,  quhill  ordour  be  tackin  thairin. 

The  Lordis  condiscendis  that  the  Manse  and  Yairdis  be  iaddiiioj 
restorit  to  the  ministeris :  and  all  the  lordis  consentis 
that   the   ministeris  have   sex   aikeris  of  landis,  except 
Merscheall,    Mortoun,  Glencarne,    AND   Cassillis,    QUHAIR 

MaNSSES  AR  of  GRET  QUANTITIE.l 

The  receaveris  and  collectouris  of  these  rentis  and  dewiteis 
must  be  the  Deaconis  or  Thesauraris  appointit  from  yeare  to 
yeare  in  everie  churche,  and  that  by  common  consent  and  fre 
electioun  of  the  churche.  The  Deaconis  may  distribute  no 
part  of  that  whiche  is  collected,  but  by  commandiment  of  the 
Ministeris  and  Elderis ;  and  thei  may  command  no  thing  to 
be  deliverit,  but  as  the  Churche  before  hath  determined :  to 
wit,  the  Deaconis  shall  of  the  first  pay  the  soumes,  either  quar- 
terlie,  or  frome  half  yearo  to  half  yeare,  to  the  Ministeris 
whiche  the  Kirk  hath  appointed.  The  same  thei  shall  do  to 
the  Schoolmaisteris,  Readeris,  and  Hospitalis,  (gif  any  be,)  al- 
wayis  receaving  acquettances  for  thair  discharge. 

Yfany  extraordinar  soumes  lie  to  be  delivered,  then  must 
the  Ministeris,  Elderis,  and  Deaconis  consult  whethir  the  deli- 

1  Tliis  paragraph   is   added   on  the  of  the   discussion   that  took  place  on 

margin  of  the  MS.  1566,  and  is  omitted  some  of  the  Heads  in  the  Book  of  Dis- 

in  all  the  editions.    It  affords  a  proof  cipline. 

VOL.  II.  P 


226  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

verance  of  tliei  sonnies  doetli  stand  Avitli  tlie  common  utilitie  of 
the  Clmrclie  or  not ;  and  yf  tlici  do  nniversalie  aggree  and  con- 
descend eatliir  npoun  the  affirmative  or  the  negative,  then  he- 
cans  thei  ar  in  credit  and  office  for  the  yeare,  thei  may  do 
as  best  seameth  unto  thame :  But  yf  thair  be  contraversie 
amangis  thame  selfis,  the  whole  Churche  must  be  made  privie  ; 
and  efter  that  the  mater  be  exponed,  and  the  reasonis  hearde ; 
the  judgement  of  the  Churclie  with  the  Ministeris  consent 
shall  prevaill. 

The  Deaconis  shall  be  bund  and  compelled  to  mak  ac- 
comj^tis  to  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis  of  that  Avhich  thei  have 
receaved,  als  oft  as  the  Polecie  shall  appoint ;  and  the  Elderis 
whan  thei  ar  changeit,  (which  must  be  everie  yeare,)  must 
clear  thair  comptis  before  suche  auditouris  as  the  Churche 
shall  appoint :  And  both  the  Deaconis  and  Elderis  being 
changeit,  shall  deliver  to  thame  that  shalbe  now  elected,  all 
soumes  of  money,  cornis,  and  other  profits  resting  in  thair 
handis  ;  the  tickettis  whairof  must  be  delivered  to  the  Superin- 
tendentis  in  thair  visitatioun,  and  by  thame  to  the  gret  Coun- 
sall  of  the  Churche,  that  alsweill  the  aboundance  as  the  in- 
digence of  everie  churche  may  be  evidentlie  knawin,  that  a 
reasonable  equalitie  may  be  had  throuchout  the  hoill  Realme. 
Yf  this  ordour  be  preciselie  keipit,^  corruptioun  can  not 
suddanlie  enter.  For  the  frie  and  yearlie  electioun  of  Dea- 
conis and  Elderis  shall  suffer  none  to  usurpe  a  perpetuall  do- 
minioun^  over  the  Churche  ;  the  knawledge  of  the  rentall 
shall  suffice^  thame  to  receave  no  more  then  whairof  thei 
.shall  be  bund  to  mak  accomptis  ;  the  deliverance  of  the  money 
to  the  new  ofHciaris  shall  not  suffer  privat  men  [to]  use  in 
thair  private  besynes,  that  whiche  aj^perteyneth  to  the  publict 
effaires  of  the  Churche. 

1  In  edit.  1021,  "  be  perfectly  kept."  •''  In  edit.  1G21,  "  shall  suffer." 

2  In  edit.  1021,  "  domination." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  227 

The  Sevint  Heid,  of  Ecclesiasticall  Discipline.^ 
As  that  no  Commoiin-wealtli  can  flnrische  or  long-  indure 
without  gucle  hiwis,  and  scharp  exccutioun  of  the  same ;  so 
neathir  can  the  Churche  of  God  be  Lrocht  to  puritie,  neathir 
yit  be  retained  in  the  same,  without  the  ordour  of  Ecclesiasti- 
call Discipline,  wliiche  standis  in  reproving  and  correcting  off 
these  faltis,  which  the  civill  sweard  doeth  eather  neglect,  eather 
may  not  punische :  Blasphemye,  adulterie,  murthour,  perjurie, 
and  uthir  crymes  capitall,  worthie  of  death,  audit  not  proper- 
lie  to  fall  under  censure  of  the  Churche ;  bccaus  all  suche 
oppin  transgressouris  of  Goddis  lawis  audit  to  be  tackin  away 
be  the  civill  swearde.  But  drunkynnes,  excesse,  (be  it  in  ap- 
parell,  or  be  it  in  eating  and  drinking,)  fornicatioun,  oppres- 
sioun  of  the  poore  by  exactionis,  deceaving  of  tliame  in  buying 
or  selling  be  wrang  met  or  measure,  wantoun  wordis  and 
licentious  leving  tending  to  sklander,  do  propirlie  appertene 
to  the  Churche  of  God,  to  punische  the  same  as  Goddis  word 
commandeth. 

But  becaus  this  accursit  Papistrie  hath  broclit  in  suche 
confusioun  in  the  warld,  that  neather  was  virtu  richtlie  pray- 
sit,  neathir  vice  seveirlie  punisched ;  the  Churche  of  God 
is  compelled  to  draw  the  swearde  whiche  of  God  scho  have 
receaved,  agcxnis  suche  oppin  and  manifest  otfendaris,^  cursing  consentkd 

'        O  11  '  to   ON  BK  THE 

and  excommunicating  all  suche,  alsweall  those  whome  the  ^ounsall. 
civill  swearde  aucht  to  punische  as  the  uthiris,  frome  all  par- 
ticipatioun  with  hir  in  prayeris  and  sacramentis,  till  oppin 
repentence  manifestlie  appeare  in  tliame.  As  the  ordour  of 
Excommunicatioun  and  proceiding  to  the  same  audit  to  be 
grave  and  slow,  so  being  onis  pronunced  aganist  any  persoun, 
off  what  estait  and  conditioun  that  ever  thay  be,  it  must  be 
keipit  with  all  severitie.  For  lawis  maid  and  nocht  keipit 
engenderetli  contempt  of  virtu,  and  bringis  in  confusioun  and 

1  In  edit.  1722,  Cliap.  IX.  ^  x,^  edit.  1621,  "  contemners." 


228  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

libertic  to  syn  :  And  tliairforo  this  ordour  we  think  expedient 
to  be  observit  before  and  efter  excommunicatioun. 

First,  yf  the  offence  be  secreit  and  knawin  to  few,i  and 
rathir  standis  in  suspitioun  than  in  manifest  probatioun,  the 
offender  aucht  to  be  privatlie  admoniseheit  to  abstene  fromo 
all  appearance  of  evill  ;  whiche  yf  he  proraissis  to  do,  and  to 
declair  him  self  sober,  honest,  and  one  that  feareth  God,  and 
feareth  to  offend  his  brethren,  than  may  the  secreit  admoni- 
tioun  suffice  for  his  correctioun.  But  gif  he  athir  contempn 
the  admonitioun,  or  efter  promis  maid,  do  schaw  him  self  no 
more  circumspect  than  he  was  before,  than  must  the  Minister 
admonische  him  ;  to  whome  yf  he  be  fund  inobedient,  tliei 
must  proceid  according  to  the  reule  of  Christ,  as  efter  sail  be 
declairit. 

Gif  the  cryme  be  publict,  and  suche  as  is  haynouse,  as  for- 
nicatioun,  drunkynnes,  fechting,  commoun  sweiring,  or  execra- 
tioun,  than  aucht  the  offendar  to  be  callit  in  the  presence  of 
the  Minister,  Elderis,  and  Deaconis,  whair  his  syn  and  offence  2 
aucht  to  be  declared  and  aggredgeit,  so  that  his  conscience 
may  feale  how  far  he  hath  offended  God,  and  what  sklander 
he  hath  rasit  in  the  Churche.^  Yf  signis  of  unfeinyeit  repen- 
tence  appeare  into  him,  and  gif  he  require  to  be  admitted  to 
publict  repentence,  the  Ministerie  may  appoint  unto  him  a  day 
whan  the  hoill  Churche  convenith  togidder,  that  in  presence 
of  all  he  may  testifie  the  repentence  whiche  before  thame  he 
professed  :  Whiche  yf  he  accept,  and  with  reverence  do,  con- 
fessing his  syn,  and  dampnyng  the  same,^  and  earnestlie  de- 
siring the  Congregatioun  to  pray  to  God  with  him  for  mercy, 
and  to  accept  him  in  thair  societie,  nochtwithstanding  his 
formar  offence :  than  the  Churche  may,  and  aught  resave 
him  as  a  penitent  ;  for  the  Churche  aught  to  be  no  more 
seveir  than  God  declarith  him  self  to  be,  who  witncssith,  that 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  or  known  to  few  •'  In  edit.  1621,  "  Kirk." 

men."  ''  In  edit.  1621,  "  and  with  reverence 

'■^  In  edit.  1G21,  "  and  trespass."  confesse  his  sinne,  doing  the  same." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  229 

"  In  wliatsoever  hour  anc  synner  unfeynedlie  repentcth,  and 
turnis  from  liis  wickit  way,  that  he  will  nocht  remember 
ane  of  his  iniquitcis."  And  thairfore  the  Churche  aught  de- 
ligentlie  to  advert  that  it  excommunicat  not  those  whom  God 
absolvith. 

Yf  the  ofFendar  callit  before  the  Ministerie  be  fund  stubume, 
hard-hertit,  or  one  in  whome  no  signe  of  repentence  appeareth, 
than  must  he  be  demissed  with  ane  exhortatioun  to  considder 
the  dangerus  estait  in  whiche  ho  standis  ;  assuring  him,  yf  thei 
find  into  him  no  uthir  tokin  of  amendment  of  lyfe,  that  tliai 
will  be  compelled  to  seake  a  farther  rcmedie.  Yf  he  within 
ane  certane  space  schaw  his  repentence  to  the  Ministrie,  thei 
must  present  him  to  the  Churche  as  before  is  said. 

But  gif  he  continew  in  his  impenitence,  than  must  the  Churche 
be  admonisched^  that  suclie  crymcs  are  committed  amangis 
thame,  whiche  by  the  Ministerie  hath  bene  reprehend  it,  and 
the  personis  provocked  to  repent  ;  whairof  becaus  no  signis 
appeareth  unto  thame,  thei  could  not  but  signifie  unto  the 
Churche  the  crymcs,  but  not  the  persoun,  requiring  thame 
carnistlie  to  call  to  God  to  move  and  tuiche  the  heartis  of  the 
otfenderis,  so  that  suddanlie  and  earnistlie  thei  may  repent. 

Yf  the  persoun  maligne,  than  the  nixt  day  of  publict  assem- 
blie ;  the  cryme  and  the  persoun  must  be  both  notifyed  unto 
the  Churche,  and  thair  judgement  must  be  requirit,  yf  that 
suche  crymes  aught  to  be  suffered  unpunischeit  amangis 
thame :  Requeast  also  wald  be  maid  to  the  most  discreit  and 
to  the  nearest  freindis  of  the  offendare  to  travell  with  him  to 
bring  him  to  knawledge  of  himself,  and  of  his  dangerus 
estait,  with  ane  commandiment  gevin  to  all  man  to  call  to 
God  for  the  conversioun  of  the  impenitent.  Yf  ane  solempned 
and  ane  speciall  prayer  war  maid  and  drawin  for  that  purpose, 
the  thing  shuld  be  the  more  gravelie  done.^ 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  K  he  continue  not  -  This  was  afterwards  done,  in  the 

in  his  repentance,  then  must  the  Kirk  Order  of  Excommunication  and  of 
be  advertised."  Public  Repentance. 


230  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

The  thrid  Sunday,  the  Minister  aught  to  require  yf  the  un- 
penitent have  declared  ony  signis  of  repentence  to  ony  of  the 
Ministerie;  and  yf  he  hath,  then  may  the  Minister  appoint 
him  to  be  examinated  be  the  hoill  Ministerie  ;  eathir  then  in- 
stantlie,  or  at  ane  utlier  day  affixed  to  the  consistorie :  and  yf 
repentence  appeare,  alsweill  of  the  ciyme,  as  of  his  long  con- 
tempt, then  may  he  be  presented  to  the  Churche,  and  mak  his 
confessioun,  and  to  be  accepted  as  before  is  said.  But  yf  no 
man  signifie  his  repentence,  then  aught  he  to  be  excommuni- 
cat ;  and  by  the  mouth  of  the  Minister,  consent  of  the  Minis- 
terie, and  commandiment  of  the  Churche,  must  sick  a  con- 
tempnar  be  pronunced  excommunicat  from  God,  and  from  the 
societie  of  his  Churche. 

After  whiclie  sentence  may  no  persoun,  (his  wife  and  fami- 
lie  onlie  excepted,)  have  ony  kynde  of  conversatioun  with  him, 
be  it  in  eiting  and  drinking,  buying  or  selling,  yea,  in  saluting 
or  talking  with  him  ;  except  that  it  be  at  the  commandiment 
or  licence  of  the  Ministerie  for  his  conversioun ;  that  he  by 
suche  meanis  confoundit,  seing  him  self  abhorrit  of  the  faytli- 
fuU  and  godlie,  may  have  occasioun  to  repent  and  be  so  savit. 
The  sentence  of  liis  Excommunicatioun  must  be  ^^ublischeit 
universalie  throwhout  the  Realme,  least  that  any  man  sould 
pretend  ignorance. 

His  children  begottin  or  borne  efter  that  sentence  and  be- 
fore his  repentence,  may  noclit  be  admitted  to  baptisme,  till 
eathir  thei  be  of  aige  to  require  the  samin,  or  ell  is  that  the 
Moder,  or  sura  of  his  especiall  freinds,  members  of  the 
Churche,  offer  and  present  the  child,  abhorring  and  danip- 
nyng  the  iniquitie  and  obstinat  contempt  of  the  impenitent. 
Yf  ony  think  it  seveir,"^  that  the  child  suld  be  punischeit  for 
the  iniquitie  of  the  Fader;  let  thame  understand  that  the  sacra- 
mentis  appertene  onlie  to  the  faithfull  and  to  thair  seade : 
But  suche  as  stuburnlie  contempt  all  godlie  admonitioun,  and 

'  In  eclit.  1G21,  "  If  anv  inai)  i^hol!M  think  it  severe." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  231 

obstinatlie  remane  in  tliair  iniquitie,  can  nocht  be  accomijtcd 
amangist  the  faitlifull. 

11.  The  Ordoure  for  Publict  Offendaris. 

We  have  spokin  no  thing  of  those  that  commit  horrible 
crymis,  as  murtheraris,  man-slayaris,  and  adulteraris  ;  for  suclie 
(as  we  have  said)  the  Civill  swearde  o,ug]it  to  punische  to 
death :  But  in  case  thei  be  permitted  to  leve,  than  must 
the  Churche,  as  before  is  said,  dravsr  the  swearde  wliiche  of 
God  scho  hath  receaved,  hakling  thame  as  accursed  evin  in 
thair  [very]  fact.  The  oifendar  being  first  called,  and  ordour 
of  the  Churche  used  aganis  him,  in  the  same  maner  as  the 
personis  that  for  obstinat  impenitence  ar  publictlie  excommu- 
nicat :  So  that  the  obstinat  impenitent  efter  the  sentence  of 
excommunicatioun,  and  the  murtherar  or  adulterar  stand  in 
one  case  as  concernying  the  judgement  of  [the  Churche]  ;  tliat 
is,  neathir  of  both  may  be  receaved  in  the  fellowschip  of  the 
Churche  to  pi'ayeris  or  sacramentis,  (but  to  heiring  of  the 
word  thei  may,)  till  first  thei  offer  thame  selfis  to  the  Minis- 
terie,  humblic  requiring  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis  to  pray  to 
God  for  thame  ;  and  alsua  to  be  intercessouris  to  the  Churche, 
that  thei  may  be  admitted  to  publict  repentence,  and  so  to  coxskntm 
the  fruitioun  of  the  benefitis  of  Christ  Jesus,  distributed  to  lokdis. 
the  memberis  of  his  body. 

Yf  this  requeist  be  huniilie  maid,  then  may  not  the  Minis- 
teris refuise  to  signifie  the  same  unto  the  Churche,  the  nixt 
day  of  publict  preaching,^  the  Minister  geving  exhortatioun  to 
the  Churche  to  pray  to  God  to  performe  the  work  whiche  he 
appearit  to  have  begun,  wirking  in  the  heart  of  the  offendare 
unfeyned  repentence  of  his  grevous  cryme,  and  the  sence^  and 
fealing  of  his  gretit  mercy,  by  the  operatioun  of  his  Holie 
Spirit.  Thairefter  ane  day  audit  publictlie  to  be  assignit 
unto  him  to  gif  oppin  confessioun  of  his  offence  and  contemi^t, 

1  hi  MS.  l.jij'i,  ••  publict  praying."         -  in  edit.  1621,  •■  cryuio  ami  offciiue." 


232  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

and  sa  to  mak  ane  publict  satisfactioun  to  the  Cliurche  of  God. 
Whiche  day  the  offenderis  must  appeare  in  presence  of  the 
hoill  Churche,  and  with  his  awin  mouthe  dampne  his  awin 
impietie,  publictlie  confessing  the  same  ;  desiring  God  of  his 
grace  and  merc}^,  and  his  congregatioun,  that  it  will  please 
thame  to  accept  him  in  thair  societie,  as  before  is  said.  The 
Minister  must  examinat  him  diligentlie  Avhethir  he  find  a 
haitrent  and  displesour  of  his  syn,  alsweill  of  his  crjme  as 
of  his  contempt  -A  Avhiche  yf  he  confesse,  he  must  travell  with 
him,  to  se  what  hope  he  hath  of  Goddis  mercy. 

And  gif  he  find  him  reasonahillie  instructed  in  the  knaw- 
ledge  of  Christ  Jesus,  in  the  virtu  of  his  death ;  than  may  the 
Minister  confort  him  by  Goddis  infallibill  premisses,  and  de- 
mand of  the  Churche  yf  thei  be  content  to  resave  tliat  creature 
of  God,  whome  Satlian  before  have  drawin  in  his  nettis,  in 
the  societie  of  thair  body,  seing  that  he  declairis  him  self 
penitent.  Wliiche  yf  the  Churche  grant,  as  thai  may  not 
justlie  deny  the  same,  than  aught  the  Minister  in  publict 
prayer  to  commend  him  to  God,  confesse  the  syn  of  that  ofFen- 
dar,  and  of  the  whole 2  Churche,  desiring  mercy  and  grace  for 
Christ  Jesus  saik.  Wliiche  prayer  being  endit,  the  Minister 
aught  to  exhort  the  Churche  to  resave  that  penitent  brothir 
in  tliair  favouris,  as  thay  require  God  to  resave  thame  selfis, 
whan  thay  have  offendit ;  and  in  signe  of  thair  consent,  the 
Elderis  and  cheaf  men  of  the  Churche  sail  tak  the  penitent 
by  the  hand,  and  one  or  two  in  name  of  the  whole  shall  kiss 
and  imbrace  him  with  all  reverence  and  gravitie,  as  a  member 
of  Christ  Jesus. 

Whiche  being  done,  the  Minister  sliall  exhort  the  recon- 
cilled^  to  tak  diligent  heid  in  tymes  cuming,  that  Sathan 
trap  him  nocht  in  suche  crymes,  admonissing  him  that  he  will 
nocht  cease  to  tempt  and  trye  [by]  all  meanis  possibill  to 

1  In  edit.  1621,  the  words  "  cryme,"  -  In  edit.  1621,  "before  the  whole." 

and  '•  c^mtenipt,"  aro  transposed.  ''  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  received." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  233 

bring  him  fromc  that  obedience  whiche  he  hath  gevin  to  God, 
and  to  the  ordinance  of  his  Sone  Christ  Jesus.  The  exhorta- 
tioun  being  ended,  the  Minister  aught  to  gif  publict  thankis 
luito  God  for  the  conversioun  of  that  thair  brotliir,  and  for 
the  benifittis  quliilk  Ave  resave  by  Jesus  Christ,  praying  for 
the  increase  and  continewance  of  the  same. 

Yf  the  penitent,  efter  that  he  have  offered  him  self  to  the 
Ministerie,  or  to  the  Churche,  be  fund  ignorant  in  the  princi- 
pal! pointis  of  oure  religioun,  and  cheaflie  in  the  article  of 
Justiticatioun,  and  of  the  office  of  Christ  Jesus,  than  audit  he 
to  be  exactlie  instructed  before  he  be  receaved :  For  ane 
mocking  of  God  it  is  to  receave  thame  in  repentence,  who 
knoweth  not  whairin  standis  thair  remeid,  whan  thai  repent 
thair  syn. 

III.  Personis  subject  to  Discipline. 
To  Discipline  must  all  Estaitis  within  this  Realme  be  subject,  ^rL™'' 
yf  thay  oifend,!  alsweil  the  Reullaris  as  thay  that  are  reulit ;  ^^^^" 
yea  and  the  Preachearis  thame  selfis,  alsweill  as  the  poorest 
within  the  Churche.     And  becaus  the  eye  and  mouth  of  the 
Churche  aught  to  be  most  single  and  irreprehensibill,  the  life 
and  conversatioun  of  the  Ministers  aucht  most  diligentlie  to 
be  tryed.     Whairof  we  shall  speake,  efter  that  we  have  spokin 
of  the  electioun  of  Elderis  and  Deaconis,  who  must  assist  the 
Ministeris  in  all  public  eifaires  of  the  Churche,  &c.2 


The  Eyght  Heid,  tuiching  the  Electioun  off  Elderis 
AND  Deaconis,  kc.^ 

Men  of  best  knawledge  in  Goddis  word,  of  cleanest  life,  men 
faithfull,  and  of  most  honest  conversatioun  that  can  be  fund 
in  the  Churche,  must  be  nominated  to  be  in  electioun ;  and 

1  The  words,  "  yf  they  offend,"  are  =  In  edit.  1621,  «  of  the  Kirk." 

omitted  in  edit.  1621.  ^  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  X. 


JUDGE. 


234  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

the  names  of  the  same  musti  be  publictlie  red  to  the  whole 

Kirk  by  the  Minister,  geving  thame  advertisement,  that  frome 

amongest  these  must  be  chosin  Elderis  and  Deaconis.    Yf  anye 

of  the  nominated  be  noted  with  publict  infamye,  he  aught  to 

be  repelled  ;  for  it  is  not  seamlie  that  the  servand  of  corrup- 

tioun  shall  have  authoritie  to  judge  in  the  Churche  of  God. 

Yf  anye  man  knowis  utheris  of  better  qualiteis  within  the 

Churche  then  these  that  beis  nominated,  lat  thame  be  put  in 

electioun,  that  the  Church  may  have  the  choise. 

tTi*cRCHE3         ^f  church eis^  be  of  smaller  nomber  than  that  Seniouris  and 

jo\-^-ED       Deaconis  can  be  chosin  frome  amangis  thame,  then  may  thay 

poLEul      Weill  be  joyned  to  the  nixt  adjacent  Churche :    For  the  j^lura- 

litie  of  cliurcheis,  without  ministeris  and  ordour,  shall  rathir 

hurt  than  edifie. 

The  electioun  of  Elderis  and  Deaconis  aught  to  be  used 
everie  yeare  once,  (whiche  we  judge  to  be  most  convenient  the 
first  day  of  August ;)  least  that  by  long  continuance  of  suche 
officiaris,  men  presume  upoun  the  libertie  of  the  Churche.  It 
hurtis  not  that  one  man  be  reteaned  in  office  mo  yearis  than 
one,  so  that  he  be  appointed  yearlie,  by  common  and  fre 
electioun ;  provideit  alwayes,  that  the  Deaconis,  thesauraris, 
be  not  compelled  to  receave  the  office  againe  for  the  space  of 
three  yearis. 

How  the  voitis  and  sutfreigeis  may  be  best  receaved,  so  that 
everie  man  may  gyf  his  vote  frelic,  everie  sevcrall  Churche 
may  tack  such  ordour  as  best  seameth  to  thame. 

The  Elderis  being  elected,  must  be  admouischeit  of  thair 
office,  which  is  to  assist  the  Minister  in  all  publict  effarcs  of 
the  Churche;  to  wit,  in  judgeing  and  decernyng^  causses ;  in 
geving  of  admonitioun  to  the  licentious  lever  ;  in  having  of 
respect  to  the  manneris  and  conversatioun  of  all  men  within 
thair  charge;  for  by  the  gravitie  of  the  Seniouris  aught  the 

^  111  edit.  IGlil,  "and  their  names."  ^  In  edit.  1G21,  "to  wit,  in  deteniiiii- 

^  In  edit.  lUliL  "  If  the  kirk."  ing  :uid  judging." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  235 

lielit  and  unbridillit  life  of  the  licentious  be  corrected  and 
bridillit. 

Yea,  the  Seniouris  aught  to  tah  hcyde  to  the  life,  manneris, 
deligence,  and  studye  of  thair  Ministeris.  Yf  lie  be  Avorthie  of 
admonitioun,  tliei  must  admonische  him  ;  of  correctioun,  thei 
must  correct  him  :  And  yf  he  be  worthy  of  depositioun,  tliay 
with  consent  of  tlie  Churchc  and  Superintendent  may  depose 
him,  so  that  his  cryme  so  deserve.  Yf  a  Minister  be  licht  in 
conversatioun,  by  his  Elderis  and  Seniouris,  he  auglit  to  be 
adraonisched.  Yf  he  be  negligent  in  studie,  or  one  that  vaketh 
not  upoun  his  charge  and  flocke,  or  one  that  proponeth  not 
frutefull  doctrine,  he  deservith  scharpear  admonitioun  and  cor- 
rectioun. To  i\\Q  whiche  yf  he  be  fund  stubburne  and  inobe- 
dient,  tlian  may  the  Seniouris  of  one  Churche  complaine  to  the 
Ministerie  of  the  two  nixt  adjacent  churcheis,  whaire  men 
of  greater  gravitie  are ;  to  whois  admonitioun  yf  he  be  fund 
inobedient,  he  auglit  to  be  discharged  frome  his  ministerie  till 
his  repentence  appeare,  and  a  place  be  vaking  for  him. 

Yf  any  Minister  be  deprehendit  in  any  notable  cryme,  as 
huredome,  adulterie,  murther,  man-slauchter,  peijurie,  teach- 
ing of  heresie,  or  ony  such  as  deserve  death,  oi*  [that]  may  be 
ane  note  of  perpetuall  infaniye,  he  aught  to  be  deposed  for  ever. 
By  Heresie,  Ave  meane  pernitius  doctrine  planelie  taught,  and 
obstinatlie  defended,  aganis  the  foundatioun  and  principallis  of 
our  faith :  and  such  a  cryme  Ave  juge  to  deserve  peipetuall  de- 
positioun frome  the  ministrie ;  for  most  dangerus  Ave  knoAv  it 
to  be,  to  commit  the  flock  to  ane  man  infected  with  the  pesti- 
lence of  heresye. 

Some  crymes  deserve  depositioun  for  ane  tyme,  and  Avhill 
the  persoun  gyf  declaratioun  of  gretar  gravitie  and  honnestie : 
as  yf  a  minister  be  deprehendit  dronk,  in  braAvling  or  fcchting, 
ane  oppiii  sklanderar,  ane  infamer  of  his  nychtbour,  factious 
and  sawar  of  discord,  lie  may  be  commandit  to  cease  from  his 
ministrie,  till  he  declair  the  signis  of  repentence  ;  upoun  the 


236  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

whiclie,  the  Churche  sail  abide  liim  the  space  of  twentye  dayis 
or  farther,  as  the  Churche  shall  think  expedient,  before  that 
thay  proceed  to  ane  new  electioun. 

Everic  inferiour  Churche  shall  by  one  of  thair  Seniouris  and 
one  of  thair  Deaconis,  onis  in  the  year,  notifie  unto  the 
ministerie  of  the  Superintendentis  churche,  the  life,  maneris, 
studye,  and  deligence  of  thair  Ministeris,  to  the  end  that  the 
discretioun  of  some  may  correct  the  lenitie  of  otheris. 

Not  onlie  may  the  life  and  maneris  of  the  Ministeris  cum 
under  censure  and  judgement  of  the  Churche,  hot  also  of 
thair  wiffes,  children,  and  familie;  judgement  must  be  tackin, 
that  he  neather  live  riotuslie,  neathir  yit  avaritiuslie ;  yea, 
respect  must  be  had  how  thay  spend  the  stipend  appointed 
to  thair  loving.  Yf  ane  reasonabill  stypend  be  appointed,  and 
thay  leve  avariciuslie,  thai  must  be  admonisched  to  live  so  as 
thay  resave ;  for  as  excesse  and  superfluitie  is  nocht  tolle- 
rabill  in  ane  minister,  so  is  avarice  and  the  cairfull  sollicitude 
of  money  and  geir^  utterlie  to  be  damned  in  Christis  servandis, 
and  especialie  in  those  that  are  fed  upoun  the  charge  of  the 
Cliurch,  We  judge  it  unseamlie  and  not  tollerabill  that  minis- 
teris shall  be  burdeit  in  commoun  aill-housses  or  tavernis. 

Neathir  yit  must  ane  Minister  be  permitted  to  frequent  and 
comm onlie  hant  the  Court,  onless  it  be  be  for  a  time,  when  he 
is  eathir  send  be  the  Churche,  eathir  yit  called  for  by  the 
Authoritie  for  his  counsall  and  judgement.  Neathir  yit  must 
he  be  one  of  the  counsall  in  Civill  effaires,  be  he  never  judgeit 
so  apt  for  that  purpose ;  but  eathir  must  he  cease  frome  the 
ministerie  (whiche  at  his  awin  plesour  he  may  not  do,)  or  ellis 
from  bearing  charge  in  Civill  effaires,  onles  it  be  to  assist  the 
Parliament  yf  he  be  2  called. 

The  office  of  the  Deaconis,  as  is  before  declared,  is  to  receave 
the  rentis,  and  gadder  the  almous  of  the  Churche,  to  keip  and 
distribute  the  same,  as  by  the  ministerie  of  the  Kirk  shall  be 

1  In  .!il.  1G21,  the  words  "  and  gcir,"  omitted.  -  In  MS.  1506,  "  if  thay  be." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  237 

appointed.  Tliay  may  also  assist  in  judgement  with  tlic 
Ministeris  and  Elderis,  and  may  he  admitted  to  read  in  tlie 
asscmblie  yf  tliei  be  required,  and  be  fund  abill  thairto. 

The  Elderis  and  Deaconis,  with  thair  wiffeis  and  houshaldis 
must  be  under  the  same  censure  that  is  preseribit  for  the 
Ministeris :  for  thay  must  be  cairfull  over  thair  office  ;  and 
seing  that  thay  ar  judgeis  to  the  maneris  of  uthiris,  thair 
awin  conversatioun  aught  to  be  irreprehensible :  Thay  must 
be  sober,  humill,  luifaris  and  interteinaris  of  concord  and  peace  ; 
and,  finalie,  thay  aught  to  be  the  exempill  of  godlines  till 
otheris.  And  yf  the  contrarie  thairof  appeare,  thay  must  be 
admonisched  by  the  Minister,  or  by  some  of  thair  brethren  of 
the  ministerie,  yf  the  fait  be  secreit  ;  and  gif  it  be  oppin  and 
knawin,  it  must  be  rebucked  before  the  ministerie,  and  the 
same  ordour  keipit  against  the  Seniour  or  Deacon,  that  be- 
fore is  describit  aganis  the  Minister. 

We  think  it  nott  necessarie  that  ony  publict  stypend  shall 
be  appointed,  eathir  to  the  Elderis,  or  yit  to  the  Deaconis,  be- 
caus  thair  travell  contineuis  hot  for  ane  yeare ;  and  alsua 
becaus  that  thay  are  not  so  occupyed  with  the  eifares  of  the 
Churche,  but  that  reasonabillie  thay  may  attend  upoun  thair 
domesticall  besynes. 


The  Nnyt  Heade,  concernyng  the  Polecie  of  the 
Churche.i 

Polecie  we  call  ane  exercise  of  the  Churche  2  in  suche 
thingis  as  may  bring  the  rude  and  ignorant  to  knawledge,  or 
ellis  inflambe  the  learned  to  greater  ferveucie,  or  to  reteane 
the  Churche  in  gude  ordour.  And  thairof  thair  be  two  sortis : 
the  one  utterlie  necessarie ;  as  that  the  word  be  treulie  preched, 
the  sacramentis  richtlie  ministrat,  common  prayeris  publictlie 

»  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  XL  *  in  eilit.  1621,   "  Policie  wee  call  an 

exercise  of  the  Kirk." 


238  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

maid ;  that  the  cliildren  and  rude  personis  be  instmcted  in  the 
cheaf  pointis  of  religioun,  and  that  offences  be  corrected  and 
punisched  ;  these  thingis,  we  say,  be  so  necessarie,  that  without 
the  same  thair  is  no  face  of  ane  visible  Kirk.  The  other  is 
proffitablc,  bot  not  of  mere  necessitie  ;  as,  that  Psalmes  suld  be 
sung ;  that  certane  placis  of  the  Scripturis  suld  be  red  whan 
thair  is  no  sermon ;  that  this  day  or  tliat  day,  few  or  many  in 
the  weeke,  the  churche  suld  assemble.  Oif  these  and  suche 
utheris  we  can  not  se  how  ane  certane  ordour  can  be  es- 
tablisched.  For  in  some  churcheis  the  Psalmes  may  be  con- 
venientlie  sung  ;  in  utheris,  perchance,  thay  can  not.  Some 
churcheis  may  convene  everie  day ;  some  thryise  or  twise  in 
the  weeke  ;  some  perchance  bot  onis.  In  these  and  such  like 
must  everie  particular  Churche,  by  thair  awin  consent,  ap- 
point thair  awin  Polecie. 

In  greit  Tounis  we  think  expedient  that  everie  day  thair  be 
eathir  Sermon,  or  ellis  Common  Prayeris,  with  some  exercise 
of  reiding  the  Scripturis.  What  day  the  publict  Sermon  is, 
we  can  neathir  require  or  gretlie  approve  that  the  Commoun 
Prayeris  be  publictlie  used,  least  that  we  shall  eathir  fostar 
the  pcple  in  superstitioun,  wha  come  to  the  Prayeris  as  thay 
come  to  tlie  Messe  ;  or  ellis  give  thame  occasioun  to  think  that 
those  be  no  prayeris  whiche  ar  maid  before  and  efter  Sermon. 

In  everie  notable  Toun,  we  require  that  one  day  besydis  the 
Sunday,  be  appointed  to  the  Sermone  and  Prayeris ;  whiche, 
during  the  tyme  of  Sermone,  must  be  keipit  fre  frome  all  ex- 
ercise of  laubour,  alsweill  of  the  maister  as  of  the  servandis. 
In  smaller  tounis,  as  we  have  said,  the  commoun  consent  of 
the  Churche  must  put  ordour.  But  the  Sunday  must  straitlie 
be  keipit,  both  before  and  efter  noon,  in  all  tounis.  Before 
noon,  must  the  word  be  preached  and  sacramentis  ministered, 
as  also  Mariage  solempnissed,  yf  occasioun  offer :  After  noon 
must  the  young  children  be  publictlie  examinated  in  thair 
Catechisme  in  audience  of  the  pepill,  in  doing  whairof  the 


THE  BUKE  OP  DISCIPLINE.  239 

Minister  must  tak  grot  dcligencc,  alswcill  to  cause  the  Pepill 
to  understand  tlie  questionis  proponed,  as  tlie  ansueiris,  and 
the  doctrine  that  may  be  collected  thairof.  The  ordourl  and 
how  much  is  appointed  for  everie  Sunday,  is  alreaddy  dis- 
tinct it  in  oure  buke  of  Common  Ordour;2  whiche  Catechism 
is  the  most  perfite  that  ever  yit  was  used  in  the  Churche. 
At  efter  noon  also  may  Baptisme  be  ministered,  whan  occa- 
sioun  is  offered  of  great  travell  before  noon.  It  is  also  to  be 
observit,  that  prayeris  be  used  at  after  noon  upoun  the  Sun- 
day, whair  thair  is  neathir  preching  nor  catechisme. 

It  appcrteaneth  to  the  Policie  of  the  Churche  to  appoint  the 
tymes  whan  the  Sacramentis  shall  be  ministered.  Baptisme 
may  be  ministrat  whensoever  the  word  is  preached ;  but  we 
think  it  more  expedient,  that  it  be  ministered  upoun  the 
Sunday,  or  upoun  the  day  of  prayeris,  oulie  after  the  sermon  ; 
partlie  to  remove  this  gross  errour  by  the  which  many  de- 
ceaved,  think  ^  that  children  be  dampned  yf  thay  die  without 
Baptisme  ;  and  partlie  to  mak  the  people  assist  the  adminis- 
tratioun  of  that  sacrament  Avitli  greater  reverence  than  thei 
do.'^  For  we  do  see  the  people  begyn  alreddie  to  wax  weary 
be  rcasoun  of  the  frequent  repetitioun  of  those  premisses. 

Foure  tymes  in  the  yeare  we  think  sufficient  to  the  admi- 
nistratioun  of  the  Lordis  Tabill,  which  we  desire  to  be  dis- 
tincted,  that  the  superstitioun  of  tymes  may  be  avoided  so 
far  as  may  be.  Your  Honouris  ar  nocht  ignorant  how  super 
stitiouslie  the  people  ryn  to  that  actioun  at  Pasche,  evin  as 
[if]  the  tyme  gave  virtue  to  the  Sacrament ;  and  how  the  rest 
of  the  hoill  yeare  thai  ar  cairles  and  negligent,  as  [if]  that  it  ap- 

1  The  Editor  in  17 '2'2,  has  given  tliis  -  See  note  2,  page  210. 

sentence  as  follows  : — "  The  Order  to  be  ^  In  edit.  1G21,  "  many  are  deceived, 

kept  in  teaching   the   Catechism,    and  thinking." 

how  much  of  it  is  appointed  for  every  *  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  make  the  people 

Sunday,  is  already  distinguished  in  the  have  greater  reverence  to  the  adminis- 

Catechism  printed  with  the  Book  of  our  tration  of  the  Sacraments  then   they 

Common  Order.''  have." 


240  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

perteaneth  not  unto  thame  but  at  that  tyme  onlie.  We  think 
thairfore  most  expedient,  that  the  first  Sunday  of  Marche  be 
appointed  for  one  [time] ;  the  first  Sunday  of  Junij  for  ane 
utlier ;  the  first  Sunday  of  September  for  the  thrid  ;  and  the 
first  Sunday  of  December  for  the  fourt.  We  do  not  deny  but 
tliat  any  severall  churche,  for  reasonable  causses,  may  change 
the  tyme,  and  may  minister  ofter ;  but  we  study  to  suppressed 
superstitioun.  All  Ministeris  must  be  admonisclied  to  be 
more  cairfull  to  instruct  the  ignorant  than  readdie  to  satisfied 
thair  ajjpetiteis,  and  more  scharp  in  examinatioun  then 
indulgent,  in  admitting  to  that  great  Mysterie^  such  as 
be  ignorant  of  the  use  and  virtu  of  the  same :  and  thairfore 
we  think  that  the  administratioun  of  the  Table  aught  never 
to  be  witliout  that  examinatioun  pass  before,  especiallie  of 
those  whose  knawledge  is  suspect.  We  think  that  none  ar 
apt  to  be  admitted  to  that  Mysterie  who  can  not  formalie 
say  the  Lordis  Prayer,  the  Articles  of  the  Beleif,  and  declair 
the  soume  of  the  Law.* 

Farthir,  we  think  it  a  thing  most  expedient  and  necessarie, 
that  everie  Churche  have  a  Bibill  in  Inglische,  and  that  the 
people  be  commanded  to  convene  to  heir  the  plane  reiding  or 
interpretatioun  of  the  Scripturis,  as  the  Churche  shall  appoint ; 
that  be  frequent  reiding  this  gross  ignorance,  whiche  in  the 
cursit  Papistrie  hath  overflowne  all,  may  partlie  be  removit. 
We  think  it  most  expedient  that  the  Scripturis  be  red  in  or- 
dour,  that  is,  that  some  one  buke  of  the  Auld  and  the  New 
Testament  be  begun  and  ordourlie  red  to  the  end.  And  the 
same  we  judge  of  preching,  whair  the  Minister  for  [the] 
maist  part  remaneth  in  one  place :  For  this  skipping  and 
divagatioun  frome  place  to  place  of  the  Scripture,  be  it  in 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  minister  oftncr,  but  ^  The  Editor,  in  1722,  supplies,  at  the 

we  studie  to  represse."'  end  of  this  paragraph  :  "  And  under- 

-  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  serve."  standoth  not  the  use  and  virtue  of  this 

^  In  edit.  1621,"  thir  great  mysteries."  holy  Sacrament." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  241 

reiding,  or  be  it  in  prccheing',  wc  judge  not  so  proffitabill  to 
cdific  the  Churche,  as  tlie  continewall  following  of  ane  text. 

Everie  Maister  of  lioushald  must  be  commandit  eathir  to 
instruct,  or  ellis  cans  [to]  be  instructed,  his  children,  servandis, 
and  familie,  in  the  principallis  of  the  Christiane  religioun  ; 
without  the  knawledge  whairof  aught  none  to  be  admitted  to 
the  Tabill  of  the  Lord  Jesus  :  for  suche  as  be  so  dull  and  so 
ignorant,  that  thei  can  neathir  try  thame  selfis,  neathir  yit 
know  the  dignitie  and  misterie  of  that  actioun,  can  not  eat 
and  drink  of  that  Tabill  worthelie.  And  thairfore  of  necessitie 
we  judge  it,  that  everie  yeare  at  least,  publict  examinatioun  be 
had  by  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis  of  the  knawledge  of  everie 
persoun  within  the  Churche ;  to  wit,  that  everie  maister  and 
maistres  of  houshald  cum  thame  selvis  and  thair  familie  so 
many  as  be  cum  to  maturitie,  before  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis, 
to  gyf  confessioun  of  thair  faith,  and  to  ansueir  to  such  cheaf 
points  of  Religioun  as  the  Ministeris  shall  demand.  Such  as 
be  ignorant  in  the  Articulis  of  thair  Faith  ;^  understand  not, 
nor  can  not  rehearse  the  Commandimentis  of  God  ;  knaw  not 
how  to  pray ;  neathir  whairinto  thair  richtuousnes  consistis, 
aught  not  to  be  admitted  to  the  Lordis  Tabill.  And  gif  thay 
stuburnlie  continew,^  and  suffer  thair  children  and  servandis 
to  continew  in  wilfull  ignorance,  the  discipline  of  the  Churche 
must  proceid  against  them  unto  excommunicatioun  ;  and  than 
must  the  mater  be  referred  to  the  Civill  Magistrat.  For  seing 
that  the  just  levith  be  his  awin  faith,  and  that  Christ  Jesus 
justifieth  be  knawledge  off  him  self,  insufferable  we  judge  it 
that  men  shall  be  permitted  to  leve  and  continew  in  ignorance 
as  memberis  of  the  Churche  of  God,^ 

Moreover,  men,  wemen,  and  children  wald  be  exhorted  to 
exercise  thame  selvis  in  the  Psalmes,  that  when  the  Churche 

*  Nearly  two  lines  iu  this  place  are  '  lu  edit.  1621,  "  to  live  as  members 

omitted  in  the  editions  1621  and  1722.        of  the   Kirk,    and   yet   to   continue  in 

^  In    edit.   1621,    "  stubburnly   con-       ignorance." 
temne." 

VOL.  II.  Q 


242  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

convenitli,   and  dois  sing,  thai  may  be  the  more  abill  togither 
with  commoun  heart  and  voice  to  prayse  God. 

In  private  housses  Ave  think  it  expedient,  that  the  most 
grave  and  discreate  persoun  use  the  Commoun  Prayeris  at 
morne  and  at  nycht,  for  the  confort  and  instructioun  of  uthiris. 
For  seing  that  we  behakl  and  se  the  hand  of  God  now  pre- 
sentlie  striking  us  with  diverse  plagues,  we  think  it  ane  con- 
tempt of  his  judgementis,  or  ane  provocatioun  of  his  anger 
more  to  be  kendillit  against  us,  yf  we  be  not  movit  to  repent- 
ence  of  oure  formar  unthankfuhies,  and  to  earnist  invocatioun 
of  His  name,  whois  onlie  power  may,  (and  great  mercy  will,) 
yif  we  unfeynedlie  convert  unto  him,  remove  from  us  these 
terribill  plagues  Avhiche  now  for  our  iniquiteis  hing  oure  our 
headis.     "  Convert  us,  0  Lord,  and  we  shall  be  converted." 


For  Preacheing,!  and  Interpreting  off  Scripturis,  &c. 

To  the  end  that  the  Churche  of  God  may  have  a  tryell 
of  mennis  knawledge,  judgementis,  gracis,  and  utterancis  ;  and 
also,  that  suche  as  somewhat  have  proffited  in  Goddis  worde, 
may  from  tyme  to  tyme  grow  to  more  full  perfectioun  to 
serve  the  Churche,  as  necessitie  shall  require  :  it  is  most  expe- 
dient that  in  evcrie  Toune,  whaire  Schollis  and  repair  of  learn- 
ed Men  ar,  that  thair  be  one  certane  day  everie  weake  ap- 
pointed [to]  that  Exercise,  which  Sanct  Paull  calleth  prophe- 
cieing  ;  the  ordour  whairof  is  expressed  by  him  in  these  words : 
"  Let  two  or  thre  propheitis  speik ;  and  lat  the  rest  judge : 
But  yf  any  thing  be  reveilled  to  him  that  sitteth  by,  lat  the 
formar  keip  silence  :  [For]  ye  may,  one  by  one,  all  prophecie, 
that  all  may  learn,  and  all  may  receave  consolatioun.  And  the 
Spreittis  (that  is,  the  judgementis)  of  the  Propheitis,  are  sub- 
ject to  the  propheitis."     Off  wliiche  wordis  of  the  Apostle,  it  is 

'  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  XII.,  and  the       Prophecying,    or    Interpreting    of   tlie 
title   is,   as   in   tlie   edit.    1621,    "For       Scriptures." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  243 

evident  that  in  Corintlius,  wlian  the  Churche  did  assemble l 
for  that  purpose,  sum  place  of  Scripture  was  red ;  upoun  the 
whiche,  first  one  gyf  his  judgement  to  the  instructioun  and 
consolatioun  of  the  auditouris ;  after  whome  did  one  uthir 
cathir  conferme  what  the  formare  had  said,  or  did  add  what 
he  had  omitted,  or  did  gentillie  coiTect  or  explane  more  pro- 
perlie  whair  the  hoill  veritie  was  not  reveilled  to  the  foraiar. 
And  in  case  sum  thingis  war  hid  frome  the  one  and  frome  the 
uthir,  libertie  Avas  gevin  to  the  thrid  to  speik  his  judgement 
for  edificatioun  of  the  Churche.  Above  the  whiche  nomber 
of  three,  (as  appereth,)  tliaj  passed  not,  for  avoiding  of  con- 
fusioun. 

These  Exercisses,  we  say,  ar  thingis  most  necessarie  for  the 
Churche  of  God  this  day  in  Scotland ;  for  thairby  (as  said  is) 
shall  the  Churche  have  judgement  and  knawledge  of  the 
gracis,  giftis,  and  utterances  of  everie  man  within  tliair  awin 
body  ;  the  simple,  and  suche  as  have  sumwhat  profited,  shall 
be  encurageit  dalie  to  study  and  proceid  in  knawledge  ;  the 
Churche  shall  be  edifyed  ;  (for  this  Exercise  must  be  patent  to 
suche  as  list  to  heir  and  learne,)  and  everie  man  shall  have 
libertie  to  utter  and  declair  his  mynd  and  knawledge  to  the 
confort  and  edificatioun  of  the  Churche. 

But  least  that  of  a  proffitable  Exercise  mycht  aryise^  debate 
and  strife,  curiouse,  peregryne  and  unprofB table  questionis  ar 
to  be  avoided.  All  interpretatioun  disaggreing  from  the  prin- 
cipallis  of  oure  faith,  repugn^mg  to  cheritie,  or  that  standis  in 
plane  contradictioun  to  ony  uthir  manifest  place  of  Scripture, 
is  to  be  rejected.  The  Interpretour  in  that  exercise,  may  nocht 
tack  to  him  self  the  libertie  of  ane  publict  Precheour,  yea, 
althocht  he  be  a  Minister  appointed  ;  but  he  must  bind  him 
self  to  his  text,  that  he  enter  not  by  disgressioun  in  explanyng 
commoun  places.     He  may  use  no  invective  in  that  exercise 

'  In  edit.  1621,   "  that  is  the  Kii-k  of  -  In  edit.  1621,  "  least  of  this  profit- 

Corinth,  when  they  did  assemble."  able  exercise  there  arise." 


244  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

onles  it  be  Avith  sobrietie  in  confuting  heresyes.  In  exhorta- 
tionis  or  admonitionis  he  must  be  scliorte,  tliat  the  tyme  may 
be  spent  in  oppenyng  of  the  mynd  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in  that 
place ;  in  following  the  fyle  ^  and  dependence  of  the  text,  and 
in  observing  suche  notes  as  may  instruct  and  edifie  the  audi- 
tour.  For  avoyding  of  contentioun,  neathir  may  the  interpre- 
tour,  neathir  yit  any  of  the  assemblie,  move  any  questioun  in 
oppen  audience,  whairto  him  self  is  not  content^  to  geve  reso- 
lutioun  without  reasoning  with  any  other ;  but  everie  man 
ought  to  speik  his  awin  judgement  to  the  edificatioun  of  the 
Churche. 

Yf  any  be  noted  with  curiositie,  or  bringyng  in  any  strange 
doctrine,  he  must  be  admonished  by  the  Moderatouris,  the 
Ministeris  and  Eldaris,  immediatlie  after  that  the  interpreta- 
tioun  is  ended.  The  hoill  memberis,^  and  nomber  of  thame 
that  ar  of  the  Assemblie,  ought  to  convene  togetther,  whair 
examinatioun  should  be  had,  how  the  persones  that  did  inter- 
prete  did  handle  and  convey  the  mater  ;  thei  thame  selffis  be- 
ing removed  till  every  man  have  gevin  his  censure  ;  after  the 
w^hiche,  the  persones  being  called,  the  faultes  (yf  any  notable 
be  found)  ar  noted,  and  the  persone  gentillie  admonished. 
In  that  last  Assemblie  all  questionis  and  dowtis,  (yf  any 
arryisc,)  should  be  resolved  without  contentioun. 

The  Ministeris  of  the  Paroche  churches  to  Landwarte,  ad- 
jacent to  everie  cheaf  toune,  and  the  Readaris,  gif  thai  have 
any  gift  of  interpretatioun,  within  sex  myles  must  assist  and 
concur  to  those  that  prophecie  within  the  townes  ;  to  the  end 
that  thei  thame  selves  may  eather  learne,  or  ellis  uthcris  may 
learne  be  thame.  And  moreover,  men  in  whome  ar  supposed 
any  giftis  to  be,  which  mycht  edifie  the  Churche  yf  thei  war 
wcall  applyed,  must  be  charged  by  the  Ministeris  and  Eldaris 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  sequele."  teris;"    the   edition  1722,  after   these 

=  In  edit.  1021,  "  not  able."  words,  adds,  "  with  a  number." 

^  In  edit.  1G21,   "  The  whole  Minis- 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  245 

to  joyiie  thame  selfis  with  that  sessiouii  and  cumpany  of  In- 
terj)retoiiris,  to  the  end  that  the  Churche  may  judge  whether 
thei  he  ahle  to  serve  to  Goddis  glorie,  and  to  the  proffeit  of 
the  Churche  in  the  vocatioun  of  Ministeris  or  not.  And  yf 
any  be  found  disobedient,  and  not  willing  to  communicat  the 
giftis  and  spirituall  graces^  of  God  with  thair  brethren,  after 
sufficient  admonitioun,  discipline  must  procead  against  thame  ; 
provided  that  the  Civile  Magistrate  concur  with  the  judgement 
and  electioun  of  the  Churche.  For  no  man  may  be  permitted 
to  leave  2  as  best  pleasseth  him  within  the  Churche  of  God  ; 
but  everie  man  must  be  constrayned,  by  fraternall  admonitioun 
and  correctioun,  to  bestow  his  laubouris,  when  of  the  Churche 
thei  ar  required,  to  the  edificatioun  of  otheris. 

Wliat  day  in  the  week  is  most  convenient  for  that  exercise, 
and  what  bookes  of  the  Scripturis  salbe  most  profitable  to  be 
red,  we  refer  to  the  judgment  of  everie  particulare  Churche, 
we  meane,  to  the  wisdome  of  the  Ministeris  and  Eldaris. 


Of  Mariage.3 

Becaus  that  Mariage,  the  blessed  ordinance  of  God,  in  this 
cursed  Papistrie  hath  partlie  bene  contempned  ;  and  partlie 
hath  bene  so  infirmed,  that  the  personis  conjoyned  could  never 
be  assured  of  continewance,'^  yf  the  Bischoppis  and  Prelattis 
list  to  dissolve  the  same  ;  we  have  thocht  goode  to  schaw  oure 
judgmentis  how  such  confusioun  in  tymes  cuming  may  be 
best  avoyded. 

And  first  publict  inhibitioun  must  be  maid,  that  na  per- 
sonis under  the  power  and  obedience  of  otheris ;  suche  as 
sonnes  and  dochteris,  [and]  these  that  be  under  curatouris, 
neather  men  nor  wemen,  contract  Mariage  privelie  and  without 

•  In  edit.  1621,  "and  speciall  graces."  *  In   edit.   1621,    "assured   in   con- 
2  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  live."                          science.'" 

*  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  XIII. 


246  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

knawledge  [of  their  parents,  tutors,  or  curators,  under  whose 
power  tliey  are  for  the  time  :]l  whiche  yf  thei  do,  tlie  censure 
and  discipline  of  the  Churche  to  procead  against  thame.  Yf 
the  sone  or  dowghter,  or  other,  have  thair  hearte  tweiclied 
with  desyre  of  mariage,  thei  ar  bound  to  geve  that  honour  to 
the  parentis  that  thei  oppin  unto  thame  thair  affectioun, 
askyng  of  thame  counsall^  and  assistance,  liow  that  motioun, 
which  thei  judge  to  be  of  God,  may  be  performed.  Yf  the 
father,  freind,  or  maister,  ganestand  thair  requeast,  and  have 
na  other  cans  then  the  commoun  sorte  of  men  have ;  to  wit, 
lack  of  guidis,  or  because  thei  ar  nott  so  hyght-borne  as  thai 
requyre ;  yit  must  not  the  pairteis  whose  heartis  ar  tweiclied 
mak  ony  covenant  till  farther  declaratioun  be  maid  unto 
the  Churche  of  God.  And,  thairfoir,  efter  thei  have  opened 
thair  myndis  to  thair  parentis,  or  suche  otheris  as  have  charge 
oure  thame,  thei  must  declair  it  also  to  the  Ministrie,  or  to 
the  Civile  Magistrat,  requyring  thame  to  travaill  with  thair 
parentis  for  thair  consent,  whiche  to  do  thei  ar  bound.  And 
yf  thei,  to  wit,  the  Magistrate  or  Ministeris,  fynd  no  just  caus 
why  the  mariage  requyred  may  not  be  fulfilled,  then  efter 
sufficient  admonitioun  to  the  father,  freind,  maister,  or  supe- 
riour,  that  none  of  thame  resist  the  work  of  God,  the  Ministe- 
rie  or  Magistrat  may  enter  in  the  place  of  the  parent,  and  by 
consenting  to  thair  just  requeastis  may  admit  thame  to 
mariage  :  for  the  work  of  God  aught  not  to  be  hyndered  by 
the  corrupt  afiectionis  of  worldlie  men.  The  work  of  God  we 
call,  Avhen  two  heartis  (without  filthynes  bcfoir  committit)  ar 
so  joyned,  that  boyth  rcquyre  and  ar  content  to  live  together 
in  that  holy  band  of  Matrimonye. 

Yf  any  man  commit  fornicatioun  with  the  woman  whome 
he  requyred  in  mariage,  then  do  boyth  lose  this  foirsaid  bene- 
fite  alsweall  of  the  Churche  as  of  the  Magistrat ;  for  neather 

'"The  words  within  brackets  omitted  -  In  edit.  I6:il,  "  asking  their  coun- 

iii  MS.  ];Vj6,  are  supplied  from  cd.  K).;!.       sell." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  247 

of  boytli  aught  to  be  iiitercessouris  or  advocattis  for  fjltliie 
fornicatours.  But  the  father,  or  neyrest  freind,  whose  dowgliter 
being  a  virgine  is  deflored,  hatli  power  by  the  law  of  God  to 
compell  the  man  that  did  that  injurie  to  marie  his  dowghtter ; 
or  yf  the  father  will  not  accept  him  be  reassone  of  his  offense, 
then  may  he  requyre  the  dote^  of  his  dowghter  ;  whiche  yf  the 
offendar  be  nott  able  to  pay,  then  aught  the  Civile  Magistrat 
to  punishe  his  body  by  some  other  punishement. 

And  becaus  that  fornicatioun,  huredome,  and  advdterye,  ar 
synnes  most  commoun  in  this  Realme,  We  requyre  of  your 
Honouris,  in  the  name  of  the  Eternall  God,  that  severe 
punishement,  according  as  God  hath  commanded,  be  executed 
against  suche  wicked  offendaris;2  for  we  doubt  not  but  suclie 
enorme  crymes^  oppenlie  committed,  provoketh  the  wraytli  of 
God,  as  the  A]30stle  speaketh,  not  onlie  upoun  the  offendaris, 
but  also  upoun  suche  places  as  Avhair,  without  punishement, 
thei  ar  committed. 

But  to  returne  to  oure  formar  purpose  :  Mariage  owght  not  ^o  t 
to  be  contracted  amongis  personis  that  have  no  electioun  for  ma 
lack  of  understanding  ;  and  thairfoir  we  affirm,  that  bairns  and 
infantis  can  nocht  lauchfuUie  be  mareid  in  thair  minor  aige, 
to  wit,  the  man  within  fourtene  yeiris  of  aige,  and  the  woman 
within  twelf  yearis,  at  the  least.  Whiche  yf  it  chance  any  to 
have  bene,  and  have  keapt  thair  bodyis  always  separat,  we  can 
not  judge  tliame  bound  to  adhear  as  man  and  wyifT,  by  reas- 
sone of  that  promeis,  which  in  Goddis  presence  was  no  pro- 
meise  at  all.  But  yf  in  the  yearis  of  judgment  thai  have  em- 
brased  the  one  the  other,  then  be  reassone  of  thair  last  consent, 
thai  have  ratifeid  that  which  otheris  did  promeise  for  thamc 
in  thair  youth-head.'^ 

In  a  Reformed  Churche,  Mariage  ought  nott  to  be  sccreatlio 

'  la  edit.  1621,  "  the  dowrie."  *  In  edit.  172:i,  after  •'  iu  their  yoiUh- 

^  In  edit.  1621,  '-wicked  contemners."  head,"  is  added,  '•  and  are  to  be  held  a? 

^  In  edit.  1621,  ••  such  enormities  and  married  persons." 
orymes." 


REIS 
THE 
HEAD  OF 
RIACE. 


248  THE  BITKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

used,  but  in  open  face  and  puLlict  audience  of  the  Cliuvclie : 
And  for  avoyding  of  dangearis,  expedient  it  is  tliat  the  bannes 
be  publictlie  proclamed  tlire  Sundayi^  (onles  the  persones  be 
[so]  knawin,  that  no  suspitioun  of  dangear  may  arise,  and 
then  may  the  bannes  ^  be  schortned  at  the  discretioun  of  the 
Ministerie.)  But  in  no  wyse  can  Ave  admitt  Mariage  to  be 
used  secreatlie,  how  honorable  that  ever  the  personis  be. 
The  Sunday  befoir  sermon  we  think  most  convenient  2  for 
mariage,  and  it  to  be  used  no  day  ellis  without  the  consent  oX 
the  hoill  Ministerie. 

Mariage  once  lauchfullie  contracted,  may  not  be  dissolved 
at  manis  pleasour,  as  oure  maister  Christ  Jesus  doeth  witnesse, 
onles  adulterie  be  committed  ;  which  being  sufficientlie  proven 
in  presence  of  the  Civil  Magistrat,  the  innocent  (yf  thei  so 
requyre)  ought  to  be  pronunced  frie,  and  the  offendar  aught 
to  suiFer  the  death  as  God  hath  commanded.  Yf  the  Civile 
sweard  foolischelie  spair  the  lyeff  of  the  offendar,  yit  may  not 
the  Churche  be  negligent  in  thair  office,  which  is  to  excommu- 
nicat  the  v/icked,  and  to  repute  thame  as  dead  memberis,  and 
to  pronunce  the  innocent  partie  to  be  at  freedome,  be  thei 
never  so  honourabile  befoir  the  warld.  Yf  the  lyfe  be  spared 
(as  it  ought  not  to  be)  to  the  offendaris,  and  gif  tlie  fructis  of 
repentance  of  long  tyme  appeir  in  thame,  and  gif  thai  earnest- 
lie  desyre  to  be  reconceilled  with  the  Churche,  we  judge  that 
thai  may  be  receaved  to  participatioun  of  the  Sacramentis, 
and  of  the  other  benefits  of  the  Churche,  (for  we  Avoid  not  that 
the  Churche  sould  hold  those  excommunicat  Avhom  God  ab- 
solved, that  is,  the  Penitent.) 

Yf  any  demand,  Avhether  that  the  offendar  after  reconcilia- 
tioun  with  the  Churche,  may  not  marye  agane  ?  We  answer-, 
That  yf  thai  can  not  leve  continent,  and  yf  the  necessitie  be 
suche  as  that  thai  fear  farther  offence  of  God,  we  can  not  for- 

Un  edit.  1()21,  "  may  the  time."  *   In    edit.    1621.  "  The  Sunday  be- 

fore noon,  we  think  most  expedient." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  249 

bid  tliaine  to  use  the  remcaJy  ordayned  of  God.  Yf  the 
partie  offended,  may  be  reconcilled  to  the  offendar,  then  we 
judge  that  in  nowyse  it  shall  be  lauchfull  to  tlic  offendar  to 
mary  any  other,  except  the  partie  that  befoir  hath  bene  offend- 
ed ;  and  the  solempnizatioun  of  the  latter  mariage  must  be  in 
the  open  face  of  the  Churche  lyke  as  the  formare,  but  with- 
out proclamatioun  of  banns. 

This  we  do  offer  as  the  best  Counsall  that  God  geveth  unto 
us  in  so  doubtsome  a  case.  But  the  most  j)erfyte  Reformatioun 
war,  yf  your  Honouris  wald  give  to  God  his  honour  and  glorie, 
that  ye  wold  prefer  his  expresse  commandiment  to  your  awin 
corrupt  judgmentis,  especially  in  punisheing  of  t'hose  crymes 
whiche  he  commandeth  to  be  punished  with  death.  For  so 
should  ye  declair  your  selfis  Godis  treu  and  obedient  officiaris, 
and  your  Commoun- wealth  should  be  redd  of  innumerable 
trubles. 

We  meane  not,  that  synnes  committed  in  our  formar  blynd- 
nes,  (whiche  be  almost  buried  in  oblivioun,)  salbe  callit  agane 
to  cxaminatioun  and  judgment.  But  we  rcquyre  that  the  law 
may  now  and  heirafter  be  so  establisched  and  executed,  that 
this  ungodlie  impunitie  of  synne  have  no  place  within  this 
Realme.  For  in  the  fear  of  God  Ave  signifie  unto  your 
Honouris,  that  whosoever  persuadeth  unto  you,  that  ye  may 
pardone  whair  God  commandeth  death,  deceaveth  your  saulles,  -v  o 
and  provokes  you  to  offend  Goddis  Majestie. 


Off  BuRiALL.i 
BuRiALL  in  all  aiges  hath  bene  holden  in  estimatioun,  to 
signifie  that  the  same  body  that  was  committed  to  the  earth 
should  not  utterlie  perishe,  but  should  lyse  agane.  And  the 
same  we  wold  have  keaj)t  within  this  Realme,  provided  that 
superstitioun,  idolatrie,  and  Avhatsoever  hath  proceaded  of  a 
'  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  XIV. 


250 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 


fals  opinioun,  and  for  advantage  saik,  may  be  avoyded ;  as 
singing  of  Messe,  Placebo,  and  Dirige,  and  all  other  prayeris 
over  or  for  the  dead,  are  not  onlie  supei-fluous  '^  and  vane,  but 
also  ar  idolatrie,  and  do  repugne  to  the  plane  Scriptures  of 
God.  For,  plane  it  is,  that  everie  one  that  dyeth,  departetli 
eatlier  in  the  fayth  of  Christ  Jesus,  or  ellis  departeth  in  incre- 
dulitie :  Plane  it  is,  that  thei  that  depart  in  the  treu  fayth 
of  Christ  Jesus,  rest  frome  tliair  laubouris,  and  frome  death 
[doe]  go  to  lyef  everlasting,  as  by  oure  Maister  and  by  his 
Apostle  we  ar  taught :  But  whosoever  departe  in  unbeleve  or 
in  incredulitie,  shall  never  see  lyef,  but  the  ^\^•ayth  of  God 
abydeth  upoun  him.  And  so,  we  say  that  Prayeris  for  the 
Dead  ar  not  onlie  superfluous^  and  vane,  but  do  expreslie  re- 
pugne to  the  manifest  Scripturis  and  veritie  thairof 

For  avoyding  all  inconvenientis,^  we  judge  it  best,  that 
neather  singing  nor  reading  be  at  the  Buiyall :  for  albeit 
thingis  song  and  red  may  admonishe  some  of  the  leving  to  pre- 
pair  thame  selfis  for  death,  yit  shall  some  superstitious  and 
ignorant  personis  ever  think,'^  that  the  workis  synging  or 
reading  of  the  levying  do  and  may  proflat  the  dead.  And 
thairfoir,  we  think  most  expedient  that  the  Dead  be  convoyed 
to  the  place  of  buriall  with  some  honest  cumpany  of  the 
Churche,  Avithout  eather  singing  or  reading ;  yea,  without  all 
kynd  of  ceremony  heirtofore  used,  uther  than  that  the  dead  be 
committed  to  the  grave,  with  suche  gravitie  and  sobrietie,  as 
those  that  be  present  may  seame  to  fear  the  judgmentis  of 
God,  and  to  hate  synne,  whiche  is  the  cans  of  death. 

And  yit,  nochtwithstanding,  we  are  not  so  precise,  but 
that  we  ar  content  that  particular  kirkis  use  thame  in 
that  behalf,  wyth  the  consent  of  the  ministerie  of  the 


'  lu  erlit.  1G21,  "  which  are  not  only 
superstitious." 
'■>  In  edit.  1621,  "  superstitious." 
'  Jn  edit.  1621,  "  of  all  inconvencies.'' 


*  in  edit.  1621,  several  words  in  this 
sentence,  are  omitted. 

°  This  addition  is  not  contained  in 
the  edit.  1621,  or  any  other  copy. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  251 

same,  as  thei  will  answeir  to  god,  and  assemblie  of  the 
Universall  Kirk  gathered  within  the  Realme. 

We  ar  nott  ignorant  that  some  requyre  ane  Sermone  at  the 
Buriall,  or  elHs  some  places  of  Scripturis  to  be  red,  to  put  the 
loving  in  mynd  that  thei  ar  mortall,  and  that  lykwyise  tliei 
must  dye.  Bot  lett  those  men  understand,  that  the  sermonis 
whiclie  be  daily  maid,  serve  for  that  use  ;  whiche  yf  men  dis- 
pyse,  the  preaching  of  the^  Funerall  sermonis  shall  rather 
nureise  superstitioun  and  a  false  opinioun,  (as  befoir  is  said,) 
then  that  thei  shall  bring  suche  persones  to  any  godlie  con- 
sideratioun  of  thair  awiii  estaite.  Attour,  eather  shall  the 
Ministeris  for  the  most  parte  be  occupyed  in  preaching  Funerall 
sermonis,  or  ellis  thei  shall  have  respect  to  personis,  preaching 
.  at  the  buriall  of  the  rich  and  honorabill,  but  keaping  silence 
when  the  poore  or  dispysed  departeth  ;  and  this  with  saif 
conscience  can  not  the  Ministeris  do.  For,  seing  that  befoir 
God,  thair  is  no  respect  of  personis,  and  that  thair  ministerie 
apperteaneth  to  all  alike,  whatsoever  thei  do  to  the  riche,  in 
resjiect  of  thair  ministerie,  the  same  thei  ar  bound  to  do  to  the 
poorest  under  thair  charge. 

In  respect  of  diverse  inconvenientis,  we  think  it  neather 
scamlie  that  the  Churche  appointed  to  Preaching  and  ministra- 
tioun  of  the  Sacramentis  shalbe  maid  a  place  of  Buriall ;  but 
that  some  other  secreat  and  convenient  place,  lying  in  the 
most  free  air,  be  appointed  for  that  use ;  the  whiclie  place 
aught  to  be  weill  walled  and  fensed  about,  and  keaj)ed  for 
that  use  onlie. 


For  Reparatioun  of  Churuhes.- 
Least  that  the  Avorde  of  God,  and  ministratioun  of  the  Sacra- 
mentis, by  unseamelynes  of  the  place,  come  in  contempt,  of 

'  lu  edit.  1621,  the  words,  •■  preach-  =  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  XV. 

irifi  of  the."'  are  omitted. 


AGCRKIT  ON 


252  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

necessitie  it  is,  that  the  Churches  and  places  i  whair  the  people 
aught  publictlie  to  convene,  be  with  expeditioun  repaired  in 
durres,  wyndois,  thak,  and  with  suche  preparationis  within,  as 
ai)perteaneth,  alsweall  to  the  majestic  of  the  word^  of  God  as 
•  unto  the  ease  and  commoditie  of  the  people.  And  becaus  we 
knaw  the  slouthfulnes  of  men  in  this  behalf,  and  in  all  other 
whiche  may  not  redound  to  thair  privat  commoditie ;  strait 
charge  and  commandiment  must  be  gevin,  that  within  a  certane 
day  the  reparationis  must  be  begune,  and  within  another  day, 
to  be  affixed  by  your  Honouris,  that  thei  be  finished :  penalteis 
and  soumes  of  money  must  be  injoyned,  and  without  pardone 
taken  from  the  contempnaris. 

The  reparatioun  would  be  according  to  the  possibilitie  and 
nomber  of  the  Churche.^  Everie  Churche  must  have  durres, 
cloise  wyndoes  of  glass,  thak  or  sclait  able^  to  withhold  raine,  a 
bell  to  convocat  the  people  together,  a  pulpite,  a  basyn  for 
baptisme,  and  tables  for  the  ministratioun  of  the  Lordis  Sup- 
par,  In  greater  churches,  and  whair  the  congregatioun  is  great 
in  number,  must  reparatioun  be  maid  within  the  Churche  for 
the  quiet  and  commodious  receaving  of  the  people.  The  ex- 
pensses  to  be  lyfted  jjartlie  of  the  people,  and  partlie  of  the 
teindis,  at  the  consideratioun  of  the  Ministerie. 


For   Punishment  of  those  that  prophane  the  Sacra- 

mentis  and  do  contempt  the  word  of  god,  and  dare 

presume  to  minister  thame,  not  being  thairto  lauch- 

fullie  called.^ 

As  Sathan  hath  never  ceassed  fromc  the  begyning  to  draw 

mankynd  in  one  of  two  extremiteis,  to  wit,  that  men  sliould 

eathir  be  so  ravished  with  gazing  upoun  the  visible  creaturis, 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "that  the  Kii-k  and  ^  In  edit.   1G21,   "  according  to  the 
place."  abilitic  and  number  of  kirks." 

2  In  edit.  1621,  the  words,   "  of  the  *  In  edit.  1621,   "  tliack  able  to." 
word,"  are  omitted.  °  In  edit.  1722,  Ciiap.  XVI. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  258 

that  forgetting  the  cans  why  thai  war  ordeyned,!  thai  attri- 
buted unto  thame  a  vertew  and  power  which  God  hath  not 
granted  unto  thame ;  or  ellis  that  men  should  sa  contempne 
and  dispyse  Godis  blessed  ordinance  and  holy  institutionis,  as 
[if]  that  neathir  in  the  rycht  use  of  thame  war  thair  any 
proffeit,  neathir  yit  in  thair  prophanatioun  war  thair  any  dan- 
ger. As  this  wyese,  we  say,  Sathan  hath  blynded  the  most 
parte  of  mankynd  from  the  begyning  ;  so  doubt  we  not,  but 
that  he  will  stryve  to  continew  in  his  malice  evin  to  the  end. 
Oure  eyis  have  seane,  and  presentlie  do  see  the  experience  of 
the  one  and  of  the  other.  What  was  the  opinioun  of  most 
parte  of  men,  of  the  Sacrament  of  Christis  bodie  and  bloode, 
during  the  darknes  of  superstitioun,  is  not  unknawin,  how  it 
was  gazed  upoun,  kneeled  unto,  borne  in  processioun,  and 
finallie  wirschipped  and  honored  as  Christ  Jesus  him  solve. 
And  so  long  as  Sathan  mycht  thane  reteane  man  in  that 
damnable  idolatrie,  he  was  quyet,  as  one  that  possessed  his 
kingdome  of  darknes  peceablie.  But  since  that  it  hath  pleas- 
ed the  mercyis  of  God  to  reveill  unto  the  unthankfull  world 
the  lyght  of  his  wourd,  the  lycht  use  and  administratioun  of 
his  sacramentis,  he  assayis  man  upoun  the  contrarie  parte. 
For  whair,  (not  lang  ago,)  men  stude  in  suche  admiratioun  of 
that  idoll  in  the  Messe,  that  none  durst  presume  to  have  said 
the  Messe,  but  the  foirsworne  schavin  sorte,  the  beastis  marked 
men  some  dar  now  be  so  bald  ;  as  without  all  convocatioun,  to 
minister,  (as  thai  suppoise,)  the  treu  sacramentis  in  open  as- 
semblies ;  and  some  idiottis,  (yit  more  wickedlie  and  more 
imprudentlie,)  dar  counterfait  in  thair  housses  that  which  the 
treu  Ministeris  do  in  the  open  congregatioun  ;  thei  presume, 
(we  say,)  to  do  it  in  housses  without  reverence,  witliout  word 
preached,  and  witliout  Minister,  other  then  of  companioun  to 
companioun.2     This  contempt  proceideth,  no  doubt,  from  the 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  cause  wherefore  '  The  last  six  words  are  omitted  in 

they  are  ordained."  edit.  1621. 


254  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

malice  and  craft  of  that  Serpent  wlio  first  deceaved  man,  of 
purpoise  to  deface  the  glory  of  Christis  evangell,  and  to  bring 
his  blessed  sacramentis  in  a  perpetuall  contempt.  And  far- 
ther, your  Honouris  may  clearlie  see  how  proudlie  and  stub- 
burnlie  the  most  parte  despyse  the  Evangell  of  Christ  Jesus 
offered  unto  you  ;  whome  onles  that  scharplie  and  stoutlie  ye 
resist,  we  meane  alsweill  the  manifest  dispysar  as  the  pro- 
phanare  of  the  sacramentis,  ye  shall  fynd  thame  pernitious 
ennemyes  or  it  be  long.  And  thairfoir,  in  the  name  of  the 
Eternall  God,  and  of  his  Sone  Christ  Jesus,  we  require  of  your 
Honouris,  that,  without  delay,  strait  Lawis  be  maid  against 
the  one  and  the  other. 

We  dare  not  prescribe  unto  you  what  penalties  shalbe  re- 
quired of  suche  :  But  this  we  fear  not  to  affinne,  that  the  ane 
and  the  other  deserve  death ;  for  yf  he  which  doeth  falsefye  the 
OPTIMA  COL-  the  seall,  subscriptioun,  or  coynzie  of  a  king  is  adjudged  wor- 
thy of  death  ;  what  shall  we  think  of  him  who  planlie  doeth 
falsefye  the  Seallis  of  Christ  Jesus,  Prince  of  the  Kingis  of  the 
earth  ?  Yf  Darius  pronunced,  that  a  bank  i  should  be  taken 
frome  the  house  of  that  man,  and  he  him  self  hinged  upoun 
it,  that  durst  attempt  to  hinder  the  re-edificatioun^  of  the 
materiall  Temple,  What  shall  we  say  of  those  that  contemp- 
teouslie  blaspheme  God,  and  manifestlie  hynder  the  [spirituall] 
Temple  of  God,  which  is  the  saullis  and  bodyis  of  the  elect, 
to  be  purged  by  the  treu  preaching  of  Christ  Jesus,  from  the 
superstitioun  and  damnable  idolatrie  in  which  thai  have  bene 
of  long  plunged  and  holdin  captive  ?  Yf  ye,  (as  God  forbid,) 
declair  your  selfis  cairless  ower  the  treu  Religioun,  God  will 
not  suffer  your  negligence  unpunished.  And  thairfoir,  moir 
earnestlie  require  we,  that  strait  lawis  may  be  maid  against 
the  stubburne  contempnaris  of  Christ  Jesus,  and  against  such 
as  dare  presume  to  minister  his  Sacramentis,  not  ordourlie 
called  to  that  office,  least  that  whill  thair  be  none  found  to 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  a  balk."  «  In  edit.  1021,  "  the  re-edifying." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  255 

ganestand  impietie,  tlie  wrayth  of  God  be  kindilled  against 
the  hoill. 

The  Papisticall  Preastis  liave  neather  power  nor  authoritie 
to  minister  the  Sacramentis  of  Christ  Jesus ;  becaus  that  in 
thair  mouth  is  not  the  sermon  of  exhortatioun.  And  thairfoir, 
to  thame  most  strait  inhibitioun  be  maid,  notwithstanding 
any  usurpatioun  whiche  thai  have  had  in  tliat  behalf  in  the 
tyme  of  blyndnes  :^  It  is  neathir  the  clipping  of  thair  crownes, 
the  crossing^  of  thair  fingaris,  nor  the  blowing  of  the  dum 
doggis,  called  the  Bischopis,  neathir  yit  the  laying  on  of  thair 
handis,  that  maketli  thame  treu  Ministeris  of  Christ  Jesus. 
But  the  Spreit  of  God  inwardlie  first  moving  the  lieartis  to 
seke  ^  Christis  glorie  and  the  proifeit  of  his  Churche,  and 
thaireftir  the  nominatioun  of  the  People,  the  examinatioun  of 
the  learned,  and  publict  admissioun,  (as  befoir  is  said,)  maikis 
men  lauchfull  Ministeris  of  the  wourd  and  sacramentis.  We 
speak  of  ane  ordinarie  vocatioun,  whare  churches  ar  refomied, 
or  at  least  tend  to  reformatioun,*  and  not  of  that  which  is 
extraordinarye,  when  God  by  him  self,  and  by  his  only  power, 
rascth  up  to  the  Ministerie  such  as  best  pleaseth  his  wisdome. 


The  Conclusioun. 
Thus  have  we,  in  these  few  Headis,  oflFered  unto  youre 
Honouris  oure  judgmentis,  according  as  we  war  commanded, 
tueching  the  Reformatioun  of  thingis  which  heirtofoir  have 
altogidder  bene  abused  in  this  curssed  Papistrie.  We  doubt 
not  but  some  of  oure  Petitionis  shall  appear  strange  unto  you 
at  the  first  sight.     But  yf  your  Wisdomes  deaplie  considder, 

1  The  edit.  1722,  here  supplies,  "not       seek  to  enter  in  the  holy  Calling  for 
to  presume  upon  the  like  hereafter,  as       Christis  glorie." 

likewise  to  all  others  who  are  not  law-  *  In  edit.  1G21,  the  words  after  "  or- 

fuUy  called  to  the  holy  Ministry."  dinarie  vocation"  are  omitted  :  in  the 

2  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  greasing."  edit.  1722,  their  place  is  thus  supplied, 
'  In  edit.  1722,  is  here  added,  "  to  "  in  Kirks  reformed." 


256  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

that  we  must  ansuer  not  onlie  unto  men,  but  also  befoir  the 
throne  of  the  Et email  God,  and  of  his  Sone  Christ  Jesus,  for 
the  counsall  which  we  geve  in  this  so  grave  a  mater ;  your 
Honouris  shall  easilie  considder,  that  more  assured  it  is  till  us 
to  fall  in  the  displeasour  of  all  men  in  earth,  then  to  offend  the 
Majestie  of  God,  whose  justice  can  not  suffer  flatteraris  and 
deceitfull  Counsalouris  unpunished. 

That  we  require  the  Churche  to  be  set  at  suche  libertie, 
that  scho  neathir  be  compelled  to  fead  idill  bellyes,  neathir  yit 
to  susteane  the  tyrannye  which  heirtofoir  by  violence  hath 
bene  manteaned,  Ave  know  will  offend  many.  But  yf  we 
should  keape  silence  heirof,  we  ar  most  assured  to  offend  the 
just  and  lychtcous  God,  who  by  the  mouth  of  his  Apostle 
hath  pronunced  this  sentence  : — "  He  that  lauboretli  nott,  let 
him  not  eat."  Yf  we  in  this  behalf,  or  in  any  other,  requyre 
or  ask  any  [other]  thing,  than  by  Goddis  expressed  commandi- 
ment,  by  equitie  and  good  conscience  ye  ar  bound  to  grant, 
lett  it  be  noted,  and  after  rej)udiat ;  but  yf  we  require  no- 
thing Avhich  God  requyreth  not  also,  let  your  Honouris  tack 
head,  how  ye  ganestand  the  charge  of  him  whose  hand  and 
punishment  ye  can  not  eschape. 

Yf  blynd  affectioun  rather  lead  you  to  have  respect  to  the 
sustentatioun  of  those  your  carnall  Freindis,  who  tyrannouslie 
have  impyred  above  the  poor  flock  of  Christ  Jesus,  than  that 
the  zeall  of  Goddis  glorie  provock  and  move  you  to  sett  his 
oppressed  Churche  at  fredome  and  libertie,  we  fear  your 
scharpe  and  suddane  punischmentis,  and  that  the  glorie  and 
honour  of  tliis  interpryse  be  reserved  unto  otheris. 

And  yitt  shall  this  oure  judgment  abyd  to  the  Generationis 
following  for  a  monument  and  witness,  how  lovinglie  God 
called  you  and  this  Realmei  to  repentance,  what  counsallouris 
God  send  unto  you,  and  how  ye  [have]  used  the  same.  Yf 
obedientlie  ye  hear  God  now  calling,  wo  douI)t   not  but  he 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  this  natidn." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  257 

shall  hear  you  in  your  greatest  necessitie.  But  yf,  following 
youre  awin  corrupt  judgmentis,  ye  contempt  his  voice  and  vo- 
catioun,  we  ar  assured  that  your  formare  iniquitie,  and  pre- 
sent ingratitude,  shall  togither  crave  just  punishment  frome 
God,  who  can  not  long  delay  to  execute  his  most  just  judg- 
mentis, when,  after  many  offenses  and  long  blyndness,  grace 
and  mercy  offered  is  contemptuouslie  refused. 

God  the  Father  of  oure  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  by  the  power  of 
his  Holy  Spreit,  so  illuminat  your  heartis,  that  ye  may  clearlie 
see  what  is  pleasing  and  acceptable  in  his  presence ;  so  bow 
the  same  till  his  obedience,  that  ye  may  prefer  his  reveilled 
Avill  to  your  awin  affection  is ;  and  so  strengthen  you  by  the 
sjjreit  of  fortitude,  that  boldlie  ye  may  punishe  vyce,  and 
maintene  virtue  within  this  Realme,  to  the  praise  and  glorie  of 
his  Holy  name ;  to  the  conforte  and  assurance  of  your  awin 
Consciences,  and  to  the  consolatioun  and  good  example  of  the 
Posteriteis  following.     Amen.     So  be  it. 

By  your  Honouris 

Most  humble  Servitouris,  etc. 
Frome  Edinburgh, 
The  20of  Mciij  1560. 

Act  of  Secreit  Counsall,  xxvii  Januarii,  Anno  &c.,  lx°.i 
We,  quhilkis  hes  subscryvit  thir  Presentis,  haveand  avysit 
with  the  Articles  heirin  specifeit,  as  is  abone  mentionat  fra 
the  begynning.  of  this  Book,  thinkis  the  samin  good,  and  con- 
forme  to  Goddis  Word  in  all  pointis  ;  confomie  to  the  Notes 
and  Additionis  thairto  eikit ;  and  promittis  to  sett  the  samiu 
fordwarte  at  the  uttermost  of  oure  poweris :  Providing  that 
the  Bischoppis,  Abbotis,  Priouris,  and  otheris  Prelattis  and 
beneficit  men,  quhilkis  ellis  hes  adjonit  thame  to  us,  bruik  the 

1  That  is,  the  27th  (in  edit.  1621,  the  did  not  begin  at  that  time  till  the  2oth 
17th)  of  January  1560-1;  as  the  year      of  March. 

VOL.  IL  R 


258  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

reveneues  of  thair  benefices  during  tliair  liftymes,  tliei  sus- 
teanand  and  uplialdand  the  Ministerie  and  Ministeris,  as  is 
herein  specifeit,  for  preaching  of  the  Word,  and  ministering  of 
the  Sacramentis  of  God. 

(Sic  Suhscrihitur.) 
James.  ^ 

James  Hammylton.2  Glencarn.^s 

Ar".  Ergyll.3  Uchiltrie.  ^'^ 

James  Stewart.^  Sanquhar.  20 

RoTHESs.^     James  Haliburton.^  Sanctjohns.  ^^ 

R.  Boyd."  William  Lord  Hay.'^^^ 

ALEX^  Campbell,  Dene  of  Drumlangrike.23 

MURRAY.8  CoNYGHAMHEID.2^ 

ViLLIAM  OF  CdLROS.9  JoHNE  MaXWELL.^^ 

Maister  ALEX^  GoRDouN.it>  George  Fentoun  of 

Bargany  Younger.11  that  Ilk.^^ 

Andro  Ker  of  Fawdonsyd^^  Lochinware.27 

T.  Scott  of  Hanyng.'^^ 

Johne  Lokhart  of  Bar  I'M 

George  Corrie  of  KehvodM 

Johne  Schaw  of  Halie}^ 

Andro  Hammyltoun  of  LethameM 


*  James  Duke  of  Chattelherault,  Regent  and  Governor  of  Scotland,  after  the 
death  of  James  the  Fifth :  see  vol.  i.  pp.  95,  242.  In  edit.  1621,  his  name  is 
omitted  in  the  above  list. 

^  James  tliird  Eai-1  of  Arran,  and  eldest  son  of  the  Duke  of  Chattelherault. 
Owing  to  his  declared  incapacity,  at  his  father's  death,  in  1575,  the  family  estates 
devolved  upon  Lord  John  Hamilton  the  second  son  ;  but  the  Earl  survived  till  1609. 

^  Archibald  fifth  Earl  of  Argyle,  succeeded  to  the  title  in  1558.  He  at  first  ad- 
hered to  the  Queen  Regent,  but  soon  joined  the  Lords  of  the  Congregation,  and 
continued  to  act  along  with  the  Earl  of  Murray,  until  1568,  when  he  went  over  to 
the  Queen's  party,  without  materially  aiding  her  cause.  When  the  Earl  of  Mor- 
ton was  chosen  Regent,  the  Earl  of  Argyle  succeeded  him  as  Lord  Chancellor, 
17th  January  1573  ;  but  he  did  not  long  enjoy  his  honours,  having  died  suddenly 
on  the  12th  September  1573,  and  not  1575  as  stated  in  the  Peerages  and  other 
works.     (Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  p.  337,  and  Rcgis^ter  of  Confirmed  Testaments.) 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  259 

■•  Lord  James  Stewart,  Comniendator  of  St.  Andrews  and  Pittenweem ;  after- 
wards Earl  of  Murray,  and  Regent  of  Scotland. 

^  Andrew  fourth  Earl  of  Rothes,  succeeded  on  the  death  of  his  father,  No- 
vember 1558. 

"  In  the  MS.  this  name  stands  in  a  kind  of  intermediate  column  by  itself.  James 
Halyburtou,  sometimes  styled  Tutor  of  Pitcur.  He  was  a  person  of  great  activity 
and  hifluence,  and  filled  the  office  of  Provost  of  Dundee  for  the  long  period  of 
thirty-three  years.     He  died  in  1588,  aged  seventy. 

'  Robert,  fourth  Lord  Boyd,  had  a  pension  from  England,  and  was  concerned  in 
most  of  the  jjublic  affairs  between  1560,  and  the  Raid  of  Ruthven  in  1582.  He  was 
appointed  an  Extraordinary  Lord  of  Session,  24th  October  1573.  Although  removed 
in  1578,  he  was  subsequently  restored,  and  died  3d  January  1590,  in  the  72d  year 
of  his  age.     (Brunton  &  Haig's  Senators  of  the  College  of  Justice,  p.  155.) 

*  Alexander  Campbell,  Dean  of  Murray,  was  the  third  son  of  Colin,  third  Earl 
of  Argyle.  In  the  edit.  1621,  the  name  Dean  of  Murray  has  been  separated  from 
Alexander  Campbell,  as  if  two  distinct  persons.  Alexander  Dunbar,  Sub-Chantor 
of  Murray,  was  appointed  a  Lord  of  Session,  16tli  August  1560,  as  he  appears 
in  the  Books  of  Sederunt,  on  the  26th  June  1566,  under  the  designation  of  Dean  of 
Murray,  we  may  presume  that  Campbell  was  then  dead. 

^  William  Colville,  Commendator  of  Culross  :  see  note  in  the  Appendix  to  the 
present  volume. 

'"  Alexander  Gordon,  titular  Archbishop  of  Athens,  was  second  son  of  John, 
Master  of  Huntly,  by  Jane,  natural  daughter  of  King  James  the  Fourth.  He  was 
Bishop  of  the  Isles,  in  1553,  and  Abbot  of  Inchaffray  and  Icolmkill ;  and  was 
translated  to  the  See  of  Galloway,  after  the  death  of  Andrew  Durie,  in  Septem- 
ber 1558.  He  joined  the  Reformers,  and  still  enjoyed  his  titles;  but  he  was  not 
allowed  to  exercise  his  functions  as  a  bishop,  nor  was  his  petition  acceded  to,  to 
be  appointed  visitor  of  the  churches  within  his  diocese  of  GalloAvay.  He  died  11th 
November  1575.     (Register  of  Confirmed  Testaments.) 

11  Thomas  Kennedy,  of  Bargany,  (in  the  parish  of  Dailly,  Ayrshire,)  the  son  of 
Sir  Thomas  Kennedy.  In  1540,  he  is  styled  "  Apparent  of  Bargany;"  and  died 
in  June  1564.     (Register  of  Confirmed  Testaments,  26th  April  1580.) 

1-  Andi-ew,  (frequently  by  mistake  called  Sir  Andrew)  Ker  of  Faldonsyde,  in 
Selkirkshire.  He  was  concerned  in  Riccio's  murder,  and  was  at  the  battle  of 
Langsyde  in  1568.  He  had  from  Parliament  a  ratification  of  the  third  part  of  the 
lands  and  barony  of  Bolton  in  1581.  He  married,  for  his  second  wife,  Margaret 
Stewart,  daughter  of  Lord  Ochiltree,  and  widow  of  John  Knox.  He  died  about 
the  year  1598. 

"  Thomas  Scott  of  Hayning,  in  Selkirkshire.  A  Charter  of  Confirmation,  "  quon- 
dam Thomoe  Scott  de  Hanyng,"  of  the  lands  of  Eleistoun,  in  the  shire  of  Roxburgh, 
dated  23d  March  1575-6,  shows  that  he  was  dead  in  1576. 

"  John  Lockhart  of  Bar,  in  the  parish  of  Galston,  Ayrshire.  He  died  before  10th 
May  1575,  when  his  son  John  Lockhart  of  Bar  was  served  his  heir.  (Retours, 
Ayr,  No.  13.) 

15  In  the  edit.  1621,  this  name  is  omitted.  George  Corrie  of  Kelwood  was  served 
heir  of  his  father,  Thomas  Corrie  of  Kelwood,  "  qui  obiit  sub  Majestatis  vexillo  in 
bello  de  Fausyde,"  25th  October  1547.  (Retours,  Ayr,  No.  2.)  He  was  alive  in 
December  1580.     (Pitcairn's  Crim.  Trials,  vol.  i.  p.  89.) 

"  John  Schaw  of  Haly,  near  Largs,  in  Ayrshire. 


260  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

"  Andrew  Hamilton  of  Lethame,  in  Lanarkshire.  He  was  Captain  of  the  Castle 
of  Dumbarton  in  1546.  He  went  to  France  on  a  mission  in  1550,  and  had  a  char- 
ter under  the  Great  Seal  of  the  lands  of  Drumcross,  in  the  county  of  Linlithgow  in 
1552.  He  was  at  the  Raid  of  Stirling  in  1571,  and  died  before  1585.  (Anderson's 
House  of  Hamilton,  pp.  320,  469.) 

"  Alexander  Earl  of  Glencairn :  see  vol.  i.  p.  72.  He  died  in  the  year  1574. 
(Register  of  Confirmed  Testaments.) 

1®  Andrew,  second  Lord  Stewart,  of  Ochiltree  or  Uchiltree,  in  Ayrshire.  He  suc- 
ceeded to  the  title  in  1548,  and  survived  till  near  the  close  of  the  16th  century. 

-°  Edward  Lord  Crichton  of  Sanquhar,  ancestor  of  the  Earls  of  Dumfi-ies  (now 
represented  by  the  Marquis  of  Bute.)  He  died  23d  May  1569,  and  was  succeeded 
by  "  his  son  and  air,  Ptobert,  now  Lord  Creichton,"  who  was  then  a  minor.  (Re- 
gister of  Confirmed  Testaments,  8th  Mai-ch  1573-4.) 

^  Sir  James  Sandilands,  Lord  St.  John,  and  afterwards  Lord  Torphichen  :  see 
vol.  i.  p.  301 ;  vol.  ii.  p.  125. 

^  William  fifth  Lord  Hay  of  Yester,  was  served  heir  of  his  father  in  1559.  He 
died  in  August  1576. 

2^  Sir  James  Douglas  of  Drumlanrig,  ancestor  of  the  Marquesses  of  Queensberry, 
was  Knighted  by  the  Governor  of  Scotland  in  1553,  and  appointed  AYarden  of  the 
West  IMarches.     He  died  in  1578. 

^*  William  Cunningham  of  Cunninghamhead,  in  Ayrshire.  He  died  in  January 
1575-6.     (Register  of  Confirmed  Testaments,  17th  April  1577.) 

^  In  edit.  1621,  "  James  Maxwell."  As  John  sixth  Lord  Maxwell  was  a  minor 
at  his  father's  death  in  1552,  and  was  not  served  heir  till  May  1569,  it  was  no 
doubt  Sir  John  Maxwell  of  Terreglis,  (who  became  Lord  Herries  in  1567,)  whose 
signature  was  attached  to  the  Book  of  Discipline. 

^  George  Fenton  of  Fenton  was  probably  succeeded  by  "  John  Fenton  of  that 
Ilk,"  to  whom  the  three  daughters  of  Patrick  Quhitlaw  of  Quhitlaw  were  served 
heirs-portioners  of  their  grand-uncle  (cihamts),  30th  March  1586.  (Retours,  Had- 
dington, Nos.  399,  400,  401.)— In  MS.  1566,  the  name  is  made  "  George  Seton." 
As  Lord  Seaton  was  the  head  of  the  family,  there  could  be  no  Seaton  of  that  Ilk ; 
and  George  fifth  Lord  Seaton  never  joined  the  Reformers. 

2'  Sir  John  Gordon  of  Lochinvar,  in  Kirkcudbrightshire,  the  ancestor  of  the  Earls 
of  Kenmure.  In  1555,  he  was  appointed  Justiciary  of  the  Lordship  of  Galloway. 
He  survived  till  the  year  1004.     (Douglas  and  Wood's  Peerage,  vol.  ii.  p.  25.) 


According  to  Knox,  (see  page  129,)  who  is  followed  by  Calderwood,  Petrie,  Spotis- 
wood,  and  other  writers,  in  addition  to  the  above  Subscribers  to  the  Book  of  Dis- 
cipline, there  were, 

William,  Earl  Marischall. 

John,  Earl  of  Menteith. 

Jajiks,  Earl  of  Morton,  (afterwards  Regent.) 

JouN,  Lord  Lindesay  of  the  Byris. 

