Cibmrjp  of t:he  theological  ^mimry 

PRINCETON    .   NEW  JERSEY 


PRESENTED  BY 

The  Rev.  John  M.  Krebs 
Class  of  1832 


BX  8915  .K569  v. 2 

Knox,  John,  ca.  151A-1572. 

The  works  of  John  Knox 


WORKS 


Oi' 


JOHN    KNOX. 


^ 


THE  WODROW  SOCIETY, 

Ikstituted  Mat  1841, 

FOR  THE  PUBLICATION  OF  THE  WORKS  OF  THE  FATHERS  AND  EARLY 
WRITERS  OF  THE  REFORMED  CHURCH  OF  SCOTLAND. 


THE  WORKS 


OF 


JOHN    KNOX; 


COLLECTED  AND  EDITED 


BY   DAVID  LAING. 


VOLUME   SECOND. 


EDINBURGH: 

HINTED   Foil  THE  WODROW  SOCIETY, 

MDCCCXLVIir. 


"  At)     SCOTOS      TRANSEUXTIBUS      I'RIMUS      OCOURRIT      MaGNUS      ILLE      JOANNES 
CNOXUS  ;     QtTEM      SI      SCOTORUM      IN      VERO     DeI      CULTU      INSTAIIRANDO,       VELUT 

apostoiilim  qoeotjam  dixero,  bixisse  me  quod  res  est  existimabo." 

Theou.  Beza. 


THE  HISTORY 


OF  THE 


REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND 


BY  JOHN  KNOX; 


EDITED  BY  DAVID  LAING. 


VOLUME  FIRST. 


EDINBURGH: 
PRINTED  FOR  THE  WODROW  SOCIETY. 

MDCCCXLVI. 


"  Ad  Scotos  transeuntibus  primus  occuerit  Magnus  ille  JOANNES 
CNOXUS ;  QUBM  SI  Scotorum  in  vero  Dei  cultu  instaurando,  velut 
Aposxolum  quendam  dixero,  dixisse  me  quod  res  est  existimabo." — 

Theod.  Beza. 


THE  HISTORY 


OF  THE 


REFOPiMATION  U  SCOTLAND 


BY  JOHN  KNOX; 


EDITED   BY   DAVID   lAING. 


VOLUME  SECOND. 


EDINBURGH: 

PRINTED  FOR  THE  WODROW  SOCIETY. 

MDCCCXLVIII. 


"  Ad   Scotos    teansebntibus    PRmrs    occukrit    Maghus    ille    JOANNES 
CNOXUS  ;   QUEM    SI    Scotorum    in    vero    Dei    cultu    instaurando,    velut 

ApOSTOLUM    QUENUAM   DIXERO,    DJXISSE   me    quod   EES   est   EXISTIMABO." — 

Theod.  Beza. 


;rt II   OF 


TABLE    OF    CONTENTS. 


FAOB 

Advertisement,  ........         vii 

HISTORY  OF  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 

BOOK  THIRD,  1559—1561, 1 

THE  CONFESSION  OF  FAITH,  1560,   ....         93 
THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE,  1560,       ....        183 

HISTORY  OF  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 

BOOK  FOURTH,  1561—1564, 261 

Introductory  Notice  to  Book  Fifth,         ....  465 

BOOK  FIFTH,  1564—1567, 469 

APPENDIX. 

No.  I. — Interpolations  and  Various  Readings  in  Book 
Third  and  Fourth  in  Buchanan's  editions  of 
the  History,  in  1644, 569 

Notices  op  the  Editor,  David  Buchanan,       .         .       584 

No.  II. — On  Spottiswood's  Edition  of  the  First  Book  of 

Discipline, 587 

No.  III. — Funerals  of   Mary  of  Guise,  Queen  Regent  of 

Scotland,  .......       590 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

No.  IV. — Notices  of  Joun  Black,  a  Dominican  Friak,     .  592 

No.  V. — Notices  of  David  Riccio,          ....  595 

No.  VI. — The  Abbots  of  Culross  and  Lindores  in  1560  ; 

AND  John  Lesley,  Bishop  of  Ross,       .          .          .  598 

GLOSSARY, 603 

INDEX  OF  PERSONS, 619 

INDEX  OF  PLACES, 639 


ADVERTISEMENT. 

The  present  Volume  completes  The  History  of  the 

Reformation    in  Scotland,  and   includes  Book  Fifth, 

which  was  published  under  Knox's  name  in  1644,  but  of 

which  no  manuscript  copy  has  been  discovered.     Separate 

title  pages  are  given,  along  with  a  Glossary  and  Index,  as 

the  History  forms  a  distinct  portion  of  the  Reformer's 

Works ;  and  these  two  volumes  will  probably  be  in  the 

hands  of  many  Members  of  the  Wodrow  Society  who 

may  not  be  inclined  to  procure  the  remaining  three,  or 

more  probably,  four  volumes  of  the  series,  in  the  event  of 

some  arrangement  being  made  by  which  their  publication, 

as  proposed,  shall  ultimately  be  secured. 

]).  L. 


Edinburgh,  Mai/  1848. 


THE  THIRD  BOOKE  OF  THE  PROGRESSE  OF 
TREW  RELIGIOUN  WITHIN  THE  REALME 
OF  SCOTLAND. 


VOL.  II. 


After  this  our  dolorous  departing  from  Edinburgh,!  the 
fuiye  and  the  raige  of  the  Frenche  increassed  ;  for  then  durst 
neither  man  nor  woman  that  professed  Christ  Jesus  within 
that  toune  be  sejn.  The  housses  of  the  most  honest  men 
war  gevin  by  the  Queue  to  Frenchemen  for  a  parte  of  thair 
reward.  The  Erie  Bothwell,  by  sound  of  tinimpett,  proclaimed 
the  Erie  of  Arraue  trajtour,^  with  other  dispjtefuU  wourdes  : 
whiche  all  was  done  for  the  pleasure  and  by  the  suggestioun 
of  the  Quene  Regent,^  who  then  thought  the  battell  was  won 
without  farther  resistance.  Great  practising  sche  maid  for 
obteaneing  of  the  Castell  of  Edinburgh.  The  Frenche  maid 
thair  faggottis,  with  other  preparationis,  to  assault  the  said 
Castell  either  by  force,  or  ellis  by  treassone.  But  God 
WTOught  so  potentlie  with  the  Capitane,  the  Lord  Erskin,*  at 


yOTA.— 
HEBBUR!T 
AGAINST 
THE  EELE 
OF  AREAXE 
BEI>'G  INNO- 
CENT. 


'  As  related  in  vol.  i.  page  462,  the 
Lords  of  the  Congi-egation,  after  the 
unfortunate  skh'mish  at  Restalrig,  on 
the  6th  November  1559,  retreated  to 
Linlithgow  that  night,  leaving  theii* 
artillei-y  on  the  streets  of  Edinbui-gh. 
See  also  Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  pp.  55, 
271 ;  and  Sadler's  State  Papers,  vol.  i. 
p.  554.  Sadler  describes  the  Pro- 
testants as  retiring  fi-om  Edinburgh, 
"  bytuene  one  and  two  a  clocke  in  the 
mornyng;"  and  adds,  "And  the  Quene 
Dowager  and  her  French  be  now  in 
Edynburgh  in  gi-et  tryumphe,  the  most 
parte  of  the  substanciall  men  of  the 
same  being  fled  out  of  the  towne,  with 
then-  hole  families." 

-  In  a  letter  to  Sadler,  dated  Stirling, 
11th  November  1559,  Thomas  Randall 
says.  "  Upon  Thursdaye  last  (9th  No- 


vember) the  Erie  of  Arraine  received  a 
cartell  of  defiance  from  the  Erie  of 
Bothwell,  requyering  of  him  the  com- 
bate ;  the  copie  whereof,  and  aunswer 
to  the  same,  I  will  bring  with  me." 
(State  Papers,  vol.  i.  p.  565.) 

^  The  Earl  of  Bothwell  had  previously 
joined  himself  to  the  party  of  the  Queen 
Regent.  According  to  the  Treasurer's 
Account,  on  the  29th  October  1558,  a 
messenger  was  sent  with  "  clois  writ^ 
tingis  of  the  Quene  to  the  Erie  Bothwell, 
Lieutennant."  On  the  12th  January 
1558-9,  James  Earl  of  Bothwell  received 
£100,  "  be  the  Queen's  precept,  for  keip- 
ing  of  the  Castell  of  Armitage,  from  the 
15th  day  of  September  to  the  15th  of 
Januar  instant  last  bipast." 

*  John  Lord  Erskine,  afterwards  Earl 
of  Mar :  see  vol.  i.  p.  416. 


4  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

that  tyme,  that  neither  the  Quene  hy  flatteiye,  nor  the 
Frenche  by  treassoun  prevailled.  Advertisementis  with  all 
diligence  past  to  the  Duck  of  Gwise,  who  then  was  King  of 
France  (as  concerneing  power  to  command l),  requiring  him 
then  to  make  expeditioun,  yf  he  desyred  the  full  conquest 
of  Scotland.  Wlio  delayed  no  tyme,  but  with  a  new  annye 
send  away  his  brother,  Marquis  Dalbuf,  and  in  his  company 
the  Martikis,^  promissing,  that  he  himself  should  follow.  But 
the  rychteouse  God,  who  in  mercy  looketli  upon  the  afflictioun 
of  those  that  unfeanedlye  sob  unto  him,  fought  for  us  by  his 
THEDROAVN-  awiu  out-strctchcd  arme ;  for,  upon  one  nycht,  upon  the 
FEENCHE.  coast  of  Holand,  war  drowned  of  thame  aughttein  ensenzeis, 
so  that  onlye  rested  the  schip  in  the  whiche  war  the  two 
principallis  foirsaid,  with  thair  Ladyis ;  who,  violentlie  dreven 
back  agane  to  Deape,^  war  compelled  to  confesse,  That  God 
fawglit  for  the  defence  of  Scotland. 

Frome  England  returned  Robert  Melven,^  who  past  in  cum- 
panye  to  London  with  the  Secreatarie,^  a  lytill  befoir  Christen- 

*  That  is,  Francis  the  Second,  the  vertised  that  Martiges  is  dryven  by 
young  King  of  France,  was  wholly  go-  wether  into  Denmark;  and  one  thousand 
verned  by  the  Duke  of  Guyse,  brother  Frenchmen  lost  by  tempest  in  Zeland; 
of  the  Queen  Regent  of  Scotland.  so  as  it  shuld  seme  that  God  is  pleased 

*  In  MS.  G,  "  ^larqiiis  D'Albufe,  and  the  French  purposees  should  not  so 
his  cumpanie  the  Maritickis."  In  the  speedelybe  accomplished,  as  their  mean- 
MS.  of  1-566,  the  name  Avas  originally  ing  is." — (Burghley  State  Papers,  by 
written    "  Marquis    D'Omall,"   but   is  Haynes,  p.  22.3.) 

con-ected  to  "  Dalbul,"  or  "  Dalbuf." —  ■*  Robert  Melville  was  the  second  son 

Ren6  de  Loraine,  Marquis  of  D'Albeuf,  of  Sir  .John  Melville  of  Raith  (whose 

was  the  seventh  son  of  Claude  de  Lor-  death  is  recorded  by  Knox,  vol.  i.  p.  284.) 

aine,  first  Duke  de  Guyse.   He  was  born  ^   William  Maitland   of   Lethington, 

in  1-5.36,  and  died  in  1566.     (Anselme,  younger,  was  appointed  by  the  Queen 

Hist.  Geneal.,  vol.  iii.  p.  492.)     He  was  Regent,  Secretary  of  State,  4th  Decem- 

General  of  the  French  galleys.  ber  1558.    (Reg.  Seer.  Sigilli.)    He  had 

'  The  town  of  Dieppe,  in  France. —  previously  been  employed  in  her  aflFaii-s. 

On  the  11th  January  1559-60,   Queen  In  September  1555,  the  Treasurer  paid 

Elizabeth  wrote  to  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  :  to  William  Maitland,  "  be  the  Quenis 

"  Our   shipps  have   bene   stayed  with  grace  precept,  for  his  pensioun  of  this 

contrary  wynds,  and  so  be  the  French  instant  zeir,"  £150.     On  the  11th  Feb- 

also ;"    and  referring    to  what  Knox  ruary  1557-8,  when  sent  in  embassy  to 

has   stated,   it   is  added,  "  We  be  ad-  London,  he  received  from  the  Treasurer 


1559.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  5 

messe,^  and  brouglit  unto  us  certane  Articles  to  Le  ansuered,  as 
by  the  contract  tliat  after  was  made,  more  planely  sliall  appeir. 
Wliairupon  tlie  Nobilitie  convened  at  Striveling,  and  returned 
ansuer  with  diligence.  Whairof  the  Frenche  advertisshed, 
thci  marched  to  Lynlythqw,  spoiled  the  Duckis  house,  and 
waisted  his  landis  of  Kynneill ; '''  and  thairefter  came  to  Strive- 
ling,8  whair  thei  remaned  certane  dayis:  (the  Duck,  the  Erles 
of  Ergyle  and  Glencarne,  with  thair  freindis,  passed  to 
Glaskow ;  the  Erie  of  Arrane,  and  Lord  James,  past  to 
Sanctandrois ;  for  charge  was  gevin  to  the  liaill  Nobilitie, 
Protestantis,  to  keap  thair  awin  bodyis,  till  that  God  should 
send  thame  farther  supporte.)  The  Frenche  took  purpose 
first  to  assault  Fyffe ;  for  at  it  was  thair  great  indigna- 
tioun.  Tliair  purpose  was,  to  have  tacken  and  fortifyed 
the  Toune  and  Abbay,  with  the  Castell  of  Sanctandrois ; 
and  so  thei  cam  to  Culross,  after  to  Dumfenneling,  and 
then  to  Bruntyland,  whair  thei  began  to  forte  ;  but  desisted 


600  crowns  of  the  Sun,  extending  to  stounness,  is  the  property,   and  was 

£765 ;  and  on  the  30th  March  1558-9,  occasionally  used  as  tlie  family  resi- 

he  received  a  similar  sum,  when  "  pas-  dence  of  the  Dukes  of  Hamilton — The 

sand    of   Eilinburgh    to   London    and  Treasurer,  in  October  1553,  paid,  "  Be 

France,  on  the  Quenis  grace  affairis."  my  Lord  Gouernouris  commande,  to  the 

He  joined  the  Protestants  in  October  masonis  in  Kynnele,  in  drinksyluer,  at 

1559.  thelayi7igoftheijround-stane  ofthePalice 

®  Maitland  was  accompanied  by  Tho-  of  Kynnele."     The  house  has  a  beauti- 

mas  Randall,  under  the  assumed  name  ful   exposure  on  the  south  side  of  the 

of  Barnabie,  and  they  were  expected  at  Frith  of  Forth,    near  where  the  old 

Newcastle  on  the  21st  November.    (Sad-  Roman  Wall  terminated, 

ler's  State  Papers,  vol.  i.  p.  592.)   Some  «  In  the  IMS.   of  1566,  and  Yautr. 

of  Maitland's  letters  at  this  time,  also  edit.,  "  Stirveling." — It  may  be  remark- 

the   "  Instructions  for    the    Lorde   of  ed  that  several  leaves  of  the  MS.  in  this 

Lidington,  how  to  conccyve  and  directe  place  form  one  of  those  quires  or  sets 

the    sute   and    complaynte   of  us   the  which  appear  to  have  been  rewritten, 

Nobles,  Gentlemen,   and  Burgesses   of  about  1570,  with  very  little  attention  to 

Scotland,  in  this  om*  distresse,  to  the  minute  accui'acy.      Occasional  correc- 

Quenis    Majestic   of   England,"   dated  tions,  chiefly  in  orthography,  have  there- 

24th  November,  are  preserved  by  Sad-  fore  been  made  on  the  authority  of  the 

ler.     (lb.  pp.  604,  628,  686,  716.)  Glasgow  MS.,  but  few  of  such  import- 

'  Kinneill  House,  in  the  parish  of  that  ance  as  to  re(|iui-e  special  notice, 
name,    now    conjoined    with   Borrow- 


6  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

tliairfra,    and   marched  to  Kyngliorne,    iipouu   tlie   occasioun 
as  followeth. 

When  certane  knowledge  came  to  the  Erie  of  Arrane,  and 
to  Lord  James,  that  the  Frenche  war  departed  from  Striveling, 
thei  departed  also  from  Sanctandrois,  and  begane  to  assemble 
thair  forces  at  Cowper,  and  send  thair  men  of  warr  to  King- 
horne ;  l  unto  whome  thair  resorted  diverse  of  the  coast  syd,  of 
mynd  to  resist  rather  at  the  begynnyng,  than  when  thei  had 
destroyed  a  parte  of  thair  townes.  But  the  Lordis  had  gevin 
ane  expresse  commandiment,  that  thei  should  liasard  nothing 
whill  that  thei  thameselfis  war  present.  And  for  that  purpose 
was  send  unto  thame  the  Lord  Ruthven,  a  man  of  great  ex- 
perience, and  inferiour  to  few  in  stowtnes.  In  his  cumpany 
was  the  Erie  of  Sudderland,^  send  from  the  Erie  of  Huntley, 
as  he  alledged,  to  confoiie  the  Lordis  in  thair  afflictioun; 
butt  otheris  whispered,  that  his  principall  commissioun  was 
unto  the  Queue  Regent.  Howsoever  it  was,  he  was  hurte  in 
the  anue  by  the  schote  of  ane  haquebute ;  for  the  men  of 
warr,  and  the  rascall  multitude,  perceaving  certane  boatis  of 
Frenchemen  landing,  whiche  cam  from  Leyth,  purposed  to 
stoppe  thair  landing ;  and  so,  nott  considering  the  ennemeis 
that  approched  from  BiTintyland,  unadvisedlie  thei  nisshed 
doune  to  the  Petticurr,  (so  is  that  bray  be-west  Kynghome^ 

1  On  the  8th  of  January  1559-60.  parted  home,  and  shall  cause  the  Erie 
(Sadler's  State  Papei-s,  vol.  i.  p.  G84.)  Huntley  performe  his  promesse."    (Vol. 

2  .John,  tenth  Earl  of  Sutherland.  i.  p.691.)  "  The  Lorde  of  Southerland, 
The  Earl  of  Arran,  and  Lord  James  sithens  he  was  hurte,  is  becom  a  greate 
Stewart,  in  a  letter  to  Sadler,  dated  enemye  of  the  Franches."  (Letter  to  Sad- 
Dysart,  19th  January,  make  mention  ler,  4th  February  1559-60.  lb.  p.  702.) 
of  the  Earl  of  Huntly  having  sent  "  in  His  wound  did  not  prove  fatal,  but  he 
commission  to  us,  his  cousen  the  Erie  of  died  from  the  effects  of  poison,  in  1567, 
Sutherland,  to  offer  unto  us  adjunction  in  the  forty-second  year  of  his  age. 

in   our   common  actioun  in  his  name,  ^  In  MS.  G,  "  that  Bey  betuix  King- 

and  all  liis  assistance ;  and,  at  the  first  home." — The  places    here    mentioned 

skirmishe,  iiazarding  himself  too  farre,  arc  all  well  known,  stretching  along  the 

was  shott  in  the  left  arme,   and  hurt  coast  of  Fife,  on  the  north  side  of  the 

very  evill :   for  which  cause  he  is  de-  Frith  of  Forth,  to  the  west  of  Kirkaldy. 


l-WJ).  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  7 

called,)  and  at  the  sea-coast  began  the  skarmissing,  butt  never 
took  head  to  the  ennemye  that  approached  by  land,  till  that 
the  horsemen  charged  tliame  upon  thair  backis,  and  the  hole 
bandis  cam  directlie  in  thare  faces  ;  and  so  war  tliei  comj)elled 
to  geve  backis,  with  the  loss  of  sex  or  sevin  of  thair  men,  and 
with  the  takein  of  some,  amangis  whome  war  twa  that  profes- 
sed Christ  Jesus,  one  named  Paule  Lambert,^  a  Ducheman, 
and  a  Frenche  boy,  fervent  in  religioun,  and  cleane  of  lyef, 
whome,  in  despyte,  thei  hanged  ower  the  steaple.^  Thou  shall 
revenge,  0  Lord,  in  thy  appointed  tyme !  The  cans  that  in  so 
great  a  danger  thair  was  so  small  a  losse,  nixt  unto  the  mercy- 
full  providence  of  God,  was  the  suddane  cuming  of  the  Lord 
Ruthven ;  for  evin  as  our  men  had  gevin  backis,  he  and  his 
cumpany  came  to  the  head  of  the  bray,  and  did  not  onlie  stay 
the  Frenche  footemen,  but  also  some  of  ours  brack  upoun 
thair  horsemen,  and  so  re2)ulsed  thame  that  thei  did  no  farther 
hurte  to  oure  footemen.  In  that  rencontare  was  the  Erie  of 
Sudderland  foirsaid  schote  in  the  arme,  and  was  caryed  back 
to  Cowper.  The  Frenche  took  Kinghorne,  whair  they  lay,  and 
wasted  the  countrey  about,  alsweall  Papistis  as  Protestantis ; 
yea,  even  those  that  war  confidderat  with  thame,  suche  as 
SeafieldjWeames,  Balmowto,  Balwearry,  and  otlieris,^  ennemyes 
to  God  and  traytouris  to  thair  countrey.  Of  those  (we  say) 
thei  spaired  not  the  scheipe,  the  oxen,  the  kyne,  and  horse; 
and  some  say  that  thair  wyffis  and  doughtaris  gatt  favouris 
of  the  Frenche  soldiouris.  And  so  did  God  recompense  the 
Papistis  in  thair  awin  bosomes,  for,  besydis  the  defoulling  of 
thair  housses,  as  said  is,  tuo  of  thame  resavit  more  damage 
then  did  all  the  gentilmen  that  professed  the  Evangell  within 

•  In  MS.  1506,  '■  Paule  Lambett."  bended  by  the  Earl  of  Arran  and  Lord 

2   In   MS.   G,    "  over  the   stipell  of  James  Stewart  for  the  assistance  they 

Kinghorne."  had  rendered  to  the  French.  Seafieldand 

^  The  persons  here  referred  to,  with  Balmuto  are  in  the  parish  of  Kinghorn ; 

other  gentlemen  of  Fife,  are  afterwards  Wemyss   in  the  parish  of  that  name; 

noticed  bj'  Knox,  as  having  been  appre-  and  Balweary  in  that  of  Abbotshall. 


8  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

Fyff,  the  Laird  of  Grange  onlye  excepted,  whose  [housel]  of 
tlie  Grange  the  Frenche  owerthrew  by  gun  pouder. 

The  Quene  Regent,  proude  of  this  victorie,  hurst  furth  in 
hir  blasphemous  rayling,  and  said,  "  Whair  is  now  Johne  Knox 
his  God  ?  My  God  is  now  stronger  than  his,  yea  even  in 
Fyff."  Sche  posted  to  hir  freindis  in  France  news  2  that 
thousandis  of  the  heretickis  war  shxinc,  and  tlie  rest  war  fled; 
and  thairfoir  requyred,  that  some  Nobleman  of  hir  freindis 
wald  cum  and  talc  the  glorie  of  that  victorye.  Upon  that 
informatioun  was  the  Martikkis,  with  tuo  schippis,  and  sum 
Captanis  and  horse,  directed  to  cum  to  Scotlande ;  but  litill 
to  thair  awin  advantage,  as  we  sail  after  heare. 

The  Lordis  of  the  Congregatioun,  offended  at  the  folisheness 
of  the  rascall  multitude,  called  to  thameselfis  the  men  of  warr, 
and  remaned  certane  dayes  at  Cowper  ;  unto  whome  repaired 
Johne  Knox,  and,  in  our  greatest  disperatioun,  preached  unto 
us  a  most  comfortable  sermon.  His  text  was,  "  The  danger  in 
wliiche  the  disciplis  of  Christ  Jesus  stude  quhen  thei  wer  in 
the  mydest  of  the  sea,  and  Jesus  was  upon  the  mountaine." 
His  exhortatioun  was,  "  That  we  sould  not  faint,  but  that  we 
sould  still  row  aganis  these  contrarius  blastis,  till  that  Jesus 
Christ  sould  come  ;  for  (said  he,)  I  am  as  assuredlie  persuaded 
that  God  sail  delyver  us  frome  the  extreme  trowbill,  as  that  I 
am  assured  that  this  is  the  Evangell  of  Jesus  Christ  whiche  I 
preche  unto  [you]  this  day.  '  The  fourth  watche  is  nocht  yet 
come  ;'  abyde  a  lytill :  the  boit  salbe  saved,  and  Peter,  whiche 
lies  left  the  boit,  sail  not  droune.  I  am  assured,  albeit  I  can- 
not assure^  you,  be  reason  of  this  present  rage ;  God  grant  that 
yc  may  acknawlege  his  hand,  after  that  your  eyes  lies  seine 
his  delyverance." 

In  that  sennon  he  comforted  manye.     And  yit  he  offended 

1  Omitted  in  the  MS.— The  House  of  "In  MS.  1566,  "of  new." 

Grange  is  about  a  mile  to  the  north-cast  ^  In  MS.  G,  "  affirme." 

of  Kinghorn,  and  in  that  parish. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  9 

the  Erie  of  Arrane  ;  for,  in  liis  discourse  upoun  the  manifakl 
assaiiltis  that  the  Churche  of  God  had  sustained,  he  brocht 
for  exampille  the  multitude  of  strangeris  that  persewed  Jeho- 
saphat  after  that  he  had  reformed  religioun.  He  entreted  the 
fear  of  the  pepill,  yea,  and  of  the  King  himself  att  the  first; 
but  after,  he  affirmed,  that  Jehosaphat  was  stout,  and  to  de- 
clair  his  courage  in  his  God,  he  conforted  his  pepile  and  his 
souldiouris  ;  he  come  fourth  in  the  mydest  of  thame  ;  he  spak 
lovinglie  unto  thame.  He  keipit  not  himself  (said  he)  inclosed 
in  his  chalmer,  but  frequented  the  multitude,  and  rejoised 
thame  with  his  presence  and  godlie  comforte.  These,  and 
the  lyik  sentences,  took  the  said  Eric  to  be  spoken  in  re- 
proache  of  him,  because  he  keipit  himself  more  close  and  soli- 
taiy  then  many  men  wald  half  wisshed. 

After  these  thingis,  determinatioun  was  tacken  that  the 
Erie  of  Arrane,  and  Lord  James,  with  the  men  of  warr,  and 
sum  company  of  horsemen,  sould  goe  to  Dyserte,  and  tliair  lye 
to  wait  upoun  the  Frenche,  that  they  distroyed  not  the  sea- 
cost,  as  thei  intendit  utterlie  to  have  doun.  The  said  Erie, 
and  Lord  James,  did  as  thei  war  appointed,  albeit  tliair  com- 
pany Avas  very  small ;  and  yet  thei  did  so  valiantlie,  that  it 
passed  all  credabilitie :  ^  for  twentie  and  ane  dayis  thei  lay  in 
thair  clothes;  thair  buttis  never  come  of:  thei  had  skarmissing 
almost  everie  day ;  yea,  some  dayis,  from  morne  to  evin.^  The 
Frenche  war  foure  thousand  souldiouris,^  besyde  thair  favoreris 
and  factioun  of  the  countrey.  The  Lordis  war  never  togidder 
fyve  hundreth  horsmen,  with  a  hundreth  souldiouris ;  and  yitt 
thai  held  the  Frenche  so  busye,  that  for  everie  horse  thai  slew 
to  the  Congregatioun,  thai  lost  foure  Frenche  souldiouris. 

1  Several  joint  letters  written  by  the  are  preserved  among  Sir  Ralph  Sadler's 

Earl  of  Arran  and  Lord  James  Stewart,  State  Papers,  (a'oI.  i.  pp.  620,  et  seqq.) 
between  the  end  of  November  1559,  and  -  In  MS.  1566,  "  inevin." 

February  following,  communicating  in-  ^  Bishop  Lesley  estimates  their  num- 

telligence  of  their  proceedings  in  Fife,  ber  at  about  2000.— (Hist.  p.  281.) 


10  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

Willyeaume  Kirkaldie  of  Grange,  the  day  efter  tliat  his 
housse  was  cassein  doun,  send  in  his  defiance  to  Monsieur 
D'Osell,  and  unto  the  rest,  declaring,  that  to  that  hour  had  he 
used  the  Frenche  favourablie:  He  had  saved  thair  lyves,  when 
that  he  mycht  have  suifered  thair  throttis  to  have  been  cuttit ; 
hot  seing  thai  haid  usit  him  with  that  rigor,  let  thame  not 
luik  for  that  favour  in  tymes  to  cum.  And  unto  Monsieur 
D'Osell  he  said,  "  He  knew  that  he  wald  not  gett  him  in  the 
skiraiissing,  becauis  he  knew  he  was  hot  a  cowart ;  hot  it 
mycht  be  that  he  sould  quyte  him  a  commoun  ather  in  Scot- 
land, or  ellis  in  France."'  The  said  "Willyeaume  Kirkaldie, 
and  the  Maister  off  Lyndsay,  eschaped  mony  dangeris.  The 
Maister  had  his  hors  slaine  under  him  :  the  said  Willyeaume 
was  almost  betrayed  in  his  hous  at  Hawyairdis.i  But  yet 
thei  never  seased,  hot  nycht  and  day  thai  waitted  upon  the 
Frenche.  Thai  laid  thameselves  in  a  secreit  place,  with  sum 
gentilmen  befoir  the  day,  to  await  upoun  the  Frenche,  quho 
usit  commonlie  to  isch  in  companyis,  to  seik  thair  pray;  and 
so  cam  fourth  ane  Capitane  Battu,2  with  his  hundreth,  and 
begane  to  sjjoilzie ;  quhom  the  said  Maister,  now  Lord  of 
Lyndsay,3  and  the  said  Wilyeaume,  suffered,  without  declara- 
tioun  of  thameselfis,  or  of  thair  cumpany,  till  that  thai  had 
thame  more  than  a  mjle  fra  Kinghorne,  and  then  begane  the 
horsmen  to  brek;  whiche  perceved,  the  Frenche  altogither 
drew  to  a  place  callit  Glenniss"^  House,  and  maid  for  debait : 


1   Or,   Halljards,  in  the    parish  of  There  is  a  place  still  named  Gleniston, 

Auchtertool.     It  afterwards  came  into  near  Loch  Gelly,    a  few  miles    from 

the  possession  of  the  Family  of  Skene.  Kinghorn,  which  belonged  in  the  14th 

-  In  Vautr.  edit.,  &;c.,  "  Battii,"  and  and  15th  century,  to  Glen  of  Balmuto  ; 

"  Le  Battu."   Elsewhere  he  is  called  La-  the  property,  by  marriage  afterwards 

bast,  Labatt;  by  Pitscottie  "  Labattie."  came  into  the  family  of  Boswell.   There 

3  Patrick,  Master  of  Lyndesay,  sue-  was  also  Glammis  Tower,  or  Castle,  an 

ceeded  to  the  title  as  sixth  Lord  Lynde-  old  stronghold  which   stood  upon  the 

say  of  Byris,  on  the  death  of  his  father,  rising  ground  that  overlooks  the  town 

in  1563.  of  Kinghorn.   (New  Stat.  Account,  Fife, 


In  Vautr.  edit.  '•  Glcnnish  House.'       p.  804.) 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  11 

sum  tuik  tlie  housse,  and  utheris  deffended  tlie  close  and 
yaird.  The  hasard  ai)peretli  veriy  unliklie,  for  oure  men  had 
na  thing  bot  speris,  and  war  corapellit  to  lycht  iipoun  thair 
feit.  The  other  war  within  dykis ;  and  everie  man  had 
culverinis  :  the  schote  was  feirfuU  to  mony,  and  dy^'erse  war 
hourt,  amongis  quhome  war  Robert  Hamiltoun,!  and  David 
Kirkaklie,  brother  to  the  said  Laird,  quho  both  war  supposed 
to  have  bein  shiine.  The  said  Laird  perceving  men  to  faynt, 
and  begyne  to  recule,  said,  "  Fy,  lett  us  never  leive  efter  this 
day,  that  we  sail  recule  for  Frenche  schybaldis  ;"  and.  so  the 
Maister  of  Lyndsay  and  he  burst  in  at  the  yett,  and  so  utheris 
followed.  The  Maister  struik  with  his  speir  at  La  Battu,  the  slaucu- 
and  glansing  upoun  his  harness,  for  feirceness  stamered  almost  fre.vche 

.  .  .  .  CAPITAKE, 

upoun   his   kneis.      But    recovering    suddendlie,    he   fessned  "ith  his 

f  .  .        .  .  BASD. 

his  speir,  and  bare  the  Capitaine  bakward,  who,  becauis  he 
wald  not  be  takein,  was  slaine,  and  fyftie  of  his  cumpanie 
with  hym.  Those  that  war  into  the  house,  with  sum  utheris, 
war  saved,  and  [sent]  to  Dundye  to  be  kept.  This  mischance 
to  the  Frenche  men  maid  thame  to  be  more  circumspect  in 
scatring  abrod  into  the  countrie ;  and  so  the  poore  creaturis  gat 
sum  releive.  To  foumess  thame  2  of  victuelis,  was  appointed 
Capitane  Cullen,^  with  tuo  schippis,  quho  traveled  betuix  the 

1  This -was  probably  Robert  Hamilton  In  January  1550-60,  letters  had  been 

whose  name  occm-s  in  the  Treasurer's  sent  "  to  caus  all  maner  of  provision. 

Accounts  in  the  years  1561  and  1562,  sic  as  breid,  di-ink,  flesche,  fische,  and 

as  Master  of  the  Artillery.  utheris  necessaris,  to  follow  the  Frenche 

*  In  MS.  G,  "  to  fumeis  the  Frenche;"  army  in  FyfFe."  (Treasurer's  Accounts.) 

Vautr.  edit,  has,  "  to  furnish  them."  Payments  to  Captain  James  Cullen,  then 

^  The  Queen  Regent,    in  1558,   had  in  the  Queen's  service,  occur  in  the  Trea- 

made  Captain  James  Cullen  one  of  the  surer's  Accounts,  June  and  September 

keepers   of  the   town    of  Perth.     As  1566.     His  ultimate  fate  is  recorded 

noticed,  in  the  following  page,  on  the  in  the  Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  and  in 

24th  January  1559-60,  he  and  Captain  Richard  Bannatyne's  Memorials  :  hav- 

Farny,  "  being  in  ane  pink,  were  taken;  ing  been  taken  prisoner  in  the  Canon- 

and  also  ane  uther  schip  callit  the  Hoy,  gate  on  the  14th  June  1571,   he  was 

quhilkis  were  to  pas  in  Fyff,  with  mu-  tried  at   Leith,    and  beheaded  on  the 

nitioun  to  furneis  the  Frenche  Campe."  17th  July,  at  the  instigation,  it  is  said, 

(Diurnal   of  Occurrents,   pp.  55,  272.)  of  the  Earl  of  Morton. 


12 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  III. 


south  sclioire  and  Kinghorne,  for  that  purpois.  For  his  waigcs 
he  spoilzied  Kinghorne,  Kirkaldie,  and  so  muche  of  Dyserte  as 
he  mycht.  For  remedy  quhairof  war  appointit  tuo  schippis 
from  Dundye  :  Andro  Sandis,  a  stout  and  fervent  man  in  the 
cause  of  religioun,  was  the  principall.  This  same  tyme  arrived 
the  Martekis,!  quho,  without  delay,  landit  himself,  his  cofferis, 
and  the  principall  gentilmen  that  were  with  him  at  Leith,2 
leiving  the  rest  in  the  schippis  till  better  oportunitie.  But 
the  said  Andro,  and  his  companioun,  streicking  saill  and  mak- 
ing as  thai  wald  cast  anker  hard  besyde  thame,  burded  thame 
both,  and  carried  thame  to  Dundye.  In  thame  war  gotten  sum 
horse,  and  muche  harness,  Avith  sum  uther  triffilis  ;  but  of 
money  we  hard  nocht.  Heareat  the  Frenche  offended,  avowed 
the  distructioun  of  Sanctandrois  and  Dundye  ;  and  so,  upoun 


1  Count  Stephen  de  Martigues.  In 
a  letter  fi'om  Sii*  N.  Throkmorton  to 
Queen  Elizabeth,  7th  October  1559,  in 
reference  to  the  levj-ing  of  troops  to  be 
sent  from  France  to  Scotland,  he  says, 
'■'■  for  the  transporting  "whereof,  it  is 
said,  one  Monsieur  Martigues  is  ap- 
pointed chief  conducteur ;  who  is  a 
Gentleman  of  the  ELingis  chamber,  of  the 
state  of  a  Conte,  in  good  estimacioun, 
and  heretier  to  the  Duke  de  Temps  : 
and  there  be  ships  already  in  order  at 
Calais,  and  other  parts  upon  tliis  side." 
(Forbes's  State  Papers,  vol.  i.  p.  248.)  In 
another  letter,  it  is  said,  "  The  Marques 
D'Albeuf  and  Martigues  are  appointed 
to  take  shipping  at  Calice,  the  last  of 
tMs  monethe,  November,"  (lb.  p.  257  ;) 
and  letters  of  a  subsequent  date  con- 
tain other  allusions  to  their  progress. 
See  su]>ra,  page  4,  note  3.  In  a  let- 
ter to  Cecil,  written  from  Dover,  24th 
January  1559-60,  Throkmorton,  reports 
the  information  he  had  then  received, 
"  That  Martigues  hath  been  all  this 
his  missinge  tyme  in  the  North  Isles 
of  Orkeney ;  and  that  he  is  now  salfflie 
arryved    in    Scotlande,   with    his    viii 


enseignes  of  footemen,  and  well  landed 
them  all,"  with  the  exception  of  one  of 
the  ships  which  was  driven  away  by 
the  violence  of  the  weather,  before  the 
men  were  put  ashore,  and  was  supposed 
to  be  lost.  (lb.  p.  307.)  He  also  men- 
tions the  captvu-e,  at  night,  of  one  of  the 
ships,  after  all  the  stuff  had  been  taken 
out  of  it.  On  the  22d  February  he  in- 
forms the  High  Admiral  of  England,  that 
the  jMarquis  D'Elbeuf,  "  now  soddenly, 
upon  the  newes  of  the  late  overthrow  of 
fyve  ensigns  of  their  foote  in  Scotland, 
not  far  from  Inskieth,  and  a  good  person- 
age lost,  (referring  to  La  Battu,)  which 
are  lately  brought  hither,  as  I  ■\vi'ote  to 
you  before,  he  is  now  hastened  away." 
(lb.  p.  333.)  Bishop  Lesley  calls  him 
"  Monsieur  Martigo,  ane  valyant  and 
curageous  Capitane,"  and  says,  that 
upon  his  arrival  at  Leith,  in  the  month 
of  November,  "  with  ane  thousand  guid 
souldiouris,  he  was  appointed  crownell 
of  the  hoill  Frenche  army."  (Hist.  p. 
280.) 

-  Martigues  landed  at  Leith  on  the 
11th  January  1559-60,  (Diuiual  of  Oc- 
currents,  pp.  55,  272.) 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  1.3 

a  Monontlay  in  tlic  morning,  tlic  xxiij.  day  of  Januare,!  thai 
marcliit  frome  Djserte,  and  passed  the  water  of  Levein;2 
ever  keaping  the  sea-cost,  be  reassoun  of  thaire  schippis  and 
victuallis,  as  said  is.  About  tuelf  houris  thai  espyed  schippis, 
(qiihiclie  war  seine  that  morning  by  us  that  war  upoun  the 
bind,  but  war  not  knawin.)  Monsieur  D'Osell  affirmed  thame 
to  be  Frenche  schippis,  and  so  the  souldiouris  triumj^hit,  schot 
thair  volie  for  salutatioun,  and  marcliit  fordward  till  Kin- 
craige,^  fearing  no  resistance. 

But  schorte  efter,  the  Ingliche  schippis  mett  with  Capitain 
Culein,  and  seased  him  and  his  schippis,^  quhiche  maid  thame 
a  litill  to  muse.  But  suddentlie  come  Maister  Alexander 
Wood,  who  had  bein  upoun  the  Admirall,^  and  assured  Mon- 
sieur D'Osell,  that  thai  wer  Inglissmen,  and  that  thai  war  the 
foir-iyderis  of  a  gretter  number  that  followed,  who  war  send 
for  the  supporte  of  the  Congregatioun.  Thair  mycht  have 
bein  seine  the  ryveing  of  a  baird,  and  mycht  have  bein  hard 
suche  dispyte,  as  cruell  men  use  to  spew  furth  quhile  as  God*^ 
brydellis  thair  furie.  Weariness  and  the  nyclit  constrained 
thame  to  luge  thair.  Thai  sowped  skarslie,7  becaus  thair 
schippis  war  takein,  in  the  quliilk  was  thair  victuellis  and 
ordinance,    quhiche   thai   intendit  to  have  placed   in  Sanct- 

1  Monday  was  the  22d  of  January.  of  aiding  the  Protestants  against  the 

2  The  Water  of  Leven  is  a  small  river  French  auxiliaries.  In  the  Appendix 
which  comes  fi-om  the  celebrated  Loch  to  Keith's  History,  (vol.  i.  p.  408,)  are 
of  that  name,  in  Kinross-shire,  and  flows  inserted  the  "  Instructions  given  by  the 
into  the  sea  at  the  town  of  Leven  on  the  Queen's  Majesty,  to  William  Winter, 
Frith  of  Forth.  Esq.,  Master  of  the   Ordnance  of  her 

3  Kincraig  is  in  the  parish  of  lOl-  Majesty's  Admiralty,  sent  at  this  pre- 
conquhar,  and  the  headland  under  the  sent  to  the  seas  with  fourteen  armed 
name  of  Kincraig  Hill,  rises  to  the  ships  to  sail  to  Scotland,"  from  a  MS. 
height  of  about  200  feet  above  the  level  in  the  Cottonian  Library,  written  in  the 
of  the  sea,  with  a  small  bay  between  hand  of  Secretary  Cecil,  and  dated  16th 
Earlsferry  point.  December  15-59. 

*  See  note  3,  page  11.  s  In  Yautr.  edit.  "  when  God  " 
6  Mr.   Winter,  Alec- Admiral  of  the  '  in  Yautr.  edit.  "  they  supped  scars- 
English  fleet,   which   arrived    at    this  ly."      MS.    G.  reads,    •'  they  sleiped 
time  in  the  Frith  of  Forth,  in  the  view  scarsly." 


14  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

androis.  Thai  thameselvis  durst  noclit  stray  abrod  to  seake; 
and  the  Laird  of  Wcymmes  cariage,  wliiche  lykwyis  was  cum- 
rning  with  fournissing  unto  tliame,  was  stayit.  And  thairfoir, 
bytymes  in  tlie  mornyng,  thai  retired  towardis  Kinghorne,  and 
maid  more  expeditioun  in  one  day  in  returning,  then  thai  did 
in  two  in  marching  fordward. 

The  storme,  whiche  had  continnit  neire  the  space  of  a 
moneth,  brak  in  the  veriy  tyme  of  thair  reteiring,  quhairby 
mony  thocht  thei  sould  have  bein  stayit,  till  that  reasonabill 
cumpanie  mycht  have  bein  assemblit  to  have  fouchtein  thame ; 
and  for  that  purpois  did  Wilyeaume  Kirkcaldy  cut  the  Brig  of 
Toullibody.i  But  the  Frenche,  expert  aneuch  in  suche  factis, 
tuik  doun  the  roofe  of  a  parish  kirk,  and  maid  a  brig  over  the 
same  watter,^  called  Dovane  ;  and  so  thai  eschapit,  and  come 
to  Striveling,  and  syne  to  Leith.  Yit  in  thair  retourning  thai 
lost  dyverse  ;  amongis  quhonie  thair  was  one  quhois  miserable 
end  we  man  rehers.  As  the  Frenche  spoilyied  the  countiye 
in  thair  retourning,  one  capitaine  or  soldiour,  we  cannot  tell, 
bot  he  had  a  reid  cloik  and  a  gilt  morrion,^  entered  upoun  a 
poore  Avoman,    that   dwelt    in    the   Whytsyd,    and   began   to 

*   The  village   of   Tullibody,  in   the  relates,  that  they  had  to  remain  "  all 

parish  of  Alloa,  and  county  of  Clack-  that  night  in   Fotherik   Muire,   with- 

mannan.     Tullibody  House,  the  seat  of  out  either  meat  or  di'ink,   and  many 

Lord  Abercromby,  is  situated  near  the  of  them  were  slaine  or  they  could  get 

banks  of  the  Forth.    The  Church,  which  the  bridge  prepaired." 

was  partially  demolished  by  the  French  -  In  MS.  G,    "  the  said  water ;"  in 

in  January  1559-60,  is  a  building  of  Vautr.  edit.  "  the  same  water."     Evi- 

great  antiquity.     In  the  course  of  the  dently  the  Black  Devon,  a  small  river 

last  century,   it   was   new   roofed  and  wliich  rises  in  the  western  part  of  Fife, 

repaired,  to  serve  as  the  burial-place  and  falls  into  the  Forth  below  the  town 

of  the  family,    and    has   occasionally  of  Clackmannan ;  and,  therefore,  to  be 

been  used  as  a  preaching  station.     The  distinguished  from   the    Devon    itself, 

destruction  of  the  Church  of  Tullibody  which  has  its  source  on  the  northern 

is  mentioned  in   the  several   histories  declivity  of  the  Ochil  Hills,  and  after 

of  the  time.  Although  the  French  were  passing  through  Glen  Devon,  celebrated 

enabled  to  "  make   ane  sure  passage,  for  its  romantic  scenery,  falls  into  the 

baith  for  horsemen  and  footeraen,"  to  Frith  of  Forth  about  two  miles  above 

cross  the  water,  and  came  to  Stirling  Alloa, 

on  the  28th  of  that  month,  Pitscottic  '  In  IMS.  15G6,  "  morrow." 


ir>(iO.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  15 

spoyle.  The  pooro  woman  offered  unto  liini  siiclie  breid  as 
sclie  liad  rcddv  prepared.  But  lie,  in  no  wayis  tliairwitli 
content,  wald  liave  the  meill  and  a  lytill  salt  beiff  whiche 
the  poore  woman  had  to  susteine  hir  awin  lyfe,  and  the 
lyves  of  hir  poore  chylderein  ;  neather  could  tearis,  nor 
[pitifull]  wourdis,!  mittigat  the  merciles  man,  but  he  wald 
have  qiihatsoever  he  mycht  carle.  The  poore  woman  per- 
ceving  him  so  bent,  and  that  he  stoupped  doun  in  liir  tub, 
for  the  taking  foortli  of  suche  stufe.as  was  within  it,  first 
cowped  up  his  heilUs,  so  that  his  heid  went  doun;  and  thair- 
efter,  outlier^  by  hirself,  or  if  ony  uther  cumpanie  come  to 
help  hir,  but  thair  he  endit  his  unhajipie  lyfe  ;  God  so  punis- 
sing  his  crewell  hairt,  quho  could  nocht  spair  a  misserable 
woman  in  that  extremetie.  "  Let  all  suche  soldiouris  receve 
suche  rewaird,  0  Lord,  seing  that  thou  art  the  revenger  of 
the  oppressed." 

And  now,  because  that  frome  this  tyme  forward,  frequent 
mentioun  will  be  maid  of  the  comfortable  support  that  we, 
in  oure  greattest  extremetie  receved,  by  Goddis  providence, 
frome  oure  nychtbouris  of  Ingland,  we  think  it  expedient 
simply  to  declair  by  quliat  instmmentis  that  mater  was 
first  moved,  and  by  quhat  meanis  it  come  to  j)asse,  that  the 
Queue  and  Counsell  of  Ingland  schew  thameselves  sa  favor- 
able unto  us. 

As  Jhonne  Knox  had  foirwairned  us,  by  his  letteris  frome 
Geneva,  of  all  dangeris  that  he  foirsaw  [to]  ensew  on  our  en- 
teqjryse  ;  so  quhen  he  come  to  Deip,  myndfull  of  the  same, 
and  revolveing  with  himself  quhat  remedy  God  wald  pleis  to 
oifere,  he  tuike  the  boldnes  to  wreit  to  Sir  Williame  Cycill, 
Secretarie  of  Ingland,  with  quhome  the  said  Jhonne  had  bein 

'  Both  MS.  G,  and  Vaiitr.  edit,  have,  ^  In  MS.  1566,  "  hoiiyer  :"  MS.  G  has 

"  noi'  pitifull  words."  "  qiihidder ;"  and  Vautr.  "  whither." 


16  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

befoire  familiarlie  acquented,  intending  thairbyl  to  renew 
acquentence,  and  so  to  oppen  farther  of  his  mynd.2  The 
tennour  of  his  first  Letter  followis  : — 

"  The  Spreit  of  Jugement,  Wisdome,  and  Sanetificatioim, 
I  luishe  unto  you,  hy  Jesus  Chryst 
KNOX  FIRST      "  As  I  have  no  plaisour  with  lonQ-  wretting  to  trouble  you, 

LETTER  TO  ^.  "" 

SIR  wiL-  Ryeht  Honorable,  quhois  mynd  I  knaAv  to  be  oceupyed  with 
cECTLL.  most  grave  maters,^  so  mynd  I  nott  greattlie  to  lawboure  by 
long  preface  to  conciliat  your  favouris,  quhilk  I  suppoise  I 
have  allreddy,  (howsomer  rumouris  bruit  the  contrarie,)  as  it 
becummeth  one  member  of  Chrystis  body  to  have  of  ane  uther. 
The  contentis,  thaiifoire,  of  these  my  presentis  sal  be  absolved 
in  tuo  pointis.  In  the  former,  I  purpois  to  discharge,  in  breve 
wordis,  my  conscience  towardis  you :  and  in  the  uther,  som- 
quhat  must  I  speik  in  my  awin  defence,  and  in  defence  of  that 
poore  floke,  of  lait  assembled  in  the  most  godlie  Reformed 
Churche  and  citie  of  the  warld,  Geneva.  To  you.  Sir,  I  say, 
that  as  frome  God  ye  have  receavit  lyfe,  wisdome,  honoris,  and 
this  present  estait,  in  the  quhilk  now  ye  stand,  so  aucht  you 
whollie^  to  employ  the  same  to  the  advancement  of  his  glorie, 
who  onlie  is  the  author  of  lyef,  the  fountaine  of  wisdome,  and 
quho  most  assuredlie  doeth,  and  will  honour  and  gloritie  these, 
that,  with  sempill  hairtis,  do  glorifie  him  ;  quhiche,  allace, 
in  tymes  past  ye  have  nott  doun;  hot  bein  overcum  with 
comoun  iniquitie,  ye  have  followed  the  warld  in  the  way  of 
perditioun.     For  to  the  suppressing  of  Christis  trevv  Evangell, 

1  In  MS.  1566,  "in  sending."  we  need  not  be  surprised  to  find  Cecil, 

*  In  Yautr oilier 's    editions,   and  in  in  a  letter  dated  "  from  the  Court,"  on 

the  later  MSS.  (A.,  E.,  I.,  L  2,  &c.)  the  the  last  of  October,  saying  to  Sadler, 

■whole   of   this  pai-agraph  is   omitted,  '^  Of  nU  others  Knoxees  name,  it  ith^  not 

and    also   the    following    Letter  from  Goodman's,    m  most  odious  here;   and 

Knox  to  Cecil,  written  from  Dieppe  in  therefore  I  wish  no  mentioim  of  hym 

April  1559.    The  free  strain  of  the  letter  hither." — (State  Papers,  vol.  i.  p.  532.j 

was  not  calculated  to  conciliate   the  ^  In  MS.  1566,  "  grevous  matter." 

favour  of  the  English  statesman;   and  *  In  MS.  1.566,  "holylie." 


1559.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  17 

to  the  erecting  of  idolatrie,  and  to  the  schedding  of  the  blood 
of  Goddis  most  deare  childrein  have  you,  by  silence,  consented 
and  subscryvit.  This  youre  most  horrible  defectioun  frome 
the  treuth  knawin,  and  anis  professed,  hath  Grod  to  this  day 
mercifullie  spared;  yea,  to  manis  judgement,  he  hath  utterlie 
forgottin  and  pardoned  the  same.  He  hath  not  intreated  you 
as  he  hath  done  utheris,  (of  lyke  knawlege,)  quhome  in  his 
anger,  (hot  yet  most  justlie,  according  to  thair  desertis,)  he 
did  schoirtlie  stryk  efter  thair  defectioun.  But  you  (gyltie  in 
the  same  oifenses)  he  hath  fostered  and  preserved,  as  it  wer 
in  his  avvin  bosome,  during  the  tyme  of  that  most  miserable 
thraldome  of  that  professed  ennemie  of  God,  mischeivous 
Marie  :  and  now  hath  he  sett  you  at  such  liberty,  as  the  furie 
of  Goddis  ennemeis  can  nott  hurt  you,  except  that  willinglie 
aganis  his  honour,  ye  tak  pleisour  to  conspyre  with  thame. 
As  the  benefeit  quhiche  ye  hath  received  is  greit,  so  most 
Goddis  justice  requyre  of  you  a  thankfull  hairt ;  for  seing  that 
his  mercie  hath  spared  you,  being  trator  to  his  Majestie  ;  seing 
farder,  that  amanges  youre  ennemeis  he  hath  preserved  you  ; 
and,  last,  seing,  although  wourthie-'  of  hell,  he  hath  promoted 
you  to  honoris  and  dignitie,^  of  you  must  he  requyre  (becauis 
he  is  just)  earnest  repentence  for  your  former  defectioun,  a 
hairt  myndfull  of  his  mercifuU  providence,  and  a  will  so  reddy 
to  advance  his  glorie,  that  evidentlie  it  may  appeire,  that  in 

1  In  MS.  1566,  &c.,  "that  you,  wour-  give  him  leave  to  chuse  an  everlasting 

thie  of."  rather    than    a    momentary    service." 

"  Sir   William    Cecil,    the    eminent  Fi'om  the  strain   of  Knox's   letter   to 

statesman,  had  been  Secretary  of  State  him,  it  might  be  inferred  he  had  com- 

in  the  reign   of  Edward  VI.      Under  plied  more  ostensibly  with  the  Romish 

Queen  Mary,  he  acted  with  so  much  party;   but  immediately  upon   Queen 

caution,  although  known  to  be  a  Pro-  Elizabeth's    accession    to  the    throne, 

testaut,  that  he  remained  unmolested,  Cecil  became  a  Privy  Councillor,  and 

professing,  among  other  reasons,  "  that  was  reinstated  in  his  office  of  Sccre- 

he  thought  himself  bound  to  serve  God  tary.     He  was  afterwards  raised  to  the 

first,  and  next  the  Queen;  but  if  her  peerage  as  Lord  Burghley,  and  was  ap- 

service   should   put   Viim   out  of  God's  pointed  Lord  High  Treasurer.    He  died 

service,  he  hoped  her  Majesty  would  in  1598. 

VOL.  IL  B 


18  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

vaine  ye  have  nott  receved  these  graces  of  God;  to  per- 
foi-mance  quhairof,  of  necessitie  it  is,  that  carnall  wisdome  and 
wardly  policie,  (to  the  which  both,  ye  are  bruitted  too  muche 
inclyned,)  gif  place  to  Goddis  simple  and  naked  treuth. 
Verry  love  compellit  me  to  say,  that  except  the  Spreit  of  God 
purge  youre  hairt  frome  that  vennum,  which  your  eis  have 
seine  to  have  bein  distructioun  till  utheris,  that  ye  sail  nott 
lang  escaip  the  rewaird  of  dissembleris.  Call  to  mynd  quhatt 
your  earis  heard  proclamed  in  the  chapelP  of  Sanct  James, 
quhen  this  verse  of  the  first  Psalme  was  entreated,  "  Not  so, 
0  wicked,  nott  so ;  hot  as  the  dust  which  the  wind  tossed,"  etc. 
And  consider,  that  now  je  travaill  in  the  same  way  which 
then  thai  did  occuj^y ;  plainlie  to  speak,  now  are  ye  in  that 
estait  and  creddit,  in  the  whiche  ye  sail  ather  confort  the 
sorrowfull  and  afflicted  for  rychteousness  saik,  or  ellis  ye  sail 
molest  and  oppugne  the  Spreit  of  God  speaking  in  his  messin- 
geris.  The  confortares  of  the  afflicted  for  godlines  have  pro- 
mise of  confort  in  thair  greatest  necessiteis  ;  but  the  trubleris 
of  Goddis  servandis,  (how  contemned  that  ever^  thai  appeir 
befoire  the  warld,)  are  threatned  to  leive  thair  names  in  ex- 
ecratioun  to  the  posteriteis  following.  The  examples  of  the 
one  and  of  the  uther  are  nott  onlye  evident  in  Scriptures, 
bot  also  have  bein  laitlie  manifested  in  England.  And  this 
is  the  conclusioun  of  that,  whiche  to  youre  self,  I  say,  Except 
that  in  the  cause  of  Chrystis  Evangell  ye  be  found  semple, 
sincear,  fervent,  and  unfeaned,  ye  sail  taist  of  the  same  copp, 
whiche  politick  headis  have  drunkein  in  befoire  you. 

"  The  uther  poynt  concerning  my  self,  and  that  poore  flocke 
now  dispersed,  and  (as  I  heir  say)  rudelie  intreated,  is  this : 
By  dyverse  messingeris  I  have  requeisted  suche  previleges  as 
Turkis  comounlie  do  grant  to  men  of  everie  natioun;  to  wit, 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  what  you  hard  proclam-  King's   chaplains,  before  Edward  the 

ed  in  the  chapell." — This  probably  re-  Sixth. 

fers  to  a  discourse  by  Knox  himself,  ^  Jq  jyjg    1566,  "  how  contemp  that 

in  1553,  when  preaching  as  one  of  the  iver." 


].5J9.  THE  KEFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  19 

that  frcdome  soiild  be  granted  unto  me  peeeablie  to  travell 
tliroucht  England,!  to  the  end  tliat  with  greater  expeditioun 
I  mjcht  repair  towardis  my  awin  countrie,  quhilk  now  be- 
ginneth  to  thrist  for  Chrystis  treuth.  This  requeist  I  thocht 
sa  reassonable,  that  almost  I  had  entered  the  realme  without 
licence  demandit ;  and  yeit  I  understand  that  it  had  bein  so 
rejected,  that  the  solistaris  thairof  did  hardlie  eschaip  emprese- 
ment.'^  And  some  of  that  flocke  I  heir  to  be  so  extremelie 
handled,  that  those  that  most  cruellie  have  shed  the  blood 
of  Goddis  most  deare  childrein,  find  this  day  amangis  you 
greattar  favouris  then  thai  do.  Allace,  this  appereth  muche 
to  repugne  to  Christiane  cheritie  ;  for  quhatsoevir  hath  bein 
my  offence,  this  I  feare  nott  to  affirme  in  thair  causses,  that  if 
ony  whiche  have  suffered  exyle  in  these  most  dolorus  dayis 
of  persecutioun,  deserve  prais  and  commendatioun,  for  peace, 
Concorde,  sober  and  quiet  liveing,  it  is  thei.  And  as  for  me, 
how  criminall  that  ever  I  be  in  Goddis  presence,  for  the 
multitude  of  my  synnes ;  yet  befoire  his  justice-seat  I  have  a 
testimonie  of  guid  conscience,  that  sence  my  first  acquentance 
with  England,  willinglie  I  never  offended  persone  within  it, 
(except  in  oppin  chayre  to  reprove  that  w^hiclie  God  condem- 

1  This  desire  of  Knox,  repeated  so  their  favoui*  to  Secretary  Cecil ;  and  he 

frequently  in  subsequent  letters,  to  be  entreated  her  Majesty  to  overlook  "  his 

allowed  to  visit  England,  was  ungra-  former  faultes."     On  the  19th  of  July, 

ciously  refused,  or  allowed  for  many  after ,  stating  "  of  what  importance  the 

months  to  pass  unnoticed.     On  the  9th  successe  of  thinges  touching  religion  in 

of  July,  after  Knox  had  reached  Scot-  Scotland    is    for    us,"     Throkmorton 

land,    but    still   expressing  the   same  strongly  urges   upon   Cecil  the  expe- 

anxious  desire  to  see  his  brethren  in  diency  "  that  Knokes  have  liberty  to 

the  North  of  England,  Cecil  wrote  to  repair  into  England,  how  short  soever 

Sir   Nicholas   Throkmorton :    "  Knoxe  his  abode  be  there."     (Forbes's  State 

desi/reth  to  come  hyther :   if  he    might  Papers,  vol.  i.  pp.  129,  155, 167.)   From 

come  secretly,  I  wold  allow  it;    other-  Cecil's  own  letter,  on  the  28th  of  July, 

wise  not."    On  the  13th  of  June,  Tlirok-  (see  page  34,)  it  appears  that  he  had  re- 

morton,  in  a  letter  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  quested  ELnox  to  meet  him  at  Stamford ; 

had  mentioned  that  Knox's   wife  and  but  the  course  of  events,  as  related  at 

his  mother-in-law  were  then  in  Paris,  page  32,  prevented  his   travelling  be- 

intending  to  retm-n  through  England,  yond  Berwick, 

and  that  he  had   promised  letters  in  '  In  MS.  G.  "  imprisonment." 


20  THP:  history  of  Book  III. 

neth)  can  be  judged  offense.  But  I  have,  (say  you,)  wreittin  a 
treassonable  [booke]  aganis  the  Regiment  and  Impyre  of 
"Women  :  If  that  be  my  offense,  the  poore  flocke  is  innocent, 
(except  suche  as  this  day  do  fastest  cry  treasoun:)  For,  Sir,  in 
Goddis  presence  I  wreitt,  with  none  in  that  cumpany  did  I 
consult  befoire  the  finisheing  of  the  same ;  and,  thairfoire, 
in  Chiystis  name,  I  requyre  that  the  blame  may  ly  upoun  me 
allone.  The  wreitting  of  that  Booke  I  will  nott  deny,  but  to 
prove  it  treassonable  I  think  it  salbe  hard.  For,  Sir,  no  more 
do  I  doubt  of  the  treuth  of  my  principall  propositioun,  then 
that  I  doubt  that  this  was  the  voce  of  God  wliiche  first  did 
pronunce  this  penaltie  aganis  woman,  "  In  doloure  sail  thou 
beare  thy  chyldrein."  It  is  bruitted,  that  my  Booke  is  or  salbe 
writtin  against.  Yf  so  be.  Sir,  I  greatlie  feare  that  flattereris 
sail  rather  hurte  nor  mend  the  mater,  which  thei  wald  seame 
to  mainteine ;  for,  except  that  my  error  be  plainlie  schawin 
and  confuted  be  better  authoritie  then  by  suche  lawis  as  frome 
yeir  to  yeir  may  and  do  change,  I  dar  nott  promitt  silence  in 
so  wechtie  a  besines,  leist  that  in  so  doing,  I  sail  appear  to 
betray  the  verretie  whiche  is  not  subjected  to  the  mutabilitie 
of  tjxne.  And  if  ony  think  me  ather  ennemye  to  the  Persone 
or  yet  to  the  Regiment  of  her  quhome  God  hath  now  promot- 
ed, thei  are  utterlie  deceived  of  me.  For  the  miraculouse  wark 
of  God,  conforting  his  afflicted  by  ane  infirme  veschell,  I  do 
acknawlege,  and  the  power  of  his  most  potent  hand  (raiseing 
up  quhome  best  pleiseit  his  mercie  to  suppresse  such  as  fecht 
aganis  his  glorie)  I  will  obey,  albeit  that  boyth  nature  and 
Goddis  most  perfyt  ordinance  repugne  to  suche  regiment. 
Moir  plainlie  to  speik,  yf  Quene  Elizabeth  sail  confesse,  that 
the  extraordinarie  dispensatioun  of  Goddis  great  mercie  mack- 
eth  that  lauchfull  unto  her,  whiche  boyth  nature  and  Goddis 
law  do  deny  to  all  women,  then  sail  non  in  England  be  more 
willing  to  mainteine  her  lauchfull  authoritie  then  I  salbe: 
But  yf  (Goddis  wonderouse  werk  sett  asyd)  scho  ground  (as 


1559.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  21 

God  forbid)  the  justnes  of  her  title  upoiin  consuetude,  lawis,  or 
ordinances  of  men  ;  then  I  am  assured,  that  as  suche  foolishe 
presumpcioun  doeth  heyghlie  offend  Goddis  supreame  majesty, 
so  do  I  greatlie  feare  that  her  ingratitude  sail  nocht  lang  lack 
punishement.  And  this  in  the  name  of  the  eternall  God,  and 
of  his  sone  Jesus  Cliryst,  (befoire  quhome  boyth  you  and 
I  sail  stand,  to  male  accomptes  of  all  counsall  we  geve,)  I 
requyre  you  to  signifie  unto  Her  Grace  in  my  name  ;  adding, 
that  onlie  humilitie  and  dejectioun  of  herself  before  God  salbe 
the  firmitie  and  stabilitie  of  her  throne,  quhilk  I  knaw  sail  be  ^^oTt  ^"^^ 
assulted  mo  wayis  then  one.  Yf  this  ye  conceilli  frome  Her  "^""^ '^""^" 
Grace,  I  will  mak  it  patent  to  the  warld  that  thus  far  I  have 
communicated  with  you,  haveing  also  farther  to  speik,  yf  my 
weik  judgement  may  be  hearde.  Allace,  Sir,  is  my  offense 
(althocht  in  that  tyme,  and  in  that  mater,  I  had  writtin  ten 
bookis)  so  haineuse  that  I  can  nott  have  licence,  by  preacheing 
of  Christ  Jesus,  to  refreshe  thoise  thrustye  saulles  whiche  long 
have  laicked  the  watter  of  lyffe.  No  man  will  I  presentlie 
accuse  ;  butt  I  greatlie  fear,  that  the  leprouse  have  no  plaisour 
to  behald  thair  faces  in  the  cleir  glasse.  Lett  none  2  be 
affrayed  that  I  requyre  to  frequent  the  Courte,  ather  yet  of 
any  continuance  to  remaine  in  England  ;  but  onlye  thristis 
in  passing  furthe  to  my  awin  native  countrie  to  communicat 
with  you  and  sum  uther,  suche  thingis  as  willinglie  I  list  nott 
to  committ  to  paper,  neither  yet  to  the  knawledge  and 
creddit  of  many  ;  and  then,  in  the  Northe  pairtes,  to  offer 
Goddis  favouris  to  suche  as  I  suj^poise  do  murne  for  thair 
defectioun.  And  this  I  trust  salbe  no  less  profitable  to  Her 
Grace,  and  to  all  godlie  within  England,  then  it  sould  be 
pleiseing  to  me  in  the  flesche. 

"  This  is  the  thrid  tyme  that  I  have  beggit  licence  to  visite 
the  hungrie  and  thristie  amangs  you,  whiche,  yf  now  be  denyed, 
as  befoire  God  I  have  a  testimonie,  that  so  muche  I  seik  nott 

'  In  the  MS.  of  1566,  "thei  counsall."  =  lii  MS.  (i,  "Lat  no  man." 


22  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

myself,  as  the  advancement  of  Cliiystis  Evangell,  and  the  con- 
forte  of  suche  as  quhome  I  knaw  afflicted  ;  so  sail  the  godlie 
understand  that  England,  in  refuseing  me,  refiiseth  a  friend, 
how  small  that  ever  the  power  be.  The  mychtie  Spreit  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  muve  youre  hairie  deaplie  to  consider  youre 
dewtie  unto  God,  and  the  estait  of  that  Realme  in  whiche, 
by  his  appointement,  ye  now  sei-ve.  From  Deape,  the  [22d^]  of 
Aprile  1559. 

{Sic  suhscribitur,) 
"  Youris  to  command  in  godlines, 

"  Jhone  Knox/' 

To  this  letter  was  no  answer  maid ;  for  schorte  thairefter  the 
said  Jhone  Knox  maid  forduard  to  Scotland  by  sea,  where  he 
landed  the  thrid  day  of  Maij  ;2  and  had  suche  successe  as 
in  the  Secound  Booke  is  declaired.  The  said  Jhone  being  in 
Sanctandrois  efter  Cuper  Mure,^  entred  in  deipe  discourse  with 
the  Laird  of  Grange :  the  dangeris  war  evident,  butt  the 
supporte  was  nott  easie  to  be  seine.  Efter  many  wordis, 
Jhone  Knox  burstit  furth  as  followis :  "  Yff  England  wald  foir- 
sie  thair  awin  comoditie,  yea,  jf  thai  did  consider  the  danger 
quhairiji  thei  thameselfis  stand,  thai  wald  nott  suffer  us  to 
perishe  in  this  quarrell ;  for  France  hath  decreit  no  less  the  ' 
conquest  of  England  then  of  Scotland."  After  long  reasson- 
ing,  it  was  concluded  betuix  thame  two,  that  supporte  sould 
be  cravit  of  England  ;  and  for  that  purpois,  the  said  Laird  of 
Grange  first  wreit  to  Sir  Harie  Percie,^  and  efter  raid  frome 
Edinburgh  and  spak  Avith  him  ;   to  quhome  he  maid  so  plaine 

*   This   date  is   supplied    from    the  page  318  of  vol.  i.^  the  2d  of  that  month 
original,   iu   the  Harl.   MSS.   (British  is  the  day  specified. 
Museum)  No.  7004.     In  the  MSS.   of  » In  June  :  see  vol.  i.  p.  325. 
Knox's  History,  it  is  dated  the  10th  of  *  Sec  infra,  note  1,  page  33. — Let- 
April,  tcrs  from  Kirkaldy  of  Grange  to  Sir 

«  There  is  a  slight  discrepancy  in  the  Henry  Percy,  between  the  28d  June  and 

date   of   Knox's   arrival    in   Scotland.  1st   July  1559,   are   pi'eserved  in   the 

Here  it  is  the  3d  of  May  1559,  but  at  State  Paper  Office. 


1559.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  23 

demonstratioiin  of  the  danger  appeiring  to  England,  that  he 
tooke  upoun  him  to  VTeit  to  the  Secretarie  Cycill ;  quho  with 
expeditioun  returned  answer  bak  agane,  geving  him  to  under- 
stand, thatt  oure  interpryse  altogitther  myslyked  nott  the 
Counsall,  albeit  that  thei  desyrit  farther  resolutioun  of  the 
principall  Lordis.  Wliiche  thing  understand,  it  was  concluded 
by  somei  to  wreitt  unto  him  plainlie  oure  hoill  purpois.  The 
tennor  of  oure  letter  was  this  : — 

The  first  Letter  to  [Sir]  "Willyaume  Cycill,  era 
the  lordis  of  the  congregatioun. 
"The  contentis  of  a  letter  direct  by  you  (rycht  worschipfull) 
to  Sir  Harie  Percie,  was  notifeid  unto  us  b}^  Mr.  Kircaldie  of 
Grange,  this  Sonday  the  [16th^J  of  Julij,  by  the  whiche  we  per- 
ceave,  that  the  said  Grange,  of  zeill  and  faithful!  hairt  whiche 
he  bereth  to  the  furtherance  of  this  our  great,  and,  befoire  the 
warld,  dangerous  interpiyse,  hath  travelled  with  you  as  with  ane 
unfeaned  favorer  of  Chrj^stis  trew  religioun,  and  of  the  libertie 
of  our  countrye,  for  knawlege  of  your  myndis  towardis  us, 
incais  that  we  be  assaulted  by  ony  forayne  invasioun,  or  greater 
power  then  we  be  weill  able  to  resist.  Youre  confortable 
answer  to  this  questioun  we  have  considered,  to  our  joy  and 
conforte,  as  also  youre  motiouns,  and  quhatt  ye  demand;  to 
witt.  What  we,  the  Protestantis  within  this  realme,  do  purpois  ? 
To  quhatt  end  we  meane  to  directe  oure  actiouns  ?  How  we 
will,  and  how  we  be^  able  to  accompleis  the  same  ?  What 
doubtis  we  have  of  ony  adversare  powar  ?  And  finallie,  incais  that 
suj^porte  sould  be  send  frome  you,  what  manor  of  amy  tie  mycht 
insew  betuix  these  twa  realmes  ?     To  the  whiche  in  breve  we 


*  The  words,  "by  some,"  are  omitted  Soiuiday,  the  15  of  Julij  ;"  but  the  3d 

in  MS.  G.  Sunday  of  July  fell  on  the  16th ;  and  it 

2  In  Vautr.  edit.  "  the  26th  of  Julie ;"  has  been  seen,  that  such  mistakes  on  the 

MS.  G.  has  "  the  25th."     In  the  MS.  part  of  Knox  are  not  unusual. 

1566,  it  might  either  be  25  or  28.    The  ^  Vautr.  edit,  has,  "  how  we  be  able ;'" 

original  letter  reads  distinctly,  "  this  MS.  G,  "  how  we  sail  be  able." 


24 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  III. 


answer,  That  oiire  lioille  and  only  purpois  (as  knaweth  God)  is 
to  advance  the  glorye  of  Chryst  Jesus,  the  trew  preaching  of 
his  evangell  i  within  this  realme ;  to  remove  superstitioun,  and 
all  kynd  of  idolatrie;^  to  brydeill  to  our  poweris  the  furie  of 
those  that  heirtofoir  have  cruellie  sched  the  bloode  of  our 
bretherein  ;  and,  to  our  utermest,  to  meanteine  the  libertie  of 
this  oure  country e  frome  the  tirranie  and  thraldome  of  stran- 
geris,  as  God  sail  assist  us.  How  we  [sail]  be  able  to  accompleiss 
these  premisses,  is  to  us  unknawin  ;  onlye  oure  hoip  is  guid 
that  He  that  hes  begune  this  guid  wark  in  us,  and  hathe,  by 
his  power,  to  this  hour  confounded  the  faces  of  our  adversaries, 
will  performe  the  same  to  his  glorie,  whiche  chieflie  we  seik 
in  this  oure  interpryse.  Because  we  suppoise,  that  neither 
oure  present  danger,  neither  yett  the  weirlyke  preparatioun 
whiche  France  maketh  aganis  us,  be  hyd  frome  you  nor  frome 
the  Counsall,  we  omitt  that  pairt.  As  tuicheing  the  assurance 
of  a  perpetuall  amity  to  stand  betuix  these  twa  Realmes  ;  as  no 
earthlie  [thing]  of  us  is  more  desyred,  so  crave  we  of  God  to 
mak  us  instrumentis  by  whiche  this  unnaturall  debaite,  whiche 
long  hath  continued  betuix  us,  may  anis  be  composed,  to  the 
prais  of  Goddis  name,  and  to  the  confort  of  the  faithfuU  in 
boyth  realmes.  And  gif  youre  wisdomes  can  foirsie  and  devyse 
the  meanes  and  assurances,  how  the  same  may  be  brocht  to 
passe;  perswade  youreselfis,  not  onlye  of  oure  consent  and  assist- 
ance, but  also  of  oure  constancie,  as  men  may  promeise,  to  oure 
lyves  end ;  yea,  and  farther,  of  a  charge  and  commandement 
by  us  to  be  left  to  oure  posteritie,  that  the  amity  betuix  [us], 
in  God  contracted  and  begun,  may  be  by  thame  kept  inviolat 
for  ever.  And  for  the  revolting  frome  you  to  France,  whiche 
yee  seeme  to  fear  and  suspect,  at  thair  pleisour,  we  utterlie 
abhor  that  infidelitie  ;  for  now  doeth  the  voyce^  of  God  con- 
tinualie  sound  in  our  earis,  '  That  suche  as  profaine  the  terrible 


'  In  MS.  G,  "  his  holie  evangell ; "  in 
Vautr.  edit.  "  bis  gospell." 


'  In  MS.  G,  "  externall  idolatrie,' 
» In  MS.  1666,  "  wolce." 


1559.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  25 

and  reverent  name  of  God,  sail  nott  eschaip  veangence.'  Oure 
confederacie,  amitie,  and  leigue,  sail  nott  be  lyke  the  pactions 
maid  by  wardlie  men  for  wardlie  proiFeit  ;  but  as  we  require 
it  for  Goddis  caus,  so  will  we  incall  his  name  for  the  observa- 
tioun  of  the  same.  Moirover,  gif  we  sould  laike  any  thing  to 
temporall  commoditie,  yitt  sould  we  never  have  occasioun  to 
returne  to  thame  ;  ifor  we  now  perceave  and  feill  the  wecht 
of  thair  yoke,  and  intend  (by  Goddis  grace)  to  cutt  away 
suche  instrumentis^  as  by  quhome  this  realme  wes  befoire 
abused.  Trew  it  is,  that  as  yeit  we  have  maid  no  mentioun  of 
ony  change  in  Authoritie,  neither  yeit  were  we  myndit  to  [do] 
any  suche  thing,  till  extreme  necessitie  compelled  us  thairto  : 
but  seing  it  is  now  more  than  evident,  that  France,  and  the 
Quene  Regent  heir,  with  hir  preistis,  pretend  to  nothing  bot 
the  suppressing  of  Chrystis  Evangell,  the  ruyne  of  us,  and  the 
subversioun  of  [this]  poore  realme  ;  committing  oure  innocencie 
to  God,  and  unto  the  judgment  of  all  godlie  and  naturall  men, 
we  are  determined  to  seik  the  nixt  remedie,  in  whiche  we 
hairtlie  requyre  youre  counsaill  and  assistance.  And  this  far 
we  have  interj)iysit,  to  mak  you  participant  of  oure  purpois; 
becauis  in  the  said  letteris  you  requyred  of  the  [said]  Mr. 
Kirkcaldie  sum  farther  assurance  then  his  awin  woord  of 
wreitting,  whiche  we  dout  nott  bot  ye  sail  schoirtlie  receave 
frome  mo  then  frome  us.  We  dar  nott  haistellie  mak  the  whole 
assemblie,  neither  of  noblis,  neither  of  barronis,  prevy  in  this 
cause,  for  dangeris  that  may  insew  by  policie  and  craft  of  the 
adversaries  ;  youre  Wisdomes,  we  doubt  not,  will  communicat 
these  onlye,  with  suche  as  ye  knaw  favoraris  of  such  ane 
godlie  conjunctioun.  It  should  much  help  in  oure  opinioun, 
gif  the  preacharis  boyth  in  persuasioun  and  in  publict  prayeris, 
(as  ouris  do  heire,)  wald  commend  the  same  unto  the  peopill. 
And  thus,  efter  oure  humill  commendatiounis  to  the  Quenis 
Majestie,  (quhois  reigne  we  desyre  to  be  prosperous  and  long, 

1  In  the  original  letter,  the  words,  "  the  papisticall  clergy e,"  are  added  in  the  margin. 


26  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

to  tlie  glorie  of  God,  and  conforte  of  liis  Churclie,)  we  hairtlie 
committ  you  to  the  protectioun  of  the  Omnipotent.  Fra  Edin- 
burgh, the  [19th  1]  of  Julij  1559." 

With  this  oure  letter,^  Jhonne  Knox  wreat  two,  one  to  the 
said  Secratarie,  and  ane  uther  to  the  Quenis  Majestic  hirself, 
in  tennour  as  efter  followis  : 

Jhone  Knox-^  secound  Letter  to  Mr.  Cycill,  for  deli- 
verance OF  ANE  UTHER  TO  THE  QuEIN  OF  ENGLAND. 

"  With  my  humill  commendatiounis.  Pleise  you.  Sir,  to 
delyver  this  other  letter  inclosit  to  the  Quenis  Grace.  It 
containeth  in  few  and  in  semple  wourdis  my  confessioun,  quhat 
I  think  of  hir  Authoritie,  how  it  is  just,  and  quhat  may  mak 
it  odious  in  Goddis  presence.  I  heir  that  thair  is  ane  Con- 
futatioun  sett  furth  in  prent  aganis  'The  First  Blast.'*  God 
grant  that  the  wreitter  have  no  more  socht  the  favoris  of  this 
present  estait,  no  less  the  glorie  of  God,  and  the  stable  com- 
moditie  of  his  countrey,  then  did  he  quho  enterprysed  in  that 
'Blast' to  utter  his  conscience.  Wlien  I  sail  have  tyme,  (whiche 
now  is  sumquhatt  j)recious  unto  me,)  to  peruse  that  werk,  I 
will  communicat  my  judgement  with  you. 

^  In  all  the  copies  of  ELnox's  History,  that  these  letters  were  purposely  sup- 

this  letter  is  dated  the  17th  of  July;  pressed  while  that  edition  was  at  press, 

the  original  has  the  19th.  in  order    to   avoid  giving    offence    to 

2  The  original  of  this  letter,  in  the  Queen  Elizabeth. — As  already  mention- 
hand-writmg  of  Knox,  is  preserved  in  ed,  the  originals  of  several  of  Knox's 
the  State  Paper  Office.  It  is  signed  by  Letters  of  this  period,  are  still  pre- 
tbe  Earls  of  Argyle  and  Glencairn,  the  served,  and  copies  of  them  will  be  in- 
Prior  of  St.  Andrews,  and  Lords  Ruth-  serted  in  a  subsequent  volume, 
ven,  Boyd,  and  Ochiltree.  The  original  *  Alluding  to  the  publication  by  John 
draft  of  Cecil's  answer,  in  the  same  Aylmcr,  afterwards  Bishop  of  London, 
collection,  is  dated  28th  July  1559.  which  will  be  more  particularly  noticed 
(See  Tytler's  Hist,  of  Scotland,  vol.  vi.  in  a  subsequent  volume,  entitled,  "  An 
pp.  122,  124.)  Harborowe  for  faithfuU  and  trewe  sub- 

2  This  second  letter  to  Cecil,  aud  the  jectes,  against  the  late  blowne  Blaste 

following  one  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  are  concerninge  the   Government    of   We- 

omitted  in  Vautrollier's    edition    and  men,"  &c.     Anno  1559.    4to. 
the  later  MSS.     It  is  highly  probable 


1559.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  27 

"  The  tyme  is  now,  Sir,  that  all  that  either  thrist  Chiyst  Jesus 
to  reigne  in  this  yle,  or  yett  the  hairtes  of  the  inhabitantes  of 
the  same  to  be  joyned  togidder  in  love  unfained,  aucht  rather 
to  studie  how  the  same  mycht  be  brocht  to  passe,  then  vanelie 
to  travaill  for  the  mantenance  of  that,  quhairof  we  have  all- 
reddy  seine  the  danger,  and  felt  the  smarte.  Gif  the  most 
j)airt  of  women  be  wicked,  and  suche  as  willingiie  we  wald  nott 
reigne  over  us ;  and  gif  the  most  godlie,  and  suche  as  have 
rare  graces  be  yett  mortall,  we  aucht  to  tak  heid,  least  in 
establissing  one  judged  godlie  and  profitable  to  liir  countrey, 
we  mak  ane  entres  and  tytill  to  mony  ;  oif  quhome  not  only 
sail  the  treuth  be  impugned,  bot  also  sail  the  countrey  be 
brocht  in  bondage.  God  give  you,  and  utheris  favoraris  of 
your  countrey,  eyis  to  foirsee,  and  wisdome  to  avoyd  the 
dangeris  appeareing. 

"  By  dj^'-erse  [letteris],  I  have  requyred  licence  to  have 
visited  the  North  pairtis  of  England ;  but  as  yitt  I  have  res- 
saved  no  favorabill  answer.^  The  longer,  Sir,  that  it  be  de- 
layed, the  less  conforte  sail  the  faithful!  thair  receive,  the 
weaker  sail  the  Quenis  Grace  be.  Gif  I  war  nott  to  hir  Grace 
ane  unfeaned  friend,  I  wald  not  instantlie  begg  suche  libertie, 
whiche  to  me  I  knaw  sail  neither  be  proffitable  nor  pleising 
in  the  flesche.  The  estait  of  thingis  here  comoun,  I  dout  nott 
ye  knaw.  Some  thingis  I  have,  (as  oft  I  have  wreitten,) 
whiche  gladlie  I  wald  communicat,  quhilk  I  mynd  nott  to  com- 
mitt  unto  paper  and  ynk :  find,  thairfoir,  the  meanis  that  I 
may  speik  suche  one  as  ye  will  credit  in  all  thingis.  The 
grace  of  the  Lord  Jesus  rest  with  you. 

"I  hairtlie  beseik  you  to  have  my  servdce  humblie  commend- 
ed to  the  Quenis  Grace ;  adding,  that  quhosoever  maketh 
me  odious  to  hir  Grace,  seiketh  somequhatt  besydis  the  glorie 
of  God,  and  hir  Grace's  jjrosperitie ;  and  thairfoir  can  nott  be 
assured  and  unfayned  freindis.     From,  &c." 

'  See  sujtra,  page  19,  note  1. 


28  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

Tlie  letter  sent  be  the  said  Jlionne,  to  the  Qiienis  Majestic 
of  England,  being  inclosed  in  the  foirsaid  Mr.  Cycillis  letter. 

"  to  the  verteous  and  godlte  elizabeth,  by  the  grace  of 
God  Quein  of  England,  &c.,  Jhonne  Knox  desyreth 

THE  PERPETUALL  CONFORTE  OF  THE  HoLY  SpREIT. 

"  As  yonre  Grace's  displeisoure  aganis  me,  most  injustlie 
conceaved,  hath  bein,  and  is  to  my  wretched  hearte  a  burdene 
greavouse,  and  almost  intollerable  ;  so  is  the  testimony  of  ane 
cleir  conscience  to  me  ane  stay  and  uphald,  that  in  dispera- 
tioun  I  synk  nott,  how  vehement  that  ever  the  tentatiouns 
appeir.  For,  in  Goddis  presence,  my  conscience  beareth  me 
record,  that  maliciously,  nor  of  purpoise,  I  never  oiFended 
youre  Grace,  nor  youre  realme  ;  and,  thairfoir,  howsoever  I  be 
judged  of  man,  I  am  assured  to  be  absolved  of  him  quho  only 
knaweth  the  secreitis  of  hairtis.  I  can  not  deny  the  wreiting 
of  a  booke  aganis  the  usurped  Authoritie,  and  injust  Regement 
of  Women  ;l  neither  [yit]  am  I  myndit  to  retract  or  call  back 
any  principall  point,  or  propositioun  of  the  same,  till  treuth  and 
verritie  do  farder  appeir.  But  quhy,  that  either  youre  Grace, 
either  yitt  ony  suche  as  unfeanedlie  favore  the  libertie  of 
England,  be  offendit  at  the  authore  of  suche  ane  warke,  I  can 
perceave  no  just  occasioun.  For,  first,  my  booke  tueched  nott 
youre  Grace's  persoune  [in  speciall,]  neither  yitt  is  it  preju- 
dicial! till  any  libertie  of  the  realme,  gif  the  tyme  of  my  wret- 
ting  be  indifFerentlie  considdered.  How  could  I  be  ennemy 
to  youre  Grace's  persone,  for  dely\^erance  quhairof  I  did  more 
studie,  and  interpryse  farther,  then  ony  of  these  that  now 
accuise  me?  And,  as  concerning  youre  Regiment,  how  could  or 
can  I  invy  that  whiche  most  I  have  thristit,  and  for  the 
quhilk  (as  oblivioun  will  suffer)  I  render  thankis  unfeandlie 
unto  God  ?  That  is,  '  That  he  hath  pleised  him,  of  his  eter- 
nall  goodness,  to  exalt  your  head,  (which  some  tymes  was  in 

'  Referring  to  his  "  First  Blast  of  the  Trumpet,"  &c.,  published  at  Geneva,  in  1658. 


ir.sy.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  29 

danger,)  to  the  manifestatioun  of  his  glorie,  and  extirpatioun 
of  idolatrie/     And  as  for  my  offense,  quhilk  I  have  committed 
against  England,    either  in  wreitting  that,  or  of  any  uther 
work,   I  will  nott  refuise  that  moderat  and  indifferent  man 
judge  and  discerne  betwix  me  and  those  that  accuise  [me] :  to 
witt,  quhither  of  the  parties  do  maist  hurt  to  the  libertie  of 
England,  I  that  affirme,  '  That  no  woman  may  be  exalted  above 
anyi  realme,  to  mak  the  libertie  of  the  same  thrall  to  ane 
strange,  proude,   and  cruell  natioun ;'   or,  they  that  approve 
quhatsoever  plaeseth  Princes  for  the  tyme.     Gif  I  w^ar  alsweill 
disposed  to  accuse,  as  some  of  thame  (till  thair  awin  scliame) 
have  declaired  thame  selfis,  I  no  thing  doubt,  bot  that  in  few 
wourdis  I  sould  lett  reassonable  men  understand,  that  some 
that  this  day  lawlie  crouche  to  your  Grace,  and  laubor  to  mak 
me  odiuss  in  your  eyes,  did,  in  your  adversitie,  neather  schaw 
thame  selfis  faithfull  freindis  to  your  Grace,  neather  so  loveing 
and  carefull  over  thair  awin  native  countrey,  as  thei  wald  be 
estemed.     But    omitting  the  accusatioun  of  utheris,    for  my 
awin  purgatioun,  and  your  Grace's  satisfactioun,  I  say,  that 
nothing  in  my  booke  contained,  is,  nor  can  be  prejudiciall  to 
your  Grace's  just  regiment,  providit  that  ye  be  nott  found  un- 
grate unto  God :    Ungrate  ye   sallbe   provein  in  presence  of 
his  throne,  (howsoever  that  flattereris  justifie  your  factioun,) 
gif  ye  transferr  the  glory e  of  that  honor,  in  quhilk  ye  now 
stand,  to  any  uther  thing,  then  to  the  dispensatioun  of  his 
mercie,  which  only  maketh  that  lauchfuU  to  your  Grace,  quhilk 
nature  and  law  denyeth  to  all  woman.      Neither  wald  I  that 
your  Grace  should  feare  that  this   your  humiliatioun  before 
[God]  sould,  in  ony  caise,  infirme  or  weaken  your  Grace's  just 
and   lauchfull  authoritie  befoire  men.      Nay,    Madame,    such 
unfeaned  confessioun  of  Goddis   benifits  receaved  shalbe  the 
establissement  of  the  same,  nott  only  to  youre  self,  but  also  to 
youre  seid  and  posteritie  ;  whair,  contrari\vyse,  a  proude  con- 

1  la  MS.  G,  "  over  any." 


30  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

ceat  and  elevatioun  of  youre  self,  salbe  the  occasioun,  that 
youre  reigne  salbe  unstable,  troublesome,  and  schorte.  God  is 
witnesse,  that  unfeanedlie  I  boyth  love  and  reverence  youre 
Grace  ;  yea,  I  pray,  that  youre  reigne  may  be  long,  prosj)erouse, 
and  quyet;  and  that,  for  the  quyetnes  which  Christis  mem- 
bres,  befoire  persecuted,  have  receaved  under  you. 

"  Bot  yett,  gif  I  should  flatter  youre  Grace,  I  war  no  freind, 
hot  ane  deceavable  traitor.  And  thairfoire  of  conscience,  I 
am  compelled  to  say,  that  neather  the  consent  of  people, 
the  i)rocess  of  tyme,  nor  multitude  of  men,  can  establische  a 
law  which  God  sail  approve  ;  bot  quhatsoever  he  approveth 
by  his  eternall  wourd,  that  shalbe  approved,  and  quhatsoever 
he  condempneth  salbe  condempned,  thocht  all  men  in  earth 
wald  hasard  the  justificatioun  of  the  same.  And,  thairfoire, 
Madame,  the  only  way  to  reteane  and  kept  those  benefites  of 
God,  aboundantlie  poured  now  of  laitt  dayis  upoun  you,  and 
upoun  youre  realme,  is  unfeanedlie  to  rander  unto  God,  to 
his  mercie,  and  undeserved  grace,  the  [whole]  glorie  of  this 
youre  exaltatioun.  Forgett  youre  birth,  and  all  tytill  which 
thairui^oun  doeth  liing  ;  and  considder  deiplie,  how  for  feir 
of  your  lyef,  ye  did  declyne  from  God,  and  bow  till  idoUatrie. 
Lett  it  not  appeire  ane  small  offence  in  your  eyes,  that  ye  have 
declyned  from  Christ  Jesus  in  the  day  of  his  batteill.  Neither 
yett  wald  I,  that  ye  sould  esteme  that  mercie  to  be  vulgare 
and  commoun  which  ye  have  received  ;  to  witt,  that  God  hath 
covered  your  former  offense,  hathe  preserved  you  qulien  ye 
war  most  unthankfull ;  and  in  the  end,  hath  exalted  and  rai- 
seit  you  up,  nott  only  from  the  dust,  bot  also  from  the  portis 
of  deith,  to  reule  above  his  people,  for  the  confort  of  his  Kirk. 
It  apperteneth  to  you,  thairfoire,  to  ground  the  justice  of  your 
Authoritie,  nott  upoun  tliat  law,  which  from  year  to  year 
doeth  change,  but  upoun  the  eternall  providence  of  Him,  who, 
contrair  to  nature,  and  without  your  deserving,  hath  thus 
exalted  your  head.     Gif  thus,  in  Goddis  presence,  ye  humill 


155!).  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  31 

your  self,  as  in  my  heart  I  glorifie  God  for  that  rest  granted 
to  his  afflicted  flocke  within  Ingland,  under  you  a  weik  instru- 
ment ;  so  will  I  with  toung  and  pcnn  justifie  your  Authoritie 
and  Regiment,  as  the  Holy  Ghost  hath  justified  l  the  same  in 
Debora,  that  blissed  mother  in  Israeli.  Bot  gif  the  premisses 
(as  God  forbeid)  neglected,  ye  sail  begin  to  bragg  of  your 
birth,  and  to  builde  your  Authoritie  and  Regiment  upoun  your 
awin  law,  flatter  you  quho  so  list,  your  felicitie  salbe  schorte. 
Interpreit  my  rude  wordis  in  the  best  pairte,  as  written  by 
him  who  is  no  ennemye  to  your  Grace. 

"  By  dyverse  letteris  I  have  requyred  license  to  veseit  your 
Realme,  nott  to  seik  my  self,  neither  yett  my  awin  ease  nor 
commoditie ;  which,  gif  ye  now  refuise  and  deny,  I  most  remit 
my  cans  to  God;  adding  this  for  conclusioun,  that  commonlie 
it  is  seine,  '  That  such  as  refuise  the  counsaill  of  the  faithfull, 
(appeir  it  never  so  scharpe,)  ar  compelled  to  follow  the  deceat 
of  flattereris  to  thair  awin  perditioun.'  The  mychtic  Sj)reit  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  move  your  hairt  to  understand  quhat  is  said ; 
give  unto  you  the  discretioun  of  spreittis,  and  so  rewll  you 
in  all  your  actions  and  interjDryses,  that  in  you  God  may  be 
glorified,  his  Kirk  edified,  and  ye  your  self  as  ane  lyvlie 
member  of  the  same,  may  be  an  example  of  vertew  and  godlie 
lyfFe  till  all  utheris.  So  be  it.  Of  Edinburgh,  the  [20th  2] 
dayof  Julij  1559." 

These  letters  war  directed  by  Alexander  Quhytlaw,^  a  man 

'  In  the  MS.  of  1566,  "  institued."  "  being  a  very  honest,  sober,  and  godly 

'  MS.  G.  makes  it  the  28th ;  but  the  man,  and  the  most  truely  affectionat  to 

date  of  the  original  letter,  as  Mi\  Tytler  England  of  any   Scottishman  I  know 

has  noticed,  is  the  20th  of  July.    (Hist.  here,  hath  been  with  me,  and  given  me 

vol.  vi.  p.  122.)  diverse  advertisements  of  things  which 

^  See  a  brief  notice  of  Whytelaw,  in  be  trew ;"  and  he  recommends  that  he 

vol.  i.  p.  393.    Throkmorton,  in  a  letter  should  receive  the  same  pension  he  had 

dated  at  Paris,  21st  June  1559,  says,  enjoyed,  after  his  lands  in  Scotland  had 

"  One  Sanders  Whitlo,  a  Scottishman,  been  forfeited  by  the  Earl  of  Huntley, 

who  was  heretofore  pensioner  in  Eng-  (Forbes's  State  Papers,  vol.  i.  p.  137.) 

land,   in   King  Edward's   tyme,"    and  On  the  28th  June,  he  was  the  bearer  of  a 


32  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

that  oft  hath  hazarded  liim  self,  and  all  that  he  had,  for  the 
cause  of  God,  and  for  his  freindis  being  in  danger  for  the 
same  cause. 

Within  a  day  or  twa  efter  the  departing  of  the  said 
Alexander,  thair  come  a  lettre  from  Sir  Harye  Percye  to 
Jhone  Knox,  requyring  him  to  meitt  him  at  Annyk,^  the 
threid  of  August,  for  such  effairis  as  he  wald  nott  wreit,  nor 
yitt  communicat  with  any  but  with  the  said  Jhone  him  self 
While  he  was  preparing  him  self  for  the  journay,  (for  Secre- 
tary Cycill  had  appointed  to  have  mett  him  at  Stampfourd,)^ 
the  Frenche  men  furiouslie  come  furtli  of  Dumbar,  of  purpose 
to  have  surprised  the  Lordis  being  in  Edinburgh,  as  in  the 
Secound  Booke  befoir  is  declared  :  Which  stayit  the  journay  of 
the  said  Jhonne,  till  that  God  had  delyvered  the  innocentis 
from  that  great  danger ;  and  then  was  he,  having  in  his  com- 
pany,^ Maister  Robert  Hamyltoun,7  minister  of  the  Evan- 
gell  of  Jesus  Christ,  directed  from  the  Lordis,  with  full  com- 
missioun  and  instructiouns  to  expone  thair  hole  cause  and 
estait  quhairin  thei  stoode. 

Thair  passage  was  from  Petinweame,^  by  sea.  Thei  arryvit 
at  Holy-Hand  ;  and  being  advertissed  that  Sir  Harye  Percie  was 
absent  from  [the  North],  thei  addressed  thame  selfis  to  Sir 
James  Croftis,  then  Capitane  of  Berwik,  and  Wardein  of  the 
East  Marches  of  England.  Thei  schew  unto  him  thair  creddit 
and  commissioun.     He  receaved  thame  ffentlie,  and  comforted 


letter  from  Throkmorton   to  Secretary  visible,  was  granted  by  Queen  Elizabeth 

Cecil. — (lb.  p.  147.)     A  postscript  to  the  to  Sir  AVilliam  Cecih 

letter  adds, ' '  This  bearer  is  greatly  este-  *  In  Vautr.  edit.  "  then  was  he  hated 

myd  of  John  Knokes,  and  he  doth  also  of  his  companie." 

favour  him   above  other  :   nevertheles,  ^  Mi-.  Robert  Hamilton  was  educated 

he  is  sory  for  his  boke  rashly  writen."  at  St.  Andrews.     As  witness  of  a  deed, 

*  In  MS.  G,  "  Anwich,"  the  town  of  dated  1558,  he  is  styled  Rector  of  Tor- 

Alnwick,  in  the  county  of  Northumber-  rens. — (Lyon's    St.   Andrews,    vol.   ii. 

land,  34  miles  from  Newcastle.  p.  262.)  He  afterwards  became  Jlinister 

^  Stamford,  an  ancient  borough  town  of  St.  Andrews, 

in  the  county  of  Lincoln.    The  Castle,  ^  Pittenweem,  a  royal  burgh  and  sea- 

of  wliich  scarcely  any  vestiges  are  now  port  on  the  east-coast  of  Fife. 


1559. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


tliame  with  his  faithfull  counsall,  which  Avas:    "That  tliei  soukl  «ik  jame 

CROKTIS 

travaill  no  farther,  l  ncather  yitt  soiild  thei  bo  seine  in  i)ublict,  counsal 
and  that  for  dyverse  consideratiouns.  First,  The  Qiiene  Regent 
had  her  espyellis  in  England.  Secoundarlie,  The  Quene  and 
tlie  Counsall  that  favored  our  actioun,  wald  that  all  thingis 
should  be  secreat  so  long  as  thei  mycht.  And  last,  (said  he,) 
I  think  it  nott  expedient,  that  in  such  raritie  of  preachearis, 
ye  two  be  ony  long  tyme  absent  from  the  Lordis.  And  thair- 
foire,  (said  he,)  ye  shall  do  best  to  committ  to  wreating  your 
lioile  mynd  and  creddit,  and  I  shall  promeise  to  you,  upoun 
my  honour,  to  haif  answer  at  you,  and  at  the  Lordis  againe, 
befoire  that  ye  your  selfis  can  be  at  Londoun.  And  quhaire 
that  your  letteris  can  nott  expresse  all  thingis  so  fully  as  your 
presence  could,  I  sail  supplie  the  same,  not  only  by  my  penne, 
but  also  by  my  awin  presence,  to  suche  as  will  informe  the 
Counsall  sufficientlie  of  all  thingis." 

The  said  Jhone  and  Maister  Robert  followed  his  counsall,^ 


^  As  this  portion  of  the  History  sup- 
plies a  defect  in  the  previous  Book, 
where  the  application  made  by  the 
Protestants  for  aid  from  England  is 
scarcely  alluded  to ;  and  as  there  is  an 
apparent  confusion  in  some  of  the  dates, 
owing  to  the  letters  being  partially  or 
inaccurately  copied,  a  few  words  of  ex- 
planation may  here  be  added.  Knox's 
conversation  with  Kirkaldy  of  Grange, 
(see  page  21,)  took  place  at  St.  Andrews, 
after  Cupar  Muir,  before  the  end  of 
June  1559  ;  and  letters  from  Kirkaldy, 
to  Cecil  and  Percy,  on  the  23d  and  25th 
of  that  month,  and  on  the  1st  of  July, 
are  still  preserved.  Knox  himself  wrote 
to  Cecil,  on  the  28th  Jime.  The  result 
of  their  correspondence  was,  that 
Whytelaw,  who  had  then  returned  from 
France,  and  having  passed  through 
England,  had  brought  letters  from  Sir 
William  Cecil,  was  sent  back  on  the  20th 
of  July,  as  the  bearer  of  the  letters 
from  the  Lords  of  the  Congregation, 
VOL.  II. 


and  from  Knox,  to  Cecil  and  Queen 
Elizabeth,  which  are  printed  hi  jaages 
22  to  30.  After  Whytelaw's  departure, 
Knox  received  a  letter  fi'ora  Sir  Henry 
Percy,  wishing  that  they  should  meet  at 
Alnwick.  His  journey  thither  was  de- 
layed, in  consequence  of  the  Queen  and 
the  French  troops  having  advanced  fi-om 
Dunbar,  on  Monday  the  28d  of  July,  and 
the  Congregation  having  retired  from 
Edinburgh  on  the  24th :  but  Knox,  after 
a  short  delay,  passed  through  Fife  to 
Pittenweem,  and  crossed  the  Firth  to 
Holy  Island.  Having  acceded  to  the 
suggestions  of  Sii-  James  Crofts,  instead 
of  proceeding  farther,  he  remained  at 
Berwick  until  Whytelaw  came  with 
Cecil's  letter,  on  the  2d  or  3d  of  August : 
(see  page  85,  note  1.) 

-  The  Articles  and  Instructions,  writ^ 
ten  by  Knox,  and  left  with  Crofts  to  be 
transmitted  to  the  English  Privy  Council, 
are  dated  31st  July  1559.  (See  Tytler's 
History  of  Scotland,  vol.  vi.  p.  128.) 
C 


34  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

for  it  was  faitlifuU,  and  proceidit  of  luif  at  that  tyme.  Thei 
taried  with  him  verry  secretly,  within  the  Castcll  of  Benvick, 
two  dayis.  In  the  which  tyme,  returned  Alexander  Quhytlaw 
foirsaid,  with  answer  to  the  Lordis,  and  to  Jlione  Knox  ;l  the 
tennour  of  whose  letter  was  this  : — 

Maister  Cycillis  Letter  to  Jhone  Knox. 

"  Maister  Knox, 

"  Non  est  masculus  neque  foemina,  omnes  enim,  ut  ait 
Paulus,  ununi  sumus  in  Christo  Jesu.  Benedictus  vir  qui  coii- 
fidit  in  Domino;  et  erit  Dominus  fiducia  ejus!^ 

"  I  have  resavit  your  letteris,  at  the  same  tyme  that  I  have 
thocht  to  have  sein  your  self  about  Stampfurd.  Quhat  is  now 
hitherto  the  cans  of  your  [lett],  I  knaw  nott.  I  forbeir  to 
descend  to  the  bottom e  of  thing-is,  untill  I  may  conferr  with 
such  one  as  ye  ar ;  and,  thairfoire,  gif  your  chance  slialbe 
heirefter  to  cum  hither,  I  wishe  you  furnissed  with  good  cre- 
dite,  and  power  to  mak  good  resolutioun.  Althocht  my  answer 
to  the  Lordis  of  Congregatioun  be  some  quhat  obscure,  yitt 
upoun  farther  understanding  ye  sail  find  the  matter  plaine. 
I  neid  wishe  to  you  3  no  more  prudence  then  Goddis  grace, 
quhairof  God  send  you  plentie.  And  so  I  end.  From  Oxford, 
the  28th  of  Julij  1559. 

{Sic  suhscribitur,) 
Youris  as  ane  member  of  the  same  body  in  Christ, 

"  W.  Cecill.^'^ 

Albeit  the  .'aid  Jlione  ressaved  this  letter  at  Berwyk,  yett 
wald  he  answer  no  thing  till  that  he  had  spokein  the  Lordis ; 
quhome  he  fand  in  Striveling,  and  unto  quhome  he  delyvered 

^  MS.  G.  makes  it,  "  Maistei-  Kuox."  Lurd ;    tuid  the  Lord  will  be  his  con- 

'^  That  is,  "  There  is  neither  male  uor  tideiice." 

female,  for  as  saith  Paul,  they  are  all  ^  In  MS.  15G6,  "  need  you  writ." 

one  in  Christ  Jesus.     (Galat.  iii.  28.)  *  In  MS.  15GG,  "  M.  Cccill ;"  and  this 

Bles.sod  is  the  man  who  trusteth  in  the  mistake  is  followed  in  all  the  copies. 


1550. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


35 


the  answer  send  from  the  Coiinsall  of  England ;  (for  Alexander 
Quhytlaw  tuik  seakness  betwix  Berwyk  and  Edinburgh,  and 
was  troubled  be  the  Lord  Seatoun,  as  in  the  formar  booke  is 
deelaired.i)  The  answer  send  by  Maister  Cycill,  was  so  gene- 
rail,  that  many  amanges  us  war  dispaired  of  ony  comforte  to 
come  from  that  countrey  ;  and  thairfoire  war  determined  that 
thei  wald  requeast  no  farder.  Jhone  Knox  laboured  in  the 
contraire;2  but  he  could  prevaill  no  farther,  but  that  he 
should  have  licence  and  libertie  to  writt  as  he  tliocht  best. 
And  so  tuik  he  upoun  him  to  answer  for  all,  in  forme  as 
follows  : — 

Answer  to  Mr.  Cycillis  Letter.  3 
"  Two    causes   impeded    me,   Richt  Worschipfull,   to  visitc 
you  at  any  pairt  of  England.     Formar,  no  significatioun  of  your 
mynd  and  plaisour  was  maid  unto  me,  for  only  did  Sir  Harye 


*  Dr.  M'Crie  says,  Knox,  "  at  this 
time,  prudently  returned  by  sea  to 
Fife:"  the  above  statement,  I  think, 
clearly  shows,  he  must  have  returned 
by  laud.  He  set  out  from  Berwick,  in 
company  with  Whytelaw,  on  the  3d  of 
August,  but  the  latter  being  detained  on 
the  road  by  sickness,  Knox  proceeded, 
without  delay,  and  reached  Stiiiing  on 
or  before  the  6th  of  August,  on  which 
day  he  addressed  letters  to  Sii-  James 
Crofts :  see  Tytler's  Hist.  vol.  vi.  pp. 
127,  130.  Soon  afterwards,  Whytelaw 
having  recovered,  and  set  out  on  his  j  our- 
ney,  along  with  William  Knox,  ichen  be- 
tween Preston  and  Edinburgh,  they  were 
pursued  by  Lord  Seaton,  and  narrowly 
escaped  :  see  vol.  i.  p.  393. 

-  The  result  of  Knox's  previous  com- 
munications Avas  very  important,  having 
lod  to  the  resolution  of  the  English 
Council  to  support  the  Protestants  in 
Scotland  in  their  contest  with  the  Queen 
Regent,  but  with  so  much  secrecy  as 
might  not  infringe  the  treaty  of  peace 
between  the  two  kingdoms.     For  this 


purpose  a  commission  was  granted  on 
the  8th  of  August  to  Sir  Ralph  Sadler, 
in  conjunction  with  the  Earl  of  North- 
umberland and  Sir  James  Crofts,  to 
reside  at  Berwick,  ostensibly  to  settle 
some  Border  disputes,  and  to  strengthen 
the  fortifications  of  that  city ;  and  the 
sum  of  £3000  was  placed  at  Sadler's 
disposal.  A  similar  sum  was  paid  to 
him  on  the  5th  of  October ;  and  a  third 
payment  in  November.  It  was  part  of 
this  money  that  was  sent  to  Scotland 
with  Balnaves,  and  with  Cockburn  of 
Ormiston.  (See  Letter  of  Queen  Eliza- 
beth to  Sadler,  in  Sii*  H.  Ellis's  Original 
Letters,  3d  Series,  vol.  iii.  p.  332.)— Sad- 
ler's Correspondence,  extending  fi"om 
August  1559  to  April  1560,  (included 
in  his  "  State  Papers  and  Letters," 
Edinb.  1809,  2  vols.  4to,)  furnish  co- 
pious and  most  important  materials  for 
illustrating  the  negotiations  and  pro- 
ceedings at  this  time. 

3  In  MS.  G.  and  \'autr.  edit.,  "  to 
Maister  Cicillis  writing." 


3G  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

Percye^  will  me  to  cum  and  speak  him,  which,  convenientlie 
at  that  tyme  I  could  nott  do,  be  reasone  that  the  Frenche 
men,  (which  was  the  Secound  cause  of  my  stay,)  did  then 
most  furiouslie  persew  us,  whill  our  company  was  dispersed  ; 
and  then  durst  I  nott  be  absent  for  dyverse  inconvenientis. 
Neather  did  I  think  my  presence  greatlie  necessarie  with 
you,  considdering  that  the  mater,  which  I  desyred  maist,  was 
opened  and  proponed.  To  the  quhilk  I  wald  have  wished  that 
a  more  plaine  and  especiall  answer  should  have  bein  maid. 
For,  albeit  Mr.  Quhitlaw,  by  his  credite,  Mr.  Kirkcaldie,  by 
his  letter,  and  I,  boyth  by  letteris,  and  by  that  which  I 
had  ressaved  from  Sir  James  Croftis,  did  persuade  your 
goode  mindis  ;  yitt  could  not  the  Counsall  be  uthairwayis  per- 
suaded, but  that  this  alteratioun  in  France  had  altered  your 
former  purpois.  It  is  nott  unknawin  what  favor  we  three  do 
beare  to  England;  and,  thairfoir,  I  wishe,  that  rather  your 
pen  then  our  credite,  or  ony  thing  writtin  to  ony  of  us, 
should  assuire  the  Lordis  and  otheris,  of  your  goode  myndis, 
(who  ar  hot  now  in  nomber  fyve  hundreth).  Onless  that 
money  be  fournissed  without  delay  to  pay  the  soldiouris  with, 
for  thair  servise  bypast,  and  to  reteane  ane  uther  thousand 
footmen,  with  three  hundreth  horsmen,  till  some  stay  be  had 
in  this  danger,  these  gentilmen  will  be  compelled  to  leave  the 
feildis.  I  am  assured,  as  fleshe  may  be  of  fleshe,  that  some  of 
thame  will  talc  a  veriy  harde  lyve  befoir  that  ever  they  corn- 
pone  eather  with  the  Queue  Regent,  eather  yitt  with  France ; 
but  this  I  dar  nott  promeise  of  all,  onless  in  you  they  see  a 

*  "  Sir  Henry  Percy,  second  son  of  to  tlie  family  titles  and  domains  upon 
Sir  Thomas  Percy,  who  was  executed  his  brother's  execution,  in  1572.  But 
in  1537,  on  account  of  Aske's  rebellion,  having  engaged  in  Lord  Paget's  enter- 
and  brother  of  Thomas  seventh  Earl  of  i^rise  for  setting  Queen  Mary  at  liberty, 
Northumberland.  Having  remained  and  being  imprisoned,  he  shot  himself 
attached  to  the  Queen,  and  even  taken  through  the  heart  to  prevent  the  al- 
arms against  the  insurgents,  in  the  tainder  and  forfeiture  wliich  must  have 
great  northern  rebellion,  headed  by  attended  a  conviction  for  treason." — 
Ids  brother  and  Westmoreland,  he  (Note  by  Sir  Walter  Scott,  in  Sadler's 
escaped  one  great  peril,  and  succeeded  State  Papers,  vol.  i.  p.  409.) 


1559.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  37 

greatter  forchvardness.  To  support  us  will  appeir  excessive, 
and  to  break  promeisse  with  France,  will  appeir  dangeruss. 
But  the  loss  of  expensses,  in  my  opinioun,  audit  nott  to  be 
esteamit  from  the  first  payment ;  neather  yitt  the  danger 
from  the  first  appearance.  France  is  most  feiTent  to  conqueise 
us,  and  avoweth,  that  against  us  thei  will  spend  thair  Croune, 
(so  did  my  awin  earis  heare  Buttencourt  brag^).  But,  most 
assuredlie  I  knaw,  that  onless  by  us  thei  thocht  to  mak  ane 
enteress  to  you,  that  thei  wald  nott  bye  oure  povertie  at  that 
price.  Thei  labour  to  corrupt  some  of  oure  great  men  by 
money,  (and  some  of  oure  nomber  ar  poore,  as  befoire  I  wraitt, 
and  can  nott  serve  without  supporte) ;  some  thei  threattin  ; 
and  against  utheris  thei  have  raised  up  ane  partie  in  thair 
awin  countrey.  In  this  meane  tyme,  gif  ye  lye  by  as  neu- 
trallis,  quhat  wilbe  the  end,  ye  may  easellie  conjecture. 
And,  thairfoire.  Sir,  in  the  bowellis  of  Christ  Jesus,  I  requyre 
you  to  mak  plaine  answer ;  What  the  gentillmen  heir  may 
lippin  to,  and  quhatt  the  Quenis  Majestie  will  do,  may  with- 
out long  delay  be  put  in  executioun.  Rest  in  Christ  Jesus. 
Off  Sanct  Johnstoun,  the  &c.  day  of,  &c."  2 

^  In  Vautr.  edit,  this  name  occurs  as  (jion,and  to  dissemble  idth  them;  suppos- 

two  words,  "  Butteau  Court;"  in  MS.  ing  that  to  be  the  best  meane  to  worke 

G,  "  Buttincourt."    The  person  referred  theyr  purposes."    (lb.  p.  183.)    And  on 

to,  the  Sieur  de  B^thencourt,  is  already  the  8th  August,  he  fui-ther  says,  there 

mentioned  in  a  note  to  vol.  i.  p.  384.  was  "  sent  by  Botuncourt,  at  his  last 

Sir  N.  Thi'okmorton,  in  his  correspon-  dispetche,  diverse  blankes  to  the  Queue 

dence  from  Paris,  notices  that  on  "  the  Dowager,  signed  by  the  French  King 

11th  of  this  present,  (i.  e.  the  month  and  Queen."     (lb.  193.)    His  arrival  in 

of  Jime)  there  arrived  here  in  post  out  Scotland,  with  these  letters,  is  noticed 

of  Scotlande,  one  Butomcourt,  a  French-  by  Knox  :  see  vol.  i.  p.  384. 

man,  Mahter    d'hostel    to    the   Queue  *  This  date  is  left  blank  in  the  va- 

Dowagier  there,  &c."     (Forbes's  State  rious   copies  of  Knox's  History.     But 

Papers,  vol.  i.  p.  130.)      On  the  21st  the  above  is  neither  a  full  or  accurate 

June,  he  is   called   "  Betoncoui't,   the  copy  of  the  letter,  of  which  Mr.  Tytler 

Scotishe  Quenis  Master  d'hostel,"  (ib.  p.  has  given  an  extract  from  the  original 

141);  again,  on  the  29th  July,  "  Butom-  in  the  State  Paper  Office.— (Hist.  vol. 

court,  which  I  thinke  passed  through  vi.  pp.  136,  386.)     It  is  dated  not  fi-om 

to  England,  had  in  charge  to  will  the  St.  Johnstone  (or  Perth,)  but  from  "St. 

Quene  Douagier  of  Scotland  to  conforme  Andrews,  15th  August  1559;"  and  will 

li.rself  to  the  Scotts  }vocedings  in  rdi-  afterwards  be  given  entire. 


38  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

Answerc  with  great  expeditioun  was  returned  to  this  letter, 
desyring-  some  men  of  credite  to  be  sent  frome  the  Lordis  to 
Berwykjl  for  the  receaving  of  money  for  tlie  first  supporte, 
with  promeise,  that  gif  the  Lordis  of  the  Congregatioun  meant 
no  utherwyse  then  befoire  thei  had  writtin,  and  gif  thei  wald 
enter  in  league  with  honest  conditionis,  thei  sould  neather  lack 
men  nor  money  to  thair  just  caus.  Upoun  this  answer,  was 
directed  from  the  Lordis  to  Berwik,  Maister  Henrye  Balnaves, 
a  man  [of]  goode  credit  in  boytli  the  realmes,  who  suddenlie 
returned  with  such  a  somme  of  money  as  served  all  the  publict 
eifaris  till  November  nixt;  when  Jhonne  Cokburne  of  Ormis- 
toun  send 2  for  the  second  supporte,  and  receaving  the  same, 
unhappelie  fell  in  to  handis  of  the  Erlle  Bothwell,  was 
wounded,  tane,  and  spoilzed  of  a  great  somme.^  Upoun 
whiche  mischance  followed  all  the  rest  of  oure  troubles  befoire 
rehersed. 

In  the  Secound  Booke  preceading,  we  have  declaired  how 
Secretarye  Lcthingtoun  ^  was  directed  to  England :  but  one 
thing  we  liaA^'c  befoire  past  by.  In  that,  oure  greatest  dejec- 
tioun,  this  ordour  was  tackin.  That  the  Duike  his  Grrace, 
the  Erlle  of  Glencarne,  Lord  Boyd,  Lord  Uchiltrie,  and  thair 
freindis,  should  remain  togither  at  Grlaskow,  for  conforte  of 
the  countrey,  and  for  geving  of  answeris,  as  occasioun  should 
requyrc  ;  and  that  the  Erlle  of  Arrane,  the  Lord  James,  the 
Erlle  of  Rothcss,  the  Maister  of  Lyndsay,  and  thair  adherantes, 

1  In  Sadler's   State  Papers,   (vol.  i.  Ou  tlie   same   day,  Sadler  and  Crofts 

p.  401),  there  is  a  letter,  dated   20th  wrote  to  Cecil,  representing  that  some 

August  1559,  addressed  by  Sir  James  aid  should  be  granted,  along  with  the 

Crofts  to  Knox,  mentioning  that  Sadler  sum  of  2000  or  3000  crowns,  to  relieve 

and   himself  were   desirous  "  to  have  the   Protestant    pai-ty  in    Scotland  in 

som  conference  eyther  with  Mr.  Henry  their  present  necessities  :   see  page  35, 

Balnaves,   or  som   other   discrete  and  note  2. 

trusty  man,  for  the  better  expedicion  -  In  MS.  G,  "  being  sent ; "   in  Vautr. 

of  this  grete   and  weightie   busyness,  edit.,  "sent." 

which   you  have  in  hande ;"   and  sug-  ^  The  sum  of  £1000  sterling,  on  the 

gestiiig,  that  he  should  come  by  sea  to  last  of  October  :  see  note  in  vol.  i.  p.  455. 

Holy  Island,  and  afterwards  to  be  con-  ■*  William  Maitland,  see  s^vpra,  p.  4, 

veyed  in   secret   manner   to   Berwick.  note  2. 


\:>(>i).  THE  REPORIMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  39 

.sliould  contincw  togitlier  witliin  Fytfo,  for  the  same  causses, 
that  advertisscmcntis  myeht  go  fromc  the  one  to  the  other,  as 
neid  requjred.  In  the  negotiationn  of  the  Secretary  Lething- 
tonn  with  the  Quene  and  Coiinsall  of  England,  (in  Avhiclie  he 
travailed  with  no  less  wisdomc  and  faithfulnes  then  happy 
successe,)  mony  thingis  occurred  that  rcqnyred  the  resolutioun 
of  the  hole  Lordis,i  anianges  which  thair  was  one  quhairof 
hcfoir  no  mentioun  is  maid. 

Efter  that  the  Quene  and  Counsall  of  England  had  con- 
cluded to  send  thair  army  into  Scotland,  for  expelling  of  the 
Frenche,  the  Duke  of  Northfolk  was  sent  to  Benvyk,^  with  full 
instructionis,  power,  and  commissioun,  to  do  in  all  thingis  con- 
cerning- the  present  eifaris  of  Scotland,  as  mycht  the  Quene 
and  Coiinsellis  in  thair  awin  personis'^  do.  Heirupoun  the 
said  Duke  requyred  sicke  a  pairt  of  the  Lordis  of  Scotland,  as 
had  power  and  commissioun  from  the  whole,  to  meet  him  at 
suche  day  and  place  as  pleised  thame  to  appoint.  This  adver- 
tissement  came  first  to  Glaskow,  hy  the  meanis  of  the  Maister 
of  Maxwell.  Quhilk  redd  and  considdered  by  the  Lordis,  con- 
clusioun  was  takin,  that  thei  wald  meitt  at  Carleill  ;^  and 
that  was  the  procurement  of  the  said  Maister  of  Maxwell,  for 
his  ease.  Heirupoune  war  letteris  direct  fra  the  Lordis,  lyeing- 
in  Glaskow,  to  Lord  James,  requyring  him,  with  all  possible 
expeditioun,  to  repair  towardis  thame  for  the  pin-pois  foirsaid. 
Which  letteris  redd  and  advised  upoun,  commandment  was 
gevin  to  Jhone  Knox  to  mak  the  answer :   For  so  it  was  aj)- 

1  In  MS.  1566,  "holye;"  in  MS.  G,  in  Hayncs's  Collection  of  Original  State 

"  haill."  Papers,   from   the   Cecil   or   Burghley 

*The  Queen's  letter  to  Sadlei-,  inti-  Papers.    (Lond.  1740,  folio.)    Sii- Kalph 

mating   the   appointment   of  the  Duke  Sadler  has  also  preserved  several  other 

of  Norfolk  as  Lord  Lieutenant  in  the  letters  of  a  less   public  nature :    see 

Northern  Counties,  is  dated  the  last  of  note  by  Sir  Walter  Scott,    in  Sadler, 

December  1559.     He  ari-ived  at  Ne'w-  vol.  i.  p.  718. 

castle  on  the  6th  or  7th  of  January.  ^  In  MS.  G,  "  thair  awin  proper  per- 

The  whole  of  his  correspondence  with  sons." 

the  Privy  Council  of  England,  while  he  '^  The  town  of  Carlisle, 
exercised  that  office,  has  been  printed 


40  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

pointed  at  the  devisioun  of  tlie  Lordis,  that  he  should  answer 
for  the  pairte  of  thoise  that  war  in  Fyffe  ;  and  Maister  Henrye 
Bahiaves  for  the  pairte  of  thame  that  abaide  at  Glaskow. 
The  said  Jhone  answered  as  foUowis: — 

"  To  THE  Lord  Duke  his  Gtrace,  and  the  Lordis 

AT  GlaSKOW. 

"  After  huniill  commendatioun  of  my  service.  Albeit  I 
liave  writtin  ofter  then  anes  to  Mr.  Henrye  Balnaves,  what 
thingis  have  myslyked  me  in  youre  slaw  proceideings,  alsweill 
in  supporting  youre  brethrein,  quho  many  dayes  have  sustained 
extreame  danger  in  these  pairtes,  as  in  making  provisioun 
how  the  ennemye  mycht  have  bein  annoyed,^  quho  lay  in  few 
nomber  nye  to  youre  quarteris  in  Striveling;  and  in  making 
lykewayis  provisioun,  how  the  expectatioun  of  your  freindis, 
quho  long  have  awaited  for  youre  answer,  mycht  have  bein 
satisfied ; — Albeit,  (I  say,)  that  of  thoise  thingis  I  have  befoire 
complained,  yet  of  verry  conscience,  I  am  compelled  to  signifie 
unto  youre  Honoris,  that  onless  of  these,  and  other  inormiteis, 
I  sail  espye  some  redress,  I  am  assured  that  the  end  shalbe 
suche  as  godlie  men  shall  murne,  that  ane  good  cause  shall 
perishe  for  lack  of  wisdome  and  diligence.  In  my  last  letteris 
to  Mr.  Henrye  Balnaves,  I  declared,  that  youre  especiall  freindis 
in  England  wounder  that  no  gritter  expeditioun  is  maid,  the 
weycht  of  the  mater  being  considdercd.  Gif  the  fait  be  in  the 
Lord  Duke,  and  his  freindis,  I  wrait  also,  that  the  greatest  loss 
should  be  his  and  thairs  in  the  end.  And  now,  I  can  nott 
cease,  boyth  to  wonder  and  lament,  that  youre  hoile  Counsall 
was  so  destitute  of  wisdome  and  discretioun  as  to  charge  this 
poore  man,  the  Priour,^  to  come  to  you  to  Glaskow,  and 
thairefter  to  go  to  Carleill,  for  suche  effearis  as  ar  to  be 
entreated.     Was  thair   none   amangis   you,  quho  did   foirsee 

1  In  the  MS.  of  1566,   "anoyned;"  ^  Lo^d  James  Stewart,  Prior  of  St. 

MS.  0.  has  "  anoyit."  Andrews :  see  vol.  i.  p.  2-1'J,  note  5. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  41 

(juliat  inconvenientis  mycht  inscw  his  absence  frome  these 
partis  ?  I  cease  to  speake  of  the  daiigcris  in  the  ennemy. 
Youre  freindis  have  lyen  in  the  Frith  now  xv.  dayis  bypast, 
(what  was  thair  formar  travaill  is  nott  unknawin)  ;  thei  have 
never  receaved  conforte  of  any  man  (him  only  excepted),  more 
then  thei  had  lyen  upoun  the  coast  of  thair  mortall  ennemye. 
Do  ye  nott  considder,  that  suchc  a  companye  sail  neide  con- 
forte  and  j)rovisioun  from  tyme  to  tyme?  Remove  him,  and 
quho  abydeth  that  cairfullie  will  travaill  in  that  or  any  uther 
wechty  materis  in  these  pairtis  ?  Did  ye  nott  farther  con- 
sidder, that  he  had  begune  to  meddle  with  the  gentilmeni  who 
had  declaired  thameselfis  unfreindis  heirtofoir ;  and  also  that 
ordour  wald  have  bein  tackin  for  suche  as  haif  bein  neutrall : 
now,  be  reassoun  of  his  absence,  the  one  shall  escaip  without 
admonitioun,  and  the  other  shalbe  at  thair  formare  libertie  ? 
I  am  assured  that  the  ennemye  sail  nott  sleip,  neatlier  in  that 
nor  in  uther  effairis,  to  undermynd  you  and  your  lioile  caus  ; 
and  especiallie  to  hurte  this  pairt  of  the  countrey  to  revenge 
thair  formare  foly.  Gif  none  of  these  formar  causses  should 
have  moved  you  to  have  considered  that  such  a  journay  (at 
suche  a  tyme,)  wes  nott  meet  for  him,  neather  yit  for  thame 
that  must  accompany  him ;  yit  discreit  men  wald  have  con- 
siddered,  that  the  men  that  have  lyen  in  thair  jackes,  and 
travailled  thair  horse  continuallie  the  space  of  a  moneth, 
roquyreth  some  longer  rest,  boyth  to  thame  selfis,  but  espe- 
ciallie to  thair  horsses,  (befoire  thei  had  bein  charged  to  suche 
a  journey,)  then  yitt  they  have  had.  The  Priour  may,  for 
satisfactioun  of  your  unreasonable  jnyndis,  interpryse  the  pur- 
posse  ;  but  I  am  assured,  he  shall  nott  be  able  to  have  sex 
honnest  men  in  all  Fyiff  to  accompany  him :  And  how  that 
eather  standis  with  youre  Honoris,  or  with  his  safetie,  juge  ye 
youre  selfis.  But  yitt,  wonder  it  is,  that  ye  did  nott  considder, 
to  quhatt  paine  and  fascherie  shall  ye  putt  yoiire  freindis  of 

^  Sec  notes  to  pages  7  and  43-4. 


42  THE  HISTORY  OF  Buok  III. 

England,  especiallie  the  Duke  of  Xortlifolko,  and  Ins  Counsall, 
wbome  ye  shall  caus  travaile  the  most  wearesoiim  and  fas- 
selious  gaitt  that  is  in  England.  In  my  opiuioun,  quhosoever 
gaif  vou  that  eounsall  eather  laicked  rycht  judgement  in 
thingis  to  be  done,  or  ellis  had  too  much  respect  to  his  awin 
ease,  and  too  small  regaird  to  the  travaill  and  danger  of  thair 
hretherein.  A  comoun  cause  requireth  a  comoun  concur- 
rance,  and  that  everie  man  beare  his  burdein  proportionablie. 
But  prudent  and  indifferent  men  espy  the  contrair  in  this 
caus,  especiallie  of  lait  dayis ;  for  the  weakest  ar  maist 
grcavouslie  charged,  and  to  quhome  the  mater  maist  be- 
longeth,  and  to  quhome  justlie  greatest  burthein  is  dew,  ar 
exempted  in  a  manor  boyth  from  travaill  and  expensses.  To 
speik  the  mater  plainlie,  wyse  men  do  Avonder  what  my  Lordis 
Dukis  freindis  do  meane,  that  thei  ar  so  slaike  and  backward 
in  this  caus :  In  uther  actionis,  thei  have  bein  judged  stout 
and  fordward ;  and  in  this,  whiche  is  the  greatest  that  ever  he 
or  thei  had  in  hand,  thei  appeir  destitut  bayth  of  grace  and 
of  courage.  I  am  nott  ignorant,  that  thei  that  are  most  inward 
of  his  eounsall  ar  ennemyes  to  God,  and  thairfoire  can  nott 
bot  be  ennemyes  to  his  cause.  But  wounder  it  is,  that  he 
and  his  uther  freindis  should  nott  considder,  that  the  tinsale 
of  this  godlie  interpryse,  shalbe  the  routing  of  thame  and 
thair  posteritie  frome  this  realme.  Considdering,  my  Lordis, 
that  by  Goddis  pro\ddence  ye  ar  joyned  with  the  Dukis  Grace 
in  this  comoun  cause,  admonishe  him  plainlie  of  the  danger  to 
cum :  will  him  to  beware  of  the  counsale  of  those  that  ar 
plainlie  infected  with  superstitioun,  with  pryde,  and  with  ven- 
nome  of  particulare  proifeit ;  whiche  gif  he  do  not  at  your 
admonitioun,  he  shall  smarte,  befoir  he  beware :  and  gif 
ye  cease  to  putt  him  in  mynd  of  his  deutie,  it  may  be  that,  for 
youre  silence,  ye  shall  drynk  some  portioun  of  the  jilague  with 
him.  Tak  my  plaine  speking,  as  proceeding  from  him  that  is 
nott   youre    ennemyo,    being    also   unceartaine    wlien    I    shall 


loGO.     .  THE  llEFOKiMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  43 

])avc  occasioun  to  writt  liearecafter.  God,  tlie  Father  of  oure 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  assist  you  with  the  spreit  of  wisdome  and 
fortitude,  that  to  his  glorie,  and  to  youre  Lordschipis  and  oure 
comraoun  conforte,  ye  may  performe  that  thing,  which  godlie 
wes  ones  begun.  Amen.  From  Sanctandrois,  the  vj.  of  Feb- 
ruare,  in  haist,  1559.^ 

(Sic  suhscribitiir,) 
"  Your  Lordschipis  to  command  in  godliness, 

"  J.  K/' 

Upoun  the  receatt  of  this  letter,  and  consultatioun  had 
thairapoun,  new  conclusioun  was  tackin :  to  witt,  that  thei 
wald  viseit  the  said  Duke  of  Northfolke  at  Berwyke,^  quhair 
lie  was. 

Thus  far  have  we  digressed  fra  the  style  of  the  Historic,  to 
lett  the  posteritie  that  shall  follow  understand,  by  quhat  in- 
strumentis  God  wrocht  the  familiaritie  and  freindschipe,  that 
after  we  fand  in  Ingland.  Now  we  returne  to  oure  formare 
Historic. 

The  pairtis  of  Fyiff  sett  at  fredome  frome  the  bondage  of 
those  bloodie  wormes,  solempned  thankis  war  gevin,  in  Sanct- 
androis, unto  God  for  his  mychtie  delyverance.  Schorte  after 
the  Erlle  of  Arrane  and  Lord  James,  apprehended  the  Lardis 
of  Wemes,  Seafeakl,  Balgonye,  and  Durye,^  and  utheris,  that 

1  That  is  1559-60.  In  MS.  G.  and  'SYishart  of  Pittarrow,  and  Henry  Bal- 
Vautr.  edit,  this  letter  is  dated  "  the  6th  naves,  had  been  appointed  by  the  whole 
of  Februare  in  haist."  In  the  former  Council  to  meet  Tvith  the  Duke  of  Xor- 
it  is  signed,  "  Your  Grace's,  &c. —  folk  at  Berwick,  on  the  23d  of  that 
JoHNE  Knox."  The  MS.  1566,  makes  month.  (State  Papers,  vol.  i.  p.  704.) 
it  "  the  5th  of  Februarie,  in  Christ."  ^  In  MS.  G,  "Balgone,  Durie;"   in 

2  Thomas  Randall  -vn-ote  to  Sadler  MS.  1566,  "  Bawgane,  Druye." — Supra 
from  Glasgow,  on  the  10th  February  page  7,  Knox  alluding  to  the  ravages 
1559-60,  mentioning  that  the  Lords  of  committed  by  the  French  on  the  coast 
the  Congregation  had  come  to  that  of  Fife,  in  the  beginning  of  1560,  say.?, 
town  to  consult ;  and  that  Lord  James,  they  did  not  spare  even  their  own 
Lord  Ruthven,  the  ^Master  of  Maxwell,  friends,  the  Laii-ds  of  Scafield,  Wemyss, 


44 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  III. 


assisted  the  Frenclie  ;  but  tliei  war  sett  sclioirtlie  at  fredome, 
upoun  suche  condition  is  as  thei  mynded  never  to  keape  :  for 
sick  men  have  neather  fayeth  nor  honnestie.  Mr.  James  Bal- 
foure/  who  was  the  greatest  practiser,  and  had  drawn  the 
band  of  the  Balfouris,  eschaiped.  The  Ingliss  schippis  daylie 
multiplied,  till  that  thei  war  able  to  keape  the  whole  Firth : 
whairatt  the  Frenche  and  Quene  Regent,  enraged,  begane  to 
executt  their  tirranye  upoun  the  pairtes  of  Lowthiane  that 
lay  neye  to  Edinburgh.  Lett  Mr.  David  Berth  wick  5  witnesse 
quhat  favoris^  his  wyife  and  place  of  Adenstoun'''  fand  of  the 
Frenche,  for  all  the  service  that  he  had  maid  to  the  Quene 
Rea-ent. 


Balmuto,  and  Balweary.  In  reference 
to  the  statement  in  the  text,  Sii-  Ralph 
Sadler,  in  a  letter  dated  4th  February 
1559-60,  says,  "  In  Fife,  all  suche  gentle- 
men as  were  of  any  power  or  creditt, 
that  tooke  ony  parte  with  the  Tranches, 
as  the  Lorde  of  Wymes,  the  Lorde  Ba- 
werye,  Syfeld,  Bagonye,  and  other, 
have  promised  their  fidelitie,  and  given 
pledgis  never  to  stand  against  the  Con- 
gregation. This  hath  bene  the  Lord 
James's  action  since  the  Franches  cam 
their  way."  (State  Papers,  vol.  i.  p.  701.) 

The  persons  mentioned  by  Knox, 
(using  Lord  for  Laird,)  I  suppose,  were, 
(1)  Sir  John  Wemyss  of  Wemyss,  the 
ancestor  of  Lord  AVemyss ;  (2)  George 
Moutray  of  Seafield,  the  ruins  of  whose 
castle  or  tower  stands  close  upon  the  sea, 
to  the  west  of  Kinghorn ;  (3)  Andrew 
or  Robert  Lundie  or  Lundin  of  Bal- 
gonie,  in  the  parish  of  Markinch,  a  pro- 
perty that  gives  a  second  title  of  the 
Earl  of  Leven  and  Melville;  and  (4) 
David  Durie  of  Durie,  in  the  parish  of 
Scoonie.  This  property  was  afterwards 
acquired  by  the  father  of  the  emment 
lawyer.  Sir  John  Gibson  of  Durie. 

*  Afterwards  Sir  James  Balfour  of 
Pittendreich  :  see  notes,  vol.  i.  pp.  202, 
235. 


5  Mr.  David  Borthwick  of  Lochill  was 
appointed  Lord  Advocate,  and  one  of 
the  Judges  in  the  Court  of  Session,  on 
20th  October  1573.  He  was  educated  at 
St.  Andrews..  His  name  occurs  among 
the  Determinants,  in  St.  Leonard's  Col- 
lege, in  1525.  He  probably  spent  some 
time  on  the  Continent ;  and  passed  Ad- 
vocate, 1st  March  1549.  He  was  twice 
married ;  Marion  Blyth,  his  first  wife, 
died  24th  March  1570,  (Register  of  Con- 
firmed Testaments.)  His  second  wife, 
Margaret  Gutlu'ie,  having  sui-vived  him, 
married  Mr.  John  Lindesay,  second  son 
of  Sir  David  Lindesay  of  Edzell,  and 
Parson  of  Menmuir.  According  to  Scot 
of  Scotstarvet,  Borthwick  had  acquired 
"many  lands  in  Lothian  and  Fife,  as 
Balnacreiff,  Admiston,  Balcarras,  and 
others;  but  having  infcft  his  sou,  Sir 
James,  therein  ia  his  own  time,  he 
rested  never  till  he  had  sold  all."  Borth- 
wick died  in  January  1581. 

6  In  the  MS.  1566,  incorrectly  written 
"  Berwick,"  and  "  that  favoris." 

'  In  MS.  G,  "  Audistoun."  The  pro- 
perty of  Addiston  is  in  the  parish  of 
Ratho.  It  now  belongs  to  the  Earl  of 
Morton ;  but  the  old  house,  situated  on 
an  elevated  terrace,  was  pulled  down 
a  feAV  years  ago. 


1060.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  45 

In  the  middest  of  Februarie  war  directed  to  England,  frome 
the  Dukis  Grace  and  the  Congregatioun,  the  Lord  James, 
Lord  Ruthven,  the  Maister  of  Maxwoill,  tlie  Maister  of  Lynd- 
say,  Maister  Henrye  Bahiaves,  and  the  Laird  of  Pittarrow  ; 
who,  with  thair  honnest  cumpanyeis  and  commissioun,  depart- 
ed by  sea,  all,  except  the  Maister  of  Maxwell,  to  Berwick, 
whair  thair  mett  thanie  the  Duke  of  Northfolke,  lievetennent 
to  the  Quenis  Majestic  of  England,  and  with  him  a  great  com- 
pany of  the  gentillmen  of  the  north,  with  some  also  of  the 
south,  having  full  power  to  contract  with  the  nobillitie  of 
Scotland,  as  that  thei  did,  upoun  sucho  conditionis  as  in  the 
same  Contract  are  specified.  And  becaus  we  have  hard  the 
malicious  tounges  of  wicked  men  mak  false  reporte  of  that  our 
fact,  we  have  faithfullie  and  trewlie  inserted  in  this  oure  His- 
torie  the  said  Contract,  alsweill  thatt  whiche  was  maid  at 
Leytli,  during  the  seige,  as  that  whiche  first  was  maid  at 
Berwick,  that  the  memorie  thereof  may  byde  to  our  posteritie  ; 
to  the  end  that  thei  may  judge  with  indifierence,  whither  that 
we  have  doun  ony  thing  prejudiciall  to  our  comoun  wealth,  or 
yitt  contrarius  unto  that  debtfull  obedience  whiche  trew  sub- 
jects aw  to  thair  supperiouris  whose  authoritie  aucht  to  deflend 
and  mainteine  the  libertie  and  fredome  of  the  Realmes  com- 
mitted to  thair  charge ;  and  nott  to  ojjpress  and  betray  the 
same  to  strangearis.     The  tennour  of  oure  Contract  folio  wis  : — 

The  Contract  at  Berwick. 
"  James  Duke  of  Chastelarault,  Erlle  of  An-ane,  Lord 
Hamyltoun,  second  persone  of  the  realme  of  Scotland,  and 
appearand  [air]  to  the  Croune,  the  Counsaile,  Nobilitie,  and 
principall  Estaittis  of  the  same:  To  all  and  sindrie,  whais 
knawlege  thir  presentis  shall  come,  greitting.  We  have  weill 
considerat,  and  be  fuUie  persuaded  in  what  danger,  desolatioun, 
and  miserie,  the  lang  enm}i:ie  with  the  kingdome  of  Ingland, 
hath  brocht  oure  Countrcy  heirtofoir :  how  wcchtie  and  florish- 


46  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

ing  it  sliall  become,  gif  those  two  king-domes,  as  tliei  be  joy  nod 
in  one  Hand  by  creatiomi  of  the  warld,  so  may  be  knytt 
in  a  constant  and  assured  friendschip  :  These  considerationis, 
groundit  upoim  a  most  infallible  treuth,  aucht  no  less  to  have 
moved  our  progenitouris  and  foirfatheris  then  us  :  but  the 
present  danger  hanging  over  oure  heades,  by  the  injust  deal- 
ing of  those  of  whome  we  have  alwayis  best  deseiTed,  hatlie 
caused  us  to  wej  thame  more  earnestlie  then  thei  did.  The 
misbehaveour  of  the  Frenche  ministerisl  heere  hatlie  of  laitt 
zeris  beine  so  greatt ;  the  oppressioun  and  crueltie  of  the  sol- 
diouris,  the  tyranny  and  ambitioun  of  thair  supperiouris  and 
rewlleris  so  greavouse  to  the  people ;  the  viollent  subversioun  of 
our  libertie,  and  conqueast  of  the  land,  whair  at  thei  have  by 
maist  craftie  and  subtile  meanes  continuallie  preassit,^  so  intol- 
lerable  to  us  all,  that  at  last,  when  we  could  nott  obteane  the 
redresse  by  humill  suit  is  and  earnest  supplicationis  presented 
to  the  Queue  Dowager,  Avho  baytli  for  deuties  saik  and  place 
scho  did  occupy,  audit  to  have  bene  most  cairfull  of  oure 
estait ;  we  have  bene  by  verry  necessitie,  constrained  nott  only 
to  assay  our  awin  forces,  but  also  to  imploir  the  Quenis  Ma- 
jestie  of  England  aide  and  supporte,  quliilk  hir  Majestic  lies 
maist  gentillic  granted  upoun  certaine  covenantes,  sj)ecified 
in  ane  Treaty,  past  at  Berwick,  betuix  the  Duck  of  Northfolk 
his  good  Grace,  Lievtennent  for  hir  Majestie,  on  that  ane 
pairte,  and  ceartaine  our  Commissioneris,  on  that  utlier  parte  : 
Whairof  the  tennour  followeth  : — 

"  At  Berwick,  the  twentie  sevin  dciy  of  Februare,  the  year 
of  our  Lord  God  J^  Y^  fyftie  and  nyne  yeris.  It  is  appointed 
and  finallie  contracted  betwix  the  noble  and  myelitic  Prince, 
Thomas  Duke  of  Northfolke,  Erlle  Marschell  of  England,  and 
lievtennent  to  the  Quenis  most  excellent  Majestie  of  the  said 
lealmo,  in   the  name  and  behalf  of  hir  Hienes,  on  the  one 

'  111  \'autr.  edit.,  "Frcuchc  monsters."  -  In  MS.  156<3,  "pressed." 


]rA;u.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  47 

pairte,  and  the  lyclit  honorable  Lord  James  StcAvart/  Patrik 
Lord  Ruthven,  Sir  Jhone  Maxweill  of  Terrcglis  knycht,  Wil- 
liam Maitland  of  Lethingtoun  young-er,  Jhone  Wischarte  of 
Pittarrow,  and  Maister  Henry  Balnaves  of  Halhill,  in  the 
name  and  behalf  of  the  noble  and  mychtie  Prince,  James  Duke 
of  Chasteaularault,  second  persone  of  the  realme  of  Scotland, 
and  the  remanent  Lordis^  of  his  parte,  joyned  with  him  in 
this  cause,  for  the  mainteanance  and  defence  of  the  ancient 
rychtes  and  liberteis  of  thair  countrey,  on  the  other  parte, 
in  Forme  as  heireafter  followeth :  That  is  to  say.  That  the 
Quenis  Majestie,  having  sufficientlie  understanded,  alsweill  by 
information  sent  from  the  Nobilitie  of  Scotland,  as  by  the 
[manifest]  proceadings  of  the  Frenche,  that  thei  intend  to 
conqueir  the  realme  of  Scotland,  suppress  the  liberties  thair- 
of,  and  unite  the  same  unto  the  Croune  of  France  perpetual- 
lie,  contrarie  to  the  Lawis  of  the  same  Realme,  and  to  the 
pactis,  aithes,  and  premisses  of  France ;  and  being  thairto 
most  humblie  and  earnestlie  requyred  by  the  said  Nobilitie, 
for  and  in  name  of  the  hole  Realme,  shall  accept^  the  said 
Realme  of  Scotland,  the  said  Duke  of  Chasteaularault  being- 
declared  by  Act  of  Parliament  in  Scotland  to  be  heyre  aj^pca- 
rand  to  the  Croun  thairof,  and  the  Nobilitie  and  Subjectis 
thairof,  unto  her  Majesties  protection  and  meantenance,  onlie 
for  preservatioun  of  the  same  in  thair  auld  fredomes  and 
liljerties,  and  frome  conquest  during  the  tyme  that  the  mariage 
shall  continue  betwix  the  Queen  of  Scottis  and  the  Frenche 
King,  and  ane  yeare  efter :  and  for  expelling  out  of  the  samin 
realme  of  suche  as  presentlie  and  appearandlie  goeth  about 
to  practise  the  said  conqueist  ;  hir  Majestie  shall  with  all 
speid  send  unto  Scotland  a  convenient  aide  of  men  of  wan*, 

1  Kuox's  amauuen.sis  here  introduces,  coj.'ied  in  ]\IS.  G,  are  omitted  in  Vautr. 

as  a  pareatlietical  explanation,  '■  now  edit. 

Erle  of  Mukay,"  a  clear  proof  of  this  -  In  Ryuier,  &c.,   "  the  remanent  of 

portion  of  the  MS.  having  been  tran-  the  rest  of  the  Lordis." 

scribed  before  1570.    These  words,  also  ^  In  MS.  1500,  '-except." 


48  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

on  horse  and  foote,  to  joyne  with  the  poware  of  Scottis  men, 
with  artelzearie,  munitioun,  and  all  utlier  instrumentes  of 
warr  meitt  for  the  purpoise,  alsweill  by  sea  as  by  land,  nott 
onlye  to  expell  the  present  j^oware  of  Frenche  within  that 
realme,  oppressing  the  same,  hot  also  to  stopp,  als  far  as 
convenientlie  may  be,  all  greater  forces  of  Frenche  to  enter 
thairin  for  the  lyke  purpose ;  and  shall  continue  liir  Majesties 
aide  to  the  said  realme,  Nobilitie,  and  Subjcctis  of  the  same, 
unto  the  tyme  the  Frenche  (being  ennemyes  to  the  said 
realme)  be  utterlie  expelled  hence ;  And  shall  never  transact, 
compone,  nor  aggrie  with  the  Frenche,  nor  conclude  any 
leigue  with  thame,  except  the  Scottis  and  the  Frenche  shalbe 
aggreit,  that  the  Realme  of  Scotland  may  be  left  in  dew 
fredome  by  the  Frenche  ;  Nor  shall  leave  the  maintenance  of 
the  said  Nobilitie  and  Subjectis,  quhairby  thei  mycht  fall  as 
ane  pray  unto  thair  ennemeis  handis,  alse  lang  as  thei  shall 
acknowlege  their  Soveraine  Lady  and  Queue,  and  shall  indure 
thameselfis  to  mainteine  the  libertie  of  thair  country,  and 
the  estait  of  the  Croun  of  Scotland  :  And  if  in  caise  any  fortis 
or  strenthis  within  the  realme  be  wonne  out  of  the  handis 
of  the  Frenche  at  this  present,  or  at  any  tyme  heareafter, 
by  hir  Majesties  aide,  the  same  shalbe  immediatlie  demo- 
lished by  the  Scottis  men,  or  delyvered  to  the  said  Duck  and 
his  partie  foirsaid,  at  thair  optioun  and  clioise ;  neather  shall 
the  power  of  England  fortifie  within  the  ground  of  Scotland, 
being  out  of  the  boundis  of  England,  but  be  the  advyse  of 
the  said  Duck,  Nobilitie,  and  Estaites  of  Scotland. 

"  For  the  quhilkis  causses,  and  in  respect  of  hir  Majesties 
most  gentle  clemencie  and  liberalle  supporte,  the  said  Duck, 
and  all  the  Nobillitie,  alsweill  suche  as  be  now  joyned,  as 
suche  as  shall  heircaftcr  joyne  with  him  for  defence  of  the 
libertie  of  that  Realme,  shall,  to  the  utermaist  of  thair 
powar,  aide  and  supporte  hir  Majestie's  amie  aganis  the 
Frenche,   and   thair   partaikaris,  with  horse  men,   and   foote 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  49 

men,  and  with  victuallis,  by  land  and  b}"  sea,  and  Avith  all 
maner  of  utlier  ayde  to  the  best  of  thair  powar,  and  so  shall 
continue  during  the  tyme  that  hir  Majesties  armye  shall 
remaine  in  Scotland. 

Item,  Thei  shalbe  ennemyes  to  all  such  Scottis  men  and 
Frenche,  as  shall  in  anywyse  shaw  tliame  selfis  ennemyes 
to  the  realme  of  Ingland,  for  the  aiding  and  supporting  the 
said  Duck  and  Nobilitie,  to  the  delyverie  of  the  Realme  of 
Scotland  frome  conqueist. 

Item,  Thei  shall  never  assent  nor  permitt,  that  the  Realme 
of  Scotland  shalbe  conquered,  or  utherwyse  knett  to  the 
Croun  of  France,  then  it  is  at  this  present  only  by  mariage 
of  the  Quene  thair  Soveraine  to  the  Frenche  King,  and  by 
the  lawes  and  liberties  of  the  Realme,  as  it  aucht  to  be. 

Item,  In  caise  the  Frenche  men  shall,  at  any  tyme  heir- 
after,  invaid,  or  caus  to  be  invaded,  the  realme  of  England 
thei  shall  fournishe  the  nomber  of  twa  thousand  horsmen  and 
twa  thousand!  footmen,  at  the  least,  or  suche  parte  of  ather 
of  thame,  at  the  choise  of  the  Queues  Majestie  of  England  ; 
and  shall  conduct  the  same  to  pas  frome  the  Bordaris  of 
Scotland  nixt  Ingland,  upon  hir  Majesties  charges,  to  anie 
pairte  upoune  the  realme  of  England,  for  the  defence  of  the 
same.  And  in  caise  the  invasioun  be  upon  the  nortlie  partes 
of  England,  on  the  northe  parte  of  the  water  of  Tyne,  to 
wardis  Scotland,  or  against  Berwick,  on  the  north  syd  of  the 
water  of  Tweid,  thei  shall  convent  and  gather  thair  haill 
forces  upon  thair  awin  charges,  and  shall  joyne  Avith  the 
Ingliss  poware,  and  shall  contenew  in  goode  and  earnest  pro- 
secutioun  of  the  quarrell  of  England,  during  the  space  of 
thretty  dayis,  or  so  muche  langer  as  thei  ware  accustumed  to 
tarye  in  the  feildis  for  defence  of  Scotland,  at  the  commandi- 
ment  of  thair  Soverane,  at  any  tyme  bypast. 

And  also,  the  Erlle  of  Argyle,  Lord  Justice  of  Scotland,  being 

» In  MS.  1566,  "  ane  thousand;"  JMS.  G.  has  "  200  horsemen  and  1000  foot." 
VOL.  II.  D 


50  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

prescntlic  joyned  with  tlie  said  Duck,  shall  employe  his  force  and 
good  will,  wliair  he  shalbe  requyred  by  the  Queues  Majestie,  to 
reduce  the  north  pairtis  of  Ireland  to  the  perfyte  obedience 
of  England,  conforme  to  ane  mutualle  and  reciproque  contract, 
to  be  maid  betwix  hir  Majesties  lieutenent  or  depute  of  Ire- 
land being  for  the  tyme,  and  the  said  Erlle  ;  quhairin  shalbe 
conteaned  what  he  shall  do  for  his  parte,  and  quliatt  the 
said  lieutennent,  or  depute,  shall  do  for  his  supporte,  in  caise 
he  shall  have  to  do  with  James  Mackonnell,  -^  or  ony  utheris  of 
the  lyles  of  Scotland,  or  realme  of  Ireland  ;  for  performance 
and  sure  heaping  whairof,  tliei  shall  for  thair  pairte  enter  to 
the  foirsaid  Duck  of  Northfolk  the  plaiges  presentlie  named 
by  him,  befoire  the  entrie  of  hir  Majesties  armye  in  Scottis 
ground,  to  remaine  in  England  for  the  space  of  six  monethis, 
and  to  be  exchanged  upoun  delyverance  of  new  hostages,  of 
lyke  or  als  goode  conditioun  as  the  formare  ;  or  being  the 
lauchfulle  sones,  bretheren,  or  heires  of  ony  of  the  Erlles  or 
Baronis  of  Parliament,  that  have,  or  hereinafter  schaw  thame 
selfis,  and  persist  open  ennemyes  to  the  Frenche  in  this  quar- 
rell ;  and  so  forth,  from  sex  monethis  to  sex  monethis,  or 
foure  monethis  to  foure  monethis,  as  shall  best  pleis  the  partie 
of  Scotland ;  and  the  tyme  of  continuance  of  the  hostages 
salbe  during  the  marriage  of  the  Queue  of  Scottis  to  the 
Frenche  King,  and  ane  yeare  efter  the  dissolutioun  of  the 

1  In  the  Cotton.  MS.,   "  Monneil."  by  the  house  of  Argyle."    It  is  further 

Sadler  (State  Papers,  vol.  i.  pp.  431,  added,    that    "  Anne    Cambell,    halfe 

517)  calls  him,  "  James  M'Donell,"  and  syster  to  the  aforesayde  Erie,  the  wife 

"  Macconnell,"  and  says,  8th  Sept.  1559,  to  the  Sherif  of  Bute,  by  whome  she 

that  the  Queen  Regent  had  endeavoured  was  hardlie  entreated ;  ...  by  reason 

to  stir  him,  "  and  others  of  the  Scottish  of  her  hard  usadge  jorneyinge  towards 

Irislu-ic,  against  the  Erie  of  Argyle,"  to  Argeile,   she  was  intercepted  by  the 

prevent  Ai-gyle  from  rendering  aid  to  said  James,  and  marryed ;  by  whome 

his  associates,  the  Lords  of  the  Congre-  she  had  five  sonnes  and  a  daughter." 

gation.  (Miscellany  of  the  Maitland  Club,  vol. 

In  a  Report  on  the  state  of  the  West  iv.  p.  44.)     As  James  Stewart,  Sheriff 

Isles  of  Scotland  drawn  up  by  the  Dean  of  Bute,   had  lawful  issue  by  a  second 

of  Limerick,  in  1595  or  1596,  James  marriage,  he  probably  had  obtained  a 

M'Conncll  is    specially  mentioned    as  divorce  from  his  fii'st  wife, 
having  been  "  holden  in  great  jcalousie 


15G0.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  51 

said  marriage,  iintill  fardcr  ordour  may  be  had  betwix  boyth 
tlie  realmes  for  peace  and  Concorde. 

And,  farder  more,  the  said  Duck,  and  all  the  Nobilitie, 
being  Erlles  and  Barronis  of  Parliament,  joyned  with  him,  shall 
subscryve  and  seall  these  Articles  and  comptis  within  the 
space  of  XX  or  threttie  dayis,  at  the  uttermost,  nixt  following 
the  day  of  the  dely  verance  of  the  said  hostages  ;  and  shall  also 
procure  and  persuad  all  utheris  of  the  Nobilitie  that  shall 
joyne  tharne  selfis  heirefter  with  the  said  Duck,  for  the 
causses  above  specified,  lykwyis  to  subsciyve  and  seall  these 
articles  at  any  tyme  efter  the  space  of  twentie  dayis  efter 
thair  conjunctioun,  upoun  requisitioun  maid  to  thame  on  the 
partie  of  the  Queues  Majestie  of  England. 

And,  finallie,  the  said  Duck,  and  the  Nobilitie  joyned 
with  him,  certainlie  perceaving,  that  the  Quenis  Majestie  of 
England  is  thairunto  moved  onlie  upoun  respect  of  prince- 
lie  honour  and  nychtbourehead,  for  the  defence  of  the  fre- 
dome  of  Scotland  from  conqueist,  and  not  of  any  uther 
sinister  intent,  doeth  by  these  presentis  testifie  and  declair, 
that  [neither]  thai,  nor  any  of  thame,  meane  by  this  compt 
to  MT^thdraw  ony  dew  obedience  to  thair  Soveraine  Lady  the 
Quene,  nor  in  any  lefuU  thing  to  withstand  the  Frenche 
King,  hir  husband  and  head,  that  during  the  marriage  shall 
nott  tend  to  the  subversioun  and  oppressioun  of  the  just  and 
ancient  liberties  of  the  said  kingdome  of  Scotland ;  for  pre- 
servatioun  whairof,  boyth  for  thair  Soveranis  honour,  and  for 
the  continuance  of  the  kingdome  in  ancient  estait,  thei  ac- 
knowlege  thameselfis  bound  to  spend  thair  guidis,  landis,  and 
lyA^es.  And  for  performance  of  this  present  Contract  for  the 
part  of  England,  the  Queues  Majestie  shall  confinne  the  same, 
and  all  clauses  thairinto  contained,  by  hir  letteris  patentis, 
under  the  Great  Seall  of  England,  to  be  delyvered  to  the 
Nobilitie  of  Scotland,  upon  the  entress  of  the  pledges  afoir- 
said  within  the  ground  of  England. 


52  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

[In  witnes  wlieirof,  the  Commissionaris  for  the  Ducke  of 
Chasteaularault  and  Nobilitie  of  Scotland  befoir  named,  haif 
subscrj^^ed  these  presentis,  and  thereunto  affixed  their  seales, 
the  day,  zeare,  and  place  afoirsaidis : — 

James  Stewart. 

Patrick  L.  Ruthwen. 

JoHNE  Maxwell. 

W.  Maitland. 

Jhone  Wyshart. 

Henricus  Balnaves.] 

In  Avitnes  quhairof,  the  said  Duck  his  Grace  of  North- 
folke,^  hath  subscryved  these  presentis,  and  thairinto  affixit 
his  seall,  the  day,  yeare,  and  place  foirsaid. 

[Tho.  Norffolk.] 

Wliiche  Contract  we  find  honest,  reassonable,  and  that  our 
saidis    Commissioneris  thair  hathe  consideratlie  respected  to 

1  Knox  has  here  inserted  the  Articles  of  these  Articles,  from  a  minute  en- 
of  the  Convention  at  Berwick,  27th  Feb-  dorsed  by  Secretary  Cecil,  and  printed 
ruary  1559-60,  as  confirmed  by  the  among  the  Burghley  State  Papers,  p. 
Duke  of  Chattelherault,  at  Leith,  10th  253,  omits  the  testing  clause  altogether. 
May  1560,  "  after  the  incoming  of  the  In  the  same  volume,  there  is  a  letter 
English  armies,"  (Calderwood's  Hist.  from  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  to  the  Privy 
vol.  i.  p.  578.)  In  this  confirmation  the  Council,  last  of  February,  stating, — 
signatures  of  the  Scotish  Commissioners  "  that  these  three  dales  have  we  been 
to  the  Articles  are  omitted,  as  the  copy  in  conference  and  consultation  with  the 
it  embodied  was  that  exchanged  with  Lords  of  Scotland,  upon  this  gi-eat  and 
the  said  Commissioners,  and  attested  by  weighty  matter."  Copies  of  tliis  Con- 
Thomas  Duke  of  Norfolk,  Earl  Maris-  vention  are  also  preserved  among  the 
chal  of  England,  as  Commissioner  from  Cotton.  MSS.  Calig.  B.  ix.  fol.  34,  and 
Queen  Elizabeth.  The  original  Articles,  B.  x.  fol.  69.  The  Commission,  dated 
with  the  signatures  of  the  Scotish  Com-  29th  March  1560,  added  to  one  of  these 
missioners,  as  given  in  the  text  above,  MSS.,  has  the  following  marginal  note  by 
along  with  the  clause  enclosed  within  Sir  Robert  Cotton  : — "  It  seems  by  the 
brackets,  are  inserted  in  Rymer's  Foede-  Commission  given  by  the  Queen  for  con- 
ra,  etc.,  vol.  xv.  p.  569;  edit.  1740,  vol.  vi.  firmation  of  these  Articles,  dated  in  the 
par.  iv.  p.  05,  under  this  title,  "Convcn-  month  of  March  following,  that  this 
tiones  Scotorum  contra  Reginam  Union-  treaty  was  concluded  before  the  Queen 
em  Franciae  et  Scotioe  designantem,  et  would  openly  profess  herself  a  party, 
pro  Dcfensione  contra  Francos."   A  copy  which  is  to  be  noted." 


TIONIS. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  53 

the  comoun  wealth  of  this  realme,  of  us,  and  our  posteritie ; 
and  thairfoire  do  ratifie,  allow,  confimie,  and  approve  the  same, 
with  all  clauses  and  articles  thairin  contained,  by  thir  pre- 
sentis. 

In  witnes  heirof,  to  the  same  subsciys^ed  with  our  handis, 
our  seallis  of  amies,  in  sick  caises  accustomed,  are  append- 
ed. At  the  camp  foiranent  Leyth,  the  tent  day  of  May, 
the  year  of  God  J™  V  and  thriescoir  yearis. 

(Follow  the  Suhscriptionis.  i) 

The  Duck  of  Chasteau-  Erle  op  Argyle.  «umcrip. 

LARAULT.  Lord  Borthwick. 

Earle  of  Arrane.  Lord  James  Stewarte. 

Earle  of  Huntlie.  Lord  of  Sanct  Jhone. 

Earle  of  Glencarne.  Alexander  Gordoun. 

Earle  of  Mortoun.  Lord  Jhone  of  Aber- 
Earle  of  Rothess.  brothok.2 

Earle  of  Mounteith.  Lord  Boyde. 

Lord  Ogulvie.  Lord  Sommervaill. 

Lord  Ochiltrie.  Abbot  of  Kinloss. 

Lord  Robert  Stewarte.  Abbot  of  Culross. 

Gawin  Hamyltoun  of  James  Stewart  of  Sanct 

KlLWYNING.^  CoLMES  InCHE.^ 

The  Instructionis  gevin,   stjbscryvit  to   the   said  Commis- 

SIONARIS  [that  went  TO  BERWICK,  AR  THIR  As]^  FOLLOW: 

And  for  the  first,  Gif  it  shalbe  askyt  of  yow  be  the  said 
Duck  of  Northfolk  his  Grace,  and  otheris,  [by]  the  Queues  Ma- 

1  These  Subscriptions  obviously  ex-  ^  Commendator  of  Kilwinning, 

hibit  the  names  and  not  the  actual  sig-  *  Commendator  of  the  Monastery  of 

natures  of  the  Subscribers.  Inchcolm,  or  St.  Colme's  Inch. 

"^  Lord  John  Hamilton,  Commendator  *  The  words  enclosed  in  brackets,  are 

of  Abei-brothock.  supplied  from  MS.  G. 


54  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

jesties  appointment,  appointed  Commissionaris,  gif  our  pledges 
be  in  reddines  ?  Ye  shall  answer,  that  thei  ar,  and  in  Sanct- 
androis,  the  xxiiij  of  this  instant,  and  shalbe  reddy  to  delyver 
in  hostages  for  securitie  of  our  premisses,  and  part  of  contract, 
thei  offering  and  macking  securitie  for  thair  part  by  the 
Queues  Majesties  subscriptioun  and  great  sealle,  and  dely\'er- 
ing  the  same  unto  you ;  provyding  that  thei  chuse  and  mack 
thair  electioun  of  the  pledges  as  is  convenient. 

Secoundlie,  Gif  the  saidis  Commissionaris  shall  demand  of 
yow,  what  inteq^ryse  the  armye  of  England  shall  tak  upoun 
hand  at  thair  first  incumminges  ?  Ye  shall  answer,  in  generall 
the  expulsioun  of  the  Frenches  soldiouris  furth  of  this  realme : 
and  first  and  in  specialle  furth  of  the  toun  of  Leyth,  seing 
thair  great  forces  ar  thair. 

3.  Item,  Gif  it  shalbe  askit  of  yow,  at  what  place  our 
freindis  and  bretherin  of  England  shalbe  mett,  and  what  day, 
Avhat  nomber,  and  what  Nobill  men  in  cumpany  ?  Ye  shall  re- 
ferr  all  those  thingis  to  thair  electioun  and  choise. 

4.  Item,  Gif  it  shalbe  askit  of  yow  how  the  armyes  shalbe 
fournisscd  with  victuallis,  and  especiallie  the  horse  men  ?  Ye 
shall  answer,  that  with  thair  advyses  ane  sufficient  order 
shalbe  tackin  thairin. 

5.  Item,  Gif  it  be  requyred,  how  the  munitioun  shalbe  carry- 
ed,  and  oxen  furnissed  to  that  effect  ?  Ye  shall  answer,  as  we 
have  gevin  in  commissioun  to  Lethingtoun,  quhilk  we  ratifie. 

6.  Item,  Gif  it  beis  asked,  wha  shalbe  Lievtennent  to  the 
arniie  of  Scotland  ?    Ye  shall  answer,  my  Lord  Duckes  Grace. 

7.  Item,  Gif  it  shalbe  inquyred,  what  nomber  our  haill  ar- 
mye cxtendis  to  ?  Ye  shall  answer,  thai  will,  God-willing,  be 
fyve  thousand  men. 

8.  Item,  Gif  it  shalbe  askit,  what  manor  of  way  Leyth  shalbe 
assaulted?  Ye  shall  desyrc  all  prcparationis  to  be  in  reddenes, 
and  the  advyse  to  be  taine  after  the  placing  of  the  armyes 
and  view  of  the  strcnth  schoirtlic. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  55 

9.  Item,  Gif  it  slialbc  askit  of  the  Castcll  of  Ediiiburgli,  gif 
tlioi  will  stand  frcindis  or  nott  ?  Ye  shall  dcclair  our  diligence 
maid,  and  to  be  maid  schoirtlie  heirinto ;  but  for  the  present 
can  assure  thame  of  nothing, 

10.  Item,  Gif  it  beis  askit,  in  caise  the  Castell  be  unfriend, 
whair  the  armye  shalbe  placed  ?  Ye  shall  ansueir,  for  the  first 
in  Musselburgh  and  Tranent,  and  thei  partis,  till  the  battery, 
and  all  preparationis  be  in  reddenes. 

11.  Item,  In  caise  it  beis  inquyred  of  all  bye-lyeris,  and  in 
speciall  of  my  Lord  Huntlie,  in  the  North  ?  Ye  shall  ansueir 
in  generall,  ane  goode  hope  is  had  of  the  maist  pairt  thairof ; 
and  tuiching  my  Lord  of  Huntlie  in  speciale,  ye  shall  schaw 
how  he  lies  send  writtingis  to  my  Lord  of  Arrane,  with  ane 
servand  in  creddite,  to  assure  him  of  his  assistance  ;  and  for 
that  cans  lies  desyred  letteris  of  suspensioun  of  the  Queue 
Dowageris  commissioun,  to  be  send  to  him,  to  be  usit  by  him 
in  thei  partis,  and  utheris  letteris  to  arreist  the  Clergies  rentis 
and  licr's^  boyth  in  thei  partis,  with  j)i'oclamationis  to  cause 
all  men  to  be  in  reddines  to  pass  foruardis,  for  mainteiiing  of 
the  religioun  and  expulsioun  of  strangeris.  My  Lord  hes 
writtein  to  him,  that  he  may  come  to  him  in  proper  per- 
sone,  whairof  the  answer  is  nott  returned  as  yitt. 

12.  Item,  Gif  it  shalbe  askit,  the  place  and  manor  of  melt- 
ing of  oure  folkis,  or  of  us  and  thame,  in  caise  Striveling  be 
kept  ?     We  referr  the  ansueir  lieirof  to  youre  discretionis. 

13.  Item,  Gif  it  shalbe  askit  that  tliair  layed  money  shall 
have  passage  for  tliair  viveris  ?  Ye  shall  reasoun  the  commo- 
ditie  and  incommoditie  thairof  with  the  Counsalc.^ 

14.  Item,  Gif  it  shalbe  askit,  what  pioncris  shalbe  had?  Ye 
shall  ansAver,  the  nomber  being  expressed,  and  money  be  in 
reddenes  to  sekF  thame,  thei  shall  have  sufficientlic. 


1  In  MS.   1566,    "hires;"    MS.   G,  ^  iji_  jjg.fj^  u  t^  pay;"  iuVautr.  edit, 

liyres."  "  to  sell,"  ami  in  both  copies,  "  have 

-  In  Vautr.  edit.  "  the  Comishall."  sufficiencic,"  at  the  end  of  the  sentence. 


56  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

15.  Itevi,  Gif  tliei  shall  desyre  that  we  declair  our  cause 
unto  the  Princes  of  Alamagne,  and  the  King-  of  Denmarke,  de- 
syring  thair  assistance  ?  Ye  shall  answere,  that  we  think  the 
same  good,  and  shall  speedelie  tak  ordour  thairwith. 

16.  Item,  Gif  it  shalbe  askit  of  yow  to  confiniie  for  us,  and 
in  oure  name,  the  thingis  past  and  granted  be  oure  formare 
Commissionare  the  young  Laird  of  Lethingtoun?  Ye  shall  in 
all  poyntis  for  us,  and  in  oure  name,  confirme  the  same,  sa 
far  as  it  shall  mak  either  for  the  weiU  and  conjunctioun  of 
the  twa  realmes,  or  this  present  cause,  or  yitt  for  the  securitie 
of  oure  pairt  for  fulfilling  of  the  samein :  and  also,  ye  shall 
accept  thair  offeris,  tending  to  the  same  fyne,  and  sic  se- 
curitie on  that  parte,  as  ye  may  purchese,  and  especiallie  sic  as 
we  heirtofoir  exprimit.  Gevin  at  Glaskow,  the  tent  of  Feb- 
ruar  1559. 

Item,  We  gif  and  grantis  you  full  power  to  augment,  or  di- 
minische  thir  saidis  heidis  and  Articles,  as  ye  think  the  weall 
of  the  cause  sail  requyre  in  all  point  is. 

JOHNNE  OF  MeNTEITH.I  JaMES  HaMYLTOUN. 

AnDRO  of  RoTHESS.  ALEX^  GORDOUN. 

R.  Boyd.  Ar°.  Ergyle. 

WiLLiAME  Murray  of  Tulli-  Glencarne. 

hardin.  Vchiltre. 

Johnne  Erskin  of  Dun.  James  Haliburtoun. 

Schort  cftcr  this  Contract,  war  oure  pledgeis  delyverit  to 
Maister  Winter,  Admirall  of  the  Xavye,  that  came  to  Scotland, 
a  man  of  great  honestie,  sua  far  as  ever  Ave  could  espy  of  him, 
quha  war  saiflic  convopt  to  New  Castell.     And  sua  the  Ingliss 

1  The  names  of  these  Commissioners  ander  Gordon,  Bishop  of  Galloway,  and 

are  mostly  well  known  :-_John  Earl  of  Commendator  of  Inchaflfray,  Archibald 

Menteith,  Andrew  Earl  of  Rothes,  Ro-  Earl  of  Argyle,  Alexander  Earl  of  Glen- 

bert  Lord  Boyd,  Sir  William  Murray  of  cairn,  Andrew  Lord  Ochiltre,  and  James 

TuUibardine,    John   Erskine    of   Dun,  Halyburton,  Provost  of  Dundee. 
James  Hamilton  Earl  of  Ai-ran,   Alex- 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  57 

army  began  to  assembill  towardis  the  Bordour ;  quhairof  the 
Frensche  and  Quene  Regent  assurit,  thay  began  to  distroy 
quhat  thay  could  in  the  tounis  and  euntrey  about ;  for  the 
haill  victuallis  they  careit  to  Leith ;  the  mylnes  thay  brak ; 
the  scheip,  oxin,  and  kyne,  yea,  the  horse  of  poore  lauboraris, 
thay  maid  all  to  serve  thair  tyrannye.  And,  fynallie,  they 
left  na  thyng  quhilk  the  verray  ennemeis  could  have  devisit, 
except  that  thay  demolischit  not  gentilmenis  housses,  and 
brunt  not  the  toune  of  Edinburgh :  in  quhilk  poynt,  God 
brydillit  thair  furye,  to  lett  his  afflictit  understand  that  he  tuik 
cair  for  thame. 

Befoir  the  cuming  of  the  land  armye,  the  Frensche  past 
to  Glasgu,  and  distroyit  the  euntrey  thair  about.  Quhat  crewell 
tyrannye  the  Marty ckis^  usit  upone  ane  poore  Scottis  suldiour,  mIetyckis. 
it  is  feirfull  to  heir,  and  yitt  his  fact  may  not  be  omittit. 
Silver  wald  thay  gif  nana  to  the  poore  men,  and  sua  war  thay 
slow  to  depairt  of  the  toun ;  for  albeit  the  drum  struik,  the 
enseingze  could  not  be  gottin.  Thair  was  ane  poore  craftis 
man,  quha  liaid  bocht  for  his  victuallis  ane  gray  laif,  and  was 
citting  ane  morsell  of  it,  and  was  putting  the  rest  of  it  in 
his  bosome.  The  tyranne  cam  to  him,  and  with  the  poore 
catyveis  awin  quhynger  first  straik  him  in  the  breist,  and 
after  cast  it  at  him,  and  sua  the  poore  man,  stagring  and 
falling,  the  mercyless  tyranne  ran  him  through  with  his  rapper, 
and  thairefter  commandit  him  to  be  hingit  ower  the  stair. 
Lord,  thow  wilt  yitt  luik,  and  recompense  sick  tyrrannye  ; 
how  contemptable  that  ever  the  persoun  was ! 

The  secunde  of  Aprile,  the  yeir  of  God,  J"  V  and  threscoir 
yeiris,  the  army  be  land  enterit  in  Scotland,  the  conducting 
quhairof  was  commitit  to  the  Lord  Gray,^  quha  haid  in  his 
company  the  Lord  Scrope,  Sir  James  Croftis,  Sir  Haiy  Peircey, 

'  See  supra,  page  12,  note  1.  himself  on  several  occasions,  and  who, 

2  WilUam  Lord  Gray  de  Wilton,  "  a       in  1559,  was  appointed  Warden  of  the 
gallant  warrior,"    who    distinguished      Middle  and  Eastern  Marches. 


58 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  III. 


Sir  Francis  Laike,  with  monj  utliir  capitaneis  and  gcntilmen 
having  charge,  sum  of  futnien,  sum  of  horsmen.  The  armye 
be  land  was  esteimit  to  ten  thowsand  men.  The  Queue  Re- 
gent past  to  the  Castell  of  Edinburgh,!  and  sum  utheris  of 
hir  factioun.  2  At  Prestoun  met  thame  the  Duckes  Grace,  the 
Erie  of  Argyle,  (Huntlie  came  not  till  that  the  seige  was  con- 
firmit,)  Lord  James,  the  Erlles  of  Glencairne  and  Menteith, 
Lordis  Ruthwen,  Boyd,  Ochiltre,  with  all  the  Protestantis 
gentilmen  of  the  West  Fyife,  Anguss,  and  Mearneis.  Swa  that 
for  few  dajis  the  armye  was  greit. 

Efter  the  deliberatioun  of  twa  dayis  had  at  Enneresk,^  the 
haill  camp  marchit  fordwart  Avith  ordinance,  and  all  prepara- 
tiouu  necessar  for  the  seige,  and  came  to  Restalrig  upoun 
the  Palme  Sunday  Evin.*      The   Frensche   haid   put   tham- 


1  In  a  letter  to  Sadler,  Randall  writes 
on  the  25tli  January  1559-60, — "  It  is 
thought  that  the  Queue  Douagier  shalbe 
received  very  shortlie  into  the  Castell 
of  Edinburgh,  for  any  travaile  that  can 
be  to  the  contrarie,  with  her  onlie  hows- 
holde  servaunts  and  gentlewoomen." 
Two  months  later,  on  the  28th  March 
1 560,  he  says,  "  It  hath  been  longe  in 
doubte  whether  the  Queue  Douagier 
woolde  either  to  the  Castell  of  Edin- 
bui'gh  or  to  Lythe ;  it  is  saide,  that  it  is 
now  resolved,  that  it  will  to  the  Castell 
this  daye." — (State  Papers,  vol.  i.  pp. 
696,  712.)  That  the  Queen  had  the 
purpose  of  entering  the  Castle  at  the 
time  first  specified,  is  evident  from  an 
incidental  notice  in  the  Treasurer's  Ac- 
counts of  his  having  paid  £8  on  the  26th 
January  1559-60,  "  to  ^Maister  Johne 
Balfour,  for  transporting  of  the  Quenis 
Grace  cofFeris  fra  the  Abbay  of  Halie- 
rudhous  to  the  Castell  of  Edinburgh." 
On  the  same  day,  a  messenger  was  sent 
"  with  clois  writtingis  of  the  Quenis 
Grace  to  Monsr.  Dosell ;"  and  two  days 
later  17s.  Avas  paid  "  to  ane  boy  pas- 
sand  of  Edinburgh,  with  clois  writtingis 


of  the  Quenis  Grace  to  Monsr.  Labrocc, 
rynnand  all  the  nycht."  On  the  last 
of  January,  the  Queen  herself  received 
the  sum  of  £250.  The  actual  date  when 
the  Queen  passed  from  Holyrood  House 
to  the  Castle,  was  the  1st  of  April. 
(Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  pp.  56,  274.) 

2  The  chief  persons  who  remained  in 
the  Castle  of  Edinburgh  with  the  Queen 
Regent,  were  John  Hamilton,  Arch- 
bishop of  St.  Andrews,  William  Earl 
INIarischal,  William  Chisholm,  Bishop  of 
Dunblane,  Robert  Crichton,  Bishop  of 
Dunkcld,  Abraham  Crichton,  Provost 
of  the  Church  of  Douglass,  and  James 
Makgill,  Clerk-Register. — (Lesley's  His- 
tory, p.  284;  Diurnal  of  Occurrents, 
p.  274 ;  Holinshed's  Chronicles,  &c.) 

3  In  MS.  G,  "  Inneresk ;"  in  Vautr. 
edit.,  "  Enresk."  The  village  of  Inver- 
esk  may  be  said  to  form  part  of  Mussel- 
burgh, and  is  situated  on  the  east  side 
of  the  River  Esk,  near  its  confluence 
with  the  Frith  of  Forth,  about  six  miles 
from  Edinbui-gh. 

*  Saturday,  the  6th  of  April,  was  the 
eve  of  Palm  Sunday. 


15G0.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  59 

sclffis  in  battcll  array  iipoun  tlic  Linkis  without  Lcitli,  and 
had  send  furth  thair  skyrmissaris  ;  quha  begynning  befoir  ten 
houris,  contyneuit  skyrmissing  till  after  foure  houris  at  efter 
none,  quhan  thair  was  gevin  upone  thame  ane  charge  bo  sum 
liorsmen  of  Scotland,  and  sum  of  Yngland.  Bot  because 
the  principall  Capitane  of  the  liorsmen  of  Yngland  was  not 
present,  the  haill  troupis  durst  not  charge ;  and  swa  was  not 
the  owerthraw  and  slawchter  of  the  Frensche  sa  greit  as  it 
anis  appeirit  to  haif  bene ;  for  the  greit  battell  was  anis  at 
the  trote  ;  bot  qulien  thay  persevit  that  the  greit  force  of  the 
horsemen  stuid  still,  and  chargeit  not,  thay  returnit  and  gaif 
sum  rescourse  to  thair  fallowis  that  fled ;  and  swa  thair  fell 
onlie  in  that  defait  about  three  hundreth  Frenschmen.  God 
wald  nocht  gif  the  victorie  swa  suddanlie,  leist  that  man  sould 
glorye  in  his  awin  strenth.  The  small  victorie  that  was  gottin, 
putt  baith  the  Yngliss  and  Scottis  in  ower  greit  securitie,  as 
the  ischew  declairit.  The  Frensche  inclosit  within  the  toun, 
the  Yngliss  armye  began  to  plant  thair  palyeanisl  betwix 
Leitli  and  Restalrig.^  The  ordinance  of  the  toun,  and  espe- 
ciallic  that  quhilk  lay  upoun  Sanct  Anthonies  Stepill^  did 

1  In  MS.  G,  and  Vautr.  edit.,  "  pavil-  to  slioote  at  Sanct  Anthonyes  steeple 
Hones."  in  Leith,   upon  the  wbicli   steeple  the 

2  The  village  of  Restalrig  lies  about  Frenche   had   monted    som    artillerie, 
a-mile  to  the  south-east  of  Leith.  which  was  very  noisome  to  the  campe ; 

2  The  building  thus  converted  by  the  bot  witliin  a  few  hours  after,  the  said 

French  troops  iuto  a  place  of  defence,  steeple  was  broken  and  shott  doune ; 

was  the  Hospital  or  Preceptory  of  St.  likewise  they  shott  doune  some  part  of 

Anthony,  founded  by  Robert  Logan  of  the  east  end  of   the  kirk  of  Leith." 

Restalrig,  in  1435.    It  stood  near  the  (Historic  of  the  Estate  of  Scotland,  in 

Kirkgate  Street,  at  the  south-west  cor-  the  Wodrow  Miscellany,  vol.  i.  p.  84.) 

nor  of  what  is  still  called  St.  Anthony's  Another  old  authority  states, — "  Upon 

Wynd ;  and  is  said  to  have  been  the  the  20th  day  [of  April]  the  principell 

only  establishment  in  Scotland  belong-  blokhous  within  Leith,  callit  St  Antho- 

ing    to    the   Canons   of  St.   Anthony.  nies   Kirk,  was  dung  domi  with  can- 

Uuring  the  siege  in  May  1560,  the  build-  nones,  and  also  the  High  Street  where 

ing  was  probably  nearly  all  demolished.  the  viveris  (provisions)  lay,  and  many 

On  the  17th  of  that  month,  the  English  uthcr  houssis  upon  the  cast  syd  of  the 

troops  having  raised  earthen  mounds  toun." — (Lindesay  of  Pitscottie's  Chro- 

for  their  great   ordinance,   "  beganne  nicies.) 


60  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

tliame  greit  annoyance :  aganist  quliilk  place  war  bent  audit 
cannounis,  quhilkis  schott  sa  continewallie,  and  sua  just,  that 
witliin  few  dayis,  that  Stepill  was  condemnit,  and  all  the 
ordinance  that  was  on  it  dismontit,  quhilk  maid  the  Ynglis- 
men  sum  quhat  mair  negligent  than  it  became  guid  men  of 
war  to  have  bene ;  for  persaiving  that  the  Frensche  maid  na 
persute  without  thair  wallis,  they  tuik  oppinioun  that  they 
wald  never  ishe  mair,  and  that  maid  sum  of  the  Capitanis 
for  pastyme,  go  to  the  toun ;!  the  soldiouris,  for  thair  ease,  did 
lay  thair  armour  besyde  thame,  and,  as  men  without  daingear, 
fell  to  the  dice  and  cairtis.  And  sua,  upoun  the  Pasche  Mon- 
onday,2  at  the  verray  hour  of  noon,  the  Frenche  ischeit  baith 
on  horse  and  fute,  and  with  greit  violence,  enterit  in  to  the 
Yngliss  trynscheis,  slew  and  putt  to  flycht  all  that  was  fund 
thairin.  The  watche  was  negligentlie  keipit,  and  so  was  the 
succourse  slow,  and  lang  in  cuming ;  for  the  Frenche,  befoir 
that  any  resistance  was  made  unto  thame,  approcheit  hard  to 
the  greit  ordinance.  Bot  than  the  horsmen  troupit  togidder, 
and  the  futemen  gat  thameselffis  in  array,  and  sua  repulsit 
the  Frenche  back  agane  to  the  toun.  Bot  the  slauchter  was 
greit :  sum  sayis  it  doubill  exceidit  that  quhilk  the  Frenche 
resavit  the  fyrst  day.  And  this  was  the  frute  of  thair  secu- 
ritie  and  oures,  quhilk  efter  was  remeidit ;  for  the  Ynglismen 
maist  wyslie  considdering  thame  selfis  not  abill  to  beseige  the 
toun  round  about,  devysit  to  mak  montis  at  dyverse  quarteris 
of  it,  in  the  quhilk  thay  and  thair  ordinance  lay  in  as  gude 
strenth  as  thay  did  within  the  toun.  The  common  soldiouris 
keipit  the  trynscheis,  and  had  the  said  montis  for  thair  saif- 
gaird  and  refuge,  in  case  of  any  greiter  persute  than  thay 
war  abill  to  sustene.  The  patience  and  stowt  curage  of  the 
Englismen,  bot  principallie  of  the  horsmen,  is  worthy  of  all 
prayse :    for,  quhair   was   it   ever  hard  that  audit  thousand 

1  MS.  G.  has  "  go  upe  to  the  toun  of  ^  Easter  Monday  fell  on  the  15th  of 

Edinburgh."  April. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  Gl 

(thay  never  exceidit  that  number  that  lay  in  camp)  soiild  bc- 
seige  four  thousand  of  the  maist  despairit  throt-cuttaris  that 
were  to  be  found  in  Europe,  and  lye  sua  neir  unto  thame  in 
daylie  skyi-missing,  the  space  of  thre  monethis  and  mair.  The 
horsmen  nyclit  and  day  keipit  watche,  and  did  sa  valiantlie 
behaif  thameselffis,  that  the  Frenche  gatt  na  advantage  fra 
that  day  back  to  the  day  of  the  assault,  quhairof  we  shall 
schortlie  heir. 

In  this  meanetyme  was  this  uther  Band  made  of  all  the 
Nobilitie,  Barronis,  and  Gentilmen,  professing  Chryst  Jesus  in 
Scotland,  and  of  dj^eris  utheris  that  joynit  with  us,  for  ex- 
pelling of  the  Frenche  army ;  amangis  quliam,  the  Erie  of 
Huntlie  was  principall.     The  Band  folio  wis  : — 

[Ane  Contract  of  the  Lords  and  Barons,  to  defend  the 
Liberty  of  the  Evangell  of  Christ.]! 

At  Edinburgh,  the  xxvij  day  of  Aprile,  the  yeir  of  God 
ane  thousand  fjve  hundreth  threescoir  yeiris:  We,  quhais 
namis  ar  underwrittin,  haif  promittit  and  oblist  oure  selffis 
faithfullie,  in  the  presens  of  oure  God,  and  be  thir  presentis 
promittis,  that  we  altogidder  in  generall,  and  every  ane 
of  us  in  speciall,  be  him  selff,  with  oure  bodeis,  guidis, 
freyndis,  and  all  that  we  may  do,  sail  sett  fordwart  the 
Reformatioun  of  Religioun,  according  to  Goddes  word ;  and 
procure,  be  all  meanis  possibill,  that  the  treuth  of  Goddes 

1  In  the  MS.  copies  of  Knox,  this  adopted.  It  was  reprinted  in  the  Appen- 

Band  of  Association  by  the  Lords  and  dix  to  Crawfurd's  Officers  of  State,  p. 

Barons  of  Scotland,  for  setting  forward  444 ;    and  in  Keith's   History,  vol.   i. 

the   Reformation,    is    simply  entitled,  p.  273.     In  all  these  copies,  as  well  as 

"  The  Last  Band  at  Leyth."    It  was  in  Knox,  the  names  of  the  Lords  and 

printed  "  from  the  Original"  at  Hamil-  Barons  who  subscribed  the  Band  are 

ton  Palace,  by  Bishop  Burnet,  in  his  omitted.     A  contemporary  copy  in  the 

History  of  tlie  Reformation,  vol.  iii.  p.  British  IMuseum,  among  the   Harleian 

287.    It  was  probably  not  very  accu-  MSS.  (No.  289.  fol.  70.)  has  enabled  me 

rately  transcribed,  but  some  slight  cor-  to  supply  this  important  omission, 
rections   from  that  work   have    been 


62  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

word  may  liaif  free  passage  within  this  Reahne,  with  due 
administratioun  of  the  sacramentis,  and  all  thingis  depend- 
ing upoun  the  said  word :  And  siclik,  deiplie  weying  with 
cure  selfis  the  misbehavour  of  the  Frenche  Ministeris  heir; 
the  intollerabill  oppressiouns  commitit  be  the  Frenche  men 
of  weir  upon  the  poore  subjectis  of  this  Realme,  by  meyn- 
tenance  of  the  Quene  Dowager,  under  cuUour  and  pretence  of 
authoritie  ;  the  tyrannye  of  thair  Cajntanis  and  leadaris  ;  and 
manifest  danger  of  conqueist,  in  quhilk  this  countrey  pre- 
sentlie  standis,  be  reasoun  of  dyverse  fortificatiouns  upoune 
the  sea-coast ;  and  utlier  novelties  of  lait  attemptit  be  thame  ; 
promittis,  that  We  sail,  als  Aveill  every  ane  with  uther,  as  alto- 
gidder,  with  the  Quene  of  Englandis  armie,  presentlie  cumit  in 
for  oure  delyverance,  effectuallie  concur  and  joyne  togidder, 
taiking  anefald  plane  pairt,  i  for  expulsioun  of  the  said 
strangeris,  oppressouris  of  oure  libertie,  furth  of  this  Realme, 
and  recovery  of  oure  ancient  fredomis  and  liberteis ;  to  the 
end,  that  in  tyme  cuming,  we  may,  under  the  obedience 
of  the  Kyng  and  Quene  our  Soveranis,  be  onlie  rewllit  be 
the  lawis  and  customeis  of  the  cuntrey,  and  borne  men  of 
the  land:  And  that  never  ane  of  us  sail  haif  pryvey  in- 
telligence be  writting,  message,  or  communicatioun  with 
ony  of  oure  saidis  ennemeis  or  adversareis  in  this  cause,  bot 
be  the  advise  of  the  rest  (at  least  of  fyve)  of  the  Counsale. 
Attour,  that  we  sail  tender  the  commun  cause,  as  gif  it  war 
the  cause  of  everie  ane  of  us  in  particular;  and  that  the 
causses  of  everie  ane  of  us  now  joinit  togidder,  being  leifuU 
and  honest,  sail  be  all  oure  causses  in  generall :  And  he 
that  is  cnnemy  to  the  causses  foirsaid,  sail  be  ennemy  to 
us  all :  in  sa  far,  that  quhatsoever  persone  will  planelie 
resist  thir  oure  godlie   interpryseis,    and   will  not  concur  as 

'  In  MS.  G,  "  taking  and  hald  plain       "  taking  one  fold  and  2>laiu  part  of  the 
parte;"   Vautr.  edit,   has  "  take   and      expulsion." 
holde  ane  playne  parte."    In  Burnet, 


15C0. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


ane  guid  and  trcw  member  of  this  Common  weill,  wc  sail 
fortifio  the  auetoritic  of  the  Counsale,  to  reduce  thame  to 
thair  dewitie.  Lyke  as  we  sail  fortifie  the  auetoritic  foir- 
said  of  the  Counsale,  in  all  thyngis  tending  to  the  furtherance 
of  the  said  is  causses  :  And  gif  ony  particular  debait,  quarrell, 
or  contraversie,  sail  arryse,  for  quhatsoever  cause,  bygane,  pre- 
sent, or  to  cum,  betwix  ony  of  us,  (as  God  forbid,)  in  that  caise, 
we  shall  submit  our  selfis  and  oure  saidis  questionis,  to  the 
decisioun  of  the  Counsale,  or  to  arbitratouris  to  be  namit^  be 
thame.  And  providing  alwayis,  that  this  be  not  prejudicial! 
to  the  ordinarie  jurisdictioun  of  Judgeis,  but  that  men  may 
persew  thair  actiouns  by  ordour  of  law  civilie  or  criminallie, 
befor  the  Judges  Ordinaris^  gif  thai  please. 

[In  wytnes  of  the  quhilk  we  have  subscrivit  this  present 
Band  with  our  hands,  day,  zeir,  and  place  above  wryttine. 


KOTA.— 
UEIRUPONE 
CAME  THE 
PERSUTE.l 


James. 

James  Hammylton. 

Huntley, 

Ar".  Argill. 

Glencarn. 

Rothes. 

MORTOUN. 
A.  GORDOUN. 

James  Johnson,  Apparand 

of  Elphistoun. 
Patryk  Dowglass. 
Robert  Campbell. 
Andrew  Jhonson. 
RoBYN  Car. 


James  Stewart. 

Jhon  Montey'^. 

Ruthwen. 

R.  Boyd. 

Ogylwye. 

Vchiltree. 

Jhon  Maxvel. 

Patryk  Lyndsay. 

Jhon  Maister  Phorbes. 

Lord  Somerwell. 

James  Halyburtoun. 

Alex".  Dunbar  of  Gumnok. 

Graytly. 

W".  Douglas  of  Whyttingeym. 

George  Hwme  ofSpott. 


1  In  Vautr.  edit.  "Now  hereupon,"  &c.  'In   Knox    these    four    words    are 

2  In  MS.  G,  "  to  be  maid."  omitted. 


04 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  III. 


Jhon  Gordon,  of  Finlatter. 
Alex''.  Seton,    Younger  of 

Meldrum. 
Henry  Graiiame,  Youngar 

of  Morphy. 
ALEx^  GoRDOUN  of  Ahyr- 

zelde. 
Drumlaynryk. 
Faunhaus.  1 
Craynston  of  that  Ilk. 
Wedderburn. 
ALEX^  Hume. 
Jhonson. 


George  Nysbyt,  with  my 

hand  at  the  pen. 
Cunnynghaymhyd. 
Leslye  of  Bowguhane. 
Jhon  Innes  of  that  Ilk. 
Arthur  Phorbes. 
W".  Lesley  Youngar  of 

Wardes. 
Jhon  Wishart. 
Drumloyghie. 

Cesfuird. 
Hundhill. 
Mark  Kar.] 


THE  DOCH- 
TER  WILL 
NOTTAK 
KXAMPILL 
BY  THE 
MOTHER. 


This  Contract  and  Band  came  not  onlie  to  the  eiris,  bot  als- 
sua  to  the  sycht  of  the  Quene  Dowager  ;  quhairat  sche  stormit 
nott  a  little,  and  said,  "  The  maledictioun  of  God  I  gif  unto 
thame  that  counsaleit  me  to  persecute  the  prechearis,  and  to 
refuise  the  petitiouns  of  the  best  pairt  of  the  trew  subjects  of 
this  realme.  It  was  said  to  me,  That  the  Yngliss  army  could 
not  Ij  in  Scotland  ten  dayis ;  bot  now  thay  [have]  lyin  near 
ane  moneth,  and  ar  mair  lyk  to  remane  than  the  first  day  thay 
came.^'  Thay  that  gaif  sick  informatioun  to  the  Quene,  spak  as 
wardlie  wyise  men,  and  as  thingis  appeirit  to  have  bene  ;  for 
the  cuntrey  being  almaist  in  all  the  partis  thairof  waistit,  the 
victuallis  nixt  adjacent  to  Leith  either  brocht  in  to  thair  pro- 
visioun,  or  ellis  destroyit ;  the  mylnis  and  uther  placeis,  as 
befoir  is  said,  being  cassin  doun,  it  appeirit  that  the  camp 
could  not  have  bene  furnissit  (except  it  haid  bene  by  thair 
awin  schippis,  and  as  that    could    nocht   have   bene  of  ony 


^  I  suspect  some  of  these  names  may 
have  been  mistaken ;  such  as  "  Grayt- 


ly,"  and  "  Faunhaus,"  wliich  an  exami- 
nation of  the  original  might  correct. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  65 

lang-  coiitinewance,  sua  sould  it  have  bene  natliing  con- 
fortable :)  Bot  God  confoundit  all  warldlie  wisdome,  and 
maid  his  awin  benedictioun  als  evidentlie  to  appeir  as  gif  in 
ane  maner  he  had  fed  the  army  from  above.  For  all  kind  of 
victuallis  thair  was  mair  aboundante,  and  of  mair  easie  priceis, 
in  the  camp  all  the  tyme  that  it  lay,  efter  that  aucht  dayis 
war  past,  than  either  thay  haid  bene  in  Edinburgh  any  of  the 


MAIJ,  ANNO 


The  pepill  of  Scotland  sa  mekill  abhorrit  the  tyrrannye  of  the  1^66.  i 
Frenche,  that  thay  wald  have  gevin  the  substance  that  thay 
had,  to  have  bene  ridd  of  that  chargeable  burding,  quhilk  oure 
synnis  had  provockit  God  to  lay  upoun  us,  in  geving  us  in  the 
handis  of  ane  woman,  quhom  our  Nobilitie  in  thair  fulisclines 
sauld  unto  strangearis,  and  with  hir  the  libertie  of  the  Realme. 
"  God,  for  his  greit  mercies  saik,  preseiTe  us  yitt  from  farther 
bondage,  in  the  quhilk  we  ar  lyke  to  fall,  gif  he  provyde  not 
remedy ;  for  oure  Nobilitie  will  yett  remane  blynd  still,  and 
will  folloAv  hir  affectiouns,  cum  efter  quhat  sua  may."  Bot  to 
returne  to  oure  Historie. 

The  campe  abounding  in  all  necessarie  provisioun,  ordour 
was  taikin  for  confirmatioun  of  the  Seige;^  and  sa  the  trynches 
war  drawin  als  neir  the  toun,  as  thay  gudlie  mycht.  The 
greitt  campe  removit  fra  Restalrig  to  the  west  syde  of 
the  Watter  of  Leitli ;  and  sa  war  the  cannounis  plantit  for  the 
batterie,  and  did  schute  at  the  south-west  wall.     But  be  reas- 


1  In  all  the  other  copies  this  marginal  First  Part  of  Churchyarde's  Chippes," 

note  forms  part  of  the  text.     It  is  in  the  (a  kind  of  Poetical  IVIiscellany,)  "The 

same  hand  with  the  MS. :   see  note  1,  Siege  of  Leith,"  -m-itten  in  stanzas  of 

page  68.  seven   lines.     It   was   first   printed   at 

^  In  Holinshed's  Chronicles  is  contain-  London  in  1565;    again  in  1575,   and 

ed  a  minute  account  of  the    Siege  of  1578.    This  poem  referred  to,  is  included 

Leith,  ia  May  1560.     Thomas  Church-  in  the  volume  of  "  Chm-chyard's  Chips 

yard,  the  English  Poet,  who  was  pre-  concerrung  Scotland,"  edited  by  George 

sent  among  the  troops  commanded  by  Chalmers,  Lond.  1817,  8vo. 
Lord  Gray  de  Wilton,  published  in  "'The 

VOL.  II.  E 


66  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

sone  all  was  eird,  the  brek^  was  nott  maid  sa  greit  upoun  the 
day  bot  that  it  was  sufficientlie  repairit  upoun  the  nycht. 
Quhairof  the  Inglismen  begynning  to  weary,  determinit  to 
gyve  the  brusche  and  assault ;  as  that  thay  did  upoun  the 
sevint  day  of  Maij,  beginning  befoir  the  day-licht,  and  con- 
AssAULT  OF  tineuing  till  it  was  neir  sevin  houris.  And  albeit  that  the 
7  OF  AiAij  Ingliss  and  Scottis,  with  greit  slaucliter  of  the  suldiouris  of 
baith,  were  repulsit,  yitt  was  thair  never  ane  scharpar  assault 
gevin  of  so  few  handis  ;  for  thay  exceidit  not  ane  thousand 
men  that  assaultit  the  haill  twa  quarteris  of  the  toun,  and 
yitt  thay  dampnit  the  haill  blok-housses ;  yea,  thay  anis  pat 
the  Frenche  clone  of  thair  wallis,  and  were  upoun  baith  the 
west  and  eist  blokhousses.  Bot  thay  wantit  baking  ;  for  thair 
ledderis  wantit  sax  quarteris  of  the  just  hicht ;  and  sua  quhill 
the  former  wer  compellit  to  fecht  upoun  the  tope  of  [the] 
wall,  thair  fellowis  could  nott  win  to  support  thame,  and  sa 
war  thay  be  multitude  dung  back  agane,  quhen  it  was  anis 
thocht  the  Toune  was  win. 

Sir  James  Croftis^  was  blamit  of  mony  for  not  doing  his 
dewitie  that  day  ;  for  he  was  appoyntit,  with  ane  sufficient 
nomber  of  the  maist  abill  men,  to  haif  assaultit  the  north- 
west quarter  upoun  the  sey-syde,  quhair,  at  ane  low-water 
(as  at  the  tyme  of  the  assault)  [the  passage]  was  easy:^ 
bot  neather  he  nor  his  approchit  to  thair  quarter  appoyntit. 
He   had   befoir,  at  thair   first    cuming   in,   spokin    with   the 

'  In  MS.  G,  "  Bot  be  i-es-soim  the  wall  by  Queen  Elizabeth,  and  made  Govei-nov 

was  eirthe,  the  breiche,"  &c. ;  Vautr.  edit.  of  Berwick;  an  office  which  he  enjoyed 

has,  as  in  the  text,  "  But  by  i-easou  all  at  the  date  of  these  letters."     (State 

was  earth,  the  breache,"  &c.  Papers,  vol.  i.  p.  387.)     But  Crofts,  for 

2  As  mentioned  by  Knox,  supra,  page  his  conduct  at  this  time,  was  impeached 

31,  Sir  James  Crofts  was  captamof  the  by  the  Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  removed 

Town  and  Castle  of  Berwick,  and  war-  from  his  office  as  Govei'nor,  wliich  was 

den  of  East  Marches.     "  He  had,"  says  confei'red  on  Lord  Gray.   He  afterwards 

Sir  Walter  Scott,  "  a  good  military  re-  became  Comptroller  of  the  Houseliold, 

putation ;  having  governed  Ireland,  and  and  died  in  1595. 
defended  Hadtlington  (in  1547)  against  ^  In  MS.  1566,  "  of  the  assault  it  was 

the  French  and  the  Scotch.     He  was  easy." 
attainted  by  Queen  Mary,  but  restored 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  67 

Queue  Regent i  at  the  foir  blok-house  of  tlie  Castell  of 
Edinburgh.  Quhidder  sche  had  enchantit  him  we  knew  nott, 
but  by  suspitioun  of  that  day,  in  the  quhilk  he  desaivit  the 
expectation  of  many,  and,  sa  far  as  man  could  judge,  was  the 
caus  of  that  greit  repulse  ;  for  sum  ascribit  the  schortnes  of 
the  ledderis  to  him :  bot  that  omittit,  quhilk  mycht  have 
proceidit  of  negligence,  his  absens  frome  the  persute  of  his 
quarter,  was  the  cause  that  sick  Frenche  as  war  appointit 
thair  to  defend,  seing  na  persewar,  came  to  the  releif  of  thair 
fellowis,  and  sa  the  twa  joyning  togidder,  with  greit  slauchter 
gaif  the  repulse  to  oure  company.  The  Frenche  menis  har- 
lotis,  of  quhom  the  maist  pairt  war  Scottis  hureis,  did  na  less 
creweltie  than  did  the  souldiaris  ;  for  besydis  that  thay 
chargeit  thair  peceis,  and  ministrit  unto  thame  uther  wea- 
ponis,  sum  continewallie  cast  staneis,  sum  careit  chymnayis 
of  burnyng  fyre,  sum  broclit  tymmcr  and  uther  impedimentis 
of  wecht,  quhilk  with  great  violence  thay  threw  over  the 
wall  upoun  oure  men,  bot  especiallie  quhen  tliay  began  to 
turne  backis.  Now,  albeit  in  all  this  we  acknawlege  the  se- 
creit  wark  of  God,  quha  by  sick  meanis  wald  beat  doun  als- 
weill  the  pryde  of  Ingland  as  of  Scotland,  yitt  neather  audit 
the  febilnes  nor  falsett  of  rnan  to  be  excusit,  neather  yitt  the 
cruelty  of  the  adversareis  be  conceilit.  The  Queue  Regent 
satt  all  the  tyme  of  the  assault  (quhilk  was  baith  terribill  and 
lang)  upon  the  foir-wall  of  the  Castell  of  Edinburgh ;  and 
quhen  sche  perceivit  the  overthniw  of  us,  and  that  the  en- 
senyeis  of  the  Frenche  war  agane  displayit  upoun  the  wallis, 
sche  gaif  ane  gawfe  of  lauchter,  and  said,  "  Now  will  I  go  to 

'  The  interview  of  Crofts  with  the  effect  (viz.  the  cause  of  the  coming  of  the 

Queen  Regent  that  Knox  alludes  to,  army,  &c.) ;  quha  had  long  conference 

took  place  on  the  Cth  April  1560,  during  with  hir  upoun  the  blok  hous  at  the 

the   skirmish  at  llestalrig.     "  In   this  uter  yeit  of  the  saide  Castell,  the  same 

mcautyme  (says  Bishop  Lesley)  the  Lord  day,  dui-ing  the  tyme  of  the  scarmishe," 

Gray,  and  Sir  George  Hawart,  and  Sir  &c.     (Hist.  p.  283.)     Sec  also  the  Ilis- 

Jamcs  Croftis  to  the  Castell  of  Ediu-  torie  of  the  Estate  of  Scotland,  in  the 

Inirgli.  to  speik  with  the  Qucin  to  this  Wodrow  Miscellany^  vol.  i-  p.  82. 


68  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

the  Messe,  and  prayse  God  for  that  qiihilk  my  eyes  liave  sene  I" 
And  sa  was  Freir  Black  i  reddy  for  that  purpose,  quhom  sche 
hir  self  a  little  of  befoir  had  deprehendit  with  his  harlott  in 
the  chapell :  But  huredome  and  idolatrye  ag-gre  weill  togidder, 
and  that  oure  Courte  can  witnesse  this  day,  16  Maij  1566.2 

The  Frenche,  prowd  of  the  victorie,  strypeit  naikit  all  the 
slayne,  and  laid  thair  deid^  carcassis  befoir  the  hot  sune 
alang  thair  wall,  quhair  thay  sufferit  thame  to  lye  ma  dayis  nor 
ane  :  unto  the  quhilk,  quhen  the  Quene  Regent  luikit,  for 
myrth  sche  happit  and  said,  "  Yonder  are  the  fairest  tapestrie 
that  ever  I  saw :  I  wald  that  the  haill  feyldis  that  is  betwix 
this  place  and  yon,  war  strowit  with  the  same  stuiffe."  This 
fact  was  sene  of  all,  and  hir  wordis  war  hard  of  sum,  and 
mislykeit  of  many.  Against  the  quhilk  Johnne  Knox  spak  op- 
pinlie  in  pulpeit,  and  baldlie  affirmeit,  "  That  God  sould  re- 
veang-e  that  contumelye  done  to  his  imag*e,  not  onlie  in  the 
furiouse  and  godless  souldiaris,  hot  evin  in  sick  as  rejoysit  thair- 
at."  And  the  verray  experience  declairit,  that  he  was  nott 
deceavit ;  for  within  few  dayis  thair  efter,  (yea  sum  say  that 
same  day,)  began  hir  bellie  and  lothsome  leggis  to  swell,  and 
sa  continewit,  till  that  God  did  execute  his  judgementis  upoun 
hir,  as  efter  we  sail  heir. 

The  defait  receavit,  it  was  fully  perswadit  to  the  Queen 
Regent  and  hir  factioun,  that  the  Seige  wald  ryse,  and  that 
the  Ingliss  army  wald  dejmirt :  and  sua  began  the  Papistis 
wondrouslie  to  brag ;  and  yitt  God  did  frustratt  thair  expec- 
tation;  for  the  army  concludit*  to  remane  till  new  adverteis- 
ment  came  fra  the  Quene  in  Counsall. 

The  Duck  of  Northfolk,  qulia  than  lay  at  Berwick,  com- 
mandit  the  Lord  Gray  to  continew  the  seige,  and  promeisit 
"  That  he  sould  not  laick  men  sa   lang   as   ony  war   to  be 

^  Some  notices  of  this  Frier  Ehick  -will  portion  of  the  volume  was  written  or 

be  given  in  the  Appendix.  transcribed  in  May  1566.     In  MS.  G. 

^  This  date,  like  that  on  the  margin  the  date,  by  mistake,  is  May  1560. 

at  page  65,  is  in  the  same  hand  with  ^  In  MS.  G,  "  dead"  is  omitted, 

the  MS.,  and  serves  to  siiow  that  this  •■  In  MS.  G,  "  determined." 


1.500.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  r.9 

had  betwix  Trent  and  Tweid,  for  sa  far  was  he  lieutennent."  i'"''  '""■ 

'  PORTABLE 

He  farther  promeisit  his  awin  presens,  in  caise  he  sould  th^ouick 
be  reqiiyreit ;  and  for  assurance  thairof,  he  send  his  awin  polk^''^" 
palzeounis,  1  sic  as  seldome  befoir  had  bene  sene  in  Scot- 
land, with  liis  ofRciaris  and  provisioun.  And  with  expe- 
ditioun  war  send  twa  thousand  fresche  men,  quhairby  the 
campe,  greitlie  confortit,  began  to  forgett  the  former  disconfi- 
ture,  and  to  sustene  the  daylie  skyrmissing  as  thay  did  be- 
foir ;  in  the  quhilk  the  Frenche,  efter  the  day  of  the  assault, 
did  ever  resaif  the  hurt  and  the  repulse,  as  the  slauchter  of 
many  that  came  to  the  cockill-raik^  did  witnesse.  The 
greatest  damage  that  ather  Ingliss  or  Scottis  receavit  efter 
that  day,  was  the  slauchter  of  twa  gentilmen,  the  ane  Master 
of  Househald  to  my  Lord  James,  Robert  Colvene  of  Cleysche,^ 
ane  man  stowt,  modest,  and  wise  ;  qulia  was  schot  in  the 
thigh  with  ane  falcone  or  haquebute  of  crock,  and  depairtit 
the  miserie  of  this  lyfe  within  twa  houris  efter.  The  uther 
was  Alexander  Lockart,  brother  to  the  Laird  of  Barr,^  quha 
raschelie  discovering  him  selif  in  the  trynschis,  was  schot  in 
the  heid,  and  immediatlie  thairefter  depairtit  this  lyff. 

Quhill  the  seige  thus  continewit,  ane  suddane  fyre  chanceit 
in  Leitli,  quhilk  devourit  many  housses  and  mekill  victuall ; 
and  sa  began  God  to  fecht  for  us,  as  the  Lord  Erskin  in  plane 

*  In  MS.  G,  "  paviliounes ;"  in  Vautr.  miracle  of  restoring  sight  to  a  blind 

edit.,  "  pallions."  person  at  Loretto. — See  Row's  History, 

2  In  MS.  G,  "  the  Cole-raik  ;"   Vautr.  Wodrow   Society  edition,  pp.  449-4-55. 

edit,  follows  the  text.  He  was  Master  of  the  Household  to  Loi'd 

5  Robert  Colville  of  Cleish,  has  al-  James  Stewart,  Prior  of  St.  Andrews, 
ready  been  mentioned,  in  a  Note  to  vol.  i.  *  This  was  probably  Alexander  Lock- 
p.  348.  The  property  of  Cleish,  in  the  hart,  styled  Burgess  of  Ayr,  who  was 
parish  of  that  name,  Kinross-shire,  had  convicted  for  an  unlawful  convocation 
belonged  to  William  Meldrum  of  Cleish  of  the  lieges  within  the  borough  of  Ayr, 
and  Binns,  whom  Sir  David  Lyndesay  19th  January  1539-40.  He  had  a  char- 
has  celebrated  in  his  well-known  poem,  ter  of  the  lands  of  Quhitstanes,  in  that 
"  The  History  of  Squyer  Meldrum."  County,  in  1547.  His  brother,  John 
There  is  every  reason  to  believe  that  Lockhart  of  Bar,  is  elsewhere  mention- 
this  Robert  Colville  was  the  person  who  ed  by  Knox, 
detected  the  imposture  of  the  pretended 


70  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

Avordis  said  to  the  Quene  Regent :  "Madam,  (quod  he,)  I  can  se 
na  mair,  bnt  seing  that  men  may  not  expell  injust  possessouris 
furth  of  this  land,  God  him  self  will  do  it ;  for  yon  fyre  is 
nocht  kindellit  be  man."  Quhilk  M'ords  offendit  the  Quene 
Regent  not  a  littill ;  quhais  seiknes  daylie  increassing,  greit 
craft  sche  usit  that  Monsieur  D'Osell  mycht  have  bene  per- 
mitit  to  have  spokin  with  hir ;  belyke  sche  Avald  have  biddin 
him  fairweill  (for  auld  familiaritie  was  greit)  ;  bot  that  denyit, 
sche  wrait  as  it  [had]  bene  to  hir  cliyrurgian  and  apothecar, 
schawing  hir  seiknes,  and  requyreing  sum  droggis.  The  letter 
being  presentit  to  the  Lord  Gray,  he  espyit  the  craft ;  for  few 
lyneis  being  Avrittin  above  and  sa  mekill  quhyte  paper  left,  lie 
said,  "  Drogis  ar  aboundand  and  freschear  in  Edinburgh  than 
thay  can  be  in  Leith :  thair  lurkis  heir  sum  uther  misterie." 
And  sa  he  began  to  try  ;  and  be  balding  the  paper  to  the  fyre, 
he  persavit  sum  writting  [to]  appeir,  and  sa  began  he  to  reid. 
Bot  quhat  it  Avas,  na  uther  man  can  tell ;  for  immediatelie  he 
brunt  the  bill,  and  said  to  the  messinger,  "  Albeit  I  have  bene 
hir  Secretary,  yitt  tell  hir  I  sail  keip  hir  counsall.  But  say  to 
hir,  Sik  wairis  will  nocht  sell  till  a  neAV  marcatt." 

The  answer  receavit,  sche  Avas  nathing  content :  and  than 
travellit  sche  eamistlie  that  sche  mycht  speik  Avith  the  Erlles 
Aigyle,  Glencaime,  Merschell,  and  Avith  the  Lord  James. 
Efter  deliberatioun  it  was  thocht  expedient  that  they  sould 
speik  hir,  bot  nocht  altogidder,  leist  that  sum  pairt  of  the 
Guysianis  practise  had  lurkit  under  the  cullour  of  [sik]  freind- 
scheip.  Hir  regrait  was  unto  thame  all,  "  That  sche  haid  be- 
havit  hir  self  sa  fulischlie,  that  sche  had  compellit  thame  to  seik 
the  support  of  otheris  than  of  thair  aAvin  Soverane ;  and  said, 
that  sche  soir  repentit  that  ever  it  came  to  that  extremitie. 
Bot  sche  AA^as  nocht  the  AA^'^te,  bot  the  Avickit  counsell  of  hir 
freyndis  on  the  ane  pairt,  and  the  Erie  of  Huntley  upoun  the 
uther ;  for  gif  he  had  nocht  bene,  sche  wald  haA'e  fully  ag- 
greit  with  thame  at  thair  communyng   at  Prestoun."     Thay 


15G0.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  71 

gave  unto  liir  baith  the  counsale  and  the  confort  quliilk  thai 
could  in  that  extremitie,  and  willit  lier  to  send  for  sum  godlie 
learnit  man,  of  quhom  sche  mycht  resaif  insti-uctioun ;  for  these 
ignorant  Papistis  that  war  about  hir,  understude  nathing  of 
the  mysterie  of  oure  Redemptioun.  Upoun  thair  moty^^e  was 
Johnne  Willock  send  for,  with  quhom  sche  talkit  ane  reasson- 
abill  space,  and  quha  did  planelie  schaw  unto  hir,  alsweill  the 
vertew  and  strenth  of  the  death  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  the  vanitic 
and  abominatioun  of  that  idole  the  Mess.  Sche  did  oppinlic 
confesse  "  That  tliair  was  na  salvatioun,  hot  in  and  by  the  deatli 
of  Jesus  Christ."  Bot  of  the  Mess  we  hard  not  hir  confessioun. 
Sum  said  sche  was  annoyntit  of  the  Papisticall  maner,  quliilk 
was  ane  sygne  of  small  knawledge  of  the  treuth,  and  of  less 
repentance  of  hir  former  superstitioun.  Yitt  quhowsoever  it 
was,  Christ  Jesus  got  na  small  victorie  over  sick  an  ennemy. 
For  albeit  before  sche  had  avowit,  that  in  dyspite  of  all  Scot- 
land, the  preachearis  of  Jesus  Christ  sould  ather  die  or  be 
banischeid  the  realme ;  yitt  was  sche  compellit  not  onlie  to 
heir  that  Chiyst  Jesus  was  precheit,  and  all  idolatrie  oppinlie 
rebuikit,  and  in  many  placeis  suiijiressit,  bot  alssua  sche  was 
constraineit  to  heir  ane  of  the  principall  ministeris  within  the 
realme,  and  to  approve  the  clieif  held  of  oure  religioun, 
quhairin  we  dissent  frome  all  Papistis  and  Papistrie.  Schort 
thairefter  sche  fynischeit  hir  unhappy  lyfe  ;  unhappy,  we  say,  l^^^^  ^'^•^■^" 
to  Scotland,  fra  the  fyrst  day  sche  enterit  into  it,  unto  the  day  ofxt^'  ""^ 
sche  depairtit  this  lyfe,  quhilk  was  the  nynt  of  June,i  the  zeir 
of  God  J""  V  threscoir  zeiris.  "  God,  for  his  greit  mercyis  saik, 
red  us  frome  the  rest  of  the  Guysiane  blude.  Amen,  Amen." 
For  of  the  tyi-ranie  of  the  Guysiane  blud  in  hir,2  that  for  our 

*  Instead  of  the  9th  of  June,  the  Queen  to  notice  the  delay  of  her  funerals. — See 

Regent  died  on  the  10th  of  that  month.  note  on  the  passage  referred  to. 

Her  body,  by  her  own  desire,  was  trans-  -  Mary  of  Lorraine  was  the  daughter 

ported  to  France,   after   an  interval  of  of  Claude,  Duke  of  Guyse. — See  vol.  i. 

several  months;  and  towards  the  close  p.  61,  note  0. 
of  this  Tliii-d  Book,  Knox  takes  occasion 


72  THE  HISTORY  OF  B<x.k  III. 

untliankfulness  now  reignis  above  us,  we  have  had  suificient 
experience.  Bot  of  any  vertew  that  ever  was  espyit  in  Kyng 
James  the  Fyft  (quhais  dochter  sche  is  callit)  to  this  houre  we 
have  never  sene  any  sparkle  to  appeir. 

Upone  the  saxtene  day  of  June,  efter  the  death  of  the  Quene 
Regent,  came  in  Scotland ^  Monsieur  Randan,^  and  with  him 
the  Bischop  of  Valance,^  in  commissioun  fra  France,  to  en- 
treat of  peace,  Fra  Ingland  thair  came  Sir  Williame  Cicill,  * 
chief  Secretary,  and  Doctor  "Wottoun.^  Thair  negotiation  was 
langsum  ;  for  baith  Ingland  and  we  feiring  deceat,  socht  be  all 
meanis  that  the  contract  sould  be  sure.  And  thay  upoun  the 
uther  pairt,  meanyng  to  gratifie  sick  as  had  send  thame,  (quha 
menit  nathing  bot  mere  falsett,)  protractit  tyme  to  the  utter- 
most ;  yea,  quhill  thame  of  Leith  war  verray  skairce  of  vic- 
tualls,  and  thay  of  the  Insche  had  perescheit,  had  not  bene 
that  by  policy  thay  gatt  ane  schip  with  victuallis,  and  some 
munitioun,  quhilk  was  upoun  Mydsomer  evin,  quhairof  thay 
maid  no  small  tiyumphe  ;  quhilk  alsua  for  ane  seassone  stayit 

'  The  Articles  agi-eed  upon,  at  Ber-  ^  Monsieur  John  de  Monluc,  Bishop 

wick,  14th  June  1560,  are  printed  by  of  Valence.     On  the  13th  May  1560, 

Keith.  Henry  Killegre-w,  at  Cecil's  desire,  in- 

^  Charles  de  la  Rochefaucault,  Seig-  formed  Throkmorton,  "  Yt  was  lang  ere 
neur  de  Randan.  In  the  Latin  treaty,  the  Bishope  of  Valence  cold  have  save 
he  is  designed  "  Dominus  de  Randan,  condyt  of  the  Lords  of  Scotland,  to  re- 
Miles  et  Eques  Auratus."  In  his  pas-  paire  into  the  Quyne  Doujar,  by  cause 
sage  through  England,  he  had  an  inter-  they  did  mistrust  the  sufficiencye  of  his 
view  with  Queen  Elizabeth,  in  May  1 560.  authoritie;  bot  yet  at  length  yt  was 
Throkmorton,  in  liis  letters  4th  May,  granted.  So  as  he  went  and  spak  with 
calls  him  "  Monsieur  de  Randan,  brother  the  Quyne  ui  the  Castell  of  Edenburgh," 
to  the  Comte  Rochefaucault,  and  to  the  &c. — (Forbes's  State  Papers,  vol.  i.  p. 
Abbot  of  Cormery,"  and  says,  "  he  is  a  456.) 

faire  spokesman,  and  a  good  courtesan,  *  See  tv2?ra,  p.  1 7,  note  2. 
very  well  esteemed  in  this  court,  and  of  *  In  the  copies  of  Knox,  "  Wittoun." 
the  faction  of  Guise."  His  jom-ney  was  Dr.  Nicholas  Wotton,  was  Dean  of  Can- 
delayed  for  some  days ;  and  Cecil,  on  terbury  and  York.  "  He  was  much  cm- 
the  22d  May,  informs  Throkmorton, —  ployed  (says  Sir  Walter  Scott)  in  foreign 
"  Monsieur  de  Randan  hath  taken  good  negotiations,  during  theReigns  of  Henry 
leasure,  and  cam  yesterdaye  hyther  to  VIII.  and  his  successor,  and  died  in 
the  Court,  with  the  Embassador,  and  the  1566,  after  having  served  in  nine  em- 
Bishop  of  ^'allence." — (Forbes's  State  basics  to  the  several  States  of  Evu'ope." 
Papers,  vol.  i.  pp.  432,  433,  449.  460.)  —(Note  in  Sadler,  vol.  i.  p.  395.) 


15G0.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  73 

tlie  Appoyntment.     Yitt  in  the  end  peace   was  concludit,  in 
forme  as  follows  : — 

The  Articles  transactit  and  aggreit  be  the  Reverend 
Father  in  God,  Johne  Bischop  of  Valance,  and  Mon- 
sieur Randan,  deputtis  to  the  King  and  Quene  of 
Scotland,  upoun  the  matteris  presentit  to  thame,  be 
way  of  Petitioun,  for  the  pairt  of  the  Nobilitie  and 
Pepill  of  Scotland."^ 

In  the  first,  Upoun  the  complaynt  and  petitioun  of  the  said 
Nohilitie  and  pepill  of  this  cuntrey,  anent  the  number  of  men 
of  weir  sustenit  be  thair  Majesties  in  thir  pairtis  in  tyme  of 
peace ;  It  is  humblie  requeistit  to  the  saidis  Deputis,  that  thay 
wald  provide  oportune  remedy  thairupoun,  to  the  solace  and 
releif  of  the  cuntrey.  The  saidis  Deputis  considerand  the 
said  desyre  to  be  just,  and  conforme  to  reasone,  concludit, 
concordit,  and  affirmit,  That  the  Kyng  and  Quene  sail  procure 
na  Frenche  men  of  weir,  nor  na  uther  natiouii  to  cum  to  thir 
pairtis  in  tyme  cuming ;  hot  gif  strangearis  wald  pretend  to 
enter  in  this  realme  with  ane  navy  or  army  to  occupy  the 
same ;  in  the  quhilk  caise  provisioun  sail  be  maid  be  thair 
Majesties,  the  judgement  and  counsale  of  the  Estaitis  of  the 
realm  be  haid  thairto  :  And  that  the  Frenche  men  of  weir,  be- 
ing now  in  the  toun  of  Leith,  sail  be  send  to  France  the  same 

1  The  following  Articles  form   only  missioners  for  a  Treaty  of  Amity  and 

part  of  the  last  Convention  or  Treaty  of  Peace  with  England,   dated  12th  May 

Peace,  which  was  signed  at  Edinburgh,  1560.     (2.)    The    Convention   (also    in 

on  the  6th  July  1560.     It  is  printed  at  French)  for  the  demolition  of  the  For- 

fuU  length   in  Rymer's  Foedera.     See  tifications    at    Leith,    5th    July   1560. 

also  Keith's  History,  vol.  i.  pp.  298-306.  (3.)  The  Treaty  or  Convention  (in  Latin) 

It  has  not,  therefore,  been  thought  neces-  alluded  to,  as  signed  at  Edinburgh,  on 

sai-y  to  supply  the  variations  or  omis-  the  6th  July.     The  last  two  are  signed, 

sions  in  this  document.  J.  Monluc  E.  de  Valence.  W.  Cecil. 

In  Rymer's  collection  there  wiU  like-  Randan.                               N.  Wotton. 

wise  be  found,  (1.)  The  Commission  from  (4.)  Rymer  also  inserts  the  Ratification 

Francis  and  ]\Iary,  King  and  Queen  of  of   this  Treaty,    by  Queen   Elizabeth, 

France  and  Scotland,  appointing  Com-  dated  at  Windsor,  20th  September  1560. 


74  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

tyme  that  the  navy  and  army  of  Inglissmen  and  Scottismen  lias 
scaillit  and  dcpairtit  baith  be  sey  and  land ;  the  quhilk  sail 
be  done  in  the  best  maner  may  be,  as  at  mair  lenth  considera- 
tioun  sail  be  had  thainipone.  As  to  the  bandis  of  Scottismen 
of  war  being  at  the  said  place,  thay  sail  be  brokin,  and  the 
men  of  war  licentiat^  to  depairt.  Mairover,  as  to  the  fortis  of 
Dumbar  and  Insche  Keyth,^  thair  sail  remane  in  thame  ane 
hundreth  and  twenty  Frenche  men  of  weir  3  allanerlie,  quhilkis 
sail  be  pairtit  and  distributit  in  thir  twa  placeis  ;  and  thair 
sail  remane  na  ma  in  Dumbar  hot  threscoir  men  of  war,  sua 
it  be  not  affirmit  be  the  Capitaneis  chosin  to  that  effect  be 
baith  the  pairteis,  that  for  the  helping  of  the  same  ane  greitar 
number  is  not  neidfull  ;  alssua  to  depairt  quhen  the  Estaitis 
of  the  realme  can  fynd  ane  guid  and  sure  remedy,  upoun  the 
expensses  maid  in  the  saidis  placeis,  to  keip  the  same  fra 
perell  of  invasioun,  or  dej)rivatioun  thairof  fra  thame  that 
wald  j)retend  to  occupy  the  samyn,  thay  sail  schaw  the  same 
to  thair  Majesties  alse  haistilie  as  may  be  done :  and  in  the 
menetyme,  the  number  of  the  said  men  of  war  sail  not  be 
augmentit.  And  in  lyk  maner  it  sail  nocht  be  lefiill  to  the 
said  men  of  war  to  do  ony  injureis  to  ony  j)ersonis,  or  yitt  to 
menteyne  or  defend  ony  Scottismen,  of  what  qualitie  so  ever 
thay  be  of,  againis  the  will  and  authoritie  of  the  magistratis 
of  the  realme,  nor  to  resaif  thame  in  the  saidis  placeis  that 
the  minister  of  justice  may  not  putt  handis  in  thame  ;  nor  yitt 
sail  intromett  with  tham  any  maner  of  way,  with  the  quarrellis 
and  discordis  of  the  Lordis,  or  uthir  particular  men  of  this 
realme ;  bot  thay  thame  sclffis  sail  be  obligit,  in  caise  of  ony 
quarrell  to  be  punischitt  efter  the  lawis  and  consuetude^  of 
this  Realm,  and  to  answer  for  thame  selffis  befoir  the  Judgeis 
Ordinaris  of  the  same.     Last  of  all,  that  fra  this  furth^  thay  be 

'  Vautr  edit.  " licensed."  *  In   MS.   1.5G6,   it  is  "constitute;" 

2  Vautr.  edit,  makes  it,  "  Dunbar,  and  in  Yautr.  edit,  "constitutions." 
in  such  that."  ■'  In  Vautr.  edit.,  "  from  henceforth ;' 

•'  In  MS.  G,  "  of  weir"  is  omitted.  in  MS.  G,  "  fra  this  tyme  furtli." 


15C0.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  75  • 

not  compellit  to  taik  ony  credeit,  they  sail  be  every  moneth  sa- 
tisfeit  of  tliair  wageis  ;  sua  that  twa  Scottis  Lordis  chosin  be 
the  Counsale,  may  present  it,  at  weappon-schawing  and  mus- 
touris  of  the  said  men  of  weir ;  and  alsua  to  viseit  the  saidis 
fortis  to  se  gif  the  number  of  thame  be  eikit ;  and  it  sail  not 
be  lesum  to  the  said  men  of  war  to  tak  ony  victuallis  for  thair 
sustentatioun,  to  the  munitioun  of  the  saidis  plaeeis,  bot  be 
payment  of  reddy  money,  numerat,  and  with  the  plesour  of 
thame  that  delyveris  the  same  to  thame  :  And  thairfoir,  the 
saidis  Lordis  oblisses  thame  to  gif  thame  sa  mekill  as  is  neid- 
full  to  thame,  thay  having  to  pay  thairfoir. 

Item,  Upoun  the  petitioun  presentit  to  the  saidis  Lordis 
Deputis,  anent  the  demolitioun  of  the  fortificationis,  the  saidis 
Deputis  consentit,  concordit,  and  affirmit,  That  the  fortificatioun 
of  Leith  sail  be  demolischit,  and  that  twa,  thre,  or  four  capi- 
taneis  sail  be  chosin  be  baith  of  the  pairteis,  to  visite  the 
Castell  of  Dumbar  ;  and  gif  it  beis  fundin  be  thame,  that  the 
reparatioun,  ami^lificatioun,  and  fortifeingl  maid  thairof  now 
efter  the  peace,  greittar  nomber  of  men  to  the  keiping  thairof 
is  requyreit,  the  reparatioun  and  fortificatioun  thairof  sail  be 
demolischeit,  sua  sone  as  may  be  done,  and  sail  remane  onlie 
untuicheit,  that  thing  quhilk  may  mak  the  said  Castell  mair 
sure,  and  leist  dainger  fra  invasioun  ;  pro vy ding  nocht  the  less 
that  na  grettar  nomber  of  men  thairin  be  requyreit  for  keiping 
of  the  same.  Mairover,  in  tymeis  cuming  the  Kyng  and  Queue 
sail  mak  na  ma  new  fortis  within  this  realme,  and  sail  nocht 
augment  thame  that  ar  ellis  maid,  nor  sail  repair  thame  that  are 
demolischeit,  without  counsal  and  consent  of  the  Estaites  ;  nor 
yitt  sail  transport  to  uthir  partis  ony  artailyerie,  munitioun  of 
war,  powder,  or  victuallis,  bot  sa  mekill  as  may  gayne  for  keip- 
ing of  the  saidis  plaeeis  be  the  space  of  sax  monethis  or  ane 
yeir. 

Item,  Anent  the  petitioun  maid  anent  the  debtis  contractit 

'  In  MS.  G,  "fovtificcatioiin." 


7C  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

be  the  Frenche  men  of  weir  in  this  eountrey,  the  saidis  [De- 
putis]  concordit,  That  the  Kyng  and  Quene  sail  cause  restoir 
all  that  quhilk  happinis  to  be  fund  gevin  and  grantit  to  the 
Kyngis  Lieutennent  and  his  Capitaneis,  and  uthiris  Offi- 
ciaris,  for  the  nureisment,  sustentatioun,  and  menteinance 
of  the  said  Frensche  men,  or  that  quhilk  beis  fundin  audit  be 
the  lieutennent  for  service  of  his  Majestic,  that  may  appeir 
be  writt,  or  confessioun  of  parteis. 

Item,  Upoun  the  petitioun  maid  anent  the  Conventioun  of 
Estaitis  of  this  Realme,  the  saidis  Deputis  consentit,  concordit, 
&c.,  That  the  Estaites  of  the  Realme  may  convene  and  hald 
Parliament,  the  twenty  dayl  of  the  moneth  of  Julij  nixt  to 
cum ;  upone  the  quhilk  day  the  Parliament  sail  be  contyneuit, 
as  use  is,  unto  the  fyrst  day  of  the  moneth  of  August  follow- 
ing. Provyding  alwayis,  that  befoir  or  thay  begin  to  treat  ony 
thyng  in  the  said  Parliament,  all  tumult  of  weir  be  dischargeit 
and  ceise,  that  they  that  are  present  may  be  free  without  feir 
of  men  of  weir  or  uthiris ;  and  that  in  the  menetyme  ane  mes- 
singer  be  send  be  the  saidis  Deputis  to  the  Kyng  and  Quene, 
to  certifie  thame  of  thay  thyngis  aggreit,  treatit,  and  con- 
cordit, requeisting  thair  Majesteis  humbillie  to  be  contentit 
with  the  samyn  :  And  the  said  Conventioun  sail  be  alse  lauch- 
full  in  all  respectis,  as  the  samyn  had  bene  ordanit  and  done 
be  expres  commandyment  of  thair  Majesteis ;  providing  that 
na  mater  be  treatit  thairintill  befoir  the  said  fyrst  day  of 
August. 

Item,  Upoun  the  article  presentit  anent  Weir  and  Peace, 
the  saidis  Deputis  consentit,  concordit,  etc.,  That  the  Kyng  and 
Quene  neither  mak  peace  nor  weir  in  thir  pairtis,  bot  be  coun- 
sale,  judgment,  and  consent  of  the  Thre  Estaitis,  according  to 
the  ordinance  and  consuetudis  of  the  eountrey ;  and  as  was 
rvit  be  thair  predecessouris. 
Item,  Upoun  the  petitioun  presentit  to  the  saidis  Deputis, 
'  See  note  infra,  p.age  84. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  77 

aiient  the  governament  and  regiment  of  tlie  Policey,  tliay  have 
consentit,  etc.,  Tliat  twenty-four  worthy  men  of  this  reahiie 
be  cliosin  be  the  Three  Estaitis,  of  the  quhilkis  the  Kyng-  and 
the  Quene  sail  chusc  sevin,  and  the  Estaitis  sevintene ; 
quhilkis  in  thair  Majesteis  absens  sail  tak  ordour,  and  mak 
an  ordinarie  eounsall  for  administratioun  foirsaid,  sua  that  na 
man,  of  quhatsoever  qualitie  he  be,  sail  have  the  power  to 
ordour  ony  thing-  to  be  done  touching  the  saidis  busynes, 
without  the  mediatioun,  authorities,  and  consent  of  thame  : 
sua  that  the  saidis  counsallaris  sail  convene  togidder  alse  oft 
as  thay  may,  but  thay  sail  convene  na  less  nor  sax^  togidder ; 
And  quhen  on}^  mater  of  importance  occurris,  thay  sail  be  all 
callit  to  counsale,  and  tak  ordour  be  thame,  or  the  maist  pairt 
of  thame,  gif  neid  beis.  And  gif  it  happinis  ony  of  the  said 
sevin  chosin  be  the  Kyng  and  Quene  to  deceis,  thair  Majesties 
sail  choise  ane  uthir  furth  of  the  said  nomber  of  xxiv.  in  place 
of  him  that  deceassit ;  and  gif  ony  of  the  saidis  xvii.  cliosin  be 
the  Estaitis  deis,  the  remanent  fbirchosen  be  thame  sail  name 
ane  uther  of  the  said  nomber  of  twentie  foure.  Mairover,  gif 
it  beis  thocht  expedient  be  the  saidis  Estaitis,  that  uther  twa 
be  augmentit  to  the  said  nomber  of  twelf,  than  and  in  that 
caise,  the  Kyng  and  Quene  sail  choise  ane,  and  the  Estaitis 
ane  uther.  And  sua  was  this  Article  ag-greit  under  conditioun, 
that  is  to  say,  That  the  samyn  be  na  prejudice  in  tyme  cuming 
to  the  Kyng  and  Quene,  and  lychtis  of  the  Croune  :  And  the 
saidis  Deputis  offerrit  thair  laubouris  to  mak  mediatioun  to 
the  Kyng  and  Quene,  for  menteining  pensiouns  and  expensses 
of  the  said  Counsellouris,  and  ordinar  officiaris  of  the  said 
eounsall,  to  be  providit  of  the  rentis  and  proventis^  of  the 
Croun. 

Item,  Upoun  the  petitioun  maid  to  the  saidis  Deputis  anent 
the  Officiai-is  of  this  realme,  thay  consentit  and  concordit,  &c., 
That  in  tyme  cuming  the  King  and  Quene  sail  not  depute  ony 

'  111  M!:?.  G,  "  no  les  than  twelf."'      '  In  Vautv.  edit.,  "  rents  and  reucnewes." 


78  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

stranger  in  the  administratioun  of  tlic  civile  and  criminall 
Justice ;  and  in  lykwyise  in  the  office  of  Chancellarie,  Keipar  of 
Seall,  Thesaurer,  CompttroUar,  and  uther  lyk  officeis,  and  sail 
not  use  thame,  but  sail  be  content  with  thair  awin  subjectis 
borne  in  this  realme.  Mairovcr,  it  sail  not  be  lefuU  to  put  the 
office  of  Thesaurarie,  Comptrollarie,  in  the  liandis  of  any  kirk 
man,  or  utheris  quhilkis  ar  not  abill  to  exercise  the  saidis  offi- 
ceis ;  the  quhilkis  Thesaurer  and  CompttroUar  sail  be  providit 
of  sufficient  commissioun  to  use  the  saidis  officeis.  Bot  it  sail 
not  be  lefull  to  thame  to  disj)one  or  sell  wairdis  of  mariageis, 
or  uther  casualiteis,  or  any  uther  thyngis  quhatsumever  thay 
be  perteinyng  to  thair  officeis,  without  counsall  or  consent  of 
the  said  Counsale,  to  that  effect  that  the  Counsale  may  know 
that  all  thyngis  be  done  to  the  proffitt  of  the  Kyng  and 
Queue ;  and  yitt  thay  will  not  bynd,  or  astrict  the  Kyng  and 
Queue  be  this  article,  that  thay  may  not  gif  quhen  thay  think 
exj)edient. 

Item,  Thay  concordit.  That  in  the  first  conventioun  of  the 
Estaitis  of  this  Realme,  thair  sail  be  constitut,  ordanit,  and 
establischeit  ane  law  of  oblivioun,  quhilk  efterward  sail  be 
confirmit  be  the  Kyng  and  Queneis  Majesties ;  be  the  quhilk 
all  rememberance  of  beiring  of  armour,  and  utheris  thyngis 
quhilk  it  hes  bene  done,  sail  be  eirdit  and  forgett,!  fra  the 
saxt  day  of  the  moneth  of  Marche,  in  the  yeir  of  God  J™  V"-' 
fyftie  audit  yeiris :  And  be  the  samyn  law,  thay  quhilkis  hes 
contravenit  the  lawis  of  the  realme,  sail  be  exemit  and  fre  of 
all  payne  contenit  thairin,  siclik  as  gif  it  never  had  bene 
contravenit  ;  providing  that  the  privilegis  of  the  said  law  be 
not  extendit  to  thame,  quhilkis  the  Estaitis  of  the  Realme  sail 
judged  unworthie  thairof 

Item,  It  is  aggreit  and  concludit.  That  in  the  said  Conven- 
tioun or  Parliament,   the  Estaitis  of  the  Realme,  as  use  is, 

'  lu  MS.  G,  "  sail  be  buryed,  earthed,  -  That  is,  the  year  1558-!i. 

and  forget;"  in  Vautr.   edit.,  "  shalbe  *  In  MS.  G,  "sail  tliiuk;"   in  Vautr. 

buried  and  forgotten."  edit..  "  .shall  judge.' 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  79- 

and  of  the  niancr  is  requircit,  .sail  be  callit ;  in  the  quliilk  all 
tliay  that  lies  usit  to  convene,  and  be  pre.sent,  may  cum  Avith- 
out  all  feir  or  force  done,  or  to  be  done  to  tbame  be  any 
persona,  sua  that  the  saidis  sail  oblisse  thame,  that  quhair  in 
tyme  cuming  ony  seditioun,  or  conventioun  of  men  of  war  sail 
happin  to  be,  Avithout  command  of  the  Counsall,  being  of  the 
number  of  twelf,  the  realme  and  cuntrey  sail  repute  the 
causseris  thairof,  and  thame  that  conveneis  as  rebellis,  and 
sail  persew  thame  as  siclyk,  that  thay  may  be  punischeit  be 
the  lawis  of  the  Realme,  sua  that  the  Kyng  and  Quene  sail 
not  be  compellit  in  tyme  cuming  to  send  ony  men  of  war,  or 
strangeris  in  tliir  pairtis,  for  obtenying  of  dew  obedience  of 
thair  subjectis. 

Item,  Thay  offerit,  concordit,  and  aggreit,  That  thair  sail 
be  generall  peace  and  reconciliatioun  amang  all  Lordis  and 
subjectis  of  this  Realme  ;  so  that  thay  that  are  callit  of  the 
Congregatioun,  and  thay  quhilkis  are  not  of  the  samyn,  sail 
put  na  reproche  to  utheris  of  the  thingis  quhilk  are  done  fra 
the  said  saxt  day  of  Marche  1558  [-9.] 

Item,  Thay  oiferrit,  concordit,  and  affirmit,  That  the  King 
and  Quene  sail  not  persew,  revenge,  nor  mak  ony  persecutioun 
of  the  thyngis  that  lies  bene  done,  nor  yitt  sail  thay  suffer 
the  samyn  to  be  done  be  thair  subjectis,  Frenche  men,  bot 
sail  have  all  thyngis  in  oblivioun,  as  the  samyn  had  never 
bene  done.  And  siclyk,  the  Lordis  of  this  Realme  of  Scot- 
land sail  do  of  all  busynes  betwix  thame  and  the  Frenche  men 
in  thir  pairtis.  And  gif,  be  sinister  informatioun,  or  ony  uther 
occasioun,  thair  Majesteis  hes  conceavit  ony  evill  opinioun 
against  thair  subjectis,  thay  sail  alluterlie  forgett,  and  change 
the  samyn ;  nor  thay  sail  not  depryve  any  of  thame,  nor 
denude  any  of  thame,  or  of  thair  subjectis,  of  the  officcis, 
beneficeis,  or  estaitis,  quhilkis  thay  have  bruikit  in  the  said 
Realme  bcfoir,  be  rassone  of  ony  thyngis  thay  have  middillit 
with,  fra  the  said  saxt  day  of  Marche  1558  [-9.]     And  farther, 


■80  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

sail  mak  na  occasioun  of  deprivatioun,  or  deposing  of  tliame  be 
any  uther  ciillour  without  caus  ;  bot  rather  thaj  sail  esteme 
and  treit  thame  in  tyme  cuming  as  gude  and  obedient  sub- 
jectis,  providing  that  the  saidis  Lordis  and  uther  subjectis, 
on  thair  pairtis,  mak  to  tliair  Majesteis  haill  obedience,  sic- 
lyk  as  utheris  faithfull  and  naturall  subjectis  audit  to  thair 
Soveraneis. 

Item,  It  is  concordit  and  aggreit,  That  it  sail  be  lefull  to 
nane  of  the  Lordis  of  the  Nobilitie  of  Scotland,  or  ony  utheris, 
to  mak  convocatioun  of  men  of  weir,  bot  in  the  ordinarie 
Gausses  ajiprovit  be  the  lawis  and  consuetude  of  the  Realme  ; 
and  that  nane  of  thame  sail  cause  ony  men  of  weir,  strangeris, 
to  cum  in  thir  pairtis,  and  mekill  less  sail  attempt  to  do  ony 
thyng  against  the  Kyng  and  Queue,  or  aganeis  the  authoritie 
of  the  Counsall,  and  utheris  Magistratis  of  the  Realme ;  and 
thay  quhilkis  lies  presentit  the  said  petitioun  sail  be  obleist 
thaininto.  And  in  caise  any  of  thame,  or  utheris,  find  occa- 
sioun to  invaid,  or  tak  armour  aganist  any  man,  as  he  pre- 
tendis,  efter  that  he  have  communicatit  the  mater  with  the 
counsall  of  the  Realme,  he  sail  present  his  complaynt  to  thair 
Majesteis:  and  generallie,  thay  sail  obliss  thame,  under  the 
saidis  paines,  to  do  the  thyngis  quhilkis  pertenis  to  guid  and 
faithfull  subjectis,  for  the  quyetnes  and  tranquillitie  of  the 
Realme,  and  rychtis  of  thair  Soveraneis. 

Item,  It  is  aggreit,  &c.,  That  gif  ony  Bischopis,  Abbotis,  or 
uther  kyrk  men  sail  playnt,  or  allege  thame  to  have  resavit 
any  injureis,  eyther  in  thair  personeis  or  guidis,  the  playnt 
sail  be  sene  and  considderit  be  the  Estaitis  in  the  said  Con- 
ventioun  and  Parliament  ;  and  thair  sail  be  maid  redress,  as 
thay  sail  find  according  to  reassone :  And  in  the  meinetyme, 
na  man  sail  stopp  thame,  bot  thay  sail  bruik  thair  guddis ; 
nor  sail  do  any  skaith,  injuric,  or  violence  to  thame :  and  gif 
ony  dois  contravene  to  this  article,  he  sail  be  persewit  be  the 
Lordis  as  ane  perturbar  of  anc  guid  communwelth. 


1500.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  81 

Item,  It  is  concordit,  &c.,  That  the  saidis  Lordis  sail  obliss 
thame  to  observe,  and  cause  be  observit,  all  and  sindrie  pointis 
and  articleis  aggreit  in  this  Treateis :  and  gif  it  hajipinis  that 
any  of  thame,  or  ony  utlier,  wald  contravene  the  same,  the 
remanent  Lordis  and  residcAv  of  the  haill  pepill,  sail  be  en- 
nemeis  to  him,  and  sail  persew  him  till  he  be  chaistisit  and 
puneisit  according  to  his  demereitis. 

Item,  It  is  concordit,  &c.,  That  all  the  haill  Realme  may- 
know  that  the  Kyng  and  Quene  ar  not  willing  to  keip  any 
rememberance  of  the  trubillis  and  diiferencis  bygane  ;  and 
sa  far  as  concernis  the  Nobilitie  and  utheris  subjectis  of  the 
Realme,  that  thair  Majesteis  desyris  to  treit  thame  humanelie, 
and  to  be  favourabill  to  thame ;  the  saidis  Deputis  hes  pro- 
meist  and  concordit  that  the  Duck  of  Chastellarault,  and  all 
uthiris  Nobillmen  of  Scotland,  sail  be  remittit,  and  put  again 
in  all  thair  guddis  and  beneficeis,  quhilkis  thay  haid  and 
joysit  in  France,  that  thay  may  bruik  and  joyse  the  same  in 
the  samyn  manor  as  thay  did  of  befoir  thay  differenceis,  the 
said  saxt  day  of  Marche,  and  yeir  foirsaid,  evin  as  the  saidis 
contraverseis  had  never  chanceit.  And  alssua,  that  all  capi- 
tulatiouns  and  articleis  aggreit  upoun  in  tymeis  bigane,  and 
speciallie  thay  that  war  appointit  in  the  K^mg  and  Queneis 
contract,  sail  be  observit  and  keipit,  alsweill  for  the  pairt  oi 
thair  Majesteis  as  for  the  pairt  of  the  Nobilitie  and  pepill  of 
Scotland.  And  as  concerning  David,  sone  to  the  said  Duck  of 
Chastellarault,!  now  being  in  Boys  de  Vincent,  libertie  sail  be 
grantit  to  him  to  returne  to  Scotland,  and  to  do  as  he  pleise. 

Mairover,  quhen  the  saidis  Deputis  exponit,  that  sum  tyme 
it  mycht  chance  that  the  Kyng  mycht  mister  of  his  greit  gunis 
and  artailyerie  in  France,  the  saidis  Lordis  having  consideratioun 
thairof,  concordit,  That  na  uther  artailyerie  be  translatit  out  of 
this  Realme,  bot  thay  quhilkis  war  send  and  brocht  in  fra  the 

1  Lord  David  Hamilton,  the  third  son  vol.  i.  p.  383.  He  retiirnetl  to  Scotlaml 
(if  the  Duke  of  Chatelheranlt  :  see  note,       in  Octohor  l-'SnO. 


82  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

day  and  deceise  of  Francis,  King  of  France,^  of  guid  memorie 
to  thir  pairtis ;  and  tliat  all  utlier  artailyerie  and  munitioun  be 
reponit  in  placeis  quliair  thay  Avar  takin  furth,  and  speciallie 
[those]  that  hes  the  armeis^  of  Scotland  sail  be  put  in  the 
placeis  quhair  thay  war  takin  furth  of ;  and  their  sail  be  Nobill 
men  of  Scotland  [appointed]  thairfoir,  and  twa  for  the  pairt 
of  the  Kingis  Majestie  is  to  be  deput,  to  recognosce  the  saniyn 
befoir  the  schipping  thairof 

And,  mairover,  that  quhair  for  the  pairt  of  the  Nobilitie  and 
pepill  of  Scotland,  certane  Articles  concerning  the  Religioun^ 
and  uthiris  j^ointis  war  presentit,  quhilkis  the  saidis  Deputis 
wald  not  tuyche,  hot  considering  the  wecht  and  importance 
of  thame,  remittit  the  samyn  to  be  recognoscit  and  decidit  be 
thair  Majesties ;  the  saidis  Lordis  and  Nobilitie  promeisit,  that 
ane  certane  number  of  Nobill  men  sail  be  chosin  in  the  nixt 
Convention  and  Parliament,  to  be  sent  to  their  Majesties, 
quhilkis  sail  expone  to  thair  Hienes  the  thingis  quhilkis  sail 
be  thocht  neidfuU  for  the  estait  of  thair  busyness,  and  for  the 
foirmentionat  and  utheris  articles  and  pointis  undecidit  with 
the  saidis  Deputis,  to  the  effect  that  thay  may  knaw  thair  Ma- 
jesties intention  and  benevolence  upon  the  thingis  quhilkis 
sail  be  exponit  for  the  pairt  of  the  country;  the  quhilkis  alsua 
sail  have  with  thame  ane  confirmatioun  and  ratificatioun  be 

^  Francis  the  First,  died  31st  March  monies  couforme  to  the  Order  estab- 

1547.  lishit  laitly  befoir  in  thair  Parliament 

*  In  MS.  G,  "  and  in  speciall  that  of  Ingland,  so  that  boith  the  Realmes 

have  the  armes."  micht  haif  ben  uniforme  in  religione  and 

^  In  mentioning  "  the  soum  and  effect"  ceremonies ;  bot  the  Ministers  and  Con- 

of  this  Treaty,  in  which,  "  as  to  the  gregatione  of  Scotland,  thinking  thair 

state  of  religione,  the  same  was  deferrit  awin  profession  eftir  the  order  and  dis- 

to  ane  new  Treatie,"  Bishop  Lesley  sub-  cipUne  of  Geneva,  to  be  moir  puir,  as 

joins  the  following  explanation :  "  Heir  conteyning  no  uther  ceremonies  nor  is 

is  necessar  to  be  rememberit,  the  cans  expressely  mentioned  in  the  Scriptour, 

quhy  in  this  Treatye  thair  was  nothing  thairfore  wald  not  ressave  or  admitt 

aggreit  tueching  Religione ;  becaus  the  any  uther ;  and  the  Commissioners  for 

Commissioners   of  Ingland   wald    haif  France  walde  not  appreve  nane  of  the 

wished  the  Congregatione  of  Scotland  twa ;  and  thairfoir  that  mater  was  de- 

to  haif  ressavit  the  discipline  and  cere-  layit." — (History,  p.  292.) 


15G().  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  83 

tlie  Estaitis  of  the  liealnie  of  the  Articleis  quhilkis  ar 
concordit  and  aggreit  be  the  saidis  Deputis,  to  quham  al- 
sua  the  same  tyme,  or  of  befoir,  sail  be  gevin  and  delyverit 
ane  lyk  confirmatioun  and  ratificatioun  maid  be  thair  Ma- 
jesties, sua  being  that  the  saidis  Estaitis  send  thair  ratifica- 
tioun foirsaid. 

[In  Avitness  Avhereof,  &c.] 

The  Proclamatioun  of  the  thyngis  above  writtin, 
maid  the  aucht  day  of  julij,  the  yeir  of  god  j"  v 
thbescoir  yeiris. 

To  THE  LOVING  OF  THE  MAIST  PUISSANT  LoRD,    AND  CONFORT  OF 

ALL  Christianis  :  The  maist  puissant  Prince  and  Princess,  and 
maist  Christiane  Kyng  and  Quene  Francis  and  Marie,  be  the 
grace  of  God  Kyng  and  Quene  of  France  and  Scotland,  and  the 
maist  puissant  Princess  Elizabeth,  be  the  samyn  grace  Quene 
of  Ingland,  Ireland,  &c.:  It  is  concordit,  and  reconciliatioun 
of  peace  and  amitie  maid,  quhilk  is  to  be  observit  inviolablie 
amangis  thame,  thair  subjects,  realmes,  and  countreys:  Forsa- 
mekle  in  name  of  the  said  Prince  and  Princesses,  it  is  com- 
mandit  and  straitlie  chargeit,  to  all  maner  of  personis  under 
thair  obedience,  or  being  in  thair  service,  fra  this  furth,^ 
to  desist  fra  all  hostilitie,  baitli  by  sey  and  land,  and  to  keip 
ane  good  peace  the  ane  with  the  uther;  and  with  charge  to 
the  brekaris  under  their  greit  parrell,  &c. 

Thir  thingis  transactit,  and  the  peace  proclamit,  as  said  is, 
suddane  provisioun  was  maid  for  the  transporting  of  the 
Frensche  to  France,  of  whom  the  maist  pairt  were  put  into 
the  Ingliss  schippis,  quha  alsua  careit  with  thame  the  liaill 
spulzie  of  Leith  ;  and  that  was  the  secund  benefite  quhilk  thay  the  prof- 
resavit  of  thair  lait  promeisit  libertie,  the  end  quhairof  is  not  J;"'^"  "'*'' 


3F  ri!/ 


1  In  MS.  G,  "  from  this  tyme  furth;"       the  Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  "fra  this  day 
in  Vantr.  odit.,  "  from  Jiencefortli."    In       furth,  to  delist  and  ceis  fi'a  all." 


84  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

yitt  cum.  Tlie  Ingliss  army  be  land  depairtit  the  sextene  day 
of  Julij,  the  yeir  of  God  J™  V  threscoir  yeiris.  The  maist 
pairt  of  oure  Nobilitie,  Protestantis,  honorabillie  convoyit 
thame  (as  in  ven'ay  deid  thay  had  weill  deservit)  :  Bot  the 
Lord  James  wald  nocht  leave  the  Lord  Gray,  Avith  the  uther 
nobill  men  of  Ingland,  till  that  thay  enterit  in  Berwick.  Efter 
quhaise  returnyng,  the  Counsall  began  to  luik,  alsweill  upoun 
the  effairis  of  the  commonwelth,  as  upoun  the  matteris  that 
mycht  concerne  the  stabilitie  of  Religioun. 

As  befoir  we  have  heard,  the  Parliament  [was]  concludit  to 
begyn  the  xx.  [10th]  of  July,  and  to  be  contynewit  to  the  first  of 
August  nixt ;  l  and  thairfoir  the  Lordis  maid  the  greater  expe- 
ditioun,  that  all  thyngis  mycht  be  put  in  convenient  ordour. 
Bot  befoir  all  thyngis  the  Preachouris  exhortit  thame,  (for  than 
in  Edinburgh  war  the  maist  pairt  of  the  cheif  Ministeris  of  the 
Realme)  to  be  thankfull  unto  God,  and  nixt  to  provyde,  that 
the  ministeris  mycht  be  distributeit  as  the  necessitie  of  the 
countrey  requyreit.  Ane  day  was  statute,  quhen  the  haill 
Nobilitie,  and  the  greitest  pairt  of  the  Congregatioun  assem- 
billit  in  Sanct  Geilis  Kirk  in  Edinburgh,  quhair,  efter  the 
sermond  maid  for  that  purpoise,  publick  thankis  war  gevin 
unto  God  for  his  mercifull  deliverance,  in  forme  as  followis : — 

Thankis  geving  for  our  delyverance,  with  Prayeris. 
0   Eternall    and   Everlasting   God,     Father   of    oure   Lord 
Jesus  Chryst,  quha  hes  nocht  onlie  commandit  us  to  pray,  and 
promeisit  to  heir  us,  but  alsua  willis  us  to  magnifie  thy  mer- 

^  The  Treaty  of  Peace  thus  concluded  sion ;  but  both  here,  and  at  page  76, 

and  signed,  peace  was  proclaimed,   as  Knox  specifies  the  20th  of  that  month, 

above,  on  the  8th  of  July ;  and  Parlia-  The  solemn  public  thanksgiving  held  in 

ment   was  assembled   on   the  10th   of  St.  Giles's  Church,  on  the  Kitli  July, 

that  month,  to  adjourn,  as  had  been  was   undoubtedly  conducted  by  Knox 

determined,  until  the  first  of  August.  himself,  although  he  withholds  his  own 

The  lOtli  of  July  occurs  also  in  the  Acts  name,  in  the  above  narrative, 
printed  immediately  after  the  Confes- 


1,560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  «6 

cies,  and  to  glorifie  thy  name  qulien  tliou  schawls  thy  self  pltle- 
full  and  favorablll  unto  us,  especlalllc  quhen  thow  delyveris 
us  frome  disperatt  daingearis :  ffor  sa  did  thy  servantls  Abra- 
ham, David,  Jehosapliatt,  and  Ezekias ;  yea,  the  halll  peplll 
of  Israeli  omlttit  nott  the  same,  quhen  thow  by  thy  mychtle 
hand  did  confound  tliair  ennemels,  and  deliver  thame  frome 
felr  and  daingear  of  death  intentlt.  We  aucht  not,  nor  can  not 
forgett,  0  Lord,  in  how  mlserabill  estalt  stude  this  poore 
countrey,  and  we  the  just  inhabitants  of  the  same,  not  many 
dayls  past,  quhen  idolatrie  was  menteynlt,  quhen  creuell 
straingearis  did  Impyre,  quhen  virgennls  war  deflorit,  matronis 
corruptlt,  mennis  wyfels  vlolentlle  and  vylanouslie  oppressit,  the 
blud  of  Innocentls  sched  without  mercie  ;  and  finallle,  quhen 
the  unjust  commandementis  of  proud  tyrannis  war  obeyit  as 
anc  law.  Out  of  thir  miseries,  0  Lord,  could  nather  our  witt, 
policey,  nor  strength  delyver  us  ;  yea  did  schaw  unto  us  how 
vayne  was  the  help  of  man,  quliair  thy  blessing  gevis  not 
victorie.  In  thir  our  anguischeis,  0  Lord,  we  suitit  l  unto 
thee,  we  cryit  for  thy  help,  and  we  reclameit^  thy  name,  as 
thy  trubillit  flock,  persecutit  for  thy  treutli  salk.  Mercifullle 
lies  thow  hard  us,  0  Lord,  mercifullle,  we  say,  becaus  that 
neither  in  us,  neither  yitt  in  our  confederatis  was  thair  any 
cans  quhy  thou  souldest  have  gevin  unto  us  sa  joy  full  and 
suddane  a  delyverance  :  for  neither  of  us  baytli  ceassit  to  do 
wickitlie,  evin  in  the  myddis  of  oure  greitest  trubillis.  And 
yitt  hes  thow  lukit  upoun  us  sa  pitifullie  as  that  we  haid  gevin 
unto  thee  maist  perfyte  obedience,  for  thou  hes  disapoyntit  the 
counsals  of  the  crafty,  thow  hes  brydillit  the  rage  of  the 
crewell ;  and  thow  hes  of  thy  mercie  sett  this  oure  perisching 
Realme  at  ane  reasonabill  libertie.  Oh,  gif  us  hartis  (thou, 
Lord,  that  onlie  gifis  all  guid  gyft,)  with  reverence  and  feir,  to 
meditat  thy  wondrouse  warkis  lait  wrocht  in  oure  eyes.     Let 

'  111  MS.   G,   ami  \auti-.  edit.,  '•  we  2  j^  j^^g^  q,  "  pi-oclanied ;"  in  Vautr. 

sobbed."  edit.,  "  reclamed." 


86  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

not  tlie  remembrance  of  tlie  same  unthankfullie  to  slip  frome 
oure  wavering-  myndis.  We  grant  and  acknawlege,  0  Lord,  tliat 
quliat  soever  we  haif  resavit  sail  fall  in  oblivioun  with  us,  and 
so  turne  to  oure  condempnatioun,  unless  tbou,  by  the  power  of 
thy  Holie  Spreit,  keip  and  reteyne  us  in  recent  and  perpetuall 
memorie  of  the  same.  We  beseik  thee  thairfoir,  0  Father  of 
mercyis,  that  as  of  thy  undeservit  grace  thow  hes  partlie  re- 
movit  our  darknes,  suppressit  idolatrie,  and  taikin  frome  above 
oure  heidis  the  devouring  sword  of  mercyless  strangearis,  that 
sa  it  wald  pleise  thee  to  proceid  with  us  in  this  thy  grace  be- 
g-une.  And  albeit  that  in  us  thair  is  nathing  that  may  move 
thy  Majestie  to  schaw  us  thy  favour,  0  yit  for  Christ  Jesus, 
thy  onlie  weilbelovit  Sonis  saik,  quhais  name  we  beir,  and 
quhais  doctrin  we  profess,  we  beseik  thee  never  to  suffer  us  to 
foirsaik  or  deny  this  thy  veritie  quhilk  now  we  professe.  Bot 
seing  that  thou  hes  mercifullie  heard  us,  and  hes  caussit  thy 
veritie  to  triumphe  in  us,  sa  we  crave  of  thee  continewance 
unto  the  end,  that  thy  godlie  name  may  be  glorifeit  in  us  thy 
creaturis.  And  seing  that  nathing  is  mair  odiouse  in  thy 
presence,  0  Lord,  than  is  ungratitud  and  violatioun  of  ane 
aith  and  convenant  maid  in  thy  name ;  and  seing  that  thou 
hes  maid  our  confederatis  of  Ingland  the  instrumentis  by 
quhom  we  are  now^  sett  at  this  libertie,  to  quhom  we  in  thy 
name  have  promeisit  mutuall  fayth  agane;  lett  us  never  fall  to 
that  unkyndnes,!  0  Lord,  that  ather  we  declair  oure  selfis  un- 
thankfull  unto  thame,  or  prophanaris  of  thy  holie  name.  Con- 
found thow  the  counsalls  of  thame  that  go  about  to  brek  that 
maist  godlie  liegue  contractit  in  thy  name,  and  reteyne  thou 
us  sa  firmlie  togidder  by  the  power  of  thy  Holie  Spreit,  that 
Sathan  have  never  power  to  sett  us  agane  at  variance  nor  dis- 
cord. Geve  us  thy  grace  to  leif  in  that  Christiane  cheritie 
quhilk  thy  Sone,  our  Lord  Jesus,  hes  sa  earnestlie  commandit 
to  all  the  memberis  of  his  body;  that  uther  natiouns,  provockit 
'  In  AI8.  Ti,  "  unthankfulncss." 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  87 

be  our  exami^le,  may  sett  asyde  all  ungodlie  weir,  eontentioun, 
and  stryif,  and  studie  to  leif  in  tranquilitie  and  peace,  as  it 
becumis  the  scheij)  of  thy  pasture,  and  the  pepill  that  daylie 
luikis  for  our  finall  delyverance,  by  the  cuming  agane  of  oure 
Lord  Jesus  ;  to  whom  with  Thee,  and  the  Holie  Spreit,  be  all 
honour,  glorie,  and  prayse,  now  and  ever.     Amen. 

Heirefter  war  the  Commissionaris  of  Bruchis,  with  sum  of 
the  Nobilitie  and  Barronis,  appoyntit  to  see  the  equall  distribu- 
tioun  of  Ministeris,  to  change  and  transport  as  the  maist  pairt 
sould  think  expedient.  And  sua  was  Johne  Knox  appointit 
to  Edinburgh  ;  Christopher  Gudman,  (quha  the  maist  pairt 
of  the  trubillis  had  remanit  in  Ayre,)  was  appointit  to  Sanct- 
androis :  Adame  Heryot  to  Abirdene ;  Maister  Johnne  Row 
to  Sanct  Johnestoun  ;  Paull  Meffen,  (to  quhom  was  no  infamie 
than  knawin,)  to  Jedburgh  ;  Williame  Crystesoun  to  Dundie  ; 
and  David  Fergusoun  to  Dumfermling,  and  Maister  David 
Lyndsay  to  Leith.  Thair  war  nominat  for  Superintendantis, 
Maister  Johnne  Spottiswod  for  Lowtheane  ;  Maister  Johnne 
Wynrame  for  FyiF ;  Maister  Johnne  Willok  for  Glasgow  ;  the 
Laird  of  Dun  for  Anguss  and  Mearnis  ;  Maister  Johnne  Cars- 
wall  for  Ergyle  and  the  Iles.i  Thir  to  be  electit  at  the  dayis 
appointit,  unless  that  the  countreyis  quhairto  thay  war  to  be 
appointit  could  in  the  menetyme  fynd  out  men  mair  abill  and 
sufficient,  or  ellis  schaw  sick  causses  as  mycht  inhabill  thame 
from  that  dignitie. 

The  Parliament  2  approaching,  dew  adverteisment  was  maid, 

*  The  first  appointment  of  ^linisters  quhill   the   aucht   day   of   the    saniyn 

and  Supermtendents  to  the  chief  towns  moneth,"  (pp.  61,  278.)     The  names  of 

and  districts   in   Scotland,    was  made  the  persons  present  at  this  memorable 

about  the  20th  of  July  1560,  or  jjre-  Parliament  are  preserved   among  the 

viously  to  the  meeting  of  Parliament.  Cecil  Papers,  (MS.  Cotton.  Calig.  ix.  fol. 

^  In  the  Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  it  is  144.)     Although  printed  both   in   the 

stated,  that   "  Upon   the  first   day   of  Acta  Pari.  Scot.  vol.  ii.  p.  52-5,  and  in 

August,  the  Pai'liament  tuke  begyning,  Keith's  History,  I  shall  insert  the  list 

and  few  or  na  Lordis  came  to  the  samyn,  in  the  Appendix. 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  III. 


be  the  Counsall,  to  all  sick  as  by  law  and  ancient  custome  had 
or  mycht  clame  to  have  vote  thairin.  The  assembillie  was 
great,  nochtwithstanding  that  sum,  alsweill  of  thame  that  be 
callit  Spirituall  as  Temporall  Lordis,  contemptuouslie  did  absent 
thame  selffis  :  And  yit  the  clieif  pillaris  of  the  Papisticall 
Kirk  gave  thair  presence,  sick  as  the  Bischoppis  of  Sanct- 
androis,!  Dumblane,^  and  Dunkell,^  with  otheris  of  the  in- 
feriour  sort,  besydeis  thame  that  had  renunceit  Papistrie,  and 
oppinlie  professit  Jesus  Chryst  with  us ;  sick  as  the  Bischop  of 
Galloway,^  the  Abbotis  of  Lendorse,^  Culroiss,^  Sanct  Colmeis 
Insche,"  Newbottill,^  Halyrudhouse,^  the  Priour  of  Sanct- 
androis,!^  Coldinghame,ii  and  Sanct-Marie  Ile,i2  the  Suppriour 
of  Sanctandrois,!^  and  dy  verse  otheris  quham  we  observit  not. 
At  the  samyn  tyme  of  Parliament,  Johne  Knox  taught 
publicklie  the  propheit  Haggeus.  The  doctrin  was  proper  for 
the  tyme ;  in  applicatioun  quhairof  he  was  so  speciall  and  so 


'  John  Hamilton,  Archbishop  of  St. 
Andrew.?. 

2  William  Chisholm,  Bishop  of  Dun- 
blane, who  succeeded  his  brother  of  the 
half-blood  in  1527,  and  who  survived 
till  1564.  His  nephew  William  Chis- 
holm, was  constituted  his  coadjutor  and 
future  successor  in  the  See,  by  a  brief 
from  Pope  Pius  IV.  dated  4  Non.  Junij 
1561.     (Keith's  Catal.  p.  180.) 

^  Robert  Crichton,  Bishop  of  Dunkeld, 
who  Lad  previously  been  Provost  of  St. 
Giles's  Chiu'ch,  Edinburgh. 

*  Alexander  Gordon,  titular  Arch- 
bishop of  Athens,  and  Bishoj)  of  Gallo- 
way :  see  a  subsequent  note. 

^  Probably  John  Lesley  :  see  Abbots 
of  Lindores,  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
volume.  ■ 

«  William  Colville,  Commendator  of 
Culross :  see  Appendix. 

'  James  Stewart,  of  the  family  of 
Death,  Commendator  of  Inch-Colm,  or 
St.  Colme.  He  was  afterwards  knight- 
ed, and  raised  to  the  peerage. 


*  Mark  Ker,  Commendator  of  NeAV- 
battle,  ancestor  of  the  Earls  of  Lo- 
thian. 

^  Lord  Robert  Stewart,  a  natural  son 
of  King  James  the  Fifth,  Commendator 
of  Holyrood  House,  afterwards  titular 
Bishop  of  Caithness  and  Earl  of  Orkney : 
see  a  subsequent  note. 

1'^  Lord  James  Stewart,  Prior  of  St. 
Andrews,  and  afterwards  Earl  of  Mur- 
ray, and  Regent  of  Scotland. 

"  Lord  John  Stewart,  another  natural 
son  of  King  James  the  Fifth,  was  Prior 
of  Coldingham.  In  Book  Fourth,  Knox 
mentions  his  death  at  Inverness. 

^^  Robert  Richardson,  Prior  of  St. 
Mary's  Isle,  Kirkcudbright :  see  note 
to  vol.  i.  p.  372.  It  is  a  mistake,  how- 
ever, in  saying  that  he  died  in  1571 ;  as 
will  afterwards  be  explained. 

"  John  Wynrame,  Prior  of  Portmoak, 
and  Sub-prior  of  St.  Andrews :  see 
vol.  i.  p.  150;  and  a  subsequent  note  in 
the  present  volume. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  8'J 

vehement,  that  sum  (having  greater  respect  to  the  warld  than 
to  Goddis  glory,)  feilling  thair  selfRs  prickit,  said  in  mockage, 
"  We  mon  now  forget  our  selffis,  and  beir  the  barrow  to  buyld  j)]^^, 
the  housses  of  God."  i  God  be  mercifull  to  the  speikar ;  for  we 
feir  that  he  shall  have  experience  that  the  buylding  of  his 
awin  house  (tlie  house  of  God  being  despisit)  sail  not  be  so 
prosperouse,  and  of  sick  firmitie,  as  we  desyre  it  were.  And 
albeit  sum  mockit,  yitt  utheris  were  godlie  movit,  quha  did 
assembill  thame  selffis  togidder  to  consult  quhat  thyngis  were 
to  be  proponit  to  that  present  Parliament ;  and  efter  delibera- 
tioun,  was  this  subsequent  Supplicatioun  offerit : — 

The  Barronis,  Gentilmen,  Burgesses,  and  utheris,  trew 

SUBJECTIS  OF  THIS  ReALME,  PROFESSING  THE  LoRD  JeSUS 
ChRYST    WITHIN     THE    SAMYN  :     To    THE    NoBILITIE    AND 

EsTAiTis  OF  Parliament,  presentlie  assemblit  within 
THE  SAID  Realms,  desyre  grace,  mercy,  and  peace, 
frome  God  the  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Chryst, 

WITH  the  ingress  OF  HIS  HoLY  SpREIT  : 

Pleis  youre  Honouris  to  reduce  to  remembrance,  how 
dyverse  and  sundrie  tymeis  we  (with  sum  of  youre  selffis) 
maist  humbillie  suitit  at  the  feit  of  the  lait  Quene  Regent 
fredome  and  libertie  of  conscience,  with  a  godlie  reformatioun 
of  abuseis,  quliilk  by  the  malice  of  Sathane  and  negligence  of 
men,  are  cropin  in  Religioun  of  God,  and  are  menteynit  by  sick 
as  tak  upoun  thame  the  name  of  Clergye.  And  albeit  that 
oure  godlie  and  maist  reassonable  suyte  was  then  disdainfullie 
rejectit,  quhairof  na  small  trubillis  have  ensewit,  as  your 
Honouris  weill  knaw  ;  yit  seing  that  the  same  necessitie  yit 
remaneis  that  then  movit  us,  and,  mairover,  that  God  of  his 
mercie  has  now  put  into   your  handis  to  tak  sic  ordour  as 

1  William   Maitlaud   of   Lethington,  oratiou,  of  which  Randolph  has  given 

who  made  use  of  this  expression,  had  us    the    principal     heads." — (Tj  tier's 

been  chosen  Speaker  in  this  Parliament,  Hist.  vol.  vi.  p.  177.) 
and  had  "  opened  the  proceedings  in  an 


LANDS 
MOCKAGKOI-' 

con. 


90  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

God  thairby  may  be  glorifeit,  this  comniumvelth  quietit,  and 
the  policie  thairof  establischeit :  "We  can  not  cease  to  crave 
of  youre  handis  the  redress  of  sick  enormiteis,  as  manifestlie 
are  (and  of  lang  tyine  have  bene)  committit  be  the  place- 
halderis  of  the  Ministerie,  and  utheris  of  the  Clergy  within 
this  Reahn. 

And  First,  Seing  that  God  of  his  greit  mercy  by  the  lycht 
of   his   word,    has    manifestit   to    no    small    number   of  this 
Realme,  that  the  doctrin  of  the  Roman  Kyrk,  resaveit  be  the 
said  Clergy,  and  menteynit  throu  thair  tyi'annie  by  fyre  and 
sword,  conteinit  in  the  self  many  pestiferous  errouris,  quhilk 
can  not  but  bring  dampnatioun  to  the  saullis  of  sick  as  tliair- 
with  sail  be  infectit ;  sick  as  are  the  doctrine  of  Transsub- 
I  stantiatioun  ;  of  the  Adoratioun  of  Chryst  his  body  under  the 
/  forme  of  breid,  as  thay  term  it ;    of  the  mereitis  of  Warkis, 
\  and  Justificatioun  that  thay  allege  cumis  thairby ;   togidder 
I    with  the  doctrin  of  the  Papisticall   Indulgencis,   Purgatorie, 
\  Pilgrimage,    and   Praying   to   Sanctis    depairtit ;    quhilk   all 
'  either  repugne  to  the  plane  Scripturis,  or  ellis  have  no  ground 
of  the  doctrine  of  our  Maister  Jesus  Christ,  his  Propheitis,  nor 
Appostillis.     "We  humbillie  thairfoir  crave  of  your  Honouris, 
that  sick  doctrine  and  idolatrie  as  by  Goddis  word  are  con- 
;    dempnit,  so  may  thay  be  abolischeit  be  Act  of  this  present 
Parliament,  and  punischement  appointit  for  the  transgressouris. 
Secundlie,  Seing  that  the  Sacramentis  of  Jesus  Chryst  are 
maist   schamefullie    abusit    and   prophanit  by  that   Romane 
harlot  and  hir  sworne  vassallis ;   and  alssua  because  that  the 
treu  disciplyne  of  the  ancient  Kirk  is  utterlie  now  amangis 
that  sect  extinguischeit :  for  quha  within  the  Realme  are  mair 
corrupt  of  lyif  and  maneris  than  are  thay  that  are  callit  the 
Clergye,  living  in  huredome,  adultery,  defloring  virgeinis,  cor- 
rupting matronis,  and  doing  all  abominatioun,  without  feir  of 
punischement ;  "We  humbillie  thairfoir  desyre  youre  Honouris 
to  fynd  remedy  against  the  ane  and  the  uther. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  91 

Thirdlie,  Because  that  Man  of  Syn  often  maist  falslie  clanie.s 
to  him  self  the  titillis  of  "The  Vicare  of  Chryst ;  the  succcssour 
of  Peter;  tlie  held  of  the  Kirk  ;  that  he  can  not  err  ;  that  all 
power  is  grantit  unto  him,"  &c.,  by  the  quhilk  usurpit  autho- 
ratie,  he  taikis  upoun  him  the  distributioun  and  possessioun  of 
the  haill  patrimony  of  the  Kirk,  quhairby  the  trew  Ministeris 
of  the  word  of  God  lang  tyme  lies  bene  altogidder  neglectit, 
the  godlie  learning  dispysit,  the  sculeis  not  providit,  and  the 
poore  not  onlic  defraudit  of  thair  portioun,  but  alssua  tyran- 
nouslie  oj^pressit ;  We  lykwise  lieirof  desyre  remedy. 

And  least  that  your  Honouris  sould  dowt  of  any  of  thir  pre- 
misses, we  offer  oure  sclfis  evidentlie  to  prove,  that  in  all  the 
[rabill  of  the]  Clergye  thair  is  not  ane  lauchfnll  minister,  gif 
Godis  word,  the  practise  of  the  Apostillis,  and  thair  awin 
ancient  Lawis,  sail  judge  of  lauchfnll  electioun.  We  farther 
offer  oure  selfis  to  prove  thame  all  thevis  and  murtheraris, 
yea,  rebellis  and  tratouris  to  the  lauchfull  authoritie  of  Em- 
priouris,  Kyngis,  and  Prenceis;  and  thairfor  unworthy  to  be 
sufferrit  in  any  Reformeit  Commonwealth.  Quhow  mali- 
tiouslie  thay  have  murtherit  oure  brethren,  for  na  uther  cause, 
bot  for  that  thay  offerrit  to  us  the  liclit  of  Godis  word,  your 
Honouris  can  not  be  ignorant ;  and  in  quhat  hasard  thair 
tyrranie  hes  brocht  this  haill  Realme,  the  ages  efter  will  con- 
sidder.  Gif  ye  luik  of  thame  any  uther  fruit  in  tymeis  cum- 
ing',  than  ye  have  sene  in  thame  quham  we  accuse,  we  ar 
assurit  ye  sail  be  desavit.  Now  hes  God,  beyond  all  expec- 
tatioun  of  man,  maid  youre  selfis,  quha  sum  tymeis  war  sup- 
pliantis  with  us  for  Reformatioun,  jugeis,  as  it  war,  in  the 
caus  of  God.  At  least  he  hes  subdewit  your  ennemeis  unto 
you,  that  by  violence  thay  ar  nocht  abill  to  sujjpress  the 
veritie,  as  heirtofoir  thay  haif  done. 

We  thairfoir,  in  the  bowellis  of  Jesus  Chryst,  crave  of  your 
Honouris,  that  ather  thay  be  compellit  to  answer  to  our  former 
aceusationis,  and  to  sick  uthiris  as  we  justlie  have  to  lay  to 


<)2  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  REFORMATION.  Book  III. 

thair  chargeis,  or  ellis  that,  all  affectioun  laid  asyde,  ye  pro- 
nuiice  thame  be  censement  of  this  Parliament  sick,  and  cause 
thame  to  he  sua  reputit,  as  by  us  maist  justlie  thay  ar  accusit ; 
especiallie,  that  thay  be  decernit  unworthy  of  honour,  autho- 
ritie,  charge,  or  cure  within  the  Kyrk  of  God,  and  sa  from 
hencefurth  never  to  joy  votel  in  Parliament.  Quhilk  gif  ye  do 
not,  than  in  the  feir  of  God,  and  by  the  assurance  of  his  word, 
We  foirwairne  you,  that  as  ye  haif  ane  grevouse  yock,  and  anc 
burding  intollerabill  upoun  the  kyrk  of  God  within  this 
Realme,  so  sail  thay  be  thornis  in  youre  eyes,  and  pryckis 
in  your  sydis,  quhom  efter,  quhen  ye  wold,  ye  sail  have  no 
poAver  to  remove.  God  the  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Chryst 
give  yow  upricht  hartis,  seiking  his  glory  ;  and  trew  under- 
standing quhat  this  day  he  quha  delyverit  yow  fra  bondage, 
baitli  spirituall  and  temporall,  cravis  of  yow  by  his  servandis : 
And  youre  Honouris  Answer  maist  humbly  we  requyre. 

This  oure  Supplicatioun  being  red  in  audience  of  the  liaill 
assembly,  dy verse  men  war  of  dyverse  jugementis;  for  als  sone 
thair  war  that  uprichtlie  favourit  the  cause  of  God,  sa  war 
thair  many  that  for  warldlie  respectis  abhorrit  ane  perfect 
Reformatioun,  (for  how  many  within  Scotland  that  have  the 
name  of  Nobilitie,  ar  not  injust  possessouris  of  the  patrimony 
of  the  Kyrk.)  And  yitt  war  the  Barronis  and  Ministeris  callit, 
and  commandement  gevin  unto  thame,  to  draw,  in  playne 
and  severall  heidis,  the  summe  of  that  Doctrine,  quhilk  thay 
wald  menteyne,  and  wald  desyre  that  present  Parliament  to 
establische,  as  hailsomc,  trew,  and  onlie  necessarie  to  be 
beleivit,  and  to  be  resavit  within  that  Realme  :  Quhilk  thay 
willinglie  acceptit,  and  within  foure  dayis  presentit  this 
CoNFESSiouN  as  it  followis,  without  alteratioun  of  any  ane 
sentence : — 

'  In  Vautr.  edit.  "  to  enjoy  voice." 


THE  CONFESSIOUN  OF  FAITH  PROFESSIT  AND 
BELEVIT  BE  THE  PROTESTANTIS  WITHIN 
THE  REALME  OF  SCOTLAND,  PUBLISCHEIT 
BY  THAME  IN  PARLIAMENT,  AND  BE  THE 
ESTAITIS  THAIROF  RATIFEIT  AND  APPRO- 
VIT,  AS  HAILSOME  AND  SOUND  DOCTRINE, 
GROUNDIT  UPOUN  THE  INFALLABLE 
TREWTH  OF  GODIS  WORD. 


MATHEI  24. 

AND  THIS  GLAID  TYDINGIS  OF  THE  KYNGDOME  SALL  BE  PRECHEIT 
THROUGH  THE  HAILL  WARLD,  FOR  A  WITNES  UNTO  ALL  NATIOUNS, 
AND  THEN  SALL  THE  END  CUM. 


{Title-page  of  the  first  printed  edition.) 


Cf)e  Confeffione  of  tl)e  fapl)t  auD 

toctrin  tieleucU  antJ   ajroffffeU    ig   ti^e 

l^roMtantcs  of  i^c  l^ralmr  of  Scot* 

lanU  exi^iijiteli  to  ti^c  eftates  of  t^c 

fam  in  parliament  anU  iig  tijare 

publict  botes  autJ)orifeO  as  a 

tJoctrm  grountreti  bpon 

ti^e  mfaHable  iuourU 

of  ^oU. 


l^atti).  24. 
2lttB  t^is  glatU  tgUtnges  of  tije  femg* 
Dom  siialtie  preaci)eli  tijrougljt  tije  ijole 
toorlB  for  a  toitnefs  to  all  nations  anO 
tijen  sljall  ti^e  entJ  cum. 


ImprinteU  at  ^Binlmrgi), 
iie  2Aol)ert  ?Leftpreh)i&. 

€um  priuilegio. 
1561. 


[     9^' 


THE   PREFACE. 

The  Estaitis  of  Scotland,  with  the  Inhabitantis  of  the 
samyn,  professing  Chryst  Jesus  his  Holy  Evangell,^ 
To  thair  naturall  Cuntreymen,  and  to  all  utheris 
Realmeis  and  Natiouns,  professing  the  samyn  Lord 
Jesus  Avith  thame,  wische  grace,  peace,  and  mercy 
from  God  the  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Chryst,  with 
the  Spreit  of  rychteouse  jugement,  for  Salutatioun. 

Long  have  we  thristit,^  deir  Brethren,  to  half  notifeit  unto 
the  warld  the  summe  of  that  doctrin  quhilk  we  professe,  and 
for  the  quhilk  we  haif  sustenit  infamy  and  daingear.  Bot 
sik  hes  bene  the  rage  of  Sathan  against  us,  and  against 
Chryst  Jesus  his  eternall  veritie  laitlie  borne  amangis  us, 
that  to  this  day  na  tyme  hes  bene  grantit  unto  us  to  cleir 
our  consciencis,  as  maist  glaidlie  we  wald  have  done  ;  for  how 
we  have  bene  tossit  ane  haill  yeir  past,  the  maist  pairt  of 
Europe  (as  we  suppoise)  dois  understand.  Bot  seing  that  of  the 
infinite  gudnes  of  our  God  (quha  never  sufferris  his  afflictit  to 
be  utterlie  confoundit)  above  expectatioun,  we  have  obteinit 
sum  rest  and  libertie,  we  could  not  bot  sett  furth  this  breve 
and  playne  Confessioun  of  sik  doctrine  as  is  proponit  unto  us, 
and  as  we  beleif  and  professe,  pairtlie  for  satisfactioun  of  oure 
Brethren,  quhais  hartis  we  dout  not  have  bene  and  yitt  ar 
woundit  be  the  dispytefuU  railling  of  sik  as  yitt  have  not 
leirnit  to  speik  weill ;  and  pairtlie  for  stopping  of  the  mouthis 
of   impudent    blasphemaris,   quha  baldlie    condempne^    that 

1  In  Vautr.  edit.  &c.,  "  Gospell."  the  early  editions  of  this   Confession 

*  In  the  printed  copies  1561,  "  thrust-  -will  be  given  in  the  Appendix  to  this 

ed ;"  and  in  the  London  edit.  1561,  lines  volume. 

5-G,  of  the  title,  "  by  their  publicke  ^  In  the  printed  copies  1561,  "  damp- 
voices   authorised." — Some    notices  of  ne,"  and  "  damne." 


96  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

quhilk  thay  have  neitlier  hard  nor  yet  understand.  Not  that 
we  judge  tliat  the  cankerit  malice  of  sik  is  abill  to  be  cured 
be  this  sempill  Confessioun :  Na,  we  knaw  that  the  sweit, 
savour  of  the  Evangell  i  is,  and  sail  be  death  to  the  sonis  of 
perditioun.  Bot  we  haif  cheif  respect  to  our  weak  and  infirme 
brethren,  to  quham  we  wald  communicat  the  bottome  of  oure 
hartis,  least  that  thay  be  trubillit  or  careit  away  be  the  diver- 
siteis  of  rumouris  quhilk  Satlian  sparsis  contrar  us,2  to  the  de- 
fecting of  this  oure  maist  godlie  interprise ;  Protesting,  that 
gif  any  man  will  note  in  this  oure  Confessioun  any  article  or 
sentence  repugning  to  Godis  holie  word,  that  it  wald  pleis 
him  of  his  gentilnes,  and  for  Christiane  cherities  saik,^  to  ad- 
moneise  us  of  the  samyn  in  writt ;  and  We  of  our  honour 
and  fidelitie  do  promeis^  unto  him  satisfactioun  fra  the  mouth 
of  God,  (that  is,  fra  his  holy  Scriptures,)  or  ellis  refomiatioun 
of  that  quhilk  he  sail  prove  to  be  amyss.  For  God  we  talk  to 
record  in  our  conscienceis,  that  fra  oure  hartis  we  abhoir  all 
sectis  of  heresye,  and  all  techaris  of  erroneous  doctrine ;  and 
that  with  all  humylitie  we  embrace  the  j)uritie  of  Christis 
Evangell,  quhilk  is  the  onlie  foode  of  our  sauUis  ;  and  thairfoir 
sua  precious  unto  us,  that  we  ar  determinit  to  suffer  the  ex- 
tremitie  of  warldlie  daingear,  rather  than  that  we  will  suffer 
oure  selvis  to  be  defraudit  of  the  same.  For  heirof  we  ar 
maist  certainlie  persuaidit,  "  That  quhasoever  denyis  Chryst 
Jesus,  or  is  eschameit  of  him,  in  presens  of  men,  sail  be  denyit 
befoir  the  Father,  and  befoir  his  holie  angellis."  And  thairfoir 
be  the  assistance  of  the  mychtie  Spreitt  of  the  same,  oure 
Lord  Jesus,  we  firmlie  purpoise  to  abyde  to  the  end  in  the 
Confessioun  of  this  oure  Faith.^ 


'  III  Lond.  ecUt.  1561,  "  Gospell."  are  here  omitted,  and  the  passage  reads  : 

2  In  Lond.  edit.  1561,  "  spreads  abrode  "  repugnyng  to  God's  holye  worde,  and 
against  us."  do  adnionishe  us  of  the  same  in  writyng. 

3  In  Edinb.  edit.  1561,  "  for  Christes  we  by  God's  grace  do  promesse,"  &c. 
and  cherites  sake."  '•  In  the  printed  copies  1561,  "  oure 

*  In  Lond.  edit.  1561,  several  words  Faitlie,  as  by  articulis  followeth." 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  97 

Off  God. — Cap.  i.  i 
We  confesse  and  acknawledge  ane  onlie  God,  to  quliom  onlie  ^^^^-  ^ 
we  must  cleave,   [quliom  onlie  we  must  serve,  2]  quliom  onlie 
we  must  wirscliip,  and  in  quliom  onlie  we  must  put  our  trust ; 
quha  is  eternall,  infinite,  unmesurable,  incomprehensible,  om-  ^^^^^q, 
nipotent,  invysible  :  ane  in  substance,  and  yit  distinct  in  tlire  Gen.  i. 
personis,    the   Father,   the  Sone,  and  the    Holie  Ghost :    Be 
quliom  we  confesse  and  beleif  all   thyngis  in  hevin  and  in 
earth,  alsweill  visible  as  invisible,  to  liaif  bene  creatit,  to  be 
reteanit  in  tliair  being,  and  to  be  rewllit  and  gydeit  be  his  Esai. 
inscrutabill  Providence,  to  sick  end  as  his  eternall  wisdom e, 
gudnes,  and  justice  lies  appointit  thame,   to  the  manifesta-  Proverb,  lo. 
tioun  of  his  awin  glorie. 

Off  the  Creatioun  of  Man. — Cap.  ii. 
We  confesse  and  acknawledge  this  oure  God  to  half  creatit  oen.  i.  2. 
Man,   (to  witt,  our  fyrst  father  Adam)  of  quhom  also   God 
formit  the  Woman  to  his  awin  image  and  similitude  ;3  to  quhom 
he  gaif  wisdome,  lordschip,  justice,  fre-will,  and  cleir  knawledge 
of  him  selff ;  sua  that  in  the  liaill  nature  of  man  thair  could 
be  iiotit  na  imperfectioun :    Frome  quliilk  honour  and  perfec- 
tioun  man  and  woman  did  baith  fall ;  the  woman  being  desavit  G«n.  3. 
be  the  Serpent,  and  man  obeying  to  the  voice  of  the  woman, 
baith  conspyring  against  the  Soverane  Majestic  of  God,  quha 
in  expressit    wordis  of  befoir  had  threatnit  death,  gif  thay 
presumeit  to  eit  of  the  forbiddin  tree. 

^  The  numbers  of  the  Chapters,  and  printed  copies,  "in  the  following  notes  to 

the  marginal  Scriptural  references  are  the  Confession,  is  signified  the  editions 

not  contained  in  any  of  the  MS.  copies  printed  in  1561,  and  the  sevei-al  editions 

of  Knox's  History.     They  are  here  sup-  of  the  Acts  of  Parliament  1567. 

plied  from  the  first  edition  of  the  Con-  ^  The  words,  "  of  quhom  also  God  for- 

fession,  printed  by  Lekprevik  in  1561,  mit  the  woman  to  his  awin  image  and 

compared  with  the  Acts  of  Parliament  similitude,"  are  omitted  in  the  editions 

of  1567,  printed  in  1568.  of  the  Confession  1561,  and  of  the  Acts 

*  These  words,  and  such  others  as  are  of  Parliament  1567  :  also  in  Adarason's 

inclosed  within  brackets,  are  omitted  Latin  translation,  1572. 
in  the  copies  of  Knox.     By  "  the  old 

VOL.  ir.  a 


98  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

Off  Originall  Syn. — Cap.  hi. 
Rom'^'^'  ^y  quhilk  transgressioiin,  commonlie  callit  Originall  Syn, 

R°om;  f.  8.  """^^  *^^*^  image  of  God  utterlie  defaceit  in  man  ;  and  lie  and 
liis  posteritie  of  nature  became  ennemeis  to  God,  slavis  to 
Satlian,  and  servantis  to  syn ;  in  samekill  that  death  everlest- 
ing  lies  haid,  and  sail  have  power  and  dominioun  over  all 
that  hes  not  hene,  ar  not,  or  sail  not  be  regenerat  frome  above  : 
qnhilk  regeneratioun  is  wrocht  be  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  wirking  in  the  liartis  of  the  elect  of  God  ane  assureit 
faith  in  the  promeise  of  God,  reveillit  to  us  in  his  word  ;  by 
quhilk  faith  thay  apprehend  l  Chryst  Jesus,  with  the  graces 
and  benefites  promesit  in  him. 

Off  the  Revelatioun  of  the  Phomeis. — Cap.  iv. 
For  this  we  constantlie  beleif,  that  God,  efter  the  feirfull 
and  horribill  defectioun  of  man  frome  his  obedience,  did  seik 
Adam  agane,  call  upoun  him,  rebuk  his  syn,  convict  him  of 
the  same,  and  in  the  end  maid  unto  him  a  maist  joy  full  pro- 
Gen.  5.  meisse,  to  witt,  "  That  the  seid  of  the  woman  sould  brek  doun 
the  serpentis  heid  ;"  that  is,  he  sould  destroy  the  warkis  of  the 
Devill.  Quhilk  promeis,  as  it  was  rejjeitit  and  maid  mair  cleir 
from  tyme  to  tyme,  sua  was  it  embraceit  with  joy,  and  maist 
constantlie  retenit^  of  all  the  faithfull,  frome  Adam  to  Noah, 
frome  Noah  to  Abraham,  from  Abraham  to  David,  and  "sua 
fuiih  to  the  incarnatioun  of  Chryst  Jesus  :  qulia  all  (we  mene 
the  faithfull  Fathcris  under  the  law,)  did  se  the  joyfull  dayis 
of  Christ  Jesus,  and  did  rejoyse. 

The  Continuance,  Increase,  and  Preservatioun  of  the 
Kirk. 3 — Cap.  v. 

We  maist  constantlie  beleif,  that  God  preservit,  instruetit, 
multipleit,  honourit,  decoirit,  and  frome  death  callit  to  lyfe  his 

'lathe  old  printed  copies,  "weap-  ^i^  the  old  printed  copies,  "ressavit." 

prchcnd."  ■'  In  the  editions  1561,  "  Church." 


Gen.  12. 


12.13. 
Exod.  1.2. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  99 

Kirk  ill  all  aig-es,  fra  Adam,  till  the  cumiiig  of  Cliryst  Jesus  in  o 
the  flesche :  for  Abraham  he  callit  frome  his  fatheris  cuntrey,  exoa  20 
him  he  instructit,  his  seid  he  multipleit,  the  same  he  mar- 
valouslie  preservit,  and  mair  marvelouslie  delyverit  frome  the 
bondage  [and  tyranny]  of  Pharao  ;  to  thame  he  gaif  his  lawis, 
constitiitiouns,  and  ceremoneis  ;  thame  he  possessit  in  the  land  iXm^'i^  23 
of  Canaan ;  to  thame  efter  Jugeis,  and  efter  Saule  he  gaif  David  2  Reg.  17. 
to  be  kyng-,  to  quham  he  maid  promeise,  "  That  of  the  fruit  of 
his  loynis  sould  ane  sitt  for  ever  upouii  his  regall  saitt."     To 
this  same  pepill  from  tyme  to  tyme  he  send  propheittis  to  re- 
duce thame  to  the  recht  way  of  thair  God,  frome  the  quhilk 
often  tymis  tliay  declyneit  by  idolatrie.     And  albeit  for  thair 
stubburne  contempt  of  justice,  he  was  compellit  to  gif  thame 
in  the  liandis  of  thair  ennemeis,  as  befoir  was  threatnit  by  the 
mouth  of  Moyses,  in  samekill  that  the  halye  citie^  was  de- 2  ^eg.  24.  a.-;, 
stroyit,  the  tempill  biynt  with  fyre,  and  the  haill  land  left  ^^^  f- 
desolat  the  space  of  sevintie   yeiris  ;    yitt  of  mercy  did  he  z^i,.\"' 
reduce  thame  agane  to  Jerusalem,  quhair  the  citie  and  tempill 
war  reedifeit,  and   they,   against   all   temptatiounis  and   as- 
saultis  of  Sathan,  did  abyde  till  the  Messias  came,  according 
to  the  promeise. 

Off  the  Incarnatioun  of  Chryst  Jesus. — Cap.  vr. 
Qulian  the  fulnes  of  tyme  came,  Grod  send  his  Sone,  his 
Eternall  Wisdome,  the  substance  of   his  awin  glory,  in  this  cai.  4. 
warld,  quha  tuik  the  nature  of  manheid  of  the  substance  of 
ane  woman,  to  witt,  of  ane  Virgin,  and  that  be  the  operatioun  of  luc.  1, 2. 
the  Holie  Ghost :  And  sa  was  borne  the  just  seid  of  David,  the 
angell  of  the  greit  counsall  of  God ;  the  ven-ay  Messias  pro-  Esai. 
mesit,  quham  we  acknawledge  and  confesse  Emanuell ;  verray 
God  and  verray  man,  twa  perfyte  naturis  unitit   and  joy  nit 
in  ane  persone.     By  quhilk  oure  confessioun  we  dampne^  the 

» In  the  MSS.  of  Knox,   "  the  haill  =  In  the  old   pvinteJ   copies,  "  con- 

eitie."  dempne." 


Heb.  2. 


100  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

damnabill  and  jjestilent  hereseyis  of  Arrius,  Marcion,  Euticlies, 
Nestorius,  and  sick  utheris,  as  either  deny^  the  eternitie  of  his 
Godheid,  either  the  veratie  of  his  human  nature,  either  con- 
found thame,  either  yit  dev;)'-de  thame. 

QUHY  IT  BEHOVIT  THE  MeDIATOUR  TO  BE  VERRAY  GOD  AND 

VERRAY  Man. — Cap.  vii. 

We  acknawledge  and  confesse,  that  this  maist  wonderous 

conjunctioun  betwix  the  Godheid  and  the  Manheid  in  Chryst 

Jesus,  did  proceid  frome  the  eternall  and  immutabill  decree 

of  God,  quhence  alssua  oure  salvatioun  springis  and  dependis.  2 

Electioun. — Cap.  viii. 
For  that  samyn  Eternall  God,  and  Father,  quha  of  mere 
Eph.  1.  mercy  electit  us  in  Chiyst  Jesus  his  Sone,  befoir  the  funda- 
tioun  of  the  warld  was  laid,  appoyntit  him  to  be  oure  Held, 
our  Brother,  our  Pastoure,  and  greit  Bishop  of  oure  Saullis. 
Bot  becaus  that  the  enmitie  betwix  the  justice  of  God  and  our 
synnes  was  sick,  that  no  flesche  by  it  self  could  or  mycht 
have  atteanit  unto  God,  it  behovit  that  the  Sone  of  God  sould 
discend  unto  us,  and  tak  him  selff  ane  body  of  oure  body, 
flesche  of  oure  flesche,  and  bane  of  oure  baneis,  and  sua 
became  ^  the  perfyte  Mediatour  betwix  God  and  man ;  giiBng 
power  to  sa  mony  as  beleif  in  him  to  be  the  sonis  of  God,  as 
him  seliF  dois  witnesse — "  I  pas  up  to  my  Father  and  unto 
your  Father,  to  my  God  and  unto  your  God."  By  quhilk 
maist  halie  fraternitie,  quhatsoever  we  have  lost^  in  Adam  is 
restoirit  to  us  againe.  And  for  this  cause  ar  we  not  eifrayit  to 
call  God  our  father,  not  samekill  in  that  he  hes  creatit  us,^ 

*  In  the  old  printed  copies,   "  did  ment  1567,  "  fra  quhilk  all  om-  salva- 
deny;"  and  "  or,"  instead  of  "  eithei-,"  tioun  springs  and  depends." 
in  the  two  next  lines.  *  In  the  old  printed  copies,  "  become." 

*  In  the  edition   1561,  and  MS.  G,  *  In  the  Acts  1567,  "  have  tmt." 
"  whence  also  our  salvation  springeth,  ^  In  the  editions  1561,  "  not  so  much 
and  dependeth;"  in  the  Acts  of  Parlia-  because  he  hath  created  us." 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  101 

(quliilk  we  have  common  with  tlie  reprobat,)  as  for  that  he  hes 
gevin  to  us  his  onlie  Sone  to  be  our  brother,  and  gevin  unto 
us  grace  to  [acknawledge  and]  embrace  him  for  oure  onlie 
Mediatour,  as  befoir  is  said.  It  behovit  farther,  the  Messias 
and  Redeemer  to  [be]  verray  God  and  verray  Man,  becaus 
he  was  to  underlyi  the  punishment  dew  for  oure  transgres- Esai.  ;;3. 
siouns,  and  to  present  him  selff  in  the  presence  of  his  Fatheris 
jugement,  as  in  oure  persone,  to  suffer  for  our  transgressioun 
and  inobedience,  by  death  to  ovircum  him  that  was  author  of 
death.  Bot  becaus  the  onlie  Godlieid  could  not  suffer  death, 
neyther  could  the  onlie  Manheid  ovircum  the  same  ;  he  joynit 
baith  togidder  in  ane  persone,  that  the  imbecilitie  of  the  ane 
sould  suffer,  and  be  subject  to  death,  (quhilk  we  haid  deservit,) 
and  the  infinite  and  invincible  power  of  the  uther,  to  wit,  of 
the  Godheid,  sould  tryumphe  and  purchese  till  us  lyfe,  libertie, 
and  perpetuall  victorie.  And  so  we  confess,  and  maist  un- 
dowtedlie  beleif 

Chrystis  Death,  Passioun,  Buryall,  &c. — Cap.  ix. 
That  our  Lord  Jesus  Chryst  offerrit  him  self  ane  voluntarie 
sacrifice  unto  his  Father  for  us ;  that  he  sufferrit  contradictioun 
of  synneris  ;  that  he  was  woundit  and  plaigit  for  our  transgres-  "eb.  12. 
siouns  ;  that  he  being  the  clene  and  innocent  Lamb  of  God,  was 
dampnit  in  the  presence  of  an  earthlie  juge,  that  we  mycht 
be  absolvit  befoir  the  tribunall  seat  of  our  God  ;  that  he  sufferit 
not  onlie  the  creuell  death  of  the  croce  (quhilk  was  accursit  be  °*''*'-  ^^ 
the  sentance  of  God,)  bot  alssua  that  he  sufferrit  for  a  seassone  ^'^i-  ^• 
the  wrath  of  his  Father,  whilk   synnaris   had  deser\at.     Bot 
yitt  we  avow,  that  he  remaneit  the  onlie  and  weilbelovit  and 
blissit  Sone  of  his  Father,  evin  in  the  myddis  of  his  anguysche 
and  torment,  quhilk  he  sufferrit  in  body  and  saull,  to  mak 
the  full  satisfactioun  for  the  synnis  of  his  pepill.  "^     Efter  the  i^eu.  10. 

^  In  the  London  edition  1561,   "to  *  In  the  old   printed   copies,   "  the 

beare  upon  him."  people." 


102  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

quliilk,  we  confesse  and  avow,  that  tliair  remaneis  na  uther 
sacrifice  for  sjnnis ;  quhilk  gif  any  affirme,  we  nathing  doAvt 
to  avow  that  thay  are  blaspliemaris  against  Chiystis  death, 
and  the  everlesting  purgatioun  and  sattisfactioun  purchessit 
till  us  by  the  same. 

Resurrectioun. — Cap.  x. 
We  iindoutedlie  beleif,  that  insamekill  as  it  was  impossibill 
that  the  doloiiris  of  death  sould  reteane  in  bondage  the  Author 
of  lyff,  that  our  Lord  Jesus  Chiyst  cmcifeit,  deid,  and  buryit, 
quha  discendit  into  hell,  did  raise  agane  for  our  justificatioun, 
and  distroying  [of]  him  who  was  [the]  author  of  death,  brocht 
lyfe  agane  to  us  that  war  subject  to  death  and  to  the  bondage 
of  the  same.  We  knaw  that  his  resurrectioun  was  confirmit 
be  the  testimonye  of  his  verray  ennemeis ;  by  the  resurrec- 
tioun of  the  deid,  quhais  sepulturis  did  oppin,  and  thay  did 
arise  and  apperit  to  many  within  the  Citie  of  Jerusalem.  It 
was  alssua  confiraiit  be  the  testimonie  of  [his]  Angellis,  and  be 
the  senses  and  jugementis  of  his  Apostleis,  and  [of]  utheris, 
quha  had  conversatioun,  and  did  eit  and  drynk  with  him  efter 
his  resurrectioun. 

AscENsiouN. — Cap.  xi. 
We  nathing  dowt,  bot  that  the  selff  samyn  bod}^,  quhilk  was 
borne  of  the  Virgine,  was  cnicifeit,  deid,  and  buried,  and  quhilk 
did  ryse  agane,  did  ascend  into  the  heavinis  for  the  accompleisch- 
ment  of  all  thingis ;  quhair,  in  oure  names,  and  for  our  con- 
fort  he  hes  resavit  all  power  in  hevin  and  in  earth,  quhair  he 
sittis  at  the  rycht  hand  of  the  Father  inaugurat  in  his  king- 
dome,  advocat  and  onlie  Mediatour  for  us ;  quhilk  glorie, 
honour,  and  prerogatyve  he  allone  amangis  the  brethren  sail 
possesse,  till  that  all  his  ennemyes  be  maid  his  futestule,  as 
that  we  undoubtedlie  beleif  thay  sail  be  in  the  finall  jugement ; 
to  the  execution  quhairof  we  certainlie  beleif  that  the  same 
oure  Lord  Jesus  sail  visibillie   returne  as  that  he  was  scne  to 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  103 

ascend :  And  than  we  firmlie  belief,  tliat  the  tynie  of  refresch- 
ing  and  restitutioun  of  all  thingis  sail  cum,  in  samekill  that 
thay  that  from  the  beginning  have  sufferit  violence,  injurie, 
and  wrang  for  rychteousnes  saik,  sail  inherit  that  blissit  im- 
mortalitie  promesit  from  the  beginning  ;  bot  contrariewyse,  the  ^p'^-  ^o- 
stubburne,  inobedient,  cruell,  oppressouris,  filthy  personeis,  2*^'  ^e. 
adulteraris,  and  all  sortis  of  unfaithfull  [men]  sail  be  cast  in 
the  dungeoun  of  utter  darknes,  quhair  thair  worme  sail  not 
dye,  neather  yitt  thair  fyre  [sail]  be  extinguisclieit.  The  re- 
membrance of  the  quhilk  day,  and  of  the  jugement  to  be  exe- 
cutit  in  the  same,  is  not  onlie  to  us  ane  brydill  quhairby  oure 
carnall  iustis  ar  refranit ;  but  alsso  sick  inestimabill  confort, 
that  neather  may  the  threatning  of  wardlie  princeis,  neyther 
yitt  the  feir  of  temporall  death  and  present  daingear  move  us 
to  renunce  and  forsaik  that  blissit  societie,  quhilk  we  the 
members  have  with  oure  Head  and  onlie  Mediatour  Christ 
Jesus,  whome  we  confesse  and  avow  to  be  the  Messias  pro- 
missed,  the  only  Head  of  his  Kirk,  our  just  Lawgevar,  oure 
onlie  Hie  Preast,  Advocat,  and  Mediatour.     In  whiche  honouris  ^^^'-  ''• 

Collos.  1. 

and  offices,  yf  man  or  angell  presume  to  intmse  thame  selfis, 

we  utterlie  detest  and  abhorre  thame,  as  blasphemous  to  oure  neb.  a  lo. 

Soverane  and  Supreame  Governour,  Christ  Jesus. 

Faith  in  the  Holy  Ghost. — Cap.  xii. 

This  our  Faith,  and  the  assurance  of  the  same,  proceidis  not  ^i^^-  is- 
frome  flesche  and  blood,  that  is  to  say,  frome  no  naturall 
poweris  Avithin  us,  but  is  the  inspiratioun  of  the  Holy  Ghost :  15 
Whome  we  confesse  God,  equall  Avitli  the  Father  and  with  the 
Sone ;  who  sanctifieth  us,  and  bringeth  us  in  all  veritie  by 
his  awin  operatioun  ;  without  whome  we  should  remane  for 
ever  enemyes  to  God,  and  ignorant  of  his  Sone,  Christ  Jesus. 
For  of  nature  we  ar  so  dead,  so  blynd  and  so  perverse,  that 
neather  can  we  feill  when  we  ar  pricked,  see  the  lycht  when 
it  schvnes,  nor  assent  to  the  will  of  God  when  it  is  reveilled ; 


Joan.  14. 
le. 


104  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

onliel  the  Spreit  of  the  Lord  Jesus  quickinneth  that  which  is 
dead,  removeth^  the  darknes  from  our  myndis,  and  boweth 
cure  stubburne  heartis  to  the  obedience  of  his  blessed  will. 
And  so  as  we  confesse  that  God  the  Father  created  us  when 
we  war  not ;  as  his  Sone,  our  Lord  Jesus  redeamit  us  when  we 
war  ennemyes  to  him :  so  also  do  we  confesse  that  the  Holy 
Ghost  dois  sanctifie  and  regenerat  us,  without  all  respect  of 

Rom.  5.  any  merite  pi'oceading  from  us,  be  it  befoir,  or  be  it  after  oure 
regeneratioun.  To  speak  this  one  thing  yit  in  more  plane 
wordis,  as  we  willinglie  spoyle  oureselves  of  all  honour  and 
glorie  of  oure  awin  creatioun  and  redemptioun  ;  so  do  we  also 
of  oure  regeneratioun  and  sanctificatioun :  For  of  our  selves 
we  ar  nott  sufficient  to  think  ane  good  tlioght ;  but  he  who  hes 

2  coiin.  3.  begune  the  good  work  in  us,  is  onlie  he  that  continueth  us  in 
the  same,  to  the  praise  and  glorie  of  his  undeserved  grace. 

The  Cause  of  Good  Workis. — Cap.  xiii.^ 

Joan.  15.  So  that  the  caus  of  Good  workis,  we  confess  to  be,  nott  our 

Ephes.  2.  free  will,  but  the  Spreit  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  who  dwelling  in 
oure  heartis  be  trew  faith,  bringis  furth  sick  good  workis  as 
God  hath  prepared  for  us  to  walk  into  :  for  this  we  most  bold- 
lie  affirm,  that  blasphemy  it  is  to  say,  that  Christ  Jesus  abydis 
in  the  heartis  of  sick  as  in  whome  thair  is  na  spreit  of  Sancti- 
ficatioun. And  thairfoir  we  fear  nott  to  affirme,  that  murther- 
raris,  oppressouris,  cruell  persecutaris,  adulteraris,  whoremon- 
garis,  filthy  personis,  idolateris,  drounkardis,  theavis,  and  all 
workaris  of  iniquitie,  have  neather  trew  faith,  neather  any 
portioun  of  the  spreat  of  Sanctificatioun,  whiche  proceadeth 
frome  the  Lord  Jesus,  so  long  as  thei  obstinatlie  continew  in 
thair  wickednes.  For  how  sone  that  ever  the  spreit  of  the 
Lord  Jesus,  (whiche  Godis  elect  children  resave  by  trew  fayth,) 

>  &  2  In  the  old  printed  coiiics,  "  un-  the  Acts  of  Parliament  1567,  this  Chap- 
less  the  Spirite,  &c.  qmckin  that;"  and  ter  is  numbered  14,  and  the  mistake  is 
"  remove  the,"  &c. :  "  and  bow."  continued  throughout,  so  that  the  last 

^  In  the  old  printed  copies,  including  Chapter  25,  is  numbered  26. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  105 

takis  possessioun  in  the  lieart  of  any  man,  so  soon  dois  he 
reg-cnerat  and  renew  the  same  man ;  so  that  he  begynnis  to 
hate  that  whiche  befoir  he  luffit,  and  begynnis  to  luif  that 
whiche  befoir  lie  hated ;  and  from  thence  cumis  that  con- 
tinewall  battell  which  is  betwix  the  flcsche  and  the  spreit  in 
Godis  children ;  while  the  flesche  and  naturall  man  (accord- 
ing to  the  awin  corruptioun)  lustis  for  things  pleasing  and  cai.  s. 
delectable  unto  the  self,  grudges  in  adversitie,  is  lyfted  up 
in  prosperitie,  and  at  everie  moment  is  prone  and  reddye  to 
offend  the  Majestie  of  God.  Bot  the  Spreit  of  God,  Avhiche 
giveth  witnessing  till  our  spreit,  that  we  ar  the  sones  of  God,  Rom.  s. 
makis  us  to  resist  the  devill,  to  abliorri  fylthy  pleasouris,  to 
groane  in  Godis  presence  for  deliverance  from  this  boundage  of 
corniptioun ;  and  finally,  so  triumphe  over  syne  that  it  reigne 
not  in  our  mortall  bodyes.  This  battell  hes  nott  the  carnall 
men,  being  destitut  of  Goddis  Spreitt ;  but  do  follow  and  obey 
syn  with  greadynes,  and  without  repentance,  evin  as  the 
devill  and  thair  corrupt  lustis  do  prick  thame.  But  the  sonnes 
of  God  (as  befoir  is  said)  does  feght  against  syn,  do  sobb  and 
miu'ne,  when  they  perceave  thame  selfis  tempted  to  iniquitie  ; 
and  gif  they  fall,  they  ryse  agane  with  earnest  and  unfeaned 
repentance.  And  these  thingis  they  do  nott  by  thair  awin 
power,  but  the  power  of  the  Lord  Jesus  (without  whome  thai 
war  able  to  do  nothing)  wyrketh  in  thame  all  that  is  good.  2       Joan  is. 

What  Workis  ar  reputed  Good  befoir  God. — Cap.  xiv.3 
We  confesse  and  acknawledge,  that  God  hes  gevin  to  man 
his  holy  law,  in  whiche  not  onlie  ar  forbiddin  all  sick  workis  Deut.  I ' 

1  In  the  old  printed  copies,  tlie  words,  ^  jj^^  marginal  notes  on  this  and  the 

"  the  devill,  to  abhorr,"  are  omitted.  following  Chapters,  (with  the  exception 

-  In  the  editions  1561,  and  in  the  of  the  Scripture  references,)  are  not  con- 
Acts  1567,  the  last  seven  words  are  tained  in  Lekprevik's  edition  1561:  they 
omitted  :  the  sentence  runs  thus,  "  but  are  copied  from  the  edition  of  the  Con- 
by  the  power  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  with-  fession,  printed  at  London  by  R.  Hall, 
out  whom  thai  war  hable  to  do  uo-  1561,  small  8vo. 
thing." 


106  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

The  Law.  whiclie  displease  and  offend  his  Godlye  Majestie  ;  but  also  ar 
commanded  all  sick  as  please  him,  and  as  he  hath  promised 
to  rewarde.  And  these  workis  be  of  tTvo  sortis ;  the  one  ar 
done  to  the  honour  of  God,  the  other  to  the  proffit  of  our 
nychtbouris  ;  and  baith  have  the  reveilled  will  of  God  for  thair 

Theworkesof  assurancc.     To  have  one  God,  to  wirschepe  and  honour  him;  to 

the  Firfct  _  _  '  -^  _ 

Table.  call  upoun  him  in  all  our  trubles  ;  to  reverence  his  holy  name  ; 

to  hear  his  word ;  to  beleve  the  same ;  to  communicat  with 

Ephes.  6.       liis    holy   sacraments  ; — ar   the   workis    of  the    First   Table. 

^jJ^^^J^^^^^^To  honour  father,   mother,  princes,   reuUaris,   and  superiour 

"^^^^^^  poweris  ;  to  love  thame  ;  to  supporte  thame,  yea,  to  obey  thair 

charges  (not  repugnyng  to  the   commandiment  of  God)  ;   to 

.Tere^'2?'       ^avc  the  ly^'cs  of  innocents ;  to  represse  tyranny ;  to  defend 

frhi-'^i  the  oppressed  ;  to  keep  our  bodyes  cleane  and  holy  ;  to  lyve 
in  sobrietie  and  temperance ;  to  deall  justlie  with  all  men, 
boyth  in  word  and  in  deed ;  and,  finallie,  to  represse  all  appe- 
tite of  our  nychtbouris  hurte  ; — ar  the  good  workis  of  the 
Second  Table,  whiche  ar  most  j)leasing  and  acceptable  unto 
God,  as  those  workis  that  are  commanded  by  him  self.     The 

Things  con-    coutrarie  whairof  is   syn  most   odiouse,    whiche   always  dis- 

tran  to  the  .;  >  t/ 

ciiSi  Tabie*^^  pleasses  him,  and  provokes  him  to  anger, — as,  nott  to  call  upoun 
him  allone  when  we  have  nead  ;  not  till  hear  his  word  with 
reverence ;  to  contempne  and  despyse  it  ;  to  have  or  to 
wyrschipe  idolles  ;  to  mainteane  and  defend  idolatrie  ;  lychtlie 
to  esteame  the  reverent  name  of  God  ;  to  prophane,  abuse,  or 

Eze'k  22  contempne  the  sacramentis  of  Christ  Jesus  ;  to  disobey  or  re- 
sist any  that  God  hes  placed  in  authoritie,  (while  thei  pas  not 
ower  the  boundis  of  thair  office)  ;  to  murther,  or  to  consent 
thairto,  to  bear  hattrent,  or  to  suffer  innocent  blood  to  be 
schedd  geve  we  may  ganestandi  it ;  and,  finallie,  the  trans- 
gressing of  any  other  commandiment  in  the  First  or  Secound 
Table,  we  confesse  and  affirme  to  be  syn,  by  the  which 
Goddis  bote  displeasour  is  kendilled^  against  the  proude  and 

^  In  the  old  printed  copies,  "  with-  -  In  the  old  printed  copies,  "  Goddis 

stand."  hait  and  displcsoure  is  kendlit." 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  107 

iintliankfull  world.  So  that  Good  workis  we  affirme  to  be  tliese 
onlie  that  ar  done  in  faith,  [and]  at  Goddis  commandiment, 
who  in  liis  law  lies  expressed  what  be  the  thingis  that  please 
him :  And  Evill  workis,  we  affirme,  nott  onlie  those  that  ar 
expressedlie  done  against  Goddis  commandiment,  but  those 
also  that,  in  materis  of  religioun  and  wirschipping  of  God,  have 
no  [nther]  assurance  butt  the  inventioun  and  opinioun  of  man,  y^l^  j- 
whiclie  God  frome  the  begynning  hes  ever  rejected ;  as  by 
the  prophete  Esaias,  and  by  our  maister  Christ  Jesus,  we  ar 
taught  in  these  wordis — "  In  vane  do  they  wirschepe  me,  teich- 
ing  the  doctrine  being  preceptis  of  men."  i 

The  Perfectioun  of  the  Law  and  Imperfectioun 
OF  Man. — Cap.  xv. 

The  Law  of  God,  we  confesse  and  acknawledge  most  just,  Rom.  7. 
most  equall,  most  holy,  and  most  perfite  ;  commanding  those  Psai  la 
thingis,  whiche  being  wrocht  in  perfectioun,  war  able  to  geve 
lyfe,  and  [able]  to  bring  man  to  eternall  felicitie  :    But  our  na-  Deut.  5. 
ture  is  so  corrupt,  so  M^eak,  and  imperfite,  that  we  ar  never  able 
to  fulfill  the  workis  of  the  Law  in  perfectioun  ;  yea,  "  Yf  we  say  Rom.  10. 
we  have  no  syn,  (evin  after  we  ar  regenerat,)  we  deceive  our 
selfis,  and  the  veritie  of  God  is  not  into  us."     And  thairfoir  it  ^  '^'''"''  ^■ 

Rom.  10. 

behoved  us  to  ai^prehend  Christ  Jesus,  with  his  justice  andoais. 
satisfactioun,  who  is  the  end  and  accomplishment  of  the  Law, 
to  all  that  beleve,  by  wdiome  we  ar  sett  at  this  libertie,  that 
the  curse  and  maledictioun  of  God,2  fall  not  upoun  us,  albeit  ^^^Y" 
that  we  fulfill  not  the  same   in    all  pointis.       For  God  the  Rom.  4. 
Father  beholding  us  in  the  body  of  his  Sone  Christ  Jesus, 
accepteth  oure  imperfyte  obedience   as   it   ware   perfite,  and 
coverith  our  workis,  whiche  ar  defyled  with  many  spottis,  with 
the  justice  of  his  Sone.     We  do  not  meane  that  we  ar  so  set 
at  libertie,  that  we  awe  no  obedience  to  the  Law,  (for  that 

'  In  the  old  printed  copies,  "  the  doc-  -  In  the  MSS.  of  Knox,  "  maledictioun 

trines  the  preceptes  of  men."  of  the  Law." 


workes,  is 


108  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

befoir  we  have  plainelie  confessed)  ;  but  this  we  affirme,  that 
no  man  in  earth,  (Christ  Jesus  onlie  excepted,)  hath  gevin, 
geveth,  or  shall  geve  in  work,  that  obedience  to  the  Law 
which  the  Law  requyreth.  But  when  we  have  done  all 
thingis,  we  must  fall  doun  and  unfeanedlie  confess,  "  That  we 
Luc.  17.  ar  unprofitable  servandis."  And  thairfoir  whosoever  boast  thame 
i^  om  *™™  selves  of  the  merittis  of  thair  awin  workis,  or  putt  thair  trust 
in  the  workis  of  supererogatioun,  they  boast  thame  selfis  of 
that  whiche  is  not,  and  putt  thair  trust  in  damnable  idolatrie. 

Of  the  KiRK.i — Cap.  xvi. 
As  we  believe  in  one  God,  Father,  Sone,  and  Holy  Ghost, 
so  do  we  most  earnestlie  beleave^  that  from  the  begynning 
thair  hes  bein,  now  is,  and  to  the  end  of  the  warld  shalbe  a 
Churche  ;  that  is  to  say,  a  company  and  multitude  of  men 
chosin  of  God,  who  rychtlie  worschip  and  embrace  him,  by 
trew  fayth  in  Christ  Jesus,  who  is  the  onlie  Head  of  the  same 
Kirk,  whiche  also  is  the  body  and  spous  of  Christ  Jesus  ; 
whiche  Kirk  is  Catholik,  that  is,  universall,  becaus  it  conteanes 
the  Elect  of  all  aiges,  [of]  all  realmes,  nationis,  and  tounges,  be 
thai  of  the  Jewis,  or  be  thai  of  the  Gentiles,  who  have  com- 
munioun  and  societie  with  God  the  Father,  and  with  his  Sone 
Christ  Jesus,  throcht  the  sanctificatioun  of  his  Holy  Spreit ; 
and  thairfoir  it  is  called  [the]  communioun,  not  of  prophane  per- 
sonis  but  of  Sanctis,  who,  as  citizens  of  the  heavinlie  Jerusa- 
lem, have  the  fruitioun  of  the  most  inestimable  benefitis,  to 
witt,  of  ane  God,  ane  Lord  Jesus,  ane  faith,  and  of  ane  bap- 
tisme;  out  of  the^  whiche  Kirk  thair  is  neathcr  lyfe,  nor 
eternall  felicitie.  And  thairfoir  we  utterlie  abhorr  the  blas- 
pliemye  of  those  that  affirme,  that  men  quhilk  live  according  to 
equitie  and  justice,  shall  be  saved,  what  religioun  soever  they 
have  professed.     For  as  without  Christ  Jesus  thair  is  neather 

1  Here  and  elsewhere,  in  the  editions  '  In  the  old  printed  copies,   "  con- 

1561,   "  Church"  is   uniformly  substi-       stantlie  believe." 
tuted  in  place  of  '■  Kirk."  '  In  the  MSS.  of  Knox,  "  without  the." 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  lO'J 

lyfe  nor  salvatioun,  so  shall  tliair  nane  bo  participant  thairof 
but  sik  as  the  Father  has  gevin  unto  his  Sone  Christ  Jesus, 
and  those  [that]  in  tyme  come  to  him,  avow  his  doctrine,  and 
beleve  into  him,  (we  comprehend  the  children  with  the  faythfull 
parentis).  This  Kirk  is  invisible,  knowin  onlie  to  God,  who 
allone  knoweth  whome  he  hes  cliosin,  and  comprehendis 
alsweall  (as  said  is)  the  Elect  that  be  departed,  (commounlie 
called  the  Kirk  Triumphant),  as  those  that  yit  leve  and  feght 
against  syne  and  Sathan  as  shall  leve  hearefter. 

The  Immortalitie  of  the  Saullis. — Cap.  xvii. 
The  Elect  departed  are  in  peace  and  rest  from  thair  laubouris ;  Apoc.  u. 
not  that  thai  sleap  and  come  to  ane  certane  oblivioun  (as  some 
fantastick  lieadis^  do  affirme,)  but  that  thai  ar  delivered  from  Apoc.  7. 
all  fear,  all  torment,  and  all  tentatioun,  to  wliiche  we  and  all 
Godis  elect  ar  subject  in  this  lyfe  ;  and  thairfoir  do  bear  the 
name  of  the  Kirk  militant.     As  contrariewyse,  the  reprobat 
and  unfaythfull  departed,  have  anguishe,  torment,  and  paine, 
that  can  nott  be  expressed  ;  so  that  neather  ar  the  ane  nor 
the  other  in  sick  sleap  that  thai  feill  not  joy  or  torment,  as 
the   Parable  of  Christ  Jesus   in   the   saxtene  of  Luke,   his  luc.  le. 
wordis  to  the  theaf,  and  these  wordis  of  the  saullis  crying 
under  the  altar,  "  0  Lord,  thou  that  arte  rychteous  and  just,  Apoc.  c. 
how  longe  slialt  thow  not  revenge  our  blude  uj)oun  thame  that 
dwell  upoun  the  earth  I"    doeth  playnlie  testifie. 

Of  the  Notis  by  whiche  the  True  Kirk  is  discearned 
from    the    fals,    and   who    shalbe    judge    of    the 

DOCTRINE. — Cap.  XVIII. 

Because  that  Sathan  from  the  begyning  hes  lauboured  to 
deck  his  pestilent  Synagoge  with  the  title  of  the  Kirk  of  God, 
and  hes  inflambed  the  heartis  of  cruell  murtheraris  to  per- 
secute, truble,  and  molest  the  trew  Kirk  and  members  thairof, 

» In  the  old  printed  copies,  "  some  fantasticki.s." 


110  THE  HISTORY  OP  Book  III. 

Gcn.4.2].27.  as  Caiii  did  Abell ;  Ismaell,  Isaac ;  Esau,  Jacob;  and  the  whole 
Mat.  23.  preasthead  of  the  Jewis,  Jesus  Christ  him  self,  and  his  apostles 
Joan.  12.  after  him  ;  it  is  a  thing  most  requisite,  that  the  trew  Kirk  be 
Act.  5.  discernit  frome  the  filthy  synagoge,  be  cleare  and  perfite  nottis, 
least  we  being  deceaved,  resave  and  embrace  to  our  awin  con- 
demnatioun  the  ane  for  the  other.  The  nottis,  signes,  and 
assured  tokenis  whairby  the  immaculat  spouse  of  Christ  Jesus 
is  knawin  from  that  horrible  harlote  the  Kirk  malignant,  we 
affirme  ar  neyther  antiquitie,  title  usurped,  lineall  discente, 
place  appointed,  nor  multitude  of  men  approving  ane  errour ; 
for  Cain  in  aige  and  title  was  preferred  to  Abell  and  Seth. 
Jerusalem  had  prerogative  above  all  places  of  the  earth,  whair 
also  war  the  preastis  lineally  descended  from  Aaron ;  and 
greattare  multitude  l  followed  the  Scribes,  Pharaseis,  and 
Preastis,  then  unfeanedlie  beleaved  and  approved  Christ  Jesus 
and  his  doctrin ;  and  yit  (as  we  suppoise)  na  man  of  sound 
judgment  2  will  grant  that  any  of  the  foirnamed  war  the  Kirk 
of  God.  The  Notis,  thairfoir,  of  the  trew  Kirk  of  God  we 
beleve,  confesse,  and  avow  to  be,  first.  The  trew  preaching  of 
the  word  of  God ;  into  the  wliiche  God  lies  reveilled  him  self  to 
us,  as  the  vn-ittingis  of  the  Prophettis  and  Apostles  do  de- 
clair.  Secoundlie,  The  rycht  administratioun  of  the  sacra- 
mentis  of  Christ  Jesus,  whiche  mun  be  annexed  to  the  worde 
and  promisse  of  God,  to  seall  and  confirme  the  same  in  our 
hartis.  Last[ly],  Ecclesiasticall  discipline  uprychtlie  ministred, 
as  Godis  word  prescribed,  whairby  vice  is  repressed,  and  vertew 
nurished.  Whairsoever  then  these  former  nottis  ar  sene,  and 
of  any  tyme  continew  (be  the  number  never  so  few  above  twa 
or  thre)  thair,  but  all  dowbt,  is  the  trew  Kirk  of  Christ,  who 
according  to  his  promeise  is  in  the  myddis  of  tliame:  not 
that  universal  (of  whiche  we  have  befoir  spokin)  but  particu- 
lare ;  sick  as  was  in  Corintlius,  Galatia,  Ephesus,  and  utheris 

1  In  the  old  printed  copies,  "  greater  ^  ju  ^jje   MSS.  of  Knox,    "  of  liolle 

uumber."  judgment." 


Notes   of  the 
Trew  Church. 


loGO.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  Ill 

places  in  whiclie  the  ministerie  was  planted  by  Paule,  and  Act.  ic.  is. 
war  of  him  self  named  the  Kirkis  of  God.     And  sick  kirkis,  ^  ^°'-  ^• 

'  Act.  20. 

we,  the  Inhabitants  of  the  Realme  of  Scotland,  professouris  of 
Christ  Jesus,  confesse  us  to  have  in  our  cities,  townis,  and 
places  reformed ;  for  the  doctrine  taught  in  our  kirkis  is  con- 
teaned  in  the  writtin  word  of  God,  to  witt,  in  the  buikis  of  the 
Auld  and  New  Testamentis.  In  these  buikis  we  meane,  Avhiche 
of  the  ancient  have  bene  reputed  canonicall,  in  the  whiche 
we  affirme  that  all  thingis  necessarie  to  be  beleaved  for  the 
salvatioun  of  mankynd,  is  sufficientlie  expressed  ;  the  inter- 
pretatioun  whairof,  we  confess,  neather  apperteaneth  to  privat 
nor  publict  persone,  neather  yit  to  any  kirk  for  any  pre- 
heminence  or  prerogative,  personall  or  locall,  whiche  one  hes 
above  another;  butt  apperteaneth  to  the  Spreit  of  God,  by 
the  whiche  also  the  Scripture  was  wi'ittin.     When  contraversie  To  whom  the 

interpretation 

then  happinneth  for  the  rvcht  understandins:  of  any  place  "^  t^«  ''<='■'?- 

i  J.  >/  o  J     r  t^re  apper- 

or  sentence  of  Scripture,  or  for  the  reformatioun  of  any  abuse  '''^■°®- 
Avithin  the  Kirk  of  God,  we  audit  not  sa  mekle  to  look  what 
men  befoir  us  have  said  or  done,  as  unto  that  whiche  the  Holy 
Ghost  uniformelie  speakis  within  the  body  of  the  Scriptures, 
and  unto  that  whiche  Christ  Jesus  him  self  did,  and  com- 
manded to  be  done.  For  this  is  a  thing  universallie  granted, 
that  the  Spreit  of  God,  which  is  the  Spirit  of  unitie,  is  in  no- 
thing contrarious  unto  himself.  Yf  then  the  intei'pretatioun,  i  cor.  ii. 
determinatioun,  or  sentence  of  any  doctour,  kirk,  or  counsall, 
repugne  to  the  plane  word  of  God  writtin  in  any  other  place 
of  [the]  Scripture,  it  is  a  thing  most  certane,  that  thairis  is 
nocht  the  trew  understanding  and  meanyng  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
supposing  that  Counsallis,!  Realmes,  and  Nations  have  ajD- 
proved  and  receaved  the  same  :  For  we  dar  nott  receave  and 
admitt  any  interpretatioun  whiche  directlie  repugneth  to  any 
principall  point  of  our  fayth,  [or]  to  any  other  plane  text  of 
Scripture,  or  yitt  unto  the  rewll  of  charitie. 

^  In  the  old  printed  copie.s,  "altliongh  that  Counselli.s." 


112  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

The  Authoritie  of  the  Scripturis. — Cap.  xix. 

1  Tim.  3.  As  we  beleve  and  confesse  the  Scriptures  of  God  sufficient 

to  instruct  and  maik  tlie  man  of  God  perfect,  so  do  we  affirme 
and  avow  tlie  autlioritie  of  the  same  to  be  of  God,  and  neather 
to  depend  on  men  nor  angellis.  We  affirme  thairfoir  that  sick 
as  alledge  the  Scripture  to  have  na  [uther]  authoritie,  but  that 
whiche  is  receaved  from  the  Kirk,  to  be  blasphemous  against 

Joan.  10.  God,  and  injuriouse  to  the  trew  Kirk,  whiche  alwayis  heareth 
and  obeyeth  the  voice  of  hir  awin  Spouse  and  pastour,  but 
taketh  nott  upoun  her  to  be  maistres  over  the  same. 

Of  Generall  Counsallis,  of  thair  Power,  Authoritie, 
AND  Causes  of  thair  Conventioun. — Cap.  xx. 

As  we  do  nott  raschelie  dampne  that  whiche  godlie  men,  as- 
sembled togidder  in  Generall  Counsallis,  lauchfullie  gathered, 
have  approved!  unto  us  ;  so  without  just  examinatioun  darwe 
not  resave  whatsoever  is  obtrused  unto  men,  under  the  name 
of  Generall  Counsallis  :  for  plane  it  is,  that  as  they  war  men, 
so  have  some  of  thame  manifestlie  erred,  and  that  in  materis 
How  far       of  great  weght  and  importance.     So  far  then  as  the  Counsall 

theCounseUs  ,       ,         ■,  .  •  ,.  ,  . 

are  to  be       provoth  the  determinatiouu  and  commandiment  that  it  geveth 

aUowed.  ■••  ® 

by  the  plane  word  of  God,  so  far  do  we  reverence  and  em- 
wherein  they  ^raco  tlio  samo.     But  vf  mcu,  under  the  name  of  a  Counsall 

are  to  be  re-  . 

jected.  pretend  to  forge  unto  us  new  articles  of  our  faith,  or  to  maik 

constitutionis  repugnyng  to  the  word  of  God,  then  utterlie  we 
mone  refuise  the  same,  as  the  doctrin  of  devillis  which  drawis 
1  Tim.  4.  ^^j,  saullis  from  the  voice  of  our  onlie  God,  to  follow  the  doc- 
were  as-*^  trines  and  constitutionis  of  men.  The  cans,  then,  why  [that] 
Generall  Counsallis  convened,  was  neather  to  mak  any  perpe- 
tuall  law  (whiche  God  befoir  had  nott  maid,)  neather  yitt  to 
forge  new  articles  of  our  beleve,  neather  to  give  the  word  of 
God  authoritie,  mekle  less  to  make  that  to  be  his  worde,  or  yitt 
the  trew  interpretatioun  of  the  same,  which  was  not  befoir  by 

1  In  the  old  printer!  copies,  "  liave  proponit." 


Eembled. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  S(X)TLAND.  113 

his  holy  will  expreassed  in  his  worde.     But  the  caus  of  Coun-  why  counsels 

were  called. 

sallis,  (we  meane  of  sick  as  mcrite  the  name  of  Counsallis,) 

was  partlic  for  confutatioun  of  hcresyes,  and  for  geving  publict 

confessioun  of  thair  faith  to  the  postcritie  following- ;  wliiche 

baitli  they  did  by  the  authoritie  of  Goddis  writtin  woj'de,  and 

nott  by  any  opinioun  or  prerogative  that  they  could  nott  err,  be 

reassoun  of  thair  Grenerall  assemblie :    And  this  we  judge  to 

have  bene  the  cheaf  caus  of  Grenerall  Counsallis.    The  other  was 

for  good  policie  and  ordour  to  be  constitut  and  observed  in  the 

Kirk,  in  whiclie  (as  in  the  house  of  Grod)  it  becumis  all  thingis 

to  be  done  decentlie  and  into  ordour.     Not  that  we  think  that 

ane  policie,  and  ane  ordour  in  Ceremonies  can  be  appointit  for 

all  aigis,  tymes,  and  plaicis  ;    for  as  ceremonies  (sick  as  men 

hes  devised)  ar  but  temporall,  so  may  and  aucht  they  to  be  ceremonies 

changed,  when  they  rather  foster  superstitioun,  then  that  they  the°fo'^"*'^° 

edifie  the  Kirk  using  the  same.  perkidon. 

Off  the  Sacramentis. — Cap.  xxi. 

As  the  Fathcris  under  the  Law,  besydis  the  veritie  of  the 
sacrifices,  had  two  cheaf  Sacramentis,  to  witt,  Circumcisioun 
and  the  Passover,  the  despysaris  and  contemnaris  whairof  war 
not  reputed  for  Grodis  peo^Dle  ;  so  [do]  we  acknawledge  and  con- 
fesse  that  we  now,  in  the  tyme  of  the  Evangell,  have  twol  Sa- 
cramentis onlie,  institutit  be  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  commanded 
to  be  used  of  all  those  that  will  be  reputed  members  of  his 
body,  to  witt,  Baptisme  and  the  Supper,  or  Table  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  called  The  Communioun  of  his  body  and  bloode.  And 
these  sacramentis  (alsweill  of  the  Auld  as  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment) war  institute  of  God,  not  onlie  to  maik  ane  visible  dif- 
ference betwixt  his  peoj)le,  and  those  that  war  without  his 
league  ;  but  also  to  exercise  the  faith  of  his  children  ;  and  by  The  use  of  sa- 
participatioun  of  the  same  sacramentis,  to  seall  in  thair  heartis 
the  assurance  of  his  promeis,  and  of  that  most  blessed  con- 

^  &  2  In  the  old  printed  copies,  "  two  chief;"  and  "  now  instituted."' 
VOL.  II.  H 


114 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  III. 


junctioiin,  iinioun,  and  societie,  wliiclie  the  Elect  have  with 
thair  head,  Christ  Jesus.  And  thus  we  utterlie  dampne  the 
vanitie  of  those  that  affirme  Sacramentis  to  be  nothing  else 
but  naked  and  bair  signes.  No,  we  assuredlie  beleve,  that 
by  Baptj^me  we  ar  ingrafted  in  Christ  Jesus  to  be  maid  par- 
takaris  of  his  justice,  by  the  Avhiche  our  synes  are  covered  and 
remitted ;  and  also,  that  in  the  Supper,  rychtlie  used,  Christ 
Jesus  is  so  joyned  with  us,  that  he  becumis  the  verray 
nurishement  and  foode  of  our  saullis.  Not  that  we  ymagine 
any  transsubstantiatioun  of  bread  into  Christis  natural!  body, 
and  of  vryne  in  his  naturall  bloode,  (as  the  Papistis  have  per- 
niciouslie  taught  and  dampnablie  beleved ;)  but  this  union  and 
communioun  whiche  we  have  with  the  body  and  bloode  of  Christ 
Jesus  in  the  lycht  use  of  the  sacraments,  is  wrocht  by  opera- 
tioun  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  who  by  trew  faith  caryes  us  above  all 
thingis  that  ar  visible,  carnall,  and  earthlie,  and  maikis  us  to 
feid  upoun  the  body  and  bloode  of  Christ  Jesus,  whiche  was  ones 
brokin  and  schedd  for  us,  whiche  now  is  in  the  heavin,  and  ap- 
peareth  in  the  presence  of  his  Father  for  us.  And  yit,  notwith- 
standing the  far  distance  of  place,  whiche  is  betwix  his  bodye 
now  glorifeid  in  the  heavin,  and  us  now  mortall  in  this  earth, 
yit  Ave  most  assuredlie  beleve,  that  the  bread  which  we  break  is 
the  communioun  of  Christis  body,  and  the  cupp  Avhich  we  bliss, 
is  the  communion  .of  his  bloode.  So  that  we  confesse,  and  un- 
dowttedlye  beleve,  that  the  faithfull,  in  the  rycht  use  of  the 
Lordis  Table,  so  do  eatt  the  body,  and  drynk  the  bloode  of  the 
Lord  Jesus,  that  he  remaneth  in  tliame  and  thai  in  him :  yea, 
that  thai  ar  so  maid  flesche  of  his  flesche,  and  bone  of  his 
bones,  that  as  the  Eternall  Godheid  hath  gevin  to  the  flesche 
of  Christ  Jesus  (whiche  of  the  awin  conditioun  and  nature 
was  mortall  and  corruptible)  lyfe  and  immortalitie,  so  doeth 
Christ  Jesus  his  flesclie  and  bloode  eatten  and  drunken  by  us, 
give  to  us  the  same  prerogatives  :  Whiche  albeit  we  confesse, 
are  neathcr  gcvin  unto  us  at  that  onlie  tymc,  neathcr  yit  by 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  115 

the  propir  power  and  vertew  of  the  Sacmmentis  oulie  ;  yit  we 
affirme,  that  the  faithfull  in  the  lycht  use  of  the  Lordis  Table 
hes  sick  conjunctioun  with  Christ  Jesus,  as  the  naturall  man 
can  not  comprehend :  yea,  and  farther  we  affirme,  that  albeit 
the  faithfull  oppressed  be  negligence,  and  manlie  infirmitie, 
doeth  not  profFcitt  so  mekill  as  tliei  wold  att  the  verray  in- 
stant actioun  of  the  Sujjper,  yit  shall  it  after  bring  furth  frute, 
as  livelie  seid  sawin  in  good  ground  ;  for  the  Holy  Spreit,  whiche 
can  never  be  devided  frome  the  lycht  institutioun  of  tlie  Lord 
Jesus,  will  not  frustrat  the  faythfull  of  the  frute  of  that  mis- 
ticall  actioun.  But  all  this,  we  say,  cumis  by  trew  fayth, 
whiche  apprehendeth  Christ  Jesus,  who  onlie  maikis  his  Sac- 
ramentis  effectuall  unto  us ;  and,  thairfoir,  whosoever  sclan- 
dereth  us,  as  that  we  affirmed  or  beloved  Sacramentis  to  be 
onlie  naiked  and  bair  signes,  do  injurie  unto  us,  and  speak 
against  a  manifest  treuth.  But  this  liberallie  and  francklie 
we  most  confess,  that  we  maik  ane  distinctioun  betwix  Christ 
Jesus,  in  his  naturall  substance,^  and  betwix  the  elementis  in 
the  Sacramentall  signes  ;  so  that  we  will  neather  wirschip  the 
signes  in  place  of  that  which  is  signifeid  by  thame ;  neather 
yit  do  we  dispyse  and  interjsrete  thame  as  unprofitable  and 
vane  ;  but  do  use  thame  with  all  reverence,  examyning  our 
selfis  diligentlie  befoir  that  so  we  do,  becaus  we  ar  assured 
by  the  mouth  of  the  Apostle,  "  That  sick  as  eat  of  that  bread, 
and  diynk  of  that  cupp,  unworthelie,  ar  guyltie  of  the  body 
and  bloode^  of  the  Lord  Jesus." 

Off  the  Rycht  Administr.a.tioun  of  the  Sacramentis. — 
Cap.  XXII. 

That  Sacramentis  be  rychtlie  ministred,  we  judge  twa 
thingis  requisit :  the  one.  That  tliei  be  ministred  be  lauchfull 
ministeris,  whome  we  affirme  to  be  onlie  thei  that  ar  appointed 

'  In  the  old  printed  copies,  "  in  his  ^  In  the  editions  1561,  "  and  of  the 

etcrnall  substance."  blood  of  Christ  Jesus." 


116  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III, 

to  the  preaching  of  the  wordo,  or  into  whose  mouthis  God  hes 
jmtt  some  scnnoun  of  cxhortatioun,  thei  being  men  lauch- 
fullie  chosin  thairto  by  some  Kirk.     The  other,   That  thei  be 
ministred  in  sic  dementis,  and  in  sic  sorte  as  God  hath  ap- 
pointed.    Ellis  we  affirme,  that  thei  cease  to  be  lycht  Sacra- 
may'not  par-  nicntis  of  ChHst  Josus.     And,  thairfoir,  it  is,  that  we  flye  the 
thTpLpistsin  societie  with  the  Papisticall  Kirk,  in  participatioun  of  thair 
nients. '        Sacramcntis  ;  first,  becaus  thair  ministeris  ar  no  ministeris  of 
nit  Baptis^^  Christ  Jcsiis  ;  yea,  (Avhiche  is  more  horrible)  thei  suffer  wemen, 
whome  the  Holy  Ghost  will  not  suffer  to  teache  in  the  con- 
gregatioun,  to  Baptise.     And,  secoundlie,  Becaus  thei  have  so 
adulterat,  both  the  one  sacrament  and  the  other,  with  thair 
awin  inventionis,  that  na  pairte  of  Christis  actioun  abydeth  in 
the  originall  puritie  ;    for  oyle,  salt,  spattle,  1    and  siclyk  in 
baptisme,    are    but   menis    inventionis ;    adoratioun,   venera- 
tioun,  bearing  throcht  streittis  and  townes,  and  keaping  of 
bread    in    boxes    or   buistis,    are    prophanatioun   of   Christis 
Sacramcntis,   and   no  use  of  the    same :     For   Christ   Jesus 
said,  "  Tak,  eat,  &c. ;   Do  ye  this  in  remembrance  of  me."     By 
which  wordis  and  charge  he  sanctifeid  bread  and  wyne  to  be 
the  sacrament  of  his  body2  and  blude;  to  the  end,  that  the  one 
should  be  eatten,  and  that  all  should  drink  of  the  other ;  and 
not  that  thei  should  be  kcapt  to  be  wirschiped  and  honoured 
as  God,  as  the  blynd  Papistis  have  done  heirtofoir,  who  also 
Jo'mmirsacri-  havc  conimittcd  sacriledge,  stealling  frome  the  people  the  one 
^  ^^'  parte  of  the  Sacrament,  to  witt,  the  blissed  cupp.     Moreover, 

that  the  Sacramcntis  be  rychtlie  used,  it  is  requyred,  that  the 
end  and  cans  why  the  Sacramcntis  war  institut,  be  understand 
and  observed,  alsweall  of  the  minister  as  of  the  receaveris ;  for 
yf  the  opinioun  be  changed  in  the  receavare,  the  rycht  use  ceass- 
eth ;  whiche  is  most  evident  by  the  rejectioun  of  the  sacrifices, 
(as   also   yf  the   teachar   teache^   fals   doctrin,)  whiche  war 

'  In  some  copies,  "  spittle."  '  In  the  old  printed  copies,  "  gif  the 

-  In  some  copies,  "  liis  holy  body."  teachei-  plainly  teach,  &c.  befoir  God." 


1,500.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  117 

odiousc  and  abominable  unto  God  (albeit  thel  war  his  awin 
ordinances,)  becaus  tbat  wicked  men  use  thame  to  ane  other  ^"^''^^^11'^ 
end  than  God  hath  ordeaned.  The  same  affirme  we  of  the  '^^p^^'^' 
sacramentis  in  the  Papisticall  Kirk,  in  whiclie  we  affirme  the  worthei""' 
haill  actioun  of  the  Lord  Jesus  to  be  adulterat,  alsweill  in  the 
externall  forme,  as  in  the  end  and  opinioun.  What  Christ 
Jesus  did,  and  commanded  to  be  done,  is  evident  by  the  three 
Evangelistis  [quho  sj)eak  of  the  Sacrament,^]  and  by  Sanct 
Paule :  What  the  preast  does  at  his  altare  we  neid  not  to  re- 
hearse. The  end  and  cans  of  Christis  institutioun,  and  why  the 
self  same  should  be  used,  is  expressed  in  these  wordis, — "  Do 
this  in  remembrance  of  me.  As  oft  as  ye  shall  eatt  off  this 
bread  and  drynk  of  this  cupp,  ye  shall  schaw  furth,  (that  is, 
extoll,  preache,  and  magnifie,^)  the  Lordis  death  till  he  come." 
But  to  what  end,  and  in  what  opinioun  the  preastis  say  thair 
masses,  lett  the  wordis  of  the  same,  thair  awin  doctouris  and 
writtingis  Avitness,  to  witt,  that  thei,  as  mediatouris  betwix 
Christ  and  his  Kirk,  do  offerr  unto  God  the  Father  ane  sacri- 
fice propitiatorie  for  the  synnes  of  the  quick  and  the  dead. 
Which  doctrine,  as  blasphemous  to  Christ  Jesus,  and  macking 
derogatioun  to  the  sufhciencie  of  his  onlie  sacrifice,  ones  offered 
for  purgatioun  of  all  those  that  shalbe  sanctified,  we  utterlie 
abhorr,  detest,  and  renunce. 

To  WHOME  Sacramentis  apperteane. — Cap.  xxiii. 
We  Confesse  and  acknawledge  that  Baptisme  apperteancth 
alsweall  to  the  infantis  of  the  faithfull,  as  to  those  that  be  of 
age  and  discretioun.  And  so  we  dampne  the  eiTOur  of  [the] 
Anabaptistes,  who  deny  baptisme  to  apperteane  to  children, 
befoir  that  thei  have  faith  and  understanding.  But  the  Sup- 
per of  the  Lord,  we  confesse  to  apperteane  onlie  to  sick  as^  have 

'  Supplied  from  MS.  G ;  but  the  old  -  In  the  old  printed  copies,  "  preach, 

printed  copies  also  read,  "  by  the  Evan-  magnifie,  and  prayse." 

gclistis,  and  by  Sanct  Paule;"  omitting  *  In  the  old  printed  copies,   "to  sic 

the  ^vord  "  three."  onlie  as  be  of  the  houshald." 


11 «  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

bene  of  the  housliold  of  faitli,  [and]  can  tiy  and  examyn 
thame  selfis,  asweill  in  tliair  faith,  as  in  thair  dewtie  tovvardis 
thair  nychtbouris.  Such  as  eat  [and  drink]  at  that  holy  table 
Avithout  fayth,  or  being  at  dissentioun  and  divisioun  with  thare 
brethren,  do  eat  unworthelye :  and  thairfoir  it  is,  that  in  our 
Kirkis  our  Ministeris  tackis  publict  and  particulare  examina- 
tioun  of  the  knowledge  and  conversatioun  of  suche  as  are  to 
be  admitted  to  the  table  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 

Of  the  -Civile  Magistrat. — Cap.  xxiv. 
We  Confesse  and  acknawledge  imj^yres,  kyngdomes,  domi- 
niounis,  and  cities  to  be  distincted  and  ordaned  by  Grod :  the 
powers  and  authorities  in  the  same  (be  it  of  Emperouris  in 
thair  impyris,  of  Kingis  in  thair  realmes,  Dukis  and  Princes 
in  thair  dominiounis,  or  of  otheris  Magistratis  in  free  cities,) 
to  be  Godis  holy  ordinance,  ordeaned  for  manifestatioun  of  his 
awin  glorie,  and  for  the  singulare  proffeit  and  commodite  of  man- 
kynd.  So  that  whosoever  goes  about  to  tack  away  or  to  con- 
found the  haill  state  of  civile  policies,  now  lang  establisched, 
we  affinne  the  same  men  not  onlie  to  be  ennemyes  to  man- 
kynd,  but  also  wickedlie  to  feght  against  Godis  expressed  will. 
We  farther  Confesse  and  acknawledge,  that  sic  personis  as  are 
placed  in  authoritie  are  to  be  loved,  honoured,  feared,  and  hol- 
din  in  most  reverent  estimatioun ;  becaus  [that]  thei  are  the 
lieutennentis  of  God,  in  whose  sessioun  God  him  self  doetli  sitt 
and  judge,  (yea  evin  the  Judges  and  Princes  thame  selfis,)  to 
whome  by  God  is  gevin  the  sweard,  to  the  praise  and  defence 
of  good  men,  and  to  revenge  and  puniss  all  open  malefactouris. 
Moreover,  to  Kingis,  Princes,  Reullaris,  and  Magistratis,  we 
affirme  that  cheiflie  and  maist  principallie  the  reformatioun  ^ 
and  purgatioun  of  the  Religioun  appertcanes ;  so  that  not 
onlie  thei  are  appointed  for  civile  policey,  bot  also  for  mante- 
nance  of  the  trew  Religioun,  and  for  suppressing  of  idolatrie 
and  superstitioun   whatsomevei-,   as  in  David,  Josaphat,  Ezc- 

^  In  tlic  olrl  prjntcil  copies,  "  conscrvntioun." 


15(;o.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  110 

chias,  Josias,  and  otlieris,  licychtlic  commended  for  tliair  zeall 
iii  that  caise,  may  be  espyed.  And  tliairfoir  we  confesse  and 
avow,  that  sick  as  resist  the  Supreme  power,  (doing  that 
thing-  which  apperteanis  to  his  charge,)  do  resist  Goddis  ordi- 
nance, and  thairfoir  can  not  be  guyltless.  And  farther,  we 
affirme,  that  whosoever  deny  unto  thame  thair  aid,  counsall, 
and  confovte,  Avhile  the  Princes  and  ReuUaris  vigilantlic 
travaill  in  the  executing^  of  thair  office,  that  the  same  men 
deny  thair  help,  supporte,  and  counsall  to  God,  who  by  the 
presence  of  his  lieutennent  craveth  it  of  thame. 

The  Gtftis  frelie  gevin  to  the  Kirk. — Cap.  xxv. 
Albeit  that  the  word  of  God  trewlie  preached,  [and]  the  Sa- 
cramentis  rychtlie  mii\istred,  and  discipline  executed  accord- 
ing to  the  Avord  of  God,  be  the  certane  and  infallible  signes  of 
the  trew  Kirk;  yit  do  we  nott  so  meane,  that  everie^  particulare 
persone  joyned  with  sick  ane  cumpany,  be  ane  elect  member 
of  Clirist  Jesus.  For  we  acknawledge  and  confesse,  that  dar- 
nell,  cokle,  and  chaff,  may  be  sawin,  grow,  and  in  great  abun- 
dance lye  in  the  myddis  of  the  wheat ;  that  is,  the  reprobat 
may  be  joyned  in  the  societie  of  the  elect,  and  may  exter- 
nallie  use  with  thame  the  benefites  of  the  word  and  sacra- 
mentis ;  but  sic  being  butt  temporall  professouris  in  mouth, 
but  not  in  heart,  do  fall  back  and  continew  not  to  the  end:  and 
thairfoir  haif  thei  no  fruit  of  Christis  death,  resurrectioun,  nor 
assentioun.  But  sick  as  with  heart  unfeanedlie  beleve,  and 
with  mouth  boldlie  confesse  the  Lord  Jesus,  (as  befoir  we 
have  said,)  shall  most  assuredly  resave  these  giftis  ;  first,  In 
this  lyfe,  remissoun  of  synnes,  and  that  by  faith  onlie  in 
Christis  blude,  insamekle,  that  albeit  syne  remane  and  con- 
tinuallie  abyd  in  these  our  mortall  bodyes,  yit  it  is  not  im- 
puted unto  us,  but  is  remitted  and  covered  with  Christis  jus- 
tice.    Secondlie,  In  the  generall  judgement  thair  shalbe  gevin 

^  In  the  oM  priutcil  copie?,  "  in  exc-  -  In  the  old  pi'inted  copief?,  "  the  trew 

cutionn.'  Kirk;  we  meane  not  that  every." 


120  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

to  evcric  man  and  woman  resurrectioiin  of  the  flesclie  ;  for 
the  sea  shall  gave  hir  dead,  the  earth  those  that  thairin  be 
inclosed  ;  yea,  the  Eternall,  our  God,  shall  stretche  out  his 
hand  upoun  the  dust,  and  the  dead  shall  aryse  incorruptible, 
and  that  in  the  substance  of  the  [self]  same  flesche  that  everie 
man  now  bearis,  to  resave,  according  to  thair  warkis,  giorie  or 
punishment :  for  sik  as  now  delyte  in  vanitie,  creueltye,  fil- 
thyncs,  superstitioun,  or  idolatrie,  slialbe  adjudged  to  the  fyre 
inextinguishable,  in  the  whiche  thei  shalbe  tormented  for  ever, 
alsweall  in  thair  awin  bodyes,  as  in  thair  saullis,  whiche  now 
thei  give  to  serve  the  devill  in  all  abominatioun.  Butt  sik  as 
continew  in  weall  doing  to  the  end,  boldlie  professing  the 
Lord  Jesus,  [we  constantly  beleve,  that  they  sail  receive  giorie, 
honour,  and  immortalitie,  to  reigne  for  ever  in  life  everlasting 
with  Christ  Jesus,^]  to  whose  glorifeid  body  all  his  Elect 
shalbe  [made]  lyke,  when  he  shall  appeir  agane  to  judgement, 
and  shall  render  up  the  kingdom e  to  God  his  Father,  who  then 
shalbe,  and  ever  shall  remane  all  in  all  thingis,  God  blessed  for 
evir :  To  whome,  with  the  Sone,  and  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  be 
all  honour  and  giorie,  now  and  ever.     Amen. 

Aryse,  0  Lord,  and  lett  thy  ennemyes  he  confounded :  Lett 
thame  fhje  frome  thy  ])resence  that  hait  thy  godlie  name  :  Give 
thy  Servandis  strenth  to  speak  thy  word  in  holdnes  ;  and  lett  all 
Nationis  atteane  to  ^  thy  trew  knowledge. 

Thir  Actis  and  Articles  war  red^  in  face  of  Parlia- 
ment,   AND    ratified    BE    THE    ThRE    EsTAITIS    OF    THIS 

Realme,  at  Edinburgh,  the  sevintene  day  of  Au- 
gust, ^  THE  year  of  God  J"'.  Y".  and  threscoir  yearis. 

1  This    clause,    omitted   by    Knox's  17th  July,  is  given  instead  of  the  17th 

amanuensis,  is  not  contained  in  Vautr.  August,  as  the  day  when  the  Coufes- 

edit.,  or  in  the  later  MSS.  sion  of  Faith   was  ratified  by  Parlia- 

«  In  the  old  printed  copies  of  the  Con-  ment.     The  same  mistake  occurs  in  the 

fession,  "  cleif,"  "  cleve,"  or  "  cleave  to."  rare  edition  of  the  Confession,  printed 

3  In  the  Acts  1560  and  1567,  "ar  red."  at  Edinburgh  by  John  Scott,  1561,  4to. 

*  In  the  MSS.  of  Knox,  and  in  Vau-  —See   Herbert's   Typographical  Anti- 

troUier's   edition,  the  erroneous  date,  quities,  vol.  iii.  p.  1817. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  121 


This  oure  Confessioun  was  publictlie  red,  first  In  audience 
of  the  Lordis  of  Articles,  and  after  in  audience  of  tlie  liaill 
Parliament ;  wliair  war  present,  not  onlie  suclie  as  professed 
Christ  Jesus,  but  also  a  great  number  of  the  adversaries  of  our 
religioun,  suche  as  the  foirnamed  Bishoppis,  and  some  others 
of  the  Tcmporall  Estate,  who  war  commanded  in  Goddis 
name  to  object,  yf  thei  could,  any  thing  against  that  doctrine. 
Some  of  our  Ministeris  war  present,  standing  upoun  tliair  feit, 
reddye  to  have  ansuered,  in  caise  any  wald  haif  defended  the 
Papistrie,  and  impugned  oure  affirmatives :  but  whill  that  no 
objectioun  was  maid,  thair  was  a  day  appointed  to  voting  in 
that  and  other  lieadis.  Oure  Confessioun  was  redd,  everie 
article  by  itself,  over  agane,  as  thei  war  wryttin  in  ordour, 
and  the  vottis  of  everie  man  war  requyred  accordinglie.  Of 
the  Temporall  Estate  onlie  voted  in  the  contrair,  the  Erie  of 
Atholl,!  the  Lordis  Somervaill  2  and  Berth wik  ;^  and  yit  for 
thair  disassenting  thei  produced  no  bettir  reassone,  but,  "  "We 
will  beleve  as  oure  fatheris  beleved."     The  Bischoppis,  (Papis- 

1  Johii  Stewart,  fourth  Earl  of  Atholl.  extract  from  Randolph  the  English  en- 
Hc  succeeded  his  father  in  1542.  He  voy's  letter  to  Sir  William  Cecil,  on  the 
enjoyed  the  favour  of  Queen  Mary,  and  19th  of  August,  in  which  he  says,  "  of 
promoted  her  marriage  with  Darnley.  the  Temporal  Lords,  the  Earl  of  Cassil- 
He  afterwards  joined  in  the  Associa-  lis,  and  the  Earl  of  Caithness,  said  Noe ; 
tion,  and  signed  the  warrant  for  the  the  rest  of  the  Lords,  with  common 
Queen's  custody  in  Loch-Leven.  In  consent,  allowed  the  same."  (Tytler's 
1577,  he  became  Lord  Chancellor  of  Hist,  of  Scotland,  vol.  vi.  p.  184,  note.) 
Scotland,  and  died  24th  April  1579.  Lord  Sommerville,  who  continued  his 

2  James  sixth  Lord  Somerville,  sue-  adherence  to  the  Queen's  party,  at  the 
cecded  to  the  title  in  1550.  From  Sad-  battle  of  Langsyde,  in  May  15G8,  was 
ler's  Correspondence  it  appears  he  was  severely  wounded ;  and  he  died  in  the 
in  England  in  1543,  as  a  hostage  for  his  month  of  December  following, 
father,  who  had  been  taken  prisoner  at  ^  John  fifth  Lord  Borthwick,  in  1543, 
Solway.  (State  Papers,  vol.  i.  pp.  182,  was  served  heir  of  his  father,  William 
348.)  His  name  occurs  as  signing  the  foui-th  Lord  Borthwick,  (his  elder  bro- 
Bond  in  April  1560  :  (see  page  63.)  It  thei-,  the  Master  of  Borthwick,  having 
may  be  questioned,  therefore,  whether  died  without  issue.)  He  assisted  the 
Knox  is  quite  correct  in  the  names  of  Queen  Regent  in  her  contests  with  the 
the  persons  whom  he  mentions  as  hav-  Lords  of  the  Congregation,  and  died  in 
ing  openly  opposed  the  Confession  in  1565. 

Parliament.     See  in  the  Appendix  an 


MERSCHEL 
MS  VOT 
PARI.IA 

JIENT. 


122  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

ticall,  we  meane,)  spack  nothing.  The  rest  of  the  haill  thre 
Estaittis,  by  thair  i^ublict  votes,  affirmed  the  doctrine ;  and 
many,  the  rather,  becaus  that  the  Bischoppis  wold  nor  durst 
say  notliing-  in  the  contrair ;  for  this  was  the  vote  of  the  Erie 
THE  EELE  ]\|(3rschell,  ^ — "  It  is  long  since  I  have  had  some  favour  unto  the 
^^  trewth,  and  since  that  I  have  had  a  suspitioun  of  the  Papis- 
ticall  religioun ;  but,  I  praise  my  God,  this  day  lies  fully  re- 
solved me  in  the  one  and  the  other.  For  seing  that  my  Lordis 
Bischoppis,  who  for  thair  learing  can,  and  for  the  zeall  that 
thei  should  bear  to  the  veritie,  wold,  as  I  suppose,  ganesay 
any  thing  that  directlie  repugnes  to  the  veritie  of  God ;  seing, 
I  say,  my  Lordis  Bischoppis  heir  present  speakis  notliing  in 
the  contrair  of-  the  doctrine  proponed,  I  can  nott  but  hold  it 
to  be  the  verie  trewth  of  God,  and  the  contrarie  to  be  de- 
ceavable  doctrine.  And  thairfoir,  so  far  as  in  me  lyeth,  I  ap- 
prove the  one  and  dampne  the  other :  And  do  farther  ask  of 
God,  that  not  onlie  I,  but  also  all  my  posteritie,  may  enjoy  the 
coinforte  of  the  doctrin  that  this  day  our  earis  have  hearde. 
And  yitt  more,  I  man  vote,  as  it  war  by  way  of  protestatioun, 
that  yf  any  persones  ecclesiasticall  shall  after  this  oppone 
thame  selfis  to  this  our  Confessioun,  that  thei  have  no  place 
nor  credite,  considdering  that  thei  having  long  advisement, 
and  full  knawledge  of  this  oure  Confessioun,  none  is  now  found 
in  lauchfull,  free,  and  quyete  Parliament  to  oi3pone  tliame 
selfis  to  that  whiclie  we  professe  :  And  thairfoir,  yf  any  of 
this  generatioun  pretend  to  do  it  after  this,  I  protest  he  be 
repute  rather  one  that  lovetli  his  awin  commoditie  and  the 
glorie  of  the  world,  than  the  trewth  of  God,  and  the  salva- 
tioun  of  nienis  saullis." 

After  the  voting  and  ratificatioun  of  this  oure  Confessioun, 

1  William  Keith,  fourth  Earl  ^Maris-  p.  251,  note  2.     He  died  7th  October 

chall,  who  succeeded  his  grandfather  in  1581,  liaving  spent  many  of  his  latter 

1580.   Ill  1541  he  Avas  appointed  Extra-  years  in  rctii-emcnt,    hi  liis    Castle   of 

ordiiiai-y  Lord  of  Session.     tSec  vol.  i.  Dinmottar. 


loGO.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  123 

by  tlie  liaill  body  of  the  Parliament,  tliair  war  also  pronunced 
two  Actis,  the  one  against  the  Masse  and  the  abuse  of  the 
Sacramentis,  and  the  other  against  the  Supreamacye  of  the 
Pape  ;l  the  tenouris  whairof  followis  : — 

The  Act  against  the  Messe.2 
In  the  Parliament  haldin  at  Edinburgh,  the  tent  of  Julij, 
the  year  of  God  J"  fyve  hundreth  threscoir  yearis,  the  said 
Parliament  being  continewed  to  the  first  of  August  nixt  thair- 
after  following,  with  continewatioun  of  dayis,  upoun  the 
twenty-four  day  of  the  said  moneth  of  August,  the  Thre 
Estaitis  then  being  present:  The  whiche  day,  forsamekle  as 
Almychtie  God  be  his  maist  trew  and  blessed  worde,  hes  de- 
claired  the  reverence  and  honour  quhilk  should  be  gevin  to 
him:  and,  be  his  Sone  Jesus  Christ,  has  declaired  the  trew  use 
of  the  Sacramentis,  willing  the  same  to  be  used  according  to 
his  wnll  and  worde :  Be  the  quhilk  it  is  notour  and  pei-fitlie 
knawin  that  the  Sacramentis  of  Baptisme  and  of  the  body  and 
bloode  of  Jesus  Christ,  hes  bene  in  all  tymes  bygane  corrupted 
be  the  Papisticall  Kirk,  and  be  thair  usurpit  ministeris ; 
and  presentlie,  notwithstanding  the  Reformatioun  allreaddy 
maide  according  to  Goddis  w^orde,  yit  nottheless  thair  is  some 
of  the  same  Papis  Kirk  that  stubburnelie  perseveris  in  thair 
wicked  idolatrie,  sayand  Messe,  and  Baptizand  conforme  to 
the  Papis  Kirk,  prophanand  thairthrow  the  Sacramentis  foir- 
saidis,   in  quyett   and   secreatt   places,  regardand  thairthrow 

^  The  Acts  referred  to  were  renewed  parate  form,  along  with  some  of  a  sub- 
in  the  Parliament,  held  by  the  Re-  sequent  date,  connected  with  Religion,- — 
gent  Earl  of  Murray,  in  December  1st,  In  an  edition  "  Imprintit  at  Edin- 
1567.  There  was  likewise  another  Act  burgli,  be  Johne  Ros,  Anno  Do.  1580," 
annulling  all  former  Acts  made  for  the  4to ;  and  2dly,  at  "  Edinburgh,  prcntit 
maintenance  of  Idolatry,  or  "  contrary  be  Robert  Waldegi-ave,"  1593,  4to. 
to  the  Confession  of  Fayth,  published  in  -  The  title  in  the  Acts  of  Pai-liamcnt 
this  Parliament."  It  was  only  by  .such  loGT,  is,  "  Anent  the  Messe  abolischit, 
ratifications  that  any  proceedings  of  the  and  puiiisching  of  all  that  liciris  or 
Parliament  in  1560  were  recorded.  Tlie  say  is  the  samin. — Cap.  v."' 
Acts  alluded  to  were  republished  in  a  se- 


124  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

nowther  God  nor  his  worde:  Thairfoir  it  is  statut  and  or- 
deaned  in  tins  present  Parliament,  that  na  maner  of  persone 
nor  ])ersonis,  in  ony  tyme  cuming,  administrat  ony  of  the  Sacra- 
mentis  foirsaidis  secreatlie,  or  ony  other  maner  of  way,  hut 
thei  that  ar  admitted  and  havand  power  to  that  effect ;  nor 
say  Messe,  nor  yit  hear  Messe,  nor  be  present  thairat,  under 
the  paine  of  eonfiscatioun  of  all  thair  goodis,  [movabill  and 
unmovabill,]  and  punisheing  of  thair  bodyis  at  the  discretioun 
of  the  Magistrattis,  within  whais  jurisdiction  sick  personis 
happynnis  to  be  apprehended,  for  the  first  fault ;  banisching 
of  the  Realme,  for  the  secound  fault ;  and  justifieing  to  the 
dead,  for  the  thrid  fait :  And  ordainis  all  Schireffis,  Stew- 
artis,  Bailleis,  and  thair  dejDuttis,  Pi'ovestis,  and  Bailleis  of 
Burrowis,  and  otheris  judges  whatsumever,  within  this  Realme, 
to  talk  diligent  suyt  and  inquisitioun  within  thair  boundis, 
whair  ony  sick  usurjjed  ministerie  is  used ;  Messe  saying,  or 
thei  that  beis  present  at  the  doing  thairof,  ratifeand  and  ap- 
prevand  the  samyn,  and  tack  and  ajjprehend  tliame,  to  the 
effect  that  the  panis  above  wrettin  may  be  execut  upon  tharne. 
Extractum  de  lihro  Parliamenti,  per  me,  etc. 

(Sic  suhscrihitur,) 

Jacobus  M'^Gill.i 

The  Act  for  Abolishing  the  Jurisdictioun 
OF  the  Pape.2 

In  the  Parliament  haldin  at  Edinburgh,  the  tent  day  of 
Julij,  the  year  of  God  J™  V  Ix  yearis,  and  thairefter  con- 
tinewit  to  the  first  day  of  August  nixt  thairefter  following, 
with  continewatioun  of  dayes,  upoun  the  xxiiij  of  the  said 
moneth  of  August  :^  The  thre  Estaitis,  then  being  present,  un- 
derstanding that  the  jurisdictioun  and  authoritie  of  the  Bis- 

^  Mr.  James  M'Gill,  Clerk  Register :  Pape,    and    bis    usurpit  autboritie. — 

see  a  subsequent  note.  Cap.  iii." 

2  The  title  in  the  Acts  of  Parliament  ^  y^e  ^otc  to  tbe  preceding  Act,  wbich 

1567,  is,  "  Aneut  the  abolissing  of  the  was  passed  on  tbe  same  day. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  12') 

chopo  of  Rome,  callit  the  Papc,  usit  [witlijin  this  Rcalme  in 
tjmes  bypast,  lies  [not  onlie  bene  contumelious  to  the  Eter- 
nall  God,  but  also]  veny  hurtsome  and  prejudiciall  to  our 
Soveranis  authoritie,  and  commoun  weall  of  this  Realme  : 
Thairfoir  lies  statut  and  ordainit,  that  the  Bischope  of  Rome, 
[callit  the  Paip,]  have  na  jurisdictioun  nor  authoritie  [withjin 
this  Realme  in  tymes  cuming  ;  and  that  nane  of  oure  said 
Soveranis  subjectis  sute  or  desyrc,  in  ony  tyme  heirefter,  tytill 
or  rycht,  be  the  said  Bischope  of  Rome  or  his  sect,  to  ony 
thing  Avithin  this  Realme,  under  the  panis  of  Barratrie ;  that 
is  to  say,  proscriptioun,  banishment,  and  never  to  bruik 
honour,  office,  nor  dignitie  within  this  Realme :  And  the  con- 
traveaneris  heirof,  to  be  callit  befoir  the  Justice  or  his  deput- 
tis,  or  befoir  the  Lordis  of  the  Sessioun,  and  punist  thairfoir 
according  to  the  lawis  of  this  Realme :  And  the  furnessaris 
of  thame  with  fynance  of  money,  and  purchessaris  of  thair 
tytle  of  rycht,  or  manteaneris  and  defenderis  of  thame,  sail 
incurr  the  samyn  panis:  And  that  na  Bischope,  nor  uther 
Prelatt  of  this  Realme,  use  ony  jurisdictioun  in  tymes  to 
cum,  be  the  said  Bischope  of  Rome's  authoritie,  under  the 
paine  foirsaid.  Extractum,  etc. 

These  and  other  thingis  ordourlie  done  in  lauchfull  and  free 
Parliament,^  we  direct  to  France,  to  our  Soveranis,  Sir  James 
Sandelandis,  Lord  of  Sanct  Johne,^  with  the  Actes  of  the  said 

1  As  already  mentioned,  no  record  of  copy  of  this  abstract  -will  be  given  in 

the  proceedings  of  this  Parliament  in  the  Appendix,  along  with  the  extract  of 

August  1560,  was  included  in  any  of  the  Randolph's  letter,  mentioned  at  page 

printed  collections  of  the  Public  Sta-  121,  note  2. 

tutes,  until  Mr.  Thomson  restored  the  ^  James  Sandilands,  second  son  of  Sir 

three  Acts,  (seepage  123,  notel,)  along  James  Sandilands  of  Calder,  (see  vol.  i. 

with  the  Confession  of  Faith,  in  his  ecli-  page  301,)  became  Preceptor  of  Torphi- 

tion  of  Acta   Pari.    Scot.,  vol.   ii.  pp.  chen,   (ib.  page  249,)  and  in  virtue  of 

525-535.     An  abstract  of  the  proceed-  this  office,  under  the  title  of  Lord  St. 

ings  was  fiu-nished  to  Bishop  Keith,  by  John,  he  had  a  seat  in  Parliament.     He 

Father  Innes,  from  Archbishop  Beaton's  was  employed  in  several  embassies ;  and 

MSS.  in  the   Scots  College,  Paris :  a  with  the  rest  of  his  family  he  joined 


126  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

Parliament,  that  by  tliame  tliei  mycht  be  ratifeid  according  to 
the  promeisse  of  thair  Heyghness  Commissionaris  maid  to  us, 
as  by  the  Contract  of  Peace  most  evidentlie  may  appear.  Bot 
how  the  said  Lord  of  Sanct  Johne  was  entreated  we  list  nott 
reherse ;  but  alwyis  no  Ratificatioun  brought  he  unto  us.^ 
But  that  we  litill  regarded,  or  yit  do  regarde ;  for  all  that  we 
did  was  rather  to  schaw  our  debtfull  obedience,  then  to  bege 
of  tliame  any  strenth  to  our  Religioun,  whiclie  from  God  hes 
full  powar,  and  neideth  nott  the  suffrage  of  man,  but  in  so 
far  as  man  hath  neid  to  beleve  it,  yf  that  ever  he  shall  have 
participatioun  of  the  lyfe  everlesting.  But  somewhat  most  we 
answer  to  suclie  as  since  hes  whisjiered,  that  it  was  but  a  pre- 
tended Parliament  and  a  privye  conventioun,  and  no  lauch- 
full  Parliament.  Thair  reassonis  ar,  the  King  and  Queue  war 
in  France ;  thair  was  neather  sceptour,  sweard,  nor  croune 
borne,  &c.,  and  some  principall  Lordis  war  absent.  We  an- 
swer, Tliat  we  rather  Avishe  the  Papistis  to  be  quyett,  nor  too 
curiouslie  to  travell  in  that  head ;  for  it  may  be,  that  whill 
thei  think  to  hurte  us,  thei  tack  the  Queue  and  hir  authoritie 
a  great  blawe,  and  yitt  amend  tliame  selffis  nothing.  For  in 
whose  defalt,  we  pray  yow,  Avas  the  Queue  absent  frome  this 
Realme  ?  We  think  thei  will  not  be  so  schameless  as  that 
thei  will  blame  the  Protestantis  thairof  Her  persone  was  ab- 
sent, and  [that]  to  no  small  greaff  of  our  hartis.  But  war  nott 
the  Estaitis  of  hir  Realme  assembled  in  hir  name  ?  Yea,  had 
thei  nott  hir  full  power  and  commissioun,  yea,  the  commissioun 

the  Reformers ;  this  mission  to  France  with  several  interesting  notices  regard- 
shews  the  estimation  in  which  he  was  ing  the  Templar  Lands  and  Dignities,  by 
held.  Having  obtained  a  grant  of  the  Mr.  Maidment,  in  the  Spottiswoode  Mis- 
possessions  of  the  Knights  Templars  cellany,  (vol.  ii.  pp.  17-32,)  Edinb.  1845, 
and  Hospitallers  in  Scotland  in  1563,  8vo.  James  Lord  Torphichen,  died 
the  same  were  erected  into  a  Free  Ba-  29th  November  1596,  leaving  no  issue, 
rony  or  a  Temporal  Lordship,  in  his  fa-  and  his  estates  and  title  devolved  on 
vour,  by  Queen  Mary,  as  Lord  Torphi-  his  grand-nephew,  James  Sandilands  of 
chen;  and  he  relinquished  his  former  Calder. 
title  of  Lord  St.  John.  See  the  copy  of  =  See  note  1,  page  131. 
the  Charter,  dated  24th  January  1563-4, 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  127 

and  commandinient  of  liir  licad  tlie  King  of  France,  to  con- 
vocat  that  Parliament,  and  to  do  all  tliingis  that  may  be  done 
in  laiichfull  Parliament,  evin  as  yf  oure  Soveranis  had  bene 
thair  in  proper  personis  ?  Yf  thci  will  limitat  the  poAver  of 
princes  to  the  places  onlie  Avliair  thair  bodelye  presence  is,  it 
will  be  thocht  strange  ;  for  so  not  onlie  shall  Kingis  be  com- 
pellit  to  content  thame  with  one  Realme,  but  also  with  one 
citie  ;  for  the  bodilie  presence  of  Kingis  can  no  more  be  in 
diverse  cities  in  one  instant,  then  that  thei  can  be  in  diverse 
Realmes.  Hitherto  we  haif  understand,  that  whairsoever  the 
Counsallouris  of  the  King,  with  his  power  and  commissioun,  ar 
assembled  to  do  any  thing  at  his  commandiment,  that  thair  is 
the  Kingis  sufficient  presence  and  authoritie,  whairsoever  his 
awin  body  be  leving  at  fredome  and  libertie.  Which,  yf  the 
Papistis  deny,  we  will  find  faultis  Avitli  thame,  and  with  the 
princes  whome  thei  have  abused,  that  more  will  annoy  thame 
then  anything  that  we  can  lose  by  the  insufficiencie  of  that 
Parliament ;  whiche  not  the  less  we  ar  bold  to  affimie,  to  have 
bene  more  lauchfull,  and  more  free  then  any  Parliament  that 
thei  ar  able  to  produce  this  hundreth  year  befoir  it,  or  yitt  any 
that  hath  ensewed  since  it  was  ;  for  in  it,  the  votes  of  men 
Avar  free,  and  gevin  of  conscience :  in  otheris  thei  war  bought 
or  gevin  at  the  devotioun  of  the  prince.  All  tliingis  in  it 
concluded  ar  able  to  abyde  the  tryall,  and  nott  to  be  consumed 
at  the  prufe  of  the  fyre.  Off  otheris  the  godly  may  justly 
call  in  dowbt  thingis  determined. 

To  the  SAveard  and  sceptour,  nor  yitt  to  the  absence  of  some 
Lordis,  Ave  ansuere  nothing ;  for  oure  adversaries  knoAv  Aveall 
yneuche  that  the  one  is  rather  a  pompe  and  gloriouse  A^ane 
ceremonye,  than  a  substantiall  point  of  necessitie,  requyred 
to  a  lauchfull  Parliament ;  and  the  absence  of  some  prejudges 
nott  the  poAveris  of  the  present,  providing  that  dcAv  adver- 
tisement be  made  unto  thame.  But  noAv  we  returne  to  oure 
Historve. 


128  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

The  Parliament  dissolved,  consultatioun  was  had,  how  the 
Kirk  myclit  be  establissod  in  a  good  and  godlie  Policy,  whiche 
by  the  Papistes  was  altogether  defaced.  Commissioun  and 
charge  was  gevin  to  Mr.  Johne  Winraml  Suppriour  of  Sanct- 
androis,  Maister  Johne  Spottiswoode,  Johne  Willok,  Mr.  John 
Donglas  Rectour  of  Sanctandrois,  Maister  Johne  Row,  and 
Johne  Knox,  to  draw  in  a  volume  the  Polecey  and  Disciplyn  of 
the  Kirk,  as  weill  as  thei  had  done  the  Doctrin ;  whiche  thei  did 
and  presented  to  the  Nobilitie,  who  did  peruse  it  many  dayis. 
Some  approved  it,  and  willed  the  samyn  have  bene  sett  furth 
be  a  law.  Otheris,  perceaving  tliair  carnall  libertie  and  world- 
lie  commoditie  somewhat  to  be  imj>aired  thairby  grudged,  in- 
somuche  that  the  name  of  the  Book  of  Discipline  became 
odious  unto  thame.  Everie  thing  that  repugned  to  thair  cor- 
rupt affectionis,  was  termed  in  thair  mockage,  "  devote  imagina- 
tionis."  The  cans  we  have  befoir  declaired  ;  some  war  licen- 
tious ;  some  had  greadelie  gripped  to  the  possessionis  of  the 
Kirk  ;  and  otheris  thought  that  thei  wald  nott  lack  thair 
parte  of  Christis  coat ;  yea,  and  that  befoir  that  ever  he  was 
hanged,  as  by  the  Preachearis  thei  war  oft  rebuked.  The 
cheaf  great  man  that  had  professed  Christ  Jesus,  and  refuissed 
to  subscrive  the  Book  of  Discipline,  was  the  Lord  Erskyn  ;^ 
and  no  wonder,  for  besydis  that  he  has  a  verray  Jesabell  to 
his  wyffe,  yf  the  poore,  the  schooles,  and  the  ministerie  of  the 
Kirk  had  thair  awin,  his  keching  wald  lack  two  parttis  and 
more,  of  that  whiche  he  injustlie  now  possesses.     Assuredlye 

1  In  Knox's  MS.  156G,  tlie  names  of  <as  one  of  the  compilers  of  the  Book  of 

Winram  and  Douglas  are  added  on  the  Discipline. 

margin,  apparently  in  his  own  hand ;  in  ^  This  charge  of  avarice  was  made 

the   text    being    simply   styled,    "  the  against  John  Lord  Erskine,  afterwards 

Suppriour," &c., and" ?Ae Rectour," &c.,  Earl  of  Mar,  and  Regent  of  Scotland; 

"  the,"  being  afterwards  deleted.     In  who  had  married  Annabella  Murray, 

Vautr.  edit.,  and  the  later  MSS.,  the  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  William  Murray 

names  are  introduced  into  the  text.  The  of  Tullibardine,  and  Catherine,  daughter 

transcriber   of  MS.   O,  has,  however,  of  Sir  Duncan  Campbell  of  Glenurchy. 
omitted  the  name  of  "  John  Willok," 


15R().  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  129 

some  of  us  have  woundered  how  men  that  professe  godlynes 
could  of  so  long  continewance  hear  the  threatnyngis  of  God 
against  theavis  and  against  thair  housses,  and  knowing  thame 
sclfis  guyltie  in  suclie  thingis,  as  war  openlie  rebucked,  and  that 
thei  never  had  remorse  of  conscience,  neather  yitt  intended 
to  restore  any  thingis  of  that,  whiche  long  thei  had  stollcn  and 
reft.  Thair  was  none  within  the  Realme  more  unmercyfull 
to  the  poore  Ministeris  then  war  thei  whiche  had  greatest 
rentis  of  the  Churches.  But  in  that  we  have  perceaved  the 
old  proverbe  to  be  trew,  "  Nothing  can  suffice  a  wreche ;"  and 
agane,  "  The  bellie  lies  none  earis."  Yitt  the  same  Book  of  Dis- 
cipline was  subscrived  by  a  great  parte  of  the  Nobilitie :  to 
witt,  the  Duckis  Grace,  the  Erie  of  Arrane,  the  Erles  Ergyle, 
Glencarne,  Merschall,  Menteth,  Mortoun,  Rothes,  Lord  James, 
now  Erie  of  Murray ;  Lordis  Y ester,  Boyd,  Vchiltree  ;  Maister 
of  Maxwell,!  Lord  Lyndesay  elder,  and  the  Maister  now  Lord  ;^ 
Baronis  Drumlanryg,  Lochinwar,  Garleise,  Bargany;  Mr.  Alex- 
ander Gordoun  Byschop  of  Galloway,  Alexander  Campbell 
Deane  of  Murray,  with  a  great  number  mo,  subscrived  and 
approved  the  said  Book  of  Discipline,^  in  the  Tolbuyth  of 
Edinburgh,  the  twenty-sevin  day  of  Januare,  the  year  of 
God  J""  Y"  threscoir  yearis,  by  thair  approbatioun,  in  these 
wordis  : — 

"  We  quhilk  have  subscrivit  thir  presentis,  havand  advised 
with  the  Articles  herein  specified,  and  as  is  above  mentionat, 
from  the  begyning  of  this   Book,   thinkis  the  samyn  goode, 

1  In  MS.  G,   "  Maister  of  Maxwell,  ^  Upon  comparing  this  list  of  names 

thairefter    Lord   Herise."      Sir   John  with  the  signatures    attached  to  the 

Maxwell,  in  virtue  of  his  marriage  with  Book  of  Discipline,  it  will  be  seen  that 

the  eldest  daughter  and  co-heu-ess  of  Knox's  amanuensis  has  unfortunately 

William  third  Lord  Herries,  assumed  copied  them  only  in  part,  as  the  names 

that  title  in  1567.  of  the  Earls  of  Marischal,  Monteith,  and 

*  John  fifth  Lord  Lindesay  of  Byres,  Morton,  and  a  few  others  here  specified, 

died  in  1563,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  are  not  given.     See  the  end  of  Book 

eldest  son  Patrick,  Master  of  Lindesny.  Third,  in  the  present  volume. 

VOL.  II.  I 


130  THE  HISTORY  OP  Book  III. 

and  conforme  to  Goddis  word  in  all  poyntis,  confonne  to  the 
notes  and  additionis  tliairto  eikked ;  and  promittis  to  sett  the 
same  fordwarte  at  the  uttermost  of  oure  poweris,  providing 
that  the  Bischoppis,  Abbottis,  Priouris,  and  utheris  Prelattis 
and  beneficed  men,  quhilkis  ellis  have  adjoyned  thameselfis  to 
us,  bruik  the  revenues  of  thair  benefices  during  thair  lyfe- 
tymes,  thei  susteanyng  and  upholding  the  Ministerie  and 
Ministeris,  as  is  lieirin  specified,  for  preaching  of  the  worde, 
and  ministring  of  the  sacramentis." 

What  be  the  contentis  of  the  haill  Book,  and  how  that  this 
promeise  was  illuded  frome  tyme  to  tyme,  we  will  after  hear. 

Schort  after  the  said  Parliament,  war  send  from  the  coun- 
sall  Ambassadouris  to  England,  the  Erles  Mortoun  and 
Glencarne,  togidder  with  William  Maitland  of  Lethingtoun 
youngare.  The  cheaf  poynt  of  thair  commissioun  was  ear- 
nestlie  to  crave  the  constant  assistance  of  the  Quenis  Majestie 
of  England,  against  all  forane  invasioun,  and  to  propone  the 
Earle  of  Arrane  (who  then  was  in  no  small  estimatioun  with  us) 
to  the  Queue  of  England  in  mariage.i 

That  same  tyme  was  the  Castell  of  Semj)ill^  besieged  and 
tane,  because  the  Lord  thairof  disobeyed  the  lawes  and  ordi- 

>  In  the  Acta  Pari.  Scot.,  vol.  ii.  p.  3d  of  January  1560-61,     (lb.  pp.  63, 

605,  "  The  Commission  of  the  Estates  to  281.) 

move  Queene  Elizabeth  of  England  to  "  "  My  Lord  Duke  and  the  Earl  of 
tak  the  Erie  of  Arran  to  hir  husband,"  Arrane,  liis  son,  on  the  24th  September 
in  August  1560,  is  inserted,  with  the  1560,  departit  to  cast  doun  my  Lord 
signatures,  from  the  original,  preserved  Sempills  hous  ;"  and  on  the  14th  Octo- 
among  the  Hamilton  archives.  This  ber,  "  the  Castell  of  Sempill  was  tane 
Commission  authorized  "  that  honor-  be  my  Lord  Duke."  (Diurnal  of  Occur- 
able  personis  be  sent  in  arabassat  fra  rents,  pp.  62,  63.) 
and  on  behalf  of  the  Estates."  The  Castle  Semple  is  in  the  parish  of  Loch- 
ambassadors,  the  Earls  of  Morton  and  vdnnoch,  and  county  of  Renfrew,  and 
Glencairn,  and  Maitland  of  Letliington,  stood  at  the  northern  end  of  the  lake 
set  out  from  Edinburgh,  accompanied  called  Lochwinnoch,  from  which  the 
with  fifty -four  horse,  on  the  11th  or  parish  derived  its  name :  it  was  demo^ 
12th  October  1660.  (Diurnal  of  Occur-  lished  in  the  year  1735,  and  replaced 
rents,  p.  62.)     They  returned  on   tlie  by  a  modern  mansion. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  131 

nances  of  the  Counsall  in  many  tliingis,  and  especiallie  in  that, 
that  he  wold  manteane  the  idolatrie  of  tlie  Messe,  and  also 
that  he  besett  the  way  to  tlie  Erie  of  AiTane,  with  a  great 
gathering,  as  he  was  ryding  witli  his  accustumed  companye. 

The  Papistis  Avar  proiide,  for  thei  looked  for  ane  new  armye 
from  France  at  the  nixt  spring,  and  thairof  was  thair  no  small 
appearance,  yf  Grod  had  not  otherwyse  provided.  For  France 
utterlie  refused  the  confirmatioun  of  the  peace  contracted  at 
Leyth,  wald  ratifie  no  parte  of  oiire  Parliament,  dismissed  the 
Lord  of  Sanct  Johne  without  any  resolute  ansure,!  begane  to 
gatlier  new  bandis  of  throte-cuttaris,  and  to  maik  great  prepa- 
ratioun  for  schlj^pes.  Thei  farther  send  befoir  tliame  certane 
practisaris  (amonges  whome  the  Lord  Seatoun,^  who  had  de- 
parted with  the  Frenche  out  of  Leyth  was  one)  to  rouse  up 
new  trubles  within  this  Realme.  And  all  this  came  partlie  of 
the  malice  of  the  house  of  Gwise,  who  had  avowed  to  revenge 
the  displeasour  of  thair  sister,  boyth  upoun  England  and  Scot- 
land, and  partlie  by  instigatioun  of  proud  Beatoun,  falsi ie 
called  Bischope  of  Glasgu,  of  Dury,  Abbot  of  Dumfermeling, 
Saulles  Seatoun,3  and  Mr.  John  Sinldar,  Dene  of  Restarick,* 

^  The  journey  of  Loi-d  St.  .John  seems  foirsaid."     (Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  pp. 

to  have  been  delayed  for  nearly  a  month  62,  280.)     The  same  authority  states, 

after    the    dissolution   of   Parliament.  that  on  the  19th  December,    "  James 

Robert  Melville,  who  was  to  have  ac-  Lord  Sanctjohne  come  furth  of  France 

companied  him,  addressed  a  letter  to  to  Edinbui'gh,  and  obtenit  little  or  na- 

the  Lady  Cecill,  on  the  21st  September,  thing  of  his  errands  expeid."  (ib.p.  281.) 
in  which  he  says,  "  quhilk  journay  is  ^  George  sixth  Lord  Seaton,  was  one 

aiterit,  and  thought  mare  expedient  that  of  the  Commissioners  sent  to  France  in 

my  Lord  of  Senjhone  pass  in  France,  1558,  at  the  marriage  of  Queen  Mary, 

quhaireldairenotgoat  thistyme.    See-  On  the  Queen's  return  to  Scotland,  he 

ing  my  Lord  is  desirous  to  offer  his  ser-  was  appointed  Master  of  the  Household, 

vice  unto  your  Ladyship,"  &c.  (Haynes's  and  remained  attached  to  her  in  all  her 

State  Papers,  p.  .362.) — "Upoun  the  xxiij  misfortunes. 

day  of  September,  the  zeir  of  God  1560  ^  So  in  the  different  MSS. ;  but  it  may 

zeii-is,  James  Lord  of  Sanctjohne  was  be  suggested,  whether  the  name  is  not 

directit  as  ambassadour,  and  departit  to  a  mistake  for  the  Abbot  of  Sauls  Seat, 

France,  throw  the  Realme  of  Ingland,  (i^ecfes  Animarnm,)  in  Wigtonshirc. 
to  obtane  confii-matioun  of  the  Quenis  '  In  MS.  G,  "  Restalrig." — Sinclair's 

grace  of  this  Realme,  and  hir  Spouse,  name  is  added  on  tlie  margin  of  MS. 

upoun  the  Actis  maid  of  the  Parliament  1566. 


132  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

with  suclie  utlieris  of  the  Frenche  factioun,!  who  had  openlie 
spokin,  that  thei  had  refused  all  portioun  of  Scotland,  oiiless 
that  it  war  under  the  government  of  a  Frenche  man.  "  Re- 
compense thame,  0  Lord,  as  thou  knowest  maist  expedient 
for  thy  awin  glorie,  and  for  the  perpetuall  schame  of  all  tra- 
touris  to  thair  commoun-wealth." 

The  certane  knowledge  of  all  these  thingis  came  to  our 
earis,  whairat  many  war  effrayed ;  for  diverse  suspected  that 
England  wald  nott  be  so  fordwarde  in  tymes  to  cum,  consider- 
ing that  thair  formar  expensses  war  so  great.  The  principal! 
conforte  remaned  with  the  preacheouris  ;  for  thei  assured  us  in 
Goddis  name,  that  God  should  performe  in  all  perfectioun 
that  worke  in  our  handis,  the  begyning  whairof  he  had  so 
mychtelie  mainteaned,  becaus  it  was  not  ouris,  but  his  awin ; 
and  thairfoir  exhoi-ted  us  that  we  should  constantlie  proceid 
to  reforme  all  abuses,  and  to  plant  the  ministerie  of  the 
Churche,  as  by  Goddis  word  we  mycht  justifie  it,  and  then 
committ  the  successe  of  all  to  our  God,  in  whose  power  the 
dispositioun  of  kingdomes  standis.  And  so  we  begane  to  do, 
for  troubles  appearing,  maid  us  give  ear  to  the  admonitionis  of 
Goddis  servandis.  And  whill  that  we  had  skarslie  begune 
agane  to  implore  the  helpe  of  our  God,  and  to  schaw  some 
signes  of  our  obedience  unto  his  messingeris,  and  holy  worde, 
lo  !  the  potent  hand  of  God  from  above  send  unto  us  a  won- 
of^the"^^"  derfull  and  most  joyfull  deliverance:  For  unhappy  Francis, 
kicK.  husband  to  our  Soverane,  suddandlie  perissheth  of  a  rottin 
ear.  But  becaus  the  death  of  that  child  was  nott  onlie  the 
cause  of  joy  to  us  in  Scotland,  but  also  by  it  war  the  faythfull 
in  France  delivered,  as  it  ware,  from  the  present  death,  we 
think  expedient  to  entreat  the  same  somewhat  more  largelie. 

1  Tbe  persons  of  the  French  faction  (vol.  i.  p.  183,  note  2) ;  and  John  Sin- 
here  named,  have  been  previously  men-  clair,  Dean  of  Restalrig,  (vol.  i.  p.  266, 
tioned  by  Knox,  viz.  James  Beaton,  note  2,)  became  Bishop  of  Brechin  in 
Archbishop  of  Glasgow,  (vol.  i.  p.  252,  1563.  See  infra,  p.  141.  Beaton  and 
note2,)  who  survived  till  the  year  1603;  Seaton  arrived  at  Paris  on  the  3d  of 
George  Durie,  Abbot  of  Dunfermline,  Axigust.     (Tytler'sHist.  vol.  vi.  p.  176.) 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  133 

These  cruell  and  conjured  enncmycs  of  God,  and  of  all  god- 
lynes,  the  Duck  of  Gwyse,  the  Cardinall  of  Lorane,  and  thair 
factioun,  who  then  at  thair  awin  appetite  plaide  the  tyrantis 
in  France,  had  determined  the  destructioun  l  of  all  that  pro- 
fessed the  trew  knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ  within  that  Realme. 
What  tyranny  laite  befoir  thei  had  used  at  Amboyse,  the  his- 
torie  of  France  doth  witness.  Now,  in  Orleance,  in  the  moneth 
of  November,  conveyned  the  King,  unhappie  Francis,  the 
Queue  oure  Soverane,  and  the  Queue  Mother,  the  Duck  of 
Gweise,  with  all  his  factioun,  the  King  of  Navar,  and  the 
Prince  his  brother.^  So  that  great  was  the  confluence  of  the 
Nobilitie ;  but  greater  was  the  assemblie  of  the  murtheraris  ; 
for  thair  was  nott  a  hangman  in  all  France  whiche  was  nott 
thair.  The  preasonis  ware  full  of  the  trew  servandis  of  God : 
the  King  of  Navar  and  the  Prince  war  constitut  preasonaris. 
The  Schereff  of  Orleance,  a  man  fearing  God,  was  tackin,  and 
so  war  many  otheris  of  the  toune.  Breiflie,  thair  was  none 
that  professed  God  or  godlyness  within  that  toune,  that  looked 
nott  for  the  extreamitie ;  for  the  walles  and  yettis  war  nycht 
and  day  keapt  with  tha  garnysonis  of  the  Gwysianes :  miser- 
able men  Avar  dalie  browght  in  to  suffer  judgement,  but  none 
was  suffered  to  departe  furth  butt  at  the  devotioun  of  the 
tyrantis.  And  so  thei  proceided  till  the  tent  or  twelfth  of  De- 
cember, when  that  thei  thowght  tyme  to  putt  thair  bloody 
counsall  in  executioun,  and  for  that  purpoise  conclusioun  Avas 
tackin  that  the  King  should  departe  of  the  toune,  and  lye  at 
a  certane  place ;  whiche  was  done  to  this  intent,  that  thair 
should  no  suyte  be  maid  to  the  King  for  the  saiftie  of  any 

'  The  account  here  given  is  not  ex-  death  of  Francis  the  Second,  had  un- 

aggerated,   as  the  French  Protestants  doubtedly  the  effect  of  preventing  some 

were  subjected  to  fearful  persecutions,  intended  atrocities  against  the  Reform- 

aud  the  number  of  persons  brought  to  ed  party  in  France, 

the  stake  on  account  of  religion,  from  ^  A  blank  space  of  about  two  lines 

time  to  time,  would  scarcely  be  credit-  left  here  ki  MS.  1566,  as  if  to  insert 

ed,  unless  for  the  undeniable  testimony  some  additional  names, 

of  contemporary  writers.     The  sudden  '  See  next  page,  note  2. 


134  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

manis  lyfe,  wliome  tliei  tliowglit  Avorthy  of  death.  And  so 
was  the  Kingis  house  in  Orleance  broken  up,  his  beddis, 
cofferis,  and  tapistree  sent  away ;  his  awin  buttis  putt  on,  he 
sitting  at  the  Messe,  inimediatlie  thairafter  to  have  departed, 
and  so  thair  tyrannic  to  have  begune, — when  all  thingis,  we 
say,  war  into  this  readdyness  to  sched  the  bloode  of  innocentis, 
the  Eternall,  our  God,  who  ever  watches  for  the  preservatioun 
of  his  awin,  begane  to  work,  and  suddandlie  did  put  his  awin 
werk  in  executioun.  For  as  the  said  King  satt  at  Messe,  he 
was  suddandlie  strikkin  with  ane  aposthume,  in  that  deaf  eare 
that  never  w^ald  hear  the  treuth  of  God  ;  and  so  was  he 
caryed  to  ane  void  house,  layd  upoun  a  palliase  unto  suche 
tyme  as  a  camiabie  was  sett  up  unto  him  ;  whair  he  lay  till 
the  fyftene  day  of  December,  in  the  year  of  God  J"  V*"  threscoir 
yearis,2  when  his  glorie  perished,  and  the  pryde  of  the 
stubbume  heart  evanished  in  smok.  And  so  was  the  snare 
brokin,  the  tyrantis  disappoynted  of  thair  crueltye  ;  those  that 
war  appointed  to  death  rased,  as  it  war  out  of  thair  graves ; 
and  we,  who  by  our  foolischnes  had  maid  our  selves  slaves  to 
strangearis,  war  restored  agane  to  freedome  and  libertie  of  a 
free  Realme.  ^ 

"  Oh  !  that  we  had  heartis  deaplie  to  considder  what  ar 
thy  wonderouse  workis,  0  Lord,  that  we  mycht  praise  Thee  in 
the  myddest  of  this  most  obstinat  and  wicked  generatioun, 

^  There  can  be   little  doubt  that  by  whetlier   translated   by  Buchanan    or 

"  Ml-.  Geoi-ge,"  we  are  to  understand  Knox,  these  lines  may  be  esteemed  a 

Mr.   George  Buchanan.      He   was  in  literary  curiosity.     Buchanan  retiu-ned 

France  at  the  time  of  the  King's  death,  to  Scotland  about  the  same  time  with 

and  it  is  highly  probable  he  may  not  Mary  Queen  of  Scots,  in  the  summer  or 

only  have  furnished  Knox  with  the  in-  autumn  of  1561. 

formation  contained  in  this  paragraph,  -  The   date    here    assigned  for   the 

but  also  have  supplied  him  with   the  death  of  the  French  monarch,  is  incor- 

translatiou  of  the  Latin  verses  on  page  i-ect.     He  died  on  the  5th,  not  the  15th 

136.     The  style  of  this  version  corres-  of  December  1560,  (although  Mezeray, 

ponds  so  much  with  the  prose  writings  the  French  historian,   says  it  was  on 

and  the  few  letters  of  Buchanan  writ-  the  4th  of  that   month,)  after  a  short 

ten  in  his  native  tongue,  as  to  warrant  reign  of  sixteen  mouths  and  twenty-four 

tliis    ascription  ;    but    in   either    case.  days,  in  the  1 7th  year  of  his  age. 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  135 

and  leave  the  memoriall  of  the  same  to  oure  posterities, 
whiche,  allace,  we  fear,  shall  forget  thy  inestimable  benefites." 
The  godlie  in  France,  upoiin  this  sucldane  death,  sett  furtli  in 
these  verses  ane  admonitioun  to  Kingis : — 

Ad  hujus  temporis  Monarchas  Protrepticon  Carmen.^ 
Consiliis  Christum  oppugnans  et  fraudibus,  ingens 

Regum  ille  terror  Carolus  : 
Ijjsis  ridiculis  j)ueris,  furiosus,  et  excors, 

Totus  repente  corruit. 
Tuque  Henrice,  malis  dum  consultoribus  utens, 

Sitis  piorum  sanguinem : 
Ipse  tuo  vecors,  inopina,  ca^de  peremptus 

Terram  imbuisti  sanguine. 
Henrici  deinceps,  sectans  vestigia  patris 

Franciscus  infoelix  puer, 
Clamantem  Christum  surda  dum  negligit  aure, 

Aure  putrefacta  corruit. 

1  The  writer  of  these  verses  is  un-  "  AD  HVIVS  TEMPORIS 

known.      They  occur    in    an    anony-  Monarchas  ^^or^i^nxov  Carmen. 

mous  work,    containins;  much  ciu'ious       ^      ....    rn   ■  ^  >>  e 

'  "=    ,     .  ,  tunsiliis  thnstiim  oppugnans,    <5,-c. 

and  important  matter  relating  to  the 

state  of  Religion  in   France,  entitled,  There  is    a   similar   work    entitled, 

"  Commentaires  de  I'Estat  de  la  Reli-  "  Commentariorum  de  Statu  Religionis 

gionetRepubliquesoubslesRois  Henry  et  Reipublicte  in  Regno  Francias,  Pars 

et  Francois   seconds,  et   Charles  neu-  i-v."   by  Joannes  Serranus,  a  learned 

fieme.     (1556-1 .561. )_m.d.lxv."      8vo.  divine.     The  author  of  the  "  Commen- 

foU.   262.      The  above   "  Vers   Latins  taires,"    was    Peter   de  la    Place,    an 

faictssur  la  mortdu  Roy  Francois,"  are  eminent  lawyer,  whom  Henry  the  Se- 

thus  introduced  at  fol.  100  :  cond  had  appointed  King's  Advocate 

"  Non  long  temps  apres  furent  divul-  and  President  of  the  Court  of  Aids,  in 

guez  quelques  vers  Latins  faicts  sur  la  Paris.     In  1560,  he  openly  avowed  him- 

uiort   dudict    Roy   Fran9ois,    du    Roy  self  a  Protestant,  which  obliged  him  to 

Henry    son    pere,    et    de    I'Empereur  leave  Paris,  and  in  the  troubles  that 

Charles  cinquieme,   qui  m'ont   sembl6  followed,  his  library  and  eflfccts  were 

estre    dignes    de    memoire,   et   d'estre  pillaged  or  destroyed ;  and  he  himself 

conservez  a  la  posterite :  lesquels  pom--  eventually  became  one  of  the  victims  in 

tant  i'ay  voulu  icy  adiouster,  la  super-  the  atrocious  massacre  of  the  Protes- 

scription  estaut  telle  qu'il  s'eusuit  cy  tants  on  the  eve  of  St.  Bartholomew, 

apres.  25th  August  1572. 


136  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

Versuti,  fatui,  siirdi,  hsec  spectacula,  Reges, 
Vos  sapere  vel  mori  jubent. 

The  meanyng  whairof  is,  that  Charles — 

Kynge  Charles  that  tyrane  terrible, 

Withstanding  Christ  with  witt  and  craft, 
As  mocking  stock  most  miserable, 

Endit  at  ones  ragine  and  daft,  i 
Then  Henrie  through  evill  cumpany, 

Thristing  the  blood  of  godlie  men. 
With  his  awin  blood,  schedd  suddantlie, 

Was  maid  to  wait  the  end  ye  ken.^ 
Last,  Francis,  that  unhappie  child. 

His  Father's  footsteps  following  plane, 
To  Christ  crying,  deafe  eares  did  yeild, 

Ane  rotten  eare  then  was  his  baine. 
0  craft  ie,  deif,  and  foolische  Kyngs, 

These  fearfuU  judgments  gone  befoir  you, 
Biddeth  you  be  wyser  in  your  reignes. 

Or  schamefull  death  will  sone  devoir  you. 

The  death  of  this  King  maid  great  alteratioun  in  Fraunce, 
England,  and  Scotland.  France  was  erected  in  some  esperance, 
that  the  tyranny  of  the  Gwysianis  should  no  longar  ring  above 
thame,  becaus  that  God  at  unwares  had  brokin  the  staff 
whairupoun  thei  leaned.  But,  allace,  thei  war  deceaved :  for 
the  simplicitie  of  some  was  so  abused,  that,  against  the  lawes 
of  the  Realme,  to  the  Queue  Mother  was  committed  regiment : 

1  The  Empei'or  Charles  the  Fifth,  and  devotion,  wliich  betrayed  a  weakness  of 

King  of  Spain.    After  having  abilicated  understanding.     He  died  21st  Septem- 

his  throne  to  his  son  Philip  the  Second,  ber  1558. 

in  October  1555,  he  took  up  Ids  retreat  ^  Henry  the  Second,  King  of  France, 

in  the  convent  of  St.  Just,  in  the  Pro-  His  death,  on  the  10th  July  1559,  is 

vince  of  Estraniadura,  in  Spain.     The  previously  mentioned  by  Knox  :  see  vol. 

change  from  an  active  life,  and  his  mor-  i.  p.  371. 
titled  ambition,  led  to  acts  of  fantastic 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  137 

wliicli  lifted  up  aswcill  the  Duck  of  Gwyse,  as  the  cruell  Car- 
clinall  for  a  seassone. 

The  Queue  of  England  and  the  Counsall,  remitted  our 
Ambassadouris  with  answer,  "  That  sehe  Avald  nott  marye  haste- 
lye,  and,  thairfoir,  willed  the  Counsall  of  Scotland,  and  the 
Erie  of  Arrane,  foirsaid,  nott  to  depend  upoun  any  hope  thair- 
of"^     What  motives  she  had,  we  omitt. 

The  pryde  of  the  Papists  of  Scotland  begane  to  be  abated, 
and  some  that  ever  had  schawin  tliame  selfis  ennemyes  unto 
us,  begane  to  think,  and  planelie  to  speak,  (amanges  whom  the 
auld  Schiref  of  Ayr^  was  one,)  that  thei  perceaved  God  to 
feght  for  us.  The  Erie  of  Arrane  him  self  did  more  patientlie 
abyd  the  repulse  of  the  Queue  of  England,  becaus  that  he  was 
nott  altogitther  without  hope  that  the  Queue  of  Scotland  bare 
unto  him  some  favour.  And  so  he  wrait  unto  her,  and  send 
for  credite  a  ryng,  whiclie  the  said  Queue  our  Soverane  knew 
well  yneuch.  The  letter  and  ring  war  baith  presented  to  the 
Queue,  and  of  her  receaved.  Answer  was  returned  to  the 
said  Erie,  after  the  wliiche  he  maid  no  farther  persuyte  in  that 
mater :  and  yitt,  not  the  less,  he  bare  it  heavelie  in  harte,^  and 
more  heavelie  then  many  wold  have  wissed. 

The  certaintie  of  the  death  foirsaid  was  signified  unto  us 
both  by  sea  and  land.  By  sea  receaved  Johnne  Knox  (who 
then  had  great  intelligence  both  with  the  churches,  ^  and  some 
of  the  Courte  of  France)  letteris,  that  the  King  w^as  mortallye 

1  This  projected  alliance  with  Eliza-  year  1508.     He  survived  till  February 

beth   was   the   chief  object,    as    men-  1561-2.      His   son   and   successor,    Sir 

tioned  at  page  130,  for  which  the  Par-  Matthew  Campbell,  was  a  zealous  and 

liament  had  sent  ambassadors  to  the  decided  supporter  of  the  Reformation. 

Court  of  England.     This  scheme  being  ^  The  disappointment  that  attended 

thus  frustrated,  the  death  of  Francis  the  his  overtures  of  marriage  with  Queen 

Second  suggested  a  similar  alliance  with  Mary,  seems  to   have  preyed  on  the 

Queen  Alary.  Earl  of  Arran's  spirits,  and  before  long 

"  Sir  Hugh  Campbell  of  Loudon,  herit-  to  have  unfitted  him  for  all  public  em- 
able  Sheriff  of  the  county  of  Ayr,  had  ployment. 
succeeded  his  father,  Sir  Hugh,  in  the  *  Li  MS.  G,  "  the  Kyrk." 


138  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

seak,  and  could  nott  weall  escliap  tlie  death.  Which  letteris 
receaved,  that  same  day  at  afternoon,  he  passed  to  the  Duckis 
Grace,  to  his  awin  ludging  at  the  Kirk  of  Feild,i  [with]  whome 
he  fand  the  Lord  James  in  conference  togitther,  (the  Erie  of 
Arrane  was  in  Jedburgh,)  to  whome  he  opened  such  newis  as 
he  had  receaved,  and  willed  thame  to  be  of  good  conforte  ; 
for,  said  he,  the  advertissare  never  hes  yitt  abused  me :  it 
is  the  same  gentilman  that  first  gave  us  knawledge  of  the 
slauchter  of  Hary  King  of  France ;  and  shew  unto  thame  the 
letter,  but  wold  nott  expresse  the  manis  name.  Whill  tliei 
war  reassonying  in  diverse  purposes ;  and  he  upoun  the  one 
parte  conforting  thame,  and  thei  upoun  the  other  parte  con- 
forting  him,  (for  he  was  in  no  small  heaviness  be  reassone  of 
the  late  death  of  his  dear  bedfellow,  Marjorie  Bowis,)2  whill 
(we  say)  thei  three  war  familiarlie  commonyng  togetther,  thair 
came  a  messinger  from  the  Lord  Grey,^  furth  of  Berwick,  with 
letteris,  assuring  him  of  the  death  of  the  King  of  France. 
Which  devulgat  and  noysed  abrode,  a  generall  Conventioun  of 
the  haill  Nobilitie  was  apj)ointed  to  be  holdin  at  Edinburgh 
the  fyvetene^  day  of  Januare  following,  in  the  whiche  the 
Booke  of  Discipline  was  perused  newlie  oure  agane,  for  some 
pretended  ignorance,  be  reassone  thei  had  not  heard  it. 

In  that  assemblie  was  Maister  Alexander  Andersone,  sub- 
principall  of  Abirdene,^  a  man  more  subtill  and  craftye  then 

1  The  Kirk  of  Field  was  the  name  us-  ^  Mr.  Alexander  Anderson,  parson  of 

ually  given  to  the  Collegiate  Church  of  St.  Methlik,  and  vicar  of  Kinkell,  was  ap- 

Mary  in  the  Fields,  Edinburgh.  It  stood  pointed   Principal   of   Iving's   College, 

on  the  site  of  the  College  ;  and  was  the  Aberdeen,  in  the  year  1550.     The  Ge- 

scene,  as  related  in  Book  Fifth,  of  Darn-  neral  Assembly  having  appointed  a  vi- 

ley's  Murder  in  1566.  sitation  of  the  College  in  1568,  Ander- 

*  In  MS.  G,  she  is  erroneously  named  son,  with  the  Sub-Principal,  and  three 

"  Marie  Bowes ;"  her  death  took  place  of  the  Regents  or  Professors,  were  sum- 

towards  the  end  of  December  1560.  moned    "  as   very  obstinate   Papists," 

3  Lord  Grey  de  Wilton :   see  supra,  and   having  refused  to  subscribe  the 

p.  65.  Confession  of  Faith,  and  the  Acts  1560, 

■•  In  MS.  G,  "  the  fyft  day."    The  5th  and  1567,  they  were  deposed  by  order 

was  a  Sunday;  the  15th  Wednesday.  of  the  Lord  Regent  and  Council,  the 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  139 

atlier  learned  or  godlie,  called,  who  refused  to  dispute  in  his 
fayth,  abusing  a  place  of  Tertulliane  to  cloik  his  ignorance. 
It  was  ansuered  unto  him,  That  Tertulliane  should  nott  pre- 
judge the  authoritie  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  who,  by  the  mouth  of 
Peter,  commandis  us  to  geve  reassone  for  our  faith  to  everie 
one  that  requires  the  same  of  us.  It  was  farther  answered. 
That  we  neather  required  him  neather  yitt  any  man  to  dis- 
pute in  any  pointe  concernyng  our  fayth,  whiche  was  grounded 
upoun  Godis  word,  and  fully  expressed  within  his  holy  Sci'ip- 
tures ;  for  all  that  we  belevit  without  contraversie.  But  we 
required  of  him,  as  of  the  rest  of  Papistis,  that  thei  wald 
suffer  thair  doctrin,  constitutionis,  and  ceremonies  to  come  to 
tryall ;  and  principallie,  that  the  Messe,  and  the  opinioun 
thairof  by  thame  taught  unto  the  people,  mycht  be  laid  to  the 
squair-reull  of  Goddis  worde,  and  unto  the  rycht  institutioun 
of  Jesus  Christ,  that  thei  mycht  understand  whither  that 
thair  Preacheris  offended  or  nott,  in  that,  that  thei  affirmed, 
"  The  actioun  of  the  Messe  to  be  expressedlye  rejiugnyng  unto 
the  last  Supj)er  of  the  Lord  Jesus  ;  the  sayar  of  it  to  committ 
horrible  blasphemye,  in  usurping  iqjoun  him  the  office  of 
Christ  ;  the  hearars  to  committ  damnable  idolatrie,  and  the 
opinioun  of  it  conceaved  to  be  derogatioun,  and  as  it  war,  dis- 
anidling  of  Christis  death."  Whill  that  the  said  Maister  Alex- 
ander denyed  that  the  preast  took  upoun  him  Christis  office, 
to  offer  for  syne,  as  was  alledged,  a  Messe  book  was  produced, 

sentence  being  pronounced  by  John  of  thair  religeoune.  Amangis  the 
Erskine  of  Dim,  Superintendent  of  An-  quhilkis  thair  was  causit  to  compeir 
gus  and  Mearns,  30th  June  1569.  furth  of  the  Universitie  of  Aberdene, 
(Calderwood's  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  491 ;  Mr.  John  Leslye,  OfiBcial  of  Aberdene, 
Booke  of  the  Ivirk,  vol.  i.  pp.  141-143.)  licentiat  in  boith  the  lawis,  JNli-.  Alex- 
Bishop  Lesley,  who  was  personally  ander  Anderson  Principal  of  the  Col- 
concerned  in  the  disputation  mentioned  lege,  Professor  of  Theologie,  and  sindrie 
by  Ivnox,  says,  the  Lords  of  the  Con-  utheris."  He  adds,  that  after  "  very 
gregation,  (in  the  winter  of  1560,)  sharpe  and  hard  disputatious,"  with 
"  Causit  summone  sindrie  of  the  best  Knox,  Willock,  and  Goodman,  "  nothing 
learnit  men  out  of  all  the  partes  of  the  was  concludit,  for  everie  ane  of  thame 
Realme  to  cum  to  Edinburgh,  to  gif  remanit  constant  in  thair  awiu  profcs- 
reasone  of  thair  faith  and  professione  sione."     (Hist.  p.  293.) 


140  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

and  in  tlie  begyning  of  the  Canon  war  these  wordis  redd : 
Suscipe,  Sancta  Trinitas,  hanc  oblationem,  quam  ego  indignus 
■peccator  offero  tibi  vivo  Deo  et  vero,  pro  peccatis  meis,  pro 
peccatis  totius  Ecdesice  vivorum  et  mortuorum,  (fee.  i  "  Now, 
(said  the  reasonare,)  yf  to  offer  for  the  synnes  of  the  haill  Kirk 
was  nott  the  oiSce  of  Christ  Jesus,  yea,  that  office  that  to  him 
onlie  mycht,  and  may  apparteane,  lett  the  Scripture  judge. 
And  yf  a  vyle  knave,  whome  ye  call  the  preast,  proudlie  tackis 
the  same  upoun  him,  lett  your  awin  book  witnesse."  The  said 
Maister  Alexander  ansuered,  "  Christ  offered  the  propitiatorie, 
and  that  could  nane  do  but  he ;  but  we  offer  the  remem- 
brance." Wliairto  it  was  ansuered,  "  We  praise  God,  that  ye 
have  denyed  a  sacrifice  propitiatorie  to  be  in  the  Masse  ;  and 
yet  we  offer  to  prove,  that  in  mo  then  a  hundreth  places  of 
your  Papisticall  Doctouris,  this  propositioun  is  affirmed,  '  The 
Messe  is  a  sacrifice  propitiatorie.'  But,  to  the  secound  parte, 
whair  ye  allege  that  ye  offer  Christ  in  remembrance,  we  ask, 
first.  Unto  whome  do  ye  offer  him  ?  and  nixt.  By  what  autho- 
ritie  are  ye  assured  of  weall-doing  ?  In  God  the  Father,  thair 
fallis  no  oblivioun :  and  yf  ye  wiU  yitt  schift  and  say,  That 
ye  offer  it  nott  as  God  war  forgetfull,  but  as  willing  to  apply 
Christis  merittis  to  his  Churche ;  we  demand  of  you,  Wliat 
power  and  commandiment  ye  have  so  to  do  ?  We  know  that 
our  Maister,  Christ  Jesus,  commanded  his  Apostles  to  do  that 
whiclie  he  did  '  in  remembrance  of  him  ;'  but  plane  it  is,  that 
Clirist  took  bread,  gave  thankis,  braik  bread,  and  gave  it  to 
his  disciples,  saying,  '  Tak  ye,  eat  ye ;  this  is  my  body 
wliiche  is  broken  for  you.  Do  this  in  remembrance  of  me,' 
&c.  Here  we  fynd  a  commandiment  to  tak,  to  eat,  to  tak 
and  to  drink  ;  but  to  offer  Christis  body  eather  for  remem- 
brance or  applicatioun,  we  fynd  not :   and  thaiifoir,  we  say, 

'  That  is,  "  Holy  Trinity,  accept  this  God  for  my  own  sins,  and  for  the  sins 
oblation,  which  I,  an  unworthy  sinner,  of  the  whole  Church  of  the  quick  and 
present  to   thee  the   living  and   true       the  dead,"  &c. 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  141 

to  tack  upoun  you  aiie  office  which  is  nott  gevin  unto  you,  is 
injust  usurpatioun,  and  no  lauchfull  power."  The  said  Maister 
Alexander  being  more  then  astonished,  wold  have  schifted ; 
but  then  the  Lordis  willed  him  to  ansuer  directlie.  Whairto 
he  ansured,  "  That  he  was  better  seane  in  philosophie,  then  in 
theologie."  Then  was  commanded  Maister  Johne  Leslie,  (who 
then  was  Parsone  of  line,  and  now  Lord  Abbote  of  Londoris,)  ^  ^.f "  ^.^f-'' 
to  ansuer  to  the  formare  argument :  and  he  with  grait  gravitie  qp^'koss!'''' 
begane  to  answer,  "  Yf  our  Maister  have  nothing  to  say  to  it, 
I  have  nothing ;  for  I  knaw  nothing  but  the  Cannoun  Law  : 
and  the  greatest  reassone  that  ever  I  could  fynd  thair,  is  No- 
lumus  and  Volumus."  And  yitt  we  understand  that  now  he 
is  the  onlie  patrone  of  the  Messe.  But  it  is  no  mervall,  for 
he  understoode  that  he  is  a  Preastis  gett ;  and  thairfoir  we 
should  nott  wonder  albeit  that  the  auld  trowane  verse  be 
trew,  Patrem  sequitur  sua  proles.  The  Nobilitie  hearing  that 
neather  the  one  nor  the  other  wold  ansure  directlie,  said,  "  We 
have  bene  miserable  deceaved  heirtofoir ;  for  ji  the  Messe 
may  not  obteane  remissioun  of  synnes  to  the  quick  and  to  the 
dead,  whairfoir  war  all  the  Abacyes  so  richelie  doted  with  oure 
temporall  landis  V 

Thus  much  we  thocht  good  to  insert  here,  becaus  that  some 
Papistis  ar  nott  eschamed  now  to  affirme,  Tliat  thei  with  thair  the  lyeino 

^  .  DEANE  OF 

reassonis  could  never  be  hearde  :   but  that  all  that  we  did,  restalrig, 

_  '   CALLED 

we  did  by  fyn  force  ;  when  that  the  haill  Realme  knawis,  that  synclare.j 

1  A  short  notice  of  Lesley,  Bishop  of  was  written  to  the  earlier  part  of  the 

Ross,  will  be  given  in  the  Appendix,  year  1566. 

under  the  head  of  Abbots  of  Lundores.  *  This  marginal  note   occurs  in  no 

But  here  it  may  be  mentioned,  that  the  other  copy ;  and  the  words  "  now  to 

words  in  the  margin,  "  and  after  was  afi&rme,"  were  evidently  written  during 

MADE  Btschope  OF  Ross,"  are  written  Sinclair's  life;  and  along  with  the  si- 

in   a   different   hand,   (most  likely  by  milar  mention  of  the  Dean  of  Restal- 

Knox  himself,)  and  clearly  posterior  to  rig,   in  the  Author's   emphatic  terms, 

the  rest  of  the  page.  By  attending  there-  "  as  a  perfect   hypocrite,"    (vol.   i.  p. 

fore  to  the  dates  of  Lesley's  successive  265,)   it  corroborates  the  supposition 

appointments,  this  serves   to  fix   the  that  the  greater  portion  of  this  MS. 

period  when  this  portion  of  the  Hi,story  must  have  been   written  in  the  year 


142  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

we  ever  requyred  thame  to  speak  tliair  judgment  is  freelie,  not 
onlie  promissing  unto  thame  protectioun  and  defense,  but  also 
that  we  should  subscrive  with  thame,  yf  thei  by  Goddis 
Scriptures  could  confute  us,  and  by  the  same  word  establisse 
thair  assertionis.  "  But  who  can  correct  the  leasingis  of  such 
as  in  all  thingis  schaw  thame  selves  the  sones  of  the  Father  of 
all  lyes.  Preserve  us.  Lord,  from  that  perverst  and  malitious 
generatioun.     Amen." 

At  this  same  Assemblie  was  the  Lord  James  appoynted  to 
go  to  France  to  the  Queue  oure  Soverane  ;3  and  a  Parliament 
was  appointed  to  begyn  the  twenty  of  Maij  nixt  following  ; 
for  at  that  tyme  was  the  returne  of  the  said  Lord  James 
looked  for.  And  so  was  that  Conventioun  dissolved  without 
any  other  thing  of  importance  concluded.  The  said  Lord 
James  prepared  him  for  his  jornay  ;  (for  albeit  he  past  in  the 
publict  effairis,  he  susteaned  the  charge  of  his  awin  expensses  ; 
and  yit  thair  never  past  fra  this  Realme  in  the  cumpanye  of 
one  man  so  many,  and  so  honest,  throwght  England  to  France.) 
Befoir  he  departed,  he  was  foirwarned  asweill  of  the  danger  in 
France,  as  of  the  Quenis  craft,  (not  that  we  then  suspected 
her  nature,  but  that  we  understoode  the  malice  of  hirfreindis:) 
lie  was  planelie  premonisshed,  that  yf  ever  he  condiscended 

1566.     It  -will  be  seen  from  the  foot-  was  in  no  hurry  to  depart  "  till  he  see 

notes  on  the  passage  referred  to,  that  what  will  be  done  at  the  ensuing  Parlia- 

Mr.  John  Sinclair,  Dean  of  Restalrig,  ment."     (lb.)     In  a  letter  to  Cecil,  7th 

was  promoted  to  the  See  of  Brechin  in  February  1560-1,  he  desires  a  passport, 

1563,    and    became    President   of   the  "  being  ordered  by  the   Nobility  and 

Court  of  Session,  13th  November  1565.  Council,  to  our  Sovereign,  for  declara- 

He  died  at  Edinburgh,  9th  April  1566.  tion  of  our  duty  and   devotion  to  her 

3  Lord  James  Stewart  was  appointed  Highness."  (lb.)  He  left  Edinburgh,  on 

to  repair  to  Queen  Mary,  by  the  Con-  his  way  to  France,  18th  March,  passing 

vention,  15th  January  1560-1.      Chal-  through  England,  where  he  was  well 

mers  is  undoubtedly  correct  when  he  entertained,  and  reached  the  town  of 

says,  he  had  no  authority,  to  persuade  Diziers,  -where  Queen  Mary  was  resid- 

the  Queen  to  return  to  Scotland.   (Life  of  ing,  on  the  15th  April  1561.     (Bishop 

Queen  Mary,  vol.  iii.  p.  141.)     But  Lord  Lesley's  History,  p.  294.) 
James,  as  we  are  informed  by  Randolph, 


1501. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


143 


that  sclie  should  have  Messe  publictlic  or  privatlie  within  the 
Reahiie  of  Scotland,  that  then  betrayed  he  the  cans  of  God, 
and  exponed  the  religioun  evin  to  the  uttermoist  danger  that 
he  could  do.  That  sche  should  have  Messe  publictlie,  he 
affirmed  that  he  should  never  consent :  but  to  have  it  secreat- 
lie  in  hir  chalmer,  who  could  stopp  hir?  The  danger  was 
schawin  ;  and  so  he  departed. 

The  Electioun  of  the  Superintendentis  heirefter  followed  in 
this  manor  -A — 


1  In  the  MS.  1566,  of  Knox's  History, 
several  blank  pages  occur  after  these 
words ;  but  the  deficiency,  consisting  of 
the  "  Forme  and  Order  of  the  Election 
of  Superintendents,"  &c.,  (ending  at 
page  150  of  the  present  volume,)  has 
been  supplied  fi-om  the  Glasgow  MS., 
collated  with  a  copy  annexed  to  "  The 
Ordour  of  Excommunication,"  &c.,  sub- 
joined to  an  edition  of  the  Psalms  and 
Prayers,  printed  at  Edinburgh,  by  Ro- 
bert Charteris,  1596.  It  is  also  in- 
cluded in  the  "  Collection  of  Confessions 
of  Faith,"  &c.,  vol.  ii.  p.  625,  Edinb. 
1722.  The  Editor  says,  he  has  printed 
it  accordhig  to  an  edition  by  Robert 
Lekprevik  1569;  and  that  "it  differs 
little  from  the  ordinary  copies  that  are 
printed  with  the  old  Psalms,  but  in  the 
manner  of  spelling  of  words." 


The  Editor  of  the  Collection  of  Con- 
fessions, thus  mentions  the  Order  of 
Election  of  Elders  and  Deacons :  "  It 
is  uncertain  when  this  was  written  ;  but 
it  is  in  the  Manuscript  copy  of  Knox's 
History,  which  is  in  the  College  Library 
of  Glasgow,  and  is  printed  at  Edin- 
burgh, with  other  publick  papers,  by 
Robert  Lekprevik,  Anno  1569,  accord- 
ing to  which  this  edition  is  printed.  It 
is  approved  by  the  General  Assembly, 
April  1582,  Sess.  12,  in  these  words, — 
'  Concerning  ane  General  Ordor  of  Ad- 
mission to  the  Office  of  Eldaris,  referris 
it  to  the  Ordor  usit  at  Edmburgh,  quhilk 
we  approve.' " 

The  Admonition  or  prayer  at  the  end, 
(see  page  154,)  in  its  reference  to  the 
King  and  Regent,  apparently  fixes  the 
date  to  the  year  1568. 


144  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

The  Forme  and  Ordour  of  the  Electioun  of  the  Super- 
intendents,   QUHILK    MAY    SERVE    ALSO   IN   ElECTIOUN   OF 

ALL  uther  Ministers.      At   Edinburghe   the   9th  of 
Merche  15601  YEiRis,  Johne  Knox  being  Minister.2 

First  was  made  a  Sermone,  in  tlie  quliilk  tliir  Heids  war 
intreated.  First,  The  necessity  of  Ministers  and  Superinten- 
dents. 2.  The  crymes  and  vyces  that  micht  unable  thame 
[of  the  ministrie].  3.  The  vertues  required  in  thame.  And 
last,  Quhidder  sick  as  by  publict  consent  of  the  Kyrk  wer 
callit  to  sick  Office,  micht  refuis  the  same. 

The  Sermone  finisched,  it  was  declared  be  the  same  Minis- 
ter, (maker  thareof,)  that  the  Lords  of  Secrete  Councell  had 
given  charge  and  power  to  the  Kirkis  of  Lauthiane,  to  chuse 
Mr.  Johne  Spottiswode^  Superintendent  ;  and  that  sufficient 
warning  was  made  be  publict  edict  to  the  Kirks  of  Edin- 
burghe, Linlythgow,  Striveling,  Tranent,  Hadingtoun,  and 
Dunbar  ;  as  also  to  Earles,  Lords,  Barones,  Gentilmen,  and 
uthers,  having,  or  quho  micht  clame  to  have  voite  in  Elec- 
tioun, to  be  present  that  day,  at  that  same  hour :  And,  thare- 

1  That  is,  9th  March  1560-1.  lany,  vol.  i.  p.  367.)    He  may,  with  much 

2  In  some  copies,  "  Moderator."  more  truth,  be  said  to  have  "  continued 

3  Mr.  John  Spottiswood  was  born  in  this  holy  function,  with  the  approba- 
about  the  year  1510,  and  was  educated  tion  of  all  good  men,  till  his  death,"  than 
at  Glasgow.  His  name  occurs  in  the  to  "  have  exercised  fully  the  power,  and 
University  records,  as  incorporated  in  discharged  faithfully  the  office  of  a 
1534,  being  designed  "  Servus  domini  Bishop,  though  under  another  style ;" 
Rectoris."  In  1536  he  had  taken  his  (Life  prefixed  to  Spottiswood's  History, 
degree  as  Master  of  Arts.  He  is  said  Lond.  1655,  folio.)  The  office  of  Su- 
to  have  been  in  England  from  1538  to  perintcndent  was  merely  temporary; 
1543,  and  to  have  returned  with  the  and  he  himself  displayed  no  assump- 
Earl  of  Glencairn.  In  1548  he  was  tion  of  authority  over  his  bretliren  in  the 
presented  to  the  Vicarage  of  Calder.  ministry,  nor  aspired  after  Episcopal 
Having  early  joined  the  Reformers,  he  dignity.  He  died  5th  December  1585. 
was  nominated  as  Superintendent  of  His  eldest  son,  who  became  his  succes- 
Lothian  in  July  1560,  and  was  admitted,  sor  as  Minister  of  Calder,  was  ultimate- 
agreeably  to  the  above  form,  9th  March  ly  Archbishop  of  St.  Andrews,  and  Lord 
1561,  without  i-esigning  his  charge  as  Chancellor  of  Scotland. 

minister  of  Calder.     (Wodrow  Miscel- 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  145 

fore,  inquisitioun  was  made,  Qulio  wer  present,  and  quho  Aver 
absent. 

Efter  was  called  the  said  Mr.  Joline,  quho  answering; 
the  Minister  demanded,  Gif  ony  man  knew  ony  ciyme  or 
offence  to  tlie  said  Mr.  Johne,  that  mycht  unabill  him  to  be 
called  to  that  office  ?  And  this  he  demanded  thryis.  Secund- 
lie,  Questioun  was  moved  to  the  haill  multitude,  If  thair  was 
ony  uther  quhome  they  wald  put  in  Electioun  with  the  said 
Mr.  Johne.  The  pepill  wer  asked.  If  they  wald  have  the  said 
Mr.  Johne  Superintendent  ?  If  they  wald  honour  and  obey 
him  as  Christis  Minister  ?  and  comfort  and  assist  him  in  every 
thing  perteining  to  his  Charge  ?  They  Answerit. — We  will ; 
and  we  do  promeis  unto  him  sick  obedience  as  becumethe 
the  scheip  to  give  unto  thair  Pastour,  sa  laug  as  he  remains 
faythfull  in  his  office. 

The  Answers  of  the  Pepill,  and  thair  consents  receaved,  thir 
Questiouns  wer  proponit  unto  him  that  was  to  be  elected. 

Questioun. — Seing  that  ye  hear  the  thrist  and  desyre  of  this 
people,  do  ye  not  think  yourself  bound  in  conscience  befoir 
God  to  support  thame  that  so  earnestly  call  for  your  comfort, 
and  for  the  fruit  of  your  labours  ? 

Answer. — If  anie  thing  wer  in  me  abill  to  satisfie  thair 
desyir,  I  acknowledge  myself  bound  to  obey  God  calling  by 
thame. 

Questioun. — Do  ye  seik  to  be  promoted  to  this  Office  and 
charge,  for  ony  respect  of  warldly  commoditie,  riches  or  gloiy  ? 

Answer. — God  knawes  the  contrarie. 

Questioun. — Beleve  ye  not  that  the  doctrine  of  the  Pro- 
pheits  and  Apostles,  conteined  in  the  bulks  of  the  Auld  and 
New  Testaments,  is  the  onely  trew  and  most  absolute  founda- 
tioun  of  the  universall  Kirk  of  Christ  Jesus,  insamekill  that  in 
the  same  Scriptures  ar  conteined  all  things  necessary  to  be 
beleved  for  the  salvatioun  of  Mankind  ? 

Answer. — I  verely  beleve  the  same,    and   do  abhorre  and 

VOL.  II.  K 


146  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

utterly  refuis  all  Doctrine  alleged  necessary  to  Salvatioun,  that 
is  not  expressedly  conteined  in  tlie  same. 

Questioun. — Is  not  Christ  Jesus  Man  of  Man,  according  to 
the  flesche,  to  wit,  the  Sone  of  David,  the  Seid  of  Abrahame, 
conceaved  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  borne  of  the  Virgin  Marie  his 
mother,  the  onely  Head  and  Mediatour  of  his  Kirk  ? 

Answer. — He  is,  and  without  him  thair  is  nouther  salva- 
tioun to  man,  nor  lyfe  to  angell. 

Questioun. — Is  not  the  same  Lord  Jesus,  [the]  onely  trew 
Grod,  the  Eternall  Sone  of  the  Eternall  Father,  in  quhome  all 
that  sail  be  saved  wer  elected  befoir  the  foundatioun  of  the 
world  was  layd  ? 

Answer. — I  confes  and  acknawlege  him  in  the  unitie  of  his 
Godheid,  to  be  God  above  all  thingis,  blessit  for  evir. 

Questioun. — Sail  not  they  quhome  God  in  his  eternall  coun- 
cell  hes  electit,  be  callit  to  the  knawlege  of  his  Sone,  our 
Lord  Jesus  ?  And  sail  not  they,  quho  of  purpoise  are  elected  in 
this  lyfe,  be  justified  ?  And  is  not  justificatioun  and  free  remis- 
sioun  of  sinnes  obtained  in  this  lyfe  by  free  grace  ?  Sail  not 
this  glorie  of  the  sonnes  of  God  follow  in  the  generall  resur- 
rectioun,  quhen  the  Sone  of  God  sail  appeir  in  his  glorious 
majesty  ? 

Answer. — I  acknawlege  this  to  be  the  doctrine  of  the 
Apostles,  and  the  most  singular  comfort  of  God's  childrein. 

Questioun. — Will  ye  not  contein  yourself  in  all  doctrine 
within  the  boundes  of  this  foundatioun  ?  Will  ye  not  study 
to  promote  the  same,  alsweill  by  your  lyfe  as  by  your  doc- 
trine ?  Will  ye  not,  according  to  the  graces  and  utterance 
that  God  sail  grant  unto  yow,  profes,  instructe,  and  mantene  the 
purity  of  the  doctrine,  conteined  in  the  sacred  Word  of  God? 
And,  to  the  uttemiost  of  your  power,  will  ye  not  ganestand  and 
convince  the  gajmsayers  and  teichers  of  mennis  inventiouns  ? 

Answer. — That  I  do  promeis  in  the  presence  of  God,  and 
of  his  congregatioun  heir  assembled. 


I5(;i.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  147 

Questioiin. — Knaw  ye  not,  that  the  excellency  of  this  office, 
to  the  quhilk  God  hcs  called  yow,  requires  that  your  conver- 
satioun  and  behaviour  be  sick,  as  that  ye  may  be  irreprelien- 
sible  ;  yea,  even  in  the  eyis  of  the  ungodly  ? 

Answer. — I  unfaynedly  acknawlege,  and  humilly  desyre 
the  Kirk  of  God  to  pray  with  me,  that  my  lyfe  be  not  scanda- 
lous to  the  glorious  Evangell  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Questioun. — Becaus  ye  are  a  man  compassed  with  infir- 
mities, will  ye  not  charitably,  and  with  lawlines  of  spirit, 
receave  admonitioun  of  your  Brethrein  ?  And  if  ye  sail  happin 
to  slyde,  or  offend  in  ony  point,  will  ye  not  be  subject  to  the 
Discipline  of  the  Kirk,  as  the  rest  of  your  Brethrein? 

The  Answer  of  the  Superintendent,  or  Minister  to  be  elect- 
ed.— I  acknawlege  myself  to  be  a  man  subject  to  infirmity, 
and  ane  that  lies  neid  of  correctioun  and  admonitioun ;  and 
tharefoir  I  maist  willingly  submit  and  subject  my  self  to  the 
hailsume  disciplin  of  the  Kirk  ;  yea,  to  the  discij)line  of  the 
same  Kirk  by  the  quhilk  I  ame  now  called  to  this  office  and 
chairge  ;  and  heir  in  God's  presens  and  youris  do  promeis 
obedience  to  all  admonitiones,  secretly  or  publickly  gevin ; 
unto  the  quhilk,  if  I  be  found  inobedient,  I  confes  myself 
most  worthie  to  be  ejected  not  onely  from  this  honour,  bot 
also  fronie  the  society  of  the  Faythfull,  in  cais  of  my  stub- 
burnnes  :  For  the  vocatioun  of  God  to  bear  charge  within  his 
Kirk,  makethe  not  men  tyrantes,  nor  lordis,  but  appoynteth 
thame  Servandis,  Watchemen,  and  Pastoris  of  the  Flock. 

This  ended,  Questioun  man  be  asked  agane  of  the  Multi- 
tude. 

Questioun. — Require  ye  ony  farther  of  this  your  Superin- 
tendent ? 

If  no  man  answer,  let  the  Minister  proceid.  Will  ye  not 
acknawlege  this  your  Brother,  for  the  Minister  of  Christ  Jesus  ? 
Will  ye  not  reverence  the  word  of  God  that  proceids  fra  his 
mouthe  ^     Will  ve  not  receave  of  him   the  sermone  of  exhor- 


148  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

tatioun  with  patience,  not  refuising  the  hailsome  medicine  of 
your  saules,  althocht  it  be  bitter  and  unpleising  to  the  flesche  ? 
Will  ye  not  finally,  mantene  and  comforte  him  in  his  ministry, 
against  all  sick  as  wickedly  wald  rebell  against  God  and  his 
holy  ordinance  ? 

The  Peple  answereth. — We  will,  as  we  will  answer  to  the 
Lord  Jesus,  quho  lies  commandit  his  Ministeris  to  be  had  in 
reverence,  as  his  ambassadours,  and  as  men  that  cairfully 
watche  for  the  salvatioun  of  our  saullis. 

Let  the  Nobility  also  be  urged  with  this, — Ye  have  heard  the 
dewty  and  professioun  of  this  your  Brother,  by  your  consentis 
appointit  to  this  charge ;  as  also  the  dewty  and  obedience, 
quhilk  God  requireth  of  us  towards  him  heir  in  his  ministry : 
Bot  becaus  that  neyther  of  bothe  are  abill  to  performe  ony  thing 
without  the  especiall  grace  of  our  God  in  Christ  Jesus,  quho 
hes  promcised  to  be  with  us  present,  even  to  the  consumma- 
tioun  of  the  world  ;  with  unfayned  hairtis,  let  us  crave  of 
him  his  benedictioun  and  assistance  in  this  work  begun  to 
his  glory,  and  for  the  comfort  of  his  Kirk. 

The  Pkayer. 
0  Lord,  to  quhome  all  power  is  gevin  in  lieavin  and  in 
eirthe,  thow  that  art  the  Eternall  Sone  of  the  Eternall  Father, 
quho  hes  not  onely  so  luifit  thy  Kirk,  that  for  the  redemptioun 
and  purgatioun  of  the  same,  thow  hes  humilled  thyself  to  the 
deyth  of  the  Croce  ;  and  thareupoun  hes  sched  thy  most  inno- 
cent bluid,  to  prepair  to  thyself  a  Spous  without  spott ;  bot 
also,  to  retein  this  thy  most  excellent  benefite  in  memory,  hes 
appointed  in  thy  Kirk,  Teichears,  Pastores,  and  Apostles,  to 
instruct,  comfort,  and  admonische  the  same :  Luk  upoun  us 
mercifully,  0  Lord,  thow  that  onely  art  King,  Teicher,  and 
Hie  Priest  to  thy  awin  flock  ;  and  send  unto  this  our  Brother, 
quhome  in  thy  name  we  have  chairged  with  the  cheif  cair  of 
thy  Kirk,  within  the  boundis  of  Louthiane,  sick  portioun  of 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  149 

thy  Holy  Spreit,  as  thareby  he  may  rychtly  devyde  thy 
word  to  the  instructioun  of  thy  flocke,  and  to  the  confuta- 
tioun  of  pernitious  erroures,  and  damnable  superstitiones. 
Give  unto  him,  gude  Lord,  a  mouthe  and  wisdome,  quhare- 
by  the  enemies  of  thy  truthe  may  be  confounded,  the  wolfis 
expellit,  and  driven  from  thy  fauld,  thy  scheip  may  be  fed 
in  the  wholsum  pastures  of  thy  most  holy  word,  the  blind 
and  ignorant  may  be  illuminated  with  thy  trew  knawlege  : 
Finally,  That  the  dregis  of  superstitioun  and  idolatry  quhilk 
yit  restis  within  this  Realme,  being  purged  and  removed,  we 
may  all  not  only  have  occasioun  to  glorifie  thee  our  onely 
Lord  and  Saviour,  but  also  dayly  to  grow  in  godlines  and  obe- 
dience of  thy  most  holy  will,  to  the  destructioun  of  the  body 
of  synne,  and  to  the  restitutioun  of  that  image  to  the  quhilk 
we  wer  anes  created,  and  to  the  quhilk,  efter  our  fall  and  de- 
fectioun,  we  ar  renewed  by  participatioun  of  thy  Holy  Spirit, 
quhilk  by  trew  faytli  in  thee,  we  do  profes  as  the  blissit  of  thy 
Father,  of  quhome  the  perpetuall  incres  of  thy  graces  we 
crave,  as  by  thee  our  Lord  and  King,  and  onely  Bischope,  we 
are  taucht  to  pray,  saying,  "Our  Father  that  art  in  hevin,  &c." 

The  prayer  ended,  the  rest  of  the  Ministers,  if  ony  be,  and 
Elders  of  that  Kirk  present,  in  signe  of  thair  consents,  sail  tak 
the  elected  by  the  hand,  and  then  the  cheif  Minister  sail  gif 
the  benedictioun,  as  follows  : — 

God,  the  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  quho  lies  comand- 
ed  his  Evangell  to  be  preiched,  to  the  comfort  of  his  Elect, 
and  lies  called  thee  to  the  office  of  a  Watchman  over  his  peple, 
multiply  his  graces  with  thee,  illuminat  thee  with  his  Holy 
Spirit,  comfort  and  strenthen  thee  in  all  vertewe,  governe  and 
guyde  thy  ministr)^,  to  the  prayse  of  his  holy  Name,  to  the 
propagatioun  of  Christis  kingdome,  to  the  comforte  of  his 
Kirk,  and  finally,  to  the  plain  dischairge  and  assurance  of  thy 
awin  conscience  in  the  day  of  the  Lord  Jesus  ;    to  quhome, 


150  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

witli  the  Father,  and  tlie  Holy  Ghost,  be  all  honour,  prayse, 
and  glory,  now  and  ever.     So  be  it. 

The  last  Exhoktatioun  to  the  Elected. 

Take  held  to  thy  self,  and  unto  the  Flock  comitted  to  thy 
chairg-e ;  feid  the  same  cairfuUy,  not  as  it  wer  of  compulsioun, 
bot  of  very  love,  quhilk  thow  bearest  to  the  Lord  Jesus. 
Walk  in  simplicity  and  purenes  of  lyfe,  as  it  becumethe  the 
trew  servand  and  ambassadour  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  Usurpe 
not  dominioun  nor  tyrranicall  impyre  over  thy  brethrein.  Be 
not  discouraged  in  adversity,  bot  lay  befoir  thyself  the  ex- 
ample of  Propheits,  Apostles,  and  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  qulio  in 
thair  ministry  susteaned  contradictioun,  contempt,  persecu- 
tioun  and  deyth.  Feir  not  to  rebuik  the  warld  of  sinne,  justice, 
and  jugement.  If  ony  thing  succeid  prosperously  in  thy  vo- 
catioun,  be  not  puft  upe  with  pryde ;  nether  yit  flatter  thy 
self  as  that  the  gude  succes  proceided  from  thy  vertew,  in- 
dustiy,  or  cair:  Bot  let  ever  that  sentence  of  the  Apostle 
remane  in  thy  hairt ;  "  Quhat  lies  thou,  quhilk  thou  lies  not 
receavit  ?  If  thou  lies  receivit,  quhy  gloriest  thou  V  Comfort 
the  afilicted,  support  the  puir,  and  exhort  utheris  to  support 
thame.  Be  not  solist  for  things  of  this  lyfe,  bot  be  fervent  in 
prayer  to  God  for  incress  of  his  Holy  Spirit  And  finally,  be- 
have thyself  in  this  holy  vocatioun,  with  sick  sobriety,  as  God 
may  be  glorified  in  thy  ministry :  And  so  sail  thow  schortly 
obtein  the  victory,  and  shall  receave  the  crown  promeised, 
qulien  the  Lord  Jesus  sail  appeir  in  his  glory,  quhois  Omnipo- 
tent Spirit  assist  thee  and  us  unto  the  end.     Amen. 

Then  sino-  the  23d  Psalme. 


15(J1.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  151 

The  Ordour  of  the  Electioun  of  Elderis  and  Deaconis 
IN  THE  PRiviE  Kirk  of  Edinburgh,  in  the  begynning, 

QUHEN    AS    yet    THAIR    WAS    NO    PUBLICT    FACE    OF    A    KiRK, 

NOR  OPEN  Assemblies,  bot  secreit  and  privie  Conven- 

TiouNis  in  Houses,  or  in  the  Feilds.^ 
Befoir  that  tliare  wes  ony  publict  face  of  a  trew  Religioun 
within  this  Reahne,  it  pleised  God  of  his  grit  mercie,  to  illu- 
minat  the  hairts  of  mony  privat  persones,  so  that  they  did 
perceave  and  understand  the  abusses  that  wer  in  the  Papisti- 
call  Kirk,  and  thareupoun  withdrew  thameselfis  from  partici- 
patioun  of  tliare  idolatrie.  And  becaus  the  Spirit  of  God  will 
never  suffer  his  awne  to  be  idle  and  voyde  of  all  religioun, 
men  began  to  exercise  thameselfis  in  reading  of  the  Scriptures 
secreitly  within  thair  awne  houses ;  and  varietie  of  persones 
culd  not  be  keipt  in  gud  obedience  and  honest  fame,  without 
Oversiers,  Elders,  and  Deacones :  And  so  begane  that  small 
flocke  to  put  thameselfis  in  sick  ordour,  as  if  Christ  Jesus  had 
planely  triumphed  in  the  middes  of  thame  by  the  power  of 
his  Evangell.  And  thay  did  elect  sum  to  occupie  the  su- 
preame  place  of  exhortatioun  and  reading,  som  to  be  Elderis 
and  heli^eris  unto  thame,  for  the  oversight  of  the  flocke  :  And 
some  to  be  Deacones  for  the  collectioun  of  almes  to  be  distri- 
buted to  the  poore  of  thair  awne  bodie.  Of  this  small  begyn- 
ing  is  that  Ordour,  quhilk  now  God  of  his  grit  mercie  hes  gevin 
unto  us  publictlie  within  this  Realme.  Of  the  principalis  of 
thame  that  wer  knowne  to  be  men  of  gude  conversatioun  and 
honest  fame  in  the  privy  Kirk,  wer  chosen  Elders  and  Dea- 
cones to  reuU  with  the  Minister  in  the  publike  Kirk  ;  quhilk 
burdene  thay  patiently  susteaned  a  yeir  and  mair  :  And  then, 
becaus  they  could  not  (without  neglecting  of  thair  awen 
private  houses)  langer  wait  upoun   the  publict  charge,   they 

1  As  stated  at  page  143,  the  following       loGfi,  or  in  VautroUicr's  edition;    Imt. 
Order   of  the  Election   of  Elders  and       has  been  supplied  from  MS.  G. 
Deacons  is   not   contained  in   the  M8. 


152  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

desyred  that  they  micht  be  releaved,  and  that  uthers  micht  be 
burdeined  in  thair  roume  :  Quhilk  was  thocht  a  petitioun 
ressonabill  of  the  haill  Kirk.  And  tharefore  it  was  granted 
unto  thame,  that  thay  sould  nominat  and  gif  up  in  electioun 
sick  personages  as  thay  in  thair  consciences  thocht  maist  apte 
and  abill  to  serve  in  that  charge ;  provyding  that  they  sould 
nominate  double  moe  personis  then  war  sufficient  to  serve  in 
that  charge,  to  the  end  that  the  haill  Congregatioun  micht 
have  thair  free  vote  in  thair  Electioun. 

And  this  Ordour  lies  bene  ever  observed  sen  that  tyme  in 
the  Kirk  of  Edinburgh  ;  that  is,  that  the  auld  Sessioun  befor 
thair  departure,  nominat  twenty-four  in  Electioun  for  Elders, 
of  quhom  twelve  ar  to  be  chosen,  and  thirty-two  for  Dea- 
coune.s,  of  quhome  sixteen  ar  to  be  elected  ;  quhilk  per- 
sones  ar  publictly  proclaimed  in  the  audience  of  the  haill 
Kirk,  upoun  a  Sonday  befoir  none,  efter  sermone ;  with  ad- 
monitioun  to  the  Kirk,  that  if  ony  man  knaw  ony  notorious 
cryme  or  cans  that  micht  unabill  ony  of  these  persones  to 
enter  in  sick  vocatioun,  that  they  sould  notifie  the  same  unto 
the  Sessioun  the  next  Thursday :  Or  if  ony  knaw  any  per- 
sones mair  abill  for  that  charge,  they  sould  notifie  the  same 
unto  the  Sessioun,  to  the  end  that  na  man  eyther  present  or 
absent  (being  ane  of  the  Kirk)  suld  complayne  that  he  was 
spoyled  of  his  liberty  in  electioun. 

The  Sonday  following  befoir  none,  in  the  end  of  the  Ser- 
mone, the  hole  Communicants  ar  commandit  to  be  present 
eftemone,  to  gif  thair  votes,  as  they  will  answer  befoir  God, 
to  sick  as  they  esteme  most  abill  to  beir  the  charge  of  the 
Kirk  with  the  ministers.  The  votes  of  all  being  receaved,  the 
scroles  of  all  ar  delys'ered  to  any  of  the  ministers,  quho  keips 
the  same  secreit  fra  the  sicht  of  all  men  till  the  next  Thurs- 
day ;  and  then  in  the  Sessioun  he  produces  thame,  that  the 
voites  may  be  counted,  quhare  the  moniest  voites,  without 
respect  of  persones,  have  the  first  place  in  tlie  Eldership,  and 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  153 

SO  proceiding  till  the  number  of  twelve  be  compleit ;  so  that  if 
a  puir  man  exceid  the  riche  man  in  votes,  he  preceids  him  in 
place ;  and  it  is  called  the  first,  secound,  and  thrid  Elder, 
even  as  the  votes  answereth.  And  this  same  is  observed  in 
the  electioun  of  Deaconis. 

The  Frjday  efter  the  jugement  is  tane  quhat  persones  ar 
elected  for  Elders  and  Deacones  to  serve  for  that  yeir  ;  the 
minister  efter  his  sermone,  reids  the  same  names  publictly, 
and  gives  commandment  openly,  that  sick  persones  be  present 
the  next  Sonday  at  sermone  befoir  none,  in  the  place  to  be 
appointed  for  thame,  to  accept  of  that  charge  that  God  by 
plurality  of  votes  had  layd  upoun  thame.  Quho  being  con- 
veined,  the  Minister  efter  sermone  reids  the  names  publictly, 
the  absents  (if  ony  be)  ar  noted,  and  these  quho  ar  present 
ar  admonisched  to  consider  the  dignity  of  that  vocatioun, 
quhareunto  God  hes  called  thame  ;  the  dewty  that  they  audit 
to  the  pepill  ;  the  danger  that  lyes  upoun  thame,  if  they  be 
found  negligent  in  thair  vocatioun:  And  finally,  the  dewty 
of  the  people  towards  the  persons  elected.  Quhilk  being  done, 
this  Prayer  is  red  : — 

The  Prayer  in  the  Electioun  of  the  Elderis. 
0  Eternall  and  everlasting  God,  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  quho,  of  thy  infinite  gudeness  and  mercy,  lies  chosin  to 
thy  self  a  Kirk  of  the  lost  seid  of  Adame,  quhilk  thow  lies 
ever  reulled  by  the  inspiratioun  of  thy  Holie  Spirit ;  and  yet 
not  the  less,  hes  always  usit  the  ministry  of  men,  alsvvell  in 
preiching  of  thy  Avord,  and  administratioun  of  thy  sacraments, 
as  in  gyding  of  thy  flock,  and  provyding  for  the  puir  within 
the  same,  as  in  the  Law,  Propheits,  and  in  thy  glorious  Evan- 
gell  we  have  witnesses  :  Quhilk  ordour,  0  Lord,  thow  of  thy 
niercie  lies  now  restoired  unto  us  agane  efter  that  the  publict 
face  of  the  Kirk  lies  bene  deformed  by  the  tyrany  of  that 
Romano  Antichrist.     Grant  unto  us,  0  hevinly  Father,  liairts 


154  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

tliankfull  for  the  benefites  quliilks  we  have  receaved,  and  give 
unto  tliese  our  brethrein,  elected  unto  thir  charges  within  thy 
Kirk,  sick  abundance  of  thy  Holie  Spirit,  that  they  may  be 
found  vigilant  and  faythfull  in  that  vocatioun,  quharunto 
thow  of  thy  mercy  lies  callit  thame.  And  albeit,  0  Lord, 
these  small  begynings  ar  contemned  of  the  proude  world,  yet, 
0  Lord,  do  thow  for  thy  awne  mercies  sake,  bless  the  same  in 
sick  sorte  that  thy  godlie  name  may  be  glorified,  superstitioun 
and  idolatry  may  be  ruited  out,  and  vertue  may  be  planted, 
not  onely  in  this  generatioun,  hot  also  in  the  posterity  to  cum. 
Amen.  Grant  us  this,  mercifull  Father,  for  Christ  Jesus  thy 
Sones  saik,  in  quhose  name  we  call  unto  thee,  as  he  lies  taucht 
us,  saying,  Our  Father,  he. 

And  so  efter  the  rehersall  of  the  beleif,  efter  the  quhilk  sail 
be  sung  this  portioun  of  the  103  Psalme,  ver.  19.  The  hevins 
hie  ar  maid  tJie  seat}  and  so  forth  to  the  end  of  that  Psalme. 
Efter  the  quhilk  sail  this  schort  Admonitioun  be  given  to  the 
elected : — 

Magnifie  Grod,  quho  hes  of  his  mercy  callit  yow  to  mill 
within  his  Kirk :  Be  tliankfull  in  your  vocatioun :  Schaw 
yourselfis  zealous  to  promote  verity :  Feir  not  the  faces  of  the 
wicked,  bot  rebuik  tliair  wickitnes  :  Be  mercifull  to  the  puir, 
and  support  thame  to  the  uttermost  of  your  power  ;  and  so 
sail  ye  receave  the  benedictioun  of  God,  present  and  everlast- 
ing. God  save  the  Kingis  Majestic,  and  gif  unto  him  the  Spirit 
of  sanctificatioun  in  his  young  age :  Blesse  his  Regent,  and 
sick  as  assist  him  in  upricht  counsaill,  and  eytlier  fruitfully 
convert,  or  suddanely  confound  the  enemies  of  trew  religioun, 
and  of  this  afflicted  Comoun-welthe.     Amen. 

>  That  is,  according  to  the  old  version  by  Robert  Lekprevik,  1565,  along  with 

of  the  Psalms,  by  Sternhold  and  others,  the  Common  Pi-ayers  and  Calvin's  Cale- 

wliich  continued  in  public  use  in  Scot-  chism  :     Sec   notices  and    extracts   in 

land  until  the  year  1650.     The  earliest  the  Appendix  to  Baillic's  Letters  and 

fdition  is   tliat    pvintpfl  at     Eflinbnvjrh  .Touvnnls. 


15(il.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  155 

As  the  servandis  of  God  upiychtlie  travellit  to  liaif  vice 
punissit  and  verteu  plantit,  so  did  the  Devill  ever  steir  up 
some  in  the  contrair  of  baith.  Thair  was  a  law  maid  aganis 
fornicatouris  and  adulteraris,^  that  the  ane  and  the  uther  suld 
be  cartit  throcht  the  townis,  and  so  banissit,  till  that  thair 
repentance  wes  offerit  and  receavit.  And  albeit  this  wes  nott 
the  severitie  of  Goddis  law,  especiallie  aganis  adulteraris,  yet 
wes  it  a  greit  brydill  to  malefactouris  ;  quhairat  the  wickit 
did  wonderouslie  storme.  It  chancit  that  ane  Sandersoun,  a 
fleschour,  wes  deprehendit  to  haif  put  away  his  lauchfull  wyffe, 
(under  cullour  that  he  was  lauchfullie  partit  efter  the  manor 
of  the  Papisticall  religioun,)  and  haid  takin  to  him  ane  uther 
in  [his]  housse.  The  complaynt  and  sclander  proponit  to  the 
Kirk,  and  tryall  takin  that  he  wes  nott  maryit  with  the  secuud 
woman,  nather  that  he  wes  able  to  prove  that  he  wes 
dcvorcit  by  any  ordour  of  law  from  the  first,  he  wes  committit 
in  the  handis  of  the  Magistratis,  quha,  according  to  the  lawis, 
commandit  him  to  be  cartit.  Bot  the  raschall  multitude,  en- 
flambit  be  some  ungodlie  craftismen,  maid  insurrectioun,  brake 

^  There  wei'e  several   Acts   against  Lyell,  to  be  continewit  quliill  the  morne : 

immorality  passed  about  this  time,  in  Quhilk  the  Provost,  Baillies,  and  Coun- 

Parliament,  and  in  the  Civil  as  well  as  sale  foresaid  grantit,  and  thairupouu 

Ecclesiastical   Courts.      One   of   these  the  said  William  askit  instrumentis." 

Acts  of  the  Town  Council  of  Edinburgh,  On   the  following   day  the   Council 

when  about  to  be  enforced  against  a  having  adhered  to  their  resolution  that 

delinquent  in  the  person  of  John  Sander-  the  sentence  against  Sanderson  should 

son,  Deacon  of  the  Fleshers,  led  to  the  be  carried  into  effect ;  this  was  so  much 

tumult  to  which  Knox  refers.     On  the  resented  by  the  craftsmen  of  the  town 

22d  November  1560,  "  The  quhilk  day  as  a  dishonour,  that  they  assembled  in 

the  Baillies   and  Counsale  being  con-  a  tumultuous    manner,  broke  up   the 

venit  in  the  Over  Counsale  House   of  prison,   and   set  him  at  liberty.     The 

the   Tolbuith   of   this   bur'.    Comperit  Magistrates   having  immediately  com- 

William  Hai-lay,  dekin  of  the  Hammar-  plained  to  the  Lords  of  the  Secret  Coun- 

men,  and  certane  uthir  craftismen,  and  cil,  several  persons  connected  with  this 

desyrit  the  dccreit  and  sentence  gcvin  tumult,    were    apprehended    and    im- 

aganis  Jhone  Sandersone,  dekin  of  the  prisoned  in  the  Castle  of  Edinburgh. 

Fleschouris,  decernying  him  to  be  cartit  There  are  several  entries  in  the  Town 

throuch  the  town,   and  thairafter  ba-  Council  Records  on  this  subject :    see 

nischit    the    samyn,    for   his   manifest  the  account  given  in  Maitland's  History 

ndulterie     committit    with     Margaret  of  Edinburgh,  p.  20. 


DOUR  FRA 
FRANC  F, 
AND  HIS 
DEMANDIS. 


156  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

the  carte,  boistit  the  officiaris,  and  tuke  away  the  malefactour. 
This  wes  the  begyning  of  farther  evillis,  as  we  will  efter  heir. 
In  the  meantyme,  quliill  Lord  James  (we  say)  wes  in 
AM^AssA-  France,  tliair  came  ane  Ambassadour  frome  France,!  subornit, 
na  doubt,  with  all  craft  that  mycht  truble  the  Estait  of  the  Reli- 
gioun.  His  demandis  wes  1.  That  the  league  betwix  us  and 
Ingland  suld  be  broken :  2.  That  the  ancient  league  betAvix 
France  and  Scotland  suld  be  renewit :  And,  3.  That  the 
Bischops  and  Kirkmen  suld  be  reponit  in  thair  formair  places, 
and  be  suiferit  to  intromet  with  thair  levingis.  The  Counsall 
delayit  answer  to  the  Parliament  appoyntit  in  May.  In  the 
meantyme  the  Papistis  of  Scotland  practisit  with  him.  The 
Erlis  of  Huntlie,  Atholl,  Bothwell,  and  utheris,  intendit  to 
haiff  takin  Edinburgh  befoir  the  said  Parliament.  The  haill 
Bischoj^pis  assemblit,  and  held  counsall  in  Striveling.  Some 
quhispering  thair  wes,  that  the  Duke  and  the  Bischop  of  Sanct- 
androis  were  too  familiare  ;  and  some  feared  that  the  aucto- 
ritie  of  the  Queue  suld  half  bene  usurpit,  be  ressone  of  her 
absence,  and  that  the  Duke  wes  secound  persone,  for  thairat 
haid  some  of  his  preissit  immediatlie  efter  the  death  of  the 
King  of  France.  The  Protestantis  thairof  advertised,  preventit 
thame,  and  came  to  Edinburgh.  The  Erie  of  Arrane  stude 
constant  with  his  brethrene.  Thair  war  some  that  cairfullie 
and  panefullie  travellit  that  nathing  prejudiciall  to  the  Quenis 
auctoritie,  suld  be  done  in  absence  of  the  Lord  James ;  to 
quhom  the  Queue  lies  reeompensit  evill  for  gude  service. 
Maister  James  Makgill,^  in  that  poynt  did  baith  stoutlie  and 

1  The   Ambassador   here   spoken   of  son  of  Sir  James  Makgill,  Provost  of 
was  Mons.  de  Noailles,  Master  of  Re-  Edinburgh. 

quests,  who  had  formerly  been  Ambas-  He  was  educated  at  St.  Andrews, 
sador  in  England.  (Hardwicke's  State  liaving  been  incorporated  in  St.  Leo- 
Papers,  vol.  i.  p.  157.)  He  arrived  on  nard's  College  in  1532.  He  probably 
the  11th  of  March,  and  returned  on  the  took  his  Master's  degree,  and  completed 
7th  of  June  1561.  (Diurnal  of  Occur-  his  studies  at  some  foreign  University, 
rents,  pp.  64,  282-3.)  On  the  1st  IMarch  1549-50,  he  was  ad- 

2  Mr.  James  Makgill  or  M'Gill,  eldest  niitted  an  Advocate.   On  the  25th  June 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  157 

treiilie  ;  for  Johne  Knox  and  he  war  tlian  fallin  in  familiaritie, 
in  quliilk  thay  yet  contineu,  20  Octobris  1567,^  be  ressone 
that  the  said  Maister  James  haid  embrasit  the  Religioun,  and 
professit  it  publiclie. 

The  Papistis  and  Bischoppis,  dissapoyntit  of  thair  principall 
purpose  and  interpryse  did  yet  mak  broillie  for  trouble ;  for  the 
raschall  multitude  war  stirred  up  to  mak  a  Robene  Hude/ 
quhilk  enormitie  wes  of  mony  yeiris  left  and  dampnit  by  statute 
and  act  of  Parliament.  Yit  wald  thay  nott  be  forbiddin,  bot 
wald  disobey  and  truble  the  Towne,  especiallie  upone  the  nycht. 
Quhairat  the  Baillies  offendit,  tuke  fra  thame  some  swerdis 
and  an  enseynze,  quhilk  wes  occasioun  that  thay  that  same 
nycht  maid  a  mutinye,  keippit  the  portis  of  the  towne,  and 
intendit  to  have  persewit  some  men  within  thair  awin  housses  ; 
bot  that,  upoun  the  restitutioun  of  thair  swerdis  and  enseynze, 
wes  stayit.  Bot  yit  thay  ceassit  nott  to  molest,  alsweill  the 
inhabitantes  of  Edinburgh  as  diverse  countrey  men,    taking 


1554,  he  was  advanced  to  be  Clerk-Re-  however,  to  abolish  long  continued  cus- 

gister ;  and  continued  to  be  employed  toms ;    and  complaints  to  the  General 

in  various  public   affairs.     He  joined  Assembly  for  their  continued   observ- 

the  Reformers,  but  on  account  of  his  ance  were  made  until  the  close  of  the 

concern  in  the  murder  of  David  Riccio,  16th  century.     Of  the  tumult  that  took 

9th  March   1566,   he  fled  from  Edin-  place   in   Edinburgh,    on   the   21st   of 

burgh,  and  his  situation  as  Clerk-Re-  June  1561,  a  very  minute  and  interest- 

gister  was  conferred  upon  Sir  James  ing  account  is  preserved  in  the  Diurnal 

Balfour.     Upon  a  vacancy,  in  December  of  Occurrents,  pp.  283-4. 
1567,  after  the  accession  of  the  Regent  Several    persons    were    brought    to 

Murray  to  power,  Makgill  was  restored,  trial  on  account  of  these  riots.     On  the 

and  he  continued  in   office   till  1577.  20th  July  1561,  Robert  Hannay,  smith, 

He  died  in  1579.     (Senators  of  the  Col-  and  nine  others  were  tried,  as  art  and 

lege  of  Justice,  p.  99.)  part  in  choosing  George  Durye  in  the 

2  This  date  occurs  in  the  text ;  and  month  of  April  last,  and  calling  him 

the  set  or  quire  in  this  place  was  no  Lord  of  Inobedience,  and  for  rioting  on 

doubt  transcribed  about  that  time.  Sunday  the  12th  May.     (See  Pitcairn's 

*  During  the  festivities  of  the  month  Criminal  Trials,  vol.  i.  p.  409.)     And 

of  May,  the  games  of  Robin  Hood  were  James  Eraser,  sadler,  and  five  others, 

attended  with   so  much  disorderly  li-  were  tried  on  the  8th  of  August,  on 

cense,  that  they  were   ordered  to  be  account  of  the  riots  in  the  month  of 

suppressed  by  an  Act  of  the  Scotish  July.     (lb.  p.  410.) 
Parliament  in  1655.     It  is  not  easy, 


lo8  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

frome  tliame  money,  and  tlireitnyng-  some  with  farder  injureis. 
Quliairwith  the  Magistratis  of  the  towne,  lieychtlie  offendit, 
tuke  mail-  diligent  heid  to  siiche  as  resortit  to  the  towne,  and 
so  apprehendit  ane  of  the  principall  of  that  misordour,  namit 
HIS  NAME  IS  Gillone,!  a  cordinare,  quhome  thai  put  to  ane  assisse ;  [and 
being  convicted,  for  he  could  not  be  absolved,]  2  (for  he  wes 
the  cheif  man  that  spoillit  Johnne  Mowbray  of  ten  crownis  of 
the  Sone,)  thai  thocht  to  have  execute  jugement  upone  him, 
and  so  erected  a  jebbete  beneath  the  Croce.  But,  quhidder  it 
came  by  pactioun  with  the  Provest  and  some  uther,  or  by  in- 
stigatioun  of  the  Craftismen,  quha  ever  liaif  bene  bent  too 
muche  to  mayntene  suche  vanitie  and  ryotousnes,  we  fullie 
knaw  nott,  but  suddandlie  thair  did  ryse  a  tumult ;  the  Tol- 
buyth  wes  brokin  up,  and  not  onlie  the  said  Gillone,  quho 
befoir  wes  dampnit,  wes  violentlie  takin  furth,  hot  also  all 
uther  malefactouris  wer  set  at  fredome  ;  the  jebbete  wes  pullit 
downe,  and  dispitfullie  brokin  ;  and  thairefter,  as  the  Provest 
and  some  of  the  Counsall  assemblit  to  the  Clerkis  ^  chalmer 
for  consultatioun,  the  liaill  rascall  [multitude]  bandit  to- 
gidder,  with  some  knawin  unhonest*  craftismen,  and  intendit 
invasioun  of  the  said  chalmer.  Quhilk  perceavit,  the  Provest, 
and  such  as  w^er  in  his  cumpany,  past  to  the  Tolbuyth,  suspect- 
ing nothing  that  thai  wald  haif  bene  sa  enragit  that  thai  wald 
mak  new^  persute,  efter  that  thai  had  obtenit  thair  intent : 
Bot  thai  wer  suddandlie  deceavit,  for  from  the  Castelhill  thai 
come  with  violence,  and  with  stanis,  gunnis,  and  such  uther 
weaponis  as  thai  had,  began  to  assault  the  said  Tolbuyth,  ran 
at  the  dure  of  it,  quhilk  that  parte  by  stanis  cast  from  above, 
and  partlie  by  a  pystoll  schott  by  Robert  Norwell,  quhilk  hurt 
ane  Twedy,  thai  wer  repulsit  [fra  the  door]  ;  bot  yit  ceassit 

1  InMS.  G,  "Kyllone:"  Vautr.  edit.  ^  The  words   enclosed   in  brackets, 

makes  the  name  "  Balon."      In    the  omitted  in  MS.  1506,  are  supplied  from 

Diurnal    of  Occurrents,    he  is   called  MS.  G. 

James  Killone  and  Kellone,  at  p.  05,  but  ''  Alexander  Guthrie,  city  clerk. 

James  GiUoun  and  Gillone,  at  p.  283.  '  In  MS.  G,  "  and  honest  " 


15(51.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  1;V.) 

not  thai  to  cast  and  schute  in  at  tlic  wyndowis,  threitnyng 
deitli  to  all  that  war  within.  And  in  verray  deid  the  malice 
of  the  craftismen,  quho  wer  suspectit  to  be  the  occasioun  of 
that  tumult,  bare  na  gude  will  to  dyvers  of  thame  that  wes 
with  the  Provost. 

The  arguraentis  that  the  Craftis  wer  the  caus  of  that  up- 
roire,  besydis  thair  first  misordour  that  thai  haid  usit  befoir, 
in  tackin  Sandersoun  from  the  exectioun  of  punishment,  are 
twa.  The  formar,  Archibald  Dewar,  Patrik  Schange,  with 
uther  five  deaconis  [of  the  craftis]  come  to  Johnne  Knox,  and 
willit  him  to  solist  the  Provest  and  the  towne  to  delay  the 
executioun  :  quho  did  answer,  "  That  he  haid  sa  oft  solistit  in 
thair  favouris,  that  his  awin  conscience  accusit  him,  that  thai 
usit  his  labouris  for  na  uther  end,  bot  to  be  a  patrone  to 
thair  impietie."  For  he  haid  befoir  maid  intercessioun  for 
William  Harlaw,  James  Frissall,  and  utheris,  that  wer  convict 
of  the  formare  tumult.  Thai  proudlie  said,  "  That  gif  it  was 
not  stayit,  bayth  he  and  the  Baillies  suld  repent  it."  Quhair- 
to  he  answerit,  "  He  wald  not  hurt  his  conscience  for  ony 
feir  of  man."  And  sa  thai  departit  ;  and  the  tumult  (as  said 
is)  immediatlie  thairefter  did  aryse.  The  secund  argument 
is,  the  tumult  continewit  fra  twa  at  efter  none  till  efter 
audit  at  nycht.  The  Craftismen  wer  requyrit  to  assemble 
them  selfis  togidder  for  deliverance  of  thair  Provest  [and 
Baillies]  ;  bot  thai  past  to  thair  foure  houris  penny,  and  in 
thair  jesting  said,  "  Thai  will  be  Magistratis  allone,  latt 
thame  reule  the  multitude  allone."  And  sa,  contrair  to  the 
ayth  that  thai  haid  maid,  thai  denyit  thair  assistance,  counsall, 
and  conforte  to  thair  Provest  and  Baillies  ;  quhilk  ar  argu- 
mentis  verray  probable,  that  the  said  tumult  raise  by  thair 
procurement.     The  end   heirof  was,   that   the   Provest  ^    and 

1  Archibald  Douglas   of  Kilspindie,  1562,  Douglas  was  again  chosen  Provost 

filled  the  office  of  Provost  of  Edinburgh  of  the  City.     (Maitlaud's  Hist,  of  Edin- 

in  the  year  1561.   By  a  special  mandate  burgh,  p.  24.) 
from  Queen  Mary,  dated  21st  August 


or  THE 
QUKNE  EE- 
GENTIS 
BURIALL. 


160  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

Baillles  wer  compellit  to  gif  thair  liandwrittis,  that  thai  suld 
never  perseu  ony  of  thame  that  war  of  that  tumult,  for  ony 
cr^mie  that  wes  done  in  that  behalf  And  this  wes  proclamet 
at  the  Croce  efter  nyne  houris  at  nycht  ;  and  sa  that  truble 
quyetted.  Bot  the  Nohilitie  avowit,  that  thai  suld  not  spare 
it ;  and  sa  a  greit  nomber  of  that  factioun  war  absent  frome 
the  towne,  till  the  arryvall  of  the  Queue.  The  haill  multitude 
wer  haldin  excomunieat,  and  war  admittit  to  no  participatioun 
of  the  sacramentis,  unto  suche  tyme  as  thai  satisfied  the  Ma- 
gistratis,  and  maid  humble  sute  unto  the  Kirk. 

Off  the  deith  of  the  Queue  Regent,  we  haif  befoir  spokin,! 
but  of  hir  buriall  wes  nothing  herd ;  and  it  may  appeir  that 
suche  matteris  are  unworthy  of  remembrance.  Bot  and  gif  all 
thingis  salbe  lychtlie  weyit,  we  sail  perceave  Goddis  just  juge- 
mentis,  how  secreit  that  ever  thai  be.  Befoir,  we  herd^  the 
barbarous  inhumanitie  that  wes  usit  at  Leyth  by  the  Frenche, 
quha  exponed  the  naked  carcasis  of  the  slane,  as  it  war  in  a 
spectacle,  dispiting  God.  We  herd,  that  this  Queue  Regent  re- 
josit  at  the  sycht ;  bot  hir  joy  was  suddandlie  turned  in  sorrow, 
as  we  haif  herd.  The  questioun  wes  moved  of  hir  buriall. 
The  Precheouris  boldlie  ganestude,  that  ony  superstitious  rytes 
suld  be  usit  within  that  Realme,  quhilk  God  of  his  mercy 
had  begun  to  purge.  And  sa  conclusioun  wes  takin,  that  hir 
buriall  suld  be  deferred  till  farther  advisement ;  and  sa  scho 
wes  lappit  in  a  cope  of  leid,  and  keipit  in  the  Castell,  fra  the 
nynt  of  Junij,^  unto  the  nyntene  of  October,  quhen  scho  by 
pynouris  wes  caryed  to  a  schip,  and  sa  caryed  to  France. 
Quhat  pompe  wes  usit  thair,  we  nather  herd  nor  yit  regard. 
Bot  in  it  we  se,  that  scho  that  delited  that  utheris  lay  without 
buryall,  gat  it  nether  sa  sone,  as  scho  hir  self  (gif  scho  haid 

^  See  supra,  page  71.  others  say  the  morning  of  the  11th: 

2  iij,  page  68.  See  notices  of  the  Queen's  death  and 

3  The  10th  of  July  is  the  day  usually  funerals  in  the  Appendix  to  the  present 
assigned  for  the  Queen  Regent's  death :  volume. 


1.5fil.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  161 

bene  on  the  counsall  in  hir  lyff )  wald  liave  requyred  it,  nather 
yit  sa  honorable  in  this  realme,  as  sometymes  scho  lukit  for. 
It  may  chance  be  a  prognostication  tliat  the  Guisians  blude 
can  nocht  haif  hxng  rest  within  tliis  Rcahne. 

The  Papistis,  a  little  befoir  the  Parliament,  resorted  in  di- 
verse bandis  to  the  towne,  and  began  to  brag,  as  that  thai  wald 
haif  defaced  the  Protestantes.  Quhilk  thing  perceaved,  the 
brethrein  assemblit  togidder,  and  yeid^  in  such  cumpanyes, 
and  that  in  peciable  maner,  that  the  Bischoppis  and  thair 
bandis  forsuyk  the  calsay.  The  brethrene  understanding 
■quhat  the  Papistis  meant,  convenit  in  counsall  in  the  Tolbuyth 
of  Edinburght,  the  xxvij  of  May,  the  yeir  of  God  J™  V  thre 
scoir  and  ane  yeir  ;  and  efter  consultatioun,  concludit,  that  ane 
humble  Supplicatioun  suld  be  presentit  unto  the  Lordis  of^ 
Secreit  Counsall,  and  unto  the  haill  assemblie,  that  then  wes 
convenit,  in  the  quhilk  suld  tliir  subsequent  heidis  be  required, 
and  a  law  to  pas  thairupoun. 

First,  That  Idolatrie,  and  all  monumentis  thairof,  suld  be 
suppressit  throwout  the  haill  realme ;  that  the  sayaris,  heiraris, 
mayntenaris,  and  usaris  of  the  Messe,  suld  be  punischit  accord- 
ing to  the  Act  of  Parliament,  as  said  is. 

2.  That  speciall  and  certane  provisioun  be  maid  for  the  sus- 
tentatioun  of  the  Superintendentes,  Ministeris,  Exhorters,  and 
Readers.  That  Superintendentes  and  Ministeris  suld  be 
planted  quhair  nane  war.  That  punyschment  suld  be  appoint- 
ed for  suche  as  dissobeyid  or  contemned  the  Superintendentes 
in  thair  functioun. 

8.  That  punischment  may  be  appoynted  for  the  abusaris  of 
the  sacramentis,  and  for  the  contempnaris  of  the  same. 

4.  That  na  letteris  of  the  Sessioun  be  gevin  to  answer  or 
pay  to  ony  persoun  thair  teyndis,  without  especiall  provisioun, 
that  the  parrochinaris  retene  sa  mekle  in  thair  awin  handis, 

'  In  Vautr.  edit,  and  MS.  G,  "  and  went.'" 


162  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

as  is  appoynted  to  the  ministrey  ;  and  that  all  suche  as  ar 
ellis  gevin  be  called  in,  and  dischargit ;  and  lykewise  that  na 
Schireffis  gif  preceptis  to  that  effect. 

5.  That  nather  the  Lordis  of  Sessioun,  nor  ony  uther  Jugis, 
proceid  upone  suche  preceptis  or  warnyngis,  past  at  the  in- 
stance of  thame  that  of  lait  haif  ohtenit  fewis  of  vicaragis,  and 
personagisji  manses,  and  kirkyardis ;  and  that  sex  aikkeris  (gif 
so  muclie  thairbe)  of  tlie  gleib,  be  alwayis  reserved  to  the  mi- 
nister, according  to  the  appointment  of  the  Buke  of  Discip- 
lyne  ;  and  that  everie  minister  may  haif  letteris  thairupoun. 

6.  That  na  letteris  of  the  Sessioun,  nor  [any]  utheris  talc 
place,  quhill  the  stipendis  contened  in  the  Buke  of  Discip- 
lyne,  for  sustentatioun  of  the  ministeris,  be  first  consignat  in 
the  handis,  at  the  leist,  of  the  principallis  of  the  parochinaris. 

7.  That  punischement  be  appoyntit  aganis  sik  as  purchess, 
bringis  hame,  or  executis  "vvithin  this  Realme,  the  Paipis  Bullis. 

The  tennour  of  the  Supplicatioun  wes  this  : — 

Pleis  your  Honouris,  and  the  wisdomes  of  suche  as  ar  heir 
presentlie  convenit  with  yow  in  Counsall,  to  understand,  that 
by  mony  argumentis  we  pcrceave  quhat  the  pestilent  genera- 
tioun  of  that  Romane  Antichrist  within  this  Healme  pre- 
tendis ;  to  wit,  that  thai  wald  of  i\ew  erect  thair  idolatrie,  tak 
upone  thame  to  impyre  abufe  our  conscience,  and  so  to  com- 
mand us,  the  trew  subjectis  of  this  Realme,  and  suche  as  God 
of  his  mercy  hes  (under  our  Soverane)  subjected  unto  us,  in  all 
thingis  to  obey  thair  appetitis.  Honestie  cravis,  and  con- 
science movis  us,  to  mak  the  verray  secreittis  of  oure  hertis 
patent  to  youre  Honouris  in  that  behalf ;  quhilk  is  this,  "  That 
befoir  that  ever  thai  tyrantis  and  dumb  doggis  impyre  abufe 
us,  and  abufe  suche  as  God  hes  subjected  unto  us,  that  we  the 
Barronis  and  Gentilmen  professing  Christ  Jesus  within  this 
Realme,  ar  fullie  determined  to  hasard  lyffe,  and  quhatsoever 

'   In  ^ISS.  lo(;»),  G,  &c.,  find  V.-iutr.  edit.  "  porsonis." 


]rm.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  163 

wc  half  received  of  our  God  in  temporall  tliingis."  Most 
humblie  thairfoir  beseiking  your  Honouris,  tliat  suclie  ordour 
may  be  takin,  that  we  haif  nott  occasioun  to  tak  agane  the 
swerd  of  just  defence  into  oure  handis,  quhilk  we  haif  willing- 
lie  (efter  that  God  hes  gevin  victorie,  bayth  to  your  Honouris 
and  us)  resignit  ovir  in  your  handis ;  to  the  end,  that  Goddis 
Evangell  may  be  publiklie  within  this  Realme  preached ;  the 
trew  Ministeris  thairof  resonabillie  sustened ;  Idolatrie  sup- 
pressed, and  the  committaris  thairof  punissit,  according  to 
the  lawes  of  God  and  man.  In  doing  whairof,  your  Honouris 
sail  find  us,  nott  onlie  obedient  unto  yow  in  all  thingis  laucli- 
full,  but  also  reddy  at  all  tymes  to  bring  under  ordour  and 
obedience,  suche  as  wald  rebell  aganis  your  just  authoritie, 
quhilk,  in  absence  of  our  Soverane,  we  acknawlege  to  be  in 
your  handis.  Beseiking  your  Honouris,  with  uprycht  juge- 
ment  and  indifferencie,  to  luyk  upone  thir  oure  few  Articles, 
and,  by  thir  oure  brethrein,  to  signifie  unto  us  suche  answer 
agane,  as  may  declair  your  Honouris  worthy  of  that  jDlace, 
quhairunto  God  (efter  some  dangeris  sustened)  in  his  mercy 
hes  called  yow.  And  lett  thir  ennemeis  of  God  assure  thame- 
selfis,  that  gif  your  Honouris  put  nocht  ordour  unto  thame, 
that  we  sail  schortlie  tak  suche  ordour,  that  thai  salbe  nather 
abill  to  do  quhat  thai  list,  nather  yit  to  leif  upone  the  sweit 
of  the  browis  of  suche  as  ar  na  debteris  unto  thame.  Lett 
your  Honouris  conceave  na  thing  of  us,  bot  all  humble  obe- 
dience in  God.  Bott  let  the  Papistis  be  yitt  anys  agane  as- 
sured that  tliair  pryid  and  idolatrie  we  will  not  suifer. 

(Directed  fra  the  Assemblie  of  the  Kirk,  the  28thi  of  Maij 
1561,   and   send   by   thir   brethrein,^    the  Maister  of  Linde- 

1  In  ]\ISS.  1566,  G,  &c.  "  the  18."  ceeded  to  the  title  of  Lord  Lindsay  of 

Vautr.    edit,    gives    the   correct   date,  BjTes,  on  his  father's  death  in  1563 ; 

"  28th  :"  see  next  page,  note  4.  (2.)  John  Gordon  of  Lochinvar,  in  Kii-k- 

^  The  persons  who  formed  this  depu-  cudbrightshii-e;  (3.)  AndrewKer  ofFar- 
tation  from  the  General  Assembly  to  nihurst,  in  Roxburghshire,  ancestor  to 
the  Lords  of  Secret  Council,  were,  (1.)  the  Earls  of  Lothian;  (4.)  William  Doug- 
Patrick  Master  of  Lindosay,  who  sue-  las  of  Whittingham,  in  East  Lothian,  a 


164  rriE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

say,  the  Laird  of  Locliinvaiv^  the  Laird  of  Pharnyhirst,  the 
Laird  of  Quhittingham,  Thomas  Menzies  Provest  of  Abirdene, 
and  George  Lowell  biirges  of  Dundee.) 

Upone  the  quhilk  requeist  and  Articles,  the  Lordis  of  Coun- 
sall  foirsaid  maid  ane  act  and  ordinance  answering  to  everie 
heid  of  the  foirsaid  Articles,^  and  commandit  letteris  to  he 
answerit  thaimpon,  quhilk  diverse  ministeris  raysit,  as  in 
the  buykis  of  Secreit  Counsall  is  yit  to  be  found.  And 
thus  gat  Sathan  the  secund  fall,  efter  that  he  haid  begun  to 
truble  the  estait  of  the  religioun,  ones  establissit  by  law.  His 
first  assault  wes  by  the  raschall  multitude,  opponying  thame 
selfis  to  the  punischement  of  vice  :  The  secound  wes,  by  the 
Bischoppis  and  thair  bandis,  in  quhilk  he  thocht  uterly  to 
half  triumphit  ;  and  yit  he  in  the  end  prospered  wer^  then 
ye  half  herd. 

For  in  this  meyntyme,  returnit  fra  France  the  Lord  James,^ 

grandson  of  James  second  Earl  of  Alor-  every  head  of  the  said  Articles  and 

ton,  and  afterwards  one  of  the  Senators  Supplicatioim,  at  length  specified  in  the 

of  the  College  of  Justice  ;  (5.)  Thomas  Act  of  Secreit  Counsell  made  therupon ; 

Menzies  of  Pitfoddellis,  who  was  Provost  whilk  is  to  be  had  in  the  hands  of  John 

of  Aberdeen,  from  1547  to  1576,  without  Johnstone,  scrybe  therof,   and  letters 

interruption;   and,  (6.)  George  Lovell,  and  publicatioun  past  therupon." 
burgess  of  Dundee,  Avhose  name  has  al-  ^  In  MS.  G,  &c.  "  prosperit  worse." 

ready  occurred  in  Knox.  *  Lord  James  Stewart  (see  page  142, 

*  In  MS.  1566,  "  the  Lard  of  note  3.)  Queen  Mary,  in  a  letter  to 
Low'lewin."  Throkmorton,  dated  at  Nancy  22d  April 

*  According  to  the  "  Booke  of  the  1561,  declai-es  that  Lord  James  who 
Universall  Kirk  of  Scotland,"  contain-  was  then  with  her,  had  come  without 
ing  the  Acts  and  Proceedings  of  the  any  special  mission  :  "  Quant  a  Lord 
Assembly,  the  meeting  was  held  on  the  James  qui  est  devers  moy,  il  y  est  venue 
26th  of  May ;  and  the  persons  above-  pour  son  devoir,  comme  devers  sa  sou- 
named  were  appointed  on  the  28th  to  veraine  Dame,  que  je  suis,  sans  charge 
present  the  Supplication  and  Articles  ou  commission  qui  concerne  autre  chose 
"  tuitching  the  Suppressioun  of  Idola-  que  son  droit."  She  was  anxious  he 
trie."  The  result  of  the  application  is  should  not  return  through  England  ; 
thus  recorded : —  and  there  can  be  no  doubt,  his  conduct 

"  Upoun  the  whilk  Supplicatioun,  Ar-  was  too  much  influenced  by  the  English 

tides  and  sute  thairof  was  grantit,  and  Court.     See  the  letters  quoted  by  Mr. 

followit  be  the  Lords  of  Secreit  Conn-  Tytler,  vol.  vi.  pages  218  to  225.   Lord 

sell,  and  Act  and  Ordinance  thairupon,  James  returned  from  France  before  the 

with   letters    therupon,    answering   to  end  of  May  1561.     The  Diurnal  of  Oc- 


15G1.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  165 

qulia,  besyid  Lis  g-reit  expensis,  and  the  lose  of  ane  box 
quliairin  wes  his  secreit  poise,  eschapit  a  desparit  danger  in 
Pareise  :  for,  his  returnyng  from  our  Soverane  (quha  then  lay 
with  the  Cardinall  of  Lorane  at  Reims)  understood 7  of  tlie 
Papistis  at  Pareise,  tliai  haid  conspired  some  tresonable 
act  aganis  him ;  for  thai  intendit  ather  to  besett  his  hous  by 
nycht,  or  ellis  to  have  assaulted  him  and  his  company  as  thai 
Avalkit  ujioun  the  streittis.  Quhairof  the  said  Lord  James 
advertist  by  the  Ryngrave,^  by  ressone  of  auld  familiaritie 
quhilk  wes  betwix  thame  in  Scotland,  he  tuke  purpoise  sud- 
denlie  and  in  gude  ordour  to  depart  from  Pareise ;  as  that  he 
did,  the  secund  day  efter  that  he  arrived  thair.  And  yit  culd 
he  not  depart  sa  secreitlie,  hot  that  the  Papistis  haid  thair 
prevy  ambusches ;  for  upone  the  Pont  of  Change^  thai  haid 
prepared  ane  processioun,  quhilk  met  the  said  Lord  and  his 
cumpany  evin  in  the  teith ;  and  knawing  that  thai  wald  not 
do  the  accustumat  reverence  unto  thame  and  thair  idolis,  thai 
thocht  thairupone  to  half  picked  a  quarrell ;  and  sa  as  ane 
part  passed  by,  without  moving  of  hatt  to  ony  thing  tliat  wes 

currents  (p.  283)  has  the  19th  of  May ;  noiiillac,  the  widow  of  Charles  Seigneur 

but  according  to  a  letter  quoted  by  Mr.  de  Crussol,  Vicomte  d'  Uz^s.    (Anselme, 

T^tler,  it  appears  that  Lord  James  was  Hist.  Geneal.  vol.  iii.  p.  768.)     In  De- 

in  London  on  the  20th  of  that  month,  cember  1562,  "  the  Rhyngrave  lost  four- 

but  had  reached  Edinburgh  on  the  3d  score  of  his  horsemen,"  or,  "  reisters," 

of  June.     (History,  vol.  vi.  p.  22-5.)  wlien  Harfieur  was  taken  by  the  Eng- 

'  In  MS.  1566,    "  at   Reins)  under-  lish.    (Wright's  Queen  Elizabeth,  vol.  i. 

stand."  pp.  119-120.) 

*  The  Count  Rheingi-ave  had  the  com-  "  In  MS.  G,  "  upon  the  Change-brig ;" 
mand  of  the  German  troops  which  Vautrollier's  edition  makes  it,  "  upon 
formed  one  of  the  divisions  of  the  French  the  point  of  cliange."  The  place  re- 
forces  sent  to  Scotland  in  1548.  He  ferred  to  was  the  principal  bridge  in 
distinguished  himself  at  the  sieges  of  Paris,  across  the  river  Seine,  formerly 
Haddington  and  Dundee.  (Lesley's  His-  known  as  the  Grand  Pont.  It  takes  its 
tory,  pp.  206,  207,  219,  223.)  He  re-  name,  Pout  an  Chanijc,  from  the  chan- 
turned  to  France  in  1549,  but  it  seems  geurs  or  money-brokers  who  resided 
doubtful  whether  he  again  visited  tliis  there,  so  early  as  the  12th  century ; 
country.  He  appears  to  have  settled  but  the  houses  upon  the  bridge  were 
in  France.  John  Philip  Rheingrave,  finally  removed  in  1788,  by  order  of 
Count  Palatine  of  the  Rhine,  before  Louis  XVI. 
1554,  married  an  heiress,  Jean  de  Ge- 


166  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

thair,  thai  baid  suborned  some  to  ciye  "  Hugenottis/'  and  to 
cast  stanis.  Bot  God  disapoynted  tbair  interpiyse  ;  for  tbe  said 
Ryng-raife,  with  otber  gentilmen,  being  with  tbe  Lord  James, 
rebuykit  tbe  fuliscbe  multitude,  and  over  raid  some  of  tbe 
formaist ;  and  sa  tbe  rest  war  dispersit ;  and  be  and  bis  cum- 
pany  saiflie  escbapit,  and  come  witb  expeditioun  to  Edinburgh, 
qubill  that  yit  tbe  Lordis  and  assemblie  wer  togitber,  to  the 
greit  comfort  of  many  godlie  hertis,  and  to  na  Utile  astonische- 
ment  of  tbe  wicked :  for,  fra  the  Quene  oure  Soverane  be 
brocht  letteris  to  tbe  Lordis,  praying  tbame  to  intertenye 
quyetnes,  and  to  suffer  na  thing  to  be  attemptit  aganis  the 
Contract  of  peace  qubilk  wes  maid  at  Leytb,  till  her  awin 
hame-cuming,  and  to  suffer  the  religioun  publictlie  establissit 
to  go  fordward,  &c.  Qubairupone  tbe  saidis  Lordis  gaif  answer 
to  the  Frenche  Ambassadour,  a  negaty\'e  to  everie  ane  of  his 
petitiouns.^ 

And  First,  That  France  baid  not  deserved  at  tbair  bandis,- 
that  ather  thai  or  tbair  posteritie,  suld  enter  witb  tbame  agane 
in  ony  league  or  confideraeie,  offensive  or  defensive,  seying 
that  sa  tratrouslie  and  crewallie,  thai  baid  persecuted  tbame, 
thair  Realme  and  liberteis,  under  pretense  of  amitie  and 
manage, 

Secundlie,  That  besydis  thair  conscience,  thai  culd  not  tak 
suche  a  warldlie  scheme,  as  without  offence  committit,  to  broke 
tbe  league,  qubilk  in  Goddis  name  thai  baid  maid  witb  tbame, 
qubom  he  baid  maid  instrumentis  to  set  Scotland  at  fredome 
from  the  tyranny  of  tbe  Frenche,  at  tbe  leist  of  the  Guisians 
and  thair  factioun. 

And  last,  That  suche  as  thai  callit  Biscboppis  and  Kirkmen, 
thai  knew  natber  for  pastouris  of  the  Kirk,  nather  yit  for 
ony  just  possessouris  of  tbe  patrimonye  thairof ;  bot  under- 
stude  tbame  perfitlie  to  be  wolves,  theaves,  murtheraris,  and 
idill-belleis :    And  thairfoir,    as    Scotland   baid   forsakin   the 

'  Sec  supra,  page  156. 


15G1. 


THPJ  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


Pajjc  and  Papistrie,  sa  culd  thai  not  be  debttouris  to  liis  fore- 
sworne  vassallis. 

With  tliir  answeris  departit  the  said  Anibassadour.i  And 
the  Lordis  of  Secreit  Counsall  maid  ane  act,  that  all  places 
and  monumentis  of  ydolatrie  suld  be  destroyit,^  And  for  that 
purpose  Aves  directed  to  the  West,  the  Erie  of  Arrane,  having 
joyned  with  him  the  Erlis  of  Argyle  and  Glencarne,  togidder 
with  the  Protestantes  of  the  West :  quha  burnt  Paislay,^  (the 
Bischope  [of  Sanctandrois,  quha  was  Abbot  thareof,^]  narrow- 


^  Monsieur  tie  Nouailles  left  Edin- 
burgh on  the  7th  June  1561.  (Diurnal 
of  Occurrents,  p.  64.) 

-  As  Knox  has  enjoyed  more  than  his 
full  share  of  credit  for  destroying  the 
ecclesiastical  buildings  of  this  country, 
I  may  be  permitted  to  call  the  reader's 
attention  to  Dr.  M'Crie's  remai-ks  on  the 
"  Alleged  Excesses  of  the  Reformers," 
in  his  notes  to  the  Life  of  Knox,  vol.  ii. 
pages  450-456.  But  it  might  not  be  difiS- 
cult  to  show  that  the  actual  devasta- 
tions committed  by  the  Reformers  have 
been  greatly  exaggerated.  The  object 
they  had  in  view  was  not  to  destroy 
the  buildings,  but  to  remove  objects  of 
idolatrous  worship  and  superstition. 
It  should  also  be  remembered,  that  the 
revenues  appropriated  for  keeping  such 
buildings  in  repair,  being  diverted  to 
other  channels,  these  large  and  imposing 
edifices,  more  suited  for  the  services  of 
the  Romish  Chiu'ch  than  the  simpler 
forms  of  Presbyterian  worship,  were  al- 
lowed to  fall  into  utter  ruin.  When 
portions  were  restored  to  serve  as  pa- 
rish churches,  this  was  too  often  done  but 
little  in  accordance  with  their  original 
richly  decorated  style  of  architecture. 

*  The  Monastery  of  Paisley,  in  the 
shii-e  of  Renfrew,  was  not  wholly  de- 
stroyed, as  the  nave  of  the  church,  with 
its  aisles,  remain  ver}'  entire,  and  have 


continued  to  be  used  as  the  collegiate 
church  of  the  Abbey  Parish. 

■•  The  words  inclosed  within  bi'ackets, 
omitted  in  the  MS.  1566,  and  in  Vautr. 
edit.,  are  supplied  from  MS.  G. — In  vol. 
i.  p.  124,  it  is  mentioned,  that  John  Ha- 
milton, who  afterwards  became  Arch- 
bishop of  St.  Andrews,  had  obtained  the 
Abbacy  of  Paisley  in  the  year  1525. 
In  1544,  he  proposed  to  resign  Paisley 
to  his  brother  James,  reser\'ing  to  him- 
self the  whole  fruits  of  the  benefice,  with 
a  right  to  re-enter  to  it,  should  his 
brother  predecease  him.  (Epist.  Regimi 
Scot.  vol.  ii.  p.  212.)  This  arrange- 
ment probably  was  not  confirmed ;  as 
the  Abbot  eventually  resigned  the  Com- 
raendatorship  to  Lord  Claud  Hamilton, 
third  son  of  James  Duke  of  Chattel- 
herault.  This  appears  to  have  taken 
place  in  1553,  when  Lord  Claud  was 
aged  eleven  years ;  the  Archbishop  still 
acting  as  Administrator  in  spiritual  as 
well  as  temporal  matters,  till  the  Com- 
mendator  had  attained  the  age  of  twenty- 
three.  In  various  deeds,  so  late  as 
April  1565,  the  former  continued  to  be 
styled  "  John,  &c.  Ai'chbishop  of  Sanct- 
androis, Primat  and  Legat  of  the  haill 
Realme  of  Scotland,  and  Abbot  of  the 
Abbay  of  Pasley."  Lord  Claud  Ha- 
milton was  the  ancestor  of  the  Earls  of 
Abcrcorn. 


168  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

lie  escliapit,)  kest  doun  Failfurd,!  Kilwynnyng,^  and  a  part  of 
Corsragwell.^  The  Lord  James  wes  appointed  to  the  North, 
quhair  he  maid  sick  reformatioun,  as  nathing  contentit  the 
Erie  of  Huntlie,  and  yet  seemed  he  to  approve  all  thingis. 
And  thus  God  sa  potentlie  wrocht  with  us,  sa  lang  as  we  de- 
pendit  upone  him,  that  all  the  warld  mycht  se  his  potent  hand 
to  mayntene  us,  and  to  feght  aganis  oure  ennemeis ;  yea,  most 
to  confound  tliame,  quhen  that  thay  promest  to  tliame  selfis 
victory  without  resistance.  "  Oh  !  that  we  suld  rychtlie  con- 
sidder  the  wonderouse  werkis  of  the  Lord  oure  God." 

In  the  Treatye  of  Peace  contracted  at  Leyth,  thair  war 
contened  certane  heidis  that  requyred  the  ratificatioun  of  baith 
the  Quenis,  The  Quene  of  Ingland,  according  to  liir  promese, 
subscriptioun,  and  seill,  without  ony  delay  performit  the 
same,*  and  sent  it  to  oure  Soverane  by  hir  appoynted  offi- 
ciaris.  Bot  our  Soverane  (quhidder  because  hir  awin  craftie 
nature  thairto  moved  hir,  or  that  hir  Uncles  cheiff  counsal- 
louris  sa  wald,  we  knaw  not)  with  mony  delatouris  frustrat 
the  expectatioun  of  the  Quene  of  Ingland  ;  as  by  the  copy  of 
a  Letter,  sent  from  the  Ambassadour  of  Ingland  to  his  Sove- 
rane,^ we  may  understand. 

1  Only  some  inconsiderable  remains  ^  Sir  Nicholas  Throkmorton  : — His 
now  exist  of  the  Monastery  of  Failfurd,  correspondence,  addressed  to  Queen 
in  the  parish  of  Tarbolton,  Ayrshire.  Elizabeth  and  Secretary  Cecil,  whilst 

2  Some  portions  of  this  stately  build-  English  ambassador  at  the  Court  of 
ing  still  exist,  adjoining  the  Parish  France,  includes  much  curious  and  in- 
Church  of  Kilwinning.  teresting  matter  relating  to  Scotland. 

^  The  Abbay  of  Crossraguel,  in  the  See  in  particular  Dr.  Forbes's  Collection 

parish  of  Kirkoswald,  about  two  miles  of  State  Papers,  Lond.  1740, 1741,  2  vols, 

from  Maybole,  although  in  ruins,  is  pre-  folio  :    unfortunately  the  intermediate 

served  with  great  care,  and  is  more  en-  portion  of  his  Collections,   fi-om   May 

tire  than  any  other  monastic  building  15G0  to  July  15G2,  was  never  published. 

in  the  West  of  Scotland.  Throkmorton  returned  from  France  in 

*  The  Treaty  of  Leith,  as  already  no-  1564,  and  was  afterwards  sent  on  more 

ticed   at  pages  73-84,   was  ratified  by  than  one  occasion  to  Scotland.   He  was 

Queen  Elizabeth,  20th  September  1560:  made  Chamberlain  of  the  Exchequer; 

The  Ratification  is  printed  in  Rymer's  and  died  in  1570. 
Fcedera. 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  169 

At  Parcis,  the  xxiij  of  Junij  1561. 

"  The  xviij  of  this  present  Junij,  I  send  Sommer^  to  the 
Quene  of  Scottis  for  audience,  quha  appoyntit  me  to  come  to  hir 
the  same  day  efter  denner  ;  quhilk  I  did.  To  liir  I  did  [remem- 
ber] youre  Majesteis  hertlie  recommendations,  and  declarit 
unto  liir  your  Majesteis  lyik  glaidsomnes  of  hir  recoverye  of 
liir  lait  seikness,  quhais  want  of  helth,  as  it  wes  grevouse  unto 
youre  Majestic,  so  did  yow  congratulat  and  greitlie  rejoise  of 
the  gude  termes  of  helth  scho  wes  presentlie  in.  After  these 
offices,  I  put  hir  in  remembrance  agane  quhat  haid  passed 
from  tlie  begynning,  in  the  mater  of  youre  Majesteis  demand 
of  hir  ratificatioun,  according  to  the  proporte^  of  the  said 
Treatie,  alsweill  by  me  at  the  first,  as  efterwart  by  my  Lord 
of  Bedfurd  at  his  being  heir,  and  alsua  followed  sensyne  agane 
be  me  in  audience,  and  by  my  letter  to  hir  being  in  Lorane : 
adding  heirto  youre  Majesteis  farther  commandiment ;  and  re- 
charge to  me  agane,  presentlie  to  renew  the  same  demand,  as 
befoir  haid  bene  done."' 

The  said  Quene  maid  answer :  "  Monsieur  I'Ambassadour,  '^^«^Re. 
I  thank  the  Quene,  my  gude-sister,  for  this  gentle  visitatioun 
and  congratulatioun  of  this  my  recoverye ;  and  thocht  I  be 
not  yit  in  perfite  helth,  yit  I  thank  God  I  feill  my  self  in 
verray  gude  ^  in  the  cuming  to.  And  for  ansuer  to  youre  de- 
mand, (quod  sche,)  of  my  ratificatioun,  I  do  remember  all  thai 
thingis  that  yow  half  recited  unto  me  ;  and  I  wald  the  Quene,  ^^^'^^^'^'^ 
my  gude-sister,  suld  think  that  I  do  respect  the  res 
ansuer  in  this  mater,   and   performyng   thairof,   untill    suche 


RESPECTED 
THEM  FAR- 
THER THEN 

tyme  as  I  may  have  the  advyses  of  the  Noblis  and  Estaitis  of  Ierve'to"^ 

THY 

CDliRUFT 

AFFECTIONS. 


my  awin  Realme,  quhilk  I  trust  sail  not  be  lang  a  doing 

for  I  intend  to  mak  my  voyage  thither  schortlie.     And  thocht 

^  "  Mr.  Somer,"  or  Sommers,  was  a  'In  MS.  1566,  " propertie." 

confidential  agent  or  messenger  employ-  '  In  Vautr.    edit.    "  in  very  good 

ed  by  Cecil,  in  his  correspondence  with  health :"   MS.  G,  (omitting  the  words, 

the  English  Ambassadors  at  the  Court  "  I  thank  God,")   is  the  same  as  the 

of  France.  text. 


170  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

this  mater  (quod  scho)  dois  twiclie  me  i^rincipallie,  yit  dois  it 
also  twiche  the  Noblis  and  Estaitis  of  my  Realme  too ;  and 
thairfoir  it  salbe  meit,  that  I  use  thair  advyses  thairin. 
Heirtofoir,  thai  haif  semed  to  be  greved  that  I  suld  do  ony 
thing  without  tliame ;  and  now  thai  wald  be  mair  offendit 
gif  I  suld  proceid  in  this  mater  of  my  self,  without  thair  ad- 
vyses, I  do  intend  (quod  scho)  to  send  Monsieur  Dosell  l  to 
the  Queue  youre  Maistres,  my  gude-sister,  quho  sail  declair 
that  unto  hir  from  me,  that,  I  trust,  sail  satisfie  hir  ;  by  quhom 
I  will  gif  hir  to  understand  of  my  jurnay  into  Scotland.  I 
meyne  to  embarque  at  Calice.  The  King  lies  lent  me  certane 
sciio  MEST   galeis  and  schippis,  to  convoy  me  hame :  and  I  intend  to  re- 

SCHO  WALD     °  .  ,  . 

sEiK  A  sAiF  quyre  of  my  gude-sister  those  favouris  that  princes  usis  to  do 
« EVER  in  those  cases.  And  thocht  the  termes  quhairin  we  haif  heir- 
that\\ho  tofoir  [been],  lies  bene  some  quhat  hard,*  yet,  I  trust  that 
HIR  eVill    from  hensfurth  we  sail  accord  togidder  as  cousignes  and  gude 

WILL  ' 
GIF  F 
WALD    HAIF 


THIS   WES   A 

SECREIT 

LARDON. 


FRANCE  nychtbouris.     I  meyne  (quod  scho)  to  reteir  all  the  Frenche 
sTENiT     men  furth  of  Scotland,  quho  hes  gevin  jelose  to  the  Queue,  my 

THAM,   THAI                          .                                          .  1    .            .                                 x          Ml 

HAiDNOT     gude-sister,  and  miscontentment  to  my  subjectis  ;  so  as  i  will 

YIT  DEPAR- 

TIT.            leve  nathing  undone  to  satisfie  all  parties,  trusting  the  Queue, 

1  The  Seigneur  D'Oysel :  See  notes  iu  but  this  only  served  us  for  answer," 

vol.  i.  pp.  328  and  355.     Lord  Clinton,  &c.,  namely,  her  refusal  to  ratify  the 

in  a  letter  to  the  Earl  of  Sussex,  8th  Treaty  of  Peace.     It  is  added,  "  Monser 

August  1560,    mentions   that   D'Oysel  d'Oyzell  was  also   gently  requited   to 

and   Martigucs,    having  3500   French  returne  with  this  answer."     (Wright's 

soldiers  in  their   company,    had  then  Queen  Elizabeth,  vol.  i.  pp.  43,  62,  66.) 

landed  at  Calais,  on  their  return  from  Mr.  Tytler  has    shown,    that   D'Oysel 

Scotland.     Queen  Mary  had  purposed  "  was  altogether  unworthy  of  the  trust 

sending  him  again  to  Scotland  in  the  reposed  in  him,"  by  his  secret  commu- 

spring  of  1561.     from  lettei-s  of  the  nications  both  to  the  English  Ambassa- 

time  we  learn  he  was  not  expected  to  dor  and  Queen  Elizabeth.    (Hist.  vol.  vi. 

reach  Greenwich  before  the  8th  of  July,  p.  228.) 

and  Cecil  on  the  25th  of  that  mouth  ^  This  marginal  note  forms  part  of  the 

says,  "  Monser  d'Oyzell  came  from  the  text  in  MS.  G.     It  evidently  is  one  of 

Scottish  Quene,  with  request  that  the  those  remarks  of  the  author  which  form 

Queue  his  Mistress  might  have  a  salve  a  kind  of  running  commentary  by  Knox 

conduct  to  pass  alongst  our  sea  coast,  on  this  communicatiou.     They  are  con- 

and  hymself  to  pass  into  Scotland  to  tained  in  Vautrollier's  edition ;  but  not 

provide   for   her  coming.     Many   rca-  in  MS.  G,  with  the  exception  of  this  mar- 

snns  moved  us  to  myslikeher  passadgc,  ginal  addition. 


lo(51.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  171 

my  iiude-sister,  will  do  the  lyke,  and  that  from  hensfurth  none  thi';  secund 

'^     »  '  v'  5  SECREIT 

of  my  disobedient  suhjectis  (gif  thair  be  ony  suche)  sail  fynd  lakdon. 
ayd  or  supporte  at  hir  handis." 

I  answered,  "  That  I  was  noclit  desyrous  to  fall  in  the 
discours  how  those  hard  termes  first  beganne,  nor  by  quliat 
meanys  thai   wer  nurischit ;    becaus   thairin   I   most  charge  'J'"e  auwys 

.  .  .      ,         ,  OFINGLAND 

some  partie  with  injurie,  and  perrel  offered  to  the  Quene  my  y^R  usur- 
maistres,  quhilk  wes  the  verray  ground  of  those  materis :  Bot 
I  wes  Weill  assured  thair  culd  be  no  better  occasioun  oflfered 
to  put  the  formar  unkyndnes  in  forgetfulnes,  than  by  ratifye- 
ing  the  Treatie  of  Peace,  for  that  suld  repay  all  injureis  past. 
And  Madame,  (quod  I,)  quhair  it  plesis  yow  to  suspend  the 
Ratificatioun,  untill  yow  liaif  the  advyses  of  the  Nobles  and 
Estatis  of  youre  Realme,  the  Quene  my  maistres  dois  nothing- 
doubt  of  thair  conformitie  in  this  mater,  becaus  the  Treatie 
w^es  maid  by  thair  consentis." 

The  Quene  answered,  "  Yea,  by  some  of  thame,  but  not  by  your 
all.     It  will  appeir,  quhen  I  cum  amangis  thame,  quhidder  and  ouris 
thai  be  of  the  same  mynd  that  yow  say  thai  wer  than  of,  ^kactisit, 
[or  no  :]     Bot  of  this  I  assure  yow,  Monsieur  TAmbassadour,  d^vi"oun. 
(quod  scho,)  I,  for  my  parte,  am  verray  desyrouse  to  haif  the  scho"mycht 
perfite  and  the  assured  amitie  of  the  Quene,  my  gude-sister,  mJ^and 
and  will  use  all  the  meanis  I  can  to  geve  hir  occasioun  to  vlmTuji. 
think  that  I  meane  it  in  deid."  think  scho 

T  -1       ic   -MT      1  1  /-^  •  LYET  NOT. 

1  answei'ed,  Madame,  the  Quene  my  maistres,  yow  may 
be  assurit,  will  use  the  lyik  towardis  yow,  to  move  yow  to  be 
of  the  same  opinioun  towardis  hir." 

"  Than  (said  scho)  I  traist  the  Quene  your  maistres,  will  oF^Goo'fN 
not  support  nor  encurage  none  of  my  subjectis  to  continew  in  «"  helias 
thair  disobedience,  nor  to  tak  upone  thame  thingis  that  ap-  obedience 
pertene  not  to  subjectis." — [This  we  mon  answer  heir :  It  apper-  jesabell. 
tenis  to  subjectis  to  wirschip  God  as  he  hes  commandit,  and  to 
suppres  idolatrie,  by  quhomsoevir  it  be  erected  or  mayntoned.ji 

'  The  words  enclosed  within  bi'ackets  are  evidently  added  by  Knox. 


GOD  GEVIS 
HIS  LAW 
A  LS  WEILL 
TO  THE 
PRINCE  AS 
TO  THE 
SUBJECT. 


172  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

"  Yow  knaw,  (quod  sclio,)  tliair  is  moche  ado  in  my  Realme 
about  materis  of  religioun ;  and  tlioclit  tliair  be  a  greittar 
nomber  of  a  contrarie  religioun  unto  me  then  I  wald  tliair  war, 
yit  tliair  is  na  ressone  that  subjectis  suld  gif  a  law  to  thair 
Soverane,  and  speciallie  in  materis  of  religioun,  quhilk,  I 
feare,  (quod  scho,)  my  subjectis  sail  tak  in  hand." — [Answer 
for  the  parte  of  Scotland :  and  gif  sa  thai  liaid  done,  thai  haid 
eschapit  Goddis  indignatioun,  quhilk  hes  bene  felt,  and  still 
hingis  over  this  Realme,  for  the  idolatrie  and  other  abomina- 
tionis  committit  in  the  same,  quhilk  sail  not  ceise  till  that  it 
be  suppressit.]  l 

I  answerit,  "  Madame,  youre  realme  is  in  na  uther  caise  at 
this  day,  than  all  uther  realmes  of  Christiandome  ar  ;  the  j^i'ufe 
quhairof  you  see  verefied  in  this  realme :  and  you  see  quhat  grit 
difficultie  it  is  to  gif  ordour  in  this  mater,  thocht  the  King 
and  all  his  Counsall  be  verray  desyrouse  thairunto.  Religioun 
is  of  the  grittest  force  that  may  be.  You  haif  bene  lang  out 
of  your  awin  realme,  so  as  the  contrarie  religioun  to  youris  hes 
wone  the  upper  hand,  and  the  grittest  parte  of  youre  realme. 
Youre  Mother  wes  a  woman  of  greit  experience,  of  deip  dissi- 
mulatioun,  and  keipit  that  Realme  in  quyetness,  till  scho 
begane  to  constrained  menis  consciences  ;  and  as  you  think  it 
unmeit  to  be  constranit  by  your  subjectis,  so  it  may  lyk  you  to 
considder,  the  mater  is  also  intoUerabill  to  thame  to  be  con- 
straynit  by  you  in  materis  of  conscience  ;  for  the  dewtie  deu 
to  God  can  not  be  gevin  to  ony  uther  without  olfence  of  his 
Majestic."  "  Quhy,  (said  scho,)  God  dois  command  subjectis  to 
be  obedient  to  thair  Princes,  and  commandis  Princes  to  reid 
his  law,  and  governe  thairby  thame  selfis  and  the  peple  com- 
mittit to  tliair  chargis."  Answer,  "  Yea,  Madame,  (quod  I,)  in 
those  thingis  that  be  not  aganis  his  commandimentis."  "  Weill, 
(quod  scho,)  I  will  be  plane  with  you :  the  Religioun  that  I 
svFFr^R^    profess,  I  tak  to  be  maist  acceptable  to  God :    and,  in  deid, 


THE  CONSE- 

CRATIOUN 

OF  THE 

CARDINALL 

WILL  NOT 

SUFF 

YOW 


This  is  one  of  Knox's  additions.  *  In  MS.  G,  "  to  strayne.' 


E  THRIU 
LARDON, 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  173 

neither  do  I  knaw  nor  desire  to  knaw  any  uther.      Constancie 

dois  become  all  folkis  weill  ;   but  none  better  than  Princes, 

and  suche  as  have  reull  over  Realmes,  and  speciallie  in  materis 

of  Religioun."     [The  Turk  is  als  constant  in  his  Alcoram,  as  th 

the  Paip  and  his  sect  ar  in  his  constitutionis.]  i    "  I  haif  bene  ^jJ^lIn'^dof 

brocht  up,  (quod  scho,)  in  this  Religioun ;   and  quho  mycht  t^E^i^^'REm- 

creditt  me  in  ony  thing-  gif  I  suld  schaw  my  self  lyclit  in  this  *^^°^'^" 

case  ;  and  thocht  I  be  young  and  nott  weill  learned,  yitt  haif  I 

herd  this  mater  oft  disputed  by  my  Uncle  my  Lord  Cardinall, 

with  some  that  thocht  thai  could  say  somquhat  in  the  mater  ; 

and  I  fand  thairin  na  grit  ressone  to  change  my  opinioun." 

[Neather  yitt  did  Caiaphas,  quhen  Christ  Jesus  did  reassone  in 

his  presence :    Bot  quhat  wes  the  Cardinall  compelled  to  con- 

fesse  at  Poysie  ?]  2 

"  Madame,  (quod  I,)  gif  you  will  juge  weill  in  that  mater, 
you  mon  be  conversant  in  the  Scriptures,  quhilk  ar  the  tuich- 
stone  to  try  the  rycht  from  the  wrang.  Paradventure,  you 
ar  so  partiallie  affected  to  your  Uncle's  argument,  that  you  culd 
not  indiiferentlie  considder  the  uther  partie.  Yit  this  I  assure 
you,  Madame,  (quod  I,)  your  Uncle  my  Lord  Cardinall,  in  con- 
ference with  me  about  these  materis,  lies  confessed,  that  thair 
be  grit  errouris  and  abuses  come  into  the  Kirk,  and  grit  dis- 
ordour   in   the   Ministeris   and  Clargye  ;   insomuche  that  he  dot  the 

°''        '  .  DEVILL 

desyred  and  wisched  that  thair  mycht  be  a  reformatioun  of  "^'d  i'ut 

>'  "^  _  ORDOUR  TO 

the  ane  and  of  the  uther."     "  I  have  oftyne  tymes  hard  him  "i*'  self. 
say  the  lyik,"  (quod  scho.)     Than  I  said,  "  Weill,  I  trust  God 
will  inspyre  all  you  that  be  Princes,  that  thair  be  some  gude 
ordour  tackin  in  this  mater,  so  as  thair  may  be  one  unitie  in 
Religioun  throcht  all  Christiandome." 

"  God  grant,  (quod  scho,)  bot  for  my  parte,  you  may  per-  ^ 
ceave  I  am  none  of  those  that    will  change  my  Religioun, 
everie  yeir.     And,  as  I  tauld  you  in  the  begynnyng,  I  meyne 
to  constrane  none  of  my  subjectis,   bot  wald  wische  that  thai  quhM k' 

YIT  YE  HAIF 
PROFESSIT. 

'  &  -  These  words,  enclosed,  are  remarks  bv  Knox. 


CHANGE  IT 
NOT  BEFOIR 
-   YOW  HAVE 
FOR 
DANSING 
AND  HIR 
SISTER  IS 
THE  GROUND 
OF  THAT 


174  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

wer  all  as  I  am ;  and  I  trust  thai  suld  liaif  na  supporte  to 
constrane  me.  I  will  send  Monsieur  Dosell,  (quod  sclio,)  to 
you  befoir  he  go,  to  knaw  quhether  you  will  ony  thing  into 
Ingland.  I  pray  you,  so  ordour  yourself  in  this  mater,  betwix 
the  Queue  my  gud  sister  and  me,  that  thair  may  be  perfite 
and  sure  amitie  betwix  us  ;  for  I  knaw,  (quod  scho,)  Ministeris 
may  do  muche  gude  and  harme." 

I  tauld  hir,  "  I  wald  faithfullie  and  treulie  mak  deelaratioun, 
of  all  that  scho  haid  said  unto  me,  unto  your  Majestic ;  and 
trusted  that  scho  wald  so  satisfie  your  Majestie  by  Monsieur 
Dosell  in  all  thingis,  as  I  suld  heirefter  have  no  moir  occa- 
sionis  to  treatie  with  hir  of  ony  thingis  hot  of  the  encrease  of 
amitie."  Scho  said,  "  Thair  suld  be  no  want  thairin  on  hir 
behalf" 

"  This  is  the  effect  of  the  Queue  of  Scotlandis  answer  to  youre 
Majesteis  demand  of  hir  said  Ratificatioun,  and  of  my  negotia- 
tioun  with  hir  at  this  tyme." 

These  advertisementis  somewhat  exasperated  the  Queue  of 
Ingland,  and  nott  altogither  without  cause ;  for  the  amiys  of 
Ingland  wer  befoir  usurpit  by  oure  Soverane,  and  by  hir  hus- 
band Francis;  and  Elizabeth,  Queue  of  Ingland,  wes  of  the 
Gwysians  reputed  litill  better  then  a  bastard.  It  was  appoint- 
ed that  this  titill  suld  be  renuncit.  Bot  heirof  haid  oure 
proude  and  vane  glorious  Queue  no  plesour,  and  especiallie 
efter  that  hir  husband  was  deid ;  for,  thocht  scho,  the  to- 
luyke  of  Ingland^  sail  allure  mony  wowaris  to  me.  The 
Gwysians  and  the  Paipistis  of  baith  the  Realmes  did  not  a 
litill  animat  hir  in  that  persute ;  the  effect  quhairof  will 
sonar  appeir  then  the  godlie  of  Ingland  wald  desyre  :  And 
yit  is  scho  that  now  reigneth  ovir  thame,  neather  gude  Pro- 
testant, nor  yit  resolute  Papist :  Lat  the  warld  juge  quhilk  is 
the  thrid. 

'  In  Vaiitr.  edit..  "  tlic  slicw  of  England." 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  17'i 

Queyn  Elizabeth,"'  we  say,  offendit  with  the  former  ansueris, 
wrait  unto  the  Nobilitie  and  Estaittis  of  Scotland,  in  forme  as 
followls : — 

The  Quene  of  Inglandis  Letter  to  the 
Estaittis  of  Scotland. 
Rycht  trusty  and  rycht  enteirlie  belovit  Cousingis,  we  greit 
yow.  We  doubt  not,  bot  as  oure  menyng  is,  and  hes  bene 
alwayis  sithence  oure  regne,  in  the  sycht  of  Almichty  God, 
streycht  and  direct  towart  the  advancement  of  his  honour 
and  trewth  in  religioun,  and  consequentlie  to  procure  peace 
and  mayntene  concord  betwix  baith  thir  Realmes  of  Ingland 
and  Scotland ;  so  also  our  outwarde  actis  have  weill  declared 
the  same  to  the  warld,  and  speciallie  to  yow,  being  oure 
nychtbouris,  quho  have  taisted  and  proved  in  these  oure 
friendschip  and  ernest  gude  will,  mair  then  we  think  any  of 
youre  antecessouris  have  ever  receaved  from  hence  ;  yea,  moir 
then  a  greit  nomber  of  youre  selfis  culd  weill  houpe  of  us,  all 
former  examples  being  weill  weyit  and  considered.  And  this 
we  half  to  rejoise  of,  and  so  may  ye  be  glaid,  that  quhair,  in 
the  begynnyng  of  the  trublis  in  that  cuntrey,  and  of  our  suc- 
cours ment  for  yow,  the  jelosie,  or  rather  the  malice  of  di- 
verse, boith  in  that  Realme  and  in  uther  cuntreis,  wes  suche, 
boith  to  deprave  boith  us  in  the  yielding,  and  yow  in  requyr- 
ing  our  aide,  that  we  were  noted  to  have  meant  the  surprise  of 
that  Realme,  by  depryving  of  your  Soverane  the  Quene  of  hir 
croune,  and  yow  or  the  greittar  parte  of  yow  to  haif  in- 
tendit  by  our  succour  the  lyik  ;  and  atlier  to  prefer  some  other 
to  the  croune,  or  ellis  to  mak  of  that  monarchic  a  common- 
weill :  materis  verray  sclanderouse  and  false.  Bot  the  end 
and  determinatioun,  yea,  the  haill  course  and  process  of  the 

1  The  remark  on  Queen  Elizabeth,  in  edition ;  and  the  words  that  follow,  read, 
the  preceding  paragraph,  "  And  yet  is  "  Let  the  world  judge  whether  Queen 
scho,"  &c.,  is  omitted  in  Vautrollier's       Elizabeth,  we  say,"  &c.,  as  above. 


THE  PEACE 
CONTRACTIT 
AT  LEYTH. 


176  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

actioun  on  boitli  oure  partis  have  manifested,  boith  to  tlie 
sclanderaris,  and  to  all  utlieris,  that  no  thin^  wes  more  meant 
and  prosecuted,  then  to  establish  youre  Soverane  the  Quene, 
our  cousigne  and  sister,  in  hir  estait  and  crowne,  the  posses- 
sioun  quhairof  wes  in  tlie  handis  of  strangearis.  And  al- 
thocht  no  wordis  culd  then  weill  satisfie  the  malitious,  yit  our 
deids  do  declair,  that  no  uther  thing  wes  soucht,  but  the  re- 
stitutioun  of  that  Realme  to  the  auncient  libertie,  and,  as  it 
wer,  to  redeme  it  frome  captivitie.  Off  these  oure  purposes 
and  deidis,  thair  remanis,  amongis  uther  argumentis,  gude 
testimonye  by  a  solempne  treatie  and  accord,  maid  the  last 
yeir  at  Edinburgh,  by  Commissionaris  sent  boith  from  us  and 
from  your  Quene,  with  full  auctoritie  in  wryting,  under  boith 
our  handis,  and  the  Greit  Seills  of  boitli  oure  Realmes,  in  suche 
manor  as  uther  Princes,  oure  progenitouris,  have  alwayes  used. 
By  quhilk  treatie  and  accord,  eather  of  us  have  fuUie  accordit 
with  uther,  to  keip  gude  peace  and  amitie  betwix  oure  selfis, 
oure  countreis,  and  subjectis.  And  in  the  same  also  ane 
gude  accord  is  maid,  nott  onlie  of  certane  quarrellis  happened 
betwix  us,  bot  also  of  some  differences  betwix  the  Ministeris 
of  the  lait  Frenche  King,  your  Soveranis  husband,  and  yow 
the  Estaittis  of  that  Realme,  for  the  alteratioun  of  lawis  and 
customes  of  that  countrey  attemptit  by  thame.  Upone  quhilk 
accord  thair  maid  and  concludit,  lies  hitherto  followit,  as  yow 
knaw,  suyrtie  to  your  Soveranis  estait,  quyetnes  to  your  selfis, 
and  a  better  peace  betwix  boytli  Realmes,  then  ever  wes  herd 
of  in  any  tyme  past.  Nevertheless,  how  it  happeneth  we 
knaw  not,  [ — We  can :  for  scho  in  hir  consait  thinkis  hir  self 
Quene  of  boyth,]^  that  your  Soverane  eather  not  knawing  in 
this  parte  hir  awin  felicitie,  or  ellis  dangerouslie  seduced  by 
pen^erse  counsall,  quhairof  we  wald  be  most  sorye ;  being  of 
lait  at  sundry  tymes  requyred  by  us,  according  to  hir  Band 
remanying  with  us,  signed  with  hir  awin  hand,  and  sealled 

'  Evidently  a  remark  by  Knox. 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  177 

with  the  Greit  Seall  of  that  Realme,  and  allowed  by  vow  beino;  princes 

.  .  ,  LITILI,  RE- 

the  Estaittis  of  the  same,  to  ratifie  hir  said  Treatie,  in  like  g^rd  that. 
manor  as  we  by  wryting-  have  done,  and  ar  reddy  to  deliver  l 
it  to  hir,   [yet  she]  makketh  suche  delatorie  answeris  thair- 

I  THINK. 

into,  as  qiihat  v- e  sail  juge  thairof,  we  perseave  by  hir  answer,  this  sen- 
that  it  is  meit  to  requvre  of  yow.      For  althocht  scho  lies  manck.s 

■■•     "^  "^  BUT  I  WILL 

alwayis  answerit,    since  the    deith  of  hir    Husband,    that    in  ^^'tee  no 

•^  '  '  WORD. 

this  mater  scho  wald  first  understand  the  myndis  of  cer- 
tane  of  yow,  befoir  scho  wald  mak  answer ;  and  so  having 
now  of  long  tyme  susj^endit  oure  expectatioun,  in  the  end, 
nochtwithstanding  that  scho  hes  haid  conference  boyth  by 
messingeris,  and  by  some  of  your  selfis  being  with  hir,  yit 
scho  still  delayis  it,  alledgeing  to  oure  Ambassadour  in 
France  (qulio  said  that  this  Treatie  wes  maid  by  your  con- 
sentis)  it  was  not  by  consent  of  yow  all ;  and  so  wald  have 
us  forbeir,  unto  scho  sail  returne  in  that  hir  countrey.  And 
now  seing  that  hir  ansuer  dependis,  as  it  suld  seme,  by  hir 
wordis,  upone  your  opinionis,  we  can  nott  bot  planelie  latt 
yow  all  understand,  that  this  maner  of  ansuer,  without  some 
moir  frute,  can  nott  long  content  us.  We  have  meant  weill 
to  our  sister  your  Queue  in  tyme  of  offence  gevin  to  us 
by  hir.  We  did  planelie,  without  dissimulatioun,  charge  hir 
in  hir  awin  dowbtfull  estait :  quhylest  strangearis  possessit 
hir  Realme,  we  stayed  it  from  danger.  And  now,  having 
promissed  to  keip  gude  peace  with  hir,  and  you  hir  subjectis, 
we  have  hitherto  observed  it ;  and  salbe  sorye  gif  eather  scho 
or  yow  sail  geve  us  contrary  cause.  In  a  mater  so  profitable  to 
boyth  the  Realmes,  we  think  it  strange  that  your  Quene  hes 
no  better  advise :  and  thairfoir  we  do  requyre  yow  all,  being 
the  Estaittis  of  that  Realme,  upone  quhom  the  burthen 
resteth,  to  considder  this  mater  deiplie,  and  to  mak  us  ansuer 

^  In  MS.  G,  "  to  declair."  deficient  or  wanting  in  this  sentence, 

-  "  Manck,"  or  deficient;    that  is,  "  I  but  I  will  not  alter  one  word." 
think  (says  Knox)  there  is  something 

VOL.  II.  M 


178  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  III. 

quhaininto  we  may  tmst.  And  gif  yow  sail  think  meit  sclio 
sail  thus  leif  tlie  peace  imperfite,  by  breking  of  liir  solempned 
proraeis,  contrary  to  the  ordour  of  all  princes,  we  salbe  weill 
content  to  accept  your  ansuer,  and  salbe  als  cairless  to  see  the 
peace  keiDit,  as  ye  sail  gif  us  cause  ;  and  doubt  nott,  by  the 
grace  of  God,  bot  quhosoever  of  yow  sail  first  inclyne  thairto 
sail  soonest  repent.  Yow  must  be  content  with  oure  plane 
writing.  And,  on  the  uther  syid,  gif  yow  continew  all  of  one 
mynd  to  have  the  peace  inviolablie  keipit,  and  sail  so  by  your  • 
advise  procure  the  Queue  to  ratifie  it,  we  also  planelie  pro- 
misse  yow,  that  we  will  also  continew  oure  gude  dispositioun 
to  keip  the  same  in  such  gude  termes  as  now  it  is :  and  in  so 
doing,  the  honour  of  Almychty  God  sail  be  dewly  soucht  and 
promoted  in  boyth  Realmes ;  the  Queue  your  Soverane  sail 
enjoy  hir  stait  with  suyrtie  ;  and  your  selfis  possesse  that 
quhilk  yow  have  with  tranquillitie,  to  the  encreas  of  your 
families  and  posterities  quhilk  by  the  frequent  warris  heiiio- 
foir  your  ancestouris  never  haid  long  in  one  estaite. 

To  conclude,  We  requyre  yow  to  advertise  us  of  quhat  mynd 
yow  be,  speciallie  gif  yow  all  continew  in  that  mynd,  that  yow 
meane  to  have  the  peace  betwix  boith  the  Realmes  perpe- 
tuallie  keipit.  And  gif  yow  sail  forbeir  ony  long  tyme  to 
advertise  us,  ye  sail  geve  to  us  some  occasioun  of  doubt, 
quhairof  moir  hurt  may  grow  than  gude. 

From,  &c. 

These  letteris  receaved  and  perused,  albeit  the  Estatis  culd 
nott  be  convened,  yit  did  the  Counsall,  and  some  utheris  also 
in  particulare,  rcturae  ansures  with  resonable  diligence.  The 
tennour  of  oure  Letteris  was  this  : — 

Pleis  youe  Majestie, 
Tliat    with    jugement,    we   have    advysed    your   Majesteis 
letteris  ;  and  albeit  the  haill  Estaittis  culd  not  suddandlie  be 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  179 

assemblit,  yit  Ave  tliocht  expedient  to  signifie  somquliat  of  oure 
niyndis  unto  your  Majestic.  Far  be  it  frome  us,  that  eather 
we  tak  upone  us,  that  infamye  befoir  the  warld,  or  grudge  of 
conscience  befoir  oure  God,  that  we  suld  lychtlie  esteme  the 
observatioun  of  that  jjeace  laitlie  contractit  betwix  these  two 
Realmes.  By  quhat  motives  oure  Soverane  delayeth  the  rati 
ficatioun  thairof,  we  can  nott  tell :  but  of  us,  (of  us,  we  say, 
Madame,  that  have  in  Goddis  presence  protested  fidelitie  in 
oure  promeisses,)  hir  Grace  hes  none.  Your  Majestic  can 
not  be  ignorant,  that  in  this  Realme  thair  ar  mony  ennemeis  ; 
and,  farther,  that  oure  Soverane  hes  Counsalouris,  quhois 
jugementis  scho  in  all  suche  cases  preferreth  to  ouris.  Oure 
allegeance  biudeth  us,  nott  onlie  reverentlie  to  speik  and 
write  of  oure  Soverane,  but  also  so  to  juge  and  think :  and 
yit  your  Majestic  may  be  weill  assured,  that  in  us  salbe 
noted  no  blame,  gif  that  peace  be  nott  ratifiet  to  your  Ma- 
jestcis  contentment :  for  God  is  witness,  that  oure  cheiff  cair 
in  this  earth,  nyxt  the  glorie  of  oure  God,  is,  that  constant 
peace  may  remane  betwix  these  two  Realmes ;  quhairof 
your  Majestic  and  realme  sail  have  suyre  experience  sa  lang 
as  oure  counsall  or  votes  may  stay  the  contrarie.  The  be- 
nefite  that  we  liaif  receaved  is  so  recent,  that  we  can  nott 
suddandlie  bury  it  in  forgetfulnes.  We  wald  desyre  your 
Majestic  rather  to  be  pers waded  of  us,  that  we  to  oure  powaris 
will  studye  to  leave  it  in  remembrance  to  oure  posteritie. 
And  thus,  with  lauchfuU  and  humble  commendatiouh  of  oure 
service,  we  committ  youre  Majestic  to  the  protectioun  of  the 
Omnipotent. 

Of  Edinburgh,  the  16  of  Julij  1561. 

Thair  war  some  utheris  that  answered  some  of  the  minis- 
teris  of  Ingland  somequhat  more  scharplie,  and  willed  thame 
nott  to  accuse  nor  threatten  sa  scharplie,  till  that  thai  war 
able  to  convict  suche  as  haid  promised  fidelitie  of  som>e  evi- 


180 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  HI. 


dent  cryme ;  quhilk,  altliocht  thai  Avar  able  to  lay  to  the 
charge  of  some,  yit  respect  wald  he  haid  to  suche  as  long  haid 
declared  thame  selfis  constant  procureris  of  quyetnes  and 
peace. 

The  suddane  an-yvall  of  the  Quene  maid  grite  altera- 
tioun  evin  in  the  Counsall,  as  efter  we  Avill  heir.  In  this 
meantyme,  the  Papistis  by  surmising,  trublit  quhat  thai 
mycht :  thair  postis,  letteris,  and  comjjlaintis  wer  from  day  to 
day  direct,  some  to  the  Paipe,  some  to  the  Cardinall  of  Lo- 
rane,  and  some  to  oure  Quene.  The  principall  of  these  cur- 
riouris  war,  Maister  Stevin  Wilsoun/  Maister  Johnne  Leslie, 
called  Nolumus  and  Volumus,'^  Maister  James  Thorntoun,^  and 


1  Mr.  Stephen  Wilson,  who  probably 
held  some  preferment  in  the  Romish 
Church,  was  an  active  partisan  of  Queen 
Mary.  He  had  also  been  in  the  service 
of  her  mother,  the  Queen  Regent.  On 
the  11th  February  1559-60,  the  Trea- 
surer paid,  "  be  the  Quenis  Grace  spe- 
ciale  command  to  Maister  Stevin  Wil- 
sone,  passand  of  Edinburgh  thi-ouch 
Ingland,  in  the  Quenis  Grace  effairis, 
in  France,"  the  sum  of  £80.  Randolph, 
in  a  letter  to  Cecil,  7th  February  1565-6, 
referring  to  a  Band  or  Confederacy 
"to  maintayne  Papistrye  throughout 
Christendome,"  but  more  especially  di- 
rected against  Queen  Elizabeth  and  the 
Protestants  in  Scotland,  which  had 
been  sent  from  France  to  be  signed  by 
the  Queen  of  Scots ;  he  says,  it  was  "to 
be  returned  very  shortlie,  as  I  heare,  by 
Mr.  Steven  Wilson,  a  fit  minister  for 
such  devilish  devices."  Killegrew,  in  a 
letter  to  Lord  Burghley,  written  from 
Edinburgh,  4th  March  1573,  says, 
"  Stephen  Wilson,  that  carried  letters 
from  the  Erie  of  Argile  into  France,  is 
returned,  and  taken  by  the  Regentis 
commandment.  To-morrow  he  shall  be 
examined."  (Wright's  Queen  Elizabeth, 
vol.  i.  pp.  220,  470.)     His  intercepted 


correspondence  is  also  mentioned  in 
Killegrew's  letter,  on  the  9th  March, 
quoted  by  Mr.  Tytler,  vol.  vii.  p.  340. 

2  See  page  141,  and  foot-note  to  page 
139. 

3  Mr.  James  Thornton  became  one  of 
the  dignified  clergy,  and  enjoyed  the  par- 
sonage of  Alves,  and  the  vicarage  of  Lan- 
bryde,  as  Chantor  of  Murray.  In  1559, 
he  was  at  Rome  employed  with  John 
Row,  (who  afterwards  became  the  Pro- 
testant minister  of  Perth,)  in  transact- 
ing some  ecclesiastical  matters.  In 
1562,  when  the  Rentals  of  the  Benefices 
were  given  in  to  the  Commissioners,  he 
made  several  of  the  returns  in  the 
diocese  of  Murray.  One  of  these  was 
the  Chantorie  of  Mm-ray,  rendered  by 
"  Maister  James  Thorntoim  in  name 
and  behalf,  and  as  procurar  of  his  Erne 
(uncle)  Maister  John  Thornetoun  eldar, 
quha  is  in  titcU  of  the  said  Chantorie." 
Another  was  the  parsonage  of  Adwy, 
given  in  by  him,  "  in  name  and  as 
procurar  for  //  is  brother,  Maister  Johnne 
Thornetoun  younger,  possessor  and 
titular  of  the  samyn."  He  appears  to 
have  been  an  active  and  confidential 
agent  of  James  Beaton,  Archbishop  of 
Glasgow,  (who  had  retired  to  France, 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


181 


utlieris,  suche  as  leved,  and  still  leve,  by  the  trafique  of  that 
Romaiie  harlott. 

The  Preachearis  vehementlie  exhorted  us  to  establische  The 
BuKE  OF  Discipline,  by  ane  Act  and  pnblict  Law  ;  affirmyng, 
that  and  gif  thay  sufiered  thingis  to  hing  in  suspence,  qnhen 
God  haid  gevin  unto  thame  sufficient  power  in  thair  handis, 
thai  suld  efter  sobb  for  it,  bot  suld  nott  get  it. 

And  now,^  because  that  diverse  tymes  heirtofoir  we  half 
maid  mentioun  of  the  said.  Buke,  we  have  thocht  expedient 
to  insert  the  haill  in  this  parte  of  oure  Historie,^  to  the  end 
that   the   Posteriteis   to  come  may  juge   alsweill  quhat  the 


after  the  establishment  of  the  Refor- 
mation,) in  carrying  on  his  negotiations 
with  this  country.  Queen  ]\Iary  ad- 
dressed a  letter  to  Queen  Elizabeth, 
27th  May  1565,  requesting  a  safe  con- 
duct "  for  Maister  James  Thorntoun, 
Secretair  to  the  Archbishop  of  Glasgo, 
as  Ambassatour  in  France."  In  1566 
he  brought  from  France  the  Bond  men- 
tioned in  the  preceding  note.  It  was 
about  this  time  that  he  obtained,  pro- 
bably as  his  uncle's  successor,  the  titular 
appointment  of  Chantor  of  Murray. 

*  The  whole  of  this  concluding  sen- 
tence, and  the  Book  of  Discipline  itself, 
are  omitted  in  the  Glasgow  MS.  In 
such  of  the  later  MSS.  of  Knox  as  con- 
tain the  Book  of  Discipline,  it  is  literally 
copied  from  Calderwood's  printed  edi- 
tion in  1621 ;  in  small  4to,  pp.  [xtI.] 
and  92. 

5  Archbishop  Spotiswood,  in  his  His- 
tory of  the  Church  of  Scotland,  (edit. 
1655,  pp.  152-174,)  has  also  introduced 
a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Discipline,  and 
assigns  the  following  reason  for  doing 
so :  "  In  the  Convention  kept  at  Edin- 
burgh in  January  preceding  [15G0-1],  a 
form  of  Church-policy  was  presented, 
and  desired  to  be  ratified.  Because 
this  will  fall  to  be  often  mentioned,  and 
serveth  to  the  clearing  of  many  ques- 


tions which  were  afterward  agitated  in 
the  Church ;  I  thought  meet  word  by 
word  here  to  insert  the  same,  that  the 
Reader  may  see  what  were  the  gi-ounds 
laid  down  at  first  for  the  Government 
of  the  Church,  so  we  shall  the  better 
decerne  of  the  changes  that  followed." 
(Hist.  p.  152.) 

Spotiswood  does  not  state  from  what 
authority  he  has  given  it ;  but  it  is  un- 
deniable that  he  has  curtailed  various 
passages  which  will  be  pointed  out  in 
the  Appendix,  in  the  note  on  the  Book 
of  Discipline.  At  the  conclusion  he 
adds, — "  This  was  the  Policy  desu-ed 
to  be  ratified  :  It  had  been  formed  by 
John  Knox,  partly  in  imitation  of  the 
reformed  Churches  of  Germany,  partly 
of  that  he  had  seen  in  Geneva ;  whence 
he  took  that  device  of  annuall  Deacons 
for  collecting  and  dispensing  the  Church 
rents,  whereof  in  the  sixth  head  he 
speak eth;  I  cannot  say."     (lb.  p.  174.) 

It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  remark, 
that  the  Second  Book  of  Discipline, 
forming  part  of  Calderwood's  edition, 
was  of  a  subsequent  date,  having  been 
agreed  upon  in  the  General  Assembly 
1578,  inserted  in  the  Registers  of  the 
Assembly  1581,  and  recognised  by  Par- 
liament in  1592, 


182  HISTORY  OF  THE  REFORMATION.  Book  III. 

warldlingis  refused,  as  quhat  Policie  the  godlie  Ministeris 
required ;  that  thai  (gif  God  grant  unto  thanie  occasioun 
and  libertie)  may  eather  establishe  a  more  perfite,  or  ellis 
imitat  that  quhilk  avaritiousnes  wald  nott  suifer  this  corrupt 
generatioun  to  approve. 


THE  PREFACE 
TO  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLLNE/ 

To    THE   Great    Counsall    of    Scotland    now    admitted 
TO  [the]  Regiment,  by  the  Providence  of  God,  and 

BY  THE  COMMOUN  CONSENT  OF  THE  EsTAITTIS  THAIROF, 
YOUR    HONOURIS    HUMBLE     SeRVITOURIS    AND     MiNISTERIS 

OF  Christ  Jesus  within  the  same,  wishe  Grace, 
Mercy,  and  Peace  from  God  the  Father  of  ourb 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  the  perpetuall  encrease 
of  the  Holye  Spirite. 

Frome  youre  Honouris  we  receaved  a  charge,  daittit  at 
Edinburgh,  xxix  of  Aprile,  in  tlio  yeir  of  God  J°'  V  thre  scoir 
yeiris,   requyring  and  commanding  us,   in    the    name  of  the 


THE    FIRST    AND 

SECOND   BOOKE   OF 
DISCIPLINE 

Together  with  some 

ACTS  OF  THE  GENERALL 

ASSEMBLIES, 

Clearing  and  confirming  the  same :  And 

AN  ACT  OF  PARLIAMENT. 

ExoD.  25.  9. 

According  lo  all  that  I  shew  thee,  after  the 
paterne  of  the  Tabernacle,  and  the  paterne 
0/  all  the  instruments  Vierof,  even  so  shall  yee 
make  it. 

Printed  Anno  1G21. 


'  There  is  no  separate  title  either  in 
the  MS.  15G6,  or  in  Vautrollier's  edition, 
which  contains  the  earlier  portion  of  the 
Book  of  Discipline.  (See  note  1,  page 
197.)  The  edition  1621,  quoted  in  the 
foot-notes,  was  published  anonymously 
by  David  Calderwood  the  historian,  and 
was  evidently  printed  in  Holland.  A 
copy  of  the  title-page  is  herewith  an- 
nexed. It  was  reprmted  in  the  "  Col- 
lection of  Confessions  of  Faith,"  &c., 
with  a  separate  title-page,  dated  1721, 
but  the  volume  ii.  (pp.  515-608.)  con- 
taining it,  was  not  completed  until 
1722.  The  Editor  says,  "  This  edition 
is  according  to  that  which  was  printed 
in  1621,"  correcting  typographical  er- 
rors, and  supplying  "  fi-om  other  co- 
pics  some  words  which  probably  have 
been  omitted  by  the  printer."     It  is  to 


184  THE  PREFACE. 

Eternall  God,  as  we  will  ansuer  in  his  presence,  to  committ  to 
Avriting,  and  in  a  Buke  to  deliver  unto  your  Wisdomes  oure 
jugementis  tuiching  the  Reformatioun  of  Religioun,  quliilk 
heirtofore  in  this  Realme,  (as  in  utheris,)  hes  hene  utterlie 
corrupted.  Upone  the  recept  quhairof,  sa  mony  of  us  as  wer  in 
this  Toune,  did  convene,  and  in  unitie  of  mynd  do  offer  unto 
your  Wisdomes  these  Headis  subsequent  for  commoun  ordour 
and  unifomiitie  to  be  observed  in  this  Realme,  concernyng 
Doctiyne,  administratioun  of  Sacramentis,  [election  of  Minis- 
ters, Provision  for  their  sustentation,^]  Ecclesiasticall  Discip- 
line, and  Policye  of  the  Kirk  :^  Most  humilie  requyring  your 
lionouris,  that  as  ye  luke  for  participatioun  with  Christ  Jesus, 
that  natlier  ye  admitt  ony  thing  quhilk  Goddis  plane  word 
sail  not  approve,  nather  yit  that  ye  sail  reject  suche  ordinances 
as  equitie,  justice,  and  Goddis  word  do  specific  :  For  as  we  will 
nott  bynd  your  Wisdomes  to  oure  jugementis,  farther  then  we 
be  able  to  prove  the  same  by  Goddis  plane  Scripturis  ;  so  must 
we  most  humblie  crave  of  yow,  evin  as  ye  will  ansuer  in 
Goddis  presence,  (befoir  quhom  boyth  ye  and  we  must  appeir 
to  rander  accomptis  of  all  oure  factis,)  that  ye  repudiat  na 
thing  for  pleasour  nor^  affectioun  of  men,  quhilk  ye  be  not 
abill  to  improve  by  Goddis  writtin  and  revealled  Word. 


be  regretted  that  he  should  not  have  ^  In   Vautr.    edit.,  and    edit.    1621, 

specified  what  "  other  copies"  he  made  "   Church"    is    used    throughout    the 

use  of.   But  one  of  these,  no  doubt,  was  earlier  portion  of  the  Book  of  Discipline 

Spotiswood's,    referred   to  in  note  2,  in  place  of  "  Kirk :"  see  note  2  to  page 

page  181.  201. 

"  Omitted  in  MS.  1566,  but  contained  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "  pleasure  and." 

in  Vautr.  edit,  and  edit.  1621. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  185 


The  First  Head,  of  Doctrine.i 
Seeing  that  Christ  Jesus  is  he  quhoni  God  the  Father  hes 
commandit  onlie  to  he  herd,  and  followed  of  his  scheip,  we 
urge  it  necessarie,  that  his  Evangell^  be  trewlie  and  openlie 
preached  in  everie  Kirk  and  Assemblie  of  this  Realme ;  and 
that  all  doctrine  repugnyng^  to  the  same  he  utterlie  suppres- 
sed^ as  damnahill  to  mannis  salvatioun. 

The  Explicatiowi  of  the  First  Head. 

Least  ujjone  this  our^  generalitie  ungodlie  men  tak  occa- 
sioun  to  cavill,  this  we  adde  for  explicatioun.  By  preching 
of  the  Evangell,  we  understand  nott  onlie  the  Scripturis  of 
the  New  Testament,  hot  also  of  the  Auld ;  to  wit,  the  Law, 
Propheittis,  and  Histories,  in  quliilk  Christ  Jesus  is  no  les 
conteaned  in  figure,  then  we  have  him  now  expressed  in  veri- 
tie :  And,  thairfoir,  with  the  Appostill  we  affirme,  that  "  All 
Scripture  inspired  of  God  is  profitable  to  instruct,  to  reprove, 
and  to  exhorte."  In  quhilk  buykis  of  Auld  and  New  Testa- 
mentis  we  affirme,  that  all  thingis  necessarie  for  the  instruc- 
tioun  of  the  Kirk,  and  to  mak  the  man  of  God  perfite,  is  con- 
teaned and  sufficientlie  expressed. 

By  the  contrarie  Doctrine,  we  understand  quhatsoever  men, 
by  Lawis,  Counsallis,  or  Constitutionis  have  imposed  upone  the 
consciences  of  men,  without  the  ex^^ressed  commandiment  of 
Goddis  word  ;  suclie  as  be  [the]  vowis  of  chastitie,  foirswering 
of  marriage,  bindyng  of  men  and  women  to  severall  and 
disagysed  apparrellis,  to  the  superstitious  observ^atioun  of  fast- 
ing dayis,  difference  of  meit  for  conscience  saik,  prayer  for  the 
deid  ;  and  hoping  of  holy  dayis  of  certane  Sanctis  commandit 

'  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  I.  *  In  Vautr.  edit.,  and  edit.  1621,  "  re- 

*  In  Vautr. edit.,  audedit.1621,  "Evan-  pressed." 

gcll"  is  always  rendered  "  Gospell."  =  In  edit.  1621,  "  Lest  that  upon," 

'  In  edit.  1G21,  "  repugnant."  and  omits  "our." 


186  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

by  man,  suche  as  be  all  those  that  the  Papistis  have  invented, 
as  the  Feistis  (as  thai  terme  thame)  of  Appostillis,  Martyres, 
Virgenis,  of  Christmess,  Circumcisioun,  Epiphany,  Purification, 
and  uther  found  ^  feistis  of  our  Lady  :  Quhilk  thingis,  becaus 
in  Goddis  Scripturis  thai  nather  have  commandiment  nor  as- 
surance, we  juge  thame  utterlie  to  be  abolischet  from  this 
Realme ;  affirmyng  farther,  that  the  obstinat  mayntenaris 
and  teachearis  of  suche  abhominationis  audit  not  to  eschaip 
the  punyschement  of  the  Civile  Magistrat. 


The  Secound  Head,  of  Sacramentis.2 
To    Christ  Jesus   his   liolie   Evangell  trewlie   preached,  of 
necessitie  it  is,  that  his   holie  Sacramentis  be  annexit,  and 
trewlie  ministred,  as  seallis  and  visible  confirmationis  of  the 
THE  spirituall  premisses  contened  in  the  wourd  :     And  thai  be  two, 

OFSACEA-  to  wit,  Baptisme,  and  the  Holie  Supper  of  the  Lord  Jesus: 
quhilk  ar  then  rychtlie  ministred,  quhen  by  a  lauchfull  Mi- 
nister the  pepill,  befoir  the  administratioun  of  the  same,  ar 
planelie  instructed,  and  put  in  mynd  of  Goddis  free  grace  and 
mercy,  offered  unto  the  penitent  in  Christ  Jesus  ;  quhen 
Goddis  premisses  ar  rehersit,  the  end  and  use  of  the  Sacra- 
mentis declared,^  and  that  in  suche  a  toung  as  the  pepill  dois 
understand  ;  quhen  farther  to  thame  is  nothing  added,  from 
thame  no  thing  diminissit,  and  in  thair  practise  nathing  chan- 
git  besydis  the  institutioun  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  practise  of 
his  holie  Apostles. 

And  albeit  the  Ordour  of  Geneva,^  quhilk  now  is  used 
in  some  of  oure  kirks,  is  sufficient  to  instnict  the  diligent 
reader,  how  that  boyth  these  Sacramentis  may  be  rychtlie 
ministred  ;  yit  for  ane  unifomiitie  to  be  keipit,  we  have  thocht 
gude  to  adde  this  as  superaboundand. 

'  In   Vautr.   edit.,    and   edit.   1621,  ^  In   Vautr.   edit.,    and  edit.   1621, 

"  other  fonde"  and  "  fond  feastes."  "  preached  and  declared." 

"  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  II.  *  See  note  infra,  page  210. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  187 

In  Baptisme,  we  acknawlege  nothing  to  be  used  except  the 
element  of  wattir  onlie,  (that  the  wourd  and  declaratioun  of 
the  premisses  aucht  to  preccid  we  haif  said  befoir.)  Quhair- 
foir,  quhosoevir  presumeth  in  baptisme  to  use  oyle,  salt,  wax, 
spattilljl  conjuratioun,  or  croceing,  accuseth  the  perfyte  insti- 
tutioun  of  Christ  Jesus  of  imperfectioun  ;  for  it  wes  void  of  all 
suche  inventionis  devysed  by  men :  And  suclie  as  wald  pre- 
sume to  alter  Christis  perfite  ordinance  yow  aucht  seveirlie  to 
punische. 

The  Tabill  of  the  Lord  is  then  most  rychtlie  ministred, 
quhen  it  approacheth  most  ney  to  Christis  awin  actioun  :  But 
plane  it  is,  that  at  that  Supper,  Christ  Jesus  sat  with  his 
discipillis,  and  thairfoir  do  we  juge,  that  sitting  at  a  table  is 
most  convenient  to  that  holie  actioun :  that  breid  and  wyne 
aucht  to  be  thair ;  that  thankis  aucht  to  be  gevin ;  distribu- 
tioun  of  the  same  maid ;  and  commandiment  gevin  that  the 
breid  suld  be  tack  in  and  eittin ;  and  that  all  suld  likewise 
drink  of  the  cowp  of  wyne,  w  itli  declaratioun  quhat  boyth  the 
one  and  the  other  is,  we  suppoise  no  godlie  man  will  doubt. 
For  as  tuiching  the  dampnabill  erroure  of  the  Papistis,  quho 
can  2  defraude  the  commoun  pepill  of  the  one  parte  of  that 
holie  Sacrament,  to  wit,  of  the  coupe  of  the  Lordis  blude,  we 
suppois  thair  errour  to  be  so  manifest,  that  it  needeth  no  confu- 
tatioun  ;  nather  yit  intend  we  to  confute  any  thing  in  this 
oure  simple  confessioun ;  but  to  offer  publict  disputatioun  to 
all  that  list  oppung  any  thing  affirmed  by  us. 

That  the  Minister  break  the  breid,  and  distribute  the  same 
to  those  that  be  nyxt  unto  him,  commanding  the  rest,  every 
one  with  reverence  and  sobrietie,  to  breake  with  other,  we 
think  it  nyest  to  Christis  actioun,  and  to  the  perfite  practise 
[of  the  Apostles,]  as  we  reid  it  in  Sanct  Paull.  During  the 
quhilk  actioun,  we  think  it  necessarie,  that  some  comfortable 

1   In  Vautr.    edit.,   and   edit.    1621,  « j^   Vautr.   edit,,    and    edit.   1621, 

"  spittle."  "  who  dare." 


188  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

places  of  [the]  Scripturis  be  red,  quliilk  may  bring  in  mynd 
the  deitli  of  Christ  Jesus,  and  the  benefite  of  the  same  ;  for 
seing  that  in  that  actioun  we  aucht  chieflie  to  remember  the 
Lordis  deith,  we  juge  the  Scripturis  macking  mentioun  of  the 
same  most  apt  to  stear  up  our  dull  myndis  then,  and  at  all 
tymes.  Lett  the  discretioun  of  the  ministeris  appoint  the 
places  to  be  red  as  thai  think  gude.  Quhat  tymes  we  think 
most  convenient  for  the  administratioun  of  the  one  and  of 
the  other  of  these  Sacramentis,  salbe  declared  in  the  Policie 
of  the  Kirk. 


The  Thrid  Head,  tuiching  the  Abolissing 
OF  Idolatrie.i 

As  we  require  Christ  Jesus  to  be  trewlie  preached,  and  his 
holie  Sacramentis  to  be  rychtlie  ministerit ;  so  can  we  not  cease 
to  requyre  Idolatrie,  with  all  monumentis  and  places  of  the 
same,  as  Abbayis,  monkeries,^  freireis,  nunreis,  chapellis,  cliant- 
reis,  cathedrall  kirkis,  channounreis,  colledges,  uthers  then 
presentlie  are  T)aroche  Kirkis  or  Sculis,  to  be  utterlie  sup- 
pressed in  all  boundis  and  places  of  this  Realme  (except  onlie 
the  Palacies,  mansionis,  and  dwelling  places  adjacent  thairto, 
with  orchartis  and  yardis  of  the  samyn)  :  As  also  that  Idolatrie 
may  be  removed  from  the  presence  of  all  personis  of  quhat 
estait  or  conditioun  that  ever  thai  be,  within  this  Realme. 

For  latt  your  Honouris  be  assuredlie  persuaded,  that  quhair 
Idolatrie  is  mayntened  or  permitted  quhair  it  may  be  sup- 
pressed, that  thair  sail  Goddis  wraith  reigne,  not  onlie  ui)one 
the  blind  and  obstinat  idolater,  but  also  upone  the  negligent 
sufferaris  [of  the  same  ;]  especiallie  gif  Grod  have  armed  thair 
handis  with  power  to  suppress  suche  abhominatioun. 

By  Idolatrie  we  understand,  the  Messe,  Invocatioun  of 
Sanctis,  Adoratioun  of  Ymagis,  and  the  keping  and  retenying 

1  In  edit.  1722,  Chai>.  III.  ^  In  MS.  1566,  "  nionkis,  freiris." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  189 

of  the  same :    and  finallie  all  honoring  of  God,  not  conteaned 
in  his  holie  Word. 


The  Foukt  Head,  concernynq  Ministeris  and  thair 
Lauchfull  Electioun.1 

In  a  Kirk  reformed  or  tending  to  reformatioun,  none  aucht 
[to]  presume  eatlier  to  preaclie,  eatlier  yit  to  minister  the 
Sacramentis,  till  that  ordourlie  thai  be  callit  to  the  same, 
Ordinarie  vocatioun  consisteth  in  Electioun,  Examinatioun,  and 
Admissioun.  And  becaus  that  Electioun  of  Ministeris  in  this 
cursed  Papistrie  hes  altogither  bene  abused,  we  think  expe- 
dient to  intreat  it  moir  largelie. 

It  apperteneth  to  the  Pepill,  and  to  everie  severall  Congre- 
gatioun,  to  Elect  thair  Minister :  And  in  caise  that  thai  be 
fundin  negligent  thairin  the  space  of  fourty  dayis,  the  best  re- 
formed kirk,  to  wit,  the  churche  of  the  Superintendent  with 
his  Counsall,  may  present  unto  thame  a  man  quhom  thai 
juge  apt  to  feade  the  flock  of  Christ  Jesus,  who  must  be 
examinated  alsweill  in  lyifi*  and  maneris,  as  in  doctiyne  and 
knawlege. 

And  that  this  may  be  done  with  moir  exact  diligence, 
the  personis  that  ar  to  be  examinated  must  be  commanded 
to  compeir2  befoir  men  of  soundest  jugement,  remanying 
in  some  principall  towne  nyxt  adjacent  unto  thame  ;  as  thai 
that  be  in  Fyffe,  Anguss,  Mernyss,  or  Straytherne,  to  present 
thame  selfis  in  Sanctandrois  ;  those  that  be  in  Lowthiane, 
Merse,  or  Teviotdaill,  to  Edinburgh ;  and  likewise  those  that 
be  in  other  countreis  mon  resorte  to  the  best  reformed  citeis 
or  townis,  that  is,  to  the  citie^  of  the  Superintendent ;  quhair 
first  in  the  scoillis,  or  failling  thairof  in  open  assemblie,  and 
befoir  the  congregatioun,  thai  most  geve  declaratioun  of  thair 

1  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  IV.  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  best  reformed 

'  InVautr.  ed.,anded.  1G21,  "appeire."      citie  and  toune,  that  is,  to  the  towne." 


190  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

giftis,  utterance,  and  knawlege,  by  interpreting  some  place  of 
Scripture  to  be  appointed  be  tlie  ministerie.  Quliilk  being- 
ended,  the  persone  that  is  presented,  or  that  offered  him  self 
to  the  administratioun  of  tlie  kirk,  must  be  examined  bj  the 
ministeris  and  elderis  of  the  kirk,  and  that  opinlie  and  be- 
foir  all  that  list  to  hear,  in  all  the  cheif  pointes  that  now 
lie  in  contraversie  betwix  us  and  the  Papistis,  Anabaptistis, 
Arrians,  or  other  suche  ennemies  to  the  Christiane  religioun. 
In  quhilk  gif  he  be  found  sound,  abill  to  persuade  by  hail- 
some  doctryne,  and  to  convince  the  gaynsayaris,  then  must 
he  be  directed  to  the  Kirk  and  Congregatioun  quhair  he  suld 
serve,  that  thair,  in  oppin  audience  of  his  flock,  in  diverse 
publict  sermonis,  he  may  gif  confession  of  his  faith  in  the 
articles  of  Justificatioun,  of  the  office  of  Christ  Jesus,  of  the 
nomber,  effect,  and  use  of  the  Sacraments ;  and,  finallie,  of 
the  hoill  religioun,  quhilk  heirtofoir  hath  bene  corrupted  by 
the  Papistis. 

Gif  his  doctrine  be  found  holesome,  and  able  to  instmct  the 
simple,  and  if  the  Kirk  justlye  can  reprehend  nothing  in  his 
lyiff,  doctryne,  nor  utterance,  then  we  juge  the  Kirk,  quhilk 
befoir  wes  destitute,  unreasonabill  if  thai  refuse  him  quhom 
the  Kirk  did  offer  ;  and  that  thai  suld  be  compelled,  by  the  cen- 
sure of  the  Counsall  and  Kirk,  to  receive  the  persone  appoynted 
and  approvin  by  the  jugement  of  the  godlie  and  lerned  ;  unless 
that  the  same  Kirk  have  presented  a  man  better  or  alsweill 
qualifeid  to  the  examinatioun,  befoir  that  this  foirsaid  tryell 
wes  takin  of  the  persone  presented  by  the  counsall  of  the  lioile 
Kirk.  As,  for  example,  the  Counsall  of  the  Kirk  presentis  to 
any  kirk  a  man  to  be  thair  minister,  not  knawing  that  thai 
ar  utherwayis  provided  :  in  the  meyntyme,  the  Kirk  is  provided 
of  ane  uther,  sufficient  in  thair  jugement  for  that  charge, 
quhom  thai  present  to  the  lerned  Ministeris  and  next  reformed 
Kirk  to  be  examinated.  In  this  case  the  presentatioun  of 
the  Pepill,  to  quhom  he  suld  be  appointed  pastour,  must  be 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  191 

preferred  to  the  presentatioun  of  tlie  Counsall  or  greater  Kirk  ; 
unless  the  persone  presented  by  the  inferioiir  Kirk  be  juged 
unabill  for  the  regiment  by  the  lerncd.  For  altogithcr  this  is 
to  be  avoided,  that  any  man  be  violentlie  intrused^  or  thrust 
in  upoun  any  Congregatioun.  But  this  libertie  with  all  cair 
must  be  reserved  till  everie  severall  Kirk,  to  have  thair  votis 
and  suffragis  in  electioun  of  thair  Ministeris.  But  violent  in- 
trusioun  we  call  nott,  quhen  the  Counsall  of  the  Kirk,  in 
the  feare  of  God,  and  for  the  salvatioun  of  the  pepill,  ofFereth 
unto  thame  a  sufficient  man  to  instruct  thame  ;  quhom  thai 
sail  not  be  forced  to  admitt  befoir  just  examinatioun,  as  befoir 
is  said. 

II.    QUHAT  MAY  UNABLE  ONY  PERSOUN,  THAT  HE  MAY  NOTT 
BE  ADMITTED  TO  THE  MiNISTERIE  OF  THE  KiRK. 

It  is  to  be  observed  that  na  persone,  noted  with  publict  in- 
fomye,  or  being  unabill  to  edifie  the  Kirk  by  hailsome  doctrine, 
or  being  knawin  of  corinipt  jugement,  be  eather  promoted  to 
the  regiment  of  the  Kirk,  or  yit  receaved^  in  Ecclesiasticall 
administratioun. 

Explicationn. 
By  publict  Infamye  we  understand,  nott  the  commoun 
synnes  and  offences  quhilk  any  lies  committit  in  tyme  of 
blindnes,  by  fragilite  ;  (gif  of  the  same,  by  a  better  and  more 
sober  conversatioun,  he  hath  declared  him  self  vcriclie  jjeni- 
tent ;)  but  suche  capitall  crymes  as  the  civile  swerd  audit  and 
may  punishe  with  deith  by  the  wourd  of  God.  For  besydis 
that  the  Apostill  requyreth  the  lyif  of  Ministeris  to  be  so  irre- 
prehensible,  that  thai  have  a  gude  testimonye  from  those  that 
be  without ;  we  juge  it  a  thing  unseimlie  and  dangerouse,  that 
he  sail  have  publict  authoritie,  to  preiche  to  utheris  the  lyiff 

1    111   Vautr.   edit.,   and  edit.    1621,  ^  j^  Vautr.  edit.,  and  edit.  1621,  "  or 

"  intruded."  yet  retained." 


192  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

everlasting,  from  qiihom  the  civile  Magistrat  may  tak  the  lyiff 
temporall  for  a  cryme  publictlie  committed :  And  gif  ony 
object,  That  the  Prince  hes  pardoned  his  offence,  and  that  he 
hes  publictlie  repented,  and  so  is  not  onlie  his  lyiff-^  in  assur- 
ance, but  also  that  he  maybe  receaved  to  the  Ministerie  of  the 
Kirk;  we  answer,  That  repentance  dois  nott  tak  away  the 
temporall  punishment  of  the  law,  neither  doth  the  pardon  of 
the  Prince  remove  his  infamye  befoir  man. 

That  the  lyiff  and  conversatioun  of  the  persone  presented,  or 
to  be  elected,  may  be  the  more  cleirlie  knawin,  publict  Edictis 
must  be 2  directed  to  all  partis  of  this  Realme,  or  at  the  leist 
to  those  partis  quhair  the  persone  hath  bene  most  conversant : 
as  quhair  he  wes  nurischit  in  letteris,  or  quhair  he  contineuit 
from  the  yeiris  of  infancie  and  childhood  war  passed.  Strait 
commandiment  wald  be  gevin,  that  if  any  capital  ciymes  wer 
committit  by  him,  that  thai  suld  be  notified ;  as,  gif  he  hath 
committit  wilfull  murther,  adulterie,  a  commoun  fomicatour, 
gif  he  war 3  a  theiff,  a  druncard,  a  feychtar,  brawlar,  or  con- 
tentious persone.  These  Edictis  audit  to  be  notified  in  the 
cheiff  cities,  with  the  lyik  charge  and  commandiment,  with 
declaratioun  that  suche  as  concealled  his  synnes  knawin,  did 
deceave  and  betray  (so  far  as  in  them  lay)  the  Kirk,  quhilk 
is  the  spous  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  did  communicate  with  the 
synnes  of  that  wicked  man. 

III.  Admissioun  [of  Ministers.] 
The  admissioun  of  Ministeris  to  thair  offices,  must  consist  in 
consent  of  the  pepill  and  Kirk  quhairto  thai  salbe  appointed, 
and  in  approbation  of  the  learned  Ministeris    appointed   for 
thair  examinatioun. 

We  juge  it  expedient,  that  the  admissioun  of  Ministeris  be 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  and  so  not  only  his  '  In  edit.  1621,  the  words  transposed, 

life  is."  "  if  he  were   a  common  fornicator." 

» In  edit.  1621,  "  should  be."  Vautr.  edit,  corresponds  with  the  text. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  193 

in  opin  audience  ;  that  some  especiall  Minister  mak  a  sermon 
tuicliing  the  deutie  and  office  of  Ministeris,  tuiching  thair 
maneris,  conversatioun,  and  lyif ;  as  also  tuiching  the  obedience 
quhilk  the  Kirk  aw  ^  to  thair  Ministeris.  Commandiraent  suld 
be  gevin  alsweill  to  the  Minister  as  unto  tlie  peple,  boyth  being 
present,  to  witt,  that  he  with  all  cairfull  diligence  attend 
upone  the  flock  of  Christ  Jesus,  over  the  quhilk  he  is  appointed 
preacher: 2  that  he  [will]  walk  in  the  presence  of  God  so 
sjnceirlie,  that  the  graces  of  the  Holie  Spreit  maj  be  multi- 
plyed  into  him ;  and  in  the  presence  of  men  so  sobirlie  and  up- 
rjchtlie,  that  his  lyiff  may  confirm e,  in  the  eyis  of  men,  that 
quhilk  by  toung  and  wourd  he  persuaded  unto  utheris.  The 
people  wald  be  exhorted  to  reverence  and  honour  thair  Mi- 
nisters chosin,  as  the  servandis  and  ambassadouris  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  obeying  the  commandiments  quhilk  thai  pronunce  from 
Goddis  mouth  and  buyk,^  evin  as  thai  wald  obey  God  him  self; 
for  quhosoevir  heareth  Christis  Ministeris  heareth  him  self,  and 
quhosoevir  rejecteth  tlianie,  [and]  dispyseth  thair  ministerie 
and  exhortatioun,  rejecteth  and  dispyseth  Christ  Jesus. 

Other  ceremonie  then  the  publict  approbatioun  of  the  j)eple, 
and  declaratioun  of  the  clieiif  minister,  that  the  persone  thair 
presented  is  aj^poynted  to  serve  that  Kirk,  we  can  nott  ap- 
prove ;  for  albeit  the  Apostillis  used  the  impositioun  of  handis,  [ 
yet  seing  the  mirakle  is  ceassed,  the  using  of  the  ceremonie  we 
juge  is  nott  necessarie. 

The  Minister  elected  or  presented,  examinated,*  and,  as 
said  is,  publictlie  admitted,  man  neather  leave  the  floke  at  his 
plesour,  to  the  quhilk  he  lies  promissit  his  fidelitie  and  law- 
bouris;  neather  yit  may  the  floke  reject  nor  change  him  at 
thair  appetite,  unless  thai  be  abill  to  convict  him  of  suche 
crymes  as  deserve  depositioun ;  quhairof  Ave  sail  after  speik. 

'  In   Yautr.  edit.,    and    edit.  1G21,  ^  In   edit.    1621,   "  they  pronounce 

"  which  the  church  oweth."  from  God's  word." 

^  In  edit.  1621,  "  pastor."  *  In  edit.  1621,  "  examined." 

VOL.  II.  N 


194  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

We  meane  nott  bot  that  the  hole  Kirk,  or  the  most  parte 
thairof,  for  just  considerationis,  may  transfer  a  Minister  frome 
one  kirk  to  another ;  neather  yit  meane  we,  that  men  quho 
now  do  serve  as  it  wer  of  benevolence  may  nott  be  appointed 
and  elected  to  serve  in  other  places ;  but  onis  being  solemndlie 
elected  and  admitted,  we  can  not  approve  that  thai  suld  change 
at  thair  awin  plesour. 

We  are  not  ignorant,  that  the  raritie  of  godlie  and  learned 
men  sail  seme  to  some  a  just.reassone  quhy  that  so  strait  and 
scharpe  examinatioun  suld  not  be  takin  universallie  ;  for  so  it 
sail  appeir,  that  the  most  parte  of  [the]  Kirkis  sail  half  no 
Minister  at  all :  But  let  these  men  understand,  that  the  lack 
of  able  men  sail  nott  excuse  us  befoir  God,  gif  by  oure  con- 
sent unable  men  be  placed  over  the  floke  of  Christ  Jesus ;  as 
also  that  amangis  the  Gentilles,  godlie,  learned  men  war  als 
rare^  as  thai  be  now  amangis  us,  quhen  the  Apostill  gave  the 
same  reul  to  tiy  and  examyne  Ministeris,  quhilk  we  now  fol- 
low :  And  last,  lat  thame  understand  that  it  is  alike  to  have 
no  minister  at  all,  and  to  have  an  idole  in  the  place  of  a  treu 
minister,  yea  and  in  some  case,  it  is  worse  ;  for  those  that  be 
utterlie  destitute  of  ministeris  wilbe  diligent  to  search  for 
them ;  but  those  that  have  a  vane  schaddow,  do  commonlie 
without  farther  cair  content  thame  selfis  with  the  same,  and 
so  remane  thai  continewallie  deceaved,  thinking  that  thai  have 
a  Minister,  quhen  in  vcrray  deid  thai  have  none.  For  we  can 
nott  juge  him  a  dispensatour  of  Goddis  mysteries,  that  in  no 
wyise  can  breke  the  breid  of  lyif  to  the  faynting  and  hungrie 
saulis ;  neather  juge  we  that  the  Sacramentis  can  be  rychtlie 
ministred  by  him,  in  quhais  mouth  God  hes  put  no  sermon  of 
exhortatioun. 

The  cheiffest  remedy  left  till  your  Honouris  and  to  us,  in  all 
this  raritie  of  trew  ministeris,  is  feiTent  prayer  unto  God,  that 
it  will  pleis  his   mercye  to  thrust  out  faithfull  warkmen  in 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  and  learned  men  were  also  rare." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  195 

this  his  harvest ;  ^  and  nyxt,  that  your  Honouris,  with  con- 
sent of  the  Kirk,  are  bound  by  your  authoritie  to  compell 
suche  men  as  have  giftis  and  graces  able  to  edifie  the  Kirk 
of  God,  that  thai  bestow  thame  quhair  greittest  necessitie  salbe 
knawin  ;  for  no  man  may  be  permittit  to  leve  idill,  or  as 
thame  self  list,  but  must  be  appointed  to  travell  quhair  your 
Wisdomes  and  the  Kirk  sail  think  expedient. 

We  can  nott  prescryve  unto  your  Honouris  certane  reuU 
how  that  ye  sail  distribute  the  ministeris  and  lerned  men, 
quhom  God  lies  alreddy  send  unto  you.  But  heirof  we  ar 
assured,  that  it  greitlie  hindereth  the  progress  of  Christis 
Evangell  within  this  poore  Realme,  that  some"  altogither 
abstract  thair  lawbouris  from  the  Kirk,  and  utheris  remane  to- 
gither^  in  one  place,  the  most  parte  of  thame  being  idill.  And 
thairfoir  of  your  Honouris  we  requyre  in  Goddis  name,  that 
by  your  auctoritie  quhilk  ye  have  of  God,  ye  compell  all  men 
to  quhom  God  hes  gevin  ony  talent  to  persuade,  by  holsome 
doctrine,  to  bestow  the  same,  gif  thai  be  called  be  the  Kirk 
to  the  advancement  of  Christis  glorie,  and  to  the  conforte  of 
his  trublit  flock ;  and  that  ye,  with  the  consent  of  the  Kirk, 
assigne  unto  your  cheiffest  workmen,  not  onlie  townis  to  re- 
mane into,  but  also  provinces,  that  be  thair  faithfuU  law- 
bouris kirkis  may  be  erected,  and  ordour  established,  quhair 
none  is  now.  And  gif  on  this  manor  ye  will  use  your  power 
and  auctoritie,  cheiflie  seiking  Goddis  glorie,  and  the  conforte 
of  your  brethrein,  Ave  doubt  not  but  God  sail  bliss  you  and 
your  interprisses. 

IV.  For  Readaris. 
To  the  Kirkis  3  quhair  no  ministeris  can  be  haid  presentlie, 
must  be  appointed  the  most  apt  men,  that  distinctlie  can  read 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  thurst  forth  faith-  "  kirkis,"  are  uniformly  "  Church"  and 

full  workmen  into  this  his  harvest."  "  chui-ches,"  throughout  a  considerable 

-In  edit.  1621,  "  altogether."  portion  of  this  book;   but  see  note  2, 

3    In    edition    1621,     "Kirk"    and  page  201. 


19(5  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

the  Commoiine  Prayerisi  and  the  Scrij^tiiris,  to  exercise  boyth 
thame  selfis  and  tlie  kirk,  till  thai  growe  to  greattar  perfec- 
tioun  ;  and  in  process  of  tyrae  he  that  is  but  ane  Readar  may 
atteane  to  the  further  gree,^  and  by  consent  of  the  kirk  and 
discreit  ministeris,  may  be  permittit  to  minister  the  sacra- 
mentis  ;  but  not  befoir  that  he  be  able  somequhat  to  per- 
suade by  holsorae  doctrine,  besydis  his  reading,  and  be  ad- 
mitted to  the  ministerie,  as  before  is  said.  Some  we  knaw 
that  of  long  tyme  have  professed  Christ  Jesus,  quhose  honest 
conversatioun  deserved  praise  of  all  godlie  men,  and  quhose 
knawledge  also  mycht  greatlie  help  the  simple,  and  yit  thai 
onlie  content  thame  selfis  with  reading.  These  must  be  ani- 
mated, and  by  gentle  admonitioun  incuraged,  by  some  exhor- 
tatioun  to  conforte  thair  brethrein,  and  so  thai  may  be  ad- 
mitted to  administratioun  of  the  sacramentis.  But  suche 
Readeris  as  neather  have  haid  exercise,  nor  continuance  in 
Christis  trew  religioun,  must  abstene  from  ministratioun  of  the 
sacramentis,  till  thai  geve  declaratioun  and  witnessing  of  thair 
honestie  and  farther  knawlege. 

*For  The  Lordis  thinkis,  That  nane  be  admitted  to  preche,^ 
but  thai  that  ar  qualifiet  thairfoir,  but  rather  be  reteaned 
readaris  ;  and  sick  as  ar  prechearis  alreaddy,  not  fundin  quali- 
fiet thairfoir  be  the  Superintendent,  be  placed  to  be  readaris. 


The   Fyft   Heid,   concernying   the   Provisioun   for  the 

Ministeris,  and  for  the  distributioun  of  the  Rentis 

and  possessionis  justlie  appertenyng  to  the  kirk.* 

Seing  that  of  our  Maister  Christ  Jesus  and   his   Apostle 

Paule,  we  have,  "  That  the  warkman  is  worthy  of  his  reward," 

'  That  is,   the   Prayers   that    were  sentence  having  been  added ;  and  thus 

usually  printed  with  the  Book  of  Com-  connects  it  with  the  preceding  words, 

mon  Order,  and  the  Psalms  in  metre.  "  honestie  and  further  knowledge,  that 

-  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  a  farther  degree;"  none  be  admitted  to  preach,"  &c.  Vautr 

Vautr.  edit,  is  the  same  as  the  text.  edit,  is  nearly  the  same  with  the  text. 

3  The  edit.  1621,  takes  no  notice  of  this  <  In  edit.  1 722,  Chap.  V. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  107 

and  tluit,  "  The  moutli  of  the  lawboring  oxe  aucht  iiott  to  bo 
muzilled,"  of  neccssitie  it  is,  that  honest  jn-ovisioun  be  maid  for 
the  Ministeris,  quhilk  we  requyre  to  be  siichc,  tliat  thai  haif 
neather  occasioun  of  sollicitiide,  neather  yit  of  insolencie  and 
wantoness.  And  this  provisioun  must  be  maid  not  onlie  for 
thair  awin  sustentatioun,  during  thair  lyiffes,  but  also  for  thair 
wiffis  and  childrene  efter  thame.  For  we  juge  it  a  thing  most 
contrariouse  to  reassone,  godlines,  and  equitie,  that  the  wedow 
and  childrene  of  him,  quho  in^  his  lyiff  did  faithfullie 
seiTe2  the  Kirk  of  God,  and  for  that  cans  did  not  cairfuUie 
mak  provisioun  for  his  familie,  suld,  efter  his  deith,  be  left 
confortles  of  all  provisioun. 

*  Provisioun  for  the  W^^s  of  Ministeris  efter  thair  deceise,  • 
to  be  remittit  to  the  discretioun  of  the  Kirk.^ 

Difficill  it  is  to  appoint  a  several!  stipend  to  everie  Minister, 
be  reassoun  that  the  chargis  and  necessitie  of  all  will  not  be 
licke ;  for  some  wilbe  contenewaris  in  one  place,  some  wilbe 
compellit  to  travell,  and  oft  to  change  dwelling  place,  (gif  thai 
sail  have  charge  of  diverse  kirkis.)  Amangis  these,  some 
wilbe  burdened  with  wyiff  and  childrein,  and  one  with  mo 
then  ane  other ;  and  some  perchance  wilbe  single  men :  Gif 
equall  stijjendis  suld  be  appointed  to  all  those  that  in  charge 
ar  so  inequall,  eather  suld  the  one  suffer  jjenurie,  or  ellis  suld 
the  uther  have  superfluitie  and  too  muche. 

*  We  juge,   thairfor,    that    everie    Minister   have  sufficient  * 
quhairupoun  to  keip  ane  house,  and  be  sustened  honestlie  in 
all   thingis   necessarie,  alsweill   for  keiping  of  his  house,  as 
claithis,    flesche,    fische,   buykis,    [fewell,]   and   other   thingis 
necessarie,   [fiirth]  of  the  rentis  and  thesaurie*  of  the  kirk, 

*  Vautrollier's  suppressed  edition  the  MS.  It  is  taken  into  the  text  in 
breaks  ofl"  at  the  foot  of  page  560,  with  edit.  1621,  without  notice,  and  I'eads  ae 
these  words,  "  the  widow  and  the  child-  follows  :  "  be  left  comfortles  of  all  pro- 
reu  of  him  who  in."  See  vol.  i.  pp.  vision;  which  provision  for  the  wives," 
xxxii.  xxxix.-xlii.  &c.,  "  is  to  be,"  &c. 

-  In  edit.  1621,  "  serve  in."  *  In  MS.  1560,  "  tlic  same;"  in  edit. 

'This  addition  is  in  the  marriu  of       1621,  '■  and  treasurio." 


198  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

[where  he  serveth,]  at  the  discretioun  of  the  congregatioun, 
eonforme  to  the  qualitie  of  the  persone  and  necessitie  of 
the  tyme.  Quhairin  it  is  thocht  [good]  that  everie  Minister 
sail  have  at  leist  fourtie  hollis  meill,  and  twenty-six  hollis 
malt,  to  find  his  house  hreid  and  drink;  and  mair,  sa  mekilU  as 
the  discretioun  of  the  Kirk  findis  necessarie ;  besydes  money 
for  buying  of  uther  provisioun  to  his  house,  and  other  necessa- 
ries, the  modificatioun  quhairof  is  referred  to  the  jugement  of 
the  kirk,  to  be  maid  everie  yeir  at  the  chosing  of  the  eldaris 
and  deaconis  of  the  kirk.  Providing  alwayis,  that  tliair  be 
advanced  to  everie  minister  suJERcient  provisioun  for  ane  quar- 
ter of  ane  yeir  befoir  hand  of  all  thingis. 

To  him  2  that  travelleth  from  place  to  place,  quhom  we  call 
Superintendentis,  quho  remane  as  it  war  a  moneth  or  less  in 
one  place,  for  the  establishing  of  the  kirk,  and  for  the  same 
purpoise  changeing  to  ane  uther  place,  must  farther ^  con- 
sideratioun  be  liaid.  And,  thairfoir,  to  suche  we  think  sax 
chalder  beir,  nyne  chalder  meill,  thre  chalder  aittis  for  his 
horse,  v*'  markis*  money,  to  be  eikkit  and  pared  at  the  dis- 
cretioun of  the  Prince  and  Counsall  of  the  Realme  ;  to  be 
payit  to  him  yeirlie,  in  maner  foirsaid. 

The  children  of  the  Ministeris  must  have  the  liberties  of  the 
citeis  next  adjacent,  quhair  thair  fatheris  lawbored,  frelie 
granted.  Thai  must^  have  the  privileges  in  sculis,  and  bursis^ 
in  collegis ;  that  is,  that  thai  salbe  susteaned  at  learnyng,  gif 
thai  be  found  apt  tlierto  ;  and  failing  thairof  that  thai  be  put 
to  some  handycraft,  or  exercised  in  some  verteouse  Industrie, 
quhairby  thai  may  be  profitable  membres  in  a  commoun 
wealth. 

*And  the  same  we  requyre  for  thair  doiichteris ;    to  wit, 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "and more  so  much."  "  for  liis  horse;"  and  makes  it   "  six 

2  In  edit.  1621,  "  But  to  him."  himdreth  merkes  money." 

2  In  edit.  1621,  the  words  "  place,"  '  In  MS.  1566,  "  must,"  is  usually 

and  "  farther,"  are  omitted.  written  "  most." 

*  The  edit.   1621,   omits   the   words  « In  edit.  1621,  "  bursissis." 


THE  BUKE  OP  DISCIPLINE.  199 

that  thai  be  verteouslie  brocht  up,  and  honestlie  doted  quhen 
thai  come  to  maturitie  of  yeiris,  at  the  discretioun  of  the  Kirk. 

And  this  in  Goddis  presence  we  witness,  we  requyre  nott 
so  miiche  for  oure  selfis,  or  for  any  that  till  us  apperteneth, 
as  that  we  do  for  the  encrease  of  vertew  and  learnyng, 
and  for  the  proifeit  of  the  posteritie  to  come.  It  is  nott 
to  be  supposed  that  all  man^  will  dedicat  him  self  and 
childrene  so  to  God,  and  to  serve  his  kirk,  that  thai  luyke  for 
no  warldlie  commoditie.  But  this  cankered  nature  quliilk  we 
beare,  is  provokit  to  follow  vertew  quhen  it  seith  honour  and 
profeit  annexit  to  the  same  ;2  as,  contrairlie,  then  is  vertew  of 
mony  despised,  quhen  verteouse  and  godlie  men  leve  without 
honour.  And  sorye  wuld  we  be  that  povertie  suld  discourage 
men  from  studye,  and  from  following  the  way  of  vertew,  by  the 
quhilk  thai  mycht  edifie  the  kirk  and  flock  of  Christ  Jesus. 

Nothing  have  we  spokin  of  the  stipend  of  Readaris,  becaus, 
gif  thai  can  do  nothing  but  reade,  thai  neather  can  be  called 
nor  jugit  trew  ministeris :  And  yit  regard  must  be  haid  to 
thair  lawbouris ;  but  so  that  thai  may  be  spurred  fordwart  to 
vertew,  and  nott  by  a  stipend  appointed  for  thair  reading,  to 
be  reteaned  still  in  that  estait.  To  a  Readare  thairfor  that 
is  laitlie  enterit,  we  think  fourty  markis,  or  mair  or  less,  as 
the  Parochenaris  and  Readaris  can  agree,  sufficient :  providing 
that  he  teiche  the  childrene  of  the  parische,  quhilk  he  must 
do,  besydis  the  reading  of  the  Conimoun  Prayeris,^  and  buykis 
of  the  New  and  Auld  Testamentis.  Gif  frome  Reading  he  be- 
gin to  Exhorte*  and  explane  the  Scriptures,  then  aucht  his 
stipend  to  be  augmented ;  till  finallie  he  come  to  the  honour 
of  a  Minister:  But  and  gif  he  be  found  unable  efter  two 
yeiris,  then  must  he  be  removed  from  that  office,  and  dis- 
chargit  of  all  stipend,  that  another  may  be  provin  als  lang. 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  any  man."  *  There  were  persons  styled  Exhor- 

"  In  edit.  1621,   "  when  it  seeth  pro-  ters,  employed  in  the  Church  about  this 

fite  and  honour  tliercto  annexed ;  and."  time  :  see  next  paragraph. 
'  See  note  1,  page  196. 


200  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

For  this  alwayis  is  to  be  avoyded,  that  none  qulio  is  jugit  un- 
abill  to  come  at  ony  tyme  to  some  reasonable  knawlege, 
quhairby  he  may  edifie  the  Kirk,  sail  perpetuallie  be  nurisshedl 
upone  the  charge  of  the  kirk.  Farther,  it  must  be  avoided, 
that  no  child  or  persone  within  aige,  that  is,  within  xxj  yeir  of 
aige,  be  admitted  to  the  office  of  a  Readare  ;  but  Readaris 
audit  to  be  endowed  with  gravitie,  witt,  and  discretioun,  lest 
be  thair  lychtness  the  Prayeris  or  Scripturis  read  be  of  less 
price  and  estimatioun.  It  is  to  be  noted,  that  the  Readaris 
be  putt  in  by  the  Kirk,  and  admissioun  of  the  Superintendent. 

The  other  sorte  of  Readaris,  quho  have  long  continewed  in 
godliness,  and  have  some  gift  of  Exhortatioun,  quho  are  in 
hope  to  atteane  to  the  degree  of  a  minister,  and  teche  the 
childrene;  we  think  ane  hundreth  markis,  or  mair^  at  the  dis- 
cretioun of  the  Kirk,  may  be  appointed ;  so  that  difference,  as 
said  is,  be  betwix  thame  and  the  ministeris  that  openlie  preche 
the  Word,  and  minister  the  Sacramentis. 

Restis  yit  other  two  sortis  of  peple  to  be  provided  for,  of 
that  quhilk  is  called  the  patrimonye  of  the  Kirk  ;  to  wit,  the 
Poore,  and  Toachearis  of  the  youtheid.  Every  severall  Kirk 
must  provide  for  the  poore  within  the  self;  for  fearful  and 
horrible  it  is,  that  the  poore,  quhom  nott  onlie  God  the  Father 
in  his  law,  but  Christ  Jesus  in  his  evangell,  and  the  Holie 
Spreit  speaking  by  Sanct  Paule,  hath  so  earnestlie  commended 
to  oure  cayre,  ar  universallie  so  contempned  and  dispysed. 
We  ar  nott  patronis  for  stubburne  and  idill  beggaris,  quho, 
rynning  from  place  to  place,  mak  a  craft  of  thair  beggyng, 
quhom  the  Civile  Magistrat  aucht  to  punyshe  ;^  but  for  the 
wedow  and  fatherless,  the  aiged,  impotent,  or  laymed,  quho 
neather  can  nor  may  travell  for  thair  sustentatioun,  we  say, 
that  God  commandeth  his  pepill  to  be  caiifiill;  and  thairfor,  for 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  shall  be  perpetually  •''  The  edit.  1722,  supplies  the  words, 

sustained."  "  ought  to  [compell  to  work,  or  then] 

°  In  edit.  1621,  "  or  mair  or  less."  punish." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  201 

sucho,  as  also  for  personis  of  lionestie  fallin  in[to]  decay  and 
penuritie/  audit  suclie  provisioun^  bo  maid,  tliat  [of]  oure 
aboundance  should  tliair  indigence  be  releaved.  How  this 
most  convenientlie  and  most  casilie  may  be  done  in  everie 
citio,  and  uthir  partis  of  this  Realme,  God  shall  schaw  you 
wisdome  and  the  meanis,  so  that  youre  myndis  be  godlie  thair- 
to  inclyned.  All  must  not  be  suffered  to  beg-  that  gladlie  so 
wald  do  ;  neather  yit  most  beggeris  remane  whare  thei  chuse  ;^ 
but  the  stout  and  strong  beggar  must  be  compelled  to  wirk, 
and  everie  persoun  that  may  noclit  wirk,  must  be  compelled  to 
repair  to  the  place  whare  he  or  scho  was  born,  (unles  of  long 
continuance  thai  have  remaned  in  one  place,)  and  thair  reasson- 
able  provisioun  must  be  maid  for  thair  sustentatioun,  as  the 
Churche  shall  appoint.  The  ordour  nor  soumes,  in  oure  judge- 
mentis,  can  nott  be  particularlie  appointed,  unto  suche  tyme 
as  the  poore  of  everie  citie,  toun,  or  parrishe,  be  compelled  to 
repair  to  the  places  whaire  thei  war  borne,  or  of  thair  resi- 
dences, whaire  thair  names  and  nomber  must  be  tackin  and 
put  in  roll ;  and  then  may  the  Avisdome  of  the  Kirk  appoint 
stipendis  accordinglye. 

I.  Off  the  Superintendentis."^ 
Becaus  we  have  appointed  ane  largear  stipend  to  these  that 
shalbe  Superintendentis  then  to  the  rest  of  the  Ministeris,  we 
have  thocht  goode  to  signifie  unto  your  Honouris,  suche  reas- 

'  In  edit.  1G21,   "  fallen   into  decay  it    will    be    observed   that    the   ■word 

and  poverty."  "  Church"  is  now  employed ;  and  curi- 

-  In  this  place  of  the  MS.  1566,  a  ously  enough,  in  Calderwood's  edition, 

blank  space  occurs,  at  the  conclusion  of  1621,  this  is   reversed,  and  "  Chui'ch," 

one  of  the  re-written  quires,  with  the  which   had   hitherto  been  used,   gives 

catcliword  "■  such  proti-,"  in  connexion  place  to  "  Ivii-k." 

with  the  top  of  the  next  quire,  which  is  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "  where  they  would." 

written   in   a  kind   of  official   square  *  In  edit.  1621,    "The  Head  of  the 

hand,  and  was  probably  a  portion  of  Superintendents."    In  edit.  1722,  Chap, 

the  copy  laid   before   the   Convention,  VI. 
in  January  1561.     Instead  of  "Kirk," 


202  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

sonis  as  moved  us  to  mak  difference  betwix  preacliearis  at  this 
tjme  ;  as  also  how  many  Superintendentis  we  think  neeessarie, 
with  thair  boimdis,  office,  [the  manner  of  their]  electioun,  and 
causses  that  may  deserve  depositioun  frome  that  charge. 

We  considder  that  yf  the  Ministeris  whome  God  hath  en- 
dewed  with  his  [singular]  graces  amangis  us,  should  be  ap- 
pointed to  severall  and  certane  j)lacis,  thair  to  mak  thair  con- 
tinuall  residence,  that  then  the  greatest  part  off  this  Realrae 
should  be  destitute  of  all  doctrine  ;  whiche  should  not  onlie  be 
occasioun  of  greate  murmure,  but  also  should  be  dangerus  to 
the  salvatioun  of  manye.  And  thairfore  we  have  thoclit  it  a 
thing  most  expedient  for  this  tyme,  that  frome  the  whole 
nomber  of  godlie  and  learned  [men],  now  presentlie  in  this 
Realme,  be  selected  twelf  or  ten,  (for  in  sa  mony  Provincis  have 
we  divideit  the  hoill,)  to  whome  charge  and  commandiment 
shalbe  gevin^  to  plant  and  erect  churches,  to  set  ordour  and 
appoint  ministeris  (as  the  formar  Ordour  prescribeth)  to  the 
contreis  that  sail  be  appointed  to  thair  cayre  whaire  none  ar 
now  ;  and  by  these  meannis  [your]  luff  and  common  caire  ower 
all  the  inhabitantis  of  this  Realme  (to  quhome  ye  ar  equall 
debttouris)  shall  evidentlie  appeare ;  as  also  the  simpill  and 
ignorant  (who  perchance  have  never  heard  Christ  Jesus  trewlie 
preached)  shall  come  to  some  knawlege,  by  the  which  manye 
that  now  be  deid  in  superstitioun  and  ignorance  shall  atteane 
to  some  fealling  of  godlynes,  by  the  whiche  thei  may  be  pro- 
vocked  to  searche  and  seik  farther  knawledge  of  God,  and  his 
trew  rcligioun  and  wirschipping.  Whaire  be  the  contrarie,  yf 
thei  shalbe  neglected,  thei  shall  not  onlie  grudge,  but  also  thei 
shall  seik  the  meanis  whairby  thei  may  continew  in  thair  blind- 
nes,  or  returne  to  thair  accustumed  idolatrie.  And  thairfore 
no  thing  desire  Ave  more  earnistlie,  then  that  Christ  Jesus  be 
universallic  once  preached  throuchout  this  Realme ;  whiche 
shall  not  suddanlie  be  unles  that  by  you,  men  be  appointed 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  ten  or  twelve,"  &c.,  and  "  and  should  be  giveu." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  203 

and  compelled  faithfuUie  to  travell  in  suclie  Provinces  as  to 
tliame  shall  be  assignit. 

II.  The  Names  of  the  Placis  oe  Residence,  and  severall 
Dioceses  of  the  Superintendentis. 

Imprimis,  tlie  Superintendent  of  Orknay :  whose  Diocesye 
shalbe  to  the  Ylis  of  Orknay,  Sheitland,  Caithnes,^  and 
Straythnaver.     His  residence  to  be  in  the  Toun  of  Kirkwall. 

2.  The  Superintendent  of  Ross ;  whose  Diocesye  shall  com- 
prehend Ross,  Suthirland,  Murray,  with  the  North  Ylis  of  the 
Sky,  and  the  Lewis,  with  thair  adjacentis.  His  residence  to 
be  in  Channonrie  of  Ross. 

8.  The  Superintendent  of  Ergile  ;  whose  Diocesye  shall  com- 
prehend Argile,  [Kyntyre,]  Lome,  the  South  Ylis,  Arrane  [and] 
Bute,  with  thair  adjacents,  with  Lochquhaber.  His  residence 
to  be  in  [Argylc.] 

4.  The  Superintendent  of  Abirdene ;  whose  Diocesye  is  be- 
twix  Dee  and  Spay,  conteanand  the  schirefdome  of  Abirdene 
and  Bamff.     His  residence  to  be  in  Auld  Abirdene. 

5.  The  Superintendent  of  Brechin  ;  whose  Diocesye  shalbe 
the  hole  schirefdomes  of  Mearnis  and  Anguss,  and  the  Bray  of 
Mar  to  Dee.     His  residence  to  be  in  Brechin. 

6.  The  Superintendent  of  Sanctandrois  ;  whose  Diocesye  shall 
comprehend  the  hoill  schirefdome  of  Fyffe^  and  Fotheringhame, 
to  Striveling  ;  and  the  hoill  schirefdome  of  Perth.  His  resi- 
dence to  be  in  Sanctandrois. 

7.  The  Superintendent  of  Edinburght ;  whose  Diocesye  shall 
comprehend  the  hoill  schirefdomes  of  Lowthiane,  and  Striveling 
on  the  south  syde  of  the  Watter  of  Forth  ;^  and  thairto  is  added, 
by  consent  of  the  hoill  Churche,  Mersse,  Lauderdaill,  and  Wed- 
dell.     His  residence  to  be  in  [Edinburgh.] 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  whose  diocesse  shall  is  omitted  :  it  reads  "  The  Superintend- 

comprehend  the  Isles  Orknay,  Zetland,  ent    of  Fiflfe    and    Fotheringhame  to 

and  Caithnes,"  &c.  Stirling." 

"  In  edit.  1621,  part  of  this  sentence  ^  See  following  note,  page  204. 


204  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

8.  Tlie  Superintendent  of  Jedburgh ;  whose  Diocesje  shall 
comprehend  Thevedaill,  Tweddell,  Liddisdaill,^  with  the  For- 
rest of  Ethrick.     His  residence  to  be  [Jedburgh.] 

9.  The  Superintendent  of  Glasgow ;  whose  Diocesje  shall 
comprehend  Cliddisdale,  RenfreAv,  Menteith,  Levinax,  Kyle, 
and  Cunvnghame.     His  residence  to  be  in  Grlasgow. 

10.  The  Superintendent  of  Dumfriese ;  whose  Diocesye  .sail 
comprehend  Galloway,  Carrik,  Niddisdaill,  Annanderdaill,  with 
the  rest  of  the  Daillis  in  the  West.  His  residence  to  be  in 
Drumfreise. 

Those  men  must  not  be  .suffeiTed  to  leave  as  your  idill 
Bischopis  have  done  heirtofore ;  neather  most  thei  remane 
whaire  gladlie  thei  wald :  But  thei  must  be  preachearis  thame 
selves,  and  suche  as  may  mak  no  long  residence  in  ony  one 
place,  till  thair  Churches  be  2  planted  and  provided  of  Minis- 
ters, or  at  the  leist  of  Reidaris. 

Charge  must  be  gevin  to  thame  that  thei  remane  in  no  one 
place  above  twenty  or  threttye^  dayis  in  thair  visitatioun,  till 
thei  have  passed  throucht  thair  hoill  boundis.  Thei  must 
thryise  everie  weake  at  the  least  preache  ;  and  when  thei 
returne  to  thair  principall  town  and  residence,  thei  must  be 
likewise  exerci-sit  in  jn-eacheing  and  in  edificatioun  of  the 
Churche  thaire ;  and  yet  thei  must  not  be  suffered  to  continew 
thair  so  long,  as  thei  may  seame  to  neglect  thaire  uthir 
Churches :  but  efter  that  thei  have  remaned  in  thair  cheif 
toun  thre  or  four  monethis  at  most,  thei  shall  be  compelled 
(onles  be  seiknes  onlie  thei  be  reteaned,)  to  re-enter  in  visita- 
tioun, in  which  thei  shall  not  onlie  preache,  but  also  examyn 
the  life,  diligence,  and  behaviour  of  the  Ministeris ;  as  also  the 

^  The  words   after   "  the  Watter   of  whole  Kirk,  the  Merse,  Lawderdaill  and 

Forth,"  in  clause  7,  are  transferred  to  Weddaill,  with  the  Forrest  of  Ettrick." 

this   clause,   in   edit.    1621:   it  reads,  *  In  edit.  1021,  "  may  not  make  long 

"  whose  Dioccsse  shall  comprehend  the  residence  in  any  place  till  thair  kirkis." 

whole  Tivitdail,  Tweedaill,  Liddisdail,  ^  The  words  "  or  threttye,"  (thirty,) 

and  thereto  is  added  by  consent  of  the  omitted  in  edit.  1621. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  205 

ordour  of  tbaire  Churches,  [and]  the  maneris  of  the  people. 
Thei  must  farther  consider  how  the  poore  he  provided:  how  the 
youth  be  instructed :  thei  must  admonische  wliaire  admo- 
nitioun  neidith,  dresse  suche  thingis  as  by  goodc  counsall  thei 
be  able  to  appease :  and,  finalie,  thei  must  note  suche  crymes 
as  be  haynouse,  that  by  the  censure  of  the  Church  the  same 
may  be  corrected. 

Yf  the  Superintendent  be  fund  negligent  in  any  of  these 
cheaf  pointis  of  his  office,  and  especiallie  yf  he  be  noted  negli- 
gent in  preacheing  of  the  word,  and  in  visitatioun  of  his 
Churches  ;  or  yf  he  be  convict  of  ony  of  those  ciymis,  which 
in  the  common  Ministeris  ar  dampned,  he  must  be  deposit, 
Avithout  respect  of  his  persoun  or  office. 

III.  Off  the  Electioun  of  Superintendentis. 

In  this  present  necessitie,  the  nominatioun,  examinatioun, 
and  admissioun  of  Superintendentis,  can  not  be  so  strait  as  we 
require,  and  as  afterward  it  must  be. 

For  this  present,  thairfore,  we  think  sufficient  that  eather 
your  Honouris,  by  your  selves,  nominat  sa  mony  as  may  serve 
the  fore-written  jjrovincis ;  or  that  ye  gyff  commissioun  to  suche 
men,  as  in  whome  ye  suppoise  the  feir  of  God  [to  be]  to  do  the 
same ;  and  that  the  same  men  being  called  in  your  presence 
shalbe  by  you,  and  by  suche  as  your  Honouris  please  call  unto 
3^ou  for  consultatioun  in  that  case,  appointed  to  thair  provinces. 
We  think  it  expedient  and  necessarie,  that  als  weill  the  gentil- 
men,  as  burgesses  of  everie  diocese,  be  maid  privie  at  the  same 
tyme  to  the  electioun  of  the  Superintendent,  alsweill  to  bring 
the  Churche  in  sum  practise  of  hir  libertie,  as  to  mak  the 
pastor  better  favorit  of  the  flocke  whome  thame  selves  have 
chosin.  Yff  your  Honouris  can  not  find  for  this  present  sa 
many  able  men  as  the  necessitie  requireth,  then,  in  our  judge- 
mentis,  more  proffitable  it  is  that  those  provincis  vaik  till 
God   provide   better,    than   that    men   unabill   to    edifie  and 


206  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

governe  the  Cliurclie  be  suddanlie  placit  in  that  charge.  For 
experience  hath  taught  us,l  what  pestilence  hath  bene  en- 
gendred  in  the  Church  by  men  unabill  to  discharge  thair 
offices. 

Wlien,  thairfore,  after  thre  yeiris  any  Superintendent  shall 
departe,  or  chance  to  be  deposed,  the  cheaf  town  within  that 
province,  to  wit,  the  Ministeris,  Elders,  and  Deaconis,  with  the 
Magistrat  and  Counsall  of  the  same  town,  shall  nominat,  and 
by  publict  edictis  proclame,  alsweill  to  the  Superintendent,  as 
to  twa  or  thre  provinces  nixt  adjacent,  two  or  thre  of  the  most 
learned  and  most  godlie  Ministeris  within  the  hole  realme, 
that  frome  amangis  thame,  one  with  publict  consent  may  be 
electit  and  ajipointed  to  the  office  then  vaiking :  and  this  the 
cheaf  Town  shall  be  bound  to  do  within  the  terme  of  twenty 
dayis.  Wliiche  being  expired  and  no  man  presented,  then 
shall  thre  of  the  nixt  adjacent  provincis,  with  consent  of  thair 
Superintendentis,  Ministeris,  and  Elderis,  enter  in  into  the 
rycht  and  priviledgeis  of  the  cheaf  town,  and  shall  present 
everie  one  of  thame  one,  or  two  yf  thei  list,  to  the  cheaf  town, 
to  be  examinated  as  the  Ordour  requireth.  As  also,  it  shalbe 
lauchfull  for  all  the  churches  of  the  Diocesye  to  nominat  with- 
in the  same  tyme  suclie  personis  as  thei  think  worthye  to 
stand  in  electioun ;  which  man  be  put  in  edict.  2 

After  the  nominationis  be  maid,  publict  edictis  must  be 
send,  first  warnyng  all  men  that  have  any  objectioun^  againis 
the  personis  nominatit,  or  against  ony  ane  of  thame,  to  be 
present  in  the  cheaf  toun  at  day  and  place  affixit,  to  object 
what  thei  can  against  the  electioun  of  any  one  of  thame. 
Threttye  dayis  we  think  sufficient  to  be  assigned  thairto ; 
thretty  dayis,  we  meane,  after  that  the  nominatioun  be  maid. 

Wliiche  day  of  electioun  being  come,  the  hoill  Ministeris  of 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "hath  teached  us."  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "sent  forth,  warning 

*  In  edit.  1621,  "  Electioun,  wlio  all      all  men  that  have  any  exception." 
must  be  put  in  an  Edict." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  207 

that  ProAdnce,  with  thre  or  mol  of  the  Superintendentis  nixt 
adjacent,  or  that  sail  thairto  be  named,2  shall  examyn  not 
onlie  the  learnying-j  but  also  the  maneris,  prudence,  and  habi- 
litie  to  governe  the  Church e,  of  all  those  that  ar  nominat;  that 
he  who  shallbe  fund  most  worthye,  may  be  burdened  with  the 
charge.  Yif  the  Ministeris  of  the  whole  Province  should  bring 
with  them  the  voitis  of  those  that  war  committit  to  thair 
caire,  the  electioun  should  be  the  more  fre ;  hot  alwayis,  the 
voitis  of  all  those  that  convene  must  be  requirit.^  The  exami- 
nationis  must  be  publictlie  maid ;  those  that  stand  in  elec- 
tioun must  publictlie  preache ;  and  men  must  be  chargeit  in 
the  name  of  God,  to  voit  according  to  conscience,  and  not  efter 
affectioun.  Yf  ony  thing  be  objectit  against  any  that  stand^ 
in  electioun,  the  Superintendentis  and  Ministeris  must  con- 
sidder  whether  the  objectioun  be  maid  of  conscience  or  of 
malice,  and  thei  must  ansueir  accordinglie.  Other  ceremonies 
then  scharp  examinatioun,  approbatioun  of  the  Ministeris  and 
Superintendentis,  with  the  publict  consent  of  the  Elderis  and 
People,  then  present,^  we  can  not  allow. 

The  Superintendent  being  electit,  and  appointed  to  his 
charge,  must  be  subjected  to  the  censur  and  correctioun  of  the 
Ministeris  and  Elderis,  not  onlie  of  his  cheaf  Toun,  but  also  of 
the  hoill  Province  over  the  whiche  he  is  appointed  oversear. 

Yf  his  oflencis^  be  knawin,  and  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis 
of  his  Province'^  be  negligent  in  correcting  him,  then  the  nixt 
one  or  two  Superintendentis,  with  thair  Ministeris  and  Elderis, 
may  convene  him,  and  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis  of  his  cheaf 
toun,  (provideit  that  it  be  within  his  awin  Province  or  cheaf 
toun,)  and  may  accuse  and  correct  alsweale  the  Superinten- 

1    In  edit.    1621,    "  with  three  or  *  lu  edit.  1621,  «  against  him  that 

foure."  standeth." 

-  In  edit.  1621,   "or  that  shall  be  ^  E(iit.  1621,  omits  "the  present." 

thareto  nominated."  ^  In  edit,  1621,  "  his  offence." 

3  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  votes  of  them  '  In  edit.  1621,  "  Elders  of  the  Toun 

that  convene  should  be  required."  and  Province." 


208  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

dent  in  those  tliingis  that  ar  worthy  of  correctioun,  as  the 
Ministeris  and  Elderis  for  thair  negligence  and  ungodlie  toUe- 
rance  of  his  offencis. 

Whatsoever  cryme  deserve  correctioun  or  dej^ositioun  of  any 
other  minister,  deserveth  the  samin  in  the  Superintendent, 
without  exceptioun  of  persoun. 

After  that  the  Churche  be  establischeit,!  and  thre  yeiris  be 
passed,  we  require  that  na  man  be  callit  to  the  office  of  a 
Superintendent,  who  hath  not  tuo  yeiris  at  tlie  leist  gevin  de- 
claratioun  of  his  faithfull  lawbouris  in  the  ministerie  of  some 
churclie.^ 

No  Superintendent  may  be  transferrit  at  the  plesour  or  re- 
queist  of  ony  one  Province ;  no,  not  witliout  the  consent  of  tlie 
whole  counsall  of  the  Churche,  and  that  for  grave  causses  and 
considderationis. 

Off  one  thing,  in  the  end,  we  must  admonische  your  Ho- 
nouris,  to  wit,  that  in  appointing  Superintendentis  for  this 
present,  ye  disappoint  not  your  cheaf  Tounis,  and  whair  learn- 
ing is  exercised,  of  suche  ministeris  as  more  may  proffit  be  re- 
sidence in  one  place,  than  be  continewall  travell  frome  place 
to  place :  For  if  ye  so  do,  the  youth  in  those  placis  shall 
lacke  the  profound  interpretatioun  of  the  Scripturis ;  and  so 
shall  it  be  long  before  that  your  gardenis  send  furth  many 
plantis  ;  whair  by  the  contrarie,  yf  one  or  tuo  tounis  be  con- 
tinewallie  exercised  as  thei  may,  the  Commoun -wealth  shall 
schortlie  taist  of  thair  fruct,^  to  the  confort  of  the  godlie. 


For  the  Sciiollis.^ 

Seeing  that  the  office  and  dewtie  of  the  godlie  Magistrat  is 
nocht   onlie  to  purge  the  Churche  of  God  from  all  supersti- 

'  In  edit.  1G21,  "  Kirk  is  establi.slied."  =>  In  edit.  1G21,  "  feast  of  their  fruit." 

^n  edit.  1621,  "in  the  niinistrie  of  ■•   lu   edit.    1722,    "  Chap.    VII.   Of 

the  same  Kirk."  Schools  [and  Universities.]" 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  209 

tioun,  and  to  set  it  at  libertie  from  bondage  of  tyrranis  ;l  but 
also  to  provide,  to  the  uttermost  of  his  power,  how  it  may 
abide  in  the  same  puritie  to  the  posteriteis^  following ;  we  can 
not  but  frelie^  communicat  our  judgementis  with  your  Ho- 
nouris  in  this  behalf. 

I.  The  necessitie  of  Sciiollis.-^ 

Seing  that  Grod  hath  determined  that  his  Churche  heir  in 
earth,  shallbe  tawght  not  be  angellis  but  by  men ;  and  seing 
that  men  ar  born  ignorant  of  all  godlynes  ;  and  seing,  also, 
now  God  ceassitho  to  illuminat  men  miraculuslie,  suddanlie 
changeing  thame,  as  that  he  did  his  Apostlis  and  utheris  in 
the  Primitive  Churche  :  oif  necessitie  it  is  that  your  Hoiiouris 
be  most  cairfull  for  the  virtuous  educatioun,  and  godlie  up- 
bringing of  the  youth  of  this  Realme,  yf  eathir  ye  now  thirst  un- 
feanedlie  [for]  the  advancement  of  Christis  glorie,  or  yit  desire 
the  continewance  of  his  benefits  to  the  generatioun  following. 
For  as  the  youth  must  succeed  till  us,  so  audit  we  to  be  cair- 
full that  thei  have  the  knaAvlege  and  eniditioun,  to  proffit  and 
confort  that  whiche  aucht  to  be  most  deare  to  us,  to  wit,  the 
Churche  and  Spouse  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 

Off  necessitie  thairfore  we  judge  it,  that  everie  severall 
Churche  have  a  Scholmaister^  appointed,  suche  a  one  as  is 
able,  at  least,  to  teache  Gramraer  and  the  Latine  toung,  yf 
the  Toun  be  of  any  reputatioun.  Yf  it  be  Upaland,  whaire  the 
people  convene  to  doctrine  bot  once  in  the  weeke,  then  must 
eathir  the  Reidar  or  the  Minister  thair  appointed,  take  cayre 

*  In  edit.  1621,  "from  tyranny  and  fessions,  in  1722,   has  not  only  niini- 

bondage."  bered  the  chapters  and  sub-divisions, 

-  In  edit.  1621,  "  in  some  purity  in  but  also  the  paragi-aphs  of  each  chap- 

the  posterity."  ter. 

'In  edit.  1621,  "  we  can  butfi-eely."  ^  In   edit.   1621,    "  ignorant  of  God 

■•  In   the   present   edition,   the  sub-  and  of  all  godliness,  and  seing  also  he 

divisions  have  been  numbered,  I.,  II.,  ceasses." 

&c.    The  Editor  of  the  Collection  of  Con-  « In  edit.  1621,  "  Kirk  have  one." 

VOL.  II.  O 


210  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

over  the  children  and  youth  of  the  parische,  to  instruct  them 
in  thair  first  rudimentis,  and  especiallie  in  the  Catechisme,i 
as  we  have  it  now  translaited  in  the  Booke  of  our  Common 
Ordour,  callit  the  Ordour  of  Geneva.^  And  farther,  we  think 
it  expedient,  that  in  everie  notable  toun,  and  especiallie  in 
the  toun  of  the  Superintendent,  [there]  be  erected  a  Colledge, 
in  whiche  the  Artis,  at  least  Logick  and  Rethorick,  togidder 
with  the  Tongues,  be  read  be  sufficient  Maisteris,  for  whome 
honest  stipendis  must  be  appointed :  as  also  provisioun  for 
those  that  be  poore,  and  be  nocht  able  by  them  selfis,  nor  by 
thair  freindis,  to  be  sustened  at  letteris,  especiallie  suche  as 
come  frome  Landwaii;. 

The  fi-ute  and  commoditie  heirof  shall  suddanlie  appeare. 
For,  first,  the  youtheid  and  tender  children  sail  be  nurischit 
and  brocht  up  in  virtue,  in  presence  of  thair  freindis ;  by 
whose  good  attendence  many  inconvenientis  may  be  avoided, 
in  the  which  the  youth  commonlie  fallis,  eathir  by  too  muche^ 
libertie,  whiche  thei  have  in  strange  and  unknawin  placis, 
whill  thei  can  not  rule  them  selfis ;  or  ellis  for  lacke  of  gude 
attendence,  and  of  suche  necessiteis  as  thair  tender  aige  re- 
quireth.  Secoundarlie,  The  exercise  of  the  children  in  everie 
Churche  shall  be  great  instructioun  to  the  aigeit.^ 

Last,  The  great  Schollis  callit  Universiteis,  shallbe  re- 
pleanischit  with  those  that  be  ajjt  to  learnyng  ;  for  this  must 

^  That  is,  the  translation  of  Calvin's  ceived  by  the  Chui'ch  of  Scotland,  the 

Catechism  :  see  subsequent  note.  Geneva  edition  of  15o8  was  reprinted 

*  It  was  so  named  from  having  been  at  Edinburgh  in  1562 ;  and  it  contiaued 

compiled  for  the  use  of  the  English  con-  with  occasional  alterations,  to  be  pre- 

gregation  at  Geneva,  while  Knox  was  fixed  to  most  editions  of  the  old  metrical 

minister    there.     It   bears    this    title :  version  of  the  Psalms,  printed  in  this 

"  The  Forme  of  Prayers  and  Winistra-  country.      The  translation  of  Calvin's 

tion  of  the  Sacraments,  &c.,  used  in  the  Catechism,  first  reprinted  at  Edinburgh 

English  Churche  at  Geneva,"  &c.    From  in  1564,  was  also  usually  adjoined  to 

Knox's  share  in  this  book  of  Common  the  volume. 
Order,  it  will  be  included  in  a  sub-  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "  over  much." 

sequent  volume  of  his  Works.     Having  <  In  edit.  1722,    "to  the   aged  and 

been   subsequently   approved   and  re-  unlearned." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  211 

be  cairfullie  provideit,  that  no  fader,  of  what  estait  or  condi- 
tioun  that  ever  he  he,  use  his  children  at  his  awin  fantasie, 
especialhe  in  thair  youth-hcade ;  but  all  must  be  compelled 
to  bring-  up  thair  children  in  leamyng  and  virtue. 

The  riche  and  potent  may  not  be  permitted  to  suffer  thair 
children  to  spend  thair  youth  in  vane  idilnes,  as  heirtofore  thei 
have  done.  But  thei  must  be  exhorted,  and  by  the  censure  of 
the  Churche  compelled  to  dedicat  thair  sones,  by  goode  exercise,! 
to  the  proffit  of  the  Churche  and  to  the  Common-wealth  ;  and 
that  thei  must  do  of  thair  awin  expensses,  becaus  thei  ar  able. 
The  children  of  the  poore  must  be  supported  and  sustenit  on 
the  charge  of  the  Churche,  till  tryell  be  tackin,  whethir  the 
spirit  of  docilitie  be  fund  in  them  or  not.  Yf  thei  be  fund 
apt  to  letteris  and  learnyng,  then  may  thei  not  (we  meane, 
neathir  the  sonis  of  the  riche,  nor  yit  the  sonis  of  the  poore,) 
be  permittit  to  reject  learnyng- ;  but  must  be  chargeit  to  con- 
tinew  thair  studie,  sa  that  the  Commoun-wealthe  may  have 
some  confort  by  them.  And  for  this  purpose  must  discreit, 
learned,  and  grave  men  be  appointit  to  visit  all  Schollis  for 
the  tiyell  of  thair  exercise,  proffit,  and  continewance ;  to  Avit, 
the  Ministeris  and  Elderis,  with  the  best  learned  in  everie 
toun,  shall  everie  quarter  tak  examinatioun^  how  the  youth 
hath  proffitted. 

A  certane  tyme  must  be  appointed  to  Reiding,  and  to  learn- 
ing of  the  Catechisme  ;  ane  certane  tyme  to  the  Grammar,  and 
to  the  Latine  toung ;  ane  certane  tyme  to  the  Artis,  Philoso- 
phie,  and  to  the  [other]  Toungis  ;  and  a  certane  to  that  studie 
in  which  thei  intend  cheaflie  to  travell  for  the  proffit  of  the 
Commoun- wealth.  Whiche  tyme  being  expired,  we  meane  in 
everie  course,  the  children  must  eatliir  proceid  to  farther 
knawledge,  or  ellis  thei  must  be  send  to  sum  handie-craft,  or  to 

1  la  edit.  1722,  "their  sonnes,  by  Elders,  and  the  rest  of  learned  men  in 
training  them  up  in  good  exercises."  every  town,  shall  in  every  qiiarter  make 

*  In  edit.  1621,    "  the  Minister  and       examination." 


212  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

sum  othir  proffitable  exercise  ;  provideit  alwayis,  that  first  thei 
liave  the  forme  of  knawledge-^  of  Christiane  religioun,  to  wit, 
the  knawledge  of  Goddis  law  and  commandimentis ;  the  use 
and  office  of  the  same  ;  the  cheaf  articulis  of  our  beleve  ;  the 
richt  forme  to  pray  unto  God ;  the  nomber,  use,  and  effect  of 
the  sacramentis  ;  the  trew  knawledge  of  Christ  Jesus,  of  his 
office  and  natures,  and  suche  otheris,^  as  without  the  knaw- 
ledge wheirof,  neathir  deservith  [any]  man  to  be  named  a 
Christiane,^  neather  aught  ony  to  be  admittit  to  the  participa- 
tioun  of  the  Lordis  Tabill :  And  thairfore,  these  principallis 
aught  and  must  be  learned  in  the  youth-heid. 

II.  The  tymes  appointed  to  everie  Course. 
Two  yearis  we  think  more  then  sufficient  to  learne  to  read 
perfitelie,  to  answer  to  the  Catechisme,  and  to  have  some  en- 
tresse  in  the  first  rudimontis  of  Grammar ;  to  the  full  accom- 
plischement  whairof,  (we  meane  of  the  Grammar,)  we  think 
other  thre  or  foure  yearis  at  most,  sufficient.  To  the  Artis,  to 
wit,  Logick  and  Rethorick,  and  to  the  Greik  toung,  foure 
yeiris ;  and  the  rest,  till  the  aige  of  twenty- foure  yearis  to  be 
spent  in  that  studye,  whairin  the  learnar  wald  proffit  the 
Churche  or  Commoun-wealth,  be  it  in  the  Lawis,  or  Physick  or 
Divinitie :  Wliiche  tyme  of  twenty-foure  yearis  being  spent  in 
the  schollis,  the  learnar  most  be  removed  to  serve  the  Churche 
or  Commoun-wealth,  unless  he  be  fund  a  necessarie  Reidare  in 
the  same  Colledge  or  Universitie.  Yf  God  shall  move  your 
heartis  to  establische  and  execut  this  Ordour,  and  put  these 
thingis  in  practise,  your  hole  Realme,  (we  doubt  nott,)  within 
few  yearis,  shall  serve  the  self  of  trew  preacharis,  and  of  uther 
officiaris  necessarie  for  your  Common-wealth. 

'  In  IMS.  1566,   "  have  the  formal-  -  In  edit.  1621,  "  such  other  points." 

knawledge;"  in  edit.  1621,  "  that  they  ^  In  edit.  1621,   "  neither  any  man 

have  further  knawledge."  deserves  to  be  called  a  Christian." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  213 

III.  The  Erectioun  of  Universiteis. 

The  Grammar  Schollis  and  of  the  Toiingis  being  erectit  as 
we  have  said,  nixt  we  think  it  necessarie  thair  be  three  Uni- 
versities in  this  whole  Reahne,  establischeit  in  the  Tounis 
accustumed.i  The  first  in  Sanctandrois,*^  the  secound  in 
Glasgow,^  and  the  thrid  in  Abirdene.^ 

And  in  the  first  Universitie  and  principal!,  whiche  is  Sanct- 
ANDROis,  thair  be  thre  Colledgeis.  And  in  the  first  Colledge, 
quhilk  is  the  entre  of  the  Universitie,  thair  be  four  classes 
or  saigeis :  the  first,  to  the  new  Suppostis,  shalbe  onlie  Dia- 
lectique  ;  the  nixt,  onlie  Mathematique  ;5  the  thrid,  of  Phisick 
onlie  ;  the  fourt  of  Medicine.  And  in  the  secound  Colledge, 
twa  classes  or  seigeis :  the  first,  in^  Morall  Philosophie ;  the 
secound  in  ^  the  Lawis.  And  in  the  thrid  College,  twa  classes 
or  seigeis :  the  first,  in^  the  Toungis,  to  wit,  Greek  and 
Hebreu  ;  the  secound,  in  ^  Divinitie. 

IV.  Ofe  Reidaris,  and  of  the  Greis,  off  Tyme, 

AND  StUDYE.7 

Item,  In  the  first  College,  and  in  the  first  classe,  shallbc 
ane  Reidar  of  Dealectique,^  wha  shall  accomplische  his  course 
thairof  in  one  yeare.  In  the  Mathematique,^  whiche  is  the 
secound  classe,  shalbe  ane  Reidar  who  shall  compleit  his 
course  of  Arithmetique,^  Geometrie,  Cosmographie,  and  Astro- 

»Inedit.  1621,  "intlireeTownes."—  *  In  edit.  1621,   "  Dialecticte,'"  and 

It  will  be  observed  that  this  was  in  "  Mathematicaj." 

1560  ;  and  that  the  University  of  Edin-  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "  of." 

burgh  was  not  founded  till  the  year  '  In  edit.  1621,  "  Of  Readers,  and  of 

1582;  and  Marischall  College  and  Uni-  the  Degi-ees,  and  time  of  Study;"  to 

versity  of  Aberdeen  till  1593.  this  the  edition  1722  adds,    "  and   of 

»  The    University   of  St.   Andrews,  Principals  and  Rector,  and  of  Bursars." 

founded  in  the  year  1411.  *  In  ecUt.  1621,   '^  Dialectica,  Wathc- 

^  The  University  of  Glasgow,  foimded  matica,  Arithmetica."     In  that  edition, 

in  1450.  thi-oughout  this  chai^ter,  most  of  these 

<  The  University  and  King's  College  names  of  the  branches  of  study  are  in 

of  Aberdeen,  founded  in  1494.  like  manner  given  in  a  Latin  form. 


214  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

logie,  in  cane  yeare.  In  the  third  classe,  shalbe  ane  Reidar  of 
Naturall  Philosophie,  who  shall  compleit  his  coiirse  in  a 
yeare.  And  wha  efter  thir  thre  yearis,  by  tryell  and  exami- 
natioun,  shall  be  fund  sufficientlie  instructit  in  thir  aforesaid 
sciences,  shall  be  Laureat  and  Gradiiat  in  Philosophie.  In  the 
fourt  classe,  shall  be  ane  Reidar  of  Medicine,  Avho  shall  com- 
pleit his  course  in  five  years :  after  the  study  of  the  whiche 
tyme,  being  by  examinatioun  fund  sufficient,  thei  shall  be 
graduat  in  Medicine. 

Item,  In  the  Secound  Colledge,  in  the  first  classe,  one 
Reader  onlie  in  the  Ethicques,  CEcouomicques,  and  Politiques, 
who  shall  compleit  his  course  in  the  space  of  one  yeare.  In 
the  secound  classe,  shall  be  tuo  Reidaris  in  the  Municipall  and 
Romane  Lawis,  who  sail  compleit  thair  coursses  in  four  yeares ; 
after  the  whiche  tyme,  being  by  examinatioun  fund  sufficient, 
thei  shalbe  graduat  in  the  Lawis. 

Item,  In  the  third  Colledge,  in  the  first  classe,  ane  Reidar 
of  the  Hebreu,  and  ane  uther  of  the  Greek  toung,  wha  sail 
compleit  the  grammeris  thairof  in  half  ane  yeare,  l  and  the 
remanent  of  the  yeare,  the  Reidar  of  the  Hebreu  shall  inter- 
preit  ane  booke  of  Moses,  the  2  Propheitis,  or  the  Psalmes ;  sa 
that  his  course  and  classe  shall  continew  ane  yeare.  The  Rei- 
dar of  the  Greek  shall  interpreit  some  booke  of  Plato,  to- 
gidder  with  some  place  of  the  New  Testament.  And  in  the 
secound  classe,  shalbe  tuo  Reideris  in  Divinitie,  that  ane  in 
the  New  Testament,  that  uthir  in  the  Auld,  who  saU  compleit 
thair  course  in  five  yearis.  After  whiche  tyme,  who  sail  be 
fund  by  examinatioun  sufficient  shall  be  graduat  in  Divinitie. 

Item,  We  think  expedient  that  nane  be  admittit  unto  the 
first  Colledge,  and  to  be  Suppostis  of  the  Universitie,  onles  he 
have  frome  the  Maister  of  the  Scheie,  and  the  Minister  of  the 
toun  whair  he  was  instructed  in  the  toungis,  ane  testimoniall 
of  his  learnyng,  docilitie,  aige,  and  parentage ;  and  likewayis 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  in  three  monetlis."  -  In  edit.  1722,  '•  or  of  the." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  215 

triall  to  be  tanei  be  certan  Exaniinatouris,  deput  be  the  Rec- 
toiir  and  Principallis  of  the  same,  and  yf  he  be  fund  sufficient- 
lie  instructit  in  Dialectick,^  he  shall  incontinent,  that  same 
yeare,  be  promoted  to  the  classe  of  Mathematicque. 

Item,  That  nane  be  admittit  to  the  classe  of  the  Medicine 
bot  he  that  shall  have  his  testimoniall  of  his  tyme  weall  spent 
in  Dialecticque,  Mathematique,  and  Phisicque,  and  of  his  do- 
cilitie  in  the  last. 

Item,  That  nane  be  admittit  unto  the  classe  of  the  Lawis, 
but  he  that  shall  have  sufficient  testimoniallis  of  his  tyme 
Weill  spent  in  Dialecticque,  Mathematique,  Phisique,  Ethick, 
(Economiques,  and  Pollitiques,  and  of  his  docilitie  in  the  last. 

Item,  That  nane  be  admittit  unto  the  classe  and  seige  of 
Divines  ^  bot  he  that  shall  have  sufficient  testimonialles  of  his 
tyme  weill  spent  in  Dialecticque,  Mathematicque,  Phisique, 
Ethique,  (Economique,  Morall  Philosophie,*  and  the  Hebreu 
toung',  and  of  his  docilitie  in  the  Morall  Philosophie  and  the 
Hebreu  toung.  But  neathir  shall  suche  as  will  applye  them 
to  hear  the  LaAvis,  be  compelled  to  heir  Medicine ;  neathir 
suche  as  applye  them  to  hear  Divinitie  be  compellit  to  hear 
eathir  Medicine  or  yit  the  Lawis. 

Item,  In  the  Secound  Universitie,  whiche  is  Glasgu,  shal- ''^^"^^ '^ 

'  '  '  VERSITIE 

be  twa  Colledgeis  alanerlie.  In  the  first  shalbe  ane  classe 
of  Dialecticque,  ane  uther  in  Mathematicque,  the  thrid  in 
Phisique,  ordourit  in  all  sortis  as  Sanctandrois. 

Item,  In  the  Secound  CoUedge,  four  classes ;  tlie  first  in 
Morall  Philosophie,  Ethiques,  (Economiques,  and  Pollitiques ; 
the  secound  of  the  Municipale  and  Romano  Lawis ;  the  thrid 
of  the  Hebreu  toung  ;  the  fourt  in  Divinitie  :  Which  shall  be 
ordourit  in  all  sortis,  conforme  to  it  we  have  writtin  in  the 
ordour  of  the  Universitie  of  Sanctandrois.^ 

>  In  edit.  1621,  «  triall  be  taken."  1 1n  edit.  1621,  "  and  Politica." 

2  In  edit.  1621,  "  in  the  Dialectica."  s  The  Editor  in  1722,  says,  "  There  is 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  Seage  of  Divinity.""       here  no  mention  made  of  Medicine  or 


216  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

The  Tlirid  Universitie  of  Abirdene  sliall  be  confonne  to 
this  Universitie  of  Glasgou,  in  all  sortis. 

Item,  We  think  neidfull,  that  thair  be  chosin  of  the  body 
of  the  Universitie  to  everie  Colledge  a  man  ^  of  learnyng,  dis- 
cretioun,  and  diligence,  who  shall  resave  the  haill  rentis  of 
the  Colledge,  and  distribute  the  same  according  to  the  erec- 
tioun  of  the  Colledge,  and  shall  dalie  hearkin  the  dyet 
comptis ;  adjoynyng  to  him  oulklie  ane  of  the  Readeris  or 
Regentis,  above  whome  he  shall  [take]  attendence  upoun 
thair  diligence,  alsweill  in  thair  reading,  as  exercitioun'''  of  the 
3^outh  in  the  mater  taught ;  upoun  the  polecye  and  uphold  of  the 
place  ;  and  for  punischement  of  crymes,  shall  bald  ane  oulklie  8 
conventioun  with  the  haill  memberis  of  the  Colledge.  He 
shall  be  comptabile  yearlie  to  the  Superintendent,  Rectour, 
and  rest  of  the  Principallis  convened,  about  the  first  of  No- 
vember. His  electioun  slialbe  in  this  sort :  Thair  shalbe  thre 
of  the  maist  sufficient  men  of  the  Universitie,  (not  Principallis 
alreaddie,)  nominat  by  the  memberis  of  the  College,  sworne  to 
follow  thair  conscience,  whais  Principall  is  departed,  and 
publictlie  proponed  throu  the  Avhole  Universitie.  Efter  the 
whiche  tyme  eght  dayis,  the  Superintendent,  by  him  self  or 
his  speciall  Procuratour,  Avith  the  Rectour  and  rest  of  the 
Principallis,  as  ane  chuptour  convened,  shall  conferme  ane  of 
the  three  thei  think  maist  sufficient,  being  afore  sworne  to 
do  the  same  with  singill  ee,^  but  respect  to  feid  or  favour. 

Item,  In  everie  Colledge,  we  think  neidfull  at  the  least  ane 
Steward,  ane  Cooke,  ane  Gardnar,  ane  Portar,  wha  shall  be 
subject  to  discipline  of  the  Principale,  as  the  rest. 

Itevt,  That  everie  Universitie  have  ane  Beddale  subject  to 

Greek ;  but  it  is  probable  that  a  Profes-  iii  the  edit.  1722,   "a  Princii)all,  who 

sor  of  Greek   was   designed  both  for  must  be  a  man  of  learnmg." 
Glasgow  and  Aberdeen  for  the  reason  '  In  edit.  1621,  "  as  exercising." 

given   in  the   remark  on  25  §  of  this  ^  la  edit.  1621,  "hold  a  weekly." 

chapter  :"   (Note  2,  page  219.)  ^  In  edit.  1621,  "  with  a  single  ej'e." 

•  In  edit.  1621,   "  a  principal  man  :" 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  217 

serve  at  all  tymes  throucliout  the  whole  Universitie,  as  the 
Rectour  and  Principallis  shall  command. 

Item,  That  everie  Universitie  have  ane  Rectour  chosin  from 
yeare  to  yeare  as  shall  follow.  The  Princii)allis  being  con- 
vened with  the  haill  Regentis  chaptourlie,  shall  be  sworne,  that 
everie  man  in  his  roume  shall  nominat  suche  one  as  his  con- 
science shall  testifie  to  be  maist  sufficient  to  beare  suche 
charge  and  dignitie ;  and  thre  of  them  that  shalbe  oftest  no- 
minat shalbe  put  in  edict  publictlie,  fiftene  dayis  afore  Michael- 
mess  ;  and  then  shall  on  ]\Iichaelmess  Evin  convene  the  hoill 
Principallis,  Regentis,  and  Suppostis  that  ar  graduat,  or  at  the 
least  studyit  thair  tyme  in  Ethiques,  (Economiques,  and  Pol- 
litiques,  and  na  utlieris  youngare  ;  and  everie  natioun,  first 
protestand  in^  Goddis  presence  to  follow  the  sinceir  dite- 
ment  of  thair  consciences,  shall  nominat  ane  of  the  said  thre; 
and  he  that  lies  monyest  votis  shall  be  confermit  be  the  Superin^ 
tendent  and  Principall,  and  his  dewitie  with  ane  cxhortatioun 
proponed  unto  him  :  And  this  to  be  the  28  day  of  September ; 
and  thairefter  aithis  to  be  takin,2  hinc  inde,  off  his  just  and 
godlie  governement,  and  of  the  remanentis  lauchfull  submis- 
sioun  and  obedience.  He  shall  be  propyned^  to  the  Univer- 
sitie at  his  entre,  with  ane  new  garment,  bearing  Insignia 
Magistratus ;  and  be  halden  monethlie  to  visie  everie  Col- 
ledge,'^  and  with  his  presence  decore  and  examyn  the  lectionis 
and  exercitioun  thairof.  His  assessoris  shalbe  ane  laweir  and 
ane  theolog,  with  whois  ad^^se  he  shall  decide  all  questionis 
civill,  betwix  the  memberis  of  the  Universitie.  Yf  ony  with- 
out the  Universitie  persew  ane  member  thairof,  or  be  persewit 
be  ane  member  of  the  samin,  he  shall  assist  the  Provest  and 
Baillies  in  thei  casses,  or  uthir  judgeis  competent,  to  see  justice 
be  ministred.     In  likewise,  yf  ony  of  the  Universitie  be  crimi- 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "and  everie  one  having  <  The  Editor  in  1722,  says,   "Some 

first  protested."  copies  have  Ins'ujma  Magistratus  being 

*  In  edit.  1621,  "  tryall  to  be  t.iken."  born  before  liini,  he  shall  visite  every 

3  In  M8.  1566,  "  proposed."  Colledge  moncthly,"  &c. 


SUM  MA  OF 
BURSARIS 
IN  THE 
THRE  UNI- 
VERSITEIS. 


218  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

nallie  persevvit,  he  sliall  assist  tlie  Judgeis  comjDetent,  and  se 
that  justice  be  ministred. 

Item,  We  think  it  expedient,  that  in  everie  Colledge  in 
everieUniversitie,thair  he  twenty-four  hursaris,!  divided  equalie 
in  all  the  classes  and  seigeis,  as  is  above  exprimit :  that  is, 
in  Sanctandrois,  seventie-tua  bursaris ;  in  Glasgou,  fourtye-eyght 
bursaris ;  in  Abirdene,  fourty-eyght ;  to  be  sustened  onlie  in 
meit  upon  the  chargeis  of  the  Colledge  ;  and  be  admitted  at 
the  examinatioun  of  the  Ministerie  and  chaptour  of  Principallis 
in  the  Universitie,  alsweill  in  docilitie  of  the  personis  offerit, 
as  of  the  habillitie  of  thair  parentis  to  sustene  thame  thair 
selvis,  and  nocht  to  burding  the  Common-wealth  with  thame. 

V.  Off  Stipendis  and  Expensses  necessarie. 

Item,  "We  think  expedient,  that  the  Universiteis  be  doted 
with  temporall  landis,  with  rentis  and  revenewis  of  the 
Bischopriks  temporalitie,  and  of  the  Kirkis  CoUegiat,  sa  far  as 
thair  ordinarie  chargeis  shall  require ;  and  thairfore,  that  it 
wald  please  your  Honouris,  be  advise  of  your  Honouris  Coun- 
sall  and  voit  of  Parliament,  to  do  the  samin.  And  to  the 
effect  the  same  may  be  schortlie  expediat,  we  have  recollected 
the  soumes  we  think  necessarie  for  the  samin. 

Imprimis,  For  the  ordinarie  Stipend  of  the  Dialecticiane 
Reidar,  the  Mathematiciane,  Phisitiane,  and  Morall  Philo- 
sophic, we  think  sufficient  ane  hundrcth  pundis  for  everie  ane 
of  thame. 

Item,  For  the  Stipend  of  everie  Reader  in  Medicine  and 
Lawis,  ane  hundreth  threttie  thre  pundis,  vi  s.  viij  d. 

Item,  To  everie  Reidar  in  Hebrew,  Greik,  and  Divinitie,  twa 
hundreth  jmndis. 

Item,  To  everie  Principall  of  a  Colledge,  ij   lb. 

Item,  To  everie  Stewart,  sextene  pundis  of  fie. 

'  In  reckoning  the  number  of  Bursa-  three  Colleges  ;  and  Glasgow  and  Aber- 
vies,  it  was  proposed  that  the  Univer-  deen  of  two  each;  thus  making  72  for 
sity  of  St.  Andrews  should  consist  of      theformcr,  and  48  for  each  of  the  latter. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  219 

Item,  To  everie  Gardnar,  to  everie  Cuke,  and  Portar,  ilkane, 
ten  markis. 

Item,  To  tlie  Burde  of  everie  Bursar,  without  the  Classes  of 

Theologie  and  Medicine,^  .  .  .         twenty  pundis. 

Item,  [To  every  Bursar]  in  the  Classe  of  Theologie,  wliiche 

will  be  onlie  twelf  personis  in  Sanctandrois,     .  .      24  lib. 

Summa  of  yeirlie  and  ordinarie  expensses  in 

the  Universitie  of  Sanctandrois,  extendis  to     3796  lib. 
Summa   of  yearlie  and  ordinarie  expensis  of 

Grlasgow,2 2922  lib. 

Abirdene,  alsmekill,  .  .  .  .2922  lib. 


Summa  of  the  Ordinarie  Chargis  of  the  lioill,       9640  lib. 

Item,  the  Beddellis  Stipend  shalbe  of  everie  entrant  and 
suppost  of  the  Universitie,  ii.  schillingis ;  off  everie  ane  graduat 
in  Philosophie,  thre  schillingis ;  oif  everie  ane  graduat  in  Me- 
dicine or  Lawis,  4  schillingis  ;  in  Theologie,  5  schillingis  ;  all 
Bursis  being  exceptit. 

Item,  We  have  thocht  gude  for  building  and  uphald  of  the 
placis,  ane  general  collect  be  maid  ;  and  that  everie  Erlis  sone, 
at  his  entre  to  the  Universitie,  shall  gif  fourtye  schillingis,  and 
sicklike  at  everie  graduatioun,  40  schillingis.  Item,  Everie 
Lordis  sone  sicklike  at  ilk  tyme,  80  schillingis ;  ilk  fre  balding 
Baronis  sone,  twentye  schillingis :  everie  Fewar  and  substan- 
tious  Gentilmannis  sone,  ane  mark.  Item,  Everie  substantious 
Husband  and  Burges  sone,  at  ilk  tyme,  ten  schillingis  :  Item, 
Everie  ane  of  the  rest,  (excepting  3  the  Bursaris,)  5  schillingis 
at  ilk  tyme. 

And  that  this  be  gathered  in  ane  commoun  box,  put  in 
keiping  to  the  Principall  of  the  Theologeanes,  everie  Principall 

^  In  edit.  1621,  the  -words,  "  and  Me-  signed    that    these     two    Universities 

dicine"  are  omitted.  should  have  had  each  of  them  a  Pi-ofes- 

*  The  Editor  in  1722,  remarks,  "  The  sor  of  Greek,  whose  salary  was  to  have 

ordiuai-y  expenses  of  Glasgow  or  Aber-  been  200  Pounds." 

deen  extend  only  to  2722  Pounds  and  ^In  edit.  1621,  "  not  excepting."' 
one  Merk,  so  that  probably  it  was  de- 


220  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

liavand  ane  key  thairof,  to  be  coniptit  ilk  yeare  anis,  with 
the  relictis  of  the  Principallis  to  be  laved  into  the  samin,  about 
the  fivetene  dav  of  November,  in  presence  of  the  Superinten- 
dent, Rectour,  and  the  hoill  Principallis ;  and,  at  thair  hoill 
consent,  or  at  the  least  the  most  part  thairof,  reservit  and 
employit  onlie  upoun  the  building  and  uphalding  of  the  placis, 
and  repairing  of  the  same,  as  ever  necessitie  shall  require. 
And  thairfore,  the  Rectour  Avith  his  assistance  shall  be  haldin 
to  visite  the  placis  ilk  yeir  anis,  incontinent  efter  he  be  pro- 
moted, upoun  the  last  of  October,  or  thairby. 

VI.  Off  the  Privilege  of  the  Universitie. 

Seing  we  desire  that  Innocencie  shall  defend  us  rather  than 
Privelege,  we  think  that  ilk  persoun  of  the  Universitie  shuld 
answeir  before  the  Provest  and  Baillies  of  ilk  town  whaire  the 
Universities  ar,  of  all  crymes  whairof  thai  ar  accusit,  onlie 
that  the  Rectour  be  Assesour  to  thame  in  the  saidis  actionis. 
In  civill  materis  yf  the  questioun  be  betwix  memberis  of  the 
Universitie  on  ilk  side,  making  thair  residence  and  exercitioun 
thairin  for  the  tyme,  in  that  case  the  partie  callit  shall  not 
be  haldin  to  answer,  but  onlie  before  the  Rectour  and  his 
Assesouris  heirtofore  expremit.  In  all  uthir  casses  of  civill 
persute,  the  general!  reule  of  the  Law  to  be  observit.  Actor 
sequatur  forum,  rei,  d^c. 

Item,  That  the  Rectour  and  all  inferiour  memberis  of  the 
Universitie  be  exempted  frome  all  taxationis,  impostis,  chargeis 
of  weir,  or  ony  othir  charge  that  may  onerat  or  abstract  him 
or  thame  from  the  cair  of  thair  office ;  suche  as  Tutorie,  Cura- 
torie,  Deaconrie,  or  ony  siclike,  that  ar  establischeit,  or  heir- 
efter  shall  be  established  in  our  Common- wealth  ;  to  the  effect, 
that  but  trubill,  that  ane  may  wait  upoun  the  upbringing  of 
the  youth  in  learnyng,  that  othir  bestow  his  tyme  onlie  in  that 
most  necessarie  excrcitioune. 

All  othir  thingis  tuiching  the  bookes  to  be  red  in  ilk 
classo,  and  all  suclic  particular  effaires,  we  refer  to  the  dis- 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  221 

cretioun  of  the  Maisteris,  PrincipalHs,  and  Regentis,  with  thair 
Weill  advisit  Counsallis  ;  not  doubting  but  yf  God  sail  grant 
quietnes,  and  gif  your  Wisdomes  grace  to  set  fordward  letteris 
in  the  sort  prescribed,  ye  shall  leave  wisdome  and  learnyng  to 
your  posteritie,  ane  treasure  more  to  be  estemed  nor  ony 
earthlie  treasure  ye  ar  abill  to  provide  l  for  thanie  ;  whiche, 
without  wisdome,  ar  more  abill  to  be  thair  ruyne  and  con- 
fusioun,  than  help  or  con  fort.  And  as  this  is  most  treu,  so  we 
leave  it  with  the  rest  of  the  commoditcis  to  be  weyit  by  your 
Honouris  wisdome,  and  set  fordwart  by  your  authoritie  to  the 
most  heigh  advancement  of  this  Common-Avealth,  committed  to 
your  charge. 


The  Sext  Heid,  of  the  Rentis  and  Patrimony  of 

THE  KlRK.'^ 

These  twa  sortis  of  men,  that  is  to  say,  the  Ministers'^  and 
the  Pure,  togidder  with  the  Schollis,  when  ordour  sail  be  takin 
thairanent,  must  be  sustened  upoun  the  chargeis  of  the 
Churche :  And  thairfore  provisioun  must  be  maid,  how  and  of 
whome  suclie  soumes  must  be  lifted.  But  befoir  we  enter  in 
this  heid,  Ave  must  crave  of  your  Honouris,  in  the  name  of  the 
Eternall  God  and  of  his  Sone  Christ  Jesus,  that  ye  have 
respect  to  your  pure  brethren,  the  lauboraris  and  manuraris  of 
the  ground ;  who  by  these  creuell  beastis  the  Papistis  have 
bene  so  oppressit,*  that  thair  life  to  tliame  have  bene  dolorus 
and  bitter.  Yf  ye  will  have  God  author  and  approver  of  youre 
reformatioun,  ye  must  nott  follow  thair  futesteppis ;  but  ye 
must  have  compassioun  upoun  your  brethren,  appointing  thame 
to  pay  so  reasonabill  teyndis,  that  thei  may  feill^  sum  benefit 
of  Christ  Jesus,  now  precheit  unto  thame. 

With  the  greaf  of  our  hertis  we  heare,  that  sum  Gentilmen 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  amasse."  *  In  edit.   1621,   "  liavo  before  been 

-  In  edit.  1722,  Chap,  VIII.  opprest." 

*  In  edit.   1722,    "ministers  of  the  *  In  edit.  1621.  "  may  find." 

Word." 


222  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

are  now  als  creuell  over  tliair  tennentis  as  ever  war  tlie 
Papistis,  requiring  of  tliame  whatsoever  before  tliay  payit  to 
the  Churche  ;^  so  that  the  Papisticale  tirrannye  shall  onlie  be 
ehangeit  in  the  tirrannye  of  the  lord  or  of  the  laird.  We  dar 
not  flatter  your  Honouris,  neathir  yit  is  it  proffitabill  for  you 
that  so  we  do  :  if  you  permit  suche  creualtie^  to  be  used, 
neather  shall  ye,  who  by  your  authoritie  audit  to  ganestand 
suche  oppressioun,  neathir  thei  that  use  the  same,  escheip 
Goddis  lievy  and  feirfull  judgementis.  The  Gentilmen,  Baronis, 
Earlis,  Lordis,  and  utheris,  must  be  content  to  live  upon  thair 
just  rentis,  and  suffer  the  Churche  to  be  restorit  to  hir  libertie, 
that,  in  hir  restitutioun,  the  poore,  who  heirtofore  by  the 
creuall  Papistis  have  bene  spoilled  and  oppressit,  may  now 
resave  sum  confort  and  relaxatioun. 

*  CoNCLUDiT  BE  THE  LoRDis  :^  That  thir  teyndis  and  uthairis 
exactionis,  to  be  clene  discharged,  and  never  to  be  tackin  in 
tyme  cuming ;  as,  the  uppermost  Claith,  the  Corps-present, 
the  Clerk-maill,  the  Pasche  offeringis,  Teynd  Aill,  and  all 
handlingis  Upaland,  can  neathir  be  required  nor  resavit  of 
godlie  conscience. 

Neathir  do  we  judge  it  to  proceade  frome  justice,  that  one 
man  sail  possess  the  teyndis  of  ane  utlier ;  but  we  think  it 
ane  thing  most  reasonabill,  that  everie  man  have  the  use  of 
his  awin  teyndis,  provideit  that  he  ansueir  to  the  Deaconis 
and  Thesauraris  of  the  Churche,  off  that  whiche  justlie  sail  be 
appointit  unto  him.  We  require  Deaconis  and  Thesauraris 
rathir  to  resave  the  rentis,  nor  the  Ministeris  them  selvis  ;  be- 
caus  that  of  the  teyndis  must  not  onlie  the  Ministeris  be  sus- 
tened,  but  also  the  Poore  and  Schollis.  And  thairfore  we  think 
'  it  most  expedient  that  commoun  Thesauraris,  to  wit,  the  Dea- 
DEAC0NIS.4   conis,  be  appointed  frome  yeare  to  yeare,  to  resave  the  hoill 

>  In  edit.  1621,  "  whatsoever  they  ^  These  words,  "  Concludit  be  the 

afore  payed  to  the  Kii-k."  Lordis,"  are  omitted  in  the  later  copies. 

^  In   edit.    1621,    "  if   we    permit  *  This  addition  is  omitted  in  the  later 

cruelty."  copies. 


THE  LORDIS 
AGGREIS 
WITH  THIS 
HKID  OF  THI 
RESAVING 
OF  THE 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  223 

rentis  appertenyng  to  the  Cliurclie ;  and  that  commandiment 
be  given,  that  na  man  be  permitted  eather  to  resave,  eather 
yit  to  inti'omet  with,  any  thing  appertenjaig  to  the  siistenta- 
tioun  of  the  personis  foresaidis,  but  suche  as  by  commoun 
consent  of  the  Churche  ar  thairto  appointed. 

Yf  any  thinkis  this  prejudicial!  to  the  tackis  and  asseda- 
tionis  of  those  that  now  possessis  the  teyndis,  let  them  under- 
stand that  ane  injust  possessioun  is  no  possessioun  before  God  ; 
for  those  of  whome  thei  receaved  thair  titill  and  presupposed 
richt,  war  and  ar  thevisl  and  murtheraris,  and  had  no  power 
so  to  alienat  the  patrimonye  and  commoun-gude  of  the 
Churche.  And  yit  we  ar  not  so  extreme,  but  that  we  wische 
just  recompence  to  be  maid  to  suche  as  have  debursed  soumes 
of  money  to  those  injust  possessouris  (so  that  it  hes  not  bene 
of  lait  dayis  in  prejudice  of  the  Churche :)  but  suche  as  ar 
fund  and  knawin  to  be  done  of  plane  collusioun  in  no  wise 
aucht  to  be  mantened  of  you.  And  for  that  purpose,  we 
think  it  most  expedient  that  whosoever  have  assedatioun  of 
teyndis  or  churches  be  openlie  warnit  to  produce  thair  asse- 
datioun and  assurance,  that  cognitioun  being  tackin,  the  just 
tackisman  may  have  ane  just  and  reasonable  recompence  for 
the  yearis  that  ar  to  ryn,  the  proffit  of  the  yearis  passed  being 
considderit  and  deducted ;  and  the  injust  and  surmised  may 
be  servit  accordinglie :  So  that  the  Churche,  in  the  end,  may 
recover  hir  libertie  and  fredome,  and  that  onlie  for  releaf  of 
the  Poore. 

Your  Honouris  may  easilie  understand,  that  we  speake  not 
now  for  our  selvis,  but  in  favouris  of  the  Poore  and  2  the  law- 
boraris  defraudit  and  oppressed  by  the  Preastis,  and  by  thair 
confederat  pensionaris.  For  quhill  that  the  Preistis  Pension- 
are  his  idill  bellye  is  delicatlie  fed,  the  Poore,  to  whome  a 
portioun  of  that   appertenis,  was  pyned   with  hunger ;    and 

1  lu  edit.  1621,   "  presupposed  riglit  -  In  the  edit.   1621,  the  words  "  the 

or  warrant,  were  thevis."  poore  and,"  are  omitted. 


224  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

moirover  the  trew  laboraris  was  compelled  to  pay  that  whiche 
[he]  aught  not :  for  the  lauborar  is  nouthir  dettar  to  the  dum 
dog  called  the  Bischop,  neathir  yit  unto  his  hyred  pensionare  ; 
but  is  debtour  onlie  unto  the  Churche :  And  the  Churche  is 
onlie  bund  to  sustene  and  nourische  off  her  chargeis,  the  per- 
sonis  before  mentionat,  to  Avit,  the  Ministeris  of  the  word,  the 
Poore,  and  the  Teacharis  of  the  youth. 

But  now  to  returne  to  the  formare  Heade.  The  soumes 
abill  to  susteane  thir  forenamit  j)ersonis,  and  to  furnische  all 
thingis  appertenyng  to  the  preservatioun  of  gude  ordour  and 
polecie  within  the  Churche,  must  be  lifted  of  the  teyndis,!  to 
wit,  the  teynd  cheaf,  teynd  hay,  teynd  hempt,  teynd  lint,  teynd 
fischeis,  teynd  calf,  teynd  fole,  tejnd  lambe,  teynd  woll,  teynd 
cheise,  &c.  And  becaus  that  we  knaw  that  the  tythes  reason - 
abillie  tackin,  as  is  before  expressed,  will  not  suffice  to  dis- 
charge the  formar  necessitie ;  we  think  that  all  thingis  doted 
to  Hospitalitie,  all  annualrentis,  both  in  burgh  and  land,  per- 
teanyng  to  Preastis,  Chanterie,  Colledgcis,  Chaplaniyis,  and 
to  Freiris  of  all  Ordouris,  to  the  Sisteris  of  the  Seanis,2  and  to 
all  utheris  of  that  Ordour,  and  suche  utheris  within  this 
Realme,  be  receaved  still  to  the  use  of  the  Churche  or 
Churches  within  the  tounis  or  parrischeis  whaire  thai  war 
doted.  Furthermore  to  the  uphald[ing]  of  the  Universiteis, 
and  sustentatioun  of  the  Superintendentis,  the  hoill  revenew 

^  In  the  edit.  1621,  "  oif  the  tenth.s  :  .soon  after  his  assuming  the  government, 

to  wit,  the  tenth  sheafe,  hay,  hemp,  lint,  granted  to  the  "  Sisters  of  the  Senys," 

fi.shes,    tenth   calfe,   tenth  lamb,  tentli  an  annual  pension  of  £24  ;  and  fi-om  the 

wooll,  tenth  folle,  tenth  cheese."  Treasurer'.s  Accounts,  it  appears  that 

*  The  Sisters  of  the  Sheens,  Senys,  this  sum  was  continued  until  1558,  to  be 

or  Sciennes,  were  Nuns  of  the  Predi-  paid  bytheQueenRegent,Mary  of  Guise, 

cant  Order  of  St.  Dominick.     Their  Con-  A  volume  printed  for  the  Abbotsford 

vent,  consecrated  to  St.  Katherine  of  Club,  in  1841,  entitled  "  Liber  Conven- 

Sienna,    an  erection  of  so  late  a  date  tus  S.  Katherine  Senensis  prope  Edin- 

as    1517,    was    situated    a   short   di.s-  burgiim,"  includes  the  "  Constitutiones 

tance  to  the  south  of  Edinburgh.     Tlie  Sororum,"  &c.,  along  with  the  several 

name  of  the  Scienne.s,  still  designates  Charters  that  could  be  recovered  relat- 

the  locality.      King  James   the   Fifth.  ing  to  this  Convent. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  225 

of  the  temporalitie  of  the  Bischopis,  Deancs,  and  Archdeanes 
landis,  and  all  rcntis  of  landis  pcrtenyng  to  the  Cathedrall 
Clmrcheis  whatsoever.  And  farther,  merchandis  and  riche 
craftismen  in  fre  Burghis,  who  have  no  thing  to  do  with  the 
manuring  of  the  ground,  must  mak  sum  provisioun  in  thair 
citeis,  tounis,  or  dwelling  placis,  for  to  support  the  neid  of  the  ^y^^^^g^'jg 
Churche. 

To  the  Ministeris,  and  failzeing  thairof  the  Reideris,  must 
be  restorit  thair  manses  and  thair  gleibis ;  for  ellis  tliei  can 
not  serve  thair  flock  at  all  tymes  as  thair  dewtie  is.  Yf  any 
gleibe  exceid  sex  aikeris  of  land,  the  rest  to  remane  in  the 
possessouris  handis,  quhill  ordour  be  tackin  thairin. 

The  Lordis  condiscendis  that  the  Manse  and  Yairdis  be  iaddiiioj 
restorit  to  the  ministeris :  and  all  the  lordis  consentis 
that   the   ministeris  have   sex   aikeris  of  landis,  except 
Merscheall,    Mortoun,  Glencarne,    AND   Cassillis,    QUHAIR 

MaNSSES  AR  of  GRET  QUANTITIE.l 

The  receaveris  and  collectouris  of  these  rentis  and  dewiteis 
must  be  the  Deaconis  or  Thesauraris  appointit  from  yeare  to 
yeare  in  everie  churche,  and  that  by  common  consent  and  fre 
electioun  of  the  churche.  The  Deaconis  may  distribute  no 
part  of  that  whiche  is  collected,  but  by  commandiment  of  the 
Ministeris  and  Elderis ;  and  thei  may  command  no  thing  to 
be  deliverit,  but  as  the  Churche  before  hath  determined :  to 
wit,  the  Deaconis  shall  of  the  first  pay  the  soumes,  either  quar- 
terlie,  or  frome  half  yearo  to  half  yeare,  to  the  Ministeris 
whiche  the  Kirk  hath  appointed.  The  same  thei  shall  do  to 
the  Schoolmaisteris,  Readeris,  and  Hospitalis,  (gif  any  be,)  al- 
wayis  receaving  acquettances  for  thair  discharge. 

Yfany  extraordinar  soumes  lie  to  be  delivered,  then  must 
the  Ministeris,  Elderis,  and  Deaconis  consult  whethir  the  deli- 

1  Tliis  paragraph   is   added   on  the  of  the   discussion   that  took  place  on 

margin  of  the  MS.  1566,  and  is  omitted  some  of  the  Heads  in  the  Book  of  Dis- 

in  all  the  editions.    It  affords  a  proof  cipline. 

VOL.  II.  P 


226  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

verance  of  tliei  sonnies  doetli  stand  Avitli  tlie  common  utilitie  of 
the  Clmrclie  or  not ;  and  yf  tlici  do  nniversalie  aggree  and  con- 
descend eatliir  npoun  the  affirmative  or  the  negative,  then  he- 
cans  thei  ar  in  credit  and  office  for  the  yeare,  thei  may  do 
as  best  seameth  unto  thame :  But  yf  thair  be  contraversie 
amangis  thame  selfis,  the  whole  Churche  must  be  made  privie  ; 
and  efter  that  the  mater  be  exponed,  and  the  reasonis  hearde ; 
the  judgement  of  the  Churclie  with  the  Ministeris  consent 
shall  prevaill. 

The  Deaconis  shall  be  bund  and  compelled  to  mak  ac- 
comj^tis  to  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis  of  that  Avhich  thei  have 
receaved,  als  oft  as  the  Polecie  shall  appoint ;  and  the  Elderis 
whan  thei  ar  changeit,  (which  must  be  everie  yeare,)  must 
clear  thair  comptis  before  suche  auditouris  as  the  Churche 
shall  appoint :  And  both  the  Deaconis  and  Elderis  being 
changeit,  shall  deliver  to  thame  that  shalbe  now  elected,  all 
soumes  of  money,  cornis,  and  other  profits  resting  in  thair 
handis  ;  the  tickettis  whairof  must  be  delivered  to  the  Superin- 
tendentis  in  thair  visitatioun,  and  by  thame  to  the  gret  Coun- 
sall  of  the  Churche,  that  alsweill  the  aboundance  as  the  in- 
digence of  everie  churche  may  be  evidentlie  knawin,  that  a 
reasonable  equalitie  may  be  had  throuchout  the  hoill  Realme. 
Yf  this  ordour  be  preciselie  keipit,^  corruptioun  can  not 
suddanlie  enter.  For  the  frie  and  yearlie  electioun  of  Dea- 
conis and  Elderis  shall  suffer  none  to  usurpe  a  perpetuall  do- 
minioun^  over  the  Churche  ;  the  knawledge  of  the  rentall 
shall  suffice^  thame  to  receave  no  more  then  whairof  thei 
.shall  be  bund  to  mak  accomptis  ;  the  deliverance  of  the  money 
to  the  new  ofHciaris  shall  not  suffer  privat  men  [to]  use  in 
thair  private  besynes,  that  whiche  aj^perteyneth  to  the  publict 
effaires  of  the  Churche. 

1  In  edit.  1021,  "  be  perfectly  kept."  •''  In  edit.  1G21,  "  shall  suffer." 

2  In  edit.  1021,  "  domination." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  227 

The  Sevint  Heid,  of  Ecclesiasticall  Discipline.^ 
As  that  no  Commoiin-wealtli  can  flnrische  or  long-  indure 
without  gucle  hiwis,  and  scharp  exccutioun  of  the  same ;  so 
neathir  can  the  Churche  of  God  be  Lrocht  to  puritie,  neathir 
yit  be  retained  in  the  same,  without  the  ordour  of  Ecclesiasti- 
call Discipline,  wliiche  standis  in  reproving  and  correcting  off 
these  faltis,  which  the  civill  sweard  doeth  eather  neglect,  eather 
may  not  punische :  Blasphemye,  adulterie,  murthour,  perjurie, 
and  uthir  crymes  capitall,  worthie  of  death,  audit  not  proper- 
lie  to  fall  under  censure  of  the  Churche ;  bccaus  all  suche 
oppin  transgressouris  of  Goddis  lawis  audit  to  be  tackin  away 
be  the  civill  swearde.  But  drunkynnes,  excesse,  (be  it  in  ap- 
parell,  or  be  it  in  eating  and  drinking,)  fornicatioun,  oppres- 
sioun  of  the  poore  by  exactionis,  deceaving  of  tliame  in  buying 
or  selling  be  wrang  met  or  measure,  wantoun  wordis  and 
licentious  leving  tending  to  sklander,  do  propirlie  appertene 
to  the  Churche  of  God,  to  punische  the  same  as  Goddis  word 
commandeth. 

But  becaus  this  accursit  Papistrie  hath  broclit  in  suche 
confusioun  in  the  warld,  that  neather  was  virtu  richtlie  pray- 
sit,  neathir  vice  seveirlie  punisched ;  the  Churche  of  God 
is  compelled  to  draw  the  swearde  whiche  of  God  scho  have 
receaved,  agcxnis  suche  oppin  and  manifest  otfendaris,^  cursing  consentkd 

'        O  11  '  to   ON  BK  THE 

and  excommunicating  all  suche,  alsweall  those  whome  the  ^ounsall. 
civill  swearde  aucht  to  punische  as  the  uthiris,  frome  all  par- 
ticipatioun  with  hir  in  prayeris  and  sacramentis,  till  oppin 
repentence  manifestlie  appeare  in  tliame.  As  the  ordour  of 
Excommunicatioun  and  proceiding  to  the  same  audit  to  be 
grave  and  slow,  so  being  onis  pronunced  aganist  any  persoun, 
off  what  estait  and  conditioun  that  ever  thay  be,  it  must  be 
keipit  with  all  severitie.  For  lawis  maid  and  nocht  keipit 
engenderetli  contempt  of  virtu,  and  bringis  in  confusioun  and 

1  In  edit.  1722,  Cliap.  IX.  ^  x,^  edit.  1621,  "  contemners." 


228  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

libertic  to  syn  :  And  tliairforo  this  ordour  we  think  expedient 
to  be  observit  before  and  efter  excommunicatioun. 

First,  yf  the  offence  be  secreit  and  knawin  to  few,i  and 
rathir  standis  in  suspitioun  than  in  manifest  probatioun,  the 
offender  aucht  to  be  privatlie  admoniseheit  to  abstene  fromo 
all  appearance  of  evill  ;  whiche  yf  he  proraissis  to  do,  and  to 
declair  him  self  sober,  honest,  and  one  that  feareth  God,  and 
feareth  to  offend  his  brethren,  than  may  the  secreit  admoni- 
tioun  suffice  for  his  correctioun.  But  gif  he  athir  contempn 
the  admonitioun,  or  efter  promis  maid,  do  schaw  him  self  no 
more  circumspect  than  he  was  before,  than  must  the  Minister 
admonische  him  ;  to  whome  yf  he  be  fund  inobedient,  tliei 
must  proceid  according  to  the  reule  of  Christ,  as  efter  sail  be 
declairit. 

Gif  the  cryme  be  publict,  and  suche  as  is  haynouse,  as  for- 
nicatioun,  drunkynnes,  fechting,  commoun  sweiring,  or  execra- 
tioun,  than  aucht  the  offendar  to  be  callit  in  the  presence  of 
the  Minister,  Elderis,  and  Deaconis,  whair  his  syn  and  offence  2 
aucht  to  be  declared  and  aggredgeit,  so  that  his  conscience 
may  feale  how  far  he  hath  offended  God,  and  what  sklander 
he  hath  rasit  in  the  Churche.^  Yf  signis  of  unfeinyeit  repen- 
tence  appeare  into  him,  and  gif  he  require  to  be  admitted  to 
publict  repentence,  the  Ministerie  may  appoint  unto  him  a  day 
whan  the  hoill  Churche  convenith  togidder,  that  in  presence 
of  all  he  may  testifie  the  repentence  whiche  before  thame  he 
professed  :  Whiche  yf  he  accept,  and  with  reverence  do,  con- 
fessing his  syn,  and  dampnyng  the  same,^  and  earnestlie  de- 
siring the  Congregatioun  to  pray  to  God  with  him  for  mercy, 
and  to  accept  him  in  thair  societie,  nochtwithstanding  his 
formar  offence :  than  the  Churche  may,  and  aught  resave 
him  as  a  penitent  ;  for  the  Churche  aught  to  be  no  more 
seveir  than  God  declarith  him  self  to  be,  who  witncssith,  that 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  or  known  to  few  •'  In  edit.  1621,  "  Kirk." 

men."  ''  In  edit.  1621,  "  and  with  reverence 

'■^  In  edit.  1G21,  "  and  trespass."  confesse  his  sinne,  doing  the  same." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  229 

"  In  wliatsoever  hour  anc  synner  unfeynedlie  repentcth,  and 
turnis  from  liis  wickit  way,  that  he  will  nocht  remember 
ane  of  his  iniquitcis."  And  thairfore  the  Churche  aught  de- 
ligentlie  to  advert  that  it  excommunicat  not  those  whom  God 
absolvith. 

Yf  the  ofFendar  callit  before  the  Ministerie  be  fund  stubume, 
hard-hertit,  or  one  in  whome  no  signe  of  repentence  appeareth, 
than  must  he  be  demissed  with  ane  exhortatioun  to  considder 
the  dangerus  estait  in  whiche  ho  standis  ;  assuring  him,  yf  thei 
find  into  him  no  uthir  tokin  of  amendment  of  lyfe,  that  tliai 
will  be  compelled  to  seake  a  farther  rcmedie.  Yf  he  within 
ane  certane  space  schaw  his  repentence  to  the  Ministrie,  thei 
must  present  him  to  the  Churche  as  before  is  said. 

But  gif  he  continew  in  his  impenitence,  than  must  the  Churche 
be  admonisched^  that  suclie  crymcs  are  committed  amangis 
thame,  whiche  by  the  Ministerie  hath  bene  reprehend  it,  and 
the  personis  provocked  to  repent  ;  whairof  becaus  no  signis 
appeareth  unto  thame,  thei  could  not  but  signifie  unto  the 
Churche  the  crymcs,  but  not  the  persoun,  requiring  thame 
carnistlie  to  call  to  God  to  move  and  tuiche  the  heartis  of  the 
otfenderis,  so  that  suddanlie  and  earnistlie  thei  may  repent. 

Yf  the  persoun  maligne,  than  the  nixt  day  of  publict  assem- 
blie ;  the  cryme  and  the  persoun  must  be  both  notifyed  unto 
the  Churche,  and  thair  judgement  must  be  requirit,  yf  that 
suche  crymes  aught  to  be  suffered  unpunischeit  amangis 
thame :  Requeast  also  wald  be  maid  to  the  most  discreit  and 
to  the  nearest  freindis  of  the  offendare  to  travell  with  him  to 
bring  him  to  knawledge  of  himself,  and  of  his  dangerus 
estait,  with  ane  commandiment  gevin  to  all  man  to  call  to 
God  for  the  conversioun  of  the  impenitent.  Yf  ane  solempned 
and  ane  speciall  prayer  war  maid  and  drawin  for  that  purpose, 
the  thing  shuld  be  the  more  gravelie  done.^ 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  K  he  continue  not  -  This  was  afterwards  done,  in  the 

in  his  repentance,  then  must  the  Kirk  Order  of  Excommunication  and  of 
be  advertised."  Public  Repentance. 


230  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

The  thrid  Sunday,  the  Minister  aught  to  require  yf  the  un- 
penitent have  declared  ony  signis  of  repentence  to  ony  of  the 
Ministerie;  and  yf  he  hath,  then  may  the  Minister  appoint 
him  to  be  examinated  be  the  hoill  Ministerie  ;  eathir  then  in- 
stantlie,  or  at  ane  utlier  day  affixed  to  the  consistorie :  and  yf 
repentence  appeare,  alsweill  of  the  ciyme,  as  of  his  long  con- 
tempt, then  may  he  be  presented  to  the  Churche,  and  mak  his 
confessioun,  and  to  be  accepted  as  before  is  said.  But  yf  no 
man  signifie  his  repentence,  then  aught  he  to  be  excommuni- 
cat ;  and  by  the  mouth  of  the  Minister,  consent  of  the  Minis- 
terie, and  commandiment  of  the  Churche,  must  sick  a  con- 
tempnar  be  pronunced  excommunicat  from  God,  and  from  the 
societie  of  his  Churche. 

After  whiclie  sentence  may  no  persoun,  (his  wife  and  fami- 
lie  onlie  excepted,)  have  ony  kynde  of  conversatioun  with  him, 
be  it  in  eiting  and  drinking,  buying  or  selling,  yea,  in  saluting 
or  talking  with  him  ;  except  that  it  be  at  the  commandiment 
or  licence  of  the  Ministerie  for  his  conversioun ;  that  he  by 
suche  meanis  confoundit,  seing  him  self  abhorrit  of  the  faytli- 
fuU  and  godlie,  may  have  occasioun  to  repent  and  be  so  savit. 
The  sentence  of  liis  Excommunicatioun  must  be  ^^ublischeit 
universalie  throwhout  the  Realme,  least  that  any  man  sould 
pretend  ignorance. 

His  children  begottin  or  borne  efter  that  sentence  and  be- 
fore his  repentence,  may  noclit  be  admitted  to  baptisme,  till 
eathir  thei  be  of  aige  to  require  the  samin,  or  ell  is  that  the 
Moder,  or  sura  of  his  especiall  freinds,  members  of  the 
Churche,  offer  and  present  the  child,  abhorring  and  danip- 
nyng  the  iniquitie  and  obstinat  contempt  of  the  impenitent. 
Yf  ony  think  it  seveir,"^  that  the  child  suld  be  punischeit  for 
the  iniquitie  of  the  Fader;  let  thame  understand  that  the  sacra- 
mentis  appertene  onlie  to  the  faithfull  and  to  thair  seade : 
But  suche  as  stuburnlie  contempt  all  godlie  admonitioun,  and 

'  In  eclit.  1G21,  "  If  anv  inai)  i^hol!M  think  it  severe." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  231 

obstinatlie  remane  in  tliair  iniquitie,  can  nocht  be  accomijtcd 
amangist  the  faitlifull. 

11.  The  Ordoure  for  Publict  Offendaris. 

We  have  spokin  no  thing  of  those  that  commit  horrible 
crymis,  as  murtheraris,  man-slayaris,  and  adulteraris  ;  for  suclie 
(as  we  have  said)  the  Civill  swearde  o,ug]it  to  punische  to 
death :  But  in  case  thei  be  permitted  to  leve,  than  must 
the  Churche,  as  before  is  said,  dravsr  the  swearde  wliiche  of 
God  scho  hath  receaved,  hakling  thame  as  accursed  evin  in 
thair  [very]  fact.  The  oifendar  being  first  called,  and  ordour 
of  the  Churche  used  aganis  him,  in  the  same  maner  as  the 
personis  that  for  obstinat  impenitence  ar  publictlie  excommu- 
nicat :  So  that  the  obstinat  impenitent  efter  the  sentence  of 
excommunicatioun,  and  the  murtherar  or  adulterar  stand  in 
one  case  as  concernying  the  judgement  of  [the  Churche]  ;  tliat 
is,  neathir  of  both  may  be  receaved  in  the  fellowschip  of  the 
Churche  to  pi'ayeris  or  sacramentis,  (but  to  heiring  of  the 
word  thei  may,)  till  first  thei  offer  thame  selfis  to  the  Minis- 
terie,  humblic  requiring  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis  to  pray  to 
God  for  thame  ;  and  alsua  to  be  intercessouris  to  the  Churche, 
that  thei  may  be  admitted  to  publict  repentence,  and  so  to  coxskntm 
the  fruitioun  of  the  benefitis  of  Christ  Jesus,  distributed  to  lokdis. 
the  memberis  of  his  body. 

Yf  this  requeist  be  huniilie  maid,  then  may  not  the  Minis- 
teris refuise  to  signifie  the  same  unto  the  Churche,  the  nixt 
day  of  publict  preaching,^  the  Minister  geving  exhortatioun  to 
the  Churche  to  pray  to  God  to  performe  the  work  whiche  he 
appearit  to  have  begun,  wirking  in  the  heart  of  the  offendare 
unfeyned  repentence  of  his  grevous  cryme,  and  the  sence^  and 
fealing  of  his  gretit  mercy,  by  the  operatioun  of  his  Holie 
Spirit.  Thairefter  ane  day  audit  publictlie  to  be  assignit 
unto  him  to  gif  oppin  confessioun  of  his  offence  and  contemi^t, 

1  hi  MS.  l.jij'i,  ••  publict  praying."         -  in  edit.  1621,  •■  cryuio  ami  offciiue." 


232  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

and  sa  to  mak  ane  publict  satisfactioun  to  the  Cliurche  of  God. 
Whiche  day  the  offenderis  must  appeare  in  presence  of  the 
hoill  Churche,  and  with  his  awin  mouthe  dampne  his  awin 
impietie,  publictlie  confessing  the  same  ;  desiring  God  of  his 
grace  and  merc}^,  and  his  congregatioun,  that  it  will  please 
thame  to  accept  him  in  thair  societie,  as  before  is  said.  The 
Minister  must  examinat  him  diligentlie  Avhethir  he  find  a 
haitrent  and  displesour  of  his  syn,  alsweill  of  his  crjme  as 
of  his  contempt  -A  Avhiche  yf  he  confesse,  he  must  travell  with 
him,  to  se  what  hope  he  hath  of  Goddis  mercy. 

And  gif  he  find  him  reasonahillie  instructed  in  the  knaw- 
ledge  of  Christ  Jesus,  in  the  virtu  of  his  death ;  than  may  the 
Minister  confort  him  by  Goddis  infallibill  premisses,  and  de- 
mand of  the  Churche  yf  thei  be  content  to  resave  tliat  creature 
of  God,  whome  Satlian  before  have  drawin  in  his  nettis,  in 
the  societie  of  thair  body,  seing  that  he  declairis  him  self 
penitent.  Wliiche  yf  the  Churche  grant,  as  thai  may  not 
justlie  deny  the  same,  than  aught  the  Minister  in  publict 
prayer  to  commend  him  to  God,  confesse  the  syn  of  that  ofFen- 
dar,  and  of  the  whole 2  Churche,  desiring  mercy  and  grace  for 
Christ  Jesus  saik.  Wliiche  prayer  being  endit,  the  Minister 
aught  to  exhort  the  Churche  to  resave  that  penitent  brothir 
in  tliair  favouris,  as  thay  require  God  to  resave  thame  selfis, 
whan  thay  have  offendit ;  and  in  signe  of  thair  consent,  the 
Elderis  and  cheaf  men  of  the  Churche  sail  tak  the  penitent 
by  the  hand,  and  one  or  two  in  name  of  the  whole  shall  kiss 
and  imbrace  him  with  all  reverence  and  gravitie,  as  a  member 
of  Christ  Jesus. 

Whiche  being  done,  the  Minister  sliall  exhort  the  recon- 
cilled^  to  tak  diligent  heid  in  tymes  cuming,  that  Sathan 
trap  him  nocht  in  suche  crymes,  admonissing  him  that  he  will 
nocht  cease  to  tempt  and  trye  [by]  all  meanis  possibill  to 

1  In  edit.  1621,  the  words  "  cryme,"  -  In  edit.  1621,  "before  the  whole." 

and  '•  c^mtenipt,"  aro  transposed.  ''  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  received." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  233 

bring  him  fromc  that  obedience  whiche  he  hath  gevin  to  God, 
and  to  the  ordinance  of  his  Sone  Christ  Jesus.  The  exhorta- 
tioun  being  ended,  the  Minister  aught  to  gif  publict  thankis 
luito  God  for  the  conversioun  of  that  thair  brotliir,  and  for 
the  benifittis  quliilk  Ave  resave  by  Jesus  Christ,  praying  for 
the  increase  and  continewance  of  the  same. 

Yf  the  penitent,  efter  that  he  have  offered  him  self  to  the 
Ministerie,  or  to  the  Churche,  be  fund  ignorant  in  the  princi- 
pal! pointis  of  oure  religioun,  and  cheaflie  in  the  article  of 
Justiticatioun,  and  of  the  office  of  Christ  Jesus,  than  audit  he 
to  be  exactlie  instructed  before  he  be  receaved :  For  ane 
mocking  of  God  it  is  to  receave  thame  in  repentence,  who 
knoweth  not  whairin  standis  thair  remeid,  whan  thai  repent 
thair  syn. 

III.  Personis  subject  to  Discipline. 
To  Discipline  must  all  Estaitis  within  this  Realme  be  subject,  ^rL™'' 
yf  thay  oifend,!  alsweil  the  Reullaris  as  thay  that  are  reulit ;  ^^^^" 
yea  and  the  Preachearis  thame  selfis,  alsweill  as  the  poorest 
within  the  Churche.     And  becaus  the  eye  and  mouth  of  the 
Churche  aught  to  be  most  single  and  irreprehensibill,  the  life 
and  conversatioun  of  the  Ministers  aucht  most  diligentlie  to 
be  tryed.     Whairof  we  shall  speake,  efter  that  we  have  spokin 
of  the  electioun  of  Elderis  and  Deaconis,  who  must  assist  the 
Ministeris  in  all  public  eifaires  of  the  Churche,  &c.2 


The  Eyght  Heid,  tuiching  the  Electioun  off  Elderis 
AND  Deaconis,  kc.^ 

Men  of  best  knawledge  in  Goddis  word,  of  cleanest  life,  men 
faithfull,  and  of  most  honest  conversatioun  that  can  be  fund 
in  the  Churche,  must  be  nominated  to  be  in  electioun ;  and 

1  The  words,  "  yf  they  offend,"  are  =  In  edit.  1621,  «  of  the  Kirk." 

omitted  in  edit.  1621.  ^  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  X. 


JUDGE. 


234  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

the  names  of  the  same  musti  be  publictlie  red  to  the  whole 

Kirk  by  the  Minister,  geving  thame  advertisement,  that  frome 

amongest  these  must  be  chosin  Elderis  and  Deaconis.    Yf  anye 

of  the  nominated  be  noted  with  publict  infamye,  he  aught  to 

be  repelled  ;  for  it  is  not  seamlie  that  the  servand  of  corrup- 

tioun  shall  have  authoritie  to  judge  in  the  Churche  of  God. 

Yf  anye  man  knowis  utheris  of  better  qualiteis  within  the 

Churche  then  these  that  beis  nominated,  lat  thame  be  put  in 

electioun,  that  the  Church  may  have  the  choise. 

tTi*cRCHE3         ^f  church eis^  be  of  smaller  nomber  than  that  Seniouris  and 

jo\-^-ED       Deaconis  can  be  chosin  frome  amangis  thame,  then  may  thay 

poLEul      Weill  be  joyned  to  the  nixt  adjacent  Churche :    For  the  j^lura- 

litie  of  cliurcheis,  without  ministeris  and  ordour,  shall  rathir 

hurt  than  edifie. 

The  electioun  of  Elderis  and  Deaconis  aught  to  be  used 
everie  yeare  once,  (whiche  we  judge  to  be  most  convenient  the 
first  day  of  August ;)  least  that  by  long  continuance  of  suche 
officiaris,  men  presume  upoun  the  libertie  of  the  Churche.  It 
hurtis  not  that  one  man  be  reteaned  in  office  mo  yearis  than 
one,  so  that  he  be  appointed  yearlie,  by  common  and  fre 
electioun ;  provideit  alwayes,  that  the  Deaconis,  thesauraris, 
be  not  compelled  to  receave  the  office  againe  for  the  space  of 
three  yearis. 

How  the  voitis  and  sutfreigeis  may  be  best  receaved,  so  that 
everie  man  may  gyf  his  vote  frelic,  everie  sevcrall  Churche 
may  tack  such  ordour  as  best  seameth  to  thame. 

The  Elderis  being  elected,  must  be  admouischeit  of  thair 
office,  which  is  to  assist  the  Minister  in  all  publict  effarcs  of 
the  Churche;  to  wit,  in  judgeing  and  decernyng^  causses ;  in 
geving  of  admonitioun  to  the  licentious  lever  ;  in  having  of 
respect  to  the  manneris  and  conversatioun  of  all  men  within 
thair  charge;  for  by  the  gravitie  of  the  Seniouris  aught  the 

^  111  edit.  IGlil,  "and  their  names."  ^  In  edit.  1G21,  "to  wit,  in  deteniiiii- 

^  In  edit.  lUliL  "  If  the  kirk."  ing  :uid  judging." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  235 

lielit  and  unbridillit  life  of  the  licentious  be  corrected  and 
bridillit. 

Yea,  the  Seniouris  aught  to  tah  hcyde  to  the  life,  manneris, 
deligence,  and  studye  of  thair  Ministeris.  Yf  lie  be  Avorthie  of 
admonitioun,  tliei  must  admonische  him  ;  of  correctioun,  thei 
must  correct  him  :  And  yf  he  be  worthy  of  depositioun,  tliay 
with  consent  of  tlie  Churchc  and  Superintendent  may  depose 
him,  so  that  his  cryme  so  deserve.  Yf  a  Minister  be  licht  in 
conversatioun,  by  his  Elderis  and  Seniouris,  he  auglit  to  be 
adraonisched.  Yf  he  be  negligent  in  studie,  or  one  that  vaketh 
not  upoun  his  charge  and  flocke,  or  one  that  proponeth  not 
frutefull  doctrine,  he  deservith  scharpear  admonitioun  and  cor- 
rectioun. To  i\\Q  whiche  yf  he  be  fund  stubburne  and  inobe- 
dient,  tlian  may  the  Seniouris  of  one  Churche  complaine  to  the 
Ministerie  of  the  two  nixt  adjacent  churcheis,  whaire  men 
of  greater  gravitie  are ;  to  whois  admonitioun  yf  he  be  fund 
inobedient,  he  auglit  to  be  discharged  frome  his  ministerie  till 
his  repentence  appeare,  and  a  place  be  vaking  for  him. 

Yf  any  Minister  be  deprehendit  in  any  notable  cryme,  as 
huredome,  adulterie,  murther,  man-slauchter,  peijurie,  teach- 
ing of  heresie,  or  ony  such  as  deserve  death,  oi*  [that]  may  be 
ane  note  of  perpetuall  infaniye,  he  aught  to  be  deposed  for  ever. 
By  Heresie,  Ave  meane  pernitius  doctrine  planelie  taught,  and 
obstinatlie  defended,  aganis  the  foundatioun  and  principallis  of 
our  faith :  and  such  a  cryme  Ave  juge  to  deserve  peipetuall  de- 
positioun frome  the  ministrie ;  for  most  dangerus  Ave  knoAv  it 
to  be,  to  commit  the  flock  to  ane  man  infected  with  the  pesti- 
lence of  heresye. 

Some  crymes  deserve  depositioun  for  ane  tyme,  and  Avhill 
the  persoun  gyf  declaratioun  of  gretar  gravitie  and  honnestie : 
as  yf  a  minister  be  deprehendit  dronk,  in  braAvling  or  fcchting, 
ane  oppiii  sklanderar,  ane  infamer  of  his  nychtbour,  factious 
and  sawar  of  discord,  lie  may  be  commandit  to  cease  from  his 
ministrie,  till  he  declair  the  signis  of  repentence  ;  upoun  the 


236  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

whiclie,  the  Churche  sail  abide  liim  the  space  of  twentye  dayis 
or  farther,  as  the  Churche  shall  think  expedient,  before  that 
thay  proceed  to  ane  new  electioun. 

Everic  inferiour  Churche  shall  by  one  of  thair  Seniouris  and 
one  of  thair  Deaconis,  onis  in  the  year,  notifie  unto  the 
ministerie  of  the  Superintendentis  churche,  the  life,  maneris, 
studye,  and  deligence  of  thair  Ministeris,  to  the  end  that  the 
discretioun  of  some  may  correct  the  lenitie  of  otheris. 

Not  onlie  may  the  life  and  maneris  of  the  Ministeris  cum 
under  censure  and  judgement  of  the  Churche,  hot  also  of 
thair  wiffes,  children,  and  familie;  judgement  must  be  tackin, 
that  he  neather  live  riotuslie,  neathir  yit  avaritiuslie ;  yea, 
respect  must  be  had  how  thay  spend  the  stipend  appointed 
to  thair  loving.  Yf  ane  reasonabill  stypend  be  appointed,  and 
thay  leve  avariciuslie,  thai  must  be  admonisched  to  live  so  as 
thay  resave ;  for  as  excesse  and  superfluitie  is  nocht  tolle- 
rabill  in  ane  minister,  so  is  avarice  and  the  cairfull  sollicitude 
of  money  and  geir^  utterlie  to  be  damned  in  Christis  servandis, 
and  especialie  in  those  that  are  fed  upoun  the  charge  of  the 
Cliurch,  We  judge  it  unseamlie  and  not  tollerabill  that  minis- 
teris shall  be  burdeit  in  commoun  aill-housses  or  tavernis. 

Neathir  yit  must  ane  Minister  be  permitted  to  frequent  and 
comm onlie  hant  the  Court,  onless  it  be  be  for  a  time,  when  he 
is  eathir  send  be  the  Churche,  eathir  yit  called  for  by  the 
Authoritie  for  his  counsall  and  judgement.  Neathir  yit  must 
he  be  one  of  the  counsall  in  Civill  effaires,  be  he  never  judgeit 
so  apt  for  that  purpose ;  but  eathir  must  he  cease  frome  the 
ministerie  (whiche  at  his  awin  plesour  he  may  not  do,)  or  ellis 
from  bearing  charge  in  Civill  effaires,  onles  it  be  to  assist  the 
Parliament  yf  he  be  2  called. 

The  office  of  the  Deaconis,  as  is  before  declared,  is  to  receave 
the  rentis,  and  gadder  the  almous  of  the  Churche,  to  keip  and 
distribute  the  same,  as  by  the  ministerie  of  the  Kirk  shall  be 

1  In  .!il.  1G21,  the  words  "  and  gcir,"  omitted.  -  In  MS.  1506,  "  if  thay  be." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  237 

appointed.  Tliay  may  also  assist  in  judgement  with  tlic 
Ministeris  and  Elderis,  and  may  he  admitted  to  read  in  tlie 
asscmblie  yf  tliei  be  required,  and  be  fund  abill  thairto. 

The  Elderis  and  Deaconis,  with  thair  wiffeis  and  houshaldis 
must  be  under  the  same  censure  that  is  preseribit  for  the 
Ministeris :  for  thay  must  be  cairfull  over  thair  office  ;  and 
seing  that  thay  ar  judgeis  to  the  maneris  of  uthiris,  thair 
awin  conversatioun  aught  to  be  irreprehensible :  Thay  must 
be  sober,  humill,  luifaris  and  interteinaris  of  concord  and  peace  ; 
and,  finalie,  thay  aught  to  be  the  exempill  of  godlines  till 
otheris.  And  yf  the  contrarie  thairof  appeare,  thay  must  be 
admonisched  by  the  Minister,  or  by  some  of  thair  brethren  of 
the  ministerie,  yf  the  fait  be  secreit  ;  and  gif  it  be  oppin  and 
knawin,  it  must  be  rebucked  before  the  ministerie,  and  the 
same  ordour  keipit  against  the  Seniour  or  Deacon,  that  be- 
fore is  describit  aganis  the  Minister. 

We  think  it  nott  necessarie  that  ony  publict  stypend  shall 
be  appointed,  eathir  to  the  Elderis,  or  yit  to  the  Deaconis,  be- 
caus  thair  travell  contineuis  hot  for  ane  yeare ;  and  alsua 
becaus  that  thay  are  not  so  occupyed  with  the  eifares  of  the 
Churche,  but  that  reasonabillie  thay  may  attend  upoun  thair 
domesticall  besynes. 


The  Nnyt  Heade,  concernyng  the  Polecie  of  the 
Churche.i 

Polecie  we  call  ane  exercise  of  the  Churche  2  in  suche 
thingis  as  may  bring  the  rude  and  ignorant  to  knawledge,  or 
ellis  inflambe  the  learned  to  greater  ferveucie,  or  to  reteane 
the  Churche  in  gude  ordour.  And  thairof  thair  be  two  sortis : 
the  one  utterlie  necessarie ;  as  that  the  word  be  treulie  preched, 
the  sacramentis  richtlie  ministrat,  common  prayeris  publictlie 

»  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  XL  *  in  eilit.  1621,   "  Policie  wee  call  an 

exercise  of  the  Kirk." 


238  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

maid ;  that  the  cliildren  and  rude  personis  be  instmcted  in  the 
cheaf  pointis  of  religioun,  and  that  offences  be  corrected  and 
punisched  ;  these  thingis,  we  say,  be  so  necessarie,  that  without 
the  same  thair  is  no  face  of  ane  visible  Kirk.  The  other  is 
proffitablc,  bot  not  of  mere  necessitie  ;  as,  that  Psalmes  suld  be 
sung ;  that  certane  placis  of  the  Scripturis  suld  be  red  whan 
thair  is  no  sermon ;  that  this  day  or  tliat  day,  few  or  many  in 
the  weeke,  the  churche  suld  assemble.  Oif  these  and  suche 
utheris  we  can  not  se  how  ane  certane  ordour  can  be  es- 
tablisched.  For  in  some  churcheis  the  Psalmes  may  be  con- 
venientlie  sung  ;  in  utheris,  perchance,  thay  can  not.  Some 
churcheis  may  convene  everie  day ;  some  thryise  or  twise  in 
the  weeke  ;  some  perchance  bot  onis.  In  these  and  such  like 
must  everie  particular  Churche,  by  thair  awin  consent,  ap- 
point thair  awin  Polecie. 

In  greit  Tounis  we  think  expedient  that  everie  day  thair  be 
eathir  Sermon,  or  ellis  Common  Prayeris,  with  some  exercise 
of  reiding  the  Scripturis.  What  day  the  publict  Sermon  is, 
we  can  neathir  require  or  gretlie  approve  that  the  Commoun 
Prayeris  be  publictlie  used,  least  that  we  shall  eathir  fostar 
the  pcple  in  superstitioun,  wha  come  to  the  Prayeris  as  thay 
come  to  tlie  Messe  ;  or  ellis  give  thame  occasioun  to  think  that 
those  be  no  prayeris  whiche  ar  maid  before  and  efter  Sermon. 

In  everie  notable  Toun,  we  require  that  one  day  besydis  the 
Sunday,  be  appointed  to  the  Sermone  and  Prayeris ;  whiche, 
during  the  tyme  of  Sermone,  must  be  keipit  fre  frome  all  ex- 
ercise of  laubour,  alsweill  of  the  maister  as  of  the  servandis. 
In  smaller  tounis,  as  we  have  said,  the  commoun  consent  of 
the  Churche  must  put  ordour.  But  the  Sunday  must  straitlie 
be  keipit,  both  before  and  efter  noon,  in  all  tounis.  Before 
noon,  must  the  word  be  preached  and  sacramentis  ministered, 
as  also  Mariage  solempnissed,  yf  occasioun  offer :  After  noon 
must  the  young  children  be  publictlie  examinated  in  thair 
Catechisme  in  audience  of  the  pepill,  in  doing  whairof  the 


THE  BUKE  OP  DISCIPLINE.  239 

Minister  must  tak  grot  dcligencc,  alswcill  to  cause  the  Pepill 
to  understand  tlie  questionis  proponed,  as  tlie  ansueiris,  and 
the  doctrine  that  may  be  collected  thairof.  The  ordourl  and 
how  much  is  appointed  for  everie  Sunday,  is  alreaddy  dis- 
tinct it  in  oure  buke  of  Common  Ordour;2  whiche  Catechism 
is  the  most  perfite  that  ever  yit  was  used  in  the  Churche. 
At  efter  noon  also  may  Baptisme  be  ministered,  whan  occa- 
sioun  is  offered  of  great  travell  before  noon.  It  is  also  to  be 
observit,  that  prayeris  be  used  at  after  noon  upoun  the  Sun- 
day, whair  thair  is  neathir  preching  nor  catechisme. 

It  appcrteaneth  to  the  Policie  of  the  Churche  to  appoint  the 
tymes  whan  the  Sacramentis  shall  be  ministered.  Baptisme 
may  be  ministrat  whensoever  the  word  is  preached ;  but  we 
think  it  more  expedient,  that  it  be  ministered  upoun  the 
Sunday,  or  upoun  the  day  of  prayeris,  oulie  after  the  sermon  ; 
partlie  to  remove  this  gross  errour  by  the  which  many  de- 
ceaved,  think  ^  that  children  be  dampned  yf  thay  die  without 
Baptisme  ;  and  partlie  to  mak  the  people  assist  the  adminis- 
tratioun  of  that  sacrament  Avitli  greater  reverence  than  thei 
do.'^  For  we  do  see  the  people  begyn  alreddie  to  wax  weary 
be  rcasoun  of  the  frequent  repetitioun  of  those  premisses. 

Foure  tymes  in  the  yeare  we  think  sufficient  to  the  admi- 
nistratioun  of  the  Lordis  Tabill,  which  we  desire  to  be  dis- 
tincted,  that  the  superstitioun  of  tymes  may  be  avoided  so 
far  as  may  be.  Your  Honouris  ar  nocht  ignorant  how  super 
stitiouslie  the  people  ryn  to  that  actioun  at  Pasche,  evin  as 
[if]  the  tyme  gave  virtue  to  the  Sacrament ;  and  how  the  rest 
of  the  hoill  yeare  thai  ar  cairles  and  negligent,  as  [if]  that  it  ap- 

1  The  Editor  in  17 '2'2,  has  given  tliis  -  See  note  2,  page  210. 

sentence  as  follows  : — "  The  Order  to  be  ^  In  edit.  1G21,  "  many  are  deceived, 

kept  in  teaching   the   Catechism,    and  thinking." 

how  much  of  it  is  appointed  for  every  *  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  make  the  people 

Sunday,  is  already  distinguished  in  the  have  greater  reverence  to  the  adminis- 

Catechism  printed  with  the  Book  of  our  tration  of  the  Sacraments  then   they 

Common  Order.''  have." 


240  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

perteaneth  not  unto  thame  but  at  that  tyme  onlie.  We  think 
thairfore  most  expedient,  that  the  first  Sunday  of  Marche  be 
appointed  for  one  [time] ;  the  first  Sunday  of  Junij  for  ane 
utlier ;  the  first  Sunday  of  September  for  the  thrid  ;  and  the 
first  Sunday  of  December  for  the  fourt.  We  do  not  deny  but 
tliat  any  severall  churche,  for  reasonable  causses,  may  change 
the  tyme,  and  may  minister  ofter ;  but  we  study  to  suppressed 
superstitioun.  All  Ministeris  must  be  admonisclied  to  be 
more  cairfull  to  instruct  the  ignorant  than  readdie  to  satisfied 
thair  ajjpetiteis,  and  more  scharp  in  examinatioun  then 
indulgent,  in  admitting  to  that  great  Mysterie^  such  as 
be  ignorant  of  the  use  and  virtu  of  the  same :  and  thairfore 
we  think  that  the  administratioun  of  the  Table  aught  never 
to  be  witliout  that  examinatioun  pass  before,  especiallie  of 
those  whose  knawledge  is  suspect.  We  think  that  none  ar 
apt  to  be  admitted  to  that  Mysterie  who  can  not  formalie 
say  the  Lordis  Prayer,  the  Articles  of  the  Beleif,  and  declair 
the  soume  of  the  Law.* 

Farthir,  we  think  it  a  thing  most  expedient  and  necessarie, 
that  everie  Churche  have  a  Bibill  in  Inglische,  and  that  the 
people  be  commanded  to  convene  to  heir  the  plane  reiding  or 
interpretatioun  of  the  Scripturis,  as  the  Churche  shall  appoint ; 
that  be  frequent  reiding  this  gross  ignorance,  whiche  in  the 
cursit  Papistrie  hath  overflowne  all,  may  partlie  be  removit. 
We  think  it  most  expedient  that  the  Scripturis  be  red  in  or- 
dour,  that  is,  that  some  one  buke  of  the  Auld  and  the  New 
Testament  be  begun  and  ordourlie  red  to  the  end.  And  the 
same  we  judge  of  preching,  whair  the  Minister  for  [the] 
maist  part  remaneth  in  one  place :  For  this  skipping  and 
divagatioun  frome  place  to  place  of  the  Scripture,  be  it  in 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  minister  oftncr,  but  ^  The  Editor,  in  1722,  supplies,  at  the 

we  studie  to  represse."'  end  of  this  paragraph  :  "  And  under- 

-  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  serve."  standoth  not  the  use  and  virtue  of  this 

^  In  edit.  1621,"  thir  great  mysteries."  holy  Sacrament." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  241 

reiding,  or  be  it  in  prccheing',  wc  judge  not  so  proffitabill  to 
cdific  the  Churche,  as  tlie  continewall  following  of  ane  text. 

Everie  Maister  of  lioushald  must  be  commandit  eathir  to 
instruct,  or  ellis  cans  [to]  be  instructed,  his  children,  servandis, 
and  familie,  in  the  principallis  of  the  Christiane  religioun  ; 
without  the  knawledge  whairof  aught  none  to  be  admitted  to 
the  Tabill  of  the  Lord  Jesus  :  for  suche  as  be  so  dull  and  so 
ignorant,  that  thei  can  neathir  try  thame  selfis,  neathir  yit 
know  the  dignitie  and  misterie  of  that  actioun,  can  not  eat 
and  drink  of  that  Tabill  worthelie.  And  thairfore  of  necessitie 
we  judge  it,  that  everie  yeare  at  least,  publict  examinatioun  be 
had  by  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis  of  the  knawledge  of  everie 
persoun  within  the  Churche ;  to  wit,  that  everie  maister  and 
maistres  of  houshald  cum  thame  selvis  and  thair  familie  so 
many  as  be  cum  to  maturitie,  before  the  Ministeris  and  Elderis, 
to  gyf  confessioun  of  thair  faith,  and  to  ansueir  to  such  cheaf 
points  of  Religioun  as  the  Ministeris  shall  demand.  Such  as 
be  ignorant  in  the  Articulis  of  thair  Faith  ;^  understand  not, 
nor  can  not  rehearse  the  Commandimentis  of  God  ;  knaw  not 
how  to  pray ;  neathir  whairinto  thair  richtuousnes  consistis, 
aught  not  to  be  admitted  to  the  Lordis  Tabill.  And  gif  thay 
stuburnlie  continew,^  and  suffer  thair  children  and  servandis 
to  continew  in  wilfull  ignorance,  the  discipline  of  the  Churche 
must  proceid  against  them  unto  excommunicatioun  ;  and  than 
must  the  mater  be  referred  to  the  Civill  Magistrat.  For  seing 
that  the  just  levith  be  his  awin  faith,  and  that  Christ  Jesus 
justifieth  be  knawledge  off  him  self,  insufferable  we  judge  it 
that  men  shall  be  permitted  to  leve  and  continew  in  ignorance 
as  memberis  of  the  Churche  of  God,^ 

Moreover,  men,  wemen,  and  children  wald  be  exhorted  to 
exercise  thame  selvis  in  the  Psalmes,  that  when  the  Churche 

*  Nearly  two  lines  iu  this  place  are  '  lu  edit.  1621,  "  to  live  as  members 

omitted  in  the  editions  1621  and  1722.        of  the   Kirk,    and   yet   to   continue  in 

^  In    edit.   1621,    "  stubburnly   con-       ignorance." 
temne." 

VOL.  II.  Q 


242  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

convenitli,   and  dois  sing,  thai  may  be  the  more  abill  togither 
with  commoun  heart  and  voice  to  prayse  God. 

In  private  housses  Ave  think  it  expedient,  that  the  most 
grave  and  discreate  persoun  use  the  Commoun  Prayeris  at 
morne  and  at  nycht,  for  the  confort  and  instructioun  of  uthiris. 
For  seing  that  we  behakl  and  se  the  hand  of  God  now  pre- 
sentlie  striking  us  with  diverse  plagues,  we  think  it  ane  con- 
tempt of  his  judgementis,  or  ane  provocatioun  of  his  anger 
more  to  be  kendillit  against  us,  yf  we  be  not  movit  to  repent- 
ence  of  oure  formar  unthankfuhies,  and  to  earnist  invocatioun 
of  His  name,  whois  onlie  power  may,  (and  great  mercy  will,) 
yif  we  unfeynedlie  convert  unto  him,  remove  from  us  these 
terribill  plagues  Avhiche  now  for  our  iniquiteis  hing  oure  our 
headis.     "  Convert  us,  0  Lord,  and  we  shall  be  converted." 


For  Preacheing,!  and  Interpreting  off  Scripturis,  &c. 

To  the  end  that  the  Churche  of  God  may  have  a  tryell 
of  mennis  knawledge,  judgementis,  gracis,  and  utterancis  ;  and 
also,  that  suche  as  somewhat  have  proffited  in  Goddis  worde, 
may  from  tyme  to  tyme  grow  to  more  full  perfectioun  to 
serve  the  Churche,  as  necessitie  shall  require  :  it  is  most  expe- 
dient that  in  evcrie  Toune,  whaire  Schollis  and  repair  of  learn- 
ed Men  ar,  that  thair  be  one  certane  day  everie  weake  ap- 
pointed [to]  that  Exercise,  which  Sanct  Paull  calleth  prophe- 
cieing  ;  the  ordour  whairof  is  expressed  by  him  in  these  words : 
"  Let  two  or  thre  propheitis  speik ;  and  lat  the  rest  judge : 
But  yf  any  thing  be  reveilled  to  him  that  sitteth  by,  lat  the 
formar  keip  silence  :  [For]  ye  may,  one  by  one,  all  prophecie, 
that  all  may  learn,  and  all  may  receave  consolatioun.  And  the 
Spreittis  (that  is,  the  judgementis)  of  the  Propheitis,  are  sub- 
ject to  the  propheitis."     Off  wliiche  wordis  of  the  Apostle,  it  is 

'  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  XII.,  and  the       Prophecying,    or    Interpreting    of   tlie 
title   is,   as   in   tlie   edit.    1621,    "For       Scriptures." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  243 

evident  that  in  Corintlius,  wlian  the  Churche  did  assemble l 
for  that  purpose,  sum  place  of  Scripture  was  red ;  upoun  the 
whiche,  first  one  gyf  his  judgement  to  the  instructioun  and 
consolatioun  of  the  auditouris ;  after  whome  did  one  uthir 
cathir  conferme  what  the  formare  had  said,  or  did  add  what 
he  had  omitted,  or  did  gentillie  coiTect  or  explane  more  pro- 
perlie  whair  the  hoill  veritie  was  not  reveilled  to  the  foraiar. 
And  in  case  sum  thingis  war  hid  frome  the  one  and  frome  the 
uthir,  libertie  Avas  gevin  to  the  thrid  to  speik  his  judgement 
for  edificatioun  of  the  Churche.  Above  the  whiche  nomber 
of  three,  (as  appereth,)  tliaj  passed  not,  for  avoiding  of  con- 
fusioun. 

These  Exercisses,  we  say,  ar  thingis  most  necessarie  for  the 
Churche  of  God  this  day  in  Scotland ;  for  thairby  (as  said  is) 
shall  the  Churche  have  judgement  and  knawledge  of  the 
gracis,  giftis,  and  utterances  of  everie  man  within  tliair  awin 
body  ;  the  simple,  and  suche  as  have  sumwhat  profited,  shall 
be  encurageit  dalie  to  study  and  proceid  in  knawledge  ;  the 
Churche  shall  be  edifyed  ;  (for  this  Exercise  must  be  patent  to 
suche  as  list  to  heir  and  learne,)  and  everie  man  shall  have 
libertie  to  utter  and  declair  his  mynd  and  knawledge  to  the 
confort  and  edificatioun  of  the  Churche. 

But  least  that  of  a  proffitable  Exercise  mycht  aryise^  debate 
and  strife,  curiouse,  peregryne  and  unprofB table  questionis  ar 
to  be  avoided.  All  interpretatioun  disaggreing  from  the  prin- 
cipallis  of  oure  faith,  repugn^mg  to  cheritie,  or  that  standis  in 
plane  contradictioun  to  ony  uthir  manifest  place  of  Scripture, 
is  to  be  rejected.  The  Interpretour  in  that  exercise,  may  nocht 
tack  to  him  self  the  libertie  of  ane  publict  Precheour,  yea, 
althocht  he  be  a  Minister  appointed  ;  but  he  must  bind  him 
self  to  his  text,  that  he  enter  not  by  disgressioun  in  explanyng 
commoun  places.     He  may  use  no  invective  in  that  exercise 

'  In  edit.  1621,   "  that  is  the  Kii-k  of  -  In  edit.  1621,  "  least  of  this  profit- 

Corinth,  when  they  did  assemble."  able  exercise  there  arise." 


244  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

onles  it  be  Avith  sobrietie  in  confuting  heresyes.  In  exhorta- 
tionis  or  admonitionis  he  must  be  scliorte,  tliat  the  tyme  may 
be  spent  in  oppenyng  of  the  mynd  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in  that 
place ;  in  following  the  fyle  ^  and  dependence  of  the  text,  and 
in  observing  suche  notes  as  may  instruct  and  edifie  the  audi- 
tour.  For  avoyding  of  contentioun,  neathir  may  the  interpre- 
tour,  neathir  yit  any  of  the  assemblie,  move  any  questioun  in 
oppen  audience,  whairto  him  self  is  not  content^  to  geve  reso- 
lutioun  without  reasoning  with  any  other ;  but  everie  man 
ought  to  speik  his  awin  judgement  to  the  edificatioun  of  the 
Churche. 

Yf  any  be  noted  with  curiositie,  or  bringyng  in  any  strange 
doctrine,  he  must  be  admonished  by  the  Moderatouris,  the 
Ministeris  and  Eldaris,  immediatlie  after  that  the  interpreta- 
tioun  is  ended.  The  hoill  memberis,^  and  nomber  of  thame 
that  ar  of  the  Assemblie,  ought  to  convene  togetther,  whair 
examinatioun  should  be  had,  how  the  persones  that  did  inter- 
prete  did  handle  and  convey  the  mater  ;  thei  thame  selffis  be- 
ing removed  till  every  man  have  gevin  his  censure  ;  after  the 
w^hiche,  the  persones  being  called,  the  faultes  (yf  any  notable 
be  found)  ar  noted,  and  the  persone  gentillie  admonished. 
In  that  last  Assemblie  all  questionis  and  dowtis,  (yf  any 
arryisc,)  should  be  resolved  without  contentioun. 

The  Ministeris  of  the  Paroche  churches  to  Landwarte,  ad- 
jacent to  everie  cheaf  toune,  and  the  Readaris,  gif  thai  have 
any  gift  of  interpretatioun,  within  sex  myles  must  assist  and 
concur  to  those  that  prophecie  within  the  townes  ;  to  the  end 
that  thei  thame  selves  may  eather  learne,  or  ellis  uthcris  may 
learne  be  thame.  And  moreover,  men  in  whome  ar  supposed 
any  giftis  to  be,  which  mycht  edifie  the  Churche  yf  thei  war 
wcall  applyed,  must  be  charged  by  the  Ministeris  and  Eldaris 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  sequele."  teris;"    the   edition  1722,  after   these 

=  In  edit.  1021,  "  not  able."  words,  adds,  "  with  a  number." 

^  In  edit.  1G21,   "  The  whole  Minis- 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  245 

to  joyiie  thame  selfis  with  that  sessiouii  and  cumpany  of  In- 
terj)retoiiris,  to  the  end  that  the  Churche  may  judge  whether 
thei  he  ahle  to  serve  to  Goddis  glorie,  and  to  the  proffeit  of 
the  Churche  in  the  vocatioun  of  Ministeris  or  not.  And  yf 
any  be  found  disobedient,  and  not  willing  to  communicat  the 
giftis  and  spirituall  graces^  of  God  with  thair  brethren,  after 
sufficient  admonitioun,  discipline  must  procead  against  thame  ; 
provided  that  the  Civile  Magistrate  concur  with  the  judgement 
and  electioun  of  the  Churche.  For  no  man  may  be  permitted 
to  leave  2  as  best  pleasseth  him  within  the  Churche  of  God  ; 
but  everie  man  must  be  constrayned,  by  fraternall  admonitioun 
and  correctioun,  to  bestow  his  laubouris,  when  of  the  Churche 
thei  ar  required,  to  the  edificatioun  of  otheris. 

Wliat  day  in  the  week  is  most  convenient  for  that  exercise, 
and  what  bookes  of  the  Scripturis  salbe  most  profitable  to  be 
red,  we  refer  to  the  judgment  of  everie  particulare  Churche, 
we  meane,  to  the  wisdome  of  the  Ministeris  and  Eldaris. 


Of  Mariage.3 

Becaus  that  Mariage,  the  blessed  ordinance  of  God,  in  this 
cursed  Papistrie  hath  partlie  bene  contempned  ;  and  partlie 
hath  bene  so  infirmed,  that  the  personis  conjoyned  could  never 
be  assured  of  continewance,'^  yf  the  Bischoppis  and  Prelattis 
list  to  dissolve  the  same  ;  we  have  thocht  goode  to  schaw  oure 
judgmentis  how  such  confusioun  in  tymes  cuming  may  be 
best  avoyded. 

And  first  publict  inhibitioun  must  be  maid,  that  na  per- 
sonis under  the  power  and  obedience  of  otheris ;  suche  as 
sonnes  and  dochteris,  [and]  these  that  be  under  curatouris, 
neather  men  nor  wemen,  contract  Mariage  privelie  and  without 

•  In  edit.  1621,  "and  speciall  graces."  *  In   edit.   1621,    "assured   in   con- 
2  In  edit.  1621,  "  to  live."                          science.'" 

*  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  XIII. 


246  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

knawledge  [of  their  parents,  tutors,  or  curators,  under  whose 
power  tliey  are  for  the  time  :]l  whiche  yf  thei  do,  tlie  censure 
and  discipline  of  the  Churche  to  procead  against  thame.  Yf 
the  sone  or  dowghter,  or  other,  have  thair  hearte  tweiclied 
with  desyre  of  mariage,  thei  ar  bound  to  geve  that  honour  to 
the  parentis  that  thei  oppin  unto  thame  thair  affectioun, 
askyng  of  thame  counsall^  and  assistance,  liow  that  motioun, 
which  thei  judge  to  be  of  God,  may  be  performed.  Yf  the 
father,  freind,  or  maister,  ganestand  thair  requeast,  and  have 
na  other  cans  then  the  commoun  sorte  of  men  have ;  to  wit, 
lack  of  guidis,  or  because  thei  ar  nott  so  hyght-borne  as  thai 
requyre ;  yit  must  not  the  pairteis  whose  heartis  ar  tweiclied 
mak  ony  covenant  till  farther  declaratioun  be  maid  unto 
the  Churche  of  God.  And,  thairfoir,  efter  thei  have  opened 
thair  myndis  to  thair  parentis,  or  suche  otheris  as  have  charge 
oure  thame,  thei  must  declair  it  also  to  the  Ministrie,  or  to 
the  Civile  Magistrat,  requyring  thame  to  travaill  with  thair 
parentis  for  thair  consent,  whiche  to  do  thei  ar  bound.  And 
yf  thei,  to  wit,  the  Magistrate  or  Ministeris,  fynd  no  just  caus 
why  the  mariage  requyred  may  not  be  fulfilled,  then  efter 
sufficient  admonitioun  to  the  father,  freind,  maister,  or  supe- 
riour,  that  none  of  thame  resist  the  work  of  God,  the  Ministe- 
rie  or  Magistrat  may  enter  in  the  place  of  the  parent,  and  by 
consenting  to  thair  just  requeastis  may  admit  thame  to 
mariage  :  for  the  work  of  God  aught  not  to  be  hyndered  by 
the  corrupt  afiectionis  of  worldlie  men.  The  work  of  God  we 
call,  Avhen  two  heartis  (without  filthynes  bcfoir  committit)  ar 
so  joyned,  that  boyth  rcquyre  and  ar  content  to  live  together 
in  that  holy  band  of  Matrimonye. 

Yf  any  man  commit  fornicatioun  with  the  woman  whome 
he  requyred  in  mariage,  then  do  boyth  lose  this  foirsaid  bene- 
fite  alsweall  of  the  Churche  as  of  the  Magistrat ;  for  neather 

'"The  words  within  brackets  omitted  -  In  edit.  I6:il,  "  asking  their  coun- 

iii  MS.  ];Vj6,  are  supplied  from  cd.  K).;!.       sell." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  247 

of  boytli  aught  to  be  iiitercessouris  or  advocattis  for  fjltliie 
fornicatours.  But  the  father,  or  neyrest  freind,  whose  dowgliter 
being  a  virgine  is  deflored,  hatli  power  by  the  law  of  God  to 
compell  the  man  that  did  that  injurie  to  marie  his  dowghtter ; 
or  yf  the  father  will  not  accept  him  be  reassone  of  his  offense, 
then  may  he  requyre  the  dote^  of  his  dowghter  ;  whiche  yf  the 
offendar  be  nott  able  to  pay,  then  aught  the  Civile  Magistrat 
to  punishe  his  body  by  some  other  punishement. 

And  becaus  that  fornicatioun,  huredome,  and  advdterye,  ar 
synnes  most  commoun  in  this  Realme,  We  requyre  of  your 
Honouris,  in  the  name  of  the  Eternall  God,  that  severe 
punishement,  according  as  God  hath  commanded,  be  executed 
against  suche  wicked  offendaris;2  for  we  doubt  not  but  suclie 
enorme  crymes^  oppenlie  committed,  provoketh  the  wraytli  of 
God,  as  the  A]30stle  speaketh,  not  onlie  upoun  the  offendaris, 
but  also  upoun  suche  places  as  Avhair,  without  punishement, 
thei  ar  committed. 

But  to  returne  to  oure  formar  purpose  :  Mariage  owght  not  ^o  t 
to  be  contracted  amongis  personis  that  have  no  electioun  for  ma 
lack  of  understanding  ;  and  thairfoir  we  affirm,  that  bairns  and 
infantis  can  nocht  lauchfuUie  be  mareid  in  thair  minor  aige, 
to  wit,  the  man  within  fourtene  yeiris  of  aige,  and  the  woman 
within  twelf  yearis,  at  the  least.  Whiche  yf  it  chance  any  to 
have  bene,  and  have  keapt  thair  bodyis  always  separat,  we  can 
not  judge  tliame  bound  to  adhear  as  man  and  wyifT,  by  reas- 
sone of  that  promeis,  which  in  Goddis  presence  was  no  pro- 
meise  at  all.  But  yf  in  the  yearis  of  judgment  thai  have  em- 
brased  the  one  the  other,  then  be  reassone  of  thair  last  consent, 
thai  have  ratifeid  that  which  otheris  did  promeise  for  thamc 
in  thair  youth-head.'^ 

In  a  Reformed  Churche,  Mariage  ought  nott  to  be  sccreatlio 

'  la  edit.  1621,  "  the  dowrie."  *  In  edit.  172:i,  after  •'  iu  their  yoiUh- 

^  In  edit.  1621,  '-wicked  contemners."  head,"  is  added,  '•  and  are  to  be  held  a? 

^  In  edit.  1621,  ••  such  enormities  and  married  persons." 
orymes." 


REIS 
THE 
HEAD  OF 
RIACE. 


248  THE  BITKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

used,  but  in  open  face  and  puLlict  audience  of  the  Cliuvclie : 
And  for  avoyding  of  dangearis,  expedient  it  is  tliat  the  bannes 
be  publictlie  proclamed  tlire  Sundayi^  (onles  the  persones  be 
[so]  knawin,  that  no  suspitioun  of  dangear  may  arise,  and 
then  may  the  bannes  ^  be  schortned  at  the  discretioun  of  the 
Ministerie.)  But  in  no  wyse  can  Ave  admitt  Mariage  to  be 
used  secreatlie,  how  honorable  that  ever  the  personis  be. 
The  Sunday  befoir  sermon  we  think  most  convenient  2  for 
mariage,  and  it  to  be  used  no  day  ellis  without  the  consent  oX 
the  hoill  Ministerie. 

Mariage  once  lauchfullie  contracted,  may  not  be  dissolved 
at  manis  pleasour,  as  oure  maister  Christ  Jesus  doeth  witnesse, 
onles  adulterie  be  committed  ;  which  being  sufficientlie  proven 
in  presence  of  the  Civil  Magistrat,  the  innocent  (yf  thei  so 
requyre)  ought  to  be  pronunced  frie,  and  the  offendar  aught 
to  suiFer  the  death  as  God  hath  commanded.  Yf  the  Civile 
sweard  foolischelie  spair  the  lyeff  of  the  offendar,  yit  may  not 
the  Churche  be  negligent  in  thair  office,  which  is  to  excommu- 
nicat  the  v/icked,  and  to  repute  thame  as  dead  memberis,  and 
to  pronunce  the  innocent  partie  to  be  at  freedome,  be  thei 
never  so  honourabile  befoir  the  warld.  Yf  the  lyfe  be  spared 
(as  it  ought  not  to  be)  to  the  offendaris,  and  gif  tlie  fructis  of 
repentance  of  long  tyme  appeir  in  thame,  and  gif  thai  earnest- 
lie  desyre  to  be  reconceilled  with  the  Churche,  we  judge  that 
thai  may  be  receaved  to  participatioun  of  the  Sacramentis, 
and  of  the  other  benefits  of  the  Churche,  (for  we  Avoid  not  that 
the  Churche  sould  hold  those  excommunicat  Avhom  God  ab- 
solved, that  is,  the  Penitent.) 

Yf  any  demand,  Avhether  that  the  offendar  after  reconcilia- 
tioun  with  the  Churche,  may  not  marye  agane  ?  We  answer-, 
That  yf  thai  can  not  leve  continent,  and  yf  the  necessitie  be 
suche  as  that  thai  fear  farther  offence  of  God,  we  can  not  for- 

Un  edit.  1()21,  "  may  the  time."  *   In    edit.    1621.  "  The  Sunday  be- 

fore noon,  we  think  most  expedient." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  249 

bid  tliaine  to  use  the  remcaJy  ordayned  of  God.  Yf  the 
partie  offended,  may  be  reconcilled  to  the  offendar,  then  we 
judge  that  in  nowyse  it  shall  be  lauchfull  to  tlic  offendar  to 
mary  any  other,  except  the  partie  that  befoir  hath  bene  offend- 
ed ;  and  the  solempnizatioun  of  the  latter  mariage  must  be  in 
the  open  face  of  the  Churche  lyke  as  the  formare,  but  with- 
out proclamatioun  of  banns. 

This  we  do  offer  as  the  best  Counsall  that  God  geveth  unto 
us  in  so  doubtsome  a  case.  But  the  most  j)erfyte  Reformatioun 
war,  yf  your  Honouris  wald  give  to  God  his  honour  and  glorie, 
that  ye  wold  prefer  his  expresse  commandiment  to  your  awin 
corrupt  judgmentis,  especially  in  punisheing  of  t'hose  crymes 
whiche  he  commandeth  to  be  punished  with  death.  For  so 
should  ye  declair  your  selfis  Godis  treu  and  obedient  officiaris, 
and  your  Commoun- wealth  should  be  redd  of  innumerable 
trubles. 

We  meane  not,  that  synnes  committed  in  our  formar  blynd- 
nes,  (whiche  be  almost  buried  in  oblivioun,)  salbe  callit  agane 
to  cxaminatioun  and  judgment.  But  we  rcquyre  that  the  law 
may  now  and  heirafter  be  so  establisched  and  executed,  that 
this  ungodlie  impunitie  of  synne  have  no  place  within  this 
Realme.  For  in  the  fear  of  God  Ave  signifie  unto  your 
Honouris,  that  whosoever  persuadeth  unto  you,  that  ye  may 
pardone  whair  God  commandeth  death,  deceaveth  your  saulles,  -v  o 
and  provokes  you  to  offend  Goddis  Majestie. 


Off  BuRiALL.i 
BuRiALL  in  all  aiges  hath  bene  holden  in  estimatioun,  to 
signifie  that  the  same  body  that  was  committed  to  the  earth 
should  not  utterlie  perishe,  but  should  lyse  agane.  And  the 
same  we  wold  have  keaj)t  within  this  Realme,  provided  that 
superstitioun,  idolatrie,  and  Avhatsoever  hath  proceaded  of  a 
'  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  XIV. 


250 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 


fals  opinioun,  and  for  advantage  saik,  may  be  avoyded ;  as 
singing  of  Messe,  Placebo,  and  Dirige,  and  all  other  prayeris 
over  or  for  the  dead,  are  not  onlie  supei-fluous  '^  and  vane,  but 
also  ar  idolatrie,  and  do  repugne  to  the  plane  Scriptures  of 
God.  For,  plane  it  is,  that  everie  one  that  dyeth,  departetli 
eatlier  in  the  fayth  of  Christ  Jesus,  or  ellis  departeth  in  incre- 
dulitie :  Plane  it  is,  that  thei  that  depart  in  the  treu  fayth 
of  Christ  Jesus,  rest  frome  tliair  laubouris,  and  frome  death 
[doe]  go  to  lyef  everlasting,  as  by  oure  Maister  and  by  his 
Apostle  we  ar  taught :  But  whosoever  departe  in  unbeleve  or 
in  incredulitie,  shall  never  see  lyef,  but  the  ^\^•ayth  of  God 
abydeth  upoun  him.  And  so,  we  say  that  Prayeris  for  the 
Dead  ar  not  onlie  superfluous^  and  vane,  but  do  expreslie  re- 
pugne to  the  manifest  Scripturis  and  veritie  thairof 

For  avoyding  all  inconvenientis,^  we  judge  it  best,  that 
neather  singing  nor  reading  be  at  the  Buiyall :  for  albeit 
thingis  song  and  red  may  admonishe  some  of  the  leving  to  pre- 
pair  thame  selfis  for  death,  yit  shall  some  superstitious  and 
ignorant  personis  ever  think,'^  that  the  workis  synging  or 
reading  of  the  levying  do  and  may  proflat  the  dead.  And 
thairfoir,  we  think  most  expedient  that  the  Dead  be  convoyed 
to  the  place  of  buriall  with  some  honest  cumpany  of  the 
Churche,  Avithout  eather  singing  or  reading ;  yea,  without  all 
kynd  of  ceremony  heirtofore  used,  uther  than  that  the  dead  be 
committed  to  the  grave,  with  suche  gravitie  and  sobrietie,  as 
those  that  be  present  may  seame  to  fear  the  judgmentis  of 
God,  and  to  hate  synne,  whiche  is  the  cans  of  death. 

And  yit,  nochtwithstanding,  we  are  not  so  precise,  but 
that  we  ar  content  that  particular  kirkis  use  thame  in 
that  behalf,  wyth  the  consent  of  the  ministerie  of  the 


'  lu  erlit.  1G21,  "  which  are  not  only 
superstitious." 
'■>  In  edit.  1621,  "  superstitious." 
'  Jn  edit.  1621,  "  of  all  inconvencies.'' 


*  in  edit.  1621,  several  words  in  this 
sentence,  are  omitted. 

°  This  addition  is  not  contained  in 
the  edit.  1621,  or  any  other  copy. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  251 

same,  as  thei  will  answeir  to  god,  and  assemblie  of  the 
Universall  Kirk  gathered  within  the  Realme. 

We  ar  nott  ignorant  that  some  requyre  ane  Sermone  at  the 
Buriall,  or  elHs  some  places  of  Scripturis  to  be  red,  to  put  the 
loving  in  mynd  that  thei  ar  mortall,  and  that  lykwyise  tliei 
must  dye.  Bot  lett  those  men  understand,  that  the  sermonis 
whiclie  be  daily  maid,  serve  for  that  use  ;  whiche  yf  men  dis- 
pyse,  the  preaching  of  the^  Funerall  sermonis  shall  rather 
nureise  superstitioun  and  a  false  opinioun,  (as  befoir  is  said,) 
then  that  thei  shall  bring  suche  persones  to  any  godlie  con- 
sideratioun  of  thair  awiii  estaite.  Attour,  eather  shall  the 
Ministeris  for  the  most  parte  be  occupyed  in  preaching  Funerall 
sermonis,  or  ellis  thei  shall  have  respect  to  personis,  preaching 
.  at  the  buriall  of  the  rich  and  honorabill,  but  keaping  silence 
when  the  poore  or  dispysed  departeth  ;  and  this  with  saif 
conscience  can  not  the  Ministeris  do.  For,  seing  that  befoir 
God,  thair  is  no  respect  of  personis,  and  that  thair  ministerie 
apperteaneth  to  all  alike,  whatsoever  thei  do  to  the  riche,  in 
resjiect  of  thair  ministerie,  the  same  thei  ar  bound  to  do  to  the 
poorest  under  thair  charge. 

In  respect  of  diverse  inconvenientis,  we  think  it  neather 
scamlie  that  the  Churche  appointed  to  Preaching  and  ministra- 
tioun  of  the  Sacramentis  shalbe  maid  a  place  of  Buriall ;  but 
that  some  other  secreat  and  convenient  place,  lying  in  the 
most  free  air,  be  appointed  for  that  use ;  the  whiclie  place 
aught  to  be  weill  walled  and  fensed  about,  and  keaj)ed  for 
that  use  onlie. 


For  Reparatioun  of  Churuhes.- 
Least  that  the  Avorde  of  God,  and  ministratioun  of  the  Sacra- 
mentis, by  unseamelynes  of  the  place,  come  in  contempt,  of 

'  lu  edit.  1621,  the  words,  •■  preach-  =  In  edit.  1722,  Chap.  XV. 

irifi  of  the."'  are  omitted. 


AGCRKIT  ON 


252  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

necessitie  it  is,  that  the  Churches  and  places  i  whair  the  people 
aught  publictlie  to  convene,  be  with  expeditioun  repaired  in 
durres,  wyndois,  thak,  and  with  suche  preparationis  within,  as 
ai)perteaneth,  alsweall  to  the  majestic  of  the  word^  of  God  as 
•  unto  the  ease  and  commoditie  of  the  people.  And  becaus  we 
knaw  the  slouthfulnes  of  men  in  this  behalf,  and  in  all  other 
whiche  may  not  redound  to  thair  privat  commoditie ;  strait 
charge  and  commandiment  must  be  gevin,  that  within  a  certane 
day  the  reparationis  must  be  begune,  and  within  another  day, 
to  be  affixed  by  your  Honouris,  that  thei  be  finished :  penalteis 
and  soumes  of  money  must  be  injoyned,  and  without  pardone 
taken  from  the  contempnaris. 

The  reparatioun  would  be  according  to  the  possibilitie  and 
nomber  of  the  Churche.^  Everie  Churche  must  have  durres, 
cloise  wyndoes  of  glass,  thak  or  sclait  able^  to  withhold  raine,  a 
bell  to  convocat  the  people  together,  a  pulpite,  a  basyn  for 
baptisme,  and  tables  for  the  ministratioun  of  the  Lordis  Sup- 
par,  In  greater  churches,  and  whair  the  congregatioun  is  great 
in  number,  must  reparatioun  be  maid  within  the  Churche  for 
the  quiet  and  commodious  receaving  of  the  people.  The  ex- 
pensses  to  be  lyfted  jjartlie  of  the  people,  and  partlie  of  the 
teindis,  at  the  consideratioun  of  the  Ministerie. 


For   Punishment  of  those  that  prophane  the  Sacra- 

mentis  and  do  contempt  the  word  of  god,  and  dare 

presume  to  minister  thame,  not  being  thairto  lauch- 

fullie  called.^ 

As  Sathan  hath  never  ceassed  fromc  the  begyning  to  draw 

mankynd  in  one  of  two  extremiteis,  to  wit,  that  men  sliould 

eathir  be  so  ravished  with  gazing  upoun  the  visible  creaturis, 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "that  the  Kii-k  and  ^  In  edit.   1G21,   "  according  to  the 
place."  abilitic  and  number  of  kirks." 

2  In  edit.  1621,  the  words,   "  of  the  *  In  edit.  1621,   "  tliack  able  to." 
word,"  are  omitted.  °  In  edit.  1722,  Ciiap.  XVI. 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  258 

that  forgetting  the  cans  why  thai  war  ordeyned,!  thai  attri- 
buted unto  thame  a  vertew  and  power  which  God  hath  not 
granted  unto  thame ;  or  ellis  that  men  should  sa  contempne 
and  dispyse  Godis  blessed  ordinance  and  holy  institutionis,  as 
[if]  that  neathir  in  the  rycht  use  of  thame  war  thair  any 
proffeit,  neathir  yit  in  thair  prophanatioun  war  thair  any  dan- 
ger. As  this  wyese,  we  say,  Sathan  hath  blynded  the  most 
parte  of  mankynd  from  the  begyning  ;  so  doubt  we  not,  but 
that  he  will  stryve  to  continew  in  his  malice  evin  to  the  end. 
Oure  eyis  have  seane,  and  presentlie  do  see  the  experience  of 
the  one  and  of  the  other.  What  was  the  opinioun  of  most 
parte  of  men,  of  the  Sacrament  of  Christis  bodie  and  bloode, 
during  the  darknes  of  superstitioun,  is  not  unknawin,  how  it 
was  gazed  upoun,  kneeled  unto,  borne  in  processioun,  and 
finallie  wirschipped  and  honored  as  Christ  Jesus  him  solve. 
And  so  long  as  Sathan  mycht  thane  reteane  man  in  that 
damnable  idolatrie,  he  was  quyet,  as  one  that  possessed  his 
kingdome  of  darknes  peceablie.  But  since  that  it  hath  pleas- 
ed the  mercyis  of  God  to  reveill  unto  the  unthankfull  world 
the  lyght  of  his  wourd,  the  lycht  use  and  administratioun  of 
his  sacramentis,  he  assayis  man  upoun  the  contrarie  parte. 
For  whair,  (not  lang  ago,)  men  stude  in  suche  admiratioun  of 
that  idoll  in  the  Messe,  that  none  durst  presume  to  have  said 
the  Messe,  but  the  foirsworne  schavin  sorte,  the  beastis  marked 
men  some  dar  now  be  so  bald  ;  as  without  all  convocatioun,  to 
minister,  (as  thai  suppoise,)  the  treu  sacramentis  in  open  as- 
semblies ;  and  some  idiottis,  (yit  more  wickedlie  and  more 
imprudentlie,)  dar  counterfait  in  thair  housses  that  which  the 
treu  Ministeris  do  in  the  open  congregatioun  ;  thei  presume, 
(we  say,)  to  do  it  in  housses  without  reverence,  witliout  word 
preached,  and  witliout  Minister,  other  then  of  companioun  to 
companioun.2     This  contempt  proceideth,  no  doubt,  from  the 

1  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  cause  wherefore  '  The  last  six  words  are  omitted  in 

they  are  ordained."  edit.  1621. 


254  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

malice  and  craft  of  that  Serpent  wlio  first  deceaved  man,  of 
purpoise  to  deface  the  glory  of  Christis  evangell,  and  to  bring 
his  blessed  sacramentis  in  a  perpetuall  contempt.  And  far- 
ther, your  Honouris  may  clearlie  see  how  proudlie  and  stub- 
burnlie  the  most  parte  despyse  the  Evangell  of  Christ  Jesus 
offered  unto  you  ;  whome  onles  that  scharplie  and  stoutlie  ye 
resist,  we  meane  alsweill  the  manifest  dispysar  as  the  pro- 
phanare  of  the  sacramentis,  ye  shall  fynd  thame  pernitious 
ennemyes  or  it  be  long.  And  thairfoir,  in  the  name  of  the 
Eternall  God,  and  of  his  Sone  Christ  Jesus,  we  require  of  your 
Honouris,  that,  without  delay,  strait  Lawis  be  maid  against 
the  one  and  the  other. 

We  dare  not  prescribe  unto  you  what  penalties  shalbe  re- 
quired of  suche  :  But  this  we  fear  not  to  affinne,  that  the  ane 
and  the  other  deserve  death ;  for  yf  he  which  doeth  falsefye  the 
OPTIMA  COL-  the  seall,  subscriptioun,  or  coynzie  of  a  king  is  adjudged  wor- 
thy of  death  ;  what  shall  we  think  of  him  who  planlie  doeth 
falsefye  the  Seallis  of  Christ  Jesus,  Prince  of  the  Kingis  of  the 
earth  ?  Yf  Darius  pronunced,  that  a  bank  i  should  be  taken 
frome  the  house  of  that  man,  and  he  him  self  hinged  upoun 
it,  that  durst  attempt  to  hinder  the  re-edificatioun^  of  the 
materiall  Temple,  What  shall  we  say  of  those  that  contemp- 
teouslie  blaspheme  God,  and  manifestlie  hynder  the  [spirituall] 
Temple  of  God,  which  is  the  saullis  and  bodyis  of  the  elect, 
to  be  purged  by  the  treu  preaching  of  Christ  Jesus,  from  the 
superstitioun  and  damnable  idolatrie  in  which  thai  have  bene 
of  long  plunged  and  holdin  captive  ?  Yf  ye,  (as  God  forbid,) 
declair  your  selfis  cairless  ower  the  treu  Religioun,  God  will 
not  suffer  your  negligence  unpunished.  And  thairfoir,  moir 
earnestlie  require  we,  that  strait  lawis  may  be  maid  against 
the  stubburne  contempnaris  of  Christ  Jesus,  and  against  such 
as  dare  presume  to  minister  his  Sacramentis,  not  ordourlie 
called  to  that  office,  least  that  whill  thair  be  none  found  to 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  a  balk."  «  In  edit.  1021,  "  the  re-edifying." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  255 

ganestand  impietie,  tlie  wrayth  of  God  be  kindilled  against 
the  hoill. 

The  Papisticall  Preastis  liave  neather  power  nor  authoritie 
to  minister  the  Sacramentis  of  Christ  Jesus ;  becaus  that  in 
thair  mouth  is  not  the  sermon  of  exhortatioun.  And  thairfoir, 
to  thame  most  strait  inhibitioun  be  maid,  notwithstanding 
any  usurpatioun  whiche  thai  have  had  in  tliat  behalf  in  the 
tyme  of  blyndnes  :^  It  is  neathir  the  clipping  of  thair  crownes, 
the  crossing^  of  thair  fingaris,  nor  the  blowing  of  the  dum 
doggis,  called  the  Bischopis,  neathir  yit  the  laying  on  of  thair 
handis,  that  maketli  thame  treu  Ministeris  of  Christ  Jesus. 
But  the  Spreit  of  God  inwardlie  first  moving  the  lieartis  to 
seke  ^  Christis  glorie  and  the  proifeit  of  his  Churche,  and 
thaireftir  the  nominatioun  of  the  People,  the  examinatioun  of 
the  learned,  and  publict  admissioun,  (as  befoir  is  said,)  maikis 
men  lauchfull  Ministeris  of  the  wourd  and  sacramentis.  We 
speak  of  ane  ordinarie  vocatioun,  whare  churches  ar  refomied, 
or  at  least  tend  to  reformatioun,*  and  not  of  that  which  is 
extraordinarye,  when  God  by  him  self,  and  by  his  only  power, 
rascth  up  to  the  Ministerie  such  as  best  pleaseth  his  wisdome. 


The  Conclusioun. 
Thus  have  we,  in  these  few  Headis,  oflFered  unto  youre 
Honouris  oure  judgmentis,  according  as  we  war  commanded, 
tueching  the  Reformatioun  of  thingis  which  heirtofoir  have 
altogidder  bene  abused  in  this  curssed  Papistrie.  We  doubt 
not  but  some  of  oure  Petitionis  shall  appear  strange  unto  you 
at  the  first  sight.     But  yf  your  Wisdomes  deaplie  considder, 

1  The  edit.  1722,  here  supplies,  "not       seek  to  enter  in  the  holy  Calling  for 
to  presume  upon  the  like  hereafter,  as       Christis  glorie." 

likewise  to  all  others  who  are  not  law-  *  In  edit.  1G21,  the  words  after  "  or- 

fuUy  called  to  the  holy  Ministry."  dinarie  vocation"  are  omitted  :  in  the 

2  In  edit.  1621,  "  the  greasing."  edit.  1722,  their  place  is  thus  supplied, 
'  In  edit.  1722,  is  here  added,  "  to  "  in  Kirks  reformed." 


256  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

that  we  must  ansuer  not  onlie  unto  men,  but  also  befoir  the 
throne  of  the  Et email  God,  and  of  his  Sone  Christ  Jesus,  for 
the  counsall  which  we  geve  in  this  so  grave  a  mater ;  your 
Honouris  shall  easilie  considder,  that  more  assured  it  is  till  us 
to  fall  in  the  displeasour  of  all  men  in  earth,  then  to  offend  the 
Majestie  of  God,  whose  justice  can  not  suffer  flatteraris  and 
deceitfull  Counsalouris  unpunished. 

That  we  require  the  Churche  to  be  set  at  suche  libertie, 
that  scho  neathir  be  compelled  to  fead  idill  bellyes,  neathir  yit 
to  susteane  the  tyrannye  which  heirtofoir  by  violence  hath 
bene  manteaned,  Ave  know  will  offend  many.  But  yf  we 
should  keape  silence  heirof,  we  ar  most  assured  to  offend  the 
just  and  lychtcous  God,  who  by  the  mouth  of  his  Apostle 
hath  pronunced  this  sentence  : — "  He  that  lauboretli  nott,  let 
him  not  eat."  Yf  we  in  this  behalf,  or  in  any  other,  requyre 
or  ask  any  [other]  thing,  than  by  Goddis  expressed  commandi- 
ment,  by  equitie  and  good  conscience  ye  ar  bound  to  grant, 
lett  it  be  noted,  and  after  rej)udiat ;  but  yf  we  require  no- 
thing Avhich  God  requyreth  not  also,  let  your  Honouris  tack 
head,  how  ye  ganestand  the  charge  of  him  whose  hand  and 
punishment  ye  can  not  eschape. 

Yf  blynd  affectioun  rather  lead  you  to  have  respect  to  the 
sustentatioun  of  those  your  carnall  Freindis,  who  tyrannouslie 
have  impyred  above  the  poor  flock  of  Christ  Jesus,  than  that 
the  zeall  of  Goddis  glorie  provock  and  move  you  to  sett  his 
oppressed  Churche  at  fredome  and  libertie,  we  fear  your 
scharpe  and  suddane  punischmentis,  and  that  the  glorie  and 
honour  of  tliis  interpryse  be  reserved  unto  otheris. 

And  yitt  shall  this  oure  judgment  abyd  to  the  Generationis 
following  for  a  monument  and  witness,  how  lovinglie  God 
called  you  and  this  Realmei  to  repentance,  what  counsallouris 
God  send  unto  you,  and  how  ye  [have]  used  the  same.  Yf 
obedientlie  ye  hear  God  now  calling,  wo  douI)t   not  but  he 

'  In  edit.  1621,  "  this  natidn." 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  257 

shall  hear  you  in  your  greatest  necessitie.  But  yf,  following 
youre  awin  corrupt  judgmentis,  ye  contempt  his  voice  and  vo- 
catioun,  we  ar  assured  that  your  formare  iniquitie,  and  pre- 
sent ingratitude,  shall  togither  crave  just  punishment  frome 
God,  who  can  not  long  delay  to  execute  his  most  just  judg- 
mentis, when,  after  many  offenses  and  long  blyndness,  grace 
and  mercy  offered  is  contemptuouslie  refused. 

God  the  Father  of  oure  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  by  the  power  of 
his  Holy  Spreit,  so  illuminat  your  heartis,  that  ye  may  clearlie 
see  what  is  pleasing  and  acceptable  in  his  presence ;  so  bow 
the  same  till  his  obedience,  that  ye  may  prefer  his  reveilled 
Avill  to  your  awin  affection  is ;  and  so  strengthen  you  by  the 
sjjreit  of  fortitude,  that  boldlie  ye  may  punishe  vyce,  and 
maintene  virtue  within  this  Realme,  to  the  praise  and  glorie  of 
his  Holy  name ;  to  the  conforte  and  assurance  of  your  awin 
Consciences,  and  to  the  consolatioun  and  good  example  of  the 
Posteriteis  following.     Amen.     So  be  it. 

By  your  Honouris 

Most  humble  Servitouris,  etc. 
Frome  Edinburgh, 
The  20of  Mciij  1560. 

Act  of  Secreit  Counsall,  xxvii  Januarii,  Anno  &c.,  lx°.i 
We,  quhilkis  hes  subscryvit  thir  Presentis,  haveand  avysit 
with  the  Articles  heirin  specifeit,  as  is  abone  mentionat  fra 
the  begynning.  of  this  Book,  thinkis  the  samin  good,  and  con- 
forme  to  Goddis  Word  in  all  pointis  ;  confomie  to  the  Notes 
and  Additionis  thairto  eikit ;  and  promittis  to  sett  the  samiu 
fordwarte  at  the  uttermost  of  oure  poweris :  Providing  that 
the  Bischoppis,  Abbotis,  Priouris,  and  otheris  Prelattis  and 
beneficit  men,  quhilkis  ellis  hes  adjonit  thame  to  us,  bruik  the 

1  That  is,  the  27th  (in  edit.  1621,  the  did  not  begin  at  that  time  till  the  2oth 
17th)  of  January  1560-1;  as  the  year      of  March. 

VOL.  IL  R 


258  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

reveneues  of  thair  benefices  during  tliair  liftymes,  tliei  sus- 
teanand  and  uplialdand  the  Ministerie  and  Ministeris,  as  is 
herein  specifeit,  for  preaching  of  the  Word,  and  ministering  of 
the  Sacramentis  of  God. 

(Sic  Suhscrihitur.) 
James.  ^ 

James  Hammylton.2  Glencarn.^s 

Ar".  Ergyll.3  Uchiltrie.  ^'^ 

James  Stewart.^  Sanquhar.  20 

RoTHESs.^     James  Haliburton.^  Sanctjohns.  ^^ 

R.  Boyd."  William  Lord  Hay.'^^^ 

ALEX^  Campbell,  Dene  of  Drumlangrike.23 

MURRAY.8  CoNYGHAMHEID.2^ 

ViLLIAM  OF  CdLROS.9  JoHNE  MaXWELL.^^ 

Maister  ALEX^  GoRDouN.it>  George  Fentoun  of 

Bargany  Younger.11  that  Ilk.^^ 

Andro  Ker  of  Fawdonsyd^^  Lochinware.27 

T.  Scott  of  Hanyng.'^^ 

Johne  Lokhart  of  Bar  I'M 

George  Corrie  of  KehvodM 

Johne  Schaw  of  Halie}^ 

Andro  Hammyltoun  of  LethameM 


*  James  Duke  of  Chattelherault,  Regent  and  Governor  of  Scotland,  after  the 
death  of  James  the  Fifth :  see  vol.  i.  pp.  95,  242.  In  edit.  1621,  his  name  is 
omitted  in  the  above  list. 

^  James  tliird  Eai-1  of  Arran,  and  eldest  son  of  the  Duke  of  Chattelherault. 
Owing  to  his  declared  incapacity,  at  his  father's  death,  in  1575,  the  family  estates 
devolved  upon  Lord  John  Hamilton  the  second  son  ;  but  the  Earl  survived  till  1609. 

^  Archibald  fifth  Earl  of  Argyle,  succeeded  to  the  title  in  1558.  He  at  first  ad- 
hered to  the  Queen  Regent,  but  soon  joined  the  Lords  of  the  Congregation,  and 
continued  to  act  along  with  the  Earl  of  Murray,  until  1568,  when  he  went  over  to 
the  Queen's  party,  without  materially  aiding  her  cause.  When  the  Earl  of  Mor- 
ton was  chosen  Regent,  the  Earl  of  Argyle  succeeded  him  as  Lord  Chancellor, 
17th  January  1573  ;  but  he  did  not  long  enjoy  his  honours,  having  died  suddenly 
on  the  12th  September  1573,  and  not  1575  as  stated  in  the  Peerages  and  other 
works.     (Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  p.  337,  and  Rcgis^ter  of  Confirmed  Testaments.) 


THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE.  259 

■•  Lord  James  Stewart,  Comniendator  of  St.  Andrews  and  Pittenweem ;  after- 
wards Earl  of  Murray,  and  Regent  of  Scotland. 

^  Andrew  fourth  Earl  of  Rothes,  succeeded  on  the  death  of  his  father,  No- 
vember 1558. 

"  In  the  MS.  this  name  stands  in  a  kind  of  intermediate  column  by  itself.  James 
Halyburtou,  sometimes  styled  Tutor  of  Pitcur.  He  was  a  person  of  great  activity 
and  hifluence,  and  filled  the  office  of  Provost  of  Dundee  for  the  long  period  of 
thirty-three  years.     He  died  in  1588,  aged  seventy. 

'  Robert,  fourth  Lord  Boyd,  had  a  pension  from  England,  and  was  concerned  in 
most  of  the  jjublic  affairs  between  1560,  and  the  Raid  of  Ruthven  in  1582.  He  was 
appointed  an  Extraordinary  Lord  of  Session,  24th  October  1573.  Although  removed 
in  1578,  he  was  subsequently  restored,  and  died  3d  January  1590,  in  the  72d  year 
of  his  age.     (Brunton  &  Haig's  Senators  of  the  College  of  Justice,  p.  155.) 

*  Alexander  Campbell,  Dean  of  Murray,  was  the  third  son  of  Colin,  third  Earl 
of  Argyle.  In  the  edit.  1621,  the  name  Dean  of  Murray  has  been  separated  from 
Alexander  Campbell,  as  if  two  distinct  persons.  Alexander  Dunbar,  Sub-Chantor 
of  Murray,  was  appointed  a  Lord  of  Session,  16tli  August  1560,  as  he  appears 
in  the  Books  of  Sederunt,  on  the  26th  June  1566,  under  the  designation  of  Dean  of 
Murray,  we  may  presume  that  Campbell  was  then  dead. 

^  William  Colville,  Commendator  of  Culross  :  see  note  in  the  Appendix  to  the 
present  volume. 

'"  Alexander  Gordon,  titular  Archbishop  of  Athens,  was  second  son  of  John, 
Master  of  Huntly,  by  Jane,  natural  daughter  of  King  James  the  Fourth.  He  was 
Bishop  of  the  Isles,  in  1553,  and  Abbot  of  Inchaffray  and  Icolmkill ;  and  was 
translated  to  the  See  of  Galloway,  after  the  death  of  Andrew  Durie,  in  Septem- 
ber 1558.  He  joined  the  Reformers,  and  still  enjoyed  his  titles;  but  he  was  not 
allowed  to  exercise  his  functions  as  a  bishop,  nor  was  his  petition  acceded  to,  to 
be  appointed  visitor  of  the  churches  within  his  diocese  of  GalloAvay.  He  died  11th 
November  1575.     (Register  of  Confirmed  Testaments.) 

11  Thomas  Kennedy,  of  Bargany,  (in  the  parish  of  Dailly,  Ayrshire,)  the  son  of 
Sir  Thomas  Kennedy.  In  1540,  he  is  styled  "  Apparent  of  Bargany;"  and  died 
in  June  1564.     (Register  of  Confirmed  Testaments,  26th  April  1580.) 

1-  Andi-ew,  (frequently  by  mistake  called  Sir  Andrew)  Ker  of  Faldonsyde,  in 
Selkirkshire.  He  was  concerned  in  Riccio's  murder,  and  was  at  the  battle  of 
Langsyde  in  1568.  He  had  from  Parliament  a  ratification  of  the  third  part  of  the 
lands  and  barony  of  Bolton  in  1581.  He  married,  for  his  second  wife,  Margaret 
Stewart,  daughter  of  Lord  Ochiltree,  and  widow  of  John  Knox.  He  died  about 
the  year  1598. 

"  Thomas  Scott  of  Hayning,  in  Selkirkshire.  A  Charter  of  Confirmation,  "  quon- 
dam Thomoe  Scott  de  Hanyng,"  of  the  lands  of  Eleistoun,  in  the  shire  of  Roxburgh, 
dated  23d  March  1575-6,  shows  that  he  was  dead  in  1576. 

"  John  Lockhart  of  Bar,  in  the  parish  of  Galston,  Ayrshire.  He  died  before  10th 
May  1575,  when  his  son  John  Lockhart  of  Bar  was  served  his  heir.  (Retours, 
Ayr,  No.  13.) 

15  In  the  edit.  1621,  this  name  is  omitted.  George  Corrie  of  Kelwood  was  served 
heir  of  his  father,  Thomas  Corrie  of  Kelwood,  "  qui  obiit  sub  Majestatis  vexillo  in 
bello  de  Fausyde,"  25th  October  1547.  (Retours,  Ayr,  No.  2.)  He  was  alive  in 
December  1580.     (Pitcairn's  Crim.  Trials,  vol.  i.  p.  89.) 

"  John  Schaw  of  Haly,  near  Largs,  in  Ayrshire. 


260  THE  BUKE  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

"  Andrew  Hamilton  of  Lethame,  in  Lanarkshire.  He  was  Captain  of  the  Castle 
of  Dumbarton  in  1546.  He  went  to  France  on  a  mission  in  1550,  and  had  a  char- 
ter under  the  Great  Seal  of  the  lands  of  Drumcross,  in  the  county  of  Linlithgow  in 
1552.  He  was  at  the  Raid  of  Stirling  in  1571,  and  died  before  1585.  (Anderson's 
House  of  Hamilton,  pp.  320,  469.) 

"  Alexander  Earl  of  Glencairn :  see  vol.  i.  p.  72.  He  died  in  the  year  1574. 
(Register  of  Confirmed  Testaments.) 

1®  Andrew,  second  Lord  Stewart,  of  Ochiltree  or  Uchiltree,  in  Ayrshire.  He  suc- 
ceeded to  the  title  in  1548,  and  survived  till  near  the  close  of  the  16th  century. 

-°  Edward  Lord  Crichton  of  Sanquhar,  ancestor  of  the  Earls  of  Dumfi-ies  (now 
represented  by  the  Marquis  of  Bute.)  He  died  23d  May  1569,  and  was  succeeded 
by  "  his  son  and  air,  Ptobert,  now  Lord  Creichton,"  who  was  then  a  minor.  (Re- 
gister of  Confirmed  Testaments,  8th  Mai-ch  1573-4.) 

^  Sir  James  Sandilands,  Lord  St.  John,  and  afterwards  Lord  Torphichen  :  see 
vol.  i.  p.  301 ;  vol.  ii.  p.  125. 

^  William  fifth  Lord  Hay  of  Yester,  was  served  heir  of  his  father  in  1559.  He 
died  in  August  1576. 

2^  Sir  James  Douglas  of  Drumlanrig,  ancestor  of  the  Marquesses  of  Queensberry, 
was  Knighted  by  the  Governor  of  Scotland  in  1553,  and  appointed  AYarden  of  the 
West  IMarches.     He  died  in  1578. 

^*  William  Cunningham  of  Cunninghamhead,  in  Ayrshire.  He  died  in  January 
1575-6.     (Register  of  Confirmed  Testaments,  17th  April  1577.) 

^  In  edit.  1621,  "  James  Maxwell."  As  John  sixth  Lord  Maxwell  was  a  minor 
at  his  father's  death  in  1552,  and  was  not  served  heir  till  May  1569,  it  was  no 
doubt  Sir  John  Maxwell  of  Terreglis,  (who  became  Lord  Herries  in  1567,)  whose 
signature  was  attached  to  the  Book  of  Discipline. 

^  George  Fenton  of  Fenton  was  probably  succeeded  by  "  John  Fenton  of  that 
Ilk,"  to  whom  the  three  daughters  of  Patrick  Quhitlaw  of  Quhitlaw  were  served 
heirs-portioners  of  their  grand-uncle  (cihamts),  30th  March  1586.  (Retours,  Had- 
dington, Nos.  399,  400,  401.)— In  MS.  1566,  the  name  is  made  "  George  Seton." 
As  Lord  Seaton  was  the  head  of  the  family,  there  could  be  no  Seaton  of  that  Ilk ; 
and  George  fifth  Lord  Seaton  never  joined  the  Reformers. 

2'  Sir  John  Gordon  of  Lochinvar,  in  Kirkcudbrightshire,  the  ancestor  of  the  Earls 
of  Kenmure.  In  1555,  he  was  appointed  Justiciary  of  the  Lordship  of  Galloway. 
He  survived  till  the  year  1004.     (Douglas  and  Wood's  Peerage,  vol.  ii.  p.  25.) 


According  to  Knox,  (see  page  129,)  who  is  followed  by  Calderwood,  Petrie,  Spotis- 
wood,  and  other  writers,  in  addition  to  the  above  Subscribers  to  the  Book  of  Dis- 
cipline, there  were, 

William,  Earl  Marischall. 

John,  Earl  of  Menteith. 

Jajiks,  Earl  of  Morton,  (afterwards  Regent.) 

JouN,  Lord  Lindesay  of  the  Byris. 

Patrick  Master  of  Lindesay. 

Sir  Alexander  Stewart,  Yovmger  of  Garlics,  (who  was 
slain  at  Stirling  in  September  1571.) 


THE  FOURT  BOOK  OF  THE  PROGRESSE  AND 
CONTINUANCE  OF  TREU  RELIGIOUN  WITH- 
IN SCOTLAND. 


[     203     ] 


In  the  former  Bookis,i  gentill  Reidar,  thou  may  clearlie  see 
how  potentlie  God  hath  performed,  in  these  our  last  and  wicked 
dayis,  alsweall  as  in  the  aiges  that  have  passed  befoir  us,  the 
premisses  that  is  maid  to  the  servandis  of  God,  by  the  pro- 
pheite  Esais,  in  these  wordis  : — "  Thei  that  waite  upoun  the 
Lord  shall  renewe  thair  strenth ;  thei  sail  lift  up  the  wynges  as 
the  egies :  thei  shall  runne,  and  not  be  wearie  ;  thei  shall  walke, 
and  not  fainte."  This  promeise,  we  say,  suche  as  Sathan  hath 
not  utterlie  blyndit  may  see  jjerformed  in  us,  the  professouris 
of  Christ  Jesus,  within  this  Realme  of  Scotland,  with  no  les 
evidencye,  than  it  was  in  any  aige  that  ever  have  passed  befoir 
us.  For  what  was  oure  force  ?  What  was  our  nomber  ?  Yea, 
what  wisdome  or  warldlie  pollicey  was  into  us,  to  have  brought 
to  ane  goode  end  so  great  ane  interpryse?  Oure  verray 
enemyes  can  bear  witnesse.  And  yit  in  how  great  puritie 
God  did  establisse  amanges  us  his  treu  Religioun,  alsweall 
in  doctrine  as  in  ceremonyes  !  To  what  confusion  and  fear  war 
idolateris,  adulteraris,  and  all  publict  transgressoris  of  Goddis 
commandimentis,  Avithin  short  tyme  brought  ?  The  publict 
ordour  of  the  Church e,2  yet  by  the  mercy  of  God  preserved,  and 
the  punishmentis  executed  against  malefactouris,  can  testifie 
unto  the  world.  For  as  tueching  the  doctrine  taught  by  our 
Ministeris,  and  as  tueching  the  administratioun  of  Sacramentis 
used  in  our  Churches,  we  ar  bold  to  affirme,  that  thair  is  no 

^  In  MS.  L  4,  is  this  note  at  the  top  ing  page.  In  the  MS.  1566,  the  corn- 
margin,  "  This  Preface  was  not  written  mencement  of  Book  Fourth  forms  part 
by  Mr.  Knox  untill  the  moneth  of  Maij  of  one  of  the  re-written  quires  or  sets. 
1566."  This  indeed  we  learn  from  «  MS.  G,  has  always  "  Kirk ;"  MSS. 
Knox's  own  words,  in  the  second  follow-  M,  and  L  4,  "  Churche." 


THE  FIKST 
PETITlnrN 
OF  THE  PRO- 
TESTANTIS 
OF  SCOT- 
LAND. 


264  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

realme  this  clay  upoun  the  face  of  the  earth,  that  liath  thame 
in  grettar  puritie ; — yea,  (we  mone  speak  the  treuth  whome- 
soever  we  offend,)  thair  is  none  (no  realme,  we  meane)  that 
hath  thame  in  the  lyek  puritie  :  For  all  otheris  (how  synceare 
that  ever  the  doctrine  be,  that  by  some  is  taught,)  reteane  in 
thair  churches,  and  the  ministeris  thairof,  some  footsteppis  of 
Antichrist,  and  some^  dreg'gis  of  Papistrie ;  ^  but  we  (all  praise 
to  God  alone)  have  no  thing  within  oure  Churches  that  ever 
flowed  frome  that  Man  of  synne  :  And  this  we  acknowledge  to 
be  the  strenth  gevin  unto  us  by  God,  because  we  esteamed 
nott  our  selves  wyise  in  oure  awin  eyes,  but  understanding  our 
hoill  wisdome  to  be  but  meare  foolishnes,  befoir  [the  Lord] 
our  God,  layed  it  asyd,  and  followed  onlie  that  whiche  we  fand 
approved  by  him  self 

In  this  poynt  could  never  our  enemyes  cans  us  to  fainte,  for 
our  first  Petitioun  was,  "  That  the  reverent  face  of  the  primi- 
tive and  apostolick  Churche  should  be  reduced  agane  to  the 
eyes  and  knowledge  of  men." ^  And  in  that  poynt,  we  say,  our 
God  hath  strenthened  us  till  that  the  work  was  finished,  as 
the  world  may  see.  And  as  concerning  the  suppressing  of 
vice,  yea,  and  of  the  abolishing  of  all  suche  thingis  as  myght 
nureiso  impietie  within  the  Realme,  the  actes  and  statutis  of 
the  principale  Townes  reformed  will  yitt  testifie  :  For  what 
adulterar,  what  fornicatour,  what  knawin  niesse-mongare,  or 
pestilent  Papist,  durst  have  been  seen  in  publict,  within  any 
reformed  town  within  this  Realme,  befoir  that  the  Queue 
ariyved?  And  this  victorie  to  his  wourde,  and  terrour  to  all 
fylthie  lyvaris,  did  oure  God  wirk  by  such  as  yit  leave  and 
remaine  witnesses  (whither  thei  will  or  not)  of  the  foirsaid 
workis  of  our  God.  We  say,  our  God  suffered  none  of  those 
whome  he  first  called  to  the  battell,  to  perishe  or  to  fall,  till 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  some  "  is  onutted.  In  ^  See  the  Petitions  referred  to,  in  vol. 
MS.  L  4,  "  some  degrees."                           i.  pp.  306,  333,  &c. 

2  In  the  margin  of  MS.  G,  "  Witness 
the  tippets  and  cornered  cappes." 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  265 

that  he  maid  thaine  victouris  of  tliair  enncmyes:  For  cvin  a.s 
God  suifered  none  of  tliose  whome  he  called  frome  Egypt  to 
perishe  in  the  Red  Sea,  how  fcarfull  that  ever  the  danger 
appeared  ;  so  suffered  he  none  of  us  to  be  oppressed,  nor  yit  to 
be  takkin  from  this  lyeff,  till  that  mo  Pharaoes  then  one  war 
drowned,  and  we  set  at  fredome,  without  all  dangear  of  our 
ennemycs;  to  lett  boythus  and  our  posteritie  understand,  that 
suche  as  follow  the  conducting  of  God  can  not  perishe,  albeit 
that  tliei  walked  in  the  verray  schaddo  of  death. 

But  frome  Avhence  (allace)  cumeth  this  miserable  disjjersioun 
of  Goddis  people  within  this  Realme,  this  day,  Anno  1.566,  in 
Maij  ?^  And  what  is  the  cause  that  now  the  just  is  compelled 
to  keap  silence  ?  good  men  ar  banished,  murtheraris,  and  such 
as  ar  knowin  unworthie  of  the  commoun  societie,  (yf  just  lawis  the  caus 

'   ^"^       •'  OF  THE 

war   put   in   deu   executioun.)   bear  the   hoill   regiment  and  trubillis 

^         ,  ,  tiF  THE 

sw^'nge  within  this  Realme  ?     We  answere,  Becaus  that  sud-  ^'^-^  ^"^• 


IM  SCOT- 


dandlie  the  most  parte  of  us  declyncd  from  the  puritie  of 
Goddis  word,  and  began  to  follow  the  warld ;  and  so  agane  to  courteiTs^ 
schaik  handis  with  the  Devill,  and  with  idolatrie,  as  in  this  ed'top^o? 
Fourte  Booke  we  will  hear.  eva:>-gell.5 

For  Avhill  that  Papistis  war  so  confounded,  that  none  within 
the  Realme  durst  more  avow  the  hearing  or  saying  of  Messe, 
then  the  theavis  of  Lyddesdaill  durst  avow  thair  stowth  in  pre- 
sence of  ane  upryght  judge,  thair  war  Protestants  found,  that 
eschamed  not  at  tables,  and  other  oj)en  places,  to  ask,  "  Why 
may  nott  the  Queyn  have  hir  awin^  Messe,  and  the  forme  of 
hir  Religioun  ?  Wliat  cane  that  hurte  us  or  our  Religioun?"  And 

1  This  "  dispersioun  of  Goddis  peo-  residing    in   Kyle,    in   continuing   his 

pie,"  refers  to  what  occurred  shortly  History,  this  may  serve  to  explain,  al- 

after  the  murder  of  David  Riccio,  when  though  not  to  justify,  the  very  strong 

besides  the  persons  who  were  implicated  language  which  he  frequently  uses  in 

in  tliat  outrage,  many  others,  Uke  Knox  mentioning  Queen  Jlary,  and  the  license 

liimsclf,  who  had  rendered  themselves  of  the  courtiers. 

obnoxious  to  the  Queen,  were  obliged  -  MS.  L  4,  adds  to  this  marginal  note, 

to  fly  from  Edinburgh  for  safety.     As  the  words,  "and  did  it  not," 

Knox  was  employed  at  this  time,  while  '  MS.  G.  omits  "  awin." 


266  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

from  these  two,  "  Wliy  "  and  "  What,"  at  lenthc  sprange  out 
this  affirmative,  "  The  Quenis  Messe  and  hir  Preastis  will  we 
manteine :  this  hand  and  this  rapper  sail  feg-ht  in  thair 
defence,  etc." 

The  inconvenientis  war  schawin,  both  by  tongue  and  pen ; 
but  the  advertissaris  war  judged  to  be  men  of  unquyet  spreatis. 
Thair  credytt  was  defaced  at  the  handis  of  suche  as  befoir  war 
not  eschamed  to  have  used  thair  counsall,  in  materis  of  greattar 
importance  then  to  have  resisted  the  Messe.  But  then,  my 
Lord,  my  Maister,  may  nott  be  thus  used  :  he  hes  that  honour 
to  be  the  Quenis  brother ;  and  thairfoir  we  will  that  all  men 
shall  understand  that  he  man  tender  her  as  his  sister ;  and 
whosoever  will  counsall  him  to  displease  her,  or  the  least  that 
apperteanes  unto  hir,  shall  not  find  him  thair  freind ;  yea,  thei 
ar  worthy  to  be  hanged  that  wald  so  counsall  him,  etc. 

These  and  the  lyke  reassonis  took  suche  deape  roote  in 
flesche  and  bloode,  that  the  trewth  of  God  was  almost  foryett ; 
and  from  this  fontaine  (to  wit,  that  flesche  and  blood  was,  and 
yitt  allace,  is  preferred  to  God,  and  to  his  messengeris  re- 
bucking  vice  and  vanitie)  hath  all  our  miserie  proceeded.  For 
as  befoir,  so  even  yitt,  althought  the  Ministeris  be  sett  to  beg, 
the  Guard  and  the  Men  of  war  maun  be  sei*ved.  Though  the 
blood  of  the  Ministeris  be  spylt,  it  is  the  Quenis  servand  that 
did  it.  Althought  Messes  be  multipleyed  in  all  quarteris  of 
the  Realme,  who  can  stop  the  Quenis  subjectis  to  lyve  of  the 
Quenis  religioun.  Althought  innocent  men  be  empreasoned, 
it  is  the  Quenis  pleasur :  sche  is  offended  at  such  men.  Al- 
thought under  pretence  of  justice  innocentis  be  crewellie  mur- 
thered  ;  the  Lordis  shall  weape,  but  the  Quenis  mynd  must 
be  satisfeid.  Nobillis  of  the  Realme,  Baronis  and  Counsal- 
louris  ar  banished,  thair  eschaittis  disponed,  and  thair  lyves 
maist  injustlie  persewed.  The  Quenc  hes  lost  hir  trusty  ser- 
vand Davy :  he  was  dear  unto  hir ;  and  thairfoir,  for  hir 
honouris  sake,  sche  maun  schaw  rigour  to  revenge  his  death. 


untis,  be  nott  to  prefer  fleschc  and  blood  to  God,  to  his  treutli 
to  justice,  to  religioun,  and  unto  the  libertie  of  this  oj^pressed 


15(51.  TTTE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  207 

And  yit  farther,  albeit  that  some  know  that  sche  lies  plainlie 
purposed  to  vvrak  the  religioun  within  this  Realme ;  that  to 
that  Romane  Antichrist  sche  hath  maid  liir  promeise  ;  and 
that  from  him  sche  hath  tackin  money  to  uphold  his  pompe 
within  this  Realme ;  yit  will  thai  lett  the  people  understand, 
that  the  Queue  will  establisse  religioun,  and  provide  all  thingis 
ordourlie,  yf  sclio  war  ancs  delivered. 

Yf  such  dealino-s,  which  ar  commoun  amansris  our  Protest-  '^"^^  ^^9 

■^     '  '^  WRITTEN 

WHEN  THE 
SECOUND 
RANK  OF 
THE  LORDIS 

Realme,  let  the  warld  judge.     The  plagues  have  bein,  and  in  bYnisshed.i 
some  part  ar  present,    that   war   befoir   threatned ;    the    rest 
ayproaches :     And   yitt  who    from    the  heart    cryis,   "  I    have 
offended ;  the  Lord  knows  :    in  Thee  onlie  is  the  trust  of  the 
oppressed  ;  for  vaine  is  the  help  of  man."     But  now  return  we 

to  our  HiSTORIE. 

The  nyntene  day  2  of  August,  the  year  of  God  J™  V  thre- 
scoir  ane  yearis,  betwix  sevin  and  aught  houris  befoir  noon, 
arryved  Marie  Quene  of  Scotland,  then  widow,  with  two 
galayis  furth  of  France.-^  In^  hir  cumpany,  (besydis  liir  gentil- 
wemen,  called  the  Maries,)-^  war  hir  thre  uncles,   the   Duck 

»  The  Glasgow  MS.  of  Book  Fourth,  *  In  MSS.  M,  and  L  4,  instead  of  the 

as  stated  in  the  preface,  vol.  i.  p.  xxxiii.  next  five  lines,  there  is  substituted  this 

formed   originally  a   separate  volume,  sentence,  which  is  also  copied  by  Cal- 

and  was  written  apparently  some  years  dei'wood,  (vol.  ii.  p.  142,)  "  Shoe  brought 

earlier  than  the  first  three  Books.     It  withher  alsfaire  Jewells,  pretious  stones 

contains  marginal  notes,  so  nearly  ver-  and    pearles   as   wer    to   be  found   in 

batim  with  the  MS.  156G,  as  to  leave  Em-ope.     Her  tapestrie,  and  other  stuff" 

little  doubt  of  its  having  been  copied  wer  brought  to  Leith,  in  October.     The 

from  it,  probably  about  the  year  1580.  verie  face,"  &c. 

But  to  the  above  marginal  note,  after  ^  Celebrated  in  Scotish  Song:  see  "The 

"  banisshed,"  there  is  added  :  "  Anno  Queen's  Marie,"  in  Sir  W.  Scott's  Border 

1566,  after  Davie's  slauchter."  Minstrelsy.  One  of  the  verses  in  this  bal- 

2  In  MSS.  A,  M,  and  L  4,  "  Tlic  lad  of  Mary  Hamilton,  thus  names  them : 
twentie  day." 


The  Queen  arrived  in  Leith  harbour 


Yestreen  the  Queen  had  four  JIaries, 
The  night  she'll  hae  but  three  ; 


on  Tuesday  the  19th  August  1501,  and  ^here  was  Marie  Seaton,  and  Marie  Beaton, 

landed  on  the  following  day.  And  Marie  Cai-michael,  and  me. 


2C8 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


D'Omall,*^  the  Grrand  Priour,"  and  the  Marques  D'Elbuf.^ 
Thare  accumpanyed  hir  also,^  D'Anweill,  son  to  the  Constable 
of  France,  with  other  gentihnen  of  inferiour  conditioun,  be- 
sydis  servandis  and  officiaris.i'^     The  verray  face  of  heavin,  the 


Bishop  Lesley  iu  describing  the  persons 
who  accompanied  the  young  Princess 
in  her  voyage  to  France  in  1548,  (see 
vol.  i.  p.  219,)  says,  "  Of  the  quhilkis 
thair  was  four  in  speciall,  of  whome 
everie  one  of  thame  buir  the  samin  name 
of  Marie,  being  of  four  syndre  honour- 
able houses,  to  wyt,  Flemyng,  Leving- 
stoun,  Setoun,  and  Beatoun  of  Creich ; 
quho  remanit  all  foure  with  the  Quene 
in  France,  during  her  residens  thair, 
and  returned  agane  in  Scotland  with 
her  Majestie,  in  the  yeir  of  oui-  Lorde 
J-"  V=  Ixj  yeiris."  (History,  p.  209.) 
And  in  his  account  of  the  Queen's  ar- 
rival in  Scotland  in  1561,  he  repeats 
that  she  was  attended  "  with  many  la- 
dies and  gentillwemen,  speciallie  the 
four  maidis  of  honour  quha  passit  with 
hir  Hienes  in  France,  of  hir  awin  aige, 
the  name  everie  ane  of  Marie,  as  is  be- 
fore mentioned."  (lb.  p.  297.)  Buchanan, 
in  his  verses.  The  Pomp  of  the  Gods  at 
the  Marriage  of  Queen  Mary,  29th 
July  1565,  speaks  of  her  five  Maries. 
When  she  arrived  in  this  country  she 
was  still  in  her  first  dule  or  mourn- 
ing dress.  But  on  the  11th  November 
some  change  was  made  in  the  dresses  of 
her  pages  and  maidens  ;  and  one  of  the 
entries  in  the  Treasurer's  Accounts  on 
that  day,  is  as  follows  : — "  Item,  be  the 
Quenis  Grace  precept,  to  Jacques  de 
Soulis,  talliour  to  hir  Grace,  to  gif  the 

Madynnis  efter  following,  viz.  to 

Flemyng,  Betoun,  Sunpar- 

tew,   Levingstoun,  Seitoun, 

■  Wardlaw,    to    by   thair    secund 

dule,  ilk  ane  of  the  said  five,  ix  lib.,  and 
to  the  said  Wardlaw,  x  lib.  vij  s. — 
Summa,  £55,  7s."  There  was  also  fur- 
nished black  stannyng  for  clokis,  and 


black  velvet  to  14  dames,  damosels,  and 
maidens,  "  to  be  thair  secund  dule;"  to 
the  extent  of  £144,  18s.,  and  £112,  16s. 
3d.  Also,  on  the  18th,  £4,  10s.  for 
gray  mantill  claith,  to  be  a  gown,  lined 
with  green,  for  hir  Grace's  Fule ;  and 
on  the  28th,  £23,  for  "  quhite  tafiteis 
of  the  cord,"  and  "  red  tafiteis  of  the 
foure  threidis,"  to  the  Lady  Seitoun. 

^  Claude  de  Lorraine,  Duke  d'Aumale, 
third  son  of  Claude  Duke  de  Guise,  was 
born  in  1526.  He  was  in  the  army, 
and  gave  proofs  of  his  courage.  He  was 
killed  at  the  siege  of  Eochelle,  by  a 
cannon  ball,  14th  March  1573. 

'  Francis  de  Lorraine,  seventh  son  of 
Claude  Duke  de  Guise,  was  a  Knight  of 
Malta,  Grand  Prior,  and  General  of  the 
French  galleys  or  war  vessels.  He  dis- 
tinguished himself  in  the  wars  with  the 
Turks  in  1557;  and  died  from  the  ef- 
fects of  his  exertions  at  the  battle  of 
Dreux,  6th  March  1563,  aged  29. 

^  Rene  de  Lorraine,  Marquis  d'Elbeuf, 
was  the  youngest  son  of  Claude  Duke 
de  Guise,  and  was  born  in  1536.  He 
became  successor  to  his  brother  Fran- 
cis in  1563,  as  General  of  the  French 
galleys;  but  he  died  in  1566,  aged  30. 

^  Henry  second  son  of  Anne  Duke  de 
Montmorency,  and  Constable  of  France, 
is  known  in  history  as  the  Seigneui*  de 
Damville.  He  was  born  in  1534,  and 
upon  the  death  of  his  elder  brother  in 
1579,  lie  succeeded  to  the  Dukedom, 
and  survived  till  1614.  (Anselme,  His- 
toire  Genealogique,  vol.  iii.  p.  605.) 

'"  In  the  Queen's  retinue,  among  other 
persons  of  note,  was  Peter  de  Bourdeille, 
known  by  the  name  of  the  Sieur  de 
Brantome,  of  which  he  was  Abbot.  He 
was  attached  to  the  Court  as  one  of  the 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  269 

time  of  liir  arryvall,  did  manifestlie  speak  what  confort  was  thequems 

""  ^  LAST  AHIU- 

brouo-lit  unto  this   cuntrey   with   hir,    to    wit,   sorow,    dolour,  val  in 

°  ....  SCOTLAND.' 

darknes,  and  all  impietie ;  for  in  the  memorie  of  man,  that 
day  of  the  year,  was  never  seyn  a  more  dolorous  face  of  the 
heavin,  then  was  at  hir  arryvall,  which  two  days  after  did  so 
contineu  ;  for  besides  the  surfett  weat,^  and  corruptioun  of 
the  air,  the  myst  was  so  thick  and  so  dark,  that  skairse  mycht 
any  man  espy  ane  other  the  lenth  of  two  pair  of  buttis.  The 
sun  was  not  seyn  to  schyne  two  dayis  befoir,  nor  two  dayis 
after.  That  foir-warning  gave  God  unto  us ;  but  allace,  the 
most  pairt  war  blynd. 

At  the  sound  of  the  cannonis  whiche  the  galayis  schot,  the 
multitude  being  advertissed,  liappie  was  he  and  sche  that  first 
myght  have  the  presence  of  the  Queue.  The  Protestantis 
war  not  the  slowest,  and  thairintill  thai  war  not  to  be  blamed.^ 
Becaus  the  Palace  of  Halyrudhous  was  not  throughlie  put  in 
ordour,  (for  hir  cuming  was  more  suddane^  than  many  looked 
for,)  sche  remaned  in  Lcytli  till  towardis  the  evenyng,  and 
then  repaired  thitther.     In  the  way  betwixt  Leith   and   the '^ "^  ^^^^^'^ 

-I  "^  FIRST  GRACI 

Abbay,  met  hir  the  rebellis  of  the  craftis,  (of  whom  we  spak  o^  ^^^1^!^'' 
befoir,5)  to  wit,  those  that  had  violated  the  authoritie  of  the  '''°"''- 

gentlemen  of  the  bed-cLamber  to  Charles  ablie  receaved  be  the  Erie  of  Argjlc, 
IX.,  and  Henry  III.  of  France.  He  the  Lord  Areskin,  Lord  James,  and  other 
owes  his  distinction  to  his  posthumous  Noblemen,  ai.d  the  Citizens  of  Edin- 
Memoirs,  which  serve  at  least  suffi-  burgh.  Becaus,"  &c. 
ciently  to  illustrate  the  licentious  and  *  The  Queen's  arrival  was  earlier 
corrupt  state  of  manners  of  the  time.  than  was  expected.  On  the  7th  of 
In  his  Vies  dcs  Dames  Ilhiftres,  there  is  August,  the  Treasurer  had  paid  mes- 
a  Dkcours  on  Mai-y  Queen  of  Scots,  sengers  passing  "  with  clois  writings" 
who,  he  says,  on  the  day  of  her  nuptials  of  the  Lords  of  Secret  Counsall  to  the 
with  Francis,  "  paroistre  cent  fois  plus  Nobility  and  Magistratis,  and  others, 
belle  qu'une  Deesse  du  Ciel."  He  died  "  to  be  in  Edinburgh  with  thair  honor- 
in  July  1614,  at  the  age  of  87.  able   cumpaneis   to   the   Quenis  grace 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  The  Quenis  arryval  from  enteres  furth  of  France,  ayane  the  last 
France."  day  of  Auijust."      It  has  been    seen 

2  In  MS.  G,  '=  surfece  weitt."     MS.  L  that  she  landed   on   the  20th   of  that 
4,  follows  that  of  1566,  in  "  surfett."  month." 

'  Instead  of  this  sentence,  in  MSS.  J\[.  -'  See  pages  155-150. 

and  L  4,  we  find,  "  Shee  wcs  honnor- 


TIIK  QUENI 

FIRST 

JlEriSE. 


270  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

Magistratis,  and  had  besieged  the  Provost.  But,  because  sche 
was  sufficientlie  instructed,  that  all  tliai  did  was  done  in 
disjiite  of  the  religioun,  thai  war  easilie  apardoned.  Fyres  of 
joy  war  sett  furtli  all  nyght,  and  a  cumpany  of  the  most 
honest,!  with  instrumentis  of  musick,  and  with  musitians, 
geve  thair  salutationis  at  hir  chalracr  wyndo.2  The  melody, 
(as  sche  alledged,)  lyked  hir  weill ;  and  sche  willed  the  same 
to  be  contineued  some  nightis  after. 

With  great  diligence  ^  the  Lordis  repared  unto  hir  from  all 
quarters.  And  so  was  nothing  understand^  but  jnyrth  and 
quyetness  till  the  nixt  Sunday,  which  was  the  xxiiij  of  August, 
Avhen  preparatioun  began  to  be  maid  for  that  idoll  the  Messe  to 
be  said  in  the  Chapell ;  which  jjerced  the  hartis  of  all.  The 
godlie^  began  to  bolden  ;  and  men  began  openlie  to  speak, 
"  Shall  that  idoll  be  suffered  agane  to  tack  place  within  this 
Realm  ?  It  shall  not."  The  Lord  Lyndesay,  (then  but  Mais- 
ter,)6  with  the  gentilmen  of  Fyiff,  and  otheris,  plainlie  cryed  in 
the  close,  "  The  idolater  Preast  should  dye  the  death,"  ac- 
cording to  Goddis  law.  One  that  caryed  in  the  candell  was 
evill  effrayed  ;  but  then  began  flesche  and  blood  to  schaw  the 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  of  most  honest  men."  chantez  et  si  raal  accordez,  que  rien  plus. 
MSS.  A,  and  L  4,  "  the  most  honest."  He !  (juelle  musique !  et  quel  repos  pour 

2  Brantome  in  his   account   of  the       sa  nuit !" 

Queen's  arrival,  takes   notice   of   the  ^  In  MS.  G,  these  words  are  added  to 

thick  fog  (grand  broiiillard)  which  pre-  the  previous  sentence.     MS.  L  4,  fol- 

vailed,  so  that  they  could  not  see  from  lows  that  of  1.566. 

one  end  of  the  vessel  to  the  other.     His  *  In  MS.  G,  "  understude." 

account  of  the  serenading  of  the  pious  *  In  MS.  G,  "  which  perceaved,  the 

minstrels,   is   very  unlike  that  of  the  hearts  of  all  the  godlie."     In  MS.  M, 

text.     His  words  are, — "  Le  soir,  ainsi  "  The  hearts  of  the  godly  being  pierced 

qu'elle  se  vouloit  coucher,  estant  lo-  with  that  grosse  abhomination,  began 

g6e  en-bas  en  I'Abbaye  de  I'lslebourg,  to   bowden   and  swell."     In  MS.  L  4, 

qui    est    certes    un    beau    bastiment,  "  pierced  all  the  heartis  of  the  godlie, 

et  ue  tient  rien  du  Pays,  vindrent  sous  tliat  they  began  to  bowden  and  swell." 

la  fenestre  cinq  ou  six  cent  marauds  ''  Patrick,  eldest  son  of  Lord  Linde- 

de  la  ville,  luy  donner  aubade  de  mes-  say,  was  styled   Master  of  Lindesay, 

cliants  violons  et   petits   rebecs,    dont  during  his   father's   life.     As   already 

il  n'y  en  a  faute  en  ce  pays-la ;    et  se  noticed,  he   succeeded  to  the  title  in 


mil' 


irent  a  chanter  Pseaumcs,  tant  mal       1563. 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  271 

self.     Tliair  durst  no  Papist,  neatliir  yitt  any  that  cam  out  of  [-^'j'^^  jj,^^^^";^ 
France  whisper.      But  the  Lord  James  l  (tlie   man  whom  all 
the  godlye  did  most  reverence)  took  upoun  him  to  keap  the 
Chapell  door.     His  best  excuse  was,   that  he  wald   stop   all 
Scotishe  men  to  enter  in  to  the  Messe.     But  it  was,   and  is 
sufficientlie  known,  that  the  door  was  keapt,  that  nane  should 
have  entress  to  truble  the  Preast ;  who,  after  the  Messe,  was  com- 
mitted to  the  protectioun  of  Lord  Johne  of  Coldinghame,^  and  ^°^Jof  the 
Lord  Robert  of  Halyrudehouse,^  who  then  war  boytli  Protes-  ^'^^-^'^^• 
tantis,  and  had  communicat  at  the  Table  of  the  Lord.     Betwix 
thame  two  was  the  Preast  convoyed  to  his  chalmer. 

And  so  the  godlie  departed  with  great  greaf  of  heart,  and 
at  after  noon  repaired  to  the  Abbay  in  great  companeis,  and 
gave  plane  significatioun,  that  thai  could  not  abyd  that  the 
land  which  God  by  his  power  had  purged  from  idolatrie, 
should  in  thair  eyes  be  polluted  agane.  Which  understand, 
thair  began  complaint  upoun  complaint.  The  old  dounty- 
bowris,  and  otheris  that  long  had  served  in  the  Court,  and  hes 
no  remissioun  of  synnes,  but  by  virtew  of  the  Messe,  ciyed, 
"  Thai  wald  to  France  without  delay :  thai  could  not  live 
without  the  Messe."  The  same  affirmed  the  Quenis  Uncles. 
And  wold  to  God  that  that  menzie,  togitther  with  the  Messe, 
had  tacken  g'ood  nyght  at   this  Realme  for  ever ;  for  so  had  the  end  is 

O  ./  O  J  NOTT  YITT 

Scotland  bene  rydd  of  ane  unprofitable  burthen  of  devouring  ^eane. 
strangearis,  and  of  the  maledictioun  of  God  that  lies  stricken, 
and  yitt  will  strike  for  idolatrie. 

The  Counsall  assembled,  disputatioun  was  had  of  the  nixt 
rcmeadye.     Polytick  headis   war  send  unto   the    Gentilmen, 

'  Lord  James  Stewart,  Prior  of  St.  ^  Lord  Robert  Stewart,  also  a  natm-al 

Andrews.  son  of  King  .James  the  Fiftb,  by  Eupbe- 

^  Lord  Jolin  Stewart,  a  natural  son  mia  Elpbinstone,  dangbter  of  Lord  El- 

of  James  tbe  Fifth,  bad  the  Priory  of  phinstone.     He  bad  a  gi-ant  of  the  Ab- 

Coldingham  conferred   on  him   in  his  bacy  of  Holyrood  in  1539,  when  only 

youth,     lie  has  previously  been  men-  seven  years  of  age.     See  vol.  i.  p.  45b, 

tioned    {i'!ij>r(i,    page    88)    as    having  and  a  subsequent  note  in  the  presen* 

joined  the  Reformers.  volume. 


272 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


THE  PER- 
BUASIOUl 
OF  THE 
CfiTTR. 

TEOrRIS. 


with  these  and  the  lyke  persuasionis,  "  Why,  allace,  will  ye 
chase  our  Soverane  from  us  ?  Sche  will  incontinent  return  to 
hir  galayes  ;  and  what  then  shall  all  Realraes  say  of  us  ?  May 
we  nott  suffer  hir  a  lytill  whill  ?  We  doubt  not  but  sche  shall 
leave  it.  Yf  we  war  not  assured  that  sche  mj^ght  be  wonne, 
we  should  be  als  greate  ennemyes  to  hir  Masse,  as  ye  should 
be.  Hir  Uncles  will  depart,  and  then  sail  we  reull  all  at  our 
plesour.  Wold  not  we  be  as  sorry  to  hurt  the  Religioun  as  any 
of  you  wald  be  V 

With  these  and  the  lyke  persuasionis,  (we  say,)  was  the 
fervencie  of  the  Bretheren  quenched ;  and  ane  Act  l  was 
framed :  the  tennour  whairof  followeth : — 


Apud  Edinburgh,  xxv*°  Augusti  Anno  &c.  lxi°. 

FoRSAMEKLE  as  the  Quenis  Majestic  lies  understand  the 
great  inconvenientis  that  may  come,  through  the  divisioun 
presentlie  standing  in  this  Realme,  for  the  difference  in  materis 
of  Religioun,  that  hir  Majestic  is  most  desirous  to  see  [it]  pacifeit 
be  ane  good  ordour,  to  the  honour  of  God,  and  tranquillitie  of 
hir  Realme,  and  meanes  to  tack  the  same  be  advyse  of  hir 
Estaitis,  sa  soon  as  convenientlie  may  be  ;  and  that  hir  Majes- 
ties godlie  resolutioun  thairin  may  be  greatlie  hyndered,  in 
case  any  tumult  or  seditioun  be  raised  amanges  the  lieges,  yf 
any  suddane^  alteratioun  or  novatioun  be  preassed  [at]  or  at- 
tempted, befoir  that  the  ordour  may  be  establissed :  Thairfoir, 
for  eschewing  of  the  saidis  inconvenientis,  hir  Majestie  ordanes 
letteris^  to  be  direct  to  charge  all  and  sindrie  hir  leiges,  be 
oppin  proclamatioun  at  the  Mercat  Croce  of  Edinburgh,  and 
otheris  places  neidfull,  that  thai,  and  everie  ane  of  thame, 
conteane  thame  sclfhs  in  quyctnesse,  keap  peace  and  civile 


1  This  Act  is  not  contained  in  the 
existing  volumes  of  the  Privy  Council 
Records.— In  MS.  M,  the  Act  itself  is 
omitted,  but  its  purport  is  briefly 
stated. 


-  MS.  G,  omits  "  suddane." 
^  It  appears  that  such  Letters  of  Pro- 
clamation were  accordingly  issued  on 
the  29th  of  August.    (Treasurer's  Ac- 
counts.) 


15G1.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  273 

societie  among-is  tliame  selffis :  And  in  the  meanetyme,  while 
the  Estaittis  of  this  Realme  may  be  assembled,  and  that  hir 
Majestie  have  tackin  ane  finall  ordour  be  thair  advyse  and 
publict  consent,  quhilk  hir  Majestie  hopes  shalbe  to  the  con- 
tentment of  the  haill,  That  nane  of  thame  tack  upoun  hand, 
privatlie  or  openlio,  to  mack  alteratioun  or  innovatioun  of  the 
staite  of  Religioun,  or  attempt  any  thing  against  the  form 
quhilk  hir  Majestie  fand  publictlie  and  universallie  standing 
at  hir  Majesties  arryvell  in  this  hir  Realme,  under  the  pane  of 
death :  With  ccrtificatioun,  that  yf  any  subject  of  the  Realme, 
shall  cum  in  the  contrarie  heirof,  he  shalbe  estemed  and  hol- 
den  a  seditious  persone  and  raiser  of  tumult,  and  the  said  paine 
salbe  execut  upoun  him  with  all  rigour,  to  the  example  of 
otheris.  Attour,  hir  Majestie,  be  the  advise  of  the  Lordis  of 
hir  Secreit  Counsall,  commandis  and  charges  all  hir  leiges, 
that  nane  of  thame  tack  ujioun  hand  to  inolest  or  truble  any  of 
hir  domesticall  servandis,  or  personis  whatsumever,  come  furth 
of  France,  in  hir  Gracis  cumpany  at  this  tyme,  in  wourd,  deed, 
or  countenance,  for  any  caus  whatsumever,  eather  within 
hir  Palace  or  without,  or  mack  ony  derisiouni  or  invasioun 
upoun  any  of  thame,  under  whatsumever  cullour  or  pretence, 
under  the  said  paine  of  death:  Albeit  hir  Majestie  be  sufficient- 
lie  jiersuaded,  that  hir  good  and  loving  subjectis  wold  do  the 
same,  for  the  reverence  thai  bear  to  hir  persone  and  authoritie, 
notwithstanding  that  na  sick  commandiment  war  publisshed. 

This  Act  and  Proclamatioun,  penned  and  put  in  form  by 
such  as  befoir  professed  Christ  Jesus,  (for  in  the  Counsall  then 
had  Papistis  neathir  power  nor  vote,)  it  was  publictlie  pro- 
claimed at  the  Mercat  Croce  of  Edinburgh,  upoun  Mononday 
foirsaid.  No  man  reclamed,  nor  maid  repugnance  to  it,  except 
the   Erie   of  Arrane  onlie  ;^   who,  in  open   audience  of  the 

^  In  MS.  G,  "  divisioun."  "  The    Erie  of   Ai-ran's    protestation 

*  MS.  L  4,  has  this  marginal  note,       against  this  proclamation." 
VOL.  IT.  S 


274  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

Heraldis  and  people  protested,  "  That  lie  dissasented  that  auy 
protectioun  or  defence  should  be  maid  to  the  Quenis  domes- 
tickis,  or  to  any  that  came  from  France,  to  oiFend  Goddis 
Majestie,  and  to  violat  the  lawis  of  the  Realme,  more  then  to 
any  other  subject:  for  Goddis  law  had  pronunced  death  against 
the  idolater,  and  the  lawis  of  the  realme  had  appoynted  pu- 
nishment for  sayaris  and  heararis  of  Masse ;  quhilkis,  (said 
he,)  I  here  protest,  be  universallie  observed,  and  that  none 
be  exempted,  unto  such  tyme  as  a  law,  als  publictlie  maid, 
and  als  consonant  to  the  law  of  God,  have  disannulled  the 
formar."  And  thairupoun  he  took  documentis,  as  the  tenour 
of  this  his  Protestatioun  doeth  witnesse  : — 

In  sa  far  as  be  this  Proclamatioun  it  is  understand  to  the 
Kirk  of  God,  and  memberis  thairof,  that  the  Quenis  Grace  is 
mynded,  that  the  treu  religioun  and  wyrschi]3ping  ellis  estab- 
lissed  procead  fordwart,  that  it  may  daly  increase,  unto  the 
Parliament,  that  ordour  then  may  be  tane  for  extirpatioun  of 
all  idolatrie  within  this  Realme :  We  rander  maist  hartlie 
thankis  to  the  Lord  our  God  for  liir  Gracis  good  mynd,  ear- 
nestlie  praying  that  it  may  be  encreassed  in  hir  Hienes,  to  the 
honour  and  glorie  of  His  name,  and  weill  of  his  Kirk  within 
this  Realme.  And  as  tueching  the  molestatioun  of  hir  Hienes 
servandis,  we  suppose  that  nane  dare  be  sa  bald  as  anes  to 
move  thair  fyngar  at  thame,  in  doing  of  thair  lefull  busines  ; 
and  as  for  us,  we  have  learned  at  oure  maister  Christis  school, 
"  to  keap  peace  with  all  men  ■"  and  thairfoir  for  our  part,  we 
will  promeis  that  obedience  unto  hir  Majestie  (as  is  our  dewitie) 
that  nane  of  hir  servandis  salbe  molested,  trubled,  or  anes 
tueched,  be  the  Kirk,  or  any  member  thairof,  in  doing  thair 
lefull  affairis.  But,  sen  that  God  hes  said,  "  The  idolater  shall 
die  the  death  ;"  we  Protest  solempnedlie,  in  presence  of  God, 
and  in  the  earis  of  the  haill  people  that  hearis  this  Proclama- 
tioun, and  special  ie  in  presence  of  you  Lyoun  Herald,  and  of 


1501.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  275 

the  rest  of  your  collegues,  &c.,  niakaris  of  tliis  Proclamatioiin, 
that  yf  any  of  hir  servandis  sliall  commit  idolatrie,  specialie 
say  Messe,  participat  thairwitli,  or  tack  tlic  defence  tliairof, 
(quhilkis  Ave  war  leytli  should  be  in  hir  Grace  cumpany,)  in 
tliat  caise,  that  this  Proclamatioun  be  nott  extended  to  thame 
in  that  behalf,  nor  be  not  a  salfgard  or  gyrth  to  thame  in  that 
behalf,  na  mair  nor  give  thai  committ  slauchter  or  murther, 
seing-  the  ane  is  mekle  mair  abhominable  and  odiouse  in  the 
syght  of  God,  then  is  the  other :  But  that  it  maj'-  be  laught- 
fuU  to  inflict  upoun  thame  the  painis  conteyned  in  Goddis 
word  aganis  idolateris,  whairever  thai  may  be  apprehended, 
but  favour.  And  this  oure  Protestatioun  we  desyre  you  to 
notifie  unto  hir,  and  gif  hir  the  copie  heirof,  least  hir  Hienes 
should  suspect  ane  uproar,  gif  we  should  all  come  and  pre- 
sent the  same.     At  Edinburgh,  the  day  and  year  foirsaid. 

This  baldnes  did  somewhat  exasperat  the  Queue,  and  such 
as  favoured  hir  in  that  poynt.  As  the  Lordis,  callit^  of  the 
Congregatioun,  repared  unto  the  Town,  at  the  first  cuming 
thai  schew  thame  selves  wonderouslie  offended,  that  the  Messe 
was  pemiitted ;  so  that  everie  man  as  he  cam  accused  thame 
that  Avar  befoir  him  :  but  after  that  thai  had  remaned  a  certane 
space,  thai  Avar  as  quyet  as  war  the  formare.  Wliich  thino- 
perceaved,  a  zealous  and  godlie  man,  Robert  Campbell  of  King-  kobf.et 
zeancleucht,  said  unto  the  Lord  Vchiltrie,  "  My  Lord,  noAv  ye 
are  come,  and  almost  the  last  of  all  the  rest ;  and  I  perceave, 
by  your  anger,  that  the  fyre-edge  is  nott  of  you  yit  ;  but  I 
fear,  that  after  that  the  holy  Avatter  of  the  Courte  be  sprinckled 
upoun  you,  that  ye  sail  become  als  temperat^  as  the  rest :  For 
I  have  bene  here  noAV  fyve  dayis,  and  at  the  first  I  hard  everie 
man  say,  '  Let  us  hang  the  Preast ;'  but  after  that  thai  had  bene 
tA\-yse  or  thrise  in  the  Abbay,  all  that  fervency  Avas  jjast.     I 

1  In  MSS.  G,  A,  and  L  4,  "  then  call-       "  The  fervencie  of  professoi's  cooled." 
eil."     The  latterhasthis  marginal  note,  '  In  MS.  G,  "  als  temperat  here." 


TOTHF.  L01!l> 
VCHILTKIE. 


276 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


THE  QtTENIS 
PRACTISES 
AT   IHE 
FIRST. 


THE  JUDG- 
MENT OF 
JOHNEKNOX 
tJPOlIN  THE 
SUFFERING 
OF  THK 
QUENIS 
MESSE.l 


think  tliair  be  some  incliantmeiit  wliareby  men  ar  bewitched." 
And  in  verray  deed  so  it  came  to  pass :  for  the  Quenis  flatter- 
ing wordis,  upoun  the  ane  pairte,  ever  still  crying,  "  Conscience, 
conscience :  it  is  a  sore  thing  to  constreane  the  conscience  ;" 
and  the  subtile  persuasionis  of  hir  suppostis  (we  mean  evin  of 
such  as  sometymes  war  judged  most  fervent  with  us)  upoun 
the  other  parte,  blynded  all  men,  and  putt  thame  in  this  opi- 
nioun,  sche  wilbe  content  to  hear  the  preaching ;  and  so  no 
doubt  but  sche  may  be  wone.  And  thus  of  all  it  wes  con- 
cluded, to  suffer  hir  for  a  tyme. 

The  nixt  Sounday,  Johnne  Knox,  inveighing  against  idolatrie, 
schew  what  terrible  plagues  God  had  tacken  upoun  Realmes 
and  Nationis  for  the  same  ;  and  added,  "  That  one  Messe  (thair 
war  no  mo  suifered  at  the  first)  was  more  fearful  to  him  then 
gif  ten  thousand  armed  enemyes  war  landed  in  any  pairte  of 
the  Realme,  of  purpose  to  suppress  the  lioill  religioun.  For 
(said  he)  in  our  God  thair  is  strenth  to  resist  and  confound 
multitudis,  yf  we  unfeanedlie  depend  upoun  him ;  whairof 
heirtofoir  we  liaif  had  experience  ;  but  when  we  joyne  liandis 
with  idolatrie,  it  is  no  doubt  but  that  both  Godis  amicable 
presence  and  confortable  defence  leaveth  us,  and  what  shall 
then  become  of  us  ?  Allace,  I  fear  that  experience  shall  teach 
us,  to  the  greaf  of  many."  At  these  wordis,  the  guydaris  of 
of  the  Court  mocked,  and  plainlie  spak,  "  That  such  fear  was 
no  poynt  of  thair  fayth :  it  was  besyd  his  text,  and  was  a 
verray  untymelie  admonitioun."  But  we  heard  this  same 
Johnne  Knox,  in  the  audience  of  the  same  men,  recyte  the 
same  wordis  agane  in  the  myddest  of  trubles ;  and  in  the 
audience  of  many  ask  God  mercy,  that  he  was  nott  more 
vehement  and  upryght  in  the  suppressing  of  that  idoll  in  the 
begynning.  "  For,  (said  he,)  albeit  that  I  spack  that  which 
offended  some,  (which  this  day  thai  sec  and  feall  to  be  treu,)  yit 


1  MS.  L  4,  instead  of  this  marginal      the  toleration  of  the  Quenis  Messe. 
note,  has  "  Mr.  Knox  findeth  fault  with 


15(31.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  277 

did  I  not  [tliat]  wliicli  I  myglit  have  done  ;  for  God  liad  not  onlic 

gcvin  unto  me  knowledge,  and  toung-  to  maik  the   imj^ietie  of 

that  idoll  knovvin  unto  this  Reahnc,  but  he  had  gevin  unto 

me  credj^te  with  many,  who  wokl  have  put  in  executioun  God- 

dis  judgmentis,  yf  I  wold  onlie  have  consented  thairto  :    But  so  confes^''*'^ 

caii-full  was  1 1  of  that  commoun  tranquillitie,  and  so  loth  was  ^^""^• 

I  to  have  offended  those  of  whom  I  had  conceaved  a  good  opi- 

nioun,   that  in  secreat  conference  with  earnest   and   zealous 

men,  I  travaled  rather  to  mitigat,  yea,  to  slokin,  that  fervencye 

that  God  had  kyndled  in  otheris,  than  to  animat  or  encorage 

thame  to  put  thair  handis  to  the  Lordis  work :    Whairintill  I 

unfeanedlie  acknowledge  my  selff  to  have  done  most  wickedlie  ; 

and  from  the  bottom  of  my  hart,  askis  of  my  God  grace  and 

pardon,  for  that  I  did  not  what  in  me  lay  to  have  sujjpressed 

that  idoll  in  the  begining."     These  and  other  wordis  did  many 

hear  him  speak  in  publict  place,  in  the  monetli  of  December, 

the  year  of  God  J^  V*^  and  threscoir  fyve  yearis,  when  such  as 

at  the  Quenis  arryvell  onlie  manteyned  the  Masse,  war  exyled 

the  Realme,  summoned  upoun  trcassone,  and  decreit  of  for- 

faltour  intended  against  thame.     But  to  return  from  whence 

we  have  digressed. 

Whetther  it  was  by  counsall  of  otheris,  or  of  the  Quenis 
awin  desyre,  we  knaw  not  ;  but  the  Queue  spack  with  Johne 
Knox,  and  had  long  ressoning  with  him,  none  being  present 
except  the  Lord  James :  (two  gentil women  stood  2  in  the  other 
end  of  the  house.)     The  summe  of  thair  reassoning  was  this.  rJLso^-^ 
The  Queue  accused  him,  that  he  had  raysed  a  part  of  hir  sub-  the  quiv^'tf 
jectis  against  hir  Mother,  and  against  hir  self:    That  he  had  knox.°"^^ 
writtin  a  book  against  hir  just   authoritie,    (sche  ment  the 
treatise  against  the  Regiment  of  Women  ^)  which  sche  had, 
and  should  cans  the  most  learned  in  Euroi^e  to  wryte  against 
it :  That  he  was  the  caus  of  great  seditioun  and  great  slauchter 

1  MS.  G,  adds  here,  "  quoth  he."  ^  See  this  vol.  i.  page  28. 

2  lu  MSS.  G,  and  L  4, "  two  gentilmeii." 


278  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

in  England ;  and  that  it  was  said  to  hir,  that  all  which  he  did 
was  by  necromancye,  &c. 

To  the  wliiche  the  said  Johne  answered,  "  Madam,  it  may 
please  your  Majestie  patientlie  to  hear  my  sempill  ansures. 
And  first,  (said  he,)  yf  to  teach  the  treuth  of  God  in  synceritie, 
yf  to  reljuke  idolatrie,  and  to  will  a  people  to  wyrschip  God 
according  to  his  Avord,  be  to  raise  subjectis  against  thair 
Princes,  then  can  not  I  be  excused  ;  for  it  hes  pleased  God  of 
his  mercy  to  mack  me  ane  (amongis  many)  to  disclose  unto 
this  Realme  the  vanitie  of  the  Papisticall  religioun,  and  the 
deceat,  pryde,  and  tyranny  of  that  Romane  Antichrist.  Bot, 
Madam,  yf  the  treu  knowledge  of  God,  and  his  rycht  wirschip- 
ping  be  the  clieaf  causses,  that  must  move  men  from  thair 
heart  to  obey  thair  just  Princes,  (as  it  is  most  certane  that  thai 
ar,)  whairin  can  I  be  reprehended  ?  I  think,  and  am  surelie 
persuaded,  that  your  Grace  have  had,  and  presentlie  have,  als 
unfeaned  obedience,  of  such  as  profess  Jesus  Christ  within  this 
Realme,  as  ever  your  Father,  or  other  progenitouris  had  of 
those  that  war  called  Bischoppis.  And  tueching  that  booke, 
which  seameth  so  highlie  to  offend  your  Majestie,  it  is  most 
certane  that  I  wrait  it,  and  am  content  that  all  the  learned 
of  the  world  judge  of  it.  I  hear  that  ane  Englishe  man 
hath  writtin  against  it,i  but  I  have  not  redd  him.  Yf  he 
have  sufficientlie  improved  my  ressones,  and  establissed  his 
contrarie  jjropositioun,  with  als  evident  testimonyes  as  I  have 
done  myne,  I  shall  nott  be  obstinat,  but  shall  confess  my 
eiTour  and  ignorance.  Bot  to  this  hour  I  have  thocht,  and 
yit  thinkis  my  self  allone  to  be  more  able  to  sustene  the 
thingis  affimied  in  that  my  wark,  than  any  ten  in  Europe 
salbe  able  to  confute  it." 

"  Ye  think  then,  (quod  sche,)  that  I  have  no  just  autho- 
ritie  ?" 

"  Pleise  your  Majestie,  (said  he,)  that  learned  men  in  all  aigcs 

'  John  Aylmer  :  see  this  vol.  page  26,  note  o. 


1561.  THE   REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  279 

have  had  thair  judgmentis  free,  and  most  comnionlie  disagre- 
ing  frome  tlie  commoun  jvidgment  of  the  warld ;  suche  also 
have  thei  publisshed,  boyth  Avith  pen  and  toung,  and  yit  not- 
withstanding thei  tliame  selves  have  lived  in  the  commoun 
societie  with  otheris,  and  have  borne  patientlie  with  the 
errours  and  imperfectionis  whiche  thei  could  not  amend. 
Plato,  the  philosopher,  wrote  his  Bookis  of  the  Commoun- 
wealth,  in  the  whiche  he  dampneth  many  thingis  that  then 
war  manteaned  in  the  world,  and  required  many  thingis  to 
have  bene  reformed;  and  yitt,  notwithstanding  he  lived  evin 
under  suche  policies,  as  then  war  universallie  receaved,  without 
farther  trubling  of  any  estait.  Evin  so.  Madam,  am  I  content 
to  do,  in  uprightness  of  heart,  and  with  a  testimonye  of  a  good 
conscience.  I  have  communicat  my  judgment  to  the  world : 
Yf  the  Realme  fyndis  no  inconvenience  frome  the  regiment  of 
a  woman,  that  whiche  thei  approve  shall  I  not  farther  disallow, 
then  within  my  awin  breast,  but  salbe  also  weall  content  to 
lyve  under  your  Grace,  as  Paull  was  to  lyve  under  Nero  ;  and 
my  hope  is,  that  so  long  as  that  ye  defyle  not  your  handis 
with  the  blood  of  the  Sanctis  of  God,  that  neather  I  nor  that 
Booke  shall  eather  hurt  you  or  your  authoritie  :  for  in  verray 
deed,  Madame,  that  Book  was  written  most  especialie  against 
that  wicked  Jesabell  of  England."^ 

"  But  (said  sche)  ye  speak  of  women  in  generall.'' 
"  Most  treu  it  is,  Madame,  (said  the  other,)  and  yit  it  ap- 
peareth  to  me  that  wisdome  should  persuade  your  Grace,  never 
to  raise  truble  for  that,  whiche  to  this  day  hath  not  trubled 
your  Majestie,  neather  in  persone  nor  yit  in  authoritie.  For  of 
lait  yearis,  many  thingis,  whiche  befoir  war  haldin  stable,  have 
bene  called  in  doubt ;  yea  thei  have  bene  plainlie  impugned. 
But  yit,  Madame,  (said  he,)  I  am  assured  that  neather  Pro- 
testant nor  Papist  shalbe  abill  to  prove,  that  any  suche  ques- 
tioun  was  at  any  time  moved  in  publict  or  in  secreat.     Now, 

1  That  is,  Mary,  Queen  of  England. 


280  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

Madam,  (said  he,)  yf  I  had  intended  to  have  tmbled  your 
estaite,  becaus  ye  ar  a  woman,  I  myght  have  chosen  a  tyme 
more  convenient  for  that  purpose,  then  I  can  do  now,  when 
your  awin  presence  is  M'ithin  the  Reahne. 

"  But  now.  Madam,  schortlie  to  ansuer  to  the  other  two 
accusationis.  I  hartlie  praise  my  God,  throwgh  Jesus  Christ, 
that  Sathan  the  ennemye  of  mankj'nd,  and  the  wicked  of  the 
world,  have  no  other  ciymes  to  lay  to  my  charge,  then  suche 
as  the  verray  world  it  self  knoweth  to  be  most  fals  and  vane. 
For  in  England  I  wes  resident  onlie  the  space  of  fyve  yearis.^ 
The  places  war  Berwick,  whair  I  abode  two  yearis  ;  so  long  in 
the  New  Castell ;  and  a  year  in  London.  Now,  Madam,  yf  in 
any  of  these  places,  during  the  tyme  that  I  wes  thair,  any 
man  salbe  able  to  prove,  that  thair  wes  eather  battell,  sedi- 
tioun,  or  mutinie,  I  shall  confesse  that  I  my  selif  was  the 
malefactour,  and  the  scheddar  of  the  bloode.  I  eschame  not, 
Madam,  farther  to  affirme,  that  God  so  blissed  my  walk  lau- 
bouris,  that  in  Berwick  (whair  commonlie  befoir  thair  used  to 
be  slauchter,  be  ressone  of  quarrellis  that  used  to  aiyse  amongis 
soldartis)  thair  was  as  great  quyetnes,  all  the  tyme  that  I  re- 
maned thair,  as  thair  is  this  day  in  Edinburgh.^  And  whare 
the  sclander  me  of  magick,  nycromancie,  or  of  any  other  arte 
forbidden  of  God,  I  have  witnesses,  (besydis  my  awin  con- 
science,) all  3  congregationis  that  ever  heard  me,  what  I  spake 
both  against  suche  artis,  and  against  those  that  iise  suche  im- 
pietie.  But,  seing  the  wicked  of  the  world  said,  That  my 
Maister,  the  Lord  Jesus,  was  possessed  with  Beelzebub,  I  man 

^    Knox's   residence  in  England  ex-  so  hardclye  upon  her  harte,   that  he 

tended  from  the  period  of  his  release  made  her  weepe,  as  well  j^ou  know  ther 

from  the  French  galleys  till  the  death  be  of  that  sexe  that  will  do  that  as  well 

of  Edward  the  Sixth,  (1549-1553  :)    see  fur  anger  as  for  greef,  &c.    ...   The 

Tol.  i.  pp.  XV.  xvi.  brute  [report]  that  he  hathe  tawlked 

2  Knox's  interview  took  place  on  a  with  the  Queue  maketh   the  Papistis 

Tuesday,  the  26th  of  August.  Randolph  dowte  what  wyll  become  of  the  worlde." 

alludes  to  it  iu  a  letter  to  Cecil,  dated  (Wright's  Queen  Elizabeth,  tdI.  i.  p.  72.) 
7th  September.     Mr.  Knox  spoke  upon  ^  In  MS.  G,  "  all  the." 

Tuesday  with  the  Queue.  "  He  knocked 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  281 

patientlie  bear,  albeit  that  I,  wretched   synnar,   be   injustlie 
accused  of  those,  that  never  delyted  in  the  veritie." 

"  But  yit,  (said  sche)  ye  have  taught  the  people  to  receave  ^JI'^^oXd""' 
ane  other  Religioun,  than  thair  Princes  can  allow :   And  how  ^f^^l' 
can  that  doctrin  be  of  God,  seing,  that  God  conimandis  sub- 
jectis  to  obey  thair  Princes?" 

''  Madam,  (said  he,)  as  lyclit  Religioun  tooke  nathcr  origi-  [answeri 
nail  strenth  l  nor  authoritie  fronie  worldly  Princes,  but  frome 
the  Eternall  God  allone,  so  are  not  subjectis  bound  to  frame 
thair  Religioun  according  to  the  appetites  of  thair  Princes. 
For  oft  it  is,  that  Princes  ar  the  most  ignorant  of  all  otheris  in 
Goddis  treu  Religioun,  as  we  may  reid  in  the  historyes  alse 
Weill  befoir  the  death  of  Christ  Jesus,  as  efter.  Yf  all  the 
sead  of  Abraham  should  have  bene  of  the  Religioun  of  Pharao, 
whome  to  thei  war  lang  subjectis,  I  pray  you,  Madam,  what 
Religioun  should  thair  have  bene  in  the  world  ?  Or,  yf  all 
men  in  the  dayis  of  the  Apostles  should  have  bene  of  the  Re- 
ligioun of  the  Roman  e  Emperouris,  what  Religioun  should 
thair  have  bene  upoun  the  face  of  the  earth  ?  Danicll  and 
his  fellowis  war  subjectis  to  Nabuchadonozzar,  and  unto  Darius, 
and  yitt,  Madam,  thei  wold  nott  be  of  thair  Religioun,  neather 
of  the  one  or  of  the  other :  for  the  thre  Children  said,  "  We 
maik  it  known  unto  thee,  0  King,  that  we  will  not  worschijD  thy 
goddis."  And  Daniell  did  pray  publictlie  unto  his  God  against 
the  expressed  commandiment  of  the  King.  And  so,  Madam, 
ye  may  perceave,  that  subjectis  ar  not  bound  to  the  Religioun 
of  thair  Princes,  albeit  thei  ar  commanded  to  geve  thame 
obedience." 

"  Yea,  (quod  sche,)  but  nane  of  thai  men  raised  the  sweard  q"]^.^"'^" 
against  thair  Princes."  twvs. 

"  Yit,  Madam,   (quod  he,)  ye  cane  not  deny  but  that  they  [axswkh.] 
resisted :  for  these  that  obey  nott  the  commandimentis  that  ar 
gevin,  in  some  sort  resist." 

^  MS.  C,  omits  tliis  word,  "  strenth." 


282  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

QUESTiotJN.       '<  But  yit,  (said  sclie,)  tliei  resisted  not  by  the  sweard?" 
(ANSWER.]        a  Qq^^  ^g^-^  Yie,)  Madam,  had  not  gevin  unto  thanie  the 
power  and  the  meanes." 

"  Think  ye,  (quod  sclie,)  that  suhjectis  having  power  may 
resist  tliair  Princes?" 

"  Yf  thair  Princes  exceed  thair  boundis,  (quod  he,)  Madam, 

and  do  against  tliat  whairfoir  tliey  should  he  obeyed,  it  is  no 

doubt  but  thei  may  be  resisted,  evin  by  power.     For  thair  is 

neather  greattar  honour,  nor  greattar  obedience  to  be  gevin  to 

TO  a'nswkr  kings  or  princes,  then  God  hes  commanded  to  be  gevin  unto 

M AR.^"^      father  and  mother :    But  so  it  is,  Madam,  that  the  father  may 

be  stricken  with  a  phrensye,  in  the  which  he  wold  slay  his 

awin  childrene.     Now,  Madame,  yf  the  children  aryese,  joyne 

thame  selfis  togetther,  apprehend  the  father,  tack  the  sweard 

or  other  weaponis  frome  him,  and  finallie  bind  his  handis,  and 

keape  him  in  preasone,  till  that  his  phrenesy  be  over  past ;  think 

ye.  Madam,  that  the  children  do  any  wrang  ?     Or,  think  ye. 

Madam,  that  God  wilbe  offended  with  thame  that  have  stayed 

tliair  father  to  committ  wickedness  ?    It  is  even  so,  (said  he,) 

Madam,  with  Princes  that  wold  murther  the  children  of  God 

zeIll*        ^^^^^  ^1'^  subject  unto  thame.     Thair  blynd  zeall  is  no  thing 

WHAT.         ^^^j^  ^  verray  mad  phrenesie  ;  and  thairfoir,  to  tack  the  sweard 

WHEN  THIS  frome  thame,  to  bynd  thair  handis,  and  to  cast  thame  selfis  in 

WAS    WRIT-  '  "^  ' 

wEsxc"^'^  preasone,  till  that  thei  be  brought  to  a  more  sober  mynd,  is  no 
Ince'm-  disobedience  against  princes,  but  just  obedience,  becaus  that  it 
EMPREA-      aggreith  with  the  will  of  God." 

At  these  wordis,  the  Quene  stood  as  it  war  amased,  more 
then  the  quarter  of  ane  hour.  Hir  countenance  altered,  so 
that  Lord  James  begane  to  entreat  her,  and  to  demand,  "  Wliat 
hes  offended  jou,  Madam  ?" 

At  lenth,  scho  said,  "  Weall  then  I  perceave  that  my  sub  • 

'  This   marginal  note  in  MS.  1566,  the  imprisonment  of  Queen   Mary  in 

occur.'!  in  one  of  the  re-written  sets  or  Lochlevin  Castle,   in  June  1567,  from 

quires,  and  is  in  the  same  hand  with  whence  she  made  her  escape  on  the  2d 

the  text.     The  roforence  is  evidently  to  May  1568. 


SOSMENT.I 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  283 


and  iiott  vvliat  I  command :  and  so  man  I  be  subject  to  tliame,  *"°^'^- 
and  nott  tliei  to  me."  % 

"  God  forbid,  (answered  he,)  that  ever  I  tack  upoun  me  to 
command  any  to  obey  me,  or  yitt  to  set  subjectis  at  libertie  to 
do  what  pleaseth  thame.  Bot  my  travell  is,  that  boyth  princes 
and  subjectis  obey  God.  And  think  not,  (said  he,)  Madam, 
that  wrong  is  done  unto  you,  when  ye  ar  willed  to  be  subject 
unto  God :  for  it  is  he  that  subjects  people  under  princes,  and 
causses  obedience  to  be  gevin  unto  thame ;  yea,  God  craves 
of  Kingis  That  tliei  be  as  it  war  foster-fatheris  to  his  Churche, 
and  commands  Quenis  to  be  nurisses  unto  his  people.  And 
this  subjectioun.  Madam,  unto  God,  and  unto  his  trubled 
Churche,  is  the  greatest  dignitie  that  flesche  can  get  upoun  the 
face  of  the  earth,  for  it  shall  cary  thame  to  everlasting  glorie." 

"  Yea,  (quod  sche,)  but   ye  are  not  the  Kirk  that  I  will  the  queni 
nureiss.     I  will  defend  the  Kirk  of  Rome,  for,  I  think,  it  is  the 
treu  Kirk  of  God." 

'•'  Your  will,  (quod  he,)  Madam,  is  no  reassone ;  neather 
doetli  your  tlioght  maik  that  Romane  harlot  to  be  the  treu  and 
immaculat  spous  of  Jesus  Christ.  And  wonder  nott.  Madam, 
that  I  call  Rome  a  harlott ;  for  that  Churche  is  altogidder  pol- 
luted with  all  kynd  of  spirituall  fornicatioun,  alsweall  in 
doctrine  as  in  maneris.  Yea,  Madam,  I  offer  myselff  farther  to 
prove,  that  the  Churche  of  the  Jewes  that  crucifyed  Christ  Jesus, 
was  not  so  far  degenerated  frome  the  ordinances  and  statutis 
Avliich  God  gave  be  Moses  and  Aharon  unto  his  people,  when 
that  thei  manifestlie  denyed  the  Sone  of  God,2  as  that  the 
Churche  of  Rome  is  declyned,  and  more  than  five  hundreth 
year  hath  declyned  frome  the  puritie  of  that  Religioun,  whiche 
the  Apostles  taught  and  planted." 

"  My  conscience,  (said  sche,)  is  nott  so." 

1  Namely,  .John  Kuox.  "  In  MS.  G,  these  words  arc  trausposed. 


284  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

"  Conscience,  Madam,  (said  lie,)  requyres  knowlege ;  and  I 
fear  that  lyclit  knowlege  ye  have  none." 

"  But,  (said  sche,)  I  have  bayth  heard  and  red." 

"  So,  (said  he,)  Madam,  did  the  Jewes  that  crucifyed  Christ 
Jesus,  read  both  the  Law  and  the  Prophetis,  and  heard  the  same 
interprete  after  tliair  manor.  Have  ye  heard,  (said  he,)  any 
teache,  but  such  as  the  Pope  and  his  Cardinalles  have  allowed  ? 
And  ye  may  be  assured,  that  suclie  will  speak  nothing-  to 
oftend  thair  awin  estaite." 

"  Ye  interprete  the  Scripturis  (said  she,)  in  one  manor,  and 
thei  intei'prete  in  ane  other  ;  Wliome  .shall  I  beleve  ?  And  who 
shalbe  judge  ?" 

"  Ye  .shall  beleve  (said  he,)  God,  that  planelie  speaketh  in 
his  word  :  and  farther  then  the  word  teaches  you,  ye  neather 
shall  beleve  the  ane  or  the  other.  The  word  of  God  is  plane 
in  the  self;  and  yf  thair  appear  any  obscuritie  in  one  place,  the 
Holy  Ghost,  whiche  is  never  contrariouse  to  him  self,  explanes 
the  same  more  clearlie  in  other  places :  so  that  thair  can  re- 
mane  no  doubt,  but  unto  suche  as  obstinatlie  remane  ignorant. 
And  now,  (said  he,)  Madam,  to  tack  ane  of  the  cheaf  pointis, 
whiche  this  day  is  in  contraversie  betwix  the  Papistis  and  us : 
for  example,  the  Papistis  allege,  and  boldly  have  affirmed, 
That  the  Messe  is  the  ordinance  of  God,  and  the  institutioun  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  a  sacrifice  for  the  synnes  of  the  quyck  and 
the  dead.  We  deny  botlie  the  one  and  the  other,  and  affirme, 
that  the  Messe,  as  it  is  now  used,  is  nothing  but  the  inventioun 
of  man  ;  and,  thairfoir,  is  an  abominatioun  befoir  God,  and  no 
sacrifice  that  ever  God  commanded.  Now,  Madam,  who  shall 
judge  betwix  us  two  thus  contending  ?  It  is  no  reassone  that 
eather  of  the  parteis  be  farther  beleved,  then  thei  arc  able  to 
prove  by  insuspect  witnessing  :  Let  thamc  lay  down  the  book 
of  God,  and  by  the  plane  wordis  thairof  prove  their  affirma- 
tives, and  we  shall  geve  unto  thame  the  pley  granted.  But  so 
long  as  thei  ar  bold  to  affirme,  and  yit  do  prove  nothing,  we 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  285 

man  say,  that  albeit  all  the  warld  beleved  thame,  yit  beleve 
thci  not  God,  but  reeeaves  the  lyes  of  men  for  the  treuth  of 
God.  "VVluat  oure  maister  Jesus  Christ  did,  we  know  by  his 
Evangelistis :  what  the  preast  doeth  at  his  Messe,  the  warld 
seeth.  Now,  doeth  nott  the  word  of  God  planelie  assure  us, 
that  Christ  Jesus  neather  said,  nor  yit  commanded  Messe  to  be 
said  at  his  Last  Suppar,  seing  that  no  suche  thing  as  thair 
Messe  is  maid  mentioun  of  within  the  whole  Scripturis  ?" 

"  Ye  ar  oure  sair  for  me,  (said  the  Queue,)  but  and  yf  thai 
Avar  here  that  I  have  heard,  thai  wold  ansuer  you." 

"  Madam,  (quod  the  other,)  wold  to  God  that  the  learnedest 
Papist  in  Europe,  and  he  that  ye  wold  best  beleve,  war  present 
Avith  your  Grace  to  sustene  the  argument ;  and  that  ye  wald 
patientlie  abyd  to  hear  the  mater  reassoned  to  the  end ;  for 
then  I  doubt  not.  Madam,  but  that  ye  should  hear  the  vanitie 
of  the  Papisticall  religioun,  and  how  small  ^  ground  it  hath 
within  the  wourd  of  God." 

"  Weall  (said  sclie)  ye  may  perchance  gett  that  sonner  than 
ye  beleve." 

"  Assuredlie,  (said  the  other)  yf  ever  I  gett  that  in  my  lyeff, 
I  gett  it  sonnar  than  I  beleif ;  for  the  ignorant  Papistis  can 
not  patientlie  reassoun,  and  the  learned  and  crafty  Papist  will 
never  come  in  your  audience,  Madam,  to  have  the  ground  of 
thair  religioun  searched  out ;  for  thai  know  that  thai  ar  never 
able  to  sustene  ane  argument,  except  fyre  and  sweard,  and 
thair  aAvin  lawis  be  judges." 

"  So  say  ye,  (quod  the  Queue,)  but  I  cane  beleve  that." 

"  It  lies  bene  so  to  this  day,2  (quod  he,)  for  how  oft  have  the 

Papistis  in  this  and  other  realmes  bein  required  to  come  to 

conference,  and  yitt  could  it  never  be  obteaned,  unless  that 

thame  selfis  war  admitted  for  judges.     And  thairfoir.  Madam, 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  how  little."  more  correctly  thus  :— "  So   say   ye," 

2  In  MS.  G,  these  words  are  added  said  the  Quene,  "  Bot  (s.nid  he)  1  can 
to  the  preceding  sentence.  In  MS.  L  4,  believe  that  it  has  not  been  this  day," 
the  words  are  arranged,  and  perhaps  &c. 


28G  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

I  must  yitt  say  agane,  that  thai  dar  never  dispute,  but  whare 
thame  selfis  are  Loth  judge  and  partye.  And  whensoever  that 
ye  shall  let  me  see  the  contrarye,  I  shall  grant  my  selff  to 
have  bene  deceaved  in  that  poynt." 

And  with  this  the  Queue  was  called  upon  to  dennar,  for  it 
was  after-noon.  At  departing,  Johnne  Knox  said  unto  hir, 
"  I  pray  God,  Madam,  that  ye  may  be  als  blessed  within  the 
Commoun-wealth  of  Scotland,  yf  it  be  the  pleasur  of  God,  as 
ever  Debora  was  in  the  Commoun-wealth  of  Israeli." 

Of  this  long  Conference,  whairof  we  onlie  tueich  a  part,  war 
diverse  opinionis.  The  Papistis  grudged,  and  feared  that 
which  thai  neided  not.  The  godlye,  thinking  at  least  that 
sche  wold  have  heard  the  preaching,  rejoised  ;  but  thai  war 
alluterly  deceaved,  for  sche  continewed  in  her  Messing ;  and  dis- 
pised  and  quyetlie  mocked  all  exhortationis. 
joHNEKKox      Johne  Knox  his  awin  judgement,  being  be  some  of  his^  fami- 

HIS  JUUG-  «  o  o 

MKNT  OF      liaris  demanded,  Wliat  he  thought  of  the  Queue  ?  "  Yf  thair 

THE  QUENE  '  °  ^ 

f?rst'^\ni)  ^6  1^*^^  "^  ^^^^'  (said  he)  a  proud  mynd,  a  crafty  witt,  and  ane 
EVER  SINCE,  ^j-j^i^j.r^^  hearte  against    God   and   his   treutli,    my  judgment 
faileth  me." 

When  the  hoill  Nobilitie  war  convened,  the  Lordis  of  Privey 
Counsall  war  chosen,^  who  war  appointed,^  the  Duke  his  Grace, 
the  Erles  of  Huntley,  Ergyle,  Atholl,  Mortoun,  Glencarne,  Mer- 
schell,  Bothwell :  Lordis  Erskin,  &c..  Lord  James,  &c.  Of 
these  war  a  certane  appointed  to  wait  upoun  [the]  Court  by 
course  ;  but  that  ordour  continewed  not  lang. 

Duck  D'Omell  ^  returned  with  the  galayes  to  France.     The 

>  In  MS.  G,  "  his  awn."  See  an  extract  from  the  Register,  in 

2  In  MS.  L  4,  "  those  that  war  ap-  Keith's  History,  (new  edit.  vol.  ii.  p. 
pointed,  war."  78.) 

3  The  meeting  of  the  Privy  Council,  *  Claude,  Duke  d'Aumale,  (see  note  6, 
refei-red  to,  was  held  in  the  Palace  of  page  268.)  On  Sunday,  the  last  of 
Ilolyrood,  on  the  6th  of  September  1561.  August,  he  was  present  at  the  banquet 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


287 


Queue  entered  in  liir  jjrogresscs,  and  in  tlie  nionetli  of  Sep- 
tember traveled  from  Edinburgh  to  Lynlytliqu,  Striveling, 
Sanct  Jolmestoun,  Dondic,  Sanctandrois  ;5  which  all  partis  sclie 
polluted  with  hir  idolatrie.  Fyi-e  followed  hir  verray  com- 
mounlie  in  that  jorney.  The  townis  propyned  hir  liberallie, 
and  thairof  war  the  Frenche  enriched. 

In  tlie  begyning  of  October,^  sche  returned  to  Edinburgh, 
and  at  the  day  appointed  sche  was  receaved  in  the  Castell. 
Great  preparationis  war  maid  for  hir  enteress  in  the  town.  In 
ferses,  in  masking,  and  in  other  prodigalities,  faine  wold  fooles 


given  by  the  Town  of  Edinburgh  to  the 
Queen  and  the  French  princes ;  and  on 
the  following  day,  "  the  said  Monssieur 
Doiuell  [d'Aumale]  depairtit  with  the 
twa  gallionis,  quhilk  brocht  the  Quenis 
Grace  hame,  to  France."  (Diurnal  of 
Occurrents,  p.  67.)  The  Queen,  on  the 
24th  of  August,  had  granted  precepts 
for  the  following  sums,  £37, 10s.  to  be 
paid  "  to  John  Terrie,  maister  of  ane 
schip  ;"  100  crounis  of  the  sun  "  to  six 
pilots,  of  the  twa  galeris ;"  £GG,  13s.  4d. 
to  "Monsieur  Tynnance,tobe  distributit 
amangis  the .  officiai-is  of  the  twa  ga- 
leris ;"  and  200  crounis  of  the  sun,  or 
£266,  13s.  4d.  to  INIonsieur  Tynnance, 
for  his  own  use.  (Treasurer's  Ac- 
counts.) 

It  may  be  added,  that  the  Grand 
Prior,  the  Sieur  Damville,  and  most  of 
their  attendants,  returned  by  land,  in- 
tending to  visit  the  English  Court.  They 
were  accompanied  to  Berwick  by  seve- 
ral of  the  Scottish  Nobility ;  the  Queen 
having  addressed  letters  "  to  some 
Lords  and  others  to  convoy  the  Grande 
Priour  and  Mons^  Damweile  of  Edin- 
burgh to  Berwick,"  on  the  8th  and  9th 
of  October.  About  the  same  time,  the 
Treasui-er  "  deliverit  to  the  Quenis 
Grace  ane  chene  of  gold  contenand  J""  1. 
(150)  crounis  of  the  sone,  and  twa 
chenis  of  gold,  ilk  ane  of  tham  contenand 


1.  (50)  crounis  of  the  sone,  quhilk  hir 
Grace  deliverit  to  Mons"'.  Marquess,  to 
gif  three  Frenche  men  that  passit  with 
the  Grande  Priour  and  Mons"".  Dan- 
weill— Sumnia,  £333,  6s.  8d."  There 
was  also  paid  to  James  Mosman,  gold- 
smith, for  making  these  chains,  £29, 
10s.,  and  20s.  in  drink-silver  to  his 
servants. 

'-'  Preparatory  to  the  Queen's  pro- 
gress, her  Master  Stabler,  on  the  6th 
September,  purchased  10  horses  or 
haikneys.  She  was  accompanied  by 
two  of  her  Uncles,  Monsieur  Damville, 
and  a  number  of  ladies.  She  set  out 
from  Holyrood  Palace  on  horseback, 
after  dinner,  on  the  11th  of  that  month, 
and  remained  at  Linlithgow  Palace  that 
night,  and  the  following  day;  on  the 
13th  she  rode  to  Stirling  Castle,  and 
was  there  on  Sunday  the  14th  ;  on  the 
15th  she  passed  through  Alloa  to  Kin- 
cardine, or,  as  some  authorities  state, 
to  Leslie  Castle  in  Fife ;  on  the  17th  she 
came  to  Perth  ;  on  the  19th  to  Dundee ; 
crossed  the  Tay  to  St.  Andrews,  on  the 
20th ;  a  few  days  afterwards  she  pro- 
ceeded to  Falkland  Palace;  and  re- 
turned to  Holyrood  on  Monday  the  29th 
of  September  1561.  (Chalmers's  Queen 
Mary,  2d  edit.  vol.  i.  pp.  82-86  ;  Diurnal 
of  Occurrents,  p.  69.) 

"  See  next  page,  note  1. 


288 


THE  HISTORY  OP 


Book  IV. 


have  counterfooted  France.  VYliatsoever  niyght  sett  furth  hir 
glory,  that  sche  heard,  and  glaidlye  beheld.  The  keyes  war 
delivered  unto  hir  by  a  pretty  boy,  descending  as  it  war  from 
a  cloud.  The  verses  of  hir  awin  j)raise  sche  heard,  and  smyled. 
But  when  the  Bible  was  presented,  and  the  praise  thairof  de- 
clared, sche  began  to  frown :  for  schame  sche  could  not  refuise 
it.i  But  she  did  no  better,  for  iramediatelie  sche  gave  it  to 
the  most  pestilent  Papist  within  the  Realme,  to  Avit,  to  Ar- 
tlioure  Erskyn.2     Edinburgh  since   that    day  had   reaped  as 


^  From  the  preceding  note  it  'will  be 
seen  that  Queen  Mary  returned  from 
her  progress  on  the  29th  of  September ; 
and  that  Knox  has  mistaken  the  date  of 
her  first  entry  into  Edinburgh.  It  was 
on  Tuesday  the  2d  September.  A  minute 
and  interesting  notice  of  it  occurs  in  the 
Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  p.  67,  but  the 
passage  is  too  long  for  quotation.  She 
rode  through  the  town  to  the  Castle, 
where  she  dined  at  12  o'clock ;  and  then 
returning,  various  jjageants  were  repre- 
sented in  different  parts  of  the  town,  as 
she  proceeded,  convoyed  by  the  nobility 
and  chief  inhabitants,  dressed  in  velvet 
gowns  and  bonnets,  carrying  a  pall  of 
fine  purple  velvet,  with  fringes  of  gold 
and  silk.  Upon  reaching  the  Palace 
of  Holyrood,  she  received  a  jyvopyve, 
or  gift  of  a  cupboard,  "  quhilk  was 
double  our-gilt ;  the  price  thairof  was 
2000  merks."  Randolph,  in  his  letter 
to  Cecil,  on  the  7th  September,  also 
mentions  that  part  of  the  pageant  to 
which  Knox  alludes.  He  says,  "  Upon 
Tuesday  last  the  Queen  made  her  entry. 
She  dyned  in  the  Castle.  The  fyrst 
syghte  she  sawe  after  she  cam  oute  of 
the  Castle,  was  a  boye  of  six  yeres  of 
age,  that  cam,  as  it  were,  from  heaven 
oute  of  a  rounde  globe,  that  presented 
unto  hir  a  Bible  and  Psalter,  and  the 
keys  of  the  gates,  and  spake  unto  her 
the  verses  which  I  send  you.  There, 
for  the  terrible  sygnifications  of  the 


vengeance  of  God  upon  idolatrie,  ther 
war  bui-nt  Coron,  Dathan,  and  Abiram, 
in  the  tyme  of  thair  sacrifice.  Thei  war 
mynded  to  have  had  a  priest  (that  is, 
the  representation  of  a  priest)  burned 
at  the  altar,  at  the  elevation.  The  Erie 
of  Huntlye  stayed  that  pagent,  but  hath 
playde  mauye  as  wicked  as  that  since 
he  came  hytber."  (Wright's  Queen 
Elizabeth,  vol.  i.  p.  73.)  The  expenses 
attending  the  "  Banquet "  on  the  31st 
August,  and  the  "  Triumph,"  on  the  2d 
September,  cost  the  inhabitants  of  Edin- 
burgh the  sum  of  4000  merks,  which  it 
was  resolved  should  be  levied  by  a  gene- 
ral stent  or  assessment. 

^  Arthur  Erskine  was  Captain  of  the 
Queen's  guard.  He  was  present  at  sup- 
per in  Queen  Mary's  apartment  the 
night  of  Riccio's  murder.  And  having 
escaped  from  her  temporary  confine- 
ment in  Holyrood,  on  the  night  of  the 
11th  of  March  1566,  she  "  came  to  the 
place  where  Ai'thur  Ersken,  the  cap- 
tayn  of  her  garde  kept  the  horses,  and 
so  rode  her  waye  behinde  ^li'thur  Ers- 
kin  untill  she  cam  to  Seton.  There  she 
took  a  horse  to  herself,  and  rode  to  Dun- 
barre,"  &c.  (AVright's  Queen  Elizabeth, 
vol.  i.  p.  231.)  In  April  1562,  the  Trea- 
surer paid  "  be  the  Quenis  Grace  spe- 
ciall  command,  to  Arthur  Erskin  to  by 
him  ane  hors,  £40  :"  and  on  the  2d  of 
Jvme  1565,  in  like  manner  there  was 
paid  "  to  Arthur  Erskin  ane  of  the 


1561. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


289 


thai  sew.  Thai  gave  hir  some  taist  of  thair  prodigalitic  ;  and 
becaus  the  liquor  was  sweet,  schc  hes  licked  of  that  buist 
oftar  than  twyse  since.^  All  men  know  what  we  mean :  the 
Quene  can  not  lack,  and  the  subjectis  have. 

In  Edinburgh  it  hath  bene  ane  auncient  and  laudable  cus- 
tom, that  the  Pro  vest,  Baillies,  and  Counsall,  after  thair  elec- 
tioun,  which  useth  to  be  at  Michaelmess,  caused  publictlie 
proclame^  the  Statutes  and  Ordinances  of  the  town.  And 
thairfoir  Archibald  Dowglas,  Provest ;  Edwarde  Hope,  Adame 
Fowllartoun,  [Mr.  James  Watsone,  and  David  Soraer,^]  Bail- 
lies,  caused  proclame,  according  to  the  formar  Statutes  of  the 
town,  that  no  adulterar,  [no  fornicatour,]  no  noted  drunkard, 
no  mess-mongare,  no  obstinate  Papistis  that  corrupted  the 
people,  such  as  preastis,  freiris,  and  otheris  of  that  sorte, 
should  be  found  within  the  toun  within  fourty-aught  houris 
thairafter,  under  the  paines  conteaned  in  the  statutes.     Which 


DAI.FOXJR, 
HIS  DOC- 
TRINK. 


maisteris  of  bir  Graces  Curie  to  by  him 
ane  horse,  xx  crownis."  In  December 
1564,  he  is  styled  "  Arthur  Erskine  of 
Blackgrange,  brotlier-german  to  John 
Lord  Erskine."  (Register  of  Signa- 
tures.) He  was  probably  the  ancestor 
of  the  Erskines  of  Scotscraig  in  Fife, 
who  flourished  in  the  following  century. 

3  In  MS.  A,  the  mai-ginal  note  is 
thus  inserted  in  the  text,  "  ance  or  twice 
since  this  was  Balfoures  rule." 

*  Keith  has  accused  Knox  of  misstating 
this  ftxct.  Had  he  examined  the  Coun- 
cil Records  more  carefully,  he  would 
have  found  direct  evidence  of  the  prac- 
tice of  proclaiming  the  Statutes  enacted 
by  the  Council,  to  wloich  Knox  alludes, 
on  the  8th  November  1555.  Knox's 
account  of  the  change  of  the  Magistracy 
of  Edinburgh  is  quite  correct,  although 
it  has  also  been  called  in  question. 
Upon  examining  the  Council  Records, 
it  appears  that  Ai-chibald  Douglas  was 
Provost ;  and  Mr.  James  Watson,  David 
Somer,  Edward  Hope,  and  Adam  Foul- 
VOL.  II. 


larton,  Baillies,  in  1560-1561 ;  and  that 
on  the  24th  March  1560-1,  proclamation 
was  made  of  the  Act  1560,  against 
Priests,  Adulterars,  &c.  At  the  next 
election  in  September  1561,  Douglas  was 
re-elected  Provost,  with  David  Forster, 
Robert  Kar,  Alexander  Home,  and  Allan 
Dikesoun,  as  Baillies.  On  the  2d  Octo- 
ber, the  above  proclamation  was  ordered 
to  be  made  on  the  following  day ;  and  on 
the  5th,  the  Queen  lent  a  macer  en- 
joining the  Town  Council  to  deprive 
their  new  Magistrates,  and  to  appoint 
others  in  their  room.  A  new  election 
accordingly  took  place  on  the  8th  of 
October,  as  detailed  at  considerable 
length  by  Maitland,  (Hist,  of  Edinburgh, 
p.  21.) 

5  In  MS.  1566,  and  also  in  MSS.  G  and 
A,  a  blank  space  is  left  for  these  names ; 
in  MS.  L  4,  "  &c."  is  supplied ;  and  this 
marginal  note  added,  "  The  Provost, 
Baillies,  of  Edinburgh  changed  at  the 
Queues  command." 


290  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

blawin  in  the  Quenis  earis,  tbair  began  piyde  and  malicious- 
nes  to  scbaw  the  self;  for  without  farther  cognitioun  of  the 
cans,  was  the  Provest  and  Baillies  charged  to  ward  in  the 
Castell ;  and  immediatlie  Avas  commandiment  gevin,  that  other 
Provest  and  Baillies  should  be  elected.^ 
THK  QUENIS  Somc  gaucstood  for  a  while  the  new  electioun,  alledgeing, 
^tl^^  r„r,   that  the  Provest  and  Baillies  whom  thai  had  chosen,  and  to 

AFTEE  HIE  ' 

ARRTVALL.  ^Ijqjj-^  i]^q^[  j^g^j  gGvlu  tlialr  oath,  had  committed  no  offence 
whairfoir  that  justlie  thai  aught  to  be  depiyved.  But  whill 
charge  was  doubled  ui^oun  charge,  and  no  man  was  found  to 
oppone  thame  selffis  to  iniquitie,^  Jesabellis  letter  and  wicked 
will  is  obeyed  as  a  law.  And  so  was  Mr.  Thomas  Mackakeane 
chosen^  for  the  other.  The  man,  no  doubt,  was  boyth  dis- 
creat  and  sufficient  for  that  charge  ;3  but  the  depositioun  of 
the  other  was  against  all  law.  God  be  mercyfuU  to  some  of 
our  owen ;  for  thai  war  not  all  blameless  that  hir  wicked  will 
was  so  far  obeyed. 

A  contrair  proclamatioun  was  publictlie  maid,  that  the  toun 
THE  quE.Ni  s  should  be  patent  unto  all  the  Quenis  lieges  ;  and  so  murthe- 
LiEGEs,  raris,  adulteraris,  theavis,  hooris,  drunkardis,  idolateris,  and  all 
malefactouris,  gatt  protectioun  under  the  Quenis  Avyngis,  under 
that  cullour,  becaus  thai  war  of  hir  religioun.  And  so  gatt 
the  Devill  fredome  agane,  whair  that  befoir  he  durst  nott  have 
bene  sene  in  the  day  lyght  upoun  the  commoun  streatis. 
"  Lord  deliver  us  from  that  bondage." 

1  See  note  2,  p.  289,  respecting  the  ^  Iq  ]\js.  q^  u  ^Ij.  Thomas  M'Cally 
election.  In  a  letter  to  Cecill,  Knox,  on  chosen  Provost." — Mr.  Thomas  M'Cal- 
the  7th  October  1561,  writes  : — "  At  tliis  zean  of  Cliftonhall,  was  educated  at  St. 
verry  instant  ar  the  Provost  of  Edin-  Andrews,  being  a  fellow-student  with 
burgh  and  Baillies  thairof,  command  to  George  Buchanan,  in  St.  Salvator's  Col- 
ward  in  thare  Tolboght,  be  reason  of  lege  in  1525.  He  was  admitted  Advo- 
thair  proclamatioun  against  Papists  and  cate  in  1549,  and  became  Assessour  of 
hoormongeris.  The  whole  blame  Ij'eth  the  Town  of  Edinburgh ;  and  was  cho- 
upon  the  necke  of  the  two  fornamcd,"  sen  Provost  in  1558,  as  well  as  on  the 
viz.  Lord  .James  Stewart  and  Letliington.  above  occasion.     He  Avas  appointed   a 

*  In  MS.  G,   "to  oppone  himself  to  Lordof  Session,  20th  October  1570;  and 

impietie."  <lied  5th  June  1581. 


WHA  : 


HOLL  AEMK. 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  291 

The  Devill  finding  liis  rainzcis  lowsc,  nan  fordwarte  in  his  I'l^^^^l'"-'' 
course ;  and  tlie  Queue  took  upoun  hir  grettar  boldness  than  ^;?'iTr['^His 
sclie  and  Baalles  Lleatting  preastis^  durst  have  attempted  be-  will'^^' 
foir.      For  upoun  Allhallow  day^  thai  blended  up  thair  Messe  furth  i  hi 
with  all  myscheivous  solempnitie.     The  ministeris  thairat  of- 
fended, in  plane  and  publict  place,  declared  the  inconvenientis 
that  thairupoun  should  ensew.     The  Nobilitie  war  sufficicntlie 
admonished  of  thair  dewiteis.      But  affectioun  caused  men  to 
call  that  in  doubt,  whairin  schort  befoir  thai  seamed  to  be 
most  resolute,  to  wit,  "  "Whitther  that  subjectis  mycht  put  to 
thair  hand  to  suppresse  the  idolatrie  of  thair  Prince  V     And 
upoun  this  questioun  conveined  in  the  house  of  Mr.  James  ^ 
Mackgill,  the  Lord  James,  the  Erie  of  Mortoun,  the  Erie  Mer- 
scliell,  Secretarie  Lethingtoun,  the  Justice  Cleark,^  and  Cleark 
of  Registre  ;^  who  all  reassoned  for  the  parte  of  the   Quene, 
affii-myng,  "That  the  subjectis  mycht  not  lauchfullie  tack  hir 
Messe  frome  hir."     In  the  contrair  judgement  war  the  princi- 
pall  Ministeris,  Mr.  Johne  Ilow,'^'  Maister  George  Hay,8  Maister 
Robert  Hammyltoun,9   and  Johne  Knox.      The   reassonis  of 

^  In  MS.  G,  "  will  schut  in."  to  1566,  when  lie  was  deprived  foi'  his 

^  In    MS.    G,    "  Baalim's    bleating  being   concerned    in  Riccio's   mvirder. 

preests."  He  was  restored  in  December  1567,  and 

^  Hallowmass,  or  All  Saints,  the  1st  continued  till  1577.     He  died  in  1579. 
of  November.  "  At  the  first  nomination  of  ministers 

*  In  MS.  1566,  one  of  the  transcribed  in  July  1560,  Row  was  appointed   to 

quires  ends  here  with  the  catch-word,  "of  Perth.     He  died  16th  October  1580. 
5Ir.  James,"  the  last  page  being  blank.  »  Mr.  George  Hay,  Commissioner  of 

5  Sir  John  Bellenden  of  Auchinoule,  the  diocese  of  Aberdeen  and  Banff, 
held  the  ofiSce  of  Justice  Clerk  for  near-  '  Mr.  Robert  Hamilton,  minister  of 
ly  tliii-ty  years.  He  was  appointed  sue-  St.  Andrews,  and  formerly  one  of  the 
cessor  to  his  father,  25th  June  1547,  Masters  or  Regents,  was  advanced  in 
and  the  oflfice  was  again  filled  in  No-  1574  to  be  Provost  of  St.  Mary's  College, 
vember  1578,  by  Sir  Lewis  Bellenden,  When  the  new  erection  of  the  College 
although  then  in  "  his  less  age,"  which  was  agreed  upon,  Hamilton  was  super- 
Lord  Hailes  conceives  to  mean  that  he  seded ;  and  in  May  1580  he  was  ordered 
was  not  then  twenty-five.  Sir  John  to  account  for  his  intromissions.  In 
died  6th  October  1576.  (Register  of  October  following,  he  was  denounced 
Confirmed  Testaments.)  as  rebel.    (Treasvirer's  Accounts.)    He 

«  Mr.  James  Makgill  of  Nether  Ran-  died  16th  April  1581.     (Wodrow  Mis- 

keillor,  was  Clerk  Register  fi-om   1554  cellany,  vol.  i.  p.  283.) 


292  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

boytli  partyes  we  will  omitt,  becaus  thai  wilbe  explaned  after, 
whair  the  same  questioun,  and  otheris  concernyng  the  Obe- 
dience dew  unto  Princes,  war  long  reassoned  in  open  as- 
semblie.  The  conclusioun  of  that  first  reassonyng  was,  "  That 
the  questioun  should  be  formed,  and  letteris  direct  to  Geneva 
for  the  resolutioun  of  that  Churche,"  whairin  Johne  Knox 
offered  his  laubouris.  But  Secretarie  Lethingtoun,  (alledging 
that  tliair  stood  mekle  in  the  infonnatioun,)  said,  that  he 
should  wryte.  But  that  was  onlie  to  dryve  tyme,  as  the  treuth 
declaired  the  self  The  Quenis  partye  urged,  "  That  the  Queue 
should  have  hir  religioun  free  in  liir  avvin  chapell,  to  do,  sche 
and  hir  houshold,  vdiat  thei  list/'  The  Ministeris  boyth  affirm- 
ed and  voted  the  contrair,  adding,  "That  hir  libertie  should  be  ^ 
thair  thraldome  or  it  was  long."  But  neathir  could  reassone 
nor  threatnyng  move  the  affectionis^  of  such  as  war  creipping 
in  credite.  And  so  did  the  vottis  of  the  Lordis  prevail  against 
the  Ministeris. 

For  the  punishement  of  thift  and  of  reaf,  which  had  cn- 
creassed  upoun  the  Borders,  and  in  the  Sowth,  from  the  Quenis 
any  vail,  was  the  Lord  James  maid  Lievtenent.^  Some  sus- 
pected that  suche  honour  and  charge  proceaded  frome  the 
same  heart  and  counsall  that  Saull  maid  David  capitane 
against  the  Philisteanis.  But  God  assisted  him,  and  bowed 
the  heartis  of  men  boyth  to  fear  and  obey  him.  Yea,  the  Lord 
Bothwell  him  self  at  that  tyme  assisted  him  (but  he  had  re- 
missioun  for  Lyddisdaill.)  Scharpe  executioun  was  maid  in 
Jedburgh,*  for  twenty-aught  of  ane  clan,  and  others  war  hanged 

^  In  MS.  G,  "  should  be  to."  Quenis  arryvall,  was  sent  hither  to  re- 

''■  In  MS.  G,  "  move  the  hearts."  press  them.     Some  sxispected,"  &c. 

3  In  MS.  G,  "  appointed  Lieutenant."  *  On  the    13th    October   1561,    the 

In  MS.  L  4,  the  whole  structure  of  this  Tiivy  Council  resolved  that  a  Justice 

sentence  is  thus  changed  :    "  Whill  the  Court  should  be  held  at  .Jedburgh,  by 

Court  wesmyndefullofnothingbot  plea-  Lord  James    Stewart   on   the   15th  of 

sures  and  prodigallitic,  the  Bordcr[er]s  November ;  and  in  the  Register,  on  the 

brack  lowsc,  and  vexed  the  countric  ad-  12th  of  that  month,  is  preserved  a  copy 

jacent  with  rapine,  thift,  and  mui'ther ;  of  Instructions  to  be  used  by  him.     See 

Lord    James,    Lievtennant    since    the  Keith's  History,  vol.  ii.  pp.  104-107. 


1561. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


291 


at  that  Justice  Courto.  Biybes,  buddis,  nor  solisitatioun  saved 
not  the  gilty,  yf  he  myght  be  apprehended ;  and  thairfoir 
God  prospered  him  in  that  his  integritie. 

That  same  tyme  the  said  Lord  James  spack  the  Lord  Gray 
of  England  at  Kelso,  for  good  reull  to  be  keapt  upoun  boyth 
the  Bordouris,  and  agreed  in  all  thingis. 

Befoir  his  returnyng,!  the  Queyn  upoun  a  nycht  took  a  fray 
in  hir  bedd,  as  yf  horse  men  had  bein  in  the  close,  and  the 
Palace  had  bene  enclosed  about.  Whitther  it  proceaded  of  hir 
awin  womanlie  fantasye,  or  yf  men  pat  hir  in  fear,^  for  dis- 
pleasur  of  the  Erie  of  Arrane,  and  for  other  purposes,  as  for 
the  erecting  of  the  garde,  we  know  not.  But  the  fear  was  so 
great,  that  the  toun  was  called  to  the  watch.  Lordis  Robert 
of  Halyrudhous,^    and   Johne    of    Coldinghame^    keapt    the 


THEQUENl.S 
FIRST  FRAV 
IN   HAI.Y- 
EUPHOUaE. 


^  Tills  paragraph  is  very  different  in 
MSS.  M  and  L  4,  being  thus  amplified, 
in  the  style  of  David  Buchanan's  iu- 
ter^jolations  : — "  When  Lord  James  was 
absent,  the  Quene  tooke  gi-eater  libertie, 
for  shee  wes  not  content  with  the  seve- 
ritie  of  the  present  Government,  nor  the 
lioorishing  of  Religion,  so  that  some- 
tymes  speiches  would  eschape  her  which 
bewrayed  her  disposition  and  inclina- 
tion to  tyrannie.  Wheras  Kings  wont 
before  to  commit  thamselfs  to  the  trust 
of  the  Nobilitie,  shee  purposed  to  have 
a  guai'd  of  hyred  souldiours,  bot  could 
find  no  pretext,  saving  onlie  the  cus- 
tome  of  forraigne  Kings,  and  the  shaw 
of  magnificence.  Shee  consulted  with 
hir  bastax'd  brother  John,  an  ambitious 
man,  bot  not  so  grave  and  austere  as 
Lord  James.  He  resolved  to  obey  hir 
in  all  things,  and  therfor  wes  the  more 
deare  to  hir,  being  desirous  to  confound 
all  tilings.  She  consulteth  with  him 
bow  to  get  a  companie  of  hyred  soul- 
diers  about  her.  Therwas  a  tumult  or 
sturr  famed  as  though  the  Erie  of  Ar- 
rane had  enclosed  the  Palace  of  Haly- 
rudehous  round  about,  and  by  force  wold 


cary  the  Queue  to  his  Castcll  fourtene 
myles  from  thence.  This  invention  had 
some  likliehood  becaus  of  the  immode- 
rate love  he  bare  unto  hir,  and  of  her 
affection  estranged  from  him;  both 
which  war  not  unknowin  to  the  people. 
The  fray  was  so  great  that  the  Toune 
of  Edinburgh  wes  called  to  watch.  Ro- 
bert Lord  Halyrudhous,  and  John  Lord 
Coldingham  keeped  watch  by  course; 
skouts  wer  sent  fui-th,  and  seutrinells, 
and  wer  commanded  under  the  pane  of 
death  to  keep  their  stations.  They 
feared  wher  thev  was  no  feare.  After 
the  souldiers  had  skoured  the  fields  all 
night,  they  shew  thsmselfs  before  the 
Palace  gates,  some  offendit  at  them,  and 
others  jesting  at  the  sport.  Bot  the 
authors  of  this  invention,  howbeit  they 
knew  the  vulgar  people  did  not  beleve 
them,  yit  being  secure  that  no  man 
wold  controle  them  regarded  not  man's 
secreit  judgement." — Calderwood  has 
copied  this  passage  very  closely.  (Hist, 
vol  ii.  p.  158.) 

2  In  MS.  G,  "  in  fear  of  it." 

'  &  *  Two  natural  brothers  of  the 
Queen  :    see  page  271,  notes  2  and  3. 


294  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

watclie  by  course.  Scouttis  war  send  furtli,  and  centenallis 
war  commanded  under  the  pane  of  deatli  to  keap  tliair  sta- 
tionis.  And  yitt  tliai  feared  whair  tliair  was  no  fear  :  neathir 
yit  could  ever  any  appeirance  or  suspitioun  of  suclie  thingis 
be  tryed. 

Sclioii;  after  the  returnying  of  the  Lord  James,  thair  cam 
from  tlie  Queue  of  England,  Sir  Petir  Mewtess,!  with  commis- 
sioun  to  requyre  the  ratificatioun  of  the  Peace  made  at  Leyth. 
His  ansuer  was  2  evin  such  as  we  have  heard  befoir,  that  sche 
behoved  to  advise,  and  then  sche  should  send  ansuer. 

In  presence  of  hir  Counsall,  sche  keapt  hir  self  [very]  grave, 
(for  under  the  dule  wead,  sche  could  play  the  hypociyte  in 
full  perfectioun  ;)  but  how  soon  that  ever  hir  Frenche  fillockis, 
fydlaris,  and  otheris  of  that  band,  gatt  the  howse  allone,  thair 
mycht  be  scan  skipping  not  verry  cumlie  for  honest  wemen. 
Hir  commoun  talk  was  in  secreat,  sche  saw  nothing  in  Scot- 
land but  gravitie,  which  repugned  alltogetther  to  hir  nature, 
for  sche  Avas  brocht  up  in  joyusitie  ;  so  termed  sche  hir 
dansing,  and  other  thingis  thairto  belonging. 

The  Generall  Assemblie  of  the  Churche^  approched,  holdin 
in  December*  after  the  Quenis  anyvall ;  in  the  which  began 
the  reullaris  of  the  Coui-te  to  draw  tham  selfis  apart  from  the 
societie  of  thair  brethren,  and  began  to  sturr  and  grudge  that 
any  thing  should  be  consulted  upoun,  without  thair  ad\dses. 


1  Sir  Peter  Mewtas  was  sent  by  Queen  Inglis  Ambassadour,  ane  chene  of  gold 

Elizabeth  to  Scotland,  chiefly  to  evade  of  iij°  crownis  of  the  sone,   iiij"  lib." 

discussion    respecting    the   Succession  (£400.) 

to  the  throne,  although  ostensibly  to  re-  ^  In  MS.  G,  "  Her  answer  was." 
quest  that  the  Treaty  of  Edinburgh,  in  ^  In  MS.  G,  here  and  elsewhere, 
July  15G0,  should  be  ratified.  See  in  "Kirk;"  in  the  MS.  1566,  except  in  the 
Keith's  History,  vol.  ii.  pp.  132-loG,  the  later  portions,  it  is  usually  "  Church." 
letters  that  passed  between  Queen  Mary  *  The  Third  meeting  of  the  General 
and  Elizabeth,  after  Mewtas's  return  in  Assembly  was  held  m  December  1561 ; 
October  1561.  On  the  19th  of  that  but  no  notice  of  the  proceedings  is  re- 
month,  is  this  entry  in  the  Treasurer's  corded  in  the  Book  of  tlie  Kirk,  except 
Accounts  :  "  Item,  be  the  Quenis  Grace  the  Supplication  to  the  Queen,  which 
specialc  command  to  Sir  Peter  Mutus,  will  be  found  at  page  316. 


1561. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


295 


Maistcr  Jolinc  Woclc,i  wlio  bcfoir  had  scliawin  him  self  verray 
fervent  in  the  cans  of  God,  and  fordward  in  giveing  of  his 
counsall  in  all  doubtfull  materis,  planclie  refused  ever  to  assist 
the  Asserablie  agane,  whairof  many  did  wonder.  The  Cour- 
teouris  drew  unto  thame  some  of  the  Lordis,  and  wold  nott 
convene  with  tliair  brethren,  as  befoir  thai  war  accustomed, 
but  keapt  thame  in  the  Abbay.  The  principal!  Commission- 
aris  of  the  Churches,^  the  Superintendentis,  and  some  Minis- 
teris,  past  unto  thame,  whair  thai  war  convened  in  the  Ab- 
bottis  ludging  within  Halyrudhouse.  Boyth  the  partyis  be- 
gan to  oppin  thair  greaf  The  Lordis  complayned  that  the 
Ministeris  drew  the  gentilmen  into  secreat,  and  held  counsallis 
without  thair  knowledge.  The  Ministeris  denyed  that  thai 
had  done  any  thing  in  secreat,  or  otherwyse  than  the  Com- 
moun  Ordour  commanded  thame  ;  and  accused  the  Lordis  (the 
flatteraris  of  the  Queue  we  mean)  that  thai  keapt  not  the  Con- 
ventioun  with  thair  brethren,    considdering  that   thai   know 


DIVISIOUN 
BETWIXTHK 
LORDIS   AND 
THE  MINIS- 
TERIS. 


'  Mr  John  Wood,  son  of  Andrew  Wood 
of  Largo,  was  educated  for  the  church, 
and  took  his  degree  of  Master  of  Arts 
in  St.  Leonai-d's  College,  St.  Andrews, 
in  1536.  He  has  been  styled  Vicar  of 
Largo ;  and  is  said  to  have  accompanied 
the  Prior  of  St.  Andrews  to  France  in 
1548.  He  joined  the  Reformers,  and  at 
the  first  General  Assembly  in  December 
1560,  his  name  occurs  among  those  at 
St.  Andrews  who  were  considered  quali- 
fied for  "  ministring  and  teachuig." 
He  was  nominated  an  Extraordinai'y 
Lord  of  Session,  by  the  title  of  TuUi- 
davie,  9th  December  1562,  but  was  de- 
prived in  1565  ;  and  although  restored 
he  retained  only  a  temporary  possession 
of  his  seat  on  the  Bench.  When  his  pa- 
tron the  Earl  of  Murray  was  appointed 
Regent,  Wood  became  his  Secretary, 
and  was  employed  in  the  pi'oceedings 
against  Queen  Mary,  at  York,  in  1568, 
as  related  by  Sir  James  Melville,  who 


styles  him  "  a  great  ringleader."  In 
September  1568,  the  Treasurer  furnished 
Mr.  John  Wood  fyne  black  velvet,  and 
black  satin,  for  a  di-ess.  The  Regent,  it 
is  well  known,  was  assassinated  in 
January  1570,  and  Bishop  Lesley  in  his 
Negotiations  says,  "  That  within  a  few 
days  after  his  man  Mr.  John  Wood,  was 
killed  in  Fife,  by  the  Laird  of  Rires." 
The  cause  of  this  murder  is  nowhere 
stated,  but  it  took  place  on  the  15th  of 
April,  by  Arthiu*  Forbes  of  Reres,  (in 
the  parish  of  Kilconquhar,)  assisted  by 
his  son  Arthur,  and  Henry  Forrest ;  for 
which  the  latter  were  denounced  rebels, 
6th  February  1572-3.  (Pitcairn's  Cri- 
minal Trials,  vol.  i.  p.  40.)  From  the 
Treasurer's  Accounts  we  learn  that  on 
the  23d  September  1570,  "  the  Laird  of 
Reres  was  at  the  home,  (that  is,  de- 
nounced as  rebel,)  for  the  slauchter  of 
umquhile  Maister  Johne  Wood." 
MnMS.  G,  "of  the  Kirk," 


296  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

the  Ordoiir,  and  that  the  same  was  appointed  by  thair  awin 
advises,  as  the  Buke  of  Discipline,  siibscrivit  with  the  most 
part  of  thair  awin  handis,  wold  witness.  Some  began  to  deny 
that  ever  thai  knew  such  a  thing  as  the  Buke  of  Discipline ; 
and  called  also  in  doubt,  whitther  it  was  expedient  that  such 
Conventionis  should  be  or  not  ;  for  glaidlye  wold  the  Queue 
and  hir  Secreat  Counsall  have  had  all  assemblies  of  the  godly 
discharged. 

The  reassonyng  was  scharp  and  quick  on  eatlier  part.^  The 
Quenis  factioun  alledged,  that  it  was  suspitious  to  Princes  that 
subjectis  should  assemble  thame  selffis  and  keape  conventionis 
without  thair  knowledge.  It  was  ansuered,  That  without  know- 
ledge of  the  Prince,  the  Clmrche  did  nothing.  For  the  Prince 
perfytlie  understood,  that  within  this  Realme  thair  was  a  Re- 
formed Churche,  and  that  thai  had  thair  ordouris  and  appoint- 
ed tymes  of  conventioun  ;  and  so  without  knowledge  of  the 
Prince  thai  did  nothing.  "  Yea,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  the  Queue 
knew  and  knowest  it  weill  yneuch ;  but  the  questioun  is, 
Wlietther  that  the  Queue  allowis  such  Conventionis?"  It  was 
ansuered,  "  Yf  the  libertie  of  the  Churche  should  stand  2  upoun 
the  Quenis  allowance  or  dyssallowance,  we  are  assured  not  onlie 
to  lack  assemblies,  but  also  to  lack  the  publict  preaching  of 
the  Evangell."  That  affirmative  was  mocked,  and  the  contrarie 
affirmed.  "  Weill,  (said  the  other,)  tyme  will  try  the  treuth  ; 
but  to  my  formar  wordis,  this  will  I  add,  tack  from  us  the 
fredomc  of  Assemblies,  and  tack  from  us  the  Evangell ;  for 
without  Assemblies,  how  shall  good  ordour  and  unitie  in  doc- 
trine be  keapt  ?  It  is  not  to  be  supjiosed,  that  all  Ministeris 
shalbc  so  perfj^te,  but  that  thai  shall  nead  admonitioun,  als- 
weill  concern yng  maneris  as  doctrin,  as  it  may  be  that  some  be 
so  styff  necked  that  thai  will  not  admitt  the  admonitioun  of 
the  simple ;  as  also  it  may  be  that  fait  may  be  found  with  Mi- 
nisteris without  just  offence  committed:  and  yit  yf  ordour  be 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  on  e.vthev  sydc."  -  Jii  ISJS.  G,  "  !<turlc  or  sould  .stand." 


LEDINGTON 
APPONED 
HYM  TO  THE 


15()1.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  297 

not  tackeii  boytli  with  tlie  compleaner  and  the  personis  com- 
pleaned  upoun,  it  can  not  be  avoided,  but  that  many  grevousc 
oiFcnsGS  shall  aryse.  For  remeady  whairof,  of  necessitie  it  is, 
that  Generall  Assemblies  maun  be,  in  the  which  the  judge- 
ment and  the  gravitie  of  many  may  concur,  to  correct  or  to  re- 
presse  the  folyes  or  errouris  of  a  few."  Heirunto  consented 
tlie  most  parte,  alsweill  of  the  Nobilitie  as  of  the  Baronis,  and 
willed  the  reassonaris  for  the  parte  of  the  Quene  to  will  hir 
Grace,  yf  that  sclie  stood  in  any  suspitioun  of  any  thing  that 
Avas  to  be  entreated  in  thair  Assemblies,  that  it  wold  please 
hir  Grace  to  send  such  as  sche  wold  appoint  to  hear  whatso- 
ever was  proponed  or  reassoned. 

Heirafter  was  the  Buke  of  Discipline  proponed,  and  desyred 
to  have  been  ratified  by  the  Quenys  Majestic.  That  was  scrip- 
ped  at,  and  the  questioun  was  demanded,  "  How  many  of  those  ^"gp^p°^jjj, 
that  had  subscrived  that  Buke  wald  be  subject  unto  it  ? "  It 
was  answered,  "All  the  godly.''  "  Will  the  Duck?"  said  Leth- 
ingtoun.  "  Yf  he  will  nott,"  answered  the  Lord  Ochiltrie,!  "  I 
wold  that  he  war  scrapped  out,  not  only  of  that  book,  but  also 
out  of  our  nomber  and  cumpany :  For  to  what  purpoise  shall 
laubouris  be  tane  to  putt  the  Kirk  in  ordour,  and  to  what  end 
shall  men  subsorive,  and  then  never  mean  to  keap  wourd 
of  that  quhilk  thei  promeisse  ?"  Lethingtoun  answered,  "Many 
subscrived  thair  in  fide  parentum,  as  the  barnes  ar  baptized." 
One,  to  wit  Johne  Knox,2  answered,  "  Albeit  ye  think  that 
scoiff  propir,  yit  as  it  is  most  untreu,  so  is  it  most  improper. 
That  Buke  was  red  in  publict  audience,  and  by  the  space  of 
diverse  dayis  the  headis  thairof  war  reasoned,  as  all  that  hear 
sit  know  Weill  yneuche,  and  ye  your  self  can  nott  deny ;  so 
that  no  man  was  required  to  subscrive  that  whiche  he  under- 
stood not."    "  Stand  content,  (said  one,)  that  Buke  will  nott  be 


*  See  page  260,  note  19.  added  in    the  margin,    apparently   in 

'  The  words,  "  to  wit,  Johne  Knox,'       Knox's  own  hand.     In  MS.  L  4,  it  is 
interlined  in  the  MS.  156B,  are  likewise       "  Maister  Knox  answered." 


298  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

obteaned/'  "  Let  Grod  (said  tlie  other)  requyre  the  lack  whicli 
this  poore  Commoun-wealth  shall  have  of  the  thingis  thairin 
conteaned,  from  the  handis  of  such  as  stope  the  same." 

The  Baronis  perceaving  that  the  Buke  of  Discipline  was 
refused,  presented  unto  the  Counsall  certane  articles,  requiring 
Idolatrie  to  be  suj^pressed,  thair  Churches  to  be  planted  with 
treu  Ministeris,  and  some  certane  Provisioun  to  be  maid  for 
thame,  according  to  equitie  and  conscience ;  for  unto  that 
tyrae,  the  most  parte  of  the  Ministeris  had  lyved  upoun  the 
benevolence  of  men.  For  many  held  into  thair  awin  handis  l 
the  fructis  that  the  Bischoppis  and  otheris  of  that  sect  had 
befoir  abused ;  and  so  some  parte  was  bestowed  upoun  the 
Ministeris.  But  then  the  Bischoppis  began  to  grypp  agane  to 
that  which  most  injustlie  thei  called  thair  awin ;  for  the  Erie 
of  An-ane  was  discharged  of  Sanctandrois  and  Dunfermeling, 
whairwith  befoir,  be  verteu  of  a  factorie,  he  had  intromitted : 
and  so  war  many  otheris.  And  thairfoir  the  Barones  requyi'ed, 
that  ordour  mycht  be  tacken  for  thair  Ministeris,  or  ellis 
thei  wold  no  moir  obey  the  Bischoppis,  neather  yitt  suffer  any 
thing  to  be  lifted  up  to  thair  use  after  the  Quenis  aiTyvall, 
then  that  thei  did  befoir ;  for  thei  verrelie  supposed  that  the 
Quenys  Majestie  wold  keapt  promeisse  maid  unto  thame ; 
whiche  was,  nott  to  alter  thair  religioun,  whiche  could  nott 
remane  without  Ministeris,  and  Ministeris  could  nott  lyve 
without  provisioun:  and  thairfoir  thei  heartlie^  desyred  the 
Counsall  to  pro\dd  some  convenient  ordour  in  that  head. 

That  somewhat  moved  the  Quenys  flatteraris  ;  for  the  rode  of 
impietie  was  not  then  strenthened  in  liyr  and  thair  liandis. 
And  so  began  thei  to  practise  how  thei  should  pleise  the 
Queyn,  and  yit  seam  somewhat  to  satisfie  the  faythfull ; 
and  so  devised  thei,  that  the  Church  men  should  have  intro- 
missioun  with  the  Two  parte  of  thair  benefices,  and  that  the 

1  So  in  MS.  L  4.    MS.  G,  has  "  For  -  In  MS.  G,  '^  mo.st  hartely." 

many  had  into  thair  hands." 


1561. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


299 


Third  parte  l  should  be  lifted  up  by  suche  men  as  thairto 
should  be  appointed,  for  suche  uses,  as  in  these  subsequent 
Actis2  ar  more  fullie  expressed. 


ApUD  EdINBUKGH,  XXIJ  DECEMBRIfc 

[Sedekunt. 


Anno  lxj". 


Jacobus    Dux    de    Chattel- 

larault, 
Georgius  Comes  de  Huntlie, 
Archibaldus  Ergadie  Comes, 
Willelmus  Marescalle  Comes, 
Joannes  Atholie  Comes, 
Willelmus   Comes   de    Mont- 

ross, 
Jacobus  Comes  de  Mortoun, 
Alexander    Comes    de    Glen- 

carne, 


Jacobus   Commendatarius  St. 

Andree  et  Pittenweme, 
Joannes  Dns.  Erskin, 
Mag''-    Robertus    Richardsoun 

Thesaurarius, 
Mag-'-  Ja^^'-  Makgill  de  Nether 

Rankelour  Clericus  Registri, 
Joannes  Ballenden  de  Auch- 

noule  miles  Clericus  Justi- 

ciarie, 
Willelmus  Maitland  de  Leth- 


ingtoun  junior  Secretarius. 
Presentibus  etiam  Dominis  subscriptis  ratione  Conventionis, 
viz.  Joanne  Comite  de  Sutherland,  Georgio  Comite  de  Cathenes, 
Andrea  Comite  de  Rothes,  Joanne  Domino  de  Menteith, 
Joanne  Domino  Glammis,  Hugone  Domino  Somervell,  Roberto 
Domino  Boyd,  Joanne  Domino  Flemyng,  Georgio  Domino 
Sey  toun,  Joanne  Domino  Innermeth,  Alexandre  Domino  Hume, 
Davide  Domino  Drummond,  Andrea  Domino  Stewart  de  Vchil- 
tre,  Jacobo  Domino  Sancti  Joannis,  Joanne  Magistro  de 
Maxwell,  et  Jacobo  Dowglass  de  Drumlanrig,  milites,]  3 


1  In  MS.  L  4,  « that  the  Third  parte 
sould  be  lifted  up  for  the  sustentatioun 
of  Ministry  and  the  Quenis  use,  as  is  ex- 
pressed in  the  Acts  which  we  will  set 
down  in  theii"  owne  place." 

2  The  following  Acts  relating  to  the 
proposed  arrangements  for  supporting 
the    Ministry,    by    appropriating    the 


Thirds  of  Benefices,  have  been  collated 
with  the  Register  of  Privy  Council, 
which  has  furnished  the  Sederunts  of 
the  meetings,  and  some  slight  correc- 
tions. In  Knox,  the  first  Act  is  dated 
the  20th  instead  of  the  22d  December 
1561. 

^  See  page  309,  notes  1  and  2. 


300  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

The  saniyn  day,  forsamekle  as  the  Queiiis  Majestie,  be  the 
advise  of  the  Lordis  of  hir  Secreit  Counsall,  foirseaud  the 
eminent  truble  quhilk  appeirandlie  was  to  aryse  amangis  the 
lieges  of  hir  realme  for  materis  of  Religioun ;  to  evaid  the 
samyn,  and  to  stay  all  inconvenientis  that  may  follow  thair- 
upoun,!  intercommonit  with  ane  parte  of  the  Clergie  and  Estait 
Ecclesiasticall ;  with  wliome  then  reasonyng  being  had,  it  was 
thocht  good  and  expedient  be  hir  Hienes,  that  ane  generall 
Conventioun  should  be  appointed  the  xv.  day  of  December 
instant,  wliairto  the  rest  of  that  Estaite  mycht  have  repaired, 
and  be  the  ad\^se  of  the  haill,  ane  reassonable  overtoure  maid 
and  ordour  taken  for  staying  of  the  appearand  truble,  and 
quyetting  of  the  haill  countrey  :  Quhilk  Conventioun  being  be 
hir  Majestie  appointed,  and  syndrie  dayis  of  Counsale  heaped, 
and  the  said  Ecclesiasticall  Estaite  ofttymes  required,  that 
the  said  ordour  mycht  be  taken  and  overtoure  maid  for  staying 
of  truble  and  quyetting  of  the  countrey ;  last  of  all,  in  pre- 
sence of  the  Quenis  Majestie,  and  Lordis  of  Counsale  foirsaid, 
and  otheris  of  the  Nobilitie  of  this  Realme,  compeired  Johne 
Archbischopp  of  Sanctandrois,  Robert  Bischopp  of  Dunkel- 
den,  Patrik  Bischopp  of  Murray,  and  Henrie  Bischopp  of  Ross,2 
and  for  thame  selfis  respective  offered  to  the  Quenis  Grace,  to 
be  content  of  Three  partis  of  the  rentis  of  thair  benefices,  and 
the  Ferd  parte  thairof  to  be  employed^  as  hir  Grace  thocht 
expedient.  And  becaus  the  certantie  thairof  was  not  knawin, 
nor  yitt  what  sowmes  of  money  wald  sufficientlie  susteane  the 
Ministrie  and  Ministeris  of  Goddis  worde  within  this  Realme, 
nor  yit  how  mekle  Avas  necessar  to  supporte  the  Quenis  Ma- 
jestie abone  hir  awin  rentis  for  the  commoun   effairis  of  the 

1  In  Knox,  the  words  are,  "  to  stay  the  ray,  and  Henry  Sinclair,  Bishop  of 
saniyn,  and  to  evit  all  incommodities       Ross. 

that  mycht  thereupon  ensew."  ^  In  MS.  1566,  it  is,  "  to  be  content 

2  The  names  of  these  Prelates  were  of  the  Two  parts  of  the  rentis  of  thair 
John  Hamilton,  Archbishop  of  St.  An-  benefices,  and  the  Fourt  part,"  &c.  In 
drews,  Robert  Creichton,  Bishop  of  Dun-  MS.  G,  "  and  the  Thii-d  part  to  be 
keld,  Patrick  Hepburn,  Bishop  of  Mur-  employed." 


1561.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  301 

countrey  :  Thairfoir,  it  is  concluclit,  deccniit,  and  dcterminat 
be  the  Quenis  Grace  and  Lordis  of  Coiinsale  foirsaid,  and 
utlieris  of  the  Nobilitie  present,  that  gif  the  Ferd  parte ^  of  the 
fructes  of  the  haill  Benefices  ecclesiasticall  within  this  Realmc 
maybe  sufficient  to  susteane  the  Ministerie  throw  the  haill 
Realme,  and  supporte  the  Quenis  Majestie  to  interteany  and 
sett  fordwarte  the  commoun  effaires  of  the  countrey,  failzeing 
thairof,  the  Third  parte  of  the  saidis  fructis,  or  mair,  quhill  it 
be  found  sufficient  to  the  effect  foirsaid,  to  be  tacken  up  yearlie 
in  tyme  cuming,  quhill  ane  generalle  ordour  be  taken  thairin  ; 
saraekle  thairof  to  be  employed  to  the  Quenis  Majestie  for 
entertenying  and  setting  fordwarte  of  the  commoun  effaires  of 
the  countrey,  and  samekle  thairof  unto  the  Ministeris  and  sus- 
tentatioun  of  the  Ministerie,  as  may  reassonablie  susteane  the 
samin,  at  the  sycht  and  discretioun  of  the  Quenis  Majestie  and 
Counsale  foirsaid:  and  the  excrescens  and  superplus  to  be 
assigned  unto  the  auld  Possessouris.  And  to  that  effect  that 
the  rentis  and  yearlie  availl  of  the  haill  benefices  within  this 
Realme  may  be  clearlie  knawin  to  the  Quenis  Majestie  and 
Counsale  foirsaid,  It  is  statute  and  ordanit,  that  the  haill 
Rentallis  of  all  benefices  within  this  Realme  be  produced  befoir 
hir  Grace  and  Lordis  foirsaidis,  at  the  tymes  underwritten  ; 
That  is  to  say,  of  the  Benefices*  on  this  syde  of  the  Month,^  the 
xxiiij  day  of  Januar  nixttocum,  and  beyond  the  Month,  the 
tenth  of  Februar  next  thairefter.     And  ordanis  letteris  to  be 


1  The  words,  "  the  Ferd  parte,"  here,  rendered  "  on  this  side  of  the  Water," 

and  also  a  few  lines  above,  were  altered  or,   "  beyond  the  Water,"    a    rather 

in  theMS.  1566,  to  "the  ThrydeiDarte,''  vague  description.     The  pass  or  road 

but  again  corrected  in  the  margin  to  referred   to   led   from   Fettercairn   (in 

the  original  words.     MSS.  G,  and  L  4,  Kincardineshire)  to  Banchory,  on  the 

have  "  the  Fourt  parte."  north   side  of  the  Dee  (in  Aberdeen- 

*  This  name,  The  Mounth  or  Jlount,  shire;)    but  here  it  maj'  be  considered 

was   long    applied    to    designate    the  to  denote   the   mountain  range   itself, 

mountain  pass   in  the   Highlands,   in  usually  called  the  Grampian  Mountains, 

reachmg  the   North   of  Scotland.     In  which  extend  across  the  Island  from 

David  Buchanan's   editions  of  Knox's  Aberdeenshire  in  the  north-east  to  the 

History,  where  the  word  occurs  it  is  west  coast  in  Argyleshire. 


302  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

direct  to  officiaris  of  tlie  Quenis  scliirreffis  in  tliat  parte  to  pass, 
charge,  and  requyre,  all  and  sjndrie  Arclibisclioppis,  Bischoppis, 
Abbottis,  Commendatouris,  and  Priouris  of  tliis  Realme,  on 
this  syd  of  the  Mounth  personallie,  gif  thai  can  be  appre- 
hended, and  failzeing  thairof,  at  the  saidis  Archbischoppis, 
Bischoppis,  Abbottis,  Commendatouris,  and  Priouris  dwelling- 
places,  cathedrall  kirkis,  or  abbayis  ;  and  all  Deanis,  Sub- 
deanis,  Archdeanis,  Chantouris,  Subchanteris,  Provestis,  Per- 
sonis,  Vicaris,  and  other  beneficit  men  whatsomever,  thair 
Chalmerlanis  and  Factouris,  personallie  or  at  thair  dwelling- 
places,  or  at  thair  paroche  kirkis,  quhair  thai  suld  remane,  to 
exhibit  and  produce  befoir  the  Quenis  Majestic  and  Lordis 
foirsaidis,  the  said  xxiiij  day  of  Januar  nixttocum,  the  just 
and  treu  Rentalle  of  the  availle  and  rentis  of  thair  Benefices 
to  the  effect  foirsaid  ;  and  to  charge  the  Prelattis  and  utheris 
beneficit  men  on  the  yond  syd  of  the  Mounth  in  maner  respec- 
tive foirsaid,  to  [exhibite  and^]  produce  the  just  and  treu 
Rentale  of  thair  Benefices  befoir  the  Quenis  Majestic  and  Lordis 
foirsaidis  the  said  tent  day  of  Februar  nixttocum,  to  the  effect 
abone  rehersit,  "With  certificatioun  to  thame  that  failzeis,  the 
Quenis  grace  and  Counsale  will  proceid  heirin  as  accordis: 
And  sicklyk  to  charge  the  haill  Superintendentis,  Ministeris, 
Eldaris,  and  Deaconis  of  the  principall  townes  and  schyres  of 
this  Realme,  to  give  in  befoir  the  Quenis  Grace  and  Lordis  of 
Counsale  foirsaidis,  the  said  xxiiij  day  of  Januar  nixttocum, 
ane  formall  and  sufficient  I'oll  and  memoriall,  what  may  be 
sufficient  and  reasonable  to  susteane  the  Ministerie  and  hale 
Ministeris  of  this  Realme,  that  hir  Majestic  and  Lordis  of 
Counsale  foirsaidis  may  tak  ordour  thairintill  as  accordis :  And 
farther,  that  the  Quenis  Majestic  and  Lordis  of  Counsale  foir- 
saidis may  ryjilie  and  digestlie  wey  and  considder  what  neces- 
sarie  supporte  is  required  to  be  taken  yearlie  of  the  fructis  of 
the  saidis  Benefices  by  hir  Grace's  awin  yearlie  rent,  to  enter- 

^  The  words  enclosed  within  brackets  are  omitted  in  the  Register. 


1561.  THE   REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  303 

teany  and  sett  fordwart  the  commoun  effaires  of  tliis  Realme, 
agane  the  said  xxiilj  day  of  Januare  nixttocum,  tliat  tlicn  it 
may  be  proceided  in  the  said  mater,  all  parties  be  satisfied, 
and  the  haill  countrey  and  lieges  thairof  sett  in  quyetnesse. 

[The  samyn  day,^  forsamekle  as  the  wechtie  and  debateable 
caussis  standand  amangis  the  lieges  of  this  Realme,  quhilk 
micht  gif  occasioun  of  brek  thairof,  and  inquieting  of  the  hale 
estait  of  the  samyn,  for  eschewing  thairof  the  Qiienis  Majestie 
appointit  ane  Conventionn  of  the  Nobilitie  and  Clergie  of  hir 
Gracis  Realme  foirsaid,  to  compeir  the  xv  day  of  December 
instant :  quhilk  being  haldin,  and  divers  tymes  continewit, 
comperit,  Johne  Archbischop  of  Sanctandrois,  Robert  Bischop 
of  Dunkeld,  Patrik  Bischop  of  Murray,  and  Henrie  Bischoji  of 
Ross,2  and  offerit  as  efter  foUowis,  That  is  to  say,  that  thai 
being  restorit  to  thair  Benefices  and  privilegis,  and  ansuerit 
thairof,  offeris  to  the  Quenis  Majestie  for  the  space  of  ane  zeir, 
the  Ferd  part  of  the  rentis  of  thair  Benefices,  to  be  employit 
as  hir  Grace  thinkis  expedient :  And  this  thai  ofierit,  and 
na  forder.] 

Apud  Lynltthgw,  24  Januarij,  Anno  &c.  lxj°.3 
Forsamekle  as  the  Quenis  Majestie,  be  the  advise  of  the 
Lordis  of  hir  Secreat  Counsall,  directit  hir  Letteris  command- 
ing all  and  sindrie  Archbischoppis,  Bischoppis,  Abbottis, 
[Commendatouris,]  Friouris,  Deanis,  Archdeanis,  [Subdeanis, 
Chantouris,  Subchantouris,*]  Personis,  Vicaris,  and^  all  utheris 
beneficit  men,  thair  factouris,  fermoraris,  and  takkismen,  to 
compeir  befoir  hir  Hienes  and  Lordis  foirsaidis,  at  Edinburgh, 


1  Namely,  the  22d  December   1561.  ^  There  is  no  Sederunt  of  this  date 

This  portion  is  not  contained  in  Knox  :  given  in  the  Register, 

it  is  here  inserted,  as  it  serves  to  con-  *  The  words  enclosed  -within  brackets 

nect  the  preceding  Act  with  those  that  are  omitted  in  the  Register, 

follow.  '^  In  MS.  G,  the  words  after  "  Ab- 

-  See  page  300,  note  2.  bottis,"  are  omitted,  and  "  &c."  added. 


304  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

or  wliair  it  shall  happin  thame  to  be  for  tlie  tyme,  sa  many  as 
dwellis  upouii  tliis  syde  of  tlie  Month,  the  xxiiij  day  of  Januar 
instant  ;  and  thame  that  dwellis  beyond  the  Month,  the  tent 
day  of  Februar  nixttocum  ;  that  the  just  availl  of  thair  Bene- 
fices may  be  knawin,  sua  that  thairafter  hir  Grace  mycht  tack 
ordour  for  the  susteanyng  of  the  Ministeris,  of  the  Pure,^  and 
publict  busynes  of  the  Realmc :  And  becaus  the  Quenis  Ma- 
jestie  is  presentlie  occupyed  in  other  effairis,  and  may  nocht 
attend  hir  self  upoun  the  ressait  of  the  saidis  Rentallis,  Thair- 
foir  hir  Hienes  hes  gevin  and  granted,  and  be  thir  presentis 
gevis,  and  grantis,  full  power  and  commissioun  to  Maister 
James  Makgill  of  Rankeillour  Neather  Clerk  of  Registre,  Schir 
Johne  Bellenden  of  Achinowle  knycht  Justice  Clerk,  Thesaurar, 
Secretare,  Advocat,  and  Laird  of  Pittarrow,2  To  call  befoir 
thame  within  the  bm-gh  of  Edinburgh,  All  and  sindrie  Pre- 
lattis  and  Beneficit  men,  quha  are  charged  be  vertew  of  the 
saidis  letteris,  and  now  being  in  Edinburgh,  or  that  heirafter 
shall  happin  to  repair  thairto,  thair  factouris  and  fennoraris, 
and  thar  inquyre  of  thame  the  Rentallis  of  thair  benefices,  and 
resave  the  samyn  fra  thame,  to  the  eficct  foirsaid  :  And  sic- 
lyke  that  the  saidis  Commissionaris  caus  warne  all  Superinten- 
dentis,  [Ministeris,^]  Eldaris,  and  Deaconis,  to  geve  unto  thame 
the  names  of  the  haill  Ministeris  of  this  Realme,  that  the  just 
calculatioun  being  considdered  and  maid  be  the  saidis  Com- 
missionaris, of  the  availl  of  the  saidis  Benefices,  thai  may 
reporte  the  samyn  to  the  Quenis  Majestic,  that  hir  Hienes 
may  tak  ordour  thairin ;  according  to  the  [just^]  tennour  of 
the  first  Ordinance  maid  thairupon. 


'  In  Knox  it  is,  "  the  Ministerie  of  the  tary ;  Mr.  John  Spens  of  Condie,  Queen's 

Kirk."  Advocate,  and  Sir  John  Wishart  of  Pit- 

*  These  officials,  who  are  not  named,  tarrow,  Comptroller. 

■were  Mr.  Robert  Richardson,  Prior  of  *  Omitted  in  the  Register. 

St.  ilary's  Isle,   Treasurer ;     William  *  Omitted  in  the  Register. 
Maitland,  Younger  of  Lethingt^n,  Secre- 


].-if;2.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  305 

Apud  Edinburgh,  xij"  Februarij,  Anno  &c.  lxj". 
[Sederunt. 
Georg-ius  Comes  de  Huntlie,       Alexander  Comes  de  Glencarne, 
Areliibaldus  Comes  Ergadie,       Jacobus  Comes  de  Mortoun, 
Jacobus  Comes  de  Mar,  Joannes  Dns.  Erskin, 

Willelmus  Marescalli  Comes,      Jo^l  Balleuden  de  Auclinowle 
Joannes  Atliolie  Comes,  miles  Clericus  Justiciarie.] 

The  quhilk  day,  forsamekle  as  be  Statute  and  Ordinance 
maid  be  the  Quenis  Majestie  and  Lordis  of  Secreit  Coun- 
sale,  and  her  Hienes  letteris  direct  thairupoun,  All  and 
sindrie  Archbischoppis,  [Bischoppis,]!  Abbottis,  Commenda- 
touris,  Priouris,  Archdeanis,  Deanis,  Subdeanis,  Chant ouris, 
Subchantouris,  Provestis,  Personis,  Vicaris,  and  utheris  bene- 
ficit  men  of  this  Realme,  war  charged  to  exhibite  and  produce 
the  Rentallis  of  thair  benefices  befoir  hir  Majestie  and  Lordis 
foirsaids,  in  maner  following :  That  is  to  say,  the  saidis  Bene- 
ficit  men,  [dwelling]  on  this  syde  of  the  Month,  the  xxiiij  dav 
of  Januar  last  bypast,  and  on  the  uther  syd  of  the  Month,  the 
tent  of  Febmar  instant,  to  that  eifect  that  ordour  mycht  be 
takin  thairin  conforme  to  the  said  Ordinance ;  with  certifica- 
tioun  to  thame,  and  thai  failzeit,  the  Quenis  Majestie  and 
Counsale  [foirsaid]  wald  tak  ordour  thairin,  as  the  samyn  Or- 
dinance beiris :  Notwithstanding-  the  quhilk,  and  that  the 
Quenis  Majestie  and  Counsale,  and  utheris  appointed  be  hir 
for  resaving  of  the  saidis  Rentalles,  hes  continewallie,  sen 
the  said  xxiiij  day  of  Januare,  awaitted  upoun  the  resa\'ing 
thairof ;  yit  ane  verray  small  nomber  of  thame  hes  produced 
the  said  Rentalles,  contepmnand  thairthrow  nocht  onlie  hir 
Grace's  Ordinance  and  Proclamatioun  foirsaid,  but  als  hir  self 
and  hir  authoritie,   like  as  thai  war  princes  and  nocht  sub- 

'  The  words  enclosed  mthin  brackets      the  names  after  "  Abbots,"  as  in  the 
arc  not  in  the  Register ;  and  in  MS.  G,       preceding  Act,  are  omitted. 
VOL.  II.  U 


306  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

jectis,  expresse  aganis  reassone,  equitie,  and  justice :  For  re- 
meid  quhairof,  the  Quenis  Majestie  ordanis,  be  advise  of  tlie 
Lordis  of  hir  Secreit  Counsale,  that  Factouris  and  Clialmer- 
lanis  be  appointed  to  intromett,  gaddir,  uplift,  and  receave  to 
our  Soverane  Ladeis  use,  all  and  sindrie  mailles,  fermes, 
teyndis,  rentis,  proventis,  emolumentis,  canis,  profFeittis,  and 
dewities  of  wbatsumevir  Benefices,  whairof  the  Rentallis  ar 
nocht  produced,  conforme  to  the  said  Ordinance  :  And  gif  ony 
Rentalle  ellis  produced  bearis  not  the  just  availl,  but  is  fraude- 
fullie  maid,  to  intromett  and  uptak  samekle  of  the  frutis  and 
profieittis  of  the  saidis  benefices  as  ar  omitted  furth  of  the 
saidis  Rentalle;  and  the  ingevaris  of  the  Rentalles,  and  posses- 
souris  of  the  benefices  thairof,  shall  never  haif  actioun  to  craif, 
clame,  or  ressaif  fra  the  tennantis  and  possessouris,  farther 
nor  is  contained  in  the  saidis  Rentallis  ellis  produced  be 
thame :  and  the  saids  tennandis  and  possessouris  shall  na  w'yis 
be  haldin  to  pay  ony  mair  for  thair  rowmes  to  the  possessouris 
of  the  saidis  benefices  and  ingevaris  of  the  saidis  Rentalles, 
nor  is  conteyned  in  the  samyn  rentallis  ellis  produced,  as  said 
is  :  And  that  the  saidis  Factouris  and  Chalmerlanis  to  be  ap- 
pointed be  the  Quenis  Majestie,  shall  have  sufficient  power  to 
intromett  and  uptak  the  fructis  and  profieittis  foirsaidis,  sic- 
lyke  as  gif  speciall  letteris  of  Factorie  and  Chalmerlanrie 
wer  granted  to  thame  thairupoun.  And  ordanis  the  Lordis 
of  Sessioun  to  direct  furth  letteris  at  the  said  Factouris 
and  Chalmerlanis  instance,  owther  horning  or  poinding,  as 
shalbe  thocht  expedient,  for  causing  of  thame  to  be  ansuered 
of  the  fructis  of  the  saidis  benefices,  to  be  furthcumand  to 
the  Quenis  Majesties  behuif,  whill  forther  ordour  be  tacken 
thairintill. 


15«2.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  307 

Apud  Edinburgh,  xv*"  Februartj,  Anno  &c.  lxj". 
[Sederunt. 
Georgius  Comes  de  Huntlie,         Joannes  Atholie  Comes, 
Archibaldus  Ergadie  Comes,        Jacobus  Comes  de  Mortoun, 
Jacobus  Comes  de  Mar,  Willelmus  Marescalli  Comes.] 

The  quliilk  day,  forsamekle  as  the  Quenis  Majestie,  be  the 
advise  of  the  Lordis  of  hir  Secreit  Counsale,  and  otheris  di- 
verse of  the  Nobilitie  had  of  befoir,  upoun  the  xxij  day  of 
December  last  bypast,  ordanit,  that  gif  the  Fourt  parte  of  the 
fructis  and  rentis  of  all  the  Benefices  within  this  Realme  war 
nocht  sufficient  for  the  support  of  hir  Majestie,  and  other  par- 
ticulare  charges  underwrittin,  necessar  to  be  borne  for  the 
tranquillitie"^  of  the  country ;  then  the  Thrid  of  the  saidis 
fructis,  mair  or  less,  should  be  takin  up,  to  the  effectis  foir- 
saidis :  And  attour  ordanit  letteris  to  be  direct,  chargeing  all 
and  sindrie  beneficit  men,  on  this  syd  of  the  Month,  to  pro- 
duce thair  Rentallis  upoun  the  xxiiij  day  of  Januar  last  bypast; 
and  the  tent  day  of  Februar  instant,  was  prefixt  be  the 
saidis  letteris,  for  inbringing  of  all  rentallis  of  the  benefices 
beyond  the  Month  ;  with  certificatioun,  that  quha  produced 
nott  the  saidis  Rentallis^  at  the  dayis  foirsaidis  respective,  the 
Quenis  Majestie  and  hir  Counsale  wald  provide  remeid :  Ac- 
cording to  the  quhilk  certificatioun,  hir  Hienes,  with  avyse  of 
hir  Counsale  foirsaid,  lies  ordanit,  that  thai  quha  lies  nocht 
produced  thair  rentallis,  haill  and  full  intromissioun  shalbe 
had  of  thair  fructis,  be  thame  whom  hir  Majestie  shall  direct 
thairto ;  and  quha  hes  nocht  gevin  in  thair  just  Rentallis, 
quhatsumever  part  omitted  in  thair  saidis  rentallis  shalbe  in- 
tromettit  with  in  lyke  maner  :  And  further,  having  consulted 
ryplie  and  diligentlie  avysit  upoun  the  commoun  eifairis  and 

» In  MS.  G,  "  for  the  weill."  «  In  MS.  G,  "  that  they  qulm  hes  not 

produced  thair  Rentales." 


308  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

necessities  concernyng  the  Qucnis  Majestic,  and  charges  to  be 
borne,  for  the  commoun  weill  of  the  Realme,  and  sustentatioun 
of  the  Preachearis  and  Readaris,  conforme  to  the  said  Ordi- 
nance maid  thairupoun  of  befoir,  hes  fundin  and  declaired  the 
liaill  Thrid  partis  of  all  Benefices  within  this  Realme,  of  the 
quhilkis  the  rentallis  ar  produced,  to  be  taken  up  be  the  per- 
son or  personis  to  be  nominat  be  hir  Majestic,  and  to  begyn 
upoun  this  last  crope  of  the  year  of  God  J"  V,  and  threscoir 
ane  yearis,  the  samyn  to  be  employed  to  the  effect  foirsaid  : 
togitther  with  the  haill  fructis  of  the  benefices  whairof  the 
Rentallis  ar  nocht  produced  ;  and  alsua  of  samcklc  as  is  omit- 
ted in  the  rentallis  produced  :  And  that  ordour  be  directit  be 
the  Qucnis  Majestic,  to  the  Lordis  of  Sessioun,  that  the  auld 
Possessouris  may  be  ansuered  of  the  remanent  fructis  of  the 
saidis  benefices  ;  providing  that  the  Thrid  part  foirsaid  be  full 
and  haill  takin  up,  be  the  personis  to  be  deput  to  the  up- 
taking  thairof :  And  this  ordoure  to  continew  and  stand,  ay 
and  whill  further  ordouris  be  takin  be  the  Qucnis  Majestic, 
with  advyse  of  hir  Estaitis.  Mairovcr  hir  Hiencs,  be  the  advyse 
of  hir  Counsale  foirsaid,  hes  statut  and  ordanit  that  all  an- 
nuellis,  mailles,  and  dewities  within  free  Burro  wis,  or  utheris 
townis  of  this  Realme,  alsweill  pertenyng  to  Chapellanreis, 
Prcbcndarijs,  as  to  Frciris,  togitther  with  the  rentis  of  the 
Frciris  landis,  quhaircver  thai  be,  setting  and  disponing  thair- 
upoun, be  intrometted  with,  and  takin  up  be  sik  as  hir  Grace 
shall  depute  thairto ;  for  employing  of  the  same  be  hir  Hicnes, 
to  Hospitalitcis,  Scholcs,  and  utheris  godlie  uses,  as  shall  seme 
best  to  hir  Hicnes,  be  the  advise  of  hir  Counsale  :  And  knaw- 
ing,  that  nathing  is  mair  commodious  for  the  said  Hospitalitie, 
nor  the  places  of  Frciris  as  [ar]  yitt  standand  undemolissed ; 
as  als  to  the  intcrtenyng  of  Scholcs,  Colleges,  and  utheris 
uses  foirsaidis,  Ordanis  the  Provest  and  Baillies  of  Abirdene, 
Elgin  in  Murray,  Inncrness,  Glasgow,  and  utheris  Burrowis  of 
this  Realme,   quhair  the  samyn  ar  nocht  demolished,  to  in- 


1562. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


309 


tcrtcny  and  upliald  the  saidis  Frciris  places  standand  in  the 
saidis  Townis,  iipoun  tlie  comnioun  gudis  thairof,  and  to  use 
the  samyn  to  the  Commoun-weall  and  service  of  the  saidis 
Townis,  ay  and  quhill  the  Quenis  Majestic  be  farther  advysed, 
and  tack  finall  ordour  in  sik  thingis,  nochtwithstanding  [of] 
ony  other  gift,  titill,  or  interesse,  gevin  to  quhatsumevcr  pcr- 
sonis  of  the  saidis  places,  with  thair  yardis,  orchardis,  and 
pertincntis,  be  our  Sovcrane  Lady  as  of  befoir. 


The  names  of  the  Nobiliti 
the  maiking  of  the  foirsaidis 

James  Duk  of  Chattelarault, 
Greorge  Erie  Huntlye, 
Archibald  Erie  Ergyle, 
Williame  Erie  Merschell, 
Johne  Erie  Atholl, 
Williame  Erie  Montrose, 
James  Erie  Mortoun, 
Alex''.  Erie  of  Glencarne, 


c  and  Lordis  that  war  present  at 
Actis  ^  heirefter  followis  : — 

James  Commendator  of  Sanct 
androis  and  Pettinweme, 

Johne  Lord  Erskyne, 

Johne   Ballendyne    of  Auch- 
nowU  knyglit  Justice  Clerk, 

The  Thesaurar, 

The  Cleark  of  Registre,    and 

The  Secretar.2 


After  the  first  Act,^  the  Erie  of  Huntley  said,  jestinglie. 
Good  day,  my  Lordis  of  the  Twa  parte." 


1  It  will  be  seen  at  page  299,  that 
tills  list  corresponds  with  the  Sederunt 
of  the  Privy  Council  on  the  22d  De- 
cember 1501. 

2  In  MS.  1566,  the  above  list  is  re- 
peated in  the  following  paragraph,  the 
transcriber  having  overlooked  its  being 
inserted  in  the  previous  page  of  the  MS. 
The  only  difference  is  the  addition  of  the 
Comptroller's  name. 

"  The  Lordis  of  Secreat  Counsall  that 
war  present  at  vetting  and  maildng  of 
these  foirsaid  Actis,  war  James  Duck  of 
Cliattellarault,  George  Erie  of  Huntley, 
Arcliibald  Erie  of  Ergyle,  William  Erie 
Merchell,  John  Erie  Atholl,  William  Erie 


Montrose,  James  Erie  Mortoun,  Alex- 
ander Erie  of  Glencarne,  James  Com- 
mendatar  of  Sanctandrois,  Johne  Lord 
Erskin,  the  Thesaurar,  the  Cleark  of 
Registre,  Jvistice  Cleark,  Secreatarie, 
and  ComptroUar." 

The  paragraph  is  also  repeated  in 
MS.  A ;  but  it  is  omitted  in  MS.  G. 

3  It  may  here  be  added,  that  the 
Register  of  the  Privy  Council  contains 
another  long  minute  of  a  meeting  held 
at  Edinburgh,  on  the  last  of  February 
1561-2,  relatmg  to  the  Thii-ds  of  Bene- 
fices. The  Sederimt  at  this  meeting: 
George  Earl  of  Himtley,  James  Earl 
of  Mortoun,  Archibald  Earl  of  Argyle. 


HIS  JUDG 

M.'CSTOFTH 

THRIDDIS. 


310  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

The  lioill  Rentallis  being  gathered,  the  sowme  of  the 
Thrid,  according  to  thair  awin  calculatioun,  was  found  to 
extend  to  ....  .^ 

The  Ministeris,  evin  in  the  hegynnyng,  in  publict  Sermonis 
opponed  thame  selves  to  suche  corruptioun,  for  thei  foirsaw 
the  purpose  of  the  Devill,  and  clearlie  understood  the  butt 
whairat  the  Quene  and  hir  flatteraris  schot ;  and  so  in  the 
joHNEKNox  stoolle  of  Edinburgh,  Johne  Knox  said,  "  Weill,  yf  the  end  of 
E  this  ordour,  pretended  to  be  tacken  for  sustentatioun  of  the 
Ministeris,  be  happy,  ray  judgement  failleth  me  ;  for  I  am  as- 
sured that  the  Spreit  of  God  is  nott  the  auctor  of  it ;  for,  first, 
I  see  Twa  partis  freely  gevin  to  the  Devill,  and  the  Thrid  maun 
be  derided  betwix  God  and  the  Devill :  Weill,  bear  witnes  to 
me,  that  this  day  I  say  it,  or  it  be  long  the  De\all  shall  have 
Three  partis  of  the  Thrid;  and  judge  you  then,  what  Goddis  por- 
tioun  shalbe."  This  was  ane  unsaverie  saying  in  the  earis  of 
many.  Some  eschamed  nott  to  affinne,  "  The  Ministeris  being 
susteaned,  the  Quene  Avill  nott  gett  at  the  yearis  end  to  by 
hir  a  pair  of  new  schoes."  And  this  was  Secreatarie  Lething- 
toun. 

Thair  war  appointed  to  modifie  the  Ministeris  stipendis,^ 
the  Erles  Ergyle,  Murray,  and  Mortoun,  Lethingtoun,  the 
Justice  Cleark,  and  Cleark  of  Registrie.  The  Laird  of  Pit- 
tarro  was  appointed  to  pay  the  Ministeris  stipendis,  according 
to  thair  modificatioun.  Wlio  wold  have  thought,  that  when 
Joseph  reulled  Egypt,  that  his  brethren  should  have  travailled 
for  vittallis,  and  have  returned  with  empty  seckis  unto  thair 
families  ?     Men  wold  rather  have  thought  that  Pharao's  pose, 

■William   Earl   Mareschal,    and   James  liverance  of  the  Lords  of  Session,  dated 

Earl  of  Mar.  after  the  1  st  of  March." 

The  Council  directed  Letters  of  Pro-  *  In  all  the  copies  of  Knox,  the  sum 

clamation  to  be   issued,  ordaining  the  is  left  blank. 

fruits    of    benefices    to    remain    unde-  <>  Among  the  Public  Records,   there 

livered  to   the  old  possessors,  or  their  are  several  Tolumcs  of  Accounts  of  the 

collectors,    "  unto    the  tyme    thai  be  Collectors  General  of  the  Thirds  of  Be- 

charged  of  new  be  lettei's  past  be  de-  nefices,  commencing  in  the  year  1561 . 


UF,  NOTTED. 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  311 

treasure,  and  garnallis  should  have  bene  diminished,  or  that 
the  housliokl  of  Jacob  should  stand  in  danger  to  steiTe  for 
hungar. 

But  so  busy  and  circumsj)ect  war  the  Modificatouris,  (be- 
caus  it  was  a  new  office,  the  terme  must  also  be  new,)  that 
the  Ministeris  should  nott  be  ower  wantoun,  that  ane  hund- 
retli  markis  was  sufficient  to  a  singill  man,  being  a  commoun 
minister.  Thre  hundreth  markis  Avas  the  hiest  that  was  ap- 
pointed to  any,  except  unto  the  Superintendentis,  and  unto  a 
few  otheris.  Schortlie,  whitther  it  was  the  nygartnesse  of 
thair  awin  heartis,  or  the  cayre  that  thei  had  to  enryche  the 
Quene,  we  know  nott  ;  but  the  poor  Ministeris,  Readaris,  and 
Exhortaris  cryed  out  to  the  heavin,  (as  thair  complaintis  in  all 
Assemblies  do  witnesse.)  that  neather  war  thei  able  to  lyve 
upoun  the  stipendis  appointed,  neather  could  thei  gett  pay- 
ment of  that  small  thing  that  was  appointed.  So  fayne  wold 
the  Comptrollare  have  played  the  goode  vallett,!  and  have 
satisfyed  the  Quene,  or  ellis  his  awin  proffeitt  in  everie  point, 
that  he  gatt  this  dicton  and  proverbe,  "  The  good  Laird  of  ^.^^^j 
Pittarro^  was  ane  earnest  professor  of  Christ;  but  the  mekle 
Devill  receave  the  Comptrollar,  for  he  and  his  Collectouris  ar 
become  gready  fectouris.''  3 

To  put  ane  end  to  this  unj)leasing  mater :  when  the  Brethren 
compleaned  of  thair  povertie,  it  was  disdanfullie  ansuered  of 
some,  "Thair  ar  many  Lordis  have  not  so  much  to  spend." 
When  men  did  reassone  that  the  vocatioun  of  Ministeris  craved 

1  In  MS.  L  3,  this  word  is  left  blank.  Murray  of  Tullibardine,  id  1563-4.  Upon 
*  John  Wishart,  Laird  of  Pittarrow  in  occasion  of  the  marriage  of  Lord  James, 
Forfarshire,  son  of  Sir  James  Wishart,  Earl  of  Murray,  (see  notes  to  page 
Justice  Clerk,  was  an  early  and  active  314,)  Wishart  was  one  of  ten  gentle- 
supporter  of  the  Reformation.  At  the  men  who  had  the  honom-  of  Knighthood 
Parliament  in  August  1560,  he  was  one  conferred.  He  was  advanced  to  be  an 
of  the  number  selected  for  the  govern-  Extraordinary  Lord  of  Session,  19th  No- 
ment  of  the  State;  and  some  time  after  vember  1567,  and  accompanied  the  Re- 
Queen  Mary's  arrival  in  Scotland,  he  gent  Mm-ray  to  York  in  the  following 
was  appointed  Comptroller,  in  which  year.  He  died  25th  September  1576. 
office  he  was  succeeded  by  Sir  William  *  In  MS.  G,  "  gredie  Fectoui-s." 


312  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

of  thame  bookis,  quyetnesse,  studye,  and  travell,  to  cdifye  the 
Kirk  of  Jesus  Clirist,  when  that  many  Lairdis  war  waitting 
upoun  thair  worldly  busyness  ;  and  thairfoir,  that  the  stipendis 
of  Ministeris,  who  had  none  other  industrye,  but  to  lyve 
upoun  that  which  was  appointed,  aught  nott  to  be  modifyed 
according  to  the  ly^dngis  of^  commoun  men,  who  mycht,  and 
did  daily  augment  thair  rentis  by  some  other  Industrie.  "Wlien 
suche  reassonis  war  laid  befoir  thame,  thei  gat  none  other  an- 
suer,  but  "  The  Queue  can  spair  no  greattar  soumes."  Oft  was 
it  ciyed  into  thair  earis,  "  0  happy  servandis  of  the  Devill, 
and  miserable  servandis  of  Jesus  Christ ;  yf  that  after  this 
lyef  thair  war  nott  hell  and  heavin,"  For  to  the  sen^andis 
of  the  devill,  to  your  dum  dogges  and  horned  bischoppis, 
to  one  of  those  idill  bellies  (I  say)  ten  thousand  was  nott 
yneuch;  but  to  the  servandis  of  Christ  that  painefullie 
preache  his  evangell,  a  thousand  pound ;  how  can  that  be 
susteaned  ? 

One  day,  in  reassoning  of  this  mater,  the  Secretar  burst  out 
in  a  pece  of  his  cholere,  and  said,  "  The  Ministeris  have  this 
much  payed  unto  thame  by  year,  and  who  yitt  ever  bad  the 
Queyn  '  grand-mercies'  for  it  ?  Was  thair  ever  a  Minister  that 
gave  thankis  to  God  for  hir  Majesties  liberalitie  towards 
thame  V  One  smyled  and  ansuered,  "  Assuredlye,  I  think, 
that  such  as  receave  any  thing  gratis  of  the  Queue,  are  un- 
thankfull  yf  thei  acknowledge  it  not,  boyth  in  heart  and 
mouth.  But  whitther  that  the  Ministeris  be  of  that  rank  or 
not,  I  greatlie  doubt.  Gratis,  I  am  assured,  thei  receave  no- 
thing ;  and  whitther  thai  receave  any  thing  at  all  fra  the 
Queue,  wyese  men  may  reassone.  I  am  assured  that  neather 
Thrid  nor  Twa  part  ever  ai:>perteaned  to  any  of  hir  predeces- 
souris  within  this  Realm e  these  thousand  yearis  bypast, 
neather  yitt  lies  the  Queue  bettir  title  to  that  whiclie  sche 
usurpes,  be  it  geving  to  otheris,  or  in  tacken  to  hir  self,  then 

*  In  MS.  G,  "  the  living  of  uthcr." — MS.  L  4,  coiTespontls  with  the  text. 


15G2.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  313 

suclic  as  crucifyed  Christ  Jesus  had  to  devide  his  garracntis 
among-es  thame.  And  yf  the  treuth  may  be  spoken,  sche  hes 
nott  so  good  titill  as  thai  had  ;  for  such  spoyle  use  to  be  the 
reward  of  such  men  :  And  in  that  point  these  soldiouris  war 
more  gentle  than  the  Quene  and  hir  flatteraris,  for  thai  parted 
not  the  garmentis  of  our  Maister  till  that  he  him  self  was  hung 
upoun  the  croce  ;  but  sche  and  her  flatteraris  do  part  the 
spoyle,  whill  as  poore  Christ  is  yet  preaching  amangis  you.  But 
the  wisdome  of  our  God  tackis  tryall  of  us  by  this  meane, 
knowing  weall  yneucli  what  sche  and  hir  factioun  hes  purposed 
to  do.  Lett  the  Papistis,  who  have  the  Twa  partis,  some  that 
have  thair  Thriddis  free,  and  some  that  have  gotten  Abbacies 
and  few  landis,  thank  the  Quene,  and  syng,  Placebo  Domince. 
The  poore  preachearis  will  not  yit  flatter,  for  feading  of  thair 
bellye."  Tliese  wordis  war  judged  proud  and  intollerable,  and 
engendered  no  small  displeasur  to  the  speakar. 

This  we  put  in  memorie,  that  the  posteriteis  to  cum  may 
know  that  God  ones  maid  his  treuth  to  triumph ;  but  becaus 
that  some  of  oure  selfis  delyted  more  in  darknes  than  in  lyght,^ 
God  hath  restreaned  our  fredome,  and  putt  the  hoill  body  in 
bondage.  Yea,  the  greatest  flatteraris  have  not  eschaiped  so 
free  as  thai  sujjposed ;  yea,  the  latter  plagues  appear  yit  to 
be  worse  than  the  first.  "  Be  mercyfuU  to  us,  0  Lord,  and 
entreat  us  nott  according  to  our  deservingis  ;  but  look  thou  to 
the  equitie  of  the  cause  which  thou  hast  put  into  our  handis, 
and  sufter  not  iniquitie  to  oppresse  thy  treuth,  for  Thy  awin 
nameis  saik,  0  Lord." 

In  this  meantyme,  to  wit,  in  Februar,  the  year  of  God  J'" 

*  Randolph  in  his  letter  to  Cecil,  7th  (juiscd  and  apparelled,  the  one  half  like 

December  15G1,  furnishes  a  remarkable  women,    the  other   like   strangers,    in 

instance  of  profanity  at  this  time.    Re-  strange  masking  garments.     The  Mar- 

ferring  to  the  Marquis  d'  Elbeiif,    he  quis   that  day  did  very  well;    but  the 

says,  "  We  fell  in  talk  of  the  pastimes  -women,  whose  part  the  Lord  Robert  did 

that  were  the  Svmday  before,  where  the  sustain,  won  the  rintj.     The  Queen  her- 

Lord  Robert,  the  Lord  John,  and  others  self  beheld  it,  and  as  many  others  as 

rang  at  the  ring,  six  against  six,  din-  listed." 


314 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


MAERIAGE 
OFTHEEELE 
OF  MARE.  5 


V  threscoir  ane,l  was  Lord  James  first  maid  Erie  of  Marr,2 
and  then  marjed  upoun  Agnes  Keytli,  dowgliter  to  the  Erie 
Merschcll.  The  marriage  was  publict  in  the  Church  of  Edin- 
burgh.^ In  the  marriage  thai  boyth  gat  ane  admonitioun  to 
behave  thame  selves  moderatlie  in  all  thingis  ;  "  For,  (said  the 
preacliear^  to  him,)  unto  tliis  day  the  Kirk  of  God  hath  re- 
ceaved  confort  by  you,  and  by  your  laubouris  ;  in  the  which,  yf 
heirafter  ye  shalbe  found  fayntar  then  that  ye  war  befoir,  it 
wilbe  said  that  your  Wyeff  hath  changed  your  nature."  The 
greatness  of  tlie  bancquett,  and  the  vanitie  used  thairat,  offend- 
ed many  godly.  Thair  began  the  masking,  which  from  year  to 
year  hath  continewed  since.  Maister  Randolph,  agent  for  the 
Queue  of  England,  was  then,  and  sometyme  after,  in  no  small 
conceat  with  our  Queue ;  for  his  Maistres  saik,  she  drank  ^  to 


'  That  is,  1561-2.  The  Earldom  of 
Murray  was  first  taken  from  the  Earl 
of  Huntly,  and  granted  to  Lord  James 
Stewart,  by  a  charter,  dated  30th  Jan- 
uary 1561-2.  On  the  7th  of  February 
following,  the  Earldom  of  Mar  being  con- 
fei-red  on  liini,  he  publicly  assumed  this 
title,  imtil  it  Avas  restored,  per  modum 
justkice,  to  John  Lord  Erskine.  Lord 
James  then  resumed  the  title  by  which 
he  is  chiefly  known  to  posterity  as  the 
Earl  of  Murray. 

s  In  MS.  G,  "  first  maid  Erie  of  Mur- 
ray." In  MS.  L  4,  the  conunencement 
of  this  paragraph  is  thus  amplified : — 
"  The  Queue  this  winter  preceding  made 
Lord  James  Erie  of  Marr,  as  some 
thought  to  conciliat  his  good  will,  quhom 
she  had  fovmd  in  absence  offendit.  At 
this  time  he  married  also  Agnes  Keith, 
daughter  to  the  Erie  Marchell.  Soone 
efter  the  Erledome  of  IMurray  was  be- 
stowed upon  him  instead  of  the  Erie- 
dome  of  Mar.  Loi'd  Erskin  had  an  old 
right  to  the  Erldome  of  Marr." 

^  The  marriage  of  Lord  James  Stewart 
with  Agnes  Keith,  daughter  of  William 


Earl  of  Marischel,  was  celebrated  on  the 
8th  of  February  1561-2,  in  the  Church 
of  St.  Giles,  Edinbui-gh,  "  with  sik  so- 
lemnitie  as  the  lyk  hes  not  bene  sein 
befoir ;  the  haill  Nobilitie  of  this  Realme 
being  thair  present,  and  convoyit  thame 
doun  to  the  Abbay  of  Halyrudhous, 
quhair  the  banket  wes  maid,  and  the 
Quenis  Grace  thairat."  (Diurnal  of  Oc- 
cmi'ents,  p.  70.)  The  same  authority 
mentions  the  rejoicings  on  that  occa- 
sion, and  that  the  Queen  conferred  the 
honour  of  Knighthood  on  Wishart  of  Pit- 
tarrow,  Lermonthof  Dau'sy,  Kirkaldy  of 
Grange,  Stewart  of  Traquair,  Murray  of 
Balvaird,  and  five  others. 
*  That  is,  John  Knox. 
5  In  MS.  G,  "  Erie  of  Murray." 
*5  "  At  this  notable  marriage,  (says 
Raudolj)!!  to  Cecil,)  one  thing  there  was 
which  I  must  testify  with  my  own  hand, 
which  is,  that  upon  Shrove  Tuesday,  at 
night,  sitting  among  the  Lords  at  sup- 
per, in  sight  of  the  Queen,  and  placed  for 
that  purpose,  she  drank  unto  the  Queen's 
Majesty  {Elizabath,)  and  sent  me  thecvp  of 
gold,  which  weighed  eighteen  or  twenty 


15G2.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  315 

him  [in]  a  coupe  of  gold,  which  he  possessed  with  greattar  joy, 
for  the  favour  of  the  gevar,  then  of  the  gift  and  valew  thairof ; 
and  yit  it  was  honourable. 

The  thingis  that  then  war  in  handilling  betwix  the  two 
Queues,  whairof  Lethingtoun,  Secreatarie  Cycill,  and  Maister 
Randolph,  war  ministeris,  war  of  great  weight,  as  we  will  after 
hear. 

This  wynter,  the  Erie  Bothwell,  the  Markques  Delabuf,  and 
Lord  Johne  of  Coldingham,  played  the  ryote  in  Edinburgh, 
mysordoured  the  hoill  toune,^  brack  Cuthbart  Ramsayis^  yettis 
and  durris,  sought  his  house  for  his  good-dowghter  Alisone 
Craik :  And  this  was  done  in  dispyte  of  the  Erie  of  Arrane, 
whose  hoore  the  said  Alison  was  suspected  to  have  been.  Tlie 
horrour  of  this  fact,  and  the  raritie  of  it,  heyghlie  commoved 
all  godlie  heartis.^  The  Assemblie,  and  also  the  Nobilitie,  for 
the  most  parte  war  in  the  toun  ;  and  so  thei  concluded  to 
crave  justice,  as  that  thei  did,  as  by  this  subsequent  Suijplica- 
tioun  doeth  appear. 

ounces."  (Letter,  12tli  February  1561-2,  »  It  would   appear   that   a   General 

quoted  by  Mr.  Tytler,  yoI.  vi.  p.  258.)  Assembly  or  Convention  was  sitting  at 

'  Randolph,  in  a  letter  to  Cecil,  dated  Edinburgh,  towards  the  end  of  Dcceni- 

27th  December  1561,  has  given  a  some-  ber   1561,   when  this  occurrence  took 

what  similar  account  of  this  riot  or  place;  and  it  was  resolved  to  present 

"  disorder  wliich  was  of  late  ia  tliis  the  Supplication  to  the  Queen : 
town."     The  letter  is  printed  in  Keith's  "  The  whilk  day,  tuiching  the  slander 

History,  vol.  ii.  p.  128.  takin  be  the  horrible  fact  and  impietie 

8  In  Jime  1571,  Cuthbert  Ramsay  was  committed    within    this    bui-gh    imder 

elected  one  of  the  Magistrates  of  EcUn-  silence  of  night,  be  Marques   DalbuifF 

burgh.     He  joined   the  Queen's   adhe-  and  his  colleagues,  in  breaking  up  of 

rents  in  defending  the  Castle,  under  Sii'  Cuthbert  Ramsay  his  zets  and  doores, 

William  Kh-kaldy  of  Grange,  ia  1573  ;  and  searching  and  seiking  his  dochter- 

and  on  the  3d  of  June,  when  the  Castle  in-law  to  oppresse  her,  as  appeuit ;  it 

was  surrendered,  Ramsay  was  one  of  is  thought  good  be  the  haill  Kirk,  that 

the  prisoners  who  were  conducted  by  a  SuppUcatioun  be  made  and  given  in 

the  English  forces  to  Leith ;  but  he  ap-  to  the  Quenis  Majestic,  in  name  of  tlie 

pears  to  have  escaped  the  ignominious  Professors  of  the  Evangell,  and  the  pcr- 

fate  awarded  by  Queen  Elizabeth  to  the  sonis  before  nommat  present  the  samcin, 

gallant  chief,  and  his  brother  Mr.  .James  to  seik  the  answer  thairof."     (Booke  of 

Kirkcaldy,  who  were  hanged  for  treason  the  Universal  Kirk,  vol.  i.  p.  11.) 
on  the  3d  of  August  1573. 


316  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

To    THE    QUEYNIS    MaJESTIE    AND    HIR     SeCREAT    AND    GrEAT 

CouNSALL,  HiR  Grace's  faythfull  and  obedient  sub- 
jectis,  the  Professouris  of  Christ  Jesus  his  holy 
Evangell,  wishes  the  Spreit  of  ryghteouse  judgement. 

The  feare  of  God  conceaved  of  his  holy  worde,  the  naturall 
and  unfeaned  luif  we  bear  unto  your  Grace,  the  dewtie  whiclie 
w^e  aw  to  the  quyetness  of  our  countrie,  and  the  terrible  threat- 
nyngis  which  our  God  pronounces  against  everie  Realme  and 
Citie  in  the  quliilk  horrible  crymes  ar  openlie  committed,  and 
then  be  the  committars  obstinatlie  defended,  compell  us,  a  great 
parte  of  your  subjectis,  humblie  to  crave  of  your  Grace  upryght 
and  trew  judgement  aganis  sick  personis  as  have  done  what  in 
thame  lyes,  to  kendle  Goddis  wrayth  against  this  hoill  Realme. 
The  impietie  be  thame  committed  is  so  haynous  and  so  hor- 
rible, that  as  it  is  ane  fact  most  vyle  and  rair  to  be  heard  of 
within  this  Realme,  and  principallie  within  the  bowells  of  this 
Citie,  so  should  we  think  oure  selfis  gyltie  in  the  same,  gif 
negligentlie,  or  yitt  for  warldlie  feare  we  pass  it  ower  with 
silence :  And  thairfoir  your  Grace  may  nott  think  that  we 
requyre  ony  thing  (whill  that  we  crave  open  malefactouris  con- 
dignelie  to  be  punished)  but  that  quhilk  God  lies  commanded 
us  to  crave,  and  lies  also  commanded  your  Grace  to  geve  to 
everie  ane  of  your  subjectis ;  for  be  this  lynk  lies  God  knytt 
togittlier  the  prince  and  the  people,  that  as  he  commandis 
honour,  feare,  and  obedience  to  be  geviii  to  the  poweris  estab- 
lished by  him,  so  does  he  in  expressed  wordis  command  and 
declair  what  the  prince  aweth  unto  the  subjectis,  to  witt,  that  as 
he  is  the  Minister  of  God,  bearing  his  sweard  for  vengeance  to 
be  tackyn  on  evill  doaris,  and  for  the  defence  of  peccable  and 
quyett  men,  so  aucht  he  to  draw  the  same  witliout  all  par- 
cialitie  so  oft  as  in  Goddis  name  he  is  rcquyred  thairto :  Seing 
so  it  is,  (Madam,)  that  this  crynie  so  reccntlie  committed,  and 
that  in  the  eyes  of  your  hoill  Realme  now  presentlie  assembled. 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  317 

is  so  haynous,  for  who  heirtoforc  liavo  heard  within  the  bowcllis 
of  Edinburgli,  yettis  and  durris  under  silence  of  nycht  hurst 
up,  housses  lyiied,  (and  that  with  hostilitic,)  soaking  a  woman 
as  appeared  to  oppresse  hyr  ;  seing  we  say  that  this  cryme  is 
so  haynouse,  that  all  godlie  men  fear  nott  onlye  Goddis  soir 
displeasur  to  fall  upoun  you  and  your  hoill  Realme,  but  also 
that  sick  libertie  brede  contempt,  and  in  the  end  seditioun,  yf 
remeady  in  tyme  be  not  provided,-^  quhilk  in  our  judgement  is 
impossible,  yf  sevir  punishement  be  nott  executed  for  the 
cryme  committed :  Thairfoir,  we  maist  humblye  beseik  your 
Grace,  that  all  affectioun  sett  asyd,^  ye  declair  your  self  so  up- 
rycht  in  this  caise,  that  ye  may  geve  evident  demonstratioun 
to  all  your  subjectis,  that  the  fear  of  God,  joyned  with  the  luif 
of  the  commoun  tranquillitie,  have  principall  seat  and  domi- 
nioun  in  your  Grace  hearte.  This  farther.  Madam,  of  conscience 
Ave  sj)eik,  that  as  your  Grace  in  Goddis  name  does  crave  of  us 
obedience,  (wliilk  to  render  in  all  thingis  lauchfull  we  ar  most 
willing,)  so  in  the  same  name  do  we,  the  hoill  Professouris  of 
Christis  Evangell  within  this  your  Grace  Realme,  crave  of  you 
and  of  your  Counsall  scharpe  punishement  of  this  cryme  ;  and 
for  performance  thairof,  that  without  all  delay  the  principall 
actouris  of  this  most  haynous  cryme,  and  the  persewaris  of 
this  pretended  vilanye,  may  be  called  befoir  the  Cheaf  Justice 
of  this  Realme,  to  suffer  an  assise,  and  to  be  punished  accord- 
ing to  the  lawes  of  the  same :  And  your  Grace's  ansAver  maist 
humilie  wc  beseik. 

This  Supplicatioun  was  presented  by  diverse  gentilmen. 
The  flatteraris  of  the  Courte  at  the  first  stormed,  and  asked, 
"  Who  durst  avow  it  ? "  To  whom  the  Maister,  now  Lord 
Lyndesay  answered,  "  A  thousand  gentilmen  within  Edin- 
burgh."    Otheris  were  eschamed  to  appone  thame  selfis  thair- 

>  In  tlic  Rook  of  tlic  Kirk,   "  giuUic  *  In   the   Book  of  the   Kirk,   "  Inid 

provydit."  asyde." 


318  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

to  in  publict ;  but  thei  suborned  the  Quene  to  geve  a  gentill 
answer  unto  such  tyme  as  tbe  Conventioun  was  dissolved.  And 
so  sche  did ;  for  sclie  lacks  no  craft,  boy tli  to  cloik  and  to  man- 
teane  impietie  (and  liurdome  in  especiall.)  Sclie  alledged, 
"  That  hir  Uncle  was  a  strangear,  and  he  had  a  young  cum- 
pany ;  but  sche  should  putt  suche  ordour  unto  him,  and  unto 
all  otheris,  that  heareafter  thei  should  have  no  occasioun  to 
compleane."  And  so  deluded  sche  the  just  petitioun  of  hir 
subjectis ;  and  no  wounder,  for  how  shall  sche  punische  in 
otheris  that  vice,  which  in  France  is  free  without  punishe- 
ment,  and  which  Kingis  and  Cardinallis  use  most  commonlie, 
as  the  mask  and  dansing  of  Orleance  can  witness,  whairin 
virgenis  and  menis  wyeffis  war  maid  as  commoun  to  King 
Harie  and  Charles,  the  Cardinallis,  unto  thair  Courte  and 
pages,  as  commoun  harlottis  of  the  bordell  ar  unto  thair  com- 
painzeonis.     The  manor  was  thus  : 

At  the  entrie  of  King  Harie  of  France,  in  the  towne  of 
Orleance,  the  matrones,  virgenis,  and  menis  wyiffis,  war  com- 
manded to  present  thame  selfis  in  the  Kingis  palice  at  nycht, 
to  daunse :  and  thei  obeyed ;  for  commounlie  the  Frenche 
natioun  is  not  hard  to  be  entreated  to  vanitie.  After  fidling 
and  flyngyng,  and  when  the  Cardinall  of  Lorane^  had  espyed 
his  pray,  he  said  to  the  King,  "Sire,  la primiere  est  vostre,  etfaut 

1  The  Cardinal  Charles  de  Lorraine,  pom-  le   temps,    tres-bon    Catholique." 

Archbishop  and  Duke  of  Rheims,  was  He  died  24th  December  1574,  aged  49. 
the  second  son  of  Claude  Duke  de  Guise.  In  addition  to  note  4,  page  267,  it 

He  was  born  17th  February  1524.     He  may  be  noticed  that  Calderwood  says, 

obtained  the  See  of  Rheims  in  1538,  and  when  the  Queen  was  preparing  to  return 

was  consecrated  in  1545,  when  twenty-  to  Scotland,  "  In  the  meane  tyme,  Charles 

one  years  of  age.     We  need  not  refer  to  Cardinal  of  Lorraine,  counselled  her  to 

Protestant  writers  for  his  character,  or  leave    beside    liim    her    apparell    and 

to  the  work  entitled  the  Legend  of  his  household  stuffe,  till  it  was  scene  what 

Life,  as  it  is  admitted  that  to  avarice  was  the  successe  of  her  voyage.     She 

and  inordinate  pride,  be  joined  cruelty,  being  acquainted  with  his  nature,  an- 

want  of  faith,  and  licentiousness.    Bran-  swered,   she   could  not   see   wherefore 

tome  admits  that  the  Cardinal  was  no  she  should  be  more  cai-efuU  of  her  stuffe 

ornament  to  the  Church,  when  he  says,  and  apparell  nor  of  her  owne  persone." 

"  qui,  quoique  mauvais  Clir^tien,  etait,  (Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  131.) 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  319 

que  je  suis^  le  second."  That  is  to  say,  "  Sire,  the  first  choisc 
is  youris,  and  I  man  be  the  secound."  And  so  the  King  gat 
the  preeminence,  that  he  liad  his  first  electioun.  Bot  becaus 
Cardinallis  ar  companeonis  to  Kingis,  the  Cardinall  of  Lorane 
had  the  nixt :  And  thairafter  the  torches  war  putt  out,  and 
everie  man  commanded  to  provid  for  him  self  the  best  he 
myght.  What  cry  was  thair  of  husbandis  for  thair  wyeffis  ;  of 
wyiffis,  for  thair  husbandis ;  of  auncient  matronis,  for  thair 
dochteris  ;  and  of  virgenis  for  thair  freindis ;  or  for  some 
honest  man  to  defend  thair  pudicitie,  Orleance  will  remember 
mo  kingis  dayis  then  one. 

This  horrible  vilanay,  a  fruct  of  the  Cardinall  of  Lorane's  rcli- 
gioun,  we  shortlie  tueche,  to  lett  all  the  world  understand,  what 
subjectis  may  looke  of  suche  magistratis  ;  for  such  pasty  me  to 
thame  is  but  joyousitie,  whairin  our  Queyn  was  brocht  up.2  We 
call  hir  nott  a  hoore,  (albeit  hir  deame  heard  more  then  we 
will  wrytt,)  but  sche  was  brought  up  in  the  company  of  the  ourf, 
wyldast  hooremongaris,  (yea,  of  such  as  no  more  regarded  education. 
incest,  then  honest  men  regard  the  company  of  thair  lauchfull 
wyeffis ;)  in  the  company  of  such  men,  (we  say,)  was  our 
Queyn  brought  up.  What  sche  was  and  is,  her  self  best 
knowis,  and  God,  (we  doubt  nott,)  will  farther  declair. 

But  punishement  of  that  enormitie  and  fearfuU  attemptat  ^X^^Se 
we  could  gett  none  :  but  more  and  more  thei  presumed  to  do  ",  1567.« 
violence,  and  frequented  nyghtlie  masking.     Some,  as  Robeyn 
Craige's  house,  becaus  his  dowghter  was  fair,  delyted  thairin : 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  que  je  soy."  been  chosen  for  the  yomig  Scotish  Prm- 
*  Henry  the  second  of  France  sue-  cess  to  have  received  her  education, 
ceeded  to  the  throne  in  1547,  and  died  ^  This  marginal  note  does  not  occur  in 
in  1559.  Tliis  incident  is  not  recorded  MS.  G,  and  seems  to  have  been  added  in 
in  the  Histories  of  the  time,  but  may  be  MS.  1566,  subsequently  to  the  transcrip- 
referred  to  the  later  period  of  his  reign.  tion  of  this  portion  of  the  text.  It  con- 
As  noticed  in  a  previous  note  (page  269,)  tains  an  evident  allusion  to  the  Queen's 
the  extreme  profligacy  that  prevailed  at  imprisonment  after  her  sm-render  at 
the  Coiu-t  of  France  is  but  too  manifestly  Carberry  Hill  in  July  1567  :  see  vol.  i. 
exhibited  in  the  pages  of  Brantome :  a  p.  218,  note  4. 
more  unfortunate  place  could  not  have 


320  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

otlieris  lamented,  and  began  to  bear  the  mater  verray  heavelie. 
At  lentil  tlie  Lord  Duck  his  freindis  assembled  upoun  a  nycht 
upoun  the  calsey.^  The  Abbott  of  Kyh^'yning,^  (who  then  was 
joyned  to  the  Churehe,  and  so,  as  we  understand,  yitt  abydeth,) 
was  the  principall  man  at  the  begyning.  To  him  repaired 
many  faythfuU ;  and  amangis  otheris  cam  Andro  Stewart,  Lord 
Ochiltree,  a  man  rather  borne  to  maik  peace,  then  to  brag 
upomi  the  calsey,  and  demanded  the  querrall ;  and  being 
informed  of  the  formar  enormitie  said,  "  Nay,  sick  impietie 
shall  nott  be  sufferred  so  long  as  God  shall  assist  us.  The 
victorye  that  God  in  his  mercy  hath  gevin  us,  we  will  by 
his  grace  manteane/'  And  so  he  commanded  his  sone,  Andro 
Stewart,  then  Maister,^  and  his  servandis  to  putt  thame  selfis 
in  ordour,  and  to  bring  furth  thair  spearis  and  long  weaponis ; 
and  so  did  otheris.  The  word  cam  to  the  Erie  Bothwell  and 
liis,  that  the  Hammyltonis  Avar  upoun  the  gaitt.*  Vowes 
war  maid,  "  That  the  Hammyltonis  should  be  doung,  not  onlie 
out  of  the  towne,  but  also  out  of  the  countrey."  Lord  Johne  of 
Coldinghame  ^  had  maryed  the  said  Erie  Bothwellis  sister,  (a 


1  On  the   19th   of  December   1561,  Ochiltree:  seepage  260,  note  19.     His 

(Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  p.  70.)  eldest   son  Andrew  died  in  the  year 

'  Gawin  Hamilton,  Abbot  of  Kilwin-  1578,   having  predeceased   his   father, 

ning,  was  the  fourth  son  of  James  Hamil-  Master  of  Ochiltree,  here  mentioned, 

ton  of  Raploch.    In  1521,  James  the  eld-  ^  In  MS.  G,  "  upoim  the  streat." 

est  son  on  his  marriage  with  the  heiress  ^  Lord  John  Stewart,  Prior  of  Colding- 

of  Stenhouse,  resigned  the  fee   of  the  ham,  an  illegitimate   son  of  James  the 

lands  of  Raploch,  and  upon  the  death  Fifth,  by  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  John  Lord 

of  the  next  two  brothers,  Gavin  succeed-  Carmichael.    His  sister  became  the  first 

ed  to  the  property  in  1559.     He  had  wife  of  Archibald  fifth  Earl  of  Argyle. 

been  educated  for  the  Church ;  and  ob-  Randolph  in   a    letter  to   Cecil,   24th 

tained  the  Deanery  of  Glasgow,  which  October  1561,  mentioning  the  leading 

he  exchanged  in  1550  for  the  Abbacy  of  persons  at  Court,  says,  "  The  Lord  John 

Kilwinning.     In  1555,  he  was  raised  to  of  Coldingham  hath   not  least  favour 

the  bench.     He  was  a  steady  adherent  with  his  leajiing  and  dancing :  he  is  like 

of  Queen  Mary,  and  distinguished  him-  to  marry  the  Lord  Bothwell's  sister." 

self  in    several    skirmishes ;    but  was  His  marriage  with  Jean  only  daughter 

mortally  woimded,  and  died  at  Leith,  of  Patrick  third  Eavl  of  Bothwell,  was 

on  16th  June  1571.  solemnized  at  Seton,  in  presence  of  Queen 

^  Andrew,   second   Lord   Stewart   of  Mary  :  see  following  note. 


1562. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


321 


sufficient  woman  for  such  a  man ;) — allia  drew  the  Lord 
Roberte;-^  and  so  thejjoyned  bojth  with  the  said  Erie  Both- 
well.  But  the  stoutness  of  the  Marquess  Le  Beuf,  (D'Elbuf  2 
thei  call  him.)  is  most  to  be  commended  ;  for  in  his  chalmer, 
within  the  Abbay,  he  starte  to  ane  halbart,  and  ten  men  war 
skarse  able  to  hald  him  ;  but  as  hap  was,  the  inner  yett  of  the 
Abbay  keapt  him  that  nycht ;  and  the  danger  Avas  bctwix  the 
Croce  and  the  Salt  Trone  -^  and  so  he  was  a  large  quarter  of 
myle  from  the  schote  and  sklenting  of  boltis.  The  Maister  of 
Maxwell,  gave  declaratioun^  to  the  Erie  Both  well,  "  That  yf  he 
steired  furth  of  his  lodgeing,  he,  and  all  that  wold  assist  him, 
should  resist  him  in  the  face  ;"  whose  wordis  did  somwhat  beat 
doon  that  blast.  The  Erles  of  Huntley  and  Morray,  being  in 
the  Abbay  whair  the  Marques  was,  cam  with  thair  cumpanyes, 
send  fra  the  Queue  to  stay  that  tumult,  as  that  thei  did  ;  for 
Bothwell  and  his  war  commanded,  under  pane  of  treassone,  to 
keap  thair  lodgeingis.^ 


1  Lord  Robert  Stewart,  see  page  271. 
Randolph  in  the  letter  referred  to  in 
the  previous  note,  says,  "  The  Lord 
Robert  consumeth  with  love  for  the 
Earl  of  Cassillis  sister."  This  was  Lady 
Jane  Kennedy,  eldest  daughter  of  Gil- 
bert thu-d  Earl  of  Cassilis.  In  another 
letter,  27th  December  1561,  he  says, — 
"  The  Lord  Robert  was  married  on 
Sunday  was  eight  days  to  the  Earl  of 
Cassillis  sister ;  and  my  Lord  John 
upon  Sunday  next  to  the  Earl  of  Both- 
well's  sister  :  1  mean  not  here,  in  the 
Court,  but  where  the  women  are  in 
their  friends'  houses."  According  to 
this  intimation,  the  marriages  took 
place  on  the  14th  and  28th  of  Decem- 
ber respectively. 

2  Rene  de  Lorraine,  Marquis  d'Elbeuf : 
see  note  8,  page  2G8.  He  had  a  natural 
son  born  in  Scotland,  "  de  Marguerite 
Chrestien,  demoisselle  Ecossoise."  Ac- 
cording to  one  authority,  d'Elbeuf  re- 
mained in  Scotland  till  the  end  of  Feb- 

VOL.  II. 


niary  1561-2 : — "  Upoun  the  penult  day 
of  Februar,  the  zeir  of  God  1561  zeiris, 
[the]  Marques  departit  furth  of  Haly- 
rudhous  fi-a  the  Quenis  Grace  to 
Fraunce."  (Diurnal  of  Occun-ents,  p. 
71.)  But  in  June  1562,  there  was  paid, 
"  be  the  Quenis  Graces  speciale  com- 
mand to  ISlons"'  Marques  at  his  depart- 
ing fm-th  of  tliis  realme  to  France,  as 
his  acquittance,  &c.  £500."  (Trea- 
surer's Accounts.) 

'  Betwixt  the  Cross  and  the  Salt- 
Trone ;  that  is,  in  the  High  Street,  near 
the  present  Trone  Chm-ch,  where  the 
Trone  or  beam  for  weighing  merchan- 
dize foi-merly  stood. 

*  In  MS.  G,  "  The  Maister  of  Max- 
well, (thairafter  maid  Lord  Herries,) 
gave  declaration,  &c. :"  see  vol.  i.  p. 
319. 

5  Randolph  says,  that  the  day  after 
the  tumult,  both  the  Duke  and  Both- 
well  were  sent  for  to  the  Covirt,  the  for- 
mer being  "  convoyed  with  all  the  Pro- 
X 


322  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

It  Avas  whispered  of  many,  that  the  Erie  of  Murray's 
displeasur  was  as  much  sought  as  any  haitterant  that  the 
Hammyltonis  bayr  against  the  Erie  Bothwell,  or  yitt  he 
aganist  thame.  And  in  verray  deed,  eather  had  the  Duck 
verray  fals  servandis,  or  ellis  by  Huntley  and  the  Hammyltonis, 
the  Erie  of  Murray  his  death  was  ofter  conspyred  than  ones  : 
the  suspitioun  whairof  burst  furth  so  far,  that  upoun  a  day  the 
said  Erie,  being  upoun  horse  to  have  come  to  the  sermon,  was 
charged  by  one  of  the  Duckis  awin  servandis  to  retume  and 
abyd  with  the  Queyn.  The  bruyt  thairof  spred  over  all.  Wliat 
ground  it  had  we  cane  nott  say  ;  but  schorte  thairafter  the 
Duck  and  some  of  the  Lordis  convened  at  Glasgow ;  thair 
conclusioun  was  nott  knowen.  The  Erie  of  Arrane  came  to 
Edinburgh,  whair  the  Erie  Bothwell  lay.  The  Queue  and  the 
Court  war  departed  to  Fyif,  and  remaned  sometimes  in  Sanct- 
androis  and  sometimes  in  Falkland.^ 

The  Erie  Bothwell,  by  the  meanes  of  James  BaiToun,^  burges, 


testants  that  were  in  this  town ;   the  for  his  second  wife  Helen  Leslie,  "  gud- 

other  with  the  Papists.     It  was   con-  wyf  of  Kynnarde,"   by  whom  he   left 

eluded,  that  for  avoiding  of  cumber,  the  several  daughters.     (Register  of  Conf 

Earl  Bothwell   should  leave   the  toun  Test.)     This   lady,  who   survived  him, 

till  the  8th  of  January."     According  to  appears  to  have  married  again,  first  to 

the  Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  (p.  70,)  the  Mr.   James   Kirkaldy,    brother   of   Sir 

Earl  of  Bothwell,  on  the  21st  December,  William  Kirkaldy  of  Grange,  by  whom 

"  depairtit  with  his   freindis   fui-th  of  she  had  a  son  and   a   daughter;    and 

Edinburgh,  at  the  Quenis  command."  after  his  death  in  1573,  (see  page  315, 

^  From  about  the  end  of  March  till  note  2,)  to  Mr.  .James  Beaton.     There 

the  beginning  of  May  1562.  was  granted  to  Patrick  Halket  of  Pet- 

'  Knox  has  previously  mentioned  Bar-  ferren,  the  escheit  of   18  scoir  pimdis 

ron,  (vol.  i.  p.  268) ;  and  in  1556,  (ib.  p.  auchtand  to  vmquliile  James  Barroun, 

246,)  he  gives  an  accoimt  of  the  death  of  burgess  of  Edinburgh  and  to  Helen  Les- 

his  first  wife,  Elizabeth  Adamson.     Ba-  lie  his  spous.      .     .     .     Now  spousit  in 

ron  for  several  years  filled  the  office  of  marriage  with  Maister  James  Kii-kcaldy, 

one  of  the  magistrates    of  Edinburgh,  brother-german  to   Sir  William  ICirk- 

and  was  returned  as  one  of  the  Commis-  caldy  of  Grange  knycht, — the  said  Mr. 

sioners  to  the  General  Assembly,  from  James  liu*  spouse,  "  being  denounced 

1560  till  the  year  of  his  death,  which  rebell,   &c.,   penult  September   1571." 

took   place   in   September   15G9.      His  (Register  of  Signatures,  vol.  iii.fol.  102.) 

will   was  made  at   Kynnaird  in  Fj'fe,  In  the  confirmation  of  her  own  Testa- 

21  St  September  1569,  having  married  nient,  mention  is  made  of  her  two  child- 


1.062.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  323 

and  then  merchant  of  Edinburgh,  desyred  to  speak  Avith 
Johne  Knox  secreatlie;  which  the  said  Johne  glaidlie  granted, 
and  spack  him  iipoun  a  nyclit,  first  i 
ing,  and  thairafter  in  his  awin  study, 
communication  and  conference  was  :- 
his  formare  inordinate  lyef,  and  esjjeciallie  that  he  was  pro- 
vocked  by  the  entysmentis  of  the  Queue  Regent  to  do  that 
which  lie  sore  reapented,  alsweall  against  the  Laird  of  Ormes- 
toun,8  whose  blood  was  spilt,  albeit  not  in  his  defalt :  But  his 
cheaf  dolour  was,  that  he  had  misbehaved  him  self  against 
the  Erie  of  Arrane,  whose  favouris  he  Avas  most  willing  to  re- 
deame,  yf  possible  it  war  that  sa  he  myclit ;  and  desyred  the 
said  Johne  to  geve  him  his  best  counsall,  "  For  (said  he)  yf  I 
mycht  have  my  Lord  of  Arrane's  favouris,  I  wald  await  upoun 
the  Court  with  a  page  and  few  servandis,  to  spair  my  expen- 
sis,  whare  now  I  am  compelled  to  keap,  for  my  awin  saifty,  a 
number  of  wicked  and  uuj)rofitable  men,  to  the  utter  destruc- 
tioun  of  my  living  that  is  left." 

To  the  which  the  said  Johne  ansuered,  ''  My  Lord,  wold  to 
God  that  in  me  war  counsall  or  judgement  that  mycht  con- 
forte  and  releave  you.  For  albeit  that  to  this  hour  it  hath 
nott  chaunsed  me  to  speik  with  your  Lordship  face  to  face, 
yit  have  I  borne  a  good  mynd  to  your  house  ;  and  have  bene 
sorry  at  my  heart  of  the  tnibles  that  I  have  heard  you  to  be 
involved  in.  For,  my  Lord,  my^  grandfather,  goodsher,  and 
father,  have  served  your  Lordshipis  predecessoris,  and  some  of 
thame  have  died  under  thair  standartis  ;    and  this  is  a  part 

ren  by  her  second  husband ;  and  she  is  Divinity,  Jolrn  and  Robert  Baron,  were 

described  as  now  spousit  to  Mr.  James  cadets  of  the  Laii'ds  of  Kinnaird,  in  this 

Beaton,  parson  of  Old  Roxburgh.     She  shire,  of  that  name." 

died  in  June  1577.     (Register  of  Con-  ^  John  Cockburn   of  Ormiston  :    see 

firmed   Testaments.)     In  1580,  George  vol.  i.  pp.  142,  455. 

Baroun  paid  a  composition,  as  son  and  '•'  Tliis  allusion  of  Knox  to  liis  own 

lieir  of  Helen  LesUe  of  Kynnaird.     Sir  family  is  interesting,  as  it  furnishes  the 

Robert  Sibbald,  among  the  eminent  men  only  information  that  can  be  relied  upon 

of  Fife,  says,  "  The  learned  Doctors  of  respecting  his  ancestors. 


324  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

of  tlie  obligatioun  of  our  Scotisbe  kyndnes :  but  this  is  not 
tlie  clieaf.  But  as  God  lies  maid  me  his  publict  raessinger  of 
glaid  ty  dings,  so  is  mj  will  earnest  tliat  all  men  may  embrase 
it,  wliicli  perfytlie  thei  can  not,  so  long  as  that  tliair  remanetli 
in  thame  rancour,  malice,  or  envy.  I  am  verray  sorry  that  ye 
have  gevin  occasioun  unto  men  to  be  offended  with  you  ;  but  I 
am  more  sory  that  ye  have  offended  the  Majestie  of  God,  who 
by  such  meanes  oft  punishes  the  other  sinnes  of  man.  And 
thairfoir  my  counsall  is,  that  ye  begyn  at  God,  with  whom  yf 
ye  will  enter  in  perfyte  reconciliatioun,  I  doubt  not  but  he 
shall  bow  the  heartis  of  men  to  forget  all  offenses.  And  as 
for  me,  yf  ye  will  continue  in  godlynes,  your  Lordship  shall 
command  me  als  boldlie  as  any  that  serves  your  Lordship." 

The  said  Lord  desyred  him  that  he  wold  tempt  i  the  Erie  of 
Arrane's  mynd,  yf  he  wold  be  content  to  accept  him  in  his  fa- 
vouris,  which  he  promessed  to  do  ;  and  so  earnestlie  travaled 
in  that  mater,  that  it  was  ones  brought  to  such  an  end  as  all 
the  faythfuU  praysed  God  for  that  aggrement.  The  greatest 
stay  stood  upoun  the  satisfactioun  of  the  Laird  of  Ormestoun, 
who,  besyde  his  formare  hurte,  as  is  before  declared,  was  evin 
in  that  same  tyme  of  the  commonyng,  persewed  be  the  said 
Lord^  Bothwell,  his  sone  Maister  Alexander  Cockburne^  tacken 
by  him,  and  caryed  with  him  to  Borthwick ;  but  gentillye 
yneuch  send  back  agane. 

That  new  truble  so  greatlie  displeased  Johne  Knox,  that 
he  almost  geve  ower  farther  travailing  for  amytie.  But  yit, 
upoun  the  excuse  of  the  said  Erie,  and  upoun  the  declaratioun 
of  his  mynd,  he  re-entered  in  laubouris,  and  so  brought  it  to 
pass,  that  the  Laird  of  Ormestoun  referred  his  satisfactioun 
in  all  thingis  to  the  judgmentis  of  the  Erles  of  Arrane  and 

*  In  MS.  G,  "  wold  attempt."  veying  the  message  from   the   Queen, 

*  In  MS.  G,  "  the  said  Erie."     '  which  led  to  the  communing  there  de- 
^  He  was  the  eldest  son  of  John  Cock-      tailed.     He  died  in  1564  :  and  in  early 

burn  of  Ormiston.  In  the  following  life  he  had  been  a  pupil  of  Knox :  see 
page  331,  Knox  mentions  him  as  con-      vol.  i.  p.  185,  note  3. 


ir)62.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  325 

Murray,  whom  to  tlie  said  Erie  Bothwell  submitted  liim  self 
in  that  head,  and  thairupoun  delyvered  his  hand  wrjt.  And 
so  was  convoyed  by  ccrtane  of  his  friends  to  the  loodgcing  of 
the  Kirk-of-Feild,  whair  the  Erie  of  Arrane  was  with  his  friendis, 
and  the  said  Johne  Knox  with  him,^  to  bear  witnesse  and  tes- 
tificatioun  of  the  end  of  the  asfcrrement. 


those  honouris  that  freyndis  had  appointed,    (Maister  Gavin  anu  eri.e 
Hammyltoun^  and  the  Laird  of  Rikchartoun,^  war  the  cheaf  etc. 
freindis  that  communed,)  the  said  Erie  of  Arrane  gentillye 
passed  unto  him,  embrased  him,  and  said,  "  Yf  the  hearttis  be 
upryclit,  few  ceremonyes  may  serve  and  content  me." 

The  said  Johne  Knox,  in  audience  of  thame  boyth,  and  of 
thair  freindis,  said,  "  Now,  my  Lordis,  God  hath  brought  you 
to  gitther  be  the  laubouris  of  semple  men,  in  respect  of  such 
as  wold  have  travailled  thairin.  I  know  my  laubouris  ar  al- 
readdy  tacken  in  ane  evill  parte  ;  but  becaus  I  have  the  tes- 
timonye  of  a  good  conscience  befoir  my  God,  that  whatsoever 
I  have  done,  I  have  done  it  in  his  fear,  for  the  proffeit  of  you 
boith,  for  the  hurt  of  none,  and  for  the  tranquillitie  of  this 
Realme:  seing  (I  say)  that^  my  conscience  beareth  witnesse 
to  me,  what  I  have  sought  and  continewallie  seak,  I  the  more 
patientlic  bear  the  mysreporttis  and  wrangouse  judgementis  of 
men.  And  now  I  leave  you  in  peace,  and  desyres  you  that  ar 
the  freindis  to  study  that  amitie  may  increase,  all  formar 
offenses  being  forgett."  The  freindis  on  eather  partie  em- 
brased other,  and  the  two  Erles  dci)arted  to  ane  wyndo,  and 
talked  by  thame  selfis  familiarlie  a  reasonable  space.  And 
thairafter  the  Erie  Boithwell  departed  for  that  nycht :  and 

^  See  page  327,  note  2.  But  see  note  to  vol.  i.  p.  376.     In  1574 

2  In  MSS.  G,  and  L  4,  "  Mr.  Gawin  he  was  succeeded  by  his  brother  of  the 
Hanimyltoun,  Abbot  of  Kihvynning."  same  name,  and  probably  the  issue  of 

3  Henry  Drunimond  of  Riccarton  sue-  a  second  marriage.  (House  of  Drum- 
ceeded  his  father,  who  is  mentioned  as  mond,  p.  292.) 

slain   at   the   siege   of  Lcith  in    1500.  «  In  MS.  G,  "  Seeing  therefore  that." 


326  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

iipoiin  the  nixt  day  in  the  mornyng  returned,  with  some  of  his 
honest  freinds,  and  came  to  the  sermoun  with  the  Erie  foir- 
said  ;  whairat  many  rejoised.  But  God  had  ane  other  work 
to  wyrk  then  the  eyes  of  men  could  espy. 

The  Thurisday  nixtl  they  dyned  togetther;  and  thairafter 
the  said  Erie  Boithwell  and  Maister  Gawane  Hammyltoun 
raid  to  my  Lord  Duckis  Grace,  who  then  Avas  in  Kynneill, 
What  communicatioun  was  betwix  thame,  it  is  not  certanelie 
knowne,  but  by  the  reporte  which  the  said  Erie  of  Arrane  maid 
to  the  Quenys  Grace,  and  unto  the  Erie  of  Murray,  by  his 
wryttingis.  For  upoun  Fryday,  the  ferd  day  after  thair  re- 
conciliatioun,  the  sermon  being  ended,  the  said  Erie  of  Arrane 
cam  to  the  house  of  the  said  Johne  Knox,  and.  brought  with 
him  Maister  Bichart  Strang 2  and  Alexander  Guthre,^  to  whom 
he  opened  the  greaf  of  his  mynd  befoir  that  Johne  Knox  was 
called ;  for  he  was  occupyed,  (as  commounlie  he  useth  to  be 
after  his  sermonis,)  in  directing  of  writtingis.  Whiche  ended, 
the  said  Erie  called  the  thre  togetther,  and  said,  "  I  am 
treasonablie  betrayed  ;"  and  with  these  wordis  began  to  weape. 
Johne  Knox  demanded,  "  My  Lord,  who  hes  betrayed  yow  ?" 
"  Ane  Judas,  or  other  (said  he)  ;  but  I  know  it  is  but  my  lyef 
that  is  sought :  I  regard  it  not."  The  other  said,  "  My  Lord, 
I  understand  not  such  dark  maner  of  speaking :  yf  I  shall 
geve  you  any  ansuer,  ye  maun  speik  moir  plane."  "  Weill, 
(said  he,)  I  tack  you  three  to  witnesse  that  I  oppeu  this  unto 
you,  and  I  will  wryt  it  unto  the  Queue :  Ane  act  of  treassone 
is  laid  to  my  charge  ;  the  Erie  Bothwell  hes  schawin  to  me 
in  counsall,  that  he  shall  tack  the  Queue,  and  put  hir  in  my 
handis  in  the  Castcll  of  Dumbertane ;  and  that  he  shall  slay 
the  Erie  of  Murray,  Lethingtoun,  and  otlieris  that  now  mysgyde 

'  The  20tli  Marcb,  15G2.  ed  in  1567,  "  to  defend  and  pursue  all 

*  Mr.  Richard  Strang  was  an  Advo-  actions  pertaining  to  the  Kirk." 

cate.     His  name  occurs  in  the  proceed-  ^  Alexander  Guthrie  held  for  many 

ings  of  the  General  Assembly  as  one  of  years  the  office  of  Town  Clerk  of  the 

the  three  Procurators  who  were  appoint-  City  of  Edinburgh. 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  327 

hir :  and  so  sliall  I  and  he  renll  all.  But  I  know  that  this  is 
devised  to  accuse  me  of  treassone  ;  for  I  know  that  he  will 
inform  the  Queue  of  it :  But  I  tack  you  to  witnes,  that  I 
oppen  it  hear  unto  you  ;  and  I  will  pas  incontinent,  and 
wryte  to  the  Quenis  Majestie,  and  unto  my  brother  the  Erie 
of  Murray." 

Johne  Knox  demanded,  "  Did  ye  consent,  my  Lord,  to  any 
part  of  that  treassone  V  He  ansuered,  "  Nay.''  "  Then,  (said 
he,)  in  my  judgement,  his  wordis,  albeit  tliei  war  spoken,  can 
never  be  treassone  unto  you  ;  for  the  performance  of  the  fact 
dependis  upoun  your  will,  whairto  ye  say  ye  have  disassented ; 
and  so  shall  that  purpose  evanise  and  dye  by  the  self,  onless 
that  ye  waiken  it ;  for  it  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  he  will 
accuse  you  of  that  which  he  him  self  [hes]  devised,  and  whair- 
to ye  wold  not  consent."  "  0,  (said  he,)  ye  understand  not 
what  craft  is  used  against  me :  It  is  treassone  to  conceall 
treassone."  "  My  Lord,  (said  he,)  treasson  maun  importe  con- 
sent and  determinatioun,  quhilki  I  hear  upoun  neather  of 
your  partis.  And  thairfoir,  my  Lord,  in  my  judgement  it  shal- 
be  more  suyre  and  moir  honorable  to  you  to  depend  upoun 
your  [awin]  innocencye,  and  to  abyde  the  injust  accusatioun 
of  ane  other,  (yf  any  follow  thairof,  as  I  think  thair  shall  not,) 
then  ye  to  accuise,  (esjjeciallie  after  so  lait  reconciliatioun,) 
and  have  none  other  witnesses  but  your  awin  affirmatioun." 
"  I  know,  (said  he,)  that  he  will  offer  the  combatt  unto  me  ; 
but  that  wold  not  be  suffered  in  France ;  but  I  will  do  that 
which  I  have  purposed."  And  so  he  departed,  and  took  with 
him  to  his  loodgeing  the  saidis  Alexander  Guthery  and  Mr. 
Richart  Strang  ;  from  whense  was  dyted  and  written  a  letter 
to  the  Quenis  Majestie,  according  to  the  formar  purpose,  which 
letter  was  direct  with  all  diligence  to  the  Quenis  Majestie,  who 
then  was  in  Falkland. 

The  Erie  him  self  raid  after  to  Kynneill,  to  his  father,  the 

'111  MS.  G,  ••ofllieqiiliilk.s.-' 


^2S  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

Duckis  Grace.l  How  he  was  entreated,  we  have  hut  the  com- 
moun  hruyte  ;  hut  from  thense  he  wrait  ane  other  letter  with 
liis  aAvin  hand,  in  sypher,  to  the  Erie  of  Murray,  compleanyng 
upoun  his  rigorous  handelling  and  entreatment  hy  his  awin 
father,  and  by  his  freindis ;  and  affirmed  farther,  that  he  feared 
his  lyef,  in  case  that  he  gat  not  suddane  reskew.  But  thair- 
upoun  he  remaned  not,  but  brack  the  chalmer  whairin  he  was 
put,  and  with  great  pain  past  to  Striveling,  and  from  thense 
he  was  convoyed  to  the  Hallyardis,^  wliair  he  was  keapt  till 
that  the  Erie  of  Murray  cam  unto  him,  and  convoyed  him  to 
the  Quene,  then  beand  in  Falkland,  who  then  was  sufficientlie 
instructed  of  the  hoill  mater  ;  and  upoun  suspitioun  conceaved, 
had  caused  apprehend  Maister  Gawan  Hammyltoun  and  the 
Erie  Bothwell  foirsaid ;  who  knowing  nothing  of  the  formar 
advertismentis,  cam  to  Falkland,^  which  augmented  the  formar 
suspitioun. 

But  yit  the  letteris  of  Johne  Knox  maid  all  thingis  to  be 
used  more  circumspectlie ;  for  he^  did  planelie  foirwarne  the 
Erie  of  Murray,  that  he  espyed  the  Erie  of  Arrane  to  be 
stricken  with  phrenes}'-,  and  thairfoir  Avilled  not  oure  great 
credytt  to  be  gevin  unto  his  wordis  and  inventionis.     And  as 

1  "  Upon  the  25tb  day  of  March  1562,  in  1710,  speaks  of  "  Hallyairds.  there- 
my  Lordis  of  Arrane,  qnha  was  eldest  sidence  of  a  gentleman  of  the  name  of 
sone  to  James  Duke  of  Chattellarault,  and  Skeen:  a  great  building,  surrounded 
Bothwill,  wer  aggi'eit  be  Johne  Knox  with  gardens,  large  enclosures  and 
minister,  and  thaireftcr  raid  and  spak  planting :  having  large  meadows  to  the 
with  the  Duke."  (Diurnal  of  Occur-  west,  and  a  loch  fertile  of  fish  to  the 
rents,  p.  71.)  "  And  upoun  the  29th  east."  (Hist,  of  Fife,  edit.  1710,  App. 
day  of  March,  my  Lord  of  Arrane  come  p.  3.)  At  the  time  referred  to  by  Knox, 
furth  of  the  Palace  of  Kynneill,  in  ane  it  belonged  to  Sir  William  Kirkaldy  of 
franysy,inthenycht, atanehcichAvyndo,  Grange:  see  vol.  i.  p.  90. 

and  past  to  the  Quenis  Grace  at  Falk-  s  "Upon  the  last  day  of  March  (1662,) 

land,  and  sayd  to    her  that  my  Lord  my  Lord   Bothwill  and   the   Commen- 

Duke  Ills  fader,  and  my  Lord  Bothwill,  datare  of  Kilwynning  wer  commandit 

and  Gawin  Commendatare  of  Kilwyn-  in   ward,  in  the  Palicc  of  Falkland." 

ning,  had  conspirit  aganis  the  Quenis  Diurnal,  p.  71.) 

Grace  and  Lord  James."     (lb.  p.  71.)  *  It  is  a  peculiarity  in  Knox's  chief 

2  Ilallyai-ds,  in  the  parish  of  Aucher-  amanuensis,  always  to  write  "he"  as 
tule  in  Fifeshire.     Sir  Robert  Sibbald,  "  liic." 


loG2.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  329 

he  advertised,  so  it  cam  to  pass ;  for  within  few  dayis  his 
seaknes  increased ;  he  devised  of  wonderouse  signes  that  he 
saw  in  the  heavin  ;  he  alledged  that  lie  was  bewitched  ;  he 
wold  have  bene  in  the  Quenis  bed,  and  affirmed  that  he  was 
hir  husband  ;  and  fynallie,  he  behaved  him  self  in  all  thing-is 
so  foolishelie,  that  his  phrenesy  could  not  be  hyd.  And  yit 
war  the  saidis  Erie  Both  well  and  Abbott  i  of  Kylwynning 
keapt  in  the  Castell  of  Sanctandrois,  and  conventit^  befoir  the 
Counsall,  with  the  said  Earl  of  Arrane,  who  ever  stoode  ferme, 
that  the  Erie  Boithwell  proijoned  to  him  suclie  thingis  as  he 
advertissed  the  Quenis  Grace  of ;  but  styflie  denyed  that  his 
Father,  the  said  Abbote,  or  freindis,  knew  any  thing  thairof, 
eathir  yit  that  thei  intended  any  violence  against  him  ;  but 
alledged,  that  he  was  enchanted  so  to  think  and  wryte. 
Wliairat  the  Queue,  heghlie  otfended,  committed  him  to  prea- 
sone,  with  the  other  two,  first  in  the  Castell  of  Sanctandrois, 
and  thairafter  caused  thame  to  be  convoyed  to  the  Castell  of 
Edinburgh.  James  Stewarte  of  Cardonall,^  called  Capitane 
James,  Avas  evill  bruited  [of],  for  the  rigorous  entreatment 
that  he  scliew  to  the  said  Erie  in  his  seaknes,  being  appointed 
keeper  unto  him. 

To  consult  upoun  these  accusationis,  the  hoill  Counsalle  was 
assembled  at  Sanctandrois,  the  18  day  of  Ajirile,  in  the  year 
of  God  J"^  V,  and  threscoir  twa  yearis  ;^  in  which  it  was  con- 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  Mr.  Gawin,  Abbot,"  tane  of  the  Quenis  gard,"  with  24  horse- 
&c.  men,  convoyed  Arrane,  Bothwell,  and  the 

2  In  MSS.  G,  and  L  4,  "  conveened."  Abbot  of  Kilwinning  from  St.  Andrews 

3  James  Stewart  of  Cardouald,  about  to  Edinburgh.  (Diurnal  of  Occurrents, 
two  miles  from  Paisley,  in  the  county  of  p.  72.) 

Renfi-ew.     In  a  letter  dated  7th  Sep-  <  In  the  Acts  of  the  Privy  Council, 

tember  1561,  Pwandolph  says,  "James  there  is  no  minute  of  any  meeting  held 

Steward's  admission  to  be  Captain  of  on  the  18th  of  April  1562.     But  the  re- 

the   garde,   stayett  upon   the  Lord  of  cords  of  that  time  are  not  very  entire. 

Lidiugton's  retorne,  to  certifye  whether  In  the  Diurnal  of  Occui-rents  it  is  stated, 

he  be  sworue  Englishman."    (Wright's  that  a  Convention  was  appointed  to  be 

Queen  Elizabeth,  vol.  i.  p.  74.)     On  the  held  at  St.  Andrews,  on  the  15th  of  that 

4th  May  1562, «  Capitane  Stewart,  capi-  month,  "  for  taking  tryell  of  the  matter 


330 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


eluded,  that,  in  consideratioun  of  the  fomiar  suspitioun,  the 
Duck  his  Grace  should  render  to  the  Quene  the  Castell  of 
Dumbartane,^  the  custodie  whairof  was  granted  unto  him  by 
appointment,  till  that  lauchfull  successioun  should  be  sein  of 
the  Quenis  body:  But  will  prevailled  against  reassone  and 
promisses,  and  so  was  the  said  Castell  delivered  to  Capitane 
Anstrudour,  as  having  power  fra  the  Quene  and  Counsall  to 
receave  it.^ 

Thingis  ordoured  in  Fyfe,  the  Quene  returned  to  Edinburgh,^ 
and  then  began  dansing  to  grow  bote  ;  for  hir  freindis  began  to 
triumph  in  France.  The  certantie  heirof  came  to  the  earis  of 
Joline  Knox,  for  thair  war  some  that  scliew  to  him,  from  tyme 
to  tyme,  the  estait  of  thingis  ;  and  amangis  otheris,  he  was 
assured,  that  the  Queyne  had  daunced  excessivelie  till  after 
mydnycht,  becaus  that  sche  had  receaved  letteris  that  perse- 
cutioun  was  begun  agane  in  France,  and  that  hir  Uncles  war 


above  written,  and  thair  compeirit  cer- 
tane  Lordis  to  the  samyne ;"  and  that, 
on  the  18th  of  April,  "  My  Lord  Duke 
raid  to  the  Quenis  Grace  in  Sanct- 
androis,  quhairintill  he  purgit  himself 
of  the  conspiracie  foirsaid  in  hir  pre- 
sens." 

*  "  Upon  the  xxvij  day  of  April  (1562) 
the  Castell  of  Dumbartane  wes  deliverit 
be  my  Lord  Duke  toCapitane  .\nstruther, 
in  the  name  and  behalf  of  the  Quenis 
Grace."  (Diui-nal  of  Occurrents,  p.  72.) 
Captain  Robert  Anstruther,  in  the  pre- 
vious year,  had  the  command  of  the  for- 
tified island  of  Lichkeith,  in  the  Frith  of 
Forth,  with"  40  hagbutteris,  remanand 
within  the  saidlnche,"  (Treasurer's  Ac- 
counts.) 

«  At  the  end  of  this  paragraph,  the 
transcriber  of  MS.  L  4,  has  added, 
'•  Thus  farr  Mr.  Knox  in  the  Fourth 
Booke  of  his  Historic.  Let  the  Reader 
compare  this  relation  with  Buchanan's, 
and  follow  his  own  judgement."  In 
like  manner  Calderwood  (Hist.  vol.  ii. 


p.  177,)  says,  "  Thus  I  have  related  this 
part  of  the  Historic,  as  Knox  hath  sett 
it  down  in  the  Fourth  Booke  of  his  His- 
toric. Mr.  Buchanan,  his  relation,  is 
somewhat  different.  He  writeth,"  &c. 
Instead  of  quoting  this  passage,  the 
reader  may  be  referred  to  Buchanan's 
OAvn  work,  in  which  he  ascribes  a  plot 
to  murther  the  Earl  of  Murray,  as 
having  been  devised  by  the  Earl  of  Both- 
well,  upon  finding  that  he  would  not 
join  Bothwell  in  his  first  design  against 
the  Hamiltons. 

'  Queen  Mary  returned  from  her  jour- 
ney and  residence  in  Fife,  to  Edinbiu-gh, 
early  in  May.  Knox  probably  con- 
founded this  absence  from  Edinburgh, 
with  the  Queen's  more  protracted  pro- 
gress in  the  North  in  Autumn,  (see 
page  331.)  which  may  account  for  his 
mistaking  the  precise  time  of  his  second 
communing  with  the  Queen,  which 
actually  took  place  in  December :  see 
next  page,  note  2. 


THE 

SECOUNU 

COMMON- 

NG  OF 


1o62.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  331 

begyning  to  steir  thair  taill,i  and  to  truble  the  hoill  Realme  of 
France.  Upoun  occasioiin  of  this  text,  "  And  now  under-  psa 
stand,  0  ye  kingis,  and  be  learned,  ye  that  judge  the  earth," 
he  began  to  taxt  the  ignorance,  the  vanitie,  and  the  dyspyte 
of  princes  against  all  virtue,  and  against  all  those  in  whom 
haitterent  of  vice  and  love  of  vertew  appeired.^ 

The  reporte  heirof  maid  unto  the  Queue,  the  said  Johne 
Knox  was  send  for.     Mr.  Alexander  Cockburne,^  who  befoir 
had  bene  his  scolare,  and  then  was  very  familiare  with  him, 
was  the  messinger,  Avho  geve  him  some  knowledge  both  of  the 
report  and  of  the  rei^ortairis.     The  Queue  was  in  hir   bed- 
chalmer,  and  with  hir,  besydis  the  Ladyes  and  the  commoun 
servandis,  war  the  Lord  James,  the  Erie  of  Mortoun,  Secrea- 
tarie  Lethingtoun,  and  some  of  the  garde  that  had  maid  the 
report.     He  was  called  and  accused,  as  ane  that  had  irreve 
rentlie  spoken  of  the  Queue,  and  that  travailled  to  bring  hir  in  ^ 
haitterent   and   contempt   of  the   people,    and   that    he    had  with'^t^e"^ 
exceaded  the   boundis    of  his  text :  And  upoun  these  three  ^'^^^^■ 
lieadis,  maid  the  Queue  hir  self  a  long  harangue  or  orisoun  ;* 
Avhairto  the  said  Johne  ansuered  as  followis : — 

"  Madame,  this  is  often  tymes  the  just  recompense  which 
God  geveth  to  the  stubburne  of  the  world,  that  becaus  thei 
Avill  nott  hear  God  speaking  to  the  conforte  of  the  penitent, 
and  for  amendment  of  the  wicked,  thai  are  oft  compelled 
to  hear  the  fals  report  of  otheris  to  thair  greatter  displeasur. 
I  doubt  not  but  that  it  cam  to  the  earis  of  proud  Herode, 

^  In  MS.  G,  "  taills."  one  or  the  other,  yet  did  they  so  depart 

*  Randolph,  in  a  letter  to  Cecil,  dated  as  no  oifense  or  slander  did  rise  there- 

16th    December    1562,    says,    "  upon  on."     We  thus  learn,  that  Knox's  ser- 

Sunday  last  he  (Knox)  inveighed  sore  mon   was  delivered  on   the   13th,  and 

against  the  Queenis  dancing,  and  little  that  the  intervieAV  occm-red  on  the  15th 

exercise  of  herself  in  vertue  and  godli-  December. 

ness.     The  report  hereof  being  brought  ^  In  JMS.  L  4,  "  Patrick  Cockburne.'' 

tuito  her  ears,  yesterday  she  sent  for  him.  See  page  324,  note  3. 

She  talked  long  time  with  him  :  little  *  In  MS.  G,  "  oratioun." 

liking  there  was  between  them,  of  the 


332  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

that  our  Maister  Christ  Jesus  called  him  a  fox ;  but  thai 
told  him  not  how  odiouse  a  thing  it  was  befoir  God  to 
murther  ane  innocent,  as  he  had  laitlie  done  befoir,  causing 
to  behead  Johne  the  Baptiste,  to  reward  the  dansing  of  a 
harlottis  doughtter.  Madam,  yf  the  reportaris  of  my  wordis 
had  bene  honest  men,  thai  wold  have  reaported  my  wordis, 
and  the  circumstances  of  the  same.  But  becaus  thai  wold 
have  credyte  in  Courte,  and  lacking  vertew  worthy  thairof, 
thai  mon  half  somewhat  to  pleise  your  Majestie,  yf  it  war 
but  flatterye  and  lyes.  But  such  pleasour  {yi  any  your 
Grace  tack  in  suclie  personis)  will  turn  to  your  everlasting 
displeasour.  For,  Madam,  yf  your  awin  earis  had  heard  the 
hoill  mater  that  I  entreated ;  yf  thair  be  into  you  any  sparckle 
of  the  Spreit  of  God,  yea,  of  honestie  or  wisdome,  ye  could 
not  justlie  have  bene  offended  with  any  thing  that  I  spack. 
And  becaus  that  ye  have  heard  thair  report,  please  your  Grace 
to  hear  my  self  reherse  the  same,  so  neyr  as  memory  will 
serve."  (It  was  evin  upoun  the  nixt  day  after  that  the  sermon 
was  maid.)  "  My  text,  (said  he,)  Madam,  was  this,  '  And 
now,  0  kings,  understand  ;  be  learned,  ye  judges  of  the  earth.' 
After,  Madam,  (said  he,)  that  I  had  declaired  the  dignitie  of 
kingis  and  reuUaris,  the  honour  whairinto  God  lies  placed 
thame,  the  obedience  that  is  dew  unto  thame,  being  Goddis 
lievtennentis,  I  demanded  this  questioun, — But,  0  allace!  what 
compte  shall  the  most  part  of  princes  maik  befoir  that  Su- 
preme Judge,  whose  throne  and  authoritie  so  manifestlie  and 
schamefullie  thai  abuse  ?  That  the  comj^laynt  of  Salomon  is 
this  day  most  trew,  to  wit,  '  That  violence  and  oppressioun 
do  occupy  the  throne  of  God  here  in  this  earth :'  for  whill 
that  murtheraris,  blood-thrystie  men,  oppressouris,  and  male- 
factouris  dar  be  bold  to  present  thame  selfis  befoir  kingis 
and  princes,  and  the  poor  Sanctis  of  God  are  banisshed  and 
exyled,  what  shall  we  say.  But  that  the  devill  hath  tacken 
posscssioun  in  the  throne  of  God,  wliich  aught  to  be  fearfull  to 


;-.62.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  333 

all  wicked  doiris,  and  a  refug-e  to  the  innocent  oppressed. 
And  how  can  it  otherwyse  be  ?  For  princes  will  not  understand; 
thai  w411  nott  be  learned  as  God  commandis  thame.  But 
Goddis  law  thei  dispyse,  His  statutis  and  holy  ordinances  thei 
will  not  understand  ;  for  in  fidling  and  flynging  thei  ar  more 
exercised  then  in  reading  or  hearing  of  Goddis  most  blessed 
word ;  and  fidlaris  and  flatteraris  (which  commonlie  corrupt 
the  youth)  are  more  pretious  in  thair  eyes  then  men  of  wis- 
donic  and  gravitie,  who  by  holsome  admonitioun  mycht  beat 
doun  into  thame  some  part  of  that  vanitie  and  pryde  wliair- 
intill  all  are  borne,  but  in  princes  tack  [deepe]  roote  and 
strenth  by  wicked  educatioun.  And  of  dansing,  Madam,  I 
said,  that  albeit  in  Scripturis  I  fand  no  praise  of  it,  and  in 
prophane  wryttaris,  that  it  is  termed  the  jesture  rather  of  those 
that  ar  mad  and  in  phrenesye  then  of  sober  men ;  yitt  do  I 
not  utterlie  dampne  it,  provyding  that  two  vices  be  avoided : 
the  formare.  That  the  principall  vocatioun  of  those  that  use 
that  exercise  be  not  neglected  for  the  pleasur  of  dansing ; 
Secoundly,  That  they  daunse  not,  as  the  Philisteanis  thair 
fatheris,  for  the  pleasur  that  thai  tack  in  the  displeasur  of 
Goddis  people.  For  yf  any  of  boyth  thai  do,  as  thai  shall  re- 
ceave  the  reward  of  dansaris,  and  that  willbe  drynk  in  hell, 
onless  thai  spedilie  repent,  so  shall  God  turn  thair  myrth  in 
suddane  sorow :  for  God  will  not  alwayes  afflict  his  people, 
neither  yitt  will  he  alwayes  wynk  at  the  tyranny  of  tyrantis. 
Yf  any  man.  Madam,  (said  he,)  will  say  that  I  spack  more, 
let  him  presentlie  accuse  me ;  for  I  think  I  have  nott  only 
tueiched  the  somme,  but  the  veriy  wordis  as  I  spack  them." 
Many  that  stood  by  bair  witnesse  with  him,  that  he  had 
recyted  the  verray  wordis  that  publictlie  he  spack. 

The  Queyn  looked  about  to  some  of  the  reaportaris,  and  said, 
"  Your  wourdis  ar  scharpe  yneuch  as  ye  have  spocken  thame  ; 
but  yitt  thei  war  tald  to  me  in  ane  uther  manor.  I  know 
(said  sche)  that  my  Uncles  and  ye  ar  nott  of  ane  religioun,  and 


334  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

thairfoirl  can  nott  blame  you  albeit  you  bave  no  good  opiniouu 
of  tliame.  But  yf  ye  bear  any  tiling  of  my  self  tbat  myslyiki« 
you,  come  to  my  self  and  tell  me,  and  I  sball  hear  you/' 

"  Madam/'  quod  he,  "  I  am  assured  tbat  your  Uncles  ar 
enemy es  to  Grod,  and  unto  his  Sone  Jesus  Christ ;  and  that  for 
manteanance  of  thair  awin  pompe  and  worldlie  glorie,  that 
thei  spair  not  to  spill  the  bloode  of  many  innocents ;  and  thair- 
foir  I  am  assured  that  thair  interpryses  shall  have  no  better 
successe  then  otheris  haif  had  that  befoir  thame  have  done 
that  thei  do  now.  But  as  to  your  awin  personage,  Madam, 
I  wold  be  glade  to  do  all  that  I  could  to  your  Graces  content- 
ment, provided  that  I  exceed  nott  the  boundis  of  my  vocatioun. 
I  am  called,  Madam,  to  ane  publict  functioun  within  the 
Kirk  of  God,  and  am  appointed  by  God  to  rebuk  the  synnes 
and  vices  of  all.  I  am  not  appointed  to  come  to  everie  man  in 
particular  to  schaw  him  his  offense ;  for  that  laubour  war  in- 
finite. Yf  your  Grace  please  to  frequent  the  publict  sermonis, 
then  doubt  I  nott  but  tbat  ye  shall  fiillie  understand  boyth 
what  I  like  and  myslike,  als  weall  in  your  Majestie  as  in  all 
otheris.  Or  yf  your  Grace  will  assigne  unto  me  a  certane  day 
and  hour  when  it  will  please  you  to  hear  the  forme  and  sub- 
stance of  doctrin  whiche  is  proponed  in  publict  to  the  Churches 
of  this  Realme,  I  will  most  gladlie  await  upoun  your  Grace's 
pleasur,  tyme,  and  place.  But  to  waitt  i  upoun  5'our  chalmcr- 
doore,  or  ellis  whair,  and  then  to  have  no  farther  libertie  but  to 
whisper  my  mynd  in  your  Grace's  eare,  or  to  tell  to  you  what 
otheris  think  and  speak  of  you,  neather  will  my  conscience  nor 
the  vocatioun  whairto  God  hath  called  me  suffer  it.  For  albeit 
at  your  Grace's  commandimcnt  I  am  heare  now,  yitt  can  not  I 
tell  what  other  men  shall  judge  of  me,  that  at  this  tyme  of  day 
am  absent  from  my  book  and  way  ting  upoun  the  Courte." 

"  You  will  not  alwayis,"  said  sche,  "  be  at  your  book,"  and 
so  turned  hir  back.     And  the  said  Johne  Knox  departed  with  a 

1  111  MS.  G,  "  to  cum  to  wnitt." 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  335 

reasonable  meaiy  countenance  ;  whairat  some  Papistis  offended 
said,  "  He  is  not  efFrayed."  Which  lieard  of  him,  he  answered, 
"  Wliy  shoukl  the  pleasing  face  of  a  gentill  woman  eifray  me  ? 
I  have  looked  in  the  faces  of  many  angrie  men,  and  yit  have 
nott  bene  effrayed  above  measure."  And  so  left  he  the  Queue 
and  the  Courte  for  that  tyme. 

In  this  meanetyme,  the  negotiatioun  and  credytte-^  was  great 
betwix  the  Queue  of  England  and  our  Soverane  :  letteris,  cur- 
reouris,  and  postis  ran  verray  frequent.^  Grreat  bruyt  thair 
was  of  the  interview  and  meating  of  the  two  Queues  at  York, 
and  some  preparatioun  was  maid  thairfoir  in  boyth  the 
Realmes.  But  that  failed  upoun  the  parte  of  England,  and 
that  be  occasioun  of  the  trubles  moved  in  France,  (as  was 
alledged,)  which  caused  the  Quene  and  hir  Counsall  attend 
upoun  the  Sowth  partes^  of  England,  for  avoyding  of  incon- 
venientis. 

That  symmer,  thair  cam  ane  Ambassadour  from  the  King  of 
Swaden,  requyring  marriage  of  our  Soverane  to  his  Maister 
the  King.*  His  intertenment  was  honorable  ;  but  his  petitioun 
lyked  our  Quene  nothing ;  for  such  a  man  was  too  base  for 
hir  estait ;  for  had  nott  sche  beyn  great  Queyn  of  France  ?  Fye 

J   In    MS.  G,    "  and   credytte,"  are  warres  betwix  England  and  France,  the 

omitted.  Quene  came  fi-om  St.  Anch-ews  to  Edin- 

'^  Various   letters  written   by  Queen  biu'gh,  at  what  tyme  she  committed  the 

Mary  to  Queen  Elizabeth  at  this  time  Earl  of  Arran  to  ward  in  the  Castell  of 

are   contained  in  the  Prince  A.  Laba-  Edinbiu-gh."     Calderwood  has    copied 

nofF's  collection :  "Lettres,  Instructions  these  words  verbatim.    (History,  vol.  ii. 

et  iM^moires  de   Marie   Stuart,    Reine  p.  182.) 

d'  Ecosse,"  &c.     Londres,  (Paris)  1844,  *  The  Swedish  Ambassador,    "  Herr 

7  vols.  8vo.     See  also  Keith's  History.  Peter  Groif,"  arrived  in  Leith  on  tlie 

3  In  MSS.  M  and  L  4,  the  words  after  24th  April,  where  he  remained  till  the 

"  Sowth  partes"  are  omitted,  and  the  9th  of  May,  when  the  Queen  came  fi-om 

following  sentence  interpolated.   "  Duke  Fife.     In  Edinburgh  "  he  logeit  in  Mr. 

D'Awmall  had  opened  up  the  English  Harie  Lawder's   lodgeing,   quhairto  he 

Ambassadors    letters,    who    was    then  was  convoyit  honorabill,"  and  departed 

lying  at  Court,  as  wes  reported;   and  on  the  1st  of  June,  "  vrith  his  answer, 

by  his   prociu-ement  an  English   scliip  and  imbarkit  that  uycht  at  ten  houris 

quhairin  another  Ambassador  did  fair,  at  nicht,  and  obtanit  ane  fail-  wynd." 

wes  spoiled.     There  being  appearance  of  (Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  pp.  72,  73.) 


336 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


of  Swaden  !  Wliat  is  it  ?  But  liappy  was  the  man  that  of 
suclie  a  one  was  forsaken.  And  yitt  sclie  refuised  nott  one 
far  inferiour  to  a  vertouse  King.  ^ 

The  Erie  of  Levenax  and  his  wyff^  war  committed  to  the 
Towre  of  London  for  trafiquin  with  Piipistis.  The  young- 
Lard  of  BarrS  was  a  travaler  in  that  busines,  and  was  appre- 
hended with  some  letteris,  which  war  the  cause  of  his  and 
thair  truble. 

The  Erie  of  Murray  maid  a  privey  raid  to  Hawick  upoun 
the  fayre-day  tliairof,  and  apprehended  fyftie  theaffis ;  of 
which  nomber  war  sevintene  drowned  ;*  other! s  war  executed 
in  Jedburght.  The  principallis  war  brought  to  Edinburgh,  and 
thair  suffered,  according  to  thair  merittis,  upoun  the  Burrow 
Mure.5  The  Queue  was  nothing  content  of  the  prosperitie 
and  gude  successe  that  God  gave  to  the  Erie  of  Murray  in  all 


1  The  King  of  Sweden  referred  to 
was  Eric  XIV.,  who  was  born  in  the  year 
1533.  He  was  educated  in  the  Protest- 
ant faith,  and  succeeded  to  the  thi-oue 
on  the  death  of  his  father  Gustayus 
Vasa,  29th  September  1560.  He  was 
unfortunate  in  his  projected  alliances, 
and  also  in  the  latter  part  of  his  career, 
having  been  forced  to  abdicate  in  1 568 ; 
and  he  died  of  poison  in  1578. 

2  Matthew,  fourth  Earl  of  Lennox, 
succeeded  his  father  in  1526.  He  mar- 
ried Lady  Margaret  Douglas,  the 
daughter  of  Archibald  Earl  of  Angus, 
by  his  wife,  Margaret  Queen  of  Scot- 
land, widow  of  James  the  Fourth,  and 
sister  of  Henry  the  Eighth.  Their  son 
Henry  Lord  Darnley,  who  married 
Queen  Mary  of  Scots,  was  born  in  1545. 
The  Earl  of  Lennox  was  elected  Regent 
of  Scotland  11th  July  1570,  but  was 
slain  4th  September  1571.  The  Count- 
ess of  Lennox  died  9th  March  1577,  in 
the  62d  year  of  her  age. 

3  John  Locldiart,  son  of  John  Lock- 
hart  of  Bar  r  in  Ayrshire.  He  was  served 
heir  of  his  father,  10th  May  1575. 


*  The  disturbed  state  of  the  Borders 
called  for  this  summary  act  of  justice. 
According  to  Randolph's  letter,  dated 
7th  July  1562,  there  were  eighty -thi-ee 
persons  apprehended  at  Hawick,  "  of  the 
which  twenty  were  acquitted  by  the 
assize;  the  rest  condemned ;  of  the  which 
twenty-two  were  presently  drowned 
there,  for  lack  of  trees  and  halters ;  six 
hanged  at  Edinburgh,  yesterday  being 
Monday,"  &c.  (Chalmers'  Queen  Mary, 
vol.  iii.  p.  360;  Tytler's  Hist.  vol.  vi. 
p.  259.  But  Chalmers  dates  this  letter 
7th  June;  Tytler,  the  8th  July.) 

^  The  Borough  or  Common  Muir, 
about  a  mile  to  the  south  of  Edinburgh, 
was  of  great  extent,  stretching  from  the 
Pleasance  westward  to  beyond  Mer- 
chiston  Castle.  The  place  where  the  old 
wooden  gallows  stood  for  the  execution 
of  criminals,  according  to  Maitland,  was 
"  on  the  west  side  of  the  Dalkeith  road, 
where  it  is  left  by  the  way  to  Mussel- 
burgh." The  position  was  afterwards 
changed :  see  his  History  of  Edinburgh, 
p.  176,  chap.  177,  respecting  the  Borougli 
Muir. 


1562. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


337 


his  interprjsses,  for  sclie  hated  liis  iiprycht  dealling,  and 
the  image  of  God  which  evidently  did  appear  into  him ;  but 
at  that  tyme  sche  could  not  weall  have  beyn  served  without 
him. 

The  Assemblye  of  the  Kyrk  at  Mydsymmer,  the  [29th]  of 
Junij,!  anno  1562,  approached,  in  the  which  war  many  notable 
headis  entreated  concernying  good  ordour  to  be  keapt  in  the 
Churche ;  for  the  Papistis  and  the  idolatrie  of  the  Queyn  be- 
gan to  truble  the  formar  good  ordouris.     Some  ministeris,  suche  schaupe 

.  LKFT 

as  Maister  Johne  Scharpe,^  had  left  thair  charges,  and  entered  ^^^^^0"'^*^ 
into  other  vocationis  more  profitable  for  the  belly ;  against  "iwE^-f  ^"^ 
whom  war  actis  maid,  althought  to  this  day  thei  have  nott  anno  1.566 

,  .  .  IN  MAIJ. 

bene  putt  m  executioun. 

The  tennour  of  the  Supplicatioun  redd  in  oppen  audience, 
and  approved  by  the  hoill  Assemblye  to  be  presented  to  the 
Quenis  Majestic,  was  this  : — 


1  In  MS.  1566,  "  the  24 ;"  in  MS. 
L  4,  "  the  penult  of  Junij  ;"  in  MS.  M, 
"  the  penult  of  Julie."  The  General  As- 
sembly met  at  Edinburgh  on  the  penult 
or  29th  of  June  1562.  See  the  Booke  of 
the  Universall  Kirk  of  Scotland,  vol.  i. 
p.  13.  It  should  no  doubt  be,  in  "  Mi'. 
Henry  Lawder's  lugeing,"  instead  of 
"  Ml-.  Hendrie  Lands  house,"  (ib.  p.  14,) 
where  the  Assembly  was  held, 

*  Mr.  John  Scharp  was  educated  in 
St.  Leonard's  College,  St.  Andrews, 
having  taken  his  Bachelor's  degree  in 
1555;  and  he  became  a  licentiate  or 
Master  of  Arts  in  1557.  At  the  Refor- 
mation he  appears  to  have  occasionally 
exercised  himself  in  the  office  of  the 
ministry,  without  being  appointed  to 
any  particular  church.  The  want  of 
efiBcient  preachers  to  supply  the  vacant 
charges  rendered  the  General  Assembly 
more  anxious  to  secm-e  the  services  of 
qualified  persons.  On  the  2d  July  1562, 
the  Assembly  "  finding  him  able  to 
preach  the  word  and  minister  the  sacra- 

VOL.  II. 


ments,  as  he  had  done  before  times, 
charged  him  to  re-enter  to  the  ministry, 
the  place  where  he  should  minister 
being  reserved  to  farther  deUberation." 
And  on  the  4th  July,  "  It  was  con- 
cludit  that  Mr.  John  Scharp  should 
re-enter  in  the  ministrio,  and  to  serve 
in  the  kirk  whilk  the  Superintendent  of 
Lothian  should  appoint ;  and  if  he  re- 
fused, that  the  censures  of  the  Kii'k  be 
execute  against  him."  Scharp,  how- 
ever, according  to  the  above  marginal 
note,  became  an  Advocate,  and  long- 
practised  at  the  bar  with  great  suc- 
cess. Mr.  John  Scharp,  Advocate,  had 
a  charter  of  the  lands  of  Houston,  in  the 
shires  of  Edinburgh  and  Linlithgow, 
25th  March  1576.  His  name  occurs  in 
an  Act  of  Parliament,  in  July  1604,  as 
"  Maister  John  Scharp  of  Houston, 
Lawer."  (Acta  Pari.  Scot.  vol.  iii.  p. 
264.)  He  was  one  of  five  persons  con- 
nected with  Scotland  who  were  knight- 
ed by  King  James  at  AVhitehall,  on  the 
17th  December  1604. 


338  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

To  THE  QuENis   Majestie,   and   Hir   Most  Honorable 
Privey  Counsall,   the  Superintendentis  and  Minis- 

TERIS  OF  THE  EvANGELL    OF    JeSUS  ChRIST    WITHIN    THIS 
ReALME,    together    with    the    CoMMISSIONARIS   of    THE 

HoiLL  Churches,!  desyre  Grace  and  Peace  from  God 
THE  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  the 
Spreit  of  rychteouse  judgement. 
Having  in  mynd  that  fearfull  sentence,  pronunced  by  the 
Eternall  God  against  the  watchemen  that  see  the  sweard  of 
Goddis  punishement  approche,  and  do  not  in  plane  wordis  foir- 
warne  the  people,  yea,  the  Princes  and  Reularis,  that  thei  may 
repent,  we  can  not  but  signify  unto  your  Hienes,  and  unto 
your  Counsall,  that  the  estait  of  this  Realme  is  sic  for  this 
present,  that  onless  redress  and  remeady  be  schortlie  provided, 
that  Goddis  hand  can  not  long  spayr  in  his  anger,  to  stryck 
the  head  and  the  taill ;  the  inobedient  Prince  and  synfull 
people  :  For  as  God  is  unchangeable  and  trew,  so  must  he 
punisclie  in  these  our  dayis,  the  grevouse  synnes  that  befoir 
we  read  he  lies  punished  in  all  aiges,  after  that  he  lies  long- 
called  for  reapentance,  and  none  is  schawin. 

And  that  your  Grace  and  Counsall  may  understand  what  be 
the  thingis  we  desyre  to  be  reformed,  we  will  begyn  at  that 
quhilk  we  assuredlie  know  to  be  the  fontane  and  spring  of  all 
other  cvillis  that  now  abound  in  this  Realme,  to  wit,  That  idoll 
and  bastard  service  of  God,  the  Messe  ;  the  fontane,  we  call  it, 
of  all  impietie,  not  only  becaus  that  many  tack  boldnes  to  syn 
be  reassone  of  the  opinioun  which  thei  have  conceaved  of  that 
idoll,  to  wit,  That  by  the  vertew  of  it,  thei  get  remissioun  of 
thair  synnes ;  but  also  becaus  that  under  the  cullour  of  the 
Messe,  are  hoores,  adulteraris,  drunkardis,  blasphemaris  of  God, 
of  His  holy  Word  and  Sacramentis,  and  such  other  manifest 
uialcfactouris,  manteaned  and  defended  :  for  lett  any  Messe- 

'  In  the  Booke  of  tlic  Kirk,  "  of  the  haill  Kirk." 


HAVE  MANY 

FAVOI 

AEIS. 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  339 

sajare,  or  earnest  manteanar  thairof  be  dej^reliended  in  any  of 
the  foirnamed  ciymes,  no  'executioun  can  be  had,  for  all  is  l^^^^^.  ^^j 
done  in  haiterent  of  his  religioun  ;  and  so  are  wicked  men  per-  li^J^joun  m 
mitted  to  live  wickedlie,  clocked  and  defended  by  that  odious  "avoue 
idoll.     But  supposing-  that  the  Messe  war  occasioun  of  no  such 
evillis,  yit  in  the  self  it  is  so  odiouse  in  Goddis  presence,  that 
we  can  not  cease  with  all  instance  to  desyre  the  removing  of 
the  same,  alsweall  frome  your  self  as  from  all  otheris  within 
this  Realme,  tacking  lieavin  and  earth,  yea,  and  your  awin  con- 
science to  record,  that  the  obstinat  manteanance  of  that  idoll 
shall  in  the  end  be  to  you  destructioun  of  saule  and  body. 

Yf  your  Majestic  demand,  why  that  now  we  ar  more  earnest 
then  we  have  bein  heirtofoir;  We  ansuer,  (our  formar  silence  no 
wiese  excused,)  becaus  we  fynd  us  frustrat  of  our  hope  and  ex- 
pectatioun ;  quhilk  was,  that  in  processe  of  tyme,  your  Grace's 
heart  should  have  bein  mollifyed,  so  far  as  that  ye  wold  have 
heard  the  publict  doctrin  taught  within  this  Realme  ;  by  the 
quhilk,  our  farther  hope  was,  that  Goddis  Holy  Spreit  should 
so  have  moved  your  hearte,  that  ye  should  have  suffered  your 
religioun  (quhilk  befoir  God  is  nothing  but  abominatioun  and 
vanitie)  to  have  been  tryed  by  the  trew  tueich-stone,  the 
Avrittin  word  of  God  ;  and  that  your  Grace  fjaiding  it  to  have 
no  ground  nor  fundatioun  in  the  same,  should  have  gevin  that 
glorie  unto  God,  that  ye  wold  have  preferred  his  treuth  unto 
your  awin  preconceaved  vane  opinioun,  of  what  antiquitie  that 
ever  it  hes  bene.  Whairof  we  in  a  parte  now  discoraged2 
cane  no  longer  keape  silence,  onless  we  wold  mack  our  selfis 
criminall  befoir  God  of  your  blood,  perisheing  in  your  awin 
iniquitie ;  for  we  plainlie  admonishe  you  of  the  dangearis  to 
come. 

The  Secound  that  we  requyre,  is  punishement  of  horrible 
vices,  sic  as  ar  adultery,  fornicatioun,  open  hurdome,  blasphemye, 

1  lu  MS.  G,  "  These  cause ;"  MS.  L  ^InMS.  G,  "discbarged."  lutheBook 

4,  "  This  causethe."  of  thcKirk,andMS.L4,  "(.lisappomted.'" 


340  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

OK  THE^^'^*^  contempt  of  God,  of  his  Word,  and  Sacramentis ;  quhilkis  in 
NOBiLiTiE  ^Yiis  Realme,  for  lack  of  punishement,  do  evin  now  so  abound, 
ofn^EK^^  tliat  sjne  is  reputed  to  be  no  syne.  And  thairfoir,  as  tliat  Ave 
see  tlie  present  signes  of  Goddis  wratli  now  manifestlie  appear, 
so  do  we  foirwarne,  that  he  will  stryck,  or  it  be  long,  yf  his  law 
without  punishement  be  permitted  thus  manifestlie  to  be  con- 
tempned.  Yf  any  object,  that  punishementis  can  nott  be  com- 
manded to  be  executed  without  a  Parliament ;  We  answer  that 
the  eternall  God  in  his  Parliament  has  pronounced  death  to 
be  the  punishement  for  adulterye  and  for  blasphemye  ;  whose 
actis  yf  ye  putt  not  to  executioun,  (seing  that  Kingis  ar  but 
his  lieutennentis,  having  no  power  to  geve  lyefe,  whair  he  com- 
mandis  death,)  as  that  he  will  reputt  you,  and  all  otheris  that 
foster  vice,  patronis  of  impietie,  so  will  he  nott  faill  to  punishe 
you  for  neglecting  of  his  judgementis. 

Our  Third  requeast  concerneth  the  Poore,  who  be  of  thre 
sortis :  the  poore  lauboraris  of  the  ground  ;  the  poore  desolat 
beggaris,  orphelyns,  wedoes,  and  strangaris ;  and  the  poore 
ministei'is  of  Christ  Jesus  his  holie  evangell,  quhilk  ar  all  so 
crewallie  entreated  by  this  last  pretended  Ordour  tacken  for 
sustentatioun  of  Ministeris,  that  thair  latter  miserie  far  sur- 
monteth  the  formar.  For  now  the  poore  lauboraris  of  the 
ground  ar  so  oppressed  by  the  creualtie  of  those  that  jDay  thair 
Thrid,  that  tliey  for  the  most  parte  advance  upoun  the  poore,^ 
whatsoever  they  pay  to  the  Queue,  or  to  any  other.  As  for 
the  verray  indigent  and  poore,  to  whome  God  commandis  a 
sustentatioun  to  be  provided  of  the  Teyndis,  they  ar  so  dyspised, 
that  it  is  a  wonder  that  the  sone  geveth  heat  and  \jcht  to  the 
earth,  whair  Godis  name  is  so  frequentlie  called  upoun,  and 
no  mercy  (according  to  his  commandiment)  schawin  to  his 
creaturis.  And  also  for  the  Ministeris,  thair  lyvingis  ar  so 
appointed,  that  the  most  parte  shall  lyve  but  a  beggaris  lyef 
And  all  cumeth  of  that  impietie,  that  the  idill  bellies  of  Christis 
ennemyes  mon  be  fedd  in  thair  formare  delicacie. 


ir>62.  THE   REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  341 

We  dar  nott  conccall  frome  your  Grace  and  Honouris  our 
conscience,  quliilk  is  this,  That  neatlier  by  the  law  of  God, 
ncather  yitt  by  any  just  law  of  man,  is  any  thing  dew  unto 
thame,  who  now  most  creuellie  do  exact  of  the  poore  and  riche 
the  Two  partes  of  thair  Benefices,  as  they  call  thame :  And 
thairfoir  we  most  humblie  requyre,  that  some  other  Ordour  may 
be  tacken  with  thame,  nor  that  thei  be  sett  up  agane  to  impyre 
above  the  people  of  God,  eathir  yitt  above  any  subject  within 
this  Realme.  For  we  fear  that  sic  usurpatioun  to  thair  formar 
estaite  be  neather  in  the  end  pleasing-  to  thame  selfis,  nor 
profitable  to  thame  that  wold  place  thame  in  that  tyrannye. 
Yf  any  think  that  a  comi3etent  lyving  is  to  be  assigned  to 
thame,  we  repugne  not,  provided  that  the  Lauboraris  of  the 
ground  be  nott  oppressed,  the  Poore  be  nott  utterlie  neglected, 
and  the  Ministeris  of  the  word  so  scharplie  entreated  as  now 
thay  ar.  And,  finallie,  that  those  idill  bellies,  who  by  law  can 
crave  nothing,  shall  confesse  that  thei  receave  thair  sustenta- 
tioun,  nott  of  debt,  but  as  of  benevolence.  Our  humble  requeast 
is  thairfoir,  that  some  suddane  ordour  may  be  tacken,  that  the 
poore  Lauboraris  may  fynd  some  releaf,  and  that  in  everie 
parochine  some  j^orfcioun  of  the  Teyndis  may  be  assigned  to  the 
sustentatioun  of  the  Poore  within  the  same ;  and  lykwise  that 
some  publict  releaf  may  be  provided  for  the  Poore  within 
Broughtis ;  that  collectouris  may  be  appointed  to  gatther,  and 
that  scharpe  comptis  may  be  tacken,  alsweall  of  thair  receat  as 
of  thair  deliverance.  The  farther  consideratioun  to  be  had  to 
our  Ministeris,  we  in  some  parte  remitt  to  your  Wisdom es, 
and  unto  th^r  particular  complayntis. 

Oure  Fourt  petitioun  is  for  the  mansses,  yardis,  and  gleibes, 
justlie  apperteanyng  to  the  Ministeris,  without  the  quhilkis  it 
is  unpossible  unto  thame  quyetly  to  serve  thair  chargeis  ;  and 
thairfoir  we  desyi'e  ordour  to  be  tacken  thairinto  without 
delay. 

Oure  Fvft   concerneth  the   inobedience   of  ccrtane    wicked 


342  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

personis,  who  not  onlie  truble,  and  liave  tmbled  Ministeris  in 
thair  fimctioiin,  but  also  disobey  tlie  Superinteudentis  in  thair 
visitatioun  ;  whairof  we  liumblj^e  crave  remeady  ;  whidi  we  do 
not  so  mucli  for  any  fear  that  we  and  our  Ministeris  have  of 
the  Papistis,  but  for  the  love  that  we  bear  to  the  commoun 
tranquillitie.  For  this  we  can  not  hyd  from  your  Majestie 
and  Counsall,  that  yf  the  Papistis  think  to  triumphe  whair 
thai  may,  and  to  do  what  thai  list,  whair  thair  is  not  a  partie 
able  to  resist  thame,  that  some  will  think,  that  the  godlie  mon 
begyn  whair  thai  left,  who  heirtofoir  have  borne  all  thingis 
patientlie,  in  hope  that  Lawes  should  have  brydilled  the  wick- 
ed ;  whairof  yf  thai  be  frustrat,  (albeit  that  nothing  be  more 
odiouse  to  thame  then  tumultis  and  domesticall  discord,)  yit 
will  men  attempt  the  uttermost,  befoir  that  in  thair  awin  eyes 
thai  behold  that  House  of  God  demolisshed,  quhilk  with  travaill 
and  danger  God  hath  within  this  Realme  erected  by  thame. 

Last,  "We  desyre  that  sick  as  have  receaved  remissioun  of 
thair  Tliriddis  be  compelled  to  susteane  the  Ministerie  within 
thair  boundis,  or  ellis  we  foirwarne  your  Grace  and  Counsall, 
that  we  fear  that  the  peojile  shall  reteane  the  hoill  in  thair 
handis,  unto  sic  tjiwe  as  thair  ministery  be  sufficientlie  pro- 
%nded.  We  farther  desyre  the  kirkis  to  be  repared  according- 
to  ane  Act  set  fiirth  by  the  Lordis  of  Secreat  Counsall,  befoir 
your  Majesties  arryvall  in  this  countrey  :  That  Judges  be  ap- 
pointed to  hear  the  causes  of  divorsement ;  for  the  Kirk  can  no 
longare  sustean  that  burthen,  especiallye  becaus  thair  is  no 
punishement  for  the  oiFendars  :  That  sayeris  and  heararis  of 
Messe,  prophanaris  of  the  Sacramentis,  such  as  have  entered 
in  [to]  benefices  by  the  Papis  bulles,  and  such  otheris  trans- 
gressouris  of  the  LaAv  maid  at  your  Grace's  ariyvall  within  this 
Realme,  may  be  seveirlie  punished ;  for  ellis  men  will  think 
that  thair  is  no  treuth  mont  in  macking  of  sick  Lawis. 

Farther,  We  most  humljlyc  desyre  of  your  Grace  and  Ho- 
norable Counsall,  a  resolut  ansuer  to  everie  ane  of  the  headis 


L'562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  343 

foirwritten,  that  the  same  being  knawin,  we  may  somewhat 
satisfie  such  as  be  grevouslie  oifended  at  manifest  iniquitie 
now  manteaned,  at  oppressioun  under  pretext  of  Law  done 
against  the  poor,  and  at  the  rebelliouse  disobedience  of  many 
wicked  personis  against  Godis  word  and  holy  ordinance. 

God  the  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  so  reull  your 
heartis,  and  direct  your  Grace  and  Counsallis  judgementis  by 
the  dyttament  and  illuminatioun  of  his  Holy  Spreit,  that  ye 
may  ansuer  so  as  that  your  consciences  may  be  absolved  in  the 
presence  of  that  rychteous  Judge,  the  Lord  Jesus ;  and  tlien 
we  doubt  nott  but  ye  your  selfis  shall  fynd  felicitie,  and  this 
poor  Realme,  that  long  lies  bene  oppressed  by  wicked  men, 
shall  enjoy  tranquillitie  and  rest,  with  the  treu  knowledge 
of  God. 

These  thingis  redd  in  publict  Asscmblie,!  as  said  is,  war  ap- 
proved of  all,  (and  some  wissed  that  moir  scharpness  had  bene 
used,  becaus  that  the  tyme  so  craved,)  but  the  monzeoris  of 
the  Court,  and  Secreatarie  Lethingtouu  abuf  otheris,  could  not 
abyd  such  hard  speiking  ;  "  For  who  ever  saw  it  writtin  (said 
he)  to  a  Prince,  That  God  wold  stryck  the  head  and  the  taill : 
That  yf  Papistis  did  what  thei  list,  men  wold  begyn  whair  thei 
left.''  But  abuf  all  otheris  that  was  most  offensyve,  that  the 
Queue  was  accused,  as  that  sche  wold  raise  up  Papists  and 
Papistrie  agane.  To  put  that  in  the  people's  head  was  no  less 
then  treassone  ;  for  oathes  durst  be  maid^  that  sche  never 
ment  such  thing.  To  whom  it  was  ansured,  "  That  the  Pro- 
phete  Esaias  used  such  maner  of  speiking;  and  it  Avas  no  doubt  ksai. 
but  he  was  weill  acquented  in  the  Court :  for  it  was  supposed  ansueee 

C       T  T-r.  .  I  T,  1  -^  ^  TO  LETH- 

he  was  oi  the  Kmgis  stock.     But  howsoever  it  was,  his  wordis  i-^gton. 
mack  manifest,  that  he  spaek  to  the  Court  and  Courteouris,  to 
Judges,  Ladies,  Princes,  and  Preastis :    And  yit,   (sayes  he,) 
"The  Lord  shall  cut  away  the  head  and  the  taill,"  &c.     "And 

'  At  the  Gth  Sess.,  4th  July.  2  In  MS.  G,  "  wer  maid." 


344  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

SO,"  said  the  first  wryttar,  "  I  fynd  tliat  such  phrase  was  ones 
used  befoir  us.  .  And  yf  this  offend  you,  that  we  say,  '  Men 
maun  begyn  whair  thei  left,'  in  case  that  Papistis  do  as  thei 
do ;  we  wold  desyre  you  to  teaclie  us,  not  so  much  how  we 
shall  speak,  hut  rather  what  we  shall  do,  when  our  Ministeris 
ar  strycken,  our  Superintendentis  disobeyed,  and  a  plane  re- 
bellioun  decread  against  all  good  ordour."  "  Complean,"  said 
Lethingtoun.  "  Whom  to  V  said  the  other.  "  To  the  Quenis 
Majestic,"  said  he.  "  How  long  shall  we  do  so  ?"  quod  the 
whole.  "  Till  that  ye  get  remeady,"  said  the  Justice  Cleark  : 
"  geve  me  thair  names,  and  I  shall  geve  you  letteris."  "  Yf 
the  shepe,"  said  one,  "  shall  compleane  to  the  wolf,  that  the 
wolves  and  whelpis  lies  devoured  thair  lambis,  the  compleanar 
may  stand  in  danger ;  but  the  offendar,  avc  feare,  shall  have 
libertie  to  hunt  after  his  prey."  "  Sic  cornparisonis,"  said 
Lethingtoun,  "  are  -verray  unsaverie  ;  for  I  am  assured,  that 
the  Quene  will  neather  erect,  nor  yit  manteane  Papistrie." 
"  Let  your  assurance,"  said  ane  other,  "  serve  your  self,  but  it 
can  not  assure  us,  for  hir  manifest  proceadings  speakis  the 
central  r." 

After  sick  tanting  reassonyng  of  boyth  the  sydis,  the  multi- 
tude concluded,  that  the  Supplicatioun,  as  it  was  conceaved, 
should  be  presented,  onless  that  the  Secreatarie  wold  forme 
one  more  aggreable  to  the  present  necessitie.  He  promest  to 
.  keap  the  substance  of  ouris,  but  he  wold  use  other  termes,  and 
ask  thingis  in  a  mair  gentill  maner.  The  first  writtar  ansured, 
"  That  he  served  the  Kirk  at  thair  commandiment,  and  was  con- 
tent, that  in  his  dictament  should  men  use  the  libertie  that 
best  i^leased  thame,  provided  that  he  was  not  compelled  to 
subscryve  to  the  flatterie  of  such  as  more  regarded  the  per- 
sonis  of  men  and  women,  then  the  simple  treuth  of  God." 
And  so  was  this  formar  Supplicatioun  gevin  to  be  reformed  as 
Lethingtounis  wisdomc  thought  best.  And  in  verray  deid  he 
framed  it  so,  that  when  it  was  delivered  by  the  Superinten- 


15(52. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


345 


dentis  of  Lothcane  and  Fyfo,  and  when  that  sche  liad  redd 
somewhat  of  it,  sche  said,  "  Here  ar  many  fair  wordis :  I  can 
not  toll  what  the  heart  is  ar."  And  so  for  our  paynted  oratory  e, 
we  war  termed  the  nixt  name  to  ilatteraris  and  dissemhlaris. 
But  for  that  Sessioun  the  Kirk  receaved  none  other  ansuer. 

Schort  afteri  the  conventioun  of  the  Kirk,  chansed  that  un-  johnk  gou- 

DOUN  AND 

happy  persuyt  Avhilk  Johnne  Gordoun,  Laird  of  Fynlater,--  maid  ogilby. 
upoun  the  Lord  Ogilby,^  who  was  evill  hurt,  and  almost  yit 
ahydis  mutilat.  The  occasioun  was,  for  certane  landis  and 
rights,  quhilkis  old  Fyndlater  had  resigned  to  the  said  Lord, 
which  he  was  perseuing,  and  was  in  appearance  to  obteane  his 
purpose.  Whairat  the  said  Johne  and  his  servandis  war 
offended,  and  thairfoir  maid  the  said  persuyt,  upoun  a  Setter- 
day,  at  nycht,  betwix  nyne  and  ten.  The  freindis  of  the  said 
Lord  war  eather  not  with  him,  or  ellis  not  weall  willing  to 
feght  that  nycht ;  for  thei  took  straikis,  but  geve  few  that  left 


'  As  mentioned  in  the  pi-evious  page 
337,  Knox  has  mistaken  the  time  when 
the  General  Assembly  met,  and  in  this 
way  he  probably  committed  the  mistake 
of  saying,  "  Schort  after,"  instead  of 
"  Short  before  the  Conventioun."  The 
meetings  of  the  Assembly  were  from 
Jlonday  the  29th  June,  till  Saturday  the 
4th  July  1562.  The  above  conflict  took 
place  on  Satm-day  the  27th  June.  The 
Magistrates  having  apprehended  and 
imprisoned  Gordon  of  Finlater,  and  or- 
dered two  of  the  Ogilvies  to  be  kept  in 
ward,  they  sent  a  messenger  to  the 
Queen,  who  was  then  in  Stirling,  to  ob- 
tain her  instructions.  The  Queen's  let- 
ter, dated  penult  of  June,  is  preserved  in 
the  Council  Register,  and  is  printed  by 
Keith.  (Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  156.)  But  Sir 
.lohn  Gordon,  as  Knox  mentions,  soon 
afterwards  made  his  escape  to  the 
North. 

^  Sir  John  Gordon  was  thii-d  son  of 
George  fourth  Earl  of  Huntley.  Alex- 
ander Ogilvy  of  Ogilvy,  in  1545,  having 


ilisiuherited  his  son  James  Ogilvy  of 
Cardell,  settled  his  estates  of  Finlater 
and  Deskford  upon  John  Gordon,  who 
assumed  the  name  of  Ogilvie,  which  was 
the  occasion  of  the  animosity  that  ex- 
isted between  the  two  families.  James 
Ogilvy  of  Cardell  had  been  in  France, 
and  was  Master  of  the  Household  of 
Queen  Mary.  He  was  now  endeavouring 
to  recover  possession  of  his  father's 
estates.  The  claim  between  the  rival 
families  of  Gordon  and  Ogilvy  having 
at  length  been  referred  to  arbitration, 
the  estates  of  Deskford  and  Finlater, 
in  1566,  were  afiirmed  to  James  Ogilvy, 
the  ancestor  of  the  Earls  of  Finlater ; 
and  this  award  was  ratified  in  Parlia- 
ment, 19th  April  1567. 

^  According  to  most  accoimts  James 
sixth  Lord  Ogilvy  of  Airly  was  so  se- 
verely wounded  in  this  conflict,  on  the 
27th  June  1562,  that  his  life  was  con- 
sidered to  be  in  imminent  danger;  but 
he  recovered  and  survived  till  the  year 
1606. 


34G  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

raarkis.  The  said  Johne  was  tane,  and  put  in  the  Tolbuyth, 
whair  he  remanent  certane  dayis,  and  then  brack  his  warde, 
some  judged,  at  his  fatheris  commandiment ;  for  he  Avas  mack- 
ing  preparatioun  for  tlie  Quenis  cuming  to  the  North,  as  we 
will  after  hear. 

The  interview  and  meating  of  the  two  Quenis,  delayed  till 
the  nixt  year,  oure  Soverane  took  purpose  to  visyt  the  North, 
and  departed  from  Striveliug  in  the  moneth  of  August. 
Whitther  thair  was  any  secreat  pactioun  and  confederacye 
betwix  the  Papist  is  in  the  South,  and  the  Erie  of  Huntley  and 
his  Papist  is  in  the  North ;  or,  to  speak  more  planelie,  betwix 
the  Queue  hir  self  and  Huntley,  we  can  not  certanlie  say.l 
But  the  suspitionis  war  wounderous  vehement,  that  thair  was 
no  good  will  borne  to  the  Erie  of  Murray,  nor  yit  to  such  as 
deiDended  upoun  him  at  that  tynie.  The  History  we  shall 
faythfullie  declair,  and  so  leave  the  judgement  free  to  the 
readaris. 

That  Johne  Grordoun  brack  his  ward,  we  have  already  heard, 
who  immediately  thairafter  reapared  to  his  father  George,  then 
Erie  of  Huntley  ;^  and  understanding  the  Quenis  cuming,  maid 
graite  proA^sioun  in  Strabogye,  and  in  other  partis,  as  it  war 
to  receave  the  Queue.  At  Aberdene  the  Queue  and  Court 
remaned  certane  dayis  to  deliberat  upoun  the  affaires  of  the 
countrey  ;  whair  some  began  to  smell,  that  the  Erie  of  Huntley 
was  under  gatthering,  as  heirefter  slialbe  declaired. 

Whill  thingis  war  so  wyrking  in  the  North,  the  Erie  Both- 
well  brack  his  ward,  and  cam  furth  of  the  Castell  of  Edinburgh, 

'  In  MS.  G,  "  certanely  affirme."  Chancellor.  He  obtained  in  1549  a 
2  George  fourth  Earl  of  Huntley  sue-  grant  of  the  Earldom  of  Murray,  but 
ceeded  his  grandfather  in  1524.  He  this  he  was  forced  to  resign  in  1559. 
became  a  favourite  of  King  James  the  The  estates  and  dignities  of  Mar  and 
Fifth,  "with  whom  he  had  been  educated.  Mui-ray  ha^•ing  afterwards  been  con- 
He  was  admitted  a  Privy  Councillor  in  ferred  upon  Lord  James  Stewart,  this 
1-5.35,  and  was  constituted  Lieutenant-  served  to  encreasetho^efatal  dissensions 
General  of  the  North  in  1540.  In  1546  which  ultimately  led  to  the  Earl's  death, 
he  succeeded  Cardinal  Beaton  as  Lord  at  Coi-richie,  on  the  28th  October  1502. 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  347 

the  28th  of  August.  Some  say  that  lie  brack  the  stancheour  of 
the  Avjntlo  ;  utheris  whispered,  tliat  he  gat  easye  passage  by 
the  yettis.  One  thing  is  certane,  to  wit,  The  Queue  was  litill 
offended  at  his  eschaiping.  Thair  passed  with  liini  a  servand 
of  the  Capitane's,  named  James  Porterfield.  The  said  Erie 
schew  him  self  not  verray  aifrayed,  for  his  commoun  residence 
was  in  Lowthean.  The  Bischope  of  Sanctandrois  and  Abbot 
of  Crosraguell  keapt  secreat  conventioun  that  same  tyme  in 
Paslay,  to  whom  resorted  diverse  Papistis ;  yea,  the  said 
Bischope  spack  the  Duck,  unto  whom  also  cam  the  Lord  Gor- 
don from  the  Erie  of  Huntley,  requyring  him  "  to  putt  to  his 
handis  in  the  South,  as  he  should  do  in  the  North  ;  and  so  it  ^f^^,,^;*^^ 
should  not  be  Knoxis  crying  nor  preaching  that  should  .^^"^^pfQ^.y. 
stay  that  purpose."  The  Bischope,  be  he  never  so  close,  could 
not  altogether  hyd  his  niynd,  but  at  his  awin  table  said,  "  The 
Quene  is  gone  into  the  North,  belyke  to  seak  disobedience : 
sche  may  perchance  fynd  the  thing  that  sche  seikis."  It  was 
constantlie  affirmed,  that  the  Erie  Bothwell  and  the  said  Lord 
Gordon  spack  together,  but  of  thair  purpoise  we  heard  no 
mentioun. 

That  same  year,  and  at  that  instant  tyme,  war  appointed  h^j'^^^ri.;. 
Commissionaris  by  the  Generall  Assemblie  to  Carryk  and 
Cunighame,  Maister  George  Hay,  who,  the  space  of  a  moneth 
preached  with  great  fruct  in  all  the  churches  of  Carryk.  To 
Kyle,  and  to  the  partis  of  Galloway  was  appointed  Johnne 
Knox,  who  besyde  the  doctrine  of  the  evangell  schawen  unto 
the  commoun  people,  foinvarned  some  of  the  Nobilitie  and 
Baronis  of  the  dangearis  that  he  feared,  and  that  war  appear- 
ing schortlie  to  follow ;  and  exhorted  thame  to  put  tliame  selfis 
in  sic  ordour  as  that  thei  mycht  be  able  to  serve  the  autho- 
ritie,  and  yit  not  to  suffer  the  ennemeis  of  Goddis  treuth  to 
liave  the  upper  hand.  Whairupoun  a  great  part  of  the  Baronis 
and  Gentilmen  of  Kyle  and  Cunynghame  and  Carrik,  pro- 
fessing the  treu  doctrine  of  the  evangell,  assembled  at  Ayre ; 


348  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

and  after  exliortationis  maid,  and  conference  had,  subscrivit 
this  Band.     The  tennour  whairof  followis  : — 

We,  "whais  Names  are  undenvrittin,  do  promesse,  in  the  pre- 
sence of  God,  and  in  the  presence  of  his  Sone  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  that  we,  and  everie  ane  of  us,  sliall  and  will  manteane 
and  assist  the  preaching  of  his  holy  Evangell,  now  of  his 
mear  mercy,  offered  unto  this  Realme  ;  and  also  will  manteane 
the  ministeris  of  the  same  against  all  personis,  power,  and 
authoritie,  that  will  oppone  the  self  to  tlie  doctrin  proponed, 
and  by  us  receaved.  And  farther,  with  the  same  solempnitie, 
we  protest  and  promesse,  that  everie  ane  of  us  shall  assist 
otheris ;  yea,  and  the  hoill  body  of  the  Protestantis  within  this 
Realme,  in  all  lauchfull  and  just  actionis,  against  all  personis  ; 
so  that  whosoeA^er  shall  hurt,  molest,  or  truble  ony  of  our  body, 
shalbe  reaputed  ennemye  to  the  hoill,  except  that  the  offendar 
wilbe  content  to  submit  him  self  to  the  judgement  of  the 
Kirk,  now  establisshed  amangis  us.  And  this  we  do,  as  we 
desyre  to  be  accepted  and  favored  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  and 
reaccompted  worthy  of  credyte  and  honestie  in  the  presence 
of  the  godlie.  At  the  Brough  of  Air,  the  ferd  day  of  Septem- 
ber, the  year  of  Grod  J"  V  threscoir  twa  zeiris. 

Subscrivit  by  all  these  with  thair  liandis,  as  followis : — 

Mr.  Michaell  Wallace,  Pro-  Glexcarne,^ 

vest  of  Air/  Ro.  Boyd,  5 

James  Lockart,'^  R.  Failfurd,^ 

WiLLiAME  Montgomery,  Matthew  Campbell  of  Low- 
JoHNNE    Craufurd    of   Wol-  den,  knyght, 

stoun,3  Allane  Lord  Caythcart, 

1  The  Provost  of  Ayr  was,  no  doubt,  ^  Alexander  fourth  Earl  of  Glencairn. 

Wallace  of  Holmstone,  on  the  south  bank  ^  Robert  fourth  Lord  Boyd :  see  page 

of  the  river,  about  a  mile  from  the  town.  259,  note  7. 

^Probably  Sir  James  Lockhart  of  Lee.  •>  Robert   Cunningham,   minister    of 

^  Or  Walston,  parish  of  Tarbolton.  Failfurd  :  see  a  subsequent  note. 


ir,(i2. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


340 


JoHNNE  Mure  in  Wole, 
Hew  Wallace  of  Carnell, 
James  Chalmer  of  Gatligirth, 
Hew  Montgomery  of  Heslieil- 

liead, 
JoHNNE  Fullartoun  of  Drog- 

liorne, 

I   WiLLIAME  CUNYGHAME,  witll 

mj  liand, 
Skeldoun,'^ 
Fargushill,2 
Mr.  or  BoYD,3 
Johnne  Logkart  of  BaiT, 
Williame  Cunyghame  of  Cap- 

ringtoun  younger, 
Robert  Ker  of  Carsland, 
Robert  Crawfurd, 
David  Crawfurd, 
Williame  Cunyghame, 
Charles  Campbell,  Burgess  of 

Air, 
James  Dalrymple  of  Stayre, 
MuNGO  Mure, 
James  Reid, 

James  Kennedy,  Burgess  of  Air, 
George   Logkart,    Burgess 

thair, 


Johne  Cunynghame  of  Cap- 

ringtoun, 
Cunynghamheid,4 
Vchiltrie,^ 
George   Craufurd   of  Lef- 

noreise, 
Johne  Mure  of  Rowallane, 
Hew  Cunyghame  of  Watter- 

stoun, 
Robert  Cunyghame, 
Akynharvye,^ 
Myddiltoun,7 
Johne  Wallace  of  Cragie, 
Johne  Boyd  of  Narstoun, 
Robert  Campbell  of  King- 

zeanclewcht, 
Gilbert  Eccles, 
Thomas    Caythcarte,    with 

my  hand, 
Allane  Caithcart  of  Cla- 

wance,8 
Adam    Reyd    of   Barskym- 

ming, 
Johnne  Caithcart  of  Gibis- 

zard,9 
Johne  Reid,  with  my  hand, 
Johne     .     .     .10 


^  William  Campbell  of  Skeldon,  in  the 
pai-isb  of  Dalrymple. 

-  John  Fergushill  of  Fergusbill,  in  the 
parish  of  Kilwinning. 

3  Robert  Master  of  Boyd.  He  pre- 
deceased his  father  Lord  Boyd. 

*  Sir  William  Cunningham  of  Cun- 
ninghamhead. 

*  Andrew  second  Lord  Stewart  of 
Ochiltrie. 


*  In  the  list  this  appears  as  a  distinct 
name,  but  Robert  Cunningham  was 
Laird  of  Auchinharvy. 

^  The  Laird  of  IMiddleton  was  also  a 
Cunningham. 

^  Or  Clavanes,  parish  of  Dundonald. 

9  Or  Gibb's-yard. 

'"  In  all  the  copies  of  Knox  this  name 
is  left  blank,  his  transcriber  m  1566 
apparently  being  unable  to  decypher  it. 


350 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV 


Robert  Schaw,  Burgess  tliair, 
JoHNNE  Dunbar  of  Blantyrc, 
Robert  Chalmer  of  Mart- 

nem,^ 
Robert  Huntar  of  Huntars- 

toun, 
Robert  Rankin, 
Archibald  Boyle, 
Alexander  Ntsbett, 
James  Lockart, 
Williame  Stewart  of  Halrig, 
Hectour  Dunbar  of  Clous  ting, 
James  Campbell  of  Louclilej, 
Adam    Caithcart    of   Barda- 

roclit, 
George  Ryd  of  Cliapellliouse, 
Hew  Wallace  of  tlieMeanfurd, 
Robert  Campbell  of  Cragdow, 
Andro  Neven  of  Monkredden, 
Williame  Caithcart, 
David  Craufurd  of  the  Kerse, 
JoHNNE    Kennydye   of  Tem- 

gauoclie, 
Patrik   Kennydie   of   Dalja- 

roclit,2 
Allane  Caithcart  of  Carlton. 


Robert  Boyd  of  Pemont,^ 
Williame  Campbell  of  Hors- 

clewclit,* 
Williame   Caithcart,   bro- 
ther to    the  Lord  Caith- 
cart, 

JoHNNE  MaCQUHIDAILL, 

George  Corry  of  Kelwod, 
Williame  Kennydie  of 

Ternganocht, 
JoHNNE  Kennydie  of  Kirk- 

michaell, 
Thomas  MackAlexander  of 

Corsclais.5  * 


'  Or  Martinham,  parish  of  Dalrymple. 

*  Or  Daljarrock,  pai-ish  of  Colmonell. 
^  Or  Piedmont. 

*  Or  Horsecleuch,  in  the  parish  of 
Cumnock,  a  designation  assumed  by  the 
Campbells  of  Skerrington,  although 
probably  at  first  by  a  distinct  bi-ancli 
of  the  family. 

'^  Or  Corseclays,  in  the  paiish  of  Col- 
monell. 


*  In  MS.  G,  at  the  end  of  this  list  of 
names  is  added,  "  With  many  uther 
Gentilmen  of  worth,  and  Burgesses." 
In  MS.  L  4,  the  list  is  dated,  the  3d  of 
September ;  but  the  names  of  the  Sub- 
scribers of  this  Bond  are  onlj^  partially 
given ;  but  adding  these  words,  "  with 
an  hundrcth  more  gentlemen,"  &c.  Cal- 
dcrwood  also  gives  a  similar  abridged 
list.     (Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  202.) 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  351 

Tliese  tliingis  done  at  Ayr,  the  said  Joline  passed  to  Nethis- 
daill  and  Galloway,  whair,  in  conference  with  the  Maister  of 
Maxwellji  a  man  of  great  judgment  and  experience,  he  com- 
municat  with  him  such  tliingis  as  he  feared ;  who  by  his  mo- 
tioun  wraytt  to  the  Erie  Bothwell,  to  behave  himself  as  it  be- 
came a  faythfull  subject,  and  to  keape  good  quyetness  in  the 
jsartis  committed  to  his  charge,  and  so  wold  his  cryme  of  the 
breaking  of  the  ward  be  the  more  easelie  pardoned.  Johne 
Knox  wrait  unto  the  Dukis  Grace,  and  earnestlie  exhorted 
him  neather  to  geve  eare  to  the  Bischope^  his  bastard  brother, 
nor  yit  to  the  persuasionis  of  the  Erie  of  Huntley ;  for  yf  he 
did,  he  assured  him,  that  he  and  his  House  should  come  to  a 
suddane  ruyn. 

By  such  meanis  war  the  South  partis  keapte  in  reassonable 
quyetness,  during  the  tyme  that  the  trubles  war  in  brewing  in 
the  North.  And  yit  the  Bischoj)e  and  the  Abbote  of  Corsra- 
guell,3  did  what  in  thame  lay  to  have  rased  some  truble ;  for 
besydis  the  fearfull  bruytes  that  thei  sparsed  abroad,  (some- 
tymes  that  the  Queue  Avas  tacken;  sometymes  that  the  Erie  of 
Murray  and  all  his  band  war  slane  ;  and  sometymes  that  the 
Queue  had  gevin  her  self  imto  the  Erie  of  Huntley, — besydis 
such  bruites)  the  Bischope,  to  brek  the  countrey  of  Kyle,  whair 
quyetness  was  greatest,  rased  the  Craufurdis  against  the 
Readis  for  the  payment  of  the  Bischopis  Pasche  fynes  ;  but 
that  was  stayed  by  the  laubouris  of  indifferent  men,  who 
favored  peace. 

The  Abbot  of  Crosraguell  requyred  disi^utatioun  of  Johne  "isputa- 
Knox  for  mantenance  of  the  Messe,  which  was  granted,  unto 


1   Sir    .John    Maxwell   of   Terreglis,  younger  son,  intended  for  the  chm-cli,  he 

Warden  of  the  AVest  Marches  :  see  vol.  pursued  his  studies  at  St.  Andrews,  and 

i.  p.  319.  afterwards  at  Paris.     He  obtained  the 

=  Giving  ear  to  the  Bishop,  that  is,  John  Abbacy  of  Crossraguell  in  Ayrshire,  in 

Hamilton,  Archbishop  of  St.  Andrews.  the  year  1549.     He  died   on   the  22d 

3  Qviintin  Kennedy  was  the  fourth  son  August  1564.     See  notice  of  his  life  in 

ofCiilbei-t  second  Earl  of  Cassillis.     Asa  the  AVodrow  Miscellany,  vol.  i.  p.  89. 


352 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


him,  and  wliiche  held  in  Mayboll  thre  dayis.  Tlie  Abbot  had 
the  advantage  that  he  requyred,  to  wit,  He  took  upoun  him  to 
prove  that  Melchisedeck  offered  bread  and  wyne  unto  God, 
whicli  was  the  ground  that  the  Messe  was  builded  upoun  to  be 
a  Sacrifice,  &c.  But  in  the  travaill  of  thre  dayis  thair  could  no 
prooff  be  i)roduced  for  Melchisedeckis  oblatioun,  as  in  the  same 
disputatioun  (which  is  to  be  had  in  print  ^)  clearlic  may  ap- 
pear. The  Papist]  s  constantlie  looked  for  a  wolter,  and  thair- 
foir  thei  Avoid  maid  some  bragg  of  reassonyng.  Tlie  Abbote 
farther  presented  him  self  to  the  pulpit,  but  the  voice  of 
Maister  George  Hay^  so  eifrayed  him,  that  efter  ones  he 
wearyed  of  that  exercise. 

After  that  the  Queue  was  somewhat  satisfyed  of  hunting, 
and  other  pastyme,^  sche  cam  to  Abirdene,  Avhair  the  Erie  of 


1  The  Disputation  i-eferred  to  took 
place  at  Maybole  in  September  1562. 
Knox  published  a  detailed  account  of 
it,  under  the  title  of  "  The  Copie  of  the 
Reasonyng  which  was  betwix  the  Abbot 
of  Crossraguell  and  Johne  Knox,  ia 
Maybole,  concerning  the  Masse,"  &c. 
Printed  at  Edinburgh  by  Robert  Lek- 
previk,  1563,  4to.  This,  of  course,  will 
be  reprinted  in  a  subsequent  volume  of 
his  Works. 

-  ^Ir.  George  Hay  was  first  minister 
of  Eddilston,  and  in  or  before  1563,  was 
appointed  Commissioner  of  the  Diocese 
of  Aberdeen  audBanff,  and  also  Minister 
of  Ruthven.  In  August  15G2,  he  had 
been  appointed  to  visit  Ayrshire  (see 
page  347) ;  and  Knox's  allusion  is  evi- 
dently to  Hay's  controversy  with  the 
Abbot  at  this  time,  which  was  published 
under  this  title,  "  The  Confutation  of 
the  Abbote  of  Crosraguells  Masse,  set 
furth  by  Maister  George  Hay,  Im- 
printed at  Edinburgh,  by  Robert  Lek- 
prewik,  1563,"  4to;  dedicated  "  To  the 
Most  Noble,  Potent,  and  Godly  Lord 
James,  Earle  of  Murray." 


''  The  following  is  a  brief  notice  of  the 
Queen's  progi-ess  in  the  North  of  Scot- 
land. She  set  out  from  Edinburgh,  on 
horseback,  on  the  11th  August  1562, 
dined  that  day  at  Calder,  and  then 
reached  the  Palace  of  Linlithgow.  Next 
day,  after  dinner,  at  Lord  Livingstone's, 
in  Callander  House,  she  came  to  Stir- 
ling Castle,  where  she  remained  till  the 
18th.  She  proceeded  to  Aberdeen, 
where  she  arrived  on  the  27th,  and  re- 
mained till  the  1st  of  September.  Hav- 
ing changed  her  purpose  of  visiting  the 
Earl  of  Huntley,  she  proceeded,  stopping 
at  places  not  so  well  prepared  for  her 
reception,  passed  the  Spey,  and  reached 
Elgin  on  the  4th.  On  the  8th  she  pass- 
ed forward  to  Kinloss  Abbey ;  on  the 
following  day  to  Tarnaway  Castle,  the 
chief  mansion  of  the  Earldom  of  Mui'- 
ray,  where  a  Privy  Council  was  held  on 
the  10th  of  September ;  and  Lord  James 
Stewart  having  resigned  the  title  of 
Mar,  produced  his  patent,  and  assumed 
the  title  of  Murray.  Next  day  the  Queen 
reached  Inverness.  On  the  15th  she 
set  out  on  her  return,  stopping  at  Tar- 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  853 

Huntley  met  hir  and  his  Lady,  with  no  small  tryne,  remaned 
in  Court,  was  supposed  to  have  the  greatest  credyte,  departed 
with  the  Quene  to  Buchquhane,  met  hir  again  at  Rothymay, 
looking-  that  sche  should  have  passed  with  him  to  Strabogye. 
But  in  the  jorney  certane  word  cam  to  hir  that  Johnc  Gordoun 
had  brocken  promesse  in  not  re-entering  in  ward ;  for  his 
father  the  Erie  had  promessed  that  he  should  enter  agane 
within  the  Castell  of  Stry^^eling,  and  thair  abyd  the  Quenis 
pleasur.  But  whetther  with  his  fatheris  knowledge  and  con- 
sent, or  without  the  same  we  know  not,  but  he  refused  to 
enter ;  which  so  offended  the  Quene,  that  she  wold  not  go  to 
Strabogye,  but  passed  through  Straythyla  to  Innerness,  whair 
the  Castell  thairof  was  denyed  unto  hir.  The  Capitane  was 
commanded  to  keape  it,  and  looked  for  releaf,  for  so  had 
Johne  of  Gordoun  promessed ;  but  being  thairof  frustrat,  the 
Castell  was  randered,  and  the  Capitane  named  Gordoun  was 
executed ;  the  rest  war  damned,  and  the  handis  of  some  bound, 
but  eschaiped. 

This  was  the  begynning  of  farther  tiTible ;  for  the  Erie  of 
Huntley  thairat  offended,  began  to  assemble  his  folkis,  and 
spaired  not  to  speak  that  he  wold  be  revenged.  But  alwayes 
his  Wyef  bayre  faire  countenance  to  the  Quene ;  and  it  is 
verrely  supposed,  that  no  other  harme  then  the  Quene  hir  self 
could  easilie  have  stand  content  with,  was  ment  unto  hir 
awin  persone.  But  the  hoill  malice  lay  upoun  the  Erie  of 
Murray,  Secreatarie  Lethingtoun,  and  upoun  the  Lard  of  Pit- 
tarro.     Yitt  the  Quene  begane  to  be  effraycd,  and  by  procla- 

naway  and  Spynie  Castle,  recrossed  the  and  other  writers  assert   was  the  chief 

Spey  at  Fochabers,  and  reached  Aber-  object  in  inducing  the  Queen  to  tmder- 

deen  on  the  22d,  where  the  inhabitants  take  this  journey.     In  her  return  she 

shewed  their  loyalty  on  occasion  of  her  passed    through    Dimottar,    Montrose, 

public  entry.     Here  she  remained  till  Dundee,    Perth,    and  arrived  at  Holy- 

the  5th  of  November,  during  wliich  time  rood  on  the  evening  of  the  21st  of  No- 

the  fatal  conflict  at  Corrichie  took  place,  vember,   after  more  than  three  months' 

ensuring  the  triumph  of  Murray,  and  absence.     See  Qialmers's  Life  of  Queen 

the   ruin  of  Huntley,  which  Chalmers  Mary,  vol.  i.  sect.  iv. 

VOL.  II.  Z 


354  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

matioim  caused  warne  Stiyveling,  Fyffe,  Anguss,  Mearaess, 
and*  Straytlierne,  charge  all  substantiall  men  to  be  in  Abir- 
dene  the  fyfth  day  of  October,  thair  to  remane  the  space  of 
twenty  dayis.  In  hir  returning  from  Innerness,  sche  required 
the  Castell  of  Fynlater,  which  was  lykewise  denyed,  and  so 
was  Auchendowne,  which  more  inflammed  the  Quein.  The 
Erie  of  Huntley  was  charged  to  cans  deliver  the  said  housses, 
un(;ler  pane  of  treasson.  To  schaw  some  obedience,  he  caused 
the  keyis  of  boyth  to  be  presented  by  his  servand,  Mr.  Thomas 
Keyr.  But  befoir  had  the  Queue  send  young  Capitane 
Stewarte,  (sone  to  Capitane  James,^  who  to  this  day  hes  neather 
bein  stout,  happye,  nor  trew,)  with  sex  scoir  of  soldartis,  to  ly 
about  the  said  place  of  Fynlater.  They  lodged  in  Culane,  nott 
far  distant  from  the  said  place.  Upoun  a  nycht  Johne  Gordoun 
cam  with  a  cumpany  of  horsemen,  took  the  Capitane,  slew  cer- 
tane  of  the  soldiouris,  and  disarmed  the  rest.  This  fact,  done  (as 
the  Queue  alledged)  under  traist,  so  inflambed  hir,  that  all  hope 
of  reconciliatioun  was  past  ;  and  so  the  said  Erie  of  Huntley 
was  charged,  under  pane  of  putting  of  him  to  the  home,  to  pre 
sent  him  self  and  the  said  Johne  befoir  the  Queue  and  Counsall 
within  sax  dayis :  whiche  charge  he  disobeyed,  and  so  was 
denunced  rebell.  Wliitther  it  was  law  or  not,  we  dispute  litill 
thairintill ;  but  it  was  a  preparative  to  otheris  that  after  war 
served  with  that  same  measure.  He  was  sought  at  his  place 
of  Strathbogye,  but  eschaped. 

The  evill  encreased,  for  the  Erie  assembled  his  folk  out  of 

all  partes  of  the  North.     He  martched  forward  towardis  Abir- 

dene,  and  upoun  the  twenty-twa  day  of  October,  the  year  of 

1502.      Qod  J"  V  threscoir  twa  yearis,  cam  to  the  Loch  of  Skein. 

His  army  was  judged  to  sevin  or  aught  hundreth  men.     The 

^  Apparently  Capt.  Alexander  Stew-  Stewart  for  his  trew  service  done  and 

art,  son  of  Capt.  James  Stewart  of  Car-  to  be  done,  £G6,  13s.  4d." 
donald,  who  is  mentioned  at  page  329.  ^  Being  denounced  rebels,  in  Aiigust 

On  the  29th  October  1562,  there  was  and  October  15G5. — Some  letters  in  this 

paid  by  the  Queen's  speciale  command  marginal  note,  cut  away  by  the  binder, 

"  to  Capitane  MofFet  cnsinge  to  Capitane  are  supplied  from  MS.  G. 


so  WAS  THE 
DUCK, THE 
EELIS 
ERGYLE, 
MURRAY, 
AXD  GLEN- 
CAEXE, 
WITH  AI,L 
THAIR  CTJM- 
PANIES 
AFTER 
.SERVED.2 


].'562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  355 

Quenis  army,  boytli  in  nomber  and  manliead,  far  surmounted 
his,  and  yitt  he  took  no  fear ;  for  he  was  assured  of  the  most 
parte  of  thame  that  war  with  the  Queue,  as  the  ishew  did 
witness.  Within  the  toune  tliei  stood  in  great  fear ;  and  thair- 
foir  it  was  concluded  that  thei  wold  assaile  the  uttermost 
ujjoun  the  feildis.  The  Forbesses,  Hayes,  and  Leslyes,  took 
the  vantgard,  and  i)romessed  to  feght  the  said  Erie  without 
any  other  helpe.  Thei  23assed  furth  of  the  toune  before  ten 
houris.  Thei  putt  thame  selfis  in  array,  but  thei  approached 
not  to  the  enemye  till  that  the  Erie  of  Murray  and  his  cum- 
panye  war  come  to  the  feildis,  and  that  was  efter  two  at  efter 
none  ;  for  he  was  appointed  with  his  cumpanye  onlye  to  have 
beholden  the  battell.  But  all  thingis  turned  otherwyese  then 
the  most  parte  of  men  supposed. 

The  Erie  of  Huntley  was  the  nycht  befoir  determined  to 
have  retyred  him  self  and  his  cumpanye  ;  but  that  mornyng 
he  could  not  be  walkened  before  it  was  ten  houres,  and  when 
he  was  up  on  foote  his  sprcitis  failed  him,  (be  reassone  of  his 
corpolencie,)  so  that  rychtlie  a  longe  tyme  he  could  do  nothing. 
Some  of  his  freindis,  fearing  the  danger,  left  him.  Wlien  that 
he  looked  upoun  boyth  the  cumpanyes,  he  said,  "  This  great 
cumpany  that  approcheth  neyest  to  us  will  do  us  no  harm, 
thei  ar  our  freindis.  I  only  fear  yonder  small  cumpayne  that 
stand  upoun  the  hill-syd,  yone  ar  our  enemyes.  But  we  ar 
anew  for  thame,  yf  God  be  with  us."  And  when  he  had  thus 
spoken,  he  fell  upoun  his  knees,  and  maid  his  prayer  in  this 
forme.     "  0  Lord,  I  have  been  a  bloode  thristye  man,  and  bv  ^he  hrlk 

^  "^  '  <^     OF  HUNT- 

my  nieanes  hes  mekle  innocent  bloode  bein  spilt ;  but  wilt  thou  p^Pyj-B 
geve  me  victoiy  this  day,  and  I  shall  serve  thee  all  the  dayis  of 
my  lyef." — Note  and  observe,  good  Readar,  he  confessed  that 
he  had  bein  a  blood-thristy  man,  and  that  he  had  bein  the 
cause  of  the  Schedding  of  much  innocent  bloode  :  but  yitt  wold 
he  have  had  victorye ;  and  what  was  that  ellis,  but  to  have  had 
power  to  have  schedd  more,  and  then  wold  he  have  satisfied 


356  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

God  for  all  togetther.  Wherein  is  expressed  the  nature  of 
hyi^ocrjtis,  whiche  neather  farther  feareth  nor  loveth  God  then 
present  danger  or  proffeitt  suadeth.     But  to  our  Historye. 

The  Leslyes,  Hayes,  and  Forbesses,    espying   the   Erie    of 

Murray  and  his  to  be  lyghted  upoun  thair  foote,  maid  ford- 

coRRECHT    warde  against  the  Erie  of  Huntley  and  his,  who  stoode  in  Cor- 

BTJRNF,,  OR 

FARA  BANK,  rechle  Burne,  (some  call  it  Fara  Bank  ;)^  but  or  tliei  approched, 
ney  by  the  space  of  the  schote  of  ane  arrow,  they  caist  frome 
tliame  thair  spearis  and  long  weaponis,  and  fled  directlie  in 
THE  TREAs-  thc  faces  of  the  Erie  of  Murray  and  his  company.  The  danger 
FACT  OF  TKE  espycd,  the  Lard  of  Pettarro,  a  man  boyth  stout  and  of  a  reddy 
wytt,  with  the  Maister,  now  Lord  Lyndsay,  and  Tutour  of 
Petteur,2  said,  "  Let  us  cast  downe  spearis  to  the  formest,  and 
lett  thame  nott  come  amanges  us,  for  thair  is  no  doubt  but  that 
this  flying  is  by  trcassone."  And  so  thei  did :  so  that  they 
that  fled  keapt  thame  selfis  apart  frome  the  few  nomber  that 
war  marching  upoun  foote  in  ordour.  The  Erie  of  Huntley, 
seing  the  vantgard  flie,  said  unto  his  company,  "  Oure  freindis 
ar  honest  men,  they  have  keapt  promesse :  lett  us  now  ren- 
counter the  rest."  And  so  he  and  his,  as  suyre  of  victorye, 
martched  fordwarte. 

The  Secreatarie,  in  few  wordis,  maid  a  vehement  orisoun, 

and  willed  everie  man  to  call  upoun  his  God,  to  remember  his 

deuitie,  and  nott  to  fear  the  multitude;  and,  in  the  end,  con- 

sKf  RF.TA-      eluded  thus :     "  0  Lord,  thou  that  reullis  the  heavin  and  the 

iNGtou.v      earth,  look  upoun  us  thy  servandis,  whose  bloode  this  day  is 

HIS  ORISONE  .  ^        ,  -111 

ATT  coRRE-  most  unjustlie  sought,  and  to  man's  judgement  is  sold  and 


1  The  battle  of  Corrichie   takes  its  a  later  period  of  life  he  obtained  a  grant 

name  from  the  vale  or  small  stream  so  of  the  Commendatorship  of  the  Prioi-y 

called,  in  the  parish  of  JMid-Mar,  about  of  Pittenwcem.   As  elsewhere  mentioned 

twenty  miles   west  of  Aberdeen.     The  he  died  in  1588,  aged  seventy.     He  was 

hill  of  Fare  is  computed  to  be  1793  feet  buried  in  the  church  of  Dundee,  and 

above  the  level  of  the  sea.  the  inscription  on  his  monument,  which, 

*  This  veteran  has  been  several  times  I  believe,  is  still  preserved,  was  pub- 
mentioned  by  Knox  :  see  vol.  i.  p.  31 7 ;  lished  by  Monteith,  in  his  "  Theater  of 
vol.  ii.  pp.  5fi,63.  It  may  bo  added  that  at  Mortality."     Edinb.  1713,  8vo. 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  3o7 

betrayed :  Our  refuge  is  now  unto  thee  and  our  hope  is  in  thee. 
Judge  thou,  0  Lord,  this  day,  betwix  us  and  the  Erie  of 
Huntley,  and  the  rest  of  our  ennemyes.  Yf  ever  we  have  in- 
justlie  souglit  his  or  thair  destructioun  and  bloode,  lett  us  fall 
in  the  edge  of  the  sweard.  And,  0  Lord,  yf  thou  knowest  our 
innocencye,  manteane  thou  and  presei-ve  us  for  thy  great 
mercy es  saik." 

Schort  after  the  speaking  of  these  and  the  lyke  wordis,  the 
formar  rankis  joyned,  for  Huntley  is  cumpany  maid  great  haist. 
They  war  repulsed  by  the  Maister  of  Lyndsay,  and  the  cum- 
panyes  of  FyiFe  and  Anguss.  Some  of  thame  that  fledd 
returned,  and  followed  the  Erie  of  Murray,  but  gave  na  straykis 
till  that  Huntleyis  cumpanye  geve  back.  In  the  front  thair 
war  slane  about  eighteen  or  twenty-foure  men,  and  in  the 
fleyeing  thair  fell  ney  a  hundreth.  Thair  was  tacken  a  hundreth, 
and  the  rest  war  spaired.  The  Erie  himself  was  tacken  alyve  ; 
his  two  sons,  Johne  foirsaid,  and  Adam  Gordoun,  war  tacken 
with  him.  The  Erie,  immediatlie  after  his  tacken,  departed 
this  lyiff  without  any  wound,  or  yitt  appearance  of  any  strock, 
Avhairof  death  might  have  enseued  ;  and  so,  becaus  it  was  laitt, 
he  was  cassen  over-thorte  a  pair  of  crealles,  and  so  was  caiyed 
to  Abirdene,  and  was  laid  in  the  Tolbuyth  thairof,  that  the 
response  whiche  his  wyffis  wyttches  had  gevin  mycht  be  ful-  eelk  of 
filled,  whay  all  affirmed  (as  the  most  parte  say,)  that  that  wyttche.s. 
same  nycht  should  he  be  in  the  Tolbuyth  of  Abirdene  without 
any  wound  upoun  his  body.  When  his  Lady  gatt  knowledge 
thairof,  sche  blamed  hir  principale  witche,  called  Janet  ;  but 
sche  stoutlie  defended  hir  self,  (as  the  devill  can  ever  do,)  and 
affirmed  that  she  geve  a  trew  answer,  albeit  she  spack  nott  all 
the  treuth  ;  for  she  knew  that  he  should  be  thair  dead:l  but 
that  could   nott  proffeit  my  Lady.^     Scho   was   angrye   and 

1  In  MS.  L  4,    all   the  words    after       Lord  Keith,  who  with  Ms  futlier  William 
'  should  be  there  dead,"  are  omitted.  third  Earl  Marischal,  was  killed  at  Flod- 

*  Elizabeth,  eldest  daughter  of  Robert      don  in  1513. 


THE  RE- 
SPONSE 
OF  THf 


19  JU> 


358  THE  HISTORY  OF  Buok  IV. 

sorye  for  a  seassone,  but  the  Devill,  the  Messe,  and  wyttclies 
have  als   great   credyte  of  hir    this   day  as  thei   had   sevin 

The  Erie  of  Murray  send  message  unto  the  Queue  of  the 
mervalouse  victorye,  and  humblie  prayed  hir  to  schaw  that 
obedience  to  God  as  publictlie  to  convene  with  thame,  to  geve 
tliankis  unto  God  for  his  notable  deliverance.  Sche  giowmed 
boytli  at  the  messenger^  and  at  the  requeast,  and  skarselie  wold 
geve  a  good  worde  or  blyth  countenance  to  any  that  sche  knew 
earnest  favoraris  of  the  Erie  of  Murray,  whose  prosperitie  was 
and  yitt  is,  a  verray  vennoume  to  hyr  boldened  harte,  against 
him  for  his  godlynes  and  uprycht  plainess.  Of  many  dayes  she 
bair  no  better  countenance  ;  whairby  it  myght  have  bene  evi- 
dentlie  espyed,  that  sche  rejosed  nott  greatlie  of  the  successe 
of  that  mater ;  and  albeit  sche  caused  execut  Johne  Gordoun 
and  diverse  otheris,  yitt  it  was  the  destructioun  of  otheris  that 
sche  sought. 

Upoun  the  morow  after  the  disconfiture,  the  Lady  Forbess, 
a  woman  boytli  wyese  and  fearing  God,  cam  amangis  many 
other  to  vesytt  the  corps  of  the  said  Erie ;  and  seing  him  ly 
upoun  the  cold  steanes,  having  onlye  upoun  him  a  doublat  of 
cammoise,  a  pair  of  Scottishe  gray  hoise,  and  covered  with  ane 
THE  LADY    arrass-work,^  she  said,  "  What  stabilitie  shall  we  iudge  to  be 

FOEBES    HIR  '  '  >}  O 

wouEDis.  ij^^Q  i\^{^  world  :  tliair  lyetli  he  that  yesterday  in  the  morneyng 
was  holden  the  wyesest,  the  richest,  and  a  man  of  greatest 
power  that  was  within  Scotland."  And  in  verray  dead  sche 
lyed  nott ;  for,  in  mannis  opinioun,  under  a  prince,  thair  was 
not  suche  a  one  these  thre  hundreth  yearis  in  this  Realme 
produced.  Bott  felicitie  and  worldlye  wisdome  so  blyndcd 
him,  that  in  the  end  he  perished  in  thame,  as  shall  all  those 
that  dysjDyse  God,  and  trust  in  thame  selfis.* 

1  In  MS.  G,  this  margiual  date  i.<  in-  *  In  MS.  G,  ia  this  place  there  is  a 

sertcd  in  the  text.  marginal  note,   "  Let  utheris  that  yet 

*  In  MS.  1566,  "  message."  live  mark  this." 
3  In  AIS.  L  4,  "  an  Yrish  work." 


1562. 


THE  REFOIIMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


359 


Johne  Gordoun,^  at  his  death,  confessed  many  horrible 
thingis,  devised  by  his  father,  by  his  brother,  and  by  him  self 
Thair  war  letteris  found  in  the  Erles  pocket,  that  disclosed  the 
treassone  of  tlie  Erie  of  Sutherland,  and  of  diverse  otheris. 
Mr.  Thomas  Keir,  who  befoir  was  the  hole  counsallour  to  the 
Erie  foirsaid,  disclosed  whatsoever  he  understoode  myglit  hurte 
the  Gordones  and  thair  freyndis :  and  so  the  treassone  planelie 
disclosed,  whiclie  was,  that  the  Erie  of  Murray  with  certane 
otheris  should  have  bene  murthered  in  Strabogye  ;  the  Queue 
should  have  bene  tane,  and  keapt  at  the  devotioun  of  the  said 
Erie  of  Huntley. 

These  thingis  (we  say)  reveilled,  the  Queue  left  the  North,2 
and  cam  to  Dondye,  Sanct  Johnestoun,  Stirveling,  and  then  to 
Edinburgh.3  The  Erie  of  Huntleyis  body  was  caryed  about  in 
a  boat,^  and  laid  without  buriall  in  the  Abbay  of  Halyrud- 
house,  till  the  day  of  his  forfaltour,  as  after  shall  be  declaired.^ 


1  See  page  345,  note  2. 

-  In  MS.  L  4,  this  sentence  reads, 
"  These  thingis  thus  i-eveilled,  the  Quene 
returned  shorthe  efter,  leaving  the  The- 
saurer,  Mr.  James  M'Gill,  ilr.  John 
Spence  of  Contlie,  and  the  Laird  of 
Pittarrow  in  Aberdene,  to  compone  for 
the  eschetes  of  those  who  were  in  the 
fields  with  the  Erie  of  Huntlie."  C'alder- 
wood  (Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  200)  copies  these 
words  verbatim.  The  Treasurer  in  his 
Accounts  from  February  1561-2  to 
February  1562-3,  charges  himself  with 
£3542,  6s.  8d.,  as  the  composition  of 
various  persons  in  the  North  for  assist- 
ing, &c.  George  Earl  of  Huntley,  "  in 
Campo  de  Correchie,  in  mense  Oct.  ult." 
In  October  £38  was  paid  to  Archibald 
Earl  of  Argyle,  Lord  Justice,  and  £62 
to  Sir  John  Bellenden,  Justice  Clerk, 
for  the  time  they  remained  in  Aber- 
deen. "  Item,  to  John  Johnstoun,  Clerk 
of  the  Secreit  Counsel,  for  his  extra- 
ordinar  wagis  and  ane  servand,  await- 
ing upoun  the  Quenis  grace  and  Lordis 
of  hir  Secreit  Counsel,  all  the  tymc  fra 


hir  Grace  departing  foi-th  of  Edinbui-gh 
towart  the  North  partis,  fi-a  the  first 
day  of  August,  1562  zeris,  to  the  last 
day  of  November  in  the  said  zeir,  ex- 
tending to  122  dayis,  &c.  £100." 

^  On  the  21st  November. 

*  The  following  payments  in  the 
Treasurer's  Accounts,  confirm  this  notice 
of  the  Earl's  contemplated  forfeiture : — 
1562,  November,  Item  to  Patrick  Hume, 

for  the  fi'aucht  of  his  schip,  of  Abir- 

dene  to  Leith, £10 

—  for  the  carriage  of  ane  kist,  quhairin 
wes  contenit  my  Lord  of  Huntleis 
bodie,  of  Leith  to  Edinburgh,     .     4s. 

—  for  bandis  for  the  same,        .     .  10s. 

—  to  Robert  Hendersone,  chiriu-gen,  foi" 
expensis  maid  be  him  upoun  spicis, 
vinagre,  acquavitie,  pulderis,  odoiuis, 
and  hardis,  with  sindrie  uthei-is  ne- 
cessaris,  and  for  his  laubouris  in  the 
handeling  of  the  said  Erie  of  Huntleis 
bodie  that  it  suld  nocht  putrefic,  as 
compt  ge-vin  in  be  the  said  Robert, 

beris £28,  3s.   4d. 

'  See  infra,  page  380. 


360 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV- 


The  Duck  apprehended  the  Lord  Gordoun"'  his  sone  in  law, 
becaus  that  the  Quene  had  straitlie  commanded  him  so  to  do, 
yf  he  repaired  within  his  boimdis.  Befoir  he  delivered  him, 
the  Erie  of  Murray  lauhored  at  the  Quenis  hand  for  the  saiftye 
of  his  lyeff,  which  hardly  was  granted  ;  and  so  was  he  delivered 
within  the  Castell  of  Edinburgh,  the  tAventy-aught  day  of 
1562.  November,  whair  he  remaned  till  the  aught  of  Februarc,  when 
he  was  put  to  ane  assise,  accused,  and  convict  of  treassone;  but 
was  restored  agane,  first  to  the  Castell  foirsaid,  and  thairafter 
was  transported  to  Dumbar,  whair  he  remaned  preasoner  till 
the  moneth  of  August,  the  year  of  God  J""  V  threscoir  fy^^e 
yearis,  as  we  will  after  hear. 

In  this  meantyme  the  trubles  war  bote  in  France  ;  and  the 
intelligence  and  outward  familiaritie  betwix  the  two  Quenis 
was  great.  Lethingtoun  was  direct  with  large  commissioun 
both  to  the  Quene  of  England  and  unto  the  Guisianes.  The 
mariage  of  our  Queyn  was  in  all  mannis  mouth.     Some^  wold 


1  George  Lord  Gordon  was  the  second 
son  of  the  Earl  of  Huntley.  He  succeeded 
his  elder  brother  Alexander  Lord  Gor- 
don, who  died  in  1553,  without  issue. 
Alexander  married  Lady  Margaret,  the 
second  daughter,  and  George,  Lady  Anne, 
the  third  daughter  of  the  Duke  of  Chat- 
telherault.  On  his  father's  death  at  Cor- 
richie,  George  became  fifth  Earl  of  Hunt- 
ley. But  being  apprehended,  he  was  con- 
victed of  treason  on  the  8th  February 
1562-3,  his  estates  forfeited,  and  he  him- 
self sentenced  to  be  executed.  The 
latter  part  of  the  sentence  however 
being  delayed,  he  was  sent  to  Dunbar 
Castle,  where  he  remained  a  prisoner 
until  August  15G5.  He  was  then  restored 
to  favour,  and  adhered  to  the  Queen's 
party.  He  was  advanced  to  be  Lord 
Cliancellor  in  March  1560,  and  after 
several  changes  of  fortune,  he  died  in 
157G. 

*  Of  the  five  persons  here  named,  who 
were  proposed   as   husband  to  Queen 


Mary,  the  first  was  Don  Carlos,  Infant 
of  Spain,  son  of  Philip  the  Second,  born 
in  1545,  and  died  in  1568.  The  next 
was  the  Archduke  Charles,  a  younger 
son  of  the  Emperor  Ferdinand  the  Fii-st, 
and  brother  of  Maximihan  the  Second, 
born  in  1540,  and  died  in  1596.  The 
thii-d  was  Lord  Robert  Dudley,  the  fa- 
vourite of  Queen  Elizabeth,  who  created 
him  Earl  of  Leicester,  born  in  1532,  and 
died  in  1588.  The  fourth  was  James  (of 
the  house  of  Savoy)  Duke  de  Nemours, 
born  in  1531,  and  died  in  1585.  He 
was  reckoned  as  "  I'lm  des  plus  beaux 
Princes  de  son  tenis,  et  des  plus  braves, 
fut  liberal,  magnifique,  et  sfavoit  des 
langues."  In  1566,  he  married  Anne 
d'Este,  widow  of  Francis  Duke  de  Guise. 
(Ansolme,  Hist.  Geneal.  vol.  iii.  p.  512.) 
The  last  was  Henry  Lord  Darnley,  eld- 
est son  of  l\latthew  Earl  of  Lennox, 
born  1545,  and  whom  she  afterwards 
married.  29th  Julv  1565. 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  361 

liave  Spaine  ;  some  the  Emperouris  brother ;  some  Lord  Robert  f^-^H 
Dudlye  ;  some  Duck  de  Nemours  ;  and  some  unhappilie  gessed  th^'"peni3 
at  the  Lord  Darnlje.  Wliat  Lethingtounis  credyte  Avas,  we  ^''^KfACE. 
know  not ;  but  schorte  after  thair  began  much  to  be  talked  of 
the  Erie  of  Levenox,  and  of  his  sone,  the  Lord  Darnlye.  It 
was  said  that  Lethingtoun  spack  the  Lady  Margarete  Dow- 
glass,!  and  that  Robert  Melven^  receaved  ane  horse  to  the 
Secreatare's  use,  fra  the  Erie  of  Levenox,  or  from  his  wyif. 
Howsoever  it  was,  Maister  Foullare,  servand  to  the  said  Erie, 
cam  with  letteris  to  the  Quenis  Grace,  by  the  which,  licence 
was  permitted  to  the  Erie  of  Levenox  to  cum  to  Scotland,  to 
travell  in  his  lauchfull  busynes.  That  same  day  that  the 
licence  was  granted,  the  said  Secreatarye  said,  "  This  day  have 
I  tacken  the  deadlie  haiterent  of  all  the  Hamyltonis  within 
Scotland,  and  have  done  unto  thame  no  less  displeasur  than 
that  I  had  cutted  thair  throttis." 

The  Erie  Bothwell,  who  befoir  had  brocken  ward,  fearing 
apprehensioun,  prepared  to  pas  to  France ;  but  by  storme  of 
weather  was  dry\^en  into  England,  whair  he  was  stayed,  and 
was  offerred  to  have  bein  randered  by  the  Quene  of  England. 
But  our  Quenis  ansuer  was,  "  That  he  was  no  rebell,  and 
thairfoir  sche  requeasted  that  he  should  have  libertie  to  pas 
whair  it  pleiseth  him."^  And  thairto  Lethingtoun  helped  not 
a  litill ;  for  he  travailled  to  have  freindis  in  everie  factioun  of 
the  Courte.  And  so  obteined  the  said  Erie  licence  to  pas  to 
France. 

The  wynter  after  the  death  of  the  Erie  of  Huntley,  the 

1  See  page  835,  note  2.  of  France,  during  the  reign  of  Henry 
"  Robert  Melvin  or  Melville,  the  se-  the  Second ;  and  was  afterwards  much 
cond  son  of  Sir  John  Melville  of  Raith.  employed  in  public  affairs.  He  was 
In  May  1555,  "  Robert  Melville,  ser-  knighted  in  1582,  and  was  raised  to  the 
vand  to  the  Quenis  Grace,  received  be  Peerage,  by  the  title  of  Lord  Melville 
hir  speciale  command,"  the  sum  of  £50;  of  Monunail,  in  161 G,  having  survived 
and  in  Seitcmber  following,  £75,  as  his  till  1621,  when  he  died  at  the  very  ad- 
pension  for  the  Wliitsunday  term,  that  vanced  age  of  94. 
year.     He  had  long  resided  at  the  Court  » In  MS.  G,  "  quhaii-  he  pleased." 


362 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


THE 

pr?;ach- 

KOUEIS 
RAILLED 
UPOl'N  OF 
THE  COrR- 
TEOURIS. 


THE 

PREACH ERIS 
AD.MONI- 
TIOUN 
AFTER  THE 
DEATH  OF 
THE  ERLE 
HUNTLEY. 


HVNTLYE.l 


Courte  remaned  for  the  maist  part  in  Edinburgh.  The 
Preacheouris  war  wonderous  vehement  in  reprehensioun  of  all 
maner  of  vice,  which  then  began  to  haboimd  ;  and  especiallie 
avarice,  oppressioun  of  the  poor,  excesse,  lyotouse  chear,  ban- 
ketting,  immoderat  dansing,  and  hurdome,  that  thairof  enseuis. 
Wliairat  the  Courteouris  began  to  storme,  and  began  to  pyck 
querrallis  against  the  Preachearis,  alledging  that  all  thair 
preaching  was  turned  to  raylling.  Wliairunto  one  of  thame 
gave  ansuer  as  folio  weth :  "It  cumis  to  our  earis  that  we  ar 
called  raillaris,  whairof  albeit  we  wounder,  yitt  we  ar  not  es- 
chamed,  seing  that  the  most  worthy  sei'vandis  of  God  that 
befoir  us  have  travailed  in  this  vocatioun,  have  so  bein  styled. 
But  unto  you  do  I  say,  that  that  same  God,  who  from  the  be- 
gyning  has  punished  the  contempt  of  his  word,  and  hes  poured 
furth  his  vengeance  upoun  such  proude  mockaris,  shall  not 
spair  you  ;  yea,  he  shall  not  spair  you  befoir  the  eyis  of  this 
same  wicked  generatioun,  for  the  plgasur  whairof  ye  dispyse 
all  holsome  admonitionis.  Have  ye  not  sein  ane  greattar  than 
any  of  you  sitting  whair  presentlie  ye  sitt,  pyck  his  naillis, 
and  pull  down  his  bonet  ower  his  eyis,  when  idolatrie,  witche- 
craft,  murther,  oppressioun,  and  such  vices  war  rebuked  ? 
Was  not  his  commoun  talk.  When  thei  knaiffis  have  rallied 
thair  fill,  then  will  thei  hald  thair  peace  ?  Have  ye  not  heard 
it  affirmed  to  his  awin  face,  that  God  should  revenge  that  his 
blasphemy,  evin  in  the  eyis  of  such  as  war  witnesses  to  his 
iniquitie  ?  Then  was  the  Erie  Huntley  accused  by  you,  as  the 
manteanar  of  idolatrie,  and  only  hinderar  of  all  good  ordour. 
Him  hes  God  punished,  evin  according  to  the  threatnyngis 
that  his  and  your  earis  heard ;  and  by  your  handis  hath  God 
executed  his  judgementis.  But  what  amendment  in  any  caise 
can  be  espyed  in  you  ?     Idolatrie  was  never  in  greattar  rest : 


1  In  MS.  G,  "  mening  of  Huntlie." 

2  In  MS.  1566,  the  marginal  note  at 
the  top  of  the  next  page,  judging  from 
the  different  hand  and   colour  of  ink. 


was  evidently  added  in  1571.  The 
■words  "  then  was,"  refer  to  the  year 
1562-3.  The  note  occurs  in  MS.  G,  with 
this  addition,  "then  was  (as  he  is  now)." 


\ 

1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  363 

vertew  and  verteouse  men  war  never  in  more  contemi)t :  vice  ^^^Jjj'^"  ^ 
was  never  more  bold,  nor  less  feared  punishement.     And  yitt  'J^^^^l 
who  guydis  the  Quene  and  Court  ?     Who  but  the  Protestantis  ?  I5"i' 
0  homble  sclanderaris  of  God,  and  of  his  holie  evanoell.    Bettir  lethi>g- 
it  war  unto  you  plainelie  to  renunce  Christ  Jesus,  then  thus  to  y^r^J^,^ 
expone  his  blessed  Evangell  to  mockage.     Yf  God  punishc  not  tHEiF.^^'' 
you,  that  this  same  aige  shall  see  and  behold  your  punishe- 
ment,-^ the  Spreit  of  rychteous  judgement  guydis  me  not/' 

This  vehemence  provocked  the  hatterent,  not  onlie  of  the 
Courteouris,  but  also  of  diverse  otheris  against  the  speakar  ;"^ 
for  such  as  be  in  credyte  never  lack  flatteraris. 
ren  of  the  Courte  war  irreverentlie  handilled. 
but  to  raise  the  heartis  of  the  people  against  thame  ?  Thei  did 
what  thei  myght ;  such  speaking  wold  cause  thame  do  less." 
And  this  was  the  frute  the  Preachearis  gatthered  of  tliair  just 
reprehensionis. 

The  Generall  Assemblie  of  the  Cliurche,^  holden  the  twenty- 
f;v^'e  of  December,  the  year  of  God  1562,  approched,  in  the 
which,  great  complentis  war  maid,  that  churches  lacked  Minis- 
teris  ;  that  Ministeris  lacked  thair  stipendis ;  that  wicked  men 
war  permitted  to  be  School-maisteris,  and  so  to  infect  the 
youth ;  amongis  whom  one  Maister  Robert  Cumyn,  scliool- 
maister  in  Aberbrothok,  was  compleaned  upoun  by  the  Laird 
of  Dun,*  and  sentence  was  pronunced  against  hini.     It  was 

*  In  MS.   G,  is  this  marginal  note,  the  other  prisoners,  carried  to  Leith ;  but 

which  cannot  be  attributed  to  the  au-  whether  it  was  his  OAvn  act,  to  save  the 

thor :— "  The  end  declared  thair  words  disgi-ace  of  a  public  execution,  or  that  of 

to   be   trew."     Lethington,   it  is    well  others,  he  died,  "  not  without  suspicion 

known,  having  adhered  to  the  Queen's  of  poison,"  on  the  9th  .June  1573. 

party,   he  remained  in  the  Castle   of  2  Jq  ]\jg_  q^  » j.jjg  speaker,  quhilk  was 

Edinburgh  during  the  whole  time  of  the  .John  Knox." 

siege  by  the  English  troops  in  1573,  ^  i^  jrg  q^  u  ^f  ^i^^  Erk." 

until  its  surrender,  under  promise  that  *  John  Erskine  of  Dim,  Superinten- 

the  Governor  and  his  associates  should  be  dent  of  Angus  and   Mearns.     Calder- 

favourably  treated.  But  Queen  Elizabeth  wood  repeats  this  notice,  and  says,  that 

delivered  them  up  to  their  implacable  Cumraing  was  accused  "  for  infecting 

enemy  the  Regent  Morton ;  and  Lething-  the  youth  committed  to  his  charge  with 

ton  was  with  Kirkaldy  of  Grange,  and  idolatrie." 


364  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

farther  compleaned,  that  idolatrie  was  erected  in  diverse  partis 
of  the  Realme ;  for  redress  whairof,  some  thought  best,  that 
new  supplicatioun  should  be  presented  to  the  Quenis  Grace. 
Otheris  demanded,  what  ansuer  was  receaved  of  tlie  formar  ? 
The  Superintendent  of  Lowtheane  confessed  the  deliverance  of 
it,  "  But,"  said  he,  "  I  receaved  no  ansuer,"  It  was  ansuered 
for  the  parte  of  the  Queue,  (for  hir  suppostis  war  ever  thair,) 
"  That  it  was  weill  knawin  to  the  hoill  Realme  what  trubles 
had  occurred  since  the  last  Assemblie  ;  and  thairfoir,  that  thei 
should  not  wounder  albeit  that  the  Quene  had  not  ansuered : 
but  betwix  that  and  the  Parliament  which  was  appointed  in 
May,  thei  doubted  not  but  that  such  ordour  should  be  tacken, 
as  all  men  should  have  occasioun  to  stand  content."  This  sa- 
rHE  QUENIS  tisf\^ed,  for  that  tyme,  the  hoill  assemblie  :  And  this  was  the 
practise  of  the  Quene  and  of  hir  Counsall,  with  fair  wordis  to 
dryve  tyme,  as  befoir  we  have  said. 

The  Assemblie,  nochtwithstanding-,  proceided  fordward  in 
establessing  of  such  ordouris,  as  whairby  vice  myght  be  pu- 
nished, and  vertew  myght  be  manteaned.  And  becaus  that 
thair  was  a  great  sclander  rissen  upoun  Paule  Meifen,^  of 
whom  mentioun  is  maid  in  the  Secound  Booke  of  this  Historie, 
commissioun  and  charge  was  gevin  unto  Johne  Knox,  minister 
of  Edinburgh,  and  unto  certane  of  the  eldaris  of  the  Kirk  of 
Edinburgh,  to  pass  to  the  toune  of  Jedburgh,  whair  the  said 
sclander  was  rased,  and  to  be  found  thair  the  tlirid  of  Januar 
nixt,  for  the  tryall  to  be  tane  in  the  sclander  rased,  and  to 
hear  the  articules  and  complaynt  of  the  said  Paule ;  and  after 
the  tryall,  to  report  the  treutli  to  the  Sessioun  of  the  Churche 
of  Edinburgh  ;  to  whom,  with  the  assistance  of  the  Superin- 

1  Knox  has  previously  mentioned  30th  December  1562,  to  proceed  to  Jed- 
Paul  Methven  as  an  active  and  zealous  biu-gli,  and  on  the  3d  of  January  to 
preacher,  (vol.  i.  p.  300.)  The  proceed-  take  trial  of  the  slander  raised  against 
ings  against  him  by  order  of  the  As-  Methven.  At  the  next  General  Assem- 
sembly,  contained  in  the  Book  of  the  bly,  on  the  2.5th  June  1563,  Knox  re- 
Kirk,  consist  of  extracts  from  Calder-  ported  that  Methven  had  been  removed 
wood.      Knox  was   appointed   on    the  from  his  charge,  and  excommunicated. 


1562.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  365 

tendent  of  Lowthiane,  commissioun  was  gevin  to  decern  thair- 
intill.  Tlie  tiyall  and  examinatioun  of  that  cryme  was  diffi- 
cill.  The  sdander  was  universall  in  that  toune  and  countrey. 
The  servand  woman  of  the  said  Panle  had  betwix  ternies  left 
his  house  ;  sche  had  borne  a  chikl ;  no  father  to  it  could  she 
fynd  ;  but  alledged  hir  self  to  have  bein  oppressed  late  in  ane 
evening.  The  said  Paulo  constantlie  affirmed  him  self  inno- 
cent, and  wold  have  gevin  his  publict  purgatioun  ;  but  becaus 
that  his  accusatouris  had  tacken  upoun  tliame  to  prove  thair 
accusatioun,  that  was  denyed.  Many  witnesses  war  produced, 
of  whom  some  deponed  so  clearlie,  that  the  Commissionaris 
suspected  that  thei  had  bene  suborned,  and  thairfoir  thei  re- 
quyred  to  have  inspectioun  of  the  places,  whair  some  said  thei 
saw,  and  some  said  thei  heard  thame  in  the  verray  act  of  ini- 
quitie.  The  syglit  and  consideratioun  of  the  places  augmented 
greatlie  the  suspitioun.  But  one  thing  was  most  suspitiouse 
of  all  otheris  ;  for  the  wyiff  of  the  said  Paull,  ane  auncient 
matron,  was  absent  from  him  the  space  of  aucht  or  nyne 
weakis  in  Dundye ;  which  tyme  (or  at  least  a  great  part  thair- 
of)  thei  suspected,  and  he  lay  nyghtlie  in  ane  house,  without 
other  cumpany  than  a  child  of  sevin  or  eight  yearis  of  aige. 

The  Judges,  notwithstanding  these  suspitionis,  haveing  a 
good  opinioun  of  the  honestye  and  godlynes  of  the  man, 
travailed  what  thei  could  (conscience  not  hurte)  to  purge  him 
of  the  sclander.  But  God,  who  wold  not  that  such  vilanye 
should  be  clocked  and  conceiled  within  his  Churche,  other- 
wyese  had  decreed ;  for  he  brought  the  brother  of  the  gyltie 
woman  to  the  toune,  having  no  mind  of  such  materis,  who  be- 
ing produced  by  the  accusatouris,  as  one  that  was  prevey  of 
the  fact,  and  knew  the  veritie  with  all  circumstances :    This  ^^/^ J",^ 


witness,  (we  say,)  which  could  not  be  susjjected,  being  pro- 


or  PAULL 
MEFFEN 


: PROVEN 

was  removed  ;  for  he  it  was  that  convoyed  the  woman  away  ; 
he  it  Avas  that  caused  the  child  to  be  baptised,  alledging  it  to 


366  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

be  his  awin  :  he  it  was  that  caryed  frequent  message  betwix 
thame,  and  from  Paull  caiyed  money  and  clavthis  diverse 
tymes.  How  soon  that  ever  the  said  Paule  saw  that  man  pro- 
duced, as  witnesse,  he  withdrew  himself,  and  left  the  toune,  by 
that  mean  plainlie  tacken  upon  him  the  cryme  ;  and  so  the 
Commissionaris  with  full  informatioun  returned  to  Edinburgh, 
and  notified  the  fact  unto  the  Churche,  who  caused  publictlie 
summond  the  said  Paull  to  hear  the  sentence  pronunced  ;  who 
not  compearing,  in  the  end,  for  his  odiouse  ciyme  and  con- 
tumacye,  was  publictlie  excommunicated,  and  depryved  of  all 
functioun  within  the  Churches  of  Scotland  :  and  so  left  he  the 
Kealme. 

For  two  causes  we  insert  this  horrible  fact,  and  the  ordour 
keapt  in  punishment  of  the  same :  formar,  To  foirwarne  such 
as  travaill  in  that  vocatioun,  that,  according  to  the  admoni- 
tioun  of  the  Apostle,  "  Suche  as  stand,  tack  head  lest  thei 
fall."  No  man  in  the  begyning  of  the  Evangell  was  judged 
more  fervent  and  more  upryght,  and  yit  we  have  heard  how 
far  Sathane  has  prevailled  against  him.  God  grant  that  we 
may  hear  of  his  reapentance.-^  Neather  yitt  aught  his  fall 
any  thing  to  prejudge  the  authoritie  of  the  doctrin  which  he 
taucht ;  for  the  doctrin  of  God  have  authoritie  of  no  creature, 
but  has  the  assurance  of  God  him  self,  how  weak  or  imperfite 
that  ever  the  instrumentis  be  by  whom  it  pleases  God  to 
publishe  the  same.  The  treason  of  Judas,  the  adulterie  of 
David,  and  the  abnegatioun  of  Petir,  did  derogat  nothing  to 
the  glorie  of  Christis  evangell,  nor  yit  to  the  doctrin  which 
befoir  thei  had  taught  ;  but  declaired  the  one  to  be  a  reprobat, 
and  the  other  to  be  instmmentis  in  wliome  mercy  must  neadis 
surmount  judgement.     The  other  cans  is.  That  the  world  may 

1  The  writer  of  the  Fifth  or  Supple-  ceived  again  into  church-fellowship.   It 

mental  Book  of  the  present  work,  notices  does  not  appear  that  he  was  permitted 

Methven's  contrition  and  public  repent-  to  resume  his  ministerial  functions, 
ance ;  and  his  earnest  desire  to  be  re- 


1562. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


367 


sec  what  diiFerence  tliair  is  betwix  light  and  darknes,  betwix 
the  upiychtness  of  the  Chiirche  of  God,  and  the  corruptioun 
that  ringes  in  the  synagoge  of  Sathan,  the  Papisticall  rable  ; 
for  how  many  of  that  sorte  hath  bein,  and  still  remane  openlie 
knowin  hooremongaris,  adulteraris,  violataris  of  virgenis,  yea, 
and  committaris  of  such  abhominationis  as  we  will  nott  name ; 
and  yit  ar  thei  called  and  permitted  to  be  Bischoppis,  Arch- 
bischoppis,  Cardinallis,  and  Papis  thame  selfis.  For  what 
synnes  can  unable  the  sworn  servandis  of  Simonye,  and  of  his 
father  the  devill?  For  bragg  what  thei  lyst  of  Christ,  of 
Petir,  and  of  Paule,  thair  lyves  and  conversationis  bearis  wit- 
nesse  whom  to  they  belong.  But  we  return  to  our  Histor)"e  of 
thingis  done  in  Courte. 

Amongis  the  monzeonis  of  the  Courte,!  thair  was  one  named 
Monsieur  Chattelett,^  a  Frencheman,  that  at  that  tyme  passed 


1  The  following  account  of  Chastelard, 
in  MS.  L  4,  is  introduced  with  a  passage 
relating  to  "  Danvill,  son  to  Annas 
Montmorrencie,  Constable  of  France," 
who  had  accompanied  "  the  Guises  to 
Scotland;"  but  the  reference,  "  as 
Thuanus  sayeth,"  clearly  shews  it  to 
be  a  subsequent  interpolation.  "  When 
he  (Danvill)  departed,  he  left  behind 
him  Monsieur  Chattellet,  nephew  to  the 
famous  knyght  Pierr  Tertall,  by  his 
daughter.  Whill  he  is  left  a  brocker 
between  Danvill  and  the  Queen,  he  lau- 
boured  to  conquist  hir  affection  to  him- 
self. He  passed  all  others  in  credit,"  &c. 
See  Cald.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  211.  It  may 
be  added,  in  reference  to  this  MS.  L  4, 
that  it  corresponds  very  closely  with  the 
MS.  portion  of  Mr.  M'Crie's  copy  of  Yau- 
trollier's  edition;  and  the  latter  was 
probably  the  copy  that  Calderwood  the 
Historian  made  use  of,  as  his  extracts 
correspond  with  it,  and  the  MS.  addi- 
tions resemble  the  handwriting  of  his 
amanuensis. 


2  The  name  of  Chastelard,  among 
other  varieties  by  different  writers,  oc- 
curs as  Chatelar,  Chastellet,  Charterlet, 
Chatillon.  But  we  cannot  well  identify 
liim  with  a  person  of  nearly  the  same 
name  who  had  been  attached  to  the 
household  of  the  Queen  Regent  in  1555, 
as  appears  from  this  entry  in  the  Trea- 
surer's Accoxmts,  on  the  7th  January: — 
"  Item,  Given  to  Franschois  ChattlUihon, 
kepar  of  the  Quenis  Grace  chalmer  dur, 
be  ane  precept  and  speciale  command  at 
his  depai-ting  to  Fransche — 1  lb."  (£50.) 

Chastelard  arrived  in  Scotland  in 
1561,  as  one  of  the  suite  of  M.  de  Dam- 
viUe.  He  retm-ned  with  him  to  France ; 
but  in  November  1562,  he  again  visited 
Scotland  as  the  bearer  of  letters  to  the 
Queen.  He  remained  about  the  Court 
until  the  12th  of  February  1562-3,  the 
night  when  he  concealed  liimself  in  the 
Queen's  bed-chamber  in  the  Palace  of 
Holyrood.  He  followed  her  to  Fife,  and 
two  days  later,  he  was  discovered,  as 
Knox  relates,  at  Burntisland,  and  being 


368  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

all  otheris  in  credvtt  with  the  Quene.  In  dansing  of  the 
Purpose,  (so  terme  thei  that  danse,  in  the  which  man  and 
woman  talkis^  secreatlie — wyese  men  wold  judge  such  fassionis 
more  Ivke  to  the  bordell  than  to  the  comeljnes  of  honest 
wemen,)  in  this  danse  the  Quene  chosed  Chattelett,  and  Chat- 
^^^"telett  took  the  Quene.  Chattelett  had  the  best  dress.  All 
avTKsrE.  ^]j-g  -^^-yij^^j.  Chattelett  was  so  familiare  in  the  Quenis  cabinett, 
arre  and  laitt,  that  scarslve  could  any  of  the  Xobilitie  have 
access  unto  hir.  Tlie  Quene  wold  ly  upoun  Chattelettis  shoul- 
der, and  sometymes  prively  she  wold  steajl  a  kyss  of  his  neck. 
And  all  this  was  honest  yneuch  ;  for  it  was  the  gentill  entreat- 
ment  of  a  stranger.  But  the  familiaritie  was  so  great,  that 
upoun  a  nycht,  he  privelie  did  convoy  him  self  under  the 
Quenis  bed ;  but  being  espyed,  he  was  commanded  away.  But 
the  bruyte  arysing,  the  Quene  called  the  Erie  of  Murray,  and 
bursting  forth  in  a  womanlie  affectioun,  charged  him,  "That  as 
™T^^  he  loved  hir,  he  should  slay  Chattelett,  and  let  him  never 
t^^g^^It-  speak  word."  The  other,  at  the  first,  maid  promesse  so  to  do ; 
ma^tT*  but  after  calling  to  mynd  the  judgementis  of  God  pronunced 
against  the  scheddaris  of  innocent  bloode,  and  also  that  none 
should  dye,  without  the  testimonye  of  two  or  thre  witnesses, 
returned  and  fell  upoun  his  kneis  befoir  the  Quene,  and  said, 
"  Madam,  I  beseak  your  Grace,  cause  not  me  tack  the  blood  of 
this  man  upoun  me.  Your  Grace  hes  entreated  him  so  fami- 
liarlie  befoir,  that  ye  have  offended  all  your  Kobilitie ;  and  now 
yf  he  shalbe  secreatlie  slane  at  your  Sivnn  commandiment, 
what  shall  the  world  judge  of  it  ?  I  shall  bring  him  to  the 
presence  of  Justice,  and  let  him  suffer  be  law  according  to  his 
desen'ing."  '"'  Oh,'"  said  the  Quene,  "  ye  will  never  let  him 
speak?"  "  I  shall  do,"  said  he,  "Madam,  what  in  me  lyeth  to 
saiff  your  honour." 

arrested,  he  was  conTeyed  and  tried  at  Court-book  of   Jasticiarr,    from    iLiy 

SL  Andrews,  -wrhere  he  was  executed  on  15C2  to   May  1563,   being  lost.     (Pit- 

the  22d  February  1562-3.    No  account  of  cairn's  Criminal  Trials,  vol.  L  p.  427.) 
his  trial  has  been  preserved,  the  scroll  '  In  MS.  G,  "  talketh." 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  369 

Poor  Cliattelett  was  broclit  back  from  Kinghome  to  Sanct- 
aiidrois,  exarainat,  putt  to  ane  assise,  and  so  beheaded,  the 
tvventj-twa  day  of  Februar,  the  year  of  Grod  J"  V  threscoir 
twa.  He  begged  licence  to  wryte  to  Fraunce  the  cause  of  his 
death,  which,  said  he,  in  his  toung,  was,  "  Pour  estre  trouve  en 
lieu  trop  suspect ;"  that  is,  "  Becaus  I  was  found  in  a  place  too 
much  suspect/'  At  the  place  of  executioun,  when  he  saw  that 
thair  was  no  remeady  but  death,  he  maid  a  godly  confessioun, 
and  granted,  that  his  declyning  from  the  treuth  of  God,  and 
following  of  vanitie  and  impietie,  was  justlie  recompensed 
upoun  him.  But  in  the  end  he  concluded,  looking  unto  the 
heavenis,  with  these  words,  "  0  cruelle  Dame,"  that  is,  "  Cruell 
Maistress."!  What  that  complaint  imported,  luvaris  may  de- 
vine.  And  so  receaved  Cliattelett  the  reward  of  his  dansing  ; 
for  he  lacked  his  head,  that  his  toung  should  nott  utter  the 
secreattis  of  our  Queue.  "  Deliver  us,  0  Lord,  from  the  raige 
of  such  inordinat  reullaris." 

The  year  of  God  a  thousand  fyve  hundreth  threscoir  thre 
yearis,  thair  was  ane  universall  dearth  in  Scotland.     But  in  the  the 
northland,  whair  the  harvest  befoir  the  Queue  had  travailled,  ^^^^^^ 
thair  was  ane  extreame  famyn,  in  the  quhilk  many  dyed  in  ^^l^^J^ 
that  countrey.     The  dearth  was  great  ower  all,  but  the  famyn  J^, 
was  principallie  thair.     The  boll  of  wheat  gave  sax  pound :  ^^^^.^^  ^^^^ 
the  boll  of  bear,   sax  markis  and  ane  half:    the  boll  of  meill,  ^^^^^^^^ 
four  markis  :    the  boll  of  aittis,  fyfty  schillingis :    ane  ox  to 
draw  in  the  pleuch,  xx  markis :  a  weddir,  thretty  schillingis. 

1  Brantome  has  given  a  tolerably  full  et  propre  pour   ne  point  abhorrer   hi 

account  of  Chastelard,  and  says,  he  was  mart ;   ne  s'aydent  autrement   d'autre 

a  gentleman  of  Dauphin^,  and  grand-  livre  spirituel,  ny  de  iLnistre,  ny  de 

nephew  on  the  mother's  side  of  the  cele-  Confesseur."     He  then  adds  that  Chas- 

brated  M.  de  Bayard.     On  the  day  of  telard  turned  to  the   place  where  he 

his  execution,  he  says,  when  brought  supposed  the  Queen  to  be,  and   cried 

to  the  scaffold,  he  took  into  his  hands  aloud,—"  Adieu,  the  most  beautiful  and 

the  hymns   of  the  French  poet   Ron-  the  most  cruel  Princess  of  the  world." 

sard,   "  et,   pour  son  etemelle  conso-  (Oeuvres,  tome  ii.  p.  3-57.)     Randolph, 

lation,  se  mit  a  lire  tout  enti^rement  however,  says,  "  he  died  with  repen- 

I'hymne  de  la  mort,  qui  est  tres-bien  /ait,  tance."     (Tytler's  Hist.  vol.  vi.  p.  274  ) 


F.BECTISf 
OK  THE 
II  ESSE. 


VOL.  II. 


2  A 


370  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

And  so  all  thingis  apperteanyng  to  the  sustentatioun  of  man, 
in  tripill  and  more  exceaded  tliair  accustomed  prices.  And 
so  did  God,  according  to  tlie  tlireatnjng  of  His  law,  punish  the 
idolatrie  of  our  wicked  Queue,  and  our  ingratitud,  that  suffer- 
ed hir  to  defyle  the  land  with  that  aboniinatioun  agane,  that 
God  so  potentlie  had  purged,  by  the  power  of  his  wourd.  For 
the  ryotouse  feasting,  and  excessive  banquetting,  used  in 
Court  and  countrey,  whair  soevir  that  wicked  Woman  repaired, 
provocked  God  to  stryck  the  sta;ff  of  braid,  and  to  geve  his 
maledictioun  upoun  the  fructis  of  the  earth.l  g^t,  0  allace, 
who  looked,  or  yit  lookis  to  the  very  cause  of  all  our  cala- 
mities. 

Lethingtoun  was  absent,  as  befoir  we  have  heard,  in  the 
Quenis  effairis.2  The  Papistis,  at  that  Pasche,^  anno  lxiij°,  in 
diverse  partis  of  the  Realme,  had  erected  up  that  idoU,  the 
Messe ;  amongis  whom  the  Bisshope  of  Sanctandrois,  the 
Priour  of  Wliithorne,^  with  diverse  otheris  of  thair  factioun, 

1  Bishop  Keith  animadverts  with  some  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  and  not  to  the  Court 

severity  on  Knox's  language  in  thus  at-  of  France.     The  date,  12th  February 

tributing  this  dearth  and  high  price  of  1562-3,  is  confirmed  by  a  letter  quoted 

provisions   "  as  an  immediate  punish-  by  IMr.  Tytler,  vol.  vi.  p.  275. 

ment  upon  what  he  calls  '  the  idolatry  ^  Easter  Sunday,  11th  April, 

of  our  wicked  rulers.' "     (Hist.  vol.  ii.  ■*  Whitehorn  or  Candida  Casa,  was  a 

p.   193.)      He   also   quotes   an   Act   of  Prioiy  in  Wigtonshire,  founded  in  the 

Privy  Council,  11th  February  1562-3,  reign  of  David  the  First,   by  Fergus, 

against  eating  flesh  during  the  season  of  Lord  of  Galloway.     The  Commendator 

Lent,  because,  as  the  Act  beai-s,  "  The  hei-e  mentioned  was  Malcolm  Fleming, 

cattle  had  suffered  much  by  the  tern-  supposed  to  be  a  younger  son  of  John 

pestuous  storms  of  the  winter  bypast."  second  Lord  Fleming,  who  died  in  1524. 

^  On  the  13th  February  1562-3,  "  Wil-  Dns.  Malcolmus  FlemyngVicarius  choii 
liame  Maitland  apperand  of  Lethingtoun,  Glasg.,  was  incorporated  in  the  Uni- 
and  Secretar  to  our  Soverane  Ladie,  versity  of  Glasgow,  29th  October  1519. 
depaii'tit  furth  of  Edinburgh  to  France  He  was  Commendator  and  "N'icar-Gene- 
in  ambassatorie,  to  quhat  effect  none  ral  of  the  Diocese  of  Galloway,  in  De- 
knowis."  (DiumalofOccurrents,  p.75.)  cember  1541.  His  name  as  Commen- 
Keith  has  printed  from  what  he  calls  dator  occurs  in  February  1545-6,  (Chal- 
"  the  Shattered  MS.,"  the  "  Instructions  mers's  Caledonia,  vol.  iii.  pp.  439,  419.) 
by  the  Queen  of  Scots  to  her  Secretary,  Also,  in  1565,  (ib.  p.  432.)  He  died  intes- 
Mr.  William  Maitland,  younger  of  Le-  tate  in  the  year  1568.  John  Lord  Fleming 
thingtoun."  (Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  188.)  They  being  "  decernit  executor  dative."  (Re- 
have  reference,  however,  to  his  mission  gister  of  Confirmed  Testaments.) 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  371 

wold  avow  it.  Besydis  the  first  proclamatioun,  thair  had  let- 
teris  i^ast  in  the  contrair,  with  certificatioun  of  death  to  the 
contraveanar. 

The   brethren  universallie  offended,  and  espying  that  the 
Quene,  by  hir  proclamationis,  did  but  mock  tliame,  determined 
to  put  to  thair  awin  handis,  and  to  punishe  for  example  of 
otheris.     And  so  some  Preastis  in  the  westland  war  appro- ^Igo™^^^. 
hended,  intimatioun  maid  unto  otheris,  (as  unto  the  Abbot  of  Intis  nj 
Crossraguell,^  the  Parsone  of  Sanquliair,^  and  such,)  that  thei  ^"^  ^^^^■' 
should  nether  complayne  to  Quene  nor  Counsall,  but  should 
execute  the  punishment  that  God  has  appointed  to  idolateris 
in  his  law,  by  such  means  as  thei  myclit,  whairever  thei  should 
be  apprehended. 

The  Quene  stormed  at  sick  fredome  of  speaking,  but  she 
could  not  amend  it  ;  for  the  Spreit  of  God,  of  boldness  and  of 
wisdom,  had  not  then  left  the  most  part  of  such  as  God  had 
used  instrumentis  in  the  begynyng.  Thei  war  of  one  mynd 
to  manteane  the  treuth  of  God,  and  to  suppresse  idolatrie. 
Particularties  had  not  divided  thame ;  and  thairfoir  could  not 
the  devill,  working  in  the  Quene  and  Papistis,  do  then  what 
thei  wold ;  and,  thairfoir,  she  began  to  invent  a  new  craft. 
She  send  for  Johne  Knox  to  come  unto  hir,  whair  she  lav  at  '°^^^ 
Lochleaven.^  She  travailled  with  him  earnestlie  two  houris  I^L^^  ^"^ 
befoir  hir  suppar,  that  he  wold  be  the  instrument  to  perswaid 
the  people,  and  principallie  the  gentilmen  of  the  West,  not  to 
put  handis  to  punishe  any  man  for  the  using  of  tliame  selfis  in 
thair  religioun  as  pleased  thame.  The  other  perceaving  hir 
craft,  willed  hir  Grace  to  punishe  malefactouris  according  to 

^  This  marginal   note   is  omitted  in  at  the  College  of  Glasgow,  being  incor- 

M^-  ^-  porated  in  1521.   He  died  16th  January 

-  Quintin  Kennedy,  Abbot  of  Cross-  1570-1.     (Register  of  Confirmed  Testa- 

raguell  in  Ayrshire,  (see  supra,  pp.  351,  ments.) 

352.)  4  Tliis  interview  is  supposed  to  have 

^  Mr.  Robert  Creichton  was  Parson  of  taken  place  on  the  13th  April  1563.    On 

Sanquhar,  in  Dumfries-sliire,  and  Canon  the  15th  of  that  month  the  Queen  re- 

of  Glasgow,  in  1549.     He  was  educated  moved  from  Locblevin  to  Perth. 


REASSON- 
YNG  BE- 
TWIX  THE 
QtJENE  AND 
JOHNE 
KNOX. 


372  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

tlie  lawis,  and  lie  durst  promesse  quietness  upoun  the  part  of 
all  tliame  tliat  professed  the  Lord  Jesus  within  Scotland.  But 
yf  hir  Majestie  thought  to  delude  the  lawis,  he  said,  he  feared 
that  some  wold  lett  the  Papistis  understand,  that  without 
punishement,  thei  should  not  be  suffered  so  manifestlie  to 
offend  Goddis  Majestie. 

"  Will  ye,"  quod  sche,  "  allow  that  thei  shall  tack  my  sweard 
in  thair  hand  V 

"  The  Sweard  of  Justice,"  quod  he,  "Madam,  is  Goddis,  and 
is  gevin  to  Princes  and  reuallaris  for  ane  end,  which,  yf  thei 
transgresse,  spairing  the  wicked,  and  oppressing  innocentis, 
thei  that  in  the  fear  of  God  executis  judgement,  whair  God 
lies  commanded,  offendis  not  God,  althought  Kingis  do  it  not ; 
neather  yitt  syiine  thei  that  brydillis  kingis  to  stryck  innocent 
men  in  thair  raige.  The  examples  ar  evident ;  for  Samuell 
feared  not  to  slay  Agag,  the  fat  and  delicate  king  of  Amalech, 
whom  king  Saule  had  saved.  Neather  spaired  Helias  Jesa- 
bellis  fals  propheittis,  and  Baallis  preastis,  albeit  that  king 
Acliab  was  present.  Phyneas  was  no  magistrat,  and  j'lt  feared 
he  not  to  stryck  Cosby  and  Zimbrye  in  the  verray  act  of  fylthie 
fornicatioun.  And  so.  Madam,  your  Grace  may  see  that  otheris 
then  cheaf  magistrattis  may  lauchfullie  punishe,  and  lies 
punished,  the  vice  and  crymes  that  God  comniandis  to  be  pu- 
nished. And  in  this  case  I  wold  earnestlie  pray  your  Majestie 
to  tack  good  advisement,  and  that  your  Grace  should  lett  the 
Papistis  understand,  that  thair  attemptatis  will  not  be  suffered 
unpunissed.  For  power,  be  Act  of  Parliament,  is  gevin  to  all 
judges  within  thair  awin  boundis,  to  searche  niesmongaris,  or 
the  heareris  of  the  same,  and  to  punishe  tliame  according  to 
the  law.  And  thairfoir  it  shalbe  profitable  to  your  Majestie,  to 
considder  what  is  the  thing  your  Grace's  subjectis  lookis  to  re- 
ceave  of  your  Majestie,  and  what  it  is  that  ye  aught  to  do 
unto  thame  by  mutuall  contract.  Thei  ar  bound  to  obey  you, 
and  that  not  but  in  God.     Ye  ar  bound  to  keape  lawis  unto 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLANI>.  373 

tliame.  Ye  crave  of  thame  service  :  tliei  crave  of  you  protec- 
tioiin  and  defence  against  wicked  doaris.  Now,  Madam,  yf 
ye  shall  deny  your  dewtie  unto  tliame,  (which  especialle  craves 
that  ye  punishe  malefactouris)  think  ye  to  receave  full  obe- 
dience of  thame  ?     I  feare,  Madam,  ye  shall  not." 

Heirwith,  she  being-  somewhat  offended,  passed  to  liir  suppar. 
The  said  Johne  Knox  left  hir,  informed  the  Erie  of  Mun-ay  of 
the  lioill  reassonyng,  and  so  departed  of  finall  purpose  to  have 
returned  to  Edinburgh,  without  any  farther  communicatioun 
with  the  Quene  :  But  befoir  the  sonne,  upoun  the  morne,  war 
two  direct  (Watt  Melven  was  the  one^)  to  him,  commanding 
him  not  to  departe  whill  that  he  spack  the  Quenis  Majestie ; 
which  he  did,  and  met  hir  at  the  balking^  be-weast  Kynross. 
Whitther  it  was  the  nychttis  sleape,  or  a  deape  dissimulation 
lokked  in  hir  breast,  that  maid  hir  to  forget  hir  formar  anger, 
wyese  men  may  doubt ;  but  thairof  sche  never  moved  word, 
but  began  diverse  other  purposses ;  such  as  the  offering  of  a 
ring  to  hir  by  the  Lord  Ruthven,^  "  Whome,"  said  she,  "  I  can 
not  love,  (for  I  know  him  to  use  enchantment,)  and  yit  is  he 
maid  one  of  my  Privy  Counsall." 

"  Wlionie  blamis  your  Grace,"  said  the  other,  "  thairof?" 
"  Lethingtoun,"  said  she,  "  was  the  haill  cause." 

^  In  MS.   G,    "  war   two    directed,  faltis,  wherby  we  tint  his  favour.    And 

(Waltei-  Melvill  was  the  one.)" — Wal-  uthers  that  had  ay  bene  in  his  contrair 

ter   Melville,    a    younger   son   of   Sii*  befoir,  cam  in  and  flatterit  him  in  his 

John  INIelville  of  Raith,  was  in  the  Queen  proceedings,  and  bekkit  wery  laiche  to 

Regent's   service,   and   at  the  time  of  him,  calling  him  '  Your  Grace,'  at  ilk 

her  death  received  £30.     At  this  time  word,  &c."    (Memoirs,  Bann.  Club,  edit, 

he   was   in   the   Queen's   service.     He  p.  260.) 

afterwards  became   one  of  the  gentle-  -  Hawking  appears  to  have  been  a 

men  of  the  Earl  of  Murray's  chamber.  favourite  pastime   of  the   Queen.      In 

His  brother,  Sir  James  Melville,  in  re-  April   1562,    Jlatthew  Ker    succeeded 

ference  to  him  and  Kirkaldy  of  Grange,  James  Lindesay  as  "  Maister  Falconar." 

says,  "  Quhilk  twa  tint  him  sa  schone  In  the  same  month  £20  was  paid  to 

(soon)  as  he  became  Regent,  and  lyk-  two  persons,  "  passand  of  Edinburgh  to 

wise  my  self;  for  we  had  bene  fomyliar  Schcitland  for  halkis." 

with  him,  and  had  assisted  him  in  all  ^  Patrick  Lord  Ruthven.     His  grand- 

his  troubles  ;  but  when  he  was  Regent,  son,  Jolm  second  Earl  Gowrye,  was  also 

wald  reprove,  admonish,   and  tell  liis  accused  of  dealing  in  magic. 


374  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

"  That  man  is  absent/'  said  he,  "  for  this  present,  Madam  ; 
and  thairfoir  I  will  sj^eak  nothing  in  that  behalf." 

"  I  understand/'  said  the  Quene,  "  that  ye  ar  appointed  to 
go  to  Drumfreise,  for  the  electioun  of  a  Superintendent  to  be 
establessed  in  thai  countreys." 

"  Yis/'  said  he,  "  those  quarteris  have  great  nead,  and  some 
of  the  gentilmen  so  require." 

"  But  I  hear/'  said  she,  "  that  the  Bischope  of  Athenis^ 
wold  be  Superintendent." 

"  He  is  one,"  said  the  other,  "  Madam,  that  is  put  in  elec- 
tioun." 

"  Yf  ye  knew  him,"  said  sche,  "  als  weall  as  I  do,  ye  wold 
never  promote  him  to  that  office,  nor  yit  to  any  other  within 
your  Kirk." 

"  What  he  hes  bein,"  said  he,  "  Madam,  I  neather  know, 
nor  yitt  will  I  enquyre ;  for,  in  tyme  of  darkness,  what  could 
we  do  but  grop  and  go  wrang  evin  as  darkness  caryed  us  ? 
But  yf  he  fear  not  God  now,  he  deceaves  many  ma  then  me. 
And  yitt,  (said  he,)  Madam,  I  am  assured  God  will  not  suifer 
his  Churche  to  be  so  far  deceaved  as  that  ane  unworthy  man 
slialbe  elected,  whair  free  electioun  is,  and  the  Spreit  of  God 
is  earnestlie  called  upoun  to  decyd  betwix  the  two." 
juDGKMENT  "  Wcall,"  says  she,  "  do  as  ye  will,  but  that  man  is  a  dan- 
BfscHOPEOFgerouseman."2 

TUENib.  ^^^  thairintill  was  nott  the  Queue  deceaved ;  for  he  had 

corrupted  most  part  of  the  gentilmen,  not  onlie  to  nominat 
him,  but   also  to  elect  him ;    which   perceaved   by  the   said 

1  InMS.  G,  "thcBishopof  Cathenis;"  &c.,  (see  page  259,  note  10,)  was  uu- 
(but  the  marginal  note  in  that  MS.  reads  doubtedly  the  person  alluded  to. 
correctly  "  Bishop  of  Athens.")  This  "  In  the  proceedings  of  the  General 
error  in  the  printed  copies  has  led  Mr.  Assemblies,  held  between  June  1562  and 
Tytler  and  others  into  the  mistake  of  August  1575,  (or  less  than  three  months 
sajdng,  tliat  the  Queen  here  referred  to  of  his  death,)  Bishop  Gordon's  name 
"  the  Bishop  of  Caithness."  The  titu-  frequently  occurs.  Having  petitioned 
lar  Archbishop  of  Athens,  Alexander  the  Assembly  in  June  1562,  it  was  de- 
Gordon,  afterwards  Bishop  of  Gallow.ay,  clarcd,  the  Assembly  "  cannot  aeknow- 


1563. 


THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND. 


375 


Joline,  Commissionare,  delayed  the  electioun,  and  left  with 
the  Maister  of  Maxwell,  Mr.  Robert  Pont,  (who  was  put  in 
electioun  with  the  foirsaid  Bischope,)  to  the  end  that  his  doc- 
trin  and  conversatioun  mycht  be  the  better  tryed  of  those  that 
had  not  knawin  him  befoir.  And  so  was  the  Bischope  frus- 
trat  of  his  purpose  for  that  present.  And  yit  was  he,  at  that 
tyme,  the  man  that  was  most  familliare  with  the  said  Johne, 
in  his  house,  and  at  table.  But  now  to  the  formar  conference. 
Wlien  the  Queue  had  long  talked  with  Johne  Knox,  and  he 
being  oft  willing  to  tack  his  leave,  she  said,  "  I  have  one  of 
the  greatest  materis  that  have  tweiched  me  since  I  cam  in 
this  Realme,  to  open  unto  you,  and  I  maun  have  your  help 
into  it."  And  she  began  to  maik  a  long  discourse  of  hir  sis- 
ter, the  Lady  Ergyle,^  how  that  sche  was  not  so  circumspect 


ledge  him  for  a  Superintendent  law- 
fully called  for  the  present;  but  offered 
unto  him  their  aid  and  assistance,  if  the 
Ivirks  of  Galloway  shall  suit  (solicit), 
and  the  Lords  present ;"  and  enjoins 
him  to  subscribe  the  Book  of  Discipline, 
(although  he  seems  actually  to  have 
done  so  in  1561 :  see  page  258.)  On  the 
29th  December  1562,  the  Assembly  no- 
minated for  that  office,  "  Mr.  Alexander 
Gordon,  entitulcd  Bishop  of  Galloway, 
and  Mr.  Robert  Pont,  minister  of  Dun- 
kell ;"  and  ordered  the  inauguration  of 
the  person  elected  to  take  place  in  the 
Parish  Kirk  of  Dumfries,  "  on  the  last 
Lord's  day  of  April."  The  election,  as 
Ivnox  intimates,  did  not  take  place. 
But  Gordon  was  continued  as  Commis- 
sioner for  planting  and  visiting  the 
churches  of  that  diocese ;  although  there 
were  frequent  complaints  made  against 
him. 

3  Lady  Jane  Stewart,  a  natural 
daughter  of  King  James  the  Fifth,  and 
Elizabeth,  daughter  of  John  Lord  Car- 
michael.  Her  marriage  with  Archibald 
fifth  Earl  of  Argyle  took  place  in  April 
1554,  and  pi-ovcd  unfortunate  for  both 


parties ;  but  no  separation  ensued  till 
about  the  year  1 564.  She  received  from 
her  sister,  Queen  Mary,  a  pension  of 
£150,  in  Jime  1565.  She  was  one  of  the 
party  at  supper  in  Holyrood  Palace  the 
night  of  Riccio's  murder,  9th  March 
1566.  She  stood  sponsor  for  Queen  Eli- 
zabeth at  the  baptism  of  James  the 
Sixth.  In  1567,  (15th  November,)  the 
Treasui-er  paid  "  to  Dame  Janet  Stew- 
art, Comptis  of  Ergile,"  .£133,  6s.  8d. 
The  action  of  Divorce  fomided  upon  the 
complaints  of  both  parties,  led  to  a 
lengthened  litigation,  of  which  Mr.  Rid- 
dell  has  furnished  a  detailed  account  in 
his  most  valuable  work  on  Peerage  and 
Consistorial  Law,  vol.  i.  pp.  547-551.  In 
1569,  the  Earl  offered  to  adhere,  and  to 
receive  her  in  his  Castle  of  Dunoon,  but 
the  Lady  now  refused.  At  length  the 
Earl,  on  the  23d  June  1573,  "obtained, 
(says  Ml-.  Riddell,)  a  decree  of  divorce, 
simplicUer,  by  the  Commissaries  of  Edin- 
burgh, adjudging  her  to  have  '  lost  her 
tocher  ad  donutionis  'propter  nuptias.'" 
The  Earl  immediately  availed  himself  of 
this  judgment,  by  forming  an  alliance 
with  Lady  Jane  Ciuiningham,  daughter 


376  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

in  all  tliingis  as  that  sclie  wisslied  liir  to  be.  "  And  yitt,"  said 
sche,  "  my  Lord,  hir  husband,  whom  I  love,  entreattis  liir  not 
in  many  thingis  so  honestlie  and  so  godlie,  as  I  think  ye  your 
self  wold  requyre." 

"  Madam,"  said  he,  "  I  have  been  trubled  with  that  mater 
befoir,  and  anes  I  put  sick  ane  end  to  it,  (and  that  was  befoir 
your  Grace's  arryvall,)  that  boith  she  and  hir  freindis  seamed 
fuUie  to  stand  content :  And  she  hir  self  promessed  befoir  hir 
freinds,  that  sche  should  never  complain  to  creature,  till  that 
I  should  first  imderstand  the  controversie  by  hir  awin  mouth, 
or  ellis  [by  an]  assured  messinger.  I  now  have  heard  nothing 
of  hir  part ;  and  thairfoir  I  think  thair  is  nothing  but  concord." 

"  WealV  said  the  Queue,  "  it  is  war  then  ye  beleve.  But  do 
this  mekle  for  my  saik,  as  anes  agane  to  put  thame  at  unitie ; 
and  if  sche  behave  not  hir  self  so  as  she  aught  to  do,  she  shall 
find  no  favouris  of  me :  But,  in  any  wyse,  (said  sche,)  let  not 
my  Lord  know  that  I  have  requested  you  in  this  mater  ;  for  I 
Avald  be  verray  sorry  to  ofiend  him  in  that  or  any  other  thing. 
And  now,  (said  sche,)  as  tu^ching  our  reassonyng  yisternycht, 
I  promess  to  do  as  ye  requyred  ;  I  sail  caus  summond  all 
ofiendaris,  and  ye  shall  know  that  I  shall  minister  Justice." 

"  I  am  assured  then,"  said  he,  "  that  ye  shall  please  God, 
and  enjoy  rest  and  tranquillitie  within  your  Realme ;  which  to 
your  Majestic  is  more  profitable  than  all  the  Papes  power  can 
be."     And  thus  thei  departed. 

This  conference  we  have  inserted  to  let  the  world  see  how 
deaplie  Makie,  Quene  of  Scotland,  can  dissembill ;  and  how 
that  she  could  cause  men  to  thijik  that  she  bare  no  indigna- 

of  Alexander  Earl  of  Glencairn,  in  the  spous  of  umqiihil  Arcliibald  Erie  of 
month  of  August.  Having  died  within  a  Argyle."  She  died  in  the  Canongate,  7th 
month  of  liis  second  marriage,  12th  Sep-  January  1586-7,  and  was  interred  in 
tember  1573,  (see  page  258 ;)  his  first  the  Royal  Vault  in  the  Abbey  of  Holy- 
wife  soon  afterwards  raised  an  action  rood  Hoiise.  Her  own  settlement  be- 
of  Reduction  of  the  Divorce,  styling  came  the  subject  of  litigation.  (Commis- 
Lady  .Jane  Cunningham,  as  "  pretendit  sary  Court  Records,  11th  Jlarch  1587.) 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  377 

tioun  for  any  controversie  in  rcligioun,  wbill  that  yitt  in  liir 
hearte  was  nothing-  but  vennome  and  destructioun,  as  short 
after  did  appear. 

Johne  Knox  departed,  and  prepaired  him  self  for  his  jorney, 
appointed  to  Drumfreise  ;  and  from  Glasgow,  according  to  the 
Quenis  comraandiment,  he  wraitt  this  Lettir  to  the  Erie  of 
Ergile,  the  tenour  whairof  followis  : — 

"  The  Lord  cumith  and  shall  not  tarie,  &g. 
"  After  commendatioun  of  my  service  unto  your  Lordschipe, 
yf  I  had  knawin  of  your  Lordshipis  suddane  departing,  the 
last  tyme  it  chaunsed  me  to  see  and  speak  you,  I  had  opened 
unto  you  somewhat  of  my  greaf  But  supposing  that  your 
Lordshipe  should  have  remaned  still  with  the  Quenis  Grace,  I 
delayed  at  that  tyme  to  utter  any  part  of  that  which  now  my 
conscience  compelleth  me  to  do.  Your  beha^dour  toward  your 
wyfF  is  verray  offensive  unto  many  godlie.  Hir  complant  is 
grevouse,  that  ye  altogetther  withdraw  the  use  of  your  body 
from  hir.  Yf  so  be,  ye  have  great  nead  to  look  weill  to  your 
awin  estait ;  for  albeit  that  ye  within  your  self  felt  no  more 
repugnance,  than  any  flesche  this  day  on  earth,  yitt  by  pro- 
messe,  maid  befoir  God,  ar  ye  debttour  unto  hir,  as  reassonablie 
ye  shalbe  requyred  of  hir.  But  yf  that  ye  burne  on  the  one 
syd,  (albeit  ye  do  no  worse,)  and  sche  in  your  defalt  upoun  the 
other,  ye  ar  not  onlie  mensworne  befoir  God,  but  also  doeth 
what  in  you  lyeth,  to  kendle  against  your  self  his  wraith  and 
havie  displeasour.  These  wordis  ar  scharpe,  and  God  is  wit- 
nesse  that  in  dolour  of  heart  I  wraitt  thame ;  but  becaus  thei 
ar  trew,  and  pronunced  by  God  himself,  I  dar  not  but  admo- 
nische  you,  perceaving  you,  as  it  war,  sleaping  in  synne.  The 
proude  stubburnes,  whairof  your  Lordship  hath  oft  compleaued, 
will  not  excuise  you  before  God  ;  for  yf  ye  be  not  able  to  con- 
vict hir  of  one  cry  me,  ye  aught  to  beir  with  other  imperfec- 
tionis,  and  that  ye  wold  that  she  should  bear  with  you,  in  the 


378  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

lyik  In  the  bowellis  of  Christ  Jesus,  I  exhort  you,  my  Lord, 
to  have  respect  to  your  a  win  salvatioun,  and  not  to  abuse  the 
lenitie  and  long  suffering  of  God :  for  that  is  a  fearful!  treasure 
that  ye  heap  upoun  your  awin  head,  whill  that  he  calleth  you 
to  reapentance,  and  you  obstinatlie  contineu  in  your  awin  im- 
pietie ;  for  impietie  it  is,  that  ye  abstract  your  confort  and 
cumpany  from  your  lauchfull  wyff.  I  wiytt  nothing  in  de- 
fence of  hir  mysbehavour  towardis  your  Lordship  in  any  sort ; 
but  I  say,  yf  ye  be  not  able  to  convict  hir  of  adulteric  com- 
mitted since  your  last  reconciliatioun,  which  was  in  my  pre- 
sence, that  ye  can  never  be  excuissed  befoir  Grod  of  this 
freammed  and  strange  intreatment  of  your  wyff.  And  yf  by 
you  such  impietie  be  committed,  as  is  braited,  then,  befoir 
God,  and  unto  your  awin  conscience  I  say,  that  everie  moment 
of  that  fylthie  pleasure  shall  turne  to  you  in  a  yearis  displea- 
sur ;  yea,  it  shalbe  the  occasioun  and  cans  of  everlasting 
dampnatioun,  onless  spedelie  ye  reapent :  and  reapent  ye  can 
nott,  except  that  ye  desist  from  that  impietie.  Call  to  mynd, 
my  Lord,  '  That  the  servand  kna\ving  the  will  of  his  Lord, 
and  doing  the  contrarie,  shalbe  plagued  with  many  plagues,' 
Syn,  my  Lord,  is  sweat  in  drinkyng,  but  in  digesting  more  bit- 
ter then  the  gall.  The  Eternall  move  your  heart  earnestlie  to 
considder,  how  fearfull  a  thing  it  is  ever  to  have  God  to  be 
[ane]  ennemye. 

"  In  the  end,  I  most  heartlie  pray  your  Lordship,  not  to  be 
absent  from  Edinburgh  the  nynetene  of  this  instant,  for  sick 
causses  as  I  will  not  wraitt.  This  much  onlie  I  foirwarne  your 
Lordship,  that  it  will  nott  be  profitable  for  the  commoun 
quyetness  of  this  Realme,  that  the  Papistis  brag,  and  that 
justice  be  mocked  that  day.  And  thus  I  cease  farther  to 
truble  your  Lordship,  whom  God  assist.  In  haist  from  Glasgu, 
the  7.  of  May  1563.  Your  Lordships  to  command  in  godlynes. 
{Sic  suhscrihitur.) 

'•'  JOHNE  KnOX.'' 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  379 

This  bill  was  not  weall  accepted  of  the  said  Erie ;  and  yitt 
did  he  utter  no  part  of  his  displeasur  in  publict,  but  con- 
trairrelie  schew  him  self  most  familiar  with  the  said  Johne. 
He  keapt  the  dyett,  and  sat  in  judgment  him  self,  whair  the 
Bischope  and  the  rest  of  the  Papistis  war  accused,  as  after 
foUowis. 

The  summondis  war  direct  against  the  Messe-mongaris  with 
expeditioun,  and  in  the  streatest  form.  The  day  was  appoint- 
ed the  xix  of  May,  a  day  onlie  befoir  the  Parliament.  Off  the 
Papis  knychtisi  compeared  the  Bischop  of  Sanctandrois,^  the 
Priour  of  Wliitthorne,^  the  Parsone  of  Sanquhair,^  Williame 
Hammyltoun  of  Camskeyth,  Johne  Gordoun  of  Barskeoghe, 
with  otheris  diverse.  The  Protestantis  convened  hoill  to  crave 
for  justice.  The  Queue  asked  counsall  of  the  Bischope  of 
Ross,^  and  of  the  old  Laird  of  Lethingtoun,^  (for  the  youngar 
was  absent,  and  so  the  Protestantis  had  the  fewar  unfreindis,) 
who  affirmed,  "  That  she  must  see  hir  la  wis  keapt,  or  ellis  she 
wold  get  no  obedience."  And  so  was  preparatioun  maid  for 
thair  accusationis.  The  Bischope,  and  his  band  of  the  ex- 
empted sorte,  maid  it  nyse  to  entyre  befoir  the  Erie  of  Argyle 
who  sat  in  judgement  -^  butt  at  last  he  was  compelled  to  entir 
within  the  barr.     A  nieary  man,  (who  now  sleapis  in  the  Lord,) 

1  On  the  15th  of  February  1562-3,  don  of  Barskeocht.  Most  of  the  persons 
proclamation  had  been  made  for  Par-  were  committed  to  ward  in  Edinburgh, 
liament  to  assemble  on  the  20th  March.  Dumbarton,  and  other  places.  See  Pit- 
It  was  delayed  till  the  26th  of  that  cairn's  Criminal  Trials,  vol.  i.  p.  *427, 
month  :  see  next  page,  note  2.  and  the  Diurnal  of  Occirrrents,  p.  75. 

2  On  the  19th   of  May   1563,   John  ^  See  page  370,  note  4. 
Archbishop  of  St.  Andrews,  and  forty-          *  See  page  371,  note  3. 

seven  others,    chiefly  persons  in  holy  ^  Henry  Sinclair,  Bishop  of  Ross,  and 

orders,  were  tried  before  the  Court  of  President  of  the  Court  of  Session. 

Justiciary  for  celebrating  Mass,  and  at-  ^  Sir  Richard  Maitland  of  Lethingtou. 

tempting  to  restore  Popery,   at  Kirk  This  venerable  Judge  was  born  in  1496, 

Oswald,  Maybole,  Paisley,  and  Congal-  and  survived  till  1586.     His  attachment 

ton.     Among   the    pannels    were    the  to  literature  has  conferred  an  enduiing 

persons  mentioned  by  Knox — Malcolm  celebrity  on  his  name. 

Prior  of  Whitehorn,  Robert  Creichton,  ^  Archibald  Earl  of  Argyle,  as  here- 

parson  of  Sanciuhar,  William  Hamilton,  ditary  Lord  Cliief  Justice,  presided  on 

tutor  of  Cammiskeyth,  and  John  Gor-  such  occasions. 


380  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

ROBERT        Robert  Norwell,  instead  of  the  Bisclioppis  croce,  bair  befoir 
I'^cT.  liin-i  a  steyll  hammer  ;  wliairat  the  Bischope  and  his  band  was 

not  a  lytill  offended,  becaus  the  Bischoppis  priviledges  war 
nott  then  currant  in  Scotland,  (which  day  God  grant  oure  pos- 
teritie  may  see  of  longar  continuance  then  we  possessed  it.) 
The  Bischope  and  his  fellowis,  after  much  ado,  and  long  dryft 
of  tyme,  cam  in  the  Quenis  will,  and  war  committed  to  warde, 
some  to  one  place,  some  to  ane  other.  The  Lady  Erskin,^  (a 
sweatt  morsall  for  the  devillis  mouth,)  gatt  the  Bischoppis  for 
hir  part.  All  this  was  done  of  a  most  deape  craft,  to  abuse 
the  simplicitie  of  the  Protestantis,  that  thei  should  not  prease 
the  Queue  with  any  other  thing  concernyng  materis  of  reli- 
gioun  at  that  Parliament,  quhilk  began  within  two  dayis  thair- 
efter.2  Sche  obteined  of  the  Protestantis  whatsoever  sche  de- 
syred ;  for  this  was  the  reassone  of  many,  "  We  see  what  the 
Queue  has  done ;  the  lyek  of  this  was  never  heard  of  within 
the  Realme :  we  will  bear  with  the  Queue  ;  we  doubt  not 
but  all  shalbe  weill."  Otheris  war  of  a  contrarie  judgement, 
and  foirspak  thingis,  as  after  thei  cam  to  pas,  to  wit,  that  no- 
thing was  meant  but  deceat ;  and  that  the  Queue,  how  soon 
that  ever  Parliament  was  past,  should  set  the  Papistis  at  free- 
dome  :  and  thairfoir  willed  the  Nobilitie  not  be  abused.  But 
becaus  many  had  thair  privat  commoditie  to  be  handilled  at 
that  Parliament,  the  common  n  cause  was  the  less  regarded. 
The  Erie  of  Huntley,   whose  corps  had  lyn  unburyed  till 

1  Daughter  of  Sii-  William  Murray  of  of  the  two  Earles,  Huntley  and  Suther- 
Tullibardiue  :  see  page  128,  note  2.  land."     In  like  manner,  the  Diurnal  of 

2  The  meeting  of  Parliament  took  Occurrents  states,  that  "  Upon  the  xxvj 
place  on  the  26th  May  1563.  Ran-  day  of  the  said  moneth  of  Maij,  the 
dolph,  on  the  3d  June,  writes  thus  to  Quenis  Majestic  come  to  the  Tolbuith  of 
Cecil :  "  The  Parliament  began  26th  Edinbm-gh,  with  the  Lordis  of  Parlia- 
May,  on  which  day  the  Queen  came  to  ment,  in  the  maist  honourable  manner, 
it  in  her  robes,  and  crowned ;  the  Duke  and  past  thairin ;  and  efter  that  she  had 
carrying  the  crown,  Argill  the  scepter,  maid  hir  proposition  and  orisoun  in 
and  Murray  the  sword.  She  made  in  Parliament,  the  Lordis  chesit  the  Lordis 
English  an  oration  publiquely  there,  of  the  Articles,"  &c.  (p.  76.) 
and  was  present  at  the  condemnation 


THE 

JUDGEMENT 
OF  SOME. 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  381 

that  tymc,  it  was  l>  .  u  ;lit  to  tlie  Tolbuytli  :i  he  was  accused,  ^^^Z^^^ 
his  arnies  rent  of,  him  self,  the  Erie  of  Sudclerland,  and  ellevin  ^^^'^'••°- 
Baronis  and  Lairdis,  bearing  Gordoun  to  surname,  war  that  day 
foirfalted.  The  Lady  Huntley  craftely  protested,  and  asked 
the  support  of  a  man  of  law.  In  that  Parliament  war  re- 
stored the  Laird  of  Grange  in  Fyif,  Maister  Henrie  Balnaves, 
Johne  Lesly,  and  Alexander  Whytlaw.^ 

Such  styncken  piwde  of  women  as  was  sein  at  that  Parlia-  the  pryde 
ment,  was  never  sein  befoir  in  Scotland.     Thre  syndrie  davis  ^^  that 
the  Queue  raid  to  the  Tolbuyth.     The  first  day  sche  maid  a  ^^^''■ 
paynted  orisoun  ;^  and  thair  mycht  have  bene  hard  among  hir 
flatteraris,  "  Vox  Diance  !   The  voce  of  a  Q-oddess,  (for  it  could  flatter- 

O  '     V  ARESVNEW. 

not  be  Dei,)  and  not  of  a  woman  !    God  save  that  sweat  face  ! 
Was  thair  ever  oratour  spack  so  properlie  and  so  sweitlie  ! " 

All  thingis  myslyking*  the  Preachearis,  thei  spack  boldlie 
against  the  tarejatting  of  thair  taillies,  and  against  the  rest  of 
thair  vanitie,  which  thei  affirmed  shduld  provock  Goddis  ven- 
geance, not  onlie  against  those  foolishe  women,  but  against  the 
hoill  Realme ;  and  especiallie  against  those  that  manteaned 
thame  in  that  odiouse  abusing  of  thingis  that  mycht  have  bene 
better  bestowed.  Articles  war  presented  for  ordour  to  be 
tacken  for  aj)perall,  and  for  reformatioun  of  other  enoi'mities  ; 
but  all  was  scripj)ed  at.  The  Earldome  of  Murray  neaded  confir- 
raatioun,  and  many  thingis  war  to  be  ratified  that  concerned 

*  According  to  a  barbarous  custom,  in  am  kist,   &c. ;   and  als  Alexander 

the  body  of  a  person   deceased,  "when  Erie  of  Sutherland  -was  foirfaltit,  and 

accused  of  treason,  was  brought  into  the  saidis  Erlis  armes  reven  and  deletit 

Coui-t.     It  will  be  seen  from  the  note  at  fm-th  of  memorie."     (Diurnal  of  Occiu-- 

page  359,  that  Huntley's  body,  in  the  rents,  p.  76.) 

view  of  carrying  through  his  forfeitiu-e,  '^  The  record  of  this  Parliament  is 
had  been  brought  to  Edinburgh  in  De-  lost ;  and  in  the  piinted  Acts  no  men- 
cember  1562.  And,  "  Upoun  the  xx\'iij  tion  is  made  of  the  forfeitm-es  of  Kirk- 
day  of  the  said  moneth,  [May  1563]  the  aldy  of  Grange,  Bahiavis  of  HaUiill,  Les- 
Quenis  Majestic  come  to  the  Tolbuith  of  ley  of  Parkhill,  and  Whytlaw  of  Xew- 
Edinburgh  and  Lordis  of  Parliament,  at  Grange,  haviag  been  rescinded, 
ane  efternone,  and  foirfaltit  George  Erie  ^  In  MS.  G,  "  an  oration." 
of  Huntlie,  being  in  the  said  Tolhuyth  *  In  MS.  G,  "  mislyked." 


382  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

wHY^RELi.  ^i^Q  i^gip  Qf  friendis  and  servandis  ;  and  tliah-foir  thei  myglit 
coMAiouN-    ^0^^  ^^&6  ^^^^  Quene,  for  yf  tliei  so  did,  she  wald  liald  no  Par- 
war'boyth  liameut ;  and  what  then  should  become  of  thame  that  had  mel- 
NEGLECTED.  j^^  ^.^j^  ^j^^  skughtor  of  tho  Erie  of  Huntley  ?     Lett  that 
Parliament  pas  ovver,  and  when  the  Quene  asked  ^  any  thing 
of  the  Nobilitie,  as  sclie  most  do  befoir  hir  mariage,  then 
should    the  Religioun    be    the    first    thing    that    should    be 
establessed.     It  was  answered,  That  the  poetts  and  paynteris 
erred  nott  altogether,  that  fayned  and  paynted  Occasioun  with 
a  bald  hynd-head :  2  for  the  first,  when  it  is  offered,  being  lost, 
is  hard  to  be  recovered  againe.     The  mater  fell  so  bote  betwix 
the  Erie  of  Murray  and  some  otheris  of  the  Courte,  and  Johne 
Knox,  that  familiarlie  after   that  tyme  thei  spack   nott   to- 
VAMANCE    getther  more  then  a  year  and  half ;  for  the  said  Johne,  by  his 
OF  muerIy  letter,  gave  a  discharge  to  the  said  Erie  of  all  further  intromis- 
KNox.°"'^^  sioun  or  cayr  with  his  effaires.     He  maid  unto  him  a  discourse 
of  tliair  first  acquaintance  ;  in  what  estait  he  was  when  that 
first  thei  spack  togetther  in  London  ;^   how  God  had  promoted 
him,  and  that  abuf  manis  judgement ;  and  in  the  end  maid 
this  conclusioun,  "  But  seing  that  I  perceave  myself  frustrat 
of  my  expectatioun,  which  was,  that  ye  should  ever  have  pre- 
ferred God  to  your  awin  afi'ectioun,  and  the  advancement  of 
his  treuth  to  your  singular  commoditie,  I  committ  you  to  your 
awin  wytt,   and  to  the  conducting  of  those  who   better   can 
please  you.     I  j)raise  my  God,  I  this  day  leave  you  victour  of 
your  enemyes,  promoted  to  great  honouris,  and  in  credytt  and 
authoritie  Avith  your  Soverane.     Yf  so  ye  long  continew,  none 
within  the  Realrae  shalbe  more  glad  than  I  shalbe :    but  yf 
that  after  this  ye  shall  dekay,  (as  I  fear  that  ye  shall,)  then 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  sail  ask."  time  in  London  on  his  way  to  France, 

2  In  MS.  G,  is  this  marginal  note,  or  upon  Ms  return  in  December  fol- 
"  Occasioun  painted  with  a  bald  hind-  lowing.  In  1556-7,  he  subscribed  the 
heid."  letter  sent  to  Knox  at  Geneva,  inviting 

3  This  was  probably  in  July  1552,  him  to  return  to  Scotland.  See  vol.  i. 
Lord  James  having  remained  for  some  p.  207. 


NOXES 
DISCHARGE 
TO  THE 
ERLE  OF 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  383 

call  to  mynd  by  what  meanes  God  exalted  you ;  quhilk  was 
neatlier  by  bearing  with  impietie,  neather  yitt  by  manteanyng 
of  pestilent  Papistis." 

This  bill  and  discharge  was  so  pleasing  to  the  flatteraris  of  '^^^^ 
the  said  Erie,  that  thei  triumphed  of  it,  and  war  glad  to  have 
gotten  thair  occasioun ;  for  some  invyed  that  so  great  fami-  mue'eay. 
liaritie  was  betwix  the  said  Erie  and  Johne  Knox.  And  thair- 
foir  fra  the  tyme  that  thei  gat  ones  that  occasioun  to  separat 
tharae,  thei  ceassed  nott  to  cast  oyle  in  the  burnyng  flambe, 
which  ceassed  nott  to  burne,  till  that  God  by  watter  of  afflic- 
tioun,  began  to  slocken  it,  as  we  shall  after  hear.  But  least 
that  theii  should  alltogetther  have  bein  sein  to  have  foir- 
saikin  God,  (as  in  verray  deid  boyth  God  and  his  Word  was  far 
frome  the  hearttis  of  the  most  parte  of  the  Courteouris  in  that 
aige,  and  a  fewe  excepted,)  thei  began  a  newe  schift,  to  wit, 
to  speak  of  the  punishement  of  adulteiye,  of  witchcraft,  and  to 
seik  the  restitutioun  of  the  glebes  and  manses  to  the  Ministeris 
of  the  Kirk,  and  of  the  reparatioun  of  churches  :  and  thairby 
thei  thought  to  have  pleased  the  godlye  that  w^ar  hyghtlie 
offended  at  thair  slackness. 

The  Act  of  Oblivioun  passed,  becaus  some  of  the  Lordis 
had  intresse ;  but  the  actis  against  adulter^^e,  and  for  the 
mansses  and  gleibes,  war  so  modifyed,  that  no  law,  and  such 
law  mycht  stand  in  eodem  predicamento  ;  to  speak  plaine,  no 
law  and  such  Actis  war  boyth  alyik.  The  Actis  ar  in  prynt  :^ 
lett  wyese  men  read,  and  then  accuse  us,  yf  without  cause  we 
compleane. 

1  After  the  words,  "  least  that  they,"  burghby  Robert  Lekprewik,  1-565,  folio, 
in  the  margin  of  MS.  1566,  there  was  —an  edition  of  great  rarity.  The  Acts 
added,  "  Lethingtoun  and  his  Com-  of  1563,  are  twenty-five  in  number, 
panyons ;"  but  this  note  was  afterwards  "  extractit  forth  of  the  builds  of  Par- 
deleted.  At  this  Parliament,  Lethington  liament,"  by  Maister  James  Makgill, 
was  not  present.  Two  or  thi-ee  slight  Clerk  Register.  They  are  included  in 
corrections  in  the  text  of  the  MS.  also  the  collected  edition  of  the  Acts  of  1424 
occur  in  this  place.  to  1564,  which  issued  from  the  same 

"  The  Acts  of  this  Parliament  were  press  in  1566,  and  in  all  the  subsequent 

printed   in   a  separate  form   at  Edin-  editions. 


384  THE  HISTORY  OP  Book  IV. 

In  the  progresse  of  this  corruptioun,  and  befoir  the  Parlia- 
joHNE         ment  dissolved,  Johne  Knox,  in  his  semion  befoir  the  most 

KXOX  HIS 

sERMox.  parte  of  the  Nobilitie,  began  to  enter  in  a  deape  discourse  of 
Goddis  mercyes  which  that  Realme  had  felt,  and  of  that  ingra- 
titude quliilk  he  espyed  almost  in  the  hoill  multitude,  which 
Grod  had  marvelouslie  delivered  from  the  boundage  and  tyran- 
nye  boyth  of  body  and  saule.  "  And  now,  my  Lordis,"  said  he, 
"  I  praise  my  God,  throught  Jesus  Christ,  that  in  your  awin 
presence  I  may  powre  furth  the  sorowis  of  my  hearte ;  yea, 
your  selfis  shalbe  witnesse,  yf  that  I  shall  maik  any  ley  in 
thingis  that  ar  bypast.  From  the  begyning  of  Goddis  myghty 
wirking  within  this  Realme,  I  have  bein  with  you  in  your 
most  desperat  tentationis.  Ask  your  awin  consciences,  and  lett 
thame  answer  you  befoir  God,  yf  that  I,  (not  I,  but  Goddis 
Spirite  by  me,)  in  your  greatest  extremitie  willed  you  nott  ever 
to  depend  upoun  your  God,  and  in  his  name  promissed  unto 
you  victorye  and  preservatioun  from  your  ennemyes,  so  that 
ye  wold  only  depend  uponn  his  protectioun,  and  preferr  his 
glory  to  your  awin  lyves  and  worldlie  commoditie.  In  your 
most  extreame  dangearis  I  have  bein  with  you :  Sanct  Joline- 
stoun,  Cowper  Mure,  and  the  Craiggis  of  Edinburgh,  ar  yitt 
recent  in  my  heart;  yea,  that  dark  and  dolorouse  nyght 
whairin  all  ye,  my  Lordis,  with  schame  and  feare  left  this 
toune,-^  is  yitt  in  my  niynd  ;  and  God  forbid  that  ever  I  forgett 
it.  "What  was  (I  say)  my  exhortatioun  unto  you,  and  what  is 
fallen  in  vane  of  all  that  ever  God  promised  unto  you  by  my 
mouth,  ye  your  selfis  yitt  lyve  to  testifie.  Thair  is  nott  one  of 
you  against  whom  was  death  and  destructioun  threatned, 
perished  in  that  danger:  And  how  many  of  your  ennemyes 
hes  God  plagued  befoir  your  eyis  !     Shall  this  be  the  thank- 

1  After  the  skirmish  of  Rcstah-ig,  (see  left    thair    artailzerie    void    upon    the 

vol.  i.  pp.  460-463,)  on  Monday  the  6th  calsay  lyand,  and  the  Toun   [of  Edin- 

November  1559,   "the  said  day  at  evin  burgh]  desolute."     (Diurnal  of  Occur 

inthenycht,theCongregatioundepairtit  rents,  p.  54.) 
furth  of  Edinburgh  to  Lynlithquo,  and 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  385 

fulness  that  je  shall  render  unto  your  God,  to  betray  his  cause, 
when  ye  have  it  in  your  awin  handis  to  establesh  it  as  ye 
please  ?  The  Queue,  say  ye,  will  not  agree  with  us :  Ask  ye 
of  hir  that  which  by  Groddis  word  ye  may  justlie  requyre,  and 
yf  she  will  not  agree  with  you  in  Grod,  ye  ar  not  bound  to 
agree  with  hir  in  the  Devill :  Lett  her  plainelie  understand  so 
far  of  your  myndis,  and  steall  not  from  your  formar  stoutness 
in  God,  and  he  shall  prosper  you  in  your  interpiyses.  But  I 
can  see  nothing  but  such  a  reculling  frome  Christ  Jesus,  as 
the  man  that  first  and  most  spedelie  flyeth  from  Christis 
enseignzie,  hbldeth  him  self  most  hapjjy.  Yea,  I  hear  that 
some  say.  That  we  have  nothing  of  our  Religioun  establesshed,  '7"^ , 
neather  by  Law  or  Parliament.  Albeit  that  the  malitious  ^^^J^^of 
wordis  of  sick  can  neather  hurte  the  treuth  of  God,  nor  yitt  us  e''s''-^^Ri*^- 
that  thaii-upoun  depend,  yitt  the  speakar  for  his  treasone 
against  God  committed,  and  against  this  poore  Commoun- 
wealth,  deserves  the  gallowes.  For  oure  Religioun  being  com- 
manded, and  so  establesshed  by  God,  is  accepted  within  this 
Realme  in  publict  Parliament ;  and  yf  thei  will  say  that  was 
no  Parliament,  we  man,  and  Avill  say,  and  also  prove,  that  that 
Parliament  was  also  lauchfuU  as  ever  any  that  passed  befoir 
it  within  this  Realme.  Yea,  yf  the  King  then  lyving^  was 
King,  and  the  Queue  now  in  this  Realme  be  lauchfnll  Queue, 
that  Parliament  can  nott  be  denyed. 

"  And  now,  my  Lordis,  to  jmtt  end  to  all,  I  hear  of  the 
Quenis  mariage  :  Duckis,  brethren  to  Emperouris,  and  Kingis, 
stryve  all  for  the  best  game ;  but  this,  my  Lordis,  will  I  say, 
(note  the  day,  and  beare  Avitnesse  efter,)  whensoever  the  No- 
bilitie  of  Scotland  professing  the  Lord  Jesus,  consentis  that 
ane  infidell  (and  all  Papistis  are  infidellis)  shalbe  head  to  K^Nvik^ms 
your  Soverane,  ye  do  so  far  as  in  ye  lyeth  to  banishe  Christ  :^i"Jn^'*^" 
Jesus  from  this  Realme  ;  ye  bring  Goddis  vengeance  upoun 

>  Mr.  John  Sinclair,  Dean  of  Eestal-  -  This  refers  to  Queen   Mary's  first 

rig,  and  afterwards  Lord  President  of,  husbaud,  Francis  the  Second,  who  was 

the  Court  of  Session.  styled  King  of  France  and  Scotland. 

VOL.  IL  2  li 


386 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


tlie  countrey,  a  plague  iipoun  your  self,  and  perchaunse  ye 
shall  do  small  conforte  to  your  Soverane." 

These  wordis,  and  this  maner  of  speaking  was  judged  intol- 
lerable.  Papistis  and  Protestantis  war  both  offended  ;  yea,  his 
most  familiaris  disdained  him  for  that  speaking.  Placeboes 
and  flatteraris  posted  to  the  Courte  to  geve  advertisement  that 
Knox  had  spockin  against  the  Quenis  mariage.  The  Pro- 
veist  of  Lyncluden,^  Dowglass  of  Drumlangrik  by  surname,  was 
the  man  that  geve  the  charge  that  the  said  Joline  should  pre- 
sent him  self  befoir  the  Queue  :  quliilk  he  did  sone  after  den- 
nar.  The  Lord  Ochiltrie,  and  diverse  of  the  faythfull,  bayr 
him  cumpany  to  the  Abbay  ;  but  none  past  in  to  the  Queue 
with  him  in  the  cabinet  but  Johne  Erskine  of  Dune,  then 
Superintendent  of  Anguss  and  Mearnes.^ 


1  In  MS.  1566,  it  was  originally  writ- 
ten "  The  Persone  of  Dundrennan," 
but  this  is  deleted,  and  "Proveist  of 
Lyncluden,  Douglas  of  Drumlanrig  by 
name,"  inserted.  In  the  MS.  the  name 
Lyncluden  appears  as  if  written  Glyn- 
cluden;  and  this  form  of  the  name  is 
retained  in  the  later  MSS.,  adding  an 
additional  blunder,  by  writing,  "  N. 
Douglas  of  Lanerk  by  surname,  &c." — 
Lincluden  was  a  Priory  or  Convent  of 
Black  Nuns,  situated  upon  the  water  of 
Cluden  a  few  miles  above  Dumfries ; 
but  owing  to  their  scandalous  lives,  the 
Priory  had  been  changed  by  the  Earl  of 
Douglas,  in  the  reign  of  Robert  the 
Third,  into  a  College  or  Provostry. 
(Keith's  Catalogue,  pp.  459,  470.) 

According  to  the  peerage  writers,  Mr. 
Robert  Douglas,  Provost  of  Lincluden, 
(from  whom  the  Douglasses  of  Burford 
are  descended,)  was  the  second  son  of 
Sir  William  Douglas  of  Drumlanrig,  who 
was  killed  at  Floddon  in  1513.  But 
Chalmers  has  shown,  that  he  was  the 
natural  son  of  Sir  James  Douglas  of 
Drumlanrig,  who  succeeded  to  the 
estates  in  1513,  and  died  in  1578.     Mr. 


Robert  Douglas  obtained  letters  of  legi- 
timation, 8th  October  1559,  being  twelve 
years  after  his  appointment  as  Provost 
of  Lincluden,  16th  September  1547. 
(Caledonia,  vol.  iii.  p.  309.)  In  Decem- 
ber 1585,  Mr.  Robert  Douglas  still  re- 
tained his  title  as  Provost  of  Lincluden, 
and  the  fruits  of  the  benefice,  when  a 
gift  of  the  Provostrie  was  ratified  by  an 
Act  of  Parliament  in  favour  of  William 

Douglas,  lawful  son  to  . Douglas  of 

Drumlanrig.  (Acta  Pari.  Scot.  vol.  iii. 
pp.  415,  436.)  About  the  same  time  he 
was  appointed  Collector  General  and 
Treasm-er  of  the  New  Augmentations  : 
he  is  so  styled  in  deeds  and  Parliament- 
ai-y  proceedings  between  1587  and  1594. 
William  Douglas  of  Lincluden  and 
Grcnelaw,  "  the  eldest  son  and  apparent 
heii'  of  William  Douglas  of  Baitfox'd," 
was  tried  and  executed  at  Edinburgh  in 
September  1610.  (Pitcairn's  Criminal 
Trials,  vol.  iii.  p.  90.) 

-  This  interview  with  the  Queen  must 
have  been  at  the  end  of  May  or  begin- 
ning of  .Time,  as  Knox  says  it  was  im- 
mediately after  a  sermon  he  had  preach- 
ed before  Parliament  was  dissolved. 


1563.  THE  REFOR.^rATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  387 

The  Queue,  in  a  vehement  fume,  began  to  ciy  out,  that 
never  Prince  was  handled  as  she  was.  "  I  have,"  said  sche, 
"  borne  with  you  in  all  your  rigorouse  manor  of  speaking,  bay  th 
against  my  self  and  against  my  Uncles  ;  yea,  I  have  sought 
your  favouris  by  all  possible  meanes.  I  offerred  unto  you  pre-  hjme 
sence  and  audience  whensoever  it  pleassed  you  to  admonishe  jo"ne 
me ;  and  yitt  I  can  nott  be  quyte  of  you.  I  avow  to  God,  I 
shalbe  anes  revenged.''  And  with  these  wordis,  skarslie  could 
Marnock,!  hir  secreat  chalmer-boy,  gett  neapkynes  to  hold  hyr 
eyes  diye  for  the  tearis ;  and  the  owling,  besydes  womanlie 
weaping,  stayed  hir  speiche. 

The  said  Johne  did  patientlie  abyde  all  the  first  fume,  and 
att  opportunitie  answered,  "  Trew  it  is,  Madam,  your  Grace  ansurk. 
and  I  have  bein  att  diverse  controversies,  into  the  which  I  ' 
never  perceaved  your  Grace  to  be  offended  at  me.  Butt  when 
it  shall  please  God  to  deliver  you  fra  that  bondage  of  darknes 
and  errour  in  the  which  ye  have  been  nurisshed,  for  the  lack 
of  trew  doctrin,  your  Majestic  will  fynd  the  libertie  of  my 
toung  nothing  offensive.  "Without  the  preaching  place,  Madam, 
I  think  few  have  occasioun  to  be  offendit  at  me  ;  and  thair, 
Madam,  I  am  nott  maister  of  my  self,  but  man  obey  Him  who 
commandis  me  to  speik  plane,  and  to  flatter  no  flesche  upoun 
the  face  of  the  earth.'' 

"  But  what  have  ye  to  do,"  said  sche,  "  with  my  mariage  ?" 

"  Yf  it  pleise  your  Majestic,"  said  he,  ''patientlie  to  hear  me, 
I  shall  schaAv  the  treuth  in  plane  Avordis.  I  grant  your  Grace 
offered  unto  me  more  than  ever  I  requyred  ;  but  my  answer 
was  then,  as  it  is  now,  that  God  hath  not  sent  me  to  await 
tipoun  the  courtes  of  Princesses,  nor  upoun  the  chamberis  of 
""La dyes  ;  but  I  am  send  to  preache  the  Evangell  of  Jesus  Christ, 

*  Evidenllj'  th^  same  person  with  names  of  persons,  in  this  curious  re- 
Mama,  whose  name  occurs  among  the  cord,  are  very  incorrectly  written.  A 
"  gentilhomes  serva7i.«,''  in  the  "  Menu  few  copies  were  printed  for  private  cir- 
de  la  Maison  de  la  Royne,  faict  par  culation,  by  Thomas  Thomson,  Esq.,  in 
Mens,   de  Pinguillon,"   1562 ;    as  the  1818,  4to. 


388  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

to  such  as  please  to  hear  it ;  and  it  hath  two  partes,  Repent- 
ance and  Fayth.  And  now,  Madam,  in  preaching  reapentance, 
of  necessitie  it  is  that  the  synnes  of  men  be  so  noted,  that 
thei  may  know  whairin  thei  offend ;  but  so  it  is,  that  the  most 
parte  of  your  Nobilitie  ar  so  addicted  to  your  affectionis,  that 
neather  God  his  word,  nor  yitt  thair  Commounwealth,  ar 
lychtlie  regarded.  And  thairfoir  it  becomes  me  so  to  speak, 
that  thei  may  know  thair  dewitie." 

"  Wliat  have  ye  to  do,"  said  sche,  "  with  my  mariage  ?  Or 
what  ar  xe  within  this  Commounwealth  ? " 

"  A  subject  bonie  within  the  same,"  said  he,  "  Madam.  And 
albeit  I  neather  be  Erie,  Lord,  nor  Barroun  within  it,  yitt  hes 
God  maid  me,  (how  abject  that  ever  I  be  in  your  eyes,)  a  pro- 
fitable member  within  the  same :  Yea,  Madam,  to  me  it  ap- 
perteanes  no  lesse  to  foirwarne  of  suche  thingis  as  may  hurte  it, 
yf  I  foii'see  thame,  then  it  does  to  any  of  the  Nobilitie ;  for 
boyth  my  vocatioun  and  conscience  craves  playness  of  me.  And 
thairfoir.  Madam,  to  your  self  I  say  that  whiche  I  speak  in 
publict  place :  Whensoever  that  the  Nobilitie  of  this  Realme 
shall  consent  that  ye  be  subject  to  ane  unfaythfull  husband, 
thei  do  as  muche  as  in  thame  lyeth  to  renunce  Christ,  to 
LKTT  banishe  his  treuth  from  thame,  to  betray  the  fredome  of  this 

JUDGE         Realme,  and  perchance  shall  in  the  end  do  small  conforte  to 

THIS  DAY,  ^ 

1567.         your  self" 

At  these  wordis,  owling  was  heard,  and  tearis  mycht  have 
bene  sein  in  greattar  abundance  than  the  mater  requyred. 
Johne  Erskin  of  Dun,  a  man  of  meak  and  gentill  spreit,  stood 
besyd,  and  entreated  what  he  could  to  mitigat  hir  anger,  and 
gave  unto  hir  many  pleasing  wordis  of  hir  beautie,  of  hir  excel- 
lence, and  how  that  all  the  Princes  of  Europe  wold  be  glaid  to 
seak  hir  favouris.  But  all  that  Avas  to  cast  oyle  in  the  flaming 
fyre.  The  said  Johne  stood  still,  without  any  alteratioun  of 
countenance  for  a  long  seasson,  whill  tliat  the  Quene  gave 
place   to   hir  inordinat  passioun ;    and   iu  the  end  he  said. 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  389 

"  Madam,  in  Goddis  presence  I  speak  :  I  never  delyted  in  tlie 
weaping  of  any  of  Goddis  creatures ;  yea,  I  can  skarslie  weill 
abyd  the  tearis  of  my  awin  boyes  wliome  my  awin  hand  cor- 
rectis,  much  less  can  I  rejoise  in  your  Majesties  weaping.  But 
seing  that  I  have  offered  unto  you  no  just  occasioun  to  be 
offended,  but  have  spocken  the  treuth,  as  my  vocatioun  craves 
of  me,  I  man  sustean  (albeit  unwillinglie)  your  Majesties 
tearis,  rather  then  I  dar  hurte  my  conscience,  or  betray  my 
Commounwealth  through  my  silence." 

Heirwith  was  the  Queue  more  offended,  and  commanded  the 
said  Joline  to  pass  furtli  of  the  cabinet,  and  to  abyd  farther  of 
hir  pleasur  in  the  chalmer.  The  Laird  of  Dun  taryed,  and 
Lord  Joline  of  Coldinghame  cam  into  the  cabinet,  and  so  thei 
boyth  remaned  with  hyr  neyr  the  space  of  ane  houre.  The 
said  Johne  stood  in  the  chalmer,  as  one  whom  men  had  never 
sein,  (so  war  all  effrayed,)  except  that  the  Lord  Ochiltrie  bayre 
him  companye :  and  thairfoir  began  he  to  forge  talking  of  the 
ladyes  who  war  thair  sitting  in  all  thair  gorgiouse  apparell ; 
whiche  espyed,  he  mearelie  said,  "  0  fayre  Ladyes,  how  pleas-  ^° 
ing  war  this  lyeff  of  youris,  yf  it  should  ever  abyd,  and  then  ^l 
in  the  end  that  we  myght  passe  to  heavin  with  all  this  ^^ 
gay  gear.  But  fye  upoun  that  knave  Death,  that  will  come 
whitther  we  will  or  not !  And  when  he  lies  laid  on  his  areist, 
the  foull  wornies  wilbe  busye  with  this  flesche,  be  it  never  so 
fayr  and  so  tender ;  and  the  seally  sowll,  I  fear,  shalbe  so 
feable,  that  it  can  neather  cary  with  it  gold,  garnassing,  tar- 
gatting,  pearle,  nor  pretious  stanes."  And  by  suche  nieanes 
procured  he  the  cumpany  of  women ;  and  so  past  the  tyme  till 
that  the  Laird  of  Dun  willed  him  to  departe  to  his  house 
quhill  new  advertisement.  The  Queue  wold  have  had  the 
censement  of  the  Lordis  of  Articles,  yf  that  such  manor  of 
speaking  deserved  not  punishement ;  but  sche  was  consailled 
to  desist :  and  so  that  storm  quiettit  in  ajipearance,  but  never 
in  the  liearte. 


SASCTAN- 
DKOIS  SETT 
ATLIBEKTIE. 


390  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

Scliort  after  tlie  Parliament,  Letliiugton  returned  frome  liis 
negotiatioun  in  England  i  and  France.  God,  in  the  Februare 
befoir,  bad  strycken  tbat  bloody  tyrane  tbe  Duke  of  Gueise,^ 
wbicli  somwbat  brak  the  fard  of  our  Queue  for  a  seassone. 
But  sehort  after  the  returnyng  of  Lethington,  pryde  and 
cHOPPEOF  malice  begane  to  schaw  thame  selfis  agane.  Sche  sett  at 
libertie  the  Bischope  of  Sanctandrois,  and  the  rest  of  the 
Papistes  that  befoir  war  put  in  preasone  for  violating  of  the 
lawis.  Lethingtoun,  at  his  returnyng,  shew  him  self  nott  a 
litill  offended,  that  any  bniit  should  have  rissen  of  the  Quenis 
mariage  with  the  King  of  Spane  ;  for  he  took  upoun  him  that 
guche  thing  never  entered  in  hir  hearte :  but  how  trew  that 
was  we  shall  after  hear.  The  end  of  all  his  acquittance  and 
complaynt  was  to  discreditt  Johne  Knox,  who  had  affirmed, 
that  such  ane  mariage  was  boyth  proponit,  and,  upoun  tlie 
parte  of  our  Queue,  by  the  Cardinall  accepted.^  Lethingtoun, 
in  his  absence,  had  run  intill  ane  verray  evill  bruite  among  the 
Nobilitie  for  too  muche  sei-ving  the  Quenis  affectionis  against 
the  Commounwealth;  and  thairfoir  had  he,  as  one  that  lacketh 
no  worldly  wisdome,  maid  provisioun  boyth  in  England  and  in 
Scotland :  For  in  England  he  travailled  for  the  freedome  of 
the  Erie  Bothwell,  and  by  that  meane  obteaned  promesse  of 
his  favour.  He  had  thair  also  tacken  ordour  for  the  hame- 
cuming  of  the  Erie  of  Levenox,  as  we  shall  after  hear.  In 
Scotland  he  joyned  with  the  Erie  of  Atlioll:  liim  he  pro- 
moted, and  sett  fordwart  in  Courte ;  and  so  began  the  Erie  of 

1  Lethington  returned  from  England  city  of  Orleans,  Avbich  was  defended  by 

towards  the  end  of  June.     Keith  says,  the  Protestants.  In  the  following  month, 

"  The  Secretary  was  not  in  Council  on  the  Grand  Prior,   (see  page  208,   note 

the  18th  of  June,  but  he  was  present  7,)  another  of  the  Queen's  imcles,  was 

next  Council-daj-,  viz.  8th  July."  slain  at  the  battle  of  Dreux. 

"  Francis  de  Lorraine  succeeded  his  ^  The  Cardinal  de  Lorraine,  in  August 
father  as  Duke  de  Guise,  in  1550.  He  1563,  had  actually  proposed  the  Arch- 
died  24th  February  1562-3,  having  been  duke  Charles  of  Austria  to  Queen  Mary 
assassinated  by  one  of  his  own  gentle-  for  a  husband ;  but  she  declined  such 
men,  named  Poltrot,  while  besieging  tlic  an  overture. 


ir,63.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  391 

Mun-ay  to  be  defaced.     And  yitt  to  the  said  Erie,  Lethingtoun 
at  all  tymes  scliew  a  fayre  countenance. 

The  rest  of  that  Sommer  the  Quene  spent  in  hir  progTesse 
throught  the  West  countrey,  whair  in  all  tonnes  and  gentil- 
mennes  places  she  had  her  Messe.i  Wliich  cuming  to  the  earis 
of  JohneKnox,  he  began  that  forme  of  prayer  which  ordinarlie 
he  sayeth  after  thankis-giving  at  his  table :  "1.  Deliver  us,  0 
Lord,  from  the  boundage  of  Idolatrie.  2.  Preserve  and  keap  us 
from  the  tyranny  of  strangearis.  S.  Continew  us  in  quyetnesse 
and  concord  amangis  our  selfis,  yf  thy  good  pleasur  be,  0  Lord, 
for  a  seassone,"'  &c.  Whille  that  diverse  of  the  familiaris  of  the 
said  Johne  asked  of  him  why  he  prayed  for  quyetnesse  to  con- 
tinew for  a  seassone,  and  nott  rather  absolutlie  that  we  should 
continew  in  quyetness?  His  answer  was,  "That  he  durst  nott  ^"^^J^^^j^ 
pray  but  in  fayth  ;  and  faith  in  Goddis  w^ord  assured  him,  that  towarpis 
constant  quietness  could  nott  continew  in  that  Realme  whair  "'^^^^^^"* 
Idolatrie  had  bene  suppressed,  and  then  was  permitted  to  be 
erected  agane." 

From  the  West  countrey,  the  Quene  past  in  Ergyll^  to  the 
hunting,  and  after  returned  to  Striveling.  The  Erie  of  Mur- 
ray, the  Lord  Robert  of  Halyrudhouse,^  and  Lord  Johne  of 
Coldinghame,  past  to  the  Northland.  Justice  Courtis  war 
balden ;  thevis  and  murtheraris  war  punished ;  twa  witches 
war  burnt,  the  eldest  was  so  blynded  with  the  Devill,  that  sche 
affirmed,  "  That  na  Judge  had  power  ower  hir." 

'  Knox,  in  a  letter  to  Cecil  on  the  6th  Parliament  now  ended,  hath  made  her 

October  1563,  (quoted  by  Mr.  Tytler,)  Highland  apparel  for  her  journey  into 

expresses  this  same  feeling  in  regard  to  Argile."     The  absence  of  the  English 

the  Queen's  progress,  when  he   says,  ambassador  from  Scotland  during  the 

"  the   carrying  of  the  Mass   through  next  thi-ee  months,  has  deprived  us  of 

those  quarters  wliich  longest  had  been  much  minute  information.     Keith  states 

best  reformed,  had  dejected  the  hearts  that  the  Queen  "  sat  in  Council  at  Glas- 

of  many,  and  caused  him  to  disclose  the  gow  on  the  8th  of  July,  after  which  day 

plainness  of  a  troubled  heart."     (Hist.  both  she  and  the  Earl  of  Argyle  were 

vol.  vi.  p.  286.)  not  in  CoimcU  imtil  the  19th  of  August 

*  Randolph,  on  tlie  13th  .Time  1563,  at  Dumfries." 

informs   Cecil   that   "The   Queen,    tlic  '  ggeyQii  p.458;  vol.  ii.  pp.  271,  321. 


THE  LAST 
COMMENDA 
TIOUN  OF 
LORD  JOHN 
TO  THE 


392  THE  HISTORY  OF  ,         Book  IV. 

That  same  tjme  Lord  Johne  of  Coldinghame^  departed  tliis 
lyfe  in  Innerness.  It  was  affimied,  that  he  commanded  suche 
.  as  war  besyd  him  to  saj  unto  the  Quene,  "  That  onless  she 
E  left  hir  idolatrie,  that  God  wold  nott  fail  to  plague  hir.  He 
asked  God  mercy,  that  he  had  so  far  home  with  hir  in  hir 
impietie,  and  had  manteaned  hir  in  the  same  :  ^  And  that  no 
one  thing  did  him  more  regreat  then  that  he  had  flattered, 
fostered,  and  menteyned  hir  in  hir  wickednes  against  God  and 
his  servandis/'  And  in  verie  deid  great  cause  had  he  to  have 
lamented  his  wickednes  ;  for  besydes  all  his  other  infimiities, 
in  the  end,  he,  for  the  Quenis  plesour,  became  enemie  to 
verteu  and  all  verteous  men,  and  a  patrone  to  impietie  to  the 
uttermost  of  his  power :  yea,  his  vennome  was  so  kendled 
against  God  and  his  word,  that  in  his  rage  he  bursted  furth 
thir  wordis :  "  Or  I  see  the  Quenis  Majestie  sa  trubled  with 
the  railing  of  thir  knaves,  I  shall  have  the  best  of  thame  sticked 
in  the  pulpett/'  Wliat  farther  villanie  came  fourth  of  baith 
their  stinking  throttes  and  mouthes,  modestie  will  not  suffer 
us  to  wiyte ;  wherof,  yf  he  had  grace  to  unfeyiiedlie  repent, 
it  is  no  small  document  to  Godis  mercyes.  But  howsoever  God 
wrought  with  him,  the  Quene  regarded  his  wordis  as  wynd,  or 
ellis  thocht  thame  to  have  been  forged  be  otheris,  and  not  to 
have  proceaded  from  him  self ;  and  afiirmed  plainlie,  that  they 
wer  devysed  be  the  Laird  of  Pettarro  and  Mr.  Johne  "Wode, 

1  Lord  Jolm  Stewart,  Commendator  graph  is  added  in  the  MS.  1566,  upon  a 

of  Coldingham  :    see  page  320,  note  5.  separate  slip  of  paper,  written  in  a  hand 

By  his   marriage  with   the  sister  and  very  like  Knox's   own;    and  there  is 

sole  heir   of  James   Hepbui-n  Earl   of  written  as  a  marginal  dii-ection  to  his 

Bothwell,  his  family  inherited  a  rever-  amanuensis,  "  Tak  in  this  that  is  sewed 

sion   of   that  lordshijj;    and   his   son,  in  this  j^lace  quhar   it  is  scraped  out." 

Francis  Stewart,  in  1587,  obtained  the  The  words  that  are  so  scored  through 

dignity  of  Earl  of  Cotliwell.  to  be  deleted,  are  :  "When  such  thingis 

-    In    the   MS.    1566,   these    words,  war  schawin  iinto  the  Quene,  thei  war 

"  quhairof  more  is  spoken  after,"  form  but  mocked  at,  sche  affirmyng  that  thei 

part  of  this  note,  but  are  deleted,  pro-  war  devised  by  Maister  Johne  Woode 

bably  when  the  additional  passage  was  and  by  the  Laird  of  PetUirrow ;   as  we 

inserted  :  see  next  note.  sail  after  more  planelie  heare."     See 

'  The  remaining  portion  of  this  para-  fac-similc. 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  393 

whome  sclie  both  hated,  because  they  flattered  hir  not  in  hir 
danceing-  and  other  doinges.i  One  thing-  in  plane  wordis  she 
spak,  "  That  God  tiiik  alwyse  from  hir  thay  persounes  in 
whome  sche  had  greatest  pleasour :"  and  that  she  repented  ; 
but  of  farther  wickednes  no  mentioun. 

Wliill  the  Queue  lay  at  Striveling,  with  hir  idolatrie  in  hir 
chapell,  in  the  Palice  of  Halyrudliouse  war  left  certane  donty- 
bouris,  and  otheris  of  the  Frenche  menzie,  who  raised  up  thair 
Messe  more  publictlye  then  they  had  done  at  any  tyme  before. 
For  upon  those  same  Sundayes  that  the  Church  of  Edinburgh 
had  the  ministration  of  the  Lordis  Table,  the  Papistis  in 
great  number  resorted  to  the  Abbay,  to  thair  abomination. 
Which  understand,  dyverse  of  the  brethren,  being  sore  offend- 
ed, consulted  how  to  redress  that  inormitie  ;  and  so  war  ap- 
poynted  certane  of  the  most  zelous,  and  most  uj)iyght  in  the 
religion,  to  await  upon  the  Abbay,  that  thai  myght  note  such 
persones  as  resorted  to  the  Messe.  And  perceaving  a  great 
number  to  enter  into  the  chapell,  some  of  the  brethren  burst 
also  in  ;  whereat  the  Preist  and  the  Frenche  dames  being 
affrayed,  made  the  schout  to  be  sent  to  the  town  ;  and  Madame 
Raylie,^  maistres  to  the  Quenis  dontiboures,  (for  maides  that 
Court  could  not  then  beare,)  posted  on  with  all  diligence  to 
the  ComptroUar,  the  Laird  of  Pettarro,  who  then  was  in  Sanct 
Gelis  Kirk  at  the  sermon  ;  and  cryed  for  his  assistance,  to  save 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  uther  tMngs."  1574,   as  the   Queen  informs    Beaton, 

-  In  MS.   G,    "  Madame   Baylie." —  Archbishop  of  Glasgow,  in  a  letter  dated 

This  Madame    Ray  lie   was  the  wife  of  Sheffield,  4th  September,   (ib.  vol.  iv.  p. 

Mons.  RauUet  or  Roullet,  the  Queen's  216.)     The  Earl  of  Shrewsbury   took 

private    Secretary.      The    tlisturbance  this  occasion  to  search  his  coifers  in  the 

which  is  here  alluded  to,  happened  on  hope  of  discovering  letters  or  papers 

Sunday  the  15th  of  August  1563.    Roul-  that  might  implicate  his  Royal  Mistress, 

let  is  frequently  mentioned   in   Queen  the  unfortmiate  Queen  of  Scots.     (Chal- 

Mary's  correspondence.     He  was  sent  mers's  Life,  &c.,  vol.  ii.  p.  68.)    In  1586, 

to  Flanders  with  letters  of  credit  from  in  the  list  of  the  Queen's  attendants, 

the  Queen,  addressed  to  the  Cardinal  de  one  of  the  "  gentlewomen  of  her  cham- 

Granville,  in  January  1564-5.     (Laba-  ber,"  was  Renee  Rallay  alias  Beaure- 

noflF,  Recueil,  &c.,  vol.  i.  pp.  197-206,  gard.     (Labanoff,  Recueil,  &c.,  vol.  vii. 

.vol.  vii.  p.  291.)     He  died  30th  August  p.  252.) 


394  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

liir  lyfe,  and  to  saif  tlie  Quenis  Palice :  Who,  with  greattar 
haist  then  nead  requyred,  obeyed  hir  desyre,  and  tuik  with 
him  the  Provest,  the  Baillies,  and  a  great  part  of  the  faitlifull. 
But  when  they  came  where  the  feare  was  bruted  to  have  bene, 
they  fand  all  tliingis  quyet,  except  the  tumult  they  broght 
with  thame  selves,  and  peaceable  men  luiking  to  the  Paj)istis, 
and  forbidding  thame  to  transgress  the  lawis.  Trew  it  is,  a 
zelous  brother,  named  Patrick  Cranstoun,  past  into  the  chapell, 
and  fynding  the  altar  covered,  and  the  Preast  reddye  to  go  to 
that  abomination,  said,  "  The  Quenis  Majestie  is  not  heir : 
how  dar  thou  then  be  so  malepart,  as  opinlie  to  do  against  the 
law  ?"  No  farther  was  done  nor  said,  and  yit  the  bruit  heirof 
was  posted  to  the  Queue,  (with  such  infonnation  as  the  Pa- 
pistis  could  give  ;  which  fand  such  credit,  as  thair  heartis  could 
have  wished  for,)  which  was  so  haynous  a  cryme  in  hir  eyes, 
that  satisfactioun  for  that  syn  was  there  none  without  bloode. 
And  therfore,  without  delay  was  summoned  Andro  Armstrangi 
and  Patrik  Cranstoun,  to  fynd  suyrtie  to  undirlie  the  law,  for 
forethought,  fellonie,  hamesukkin,  violent  invation  of  the 
Quenis  Palice,  and  for  spoliation  of  the  same. 

These  letteris  divulged,^  and  the  extremitie  feared.  Brethren 
(the  few  that  war  within  the  town)  consulted  upon  the  next 
remedie ;  and  in  the  end  concluded,  that  Johne.  Knox  (to 
whom  the  charge  was  geven  to  male  advertismentis  whenso- 
ever daunger  sould  aj)pear)  should  wiyte  to  the  Brethren  in 
all  quarteris,  geving  information  as  the  matter  stoode,  and  re- 

1   Andrew    Ai-mstrong    and    George  was  commanded  to  appear.     (Pitcairn's 

Rynd,  bui-gesses  of  Edinburgh,  en  the  Crimmal  Trials,  vol.  i.  p.  *434.)     No 

1st  October,  found  surety  "  to  undei-ly  account  of  the  subsequent  proceedings 

the  law,"   on  the  24th  of  that  month,  has  been  preserved.     At  the  same  time 

for  breaking  the  Queen's  proclamation.  Christian  Pinkerton,  spouse  of  James 

"  in  carrying  simdry  pistoUcts,   and  Rogers,  and  twenty-one  other  persons, 

for  convocation  of  the  lieges  at  the  Pa-  of  whom  eight  were  females,  were  im- 

lace  of  Ilolyi-ood,  and  invading  sundry  pannclled  for  being  present  at  the  cele- 

of  the  Queen's  domestick  servants  thei-e-  bration  of  Mass,  in  the  Chapel  of  Holy- 

in."     The  case  was   postponed   to  the  rood,  on  the  8th  August, 
loth  November,  when  Patrick  Cranston  ^  Jq  ^jv^   1513(5^  «  devulgat." 


1;5G3.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  395 

quyring  tliair  assistance :   wliicli  lie  did  in  tennoui-l    as  heir 
followes : — 


THE  SUPKK- 
aCEIPTIOUN. 


"  Wheresoever  tiuo  or  thre  are  gathered  together  in  my 
name,  thare  am  I  in  the  middest  of  thame. 

"  It  is  not  unknawen  unto  yow,  deare  Brethren,  what  con- 
forte  and  tranqiiillitie  Grod  gave  unto  us,  in  tjmes  most  dan- 
gerous, by  our  Christian  assemblies,  and  godly  conferences,  as 
oft  as  any  danger  appeared  to  any  member  or  members  of 
oure  bodye ;  and  how  that  since  we  have  neglected,  or  at 
the  least  not  frequented  our  conventionis  and  assemblies,  the 
adversaries  of  Christ  Jesus  his  holie  Evangill  have  interj)rysed, 
and  boldened  thame  selves  publictlie  and  secretlie,  to  do  many 
thingis  odious  in  Goddis  presence,  and  maist  hurtful!  to  the 
libertie  of  trew  religion,  now  of  Goddis  great  favour  granted 
unto  us.  The  holie  Sacramentis  are  abused  be  profane  Pa- 
pistis.  Messes  have  bein  (and  yit  are)  opinlie  said  and  man- 
teyned.  The  bloode  of  some  of  our  dearest  ministeris  has  ^^^^ 
bein  shed,  without  fear  of  punishment  or  correction  craved 
be  us.  And  now  last,  are  two  of  our  dear  brethren,  Patrik  m?cAPTANE 
Cranstoun  and  Andro  Armstrang,  summoned  to  underly  the  law, 
in  the  town  of  Edinburgh,  the  24th  of  this  instant  October, 
'  For  forethought  fellonie,  pretended  murther,  and  for  invading 
the  Quenis  Majesties  Palice  of  Halyrudhouse,  with  unlauch- 
full  convocatioun,  &c.'    This  terrible  summonds  is  direct  against 

1  In  the  MS.  1566,  the  transcriber  has  The  name  of  Captain  Robert  Lauder 

written  thirteen  lines  of  the  paragraph  occurs  in  the  Treasurer's  Accounts  for 

at  page  397,  beginning,  "  The  Brethren  1561,  and  at  other  times.     Captain  Eo- 

advertissed,"   &c.,    preceded   with    the  bert  Lauder  had  a  charter  of  the  lands 

words,  "  as  after  we  shall  heare."    Hav-  of    Straegthrow,   in   Forfarshire,    20th 

iug  obtained  a  copy  of  his  OAvn  letter,  all  July  1566.    Parliament,  in  1578,  passed 

this  is  deleted;  the  words  "  as  heir  fol-  an  Act  of  Pacification  in  his  fa  vom-.   (vol. 

lowes"  are  added,  and  the  paragraph  it-  iii.  p.  111.)     In  March  1566-7,  we  find 

selfrepeated,after  the  letter:  see  p.  397.  the  names  of  "  Capitanes  Robert  and 

-  This  marginal  note  is   omitted   in  Hew  Lauderis,  Alexander  Stewart,  and 

MS.  G ;  but  it  occurs  in  MS.  L  4 ;  and  James  Culaue."    (This  Stewart  was  pro- 

in  jMS.  L  o,  it  forms  part  of  the  text.—  bably  the  person  mentioned  at  p.  354.) 


ROBERT 

NT  STRIK- 

KKX  IN  THE 

HEAD  WITH 


396  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

owre  Bretliren,  because  that  tliey  with  two  or  thre  more,  passed 
to  the  Abbey  upon  Sunday,  tlie  15th  of  August,  to  behald  and 
note  what  persones  repared  to  the  Messe  ;  and  that  because  that 
the  Sunday  before,  (the  Quenis  Grace  being  absent,)  there 
resorted  to  that  idole  a  rascall  multitude,  having  opinlie  the 
least  devillissh  ceremonie  (yea  even  the  conjuring  of  thair 
accurssed  watter)  that  ever  they  had  in  the  tyme  off  greatest 
blyndnes.  Becaus,  (I  say,)  our  said  Brethren  passed,  and  that 
in  maist  quyet  maner,  to  note  sick  abusearis,  thir  fearfull  sum- 
mondis  ar  directed  against  thame,  to  mak  (no  doubt)  prepa- 
ration upon  a  few,  that  a  door  may  be  opened  to  execute 
creweltie  upon  a  greattar  multitude.  And  yf  so  it  come  to 
j)ass,  God,  no  doubt,  has  justlie  recompanced  oure  formare 
negligence  and  ingratitude,  towardis  hym  and  his  benefittis 
receaved  in  oure  awin  bosoms.  God  gave  to  us  a  most  notable 
victorie,  of  his  and  our  ennemies :  he  brak  thair  strength, 
confounded  thair  counsailles :  he  sett  us  at  fredome,  and 
purged  this  Bealme  (for  the  maist  part)  of  oppin  idolatrye ; 
to  the  end,  that  we,  ever  myndfull  of  so  wounderous  a  delive- 
rance, should  have  keapt  this  Realme  clean  from  sick  vyle 
filthiness,  and  dampnable  idolatrie.  But  we,  alace !  preferring 
the  pleasour  of  flesche  [and  blude,]  to  the  pleasour  and  com- 
mandement  of  our  God,  have  suffered  that  idoll,  the  Messe,  to 
be  erected  agane,  and  therfore  justlie  sufferis  he  us  now  to 
fall  in  that  danger  that  to  luke  to  ane  idolatour,  going  to  his 
idolatrie,  salbe  repute  a  cryme  lityll  inferiour  to  treasone. 
God  grant  that  we  fall  not  farther.  And  now  I,  Avliom  God 
has  of  his  mercye  made  one  amangis  many  to  travell  in  set- 
ting fordward  of  his  trew  religion  Avithin  this  Realme,  seing 
the  same  in  danger  of  ruin,  can  not  but  of  conscience  crave 
of  you,  my  Brethren,  of  all  estaitis,  that  have  professed  the 
treuth,  your  presence,  comfort,  and  assistance,  at  the  said  day, 
in  the  Town  of  Edinburgh,  even  as  that  ye  tender  the  ad- 
vancement of  Goddis  glorie,  the  saiftie  of  your  brethren,  and 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  397 

your  aAvin  assurance,  togedder  with  the  preservatioun  of  the 
Kirk  in  thir  appearing  daungers.  It  may  be,  perchance,  that 
persuasions  be  made  in  the  contrarie,  and  that  ye  may  be  in- 
formed, that  either  your  asserablie  is  not  necesscr,  or  ellis  that 
it  will  offend  the  uppar  poweris  :  But  my  gude  hope  is,  that 
nether  flatterie  nor  feare  sail  mak  you  sa  far  to  declyne  fra 
Christ  Jesus,  as  that,  against  your  publict  promise  and  so- 
lempned  band,  ye  Avill  leave  your  brethren  in  sa  just  a  cause. 
And  albeit  there  ware  no  great  daunger,  yet  cannot  oure 
assemblie  be  unproffitable ;  for  many  thingis  requyre  consul- 
tation, quhilkis  can  not  be  had,  onles  the  wysest  and  godliest 
convein.  And  thus,  doubting  nothing  of  the  assistance  of 
owre  God,  yf  that  we  uniformlie  seik  his  glory,  I  cease  far- 
ther to  trouble  you,  committing  you  heartlie  to  the  protection 
of  the  Eternall. 

"  JoHNE  Knox. 
"  Fra  Edinburgh,  the  8th  of  October  1563." 

The  Brethren,  advertissed  be  this  bill,  prepaired  thameselves, 
so  many  as  war  thocht  expedient  for  everie  town  and  pro- 
vince, to  keap  the  day  appoynted.  But  by  the  meanis  of  false 
brethren,  the  letter  came  to  the  liandis  of  the  Queue ;  and 
the  maner  was  this  :    It  was  read  in  the  town  of  Ayre,  whare  the  mini- 

•^         '  STER  OF 

wes  present  Robert  Cunyghame,  minister  of  Faillfurde,!  who  „;\hopkof 
then  was  halden  an  earnest  professor  of  the  Evangell ;  who  ''°''*'^" 
(be  what  meanes  we  knaw  not)  gat  the  said  letter,  and  send 

1  Failfuvd,  the  seat  of  a  convent  of  liam  Earl  of  Glencaii-n,  at  the  age  of 

Red  Friars,  in  the  parish  of  Torbolton,  twenty-two,  was   appointed   Minister; 

Ayrshire,  was  founded  in  1252.     "  The  and  he  sat  in  Parliament  among  the 

chief  who  ruled  this   convent,"    says  clergy  in  1546;  and  also  in  1560.    "  Wil- 

Chalmers,  "  was  styled  Minister.     The  liam  Wallace,  brother  to  John  Wallace 

iliJKi.sier  of  Failfurd  was  Provincial  of  of  Cragy,  had  a  letter  of  presentation  to 

the  Trinity  Order  in  Scotland.     From  the  benefice  of  the  ministrie  of  Failfurde, 

being  the  head  of  the  Order,  he  appears  vacant  be   deceis  of  umquhile  Robert 

to  have  had  a  seat  in  Parliament."   (Co/-  Cunnynghame,   last  minister  thairof,"   . 

ledonia,  vol.  iii.  p.  492.)     In  1540,  Ro-  dated   18th  April  1576.     (Register  of 

bert  Cunningham,  a  natural  son  of  Wil-  Signatures.) 


398 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


it  with  his  token  to  Maister  Hendrie  Sinkclare,  then  President 
of  the  Seat  and  College  of  Justice,  and  styled  Byshope  of 
Ross,  ane  perfyct  hypocrite,  and  ane  conjured  ennemye  to 
Christ  Jesus,!  whome  God  after  straik  according  to  his  de- 
servingis.  The  said  Mr.  Hendrie  being  ennemie  to  all  that 
unfeynedlie  professed  the  Lord  Jesus,  hut  cheiflie  to  Johne 
Knox,  for  the  lihertie  of  his  toung  ;  for  he  had  affirmed,  as  ever 
still  he  doth  affirme,  that  a  Bischope  that  receaves  proffit,  and 
feidis  not  the  flock,  even  be  his  awin  labouris,  is  boitli  a  theif 
and  a  murderare  :  The  said  Mr.  Hendrie,  we  say,  thinking 
him  self  happie  that  had  found  so  gude  occasion  to  trouble 
him,  whose  life  he  hated,  posted  the  said  letter,  with  his  coun- 
saill  to  the  Queue,  who  then  lay  in  Striveling.2 

The  letter  being  read,  it  was  concluded  be  the  Counsale  of 


'  Mr.  Henry  Sinclair,  (see  vol.  i.  p. 
274,)  was  successively  Rector  of  Glas- 
gow and  a  Lord  of  Session  in  1537, 
Abbot  of  Kilwynning  in  1541,  Dean  of 
Glasgow  in  1550,  and  President  of  the 
Court  of  Session  in  1559.  The  Queen 
Regent,  on  the  27th  March  1560,  had 
written  in  his  favour,  to  be  advanced  to 
the  See  of  Ross,  then  vacant  by  the 
death  of  David  Panter,  as  mentioned  by 
the  French  envoys  De  la  Brosse  and 
the  Bishop  of  Amiens,  in  their  letter  of 
that  date,  to  the  Cardinal  de  Lorraine, 
and  the  Duke  de  Guise: — "LaRoyne 
Douugere  vous  escript  pour  les  expe- 
ditions de  rEvesch6  de  Rosse  en  faveur 
du  Doyen  de  Glascou,  qui  est  President 
de  la  Session.  Son  age,  et  fort  bonne 
vye,  et  emynent  scauoir  le  recommen- 
dent  assez;  et  n'avons  voulu  faillir  a 
vous  en  porter  sa  tesmoignage,  et  vous 
dire  qu'il  est  bien  affection^  et  bien 
necessaire  parde9a.  L'Evesch^  est  en- 
cores entifer."  (Stevenson's  Illustra- 
tions, &c.  p.  80.) 

2  Calderwood  says,  that  Sinclair  "  was 
a  speciall  enemy  to  Mr.  Knox,  becaus 
he  still  affirmed,  that  a  Bishop  receiving 


profite,  and  not  feeding  the  flock  by  his 
owne  labours,  is  a  theefe  and  a  mur- 
therer."  (Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  233.)  Kncx 
employs  no  measured  terms  in  also 
speaking  of  his  brother  John  Sinclaii-, 
who  became  Bishop  of  Brechin,  and  his 
successor  as  President,  "  as  ane  perfyte 
hypocrite,"  (vol.  i.  pp.  265.)  Queen 
Mary,  on  the  20t.h  February  1563-4, 
applied  to  Queen  Elizabeth  for  a  safe 
conduct  "  unto  oiu'  traist  Counsalour. 
Henry  Bischop  of  Ross,  (quliom  we  half 
licent  to  pas  to  the  partes  of  France,  to 
seke  cure  and  remedie  of  certane  ma- 
ladyis  quhairwith  he  is  presentlie  dis- 
easit,")  &c.  (Labanofif,  Recueil  des 
Lettres,  &c.,  vol.  vii.  p.  293.)  On  the 
18th  September  1564,  the  Queen  applied 
for  a  safe  conduct  to  "  oure  well  belovit 
Clerk,  Maister  Johne  Sinclair,  Dene  of 
Restalrig,  being  in  the  partes  of  France, 
and  willing  to  returne  hamewart  in  this 
oure  Realme."  (lb.  vol.  i.  p.  227.)  In 
the  above  passage  Knox  evidently  al- 
ludes to  the  disease  of  which  the  Bishop 
of  Ross  died,  at  Paris,  on  the  2d  January 
1564-5.  (Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  pp. 
77,  79.) 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  899 

the  Cabinet,  that  is,  be  the  maist  Secreat  Counsale,  that  it 
imported  treason  :  wherof  tlie  Quene  was  not  a  little  rejoised, 
for  she  thoglit  anes  to  be  reveanged  of  that  hir  great  ennemie. 
It  was  concluded  that  the  Nobilitie  sould  be  written  for,  that 
the  condampnation  sould  have  the  greatter  authoritie.  The 
day  was  appointed  about  the  middest  of  December ;  which 
was  keapt  of  the  hoill  Counsale,  and  of  dyvers  utheris,  such 
as  the  Maister  of  Maxwell,  the  auld  Laird  of  Lethingtoun,  and 
the  said  President. 

In  the  meane  tyme,  the  Erie  of  Murray  returned  from  the 
North,  to  whom  the  Secretary  Lethingtoun  opened  the  matter 
as  best  pleased  him.     The  Master  of  Maxwell  l  gave  unto  the  the 

•1T1  -111  T1  n         1  n  •^'         •     •        MAISTER  OP 

said  Johne,  as  it  had  bene,  a  discharge  of  the  familiaritie  maxwelis 

PISCHARGE 

which  before  wes  great  betwix  tliame,  onles  that  he  wald  sa-  ^o  johne 

°  '  KNOX. 

tisfie  the  Quene  at  hir  awin  syglit. 

The  answer 2  [of  Johne  Knox]  was,  "  He  knew  no  offence  ekasson- 
done  be  him  to  the  Quenis  Majestic,  and    therfoir   he   wist  tv\-ix  te 

,  .  maister  OF 

n>:)clit  quhat  satisfactioun  to  mak.  maxwell 

"  No  offence  !"  said  the  uther.     "  Half  ye  not  writtin  let-  kn 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  the  Maister  of  Maxwell,  bis  life,  he  became  one  of  the  most  con- 

efter  maid  Loi-cl  Hemes."    In  a  previous  stant  and  zealous  adherents  of  Queen 

note,  (vol.  i.  p.  319,)  it  will  be  seen  that  Mary. 

Sir  John  Maxwell,  whose  name  occurs  ^  The  portion  of  the  MS.  which  bears 
repeatedly  in  Knox,  married  the  eldest  internal  evidence  of  having  been  tran- 
daughter  and  co-heii-ess  ofLordHerries  scribed  in  1-566,  terminates  with  the 
of  Terreglis.  Sometimes  he  is  styled  commencement  of  this  paragraph.  In 
the  Master  of  Maxwell,  as  presumptive  what  follows,  having  the  marginal  note 
heii"  of  the  title.  He  was  much  em-  3  as  a  kind  of  title  at  the  head  of  the 
ployed  in  public  affairs,  and  was  long  page,  and  extending  in  all  to  twenty- 
Warden  of  the  West  Marches.  Having  nine Jeaves,  the  transcription  could  not 
joined  himself  with  the  Lords  of  the  Con-  have  been  earlier  than  December  1.571, 
gregation,  on  the  2d  February  1559-60,  (yet  during  Knox's  Ufe.)  This  conclud- 
he  was  one  of  the  ambassadors  sent  by  ing  portion  is  hastily  written,  more  like 
them  to  England.  He  was  generally  a  scroll  copy  from  dictation,  than  an 
known  as  Sir  John  Maxwell  of  Ter-  acciu-atetransci'ipt — many  of  the  words 
rcglis ;  and  this  barony,  in  1566,  was  are  omitted  or  inaccurately  written, 
erected  into  a  Lordship,  and  Sir  John  Various  minute  corrections,  chiefly  in 
took  his  seat  in  the  Parliament  1567,  as  orthography,  have  therefore  been  adopt- 
Lord  Herries.     In  the  latter  period  of  ed  fi-om  MS.  G.     It  may  further  be  add- 


AND  JOHNE 

ox.  3 


400  THE  HISTORY  OP  Book  IV. 

teris  desyring  the  Bretlierin  from  all  pairts  to  convene  to 
Andro  Armstrang  and  Patrik  Cranstounis  day  ? " 

"  Tliat  I  grant,"  said  the  iither ;  "  but  thairin  I  acknaw- 
ledge  no  offence  [done  be  me." 

"  No  offence,"]  3  said  he,  "  to  convocat  the  Quenis  liegis  V 

"  Not  for  sua  just  ane  cause,"  said  the  uther ;  "  for  grytter 
thingis  wer  reput  no  offence  within  thir  two  yeiris." 

"  The  time,"  said  he,  "  is  now  utlier  ;  for  than  our  Sove- 
rane  wes  absent,  and  now  sche  is  present." 

"  It  is  neathcr  the  absence  nor  the  presence  of  the  Queue," 
said  he,  "  that  reulis  my  conscience,  but  God  speiking  plainlie 
in  his  word ;  quhat  was  lauchfull  to  me  last  yeir,  is  yit  lauch- 
fuU,  becaus  my  God  is  unchangeable." 

"  Weill,"  said  the  Maister,  "  I  haif  gevin  you  my  counsel], 
do  as  ye  list  ;  but  I  think  ye  sail  repent  it,  gif  yc  bow  not 
unto  the  Queue." 

"  I  understand  not,"  said  he,  "  Maister,  quhat  ye  mene.  I 
nevir  maid  my  self  ane  adversarie  pairtie  unto  the  Quenis 
Majestie,  except  in  to  the  heid  of  religioun,  and  thairintill  1 
think  ye  will  nocht  desyre  me  to  bow." 

"  Weill,"  said  he,  "  ye  are  wise  eneuch  ;  but  ye  will  find 
that  men  will  nocht  beir  with  you  in  times  to  cum,  as  thay 
haif  done  in  tymes  byjiast." 

"  Gif  God  stand  my  freind,"  said  the  uther,  "  as  I  am  as- 
surit  he  of  his  mercie  will,  so  lang  as  I  dej)end  upon  his  pro- 
meise,  and  prefer  his  glorie  to  my  life  and  warldlie  proffeit,  I 
littill  regaird  how  men  behave  tliame  selffis  towardis  me ; 
nether  yit  knaw  I  qidiairin  till  ony  man  lies  borne  with  me  in 
times  past,  unles  it  be,  that  of  my  mouth  thay  haif  heard  the 
word  of  God,  quliilk  in  times  to  cum,  gif  thay  refuise,  my  hairt 

ed,  that  from  tlie  irregular  manner  of  cipliercd;  but  the  Glasgow  MS.  fortu- 

the  writing,  the  marginal  notes  have  natelyscrves  to  supply  such  deficiencies, 

suffered  so  much  in  the  binder's  hands,  ^  The  words  inclosed  witliin  brackets 

that  some  of  them  can  scarcely  be  de-  arc  supplied  from  MS.  G. 


ir^ra.  THE  reformation  in  Scotland.  401 

wilbe  persit,  and  for  ane  soasone  will  lament  ;  but  the  incom- 
moditie  wilbe  thair  awnc." 

And  efter  thir  wordis,  quliairinto  the  Laird  of  Lochinvar^ 
wes  witness,  thai  departit.  But  unto  this  day,  the  17th  of  De- 
cember 1571,2  thay  met  nocht  in  sick  familiaritie  as  thay  had 
befoir. 

Tlie  bruit  of  the  accusatioun  of  Jolme  Knox  being-  divulged, 
Mr.  Johne  Spens  of  Condie,  Advocat,^  a  man  of  gentill  nature, 
and  ane  that  professit  the  doctrine  of  the  Evangell,  came,  as  it 
wer,  in  secreit  to  Johne  Knox,  to  inquyre  the  cause  of  that 
grit  bruit.  To  quhom  the  said  Johne  wes  plane  in  all  thingis, 
and  schew  unto  him  the  dowbill  of  the  letter.  Quhilk  heard 
and  consydderit,  he  said,  "  I  thank  my  God,  I  came  to  you 
with  ane  feirfull  and  sorrowfull  hairt,  feiring  that  ye  had  done 
sick  ane  cryrae  as  lawis  mycht  haif  punischit,  quhilk  wald  haif 
bene  na  small  trubill  to  the  hairtis  of  all  sik  as  lies  ressavit 
the  worde  of  life  quhilk  ye  haif  preichit ;  but  I  depairt 
gritlie  rejosit,  alsweill  becaus  I  persaif  your  awin  confort,  evin 
in  the  myddis  of  your  trubillis,  as  that  I  cleirly  understand, 
that  ye  haif  committit  no  sik  cryme  as  ye  ar  burdenit  with  : 
Ye  wilbe  accusit,  (said  he,)  but  God  will  assist  you."  And 
sua  he  departit. 

The  Erie  of  Murray  and  the  Secretarie  send  for  the  said  befoir 

•^  _  _  THAY  DIS. 

Johne  to  the  Clerk  of  Registeris  house,  and  began  to  lament  ^^^'^^^f^^  ^^ 

that   he   had   so   heighlie   offendit  the  Quenis  Majestic,  the  ",0*^,^.^^'^ 

quhilk  thai  feirit  sould  cum  to  ane  grit  inconvenient  to  him 

self,  gif  he  wer  not  wyselie  forsene.     Thay  schew  quhat  paines 

and  travel!  thai  had  tackin  to  mittigat  hir  anger,  but  thai  ^."^ris*^'^''' 


*  Sir  John  Gordon  of  Lochinvar :  see  ^  Mr.  John  Spens  of  Condie  was  Queen's 
supra  p.  2G0,  note  27.  Advocate  from  1558,   and   has   several 

*  This  date  forming  part  of  the  text,  times  been  mentioned  by  ELnox  :  see  vol. 
proves  that  tlus  portion  of  the  MS.  i.  p.  419.  He  died  in  June  1573.  (Re- 
niust  have  been  transcribed  at  that  date:  gister  of  Confirmed  Testaments,  5th 
see  introductory  notice,  vol.  i.  p.  xxx.  March  1577-8.) 

VOL.  II.  2  C 


402  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

confes  his  offence,  and  put  him  in  hir  Grace's  will.  To  quhilk 
heidis  the  said  Johne  answerit  as  followis : — 

"  I  praise  my  God,  through  Jesus  Chryst,  I  haif  leirnit 
nocht  to  cry  conjuratioun  and  tressoun  at  everie  thing  that 
the  godles  multitude  dois  condempne,  neither  yit  to  feir  the 
thingis  that  thai  feir.  I  haif  the  testimonie  of  ane  gude  con- 
science, that  I  haif  gevin  no  occasioun  to  the  Quenis  Majestic 
to  be  oifendit  with  me ;  for  I  haif  done  na  thing  but  my 
dewtie,  and  so  quhatsoevir  sail  thairof  insew,  my  gude  lioupe 
is,  that  my  God  will  gif  me  patience  to  beir  it.  But  to  confes 
ane  offence  whair  my  conscience  witnesseth  thair  is  nane,  far 
beit  from  me." 

"  How  can  it  be  defendit  ?"  said  Lethingtoun :  "  Haif  ye 
not  maid  convocatioun  of  the  Quenis  leigis  ? " 

"  Gif  I  haif  nocht,"  said  he,  "  a  just  defence  for  my  fact,-^ 
lat  me  smart  for  it." 

"  Lat  us  heir,"  said  thai,  "  your  defensses  ;  for  we  wald  be 
glaid  that  ye  mycht  be  found  innocent," 

"  Nay,"  said  the  uther,  "  for  I  am  informit,  and  that  be  di- 
verse, and  evin  be  you,  my  Lord  Secreatarie,  that  I  am  all- 
reddie  condampnit,  and  my  cause  prejudged:  Thairfoir  I 
mycht  be  reputed  ane  fooll,  gif  I  wald  mak  you  previe  to  my 
defensses." 

At  thoise  wordis  thai  semeit  baith  offendit ;  and  so  the  Se- 
TVMETHAT  cretarie  departit.  But  the  said  Erie  remanit  still,  and  wald 
haif  interit  in  farder  discourse  of  the  estait  of  the  Court  with 
the  said  Johne,  quho  ansuerit,  "  My  Lorde,  I  understand  mair 
than  I  wald  of  the  effairis  of  the  Court ;  and  thairfoir  it  is 
nocht  ncidfull  that  your  Lordschip  trubill  you  with  the  re- 
compting  thairof.  Gif  ye  stand  in  gude  caise  I  am  content  ; 
and  gif  ye  do  not,  as  I  fear  you  do  nocht  allreddie,  or  ellis 
ye  sail  nocht  do  or  it  be  lang,  blame  nocht  me.  Ye  haif  the 
Counsalouris   quhome  ye  haif  chosin  ;    my   walk  judgement 


THE  ERLEOP 
MUERAY 
SPAK  TO 
THE  SAID 
J0UN2 
KFTER  THE 
PARLIA- 
MENT. 


1  In  MS.  1506,  «  my  fait."  *  In  MS.  G,  "  spack  to  .lohne  K 


nox. 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  403 

baitli  ye  and  tliay  dispyseit :  I  can  do  no  thing  but  beliald 
the  end,  quhilk,  I  pray  Grod,  be  other  than  my  trubilled  hairt 
feiretli." 

Within  four  days,  the  said  Johne  wes  callit  befoir  the  Queue  J^'™  knox 
and  Counsell  betwix  sax  and  sevin  houris  at  nycht  :2    The  seas-  Qpjfjj]^"^^^ 
soune  of  the  yeir  Aves  the  middes  of  December.     The  bruit  inYnno^' 
rysing-  in  the  toune,  that  Johne  Knox  wes  send  for  be  the  i-^^s.' 
Queue,  the  brethering  of  the  Kirk^  followit  in  such  noumer, 
that  the  inner  close  was  full,  and  all  the  stairs,  evin  to  the 
chalmer  dure  whair  the  Queue  and  Counsall  sat ;  quho  had 
bene  ressonyng  amangis  thame  selves  befoir,  but  had  nocht 
fullie  satisfeyit  the  Secretaris  mynd.     And  so  wes  the  Queue 
retyreit  to  hir  cabinet,   and  the  Lordis  wer  talkand  ilk  one 
with  uther,  as  occasioune  served.    Bot  upoun  the  entre  of  John 
Knox,  thay  wer  commandit  to  tak  thair  places,  and  so  thai 
did,  sytting  as  Counsalouris  one  aganis  ane  uther. 

The  Duke,  according  to  his  dignitie,  began  the  one  syde. 
Upone  the  uther  syde  sat  the  Erie  of  Argyle,  and  consequent- 
lie  followit  the  Erie  of  Murray,  the  Erie  of  Griencarne,  the  Erie 
of  Merchell,  the  Lord  Ruthven,  the  commoun  officeris,  Pettarro 
than  Controller,  the  Justice  Clark,  Mr.  John  Spens  of  Condie 
Advocat ;  and  diverse  utheris  stude  by.  Removeand  from  the 
tabill  sat  auld  Lethingtoun,  father  to  the  Secretour,  Mr.  Hen- 
rie  Synclare  then  Bischope  of  Rosse,  and  Mr.  James  M'Gill 
Clark  Register. 

Thingis  thus  put  in  ordour,  the  Queue  cam  furth,  and  with 
no  littill  warldlie  pomp,  wes  placeit  in  the  chyre,  haifing  twa 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  ill  December  1563."  sembly  made  by  his  letter  before,  to 

*  Knox  states  that  his  examination  be-  have  rescued  two  of  their  brethren,  (viz. 

fore  the  Privy  Council  was  the  middle  Armstrong  and  Cranston,)  from  course 

of  December.     Randolph,  in  one  of  his  of  lawe,  for  usinge  an  outrage  vipon  a 

dispatches  to  Cecil,  on  the  21stBecember,  Priest   saying  Masse    to    the   Queen's 

mentions  that  the  Lords  had  assembled  household  at  Halliruydhous."     (Keith's 

for  three  causes,  the  last  of  wluch  was,  Hist.,  vol.  ii.  p.  210.) 

"  To  take  order  with  Knox  and  his  fac-  ^  In  MS.  G,   "the   brethren  of  the 

tion,  who  mtended,  by  a  mutinous  as-  Toun." 


404  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

faithfull  supportls,  the  Maister  of  Maxwell  upoun  the  ane  tor, 
and  Secretour  Lethingtoun  on  the  uther  tor  of  the  chyre ; 
quhairupoun  thay  waittit  dillegentlie  all  time  of  that  accusa- 
tioun,  sumtymes  the  one  occupying  hir  ear,  sumtymes  the 
uther.  Hir  pomp  lackit  one  principall  point,  to  wit,  womanlie 
gravitie ;  for  when  sche  saw  John  Knox  standing  at  the  uther 
end  of  the  tabill  bair-heided,  sche  first  smyleit,  and  efter 
gaif  ane  gawf  lauchter.  Quhairat  quhen  hir  placeboes  l  gaif 
thair  plaudite,  affirming  with  lyke  countenance,  "  This  is  ane 
gude  begyning,"  sche  said  :  "  But  wat  ye  whairat  I  lauch  ? 
Yon  man  gart  me  greit,  and  grat  never  teir  him  self:  I  will 
see  gif  I  can  gar  him  greit."  At  that  word  the  Secretoure 
quhisperrit  hir  in  the  ear,  and  sche  him  agane,  and  with  that 
gaif  him  ane  letter.  Efter  the  inspectioun  thairof,  he  directit 
his  vissage  and  speche  to  Johne  Knox  in  this  maner : — 

"  The  Quenis  Majestie  is  informit,  that  ye  haif  travellit  to 
raise  a  tumult  of  hir  subjectis  against  hir,  and  for  certifica- 
tioun  thairof,  thair  is  presented  to  hir  your  awin  letter  sub- 
scryvit  in  your  name.  Yit  because  hir  Grace  will  do  na  thing 
without  ane  gude  advysement,  sche  hes  convenit  you  befoir 
this  pairt  of  the  Nobilitie,  that  thai  may  witness  betwix  you 
and  hir." 

"  Lat  him  acknawlege,"  said  sche,  "  his  awin  hand  writ,  and 
than  sail  we  juge  of  the  contentis  of  the  letter." 

And  so  wes  the  letter  presentit  from  hand  to  hand  to  Johne 
Knox,  who,  taking  inspectioun  of  it,  said,  "  I  glaidlie  ac- 
knawlege  this  to  be  my  hand  writ:  and  also  I  remember,  I 
dyteit  ane  letter  in  the  month  of  October,  giffin  significatioun 
to  the  brother  in  sindrie  quarteris,  of  sick  thingis  as  displesit 
me.  And  that  gude  opinioun  haif  I  of  the  fidelatie  of  the 
Scribes  that  willinglie  thai  wald  nocht  adulterat  my  originall, 
albeit  I  left  diverse  blankis  subscryvit  with  thame ;  and  so  I 
acknawlege  boith  the  hand  write  and  the  dytement." 

'  In  MS.  ISfifi,  "  hir  placebo  boyis." 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  405 

"  Ye  liaif  done  more,"  said  Letliingtoun,  "  than  I  wald  liaif 
done." 

"  Charritie,"  said  the  uther,  "  is  not  suspicious." 

"  Weill,  Weill,"  said  the  Queue,  "  reid  your  awin  letter,  and 
than  answer  to  such  thingis  as  salbe  demandit  of  you." 

"  I  sail  do  the  best  I  can,"  said  the  other ;  and  so  with  loud 
voce  he  began  to  reid  as  befoir  expressed. 

Efter  that  the  letter  was  red  to  the  end,  it  was  presentit 
agane  to  Mr.  Johne  Spens ;  for  the  Queue  commandit  him 
to  accuse,  as  he  efter  did,  but  verie  gentillie, — Efter,  we  say, 
that  the  letter  was  red,  the  Queue,  behalding  the  hoill  tabill, 
said,  "  Hard  ye  evir,  my  Lordis,  ane  mair  dispitfull  and  tres- 
sonable  letter  ?"i 

Quhill  that  no  man  gaif  ansuer,  Lethingtoun  addressit  him 
to  John  Knox,  and  said,  "  Maister  Knox,  ar  ye  nocht  sorie 
from  your  liairt,  and  do  ye  nocht  repent  that  sick  ane  letter 
lies  past  your  pen,  and  from  you  is  cumin  to  the  knawlege  of 
utheris." 

Johne  Knox  ansuerit,  "  My  Lord  Secretour,  befoir  I  repent 
I  mavm  be  tauclit  of  my  offence." 

"  Offence,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  gif  thair  wer  na  mair  but 
the  convocatioun  of  the  Quenis  leigis,  the  offence  can  nocht  be 
deny  it." 

"  Remember  your  self,  my  Lord,"  said  the  uther,  "  thair 
is  a  differens  betwix  ane  lauchfull  convocatioun,  and  ane  un- 
lauchfull.  Giff  I  half  bene  giltie  in  this,  I  haif  oft  offen- 
dit  sen  I  come  [last]  in  Scotland :  for  what  convocatioun 
of  the  brethering  lies  ever  bene  to  this  day  into  quhilk  my 
pen  servit  not  ?  Befoir  this  no  man  led  it  to  my  cliairge  as 
ane  cryme." 

"  Than  wes  than,"  said  Lediiigtoun,  "  and  now  is  now : 
We  haif  no  neid  of  sick  convocatiounis  as  sometimes  we 
haif  had." 

•  The  Letter  on  which  this  accusation  was  foimdeii,  is  printed  at  page  395. 


406  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

Joline  Knox  ansuerit,  "  The  time  that  hes  bene  is  evin  now 
befoir  my  eyis  ;  for  I  see  the  pure  flock ^  in  no  less  daunger 
nor  it  hes  bene  at  ony  time  befoir,  except  that  the  Devill  hes 
gottin  a  vissorne  upon  his  face.  Befoir  he  come  in  with  his 
awin  face,  discoverit  be  opin  tyrannie,  seiking  the  destructioun 
of  all  that  hes  refuissit  idolatrie  ;  and  than  1  think  ye  will 
confess  the  brethering  lauchfullie  assembled  thame  selfis  for 
defence  of  thair  lyffeis.  And  now  the  Devill  cumis  under  the 
cloke  of  Justice,  to  do  that  quliilk  God  wald  nocht  sufi'er  him 
to  do  by  strength." 

"  What  is  this  V  said  the  Queue.  "  Me  think  ye  tryfill  with 
him.  Quho  gaif  him  authoritie  to  mak  convocatioun  of  my 
leigis  ?     Is  nocht  that  tressoun  1" 

"  Na,  Madam,"  said  the  Lord  Ruithven,  "  for  he  makis  con- 
vocatioun of  the  pepill  to  heir  prayer  and  sermoun  almost 
daylie,  and  whatevir  your  Grace  or  utheris  will  think  thereof, 
we  think  it  no  tressoun." 

"  Hald  your  peace,"  said  the  Queue,  "  and  let  him  mak 
ansuer  for  him  self." 

"  I  began,  [Madam]"  said  Johne  Knox,  "  to  ressoun  with 
the  Secratour,  quliome  I  tak  to  be  ane  far  better  dialecti- 
cian^ then  your  Grace  is,  that  all  convocatiouns  ar  nocht 
unlauchfull :  and  now  my  Lord  Ruithven  hes  gevin  the  in- 
stance, quhilk  gif  your  Grace  will  deny,  I  sail  addres  me  for 
the  prufe." 

"  I  will  say  nathing,"  said  the  Queue,  "  aganis  your  reli- 
gioun,  nor  aganis  your  convenyng  to  your  sermonis :  But 
quliat  authoritie  haif  ye  to  convocat  my  subjectis  quhen  ye 
will,  without  my  commandiment  ?" 

"  I  haif  no  plesour,"  said  Johne  Knox,  "  to  declyne  from 
the  formar  purpoise.  And  yit,  Madam,  to  satisfie  your  Grace's 
two  questiounis,  I  ansuer,  that  at  my  will  I  nevir  convenit 
four  persounis  in  Scotland ;   but  at  the  ordour  that  the  bre- 

1  111  MS.  lo(J6,  "  folk."  ^  In  MS.  1566,  "  dalectianc." 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  407 

therin  lies  appoyntit,  I  liaif  gevin  diverse  adverteismentis,  and 
grit  multitudis  liaif  assemblit  thairiipone.  And  gif  your  Grace 
comj)lane  that  this  wes  done  without  your  Graceis  commandi- 
ment,  I  ansuer,  sa  hes  all  that  God  lies  hlissed  within  this 
Realme  from  the  begyning  of  this  actioun.  And  thairfoir, 
Madam,  I  maun  be  con vy chit  be  ane  just  law,  that  I  haif  done 
aganis  the  deutie  of  Godis  messinger  in  writting  of  this  let- 
ter, befoir  that  either  I  be  sorie,  or  yit  repent  for  the  doing  of 
it,  as  m}^  Lord  Secretour  wald  perswaid  me  :  For  what  I  haif 
done,  I  haif  done  [at]  the  commandiment  of  the  generall  Kirk 
of  this  Realme  ;  and  thairfoir,  I  think,  I  haif  done  na  wrang." 

"  Ye  sail  not  eschaip  so,"  said  the  Queue.  "  Is  it  nocht  tres- 
soun,  my  Lordis,  to  accuse  ane  Prince  of  creweltie  ?  I  think 
thair  be  Actis  of  Parliament  aganis  sick  whisperaris."  That 
wes  gran  tit  of  monie. 

"  But  whairintill,"  said  Johne  Knox,  "  can  I  be  accusit?" 

"  Reid  this  pairt  of  your  awin  bill,"  said  the  Queue,  quhilk 
began,  "  Thir  feirfiill  summondis  is  direct  aganis  thame,  (to 
wit,  the  bretherin  foirsaid,)  to  make,  no  dout,  preparatioun l 
upoun  ane  few,  that  ane  dore  may  be  opened  till  execute 
creweltie  upoun  ane  grytter  multitude."  "  Lo,"  said  the  Queue, 
"  quhat  say  ye  to  that  V 

Quhill  monie  doubtit  qulian  the  said  Johne  sould  ansuer,  he 
said  unto  the  Queue,  "  Is  it  lauchfull  for  me.  Madam,  to  an- 
suer for  my  self  ?     Or  sail  I  be  dampned  befoir  I  be  hard  ? " 

"  Say  what  ye  can,"  said  sche  ;  "  for  I  think  ye  haif  eneuch 
ado." 

"  I  will  first  [then]  dosyre  this  of  your  Grace,  Madam,  and 
of  this  maist  Honorabill  audience,  quhidder  gif  your  Grace 
knawis  nocht,  that  the  obstinat  Papistis  ar  deidlie  ennemeis  to 
all  sick  as  profess  the  Evangill  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  thai 
moist  eirnistlie  desyre  the  exterminatioun  of  thame,  and  of 
the  trew  doctrine  that  is  taucht  within  this  Realme  ?" 

'  lu  MS.  G,  "  a  preparatyvc." 


408  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

The  Queue  held  hir  peace  :  but  all  the  Lordis,  with  commouu 
voce,  said,  "  God  forbid  that  either  the  lyves  of  the  faythfull, 
or  yit  the  staying  of  the  doctrine,  stude  in  the  power  of  the 
Papistis  :  for  just  experience  lies  tauld  us  what  creweltie  lyis 
in^  thair  hertis." 

"  I  maun  proceid  than,"  said  Johne  Knox,  "  seing  that  I 
persaif  that  all  will  grant  that  it  wer  ane  barbarous  creweltie 
to  destroy  sick  ane  multitude  as  profess  the  Evangell  of  Jesus 
Christ  within  this  Realme,  quhilk  ofter  then  anis  or  twyse 
thai  half  tempit  to  do  be  force,  as  thingis  done  of  lait  dayis 
do  testify,  quhairof  thay,  be  God  and  his  providence,  being 
dissapointit,  haif  inventit  moir  craftie  and  daingerous  practises, 
to  wit,  to  mak  the  Prince  pairtie  under  cullour  of  law  :  and 
so  what  thai  could  not  do  [be]  oppin  force,  tha-i  sail  perform 
be  craftie  deceat.  For  who  thinkis,  my  Lordis,  that  the  in- 
satiable crewaltie  of  the  Papistis,  within  this  Realme,  I  meane, 
sail  end  in  the  murthering  of  these  two  bretherin  now  injust- 
lie  summond,  and  moir  unjustlie  to  be  accusit.  I  think  no 
man  of  judgement  can  sa  esteme,  but  rayther  the  direct  con- 
trair,  that  is,  that  by  this  few  noumer  thai  intend  to  prepair  a 
way  to  thair  bloodie  interprises  aganis  the  whole.  And  thair- 
foir.  Madam,  cast  up  when  ye  list  the  Actis  of  your  Parliment. 
I  haif  offendit  nathing  aganis  tliame ;  I  accuse  nocht  in  my 
letter  your  Grace,  nor  yit  your  natoure  of  creweltie.  But  I 
affirm  yit  agane,  that  the  pestilent  Papistis,  quho  have  inflamit 
your  Grace  without  cans  againis  those  pure  men  at  this  pre- 
sent, ar  the  sonis  of  the  devill ;  and  thairfoir  maun  obey  the 
desires  of  thair  father,  quho  lies  bene  ane  liar  and  ane  mur- 
therour  from  the  begyning." 

"  Ye  forget  your  self,''  said  ane ;  "  ye  ar  not  now  in  the 
pulpit," 

"  I  am  in  the  place,"  said  the  uther,  "  quhair  I  am  denian- 
dit  of  conscience  to  speik  the  treuth ;  and  thairfoir  I  speik. 
»  In  MS.  G,  1566,  "  is  in." 


>  SCHORTLIE 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  409 

Tlie  treutli  I  speik  impuii;:;  it  qulioso  list.  And  lieirunto  [I 
add,]  Madam,  tliat  lionesi.  ..■  3ntill,  and  meik  naturis  be  appeir- 
ance,  be  wickit  and  coirupt  counsalloiiris,  may  be  convertit 
and  alter ^  to  tlie  direct  contrair.  Exampill  we  haif  of  Nero, 
who  in  the  begyning  of  his  impyre,  we  find  haifing  some  natu- 
rall  schame  ;^  but  efter  that  his  flatteraris  had  encuraged  him  ^^^r'^"'' 
in  all  impietie,  alleging,  that  na  thing  wes  either  unhonest  nor  ^fter^"'^^ 
yit  imlauchfull  for  his  personage,  qiiho  wes  Empric 
utheris  :  quhen  he  had  drunken  of  this  coup,  I  say,  to  quhat 
enormiteis  he  fell,  the  historeis  beiris  witnes.  And  now,  Ma- 
dam, to  speik  planelie,  Papistis  and  conjureit  ennemeis  to 
Jesus  Christ,  haif  your  Graceis  eare  patent  at  all  tymeis.  I 
assure  your  Grace  thai  ar  daingerous  counsallouris,  and  that 
your  Mother  fand." 

As  this  wes  said,  Ledingtoun  smyleit,*  and  spak  secreitlie 
to  the  Queue  in  hir  eare  ;  what  it  wes,  the  tabill  hard  nocht. 
But  inimedlatlie  sche  addressit  hir  vissage,  and  spack  to  Johne 
Knox,  and  said,  "  Weill,  ye  speik  fair  eneuch  heir  befoir  my 
Lordis  ;  but  the  last  tyme  I  spak  with  you  secreitlie,  ye  causit 
me  weip  monie  salt  teiris,  and  said  to  me  stubernelie,  '  Ye 
set  not  by  my  greitting." " 

"  Madam,"  said  the  uther,  "  becaus  now  the  secound  tyme 
your  Grace  hes  burdened  me  with  that  crime,  I  maun  ansuer, 
as  [leist]  for  my  silence  I  be  lialdin  gyltie.  [If  your  Grace]  be 
rypelie  rememberit,  the  Laird  of  Dun,  yit  leving  to  testifie  the 
treuth,  was  present  at  that  tyme  quhairof  your  Grace  com- 
plenis.  Your  Grace  accuseit  me,  that  I  had  irreventlie  handyllit 
you  in  the  pulpat ;  that  I  denyit.  Ye  said,  What  ado  had  I 
to  speik  of  your  marriage  ?  What  was  I,  that  I  sould  mell 
with  syk  maiteris  ?  I  ansuerit,  As  tueching-  natour,  I  Aves 
ane  worm  of  this  earth,  and  yet  ane  subject  of  this   Com- 

'  In  MS.  G,   "  be  subverted  and  al-  ^  This  marginal   note   is  omitted   in 

tered."  MS.  G. 

« In  MS.  1566,  "  some  moi-tell."  *  In  MS.  G,  "  smvrklit." 


410  THE  HISTORY  OP  Book  IV. 

mounwelth ;  but  as  tuecliing  the  office  wliairintill  it  lies 
plesit  God  to  place  me,  I  wes  ane  •vatcliman,  baytli  over  the 
Realme,  and  over  tlie  Kirk  of  God  giitlierit  within  the  same ; 
be  reasoun  whairof  I  wes  bound  in  conscience  to  blaw  the 
trumpet  publictlie,  so  oft  as  evir  I  saw  onie  upfall,  onie  ap- 
peiring  dainger,!  either  of  the  one  or  of  the  other.  But  sa  it 
wes,  that  ane  certane  bruit  affermed  that  traffick  of  mariage 
wes  betwix  your  Grace  and  the  Spanishe  allya  ;  quhairinto  I 
said,  that  gif  your  Nobylattie  and  Estaitis  did  agrie,  unles 
that  baytli  ye  and  your  husband  sould  be  so  straitlie  bound, 
that  neither  of  you  mycht  liurte  this  Conimounwealtli,  nor 
yit  the  pure  Kirk  of  God  within  the  same,  that  in  that  cais  I 
wald  pronunce,  that  the  consentaris  wer  trubleris^  of  this 
Commounwelth,  and  ennemeis  to  God,  and  to  his  promeis 
plantit  within  the  same.^  At  these  wordis,  I  grant,  your 
Grace  stormed,  and  burstit  furtli  into  ane  unressonable  weiping. 
Quliat  myttigatioun  the  Laird  of  Dun  wald  haif  maid,  I  sup- 
pois  your  Grace  lies  not  forget.  But  whill  that  nathing  wes 
abill  to  stay  your  weiping,  I  wes  compellit  to  say,  I  tak  God 
to  record,  that  I  never  tuik  plesour  to  see  onie  creatour  weip, 
[yea,  not  my  children  qulieii  my  awin  hands  had  bett  thame,^] 
meikle  less  can  I  rejoise  to  see  your  Grace  mak  sick  regreat. 
But  seing  I  haif  offerlt  your  Grace  no  such  occasioun,  I  maun 
rather  suffer  your  Grace  to  tack  your  awin  plesour,  or  that  I 
dar  conceil  the  treuth,  and  so  betray  baitli  the  Kirk  of  God 
and  my  Commounwelth.  Thir  wes  the  maist  extreme  wordis 
that  I  spak  that  day." 

Efter  that  the  Secretar  had  conferrit  with  the  Queue,  he 
said,  "  Mr.  Knox,  ye  may  returne  to  your  lious  for  this  niclit." 

"  I  thank  God  and  the  Quenis  Majestic,"  said  the  other. 
"  And,  Madame,  I  pray  God  to  purge  your  liairt  from  Papeis- 

'  In  MS.  G,  "  ouy  upfall  oi'  aiiparand  '  In  MS.  G,  "  and  to  his  truth  plant- 

danger."     In  MS.  1566,  "  apfaw."  od  within  the  same." 

'^  In  MS.  G,  "  wer  traytors."  ^  These  words  omitted  in  MS.  156(5. 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  411 

trey,  and  to  preserve  you  from  the  counsall  of  flatteraris  ;  for 
how  pleasand  that  thei  aj)peir  to  your  ear  and  corrupt  aifec- 
tioun  for  the  tyme,  experience  hes  tauld  us  in  what  pcrplexatie 
thay  have  broclit  famous  princes." 

Ledingtoune  and  the  Maister  of  Maxwell  [were]  that  nycht 
the  two  stoupeis  of  hir  chair. 

Johne  Knox  being  departit,  the  Tabill  of  the  Lordis,  and 
utheris  that  wer  present,  wer  demandit,  everie  man  be  his  vote, 
Gif  Johne  Knox  had  nocht  offendit  the  Quenis  Majestie.  The 
Lordis  voteit  uniformelie  thai  coulde  find  no  offence.  The 
Quene  wes  past  to  hir  cabinet.  The  flatteraris  of  the  Courte, 
and  Ledingtoune  pryncipally,  raged.  The  Quene  wes  brocht 
agane,  and  placeit  in  hir  chyre,  and  thai  commandit  to  vote 
oure  agane  :  quhilk  thing  heichlie  offendit  the  haill  Nobylattie, 
and  began  to  speik  in  opin  audience,  "  What !  sail  the  Laird 
of  Lethingtoune  haif  power  to  controle  us:  or  sail  the  presence 
of  ane  woman  cans  us  to  offend  God,  and  to  dampne  ane  inno- 
cent aganis  oure  conscience  for  plesour  of  onie  creatour?" 
And  so  the  haill  Nobylattie  absolved  Johne  Knox  agane,  and 
praisit  God  for  his  modestie,  and  for  his  plane  and  sensible 
ansueris.  Yit  befoir  the  end,  ane  thing  is  to  be  noittit,  to  witt, 
tiiat  amangis  sa  monie  placeboes,  we  mene  the  flatteraris  of 
Courte,  thair  wes  nocht  ane  that  planelie  durst  condampne 
the  pure  man  that  was  accusit,  this  same  God  reuling  thair 
tounge  that  sometymeis  reulit  the  toung  of  Balaam,^  when 
gladlie  he  wald  haif  cursit  Godis  pepill. 

This  persaveit,  the  Quene   began   to  upbraid  Mr.   Henrie 
Synclair,  then  Bischope  of  Ross,  and  said,  heiring  his  vote  to 
agree  with  the  rest,   "  Trubill  nocht  the  barne :    I  ])ra,j  you  thk  tant 
trubill  him  nocht ;  for  he  is  newlie  walknit  out  of  his  sleip.  <*'"-^'^  '^ 

'  i      MR.  ftKNRII 

Why  soulde  nocht  the  aulde  fule  follow  the  futestapis  of 
thame  that  haif  passit  befoir  him."  The  Bischope  answerit 
cauldlie,  "  Your  Grace  may  considder,  that  it  is  neither  affec- 

1  In  Mfc?.  1566,  "  Balam." 


SYNCLAIR. 


THE  CRAFT 
OF   THE 
COUETE. 


412  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

tiouii  to  the  man,  nor  yit  lufe  to  his  profFessioun  that  moved 
me  to  absolve  him  ;  but  the  sempill  treuthe,  quhilk  planelie 
appeiris  in  his  defence,  drawis  me  efter  it,  albeit  that  utheris 
wald  haif  condampnit  him/'  And  this  being  said,  the  Lordis 
and  haill  assisteris  araise  and  departit.  That  nycht  wes 
nether  dansing  nor  fyddilling  in  tlie  Courte  ;  for  Madame  wes 
disappoyntit  of  hir  purpois,  quhilk  wes  to  haif  had  Johne 
Knox  in  hir  will  be  vote  of  hir  Nobylattie. 

Johne  Knox,  absolved  be  the  votes  of  the  grittest  pairt  of 
the  Nobylattie  from  the  cryme  intendit  aganis  him,  evin  in 
the  presence  of  the  Quene,  sche  rageit,  and  the  placebois  of 
the  Courte  stormed  :  And  so  began  new  assaultis  to  be  maid 
at  the  handis  of  the  said  Johne,  to  confes  ane  offence,  and  to 
put  him  in  the  Quenis  will,  and  thay  soulde  promeis  that  his 
gryttest  punischement  sould  be  to  go  within  the  Castell  of 
Edinburgh,  and  immediatlie  to  returne  to  his  awin  hous.  He 
answerit,  '"'  God  forbid  that  my  confessioune  soulde  dampne 
those  nobill  men  that  of  thair  conscience,  and  with  displasour 
of  the  Quene,  have  absolved  me.  And  forder,  I  am  assureit,  ye 
will  nocht  in  earnist  desyre  me  to  confes  ane  offence,  onles 
that  thairwith  ye  wald  desyre  me  to  ceise  from  preiching :  for 
how  can  I  exhorte  utheris  to  peace  and  Cryssin  quyetnes,  gif 
I  confes  myself  ane  authour  and  mover  of  seditioun  V 

The  Generall  Assemblie  of  the  Kirk  approcheit.  But  the 
juste  petitiounis  of  the  Mynisteris  and  Commissionaris  of 
Kirkis  wer  dispysit  at  the  first,  and  that  with  thir  wordis, 
THK  COUETE  "  ^g  Mvnisteris  will  not  follow  our  counsellis,  so  will  we  suffer 
TEEis\""^^'^  Mynisteris  to  labour  for  thame  selfis,  and  see  what  speid  thai 
cum."  And  when  the  quhole  Assemblie  said,  "  Gif  the  Quene 
will  not  [provide  for  our  Ministeris],  we  man ;  [for]  bayth 
Thrid  and  Tua  pairt  ar  rigyrrouslie  takin  frome  us,  and  frome 

'  This  note  is  taken  into  the  text  in  New  Tolbiiith,  the  25th  of  December." 

MS.  G.     In  M.S.  L  4,   the   paragraph  And  this   marginal  note   is   added  : — 

reads : — "  The   Generall   Assemblie    of  '■  Quick   speeches   betwix   some   Conr- 

the  Kirk  convened  at  Edinburgh  in  the  teours,  Barrens,  and  Ministers." 


BKGAN  THE 
M  OF   DE- 
CEMBEE.1 


1503.  THE   REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  4\?> 

our  tennentis."  "  Gitf  utlieris,"  said  one,  "  will  follow  my  coun- 
sel!, the  gaird  and  the  Papistis  sail  complene  als  lang  as  our 
Mynisteris  half  done."  At  these  wordis  the  former  scherp- 
nes  wes  cullourit,  and  the  speikare  allegit,  that  he  menit  not 
of  all  Mynisteris,  hot  of  sum  to  quhome  the  Queue  wes  no 
dettour ;  for  what  Thrid  ressavit  sche  of  Borrowis  ?  Cris- 
topheir  Gudeman  l  ansuerit,  "  My  Lord  Secretour,  gif  ye  can 
schaw  me  what  [just]  tyttill  either  the  Queue  lies  to  the  Thrid, 
or  the  Papistis  to  the  Twa  pairt,  then  I  think  I  soulde  solve^ 
quhidder  sche  Aver  dettour  to  Mynisteris  within  broughis  or 
not."  But  thairto  he  ressavit  this  check  for  ansure,  "  Xe  sit 
jperegrinus  curiosus  in  aliena  Repuhlica ;"  that  is,  "  Lat  not 
ane  strainger  be  curious  in  a  strainge  Commounewelth."  The 
man  of  God  ansuerit,  "  Albeit  I  be  ane  strainger  in  your 
poUicey,  yit  so  am  I  not  in  the  Kirk  of  God ;  and  thairfoir 
the  cair  thairof  does  no  less  appertene  to  me  in  Scotland  than 
gif  I  wer  in  the  myddis  of  Ingland." 

Monie  wonderit  at  the  sylence  of  Johne  Knox  ;  for  in  all 
those  quick  ressonyngis  he  openit  not  his  mouthe.  The  cause 
thairof  he  himself  expressit  in  those  wordis  :  "  I  haif  travellit, 
ryclit  honorabill  and  belovit  Bretherin,  sen  my  last  anyval 
within  this  Realme  in  ane  uprycht  conscience  befoir  my  God, 
seiking  no  thing  more,  as  he  is  [my]  wytness,  than  the  ad- 
vancement of  his  glorie,  and  the  stabillitie  of  his  Kirk  within 

1  Christopher  Goodman  was  a  native  on  retui-ning  to  England,  he  accom- 
of  Chester,  born  about  the  year  1520,  panied  Knox's  wife  and  family  to  Scot- 
and  educated  at  Oxford.  Dui-ing  the  land,  in  September  1559,  and  became 
persecutions  in  England,  after  Queen  minister  of  Ayr.  He  was  soon  after- 
Mary's  accession  to  the  throne,  he  went  wards  translated  to  St.  Andrews,  as  a 
first  to  Frankfort,  then  to  Strasburg,  place  of  greater  importance.  He  re- 
and  in  September  1555,  he  was  chosen  turned  to  England  towards  the  close  of 
Knox's  colleague  at  Geneva.  In  1558,  1565.  (Booke  of  the  Kirk,  vol.  i.  p.  72.) 
he  published  his  celebrated  treatise,  He  died  at  an  advanced  age,  at  Chester, 
"  How  Superior  Powers  ought  to  be  in  1601.  See  notices  collected  by  Dr. 
obeyed,"  which  rendered  him  so  ob-  M'Crie,  Life  of  Knox,  vol.  ii.  pp.  331- 
noxious  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  on  account  333,  459. 
of  his  statements  on  "  The  Regiment  of  ^  In  MS.  1566,  «  resonne." 
Women."     Finding  no  encouragement. 


KSOX 

FALSLIE 

EEPOIETIT 

OF. 


414  THE  HISTORY  OP  Book  IV. 

tliis  Rcalme ;  and  yit  of  kit  dayis  I  liaif  bene  accuseit  as  ane 
sedytious  man,  and  as  ane  that  usurj)es  unto  my  self  power 
that  becumis  me  nocht.  Trew  it  is,  I  haif  gevin  adverteis- 
mentis  into  the  bretherin  in  dyveris  quarteris,  of  the  extre- 
mitie  intendit  aganis  certane  faythfull  for  luiking  to  ane 
Preist  going  to  Mess,  and  for  observing  of  those  that  trans- 
gressit  juste  lawis  ;  bot  [that]  thairintill  I  haif  usurped  farther 
power  than  is  gevin  into  me,  till  that  be  you  I  be  dampned,  I 
utterlie  deny ;  for  I  say,  that  be  you,  that  is  be  the  chairge 
of  the  Generall  Assemblie,  I  haif  als  just  power  to  adverteise 
the  bretherin  from  tyme  to  tyme  of  daingers  appeiring,  as 
that  I  haif  to  preche  the  worde  of  God  in  the  pulpett  of  Edin- 
brough  ;  for  be  you  I  wes  appoyntit  to  the  one  and  to  the 
uther ;  and  thairfoir,  in  the  name  of  God,  I  craif  your  juge- 
mentis.  The  dainger  that  appeirit  to  me  in  my  accusatioun 
wes  nocht  sua  feirfull  as  the  Avordis  that  come  to  my  earis  Aver 
dollorous  to  my  liairt ;  for  thir  wordis  wer  planelie  spokin,  and 
that  be  sum  Protestantis,  '  Wliat  can  the  Pape  do  mair  then 
send  furth  his  Letteris,  and  requyreit  thame  to  be  obeyit/ 
Lat  me  haif  your  jugementis  thairof,  quhidder  that  I  haif 
usurped  onie  power  to  my  self,  or  gif  I  haif  bot  obeyit  your 
commandim  ent." 

The  flatteraris  of  the  Courte,  amangis  quhome  Sir  Joline 
Ballentyne,  Justice  Clerk,!  wes  then  not  the  leist,  began  to 
storme,  and  said,  "  Sail  we  be  compellit  to  justifie  the  rasch 
doingis  of  men?"  "  My  Lorde,"  said  Johne  Knox,  "ye  sail 
speik  your  plesour  for  the  present :  of  you  I  craif  no  thing  ; 
bot  gif  the  Kirk  that  is  heir  present  do  not  either  absolve 
me,  or  ellis  condampne  me,  nevir  sail  I  in  publict  or  in  privat, 
as  ane  publict  mynister,  open  my  moutlie  in  doctrine  or  in 
ressonyng," 

'  In  MS.  G,  "  Bellenden,"  the  same  of  Auchinoul,  Justice-Clerk,  is  repeat- 
name   during  the   16th  century  being  edly  mentioned  by  Knox  :   see  notes  in 
■written  Ballenden,    Bellenden,  Ballan-  vol.  i.  pp.  358,  418. 
tyne,  Bannatyne.     Sir  John  Bellenden 


1563.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  415 

Efter  lang  contentioun,  the  said  Jolmc  being  removed,  the 
whole  Kirk  fand,  that  a  ehairg  wes  gevin  unto  liim  to  ad- 
verteis  the  Bretheriu  in  all  quarteris  as  oft  as  evir  dainger 
ajipeirit ;  and  thairfoir  avowit  that  fact  not  to  be  his  onlie,  bot 
to  be  the  fact  of  all.  Thairat  wer  the  Quenis  claw-backis  mair 
inrageit  than  evir  thai  wer ;  for  sum  of  thame  had  promissit 
to  the  Quene  to  get  the  said  Johne  convjct,  baith  be  the 
Consall  and  be  the  Kirk  -^  and  being  frustrat  of  boith,  sclie 
and  thai  thocht  thame  selffis  nocht  [a  little]  dissapoyntit. 

In  the  verie  tyme  of  the  Generall  Assemblie,  thair  cumis  to 
publyct  knawlege  ane  heinous  murdour  committed  in  the 
Courte,  yea,  not  far  from  the  Quenis  awin  lap  ;  for  ane  Frenche  1'j6'5- 
woman,  that  servit  in  the  Quenis  chalmer  had  playit  the  hure 
with  the  Quenis  awin  hipoticary.^  The  woman  conceveit  and 
bare  ane  child,  quhome  v/ith   commoune  consent  the   father  nrRDojiE 

^  ^_  _  AND   MI'R- 

and  the  mother  murthered.     Yit  wer  the  cryis  of  ane  new  ^^'^^  ^^ 

•^  THE 

borne  barne  hard ;  searche  wes  maid,  the  chylde  and  mother  courte. 
w^es  baith  deprehendit ;   and  so  wer  baith  the  man  and  the 
Avoman  dampned  to  be  hangit  upoun  the  publict  streit  of  Edin- 
burgh.    The  punischment  wes  notable,  becaus  the  cryme  wes 
heinous.     Bot  yit  wes  not  the  Courte  purged  of  liureis  and 
huredome,   quliilk  wes  the  fontane  of  sik  enormiteis ;  for  it 
wes  Weill  knamn,   that  schame  haistit  mariage  betwix  Johne  s^mpill 
Sempill,  callit  the  Danser,  and  Marie  Levingstoune,  surnameit  ^^^'^7'" 
the   Lustie.^      What   bruit    the   Maries  and  the  rest  of  the 

>  In  MS.  6,  "  Churche  "  is  now  gene-  stone  Wcas  one  of  the    Queen's  Maries 

rally  used  for  "  Kirk."  who  accompanied  her  to  France,  and 

2  MS.  G,  "  Hypothecary;"  in  MS.  L4,  was  the  youngest  daughter  of  Alexan- 

"Apothecar."     No  notice  of  their  trial  der  fifth  Lord   Levingstone.     It    may 

and  execution  is  elsewhere  given ;  and  have  been  to  ensure  their  marriage  that 

the  Record  of  the  Criminal   Court  at  the  Queen,  by  a  special  grant  under  the 

this  period,  which  might  have  furnished  Privy  Seal,  to  "  John  Sempill,  sone  to  hir 

the  same,  is  not  preserved.  cousin  Robert  Lord  Sempill,  and  Marie 

=  .John  Sempill  was  the  son  of  Robert  Levingstoun  his  spous,  sister  to  William 

third  Lord  Sempill,  by  a  second  mar-  Lord  Livingstone,"  granted  a  charter  of 

riage  with  Elizabeth  Carlyle.  (Wood's  various  lands,  in  consideration  that  "  it 

Peerage,  vol.  ii.  p.  494.)     Mary  Leving-  had  pleisit  God  to  move  thair  hartis  to 


416 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


dansaris  of  tlie  Courte  had,  the  ballattis  of  that  aige^  did  wit- 
nes,  quhilk  we  for  modesteis  sake  omit.  Bot  this  wes  the 
commoune  complaint  of  all  godlie  and  wjse  men,  that  giff  thai 
thocht  that  sick  ane  Courte  soulde  lang  continew,  and  giiF  thai 
luikit  for  no  uther  lyffe  to  cum,  thay  wald  haif  wissit  thair 
soneis  and  dochteris  rather  to  have  bene  brought  up  with  fyd- 
laris  and  dansaris,  and  to  have  bene  exerceit  in  flinging  upone 
ane  flure,  and  in  the  rest  that  thairof  followis,  than  to  haif 
bene  nurisched  in  the  companie  of  the  godlie,  and  exerceissit 
RE-  in  vertew,  quhilk  in  that  Courte  wes  haittit,  and  fjlthines  not 
onlie  maintenit,  bot  also  rewairded.  Witnes  the  Lordschip^  of 
Abercorne,  the  baronie  of  Authormortie,  ^  and  diverse  utheris 
pertenyng  to  the  patrimonie  of  the  Crowne,  gyffin  in  heritage 
to  scouparis,  dansaris,  and  dalliaris  with  damis.  This  wes 
the  begyning  of  the  regement  of  Marie  Queue  of  Scottis,  and 
thir  wer  the  fructeis  that  sche  brocht  furth  of  France.  "  Lorde, 


joj^ne  togidder  in  the  stait  of  matrimo- 
nye."  It  is  dated  9th  March  1564-5. 
In  the  Parliament  19th  April  1567,  when 
it  proposed  to  annul  the  forfeiture  of 
George  Earl  of  Huntley,  which  would 
affect  various  grants  that  had  been 
made,  the  charter  of  infeftment  in  the 
lands  of  Auchtermuchty,  Stewarton,  and 
others,  to  Sempill,  was  anew  ratified  by 
the  Queen.  (Acta  Pari.  Scot.,  vol.  ii.  p. 
559.)  The  same  favour  was  continued 
by  James  the  Sixth,  on  the  penult 
November  1581,  from  his  general  Revo- 
cation of  gi-ants,  among  other  excep- 
tions, "  reservit  and  exceptit "  the  in- 
feftment made  by  Queen  Mary  "  to 
umquhile  Jolm  Semple  of  Butress,  and 
Marie  Livingston  his  spous,  of  the 
town  and  lands  of  Auchtermuchtie,  and 
otheri.s,"  &c.  (ib.  vol.  iii.  p.  245.)  This 
shews  that  Semple  was  then  deceased. 
He  had  acquired  the  lands  of  Bel  trees  in 
Pienfrewshire — a  name  distinguished  in 
the  literature  of  Scotland  during  the 
17th  century. 


*  The  ballads  to  which  Knox  specially 
alludes  are  not  known  to  be  preserved. 
Various  enactments  and  proclamations 
were  made  from  tune  to  time,  prohibit- 
ing, in  1556,  for  instance,  "  the  odeous 
ballates  and  rymes  laitly  sett  furth  be 
sume  evill  inclinit  personis  of  your 
toun."  (Maitland's  Hist,  of  Edinb.,  p. 
14.) 

5  In  MS.  1566,  «  Bischope  of." 

6  In  JIS.  G,  "  Achemioutie."  It  will 
be  seen  fi-om  the  previous  note  3,  that 
the  lands  of  Auchtermuchty,  in  Fife,  had 
been  conferred  on  John  Sempill  and 
Mary  Leviugstone,  his  wife,  in  1565. 
The  Lordship  of  Abercorn  was  probably 
bestowed  about  the  same  time  upon 
one  of  the  courtiers.  At  a  later  period, 
at  least,  John  Levingstone,  one  of  the 
Master  Stabularis,  had  a  grant  in  feu- 
farm  of  the  land.s,  &c.,  of  Abercorn,  10th 
October  1587,  of  which  he  obtained  a 
ratification  by  ParUament,  oth  June 
1592.   (Acta  Pari.  Scot.,  vol.  iii.  p.  643.) 


1563-4.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  417 

luik  u2)one  our  mysereis,  and  delyver  us  from  the  tyrannie^  ^^i""i\7Kn. 
that  hure,  for  thy  awin  meir  mercies  saik."  sue  we""^'^ 

Grod  from  hevin,  and  upone  tlie  face  of  the  eirth,  gaif  decla-  i^ux^inJ-^'^^^ 
ratioun  that  he  wes  offendit  at  the  iniquitie  that  wes  committit  '''''^''^•■' 
evin  within  this  Reahne  ;   for  upone  tlie   20th  day  of  Januare  ^^.p"j.Rfj^sT 
thair  fell  weit  in  grit  ahoundance,  quhilk  in  the  falling  freisit  '^"■'*'^'-*''''- 
so   vehementlie,   that   the  eirth  wes  hot  ane  scheit  of  ysce. 
The  foules  haith  grit  and  small  freisit,  and  mycht  nocht  flee  : 
monie  deyit,  and  sum  w^er  takin  and  laid  besyde  the  fyre,  that 
thair  fetheris  mycht  resolve.     And  in  that  same  moneth  the 
sey  stude  still,  as  wes  clerlie  observed,  and  nather  ebbit  nor 
flowit  the  space  of  24.  houris.     In  the  moneth  of  Februare,  the  ^vondauis 

^  '  SE.NE  IN 

loth  and  18tli  day  thairof,  wes  sene  in  the  fyrmament  battelis  febrcar. 
arrayit,  speiris,  and  utheris  weapounis,  and  as  it  had  bene  the 
joinyng  of  two  armeis.     Thir  thingis  wer  nocht  onlie  obsei-ved, 
hot  also  spokin  and  constantlie  aifyrmed  be  men  of  jugement 
and   credit.     But   the    Quene   and    our    Court    maid   myrrie. 
Thair  wes  banketting  upoun   banketting.      The   Quene   wald  i^^thJ"^" 
banket  all  the  Lordis  ;  and  that  wes  done  upoun  polessie,  to  coxtejiV""^ 
remove  the  suspitioune  of  liir  displesour  aganis  thame,  becaus  myniI^eels. 
thai  w^ald  nocht  at  hir  devotioun  dampne  Johne  Knox.     To 
remove,  we  say,  that  jeloussie,  sche  maid  the  banket  to  the 
haill  Lordis,  quhairat  sche  wald  haif  the  Duke  amangis  the 
rest.     It  behuifit  thame  to  banket  hir   agane ;   and   so    did 
banketting  continew  till    Fastronis-evin  and  efter.     But  the 
pure  Mynisteris   wer  mockit,  and  reputed  as  monsteris ;  the 
gaird,  and^  the  efiairis  of  the  kytcheing  wer  so  gryping,  that 
the  Mynisteris  stij)endis  could  nocht  be  payit ;  and  yit  at  the 
Assemblie  precedeand,  solemnitlie  promeis  wes  maid  in  the 
Quenis  name,  be  the  mouth  of  Secretour  Lethingtoune,  in  the  projIhis.^'^ 
audiance  of  monie  of  the  Nobylatie  and  of  the  hoill  Assemblie, 
wdio  affyrmeit,  that  he  had  commandiment  of  hir  Heichues  to 

1  In  MS.  15G6,  "  tyi-anitie."  »  In  MS.  1566,  "  regairdand"  as  one 

-  Or,  in  the  year  1.366.  word. 

VOL.  II.  2d 


418  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

promeis"^  unto  thame  full  contentatioun  to  all  tlie  Mynisteris 
■within  tlie  Realm  e  of  thingis  bygane ;  and  of  suche  ordour  to  be 
keipit  in  all  tymeis  to  cum,  tliat  tlie  AA^liole  bodie  of  the  Pro- 
testantis  soulde  haif  occasioune  to  stand  content.  The  Erie  of 
Murray  affermit  the  same,  with  monie  uthair  fair  promeisses 
gevin  be  writ  be  Lethingtoune  him  self ;  as  in  the  register  of 
the  Actis  done  in  the  Generall  Assemblie  may  be  sene.^  Bot 
how  that,  or  yit  anie  uther  thing  promissit  by  hir,  or  in  hir 
name,  unto  the  Kirk  of  Grod,  wes  observed,  the  Warlde  can 
witnes. 

The  Mynisteris  perceaving  all  thingis  tend  to  ruyne,  dis- 
chairgit  thair  conscience  in  publict  and  in  previt ;  but  thay 
ressaifit  for  thair  laubouris  haitred  and  indignatioun ;  and 
amangis  utheris,  that  worthie  servand  of  God,  Mr.  John  Craig, 
speiking  aganis  the  manifest  corruptioun  that  then  withoute 
schame  or  feir  dcclareit  the  self,  said,  "  Sum  tymeis  wer  hypo- 
criteis  knawin  be  thair  disgyseit  habittis,  and  we  had  men  to 
be  monkis,  and  women  to  be  nunis  ;  but  now  all  thingis  ar  so 
chaingit,  that  we  can  nocht  dyscerne  the  Erie  frome  the 
Abbot,  nor  the  Nun  frome  sik  as  wald  be  lialdin  the  Nobill- 
wemin  -^  so  that  we  haif  gottin  ane  new  ordour  of  monkis  and 
nunis.  But,  (said  he,)  seing  that  ye  eschame  not  of  that 
unjuste  proiFeit,  wald  God  that  thairwith  ye  had  the  coule  of 
the  nun,  the  vaill,  yea,  and  the  taill  joyned  with  all,^  that  so 
ye  mycht  appeir  in  your  awin  cullouris." 

This  lybertie  did  so  provoik  the  ch oiler 5  of  Lethingtoune, 
that  in  opin  audience  he  gaif  him  unto  the  Devill,  gif  that  ever 
efter  that  day  he  sould  regaird  what  become  of  Mynisteris,  that 
he  sould  do  what  he  could,  that  his  companyeounis  sould  haif 
ane  skair  with  him  ;  "  And  lat  thame  bark  and  blaw,"  said  he, 

1  In  MS.  1566,  "  to  pronunce."  ^  In  MS.  1-566,  these  words  appear  in 

*  See  the  proceedings  of  the  General  this  unintelligible  form,    "  ze  had  the 

Assembly,  (Book  of  the  Univcrsall  Kirk,  coule  of  the  waill,  ye  and  the  taill  jimit 

vol.  i.  p.  48.)  with  all." 

3  In  MS.  lo66,  "  gentillman."  '=■  In  MS.  1566.  "  the  collowre." 


15fi3-4.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  419 

"  alse  loude  as  thay  list."  And  so  that  wes  the  second  tymc 
that  he  had  gevin  [his]  defyance  to  the  servandis  of  God. 
And  heirupone  raise  whispering  and  complainttis,  all  be  the 
flatteraris  of  the  Courte,  complenyng-  that  men  wer  not  cheri- 
tablj^  handy  Hit :  "  Mycht  nocht  synnis  be  repruifit  in  gene- 
rail,  albeit  that  men  wer  not  so  specialie  taxed,  that  all  the 
warlde  mycht  knaw  of  wliome  the  preachour  spak  ? ''  Quliair- 
into  wes  the  ansuer  maid,  "  Let  men  eschame  j^ubliklie  to 
offend,  and  the  Mynisteris  sail  abstene  from  specialiteis  ;  but 
so  lang  as  Protestantis  ar  not  eschameit  manifestlie  to  do 
aganis  the  evangill  of  Jesus  Chryste,  so  lang  can  nocht  the 
Mynisteris  of  God  ceise  to  cry,  that  God  wilbe  revengit  ujioun 
sik  abusearis  of  his  liolie  worde." 

And  thus  had  the  servandis  of  God  ane  doubill  battell, 
fechting  upoun  the  one  syde  aganis  the  idolatrie  and  the  rest 
of  the  abominatiovuiis  mentenit  be  the  Queue  ;  and  upoun 
the  uther  pairt,  aganis  the  unthankfulnes  of  sik  as  sumtyme 
wald  half  bene  estemed  the  cheiff  pyllaris  of  the  Kirk  within 
the  Realme. 

The  threitnyngis  of  the  prechouris  wer  feirfull ;  but  the 
Courte  thocht  the  self  in  [such]  securitie  that  it  coulde  nocht 
my  scary.  2  The  Queue,  efter  the  banketting,  keipit  a  dyett  1504. 
[be  directioun  of]  Monsieur  Lusury,  Frenche  man,  who  had 
bene  acquaintit  with  hir  maladie  befoir,  being  hir  physicioun  :^ 
And  theirefter  sche,  for  the  secound  tyme,  maid  hir  progresses 
in  the  North,'^  and  commandit  to  waird   in   the   Castell  of 

'  In  MS.  1566,  "  chyrrable."  Lusgevie.    (LabanofiF,  Lettres,  &c.,  vol.  i. 

-  In  MS.  1-566,  "  mynnistrey."  p.  256 ;  vol.  vii.  p.  305.) 
^  In  MS.  G,  "  Monsieur  la  Usurie."  ♦  Before  the  Queen's  second  progre.ss 

Tlie  person  referred  to  was  .Jacques  Lus-  in  the  North,  she  had  visited  the  West  of 

gerie,  who  had  been  the  Queen's  physi-  Scotland,  and  returned  from  Inverary 

ciau  while  she  resided  in  France.     He  through  Ayrshire  to  Dumfi-ies.      This 

is  mentioned  by  her  in  a  letter  to  Catha-  journey  lasted  fi-oni  the  29th  .June  till 

rine  de  Medicis,  12th  March  1565.     In  the  beginning  of  September  1563.  After 

May  1571,  the  Queen  requests  Beaton  stopping  a  few  days  in  Edinburgh,  she 

to  send  her  a  physician  fi'om  France,  proceeded  to  Perthshire   and  Stirling, 

with  the   advice,    or  recommended   by  But  the  journey  to  which  Knox  here  al- 


420  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

Edinburgh  the  Erie  of  Kaithness,^  for  ane  rnurtlier  committit 
be  his  servandis  upouii  the  Erie  of  Merehellis  men.  He 
obeyit,  hot  he  wes  sodentlie  relevit ;  for  sik  blude-thrystie 
men  and  Papeistis,  sik  as  he  is,  ar  best  subjectis  to  the 
Quene.  "  Thy  king-dome  cum,  0  Lord ;  for  in  this  Realme 
is  no  thing  (amangis  sik  as  soulde  punische  vjce  and 
mentene  vertew)  but  abhominatiounis  abounding  withoute 
brydell." 

The  flatteraris^  of  the  Courte  did  daylie  inrage  aganis  the 
pure  Prechouris :  happyest  wes  he  that  coulde  invent  the 
moist  bytter  tantis  and  disdainfull  mokingis  of  the  Mynis- 
teris.  And  at  lenth  thai  began  to  jest  at  the  terme  of  Idolatrie, 
affirmyng,  "  That  men  wist  nocht  what  thai  spak,  quhan  thai 
callit  the  Messe  Idolatrie."  Yea,  sum  proceidit  farder,  and 
feirit  nocht  at  opin  tabilles  to  affirme,  "  That  thai  wald  sus- 
tene  the  argument,  tliat  the  Messe  wes  no  Idolatrie."  These 
thingis  cuming  to  the  earis  of  the  prechouris,  wer  proclamit  in 
publyct  pulpett  of  Edinburgh,  with  this  complaynt  direct  be 
the  speikare''  to  his  God.  "  0  Lord,  how  lang  sail  the  wyckit 
prevaill  aganis  the  juste !  How  lang  sail  thou  suffer  thy  self  and 
thy  blessit  Evangill  to  be  dyspysit  of  men;  of  men,  we  say,  that 
makis  ^  tliame  selfis  defendaris  of  the  treuth  !  For  of  thy  ma- 
nifest and  knawin  ennemeis  we  complene  nocht,  hot  of  such 
as  unto  whom  thou  hes  reveilit  thy  lycht :  for  now  it  cumis  into 
our  eiris,  that  men,  not  Papistis,  we  say,  bot  cheif  Protestantis, 
will  defend  the  Messe  to  be  no  Idolatrie.  Giff  so  wer,  0  Lord, 
myserablie  half  I  bene  disavit,  and  myscrablie,  alace,  0  Lord, 

ludes  was  in  the  following  year.     She  to  Dundee  and  St.  Andrews,  reaching 

rode  from  Edinburgh  on  the  22dof  July  Holyrood  on  the  25th  or  26th  Septem- 

1564.     She  was  at  Perth  on  the  81st,  ber,  after  an  absence  of  upwards  of  two 

when   she   went    into    the    district   of  months. 

Athole  "  to  the  hunting."     After  cross-  ^  George  fourtli  Earl  of  Caithness,  who 

ing   the  mountains,  and  visiting  some  died  9th  September  1582. 

parts  of  Inverncss-shire,  and  the  Cha-  «  In  MS.  1566,  "  flattering." 

nonry  of  Ross,  she  returned  along  the  '  That  is,  by  Knox  himself, 

east  coast,  by  Aberdeen  and  Dunottar,  '  '  In  MS.  G,  "  that  boastis." 


1.104.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  421 

liaif  I  deceavit  thy  peopill ;  quliilk  tliou  knav/is,  0  Lord,  I  haif 
evir  moir  abliorrit  than  a  thousand  deithis.  Bot/'  said  he, 
turnyng-  his  face  towardis  the  rowme  where  sik  men  as  so  had 
affirmed,  sat,  "  Gif  I  he  nocht  able  to  prove  the  Messe  to  be  the 
moist  abhominable  Idolatrie  that  evir  Aves  useit  sen  the  begyn- 
ning-  of  the  Worlde,  I  oft'er  my  self  to  suffer  the  punischement 
appoyntit  be  God  to  a  fals  teichare  ;  and  it  appeiris  unto  me," 
said  the  preichare,  "  that  the  affirmeris  soulde  be  subject  to  the 
same  hiw :  for  it  is  the  treuthe  of  God  that  ye  persecute  and 
blaspheme ;  and  it  is  the  inventioun  of  the  Devill,  that  obsti- 
natlie  aganis  his  Worde,  ye  menteyne.  Whairat,  albeit  ye  now 
flyrt  and  ye  flyre,  as  [thocht]  that  all  wer  spokin  wer  but 
wind,^  yit  am  I  [als]  assureit,  as  I  am  assureit  that  my  God 
leveth,  that  sum  that  hear  this  your  defectioun  and  railling 
aganis  the  treuthe  and  servandis  of  God,  sail  see  ane  pairt  of 
Godis  jugementis  poured  furtli  upoun  this  Realme,  (and  pryn- 
cipallie  upoun  you  2  that  fastest  cleifes  to  the  favour  of  the 
Courte,)  for  the  abominatiounes  that  ar  be  you  menteneit." 
Albeit  that  suclie  vehemencie  provoikit  teiris  of  sum,  yit  those 
men  that  knew  themselfis  guilty,  in  a  mocking  maner  said, 
"  We  must  recant,  and  burne  oure  bill ;  for  the  Prechouris  ar 
angrie." 

The  Generall  Assemblie,  halden  in  Junij  1564,3  approcheit,  A^^<J  15G4. 
unto  the  which  greit^  pairt  of  the  Nobylatie,  of  those  that  ar 
callit  Protestantis,  convenit ;   sum  for  assistance  of  the  mynis- 
teris,  and  sum  to  accuse  thame,  as  we  will  efter  heir.^ 

A  lyttill  befoir  the  trubles,  quhich  Sathan  raised  in  the  bodie 

^  In  MS.  1566,  "  woiinde."  1566,  of  two  marginal  notes  only  some 

2  In  MS.  M.  there  is  added  this  re-  vmintelligible   letters   remain    immuti- 

niark, "  But  this  threatening  was  accom-  lated  by  the  binder  :  but  the  notes  occur 

plished  in  his  owne  person  ;"  and  the  in  MS.  G,  as  follows  : — 

next  paragraph  is  Avholly  omitted.  "  Lethingtounes  coimtenance   at  the 

*  At   Edinburgh  on  the   25th  Jime  threatnings  of  the  preichars." 

1.564.  "Let  t!ie  Warld  judge  quliidder  this 

*  In  MS.  1566,  "  aggreit."  has  cummyn  to  pas  or  not,  and  quhat 
5  Here  and  a  few  lines  above,  in  MS.       has  falliu  out  sen  that  tyme." 


422  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

of  the  Kirk,  began  Davie  i  to  grow  grit  in  Courte.  The  Quene 
usit  him  for  Secretarie,  in  thingis  that  appertenit  to  hir 
secreit  effaires,  in  France  ^  or  ellis  quhair.  Gnt  men  maid  in 
Courte  unto  him,  and  thair  sutes  wer  the  better  heard.  Bot 
of  the  begynning  and  progress,  we  delay  now  forder  to  speik, 
NEviEDo>-E  ^^caus  his  end  will  requyre  the  descryptioune  of  the  whole : 
AUTHOR.  [And  referris  it  unto  suche,  as  God  sail  rayse  up  to  do  the 
same.]  ^ 

The  first  day  of  the  Generall  Assemblie,  the  Courtiouris  nor 
the  Lordis  that  dependit  upoun  the  Court,  presentit  nocht 
thame  selfis  in  the  sessioun  with  thair  Bretherin.  Wliairat 
monie  wondering,  ane  anceyant  and  honorable  man,  the  Laird 
of  Lundie,^  said,  "  Nay,  I  wonder  nocht  of  thair  present  ab- 
sence ;  but  I  wonder  that  at  our  last  Assemblie,  thai  drew 
thame  selfis  ane  pairt,  and  joynit  nocht  with  us,  but  drew  from 
us  some  of  our  mynisteris,  and  wylleit  thame  to  conclude  sik 
thingis  as  war  never  proponit  in  the  publick  Assemblie,  [quhilk 
apperis  to  me  to  be  a  tiling]^  verrie  prejudiciall  to  the  libertie  of 
the  Kirk.  And,  thairfoir,  my  jugement  is,  that  thai  salbe  in- 
formit  of  this  oifence,  quhilk  the  whole  Bretherin  haif  con- 
saveit  of  thair  former  fait ;  humblie  requyring  thame,  that  gif 
thai  be  Bretherin,  thai  will  assist  thair  Bretherin  with  thair 
presence  and  counsall,  for  we  had  nevir  grytter  neid.  And  gif 
thai  be  myndit  to  fall  back  from  us,  it  wer  better  we  knaw  it 
now  than  afterward."  Thairto  aggreyit  the  whole  Assemblie, 
and  gaif  commissioun   to   certene    Bretherin   to  signify   the 

1  In  :MS.  G,  "  began  one  Davie,  ane  wes  xevir  done  be  this  Author  ;"  a 

Italiane."     That  is  David  Riccio  :    see  i-emark,  which  was  probably  added  after 

article  in  the  Appendix  to  this  volume.  Knox's  death  by  his  Secretary,  or  the 

*  The  words  "in  France,"  are  omitted  person  who  transcribed  this  portion  of 

in  MS.  1566 ;  and  "  effaires,"  is  written  the  MS.  ^ 

"  laires."  *  Walter  Lundie  or  Lundin  of  Lundie, 

"  The  woixls  enclosed  witliin  brackets,  in  Fife.     The  name  of  the  "  Laii-d  of 

are  supplied  from  MS.  G.     They  occur  Lundie"  occui-s  very  frequently  in  the 

in  MS.  L  4,  but  neither  in  L  3,  or  in  Book  of  the  Kirk. 

MS.  1566.     In  place  of  this,  on  the  mar-  '  The  words  within  brackets  are  omit- 

gin  of  that  MS.  we  find,  as  above,  "  Tins  ted  in  ^IS.  1566. 


low.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  423 

mynclis  of  the  Assemblic  to  the  Lordis  ;  qiihilk  wes  done  that 
same  day  efter  noon.^ 

The  Courteouris  at  first  semeit  nocht  a  lyttill  offendit,  that 
thay  sould  be  as  it  wer  suspectit  of  defectioun  :  yit,  nevirthe- 
les,  upoun  the  morrow,  thai  joynit  Avith  the  Assemblie,  and  come 
into  it :  But  thai  drew  tliame  selfis,  lyke  as  thai  did  befoir, 
apairt,  and  enterit  the  Inner  Counsell-house.  Thair  wes  the 
Dukis  Grace,  tlie  Erles  Argyle,  Murray,  Mortoun,  Grlencarne, 
Mercliell,  Rothes  ;  the  Maister  of  Maxwell,  Secretour  Lething- 
toun,  the  Justice  Clark,  the  Clark  of  Register,  and  the  Con- 
trollour,  the  Laird  of  Pittarro. 

Efter  a  lyttill  consultatioun,  thai  direct  ane  messing'er,  Mr. 
George  Hay,^  than  callit  the  Minister  of  the  Court,  requyring- 
the  Superintendantis,  and  sum  of  the  leirnit  ministeris,  to 
confer  with  thame.  The  Assemblie  ansuerit,  "  That  thai  con- 
venit  to  delyberat  upoun  the  commoun  eifairis  of  the  Kirk  ; 
and,  thairfoir,  that  thay  could  nocht  lack  thair  Superintendantis 
and  cheif  ministeris,  whose  jugementis  wer  so  necessarie,  that 
without  thame  the  rest  sould  sit  as  it  wer  idill ;  and  thairfoir 
willand  thame  (as  of  befoir)  that  gif  thay  acknawlege  thame 
selfis  memberis  of  the  Kirk,  that  thai  wald  joyne  with  the 
Bretherin,  and  propone  in  publict  sik  thingis  as  thai  pleissit ; 
and  so  thai  sould  haif  the  assistance  of  the  whole  in  all  thingis 
that  mycht  stand  to  Godis  commandiment.  But  to  send  from 
thame  selfis  a  jiortioun  of  thair  companie,  thai  understand 
that  thairof  hurt  and  sclander  mycht  aryse,  rather  than  anie 
proffeit  or  conforte  to  the  Kirk  :    for  thay  feirit,  that  all  men 

1  According  to  Calderwood,  on  the  26tli  downside,  war  sent  to  tlie  Lords  of  Se- 

Jmic  1564,  "  The  Laird  of  Lundie,  and  creit  Counsel!,  to  requist  thair  Honours 

tlieSuperintendentof  Lowthian,  war  ap-  to  assist  the  Assemblie  v^ith  thair  pre- 

pouited  to  request  the  Lords  of  Secreit  sence  and  counsell." 
Counsell  to  assist  the  Assemblie  with  ^  ggg  QQ^e  2,  page  352.     In  the  pro 

thair  presence  and  counsell."     In  like  ceedings  of  the  General  Assembly,  oOth 

manner,  at  the  next  General  Assembly,  December   15G3,    Mr.   George    Hay  is 

on  the  25th  December,  "  Wilham  Wal-  styled  "  ilinist-cr  of  the   Privie  Couu- 

lace  of  Carnell,  and  Andrew  Ker  of  Fa-  sell." 


424  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

sould  noclit  stand  content  with  the  conclusioun,  whair  the  con- 
ference and  ressounis  wer  hard  but  of  a  few." 

This  ansuer  wes  nocht  giffin  without  cause;  for  no  small 
travell  wes  maid,  to  haif  drawin  sum  mynisteris  to  the  fac- 
tioun  of  the  Courtiouris,  and  to  haif  sustenit  thair  argumentis 
and  opiniounis.  But  whan  it  wes  persaifit  be  the  moist  poli- 
tick amangis  tliame,  that  thai  could  not  prevaill  be  that  meanes, 
thai  proponeit  the  matter  in  uther  termis,  purging  thame 
selfis,  first,  that  thai  nevir  ment  to  devyde^  thame  selfis  from 
the  sociatie  of  thair  bretherin ;  but,  because  thai  had  cer- 
tane  heidis  to  confer  with  certane  ministeris ;  thairfoir,  for 
avoyding  of  confusioun,  thai  tliocht  it  mair  expedient  to  haif 
the  conference  befoir  a  few,  rather  than  in  the  publict  au- 
dience. But  the  Assemblies  did  still  reply,  "  That  secreit  con- 
ference wald  thay  nocht  admit  in  those  heidis  that  sould  be 
concludit  be  generall  voit."  The  Lordis  promeissit,  "  That  no 
conclusioun  sould  be  taikin,  nether  yit  voit  requyreit,  till  that 
bayth  the  pro2)ositiounis  and  the  ressounis  sould  be  heard,  and 
considderit  of  the  whole  bodie."  And  upoun  that  conditioun 
wer  directit  unto  thame,  Avith  expressit  chairgc  to  conclude 
no  thing  without  the  knawledge  3  and  advyse  of  the  Assemblie, 
the  Laird  of  Dun,  Superintendant  of  Anguss,  the  Superinten- 
dantis  of  Lothyane  and  Fyife,^  Mr.  John  Row,  Mr.  John 
Craig,  Williame  Crystisoune,  Mr.  David  Lyndesay,  mynisteris, 
Avith  the  Rectour  of  Sanctandrois,  ^  and  Mr.  George  Hay ;  the 
Superintendant  of  Glasgow,  Mr.  Johne  Willok,  wes  Modera- 
tour,  and  Johne  Knox  Avaitit  upoun  the  Scrybe.  And  so  thay 
wer  appoyntit  to  sit  with  the  Bretherin.  And  that  because 
the  principall  compleint  tuychit^  Johne  Knox,  he  wes  also 
callit  for. 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  to  separate."  ^  In  MS.  G,  "  acknawlege." 

2  "  Assemblie"  is  usually  written  '-as-  ■•  John  Erskine  of  Dun,  Jolin  Spottis- 
semble;"  but,  as  already  remarked,  the  wood,  and  John  Wynrame. 
orthography  in  this  portion  of  the  MS.  is  ^  John  Douglas. 

very  peculiar,  and  requires  correction.  "  In  MS.  G,  "  concernit." 


1564.   .  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  425 

Secretour  Letliiiigtoiin  began  the  harangue,^  which  contenit  toun^s'ha. 
tliese  heidis :  First,  How  much  we  wer  addettit  unto  God,  be  ^itB^A'ssKM. 
whois  providence  we  had  libertie  of  rcligioun  under  the  Quenis  jun;/i564 
Majestic,  albeit  that  sche  wes  nocht  pcrsuadeit  in  the  same :  z"-"'!'^- 
Secoundlie,  How  necessarie  ane  thing  it  wes  that  the  Quenis 
Majestic,  be  all  gude  offices,  (so  spak  he,)  of  the  Kirk,  and  of  the 
mynisteris  principally,  sould  be  retenit  in  that  constant  opi- 
nioun,  that  thai  unfeinzeitlie  favourit  hir  advancement,  and 
procureit  liir  subjectis  to  haif  ane  gude  opinioun  of  hir : 
And,  last.  How  daingerous  ane  thing  it  was,  that  mynisteris 
sould  be  noittit  ane  to  disagree  from  ane  uther,  in  form  of 
prayer  for  hir  Majestic,  or  in  doctrine  conserning  obedience  to 
hir  Majesties  authoritie  :  "  And  in  tliese  two  last  heidis,  (said 
he,)  we  desyre  you  all  to  be  circumspect ;  but  especially  we 
maun  craif  of  you  our  brother,  Johne  Knox,  to  moderat  your 
selff,  als  weall  in  form  of  praying  for  the  Quenis  Majestic,  as  in 
doctrine  that  ye  propone  tuyching  hir  estait  and  obedience. 
Neither  sail  ye  tak  this,  (said  he,)  as  spokin  to  your  reproche, 
quia  nevus"^  interdum  in  corpor^e pulchro,  but  becaus  that  otheris, 
by  your  example,  may  imitate  the  lyke  libertie,  albeit  nocht 
with  the  same  modestie  and  foir«ycht;  and  what  opinioun  may 
ingedder^  in  the  peopillis  heidis,  wyse  men  do  forsee." 

The  said  Johne  prepairit  him  for  ansuer,  as  followis  :  "  Gif 
such  as  feir  God  haif  occasioune  to  praise  him,  that  becaus 
that  idolatrie  is  maintenit,  the  servandis  of  God  dispyseit, 
wyckit  men  placeit  agane  in  honour  and  authoritie,  (Mr.  Henrie 
Synclair  wes  of  schort  tyme  befoir  maid  President,^  who  be- 
foir  durst  nocht  haif  syttin  in  jugement ;)  and,  finalie,  (said 
he,)  gif  we  audit  to  prais  God  becaus  that  vice  and  impyet- 

^  In  MS.  G,  this  marginal  note  stands :  -  In  MS.  G,  "  quia  mens." 

"  Letbingtonis  harrange  in  the  Assem-  ^  In  MS.  G,  "  ingender." 

bly  in  1584;"  a  mistake  in  the  date  *  Sinclair  had  been  appointed  Presi- 

oiily  worthy  of  notice,  as  aifording  an  dent  of  the  Court  of  Session  in  1559: 

indication  of  the  time  wlien  the  MS.  it-  see  page  398,  note  1. 
self  was  transcribed. 


426  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

tie  ovel•flo^yetll  this  hoill  E,ealme  without  punischment,  than 
haif  Ave  occasioun  to  rejoise  and  to  prayse^  God  :  But  gif  those 
and  the  lyke  use  to  provoik  Godis  vengeance  aganis  Realmis 
and  Natiounis,  than,  in  my  jugement,  the  godlie  within  Scot- 
land aucht  to  lament  and  murne ;  and  so  to  prevent  Goddis 
jugementis,  leist  that  he,  fynding  all  in  a  lyke  security,  ^ 
stryke  in  his  hot  indignatioun,  begynning  [perchance]  at  sik 
as  think  thai  offend  nocht." 

"  That  is  ane  heid,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  whairinto  ye  and  I 
nevir  aggreyit ;  for  how  ar  ye  abill  to  prove  that  evir  God 
straik  or  plaigit  ane  natioun  or  peopill  for  the  iniquitie  of 
thair  Prince,  gif  that  thame  selfis  levit  godlie?" 

"  I  lukeit,"  said  he,  "  my  Lord,  to  haif  audience,  till  that  I 
had  absolvit  the  uther  two  pairtis ;  but  seing  it  pleissis  your 
Lordship  to  cut  me  off  befoir  the  myddis,  I  will  ansuer  to 
your  questioun.  The  Scriptour  of  God  teiohis  me,  that  Jeru- 
salem and  Juda  wes  punischit  for  the  sinne  of  Manasses  ;  and 
gif  ye  will  allege,  that  thai  wer  punischit  because  that  thai 
wer  Avyckit,  and  offendit  with  thair  King,  and  nocht  because 
thair  King  wes  Avj^ckit  ;  I  ansuer,  that  albeit  the  Spreit  of 
God  makis  for  me,  saying  in  expressit  wordis,  '  For  the  syn  of 
Manasses,'  yit  will  I  nocht  be  so  obstinat  as  to  lay  the  whole 
syn,  and  plaigis  that  thairof  followit,  upoun  the  King,  and  ut- 
terlie  absolve  the  peopill  ;  but  I  will  grant  with  you,  that  the 
whole  peopill  offendit  with  the  King :  but  how,  and  in  what 
fassioun,  I  feir  that  ye  and  I  sail  nocht  agiie.  I  doute  nocht 
but  the  grit  multitude  accumpanit  him  in  all  abhominatiounis 
quhilk  he  did  ;  for  idolatrie,  and  ane  fals  religioun  haith  evir 
bene,  is,  and  wilbe  plesing  to  the  moist  pairt  of  men.  But  to 
affirm  that  all  Juda  committit  realie  the  actis  of  his  impyet- 
tie,  is  but  to  affirm  that  quhilk  nether  lies  certentie,  nor  yit 
appeirence  of  ane  treuth  :  for  who  can  think  it  to  be  possible, 
that  all  those  of  Jerusalem  sould  so  schoirtlie  turn  to  externall 

'  111  MS.  loHti,  "  ;uifl  pravf-it."  -  In  M.S.  lo6<j,  '•  l^ke  secreit." 


1.564.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  427 

idolatrie,  considdering  the  notabill  reformatioun  laitlie  befoir  33''j'^"'^'''' 
had  in  the  days  of  Ezechias  ?  But  yit,  says  the  text,  '  Ma- 
iiasses  maid  Juda  and  the  inliabitantis  of  Jerusalem  to  erre.' 
True  it  is  ;  for  the  one  pairt,  as  I  haif  said,  willinglie  followit 
him  in  his  idolatrie,  and  the  other,  be  ressoune  of  his  autho- 
ritie,  sufferit  him  to  fyle  Jerusalem,  and  the  tempill  of  God, 
with  all  abhominatiounis,  and  so  wcr  thai  all  cryminall  for  his 
sin  ;  the  one  be  act  and  deid,  the  uther  be  suifering-  and  per- 
missioiin :  even  as  hoill  Scotland  is  guiltie  this  day  of  the 
Quenis  idolatrie,  and  ye,  my  Lordis,  speciallie  above  all  utheris." 

"  Weill,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  that  is  the  cheif  held  quhairin 
wo  nevir  aggreit ;  but  of  that  we  sail  speik  heirefter.  What 
will  ye  say  as  tuyching  the  moveing  of  the  peopill  to  haif  ane 
gude  opinioun  of  the  Quenis  Majestic,  and  as  concerning  obe- 
dience to  be  gevin  to  liir  authoritie,  as  also  of  the  form  of  the 
prayer  quliilk  commounlie  ye  use,"  &e. 

"  My  Lord,"  said  he,  "  moir  eirnistlie  to  move  the  peopill, 
or  yit  utherwyse  to  pray  than  heirtofoir  I  haif  done,  a  gude 
conscience  will  nocht  suffer  me ;  for  He  who  knawis  the  se- 
creittis  of  hertis,  knawis  that  privilie  and  publictlie  I  haif 
callit  to  God  for  hir  conversioun,  and  haif  willit  the  peopill  to 
do  the  same,  schawing  thame  the  dangerous  estait  quhairin 
nocht  onelie  sche  hir  self  standis,  but  also  the  haill  Realme,  be 
the  ressoun  of  hir  indureit  blindnes,"  &c. 

"  That  is  it,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  whairin  we  find  giyttest 
fait.  Your  extremitie  aganis  hir  Messe,  in  particular,  passis 
m.eassour.  Ye  call  hir  ane  slaif  to  Sathan  ;  ye  affirme  that 
Godis  vengeance  liingis  oure  the  Realme,  be  ressoune  of  liir 
impietie  ;2  and  what  is  this  ellis  but  to  rouse  up  the  liairt  of 
the  peojjill  aganis  hir  Majestic,  and  aganis  thame  that  serve 
hir." 

'    That    is,   Para/ij^omena,  a   name  histoncal  records  belonging  to  the  Old 

given  by  the  Alexandrian  translators  to  Testament  Canon.     (Ivitto's  Biblical  Cy- 

the  two  Books  of  Chronicles,  as  t/dn^js  clopedia.) 
nmitte'l,  or  supplementary  to  the  other  "  In  IMS.  G,  "  iniquity." 


THK    SIR 
JIAXVV 

WORDS  I 


428  THE  HISTORY  OF  Buok  IV. 

Thair  wes  heard  ane  exclamatioun  of  tlie  rest  of  the  flat- 
teraris,  that  sick  extremittie  could  nocht  profRt.  The  Maister 
%'J^  of  Maxwell  said  in  plane  wordis,  "  Gif  I  war  in  the  Quenis 
Majesties  place,  I  wald  nocht  suifer  sick  thingis  as  I  heir." 

"  Gif  the  wordis  of  prechouris,"  said  Johne  Knox,  "  sail  al- 
wayis  be  rest  to  the  worst  pairt,  than  will  it  be  hard  to  speik 
onie  thing  so  circuraspectlie,  provyded  that  the  treuth  be 
spokin,  quhilk  sail  not  eschape  the  censure  of  the  calamniatour. 
The  moist  vehement,  and,  as  ye  speak,  excessive  maneir  of 
prayer  that  I  use  in  publict  is  this,  '  0  Lord,  gif  thy  plesour 
be,  purge  the  hairt  of  the  Quenis  Majestic  from  the  venoum  of 
idolatrie,  and  deliver  hir  from  the  boundage  and  thraldom  of 
Sathan,  in  the  quhilk  sche  lies  bene  brocht  up,  and  yit  re- 
manis,  for  the  lack  of  true  doctrine ;  and  lat  hir  see,  be  the  illu- 
minatioun  of  thy  Holie  Spreit,  that  thair  is  no  meane  to  pleis 
thee  but  be  Jesus  Christ  thy  onlie  Son,  and  that  Jesus  Christ 
can  nocht  be  found  but  in  thy  holie  word,  nor  yit  ressavit  but 
as  it  prescrybeis  ;  Avhich  is,  to  renunce  our  awin  wittis,  and  pre- 
consavit  opinioun,  and  worschip  thee  as  thou  commandis  ;  that 
in  sa  doing  sche  may  avoid  that  eternall  dampnatioun  quhilk 
abydeis  all  obstinat  and  impenitent  unto  the  end ;  and  that 
this  poor  Realme  may  also  eschaip  that  plaig  and  vengeance 
quhilk  inevitablie  followis  idolatrie,  menteinit  aganis  thy  mani- 
fest worde,  and  the  opin  lycht  thairof '  This,  (said  he,)  is  the 
form  of  my  commoun  prayer,  as  3^our  selfRs  can  witnes.  Now, 
what  is  worthie  reprehensioun  in  it  I  wald  heir?" 

"  Thair  ar  three  thingis,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  that  nevir 
lykeit  unto  me.  And  the  first  is,  Ye  pray  for  the  Quenis  Ma- 
jestic with  ane  conditioun,  saying,  '  Illuminat  hir  hairt,  gif 
thy  gude  plesour  be  ;'  quhairby  it  may  appeir,  that  ye  doute  of 
hir  conversioun.     Whair  haif  ye  the  example  of  sik  prayer?" 

"  "Whairsoevir  the  exampillis  are,"  said  the  utlier,  "  I  am 
assureit  of  the  reule,  whilk  is  this,  '  Gif  we  sail  ask  onie  thing- 
according  to  his  will,  he  sail  heir  us  ;'  and  our  Maister,  Chryst 


1564.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  429 

Jesus,  commandit  us  to  pray  unto  our  Father,  '  Thy  will  be 
done.'" 

"  But/'  said  Lethingtoun,  "  wliair  evir  find  ye  onie  of  the 
Propheitis  so  to  liaif  prayit  ?" 

"  It  sufficeth  me,"  said  the  uther,  "  ray  Lord,  that  the  Mais- 
ter  and  teicheare  of  bayth  Prophettis  and  Appossillis  hes 
taucht  me  so  to  pray." 

"  But  in  so  doing,"  said  he,  "  ye  put  ane  doute  in  the 
peopillis  heid  of  hir  conversioun."! 

"  Nocht  I,  my  Lord,"  said  the  uther,  "  but  hir  awin  obstinat 
rebellioune  causis  mo  than  me  to  doute  of  hir  conversioun." 

"  Wliairinto,"  said  he,  "  rebellis  sche  aganis  God  ?" 

"  In  all  the  actiounis  of  hir  l}^e,"  said  he,  "  but  in  thir 
two  lieidis  especiallie  ;  former.  That  sche  will  nocht  heir  the 
preiching  of  the  blissit  evangill  of  Jesus  Chryst ;  and  secound- 
lie,  That  sche  menteinis  that  idoll,  the  Messe." 

"  Sche  thinkis  nocht  that  rebellioune,"  said  Lethingtoun, 
"  but  goode  religion." 

"  So  thocht  thai,"  said  the  uther,  "  that  sumtymes  oiferit 
thair  childerin  unto  Moloch,  and  yit  the  Spreit  of  God 
affirmeis  that  thai  offerit  thame  unto  devillis,  and  nocht  unto 
God.  And  this  day  the  Turkis  thinkis  to  haif  ane  better  reli- 
gioune  than  the  Papistis  haif;  and  yit,  I  think,  ye  will  excuse 
nether  of  thame  boith  from  committing  rebellioun  aganis  God : 
nether  yit  justlie  can  ye  do  the  Queue,  onles  that  ye  will  mak 
God  to  be  parcyall." 

"  But  yit,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  why  pray  ye  nocht  for  hir 
without  moving  onie  doute?" 

"  Becaus,"  said  the  uther,  "  I  haif  leirnit  to  pray  in  faith. 
Now  Faith,  ye  know,  dependis  upoun  the  wordis  of  God,  and 
so  it  is  that  the  word  teichis  me,  that  prayeris  protfettis  the 
sonis  and  dochteris  of  Godis  electioun,  of  which  noumer, 
quhether  sche  be  ane  or  nocht,  I  haif  just  cause  to  doute ; 

'  In  MS.  1566,  "  conversatioun." 


430  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

and,  thairfoir,  I  pray  God  "  illuminat  hir  liairt,  gif  liis  gude 
plesour  he.'" 

"  But  jit,"  said  Letliingtoun,  "  ye  can  jDroduce  tlie  exampill 
of  none  that  so  lies  prayit  befoir  yon/' 

"  Thairto  I  half  alreddy  ansuerit/'  said  Joline  Knox  ;  "  but 
yit  for  farther  declaratioun,  I  will  demand  ane  questioun, 
quhilk  is  this,  Quhider  gif  ye  think  that  the  Appossillis  prayit 
thame  selves  as  thai  commandit  utheris  to  pray." 

"  AVho  douttis  of  that?"  said  the  haill  companie  that  wer 
present. 

"  Weill  than,"  said  Johne  Knox,  "  I  am  assureit  that  Peter 
said  thir  wordis  to  Symoun  Magus,  '  Repent  thairfoir  of  this 
thy  AY^'^ckitness,  and  pray  to  God,  that  gif  it  be  possible  the 
thought  of  your  hairt  may  be  forgevin  thee.'  Heir  we  may 
cleirlie  see  that  Peter  joynes  ane  conditioun  with  his  com- 
mandiment.  That  Symoun  sould  repent  and  pray,  to  wit,  gif  it 
wer  possible  that  his  sin  mycht  be  forgevin  ;  for  he  wes  nocht 
ignorant  that  sum  synnis  wer  unto  the  deith,  and  so  Avithout 
all  houpe  of  repentenee  or  remissioun.  And  think  ye  nocht, 
my  Lord  Secretar,  (said  he,)  but  the  same  doute  may  tuich 
my  hairt,  as  tuyching  the  Quenis  conversioun,  that  then 
tuiched  the  hairt  of  the  Appossill  ?" 

"  I  wald  nevir,"  said  Letliingtoun,  "  heir  you  or  onie  uther 
call  that  in  doubt." 

"  But  your  will,"  said  the  uther,  "  is  no  assurance  to  my  con- 
science :  And  to  speik  frelie,  my  Lord,  I  wonder  gif  ye  your 
self  doute  nocht  of  the  Quenis  conversioun ;  for  more  evident 
signes  of  induratioun  liaif  appeirit,  and  still  do  appeir  in  hir, 
than  Peter  outwartlie  could-  haif  espyit  in  Symoun  Magus. 
For  albeit  sum  tymes  he  wes  ane  sorcerar,  yit  joynit  he  with 
the  Appossillis,  belevit,  and  wes  bapteissit ;  and  albeit  that  the 
venome  of  avarice  remaneit  in  his  hairt,  and  that  he  wald 
haif  bocht  the  Holie  Goist,  yit  when  he  heard  the  feirfull 
tlireitnyngis  of  God  pronunceand  aganis  him,  he  trymbillitt, 


1564.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  431 

desyreit  the  assistance  of  the  prayeris  of  the  Appossilis,  and 
so  humblit  him  self,  so  far  as  the  jugement  of  man  could 
perss,  lyke  ane  true  penitent,  and  yit  Ave  see  that  Peter  douttis 
of  his  conversioun.  [Quhy  then  may  not  all  the  godly  justly 
doubt  of  the  conversiouni]  of  the  Queue,  wha  hes  usit  idolatrie, 
quhilk  is  no  less  odious  in  the  sicht  of  God  than  is  the  other 
and  still  continewis  in  the  same,  yea,  that  dispyseis  all  threit- 
nyngis,  and  refuisses  all  godlie  admonitiounis  ? " 

"  Quhy  say  ye  that  sche  refuisses  admonitioun  ?"  said  Le- 
thingtoun.     "  She  will  glaidlie  heir  ony  man." 

"  But  what  obedience,"  said  the  uther,  "  to  God  or  to  his 
worde,  ensewis  of  all  that  is  spokin  iihto  hir  ?  Or  when  sail 
sche  be  sene  to  gif  hir  presence  to  the  publict  preiching  ?" 

"  I  think  nevir,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  so  lang  as  sche  is  thus 
intreittit." 

"  And  so  lang,"  said  the  uther,  "  ye  and  all  utheris  maun 
be  content  that  I  pray  so  as  I  may  be  assureit  to  be  heard  of 
my  God,  that  his  gude  Avill  may  be  done,  ether  in  making  hir 
comfortable  to  his  Kirk,  or  gif  that  he  hes  appoyntit  hir  to  be 
ane  scurge  to  the  same,  that  Ave  may  haif  patience,  and  sche 
may  be  brydellit." 

"  Weill,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  lat  us  cum  to  the  Secound 
Heid.  "Whair  find  ye  that  the  Scriptour  callis  onie  the  bound 
slaiffis  to  Satlian  ?  or  that  the  Propheittis  of  God  speik  so  irre- 
verentlie  of  kingis  and  princes  ? " 

"  The  Scriptour,"  said  Johne  Knox,  "  sayis,  that  '  be  natour 
we  are  all  the  soneis  of  wraith.'  Our  Maister,  Chryst  Jesus, 
affirmes,  '  that  sik  as  do  sin  ar  servandis  to  sin,'  and  that  it  is 
the  onlie  Son  of  God  that  settis  men  at  freedome.  Now  what 
diiference  thair  is  betwix  the  sonnis  of  wraith,  and  the  ser- 
vandis of  sin,  and  the  slaiffis  to  the  devill,  I  understand 
nocht,  except  I  be  taught ;  and  gif  the  scharpnes  of  the  terme 
offendit  you,  I  haif  nocht  inventit  that  phrase  of  speich,  but 

'  These  words  are  omitted  in  MS.  1560. 


432  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

liaif  leiriiit  it  out  of  Grodis  Scriptour ;  for  tliose  wordis  I  find 
spolvin  unto  Paul,  '  Behauld,  I  send  thee  to  the  Gentillis,  to 
oppin  thair  eyes,  that  thay  may  turn  from  darknes  to  lycht, 
and  from  the  power  of  Sathan  unto  God.'  Mark  thir  wordis, 
my  Lord,  and  sture  nocht  at  the  speiking  of  the  Holie  Goist. 
And  the  same  Ajjostle  Avryting  to  his  scoller  Timotheus,  says, 
'  Instruct  with  meiknes  those  that  ar  contrarie  myndit,  gif 
that  God  at  onie  tyme  will  gif  thame  repentence,  that  thay 
may  knaw  the  treuth,  and  that  thay  may  cum  to  amendment, 
out  of  the  snair  of  the  Devill,  quhilk  ar  tackin  of  him  at  his 
will.'  Gif  your  Lordschip  rychtlie  considder  these  sentences, 
ye  sail  nocht  onlie  find  my  wordis  to  be  the  wordis  of  the 
Holie  Goist,  but  also  the  conditioune  quhilk  I  use  to  adde,  to 
haif  the  assurance  of  Godis  Scriptouris." 

"  But  thay  spak  nothing  aganis  kingis  in  especiall,"  said 
Lethingtoun,  ''  and  yit  your  continewall  crying  is,  '  The  Quenis 
Idolatrie,  the  Quenis  Messe,  Avill  provoke  Godis  vengeance.'" 

"  In  the  former  sentences,"  said  the  utlier,  "  I  heir  nocht 
Kingis  and  Quenis  excepit,  but  all  unfaithfull  ar  pronunced  to 
stand  in  one  rank,  and  to  be  in  bondage  to  ane  tyrant,  the 
Devill.  But  belyke,  my  Lord,  ye  lyttill  regaird  the  estait 
whairin  thay  stand,  when  ye  wald  haif  thame  so  flatterit,  that 
the  daingour  thairfoir  sould  neither  be  knawin,  neither  yit 
declareit  to  the  poore  peopill." 

"  Quhair  will  ye  find,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  that  onie  of  the 
Propheittis  did  so  intreat  Kingis  and  Quenis,  reuleris  or  ma- 
gistratis  ?" 

"  In  mo  placeis  than  ane,"  said  the  uther.  "  Achab  was 
ane  King,  and  Jesabell  wes  ane  Queue,  and  yit  what  the  Pro- 
phet Helias  said  to  the  one  and  to  the  uther,  I  suppois  ye  be 
nocht  ignorant?" 

"  That  wes  nocht  cryit  out  befoir  the  peopill,"  said  Lething- 
toun, "  to  mak  thame  odious  unto  thair  subjectis." 

"  That  Helias  said,  '  Doggis  sail  lyck  the  blude  of  Achab,' " 


15G4.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  433 

said  Jolinc  Knox,  "  '  and  cat  tlic  flesche  of  Jesabell/  the  Scrip- 
touris  assuris  me  ;  but  that  it  wes  whisperit  in  thair  awin  eir, 
or  in  ane  cornar,  I  reid  nocht.  But  the  plane  contrair  ap- 
peiris  to  me,  quhilk  is,  that  boith  the  Peopill  and  the  Court 
understude  weill  eneuch  what  the  Propheit  had  promeissit  ;l 
for  so  witnessit  Jehu,  efter  that  Godis  vengeance  had  strickin 
Jesabell." 

"  Thay  wer  singular  motiounis  of  the  Spreit  of  God,"  said 
Lethingtoun,  "  and  aj^pertene  nothing  to  this  our  aige." 

"  Then  lies  the  Scriptour  far  dissavit  me,"  said  the  uther  ; 
"  for  Sanct  Paule  teichis  me,  that  '  Whatsoevir  is  wryttin 
within  the  Holie  Scriptouris,  the  same  is  writtin  for  our  in- 
structioun.'  And  my  Maister  said,  that  '  Everie  leirnit  and 
wjdse  scribe  bringis  furth  his  tresour,  baith  thingis  auld  and 
thingis  new.'  And  the  Propheit  Jeremye  affirmis,  that  '  Everie 
realme  and  everie  cytie  that  lykwyse  offendis,  as  then  did 
Jerusalem,  sould  lykewyse  be  punischit/  "Why  then  that  the 
factis  of  the  ancient  Propheittis,  and  the  feirfull  jugementis  of 
God  executed  befoir  us  upoun  the  disobedient,  appertene  nocht 
unto  this  our  aige,  I  neither  see  nor  yit  can  understand.  But 
now,  to  put  end  to  this  held,  my  Lord,  (said  he,)  the  Pro- 
pheittis of  God  hes  nocht  spairit  to  rebuke  wickit  kingis,  als- 
Weill  in  thair  face  as  befoir  the  pepill  and  subjectis.  Elischa  2 
feirit  nocht  to  say  to  king  Jehoram,  '  Wliat  haif  I  to  do  with 
thee  ?  Get  thee  to  the  Propheittis  of  thy  [Father,  and  to  the 
Propheittis  of  thy]  Mother ;  for  as  the  Lord  of  Hostis  levis,  in 
quhose  sicht  I  stand,  gif  it  wer  nocht  that  I  regaird  the  pre- 
sens  of  Jehosaphat,  the  king  of  Juda,  I  wald  nocht  haif  luikit 
toward  thee,  nor  sene  thee.'  Plane  it  is,  that  the  Proj)heitt  wes 
ane  subject  in  the  kingdom  of  Israeli,  and  yit  how  little  reve- 
rence he  gevis  to  the  King,  we  heir.  Jeremye  the  Propheit 
wes  commandit  to  cry  to  the  King  and  to  the  Quene,  and  to 
say,  '  Behaif  your  selfis  lawlie  ;  execute  justice  and  jugement ; 

1  In  IMS.  G,  "  pronun.-it."  -  In  MS.  G,  "  Helisias." 

VOL.  II.  2  E 


434  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

or  ellis  your  carcageis  salbe  cassin  to  the  heit  of  the  day,  and 
unto  the  froist  of  the  nicht/  Unto  Cononias,  Sallum,  and 
Zedechias,  he  speikis  in  speciall,  and  schawls  into  tham,  in  his 
puhlict  sermoundis  thair  misserable  endis ;  and  thairfoir  ye 
aucht  nocht  to  think  it  strainge,  my  Lord,  (said  he,)  albeit  that 
the  sen'^andis  of  God  mark  the  vice^  of  Kingis  and  Quenis, 
e^nn  als  weill  as  of  uther  offendouris,  and  that  because  thair 
synnis  be  moir  noisum  to  the  Commoumvelth,  than  ar  the 
synnis  of  inferiour  persounis/' 

The  moist  pairt  of  this  ressounyng,  Secretour  Lethingtoun 
leanit  upoun  the  Maister  of  Maxwellis  breist,  who  said,  "  I  am 
almoist  werie :  I  wald  that  sum  uther  wald  ressoun  in  the  chief 
heid,  quhilk  is  nocht  tuychit." 

Then  the  Erie  of  Mortoune,  Chancellour,  commandit  Mr. 
George  Hay  to  reassoun  aganis  Johne  Knox,  in  the  heid  of 
Obedience  dew  unto  Magistratis  ;  who  began  so  to  do.  Unto 
whom  Johne  Knox  said,  "  Brother,  that  ye  sail  ressoun  in  my 
contrair  I  am  weill  content,  because  I  know  you  boith  ane 
man  of  leirnyng  and  of  modestie :  but  that  ye  sail  oppone 
your  self  in  the  treuth  whairof,^  I  suppoise,  your  awin  con- 
science is  no  less  perswaded  than  is  mine,  I  can  nocht  weill 
approve  ;  for  I  wald  be  sorie  that  I  and  ye  suld  be  reputed  to 
ressoun  as  two  scolleris  of  Pythagoras,  to  schaw  the  quicknes 
of  our  ingyne,  as  it  wer  to  ressoune  on  boith  the  pairtis.  I 
protest  heir  befoir  God,  that  whatsoevir  I  sustene,  I  do  the 
same  of  conscience ;  yea,  I  dar  no  moir  sustene  ane  proposi- 
tioun  knawin  unto  my  self  untrew,  than  that  I  dar  teicli  false 
doctrine  in  the  publict  place :  And  thairfoir.  Brother,  gif  con- 
science move  you  to  oppone  your  self  to  that  doctrine,  whilk 
ye  half  heard  of  my  mouth  in  that  maitter,  do  it  bauldlie  :  it 
sail  nevir  offend  me.  But  that  ye  sail  be  found  to  oppone^ 
your  self  unto  me,  ye  being  perswaidit  in  the  same  treuthe,  I 

•  In  MS.  G,  "  tax  the  vices."  ^  In  MS.  1566,  "  oppone"  is  usually 

"  In  MS.  1566,  "  quhairfoir."  written  "  appone." 


15CA.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  435 

say  yit  agane,  it  pleisses  me  noclit ;  for  thairin  may  be  gritter 
inconvenient  tlian  either  ye  or  I  do  considder  for  the  present." 

The  said  Mr.  George  ansuerit,  "  That  I  wald  oppone  my  self 
unto  you  as  willing  to  impugn  or  confute  that  heid  of  doctrine, 
whilk  nocht  onlie  ye,  but  monie  utheris,  yea,  and  I  my  self  haif 
affirmit,  far  be  it  from  me  ;  for  so  sould  I  be  found  contrarious 
to  my  self  For  my  Lord  Secretour  knawis  my  jugement  in 
that  heid.'" 

"  Marye  I"  said  the  Secretour,  "ye  ar  the  weall  worst  of  the 
twa  ;  for  I  remember  weill  your  ressonyng  whan  the  Quene 
wes  in  Caryke.''^ 

"  Weill,"  said  Johne  Knox,  "  seing,  Brother,  that  God  hes 
maid  you  to  occujiy  the  chyre  of  verittie,  whairin,  I  assure, 
we  will  aggrie  in  all  principall  heidis  of  doctrine,  lat  it  nevir 
be  said  that  we  disaggrie  in  disputatioun."  Johne  Knox  wes 
moved  thus  to  speik,  because  he^  understood  moir  of  the  craft 
than  the  other  did. 

"  "WeilV  said  Lethingtoun,  "  I  am  sumwhat  better  pro- 
vydeit  in  this  last  heid,  then  I  wes  in  the  uther  twa.  Mr. 
Knox,  (said  he,)  yisterday  we  heard  your  jugement  upoun  the 
13  to  the  Romanis  ;  we  heard  the  mynde  of  the  Appossill  weill 
opened  ;  we  heard  the  causses  why  God  hes  establissed  Poweris 
upoun  the  earth ;  we  heard  the  necessitie  that  mankynde  hes 
of  the  same  ;  and  we  heard  the  deutie  of  Magistratis  suffi- 
cientlie  declareit :  But  in  two  thingis  I  wes  offendit,  and  I 
think  sum  mo  of  my  Lordis  that  than  wer  present.  The  ane 
was,  ye  maid  difference  betwix  the  ordinance  of  God  and  the 
persounis  that  wer  placeit  in  authoritie  ;  and  ye  affirmed,  that 
men  mycht  refuise^  the  persounis,  and  yit  nocht  to  offend 
againis  Godis  ordinance.  This  is  the  ane ;  the  uther  ye  had 
na  tyme  to  explane  ;  but  this  methocht  ye  menit,  that  sub- 
jectis  wer  nocht  bound  to  obey  thair  Princes  gif  thai  com- 

*  In  MS.  G,  "  I  remember  yit  our  res-  ^  In  MS.  1566,  "  because  thai." 

.souning  quhen  the  Quene  was  in  Car-  '  In  MS.  G,  "  micht  resist" 

rick." 


436  TFIK  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

mandit  unlauchfull  tliingis ;  but  that  thai  mycht  resist  thair 
Princes,  and  wer  nocht  ever  bound  to  suffer." 

"  In  verie  deid,"  said  the  uther,  "  ye  haif  rychtlie  bayth 
markit  my  wordis,  and  understand  my  mynd  ;  for  of  that  same 
jugement  I  haif  lang  bene,  and  so  yit  I  remane." 

"  How  will  ye  prove  your  divisioun  and  difference,"  said 
Lethingtoun,  "  and  that  the  persoun  placeit  in  authoritie  may 
be  resistit,  and  Godis  ordinance  nocht  transgressit,  seing  that 
the  Appossill  says,  '  He  that  resistis  [the  poweris,]  resisteth  the 
ordinance  of  God/" 

"  My  Lord,"  said  he,  "  the  plane  wordis  of  the  Appossill 
makis  the  difference,  and  the  factis  of  many  approved  be  God, 
prove  my  affirmative.  First,  The  Appossill  affirmis,  that  the 
■poweris  ar  ordanit  of  God,  [for  the  preservation  of  quyet  and 
peacebill  men,  and  for  the  punischment  of  malefactours ; 
quhairof  it  is  plane,  That  the  ordinance  of  God,]^  and  the 
power  giffin  unto  man,  is  one  thing,  and  the  persone  clad  with 
the  power  or  with  the  authoritie,  is  ane  uther ;  for  Godis  or- 
dinance is  the  conservatioun  of  mankynd,  the  punischment  of 
vyce,  the  raentenyng  of  vertew,  quhilk  is  in  it  self  holie,  just, 
constant,  stable,  and  perpetuall.  But  men  clad  with  the  au- 
thoritie, ar  commounlie  prophane  and  unjust ;  yea,  thai  ar  muta- 
bill  and  transitorie,  and  subject  to  corruptioun,  as  God  threit- 
neth  thame  be  his  Prophet  David,  saying,  '  I  haif  said.  Ye  ar 
godis,  and  everie  one  of  you  the  sones  of  the  Moist  Heichest ; 
but  ye  sail  die  as  men,  and  the  princes  sail  fall  like  utheris.' 
Heir  I  am  assureit,  that  persounis,  the  saule  and  bodie  of 
wyckit  Princes,  ar  threitnit  with  death :  I  think,  that  so  ye 
will  nocht  affirm  is  the  authoritie,  the  ordinance  and  the 
power,  whairwith  God  hes  indeuit  sik  persounis ;  for  as  I  haif 
said,  as  it  is  holie,  so  it  is  the  permanent  will  of  God.  And 
now,  my  Lord,  that  the  Prince  may  be  resistit,  and  yit  the  or- 
dinance of  God  nocht  violatit,  it  is  evident  ;  for  the  peopill  re- 

'  The  words  inclosed  within  brackets  arc  omitted  in  MS.  1.566. 


15G4.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  437 

sistit  Saule,  wlien  he  bad  sworne  be  tbe  laving  God  that  Jona- 
than sould  die.  Tbe  peopill,  (I  say,)  swair  in  the  contrair, 
and  delyverit  Jonathan,  so  that  ane  hair  of  his  heid  fell  noclit. 
Now,  Saule  wes  the  anoyntit  King,  and  thai  wer  bis  subjectis, 
and  yit  thai  so  resisted  him,  that  thai  maid  him  no  better 
than  niansworne." 

"  I  doute,''  said  Lethiugtoun,  "  if  in  so  doing  the  peopill  did 
Weill." 

"  The  Spreit  of  God,"  said  tbe  uther,  "  accuses  thame  nocbt 
of  onie  cryrae,  but  rather  praisses  thame,  and  dampnis  the 
King,  aisweill  for  his  foolish  vow  and  law  maid  without  God, 
as  for  his  crewell  mynd,  that  so  seveirlie  wald  baif  puniscbit 
ane  innocent  man.  But  heirin  I  sail  nocbt  stand :  this  that 
followis  sail  confirm  tbe  former.  This  same  Saule  commandit 
Abimelecb  and  the  Preistis  of  tbe  Lord  to  be  slane,  becaus 
thay  had  committit  tressoune,  as  he  allegit,  for  intercommun- 
ing  with  David  :  His  gaird  and  principall  servandis  walde 
nocbt  obey  bis  unjust  commandiment ;  but  Doeg  tbe  flafcterar 
put  tbe  Kingis  creweltie  to  executioun.  I  will  nocbt  ask  your 
jugement,  Whidder  that  the  servandis  of  the  King,  in  nocbt 
obeying  bis  commandiment,  resisted  God  or  nocbt  ?  or  whidder 
Doeg,  in  murthering  the  •  Preastis,  gaif  obedience  to  ane  just 
authoritie?  for  I  baif  the  Spreit  of  God,  speiking  be  the 
mouth  of  David,  to  assure  me  of  the  one  aisweill  as  of  tbe 
uther ;  for  be,  in  bis  5 2d  Psalme,  damjDnis  that  fact  as  ane 
moist  crewell  murtber  ;  and  aifirmis,  that  God  wald  punisch, 
nocbt  onlie  tbe  commander,  but  the  mercyles  executour. 
And  thairfoir,  I  conclude,  that  thai  who  ganestand  bis  com- 
mandiment, resistit  nocbt  tbe  ordinance  of  God. 

"  And  now,  my  Lord,  to  ansueir  to  tbe  place  of  the  Appos- 
sill,  who  affirmis,  '  That  such  as  resistis  the  Power,  resistis  tbe 
ordinance  of  God  ;'  I  say,  that  the  power  in  that  place  is  nocbt 
to  be  understande  of  tbe  unjuste  commandiment  of  men,  but 
of  the  just  power  whairwith   God  bes  armit  bis  Magistratis 


438  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

and  Lievtenentis  to  punisclie  sjn,  and  mentene  verteAv.  As  gif 
onie  man  sould  interpiyise  to  tak  fra  the  liandis  of  ane  laucli- 
ful  juge  ane  murderare,  ane  adulterar,  or  onie  [uther]  male- 
factour  that  be  Godis  law  deserved  deith,  this  same  man  re- 
sistit  Godis  ordinance,  and  procureit  to  him  self  vengeance 
and  dampnatioune,  because  that  he  stajit  Godis  sworde^  to 
stryke.  But  so  it  is  nocht,  gif  that  men  in  the  feir  of  God  op- 
pone  2  thame  selfis  to  tlie  furie  and  blynd  rage  of  Princes  ;  for 
so  thai  resist  nocht  God,  but  the  Devill,  who  abusis  the  swerd 
and  authoritie  of  God." 

"  I  understand  sufficientlie/'  said  Lethingtoun,  "  what  ye 
mene  ;  and  to  the  one  pairt  I  will  nocht  oppone^  my  self.  But 
I  doute  of  the  uther.  For  gif  the  Queue  wald  command  me  [to] 
slay  Johne  Knox,  because  sche  is  ofFendit  at  him,  I  wald  nocht 
obey  hir.  But,  and  sche  wald  command  utheris  to  do  it,  or 
yit  be  ane  collour  of  justice  tak  his  lyiFe  fra  him,  I  can  nocht 
tell  gif  I  be  found  to  defend  him  aganis  the  Quene  and  aganis 
hir  officiaris." 

"  Under  protestatioun,"  said  the  uther,  "  that  the  auditour 
think  nocht  that  I  seik  favouris  to  my  self/  I  say,  my  Lord, 
that  gif  ye  be  persuadeit  of  my  innocency,  and  gif  God  hes 
giffin  unto  you  sik  ane  power  and  credyt  as  mycht  deliver  me, 
and  yit  sufferit  me  to  perisch,  that  in  so  doing  ye  soulde  be 
cryminall  and  gyltie  of  my  blude." 

"  Prove  that,  and  win  the  play,"  said  Lethingtoun. 
"  Weill,  my  Lord,"  said  the  uther,  "  remember  your  promeis, 
and  I  sail  be  schoirt  of  my  probatioun.  The  Propheit  Jeremey 
wes  apprehendit  be  Preistis  and  Prophettis,  (who  wer  ane  pairt 
of  the  authoritie  within  Jerusalem,)  and  be  the  multitude  of 
the  peopill,  and  this  sentence  wes  pronunceit  aganis  him, 
'  Thou  sail  dey  the  deith ;  for  thou  hes  said.  This  hous  salbe 
lyk  Siloch,  and  this  cytie  salbe  desolat  without  ane  habitant/ 

'  In  MS.  1565,  "  Godis  worde."  *  In  MS.  G.  "  that  I  speik  in  favoiu-a 

-■  &  3  111  MS.  1566,  "  appone."  of  my  self." 


L'64.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  439 

The  Princes  lieiring  tlie  iiprore,  come  from  the  Kingis  hous, 
and  sit  doune  in  jugement  in  the  entrie  of  the  new  gait  of  the 
Lordis  hous,  and  thair  the  Preistis  and  the  Prophettis  befoir 
the  Princes,  and  befoir  all  the  peopill,  intendit  thair  accusa- 
tioun,  in  these  wordis,  *  This  man  is  worthie  to  dje,  for  he  hes 
propheissit  aganis  this  cytie,  as  your  eiris  haif  heard/  Jere- 
mey  ansuerit,  '  That  whatsoevir  he  had  spokin  proceidit  from 
God ;  and  thairfoir,  (said  he,)  as  for  me,  I  am  in  your  handis : 
do  with  me  as  ye  think  gude  and  rycht :  But  knaw  ye  for  cer- 
tane,  that  if  ye  put  me  to  deith,  ye  sail  surelie  bring  innocent 
blude  upoun  your  saulis,!  and  upoun  this  cytie,  and  upoun  the 
habitatiounis  2  thairof ;  for  of  treuth,  the  Lord  hes  send  me  unto 
you,  to  speik  all  these  wordis.'  Now,  my  Lord,  gif  the  Princes 
and  the  hole  peopill  sould  haif  bene  gyltie  of  the  Propheittis 
blude,  how  sail  ye  or  utheris  be  jugeit  innocent  befoir  God, 
gif  ye  sail  suffer  the  blude  of  sik  as  haif  nocht  deservit  deith 
to  be  sched,  when  that  ye  may  save  it  V 

"  The  cases  ar  nothing  lyke,"  said  Lethingtoun. 

"  And  I  wald  learn,"  said  the  uther,  "  whairin  the  dissymi- 
litude  standis." 

"  First,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  the  King  had  nocht  condamp- 
nit  him  to  the  deith.  And  nixt,  the  false  Propheittis  and  the 
Preistis  and  the  peopill  accuseit  him  without  ane  caus,  and 
thairfoir  thai  could  nocht  but  be  gyltie  of  his  blude." 

"  Nether  of  these,"  said  Johne  Knox,  "  fechtis  aganis  my 
argument ;  for  albeit  the  King  wes  nether  present,  nor  yit  had 
condampnit  him,  yit  wer  the  princes  and  cheif  counsallouris 
thair  sytting  in  jugement,  who  presentit  the  Kingis  persoune 
and  authoritie,  heiring  the  accusatioune  laid  unto  the  chairge 
off  the  Propheit ;  and  thairfoir  he  foirwairnis  thame  of  the 
dainger,  as  befoir  I  said,  to  wit,  that  in  case  he  soulde  be  con- 
dampnit, and  so  put  to  deith,  that  the  King,  the  Counsell,  and 
the  whole  cytie  of  Jerusalem,   soulde  be  gyltie  of  his  blude, 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  yom-jjelvcs."  -  In  MS.  G,  "  inhabitauts." 


440  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

becaus  he  had  conimittit  no  ciyme  worthy  of  deith.  And  gif 
ye  think,  that  thai  soulde  haif  bene  all  cryminall  onelie,  becaus 
that  thay  all  accuseit  him,  the  plane  text  witnesses  the  con- 
trair ;  for  the  princes  defendit  him,  and  so  no  doute  did  a  greit 
pairt  of  the  peopill ;  and  yit  he  bauldlie  affirmis,  that  thai 
soulde  be  all  gyltie  of  his  blude  gif  that  he  soulde  be  put  to 
deith.  And  the  propheit  Ezechiell  gifis  the  ressoune  why  all 
are  guilty  of  ane  commoune  corruptioune,  '  Becaus,"  sayis  he, 
'  I  socht  ane  man  araangis  thame  that  soulde  mak  [up]  the 
hedge,  and  stand  in  the  gappe  befoir  me  for  the  land,  that  I 
soulde  nocht  distroy  it,  but  I  fand  none ;  thairfoir,  haif  I 
powrit  my  indignatioune  upoun  thame.'  Heirof,  my  Lorde, 
(said  he,)  it  is  plaine,  that  God  craveis  nocht  onlie  that  a  man 
do  no  iniquittie  in  his  awin  persoune,  but  also  that  he  oppone^ 
him  self  to  all  iniquitie,  sa  far  furth  as  into  him  lyis." 

"  Than  Avill  ye,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  mak  subjectis  to  con- 
trolle  thair  prynces  and  reuleris." 

"  And  what  harm,''  said  the  uther,  "  soulde  the  Commoune- 
welth  ressaif,  gif  that  the  coiTupt  effectiounis  off  ignorant 
reuleris  wer  moderatit,  and  so  brydillit  be  the  wisdome  and 
discretioun  of  godlie  subjectis,  that  thai  soulde  do  wrang  nor 
violence  to  no  man  ? " 

"  All  this  ressonyng,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  is  nocht  of  the 
purpois ;  for  we  ressoune  as  gif  the  Queue  soulde  becum  sik 
an  ennemye  to  oure  religioune,  that  sche  soulde  persecute  it, 
and  put  innocent  men  to  deith  ;  whilk  I  am  assureit  sche  nevir 
thocht,  nor  nevir  will  do.  For  gif  I  soulde  see  hir  begin  at 
that  end,  yea,  gif  I  soulde  suspect  onie  sik  thing  in  hir,  I 
soulde  be  also  far  fordwarte  in  that  argument  as  ye  or  onie 
uther  within  this  Realme :  Bot  thair  is  nocht  sik  ane  thing. 
Oure  questioune  is,  Whidder  that  we  may  and  aucht  to  sup- 
pres  the  Quenis  Messe  ?  Or  whidder  hir  Idolatrie  salbe  laid  to 
our  chairge  ?" 

1  In  MS.  15t)H.  "  that  to  hci))  iiponi'." 


1564.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  441 

"  What  ye  may,"  said  the  uther,  "  be  force,  I  disput  nocht ; 
hot  what  ye  may  and  aucht  to  do  be  Godis  express  commandi- 
ment,  that  I  can  tell.  Idolatrie  aucht  nocht  [only]  to  be  siip- 
pressit,  but  the  idolater  aucht  to  dey  the  deith,  unless  that 
we  will  accuse  God." 

"  I  knaw,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  the  idolater  is  commandit 
to  dey  the  deith  ;  but  be  whome?" 

"Be  the  peopill  of  God,"  said  the  uther;  "for  the  com- 
mandinient  wes  gevin  to  Israeli,  as  ye  may  reid,  '  Heir,  Israeli,' 
sayis  the  Lorde,  '  the  statutis  and  the  ordinancis  of  the 
Lord  thy  God,'  &c.  Yea,  ane  [commandment]  wes  gevin.  That 
gif  it  be  heard  that  idolatrie  is  committit  in  onie  ane  cytie,  in- 
quisitioune  salbe  taikin ;  and  gif  it  be  founde  trew,  that  than 
the  whole  bodie  of  the  peopill  sail  aryse  and  destroy  that 
cytie,  spairing  in  it  nether  man,  woman,  nor  chylde." 

"  But  thair  is  no  commandiment  gevin  to  the  peopill,"  said 
the  Secretour,  "  to  punisch  thair  King  gif  he  be  ane  idoliter." 

"  I  find  no  moir  privilege  grantit  unto  Kingis,"  said  the  uther, 
"  be  God,  moir  than  unto  the  peopill,  to  ofiend  Godis  majestic." 

"  I  grant,"  said  Lethingtoun ;  "  but  yit  the  peopill  may 
nocht  be  jugeis  unto  thair  King  to  punisch  him,  albeit  he  be 
ane  idolater." 

"  God,"  said  the  uther,  "  is  the  Universall  Judge,  alsweill 
unto  the  King  as  to  the  peopill ;  so  that  what  his  worde  com- 
mandis  to  be  punischit  in  the  one,  is  nocht  to  be  absolved  in 
the  uther." 

"  We  agree  in  that,"  said  Lethingtoun ;  "  but  the  peopill 
may  nocht  execute  Godis  jugement,  but  man  leif  it  unto  him 
self,  who  will  either  punische  it  be  deith,  be  war,  be  emprisoun- 
ment,  or  be  sum  uther  plaigis."! 

"  I  knaw  the  last  pairt  of  your  ressoune,"  said  Johne  Knox, 
"  to  be  trew  ;  but  for  the  first,  to  wit,  that  the  peopill,  yea,  or 
ane  pairt  of  the  peopill  may  nocht  execut  God  jugementis 

'  lu  MS.  G,  "  or  be  sum  uther  kyrnl  of  bis  plagues." 


442  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

aganis  tliair  King,  being  ane  offender,  I  am  assureit  ye  haif 
no  uther  warrand  except  your  awin  imaginatioun,  and  the 
opinioune  of  sik  as  moir  feir  to  oifend  princes  than  God." 

"  Wliy  say  ye  so?"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  I  haif  the  jugementis 
of  the  most  famous  men  within  Europe,  and  of  sik  as  ye  your 
self  will  confes  boith  godlie  and  leirnit." 

And  with  that  he  callit  for  his  paperis,  quhilk  produceit  be 
Mr.  Robert  Maitland,!  he  began  to  reid  with  greit  gravitie 
the  jugementis  of  Luther,  Melanchton,  the  myndis  of  Bucer, 
Musculus,  and  Calvin,  how  Christianis  soulde  behaffe  thame 
selffis  in  tyme  of  persecutioun :  yea,  the  Buik  of  Baruch  wes 
nocht  omittit  with  this  conclusioune.^  "  The  gathering  of 
these  thingis,"  said  he,  "  hes  coist  moir  travell,  than  I  tuik  this 
sevin  yearis  in  raiding  of  anie  commentareis." 

"  The  moir  pitie,"  said  the  uther,  "  and  yit,  what  ye  haif 
proffeitit  your  awin  cause,  let  utheris  juge.  But  as  for  my 
argument,  I  am  assureit,  ye  haif  infirmit  it  nothing ;  for  your 
first  two  witnesses  speik  aganis  the  Anabaptistis,  who  deny 
that  Christianis  soulde  be  subject  to  magistratis,  or  yit  that 
is  lauchfull  for  ane  Christiane  to  be  ane  magistrate ;  quhilk 
opinioune  I  no  less  abhore  than  ye  do,  or  onie  uther  that  levis 
do.  The  utliers  speik  of  Cliristiane  subjectis  unto  tyrantis 
and  infidellis,  so  dispersed  that  thai  haif  no  uther  foi'ce  but 
onlie  to  sobbe  to  God  for  delyverance.  That  sik  indeid  sould 
haisard  onie  farder  than  these  godlie  men  willis  thame,  I 
can  nocht  haistellie  be  of  counsell.  But  my  argument  hes  ane 
uther  grounde  ;  for  I  speik  of  the  peopill  assembled  togidder  in 

'  Mr.  Robert  Maitland  was  Dean  of  brother-german,JamesMaitland,inMoii- 

Aberdeen,  having  succeeded  Mr.  Robert  laittie  ;  and  in  1601,  the  name  occxirs 

Erskine,  about  the  year  1-500.     He  was  (probably  his  nephew)  of  Mr.  Robert 

frequently  a  member    of  the   General  Maitland  of  Monlatie.     (Eccl.  Records 

Assembly,  and  became  one  of  the  Com-  of  Aberdeen,  p.  177.) 

missaries  of  Edinburgh.     He  died   at  -InMS.1566,  "yea,theBuikofBaruce 

Bi-echin  in  August  1579.     In  his  con-  Avas  nocht  admitted,  with  his  conclu- 

firmed  Testament,  (recorded  19th  Au-  sioun." 
gust   1-580,)   mention   is   made   of   his 


15G4.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  443 

one  bodie  of  ane  Commouneweltli,  unto  wliome  God  lies  gevin 
sufficient  force,  nocht  onlie  to  resyst,  but  also  to  suppres  all 
kynde  of  opin  idolatrie  :  and  sik  ane  peopill,  yit  agane  I  affirme, 
ar  bound  to  kepe  thair  land  clene  and  unpollutit.  And  that 
this  my  devissioune  sail  nocht  appeir  strange  unto  you,  ye  sail 
understand,  that  God  requyreit  one  thing  of  Abrahame  and  of 
his  seid,  when  he  and  thay  wer  strangeris  and  pilgremes  in 
Egipte  and  Canaan ;  and  ane  uther  thing  requyrit  he  of  thame, 
when  thay  wer  delyverit  fra  the  boundage  of  Egipt,  and  the 
possessioune  of  the  land  of  Canaan  grantit  unto  thame.  At  the 
first,  and  during  all  the  tyme  of  thair  boundage,  God  craveit 
no  moir  but  that  Abraham  soulde  nocht  defyle  himself  with 
idolatrie.  Nether  wes  he,  nor  yit  his  posterittie  commandit  to 
distroy  the  idollis  that  wer  in  Canaan  or  in  Egypt.  But  when 
God  gaif  unto  thame  the  possessioune  of  the  land,  he  gaif  unto 
thame  this  strait  commandiment,  '  Bewar  that  you  mak  league 
or  confyderacye  with  the  inhabitantis  of  this  land  :  gif  nocht 
thy  sonnis  unto  thair  dochteris,  nor  yit  gif  thy  douchteris  unto 
thair  sonnis.  But  this  sail  ye  do  unto  thame,  cut  downe  thair 
grovis,  destroy  thair  imageis,  brek  doune  thair  altaris,  and  leif 
thou  no  kynde  of  remembrance  of  those  abominatiounis,  whilk 
the  inhabitantis  of  the  land  useit  befoir :  for  thou  art  ane  holie 
peopill  unto  the  Lorde  thy  God.  Defyle  nocht  thy  self,  tliair- 
with,  with  thair  goddis.' 

"  To  this  same  commandiment,  I  say,  are  ye,  my  Lordis,  and 
all  sik  as  haif  professit  the  Lorde  Jesus  within  this  Realme 
bound.  For  God  lies  wrocht  no  less  myrakill  upoun  you,  baith 
spirituall  and  corporall,  than  he  did  unto  the  carnell  seid  of 
Abraham.  For  in  what  estait  your  bodyis,  and  this  pure 
Realme  wes,  within  this  sevin  yeir,  your  selfis  can  nocht  be 
ignorant :  You  and  it  wer  boith  in  boundage  of  ane  strange 
natioun ;  and  what  tyrrantis  rang  over  your  conscience,  God 
perchance  may  lat  you  feill,  becaus  that  ye  do  nocht  rychtlic 
acknawlege  the  benetit  ressavit.     When  oure  pure  Bretherin 


444  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

befoir  us  gave  tliair  bodeis  to  the  flamis  of  fyre,  for  the  testi- 
monie  of  the  treuthe,  and  when  skairslie  coulde  ten  be  founde 
into  ane  contrie,  that  ryclitlie  knew  God,  it  had  bene  folishnes 
to  haif  craveit  ether  of  the  Nobillitie,  or  of  the  meane  Subjectis, 
the  suppressing  of  Idolatrie  ;  for  that  had  beene  no  thing  but  to 
haif  exponeit  the  sempill  scheip  in  ane  prey  to  the  woulves. 
But  sen  that  God  hes  multipleyit  knawlege,  yea,  and  hes  gevin 
the  victorie  to  his  treuthe,  evin  in  the  handis  of  his  servandis, 
gif  ye  suffer  the  land  agane  to  be  defyleit,  ye  and  your 
Princess  sail  boith  drink  the  coupe  of  Godis  indignatioun,  sche 
for  hir  obstinat  abydeing  in  manifest  idolatrie,  in  this  grit 
lycht  of  the  Evangill  of  Jesus  Chryste,  and  ye  for  your  per- 
missioune  and  mentenyng  hir  in  the  same."  1 

Lethingtoun  said,  "  In  that  poynt  we  will  nevir  agree  ;  and 
whair  find  ye,  I  pra,y  you,  that  evir  onie  of  the  Prophettis  or 
of  the  Appossillis  taucht  sik  ane  doctrine,  that  the  peopill 
soulde  be  plaigit  for  the  idolatrie  of  the  prince;  or  yit,  that  the 
subjectis  mycht  suppres  the  idolatrie  of  thair  rewleris,  or 
punisch  tliame  for  the  same?" 

"  What  wes  the  commissioune  giffin  to  the  Appossillis,"  said 
lie,  "  my  Lorde,  we  knaw :  it  wes  to  preche  and  plant  the 
Evangill  of  Jesus  Chryste,  whair  darkness  aifoir  had  domi- 
nioune ;  and  thairfoir  it  behuifit  thame,  first  to  lat  thame  see  the 
lycht  befoir  that  thay  soulde  will  thame  to  put  to  thair  handis 
to  suppress  idolatrie.  What  preceptis  the  Appossillis  gaif  unto 
the  faythfull  in  perticular,  other  than  that  thai  commandit  all 
to  fley  frome  idolatrie,  I  will  nocht  affinne :  But  I  find  two 
thingis  quhilk  the  faithfuU  did;  the  one  wes,  thay  assisted  thair 
preichouris,  evin  aganeis  the  reuleris  and  magistrates  ;  the 
other  wes,  thay  suppressit  idolatrie  whairsoever  God  gaif  unto 
thame  force,  asking  no  leif  at  the  Empriour,  nor  of  his  deputtis. 
Reid  the  Ecclesiasticall  Historie,  and  ye  sail  find  exampill  suffi- 

'  In  ilS.  G,  there  is  tliis  marginal  note,  transcriber :  "  Qlhibder  this  h  es  cum 
which,  we  may  suppose,  was  added  by  the      to  pas  or  not,  let  the  Warld  judge." 


1504.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  445 

cient.  And  as  to  the  doctrine  of  the  Prophettis,  we  knaw  thay 
wer  interpretouri.s  of  the  law  of  God  ;  and  we  knaw  thay  spak 
alsweill  to  the  kingis  as  to  the  pcopill.  I  reid  that  nether  of 
boith  wald  heir  thame ;  and  thairfoir  come  the  plaig-  of  God 
upoun  boith.  But  that  thai  more  flatterit  Kingis  than  that  thay 
did  the  peopill,  I  can  nocht  be  persuadit.  Now,  Godis  lawis 
pronunces  deith,  as  befoir  I  haif  said,  to  idolateris  withoute 
exceptioune  of  onie  persoune  :  Now,  how  the  Propheittis  coulde 
rychtlie  interpret  the  law,  and  schew  the  causes  of  Godis  juge- 
mentis,  quhilk  evir  thay  threitned  soulde  follow  idolatrie,  and 
for  the  rest  of  abominatiounis  that  accumpaney  it,  for  it  is 
nevir  alone ;  but  still  corrupt  religioune  bringis  with  it  ane 
fylthie  and  corrupt  lyfe :  How,  I  say,  the  Propheittis  coulde 
reprove  the  vyces,  and  nocht  schaw  the  peopill  thair  dewtie,  I 
understand  nocht ;  and  thairfoir  I  constantlie  beleif  that  the 
doctrine  of  the  Prophettis  wes  so  sensible,  that  the  Kingis 
understude  thair  awin  abhominatiounis,  and  the  peopill  under- 
studc  what  thay  aucht  to  haif  done,  in  punisching  and  repressing 
tliame.  But  becaus  that  the  moist  pairt  of  the  pepill  wer  no 
less  rebellious  unto  God  than  Aver  thair  princes,  thairfoir  the 
ane  and  the  uther  conveineit  aganis  God  and  aganis  his  ser- 
vandis.  And  yit,  my  Lord,  the  factis  of  sum  Propheittis  ar  so 
evident,  that  thairof  we  may  collect  what  doctrine  thay  taucht ; 
for  it  war  no  small  absurdity  to  affirme  that  thair  factis 
soulde  repugn  to  their  doctrine." 

"  I  think,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  ye  meane  of  the  historie  of 
Jehu.     What  will  ye  prove  thairby  ?" 

"  The  cheif  held,"  said  Johne  Knox,  "  that  ye  deny,  to  wit. 
That  the  Propheittis  nevir  taucht  that  it  appertenit  to  the 
peopill  to  punisch  the  idolatrie  of  thair  Kingis ;  the  contrair 
whairof  I  affirm :  And  for  the  probatioun,  I  am  reddie  to  pro- 
duce the  fact  of  ane  Propheit  ;  for  ye  knaw,  my  Lord,  said  he, 
that  Eliseus  send  one  of  the  childrene  of  the  Proi^heittis  to 
anoynt  Jehu,  who  gaif  him  in  commandiment  to  destroy  the 


446  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

hous  of  his  maister  Achab  for  the  idolatrie  commitit  be  him, 
and  for  the  innocent  bhide  that  Jesabell  his  wyckit  wyff  had 
sched :  quhilk  he  obeyit,  and  pat  in  full  execution  ;  for  the 
quhilk  God  promessit  unto  him  the  stabillatie  of  the  kingdom 
to  the  fourt  generation.  Now,  said  he,  heir  is  the  fact  of  ane 
Propheit,  that  proveis  that  subjectis  wer  commandit  to  execute 
jugementis  upoun  thair  King  and  Prince." 

"  Thair  is  eneuch,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  to  be  ansuerit  thair- 
to  ;  for  Jehu  wes  ane  King  befoir  he  pat  onie  thing  in  execu- 
tioun ;  and  besydis  this,  the  fact  is  extraordinarie,  and  audit 
nocht  to  be  imitat." 

"  My  Lord,"  said  the  uther,  "  he  wes  ane  nieir  subject,  and 
no  King  whan  the  Propheittis  servand  came  unto  him ;  yea, 
and  albeit  that  his  fellow  capitanis,  heiring  of  the  message, 
blew  the  trumphet,  and  said,  'Jehu  is  king;'  yit  I  doute 
nocht,  but  Jesabell  boith  thocht  and  said,  '  He  wes  ane  trai- 
tour ;'  and  so  did  monie  utheris  that  wer  in  Israeli  and  in  Sa- 
maria. And  as  tuiching  that  ye  allege,  that  the  fact  M'es  ex- 
traordinarie, and  is  nocht  to  be  imitat,  I  say,  that  it  had 
ground  of  Grodis  ordinary  jugement,  whilk  commandis  the  ido- 
later to  dey  the  deith  ;  and,  thairfoir,  I  yit  agane  affirm e,  that 
it  is  to  be  imitat  of  all  those  that  prefferis  the  true  honour, 
the  true  worschip  and  glorie  of  God,  to  the  affectiounis  of 
flesch,  and  of  wick  it  Princes."-^ 

"  We  ar  nocht  bound  to  imitat  extraordinarie  exampillis," 
said  Lethingtoun,  "  unles  we  half  the  lyke  commandiment  and 
assurance." 

"  I  grant,"  said  the  uther,  "  gif  the  exampill  repugn  to  the 
law ;  and  gif  ane  avaricious  and  deceitfull  man  wald  borrow 
[gold,]  silver,  rayment,  or  [ony]  uther  necessaris  from  his 
nychtbour,   and  withhauld  the  same,  alledging,  that  so  thay 

*  The  conclusion  of  this  sentence  is  and  various  others  in  this  Disputation 
corrected  by  MS.  G.  In  MS.  1566,  the  have  either  been  omitted,  or  inaccurately 
words  are  liere  awkwardly  transposed;       trsinscribed. 


1564,  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  447 

mycht  do  and  nocht  oifend  God,  because  that  tlie  Iseraellitis 
did  so  to  the  Egiptianis  at  thair  depairtour  furth  of  Egipt. 
The  exampill  served  to  no  purpoise  unles  that  thai  coulde 
produce  the  lyke  cause,  and  the  lyke  commandiment  that  the 
Iseraellitis  had,  and  that  because  thair  fact  repugnit  to  this 
commandiment  of  God,  '  Thou  sail  nocht  steill/  But  whair 
the  exampill  aggreis  with  the  law,  and  is,  as  it  wer,  the  execu- 
tioun  of  Godis  jugementis  expressit  in  the  same,  I  say,  that 
the  exampill  approved  of  God  standis  to  us  in  place  of  a  com- 
mandiment: for,  as  God  of  his  natour  is  constant,  immutable, 
sa  can  he  nocht  dampne  in  the  aigis  subsequent,  that  whilk 
he  lies  approvit  in  his  servandis  befoir  us.  But  in  his  ser- 
vandis  befoir  us.  He  be  his  awin  commandiment  hes  approvit, 
that  subjectis  hes  nocht  onlie  distroyit  thair  Kingis  for  idola- 
trie,  but  also  hes  ruitit  out  thair  hoill  posteritie,  so  that  none 
of  that  race  Aves  left  efter  to  impyre  above  the  peopill  of  God/' 

"  Wliatsoevir  thai  did,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  wes  done  at 
Godis  commandiment." 

"  That  fortifeis  my  argument,"  said  the  uther ;  "  for  bo 
Godis  commandiment  he  approvit,  that  subjectis  punish  thair 
Princes  l  for  idolatrie  and  wickitness  be  thame  comraittit." 

"  We  half  nocht  the  lyke  commandiment,"  said  Lethingtoun. 

"  That  I  deny,"  said  the  uther ;  "  for  the  commandiment, 
'  The  idolater  sail  dey  the  deith,'  is  perpetuall,  as  [ye]  your 
self  hes  grantit :  You  douttit  onlie  who  sould  be  executouris 
againis  the  King ;  and  I  said  the  peopill  of  God,  and  hes  suffi- 
cientlie  provin,  as  I  think,  that  God  hes  raissit  up  the  peopill, 
and  by  his  Propheit  hes  anoyntit  ane  King  to  tak  vengeance 
upoun  the  King,  and  upoun  his  posteritie.  Quhilk  fact,  God 
sen  that  tyme  hes  nevir  retreittit ;  and,  thairfoir,  to  me  it  re- 
manis  for  ane  constant  and  cleane  commandiment  to  all  the 
peopill  professing  God,  and  haifing  the  power  to  punisch  vyce, 
what  thay  aucht  to  do  in  the  lyke  caise.     Gif  the  peopill  had 

'  In  MS.  G,  «  thair  Kings." 


448  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

interpiysit  onie  thing  without  Grodis  commandiraent,  we  mjcht 
haif  doutit  whidder  thai  had  done  weill  or  evill ;  but  seing 
that  God  did  bring  the  execution  of  his  law  agane  in  practice, 
efter  that  it  wes  cum  in  oblivioun  and  contempt,  what  resson- 
able  man  can  doute  now  of  Goddis  will,  unles  we  will  doute  of 
all  thingis  quhilk  God  renewis  nocht  unto  us  be  miracallis,  as 
it  wer  from  age  to  age.  But  I  am  assureit,  that  the  ansuer  of 
Abraham  unto  the  riche  man,  who  being  into  hell,  desyreit  that 
Lazarus,  or  sum  of  the  deid,  sould  be  send  unto  his  bretherin 
and  freindis,  to  foirwairne  thame  of  his  incredable  [pane  and] 
tormentis,  and  that  thay  sould  behaif  thame  selfis,  so  that  thai 
sould  nocht  cum  in  that  place  of  torment :  the  ansuer,  I  say, 
gevin  unto  him,  sail  confound  sik  as  craif  farder  approbatioun 
of  Godis  will  then  is  aired dy  expressit  within  his  holie  Scrip- 
touris  ;  for  Abraham  said,  '  Thay  haif  Moyses  and  the  Pro- 
pheittis,  whome  gif  thay  will  nocht  beleif,  neither  will  thay 
beleif  albeit  that  one  of  the  deid  sould  ryise.'  Evin  so,  I  say, 
my  Lord,  that  sik  as  will  nocht  be  taucht  what  thay  aucht  to 
do,  be  commandiment  of  God  anis  gevin,  and  anis  put  in  prac- 
tice, will  nocht  beleif  nor  obey,  albeit  that  God  sould  send 
angellis  from  hevin  to  instruct  that  doctrine." 

"  Ye  haif  but  produceit  ane  exampill,"  said  Lethingtoun. 

"  One  sufficeth,"  said  the  uther ;  "  but  yit,  God  be  praissit, 
we  lack  nocht  utheris ;  for  the  whole  jieopill  conspyreit  aganis 
Amasiath  king  of  Juda,  efter  that  he  had  turnit  away  from 
the  Lord,  followit  him  to  Lachess  and  slew  him,  and  tuik 
Uziah  and  anoyntit  him  king  in  steid  of  his  father.  The 
peopill  had  nocht  altogidder  forgottin^  the  league  and  cove- 
nant quliilk  wes  maid  betwix  thair  king  and  thame,  at  the  in- 
auguratioun  of  Joash,  his  father,  to  wit,  'That  the  King  and  the 
peopill  sould  be  the  peopill  of  the  Lord,'  and  than  sould  thai 
be  his  faythfull  subjectis :  From  the  quhilk  convenant,  whan 
that  first  the  father,  and  efter  the  sonne  declynit,  thai  wer 

1  See.  page  427,  note  ] .  Mn  MS.  1566,  "  gottin." 


1564.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  44'J 

boith  puniscliit  to  the  deitli,  Joash  be  his  avvin  servandis,  and 
Amasias  be  the  whole  peopill."' 

"  I  doubt/'  said  Lethingtoun,  "  whidder  thay  did  weill  or 
nocht." 

"  It  salbe  free  for  you,"  said  the  uther,  "  to  doubt  as  ye 
pleis ;  but  whair  I  find  executioun  according  to  Godis  lawis, 
and  God  him  self  nocht  to  accuse  the  doaris,  I  dar  nocht  doubt 
of  the  equittie  of  tliair  cause.  And  farder,  it  appeiris  unto 
me,  that  God  gaif  sufficient  approbatioun  and  allowance  to 
thair  fact ;  for  he  blissit  thanie  with  victorie,  peace,  and  pros- 
peritie,  the  space  of  fifty-two  yeiris  thairafter/' 

"  But  prosperitie,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  does  nocht  alwayis 
prove  that  God  approveis  the  factis  of  men." 

"  Yis,"  said  the  uther;  "when  the  factis  l  of  men  aggrie  with 
the  law  of  God,  and  ar  rewairdit  according  to  Godis  awin  pro- 
meise,  expressit  in  his  law,  I  say,  that  the  prosperitie  succeid- 
ing  the  fact  is  moist  infallable  assurance  that  God  lies  approvit 
that  fact.  Now  so  it  is,  that  God  lies  promeissit  in  his  law,  that 
when  his  peopill  sail  exterminat  and  destroy  sik  as  declyne 
from  him,  that  he  will  bliss  thanie,  and  multipley  tlianie,  as 
he  lies  promeissit  unto  thair  fatheris.  But  so  it  is,  that  Ama- 
sias turneit  fra  God  ;  for  so  the  text  do  witness  ;  and  plane  it  is 
the  peopill  slew  thair  king ;  and  lyke  plane  it  is,  that  God 
blissit  thanie :  Tliairfoir,  yit  agane  conclude  I,  that  God  aji- 
provit  thair  fact,  in  so  far  as  it  wes  done  according  to  his  com- 
mandiment,  wes  blissit  according  to  his  pronieise." 

"  Weill,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  I  think  nocht  the  ground  sa 
sure  as  I  durst  builde  my  conscience  thairupoun." 

"  I  pray  God,"  said  the  uther,  "  that  your  conscience  haif  no 
worse  ground  than  is  this,  when  soevir  ye  sail  begin  that  lyke 
work  wliilk  God  in  your  awin  eis  lies  alreddie  blessit.  And 
now,  my  Lord,  (said  he,)  I  haif  but  one  exampeill  to  produce, 
and    than  I   will  put   [an]  end  to  my   ressoiiying,  bccaus  I 

'  In  MS.  1.560,  '•  fultis." 


450  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

wearie  langer  to  stand."  (Commandiment  wes  gevin  tliat  lie 
sould  sytt  doune  ;  but  he  refuissit  it,  and  said,  "  Melanclioliusl 
ressouns  wald  liaif  sum  myrtli  intermixed,")  "  My  last  exampill, 
(said  he,)  my  Lord,  is  this : — Uzzias  the  King,  nocht  content  of 
his  royal  estait,  malepeirtlie  tuk  upoun  him  to  enter  within  the 
temple  of  the  Lord,  to  burne  incense  upoun  the  alter  of  in- 
cense; 'And  Azarias  the  preist  went  in  efter  him,  and  with  him 
fourscore  preistis  of  the  Lord,  vailzeant  men,  and  thay  with- 
stude  Uzzias  the  king,  and  said  unto  him,  It  pertenith  thee 
nocht,  Uzzias,2  to  burne  incense  unto  the  Lord,  but  to  the 
preistis,  the  sonnis  of  Aaroune,  that  ar  consecratit  to  offer 
incense  :  Go  furth  of  the  sanctuary,  for  thou  hes  transgressit, 
and  you  sail  haif  no  honour  of  the  Lord  God.'  Heirof,  my 
Lord,  I  conclude,  that  subjectis  nocht  onlie  may,  but  also 
audit  to  withstand  and  resist  thair  princes,  whensoever  thay 
do  onie  thing  that  expreslie  repugnis  to  God,  his  law,  or  holie 
ordinance." 

"  Thay  that  withstude  the  King,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  wer 
nocht  sempill  subjectis,  but  wer  the  Preistis  of  the  Lord,  and 
figoureis  of  Chryste,  and  sik  preistis  haif  we  none  this  day,  to 
withstand  Kingis  gif  thay  do  wrang." 

"  That  the  Hye  Preist  wes  the  figour  of  Chryste,"  said  the 
uther,  "  I  grant :  but  that  he  wes  nocht  ane  subject,  that  I 
deny.  For  I  am  assureit,  that  he  in  his  priestheid  had  no  jjre- 
rogative  above  those  that  had  passit  befoir  him.  Now,  so  it  is, 
that  Aaroune  wes  subject  unto  Moyses,  and  callit  him  his 
Lord.  Samuell,  being  boith  propheit  and  preist,  subject  him 
self  to  Saule,  efter  he  Aves  inaugurat  of  the  peopill.  Sadock 
bowit  befoir  David  ;  and  Abiathar  wes  depossit  frome  the 
preistheid  be  Salamoune,  quhilkis  all  confessit  thame  sellis 
subjectis  to  the  Kingis,  albeit  that  thairwith  thei  ceissit  nocht 
to  be  the  figouris  of  Christe.     And  whairas  ye  say,  that  wo 

'  In  MS.  1566,   "  raalaiikourclie  :"  in  ^  In  MS.  G,  '•  it  uppcitencih  not  unto 

MS.  L  3,  "  malancholik."  Uzzia.?." 


1564.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  451 

liaif  no  sik  prcistis  this  day,  I  mycht  answer,  that  nether  liaif 
we  sik  Kingis  this  day  as  than  wer  annoyntit  at  Godis  com- 
mandiment,  and  sat  upoun  tlie  sait  of  David,  and  wer  no  Ics 
the  figour  of  Chryste  Jesus  in  thair  juste  administratioun, 
then  wer  the  preistis  in  thair  appoyntit  office :  and  sik  Kingis, 
I  am  assureit,  we  haif  nocht  now  moir  than  that  we  haif  sik 
preistis :  for  Chiyste  Jesus  being  annoyntit  in  our  natour,  of 
God  his  Father,  both  King,  Priest,  and  Prophet,  hes  put  an 
end  to  all  externall  unctioune.  And  yit,  I  think,  ye  will  nocht 
say,  that  God  hes  now  diminissit  his  graceis  for  those  wliome 
he  appoyntis  ambassadouris  betwix  him  and  his  peopill,  [more] 
than  that  he  dois  from  kingis  and  princes  ;  and  thairfoir,  why 
that  the  seiTandis  of  Jesus  Chryste  may  not  alse  justlie  with- 
stand kingis  and  princes,  that  this  day  no  less  offendit  Godis 
majestic  than  Uzzias  did,  I  see  nocht,  onless  that  ye  will  say, 
that  we,  in  the  brychtnes  of  the  Evangill,  ar  nocht  sa  straitlie 
bound  to  regaird  Godis  glorie,  nor  yit  his  commandimentis. 
as  wer  the  fatheris  that  leiffit  under  the  dark  schaddowis  of 
the  Law." 

"  Weill,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  I  will  dip  no  farder  in  that 
lieid.  But  how  resisted  the  Preistis  the  King  ?  Thai  onelie 
spak  unto  him  without  farder  violence  intendit." 

"That  thay  withstude  him,"  said  the  other,  "the  text 
assureis  me ;  but  that  thay  did  nothing  but  speik,  I  can  nocht 
understand  ;  for  the  plane  text  affirms  the  contrair,  to  wit,  that 
thay  caused  him  haistilie  to  depairt  frome  the  sanctuarie,  yea, 
and  that  he  wes  compellit  to  depairt :  quhilk  maner  of  speik- 
ing,  I  am  assureit  in  the  Hebrew  toung  impoirtis  uther  thing 
than  exhoirting,  or  commanding  by  worde." 

"  Thay  did  that,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  efter  that  he  wes 
espyit  leaprous." 

"  Thay  withstude  him  befoir,"  said  the  otlier ;  "  but  yit 
thair  last  fact  confermes  my  propositioune  so  evidentlie,  that 
sik  as  will  oppono  thame  unto  it,  moist  neidis  oppone  thamc 


452  THE  HISTORY  OP  Book  IV. 

unto  God ;  for  my  assertioun  is,  that  kingis  liaif  no  previlege 
moir  than  has  the  peopill  to  offend  Godis  majestic  ;  and  gif  that 
so  thaj  do,  thay  ar  no  moir  exempted  from  the  puniscliment  of 
the  law  than  is  onie  uther  subject ;  yea,  and  that  subjectis 
may  nocht  onlie  lauclifullie  oppone  thame  selfis  to  thair  kingis, 
whensoevir  thay  do  onie  thing  that  expressedlie  repugnes  to 
Goddis  commandiment,  but  also  that  thay  may  execute  juge- 
ment  upoun  thame  according  to  Goddis  law ;  so  that  [if]  the 
king  be  ane  murtherar,  adulterar,  or  idolater,  he  soulde  suffer 
according  to  Godis  law,  nocht  as  ane  king,  but  as  ane  offender, 
and  that  the  peopill  may  put  Godis  lawis  in  executioune,  this 
Historie  cleirlie  proveis :  for  how  soon  that  the  leprosie  ap- 
peirit^  in  his  foirheid,  he  wes  nocht  onelie  compellit  to  depairt 
oute  of  the  sanctuarie,  but  also  he  was  removeit  frome  all 
publick  socyetie  and  administratioune  of  the  kingdome,  and 
wes  compellit  to  dwell  in  ane  house  ane  pairt,  evin  as  the  law 
commandit,  and  gat  no  grytter  privilage  in  that  cais  than  onie 
uther  of  the  peopill  soulde  haif  done  ;  and  this  wes  executit 
be  the  peopill ;  for  it  is  no  doute  mo  wer  witnesses  of  his 
leprossie  than  the  preistis  allone.  But  we  fynd  none  oppone 
thame  selfis  to  the  sentence  of  God  pronounced  in  his  law 
aganis  the  leprouse ;  and  thairfoir,  yit  agane  say  I,  that  the 
peopill  audit  to  execute  Goddis  law  evin  aganis  thair  princes, 
when  that  thair  oj)pin  ciymes  be  Godis  law  deserve  deith,  but 
especialie  when  thay  ar  sik  as  may  infect  the  rest  of  the  mul- 
titude. And  now,  my  Lordis,  (said  he,)  I  will  ressoune  no 
langer,  for  I  haif  spokin  moir  than  I  intendit." 

"  And  yit,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  I  can  nocht  tell  what  can 
be  concludit." 

"  Albeit  ye  can  nocht,"  said  the  uther,  "  yit  I  am  assurcit 
what  I  haif  provin,  to  wit : — 

"  1.  That  subjectis  haif  delyverit  ane  innocent  frome  the 
handis  of  thair  King,  and  thairintill  offendit  nocht  God. 

1  111  MSS.  G,  ami  L  3,  "  the  lejji-osic  was  espyed." 


1564.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  453 

"  2.  That  subjectis  liaif  refuseit  to  stryke  innocentis  whan 
ane  King  commandit,  and  in  so  doing-  denyit  no  just  obe- 
dience. 

"  3.  That  sik  as  struck  at  the  commandiment  of  the  King 
befoir  God  wer  reputed  murtheraris. 

"  4.  That  God  hes  nocht  onlie  of  ane  subject  maid  ane 
King,  but  also  hes  airmit  subjectis  aganis  thair  naturall  Kings, 
and  commandit  thame  to  tak  vengence  upoun  thame  according 
to  his  law. 

"  And,  last,  That  Godis  pepill  hes  executit  Godis  law  aganis 
thair  King,  having  no  farther  regaird  to  him  in  that  behalf, 
than  gif  he  had  bene  the  moist  simp  ill  subject  within  this 
Realm  e. 

"  And  thairfoir,  albeit  ye  will  not  understand  what  sould  be 
concludeit,  yit  I  am^  assureit  that  nocht  onlie  Goddis  pepill 
[may],  but  also,  that  thai  ar  bounde  to  do  the  same  wliair  the 
lyke  crymes  ar  committit,  and  when  he  gevis  unto  thame  the 
lyke  power." 

"  Weill,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  I  think  ye  sail  nocht  haif 
monie  leirnit  men  of  your  oppinioun." 

"  My  Lord,"  said  the  uther,  "  the  treuthe  ceisses  nocht  to 
be  the  treuthe,  howsoevir  it  be  that  men  [either]  misknaw  it, 
or  yit  ganestand  it.  And  yit,  (said  he,)  I  praise  my  God,  I 
lack  nocht  the  consent  of  Godis  servandis  in  that  lieid."  And 
with  that  he  presentit  unto  the  Secretour  the  Apologie  of 
Magdeburgh  ;  2  and  willit  him  to  reid  the  names  of  the  Mynis- 
teris  who  had  subscribed  the  defence  of  the  Toune  to  be  ane 
moist  juste  defence  ;  and  thairwith  addit,  "  That  to  resist  ane 
tyrant,  is  not  to  resist  God,  nor  yit  his  ordinance." 

1  In  MS.  G,  "  I  am  not."  upon  it  the  ban  of  tlie  Empire,  followed 

"    Magdeburg,   in    the    province    of      by  a  siege  in  1550,  which  endured  for 


is  a  town  of  ancient  date,  and  twelve  months  ;   but  a  treaty  was  con- 

of  importance  from  its   situation.     It  eluded  in   1551,   without  the   Magde- 

was  involved  in  disputes  with  Austria,  burgers  being  betrayed  into  any  mean 

on  accomit  of  the  protection  wliich  it  submission  to  the  Emperor.     (See  Ro- 

granted  to   Lutheranism.      This  drew  bcrtson's  Charles  V.,  Book  x.) 


454  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

Whilk  when  lie  had  read,  lie  scripped  and  said,  "  Homines 
obscuri."'^    The  utlier  ansuerit,  "  Dei  tamen  servi."^ 

And  [so]  Lethingtoun  arose  and  said,  ''  My  Lordis,  ye 
liaif  hard  the  ressounis  upoun  boitli  pairteis :  it  becumis  you 
now  to  decyde,  and  [to]  put  ane  ordour  unto  preicheouris, 
that  tliay  may  be  uniforme  in  doctrine.  May  we,  think  ye, 
tak  the  Queenis  Messe  frome  hir  V 

Whille  that  sum  began  to  geif  thair  voittis,  for  sum  wer 
appoyntit,  as  it  wer,  leaderis  to  the  rest,  Joline  Knox  said,  "  My 
Lordis,  I  suppois  that  ye  will  nocht  [do]  contrair  to  your 
[Lordships]  promeis,  maid  to  the  whole  Asseniblie,  whilk  wes, 
That  nothing  soulde  be  voited  in  secreit,  till  that  the  first  all 
maitteris  soulde  be  debaittit  in  publict,  and  that  than  the 
voittis  of  the  whole  Asseniblie  sould  put  an  end  to  the  contro- 
versie.  Now  half  I  onelie  sustenit  the  argument,  and  haif 
rather  schawin  my  conscience  in  moist  simpill  maner,  than 
that  I  haif  insystit  upoun  the  force  and  vehemence  of  onie  ane 
argument :  And  thairfoir  I,  for  my  pairt,  utterlie  disassent 
frome  all  voitting,  till  that  the  whole  Asseniblie  haif  hard  the 
propositiounis  and  the  ressounis  of  boith  pairteis.  For  I  un- 
feinyeitlie  acknawlege,  that  moiiie  in  this  cumpanie  ar  nioir 
abill  to  sustene  the  argument  than  I  am." 

"  Think  ye  it  ressonable,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  that  sik  ane 
multitude  [as]  ar  now  convenit,  soulde  ressoune  and  voit  in 
these  heidis  and  matteris  that  concerne  the  Quenis  Majesties 
awin  persoune  and  effairis  ? " 

"  I  think,"  said  the  utlier,  "  that  whatsoevir  soulde  bind, 
the  multitude  soulde  heir,  unless  that  thai  haif  resignit  thair 
power  unto  thair  Commissioneris,  whilk  thai  haif  nocht  done, 
sua  far  as  I  understand  ;  for  my  Lord  Justice-Clark  heard 
thanie  with  ane  voice  say.  That  in  no  wayis  wald  thai  consent 
that  onie  thing  soulde  ether  here  be  voited  or  coiicludit." 

"  I  can  nocht  tell,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  [if]  that  my  Lordis 

'  That  is,  "  Men  of  no  note."  ■^  Tlmt  is,  "  Serv.ants  of  God  however." 


1564.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  455 

that  be  heir  present,  and  that  beir  the  burding  of  sik  maitteris, 
soidde  be  bounde  to  thair  will.  What  say  ye,  (said  he,)  my 
Lordis  ?     Will  ye  voit  in  this  maitter,  or  will  ye  nocht  voit  ?" 

Efter  lang  ressonyng,  sum  that  Aver  maid  for  the  purpois 
said,  "  Why  may  nocht  the  Lordis  voit,  and  than  schaAv  unto 
the  Kirk  whatsoevir  is  done  ? " 

"  That  appeiris  to  me,"  said  Johne  Knox,  "  nocht  onlie  ane 
back  wart  ordour,  but  also  ane  tyrranie  usurpeit  upoun  the 
Kirk :  But  for  me,  do  as  ye  list,  (said  he,)  for  as  I  ressoune,  so 
I  voit ;  yit  protesting  as  befoir,  that  I  dissent  frome  all  voiting, 
till  that  the  lioill  Assemblie  understand  alsweill  the  questiounis 
as  the  ressonyngis." 

"  Weill,"  said  Lethingtoun,  "  that  can  nocht  be  done  now, 
for  the  tyme  is  spent ;  and  thairfoir,  my  Lorde  Chanceler, 
(said  he,)  ask  ye  the  voittis,  and  tak  [be  course]  everie  ane  of 
the  Mynisteris,  and  ane  of  us." 

And  so  wes  the  Rectour  of  Sanctandrois  i  commanded  first  to  *•''•  ^°"^'* 

DOUGLAS 

speik  his  conscience  ;  who  said,  "  I  reffer  to  the  Superintendant  ^<^t'^^«- 
of  F3"iFe,  for  I  think  we  ar  boith  in  one  jugement  ;  and  yit, 
(said  he,)  gif  ye  Avill  that  I  speik  first,  my  conscience  is  this, 
That  gif  the  Queue  oppone  hir  self  to  oure  religioun,  whilk  is 
the  onelie  trew  religioun,  that  in  that  caise  the  Nobillitie  and 
Estaitis  of  this  Realme,  professouris^  of  the  trew  doctrine,  may 

'  At  page  286  of  the  formei-  volume,  promise  with  the  Earl  of  Morton,  he  •was 
a  brief  notice  of  Douglas  is  given,  in  nominated  to  the  See  of  St.  Andi-ews  : 
order  to  show  that  he  must  be  dis-  Knox  ha^-ing  refused  to  inaugurate  him, 
tinguished  from  John  Douglas,  a  Car-  the  ceremony  was  pei-formed  by  Mr. 
malite  Friar,  who,  forsaking  his  order,  JobnWynrame.  (M'Crie's  Life  of  Knox.) 
became  in  1558,  Chaplain  to  the  Earl  of  According  to  his  Confirmed  Testament, 
Argyle.  As  stated  in  the  note  refeiTed  29th  January  1574-5,  "  Johne  Arch- 
to,  Mr.  John  Douglas  was  elected  Pro-  bishop  of  Sanctandrois,  &c.  died  in 
vost  of  St.  Mary's  College,  St.  Andrews,  (blank)  1574;"  and  it  shows  that  his 
in  1547.  He  was  also  electetl  for  a  long  nominal  dignity  had  not  em-iched  him. 
series  of  years  Rector  of  the  University;  The  Summa  of  his  Inventar  amounted 
and  having  embraced  the  Reformed  only  to  £280,  4s.  4d.,  and  this  included 
opinions,  he  still  continued  his  residence  ■'  Item,  his  L[ordship's  J  liberall  [li- 
at  St.  Andrews,  retauiing  his  situation  brary]  of  buki.«,  extending  to  ane  him- 
as  Provost  of  the  College.  In  1571,  dreth  pundis." 
when  "  an  auld  feeble  man,"  by  a  com-  =  i^  ^jg  q   u  ^),j,^  ^c^xq  professit." 


456  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

justlie  oppone  tliame  selffis  unto  hir.  But  as  concernyng  liir 
awin  Messe,  I  knaw  it  is  idolatrie,  but  yit  I  am  nocht  yit 
resolved,  wliidder  that  be  violence  we  may  tack  it  frome  liir  or 
noclit."  The  Superintendant  of  Fyife  ^  said,  "  That  same  is  my 
conscience/'  And  so  affirmit  sum  of  the  Nobillitie.  But 
utheris  voitted  frankley,  and  said,  "  That  as  the  Messe  wes 
abominatioun,  so  wes  it  juste  and  rycht  that  it  soulde  be  sup- 
pressit ;  2  aiid  that  in  so  doing,  men  did  no  moir  wrong  to  the 
Quenis  Majestic  than  thay  that  soulde  be  force  tak  frome  hir 
ane  poysonit  coupe  when  sche  wes  going  to  drink  it." 

At  last,  Mr.  Johne  Craig,^  fellow-minister  with  Johne  Knox 
in  the  Kirk  of  Edinburgh,  wes  requyreit  to  gif  his  jugement 
and  vote,  who  said,  "  I  will  glaidlie  scliaw  unto  your  Honouris 
what  I  understand  ;  but  I  gritlie  doubt  whidder  my  knawlege 
and  conscience  sail  satisfy  you,  seing  that  ye  haif  heard  so 
monie  rcssounis  and  ar  so  lyttil  moved  be  thame.  But  yit  I 
sail  nocht  conceill  from  you  my  jugement,  adhering  first  to  the 
protestatioun  of  my  Brother,  to  wit.  That  our  voitting  pre- 
judge nocht  the  lybertie  of  the  Generall  Assembly.  I  wes, 
(said  he,)  in  the  Universitie  of  Bononia,^  in  the  yeir  of  God 
1554,^  whair,  in  the  place  of  the  Blak-Freiris  of  the  same 

^Mr.JolinWym'ame.  See  note  in  vol.  i.  He   at  length    succeeded  in    reaching 

p.  150.   As  Sub-prior  of  St.  Andrews,  he  Scotland.     He  was  minister  of  the  Ca- 

sat  as  one  of  the  Judges  at  the  trials  of  nongate  for  a  short  time,  before  he  was 

Sir  John  Borthwick  in  1540,  of  George  appointed   Knox's   colleague.     He  was 

AVishart  in  15-16,  and  of  Walter  Mjln  in  translated    from    Edinburgh    to    New 

1550.     In  1549,  at  the  Provuicial  Coim-  Aberdeen  before  1574 ;  but  was  brought 

oil  held  at  Edinburgh,  he  is  styled  "M.  back  as  King's  Minister  in  July  1580. 

Johannes  AVynrame  Ecclesi*  Metrop.  He  survived  till  the  year  1600,  and  died 

Primitialis  S.  AndreiB,  Canonicus  Regu-  at   the   advanced   age  of  eighty-eight, 

laris,  et  Supprioi',  Theologiae  Doctor."  (M'Crie's  Life  of  Knox,  vol.  ii.  13.53-57; 

He  sm-vived  till  the  year  1582,  when  he  Wodrow  Miscellany,  vol.  i.  p.  455.) 

died  at  the  advanced  age  of  ninety.  *  The  Latin  name  of  Bologna. 

2  In  MSS.  G,  and  L  4,  "  repressed."  ^  So  also  in  MS.  L  3  ;  but  in  MS.  A  i, 

8  Mr.  John  Craig  was  born  in  1512,  the  date  is  "  1550;"  in  MSS.  L  4,  and 

became  a  Dominican  Friar,  and  narrow-  M, « 1553."   MS.  G,  makes  it  "  1562" — 

ly  escaped  from  a  sentence  of  the  Inqui-  an  obvious  mistake,  as  Craig  returned  to 

.sition  at  Rome,  which  had  condemned  Scotland  in  15G0,  and  is  not  known  to 

him  to  the  flames  as  a  heretic  in  1559.  have  left  it  at  any  subsequent  period. 


1564.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  457 

toune,  I  saw  in  the  tyme  of  tliair  Generall  Assemblie  this 
Conclusioun  set  furth:  This  same  I  hard  ressoned,  deter- 
mined, and  condudit : — 

COXCLUSIO. 

"  Principes  omnes,  tam  supremi,  quam  inferiores,  possunt 

ct  debent  reformari,  vel  deponi  per  eos,  per  quos  eliguntur, 

confirmantur,  vel  admittuntur  ad  ofScium,  qiioties  a  fide 

prsestita  subditis  per  juramentum  deficiunt :    Quoniam  re- 

latio  juramenti  subditorum  et  principum  mutua  est,  et 

utrinque  aequo  jure  servanda  et  reformanda,  juxta  legem 

et  conditionem  juramenti  ab  utraque  parte  facti." 

"  That  is,  All  Reuleris,  be  thay  supreame  or  be  thay  infe- 

riour,  may  and  aucht  to  be  reforaied  or  deposed  be  thame  be 

whom  thay  ar  cliosin,  confirmed,  or  admitted  to  thair  office, 

as  oft  as  thay  bralc  that  promeis  maid  be  the  oath  to  thair 

subjectis  :     Because  that  thair  Prince  is  no  less  bound  be  oath 

to  the  subjectis,  then  is  the  subjectis  to  thair  Princeis,  and 

thairfoir  aucht  to  be  keipit  and  reformed  equallie,  according 

to  the  law  and  conditioun  of  the  oath  that  is  maid  of  other 

partie." 

"  This  Conclusioun,  my  Lordis,  I  heard  sustenit  and  con- 
dudit, as  I  haif  said,  in  ane  moist  notabill  auditour.  The 
sustcnar  wes  ane  leirnit  man,  M.  Thomas  de  Finola,  the  Rec- 
tour  of  the  Universitie,  ane  man  famous  in  that  cuntrie.  Ma- 
gister  Vincentius  de  Placentia,  affirmed  the  Conclusioun  to  be 
moist  true  and  certane,  agreable  boith  with  the  law  of  God 
and  man.  The  occasioun  of  this  Disputatioun  and  Conclu- 
sioun, wes  ane  certene  disordour  and  tyrranie  that  wes  at- 
tempit  be  the  Paipes  Governouris,  who  began  to  mak  innova- 
tionis  in  the  cuntrie  aganis  the  lawis  that  wer  befoir  estab- 
lischit,  alledging  thame  selfis  nocht  to  be  subject  to  sik  lawis, 
be  ressoune  that  thay  wer  nocht  institute  be  the  peopill,  but 
be  the  Paip,  who  wes  King  of  that  cuntrie  ;  and,  thairfoir 
thay,  haifing  full  commissioun   and   authoritie  of  the   Paip, 


458  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  IV. 

myclit  alter  and  change  statuteis  and  ordinanceis  of  the  cun- 
trie,  witlioiit  all  consent  of  the  peopill.  Aganis  this  [thair] 
usurped  tyrranie,  the  leirnit  and  the  peopill  opponeit  thame 
selffis  opinlie :  and  when  that  all  ressounis  whilk  the  Paipis 
governouris  could  allege  wer  heard  and  confuted,  the  Paip 
him  self  wes  fane  to  tak  up  the  maitter,  and  to  promeis  to 
keip  noclit  onlie  the  lybertie  of  the  peopill,  hut  also  that  he 
sould  neither  abrogat-^  onie  law  [or]  statute,  neither  yit  mak 
onie  new  law  without  thair  awin  consent.  And,  thairfoir,  my 
Lord,  (said  he,)  my  vote  and  consience  is,  that  Princes  ar  nocht 
onlie  bound  to  keip  lawis  and  promeisses  to  thair  subjectis, 
but  also,  that  in  caise  thai  faill,  thay  justlie  may  be  deposeit ; 
for  the  band  betwix  the  Prince  and  the  Peopill  is  reciproce." 

Tlien  start  [up]  ane  claw-back  of  that  corrupt  Court,  and 
said,  "  Ye  wat  nocht  what  ye  say  ;  for  ye  tell  us  what  wes 
done  in  Bononia ;  we  ar  ane  kingdome,  and  thai  ar  but  ane 
Commounwelth.'' 

"  My  Lord,"  said  he,  "  my  jugement  is,  that  everie  kingdom 
is,  or  at  leist,  sould  be  ane  Commounwelth,  albeit  that  everie 
Commounwelth  be  noclit  ane  kingdom  ;  and,  thairfoir,  I  think, 
that  in  ane  kingdom  no  less  dylligence  audit  to  be  taikin,  that 
lawis  be  nocht  violatit,  than  is  [in]  ane  Commounwelth ;  be- 
cause that  the  tyrranie  of  Princeis  who  continwallie  ring2  in 
ane  kingdom,  is  moir  hurtful!  to  the  subjectis,  than  is  the  mis- 
government  of  those  that  from  yeir  to  yeir  ar  chaingit  in  fre 
Commounwelthis.  But  yit,  my  Lordis,  to  assure  you  and  all 
utheris  farder,  that  held  wes  disputed  be  the  utermoist ;  and 
than,  in  the  end,  it  was  concludit,^  that  thay  spak  nocht  of  sik 
thingis  as  wer  done  in  diverse  kingdomis  and  natiounis  be  tyr- 
ranie and  negligence  of  peopill.  '  But  we  conclude,'  said  thai, 
'  what  aucht  to  be  done  in  all  Kingdomis  and  Commounwelthis, 
according  to  the  law  of  God,  and  unto  the  just  lawis  of  man. 

»  In  MS.  1566,  "  haif  brocht."  » In  MSS.  1566,  and  L  3,  «  nocht  con- 

^  In  MS.  1566,  "  who  continewing."         eluded." 


l.'>64.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  459 

And  gif  be  the  negligence  of  the  peopill,  or  be  tyrranie  of 
Prmces,  contrair  lawis  half  bene  maid,  yit  may  that  same 
peopill,  or  thair  posteritie,  justlie  craif  all  thingis  to  be  reform- 
ed,i  according  to  the  originall  institutioun  of  Kingis  and  Com- 
mounwelthis  :  and  sik  as  will  nocht  [do]  so,  deserve  to  eit  the 
friite  of  thair  awin  folischnes.'" 

Maister  James  Makgill,^  than  Clark  of  Register,  pcrsaifing 
the  voittis  to  be  different,  and  heiring  the  bauld  plainess  of 
the  foirsaid  servand  of  God,  said,  "  I  remember  that  this  same 
questioun  wes  lang  debaittit  aneis  befoir  this  in  my  house, 
and  thair,  be  ressoune  that  we  wer  nocht  all  of  ane  mynd,  it 
wes  concludit,  that  Mr.  Knox  sould  in  all  our  names  half 
writtin  to  Mr.  Calvin  for  his  jugement  in  the  contra versie." 

"  Nay,"  said  Mr.  Knox,  "  my  Lord  Secretour  wald  nocht 
consent  that  I  sould  wiytte,  alleging,  that  the  grittest  weycht 
of  the  ansuor  stude  in  the  narrative,  and  thairfoir  [promeisit 
that]  he  wald  wryte,  and  I  sould  sey  it.  But  when,  (said  he,) 
that  diverse  tymes  I  requyreit  him  to  remember  his  promeis, 
I  fand  no  thing  but  delay." 

Wliairto  the  Secretour  did  ansuer,  "  True  it  is,  I  pro- 
meist  to  wryte,  and  true  it  is,  that  diverse  tymeis  Mr.  Knox 
requyreit  me  so  to  do.  But  when  I  had  moir  deiplie  consyd- 
derit  the  weycht  of  the  maitter,  I  began  to  find  mo  douttis 
than  that  I  did  befoir,  and  this  one  amangis  utheris,  How  I 
durst,  I  being  ane  subject,  and  the  Quenis  Majesties  Secretarie,^ 

^  In  MS.  1566,  "  ressonit."  in  tbe  Registers  as  having  taken  any 

-  Some  notices   respecting  Mackgill,  degree.     Chalmers  has  devoted  much  la- 

Avho  -was  appointed  Clerk  Register  in  hour  in  tracing  the  career  of  tliis  very 

1.554,  are  given  at  page  156.     From  the  able  man,  whose  policy  in  changing  his 

Treasm-er's  Accounts  it  appears  his  sa-  views  from  time  to  time  proved  equally 

lary  was  only  20  merks,  or  £13, 6s.  8d.  imfortunate  to  himself  and  his  coimtry. 

3  William  Maitland,   usually   styled  (Life  of  Mary  Queen  of  Scots,  2d  edit. 

Laird  of  Lcthington,  was  the  eldest  son  of  vol.  iii.  page  530  to  615.)     At  an  early 

Sir  Richard  Maitland  of  Lethington,  and  period  of  life  Maitland  took  an  active 

was  born  probably  between  1525  and  share  in  public  affairs.     Knox  mention." 

1530.     He  is  said  to  have  studied  at  St.  him  imder  the  year  1555,  (vol.  i.p.  247;) 

Andrews,  but  his  name  does  not  occur  and  on  more   than  one  occasion  calls 


460 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  IV. 


talc  upoim  me  to  seik  resolutioun  of  contraverseyis  depending 
betwix  hir  Heyness  and  liir  subjectis,  without  liir  awin  knaw- 
lege  and  consent."  Than  wes  thair  ane  acclamatioun  of  the 
claw-hackis  of  the  Courte,  as  if  Apollo  had  gevin  his  response : 
It  wes  wjselie  and  faythfullie  done. 

"  Weill/'  said  Johne  Knox,  "  let  M^arldlie  men  praise  warld- 
lie  wisdome  so  heichlie  as  thay  pleise,  I  am  assureit,  that  he  sik 
shiftis,  idolatrie  is  mentenit,  and  the  treuth  of  Jesus  Chryste  is 
betrayit,  whairof  God  one  day  will  be  revengit."  At  this,  and 
the  lyke  scherpnes,  monie  offendit,  the  voitting  ceissit,  and 
everie  factioun  began  planelie  to  speik  as  effectioun  moveit 
thame. 

Johne  Knox  in  the  end  wes  commandit  yit  to  wryte  to 
Mr.  Calvin,  and  to  the  leirnit  in  uther  Kirkis,  to  knaw  thair 
jugementis  in  that  questioune ;  quliilk  he  refuissit,  schawing 
his  ressoun,  "  I  myself  am  nocht  onlie  fullie  resolved  in  con- 
science, but  also  I  haif  heard  the  jugementis  in  this,  and  all 
uther  thingis  that  I  haif  affirmit  within  this  Realme,  of  the 
moist  godlie  and  moist  leirnit  that  be  knawin  in  Europe.   I  come 


him  "  the  author  of  all  the  mischief" 
that  had  occurred.  He  first  appears  in 
the  service  of  the  Queen  Regent ;  and  in 
September  1555,  the  Treasurer  paid  "  to 
William  Maitland,  be  the  Quenis  Grace 
precept,  for  his  pension  of  this  instant 
zeir,  £150."  After  the  death  of  Bishop 
Panter,  on  the  4th  December  1558,  he 
•was  appointed  Secretary  of  State.  In 
October  1559,  he  joined  the  Lords  of  the 
Congregation ;  in  August  1560,  he  acted 
as  Speaker  of  Parliament ;  and  in  the 
following  year  he  was  raised  to  the 
bench.  After  various  embassies  to 
France  and  England,  and  after  having 
an  active  share  in  all  the  intrigues  and 
public  affairs  of  the  time,  he  died  at 
Leith,  as  alluded  to  at  page  3G3,  note  1, 
9th  .June  1573.  He  was  twice  married. 
On  the  10th  November  1552,  he  had  a 
charter  of  lands  in  Stirlingshire  to  him- 


self and  Janet  Menteith  his  spouse  :  she 
was  the  daughter  of  Menteith  of  Kerse. 
He  married,  secondly,  at  Stirling,  6th 
January  1566-7,  l\Iary  Fleming,  daugh- 
ter of  Malcolm  third  Lord  Fleming. 
After  his  death  she  addressed  a  pathetic 
letter  to  Lord  Burleigh,  dated  from  Edin- 
burgh, 21st  June  1573,  praying  that  her 
husband's  body  might  "  receive  no  shame 
or  ignominy.'"  The  English  General, 
on  the  18th,  had  also  written,  that  he 
had  been  pressed  by  the  Earl  of  Athole 
and  others,  "  that  the  body  of  Leding- 
toim  might  be  buried,  and  not  remain 
above  the  ground  as  it  does.^' — In  1584, 
Parliament  passed  an  Act  of  "  Pacifi- 
cation to  Marie  Flemyng,  (relict  of 
lunquhill  William  ]\Iaitland  younger  of 
Lethingtoim,  Secretare  to  our  Soverane 
Lord)  and  his  bairnis."  (Acta  Pari. 
Scot.  vol.  iii.  p.  313.) 


1564.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  461 

noclit  to  this  Realme  without  thair  resolutioiin  ;  and  for  my 
assurance  I  liaif  tlie  hand  wrytingis  of  monie  ;  and,  thairfoir, 
gif  I  sould  [now]  move  the  same  questioun  agane,  what  sould 
I  do  uther,  but  eitlier  schaw  my  awin  ignorance  and  forget- 
fulness,  or  ellis  inconstancey :  And,  thairfoir,  it  may  pleisc 
you  to  appardoune  me,  alljeit  I  wryte  nocht.  But  I  will  teich 
you  the  surer  way,  wliilk  is  [this],  that  ye  wryte  and  com- 
playne  upoun  me,  that  I  teich  publictlie  and  afBrme  constant- 
lie  sik  doctrine  as  offendis  you,  and  so  sail  ye  knaw  thair 
plane  myndis,  and  whidder  that  I  and  thay  aggrey  in  juge- 
ment  or  nocht." 

Diverse  said  the  offer  wes  gude  ;  hot  no  man  wes  foundo  thkendof 

°  THE  RESSON. 

that  wald  be  the  secretour.     And  so  did  that  Assemblie  inVxVGBE- 

TWIX 

lang  ressonyng  brek  up.  Eftcr  the  whilk  tyme,  the  mynis-  ^nITthe"^ 
teris,  that  wer  callit  preceissit,  wer  haldin  of  all  the  Cour-  ^n  ju'ne^^ 
teouris  as  monstouris.  ^'^^^• 

In  all  that  tyme^  the  Eric  of  Murray  wes  so  formed  2  to 
Johne  Knox,  that  nowther  be  word  nor  wiite  wes  there  ony 
communicatioun  betwix  tliame.^ 

'  In  MS.  1566,  this  short  paragraph  a  proofe  of  Mr.  Knox  his  deep  juge- 
of  three  lines,  is  in  a  different  hand  and  ment  and  promptness  in  citing  the  pas- 
colour  of  ink,  and  bears  a  close  resem-  sages  of  Scripture,  besides  his  great  zeal, 
blance  to  Knox's  own  writing.  courage,  and  sinceritie  in  the  cause  of 

2  So  in  the  MS. ;  but  evidently  intend-  God,  without  respect  to  flesh  or  blood." 

ed  for  fremmit,  strange,  foreign  :  in  MS.  MS.  L  4,  adds,  "  Mi\  Knox  endeth  the 

G,  "  fi-emmed  ;"  in  MS.  M,  "  freamed ;"  4  Bulk  of  his  Storie,  with  this  Confe- 

in  MS.  L  4,  "  frame;"  in  MS.   A  1,  rence."    In  MS.  M,  « Heere  endeth  the 

«  fi-amed ;"  but  MS.  L  3,  has  "formed."  Fourth  Booke  of  Mr.  Knox  his  Historic 

8  In  the  later  MSS.  there  are  several  of  the  Chiu'ch  of  Scotland."     On  a  se- 

variations  at  the  end  of  this  book.     In  parate  leaf  in  MS.  L  4,  are  four  para- 

MSS.  A  1,  and  L  3,  an  extract  from  his  graphs  which  occur  in  Book  Fifth,  and 

Sermon  in  1565,  is  added  with  this  title,  are  copied  nearly  verhatim  in  Calder- 

"  These  words  following  are  found  writ^  wood's  History,   vol.  ii.  pp.  280,  284, 

ten  be  John  Knox,  in  the  preface  of  a  294,  295.     The  last  paragi-aph  breaks 

certain  Treatise  maid  be  him  upon  the  off  in  the  middle  of  a  sentence,  and  in 

xxvj.  cap.  Isayas."     In  MSS.  M,  and  the  margin  is  added,  "  The  rest  of  this 

L  4,  we  read  as  follows  : — "  In  this  Con-  section  ye  will  find  elsewhere,  in  the  be- 

ference,  (with  Lethington,)  ye  may  see  ginning  of  some  writt  scroUis." 


/-A 


THE  FIFTH  BOOK  OF  THE  REFORMATION  OF 
THE  CHURCH  OF  SCOTLAND. 


[     465     ] 


INTRODUCTORY  NOTICE  TO  BOOK  FIFTH. 

In  the  previous  volume  it  has  been  shewn  that  the  Four 
Books  of  The  History  of  the  Reformation  in  Scotland  were 
written  by  Knox,  between  the  years  1559  and  1566  ;  and  that 
these  Books  have  reached  us.  as  completed  by  himself,  without 
being  either  mutilated  or  interpolated,  except  in  the  common 
printed  editions  of  the  work.  But  of  the  Fifth  Book,  no  manu- 
script copy  has  been  discovered  ;  and  although  there  may  be 
sufficient  reason  to  prevent  us  from  ascribing  its  composition  to 
the  Scotish  Reformer,  there  can  be  no  doubt  of  the  propriety  of 
annexing  it  as  a  Supplement  or  Continuation  of  his  History. 

This  Fifth  Book  relates  to  the  progress  of  affairs  in  Scot- 
land, from  September  1564  to  August  1567,  when  Queen  Mary 
having  been  forced  to  abdicate  the  throne,  the  Earl  of  Murray 
was  appointed  Regent.  It  was  first  published  in  folio,  in  the 
year  1644,  by  David  Buchanan,  a  person  of  literary  distinc- 
tion, of  whom  some  account  will  be  given  in  the  Appendix  to 
the  present  volume.     The  volume  has  this  title : — 

"  The  Historie  of  the  Reformation  of  the  Church  of 
Scotland  ;  Containing  five  Books :  Together  with  some  Trea- 
tises conducing  to  the  Histoiy.  Published  by  Authority. 
(Jerem.  5.  1. — 2  Cor.  13.  8.)  London,  Printed  by  John  Ra- 
worth,  for  George  Thomason  and  Octavian  Pullen,  and  are  to  be 
sold  at  the  Signe  of  the  Rose  in  Paul's  Church-yard,    mdcxliv." 

In  the  course  of  the  same  year,  another  edition,  in  quarto, 
appeared  under  a  similar  title  : — "  The  Historie,  &c.  Printed 
at  London  for  0.  T.  and  0.  P.  And  Re-Printed  at  Edin- 
burgh by  Robert  Bryson,  and  are  to  be  sold  at  his  Shop  at 
the  Signe  of  Jona.     1 644." 

VOL.  II.  2  G 


46G  INTRODUCTORY  NOTICE 

It  is  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  this  Edinburgh  edition  was 
a  literal  reprint.  The  greater  portion  of  the  volume  is  in  fact 
so,  insomuch  that  the  words  and  letters  in  most  of  the  lines 
correspond  in  the  two  editions ;  still  there  are  some  changes 
which  it  is  not  improbable  were  introduced  under  Buchanan's 
immediate  inspection.  The  Preface  "  To  the  Reader/'  in 
which  the  Editor  "  D.  B."  says,  "  I  have  thought  fit  in  this 
place  to  point  at  some  main  occurrences  from  that  time  (1567) 
till  now/'  remains  unaltered.  But  "  The  Life  of  John  Knox," 
which  fills  eight  pages  in  the  folio  edition,  is  extended  as 
"  The  Life  and  Death  of  John  Knox,"  in  the  quarto,  to  twenty- 
two  pages,  including  "  An  Acrostick"  (8  lines),  and  16  lines 
in  the  shape  of  an  altar,  "  To  the  pretious  memorie  of  John 
Knox,  that  worthie  Primitive-Reformer  in  the  Church  of  Scot- 
land/' signed  "  J.  L."  The  historical  "  Preface,"  relating  to 
the  earlier  people  and  religion  of  Scotland,  filling  thirty  leaves 
in  the  folio,  and  thirty-two  leaves  in  the  quarto  edition,  con- 
tains no  alterations.  Neither  are  there  any  of  importance, 
until  we  reach  the  close  of  Book  Fourth,  where  four  para- 
graphs are  added,  two  of  them  being  transposed  from  the  com- 
mencement of  Book  Fifth.  Other  additions  occur  towards  the 
latter  part  of  Book  Fifth.  And  in  the  subjoined  Treatises, 
there  is  added  Knox's  "  Brief  Exhortation,"  dated  from  Ge- 
neva, 12th  January  1557. 

The  passage  in  Buchanan's  Life  of  John  Knox,  in  which  he 
speaks  of  the  History  of  the  Reformation,  is  worthy  of  no- 
tice. After  mentioning  Knox's  education  and  earnest  study  of 
the  Holy  Scriptures,  he  refers  to  his  sufierings,  and  says,  "  For 
the  cause  of  the  truth,  he  sufiered  very  much  by  sea  and  land, 
in  minde  and  body ;  among  foiTaigners,  and  amongst  his  own 
countreymen,  as  ye  may  see  in  this  Histoiy  of  the  Church, 
which  now  here  we  present  unto  you :  Which  History,  namely 
so  much  of  it,  I  mean,  as  formerly  was  published,  hath  gone 
commonlv  under  his  name,  because  he  is  the  man  of  whom 


TO  BOOK  FIFTH.  407 

most  is  spoken  tliorowout  the  whole  History,  as  being  a  most 
earnest  and  diligent  agent  in  the  businesse  of  the  Reformation 
in  the  Church :  Next,  because  he  hath  penned  with  his  own 
hand,  or  spoken  by  word  of  mouth,  the  most  j)art  of  the  most 
remarkable  and  most  usefull  things  for  Posterity  in  the  His- 
tory. Thirdly,  the  whole  History  is  gathered  out  of  his  Papers 
and  Manuscripts :  And  so  ye  see  why  it  is  generally  received 
to  be  of  John  Knox.     But  to  return  to  his  Life,"  &c. 

In  the  Edinburgh  edition,  this  reference  to  the  History  is 
altered  as  follows : — after  mentioning  that  Knox  "  was  ho- 
noured to  be  one  of  the  prime  publike  actors  in  that  worthy 
worke  of  our  Primitive  Reformation,"  Buchanan  says,  "  And 
because  some  singular  fruit,  more  then  ordinare,  is  expected 
from  him  who  lies  some  singular  enduements,  more  then  or- 
dinar  :  Therefore,  to  shew  to  the  world  how  farre  his  thoughts 
were  bussied  upon  the  good  of  Posteritie,  and  how  little  he  did 
live  to  himselfe,  he  brought  out  of  the  intrals  of  actions  many 
choise  and  worthie  secrets,  as  the  laudable  travels  of  his  pious 
and  judicious  minde,  the  truth  whereof  is  evidentlie  apparent 
throughout  the  whole  progresse  of  this  Church-Historie,  which 
may  justly  bee  published  and  sent  abroad  under  his  name,  be- 
cause the  most  jjart  thereof  hath  either  been  penned  with  his 
owne  hand,  or  spoken  and  uttered  by  the  word  of  his  mouth, 
or  gathered  and  collected  out  of  his  Papers  and  Manuscripts. 
His  Historicall  relations  are  without  partialitie.  Hee  hated  no 
man's  person,  no  not  the  enemie  but  his  sin.  And  therefore 
I  hope  his  unpartiall  expressions  shall  be  unseasonable  to  no 
good  man,  be  hee  never  so  great.  Wearie  not  then  in  reading, 
but  adventure  your  patience  as  he  lies  done  his  paines,  and  I 
doubt  not,  but  in  each  particular,  you  shall  get  such  a  full  and 
satisfactorie  information  of  the  truth,  that  you  shall  not  after- 
ward need  to  strike  fire,  and  light  your  candle  at  another  man's 
Torch.     But  to  returne  to  his  Life,"  &c. 

In  regard  to  the  authorship  of  this  Fifth  Book,  the  minute 


468  INTRODUCTORY  NOTICE  TO  BOOK  FIFTH. 

statement  of  facts,  tlie  occasional  modes  of  expression,  and  the 
above  declaration  by  the  Editor,  that  "  the  whole  History  is 
gathered  out  of  Knox's  Papers  and  Manuscripts,"  are  quite  op- 
posed to  the  general  notion  that  it  was  written  or  even  compiled 
by  David  Buchanan,  Neither  can  we  attribute  it  to  Knox's  Se- 
cretary, Richard  Bannatyne,  as  the  style  is  altogether  unlike 
that  of  the  "Journal  of  Transactions"  from  15  70  to  1573,  which 
has  been  published  under  his  name  ;  and  from  which  portions 
at  least  ought  to  be  included  in  a  collection  of  the  Reformer's 
Works.     This  will  form  part  of  the  concluding  volume. 

On  this  subject  the  Editor  of  1732,  after  remarking,  "  It  is 
not  easy  to  give  any  tolerable  account  of  the  Fifth  Book,"  says, 
"  It  seems  probable  that  Mr.  David  Buchanan  himself  is  the 
author  of  it :  perhaps  he  was  beholden  to  Mr.  Knox's  scrolls, 
but  I  wish  he  had  carefully  distinguished  Mr.  Knox's  compo- 
sure from  his  own,  and  forborn  his  interpolations  in  the  body  of 
the  History,  which  is  a  liberty  no  person  ought  to  take  with 
any  Author.  .  .  .  The  Editors,  (it  is  added,)  have  given 
the  Fifth  Book  as  Mr.  Buchanan  has  published  it,  and  leave  it 
to  the  Reader  to  value  it  as  he  finds  cause."  But  these  Editors 
have  taken  an  unusual  liberty,  which  they  have  not  specified, 
in  altering  the  language  to  correspond  to  the  more  antiquated 
orthography  of  the  Glasgow  MS.  of  the  Four  Books.  In  the 
present  edition,  the  text  is  given  from  that  of  London,  1 644. 

Although  persuaded  that  the  Fifth  Book  has  been  chiefly  de- 
rived from  Knox's  papers  by  some  unknown  hand,  yet,  as  it 
has  no  well-founded  claims  to  be  regarded  as  a  work  of  origi- 
nal AUTHORITY,  like  the  previous  Books,  I  have  not  thought  it 
necessary  to  devote  much  time  to  its  elucidation  by  encumber- 
ing the  pages  with  foot-notes ;  and  the  more  so,  as  the  period 
of  three  years  which  it  embraces,  has  been  so  fruitful  in  con- 
troversy, and  has  obtained  a  much  larger  share  of  literary 
investigation  than  perhaps  any  other  period  of  our  National 
History. 


:     469     ] 


In  tlie  next  monetli,  which  was  July,  the  Queen  went  into 
Athole  to  the  hunting ;  and  from  thence  she  made  her  pro- 
gress into  Murray,  and  returned  to  Fyfe  in  September.l     All 
this  while  there  was  appearance  of  love  and  tender  friendship 
betwixt  the  two  Queens ;  for  there  was  many  letters  full  of 
civility  and  complements  sent  from  either  of  them  to  the  other 
in  signe  of  amity  ;  besides  costly  presents  for  tokens.     And  in 
the  meantime  the  Earl  of  Lenox  2  laboured  to  come  home  forth  There  be 
of  England  ;  and  in  the  monetli  of  October  he  arrived  at  Ilaly-  grams  ex- 
rud-House,  where  he  was  graciously  received  by  the  Queen's  [g^*^^"*^" 
Majestic;    namely,    when   he    had    presented    the   Queen   ofG^eorgeBu- 
England  her  letters,  written  in  his  favour :   And  because  he  a  rich  dia- 
could  not  be  restored  to  his  lands  without  Act  of  Parliament,  from  Queen 
therefore  there  was  a  Parliament  procured  to  be  liolden  at  ^'"^^^  *° 

J-  Queen 

Edinburgh,  the  13.  day  of  December  r^  But  before  the  Queen  Elizabeth.* 
would  cause  to  proclaim  a  Parliament,  she  desired  the  Earle  of 
Murray,  by  Avhoso  means  chiefly  the  said  Earle  of  Lenox  came 

J  On  the   2oth   or  26th   September  In  an  abstract  of  a  letter  fi-om  Randolph 

1564  :  see  note  4,  page  420.  to  Cecil,  marked  3d  December  1564,  (an 

^  Matthew    Stewart,  fourth   Earl   of  evident  error  in  the  date  for  the  23d,)  we 

Lennox.  He  arrived  at  Edinburgh  on  the  read,  "  Lennox  restored  by  Parliament 

23d  September.     A  letter,  addressed  by  called  only  for  that  purpose.    The  Queen 

Queen  Mary  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  on  the  made  an  Oration  in  the  Pai'liament,shew- 

28th  of  that  month,  mentions,  that  he  ing  the  reason  of  restoring  Lennox ;  and 

had  presented  tlie  letters  of  Elizabeth,  tlie  rather,  because  it  was  at  the  request 

at  Holyrood-House,  on  the  previous  day.  and  suit    of   her    sister   of  England." 

(Tytler's  Hist.,  voL  vi.  p.  297;  Keith's  (Keith's  Hist.,  vol.  ii.  p.  259.)     On  the 

Hist.,  vol.  ii.  p.  233.)  15th,    Lennox's    restoration  was    pro- 

^  The  proceedings  of  this  Parliament  claimed   with   great  solemnity  at  the 

are  not  preserved,  and  the  day  of  meet-  Cross  of  Edinburgh, 
ing  is   vai'iously   stated.      Some  Acts  *  The  marginal  notes  in  this  Book  are 

passed  on  the  15th  December  are  re-  evidently  added  by  the  original  editor, 

corded.  (Acta  Pari.  Scot.  vol.  ii.  p.  545)  David  Buchanan. 


470 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  V. 


into  Scotland,  That  there  should  no  word  be  spoken,  or  at 
least  concluded,  that  concerned  Religion  in  the  Parliament. 
But  he  answered,  That  he  could  not  promise  it.  In  the  mean 
time,  the  Hamiltons  and  the  Earle  of  Lenox  were  agreed.^ 

At  the  day  appointed,  the  Parliament  was  held  at  Edin- 
burgh, where  the  said  Earle  of  Lenox  was  restored,  after  two 
and  twenty  years  exile :  He  was  banished,  and  forfeited  by 
the  Hamiltons,  when  they  had  the  rule.  There  were  some 
Articles  given  in  by  the  Church,  especially  for  the  abolishing 


1  In  Buchanan's  republication  of 
Knox's  History,  at  Edinbm-gh,  1644, 
this  and  the  next  paragraph  are  trans- 
posed to  the  end  of  Book  Fourth,  with 
two  additional  paragraphs,  for  the  pur- 
pose evidently  of  bringing  the  History 
down  to  the  close  of  the  year  1564. 
The  first  of  these,  as  follows,  occurs 
nearly  verbatim  in  Calderwood's  His- 
tory, vol.  ii.  p.  280 :  see  also  the  Book 
of  the  Kirk,  vol.  i.  p.  47. — 

"  Articles  and  Petitions. 
"  It  was  thought  good  by  the  Church 
Assembly  immediately  preceding  [viz. 
in  June  1564,]  and  conforme  to  the  Acts 
made  before  the  Queen's  arrivall,  and 
approven  since,  that  Christ's  true  Reli- 
gion bee  de  novo,  established,  ratified, 
and  approven  throughout  the  whole 
Realme;  And  that  all  Idolatry,  espe- 
cially the  Masse,  be  abolished  every 
where,  so  that  no  other  face  of  Religion 
be  suffered  to  be  erected  witliin  this 
Realme.  And  for  this  efl'ect,  that  the 
Ministrie  be  sufficiently  provided  with 
maintenance,  and  sure  appointment 
where  they  shall  take  up  thair  stipends. 
In  like  manner,  to  desire  that  the  trans- 
gressors of  the  said  Laws  bee  punished, 
specially  in  Aberdeen,  the  Karse  of 
Gowry,  Seyfield,  and  other  places  which 
shall  be  specified.  These  Articles  were 
appointed  to  bee  presented  to  the  Lords 
of  the   Secret  Councel.     The  Earls  of 


Murray,  Argyle,  Glencairne,  and  the 
Secretary  being  present,  and  sent  by 
the  Queene  to  obsei-ve  what  things  were 
propounded  in  the  Assembly,  thought 
not  good  that  the  Articles  should  be 
propounded  after  this  manner,  but  drew 
out  two  heads;  First,  they  would  de- 
clare the  good  mind  and  obedience  of 
the  Assembly ;  Next,  they  would  labour 
at  her  G[race's]  hands  for  settling  of 
Religion  according  to  the  order  estab- 
lished before  her  arrivall.  They  pro- 
mised also  to  deal  with  her  for  set  sti- 
pends. Lethington  returned  a  gracious 
answer  to  these  Heads.  It  was  appointed 
that  a  request  should  be  presented  to 
the  Queen  for  obtaining  the  gift  of  the 
Frier's  Kirk  of  Kirkcudbright,  to  be 
holden  hereafter  the  Parish  Kirk  of 
Kirkcudbright." 

The  second  paragraph  is  entitled, 

"  An  Answer  to  Paul  Methvem's 
Supplication. 

"  The  General  Assembly  of  the  Church 
conveened  at  Edinburgh  the  25.  of 
December,  the  exhortation  and  invoca- 
tion of  the  name  of  God  being  made  by 
John  Knox.  John  ^rskin  of  Dun,  Su- 
perintendent of  Angus  and  Mearnes,  was 
chosen  Moderator.  In  this  Assembly 
Paul  Methven's  supplication  anent  his 
receiving  to  repentance,  &c.,  was  read 
and  considered.  The  Brethren  were 
content  to  receive  liim,  providing  he  pre- 


15(J4-y.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  471 

of  the  Masse  universally,  and  for  punishment  of  vice  ;  but 
there  was  little  thing  granted,  save  that  it  was  Statute,  That 
scandalous  livers  should  be  j)unished  first  by  prison,  and  then 
publikely  shewen  unto  the  people  with  ignominy  ;  but  the 
same  was  not  put  in  execution. 

In  the  end  of  this  moneth  of  December,  the  Generall  As- 
sembly of  the  Church  was  held  at  Edinburgh  :2  many  things 
were  ordained  for  setling  of  the  affairs  of  the  Church. 

In  the  end  of  January  the  Queen  past  to  Fyfe,^  and  visiting 
the  Gentlemen's  houses,  was  magnificently  banquetted  every 
where,  so  that  such  superfluity  was  never  seen  before  within 
this  Realme  ;  which  caused  the  wilde  fowl  to  be  so  dear,  that 
partridges  were  sold  for  a  crown  a  piece.  At  this  time  was 
granted  by  an  Act  of  Parliament,  the  confirmation  of  the  feues 
of  Church  Lands,  at  the  desire  of  divers  Lords,  whereof  tlie 
Earle  of  Murray  was  chief  During  the  Queen's  absence,  the 
Papists  of  Edinburgh  went  down  to  the  Chappell  to  hear 
Masse  ;  and  seeing  there  was  no  punishment,  they  waxed  more 
bold :  some  of  them  thinking  thereby  to  please  the  Queen, 
upon  a  certain  Sunday  in  February,  they  made  an  Even-song  of 

sented  liimself  personally  before  tliem,  niiinicated    and    unreconciled    to    the 

and  shew  evident  signes  of  unfained  re-  Kirk,  hath  grievously  offended  them." 

pentance,  and  willingness  to  obey  such  This  paragraph  is  copied  nearly  cerba- 

a  forme  of  repentance  as  they  should  tim  from  the  Acts  of  Assembly,  27th 

enjoyne.    As  for  deleting  the  processe  December  1564.     (Book   of  the  Kirk, 

out  of  their  Books,  they  could  no  wayes  vol.  i.  p.  55.) 

condescend,  neither  thought  they  such  ^  The  General  Assembly  met  on  the 

a  Petition  could  proceed  of  the  Holy  25th  December  1564. 
Spirit,  seeing  David,  a  notable  servant  ^  The  Queen  left  Edinburgh   on  the 

of  God,  was  not  ashamed  to  leave  in  re-  19th  January  1564-5.     Randolph,  who 

gister  his  offence,  to  God's  glory  and  followed  soon  after,  transmitted  to  Eng- 

his  own  confusion.     Anent  his  adniis-  land  an  interesting  account  of  his  inter- 

sion  and  re-entrie  to  theMinistrie  with-  views  with  her  at  St.  Andrews.     (Chal- 

in  this  Realme,  it  was  ansuered.  That  mers'  Life   of  Queen  Mary,   vol.  i.  p. 

could  not  be  gi-anted  till  the  memorie  123-127.     Keith's  Hist.,  vol.  ii.  p.  261.) 

of  his  former  offence  were  more  deeply  She  afterwards  visited  Wemyss  Castle, 

buried,  and  some  particular  ICirks  with-  where  she  received  Darnley's  first  visit, 

in  the  Realme  made  request  for  him.  on  the  16th  February,  and  returned  to 

And,  further,  That   his   eutrie  in  the  the  Palace  of  Holyrood  on  the  24th  of 

Ministrio  of  England,  hee  being  excom-  that  month. 


472  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

their  own,  setting  two  Priests  on  the  one  side  of  the  quire, 
and  one  or  two  on  the  other  side,  with  Sandy  Stevin,  Menstrall, 
(baptizing  their  chiklren,  and  making  marriages,)  who,  within 
eight  days  after,  convinced  of  blasphemy,  alleadging,  That  he 
wonkl  give  no  more  credit  to  the  New  Testament  than  to  a 
tale  of  Robin  Hood,i  except  it  were  confirmed  by  the  Doctors 
of  the  Church.  The  said  superstitious  Even-song  was  the  occa- 
sion of  a  great  slander,  for  many  were  offended  with  it ;  which 
being  by  the  Brethren  declared  to  the  Lords  of  the  Privy 
Councell,  especially  to  the  Earle  of  Murray,  who  lamented  the 
cause  to  the  Queen's  Majestic,  shewing  her  what  inconveniency 
should  come  if  such  things  were  suifered  unpunished:  And, 
after  sharp  reasoning,  it  was  promised.  That  the  like  should 
not  be  done  hereafter :  The  Queen  also  alleadged.  That  they 
were  a  great  number  ;  and  that  she  could  not  trouble  their 
conscience. 

About  the  20.  of  this  moneth,  arrived  at  Edinburgh,  Henry 
Stewart,  Lord  Darnley  ;2  from  thence  he  passed  to  Fyffe :  And 
in  the  place  of  Weenies  he  was  admitted  to  kisse  the  Queen's 
hand ;  whom  she  liked  so  well,  that  she  preferred  him  before 
all  others,  as  shall  hereafter,  God  willing,  be  declared.  Soon 
after,  in  the  moneth  of  March,  the  Earle  Bothwell  arrived  out 
of  France  ;  whereat  the  Earle  of  Murray  was  highly  offended, 
because  of  the  evil  report  made  to  him  of  the  Lord  Bothwell ; 

1  Randolph,  in  a  letter  to  Cecil,  dated  desire  alteration,  that  it  is  continually 
20th  March  1564-5,  refers  to  the  exces-  feared  that  these  matters  will  shortly 
ses  of  both  parties  at  this  time ;  and  in  break  out  to  some  greater  mischief." 
particular,  that  "  one  of  the  Queen's  ^  Henry  Lord  Daiialey,  then  in  the 
chappel,  a  singing  man,  said,  that  he  twentieth  year  of  liis  age,  arrived  in 
believed  as  well  a  tale  of  Robin  Hood  Edinburgh,  on  the  13th February  1564-5. 
as  any  word  is  written  in  the  Old  Tes-  After  visiting  the  Queen  at  Wemyss 
tament  or  New."  He  further  adds,  the  Castle,  m  Fife,  on  'the  16th,  he  pro- 
Queen's  "  own  Mass,  and  the  resort  in-  cecded  to  Dmikeld,  where  his  father  the 
to  it;  such  blasphemies  as  there  un-  Earl  of  Lennox  was  residing;  but  he 
punished ;  her  will  to  continue  Papistry,  hastened  back  to  Edinburgh  to  wait  the 
and  her  desire  to  have  all  men  live  as  Queen's  arrival  at  Holyrood. — In  both 
they  list,  so  oflfendeth  the  godly  men's  edit.  1644,  his  name  is  always  printed 
consciences,  and  so  many  besides  that  "  Darley." 


1564-5.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  473 

and  passing  immediately  to  the  Queen's  Majestic,  demanded  of 
her,  If  it  was  her  will,  or  by  her  advice,  that  he  was  come  home ; 
and  seeing  he  was  his  deadly  enemy,  either  he  or  the  other 
should  leave  the  countrey,  and  therefore  desired  that  he  might 
have  justice.  Her  answer  was,  That  seeing  the  Earle  Both- 
well  was  a  nobleman,  and  had  done  her  service,  she  could  not 
hate  him :  Nevertheless  she  would  do  nothing  that  might  be 
prejudiciall  to  the  Erie  of  Murray,  but  desired  that  the  matter 
might  be  taken  away.  Within  few  days  she  caused  summon 
the  Earle  Both  well  to  ansAver  to  the  course  of  law  the  2d  of 
May,  for  the  conspiracy  which  the  Earle  of  Arrane  had  alledg- 
ed  two  years  before,  and  for  the  breaking  of  the  ward  of  the 
Castle.  In  the  meanwhile  there  was  nothing  in  the  Court  but 
banquetting,  balling,  and  dancing,  and  other  such  pleasures  as 
were  meet  to  provoke  the  disordered  appetite  ;  and  all  for  the 
entertainment  of  the  Queen's  cousin  from  England,  the  Lord 
Darnley,  to  whom  she  did  shew  all  the  expressions  imaginable 
of  love  and  kindenesse.i 

Witliin  few  days,  the  Queen  being  at  Sterlin,  order  was 
given  to  Secretary  Lethington  to  pass  to  the  Queen  of  England. 
The  chief  point  of  his  message  was,  to  declare  to  the  Queen  of 
England,  That  the  Queen  was  minded  to  marry  her  cousin  the 
Lord  Darnley  ;  and  the  rather,  because  he  was  so  near  of  blood 
to  both  Queens :  for  by  his  mother,  he  was  cousin-german  to 
the  Queen  of  Scotland,  also  of  near  kindred,  and  of  the  same 
name  by  his  father :  His  mother  was  cousin-gemian  to  the 
Queen  of  England.  Here  mark  God's  providence:  King  James 
the  Fifth  having  lost  his  two  sons,  did  declare  his  resolution 
to  make  the  Earle  of  Lenox  his  heir  of  the  Crown ;  but  he 
prevented  by  sudden  death,  that  design  ceased.     Then  came 

1  Within  a  month  of  Darnley's  airival  thington's  mission  to  the  English  Court, 

in  Scotland,  Queen  Mary  had  fixed  her  He  had  arrived  there  on  the  18th  April, 

affections  on  him,  as  her  proposed  hus-  and  had  retui-ned  to  Edinburgh  on  the 

band,  and  to  communicate  this  to  Queen  13th  May  1565.      (Chalmers's  Life  of 

Elizabeth,  was  the  main  object  of  Le-  Queen  Mary,  vol.  iii.  p.  551.) 


474  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

tlie  Earle  of  Lenox  from  France,  with  intention  to  marry 
King  James  his  widow  ;  but  that  failed  also  :  He  marries  Maryl 
Dowglas,  and  his  son  marrieth  Mary,  King  James  the  Fifth  his 
daughter.  And  so  the  King's  desire  is  fulfilled,  to  wit,  The 
Crown  continueth  in  the  name  and  in  the  family.  The  Queen 
of  England,  nevertheless,  shewed  her  self  nothing  pleased 
therewith,  but  rather  declared.  That  she  would  in  no  wise 
suffer  her  subjects  to  make  such  contracts  or  alliance  that 
might  be  prejudiciall  to  her ;  and  for  the  same  purpose  sent  a 
post  to  the  Queen  with  letters,  wherein  she  complained  greatly 
of  the  mind  of  our  Mistris,  seeing  the  great  affection  she  bare 
to  her,  intending  to  declare  her  heretrix  of  her  Realme  of 
England,  providing  only  that  she  would  use  her  counsell  in 
marriage  ;  but  she  could  not  approve  her  Marriage  with  the 
Lord  Darnley,  although  he  was  their  near  cousin  by  birth,  since 
he  Avas  below  the  rank  of  the  Queen  by  condition,  being  but  a 
private  subject.  At  the  same  time  she  wrote  to  the  Earle  of 
Lenox,  and  to  his  son,  commanding  them  to  repair  both  into 
England.  Some  write.  That  all  this  was  but  counterfeit  by 
the  Queen  of  England,  and  from  her  heart  she  was  glad  of  tlic 
marriage,  for  by  that  means  the  Succession  of  the  Crown  of 
England  was  secured,  the  Lord  Darnley  being  the  right 
heir  after  the  Queen  of  Scotland :  and  Queen  Elizabeth 
was  not  angry  to  see  her  married  to  one  of  inferior  rank, 
for  by  that  means  she  thought  the  Scots  Queen  would  be  less 
proud. 

During  this  time  there  were  certain  letters  directed  to  the 
Brethren  of  Edinburgh,  to  Dundie,  Fyfe,  Angus,  and  Mernes, 
and  other  places,  from  the  Brethren  of  Kyle,  and  other  places 
in  the  West  Countrey,  desiring  the  professors  of  the  Evangel 
in  all  places,  to  remember  what  the  Eternall  God  had  wrought, 
and  how  potently  he  had  abolished  all  kind  of  idolatry  and 
superstition,  and  placed  his  word  in  this  Realm,  so  that  no 

'   An  error  in  botli  edit.  1044.  lor  Lady  Margaret  Douglas  :  see  page  oai),  note  '2. 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  47o 

man  could  say  otherwise  but  it  was  the  work  of  God,  wlio  also 
had  delivered  this  countrey  from  the  bondage  and  tyranny  of 
strangers  :  Nevertheless  by  our  slothfulness,  we  have  suffered 
that  idol  the  Masse  not  only  to  be  planted  again,  but  to  in- 
crease so,  that  the  maintainors  thereof  are  like,  by  all  appear- 
ance, to  get  the  upper  hand,  which  would  be  the  occasion  of 
our  destruction  :  And  for  that  the  Papists  purposed  to  set  up 
their  idol  at  Easter  following,  in  all  places,  which  was  to  be 
imputed  to  tlie  slothfulness  and  want  of  godly  zeal  of  the  pro- 
fessors. Therefore  they  admonished  the  Brethren  to  strive  to 
avert  the  evil  in  time,  and  not  to  suffer  such  wickedness  to 
continue  and  encrease,  lest  God's  heavy  wrath  come  upon  us 
unawares  like  a  consuming  fire.  By  these  letters  many  Breth- 
ren were  animated,  and  their  spirits  wakened,  minding  to  pro- 
vide as  God  should  give  them  grace.  And  first  of  all,  by  the 
advice  of  the  most  learned  in  Edinburgh,  there  was  a  Sup- 
plication made,  and  given  to  the  Queen's  Majestic  by  the 
Superintendent  of  Lowthian,  containing,  in  effect.  That  the 
Church  in  generall  of  the  Realme,  had  divers  times  most 
humbly  craved  of  her  Majesty,  That  committers  of  adultery 
should  be  punished  according  to  the  law  of  God  and  the  Acts  At  this 
of  Parliament,  nevertheless  they  continued  in  their  wickednes;  iJan^l named 
and  the  Papists,  of  obstinate  malice,  pretended  notliing  else  J^^gjf  j^°" 

but  to  erect  and  set  up  their  idolatry  and  superstition ;  and  gi-eat  fomi- 

•   n  Ti  1         />  n       •  1  •  11  1      li'T-i'ity  with 

especially  at  Easter  day  following,  they  intended  to  put  the  the  Queen, 

same  in  practice,  which  the  Brethren  and  Professors  of  the  tLi-rwas 
Evangel  could  not  suffer  ;  therefore  wished   her   Majestic  to  notliing 
take  heed  of  the  matter.  out  him. 

This  Supplication  the  Secretary  received  of  the  hands  of  the 
Superintendents  of  Lowthian  and  Glasgow,  and  told  them,  in 
the  Queen^  name.  That  there  should  be  such  provision  made 
as  should  serve  to  their  contentment :  And  for  the  same  pur- 
pose, the  Queen's  Majestic  writ  to  all  such  places  as  were  sus- 
pected, especially  to  the  Bishop  of  Saint  Andrewes  and  Abei- 


476  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

deine,  (as  was  said,)  not  to  use  any  Masse,  and  that  they 
sliould  not  do  any  such  tiling  as  M^as  feared  by  the  Protestants, 
or  convene  any  Councell,  and  thereto  commanded  them.  Now 
the  Communion  was  administred  in  Edinburgh,  the  1st  day  of 
April  1565 :  At  which  time,  because  it  was  near  Easter,  the 
Papists  used  to  meet  at  their  Masse  ;  and  as  some  of  the 
Brethren  were  diligent  to  search  such  things,  they  having  with 
them  one  of  the  Bayliffs,  took  one  Sir  James  Carvet,  riding 
liard,  as  he  had  now  ended  the  saying  of  the  Masse,  and  con- 
veyed him,  together  with  the  master  of  the  house,  and  one  or 
two  more  of  the  assistants,  to  the  Tolbuith,  and  immediately 
revested  him  with  all  his  garments  upon  him,  and  so  carried 
him  to  the  Market-Crosse,  where  they  set  him  on  high,  bind- 
ing the  chalice  in  his  hand,  and  himself  fast  tyed  to  the  said 
Crosse,  where  he  tarried  the  space  of  one  hour  ;  during  which 
time  the  boyes  served  him  with  his  Easter  eggs.  The  next 
day  following,  the  said  Carvet,  with  his  assistants,  were  ac- 
cused and  convinced  by  an  assize,  according  to  the  Act  of 
Parliament :  And  albeit  for  the  same  offence  he  deserved 
death,  yet  for  all  punishment,  he  was  set  upon  the  Market- 
Crosse  for  the  space  of  three  or  four  hours,  the  hangman  stand- 
ing by,  and  keeping  him,  the  boyes  and  others  were  busie  with 
eggs  casting ;  and  some  Papists  there  were  that  stopped  as  far 
as  they  could :  And  as  the  presse  of  people  encreased  about 
the  Crosse,  there  appeared  to  have  been  some  tumult.  The 
Provost,  Archibald  Dowglas,  came  with  some  Halberdiers,  and 
carried  the  Priest  safe  againe  to  the  Tolbuith.  The  Queen 
being  advertised,  and  having  received  sinister  information  that 
the  Priest  was  dead,  suddenly  thought  to  have  used  and  in- 
flicted some  extreme  punishment ;  for  she  thought  that  all  this 
was  done  in  contempt  of  her,  and  of  her  Religion ;  and  it  was 
affirmed.  That  the  Towne  should  have  been  sacked,  and  a 
oreat  number  executed  to  death  :  she  sent  to  such  as  she 
plcassed,  commanding  them  to  come  to  her  at  Edinburgh  sud- 


15G5.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  477 

denly  with  their  whole  forces  ;  and  in  tlie  mean  time  she  sent 
lier  Advocate,  Master  Spence  of  Condie,  to  Edinburgh,  to  take 
a  sure  triall  of  the  matter.  The  Provost  and  Councell  wrote 
to  the  Queen  the  truth  of  the  matter  as  it  was,  desiring  her 
Majestie  to  take  the  same  in  good  part,  and  not  to  give  credit 
to  false  reports,  and  therewith  sent  to  her  Majestie  the  processe 
and  enrolment  of  the  Court  of  the  Priest  convict.  Thus  the 
Queen's  Majestie  being  informed  of  the  truth  by  her  said  Advo- 
cate, sent  againe,  and  stayed  the  said  meeting  of  men,  and  sent 
to  the  Town  a  grave  Letter,  whereof  the  copie  foUoweth  : — 

The  Queens  Letter  to  the  Provest,  Bailife,  and  Councell 
of  Edinhurgh. 
"  Provest,  Bayliffe,  and  Councell  of  our  Citie  of  Edinburgh, 
We  received  your  letter  from  our  Advocate,  and  understand  by 
this  report  what  diligence  you  took  to  stay  the  tumult  in  the 
late  disorder  attempted  at  Edinburgh ;  wherein,  as  you  did 
your  duty  in  suppressing  the  tumult,  so  can  We  not  take  in 
good  part,  nor  think  our  self  satisfied  of  so  notorious  a  thing, 
without  certain  seditious  persons,  who  were  pleased  to  do 
justice  perforce  and  without  the  Magistrates  authoritie,  be 
condignly  and  really  punished  for  their  rashnesse  and  misbe- 
haviour ;  for  if  all  private  persons  should  usurpe  to  take  ven- 
geance at  their  own  hands,  what  lies  in  ours  ?  And  to  what 
purpose  hath  good  laws  and  statutes  been  established  ?  Since, 
therefore,  We  have  never  been  obstinate  to  the  due  punishment 
of  any  oifenders,  prescribed  by  the  lawes,  but  have  alwayes 
maintained  justice  in  that  case  without  respect  of  persons,  it 
is  our  will,  and  We  command  you,  as  you  will  answer  to  us 
upon  your  obedience  and  allegiance,  that  you  will  take  before 
you  certane  of  the  most  responsall  persons  which  are  declared 
authors  of  the  said  sedition,  and  usurj^ers  of  our  authority,  and 
to  administer  justice  upon  them,  in  such  sort  as  We  may  know 
a  sinceritie  on  your  parts,  and  our  authority  no  wayes  slighted. 


478  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

But  if  you  faile,  perswade  your  selves,  (and  that  shortly,)  We 
will  not  oversee  it,  but  will  account  this  contempt  not  only  to 
be  in  the  committers  thereof,  but  in  yourselves,  who  ought  to 
punish  it,  and  relieve  us  on  our  part,  remitting  the  rest  to 
your  diligence  and  execution,  which  We  look  for  so  soon  as 
reason  will  permit. 

'•'  Subscribed  with  our  hand  at  Sterlin,  this  24.  of  April, 
Anno  1565." 

By  this  manner  of  writing  and  higli  threatning,  may  be 
perceived  how  grievously  the  Queen's  Majestic  would  have 
been  offended  if  the  said  Tarbot^  and  Messe-monger  had  been 
handled  according  to  his  demerite,  being  not  only  a  Papist 
idolater,  but  a  manifest  whoremaster,  and  a  common  fighter 
and  blasphemer ;  nevertheless,  within  few  dayes  the  Queen 
charged  the  Provest  and  Bailiffs  to  set  him  at  libertie,  com- 
manding them  further,  that  no  man  should  trouble  nor  molest 
him  in  any  sort  for  whatsoever  cause,  and  soon  after  rewarded 
him  Avith  a  benefice,  and  likewise  his  assisters,  John  Low  and 
John  Kennedie,  set  at  libertie  in  the  same  manner.  At  this 
Easter-tyde,  in  Sterlin,  the  Queen  made  her  domestick  servants 
use  Papisticall  rites  and  ceremonies,  and  more,  she  perswaded 
others  by  faire  means  to  do  the  same,  and  threatned  those  that 
were  most  constant  at  the  Earle  of  Cassels  house. 

Upon  the  second  day  of  May  1565,  conveened  at  Edinburgh, 
the  Earl  of  Murray  with  his  friends  in  great  numbers,  to  keej^e 
the  day  of  law  against  the  Earle  of  Bothwell ;  who  being  called, 
appeared  not,  only  the  Laird  of  Rickerton  protested.  That  the 
personall  absence  of  the  Earle  Bothwell  should  not  be  prejudi- 
ciall  to  him,  by  reason,  that  for  just  fear,  which  might  happen  in 
the  heart  of  any  man,  since  he  had  so  potent  an  enemy  as  the 
Lord  of  Murray,  who,  next  the  Queen's  Majesty,  was  of  greatest 
estimation  and  authority  of  any  man  Avithin  this  Realm,  to 

'  .So  in  both  cflit.  1()44;  but  .atiiage  470,  the  name  is  "  Cavvct." 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  479 

wliom  assisted  at  this  present  day  of  law,  seven  or  eight 
liundred  men,  which  force  lie  could  not  resist,  and  therefore 
had  absented  himself ;  Avhich  protestation  being  made,  those 
that  had  been  sureties  for  his  appearance,  were  outlawed. 
The  said  Earle  Bothwell,  a  few  dayes  after,  past  into  France, 
after  he  had  been  in  Liddesdale,  where,  suspecting  almost 
every  man,  he  was  not  in  great  assurance  of  his  life,  notwith- 
standing he  was  not  put  to  the  home  ;  for  the  Queen  con- 
tinually bore  a  great  favour  towards  him,  and  kept  him  to  be 
a  souldier,  as  appeared  within  lesse  than  half  a  year  ;  for  she 
would  not  suffer  the  Lord  Morton,  nor  my  Lord  Ariskin,  my 
Lord  of  Murray's  great  friends,  to  keep  the  day.  There  assisted 
my  Lord  of  Murray,  the  Earles  of  Argyle,  Glencarne,  and 
Crawford,  with  great  numbers,  and  many  Lords  and  Barons, 
who  for  the  most  part  conveened  the  same  afternoon  to  treat 
and  consult  for  the  maintaining  of  Religion  ;  where  some 
articles  were  devised,  and  delivered  to  the  Lord  of  Murray  to 
be  presented  to  the  Queen's  Majestie  and  Privie  Councell ; 
which  articles  were  enlarged  at  the  Generall  Assembly  follow- 
ing, as  shall  be  declared. 

In  the  meane  time,  as  they  were  informed  in  Court  of  this 
great  Assembly  of  people  in  Edinburgh,  they  were  affraid,  for 
naturally  the  Queen  hated  and  suspected  all  such  Conventions 
as  were  not  in  her  own  presence,  and  devised  by  her  self 
The  chief  Counsellors  in  the  Court  w^ere  the  Earls  of  Lenox 
and  Athole.  The  Queen  writ  incontinent  for  all  the  Lords 
to  come  to  Sterlin,  so  soone  as  she  was  advertised  that  they 
had  treated  in  Edinburgh  of  Religion ;  she  writ  likewise  for 
the  Superintendants  and  other  learned  men  who  went  thither, 
and  being  there,  they  caused  to  keep  the  ports  or  gates,  and 
make  good  watch  about  the  towne.  The  speciall  cause  of 
this  Convention  was  to  give  to  the  Lord  Darnley  title  of 
honour,  openly  and  solemnly,  with  consent  of  the  Nobles, 
before  the  marriasce. 


480  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

The  fourth  day  of  May  the  Earle  of  Murray  came  to  Sterliii, 
where  he  was  well  received  by  the  Queen's  Majestic,  as  ap- 
peared ;  and  immediately,  as  he  past  with  her  to  my  Lord 
Damley's  chamber,  they  presented  to  him  a  contract,  contain- 
ing in  effect,  That  forasmuch,  as,  or  since,  the  Queen  had 
contracted  marriage  with  the  Lord  Darnley,  and  that  there- 
fore sundry  Lords  of  the  Nobilitie  had  under-written,  ratified, 
and  approved  the  same,  and  obliged  themselves  to  grant  unto 
liira  in  full  Parliament  the  Crowne  Matrimoniall,  (by  a  nevv 
Court  solecisme  in  policie,  the  Crowne  for  the  second  time  is 
surnamed  Matrimoniall ;  before,  when  the  Queen  was  first  mar- 
ried, it  was  so  called  also,)  to  serve  and  obey  him  and  her  as 
their  lawfuU  Soveraignes.  The  Queen  desired  my  Lord  Murray 
to  subscribe,  as  many  others  had  done  before  ;  which  hee  re- 
fused to  do,  "  Because,  (said  he,)  it  is  required  necessarily  that 
the  whole  Nobility  be  present,  at  least  the  principall,  and  such 
as  he  himself  was  posteriour  unto,  before  that  so  grave  a  mat- 
ter should  be  advised  and  concluded." 

The  Queen's  Majesty  no  wayes  content  with  this  answer,  in- 
sisted still  upon  him,  saying,  The  greatest  part  of  the  Nobilitie 
were  there  present  and  content  with  the  matter,  wished  him 
to  be  so  much  a  Stewart,  as  to  consent  to  the  keeping  of  the 
Crown  in  the  family,  and  the  surname,  according  to  their 
Father's  will  and  desire,  as  was  said  of  him  a  little  before  his 
death :  But  he  still  refused  for  the  causes  above  written. 

Now  as  the  Lords  were  assembled,  an  Ambassadour  from 
England,  named  Sir  Nicholas  Throckmorton,^  arrived  at  Sterlin, 

^  Throckmorton,  in  his  letter  to  the  some  time  before  the  gate,  there  came 

Queen  of  England,  on   the  20th  May  unto  me  the  Master  of  Arskine  and  the 

1565,  mentions  that  he  reached  Edin-  Justice-Clerk,  who  desired  me,  in  the 

burgh  on  the  13th,  and  Stirling  on  the  Queen  their  Mistress's  behalf,  to  retire 

morning  of  15th  May;    when,  he  says,  unto  my  lodging  which  was  appointed 

"  At  my  arrival  at  the  Castle,  the  gates  in  the  town,  saying,  that  after  I  had 

were  shut  against  me,  whether  it  pre-  reposed  myself,  the  Queen  did  mind  to 

ceeded  from  fear,  or  of  some  other  pas-  give  me  audience."     (Keith's  History, 

sion,   I   know   not.     I  thus  remaining  vol.  ii.  p.  279.) 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  481 

and  in  his^  company  the  Laird  of  Lethington  ;  the  Ambas- 
sador was  at  the  Castle  gate  or  ever  they  were  aware ;  and  as 
Jie  stood  there  in  the  entry,  he  was  desired  to  passe  to  his 
lodgings.  The  next  day  he  had  audience  of  the  Queen,  and 
was  graciously  received  according  to  the  dignity  of  his  mes- 
sage. The  whole  summe  of  this  his  message  was,  to  shew  and 
declare  to  the  Queen,  how  highly  the  Queen  his  mistris  was 
offended  with  this  precipitated  marriage,  and  wondered  what 
had  moved  her  to  take  a  man  of  inferiour  rank  and  condition 
to  her  selfe:  and  therefore  disswaded  her  therefrom.  And 
specially  desiring  her  most  earnestly  to  send  home  her  sub- 
jects, the  Earle  of  Lennox  and  the  Lord  Damley  :  but  all  in 
vaine  ;  for  the  matter  was  well  farre  proceeded.  In  her  heart 
Queen  Elizabeth  was  not  angiy  at  this  marriage ;  first,  because 
if  Queen  Mary  had  married  a  foraign  Prince,  it  had  been  an 
accesse  to  her  greatnesse,  and  consequently  she  had  been  more 
redoubted  by  the  other ;  next,  both  Hariy  and  Mary  were 
alike  and  in  equall  degree  of  consanguinitie  unto  her,  the 
father  of  Maiy  and  the  mother  of  Harry  being  children  to  her 
Father's  sister. 

With  many  fair  words  the  Queen  let  the  Ambassadour  depart, 
promising  to  do  all  she  could  to  satisfie  the  Queen  of  England ; 
and  for  the  same  jDurpose  she  would  send  an  Ambassador  to 
her. 

In  the  meane  time  the  Queen's  marriage  with  the  Lord 
Darnley  was  prepared  and  propounded  in  Councell,  and  the 
chief  of  the  Nobilitie,  such  as  the  Duke,  the  Earles  of  Argyle, 
Murray,  Glencarne,  with  the  rest,  granted  freely  to  the  same,  ?'^^^.^^''^  ^^ 
providing  that  they  might  have  the  Religion  established  in  seeing  the 
Parliament,  by  the  Queene,  and   the   idolatrous   Masse   and  Nobles  con- 
Superstition  abolished ;   shortly  it  was  concluded,  that  they  y^*^^^^.^^ 
should  convene  again  to  Saint  Johnstoun,  where  the  Queen  before  he 
promised  to  take  a  finall  order  for   Religion.     The  day  was 
appointed,  to  wit,  the  last  of  May,  at  Perth  :    my  Lord   of 

VOL.  II.  2  H 


482  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

Argile  came  too  late.  The  Queen's  Majestie  communed  with 
the  Lords,  who  were  veiy  plain  with  her,  saying,  Except  the 
Masse  were  abolished,  there  should  be  no  quietnesse  in  the 
countrey.  The  twelfth  day  of  May  the  Lord  Darnley  was 
belted,  (that  is,  created)  Earle  of  Rosse,  with  great  solemnity, 
a  belt  or  girdle  being  tyed  about  his  waist  or  middle ;  and 
albeit  all  kinde  of  provision  was  made  to  make  him  Duke  of 
Rothesay,  yet  at  that  time  it  came  not  to  effect,  albeit  the 
crown  and  robe-royall  were  prepared  to  him  for  the  same. 
For  the  entertainment  of  this  triumph  there  were  many 
Knights  made,  to  the  number  of  fourteen.l  The  next  day, 
which  was  the  thirteenth  of  May,  the  Queen  called  for  the 
Superintendants,  by  name  John  Willock,  John  Win  ram,  and 
John  Spotswood,  whom  she  cherished  with  faire  words,  assuring 
them,  that  she  desired  nothing  more  earnestly  than  the  glory 
of  God,  and  satisfying  of  men's  consciences,  and  the  good  of  the 
Commonwealth  ;  and  albeit  she  was  not  perswaded  in  any  Re- 
ligion but  in  that  wherein  she  was  brought  up,  yet  she  pro- 
mised to  them  that  she  would  hear  conference  and  disputation 
in  the  Scriptures  :  And  likewise  she  would  be  content  to  hear 
publike  preaching,  but  alwayes  out  of  the  mouth  of  such  as 
pleased  her  Majestie  ;  and  above  aU  others,  she  said,  she  would 
gladly  hear  the  Superintendant  of  Angus,  (for  he  was  a  mild 
and  sweet  natured  man,)  with  true  honesty  and  uprightnesse, 
John  Ariskin^  of  Dun, 

Soon  after  the  Queen  past  to  Saint  Johnston,  after  that  she 
had  directed  Master  John  Hay,^  Prior  of  Monimusk,  to  passe 
to  England,  who  sped  at  the  Queen  of  England's  hand,  even 
as  Sir  Nicholas  Throckmorton  did  in  Scotland. 

1  According  to  a  memorial  transmitted  "  In  the  Lond.  edit.  1644,  "  Sir  Aris- 
by  Sir  Nicholas  Throckmorton  to  Queen  kin ;"  in  the  Edinb.  edit.  "  Sir  jErskin." 
Elizabeth,  this  ceremony  took  place  at  ^  ]\jp_  John  Hay  was  Master  of  Re- 
Stirling  on  the  15th  May;  and  he  enu-  quests,  a  Privy  Counsellor,  and  Com- 
merates  the  names  and  titles  of  the  mendator  of  BaLmerinoch.  He  died  on 
fourteen  Knights.  (Keith's  History,  vol.  the  3d  December  1573.  (Register  of 
ii.  p.  289.)  Confirmed  Testaments.) 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  483 

Before  the  day  whicli  was  appointed  for  the  meeting  at 
Saint  Johnston,  my  Lord  of  Murray,  most  carefull  of  the 
maintenance  of  Religion,  sent  to  all  the  principall  Churches, 
advertising  them  of  the  matter,  and  desiring  them  to  advise, 
and  send  the  most  able  men  in  learning  and  reputation,  to 
keep  the  day  ;  but  their  craft  and  dissimulation  appeared,  for 
the  Dean  of  Restalrigge  who  lately  arrived  out  of  France,^  with 
others,  such  as  Mr,  John  Lesley,  Parson  of  Oyne,2  afterward 
Bishop  of  Rosse,  caused  the  Queen  to  understand  that  thing 
whereof  she  was  easily  perswaded,  to  wit,  That  there  ought  to 
be  given  to  all  men  libertie  of  conscience,  and  for  this  purpose 
to  shun  or  put  oiF  the  first  day  appointed.  The  Queen  writ  to 
the  Nobility,  That  because  she  Avas  informed  that  there  was 
great  meetings  out  of  every  shire  and  town  in  great  number ; 
and  then  the  other  partie,  (so  termed  she  the  Papists,)  were 
minded  to  gether  to  the  said  Convention,  which  should  appa- 
rently make  trouble  or  sedition,  rather  than  any  other  thing  ; 
therefore  she  thought  it  expedient,  and  willed  them  to  stay 
the  said  meetings,  and  to  deferre  the  same  till  such  a  day  that 
she  should  appoint  with  advice  of  her  Councell.  At  this 
time  there  was  a  Parliament  proclaimed  to  be  held  at  Edin- 
burgh the  twentieth  day  of  July.  By  this  Letter,  some  of  the 
Protestants  having  bes't  judgement,  thought  themselves  suffi- 
ciently warned  of  the  inconveniences  and  troubles  to  come. 
Now  her  Councell  at  this  time  was  only  the  Earles  of  Lenox 
and  Athole,  the  Lord  Ruthven,  but  chiefely  David  Rizio  the 
Italian  ruled  all ;  yet  the  Earle  of  Rosse  ^  [was]  already  in 
greatest  credit  and  familiarity. 

These  Letters  were  sent  out  to  the  Lords  about  the  eight 

1  Queen  Mary  applied  for  a  safe  con-  '  In  both  edit.  1644,  Lesley  is  called 

duct  to  "  Maister  John  Sinclaii-,  Deane  "  Parson  of  Vure,"  an  error  for  Une,  or 

of  Restalrig,  being  from  the  partes  of  Oyne,  in  Abei-deenshire :  see  the  Appen- 

France,  and  willing  to  returne  hame-  dix  to  this  volume, 

ward,"  18th  September  1564.     (Laba-  ^  Henry  Lord  Darnley :  see  page  495. 
noflf,  Recueil,  vol.  i.  p.  227.) 


484  THE  HISTORY  OP  Book  V. 

and  twentieth  day  of  May ;  and  within  twelve  dayes  there- 
after, she  directed  new  missives  to  the  chief  of  the  Nobility, 
desiring,  or  commanding  them,  to  come  to  Saint  Johnston  the 
three  and  twentieth  day  of  June  following,  to  consult  upon 
such  things  as  concerned  Religion,  and  other  things,  as  her 
Majesty  should  propose  ;  Which  day  was  even  the  day  before 
that  the  Generall  Assembly  should  have  been  held  in  Edin- 
burgh, This  last  Letter  uttered  the  effect  of  the  former  ;  so 
that  the  Protestants  thought  themselves  sufficiently  warned. 
Always  as  the  Earle  of  Murray  was  passing  to  Saint  John- 
ston to  have  kept  the  said  day,  he  chanced  to  fall  sick  of  the 
fluxes  in  Lochleven,  where  he  remained  till  the  Queen  came 
forth  of  Saint  Johnston  to  Edinburgh,  where  the  Generall  As- 
sembly of  the  whole  Church  of  Scotland  was  held  the  four  and 
twentieth  day  of  July.^  The  Earles  of  Argyle  and  Glencarne 
assisted  the  Church,  with  a  great  company  of  Lords,  Barons, 
and  others:  It  was  there  ordered  and  concluded.  That  cer- 
tain Gentlemen,  as  Commissioners  from  the  Church  National, 
should  passe  to  the  Queen's  Majestic,  with  certain  Articles, 
to  the  number  of  six,  desiring  her  most  humbly  to  ratifie 
and  approve  the  same  in  Parliament. 

And  because  the  said  Articles  are  of  great  weight,  and 
worthy  of  memory,  I  thought  good  to  insert  the  same  word  by 
word.2 

Imprimis,  That  the  Papisticall  and  blasphemous  Masse,  with 
all  Papisticall  idolatry,  and  Papall  jurisdiction,  be  universally 
supprest  and  abolisht  thorowout  this  Realme,  not  only  in  the 
subjects,  but  also  in  the  Queen's  own  person,  with  punishment 
against  all  persons  that  should  be  deprehended  to  transgresse 
and  offend   in   the    same :     And   that    the   sincere   word   of 

*  The  General  Assembly  met  at  Edin-  John   'Willock,    Christopher   Goodman, 

burgh,  on  the  25th  June  1565.  and  John  Row;  and,  on  the  following 

2  The   Articles   here   inserted   were  day,  they  received  the  Assembly's  ap- 

drawn   up   by   John  Erskine  of  Dun,  probation. 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  485 

God,  and  Christ's  true  Religion,  now  at  this  present  received, 
be  established,  approved,  and  ratified,  thorowout  the  whole 
Realme,  as  well  in  the  Queen's  own  person  as  in  the  subjects : 
And  that  the  people  be  [astricted]  to  resort  upon  the  Sun- 
days at  the  least,  to  the  prayers  and  preaching  of  God's  word, 
even  as  they  were  before  to  the  idolatrous  Masse  :  And  these 
Heads  to  be  provided  by  Act  of  Parliament,  and  ratified  by 
the  Queen's  Majesty. 

Secondly,  That  [sure]  provision  be  made  for  sustentation  of 
the  Ministry,  as  well  for  the  time  present,  as  the  time  to  come : 
And  that  such  persons  as  are  presently  admitted  to  the  Minis- 
try, may  have  their  livings  assigned  unto  them,  in  places 
where  they  travell  in  their  calling,  or  at  least  next  adjacent 
thereto :  And  that  the  Benefices  now  vacant,  or  hath  been 
vacant  since  the  month  of  March  1558,  or  that  hereafter  shall 
happen  to  be  vacant,  be  disponed  to  qualified  and  learned  per- 
sons, able  to  preach  God's  Word,  and  discharge  the  vocation 
concerning  the  Ministry,  by  tryall  and  admission  of  the  Su- 
jDerintendents  and  Overseers  :  And  that  no  Benefice  or  Living, 
having  many  Churches  annexed  thereunto,  be  disponed  alto- 
gether in  any  time  to  come,  to  any  [one]  man,  but  at  the  least 
the  Churches  thereof  be  severally  disponed,  and  that  to  severall 
persons ;  so  that  every  man  having  charge  may  serve  at  his 
own  church  according  to  his  vocation :  And  to  that  efiect, 
likewise  the  Gleebs  and  the  Manses  be  given  to  the  Ministers, 
that  they  may  make  residency  at  their  Churches,  whereby 
they  may  discharge  their  consciences  according  to  their  voca- 
tion ;  and  also,  that  the  Kirks  may  be  repaired  accordingly ; 
and  that  a  law  be  made  and  established  hereupon  by  Act  of 
Parliament,  as  said  is. 

Thirdly,  That  none  be  permitted  to  have  charge  of  Souls, 
[Schools,]  Colledges,  or  Universities,  neither  privately  or  pub- 
lickly  to  teach  and  instruct  the  youth,  but  such  as  shall  be 
tried   by  the   Superintendents   or  Visitors   of  churches,  and 


486  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

found  sound  and  able  in  doctrine,  and  admitted  by  them  to 
their  charges. 

Fourthly,  For  the  Sustentation  of  the  Poor,  That  all  lands 
founded  for  hospitality  of  old  be  restored  again  to  the  same 
use ;  and  that  all  lands,  annual-rents,  or  any  other  emolu- 
ments, pertaining  any  ways  sometimes  to  the  Friers,  of  what- 
soever Order  they  had  been  of;  as  likewise  the  annuities, 
alterages,  obits,  and  other  duties  pertaining  to  Priests,  to  be 
applied  to  the  sustentation  of  the  poor,  and  uphold  of  the 
town-schools  in  towns,  and  other  places  where  they  lie. 

Fifthly,  That  such  horrible  crimes  as  now  abound  within 
this  Realme,  without  any  correction,  to  the  great  contempt  of 
God  and  his  Word  ;  such  as  Idolatry,  blasphemie  of  God's 
name,  manifest  breaking  of  the  Sabbath-day,  witchcraft,  sor- 
cery, inchantment,  adultery,  manifest  whoredome,  mainte- 
nance of  bordals,  murther,  slaughter,  oppression,  with  many 
other  detestable  crimes,  may  be  severely  punished ;  and  Judges 
appointed  in  every  province  and  diocesse,  for  execution  there- 
of, with  power  to  do  the  same,  and  that  by  Act  of  Parlia- 
ment. 

Lastly,  That  some  order  be  devised  and  established  for  ease 
of  the  poor  labourers  of  the  ground,  concerning  the  [unjreason- 
able  payment  of  the  tythes,  who  are  opi^ressed  by  the  leasers 
of  the  tythes  set  over  their  heads,  without  their  own  consent 
and  advice. 

The  persons  who  were  ajDpointed  by  the  Church  to  carry 
these  Articles,  and  present  them  to  the  Queen's  Majestie,  were 
the  Lairds  of  Cunninghamhead,  Lundie,  Spot,  and  Grange  of 
Angus,  and  James  Baron  for  the  Broughs  ■^     These  five  past 

^  These  five  Commissioners  were,  ^^';ll-  in  Forfarshire ;  George  Hume  of  Spot, 

ter  Lundie  of  Lundie,  in  Fife ;  William  in   Berwickshire,    and   James   Barron, 

Cunningham   of    Cunninghamhead,    in  merchant-burgess  of  Edinburgh. 
Ayrshire  ;  William  Durham  of  Grange, 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  487 

from  Edinburgh  to  Saint  Johnston,  where  they  presented  the 
said  Articles  to  the  Queen's  Majestie,  desiring  and  requiring 
her  Highnesse  most  hvmihly  to  advise  therewith,  and  to  give 
them  answer.  The  next  day,  ere  they  were  aware,  the  Queen 
departed  to  Dunkekl,  and  immediately  they  followed  ;  and 
after  they  had  gotten  audience,  they  desired  the  Queen's  Ma- 
jestie most  humbly  to  give  their  dispatch.  She  answered. 
That  her  Councell  was  not  there  present,  but  she  intended  to 
be  in  Edinburgh  within  eight  dayes,  and  there  they  should 
receive  their  answer. 

At  the  same  time,  as  the  Grenerall  Assembly  was  holden 
in  Edinburgh,  the  Brethren  perceiving  the  Papists  to  brag, 
and  trouble  like  to  be,  they  assembled  themselves  at  Saint 
Leonard's  Craig, -^  where  they  concluded  they  would  defend 
themselves ;  and  for  the  same  purpose,  elected  eight  persons 
of  the  most  able,  two  of  every  quarter,  to  see  that  the  Bre- 
tliren  should  be  ready  armed. 

And  when  the  five  Commissioners  above  named  had  waited 
upon  the  Court  four  or  five  days  after  her  Majesties  coming  to 
Edinburgh,  there  the  matter  was  proposed  in  Councell :  And 
after  long  and  earnest  reasoning  upon  these  Articles,  at  length 
it  was  answered  to  the  Commissioners  by  the  Secretary,  That 
the  Queen's  Majesties  command  was.  That  the  matter  should 
be  reasoned  in  her  presence  ;  which  for  the  gravitie  of  the 
same,  there  could  nothing  be  concluded  at  that  time,  albeit 
the  Queen's  Majestie  had  heard  more  in  that  matter  then  ever 
she  did  before  :  But  within  eight  days  thereafter,  she  under- 
stood that  a  great  part  of  the  Nobilitie  should  be  present  in 
Edinburgh,  where  they  should  have  a  final  answer. 

At  length,  the  one  and  twentieth  of  August,  they  received 
the  answer  in  Avriting  in  her  presence,  according  to  the  tenour 
hereof,  as  foUoweth : — 

'  The  district  of  St.  Leonard's  is  now  It  is  on  the  south  side  of  the  city,  ininie- 
included  in  the  subm-bs  of  Edinburgh.       diately  in  front  of  Salisbury  Crags. 


488  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

The  Queen's  Majesties  Answer  to  the  Articles  presented 
TO  Her  Highnesse,  by  certain  Gentlemen,  in  the  Name 
OF  the  whole  Assemblie  of  the  Church. 

To  the  first,  Desiring  tlie  Masse  to  be  suppressed  and  abo- 
lished, as  well  in  the  head  as  in  the  members,  with  punish- 
ment against  the  contraveners ;  as  also,  the  Religion  profess- 
ed to  be  Established  by  Act  of  Parliament :  It  was  answered 
first,  for  her  Majesties  part.  That  her  Highness  is  no  way  yet 
perswaded  in  the  said  Religion,  nor  yet  that  any  impiety  is  in 
the  Masse ;  and  therefore  believeth,  that  her  loving  subjects 
will  not  press  her  to  receive  any  Religion  against  her  con- 
science, which  should  be  unto  her  a  continuall  trouble  by  re- 
morse of  conscience,  and  therewith  a  perpetuall  unquietness. 
And  to  deal  plainly  with  her  subjects,  her  Majesty  neither 
will  nor  may  leave  the  Religion  wherein  she  hath  been  nourish- 
ed and  brought  up,  and  believeth  the  same  to  be  well-ground- 
ed ;  knowing,  besides  the  grudge  of  conscience  that  she  should 
receive,  upon  the  change  of  her  own  Religion,  that  she  should 
lose  the  friendship  of  the  King  of  France,  the  married  AUia 
of  this  Realm e,  and  of  other  great  Princes  her  friends  and 
confederates,  who  would  take  the  same  in  evil  part,  and  of 
whom  she  may  look  for  their  great  suj)port  in  all  her  necessi- 
ties. And  having  no  assured  consideration  that  may  counter- 
vail the  same,  she  will  be  loth  to  put  in  hazard  all  her  friends 
at  an  instant;  praying  all  her  loving  subjects,  seeing  they  have 
had  experience  of  her  goodness,  that  she  hath  neither  in  times 
past,  not  yet  intends  hereafter,  to  jDress  the  conscience  of  any 
[man,]  but  that  they  may  worship  God  in  such  sort,  as  they 
are  preswaded  in  their  conscience  to  be  best,  that  they  will 
also  not  presse  her  conscience. 

As  to  the  establishing  of  Religion  in  the  body  of  the 
Realme,  they  themselves  know,  as  appears  by  their  Articles, 
that  the  same  cannot  be  done  only  by  consent  of  her  Majestic, 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  489 

but  requires  necessarily  tlie  consent  of  the  [tliree]  States  in 
Parliament ;  and  therefore  so  soon  as  the  Parliament  holds, 
those  things  which  the  [three]  States  agree  upon  amongst 
themselves,  her  Majestie  shall  consent  unto  the  same  ;  and  in 
the  mean  time  shall  make  sure,  that  no  man  be  troubled  for 
using  [themselves  in]  religion  according  to  conscience  ;  so  that 
no  man  shall  have  cause  to  doubt,  that  for  religion's  sake  men's 
lives  and  heritage  shall  be  in  any  hazard. 

To  the  second  Article,  it  is  answered,  That  her  Majestie 
thinks  it  no  wayes  reasonable,  that  she  should  defraud  her  self 
of  so  great  a  part  of  the  patrimony  of  the  Crowne,  as  to  put 
the  Patronage  of  Benefices  forth  of  her  own  hands ;  for  her 
owne  necessity  in  bearing  of  her  port  and  common  charges 
will  require  the  retention  thereof,  and  that  in  a  good  part,  in 
her  owne  hands  :  Neverthelesse  her  Majestie  is  well  pleased, 
that  consideration  being  had  of  her  owne  necessity,  and  what 
may  be  sufficient  for  [her,  and  for]  the  reasonable  sustentation 
of  the  Ministers,  a  speciall  assignation  be  made  to  them  in 
places  most  commodious  and  meet :  with  which  her  Majesty 
shall  not  meddle,  but  suffer  the  same  to  come  to  them. 

To  the  third  Article,  it  is  answered,  That  her  Majestie 
shall  do  therein  as  shall  be  agreed  by  the  States  in  Parlia- 
ment. 

To  the  fourth  Article,  Her  Majesties  liberality  towards  the 
poore  shall  alwayes  be  so  far  extended,  as  can  be  reasonably 
required  at  her  hands. 

To  the  fifth  and  sixth  Articles,  Her  Majesty  will  refer  the 
taking  order  therein  unto  the  States  assembled  in  Parliament.^ 

1  The  Queen's  Answers  to  the  Articles  in  the  Book  of  the  Universall  Kirk, 
were  presented  by  the  Commissioners  vol.  i.  p.  69 ;  and  also  the  Supplication, 
at  the  next  meeting  of  the  General  which  the  Assembly  on  the  26th  De- 
Assembly,  on  the  25th  December  1565.  cember  prepared  "  to  be  presented  to 
They  were  declared  to  be  imsatisfactory  the  Queen  and  Counsel],  by  the  Lord 
to  the  Ivii-k,  and  Mr.  John  Row  was  di-  Lindesay,  and  David  Murray,  brother 
rected  "  to  put  in  wryte,  Answers  to  the  to  the  Laird  of  Balvaird."  (Book  of 
Answers."   These  Answers  are  inserted  the  Univ.  Kii-k,  vol.  i.  p.  71.) 


490  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

As  the  Queen's  Majestie  came  from  Saint  Johnston,  over 
Forth  to  the  Callender,  she  was  conveyed  to  the  water  side  of 
Forth  with  two  hundred  spears:  For  at  that  time  it  was 
hruted,  that  there  was  some  lying  in  wait  at  the  Path  of  Dron.^ 
In  the  mean  time  the  Earle  of  Mui-ray  was  in  Lochlevin,  and 
the  Earle  of  Argyle  with  him.  Now  in  the  Callender^  the 
Lord  Levingston  had  desired  the  Queen's  Majestie  to  be  wit- 
nesse  to  the  christning  of  a  child  ;  for  his  Lady  was  lately  de- 
livered and  brought  to  bed :  And  when  the  Minister  made  the 
sermon  and  exhortation  concerning  baptisme,  the  Queen's 
Majestie  came  in  the  end,  and  said  to  the  Lord  Levingston, 
"  That  she  would  shew  him  that  favour  that  she  had  not 
done  to  any  other  before ;"  that  is,  that  she  would  give  her 
presence  to  the  Protestant  sermon,  which  was  reckoned  a 
great  matter. 

The  Queen  being  in  the  Callender,  was  informed  both  by 
word  and  letters  by  false  brethren.  That  a  great  part  of  the 
Protestants  of  Edinburgh  had  lately  convened  upon  Saint 
Leonard's  Craigs,  and  there  made  a  conspiration  against  her  ; 
and  had  chosen  for  the  same  purpose  certain  Captains  to 
governe  the  rest :  And  without  any  tryall,  or  perfect  notice 
taken  in  the  case,  she  sent  to  the  Provest  and  Bayliffs  of 
Edinburgh,  commanding  them  to  take  and  apprehend  Alex- 
ander Guthrie,  Alexander  Clerke,  Gilbert  Lawder,  and  Andrew 
Sclater,  and  put  them  in  prison  in  the  Castle.^ 

This  new  and  unaccustomed  fashion  of  proceeding  seemed  to 

1  Dron,  the  name  of  a  small  parish  in  putis  in  the  Tolbuith  of  Edinburgh,  on 

Perthshire,  at  the  foot  of  the  Ochil  hills.  the  26th  July,"  &c.     (Treasurer's  Ac- 

*  Callender,  near  Falkirk,  the  seat  of  counts.)   The  office  of  Town-Clerk  being 

William  fifth  Lord  Livingstone  of  Cal-  held  by  Guthrie,  was  disposed  of  at  this 

lender,  in  the  shire  of  Stirling.  time   to   David   Chalmers  of  Onnond, 

3  On  the    10th  July    1565,    a  mes-  who,  in  January  preceding,  had   been 

senger  was  sent  "  within  Edinburgh,  to  ajipointed  one  of  the  Lords  of  Session. 

Summond  Alexander  Guthrie,  Alexan-  He  was  an  adherent  of  Bothwell,  and 

der  Clerk,  Gilbert  Lauder,  and  Andro  was  openly  accused  as  having  been  ac- 

Sklater,  burgesses  of  the  said  burgh,  to  cessary  to  the  murder  of  Darnley,  but 

compeir  before  the  Justice  and  Ids  dc-  was  never  brought  to  trial. 


15G5.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  491 

be  very  strange :  And  because  the  said  four  persons  were  not 
appreliended,  she  sent  the  next  day  a  charge  to  tlie  Provest 
and  BaylifFs,  and  to  her  owne  great  Treasurer,  to  passe  to  the 
houses  of  the  said  foure  men,  and  likewise  to  their  booths  or 
shops,  and  there  to  take  inventory  of  all  their  goods  and 
chattells ;  and  commanded  the  said  Treasurer  to  take  the 
keyes  of  the  said  houses  and  booths,  together  with  the  said 
inventory ;  which  was  executed  in  eft'ect,  especially  upon  the 
said  Alexander  Guthrie  his  wife,  he  being  then  common  Gierke, 
and  one  of  the  greatest  in  estimation  within  the  towne :  his 
wife  and  children  were  shut  out  of  their  house,  and  compelled 
to  seek  some  other  lodging  in  the  town. 

By  this  manner  of  proceeding,  the  hearts  of  all  men  of  spirit 
and  judgement  were  wonderfully  abashed  and  wounded,  seeing 
and  perceiving  these  things  so  furiously  handled  upon  sinister 
and  wrong  information,  men  never  called  to  their  answer,  nor 
lieai'd,  nor  any  triall  taken  therein.  Immediately  thereafter, 
as  she  came  to  Edinburgh,  she  called  to  counsell  such  as 
pleased  her  Majestie,  and  there  complains  of  the  said  matter, 
alleadging  it  to  be  a  conspiracy  and  manifest  treason.  And 
another  matter  likewise  was  complained  upon,  that  the  Earle 
of  Argile  (as  the  Queen  was  surely  informed,)  was  riding  with 
a  great  army  to  invade  the  Earle  of  Athole  and  his  lands. 
For  the  first  matter  it  was  concluded  by  the  Councell,  that 
diligent  inquisition  should  be  made  in  the  matter,  and  to  that 
purpose  appointed  the  Queen's  Advocates,  Master  John  Spence  of 
Condie,^  and  Master  Robert  Crichton,  to  examine  such  as  they 
would  ;  and  when  the  said  Advocates  had  called  before  them, 
and  examined  a  sufficient  number,  and  their  depositions  sub- 
scribed and  delivered  to  the  Queen,  there  was  nothing  found 

'  Spens  of  Condie  (see  page  401,)  bad  place  of  Lauder.    Crichton  died  in  June 

been   appointed   joint    Advocate    witb  1581.     He  was   the  father  of  James, 

Henry  Lauder,  21st  October  ISoo.     On  "  the  Admirable  Crichton."   SceTjtler's 

the  8th  February  1560,  Robert  Crichton  Life  of  Crichton,  and  Senators  of  the 

(if  EUinck  was  conjoined  with  Spens  in  College  of  Justice,  p.  176. 


492  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

worthy  of  death  nor  treason  :  At  length  the  said  four  persons 
were  summoned  to  answer  at  hiw. 

For  the  [other]  matter,  That  the  Queen's  Majestie  should 
send  to  the  Earles  of  Argyle  and  Athole  some  of  her  Councell 
or  familiar  servants  to  take  order  touching  it.l  And  when  the 
Secretary,  the  Justice  Clarke,  and  Lord  of  Saint  Colme^  had 
past  to  the  said  Earl  of  Argyle,  they  found  no  such  thing ;  but 
in  Athole  there  was  great  fear  come  of  a  sudden  fray ;  for 
after  many  jDroclamations,  the  Firc-crosse  (which  they  made 
use  of  in  lieu  of  beacons)  was  raised  in  Athole. 

Now  as  the  day  of  Parliament  approached,  the  Lords  pre- 
tending to  consult  before  what  should  be  done,  as  well  in 
Religion,  as  for  the  Commonwealth,  the  fifteenth  day  of  July 
there  convened  at  Sterlin  the  Duke,  the  Earles  of  Argyle,  and 
Murray,  Rothes,  and  other  Lords  and  Barons ;  and  as  they 
were  devising  and  consulting,  the  Queen's  Majesty  taking  their 
meeting  in  evill  part,  sent  her  Advocates,  Master  John  Spence 
and  Master  [Robert]  Crichton,  to  them  at  Sterlin,  requiring  the 
cause  of  their  meeting.  They  answered,  That  the  speciall 
occasion  of  their  meeting  was  for  the  cause  of  Religion  and 
the  assurance  thereof,  according  as  they  had  lately  written  to 
the  Queen's  Majesty  in  Seaton  from  the  town  of  Edinburgh, 
they  desiring  then  to  prorogate  the  day. 

Finally,  when  the  said  Advocates  could  by  no  means  per- 
swade  them  to  come  to  Edinburgh,  they  returned  again  to 
Edinburgh,  and  declared  to  the  Queen's  Majestie  according  as 
they  had  found. 

In  the  mean  time  the  Parliament  was  prorogated  at  the 
Queen's   Majesties  command  to  the  first  of  September  next 

'  On  the  6th  July  1565,  £8,  10s.  was  vocation  of  our  Souerane  Ladeis  liegis  ; 

paid  "  to  Johne   Pat€rson,    Snawdon  being  in  cumpany  with  AVilliam  Mait- 

herald,   and    John    Brand,  messinger,  land,  Secretar,  and  Sir  Johne  Bellenden, 

passand  of  Edinburgh  with  letters  of  thaii-  Hienes  Justice  Clerk." 

the  Queuis  Grace,  to  charge  Arcliibald  -   James   Stewart,   Commendator  of 

Erie  of   Argile    and    Johne  Earle  of  St.  Colme  :  see  page  88,  note  7. 
Athole,  to  desist  and  ceiss  fra  ony  con- 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  493 

after  following ;  for  it  was  thought,  that  the  least  part  and 
principall  of  the  chief  Nobility  being  absent,  there  could  no 
Parliament  be  holden :  at  the  same  time  the  Queen's  Majestic 
perceiving  that  the  matter  was  already  come  to  a  maturity 
and  ripenesse,  so  that  the  minds  and  secrecy  of  men's  hearts 
must  needs  be  disclosed,  she  wrote  to  a  great  number  of  Lords, 
Barons,  Gentlemen,  and  others  that  were  nearest  in  Fife, 
Angus,  Lowthian,  Mors,  Tevidale,  Perth,  Lithgow,  Clidsdall, 
and  others  to  resort  to  her,  in  this  form  of  words  hereafter  fol- 
lowing : — 

The  Queen's  Letter. 
"  Trusty  friend.  We  greet  you  well :  "We  are  grieved  indeed 
by  the  evill  bruite  spread  amongst  our  lieges,  as  that  we  should 
have  molested  any  man  in  the  using  of  his  Religion  and 
conscience  freely,  a  thing  which  never  entred  into  our  minde ; 
yet  since  we  perceive  the  too  easie  beleeving  such  reports  hath 
made  them  carelesse,  and  so  we  think  it  becomes  us  to  be 
carefull  for  the  safety  and  preservation  of  our  State  ;  wherefore 
we  pray  you  most  aifectionately,  that  with  all  possible  haste, 
(after  the  receipt  of  this  our  Letter,)  you  with  your  kindred, 
friends,  and  whole  force,  well  furnished  with  armes  for  warre, 
be  provided  for,  fifteen  dayes  after  your  coming,  addresse  you 
to  come  to  us,  to  waite  and  attend  upon  us,  according  to  our 
expectation  and  trust  in  you,  as  you  will  thereby  declare  the 
good  aifection  you  bear  to  the  maintenance  of  our  authoritie, 
and  will  do  us  therein  acceptable  service. 

Subscribed  with  Our  hand  at  Edinburgh,  the  seven- 
teenth day  of  July,  1565." 

There  was  likewise  Proclamation  made  in  Edinburgh,  That 
the  Queen  minded  not  to  trouble  nor  alter  the  Religion  ; 
and  also  Proclamations  made  in  the  Shires  above  mentioned, 
for  the  same  purpose,  That  all  freeholders  and  other  gentle- 


494  THE  HISTORY  OP  Book  V. 

men  should  resort,  (in  the  aforesaid  manner,)  to  Edinburgh, 
where  the  Earl  of  Rosse  was  made  Duke  of  Rothesay,  with 
great  triumph,  the  23d  day  of  July.  The  same  afternoon  the 
Queen  complained  grievously  upon  the  Earl  of  Murray,  in 
open  audience  of  all  the  Lords  and  Barons  ;  and  the  same  day 
the  bans  of  the  Earl  of  Rosse  and  Duke  of  Rothesay  and 
the  Queen's  marriage  were  proclaimed.  About  this  time  the 
Lord  Arskin  was  made  Earl  of  Marre.  In  the  mean  time 
there  were  divers  messages  sent  from  the  Queen's  Majestie  to 
the  Lord  of  Murray,  first,  Master  Robert  Crichton,  to  per- 
swade  him  by  all  means  possible  to  come  and  resort  to  the 
Queen's  Majestie :  His  answer  was,  That  he  would  be  glad  to 
come  to  her  self,  according  to  his  bounden  duty ;  yet  for  as 
much  as  such  persons  as  were  most  privie  in  her  company 
were  his  capitall  enemies,  who  also  had  conspired  his  death, 
he  could  no  wayes  come  so  long  as  they  were  in  Court. 

Soon  after  my  Lord  Erskin,  and  the  Master  Maxwell,  past 
to  him  to  St.  Andrews,  rather  suffered  and  permitted  by  the 
Queen,  then  sent  by  her  Highness ;  after  them  the  Laird,  of 
Dun,  who  was  sent  by  the  means  of  the  Earl  of  Mar ;  but  all 
this  did  not  prevail  with  him  ;  and  when  all  hope  of  his  coming 
was  past,  an  herald  was  sent  to  him,  charging  him  to  come  to 
the  Queen's  Majesty,  and  answer  to  such  things  as  should  be 
laid  to  his  charge,  within  eight  and  fourty  hours  next  after  the 
charge,  under  pain  of  rebellion  ;  and  because  he  appeared  not 
the  next  day  after  the  eight  and  fourty  hours,  he  was  de- 
nounced rebell,  and  put  to  the  home.  The  same  order  they 
used  against  the  Earl  of  Argyle  ;  for  the  Queen  said  she  would 
serve  him  and  the  rest  with  the  same  measure  they  had  mete 
to  others,  meaning  the  said  Argyle. 

In  the  mean  while,  as  the  fire  was  well  kindled  and  en- 
flamed,  all  means  and  ways  were  sought  to  stir  up  enemies 
against  the  chief  Protestants  that  had  been  lately  at  Sterlin  ; 
for  the  Earl  of  Athole  was  ready  bent  against  the  Earl  of 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  495 

Argyle :  the  Lord  Lindesay  against  the  Earl  Rothesse  in  Fyfe, 
they  both  being  Protestants  ;  for  they  had  contended  now  a 
long  time  for  the  heir-ship  of  Fyfe  :  And  that  no  such  thing 
should  be  left  undone,  the  Lord  Gordon,i  -yyijo  now  had  re- 
mained neer  three  yeers  in  prison  in  Dumbar,  was,  after  some 
little  travell  of  his  friends,  received  by  the  Queen ;  and  being 
thus  received  into  favour,  was  restored  first  to  the  Lordship  of 
Gordon,  and  soon  after  to  the  Erldom  of  Huntley,  and  to  all 
his  lands,  honours,  and  dignities,  that  he  might  be  a  bar  and 
a  party  in  the  North  to  the  Earl  of  Murray. 

The  28.  of  July,^  late  in  the  evening,  neer  an  hour  after  the  The  Dis- 
sun's   going   down,   there   was   a  Proclamation  made  at  the  being  come 
Market-Cross  of  Edinburgh,  containing  in  effect :  fo?"fhe  °°'*' 

"  That  forasmuch  as  at  the  will  and  pleasure  of  Almighty  Marriage : 

Before 

God,  the  Queen  had  taken  to  her  husband  a  right  excellent  which,  ac- 
and  illustrious  Prince,  Harry  Duke  of  Rothesay,  Earl  of  Rosse,  the  Romish 
Lord  Darnley,   Therefore  it  was  her  will,  that  he  should  be  ^'\^'^^T^^ 

•^ '  '  unlawful  to 

holden  and  obeyed,  and  reverenced  as  King :    Commanding  all  marry,  be- 
letters  and  proclamations  to  be  made  in  the  names  of  Henry  Germans, 
and  Mary  in  times  coming.^^  ^  and  sSter's 

The  next  day  following,  at  six  hours  in  the  morning,  they  children, 

/  ®'  *'  "^  and  so  the 

were  married"^  in  the  Chappell  Royall  of  Halyrud-House,  by  degree  of 

the  Dean  of  Restalrig  ;  the  Queen  being  all  clothed  in  mourn-  g^ityfor- 

ing :     But  immediately,  as  the  Queen  went  to  Masse,  the  King  t>idden. 

went  not  with  her,  but  to  his  pastime.     During  the  space  of 

three  or  four  days,  there  was  nothing  but  balling,  and  dancing, 

and  banquetting. 

^  George  Lord  Gordon  fifth  Earl  of  "  the  said   Henrie   King,    and    Marie 

Huntley :   see  page   360,  note  1.     His  Quene   of  Scottis,   wes   marijt  in   the 

restoration  to  his  foi-feited  titles   was  Chapell  of  Halyrudhous,  at  sex  houris 

proclaimed  at  the  Cross  of  Edinbui-gh,  in  the  mornyng,  be  Mr.  Johne  Sinclare, 

on  the  25th  August  1565.     (Diurnal  of  Deane  of  Restalrig,  with  greit  magnifi- 

Occurrents,  p.  810.)  cence,  accompanyit  with  the  haillNobi- 

2  In  both  edit.  1644,  «  The  18,"  an  litie  of  this  Realme."     (Diurnal  of  Oc- 

error  for  the  28th  of  July.  currents,  p.  80.) 

«  On   Sunday,  the   29th   July  1565, 


Note  this 
for  our 
time. 


496  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

In  tlie  mean  time,  the  Earl  Rotliesse,  the  Laird  of  Grrange, 
the  Tutor  of  Pitcur,  with  some  gentlemen  of  Fjfe,  were  put  to 
the  home,  for  non-appearance ;  and  immediately  the  swash, 
tabron,  and  drums  were  stricken  or  beaten,  for  men  of  war  to 
serve  the  King  and  Queen's  Majestie,  and  to  take  their  pay. 
This  sudden  alteration  and  hasty  creation  of  Kings,  moved  the 
hearts  of  a  great  number. 

Now,  amongst  the  people  there  were  divers  bruits ;  for  some 
alleadged,  That  the  cause  of  this  alteration  was  not  for  Reli- 
gion, but  rather  for  hatred,  envie  of  sudden  promotion  or  dig- 
nity, or  such  worldly  causes :  But  they  that  considered  the 
progress  of  the  matter,  according  as  is  heretofore  declared, 
thought  the  principall  cause  to  be  only  for  Religion. 

In  this  mean  time,  the  Lords  past  to  Argyle,  taking,  appa- 
rently, little  care  of  the  trouble  that  was  to  come  :  Howbeit 
they  sent  into  England  Master  Nicolas  Elphinston  for  support, 
who  brought  some  moneys  in  this  countrey,  to  the  sum  of 
ten  thousand  pounds  sterlin.  There  came  one  forth  of  Eng- 
land to  the  Queen,  who  got  presence  the  seventh  of  August  in 
Halyrud-House.     He  was  not  well,  &c.^ 

About  the  fifteenth  of  August,  the  Lords  met  at  Aire,  to 
wit,  the  Duke  of  Hamilton,  the  Earls  Argyle,  Murray,  Glen- 
carne,  Rothesse,  the  Lord  Boyd  and  Ochiltrie,  with  divers 
Barons  and  Gentlemen  of  Fyfe  and  Kyle,  where  they  conclud- 
ed to  be  in  readiness  with  their  whole  forces  the  four  and 
twentieth  day  of  August.  But  the  King  and  Queen  with  great 
celerity  prevented  them  ;  for  their  Majesties  sent  thorow  Low- 
thian,  Fife,  Angus,  Strathern,  Tividaile,  and  Cliddisdaile,  and 
other  shires,  making  their  Proclamations  in  this  manner, 
"  That  forasmuch  as  certain  Rebels,  who,  (under  colour  of  Re- 

1  In  both  edit.  1644,  the  paragraph  Tamworth  ;    but   not  being   duly  ac- 

ends  in  tliis  abrupt  manner.     The  addi-  credited,  in  order  to  avoid  acknowledg- 

tion  of  the  word  "received"  might  sup-  ing  Darnley  as  King,  he  consequently 

ply  the  "  &c.,"  as  it  refers  to  a  message  "  was  not  well  received."    See  Keith's 

from  England,  which  was  sent  by  John  History,  vol.  ii.  p.  354. 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  497 

ligion,)  intended  notliing  but  the  trouble  and  subversion  of  the 
Commonwealth,  were  to  convene  with  such  as  they  might  per- 
swade  to  assist  them  ;  therefore  they  charged  all  manner  of 
men,  under  pain  of  life,  lands,  and  goods,  to  resort  and  meet 
their  Majesties  at  Linlithgow,  the  24.  day  of  August." 

This  Proclamation  was  made  in  Lowthian  the  third  day  of 
the  said  month.     Upon  Sunday,  the  nineteenth  of  August,^ 
the  King  came  to  the  High  Kirk  of  Edinburgh,  where  John 
Knox  made  the  Sermon :   his  text  was  taken  out  of  the   six 
and  twentieth   chapter   of  Esayas   his  Prophesie,    about   the 
thirteenth  verse,  where,  in  the  words  of  the  Prophet,  he  said, 
"  0  Lord  our  God,  other  lords  then  thou  have  ruled  over  us." 
Whereupon  he  took  occasion  to  speak  of  the  government  of  The  King, 
wicked  Princes,  who,  for  the  sins  of  the  people,   are  sent  as  himself 
tyrants  and  scourges  to  plague  them :     And  amongst   other  J^rJ^aff^o 
things,  he  said,  "  That  God  sets  in  that  room,  (for  the  offences  take  from 

.  .  ,         A      1  ^^^^  Lords 

and  ingratitude  of  the  people,)  boys  and  women."  And  some  of  the  Con- 
other  Avords  which  appeared  bitter  in  the  King's  ears,  as,  "  That  fhe^pvetext 
God  justly  punished  Ahab  and  his  posterity,  because  he  would  Jg^^'j^'^JJ; 
not  take  order  with  that  harlot  Jezabel."     And  because  he  had  the  Kirk  to 

•    1  1  T  1  1  1  •  •         1    ^^^^  John 

tarried  an  hour  and  more  longer  than  the  time  appointed,  Knox 
the  King,   (sitting  in  a  throne  made  for  that  purpose,)  was  ^^^^^  ' 
so   moved    at  this   Sermon,   that   he   would   not   dine ;   and 
being  troubled,  with  great  fury  he  past  in  the  afternoon  to 
the  hawking. 

Immediately  John  Knox  was  commanded  to  come  to  the 
Councell,  where,  in  the  Secretaries  chamber,  were  convened 
the  Earl  of  Athole,  the  Lord  Ruthven,  the  Secretary,  the 
Justice  Clark,  with  the  Advocate.     There  passed  along  with 

1  "  Upoun  the  xix  day  of  August,  the  The  Sermon  was  afterwards  published 

King  cam  to   Sanctgelis   Kii'k  to  the  by  Knox,  in  order,  as  he  says,  "  to  let 

preitcliing,  and  Johne  Knox  preachit ;  such  as  Satan  hes  not  altogether  blind- 

quhairat  he  was   crabbit,   and   causit  ed,  see  upon  how  small  occasions  great 

discharge  the  said  Johne  of  his  preitch-  offence  is  now  conceived." 
ing."     (Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  p.  81.) 

VOL,  II.  2  I 


498  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

tlie  Minister  a  gi-eat  number  of  the  most  apparent  men  of  tlie 
Towne.  When  he  was  called,  the  Secretary  declared,  "  That  the 
King's  Majestic  was  oiFended  with  some  words  spoken  in  the 
Sermon,  (especially  such  as  are  above  rehearsed,)  desiring  him 
to  abstain  from  preaching  for  fifteen  or  twenty  days,  and  let 
Master  Craig  supply  the  place." 
in"' hTIaid  ^^  answered,  "  That  he  had  spoken  nothing  but  according 
more  than  ^q  his  text ;  and  if  the  Church  would  command  him  either  to 

be  had 

preached,    speak  or  abstain,  he  would  obey,  so  far  as  the  Word  of  God 

added,        would  permit  him." 

Sglm?''      Within  four  days  after,  the  King  and  Queen  sent  to  the 

(to  plea-     Councell  of  Edinburgh,  commanding  them  to  depose  Archibald 

Queen)       Douglas,^  ■  and  to  receive  the  Laird  [of]  Craigmiller  for  their 

Mas^se,°and  P^ovest,  which  was  presently  obeyed. 

dishonour-       rpj^g  fi^^  ^nd  twentieth  of  August,  the   King  and  Queen's 

ed  the  Lord         _       _  _  .      . 

God,  so       Majesties  j^ast  from  Edinburgh  to  Linlithgow,  and  from  thence 

in  his  jus-  to  Stcrlin,  and  from  Sterlin  to  Glasgow.     At  their  [first]  arri- 

her  ^n^L-  ^^^^'  *^®^^  whole  people  were  not  come.     The  next  day  after 

strument  of  their  arri vail  to  Glasgow,  the  Lords  came  to  Paisley,  where  they 

his  ruin ;  •       i      ,  ... 

and  so  it  remained  that  night,  being  in  company  about  one  thousand 
very^short  lioi'ses.  On  the  morrow  they  came  to  Hamilton,  keeping  the 
the  Ou^"*  high  passage  from  Paisley  hard  by  Glasgow,  where  the  King 
being         and  Queen  easily  might  behold  them.     The  night  following-, 

illC6DSGd, 

■vTith  these  whicli  was  the  penult  of  August,  they  remained  in  Hamil- 
mit^i^'  ^^^^  *^^  ^^*^^  their  company ;  but  for  divers  respects  moving 
tears,  and  them,  they  thought  it  not  expedient  to  tarry ;  especially, 
her,  John  bocause  the  Earl  of  Argyle  was  not  come :  for  his  diet  was 
ab^tain^'^^*  not  afore  the  second  of  September  following,  to  have  been  at 
^'■^^ , .       Hamilton. 

preachuig 

for  a  time.       Finally,  They  took  purpose  to  come  to  Edinburgh,  the  which 

^  On  the  23d  August  1565,  the  Queen  and  in  his  place  that  you  elect,  ressave, 

commanded  the  "  BailUes  and  Covmsell  and  admit  oiu*  lovit  Symon  Preston  of 

of  Edinburgh  to  depois  and   displace  that  Ilk,  as  Provest  thairof."     See  the 

(Archibald  Douglas  of  Kilspindie)  the  Queen's   Letter  in  Maitland's  Hist,  of 

present  Provest   of  oure  said   Burgl;.  Kdinli.,  p.  26. 


15G5.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  499 

they  did  the  next  day.'^  And  albeit  Alexander  Areskiii,2  Cap- 
tain under  the  Lord  his  brother,  caused  to  shoot  forth  of  the 
Castle  two  shot  of  cannon,  thej  being-  near  the  town  ;  and  like- 
wise that  the  Laird  [of]  Craig-miller,  Provest,  did  his  endeavour 
to  hold  the  Lords  forth  of  the  town,  in  causing  the  common  bells 
to  be  rung,  for  the  convening  of  the  town  to  the  effect  afore- 
said ;  yet  they  entred  easily  at  the  West-Port  or  Gate,  without 
any  molestation  or  impediment,  being  in  number,  as  they  es- 
teemed themselves,  one  thousand  three  hundred  horses.  Im- 
mediately they  dispatched  messengers  southward  and  north- 
ward to  assist  them  ;  but  all  in  vain  :  And  immediately  after 
they  were  in  their  lodgings,  they  caused  to  strike  or  beat  the 
drum,  desiring  all  such  men  as  would  receive  wages  for  the 
defence  of  the  glory  of  Grod,  that  they  should  resort  the  day 
following  to  the  Church,  where  they  should  receive  good  pay  : 
But  they  profited  little  that  way  ;  neither  could  they  in  Edin- 
burgh get  any  comfort  or  support,  for  none  or  few  resorted 
unto  them  ;  yet  they  got  more  rest  and  sleep  Avhen  they  were 
at  Edinburgh  then  they  had  done  in  five  or  six  nights  before. 

The  Noblemen  of  this  company  were,  the  Duke,  the  Earls 
Murray-,  Grlencarne,  and  Rothesse  ;  the  Lords  Boyd  and  Uchil- 
trie ;  the  Lairds  of  Grange,  Cunninghamhead,  Balcomie,  and 
Lawers  ;  the  Tutor  of  Pitcur ;  the  Lairds  of  Barr,  Carnell,^  and 
Dreghorn  ;  and  the  Laird  of  Pittarow,  Comptroller,  went  with 
them.  Some  said  merrily.  That  they  were  come  to  keep  the 
Parliament ;  for  the  Parliament  was  continued  till  the  first  day 
of  September  :  Upon  the  which  day  they  wTote  to  the  King 
and  Queen's  Majesties  a  letter,  containing  in  effect,  That  al- 
beit they  were  persecuted  most  unjustly,  which  they  under- 
stood proceeded  not  of  the  King  and  Queen's  Majesties  own 
nature,  but  only  by  evil  counsell,  yet   notwithstanding  they 

1  The  31st  of  August.  brother  of  John  Lord  Ei-skin,  and  was 

"^  In  the  Edinburgh  edit.  1644,   the  afterwards    knighted.      His   grandson 

name  is  changed  to  "  ^Erskin."    Alex-  was  created  Earl  of  Kellie  in  1619.      - 

anderErskineofGogar,  was  the  younger  ^  In  both  edit.  1644,  "  Carmell." 


500  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

were  willing  and  content  to  suifer  according  to  the  laws  of  the 
Realme,  providing  that  the  true  Religion  of  God  might  be  es- 
tablished, and  the  dependants  thereupon  be  likewise  reformed  : 
beseeching  their  Majesties  most  humbly  to  grant  these  things  ; 
but  otherwise,  if  their  enemies  would  seek  their  blood,  they 
should  understand  it  should  be  dear  bought.  They  had 
written  twice,  almost  to  the  same  effect,  to  the  King  and 
Queen's  Majesties,  after  their  passing  from  Edinburgh  ;  for  the 
Laird  of  Preston  presented  a  letter  to  the  King  and  Queen's 
Majestic,  and  was  therefore  imprisoned,  but  soon  after  released; 
nevertheless  they  got  no  answer. 

The  same  day  that  they  departed  out  of  Hamilton,  the  King 
and  Queen's  Majesties  issued  out  of  Glasgow  in  the  morning 
betimes,  and  passing  towards  Hamilton,  the  army  met  their 
Majesties  near  the  Bridge  of  Gadder.  As  they  mustered,  the 
Master  of  Maxwell  sat  down  upon  his  knees,  and  made  a  long 
oration  to  the  Queen,  declaring  what  pleasure  she  had  done  to 
them,  and  ever  laid  the  whole  burden  upon  the  Earl  Murray. 
Soon  after,  they  marched  forward  in  battell  array :  The  Earl 
of  Lenox  took  the  vanguard,  the  Earl  of  Mortoun  the  middle 
battell,  and  the  King  and  Queen  the  rear :  The  whole  num- 
ber were  about  five  thousand  men,  whereof  the  greatest  part 
were  in  the  vanguard. 

As  the  King  and  Queen's  Majesties  were  within  three  miles 
of  Hamilton,  they  Avere  advertised  that  the  Lords  were  de- 
parted in  the  morning ;  but  where  they  pretended  to  be  that 
night,  it  was  uncertain.  Always,  soon  after  their  return  to 
Glasgow,  the  King  and  Queen  were  certainly  advertised  that 
they  were  past  to  Edinburgh;  and  therefore  caused  imme- 
diately to  warn  the  whole  army  to  pass  with  them  to  Edin- 
burgh the  next  day,  who,  early  in  the  morning,  long  before  the 
sun  was  risen,  began  to  march  :  But  there  arose  such  a  vehe- 
ment tempest  of  wind  and  rain  from  the  west,  as  the  like  had 
not  been  seen  before  in  a  long  time ;  so  that  a  little  brook 


1505.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  501 

turned  incontinent  into  a  great  river ;  and  the  raging  storm 
being  in  their  face,l  with  great  difficulty  went  they  forward : 
And  albeit  the  most  part  waxed  weary,  yet  the  Queen's 
courage  encreased  man-like  so  much,  that  she  was  ever  with 
the  foremost.  There  was  divers  persons  drowned  that  day  in 
the  water  of  Carron  ;  and  amongst  others,  the  King's  master, 
a  notable  Papist,  who,  for  the  zeal  he  bare  to  the  Masse,  carried 
about  his  neck  a  round  god  of  bread,  well  closed  in  a  case, 
which  always  could  not  serve  [save]  him. 

Before  the  end  of  August,  there  came  a  post  to  the  Queen's 
Majestic,  sent  by  Alexander  Areskin,  who  declared.  That  the 
Lords  Avere  in  the  town  of  Edinburgh,  where  there  Avas  a  mul- 
titude of  innocent  persons,  and  therefore  desired  to  know  if  he 
should  shoot.  She  commanded  incontinent  that  he  should  re- 
turn again  to  the  said  Alexander,  and  command  him,  in  her 
name,  That  he  should  shoot  so  long  as  he  had  either  powder 
or  bullet,  and  not  spare  for  any  body. 

At  night,  the  King  and  Queen  came  well  wet  to  the  Callen- 
der,  where  they  remained  that  night.  And  about  eight  hours 
at  night,  the  first  of  September,  the  post  came  again  to  the 
Castle,  and  reported  the  Queen's  command  to  Alexander  Ares- 
kin, who  incontinently  caused  to  shoot  six  or  seven  shot  of 
cannon,  whereof  the  marks  appeared,  having  respect  to  no 
reason,  but  only  to  the  Queen's  command. 

The  Lords  perceiving  that  they  could  get  no  support  in 
Edinburgh,  nor  souldiers  for  money,  albeit  they  had  travelled 
all  that  they  could  ;  and  being  advertised  of  the  Queen's  re- 
turning with  her  whole  company,  they  took  purpose  to  depart. 
And  so  the  next  day  betimes,  long  before  day,  they  departed 
with  their  whole  company,   and  came  to  Lanrik,2  and  from 

1  It  is  an  obvious  mistake  to  say  that  rents,    "  the  Lordis"   departed    from 

"  the  raging  storm  from  the  west"  was  Edinburgh   "  at  12  hours   at  evin  or 

"  in  the  face"  of  the  army  marching  thairby,"  of  the  1st  September  1565, 

from  Hamilton  to  Edinburgh.  and  rode  first  to  Lanark,  and  thence  to 

*  According  to  the  Diurnal  of  Occur-  Dumfries,     (p.  82.) 


502  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V, 

thence  to  Hamilton,  wliere  the  Master  of  Maxwell  came  to 
them,  with  his  uncle,  the  Laird  of  Dumlanrick.  And  after 
consultation,  the  said  Master  wrote  to  the  Queen's  Majestie, 
that  being  required  by  the  Lords  as  he  was  passing  homeward, 
he  could  not  refuse  to  come  to  them  ;  and  after  that  he  had 
given  them  counsell  to  disperse  their  army,  they  thought  it 
expedient  to  j)ass  to  Dumfreis  to  repose  them,  where  they 
would  consult  and  make  their  offers,^  and  send  to  their  Majes- 
ties ;  and  thus  beseeching  their  Majesties  to  take  this  in 
good  part.  The  town  of  Edinburgh  sent  two  of  the  Councell 
of  the  town  to  make  their  excuse. 

The  next  day  the  King  and  Queen  past  to  Sterlin,  and  sent 
to  Edinburgh,  and  caused  a  Proclamation  to  be  made,  com- 
manding all  men  to  return  to  Glasgow,  wdiere,  having  remained 
three  or  four  days,  and  understanding  that  the  Lords  were  j)ast 
to  Dumfries,  they  returned  to  Sterlin,  and  from  thence  to  Fyfe ; 
and  in  their  passage,  caused  to  take  in  Castle  Campbell,  which 
was  delivered  without  imj)ediment  to  the  Lord  of  Sanquhar. 

Before  the  King  and  Queen  went  out  of  Sterlin,  there 
came  from  Edinburgh  two  ensignes  of  footmen,  to  convey 
them  into  Fyfe.  In  the  meantime,  the  Burroughs  were  taxed 
in  great  sums  unaccustomed,  for  the  payment  of  the  souldiers : 
Farther,  there  was  raised  divers  troops  of  horsemen,  to  the 
number  of  five  or  six  hundred  horse.  The  souldiers  had  taken 
two  poor  men  that  had  received  the  Lords  wages ;  which  two 
men  being  accused  and  convinced  of,  at  the  Queen's  command, 
were  hanged  at  Edinburgh,  the  third  day  after  the  Lords  de- 
parting. At  this  time.  Master  James  Balfour,  Parson  of 
Flesk,2  had  gotten  all  the  guiding  in  the  Court. 

The  third  day  after  the  Queen's  coming  to  Fyfe,  the  whole 
Barons  and  Lairds  of  Fyfe  convoyed  her  Majestie,  till  she 

1  lu  both  editions  1644,    misprinted  Flisk."     He  was  knighted  in  1566,  and 
"  officers."  is  best  known  by  his  subsequent  title, 

2  Balfour  took  his  seat  on  the  Bench,  Sir  Jaincs  Balfour  of  Pitteudreich. 
12th  November   1561,  as   "  Parson  of 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  503 

came  to  Saint  Andrews,  where  the  said  Lairds  and  Barons, 
especially  the  Protestants,  Avere  commanded  to  subscribe  to 
a  Band,  containing  in  effect,  That  they  obliged  themselves  to 
defend  the  King  and  Queen's  persons,  against  Englishmen  and 
rebells :  and  in  case  they  should  come  to  Fyfe,  they  should 
i-esist  them  to  their  utmost  power ;  which  charge  eveiy  man 
obeyed. 

The  second  night  after  the  Queen's  coming  to  Saint  An- 
drews, she  sent  a  band,  or  troop  of  horsemen,  and  another  of 
foot^  to  Lundie,  and  at  midnight  took  out  the  Laird,  being  a 
man  of  eighty  years  old ;  then  they  past  to  Fawside,  and 
took  likewise  Thomas  Scot,  and  brought  him  to  Saint  Andrews ; 
where  they,  with  the  Laird  of  Bavard,i  and  some  others,  were 
commanded  to  prison.  This  manner  of  handling  and  usage 
being  onkend  and  strange,  were  heavily  spoken  of,  and  a  great 
terrour  to  others,  who  thought  themselves  warned  of  greater 
severity  to  come. 

In  the  meantime  the  houses  of  the  Earls  of  Murray,  Ro- 
thesse,  and  the  houses  of  divers  gentlemen,  were  given  in 
keeping  to  such  as  the  Queen  pleased,  after  that  their  children 
and  servants  had  been  cast  out. 

At  the  same  time  the  Duke,  the  Earls  of  Glencairn  and 
Argyle,  the  Lords  Boyd  and  Uchiltrie,  with  the  Laird  of  Cun- 
ninghamhead,  and  the  rest,  were  charged  to  come  and  present 
themselves  in  Saint  Andrews,  before  the  King  and  Queen's 
Majesties,  to  answer  to  such  things  as  should  be  laid  to  their 
charge,  within  six  days,  under  the  pain  of  rebellion :  And  the 
day  being  expired,  and  they  not  appearing,  were  denounced 
rebells,  and  put  to  the  horn. 

As  the  Queen  remained  in  Saint  Andrews,  the  inhabitants 
of  Dundie,  being  sore  afraid,  because  of  some  evil  report  made 
of  them  to  the  Queen,  as  if  they  had  troubled  the  Queen,  in 

'  The  persons  here  mentioned  were,  of  Hanyng,  an<l  Amhew  Murray  of 
Walter  Lundie  of  Lundie,  Thomas  Scot       Balvaird. 


504  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

seeking  men  of  war,  and  suffered  some  to  be  raised  in  their 
town  for  the  Lords ;  for  there  was  nothing  done  in  Dundie, 
but  it  was  revealed  to  the  Queen  ;  especially  that  the  Minister  i 
had  received  a  letter  from  the  Lords,  and  delivered  the  same 
to  the  Brethren,  perswading  them  to  assist  the  Lords  ;  which 
being  granted  by  the  Minister,  the  Queen  remitted  it  [for  trial] 
After  great  travell  and  supplication  made  by  some  Noblemen, 
at  length,  the  King  and  Queen  being  in  the  town,  they  agreed 
for  two  thousand  marks,  five  or  six  of  the  principall  left  out, 
with  some  others,  that  were  put  to  their  shift.  After  the  King 
and  Queen  had  remained  two  nights  in  the  town  of  Dundie, 
they  came  to  Saint  Andrews  -^  and  soon  after  they  came  over 
Forth,  and  so  to  Edinburgh.  During  this  time  the  Master  of 
Maxwell  wrote  to  the  King  and  Queen,  making  offers  for,  and 
in  the  name  of  the  Lords. 

The  next  day  after  the  King  and  Queen's  coming  to  Edin- 
burgh, there  was  a  Proclamation  made  at  the  Market  Cross : 
And  because  the  same  is  very  notable,  I  thought  good  to  in- 
sert it  here  word  by  word,  albeit  it  be  somewhat  long. 

"  Heney  and  Mary,  by  the  Grace  of  God,  King  and  Queen 
of  Scots ;   To  all  and  sundry,  our  Lieges  and  Subjects 
whom  it  may  concern,  and  to  whose  knowledge  these 
letters  shall  come,  greeting, 
"  Forasmuch  as  in  this  uproar  lately  raised  up  against  us, 
by   certain    rebels   and   their   assistants,   the   authors   there- 
of, (to  blind  the  eyes  of  the  simple  people,)  have  given  them 
to  understand,  that  the  quarrell  they  have  in  hand  is  only 
Religion,   thinking   with  that  cloke  to   cover  their  ungodly 
designs,  and  so,  under  that  plausible  argument,  to  draw  after 
them  a  large  train  of  ignorant  persons,  easy  to  be  seduced. 

1  William  Christison  was  minister  of  the  19th,  not  by  the  way  of  St.  Andrews, 
Dundee.  as  here  stated,  but  by  Perth,  Dunferm- 

2  On  the  13th  and  14th  September.  line,  and  the  Queensferry.  (Chalmers's 
The  Queen  returned  to  Edinburgh  on  Life  of  Mary,  vol.  i.  p.  219.) 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  505 

Now,  for  the  preservation  of  our  good  subjects,  whose  case 

were  to  be  pitied,  if  they  blindly  should  suifer  themselves  to 

be   induced   and   trapped  in  so  dangerous  a  snare,  it   hath 

pleased  the  goodness  of  God,  by  the  utterance  of  their  own 

mouths  and  writings  to  us,  to  discover  the  poison  that  before 

lay  hid  in  their  hearts,  albeit  to  all  persons  of  clear  judgment 

the  same  was  evident  enough  before :     For  what  other  thing  1 

miffht  move  the  principal  raisers  of  this  tumult  to  put  them-  ^9*^  ^^^^ 

"^        ^  -^    .        -^  tins  agrees 

selves  in  arms  against    us   so   unnaturally,   upon   whom   We  with  our 

had  bestowed  so  many  benefits  ;  but  that  the  great  honour 
We  did  them,  they  being  thereof  unworthy,  made  them  mis- 
know  themselves ;  and  their  ambition  could  not  be  satisfied 
with  heaping  riches  upon  riches,  and  honour  upon  honour, 
unless  they  retain  in  their  hands  us  and  our  whole  Realme, 
to  be  led,  used,  and  disposed  at  their  pleasure.  But  this 
could  not  the  multitude  have  perceived,  if  God,  (for  disclos- 
ing their  hypocrisy,)  had  not  compelled  them  to  utter  their 
unreasonable  desire  to  govern ;  for  now  by  letters,  sent  from 
themselves  to  us,  which  make  plain  profession,  that  the  es- 
tablishing of  Religion  will  not  content  them,  but  We  must  be 
forced  to  govern  by  Councell,  such  as  it  shall  please  them  to 
appoint  us  ;  a  thing  so  farre  beyond  all  measure,  that  We  think  ^^^  *^s  be 
the  only  mention  of  so  unreasonable  a  demand  is  sufiicient  to  with  our 
make  their  nearest  kinsfolks  their  most  mortall  enemies,  and  ™^^' 
all  men  to  run  on  them  without  further  scrujDle,  that  are 
zealous  to  have  their  native  country  to  remain  still  in  the  state 
of  a  kingdom:  For  what  other  thing  is  this,  but  to  dissolve 
the  whole  policie ;  and,  (in  a  manner,)  to  invert  the  very  order 
of  nature,  to  make  the  Prince  obey,  and  subjects  command. 
The  like  was  never  demanded  by  [of]  any  of  our  most  noble  pro- 
genitors heretofore,  yea,  not  of  Governors  and  Regents ;  but  the 

1  In  both  edit.   1644,   the  following  to  invert  the  very  order,"  are  here  in- 

words,  (which  occur  twenty-one  lines  serted,   inclosed   within  brackets,  and 

lower  down,)  viz.,  "  is  this,  but  to  dis-  printed  in  italic  type,   rendering  the 

solve  the  whole  policy,  and  in  a  manner  Avhole  passage  unintelligible. 


gently. 


506  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V, 

Prince,  and  such  as  have  filled  their  place,  chose  their  Councell 
of  such  as  thej  thought  most  fit  for  the  purpose.  When  We 
ourselves  were  of  less  age,  and  at  our  first  returning  into  this 
our  Realme,  We  had  free  choice  of  our  Councell  at  our  pleasure, 
and  now  when  We  are  at  our  full  maturity,  shall  We  be  brought 
back  to  the  state  of  pupills,  and  be  put  under  tutorj  ?  So  long 
as  some  of  them  bore  the  whole  sway  with  us,  this  matter  was 
never  called  in  question ;  but  now  when  they  cannot  be  longer 
permitted  to  do  and  undoe  all  at  their  pleasure,  they  will 
put  a  bridle  into  our  mouthes,  and  give  us  a  Councell  chosen 
after  their  fantasie.  This  is  the  quarrell  of  Religion  they  made 
you  beleeve  they  had  in  hand  :  This  is  the  quarrell  for  which 
they  would  have  you  hazard  your  lands,  lives,  and  goods,  in 
^'tite  dili-  the  company  of  a  certain  number  of  rebels  against  your  naturall 
Prince.  To  speak  in  good  language,  they  would  be  Kings 
themselves,  or  at  the  least  leaving  to  us  the  bare  name  and 
title,  and  take  to  themselves  the  credit  and  whole  administra- 
tion of  the  kingdome. 

"  We  have  thought  good  to  make  publication  hereof,  to  shew, 
that  you  sufi'er  not  yourselves  to  be  deceived  under  pretence  of 
Religion,  to  follow  them,  who  prefering  their  particular  ad- 
vancement to  the  publike  tranquilitie,  and  having  no  care  of 
you,  in  respect  of  themselves,  would  (if  you  would  hearken  to 
their  voice)  draw  you  after  them,  to  your  utter  destruction. 
Assuring  you,  that  you  have  heretofore  good  experience  of  our 
clemency,  and  under  our  wings  enjoyed  in  peace  the  possession 
of  your  goods,  and  lived  at  liberty  of  your  conscience,  so  may 
you  be  in  full  assurance  of  the  like  hereafter,  and  have  us 
alwayes  your  good  and  loving  Princes,  to  so  many  as  shall  con- 
tinue your  selves  in  due  obedience,  and  do  the  office  of  faith- 
full  and  naturall  subjects. 

"  Given  under  our  Signet  at  Saint  Andrews,  the  tenth  of 
December  [September],  and  of  our  Reigns  the  first 
and  twentie  three  years.  1565." 


15G.J.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  507 

Now,  the  Lords  desired,  next  the  establishing  of  Religion, 
that  the  Queens  Majesty,  in  all  the  affairs  of  the  Realme  and 
Commonwealth,  should  use  the  counsell  and  advice  of  the 
Nobility,  and  ancient  blood  of  the  same ;  whereas  in  the  mean 
time  the  councell  of  David,  and  Francisco,  the  Italians,^  with 
Fowler  the  Englishman,  and  Master  James  Balfour,  parson  of 
Flisk,  was  preferred  before  all  others,  save  only  the  Earle  of 
At  hole,  who  was  thought  to  be  a  man  of  grosse  jugement,  but 
neverthelesse  in  all  things  given  to  please  the  Queen.  It  was 
now  finally  come  to  this  point,  that  instead  of  law,  justice,  and 
equity,  only  will  ruled  in  all  things. 

Tliere  was  thorow  all  the  countrie  set  out  a  Proclamation  in 
tlie  King  and  Queen's  names,  commanding  all  persons  to  come 
and  meet  them  at  Sterlin,  the  first  day  of  October  following, 
with  twenty  dayes  provision,  under  pain  of  life,  lands,  and 
goods.  It  was  uncertain  whether  their  Majesties  intended  to 
passe  from  Sterlin  or  not,  and  I  beleeve  the  principaU  men 
knew  not  well  at  that  time ;  for  a  report  was,  that  by  reason 
the  Castles  of  Hamilton  and  Draffen  were  kept  fortified  and 
victualled  at  the  Duke's  command,  that  they  would  passe  to 
siege  the  said  houses,  and  give  them  some  shot  of  a  canon : 
others  said,  they  would  passe  towards  my  Lord  of  Argile,  who 
had  his  peoi^le  alwayes  aniied,  whereof  his  neighbours  were 
afraid,  especially  the  inhabitants  of  Athole  and  Lenox  ;  but  at 

^  Of  these  Italians  the  one  was  David  was  the  11th  .June  1560.  Immediately 
Riccio,  the  other  was  Seinzeonr  Francis  after  whose  death,  he  had  received  ^£1 20. 
de  Bisso,  or  Busso,  whose  name  occurs  (Treasurer  s  Accounts.)  In  the  same  Re- 
in the  Treasurer's  Accoimts  as  receiving  gister,  last  September  1563,  we  find  that 
a  pension  of  £100  paid  half-yearly  from  "  Seigneour  Francis  de  Busso,  Knycht  of 
Whitsimday  loGl.  In  the  Register  of  the  Order  of  Sanct  James  of  the  Sword, 
Signatui-es  in  the  Office  of  the  Comptrol-  one  of  our  Maisters  of  Household,"  was 
ler,  28th  May  1562,  Queen  Mary  men-  appointed  by  the  Queen  '•  Superintend- 
tions  that  "the  Seigneour  Francisque  ant  and  Ourseare  General!  of  her  Hienes 
has  done  long  service  unto  the  Quene  biggingis,  reparationis,  wartds,  policies, 
our  Mother, "and  tlirects  that  he  receive  &c.,"  with  a  salary  of  .£-300. — ■•  John 
'•  gude  and  thankfull  payment  of  his  Francbco  de  Bu5so  knycht."  died  in 
wages  of  Ma.ster  Household,"  since  the  April  1576.  (Register  of  Confirmed 
day  of  the  Q\ieen  Regent's  death,  which  Testaments.) 


508  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

length  it  was  concluded  tliat  tliey  should  passe  to  Dumfries, 
as  shall  be  declared. 

During  this  time  there  were  propositions  made  continually 
to  the  King  and  Queen  by  the  Lords,  desiring  alwayes  their 
Majesties  most  humbly  to  receive  them  into  their  hands. 
Their  Articles  tended  continually  to  these  two  heads,  viz.,  To 
abolish  the  Masse,  root  out  Idolatry,  and  establish  the  true 
Religion  :  And  that  they  and  the  affaires  of  the  Realm  should 
be  governed  by  the  advice  and  counsell  of  the  true  Nobility  of 
the  same  ;  offering  themselves,  and  their  cause,  to  be  tried  by 
the  lawes  of  the  countrey.  Yet  nothing  could  be  accepted  nor 
taken  in  good  part,  albeit  the  Master  of  Maxwell  laboured  by 
all  means  to  redresse  the  matter,  who  also  entertained  the 
Lords  most  honourably  in  Dumfreis,  for  he  had  the  goverment 
of  all  that  countr}'-.  But  he  himself  incurred  the  Queen's 
wrath  so,  that  he  was  summoned  to  present  himself,  and  appear 
before  the  King  and  Queens  Majesties,  after  the  same  form 
that  the  rest  of  the  Lords  were  charged  with ;  and  also  com- 
manded to  give  over  the  house  of  Lochmaben,  and  the  Castle, 
which  he  had  in  keeping  for  the  Queen.  And  albeit  he  obeyed 
not,  yet  was  he  not  put  to  the  horn,  as  the  rest.  Neverthe- 
less there  was  no  man  that  doubted  of  his  good  will  and  par- 
taking with  the  Lords,  who  in  the  mean  time  sent  Robert 
Melvin  to  the  Queen  of  England,  and  declared  their  state  to 
her  Majesty,  desiring  support. 

Now,  the  chief  care  and  solicitude  that  was  in  the  Court, 
was,  by  what  means  they  might  come  to  have  money ;  for  not- 
withstanding this  great  preparation  for  war,  and  eminent 
appearance  of  trouble,  yet  were  they  destitute  of  the  sinewes 
of  war:^    Albeit  the  Treasurer,  and  now  Comptroller,  ^  to  wit, 

*  In  i>lace  of  200  men  wliich  the  town  seel  on  the  26th.     (Maitland's  Hist,  of 

of  Edinburgh  were   ordered    to   levy,  Edinburgh,  p.  26.) 

as  they  voted  on  the  24th  August  the  -  Robert   Richardson,   Prior   of  St. 

sum  of  £1000  Scottish  money,  an  ex-  Mary's  Isle,  was  Treasurer,  and  William 

emption  in  the  Town's  favour  was  pas-  Murray  of  TuUibardinc,  Comptroller. 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  509 

tlie  Laird  of  Tillibardin,  liad  disbursed  many  thousands ;  yet 
there  Avas  no  appearance  of  payment  of  souldiers,  nor  scarcely 
how  the  King  and  Queen's  houses  and  pompous  trains  should 
be  upholden  -A  there  was  about  600  horsemen,  besides  the 
guard  and  three  ensignes  of  footmen.  The  charge  of  the 
whole  would  amount  to  df'lOOO  sterling,  every  month  ;  a  thing 
surpassing  the  usuall  manner  of  Scotland. 

At  this  time  arrived  the  Earl  of  Bothwell,^  who  was  welcome, 
and  graciously  received  by  the  Queen,  and  immediately  placed 
in  Councell,  and  made  Lieutenant  of  the  West  and  Middle 
Marches.  Now  as  every  one  of  the  Burrows  ^  compounded  to  be 
exempted  from  this  meeting  ;  the  Earl  of  Athole  demanded  of 
Edinburgh  ^£"200  sterling,  but  they  refused  to  pay  it ;  notwith- 
standing, October  27th,  there  was  a  certain  number  of  the 
principall  and  rich  persons  of  the  town  warned  by  a  Macer  to 
pass  to  the  Palace  of  Hallyinidhouse  to  the  King  and  Queen, 
who  declared  to  them  by  their  own  mouth's  speaking  that  they 
had  use  for  money,  and  therefore  knowing  them  to  be  honest 
men,  and  the  inhabitants  of  the  best  citie  in  their  countrey, 
they  must  needs  charge  them ;  and  for  security  they  should 
have  other  men  bound  for  pledges,  or  any  hand  therefore. 
The  sum  that  they  desired  was  ddOOO  sterling,  and  no  less. 
They  being  astonished,  made  no  answer;  but  Parson  Flisk 
standing  by,  said,  that  seeing  the  King  and  Queens  Majesties 
desired  them  so  civilly,  in  a  thing  most  lawfull  in  their  neces- 
sitie,  they  did  shew  themselves  not  honest  to  keep  silence  and 
'  give  no  answer  to  their  Majesties,  for  that  must  needs  be  had 
of  them  which  was  required ;  and  if  they  would  not,  they 
should  be  constrained  by  the  laws,  which  they  would  not  abide  ; 
for  some  of  them  had  deserved  hanging,  (said  he,)  because  they 

^  In  the  Treasurer's   Accounts,  16tli  -  Bothwell   arrived  from  France  on 

January  1564-5,  the  balance  due  on  the  the  17th  September  1565.     (Diurnal  of 

previous  year's  accounts  was  £32,696,  Occurrents,  p.  83.) 

16s.  Id.;  and  in  June  1566,  this  sum  ^  In  both  editions  1644,  misprinted, 

was  auginented  to  £42,987,  19s.  4d.  "  Barons." 


510 


THE  HISTORY  OF 


Book  V. 


So  was  the 
Citie  of 
London, 
for  waiTe 
against 
Scotland, 
vexed  for 
the  leavie 
money. 


had  lent  large  sums  of  money  to  the  King  and  Queen's  enemies 
and  rebels ;  and  therefore,  they  must  shortly  suffer  great 
punishment. 

Soon  after  they  were  called  in  one  by  one,  and  demanded 
how  much  they  would  lend  ?  Some  made  this  excuse,  and 
some  that,  by  reason  there  were  that  offered  to  lend  money ; 
amongst  whom  there  was  one  offered  to  lend  ,^20.  To  him 
the  Earle  of  Athole  said,  thou  art  worthy  to  be  hanged  that 
speakest  of  dP20,  seeing  the  Princes  charge  thee  so  easily. 
Finally,  they  were  all  imprisoned,  and  souldiers  set  over  them, 
having  their  muskets  ready  charged,  and  their  match  lighted, 
even  in  the  house  with  them,  where  they  remained  all  that 
night,  and  the  next  day  till  night ;  and  then  being  changed 
from  one  prison  to  another,  there  were  six  chosen  out  and  sent 
in  the  night  to  the  Castle  of  Edinburgh,  convoyed  with  mus- 
ketteers  round  about  them,  as  if  they  had  been  murtherers  or 
most  vile  persons.  At  length,  (the  third  day,l)  by  means  of  the 
Laird  of  Craigmiller,  Provest,  and  some  others,  the  summe  was 
made  more  easie,  to  wit,  a  1000  marks  sterling,  to  be  paid 
immediately,  and  to  have  the  superioritie  of  Leith  in  pledge, 
(to  wit,)  upon  condition  of  redemption.2     And  besides  the  said 


*  They  were  summoned  on  the  27th, 
and  on  the  29th  September,  "  the  six" 
were  taken  to  the  Castle  of  Edinburgh. 
The  agreement  for  the  Superiority  of 
Leith  was  made  on  the  6th  October. 
(Diurnal  of  Occm-rents,  p.  84.) 

«  This  kind  of  compulsory  assessment, 
terminating  however  in  an  advanta- 
geous bargain  for  the  Town  of  Edin- 
burgh, is  partly  confirmed  by  the  Coim- 
cil  Records.  The  Town's  revenues  being 
exhausted,  the  inhabitants  contributed 
the  sum  of  10,000  marks  Scotish  money. 
This  sum  was  advanced  by  way  of  loan 
by  381  persons,  whose  names,  and  the 
amount  of  their  contributions,  appear  in 
the  Records— the   larger  sums  being 


furnished  by  twenty-five  persons, "men 
of  law;"  and  the  Town  of  Edinbui'gh 
received  a  charter  of  the  Superiority  of 
Leith,  dated  14th  November  1565.  In 
April  following,  the  Queen  having  re- 
pented of  this  bargain,  wrote  to  the 
Magistrates  of  Etlinburgh  to  delay 
taking  possession  of  the  town  of  Leith ; 
but  this  request  it  stated,  "  they  obsti- 
nately ganestude."  This  Superiority 
has  been  retained  for  nearly  three  cen- 
turies, to  the  pi-ejudice  of  the  one,  and 
with  perhaps  less  advantage  to  the 
other  than  might  have  been  anticipated. 
(Council  Register,  vol.  iii.  fol.  136; 
Maitland's  Hist,  of  Edinburgh,  p.  27 ; 
Campbell's  Hist,  of  Leith,  p.  92.) 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  511 

sum  of  1000  marks  sterling,  they  paid  ef'lOOO  sterling-  for  tlio 
meeting  at  Dumfries.  At  the  day  appointed,  for  electing  the 
officers,  the  Queen  sent  in  a  ticket,  such  as  she  would  have 
them  chuse  for  Provest,  Bailiffs,  and  Councell,  Avhereof  there 
was  a  number  of  Papists,  the  rest  not  worthy.  Of  the  num- 
ber given  in  by  the  Queen,  they  named  such  as  should  rule  for 
that  year ;  notwithstanding,  without  free  election,  the  Laird 
[of]  Craigmiller  remained  Provest,^  who  shewed  himself  most 
willing  to  set  forward  Religion,  to  punish  vice,  and  to  main- 
tain the  Commonwealth.  All  this  time  the  Ministers  cried 
out  against  the  Masse,  and  such  idolatry ;  for  it  was  more  ad- 
vanced by  the  Queen  then  before. 

The  first  day  of  October,  met  in  Edinburgh  the  Superinten- 
dant  of  Lothian,  with  all  the  Ministers  under  his  charge,  ac- 
cording to  their  ordinary  custom ;  for  eveiy  Superintendant 
used  to  convene  the  whole  Ministry,  and  there  it  was  com- 
plained on,  that  they  could  get  no  payment  of  their  stipends, 
not  only  about  the  city,  but  thorow  the  whole  Realm.  There- 
fore, after  reasoning  and  consultation  taken,  they  framed  a 
Supplication,  directed  to  the  King  and  Queen,  and  imme- 
diately presented  the  same  to  their  Majesties,  by  Master  John 
Spottswood,  Superintendant  of  Lothian,  and  Master  David 
Lindsey,  Minister  of  Leitli :  It  contained  in  effect,  that  foras- 
much as  it  had  pleased  the  King  and  Queen's  Majesties,  (with 
advice  of  the  Privy  Councell,)  to  grant  unto  the  Ministers  of 
the  Word  their  Stipends,  to  be  taken  of  the  Thirds  of  the  Be- 
nefices, Avliich  Stipends  are  now  detained  from  the  said  Minis- 
ters by  reason  of  the  troubles,  and  changing  of  the  Comptrol- 
ler, whereby  they  are  not  able  to  live ;  and  therefore  most 
humbly  craved  the  King  and  Queen's  Majesty  to  cause  them 

1  Douglas  was  discharged  from  the  p.  81.)    He  was  knighted,  and  Sir  Symon 

office  of  Provost  on  the   24th,  (see  page  Preston  of  Craigmillar  continued  as  Pro- 

498,)  and  Preston  elected  on  the  2oth  vost  of  Edinburgh  for  four  successive 

August  1565.     (Diui-nal  of  Occurrents,  years,  from  1565  to  1568. 


512  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V, 

to  be  paid.     Their  answer  was,  Tliat  they  would  cause  order 
to  be  taken  therein  to  their  contentment. 

Soon  after  the  Lord  Gordon  came  to  Edinburgh,  and  left 
the  most  part  of  his  people  at  Sterlin  with  his  carnage  ;  the 
King  and  Queen,  for  hope  of  his  good  service  to  be  done, 
restored  him  to  his  father's  place,  to  the  Earldom  of  Huntley, 
the  lands  and  heritage  thereof. 

October  8.  the  King  and  Queen  marched  forth  of  Edinburgh 
towards  Dumfries,  and  as  they  passed  from  the  Palace  of  Hally- 
rud-house,  all  men  were  warned  with  jack  and  spear.  The 
first  night  they  came  to  Sterlin,  and  the  next  to  Craford.  The 
day  after,  the  Lairds  of  Drumlanrick  and  Lochinvar  met  the 
Queen,  albeit  they  had  been  with  the  Lords  familiar  enough. 

The  Lords  perceiving  that  all  hope  of  reconciliation  was  past, 
they  rode  to  Ednam  [Annan],  M'here  they  remained  till  the 
Queen  came  to  Dumfries,  and  then  they  past  to  Carlile.  Now 
the  Master  of  Maxwell,  who  had  entertained  the  Lords  familiarly, 
and  subscribed  with  them,  and  had  spoken  as  highly  against 
their  enemies  as  any  of  themselves,  and  had  received  large 
money  by  that  means,  to  wit,  dC'lOOO,  to  raise  a  band  or  troup 
of  horsemen ;  and  that  the  same  day  the  King  and  Queen  came 
to  Dumfries ;  the  third  day  after  their  coming,  he  came  to 
them,  conveyed  by  the  Earl  Bothwell,  with  divers  other  Noble- 
men. At  length  the  Earls  of  Athole  and  Huntley  were  sure- 
ties for  him,  and  all  things  past  remitted,  upon  condition  that 
he  should  be  a  faithfull  and  obedient  subject  hereafter.  The 
same  day  they  made  musters  ;  the  next  day  the  army  was 
dispersed,  being  about  18,000  men:  the  King  and  Queen  past 
to  Lochmaben,  where  the  Master  of  Maxwell  gave  a  banquet, 
and  then  forthwith  marched  to  Tweddall,  so  to  Peblis,  and 
then  to  Edinburgh. 

The  best  and  chief  part  of  the  Nobility  of  this  Realm,  who 
also  were  the  principal  instruments  of  the  Reformation  of 
Religion,  and  therefore  were  called  the  Lords  of  the  Congre- 


1560.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  513 

gation,  ill  manner  above  rehearsed,  were  banished  and  chased 
into  England  :  they  were  courteously  received  and  entertained  ^^^^^y)'" 
by  the   Earl  of  Bedford,    Lieutenant,    upon    the   Borders   of 
England.     Soon  after  the  Earle  of  Murray  took  post  towards 
London,  leaving  the  rest  of  the  Lords  at  Newcastle ;   every 
man  supposed  that  the  Earl  of  Murray  should  have  been  gra- 
ciously received  of  the  Queen  of  England,  and  that  he  should 
have  gotten  support  according  to  his  heart's  desire ;  but  far 
beyond  his  expectation,  he  could  get  no  audience  of  the  Queen 
of  England :     But   by   means  of  the   French    Ambassadour, 
called  Monsieur  De  Four,  his  true  friend,  he  obtained  audience. 
The  Queen,  with  a  fair  countenance,  demanded,  "  How  he,  be- 
ing a  rebel  to  her  Sister  of  Scotland,  durst  take  the  boldness 
upon  him  to  come  within  her  Realm  ?"     These,  and  the  like 
words  got  he,  instead  of  the  good  and  courteous  entertainment 
expected.     Finally,  after  private  discourse,  the  Ambassadour 
being  absent,    she   refused  to   give   the   Lords   any  support, 
denying  plainly  that  ever  she  had  promised  any  such  thing  as 
to  support  them,  saying,  "  She  never  meant  any  such  thing  in  Note  diii- 
that  Avay ;"  albeit  her  greatest  familiars  knew  the  contrary.  Q^eg^  Eli. 
In  the  end,  the  Earl  of  Murray  said  to  her,   "  Madam,  what-  ^*''®*'^- 
soever  thing  your  Majesty  meant  in  your  heart,  we  are  thereof 
ignorant ;  but   thus  much  we  know  assuredly,  that  we  had 
lately  faithfull  promises  of  aid  and  support  by  your  Ambas- 
sadour, and  familiar  servants,  in  your  name :  and  further,  we 
have  your  own  hand-writting,  confirming  the  said  promises." 
And  afterward  he  took  his  leave,  and  came  northward  from 
London,  towards  Newcastle.     After  the  Earl  of  Murray  his  Here  mark 
departure  from  the  Court,  the  Queen  sent  them  some  aid,  and  dissimuia- 
writ  unto  the  Queen  of  Scotland  in  their  favour:     "Whether  ^?°^^°^J^ 
[it  was]  she  had  promised  it  in  j^rivate  to  the  Earl  of  Murray,  constancy. 
or  whether  she  repented  her  of  the  harsh   reception  of  the 
Earl  of  Murray. 

At  this  time  David  Rizio,  Italian,  began  to  be  higher  ex- 

VOL.  II.  2  K 


514  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

alted,  insomuch  as  there  was  no  matter  or  thing  of  importance 
done  without  his  advice.  And  during  this  time,  the  faithful! 
within  this  Realm  were  in  great  fear,  looking  for  nothing  but 
great  trouble  and  persecution  to  be  shortly.  Yet  supplica- 
tions and  intercessions  were  made  thorowout  all  the  congrega- 
tions, especially  for  such  as  were  afflicted  and  banished,  that  it 
would  please  God  to  give  them  patience,  comfort,  and  con- 
stancy ;  and  this  especially  was  done  at  Edinburgh,  where 
John  Knox  used  to  call  them  that  were  banished,  the  best 
part  of  the  Nobility,  Chief  members  of  the  Congregation : 
Whereof  the  Courtiers  being  advertised,  they  took  occasion  to 
revile  and  bewray  his  sayings,  alledging,  He  prayed  for  the 
rebels,  and  desired  the  people  to  pray  for  them  likewise.  The 
Laird  of  Lethington,  chief  Secretary,  in  presence  of  the  King 
and  Queen's  Majesties  and  Councell,  confessed  that  he  heard 
the  sermons,  and  said,  There  was  nothing  at  that  time  spoken 
by  the  minister,  whereat  any  man  need  to  be  offended :  and 
further,  declared  plainly.  That  by  the  Scripture  it  was  lawfull 
to  pray  for  all  men. 

In  the  end  of  November,  the  Lords,  with  their  complices, 
were  summoned  to  appear  the  fourth  day  of  February,  for 
treason,  and  Lcese-majestie :  But  in  the  mean  time,  such  of 
the  Nobility  as  had  professed  the  evangell  of  Christ,  and  had 
communicate  with  the  Brethren  at  the  Lord's  Table,  were  ever 
longer  the  more  suspected  by  the  Queen,  who  began  to  declare 
her  self,  in  the  months  of  November  and  December,  to  be  main- 
tainor of  the  Papists  ;  for  at  her  pleasure  the  Earls  of  Lennox, 
Athole,  and  Cassels,  with  divers  others,  without  any  dissimu- 
lation known,  went  to  the  Masse  openly  in  her  chappell :  Yet, 
nevertheless,  the  Earls  of  Huntley  and  Bothwell  went  not  to 
Masse,  albeit  they  were  in  great  favour  with  the  Queen.  As 
for  the  King,  he  past  his  time  in  hunting  and  hawking,  and  such 
other  pleasures  as  were  agreeable  to  his  appetite,  having  in  his 
company  gentlemen  willing  to  satisfy  his  will  and  aifections. 


J 


]565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  515 

About  this  time,  in  the  beginning  of  ^  [the  year  1565-6,] 
as  the  Court  remained  at  Edinburgh,  the  banished  Lords,  by- 
all  means  possible,  by  writings  and  their  friends,  made  suit 
and  means  to  the  King  and  Queen's  Majesties,  to  be  received 
into  favour. 

At  this  time  the  Abbot  of  Kylwinning  came  from  New- 
castle to  Edinburgh,  and  after  he  had  gotten  audience  of 
the  King  and  Queen,  with  great  difficulty  lie  got  pardon  for  the 
Duke  and  his  friends  and  servants,  upon  this  condition,  that 
he  should  pass  into  France ;  which  he  did  soon  after.2 

The  five  and  twentieth  of  December  convened  in  Edinburgh 
the  Commissioners  of  the  churches  within  this  Realm,  for  the 
Generall  Assemblie  :  There  assisted  to  them  the  Earls  of  Mor- 
ton and  Marr,  the  Lord  Lindsay,  and  Secretary  Lethington, 
with  some  Barons  and  gentlemen.  The  principall  things  that 
were  agreed  and  concluded,  were,  That  forasmuch  as  the  Masse, 
with  such  idolatry  and  Papisticall  ceremonies,  were  still  main- 
tained expressly  against  the  Act  of  Parliament,  and  the  pro- 
clamations made  at  the  Queen's  arrivall ;  and  that  the  Queen 
had  promised  that  she  would  hear  conference  and  disputation  ; 
that  the  Church  therefore  offered  to  prove  by  the  Word  of  God, 
that  the  doctrine  preached  within  this  Realm  was  according  to 
the  Scriptures ;  and  that  the  Masse,  with  all  the  Papisticall 
doctrine,  was  but  the  invention  of  men,  and  mere  idolatry. 
Secondly,  That  by  reason  of  the  change  of  the  Comptroller, 
who  had  put  in  new  collectors,  forbidding  them  to  deliver  any 
thing  to  the  Ministry,  and  by  these  means  the  Ministry  was 
like  to  decay  and  faill,  contrary  to  the  ordinance  made  in  the 
yeer  of  God  1562,  in  favour  and  support  of  the  Ministry. 


1  Tliis  date  is  left  blank  in  both  edit.  departed  from  Edinbui-gh  towards  Eng- 

1644.  land,  having  obtaiaed  licence  to  pass  to 

*  Gavin  Hamilton,  Abbot  of  Kilwin-  France  and  Flanders,  and  to  remain  for 

ning,  delivered  up  the  Castles  of  Hamil-  five  years,  with  the  intention  of  accom- 

ton  and  Draffen,  on  the  20th  January  panying  the   Duke  of   ChatteUierault. 

1565-6.     On  the  28th  of  that  month  he  (Diurnal  of  Occiu-rents,  p.  86.) 


516  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V.. 

During  this  time,  as  the  Papists  flocked  to  Edinburgh  for 
making  court,  some  of  them  tliat  had  been  Friers,  as  black 
Abercrommy  and  Roger,  presented  supplication  to  the  Queen's 
Majesty,  desiring  in  eifect,  that  they  might  be  permitted  to 
preach  ;  which  was  easily  granted.  The  noyse  was  further, 
that  they  offered  disputation :  For  as  the  Court  stood,  they 
thought  they  had  a  great  advantage  already,  by  reason  they 
knew  the  King  to  be  of  their  Religion,  as  well  as  the  Queen, 
with  some  part  of  the  Nobility,  who  with  the  King  after 
declared  themselves  openly :  And  especially  the  Queen  was 
governed  by  the  Earls  of  Lennox  and  Athole  ;  but  in  mat- 
ters most  weighty  and  of  greatest  importance,  by  David 
Rizio,  the  Italian  afore  mentioned,  who  went  under  the  name 
of  the  French  Secretary  ;  by  whose  means,  all  grave  matters, 
of  what  weight  soever,  must  pass  ;  providing  always,  that 
his  hands  were  anoynted.  In  the  mean  time  he  was  a  mani- 
fest enemy  to  the  Evangell,  and  therefore  a  greater  enemy  to 
the  banished  Lords.  And  at  this  time,  the  principall  Lords 
that  waited  at  Court  were  divided  in  opinions  ;  for  the  Earl  of 
Morton,  Chancellor,  with  the  Earl  of  Marr,  and  Secretary  Le- 
thington,  were  on  the  one  part ;  and  the  Earls  of  Huntley  and 
Bothwell  on  the  other  part,  so  that  a  certain  di-ynesse  was 
amongst  them  ;  nevertheless,  by  means  of  the  Earl  of  Athole, 
they  were  reconciled.  Now,  as  there  was  preparation  made  by 
the  Papists  for  Christmas,  the  Queen  being  then  at  Masse,  the 
King  came  publikely,  and  bare  company ;  and  the  Friers 
preached  the  days  following,  always  using  another  stile  then 
they  had  done  seven  years  before,  during  which  time  they  had 
not  preached  publikely :  they  were  so  little  esteemed,  that 
they  continued  not  long  in  preaching. 

At  the  same  time,  convened  in  Edinburgh  the  Generall  As- 
sembly ^  of  the  Ministers,  and  Commissioners  of  the  Churches 

1  The  General  Assembly  met  on  the  former  page.  It  will  be  observed  that 
25th  December  1565.  The  first  part  of  various  other  repetitions  occur  in  this 
this  paragraph   is  reprinted  from   the       Fifth  Book. 


1565.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  517 

Reformed  within  this  Realm:  There  assisted  them  of  the 
Nobility,  the  Earls  of  Morton  and  Marr,  the  Lord  Lindsay,  and 
Secretary  Lethington,  with  others.  The  chief  things  that  were 
concluded  in  this  Assembly,  were.  That  for  the  avoyding  of  the 
plagues  and  scourges  of  God,  which  appeared  to  come  upon  the 
people  for  their  sins  and  ingratitude,  there  should  be  proclaim- 
ed by  the  Ministers  a  Publike  Fast,-^  to  be  universally  observed 
thorowout  all  the  Reformed  Churches  ;  which  manner  of  Fast- 
ing was  soon  after  devised  by  John  Knox,  at  the  command 
of  the  Church,  and  put  in  print,  wherefore  needs  not  here  to 
be  recited  in  this  place.  What  followed  upon  the  said  Fast,  At  the  end 
shall  be  plainly,  God  willing,  declared.  The  second  thing  that  Book  you 
was  ordained  in  this  Assembly,  was,  concerning  the  Ministers,  ^j^^^^  ^°^® 
who,  for  want  of  payment  of  their  stipends,  were  like  to  perish, 
or  else  to  leave  their  Ministry  ;  wherefore  it  w^as  found  neces- 
sary, that  Supplication  should  be  made  to  the  King  and 
Queen's  Majesties  :  And  for  the  same  purpose,  a  certain  num- 
ber of  the  most  able  men  were  elected  to  go  to  their  Majesties 
aforesaid,  to  lament  and  bemoan  their  case;  which  persons 
had  commission  to  propose  some  other  things,  as  shall  be 
declared. 

The  names  of  them  that  past  from  the  Church  to  the  King  ' 
and  Queen's  Majesties,  were,  Master  John  Spotswood,  Superin- 
tendent of  Lowthian  ;  John  Winrame,  Superintendent  of  Fyfe  ; 
Master  John  Row,  Minister  of  Perth  ;  Master  David  Lindsay, 
Minister  of  Leith ;  who  easily  obtained  audience  of  the  King 
and  Queen's  Majesties :  And  after  their  reverence  done.  Mas- 
ter John  Row,  in  name  of  the  rest,  opened  the  matter,  lament- 

1  On  the  28tli  December,  the  Assem-  and  Doctrine  of  the  GenerallFaste,"&c., 

bly,     "  with   one  voice,   ordained  Mr.  and  was  usually  pidnted  along  with  the 

Knox    and    Mr.    Craig,    ministers    at  Psalm  Books,  which  contained  the  Com- 

Edinburgh,  to  sett  doun  the  Forme  of  a  mon  Prayers ;  but  it  is  not  added  to 

Publick  Fast,  with  the  Exercises  to  be  Buchanan's  edition  of  Knox,  as  stated 

used  in  the  same,  and  to  cause  Robert  in  the  above  marginal  note.     It  will  be 

Lekprevik  to  print  it."     It  was  accord-  included  in  a  subsequent  volume  of  the 

ingly  set  forth  in  1566,  as  "  The  Ordour  present  series. 


518  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

ing  and  bewailing  the  miserable  state  of  the  poor  Ministers, 
who  bj  publike  command  had  been  reasonably  satisfied  three 
years  or  more,  by  virtue  of  the  Act  made  with  advice  of  the 
Honourable  Privie  Councell,  for  the  taking  up  of  the  Thirds 
of  the  Benefices,  which  was  especially  made  in  their  favours : 
Nevertheless  the  Laird  of  Tillibardin,  new  Comptroller,  would 
answer  them  nothing ;  wherefore,  they  besought  their  Majes- 
ties for  relief 

Secondly,  Seeing  that  in  all  supplications  made  to  the  King 
and  Queen's  Majesties  by  the  Church  at  all  times,  they  desired 
most  earnestly  that  all  idolatry  and  superstition,  and  especially 
the  Masse,  should  be  rooted  out  and  abolished  quite  out  of 
this  Realm ;  and  that  in  the  last  Generall  Assembly  of  the 
Church,  by  their  Commissioners,  they  had  most  earnestly  de- 
sired the  same ;  and  that  their  answer  was  then,  that  they 
knew  no  impediment  in  the  Masse  ;  therefore,  the  Assembly 
desired,  That  it  might  please  their  Highnesses  to  hear  dispu- 
tation, to  the  end  that  such  as  now  pretend  to  preach  in  the 
Chappell  Royall,  and  maintain  such  errours  ;  the  truth  being 
tryed  by  disputation,  that  they  miglit  be  known  to  be  abusers, 
submitting  themselves  always  to  the  word  of  God  written  in 
the  Scrij)tures. 

To  this  it  was  answered  by  the  Queen,  That  she  was  al- 
ways minded  that  the  Ministers  should  be  paid  their  stipends  ; 
and  if  there  was  any  fault  therein,  the  same  came  by  some 
of  their  own  sort,  meaning  the  Comptroller  Pittarow,-^  who 
had  the  handling  of  the  Thirds :  Always  by  the  advice  of  her 
Councell  she  should  cause  such  order  to  be  taken  therein,  that 
none  should  have  occasion  to  complain.  As  to  the  second, 
She  would  not  jeopard  her  Religion  upon  such  as  were  there 
present ;  for  she  knew  well  enough  that  the  Protestants  were 
more  learned. 

The  Ministers  and  Commissioners  of  Churches  perceiving 

^  Sii-  John  Wishart  of  Pittarrow,  Comptroller  :  see  page  311,  note  2. 


1565-G.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  519 

nothing  but  delay,  and  driving  off  time  in  tlie  old  manner, 
went  home  every  one  to  their  own  churches,  waiting  upon  the 
good  providence  of  God,  continually  making  supplication  unto 
Almighty  God,  that  it  would  please  him  of  his  mercy  to  re- 
move the  apparent  plague.  And  in  the  mean  time  the  Queen 
■was  busied  with  bauquetting  about  with  some  of  the  Lords  of 
the  Session  of  Edinburgh,  and  after  with  all  men  of  law,  having 
continually  in  her  comjjany  David  Rizio,  who  sat  at  table  near 
to  her  self,  sometimes  more  privately  then  became  a  man  of 
his  condition,  for  his  over-great  familiarity  was  already  sus- 
pected ;  and  it  was  thought,  that  by  his  advice  alone  the 
Queen's  sharpness  and  extremity  towards  the  Lords  was  main- 
tained. 

In  the  end  of  January-,  arrived  an  Ambassadour  from  France, 
named  Monsieur  Rambullet,!  having  Avith  him  about  fourty 
horse  in  trayn,  who  came  thorow  England.  He  brought  with 
him  the  Order  of  the  Cockle  from  the  King  of  France,  to 
the  King,  who  received  the  same  at  the  Masse,  in  the  Chappell 
of  the  Palace  of  Halyrud-house.  There  assisted  the  Earls  of 
Lenox,  Athole,  and  Eglington,  with  diverse  such  other  Papists 
as  would  please  the  Queen  ;  who,  three  days  after,  caused  the 
herald  to  convene  in  Councell,  and  reasoned  what  armes  should 
be  given  to  the  King  :  some  thought  he  should  have  the  Armes 
of  Scotland  ;  some  others  said,  Seeing  it  was  not  concluded 

1  The  Ambassador  from  France  to  feired,  at  Windsor,   on  the   Duke   of 

Scotland,  Messire  Jaques  d'Augennes.  Norfolk  and  the  Earl  of  Leicester.     On 

Seigneur  de  Rembouillet,  is  mentioned  the  10th  February,  "  at  12  hours  befoir 

in  Queen  Mary's  letters,  in  February  none,   the  Kingis  Majestie,   (Darnley,) 

1566.     (LabanofiF,  vol.  i.  pp.  319,  327.)  accumpanyit  with  his  Nobillis  in  Haly- 

He  arrived  in  Edinburgh,  on  Monday  rud-hous,  ressavit  the  Ordour  of  Knycht- 

the  4th  February  1.56-5-6,  having  come  heid  of  the  Cockill  ii-a  the  said  Rambo- 

through  England  with  a  train  of  thirty-  lat,   Ambassatour  foirsaid,  with  great 

six  horse.     (Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  p.  magnificence."     Various  banquets  were 

87.)     The  object  of  his  mission  was  to  given  to  the  Ambassador  both  in  the 

invest  Henry  Lord  Darnley   with   the  Palace  and  Castle  of  E<liuburgh ;  and 

Order  of  St.  Michael,  commonly  called  he  took  his  departure  on  the  14th  of 

the  "  Order  of  the  Cockle ;"  the  same  that  month,  retui-ning  through  England. 

honooi-  having   previously   been    con-  (ib.  p.  87.) 


520  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

in  Parliament,  that  he  should  have  the  Crown  Matrimoniall, 
he  could  have  armes  but  only  as  Duke  of  Rothesay,  Earl  of 
Rosse,  &c.  The  Queen  bade  give  him  only  his  due ;  where- 
by it  was  perceived  her  love  waxed  cold  towards  him.  Finally, 
his  armes  were  left  blank  ;  and  the  Queen  caused  put  her  own 
name  before  her  husband's  in  all  writs  ;  and  thereafter  she 
caused  to  leave  out  his  name  wholly :  And  because  formerly 
he  had  signed  every  thing  of  any  moment,  she  caused  to  make 
a  seal  like  the  King's,  and  gave  it  to  David  Rizio,  who  made 
use  of  it  by  the  Queen's  command,  all  cadging,  That  the  King 
being  at  his  pastime,  could  not  always  be  present. 

About  the  same  time,  the  Earle  of  Glencarne  came  from 
Barwicke  to  his  own  country.  Soon  after  the  Earle  of  Both- 
well  was  married  unto  the  Earle  of  Huntley  his  sister.  The 
Queen  desired  that  the  marriage  might  be  made  in  the  Chap- 
pell  at  the  Masse  ;  which  the  Earle  Bothwell  Avould  in  no  wise 
grant.  Upon  Sunday,  the  third  day  of  March,  began  the  fast- 
ing at  Edinburgh.  The  seventh  day  of  March,  the  Queen 
came  from  the  Pallace  of  Hallirud-house  to  the  Town,  in  wond- 
rous gorgious  apparell,  albeit  the  number  of  Lords  and  train 
was  not  very  great.  In  the  mean  time  the  King,  accompanied 
with  seven  or  eight  horse,  went  to  the  Leith  to  pass  his  time 
there,  for  he  w^as  not  like  to  get  the  Crown  Matrimoniall. 

In  the  Tolbooth  was  devised  and  named  the  heads  of  the 
Articles  that  were  drawn  against  the  banished  Lords,  Upon 
the  morrow,  and  Saturday  following,  there  was  great  reasoning 
concerning  the  Attainder  :  some  alleadged,  that  the  summons 
was  not  well  libelled  or  dressed  ;  others  thought  the  matter  of 
treason  was  not  sufficiently  proved  ;  and  indeed  they  were  still 
seeking  proof,  for  there  was  no  other  way  but  the  Queen 
would  have  them  all  attainted,  albeit  the  time  was  very  short ; 
the  twelfth  day  of  March  should  have  been  the  day,  which  was 
the  Tuesday  following. 

Now,  the  matter  was  stayed  by  a  marvellous  tragedy,  for  by 


1565-6.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  521 

the  Lords,  (upon  the  Saturday  before,  whicli  was  the  nintli  of 
March,  about  supper-time,)  David  Rizio  the  Italian,  named  the 
French  Secretary,  was  slain  in  the  gallery,  below  stairs,  (the 
King  staying  in  the  room  with  the  Queen,  told  her,  that  the 
designe  was  only  to  take  order  with  that  villain,)  after  that  he 
had  been  taken  violently  from  the  Queen's  presence,  who  re- 
quested most  earnestly  for  the  saving  of  his  life :  which  act 
was  done  by  the  Earle  of  Morton,  the  Lord  Ruthven,  the  Lord 
Lindsay,  the  Master  of  Kuthven,  Avith  divers  other  Gentlemen. 
They  first  purposed  to  have  hanged  him,  and  had  provided 
cords  for  the  same  purpose ;  but  the  great  haste  which  they 
had,  moved  them  to  dispatch  him  with  whingers  or  daggers, 
wherewith  they  gave  him  three  and  fifty  strokes.  They  sent 
away,  and  put  forth  all  such  persons  as  they  suspected. 

The  Earles  Bothwell  and  Huntley  hearing  the  noise  and 
clamour,  came  suddenly  to  the  Close,  intending  to  have  made 
work,  if  they  had  had  a  party  strong  enough  ;  but  the  Earle 
Morton  commanded  them  to  pass  to  their  chamber,  or  else  they 
should  do  worse :  At  the  whicli  words  they  retyred  imme- 
diately, and  so  j)ast  forth  at  a  back  window,  they  two  alone, 
and  with  great  fear  came  forth  of  the  town  to  Edmistone,  on 
foot,  and  from  thence  to  Crichton. 

This  David  Rizio  was  so  foolish,  that  not  only  he  had  drawn 
unto  him  the  managing  of  all  affaires,  the  King  set  aside,  but 
also  his  equipage  and  train  did  surpass  the  King's  ;  and  at  the 
Parliament  that  was  to  be,  he  was  ordained  to  be  Chancellour ; 
which  made  the  Lords  conspire  against  him :  They  made  a 
bond  to  stand  to  the  religion  and  liberties  of  the  countrey, 
and  to  free  themselves  of  the  slavery  of  the  villain  David 
Rizio :  The  King  and  his  father  subscribed  to  the  Bond,i  for 
they  durst  not  trust  the  King's  word  without  his  signet. 

There  Avas  a  French  priest  (called  John  Daniot)  who  ad- 
vised David  Rizio  to  make  his  fortune,  and  be  gone,  for  the 

^  On  the  1st  March  1565-G.    (See  Chalmers's  Life  of  Queen  Mary,  vol.  ii.  p.  517.) 


522  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

Scots  would  not  suffer  him  long.  His  answer  was,  That  the 
Scots  would  bragg  but  not  fight.  Then  he  advised  him  to  be- 
ware of  the  bastard.  To  this  he  answered,  That  the  bastard 
should  never  live  in  Scotland  in  his  time  ;  (he  meant  the  Earl 
Murray,)  but  it  happened  that  one  George  Dowglas,  bastard 
son  to  the  Earl  of  Angus,  gave  him  the  first  stroke.  The 
Queen,  when  she  heard  he  was  dead,  left  weeping,  and  de- 
clared she  would  study  revenge,  which  she  did. 

Immediately  it  was  noised  in  the  town  of  Edinburgh,  that 
there  was  murther  committed  within  the  King's  Palace,  where- 
fore the  Provest  caused  to  ring  the  common  bell,  or,  Sonner  le 
toksain,  (as  the  French  speaks,)  and  straightway  past  to  the 
Palace,  having  about  four  or  five  hundred  men  in  warlike  man- 
ner ;  and  as  they  stood  in  the  utter  court,  the  King  called  to 
the  Provest,  commanding  him  to  pass  home  with  his  company, 
saying,  The  Queen  and  he  were  merry.  But  the  Provest  de- 
sired to  hear  the  Queen  speak  her  self;  whereunto  it  was 
answered  by  the  King,  "  Provest,  know  you  not  that  I  am  King  ? 
I  command  you  to  pass  home  to  your  houses ;"  and  imme- 
diately they  retired. 

The  next  day  (which  was  the  second  Sunday  of  our  Fast  in 
Edinburgh)  there  was  a  proclamation  made  in  the  King's 
name,  subscribed  with  his  hand.  That  all  Bishops,  Abbots,  and 
other  Papists  should  avoid  and  depart  the  town ;  which  pro- 
clamation was  indeed  observed,  for  they  had  "  a  flea  in  their 
hose."  There  were  letters  sent  forth  in  the  King's  name,  and 
subscribed  with  his  hand,  to  the  Provest  and  Bailiffs  of  Edin- 
burgh, the  Bailiffs  of  Leith  and  Canongate,  commanding  them 
to  be  ready  in  armour  to  assist  the  King  and  his  company, 
and  likewise  other  private  writings  directed  to  divers  Lords 
and  gentlemen,  to  come  with  all  expedition.  In  the  mean 
time,  the  Queen,  being  above  measure  enraged,  offended,  and 
troubled,  as  the  issue  of  the  matter  declared,  sometime  rail- 
ing upon  the  King,  and  sometime  crying  out  at  the  windows, 


15C5-6.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  523 

desired  her  servants  to  set  lier  at  libertie  ;  for  she  was  highly 
offended  and  troubled. 

This  same  tenth  of  March,  the  Earl  of  Murray,  with  the  rest 
of  the  Lords  and  Noblemen  that  were  with  him,  having  re- 
ceived the  King's  letter,  (for  after  the  Bond,  above  named,  was 
subscribed,  the  King  wrote  unto  the  banished  Lords  to  return 
into  their  countrey,  being  one  of  the  articles  of  the  said  Bond,) 
came  at  night  to  the  Abbey,  being  also  convoyed  by  the  Lord 
Hume,  and  a  great  company  of  the  Borderers,  to  the  number 
of  1000  horses.  And  first,  after  he  had  presented  himself  to 
the  King,  the  Queen  was  informed  of  his  sudden  coming,  and 
therefore  sent  unto  him,  commanding  him  to  come  to  her ; 
and  he  obeying,  went  to  her,  who,  with  a  singular  gravitie 
received  him,  after  that  he  had  made  his  purgation,  and 
declared  the  over-great  affection  which  he  bore  continually  to 
her  Majestic.  The  Earles  of  Atliole,  Cathnes,  and  Sutherland, 
departed  out  of  the  town,  with  the  Bishops,  upon  the  Munday, 
the  third  day  after  the  slaughter  of  David  Rizio.  The  Earls 
of  Lenox,  Murray,  Morton,  and  Rothes,  Lords  Ruthven, 
Lindsay,  Boyd,  and  Ochiltrie,  sitting  in  Councell,  desired  the 
Queen,  that  forasmuch  as  the  thing  which  was  done  could 
not  be  undone,  that  she  would  (for  avoiding  of  greater  incon- 
veniences) forget  the  same,  and  take  it  as  good  service,  seeing 
there  were  so  many  Noblemen  restored.  The  Queen  dissem- 
bling her  displeasure  and  indignation,  gave  good  words,  never- 
theless she  desired,  That  all  persons  armed  or  otherwise,  (be- 
ing within  the  Palace  at  that  time,)  should  remove,  leaving 
the  Palace  void  of  all,  saving  only  her  domestick  servants. 
The  Lords  being  perswaded  by  the  uxorious  King,  and  the 
facile  Earl  of  Murray,  condescended  to  her  desire,  who  finally, 
the  next  morning,  two  hours  before  day,  past  to  Seaton,  and 
then  to  Dumbar,  having  in  her  company  the  simple  King,  who 
was  allured  by  her  sugred  words.  From  Dumbar  immediately 
were  sent  pursuivants  with  letters  thorowout  the  countrey ; 


524  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

and  especially  letters  to  the  Noblemen  and  Barons,  command- 
ing them  to  come  to  Dumbar,  to  assist  the  King  and  Queen 
within  five  days.  In  the  mean  time  the  Lords  being  inform- 
ed of  the  [Queen's]  sudden  departure,  they  were  astonished, 
and  knew  not  Avhat  were  best  for  them  to  do :  But  because 
it  was  the  self-same  day  (to  wit,  the  twelfth  day  of  March) 
tliat  they  Avere  summoned  unto  ;  therefore,  having  good  oppor- 
tunity, they  past  to  the  Tolbooth,  which  was  richly  hung  with 
tapistry,  and  adorned,  (but  not  for  them,)  and  set  themselves, 
making  protestations,  the  Earl  of  Glencarne,  and  some  others 
being  present.  The  Earl  of  Argjle,  who  was  written  for  by 
the  King,  came  to  Lithgow ;  and  being  informed  of  the 
matter,  he  remained  there. 

After  this  manner  above  specified,  to  wit,  by  the  death  of 
David  Rizio,  the  Noblemen  were  relieved  of  their  trouble,  and 
restored  to  their  places  and  rooms :  And  likewise  the  Church 
Reformed,  and  all  that  professed  the  Evangell  within  this 
Realm,  after  fasting  and  prayer,  was  delivered  and  freed  from 
the  apparent  dangers  which  Avere  like  to  have  fallen  ujjon 
them  ;  for  if  the  Parliament  had  taken  effect,  and  proceeded, 
it  was  thought  by  all  men  of  the  best  judgement,  that  the 
true  Protestant  Religion  should  have  been  wrackt,  and  Popery 
erected  ;  and  for  the  same  purpose,  there  Avere  certain^  wood- 
den  altars  made,  to  the  number  of  tAvelve,  found  ready  in  the 
Chappell  of  the  Palace  of  Halyrud-House,  AA'hich  should  have 
been  erected  in  Saint  Gyles  his  Church. 

The  Earls  Botlnvell  and  Huntley  being  informed  of  the  King 
and  Queen's  sudden  departure  forth  of  Edinburgh,  came  to 
Dumbar,  where  they  were  most  graciously  received  by  the 
Queen's  Majesty;  who  consulting  Avith  them  and  the  Master  of 
MaxAvell,  together   with  Parson  Owin^  and  Parson  riiske,^ 

'  Mr.  John  Lesley,  Parson  of  Oyne,  *  Mr.  .James  Balfour,  Parson  of  Flisk, 

was  at  this  time  raised  to  tlie  Bench,  was  admitted  Clerk  Register,  in  room  of 
and  made  Bishop  of  Ross.  Makfrill,  22d  Marcli  1 50.5-fi. 


1565-6.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  .525 

chief  Councellors,  what  was  best  to  be  done,  and  how  she 
should  be  revenged  upon  the  murtherers.  At  first  they  did 
intend  to  go  forward,  and  leaving  no  manner  of  cruelty  un- 
practised, putting  to  death  all  such  as  were  suspected :  This 
was  the  opinion  of  such  as  would  obey  their  Queen's  rage  and 
fury  for  their  own  advantage  ;  but  in  the  end  they  concluded, 
that  she  should  come  to  Edinburgh  with  all  the  force  and 
power  she  could  make,  and  there  proceed  to  justice :  and  for 
the  same  purpose,  she  caused  to  summon,  by  open  proclamation, 
all  persons  of  defence,  and  all  Noblemen  and  Grentlemen,  to 
come  to  her  in  Dumbar  incontinent.  In  the  mean  time,  the 
Captains  laboured  by  all  means  to  take  up,  and  enroll  men  and 
women.  The  Earles  of  Morton,  Murray,  Glencarne,  Rothesse, 
with  the  rest  that  were  in  Edinburgh,  being  informed  of  the 
Queen's  fury  and  anger  towards  the  committers  of  the  slaughter ; 
and  perceiving  they  were  not  able  to  make  any  party,  thought 
it  best  to  give  place  to  her  fury  for  a  time ;  for  they  were 
divided  in  ojjinions,  and  finally,  departed  out  of  Edinburgh, 
upon  Sunday  the  seventeenth  of  March,  every  one  a  several] 
way ;  for  the  Queen's  Majesty  was  now  bent  only  against  the 
slayers  of  David  Rizio  ;  and  to  the  purpose  she  might  be  the 
better  revenged  upon  them,  she  intended  to  give  pardon  to  all 
such  as  before  had  been  attainted,  for  whatsoever  crime. 

The  eighteenth  day  of  March,  the  King  and  Queen  came  to 
Edinburgh,  having  in  their  company  horse  and  foot  to  the 
number  of  8000  men  ;  whereof  there  were  four  companies  of 
foot-men  of  war.  The  Town  of  Edinburgh  went  out  to  meet 
them,  for  fear  of  war.  And  finally,  coming  within  the  town,  in 
most  aA\'full  manner  they  caused  to  place  their  men  of  war 
within  the  town,  and  likewise  certain  field-pieces  against  their 
lodging,  which  was  in  the  middle  of  the  town,  over  against  the 
Salt  Trone :  Now,  a  little  before  the  Queen's  entrance  into  the 
town,  all  that  knew  of  her  cruell  pretence  and  hatred  towards 
them,  fled  here  and  there,  and  amongst  others,   Master  James 


526  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

Macgill  the  Clerk  Register,  the  Justice  Clerk,  and  the  com- 
mon Clerk  of  the  town  :l  The  chief  Secretary  Lethington  was 
gone  before  ;  likewise  John  Knox  past  west  to  Kyle :  The  men 
of  war  likewise  kept  the  ports  or  gates.  Within  five  days  after 
their  entry,  there  was  a  proclamation  made  at  the  Market- 
Cross,  for  the  purgation  of  the  King  from  the  aforesaid 
slaughter ;  which  made  all  understanding  men  laugh  at  the 
passages  of  things,  since  the  King  not  only  had  given  his  con- 
sent, but  also  had  subscribed  the  bond  afore-named ;  and  the 
business  was  done  in  his  name,  and  for  his  honour,  if  he  had 
had  wisdom  to  know  it. 

After  this  proclamation,  the  King  lost  his  credit  among  all 
men,  and  so  his  friends,  by  this  his  inconstancy  and  weakness. 
And  in  the  mean  time,  the  men  of  war  committed  great 
outrages  in  breaking  up  doors,  thrusting  themselves  into  every 
house :  And  albeit  the  number  of  them  were  not  great,  yet 
the  whole  town  was  too  little  for  them.  Soon  after,  the  King 
and  Queen  past  to  the  Castle,  and  caused  to  warn  all  such  as 
had  absented  themselves,  by  open  proclamation,  to  appear  be- 
fore their  Majesties  and  the  Privy  Councell  within  six  days, 
under  pain  of  rebellion ;  which  practice  was  devised  in  the 
Earl  of  Huntley's  case,  before  the  battle  of  Corrichy.  And 
because  they  appeared  not,  they  were  denounced  rebells,  and 
put  to  the  home,  and  immediately  thereafter,  their  escheats 
given  or  taken  up  by  the  Treasurer.  There  was  a  certain 
number  of  the  townsmen  charged  to  enter  themselves  prison- 
ers in  the  Tolbooth,  and  with  them  were  put  in  certain 
gentlemen :  where,  after  they  had  remained  eight  days,  they 
were  convoyed  down  to  the  Palace  by  the  men  of  war,  and 
then  kept  by  them  eight  days  more :  And  of  that  number 
was  Thomas  Scot,2  Sheriff-depute  of  Saint  Johnston,  who  was 


1  Mr.  James  Makgill,  Sir  .John  Bellen-  ^  Thomas  Scott  of  Cambusmichaell, 

dea,  and  Alexander  Guthrie :  See  pages       SherifiF-Depute  of  Perth,  William  Har- 
1.56,  291.  law,  and  John  Mowbray,  bvirgesses  of 


\rm.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  527 

condemned  to  death,  and  executed  cruelly,  to  wit,  hanged  and 
quartered,  for  keeping  the  Queen  in  prison,  as  was  alleadged, 
although  it  was  by  the  King's  command :  And  two  men  like- 
wise were  condemned  to  death,  and  carried  likewise  to  the 
ladder  foot ;  but  the  Earl  Bothwell  presented  the  Queen's  ring 
to  the  Provest,  which  then  was  justice,  for  safety  of  their  life. 
The  names  of  those  two  were  John  Mowbray,  merchant,  and 
William  Harlow,  sadler.  About  the  same  time,  notwithstand- 
ing all  this  hurliburly,  the  Ministers  of  the  Church  and  pro- 
fessors of  Religion  ceased  not ;  as  for  the  people,  they  con- 
vened to  publike  prayers  and  preaching  with  boldness  ;  yea,  a 
great  number  of  Noblemen  assisted  likewise.  The  Earl  Both- 
well  had  now,  of  all  men,  greatest  access  and  familiarity 
with  the  Queen,  so  that  nothing  of  any  great  importance  was 
done  without  him ;  for  he  shewed  favour  to  such  as  liked 
him  ;  and  amongst  others,  to  the  Lairds  of  Ormeston,  Haw- 
ton,  and  Calder,^  who  was  so  reconciled  unto  him,  that  by  his 
favour  they  were  relieved  of  great  trouble. 

The  Earls  of  Argyle  and  Murray,  at  the  Queen's  command, 
past  to  Argyle,  where,  after  they  had  remained  about  a  month, 
they  were  sent  for  by  the  Queen  ;  and  coming  to  Edinburgh, 
they  were  received  by  the  Queen  into  the  Castle,  and  ban- 
quetted,  the  Earls  of  Huntley  and  Bothwell  being  present. 
At  this  time  the  King  grew  to  be  contemned  and  disesteemed, 
so  that  scarcely  any  honour  was  done  to  him,  and  his  Father 
likewise. 

About  Easter,  the  King  past  to  Sterlin,  where  he  was  shriven 
after  the  Papist  manner :  and  in  the  meane  time,  at  the 
Palace  of  Halyrud-house,  in  the  Chappell,  there  resorted  a 

Edinburgh,  were  tried  and  convicted  1st  Occurrents,  p.  98.)     This  remission  of 

April  1566.     (Pitcaii-u's  Crim.  Trials,  their  sentence  was  granted  upon  Both- 

vol.  i.  p.  480".)     Scott,  on  the  folio  whig  well's  intercession, 

day,  was  hanged  and  quartered ;    but  '  John  Cockburn  of  Ormiston,  William 

the  two  others   were  reprieved   when  Lauder  of  Halton,  and  John  Sandilands 

brought  to   the  gallows.     (Diurnal  of  of  Calder. 


528  THE  HISTORY  OF  Hook  V. 

great  number  to  the  Masse,  albeit  the  Queen  remained  still  in 
the  Castle,  with  her  Priests  of  the  Chappell  Royall,  Avhere  they 
used  ceremonies  after  the  Popish  manner. 

At  the  same  time  departed  this  life,  Master  John  Sinclair, 
Bishop  of  Rosse  [Brechin],  and  Dean  of  Restalrig,  of  whom 
hath  been  oft  mention.  President  of  the  Colledge  of  Justice, 
called  the  Session ;  who  also  succeeded  in  the  said  office  and 
dignity  after  the  decease  of  his  brother,  Master  John  [Henry] 
Sinclair,  Bishop  of  Rosse,  Dean  of  Glasgow,  who  departed  this 
life  at  Paris,  about  a  year  before.  They  were  both  learned  in 
the  laws,  and  given  to  maintain  the  Popish  religion,  and 
therefore  great  enemies  to  the  Protestants.  A  little  before 
died  Master  Abraham  Crichton,  who  had  been  President  like- 
wise.^ Now,  in  their  rooms,  the  Queen  placed  such  as  she 
pleased,  and  had  done  her  service,  (always  very  unfit.)  The 
patrimony  of  the  Kirk,  Bishopricks,  Abbeys,  and  such  other 
Benefices,  were  disposed  by  the  Queen  to  courtiers,  dancers, 
and  flatterers.  The  Earl  Bothwell,  whom  the  Queen  preferred 
above  all  others,  after  the  decease  of  David  Rizio,  had  for  his 
part  Melrosse,  Hadington,  and  New  Battell ;  likewise  the 
Castle  of  Dumbar  was  given  to  him,  with  the  principall  lands 
of  the  Earldom  of  Merclie,  which  were  of  the  patrimony  of  the 
Crown, 

At  the  same  time,  the  Superintendents,  with  the  other  Mi- 
nisters of  the  Churches,  perceiving  the  Ministery  like  to  decay 
for  lack  of  payment  of  stipends  to  Ministers,  they  gave  this 
Supplication  at  Edinburgh. 

1  There  are  several  inaccuracies  in  Wynd,  Edinburgh,  on  the  9th  April 
this  paragi-aph  in  both  editions  1644.  1566.  (Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  p.  98.) 
As  elsewhere  stated,  Mr.  Henry  Sinclair,  Abraham  Crcighton,  Provost  of  Dun- 
Rector  of  Glasgow,  who  became  Bishop  glass,  and  Official  of  Lothian,  was  ap- 
of  Ross,  and  President,  died  in  Paris  on  pointed  a  Judge  on  the  17th  February 
the  1st  January  1564-5.  His  brother,  1547-8.  His  death  took  place  before 
Mr.  John  Sinclair,  Dean  of  Restalrig,  the  15th  November  1565;  and  it  is  quite 
became  Bishop  of  Brechin,  and  Presi-  certain  he  never  was  President  of  the 
dent  of  the  Court  of  Session.  He  died  Court  of  Session.  (Haig  and  Brunton's 
in  James  Mosman's  house,  in  Forrester's  Senators,  &c.,  pp.  58,  63,  92.) 


1566.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  529 

The  Supplication  of  the  Ministers  to  the  Queen. 
"  Unto  your  Majesty,  and  your  most  honourable  Councel, 
most  humbly  and  lamentably  complains  your  Highnesse  poor 
Orators,  the  Superintendents,  and  other  Ministers  of  the  Re- 
formed Church  of  God,  travelling  thorowout  all  your  Highnesse 
Realm,  in  teaching  and  instructing  your  lieges  in  all  quarters, 
in  the  knowledge  of  God,  and  Christ  Jesus  his  Sonne ;  That 
where  your  Majesty,  with  the  advice  of  the  Councell  and 
Nobility  aforesaid,  moved  by  godly  zeal,  concluded  and  deter- 
mined, that  the  travelling  ministry  thorowout  this  Realm, 
should  bee  maintained  upon  the  rents  of.  the  Benefices  of  this 
Realm  of  Scotland  ;  and  for  that  cause  your  Majestie,  with  the 
advice  of  the  Counsell  and  Nobility  aforesaid,  upon  the  15.  day 
of  December  1562,  in  like  manner  concluded  and  determined, 
That  if  the  said  part  of  the  rents  of  the  whole  Benefices  Eccle- 
siasticall  within  this  Realm  would  be  sufficient  to  maintain 
the  Ministers  thorowout  the  whole  Realm,  and  to  support  your 
Majesty  in  the  setting  forward  of  your  common  affaires,  should 
be  employed  accordingly :  Failing  thereof,  the  Third  part  of 
the  said  fruits,  or  more,  to  be  taken  up  yearly  in  time  com- 
ming,  untill  a  generall  order  be  taken  therein  ;  as  the  act  made 
thereupon  at  more  length  bears :  Which  being  afterward  con- 
sidered by  your  Majestie,  the  whole  Thirds  of  the  fruits  afore- 
said were  propounded  to  the  uses  aforesaid,  by  Act  of  Councell. 
And  we  your  Majestie's  poore  Orators,  put  in  peaceable  posses- 
sion of  the  part  assigned  by  your  Majestie  to  us,  by  the  space 
of  three  years,  or  thereabouts,  which  we  did  enjoy  without  in- 
terruption ;  notwithstanding  all  this,  now  of  late,  we  your 
Majestie's  poore  Orators  aforesaid,  are  put  wrongfully  and  un- 
justly from  their  aforesaid  part  of  the  above  specified  Thirds, 
by  your  Majestie's  officers,  and  thereby  brought  to  such  extreme 
penury,  and  extreme  distress,  as  we  are  not  able  any  longer 
to  maintain  our  selves.     And  albeit  we  have  given  in  divers 

VOL.  II.  2  L 


530  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

and  sundiy  complaints  to  your  Majestic  herein,  and  have  re- 
ceived divers  promises  of  redress,  yet  have  we  found  no  relief : 
Therefore,  we  most  humbly  beseech  your  Majesty  to  consider 
our  most  grievous  complaint,  together  with  the  right  above  spe- 
cified, whereon  the  same  is  grounded.  And  if  your  Majesty,  with 
the  advice  of  your  Councell  aforesaid,  finds  our  right  sufficient 
to  continue  us  in  possession  of  our  part  assigned  to  us,  while, 
and  untill  a  generall  order  be  taken ;  which  possession  was 
ratified  by  the  yearly  allowance  of  your  Majesties  Exchequer's 
accompt,  that  your  Majestie  would  grant  us  letters  upon  the 
aforesaid  Act  and  Ordinance  past  thereupon,  against  all  intro- 
mettors  and  medlers  with  the  aforesaid  Thirds,  to  answer  and 
obey,  according  to  the  aforesaid  Act  and  Ordinance  of  our 
possession  proceeding  thereupon ;  and  likewise,  that  we  may 
have  letters,  if  need  be,  to  arrest  and  stay  the  aforesaid  Thirds 
in  the  possessor's  hands,  while,  and  untill  sufficient  caution  be 
found  to  us  for  our  part  aforesaid.  And  your  Answer  most 
humbly  we  beseech." 

This  Supplication  l)cing  presented  by  the  Superintendent  of 
Lowthian,  and  Master  John  Craig,  in  the  Castle  of  Edinburgh, 
was  graciously  received  by  the  Queen,  who  promised  that  she 
would  take  sufficient  order  therein,  so  soon  as  the  Nobility  and 
Councell  might  convene. 

Tlie  19.  of  June,  the  Queen  was  delivered  of  a  man  childe, 
(the  Prince  in  the  aforesaid  Castle,)  [who  after  was  named 
James,]^  and  immediately  sent  into  France  and  England  her 
posts,  to  advertise  the  neighbour  Princes,  and  to  desire  them 
to  send  gossips  or  witnesses  to  the  Prince's  baptisme.  In 
the  mean  time,  there  was  joy  and  triumph  made  in  Edinburgh, 
and  such  other  places  where  it  was  known,  after  thanks  and 
praises  given  unto  God,  with  supplications  for  the  godly  edu- 
cation of  the  Prince  ;  and  principally,  wishing  that  he  should 

'  These  words  are  added  in  the  Edinburgh  edit.  1644. 


1.56G.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  531 

be  baptized  according  to  the  manner  and  forme  observed  in 

the  Reformed  Churclies  within  this  Realm. 

About  the  same  time,  to  wit,  the  25.  of  June,  the  Generall 

Assembly  of  the  whole  Church  convened  at  Edinburgh.      The 

Earles  of  Argyle  and  Murray  assisted  at  the  Assembly :  Paul 

Metliven,  who  before,  as  we  heard,  was  excommunicate,  gave  [The  order 

in  his  Supjjlication,  and  desired  to  be  heard,  as  he  had  done  Methven's 

divers  times  ;  for  the  said  Paul  had  written  oft  times  out  of  ^^P*^'!^ 
'  ance.J 

England  to  the  Laird  of  Dun,  and  to  divers  others,  most  ear- 
nestly desiring  to  be  received  again  into  the  fellowship  of  the 
Church.  After  reasoning  of  the  matter,  it  was  finally  granted, 
that  he  should  be  heard  :  And  so  being  before  the  Assembly, 
and- falling  upon  his  knees,  burst  out  with  teares,  and  said, 
He  was  not  worthy  to  appeare  in  their  presence  ;  alwayes  he 
desired  them,  for  the  love  of  God,  to  receive  him  to  the  open 
expression  of  his  repentance.  Shortly  after,  they  appointed 
certaine  of  the  ministers  to  prescribe  to  him  the  forme  of  his 
declaration  of  repentance,  which  was  thus  in  effect ;  First,  That 
he  should  present  himselfe  bare-foot  and  bare-head,  arayed  in 
sack-cloth,  at  the  principall  entry  of  Saint  Gyles  Kirk  in  Edin- 
burgh, at  seven  hours  in  the  morning,  upon  the  next  Wednes- 
day, and  there  to  remain  the  space  of  an  hour,  the  whole  people 
beholding  him,  till  the  prayer  was  made,  psalmes  sung,  and  [the] 
text  of  Scripture  was  read,  and  then  to  come  into  the  place 
appointed  for  expression  of  repentance,  and  tarry  the  time  of 
sermon  ;  and  to  do  so  likewise  the  next  Friday  following,  and 
also  upon  the  Sunday ;  and  then,  in  the  face  of  the  whole 
church,  to  declare  his  repentance  with  his  owne  mouth.  The 
same  forme  and  manner  he  should  use  in  Jedwart  and  Dundie : 
And  that  being  done,  to  present  himself  again  at  the  next 
Genemll^  Assembly  following  in  winter,  where  he  should  be 
received  to  the  communion  of  the  Church.  When  the  said 
Paul  had  received  the  said  Ordinance,  he  took  it  very  griev- 
ously, alleadging,  they  had  used  over-great  severity :  Never- 


532  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

tlielesse,  being  counselled  and  perswaded  by  divers  notable 
personages,  he  began  well  in  Edinburgh  to  proceed,  whereby 
a  great  number  were  moved  with  compassion  of  his  state  ;  and 
likewise  in  Jedwart :  but  he  left  his  duty  in  Dundie,  and 
passing  againe  into  England,  the  matter,  not  without  offence 
to  many,  ceased. 

The  Ministers  complaining  that  they  could  not  be  payed 
their  stipends,  were  licensed  by  the  Assembly  to  passe  to  other 
churches  to  preach,   but  in  no  wise  to  leave  the  ministery. 
And  because  that  the  Queen's  Majesty  had    promised  often 
before  to  provide  remedy,  it  was  thought  expedient  that  sup- 
plication should  be  yet  made,  as  before.   That   the  Queen's 
Majestie  should  cause  such  order  to  be  taken,  that  the  poore 
ministers   might   be    payed    their   stipends.     The   Bishop   of 
Galloway,  who  was  brother  to  the  Earle  of  Huntley,  and  now 
a  great  man  in  the  Court,  travelled  much  with  the  Queen's 
Majesty  in  that  matter,  and  got  of  her  a  good  answer,  and 
faire  promises.     A  few  years  before,  the  said  Bishop  of  Gallo- 
way desired  of  the  Generall  Assembly  to  be  made  Superin- 
tendent of  Galloway  ;  but  now  being  promoted  to  great  dignity, 
as  to  be  of  the  number  of  the  Lords  of  the  Privy  Councell, 
and  likewise  one  of  the  Session,^  he  would  no  more  be  called 
See iu what  Over-looker,  or  Over-seer  of  Galloway,  but  Bishop:  Alwayes 
proud  am-  truth  it  is,  that  he  laboured  much  for  his  nephew  the  Earle  of 
men  tokes  Huntley,  that  he  might  be  restored  to  his  lands  and  honours  ; 
tlie  name  of  fQj.  i]^q  gg^j^j  Earle  was  new  Chancellor,^  since  the  slaughter  of 

Bishop.  ° 

David  Rizio,  and  had  for  his  clawback  the  Bishop  of  Bosse, 
Master  John  Lesley,  one  of  the  chief  Councellors  to  the 
Queen :  But  of  all  men  the  Earle  Bothwell  was  most  in  the 
Queen's  favour,  so  far,  that  all  things  past  by  him  ;  yea,  by  his 

^  Alexander  Gordon,  Bishop  of  Gal-  ^  George  fifth  Earl  of  Huntley  was 

loway :  see  page  259,  note  10.     He  took  created  Lord  Chancellor,  in  place  of  the 

his  seat  as  an  Extraordinary  Lord  of  Earl   of  Morton,   who   had   fled,   after 

Ses.sion,  26th  November  15f)5.  Riccio's  murder,  in  March  156G. 


1566.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  533 

meanes  the  most  part  of  all  those  that  were  partakers  in  the 
slaughter  of  David  Rizio,  got  remission  and  relief.  But  from  As  is  said 
that  day  he  was  not  present  at  any  sermon,  albeit  before  he 
professed  the  Evangel  by  outward  speaking,  yet  he  never 
joyned  to  the  Congregation.  But  this  time  the  Earle  of  Cas- 
silsi  was  contracted  with  the  Lord  of  Glames  sister,  by  whose 
perswasion  he  became  a  Protestant,  and  caused,  in  the  moneth 
of  August,  to  reform e  his  churches  in  Carrick,  and  promised  to 
niaintaine  the  doctrine  of  the  Evangell. 

The  Queen,  not  yet  satisfied  with  the  death  of  her  man 
David,  caused  in  August  to  be  apprehended  a  man  called  Hary,2 
who  sometime  had  been  of  her  Chapell-Royall,  but  afterward 
became  an  exhorter  in  a  Reformed  Church  ;  and  for  want  of 
stipend,  or  other  necessaries,  past  in  service  to  my  Lord  Ruthven, 
and  chanced  that  night  to  be  present  when  the  said  David 
was  slaine  ;  and  so,  finally,  he  was  condemned,  and  hanged, 
and  quartered. 

The  King  being  now  contemned  of  all  men,  because  the  This  iucon- 
Queene  cared  not  for  him,  he  went  sometime  to  the  Lenox  to  ^^^^^ 

^  '  young  man. 

his  father,  and  sometime  to  Sterlin,  whither  the  Prince  was  sometimes 

declared 

carried  a  little  before.    Alwayes  he  was  destitute  of  such  things  Limseifefor 
as  were  necessary  for  him,  having  scarcely  six  horses  in  trayn.  tant-^wi^' 
And   being   thus   desolate,    and   halfe   desperate,   he   sought  "^^^^  ^^^, 
means  to  go  out  of  the  countrey  :  and,  about  the  same  time.  And  now 
by  the  advice  of  foolish  cagots,  he  wrote  to  the  Pope,  to  the  Papists. 
King  of  Spaine,  and  to  the  King  of  France,  complaining  of  the  f^a  God^Jo 
state  of  the  countrey,  which  was  all  out  of  order,  all  because  i"'  '^^-''^ 

.  left  by  him. 

that  Masse  and  Popery  were  not  agame  erected,  giving  the 
whole  blame  thereof  to  the  Queen,  as  not  managing  the  Catho- 

1  Gilbert  fourth  Earl  of  Cassillis  mar-  treason"   on  the   1st  April  1566,   for 

ried  Margaret  Lyon,  only  daughter  of  accession  to  Riccio's  murder,  and  was 

John  ninth  Lord  Glammis.  sentenced  to  be  hanged  and  quartered, 

*  This  was  Henry  Yair,  sometime  a  and   his   goods    forfeited.      (Pitcaim's 

priest,   and    afterwards   a  retainer  of  Crim.  Trials,  vol.  i.  p.  481.) 
Lord   Ruthven.     He  was  "  delattit   of 


534  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

like  cause  aright.  By  some  knave,  this  poore  Prince  was  be- 
trayed, and  the  Queen  got  a  copie  of  these  letters  into  her 
hands,  and  therefore  threatened  him  sore  ;  and  there  was  never 
after  that,  any  appearance  of  love  betwixt  them. 

The  Churches  of  Geneva,  Berne,  and  Basill,  with  other  Re- 
formed Churches  of  Germany  and  France,  sent  to  the  whole 
Church  of  Scotland  the  sum  of  the  Confession  of  their  Faith,i 
desiring  to  know  if  they  agreed  in  uniformity  of  doctrine,  al- 
leadging,  that  the  Church  of  Scotland  was  dissonant  in  some 
Articles  from  them  :  Wherefore  the  Superintendents,  with  a 
great  part  of  the  other  most  qualified  Ministers,  convened  in 
September  in  Saint  Andrews,  and  reading  the  said  letters, 
made  answer,  and  sent  word  again.  That  they  agreed  in  all 
points  w^ith  those  Churches,  and  diifered  in  nothing  from  them : 
albeit  in  the  keeping  of  some  Festivall  days,  our  Church  as- 
sented not ;  for  only  the  Sabbath-day  Avas  kept  in  Scotland. 

In  the  end  of  this  month,  the  Earl  Bothwell,  riding  in  pur- 
suit of  the  theeves  in  Liddisdale,  was  ill  hurt,  and  worse  ter- 
rified by  a  thief ;  for  he  believed  surely  to  have  departed  forth 
of  this  life,  and  sent  word  thereof  to  the  Queen's  Majestic, 
w^ho  soon  after  past  forth  of  Jedwart  to  the  Hermitage  to  visit 
him,2  and  give  him  comfort  :  And  within  a  few  days  after,  she 
took  sickness  in  a  most  extreme  manner,  for  she  lay  two  hours 
long  cold  dead,  as  it  were  without  breath,  or  any  sign  of  life : 
at  length  she  revived,  by  reason  they  had  bound  small  cords 
about  her  shackle  bones,  her  knees,  and  great  toes,  and  speak- 


1  The  Helvetian  Confession  -was  form-  coiintry,  has  recently  been  printed  by 

ed  by  the  Pastors  of  Ziii-ich,  in  the  year  the  Parker  Society,  at  pages  362-365  of 

1566.    It  was  approved  of  by  the  Gener-  the  Second  Series  of  Ziirich  Letters, 

al  Assembly,  and  the  translation  made  "  Bothwell  -was  -woimded  on  the  7th 

by  Ml-.  Robert  Pont  was  ordered  to  be  or  8th  October,  and  the  Queen  did  not 

printed ;  but  no  copy  of  this  translation  visit  him  at  Hermitage  Castle  till  the 

is  known  to  be  preserved.     The  letter  16th  of  that  month.     (Chalmers's  Life 

addressed  to  Beza,  dated  St.  Andrews,  of  Mary,  vol.  i.  p.  296.     See  also  Laba- 

4th  September   1566,   and   signed  by  noif,  Recucil,  &c.,  vol.  i.  p.  379.) 
forty-one  of  the  chief  ministers  in  this 


1566.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  535 

ing  very  softly,  slie  desired  the  Lords  to  pray  for  lier  to  God. 
She  said  the  creed  in  English,  and  desired  my  Lord  of  Murray, 
if  she  should  chance  to  depart,  that  he  would  not  be  over  ex- 
treme to  such  as  was  of  her  Religion  ;  the  Duke  and  he  should 
have  been  Regents,  The  bruit  went  from  Jedwart  in  the 
month  of  October  1565,  that  the  Queen  was  departed  this  life, 
or,  at  least,  she  could  not  live  any  time,  wherefore  there  was 
continually  prayers  publikely  made  at  the  Church  of  Edin- 
burgh, and  divers  other  places,  for  her  conversion  towards  God, 
and  amendment.  Many  were  of  opinion  that  she  should  come 
to  the  preaching,  and  renounce  Popery ;  but  all  in  vain,  for 
God  had  some  other  thing  to  do  by  her.  The  King  being  ad- 
vertised, rid  post  from  Sterlin  to  Jedburgh,  where  he  found 
the  Queen  somewhat  convalesced,  but  she  would  scarce  speak 
to  him,  and  hardly  give  him  presence  or  a  good  word  ;  where- 
fore he  returned  immediately  to  Sterlin,  where  the  Prince  was, 
and  after  to  Glasgow  to  his  father. 

There  appeared  great  trouble  over  the  whole  Realm,  and 
especially  in  the  countreys  near  the  Borders,  if  the  Queen  had 
departed  at  that  time.  As  she  began  to  recover,  the  Earl 
Bothwell  was  brought  in  a  charriot  from  the  Hermitage  to 
Jedburgh,  where  he  was  cured  of  his  wounds ;  in  whose  pre- 
sence the  Queen  took  more  pleasure  then  in  all  the  rest  of  the 
world :  always  by  his  means,  most  part  of  all  that  were  out- 
lawed for  the  slaughter  of  Da\ad  Rizzio,  got  relief,  for  there 
was  no  other  means,  but  all  things  must  needs  pass  by  him  ; 
wherefore,  every  man  sought  to  him,  where  immediately  favour 
was  to  be  had,  as  before  to  David  Rizio. 

Soon  after,  the  Queen  passing  along  the  Borders,  she  came 
within  the  bounds  of  Barwick,  where  she  vieAved  the  town  at 
her  pleasure  afar  off,  being  within  half  a  mile  and  less.  All 
the  ordnance  within  Barwick  were  discharged  ;  the  Cajitain 
came  forth,  with  fourscore  horses  bravely  arrayed,  to  do  her 
honour,  and    ofter   her   lawfuU   service.     Then    .she   came   to 


536  THE  HISTUHY  OF  Booic  V. 

Craigniiller,  where  she  remained  in  November,  till  she  was  ad- 
vertised of  the  coming  of  the  Ambassadors  to  the  baptisme  of 
the  Prince ;  and  for  that  jDurpose  there  was  great  preparation 
made,  not  without  the  trouble  of  such  as  were  supposed  to 
have  money  in  store,  especially  of  Edinburgh  ;  for  there  was 
borrowed  a  good  round  summe  of  money  for  the  same  busi- 
nesse.  All  her  care  and  solicitude  was  for  that  triumph.  At 
the  same  time  arrived  the  Counte  de  Briance,  Ambassadour  of 
the  King  of  France,  who  had  a  great  train.  Soon  after  the 
Earl  of  Bedford  went  forth  of  England,  with,  a  very  gorgious 
company,  to  the  number  of  fourscore  horses,  and  passing  to 
Sterlin,  he  was  humanly  received  of  the  Queen's  Majestie,  and 
every  day  banquetted.  The  excessive  expences,  and  super- 
fluous apparell,  which  was  prepared  at  that  time,  exceeded 
farr  all  the  preparation  that  ever  had  been  devised  or  set 
forth  afore  that  time  in  this  countrey. 

The  17.  of  December  1.566,  in  the  great  hall  of  the  Castle  of 
Sterling,  was  the  Prince  baptized^  by  the  Bishop  of  Saint 
Andrews,  at  five  a  clock  at  even,  with  great  pomp,  albeit  with 
great  pain  could  they  find  men  to  beare  the  torches,  wherefore 
they  took  boyes.  The  Queen  laboured  much  with  the  Noble- 
men to  bear  the  salt,  grease,  and  candle,  and  such  other  things^ 
but  all  refused;  she  found  at  last  the  Earls  of  Eglington, 
Athole,  and  the  Lord  Seaton,  who  assisted  at  the  baptisme,  and 
brought  in  the  said  trash.  The  Counte  de  Briance,  (being  the 
French  Ambassadour,)  assisted  likewise.     The  Earl  of  Bedford 


*  The  baptism  of  the  Prince  took  place  were    used    on    that    occasion.       The 

in  the  Chapel-Royal  of  Stia-ling,  upon  Queen's  sister,  the  Countess  of  Argyle, 

Sunday  the   15th  November   1566,   at  assisted   at  the    ceremony;   for -which, 

five  in  the  evening,  being  performed  by  having  "  willingly  subniittit  hirself  to 

Hamilton,  Archbishop  of  St.  Andrews.  the  discipline  of  the  lurk  last  December 

The  English  Ambassador,  the  Earl  of  1567,"'  the  said  Lady  was  ordained  by 

Bedford,  and  most  of  the  Scotish  No-  the  General  Assembly  to  make  public 

bility,  remained  without  the  door  of  the  repentance   in   the   Chapell   Royall  of 

Chapel,  to  avoid  coimtenanciug  the  ce-  Striveling,  intimeof  preacliing."  (Book 

Vemonies  of  the  Romish  Church,  which  of  the  Universal  Kiik,  vol.  i.  p.  117.) 


]56().  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  537 

brouglit  for  a  present  from  tlie  Queen  of  England  a  font  of 
gold,  valued  to  be  worth  three  thousand  crowns.  Soon  after 
the  said  baptisme,  as  the  Earl  was  in  communing  with  the 
Queen,  who  entertained  him  most  reverently,  he  began  to  say- 
merrily  to  her,  amongst  other  talking,  "  Madame,  I  rejoyce 
very  greatly  at  this  time,  seeing  your  Majestie  hath  here  to 
serve  you  so  many  Noblemen,  especially  twelve  Earls,  whereof 
two  only  assist  at  this  baptisme  to  the  superstition  of  Popery." 
At  the  which  saying  the  Queen  kept  good  countenance.  Soon 
after  they  banquetted  in  the  said  great  hall,  where  they  want- 
ed no  prodigality.  During  the  time  of  the  Earl  of  Bedford's 
remaining  at  Sterlin,  the  Lords,  for  the  most  part,  waited  upon 
him,  and  conveyed  him  every  day  to  the  sermon,  and  after  to 
banquetting. 

The  King,  who  remained  at  Sterlin  all  that  time,  (never  be- 
ing present,)  kept  his  chamber :  His  father  hearing  how  he 
was  used,  writ  to  him  to  repaire  unto  him  ;  who  soon  after  went 
(without  good-night)  toward  Glasgow,  to  liis  father.  He  was 
hardly  a  mile  out  of  Sterlin,  when  the  poyson  (f^diich  had  been 
given  him)  wrought  so  upon  him,  that  he  had  very  great  pain 
and  dolour  in  every  part  of  his  body.  At  length,  being  arrived 
at  Glasgow,  the  blisters  brake  out,  of  a  blewish  colour ;  so  the 
Physitians  presently  knew  the  disease  to  come  by  poyson :  He 
was  brought  so  low,  that  nothing  but  death  was  expected ;  yet 
the  strength  of  his  youth  at  last  did  surmount  the  poison. 

During  the  time  of  this  triumph,  the  Queen  was  most  liber- 
all  in  all  things  that  were  demanded  of  her :  amongst  other 
things,  she  subscribed  a  writing  for  the  maintenance  of  the 
Ministers  in  a  reasonable  proportion,  which  was  to  be  taken 
up  of  the  Thirds  of  Benefices  :  which  writing  being  jjurchased 
by  the  Bishop  of  Galloway,  was  presented  at  the  Generall  As- 
sembly of  the  Church  at  Edinburgh,  the  five  and  twentieth 
day  of  December  1566,  where  were  conveened  the  Superinten- 
dents, and   other  "Ministers  in  reasonable  number,  but  verv 


538  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

few  Commissioners.  The  first  matter  that  was  there  proposed, 
was  concerning  the  said  writing  lately  obtained  ;  and  the  most 
part  of  the  Ministers  being  demanded  their  opinions  in  the 
matter,  after  advice,  and  passing  a  little  aside,  they  answered 
very  gravely.  That  it  was  their  duty  to  preach  to  the  people 
the  word  of  God  truly  and  sincerely,  and  to  crave  of  the  audi- 
tors the  things  that  were  necessary  for  their  sustentation,  as 
of  duty  the  Pastour  might  justly  crave  of  their  flock ;  and, 
further,  it  became  them  not  to  have  any  care.  Nevertheless, 
the  Assembly  taking  into  consideration,  that  the  said  gifts 
granted  by  the  Queen's  Majestie  Avas  not  to  be  refused,  they 
ordained,  That  certain  faithfull  men  of  every  Shire  should 
meet,  and  do  their  utmost  diligence  for  gathering  and  receiv- 
ing the  said  corn  and  money  ;  and  likewise  appointed  the  Su- 
perintendent of  Lowthian,  and  Master  John  Ilow,l  to  waite 
upon  the  Bishop  of  Galloway,  and  concurre  and  assist  him  for 
further  expedition  in  the  Court,  that  the  said  gift  might  be 
dispatched  through  the  Scales. 

In  the  same  Assembly,  there  was  presented  a  remonstrance 
by  writ,  by  some  gentlemen  of  Kyle,  containing  in  effect.  That 
inasmuch  as  the  Tythes  ought  to  be  given  only  to  the  Minis- 
ters of  the  Word,  and  Schools,  and  for  maintenance  of  the 
poore,  that  therefore  the  Assembly  would  statute  and  ordain, 
That  all  the  Professors  of  the  Evangell  should  keep  the  same 
in  their  own  hands,  to  the  effects  aforesaid,  and  no  way  permit 
the  Papists  to  meddle  therewith.  This  Avriting  took  no  effect 
at  that  time,  for  there  was  none  else  but  the  gentlemen  of  Kyle 
of  that  opinion.  It  was  statuted  in  the  said  Assembly,  That 
such  publike  fornicators,  and  scandalous  livers,  as  would  not 
confesse  their  offences,  nor  come  to  declare  their  repentance, 
should  be  declared  by  the  Minister  to  be  out  of  the  Church, 

1  The  Lairds  of  Garden  (Alexander  Bishop   Gordon  and  Spottiswood,   the 

Forrester)    and  Keir  (James  Stirling)  Superintendent  in  this  matter.     Eow's 

were  appointed  by  the  Assembly  on  the  name  is  not  mentioned  in  tlie  Booke  of 

26th  December  150(),  to  act  aloncr  with  the  Kirk.     (v.il.  i.  p.  83.) 


l.OGti.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  530 

and  not  of  the  body  thereof,  and  their  names  to  be  declared 
publikely  upon  the  Sunday. 

After  this  Assembly,  the  Bishop  of  Galloway  (with  the  jnlend^ng'^ 
Superintendent  of  Lowthian  and  Master  John  Row)  passing  to  ^^^J^^eance 
Sterlin,  obtained  their  demands  in  an  ample  manner  at  the  poor  King, 

^  J    T«/r    •        •      1         1  T  1     •     1      •  1  T1         •        and  being 

Queen  s  Majesties  hand,  according  to  their  desire  ;  and  likewise,  iniovewith 
they   obtained  for  every  borough,  a  gift  or  donation  of  the  JJ^^^jf^gJj 
altarae-es,  annuals,  and  obites,  which  before  were  given  to  the  grants  to 

.    ^     '  '  '  .  P      1      theProtes- 

Papists,   now   to   be    disposed   for   the    maintenance  of   the  tants  their 
Ministers  and  Schools  within  the  boroughs,  and  the  rest  to  ^j^^^^^.  ^^^^^ 
the  Poor,  or  hospitall.  S^and 

[It  was  ordained  1  that  humble  supplication  should  be  made  not  trouble 
to  the  Lords  of  Secret  Councell  concerning  the  Commission  of 
Jurisdiction  supposed  to  be  granted  to  the  Bishop  of  Saint 
Andrews,  to  the  effect  their  honours  may  stay  the  same,  in 
respect  that  the  causes  for  the  most  part  judged  by  his  usurped 
authoritie,  pertaine  to  the  true  Kirk  ;  and  also,  because  in 
respect  of  that  coloured  Commission,  he  might  assume  againe 
his  old  usurped  authoritie,  and  the  same  might  be  a  mean  to 
oppresse  the  whole  Kirk.  The  tenour  of  the  Supplication  fol- 
loweth. 

"  The  Generall  Assembly  of  the  Kirk  of  Scotland  con- 
veenedat  edinburgh  the  25.  of  december  1566,  to  the 

NOBILITIE     OF     THIS     ReALME     THAT     PROFESSE     THE    LORD 

Jesus  with  them,  and  have  renounced  that  Romane 
Antichrist,    Desires    constancie    in   faith,   and   the 

SPIRIT  of  righteous  JUDGEMENT. 

"  Seeing  that  Satan,  by  all  our  negligences,  (Right  Honour- 
able,) hath  so  far  prevailed  within  this  Realme  of  late  dayes 
that  we  do  stand  in  extream  danger,  not  onely  to  losse  our 

1  This   paragraph,  along    with    the  the  Edinburgh  edition  of  the  History, 

following  Supplication  of  the  Assembly,  1644,  4to,  not  being  contained  in  the 

and  Knox's   Letter  to   the  Professors,  London  edition  of  that  year,  folio, 
ending  on  page  o44,  are  supplied  from 


540  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

John  Knox  temporall  possessions,  but  also  to  be  deprived  of  the  glorious 
cation  to  Evaiigell  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  so  we  and  our  posterity  to  be 
ceU  toTe-  ^®^^  "^  damnable  darknesse  ;  We  could  no  longer  contain  our 
call  the      selves,  nor  keep  silence,  lest  bv  so  doino:  we  mioht  be  accused 

commis-  .  l  5  J  t>  » 

sion  grant-  as  guilty  of  the  blood  of  such  as  shall  perish  for  lack  of  admo- 
nition, as  the  Prophet  threatneth.  We  therefore,  in  the  fear  of 
our  Grod,  and  with  grief  and  anguish  of  our  heart,  complain 
unto  your  Honours,  (yea,  we  must  complain  unto  God,  and  to 
all  his  obedient  creatures,)  that  that  conjured  enemie  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  cruell  murtherer  of  our  dear  brethren  most  falsly 
styled  Archbishop  of  Saint  Andrews,  is  reponed  and  restored, 
by  signature  past,  to  his  former  tyrannic  :  For  not  only  are 
his  ancient  jurisdictions  (as  they  are  termed)  of  the  whole 
Bishoprick  of  Saint  Andrews  granted  unto  him,  but  also  the 
execution  of  judgement,  confirmation  of  testaments,  and  dona- 
tion of  benefices,  as  more  amply  in  his  signature  is  expressed. 
If  this  be  not  to  cure  the  head  of  that  venomous  beast,  which 
once  within  this  Realm,  by  the  potent  hand  of  God,  was  so 
broken  downe  and  banished,  that  by  tyranny  it  could  not  have 
hurt  the  faithfull,  judge  ye.  His  ancient  jurisdiction  was,  that 
he  with  certaine  colleagues  collaterals,  might  have  damned  of 
heresie  upon  probation  as  pleased  him,  and  then  to  take  all 
that  were  suspected  of  heresie.  What  they  have  judged  to  be 
heresie  heretofore,  ye  cannot  be  ignorant  of ;  and  whether  they 
remaine  in  their  former  malice  or  not,  their  fruits  and  travels 
openly  declare.  The  danger  may  be  feared,  say  ye.  But 
what  remedie  ?  It  is  easie,  and  at  hand,  (Right  Honourable,) 
if  ye  will  not  betray  the  cause  of  God,  and  leave  your  brethren, 
who  will  never  be  more  subject  to  that  usurped  tyrannic  then 
they  will  be  to  the  Devill  himselfe.  Our  Queene  belike  is 
not  well  informed :  She  ought  not,  nor  justly  may  not  break 
the  laws  of  this  Realm ;  and  so  consequently,  she  may  not 
set  up  against  us,  without  our  consents,  that  Romane  Antichrist 
againe:  For  in  a  lawfull  and  the  most  free  Parliament  that 


1566.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  541 

ever  was  in  this  Realm  before,  was  that  odious  beast  deprived 
of  all  jurisdiction,  office  and  authority  within  the  Realm. 
Her  Majestie  at  her  first  arryvall,  and  by  divers  proclamations 
sensyne,  hath  expressly  forbidden  any  other  forme  and  face  of 
Religion,  then  that  which  she  found  publikely  established  at 
her  arryvall:  Therefore  she  may  not  bring  us  (the  greatest 
part  of  the  subjects  of  this  Realm)  back  again  to  bondage,  till 
that  as  lawfuU  and  free  a  Parliament  as  justly  damned  that 
Antichrist  and  his  usurped  tyranny,  hath  given  decision  betwixt 
us  and  him.  If  hereof,  and  of  other  things  which  no  lesse  con- 
cerne  your  selves  then  us,  ye  plainly  and  boldly  admonish  our 
Soveraigne,  and  without  tumult  only  crave  justice,  the  tyrants 
dare  no  more  be  seen  in  lawfull  judgment,  then  dare  the  owles 
in  day  light.  Weigh  this  matter  as  it  is,  and  ye  will  finde  it 
more  weighty  then  it  appeareth  to  many.  Farther  at  this 
present  we  complain  not,  but  humbly  crave  of  your  Honours  a 
reasonable  answer  what  ye  will  doe,  in  case  such  tyrants  and 
devouring  wolves  begin  to  invade  the  flocke  of  Jesus  Christ 
within  this  Realm,  under  what  title  soever  it  be  :  For  this  we 
boldly  professe,  That  we  will  never  acknowledge  such  either 
pastors  to  our  soules,  or  yet  judges  to  our  causes.  And  if  [that], 
for  denyall  thereof,  we  suiter  either  in  body  or  in  goods,  we 
doubt  not  but  we  have  not  only  a  Judge  to  punish  them  that 
unjustly  trouble  us,  but  also  an  Advocate  and  strong  Champion 
in  Heaven  to  recompense  them,  who  for  his  name's  sake  suffer 
persecution  :  Whose  Holy  Spirit  rule  your  hearts  in  his  true  fear 
to  the  end. 

"  Given  in  the  Generall  Assembly  and  third  Session  thereof, 
at  Edinburgh,  the  27.  of  December,  1566." 

Besides  this  Supplication  of  the  Assembly  to  the  Nobility 
penned  (as  appeareth  by  the  style)  by  John  Knox,  a  Letter 
was  written  by  John  Knox  in  particular  to  the  Professors,  to 
advertise  them   of  the  danger  of  this   commission  or  power 


John  Knox 
his  Letter 
to  the 
Professors, 


542  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

granted    to  tlie  said  bastard,   Bishop  of  Saint  Andrews,  the 
tenor  whereof  doth  follow. 

"  The  Lord  cometh,  and  shall  not  tarrie  ;  Blessed  shall  he 
be  whom  he  shall finde fighting  against  impietie. 
"  To  deplore  the  miseries  of  these  our  most  wicked  dayes 
(Beloved  Brethren)  can  neither  greatly  profit  us,  neither  yet 
relieve  us  of  our  present  calamities ;  and  yet  utterly  to  keep 
silence,  cannot  lack  the  suspicion  of  apostacie,  and  plain  defec- 
tion from  God,  and  from  his  truth,  once  by  us  jDublikely  pro- 
fessed. For  now  are  matters  (that  in  years  bypast  have  been 
denyed)  so  far  discovered,  that  he  who  seeth  not  the  plaine 
subversion  of  all  true  Religion  within  this  Realm  to  be  con- 
cluded, and  decreed  in  the  hearts  of  some,  must  either  confesse 
himselfe  blinde,  or  else  an  enemie  to  the  Religion  which  we 
professe :  For  besides  the  open  erecting  of  Idolatry  in  divers 
parts  of  this  Realme,  and  besides  the  extreame  povertie  wherein 
our  Ministers  are  brought,  (by  reason  that  idle  bellies  are  fed 
upon  that  which  justly  appertaineth  to  such  as  truely  preach 
Jesus  Christ,  and  rightly  and  by  order  minister  his  blessed 
Sacraments,)  that  cruell  murtherer  of  our  brethren,  falsly  called 
Archbishop  of  Saint  Andrews,  most  unjustly,  and  against  all 
law,  hath  presumed  to  his  former  tyrannic,  as  a  signature  past 
for  his  restitution  to  his  ancient  jurisdiction  (as  it  is  termed) 
more  fully  doth  proport.  What  end  may  be  looked  for  of  such 
beginnings,  the  halfe  blinde  may  see,  as  we  suppose.  And  yet, 
we  have  heard,  that  a  certaine  summe  of  money  and  victuals 
should  be  assigned  by  the  Queen's  Majestie  for  sustentation  of 
our  Ministrie.  But  how  that  any  such  assignation,  or  any  pro- 
mise made  thereof,  can  stand  in  any  stable  assurance,  when  that 
Roman  Antichrist  (by  just  laws  once  banished  from  this 
Realme)  shall  be  intrused  above  us,  we  can  no  wise  understand. 
Yea,  farther,  we  cannot  see  what  assurance  any  within  this 
Realme  that  have  professed  the  Lord  Jesus  can  have  of  life  or 


1566.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  54*3 

inheritance,  if  the  head  of  that  odious  beast  be  cured  amongst 
us.  And  therefore  we  yet  again,  in  the  bowels  of  Christ  Jesus, 
crave  of  you  to  look  into  this  matter,  and  to  advertise  us  again, 
with  reasonable  expedition  of  your  judgements,  that  in  the 
feare  of  God,  and  with  unitie  of  minds,  we  may  proceed  to 
crave  justice,  and  oppone  our  selves  to  such  tyrannie,  as  most 
unjustly  is  intended  against  us  :  For,  if  we  think  not  that  this 
last  erecting  of  that  wicked  man,  is  the  very  setting  up  againe 
of  that  Romane  Antichrist  within  this  Realme,  we  are  deprived 
of  all  right  judgement.  And  what  is  that  else,  but  to  separate 
us  and  our  posteritie  from  God  ;  yea,  and  to  cut  our  selves  from 
the  freedome  of  this  Realme.  We  desire  therefore  that  the 
wisest  amongst  you  may  consider  the  weight  of  this  cause, 
which  long  hath  been  neglected,  partly  by  our  slouth,  and 
partly  by  believing  faire  promises,  by  which  to  this  hour  we 
have  been  deceived.  And  therefore  we  ought  to  be  the  more 
vigilant  and  circumspect,  especially  seeing  a  Parliament  is  pro- 
claimed. 

"  "We  have  sent  to  you  the  forme  of  a  Supplication  and 
Articles,  which  we  would  have  presented  to  the  Queen's 
Majestic.  If  it  please  you,  we  would  ye  should  approve  it  by 
your  subscriptions  ;  or  if  you  would  alter  it,  we  desire  you  so  to 
do,  and  we  shall  allow  whatsoever  you  shall  propound,  not  re- 
pugnant to  God.  If  it  shall  be  thought  expedient  that  Com- 
missioners of  Countries  shall  conveene,  to  reason  upon  the  most 
weighty  matters  that  now  occurr,  the  time  and  place  being 
appointed  by  you,  and  due  advertisement  being  given  to  us,  by 
God's  grace,  there  shall  no  fault  be  found  in  us  ;  but  as  from  the 
beginning  we  have  neither  spared  substance  nor  life,  so  minde 
we  not  to  faint  unto  the  end,  to  maintaine  the  same,  so  long 
as  we  can  finde  the  concurrence  of  brethren  ;  of  whom  (as  God 
forbid)  if  we  be  destitute,  yet  are  we  determined  never  to  be 
subject  to  that  Roman  Antichrist,  neither  yet  to  his  usurj)ed 
tyrannie.     But  when  we  can  doe  no  furtlicr  to  suppresse  tliat 


544  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

odious  beast,  we  minde  to  seale  with  our  blood  to  our  posteritie, 
that  the  bright  knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ  hath  banished  that 
man  of  sinne,  and  his  venomous  doctrine,  from  our  hearts  and 
consciences.  Let  this  our  Letter  and  request  beare  witnesse 
before  God,  before  his  angels,  before  the  Avorld,  and  before  our 
own  consciences,  that  we  require  you  that  have  professed  the 
Lord  Jesus  within  this  Realme,  as  well  Nobilitie,  as  Gentlemen, 
Burgesses,  and  Commons,  to  deliberate  upon  the  estate  of 
things  present ;  and  specially  whether  that  this  usurped  tyrannie 
of  that  Romane  Antichrist  shall  be  any  longer  suffered  within 
this  Realme,  seeing  that  by  just  law  it  is  already  abolished. 
Secondly,  Whether  that  we  shall  be  bound  to  feed  idle  bellies 
upon  the  patrimonie  of  the  Kirk,  which  justly  appertaineth 
unto  Ministers.  Thirdly,  Whether  that  Idolatrie,  and  other 
abominations,  which  now  are  more  then  evident,  shall  any 
longer  by  us  be  maintained  and  defended.  Answer  us  as  ye 
will  answer  to  God,  in  whose  feare  we  send  these  letters  unto 
you,  lest  that  our  silence  should  be  counted  for  consent  unto 
such  impietie.  God  take  from  our  hearts  the  blinde  love  of 
our  selves,  and  all  ungodly  feare.  Amen.  Let  us  know  your 
mindes  with  expedition."] 

Notwithstanding  the  domestick  troubles  that  the  Church  of 
God  had  in  Scotland  in  this  turbulent  time  within  the  king- 
dome,  yet  they  were  not  unmindfull  of  the  affliction  of  Jacob 
every  where  upon  the  face  of  the  earth ;  namely,  they  had 
before  their  eyes  the  state  and  condition  of  the  Church  of  God 
in  England  :  Witnesse  this  Letter  from  the  Generall  Assembly 
to  the  Rulers  of  the  Church  of  God  in  England  ;  [wherein  they 
intreat  them  to  deal  gently  with  the  preachers  their  brethren 
about  the  Surplice  and  other  apparell.  John  Knox  formed  the 
Letter  in  name  of  the  Assembly,  as  follows.^] 

'  The  words  incloseJ  within  brackets  are  adderl  in  the  Edinburgh  edit.  1644. 


1566.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  545 

"  The  Superintendents,  with  other  Ministers  and  Commis- 
sioners OF  the  Church  of  God  in  the  Kinqdome  of 
Scotland,  to  their  Brethren,  the  Bishops  and  Pas- 
tours  OF  God's  Church  in  England,  who  profess  with 
us  IN  Scotland  the  truth  of  Jesus  Christ. 
"  By  word  and  letters  it  is  come  to  our  knowledge,  (Reve- 
rend Bretliren,  Pastors  of  God's  word  in  tlie  Church  of  England,) 
that  divers  of  our  Brethren  (of  whom  some  be  of  the  most 
learned  in  England,)  are  deprived  from  all  Ecclesiasticall  func- 
tion, namely,  are  forbidden  to  preach,  and  so  by  you  are  stop- 
ped to  promote  the  Kingdom  of  God,  because  they  have  a 
scruple  of  conscience  to  use  at  the  command  of  Authority  such 
garments  as  idolaters  in  time  of  greatest  darknesse,  did  use  in 
their  superstitious  and  idolatrous  service  ;  v/hich  report  cannot 
but  be  very  grievous  to  our  hearts,  considering  the  sentence  of 
the  Apostle,  '  If  ye  bite  and  devour  one  another,  take  heed 
ye  be  not  consumed  'one  of  another.'  We  intend  not  at  this 
present  to  enter  into  the  question,  which  we  hear  is  agitated 
and  handled  with  greater  vehemency  by  either  partie,  then 
well  liketh  us,  to  wit,  Whether  such  Apparell  be  accounted 
amongst  things  indifferent  or  not  ;  wherefore,  (through  the 
bowels  of  Jesus  Christ,)  we  crave  that  Christian  charitie  may 
so  fan-  prevaile  with  you,  who  are  the  pastors  and  guides  of 
Christ's  flock  in  England,  that  ye  doe  one  to  another,  as  ye  de- 
sire others  to  do  to  you.  You  cannot  be  ignorant  what  ten- 
dernesse  is  in  a  scrupulous  conscience,  and  all  that  have  know- 
ledge are  not  alike  perswaded ;  the  consciences  of  some  of  you 
stirres  not,  with  the  wearing  of  such  things  ;  on  the  other  side, 
many  thousands  (both  godly  and  learned)  are  otherwayes 
perswaded,  whose  consciences  are  continually  strucken  with 
these  sentences,  '  What  hath  Christ  to  doe  with  Beliall  ?'  '  What 
fellowship  is  there  betwixt  light  and  darknesse  ?'  If  sui*j3lice, 
corner-cap,  and  tippet,  have  been  the  badges  of  idolaters  in  the 
vol.  ii.  2  m 


546  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

very  act  of  their  idolatry,  what  hath  the  preachers  of  Christian 
libertie,  and  the  rebukers  of  superstition  to  do  with  the  dregs 
of  that  Romish  Beast  ?  Yea,  what  is  he  that  ought  not  to  fear, 
eitlicr  to  take  in  his  hand,  or  on  his  forehead,  the  prints  and 
mark  of  that  odious  Beast  ?  The  brethren  that  refuse  such 
unprofitable  apparell,  do  neither  condemn  nor  molest  you  who 
use  such  trifles.  On  the  other  side,  if  ye  that  use  these  things 
Avill  do  the  like  to  your  brethren,  we  doubt  not  but  therein 
you  shall  please  God,  and  comfort  the  hearts  of  many,  which 
are  wounded  to  see  extremitie  used  against  these  godly 
brethren.  Humane  arguments  or  coloured  rhetorick,  we  use 
none  to  perswade  you,  only  in  charity  we  desire  you  to  mind 
the  sentence  of  Peter,  '  Feed  the  flock  of  Christ  which  is  com- 
mitted to  your  charge,  caring  for  it,  not  by  constraint,  but 
willingly ;  not  being  as  lords  of  God's  heritages,  but  being  ex- 
amples to  the  flock.'  We  further  desire  jou  to  meditate  upon 
that  sentence  of  Paul,  '  Give  no  offence,  neither  to  Jews,  nor 
Gentiles,  nor  to  the  church  of  God.'  In  what  condition  you 
and  we  both  travell,  at  least  are  bound  to  travell  for  the  pro- 
moting of  Christ's  kingdom,  you  are  not  ignorant ;  therefore 
we  are  the  more  bold  to  exhort  you  to  deal  more  wisely,  then 
to  trouble  the  godly  for  such  vanities;  for  all  things  which 
seem  lawfull,  edifie  not.  If  Authoiity  urge  you  farther  than 
your  consciences  can  bear,  we  pray  you  remember,  that  the  Mi- 
nisters of  the  Church  are  called  the  '  Light  of  the  world,"  and 
'  Salt  of  the  earth  ;'  all  civill  authority  hath  not  alwayes  the 
light  of  God  shining  before  their  eyes,  in  statutes  and  com- 
mands, for  their  affections  savour  too  much  of  the  earth  and 
worldly  wisdom :  therefore  we  tell  you,  that  ye  ought  to  op- 
pose your  selves  boldly,  not  only  to  all  power  that  dare  extoll 
it  self  against  God,  but  also  against  all  such  as  dare  burthen,  the 
consciences  of  the  faithfull,  farther  than  God  chargeth  them 
in  his  own  Avord.  But  we  hope  you  will  excuse  our  freedom 
in  that  we  have  entered  in  reasoning  farther  than  we  intended 


lofifi.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  547 

in  the  beginning-.  Now,  again  we  return  to  our  former  request, 
wliich  is,  That  the  brethren  among  you,  wlio  refuse  the  Romish 
rags,  may  find  of  you,  Avho  use  and  urge  them,  such  favour  as 
our  Head  and  Master  commandeth  each  one  of  his  members  to 
shew  to  another,  which  Ave  look  to  receive  of  your  courtesie, 
not  only  because  you  will  not  offend  God  in  troubling  your 
brethren  for  such  vain  trifles,  but  also  because  you  will  not 
refuse  the  earnest  request  of  us  your  Brethren,  and  fellow 
Ministers  ;  in  whom,  although  there  appear  no  worldly  pomp, 
yet  we  are  assured,  you  will  esteem  us  as  God's  servants, 
travelling  to  set  forth  his  glory  against  the  Roman  Anti- 
christ. The  dayes  are  evill,  iniquitie  aboundeth,  and  charitie 
(alas)  waxeth  cold  ;  wherefore  we  ought  to  walk  diligently, 
for  the  hour  is  uncertain  when  the  Lord  shall  come,  before 
whom  we  must  all  give  an  account  of  our  administration. 
In  conclusion,  yet  once  more  we  desire  you  to  be  favourable 
one  to  another ;  the  Lord  Jesus  rule  your  hearts  in  his  fear 
unto  the  end,  and  give  to  you  and  us  victorie  over  that 
conjured  enemy  of  true  Religion,  (the  Pope,)  whose  wounded 
head  Sathan  by  all  means  strives  to  cure  again ;  but  to  de- 
struction shall  he  go,  and  all  his  maintainors,  by  the  power  of 
our  Lord  Jesus,  to  whose  mighty  protection  we  commit  you. 
"  From  our  Generall  Assembly,  Decemb.  27.  1566." 

[When  John  Knox,  the  penner  of  this  letter  wrote  thus  of 
the  superstitious  Apparell  as  a  supplicant  for  the  afflicted 
Brethren,  what  would  he  have  written,  think  you,  in  another 
case.  It  is  to  be  observed,  that  at  the  same  time  our  worthy 
Brethren  in  England  made  their  state  known  to  Master  Beza, 
who,  upon  their  complaint,  wrote  a  letter  in  their  behalf  at  the 
same  time  to  Doctor  Grindall,  Bishop  of  London,  Avherein  he 
findeth  fault  with  the  manner  of  Apparrell  appointed  for  Mi- 
nisters with  kneeling  at  the  communion,  and  all  significant 
ceremonies  ;  which  letter  is   the   eight  in   order,    among  his 


548  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V, 

Epistles.  But  obtaining  no  favour,  lie  wrote  the  year  following, 
(wliicli  was  in  Anno  1567,)  another  letter  to  this  purpose, 
which  is  the  twelfth  in  order  amongst  his  Epistles,  wherein  he 
giveth  his  beloved  brethren  this  advice  ;  that  rather  then  they 
should  give  their  consents  to  the  order  of  ordaining  their  Mi- 
nisters to  use  the  cope  and  surplice,  and  to  the  manner  of  ex- 
communication that  was  used  in  the  Church  of  England,  that 
they  should  give  place  to  manifest  violence,  and  live  as  privat 
men.  It  is  also  to  be  observed,  that  the  sincerer  sort  of  the 
Ministrie  in  England  had  not  yet  assaulted  the  jurisdiction 
and  Church  government,  (which  they  did  not  till  the  year 
1572,  at  which  time  they  published  their  first  and  second  Ad- 
monition to  the  Parliament,)  but  only  had  excepted  against 
superstitious  apparell,  and  some  other  faults  in  the  Service 
Boolce.  By  the  former  Assembly,  the  Reader  of  Bathgate  was 
censured  for  baptizing  of  infants,  and  solemnizing  of  marriage, 
he  being  but  a  simple  Reader,  and  for  taking  silver  for  the  same 
from  such  as  were  without  the  parish.  Hear  you  may  see 
that  they  acknowledge  not  Reading  Ministers,  that  is,  that 

As  she  had  any  administer  the  Sacraments,  but  he  that  was  able  to  preach 
lately  gra-  , 

tificdthe     the  word.  J  ^ 

tants^by  ^^  *^^  same  time,  the  Bishop  of  Saint  Andrews,  by  means 

granting     of  the  Earl  Bothwell,  procured  a  writinQ-  from  the  Queen's  Ma- 

theirPeti-  /    .        ,        ,.  .  .... 

tion,  so  at  jesty,  to  be  obeyed  within  the  diocese  of  his  jurisdiction,  in  all 
she  yeeids  such  causcs  as  before  in  time  of  Popery  were  used  in  the  Con- 
unto  the  gistoiy,  and  therefore  to  discharge  the  new  Commissioners ; 
their  de-  and  for  the  same  purpose  came  to  Edinburgh  iu  January, 
that  she  '  having  a  company  of  one  hundred  horses,  or  more,  intending 
stc?p*cd\y  ^^  ^^^^  possession,  according  to  his  gift  lately  obtained.  The 
neithov  of    Provest  being  advertised  thereof  by  the  Earl  of  Mun-ay,  they 

them  in  her  •  i  i  ^  ^     i 

designe  of  sent  to  the  Bisliop  three  or  lour  of  the  Councell,  desiring  him 
and^new^^   to  desist  fi'om  the  said  matter,  for  fear  of  trouble  and  sedition 

love. 

^  The  above  paragraph  is  not  contain-      added  to  the  Edinburgh  republication 
ed  in  the  London  edition  1644,  Jiut  was       in  that  year. 


1566-7.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  549 

that  niiglit  rise  thereupon  ;  whereby  he  was  perswacled  to  de- 
sist at  that  time. 

Soon  after,  the  Queen  came  to  Edinburgh,  where  she  re- 
mained a  few  days.  In  the  moneth  of  January  she  was  in- 
formed that  the  King-  was  recovered  of  the  poyson  given  him 
at  Sterlin,  and  therefore  she  past  to  Glasgow  to  visit  him, 
and  there  tarried  with  him  six  days,  using  him  wonderfully 
kindely,  with  many  gracious  and  good  words ;  and  likewise 
his  father,  the  Earl  of  Lenox,  insomuch  that  all  men  marvelled 
whereto  it  should  turn,  considering  the  great  contempt  and 
drynesse  that  had  been  before  so  long  together.  The  Queen, 
notwithstanding  all  the  contempt  that  was  given  him,  with  a 
known  design  to  take  away  his  life,  yet  by  her  sweet  words 
gains  so  far  upon  the  uxorious  husband,  and  his  facile  father, 
that  he  went  in  company  with  her  to  Edinburgh,  where  she 
had  caused  to  lodge  him  at  the  Church  of  Field,^  in  a  lodging, 
lately  bought  by  Master  James  Balfour,  Clerk  Register,  truely 
very  unmeet  for  a  King.  The  Queen  resorted  often  to  visit 
him,  and  lay  in  the  house  two  nights  by  him,  (although  her 
lodging  was  in  the  Palace  of  Halyrud-house.)  Every  man 
marvelled  at  this  reconciliation  and  sudden  change.  The 
ninth  of  Februaiy,  the  King  was  murthered,  and  the  house 
where  he  lay  burned  with  j)owder,  about  twelve  of  the  clock 
in  the  night :  his  body  was  cast  forth  in  a  yard,  without  the 
town  wall,  adjoining  close  by.  There  was  a  servant  likewise 
murthered  beside  him,  who  had  been  also  in  the  chamber  with 
him.  The  people  ran  to  behold  this  spectacle  ;  and  wondering 
thereat  some  judged  one  thing,  some  another. 

Shortly  thereafter,  Bothwell  came  from  the  Abbey  with  a 
company  of  men  of  war,  and  caused  the  body  of  the  King  to 
be  carryed  to  the  next  house  ;  where,  after  a  little,  the  chirur- 
gions  being  convened  at  the  Queen's  command  to  view  and 
consider  the  manner  of  his  death ;   most  part   gave  out,  to 

'  Kirk  of  Field  :  see  tliis  volume,  page  lol,  note  1. 


550  THE  HISTORY  UF  Book  V. 

please  the  Queen,  that  he  was  blown  in  the  ayre,  albeit  he 
had  no  mark  of  fire  ;  and  truly  he  was  strangled.  Soon  after,^ 
he  was  carryed  to  the  Abbey,  and  there  buryed. 

[When  many  of  the  common  people  had  gazed  long  upon  the 
King's  corpse,  the  Queen  caused  it  to  be  brought  down  to  the 
Pallace  by  some  pioners.  She  beheld  the  corpse  without  any 
outward  shew  or  signe  of  joy  or  sorrow.  When  the  Lords  had 
concluded  amongst  themselves  that  he  should  be  honourablie 
buried,  the  Queen  caused  his  corpse  to  be  carried  by  some 
pioners  in  the  night  without  solemnitie,  and  to  be  layed  beside 
the  sepulchre  of  David  Rizio.  If  there  had  been  any  solemn 
buriall,  Buchanan  had  wanted  wit  to  relate  otherwise,  seeing 
there  would  have  been  so  many  witnesses  to  testifie  the  con- 
trair.  Therefore  the  contriver  of  the  late  Historic  of  Queen 
Marie  2  wanted  policie  here  to  convoy  a  lee. 

The  Queen,  according  to  the  ancient  custom  should  have 
keepcd  herself  40.  days  within,  and  the  doores  and  windowes 
should  have  been  closed  in  token  of  mourning ;  but  the  win- 
dowes were  opened,  to  let  in  light,  the  fourth  day.  Before  the 
twelfth  day,  she  went  out  to  Seatoun,  Bothwell  never  parting 
from  her  side.  There  she  went  out  to  the  fields  to  behold 
games  and  pastimes.  The  King's  armour,  horse,  and  household 
stufle,  were  bestowed  upon  the  murtherers.  A  certain  taylour, 
when  he  was  to  reforme  the  King's  apparel  to  Bothwell,  said 
jestingly.  He  acknowledged  here  the  custom  of  the  country, 
by  which  the  clothes  of  the  dead  fall  to  the  hangman.]^ 

*  These  words,  "  Soon  after,  he  was  Buchanan's  History  was  first  published 

carryed  to  the  Abbey,  and  there  bury-  in  the  year  1582;  and  the  reference  to 

ed,"  are  omitted  in  the  4to  edit.  1G44,  the  more  recent  work,  may  have  been 

and  the  two  following  paragraphs,  en-  to  "  The  Historie  of  the  Life  and  Death 

closed  within  brackets,  are  interpolated.  of  Mary  Stuart,  Queene  of  Scotland." 

Both  of  these  paragraphs  are  given  ver-  London  1636,  12mo,  and  dedicated  to 

batim  in  Calderwood's  History,  vol.  ii.  Charles  the  First,  by  "  W.  Vdall;"  as 

pp.  346,  347.  some  remarks  on  George  Buclianau's 

-  This  pai-agraph  is  an  evident  iiitei--  writings  occur  at  page  55. 

polation,  like   some  of  these  by  David  ^  ggp  ^^^[^  page,  note  1 . 
Buchanan  in  the  forojer  Books.    George 


1566-7.  THE  RPJFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  551 

This  tragicall  end  had  Hcniy  Steward,  after  he  had  been 
King  eighteen  moneths.  A  Prince  of  great  linage,  both  by 
mother  and  father :  He  was  of  a  comely  stature,  and  none 
was  like  unto  him  within  this  island ;  he  died  under  the  age 
of  one  and  twenty  years  ;  prompt  and  ready  for  all  games  and 
sports  ;  much  given  to  hawking  and  hunting,  and  running  of 
horses,  and  likewise  to  playing  on  the  lute,  and  also  to  Venus 
chamber  :  He  was  liberall  enough  :  He  could  write  and  dic- 
tate well ;  but  he  was  somewhat  given  to  wine,  and  much  feed- 
ing, and  likewise  to  inconstancy ;  and  proud  beyond  measure, 
and  therefore  contemned  all  others :  He  had  learned  to  dis- 
semble well  enough,  being  from  his  youth  misled  up  in  Popery. 
Thus,  within  two  years  after  his  arriving  in  this  Realm,  he 
was  highly  by  the  Queen  alone  extolled  ;  and,  finally,  had  this 
in  fortunate  end  by  her  procurement  and  consent.  To  lay  all 
other  proofs  aside,  her  marriage  with  Both  well,  who  was  the 
main  executioner  of  the  King,  notwithstanding  all  the  advices 
and  counsells  that  the  King  of  France,  and  the  Queen  of 
England,  did  earnestly  and  carefully  give  her,  as  other  friends 
did  likewise,  witness  anent  their  guilt.  Those  that  laid  hands 
on  the  King  to  kill  him,  by  BothweH's  direction,  was  Sir 
James  Balfour,  Gilbert  Balfour,  Diivid  Chalmers,  black  John 
Spense,  Francis,  Sebastien,  Jo.  de  Bourdeau,  and  Joseph,  the 
brother  of  David  Bizio  :  These  last  four  were  the  Queen's 
domesticks,  and  strangers.  The  reason  why  the  King's  death 
was  so  hastened,  because  the  affection  or  passion  of  the  Earl 
Both  well  could  not  bear  so  long  a  delay,  as  the  procurement  of 
a  bill  of  divorce  required,  although  the  Romish  clergie  offered 
their  service  willingly  to  the  business,  namely,  Bishop  Hamil- 
ton, and  so  he  came  great  again  at  Court  ;  and  he  for  the  ad- 
vancement of  the  business,  did  good  offices  to  increase  the 
hatred  betwixt  the  King  and  Queen  ;  yea,  some  that  had  been 
the  chief  instraments  of  the  marriage  of  the  King  and  Queen, 
offered  the  service  for  the  divorce,  seeing  how  the  Queen's  in- 


552  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V 

clination  lay :  So  unhappy  are  Princes,  that  men,  for  tlieir 
own  ends,  further  them  in  all  their  inclinations  and  under- 
takings, be  they  never  so  bad  or  destructive  to  themselves. 

The  Earl  of  Lenox,  in  the  mean  time,  wrote  to  the  Queen, 
to  cause  punish  Bothwell,  with  his  other  complices,  for  mur- 
thering  the  King.  The  Queen,  not  daring  openly  to  reject  the 
Earl  of  Lenox  his  solicitation,  did  appoint  a  day  for  the  triall 
of  Bothwell,  by  an  assize  •}  the  members  whereof  was  the  Earl 
of  Cathnes,  President,  the  Earl  of  Cassels,  (who  at  the  first 
refused,  but  thereafter,  being  threatened  to  be  put  in  prison, 
and  under  the  pain  of  treason,  was  present  by  the  Queen's 
command,)  John  Hamilton,  Commendator  of  Aberbrothok, 
Lord  Rosse,  Lord  Semple,  Lord  Boyd,  Lord  Hereis,  Lord 
Olyphant ;  the  Master  of  Forbes,  the  Lairds  of  Lochinvar, 
Langton,  Carabusnetham,^  Barnbougel,  and  Boyne :  They,  to 
please  the  Queen,  and  for  fear,  did  pronounce  Bothwell  not 
guilty,  notwithstanding  the  manifest  evidences  of  the  cruell 
fact  committed  by  Bothwell,  who,  before  the  tryall,  did  make 
himself  strong  by  divers  means  ;  namely,  by  the  possession  of 
the  Castle  of  Edinburgh,  so  that  the  accusers  durst  not  appear, 
not  being  strong  enough.  The  Earl  of  Marr  did  retire  to 
Sterlin,  and  had  committed  to  his  charge  the  young  Prince. 
All  this  was  done  in  February. 

In  April,  Bothwell  called  together  sundry  of  the  Lords,  who 
had  come  to  Edinburgh,  to  a  meeting  that  was  there ;  and 
having  gained  some  before,  made  them  all,  what  by  fear,  what 
by  fair  promises,  first  of  their  private  state,  and  then  of  ad- 
vancing the  Papist's  Religion,  to  consent  by  their  subscrip- 
tions to  the  marriage  with  the  Queen.     Then  the  Queen  goes 

1  The  names  and  designations  of  the  -  In  the  folio  edit.  1644,  "  Cambusi- 

assize  on   Bothwell's  trial,  before  the  dentham;"  in  the  4to  edit.,  "  Cambus- 

Court  of  Justiciary  at  Edinburgh,  12th  liinneth."     The  i>erson  referred  to  was 

April  1567,  are  giyen  by  Keith,  with  the  James  Somerville  of  Cambusnethen  in 

proceedings,  extracted  from  the  Books  Lanarkshire, 
of  Adjournal.  (Hist.  voL  ii.  pp.  541-548.) 


1567.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  553 

to  Sterlin,  to  see  her  son:  Botliwell  makes  a  shew  as  if  he 
were  going  to  the  Borders  to  snppresse  robbers,  and  so  he 
raiseth  some  men  of  war  ;  which,  when  he  had  done,  he  turneth 
towards  tlic  way  to  Sterlin,  where  he  meets  the  Queen,  accord- 
ing to  appointment  betwixt  them,  and  carrieth  her  to  Dumbar, 
as  it  had  been  by  force,  although  every  one  knew  it  was  with 
the  Queen's  liking.  The  prime  Nobility  convened  at  Sterlin, 
and  from  thence  sent  to  her,  to  know  whether  or  not  she  was 
taken  against  her  will :  She  answered,  That  it  was  true  she 
was  taken  against  her  will,  but  since  her  taking,  she  had 
no  occasion  to  complain ;  yea,  the  courteous  entertainment 
she  had,  made  her  forget  and  forgive  all  former  oifences. 
These  expressions  were  used  by  way  of  preface  to  the  pardon, 
which  was  granted  immediately  thereafter  to  Bothwell ;  for,  by 
Letters  Patents,  he  was  pardoned  by  the  Queen,  for  laying 
violently  hands  upon  her  Majestie,  and  for  all  other  crimes. 
So  by  this,  &c.,^  the  murther  of  the  King  was  pardoned. 
During  the  Queen's  abode  in  Dumbar,  there  was  letters  of 
divorce  demanded  and  granted  unto  Bothwell  from  his  Lady, 
(who  afterward  was  married  to  the  Earl  Sutherland,)  she  was 
sister  to  the  Earl  of  Huntley.  The  ground  of  divorce  was, 
the  pai-ties  being  Avithin  the  degrees  prohibited,  could  not  be 
lawfully  joyned :  Next,  because  Bothwell  was  an  adulterer, 
the  marriage  was  voyd.  The  bill  of  divorce  was  granted  by 
the  Papisticall  Court  of  the  Archbishop  of  Saint  Androis. 
And  here  mark  how  they  juggle  in  sacred  things ;  for  when 
it  pleaseth  them,  they  untie  the  bond  of  marriage,  as  now* 
and  as  we  have  seen  in  the  First  Book  of  this  History.  Wlien 
the  Queen  fell  in  distaste  of  the  late  King  her  husband,  it 
was  proposed  unto  her  to  have  divorce  upon  the  same  ground 
from  the  King  :  To  which,  first  ear  was  given,  but  after  second 

1  "  So  by  tills,  &c."  This  sentence  is  illegible.  We  might  substitute,  for  in- 
so  prmted  in  both  edit.  1644,  probably  stance,  "  So  by  this  procedure,  the  mur- 
owing  to  some  word  in  the  MS.  being      thcr  of  the  Kmg  was  pardoned." 


554  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

tlioiiglits,  a  bill  of  divorce  was  too  tedious,  (as  we  have  now 
said,)  and  could  not  be  stayed  for,  therefore  the  King  must  be 
disi)atched. 

The  Queen,  when  Bothwell  had  obtained  by  the  Archbishop 
a  letter  of  divorce  from  his  lawfull  wife,  sent  a  letter  signed 
with  her  own  hand  to  Master  John  Craig,  minister  of  Edin- 
burgh, commanding  him  to  publish  the  band  of  matrimony 
betwixt  her  and  Bothwell.  Master  John  Craig,  the  next  ser- 
mon day  thereafter,  declared  in  full  congregation,  that  he  had 
received  such  a  command,  but  in  conscience  he  could  not  obey 
it ;  the  marriage  was  altogether  unlawfuU ;  and  of  that  he 
would  declare  the  reasons  to  the  parties,  if  he  had  audience  of 
them,  otherwise  he  would  make  known  his  just  reasons  in  the 
hearing  of  the  people.  Immediately  thereafter,  Bothwell  sends 
for  Master  Craig  to  the  Councell,  where  Master  Craig  told, 
first.  That  by  an  Act  of  the  Assembly,  it  was  forbidden  to 
allow  the  marriage  of  any  divorced  for  adultery :  The  divorce 
of  Bothwell  from  his  lawfull  wife,  was  by  collusion,  witnesse 
the  quick  dispatch  thereof ;  for  it  was  sought  and  had  within 
ten  days,  and  his  contracting  Avith  the  Queen  instantly  there- 
after ;  then  his  rapt  of  the  Queen,  and  the  guilt  of  the  King's 
death,  which  was  confirmed  by  this  marriage  :  withall,  he  de- 
sired the  Lords  to  stop  the  Queen  i  from  that  infamous  mar- 

^  It  is  impossible  to  vindicate  tlie  alliance  witli  a  man  wbo  was  then  mar- 
Queen's  conduct  in  "  this  infixmous  mar-  ried.  To  accomiilish  this,  BothweU 
riage,"  even  when  acquitted  of  being  in  brought  the  Queen  to  the  Castle  of 
iwy  way  accessory  to  Darnley's  mur-  Edinburgh  on  the  29th  April.  He  ob- 
der.  That  event  occurred  on  the  9th  tained  a  sentence  of  divorce  from  his 
February  1566-7.  Bothwell,  who  was  first  wife  on  the  7th  May;  his  mar- 
denounced  as  his  murderer,  submitted  riage  with  the  Queen  was  proclaimed 
to  a  mock  trial  on  the  12th  April;  on  the  12th  of  that  month;  and  having 
and  on  the  19th,  he  obtained  from  the  created  him  Duke  of  Orkney,  on  the 
Queen  in  Parliament  a  ratification  of  15th  their  marriage  was  celebrated, 
several  lands,  &c.,  as  Keeper  of  the  Thus  within  the  period  of  three  months 
Castle  of  Dunbar.  On  the  24th  of  the  all  these  events  happened.  One  month 
same  month,  the  Queen  was  way-laid,  later,  the  Queen  surrendered  on  Car- 
and  forcibly  carried  off  to  Dunbar,  berry-hill,  and  Bothwell  made  his  es- 
wliere  she  was  coerced  to  agi-ee  to  an  cape  :  they  never  met  after  that  day. 


1567.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  555 

riage.  The  Sunday  after,  he  tokl  jniblikely  to  the  people, 
what  he  had  said  to  the  Councell  ;  and  he  took  heaven  and 
earth  to  witnesse,  that  he  detested  that  scandalous  and  in- 
famous marriage  ;  and  that  he  discharged  his  conscience  unto 
the  Lords,  who  seemed  unto  him,  as  so  many  slaves,  what  by 
flattery,  what  by  silence,  to  give  way  to  that  abomination. 
Upon  this,  he  was  called  to  the  Councell  again,  and  was  re- 
proved, as  if  he  had  exceeded  the  bounds  of  his  calling. 
Wliereunto  he  answered.  That  the  bounds  of  his  commission 
was  the  word  of  God,  right  reason,  and  good  laws,  against 
which  he  had  said  nothing  ;  and  by  all  these,  offered  to  prove 
this  marriage  to  be  scandalous  and  infamous.  At  this  he  Avas 
stopped  by  Bothwell,  and  sent  from  the  Councell.  Notwith- 
standing all  this  done  and  said  by  Master  Craig,  and  the 
opposition  of  many  that  wished  well  to  the  Queen,  and  were 
jealous  of  her  honour,  the  marriage  went  on,  and  they  were 
married  the  15.  of  May.  This  makes  good  the  Latine  proverb, 
Mala  nuhunt  mense  Maio  ;  and  a  Bishop  must  bless  the  mar- 
riage :  The  good  Prelat  was  Bishop  of  Orkney :  l  If  there  be  Note. 
a  good  work  to  be  ^one,  a  Bishop  must  do  it.  Here  mark  the 
difference  betwixt  this  worthy  minister  Master  Craig,  and  this 
base  Bishop. 

The  Earl  of  Athole,  immediately  after  the  murther  of  the 

*  Adam  Bothwell  became  successor  to  General  Assembly,  25tli  December  1567 ; 
Bishop  Reid,  in  the  See  of  Orkney,  and  but  having  submitted,  and  made  a  public 
was  admitted  to  the  temporalities  of  the  confession  of  his  oflFence,  he  was  restored 
Bishopric,  14th  October  1559.  He  was  to  his  ministry.  Heexchanged  thetem- 
one  of  four  Prelates  who  joined  the  Re-  poralities  of  his  Bishopric  with  Lord 
formers.  In  1564  he  was  appointed  an  Robert  Stewart  for  the  Abbey  of  Holy- 
Extraordinary  Lord  of  Session ;  and  an  rood-House,  which  was  ratified  by  a 
Ordinary  Lord,  13th  November  1565.  charter  under  the  Great  Seal,  25th  Sej)- 
He  celebrated  the  marriage  of  Queen  tember  1569.  He  died  on  the  23d  Au- 
Mary  and  Bothwell,  but  afterwards  took  gust  1593,  in  the  sixty-seventh  year  of 
an  active  part  in  opposing  him.  He  his  age,  according  to  an  inscription 
also  officiated  at  the  baptism  of  James  which  still  exists  in  the  Abbey  Church 
the  Sixth.  His  conduct  was  viewed  with  of  Holyrood,  with  some  Latin  verses,  by 
suspicion  by  the  Kirk,  and  various  ar-  M.  H.  R.,  (Mr.  Hercules  Rollock.) 
tides  were  alleged  against  him  in  the 


556  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

King,  had  retired  Lome,  waiting-  for  the  occasion  to  revenge 
the  King's  death  :  But  seeing  this  abominable  marriage,  he 
went  to  Sterlin,  where  other  honest  Lords  with  him  had  a 
meeting,  and  made  a  bond,  to  defend  the  young  Prince  from 
the  murtherers  of  his  father ;  as  akeadj'  they  had  had  one 
plot  to  cut  him  off,  which  God  in  his  mercy  did  prevent.  The 
Kobles  that  entred  in  this  bond,  were  the  Earls  of  Argyle, 
Athole,  Morton,  Marr,  and  Glencarne  ;  the  Lords  Lindsey  and 
Boyd.  Argyle  thereafter,  seduced  by  some  fair  words,  fell  off; 
and  Boyd  became  a  great  factionaiy  for  Bothwell  in  all  things. 
The  Queen,  soon  after  the  marriage,  was  advised  to  send 
abroad  an  Ambassadour  to  acquaint  her  forraigne  friends  and 
kindred  ;  and  this  must  be  a  Bishop  :  It  is  pity  that  any  good 
work  should  be  done  without  a  Bishop :  was  not  this  a  wor- 
thy employment  for  a  pastor  in  God's  Church.i 

Bothwell  seeing  the  bond  made  at  Sterlin,  causeth  the 
Queen  to  write  to  sundry  of  the  Nobility.  Divers  repaired 
unto  her,  where  they  found  a  bond  tendred  unto  them,  by 
which  they  were  to  bind  themselves  to  defend  the  Queen  and 
Bothv/ell.  Some  that  were  cornipt,  did  willingly  subscribe ; 
others  for  fear  did  the  same  :  and  there  was  not  one  that  went 
to  Court  that  did  refuse,  but  the  Earl  of  Murray ;  who  refusing 
absolutely  to  enter  into  a  bond  with  Bothwell,  said.  It  was  not 
the  part  of  a  good  subject ;  yet  since  he  had  been  made  friends 
with  him  some  time  before,  he  would  keep  his  promise  unto 
the  Queen ;  and  to  enter  into  a  bond  with  the  Queen,  it  was 
needlesse  and  unfit,  since  he  was  to  obey  her  in  all  lawfuU  and 
just  things.  L'pon  this,  he  gat  leave,  although  with  great  diffi- 
culty, to  go  into  France. 

The  Queen   receives   now  Hamilton  Archbishop   of  Saint 

1  The  Bisbop  here  referred  to,  -was  of  France,  the  Cardhaal  of  Lorraine  and 

William  Chlshokn,  Bishop  of  Lunblane.  others,  in  May  1567,   are  printed  by 

His  instructions  concerning  the  Queen's  Keith.     (History,  vol.  ii.  p.  592.)     But 

motives  to  take  her  husband,  the  Duke  Calderwood  asserts  they  "  are  forged, 

of  Orkney,  to  be  declared  to  the  King  and  full  of  lies." 


1507.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  557 

Androis  into  favour  since  these  changes ;  who  was  no  less  a 
faitlifull  Councellor  to  her,  then  he  was  a  good  pastor  of 
Christ's  flock  ;  tliat  is,  he  betrayed  lier,  and  disobeyed  God. 
With  this  a  Proclamation  comes  out  in  favour  of  the  poor 
Protestants,  whereby  tlie  Queen  declares,  That  she  will  keep 
and  confirm  all  that  she  had  promised  at  her  arrivall  into  Scot- 
land :  This  was  done  to  stop  the  people's  mouthes  ;  but  all  in 
vain,  for  the  people  were  universally  against  the  abomination 
of  the  Court. 

Within  few  dayes,  Both  well  and  the  Queen  were  raising  men, 
under  pretext   to  go  to  the  Borders  to  represse  the  robbers 
there  ;  but  in  eifect  to  go  to  Sterlin,  to  have  the  Prince  in 
their  custody,   that  they  might  dispose  of  him   according  to 
their   mind.     Then  a  new  Proclamation  came  out.  That  the 
Queen  hereafter  would  rule  only  by  the  advice  of  the  Nobles 
of  the  land,  as  her  best  predecessors  had  done.     The  Lords  at 
Sterlin,  hearing  of  this  plot,  strives  to  prevent  it,  and  to  this 
purpose  they  appointed  with  the  Lord  Hume,  to  besiege  the 
Castle  of  Borthwicke,  where  the  Queen  and  Bothwell  was : 
But  because  the  Earle  of  Athole  did  not  come  at  the  houre 
appointed,  they  had  not  men  enough  to  environ  and  compass 
the  Castle  ;  so  that  Bothwell  having  notice  given  him  of  the 
business,  escaped  to   Dumbar,  and  the  Queen   after  him,  in 
man's  cloths.     The  Lords,  failing  of  their  designe  at  Borthwike 
Castle,   went  to  Edinburgh,    whereof  they  made    themselves 
masters  easily,  having  the  affections  of  the  people,  notwith- 
standing  the   Earl    Huntley  and   the   Archbishop   of  Saint 
Androis  perswasion  to  the  contrary.     These  two,  with  their 
associates,  were  constrained  to  retire  to  the  Castle,  where  they 
Avere  received  by  Sir  James  Balfour,  left  there  by  Bothwell. 

The  twelfth  of  June,  which  was  the  next  day  following,  the 
Lords  at  Edinburgh  caused  to  publish  a  proclamation,  whereby 
they  declared.  That  the  Earle  Bothwell,  who  had  been  the 
principall  author,  deviser,  and  actor  of  the  cruell  murther  of 


558  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

the  late  King,  had  since  laid  hand  upon  the  Queen's  person, 
and  had  her  for  the  present  in  Dumbar  in  his  power ;  and 
finding  her  utterly  destitute  of  all  good  counsell,  had  seduced 
her  to  a  dishonest  and  unlawfull  marriage  Avith  himselfe  ;  yea, 
that  now  he  was  gathering  forces,  and  stirring  himself  to  get 
the  young  Prince  in  his  hands,  that  he  might  murther  the 
child,  as  he  had  murthered  the  father.  This  wicked  man  the 
Nobles  of  the  land  resolved  to  withstand,  and  deliver  the  Queen 
out  of  his  bondage  ;  wherefore  they  did  charge  all  lieges  within 
the  kingdom  that  could  come  to  them,  to  be  in  readiness  at 
three  hours  warning  to  assist  them  (the  Nobles)  for  the  freeing 
of  the  Queen  from  captivity,  and  bringing  the  said  Earle  Both- 
well  to  a  legall  triall,  and  condign  e  punishment  for  the  afore- 
said murther  and  other  crimes.  All  such  that  would  not  side 
with  the  Lords  were  by  this  Proclamation  commanded  to 
dejjart  from  Edinburgh  within  four  hours,  under  the  pain  of 
being  accounted  enemies,  &c. 

Notwithstanding  this  Proclamation,  the  people  did  not  joyn 
unto  these  Lords  as  was  expected,  for  sundry  of  the  Nobles 
were  adversaries  to  the  business,  others  stood  as  neuters ; 
and  withall,  those  that  were  convened  together  were  not  well 
provided  of  amies  and  munition  for  exploits  of  warr  ;  so  that 
they  were  even  thinking  to  dissolve  and  leave  off  their  enter- 
prize  till  another  time,  and  had  absolutely  done  so ;  but  God 
had  ordained  other  wayes,  as  the  event  did  shew,  (if  the  Queen 
and  Bothwell  could  have  had  patience  to  stay  at  Dumbar  for 
three  or  four  dayes  without  any  stir  ;)  but  the  Queen  and  Both- 
well,  having  gathered  together  about  four  or  five  thousand  men, 
trusting  in  their  force,  (the  Queen  being  puft  up  by  flatterers,) 
set  forth  and  marched  towards  Leitli :  Being  come  forward  as 
far  as  Glaidsmure,  she  caused  publike  Proclamation  against  the 
aforesaid  Lords,  calling  them  a  number  of  conspirators,  and 
that  she  now  discerned  their  inward  malice  against  her  and 
her  husband,  the  Duke  of  Orkney,  (for  so  now  they  called  Both- 


1567.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  559 

well.)  After  tliey  had  endeavoured  to  apprehend  her  and  her 
husband  at  Borthwick,  and  had  made  a  seditious  Proclamation, 
under  jDretence  of  seeking  the  revenge  of  the  King  her  late 
husband,  and  to  free  her  from  captivity ;  giving  out,  that  the 
Duke  her  husband  had  a  minde  to  invade  the  Princfe  her 
Sonne  ;  all  which  was  false,  for  the  Duke  her  husband  had 
used  all  means  to  clear  himself,  both  by  a  legall  way  and  by 
the  offer  of  a  combate  to  any  that  did  accuse  him,  as  they  knew 
well  enough  :  As  touching  her  captivity,  she  was  in  none,  but 
was  in  company  with  her  husband,  unto  whom  she  was  pub- 
likely  married  in  the  view  of  the  world,  and  many  of  the  Nobles 
had  given  their  consent  unto  this  her  marriage  :  As  for  the 
Prince  her  sonne,  it  was  but  a  specious  pretence  to  the  treason 
and  rebellion  against  her  their  naturall  Sovereign  and  her  pos- 
teritie,  which  they  intended  to  overthrow  ;  wherefore  she  de- 
clared her  self  necessitated  to  take  amies,  hoping  that  all  her 
faithfull  subjects  would  adhere  unto  her,  and  that  those  who 
were  already  assembled  with  her,  would  with  good  hearts  and 
hands  stand  to  her  defence ;  and  for  the  recompence  of  their 
valour  they  should  have  the  lands  and  goods  of  these  unnaturall 
rebels.  After  this  Proclamation,  the  army  went  on,  and  the 
Queen  that  night  came  to  Seaton,  where  she  lay. 

About  midnight  the  Lords  of  Edinburgh  were  advertised  of 
the  Queen's  approach,  presently  they  took  amies,  and  at  the 
sun  rising  they  were  at  Musselburgh,  where  they  refreshed 
themselves  with  meat  and  rest.  The  Queen's  camp  was  not 
yet  stirring.  About  mid-day  the  scouts  that  the  Lords  had 
sent  out,  brought  word  that  the  enemie  was  marching  towards 
them  ;  presently  they  put  themselves  in  two  batallias  ;  the  first 
was  conducted  by  the  Earle  Morton  and  the  Lord  Hume  ;  the 
second  by  the  Earls  Athole,  Glencarne,  the  Lords  Lindsa}', 
Ruthven,  Seniple,  and  Sanchar,  with  the  Lairds  Drumlanrick, 
Tullibarden,  Cesfoord,  and  Graunge,  with  divers  others :  their 
number  was  almost  as  great  as  the  Queen's,  their  men  better, 


560  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

being  many  of  tliem  expert  men,  that  I  say  nothing  of  the 
cause.  Tlie  Queen  had  gained  a  hill  called  Carbarry,!  which 
the  Lords  (by  reason  of  the  steepness  of  the  ascent)  could  not 
well  come  at  ;  wherefore  they  wheeled  about  to  get  a  more 
convftiient  place  to  go  to  the  hill,  where  the  enemie  was,  and 
to  have  the  sunne  behind  them  in  the  time  of  the  fight.  At 
the  first  the  Queen,  seeing  their  thus  going  about,  did  imagine 
they  were  fleeing  away  to  Dalkeith,  but  when  she  saw  them 
come  directly  towards  her,  she  found  her  self  deceived. 

The  French  Ambassador,  seeing  them  ready  to  fight,  strived 
to  take  up  the  business,  and  having  spoken  with  the  Queen, 
went  to  the  Lords,  telling  them,  that  the  Queen  Avas  disposed 
to  peace,  and  to  forgive  and  pardon  this  insurrection  :  where- 
fore it  was  \erj  fit  to  spare  blood,  to  agree  in  a  peaceable  way 
The  Earle  of  Morton  (in  the  name  of  all  the  rest)  answered, 
That  they  had  taken  up  armes,  not  against  the  Queen,  but 
against  the  murtherer  of  the  King  ;  whom  if  she  would  deliver 
to  be  punished,  or  at  least  put  from  her  company,  she  should 
find  a  continuation  of  dutifuU  obedience  by  them,  and  all 
other  good  subjects ;  otherwise  no  peace :  besides,  we  are  not 
to  ask  pardon  for  any  ofi*ence  done  by  us.  The  Ambassador, 
seeing  their  resolution  to  stand  to  the  right  of  their  cause, 
withdrew,  and  went  to  Edinburgh. 

While  the  French  Ambassadour  was  thus  labouring  for  ac- 
commodation, Bothwell  came  out  of  the  camp  (which  was  in 
the  trench  that  the  Englishmen  had  left  at  their  last  being  in 
these  places,  as  we  have  said  in  the  former  Books,)  well  mount- 
ed, with  a  defie  to  any  that  would  fight  with  him.  James 
Murray,  brother  to  the  Laird  of  Tullibardin,  who  before  had 
accepted  of  Bothwell's  challenge,  when  he  made  the  rodo- 
montade at  Edinburgh,  immediately  after  the  King's  death  ; 
but  then  James  Murray  did  not  make  known  his  name.    Both- 

^  Carberry-bill,  in  the  parish  of  In-  of  Musselburgli,  and  seven  miles  from 
Yercsk,  about  two  miles  to  the  south-east       Edinburgh. 


15(56.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  5G1 

well  refused  to  figlit  with  James  Murray,^  alleadging  he  was  not 
his  equall.  Upon  this  the  elder  brother,  William  Murray,  Laird 
of  Tullibardin,  answered,  That  he  would  fight  with  him,  as 
being  his  better  in  estate,  and  in  antiquitie  of  house  many 
degrees  above  him  ;  yet  Bothwell  refused  him,  saying.  That 
he  was  not  a  Peer  of  the  Kingdom,  as  he  was  ;  then  sundry 
Lords  would  have  gone  to  fight  with  Bothwell ;  but  the  Lord 
Lindsey  namely,  who  said  to  the  rest  of  the  Lords  and  Grentle- 
men,  That  he  would  take  it  as  a  singular  favour  of  them,  and 
as  a  recompence  of  his  service  done  to  the  State,  if  they  would 
suffer  him  to  fight  with  the  braggadocio.  Bothwell  seeing 
that  there  was  no  more  subterfuge  nor  excuse,  under-hand  made 
the  Queen  to  forbid  him.  After  this  challenge  and  answers. 
Both  well's  complices  and  followers  were  very  earnest  to  fight, 
but  others  that  had  come  only  for  the  Queen's  sake,  became 
little  cold,  saying.  That  Bothwell  would  do  well  to  fight  himself, 
and  spare  the  blood  of  divers  gentlemen  that  were  there. 
Some  counselled  to  delay  the  battell  till  the  Hamiltons  came, 
whom  they  did  expect.  All  this  the  Queen  heard  with  anger  ; 
and  riding  up  and  downe,  burst  out  in  teares,  and  said,  They 
were  all  cowards  and  traytors  that  would  not  fight.  Imme- 
diately after  thus  vapouring,  the  Queen,  perceiving  sundiy  to 
leave  her,  she  advised  Bothwell  to  look  unto  himself,  for  she 
said  to  him,  she  would  i-ender  her  selfe  unto  the  Noble-men.2 
Upon  this  she  sent  for  James  Kirkaldie  of  Grange,^  with  Avhom 
she  kept  discourse  for  a  while,  till  that  she  was  assured  that 
Bothwell  was  out  of  danger.  Then  she  went  to  the  Lords,  Note  how 
whom  she  did  entertain  with  many  fair  words,  telling  them,  ^^  things 
That  it  Avas  neither  fear,  nor  w^ant  of  hope  of  victorie.  that  ^^^  ^  °^'^- 

'-  '     _        mcnt. 

made  her  come  unto  them,  but  a  meer  desire  to  spare  shedding 

1  "  James   Murray,  son  of  umquhill  berry-hill,  on    Sunday  the  1 5th  June  ; 

WilUam   Murray   of  TuUibardine,"    is  She  was  brought  that  night  to  Edin- 

mentioned  in  a  letter  of  Queen  Mary,  in  bm-gh,  and  on  the  following  day  was 

Aug.  1564.  (Recueil,  &c.,  vol.  i.  p.  221.)  sent  prisoner  to  Lochleven  Castle. 

^  Queen  Mary  surrendered  at   Car-  »  See  page  322,  note  7. 

VOL.  II.  .  2  N 

\ 


562  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

of  innocent  blood :  witliall  she  promised  to  be  ruled  and  advised 
by  tliem.  With  this  she  was  received  with  all  respect :  But 
shortly  after,  declaring  that  she  Avould  go  to  the  Hamiltons, 
with  promise  to  returne,  they  restrained  her  liberty,  and  brought 
her  along  with  them  to  Edinburgh  at  night :  She  was  very  slow 
in  marching,  looking  to  be  rescued  by  the  Hamiltons  ;  but  in 
vain.  She  lay  that  night  in  the  Provest  his  house.  The  next 
day,  the  Lords  sent  the  Queen  to  the  Castle  that  is  within  an 
Isle  of  Loclilevin.  Sir  James  Balfour,  seeing  the  Queen  com- 
mitted, and  Bothwell  consequently  defeated,  he  capitulated  with 
the  Lords  for  the  deliverie  of  the  Castle.  Bothwell,  finding 
himselfe  thus  in  disorder,  sent  a  servant  to  Sir  James  Balfour, 
to  save  a  little  silver  cabinet  which  the  Queen  had  given  him. 
Sir  James  Balfour  delivers  the  cabinet  to  the  messenger,  and 
under-hand  giveth  advice  of  it  to  the  Lords.  In  this  cabinet 
had  Bothwell  kept  the  letters  of  privacy  he  had  from  the  Queen  : 
Thus  he  kept  her  letters,  to  be  an  awe-bond  upon  her,  in  case 
her  affection  should  change.  By  the  taking  of  this  cabinet, 
many  particulars  betwixt  the  Queen  and  Bothwell  were  clearly 
discovered.  These  letters  were  after  printed  :  ^  They  were  in 
French,  with  some  sonnets  of  her  owne  making. 

[About  this  time  the  Earle  Bothwell  was  declared  by  open 
Proclamation  not  only  the  murtherer  of  the  King,  but  also  the 
committer  of  it  with  his  owne  hand  ;  and  a  thousand  crownes 
were  offered  to  any  man  that  would  bring  him  in.''^] 

Few  dayes  after  the  commitment  of  the  Queen,  the  Earl  of 
Glencame  with  his  domesticks  went  to  the  Chappell  of  Haly- 
rud-house,  where  he  brake  down  the  altars  and  the  images : 
which  fact,  as  it  did  content  the  zealous  Protestants,  so  it  did 
highly  offend  the  Popishly  affected.  The  Nobles,  who  had  so 
proceeded  against  Bothwell,  and  dealt  so  with  the  Queen,  hear- 
ing that  the  Hamiltons  had  a  great  number  of  men,  and  had 

^  In  Buchanan's  Detection,  Sic,  1572.       edit.  1644,  at  the  close  of  the  preceding 
=  This  sentence  is  inserted  in  the  4 to       paragraph. 


1566.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  5G;3 

drawn  the  Earls  of  Argyle  and  Huntley  to  tlieir  side,  sent  to 
Hamilton,  desiring  those  that  were  there  to  joyn  with  them, 
for  the  redress  of  the  disorders  of  the  Kirk  and  State  :  But 
the  Hamiltons,  thinking  now  they  had  a  ftiire  occasion  fallen 
unto  them  to  have  all  again  in  their  hands,  and  to  dispose  of 
all  according  to  their  own  mind,  did  refuse  audience  to  the 
message  sent  by  the  Lords. 

Upon  this,  the  Lords  moved  the  Gcnerall  Assembly  then 
met  in  Edinburgh,^  in  the  moneth  of  June,  to  write  to  tlie 
Lords  that  either  were  actually  declared  for  the  Hamiltons  or 
were  neuters  :  And  so  severall  letters  were  directed  to  the  Earls 
of  Argyle,  Huntley,  Cathnes,  Rothesse,  Crauford,  and  Menteith  ; 
to  the  Lords  Boyd,  Drummond,  Graliam,^  Cathcart,  Tester, 
Fleming,  Levingston,  Seaton,  Glams,  Uchiltry,  Gray,  Olyphant, 
Methven,  Innermeth,^  and  Somervile,  as  also  to  divers  other  men 
of  note.  Besides  the  letters  of  the  Assembly,  Commissioners 
were  sent  from  the  Assembly  to  the  Lords  above-named ;  to 
wit,  John  Knox,  John  Dowglas,  John  Row,  and  John  Craig, 
who  had  instructions  conforme  to  the  tenour  of  the  letters,  to 
desire  these  Lords  and  others,  to  come  to  Edinburgh,  and  joyne 
with  the  Lords  there,  for  the  setling  of  God's  true  worship  in 
the  Church,  and  Policie  reformed  according  to  God's  Word,  a 
maintenance  for  the  Ministers,  and  support  for  the  Poor :  But 
neither  the  Commissioners  nor  the  letters  did  prevaile  with 
these  men ;  they  excused,  that  they  could  not  repair  to  Edin- 
burgh with  freedom,  where  there  was  so  many  armed  men,  and 
a  garrison  so  strong  :  But  for  the  Church  affairs  they  would 
not  be  any  wayes  wanting,  to  do  what  lay  in  them. 

The  Lords  at  Edinburgh,  seeing  this,  joyneth  absolutely  with 

1  The  General  Assembly  metou  the  severalpersons  towhomcoiiiesof  it  were 
25th  Jmie,  and  Mr.  Geoi'ge  Buchanan  addressed.  After  appointing  a  General 
was  chosen  Moderator.  The  Book  of  Fast  to  be  observed  on  Simday  the  13th 
the  Universall  Kirk  contains  the  letter  and  the  20th  of  July,  the  Assembly  ad- 
signed  by  Knox,  Row,  Craig,  Erskine,  jom-ned  to  the  21st  of  that  month. 
Spottiswood,  and  Douglas,  dated  26th  ^  In  the  Edinburgh  editions  1644, 
June  1567;  and  also  the  names  of  the  "  Ghram"  and  "Inderneth." 


564  THE  HISTORY  OF  Book  V. 

the  Assembly,  (which  had  been  prorogated  to  the  20.  of  July,i 
upon  the  occasion  of  these  Letters  and  Commissioners  aforesaid,) 
and  promiseth  to  make  good  all  the  Articles  they  thought  fit 
to  resolve  upon  in  the  Assembly  :  But  how  they  perfomied 
their  promises,  God  knows.  Alwayes  the  Articles  they  agreed 
upon  were  these  •?■ 

1.  That  the  Acts  of  Parliament  holden  at  Edinburgh  the 
24.  of  August  1560,  touching  Religion,  and  abolishing  the 
Pope's  authoritie,  should  have  the  force  of  a  publike  law  ;  and 
consequently  this  Parliament  defended  as  a  lawfuU  Parliament, 
and  confirmed  by  the  first  Parliament  that  should  be  kej^t  next. 

2.  That  the  Thirds  of  the  Tythes,  or  any  more  reasonable 
proportion  of  Benefices,  should  be  allowed  towards  the  main- 
tenance of  the  Ministeiy  ;  and  that  there  should  be  a  charitable 
course  taken  concerning  the  exacting  of  the  tythes  of  the  poor 
labourers.  [Moreover,  that  nothing  should  pass  in  Parliament 
till  the  affaires  of  the  Kirk  be  first  considered,  appro ven,  and 
established.] 

3.  That  none  should  be  received  in  the  Universities,  Col- 
ledges,  or  Schooles,  for  instruction  of  the  youth,  but  after  due 
tryall  both  of  capacitie  and  probitie. 

4.  That  all  crimes  and  offences  against  God,  should  be 
punished  according  to  God's  word ;  and  that  there  should  be  a 
law  made  there  anent,  at  the  first  Parliament  to  be  holden. 

5.  As  for  the  homble  murther  of  the  late  King,  husband  to 
the  Queen,  which  was  so  haynous  before  God  and  man,  all  true 
professors,  in  whatsoever  rank  or  condition,  did  promise  to 
strive  that  all  persons  should  be  brought  to  condigne  punish- 
ment, who  are  found  guilty  of  the  same  crime. 

1  At    the  Assembly  in  July   1567,  tained  in  the  Book  of  the  Universall 

"  Letters  of  Excusation,"  from  the  Earl  Kirk,  (vol.  i.  pages  101-103.) 
of  Argyle,  the  Commendator  of  Abcr-  ^  These  Articles  are  here  given  only 

brothok,    (Lord   John  Hamilton,)    and  in  a  condensed  or  abridged  form.     8ee 

Thomas  Menzies,  provost  of  Aberdeen,  Book  of  the  Universall  Kirk,  vol.  i.,  pages 

■were  read ;  and  copies  of  them  are  con-  lOG-1 10. 


1566.  THE  REFORMATION  IN  SCOTLAND.  565 

6.  They  all  promised  to  protect  the  joung  Prince  against 
all  violence,  lest  he  should  be  murthered  as  his  father  was ; 
and  that  the  Prince  should  be  committed  to  the  care  of  four 
wise  and  godly  men,  that  by  a  good  education,  he  might  be 
fitted  for  that  high  calling  he  was  to  execute  one  day. 

7.  The  Nobles,  Barons,  and  others,  doth  promise  to  beat 
down  and  abolish  Popery,  Idolatiy,  and  Superstition,  with  any 
thing  that  may  contribute  unto  it ;  as  also  to  set  up  and  ftir- 
ther  the  true  worship  of  God,  his  government,  the  Church,  and 
all  that  may  concern  the  purity  of  Religion  and  life ;  and  for 
this  to  convene  and  take  arms,  if  need  require. 

8.  That  all  Princes  and  Kings  hereafter  in  this  Realm,  before 
their  Coronation,  shall  take  oath  to  maintain  the  true  Reli- 
gion now  professed  in  the  Church  of  Scotland,  and  suppress 
all  things  contrary  to  it,  and  that  are  not  agreeing  with  it. 

To  these  Articles  "^  subscribed  the  Earls  of  Morton,  Glencarne, 
and  Marr,  the  Lords  Hume,  Ruthven,  Sanchar,  Lindsey,  Grame, 
Innermeth,  and  Uchiltrie,  with  many  other  Barons,  besides 
the  Commissioners  of  the  Burroughs. 

This  being  agreed  upon,  the  Assembly  dissolved.  There- 
after the  Lords  Lindsay  and  Ruthven  were  sent  to  Lochlevin 
to  the  Queen,  to  present  unto  her  two  writs  ;  the  one  contained 
a  renunciation  of  the  Crowne  and  Royall  dignitie  in  favour  of 
the  Prince  her  son  ;  with  a  Commission  to  invest  him  into  the 
Kingdome,  according  to  the  manner  accustomed :  which  after 
some  reluctancy,  with  tears,  she  subscribed^  by  the  advice  of 
the  Earle  of  Athole,  who  had  sent  to  her;  and  of  Secretary 
Lethington,  who  had  sent  to  her  Robert  Melvill^  for  that  pur- 

1  The  names  of  the  Subscribei-s  to  July  1567,  were  published  with  other 

these  Articles,  amotmting  in  all  to  79  docviments  connected  with  them  in  An- 

persons,  are  inserted  in  the  Book  of  the  derson's  Collections,  vol.  ii.  Edinb.  1727, 

Universall  Kirk,  (vol.  i.  p.  110.)  4to :   see  also  Keith's  History,  vol.  ii. 

^  The   throe   Insti*uments   signed  at  p.  706,  &c. 
Lochlevin,  by  Queen  Mary,  on  the  24tli  ^  See  page  361,  note  2. 


566  HISTORY  OF  THE  REFORMATION.  Book  V. 

pose :  So  there  was  a  procuration  given  to  the  Lords  Lindsey 
and  Ruthven,  hv  the  Queen,  to  give  up  and  resign  the  rule  of 
the  Realm,  in  presence  of  the  States. 

The  second  writ  was,  To  ordain  the  Earle  of  MuiTay  Regent 
during  the  Prince's  minority,  if  he  would  accept  the  charge  : 
And  in  case  he  refused  [to  accept  the  said  office  upon  his  single 
person,  that  he  with]  the  Duke  Chattelarault,  the  Earles  of 
Lenox,  Argyle,  Athole,  Morton,  Glencarne,  and  Marr,  should 
govern  conjunctly. 

These  writs  were  published  the  29.  of  July  1567,  at  the 
Market  Crosse  of  Edinburgh.  Then  at  Sterlin  was  the  Prince 
crowned  King,  where  John  Knox  made  the  sermon.  Tlie  Earle 
Morton  and  the  Lord  Hurne  took  the  oath  for  the  King,  that 
he  should  constantly  live  in  the  profession  of  the  true  Religion, 
and  maintain  it  ;  and  that  he  should  govern  the  Kingdom  ac- 
cording to  [the]  law  thereof,  and  doe  justice  equally  to  all. 

In  the  begimiing  of  August,  the  Earle  Murray  being  sent 
for,  cometh  home  ;^  in  all  haste  he  visits  the  Queen  at  Loch- 
levin,  strives  to  draw  the  Lords  that  had  taken  part  with  the 
Hamiltons,  or  were  neuters,  to  joynewith  those  that  had  bound 
themselves  to  stand  for  the  King's  authoritie  :  He  was  very 
earnest  with  divers,  by  reason  of  their  old  friendship,  but  to 
little  purpose.  The  twentie  of  August,  he  received  his  Regency, 
after  mature  and  ripe  deliberation,  at  the  desire  of  the  Queen, 
and  Lords  that  were  for  the  King,  and  so  was  publikely  pro- 
claimed Regent,  and  obedience  showed  unto  him  by  all  that 
stood  for  the  young  King. 

The  end  of  the  History  of  the  Church  of  Scotland,  till 
the  tear  1567,  and  moneth  of  argust. 

*  At  the  time  of  Queen  Mary's  renun-  leven.     He  was  solemnly  inaugui-ated 

ciation  of  the  Crown,  the  Earl  of  Mur-  as.  Regent  in  the  Council  Chamber  of 

ray  was  in  France.     After  his  return  the  Tolbooth,  or  Parliament  House,  and 

to  Edinburgh,  the  11th  August,  he  had  publicly   proclaimed   at   the   Cross   of 

an  interview  with  the  Queen  at  Loch-  Edinburgh,  22d  August  1567 


APPENDIX. 


APPENDIX. 


No.  I. 

Interpolations  and  Various  Readings  in  the  Editions  of 
Knox's  History  of  the  Reformation,  by  David  Buchanan, 
printed  at  London,  1644,  folio,  and  reprinted  at  Edin- 
burgh, 1644,  quarto,  (Continued  from  Vol.  I.  page  494.) 

BOOK   THIRD. 


(the  pages  and  lines  at  the  left-hand  side  refer  to  the  present  edition.) 

Page  9,  line  18.  that  they  destroyed  not — to  stop  them  from  destroying. 
— 22.  all  credibility — almost  credit. — 28.  they  slew — was  slain. 

10,  1.  9.  but  a  cowart — a  very  coward. — 13.  the  said — and. 

11,  ].  10.  schybaldis — scybalds  and  rascals. — 13.  glansing  .... 
feirceness,  stamered  almost — glasing    .  .  .  fear  stumbled. — 20. 

scatring  .  .  .  creatures — straying  and  wandering  .   .  .  people. 

13,  1.  1.  xxiij.  day — the  thirteenth. — 3.  sea-cost — coast. — 11.  sensed 
— seized  upon. — \b.  foir-ryderis — forwarners. — 17.  the  ryveivg 
of  a  baird — pulling  of  bairds  for  anger. 

14,  1.  8.  Verry  tyme  reteiring — time  returning. — 10.  fouchtein — 
foughton  with. 

15, 1.  30.  of  Ingland — of  State  in  England. 

16,  1.  7.  occupyed — taken  up. — 10.  as  it — as  the  favour  it. — 12. 
these  my  presentis — my  present  letter. — 13.  breve — few. 

17,  1.  9.  and  p.  21,  1.  28.  defectioun — desertion. 

19,  1.  9.  cruellie — rudelie. — 19.  guid — cleare. 

20,  1.  14.  against — against,  or  answered. 

21,  {Margitial  note  leanting.) — 9.  dejectioun — defection. — 10.  thair 
faces — faire  faces. — 21.  ather  yet  of  any  continuance  to  retnaine 


570  APPENDIX.  No.  I. 

in  England — or  yet  to  remain  any  long  time  in  England. — 
23.  furthe  to  my  ai&in — thorow  to  my. 

22,  1.  12.  theirefter,  {omitted.) — 18.  Yjf  England,  {in  margin,)  As 
England  had  interest  then  not  to  suffer  Scotland  to  perish,  so 
likewise  Scotland  hath  interest  now  [1644,]  not  to  see  Eng- 
land undone. 

25,  1.  17.  naturall — wise. — 32.  humill — most  humble. 

26, 1.  6.  in  tennour  as  efter  followis — The  tenour  whereof  follows 
thus. — 11.  in  a  few  and  simple  words  oi  my. — 15.  writter — 
writers  thereof. 

27,  1.  1.  Chryst  Jesus — for  Christ. — 2,  3.  of  the  same  to,  {omitted,) 
— 7.  nott — not  should. — 20.  Quenis  Grace — Queen's  favour. — 
21.  not,  {omitted.) — 23.  The  common  things  here. 

28,  1.  17.  retract — recant. — 19.  that  either  your  Grace,  either  yitt  ony 
— that  your  Majesty,  or  any. — 29.  thristit — wished. 

29,  1.  3.  that — that  book. — 14.  crouche — crouche  and  bows. — 23. 
factioun — fact, — 27.  woman — women  to  command  and  bear 
rule  over  men. — 30.  before  men,  {omitted.) 

30,  1.  4.  be  long,  prosperoitse — be  both  prosperous. — 14.  hasard — 
travail. — 21.  idollatrie — idolatry,  going  to  Masse  under  your 
sister  Mary,  her  persecution  of  God's  saints. — 33.  contrair  to 
nature — contrary  to  the  ordinary  course  of  nature. 

31,  1.  5,  6.  gif  the  premisses  .  .  .  neglected,  ye  sail — if  you  neglect 

.  .  .  these   things,  and   shall. — 19.  discretioun  of  spreittis — 

direction  of  his  spirit. 
33,  1.  8.  Lords — Lords  of  the  Congregation. 
39,  1.  7,  8.  amanges  which  .  .  .  is  maid,  {omitted.) 
45, 1.  27,  28.   Hamyltoun,  second  .  .  .  the  Counsalle — Hamilton  and 

others  of  the  Councell. 
46,  1.  9.  ministeris — Monsieurs,  I  had  almost  said  monsters. — 14. 

so  intollerable — hath  been,   I  say,  so  intolerable. — 22.  gentillie 

.  .  .  covenantes — willingly  .  .  .  conditions. 
49,  1.  10.   {Margin,)  Let  us  mark  our  advantage  from  France. 
53,   {The  names  arranged  in  a  diffet^ent  order.) 
57,  1.  1.  artny — armie    by   land. — 22.    catyveis   awin    quhynger — 

wretches  own  dagger. — 29.  army  be  land— of  the  land. 
61,  1.  15.  {Margin,)  The  Fourth  Covenant. 
63,  1.  13.  before  .  .  .  please — as  it  pleaseth  them. — In  pp.  63  and 

64,  the  passage  in  brackets,  and  the  marginal  note   in    p.   64, 

omitted. 
G4,  {Margin,)  Let  the  Princes  now  adayes  make  use  of  this. — 23. 


No.  I.  APPENDIX.  571 

{Margin^  So  now  [1644]  the  worldlings  speak  unto  the  King 
concerning  the  Scots  into  England. 

65,  1.  12.  gevi)ig  its  in — delivering  and  giving  into. — 18.  Mr  affec- 
tiouns — their  affections. — {Margin,)  The  Hamiltons,  namely. 

66,  1.  23.  {Margin,)  Note  this  diligently. 

67,  1.  19.  {Margin,)  We  must  go  to  the  first  cause  in  all  things. 

70,  1.  23.  {Margin,)  Let  the  Princes  now  make  use  of  these  words 
of  this  dying  Queen. 

71,  1.  12.  annoy ntit  of — anointed  with  extreme  unction,  after. — 28 
to  72,  1.  4.  God,  for  .  .  .  to  appeir.  The  Guisian  councells,  as 
they  were  wicked  and  cruell  to  the  people,  so  they  proved 
mischievous  to  themselves,  and  to  them  that  followed  them,  to 
this  day. 

72,  1.  15.  {Margin,)  Note  a  Character  of  Popishly  addicted  French 
Officers  of  State. 

73,  1.  3.  tratisactit  and  aggreit  be  the  Reverend  Father  in  God,  Johne 
— translated  and  agreed  by  John. — 10.  anent  the — and  the. 

74,1.  11.  be  not  afflrmit — be  affirmit. — 16.  deprivation — ruine. 

75,  1.  25.  {Margin,)  Note  how  they  limit  the  Prince. 

76,  1.  27.  {Margi7i,y^oie,  how  the  Prince  is  limited  ;  and  his  will  is 
not  a  Law. 

77,  1.  4.  sevintene — five. — 17.  the  saidis  xvii — the  said  five. 

78,  1.  10.  not  be  lefull—he  lawfull. 

79,  1.  4.  saidis  sail  oblisse  thame — said  States  shall  oblige  them. — 
27.  pairtis,  (omitted.) — 31.  denude — take  from  these  any  of 
them,  their  subjects,  the  offices. — 32.  hruikit — brooked,  and  en- 
joyed. 

83,1.  7.  {omitted.)— 1\,  12.   To  the  loving  .  .  .  Christians — To  the 

glory  of  the  Almighty  Lord  God,  and  to  the  comfort  of  all 

Christians. — 23.  charge  to  the  brekaris — charge  that  none  shall 

break  the  same. 
86,  1.  21.  aith  and  covenant — {margin,)  Note  a  Covenant  betwixt 

England  and  Scotland,  1560. 
88,  1.  8-12.  {Margin,)  Some  Prelats  left  Antichrist  and  did  adhere 

unto  Christ. 
92, 1.  8.  ^ai/^— leave. — 19,  20.  {Margin,)  See  how  this  agrees  with 

our  times. — 22.  are  not  injust — and  are  unjust. 
93,  1.  8.   Godis  word— Godi. 
95,  1.  13.  laitlie — now  again  borne. 
97-120,1.  24  inclusive,  {The  marginal  notes  to  the  Confession  of 

Faith  are  omitted,  and  the  Scripture  references  multiplied.) 


572  APPENDIX.  No.  I. 

102,  1.  33.  visibillie  and  apparently  returne. 

103,  1.  7.  nnfailhfull — unthankful. — 12.  refranit — reservit. — 22.  and 
supreame,  {omitted.)  _ 

106,  1.  6,  10,  and  20,  and  108,  1.  6.  {Marginal  notes  omitted.) 
113,  114,  IIG,  and  117,  {Marginal  notes  omitted.) 

120,  1.  5,  13,  16.  {Clauses  in  brackets  icanting.)— 27.  28.  August— 28. 
July. — {Margin,)  This  we  confirmed,  1567,  in  the  first  Parlia- 
ment of  James  6,  held  by  the  Earle  Murray,  and  all  Acts  in 
any  Parliament  before  whatsoever,  against  the  truth,  abolished. 

121,  1.  2.  Articles,  {Margin,)  The  Lords  of  the  Articles  are  a  Com- 
mittee of  twenty-four,  whereof  in  former  times  there  was  eight 
Lords,  eight  Church-men,  who  were  called  Lords,  and  eight 
Commons :  So  from  the  gi-eater  part  they  were  named  Lords, 
and  of  the  Articles,  because  all  Articles  and  Heads  that  are  to 
passe  in  Parliament  are  first  brought  to  them,  who,  having 
discussed  them,  sends  them  to  the  House  of  Parliament.  The 
Latin  Histories  calls  their  (thir)  Lords  of  the  Articles  Apolecti. 
— 7.  coidd,  any — could  say  any. 

122,  1.  2,  3.  and  many,  the  rather,  because  that  the  Bischoppis 
wold  nor  durst — and  the  rather,  because  that  fain  the  Bishops 
vrold,  but  durst. — {Margin,)  vote  pious  voice. — 7.  my  God, 
who  this  day. — 21.  that  thei — that  have. 

123,  1.  6.  {Margin,)  This  Act  is  particularly  confirmed  1567,  in  the 
Parliament  under  James  VI.,  holden  by  the  Earl  Murray. — 
19.  usurjnt,  {omitted.) 

124,  1.  7.  [■  .  .  .  ]  {omitted.) — 11.  justifieing  to  the  dead — chastising 
by  death. — 1^.  judges  tchatsumever — judges.  The  Act  for  abo- 
lishing of  the  Pope,  and  his  usurped  authority  in  Scotland. — 
23.  {Margin,)  This  also  was  confirmed  by  one  particular  Act, 
1567,  by  the  Parliament  holden  by  the  Earle  Murray. 

125,  1.  2,  6.  [  ...  ]  omitted. — 8.  sute — claim. 
126, 1.  6.  {Margi?i,)  Note  this  diligently. 

127,  1.  3.  {Margin,)  Note  this,  I  pray  you,  for  these  dayes  sake. — 
11.  great  counsallouns. — 12.  '^ust  co)nmandiment. — 21.  since  it 
was  ;  (he  meanes  untill  1566,  when  this  book  was  written.) — 22. 
misled  Prince. 

128,  1.  10.  {Margin,)  See  how  this  agrees  with  the  worldlings  now 
adayes. — 20.  hanged — crucified. — 23.  a  verray  JesabeU — a  very 
evill  woman. — {Margin,)  What  blessings  hath  been  since  in 
the  house  of  Erskin,  they  know  best. 

129,  1.  18.   Galloway,    (this  Bishop    of  Galloway,  as  he  renounced 


No.  I.  APPENDIX.  573 

Popery,  so  did  he  Prelacie,  witnesse  his  subscrii)tion  of  the 
Book  of  Discipline,  as  the  rest  of  the  Prelats  did  who  did  joyne 
to  the  Reformation,)  Alexander  Campbell^  &c. 

130,  1.  2.  thairto  eikked—ihevQio  asked, — (Mar^hu)  Note  how  al- 
though the  Prelats  being  convinced  of  the  truth,  did  subscribe 
unto  it,  yet  it  was  with  this  Proviso,  That  they  should  enjoy 
their  rents  for  their  lives. — 17.  invasion,  and  common  enemies. 
— {The  remainder  of  the  paragrajjh,  referring  to  the  Earl  of 
Arran,  omitted.) — 20.  hai'd  besieged. 

131,  1.  13.  {Margin,)  Note  men  to  their  own  country. 

132,  1.  10.  {Margin,)  Note  this  for  our  dayes. — 18.  {ib.)  Let  this 
teach  us  to  seek  God. — 25.  {Margin,)  Jesabell — Queen. 

133,  1.  9.  Mother  of  the  King. — 11.   Prince  of  Conde  his  brother. 

134,  {Marginal  note  omitted.) — 14.  {Date  also  on  mat-gin.) 

135,  1.  3.    Thegodlie  ....  {to  IZQ,,\.  I'd,)  devoir  you,  {omitted.) 

{Instead  of  the  verses,  Buchanan  has  inserted  the  following 
statement,  and  in  thus  bringing  the  matter  down  to  his  own  time, 
he  has  mistaken  the  allusion  in  the  verses  to  the  Emperor  Charles 
the  Fifth,  as  if  it  referred  to  Charles  the  Ninth  of  France:) 
— Some  in  France,  after  the  sudden  death  of  Francis  the 
2',  and  calling  to  mind  the  death  of  Charles  the  9'  in  blood, 
and  the  slaughter  of  Henry  the  2'',  did  remark  the  tragicall  end 
of  these  three  Princes,  who  had  persecuted  God's  servants  so 
cruelly  by  their  instruments  the  Guisians ;  and  by  their  pens, 
both  in  prose  and  verse,  did  advise  all  other  Princes  not  to 
authorize  any  persecution  or  wrong  done  unto  God's  servants, 
lest  they  should  have  the  like  end.  And  indeed  the  following 
Kings  of  France  unto  this  day  hath  found  this  true  by  their  in- 
fortunate  and  unexpected  ends. 

137,  1.  4-8.  Ambassadouris  .  ,  .  the  p-yde  {omitted.) — 12.  The 
Erie  of  Arrane  having  suffered  repulse  in  his  designe  to  marry 
the  Queen  of  England,  he  begane  to  fancie  unto  himselfe  that 
the  Queen  of  Scotland. — 18.  ^uchanstoer. — 21.  Men  his  friends 
wold  have  wissed,  for  grief  he  was  troubled  in  his  understand- 
ing.— 24.  churches  abroad,  and  some. — 25.  letteris,  {omitted.) 

138,  1.  4.  cotiference  alone,  the  Erie  of  Arrane  was  in  Jedburgh,  to 
whom. — 11.  purposes;  and  ^e  comforting  them;  For  wh/U  {we 
sag)  thei  three. — 18.  devulgat  and,  {omitted.) — 24.  sub-principall, 
and  under-master  of  one  of  the  schools  of  Abirdene. 

139,  1.  13.  {Margin,)   Note  this  well. 

140,  1,  16.   Messe  is  said  to  be  a  sacri/ice. 


574  APPENDIX.  No.  I. 

141,  {F irst  marginal  note  taken  into  the  text. — Second  marginal  note 
omitted^ — 10.  (Margin,)  Note  Lesly  his  answer. — 12.  "That 
is  Anno  15 G6  when  this  book  was  w^ritten." — 14.  /or  we  under- 
stand that .  .  .  gett  and  bastard. — 20.  doted  and  endowed. 

142,  1.  18.  (Margin,)  Note  the  liberahty  of  the  Earle  Murray. 

143,  1.  30.  (Margin,)  Note  this  diligently. 

144,  1.  1,  3.  Sttperiniendent,  and  all  other  ministers  at  Edinburghe. — 
4.  minister — then  preacher. — 6,  7.  Superintendetits,  or  over- 
seers.— 8.  Fourth  and. 

145,  1.  10.  Superintendent  or  overseer. — 25.  (Margin,)  Where  then 
are  pluralities  and  fatnesse  of  livings  in  our  dayes. 

146,  1.  5.  Marie,  (omitted.) — 31.  (Margin,)  Let  the  Churchmen  now 
adayes  look  to  this. 

147,  1.  24.  (Margin,)  What  can  the  Prelates  say  to  this.— 29,  30. 
Superintendent,  or  overseer  and  minister. 

148,  1.  3.  ministry  and  watching  over  you  against. — 23.  so  luifit — 
loved. — 25.  ignominious  deyth  .  .  .  thy  most  precious  and  in- 
nocent.— 27.  thy,  (omitted.) — in  recent  memory. 

149,1.  9.  dregis — degrees. — 22.  and  then,  (omitted.) 

151  to  p.  154  inclusive  (omitted. — See  footnote,  p.  151.) 

155,  1.  10.  fleschour  or  boutcher. 

15G,  1.  1.  hoisiit  and  threatened. — 4.  (Marginal  note  enlarged.) — See 
the  study  of  France  to  divide  the  two  kingdoms  newly  bound 
for  maintenance  of  Religion  against  the  common  enemies. — 
21.   (Margin,)  The  Protestants  faithfulness  ill  rewarded. 

157,  1.  7.  (Margin,)  A  foolish  play  used  in  time  of  darknesse,  hence 
we  say  any  foolish  thing  to  be  like  a  play  of  Robin-Hood. 

158,  1.  20.  unhonest — and  honest. — 28.  qiihilk — till. 

159, 1.  lO./ye  deaconis — six  deacons. — 2fi.  penny,  or  afternoon's  pint. 

160,  1.  5,  6.  spare  it,  nor  forget  it. — 11.  haif  heard  befoir. — 23.  to 
purge — to  repugne. — (Margin,)  death — biiriall. — 25.  teas  wrap- 
ped in  a  coffin  of  lead. 

161,  1.  3,  4.  It  may  .  .  .  this  Reahne — As  men  do,  so  they  receive. 
— 10.  calsay  or  street. — 20.  usaris — banters. 

162,  1.  10.  and  that .  .  .  thairupoun.,  (omitted.) 

163,  1.  1.  (Margin,)  Note  diligently. — 20.  (ib.)  Let  this  also  be 
considered,  and  referred  to  our  times. 

165,  1.  14.  upone  the  now  decayed  Pont  of  Change. 

166,  a/i!erl.  16.  The  Lords  answer  to  the  French  Ambassadour. — 
17.  (Margin,)  Reader,  remark  the  advantages  that  Scotland  hath 
from  France. — 29.  (Margin,)  A  good  character  of  Bishops. 


No.  I.  APPENDIX.  f)75 

167,  1.  9.  {Buchanan's  edition  has  the  words  in  brackets.) 

168,  1.  5.  (Margin,)  Let  us  stick  to  God,  and  he  will  not  leave  us. 

169,  (Inserted,)  The  Amhtissudor's  letter,  foUoived  bi/  Madame. — 1. 
(T//e  date  is  put  to  the  end.) — (All  omitted  before)  I  send. — 8.  so, 
I  tokl  her,  did. — 10.  offices  of  civilitie. — 12.  proporte — tenour. 
— 20.  am^wer,  as  followeth,  (title.) — 23.  a  verray  gude  case, 
and  in  way  of  a  full  recoverie, — 26.  respect — defer. — (Margin,) 
Faire  words  to  no  purpose. 

171,  1.  24.  (Margin,)  hyet  not — said  not  amisse. 

172,  1.  15.  the  King  of  France. — 23.  dissimulatioun  and  policy,  as 
thay  terme  it  now  adayes. — ^0.  (Margin,)  The  consecratioiai  .  .  . 
yow,  (omitted.) 

173,  1.  9.  my  Lord,  the.— 12.  Caiaphas—The  High  Priest.— 23. 
(Margiii,)  Bot .  .  .  him  self,  Notwithstanding  his  own  disorder. 
— 30.  (Marginal  note  omitted.) 

174,  1.  13.  amitie,  of  which  there  should  be  no  want  on  hir  behalf. — 
23.  rennncit — renewit. — oure  ill-counselled  and  misled  Queen. 
— 29.  And  .  .  .  thrid,  (omitted.) 

175,  \.  25.  (Margin,)  Note  this  false  lye,  and  see  how  it  answers  to 
the  calumnies  of  these  dayes. 

177, 1.  1.  (Margin,)  Princes  little  regarded  that. — 4  or  5.  (Marginal  note 
omitted.) — 30.  (Margin,)  All  power  is  not  then  in  the  Prince,  if 
the  States  have  any,  as  they  have.     Note  this. 

178,  1.  31.  Madame,  Pleis. 

179,  1.  8.  ill  Goddis presence,  (omitted.) — 13.  allegeance — obedience. 
— 21.  Note  the  Scots  acknowledgement. 

180,  1.  12.   Thorntoun — Throgmorton. 

181,  1.  2.  Roman  harlot — Roman  Antichrist. — 7.  to  p.  182,  1.  5. 
(This paragraph  is  wholly  omitted  ;  and  in  its  place  we  read  : — ) 

The  Books  of  Discipline  have  been  of  late  so  often  published, 
that  we  shall  forbeare  to  print  them  at  this  time,  hoping  that 
no  good  men  will  refuse  to  follow  the  same,  till  God  in  a 
greater  light  establish  a  more  perfect. 
183-260,  The  Buke  of  Discipline  :  see  No.  II.  of  this  Appendix, 
page  587. 

BOOK  FOURTH. 

263,  1.  5.  (Margin,)  Isaiah  xl.  31. — 9.  (ib.)  A  true  acknowledgement 
of  man's  Aveakness,  to  the  glory  of  God  ;  and  as  it  was  then,  so 
hath  it  been  in  this  last  Reformation. 


576  APPENDIX.  No.  I. 

264,  1.  7.  {Margin,)  As  it  was  then,  so  it  is  now,  by  God's  mercies 
to  that  nation. — 11,  12.  our  own  wisdome. — 24.  {Margin,) 
Let  this  be  noted  for  example. 

265,  1.  5.  till  that  mo  Pharaoes  then — till  that  now  the  Pharaohs 
then. — 11,  12.  1566  in  May — in  May  1561. — 15.  (Margin,) 
the  words,  of  the  Kirk,  (omitted.) — 26.  may  nott  these  men 
have  their  Masse,  and  the  form  of  their. 

266,  1.  9.  (Margin,)  He  means  the  Lord  James,  Earle  Murray. — 
16.  suche  deape  root  in  jiesche  and  bloode,  and  was  (as  yet  alas 
they  are)  preferred  to  God,  and  to  his  messengeris  rehucking  vice 
and  vanity,  that  from  thence  hath  all  our  miser ie  proceeded. — 
33.  (Margin,)  Wicked  Councellours  fathers  all  their  mischie- 
vous plots  upon  misled  Princes,  and  causeth  them  to  take  all 
things  upon  them. 

267,  1.  10.  to  justice,  (omitted.) — 17.  (Margin,)  The  Queen's  arrival 
from  France,  1561, 

268,  1.  4.  (Margin,)  Triste  et  Lugubre  Ccelum. 

269,  (Margin,)    (Buchanan  agrees  with  footnote  1.) 

270,  (The  footnotes  1,  3,  and  5,  agree  with  MS.  G.) — 16.  to  bolden 
— to  be  emboldened. 

271,  1.  2.  (Margin,)  Lord  James,  notwithstanding  his  former  zeal  to 
the  Truth,  complying  with  the  Court,  favoureth  Idolatry. — 8. 
(Note  omitted.) — 12.   (Margin,)  A  godly  resolution. 

272,  1.  20.  may  be,  to  their  serious  consideration.     And  lest  that. 

273,  1.  1.  thame  selffis  in  the  meanetyme,  while. — 5.  contentment 
o^all,  the  law  bidding,  That  nane. — 20.  derisioun — assault. — 
31.  (Margin,)  The  Lord  Arran's  stout  and  godly  protestation 
against  the  Queen's  Masse. 

274,  1.  31.   (Margin,)  Good  resolution,  if  followed. 

276,  1.  23.  (Margin,)The  Courteouris  making  (mocking.) — 31.  (ib.) 
Note  diligently  how  wise  and  godly  men  are  so  mistaken  oft,  as 
to  play  after  games :  and  this  M.  Knox  doth  acknowledge  here. 

277,  1.  5.  (Marginal  note  omitted.) — 9.  slokin — slacken. — 34.  (Mar- 
gin^ Note  how  that  Princes  are  informed  against  God's  servant. 

278,  1.  11,  12.  (Margin,)  Let  this  be  noted  diligently. — 15.  (ib.)  Let 
the  Prince  note  this. — 33.   (ib.)  Let  this  wise  reply  be  noted. 

279,  1.  18.  Nero,  the  Koman  Emperour. — 23.  Jesabell — Mary. — 28. 
anthoritie — anxietie. 

280,  1.  12.  (Margin,)  Note  this  undertaking. 

281,  1.  27,  29,  and  282,  1.  10.  (Marginal  notes  omitted.)— U. 
(Margin,)  Note  this  comparison. 


No.  I.  APPENDIX.  577 

283,  1.  1.  shall  not  only  obey  you.     {Marginal  note  omitted.) 

284,  1.  1.  {Margin,)  Strong  imagination  called  conscience. — 4.  {ih.) 
Question. — 12.  and  23.  {ih.)  {oinitted.) 

285,  I.  20.  my  lyeff—mj  self. — 25.  so  say  you,  (quoth  the  Queen,) 
and  I  believe  it  hath  been  to  this  day.     (Quoth  he,)  for  how. 

286,  1.  7.  {Margin,)  Note  this. — 20.faileth  me:  and  this,  I  say,  with 
a  grieved  heart,  for  the  good  1  wish  unto  her,  and  by  her  to 
the  Church  and  State. — 22.  chosen,  where  were. — 24.  Lord 
James,  after  Earle  Murray ;  and  these  were  appointed  as  cer- 
tain to  wait. — 27.  Duck  D'Ome/l — Duke  D'Anville. 

287,  I.  4.  idolatrie — idolatrous  Masse.  F^re  followed  the  Court, 
commounlie.—l .  they  returned. — 8.  the  Queen  was  received. 

288,  1.  5.  {Margin,)  Note  the  disposition  of  a  misled  soul. 

289,  1.  9.  {Margi7i,)  Note  this  diligently. 

290,  {Both  marg'mal  notes  omitted.) — 11.  iniquitie,  Jessabellis  letter — 
impiety,  the  misled  Queen's  letter. — 16.  that  the  Queen's  un- 
reasonable will. — 19.  {Margin,)  Yet  in  the  Parliament  holden  in 
1563,  there  is  ane  express  Act  for  punishing  of  adultery  by 
death  :  It  is  the  Act  74. — 25.  fi-om  this  bondage  of  sin. 

291,  1.  2.  Queen  (evil  men  abusing  her  name  and  authority)  took 
upoun  hir. — 3.   Baalks — Balaam's. — 7.  {Margin,)  Note  this. 

292,  1.  26.  Liddisdaill,  except  that  execution  was  then  tnade  in  Edin- 
burgh, for  her  twenti/-aught. 

294,  1.  12.  sche  could  dissemble  in  full  perfection,  but  how  soon  that 
ever  the  French  people  had  her  alone,  they  told  her,  "  That 
since  she  came  to  Scotland,"  she  saw  nothing  there  but  graoitie 
which  repugned  altogether  to  her  breeding,  for. 

296,  1.  6.  {Margin,)  The  Queen  fain  would  have  all  Assemblies 
discharged. — 24.  {ib.)  Note  this  diligently. 

297,  1.  8,  9.  Quene  to — be  sent  to  her  Majestic,  if. — 14.  scripped 
at — stopped.  {Margin  as  at  296,  1.  24.) — 28.  dai/is,  the  hearers 
thereof  were  resolved,  as  all. — {Margin,)  Note  this  passage. 

298,  1.  4.  The  Baronis — Thomas  Borrows. — 7.  provisioun — proposi- 
tions.— 13.  But,  when. — 16,17.  intromited  and  middled  :  and 
so. — 19.  tcold  no  moir  cause  rents  to  be  paid  unto  any  that  for- 
merly belonged  to  the  Churchmen,  nor  suffer  any  thing  to  be 
collected  for  the  use  of  any  whosoever,  after  the  Quenis. 

299,  {The  date  of  the  Act,  vicesimo  ;  and  the  Sederunt  omitted.) 
300,1.   10.  the  rest  of  the  ^ioXes  mycht  have  appeared. — 23.  content 

with  the  two  partis  .  .  .  and  the  third  parte. 
301,  1.  3.   Ferd — fourth. — 8.  mair,  quhill — more,  if. 

VOL.  II.  2  0 


578  APPENDIX.  No.  I. 

304,  1.  21,  22.   Superintendentis,  overseers,  ministers. 

306,  1.  5.  mailles,  tythes,  or  teynds,  fermes  .  .  .  canis — fruits. — 
28.  furthcumand — forth  commanded. 

307,  (The  Sederunt  omitted.) — 11.  hir  Majestie's  present  wants,  and 
other  particular e. — 25.  thair  rentaUis,  whole  and  full,  intro- 
missioun. 

308,  1.  4.  fundin  and  dedarit — ordained  and  declared. — 33.  Elgin 
in  Murray — Elgmen,  Murray. 

309,  1.  10.  the  voting  and  maiking. — 17,  18.  (for)  the  Cleark  of  Re- 
gistre,  and  the  Secretar — the  Steward  and  Controller. 

311,  1.  6.  100  markis,  (Margin,)  That  is  five  old  pieces. — 10.  nygart- 
nesse — ingratitude, — 17,  18.  Comptrollare  .  .  .  his  awin — Con- 
trollers .  .  .  their  own. — 19.  (Margin,)  Ane  Proverb  upon  Pit- 
taro.  Controller. 

312,1.  16.  a  thoitsand  pound — a  hundred  will  suffice. — 23.  smyled — 
singled. — 29.  (Margin,)  The  right  that  Princes  have  to  the 
patrimony  of  the  Church. — 32.   Quenis  flatterers  bettir. 

313,  1.  5.  Queene,  and  her — Queene's. — 7.  ^wi  her  flatterers. — \Q.sche 
and  hir  faction — the  Court  faction. — 13.  Quene  and  King. 

314,  1.  1.  Earle  of  Murray. — 3.  At  the  blessing  of  the  marriage. — 
(Margin,)  Marriage  of  the  Earl  of  Murray, 

315,  1.  13.  who  was  suspected  to  have  been  in  love  with  the  said 
Alison. — 14.  7-aritie — veritie. 

316,  1.  21.  317,  1.  10.  (Margin,)  Note  this  diligently. 

318,  1.  3,  4.  for  sche  lacks  ...  in  especiall,  (omitted.) — 10.  others — 
Scotland. — is  free — she  did  see  so  free. 

319,  1.  15,  22.  joyousitie^oWiij.  It  had  been  good  for  our  Queene 
that  she  had  been  brought  up  in  better  company,  both  for  her 
credit  and  for  the  course  of  her  life  :  And  it  may  be,  that  her 
excellent  naturaU  endowments  had  been  better  employed  for 
her  reputation  and  happinesse  then  they  were  to  her  gi-eat 
misfortune,  and  to  the  grief  of  those  that  wished  her  truely  well. 
But  punishment,  &c. — (Both  marginal  notes  in  this  place 
omitted.) — 25  to  320,1.  1.  Some  .  .  .  lamented,  (omitted.) 

320,  1.  15,  16.  Erie  Bothwell  and  his  son,  that. 

321,  1.  6,  7.  but  as  hap  ....  keapthim,  (omitted.) — 10.  The  Master 
of  Maxwell,  (after  Lord  Herreis)  gave. 

322,  1.  12.  convened — remained. 

323,  1.  3.  (Margin,)  The  Earl  of  Bothwell's  communication  with  John 
Knox,  1562. — 25.  my  great  grandfather,  grandfather — and 
father. — (Margin,)  Note  the  comphment. 


No.  I.  APPENDIX.  579 

324:,  1.  7,  8.  of  God,  wherefore  he  often. — 12.  {Margin^)   Note  dili- 
gently.— 21.  commonyng — coming. — 23.    Borthieick — Berwicke. 
325,  1.  3.  certane — vertue. — 8.    Gavin — Gabriel. 
326, 1.  6.  Gawane — Gabriel. — 7.  KynneUl — Enmell. — 11.  upon  the 

third  (^/ay. — 19.  reasonably  betrayed. 
327,  1.  8.  (Margin,)  Note  diligently.— 24.  (line  omitted.) 

330,  1.  10.  dansing — mirth. — 14.  Quenne  had  been  merry,  excessively 
dancing  till  aftei\ — 15.  perseciitioun — pacification. 

331,  1.  21.  {Margin,)  Note  diligently. 

333,  1.  19,  22.  {Margin,)  Note  diligently. 

334,  1.  4.  (M«!?-^«??,)  Let  Princes  note  this.— 24.  {Margin,)  Let  Court 
chaplains  and  unthrifts  of  the  time  note  this. 

335,  1.  20  to  336,  1.  3.  liked  not  our  Queene  one  whit,  for  as  yet 
she  could  not  resolve  to  be  wife  to  the  King  of  Sweden,  having 
been  lately  Queene  of  France :  And  yet  she  refused  not  one 
much  inferiour  to  a  Soveraigne  King. 

336,  I.  4.  {Margin,)  The  Earle  of  Lennox  and  his  lady  imprisoned  in 
the  Tower  of  London  for  traflBquing  with  Papists. 

337,  {Margin,)  Anno  1566  in  Maij,  {omitted.) 

338,  1.  5,  6.  From  the  Father.— 8,  9.  by  the  Eternall  God,  {omitted.) 
— 25.  atzd  base  service. — 31.    Word  and,  {omitted.) 

339,  1.  11.  and  body,  if  you  do  not  repent, 

340,  1.  2.  for  lack  of  punishment,  (omitted.) — (Marginal  note  omitted.) 
— 15.  neglecting  the  execution  of  his. — 20-  (Margin,)  Note  dili- 
gently.— 23,  24.  pay  their  hii-e,  that. 

341,  1.  19,  20.  that  some  .  .  .  releaf  and,  (omitted.) 

342,1.17.  La5<— Sixthly.— 22.  ^evexiihlj,  we  desire. — 33.  Farther, 

we  most — Eightly,  we  most. 
343,  1.  8.  dyttament — -judgment. — 15.  (Margin,)  Note  that  diligently. 

— 20.  (Margin,)  Note  this  for  our  times. 
344, 1.  31.  and  wemen,  (omitted.) 

345,  1.  8,  9.  hurt,  and  was  for  a  long  time  mutilat. 

346,  1.  2,  18.  broke  the  prison. — (Margin,)  ward  or  prison. 

347,  1.  10.  (Buchanan  substitutes  for  the  note)— l^oiQ  another  waver- 
ing of  the  Hamiltons. — 21.  (Ma)-gin,)  Commissionaris,  (omitted.) 

348,  1.  3.  (Margin,)  A  new  Covenant  1562. — 6.  and  assist,  (omitted.) 
— 7.  offered  and  granted  unto. — 21.  Erratum  1552. 

352,  (Marginal  note  omitted.) 

353,  1.  25.  malice — matter. 

354,  1.  6.  inflammed — angred. — 11.  sone  to  James. — 12.  of  soldartis, 
(omitted.)— (Margin,)  theday  ofCorrichie-field,  Octob.  22.  1562. 


580  APPENDIX.  No.  I. 

355, 1.  9.  houris  in  the  morning. 

356,  1.  5.  foote  and  maid. — 10.  {Marginal  note  omitted.) — 16,  17. 
keapt  thame  .  .  .  The  Erie,  {omitted.) — {Margin,)  at  Corrickie, 
{omitted.) 

357,  1.  2.  this  day,  {omitted.) — 3,  4.  injustlie — justlie. — 5.  on  the 
sweird. — 9.  joyned — rejoyned. — 15.  ney,  {omitted.) — 21.  over- 
thorte  or  upon  a  pair. — {Marginal  note  omitted.) 

358,1.3.  {Note  taken  into  the  text.) — 11,12.  against plainess, 

{omitted.) — 29.  {Margin,)  Let  others  that  yet  live  mark  this. 

361,  1.  2.  unhappilie — truely. — 14.  tacken  upon  me  the. 

362,  1.  6.  {Margin,)  Upon  the  Courteouris. — 18.  Like  MS.  G,  in 
footnote. 

863,  1.  1.  {Marginal  note  altered,)  The  end  declared  their  words  to  be 
true. — 22.  youth  amongst  them,  whom. 

364,  1.  25.  {Margin,)  The  tryall  of  Paul  Meffene's  fact. 

365,  1.  6.  oppressed — suppressed. — 30.  {Marghial  note  omitted.) 

366,  1.  6.  Edinburgh— Dm-iikiQ. 

367,  1.  1.  light  and  darknes  bettvix,  {omitted.) 

368,  1.  3,  4.  fassionis  not  agreeable  to  the  gravity  o(  honest  women. — 
7  to  13.  All  this  winter  Chattelett  was  so  familiar  with  the  Queen, 
that  the  Nobilitie  being  by  this  means  stopped  to  have  so  free 
accesse  as  they  thought  fit  and  due  unto  them,  were  highly 
offended;  at  length  Chattelett  having  conveyed  himselfe  pri- 
vately under  the  Quenis  bed. — 30.  lyeth  in  me  to  give  your 
Majestie  content. 

369,  1.  13.  luvaris  may  devine — I  leave  to  conjecture. — 18.  {Ma)-gin,) 
death  and  famine. — 22  to  370,  1.  1.  the  famyn  in  the  wheat, 
the  beare  or  barley,  the  meale,  the  oates,  beefe,  mutton,  &c., 
were  exceeding  dear  and  scanty ;  yea,  all  things. 

370,  1.  4,  5.  wicked  rulers. — suffered  Mr — suffered  them. — 8.  cowt — 
city — that  wicked  ivoman — the  prophane  Court. — 14.  {Note 
omitted.) 

371,  1.  18.  of  God,  {omitted.)— 20,  21.  the  Quene — the  Court  sAe,  they. 
— 22.  she  send  for  Johne — the  Queen  advised  to  send. 

372,  1.  24-27.  And  in  this  case — unpunissed,  {omitted.) — 34.  and  that 
not,  but  in  God  ye  are  bound. 

374,  1.  23.  {Margin,)  Bishop  of  Cathnes. 

375,  1.  13.  {Margin,)  The  Lady  Argile  was  naturall  Sister  to  the 
Queen,  as  the  Earle  Murray  was  naturall  Brother. 

377,  {After  the  7th,  insert)  My  Lord. — 17.  withdraw  your  conversa- 
tion/rom  hir. — 21.  unto  hir  in  all  due  benevolence. 


No.  I.  APPENDIX.  581 

378,  I.  9.  convict  Mr  of  any  fault  since. 

379,  1.  9.  the  Parliament  of  Pope's  knights  appeared.  The,  &c. — 
16.  unfreindis — friends.— 19.  {Margin,)  The  Clergie  did  pretend 
to  be  free  from  all  Jurisdiction,  save  the  Popes. 

380,  1.  1.  Norivell—B.OY\NQ\\.— {Marginal  note  omitted.)—^,  9.  paren- 
thesis, {omitted.) — 13.  gioun.  At  that  Parliament,  {new  para- 
graph^ 

381,  1.  3.  Lairdis — Earles. — 5.  law  or  Counsellor. — 5-7.  in  that  .  .  . 
Whytlaw,  {omitted.) — 12.  {Mai^ginal  note  omitted.) — IG.  ^Ae  super- 
fluities of  their  cloathes,  and. 

382,  1.  1.  {Margin,)  Note  diligently.  And  so  was  religion,  &c. — 8. 
{Margin,)  Occasion  painted  with  a  bald  hind-head. — 27.  long  to. 

383,  1.  7.  betwix  .  .  .  Knox — betwixt  them. — 11.  slocken — slacken. 
— 11.  {Margin,)  God  knowes  if  our  times  be  better. 

384,  1.  2.  {Marginal  note  omitted.) — 21.  the  charges  of  Edinburgh. 

385,  1.  3.  Queen  sayes  you  loill  not  agree  loith  us. — 6.  ivith  them  in. — 
27.  But  this  my  Lordis  will  (I  say)  note. 

387,  {The  marginal  notes  omitted.) 

388,  1.  4.  {Margin,)  Let  this  serve  for  our  times. — 17.  conscience — 
office. — 20.  shallhe  content, and  consent. — unfaythfull — unlawfuU. 

389,  {Margin,)  Note  women. 

390,  1.  4.  fard — heat. — 6.  {Marginal  note  omitted.) 

391,  1.  14.   {Marginal  note  omitted.) — 22.   {ih.)  Note  diligently. 

392,  1.  8.  wickedness— iuT J,  {cdso,  393,  1.  5.)— 18.  thair  .  .  .  throttes 
.  .  .  mouthes — his  .  .  .  throat  .  .  .  mouth. 

394, 1.  19.  hamesukken — having  made. 

395,  {2d  marginal  note,)  quMngar — weapon. 

396,  1.  2.  15^^ — five  and  twentieth. — 23.  Messe,  publikely  to. 

397,  1.  3.  he  made  to  the  country,  and  that. — 7.  {Margin,)  Bond  to  a 
rautuall  defence  in  the  cause  of  Religion. — {The  note  is  omitted.) 

39 8 J 1.  8.  {Margin,)  Note  Pastors. 

399,  {In  the  foot-note  to  line  12,  Buchanan  agrees  ivithMS.  G.  Instead 
of  the  2d  marginal  note,  he  adds  to  the  \st,  "  and  their  reasoning 
together.") 

400,  1.  2.  day,  {omitted.) 

401,  {2d  marginal  note  omitted.) 

402,  1.  19.   {Margin,)  Note  a  wise  reply. — 29.  trouble  me. 

403,  1.  8.  noumer — number. 

404,  1.  5.  lachit  nathing  of  an  womanhj  gravitie. — 11.  caused  me  to 
crie,  and  shed  ??et'e?'. — 12.  greit — grieve. 

405,  1.  23,  25,  27,  32.  convocation — vocation. 


582  APPENDIX.  No.  I. 

406,  1.  5.  (Margin,)  Note  diligently. — 23.  unlauchfull—lavfiuW. 

408,  1.  1.  (Margin,)  As  the  Irish  Papists  have  clone  to  Protestants  in 
Ireland. — 13.  (Margin,)  Let  this  be  noted  for  this  day. — 28. 
ane  liar  and,  (omitted.) — 32,  33.  /  am  commanded  in  my  con- 
science to  speak  the  truth,  and  therefore  the  truth  I  speak,  iin- 
pugne. 

409,  (Margin,)  quhat,  ensued. — 11,  12.  and  conjureit  ....  Ch7'isf, 
(omitted.) — sm,yleit — singled. 

410,  1.  2.  (Margin,)  Note  Pastors.— 5.  onie  npfall,  (omitted.)— 20-22. 
to  see  .  .  .  rejoise,  (omitted.) 

411,  1.  19.  (Margin,)  Note  diligently. 

412,  1,  17.  (Margin,)  Note  the  craft  of  the  Court. — 24.  (Note  taken 
into  the  text.) — 27.  (Marginal  note  omitted.) 

413,  1.  5,  6.  but  of  .  .  .  Borrowis,  (omitted.) — 18.  (Margin,)  Note. 

414,  1.  10.  als — all. — haif  power  to. — 23.  Sir  Johne  Ballentyne., 
(omitted. 

415, 1.  5.  (Margin,)  Remark  false  brethren. — (ib.)  Sempill  and Levings- 
toun,  (omitted.) 

417,  1.  1.  delyver  us  from  the  wickedness  of  this  corrupt  Court,  for 
thy  own  name's  sake. — (Margin,)  Prayit  .  .  .  authoritie,  (omitted.) 
— 10-12.  And  .  .  .  hoiiris — (this  sentence  is  nearly  repeated  on 
margin.) — 20.  the  suspitioune  of,  (omitted.) — (The  three  last  mar- 
ginal notes  omitted.) 

418,  1.  20.  sik,  him. — Nobill-ivemin — Nobleman. — 23.  coule — kowll. — 
(Margin,)  Cucullus. — 29.  (Marginal  note  omitted.) 

420,  1.  1.  (iV/ar^m,)  Note  how  this  agrees  with  our  time. — 25.  Papists 
— Priests. 

421,  (Buchanan  has  the  marginal  notes  mentioned  in  last  foot-note.) 

422,  1.  1.  began  one  David,  an  Italian,  to. — 3.  in  France,  (omitted.) — 
5,  6.  to  speik,  and  refer  it  to  another  fitter  occasion  of  time  and 
place,  becaus  .  .  .  whole.  The  first  day. — (Clause  in  brackets 
and  marginal  note  omitted.) 

423, 1.  9.  Rothes~LoYi}i  Rosse. 

424,  1.  10-14.  but,  because  .  .  .  .  publict  audieiice,  (omitted.) — 25,  26. 
(By  a  semicolon  misplaced.  Hay  appears  as  Superintendent  of  Glas- 
gow instead  of  Willok.) 

425,  1.  23.   (Margin,)  John  Knox  his  answer. 

427,  1.  17,  24.  (Margin,)  Note  diligently,  and  see  how  the  Bishops 
did  forbid  to  pray  for  the  conversion  of  the  Queen  that  now  is 
in  Britain. 

435, 1.  2.  present — publike. 


No.  I.  APPENDIX.  583 

436,1.   6.   {Margin,)  Let  this  be  noted  diligently. — 9.  [the  poiveris,'] 

{omitted.) 
437,  1.  1.  {Margin,)  Note  this.— 23.  {ib.)  Note  this  Discourse  dili- 
gently. 
438, 1.  7.  nocht,  {omitted.) 

439,  1.  24.  but,  {omitted.) 

440,  1.  3.  {Margin,)  God  craves  of  us,  that  we  oppose  ourselves  to 
iniquity. 

441,  1.  4-7.  unless  that  .  .  .  thedeith,  {omitted.) 

442,  1.  13.   tuik—thm^. 

443,  1.  9.  {Margin,)  Let  this  be  noted  for  our  times. — 34.  acknawlege 
and  esteem  the  benefits  received,  when. 

444,  1.  9.  {Margin,)  Whether  this  hath  come  to  passe  or  not,  let  the 
vi^orld  judge. 

445,  1.  8.  {Margin,)  Note  this  diligently. 

447,  1.  13.  "  He  he  his  awin  commandment,"  &c.  Beticeen  these  words 
and  ^^sik  as  craif,"  &c.,  448, 1.  13,  a  whole  page  is  omitted. — Thus 
the  passage  in  Buchanan's  edition  is  quite  unintelliyible,  viz..  He 
by  his  own  word  confounds  all  such  as  crave  further  approba- 
tion of  God's  will,  &c. 

449,  1.  3.  {Margin.)  When  the  Prince  does  serve  God  sincerely  in 
private  and  publike,  and  hath  a  care  that  the  people  do  the  same, 
then  assuredly  they  are  faithfull  to  him  :  but  if  he  faile  in  these, 
or  in  either  of  them,  he  findes  disobedience  in  his  people,  because 
he  is  not  carefull  to  obey  God,  and  to  see  him  obeyed.  Deut. 
13,  13.  2  Paral.  26.-24.  {Margin,)  Let  this  be  applyed  to  the 
late  affairs  of  Scotland. 

451,  1.  15.  ye  loill  not  say. 

452,  1.  24.  deith — punishment. — 33.  thairintill — therefore. 

453,  1.  22.  either  misknaw — must  either  know. — 29.  tyrant— misled 
King. 

454, 1,  1.  scripped — stouped. 

455, 1.  10.  voit — wrote.  {To  each  of  the  two  names  in  the  margin  of 
pages  455  and  456,  is  added)  his  vote. 

457,  {The  Latin  original  of  the  Conclusio,  omitted.) — 13.  deposed— 
bridled.— afeo  458,  1.  12. 

458,  1.  23.  {Buchanan  agrees  with  second  foot-note.) — 10.  {Margin,) 
Note  diligently. — also  459,  1.  3. 

460,  1.  19.  be  knawin — he  knew. 

461,  1.  17.  {In  the  second  foot-note  Buchanan  agrees  with  MS.  L,  4. 
Marginal  note  omitted.) 


584  APPENDIX.  No.  I. 


A  few  particulars  respecting  David  Buchanan,  the  Editor  of  Knox's 
History,  may  be  subjoined  to  the  preceding  collations.  The  author 
of  the  Genealogical  Account  of  the  Buchanans,  in  1723,  states  that 
he  was  the  second  son  of  William  [John]  Buchanan  of  Arnpryor, 
an  ancient  family  in  the  parish  of  Kippen,  Stirlingshire.  John 
Buchanan,  eldest  son  of  the  late  John  Buchanan  of  Arnpryor,  had 
a  charter  of  the  lands  of  Arnpryor,  3d  May  1598  ;  and  having  sold 
the  estate  of  Arnpryor  to  Sir  John  Buchanan  of  Buchanan,  he  settled 
in  Ireland.  He  was  killed  by  the  Irish  rebels  in  1 641.  "  There  was  a 
younger  brother,  Captain  William,  a  gentleman  of  very  much  courage, 
and  of  the  greatest  art  and  dexterity  in  managing  a  sword  of  any 
of  his  time  ;"  and  two  instances  of  his  prowess  are  related  in  that 
work,  (p.  61.) 

David  Buchanan,  whom  the  above  author  describes  as  "  a  gentle- 
man of  great  learning,  who  flourished  in  the  latter  part  of  the  reign 
of  James  the  Sixth,"  was  born  towards  the  close  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury, probably  about  the  year  1592.  He  appears  to  have  prosecuted 
his  studies  during  part  of  the  usual  course  in  St.  Leonard's  College, 
St.  Andrews,  where  he  matriculated  or  became  an  Intrant  in  the 
spring  of  1610.  It  has  not  been  ascertained  at  what  University  he 
took  his  degree  of  Master  of  Arts  ;  or,  indeed,  any  particulars  of  his 
mode  of  life  for  a  period  of  upwards  of  twenty  years.  According  to 
his  own  words,  he  must  have  spent  many  years  on  the  Continent,  and 
is  not  improbable  he  may  have  filled  a  Professor's  chair  in  one  of 
the  Protestant  Colleges  in  France.  In  1636,  he  published  a  learned 
work  under  this  title  :  "  Historia  Animaj  Humana^,  Auctore  Davide 
Buchanano,  Scoto.  (No  place  of  printing,)  m.dc.xxxvi."  Small  8vo. 
This  was  followed  by  a  similar  treatise  in  French,  entitled  "  Histoire 
de  la  Conscience,     m.dc.xxxviii."  12mo. 

From  a  passage  in  Milton  already  refen-ed  to,  (vol.  i.  p.  xlii,)  it 
would  seem  as  if  the  publication  of  Buchanan's  edition  of  Knox's 
History  of  the  Reformation  had  been  delayed  by  the  Censor  of  the 
Press  in  1644.  The  preceding  collations,  (for  which,  and  also  for 
those  in  the  next  Article  of  this  Appendix,  I  am  indebted  to  the  un- 
wearied care  and  accuracy  of  my  venerable  friend,  Mk.  Meek,)  serve 
to  show  the  actual  liberties  Buclianan  has  taken  with  the  text.  Fre- 
(pient  instances  of  palpable  blunders  will  be  observed,  as  if  the 
Editor  himself  had  not  corrected  the  proof-sheets.     In  the  marginal 


n 


No.  I.  APPENDIX.  585 

notes  he  has  added  various  allusions  to  his  own  times ;  and  the  inter- 
polations he  has  introduced  into  the  text  are  remarkable,  chiefly 
on  account  of  the  anachronisms  ;  and  as  these  have  been  laid  hold  of, 
in  some  measure,  to  discredit  the  authenticity  of  the  original  work, 
it  has  thus  been  rendered  necessary  to  take  so  much  pains  in  col- 
lating his  editions  with  the  genuine  text.  In  regard  to  passages 
omitted,  or  expressions  modified  and  softened,  it  is  highly  probable 
that  this  may  have  proceeded  from  the  Licenser  of  the  Press  in 
London,  raiher  than  Buchanan  himself;  and  whether  similar  or  even 
gi-eater  hberties  may  have  been  taken  with  Book  Fifth,  we  have 
unfortunately  no  means  of  ascertaining. 

In  the  following  year  Buchanan  published  at  London  a  little 
volume,  which,  with  another  tract  printed  in  164G,  involved  him  in 
some  trouble.  Baillie,  who  was  personally  acquainted  with  him,  in 
a  letter  to  Spang,  who  was  then  Minister  of  Campvere  in  Zealand, 
in  June  1645,  speaks  of  "  your  cousigne,  INIi'.  David  Buchanan,  as 
a  most  honest  and  worthy  man."  In  a  subsequent  letter,  dated  24th 
April  1646,  he  says,  it  was  thought  necessary  that  the  Papers  given 
into  Parliament  by  the  Scottish  Commissioners  should  be  printed ; 
and  "  among  others,  Mr.  Dayid  Buchanan,  a  most  sincere  and  zealous 
gentleman,  luho  has  done  both  in  write  and  prints  here  (in  London)  and 
over-sea,  many  singular  services  to  this  Parliament,  to  his  Nation,  and  to 
theivhole  Cause;  .  .  .  hazarded  to  print  them  with  a  Preface  of  his 
own,  and  an  introduction,  both  very  harmless  and  consonant  to  the 
three  following  papers  which  we  had  given  in  to  both  Houses." 
Baillie  further  adds,  that  within  two  or  three  days,  3000  or  4000 
copies  were  sold  ;  and  that  this  having  excited  the  indignation  of 
"  our  small  friends,"  both  Houses  of  Parliament  agreed  in  ordering 
the  books  to  be  burnt  by  the  hands  of  the  hangman,  and  in  denoun- 
cing the  publisher,  Mr.  Buchanan,  as  an  incendiary.  (Baillie's  Letters 
and  Journals,  vol.  ii.  p.  367.)  The  two  publications  thus  referred 
to  were, — 

"  Truth  its  Manifest ;  or  a  short  and  true  Relation  of  divers  main 
Passages  of  things,  (in  some  whereof  the  Scots  are  particularly  con- 
cerned,) from  the  very  first  beginning  of  these  unhappy  Troubles  to 
this  day.  Published  by  Authority.  London,  printed  in  the  year 
1645."     12mo,  pp.  xviii.,  142. 

"  Some  Papers  of  the  Commissioners  of  Scotland,  given  in  lately 
to  the  Houses  of  Parliament,  concerning  the  Propositions  of  Peace. 
London,  printed  for  Robert  Bostock,  &c.,  April  11,  1646."  4to, 
PI'.  2(0. 


586  APPENDIX.  No.  I. 

The  following  extracts  from  the  Journals  of  the  House  of  Commons 
confirm  Baillie's  statements  : — 

On  the  10th  Api'il  1646,  the  House  of  Commons  "  Ordered,  &c., 
That  the  Report  concerning  a  Book,  entituled,  '  Truth's  Manifest,'  be 
made  on  Monday  morning,"  &c.     (Journals,  vol.  iv.  p.  505.) 

"Die  Lunae,  13°  Aprilis  1646.  Mr.  Lisle  reports  the  state  of  the 
business  concerning  the  printed  book,  intituled,  '  Truth's  Manifest ;' 
read  many  passages  out  of  it ;  and  said.  The  Author  of  it  was  one 
Mr.  Buchanan  ;  who  delivered  one  of  the  said  books  to  the  Com- 
mittee, and  did  avow  it  to  be  his  writing. 

"  Resolved,  &c.,  That  Mr.  David  Buchanan  be  forthwith  sent  for, 
as  a  Delinquent,  by  the  Serjeant  at  Arms  attending  on  this  House ; 
and  brought  to  the  Bar  to-morrow  morning. 

"  Resolved,  &c..  That  the  book  intituled,  '  Truth's  Manifest,'  does 
contain  in  it  many  matters  false  and  scandalous ;  and  they  do  Order, 
That  the  said  book  be  forthwith  burnt  by  the  hands  of  the  common 
hangman."     (ib.  p.  507.) 

On  the  same  day,  the  House  also  declared,  that  the  book  entituled, 
"  Some  Papers  of  the  Commissioners  of  Scotland,  given  in  lately  to 
the  Houses  of  Parliament,  concerning  the  Propositions  of  Peace,  doth 
contain  in  it  matters  scandalous  and  false,"  &c.,  and  was  Ordered 
to  be  burnt,  «fec.  (ib.  p.  507.)  But  this  declaration  was  so  far  modi- 
fied on  the  20th  April,  in  restricting  the  sentence  simply  to  the 
Editor's  Epistle  and  Tract,  "  The  State  of  the  Question  concerning 
the  Propositions  of  Peace,"  (which  are  prefixed  by  the  Editor,  on 
three  leaves,  after  the  title  page.)     (ib.  p.  517.) 

During  the  latter  period  of  his  life,  Buchanan  was  engaged  with 
Gordon  of  Straloch  in  illustrating  the  topography  and  antiquities  of 
his  native  country,  in  connexion  with  the  great  Atlas  of  Scotland, 
which  was  published  in  Holland,  by  Bleau,  in  1654.  His  papers 
afterwards  fell  into  the  hands  of  Sir  Robert  Sibbald,  by  whom  some 
of  them  were  printed.  Two  MS.  works,  "  De  Scriptoribus  Scotis," 
the  one  dated  1627,  and  attributed  to  Buchanan,  were  printed  for  the 
Members  of  the  Bannatyne  Club,  with  a  learned  Preface  by  the 
Editor,  Dr.  Irving,  in  1837. 

From  his  Confirmed  Testament,  it.  appears  that  "  Mr.  David 
Buchanan,"  who  died  at  Edinburgh  before  the  end  of  August  1652, 
on  the  19th  of  that  month,  had  nominated  "  his  loving  brother, 
Mr.  William  Buchanan,"  his  only  executor.  Whether  "  Captain 
William,"  above  mentioned  as  David's  brother,  .should  be  identified 
with  this  "  Mr.  William  Buchanan,"  may  be  left  to  conjecture. 


No.  II.  APPENDIX.  587 

No.  II. 
ON  SPOTTISWOOD'S  EDITION  OF  THE  FIRST  BOOK  OF  DISCIPLINE. 

It  is  well  known  that  Queen  Mary,  both  in  France  and  after  her 
return  to  this  country,  refused  to  ratify  the  Proceedings  of  the  Parija- 
MENT  which  met  at  Edinburgh  in  August  1560;  and  its  Acts  were 
not  included  in  the  authorized  collection  of  the  public  statutes.  In 
order  to  obviate  this  legal  want  of  the  royal  sanction,  it  was  judged 
expedient  that  the  Confession  of  Faith,  and  some  special  Acts, 
should  be  renewed  in  the  first  Parliament  of  James  the  Sixth,  during 
the  regency  of  the  Earl  of  Murray,  in  December  1567.  It  was  pro- 
posed to  have  inserted  in  this  Appendix  a  list  of  the  Members  and 
some  passages  relating  to  the  proceedings  of  that  Parliament,  along 
with  an  account  of  the  early  editions  of  the  Confession  of  Faith, 
1560;  and  some  notes  respecting  the  First  Book  of  Discipline.  "Want 
of  space  has  rendered  it  necessai'y  to  omit  these  notices  ;  but  another 
opportunity  may  be  afforded  of  introducing  them  in  a  subsequent 
volume. 

It  is  also  well  known  that  the  selfish  rapacity  of  some  of  the 
Nobility  who  had  supported  the  Reformed  doctrines,  and  had  ob- 
tained possession  of  Church-lands  and  property,  pi'evented  the  Policy 
of  the  Kirk  from  being  established  according  to  the  plan  drawn 
up  by  Knox  and  his  brethren.  But  the  First  Book  op  Discip- 
line must  always  be  regarded  as  an  important  work  to  illustrate 
the  form  of  Church  government  and  discipline  submitted  for  ap- 
proval by  our  early  Reformers ;  and  it  is  now  presented  to  the 
Reader  in  a  much  more  perfect  and  authentic  form  than  it  has  ever 
appeared. 

The  following  notes,  selected  from  a  careful  collation  of  the  Book 
of  Discipline,  with  the  copy  inserted  by  Spottiswood  in  his  His- 
tory of  the  Church,  will  prove  how  very  little  reliance  can  be 
placed  on  the  Archbishop's  assertion  of  his  having  given  it  "  word 
by  word."  As  the  omissions  and  emendations  referred  to  might 
have  been  made  by  the  Editor  in  1655,  (see  page  181,  note  5,) 
the  new  edition,  printing  for  the  Spottiswoode  Society,  (edited  by 
Bishop  Russell,  and  collated  with  the  author's  original  MS.,)  has 
been  employed. 


588  APPENDIX.  No.  II. 

Page  183-184,  Spottiswood  omits  the  whole  of  the  Preface,  and 
inti-oduces  the  Book  of  Discipline  with  the  short  paragraph 
already  quoted  at  page  181,  note  5.  There  is  a  slight  vai'iation 
in  the  new  edit.  (p.  331,)  reading,  "  I  have  thought  meet, 
word  by  word,  to  insert  the  same,"  &c. 

187,  There  are  several  omissions  in  this  page;  for  instance,  in 
line  7,  the  words  "  devysed  by  men  ;"  various  words  in  lines 
15  to  22  ;  and  nearly  the  whole  of  lines  24  to  26. 

188,  lines  21,  22,  altered ;  and  lines  24  to  29  abridged. 

189,  1.  10,  omits  "  cursed"  as  applied  to  "  Papistrie." 

190,  1.  12,  reads,  "  in  open  audience  of  his  flock,  he  may  preach  and 
deliver  his  knowledge  in  the  Articles,"  &c. 

192,  1.  4  to  6,  "  and  so  .  .  .  of  the  Kirk,"  omitted. 

193,  1.  4  to  19,  varied  and  abridged;  and  lines  25,  26,  read,  "  The 
Ministers  were  publicly  admitted." 

195,  1.  14,  altered;  and  hues  24  to  27,  "  And  gif,"&c., omitted.  The 
next  head,  "  For  Readeris,"  is  partially  abridged. 

198, 1.  1,  the  words,  "  at  the  discretion  of  the  congregation,"  omitted. 

199,1.3,  the  words,  "in  Goddis  presence  we  witness,"  omitted; 
and  lines  7  to  15  amended. 

200,  1.  12  to  14,  part  of  the  sentence  omitted;  and  the  paragraph 
that  follows,  "  Restis  yit,"  &c.  concerning  provision  for  the  poor, 
and  the  teachers  of  youth,  contracted  to  about  one-third, 

201  to  203,  Under  the  head,  "Off  the  Superintendents,"  the  original 
which  here  consists  of  38  lines,  is  contracted  by  Spottiswood 
to  6  lines. 

204,  1.  11,  "  to  leave  as  your  idill  Bischopis,"  changed  to  "  to  live 
idle  as  the  Bishops." 

205,  The  third  head,  "  Of  the  Election  of  Superintendentis,"  appears 
as  if  re- written  and  abridged  ;  1.  18,  reads,  "  we  think  it  suffi- 
cient that  the  Council  nominate  ;"  and  lines  22  to  25  omitted. 

207,  1.  6  to  12,  "  Yff  the  Ministeris,"  &c.,  omitted.  . 

208,  1.  16  to  26,  "Of  one  thing,  in  the  end,"  &c.,  omitted. 

208,  209,   "  For  the  Schollis ;"  the  introductory  paragraph  omitted, 

and  the  next  14  lines  contracted  to  5  lines. 
214,  1.  24,  reads,  "  New  Testament,  and  shall  finish  his  course  the 

same  year.     And  in,"  &c. 
221, 1.  2  to  12,  "  not  doubting,"  &c.,  omitted.     Under  the  "  Sext 

Heid,"  except  the  first  sentence,  the  whole  of  the  first  para- 

gi'apb,  "  But  befoir  we  enter,"  &c.,  is  omitted. 
222, 1.  4  to  9,  "  We  dar  not  flatter,"  &c.,  omitted. 


No.  II.  APPENDIX.  589 

223,  1.  27,  &c.  "  Your  Honouris,"  &c. ;  the  whole  of  thi.s  paragraph 
omitted. 

225,  1.  13,  The  "  Additio"  is  not  found  in  Spottiswood. 

226,  1.  23,  "  Yf  this  Ordour,"  &c.,  to  the  end  of  the  paragraph, 
omitted. 

227,  The  second  paragraph,  "  But  becaus  this  accursit  Papistrie," 
&c.,  omitted. 

230,  1.  21  to  23,  Spottiswood  reads,  "  This  sentence,  as  being  the  most 
heavy  censure  which  can  be  inflicted  by  the  Church,  ought  not 
to  be  rashly  used  but  for  gi'ave  causes,  and  due  process  of  time 
kept,  but  being  pronounced,  ought  with  all  severity  to  be  main- 
tained, and  intimation  thereof  made  through  the  whole  I'ealm, 
lest  any  should  pretend  ignorance  of  the  same." 

235, 1.  3  to  18,  "Yea,  the  Seniouris,"  &c.  This  paragraph  is  thus 
altered  :  "  If  a  Minister  be  of  a  loose  conversation,  negligent  in 
his  study,  and  one  that  was  little  bent  upon  his  charge  or  flock, 
or  one  that  proponeth  not  fruitful  doctrine  to  his  people,  he 
ought  to  be  admonished  by  the  elders  ;  and  if  he  amend  not,  the 
elders  may  complain  to  the  ministry  [of  the  two  next  adjacent 
churches,  to  whose  admonition,  if  he  shall  be  disobedient,  he 
ought  to  be  discharged  of  his  ministry]  till  his  repentance  appear." 
The  words  enclosed  -within  brackets  are  omitted  in  the  old 
printed  editions  of  Spottiswood's  History,  we  may  suppose  by 
accident,  as  this  appears  to  be  the  only  variation  which  Bishop 
Russell  has  discovered  upon  collation  with  the  MSS. 

253,  A  great  part  of  this  page  is  omitted. 

255,  The  last  paragraph  is  somewhat  altered,  or  at  least  transposed. 

255-8,  "  The  Conclusioun"  addressed  to  the  Lords,  with  the  "  Act  of 
Secret  Counsall,"  and  the  signatures,  are  wholly  omitted. 

A  gi-eat  many  lesser  variations,  consisting  of  words  omitted,  sen- 
tences abridged,  &c.,  might  have  been  specified,  if  such  an  enumera- 
tion would  have  served  any  useful  purpose.  The  above  may  sufiice  to 
satisfy  any  impartial  reader,  who  desires  in  this  FoRii  OF  Policy 
"  to  see  what  were  the  grounds  laid  down  at  first  for  the  government 
of  the  Church,"  that  implicit  reliance  should  not  be  placed  upon  the 
Archbisliop's  fidelity,   although  he  does  affirm,  "  I  have  thought 

IMEET,  WORD  BY  WORD,  HERE  TO   INSERT  THE  SA3IE."       (HistOry,  vol.  i. 

p.  331.) 


590  APPENDIX.  No.  III. 


No.  III. 
FUNERALS  OF  MARY  OF  GUISE,  QUEEN  REGENT  OF  SCOTLAND. 

Marie  de  Lorraine,  daughter  of  Claude  Duke  of  Guise,  was 
born  22d  November  lolo.  On  the  4th  August  1534,  she  was  mar- 
ried to  Louis  of  Orleans,  Duke  de  Longueville  ;  and  after  his  death, 
in  1538,  she  became  the  second  wife  of  James  the  Fifth,  King  of 
Scotland.  (See  vol.  i.  p.  61,  note  6.)  In  this  place  it  was  proposed 
to  collect  merely  a  few  notices  respecting  her  death  and  funei'als. 

In  the  present  volume,  at  page  71,  Knox  has  given  an  account  of 
the  Queen's  death,  which  took  place  in  the  Castle  of  Edinburgh — he 
says  on  the  9th  June  1560.  Dr.  Robertson  following  Bishop  Lesley, 
and  other  early  authorities,  says  it  was  on  the  10th  ;  while  according 
to  Chalmers,  and  later  writers,  it  happened  on  the  11th  June.  In 
the  Diurnal  of  Occurrents  the  time  is  very  precisely  stated,  yet  it  so 
happens  that  either  the  10th  or  the  11th  might  be  assigned  for  the 
date.     The  passage  stands  thus  : — 

"  Upoun  the  tent  day  of  Junij,  the  yeir  foirsaid  (1560,)  Marie 
Quene  Dowriare  and  Regent  of  this  Realme,  at  12  houris  at  evin,  de- 
ceissit  in  the  Castell  of  Edinburgh,  and  maid  the  Erie  of  Merchell, 
and  Schir  Johne  Campbell  of  Lundy,  knycht,  hir  executouris  in  Scot- 
land." (p.  59  ;  see  also  p.  276  of  the  same  work.)  This  would  seem  to 
fix  the  10th;  but  in  the  grant  to  Seigneour Francis,  referred  to  in  a  note, 
page  507,  the  lltb  of  June  was  reckoned  as  the  day  of  the  Queen's 
decease.  Sir  William  Cecil  and  Dr.  Nicholas  Wotton,  in  a  letter 
written  on  the  17th  June,  intimate  their  having  heard  of  the  Queen's 
death,  when  they  were  on  their  way  from  Berwick ;  and  in  a  subse- 
quent letter  from  Edinburgh,  dated  the  19th  June,  they  say,  "The 
xith  of  this  monethe,  the  Quene  Dowagier  dyed  here  at  Edenboroughe, 
as  we  understande  of  a  dropsie  ;  by  whose  deathe  the  Nobilitie  of 
Scotlande  be  entred  into  gi-eater  boldness,  for  mayntenaunce  of  their 
quarrell,  then  before  they  durst  shew."  (Lodge's  Illustrations,  vol.  i. 
p.  329.)  In  the  Treasurer's  Accounts  of  that  month  are  the  following 
entries : — 

"  Item,  to  Johne  Weir  pewtterar,  for  ane  wobe  of  leid  weiand  (blank) 
stanis,  to  be  ane  sepulture  to  inclose  the  Quenis  Grace  in.  iiij  lb.  xv  s. 

"  Item,  to  the  said  Johne  for  sowdane  of  the  said  wobe  of 
leid, xxxij  s. 


No.  III.  APPENDIX.  591 

"  Item,  for  ij''  dur  iialis  to  the  Quenis  Grace  sepulture,        .     iij  s. 

"  Item,  for  xxj  elnis  and  ane  half  of  blak  gray,  to  hing  the  chapell 
of  the  Castell  of  Edinburgh  the  Quenis  G.  bodie  lyand  thairin, 

vj  lb.  ij  s.  iiij  d. 

"  Item,  foure  elnys  of  quhite  taffateis  of  the  cord  to  mak  ane  cross 
aboun  the  Quenis  Grace,  price  of  the  eln  xxiiij  s.  Summa,  iiij  lb.  xvj  s." 

After  these  items,  there  follows  a  list  of  sums  paid  to  the  attendants, 
servants,  and  other  persons  connected  with  the  Queen's  household  ;  in 
all  97,  chiefly  French,  amounting  to  £1352,  8s. 

Bishop  Lesley,  in  noticing  the  Queen's  death,  says,  "  Hir  bodie 
thaireftir  was  carried  to  France  in  ane  ship,  to  the  Abbey  of  Feckin 
in  Normaudie."  (History,  p.  289.)  Knox,  at  page  160,  speaks  of 
her  burial  having  been  deferred,  and  that  "  lappet  in  a  cope  of  leid," 
her  body  lay  in  the  Castle  of  Edinburgh  till  the  19th  October, 
"  quhan  scho  by  pynouris  was  caryed  to  a  schip,  and  sa  caryed  to 
France."  Another  authority  asserts,  that  it  was  not  till  the  spring 
following  that  her  body  was  removed  from  Edinburgh. 

"■  Upoun  the  xvj  day  of  the  said  raoneth  of  March,  [1560-1]  at 
xij  houris  in  the  nycht,  the  corpes  of  vmquhile  Marie  Quene  Douriare 
of  Scotland  and  Regent,  was  convoyit  secretlie  furth  of  the  Castell  of 
Edinburgh,  and  put  in  ane  schip  in  Leith,  and  convoyit  thairfra  to 
Fi'ance,  be  Mr.  Archibald  Crawfurd  person  of  Eiglishame ;  quhair 
sho  was  honourablie  buryit."     (Diurnal  of  Occurrents,  p.  282.) 

In  mentioning  the  Queen  Regent's  funerals,  Bishop  Lesley,  in  his 
Latin  History,  is  somewhat  more  circumstantial,  by  adding,  that  after 
reaching  the  sea-port  of  Fecamp  in  Normandy,  and  lying  for  a  time 
in  the  Monastery,  the  body  was  finally  removed  to  Rheims.  His 
words  are, — "  Ejus  autem  corpus  in  Galliam  postea  transvectum  pri- 
mum  ad  Monasterium  Feckamense,  quod  in  Normania  est,  deinde 
ad  coenobium  S.  Petri  Rhemis  in  Campania,  cui  Soror  ipsius  pie  tunc 
pr£eerat,  delatum,  honorifice  condebatur."  (De  Rebus  gestis  Scoto- 
rum,  p.  569.) 

Throckmorton  also,  in  a  letter  addressed  to  Queen  Elizabeth  from 
Paris,  13th  July  1561,  says,  "  The  said  Queen  of  Scotland's  determi- 
nation to  go  home  continues  still :  She  goeth  shortly  from  Court  to  Fes- 
camp,  in  Normandy,  there  to  make  her  Mothei^'s  funerals  and  burial;  and 
from  thence  to  Calais,  there  to  embark."  (Tytler's  History,  vol.  vi. 
p.  398.) 

After  the  funeral  ceremonies  at  Fecamp,  the  Queen's  body  was 
transported  to  the  city  of  Rheims,  and  interred  in  the  Church  of  the 
Abbev   or    Convent  of  Saint-Pierre-les-Dames,   of  which  her  sister 


592  APPENDIX.  No.  IV. 

Renee  de  Lorraine  was  Abbess.  This  younger  daughter  of  Claude 
de  Lorraine,  first  Duke  of  Guise,  was  born  in  1522.  She  became 
Abbess  in  1546,  and  survived  till  the  3d  of  April  1602,  when  she 
was  interred  beside  her  sister  the  Queen  of  Scotland.  There  was  a 
handsome  marble  monument  erected  in  the  choir  of  the  church ;  but 
the  Abbey  itself  was  in  a  great  measure  destroyed  during  the  excesses 
of  the  French  Revolution  in  1792.  The  monument  was  adorned 
with  a  full  length  figure  in  bronze  of  the  Queen  in  royal  apparel, 
holding  the  sword  and  the  rod  of  justice,  "  tenant  le  sceptre  et  la 
main  de  justice."     (Anselme,  Hist.  Genealogique,  tome  iii.  p.  492.) 


No.  IV. 

NOTICES  OF  JOHN  BLACK,  A  DOMINICAN  FRIAR, 

Friar  John  Black,  of  the  Dominican  Order,  is  celebrated  by 
Lesley,  Dempster,  and  other  Roman  Catholic  writers,  for  his  learning 
and  exertions  on  behalf  of  the  orthodox  faith.  In  August  1559,  the 
Queen  Regent  came  from  Dunbar  to  Edinburgh,  and  having  taken 
possession  of  Holyrood  House,  it  is  stated,  that  Archbishop  Hamilton, 
"  upon  a  day,  past  to  the  pulpit  in  the  Abbay,"  and  after  display- 
ing "  a  little  of  his  superstition,  he  declared  he  had  not  bene  weill 
exercised  in  that  profession,  {i.  e.  of  preaching,)  therefore  desyred  the 
auditors  to  hold  him  excused.  In  the  meantyme  he  showed  unto 
them  that  there  was  a  learned  man,  meaning  Fryer  Blacke,  who  was 
to  come  immediately  after  him  into  the  pulpitt,  who  would  declare 
unto  them  the  truth  ;  and  therefore  desyred  them  to  lett  him  cease." 
(Hist,  of  the  Estate  of  Scotland,  Wodrow  Miscellany,  vol.  i.  p.  67.) 

Bishop  Lesley  mentions  a  public  disputation  between  Friar  Black 
and  John  "Willock,  at  Edinburgh,  in  the  summer  of  1561,  which  lasted 
for  two  days.  As  usual,  however,  in  all  such  controversial  disputes, 
"  in  the  ende,  nothing  was  agreit."  (Hist.  p.  295.  See  also  Leslasus  de 
Rebus  Gestis  Scotorum,  p.  577,  Romte,  1578,  4to ;  and  Sir  James 
Balfour's  Annals,  Works,  vol.  i.  p.  235.)  Under  the  year  1560, 
(see  this  vol.  p.  68,)  Knox  mentions  Friar  Black  as  performing 
Mass  when  the  Queen  Regent  was  in  the  Castle  of  Edinbui'gh, 
notwithstandinc  that  she  was  aware  of  his  licentious  conduct.     Two 


No.  IV.  APPENDIX.  593 

years  later  the  Town  Council  of  Edinburgh  having  apprehended  and 
confined  Friar  Black  "  for  manifest  adultery,"  Queen  Mary  addressed 
the  following  letter  to  the  Provost,  Baillies,  &c.,  of  Edinburgh,  com- 
manding them  to  deliver  the  said  Friar  to  the  Captain  of  the  Castle^, 
to  remain  there  till  he  should  be  brought  to  trial : — 

"  Provest,  Bailhes,  and  Counsale  op  Edinburgh, — It  is  oure 
Will,  and  we  charge  zow,  that  incontinent  efter  the  sicht  heirof,  ze 
deliver  Freir  Johne  Black  to  the  Capitane,  Constabill,  and  Keiparis  of 
oure  Castell  of  Edinburgh,  till  be  keipit  tbairintill  surelie,  unto  sic 
tyme  as  we  haue  ordanyt  for  the  triell  of  his  offences  before  oure  Jus- 
tice-Generale  or  his  Deputtis  ;  and  this  on  na  wayis  ze  leaf  undone, 
as  ze  will  ansuer  to  ws  thairupoun.  At  Sanct  Androis,  the  11th  of 
April  1562. 

{Seqidtur  suhscrijitio,)     "  Marie  R." 

The  records  of  criminal  proceedings  furnish  no  evidence  of  the 
Friar  having  ever  been  brought  to  trial ;  but  this  warrant,  no  doubt, 
saved  him  from  the  punishment  which  the  Town  Council  at  this  time 
had  adjudged  to  all  fornicators,  to  be  ducked  in  the  North  Loch.  (See 
Maitland's  Hist,  of  Edinb.  p.  25.) 

On  the  12th  February  1565,  Andro  Armestrang,  and  three  other 
burgesses  of  Edinburgh,  were  brought  to  trial,  "  delatit  of  the  hurting 
and  vFOunding  of  Freir  Johne  Blak,  betwix  his  schulderis,  to  the  effu- 
sione  of  his  blude,  upon  the  fyft  day  of  Januar  last  bypast,  betwix 
aucht  and  nyne  houris  at  evin,  in  the  Cowgait,  betwix  Nwyderis 
Wynd  and  the  Freir  Wynd."  (Pitcairn's  Criminal  Trials,  vol.  i.  pp. 
475*,  476*.)  From  another  authority,  mentioned  below,  it  would 
seem  that  the  Friar  was  killed  during  the  fray  in  Holyi'ood,  on  the 
same  night  vphen  Riccio  was  mui-dered. 

The  transcriber  of  MS.  "W,  of  Knox's  History,  has  introduced  some 
lines,  playing  upon  the  Friar's  name,  "because  he  wasborne  in  the  Blah 
Freirs  in  Edinburgh,  and  was  a  man  of  Blak  personage,  called  Blak  to 
his  name,  and  one  of  the  Ordour  of  Blak  Friers ;"  and  in  the  margin 
of  the  MS.  he  says,  "  This  was  added  be  me,  Tho.  Wood,  quhilk  I 
heard,  thocht  not  mentioned  by  Mr.  Knox,"  Mr.  Sharpe,  who  says, 
"  this  copy  of  verses  affords  an  excellent  (?)  specimen  of  the  satirical 
poetry  of  the  Reformers,"  has  inserted  the  lines,  in  a  note  to  Kirkton's 
History  of  the  Church,  p.  10,  Edinb.  1817,  4to. 

In  a  MS.  volume  of  Calderwood's  Histoiy,  written  in  the  year 
1636,  we  find  introduced,  as  "  A  description  of  the  Queen's  Black 
Chaplane,"  a  somewhat  different  version  of  the  lines  referred  to  : — 

VOL.  II.  2  P 


594  APPENDIX.  No.  IV. 

"  Master  Knox  relateth,  that  the  Queen  Regent  herself  had  a  little 
before  deprehended  the  said  Frier  Black  with  his  harlot  in  the 
chappel.  But  whoordoome  and  idolatrie  agrie  weill  together.  This 
Frier  Black  was  Black  in  a  threefold  consideration,  first  in  respect  of 
his  Order,  for  he  was  a  Black  Frier  by  profession ;  secondlie  in  re- 
spect of  his  Surname  ;  thirdlie  in  respect  of  his  Black  workes.  Wher- 
upon  these  black  verses  following  wer  made  as  a  black  trumpet  to 
blaze  furth  all  his  blacknesses : — 

"  A  certane  Black  Frier,  weill  surnamed  Black, 

And  not  nicknam'd  :  for  Black  wer  all  his  workes, 
In  a  black  houre  borne,  in  all  black  deedes  fi-ack ; 

And  of  his  black  craft  one  of  the  blackest  Clerks ; 
He  took  a  black  whoor  to  wash  his  black  sarks, 

Committing  with  her  black  fornication  : 
Black  was  his  soule  to  shoote  at  such  black  markes ; 

Frier  Black,  Black  Frier,  Black  was  his  vocation." 

It  may  be  considered  more  important  to  notice,  that  Black  had 
been  promoted  by  Archbishop  Hamilton,  to  the  place  of  Second 
Master  in  St.  Mary's  College,  St.  Andrews.  This  fact,  not  elsewhere 
recorded,  appears  from  the  following  gi-ant,  in  the  Register  of  Presen- 
tations to  Benefices  : — 

"  Our  Soverane  Lord,  &c.,  ordanis  this  letter  under  the  Previe  Seill, 
ratifiiind  and  perpetualie  confirmand  the  gift  and  provisioun  maid  and 
grantit  be  John  Archebishop  of  Sanct  Androis,  foundar  and  erectar 
of  our  Lady  College,  within  the  citie  of  Sanct  Androis,  to  Maister 
Robert  Hamiltoun,  then  Third  Maister  of  the  said  College  of  the 
Seciind  place  and  Maister  thairof,  usit  to  be  possessit  be  ane  theologe 
(the  lyke  quhairof  he  is)  vacand  he  deceis  of  Johne  Black,  Blackfriar, 
last  possessour  of  the  samyn,"  &c.,  12th  November  1567.  "Sub- 
scrivit  at  Saint  Androis  the  last  day  of  Maij  1569."  (Register  of 
Presentation  to  Benefices,  vol.  i.  fol.  25.) 

Dempster  celebrates  Black  (prceclarus  Chi^isti  miles)  for  his  eloquence 
and  opposition  to  heresy,  and  for  having  sealed  his  constant  profession 
of  the  faith  with  his  blood.  (Hist.  Ecclesiastica  Gentis  Scotorum, 
p.  85.)  This  alludes  to  the  fatal  termination  of  the  Friar's  career, 
not  on  the  7th  of  January  1562,  for  which  he  quotes  Lesley,  p.  577, 
but  on  the  8th  March  1565-6,  Avhen  he  was  slain  on  the  night  of 
David  Riccio's  murder,  in  Holyrood  House.  It  is  singular  that  no 
notice  of  this  should  occur  in  our  own  historical  writers.  But  Park- 
hurst,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  in  a  letter  to  Bullinger,  giving  him  a  sum- 
mary of  passing  events,   dated  21st  August  1566,  after  noticing  the 


No.  V.  APPENDIX.  595 

murder  of  "  Signer  David,  skilled  in  necromancy,  and  in  gi-eat  favour 
with  the  Queen  of  Scots,"  mentions  that  Black,  a  Dominican  Friar, 
held  in  great  estimation  among  the  Papists,  was  also  killed  that  night. 
But  even  this  grave  prelate  cannot  restrain  his  humour  in  reference 
to  the  Friar's  name ;  his  words  are  :  "  Fraterculus  quidam,  nomine 
Blacke  (niger,  Swartz,)  Papistarum  antesignanus,  eodem  tempore  in 
Aula  occiditui*. 

"  Sic  Niger  hie  Nebulo,  nigra  quoque  morte  peremptus, 
Invitus  Nigrum  subito  descendit  in  Orcum." 

This  letter,  first  published  by  Burnet,  (Hist.  Reform.,  vol.  iii.  App., 
p.  360,)  is  included  in  the  collection  of  Zurich  Letters,  published  by 
the  Parker  Society,  p.  99.  London,  1842,  8vo.  The  translator  thus 
rendei's  the  above  distich  : — 

"  Seized  by  black  Death,  this  blacker  Knave 
Descended  to  the  gloomy  grave."     (lb.  p.  166.) 


No.  V. 

NOTICES  OF  DAVID  RICCIO. 

Ix  appears  somewhat  doubtful  whether  Knox  contemplated  giving 
any  detailed  account  of  Riccio's  life  :  compare  vol.  i.  p.  235,  and  vol.  ii. 
p.  422.  If  so,  it  would  probably  not  have  been  so  much  a  narrative 
of  his  private  history,  as  an  exposure  of  the  influence  which  he 
seems  to  have  exerted  in  public  affairs,  tending  to  the  overthrow  of 
the  Reformed  Religion.  Although  we  cannot  attribute  to  Knox  the 
passages  in  the  Fifth  Book  which  relate  the  murder  of  Riccio,  yet 
some  detached  notices  exhibiting  his  progressive  advancement  at  the 
Scotish  Court,  chiefly  derived  from  the  Public  Records,  may  not  be 
considered  as  out  of  place  in  this  Appendix. 

David  Riccio,  a  native  of  Pancalieri,  in  Piedmont,  Avas  born  about 
the  year  1534,  and  was  first  in  the  service  of  the  Archbishop  of 
Turin.  In  December  1561,  the  Marquis  de  Morette,  the  Ambassador 
of  Savoy,  arrived  in  Scotland  to  congratulate  Queen  Mary  on  her 
return  to  her  native  kingdom.  It  was  in  the  suite  of  the  Marquis  that 
Riccio,  when  about  twenty-eight  years  of  age,  came  to   this  country 


596  APPENDIX.  No.  V. 

in  quality  of  Secretary.  (Labanoff,  Recueil  des  Lettres  de  Marie 
Stuart,  Reine  d'Ecosse,  vol.  i.  p.  120,  vol.  vii.  pp.  65,  86.)  His  know- 
ledge of  the  French  and  Italian  languages,  and  his  skill  in  music, 
recommended  him  to  the  Queen's  notice,  and  led  to  his  permanent 
residence  in  Scotland  as  "  virlat,"  "  chalmer-cheild/'  or  one  of  the 
valets  of  her  chamber.  In  the  Treasurer's  Accounts  in  the  early 
part  of  the  year  1562,  we  find  the  following  payments: — 

1561-2. — "  Item,  the  said  day,  (viij  day  of  Januar,)  be  the  Quenis 
Grace  precept  to  David  Ritio,  virlat  in  the  Quenis  Grace  chalmer, 

1.  lib.  (£50.) 

1562. — "  Item,  the  xvj  day  of  Aprile,  be  the  Quenis  Grace  precept 
to  David  Ritio,  Italiane,  chalmer-cheild^  as  his  acquittance  schawin 
vpoun  compt  beris,       .......         xv.  lib." 

These  payments  seem  to  have  been  additions  to  the  annual  pension 
granted  to  him  by  the  Queen.  In  the  "  Compt  of  the  Collector  Ge- 
nerall  of  the  Thirds  of  Benefices,"  for  the  year  1561,  and  rendered 
18th  February  1563-4,  we  find  among  the  pensions  paid,  the  follow- 
ing entry : — "  And  of  the  soume  of  threscoir  fivetene  pundis,  pait  be 
the  Comptare  to  David  Rycheo,  Italiane,  vallet  of  the  chalmer,  for 
his  zeirlie  pensioun,  granted  to  him  be  the  Quenis  Majestie,  of  the  zeir 
compted,  as  hir  Hienes  letters  vnder  hir  subscriptioun,  and  the  said 
Davidis  acquittance  schawin  and  producit  upoun  compt  proportis, 

Ixxv.  lib." 

In  1564,  Riccio's  salary  was  £80,  paid  quarterly;  and  in  Decem- 
ber that  year,  he  wras  nominated  French  Secretary  to  the  Queen,  in 
place  of  Raulet.  (Randolph's  Letter  to  Cecil,  3d  December  1564, 
Keith's  Hist.,  vol.  ii.  p.  259 ;  and  Labanoff,  vol.  i.  p.  248.)  In  the 
Treasurer's  Accounts  in  August  1565,  there  are  numerous  payments 
made  -'  to  David  Riccio  Secretar,"  for  articles  of  furniture,  dress,  &c., 
"  be  the  King  and  Quenis  Graces  precept,"  chiefly  for  the  use  of 
"  the  Kingis  Grace."  He  had  been  an  active  promoter  of  the  Queen's 
man-iage  -with  Darnley,  w^hich  may  have  contributed  to  increase  his 
interest  at  Court.  Randolph,  in  a  letter  to  Cecil,  dated  3d  June 
1565,  uses  this  strong  language: — "  David  now  worketh  all,  and  is 
only  governor  to  the  King  and  his  family :  great  is  his  pride,  and  his 
words  intollerable.  People  have  small  joy  in  this  new  master,  and  find 
nothing  but  that  God  must  either  send  him  a  short  end,  or  them  a 
miserable  life.  The  dangers  to  those  he  now  hateth  are  great,  and 
either  he  must  he  taken  aivay,  or  they  find  some  support^  that  what  he  in- 
tendeth  to  others  may  fall  upon  himself."  (Keith's  Hist.,  vol.  ii.  p.  291.) 
It  has  been  said  that  he  was  appointed  Keeper  of  the  Great  Seal 


No.  V.  APPENDIX.  597 

about  this  time.  This  undoubtedly  is  a  mistake  :  see  vol.  i.  p.  446. 
But  the  influence  he  had  obtained,  and  the  prospect  that  when  the 
Parliament  assembled  he  might  prevail  upon  the  Queen  to  proceed 
against  the  Earl  of  Murray  and  the  chief  Protestants,  in  connexion 
with  the  foolish  jealousy  of  her  husband,  gave  rise  to  that  conspiracy 
which  terminated  in  Riccio's  murder — one  of  those  deeds  which  dis- 
grace the  history  of  this  country. 

Referring  again  to  the  Treasurer's  Accounts,  one  or  two  other  entries 
may  be  quoted  : — 

"  Item,  be  the  Quenis  grace  command,  the  last  of  Januar  [1565-6,] 
to  David  Riccio,  for  reparatione  of  his  chalmer,  as  his  acquittance 
schawin  upoun  compt  beris, ij*"  lib.  (.£200.)" 

On  the  last  of  February  he  received,  on  the  Queen's  account, 
£2000  in  part  payment  of  10,000  merks,  for  "  the  dewitie  of  the 
Cunzehouse."     And  after  his  death,  we  find, 

"Item,  the  xxix  day  of  Maij  (1566,)  to  ane  boy  passand  of  Edin- 
burgh with  letters  of  our  Soueranis,  to  be  deliverit  to  Robert  Com- 
mendator  of  Halierudhouse,  to  command  and  charge  all  and  sindrie 
personis,  intrometteris,  havaris,  withhalderis,  and  detenaris  of  the 
horssis  quhatsumevir  partening  to  umquhill  David  Riccio,  Secretar, 
to  be  deliverit  to  the  said  Commendator, ix  s." 

The  Collection  of  Queen  Mary's  Letters,  formed  with  almost  un- 
exampled care  and  zeal  by  the  Prince  Alexander  LabanofF,  includes 
two  long  and  interesting  dispatches  in  Italian,  (one  without  date,  the 
other,  8th  October  1566,)  addressed  to  Cosmo  Duke  of  Tuscany, 
which  furnish  various  particulars  both  relating  to  Riccio's  history  and 
the  events  preceding  his  murder,  on  the  evening  of  Saturday  the  9th 
March  1565-6.  "Ah  povero  Davit,  mio  buono  et  fcdel  servitore, 
Dio  habbi  misericordia  di  vostra  anima !"  (Recueil,  &c.,  vol.  vii. 
pp.  65,  86,  93.) 

Calderwood  repeats  what  George  Buchanan  states  in  his  History 
regarding  Riccio's  funeral :  "  After  the  flight  of  the  Noblemen  from 
Edinburgh,  the  Queen  caused  to  take  np  in  the  night  Seigneur  Davie 
his  corps,  which  had  been  buried  before  the  Abbey  kirk  doore,  and 
lay  it  near  to  Queene  Magdalene  ;  which  ministered  no  small  occa- 
siounto  the  people  of  bad  constructions."     (History,  vol.  ii.  p.  316.) 

"  A  Relation  of  the  Death  of  David  Rizzi,  chief  favourite  of 
Mary  Stuart,  Queen  of  Scotland  ;  who  was  killed  in  the  apartment 
of  the  said  Queen  on  the  9th  March  1565.  Written  by  the  Lord 
Ruthen,  one  of  the  principal  persons  concerned  in  that  action,''  was 
printed  at  London  1699,  8vo,  and  lias  been  several  times  reprinted. 


598  APPENDIX.  No.  VI. 

One  of  these  editions,  forming  part  of  a  volume  entitled,  "  Miscellanea 
Antiqua  Anglicana,"  London,  1815,  4to,  is  accompanied  with  a  por- 
trait of  Riccio  :  It  has  much  the  look  of  an  original  by  Zucchero, 
and  is  "  painted  on  a  small  circular  pannel ;  and  on  the  back  are 
rudely  cut  into  the  wood  the  name  Davit  Rixlo,  and  the  date  1564." 


No.  VI. 


THE  ABBOTS  OF  CULROSS  AND  LINDORES  IN  15G0. 

It  is  often  impossible  to  identify  persons  at  an  early  period  who  held 
high  ecclesiastical  appointments,  from  only  their  baptismal  names  and 
designations  being  given  in  deeds  and  the  public  records.  But  it  is 
singular  that  any  difficulty  should  have  been  experienced  in  regard  to 
persons  who  flourished  so  late  as  the  middle  of  the  16th  century. 
Among  the  dignified  clergy  who  were  present  at  the  condemnation  of 
Sir  John  Borthwick  for  heresy,  in  May  1540,  we  find  the  names  of 
"William  Commendator  of  Culross,  and  John  Abbot  of  Lindores. 
Both  of  these  individuals  took  their  seats  as  Lords  of  Session,  on 
the  Spiritual  side,  5th  November  1544  ;  they  had  also  a  seat  in  Par- 
liament; and  both  of  them  having  joined  the  Reformers,  were 
present  when  the  Confession  of  Faith  was  ratified  and  approved  in 
August  1560. 


I.  William  Commendator  of  Culross,  1539-1564, 
I  have  two  deeds  dated  in  1539-40,  and  1541,  granted  by  "  "Wil- 
liam Commendator  and  Usufi'uctuar  of  Culross,  and  John  be  the 
permission  of  God  Abbot  of  that  ilk,  and  Convent  of  the  samyn," 
signed,  "  "V^illelmus  Commendatarius  de  Culross,  Johannes  Colvile 
Abbas,"  and  by  "  Frater  Johannes  Christeson,"  and  the  other  brethren 
of  the  convent.  Another  deed,  dated  20th  March  1564-5,  is  signed  by 
"William  Commendator,  &c.,  along  with  the  brethren  of  the  Convent ; 
John  Colville,  Abbot,  having  probably  died  before  this.  "William 
Commendator  of  Culross  filled  the  office  of  Comptroller  from  1546 
to  1550.  His  name  occurs  among  the  signatures  to  the  Book  of 
Discipline,  see  page  258.     That  the  Commendator  as   well    as  the 


No.  VI.  APPENDIX.  599 

Abbot  was  a  Colvillc  might  be  .shown  from  several  incidental  notices. 
One  instance  may  suffice ;  in  the  Register  of  Signatures,  there  is  re- 
corded the  Confirmation  of  a  pension  of  ,£61,  6s.  8d.,  and  "  twenty 
bollis  rynnand  met  of  quheit,  granted  by  umquhill  "VVilliajme  Com- 
mendator  of  Culross,  and   Convent   thairof,   to    Maister   Robert 

COLVILL     BROTHER     TO     THE     SAU)     UMQUHII.L     COMJIENDATOR,"    15th 

April  1569. 

II.  John  Abbot  of  Lindores,  1540-1566. 

There  is  much  less  certainty  in  regard  to  this  Abbot.  In  a  deed 
dated  19th  February  1539-40,  John  Abbot  of  Lindoris  signs  as  Coad- 
j  utor  and  Administrator  of  the  Abbey  of  Kelso,  during  the  minority  of 
Lord  James  Stewart  Comraendatoi',  who  was  then  under  age.  In 
1540,  John  Abbot  of  Lindores  had  a  seat  in  Parliament;  and  four 
years  later  he  appears  as  one  of  the  Lords  of  Session.  In  the  Pi'o- 
vincial  Council  held  at  Edinburgh  in  1549,  he  sat  as  Abbot;  and, 
as  Knox  states  under  the  year  1559,  (vol.  i.  p.  392,)  having  submitted 
to  the  Congregation,  he  was  stigmatized  as  an  apostate.  In  August 
1560,  he  gave  his  sanction  to  the  Confession  of  Faith.  John  Com- 
mendator  of  Lindoris  is  named  as  having  been  present  at  the  meet- 
ing of  the  General  Assembly,  25th  June  1566,  but  probably  did  no 
long  survive. 

In  the  "  Epistolte  Regum  Scotorum,"  there  is  a  letter  addressed 
by  John  Duke  of  Albany,  Governor  of  Scotland,  to  Pope  Hadrian 
the  Sixth,  dated  9th  Mai-ch  1521-2,  which  may  assist  in  ascertain- 
ing this  point.  It  states  that  the  venerable  father,  Henry  Abbot  of 
Lundoris,  on  account  of  the  inci*easing  infirmities  of  age,  "  ad  so- 
licitudines  et  vigilantiores  loci  sufFerandos  labores,  pra^cipuum  et 
probatum  virum  Johannem  Philp,  inibi  professum  Monachum  Pres- 
byterum,  delegit;"  and  therefore  he  had  resigned  to  him  the  Abbacy, 
reserving  to  himself  for  life  the  revenues  of  this  benefice,  requesting 
his  Holiness  to  confirm  the  said  John  Philp  as  Abbot.  "  Johannes 
Philp"  appears  in  the  list  of  Determinants  in  St.  Salvator's  College, 
St.  Andrews,  in  1536  ;  and  the  following  year  "  M.  Johannes  Philp" 
is  included  among  the  Licentiates  for  the  higher  degree  of  Master 
of  Arts.  That  this  person  may  have  been  the  son  or  nephew  of  the 
Abbot  is  by  no  means  improbable. 

It  is  not  ascertained  how  long  Abbot  Henry,  who  sat  in  Parlia- 
ment in  1513,  may  have  survived  the  appointment  of  his  coadjutor  in 
1522.  That  Abbot  John  may  have  held  the  office  for  a  period  of 
forty-five  years,  is,  at  least,  a  probable  conjecture  ;  and  in   the  ab- 


600  APPENDIX.  No.  VI. 

sence  of  more  direct  proof,  that  this  individual  was  John  Philp,  it 
may  be  noticed  that  several  persons  of  that  name  appear  connected 
with  Lindores  for  a  length  of  time.  Among  others,  (1.)  James  Philp  of 
Ormeston,  (who  died  in  21st  January  1579-80,)  and  Margaret  Forrest 
his  spouse,  had  a  charter  of  lands  in  the  Grange  of  Lindores,  24th 
March  1574.  According  to  his  testament,  confirmed  26th  April  1583, 
John  Philp,  burgess  of  Newburgh,  was  his  brother-german,  and 
mention  is  made  of  Henry  and  John  Philpis,  as  his  lawfull  barnes. 
(2.)  James  Philp,  junior,  and  Margaret  Philp  his  spouse,  had  a  lease 
of  3^  acres  of  land  in  the  regality  of  Lindoris,  18th  October  1580. 
(3.)  Letters  of  Legitimation  of  Henry  Philp,  bastard,  natural  son  of 
Mr.  John  Philp  in  Newtoun  of  Lindoris,  were  granted  10th  Sep- 
tember 1580.  (4.)  The  same  person  styled  simply  Henry  Philp, 
son  of  Mr.  John  Philp  in  Newburgh,  had  a  charter  of  five  acres  in  the 
Hauch  of  Lundores  in  Fife,  21st  December  1592. 


ni,  John  Bishop  of  Ross  and  Abbot  of  Lindores,  1560. 

A  few  particulars  may  be  added  respecting  another  Abbot  of  Lin- 
doris, who  was  much  more  distinguished  both  in  his  literary  and 
political  career — John  Lesley,  Bishop  of  Ross.  He  was  bom  29th 
September  1527.  Knox,  at  page  141  of  this  volume,  calls  him  "a 
priest's  gett,"  or  bastard  ;  and  this  assertion  is  fully  confirmed  by  some 
^original  documents  which  Bishop  Keith  examined,  showing  that  he 
was  the  natural  son  ofGawin  Lesley,  parson  of  Kingussie  in  Badenoch, 
and  Official  of  the  See  of  Murray.  In  1537,  John  Lesley  obtained  a 
dispensation,  notwithstanding  the  defect  of  his  birth,  to  become  a 
clergyman.  He  was  inducted  to  a  canonry  in  the  Cathedral  Church 
of  Aberdeen  and  Ellon  in  August  1550.  He  then  spent  four  years 
abroad,  in  the  study  of  the  civil  and  canon  laws  in  the  University  of 
Poictiers ;  and  was  created  a  Doctor  of  Laws  at  Paris.  He  returned 
to  Scotland  in  April  1554;  four  years  later,  in  April  1558,  he  was 
appointed  Official  at  Aberdeen;  and  in  July  1559,  he  was  inducted 
to  the  parsonage,  canonry,  and  prebend  of  Oyne.  In  April  1561, 
he  was  deputed,  on  the  part  of  the  Roman  Catholic  party,  to  invite 
the  Queen  to  Scotland,  after  the  death  of  Francis  the  Second.  He 
returned  to  Leith  in  the  same  vessel  with  her ;  and  for  a  period  of 
upwards  of  twenty  years  continued  one  of  the  most  active  and  zealous 
adherents  and  assertors  of  the  rights  and  character  of  his  Royal  Mis- 
tress. On  the  19th  January  1563-4,  he  took  his  seat  as  a  Lord  of 
Session,  by  his  designation  as  Parson  of  Oyne.     Soon  afterwards  he 


No.  VI.  APPENDIX.  601 

obtained  the  Abbacy  of  Lindores  in  commendam ;  and  upon  the  death 
of  Henry  Sinclair,  Bishop  of  Ross,  having  been  promoted  to  the  vacant 
See,  his  appointment  was  confirmed  in  April  1566. 

Among  the  various  documents  I'elating  to  John  Lesley  parson  of 
Oyne,  and  afterwards  Bishop  of  Ross,  of  which  Keith  has  given  some 
account,  is  one,  No.  7,  which,  if  correctly  stated,  would  have  shown 
that  the  name  of  the  Abbot,  his  immediate  predecessor,  was  also  John 
Lesley.  It  will  be  seen,  however,  that  this  is  a  mistake.  Having 
obtained  a  sight  of  the  original  paper,  which  is  written  in  a  small 
hand,  and  full  of  contractions,  it  may  be  described  as  a  petition  in- 
timating in  the  usual  form,  that  John,  Abbot  of  the  Monastery 
OF  LiNDORis,  of  the  Order  of  St.  Benedict,  in  the  diocese  of  St. 
Andrews,  had  resigned  the  Abbacy  in  favour  of  John  Leslie,  Clerk 
in  the  diocese  of  Murray,  and  a  Doctor  of  both  Laws,  who  had  a  seat 
on  the  bench  as  one  of  the  Lords  of  Council  in  Scotland.  To  this 
added  the  Jiat  ut  petitur,  granting  Lesley  a  dispensation  to  hold  this 
benefice  in  commendam.  It  is  dated  "•  Rome  apud  Sanctum  Petrum 
sexto  Kal.  Martij,  Anno  Primo."  That  this  was  during  the  first 
year  of  the  Pontificate  of  Pius  V.,  (who  was  elected  on  the  7th,  and 
crowned  on  the  17th  January  1565-6,)  is  evident  from  the  document 
itself,  which  refers  to  letters  in  favour  of  Lesley,  "  by  Henry  and 
Mary,  King  and  Queen  of  Scotland,"  thus  fixing  the  date  to  the  24th 
February  1566. 

In  June  following,  John  Bishop  of  Ross,  and  Commendator  of 
Lindores,  obtained  a  Royal  mandate,  and  took  an  active  part  in 
regard  to  the  confirmation  of  various  feu-farms  of  lands  pertain- 
ing to  the  Abbey  of  Lindores.  In  the  letter  describing  Riccio's 
murder  and  the  Queen's  conduct,  addressed  to  the  Council  of  England 
by  the  Earl  of  Bedford  and  Sir  Thomas  Randolph,  the  27th  March 
1566,  it  appears  that  Bishop  Lesley,  along  with  his  colleague  James 
Balfour,  Parson  of  Flisk,  was  that  night  in  Holyrood, — "  AthoUe 
had  leave  of  the  Kinge,  with  Flyske  and  Landores,  (ivko  was  lately 
called  Lyslaye,  the  Parson  of  Ovne,)  to  go  where  they  wolde ;  and 
being  convoide  oute  of  the  courte,"  &c,  (Wright's  Queen  Elizabeth, 
vol.  i.  p.  229.) 

The  latter  portion  of  Bishop  Lesley's  life  is  well  known,  and  need 
not  be  detailed— his  imprisonment  in  England  in  1571 — his  long 
residence  in  different  parts  of  the  continent,  and  his  death  near 
Brussels  on  the  31st  May  1596,  in  the  sixty-ninth  year  of  his  age. 
See  in  particular  the  account  of  his  life  and  writings,  by  Dr.  Irving 
in  his  "Lives  of  Scotish  "Writers,"  vol.  i.  p.  122,  &c. 


GLOSSARY. 


Aback,  to  hold  or  keep  hack. 
Abaid,  abode. 
Abnegation,  denial. 
Abone,  abuif,  above. 
Abyid,  abide. 
Addettit,  indebted. 
Adjonit,  adjoined. 
Advoutrie,  adultery. 
Affray,  terror. 
Affi'ayid,  frightened. 
Afoir,  afore,  before. 
Aggreage,  aggravate. 
Agylytye,  agilitij. 
Aiges,  ages. 
Aithis,  oatJis. 
Aittis,  oats. 
Alane,  alone. 
Alay,  walk,  alley. 
Allanerlie,  solely,  only. 
AUuterlie,  entirely,  ivholly. 
Almany,  Germany. 
Almous,  almouse,  alms. 
Als,  alse,  as,  also. 
Althocht,  although. 
Alwise,  ahvays. 
Amangis,  amongst. 


Ambassade,  embassy. 

An,  if 

Ane,  one,  a. 

Anefold,  onefold,  sincere. 

Anent,  touching,  concerning. 

Anes,  anis,  once. 

Aneuche,  enough. 

Appeiris,  appears. 

Appell,  appeal. 

Appone  (for  oppone,)  oppose. 

Appreve,  approve. 

ArguGSsin,  lieutenant  of  a  galley. 

Armite,  hermit. 

Art  and  part,  aider  and  abetter. 

Assistaris,  assisters. 

Aston yed,  astonished. 

Attour,  besides,  beyond,  moreover, 

Aucht,  aught,  ought. 

Audit,  awght,  eight. 

Auditure,  auditoure,  auditory. 

Auglitand,  owing. 

Aughtein,  eighteen. 

Auld,  old. 

Auncestouris,  ancestors. 

Avoid,  remove,  evacuate. 

Avoutrie,  adidtery. 

Aw,  doth  owe. 

Awaitand,  ivaiting. 


604 


GLOSSARY. 


Awin,  own. 

Ay,  aye,  alivays,  evermore. 

Ayre  and  laitt,  eai'ly  and  late. 


Backis  (to  give),  to  retreat,  to  turn 

their  backs. 
Baikin,  lalcen. 
Baith,  both. 
Baldness,  boldness. 
Balling,  revelling. 
Banded, /omec?  together,  combined. 
Bannis,  bans. 
Barnes,    bairnes,    child,    children, 

also  pupils. 
Bauldlie,  boldly. 
Bawbie,  a  halfpenny. 
Bayr,  bore. 
Bayre,  bear. 
Beand,  being. 
Bear,  beer. 
Beck,  bow  down. 
Begouth,  began. 
Begynaud,  beginning. 
Beiris,  bears. 
Belyiffit,  believed. 
Belyve,  speedily,  in  a  little  time. 
Beseik,  beseech. 
Besiness,  business. 
Besyde,  near  hand,  by,  with. 
Bigane,  bygone. 
Bigged,  biggit,  built. 
Bill,  indytement,  letter,  petition. 
Birsit,  bruised,  pressed. 
Birst,  burst,  broke. 
Blawe,  blawin,  blow,  blown. 
Boddom,  bottom. 
Boit,  boat. 

Bolden,  boldened,  to  swell,  swollen, 
embolden. 


Boosome,  besom. 

Bordell,  brothel. 

Bordouris,  the  Borders. 

Bosses,  drunkards. 

Bot,  but. 

Bourd,  jest. 

Bow,  bowes,  an  arched  gate,  gates. 

Bowes,  Papal  Bulls. 

Boyth,  both. 

Brack,  broke. 

Bragg,  braggis,  boast,  boasting. 

Braid,  broad. 

Braid,  breid,  bread. 

Brede,  breed. 

Brek,  .breach. 

Brek,  separate. 

Breke,  break. 

Brethir,  brothers,  brethren. 

Breve,  brief. 

Brig,  bridge. 

Brocht,  brought. 

Brod,  board. 

Broillie,  disturbance. 

Browen,  brewed. 

Bruikit,  enjoyed. 

Bruited,  reported. 

Bruittis,  bruytis,  reports. 

Bruke,  bruik,  enjoy. 

Brunt,  brynt,  burned. 

Buclieowris,bowclieouris,^M^c/ier.5. 

Buddis,  buds,  blossoms. 

Buddis,  bribes. 

BufFatis,  blows. 

Buikis,  books. 

Buirdeit,  boarded. 

Buist,  buistis,  box,  chest. 

Buist,  {for  browst,)  brewing. 

Burding,  bourding,  jesting. 

Burn  bis  bill,  make  recantation. 

Burstit,  burst. 

But,  without. 


GLOSSARY. 


605 


Buttis,  bootis,  butts. 
Byding,  staying,  ivaiting. 
Bylle,  hill. 

Byrunne,  bf/past,  hjgone. 
Byrse,  bristle,  used  metaphoiicalbj 
for  the  beard. 


Cagots,    an   iinfortunate    race    of 
people  in  the  Pyrenees,  included  by 
French  writers  among  the  Races 
maudites. 
Cair,  care. 

Caii'tis,  cards. 
Cais,  case. 

Cald,  cold. 

Calsay,  causeway. 

Cammoise,  canvas,  coarse  linen. 

Camped,  encamped. 

Campiounes,  champions. 

Cannabie,  canopy. 

Carcageis,  carcasses. 

Cartit,  carted,  exposed  as  a  male- 
factor. 

Carvit,  carved. 

Cassin,  cassein,  cast. 

Cassit,  set  aside. 

Cauldness,  coldness. 

Cautioner,  surety. 

Cayr,  care. 

Ceis,  ceissit,  cease,  ceased. 

Censement,  judgment,  opinion. 

Certane  (a),  certain  number. 

Certes,  tndy,  of  a  truth. 

Chalmer-cheild,  valet-de-chambre. 

Chayre  (open),  pulpit,  public  place. 

Cheaf,  sheaf. 

Cheinzies,  chains. 

Cheise,  clieisit,  choose,  choosed. 

Chymlay,  grate,  chimney. 


Claw-backs,  flatterers. 

Clengeit,  acquitted,  cleansed. 

Cleything,  cloathing. 

Clois,  close. 

Cloiss,  court,  narrow  lane,  inclosure. 

Clud,  cloud. 

Cockle,  a  weed  abounding  chiefly  in 
cornfields, 

Coft,  bought. 

Cohort,  exhort. 

Cold,  could. 

Collatiouat,  collated,  examined 
word  by  word. 

Colourit,  pretended,  apparent. 

Comnaend,  a  benefice  in  commen- 
dam. 

Commendatar,  Commendator,  who 
enjoys  the  rents  of  an  Abbacy  or 
other  Benefice. 

Commoun,  common. 

Community,  commonality. 

Companyounis,  companions. 

Compeir,  appear. 

Compone,  agr-ee. 

Compt,  comptis,  account,  accounts. 

Comptit,  reckoned,  accounted. 

Conjured,  sworn. 

Consaif,  conceive. 

Consignit,  consigned,  safely  depo- 
sited. 

Consuetude,  custom. 

Contraryes,  opposers,  contradictors. 

Contynew,  continue. 

Convenit,  convened,  assembled,  met 
together. 

Conveyit,  conveyed. 

Conzie-house,  the  coining  or  mint- 
house. 

Conzied,  coined. 

Cope,  covering. 

Corse,  corpse. 


606 


GLOSSARY. 


Coule,  cowU,  a  cowl  or  cap. 

Coup,  cowp,  cup. 

CoAvhuby,  cowherd. 

Cowpit  up,  turned  upside  down. 

Craftis,  craftsmen. 

Craig,  craggis,  rock,  rocks. 

Craig,  throat. 

Crazit,  infiim. 

Creatit,  created. 

Creillis,     crealles,    panniers,     or 

wicker-baskets. 
Crock,  a  kind  of  musket. 
Croppin,  crejyt. 
Crown  of  the  Sun,  a  gold  coin  of 

the  value  of  18s. 
CuUorit,  pretended,  coloured. 
Cullroun,  silly  fellow. 
Culveringis,  firelocks. 
Cumed,  cumit,  come,  p)roceeded. 
Cummer,  trouble. 
Cunning,  skilful,  knowing. 
Cunzie  to  be  cunzeit,  m.oney  to  be 

coined. 
Cursing,  excommunication. 

D 

Dadding,  beating,  knocking. 
Dagg,  a  p)istol. 
Dagged,  shot  thickly. 
Dalye,  daily. 

Dampne,  damne,  condemn. 
Dantoun,  intimidate. 
Darnell,  a  common  iveed. 
Debtful,  due,  indebted. 
Debtfully,  duly. 
Decern!  t,  adjudged,  decreed. 
Decoir,  decorate. 
Decreyt,  decree. 
Decydit,  decided. 
Deid,  death  ;  deid,  died. 


Deidis,  deeds,  or  doings. 

Delatioun,  accusation. 

Delaytit,  delatit,  accused,  sum- 
moned. 

Demanit,  ill  used. 

Denude^  resign,  take  away. 

Depesclie,  depeches,  dispatch, 
dispatches. 

Deponar,  deponent. 

Deposed,  laid  down. 

Deprehended,  taken,  apprehended. 

Derthing,  dearth,  scarcity. 

Desone,  dozen. 

Desparat,  desperate,  hopeless. 

Desyres,  desires. 

Dettis,  debts. 

Devulgatt,  divulged. 

Dey,  die. 

Dictament,  dictation. 

Dicton,  a  motto,  inscription. 

Din,  noise. 

Ding,  defeat,  drive,  overcome. 

Disaguisit,  disguised. 

Dispite,  grudge. 

Dispone,  dispose. 

Dissait,  deceit. 

Disseased,  died,  deceased. 

Divagatioun,  ivandering. 

Divulgat,  divulged. 

Dochtir,  dowchter,  daughter. 

Domage,  damage. 

Dome,  domme,  dumb. 

Dome,  doom. 

Dong,  dung,  driven,  beat  down ; 
doung  back,  driven  back. 

Dontibouris. — Dr.  Jamieson  ex- 
plains this,  probably  courtezans. 

Dortour,  a  sleeping  place  or  dor- 
mitory. 

Dote,  dowry. 

Dotit,  dotted,  endoived. 


GLOSSARY. 


GOT 


Doun-thring,  pull  down,  oppress. 

Doutis,  doubts. 

Doutit,  doubted. 

Dow  (can),  can  effect. 

Dowbill,  double,  copy. 

Draw-brig,  draw-bridge. 

Drawin,  draivn. 

Dreddouris,  fears,  terrors. 

Dress,  manage,  prepare. 

Dressit,  addressed. 

Dryft  of  tyme,  lapse  of  time. 

Duck,  Duke. 

Duiris,  duris,  dui'Hs,  doors. 

Dule-wead,  mourning-garments. 

Dytit,  dictated. 

Dytement,  dittay,  indictment. 

Dyke,  ivall,  fence. 

E 

EfFauld,  anefald,  honest,  sincere. 

EiFayres,  affairs. 

EfFectuous,  effectual. 

EfFeiris,  concerns. 

Effeiris  (as),  as  accords. 

EfFray,  confusion,  fear. 

Effrayit,  afraid,  frightened. 

Eftir,  after. 

Eik,  eikit,  add,  added. 

Eik  (an),  an  addition. 

Eikand,  adding. 

Eird,  erd,  earth. 

Eirdit,  buried. 

Eirdly,  earthly. 

Eis,  eyis,  eyes. 

Eit,  eat. 

Ellis,  ells,  already,  also. 

Embassade,  embassage. 

Erne,  uncle,  kinsman. 

Emonge,  emongis,  among,  amongst. 

Empeach,  empesch,  oppose,  hinder. 


Empreasonment,  impi'isonment. 

Ensenzie,  standard,  banner. 

Enteress,  interest. 

Entres,  entrance,  access. 

Ere,  before. 

Erst,  already. 

Escliape,  escape. 

Eschaipit,  escaped. 

Escheitts,  escheats. 

Eschewit,  avoided. 

Esperance,  hope,  expectation. 

Espye,  perceive,  to  behold. 

Espyellis,  spies. 

Estaitis,  estates. 

Estimett,  esteemed. 

Evangell,  Gospel. 

Evinly,/fnV,  honest,  equal. 

Ewest,  towards,  nearest. 

Exerce,  exercise. 

Exonerit,  cleared,  acquitted. 

Expone,  expose,  explain. 

Exprimit,     exprymit,     expressed, 

mentioned. 
Extingeise,  extinguish. 
Extrye,  axle-tree. 


Fader,  father. 
Fais,  foes. 
Falcone,  a  cannon. 
Falsett,  falsehood. 
Fand,  found. 
Fard,  ardour,  violence. 
Fardei',  further. 
Fashous,  troublesome. 
Fassoun,  fashion. 
Faught,  fawgbt,  fought. 
Feads,  feuds. 
Feallis,  dependants. 
Fecht,  ficht,  fight. 


608 


GLOSSARY. 


Feir,  fere,  feiris, /ear, /ears. 

Fenzie,  feign. 

Fenzeit,  feigned,  dissembled. 

Ferd,  feird, /o?/riA. 

Ferses,  pageants. 

Fertour,  a  little  chest,  or  coffer. 

Fest,  fast. 

Figo-wi'eis,  figures,  types. 

Flambis,  flammes,  flames. 

Fleyed,  frightened. 

Flingaris,  dancers. 

Flyrt  and  flyi'e,  m,ock  and  deride. 

Fole,  foal. 

Foranent,  over-against. 

Forbearis,  ancestors. 

Forder,promote,ficrthe7\setfo7'wa7-d. 

Forespake,  foirspak,  foi'etold. 

Forgeit,  forged. 

Forgett,  forgotten. 

Forge  vance,  forgiveness. 

Forrow,  fo7'ay. 

Forsamekill,  for  as  much. 

Forsuith,  truly,  indeed,  verily. 

Foryett,  forget,  forgot. 

Foursuni,  some  four. 

Fowsee,  fowsees, /o5s,  ditches. 

Frack,  hold,  resolute;  maid  frack, 

made  ready,  prepared. 
Fracklie,  stoutly,  boldly. 
Fray,  fright,  panic. 
Frear,  friar. 
Freisit,  frozen. 
Fruct,  fructis,  fruit,  fruits. 
Fuillis, /oofe. 
Yule,  fool. 
Fulische,  foolish. 
Furiouris,  scouts,  also  a  foraging 

party. 
Fute,  i\xii,foot. 
Fye,  fie,/ce. 
Fylit,  guilty. 


G 


Ga,  go. 

Gadder,  gather. 
Gaitt,  street,  or  way. 
Galayis,  gallayis,  galleys. 
Gamound,  gawmound,  gambol. 
Gang,  gangand,  went,  going. 
Gangand  against,  complaining  of, 

opposing. 
Gangis,  goes,  or  leads  to. 
Garneyshed,  adorned,  garrisoned. 
Gar,  gart,  made,  compelled,  caused. 
Garreson,  garrison. 
Gat,  got. 

Gawfe,  burst  of  laughter. 
Gear,  wealth,  p)ossessions. 
Gefe,  geve,  gif,  gave. 
Gernall,  girnall,  granary. 
Gett,  bastard. 
Gevin,  gives. 
Gif,  if 
Gin,  if 
Glister,  lustre. 

Glondouris,  in  a  state  of  ill  humour. 
Glowming,  frowning. 
Gluffis,  gloves. 

Goddis  woundiSj  a  profane  oath. 
Gois,  goes. 

Good-night,  to  take  farewell. 
Gracis,  graces. 

Graith,  harness,  wares,  furniture. 
Grandschir,  grandfather. 
Greis,  degrees. 
Greit,  salute. 

Greit,  gi'eitting,  weep,  weeping. 
Greitness,  gi^andeur. 
Greitomlie,  greatly. 
Grit,  gi^eat. 

Gude,  guidis,  good,  goods. 
Gudlie,  conveniently. 


GLOSSARY. 


609 


Gmtchh^grandfather  bjjt/ie  mother^ 

side. 
Gyrth,  sanctuan/. 


H 


Habilitie,  ability,  capacity. 
Hable,  able,  qualified. 
Hackquebote,  baquebute,  hagbut, 

a  kind  of  short  musket. 
Haif,  have. 
Haill,  hoill,  whole. 
Hailsome,  wholesome. 
Haillely,  wholly. 
Haistyet,  made  haste. 
Halt,  baitterent,  hatred. 
Haldin,  held,  detained. 
Halse,  throat. 
Hame,  home. 
Hamesuckin,  a  laiv  term  for  beating 

or  assaulting  a  person  within  his 

oion  house. 
Happit,  boppid,  leaped,  skipped. 
Hard,  heard. 

Hard-beidis,  name  of  a  small  coin. 
Harle,  drag,  draw. 
Havand,  having. 
Hecbt,  promised. 
Hecbtis,  vows. 
Heicb,  high. 
Heicbar,  higher. 
Heid,  head. 
Heiranent,  therein. 
Heirfoir,  therefore. 
Helas,  alace. 

Helsumness,  whoUsomeness,  health. 
Helvetia,  Switzerland. 
Herbrie,  harbour. 
Herscbip,  berescbipe,  depredation, 

a  plundering  expedition. 
Hes,  has. 


Hie,  he. 

Hie,  high. 

Hie-gate,  high-street. 

Hingis,  hangs. 

Hipoticary,  apothecary. 

Hoggisb,  harsh,  swinish. 

Hoise,  hose. 

Hole,  bolesum,  tvhole,  wholesome. 

Holy,  boUie,  wholly. 

Hemlock,  hemlock. 

Hoore,  ivhore. 

Hoppeit,  leaped. 

Home,  put  to  tbe  born,  denounced 

a  rebel. 
Hot,  heat. 
Humill,  bumilly,  humble,  humbly. 


Ilk,  every. 

Eluster,  illustrious. 

Impescb,  hinder,  prevent. 

Impyi'e,  bear  rule,  govern. 

Incertaine,  uncertain. 

Incb,  small  isle,  or  island. 

Incke,  ink. 

Incontinent,  forthwith. 

Incredulitie,  unbelief. 

Increse,  increase. 

Induration,  hardness. 

Indurat,  indureit,  hardened,  impe- 
nitent. 

Induring,  during. 

Inemitie,  enmity. 

Inflamb,  inflame. 

Inflambed,  inflammed,  injlwned. 

Ingrait,  ungrateful. 

Ingynis,  ingenuity. 

InbabiU,  unable,  disable. 

Inlaik,  inlake,  deficient,  want,  ab- 
sence. 

2q 


610 


GLOSSARY. 


Inquiett,  disquiet. 

Insamekill,  insomuch. 

Insew,  ensue. 

Intrappit,  insnared. 

Intromittitj  intrometted,  meddled 
with. 

Intrused,  intruded. 

Irons  (prenting),  instruments  for 
coining. 

Ische,  the  act  of  coming  out,  pass- 
ing forth. 


Jacks,  quilted  garments  for  defence, 
coat-of-mail. 

Jackmen,  armed  followers. 

Jefwellis,  hnaves,  or  a  contemptuous 
expression,  equivalent  to  ^^  jail- 
bird," derived  from  javel,  jeffell, 
jail  or  2)rison. 

Joiss,  joyse,  enjoi/. 

Jouk,  stooj)  doivn. 

Jow  tlie  bell,  toll  the  hell. 

Jojousite,  pleasure. 

Justifieing  to  tlie  dead,  executed, 
put  to  death. 


K 


KecMng,  kitchen. 

Ken,  hnoio. 

Kendillit,  kendilled,  kindled. 

Kennand,  inticing,  directing. 

Kepid,  kept. 

Ketterelles,  hase  fellows. 

Kirk,  church. 

Knapped,  struck. 

Knapscall,  a  covering  for  the  head, 

a  head-piece. 
Knaw,  knoio. 


Knawlegand,  knowing. 

Knycht,  knight. 

Kow,  cow. 

Kyn,  kindred,  kin. 

Kystis,  chests. 

Kythed,  shown,  exhibited. 


Lack,  laik,  want. 

Laif,  loaf. 

Laik,  want,  deficiency. 

Laird,  {sometimes  written  Lord,) 
a  landholder,  under  the  degree 
of  a  Knight. 

Lakeing,  laclcing,  wanting. 

Lang,  long. 

Langis,  towards. 

Lapp  up,  leaped  up. 

Lap  in,  leaped  in. 

Lappit,  wrapped  up,  enclosed. 

Lassour,  leisure. 

Latt,  forbear. 

Lauchfull,  lawful. 

Lave,  leave. 

Lawis,  laws. 

Lawly,  lawlie,  lowly. 

Lefull,  leichfuU,  lawful. 

Leif,  leave. 

Leif,  as  leif,  tcilling. 

Leill,  true,  honest. 

Leis,  lyes. 

Leisingis,  falsehoods. 

Lentron,  time  of  Lent. 

Leprouse,  lepers,  afflicted  with  lep- 
rosy. 

Less-age,  non-age,  under-age. 

Lestand,  lasting. 

Lestit,  lasted. 

Lesum,  lawful. 

Lettin  down,  let  down. 


GLOSSARY. 


Gl 


Levandj  lioing. 

Levely,  lively. 

Lever,  rather. 

Levis,  lives. 

Leving,  living. 

Leyaris,  liars. 

Lichtness,  levity,  merriment. 

Lifting,  exacting,  levying. 

Liminis,  limhs. 

Lippin,  depend,  rely  vpon. 

Lois,  loss. 

Loppin,  leapt. 

Lothesomness,  very  loath,  unwill- 
ingness. 

Loup,  leap. 

Loveabill,  laudable,  alloivahle,  law- 
ful. 

Lovittis,  beloved. 

Lowsitt,  loosed. 

Ludgeit,  lodged. 

Lufe,  luif,  love. 

Luifsome,  lovely. 

Luifer,  lover. 

Luikj  look. 

Luiking,  looking. 

Lyck,  lyked,  lick,  licked. 

Lycour,  liquor. 

Lyek,  lyik,  lycke,  like. 

Lyeff,  lyff,  life. 

Lymmaris,  an  ojn^robrious  term., 
vagabonds. 

Lyne,  lain. 

Lytill,  little. 

M 

Mack,  maik,  make. 
Maid,  made. 
Maikis,  makes. 
Maill,  7'ent,  duty. 
Mair,  moj^e. 


Makand,  making. 

Malhure,  malleure,  misfortune. 

Mallapert,  arrogant,  presumptuous. 

Man,  maun,  must. 

Manassingis,  menacings,  threaten- 

ings. 
Mank,  deficient,  imperfect. 
Manrent  (bond  of),  engagerncnt  of 

a  vassal  to  his  superior. 
Marcat-croce,  market-cross. 
Mark,    mark,  a   silver  coin  of  the 

value  of  IBs.  Ad.  Scotish  money, 

or  Is,  \^d.  sterling. 
Marmouset,  a  little  monkey. 
Marrow,  mate,  fellow,  companion. 
Matynes,  matins,  morning  prayers. 
Meary,  mearely,  merry,  merrily. 
Meddill,  middle. 
Mekle,  meikle,  much. 
Mell,  meddle. 
Mensworn,  p)erjured. 
Ment,  meant. 

Menzie,  crowd  of  folloivers. 
Met,  measure. 
Metar,  meeter,  more  proper. 
Minister,  administer. 
Minstrel,  musician. 
Minzeonis,  minions. 
Mirk,  dark. 
Mister,  myster,  need. 
Mo,  more. 
Moder,  mother. 
Moist,  most. 
Mon,  must. 
Monifould,  manifold-. 
Mony,  many. 
Morn,  next  day. 
Morrion,  a  steel  cap  or  helmet. 
Mote,  may,  might. 
Movit,  moved. 
Moyen,  interest,  power. 


612 


GLOSSARY. 


Mummeris,  jesters. 
Murmour,  regret,  murinur. 
Myddis,  midst. 
Mylnes,  mills. 
Mynded,  proposed. 
Mynt,  aim  at,  essay. 

N 

Na,  no. 

Nakit,  naked. 

Namit,  named. 

Narrest,  nearest. 

Naturall,  disposition,  affection. 

Ne,  nor. 

Neffis,  fists. 

Nevelling,  blows  with  the  fists. 

Ney,  nigh. 

Nocht,  not. 

Nor,  than. 

Notour,  notorious,  well  known. 

Noumer,  number. 

Nowther,  nor,  neither. 

Nuik,  corner. 

Nune,  noon. 

Nuriss,  nurse,  also  nourish. 

Nychtbour,  neighbour. 

Nychtis,  nights. 

O 

Obleyst,  obliged. 

Oblissand,  obliging. 

Oblisse,  oblige. 

Of  befoir,  frequently,  oft  before. 

Officiaris,  officers. 

Ofter,  often. 

Ones,  once. 

Onless,  unless. 

Ony,  any. 

Oppin,  open. 


Oppinit,  opened. 

Oppone,  opponeing,  oppose,  oppos- 
ing. 
Or,  before. 
Oraison,  oration. 
Outher,  either. 
Oulk,  week. 
Oure,  owre,  over. 
Over-thorte,  across. 
Owerluikit,  overlooked. 
Owerqulielm,  overwhelm. 


Pacocke,  peacock. 

Paip,  Pope. 

Palyeanis,  pavilions. 

Palzeoun,  pavilion. 

Pane,  pains,  labour. 

Pannel,  a  criminal,  or  person  im- 
peached. 

Pareiss,  parish. 

Parochinaris,  parishioners. 

Parson,  person. 

Pasche,  Easter. 

Pasche-evin,  Easter-eve. 

Pasementit,  laced. 

Patrocinye,  patronage. 

Patron,  skipper,  master  of  a  vessel. 

Pauckis,  cunning,  sly  practices,  ar- 
tifice, 

Paynis,  pains. 

Peir,  pier,  equal. 

Peregryne,  stranger,  foreigner. 

Phrenesy,  imanity,  phrenzy. 

Pickis,  pikes. 

Vik.,  pitch.  .  . 

Placeboes,  parasites,  applauders. 

Plack,  a  small  coin,  the  third  of  a 
penny  sterling. 

Plaiges,  pledges,  hostages. 


GLOSSARY. 


613 


Piatt,  plan  or  model. 

Piatt,  plot. 

Playnit,  complained. 

Pleinyeing,  complaining. 

Plenzeitj  complained. 

Pleuch,  plough. 

Pock,  polkis,  bag,  bags. 

Policy,  jjolifi/,  form  of  government. 

Pollicie,  device. 

VoviiB,  posts,  gates. 

Pose,  poise,  hoard,  money  in  store. 

Posted,  postit,  sent,  communicated. 

Postis,  messengers. 

Pottingar,  apothecary. 

Poulder,  powder. 

Practick,  practises. 

Praysit,  praised. 

Prease,  press. 

Preassit,  attempted. 

Prechouris,  preachers. 

Preichit,  pi^eached. 

Preif,  proof. 

Presoneris,  prisoners. 

Prevented,  preceded,  going  before. 

Princes,  princess. 

Proclamit,  proclaimed. 

Proctours,  j^focurators,  proxies. 

Proiffit,  proved, 

Promittis,  engages,  promises. 

Proporte,  purport. 

Propyne,  offering. 

Propyned,  gift  presented. 

Provents,  revenues. 

Provyd,  providing. 

Puir,  pure,  ])oor. 

Puneist,  punist,  puuit>]ted. 

Pynouris,  loor-kmen,  pioneers. 


Quatt,  qidt,  relinquish. 


Quarrel,  quarrel,  cause,  interest. 

Quhair,  tvhere. 

Quhairas,  whereas. 

Quhais,  quhois,  whose. 

Quhame,  lohom. 

Quharintill,  wherein. 

Quhat,  what. 

Quliidder,  whither. 

Quhilk,  which. 

Quhill,  until. 

Quhilum,  sometimes,  deceased. 

Quhow,  how. 

Quhynger,  hanger,  a  short  broad- 

sivord. 
Quick,  living. 
Quitclaimis,  absolves,  renounces. 

R 

Raccompt,  account. 

Raid,  foray,  border  excursion. 

Raid,  7'ode. 

Rainzeis,  I'eins. 

Raiss,  rose. 

Rakeless,  rash. 

Rapper,  rapier. 

Rasit,  raised. 

Rawishe,  ravish. 

Rayd,  rode,  or  expedition. 

Reacomteris,  rencounters. 

Rebellours,  rebels. 

Reciproce,  reciprocal. 

Recklessnes,  rashness. 

Reclamit,  p)roclaimed. 

Recule,  recoil,  fall  bad-. 

'Reculling,  falling  back. 

Red,  read. 

Rede,  advice,  counsel. 

Reft,  ravaged. 

Refusand,  refusing. 

Regardand,  legarding. 


614 


GLOSSARY. 


Regentrie,  regency. 

Regiment,  government. 

Reid,  rode. 

Reif,  ravage,  theft. 

Reifeit,  plundered. 

Remanent,  remainder. 

Remeid,  remedy. 

Remit,  7-emission. 

Repugn,  impugn. 

Resett,  receive,  harhour. 

Resolute,  consonant,  agreeable  to. 

Ressait,  receipt. 

Ressavit,  received. 

Retearis,  retires. 

Revocalit,  recalled. 

Rewill,  rule. 

Rewyne,  ruin. 

Reyll,  reel,  stagger. 

Ring,  reign. 

Rive,  tear,  rend. 

Roose,  2)raise,  commend. 

Roundit,  whispered. 

Roung,  reigned. 

Rowme,  place. 

Rowpit,  cracked. 

Rubberie,  rohhery. 

Ruit,  root. 

Ruse,  boast. 

Rycbt,  right. 

Rynnis,  runs. 

Ryped,  searched. 

Ryvar,  ryvere,  river. 

Ryve,  tear. 


Sa,  so. 

Saccage,  spoil  or  pillage. 

Sacrate,  consecrated. 

Sackless,  guiltless. 

Sacklesslie,  innocently, vithont  guile. 


Saddest,  very  sad,  or  melancholy. 

Sair,  sore. 

Sait,  throne. 

Salfgard,  safeguard. 

Sail,  shall. 

Saltable,  open  to  assault. 

Samin,  same. 

vSanctis,  saints. 

Sark,  shirt. 

Saule,  saulis,  soul,  souls. 

Sawin,  soivn. 

Scabruslie,  doubtfully. 

Scaillis,  scaling-ladders. 

Schaike,  shake. 

Schavellings,  a  term  of  contempt 
applied  to  Churchmen  having 
their  heads  shaved. 

Schaw,  schawls,  show,  shows. 

Schawin,  shown. 

Sclio,  she. 

Schone,  shoes. 

Scbopped,  chopped,  struck. 

Schot,  shot. 

Schote,  schuitt,  shoot. 

Schuik,  shook. 

Schybaldis,  scybaldis,  mean,  worth- 
less fellows. 

Scbyftis,  shifts. 

Sclait,  sclaittis,  slate,  slates. 

Scouparis,  skijypers,  dancers. 

Scrippit,  mocked,  derided. 

Seallie,  sely,  silly,  helpless. 

Secritar,  secretary. 

Seidgit,  besieged. 

Seik,  sick. 

Seill,  seillis,  seal,  seals. 

Semblabile,  like. 

Sen,  then,  thereafter. 

Sen,  sensyne,  since. 

Send,  sent. 

Senzie,  synod,  assembly. 


GLOSSARY. 


G15 


Serk,  shirt. 

Sers,  search. 

Servitouris,  servants,  attendants. 

Sew,  saiv,  sow,  disperse. 

Sey,  sea. 

Seym,  seem. 

Schir,  sir. 

Schored,  threatened. 

Schort  space,  for  a  small  way. 

SchyriSj  shires.,  counties. 

Sic,  sick,  such. 

Sicht,  sight. 

Sicklyke,  also. 

Side,  signifies  long,  when  applied  to 

ivearing  apparel. 
Sindered,  parted,  separated. 
vSingular,  single. 
Skaill,  disperse,  separate. 
^k2k\v,  fright. 

Skairse,  scarce. 

Skaith,  harm,  prejudice,  hurt,  da- 
mage. 

Skaithless,  blameless,  harmless. 

Skarslie,  sparingly. 

Skeife,  powerful,  ivell  provided? 
probably  from  skaff,  food,  provi- 
sion. 

Skooft,  mocl-ed,  scoft. 

Skrimpled,  scorched. 

Skruiff,  applied  to  money  that  is 
both  thin  and  base. 

Slap,  slop,  breach  or  broken. 

Slepand,  sleeping. 

Sleekened,  quenched. 

Slogorne,  war-cry, 

Smaikis,  mean,  pusillanimous  fel- 
lows. 

Smored,  smothered. 

Smote,  blot  or  stain. 

Smyrk,  sinile. 

Snapparis,  sfumblrs. 


Sned,  pruned,  lopped  off. 
Snouttis,  heads,  beaks  of  x 
Socht,  sought. 
Soldartis,  soldiers. 
Solempn,  solemn. 
Solempnizat,  solemnized. 
Solist,  solicitous,  careful,  eager. 
Solistaris,  solicitors. 
Soliste,  solicite. 
Somer,  summer. 
Sone,  soon. 
Sone,  sun. 

Sonnar,  sonner,  sooner. 
Sowmis,  soumeis,  sums. 
Sowp,  souppit,  sup,  supped. 
Sowped,  souppit,  sivept. 
Sowtax",  shoemaker. 

Spack,  spake. 

Spanes,  Spanish. 

Sparsit,   sparsed,    spread  abroad, 
circidated. 

Speirit,  asked,  inquired. 

Speris,  spears. 

Splentis,  armour  for  the  legs. 

Sponk,  spark. 

Spreat,  Spreit,  the  Holy  Spirit. 

Spulzie,  spoils. 

Spulzeit,  spuilzeid,  spoiled,  plun- 
dered. 

Spune,  horn-spoon. 

Spurtill,  a  ivooden  stick  used  for 
stirring  j)ottage  when  boiling. 

Stableis,  establish. 

Stabillis,  stables. 

Stall,  stole. 

Stammered,   staggered,  or  throivn 
down. 

Stane,  stainis,  stone,  stones. 

Stark,  strong. 

Stark  money,  good  coin. 

Stay,  hindrance. 


616 


GLOSSARY. 


Steik,  shut. 

Steikand,  shutting. 

Steir  thair  taills,  bestir  tJtemselves. 

Sticked,  run  through. 

Stogged,  stabbed. 

Stoir^  store. 

Stoole,  stuill,  pulpit. 

Stope,  hindrance. 

Stowth,  theft. 

Stracking  saill,  shortening  sail. 

Strakis,  straikis,  bloios. 

Strang,  strong. 

Strowit,  covered,  streiced. 

Stryck,  strike. 

Strykin — the   field    was   strykin, 

fought,  the  battle  was  fought. 
Sturt,  disturbance,  grief,  trouble. 
StyfF  (haldeth),  holdethfast. 
Stylit,  stiled,  designed. 
Sua,  so. 

Subdittis,  subjects. 
Subscryve,  siibscribe. 
Subscrivit,  subscry ving,  subscribed, 

subscribing. 
Suddartis,  soldiers. 
Sueir,  swear. 
Suir,  sure. 
Suld,  should. 
Sum,  some. 
Sumquhat,  somewhat. 
Suppostis,  folloivers,  adherents. 
Surfett,  surface. 
Suyttis,  suytit,  suits,  solicited. 
Suyting,  soliciting. 
Swash,  a  drum. 

Sweard,  sweardis,  sivord,  swords. 
Swongeoris,  drones,  sluggards. 
Swynge,  rule. 
Syndre,  sundry. 
Syne,  afterwards. 
Sythense,  since. 


T 


Tabornes,  tabors. 

Tack,  take. 

Tackin,  taikin,  taking. 

Taigill,  retard,  hinder,  entangle. 

Take,  taken. 

Takinnis,  taikinnis,  tokens. 

Takkis,  leases. 

Tanted,  taunted,  reproached. 

Tants,  tatints. 

Targetting  of  thair  tallies,  border- 
ing their  gowns  with  tassels. 

Tarie,  sta//. 

Teiris,  tears. 

Tendernes  of  blood,  proximity  of 
blood. 

Teythes,  tythes. 

Thai,  they. 

Thairfoir,  therefore. 

Thairfrae,  from  thence. 

Thak,  thatch. 

Tham,  them. 

Thare,  thair,  there. 

Thei,  these. 

Theiranent,  thereabout. 

The  self,  itself 

Thinkand,  thinking. 

Thir,  these. 

Thocht,  though,  although. 

Thole,  thoill,  tboillis,  suffer,  nn- 
dergo,  endures. 

Thrall,  enslave,  overcome. 

Thriddis,  thi-id,  third,  third  part. 

Thrist,  thristit,  longing,  desired. 

Throcht,  throwght,  through. 

Thrustit,  thirsted. 

Thyne,  thence. 

Tickattis,  placards. 

Till,  to,  unto. 

Tint,  lost. 


GLOSSARY. 


617 


Tirrit,  teased,  stript. 

Tolbouth,  the  prison,  also  the  place 

u'here   sometimes    the    Courts   of 

Justice  sat. 
Toome,  tume,  empty. 
Tor  of  the  chyre,  arm  of  the  chair. 
Tovvartis,  toiuards,  to. 
Traist,  trust. 
Trap,  entrap. 

Travailled,  endeavoured,  laboured. 
Trawall,  travaill,  travel. 
Treatie,  treatise. 
Tressoun,  treason. 
Trow,  believe. 
Trjist,  aj)pointment. 
Tryit,  tryed. 
Trynschis,  trenches. 
Trysting,  appointing. 
Tuck,  tuick,  tooTc. 
Tuich,  tueich,  touch. 
Turnpike,  winding  stairs. 
Turse,  carry,  (in  bundles  or  turses.) 
Tweiched,      tweiching,     touched, 

touching. 
Tweich-stone,  touch-stone. 
Tykis  (mastif),  mastiff  dogs. 
Tymmer,  timber. 
Tymous,  betimes,  early. 
Tyne,  lose, 
Tynsall,  loss. 
Tynt,  lost. 
Tyran,  tyrant. 
Tytillis,  titles. 

U 

Umquliill,  late,  deceased. 
Uncunzeit,  uncoined. 
Underly,  lie  under,  undergo. 
Uuderstand,  understood. 
Unhap,  unhappy,  unhappiness. 


Unhappe,  misfortune,  mischance. 

Unknawin,  unknown. 

Unleisum,  unlawful. 

Upfall,  ivhat  casts  up,  an  incident. 

Uphald,  uphold. 

Utermaist,  iittermost. 

Utheris,  others. 

Uttermost    prick,    extreme    point, 

the  smallest  iota. 
Utvvith,  ivithout. 


Vaik,  vaking,  vacant. 
Valable,  valid. 
Valour,  value. 
Veray,  verray,  very. 
Veseit,  visited. 
Vincust,  vanquished. 
Visie,  visit. 
VissornCj  mark. 

VivariSj    viweris,  provisions,  vic- 
tuals. 
Voce,  voces,  voice,  voices. 
Voit,  vote. 

W 

Wadset,  wodset,  mortgaged. 
Wae,  sorroivfid,  grieved. 
Wait,  God  wait,  wot,  God  knows. 
Walkryfe,  watchfid,  carefid. 
Walkynit,  walknit,  awaked  out  of 

sleep. 
Wan,  did  ivin. 

Wan-weird,  had  or  ill  fortune. 
Wappinis,  iveapons. 
War,  icere. 
War,  ivorse. 
Wardill,  warld,  world. 
Wardit,  in  rcard  or  custody. 


618 


GLOSSARY. 


Wark,  work. 

Was,  in  the  singular  number  often- 
times for  were. 
Wat-nocht,  understood  not. 
Way  it,  weighed,  considered. 
Wecht,  weight. 
Wedder,  weather. 
Weddir,  sheep. 
We  do  you  wit,  Tcnoiv  ye. 
Weill,  weall,  ivell^  welfare. 
Weris,  wa^^s. 
Was,  wa^. 

Weseing,  visiting,  vieiving. 
Weyit,  tveighed,  considered. 
Wtais,  whose. 
While,  whill,  until. 
Whilk,  lohich. 
Whill,  a  while,  for  a  time. 
Whinger,  a  short  broad-sword. 
Whyder,  ivhether. 
Wief,  wieffis,  wife^  wives. 
Wirk,  work. 
Wirking,  working. 
Wirschep,  worship. 
Wissit,  loished. 
Witt,  wyte,  blame. 
Wod,  mad. 
Wold,  would. 
Wolter,  overturn. 
Wousche,  washed. 
Wowaris,  wooers. 
Wraitt,  wrett,  wrote. 
Wrak,  wrong,  undoing. 


Wretar,  ivriter. 

Wrocht,  wrought. 

Wyif,  wife. 

Wynd,  wind,  street,  lane. 

Wyndock,  window. 

Wyning,  gaining. 

Wyrk,  loork. 

Wyrschipping,  worshipping. 

Wyseit,  wysit,  visited,  viewed. 

Wyte,  blame. 


Yaird,  yard. 

Ydill,  idle. 

Ye,  ye,  you,  yea. 

Yea,  yea. 

Yead,  yeid,  went. 

Yeid,  ivent. 

Yeiris,  years. 

Yerne,  yrn,  iron. 

Yett,  yettis,  gate,  gates. 

Yett,  yit,  yet. 

Yle,  isle,  island. 

Yillis  (the),  the  Isles. 

Yneuche,  ynewcht,  enough. 

Yond  syd,  the  other  side. 

Ypocreit,  hypocrite. 

Ys,  is. 

Yscheare,  usher. 

Ytt,  it. 

Yule,  Youle,  Yuile,  Christmas. 


ODEX  OF  PERSONS. 


AuERBROTHOK,  Commendator  of, 

V.  Hamilton,  Lord  John. 
Aberdeen,  Bishop  of,  v.  Dunbar. 
Adamson,  Elizabeth,  wife  of  James 

Barroun,  246,  247. 
Adamson,  William,  07- 
Aikman,  Francis,  97. 
Airthe,  Friar  William,  36,  39,  41. 
Alareit,  Hermit  of,  v.  Thomas. 
Alasco,  John,  243. 
Alesius,  Alexander,  55.  App.526. 
Allemagne,  (Germany,) Princes  of, 

II.  5Q. 
Amiens,  Bishop  of,  (Nicholas  de 

Pelleve,)  396,  398,  415,  422, 

425. 
Anderson,  Mr.  Alexander,  Princi- 
pal of  King's  College,  II.  138, 

140. 
Anderson,  William,  118. 
Angus,   Archibald,    Earl   of,   77, 

78,   111,   120,   173,  180,  211, 

212,  217.    . 
Annan,  Dean  John,  188. 
Anstruther,     Capt.    Robert,     II. 

330. 
Arbuckill,  Gray  Friar,   197,  199. 
Areskine,  v.  Erskiue. 
Argyle,  Archibald  fourth  Earl  of, 

93,   108,   211,  217,   253,  274, 

276-290. 


Argyle,  Archibald  Lord  Lorn, 
fifth  Earl  of,  249,256,  268,  274, 
294,  337,  341,  345,  347,  350, 
353,  358,  360,  369,  375,  382, 
383,  41.3,  451,  453,  458.  IL  5, 
49,  50,  5.3,  5%,  57,  63,  70,  167, 
258,  286,  299,  305,  310,  375, 
377,  379,  403,  423,  479,  484, 
490,  491,  494,  496,  507,  524, 
527,  530,  556,  563,  b^Q. 

Argyle,  Janet  Countess  of,  v. 
Stewart. 

Armstrong,  Andrew,  II.  394,  395, 
400. 

Arran,  James  first  Earl  of,  107. 

Arran,  Earl  of,  x.  Chattelherault. 

Arran,  James  third  Earl  of,  183, 
184,  383,  413,  420,  423,  427, 
439,  451,  455,  460,  462,  464. 
IL  3,  5,  7,  9,  38,  43,  53,  55,  5^, 
63,  129,  137,  156,  167,  258, 
273,  293,  298,  315,  323,  325, 
326,  328,  329,  473. 

Athole,  John  fourth  Earl  of,  II. 
156,  286,  299,  305,  390,  479, 
483,  491,  494,  497,  507,  510, 
512,  514,  519,  523,  536,  55^, 
557,  560,  566. 

Auchinleck,  .John,  233. 

Aylmer,  John,  Bishop  of  London, 
n.  26,  278. 

Ayr,  Sheriffs  of,  v.  Campbells  of 
Loudoun  and  Terincjland. 


620 


INDEX  OP  PERSONS. 


B 


Balcleuch,  v.  Scott. 

Balfour,  Andrew,  44. 

Balfour,  David  and  Gilbert,  sons 
of  Balfour  of  Montquhannie, 
183,  206,  233,  551. 

Balfour,  Gilbert,  II.  551. 

Balfour,  Mr.  James,  Parson  of 
Flisk,  (afterwards  Sir  James 
Balfour  of  Pittendreich,)  Clerk 
Register,  202,  206,  228,  233, 
235,365,399,437,452.  11.44, 
502,  507,  526,  549,  558,  562. 

Balfour,  Mr.  John,  377. 

Balfour,  Michael,  456. 

Balgonie,  Laird  of,  v.  Lundie. 

Balnaves,  Mr.  Henry,  of  Halhill, 
70,  99,  102,  106,  114,  116, 
182,186,226.  11.38,40,45, 
47,  52,  381. 

Balwaird,  Balvaird,  v.  Murray. 

Bannatyne,  Sir  John,  v.  Bellenden. 

Bar,  Laird  of,  v.  Lockhart. 

Barnbougle,  Laird  of,  ??.  Mowbray. 

Barbour,  David,  222. 

Barroun,  James,  burgess  of  Edin- 
burgh, 246,  268.  II.  322,  486. 

Barroun,  Elizabeth,  v.  Adamson. 

Bathgate,  Reader  at,  II.  548. 

Battu,  Captain,  II.  10. 

Beaton,  David,  Cardinal,  Arch- 
bishop of  St.  Andrews,  61,  63, 
76,  81,  84,  90,  92,  94,  97,  99, 
103,  108,  passim,  180,  192, 
206,  290,  294,  307,  430. 

Beaton,  James,  Archbishop  of  St. 
Andrews,  13,  15,  42,46,  53. 

Beaton,  James,  Archbishop  of 
Glasgow,  252,  373.     IL  131. 

Bedford,  Earl  of,  II.  513,  536. 


Bell,  Stephen,  233. 

Bellenden  or  Bannatyne,  Sir 
John,  of  Auchinoul,  Justice- 
Clerk,  358,  369,  399,  418, 
458.  II.  291,  299,  304,  305, 
310,  344,  401,  403,  414,  423, 
454,  492,  497,  526. 

Bellenden,  Thomas,  of  Auchinoul, 
Justice-Clerk,  70,  106. 

Bellenden,  Lady,  v.  Kennedy. 

Bethencourt,  v.  Butoncourt. 

Beverage,  Friar,  62. 

Beza,  Theodore,  II.  547. 

Bishops  and  Pastors  in  England, 
II.  547. 

Bisso,  or  Busso,  Francis  de,  II. 
507,  551. 

Black,  Friar  John,  IL  68.  App. 
592-595. 

Blackader,  Robert,  Archbishop  of 
Glasgow,  7,  11,  12. 

Borthwick,  Mr.  David,  of  Lochill, 
106,  414.     IL  44. 

Borthwick,  Captain  John,  (Sir 
John,)  61.  App.  520,  533,534. 

Borthwick,  John  fourth  Lord,  II. 
53. 

Bothwell,  Adam,  Bishop  of 
Orkney,  II.  555. 

Bothwell,  David,  106. 

Bothwell,  Patrick,  third  Earl  of, 
108,  1.37,  138,  140,  143. 

Bothwell,  James,  fourth  Earl  of, 
created  Duke  of  Orkney,  455, 
456,459.  11.3,38,156,286, 
315,  320,  323,  325,  326,  329, 
346,  351,  361,  390,  472,  478, 
509,  512,  514,  520,  521,  524, 
527,  528,  534,  539,  548-562. 

Bothwell,  Countess  of,  v.  Gordon. 

Bonrdeau,  John  de,  II.  551. 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


621 


Bowes,  Elizabeth,  253. 

Bowes,  Marjory,  wife  of  John 
Knox,  2.53.     II.  138. 

Bowes,  Captain  Richard,  78. 

Bowes,  Sir  Robert,  77,  78,  219. 

Boyd,  Robert  of  Piedmont,  II.  350. 

Boyd,  John,  of  Narston,  II.  349. 

Boyd,  Robert  Lord,  340,345,369, 
382,414,434.  II.  38,53,56, 
58,  63,  129,  258,  299,  348,  496, 
499,  503,  523,  552,  556,  563. 

Boyd,  Master  of,  II.  349. 

Boyle,  Archibald,  II.  350. 

Boyne,  Laird  of,  v.  Ogilvie. 

Brechin,  Bishops  of,  v.  Hepburn, 
Sinclair. 

Briance,  Count  de,  French  Am- 
bassador, II,  536. 

Broche,  M.  de  la,  v.  La  Broche. 

Brounstone,  Laird  of,  v.  Crichton. 

Brown,  George,  of  Colstoun,  350. 

Brown,  Sir  Adam,  (a  priest,)  361. 

Brown,  Ryngzean  (Ninian),  97. 

Bruce,  Sir  William,  of  Earlshall, 
307. 

Buccleuch,  V.  Scott. 

Bucer,  Martin,  II.  442. 

Buchan,  Master  of,  v.  Stewart. 

Buchanan,  Mr.  David,  (Editor  of 
Knox's  History),  App.  477.  II. 
465-468.     App.  569-586. 

Buchanan,  Mr.  George,  71.  II. 
134,  550. 

Butonecourt,  (Sieur  de  Bethen- 
court,)  384.     II.  37. 


Cairnis,  Henry,  57. 
Caithness,  George  Earl  of,  II.  299, 
420,  523,  552,  569. 


Calder,  Laird  of,  v.  Sandiland.s. 
Calvin,  John,  232,  268,  274,  315. 

II.  442,  459,  460. 
Cambuskenneth,    Abbots    of,    v. 

Myln,  Panter. 
Campbell,  Friar  Alexander,  16, 18. 

App.  514. 
Campbell,    Alexander,    Dean    of 

Murray,  II.  129,  258. 
Campbell,     Charles,    burgess    of 

Ayr,  II.  349. 
Campbell,  Sir  Colin,  of  Glenurchy, 

253,  357. 
Campbell,  George,  of  Cessnok,  7, 

340. 
Campbell,   George,  of   Mungars- 

wood,  128. 
Campbell,  Sir  Hugh,  of  Loudoun, 

Sheriff  of  Ayr,  111,  128,  31 G. 

IL  137. 
Campbell,     Hugh,    of    Kinyean- 

cleuch,  128. 
Campbell,  John,  of  Newmylnes,  7. 
Campbell,  James,  of  Louchley,  II. 

350. 
Campbell,    Matthew,   of  Tering- 

land,    young   Sheriff   of    Ayr, 

340,  345. 
Campbell,  Sir  Matthew,  of  Lou- 
doun, II.  348. 
Campbell,  Mungo,  of  Brounsyde, 

128. 
Campbell,   Robert   of    Cragdow, 

IL  350. 
Campbell,    Robert,  of  Kinyean- 

cleuch,  250,  253.     II.  63,  275, 

349. 
Campbell,     William,     of     Hors- 

cleucht,  IL  350 
Campbell,   William,  of   Skeldon, 

II.  349. 


022 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS, 


Capua,  Prior  of,  v  Strozzi. 
Cardinal,  the,  v.  Beaton,  David. 
Car,  V.  Ker. 

Carmicliael,  James,  259. 
Carmichael,   Peter,   of  Balmadie, 

176,  226,  228,  230. 
Carmichael,  Richard,  44. 
Carpentyue,  Alexander,  2.59. 
Carnegie,  Sir  Robert,  of  Kinnaird, 

400,  414. 
Carvet,  Sir  James,  II.  476,  478. 
Carnell,  Laird  of,  v.  Wallace. 
Carswell,   Mr.  John,  Superinten- 
dent of  Argyle,  II.  87. 
Cassillis,    Gilbert  third   Earl   of, 

16,  86,  111,  134,  263. 
Cassillis,    Gilbert  fourth  Earl  of, 

II.  478,  514,  .53.3,  552. 
Cathcart,  Allan  Lord,  11.348,563. 
Cathcart,   Allan,   of  Carlton,    II. 

350. 
Cathcart,  Allan,  of  Clawance,  II. 

349. 
Cathcart,  Allan  and  Thomas,  II. 

349. 
Cathcart,  John,  of  Gibbsyard,  II. 

349. 
Cecil,  Sir  William,  IL  15,  23,26, 

32,  34,  72,  315. 
Cesnock,  v.  Campbell. 
Cessfurd,  Laird  of,  v.  Ker. 
Chalmer,  Helen,  wife  of  Robert 

Mure  of  Pokellie,  7. 
Chalmer,    James,    of    Gadgirth, 

257,  340.     II.  349. 
Chalmer,  Marion,  wife  of  William 

Dalrymple  of  Stairs,  7. 
Chalmer,    Robert,    of   Martnem, 

II.  350. 
Chalmers,  David,  of  Ormond,  II. 

551. 


Chapman,  William,  222. 

Charles  the  Fifth,  the  Emperor, 
232.     II.  135,  136. 

Charles  the  Ninth,  King  of  France, 
IL  318. 

Charteris,  ( Charterouse,)  John, 
of  Kinfauns,  Provost  of  Perth, 
112,  346,  357. 

Charterhouse  of  Perth,  Prior  of, 
V.  Forman. 

Chattelett,  (Chastelard,)  Monsieur, 
IL  367,  368. 

Chattelherault,  James  Earl  of  Ar- 
ran,  Duke  of,  Governor  and  Re- 
gent of  Scotland,  84, 93, 97, 101, 
108-123,  134,  135,  140,  144, 
154,  180,  183,  184,  202,  206, 
209,  214,  217,  222,  233,  240, 
242,  294,  325,  340,  345,  352, 
356,  368,  379,  383,  389,  394, 
415,  420,  429,  439,  441,  451, 
453,  457,  458,  465,  472.  XL 
5,  38,  40,  42,  45,  47,  50,  52, 
54,  58,  81,  129,  138,  156,  258, 
286,  297,  299,  320,  325,  328, 
330,  347,  35],  360,  403,  417, 
423,  481,  492,  496,  499,  503, 
515,  535,  566. 

Chisholm,  William,  Bishop  of 
Dunblane,  63.  II.  88,  556. 

Christian  the  Third,  King  of  Den- 
mark, 55,  254.     II.  56. 

ChristisoD,  William,  Minister  of 
Dundee,  II.  87,  4^4. 

Clapperton,  Sir  John,  Dean  of  the 
Chapel  Royal,  45. 

Clark,  Alexander,  231.     IL  490. 

Clark,  (one,)  457- 

Cleisch,  Laird  of,  v.  Colville. 

Cockburn,  Mr.  Alexander,  185. 
IL  324,  331. 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


623 


Cockbuni,  James,  of  Langtou,  552. 
Cockburn,    John,    of"    Ormiston, 

134,  13S,  141,  185,  215,  350, 

375,  454.     II.  38,  323,  527. 
Cockburn,  Capt.  Niniau,  224. 
Coldingham,  Prior  of,  v.  Stewart, 

Lord  John. 
Coldiugknowes,    Laird    of,     (Sir 

John  Home,)  115. 
Colston,  Laird  of,  v.  Brown. 
Colville,  Robert,  of  Cleish,  348. 

IL  G8. 
Colville,  "William,  Abbot  of  Cul- 

ross,   IL   53,    88,   258.      App. 

598. 
Conde,  Louis  de  Bourbon,  Prince 

of,    (brother   of    the   King   of 

Navarre,)  II.  133. 
Congregation,    the   Lords  of  the, 

327,  &c.,  jjassim,  IL  45. 
Corry,   George,  of  Kelwood,  II. 

258,  350. 
Craig,  (Craik,)  Alison,  H.  315. 
Craig,  Mr.  John,  Minister,  II.  418, 

424,  456,  498,  530,  554,  555, 

563. 
Craigie,  Laird  of,  v.  Wallace. 
Craigmiller,  Laird  of,  v.  Preston. 
Cranstoun,  Patrick,  II.  64,  394, 

400. 
Craufurd,  David  eighth  Earl  of, 

90. 
Craufurd,  David  Earl  of,  n.  563. 
Craufurd,  David,  IL  349. 
Craufurd,    David,  of  the  Kerse, 

IL  350. 
Craufurd,  George,  of  Leifnorris,  or 

Loch  Norris,  127.     H.  349. 
Crawford,  John,  of  Walston,   II. 

348. 
Crauford,  Robert,  II.  349. 


Craw,  Paul,  the  Bohemian,  6. 

Creychton,  v.  Crichton. 

Crichtou,  Mr.  Abraham,  Provost 
of  Dunglas,  II.  528. 

Crichton,  Alexander,  of  Brun- 
stone,  134,  139,  142,  215. 

Crichton,  Edward,  Lord,  of  San- 
quhar, II.  258,  560,  565. 

Crichton,  George,  Bishop  of  Dun- 
keld,  97,  105. 

Crichton,  Robert,  Bishop  of  Dun- 
keld,  251.     IL  88,  300,  303. 

Crichton,  Mr.  Robert,  of  Eliock, 
King's  Advocate,  II.  491. 

Crichton,  Mr.  Robert,  Parson  of 
Sanquhar,  II.  371,  379. 

Crofts,  Sir  James,  English  Am- 
bassador, 454.     IL  32,  57,  66. 

Crossraguell,  Abbot  of,  v.  Ken- 
nedy. 

Cullen,  Capt.  James,  II.  13. 

Culross,  Abbot  of,  v.  Colville. 

Cumming,  Cumyn, Robert,  school- 
master, II.  363. 

Cunningham,  Alexander,  v.  Glen- 
cairn,  Earl  of. 

Cunningham,  Hugh,  of  Watter- 
ston,  n.  349. 

Cunningham,  John,  of  Caprington, 
H.  349. 

Cunningham,  Robert,  II.  349. 

Cunningham,  Mr.  Robert,  min- 
ister of  Failfurd,  IL  348, 
397. 

Cunningham,  Sir  "William,  of 
Cunningharahead,  366.  II.  64, 
258,  349,  486,  499,  503. 

Cunningham,  William,  H.  349. 

Cunningham,  William  of  Cap- 
rington younger,  IL  349. 


624 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


D 


D'Albeuf,  Marquis,  v.  Lorraine. 
Dalrymple,  Jame.s,  of  Stairs,  II. 
349. 

Dalrymple  of  Stairs,  v.  Chalmer. 

D'Amville,  Seigneur  de,  II.  268. 

Dandelot,  Monsieur,  216. 

D'Arfe,  Monsieur,  220. 

Darnley,  Henry  Lord,  v.  Henry. 

Davie,  Seigneur,  v.  Riccio. 

Daniot,  John,  II.  521. 

Dayes,  Adam,  57. 

De  Bethencourt,  v.  Butonecourt. 

De  Finola,  Thomas,  II.  457. 

De  Four,  ]\Ionsieur,  French  Am- 
bassador, II.  513. 

Denmark,  King  of,  v.  Christian. 

D'Esse,  Monsieur,  221,  222. 

Dewar,  Archibald,  II.  158. 

Dingwall,  Sir  John,  42. 

Dollar,  Vicar  of,  v.  Forrest. 

D'Omall,  D'Aumale,  v.  Lorraine. 

Dosell,  D'Oysel,  v.  Oysel. 

Douglas,  Archibald,  of  Kilspindie, 
Provost  of  Edinburgh,  II  158, 
289,  475,  490,  498. 

Dougla-s,  Francis,  185. 

Douglas,  George,  185. 

Dougla.s,  Sir  George,  brother  of 
the  Earl  of  Angus,  77,  78,  102, 
111,  128,  135,  180,  241. 

Douglas,  George,  postulat  of 
Aberbrothok,  and  bastard  son 
of  the  Earl  of  Angus,  173,  180. 

Douglas,  Hugh,  of  Longniddry, 
134,  13.9,  185,  note. 

Douglas,  James,  of  Parkheid,  78. 

Douglas,  Mr.  John,  Rector  of  St. 
Andrews,  286,  rao^«.  II.  128, 
424,  455,  563. 


Douglas,    or   Grant,    John,    256, 

276,  283,  285,   286,  307. 
Douglas,  Lady  Margaret,  Coun- 
tess of  Lennox,  123.     11.336, 
361,  474. 

Douglas,  Mr.  Robert,  Provost  of 
Lincluden,  II.  386. 

Douglas,  Patrick,  II.  63. 

Douglas,  Sir  "William,  of  Drura- 
lanrig.  111.  II.  64,  129,  258, 
299,  386,  502,  512. 

Douglas,  "William,  of  "Whitting- 
ham,  II.  63,  164. 

Douglasses,  The,  53,  81,  181. 

Dreghorn,  Laird  of,  v.  FuUerton. 

Drumlanrig,  Laird  of,  v.  Douglas. 

Drummond,  David  Lord,  11.  299, 
5G3. 
j    Drummond,  Henry,  of  Riccarton, 
251,  376.       IL  325,  478. 

Dudley,  Lord  Robert,  II.  361. 

Dudley,  Captain,  224. 

Duke,  the,  v.  Chattelherault. 

Dun,  Laird  of,  v.  Erskine. 

Dunbar,  Alexander,  of  Cumnock, 
n.  63. 

Dunbar,  Gawin,  Bishop  of  Aber- 
deen, 43. 

Dunbar,  Gawin,  Lord  Chancellor 
and  Archbishop  of  Glasgow, 
63,  65,  127,  145,  148. 

Dunbar,  Hector,  of  Clousting,  II. 
350. 

Dunbar,  Lieutenant  John,  463. 

Dunbar,  John,  of  Blantyre,  II. 
349. 

Dunfermling,  Abbots  of,  v.  Dury. 

Dunblane,  Bishop  of,  v.  Chisholm. 

Dundee,  Provost  of,  v.  Halyburton. 

Dunkeld,  Bishop  of,  v.  Crichton. 

Durham,  I\Ir.  Michael,  106. 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


625 


Durham,  AYilliam,  of  Grange,  II. 
486. 

Dury,  Andrew,  Bishop  of  Gallo- 
way, 242,  26']. 

Dury,  David,  of  Dury,  II.  43. 

Dury,  George,  Abbot  of  Dunferm- 
line, 183,  211,  224.     II.  131. 


E 


Earlshall,  Laird  of,  v.  Bruce. 

Eccles,  Gilbert,  II.  349. 

Edinburgh,  Provosts  of,  v.  Doug- 
las of  Kilspindie  ;  Mackalzean  ; 
PrestounofCraigmillar;  Seyton, 
George  Lord. 

Edward,  King,  the  Sixth  of  Eng- 
land, 101,  217,  231,  242. 

Eglinton,  Earl  of,  11.  519,  530. 

Elder,  Sir  Henry,  a  priest,  118. 

Elder,  John,  118.     App.  .'526. 

Elizabeth  Queen  of  England,  473. 
II.  1.5,  20,  26,  28,  39,  47,  51, 
54,  62,83,  130,  137,  168,  174, 
178,  315,  335,  346,  360,  469, 
473,  481,  513,  537. 

Elphinston,  Mr.  Nicholas,  II.  496. 

Embden,  Duchess  of,  245. 

Emperor,  the,  v.  Charles  the  Fifth. 

England,  Bishops  and  Ministers 
of,  II.  545,  547. 

English  Congregati(m  at  Franck- 
fort  and  Geneva,  232,  253. 

Ergyle,  v.  Argyle. 

Erskine,  Areskin,  Alexander,  374. 
IL  499,  501. 

Erskine,  Arthur,  II.  288. 

Erskine,  John  fifth  Lord,  79,  249, 
358,  369,  375,  415,  464.  II.  3, 
69,  128,  299,  305,  494,  515.— 
r.  Mar,  Earl  of. 


Erskine,  John,  of  Dun,  59,  132, 
246,  249,  251,  268,  273,  274, 
300,  317,  319,  337,  341,  347, 
369,  434,  451.  IL  b%,  87, 
286,  363,  386,  388,  409,  424, 
475,  479,  482,  484,  494,  531. 

Erskine  of  JMar,  Lady,  v.  Murray. 

Erskine,  Robert,  Master  of,  213. 

Evers,  Sir  Ralph,  J  22. 


Failfurd,  Minister  of,  v.  Cunning- 
ham. 
Fairnie,  Laird  of,  v.  Fernie. 
Fairnihurst,  Laird  of,  v.  Ker. 
Faunhaus,  (  ,)  11.  64. 

Fen  ton,  George,  IL  258. 
Fergushiir,    John,    of   Fergushill, 

IL  349. 
Fergusson,    David,    Minister    of 

Dunfermling,  II.  87. 
Fernie,  Andrew,  of  Fernie,  463. 
Firth,  John,  v.  Fryth. 
Flemyng,    Malcolm    third    Lord, 

86,  %9,. 
Flemyng,  James  fourth  Lord,  241, 

264. 
Flemyng,  John  fifth  Lord,  II.  299, 

563. 
Flemyng,  Malcolm,  Commendator 

of  Whitehorn,  II.  370,  379. 
Flisk,  Parson  of,  v.  Balfour, 
Forbes,  Captain,  456. 
Forbes,  (Phorbes),  John,   Master 

of,  IL  63,  552. 
Forbes,  the  Lady,  II.  358. 
Forman,  Adam,  323. 
Forman,    Robert,  Lyon-King-at- 

Arms,  335,  340,  440,  449.    11. 

274. 

2r 


626 


llsDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


Forrest,  Henry,  of  Linlithgow,  52, 

53.     App.  51G-518. 
Forrest,  (Forres,)  David,  General 

of   the    Mint,    106,   137,  24C, 

260,  300,  453.  App.  563,  564. 
Forrest,'  Dean  Thomas,  Vicar  of 

Dollar,  63. 
Forrester,  Robert,  62. 
Forsyth,  -James,  of  Nydie,  193. 
Foulis,    Sir  .James,    of   Colinton, 

Clerk- Register,  104. 
Fowler,  an  Englishman,  II.  507. 
Foxe,    John,    the    Martyrologist, 

14. 
France,    Kings    of,     v.    Charles, 

Francis,  Henry. 
Francis  the  First,  King  of  France, 

II.  82. 
Francis  the  Second,  King  of  France, 

217,  363,  386,  388,  444-448, 

451.     II.  47,  49,  50,  62,  73,  76, 

81,  83,  125,  127,   132,  134. 
Francis  de  Busso,  v.  Bisso. 
Frissall,  James,  II.  159. 
Fryth,  John,  14,  19. 
Fullerton,  Adam,  II.  289. 
Fullerton,     Hugh,    of   Dreghorn, 

II.  349,  499. 
Furrour,  Alexander,  42. 
Fyfe,  John,  55.     App.  527. 


G 


Galloway,  Bishops  of,    v.    Dury, 

Gordon. 
Garleis,  Laird  of,  v.  Stewart. 
Geddes,  Charles,  459. 
Gillone,  a  cordiner,  II.  158. 
Gilston,  Lady,  v.  Sempill. 
Glammis,   .John  eighth  Lord,  II. 

299,  533,  563. 


Glasgow,  Archbishops  of,   v.  Be- 

touns,  Blackader,  Dunbar. 
Glencairn,    William   fourth    Earl 

of,  86,  102,  111,  127,  281. 
Glencairn,  Alexander  Lord  Kil- 
maurs,  fifth  Earl  of,  72,  240, 
250,  252,  268,  274,  316,  335, 
340,  842,  345,  367,  379,  382, 
414,434,451,457.  IL  5,  38, 
53,  56,  58,  63,  70,  129,  130, 
167,  258,  286,  299,  305,  348, 
403,423,479,  481,  484,  496, 
499,  503,  520,  524,  556,  560, 
562,  565,  566. 

Glenurquhair,  Laird  of,  v.  Camp- 
bell. 

Goodman,  Christopher,  Minister, 
II.  87,  413,  484. 

Gordon,  Alexander,  Bishop  of  Gal- 
loway, II.  56,  63,  88, 129,  258, 
374,  532,  537,  539. 

Gordon,  Alexander,  of  Abyrzelde, 
IL  64,  357. 

Gordon,  George  Lord,  v.  Huntley, 
Earl  of. 

Gordon,  Lady  Jane,  Countess  of 
Bothwell  and  Sutherland,  II. 
553. 

Gordon,  John,  of  Barskeocht,  II. 
379. 

Gordon,  Sir  John,  of  Finlater, 
II.  64,  345,  353,  354,  359. 

Gordon,  Sir  John,  of  Lochinvar, 
II.  129,  163,  258,  401,  512, 
552. 

Gourlay,  Mr.  Norman,  53,  58,  60. 
App.  519. 

Governor,  The,  v.  Chattelherault, 
Duke  of. 

Graham,  Henry,  younger  of  Mor- 
ply,  II.  64. 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


627 


Graham,   John  Lord,   afterwards 

third  Earl  of  Montrose,  II.  563, 

'^65. 
Grand  Prior,  v.  Lorraine. 
Grange,  Laird  of,  v.  Kirkaldy. 
Grant,  John,  v.  Douglas. 
Gra)',  John,  233,  274. 
Gray,    Patrick    fifth    Lord,    111, 

113,  114,  IIG.     II.  563. 
Grayde  Wilton,  Lord,  209,  211. 

II.  57,  68,  70,  84,  138,  293. 
Gray  Friars,  the,  96. 
Graytly,  (  ,)  II.  63. 

Grindall,  Dr.  Edmond,  Bishop  of 

London,  II.  547. 
Guilliame,  Thomas,  Black  Friar, 

95,  105. 
Gualterus,  Emanuel,  244. 
Guthrie,  Alexander,  II.  158,  326, 

490,  526. 
Guthrie,  William,  233. 
Guyse,  Duke  of,  v.  Lorraine. 
Guysians,  the,  II.  70,  131,   136, 

174,  360. 


H 


Halton,  Laird  of,  v.  Lauder. 

Halyburton,  Alexander,  360,  462. 

Halyburton,  James,  Tutor  of  Pit- 
cur,  Provost  of  Dundee,  317, 
347,  351,  360.   II.  56,  63,  258. 

Halyrudhouse,  Abbot  of,  v.  Stuart, 
Lord  Robert. 

Hamilton,  Andrew,  of  Lethame, 
U.  258. 

Hamilton,  Catherine,  66.  App.  519. 

Hamilton,  Lord  Claude,  Com- 
mendator  of  Paisley. 

Hamilton,  Lord  David,  383. 11.81. 

Hamilton,  Sir  David,  of  Preston, 
276,  277,  281. 


Hamilton,  Gawin,  Abbot  of  Kil- 
winning, 325,  342,  351,  369, 
400,  458.  IL  53,  320,  325, 
326,  328,  515. 

Hamilton,  Gawin,  214. 

Hamilton,  James,  tJ.Arran,  Earl  of. 

Hamilton,  Sir  James,  of  Finnart,67. 

Hamilton,  James,  of  Kincavel,  66. 
App.  519. 

Hamilton,  James,  Laird  of  Sten- 
house,  Provost  of  Edinburgh, 
221,  222. 

Hamilton,  .James,  his  son,  222. 

Hamilton,  John,  Abbot  of  Paisley, 
afterwards  Archbishop  of  St. 
Andrews,  105,  107,  HO,  J 15, 
124,  181,  193,  203,  209,  224, 
237,  258,  276,  279,  280,  326, 
347,  350,  373.  App.  543.  II. 
88,  156,  300,  347,  351,  371, 
379,  390,  475,  536,  539,  540, 
548,  551,  554,  557. 

Hamilton,  John,  of  Milburn,  207. 

Hamilton,  Lord  John,  Commenda- 
tor  of  Aberbrothok,  IL  53,  552. 

Hamilton,  Matthew,  of  Milburn, 
325. 

Hamilton,  Mr.  Patrick,  Abbot  of 
Fearne,  13,  14, 19,  42,  52,  242. 
App.  500-515. 

Hamilton,  Robert,  517. 

Hamilton,  Mr.  Robert,  Mini.ster  of 
St.  Andrews,  300.  IL  11,32, 
291. 

Hamilton,  Sir  William,  of  San- 
quhar, 102. 

Hamilton,  William,  of  Cammis- 
keith,  1 02.     IL  379. 

Hamiltons,  the,  53,  106,  181. 
IL  470,  561-563,  566. 

Harlaw,  AVilliam,  minister,  245, 
256,  300. 


628 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


Harlaw,  William,  II.  159,  527. 
Hart,  John,  453,  454. 
Harie,  (Harry,)  King,  v.  Henry. 
Hay,  Mr.  George,  II.  291,  347, 

352,  423,  424,  434. 
Hay,  Mr.  John,  Prior  of  Moni- 

musk,  II.  482. 
Hay,  William    Lord,  of   Tester, 

II.  129,  258,  563. 
Handy rson,  Henry,  schoolmaster, 

57. 
Henry,    Lord    Darnley,    Earl    of 
Ross  and  Duke  of  Rothesay,  99, 
124.  n.  361,472,479,481,483, 
494,  496,  500,  .504,  519,   522, 
524,  533,  535,  .537,  549,  552. 
Henry  the  Eighth,  King  of  Eng- 
land,   41,    54,    76,    101,    109, 
110,  120,  123,  182,  209. 
Henry      the     Second,    King     of 
France,    206,    233,    294,  318, 
326,  356,  371,  383. 
Hepburn,     James,     v.    Bothwell, 

Earl  of. 
Hepburn,  John,  Bishop  of  Brechin, 

37,  155. 
Hepburn,  Patrick,   of  Wauchton, 

352, 
Hepburn,     Patrick,     Bishop     of 
Murray,  37,  41,  58,  292,  359, 
II.  300,  303. 
Heriot,  Adam,  Minister  of  Aber- 
deen, II,  87. 
Harries,  Lord,  v.  Maxwell. 
Hertford,  Earl  and  Duke  of  So- 
merset, Lord  Protector  of  Eng- 
land, 219. 
Holyrood    House,    Abbots   of,    v. 

Bothwell,  Stewart. 
Home,  Earl  of,  v.  Hume. 
Home,  Sir  John,  v.Coldingknowes. 


Hope,  Edward,  97.     II.  289. 

Howard,  William  Lord,  76. 

Hume,  (Home,)  Alexander  fifth 
Lord,  210.  II.  299,  557,  560, 
565,  566. 

Hume,  Alexander,  II.  64. 

Hume,  George  fourth  Lord,  79. 

Hume,  Elizabeth,  second  wife  of 
James  first  Earl  of  Arran,  107. 

Hume,  George,  ofSpott,II.63, 486. 

Hunter,  James,  118. 

Hunter,  Robert,  II,  349, 

Huntley,  George  fourth  Earl  of, 
93,  108,  211,  213,  217,  238, 
241,  358,  368,  379,  389,  391, 
395,  IL  6,  53,  55,  58,  61,  63, 
70,  156,  168,  286,  299,  305, 
321,  346-362,  380, 
Huntley,  George  Lord  Gordon, 
fifth  Earl  of,  II,  347,  360,  495, 
512,  514,  520,  521,  524,  526, 
532,  553,  557,  563, 
Huss,  John,  6. 


Innermeith,  John  Lord,  II.  299, 

563,  565. 
Innerquhartie,  Laird  of,  ?j,Ogilvie. 
Innes,  John,  of  Innes,  IL  64, 


James  the  First,  King  of  Scotland, 
6,  325. 

James  the  Second,  King  of  Scot- 
land, 7, 

James  the  Third,  King  of  Scot- 
land, 7- 

James  the  Fourth,  King  of  Scot- 
land, 7,  11,  13.     App.  516. 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


629 


James  the  Fifth,  King  of  Scotland, 
47,  53,  60,  67,  76,  78,  94,  217. 
App.  51.5.     TI.  72,  473.   • 

James  the  Sixth,  Prince  and  King 
of  Scotland,  II.  530,  536,  552, 
556,  558,  5G6. 

James,  Lord,  Prior  of  St.  An- 
drews, V.  Stewart. 

Jane  Seymour,  v.  Lady  Soraer. 

Johnson,  Andrew,  II.  63. 

Johnson,  James,  II.  63. 

Johnstone,  Mr.  William,  Advo- 
cate, 57.     App.  528. 

Justice -Clerk,  Lord,  v.  Bellenden. 


K 


Katharine,  Queen  of  England,  101. 

Keir,  Mr.  Thomas,  II.  354,  359. 

Keith,  Earl  Marischal,  v.  Maris- 
chall. 

Keith,  Agnes,  Countess  of  Mur- 
ray, II.  314. 

Kennedy,  Dame  Barbara,  wife  of 
Sir  John  Bellenden,  418. 

Kennedy,  Alexander,  64. 

Kennedy,  James,  burgess  of  Ayr, 
II.  349. 

Kennedy,  -John,  of  Kirkmichael, 
IL  350. 

Kennedy,  John,  of  Terngannoch, 
IL  350. 

Kennedy,  John,  II.  478. 

Kennedy,  Patrick,  of  Daljarroch, 
II.  350. 

Kennedy,  Mr.  Quintin,  Abbot  of 
Crossraguell,  II.  351,  371. 

Kennedy,  Thomas,  of  Bargenny, 
II.  258. 

Kennedy,  William,  of  Terngan- 
noch, II.  350. 


Ker,  Andrew,  of  Faldonsyde,  IL 
258. 

Ker,  Sir  Andrew,  of  Pharnihurst, 
460.     II.  164. 

Ker,  Mark,  Commendator  of  New- 
battle,  II.  64,  88. 

Ker,  (Car,)  Robert,  of  Carsland, 
II.  63,  349. 

Ker,  Sir  William,  of  Cessfurd, 
460.     II.  64,  560. 

Killor,  (Gillon,)  James,  II.  158. 

Kinloss,  (Walter  Hetton,)  Abbot 
of,  II.  53. 

Kinfauns,  Laird  of,  v.  Charteris. 

Kirk,  David,  222. 

Kirk,  Sir  William,  56. 

Kirkaldy,  David,  IL  11. 

Kirkaldy,  James,  of  Grange,  Trea- 
surer, 82,  93,  173,  206,  229. 
V.  Melville. 

Kirkaldy,  James,  II.  561. 

Kirkaldy,  Sir  William,  of  Grange, 
90,  106,  115,  174,  175,  182, 
205,  225,  228,  230,  461,  464. 
II.  8,  10,  14,  22,  25,  36,381, 
499,  560. 

Knox,  Marjory,  Wife  of  John,  v. 
Bowes. 

Knox,  John,  the  Reformer,  137, 
139,  185,  187,  189,  192,  195, 
199,  201,  228,  231,  245,  247- 
254,  267,  274,  291,  318,  324, 
338,  343,  347,  360,  362,  388, 
393,  434,  436,  443,  464. 
IL  8,  15,  18,  22,  26,  28,  32, 
34,  39,  43,  68,  87,  88,  128, 
137,  157,  159,  276-286,  291, 
297,  310,  314,  32.3,  326,  328, 
330,  334,  347,  351,  371,  373, 
377,  382,  384,  386,  390,  394, 
398,  401,  411,  412,  414,   420, 


630 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


424,  428,  434-461,  465,  497, 
514,  517,  520,  540,  542,  544, 
547,  563,  566. 

Knox,  AVilliam,  brother  of  the 
Reformer,  393. 

Kyle,  the  Gentlemen  of,  340.  II. 
347,  474. 

Kyle,  the  Lollards  of,  8. 

Kylwinning,  Abbot  of,  v.  Ha- 
milton. 

Kyllour,  Friar,  62. 

Kynfauns,  Laird  of,  v.  Charteris. 

Kynneir,  John,  of  Kynueir,   131. 


La  Broche,   Monsieur,    110,   396, 

398,  415,  422,  425. 
La  Chapelle,  222. 
Laike,  Sir  Francis,  II.  58. 
Lamb,  William,  118. 
Lambert,  Francis,  of  Avignon,  14. 
Lambert,  Paul,  II.  7. 
Lang,  or  Laing,  Friar  Walter,  74. 
Langton,  Laird  of,  v.  Cockburn. 
Lareit,    (Loretto,)   Hermit   of,  v. 

Thomas. 
Lauder,  Captain  Robert,  II.  395. 
Lauder,    ]Mr.    John,    Archdeacon 

of    Teviotdale,    64,   151,    154, 

164,  168,  238. 
Lauder,  William,  of  Halton,  350. 

IL  527. 
Lauder,  Gilbert,  II.  490. 
Lawers,  Laird  of,  II.  499. 
Lennox,      (Levenax,)      Matthew 

fourth  Earl  of,  110,  111,   12.3, 

124,  note.     II.  336,  361,  390, 

469,  479,  481,  483,  500,  507, 

514,  519,  52.3,  533,  537,  549, 

552,  566. 


Lennox,    (Levenax,)    John   third 

Earl  of,  53. 
Lennox,  v.  Countess  of  Douglas. 
Leirmonth,  Sir  James,  of  Darsye, 

Provost  of  St.  Andrews,   102, 

115,  174,  178,  349. 
Lesley,  Andrew,  Earl  of  Rothes, 

V.  Rothes. 
Lesley  of  Bowquhan,  II.  64. 
Lesley,  John,  brother  of  the  Earl 

of  Rothes,  172,  175,  177,  182. 
Lesley,  John,  of  Parkhill,  II.  381. 
Lesley,  Leslie,  Mr.  .John,  Parson  of 

Oyne,  Abbot  of  Lindores,  and 

Bishop  of  Ross,   236.     IL  141, 

180,     483,     524,    583.      App. 

600,  601. 
Lesley,  Leslie,  Norman,  Master  of 

Rothes,    112,    173,.    175,   206, 

225.     App.  541,  542. 
Lesley,  Robert,  228,  230. 
Lesley,  William,  228,  230.  II.  64. 
Lethington,    Auld    Laird    of,    v. 

Maitland,  Sir  Richard. 
Lethington,    Secretary,   ».    Mait- 
land, William. 
Levenax,  v.  Lennox. 
Levingstone,  Beatrix,  237. 
Levingstone,  Mary,  wife  of  John 

Semple  of  Bel  trees,  11.415,416. 
Levingstone,  William,  fifth  Lord 

of  Callender,  IL  490,  563. 
Linn,  -John,  Gray  Friar,  62. 
Lindores,  John,   Abbot    of,    392. 

II.  S8.  V.  Philp. 
Lindores,  John,  Comraendator  of, 

V.  Lesley,  John. 
Lindesay,  v.  Lyndesay. 
Livingstone,  v.  Levingstone. 
Lochinvar,  Laird  of,  v.  Gordon. 
Lockhart,  Alexander,  II.  69. 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


631 


Lockhavt,  jMr.  George,  37. 
Loekharfc,  George,  burgess  of  Ayr, 

II.  349. 
Locklmrt,SirJames,ofLee,II.348. 
Lockhart,  James,  II.  350. 
Lockhart,  -John,  of  Barr,  250,  340. 

II.  6i),  258,  336,  349. 
Lockhart,  Robert,  247,  300,  434, 

436. 
Locnorreis,  Leifnorris,   ■».    Craw- 

furd. 
Logau,  Robert,  of  Restalrig,  350, 

374,  427. 
Logie,  Mr.  Gawin,  Principal  of  St. 

Leonard's  College,  36.  App.  524. 
Lollards  of  Kyle,  8. 
Lome,  Archibald  Lord,  v.  Argyle. 
Lorraine,  Charles  de.  Cardinal  of 

Lorraine,   207,  220,   233,  242, 

244,  293,  412.     IL  133,  165, 

173,  180,  318,  390. 
Lorraine,  Claude  de,  Duke  D'Au- 

male,  II.  268,  286. 
Lorraine,  Francis  de,  Grand  Prior, 

IL  268. 
Lorraine,  Francis  de,  second  Duke 

of   Guyse,    242,    244.     II.    4, 

133,  137,  390. 
Lorraine,  Marie  de,  Queen  Dow- 
ager of  Scotland,  v.  JMary. 
Lorraine,  Rene  de.  Marquis  D'El- 

beuf,  II.  4,  268,  315,  321. 
Low,  John,  II.  478. 
Lundie,   or  Lundin,    Andrew,    of 

Balgonie,  II.  43,  129. 
Lundie,  or  Lundin,  Walter,  of  Lun- 
die, 337.     II.  422,  486,  503. 
Lusury,     (Lusgerie,)      IMonsieur, 

Jacques,  II.  419. 
Luther,    Martin,    15,    202,    243. 

II.  442. 


Luvcll,  (Lowell,)  George,  burgess 
of  Dundee,  4G3.      IL  164. 

Lyndesay,  Sir  David,  of  the  Mount, 
Lyon  King-at-Arms,  106,  187. 

Lyndesay,  JMr.  David,  minister  of 
Leith,  II.  87,  424,  511,  517. 

Lyndesay,  -John  fifth  Lord,  of  the 
Byres,  IL  129,  260. 

Lyndesey,  John,  42. 

Lyndesay,  Patrick,  Master  of, 
afterwards  Lord  Lyndesay,  235, 
337,  352.  IL  10,  38,  45,  63, 
129,  163,  260,  270,  317,  356, 
495,  517,  521,  556,   560-566. 

Lyndesay,  Patrick,  97. 

Lyndesay,  Sibilla,  97. 

J\I 

Machabeus,  Doctor,  (Macalpyne, 
Dr.  John,)  55.      App.  529. 

Mack- Alexander,  Thomas,  II.  350. 

Mackalzean,  Mr.  Thomas,  Pro- 
A-ost  of  Edinburgh,  II.  290. 

Mackbrair,  -John,  App.  529. 

Mackgill,  (Makgill,)  Mr.  James,  of 
Nether  Rankeillour,  Clerk-Re- 
gister, II.  124,  156,  291,  299, 
304,  310,  403,  423,  459,  526. 

Mackaw,  John,  97. 

Mackconnell,  .James,  II.  50. 

Macquhiddall,  -John,  II.  350. 

Makdowell,  -James,  55. 

Mair,  Major,  Mr.  .John,  37,  192. 

Maitland,  Sir  Richard,  of  Leth- 
ington,  97,  137.  IL  4,  379,403. 

IMaitland,  Robert,  Dean  of  Aber- 
deen, II.  442. 

Maitland,  William,  younger  of 
Lethington,  Secretary,  247, 
463,  473.     IL  38,  47,  52,  56, 


632 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


89,  130,  291,  296,  299,  310, 
315,  326,  331,  343,  353,  360, 
370,  390,  399,  401,  409,  411, 
413,  417,  423,  425,  427-459, 
473,  475,  481,  492,  497,  514, 
517,  526,  566. 

Malbery,  Sir  William,  78. 

Maltman,  Friar,  64. 

Malcolm,  Prior  of  Whitehorn,  v. 
Fleming. 

Mar,  Earl  of,  v.  Lord  Erskine, 
IT.  552,  55Q,  565,  566. 

Majnock,  (Marna,)  the  Queen's 
servant,  II.  387. 

Martigues,  (Marteckis,)  Count 
Stephen  de,  II.  4,  8,  12,  57. 

Martyr,  Peter,  243. 

Marischall,  William  Earl,  126, 
241,251.  11.70,129,260,286, 
291,  209,  305,  403,  420,  423. 

Marjoribanks,  Mr.  Thomas,  of 
Ratho,  Advocate,  70. 

Mary  of  Lorraine,  wife  of  James 
the  Fifth,  Queen  Dowager,  and 
Regent  of  Scotland,  61,  91,  95, 
103,  108,  143,  173,  180,  203, 
213,  222,  2.33,  241,  243,  252, 
255,  257,  261,  263,  265,  279, 
288,  290,  292,  298,  301,  304, 
307,  308,  312,  314,  317,  319, 
324,  326,  329,  337,  339,  341, 
345,  350,  353,  356,  358,  362, 
464.  II.  3,  6,  25,  36,  44,  57, 
58,  62,  64,  67,  68,  71,  126, 
160,  172.  App.  590-592. 
Mary  Queen  op  Scots,  91,  ^5, 
101,  108,  124,  217,  218,  232, 
304,  326,  363,  388,  426,  429, 
437,  444,  448,  451.  U.  25, 
47,  49,  50,  62,  73,  76,  81,  83, 
125,  132,   137,    142,  168,  170, 


174,  177,  180,  264,  267,  271, 
274,  277,  331,  335,  419,  465, 
469,  471,  476,  480,  488,  493, 
496,  501,  504,  514,  518,  522, 
524,  529,  530,  533,  534,  536, 
539,  548-566,  passim. 

Mary  Queen  of  England,  244, 422. 
n.  17,  279. 

Maxwell,  Herbert  Lord,  85,  86, 
111,  241. 

Maxwell,  Sir  John,  of  Terreglis, 
Master  of  Maxwell,  and  after- 
wards Lord  Herries,  3] 9,  451, 
455,  459.  IL  39,  4.5,  47,  52, 
63,  129,  258,  299,  321,  351, 
375,  399,  404,  423,  428,  434, 
500,  504,  508,  512,  524,  552. 

Mefiane,  v.  Methven. 

Melanchthon,  Philip,  15.   H.  442. 

Melville,  Melvin,  James,  of  Carn- 
bee,  176,  177,  234. 

Melville,  Janet,  wife  of  James 
Kirkcaldy  of  Grange,  90. 

Melville,  Sir  John,  of  Raith,  174, 
224. 

Melville,  John,  of  Raith,  224. 

Melville,  Robert,  II.  4,  361,  508, 
565. 

Melville,  Walter,  U.  373. 

Menteith,  John,  Earl  of,  II.  53, 
5Q,  58,  63,  129,  260,299,563. 

Menteith,  AVilliam  Earl  of,  346, 
357,  414. 

Menzies,  Thomas,  of  Pitfoddells, 
Provost  of  Aberdeen,  II.  164. 

Methven,  Paul,  Minister  of  Jed- 
burgh, 256,  300,  317.  H.  87, 
364,  531. 

Methven,  Henry,  second  Lord, 
H.  563. 

Mewtas,  Sir  Peter,  II.  294. 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


633 


MIddleton,  or  Cuninghani,  Laird 
of,  II.  349. 

MoncriefF  of  Moncrieff,  1 1 3. 

Monluc,  John  de,  Bishop  of  Val- 
ence, XL  72,  73. 

Monquhanny,  Laird  of,  v.  Balfour. 

Monteyth,  John,  v.  Menteith. 

Montgomery,  Hugh,  of  Hesilhead, 
IL  349. 

Montgomery,  AVilliam,  II.  348. 

Montmorenci,  Henry,  (Seigneur  de 
Damville,)  Duke  de,  Constable 
of  France,  II.  268,  287,  note. 

Montrose,  AVilliam  second  Earl 
of,  II.  299. 

Monypenny,  David,  of  Pitmilly, 
225,  463. 

Morton,  James  fourth  Earl  of,  235, 
274,  460.  n.  53,  63,  129,  130, 
260,  286,  291,  299,  305,  310, 
423,  434,  455,  479,  500,  515, 
517,  521,  523,  525,  556,  560, 
565,  566. 

Mowat,  Captain,  459,  463. 

Mowbray,  John,  H.  158,  527. 

Mowbray,  Sir  John,  of  Barn- 
bougie,  II.  552. 

Mowtray,  George,  of  Seafield,  H. 
43. 

Mure,  John,  in  Woll,  II.  349. 

Mure,  John,  of  Rowallane,  H. 
349. 

Mure,  Mungo,  IL  349. 

Mure,  of  Polkellie,  v.  Chalmer. 

Murray,  Bishop  of,  v.  Hepburn. 

Murray,  Dean  of,  v.  Campbell. 

Murray,  Sir  Andrew,  of  Balvaird, 
337,  338.     II.  503. 

Murray,  Annabella,  wife  of  John 
Lord  Erskine  and  Earl  of  Mar, 
IL  128,  380. 


Murray,  Captain  David,  463. 

Murray,  (Lord  James  Stewart,) 
Earl  of.  Prior  of  St.  Andrews 
and  Pittenweeni,  249,  265, 
268,  293,  294,  337,  342,  345, 
346,  350,  353,  358,  360,  368, 
375,  379,  384,  386,  413,  419, 
420,  451,  455,  456,  460,  464. 
II.  5,  7,  9,  38,  40,  43,  45, 
47,  52,  58,  68,  84,  88,  129, 
138,  142,  156,  164,  166,  168, 
258,  271,  277,  282,  286,  291, 
292,  299,  305,  310,  314,  321, 
326,  328,  331,  336,  346,  353, 
355,  357,  359,  368,  382,  391, 
399,  401,  418,  423,  461,  465, 
469,  471,  478,  480,  483,  490, 
492,  494,  496,  499,  500,  503, 
513,  523,  525,  527,  530,  535, 
548,  556,  566. 

Murray,  James,  II.  561. 

Murray,  Patrick,  of  Tibbermuir, 
345. 

Murray,  Sir  William,  of  Tullibar- 
din.  Comptroller,  346,  451, 
453.     II.  56,  508,  560,  561. 

Musculus,  Wolfgang,  II.  442. 

Myln,  Alexander,  Abbot  of  Cam- 
buskenueth,  37. 

Myll,  (Myln,)  Robert,  Dundee, 
125,  126. 

Myln,  Walter,  the  Martyr,  308, 
360.     App.  550-555. 


N 


Navarre,    Anthony   de  Bourbon, 

King  of,  IL  183. 
Navarre,  Brother  of  the  King  of, 

V.  Conde. 
Nemours,  Duke  de,  II.  361, 


634 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


Newbattle,    Commendator   of,   v. 

Ker,  Mark. 
Nisbet,  Alexander,  11.  350. 
Nisbet,  George,  II.  64. 
Niven,    Adam,   of   Monkredding, 

II.  350. 
Noailles,  Monsieur de,  II.  156, 167. 
Norfolk,    the     Auld     Dnke     of, 

(Thomas  third  Duke,)  78. 
Norfolk,  Thomas  fourth  Duke  of, 

II.  3.9,  42,  45,  46,  50,  52,  68. 
Norvell,  Robert,  II.  158,  380. 
Nydie,  Laird  of,  v.  Forsyth. 


O 


Ochiltrie,  Andrew  Lord  Stewart 
of,  340,  345,  367,  3G9,  382, 
414,434.  11.38,53,56,58,63, 
12.9,  2.58,  275,  299,  320,  349, 
386,  389,  496,  499,  503,  520. 

Ogilvy,  Alexander,  of  Boyne,  II. 
552. 

Ogilvy,  James  Lord,  of  Airly, 
II.  53,  63,  345,  346. 

Ogilvy,  James,  of  Cardell,  II.  345. 

Ogilvy,  John,  of  Inverquharity, 
341. 

Ogilvy,  Mrs.  Marion,  174. 

Oliphant,  Mr.  Andrew,  43,  44,  64. 

Oliphant,  Laurence  Lord,  II.  563. 

Oliver,  v.  Sinclair,  Oliver. 

Orkney,  Bishops  of,  v.  Bothwell, 
Reid. 

Orkney,  Duke  of,  v.  Bothwell. 

Orleans,  Sheriff  of,  IL  133. 

Ormiston,  Laird  of,  and  Lady,  v. 
Cockburn,  Sandilands. 

Ormiston,  Robert,  255. 

Osell,  (D'Osell,  D'Oysel,)  Sieur  de, 
203,  213,  222,  255,  324,  327, 


329,  336,  340,  341,  342,  34.5, 
352,  356,  374,  380,  395,  410, 
431.    IL  10,  13,  70,  170,  174. 


Paniter,   or   Panter,    Mr.  David, 

Bishop  of  Ross,  and  Secretary, 

105,  115,  262,  266. 
Paisley,    Abbots    of,    v.    Hamil- 
ton,  (Lord  Claude,)  Hamilton, 

(John.) 
Patrick,  v.  Hamilton,  Patrick. 
Percy,  Sir  Henry,  IL  22, 32, 35, 57. 
Petcur,  (Pitcur,)  Tutor  of,  v.  Haly- 

burton. 
Pettarro,  (Pittarow,)  Laird  of,   v. 

Wishart. 
Pettinweem,  Commendator  of,  v. 

Murray,  James  Earl  of. 
Philp,  John,  Abbot  of  Lindores, 

IL  App.  599,  600. 
Philip  the  Second,  King  of  Spain, 

n.  136,  533. 
Phorbes,  v.  Forbes. 
Piper,  Walter,  118. 
Pitmillie,    Laird    of,     v.    Mony- 

penny. 
Pont,  Mr.    Robert,  Minister,  II. 

375,  395. 
Pope,   the,    107,   147,   184,   189, 

191,   194,  206,  259,  412.    IL 

124,  284,  414,  533. 
Porterfield,  James,  II.  347- 
Preston,  SirSimon,  of  Craigmillar, 

Provost    of    Edinburgh,    121, 

236.     IL  498,  510,  522. 
Protector,    the,    of    England,    v. 

Hertford,  Earl  of. 
Puller,  Laurence,  118. 
Purves,  William,  222. 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


G35 


Queen  Dowager,  v.  Mary. 
Quhittingham,  (Whittingham,) 

Laird  of,  v.  Douglas. 
Qubytlaw,  v.  Whytelaw. 


R 


Raith,  Laird  of,  r.  Melville. 
Ramboullat,  (Rembouillet,)  Mon- 
sieur, IL  519. 
Ramsay,  Cuthbert,  H.  315. 
Randall,  v.  Randolph. 
Randan,  Mons.,  v.  Rochefaucault. 
Randolph,      Randall,      Thomas, 

English  Ambassador,  IL  314. 
Rankin,    Lawrence,     Laird    of 

Scheill,  128. 
Rankin,  Robert,  II.  350. 
Rannalt,  James,  118. 
Raylie,  Raullet,  Madame,  II.  393. 
Reid,  Adam,  of  Barskymming,  7, 

11,  12. 
Reid,    Adam,    of    Barskymming, 

II.  349. 
Reid,  George,  of  Chapleton,  II.  350. 
Reid,  George,  in  Dawdilling,  128. 
Reid,  James,  II.  349. 
Reid,  John,  II.  349. 
Reid,  Robert,  Bishop  of  Orkney, 

240,  264. 
Reids,  the,  IL  351. 
Restalrig,    Deans  of,    v.  Gibson, 

Sinclair. 
Restalrig,  Laird  of,  v.  Logan. 
Rhinegrave,  the  Count,   v.  Ryn- 

grave. 
Riccarton,  Laird  of,  v.  Drummond. 
Riccio,  David,  99,  23.5,  44G.     II. 

422,  483,  507,  513,  518,  521, 


524,  533,  535,  550,  551.    App. 

595-598. 
Riccio,  Joseph,  II.  551. 
Richardson,  Robert,  App.  530. 
Richardson,  Mr.  Robert,  Prior  of 

St.  Mary's  Isle,  372,  377,  403. 

IL  88,  508. 
Rig,  Mr.  Hugh,  Advocate,  70, 211. 
Rizio,  V.  Riccio. 
Rochefaucault,  Charles  de,   Sieur 

de  Randan,  IL  72. 
Roger,  John,  Black  Friar,  119. 
Ross,  Bishops  of,  V.  Lesley,  Ran- 
ter, Sinclair. 
Ross,  James  Lord,  II.  552. 
Ross,  John,  of  Craigie,  83. 
Rothes,  George  third  Earl  of,  114, 

116,  172,  173,  263. 
Rothes,   Andrew   fourth   Earl  of, 

350.     II.  38,  53,  5Q,  63,  129, 

258,  299,  423,  492,  495,  496, 

499,  503,  523,  525,  563. 
Rothesay,     Duke    of,    v.     Henry 

Lord  Darnley. 
Rough,  John,  96,  105,  184,  186, 

188,  193.     App.  537-540. 
Row,  Mr.  John,  Minister  of  Perth, 

IL  87,  291,  424,  484,  517,  538, 

563. 
Rubie,    Monsieur,  Keeper  of  the 

Great  Seal,  262,  292,  446. 
Russell,  Ilierouymus,  martyr,  63, 

G5,  66. 
Ruthven,   William  second    Lord, 

99,  111,  543. 
Ruthven,  Patrick  third  Lord,  113, 

235,  316,  336,  345,  350,  358, 

367,  369,  374,  378,  414,  418. 

IL  6,  45,  47,  52,  5S,  63,  373, 

403,  406,  483,  497,  521,  523, 

533,  560,  5Q5,  566. 


636 


INDEX  OP  PERSONS. 


Ruthven,  Lady,  (Janet  Stewart,) 
418. 

RuthvenjWilliani,  Master  of,  after- 
wards fourth  Lord,  IL  521. 

Ruthven,  William,  second  Lord, 
99,  111. 

Ryngrave,  Count  de,  IL  165, 166. 


Sadler,  Sir  Ralph,  101,  103,  104, 

109,  454. 
St.   Andrews,    Archbishops   of,  v. 

Beatons,  Hamilton. 
St.  Andrews,  Priors  of,  v.  Murray, 

James  Earl  of,  Hepburn. 
St.   Andrews,     Sub-Prior    of,     v. 

Wynrarae. 
St.  Andrews,   Provost  of,  v.  Leir- 

month. 
St.  Andrews,  Rector  of  the  Uni- 
versity of,  V.  Douglas. 
St.  John   of  Jerusalem,   Lord,  v. 

Sandilands. 
Sanderson,  a  flesher,  H.  155. 
Sandilands,  Alison,  wife  of  John 

Cockburn  of  Orniiston,  237. 
Sandilands,  Sir  James,  of  Calder, 

301. 
Sandilands,  Sir  James,  of  Torphi- 

cheu,  Lord  St.  John,  301,  375. 

n.  53,  125,  131,  258,  299. 
Sandilands,  John,  of  Calder,   1 39, 

142,  350,  375.     IL  527. 
Sands,  Andrew,  II.  12. 
Sanquhar,  Lord,  v.  Crichton. 
Sanquhar,  Parson  of,  v.  Crichton. 
Saul's-Seat,  Abbot  of,  II.  131. 
Schange,  Patrick,  II.  159. 
Scharpe,  Mr.  John,  Advocate,  II. 

337. 


Schaw,  Andrew,  of  Polkemmat,  7. 
Schaw,  John,  of  Haly,  II.  258. 
Schaw,  Robert,  IL  350. 
Scienues,  Sisters  of  the,  IL  224. 
Scott,  Friar  John,  96,  165,  168. 
Scott,  Thomas,  Justice-Clerk,  69. 
Scoti,  Thomas,  Sheriff-Depute  of 

Perth,  II.  526. 
Scott,   Thomas,   of   Hanying,   IL 

258,  503. 
Scott,  Thomas,  of  Abbotshall,  341. 
Scott,  Thomas  and  William,  sons 

of  Scott  of  Balwearie,  399. 
Scott,    Sir  Walter,   of  Buccleuch, 

53,  115,  217. 
Scrope,  Lord,  TI.  57. 
Seafield,  Laird  of,  v.  Mowtray. 
Sebastian,    (one    of    the    Queen's 

pages,)  II.  551. 
Secretary  Lethington,  v.  Maitland. 
Sempill,  Robert  third  Lord,   337, 

339.     IL  130,  552,  560. 
Sempill,    Lady   Grizzel,    wife    of 

James  Hamilton  of  Stenhouse, 

124,  280. 
Sempill,  .John,of  Beltrees,  II.  415. 
Sempill,  IMary,  v.  Levingstone. 
Serra  La  Burse,  Captain,  328. 
Sessnock,  (Cesnock,)  v.  Campbell. 
Seytoun,  Friar  Alexander,  45-52, 

54.  n.  64.    App.  531-533. 
Seytoun,  George  Lord,  Provost  of 

Edinburgh,  79,  97,  256,  362, 
389,  392,  431.  IL  35,  299, 
536,  563. 

Sibbald,  John,  233. 

Sinclair,  Mr.  Henry,  Dean  of 
Glasgow,  Bishop  of  Ross,  and 
Lord  President,  274.  II.  300, 
303,  379,  398,  403,  411,  425, 
528. 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


637 


Sinclair,  Mr.  John,  Dean  of  Res- 

talrig,  Bishop  of  Brechin,  and 

Lord  President,  99,   235,  265. 

II.  131,  141,385,483,495,528. 
Sinclair,  Oliver,  of  Pitcairnes,  67, 

83,  86,  88,  91. 
Sklater,  Andrew,  II.  490. 
Sklater,  Sir  Thomas,  a  priest,  459. 
Somer,    (Sommers,)    an    English 

agent,  II.  169. 
Somer,  David,  II.  289. 
Somer,    (Seymour,)    Lady   Jane 

101,  120. 
Somerset,  Earl  of,  Protector,  209 

212. 
Somerville,  Hugh  fifth  Lord,  88, 

111.     IL  53,  63,  299. 
Somerville^  James  sixth  Lord,  11 

563. 
Somerville,  James,  of  Cambusne 

than,  II.  552. 
Somerville,  John,  456. 
Spadone,  William,  132. 
Spens,  Mr.  John,  of  Condie,  King's 

Advocate,  419.     IL  304,  401, 

403,  405,  477,491,492,497. 
Spence,  Black  John,  II.  551. 
Spittal,  Mr.  -John,  Official  of  St. 

Andrews,  201. 
Spottiswood,   Mr.  John,    Superin- 

tendant  of  Lothian,  IL  87, 128, 

144,  424,  482,  511,  517,  528, 

538. 
Steill,  George,  Servitor  to  King 

James  the  Fifth,  68. 
Stenhouse,  Laird  of,  v.  Hamilton. 
Stevin,  Alexander,  II.  472. 
Stewart,   Captain  Alexander,  II. 

354. 
Stewart,  Sir  Alexander,  younger 

of  Garlies,  II.  129,  260. 


Stewart,  Andrew,  Master  of  Ochil- 
tree, H.  320. 
Stewart,  Elizabeth,  222. 
Stewart,  Lord  James,  Prior  of  St. 

Andrews,  v.  Murray,  Earl  of. 
Stewart,  James,  Master  of  Buchan, 

463. 
Stewart,  Captain  James,  of  Car- 

donald,  H.  329. 
Stewart,  James,  Commendator  of 

St.  Colme,  n.  53,  63,  88,  492. 
Stewart,  Lady  Janet,  Countess  of 

Argyle,  II.  375-378. 
Stewart,  Lord  John,  Prior  of  Col- 

dingham,  II.  88,  271,  293,  315, 

320,  389,  391,  392. 
Stewart,  John,  of  Leith,  57- 
Stewart,   Lord  Robert,   Abbot  of 

Holyrood-House,  458.     H.  53, 

88,  271,  293,  321,  391. 
Stewart,  Mr.  Walter,  (William,) 

222. 
Stewart,  William,  of  Halrig,  IL 

350. 
Strange  Mr.  Richard,  II.  326. 
Stratoun,  David,  of  Lauriston,  58, 

59.     App.  519. 
Strois,  (Strozzi,)  Pierde,  205,  216. 
Strozzi,  Leon,  Priorof  Capua,  205. 
Superintendants  and  other  Minis- 
ters, II.  87,  14.3-154,  545. 
Sutherland,    John   eleventh    Earl 

of,   II.  6,  299,  359,  381,  523, 

553. 
Sutherland,  Countess  of,  v.  Gordon. 
Sweden,    (Eric  XIV.)   King  of, 

IL  335. 
Swedish  Ambassador,  (Herr  Pier 

Groif,)  335. 
Syme,  -James,  246,  268. 
Symeson,  Duncan,  62. 


638 


INDEX  OF  PERSONS. 


Tarbet,  ».  Carvat,  Sir  James. 
Teiingland,  Laird  of,  v.  Campbell. 
Terraes,  Monsieur  de,  216. 
Throckmorton,    Sir  Nicholas,  II. 
«       480,  482. 
Thomas    (Doucbty),    Hermit    of 

Lareit,  72. 
Thornton,  Mr.  James,  Chanter  of 

Murray,  II.  180. 
Tod,  George,  221. 
Tullybardine,  Laird  of,  v.  Murray. 


Valance,  Bishop  of,  v.  Monluc. 

Vchiltree,  Lord  Stewart  of,  v. 
Ochiltree,  II.  663,  065. 

Vielmort,  (Villeraore,)  Bartholo- 
mew, Comptroller,  203. 

W 

Wallace,  Adam,  alias  Fean,  237, 

239,  241.     App.  543-550. 
Wallace,  Hugh,  of  Carnell,   340. 

n.  349,  499. 
Wallace,  Hugh,  of  Meanford,  II. 

350. 
Wallace,  John,  of   Craigie,  340. 

II.  349. 
Wallace,     Michael,    Provost     of 

Ayr,  II.  348. 
Warwick,  Earl  of,  209,  210. 
Watson,  James,  Innergowrie,  132. 
Watson,  Mr.  James,  II.  289. 
Wauchton,  Laird  of,  v.  Hepburn. 
Wedderburu,    James    and    John, 

139.    App.  530,  531. 
Wedderburn,  Laird  of,  v.  Hume. 


Werayss,  Sir  John,  of  Wemyss, 
II.  14,  43,  472. 

Whytelaw,  Alexander,  of  New 
Grange,  393, 461.  II. 31, 34,381. 

Whittingham,  Laird  of,  ?j.  Douglas. 

Whitehorn,  Prior  of,  v.  Fleming. 

Wighton,  Sir  John,  a  priest,   130. 

Wiclyffe,  John,  6. 

Willock,  John,  Superintendant  of 
the  West,  245,  247,  256,  301, 
34.3,  388,  442,  464.  IL  71, 
87,  128,  424,  482,  484. 

Wilson,  one.  Servitor  of  the 
Bishop  of  Dunkeld,  97- 

Wilson,  Mr.  Stephen,  II.  180. 

Winchester,  Bishop  of,  (Stephen 
Gardyner,)  54,  56. 

Winter,  AVilliam,  Admiral  of  the 
English  Fleet,  II.  13,  56. 

Wishart,  Mr.  George,  the  Martyr, 
125-172,  17G,  192,  236.  App. 
534-537. 

Wishart,  Sir  John,  of  Pittarrow, 
Comptroller,  274,  337,  347, 
366,  369,  378,  451.  IL  45, 
47,  52,  64,  304,  310,  353,  356, 
392,  403,  423,  499,  518. 

Wolfurd,  Sir  James,  219. 

AVood,  Mr.  Alexander,  II.  13. 

Wood,  Mr.  John,  Secretary  to  the 
Earl  of  Murray,  II.  295,  392. 

Wotton,  Dr.  Nicholas,  II.  72. 

Wynrarae,  Dean  John,  Superin- 
tendant of  Fyfe,  36,  150,  168, 
192,  193,  195.  IL  87,  88, 
128,  424,  445,  482,  517. 


Yair,  Henry,  II.  533. 
Yester,  Lord  Hay  of,  v.  Hay. 


INDEX  OF  PLACES. 


Aberbrothok,  (Arbroath,)  147, 

180.     II.  363. 
Aberdeen,  11.  87,  203,  346,  352, 

354,  357. 
Aberdeen,  University  of,  II.  213, 

219. 
Adenstoun,  II.  44. 
Amboyse,  (in  France,)  II.  133. 
Angus  andMearns,  136,  256,300, 

317.  11.87,189,203,354,474. 
Ankrome  (Ancruin)  Muir,  122. 
Annan,  II.  512. 
Annanderdaill,  11.  204. 
An  wick,  (Alnwick,)  II.  32. 
Argyle,  n.  87,  203,  391,  496. 
Ai-ran,  Isle  of,  II.  203. 
Athole,  II.  469,  492,  507. 
Auchendowne,  II.  3'54. 
Auchterarder,  341. 
Ayr,  town  of,   127.     II.  87,  347, 

343,  351,  397. 
Ayrshire,  places  in,  7. 


Bamff,  shire  of,  11.  203. 
Ban",  in  Ayrshire,  127,  250. 
Bartainzie,  (Britanny,)  208,  234. 
Basill,  (in  Switzerland,)  II.  534. 
Bathgate,  parish  of,  II.  548. 
Bawgawy,  (Balgavie,)  114. 


Berne,  (in  Switzei'land,)  11.  534. 
Berwick,  48,  79,  121,  231,  454. 
11.  34,  38,  39,  43-46,  68,  84, 
138,  280,  520,  535. 
Birst,  (Brest,)  234. 
Blackness  Castle,  116,  120,  426. 
Bononia,  (Bologna,)  University  of, 

n.  456-458. 
Borders  of  Scotland  and  England, 
(East  and  West,)  84, 121,  257. 
n.  292,  553,  557. 
Borthwick  Castle,  II.  557,  559. 
Boys,  (Bois,)  de  Vincent,  II.  81. 
Brechin,  II.  203. 
Brochty    Craig,    208,    214-216, 

423. 
Brounstane,  (Brunstane,)  134. 
Bruutisland,  II.  5,  6. 
Buchan,  II.  353. 
Bullon,  (Bulloigne,)  233. 
Burrow  Muir,  (near  Edinburgh,) 

11.  336. 
Bute,  Isle  of,  II.  203. 


Cadder  Water,  U.  500. 
Caithness,  H.  203. 
Calder  House,  249. 
Calice,  (Calais,)  220.     II.  170. 
Callender,  H.  490,  501. 
Cambuskenneth,   Abbey  of,    37, 
391. 


640 


INDEX  OF  PLACES. 


Canongate,  (Edinburgh,)  57,  222, 
404,  457. 

Carberry,  211.     U.  560. 

Carlaverock  Castle,  122. 

CarleiU,  (Carlisle,)  85.  II.  39, 
40,  512. 

Carnell,  (in  Ayrshire,)  250. 

Carney  Castle,  (in  Fife,)  90. 

Carrick,  district  of  Ayrshire,  II. 
204,  347,  435. 

Carron  Water,  II.  501. 

Castle  Campbell,  253.    H.  502. 

Castle  Huntley,  114. 

Castle  Sempill,  II.  130. 

Cawpmanhowin(Copenhagen),55. 

Cliddisdaill,  II.  204. 

Conquet  (Le),  in  Britanny,  231. 

Copenhagen,  v.  Cawpmanhowin. 

Corrichie,  (Aberdeenshire,)  II. 
356,  526. 

Corsraguell  Abbey,  II.  168. 

Cowper,  (Cupar  in  Fife,)  350- 
355,  472.     11.  8,  22,  384. 

Cragingatt,  374. 

Craigie,  335. 

Craigmillar  Castle,  121.    II.  535. 

Crawfurd,  II.  512. 

Crawmond,  220. 

Creichton  Castle,  455,  456. 

Cidross,  II.  5. 

Cunningham,  district  of  Ayr- 
shire, 335.     n.  204,  347. 

Cupar-Fife,  v.  Cowper. 


D 


Dalkeith,  97,  213.     II.  560. 
Deape,  (Dieppe,)  232,  253,  264, 

269,  272.     II.  4,  15. 
Dee,  River,  II.  203. 
Dieppe,  v.  Deape. 


Do  vane  "Water,  II.  14. 
Dover,  220. 
Draffen  Castle,  II.  507. 
Dron,  Path  of,  II.  490. 
Drumfries,   (Dumfries,)  II.    204, 

374,  377,  502,  508,  511,  512. 
Drundallan,  142. 
Ducheland,  (Germany,)  55. 
Dunbar,  371,  404.  II.  32,  74,  75, 

360,  495,  523-525,  553-558. 
Dunbar  Castle,  124,  426,  528. 
Dunbar,  Kirk  of,  II.  144. 
Dundee,   36,  46,    114,   125-132, 

155,  215,  228,  256,  300,  301, 

317,  318,  336,  351,  358,  405, 

457.    11.11,12,287,359,474, 

503,  504,  531,  532. 
Dumbarton,  111,  207,  217,  387. 

II.  330. 
Dun,'  House  of,   (in  Forfarshire,) 

249,  250. 
Dunfermling,  38.     II.  5,  87. 
Dunkeld,  II.  487. 
Dysert,  404.     II.  9,  12,  13. 


E 


Edinburgh,  (v.  Canongate,  Holy- 
rood,  Restalrig,)  61,  80,  90,  97, 
104,  119-122,  132,  143,  209, 
213,  221,  238-241,  250-254, 
256-261,  294,  301,  364,  374- 
381,  389,  391,  426,  437, 
441,  445,  465.  II.  3,  32,  57, 
87,  120,  123,  124,  129,  138, 
156-161,  203,  272,  280,  287, 
292-294,  315,  320-327,  330, 
337,  359,  363,  379-384,  394- 
396,  421-460,  j?rtss/'»,  469-479, 
483-487,  490-504,  509-523, 
549,  552,  554,  557-563,  566. 


INDEX  OF  PLACES. 


G41 


Edinburgh  Castle,  124,  142-144, 
464.  II.  3,  bS,  67,  287,  32U, 
346,  360,  422,  490,  499,  510, 
527-530,  558,  562. 

Edinburgh,  Castle  Hill,  63,  416. 

Edinburgh,  Greenside,  Rood  of, 
60  ;  St.  Leonard's  Craigs,  472. 
II.  384,  487,  490. 

Edinburgh,  Kirk  of,  (St.  Giles' 
Kirk,)  388,  389,  392.  11.  84, 
144,  151,  276,  314,  364,  420, 
456,  497,  524,  531. 

Edinburgh,  Kirk  of  Field,  131. 
II.  138,  325,  549. 

Edinburgh,  LeithWynd, 457, 458. 

Edinburgh,  Market  Cross,  93. 
U.  273,  476,  495,  504,  526, 
558,  566. 

Edinburgh,  NetherbowPort,  458; 
West  Port,  II.  499. 

Edinburgh,  Tolbooth  or  Parlia- 
ment House,  n.  524,  526. 

Ednam,  (Annan,)  H.  512. 

Elphingstone,  140,  142. 

Embden,  245,  2i)6. 

Enresk,  (Inveresk,)  135.  H.  58, 
209,  221. 

Ergyle,  v.  Argyle. 

Esk,  AYater  of,  210. 

Ettrick  Forest,  U.  204. 


Failfurd,  (in  Ayrshire,)  II.  168. 

Fala,  79. 

Falkland  Palace,  90,   173,  348- 

351.     11.  322,  328. 
Farabank,  II.  356. 
Fawsyde.  210-212.     II.  503. 
Feme,  Abbey  of,  15. 
Floddon  Field.  13. 

VOL.   H. 


Forth,   Firth  of,   203,  220.     II. 

41,  44,  504. 
Forth,  Water,  340,  362.  II.  203. 
Fotheringham,  H.  203. 
Franckfort,  232,  253. 
Fyfe,  Shire  of,  300,  375.    II.  43, 

87,203,354,469,471-473,502. 
Fynlater,  H.  354. 


G 


Galloway,  H.  204,  347,  351. 
Galston,  (in  Ayrshire,)  127. 
Garlabank,  (in  Fife,)  354. 
Gathgirth,  (in  Ayrshire,)  250. 
Geneva,  231,  232,  253,  267,  274. 

II.  16,  534. 
Gladsmuir,  H.  559. 
Glasgow,  5,  7,  19,  111,  382-384. 

II.  38,    39,   41,   56,  57,  204, 

378,  498,  500,  502,  537,  549. 
Glasgow,  University  of,  U.  213, 

219. 
Glennis  House,  (in  Fife,)  II.  10. 
Govan  Muir,  394. 
Grange  House,  (in Fife,)  II.  8,  10. 
Granton  Craigs,  120. 
Gwdy,  (Goodie,)  AVater,  340. 


H 


Haddington,    84,    90,    136-139, 

215-217,  221,  223,  236.     II. 

528. 
Hailes  Castle,  143. 
Haldane  Rig,  78. 
Hallyards,  (Hawyardis,)  90.     II. 

10,  328. 
Halyrudhouse,  v.  Holyrood. 
Hamilton,  (Castle,)  384,413-417, 

437.     II.  498,  500,  502,  507. 
2  s 


642 


INDEX  OF  PLACES. 


Hawick,  11.  336. 

Hermitage,  II.  534,  535. 

Hierusalem,  (Jerusalem,)  13. 

Holland,  coast  of,  II.  4. 

Holy  Island,  II.  32. 

Holyrood,  Abbey  and  Chapel  of, 
57,  60,  103,  391,  461.  11. 
270,  271,  393,  396,  471,  472, 
495,  514,  519,524,  527,  549, 
550,  562. 

Holyrood,  Palace  of,  81,  82, 108, 
364,  377.  11.  269,  293,  321, 
359,  386,  393,  395,  403-412, 
415,  419,  469,  509,  512,  520- 
524,  550. 

Home  Castle,  210,  224,  255. 


Inner  Gowrye,  132. 

Innerness,  11.353,  354,  391,  392. 

Insche,  (Inchkeith,)  426.     II.  72, 

74. 
Inveresk,  v.  Enresk. 


Jedwart,  (Jedburgh,)  78,  445.  II. 
87,  204,  292,  364-366,  531- 
535. 


K 


Kelso,  78,  293.     II.  292. 
Kersgrange,  39. 
Kilwinning  Abbey,  168. 
Kinghorn,  404.     11.6,7,10,12, 

369. 
Kinneill,  II.  5,  320,  327. 
Kinyeancleuch.     (in     Ayrshire,) 

250. 


Kinross,  II.  373. 

Kirkaldy,  404.     II.  12. 

Kirkwall,  II.  203. 

Kyle,    district  of  Ayrshire,    105, 

129,  250,  335.     II.  204,  347, 

474,  526. 
Kyntyre,  II.  203. 


Langnuddry,  134,  136. 

Lanrick,  (Lanai'k,)  II.  501. 

Lauder  Bi'ig,  80. 

Lauderdale,  II.  203. 

Leith,  111,  120,  122,   134,  209, 

214,  221,  286,  307,  374-377, 

389,  404-406,  413-429,  437, 

451,    457-461.      II.  14,    45, 

53,  57-60,  64-69,  72-75,  87, 

160,  269,  510,  559. 
Leith,  Kirk  of,  392.     II.  144. 
Leith,  Water  of,  375.     II.  65. 
Lethington,    (in    East   Lothian,) 

137. 
Leven  Water,  II.  13. 
Levenax,  (Lennox,)  II.  204,  507. 
Lewis,  Isle  of,  II.  203. 
Liddisdale,    II.    204,    292,    479, 

524. 
Lipsia,  (Leipzig,)  55. 
Lochlevin    Castle,    II.    371-373, 

562,  565,  566. 
Lochquhaber,  II.  203. 
London,  213,  231,  473.     II.  280, 

382,  513. 
London,  Tower  of,  42.     II.  336. 
Longhame,  (Langholm,)  122. 
Lore,  Water  of,  (the  Loir,)  208. 
Lome,  II.  203. 
Lothian,  Shire  of,  137,  143,  215, 

375.     II.  87,  144,  189. 


INDEX  OF  PLACES. 


643 


Lowmabeii,     (Lochiiuiben,)     85, 

89,  122.     II.  508,  512. 
Lundie,  (in  Fife,)  213,  231,  473. 

II.  503. 
Lynlythqw,  (Linlithgow,)  53,  69, 

91,  104,    108,  381,  453.     II. 

287,  303,  497,  498. 

M 

Magdeburg,  11.  453. 
Mar,  Brae  of,  II.  203. 
Maucbline,   (in    Ayrshire,)    127, 

128. 
Maxwell-heuch,  255. 
Maybole,  (in  Ayrshire,)  II.  352. 
Melrose,  53,  293.     II.  528. 
Menteith,  II.  204, 
Mernys,  (Mearns,)  189,  256.     II. 

203,  354,  474. 
Merse,   (in  Teviotdale,)  II.  187, 

203. 
Month,  the  Mount,  II.  301-307. 
Montrose,  125,  132,  317. 
Mont  St.  Michael,  (in  Normandy,) 

226,  229,  230. 
Morhame,  455. 
Murray,  II.  203,  469. 
Musselburgh,    v.    Inveresk,    210, 

404.     II.  559. 


N 


Nantes,  (in  France,)  208,  227. 
Newbattle  Abbey,  231.     II.  528. 
Newcastle,  231.     II.  280,  513. 
Niddisdale,    Nithsdale,    II.    204, 

351. 
North  Berwick,  404. 
North  (the),  Northland,  and  North 

of  Scotland,  346-359,  391.  419. 


O 


Orkney  Islands,  II.  203. 
Orleanse,  (Orleans,)  II.  133,  134, 

318. 
Ormiston,  (in  East  Lothian,)  134, 

138-142,  393. 
Ormiston  Wood,  142. 


Pasley,  II.  347,  498. 
Paris,  IL  165,  169. 
Peebles,  II.  512. 
Perth,  V,  St.  Johnstoun. 
Pettycur,  (in  Fife,)  II.  7. 
Pinkycleuch,  260. 
PittenAveem,  (in  Fife,)  II.  32. 
Preston,  209,  368,  369,  393. 
Prestonpanns,  209,  404. 


R 


Renfrew,  II.  204. 

Restalrig,  (near  Edinburgh,)  266, 

461.     n.  58,  65. 
Rheims,  II.  165. 
Rhone,    Water  of,    (the    Rhine,) 

159. 
Ross,  Chanonry  of,  II.  203. 
Rowane,  (Rouen,)  226,  230,  293. 
Rothiemay,    (in   Aberdeenshire,) 

n.  353. 


Sanctandi'ois,  (St.  Andrews,)  6,15, 
17,  36-39,  43,  46,  53,  97,  184- 
202,  228,  308,  351-355,  444. 
II.  13,  22,  43,  87,  203,  287, 
322,  329,  369,  494,  503-506. 


644 


INDEX  UF  PLACES. 


St.  Andrews,  Abbey  or  Cathedi-al 

Church,  150. 
St.  Andrews,  Castle  or  Episcopal 

Palace,   110,    119,   122,   144- 

149,  168,  169,  172-179,  181- 

184,  203-208,  430. 
St.  Andrews,  Diocese  of,  II.  548. 
St,  Andrews,  University  of,  17, 

36.     n.  213,  219. 
St.  Colme's  Inch,  220. 
St.  Dothes,  (in  Ross.)  16. 
St.  Johnstoun,  or  Perth,  112-118, 

316-328,  336,   337,    343-345, 

350,  355-362,  405,  441,  472. 

II.  87,  203,  287, 359,  384,481- 

487. 
Scone,  Abbey  of,  359-362. 
Seatoun,  97.    II.  492,  523,  550, 

559. 
Semple,  Castle  of,  II.  130. 
Sherisburg,       (Cherbourg      in 

France,)  225. 
Shetland  or  Zetland,  II.  203. 
Skein,  Loch  of,  II.  354. 
Sky,  Isle  of,  II.  203. 
Smalholme,  79,  83,  87,  102. 
Solane  Moss,  (Solway,)  83,  87. 
South  Ylis,  II.  203. 
Spey,  Eiver,  II.  203. 
Stamford,  (in  England,)   II.  32, 

34. 
Steadis,  (the  States,)   65. 
Stirling,  v.  Striveling. 
Stitchell,  (in  Roxburghshire,)  79. 
Strabogye,;II.  346,    353,    354, 

359. 
Straytherne,  II.  189,  345. 
Straythnaver,  II.  203. 
Straythvla.  II.  353. 


Striveling,  (or  Stirling,)  108, 109, 
213,  268,  317,  340,  362,  381, 
383,  413,  416,  417,  465,  467, 
473.  II.  5,  6,  14,  40,  156, 
189,  203,  287,  346,  353,  359, 
391,  393,  398,  479-481,  498, 
502,  507,  527,  533,  535-537, 
549,  552-557,  566. 

Stirling,  (Chapel  Royal,)  44,  328. 

Stirling,  Kirk  of,  II.  144. 

Sutherland,  II.  203. 


T 


Tay,  River,  126. 
Teith,  Water  of,  340. 
Teviotdale,  II.  189,  204. 
Tranent,  136,  404. 
Tranent  Kirk,  II.  144. 
Tullibody,  (in  Clackmannanshire,) 

II.  14. 
Tweddale,  II.  204,  512. 
Tweed,  River,  79,  80,  255. 

W 

Wark  Castle,  123,  255. 
Weddale,  II.  203. 
Wemyss  Castle,  II.  472. 
West  of  Scotland,  II.  391,  474. 
Whytsyde,  II.  14. 
Whyttenberg,  (AVittemburg,)  I.k 
Wyntoun,  237. 

Y 

Yarmouth,  105. 
Ylis,  the,  82.     II.  87. 
York,  II.  335. 


INBURGH  :     PRINTED  BY  T.  CONSTABLE,   PRINTER  TO  11  F.K  MAJESTY. 


11 01 2  01130  7420 


DATE    DUE 


^,^^,. 

/y 

"^^^gtH^What--^ 

GAYLORD 

PRINTED  IN  USA 

