FROM   THE  LIBRARY   OF 
REV.   LOUIS    FITZGERALD    BENSON.   D.  D. 

BEQUEATHED    BY   HIM   TO 

THE   LIBRARY  OF 

PRINCETON  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY 


DMdon        tSCC 
Section  ^5  7S 


3.   The  Particular  Baptists. 

Among  the  Particular  (or  Calvinistic)  Baptists  there 
was,  to  say  the  least,  nothing  like  unanimity  in  agreeing 
with  their  Arminian  brethren  concerning  Congregational 
Song. 

The  very  full  records  of  the  Broachnead  Church  of  Bris- 
tol left  by  Edward  Terrill  are  silent  on  this  point  from 
1640  to  1670.  But  from  1671  to  1685  they  show  that 
congregational  singing  was  statedly  practised,  under  all 
the  menaces  of  persecution.40  There  was,  however,  a  sec- 
ond Baptist  congregation  in  Bristol:  and.  when  in  1675, 
a  joint  meeting  was  proposed,  some  of  its  members  "were 
ready  to  sing  Psalms  with  others  beside  the  church",  but 
a  minority  "Scrupled  to  sing  in  metre  as  [the  Psalms] 
were  translated",  and  asked  permission  to  keep  their  hats 
on  or  to  retire  while  this  was  doing.47  From  this  and  other 
facts  we  may  infer  that  there  were  considerable  differences 
of  sentiment  and  practice  among  the  Particular  Baptists 
of  the  time. 

46  The   Records    of    the    Church    of    Christ    meeting    in    Broadmead. 
Bristol,  1640- 1687,  London.   1847.  pp.   159.  222.  22S,  230.  27,2.  233.  23''. 

2SJ,  238.  248,  253.  256,  291.  305.  312.  339.  421.  443.  465. 

47  Broadmead  Records,  p.  242. 

<sThos.    Crosby.   History    of   the   English    Baptists.   London.    TS38-JO, 
v*>l.  iv.  p.  299. 
"  Crosby,  op.  fit.,  vol.  iv.  j>;  270. 


THE 


RECORDS 


CHURCH   OF   CHRIST, 


ETC. 


tf)€  tlS  £cc7es  *a  p  ri  n  cipio  i n 


iChran^Jo       -frfi      Jl^^W      '/I^V       VSIZP      ^2      t3  ^ 

pari  from   oh  "...         *      <c      •   r    :  •■  "  •••:»«  I     ..  T 

g~  r-i$"ja  Wjtf  *<?$)   17*  ntf  ???  'I'3-1 


6  Ao\<£-  o  o4><>,  CLAvfleia  %&..'( Kip  J7fn.AN  y.  j 

Ka  n^o^v  t  h/mo\o/cLv  7s  i  mid"®*  a  r\i  vjf  (tkjos  )8b  zrayyjxaui  &) 


■flint  I 


»  id^,i)0)flB,v^^L'7rtt<Ta.c,  7aq  »&£&4lijos^crturreAtias  ^amv^Xfulw 


Q)iaif  iditur  aa 


/ 


rjV  Ut/IUtlMLC/CJXJL  UJozZ/, 

yt'it  xdj;ct  up,  fi/mtfiv 

ct  TTwr  in  Maui  seaunfusffL*. 

ni^  pf- 


at  sundry  tt^?2^j  ama  oiis&rj  ?na<z*4U03,Sp4ik>- 


n/Aoy/-. 


f^  &£>'%£%,%& 


T7.0   to/  I   ////'/////'  ' 


>i/v-&-z^nQ>  etccorbtsna  fo 


■JJt-if-a  rz4~ 


iry  ttj  J#?yO-cin4  ' * kjC^s v /are,  ,  */  las  <s  ' ■   /  *..  u    ,,  ,,"  „,,,•*      ,< 


THE 


RECORDS 


CHURCH    OF    CHRIST, 


MEETING    IN 


BROADMEAD,   BRISTOL. 

1640-1687. 


EDITED    FOR 


Wi)t  £att&rto  ^nollpsf  £>arietp, 

WITH    AN    HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION, 
EDWARD    BEAN    UNDERHILL. 


LONDON: 

PRINTED    FOR    THE   SOCIETY,    BY 

J.    HADDON,    CASTLE    STREET,    FINSBURY. 

M.DCCC.XLVII. 


CONTENTS. 


I.     An  Historical  Introduction,  Part  II. —  pagb 

1.  Elizabeth ix. 

2.  The  Puritans xxii. 

3.  The  Brownists xxxiv. 

4.  The  Baptists xliv. 

5.  The  Independents  lxxvii. 

II.    The  Records,  &c 1 

III.     Addenda 503 

IV.     Index  523 


AN 


HISTORICAL  INTRODUCTION, 


PART   II.— SECTION   I. 
ELIZABETH. 

The  reign  of  Elizabeth  was  an  era  of  conflict.  Light 
struggled  with  darkness,  and  by  the  hands  of  its  professed 
friends  was  shut  up  in  the  dark  lanthorn  of  a  state-establish- 
ment. The  world  became  enthroned  in  the  church,  and 
political  considerations  were  of  more  importance  than  the 
laws  of  the  King  of  kings.  "  Every  moral  principle  was  set 
at  nought,  and  every  crooked  path  of  state-expediency  was 
trodden."  '  The  law  of  the  Lord,  that  perfect  law,  might  be 
obeyed  only  so  far  as  it  was  transcribed  into  the  statute-book 
of  the  realm. 

Immediately  upon  her  accession  (Nov.  17th,  1558),  the 
queen  gave  an  earnest  of  the  course  she  intended  to  pursue. 
Cecil's  advice  for  reformation  was  accepted.  Protestants 
were  introduced  into  the  council,  and  catholics  excluded 
from  it.  On  Sunday,  the  20th,  she  listened  to  the  gospel 
from  the  lips  of  Dr.  Bill ;  but  imprisoned  Christopherson,  "the 

1  Huber's  English  Universities,  i.  294. 


X  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

brawling  bishop  of  Chichester,"  who,  on  the  following  Sunday, 
with  great  vehemence  and  freedom,  refuted  the  reformer's 
doctrine  as  the  "  invention  of  new  men  and  heretics  !" 2  She 
at  once  assumed  the  controverted  authority  of  the  state  in 
religious  matters,  by  issuing  a  proclamation  forbidding  all 
preaching  and  exposition  of  holy  scripture,  till  the  decision  of 
parliament  should  be  known.  The  people  might,  however, 
read — only  read — the  epistles,  the  gospels,  and  the  command- 
ments, in  English ;  and  were  besides  allowed  to  pray  in  the 
language  of  the  Lord's  prayer,  the  litany,  and  the  creed. 
For  a  while,  masses,  and  all  the  abominations  of  popery,  were 
sanctioned,  the  rubric  of  the  missals  and  breviaries  followed, 
and  the  zeal  of  the  reformers  repressed.  But  their  private 
meetings  were  connived  at,  while  the  parish  churches  were 
closed  against  them.3 

With  great  gladness  the  exiles  returned  from  their  places 
of  sojourn  abroad,  full  of  hope  and  expectation.  "  The  most 
merciful  God,"  says  one  of  them,  "  has  visited  our  affliction, 
and  wrought  out  the  redemption  of  his  people."4  Halcyon 
days  were  come  ;  the  winter  was  past,  the  rain  teas  over  and 
gone.  Martyr-blood  had  fertilized  the  soil,  and  now  flowers 
bright  with  the  beauty  of  holiness  would  appear.  A  new 
star  had  arisen  to  lead  the  Lord's  people,  and  to  shed  beams 
of  grace  upon  the  church  of  the  living  God.5  Visions  of 
happiness  too  early  destroyed  by  the  stern  realities  of  the 
strife  awaiting  the  wearied  pilgrims  !  Within  two  months 
of  the  queen's  accession,  Jewel  wrote  the  ominous  words,  "  I 

2  Macintosh,  Hist,  of  Eng.  Eliz.  ch.  5  "  God,  whose  property  is  to  show 
xvi.  Zurich  Letters,  i.  4,  6.  Parker  his  mercies,  then  greatest  when  they  are 
Society.  nearest    to    be    utterly    despaired    of, 

3  Documentary  Annals,  i.  176.  Col-  caused  in  the  depth  of  discomfort  and 
lier,  vi.  "200.     Zurich  Lett.  ii.  29.  darkness  a  most  glorious  star  to  arise, 

4  Sir  Ant.  Cook  to  Bullinger.  Zu-  and  on  her  head  settled  the  crown." — 
rich  Lett.  ii.  1.  Hooker,  book  iv.  sect.  14.     Han  bury  *s 

edit.  vol.  i.  p.  327. 


ELIZABETH.  XI 

only  wish  that  our  party  may  not  act  with  too  much  worldly 
prudence  and  policy  in  the  cause  of  God."  6 

"Worldly  prudence  and  policy,"  did,  however,  from  this 
time,  control  the  ecclesiastical  movements  of  the  hierarchy 
and  the  state;  religion  was  made  to  worship  at  their  shrine- 
The  queen  became  wonderfully  afraid  of  innovations.  u  She 
is,  however,  prudently,  and  firmly,  and  piously,  following  up 
her  purpose,  though  somewhat  more  slowly  than  we  could 
wish." 7  The  purer-minded  reformers  were  shocked  to  see 
the  crucifix  still  erect  in  the  queen's  chapel,  and  much  more, 
when,  habited  in  the  golden  vestments  of  the  papacy,  with 
candles  lighted  before  the  image,  three  of  the  new  bishops 
ministered  at  the  table  of  the  Lord,  as  priest,  deacon,  and 
subdeacon,  "  without  any  sermon."  "  What  hope,"  exclaims 
the  pious  Sampson,  "is  there  of  any  good,  when  our  party 
are  disposed  to  look  for  religion  in  these  dumb  remnants  of 
idolatry,  and  not  from  the  preaching  of  the  lively  word  of 
God." 8  Many  longed  impatiently  for  further  and  more 
active  progress  in  the  establishment  of  the  gospel.  They 
chided  the  wariness,  the  deliberation,  the  prudence  of  the 
royal  counsels,  "  as  if,"  says  Jewel,  "  God  himself  could 
scarce  retain  his  authority  without  our  ordinances  and  pre- 
cautions; so  that  it  is  idly  and  scurrilously  said,  that  as 
heretofore  Christ  was  cast  out  by  his  enemies,  so  he  is  now 
kept  out  by  his  friends."  9  The  people  were  disgusted  with 
the  insolence  and  cruelty  of  the  papists ;  many  called  them 
butchers  to  their  face.  They  thirsted  for  the  gospel 
exceedingly ;  the  consuming  fire  of  the  martyr-pile  had 
well  nigh  burnt  up  every  green  herb,  and  by  its  scorch- 
ing  power   rendered   arid   many  a   spot   once  fertilized  by 

6  Jewel  to   Martyr,  Zurich  Lett.  i.  8  Sampson  to  Martyr.     Zurich  Lett. 
8,  10.  i.  63. 

7  Jewel  to  Martyr,   Mar.  20,  1539.  y  Jewel   to  Martyr,  Apr.   14,   1559. 
Zurich  Lett.  i.  11.  Zurich  Lett   i.  17. 

h  2 


Xll  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

evangelic  truth ;  but  the  waters  of  life  were  not  yet  to 
irrigate  the  parched  ground.  The  sanction  of  law  was 
necessary  to  let  loose  the  pent-up  floods  of  the  ever- 
lasting springs.1 

But  will  the  law,  or  the  lawgivers,  grant  liberty  to  the 
free  utterance  of  God's  truth?  Are  the  sighings  of  the 
people  to  be  heard?  Will  the  breeze  now  rustling  in  the 
forest  tops  bring  the  refreshing  rain,  the  fertilizing  shower  of 
heavenly  doctrine,  flooding  the  land  with  life  and  peace? 
Let  us  see.  Ten  days  after  the  queen's  coronation,  the 
Lords  and  Commons,  her  first  parliament,  assembled.  She 
appeared  amongst  them.  By  the  mouth  of  the  lord  keeper, 
Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  she  intimated  her  desire  to  unite  her 
people  in  one  uniform  order  of  religion.  The  history  of  all 
ages,  he  said,  instructed  them  to  submit  to  exemplary  punish- 
ment all  undue  worship  and  superstition,  especially  atheism 
and  immorality.  Good  king  Hezekiah,  and  noble  queen 
Esther,  were  eminent  examples  of  zeal  to  discharge  error, 
and  to  reform  what  was  amiss.  These  her  majesty  would 
emulate,  and  strive  thus  to  recommend  herself  to  the  appro- 
bation of  almighty  God.2 

By  the  first  act  of  the  session,  all  jurisdiction  over  the 
state  ecclesiastical  was  restored  to  the  crown.  With  the 
title  of  Supreme  Governor,  the  queen  was  invested  with 
supreme  power  over  the  church.  The  whole  compass 
of  church  discipline  was  transferred  to  her.  At  her 
bidding,  the  court  of  high  commission,  in  part  clerical 
and  in  part  lay,  might  proceed  to  reform  every  abuse,  to 
judge  error,  to  pronounce  the  doom  of  heresy,  and  to  punish 
all  schisms,  contempts,  and  offences,  as  they  might  think  fit. 
Heresy  was  defined  to  be  any  departure  from  the  canonical 
scriptures,   or  from   the   faith  established  by  the  first  four 

1   II).  i.  31,  18.  2  Collier,  vi.  204. 


ELIZABETH.  Xlll 

general  councils ;  also,  any  dogma,  which,  at  any  future 
time,  should  be  adjudged  heresy  by  the  parliament  of  the 
realm,  with  the  assent  of  the  clergy  in  convocation.  This 
profane  assumption  of  dominion  over  conscience  was  further 
enlarged  by  a  provision,  that  none  should  dare  to  adjudge  the 
order  or  determination  of  any  religious  matter,  made  by 
authority  of  parliament,  to  be  an  error,  heresy,  schism,  or 
schismatical  opinion,3 

On  this  broad  foundation  of  infallibility,  the  Houses  laid 
their  second  act,  to  provide  for  the  uniformity  of  common 
prayer  and  service  in  the  church,  and  administration  of  the 
sacraments.  They  adopted  the  second  service  book  of  Edward 
the  Sixth,  with  some  changes  to  make  it  more  palatable  to 
the  catholics.  "This  holy  little  book,"  was  now  restored  to 
the  church  of  England.  "  We  embraced  that  book,"  conti- 
nues the  zealous  bishop  of  Ely,  "  with  open  arms,  and  not 
without  thanks  to  God,  who  had  preserved  to  us  such  a 
treasure,  and  restored  it  to  us  in  safety." 4  Like  the  first 
statute,  this,  with  its  prescribed  liturgy,  was  guarded  by 
penalties.  After  the  ensuing  feast  of  John  the  Baptist,  all 
the  inhabitants  of  the  realm  were  diligently  and  faithfully,  on 
Sundays  and  feast  days,  to  appear  at  their  parish  church, 
there  to  join  in  common  prayer :  twelve  pence  was  the  fine 
for  absence.  But  if  any  should  be  so  wicked  as  to  defame 
"  this  holy  little  book,"  or  use  in  public  any  other  prayers  to 
the  God  of  heaven,  or  refuse  to  use  any  rite,  ceremony, 
matins,  evensong,  or  administration  of  the  sacraments,  or- 
dained therein :  then  shall  such  person  be  imprisoned  for 
half  a  year,  and  deprived  of  all  his  emoluments. 

The  passing  of  these  acts  was  strenuously  resisted  by  the 
catholics  in  the  upper  house ;  but  in  vain.     Xor  were  the 

3  Statutes  at  Large,  1  Eliz.  c.  i.  vol.  bishop  that  stirred  up  "  the  troubles  at 
vi.  p.  107.  Frankfort  "   about  the  prayer-book. — 

4  Cox  to  Gualter.     Feb.   12,    1571.  Phoenix,  ii.  72. 
Zurich  Lett.  i.  235.     It  was  this  very 


XIV  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

milder  and  more  pious  of  the  reformers  pleased  with  many 
of  the  rites  and  forms  imposed  by  the  act  of  uniformity,  and 
in  the  book  of  Common  Prayer.  Both  parties  objected  on  the 
ground  of  their  religious  opinions;  but  no  one  saw  how  unholy 
and  unscriptural  were  these  legislative  measures,  nor  how 
much  they  set  at  nought  the  rights  of  conscience.  And  when 
at  midsummer  (1559),  the  liturgy  was  introduced,  and  the 
oath  of  supremacy  administered,  only  eighty  rectors,  with  one 
hundred  and  seven  dignitaries  of  the  church,  in  all  one  hun- 
dred and  eighty-seven,  from  among  more  than  nine  thousand 
clergymen,  were  found  to  refuse  compliance.  A  memorable 
exhibition  of  the  power  of  self-interest,  and  of  the  little 
truthfulness  and  religion  then  existing  among  the  religious 
guides  of  the  people.5 

The  source  of  these  errors  in  legislation,  may  be  discovered 
in  the  views  of  the  reformers  on  the  nature  of  the  church. 
In  their  conference  with  the  catholics,  while  the  measures 
were  under  the  consideration  of  parliament,  the  protestants 
laid  down  the  following  proposition  for  debate.  "  Every  par- 
ticular church  hath  authority  to  institute,  change,  and  abrogate 
ceremonies  and  rites  in  the  church,  so  that  it  be  to  edify ;" 
and  they  thus  define  the  term,  "  every  particular  church :" — 
"  We  understand  every  particular  kingdom,  province,  or 
region,  which  by  order  make  one  Christian  society,  or  body, 
according  to  the  distinction  of  countries,  and  orders  of  the 
same."6  The  church  of  Christ  is  thus  made  co-extensive  with 
the  provinces,  nations,  and  kingdoms  of  the  world.  From  its 
fold  none  are  excluded,  however  profane.  Because  girt  about 
by  the  same  natural  boundaries,  the  godly  and  the  ungodly 


6  Cardwell's  Hist,  of  Conferences  on  Christian,  if  the  people  which  are  of  it 

Book  of  Common  Prayer,  p.  35.     Sta-  do  publicly  embrace  the  true  religion, 

tutes  at  Large,  1  Elizabeth,  c.  2.  this  very  thing  doth  make  it  the  church, 

*  Cardwell's  Hist,  of  Conferences,  &c.  as  hath  been  shewed.'"  Hooker's  Works, 

p.  72.     "  For  if  the  commonwealth  be  iii.  324,  Hanbury's  edit. 


ELIZABETH.  X\ 

are  united  into  one  ecclesiastical  community,  and  the  natural 
laws  which  govern  every  social  state,  must,  of  necessity,  be- 
come the  rule  and  standard  of  the  supernatural.  The  church 
ceases  to  be  the  fellowship  of  the  saints ;  the  saying  of  our 
Lord,  My  kingdom  is  not  of  this  world,  is  reversed.  Necessarily 
different  laws  than  those  he  has  instituted,  must  be  made  to 
govern  such  a  mixed  assemblage,  since  his  divine  legisla- 
tion has  respect  to  a  community,  constituted  by  repentance 
totvards  God,  and  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  terms 
of  communion  must  be  altered,  and  birth  of  blood,  of  the  ivill 
of  the  flesh,  and  the  icill  of  man,  may  suffice  to  make  a  son 
of  God.? 

With  great  consistency  the  protestant  divines  proceed  to 
say,  that  the  ceremonies  and  rites  of  the  church,  "  may  by 
God's  word,  by  general  councils,  and  by  particular  provinces, 
regions,  and  societies  of  Christians,  according  to  the  state  of 
the  times,  be  instituted  and  ordained,  changed  and  removed, 
upon  such  just  grounds,  causes,  and  considerations,  as  the  state 
of  the  times,  places,  people,  and  other  circumstances  shall 
require  ;  so  that  it  be  done  to  edify  God's  people."  8  In  other 
words,  a  political  state,  a  general  council,  and  God's  word,  are 
of  equal  and  co-ordinate  authority  in  the  church  of  God, 
that  is,  in  a  province  or  national  society  of  Christians ;  and 
in  questions  of  ecclesiastical  polity,  the  superiority  of  dominion 
is  with  the  magistrate,  or  political  chief  of  the  nation,  who  is 
also  the  "  supreme  governor"  of  the  church.  Thus,  "things 
of  their  own  nature  indifferent,"  may  be  lawfully  imposed  on 
the  consciences  of  men,  and  the  godly  be  compelled  to  submit 
to  an  authority  in  the  church,  unrecognised  in  the  oracles  of 
truth.  The  rule  laid  down  with  so  much  apparent  explicitness, 
that  such  things  only  may  be  enjoined  as  are  edifying  to  God's 
people,  it    is   self-evident,    is   worthless.      The    queen,   the 

f  Seethe  Order  of  Infant  Baptism,  in  8  Cardwell,  Hist,  of  Conf.  p.  72. 

the  Book  of  Common  Praver. 


XVI  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

depositary  of  the  nation's  power,  the  exponent  of  the  nation's 
will,  which  be  it  remembered  is  the  church,  is  edified  when  on 
bended  knee  she  offers  prayer  at  a  gilded  shrine,  with  her  eye 
glancing  upon  a  cross,  the  emblem  of  man's  redemption. 
But  her  bishops  are  scandalized  at  the  sight.  This  "  scenic 
apparatus  of  divine  worship"  offends  them.  "As  if,"  says 
Jewel,  "  the  Christian  religion  could  not  exist  without  some- 
thing tawdry."9  But  who  then  shall  decide?  The  word  of 
God?  The  bishops,  its  professed  expounders?  Whose  edifica- 
tion shall  be  the  rule  of  judgment  ?  It  is  the  queen,  and  the 
parliament  of  the  nation,  and  not  the  statute-book  of  Christ, 
which  shall  decide.  And  further,  it  shall  be  sedition,  treason 
to  the  magistrate,  to  venture  to  disobey,  or  even  to  call  in 
question  their  decisions.  "  For  the  queen,  a  most  discreet  and 
excellent  woman,  most  manfully  and  courageously  declared, 
that  she  would  not  allow  any  of  her  subjects  to  dissent  from 
this  religion  with  impunity."1 

It  is  obvious  that  on  such  principles  the  church  would  be 
sacrificed  to  the  world ;  that  a  reformation  thus  established 
would  be  adverse  to  the  claims  of  Jesus,  as  King  in  Zion ;  and 
that  a  foundation  would  be  laid  for  perpetual  strife  and 
division ;  for,  minds,  in  which  the  supremacy  of  God's  word  is 
acknowledged,  must,  sooner  or  later,  rise  in  rebellion  against 
the  supremacy  of  the  throne,  the  imposing  power,  and  en- 
deavour to  break  through  the  "  braided  trammels,"  woven  to 
keep  them  in  bondage  to  the  elements  of  the  world.  Such 
was  the  case :  and  to  that  strife  we  have  now  to  direct  our 
attention. 

9  To  Martyr  in  1599.  Zurich  Lett.i.23.  Holophernes,    the     sworn     enemy    of 

1  Jewel  to  Martyr,  May  20,  1560.  Christianity  ;   our  Hester  hath  hanged 

Zurich  Lett.  i.  79.     Saith   Archbishop  up  that  Haman  which  sought  to  bring 

Sandys  a  few  years  later,  as  the  beams  us  and  our  children  into  miserable  ser- 

of  royal  favour  fell  upon  him,  "Our  vitude."  — Sermons,    &c,    by   Sandys, 

Deborah   hath    mightily  repressed   the  Archbishop  of  York,  p.  81.      Tarker 

rebel  Jabin  ;  our  Judith  hath  beheaded  Society. 


ELIZABETH.  XV11 

Stringent  as  were  the  above  laws,  and  of  imperative  obliga- 
tion on  the  subjects  of  the  queen,  a  considerable  latitude  of 
practice  was  enjoyed  during  the  first  five  years  of  her  reign. 
Catholics  saw  no  such  great  change  in  external  ordinances,  as 
to  feel  their  absence  from  the  parish  churches  a  matter  of 
religious  necessity.  The  preachers  of  the  gospel  were  com- 
paratively few ;  hardly  one  in  a  hundred  of  the  clergy  was 
able  or  willing  to  preach.  Many  parishes  were  without  a 
clergyman,  and  some  dioceses  without  a  bishop.  Much  free- 
dom was  thus  enjoyed  by  those  who  had  at  heart  the  dissemi- 
nation of  divine  truth  ;  and  by  commendatory  letters  from  the 
queen  or  one  of  the  bishops,  some  few  eminent  men  were  per- 
mitted to  preach  throughout  the  country.2  Great  diversities 
likewise  existed  among  the  officiating  clergy ;  some  more 
than  others  adhering  to  the  rubric,  some  altogether  passing  it 
by.  So,  according  to  secretary  Cecil,  some  said  the  service 
and  prayers  in  the  chancel,  others  in  the  body  of  the  church ; 
some  officiated  in  a  seat,  others  in  a  pulpit ;  some  in  a  surplice, 
others  without ;  some  baptized  in  a  font,  others  in  a  bason ; 
some  signed  with  a  cross,  by  others  it  was  omitted ;  some 
of  the  clergy  wore  square  caps,  some  round  ones,  and  some 
hats.3  Some,  like  bishop  Jewel,  thought  the  habits  theatrical, 
employed  because  of  the  ignorance  of  the  priests,  who  being 
found  no  better  than  logs  of  wood,  without  talent,  learning, 
or  morality,  were  commended  to  the  people  "  by  that  comical 
dress."4  Others,  with  the  pious  Sampson,  called  them  "  the 
relics  of  the  Amorites,"  a  popish  invention,  to  be  abominated 
by  all  godly  people.5 

Such  disorders  were  intolerable.    They  broke  the  uniformity 


2  Lever  to  Bullinger,  July  10.  1660.  4  Jewel   to   Martyr,    Nov.  5,   1559. 
Zur.  Lett.  i.  85.                                              Zur.  Lett.  i.  52. 

3  Collier,  vi.  394.  5  Sampson  to  Martyr,  Jan.  6,  15G0. 

Ibid.  i.  64,  158. 


XV111  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

so  earnestly  desired.  This  variety  in  practice,  this  disagree- 
ment in  religion — as  if  religion  consisted  in  these  ceremonial 
observances  and  vestures, — and  this  disregard  of  the  establish- 
ment, disturbed  the  public  harmony,  and  disserved  the  govern- 
ment. So  the  queen  thought,  and  thus  she  wrote  to  the 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  chiding  him  and  his  fellow-bishops 
for  their  remissness,  and  commanding  them  to  exercise  their 
authority  with  more  vigilance  and  vigour.  She  was  resolved, 
she  said,  to  bring  her  subjects  to  conformity  ;  peevishness  and 
clamour  she  would  not  suffer  to  be  indulged ;  nor  should  any 
man's  obstinacy  shelter  him  from  punishment.6  The  bishops 
were  roused  to  exertion.  They  soon  (1564)  issued  certain 
disciplinary  laws,  to  which  the  clergy  were  to  be  compelled  to 
subscribe.  The  shapes  and  fashions  of  ecclesiastical  dress 
were  their  chief  subject.  Side-gowns  with  sleeves,  straight 
at  the  hand,  without  any  cuffs  or  falling  capes,  tippets  of  white 
sareenet,  silk  hoods,  caps,  copes,  comely  surplices  with  sleeves, 
were  among  the  weightier  matters  that  engaged  the  earnest 
attention  and  solemn  consultations  of  the  reverend  bench,  for 
the  "  avauncement  of  God's  glory,  and  to  the  establishmente 
of  Christe's  pure  religion."  That  none  might  avoid  the  impo- 
sition, all  licenses  to  preach  were  withdrawn  from  the  ensuing 
March,  and  not  renewed  until  the  clergy  should  append  their 
signatures  to  all  things  therein  prescribed.7 

A  strong  and  early  disinclination  to  wear  the  habits  had 
been  shown  by  Dr.  Thomas  Sampson,  dean  of  Christchurch, 
and  Dr.  Lawrence  Humphreys,  Regius  Professor  of  Divinity, 
and  President  of  Magdalen  College,  Oxford.  The  unseemli- 
ness of  these  superstitious  dresses  was  from  the  first  a  matter 
of  complaint  with  the  pious  Sampson.  From  Strasburg,  on 
his  way  home,  he  expressed  to  Peter  Martyr  his  dislike.  "  I 
think  it,"  says  he,  "  scarcely  endurable,  even  if  we  arc  to  act 

6  Collier,  vi.  395.  7   Doc.  Annals  i.  -Jii7 .     Collier,  vi.  400. 


ELIZABETH.  XIX 

in  all  things  according  to  the  law  of  expediency."8  The 
other  exiles  sympathized  in  his  objections,  and  fruitlessly 
endeavoured  to  set  the  obnoxious  garments  aside9  The 
popish  attachments  of  the  queen  to  crucifixes  and  images,  to 
silk  hoods  and  surplices,  even  led  Jewel  to  contemplate  the 
necessity  of  abandoning  his  bishopric.1  Nevertheless,  after  the 
publication  of  the  queen's  injunctions  (1559),  by  which  "  some 
ornaments,  such  as  the  mass-priests  formerly"  used,  were  pre- 
scribed, great  numbers  of  the  clergy,  who  had  put  them  off, 
resumed  them.  They  wore  them,  they  said,  for  the  sake  of 
obedience.  "  They  are  but  few  of  us,"  writes  Lever  to  his 
friend  Bullinger,  "  who  hold  such  garments  in  the  same 
abhorrence  as  the  soldier,  mentioned  by  Tertullian,  did  the 
crown."2  Thus  the  ears  and  eyes  of  the  multitude  were 
fascinated,  and  they  could  scarcely  believe  but  that  the  popish 
doctrine  was  retained,  or  would  be  shortly  restored.3 

But  the  latitude  hitherto  enjoyed,  by  the  connivance 
of  the  prelates,  was  now  to  cease.  The  publication  of 
the  advertisements,  the  disciplinary  laws  above-mentioned, 
was  immediately  followed  by  resolute  efforts  to  enforce 
them.  Deprivation  was  the  penalty  of  non-compliance. 
In  the  month  of  March  (1564),  Sampson  and  Humphreys, 
with  four  London  ministers,  were  cited  before  the  queen's 
commissioners.  All  the  six  declined  conformity  ;  they 
could  not  be  prevailed  upon,  although  submission  was 
sanctioned  by  several  of  the  foreign  reformers,  who  had 
gained  their  esteem  and  affection  in  the  years  of  exile. 
Every  indulgence  was  denied  them.  Conformity  or  depriva- 
tion was  the  alternative  absolutely  placed  before  them.4  On 
the  24th  of  March,  the  same  choice  was  proposed  to  the  whole 

8  Zurich  Letters,  i.  1.  2  Tertullianus  de  Corona,  c.  i. 

8  Strype,  Annals  I.  i.  263.  3  July  10,  1560.     Zur.  Lett.  i.  84. 

1  Jewel  to 'Martyr,    Feb.  9,    1560.  4  Soames's  Elizabeth.  Rel.  History, 

Zur.  Lett.  i.  68.  pp.  45,  46, 


XX  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

metropolitan  clergy.  A  conforming  priest,  clothed  in  the 
obnoxious  vestures,  was  placed  before  them.  "  My  masters," 
said  the  bishop's  chancellor,  "  the  council's  pleasure  is,  that 
ye  strictly  keep  unity  of  apparel,  like  to  this  man.  In  the 
church,  ye  must  wear  a  surplice ;  the  rubrics  in  the  book  of 
Common  Prayer,  the  queen5  s  majesty's  injunctions,  and  the 
articles,  ye  must  inviolably  observe.  Ye  that  will  subscribe, 
write  volo;  ye  that  will  not,  write  nolo.  Be  brief;  no  words." 
Efforts  to  speak  were  abruptly  stopped :  "  Peace,  peace ;  Ap- 
paritor, call  the  churches."  Thirty,  out  of  one  hundred  and 
forty,  preferred  immediate  sequestration;  and  with  few  ex- 
ceptions, were  deprived  at  the  end  of  the  three  months  allowed 
them  for  reflection.  The  papists  among  them  went  abroad. 
The  rest  welcomed  poverty,  rather  than  pollute  their  con- 
sciences with  an  unholy  compliance.5 

It  would  lead  us  beyond  our  purpose  to  detail  the  varying 
aspects  and  events  of  this  conflict.  The  matter  in  question 
appeared  trifling;  but  it  was  pregnant  with  the  most  important 
consequences.  The  whole  question  of  church  authority,  and 
of  human  intervention  in  divine  things,  was  stirred ;  and  the 
refusal  to  wear  a  surplice,  a  square  cap,  a  gown  of  peculiar 
fashion,  involving  as  it  did  the  duty  of  obedience  to  the 
ruling  power,  could  be  justified  only  by  an  appeal  to  the 
paramount  law,  that  Christ  alone  is  king  in  his  church.  The 
resulting  exclusion  of  the  secular  magistrate,  either  as  legis- 
lator or  administrator,  from  the  sacred  fold,  was  not  how- 
ever perceived ;  and  when  set  before  the  protestant  mind  by 
the  baptists,  was  deemed  visionary  and  impracticable;  nay, 
seditious  and  subversive  of  all  authority  whatsoever.  Yet, 
here  and  there,  in  the  examinations  and  writings  of  the  non- 
conformists, may  be  found  glimpses  of  the  fundamental 
objection  to  these  impositions ;  they  exalted  the  supremacy 

6  Soames,  pp.  47,  4!!. 


ELIZABETH.  XXI 

of  the  scriptures,  and  confidently  appealed  to  its  decisions, 
but  threw  open  the  flank  of  an  otherwise  impregnable 
position,  by  one  mistaken  conclusion.  They  were  fatally 
inconsistent  in  recognising  any  human  authority,  or  royal 
supremacy,  in  the  church  of  Christ,  while  they  objected  to 
consequences  inevitably  flowing  from  its  exercise.  The  bible 
and  the  statute-book  cannot  possess  a  co-ordinate  jurisdic- 
tion; one  must  reign  supreme.  The  puritans,  therefore, 
erred  in  admitting  a  foreign  authority  into  the  kingdom  of 
the  Most  High — that  of  men. 

The  chief  arguments  employed  against  the  habits  were  two. 
1.  That  all  things  in  the  church  ought  to  edify.  2.  That  the 
queen  had  no  right  to  impose  anything  besides  scripture,  or 
contrary  to  it.  The  apparel  in  question  had  been  abused  to 
idolatrous  purposes ;  it  was  offensive  from  its  associations,  and 
therefore  unedifying  to  the  children  of  God.  Neither  could 
the  scriptures  of  truth,  nor  the  elder  fathers,  be  brought  to 
sanction  such  a  dress,  for  the  ministry  of  the  new  dispensation. 
Christ  had  purchased  a  liberty  for  his  people  which  ought  to 
be  maintained,  and  royal  interference  must  be  confined  to  the 
enforcement  of  his  instructions.6  This  latter  admission  of  the 
nonconformists  breached  their  munition  of  rock. 

And  now  the  godly  mourned.  Schism  began  to  rend  the 
church ;  the  fair  prospect  was  overspread  with  clouds.  In 
vain  they  awaited  the  guidance  of  the  Divine  Spirit ;  for  the 
queen,  who  held  the  helm,  directed  the  bark  "  according  to 
her  pleasure."  Under  her  charge  it  was  drifting  fast  towards 
the  sands  of  a  shifting,  worldly  policy ;  and  ere  long  some 
would  be  compelled  to  abandon  a  vessel  whose  pilot,  neither 
truth  nor  zeal,  piety  nor  importunity,  could  persuade  to  turn 
the  "  sails  to  another  quarter." 7 

6  Neal,  i.  141— 143,  note.  August   8,    1571.     Zurich   Letters,    ii. 

7  See   Horn's    Letter    to   Bullinger,       248. 


XX11 


SECTION   II. 
THE    PURITANS. 

Symptoms  of  further  movement  soon  began  to  appear; 
and  many  other  matters  to  be  called  in  question,  beside  caps 
and  copes.  As  scripture  did  not  authorise  their  use,  so  were 
there  some  other  things  not  found  written  therein,  but  to 
which  the  rulers  of  the  church  most  pertinaciously  adhered. 
Were  archbishops,  bishops,  deans,  archdeacons,  rectors,  vicars, 
curates,  commissaries,  &c.  necessary  parts  of  the  sacred  edifice, 
whose  builder  and  maker  is  God?  From  whom  was  derived  the 
royal  title  of  supreme  governor  of  the  church  of  England? 
Was  there  not  another  Head,  whose  claim  was  infinitely  more 
legitimate,  but  disallowed  by  English  parliaments  and  queen's 
councils?  Who  imparted  the  right  of  limiting  the  prayers  of 
the  faithful  to  the  book  of  Common  Prayer  ?  Were  there  no 
"  absurdities  and  silly  superfluities  "  in  it  ?  Was  it  not  com- 
posed "after  the  model,  and  in  the  manner  of  the  papists?" 
Whence  came  the  commissary's  power  of  excommunication, 
and  the  absolution  of  the  excommunicated  in  private,  "without 
any  trouble,  and  for  a  sum  of  money  ?"  Were  episcopal 
courts,  courts  of  arches  and  audience,  and  courts  of  faculties, 
granting  licenses  for  non-residence,  pluralities,  dispensations, 
&c.  scriptural  additions  to  the  courts  of  the  Lord's  house? 
Part-singing  in  churches,  organs,  tolling  bells  at  funerals,  and 
on  vigils  of  saints,  bowing  at  the  name  of  Jesus,  baptism  at 
private  houses  and  by  women,  the  sign  of  the  cross,  the 
sponsorial  responses  of  the  infant, — were  these,  and  other  such 
things,  becoming  the  simplicity,  and  according  to  the  precepts, 
of  the   gospel?      And   last,  but   not  least,   was   it   not  an 


THE  PURITANS.  XX111 

unheard-of  assumption,  that  "  the  queen's  majesty,  with  the 
advice  of  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  may  order,  change, 
and  remove  any  thing  in  the  church  at  her  pleasure  ?  "  8 

Yet  these  truly  unscriptural  laws  and  institutions  were 
rigorously  enforced,  and  the  queen's  known  determination 
destroyed  the  hope  of  any  relaxation.  The  hardships  and 
deprivations  of  many  godly  uncompliant  men,  induced  many, 
in  the  year  1566,  to  separate  from  the  established  worship. 
Despite  the  meanness  of  their  condition,  and  the  perils  that 
surrounded  them,  they  "  stood  to  the  truth  of  God's  word ;" 
and  sometimes  in  private  houses,  sometimes  in  the  fields,  and 
occasionally  even  in  ships,  they  held  their  meetings  and 
administered  the  sacraments.  They  also  ordained  them 
ministers  and  deacons,  and  exercised  discipline  upon  such  as 
walked  not  according  to  godliness.9  In  this  separation,  they 
had  not  the  sympathy  of  all  who  agreed  with  them  as  to  the 
objectionable  nature  of  the  established  worship.  Many  still 
clung  to  the  vain  hope  of  a  purer  ritual.  They  thought  the 
evils  of  separation  greater  than  submission  to  episcopal  and 
royal  commands.  The  church's  standards  of  doctrine  were 
pure,  from  her  pulpits  many  proclaimed  the  way  of  salvation, 
and  the  points  of  agreement  were  more  than  those  of  difference. 
Thus  did  such  men  as  Fox,  Sampson,  and  Humphreys  argue, 
and  cleave  to  a  community,  which  had  been  sanctified  in  their 
affections  by  the  blood  of  many  saints.1 

The  separatists,  however,  became  more  bold.  In  the  fol- 
lowing year  they  ventured  to  assemble  at  Plumber's  Hall,  in 
London.  Being  discovered,  the  sheriffs  broke  up  their  meet- 
ing, and  took  the  greater  part  into  custody.  The  day  after, 
they  were  brought  before  bishop  Grindal,  who  charged  them 
with  their  separation  as  a  crime,  and  that  thereby  they  con- 

8  The  Church  of  England  as  described  9  Grindal  to  Bullinger,  June  1 1, 1568. 

by  Perceval  Wiburn.     Zurich  Letters,       Zur.  Lett.  i.  201. 
ii.  358.  »  Price,  i.  198. 


XXIV  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

demned  the  well-reformed  church  of  England,  for  which 
martyrs  had  shed  their  blood.  Why  had  they  separated? 
Were  not  the  sacraments  duly  ministered,  and  the  gospel 
truly  preached?  Were  not  the  ceremonies  indifferent,  and 
under  the  prince's  power  to  command  for  the  sake  of  order  ? 
"  So  long,"  said  John  Smith,  one  of  the  compan}^,  "  as  we 
might  have  the  word  freely  preached,  and  the  sacraments 
administered  without  the  use  of  idolatrous  gear,  we  never 
assembled  in  private  houses.  But  when  all  our  preachers, 
who  could  not  subscribe  to  your  apparel  and  your  laws,  were 
displaced,  so  that  we  could  not  hear  any  of  them  in  the  church 
for  the  space  of  seven  or  eight  weeks,  excepting  father  Cover- 
dale,  who  at  length  durst  not  make  known  to  us  where  he 
preached ;  and  then  we  were  troubled  in  your  courts  from 
day  to  day,  for  not  coming  to  our  parish  churches ;  we  con- 
sidered among  ourselves  what  we  should  do."  Being  thus 
driven  from  the  Anglican  pale,  they  formed  a  congregation 
after  the  example  of  one  in  Queen  Mary's  days,  using  in 
their  worship  a  book  formerly  approved  by  Calvin.  Their 
further  objections  embraced  the  hierarchy  of  the  church. 
They  asserted  that  the  kingly  authority  of  Jesus  Christ  was 
sacrificed  to  popish  canons  and  the  prince's  will.  By  that 
"prince's  will,  they  too  were  sacrificed"  to  the  phantom  of 
uniformity :  they  were  cast  into  prison.  It  was  the  beginning 
of  sorrows.  Severities  multiplied.  The  prisons  of  London 
were  soon  filled  with  a  numerous  band  of  men,  to  whom  a 
good  conscience  was  of  more  value,  than  the  wealth  and  pre- 
ferments of  the  state  church.2 

An  able  and  learned  expositor  of  the  advancing  sentiments 
of  the  nonconformists,  now  appeared  in  the  person  of  Mr. 
Thomas  Cartwright.  He  availed  himself  of  his  public  position 
as  divinity  lecturer  at  Cambridge,  to  proclaim  the  necessity 

2  Parte  of  a  Register,  23—37.     Grindal's  Remains,  p.  369. 


THE    PURITANS.  XXV 

of  further  reformation,  and  of  a  return  to  the  practice  of  apos- 
tolic men.  He  asserted  that  a  divine  model  of  church  polity 
was  prepared  in  scripture,  to  which  every  ecclesiastical  arrange- 
ment should  conform.  The  titles  and  offices  of  archbishops 
and  archdeacons  were  not  there;  they  must  be  suppressed. 
The  names  of  bishops,  too,  must  be  rejected,  since  the  office 
no  longer  resembled  the  apostolic  institute.  Character  and 
ability  to  exercise  the  functions  of  a  teacher  and  pastor,  must 
be  peremptorily  required  of  all  who  aspired  to  be  ministers 
of  the  church.  In  many  other  particulars  the  Anglican  forms 
needed  amendment,  and  ought  to  be  reduced  to  the  primitive 
pattern :  then  only  could  the  church  of  England  be  regarded 
as  a  church  of  Christ.3  These  were  dangerous  doctrines, 
subversive  of  the  very  being  of  the  establishment.  Their 
defender  was  suspended  from  his  office,  expelled  the  univer- 
sity, and  for  a  time  compelled  to  reside  abroad. 

Meanwhile  the  sufferings  of  the  non-compliant  ministers 
increased ;  they  were  every  where  harassed  by  examinations, 
suspensions,  deprivations,  and  imprisonments.  Subscription 
was  strictly  insisted  on.  The  house  of  commons  was  haughtily 
commanded  not  to  interfere  with  the  queen's  prerogative  in 
ecclesiastical  affairs ;  and  the  aged  but  energetic  proposer  of 
further  reformation,  was  forbidden  to  enter  the  house  during 
her  pleasure.  "  The  world,"  it  was  said,  "  cannot  bear  two 
suns,  much  less  can  the  kingdom  endure  two  queens,  or  two 
religions."4 

These  rigorous  proceedings  were  not,  and  could  not  be 
regarded  as  arising  from  a  jealous  watchfulness  over  the 
interests  of  Christ's  kingdom.  "  How  the  most  part  of  the 
bishops,"  writes  one  of  the  deprived  ministers,  "  by  wealth, 
honours,  and  dignity,   are  blinded,   the  present  storms   and 


3  Collier,  vi.  485.     Neal,  i.  173.  Pilkington  to  Bullinger,  July  15,  1570. 

4  Neal,  i.    185.       Soames,    p.    147.       Zur.  Lett.  i.  222. 


XXVI  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

tempests,  wherewith  God's  people  are  tossed,  do  sufficiently 
declare."  They  could  not  be  sincerely  anxious  to  cast  out 
H  the  rags  and  dregs"  of  popery,  while  they  stretched  to  the 
uttermost  their  authority  to  keep  them ;  for  they  who  would 
not  use  them,  were  forbidden  to  preach,  deprived,  and  im- 
prisoned. Thousands  of  unworthy  men  were  permitted  to 
exercise  their  ministry,  and  to  enjoy  livings;  while  fit  and 
competent  men  were  thrust  out,  because  unwilling  to  wear  the 
pope's  livery.  Immorality,  the  saying  of  mass  for  many  years, 
gaming,  and  drunkenness,  were  no  bar  to  promotion,  if  only 
such  persons  would  obey  the  episcopal  injunctions.  Dis- 
obedience to  the  unscriptural  regulations  of  the  prince,  was 
visited  with  the  severest  penalties  by  these  pretended  shep- 
herds, but  no  notice  taken  of  disobedience  to  God.5 

At  length,  in  1572,  the  controversy  assumed  a  form  more 
menacing  to  the  stability  of  the  church  than  it  had  yet  done. 
Though  of  much  influence  in  the  house  of  commons,  the 
puritan  party  failed  to  obtain  any  relief.  Or,  as  the  spirited 
Wentworth  afterwards  said,  "  God  would  not  vouchsafe 
that  his  Holy  Spirit  should  all  that  session  descend  upon 
our  bishops,  so  that  in  that  session  nothing  was  done  to  the 
advancement  of  his  glory."  °  Immediately  after  the  proroga- 
tion, the  famous  Admonition  to  Parliament  appeared.  The 
effect  of  it  was  great  and  immediate,  and  threw  consternation 
into  the  intrenchments  of  the  church.  Such  bold  language 
had  not  been  heard  before  ;  the  mitre  was  challenged  to  a  fall. 
It  commences  with  a  reference  to  the  citations  and  deprivations 
of  "  many  ministers  of  God's  holy  word  and  sacraments,"  by 
her  majesty's  high  commissioners,  and  prays  the  interference 
of  the  house.  It  then  details  with  much  energy  and  sharp- 
ness,  it  may  be  said  irritation,  the  many  grievances  under 


5  A  Comfortable  Epistle,  &c.    Parte  a  Speech   in    1575.      Parliamentary 

of  a  Register,  pp.  2 — 9.  History,  iv.  L05. 


THE   PURITANS.  XXV11 

which  those  desirous  of  further  reformation  suffered.  The 
prayer-book,  they  said,  was  picked  and  culled  out  of  that 
popish  dunghill,  the  portuise  and  mass-book;  the  homilies 
were  too  homely  to  be  set  in  the  place  of  scripture;  the 
title  of  priests  was  a  denial  of  Christ's  having  come,  or 
a  memorial  of  the  popish  priesthood;  the  rites  employed 
in  infant  baptism  were  childish  and  superstitious  toys  ; 
confirmation  was  popish  and  peevish;  churching  of  women 
smelt  of  Jewish  purifications  ;  the  psalms  were  tossed 
like  tennis  balls,  so  confused  was  their  order ;  divine  ser- 
vice was  often  profanely  hurried,  that  the  minister  might  go 
to  his  second  church,  and  the  people  to  their  games,  dancing, 
bull-baiting,  and  above  all,  to  the  interludes ;  the  whole 
hierarchy,  from  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury  to  the  meanest 
sexton,  was  opposed  to  the  word  of  God ;  a  true  ministry  and 
regiment  of  the  church  were  entirely  wanting.  To  the 
articles,  however,  they  were  willing  to  subscribe.  They 
conclude  with  a  prayer,  "  that  the  reign  of  antichrist  may 
be  turned  out  headlong  from  amongst  us,  and  Christ  our 
Lord  may  reign  over  us  by  his  word."7 

The  authors  of  this  bold  appeal  to  the  nation's  representa- 
tives, and  of  these  sweeping  accusations  against  the  church, 
were  Mr.  John  Field  and  Mr.  Thomas  Willcocks,  two  puritan 
clergymen  of  celebrity.  Both  were  immediately  imprisoned 
in  Newgate.  The  archbishop's  intolerance  had,  at  length,  led 
men  to  question  the  authority  that  oppressed  them,  and 
a  rival  polity  now  stood  forth  to  claim  the  affections,  and  to 
arrest  the  judgment  of  the  godly.  Henceforth  the  conflict 
was  not  for  mere  concessions,  nor  for  the  removal  of  offen- 
sive apparel  from  the  services  of  the  church ;  the  very  ex- 
istence of  the  hierarchy  was  threatened,  and  a  new  aspirant 
to    dominion    over    conscience    appeared,    when   presbytery 

7  An  Admonition  to  Parliament,  12mo.    It  has  neither  name,  place,  nor  date. 

c  2 


XXV111  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

stood  forth  in  array  before  the  entrenched  hosts  of  established 
episcopacy. 

Mr.  Cartwright  returned  about  this  time  from  exile,  and 
supported  the  first  by  a  Second  Admonition.  In  this  he 
lays  down  the  new  "  platform"  of  church  discipline,  taking 
the  Genevan  presbyterial  government  for  his  model.  He 
endeavours  to  strengthen  his  positions  by  an  appeal  to 
scripture,  on  which  all  church  polity  as  well  as  doctrine 
depends.  But  to  give  his  system  stability,  he  enunciates 
the  following  important  sentiment.  "  The  civil  magistrate, 
the  nurse  and  foster-father  of  the  church,  shall  do  well 
to  provide  some  sharp  punishment  for  those  that  contemn 
this  censure  and  discipline  of  the  church,  for  no  doubt  it 
is  in  the  degree  of  blasphemy,  of  a  heathen,  our  Saviour 
says,  that  renounceth  God  and  Christ."8  Near  the  close, 
in  an  appeal  to  the  queen,  he  further  urges  the  point. 
"  We  beseech  her  majesty  to  have  the  hearing  of  this  matter 
of  God's,  and  to  take  the  defence  of  it  upon  her;  and  to 
fortify  it  by  law,  that  it  may  be  received  by  common  order 
throughout  her  dominions.  For  though  the  orders  be,  and 
ought  to  be,  drawn  out  of  the  book  of  God,  yet  it  is  her 
majesty,  that  by  her  princely  authority,  should  see  every  of 
these  things  put  in  practice,  and  punish  those  that  neglect 
them,  making  laws  therefore ;  for  the  church  may  keep  these 
orders,  but  never  in  peace,  except  the  comfortable  and  blessed 
assistance  of  the  states  and  governors  link  in  to  see  them 
accepted  in  their  countries  and  used."  9  Such  was  the  foun- 
dation laid  by  this  great  puritan  divine,  and  we  look  in 
vain  through  his  writings  to  find  any  higher  views  of  human 
freedom  in  the  church  of  God. 

8  A  Second  Admonition,  &c.  p.  49.  in    this    our  vineyard    neither    thorns 

9  Ibid.  p.  GO.  "  But,"  saith  arch-  nor  thistles,  but  the  true  vine— Christ, 
bishop  Sandys,  "  our  skilful  house-  This  vine  hath  been  diligently  watered 
holder,  our  wise  governor,  hath  planted  with  the  dew  of  God's  truth  sincerely 


THE    PURITANS.  XXIX 


This  publication  of  Mr.  Cartwright,  was  followed  in  a  few 
weeks  by  Dr.  Whitgift's  Answer  to  the  first  Admonition ;  at 
the  close  of  which  he  briefly  refers  to  the  second.  In  his 
introduction,  Whitgift  endeavours,  at  some  length,  to  fix  on 
the  monitors  the  charge  of  Anabaptistry ;  in  that  they  con- 
sidered not,  the  authority  due  to  the  magistrate  in  ecclesiastical 
matters,  nor  the  inapplicability  of  scripture  rules  to  the  vary- 
ing circumstances  of  time  and  place.1  Cartwright,  in  his 
reply,  published  in  the  following  year,  disclaimed  this  identity. 
He  fully  admitted  the  magistrate's  authority,  and  acknow- 
ledged its  lawfulness ;  but  maintained  that  it  was  limited  in 
its  exercise  by  the  scriptures.  Truth  might  and  ought  to  be 
established  and  held  by  the  civil  power ;  but  not  a  hierarchy 
and  a  discipline  having  no  foundation  therein.  Two  other 
large  volumes  followed  these,  one  on  either  side ;  but  it  were 
too  long  to  enter  upon  the  numerous  subjects  of  discussion 
embraced  by  them.  It  will  suffice,  if  we  mark  the  agreement 
or  difference  of  opinion  of  the  disputants,  on  one  or  two 
of  the  main  features  of  the  strife. 

The  controversy  turned  upon  two  important  points — church 
polity  and  church  authority ;  or  the  sufficiency  of  scripture 
as  a  rule  for  ecclesiastical  discipline,  and  the  nature  and  extent 
of  the  magistrates'  authority  in  or  over  the  church.  On  the 
first  topic  they  were  at  irreconcilable  variance.  Whitgift 
would  grant  scripture  to  be  the  only  rule  for  doctrine,  but 
for  the  rest,  the  church  hath  power  to  decree  rites  and 
ceremonies.  On  the  general  question,  the  arguments  of 
Cartwright  were  conclusive  and  triumphant ;  but  he  had  to 


preached, — with    his   sacraments   reve-  more  instructed  ;    no   vineyard  in  the 

rently   administered,   according   to   his  world   more  beautiful  or  goodly  to  be- 

will  ;  it  hath  been  under-propped  with  hold." — Sermons,  p.  59.    Parker  Society 

the  continuance  of  authority,  and  de-  edition. 

fence  of  zealous  Christian  magistrates.  1  An  Answere  to  a  certen  Libel,  &c. 

....  No  flock  better  fed  ;   no  people  p.  1,  4to,  1572. 


XXX  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

encounter  great  difficulties  in  establishing  his  synodal  and  con- 
sistorial  discipline,  as  the  order  of  the  New  Testament.  With 
his  opponent,  the  learned  puritan  was  compelled  to  resort 
to  patristical  authority,  for  proofs  of  some  of  his  positions; 
and  not  a  little  ingenuity  does  he  display  in  order  to 
evade  the  force  of  the  intractable  passages  quoted  against 
him.  If  the  testimony  of  the  fathers  had  sufficed  to  prove 
episcopacy  to  be  the  divine  polity  of  the  church,  then  did 
Whitgift  gain  the  advantage ;  on  scriptural  grounds  he  was 
overthrown  by  the  learned  puritan.  The  episcopalian  could, 
however,  solace  himself  with  the  discomfiture  which  the 
presbytery,  the  holy  discipline  of  his  antagonist,  met  with  at 
his  hands. 

On  the  second  topic,  the  authority  of  the  prince,  Whitgift 
justified  the  appellation  of  head  of  the  church,  given  to  the 
reigning  sovereign ;  and  boldly  asserted,  not  only  that  it  was 
his  duty  to  enforce  obedience  to  the  doctrines  and  commands 
of  God's  word,  but  to  arrange,  and  even  invent,  new  ceremo- 
nies in  the  church,  for  order  and  decency.2  Cartwright  admitted 
the  duty  of  the  magistrate  to  enforce  doctrine,  but  rejected 
the  title  of  head,  as  clashing  with  the  only  headship  of  Christ ; 
and  limited  his  authority  to  the  imposition  of  that  polity 
which  was  revealed  in  scripture.  Christ,  he  said,  was  the  only 
King  and  Head  in  his  church,  and  had  committed  to  pastors 
and  teachers,  the  exercise  of  discipline  according  to  his  word ; 
it  was  spiritual  in  its  origin  and  object,  and  must  be  adminis- 
tered by  spiritual  men,  lawfully  called  and  ordained  thereto. 
But  it  was  incumbent  on  the  magistrate  to  establish,  within 

2  Thirty  years  later  it  was  asserted,  m  it  hath  power,  a  fortiori,  to  set  down 
a  book  dedicated  to  the  Archbishop  of  orders  and  laws  for  the  apparel  of 
Canterbury,  "  Our  church  hath  this  day  ministers,"  &c. ! — The  Regiment  of  the 
power  to  have  instituted  the  baptism  of  Church,  as  it  is  agreeable  with  Scrip- 
infants,  although  it  had  not  been  used  tures,  &c.  By  Thomas  Bell,  London, 
in  former  ages.    And  consequently,  that  HiOti,  4to.  p.  184. 


THE   PURITANS.  XXXI 

his  jurisdiction,  this  true  and  godly  discipline,  and  to  aid,  with 
his  civil  power,  the  presbytery  in  enforcing  it.  Whitgift  was 
not  slow  to  perceive,  that  this  was  a  return  to  the  papal  doc- 
trine of  the  church's  independence  of  the  state :  while  at  the 
same  time  it  made  the  civil  power  subservient  to  it.  "  It  bring- 
eth  in  a  new  popedom  and  tyranny  into  the  church,"  said  he. 

But  Cartwright's  views  of  the  power  of  the  magistrate  did 
not  stop  here.  He  asserted,  that  the  judicial  laws  of  Moses, 
which  were    "  merely    politic  and  without   all   mixture   of 

ceremonies,  must  remain  ; forasmuch   as  there  is  in  those 

laws  a  constant  and  everlasting  equity  ;"  therefore,  in  making 
political  laws,  Christian  magistrates  ought  to  propound  those 
laws  unto  themselves,  and  in  the  light  of  their  equity, 
frame  them.3  Hence  he  concluded  that  contemners  of  the 
word  ought  to  be  put  to  death ;  since,  "  he  that  despiseth  the 
word  of  God,  despiseth  God  himself."  For,  "  if  it  be  meet 
to  maintain  the  life  of  man,  by  the  punishment  of  death,  how 
should  the  honour  of  God,  which  is  more  precious  than  all 
men's  lives,  be  with  smaller  punishment  established."  And 
he  goes  on  to  assert,  that  the  immoralities,  perjuries,  and 
murders,  which  abounded  in  the  land,  owed  their  prevalence 
to  the  "want  of  sharp  and  severe  punishment,  especially 
against  idolaters,  blasphemers,  contemners  of  true  religion 
and  of  the  service  of  God."  4 

The  disputants  were  agreed  upon  two  principles  which 
were  fundamental  in  the  controversy ;  their  differences  arose 
in  the  application  of  them.  Both  believed,  1.  That  the 
church  should  be  a  national  church,  and  not  a  mere  congre- 
gation of  believers  ;  2.  That  a  divine  obligation  lay  upon  the 

3  Second  Replie,  p.  97,  edit.  1575.  this  passage  call  to  mind  those  tones  of 

4  Ibid.  pp.  68, 117.  Hallam  remarks,  infatuated  arrogance  which  had  been 
after  quoting  a  somewhat  similar  pas-  heard  from  the  lips  of  Gregory  VII., 
sage  to  the  above,  "  It  is  difficult  to  and  of  those  who  trod  in  his  footsteps." 
believe  that  I  am  transcribing  the  words  — Const.  Hist.  i.  254.  See  also  Short, 
nf  a  protestant  writer  ;   so  much  does  p.  182. 


XXX11  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

magistrate  to  maintain,  vi  et  armis,  the  true  religion — that  is, 
Christianity.  They  divided  on  the  question,  which  of  the 
two  competing  theories,  episcopacy  or  presbytery,  ought  to 
be  the  favoured  polity.  The  puritan  would  have  the  point 
determined  by  scripture  only,  the  episcopalian  by  scripture 
and  the  fathers.  It  was  a  mere  question  of  polity ;  in  doc- 
trinal sentiment  they  were  agreed.  The  thirty-nine  articles 
were  to  each  party  the  law  of  belief,  and  were  willingly  sub- 
scribed by  both.  Whether,  therefore,  the  prince  became  the 
head  of  the  church,  or  merely  the  executor  of  its  decrees,  the 
result  must  be  the  same — oppression  of  conscience,  and  the  per- 
secution of  the  dissentient.  And  at  this  distance  of  time, 
looking  at  the  state  of  the  nation,  sunk  in  ignorance  and  vice, 
and  at  the  historical  results  of  the  one  polity,  and  the  pro- 
bable effects  of  the  other,  apart  from  any  scriptural  authority 
that  either  might  show,  we  are  inclined  to  think,  that  the  epis- 
copal, under  all  the  circumstances,  was  the  preferable  polity  of 
the  two.  The  sterner  features  of  the  presbyterian  discipline,  its 
provisions  for  a  close  and  systematic  inquiry  into  the  social 
life  of  the  community,  and  that  inquisition  brought  to  bear 
upon  an  ill-instructed  and  immoral  people,  would  have  led  to 
more  suffering,  and  wider-spread  persecution,  than  that  which 
befell  the  earnest,  and  generally  pious,  upholders  of  the 
"holy  discipline."  Even  while  themselves  enduring  the 
many  hardships  entailed  by  a  conscientious  adherence  to  their 
views,  they  often  urged  most  strenuously  upon  the  ruling 
powers,  the  proscription,  expatriation,  and  punishment  of  the 
catholics.  "It  was  good  policy,"  said  one,  "to  root  out  the 
sprigs  of  popery."  All  history  showed  how  necessary  it  was, 
"when  thou  hast  subdued  thy  capital  enemy,  or  banished 
him,  to  root  out  all  his  friends."  5  The  example  of  Calvin 
and  Servetus  would  doubtless  have  had  its  counterpart 
under  a  presbyterian  rule. 

r'  An  Humble  Motion  to  the  Lords  of  the  Council,  p.  M.  ed.  1599. 


THE    PURITANS.  XXX111 

The  boldness  and  extent  of  the  change  advocated  in  the 
Admonitions,  and  in  Cartwright's  replies,  awakened  the  fears 
and  the  anger  of  the  queen  and  hierarchy.  In  the  month  of 
June  (1573),  a  condemnatory  proclamation  was  published. 
All  who  possessed  copies  of  these  books  were  ordered  to 
bring  them  in  for  destruction.  Before  the  close  of  the  year, 
another  manifesto  was  issued,  denouncing  these  despisers  of 
the  order  settled  in  the  church,  and  of  the  common  prayer ; 
"  wherein  is  nothing  contained  but  the  scripture  of  God,  and 
that  which  is  consonant  unto  it."  The  bishops  were  directed 
to  enforce  yet  more  strictly  the  Act  for  Uniformity.  But 
although  these  writings  were  in  wide  circulation,  thirty-four 
copies  only,  which  lay  in  the  hands  of  a  bookseller,  were 
brought  in.6 

It  is  unnecessary  to  trace  the  progress  of  events  to  the 
period  of  the  queen's  death.  One  uniform  course  of  repres- 
sion and  punishment  of  the  puritans  was  adopted.  Many 
hundreds  of  pious  and  holy  men  were  excluded  from  the 
ministry,  deprived  of  their  property,  and  often  of  life,  through 
long  and  painful  imprisonments.  With  growing  severities 
the  bitterness  of  both  parties  increased,  and  innumerable 
violent  publications  added  fuel  to  the  flame.  The  Marprelate 
tracts  stood  prominently  forth,  as  incentives  to  greater 
rigour,  and  were  doubtless  injurious  to  the  cause  they  were 
intended  to  serve.  A  new  feature  was  introduced  into  the 
controversy,  when,  for  the  first  time,  it  was  asserted  by  Ban- 
croft, in  a  sermon  at  St.  Paul's  cross,  in  1589,  that  epis- 
copacy was  a  divine  ordinance ;  that  the  bishops  had  a 
supremacy  over  the  clergy  by  divine  right,  "and  were  em- 
powered, by  virtue  of  their  commission  from  heaven,  to 
superintend  and  regulate  their  proceedings."7  This  new 
element  of  strife  was  vigorously  assailed ;  but  no  refutation 

*  Doc.  Annals,  i.  348.     Neal,  i.  195.  7  Price,  i.  376. 


XXXIV  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

of  such  extravagant  claims,  removed,  in  the  least,  the  oppres- 
sive burdens  under  which  the  consciences  of  the  puritans 
groaned.  The  reign  of  Elizabeth  closed,  without  any  advance 
in  the  reformation  so  earnestly  desired,  so  boldly  attempted, 
and  so  courageously  maintained. 


SECTION   III. 

THE  BROWNISTS. 

More  correct  views  of  the  nature  of  the  church  of 
Christ,  were  slowly  winning  their  way  through  the  con- 
tentions of  the  two  great  parties  dividing  the  nation,  and 
struggling  for  mastery.  It  is  not  known  whence  Robert 
Browne  acquired  those  opinions,  which,  about  the  year 
1580,  he  began  to  propagate  in  the  counties  of  Norfolk 
and  Suffolk.  He  had,  some  years  before,  made  himself 
obnoxious  by  his  bold  invectives  against  the  established 
order,  and,  with  several  other  puritans,  was  cited,  in  1571, 
before  archbishop  Whitgift.  His  high  connexions  for  a  time 
protected  him.  But  he  now  began  to  preach  and  disseminate 
opinions,  which  were  alike  destructive  of  episcopacy  and 
presbytery,  and  of  a  national  church  under  either  form. 

He  said,  that  "The  church  planted  and  gathered,  is  a 
company,  or  number,  of  Christians  and  believers,  which  by  a 
willing  covenant  made  with  their  God,  are  under  the  govern- 
ment of  God  and  Christ,  and  keep  his  laws  in  one  holy  com- 
munion. .  .  .  The  kingdom  of  Christ  is  his  office  of  govern- 
ment, whereby  he  useth  the  obedience  of  his  people  to  keep 
his  laws  and  commandments,  to  their  salvation  and  welfare. 
.  .  .  The  kingdom  of  antichrist  is  his  government  confirmed 


THE    BROWNISTS.  XXXV 

by  the  civil  magistrate,  whereby  he  abuseth  the  obedience  of 
the  people  to  keep  his  evil  laws  and  customs,  to  their  own 
damnation.  .  .  .  Civil  magistrates,  are  persons  authorized  of 
God,  and  received  by  the  consent  or  choice  of  the  people, 
whether  officers  or  subjects,  or  by  birth  and  succession  also, 
to  make  and  execute  laws  by  public  agreement ;  to  rule  the 
commonwealth  in  all  outward  justice ;  and  to  maintain  the 
right,  welfare,  and  honour  thereof,  with  outward  power, 
bodily  punishments,  and  civil  forcing  of  men."  8 

Thus  Browne  would  have  the  church  composed  of  true 
Christians  only,  excluding  therefrom  all  human  law.  He 
inveighed  strongly  against  the  puritans  for  their  pusillanimity 
and  sin,  in  awaiting  a  reformation  by  the  magistrate.  It 
was  a  duty  that  they  owed  to  God,  to  separate  from 
the  antichristian  community  to  which  they  clung,  and 
to  set  up  at  once  the  building  and  kingdom  of  the  Lord. 
Such  sentiments  soon  brought  upon  him  prelatical  wrath, 
and  he  was  compelled  to  fly.  At  Middelburg,  in  Zealand, 
he,  with  many  of  his  adherents,  found  a  refuge.  Differ- 
ences of  opinion  soon  arose  among  them,  and  the  greater 
part  united  with  the  baptists,  who,  under  the  protection  of 
the  Prince  of  Orange,  there  formed  a  flourishing  community.9 

Wliile  at  Middelburg,  Browne  printed  a  work  of  some 
importance,  and  which  was  very  widely  circulated  in  his 
native  land.  Some  extracts  have  been  already  given.  Other 
portions  of  it  were  especially  directed  against  the  wickedness 
of  certain  preachers,  who  would  not  amend,  "  until  the 
magistrate  reform  and  compel  them."  He  thus  remarks  on 
the  magistrate's  authority :  "  For  the  magistrate,  how  far 
by  their  authority,  or  without  it,  the  church  must  be  builded 


6  Hanbury's  Hist.  Memorials  of  In-  9  Hoornbeck,  J.  Summa  Controvert, 

dependents,  i.  18,  21.  p.  739.  ed.  1676.   Brandt,  Hist,  of  Ref. 

i.  343.  443. 


XXXVI  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

and  reformation  made,  and  whether  any  open  wickedness 
must  be  tolerated  in  the  church  because  of  them,  let  this  be 
our  answer — for  chiefly  on  this  point  they  have  wrought  us 
great  trouble,  and  dismayed  many  weaklings  from  embracing 
the  truth; — we  say,  therefore,  and  often  have  taught,  con- 
cerning our  sovereign,  queen  Elizabeth,  that  neither  the 
pope,  nor  other  popeling,  is  to  have  any  authority  over  her, 
or  over  the  church  of  God,  and  that  the  church  of  Rome  is 
antichrist,  whose  kingdom  ought  utterly  to  be  taken  away. 
Again,  we  say,  that  her  authority  is  civil,  and  that  power 
she  hath  as  highest  under  God  within  her  dominions,  and 
that  over  all  persons  and  causes.  By  that,  she  may  put  to 
death  all  that  deserve  it  by  law,  either  of  the  church  or  com- 
monwealth, and  none  may  resist  her,  or  the  magistrate  under 
her,  by  force  or  wicked  speeches,  when  they  execute  the 
law." 

Not  untruly  does  he  represent  the  puritans,  as  depending 
more  upon  secular  power,  than  upon  the  spiritual  weapons  of 
the  word  of  God.  "  You  will  be  delivered  from  the  yoke 
of  antichrist,  by  bow,  and  by  sword,  and  by  battle,  by  horse 
and  horsemen,  that  is,  by  civil  power  and  pomp  of  magis- 
trates; by  their  proclamations  and  parliaments;  and  the 
kingdom  of  God  must  come  with  observation,  that  men  may 
say,  'Lo!  the  parliament;'  or,  *lo!  the  bishop's  decrees;' 
but  the  kingdom  of  God  should  be  within  you. ...  Ye  set 
aloft  man's  authority  above  God's,  and  the  preacher  must 
hang  on  his  sleeve  for  the  discharge  of  his  calling."  Browne 
regarded  the  church,  and  its  edification,  as  of  more  importance 
than  earthly  kingdoms ;  and  by  these  enlightened  sentiments 
did  much  to  overthrow  the  prevalent  notions  of  magisterial 
duty,  and  to  purify  the  church  from  political  intrusion. 

Yet  Browne  was  not  wholly  free  from  error  on  this  point. 
There  were  some  cases,  in  which  he  considered  secular  inter- 
ference to  be  both  necessary  and  scriptural.     Thus  he  speaks, 


THE    BROWNISTS.  XXXV11 

"  Neither  durst  Moses,  nor  any  of  the  good  kings  of  Judah, 
force  the  people,  by  law  or  by  power,  to  receive  the  church 
government ;  but  after  they  received  it,  if  then  they  fell 
away,  and  sought  not  the  Lord,  they  might  put  them  to 
death."  Again  he  says,  "  If  the  magistrate  be  of  their 
flocks,  why  should  they  tarry  for  them?  Unless  they  will 
have  the  sheep  force  the  shepherd  unto  his  duty.  Indeed  the 
magistrate  may  force  him,  but  it  is  his  shame  to  tarry  till  he  be 
forced"  Yet  elsewhere  he  asserts,  that  to  compel  to  religion, 
to  plant  churches  by  power,  and  to  force  a  submission  to 
ecclesiastical  government,  by  laws  and  penalties,  belong  not 
to  the  magistrate,  neither  yet  to  the  church.  "For  it  is 
the  conscience,  and  not  the  power  of  man,  that  will  drive 
us  to  seek  the  Lord's  kingdom."  x 

While,  then,  he  claimed  for  the  church  a  perfect  independ- 
ence of  the  civil  power,  he  yet  allowed  the  magistrate  a 
coercive  authority  in  cases  of  acknowledged  duty.  In  this 
opinion  his  successors  followed  him,  as  will  presently  appear. 
It  may  be  doubted,  whether  Browne  was  ever  sincere  in  his 
separation  from  the  church,  since,  on  his  return  to  his  native 
country,  he  renounced  what  he  had  taught,  conformed,  and 
enjoyed  for  many  years  a  living  in  Northamptonshire.  His 
moral  obliquities  finally  brought  him  to  a  gaol,  where  he 
died.  Several  of  his  followers,  who  were  very  active  in 
dispersing  his  books,  were  imprisoned,  and  two  of  them  were 
put  to  death."  2 

Between  the  years  1580  and  1593,  the  Brownists  multi- 
plied greatly ;  so  much  so,  that  Sir  Walter  Baleigh  stated  in 

1  The  treatise  is  not  paged.     Its  full  and  of  the  wickednesse  of  those  Preach- 

title  is,  "A  Booke  which  sheweth  the  ers  which  will  not  reforme  themselves, 

life  and  manners  of  all  true  Christians,  and  their  charge,  because  they  will  tar- 

and  howe  unlike  they  are  to  Turkes,  rie  till  the  Magistrate  commaunde  and 

and  Papistes,  and  Heathen  folke,  &c.  compell  them.    By  me  Robert  Browne. 

Also  there  goeth  a   treatise  before   of  Middleburgh.     1582." 

Reformation  without  tarrying  for  anie,  2  Neal  i.  248. 


XXXV111  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

the  House  of  Commons,  perhaps  somewhat  at  random,  that 
there  were  not  less  than  twenty  thousand  of  them.  They 
were  divided  into  several  congregations  in  Norfolk,  Essex, 
and  London.  Mr.  Henry  Barrow  and  Mr.  John  Greenwood, 
were  at  this  time  two  of  their  most  eminent  ministers.  In 
1586,  they  were  summoned  before  archbishop  Whitgift. 
For  a  time  released  on  bond,  they  continued  their  zealous 
labours,  and  were  again  committed  to  the  Fleet  in  1588. 
After  suffering  much  injustice  and  cruelty,  during  five  years 
confinement  in  gaol,  they  were  executed  at  Tyburn,  in  the 
year  1593.  About  six  weeks  after,  Mr.  John  Penry, 
for  the  same  crime,  forfeited  his  life  upon  the  scaffold.3 
The  fidelity  and  loyalty  to  the  queen  of  these  sufferers 
for  conscience*  cause  are  beyond  all  question ;  their  igno- 
minious deaths  were  a  sacrifice  to  the  unholy  zeal  of 
prelates,  whom  worldly  policy  and  power  had  blinded  to 
the  true  nature  of  the  kingdom  of  Christ.  The  bishops 
cemented  the  stones  of  their  building  with  the  blood  of  better 
men. 

Their  fellow-sufferers  were  for  a  long  time  vexed,  and 
grievously  afflicted,  by  every  species  of  persecution.  After 
enduring  long  imprisonments,  with  great  fortitude,  they  were 
banished  to  other  lands,  and  under  the  pastoral  care  of  Mr. 
Francis  Johnson  and  Mr.  Henry  Ainsworth,  a  church  of 
these  exiles  was  formed,  and  continued  to  exist  for  many 
years,  at  Amsterdam,  in  Holland.  They  were  far  in  advance 
of  their  contemporaries,  and  were  called  to  endure  obloquy, 
hatred,  and  death — the  common  lot  of  those  benefactors 
of  the  human  race,  who  have  been  the  first  to  utter  truths 
of  eternal  value.  It  would  seem,  as  if  by  some  immutable 
law  in  the  moral  government  of  the  universe,  such  men 
must  not  only  lay  the  basis  of  a  new  era  of  human  progress, 

5  Noal,  i.347.     Ilanbury,  i.  34. 


THE    BROWNISTS.  XXXIX 

but  expiate  with  their  blood  the  crimes  and  misdeeds  of  the 
evil  principles  they  destroy. 

The  Brownists,  or  Barrowists,  as  they  were  likewise  called, 
regarded  the  church  of  England  in  the  same  light  as  the 
puritans,  from  whom  they  sprung.  Separation  was  the  legi- 
timate conclusion  of  their  teaching :  but  from  it  they  timidly 
shrunk.  Both  puritan  and  Brownist  held,  that  the  church  of 
England  had  been  constituted,  for  the  most  part,  of  papists, 
who  had  revolted  from  their  profession  in  king  Edward's  days, 
and  after  another  change,  shed  much  blood  of  many  Christian 
martyrs  in  queen  Mary's.  "  This  people,  yet  standing  in  this 
fearful  sinful  estate,  in  idolatry,  blindness,  superstition,  and 
all  manner  of  wickedness,  without  any  professed  repentance, 
were,  by  force  and  authority  of  law  only,  compelled  and 
together  received  into  the  bosom  and  body  of  the  church." 
None  were  excluded,  were  they  never  so  profane ;  atheists, 
adulterers,  thieves,  &c.,  were  of  one  fellowship,  one  body, 
one  church.  The  same  popish  prelacy  and  clergy  were  set 
over  them,  persecuting  "to  death  all  that  dare  but  once 
mutter  against  their  unlawful  proceedings."  Parsons,  priests, 
vicars,  curates,  were  sworn  to  canonical  obedience,  to  read 
the  service  book  and  bishops'  decrees.  In  a  word,  the  whole 
clergy  were  in  servitude  to  the  lordly  prelates.  Now  the 
statute-book  of  the  kingdom  of  God  commanded  none,  and 
condemned  much,  of  these  things.  But  the  puritan  ministers, 
the  Brownists  went  on  to  say,  were  weary  with  the  troubles 
that  came  upon  them.  They  gave  place  to  prelatic  tyranny, 
and  were  content  to  conform.  "  Keeping  now  silence,  yea, 
going  back,  bearing  and  bolstering  the  things  which  here- 
tofore by  word  and  writing  they  stood  against,  so  long  as 
there  was  any  hope  that  the  queen  and  council  would  have 
hearkened  unto  them,  and  put  these  adversary  prelates  out 
of  the  church."  But  it  was  incumbent  upon  the  true  child 
of  God  to  separate  from  a  church  set  up  after  the  pattern 


xl  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

and  mould  of  the  apostasy  of  Rome,  and  his  duty,  without 
longer  delay,  to  walk  in  all  the  ordinances  and  command- 
ments of  the  Lord.4 

As  true  Christian  men,  the  Brownists  therefore  separated 
from  communion  with  the  church  of  England,  pushing  yet 
further  their  views  of  the  church  of  Christ.  Their  ideas  of 
the  spiritual  and  eclectic  character  of  the  kingdom  of  God, 
placed  them  in  opposition  to  both  episcopalians  and  puritans. 
"  The  true  planted  and  rightly  established  church  of  Christ, 
is  a  company  of  faithful  people,  separated  from  the  unbe- 
lievers and  heathens  of  the  land :  gathered  in  the  name  of 
Christ,  whom  they  truly  worship,  and  readily  obey ; — joined 
together  as  members  of  one  body ;  ordered  and  governed  by 
such  officers  and  laws,  as  Christ  in  his  last  will  and  testa- 
ment, hath  thereunto  ordained."  On  the  contrary,  the  parish 
assemblies  transgressed  this  rule  in  every  point,  and  were 
governed  by  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  such  officers  as  the 
pope  left,  "  standing  in  bondage  to  the  Romish  courts  and 
canons,  having  no  power  to  execute  the  Lord's  judgments,  or 
to  redress  the  least  sin  or  trangression  amongst  themselves."  5 
Of  this  separated  community,  Barrow  further  writes,  "  There 
ma\  be  none  admitted  into  the  church  of  Christ,  but  such  as 
enter  by  a  public  profession  of  true  faith ;  none  remain  there, 
but  such  as  bring  forth  the  fruits  of  faith."6  It  was  one 
amongst  the  many  forged  excuses  of  the  prelates,  "that 
where  a  Christian  prince  is,  which  maintaineth  the  gospel, 
and  the  whole  land,  not  resisting  this  commandment,  rever- 
enceth  the  word  and  sacraments,  there  the  whole  multitude 
of  such  a  land,  or  state,  are  without  doubt  to  be  esteemed 


*  Preface    to    Confession    of    Faith  5  Conferences  of  Barrowe  and  Green- 
printed  in  15.06.     H.  Ainsworth's  De-  wood,  p.  67.  edit.  1590. 
fence  of  Brownists,  pp.  8 — 12.  edition  9  A    Brief  Discovery   of  the   False 
1604.  Church,  p.  8.  edit.  1590. 


THE    BROWNISTS.  xli 

and  judged  a  true  church."7  This,  in  Barrowe's  estimation, 
was  a  sacrilegious  profanation  of  the  things  of  God— a 
poisoning  of  all  Christian  communion  and  fellowship. 

Did  the  Brownists  then  deny  the  power  of  the  magistrate  ? 
Were  they  one  in  opinion  with  the  anabaptists  ?  Nay. 
"  The  prince/'  says  Barrowe,  (<  is  to  govern,  oversee,  and 
provide  the  commonwealth,  administering  and  dispensing, 
gathering  and  dispersing,  the  creatures  and  the  wealth  thereof, 
as  a  father  and  a  steward :  yet  still  with  this  interim,  as  the 
steward  and  servant  of  God,  according  to  their  Master's  will, 
as  they  that  shall  account."  "Life  and  goods  were  at  his 
command,  only  in  divine  things  must  he  not  command  nor  be 
obeyed ;  even  the  command  to  fast  in  Lent  was  unjust,  con- 
trary to  the  bountiful  liberality  of  God,  and  to  his  honour 
and  praise.  It  were,  moreover,  contrary  to  the  liberty  and 
freedom  God  hath  given  us  in  Christ.  .  .  .  Policy  must  take, 
and  not  give,  laws  to  religion/'8 

The  advance  was  great  on  the  politico-religious  theories 
which  had  gone  before.  One  principle,  far-reaching  in  its 
results,  and  lying  at  the  foundation  of  every  question 
concerning  the  relations  of  the  church  to  the  state,  was 
clearly  enunciated  and  maintained — that  the  church,  the 
true  community  of  believers,  is  solely  dependent  on 
the  laws  of  the  one  Lawgiver,  Christ  Jesus.  Complete 
in  itself,  the  church  is  able  to  execute  all  the  func- 
tions for  which  it  is  formed.  But  here  the  Brownists 
stopped.  These  despised  but  honoured  men,  were  not 
able  to  advance  the  final  step,  and  demand  that  perfect  free- 
dom of  conscience,  which  is  the  corollary  to  the  proposition 
they  demonstrated.  Thus  Mr.  Greenwood,  in  the  conference 
with  Cooper,  says,  "  The  magistrate  ought  to  compel  the 
infidels  to  hear  the  doctrine  of  the  church,  and  also  with  the 

7  Ibid.  p.  13.  8  Barrowe's  Brief  Discovery,  &c.  pp.  91,  92. 

d 


xlii  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

approbation  of  the  church,  to  send  forth  meet  men,  with  gifts 
and  graces,  to  instruct  the  infidels."  9  Mr.  Barrowe  gives  the 
magistrate  a  yet  greater  power :  "  The  prince  hath  the  book 
of  God  committed  unto  him,  with  charge  to  see  it  duly  exe- 
cuted, by  every  one  in  his  calling.  .  .  .  That  the  prince  also 
is  charged,  and  of  duty  ought,  to  see  the  ministers  of  the 
church  do  their  duty,  and  teach  the  law  of  God  diligently 
and  sincerely,  we  read,  Deut.  xvii.  1  Chron.  xxviii.  2  Chron. 
xxix.  and  xxx.  and  xxxv.  This  did  Jehoshaphat,  and  no 
other  thing."  r  But  he  marks  the  limit  of  the  prince's  power, 
and  the  distinction  between  his  sentiments  and  those  of  his 
opponents,  in  the  following  manner :  "  It  will  not  suffice  to 
confess,  that  God  hath  made  the  civil  magistrate  the  keeper 
of  the  book  of  the  law,  to  see  both  the  tables  thereof  observed 
by  all  persons,  both  in  the  church  and  commonwealth ;  and 
so  hath  power  over  both  church  and  commonwealth  :  but 
they  must  have  this  indefinite  proposition  granted  them, 
'  That  a  prince  hath  power  to  make  laws  for  the  church.' .... 
A  godly  prince  is  bound  to  God's  law;  made  the  keeper 
thereof,  not  the  controller  ;  the  servant,  not  the  Lord.  God 
hath  in  that  book  made  most  perfect  and  necessary  laws,  both 
for  church  and  commonwealth  ;  he  requireth  of  the  king  and 
magistrate  to  see  these  laws  executed,  and  not  to  make  new." 
By  new  laws  is  to  be  understood  "traditions,  ordinances, 
customs,  &c,  which  are  not  prescribed  in  Christ's  testament."2 
The  following  passage,  penned  by  Mr.  Francis  Johnson, 
will  show  how  the  Brownists  attempted  to  reconcile  these 
views  with  the  contradictory  sentiment,  that  God  only  can 
persuade  the  conscience : — "  We  condemn  not,"  he  says, 
"reformation  commanded  and  compelled  by  the  magistrate, 
but  do  unfeignedly  desire  that  God  would  put  into  the  heart 


9  Conferences,  p.  59.  2   Ibid.  pp.  218,  219. 

1  Brief  Discovery,  &c.  pp.  253,  257. 


THE    BROWNISTS.  xliii 

of  her  majesty,  and  all  other  princes  within  their  dominions, 
to  command  and  compel  a  reformation,  according  to  the 
word  of  the  Lord ;    as  it  is  expressly  noted  that  Hezekiah, 

and  other  good  kings  of  Judah  did Where,  note  withal, 

that  it  is  the  work  of  God  only,  to  add  to  his  church  such  as 
he  will  save.  And,  therefore,  that  it  is  not  in  the  power  of 
princes,  or  any  man  whatsoever,  to  persuade  the  conscience, 
and  make  members  of  the  church,  but  this  must  be  left  to 
God  alone,  who  only  can  do  it.  Acts  ii.  47.  Princes  may 
and  ought,  within  their  dominions,  to  abolish  all  false  wor- 
ship, and  all  false  ministries  whatsoever ;  and  to  establish  the 
true  worship  and  ministry  appointed  by  God  in  his  word ; 
commanding  and  compelling  their  subjects  to  come  unto,  and 
practice  no  other  but  this.  Yet  must  they  leave  it  unto  God 
to  persuade  the  conscience,  and  to  add  to  his  church  from 
time  to  time  such  as  shall  be  saved."  3 

It  is  obvious,  that  this  is  persecution,  under  the  garb  of 
honouring  and  doing  service  to  God;  and  that  while  the 
Brownists  held  truly,  that  the  church  ought  to  be  free  from 
secular  legislation,  and  that  the  conscience  was  God's  seat, 
they  most  inconsistently  delivered  to  the  magistrate  a  rule  of 
action,  which  must  interfere  with  the  one,  and  trample  upon 
the  convictions  of  the  other. 

3  An  Answer  to  Maister  H.  Jacob,  &c.  pp.  198,  199  ed.  1600. 


d  2 


xliv 


SECTION  IV. 

THE   BAPTISTS. 

It  has  been  already  seen,  that  the  claim,  for  the  church  and 
for  the  conscience,  of  freedom  from  all  human  control,  was  a 
distinguishing  and  characteristic  trait  of  the  baptists  in  former 
reigns.  The  divine  saying,  "  Faith  is  the  gift  of  God," 
moved,  animated,  strengthened  them.  Its  practical  assertion 
brought  them  into  collision  with  every  form  of  human  inven- 
tion in  the  worship  of  God.  Faith,  God's  gift,  must  not  be 
subjected  to  man's  device,  nor  enchained  by  the  legislative 
enactments  of  parliaments  or  kings.  To  worship  God  aright, 
the  highest  function  of  humanity,  the  spirit  must  be  free; 
true  worship  can  come  only  from  a  willing  heart.  For  this 
the  baptists  bore  cheerfully,  cruel  mockings,  and  scourging s ; 
yea,  moreover  bonds  and  imprisonments,  and  death.  The 
reign  of  Elizabeth  saw  no  change  in  their  faith,  no  ameliora- 
tion of  their  sorrows.  No  brighter  day  dawned  for  them  :  the 
"  bright  Occidental  Star,"  4  whose  rising  exiles  and  Marian 
death-expecting  prisoners  hailed,  was  to  them  a  scorching, 
meteoric  flame. 

In  the  view  of  the  great  polemic  of  that  age,  Richard 
Hooker,  it  was  "  a  loose  and  licentious  opinion,  which  the 
anabaptists"  had  embraced.  They  held  that  "a  Christian 
man's  liberty  is  lost,  and  the  soul  which  Christ  hath  redeemed 
unto  himself,  injuriously  drawn  into  servitude  under  the  yoke 
of  human  power,  if  any  law  be  now  imposed  besides  the  gos- 
pel of  Christ,  in  obedience  wherennto  the  Spirit  of  God,  and 

*  Translators'  Dedication  of  the  Authorized  Version  of  the  Bible. 


THE   BAPTISTS.  xlv 

not  the  constraint  of  men,  is  to  lead  us  ;  according  to  that  of 
the  blessed  apostle,  Such  as  are  led  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  they 
are  the  sons  of  God,  and  not  such  as  live  in  thraldom  to  men. 
Their  judgment  is,  therefore,  that  the  church  of  Christ  should 
admit  of  no  lawmakers  but  the  evangelists,  no  courts  but 
presbyteries,  no  punishments  but  ecclesiastical  censures."5 
His  witness  is  true.  Grand  as  were  the  conceptions  of  the 
"judicious  Hooker,"  this  idea  of  the  Christian  man's  liberty 
exceeded  them.  The  "door  was  too  low,  or  he  too  stout  to 
enter;"  for  not  unfrequently,  in  the  divine  purposes  of  the 
Father,  has  it  come  to  pass,  "  that  poor  shepherds  which  are 
accustomed  to  stables,  have  been  found  meet  to  have  Christ 
revealed  unto  them."  The  wise  and  the  prudent  oftener  find 
Herod's  hall  a  "more  meet  place,"  than  "Christ's  stable."6 
He  has,  nevertheless,  echoed,  in  his  own  beautiful  way,  the 
language  of  some  "poor  shepherd,"  who  in  his  lowliness 
found  and  prized  the  truth,  to  whom  the  babe  of  Bethlehem 
was  more  attractive  than  the  pomp  and  glitter  of  courts. 

Early  in  the  reign  of  Elizabeth,  did  the  baptists  utter  their 
protest,  against  the  abhorrent  spirit  of  persecution  displayed 
by  the  reformers.  Their  words  are  embalmed  for  us  in  the 
pages  of  a  bitter  foe.  The  ireful  spirit  of  the  Scotch 
reformer  had  been  chafed  by  their  opinions  on  predestina- 
tion ;  so  that  in  the  year  1560,  he  poured  forth  upon 
them  an  objurgatory  stream  of  indignant  reproach.  It 
was,  "An  Answer  to  a  great  number  of  blasphemous 
cavillations  written  by  an  Anabaptist,  and  Adversarie 
to  God's  eternal  Predestination ;  and  confuted  by  John 
Knox."7  With  much  fairness  he  has  given,  in  separate 
paragraphs,  the  whole  of  the  obnoxious  production,  appending 

5  Hooker,  Eccles.  Pol.  book  viii.  sect.  6  So  the  baptist  to  John  Knox,  in  a 

9.    vol.     iii.    328.       Hanbury's    edit.  work  to  be  presently  cited. 

Keble  considers  this  to  be  a  part  of  a  7  The  edition  before  us  is  the  third, 

Sermon  on  Civil  Obedience.  of  1591. 


xlvi  HISTORICAL   INTRODUCTION. 

to  each  its  confutation.  The  immediate  subject  of  the  con- 
troversy must  be  passed  over,  not  without  some  wonder  at 
the  large  vocabulary  of  invective  employed  by  the  vigorous 
reformer.  The  passages  following  attract  our  attention ;  and, 
because  the  rulers  and  polemics  of  that  day,  proscribed,  de- 
molished, and  misrepresented  most  diligently,  the  writings 
and  opinions  of  this  abhorred  sect,  so  as  to  leave  but  rare 
specimens  of  their  productions,  it  must  be  allowed  the  baptist 
on  this  occasion  to  speak  for  himself,  although  at  some 
length ;  it  is  a  voice  from  the  deep  darkness  of  oblivion. 
He  addresses  such  men  as  Calvin  and  Beza,  and  Knox,  the 
chiefest  in  this  land  of  Calvin's  disciples: — 

"  Your  chief  Apollos  be  persecutors,  on  whom  the  blood  of 
Servetus  crieth  a  vengeance,  so  doth  the  blood  of  others  more 
whom  I  could  name.  But  forasmuch  as  God  hath  partly 
already  revenged  their  blood,  and  served  some  of  their  perse- 
cutors with  the  same  measure  wherewith  they  measured  to 
others,  I  will  make  no  mention  of  them  at  this  time.  And  to 
declare  their  wickedness  not  to  have  proceeded  of  ignorance 
and  human  infirmity,  but  of  indured  malice,  they  have  for  a 
perpetual  memory  of  their  cruelty,  set  forth  books,  affirming 
it  to  be  lawful  to  persecute  and  put  to  death  such  as  dissent 
from  others  in  controversies  of  religion,  whom  they  call  blas- 
phemers of  God.  Notwithstanding,  afore  they  came  to 
authority,  they  were  of  another  judgment,  and  did  both  say 
and  write,  that  no  man  ought  to  be  persecuted  for  his  con- 
science' sake  ;  but  now  they  are  not  only  become  persecutors, 
but  also  they  have  given,  as  far  as  lieth  in  them,  the  sword 
into  the  hand  of  bloody  tyrants.  Be  these,  I  pray  you,  the 
sheep  whom  Christ  sent  forth  in  the  midst  of  wolves?  Can 
the  sheep  persecute  the  wolf?  Doth  Abel  kill  Cain?  Doth 
David,  though  he  might,  kill  Saul  ?  Shortly,  doth  he  which 
is  born  of  the  Spirit  kill  him  which  is  born  after  the  flesh  ? 

"  Mark,  how  ye  be  fallen  into  most  abominable  tyranny. 


THE    BAPTISTS.  xlvii 

and  yet  ye  see  it  not.  Thus  I  am  constrained  of  conscience 
to  write.  That  if  it  shall  please  God  to  awake  you  out  of 
your  dream,  that  ye  may  perceive  how  one  error  hath  drowned 
you  in  more  error,  and  hath  brought  you  to  a  sleeping  secu- 
rity, that  when  ye  walk,  even  after  the  lusts,  thirsting  after 
blood,  and  persecuting  poor  men  for  their  conscience'  sake,  ye 
be  blinded,  and  see  not  yourselves;  but  say,  tush!  we  be 
predestinate,  whatsoever  we  do  we  are  certain  we  cannot  fall 
out  of  God's  favour.  Awake,  therefore,  and  look  what 
danger  ye  be  in,  and  how  by  your  poisoned  doctrine  ye  infect 
the  people  of  God,  and  draw  them  to  a  secure,  idle,  and 
careless  life." 

And  what  saith  Knox  to  this :  "  You  dissembling  hypocrites 
cannot  abide  that  the  sword  of  God's  vengeance  shall  strike 
the  murderer,  the  blasphemer,  and  such  others  as  God  com- 
mandeth  by  his  word  to  die  ;  not  so,  by  your  judgments ;  he 
must  live,  and  may  repent."  The  reformer  then  infers  that 
Joan  Boucher  was  meant,  as  one  of  those  whose  blood  cried 
for  vengeance;  and  truly,  the  reformers'  consciences  might 
well  be  stricken  with  fear,  when  that  dark  deed  rose  to 
their  remembrance.  Our  Knox  seems  somewhat  aghast  as  he 
appeals  to  "  all  that  fear  God,"  against  the  judgment  of  the 
baptist  upon  those  most  valiant  soldiers,  Cranmer,  Latimer, 
Ridley,  Rogers,  Bradford,  and  others,  most  of  whom  took  part 
in  the  condemnation  of  that  Christian  woman.  Yet,  "  upon 
whom— that  is  Cranmer  and  his  fellow-inquisitors — O  blas- 
phemous mouth,  thou  say  est,  God  hath  taken  vengeance, 
which  is  an  horrible  blasphemy  in  the  ears  of  all  the  godly  ! " 

But  has  the  reformer  no  good  strong  arguments  to  with- 
stand the  claims  of  conscience  ?  Cannot  the  volume  of  holy 
truth  supply  some  inexpugnable  reasons  for  withholding  its 
liberty  ?  With  no  such  ineffectual  weapons  will  he  meet  his 
man.  Argument  with  a  blasphemer  ?  No.  "  I  will  not  now 
so  much  labour  to  confute  by  my  pen,  as  [because]  that  my 


xlviii  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

full  purpose  is  to  lay  the  same  to  thy  charge,  if  I  shall  appre- 
hend thee  in  any  commonwealth  where  justice  against  blas- 
phemers may  be  ministered,  as  God's  word  requireth.  And 
hereof  I  give  thee  warning,  lest  that  after  thou  shalt  com- 
plain that  under  the  cloak  of  friendship  I  have  deceived  thee. 
Thy  manifest  defection  from  God,  and  this  thy  open  blas- 
phemy ,  .  .  .  have  so  broken  and  dissolved  all  familiarity 
which  hath  been  betwixt  us,  that  although  thou  wert  my 
natural  brother,  I  durst  not  conceal  thine  iniquity  in  this 
case."  8  Let  the  baptist  and  quondam  friend  of  John  Knox 
beware  !  He  may  find  a  Geneva  in  Scotland,  or  perhaps  in 
England,  if  he  wait  awhile. 

But  the  reformer  after  all  feels  constrained  to  attempt  some 
sort  of  reply.  He  endeavours  first  to  prejudice  his  opponent's 
cause,  by  insinuating  that  he  sympathized  in  the  anti-trini- 
tarian  views  of  Servetus,  although  Knox  knew  to  the 
contrary,  since  they  were  agreed  on  the  unlawfulness  of 
baptizing  children,  on  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  and  the 
administration  of  the  Lord's  Supper.  He  then  confesses 
that  books  had  been  written  by  both  parties,  "that  lawful 
it  is  not,  to  the  civil  magistrate,  to  use  the  sword  against 
heretics;"  but  which  that  godly  learned  man,  Theodore 
Beza,  had  answered.9  He  avers  that  Servetus  and  Joan  of 
Kent  were  justly  burnt,  since  God  allowed  the  idolaters 
of  the   golden   calf  to   be   slain  by   the   sons   of  Levi,   at 


8  An  Answer,  &c.  pp.  189 — 204.  secution  is  the  means  of  restoring  the 

9  Beza  wrote  his  Treatise,  De  Haere-  dominion  over  conscience  to  God,  "see- 

ticis  a  Civili  Magistratu  puniendis,  in  ing  it  is  only  an  attempt  to  execute  the 

1553,  in  defence  of  the  execution  of  divine  commands  by  divine  methods !  " 

Servetus,  and  to  establish   the  right  of  Brandt,  Hist,  of  Ref.  ii.  8.     Referring 

the  civil  power  to  punish  heresy.     In  to  Servetus,  Beza  says,  "Quum  igitur  in 

the  year   1601,  it  was  translated  into  carcerem   conjectus   esset,   ecce  statim 

Dutch,  for  the  purpose  of  exciting  the  f/uidamSata)iceemissariic[aTnitarec(£i>e- 

magistrates   of  Friesland  to   persecute  runt  iniquissimum  esse." — Tract.  Theol. 

the  baptists.     Its  editors  say,  that  per-  Theodori  Bezse,  vol.  i.  p.  83,  ed.  1582. 


THE   BAPTISTS.  xllX 

Moses'  command.  If,  however,  the  baptist  should  infer, 
which  he  doubtless  did,  that  since  Abel,  Isaac,  and  David, 
slew  not  Cain,  nor  Ishmael,  nor  Saul,  it  is  not  lawful  "for 
any  of  God's  elect  to  kill  any  man  for  his  conscience'  sake  ;  " 
then  "I  answer,"  says  Knox,  "that  if  under  the  name  of 
conscience,  ye  include  whatsoever  seemeth  good  in  your  own 
eyes,  then  ye  affirm  a  great  absurdity,"  which  very  thing  the 
baptist  did  not  affirm.  But,  "  you  say,  that  external  crimes 
have  no  affinity  with  matters  of  religion,  for  the  conscience  of 
every  man  is  not  alike  persuaded  in  the  service  and  honouring 
of  God,  neither  yet  in  such  controversies  as  God's  word  hath 
not  plainly  decided.  But,  I  ask,  if  that  be  a  just  excuse  why 
pernicious  errors  shall  be  obstinately  defended,  either  yet 
that  God's  established  religion  shall  be  contemptuously 
despised  ?  " 1 

So  then,  under  the  plea  of  some  possibility  of  pernicious 
error,  conscience  must  be  trampled  under  foot ;  and  its 
utterances,  should  they  be  found,  or  imagined,  to  be  dissent- 
ing from  an  established  religion,  assumed  to  be  of  God, 
treated  as  blasphemy,  and  as  the  vilest  of  crimes,  Infinitely 
more  pernicious  have  been  the  domination  over  conscience, 
and  the  repression  of  its  liberty,  enforced  by  men  claiming 
the  authority  of  the  Highest  for  their  deeds  of  blood,  than 
the  multitude  of  errors  they  have  sought  to  destroy.  This 
hateful  tyranny,  disguised  in  pretensions  to  sanctity  and 
truth,  hath  shed  the  blood  of  myriads  of  earth's  noblest 
men,  and  of  heaven's  most  worthy  inhabitants.  One 
more  manifestation  of  thy  wolfish  spirit,  O  Knox!  thy 
fearful  imprecations,  upon  these  poor  peeled  and  scattered 
sheep,  and  we  leave  thee.  "  Your  privy  assemblies,  and  all 
those  that  in  despite  of  Christ's  blessed  ordinance  do  frequent 
the   same,    are   accursed   of  God!"2      The  maledictions   of 

1  An  Answer,  &c.  pp.  209—11.  2  Ibjd# 


1  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

persecutors  are  a  rich  inheritance  to  the  persecuted  followers 
of  the  Lamb. 

The  "  privy  assemblies "  of  the  baptists,  and  the  attendance 
at  them,  must  have  been  somewhat  numerous  in  the  early 
years  of  Elizabeth's  reign.  "  We  found/'  says  Jewel,  writing 
to  Martyr,  "a  large  and  inauspicious  crop  of  Arians,  ana- 
baptists, and  other  pests,  which  I  know  not  how,  but  as 
mushrooms  spring  up  in  the  night  and  in  darkness,  so  these 
sprung  up  in  that  darkness  and  unhappy  night  of  the  Marian 
times.'' 3  The  measures  adopted  to  root  out  this  pestiferous 
"  crop,"  accorded  with  the  nature  of  a  national  church.  They 
were  denounced  from  the  pulpit,  the  press  sent  forth  its  black 
load  of  falsehood  and  calumny,  but  was  closed  to  every  reply, 
and  public  law  laid  its  ban  upon  them.  St.  Paul's  Cross,  where 
Latimer  and  Ridley,  Bourn  and  Bonner,  had  each  in  turn, 
during  the  rapidly  shifting  scenes  of  that  period,  proclaimed 
the  ruler's  and  the  nation's  faith,  protestant  or  papal  as  it 
might  be,  became  a  place  of  attack  upon  them.  In  the  begin- 
ning of  the  reign,  John  Veron  had  been  chosen  public  divinity 
lecturer  at  St.  Paul's.  On  that  renowned  spot,  this  bold  and 
popular  preacher  inveighed  against  the  baptists,  "  who  molest 
and  trouble  the  godly  quietness  and  peace  of  the  church."  4 
Their  detestable  heresies,  as  well  as  those  of  papists,  were 
his  not  unfrequent  theme.  Free-will  and  predestination  were 
the  favourite  topics  handled  in  these  discourses,  which  he  after- 
wards committed  to  the  press,  to  stay  the  "  swynyshe  gruntinge 
— the  vain  and  blasphemous  objections  that  the  Epicures  and 
anabaptists  of  our  time  can  make."      But  while  maintaining 

3  Zurich.  Lett.  i.  92.  language.     By  Ridley  he  was  collated 

4  An  Apology  and  Defence  of  the  to  the  living  of  St.  Alphage  in  London, 
doctrine  of  Predestination,  by  John  in  1552,  and  immediately  on  Elizabeth's 
Veron,  fol.  40,  printed  about  1.5(50.  accession,  obtained  a  prebend  in  St. 
Veron  was  a  native  of  Sens,  in  France,  Paul's.  To  this  was  shortly  added  the 
but  came  to  England,  where  he  taught  readership  of  theology.  Tanner,  Bib, 
successfully  in  many  places  the   Latin  Scrip,  p.  732,  ed.  1745!. 


THE    BAPTISTS.  li 

the  scriptural  truth,  "that  God  hath  from  the  beginning 
ordained  and  appointed  some  to  be  fellow-heirs  with  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ/'  he  recoiled  not  from  the  fearful  statement 
"  that  some  again  are  appointed  (from  the  beginning)  to  be 
everlastingly  damned." 5  Strange  inconsistency,  that  men 
holding  such  opinions  should  endeavour  to  coerce  the  con- 
sciences of  others.  Is  it  by  fiery  trials,  or  by  lingering 
imprisonments,  that  the  elect  of  God  are  to  be  brought  to 
faith?  Will  the  sight  of  the  stake,  the  clanking  of  chains, 
or  the  severities  of  unrequited  labour,  change  the  immutable 
decrees  of  heaven  ?  Did  they  doubt  the  execution  of  the 
doom,  pronounced  from  eternity,  which  they  said  was  the 
portion  of  these  "  accursed  "  heretics,  that  they  hastened  its 
approach  by  putting  them  to  death  ?  Why  not  bide  the  time 
of  the  full  developement  of  the  unchanging  purposes  of  God, 
rather  than  strive,  by  such  unhallowed  means,  to  accomplish 
what,  for  aught  they  knew,  was  predetermined  should  not  be 
done,  and  by  their  cruelty  rendered  impossible,  the  conver- 
sion of  these  erring  souls  ?  Were  they  the  executioners  of 
eternal  doom,  as  well  as  the  heralds  of  grace  ? 

The  archbishops  and  bishops  dealt  with  the  consciences  of 
men,  as  if  they  thought  them  convertible  by  other  means  than 
God's  word,  when,  in  1559,  they  directed,  "that  incorrigible 
Arians,  Pelagians,  or  free-will  men,  be  sent  into  some  one 
castle  in  North  Wales,  or  Wallingford,  and  there  to  live  of 
their  own  labour  and  exercise,  and  none  other  be  suffered  to 
resort  unto  them  but  their  keepers,  until  they  be  found  to 
repent  their  errors."6  This  was  not  intended  to  be  an  unmean- 
ing threat.  Parkhurst,  the  bishop  of  Norwich,  who  had  most 
reluctantly  yielded  to  the  imposition  of  the  habits,  was 
warmly  upbraided  with  remissness  and  Want  of  activity  in 


5  A  Fruteful  Treatise  of  Predestina-       Imprinted  by  John   Tisdale,  no  *late. 
tion.      Dedicated  to  queen   Elizabeth.  6  Doc.  Annals,  i.  205. 


Hi  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

removing  the  baptists  from  his  diocese,  although  he  laboured 
by  preaching  to  destroy  the  impression  their  doctrines  had 
made.7  Many  foreigners,  especially  Dutch,  had  taken  refuge 
in  that  part  of  the  country,  from  the  fanatical  and  bloody 
decrees  of  Philip  of  Spain.  Not  a  few  of  them  were  bap- 
tists, who  with  some  success  propagated  their  opinions  among 
the  native  population.  Under  the  "  halcyon  "  reign  of  Eliza- 
beth, they  expected  to  find  in  England  a  peaceful  shelter,  from 
the  frightful  storm  of  persecution,  that  elsewhere  beat  upon 
them.  There  was  none.  "The  queen,  by  a  proclamation, 
ordered  these  heretics,  both  aliens  and  natural-born  English, 
to  depart  the  kingdom  within  one-and-twenty  days."  8  Impri- 
sonment and  forfeiture  of  all  their  property,  were  the  penalties 
of  a  longer  sojourn.  Many,  however,  evaded  the  command, 
screening  themselves  in  various  ways  from  the  severities 
inflicted  by  the  royal  injunctions.  The  good  bishop  Jewel 
hoped,  indeed,  that  it  was  the  fact  that  they  had  retreated 
before  "the  light  of  purer  doctrine,"  for,  he  says,  they  were 
"nowhere  to  be  found;  or  at  least,  if  any  where,  they  are 
now  no  longer  troublesome  to  our  churches."9  But  it  was  not 
the  "light  of  purer  doctrine,"  that  had  driven  them  into 
the  gloom  of  the  forest  glade  to  worship  their  God,  "like 
owls  at  the  sight  of  the  sun ;"  it  was  regal  usurped  might, 
and  episcopal  tyranny. 

Success  still  lingered  behind  the  efforts  of  the  queen  and 
her  obsequious  bishops,  when,  in  1567,  articles  of  inquiry 
were  issued  to  the  metropolitan,  having  especial  respect  to  the 
state  of  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  where  Parkhurst,  its  bishop, 
still  "  winked  at  schismatics  and  anabaptists."  In  addition  to 
the  usual  inquiries  to  be  made  concerning  the  mode  of  per- 
forming divine  service,  the  state  of  the  grammar  schools,  and 


7  Strype's  Parker,  I.  i.  214.  °  To  Martyr,  Nov.  6.   1660.     Zur. 

B  Collier,  vi.  33-2.  Lett.  i.  92. 


THE    BAPTISTS.  liii 

the  due  performance  of  their  respective  ministries,  by  the 
various  functionaries  of  the  church,  particular  inquisition  was 
ordered,  as  to  whether  any  taught  or  said,  that  children  being 
infants  ought  not  to  be  baptized,  that  post-baptismal  sins  were 
not  remissible  by  penance,  that  it  was  not  lawful  to  swear, 
that  civil  magistrates  may  not  punish  certain  crimes  with 
death,  or  that  it  was  lawful  for  any  man,  without  the  appoint- 
ment and  calling  of  the  magistrate,  to  take  upon  him  any 
ministry  in  Christ's  church.1  These,  in  the  royal  estimation, 
were  most  dangerous  opinions,  demanding  every  exertion  to 
repress  them. 

For  the  third  time,  a  special  visitation  was  ordered  in  the 
following  year,  in  every  parish  throughout  the  realm,  wherever 
there  was  any  confluence  of  strangers,  to  discover  the  teachers 
of  such  evil  doctrines.  Great  numbers  of  Dutch  peopl?, 
under  which  designation  were  included  both  Germans  and 
Flemings,  were  daily  repairing  to  this  country  for  a  refuge 
from  the  sanguinary  cruelties  of  the  duke  of  Alva.  Among 
them,  it  was  feared  were  some  infested  with  poisonous  errors, 
"  contrary  to  the  faith  of  Christ's  church,  as  anabaptists,  and 
such  other  sectaries."  Their  mode  of  life,  the  length  of 
their  residence  in  the  realm,  the  cause  of  their  resort  hither, 
and  to  what  churches  they  went  for  worship,  were  to  be  care- 
fully noted  and  registered.  The  suspected,  and  the  uncon- 
formable to  the  established  order,  were  to  be  speedily  brought 
to  trial,  and  if  not  reconciled  by  "charitable  teaching,"  to 
depart  in  twenty  days  on  pain  of  severe  punishment.  "  This 
provision,"  says  Collier,  "  was  no  more  than  necessary ;  for 
the  Dutch  anabaptists  held  private  conventicles  in  London, 
and  perverted  a  great  many." 2 

It  is  most  probable,  that  a  congregation  discovered  in  the 
isle  of  Ely,  in  the  year    1573,  consisted   of  some  of  these 

1  Doc.  Annals,  i.  306.  2  Collier,  vi.  462.     Doc.  Annals,  i.  309. 


liv  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

converts.  They  refused  oaths,  condemned  capital  punish- 
ments, exercised  a  Christian  liberty  in  the  preaching  and 
exposition  of  scripture,  and  some  were  supposed  to  maintain 
an  inequality  of  persons  in  the  godhead ;  this  latter  is  very 
doubtful.  Their  meetings  were  private ;  closed  to  all  but  such 
as  agreed  with  them  in  sentiment.3  It  gives  us  but  little  con- 
cern that  many  charges  of  immorality  are  made  against  them. 
It  has  ever  been  the  custom  of  the  enemies  of  true  godliness 
thus  to  vilify  its  professors.  Were  these  charges  admissible, 
we  should  be  compelled  to  believe  that  an  earnest  heed  to  the 
word  of  God,  which  it  was  made  a  crime  in  these  people  to 
have  shown,  was  productive  of  results  the  opposite  to  those 
which  experience  daily  justifies.  Light  and  darkness  cannot 
long  intermingle  in  the  human  heart,  without  one  or  the  other 
gaining  the  mastery.  The  fear  of  the  Lord  is  clean ;  sin 
must  flee  before  the  pure,  eye-enlightening  commandments  of 
God. 

The  very  partial  success  of  these  repressive  measures,  seems 
to  have  led  to  that  dark  catastrophe,  to  which  in  the  progress 
of  events  we  are  now  brought;  the  burning  alive  of  two 
Flemish  baptists  in  Smithfield,  an  oblation  of  blood  to  the 
demon  of  protestant  intolerance.  Lingering  imprisonments, 
fines,  and  banishment,  had  not  been  found  effectual ;  the  fires 
of  Smithfield  might  perhaps  scare  the  pertinacious  errorist, 
and  by  their  burning  radiance  neutralize  the  glimmerings  of 
the  true  light,  which  here  and  there  feebly  shone.  The  zeal 
of  puritans,  too,  might  be  allayed,  by  this  evidence  of  the 
inexorable  purpose  of  the  queen,  to  permit  no  dissentients 
from  the  national  creed  within  her  dominions. 

It  was  on  Easter-day,  April  3,  1575,  that  a  congregation  of 
Flemish  baptists,  numbering  some  thirty  persons,  men  and 
women,  assembled  in  a  private  house  in  the  suburbs  of  Lon- 

3  Strype's  Parker,  II.  283 


THE   BAPTISTS.  lv 

don,  just  without  Aldgate  Bars.4  The  slaughterings  and 
devastations  of  the  Duke  of  Alva,  in  the  Low  Countries,  had 
caused  severe  distress,  and  loss  of  trade.  Urged  by  the  desire 
of  obtaining  a  livelihood  for  their  wives  and  children,  and 
liberty  to  worship  God  in  the  simplicity  of  faith  and  love, 
these  exiles  had  left  Flanders  for  England.  Outcasts  and 
strangers,  they  sought  a  heavenly  citizenship,  and  in  their 
sojourn  met  to  comfort  each  other,  and  to  unite  their  prayers 
at  the  throne  of  grace.  Their  meeting  was  espied  by  the 
neighbours,  although  conducted  with  secresy.  While  com- 
mending each  other  to  God,  their  devotions  were  suddenly 
interrupted  by  the  entrance  of  a  constable,  who,  addressing 
them  as  devils,  demanded  which  was  their  teacher.  Seven- 
and-twenty  names  were  put  down  at  his  command,  and  taking 
their  promise  to  remain,  he  proceeded  with  a  few  to  the  magis- 
trate. He  shortly  returned,  and  with  opprobrious  and  cruel 
words  drove  the  rest  before  him  to  the  gaol.  Two  escaped 
on  the  way ;  the  rest  were  "  led  as  sheep  to  the  slaughter." 
On  the  third  day  they  were  released,  heavy  bail  being  taken 
for  their  appearance,  whenever  and  wherever  it  should  please 
the  authorities  to  determine.5 

Information  of  the  capture  was  conveyed  to  the  queen's 
council;    and  at  the  suggestion,  apparently,   of  archbishop 

4  Holinshed'sChron.iv.  326, ed.  1808.  Martyrs.      By  Thielem  J.  van  Braght. 

5  Where  not  otherwise  stated,  the  Amsterdam,  two  volumes,  folio,  1685. 
narrative  in  the  text  is  derived  from  The  first  volume  is  a  history  of  the 
three  relations  preserved  in  the  Dutch  church  from  the  first  to  the  fifteenth 
Martyrology.  The  first  is  that  of  the  centuries.  The  second,  and  by  far  the 
martyrologist.  The  second  is  by  Gerrit  largest  of  the  two,  is  devoted  to  the 
van  Byler,  one  of  the  prisoners.  The  martyrdoms  of  baptists  during  the  six- 
third  by  one  James  de  Somer,  a  mem-  teenth  century.  The  account  now  laid 
ber  of  the  Dutch  church  in  London,  before  the  reader  may  be  regarded  as  a 
contained  in  a  letter  to  his  mother,  fair  example  of  the  many  deeply  inter- 
residing  at  Ghent,  in  Flanders  ;  he  esting  narratives  it  contains.  Both 
writes  as  an  eyewitness  of  the  facts  he  volumes  are  adorned  by  a  large  number 
relates,  The  title  of  the  work  is,  The  of  beautifully  executed  and  spirited 
Bloody  Theatre,  or  Mirror  of  Baptist  etchings. 


lvi  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

Parker,  a  commission  was  issued  on  the  27th  of  April,  to 
Sandys,  the  bishop  of  London,  assisted  by  several  civilians 
and  judges,  "to  confer  with  the  accused,  and  to  proceed 
judicially,  if  the  case  so  required."6  But  a  few  days 
elapsed  before  the  summonses  to  appear  were  issued,  and 
these  poor  people  stood  criminally  arraigned,  for  wor- 
shipping God  according  to  their  convictions.  The  court 
assembled  in  the  consistory  of  St.  Paul's;  for  it  was  a  case 
of  heresy.  Besides  the  commissioners,  certain  members 
of  the  Dutch  congregation  were  present  as  interpreters,  a 
French  preacher,  and  two  aldermen.  The  prisoners  first  laid 
before  the  court  a  confession  of  their  faith.  The  bishop 
was  not  satisfied.  He  produced  four  articles,  requiring  their 
subscription ;  if  obstinate  in  their  refusal,  they  should  be 
burnt  alive.     Such  were  the  instructions  he  had  received. 

"  They  proposed  to  lis  four  questions,"  says  one  of  the 
prisoners,"  telling  us  to  say  yea,  or  nay  : — 

"  1.  Whether  Christ  had  not  taken  his  flesh  and  blood  of 
the  Virgin  Mary? 

"  We  answered :  He  is  the  Son  of  the  living  God. 

"  2.  Ought  not  little  children  to  be  baptized  ? 

"  We  answered :  Not  so ;  we  find  it  not  written  in  holy 
scripture. 

"  3.  May  a  Christian  serve  the  office  of  a  magistrate?7 

"  We  answered,  That  it  did  not  oblige  our  consciences ; 
but,  as  we  read,  we  esteemed  it  an  ordinance  of  God. 

"  4.  Whether  a  Christian,  if  needs  be,  may  not  swear  ? 

"  We  answered,  That  it  also  obliged  not  our  consciences ; 
for  Christ  has  said,  in  Matthew,  Let  your  words  be  yea,  yea ; 
nay,  nay.     Then  we  were  silent. 

"  But  the  bishop  said,  that  our  misdeeds  therein  were  so 


6  Soames,  Eliz.  Hist.  p.  213.    Macin-  7  Our  author  understands  the  office  of 

tosh  Eliz.  ch.  xviii.  j>.  375.  a  criminal  magistrate  to  be  meant  here. 


THE  BAPTISTS.  lvii 

great,  that  we  could  not  enjoy  the  favour  of  God.  O  Lord ! 
avenge  it  not.  He  then  said  to  us  all,  that  we  should  be  im- 
prisoned in  the  Marshalsea." 

Many  threats  were  uttered  during  the  examination ;  they 
were  vexed  with  subtle  questions,  and  urged  to  recant  on 
peril  of  a  cruel  death.  That  they  might  expect  no  favour,  the 
bishop  sternly  informed  them  of  the  firm  determination  of 
the  queen  and  her  council,  to  compel  all  strangers  to  sign  a 
renunciation  of  these  articles.  The  conforming  might  remain 
in  the  land,  and  be  free  from  taxes;  but  the  uncompliant 
should  die  a  frightful  death.  The  prisoners  were  unmoved, 
and  were  conveyed  to  the  Marshalsea  for  the  testimony  of 
Christ.  One  young  brother,  the  first  questioned,  was  sent 
into  solitary  confinement  at  Westminster,  for  his  bold 
attestation  to  the  truth. 

And  now  severe  trials  and  temptations  beset  them.  Private 
friendships,  the  arguments  of  learned  men,  and  the  dark  back- 
ground of  a  fearful  death,  combined  to  shake  their  constancy. 
"  Master  Joris  came  to  us  and  said,  If  we  would  join  the 
church,  that  is,  the  Dutch  church,  our  chains  should  be  struck 
off,  and  our  bonds  loosed.  The  bishop,  he  said,  had  given 
him  command  so  to  do.  But  we  remained  stedfast  to  the  truth 
of  Jesus  Christ.  He  is  indeed  our  Captain,  and  no  other ; 
yea,  in  Him  is  all  our  trust.  My  dear  brethren,  and  sweet 
sisters,  let  us  bravely  persevere  until  we  conquer.  The  Lord 
will  then  give  us  to  drink  of  the  new  wine.  O  Lord  strengthen 
our  faith.  As  we  have  received  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  let 
us  go  forward  courageously,  trusting  in  Him." 

Five,  however,  yielded  to  the  solicitations  of  the  Netherland 
preachers,  quailing  at  the  fearful  prospect  set  before  them. 
They  consented  to  forego  their  convictions,  and  subscribe  the 
articles.  Notwithstanding  the  bishop's  promise,  that  subscrip- 
tion should  release  them  from  all  pains  and  penalties,  they  were 
brought  to  St.  Paul's  Cross  on  the  25th  of  May,  to  make  a 


lviil  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

public  recantation.  Taken  in  their  toils,  these  recovered  sheep 
were  not  gently  lifted  on  the  shepherds'  shoulders,  and  brought 
home  with  joyful  shouts,  as  Christ  teaches  us  the  good  pastor 
will  do ;  but  before  many  thousands  of  people,  in  the  church- 
yard of  St.  Paul's,  they  were  set  for  a  gazing-stock,  a  fagot 
bound  on  each  one's  shoulder,  as  a  sign  that  they  were 
worthy  of  the  fire.  At  the  close  of  the  bishop's  sermon,  their 
prescribed  recantation  was  read.  They  declared  themselves 
to  have  been  seduced  by  the  spirit  of  error,  and  that  their  re- 
nounced opinions  were  damnable  and  detestable  heresies ;  but 
that  the  whole  doctrine  and  religion  established  in  England,  as 
also  that  received  and  practised  by  the  Dutch  congregation  in 
London,  was  sound,  true,  and  according  to  the  word  of  God. 
It  was  afterwards  repeated  in  the  Dutch  church,  to  which  they 
promised  to  unite ;  and  bail  taken  for  the  performance  of  the 
vow.8 

Two  several  times  were  the  rest  taken  before  their  inqui- 
sitors, and  for  three  weeks  endured  rigorous  imprisonment, 
the  sore  chafing  of  iron  fetters,  with  mingled  entreaties  and 
threats,  to  induce  them  to  a  renunciation  of  their  faith.  On 
the  11th  May,  a  further  commission  was  issued,  to  proceed 
to  their  condemnation.  On  Whitsun-eve,  the  21st,  ten 
women  and  one  man  were  formally  condemned  to  the  fire, 
one  female  shrank  from  the  trial.9  A  few  days  after  the 
public  penance  at  St.  Paul's,  the  remainder  were  again  brought 
up  to  the  bishop's  court,  the  place  of  Bonner's  savage  cruelties 
in  queen  Mary's  time.  Day  was  just  dawning  when,  bound 
two  and  two,  they  entered  the  place  of  doom.  "  We  remem- 
bered the  word  of  the  Lord,"  says  Gerrit  van  Byler,  "  Wlien 

8  Holinshed,  iv.  326,  327.  that  some  others  had   been  discovered, 

,J  There  is  much  difficulty  in  recon-  and  that  they  were  brought  before  the 

ciling    the    accounts   of    the    English  same  commissioners,  whose  powers  were 

chroniclers,  especially  as  to  the  numbers  enlarged  for  the  purpose, 
tried   and   punished.      It  is   very  likely 


THE    BAPTISTS.  lix 

they  shall  lead  you  before  lords  and  princes,  fear  not  what  you 
shall  say,  for  in  that  hour  it  shall  be  given  you.  So  we  trusted 
in  the  Lord.  The  questions  were  again  proposed,  and  sub- 
scription demanded ;  but  we  said,  That  we  would  cleave  to 
the  word  of  the  Lord." 

In  the  plenitude  of  royal  authority — dare  any  one  call  it 
apostolical? — delegated  to  him,  the  bishop  sentenced  them 
to  excision  from  the  church  of  Christ,  and  to  death;  and 
formally  delivered  them  to  the  secular  arm  for  punishment. 

Fourteen  women  and  a  youth,  bound  together,  were  led 
away  to  Newgate ;  the  remaining  five  were  kept  in  the 
bishop's  custody.  And  now  for  five  or  six  days  they  suffered 
great  anxiety  and  temptation.  Oft  threatened  with  a  cruel 
and  fiery  death,  they  feared,  from  day  to  day,  the  hour  of 
their  offering  up  was  at  hand.  They  were  severely  treated, 
and  compelled  to  hear  the  blasphemies  of  the  vilest  criminals. 
Ten  days  thus  passed,  when  on  the  eve  of  the  first  of  June, 
about  ten  o'clock,  the  gaoler,  with  his  officers,  entered  their 
place  of  confinement,  noted  down  their  goods,  and  bid  them 
prepare  to  die  on  the  morrow.  Seeing  that  their  courage,  and 
faith  in  God,  remained  unshaken,  he  then  announced  to 
them,  that  the  queen,  in  her  clemency,  had  commanded  a 
milder  penalty — banishment.1 

In  the  morning,  surrounded  by  halberdiers,  they  were  led 
by  the  sheriffs  to  the  water-side,  and  put  on  board  a  ship  at 
St.  Catherine's.  The  youth  followed,  tied  to  a  cart's  tail, 
and  was  whipped  to  the  place  of  embarkation.2      Thus  the 

1  In  a  sermon  preached  at  the  Spittle  wickedness  God  plague  the  whole  realm." 

in  London,  probably  about  this  time,  Sermons,  p.  266. 

Sandys  remarked  : — "  Such  as  are  of  no  2  Some  hints  it  appears  were  given  to 

religion,  of  no  church,  godless  and  faith-  the    captain    of  the  vessel,   that  if  the 

less   people,  some   papists,  some   ana-  banished  ones  did  not  reach  the  land  of 

baptists  ;— these  are  to  be  expelled  and  their  fathers  in   safety,  he  need  not  fear 

cast  out  of  the  country,  lest  for  their  any  inquiry.     He  was,  however,  proof 

against  the  base  instigation. 


e 


'2 


lx  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

ties  of  nature  were  severed :  some  of  the  poor  exiles  had  to 
mourn  in  anguish  over  husbands  and  fathers,  left  in  the  hands 
of  their  persecutors,  for  whom  yet  more  cruel  severities  were 
reserved. 

The  next  day,  June  2nd,  the  five  men,3  who  remained  of 
this  company,  were  again  led  bound  into  the  consistory.  The 
terrors  of  the  stake  were  vividly  set  before  them ;  their  only 
escape,  subscription  to  the  articles.  They  were  urged,  they 
were  threatened;  it  was  unavailing.  "It  is  a  small  matter 
thus  to  die,"  said  Jan  Peters,  with  a  courageous  mind.  The 
bishop  sharply  inquired,  "  What  does  he  say  ? "  Peters 
replied.  The  bishop  listened  with  some  moderation,  and  then 
stoutly  said,  u  We  must  shave  such  heretics,  and  cut  them 
off  as  an  evil  thing  from  the  church."4  Said  Hendrik 
Terwoort,  "  How  canst  thou  cut  us  off  from  your  church, 
since  we  are  not  of  it."  The  bishop,  "  It  was  all  the  same  ; 
there  were  none  in  England  who  were  not  members  of  the 
church  of  God."  And  now  were  these  friends  of  Christ 
unjustly  condemned,  and  led  away  to  Newgate  to  await  the 
day  of  death. 

Here  they  were  strongly  secured,  heavily  ironed,  and 
thrown  into  a  deep  and  noisome  den,  swarming  with  foul  and 
disgusting  vermin.  "  Then  we  thought  ourselves,"  says 
Byler,  "  within  one  or  two  days  of  the  end,  after  which  we 
earnestly  longed,  for  the  prison  was  grievous ;  but  it  was  not 
yet  the  Lord's  will.  After  eight  days,  one  of  our  brethren 
was  released  by  death,  trusting  in  God  ;   his  dying  testimony 

3  It  is  manifest  that  Strype  is  mis-  with  a  rod  of  iron, at  least  to  be  restrained 

taken  in  supposing  that  these  were  the  that  their  leprosy  infect  not  the  sound  ; 

five     who    had     previously     recanted.  nets    must    be   spread    by   which    the 

Strype's  Annals,  II.  i.  564.  papal  stragglers,  the  firebrands  of  sedi- 

*  A    few    years   later,    when    arch-  tions,  and  pests  of  the  church,  may  be 

bishop  of  York,  Sandys,  in  a  pastoral  snared  and  fall."     The  bishop  was  at 

letter,  said  : — "  Those  who  are  stubborn  least  impartial  in  his  zeal  for  the  church's 

and    inveterate  foes  are  to  be  bruised  purity.     Sandys'  Sermons,  p.  441. 


THE    BAPTISTS,  lxi 

filled  us  with  joy."  Even  the  society  of  thieves  and  male- 
factors was  deemed  too  pure  for  them,  both  the  bishop  and  a 
preacher  saying,  that  care  must  be  taken,  lest  the  criminals 
should  be  corrupted  by  the  association.  Great  indeed  must 
have  been  the  horror  their  opinions  had  inspired,  when  an 
English  preacher,  occasionally  visiting  their  dungeon,  would 
lay  his  hands  upon  them,  and  falling  upon  his  knees,  cry 
aloud,  "  Sirs,  be  ye  converted ; "  and  then,  exorcising  the 
devil  within  them,  exclaim,  "  Hence,  depart,  thou  evil  fiend  ! " 
But  exertions  of  another  kind  were  not  wanting  on  their 
behalf.  Strenuous  efforts  were  made  to  bring  their  case 
before  the  queen.  An  earnest  supplication,  and  a  confession 
of  their  faith  on  the  four  articles,  were  prepared ;  but  the 
attempt  to  present  them  to  her  was  met  with  a  stern  and 
passionate  rebuke  to  the  ladies  of  her  court,  who  ventured  to 
intrude  on  the  royal  prerogative.  Reports  of  the  most 
unjust  kind  were  rumoured  about ;  that  they  disowned  God 
and  Christ,  and  rejected  all  government  and  authority  of 
magistrates.5  Her  majesty  was  not  free  from  these  impres- 
sions, and  they  were  sedulously  fostered  in  her  mind,  by 
parties  thirsting  for  innocent  blood.  The  bishop  was  next 
applied  to.  A  nobleman,  Lord  de  Bodley,  undertook  to 
plead  their  cause,  and,  if  possible,  move  his  compassion.  A 
simple  confession  of  their  faith  was  laid  before  him.  But 
bishop  Sandys  refused  to  interfere.  He  even  demanded 
their  assent  to  the  doctrine,  that  a  Christian  magistrate  may 
rightly  punish  the  obstinate  heretic  with  the  sword ! 6 


5  "  Barbarous  and  wicked  is  the  opi-  6  This  was  no  hasty  opinion  of  the 
nion  of  the  anabaptists,  which  condemn  bishop  ;  for  thus  he  instructs  the  par- 
all  superiority,  authority,  and  govern-  liament  at  an  early  period  of  the 
ment  in  the  church.  For  what  is  this  reign:  —  "Such  as  teach,  but  teach 
else,  but  utterly  to  expel,  both  out  of  not  the  good  and  right  way  ;  such  as 
church  and  commonwealth,  all  godli-  are  open  and  public  maintainers  of 
ness,  all  peace,  all  honesty  ?"  Sandys'  errors  and  heresy  ;  such  in  the  judg- 
Sermons,  p.  85.     Preached  at  York.  ment  of  God,  are  thought  unworthy  to 


lxii  HISTORICAL   INTRODUCTION. 

A  month's  reprieve  was,  however,  granted  them,  at  the 
earnest  suit  of  the  venerable  martyrologist,  John  Fox.  His 
pious  admiration  of  the  Marian  martyrs  was  shocked  at 
the  thought,  that  the  scene  of  their  triumphs  would  be 
denied  with  the  blood  of  these  fanatic  and  miserable  wretches. 
To  roast  alive  was  more  accordant  to  papal  practices,  he  said, 
than  to  the  custom  of  the  gospellers.  He  therefore  urged 
upon  her  majesty,  the  adoption  of  some  other  mode  of  punish- 
ment. Might  not  close  imprisonment,  or  bonds,  or  perpetual 
banishment,  or  burning  of  the  hand,  or  scourging,  or  even 
slavery,  suffice  ?  Any  or  all  of  these  would  be  preferable  to 
death  by  fire.  But  not  one  word  does  her  "Father  Fox" 
breathe  of  tenderness  for  the  rights  of  conscience.  He  also 
addressed  the  victims.  He  laboured  to  persuade  them  to 
acknowledge  their  error,  and  bow  to  the  voice  of  scripture ; 
to  cease  "  to  cultivate  certain  fanatic  conceptions,  nay,  rather 
deceptions,"  of  their  own  minds ;  "  for  it  is  sufficiently 
apparent,  that  for  long  you  have  disturbed  the  church  by 
your  great  scandal  and  offence."  To  the  lord  chief  justice 
Monson,  one  of  their  judges,  he  sent  a  copy  of  his  letters  to 
the  queen  and  council,  further  reprobating  the  punishment 
of  death,  and  advocating  a  milder  punishment.7  The  suf- 
ferers highly  estimated  his  kindly  interference;  but  while 
they  thanked  him  for  his  condescension,  they  endeavoured 
to  change  his  unfavourable  opinion.8 

live.  ...  I  have  no  cruel  heart :  blood  his  Churoh  History,   ii.  507.      Crosby 

be  far  from  me :  I  mind  nothing  less.  has  given  a  translation  of  it.     Hist,  of 

Yet  needs  must  it  be  granted  that  the  Eng.  Baptists,  i.  80.     Fox's  letters  to 

niaiiitainers  and  teachers  of  errors  and  the  lord  chief  justice  and  to  the  council, 

heresy,   are   to   be  repressed   in   every  still  exist  among  the  Harleian  MSS.  in 

Christian    commonwealth  !"       Sandys'  the    British    Museum,   and  have  never 

Sermon3,  p.  40.  yet,    we   believe,  been    printed.      The 

7  Prebendary    Townsend's     Life    of  excellent  and  interesting  answer  of  the 

Fox,  in  vol.  i.  of  the  8vo.  edit,  of  Acts  prisoners  to  Fox,  we  have  placed  in  the 

and  Mon.  p.  198.  Addenda,  Note  A.     Also  their  supplica- 

6  Fox's  letter  to  the  queen  has  been  tion  to  the  queen,   and   confession   of 

several  times   printed  ;  as  by  Fuller  in  faith. 


THE  BAPTISTS.  lxiii 

The  month  expired,  without  any  alteration  in  the  resolution 
of  these  servants  of  God,  or  in  their  fidelity  to  the  truths  they 
had  received.  Early  in  the  month  of  July,  it  was  intimated 
to  two  of  them,  that  they  must  die.  Incarcerated  in  separate 
cells,  they  were  not  permitted  to  enjoy  each  other's  society,  and 
words  of  love.  On  the  15th,  the  queen  signed,  at  Gorham- 
bury,  the  warrant  and  writ  for  the  execution  to  proceed.9 
Jan  Peters  and  Hendrik  Terwoort  were  the  two  selected. 

Jan  Peters 1  was  an  aged  man,  and  poor,  with  nine  children. 
His  first  wife,  some  years  before,  had  been  burnt  for  her 
religion,  at  Ghent,  in  Flanders ;  and  his  then  wife  had  lost 
her  first  husband  by  martyrdom  for  the  truth.  They  had 
fled  to  England,  hoping  there  to  worship  without  danger. 
His  circumstances  were  laid  before  the  bishop,  and  he  had 
earnestly  entreated  permission  to  leave  the  country  with  his 
wife  and  children  ;  but  the  bishop  was  inexorable. 

Hendrik  Terwoort  was  a  man  of  good  estate,  five  or  six- 
and-twenty  years  of  age,  and  a  goldsmith  by  trade.  He  had 
been  married  about  eight  or  ten  weeks  before  his  imprison- 
ment. But  neither  domestic  affection,  nor  the  solicitations 
of  his  friends,  nor  the  dread  of  death,  weakened  his  resolution. 

On  Sunday,  the  17th,  tidings  were  brought  them,  that 
within  three  days  they  would  be  burnt,  unless  they  desired 
delay.  To  this  Terwoort  replied,  "  Since  this  your  design 
must  come  to  pass,  so  we  wish  you  to  speed  the  more  quickly 
with  the  matter,  for  we  would  indeed  rather  die  than  live,  to 
be  released  from  this  frightful  den."     He,  however,  asked  till 

9  Doc.  Annals,  i.  360.     Prebendary  1  By  the  chronicler,  Stow,  he  is  called 

Townsend  says,  "  I  have  examined  the  John  Wielmacker,  but  in  the  warrant 

writ  by  virtue  of  which  they  were  burnt :  for  execution  John  Peters,  as   in    the 

and  am  sorry  to  say  that  it  is  worded  Dutch  narratives.     Perhaps  the  former 

as  the  old  writs  for   burning  the  epis-  indicates  his  trade,  that  of  a  wheelwright, 

copal  and  other  protestants  in  the  reign  Van  Braght  does  not  mention  his  occu- 

of  Mary."     Life  of  Fox,  p.  199,  vol.  i.  pation. 
8vo.  edit,  of  Acts  and  Mon. 


lxiv  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

Friday.  We  again  quote  the  affecting  narrative  of  their 
companion  in  tribulation.  "  Upon  Tuesday,  a  stake  was 
set  up  in  Smithfield,  but  the  execution  was  not  that  day. 
On  Wednesday,  many  people  were  gathered  together  to 
witness  the  death  of  our  two  friends,  but  it  was  again 
deferred.  This  was  done  to  terrify,  and  draw  our  friends 
and  us  from  the  faith.  But  on  Friday,  our  two  friends, 
Hendrik  Terwoort  and  Jan  Peters,  being  brought  out  from 
their  prison,  were  led  to  the  sacrifice.  As  they  went  forth,  Jan 
Peters  said,  '  The  holy  prophets,  and  also  Christ,  our  Saviour, 
have  gone  this  way  before  us,  even  from  the  beginning,  from 
Abel  until  now.' " 

It  was  early  morning  when  they  reached  the  scene  of  their 
triumph.  They  were  fastened  to  one  stake,  neither  strangling, 
nor  gunpowder  being  used  to  diminish  their  torture.  As 
defenceless  sheep  of  Christ,  following  the  footsteps  of  their 
master,  resolutely,  for  the  name  of  Christ,  they  went  to  die. 
An  English  preacher  was  present,  to  embitter,  if  possible, 
by  his  cruel  mockings,  the  closing  moments  of  their  martyr- 
life,  and  martyr-death.  Before  all  the  people  he  exclaimed, 
"  These  men  believe  not  on  God."  Saith  Jan  Peters,  "  We 
believe  in  one  God,  our  heavenly  Father  Almighty,  and  in 
Jesus  Christ  his  Son/'  While  standing  bound  at  the  stake, 
the  articles  were  again,  for  the  last  time,  presented  to  them, 
and  pardon  promised  on  subscription.  Peters  again  spake, 
"  You  have  laboured  hard  to  drive  us  to  you,  but  now,  when 
placed  at  the  stake,  it  is  labour  in  vain."  One  of  the 
preachers  attempted  an  excuse  :  "  That  all  such  matters  were 
determined  by  the  council,  and  that  it  was  the  queen's  inten- 
tion they  should  die."  But  said  Peters,  "You  are  the 
teachers  of  the  queen,  whom  it  behoves  you  to  instruct 
better,  therefore  shall  our  blood  be  required  at  your  hands." 

And  now  with  courage  they  entered  on  the  conflict,  and 
fought  through  the  trial,  in  the  midst  of  the  burning  flame ; 


THE    BAPTISTS. 


lxv 


an  oblation  to  the  Lord,  which  they  living  offered  unto  him. 
Accepting  not  of  deliverance,  for  the  truth's  sake,  they 
counted  not  their  lives  dear  unto  them,  that  they  might 
finish  their  course  with  joy. 

"  For  what  were  thy  terrors,  O  Death  ? 
And  where  was  thy  triumph,  0  Grave  ? 
When  the  vest  of  pure  white,  and  the  conquering  wreath 
Were  the  prize  of  the  scorned  and  the  slave  ?  " — Dale. 

We  are  saved  comment  on  this  painful  scene.  All  writers, 
of  every  party,  are  agreed  in  condemnation  of  its  folly  and 
criminality.  "  How  utterly  absurd  and  unchristian,"  saith 
our  Dutch  martyrologist,  "  do  all  such  cruel  proceedings,  and 
sentences  as  are  here  seen,  appear,  when  contrasted  with  the 
Christian  faith.  The  Christian  host  is  described  as  sheep  and 
lambs,  sent  forth  among  cruel  and  devouring  wolves :  Who 
will  be  able  with  a  good  conscience  to  believe,  that  these 
English  preachers  were  the  true  sheep  of  Christ,  since  in  this 
matter  they  brought  forth  so  notably  the  fruit  of  wolves?"2 

But  although  none  defend  the  deed,  some  defame  the 
sufferers  to  lessen  its  enormity.  They  were  actuated,  it  is 
said,  by  a  spirit  of  insubordination,  and  their  principles  were 
of  a  disorganizing  tendency ;  the  overthrow  of  church  and 
commonwealth  must  have  followed  their  prevalence,  and  it 
was  incumbent  on  the  ruling  authority  to  crush  the  germ  of 
sedition  and  rebellion  in  its  earliest  form.  And  so  it  has 
been  ever  said  of  the  members  of  the  spiritual  kingdom  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ ;  and  without  question,  while  oppres- 
sion reigns  supreme,  while  injustice  ravages  the  homes  and 
possessions  of  a  people,  while  the  honour  of  God  and  the 

2  The  other  two  sufferers  were  for  a  window,    they    were    discovered,    and 

long  time  kept  in  prison.     The  last  we  heavily  ironed.     James  de  Somer,  in 

hear  of  them  is,  that  attempting  to  es-  conjunction  with  a  friend,  made  several 

cape,  by  filing  the  bars  of  their  dungeon  ineffectual  efforts  to  obtain  their  release. 


lxvi  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

rights  of  conscience  are  trampled  under  foot, — the  gospel  of 
eternal  verity,  the  word  of  the  God  of  equity,  and  the  pure 
unworldly  doctrine  of  Christ,  must  overturn,  overturn,  until 
He  shall  reign,  whose  is  the  right.  But  when  under  the 
garb  of  religion,  when  in  the  name  of  holy  truth,  when  with 
the  words  of  heaven  upon  their  lips,  men  go  forth  to  slay  the 
innocent,  to  destroy  the  lowly  disciple  of  Jesus,  to  forbid  the 
word  of  the  living  God  to  echo  in  the  soul  the  voice  of  the 
Eternal,  and  to  stifle  the  groanings  of  the  human  spirit  under 
its  bond-chain  of  sin  and  woe,  sighing  for  liberty  to  serve  its 
God,  and,  as  the  free  angels  of  his  presence,  to  obey  His  will- 
then  human  guilt  has  reached  its  highest  mark,  and  displayed 
the  most  intensely  aifecting  feature  of  the  ruin  which  has 
befallen  our  race.  It  is  an  effort  to  crush  the  only  means  of 
man's  restoration,  to  quench  the  spark  of  reviving  life  amid 
the  agonizing  death- throes  of  the  human  soul. 

But  what  was  the  crime  of  which  these  victims  of  into- 
lerance so  dreadful  were  guilty?  Did  they  aim  at  the 
queen's  life  ?  Did  they  assemble  to  plot  the  ruin  of  the  state 
which  sheltered  them?  Did  they  league  with  any  whose 
glory  is  in  their  shame,  to  assassinate,  to  rob,  to  violate  the 
rights  of  their  neighbour  ?  Let  us  hear  them  speak  from 
their  abyss  of  sorrow,  "  We,  poor  and  despised  strangers, 
who  are  in  persecution  for  the  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ, 
entreat  from  God  for  all  men,  of  every  race  and  degree,  that 
the  Lord  may  grant  perpetual  peace  and  every  happiness, 
and  that  we  may  live  among  them  in  peace  and  godliness, 
to  the  praise  and  glory  of  the  Lord.  Our  fatherland,  our 
friendships,  our  property,  have  we  been  compelled  to  forsake, 
through  great  tyranny,  and  as  lambs  before  wolves,  have  fled, 
only  for  the  pure  evangelic  truth  of  Christ,  and  not  for 
uproars  and  seditions,  as  we  arc  accused.  .  .  .  We  know  that 
we  follow  no  strange  gods,  neither  have  we  an  heretical  faith, 
contrary  to  the  word  of  Christ.      But  we  believe  in  one  God, 


THE    BAPTISTS.  lxvii 

the  Father  Almighty,  Creator  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth ; 
in  one  Jesus  Christ,  his  only  beloved  Son ;  who  was  con- 
ceived of  the  Holy  Ghost,  born  of  the  undefined  Virgin  Mary, 
suffered  under  Pontius  Pilate,  was  crucified,  died,  and  was 
buried.  On  the  third  day  he  rose  from  the  dead,  ascended 
to  heaven,  and  is  sitting  at  the  right  hand  of  God,  the  Father 
Almighty  ;  from  thence  he  will  come  again  to  judge  the  quick 
and  the  dead.  We  believe  in  the  Holy  Ghost.  We  believe 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  true  God  and  man.  .  .  .  We  do  not 
boast  ourselves  to  be  free  from  sin,  but  confess  that  every 
moment  we  are  sinners  before  God.  But  we  must  abstain 
from  wilful  sins,  if  we  would  be  saved ;  viz.,  from-  adultery, 
fornication,  witchcraft,  sedition,  bloodshed,  cursing  and 
stealing  .  .  .  hatred  and  envy.  They  who  do  such  things 
shall  not  possess  the  kingdom  of  God."  Here  we  leave  this 
noble  evangelic  confession  of  the  martyr,  Hendrik  Terwoort. 
He  hath  fairly  won  the  martyr's  crown.  Although  despised, 
trampled  upon,  and  his  name  held  accursed  among  men,  his  is 
the  palm-branch  of  victory,  and  the  white  robe,  washed  and 
made  white  in  the  blood  of  the  Lamb. 

Not  less  nobly  does  he  plead  the  rights  of  conscience. 
"Observe  well  the  command  of  God:  Thou  shalt  love  the 
stranger  as  thyself.  Should  he  then  who  is  in  misery,  and 
dwelling  in  a  strange  land,  be  driven  thence  with  his  com- 
panions, to  their  great  damage  ?  Of  this  Christ  speaks, 
Whatsoever  ye  would  that  men  should  do  to  you,  do  ye  even  so  to 
them  :  for  this  is  the  law  and  the  prophets.  Oh  !  that  they 
would  deal  with  us  according  to  natural  reasonableness,  and 
evangelic  truth,  of  which  our  persecutors  so  highly  boast. 
For  Christ  and  his  disciples  persecuted  no  one ;  but,  on  the 
contrary,  Jesus  hath  thus  taught,  Love  your  enemies,  bless  them 
that  curse  you,  8fc.  This  doctrine  Christ  left  behind  with  his 
apostles,  as  they  testify.  Thus  Paul,  Unto  this  present  hour 
we  both  hunger,  and  thirst,  and  are  naked,  and  are  buffeted,  and 


lxviil  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

have  no  certain  dwelling  place ;  and  labour,  working  with  our 
own  hands :  being  reviled,  we  bless;  being  persecuted,  we  suffer 
it.  From  all  this  it  is  clear,  that  those  who  have  the  one  true 
gospel  doctrine  and  faith  will  persecute  no  one,  but  will 
themselves  be  persecuted."3 

The  reader  is  now  able  to  judge  of  the  truth  of  the  innu- 
merable crimes  laid  to  the  charge  of  these  the  Lord's  afflicted 
ones,  the  baptists  of  that  age.  Thus  runs  the  accusation  of  the 
celebrated  Whitgift: — They  give  honour  and  reverence  to  none 
in  authority; — they  seek  the  overthrow  of  commonwealths 
and  states  of  government ; — they  are  full  of  pride  and  con- 
tempt ; — their  whole  intent  is  schismatic,  and  to  be  free  from 
all  laws,  to  live  as  they  list; — they  feign  an  austerity  of  life 
and  manners,  and  are  great  hypocrites,  &c.  But  the  same 
high  authority,  the  future  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  adds 
these  following  particulars  as  aggravations,  of  their  guilt : — In 
all  their  doings  they  pretend  the  glory  of  God,  the  edifying 
of  the  church,  and  the  purity  of  the  gospel ; — when  punished 
for  their  errors,  they  greatly  complain,  that  nothing  is  used 
but  violence :  that  the  truth  is  oppressed,  innocent  and  godly 
men,  who  would  have  all  things  reformed  according  to  the 
word  of  God,  cannot  be  heard,  nor  have  liberty  to  speak,  and 
that  their  mouths  are  stopped,  not  by  God's  word,  but  by  the 
authority  of  the  magistrate ; — they  assert,  that  the  civil  magis- 
trate has  no  authority  in  ecclesiastical  matters,  and  ought  not  to 
meddle  in  causes  of  religion  and  faith,  and  that  no  man  ought 
to  be  compelled  to  faith  and  religion ;  — and  lastly,  they  com- 
plain much  of  persecution,  and  brag  that  they  defend  their 

3  Besides  the  narratives,  the  suppli-  emhracing  the  most  important  doctrines 

cation  to  the  queen,   and  the  reply  to  of  holy  writ ;  this  latter  is  deposited  in 

Fox,  already  referred  to,  the  martyrolo-  the  Addenda  to  this  volume,  as  it  will 

gist  has  preserved  a  writing,  or  letter,  of  serve  to  show  the  general  orthodoxy  of 

considerable  length,  by  Terwoort,  from  the  baptists  at  that  period.     Note  A. 

which  the  two   passages  above  are  ex-  See  Het  Bloedig  Toonel.  Deel  ii.  pp. 

tracts;   and   also  a  confession  of  faith,  694 — 712. 


THE    BAPTISTS.  lxix 

cause,  not  with  words  only,  but  by  the  shedding  of  their 
blood.4 

These  were  the  high  crimes  and  misdemeanors  of  which 
the  baptists  were  accused.  They  need  neither  counsel  nor 
apologist.  The  indictment  is  at  the  same  time  their  accusa- 
tion, and  their  acquittal.  Their  deeds  were  noble;  their 
sentiments  just.  Their  affliction  and  triumphant  deaths, 
reflect  glory  on  the  holy  truths  of  humanity's  Great  Martyr, 
in  whose  footsteps  of  blood  they  trod  ;  but  shame  upon  the 
men,  who,  with  loud  professions  of  fidelity  to  Him,  slew  the 
servants  he  had  sent. 

We  have  perhaps  lingered  too  long  over  these  events,  but 
justice,  oft  somewhat  tardy  in  her  pace,  seemed  to  demand 
that  the  sufferers  should  at  last  be  heard  in  defence,  after 
nearly  three  centuries  of  defamation  and  obloquy ;  and  that 
the  meagre  and  hostile  accounts  of  our  historians  be  corrected 
by  authentic  narrations,  preserved  in  a  foreign  tongue,  and 
now  for  the  first  time  presented  to  the  English  reader.5 

From  this  time  until  the  reign  of  James,  the  notices  of  the 
baptists  in  our  writers  and  annalists,  are  but  few  and  indis- 
tinct. Although  "they  were  rife  in  many  places  of  the  land," 
as  we  are  told  by  Mr.  Cartwright  in  1575,6  the  severities  they 
endured  doubtless  caused  many  to  emigrate,  and  the  rest  to 
hide  in  dens  and  caves  of  the  earth.  Yet  on  the  literature  of 
the  time,  their  name  was  ever  floating  as  a  term  of  reproach. 
Their  principles  were  thrown  from  disputant  to  disputant, 
evidently  felt,  though  not  seen,  to  be  the  only  justifiable  basis 
of  the  changes  made  or  urged  by  the  conflicting  parties. 
Their  views  formed  the  ultimate  idea  of  the  great  movement 


4  An  Answere  to  a  certen  Libel,  &c.  desired,  both  in  England  and  America  ; 
by  John  Whitgift,  D.  of  Divinitie,  pp.  it  is  hoped  that  the  Hanserd  Knollys 
3 — 5.     ed.  L572.  Society  may  be  able  to  effect  this  im- 

5  A  translation  of  the  deeply  affecting  portant  object. 

narratives  of  Van  Braght  has  been  often  6  Second  Replie.    Epist.  ed.   1575. 


1XX  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

of  the  reformation,  although  eschewed  by  every  other  party, 
as  subversive  of  that  union  of  things  sacred  and  secular,  to 
which  both  reformers  and  puritans  clung  with  a  blind  perti- 
nacity. It  was  anabaptistical,  to  hold  that  the  church  ought 
to  be  constituted  of  believers  only ; — to  separate  from  the 
national  church  because  of  its  many  unscriptural  practices, 
unauthorized  constitutions,  and  the  impiety  of  the  majority  of 
its  members  ; — to  demand  that  the  minister  of  the  word  should 
be  a  believer  of  the  truths  he  preached,  and  a  practiser  of  the 
piety  he  inculcated ; — to  give  to  the  whole  community  of  the 
faithful  the  power  of  electing  their  pastor,  of  binding  and 
loosing,  of  discipline  and  instruction,  and  to  call  such  as  were 
gifted  by  divine  grace,  whether  learned  or  unlearned,  to  the 
teacher's  office ;— and  lastly,  to  exclude  the  magistrate  from 
the  exercise  of  any  civil  power  in  the  church.7 

We  may  adopt  the  language  of  Bishop  Sanderson  on  this 
subject: — "The  Reverend  Archbishop  Whitgift,  and  the 
learned  Hooker,  men  of  great  judgment,  and  famous  in  their 
times,  did  long  since  foresee  and  declare  their  fear,  that  if 
puritanism  should  prevail  among  us,  it  would  soon  draw  in 
anabaptism  after  it.  This  Cartwright  and  the  disciplinarians 
denied,  and  were  offended  at.  But  these  good  men  judged 
right  ;  they  considered,  only  as  prudent  men,  that  ana- 
baptism  had  its  rise  from  same  principle  the  puritans  held, 
and  its  growth  from  the  same  course  they  took,  together  with 
the  natural  tendency  of  their  principles  and  practices  towards 
it ;  especially  that  One  Principle,  as  it  was  by  them  mis- 
understood ;  that  the  scripture  was  adequata  agendorum  regula, 
so  as  nothing  might  lawfully  be  done,  without  express  war- 
rant, either  from  some  command  or  example  therein  contained ; 

7  See  A  Godly  Treatise,  wherein  are  partly  by  other   of  the   anabaptistical 
examined  and  confuted  many  execrable  order.     Written  by  Robert  Some,  Doc- 
fancies,  given  out  and  holden  partly  by  tor  of  Divinity,  4to.  London,  1580. 
Henry  Barrovve  and  John  Greenwood  : 


THE    BAPTISTS.  JXXl 

which  clue,  if  followed  as  far  as  it  would  go,  would  certainly 
in  time  carry  them  as  far  as  the  anabaptists  had  then  gone."8 

Thus  it  was  that  Whitgift,  in  his  controversy  with  Cart- 
wright,  drew  a  full  length  portrait  of  these  men,  as  the 
original  picture  of  the  "  holy  discipline ; "  but  marred  by  the 
superfluous  touches  of  the  puritans.  He  likewise  appeared 
as  the  antagonist  of  the  baptists  in  a  sermon  at  St.  Paul's  in 
1583.9  Hence  the  universal  execration  which  attended  them, 
and  the  solemn  asseveration  of  the  puritan  justices  of  Norfolk, 
"  We  allow  not  of  the  anabaptists,  nor  of  their  community ; 
we  allow  not  of  the  Brovvnists,  the  overthrowers  both  of 
church  and  commonwealth ;  we  abhor  all  these,  and  we 
punish  them." 1     Every  man's  hand  was  against  them. 

Still  they  lingered  in  various  places,  nor  could  all  the 
diligence  of  their  foes  wholly  extirpate  them.  "I  would," 
says  the  author  of  the  Defence  of  the  Ecclesiastical  Discipline, 
in  1588,  "I  would  we  could  say  for  our  church,  that  there  are 
none  of  the  family,  no  recusants,  yea,  no  anabaptists,  nor 
libertines,  amongst  us."  2  A  congregation  was  discovered  in 
1586,  of  which  one  Glover  was  the  minister,  which  appears 
to  have  been  formed  from  this  persecuted  sect.  He  was 
imprisoned  by  the  order  of  Whitgift,  but  released  through 
the  interference  of  Lord  Burghley.3  Two  years  after,  (1588,) 
some  further  discoveries  were  made  of  several  conventicles  of 
"wicked  sects  and  opinions."  In  the  summer  time  they  met 
in  the  fields.  Seated  on  a  bank,  they  read,  and  listened  to 
exhortations,  from  the  word  of  God,  by  some  of  their  number. 
In  the  winter  they  assembled  in  a  house  at  the  early  hour  of 
five ;  the  day  was  passed  in  prayer  and  scripture  exposition. 
They  dined  together,  then  collected  money  to  pay  for  their 
food,  carrying  the  surplus  to  any  of  their  brethren  who  were 

8  Quoted  in  Early  Hist,   of  Rhode  L  Parte  of  a  Register,  p  129. 
Island,  p.  112.     Boston,  1843.                         2  P.  183. 

9  Strype's  Whitgift,  i.  264.  3  Strype's  Annals,  III.  i.  634. 


lxxil  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

in  bonds  for  the  testimony  of  a  good  conscience.  They  used 
no  form  of  prayer,  not  even  the  Lord's  prayer  ;  their  devo- 
tions were  extemporaneous.  "  The  use  of  stinted  pray,er,  or 
said  service,  is  but  babbling  in  the  Lord's  sight,"  they  said, 
"  and  hath  neither  promise  of  blessing,  nor  edification." 
They  regarded  Christ  as  the  supreme  governor  of  the  church; 
the  queen  had  neither  authority  to  appoint  ministers,  nor  to 
frame  any  ecclesiastical  government  for  it.  A  private  man, 
being  a  brother,  might  preach,  and  "  beget  faith ;  "  but  every 
man  in  his  own  calling  was  to  preach  the  gospel.  It  was 
unlawful  to  attend  the  public  prayer  and  preaching,  because 
the  clergy  taught,  "  that  the  state  of  the  realm  of  England  is 
the  true  church;"  this  they  denied  ;  the  preachers  were 
false  preachers,  who  proclaimed  not  the  glad  tidings  of  the 
gospel.  They  were  under  no  obligation  to  wait  for  the 
magistrate  to  reform  the  church ;  whenever  stones  were 
ready,  they  ought  to  go  forward  with  the  building,  as  the 
apostles  did ;  but  the.  preachers  made  Christ  attend  upon 
princes,  and  be  subject  to  their  laws  and  government.  They 
held  it  unlawful  to  baptize  children.  They  refused  the  salu- 
tary water  to  a  child,  twelve  years  of  age,  who  tearfully 
sought  to  repair  its  parents'  neglect ;  and,  when  the  child 
was  publicly  baptized  at  the  command  of  the  Chamber  of 
London,  the  mother  fled  for  fear  of  punishment.4 

Thus  the  leaven  of  true  doctrine  slowly  and  secretly 
spread.  Many  also  of  the  Brownists,  on  emigration,  became 
baptists.  Thus  Mr.  Johnson,  writing  in  1606,  says,  "About 
thirteen  year*  since,  this  church,  through  persecution  in 
England,  was  driven  to  come  into  these  countries  [Low 
Countries.]  A  while  after  they  were  come  hither,  divers  of 
them  fell  into  the  errors  of  the  anabaptists,  which  are  too 
common  in  these  countries,  and  so  persisting,  were  excomrau- 

4  Strype's  Annals,  III.  ii.  102—106. 


THE    BAPTISTS.  lxxiii 

nicated  by  the  rest." 5  And  it  will  be  remembered,  that 
a  few  years  earlier,  the  congregation  formed  by  Mr. 
Browne  at  Middelburg,  lost  many  of  its  members  from  the 
same  cause. 

From  a  very  singular  book,  written  by  one  John  Payne, 
at  Harlaem,  in  1597,  it  appears  that  there  were  considerable 
numbers  of  baptized  believers  in  this  country.  He  makes 
especial  mention  of  a  prisoner  in  Norwich  gaol,  Maydstone  by 
name,  incarcerated  and  threatened  with  death  for  professing 
baptist  sentiments.  He  addresses  his  loving  brethren,  the 
merchants  who  frequent  the  Royal  Exchange,  to  quicken 
them  with  a  godly  emulation,  ere  the  axe  be  laid  to  the  root 
of  the  tree.  He  is  most  anxious,  however,  to  give  the  various 
classes  of  his  fellow-countrymen  warning  to  avoid  "new 
English  anabaptists."  et  I  wish  you  beware  of  the  dangerous 
opinions  of  such  English  anabaptists  bred  here,  as  whose 
parsons,  in  part  with  more  store  of  their  letters,  doth  creep 
and  spread  among  you  in  city  and  country."  Having  heard 
of  the  proposed  execution  of  Maydstone,  he  urges  his  wish 
that  the  prisoner  should  not  be  put  to  death,  but  banished ; 
"  by  reason,  our  noble  prince,  judges,  nor  state,  should  not 
be  so  reputed  of,  with  such  hard  terms,  by  anabaptists  and 
others,  as  I  am  loath  here  to  express ;  and  (I  am)  already 
grieved  to  hear,  what  I  hear,  by  occasion  of  report,  that  one 
of  this  English  company  is  shortly  like  to  die,  being  pri- 
soner at  Norwich."  He  then  appeals  to  the  "  prisoner  at 
Norwich  ; "  hopes  some  loving  brother  will  signify  to  him, 
that  "  his  suddenly  stepping  from  his  spiritual  mother  to  a 
new  stepdame,  rejecting  the  sweet  food  of  the  one,  and  licking 
up  the  poison  of  the  other,  that  therefore  his  suffering  is  as 
comfortless  as  it  is  rash  and  perilous."  The  usual  topics  of 
reproach  are  then  introduced,  and,  as  was  likewise  usual,  the 

5  An  Inquirie  and  Answer  of  Thomas  White,  &c.  p.  63,  ed.  1606. 

/ 


lxxiv  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

sufferer's  opinions  misstated,  distorted,  and  defamed.6  It  is 
unnecessary  to  quote,  since  the  reader  is  by  this  time  familiar 
with  them,  and  can  estimate  the  little  confidence  to  be  placed 
in  the  accusations  of  a  prejudiced  opponent. 

We  here  close  our  notes  from  the  fragmentary  history  of  a 
people,  who,  among  the  mighty  movements  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  held  a  subordinate,  but  by  no  means  unimportant 
place.  The  history  of  their  embodiment  into  churches,  having 
historical  records  of  their  own,  and  an  abiding  place  in  this 
land,  belongs  rather  to  the  notices  which  will  accompany  the 
earliest  remaining  writings  of  their  pastors,  Mr.  John  Smyth 
and  Mr.  Thomas  Helwys. 

It  has  been  seen  that  their  idea,  the  true  archetypal  idea,  of 
the  church,  was  the  grand  cause  of  the  separation  of  the 
baptists,  as  individuals  and  communities,  from  all  the  various 
forms  of  ecclesriastical  arrangement  adopted  by  the  reformers 
and  their  successors.  There  could  be  no  harmony  between 
the  parties ;  they  were  antagonistic  from  the  first.  Hence 
the  baptists  cannot  be  regarded  as  owing  their  origin  to  a 
secession  from  the  protestant  churches ;  they  occupied  an 
independent  and  original  position,  one  which  unquestionably 
involved  suffering  and  loss  from  its  unvvorldliness,  and  manifest 
contrariety  to  the  political  tendencies  and  alliances  of  the 
reform  movement.  Let  it  be  granted  as  a  truth  of  divine 
origin  and  power,  that  a  visible  church  of  Christ  ought  to 
comprise  none  but  such  as  are  believers  in  his  doctrine,  under 
the  influence  of  his  Spirit,  and  subject  to  him  as  Head  over  all 
things  to  Ids  church ;  then  it  follows,  that  the  mixed  assem- 
blages of  a  national  church,  under  the  headship  of  worldly 
princes,  cannot  be  the  true  churches  of  Christ ;  and  also,  that 
the  exercise  of  secular  power  by  the  magistrate,  either  as  the 

6  Royall  Exchange :  To  suclie  wor-  resorte  thervnto. — At  Harlem,  printed 
shipfull  Citezins,Marcliants,  Gentlemen,  with  Gyles  Romaen,  pp.  21,  23,  45. 
and  other  occupiers  of  the  contrey  as       4to.  15!)7. 


THE    BAPTISTS.  lxXV 

imposer  or  executor  of  the  church's  law,  is  an  invasion  of  the 
rights  of  the  flock  of  Jesus,  a  breach  of  the  statutes  of  the 
only  Lawgiver,  and  a  denial  of  his  all-sufficient  authority. 
Then  also,  the  conscience  must  be  free  to  follow  the  instruc- 
tions of  the  Heavenly  Monitor,  and  none,  not  even  idolaters, 
blasphemers,  nor  papists,  be  driven  to  the  sacred  temple  by 
threats  or  violence,  since  faith  is  the  gift  of  God,  not  pro- 
ducible by  human  power ;  nay,  less  likely  to  be  produced, 
when  physical  force  is  resorted  to.  Then  too,  lastly,  the 
unconscious  babe  must  be  denied  admittance  to  the  church, 
since  both  reason  and  scripture  refuse  to  recognize  the  unin- 
telligent infant  as  possessed  of  that  faith,  which  can  only 
follow  hearing  the  word  of  God,  being  also  unable  to  declare 
a  hearty,  free,  and  willing  acceptance  of  the  salvation  it 
proclaims. 

It  would  be  an  interesting  inquiry,  did  time  and  occasion 
permit,  how  far  this  instinct  of  liberty  influenced  the  doctrinal 
peculiarities  of  the  baptists,  and  led  to  the  maintenance  of  a 
dogma,  so  often  the  theme  of  reproach  against  them,  the 
freedom  of  the  will  against  the  absolute  predestination  of  the 
reformed.  Liberty  of  conscience,  and  the  free  action  of  the 
will,  are  evidently  nearly  allied ;  and  perhaps  influenced,  by 
some  of  those  intangible  and  mental  sympathies  which  often 
affect  opinion,  or  by  the  antagonist  position  in  which  they 
found  themselves  on  other  points  to  those  who  persecuted 
them,  they  were  probably  led  to  adopt  a  mode  of  stating  this 
"  vexed  question  "  somewhat  distant  from  the  true  mean. 

We  have,  however,  discovered  the  real  cause  of  the  unani- 
mous hostility  these  despised  people  encountered.  Papist 
and  protestant,  puritan  and  Brownist,  with  one  consent,  laid 
aside  their  differences,  to  condemn  and  punish  a  sect,  a 
heresy,  an  opinion,  which  threw  prostrate  their  favourite 
church,  their  politico-ecclesiastical  power,  their  extravagant 
assumptions,    and   their   unscriptural   theories.      The   papist 

/2 


lxxvi  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION 

abhorred  them :  for,  if  this  heresy  prevailed,  a  church  hoary 
with  age,  laden  with  the  spoils  of  many  lands,  rich  in  the 
merchandize  of  souls,  must  be  utterly  broken  and  destroyed. 
The  protestants  hated  them :  for  their  cherished  headship, 
their  worldly  alliances,  the  pomps  and  circumstances  of  a 
state  religion,  must  be  debased  before  the  kingly  crown  of 
Jesus.  The  puritans  defamed  them :  for  baptist  sentiments 
were  too  liberal  and  free  for  those  who  sought,  a  papal 
authority  over  conscience,  and  desired  the  sword  of  the 
higher  powers  to  enforce  their  "holy  discipline"  on  an 
unconverted  people.  The  Brownist  avoided  them  :  for  their 
principle  of  liberty  was  too  broad,  and  to  this  they  added  the 
crime  of  rejecting  the  "  Lord's  little  ones  "  from  the  fold. 

Thus  the  baptists  became  the  first  and  only  propounders  of 
"  absolute  liberty,  just  and  true  liberty,  equal  and  impartial 
liberty."7  For  this  they  suffered  and  died.  They  proclaimed 
it  by  their  deeds,  they  propagated  it  in  their  writings.  In 
almost  every  country  of  Europe,  amid  tempests  of  wrath, 
stirred  up  by  their  faith,  and  their  manly  adherence  to  the 
truth,  they  were  the  indefatigable,  consistent,  primal  apostles 
of  liberty  in  this  latter  age.  We  honour  them.  We 
reverence  them.  And  humble  though  they  be,  we  welcome 
the  republication  of  the  first  English  writings  which  sounded 
the  note  of  freedom  for  conscience  as  man's  birthright,  in  this 
land  of  the  free ;  they  are  sanctified  by  holy  tears  and  the 
martyr's  blood.8 

7  Locke  on  Toleration,  p.  31,  4to.  ed.       science,    published     by    the    Hanserd 

8  See    Tracts   on    Liberty    of    Con-       Knollys  Society.    8vo.  1846. 


lxxvii 

SECTION   V. 
THE    INDEPENDENTS. 

A  brief  notice  will  suffice  to  dispose  of  a  recent  effort 
to  deprive  the  baptists  of  the  honour  which  is  their  due,  and 
to  claim  for  others  the  commendation  which  is  their  historic 
right.  "We  shall  not  hesitate,"  says  Mr.  Hanbury,  "to 
attribute  to  Jacob's  pen,  what  constitutes  the  boast  and  glory 
of  our  denomination  as  independents,  the  very  first  compo- 
sition ever  addressed  to  authority,  restricted  to  the  particu- 
larly interesting  object  expressed  in  its  title  in  these  terms : 
— f  An  humble  supplication  for  toleration  and  Liberty  to 
enjoy  and  observe  the  ordinances  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  the 
administration  of  his  churches,  in  lieu  of  human  constitu- 
tions.' "  9 

The  "  restricted  "  claim  made  in  this  supplication,  would 
not  have  required  our  attention,  had  the  historian  of  the 
independents  been  content  therewith ;  but  as  in  the  face  of 
every  accessible  historical  fact  he  has  questioned  the  "  equity 
of  the  claim  "  asserted,  among  others,  by  Dr.  Price,  in  his 
History  of  Nonconformity,1  that  the  baptists  "must  be 
regarded  as  the  first  expounders,  and  most  enlightened 
advocates  of  the  best  inheritance  of  man" — liberty  of  con- 
science ;  it  becomes  necessary  to  vindicate  their  equitable 
right  and  pre-eminence. 

We  propose,  therefore,  to  establish  the  three  following 
points:  —  1.  That  the  petition  in  question  did  not  emanate 
from  the  independents.     2.  That  its  contents  do  not  entitle 

9  Memorials  relating  to  the  Independents,  i.  225.  *  Vol.  i.  522. 


lxxviii  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

it  to  the  honourable  position  assigned  it.  3.  That  the 
Independents,  to  a  much  later  period,  were  not  the  advocates 
of  an  absolute,  true,  and  impartial  liberty. 

1.  From  whom  did  the  petition  for  toleration  emanate? 
On  the  accession  of  James  I.  to  the  crown  of  this  country, 
the  Puritans  made,  as  is  well-known,  several  attempts  to 
obtain  a  new  settlement  of  ecclesiastical  affairs.  The  ill 
success  of  the  Hampton  Court  conference  for  ever  crushed 
their  hopes  of  further  reformation,  and  was  followed  by  the 
immediate  deprivation  of  some  hundreds  of  godly  men. 
Among  these  was  Mr.  Henry  Jacob.  He  became  the  most 
active  of  those  ministers,  who  were  designated  by  Mr. 
Bradshawe,  another  of  them,  "  the  rigidest  sort  of  them  that 
are  called  Puritans." 2 

But  that  Mr.  Jacob  was  not  the  author  of  the  petition,  is 
evident  from  his  own  words.  For  thus  he  speaks  of  its 
author :  "  That  faithful  man  of  God,  whosoever  he  was,  that 
made  that  petition  to  the  king's  majesty  for  a  toleration  of 
our  way  and  profession,  with  peace  and  quietness  in 
England." 3  Still,  in  its  prayer  and  statements  he  heartily 
concurred,  and  frequently  referred  to  it  with  approbation. 
The  petition  is  signed  by  "  Your  majesty's  most  loyal,  faith- 
ful, and  obedient  subjects,  some  of  the  late  silenced  and 
deprived  ministers." 4  If  then  Mr.  Jacob  was  one  of  the 
subscribers,  which  he  probably  was,  he  and  the  petitioners 
were  Puritans,  and  not  Brownists  nor  independents. 

In  perfect  accordance  with  this  fact,  which  appears  on  the 
face  of  the  petition,  the  authorship  is  ascribed  to  the  Puritans 
by  the  writer  of  the  Supplication  to  king  James  in  1620.5 


2  English  Puritanism,  containing  the  5  "The  Puritans in  their  supplica- 

main  opinions  of,  &c,  printed,  1605.  tion,   printed  anno    1609.     Much  they 

3  An  Attestation,  &c,  p.  137.    1613.  write  for  toleration."   Tracts  on  Liberty 

4  P.  48,  edit.  1609.     See  also   Han-  of  Conscience,  pp.  222,223. 
bury,  i.  227. 


THE    INDEPENDENTS.  lxxix 

We  find,  moreover,  at  the  period  when  Mr.  Jacob  was  at 
Leyden,  in  Holland,  that  although  he  enjoyed  the  friendship 
of  Mr.  Robinson,  who  is  with  justice  regarded  as  the  parent 
of  modern  independency,  yet,  as  an  elder,  he  governed  a 
separatist  church,  "which  began  before  Mr.  Robinson,  and 
continued  after  him ,"  and  which,  without  doubt,  was  a 
prebyterian  church.6  Certain  it  is,  that  in  1613,  four  years 
after  the  date  of  the  petition  in  question,  Mr.  Jacob  held  to 
a  presbyterian  and  synodal  association  of  churches,  "  differ- 
ing," he  says,  "not  one  hair  from  Calvin  and  Beza,  touching 
the  substance  of  this  matter." 7  And  when  forming  his  con- 
gregation in  London,  in  1616,  he  consulted  not  with  the 
separatists,  nor  with  the  Brownists,  nor  with  the  Indepen- 
dents, but  with  certain  deprived  and  learned  puritans,  who 
expressed  their  approbation  of  his  design.8 

Other  circumstances  seem  to  lead  to  the  conclusion,  that 
the  church  established  by  Jacob  was  not  an  independent 
church.  From  a  letter,  dated  April  5,  1624,  about  the  time 
of  Jacob's  departure  for  Virginia,  addressed  by  Mr.  Robin- 
son to  some  other  church  in  London,  we  learn  that  it  was 
questioned  whether  Jacob's  church  was  a  true  church,  and  to 
be  recognized  as  such.  Mr.  Robinson  replies  in  the  affirma- 
tive, but  somewhat  doubtingly;  which  hesitation  could  not 
have  existed  had  it  been  in  communion,  or  governed  on  the 
same  principles,  with  his  own  church.9 

It  is  to  be  further  observed,  that  when,  in  1633,  Mr. 
Spilsbury  seceded  from  Jacob's  church,  it  being  then  under 
the  pastoral  care  of  Mr.  Lathorpe,  it  was  ranked  as  an 
independent  church,  as  it  continued  to  be  for  some  time 
after,  until,  during  the  pastorate  of  Mr.  Henry  Jessey,  it 

6  Cotton's    Way    of    Congregational  8  Neal.  i.  462. 

Churches,  p.  14,  edit.  1648.     Steven's  9  Treatise  on  the  Lawfulness  of  hear- 

Hist.  of  Scot.  Ch.  at  Rotterdam,  p.  310.       ing  ministers  of  the  Church  of  England. 

7  An  Attestation,  &c.  pp.  13,  97.  Printed  1634;  at  the  end. 


lxXX  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

became  a  baptist  community.  Now  we  are  informed  by  Mr. 
Kiffin,  that  Mr.  Spilsbury's  secession  was  owing  not  merely  to 
a  change  of  views  on  the  subject  of  baptism,  but  "that  the 
congregation  kept  not  to  their  first  principles  of  separation." 
Thus,  before  it  became  an  independent  church,  it  held 
certain  "  principles  of  separation,"  which  could  have  been 
none  other  than  those  of  the  more  rigid  puritans,  to  whom 
Mr.  Jacob,  about  1609,  belonged.1 

It  is,  however,  clear,  that  the  petition  for  toleration  is  a 
puritan  production,  and  that  if  Mr.  Jacob  united  in  its 
prayer,  as  he  certainly  concurred  in  its  sentiments,  it  was  not 
as  an  independent,  but  as  a  puritan.  Whatever  cause  there 
may  be  for  glorying  in  this  matter,  the  "glory"  and  the 
"  boast "  must  evidently  belong  to  that  party. 

2.  But  do  the  contents  of  the  petition  bear  out  the  pre- 
eminence assigned  to  it?  It  is  admitted  by  Mr.  Hanbury 
"that  Mr.  Jacob  did  not  on  his  side  dissert  upon,  or  argue 
for  religious  liberty,  in  the  entire  breadth  of  it."2  Where, 
then,  is  the  basis  of  Mr.  Hanbury 's  claim,  since  the  baptists 
did  "dissert  upon,  and  argue  for  religious  liberty"  in  its 
fullest  extent,  as  the  "  Tracts  on  Liberty  of  Conscience " 
clearly  show.  Can  a  prayer  for  a  restricted  toleration  be  set 
by  the  side  of  a  demand  for  entire  liberty  of  conscience,  as 
of  equal  worth  ?  Yet  such  was  the  toleration  in  question ; 
for  thus  it  prays  : — "  First,  the  liberty  of  enjoying  and  prac- 
tising the  holy  ordinances  enacted  and  left  by  the  Lord, 
for  the  perpetual  direction  and  guiding  of  his  churches. 
Secondly,  an  entire  exemption  from  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
said  prelates  and  their  officers.  And  lastly,  the  happiness 
to  live  under  the  command  and  charge  of  any  of  your 
subordinate  civil  magistrates,  and  so  to  be  for  our  actions 
and  carriage  in  the  ministry  accountable  unto  them."  s 

1   Wilson,  i.  11.     Crosby,  i.  1 18.  3  An  Humble  Supplication,  Sec.  p.  8. 

■  Hanbury,  i.  225,  note.  Hanbury,  i.  225. 


THE    INDEPENDENTS.  lxxxi 

Again :  "  We  acknowledge  no  other  power  and  authority 
for  the  overseeing,  ruling,  and  censuring  of  particular 
churches,  how  many  soever  in  number,  in  the  case  of  their 
misgovernment,  than  that  which  is  originally  invested  in 
your  royal  person,  and  from  it  derived  to  such  of  your  laity 
as  you  shall  judge  worthy  to  be  deputed  to  the  execution  of 
the  same  under  you.  So  as  the  favour  humbly  solicited  by 
us  is,  that  whereas  our  Lord  Jesus  hath  given  to  each  par- 
ticular church  this  right  and  privilege,  viz.,  to  elect,  ordain, 
and  deprive  her  own  ministers,  and  to  exercise  all  other  parts 
of  lawful  ecclesiastical  jurisdiction  under  him,  your  majesty 
would  be  pleased  to  take  order,  as  well  that  each  particular 
church  that  shall  be  allowed  to  partake  in  the  benefit  of  the 
said  toleration,  may  have,  enjoy,  and  put  in  execution  and 
practise,  this  her  said  right  and  privilege,  as  that  some  your 
subaltern  civil  officers  may  be  appointed  by  you  to  demand 
and  receive  of  each  church  a  due  and  just  account  of  their 
proceedings."  4 

Having  thus  provided  for  secular  interference  with  the 
church's  affairs,  the  petitioners  proceed  to  limit  to  themselves 
the  toleration  desired.  "  We  do  humbly  beseech  your  majesty 
not  to  think,  that  by  our  suit  for  the  said  toleration,  we  make 
an  overture  and  way  for  toleration  unto  papists,  our  suit  being 
of  a  different  nature  from  theirs,  and  the  inducements  thereof 
such,  as  cannot  conclude  aught  in  favour  of  them, .whose 
head  is  antichrist,  whose  worship  is  idolatry,  whose  doctrine 
is  heresy,  and  a  profession  directly  contrary  to  the  lawful 
state  and  government  of  free  countries  and  kingdoms." 5 

For  such  a  "  restricted "  toleration  the  papists  had  peti- 
tioned the  sovereign  at  an  earlier  period.  The  language  of 
the  puritans  is  but  the  counterpart  of  the  following,  which 
issued   five   years  before  from   these   excepted    religionists. 

1  Ibid.  pp.  13,  14.     Hanbury,  i.  226.         5  Ibid.  p.  20,     Hanbury,  ibid. 


lxXXli  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

"  We  think,"  say  the  catholics,  "  that  the  permission  of  the 
liberty  we  entreat,  is,  neither  in  reason  of  state,  a  thing 
hurtful,  nor  by  the  doctrine  of  protestants  unlawful. — But 
the  puritan,  as  he  increaseth  daily  above  the  protestant  in 
number,  so  is  he  of  a  more  presuming,  imperious,  and  hotter 
disposition  and  zeal,  ever  strongly  burning  in  desire  to  reduce 
all  things  to  the  form  of  his  own  idea,  or  imagination  con- 
ceived, and  therefore,  by  discourse  or  reason,  not  unlike  to 
attempt  the  overthrow  of  the  protestant,  and  bring  the  king- 
dom, especially  the  ecclesiastical  state,  to  a  parity,  or  popular 
government,  if  the  catholic  were  once  extinguished ;  and  to 
extinguish  him  no  mean  more  potent,  than  to  forbid  and 
punish  the  exercise  of  his  religion."6  A  singular  and 
pre-eminent  toleration  truly,  which  would  involve  an 
exterminating  and  internecine  war  between  papist  and 
puritan ! 

Mr.  Jacob  has,  however,  left  us  no  room  to  doubt  the 
nature  of  the  toleration,  he  and  his  brother  puritans  so 
earnestly  pressed.  Thus,  in  1606,  he  writes  it  down  as  a 
proposition  they  were  willing  to  maintain,  against  the  pre- 
lates ;  that  "  civil  magistrates  ought  to  be  the  overseers  of 
provinces  and  dioceses,  and  of  the  several  churches  therein. 
And  it  is  their  office,  and  duty,  enjoined  them  by  God,  to 
take  knowledge  of,  to  punish  and  redress,  all  misgoverning  or 
ill-teaching  of  any  church,  or  church  officer."7  Again,  in  the 
year  1613,  when  he  is  supposed  by  Mr.  Hanbury  to  have 
joined  the  Independents,  he  writes,  "  Though  we  affirm  that 
the  church  government  is  independent,  and  immediately 
derived  from  Christ,  yet  we  affirm  also,  that  the  civil  magis- 
trate is  even  therein  supreme  governor  civilly.  And  though 
nothing  may  be  imposed  on  the  Christian  people  of  a  congre- 


\    Supplication   to   the  King,  &C  7  A  Christian  and  Modest  Offer  of  a 

pp.  4,  9.    4to.  1604.  Conference,  &c  pp.  2,  3.     Jto.  1606. 


THE    INDEPENDENTS.  lxxxiii 

gation,  against  their  wills,  by  any  spiritual  authority — for  so 
only  we  intend — yet  we  affirm  withal,  that  the  civil  magis- 
trate may  impose  on  them  spiritual  matters,  by  civil  power ; 
yea,  whether  they  like  or  dislike,  if  he  see  it  good.  This  we 
all  gladly  acknowledge."  And  he  refers  to  the  petition  in 
question  for  proof.8 

Elsewhere  Mr.  Jacob  says,  "We  grant  that  civil  magistrates 
may,  and  sometimes  ought,  to  impose  good  things  on  a  true 
church,  against  their  wills,  if  they  stiffly  err,  as  sometimes 
they  may."  9  And  in  his  latest  production,  when  engaged,  in 
the  year  1616,  in  forming  his  church  in  London,  he  makes 
use  of  the  following  language,  in  the  Confession  of  Faith  he 
then  put  forth  to  clear  the  "  said  Christians  from  the  slander 
of  schism,  and  undutifulness  to  the  magistrate."  "  We  believe 
that  we,  and  all  true  visible  churches,  ought  to  be  overseen, 
and  kept  in  good  and  peace,  and  ought  to  be  governed, 
(under  Christ)  both  supremely  and  also  subordinately  by 
the  civil  magistrate  ;  yea,  in  causes  of  religion  when  need 
is.  By  which  rightful  power  of  his,  he  ought  to  cherish 
and  prefer  the  godly  and  religious,  and  to  punish  as  truth 
and  right  shall  require,  the  untractable  and  unreasonable. 
Howbeit,  yet  always  but  civilly.  And  therefore  we  from 
our  heart,  most  humbly  do  desire  that  our  gracious  sovereign 
king  would  himself  as  far  as  he  seeth  good,  and  further  by 
some  substituted  civil  magistrate  under  him,  in  clemency  take 
this  special  oversight  and  government  of  us,  to  whose  ordering 
and  protection  we  most  humbly  commit  ourselves."1  To 
this  confession  is  added  another  supplication  for  toleration,  in 
which  he  humbly  prays  his  majesty  to  appoint  some  civil 
magistrate,  "  qualified  with  wisdom,  learning,  and  virtue,  to 

6  An  Attestation  of  many  learned,  l  Anno  Domini,  1616.    A  Confession 

&.c.  pp.  115 — 117.  and  Protestation,  ice.  not  paged.     Han- 

'  An  Attestation,  &c=  p.  316,  edit.  bury,  i.  301. 
I(il3. 


lxxxiv  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

be  overseer  for  their  more  peaceable,  orderly,  and  dutiful 
carriage,  both  in  our  worshipping  God,  and  in  all  other  our 
affairs."  2 

The  admission  then  of  Mr.  Hanbury,  so  fatal  to  his  claim, 
that  Mr.  Jacob  did  not  "  dissert  upon,  nor  argue  for  religious 
liberty,  in  the  entire  breadth  of  it,"  is  established  by  unde- 
niable evidence  ;  and  we  are  now  entitled  to  ask,  Is  the  clear, 
explicit,  and  broad  statement  of  the  doctrine  of  religious 
liberty,  in  the  treatises  published  in  the  years  1614  and  1615 
by  the  baptists,  to  be  regarded  as  of  less  value  than  the 
meagre  and  individual  desire  of  toleration  which  this  petition, 
and  these  extracts  from  the  writings  of  its  supposed  author, 
exhibit  ?  A  toleration  founded  on  the  narrowest  basis ;  to 
be  enjoyed  only  by  the  body  that  sought  it;  and,  at  the 
same  time,  allowing,  nay,  asking  for  a  compulsory  and  forced 
interference  with  its  religious  rights  and  duties,  and  those  of 
others  also  ?  Can  this  be  "  the  glory  and  boast "  of  the 
"  independent  denomination,"  for  which  Mr.  Hanbury  thinks 
it  so  "  commendable  to  strive  for  the  pre-eminence  ?  "  The 
baptists  may  relinquish  such  a  glory;  while  they  hold  in 
equity,  that  perfect  liberty  of  conscience,  to  be  enjoyed  by 
all  men,  excelleth  in  glory ;  and  for  this  they  strive. 

3.  But  lastly,  we  have  to  show,  that  the  independents  to 
a  yet  later  period  were  not  the  advocates  of  an  absolute,  full, 
and  impartial  liberty.  If  Mr.  Jacob  was  a  puritan,  then  are 
they  deprived  of  the  honour  in  question  ;  or  if  an  independent, 
the  evidence  fails  to  substantiate  the  claim.  It  now  remains 
to  examine  one  other  witness,  of  whose  relation  to  that  body 


2  A  Confession,  &c.  Hanbury,  i.  306.  unto  them  this  favour,  that  peaceably 

The  petition  of  1609  is  also  referred  to  and  quietly  they    may   worship    God," 

approvingly  in  this  Supplication,  and  in  &c.     And    in   the  margin   reference  is 

other  places  of  the  Confession.     Jacob's  made  thus  : — "  Anno  1 G09.     An  Hum- 

Hrorda  are,  "  Beseeching  you,  as  in  effect  We  Supplication."     Jacob  thus  again,  in 

they  formerly  did,  so  now  again,  to  give  16 16,  identifies  himself  with  the  puritans. 


THE    INDEPENDENTS.  lxxXV 

there  can  be  no  doubt,  and  whose  name  would  be  an  honour 
and  a  praise  to  any  community  who  could  call  him  theirs. 
Mr.  John  Robinson  had  been  a  puritan.  He  separated  on 
holy  principles  from  a  church,  which  he  thought  to  be 
antichristian,  and  in  exile  nobly  endured  and  laboured  for 
the  cause  of  God.  He  was  the  spiritual  parent  of  many, 
who,  in  future  years,  were  to  be  called  the  pilgrim  fathers ; 
whose  deeds  form  the  early  annals  of  a  mighty  people.  But 
while  on  many  points  he  arrived  at  juster  and  truer  views 
than  the  puritans :  on  their  doctrine  of  coercion  in  matters  of 
religion  he  made  little  or  no  advance.  In  the  year  1610,  in 
the  earliest  of  his  productions,  he  thus  explicitly  asserts  its 
propriety — "That  godly  magistrates  are  by  compulsion  to 
repress  public  and  notable  idolatry,  as  also  to  provide  that 
the  truth  of  God,  in  his  ordinance,  be  taught  and  published 
in  their  dominions,  I  make  no  doubt ;  it  may  be  also,  it  is  not 
unlawful  for  them  by  some  penalty  or  other,  to  provoke  their 
subjects  universally  unto  hearing  for  their  instruction  and 
conversion ;  yea,  to  grant  they  may  inflict  the  same  upon 
them,  if,  after  due  teaching,  they  offer  not  themselves  unto 
the  church."  And  again,  he  says,  "That  religions  actions 
may  be  punished  civilly  by  the  magistrate,  which  is  the  pre- 
server of  both  tables,  and  so  to  punish  all  breaches  of  both, 
especially  such  as  draw  with  them  the  violation  of  the  positive 
laws  of  kingdoms,  or  disturbances  of  common  peace."  3 

It  was  in  the  year  succeeding  this  publication  of  Mr.  Robin- 
son, 1611,  that  the  baptists  issued  a  "Confession  of  Faith, 
with  certain  conclusions,"  in  which  they  assert,  "  that  the  ma- 
gistrate is  not  to  meddle  with  religion,  or  matters  of  con- 
science, nor  compel  men  to  this  or  that  form  of  religion, 
because  Christ  is  the  King  and  Lawgiver  of  the  church  and 
conscience."      This  assertion  was  questioned  by  Robinson, 

3  Justification  of  Separation,  pp.  242,  243,  153,  edit.  1639. 


lxXXvi  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

and  in  1614  he  published  a  work  in  which  it  was  denied. 
The  baptists  were  not  slow  to  answer,  and  in  the  next  year 
replied  to  his  objections,  endeavouring  to  prove,  "that  no 
man  ought  to  be  persecuted  for  his  religion."  For  this  piece, 
and  the  sentiments  of  Mr.  Robinson,  we  must  refer  to  the 
volume  lately  published.4 

These  views  of  Mr.  Robinson  were  not  accidental,  they 
constituted  a  part  of  his  religious  belief.  Hence  in  nearly 
all  his  works,  from  the  first  in  1610  to  the  last  in  1625,  we 
find  the  same  sentiments  maintained. 

In  his  Observations,  Divine  and  Moral,  he  says,  "  Men 
are  for  the  most  part  minded  for  or  against  Toleration  of 
Diversity  of  Religions,  according  to  the  conformity  which  they 
themselves  hold,  or  hold  not,  with  the  country  or  kingdom 
where  they  live.  Protestants,  living  in  the  countries  of  papists, 
commonly  plead  for  toleration  of  religion ;  so  do  papists  that 
live  where  protestants  bear  sway;  though  few  of  either, 
specially  the  clergy,  as  they  are  called,  would  have  the  other 
tolerated  where  the  world  goes  on  their  side."  He  then  remarks 
on  the  sentiment  of  the  fathers  on  this  point,  and  says  that 
the  saying  of  a  the  wise  king  of  Poland  seemeth  approvable, 
that  it  is  (  one  of  the  three  things  which  God  hath  kept  in  his 
own  hands,  to  urge  the  conscience  this  way,'  and  to  cause  a 
man  to  profess  a  religion  by  working  it  first  in  his  heart."  5  He 
next  reviews  two  or  three  objections,  and  comes  "  Lastly,  to 
that  of  the  father,  'that  many  who  at  first  serve  God  by  com- 
pulsion, come  after  to  serve  him  freely  and  willingly.'  I 
answer,"  he  says,  "that  neither  good  intents,  nor  events, 
which  are  casual,  can  justify  unreasonable  violence :  and, 
withal,  that  by  this  course  of  compulsion  many  become 
atheists,  hypocrites,  and  familists,  and  being  at  first  con- 
strained to  practise  against    conscience,    lose  all   conscience 

4  Tracts  on   Liberty  of  Conscience,  5  See  Tracts,  &c.  p.  21  6. 

pp.  8.5—180. 


THE    INDEPENDENTS.  lxXXvii 

afterwards Yet,  do  I  not  deny  all  compulsion  to  the 

hearing  of  God's  word,  as  the  means  to  work  religion,  and 
common  to  all  of  all  sorts,  good  and  bad ;  much  less  excuse 
civil  disobedience,  palliated  with  religious  shows  and  pre- 
tences ;  or  condemn  convenient  restraint  of  public  idolatry  ; 
so  as  this  rule  of  reason  holds  its  place,  viz.,  that  * the  bond 
between  magistrate  and  subject  is  essentially  civil,'  but  reli- 
gious accidentally  only,  though  eminently."6 

Our  last  quotation  shall  be  taken  from  his  most  important 
work; — a  work  issued  as  a  formal,  and  therefore  carefully 
digested  statement  of  his  belief  on  all  points  of  faith  and 
godliness.  It  is  "  A  just  and  necessary  Apology  of  certain 
Christians,  no  less  contumeliously  than  commonly  called 
Brownists  or  Barrowists."  It  was  first  published  in  Latin, 
in  1619,  and  afterwards  translated  by  himself,  and  printed  in 
1625.  The  latter  edition  is  before  us.  In  the  chapter  on 
civil  magistracy  he  thus  writes — "  We  believe  the  very  same, 
touching  the  civil  magistrate,  with  the  Belgic  reformed 
churches,  and  willingly  subscribe  to  their  confession ;  and  the 
more,  because  what  is  by  many  restrained  to  the  Christian 
magistrate,  they  extend  indefinitely  and  absolutely  to  the 
magistrate  whomsoever."  In  commenting  on  this  enlarged 
duty  of  the  magistrate,  and  which  we  will  presently  produce, 
he  says,  "The  magistrate,  though  a  heathen,  hath  power,  as  the 
minister  of  God  for  the  good  of  his  subjects,  to  command  and 
procure  in  and  by  good  and  lawful  manner  and  means,  what- 
soever appertains  either  to  their  natural  or  spiritual  life,  so 
the  same  be  not  contrary  to  God's  word :  upon  which  word  of 
God.  if  it  beat,  God  forbid,  that  the  Christian  magistrate 
should  take  liberty  to  use,  or  rather  abuse  his  authority  for 
the  same." T    That  is  to  say,  the  magistrate,  whether  Christian 

6  Observations    Divine    and    Moral,  7  Ch.  xi.  pp.  56,   57.     Hanbury,  i. 

&c,  pp.  49— 51,  edit.  1625.  Hanbury,  384.  The  last  part  of  this  passage  is 
i-  436.  omitted  by  Mr.  Hanbury. 


lxxXVlii  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

or  heathen,  has  a  natural  and  unchangeable  right,  neither 
diminished  nor  increased  by  his  profession  of  Christianity,  to 
command  the  truth,  that  is  of  course  such  truth  as  Mr. 
Robinson  may  approve,  but  no  other.  And  inasmuch  as 
many  persons  may  not  be  able  to  receive  that  truth,  then 
must  they  abide  the  infliction  of  some  undefined  penalty  for 
their  unbelief. 

We  now  turn  to  the  Belgic  confession  for  the  full  and 
authentic  expression  of  Mr.  Robinson's  creed  upon  this  point. 
The  reader  will  be  then  fully  prepared  to  appreciate  the 
"  equity  of  the  claim  "  made  by  the  advocate  of  the  indepen- 
dents. After  confessing  the  divine  institution  of  magistrates, 
to  punish  the  wicked  and  defend  the  good,  it  thus  proceeds — 
"  Moreover  it  is  their  duty,  not  only  to  be  careful  to  preserve 
the  civil  government,  but  also  to  endeavour  that  the  ministry 
may  be  preserved,  that  all  idolatry  and  counterfeit  worship  of 
God  may  be  clean  abolished,  that  the  kingdom  of  antichrist 
may  be  overthrown,  and  that  the  kingdom  of  Christ  may  be 
enlarged.  To  conclude,  it  is  their  duty  to  bring  to  pass,  that 
the  holy  word  of  the  gospel  may  be  preached  everywhere, 
that  all  men  may  serve  and  worship  God  purely  and  freely, 
according  to  the  prescript  rule  of  his  word."  And  they 
finish  with  the  following  damnatory  clause: — "Wherefore 
we  condemn  the  anabaptists,  and  all  those  troublesome  spirits, 
who  do  reject  higher  powers  and  magistrates,  overthrow  all 
laws  and  judgments,  make  all  goods  common,  and  to  conclude, 
do  abolish  and  confound  all  those  orders  and  degrees,  which 
God  hath  appointed  among  men  for  honesty's  sake."8 

It  is  then  most  conclusively  shown,  that  the  petition  of 
1609  fails  to  sustain  the  assertion  of  Mr.  Hanbury,  being 
puritan  in  its  origin,  and  unworthy  of  the  commendation 
bestowed  upon  it ;  and  that  the  independents,  as  such,  in  the 

8  An  Harmony  of  the  Confessions,  mony  of  the  Confessions,  p.  483,  edit. 
&c.    p.  588,  edit.   1586.     Hall's  Har-       1842. 


THE    INDEPENDENTS.  lxxxix 

person  of  their  founder,  did  not  understand,  up  to  the  period 
of  his  death  in  1626,  the  rights  of  conscience. 

We  may  here  close  our  defence  of  the  claim  of  "  priority 
boasted  of  by  some  modern  baptists;"  a  claim,  however, 
advanced  and  established,  not  in  the  spirit  of  boasting,  but 
on  the  ground  of  truth  and  historic  fact.  Our  forefathers 
asserted  the  inalienable  right  of  all  men,  Jew  and  Gentile, 
papist  and  puritan,  infidel  and  believer,  to  serve  God,  to  obey 
the  statutes  of  the  Lord  Jesus  in  his  sanctuary,  and  to  act  as 
each  one's  conscience  might  dictate ;  they  desired  not  to  be 
tolerated,  but  to  be  free.  Evidence  can  be  adduced  that  the 
Independents  reached  not  this  high  ground  of  truth  and 
liberty  until  a  much  later  period ;  and  that  even  in  the  times 
of  the  Commonwealth,  while  many  were  favourable  to  a 
toleration,  they  refused  to  allow  an  unrestricted  liberty  in 
matters  of  faith.  Enough  is,  however,  presented  to  show 
the  fallacy  of  the  claim  made  by  Mr.  Hanbury,  and  the 
injustice  of  withholding  from  the  authors  of  the  tracts  above- 
mentioned,  the  pre-eminent  honour  of  having  issued  "the 
very  first  composition  ever  addressed  to  authority,"  not 
restricted  to  toleration,  but  demanding  an  absolute,  full,  and 
impartial  liberty. 

The  baptists  stood  alone,  amidst  all  their  contemporaries, 
for  liberal  and  enlightened  views.  Calumny,  contumely, 
reproach,  and  persecution,  failed  to  turn  them  from  their 
high  and  holy  calling.  Freedom  to  worship  God,  as  each 
for  himself  thought  right,  even  when  others  might  think  it 
heresy,  they  nobly  struggled  for  to  the  end.  They  were  the 
first  to  pioneer  the  way  through  the  forests  of  human  super- 
stitions, the  morasses  of  human  inventions,  and  the  barriers 
of  human  usurpations.  A  forlorn  hope,  they  assailed  the 
huge  fortress  of  human  tyranny.  But  God  was  their  refuge 
and  their  strength.  They  made  the  costly  outlay  for  that 
inheritance   whose  rich  and  pleasant   fruit  we  daily  gather. 

9 


XC  HISTORICAL    INTRODUCTION. 

On  their  behalf,  on  our  own  behalf,  that  the  stigma  of  ingrati- 
tude may  not  attach  to  us,  nor  those  worthy  ones  be  deprived 
of  their  honourable  and  blood-bought  renown,  we  most 
emphatically,  re-assert  their  claim,  and  adopt,  with  an  assured 
confidence  in  its  truth,  the  admirable  language  of  Dr.  Price — 
"  It  belonged  to  the  members  of  a  calumniated  and  despised 
sect,  few  in  number  and  poor  in  circumstances,  to  bring  forth 
to  public  view,  in  their  simplicity  and  omnipotence,  those 
immortal  principles  which  are  now  universally  recognized  as 
of  divine  authority  and  universal  obligation.  Other  writers 
of  more  distinguished  name  succeeded,  and  robbed  them  of 
their  honour ;  but  their  title  is  so  good,  and  the  amount  of 
service  they  performed  on  behalf  of  the  common  interests  of 
humanity  is  so  incalculable,  that  an  impartial  posterity  must 
assign  to  them  their  due  meed  of  praise."  y 

9  Hist,  of  Nonconformity,  i.  522, 523. 


INTRODUCTORY   NOTICE. 


For  the  singularly  interesting  and  unique  picture  of  the 
formation,  growth,  and  persecutions  of  the  church  of  Christ, 
now,  and  for  nearly  two  centuries  past,  meeting  in  Broad- 
mead,  Bristol,  we  are  indebted  to  one  of  its  ruling  elders, 
Mr.  Edward  Terrill.  As  a  young  man,  and  while  serving 
his  apprenticeship  to  a  schoolmaster  in  that  city,  he  was 
wont  to  attend  the  ministry  of  Mr.  Thomas  Ewins,  then 
pastor  of  this  rising  community.  The  account  of  his  con- 
version he  has  left  recorded,  and  it  is  now  transferred  to 
the  following  pages.  At  the  age  of  twenty-four  he  was 
baptized,  and  united  to  the  church.  From  that  time  he 
became  identified  with  all  its  proceedings  and  tribulations, 
taking  the  most  lively  interest  in  its  concerns,  and  labouring 
most  assiduously  for  its  prosperity  and  peace.  In  all  things 
showing  himself  a  pattern  of  good  ivorks  :  in  doctrine  shotting 
uncorruptness,  gravity,  sincerity,  sound  speech,  that  cannot  be 
condemned.     Tit.  ii.  7,  8. 

In  the  month  of  February,  1666-7,  he  was  chosen  a  ruling 
elder,  and  discharged  that  office  with  pious  energy,  and 
with  the  divine  blessing,  till  his  death  in  1685.  By  his 
marriage  in  the  year  1668  (Wednesday,  29th  April),  with 
Mrs.  Dorothy  Heath,  the  daughter  of  Mr.  William  Listun, 
mentioned  on  page  9  and  elsewhere,  he  became  possessed 
of  very  considerable  property,  which  was  generously  devoted 
to  the  defence  of  his  suffering  brethren,  and  to  the  main- 


XC11  INTRODUCTORY    NOTICE. 

tenance  of  the  cause  of  God,  during  the  series  of  persecutions 
which  befell  the  church.  By  a  deed  executed  in  1679  he 
consecrated  a  large  part,  if  not  the  whole,  of  his  estates,  to 
the  education  of  young  men  for  the  ministry. 

The  subject  of  an  educated  ministry  had  for  several  years 
been  agitated  among  the  baptists,  and  it  is  probable  that 
Mr.  Terrill  was  confirmed  in  his  intention  and  desire  for  an 
able  and  learned  body  of  pastors,  by  a  circular  letter  issued 
in  1675,  by  several  of  the  London  ministers,  inviting 
brethren  to  London,  "  with  a  view  to  form  a  plan  for  an 
orderly  standing  ministry."  Among  the  subscribers  were 
the  learned  Daniel  Dyke,  William  Collins,  Henry  Forty, 
and  William  Kiffin.  The  result  of  this  convention  is  un- 
known; but  at  the  General  Assembly  in  1689  a  fund  was 
formed  for  this  purpose,  the  church  under  the  pastoral  care 
of  Mr.  Andrew  GifFord  sending  thirty  pounds.  Several 
years  had  yet  to  elapse  before  Mr.  Terrill's  bequests  could 
become  available  for  the  pressing  wants  of  the  churches. 

"  For  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  propagation  of  the  gospel 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  for  the  true  love  and  affection 
he  hath  and  boareth  unto  the  congregation  of  which  he  is 
a  member,"  Mr.  Terrill  empowers  his  trustees  to  devote  the 
proceeds  of  his  estates  to  the  maintenance  of  "  a  holy  learned 
man,  well  skilled  in  the  tongues,  viz.  Greek  and  Hebrew, 
and  doth  own  and  practise  the  truth  of  believers'  baptism, 
as  a  pastor  or  teacher  to  the  congregation."  Three  half 
days  in  the  week  is  the  tutor  to  employ  in  the  instruction 
of  some  young  men,  not  exceeding  twelve,  members  of 
any  baptized  congregation  in  or  about  Bristol,  for  two 
years  at  the  most.  Ten  pounds  yearly,  to  the  amount  of 
forty  pounds,  may  be  granted  to  any  student,  whose  friends 
are  unable  to  support  him ;  if  none  such  appear,  to  be  lent 
Lo  members  of  the  congregation.  From  a  reserved  portion 
of  hi.-  property,  he  further  directs  the  trustees  to  pay  £100 


INTRODUCTORY    NOTICE.  XC111 

yearly  to  the  pastor  thus  engaged,  and  £13  yearly  to  each 
of  four  students ;  the  surplus  to  be  for  the  benefit  of  the 
poor  of  the  congregation. 

From  various  causes,  especially  the  unfitness  of  the  first 
tutor,  Mr.  Jope,  these  liberal  bequests  did  not  come  into 
effective  operation  until  the  pastorate  of  Mr.  Bernard  Fosket 
in  1720.  Mr.  Caleb  Jope  had  settled  at  Broadmead  about 
1714,  for  the  purpose  of  fulfilling  the  wishes  of  Mr.  Terrill, 
and  from  some  old  account  books  it  appears  that  he  was 
paid  from  this  fund  from  1714  to  1719;  but  no  records  exist 
of  the  proceedings  of  the  church  at  that  time,  and  it  is 
doubtful  whether  any  steps  were  taken  to  obtain  any  young 
men  to  educate.  However,  for  several  years,  ten  poor  mem- 
bers, a  deaconess,  and  the  overseers  appointed  under  the 
deed,  were  regularly  paid. 

The  admission  of  the  first  pupil  under  Mr.  Fosket 's  tuition 
is  thus  recorded: — "Upon  the  5th  of  November,  1720, 
being  the  day  appointed  for  the  meeting  of  the  trustees  and 
overseers  of  Mr.  Terrill's  estate,  Mr.  Thomas  Rogers,  a 
member  of  Mr.  Gifford's  church,  was  proposed  as  a  person 
suitable  for  a  student  under  the  direction  of  brother  Fosket, 
according  to  Mr.  Terrill's  deed,  and  it  was  requested  that 
he  might  have  ten  pounds  for  his  maintenance  for  one  year, 
as  the  deed  directs.  Agreed  he  should  have  the  liberty  of 
learning,  and  referred  the  other  part  to  the  church's  con- 
sideration." The  benefaction  was  subsequently  allowed. 
On  the  same  day,  the  feoffees  and  trustees  directed  the  profits 
of  the  estate  to  be  paid  to  the  sole  use  of  Mr.  Fosket; 
under  the  protest,  however,  of  Mr.  Samuel  Hunt,  one  of 
the  overseers,  that  Mr.  Fosket  "is  not  the  pastor  such 
as  the  will  appointed  to  have  Mr.  Terrill's  gift."  A  Mr, 
Peter  Ivitterell  was  the  then  recognized  pastor  of  the 
church.  In  the  year  1770,  the  Bristol  Education  Society 
was  formed  through  the  exertions  of  Dr.  Caleb  Evans,  as 


XC1V  INTRODUCTORY    NOTICE. 

an  additional  aid  to  Mr.  Terrill's  bequests :  with  which  it 
continues  united. 

But  Mr.  Terrill's  deep  interest  in  the  welfare  of  the 
church,  and  the  prosperity  of  Christ's  kingdom,  also  appears 
in  the  preparation  of  the  narrative  of  its  varied  history 
during  the  times  of  the  Commonwealth  and  the  Restoration, 
and  now,  for  the  first  time,  printed.  From  the  incidental 
reference  on  page  47.  it  would  appear  that  he  commenced 
the  record  about  the  year  1672.  This  he  continued  from 
time  to  time,  carefully  collecting  and  arranging  his  materials, 
till  in  1678  his  handwriting  disappears  from  the  manuscript. 
It  was  doubtless  at  his  suggestion  that  the  brethren  Boden- 
ham  and  Davis,  were,  in  1675,  desired  every  Monday  to 
collect  and  record  the  "affronts  and  abuses"  of  the  preceding 
week;  which  record,  it  is  probable,  is  the  "Waste  Book" 
referred  to  by  the  unknown  continuator  of  Mr.  Terrill's 
narrative,  who  takes  up  the  history  on  page  420,  and  which 
was  afterwards  continued  from  the  same  "  Waste  Book " 
by  Mr.  Bernard  Fosket,  from  page  426  to  the  end,  with 
the  exception  of  a  few  pages  at  the  close.  It  must  be 
matter  for  regret  that  this  original  document  is  lost,  since 
it  contained  a  fuller  account  of  the  persecutions  which,  even 
in  its  abridged  form,  is  of  deep  and  thrilling  interest.  From 
several  slight  indications  we  deem  it  most  likely  that  much 
of  it  was  written  by  Mr.  Terrill. 

The  series  of  letters  written  by  Mr.  Hardcastle  during 
his  second  imprisonment,  may  perhaps  owe  their  origin  to 
the  necessary  seclusion  of  Mr.  Terrill  from  the  public 
assemblies  of  the  church,  on  account  of  the  numerous 
warrants  which  were  issued  for  his  arrest.  During  Mr. 
Hardcastle's  first  imprisonment,  Mr.  Terrill  by  his  gifts 
supplied  the  pastor's  absence;  but  now  he  too  must  suffer 
in  the  same  righteous  cause,  and  the  church  be  deprived  of 
his   ministerial   labours.     These  letters    are    preserved    in   a 


INTRODUCTORY    NOTICE,  XCV 

separate  book,  and  apparently  in  the  handwriting  of  Mr. 
Terrill.  The  originals  were  perhaps  destroyed  to  prevent 
their  falling  into  the  hands  of  the  persecutors,  and  their 
employment  as  a  means  of  further  annoyance  to  the  pastor. 

The  late  Mr.  Isaac  James,  classical  tutor  of  the  Bristol 
Academy,  gave,  in  the  year  1821,  several  lectures  on  the 
history  of  Broadmead,  in  the  vestry  of  the  meeting-house, 
to  the  illustration  of  which  he  had  devoted  much  time  and 
attention.  For  this  purpose  he  made  a  lengthened  abstract 
of  these  records,  intending  to  add  to  it  the  results  of  his 
investigations  into  the  history  of  dissent  in  Bristol.  This 
manuscript  forms  the  basis  of  the  work  published  in  1840 
by  Mr.  J.  G.  Fuller,  under  the  title  of  "The  Rise  and 
Progress  of  Dissent  in  Bristol,  chiefly  in  relation  to  the 
Broadmead  Church,"  &c.  12mo. 

For  the  manuscript  employed  in  printing  the  present 
volume,  the  arrangement  of  the  letters,  and  copies  of  the 
several  documents,  the  Council  of  the  Hanserd  Knollys 
Society  is  indebted  to  J.  M.  Chandler,  Esq.,  a  deacon  of 
the  church.  Its  records  he  has  laboriously  investigated  and 
arranged,  having  purposed  to  publish  a  work  that  should 
embody  these  papers;  but  which  the  previous  publication 
of  Mr.  Fuller's  work  prevented.  The  editor  has  also  to 
express  his  obligations  to  him,  for  the  assistance  he  has  ren- 
dered during  the  progress  of  the  work  through  the  press. 

Scrupulous  attention  has  been  paid  to  the  accuracy  of  the 
work,  and  its  entire  conformity  to  the  originals.  Both  the 
manuscript  copy  and  the  proofs  have  been  compared  with 
them.  No  changes  in  the  text  have  been  permitted,  except 
in  the  orthography,  and  the  use  of  the  plural  form  of  the 
verb  for  the  singular,  wThich  not  unfrequently  occurs.  All 
explanations  or  additions  are  invariably  placed  in  brackets. 
There  are  many  references  in  the  margin  of  the  original  to 
the  contents  of  the   text,   in   the  handwriting   of  the  late 


XCV1  INTRODUCTORY    NOTICE. 

Dr.  Ryland,  an  example  of  which  may  be  seen  in  the 
lithographed  passage  relating  to  Mr.  John  Canne  ;  these  have 
been  omitted,  as  they  form  no  part  of  the  original  record. 
The  same  eminent  minister  of  Jesus  Christ  also  continued  in 
the  heading  of  every  page  the  Greek  and  Hebrew  words 
with  which  Mr.  Terrill  began  the  manuscript,  but  discon- 
tinued by  him  in  the  account  of  the  year  1675.  Siryypa^?? 
'EkkXtjcxiV.    "W  15N 

The  chronology  of  the  author  is  preserved  throughout,  as  it 
was  thought  that  the  occasional  interspersion  of  the  modern 
mode  of  computing  the  commencement  of  the  year  would  be 
sufficient  to  correct  any  misapprehension,  while  the  integrity 
of  the  record  would  be  maintained.  The  few  obsolete  words 
occurring  have  been  retained,  the  explanations  being  added  in 
brackets,  with  one  or  two  exceptions  where  the  meaning 
could  not  be  discovered. 

The  almost  entire  absence  of  punctuation  in  the  original 
records  has  rendered  this  part  of  the  editor's  task  most 
anxious  and  laborious.  He  trusts,  however,  that  but  few 
instances  will  be  found  in  which  he  has  not  given  the  writer's 
meaning. 

The  fac-similes  accompanying  the  volume  will  give  a  correct 
idea  of  the  form  of  the  manuscript,  and  the  care  that  Mr. 
Terrill  took  in  composing  it.  The  autographs  are  interesting 
memorials  of  the  excellent  men  who  penned  them.  Although 
several  original  letters  of  Mr.  Vavasor  Powell  are  among 
the  papers,  in  none  does  he  sign  his  name  at  length;  his 
initials  only  can  be  given. 


THE     RECORDS 

OF 

A   CHURCH   OF    CHRIST. 


THE  RECORDS 


A   CHURCH   OF   CHRIST. 


God  who  at  sundry  times,  and  [in]  divert  manners  spake 
in  time  past  unto  the  fathers  by  the  prophets,  hath  in  these  last 
days  spoken  unto  us  by  his  Spirit,  by  his  word,  and  provi- 
dences, even  by  his  Son ;  whom  he  hath  appointed  heir  of  all 
things,  by  whom  also  he  made  the  world;1  this  God,  we  say, 
who  worketh  all  things  after  the  counsel  of  his  own  will,"  having 
according  to  his  determinate  purpose,  suffered  his  church  to 
be  carried  into  the  wilderness  of  antichristian  darkness,  as 
he  signified  and  foretold  by  his  servant  the  apostle  John, 
Rev.  xii.  6,  and  that  she  should  be  there,  and  prophesy  in 
sackcloth  1260  years: — towards  the  expiration  of  those  years 
it  seemed  good  to  our  gracious  God  and  Father,  through 
Jesus  Christ,  to  send  more  of  his  Holy  Spirit  into  the  hearts 
of  the  children  of  men  ;  that  they  began  more  openly  and 
professedly  to  seek  after  the  Lord,  and  to  shake  off  popish 
doctrines  in  King  Henry  the  Eighth's  days ;  and  [to  establish] 
reformation  of  worship  in  the  days  of  King  Edward  the 
Sixth,  of  blessed  memory ;  which  was  darkened  again  in  the 

1  Heb.  i.  1,  2.  2  Eph.  i  11. 

B    2 


4  THE    RECORDS 

reign  of  Queen  Mary,  who  burned  those  that  she  and  her 
prelates  knew  left  off  popery ;  under  whom  many  that  kept 
faithful  to  the  Lord,  according  to  their  light  received, 
suffered  martyrdom  through  fire. 

But  by  the  grace  of  the  Lord,  after  [that]  Christ,  in  these 
his  martyrs,  was  again  so  openly  and  grossly  crucified,  it 
pleased  our  heavenly  Father  that  reformation  in  worship  was 
again  carried  on  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  of  happy 
remembrance,  and  the  pope  wholly  cast  out,  as  having  no 
dominion  nor  superiority  in  England ;  so  that  the  power  of 
Rome  died,  and  the  papal  worship  thereof  languished : 
wherefore  in  the  reign  of  king  James,  the  popish  worship 
struggling  for  life,  it  thought  to  revive  again  by  treasons  and 
politic  contrivances. 

But  God,  of  his  infinite  grace,  continued  the  spirit  of 
reformation;  [so]  that  a  people  were  raised  up,  in  the  days 
of  King  Charles  the  First,  to  cast  off  the  scraps  of  church 
government  [left]  by  the  papal  hierarchy,  namely,  of  lordly 
bishops ;  because  that  it  was  directly  opposite  to  the  holy 
scripture  and  rule  of  true  worship.  For  they  did  lord  it 
over  God's  heritage,  and  thereby  did  manifest  themselves  to 
be  as  the  skirts  of  the  whore  of  Romish  Babylon ;  by  reason 
they  looked  not  after  the  pure  and  spiritual  worship  of  God, 
but  rested  in  the  relics  of  antichristian  forms  of  worship, 
by  unscriptural  officers,  called,  after  human  inventions, 
chancellors,  vice-chancellors,  deans,  archdeacons,  prebends, 
choristers,  registrars,  proctors,  apparitors,  &c.,3  not  like 
the  worship  instituted  by  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  recorded 
in  scripture ;    having   scarcely  the   form   of  godliness,    and 

3  ["  As  for  deans,  prebendaries,  par-  thought  to  allow  of  ecclesiastical  de- 
sons,  vicars,  curates,  archdeacons,  chan-  grees  not  known  nor  ever  heard  of  in 
cellors,  officials,  commissaries,  and  such  the  better  ages  of  former  times." — 
other  the  like  names,  which  being  not  Hooker,  Eccl.  Pol.  book  v.  sect.  78. 
found  in  holy  scripture,  we  have  been  Hanbury's  edit.  ii.  394.] 
thereby,    through    some    men's    error, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  O 

wholly  denying  the  power  thereof.  From  such  we  are  com- 
manded to  turn  away.  Under  whom  the  Spirit  of  God  in 
his  people  groaned,  and  were  in  pain  to  be  delivered ; 
earnestly  waiting  for  the  manifestation  of  the  sons  of  God ; 
but  instead  of  further  reformation,  nothing  but  profanation 
of  the  Lord's  day  [was  sanctioned],  and  a  book  of  sports  set 
forth  and  allowed,  against  which  the  Spirit  of  God  in  many 
of  his  people  testified.4 

Notwithstanding,  they  persisted  with  insultations  over 
the  appearance  of  God  in  any  that  would  not  run  with 
them  to  the  same  excess  of  riot,  superstition,  and  will- 
worship  ;  continually  putting  yokes  upon  the  necks  of  the 
disciples,  which  neither  they  nor  their  spiritual  fathers  were 
able  to  bear ;  insomuch  that  it  made  those  that  were  godly  to 
cry  mightily  unto  God,  under  those  heavy  pressures  and 
burdens  in  their  consciences,  and  against  those  Egyptian 
task-masters  that  began  to  make  their  burdens  heavier: 
citing  to  their  spiritual  courts  (so  called)  any  that  they  knew 
did  refrain  out  of  conscience  from  their  ceremonies,  and  not 
come  to  their  inventions  in  worship,  as  cringing  at  the  altar, 
bowing  at  the  name  of  Jesus,  imposing  the  cross,  and  divers 
other  innovations  wThich  came  in  again  apace,  after  the  began 
reformation,  and  the  carrying  of  it  on,  as  aforesaid ;  so  that 
those  whose  hearts  God  had  touched  would  get  together  and 
pray,  repeat  their  sermon-notes,  and  upon  the  Lord's  day 
would  carefully  sanctify  the  Christian  sabbath,  and  [perform] 


4  [May  24th,  1618,  King  James  set  any  such  harmless  recreations;  nor  from 

forth   a    declaration   to    this   effect : —  having  of  May-games,  Whitsun  ales  or 

"  That   for   his   good    people's    lawful  morris-dances,  and  setting  up  of  May 

recreations  his  pleasure  was,  that  after  poles,    &c."      When    this    declaration 

the  end  of  divine  service  they  should  "  was  brought  abroad,  it  is  not  so  hard 

not  be  disturbed,  letted,  or  discouraged  to  believe,  as  sad  to  recount,  what  grief 

from  any  lawful  recreations ;    such  as  and  distraction  thereby  was  occasioned 

dancing,    either    of    men    or    women,  in  many  honest  men's  hearts." — Fuller's 

archery  for  men,  leaping,  vaulting,  or  Church  Hist,  book  x.  sect.  iv.  c.  56.] 


b  THE    RECORDS 

other  such  acts  of  living  piety.  As  when  the)-  could  hear 
of  any  minister  that  did  savour  of  God,  or  of  the  power  of 
godliness,  they  would  flock  to  him  as  doves  to  the  windows ; 
like  babes  new  born  from  above,  desiring  the  pure,  sincere 
milk  of  the  word,  that  they  might  grow  thereby.  For 
which  they  were  branded  with  the  name  of  puritans ;  it 
being  an  old  trick  of  the  devil,  in  his  instruments,  to  cast 
some  reproachful  name  or  other  upon  the  servants  of  the 
Lord  in  all  ages :  Satan  envying  the  purity  of  that  Spirit  of 
holiness  that  God  poured  out  upon  the  reformers  of  religion, 
in  this  nation  of  England,  at  that  time.  Which  name  of 
puritans  was  the  common  term  of  derision  of  the  professors 
in  England,  from  about  the  year  of  our  Lord  1600,  to  the 
year  1640,  and  after;5  [even]  as  those  that  were  reformers 
before,  were  stigmatized  with  the  name  of  Brownist.  And 
in  other  parts  of  Europe,  those  that  God  had  stirred  up 
to  cast  off  popish  doctrines  and  worship,  and  whom  the  Lord 
enlightened  in  the  true  and  saving  doctrine  of  justification 
by  free  grace,  were  called  Waldenses,  Lutherans,  Calvinists, 
&c.  And  now,  at  this  time,  here  in  England,  they  were 
called  puritans. 

5  [The  name  puritan  seems  to  have  King  James,  in  1G01,  informs  us,  that 
originated  about  the  year  1580,  for  there  was  a  "sect  among  the  anabaptists 
about  that  date  we  find  the  nonconform-  that  were  called  puritans,  from  whence 
ists  of  Elizabeth's  reign  thus  addressing  the  precisians  of  our  kingdoms,  who, 
the  Privy  Council: — "We  pray  your  out  of  self-will  and  fancy,  refuse  to  con- 
good  lordships  to  give  us  leave  to  adver-  form  themselves  to  the  orders  of  our 
tise  you  how  the  adversary  very  cun-  church,  have  borrowed  their  name." — 
ningly  hath  new-christened  us  with  an  Works,  p.  371.  See  Ottius  de  Sect. 
odious  name,  to  the  end,  no  doubt,  that  Anab.  Browne's  first  work  was  pub- 
we  being  occupied  in  defence  of  our  lished  in  1582,  but  he  became  known 
innocency,  they  might  have  greater  as  the  leader  of  a  separate  party  about 
freedom  to  go  about  their  hateful  1580.  The  origin  of  the  term  puritan 
treacheries.  It  is  the  name  of  puritan-  would  thus  appear  to  be  simultaneous 
/«,//?  ;  we  detest  both  the  name  and  here-  with  that  of  Brownist. — Baillie's  Dis- 
sy  ;  it  ifl  a  compound  of  all  the  heresies  suasive,  p.  13.  Neal,  i.  245.] 
a  i<  in-said. — Parte  ef  a  Register,&c.p.l29. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  7 

And  indeed  the  Lord  did  pour  forth  of  the  purity  of  his 
Spirit  into  the  hearts  of  many,  that  made  them  to  walk  very 
holy,  harmless,  and  undefiled  in  their  day.  And  there  were 
raised  up  divers  holy  and  powerful  ministers  and  preachers, 
in  and  about  that  time,  in  this  nation ;  whereof  in  these  parts 
was  one  Mr.  Wroth,  in  Monmouthshire,  not  far  from  this 
city  of  Bristol,  who  for  the  powerfulness  and  efficaciousness 
of  his  preaching,  with  the  exemplary  holiness  of  his  life,  was 
called  the  apostle  of  Wales ;  for  the  papist,  and  all  sorts 
almost,  honoured  him  for  a  holy  man.6  By  his  ministry  it 
pleased  the  Lord  to  convert  many,  [so]  that  they  left  their 
sinful  courses  in  the  world ;  after  which  he  caused  them  to 
separate  from  the  worship  of  the  world,  and  gathered  them 
into  [the]  gospel  order  of  church  government.  Which  light 
of  theirs  began  to  shine  very  much  in  this  part  of  the  land.7 


6  [Mr.  Wroth  was  educated  at  Oxford, 
and  became  afterwards  rector  of  Llan- 
vaches,  in  Monmouthshire.  About  the 
year  1620  he  was  convinced  of  the 
vanity  of  ail  earthly  pleasures  by  the 
sudden  death  of  a  friend,  and  devoted 
himself  with  great  success  to  the  minis- 
try of  the  word.  For  refusing  to  read 
the  Book  of  Sports,  and  other  un- 
canonical  acts,  he  was  brought  under 
the  power  of  Laud,  in  the  High  Com- 
mission Court,  in  the  years  1634  and 
1635.— Thomas'  MSS.  p.  113.] 

7  [Mr.  Henry  Jessey,  "  in  Novem- 
ber, 1639,  was  sent  into  Wales  by  his 
congregation  to  assist  old  Mr,  Wroth, 
Mr.  Cradock,  and  others  in  their  gather- 
ing and  constituting  the  church  in 
Llanvaches,  which  afterwards  was  like 
Antioch,  the  mother  church  in  that 
Gentile  country  ;  being  very  famous  for 
her  officers,  members,  order,  and  gifts." 
—  Jessey's  Life,  &c,  pp.  9,  10. 

"  It  was   a  church   of  independents 


and  baptists  mixed,  yet  united  in  com- 
munion; they  had  two  ministers,  co- 
pastors — Mr.  Wroth,  an  independent, 
and  Mr.  William  Thomas,  a  baptist." 
—Thomas' MSS.  p.  113. 

The  following  is  from  a  paper  ad- 
dressed to  Mr.  TerrilHn  1675,  and  writ- 
ten by  Mr.  Henry  Morris,  a  Welsh 
minister,  giving  a  catalogue  of  the  then 
existing  churches  in  Wales.  Under  Mon- 
mouthshire he  writes  : — "  The  original 
nonconformist  church  gathered  in  this 
county  was  the  first  in  all  Wales  that  I 
can  hear  of ;  holy  and  reverend  Mr. 
Wroth  was  the  first  gospel  preacher 
here  ;  the  original  materials  of  a  church 
were  called  by  him,  and  cast  into  a 
mould  of  church  order,  according  to  the 
New  England  way,  in  his  days.  They 
were,  and  are  in  judgment  for  free  com- 
munion, uniting  saints  as  saints."  This 
interesting  document  is  in  the  Addenda, 
note  B.] 


8  THE    RECORDS 

About  the  same  time  God  raised  up,  in  this  city  of  Bristol, 
in  Philip's  parish,  one  Mr.  Yeamans,  a  zealous  preacher,  that, 
although  in  some  things,  he,  keeping  in  his  place,  did  observe 
according  to  the  time  that  then  was,  yet  would  not  suffer 
his  hearers  to  use  any  blind  devotion,  as  bowing  at  the  name 
of  Jesus,  and  ignorant  or  rather  customary  walking  and 
profaning  the  Sabbath;  to  whom  the  awakened  souls  and 
honest  minded  people  did  flock  very  much  to  hear  him. 
They  sat  under  his  light  near  twenty  years,  keeping  many 
fast  days  together  in  private  houses ;  namely,  at  one  William 
Listun's  house,  a  glover,  near  Lawford's  gate;  and  at  one 
Richard  Langford's  house,  a  house-carpenter  in  the  castle,  and 
sometimes  at  other  places.  But  at  those  two  places  they 
met  mostly ;  where  they  did  cry  day  and  night  to  the  Lord 
to  pluck  down  the  lordly  prelates  of  the  time,  and  the 
superstitions  thereof;  which  prayers  the  Lord  heard  and 
graciously  answered  in  his  time ;  although  first  he  suffered 
them  to  pass  through  sore  afflictions,  and  they  were  scattered 
up  and  down,  that  is  most  of  them.  The  chiefest  of  the  pro- 
fessors were  especially  driven  out  of  the  city,  from  their  houses 
and  habitations  ;  bringing  them,  as  it  were,  into  a  wilderness 
state,  passing  through  a  Red  Sea  of  blood  by  the  wars. 

But  before  that,  those  two  men  at  whose  houses  they  met, 
with  Mr.  Yeamans  aforesaid,  and  Mr.  Anthony  Kelly,  grocer, 
in  High-street,  Mr.  Robert  Haynes,  writing-schoolmaster,  in 
Corn-street,  and  Richard  Moone,  a  farrier  in  Wine-street,  and 
one  Goodman  Cole,  a  victualler,  or  butcher,  at  Lawford's 
gate  : — which  men,  as  some  of  the  chief  resolved  and 
watchful  professors  in  those  days,  they  did  use,  as  aforesaid, 
with  many  others,  to  keep  days  of  fasting  and  prayer  to- 
gether, during  Mr.  Yeamans's  time.  But  it  pleased  the 
Lord  to  gather  one  of  these  ripe  professors,  namely,  Mr. 
Kelly,  to  himself,  by  death.  He  was  one  that  feared  the 
Lord  above  many,  Neh.  vii.  2  ;    which  words  were  the  text 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  9 

from  whence  Mr.  Yeamans  preached  his  funeral  sermon. 
And  likewise  the  aforesaid  pious  and  laborious  minister,  Mr. 
Yeamans,  deceased  about  two  years  after.8 

Then  the  good  people  were  at  a  great  loss,  and,  like  sheep 
without  a  shepherd,  were  scattered,  and  knew  not  where  to 
hear.  But  sometimes  Mr.  Wroth,  before  mentioned,  would 
come  over,  who  lodged,  when  in  Bristol,  at  William  Listun's 
aforesaid ;  and  sometimes  others  of  the  reforming  ministers 
of  South  Wales,  as  Mr.  Symonds,  Mr.  Cradock,  Mr.  Henry 
Walter,  Mr.  Moston,  and  others,  would  come.9  But  when 
they  came  to  town,  the  professors  would  run  after  them  as 
hungry  souls  for  food.  By  reason  the  preachers  that  were  in 
the  city,  those  that  the  good  people  looked  upon  as  the  best, 
and  for  want  of  better  would  go  and  hear  them,  because  that 
in  some  things  they  seemed  religious  in  those  days,  yet  many 
times  a  great  deal  of  bitterness  came  from  them  against  the 
New  England  ministers,  and  those  that  went  thither.  For 
about  that  time,  abundance  of  the  godly  transported  them- 
selves into  that  part  of  America,  for  conscience'  sake,  to 
enjoy  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  Jesus  without  the  impositions 
of  men.  And  those  that  remained  here,  groaning  under  the 
same  burdens,  could  not  bear  to  hear  their  brethren  spoken 
against. 

About  that  time  Mr.  Hazzard,  the  minister,  being  come  to 

8  [Mr.  Yeamans  died  in  the  year  1633.  cised  a  beneficial  influence  on  the  mind 
Fuller's  Dissent  in  Bristol,  p.  15.]  of    Baxter,   who   met    with    them    at 

9  [Mr.  Symonds  was  afterwards  col-  Shrewsbury.  Baxter's  Narr.  p.  13. 
league  of  Mr.  Cradock,  at  Allhallows,  in  Mr.  Symonds,  Mr.  Cradock,  and  Mr. 
London,  whither  they  came  with  many  Walter  were  nominated  by  the  parlia- 
others  at  the  commencement  of  the  war.  ment,  in  1646,  with  some  others  from 
"He  preached  several  strange  things,  as  that  church,  six  in  all,  to  be  itinerary 
for  a  toleration  and  liberty  for  all  men  preachers  in  Wales.  Edwards's  Gan- 
to  worship  God  according  to  their  con-  graena,  part  III.  p.  242.  Mr.  Moston 
sciences,  and  in  favour  of  anti-paedo-  was  a  man  of  great  abilities,  and  highly 
baptism."  At  an  earlier  period,  in  esteemed  as  a  minister  of  God's  word.] 
1635,  these  two  excellent  men  had  exer- 


10  THE    RECORDS 

the  city,  a  young  preacher  that  minded  good  things,  and 
could  not  close  with  the  grossness  of  those  times,  did  some 
time  preach  at  Nicolas,  the  public  place,1  to  whom  the  good 
people  flocked.  But  he,  savouring  of  a  puritanical  spirit, 
preaching  against  the  debauchery  of  the  people  and  priests, 
was  worked  out  from  thence,  after  which  he  preached  some 
time  as  a  lecturer  at  Redcliff  public  place,  till  a  minister  was 
provided  by  those  that  had  the  donation.2 

Now  at  this  [time],  Mr.  Kelly  being  some  years  deceased, 
his  widow  persevered  in  godliness  ;  and  it  might  be  said  of 
her  as  of  Ruth  (iii.  11),  all  the  city  did  know  her  to  be  a 
virtuous  woman :  she  was  like  a  he-goat  before  the  flock.3 
For  in  those  days  Mrs.  Kelly  was  very  famous  for  piety  and 
reformation,  well  known  to  all,  bearing  a  living  testimony 
against  the  superstitions  and  traditions  of  those  days,  and 
she  would  not  observe  their  invented  times  and  feasts,  called 
holy  days.  At  which  time  she  kept  a  grocer's  shop  in  High- 
street,  between  the  Guilders'  Inn  and  the  High  Cross,4  where 
she  would  keep  open  her  shop  on  the  time  they  called 
Christmas  day,  and  sit  sewing  in  her  shop,  as  a  witness  for 
God  in  the  midst  of  the  city,  in  the  face  of  the  sun,  and  in 
the  sight  of  all  men ;  even  in  those  very  days  of  darkness, 
when,  as  it  were,  all  sorts  of  people  had  a  reverence  of  that 
particular  day  above  all  others.  And  as  the  apostle  saith,  1  Cor. 
viii.  7,  There  was  not  in  every  man  that  knowledge  ;  for  some, 
with  conscience  of  the  idol  unto  this  hour,  eat  it  as  a  thing  offered 
unto  an  idol,  and  their  conscience  being  weak  is  defiled.  But 
this  gracious  woman,  afterwards  called  Mrs.  Hazzard,  like  a 
Deborah  she  arose,  with  strength  of  holy  resolution  in  her 
soul  from  God,  even  a  mother  in  Israel,5  and  so  she  proved  : 

1  [i.  e.  the  parish  church.]  4  [The  high  cross  formerly  stood   at 

2  [This  was  in  1(539.     Fuller's  Dis-  the  upper  end  of  High-street.] 
sent,  &c.  p.  15.]  *  [Judges  v.  7.] 

3  [Jer.  I.  8.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  11 

because  she  was  the  first  woman  in  this  city  of  Bristol  that 
practised  that  truth  of  the  Lord,  which  was  then  hated  and 
odious,  namely,  separation. 

Now  the  way  that  the  Lord  took  to  bring  her,  with  some 
others  of  the  professors  in  this  city,  to  separate  from  the 
world,  was  this: — after  they  had,  as  before  rehearsed,  been 
awakened,  and  met  first  together  to  repeat  sermon-notes, 
then  they  kept  many  days  of  prayer  together,  as  a  company 
of  good  people,  sensible  of  the  sins  and  snares  of  their  day. 
In  doing  of  which  duties  they  began  to  be  more  humble  and 
spiritual,  and  grow  more  resolved  for  God,  heaven,  and  eternal 
happiness,  and  for  the  worship  of  God  according  to  holy  scrip- 
tures. So  that  when  they  had  been  conversant  in  these  duties 
and  pious  acts  of  hearing  the  best  men,  repeating  their  notes 
to  one  another,  whetting  them  on  their  hearts,  and  pray- 
ing them  over,  fasting  and  praying  together  frequently,  and 
had  thus  continued  in  so  doing  for  about  the  space  of  twenty 
years,  and  beginning  to  grow  somewhat  numerous  in  that 
work,  they  had  strength  to  begin  to  go  further,  for  the  path 
of  those  truths  of  building  up  one  another  was  well  beaten, 
though  they  had  not  a  little  reproach  cast  on  them  for  their  so 
meeting ;  because  the  world  and  wicked  men  vilified  them, 
saying,  they  met  together  in  the  night  to  be  unclean,  but  the 
Lord  knew  their  innocency ;  and  would  further  deride  them, 
as  that  they  had  women  preachers  among  them,  because  there 
were  many  good  women,  that  frequented  their  assembling, 
who,  when  they  should  upon  occasion  be  speaking  with  the 
world  about  the  things  thereof,  in  their  buying  or  selling, 
they  would  speak  very  heavenly ;  [then]  they  would  brand 
the  good  people  with  such  odiums,  and  the  like. 

Now  these  meetings  of  prayer,  &c.  as  aforesaid,  being 
so  frequent,  and  many  resorting  unto  them,  they  became 
such  a  light,  as  a  city  upon  a  hill  that  could  not  be 
hid,    especially    from    the    bishops,    who,    instead   of   being 


12  THE    RECORDS 

promoters  and  encouragers  in  such  acts  of  piety,  they 
were  the  obstructers,  and  could  not  bear  it,  for  they 
endeavoured  to  suppress  them.  And  God  made  his  people 
not  to  bear  them,  nor  their  ways  of  worship  ;  for  the  pro- 
fessors, meeting  one  day  in  a  house  in  High-street,  the  house 
was  assaulted  by  the  rude  multitude  and  seamen,  so  that 
they  broke  all  the  windows,  because  they  heard  there  was  a 
conventicle  of  puritans  ;  which,  to  them,  was  a  very  strange 
and  unheard  of  thing,  for  people  to  meet  in  a  church  with  a 
chimney  in  it,  as  they  termed  it. 

When  the  uproar  was  over,  some  of  the  good  people  com- 
plained to  the  mayor  of  the  city  that  then  was,  for  redress 
upon  some  that  were  chief.  But  instead  of  justice  being- 
done,  he  imprisoned  several  of  the  godly  that  met ;  where- 
upon some  of  them,  being  public,  active,  spirited  men,  drew 
up  a  petition  to  the  parliament  that  then  sat,  against  the 
mayor  of  the  city,  for  suffering  them  to  be  abused ;  and 
not  only  so,  but  imprisoning  them  when  they  complained. 
So  that  William  Listun  before-mentioned,  at  whose  house 
they  commonly  met,  went  to  London,  delivered  the  said 
petition  to  the  parliament,  who  then  favoured  the  righteous 
cause  of  God's  people  in  general,  and  well  resented  their  case 
in  Bristol,  which  so  startled  the  mayor  of  the  city,  that  it 
abated  the  execution  of  the  fury  of  his  spirit.  So  that  when 
the  said  Mr.  Listun  came  home  from  London,  it  was  noised 
about  the  city  that  he  would  be  imprisoned,  as  others  had  been, 
and  more  severely  dealt  with,  wherefore  he  was  persuaded 
not  to  be  seen  near  the  Tolzey  ;  but  the  next  day  he  went 
and  appeared  at  the  High  Cross,  standing  in  his  intimate 
acquaintance's  shop,  that  faced  the  Tolzey,  at  one  Mr. 
Hayncs's,  a  glover ;  where  standing,  a  Serjeant  was  sent, 
for  him  to  come  before  the  mayor,  who,  when  he  came, 
instead  of  sending  him  to  prison,  brought  him  home  to 
hie    house,    and    entertained    him   very    civilly,  asking    him 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  13 

what  he  did  at  London  ;  who  told  him,  he  went  thither  to 
petition  the  parliament  against  his  worship.  The  mayor 
said  he  should  first  have  come  to  him.  He  answered,  that 
they  had  by  others  made  their  complaint  to  him,  but  instead 
of  doing  them  justice,  they  were  imprisoned.  Yet,  notwith- 
standing this  his  bold  appearing,  and  telling  him  that  he  was 
the  person  that  petitioned,  he  was  discharged  without  further 
trouble. 

Thus  you  may  see  how  the  Lord  stood  by  them,  and  made 
them  stronger  and  stronger  to  go  forward  in  reformation,  as 
the  prelates  went  forward  in  their  innovations  and  supersti- 
tions. For  about  that  time  the  parsons  of  the  parishes  were 
commanded  that  their  communicants  should  kneel  at  the 
sacrament.  The  good  people,  especially  some  of  the  chief, 
and  those  afore-mentioned,  could  not  bear  it,  nor  would  not 
kneel,  but  sit ;  which  would  not  be  borne  by  the  parsons. 
Then  they  would  not  come  at  all  to  their  sacraments,  but 
at  such  times  would  get  out  of  town,  or  meet  together  if 
they  could  get  any  godly  minister  to  preach  to  them,  and 
some  would  rent  houses,  in  other  parishes,  where  they  could 
hear  of  a  good  man,  or  towards  Cathay,  out  of  the  bishop's 
diocese,  for  their  respective  families  to  spend  the  Lord's  day, 
going  thither  over  night,  on  the  last  day  of  the  week,  and 
the  second  day  return  again  to  their  shops,  and  places  where 
they  kept  their  trades  and  vocations  all  the  week.6 

6  [In  the  year   1631   the  bishop  of  craft   on    holy   days,   especially  during 

Bristol  issued  articles  of  inquiry  for  his  divine  service  ;  whether  schismatics  were 

diocese,  some  of  which  were  to  the  fol-  admitted  to  communion  ;  whether  any 

lowing  effect: — Whether  Sundays  and  married    women    refused    to   come    to 

holy  days  were  kept  according  to  the  church  after  confinement;  whether  there 

book  of  Common  Prayer  ;  whether  the  are  any  private  assemblies,  or  conventi- 

householders,  or  some  one  of  their  fami-  cles,  in  the  parish  ;  whether  there  be  any 

lies,  attended  the  church  on  Wednesdays  that   come   to   hear  sermons,   but  not 

and    Fridays  ;    whether   they    bow   or  common   prayer  ;  whether  any  impugn 

kneel  at  the  mention  of  the  name  of  the  ceremonies,  the  articles  of  religion, 

Jesus  ;    whether  any  used  his  manual  and  speak  against  them.     "Articles  to 


14  THE    RECORDS 

Thus  they  shitted,  up  and  down,  for  some  years,  when  the 
clergy  began  to  be  high.  About,  and  in  this  time,  the  good 
people  persuaded  Mrs.  Hazzard,  Kelly  that  then  was,  to  be 
married  to  Mr.  Hazzard,  the  minister  aforesaid ;  [to]  whom, 
at  his,  and  the  importunity  of  the  good  people,  she  was 
married ;  who,  after  some  time,  being  troubled  by  the  parson 
of  the  parish  where  they  lived,  in  High-street,  because  Mrs. 
Hazzard  would  not  conform,  and  had  openly,  in  the  presence 
of  the  congregation,  gone  forth  in  the  midst  of  his  sermon, 
when  she  heard  him  begin  to  bring  in  another  innovation,  viz. 
[when]  he  began  to  assert  that  pictures  and  images  might  be 
used ;  when  she  heard  that,  away  she  went  forth  before  them 
all,  and  said  she  would  hear  him  no  more,  nor  never  did  to  this 
day  ;  for  that,  together  with  not  kneeling  as  aforesaid,  trouble 
came  on,  and  they  knew  no  way  to  escape  the  utmost  rigour 
of  his  envy,  because  their  spiritual  courts  were  so  busy. 
Whereupon  she  thought  of  taking  a  house  in  RedclhT-street, 
for  their  family  to  spend  the  Lord's  day,  that  they  might  be 
out  of  the  parish,  as  before  she  had  done  in  Phillip's  parish, 
that  they  might  have  the  benefit  of  hearing  Mr.  Yeamans,  in 
her  former  husband's  time  and  his.  And  as  Mr.  Hazzard  and 
his  wife  were  stepped  out  of  doors  into  the  street  to  go  to  take 
a  house,  behold,  providentially,  the  Lord  sent  a  woman,  that 
came  to  them  in  the  street,  and  told  them  [that]  the  minister7 
of  'TEwins  [St.  Ewins]  parish  was  deceased,  and  that  the 
people  of  the  parish  had  chosen  him  to  be  their  minister.  So 
in  some  short  time  he  was  settled  there.8 

Thus  God  provided  [for]  them  the  parsonage  of  'TEwins, 

be  enquired  of,   and   answered   at  the  tered  till  1643.      In  the  early  part  of 

fourth  visitation  of  the  Rt.  Rev.  Father  1639  he  was  supplying  RedclirT  church, 

in  God,  Robert,  by  God's  divine  Provi-  which  led  to  the  desire,  on  the  part  of 

dence,  Lord  Bishop  of  Bristol.  1631."]  Mrs.  Hazzard,  of  obtaining  a  residence 

7  [A  Mr.  Thomas  G;iwen.]  in  that  parish;  a  plan  obviated  by  the 

8  [Mr. Hazzard  wasappointed  preacher       appointment    of    her    husband   to   St. 
at   St.  Ewins  in  163.0,  where  he  minis-       Ewins.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  15 

with  the  house  for  the  minister,  and  a  benefit  besides,  which 
she  looked  upon  as  an  eminent  answer  of  prayer,  having  often 
prayed  that  God  would  find  out  some  way  to  deliver  them. 
And  she  had  many  times  used  this  expression  : — "  Lord,  hast 
thou  never  a  little  corner  to  hide  us  from  the  rage  of  man?"  And 
a  little  house  it  was  that  God  gave  them,  when,  by  that  pro- 
vidence, they  were  succoured  themselves,  and  many  others  also ; 
for  they,  using  it  only  [on]  Lord's  days,  they  entertained  some- 
times two  or  three  families  together,  at  one  time,  that  came  to 
the  city,  bound  for  New  England;9  where  they  abode  until 
they  were  ready,  or  if  they  waited  for  a  wind.  So  the  Lord, 
by  them,  made  their  house  as  an  hospital  for  his  people  in  their 
peregrination.  And  when  it  was  empty  of  them,  at  other 
times,  several  good  women  would  come  out  of  other  parishes, 
and  be  brought  to  bed  there  at  their  time  of  lying-in,  to  be 
in  Mr.  Hazzard's  parish,  to  avoid  the  ceremonies  of  their 
churching,  the  cross,  and  other  impositions  that  most  of  the 
parsons  of  other  parishes  did  burden  them  withal  that  were 
delivered  within  their  precincts. 

Thus  the  Lord  went  before  his  people  by  his  providences, 
which  things  set  them  at  a  further  distance  from  the  forms  of 
the  world's  worship ;  for  the  consciences  of  the  good  people 
(were  heavy-laden,  having,  as  aforesaid,  so  long  sat  under 
those  burdens  of  men's  inventions  in  worship,)  began  to  be 
very  weary. 

Then  it  pleased  the  Lord  to  stir  up  some  few  of  the  pro- 
fessors of  this  city,  to  begin  to  lead  the  way  out  of  Babylon — 
the  corrupt  wrorship,  and  to  separate  from  them,  and  not  so 
much  as  come  near  any  of  their  superstitions — viz.  five  persons 
began  to  go  further,  and  scrupled  to  hear  common  prayer ; 


9  [About  the  year   1634   or   1635,  sands  of  them  did  flee  away,  to  join 

"when  the  yoke  of  episcopal  persecution  themselves  to  the  American  churches." 

in   England  became   so   heavy  on  the  Baillie,s     Dissuasive,    &c.    p.    55.  ed. 

necks  of  the  most  godly,  many  thou-  1646.] 


16  THE    RECORDS 

even  four  men  and  one  woman,  namely,  one  Goodman 
Atkins,  a  countryman  of  Stapleton,  two  miles  from  Bristol, 
also  one  Goodman  Cole,  a  butcher,  without  Lawford's  Gate, 
with  one  Richard  Moone,  a  farrier,  in  Wine-street,  and  one 
Mr.  Bacon,  a  young  minister,  together  with  Mrs.  Hazzard 
aforesaid.  These  persons  went  out  from  hearing  common 
prayer,  not  knowing  whither  they  went;  but  at  the  command  of 
God,  2  Cor.  vi.  17,  they  went  out,  as  it  is  said  of  Abraham, 
Heb.  xi.  8. 

But  before  Mrs.  Hazzard  could  get  out  from  that  of  hearing 
common  prayer,  she  had  a  very  sore  conflict  in  her  spirit, 
because  her  husband  did  read  that,  according  to  the  necessity 
of  hisplace,  though  he  would  not  administer  the  sacrament 
to  all  the  parish,  and  many  other  things  in  conscience  he 
could  not  do.  For  her  temptation  lay  here,  that  she  must 
hear  her  husband ;  for  it  would  be  of  ill  report  if  she  should 
forbear,  and  a  bad  example  unto  others  if  she  did  refrain  and 
not  go.  But  at  last,  one  Lord's  day,  in  the  morning,  it  was 
very  much  on  her  spirit  not  to  go,  but  then  the  temptation 
aforesaid  appears,  and  comes  in,  saying,  she  must  not  neglect 
that  [duty]  of  being  present  when  common  prayer  was  read, 
seeing  her  husband  was  the  preacher ;  which  reasoning  did, 
as  it  were,  force  her  to  go.  (Then  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
steps  in,  and  stands  in  the  way.)  As  she  was  going,  she 
had  some  strong  doubts  that  made  her  turn  back,  and  she 
returned,  being  on  the  stairs,  into  her  chamber  again,  and 
opening  her  bible  to  read,  happened  upon  that  place  in 
Rev.  xiv.  9,  10,  11,  If  any  man  worship  the  beast  and  his 
image,  and  receive  his  mark  in  his  forehead,  or  in  his  hand,  the 
same  shall  drink  of  the  wine  of  the  wrath  of  God,  which  is 
poured  out  without  mixture  into  the  cup  of  his  indignation,  and 
he  shall  he  tormented  with  fire  and  brimstone  in  the  presence  of 
the  holy  angels,  and  in  the  presence  of  the  Land) ;  and  the  smoke 
of  their  torment  ascendeth  up  for  ever  and  ever :   and  they  have 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  17 

no  rest  day  nor  night,  who  worship  the  beast  and  his  image,  and 
whosoever  receiveth  the  mark  of  his  name,  or  print,  as  she  said 
it  was  in  her  old  book ;  and  yapayfxa  may  be  so  translated, 
print,  or  stamp.  This  struck  such  terror  into  her  soul,  that 
she  dreaded  to  go ;  and  thereupon,  presently,  without  ad- 
mitting, or  hearkening  to  any  more  reasoning,  she  resolved, 
in  the  strength  of  the  Lord,  never  to  go  more  to  hear  common 
prayer.  Thus  the  Spirit  of  Christ  in  her  soul  was  stronger 
than  Satan  and  antichrist :  making  her  to  fear  sin,  and  will- 
ingly to  obey  the  voice  of  the  Lord  in  the  holy  scriptures. 

The  Lord  having  thus  convinced  them  of  the  dangerous 
state  of  all  such  that  worshipped  the  beast,  or  his  image,  or 
any  thing  that  had  his  print,  whether  publicly  or  plainly  to 
be  seen  as  in  the  forehead  ;  or  that  did  it  more  secretly, 
receiving  the  impression,  though  but  in  a  hand,  that  they 
should  be  the  subjects  of  his  wrath,  it  did  both  awaken  them 
to  look  about,  and  scrutinously  to  make  search  after  the 
primitive,  scriptural,  and  instituted  worship  of  the  Lord, 
and  also  it  did  strengthen  them  with  fear  and  holy 
trembling,  to  take  up  holy  resolutions  to  follow  the  Lord; 
giving  up  themselves  to  him  to  walk  before  him  all  the  days 
of  their  lives  in  his  ways,  and  joining  together,  in  the  fear 
of  the  Lord,  to  separate  from  the  worship  of  the  times. 

Anno  1640. 

And  thus  the  Lord  led  them  by  his  Spirit  in  a  way 
and  path  that  they  knew  not,  having  called  them  out  of 
darkness  into  his  marvellous  light  by  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord. 
So  that  in  the  year  of  our  for  ever  blessed  Redeemer,  the 
Lord  Jesus  (1640)  one  thousand  six  hundred  and  forty,  those 
five  persons,  namely  Goodman  Atkins  of  Stapleton,  Goodman 
Cole,  a  butcher  of  Lawford's  Gate,  Richard  Moone,  a  farrier 
in  Wine  Street,  and  Mr.  Bacon,  a  young  minister,  with  Mrs. 

c 


18  THE    RECORDS 

Hazzard,  at  Mrs.  Hazzard's  house,  at  the  upper  end  of 
Broad  Street,  in  Bristol,  they  met  together,  and  came  to  a 
holy  resolution  to  separate  from  the  worship  of  the  world 
and  times  they  lived  in,  and  that  they  would  go  no  more  to 
it.  And  with  godly  purpose  of  heart  [they]  joined  them- 
selves together  in  the  Lord;  only  thus  covenanting,  That 
they  would,  in  the  strength  and  assistance  of  the  Lord, 
come  forth  of  the  world,  and  worship  the  Lord  more 
purely,  persevering  therein  to  their  end. 

Thus  they  having  engaged  themselves  to  the  Lord,  and 
one  to  the  other,  to  walk  before  him  according  to  his  word, 
they  would  go  to  hear  common  prayer  no  more;  but  after 
the  common  prayer  was  over  in  the  morning,  when  the  psalm 
was  singing,  they  would  go  in  to  hear  Mr.  Hazzard  preach. 
Thus  they  did  on  the  mornings  of  the  Lord's  day,  but  in  the 
afternoons  they  met  by  themselves,  and  so  built  up  one 
another.  At  their  beginning  they  met  usually  at  Mr. 
Hazzard's,  and  sometimes  at  Mr.  Bacon's,  in  Lewin's  Mead. 

Shortly  after  this,  on  a  time  called  Easter,  because  Mr. 
Hazzard  could  not  in  conscience  give  the  sacrament  to  the 
people  of  the  parish,  he  went  out  of  town,  and  took  that 
season  to  visit  his  kindred  at  Lyme.  And  at  that  juncture  of 
time  the  providence  of  God  brought  to  this  city  one  Mr. 
Canne,  a  baptized  man;  it  was  that  Mr.  Canne  that  made 
notes  and  references  upon  the  bible.  He  was  a  man  very 
eminent  in  his  day  for  godliness,  and  for  reformation  in 
religion,  having  great  understanding  in  the  way  of  the  Lord. 

When  Mrs.  Hazzard  heard  that  he  was  come  to  town  she 
went  to  the  Dolphin  Inn,  and  fetched  him  to  her  house,  and 
entertained  him  all  the  time  he  stayed  in  the  city ;  who 
helped  them  very  much  in  the  Lord,  he  being  a  man  skilful 
in  gospel  order.  Like  unto  Aquila,  he  taught  them  the  way 
of  the  Lord  more  perfectly,  and  settled  them  in  church 
order,  and  showed  them  the  difference  betwixt  the  church'  of 


yfd^nrcL 


y 


*?? 


<Lj 


^tZ/njej  ^ 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  19 

Christ  and  antichrist,  and  left  with  them  a  printed  book 
treating  of  the  same,  and  divers  printed  papers  to  that 
purpose.1  So  that  by  this  instrument,  Mr.  Canne,  the  Lord 
did  confirm  and  settle  them  ;  showing  them  how  they  should 
join  together,  and  take  in  members.  And  he  exhorted  them 
to  wait  upon  God  together,  and  to  expect  the  presence  of 
God  with  those  gifts  they  had,  and  to  depart  from  those 
ministers  that  did  not  come  out  of  anti-christian  worship. 
And  when  he  had  stayed  some  time  in  the  city  he  departed. 

And  on  a  Lord's  day  following  he  preached  at  a  place 
called  Westerleigh,  about  seven  miles  from  this  city ;  and 
many  of  the  professors  from  hence  went  thither  to  hear  him, 
with  Mrs.  Hazzard,  willing  to  enjoy  such  a  light  as  long  as 
they  could ;  where  he  had  liberty  to  preach  in  the  public 
place,  called  a  church,  in  the  morning,  but  in  the  afternoon 
could  not  have  entrance.  The  obstruction  was  by  a  very 
godly  great  woman,  that  dwelt  in  that  place,  who  was  some- 
what severe  in  the  profession  of  what  she  knew,  hearing 
that  he  was  a  baptized  man,  by  them  called  an  anabaptist, 
which  was  to  some  sufficient  cause  of  prejudice  ;  because  the 
truth  of  believers'  baptism  had  been  for  a  long  time  buried, 
yea,  for  a  long  time  by  popish  inventions,  and  their 
sprinkling  brought  in  the  room  thereof.  And  [this  prejudice 
existed]  by  reason  [that]  persons  in  the  practice  of  that  truth 

1  [Mr.  Canne  published  in   1632,  at  He  returned  shortly  after  his  visit  to 

Amsterdam,  "  The  Way  to  Peace,  &c,  Bristol  to  Amsterdam,  where  he  pub- 

at  the  reconciliation  of  certain  brethren,  lished  "  Syon's  Prerogative  Royal,  to 

between  whom  there  had  been  former  prove   that  every  particular  congrega- 

differences."     He  calls  himself "  Pastor  tion    hath    from    Christ    absolute    and 

of  the  ancient  English  church  in  Am-  entire  power  to  exercise  in  and  of  her- 

sterdam,"   in    1634,   when   he   printed  self  every  ordinance  of  God,  and  is  an 

"  A  Necessitie  of  Separation  from  the  independent  body,  not  standing  under 

Church  of  England,"  which,  probably,  any  other  ecclesiastical  authority  out  of 

is  the  book  here  referred  to.     Between  itself." — Amsterdam,  1641,   12mo.  pp. 

that  date  and  1640  he  must  have  be-  64.     See  also  Baillie's  Dissuasive,  pp. 

come  a  baptist,  as  stated  in  the  text.  15,  107.] 

C2 


20  THE    RECORDS 

of  baptism  were  by  some  rendered  very  obnoxious ;  because, 
about  one  hundred  years  before,  some  beyond  the  sea,  in 
Germany,  that  held  that  truth  of  believers'  baptism,  did,  as 
some  say,  do  some  very  irregular  actions ;  of  whom  we  can 
have  no  true  account  what  they  were  but  by  their  enemies ; 
for  none  but  such  in  any  history  have  made  any  relation 
or  narrative  of  them. 

And  truly,  if  all  shall  be  taken  for  truth  that  the  enemies 
of  God's  people,  in  their  own  understanding,  do  write,  what 
will  they  not  say  of  the  most  pure  and  best  reforming 
people,  under  any  of  the  denominations  whatsoever.  Wit- 
ness the  many  pamphlets  written  by  the  adversaries,  that  do 
vilify  those  friends,  the  good  people  called  the  presbyterians, 
and  independents.  That  if  there  should  be  none  else  penned 
by  the  godly,  to  take  off  those  gross  calumnies  and  untruths 
cast  upon  the  profession  of  the  most  sincere  professors  now 
in  these  times,  would  not  the  next  age  be  stumbled  thereby, 
and  almost  abhor  profession  that  separates  from  the  church  of 
Rome,  unless  God  by  his  Spirit  make  them  subject  to  his 
truth,  or  else  they  shall  not  enjoy  serene  peace  of  conscience  ? 

But  if  those  people  in  Germany  did  hold  that  truth,  and 
many  errors  with  it,  as  denying  original  sin,  and  [affirming] 
free  will,  as  some  have  ground  to  think  they  did,2  their  errors 
are  to  be  blamed  and  rejected,  but  not  their  sincere  profession 
of  that  truth  of  believers'  baptism ;  nor  other  men  now,  so 
long  as  they  hold  with  that  sound  truth,  all  other  sound 
principles  of  Christian  religion  equally  with  the  godly,  called 
presbyterians  and  independents ;  which  was  Mr.  Canne's 
case,  and  the  case  now  of  many  thousands  in  England  that  do 
not  hold  communion  with  others,  though  they  do  own  and 
practise  believers'  baptism.  Because  they  hold  with  it  free 
will   and   falling   from    grace,    &c,   are   all  therefore  to  be 

■  [Sec  Tracts  on  Liberty  of  Conscience,  pp.  xcviii.  1/0,  172] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  21 

counted  unsound  and  heretical,  because  some  that  go  under 
the  name,  or  have  taken  up  baptism,  do  hold  errors  ?  There- 
fore, for  the  very  bare  holding  of  believers'  baptism,  and  for 
practising  the  same,  a  man  cannot  be,  and  ought  not  to  be 
accounted  a  heretic ;  neither  are  they  so  esteemed  by  the 
godly,  wise,  and  learned,  because  they  differ  only  in  the 
subject  or  time ;  for  all  other  sound  Christians  do  own  bap- 
tism with  water  to  be  an  ordinance  of  Christ,  and  so  do  they. 

But  to  speak  after  men,  not  to  mention  the  commands  in 
scripture,  which  is  fully  and  clear  for  believers'  baptism,  and 
the  practice  of  Christ  himself,  his  apostles,  and  primitive 
saints,  which  should  be  our  pattern  and  warrant  for  the  wor- 
ship of  God,  Dr.  Ames  saith,  it  is  not  heresy  simply  to  deny 
the  baptism  of  children ;  and  he  gives  this  reason,  Because 
by  this  they  overthrow  not  the  foundation  of  faith.  Thus  this 
learned  man  affirms,  as  you  may  see  in  his  Cases  of  Con- 
science, book  the  fourth,  page  the  eleventh.3  In  whose  Cases 
of  Conscience,  further,  where  he  treats  of  baptism  in  answer 
to  this  query,  Who  are  to  be  baptized?  he  saith,  concerning 
those  of  age  there  can  be  no  question  or  doubt.  See  idem  liber, 
page  81.4  This  Dr.  Ames,  his  Body  of  Divinity5  and  Cases 
of  Conscience,  are  received  by  divines  very  orthodox. 

But  to  return  to  our  narrative  of  the  Lord's  carry- 
ing on  the  truth  of  separation.  This  godly,  honourable 
woman,  perceiving  that  Mr.  Canne  was  a  baptist,  and 
not  in  her  way,  but  a  step  beyond  her  light,  caused   the 


3  [ Q.  3.  An  anabaptistae  habendi  sint  *  [Quinam  sunt  baptizandi  ?     Resp. 

pro  heereticis  ?     Resp.  Non  sunt  proprie  1.  De  adultis  non  potest  esse  quaestio  : 

haaretici,  qua  paedobaptismum  simplici-  quia  in  illis  requiritur  intelligentia  vera? 

ter   negant,    quamvis   error  ille   sit    in  fidei   et   voluntas   baptismi  suscipiendi 

ecclesia  non  tolerandus  :  quia  summam  distincte  declarata. — Ibid.  Lib.  iv.  cap. 

fidei  ad  salutem  necessarian  hoc  errore  xxvii.  p.  246.] 

non  evertunt. — Gul.  Amesii,   De   Con-  5  Gul.  Amesii,  Medulla  Theologica 

scientia,  &c,   Lib.  iv.  cap.  iv.  p.   17"2.  Amstel.  lfio'2.] 
Amstel.  1654.] 


22  THE    RECORDS 

public  place  to  be  made  fast,  whereby  they  were  prevented 
to  come  in.  Then  he  drew  forth,  with  abundance  of 
people,  into  a  green  thereby,  and  sent  for  Mr.  Fowler,  the 
minister  that  lived  there,  to  speak  with  him,  who  was  a  holy 
good  man,  of  great  worth  for  his  moderation,  zeal,  sincerity, 
and  a  sound  preacher  of  the  gospel,  as  he  approved  himself 
since ;  who,  accordingly,  came  to  Mr.  Canne,  in  the  green, 
where  they  debated  the  business  of  reformation,  and  the 
duty  of  separation  from  the  worship  of  antichrist,  cleaving 
close  to  the  doctrine  of  our  Lord  Jesus  and  his  instituted 
worship.  To  which  Mr.  Fowler  agreed  that  there  was  great 
corruption  in  worship,  and  that  it  was  the  duty  of  people  to 
reform  from  corruptions  in  worship ;  but  he  said  that  at  that 
season,  as  things  stood,  it  was  not  a  time,  because  they 
should  not  be  suffered,  and  should  be  cast  out  of  all  public 
places.  Mr.  Canne  answered,  that  mattered  not ;  though 
they  could  not  get  a  public  place  or  such  conveniences,  they 
should  hire  a  barn  to  meet  in,  keeping  the  worship  and 
commands  of  the  Lord  as  they  were  delivered  to  us.  Thus 
Mr.  Canne  continued  near  two  hours  in  the  green,  asserting 
and  proving  the  duty  of  a  people  to  the  Lord  in  such  a  day ; 
after  which  they  took  leave  of  each  other  and  departed. 

But  the  business  of  preaching  in  a  barn  could  hardly  be 
received.  The  thing  of  relative  holiness,  and  tincture  of 
consecrated  places,  was  not  off  the  people ;  for  they  were  not 
as  yet  prepared,  having  been  so  long  nursed  up  in  ignorance 
and  outward  forms. 

But  Mr.  Hazzard  being  come  home,  Mr.  Fowler  aforesaid 
meeting  with  him,  told  him  his  wife  was  quite  gone,  and 
would  hear  him  no  more.  Others  deridingly  said,  the  next 
thing  that  followed  would  be  that  she  would  forsake  the 
bed  also.  Thus  Satan,  when  he  knew  not  how  to  hinder 
them  in  their  going  on  to  perfect  separation,  he  cast  out 
slanderous  fomentations.    But  she,  approving  her  heart  to  the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  23 

Lord,  walked  before  him,  with  her  husband,  in  his  ordinances 
blameless,  to  his  death,  near  thirty  years  afterwards. 

Then  she,  with  those  few  that  had  joined  themselves 
together  to  worship  the  Lord  more  purely,  as  aforesaid,  after 
Mr.  Canne  had  thus  instructed  them,  and  showed  them  the 
order  of  God's  house,  and  the  difference  thereof  from  anti- 
christian  worship ;  then  they  stepped  further  in  separation, 
and  would  not  so  much  as  hear  any  minister  that  did  read 
common  prayer.  Thus  the  Lord  led  them  by  degrees,  and 
brought  them  out  of  popish  darkness  into  his  marvellous 
light  of  the  gospel. 

First  of  all,  the  Lord  alone,  by  his  Spirit,  not  by  might 
nor  by  power,  opened  their  eyes,  and  made  them  cast  off  the 
body  of  false  doctrines  of  the  church  of  Rome,  that  had  so 
long  deceived  the  nations,  and  made  them  drunk  with  the 
wine  of  her  fornication,  worshipping  under  pretence  the  true 
God  in  a  false  manner,  wresting  the  holy  scriptures  to 
their  own  damnation,  saying  the  real  presence  of  Christ  was 
in  the  sacrament  that  signified  his  body,  by  a  transubstantia- 
tion,  and  teaching  [that]  man's  works  merit  salvation,  and 
works  of  supererogation,  &c. 

Secondly,  The  Lord  put  it  into  the  hearts  of  some  in 
authority  in  this  nation  to  cast  off  the  body  of  the  worship 
of  Rome,  as  well  as  their  doctrine,  namely,  the  nest  of 
idolaters ;  even  to  cast  out  the  monks,  friars,  abbots,  priests, 
masses,  advocation  of  saints,  with  praying  for  the  deceased, 
&c.  These  things  were  done  long  before ;  for  which  ruff 
[sic~\  aud  rough  work  God  chose  and  fitted  rough  spirits  to 
do  it;  more  for  their  own  interest  and  concern,  than  aiming 
at  God's  glory.  So,  through  man's  own  private  ends,  the 
wise  Lord  managed  his  own  good  pleasure.  Witness  king 
Henry  VIII. 

Thirdly,  It  pleased  the  Lord,  in  these  latter  days  to 
raise  up  a  people,  and  make  them  come  a  step  further  in  the 


24  THE    RECORDS 

reformation ;  even  to  come  from  under  the  skirts  of  the 
whore,  and  to  cast  off  popish  scraps  of  doctrine  and  worship, 
the  appendices  thereof:  namely,  idolatrous  holy  days,  prima- 
rily their  three  great  or  cardinal  masses,  viz.,  Michaels-mass, 
Christ — or  pymass,  thirdly  Candles-mass,  days  of  their  own 
invention,  like  Jeroboam  ;  together  with  the  multitude  of 
their  saints'  days,  so  called,  as  St.  Allsouls,  and  St.  Mid- 
summer. The  folly  of  which  might  be  shown  at  large,  if  it 
might  not  obstruct  the  design  of  a  brief  narrative  how  the 
Lord  brought  this  church  out  of  darkness. 

Fourthly,  The  Lord  alone,  by  his  Spirit,  made  them  to 
disrelish  and  cast  off  carnal,  debauched  preachers,  idol 
shepherds  that  cared  not  after  the  flock  but  the  fleece, 
looking  their  gain  from  every  quarter,  that  did  not  relish  or 
savour  what  they  preached,  nor  preach  what  they  savoured ; 
being  thus  blind,  others'  eyes  were  opened  not  to  follow 
them. 

Fifthly,  The  Lord  made  them  to  embrace  and  adhere, 
to  follow,  love,  and  cleave  to  lively  and  powerful  preachers  ; 
by  giving  the  people  a  taste  of  his  Spirit,  they  desired  more, 
that  they  might  grow  thereby,  and  could  not  be  content  with 
the  abominable  broth  that  was  not  poured  out  by  his  Spirit. 

Sixthly,  The  Holy  One,  by  pouring  forth  into  the 
hearts  of  those  that  should  be  saved  a  more  sanctified  spirit, 
he  made  them  cast  off  and  leave  the  common  road ;  they 
forsook  profaning  the  Lord's  day  and  hearkening  unto 
homilies,  of  which  they  grew  weary. 

Seventhly,  They  left  off  superstitious  bowing  at  the 
name  of  Jesus,  and  to  the  altar;  which  thing  was  plain 
and  open  idolatry,  worshipping  and  adoring  that  which  there 
is  no  show  of  precept  for,  but  a  direct  and  visible  breach  of 
the  second  commandment. 

Eighthly,  They  cast  off  the  cross  and  other  ceremonies 
at  their  sprinkling  children  ;  which  was  a  good  step,  though 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  25 

the  people  could  not  see  through  to  reform  in  that  particular, 
to  cast  off  the  thing  of  sprinkling  itself,  which  was  the  mere 
invention  of  men  three  hundred  years  after  Christ,  [being] 
not  mentioned  of  in  Tertullian's  time — the  fruit  of  the 
apostacy  that  the  church  fell  into,  from  one  thing  to  another, 
until  at  last  they  lost  the  substance  of  religion,  and  kept 
only  a  shadow  thereof.  From  baptizing  souls,  as  they 
entered  into  the  church,  in  a  river,  they  made  a  vaunt,  and 
placed  it  in  their  public  places,  near  some  great  door ;  in  all 
such  places  signifying  or  resembling  the  entrance  into  the 
church.  Secondly,  From  dipping  the  children  in  the  font, 
they  by  degrees  took  up  sprinkling  them.  Thirdly,  From  a 
font,  in  process  of  time,  they  used  a  bason  in  their  place 
called  a  church.  Fourthly,  From  a  bason  in  their  church 
they  brought  it  to  a  bason  in  the  house.  Fifthly,  From  men, 
their  parsons,  to  sprinkle,  they  allowed  women  to  do  it,  in 
case  of  necessity,  as  they  called  it,  to  seal  their  wills,  and 
seal  that  which  they  never  read  by  the  party's  profession  or 
confession,  or  saw  by  their  conversation;  thus  leaving  the 
examples  in  holy  scripture,  and  the  commands  of  the  Lord. 
In  vain  do  they  worship  him,  teaching  for  doctrines  the  com- 
mandments of  men,  Mark  vii.  7,  or  traditions  of  men ;  setting- 
up  their  posts  by  the  Lord's. 

Ninthly.  Though  the  Lord  for  a  time  winked  at  the  times 
of  these  ignorances  in  that  thing,  he  made  them  cast  off  the 
use  of  pictures  and  images ;  and  they  could  not  bear  to  hear 
any  preach  or  plead  for  that  old  scrap  and  relic  of  idolatry, 
so  much  like  pleading  for  Baal. 

Tenthly.  The  Lord  wrought  so  upon  their  spirits,  that 
they  would  not  kneel  at  the  sacrament,  because  the  ex- 
ample in  holy  scriptures  was  sitting  at  the  Lord's  Supper ; 
although  it  was  pleaded  against  them,  [that]  so  solemn  an 
ordinance  was  to  be  done  with  a  great  deal  of  reverence,  and 
kneeling   was   a   reverence  to  God.     But  a  reverence  and 


26  THE    RECORDS 

decency  that  God  hath  not  commanded  must  not  be  observed, 
to  make  void  the  example  or  command ;  the  pattern  must  be 
kept.  Remember  God's  altar  must  not  be  made  of  hewn 
stone,  which  to  man  was  more  decent;  so  that  this  small 
thing  in  the  eye  of  many,  was  great  strength  to  the  godly 
that  left  it  off.  They  that  make  conscience  in  doing  small 
things  will  be  made  thereby  stronger,  and  enabled  to  do 
greater ;  for  "  he  that  hath  clean  hands  shall  wax  stronger 
and  stronger  in  the  Lord." 

Eleventhly,  They  cast  off  hearing  the  common  prayer — 
that  nurse  of  formality  and  chain  of  security.  Many  persons 
by  reading  thereof,  without  searching  their  hearts  and 
leaving  off  sin,  they  would  lick  themselves  whole  in  their 
thoughts  or  esteem,  like  the  harlot  in  the  Proverbs,  [who] 
said,  I  have  paid  my  vows  [Prov.  vii.  14]  ;  come,  let  us  sin 
and  be  vain;  not  regarding  whether  their  spirits  received 
any  divine  impress  upon  them,  [being]  broken  and  humbled 
in  the  presence  of  God.  And  so  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
[was]  quenched,  and  no  room  to  breathe,  from  the  sense 
of  their  present  miscarriages  or  wants,  whether  consolation 
or  humiliation. 

Twelfthly,  They  were  holpen  by  the  Lord  to  cast  off  this 
also,  and  to  step  this  further  in  their  reformation,  that  at  last 
they  would  not  hear  those  men  that  did  read  common 
prayer,  that  did  thereby  declare  themselves  to  own,  or 
partake  in  any  part,  consentingly  to  the  worship  of  the  beast. 

Thus  I  have  briefly  recited  twelve  steps  that  doth  com- 
plete a  demonstration  that  they,  this  church,  in  their  begin- 
ning, were  truly  reformed  in  a  great  measure,  in  turning 
from  the  worship  of  antichrist.  And  it  is  prayed  and 
hoped  [that]  the  Lord  will  in  his  due  time,  not  only  turn 
them  from  antichrist,  but  that  he  will  also  turn  them 
perfectly  to  himself,  and  make  them  so  to  wait  upon  him 
until  he  come,  Rev.  ii.  25  ;  xxii.  20. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  27 

These  few  being  thus  joined,  confirmed,  and  separated, 
they  began  very  much  to  increase ;  and  many  that  the  Lord 
had  awakened  and  converted  joined  in  to  them.  But  divers 
that  were  grave,  sincere,  and  godly  people,  that  had  gone  all 
along  with  them  step  by  step  until  this,  would  not  enter  into 
church  fellowship  at  that  time,  standing  off  for  many  years. 
Now,  notwithstanding  some  good  people  had  not  light  in 
that  duty,  so  to  separate  from  the  church  of  England,  as 
they  called  it,  and  did  not  come  in,  yet  those  that  had  begun 
to  join  themselves  together  they  did  increase,  enjoying  only 
their  own  gifts. 

But  sometimes  Mr.  Wroth  would  come  over  and  preach  to 
them,  strengthening  them  in  the  Lord,  who  lodged  at  Mr. 
Listun's  aforesaid,  whose  children  the  said  Mr.  Wroth  would 
use  to  teach  them  at  night-times  this  verse  following : — 

Thy  sin,  thy  end,  the  death  of  Christ, 

The  eternal  pangs  of  hell, 
The  day  of  doom,  the  joys  of  heaven, 

These  six  remember  well. 

Thus  this  holy  and  humble  man,  desiring  the  good  of 
souls,  would  be  doing  good  wherever  he  came,  both  to  young 
and  old.  So  this  church  of  Christ,  sometimes  they  had  food 
from  their  Father's  house  sent  unto  them,  and  without  feeding 
upon  the  husks  of  the  swine.  And  sometimes  some  of  the 
professors  of  Bristol  would  go  over  to  Wales,  to  hear  Mr. 
Wroth  and  the  good  ministers  there,  so  lively  were  they  in 
those  times ;  so  that  the  Lord  by  one  and  by  another  built  and 
increased  them  still.     Reformation  in  separation  went  on. 

Much  about  this  time  Mr.  Bacon,6  that  chiefly  was  speaker 
or  teacher  to  this  people,  he  was  sent  for,  away  from  them,  to 

6  [Mr.  Robert  Bacon  published  in  is  added,  A  Hint  of  the  Nature  of  the 
1646,  "  Christ  Mighty  in  Himself  and  Kingdom  of  God,  by  R.  Bacon,  a  corn- 
Members,  revealed  in  some  short  ex-  panion  with  them  that  have  not  the 
pressions  by  way  of  catechism;  to  which  faith   of    our  Lord  Jesus   Christ  with 


28  THE    RECORDS 

a  good  people  that  the  Lord  stirred  up,  at  a  place  called 
Filton,  three  miles  from  this  city,  having  no  minister  at  that 
time  to  their  parish.  They,  after  much  seeking  of  him,  and 
arguing  with  him  and  the  church  here,  did  obtain  him ;  and 
the  church  of  Bristol,  sore  against  their  wills,  was  fain  to 
part  with  him  to  them,  though  he  was  principally  useful  to 
them,  for  they  had  no  settled  pastor  as  yet.  Which  not- 
withstanding the  loss  of  him,  the  church  here  kept  together ; 
having  sometimes  only  the  brethren  of  the  church,  that  were 
not  ministers,  vulgarly  so  called,  but  only  gifted,  [who]  did 
use  to  speak  and  carry  on  the  meetings ;  and  they  multiplied 
and  grew  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord. 

Then  there  joined  unto  them  one  Mr.  Pennill,  who  had 
before  been  a  minister  at  Leonards,  but  being  inclined  to 
reformation  was  several  times  set  on  by  Mrs.  Hazzard,  like  a 
Priscilla ;  so  he  left  off  his  conformity,  and  closed  in  with 
them.  And  the  church  increased  to  about  one  hundred  [and] 
sixty  persons  from  within  the  city  and  [from  the]  country 
near  fifteen  miles  round.  Some  from  Busselton,  Keynsham, 
and  Wells,  came  and  joined  themselves  to  them. 

Then  began  the  wars  to  break  forth  between  king  Charles 
I.  and  the  parliament  of  England.7  Then,  where  the  king's 
army  came,  the  godly  professing  people  were  fain  to  fly,  and 
leave  their  habitations.     At  that  time  another  nickname  and 


respect  of  persons."     12mo,   London.  returned  to  Bristol  after  the  taking  of 

Dedicated   to   the    Right   Hon.    Lady  that   city   by   the    parliament's  forces, 

Elizabeth,  Viscountess   Say   and    Seal.  Sept.  10,  1645. — Gangraena   I.  p.  38, 

Edwards  tells  us  that  in  1645  or  1646  II.  p.  109.     Crosby,  iii.  3.J 

he  \v;is  in  London,  having  been  expelled  7  [On  the  23rd  of  April,  1642,  the 

from  Gloucester  for  "  several  erroneous  king  attempted  to  seize  Hull,  with  its 

doctrines,"  denial  of   infant's  baptism  magazine  of  arms  and  provisions  ;  on  the 

being  probably  one  of  them,  and  found  22nd  of  August  he  raised  his  standard 

a  refuge  in  the  house  of  Mr.  Edward  at  ^Nottingham  ;   and   on    the  23rd   of 

Barber,  in  Threadneedle  Street,  pastor  October  the  first  battle  was  fought,  at 

of  a  baptist  church  assembling  in  the  Edgehill,    in    Warwickshire.       White- 

SpitaJ,     Mr.  Bacon  is  reported  to  have  locke,  pp.  55,  59,  61.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  29 

term  of  derision  was  cast  upon  the  professors,  that  they  were 
called  Roundheads.  Some  think  it  arose  from  this: — the 
good  people  that  were  zealous  for  the  Lord,  turning  from  the 
manners  of  the  world  as  well  as  [from]  their  worships,  would 
not  wear  their  hair  long,  as  did  the  ungodly,  therefore 
they  would  cause  their  hair  to  be  rounded  very  short,  being 
cut  so  near  that  the  very  tips  of  their  ears  were  seen.  Thus 
the  opprobrious  name  of  roundhead  was  raised,  and  the  name 
of  puritan  began  to  be  less  used  and  declined ;  so  that  if  the 
king's  soldiers  met  with  any  such,  they  were  the  objects  of 
their  fury;  wherefore  the  good  people  were  forced  to  fly 
from  them.8  And  this  city  being  now  possessed  with  the 
parliament's  army,  many  of  the  ministers  and  professors  from 
Wales  were  fain  to  make  haste  from  their  families,  being  like 
to  be  taken  by  the  Commission  of  Array,9  [and]  fled  by  night, 
some  one  way  and  some  another,  and  came  to  this  city,  and 
joined  (namely,  most  of  the  church  at  Llanvaches)  with  the 
church  at  Bristol.  But  Mr.  Wroth,  their  pastor,  was  by  the 
Lord  laid  asleep,  according  to  his  prayer,  before  the  war,  which 
for  a  great  while  was  feared ;  and  therefore  he  petitioned 
[that]  he  might  never  hear  a  drum  beat  in  order  thereto. 

These  two  churches  being  thus  come  together,  and  now 
having  an  opportunity  to  have  the  ordinance  of  the  Lord, 
the  Lord's  supper,  to  be  administered  to  them,  by  reason 

8  ["  The  debauched  rabble  through  parliament's  garrisons." — Baxter's  Nar- 

the  land,  emboldened  by  his  gentry,  and  rative,  p.  44.] 

seconded  by  the  common  soldiers  of  the  9  [In  June,  1642,  the  king  appointed 

king's  army,  took  all  that  were  called  Commissioners   of   Array,    to   raise   in 

puritans  for  their  enemies.  ...  So  that  various  parts  of  the  country,  men  and 

if  any  one  was  noted  for  a  strict  and  money  for  an  army.     Their  operations 

famous  preacher,  or  for  a  man  of  a  pre-  commenced    in     Leicestershire.      The 

cise  and  pious  life,  he  was  either  plun-  Commission    of    Array    was     declared 

dered  or  abused,  and  in  danger  of  his  illegal,    and    against  the  property  and 

life Most  were  afraid    of  their  liberty   of  the  subject,  by  the    parlia- 

lives,  and  so  they  sought  refuge  in  the  ment. — Whitelocke,  p.  56.     Husband's 

Collections,  pp.  344—348.] 


30  THE    RECORDS 

Mr.  Cradock 1  was  come ;  for  unto  that  time,  although  they 
had  separated  about  two  years  from  the  world,  yet  were 
[they]  not  in  a  settled  way  with  a  pastor  over  them,  but  Mr. 
Cradock  being  pastor  over  the  church  from  Llanvaches,  they 
sat  down  together  and  brake  bread;  he  being  the  adminis- 
trator, first  in  the  Dolphin,  in  the  great  room,  then  after- 
ward sometimes  at  a  baker's  house,  upon  James'  Back,  who 
was  a  member  of  the  church.  And  after  that  they  had  the 
use  of  a  small  public  place  to  themselves,  called  'TEwins,  by 
the  Tolzey,  where  they  used  to  preach  and  celebrate  the 
ordinance  of  the  Lord  as  it  was  delivered.  And  so  they 
continued  and  kept  together  in  church  fellowship,  breaking 
bread,  and  prayers,  until  Bristol  was  delivered  up  to  the 
king's  forces,  which  was  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  one  thou- 
sand six  hundred  and  forty  and  three.2 

Anno  1643. 

Then  those  of  Wales,  and  most  of  the  professors  of 
this  city,  were  fain  to  journey  to  London ;  and  thus  going, 
a  little  way  they  were  guarded  by  a  conduct  of  the 
king's  soldiers,  according  to  articles  agreed  upon  at  the 
delivering  the  city.  But  by  the  same  guard  they  were 
stripped  and  robbed  in  the  country,  contrary  to  [the]  articles, 
and  so  left  them,  those  that  had  horses  to  go  on  foot.  When 
they  came  to  London,  the  said  people  of  Wales,  and  those  of 

1  [Mr.    Walter   Cradock    was    of   a  Mr.  Jessey,  and  others,  in  forming  the 

reputable  family,  and   studied  at  Ox-  church  at  Llanvaches,  but  was  chiefly 

ford  for  the  ministry.    Converted  by  the  occupied  in  itinerant   labours  through 

instrumentality  of  Mr.  Wroth,  he  began  Wales. — Thomas's  Hist. of  Welsh  Asso- 

to  preach  the  gospel  with  great  accept-  ciation,  pp.  3,  4.] 

ance,  and  while  acting  as  curate  to  Mr.  2  [26th  of  July,  to  Prince  Rupert, 

Erbury,  vicar  of  St.  Mary's,  Cardiff,  in  after  three  days'  siege. — Clarendon  Hist. 

1634,  was  exposed  to  episcopal  wrath,  of  Reb.  II.  i.  395.     For  Mrs.  Hazzard's 

suspended,  and  deprived  of  his  licence.  heroic   conduct   on    this   occasion    see 

In  1039  he  was  united  with  Mr.  Wroth,  Addenda,  Note  C] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  31 

Bristol  joined  together,  and  did  commonly  meet  at  Great 
Allhallows  for  the  most  part ;  only  those  professors  that  were 
baptized  before  they  went  up,  they  did  sit  down  with  Mr. 
Kiffin3  and  his  church  in  London,  being  likewise  baptized. 

Anno  1645. 

And  when  Bristol  was  surrendered  again  to  the  parlia- 
ment,4 the  church  came  home  again,  that  is,  the  greatest 
part  of  them.5  But  some  that  were  joined  in  Bristol  before 
they  were  driven  out,  were  dealt  with,  and  cast  out  in 
London  for  errors,  and  some  fell  away  to  notions.  So  that 
after  they  came  down  again,  the  heads  and  minds  of  many  of 
the  members  were  filled  with  controversies,  insomuch  that 
every  meeting  almost  was  filled  with  disputes  and  debates : 
[so]  that  they  were  in  great  confusion,  and  but  little  order. 
Some  of  them  [were]  against  ordinances,  as  having  got  above 
them,  or  pleading  that  while  the  church  of  Christ  was  in  her 
wilderness  state  they  should  not  use  them,  and  so  took  liberty 
to  forbear  them  ;  and  it  ended  with  them  in  a  very  vain 
conversation.  And  being  thus,  as  it  were,  in  a  chaos  of 
confusion,  by  reason  of  those  several  that  did  not  cleave  to 
their  former  received  principles,  nor  soberly  retain  their  new 
notions,  but  publicly  propagating  of  them,  and  so  contending 

3  [Mr.  Kiffin,  on  adopting  the  senti-  mained  in  London  till  the  close  of  1646, 
ment  of  believers' baptism,  in  1638,  left  when  he  proceeded  to  Wales  as  an 
the  church  of  Mr.  H.  Jessey,  of  which  itinerant  preacher  of  the  gospel.  In 
he  was  a  member,  and  united  himself  to  September,  1646,  Edwards  tells  us  that 
the  church  of  Mr.  Spilsbury.  A  differ-  he  preached  "  many  odd  things,"  as 
ence  of  opinion  having  arisen,  about  per-  that  in  the  day  of  the  gospel's  triumph, 
mitting  persons  to  preach  among  them  "there  should  be  no  ordinances  to 
who  had  not  been  baptized  by  immer-  punish  men  for  holding  opinions,  there 
sion,  Mr.  Kiffin  and  some  others  amicably  should  be  no  confessions  of  faith,  there 
separated,  and  formed  the  church  at  every  one  should  have  the  liberty  of  their 
Devonshire  Square,  probably  about  consciences."  He  also  dropped  many 
1640.     Crosby,  i.  149,  hi.  4.]  "hints  about  dipping  often,  and  suffering 

4  [10th  September,  1645.]  such."     Gangrsena,  part  III.  p.  161.] 
8  [Mr.  Cradock  appears  to  have  re- 


32  THE    RECORDS 

for  them,  and  not  duly  keeping  their  places,  those  that  did 
cleave  to  the  simplicity  of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  and  the 
ordinances  thereof,  began  again  to  new  model  themselves, 
and  to  separate  from  those  disturbers;  and  declared,  that 
whosoever  would  keep  to  the  plain  truths  of  the  scripture, 
and  [to]  the  gospel  ordinances  as  they  were  there  laid  down, 
should  give  in  their  names;  to  which  many  assented,  and  gave 
in  their  names.  Among  which,  two  or  three  others  that  had 
not  been  formerly  of  the  church,  but  came  to  hear,  gave  in 
their  names  also ;  but  at  that  time  they  would  not  receive 
them,  because  not  of  the  church  before.  Thus  having  taken 
the  names  of  such  that  again  gave  up  themselves  to  the 
duties  and  privileges  of  such  that  were  called  to  be  saints, 
they  entered  into  a  covenant  that  was  very  briefly  written  in 
a  paper,  and  read  unto  them,  to  this  effect — i  That  they  would, 
in  the  strength  of  Christ,  keep  close  to  the  holy  scriptures, 
the  word  of  God ;  and  [to]  the  plain  truths  and  ordinances 
of  the  gospel,  of  church  fellowship,  breaking  bread,  and 
prayers ;  and  to  [be]  subject  to  one  another,  according  to 
the  discipline  and  admonition  [commanded]  by  the  rules  of 
Christ,  in  the  New  Testament,  or  the  scriptures.' 

And  so  having  now  by  a  new  embodying  of  themselves 
again,  and,  as  it  were,  renewing  their  covenant  with  God,  and 
[with]  one  another,  they  went  on  in  the  ways  of  the  Lord, 
meeting  usually  every  Lord's  day,  in  the  afternoons  in 
Lewin's  Mead,  at  a  brewer's  house,  namely,  at  one  Mrs. 
Neth way's,  a  woman  who  in  her  day  was  very  eminent  for 
godliness,  and  of  a  good  and  great  understanding  in  the  fear 
of  the  Lord ;  and  [on]  Lord's  days,  in  the  mornings,  they 
usually  heard  Mr.  Ingello,  at  the  parish  or  public  meeting 
house,  called  All  Saints,  near  the  Tolzey,  And  the  church 
also  met  every  fifth  day  of  the  week,  sometimes  at  one  place, 
sometimes  at  another,  of  the  members'  houses.  For  a  con- 
siderable time  it  was  kept  at  sister  Griffen's  house,  in  Christ- 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  33 

mas  Street ;  afterwards  she  was  married  to  Mr.  Edmund 
Ellis.  This  meeting  of  the  church  upon  the  fifth  day  of  the 
week,  about  four  of  the  clock  in  the  afternoon,  was  a  meeting 
for  conference,  that  was  for  divers,  or  any  of  the  brethren,  to 
speak  unto  a  question  propounded  from  some  place  of  holy 
scripture ;  that  so  there  was  liberty  for  any  brother,  and  for 
any  sister  by  a  brother,  to  propose  his  doubt  of,  or  their 
desire  of  understanding,  any  portion  of  scripture ;  and  the 
rest  of  the  brethren,  especially  the  officers  in  the  congrega- 
tion, one  by  one,  would  speak  to  the  answering  of  the 
question,  according  as  the  Lord  did  hint  upon  their  spirits, 
and  then  be  silent,  and  another  speak,  and  so  a  third, 
according  to  what  was  commanded  the  churches,  1  Cor. 
xiv.  30,  31,  33.  By  this  means  and  practice,  that  the  fifth 
day,  or  the  weekly  meeting,  was  always  managed  by  way  of 
conference,  these  seven  benefits  did  redound  to  the  glory 
of  God,  and  the  well-being  of  the  church : — 

First,  by  this  meeting  for  any  brother  to  speak  to  any 
scripture  upon  his  heart,  or  to  any  question  that  was  pro- 
posed, that  was  judged  meet  by  the  elders  for  the  church's 
edification  (those  were  rejected  if  any  tended  to  vain 
jangling): — first,  this  benefit  was  found,  that  many  dark 
scriptures  were  opened. 

Secondly,  many  souls  had  their  doubts  resolved,  especially 
concerning  their  interest  in  Christ,  and  their  eternal  state,  when 
they  heard  the  doubts  and  experiences  of  others  discovered. 

Thirdly,  many  cases  of  conscience  were  answered,  what  to 
do,  or  not  to  do,  that  in  their  conversations  they  might  know 
how  to  carry  it  towards  their  heavenly  Father,  and  their 
neighbour,  in  divers  particular  cases,  [so  as]  to  keep  a  con- 
science void  of  offence  towards  God  and  man. 

Fourthly,  light  in  the  church  much  increased,  to  the 
clearing  of  their  understandings  in  matters  of  faith  and 
practice,  for  doctrine,  worship,  and  discipline.     When  any 

D 


34  THE    RECORDS 

of  these  [were]  propounded  in  a  question,  by  divers  speaking 
at  the  same  time  to  the  same  thing,  what  light  God  had  given 
them  in  it,  by  searching  the  scriptures,  or  by  any  one  scrip- 
ture being  laid  together,  the  rest  did,  and  could  better  judge. 

Fifthly,  many  souls  in  the  church  [were]  confirmed  and 
established  that  it  was  the  true  grace  of  God  wherein  they 
stood,  1  Peter  v.  12 ;  which  was  of  great  use  against  those 
erring  days  and  false  doctrines  that  Satan  and  his  instruments 
brought  in,  to  draw  away  souls  from  the  simplicity  of  the 
gospel  of  our  Lord  Jesus  to  a  light  within. 

Sixthly,  by  this  meeting  many  brethren  that  seemed  to  have 
no  gift,  they  were  discovered  to  have  a  very  spiritual  under- 
standing and  a  good  utterance,  to  the  mutual  edification  of 
the  church.  So  that  those  gifts  and  graces  that  lay  dormant 
and  hidden  were  brought  forth,  to  the  end  that  our  Lord 
gave  them  when  he  ascended,  Eph.  iv.  8 — 17. 

Seventhly,  and  lastly,  though  more  might  be  named,  this 
benefit  followed,  that  those  gifts  that  were  discovered  were 
increased,  and  their  knowledge  much  enlarged,  and  some 
enabled  in  process  of  time,  being  trained  up  by  these  meet- 
ings of  conference,  to  hold  forth  the  word  of  life  publicly, 
if  there  were  occasion  of  necessity,  to  the  building  up  of  the 
church,  and  converting  of  several  souls ;  that  afterwards,  as 
experience  hath  found,  to  the  praise  and  glory  of  God  it  hath 
been  declared,  that  God  first  awakened  several  souls  to  turn 
from  sin,  and  look  after  their  soul's  eternal  welfare,  by  the 
speaking  of  some  of  the  younger  brethren  at  those  meetings 
that  in  after  years  were  kept  up  in  the  church. 

The  church  being  thus  settled,  as  aforesaid,  by  their  new 
congregating,  and  leaving  those  that  sucked  in  libertinism 
notions  to  forbear,  in  that  manner  those  that  kept  to  the 
simplicity  of  the  gospel  withdrew  from  them,  and  kept 
together,  meeting,  as  aforesaid,  Lord's  days  and  on  the 
fifth  day.     Having  no  pastor,  they  chose  Mr.  Ingello  afore- 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  35 

said,  otherwise  called  Doctor  Angello,  to  be  their  teacher, 
and  sat  under  his  ministry  about  four  or  five  years.  They 
also  desired  him  to  break  bread  unto  them,  which  accordingly 
he  did  during  the  said  time;  and  so  the  church  walked 
together  and  increased. 

And  while  they  thus  walked  with  Mr.  Ingello,  their 
teacher,  by  the  goodness  of  God,  they  had  one  memorable 
member  added  unto  them :  namely,  a  blackamoor  maid,  named 
Frances,  a  servant  to  one  that  lived  upon  the  back  of  Bristol, 
which  thing  is  somewhat  rare  in  our  days  and  nation,  to  have 
an  Ethiopian,  or  blackamoor,  to  be  truly  convinced  of  sin, 
and  of  their  lost  state  without  the  Kedeemer,  and  to  be  truly 
converted  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  as  she  was ;  which,  by 
her  profession  or  declaration  at  the  time  of  her  reception, 
together  with  her  sincere  conversation,  she  gave  great  ground 
for  charity  to  believe  [that]  she  was  truly  brought  over  to 
Christ ;  for  this  poor  Ethiopian's  soul  savoured  much  of  God, 
and  she  walked  very  humble  and  blameless  in  her  conversa- 
tion to  her  end.  And  when  she  was  upon  her  death-bed, 
she  sent  a  remarkable  exhortation  unto  the  whole  church 
with  whom  she  walked,  as  her  last  request  unto  them ;  which 
argued  her  holy,  child-like  fear  of  the  Lord,  and  how  precious 
the  Lord  was  to  her  soul,  as  was  observed  by  the  manner  of 
her  expressing  it,  which  was  this : — one  of  the  sisters  of  the 
congregation  coming  to  visit  her  in  her  sickness,  she  solemnly 
took  her  leave  of  her,  as  to  this  world,  and  prayed  the  sister 
to  remember  her  to  the  whole  congregation,  and  tell  them, 
that  she  did  beg  every  soul,  to  take  heed  that  they  did  let 
the  glory  of  God  to  be  dear  unto  them.  A  word  meet  for  the 
church  ever  to  remember,  and  for  every  particular  member  to 
observe,  that  they  do  not  lose  the  glory  of  God  in  their 
families,  neighbourhoods,  or  places,  where  God  casts  them ; 
it  being  the  dying  words  of  a  blackamoor,  fit  for  a  white 
heart  to  store.     After  which,  this  Ethiopian  yielded  up  the 

D  2 


36  THE    RECORDS 

spirit  to  Jesus  that  redeemed  her,  and  was  honourably 
interred,  being  carried  by  the  elders,  and  the  chiefest  of  note 
of  the  brethren  in  the  congregation—  devout  men  bearing  her 
— to  the  grave,  where  she  must  rest  until  our  Lord  doth 
come,  who  will  bring  his  saints  with  him.  By  this,  in  our 
days,  we  may  see,  experimentally,  that  scripture  made  good, 
oi)K  itrri  Trpo(JU}7roXr}TrTrjg  6  Oebg,  aXA'  ev  navrl  iSvu,  &c.  ; 
that  is,  God  is  no  respecter  of  faces  ;  but  among  all  nations,  &c. 
Acts  x.  34,  35. 

Thus  the  Lord  carried  on  his  work  in  this  church,  in  Mr. 
Ingello's  time  of  being  with  them. 

But  at  last,  divers  of  the  members  of  the  congregation 
began  to  be  offended  with  Mr.  Ingello's  conversation ;  as  first, 
with  his  flaunting  apparel,  for  he,  being  a  thin,  spare,  slender 
person,  did  go  very  neat,  in  a  costly  trim,  and  in  some  time 
began  to  exceed  in  some  garments  not  becoming  the  gospel, 
much  less  a  minister  of  Christ ;  together  .with  his  being  given 
so  much  to  music,  not  only  at  his  own  house,  but  at  houses 
of  entertainment  out  of  town ;  sometimes  with  some  of  his 
relations,  and  [sometimes  with  the]  gentry  of  the  city  of  his 
acquaintance,  he  would  be  at  his  music.  Of  which,  when 
some  of  the  members  heard,  they  were  much  troubled  and 
offended  ;  and  dealing  with  him  for  it  by  way  of  admonition 
and  entreaty,  they  could  not  work  upon  him  to  leave  his 
music,  nor  his  so  frequent  nor  public  use  thereof.  For  he 
told  them,— take  away  his  music,  take  away  his  life ;  which 
offended  and  stumbled  them  more,  that  is,  the  lively  and 
most  serious,  watchful  members  in  those  times ;  [so]  that 
their  affections  began  to  alienate  from  him,  and  to  hearken 
after  another.6 

•  [Dr.    Nathanael   Ingello    was   the  and    also  a    sermon    preached    at    St. 

author  of  several  works.    InlG59,when  Paul's  Cross,  both  in  8vo.     His  most 

fellow  of  Eton  College,  he  published  a  important     work    is    a    singular     and 

sermon   preached  before  the  university  rather  curious  romance,    entitled  Ben- 

of  Cambridge  in  the    preceding   year,  tivoglio     and     Urania,     in     folio,    the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  37 

Whereupon  some  of  the  members,  hearing  of  the  fame  of 
one  Mr.  Ewins,  [desired  his  services  as  their  pastor.]  He 
was  one  of  those  that  were  sent  forth  by  the  church  of 
Allhallows,  in  London,  to  preach  the  gospel  in  Wales — there 
were  about  six  in  all  sent ; — and  the  church  of  Llanvaches,  in 
Wales,  some  few  miles  from  Chepstow,  chose  Mr.  Thomas 
Ewins  to  be  their  teacher,  and  there,  by  the  said  church,  by 
fasting  and  prayer,  he  was  set  apart  to  the  work  of  the 
ministry.  Llanvaches  was  the  church  first  planted  by  worthy 
Mr.  Wroth,  whom  Mr.  Walter  Cradock  succeeded,  and  Mr. 
Ewins  succeeded  him. 7 

But  one  of  the  members  of  this  church,  namely,  Mrs. 
Nethway,  aforesaid,  [a  woman]  of  a  gracious  lively  spirit, 
rode  over  to  Wales  to  hear  this  Mr.  Ewins,  so  to  taste  as  it 
were  the  savour  of  his  spirit ;  and  she  being  affected  with 
his  preaching,  she  was  the  instrument,  when  she  came  home, 
to  persuade  the  leading  brethren  of  the  congregation  that 
then  were,  to  endeavour  to  get  the  said  Mr.  Ewins  to  be 
teacher  to  this  congregation,  which,  accordingly,  was  assented 
unto :  so  that  some  were  sent  by  this  church  in  Bristol  to  the 
church  of  Llanvaches,  in  Wales,  to  get  their  consent,  and 
Mr.  Ewins's  consent,  for  his  settlement  in  Bristol  with  this 
church;  but  could  not  prevail,  the  church  being  altogether 
unwilling  to  part  with  him.  Yet,  notwithstanding,  after 
much  ado,  and  great  importunity  from  the  church,  and  from 
the  magistrates  of  Bristol  that  then  were,  being  invited  by 
the  mayor  and  aldermen,  as  well  as  [by]  the  church,  Mr. 

second   edition   of  which  appeared    in  history  of  the  Welsh  baptists,  conceives 

1669.     In  addition  to  his  title  of  D.D.  that  on  the  return  of  Mr.  Wroth's  peo- 

in    the  former   works,    that   of  Mus.  pie  to  Llanvaches,  in  1646,  the  baptists 

Bac.  is  found  in  the  latter.     It  is  said  separated,  and  formed  a  church  at  Llan- 

that  he  became  subsequently  master  of  trissaint,  under  the  pastoral  care  of  Mr. 

the  band  to  Charles  II.]  William  Thomas,  p.  538.  Of  this  church 

7  [The  late  Rev.  Joshua  Thomas,  of  and  its  pastor  some  notices  occur  in  the 

Leominster,  in  his  valuable  manuscript  subsequent  pages  of  these  records.] 


38  THE    RECORDS 

Evvins  was  prevailed  with  to  come,  and  the  church  of  Llan- 
vaches  was  at  last  prevailed  with  so  far,  as  to  lend  him  to 
Bristol  (but  not  otherwise) ;  by  reason  [that]  they  saw  the 
need  and  earnestness  of  this  church,  and  a  letter  from  the 
mayor,  and  aldermen,  and  steward  of  the  city,  which  was  as 
follows : — 

Anno  1651. 

Good  Sir, — In  pursuance  of  an  act  of  parliament  for  the 
better  maintenance  of  ministers  to  preach  the  gospel,  We,  the 
commissioners  by  the  said  act  appointed,  being  met  together 
to  consider  and  advise  of  able  and  godly  men  to  preach  the 
gospel  in  Bristol,  having  experience  and  much  assurance  of 
your  faithfulness  and  sufficiency  for  that  work,  do  desire 
you,  Sir,  that  you  will  please  to  come  unto  us,  and  perform 
the  work  and  service  of  a  faithful  dispenser  of  the  word  of 
the  gospel  in  this  city.  And  forasmuch  as  there  is  a  power 
given  us  by  the  said  act,  to  make  provision  for  a  competent 
number  of  good  ministers,  we  doubt  not  but  we  shall  pro- 
vide a  sufficient  and  comfortable  maintenance  for  you.  We 
shall  expect  to  hear  from  you,  and  remain,  Sir,  your  loving 
friends, 

Dennis  Hollister,  Hu.  Browne, 

John  Haggatt,  B-i.  Aldworth, 

James  Poavell,  Edw.  Tyson, 

Thomas  Harris,  Robert  Vickris, 

George  Lane,  Jer.  Holwey.8 

Bristol,  the  14th  of  July,  1651. 

This  is  a  true  copy  of  the  letter  sent  unto  Mr.  Ewins,  to 
have  him  come  to  live  at  Bristol,  being  from  the  then  mayor, 
Hugh  Browne,  Esq.,  with  divers  aldermen  and  others  that 

8  [This  was  under  an  act  dated  29th  rishes,  and  better  maintenance  of  the 
March,  1650,  for  the  more  frequent  ministers  in  the  city  of  Bristol. — Scobel's 
preaching  the  gospel,  consolidating  pa-       Collection  of  Acts,  part  2,  p.  111.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  39 

were  commissioners  for  the  maintenance  of  ministers  for  the 
city  of  Bristol,  1651. 

Thus  Mr.  Ewins  was  settled  [as]  teacher  to  this  church, 
and  by  the  mayor,  as  aforesaid,  he  [was]  made  lecturer  for 
the  city  also ;  namely,  at  the  place  called  Nicolas,  to  preach 
a  sermon  every  third  day  of  the  week ;  and  the  place  they 
appointed  him  for  the  Lord's  day  was  Christchurch,  where 
he  preached  usually  mornings,  and  at  Maryport  in  the  after- 
noon. But  in  the  summer  time  several  of  [the]  other  parishes 
would  get  him  in  the  afternoons:  at  Thomas's,  on  the  other 
side  of  the  bridge,  and  frequently  to  Phillips's,  seeing  those 
places  were  spacious,  [and]  for  the  conveniency  of  the  people 
he  would  be  there.  Thus  he  continued  divers  years,  to  the 
comfort,  peace,  and  increase  of  the  church. 

And  in  those  halcyon  days  of  prosperity,  liberty,  and  peace, 
it  pleased  the  Lord  to  break  forth  more  primitive  light  and 
purity  in  reformation  of  worship,  to  bring  the  church  to  a 
more  exact  keeping  to  the  holy  scripture  ;  so  that  some  of  the 
members  began  to  question  what  rule  they  had  for  sprinkling 
of  children ;  and  upon  examination,  finding  no  bottom  for  it, 
but  men's  inventions  and  tradition.  And  many  that  were 
preachers  of  this  latter  age,  knowing  there  was  no  other 
ground  but  tradition  for  that  practice,  they  endeavoured 
to  find  out  a  way  to  hold  it  up  by  arguments  from  the 
covenant  made  with  Abraham.  And  about  this  covenant 
they  are  full  of  variance  among  themselves;  for  ask  one 
what  this  covenant  was,  he  will  say  one  thing,  and  ask  a 
second,  he  will  say  another  thing,  &c. ;  but  ask  the  scripture, 
and  it  will  be  found  there  is  not  that  in  it  that  they  pretend ; 
if  you  compare  Gen.  xv.  7,  13,  16,  18,  with  Gen.  xvii. 
7,  8,  where  it  is  confirmed,  with  the  Lord's  recital,  or 
repeating  it,  Exod.  vi.  6,  7 ;  and  Moses'  expounding  or 
repeating  it,  in  Exod.  xxxii.  1 3 ;  and  the  apostle  Paul's 
expounding  of  it,  Gal.  iii.  16,  29;  and  Romans  ix.  6,  8,  com- 


40  THE    RECORDS 

pared  with  Exod.  xxix.  45  ;  and  our  Saviour  makes  a  dis- 
tinction between  Abraham's  seed  and  Abraham's  children,  see 
John  viii.  37,  39  ;  and  Paul  from  Christ  so  saith,  Rom,  ix.  7. 

Yet,  notwithstanding  the  plain  gospel  rule,  that  none  were 
baptized  until  they  professed  their  faith  in  Christ,  they  would 
have  people  (believe  and)  keep  to  the  dispensation  under  the 
law,  as  though  God  had  not  altered  it ;  but  as  if  that  there  is 
the  same  law  for  God's  house,  or  church,  under  the  gospel,  as 
there  was  under  the  law,  for  the  discipline  of  it ;  though 
under  the  law,  and  in  Abraham's  time,  God  changed  it  from 
what  the  law  of  his  house  was  in  Enoch  and  Noah's  time. 
But  they  will  have  the  same*  law  of  entrance  into  the  church 
under  the  gospel  administration  as  it  was  under  the  law, 
because  all  the  children  of  the  nation  of  the  Jews  had  a  right 
to  both  the  seals  under  the  law ;  namely,  circumcision  and 
the  passover.  Therefore,  they  argue,  that  children  under  the 
gospel  administration  have  a  right  to  baptism  ;  yet  they  them- 
selves will  not  grant  them  a  right  to  the  Lord's  supper,  though 
under  the  law  they  had  a  right  to  the  passover ;  which  doth 
confute  themselves,  in  their  keeping  them  from  one  of  the 
seals,  and  not  from  both,  as  they  should  [do],  until  they  pro- 
fess their  faith  in  Christ :  for  so  is  the  law  under  the  gospel 
administration,  If  thou  believest  thou  mayest,  Acts  viii.  37  ; 
it  being  changed  from  what  it  was  under  the  law.  As  saith 
the  author  [of  the  epistle]  to  the  Hebrews,  chap.  vii.  12,  The 
'priesthood  being  changed,  there  is  made  of  necessity  a  change  also 
of  the  law  ;  that  is  to  say,  a  change  of  the  law  of  God's  house 
for  discipline,  Ezek.  xliv.  5,  and  for  the  form  of  the  house. 

But  there  is  not  a  change  of  the  moral  law,  for  that  abides 
as  a  rule  of  life  for  conversation  to  all  generations.  But  this 
law,  or  form  of  the  church,  under  gospel  administration,  is 
not  the  same  with  the  form  under  the  legal  administration, 
for  the  apostle  saith  there  is  a  change  of  that  as  well  as  of  the 
priesthood.     But  antichrist,  the  papal  church,  having  reigned 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  41 

long,  did  introduce  forms  and  laws  of  its  own  invention,  and 
laid  aside  the  simplicity  of  the  form  laid  down  in  the  New 
Testament. 

Anno  1652. 
Now  the  Lord  hath  been  of  late  years  leading  out  his 
people  out  of  Eomish  darkness,  to  practise  the  ordi- 
nances, as  they  were  delivered  by  Christ  himself  and 
the  apostles,  recorded  in  holy  scripture,  which  is  the 
Christian's  rule ;  and,  accordingly,  the  Lord  awakened  some 
of  this  church  to  consider  [that]  there  was  no  ground  for 
baptizing  children,  much  less  for  sprinkling  them;  and,  there- 
fore, [that]  they  had  not  been  rightly  baptized,  according 
to  the  scripture.  Whereupon,  one  of  the  members,  namely, 
Thomas  Monday,  being  convinced  in  the  year  of  our  Lord, 
1652,  he  desired  leave  of  the  congregation  to  go  and  join 
himself  to  the  other  church  in  Bristol  that  were  all  baptized, 
having  one  Henry  Hynam  for  their  teacher.  And  when, 
after  divers  reasonings  with  the  said  brother  Munday,  they 
could  not  prevail  with  him  to  abide  in  his  former  under- 
standing as  to  that  point,  they  gave  him  liberty  to  depart, 
and  join  himself  to  the  other  church  aforesaid.9  Thus,  of 
several  that  were  enlightened  in  the  truth,  some  had  strength 
to  practise  it. 

9  [The  earliest  remaining  records  of  "for  owning  and  practising  corrupt  prin- 

this   church,   formerly   meeting  in   the  ciples,"  as  that  of  the  general  baptists. 

Pithay,  but  now  in  King  Street,  Bristol,  The  Pithay  church  was  doubtless  formed 

inform  us   that    Mr.  Thomas   Munday  soon   after  Mr.  Canne's  visit  to  Bristol, 

was  received  into  the  communion  of  that  since  the  names  of  many  attendants  at 

church  on  the  "18th  of  the  4th  month  Phillip's   church    are    found    in    their 

(June),  1653,"  at  the  same  time  with  records,  as  well  as  in  the  records  of  the 

a   "brother   John  Teague."     We  also  Broadmead  church.    Thus  Mr.  Haynes, 

learn  that  there  was  at  this  time  a  com-  the  tutor  of  Mr.  Terrill,  and  Mr.  Listun, 

pany  of  general  baptists  in  this  city,  for  were  never  members  of  Broadmead,  but 

two  members,  Jane  Williams  and  Mary  are  found  among  the  members  of  the 

Prosser,  were  "  withdrawn  from  the  10th  baptized  church.] 
of  the  ninth  month  (November),  1653/'' 


42  THE    RECORDS 


Anno  1653. 


And  the  next  year,  1653,  another  member,  namely, 
Timothy  Cattle,  being  convinced  of  the  ordinance  of  bap- 
tism, that  none  ought  to  be  partakers  thereof  but  such  as 
profess  faith  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ :  and  when  he  had 
declared  his  desires  of  enjoying  that  ordinance  of  the  Lord,  as 
it  was  delivered  to  us,  and  the  scripture  grounds  for  it  to 
the  church,  they  agreed  that  if  any  were  convinced  of  that 
ordinance,  they  might  practise  it :  desiring  that  such  persons 
so  convinced,  and  practising  that  ordinance  of  baptism  in  that 
scriptural  manner,  would  keep  their  places  in  the  church,  and 
not  leave  their  communion  notwithstanding.  Agreeable  to 
which  agreement  and  desire,  the  church  advised  brother  Cattle 
to  be  baptized  in  London,  he  having  some  occasions  to  go  there 
about  his  private  occasions.1  In  order  thereunto,  the  church 
gave  him  a  letter  to  one  Mr.  Henry  Jessey,2  a  gracious, 
holy,  baptized  minister,  in  London,  desiring  him  to  baptize 
their  said  member,  Timothy  Cattle,  which,  according  to  their 
desire,  he  did.  After  this,  divers  others  of  the  church  were 
baptized,  according  to  scripture  example,  in  a  river. 

But  Satan,  seeing  the  abundance  of  light  of  reformation  in 
this  nation,  envying  the  progress  of  the  doctrine  of  our  Lord 
and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ — justification  freely  by  his  grace, 
he  transformed  himself  into  an  angel  of  light,  and  made  use 
of  popish  Jesuits,  to  creep  abroad,  up  and  down,  in  England. 
Under  the  guise  of  professors  of  truth,  [they]  spread  about 
many  damnable  errors  and  heresies,  beguiling  some  unstable 

1  [It  would  appear  from  the  records  by  Mr.  Henry  Jacob  in   1616.     Many 

of  the  baptized  church,  that  Mrs.  Isabel  of  his  members  becoming  baptists,  and 

Cattle,  the  wife  of  Mr.  Cattle,  had  been  separating  from   his  communion,  led  to 

baptized,  and  received  into  that  church  an  examination  of  the  question  of  in- 

on  the  same  day  as  Mr.  Munday.]  fants'  baptism  on  his  part,  and  in  June, 

3  [Mr.  Henry  Jessey  became  pastor  1645,  he  was  baptized  by  Mr.  Hanserd 

in  1639  of  a  pcedobaptut  church,  formed  Knollys.     Crosby,  i.  3 10.  J 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  43 

professors.  Thereby  Satan  deceived  many  profane  people  to 
embrace  their  upstart  notions  of  quakerism,  under  a  pretence 
of  a  great  degree  of  holiness,  by  hearkening  to  the  light 
within,  which  they  called  Christ,  laying  aside  the  manhood 
of  our  blessed  Redeemer.  When  as  that  light  is  but  the 
light  of  nature,  which,  in  common,  is  planted  in  all  mankind, 
the  same  with  that  the  heathens  and  blackamoors  have,  and 
the  remotest  Indians,  which  know  not  Christ,  nor  never 
heard  of  him ;  and  they  omit  the  light  of  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  and  the  light  of  God's  Spirit,  proceeding  from  the 
Father,  by  the  word,  or  holy  scriptures.  Thus  smoke  out  of 
the  bottomless  pit  arose,  and  the  locust  doctrine  came  forth, 
as  it  is  written,  Rev.  ix.  2,  3,  4. 

At  this  time,  Dennis  Hollister,  a  grocer  in  High  Street, 
being  a  member  of  this  church,  the  meeting  for  conference, 
on  the  fifth  day  of  the  week,  was  usually  at  his  house.  He 
was  naturally  a  man  of  an  high  spirit,  and,  Diotrephes-like, 
loved  to  have  the  pre-eminence  in  the  church ;  and,  at  that 
time,  had  great  influence  upon  the  magistrates  of  the  city, 
and  by  them  was  chosen  to  be  a  parliament-man  for  the  city 
of  Bristol ;  that  is,  one  of  them  called  the  Little  Parliament, 
in  the  days  of  Oliver  Cromwell,  called  Lord  Protector  ;  when 
as  God  alone  was  the  protector  of  his  people,  but  we  sinned.3 

On  this  occasion,  Hollister,  staying  at  London,  had  sucked 
in  some  principles  of  this  upstart  locust  doctrine,  from  a  sort 
of  people  afterwards  called  quakers ;  [so]  that  when  that 
parliament  was  dissolved  by  Oliver,4  Dennis  came  home  from 

3  [Hollister's  name  appears  as  one  Hist.  xx.  178,  183,  232.  Four  days 
of  the  persons  nominated  by  Cromwell  after  the  dissolution  of  this  parliament, 
to  sit  in  the  parliament  of  1653,  as  Cromwell  was  proclaimed  lord  pro- 
representative  for  Somersetshire.  Bur-  tector,  Dec.  16,  1653.  Whitelock,  p. 
ton's  Diary,  iv.  500.      He  was  also  a  .558.] 

member  of  the  council  of  state  appointed  *  [The  little  parliament  resigned  its 

9th  July  ;   but  was  omitted  in  the  new  powers  into  Cromwell's  hands  on  the 

council  appointed  in  November.     Pari.  12th   December;    Baxter  avers  that  it 


44  THE    RECORDS 

London  with  his  heart  full  of  discontent,  and  his  head  full 
of  poisonous  new  notions,  as  was  discerned  by  some  of  the 
members  of  the  church.  And  he  began  to  vent  himself;  and 
at  one  meeting  of  the  church,  after  he  came  down,  he  did 
blasphemously  say,  the  bible  was  the  plague  of  England. 
From  that  time  the  church  would  meet  no  more  at  his  house. 
About  that  time  of  his  notions,  there  came  to  Bristol  two 
men  of  strange  principles,  and  thrust  themselves  into  the 
meetings  of  the  church,  and  would  put  themselves  forward  to 
speak  in  their  tone,  judging  and  condemning  all  that  did  not 
as  they  did — a  spirit  the  church  was  not  acquainted  with, 
nor  with  their  doctrine  of  devils.5  And  these  persons  Dennis 
received  into  his  house,  entertained  them,  and  closed  in  with 
their  doctrine,  and  pleaded  for  them  against  those  that  did 
oppose  them,  or  speak  against  them  as  dangerous  persons, 
and  walking  in  a  spirit  of  delusion.  Which,  at  first,  were  but 
by  few  so  understood :  for  they  came  in  such  a  guise  of  out- 
ward holiness — they  so  transformed  themselves,  that,  as  our 
Saviour  foretold,  if  it  were  possible  they  would  deceive  the  very 
elect,  under  a  pretence  of  living  in  the  Spirit,  and  abandoning 
forms  and  respect  of  persons,  as  Matt.  xxiv.  24,  26 ;  saying, 
Christ  \is]  in  the  secret  chambers :  that  is,  within,  only  in  the 
heart,  the  light  within : — the  finest  thread  the  papist  could 
spin,  seeing  we  would  not  believe  their  old  doctrine,  that 
Christ  and  salvation  were  in  the  desert,  that  is,  the  law, 
(doing  good  works  from  a  wrong  principle  to  merit),  [for]  the 


was  done  at  Cromwell's  instigation.  tol,  to  behold  the  performances  of  John 
But  in  his  speech  to  his  second  parlia-  Audland,  and  Thomas  Airey,  who  came 
ment,  Cromwell  declared  that  he  was  thither  in  the  month  called  July,  in  this 
ignorant  of  their  intention,  and  much  year  (1654),  and  going  into  the  meet- 
surprised  when  the  speaker  appeared  ings  of  the  independents  and  baptists, 
before  him  with  the  act  of  resignation.  they  found  opportunity  to  preach  truth, 
Whitelocke,  p.  558.  Baxter's  Narra-  and  also  had  occasion  to  speak  toothers, 
tive,  p.  70.]  so  that  many  received  their  testimony." 
5  ["  Wc  will  take  a  turn  toward  Bris-  Sewcll's  Hist,  of  Friends,  i.  142.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  45 

law  was  given  in  the  desert ;  therefore,  this  interpretation 
of  the  law  [as]  the  desert,  and  the  secret  chamber  [as]  the 
heart,  which  is  the  secret  part  of  man,  and  most  private 
chamber,  may  well  be  understood.  Of  this  we  see  our 
Saviour  foretold  us,  and  commanded  us  not  to  believe  it. 
And  the  apostle  Paul  saith,  2  Cor.  xi.  13,  14,  15,  that  Satan 
himself  is  transformed  into  an  angel  of  light,  therefore  it  is  no 
great  thing  if  his  ministers  also  he  transformed  as  the  ministers 
of  righteousness ;  whose  end  shall  he  according  to  their  works. 
Thus  they  coming  as  foretold,  they  were  not  known;  but 
afterwards  they  were  called  by  the  name  of  quakers,  from 
people's  shaking  and  quaking  that  received  them  and  their 
doctrine,  and  then  they  were  fixed  to  their  opinion  after  such 
a  fit  upon  them. 

Thus  this  damnable  doctrine,  even  denying  the  Lord  that 
bought  them,  promoted  by  the  Jesuits,  and  assisted  by  evil 
spirits  from  the  devil,  was  founded.  For  divers  persons  were 
seen  in  this  city,  when  hearing  of  them,  to  be  taken  in  such 
a  concution  in  their  bodies,  that  they  would  fall  down  upon 
the  earth,  and  wallowing  upon  the  ground,  would  foam  at 
the  mouth,  like  as  we  read  in  Mark  ix.  20,  and  Luke  ix. 
39 ;  by  which  their  foaming  it  is  evident  it  was  not  the  Spirit 
of  God,  but  the  spirit  of  devils  that  helped  the  fomenters, 
Jesuits  and  papists,  in  carrying  on  this  work,  or  false  doc- 
trine, to  put  the  professors  of  England  in  confusion  in  matters 
of  doctrine ;  seeing  that,  in  those  Oliverian  days  of  liberty, 
they  had  cast  off  all  popery,  and  the  skirts  of  it,  even  common 
prayer,  and  all  unscriptural  forms  of  worship.  And  [when] 
the  papists  saw  that  abundance  of  primitive  light  was  in  the 
nation,  (and  that  the  people  gathered  themselves  into  congre- 
gations, [and]  preached  the  gospel  only,  for  salvation  by  free 
grace,  and  works  but  as  the  fruit  of  a  lively  faith,  no  merit ; 
and  that  they  practised  the  ordinances  of  the  New  Testament,  as 
they  are  delivered  and  recorded  in  the  holy  scripture,  without 


46  THE    RECORDS 

any  addition,  or  detraction  from  the  commands  of  our  Lord 
Jesus,  and  the  example  of  the  apostles  in  the  primitive  churches) 
they  designed  with  the  enemy  to  come  and  sow  tares  among  the 
wheat.  For  that  doctrine  of  the  light  within,  or  Christ  only 
within,  and  their  affected  sanctity,  manner  of  speaking,  and 
brutish  deportment  to  civil  magistrates,  &c.  was  carried  on 
by  the  Jesuits,  and  among  those  opinions  divers  doctrines  of 
the  papist  also  ;  of  which  many  of  the  simple-hearted  among 
them  that  followed  them,  were  like  Absalom's  company, 
2  Sam.  xv.  1 1,  They  went  in  their  simplicity,  and  they  knew  not 
any  thing  thereof,  so  they  were  deceived.  For  many  of  them 
to  this  day  go  about  deceiving,  [and']  being  deceived,  as  it  is 
written,  2  Tim.  iii.  13 ;  and  do  not  know  the  depths  of  Satan 
as  they  speak,  as  Rev.  ii.  24.  Now  that  the  papists,  or 
Jesuits,  carried  on  their  design  as  aforesaid,  among  divers 
other  signal  and  eminent  discoveries,  in  the  nation,  and  in 
this  city  of  Bristol,  these  two  following  may  be  observed. 

Anno  1654. 

The  first  is  this  following  deposition,  taken  before  the 
mayor  that  then  was,  a  copy  whereof  is  as  follows  : — 

Ci vitas  Bristoll.  The  information  of  George  Cowlishay,  of  the 
city  of  Bristol,  ironmonger,  taken  the  22nd  day  of  January, 
1654,— 

Who  informeth  on  oath,  that  in  the  month  of  September  last, 
this  informer  had  some  discourse  in  Bristol  with  one  Mr.  Cop- 
pinger,  an  Irishman,  formerly  a  schoolfellow  of  his,  that  came 
hither  purposely  for  his  passage  into  Ireland,  who  told  this 
informer,  that  he  had  lived  in  Rome  and  Italy  eight  or  nine  years, 
and  had  taken  upon  him  the  order  of  friar  of  the  Franciscan's 
company  ;  and  he  told  this  informer,  that  he  had  been  at  London 
lately,  for  some  months,  and  whilst  he  was  there,  lie  had  been  at 
all  the  churches  and  meetings,  public  and  private,  that  he  could 
hear  «>f,  and   that  none  came  so  near  him  as  the  qunkeis.      And 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  47 

being  at  the  meeting  of  the  quakers,  he  there  met  with  two  of  his 
acquaintance  in  Rome,  that  were  now7  become  chief  speakers 
amongst  the  quakers,  and  that  he  himself  had  spoken  amongst 
them  in  London  above  thirty  times,  and  was  well  approved  of 
amongst  them ;  the  which  two  afore-mentioned  persons  were  of  the 
same  Franciscan  order  and  company.  And  this  informer  further 
saith,  that  the  said  Mr.  Coppinger  asked  him,  what  kind  of 
opinions  in  religion  there  were  in  Bristol  ?  And  this  informer  told 
him,  that  they  were  of  several  opinions  and  judgments.  And  not 
naming  any  of  the  opinion  of  the  quakers,  the  said  Coppinger 
asked  him,  whether  there  had  been  any  quakers  in  Bristol  ?  And 
this  informer  answered  him,  No.  Whereupon  the  said  Mr. 
Coppinger  told  him,  the  said  informer,  that,  if  he  did  love  his 
religion  and  his  soul,  he  should  not  hear  them.  Whereupon 
this  informer  told  him,  he  thought  none  of  them  would  come  to 
Bristol ;  who  presently  replied,  that  if  this  informer  would  give 
him  five  pounds,  he  would  make  it  five  hundred,  if  some  quakers 
did  not  come  to  Bristol,  in  three  weeks  or  a  month  then  following. 
And  on  the  morrow  following,  the  said  Coppinger  departed  from 
this  city  for  Ireland,  his  native  place.  And  about  eighteen  days 
after,  there  came  to  this  city  two  persons  that  bare  the  name  of 
quakers.6 

This  is  a  true  copy  of  the  information,  part  of  which  was 
written  by  old  Mr.  Haynes,  the  schoolmaster,  before-men- 
tioned in  this  book,  and  the  other  part  written  by  me,  at  that 
time,  about  eighteen  years  since,  Edward  Terrill,  that  writ 
this.      By  all  which,  it  is  very  evident  [that]   the  papists, 

6  [Hollister,  in  one  of  the   printed  month,  called  July,  in  the  evening,  and 

papers  to  which  this   affair   gave  rise,  leaving  the  next  day,  delivered  the  word 

corroborates  this,  as  also  Sewell  s  state-  of  the  Lord  to  the  independent  and  the 

ment   before   cited.     He  says,  that   in  baptized  churches  [the  Broadmead  and 

1654,  some  of  the  brethren  near  Ken-  Pithay  churches] ;  the  day  following  they 

dall,  moved,  not  by  man,  nor  by  the  will  passed  unto  Plymouth.     In  September, 

of  man,  but  by  the  Lord,  to  come  to  two  others,  moved  by  the  Spirit,  came 

Bristol,  to  which  place  they  were  wholly  also.     These  were  John  Audland  and 

strangers,  came  on  the  12th  of  the  fifth  John  Camm.] 


48  THE    RECORDS 

by  their  emissaries  and  agents,  did  promote  this  error  and 
delusion.7 

Another  discovery  in  this  city,  that  may  not  altogether  be 
unworthy  of  observation,  was  this,  that  he  that  writes  these 
things  was  an  eye  and  ear-witness  of.  At  that  time,  he, 
living  with  Mr,  Haynes,  was  by  him  sent  to  hear  them,  and 
to  write  after  them,  because  he  could  write  characters  [short 
hand],  and  was  directed  to  the  Skinners'  Hall,  in  Lewins' 
Mead,  where  the  place  was  first  appointed  for  them  to  speak  in 
that  day ;  but  afterwards  it  was  altered  to  Captain  Bishop's 
house,  in  Corn  Street,  where  he  then  lived.  And  when  I  came 
thither,  many  people  being  come  together,  but  the  speakers 
being  not  come,  they  were  waiting  somewhat  long,  and  a 
particular  cluster  or  knot  of  men,  about  half-a-dozen,  standing 
about  the  middle  of  the  hall,  they  were  talking  together ;  and 
I,  standing  by  them,  heard  one  of  them  ask  another,  whether 
(naming  the  proper  name  of  the  speaker)  he  knew  whither  to 
come,  because  he  tarried  so  long?  Another  of  the  said 
cluster  answered,  Yea  ;  I  told  him  the  last  night.  Now  this 
man  that  answered  thus,  I  had  a  great  deal  of  satisfaction  in 
mind  that  he  was  an  Irishman,  being  a  stranger,  and  [that]  I 
had  frequently  seen  him  walking  among  and  along  with  the 
Irishmen,  that  then  were  in  the  city,  and  reputed  papists, 
and  I  esteemed  him  so.  Which  made  me  much  to  wonder, 
that  such  a  one  should  be  an  appointer  of  the  place  and  time 
of  the  Quakers'  meeting,  and  it  raised  up  doubts  in  me 
whether  he  were  not  a  Jesuit.  For  not  long  before  that,  an 
Irish  Jesuit  was  apprehended  in  this  city,  with  his  trinkets, 

7  [This  information  led  to  the  issue  of  Their  chief  crime  appears  to  have  been 

a  warrant  for  the  apprehension  of  several  their  frequent  and  noisy  interruption  of 

quakers  ;  among  them,  George  Fox  and  the  services  of  the  church.    Among  those 

James  Nayler,  as  being  suspected  to  be  interrupted   was   "  priest  Hazzard,"   at 

"  some  of  those  that  came  from  Rome."  Nicholas'  "  steeple  house,"  the  husband 

SewelPs  Hist,  of  Friends,  i.  148.    Many  of  Mrs.  Hazzard.] 
were  arrested,  and  thrown  into  prison. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  49 

and  by  the  magistrates  sent  up  to  the  council.  But  for  my 
further  satisfaction,  to  know  what  that  man  was  that  ap- 
pointed, as  he  said,  the  speaker  where  to  come,  there  being 
at  that  time  an  Irish  papist  boy  at  school  with  Mr.  Haynes, 
the  next  day,  as  the  same  man  passed  by  with  other  Irish- 
men as  formerly,  I  did  ask  the  boy  if  he  knew  that  man 
(pointing  to  him).  And  the  boy  answered,  He  did.  Where- 
upon I  inquired  of  him,  what  he  was?  who  said,  that  the 
man  was  his  countryman.  And  asking  him,  what  religion  the 
man  was  ?  he  said,  he  was  a  Roman  catholic,  of  his  religion. 
But  asking  him,  whether  he  was  not  a  Jesuit  ?  he  said,  he  could 
not  tell  whether  he  had  taken  orders  of  a  priest  or  friar ;  he 
knew  not.  So  that  this  doth  appear,  that  an  Irish  papist 
had  a  hand  in  appointing  the  quakers'  meeting  at  that  time, 
and  who  knows  how  many  since  ? 

All  which  did  more  confirm  me  in  what  I  had  a  little 
before  read  in  those  times,  in  some  printed  papers  that  were 
set  forth  by  some  baptized  friends,8  to  caution  professors  to 
take  heed  of  that  sort  of  people,  called  the  quakers,  because 
they  cried  down  the  holy  scriptures,  and  the  instituted  ordi- 
nances of  our  Lord  and  Saviour,  and  cried  up  a  light  within 
them.  Which  printed  small  paper  books,  further  showed  that 
it  was  the  design  of  Satan,  carried  on  by  papist  also ; 9  and  that 

8  ["Heart  Bleedings  for  Professors'  history  and  shadow,  that  the  scriptures 

Abominations  ....  discovering  some  of  are  but  a  letter,  and  the  ordinances  of 

Satan's  wiles,  &c.     By  the  churches  of  God  but  fleshly  forms,  thereby  labouring 

Christ    in   London,   baptized   into   the  to  beget  in  people's  minds  a  contempt 

name  of  Jesus  Christ,"  fee.     4to.  1650,  and  slight  esteem  of  Christ,  his  word, 

pp.  16.      Signed  by  Spilsbury,  Kiffin,  and  ordinances  ;    and  that  he  [Satan] 

and  fourteen  others.     It  was  reprinted,  might  cheat  them  to  purpose,  tells  them 

with  '*  A  Confession  of  Faith,"  in  1652.  a  God  within,  and  a  Christ  within,  and 

Of  the   quakers  they  write,  that  they  a  Word  within,"  p.  4.  J 
''persuade   the   sons  and  daughters   of  9  [So  Baxter.      "Many  Franciscan 

men,  that  what  is  declared  concerning  friars  and  other  papists,  have  been  proved 

the  death  of  Christ  at  Jerusalem,  and  to  be  disguised  speakers  in   their  (the 

his   bearing  our  iniquities  in   his   own  quakers')  assemblies,  and  to  be  among 

body  upon   the   cross,  is   but   a   mere  them  ;   and  its  like  are  the  very  soul  of 

E 


50  THE    RECORDS 

there  was  an  evil  spirit  went  along  with  that  doctrine,  and 
had  power  over  some,  by  their  speakers  looking  on  them. 

Thus  these  persons  being  come,  and  their  dangerous  pro- 
digious   doctrines   beginning    to   take    with   some    ignorant 
people,  that  were  not  well  acquainted  with  the  sound  princi- 
ples of  religion,  and  with  some  others  that  had  only  the  notions 
of  religion,  and  never  yielded  up  themselves  to  the  Lord  in 
his  ways,  to  walk  in  the  power  of  the  truths  they  heard  or 
knew,    Dennis    Hollister   also,  before-mentioned,  tampering 
with  them,  received  and  embraced  divers  of  their  heterodox 
opinions.     Which   suiting   with  his   naturally   proud  spirit, 
conceiting  well  of  himself,  and  judging  others,  he  cleaved 
unto  them,  and  thought  to  have  drawn  away  all  the  congre- 
gation after  him;    as   he  superbiously  did  use  that   word, 
John  xii.  32,  will  draw   all  men    unto  me.       But  the  Lord 
prevented   him,  having,  in  mercy,  sent  Mr.  Ewins  before- 
mentioned,   to  be  the   church's   teacher,    as  a   Joseph  sent 
beforehand,  to  lead  them  and  keep  them  together,  that  they 
should  not  all  fall  with  that  apostate,  and  those  evil  instru- 
ments :  for  with  this  Dennis,  there  fell  about  eighteen  or  nine- 
teen members  more,  that  rent  away  from  the  church.     But, 
through  grace,  the  rest  of  the  church,  being  the  major  part, 
by  abundance,  they,  the  church,  being  near  sixty  persons  left, 
cleaved  to  the  only  Saviour,  our  crucified  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
for  life  and  salvation,  singly  and  alone  by  him,  through  faith 
in  his  name  ;  and  kept  close  to  the  holy  scripture  for  the  rule 
of  life,  and  to  the  ordinances  of  Christ  laid  down  in  that  holy 
word,  that  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  himself,  and  the  primitive 
saints,  walked  in. 

After  this    grand   rupture,   that   so   many    members   did 

all  these  horrible  delusions."    Narrative,  Cromwell,  in  his  speech  to  parliament 

part  i.  p.  77.  Bishop  Bramhall,  in  a  letter  in   1654,  declared   «  that  emissanes  of 

to  Archbishop  Usher,  asserted  that  in  the  Jesuits  never  came  in  these  swarms, 

HUG   great  numbers  were  in  the  army,  as  tbcy   have   done   since  these  things 

for  the  purpose  of  disseminating  errors,  were   set   on  foot."      Hanbury  s    Hist 

ancl  the  overthrow  of  the  English  church  Mem.hi.224, 477.  Ncal,ii.424,ed.l837.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  51 

backslide  from  that  they  formerly  professed,  owned,  and  joined 
together  in — that  Jesus  Christ,  crucified  without  the  gate  at 
Jerusalem,  was  the  only  Messiah :  and  justification,  before  or 
in  the  sight  of  God,  only  by  him ;  and  obedience  to  the  com- 
mands of  God  only  out  of  love  to  God  in  Christ,  not  for 
merit,  but  as  our  reasonable  service,  Rom.  xii.  1,  for  so  great 
mercy  bestowed  upon  us  in  the  gift  of  God,  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  for  eternal  life  only  by  him.  This,  they  owning,  and 
when  so  many  fell  from  them,  and  [from]  this  gospel  truth,  the 
rest,  being  the  church,  kept  many  days  of  fasting  and  prayer. 

First,  to  know  the  reason  why  so  great  a  breach  was  made 
upon  them. 

Secondly,  and  to  pray  that  those  of  them  that  were  left 
might  be  kept  sound  in  the  faith,  and  be  enabled  to  stand 
fast  in  this  evil  and  declining  day,  wherein  many  turned  their 
backs  upon  the  truth. 

Thirdly,  to  give  them  wisdom  how  to  carry  it  towards  those 
fallen,  to  discharge  their  duty  to  God  and  [to]  them. 

These  three  petitions  were  eminently  answered.  First, 
the  pastor,  or  teacher,  Mr.  Ewins,  and  the  ruling  elder  that 
then  was,  namely,  brother  Robert  Purnell — who,  before  that 
apostacy,  he  was  a  deacon,  but  after  was  chosen  an  elder, 
and  brother  Moone  chosen  a  deacon — I  say,  those  two  were 
pressed  in  their  spirits  to  take  up  the  ordinance  of  baptism, 
of  which  they  were  before  enlightened;  especially  brother 
Purnell,  for  several  years,  had  been  convinced  of  his  duty 
therein,  but  omitted  the  practice  thereof.  Thus,  they 
being  now  stirred  up  to  their  duty,  to  glorify  God  in  their 
day,  in  owning  his  commands  in  the  gospel,  and  [in]  laying 
aside  the  traditions  of  man  in  worship,  these  two,  namely 
Mr.  Ewins  and  Mr.  Purnell,  went  to  London,  and  took  up  the 
ordinance  of  baptism.  And  they  were  accordingly  baptized 
by  brother  Mr.  Henry  Jessey,  after  which  they  came  down, 
and  proceeded  in  the  church  and  work  of  the  Lord. 

E  2 


52  THE    RECORDS 

Thus  there  seemed  to  be  hinted  why  the  great  breach  was 
made,  because  they  had  not  walked  faithful  to  their  light  in 
the  ordinances  of  God  (such  kind  of  fear  was  upon  their 
spirits);  and  that  they  had  not  kept  close  to  the  holy  scrip- 
tures for  the  rule  of  worship,  and  to  the  footsteps  of  the 
flock,  the  example  or  path  of  the  primitive  saints,  recorded  in 
holy  writ ;  and  [they]  blamed  themselves  [in  that]  they  had 
not  rejected  all  notions  of  men  whatsoever  for  matters  of 
worship,  than  what  is  plainly  laid  down  in  the  written  word. 
But,  for  or  in  matters  of  doctrine,  consequences  may,  and 
many  times  ought,  to  be  allowed  ; — as  to  prove  the  resurrec- 
tion of  our  bodies,  and  our  interest  in  the  promises,  and 
God's  call  to,  and  covenant  with  us,  poor  wretched  sinners ; 
and  to  prove  our  receiving  true  grace,  our  effectual  calling 
and  election,  and  our  union  with  Christ  after  the  new  birth, 
repentance  and  faith  in  him;  and  to  prove,  as  the  apostle 
doth— Kom.iii.'20,  28,  and  Rom.  iv.  4,  9,  23,  25 ;  Rom.  v.  1, 
and  Titus  iii.  4,  5 — salvation  to  be  by  free  grace,  not  of 
works,  nor  of  the  will  of  man,  but  alone  of  the  mercy  of  God, 
Rom.  ix.  13 — 16  ;  for  these  things  of  doctrine,  and  such  like, 
may  consequences  be  used. 

But  in  matters  of  worship  we  may  not  use  consequences, 
but  must  come  to  the  institutions  of  Christ,  as  the 
apostle  doth.  When  he  was  instructing  them  in  matters  of 
worship,  I  Cor.  xi.  23,  24,  he  brings  them  to  the  first  cele- 
bration of  the  ordinance,  and  so  the  ordinance  of  the  Lord's 
supper  must  be  always  done.  Therefore  the  ordinance  of 
baptism  must  be  always  so  administered  or  done,  as  at  first 
it  was  done  by  the  apostles,  both  as  to  the  subjects  to 
whom  they  did  it,  which  was  to  believers,  that  is,  [to]  them 
that  had  given  them  a  profession  of  their  faith  ;  and  the 
manner  how  they  did  it,  which  was  by  dipping  them  in 
rivers,  not  sprinkling  them. 

As  to  the  second  petition,  they  then  sought  the  Lord  [for, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  53 

it]  was  graciously  answered  by  him,  for  now  near  twenty 
years  since,  the  Lord  hath  kept  this  church  that  none  of  them 
turned  quakers.  But  one  woman,  a  new  member,  who  some 
time  after  was  received,  and  her  husband  was  propounded  to 
the  church,  he  desiring  to  join  at  the  same  time  with  her; 
but  the  church,  understanding  some  evils  in  his  conversation, 
that  they  found  by  enquiry  [to  be  true,]  they  would  not 
receive  him,  though  they  did  his  wife.  Not  long  after,  he 
turned  a  quaker,  and  ceased  not  in  endeavours,  until  he  had 
overcome  his  wife ;  who,  being  of  a  meek  nature,  was  drawn 
away  by  him.  Thus  the  Lord  hitherto  has  kept  this  church, 
and  divers  quakers  have  been  convinced  of  their  errors,  and 
have  afterwards  been  joined  to  us ;  but  none  of  the  apostates, 
or  those  that  fell  from  the  church,  are  yet  returned. 

As  to  the  third  petition  they  then  sought  the  Lord  for,  by 
fasting  and  prayer,  [it]  was  answered  very  evidently,  by 
quickening  their  spirits  to  oppose  and  resist  that  false  deluded 
spirit.  For  in  those  times,  for  the  seven  years,  until  the 
change  came,  that  they  were  sorely  punished  by  imprison- 
ments and  otherwise,  as  well  as  we  ourselves,  they  would, 
that  is  the  quakers  would,  frequently  come  into  our  assem- 
blies, and  condemn  all  but  themselves.  And  so  like  unto 
Jannes  and  Jambres,  as  they  withstood  Moses,  so  did  these  also 
resist  the  truth :  men  of  corrupt  minds,  reprobate  concerning  the 
faith.  The  good  Lord  grant  they  may  proceed  no  further,  but 
that  their  folly  may  be  manifest,  as  theirs  also  was,  2  Tim. 
iii.  8,  9.  And  as  to  those  members  that  at  first  fell  away 
together,  the  church  was  led  to  send  three  brethren  to  them, 
to  admonish  them  of  their  evils,  in  turning  their  back  upon 
the  Lord,  and  his  ways,  his  truths,  and  ordinances,  [which] 
they  practised  formerly. 

Which  admonition,  consisting  of  five  particulars,  is  as 
follows: — 

[The]  first,  that  they  were  admonished  of,  was  for  leaving 


54  THE    RECORDS 

the  church ;  which  had  three  sad  consequences  :  first,  the 
drawing  of  many  away  from  the  faith  and  ways  of  Christ  in 
the  gospel ;  secondly,  the  stumbling  of  many  weak  souls ; 
thirdly,  the  opening  of  the  mouths  of  many  to  speak  evil  of 
the  ways  of  truth,  as  2  Peter  ii.  2. 

Secondly,  their  contemning  of  some,  and  neglecting  of 
other  the  ways  of  Christ,  or  ordinances  recorded  in  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

Thirdly,  their  extreme  censoriousness,  and  rash  judging, 
not  only  of  persons  abroad,  but  also  of  the  church,  contrary 
to  Matt.  vii.  1,  Rom.  xiv.  3 ;  also  their  calling  the  church 
an  harlot. 

Fourthly,  their  asserting  in  the  church  doctrines  contrary 
to  truth.  As  first,  that  we  did  not  know  what  faith  was, 
and  that  faith  was  an  eternal  thing;  secondly,  that  Christ 
and  faith  were  all  one ;  thirdly,  that  Christ  is  not  the  object 
of  faith. 

Fifthly,  their  speaking  reproachfully  of  the  holy  scriptures; 
affirming  they  were  a  blind  and  a  plague  to  souls ;  and  fur- 
ther, some  of  them  said,  they  were  not  the  word  of  God,  nor 
rule  of  life. 

The  church,  thus  according  to  the  order  of  the  gospel,  sent 
to  these  fallen  members  to  endeavour  their  recovery,  but 
some  of  them  would  not  answer ;  others  of  them  very  con- 
temptuously slighting  the  church,  in  this  their  act,  with  many 
revilings,  as  the  manner  of  those  people  is.  After  some 
months'  time,  the  church  sent,  the  second  time,  an  admonition 
to  them,  which  is  as  followeth :  — 

We,  the  whole  church,  do  again,  the  second  time,  according 
to  the  scripture  rule,  Matt,  xviii.  15 — 20,  Titus  iii.  10,  &c.  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  our  Saviour,  and  in  tender 
bowels  of  pity  and  love  to  your  souls,  beseech,  admonish, 
and  warn  you  to  repent  of  your  sins,  and  refrain  from  your 
evil  ways,  and  to  return  to  the  true  faith,  and  ways  of  the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  55 

Lord  Jesus  Christ,  recorded  in  the  gospel ;  that  if  it  be  pos- 
sible, the  glory  of  God  may  be  recovered,  reproaches,  scandals, 
and  stumbling-blocks  removed,  our  souls  refreshed,  and  your 
souls  eternally  saved ;  which  is  the  desire  and  end  of  the 
church,  in  the  performance  of  this  their  duty  to  the  Lord,  and 
service  to  your  souls. 

We  do  also  appoint  and  desire  three  of  our  brethren,  viz. 
Robert  Simpson,  Richard  Moone,  Robert  Purnell,  to  admo- 
nish them ;  to  whom  we  shall  give  the  particular  things  to 
admonish  each  person  of,  &c. 

Thus  the  church  having  thus  far  done  their  duty,  did  not 
proceed  further  to  cast  them  out  of  the  church,  or  deliver 
them  over  to  Satan,  because  it  was  the  advice  of  some,  as 
Mr.  Cradock,  that  it  need  not,  seeing  they  did  excommuni- 
cate themselves,  by  never  coming  to  the  church.  So  the 
church  did  only  reject  them,  by  declaring  them  no  members 
of  this  church ;  though  others  were  of  opinion,  that  by 
rejection,  in  Titus  iii.  10,  7ra/ocurou,  may  be  understood,  such 
an  excommunication,  or  avoiding,  as  amounts  to  a  delivering 
over  to  Satan;  as  Hymeneus,  2  Tim.  ii.  17,  18,  denying  the 
resurrection,  in  the  1  Tim.  i.  and  last  [verse],  is  delivered  to 
Satan. 

After  this,  Satan,  in  those  quakers,  being  enraged,  Dennis 
Hollister,  one  of  the  apostate  members,  puts  forth  a  book  in 
print  against  the  church,  entitled,  The  Skirts  of  the  Whore 
Discovered.1 

1  ["  The  Skirts  of  the  Whore  Disco-  Thomas  Ewins,  a  teacher  amongst  them, 

vered,  and   the  mingled  people  in  the  referring  to  his  speaking  of  having  Sarah 

midst  of  her.    In  a  letter  sent  by  Dennis  Latchett,  once  a  member  amongst  the 

Hollister   to  the  independent  baptized  baptists,  sent  to  Bridewell,  and  whipped 

people,  who  call  themselves  a  church  of  for  testifying  in  their  meeting,  2nd  day, 

Christ,  in  Bristol,  but  are  found  to  be  ninth  month,  1655,"  &c.    4to.  London, 

a  synagogue  of  Satan.     With  a  letter  to  1556.] 


56  the  records 

Anno  1657. 

In  answer  to  which,  the  church  was  fain  to  put  forth  an- 
other book,  printed  in  the  year  1657,  entitled,  The  Church 
of  Christ,  in  Bristol,  recovering  her  veil  out  of  the  hands 
of  them  that  had  smitten,  wounded  her,  and  taken  it  away.2 

Thus  the  church  proceeded,  and  kept  the  ways  and  ordi- 
nances of  the  Lord  ;  labouring  in  their  generation-work, 
holding  forth  the  gospel  to  the  world,  and  conflicting  with 
this  new,  upstart  error  of  quakerism,  began,  [no  doubt,]  by 
Satan,  and  carried  on  by  his  instruments,  popish  seminaries, 
Jesuits,  and  some  apostate  professors  that  had  not  received 
the  truth  of  our  Lord  in  the  love  of  it,  and  by  some  ignorant, 
bewitched,  and  deluded  people,  that  knew  not  whereof  they 
affirmed.  And  such  quakers,  many  times,  would  come  into 
our  meetings  on  the  Lord's  day,  in  the  open  public  places, 
called  churches  (which  we  had  then  liberty  to  be  in,  during 
all  the  time  of  Oliver's  reign),  and  in  the  midst  of  the  minis- 
ter's sermon,  they  would,  with  a  loud  voice,  cry  out  against 
them,  calling  them  hirelings  and  deceivers,  and  they  would 
say  to  the  people,  they  must  turn  to  the  light  within,  their 
teacher  ;  and  that,  that  was  Christ  within.  Thus,  with  many 
other  railing,  judging,  and  condemning  words,  they  would 
frequently  trouble  us — shaking,  trembling,  or  quaking,  like 
persons  in  a  fit  of  the  ague,  while  they  spake  with  a  screaming 
voice ;  and  would  not  cease  until  they  were  carried  forth  of 
the  place,  pretending  they  were  moved  by  the  Spirit  to  come 
and  warn  us.  Thus  Satan,  transforming  himself  like  an  angel 
of  light,  strove  against  the  true  followers  of  Jesus  Christ. 

a  [An  Answer.   The  Church  of  Christ  a  member  of  her,  but  now  an  apostate 

in  Bristol  recovering  her  veil  out  of  the  and    opposer.       Likewise   a    word    by 

hands  of  those  who  have  smitten  and  Thomas  Ewin  unto  what  concerns  him 

wounded  her,  and  taken  it  away.    Being  in  the  said  pamphlet;  and  another  called 

a  just  and  necessary  vindication  from  a  Satan  Enthroned   in  his  Chair  of  Pesti- 

false   and   scandalous    imputation   cast  lence.     4to.  1657.] 
upon  her  by  Dennis  Ilollister,  formerly 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  57 

These  against  the  doctrine  of  our  Lord  Jesus,  and  others 
against  the  discipline.  As  our  friends,  called  presbyterians, 
those  of  them  that  were  bitter-spirited,  or  rigid,  they  would 
vilify  our  ministry,  and  their  call ;  saying,  they  were  not  true 
ministers,  because  not  called  and  ordained  in  their  way,  by  a 
classical  or  synodical  assembly,  and  not  brought  up  at  the 
university  for  such  literature. 

And  because  we  met  in  houses,  divers  times  in  the  week- 
days, for  the  church  meeting,  for  to  exercise  the  gifts  of  the 
church,  by  way  of  conference,  or  for  prayer  in  preparation 
to  the  Lord's  supper,  once  a  month,  or  for  prayer  on  other 
special  or  emergent  occasions  :  these  things  they  did  not 
then  understand,  or  less  practise,  therefore  they  spake  evil 
of  us  as  seducers.  But  under  all  these  calumnies,  upon  the 
right  hand  and  upon  the  left,  this  church  bore  up  with  pa- 
tience, persevering  several  years,  and  increased. 

Anno  1658. 
Brother  Terrill  baptized.3 

EDWAED   TERRILL'S   EXPERIENCE. 
Laus  Deo.  Eben  Ezer. 

God,  who,  at  sundry  times,  and  in  divers  manners,  spake  unto  the 
fathers  by  the  prophets,  hath  in  these  last  days  spoken  unto  us,  and 
therein  to  me,  by  his  Son,  whom  he  hath  appointed  heir  of  all 
things,  by  ivhom  also  he  made  the  ivorlds ;  who,  being  the  bright- 
ness of  his  glory,  and  the  express  image  of  his  person,  in  holiness, 
and  upholding  all  things  by  the  word  of  his  power,  ivhen  he  had  by 
himself  purged  our  sins,  and  therein  mine,  sat  down  on  the  right 
hand  of  the  Majesty  on  high. 

Seeing  the  Lord  hath,  at  sundry  times,  and  in  divers  manners, 
spoken  unto  me,  I  thought  it  meet  for  his  glory,  and  the  comfort 

3  [This  is  inserted  in  the  margin  in  the  church  book,  but  on  a  separate  paper, 
handwriting  of  Mr.  Terrill.  His  ex-  He  says  no  more  of  his  baptism  than 
perience,  left  by  himself,  is  not  in  the       he  has  written  above.] 


58  THE    RECORDS 

of  my  own  soul,  to  record  so  much  as  he  shall  bring  to  my 
remembrance.  As  the  apostle  saith,  by  nature  I  was  a  child  of 
wrath.  I  have  strong  reasons  to  believe  it ;  first,  observing  the 
aptness  of  my  nature  to  that  which  was  contrary  to  the  divine 
nature.  Secondly,  the  readiness  of  my  will  to  assent  to  the 
inclination  to  sin,  and  to  seek  opportunities  to  act  it,  that  visible 
eyes  might  not  see  it,  for  then  I  seldom  thought  of  the  invisible 
Eye  that  beholds  all.  Calling  to  mind  that  which  was  done  by 
me  when  I  was  not  five  years  old,  I  had  both  these  in  me ;  and 
although  through  grace  the  second  be  subdued,  yet  the  first  is 
continually  following  me,  which  is  a  burden  to  me.  Through 
mercy,  I  find,  when  that  evil  is  conceived  in  me,  two  things 
follow  it :  a  loathing  of  it,  and  an  indignation  against  myself,  that 
ever  such  a  wicked  thought  should  arise  in  me. 

When  I  was  about  the  age  of  six  years,  living  with  my  aunt, 
I  remember,  according  to  my  childish  understanding,  I  had 
inclinations  to  imitate  what  was  written  in  the  holy  scriptures, 
doubting,  like  a  child,  when  I  went  backward  towards  a  place, 
that  I  did  not  do  right,  and  that  the  Lord  would  be  angry  for  it — 
whether  I  read  Jer.vii.  24,  or  xv.  6,  I  know  not.  And  so  of  back- 
biting, if  a  man  did  speak  with  his  face  behind  another  man,  I 
would  ask  whether  it  was  backbiting.  Also,  I  remember  when 
my  aunt,  on  a  time,  sent  me  to  the  door  with  victuals  to  a  poor 
body,  that  I  put  my  hand  behind  me,  because  the  scripture  saith, 
Let  not  thy  left  hand  know  what  thy  right  hand  doeth. 

Although  these  were  foolish  things,  I  believe  some  good  was 
distributed  towards  me  then,  in  the  inclinations ;  for,  as  Solomon 
saith,  A  child  is  known  by  his  doings,  whether  his  work  be  pure,  or 
whether  it  be  right,  Prov.  xx.  11.  Also,  I  remember,  that  not- 
withstanding I  did  fear  going  with  my  back  towards  a  place  was 
a  sin,  yet,  so  base  was  the  conscience  corrupted,  that  I  would 
sometimes  go  so,  which  I  conceive  was  the  product  of  original 
sin.  After  these  things,  being  about  six  years  old,  and  somewhat 
upwards,  I  was  taken  from  my  aunt,  and  brought  to  live  in  this 
city  of  Bristol,  with  my  mother,  where,  with  other  children,  I 
\\;i-  very  wicked,  according  to  my  age. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  59 

Such  was  my  nature  till  eleven  years  old,  when  I  went  appren- 
tice, and  then  sometimes  I  had  good  thoughts,  resolving  to  pray 
to  the  Lord  to  be  my  father,  (for  my  father  died  when  I  was 
about  four  years  old ;)  and  would  pray  in  a  place  by  myself  every 
day,  but  it  would  not  hold  long.  Then,  after  a  while,  would  set 
about  the  work  of  praying  again,  and  so  continue  for  a  time. 

As  for  any  comfort  from  the  scriptures,  I  remember  none,  till  I 
had  served  about  five  or  six  years,  and  then  reading  in  a  prayer- 
book,  wherein  was  a  prayer  made  to  Ps.  cxvi.  12 — the  words  are 
these,  What  shall  I  render  unto  the  Lord  for  all  his  benejits  ? — I 
remember  I  was  much  taken  with  that  scripture,  the  words  being 
so  suitable  to  what  was  in  my  heart.  I  was  very  sensible  of  the 
Lord's  mercies  unto  me,  therefore  it  was  often  upon  my  mind,  and 
I  was  also  affected  with  the  prayer  that  was  made  to  that  verse, 
insomuch  that  I  wrote  it  out  in  characters,  and  learned  it  by 
heart ;  for  I  had  such  a  sense  of  the  Lord's  goodness  to  me,  that 
I  knew  not  what  to  render  for  his  love.  This  continued  for  a 
time,  but  I  lived  very  wicked  and  vain  for  about  two  years  and 
upwards  after. 

And  then  being  come  to  nineteen  years  of  age  and  a  half,  the 
Lord  was  pleased  to  begin  a  work  on  my  soul. 

Glory  be  to  Him  on  high, 

Who  was  pleased  to  send 
Jesus  Christ,  for  me  to  die, 

And  eke  his  help  to  lend. 
Before  that  I  was  made, 

Jesus  Christ  was  sent, 

For  a  good  intent, 
That  I  might  never  fade  ; 
But  in  his  courts  to  flourish  still,  and  stand, 
And  also  dwell  in  his  holy  land. 

Upon  the  17th  of  September,  1654,  being  Saturday,  I  was  at  a 
neighbour's  shop,  where  one  that  was  there  read  in  one  of  Aris 
Evans's  books,  that  though  the  people  of  God  (meaning  the  Cava- 
liers) did  suffer  for  a  time,  yet  that  God  would  revenge,  or  vindicate 
them;  and,  speaking  against  the  puritans,  that  they  were  [nof|  in 
truth.     This  made  me  to  fear  that  I  was  not  in  the  right  way,  for 


60  THE    RECORDS 

I  did  usually  hear  Mr.  Ewins,  who,  I  knew  by  his  preaching, 
did  own  and  hold  with  the  puritans. 

At  the  same  time,  one  told  for  certain,  that  there  were  two 
prophets  put  in  prison,  in  France,  for  prophesying  [that]  the  world 
would  be  at  an  end  in  1656,  not  two  years  to  come  ;  which  struck 
upon  me  such  fear,  by  reason  [that]  the  world  was  so  near  an  end, 
and  I  not  prepared,  that  I  knew  not  what  to  do.  And  so  much 
the  more  was  my  trouble,  because  I  feared  I  was  not  in  the  right 
way,  by  reason  [that]  Aris  Evans  did  speak  so  much  against 
those  I  did  hear,  justifying  himself  to  be  a  true  prophet  by  many 
circumstances  related  in  his  book; — one  was  this,  that  when  he 
was  a  child,  there  came  a  stranger,  in  the  form  of  a  minister,  and 
laid  his  hands  upon  him,  speaking  some  words,  foretelling  what 
he  should  be  ;  and  that,  according  to  the  scripture,  his  father  was 
one  that  did  freely  entertain  strangers,  and  that  the  said  stranger 
went  away,  and  they  knew  not  whence  he  was,  nor  whither  he  went. 
Therefore  he  so  left  it,  as  though  it  was  an  angel  that  did  thus 
appear ;  by  these  words  I  could  not  conceive  but  that  he  was  a 
true  prophet.  When  I  went  in  that  evening,  I  prayed  to  the 
Lord,  that  he  would  lead  me  in  the  right  way. 

The  next  day,  being  the  sabbath,  notwithstanding  I  was 
doubtful  of  the  way,  I  went  to  sermon  as  formerly,  at  the  usual 
place,  and  after  the  evening  sermon  I  put  my  bible  in  my  pocket, 
and  had  thought  to  go  to  the  meeting  that  was  usually  after 
sermon  in  the  castle,  at  the  governor's,  Colonel  Scroope's  house. 
When  I  came  to  the  door  of  my  master's  house,  I  had  a 
great  conflict,  whether  I  should  go  thither,  or  down  to  my 
mother's,  where  I  did  use  to  go  after  sermons.  At  length  I  fol- 
lowed that  motion  that  would  have  me  go  to  the  meeting,  and  to 
the  meeting  I  came.  No  sooner  had  I  sat  down,  and  beheld  the 
people,  but  these  words  darted  into  my  breast,  This  is  the  way, 
walk  in  it,  with  such  joy  in  my  soul,  that  I  could  almost 
have  wept  for  joy,  the  tears  standing  in  my  eyes.  Now  I  did 
not  know  that  those  words  were  written  in  scripture,  but  did 
conceive  it  to  be  an  answer  from  God  to  me,  and  so  it  continued 
upon  my  heart. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  61 

Sometime  after  this  (five  or  six  weeks),  reading  in  a  book  of 
Mr.  Purnell's,  called  The  Way  to  Heaven  Discovered,  I  met 
with  those  words,  Isa.  xxx.  21,  which  when  I  found  I  was  more 
confirmed  that  it  was  of  God,  because  it  was  scripture,  as  the 
Spirit  of  God  doth  usually  work  according  to  the  written  word. 
This  was  of  great  comfort  to  me.  It  lay  so  much  upon  my 
heart,  that  I  told  it  unto  one  of  my  familiar  acquaintance,  a 
young  man,  a  servant  to  that  neighbour  in  whose  shop  I  heard 
those  things  that  the  Lord  made  use  of  to  strike  terrors  into  me ; 
but  he,  as  there  was  cause  to  fear,  being  too  much  like  me,  in 
that  carnal  state,  ministered  but  little  comfort  to  me.  Yet  the 
Lord  made  it  of  use  to  me  to  draw  me  nearer  unto  him  ;  but  I 
was  a  heavy  lump  of  sin.  I  followed  but  very  slowly  after  him, 
but  rather  did  continue  in  my  former  sinful  courses,  though 
not  so  publicly  as  others,  but  bad  enough  secretly.  And  since  I 
received  that  mercy,  I  later  have  feared  I  was  very  foolish  and 
wicked  with  some  maids  that  lived  in  the  house,  often  playing 
together  very  foolishly,  especially  with  a  servant  that  was  a  great 
temptation  unto  me,  that  I  knew  not  how  to  leave  off.  Nay, 
though  sometimes  my  heart  smote  me  for  speaking  such  an 
unbecoming  word  as  I  did  to  her  once,  which  [has]  often  since 
troubled  my  mind,  and  several  times  the  Lord  did  touch  me  when 
I  was  in  the  act  of  foolish  tricks,  I  would  endeavour  to  put  it  off, 
saying  it  was  not  sin.  Sometimes  I  was  fearful  it  was  sin, 
yet  knew  not  how  to  leave  it.  But  horrid  wicked  thoughts  I 
had,  as  that  where  sin  did  abound  grace  did  much  more  abound. 
Oh,  the  riches  of  God's  grace  to  a  rebellious  one,  that  stood  out 
in  known  sin  !  Had  not  the  Lord  been  gracious  at  that  time,  I 
should  have  fallen  into  that  sin  of  fornication ;  but  he  restrained 
me.  The  praise  to  him  !  To  my  shame  I  write  it,  that  I  should 
be  so  obdurate,  notwithstanding  I  received  such  mercy  before ; 
for  I  have  many  times  feared  it  was  since  the  Lord  did  begin  to 
work  upon  me.  Shortly  after,  my  mistress  and  the  maid  dis- 
agreeing, she  went  away.  I  was  glad  she  was  gone  ;  to  the  next 
I  kept  myself  more  estranged. 

After  this,  I  cannot  tell  how  long,  Mr.  Ewins  preached  upon 


62  THE    RECORDS 

Rom.  iv.  18,  which  he  applied  thus : — That  every  soul  should  do 
the  like  in  respect  of  his  soul,  seeing  God  hath  said,  whosoever 
believeth  shall  be  saved,  we  should  believe  in  hope  against  hope ; 
which  words  begat  a  resolution  in  me  to  do  the  like.  I  resolved 
to  cast  myself  upon  the  sure  mercies  and  promises  of  God. 
This  the  Lord  made  as  food  unto  me,  in  the  strength  whereof  I 
walked  for  a  great  while,  till  I  began  to  fear  my  faith  was  but 
presumption  ;  but  hearing  a  minister  that  was  come  to  the  city, 
and  who  formerly  lived  in  the  city,  I  was  comforted  in  some 
measure.  For  in  his  teaching  he  showed,  that  to  believe  without 
obedience  was  presumption,  which  did  comfort  me  ;  for  my  soul 
and  conscience  did  witness  that  there  was  the  obedience  of 
willingness,  though  not  in  perfectness. 

But  to  notice  time  in  order — for  I  think  the  answer  concerning 
presumption  was  somewhat  later — for  about  a  twelvemonth  after, 
I  observed  the  particular  dealings  of  the  Lord  unto  me.  For  I 
do  now  note  it  to  be  a  call  unto  my  soul,  for  which  I  have  cause, 
and  do  desire,  to  praise  his  name,  namely,  [on]  the  eleventh  of 
the  sixth  month,  or  August,  1655,  being  Saturday,  my  master 
went  away,  but  did  not  tell  me  he  would  be  absent  for  no  longer 
than  a  fortnight.  The  Lord  in  the  meantime  put  it  upon  my 
heart  to  seek  to  him,  by  keeping  a  day  of  prayer  and  fasting,  to 
know  his  mind  touching  the  ordinance  of  baptism  ;  by  reason  a 
little  before,  the  minister  whom  I  did  hear,  and  minister  of  that 
church  where  the  Lord  said  unto  me,  This  is  the  way,  walk  in 
it,  and  some  others,  had  passed  under  that  ordinance.  I  resolved 
to  seek  for  direction  in  that  thing  before  my  master  came  home, 
but  how  to  have  a  day's  liberty  I  knew  not,  being  a  servant, 
and  I  was  to  be  at  my  master's  business  all  day.  Seeing  I 
could  not  have  a  day  in  the  week,  I  concluded  to  keep  the  next 
Lord's  day  following,  which  was  the  nineteenth. 

The  day  being  come,  I  set  about  the  work,  but  with  abundance 
of  weakness ;  went  to  the  public  ordinance  as  at  other  times,  but 
after  and  between  both  sermons  I  prayed  and  read  the  scriptures, 
sometimes  reading  in  one  place,  and  sometimes  in  another. 
There  arose  a  desire  in  me  to  read  the  promise  of  the  Lord  to 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  63 

Joshua,  in  the  place  where  his  apostles  apply  it  to  other  believers. 
I  read  until  the  seventh  verse,  and  [there]  stayed,  my  thoughts 
giving  me  that  that  was  an  answer  unto  me  what  I  should 
do,  the  words  being,  Remember  them  which  have  the  rule  over 
you,  who  have  spoken  unto  you  the  word  of  God;  whose  faith 
follow,  Heb.  xiii.  7.  I  read  not  much  further,  taking  it  as  from 
the  Lord  that  I  should  follow  their  faith.  Of  all  thoughts  then 
in  my  heart,  this  had  most  predomination  in  me,  and  so  did  [I] 
desire  to  return  praise  unto  the  Lord  for  his  mercy  in  answering 
my  petition  so  clearly  the  first  time.  I  was  drawn  forth  by  fast- 
ing and  prayer,  which  was  of  great  use  and  encouragement  to 
me  for  the  future  to  go  before  the  Lord  in  like  manner. 

After  that  day,  as  I  think  about  three  quarters  of  a  year,  I  was 
under  a  great  spirit  of  bondage  and  fear  when  I  was  going  to 
bed,  fearing  what  would  become  of  me  when  I  was  dead.  I  was 
afraid  I  should  not  wake  again,  and  then  woe  would  be  unto  me. 
Glad  I  was,  when  I  did  awake  in  the  morning,  that  I  had  one 
day  more ;  but  was  sore  afraid  at  night  again,  and  durst  not 
venture.  At  last  Rom.  x.  9,  came  into  my  mind,  That  if  thou 
shalt  confess  with  thy  mouth  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  shalt  believe  in 
thine  heart  that  God  hath  raised  him  from  the  dead,  thou  shalt 
be  saved.  And  it  did  much  comfort  me,  and  satisfy  my  troubled 
spirit ;  for  when  I  had  again  and  again,  upon  my  knees,  confessed 
Jesus  Christ  with  my  mouth  unto  the  Lord,  and  could  say  with 
plainness  of  heart  that  I  did  believe  he  had  raised  him  from  the 
dead,  I  had  some  peace,  casting  my  soul  upon  the  promise  of 
God,  and  hoped  I  should  be  saved  if  I  did  die  that  night.  A 
man  living  not  far  from  my  master's  house  went  to  bed  at  nine 
o'clock,  and  was  dead  by  eleven.  The  dying  so  suddenly  was  the 
occasion  of  my  fear ;  but  my  sins,  and  not  being  prepared,  the  cause. 

Upwards  of  half  a  year  after  this,  namely,  upon  March  16, 
1656,  upon  a  Monday,  being  the  day  my  apprenticeship  was 
ended,4  I  kept  a  fast  between  the  Lord  and  myself;  desiring  to 
return  praise  to  him  for  bringing  me  to  see  that  day,  and  that  I 

[4  From  which  it  would  appear  that  E.  Terrill  was  born  in  1634  or  1635.] 


64  THE    RECORDS 

might  enter  into  his  service,  and  be  his  servant ;  and  every  year 
after  I  kept  that  day.  Being  in  a  certain  place  at  prayer  [on  that 
day],  the  Lord,  as  it  were,  made  me  to  say  I  was  his  servant ; 
only  I  wanted  the  seals  to  my  soul — clear  evidences  and  assurance 
of  God's  love  unto  me. 

About  a  week  after  this,  at  a  lecture  sermon  of  Mr.  Ewins,  I 
was  more  comforted  when  I  heard  him  name  the  characters  of  a 
Christian,  as  I  think  from  John  i.  12.  The  characters  were 
these : — 

1.  He  that  hath  received  Christ  can  remember  the  time  when 
he  was  without  Christ. 

2.  He  can  tell  some  work  of  Christ  upon  his  soul,  though  but 
little. 

3.  He  hath  forsaken  something  for  Christ, — some  evil  way, 
idle  word,  or  lust. 

4.  He  is  laid  very  low  in  himself,  in  his  own  eyes. 

5.  That  soul  that  hath  received  Christ  doth  account  it  a  very 
great  work. 

6.  He  hath  many  longings  after  Christ,  especially  for  three 
things : — 

1.  That  the  soul  might  know  him  more  ;  2.  Might  have  more 
communion  with  him  ;  3.  Might  be  made  more  comformable  to 
him. 

7.  He  hath  in  some  measure  a  heart  purified,  and  a  life 
reformed. 

8.  He  hath  received  not  only  a  part,  but  a  whole  Christ. 

9.  He  will  not  willingly  depart  from  Christ. 

10.  He  doth  give  up  his  soul  to  Christ. 

I  was  very  joyful  when  I  heard  these  characters,  because, 
through  grace,  I  could  say  some  of  them  (if  not  somewhat  of  all) 
I  could  find  in  me  ;  in  the  strength  whereof  I  walked  for  a 
season,  being  somewhat  cheerful  as  to  the  state  of  my  soul ;  and 
my  judgment  being  satisfied  as  to  baptism,  that  it  was  to  be 
administered  to  believers,  and  not  to  children. 

About  two  months  after  my  time  was  out,  some  going  to  join  with 
the  church,  I  was  willing  to  join  also.    My  desires  being  tendered 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  65 

to  the  church,  they  appointed  a  time  to  speak  with  me  and  the 
rest,  to  give  an  account  of  the  work  of  God  on  our  souls.  The 
time  being  come,  I  was  resolved  not  to  make  the  most  of  it,  nor 
to  tell  all  that  I  knew  was  of  use  and  comfort  to  me,  being  willing 
to  have  the  greater  testimony  in  myself  if  they  should  admit  me. 
Having  done  as  I  intended,  they  declared  that  I  might  have 
fellowship  with  them.  The  time  was  appointed  for  our  receiving 
the  ordinance  of  baptism,  for  so  many  as  desired  it ;  but  a  day  or 
two  before  we  were  to  receive  it,  Providence  cast  a  book  before 
me  that  spake  against  it,  and  a  book  of  Dionysius,  the  Areopa- 
gite,  mentioned  Acts  xvii-  34,5  which  put  me  to  a  stand  that  I 
knew  not  what  to  do ;  therefore  forbore  taking  up  the  ordinance. 
After  this,  one  lent  me  a  book  of  Mr.  Baxter's,  pleading  for 
children's  church  membership,6  and  this  drove  me  further  from 
the  truth.  And  so  I  continued  about  a  year  and  a  half,  not 
satisfied  in  one  or  the  other.  I  was  so  wavering  that  I  could  not 
join  with  the  church  in  the  Lord's  supper,  although  they  w^ould 
have  admitted  me  ;  as  their  manner  is  to  receive  persons  if  they 
conceive  the  Lord  hath  wrought  a  work  of  grace  in  them,  and 
not  for  opinions'  sake  But  according  to  the  scriptures,  a  person 
ought  to  be  baptized  before  he  receive  the  Lord's  supper  :  now  if 
I  could  have  been  satisfied  that  the  sprinkling  I  received  in  my 
infancy  was  a  sufficient  baptism,  I  could  have  joined,  as  being 
already  baptized ;  or  if  it  was  not  baptism,  I  would  have  been 
baptized.  I  had  no  peace  when  I  did  think  how  I  stood  off 
from  the  Lord's  people.  Sometimes  when  I  should  see  them 
break  bread,  I  should  weep  to  see  myself  shut  out. 

One  time  after  seeing  them  partake,  I  wept ;  complaining  to 
the  Lord  in  my  soul  that  he  kept  me  off,  not  satisfying  me  of  his 

5  [Several  spurious  works  are  attri-  L696.     Wall's  History  of  Infant  Bap- 

buted  to  this  convert  of  Paul.     Among  tism,  i.  528.     Cotton's  edition,  Oxford, 

them  is  one,  De  Ccelesti  Hierarchia,  in  1836.] 

which  he  confirms  the  baptism  of  infants  6  [Plain  Scripture  Proof  of  Infants' 

by  an  ancient  tradition.     "  We  declare  Church-membership  and  Baptism,  &c. 

that,"  says  he, "  which  our  bishops  have  By  Rich.  Baxter,  4to.  London,  1653, 

taught  us  according  to  an  ancient  tradi-  third  edition.] 
tion."— Du  Pin.  Bib.  Pat.  i.  p.  33,  edit. 

F 


66  THE    RECORDS 

mind.  I  resolved  to  seek  him,  by  setting  a  day  apart,  by  fasting 
and  praying,  to  know  his  mind  which  way  I  should  walk.  When 
the  leisure  week  was  come,  called  Christmas,  I  appointed  the 
work  of  that  day  to  be  seeking  the  Lord  concerning  baptism. 
Providence  directed  me  to  Heb.  ii.  14,  15.  I  had  comfort  where 
it  is  written,  Forasmuch  [then]  as  the  children  are  partakers  of 
flesh  and  blood,  Christ  also  himself  took  part  of  the  same  ;  that 
through  death  he  might  destroy  him  that  had  the  power  of  death, 
that  is,  the  devil;  and  deliver  them  who  through  fear  of  death 
were  all  their  lifetime  subject  to  bondage. 

Afterwards  being  desirous  to  find  where  it  is  written,  /  am  the 
Lord  [thy  God]  that  teacheth  thee  to  profit,  having  a  concordance 
in  my  bible,  I  found  it  to  be  Isa.  xlviii.  17.  I  was  desirous  to 
see  that  place,  because  some  time  before  discoursing  with  a 
Christian  about  the  dealings  of  God  on  his  soul,  he  minded  these 
words,  relating  what  use  they  were  to  him.  The  next  verse 
seemed  as  a  voice  to  me,  being,  0  that  thou  hadst  hearkened  to 
my  commandments !  then  had  thy  peace  been  as  a  river,  and  thy 
righteousness  as  the  leaves  of  the  sea.  In  my  thoughts  I  could 
not  put  it  off,  being  not  very  desirous,  but  took  it  as  an  answer  to 
my  desire,  that  I  should  have  hearkened  to  what  God  had  said  in 
my  first  request  concerning  baptism,  three  years  and  above 
before,  and  what  I  understood  by  his  word  several  times  after, 
then  my  peace  should  have  been  like  a  river.  I  took  it  as  a 
wonderful  thing  that  the  Lord  should  direct  my  mind  to  read 
such  chapters,  wherein  he  would  answer  my  request.  By  the 
first,  in  Hebrews,  to  strengthen  my  faith  and  assurance  ;  and  by 
this  second,  to  show  me  which  was  his  will ;  that  I  could  not  tell 
how  to  put  it  off,  but  that  I  must  obey  the  Lord  in  his  despised 
command . 

Notwithstanding,  after  this  I  was  fearful  that  it  was  not  from 
the  Lord,  so  that  I  was  forced  again  to  seek  the  Lord,  which  was 
the  first  Wednesday  in  the  first  month,  March,  1658.  The  occasion 
was  thus  : — My  scholars  used  to  have  the  popish  holidays  (us 
they  call  them,  holy).  I  brake  them  first  from  having  the  whole 
days,  and  let  them  have  but  the  afternoons.    Having  thus  reduced 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  67 

them  for  a  great  while,  in  December  1658,  being  the  first  Wed- 
nesday in  the  month,  I  gave  them  that  afternoon  with  this  con- 
dition, [that]  they  would  leave  their  holidays,  and  instead  thereof 
they  should  have  the  first  Wednesday  in  every  other  month. 
They,  like  children,  agreed  ;  willing  [rather]  to  take  one  toy  in 
possession  than  three  in  reversion.  That  which  moved  me  to 
this,  was  a  desire  to  have  some  opportunities  to  hear  Mr.  Stubbs, 
who  preached  at  Phillips',  in  this  city,  in  the  afternoon  of  the 
first  Wednesday  of  every  month.  Having  this  opportunity  in 
March,  1658,  as  above  stated,  it  was  my  desire  again  to  seek  the 
Lord  for  counsel ;  having  set  the  day  apart  by  fasting,  although 
in  the  morning  I  was  necessitated  to  my  calling,  in  the  afternoon, 
being  at  sermon,  I  hearkened  what  word  would  be  spoken  con- 
cerning my  condition,  which  was  known  only  to  God  and  myself. 
Behold  the  next  providence  of  God.  Towards  the  close  of  the 
sermon,  a  child  was  brought  into  the  meeting  place,  called  the 
church,  to  be  baptized,  and  Mr.  Stubbs 7  that  preached  turned  his 
discourse  to  the  thing  he  was  going  to  administer ;  which  direct 
act  of  Providence  to  the  thing  upon  my  heart,  and  which  that 
day  I  besought  the  Lord  to  guide  me  in,  was  a  wonder  to  me. 
Now  that  which  he  had  to  say  was  this  : — 

1.  That  baptism  came  in  the  room  of  circumcision. 

2.  That  by  the  command   of   God  children  were  to   be  cir- 
cumcised. 

3.  They  were  so  till  Christ  came. 

4.  They  were  so  till  Christ  died. 

5.  The  death  of  Christ  was  not  a  loss,  but  a  privilege  ;    if  so, 
why  should  not  children  be  baptized  ? 

7  [Mr.  Heu.  Stubbs,  M.A.,  of  Wad-  ever,   preached  for  some  years  in  the 

ham   College,  Oxford,  first  minister  of  parish    church   of    Horsley.      He  died 

Philips1,  Bristol ;  he  afterwards  went  to  July  7,  1678.     Mr.  Baxter    preached 

Chew   Magna.      In    1654    he   was  at  his  funeral  sermon.     "  I  scarce,"  says 

Wells,  and  an  assistant  to  the  Comrnis-  Baxter,  "  remember  the  man  that  ever 

sioners  for  the  ejection  of  ignorant  and  I  knew,  that   served   God    with    more 

scandalous   ministers ;    but   the   act    of  absolute  resignation  and  devotedness,  in 

uniformity  found  him  at  Dursley.     By  simplicity  and   godly  sincerity." — Pal- 

the  connivance  of  the  bishop  he,  how-  mer's  Noncon.  Mem.  i.  539.] 

F    2 


68  THE    RECORDS 

Then  he  asked  the  child's  father  what  he  did  believe,  it  being 
the  clerk  of  the  place,  and  told  him,  that  when  his  child  was  grown 
to  years,  he  must  come  and  present  him  in  the  congregation  as 
one  brought  up  in  the  faith,  and  there  to  give  an  account  of 
it,  and  so  commend  the  child  so  grown  to  the  congregation. 
This  being  ended,  I  considered  what  the  Lord  taught  me  thereby. 
That  which  lay  upon  my  heart  most,  was,  What  a  sandy  founda- 
tion this  was  to  build  upon.  As  for  those  five  things  he  men- 
tioned, it  was  discovered  to  me  there  might  be  as  much  said  for 
children  to  receive  the  Lord's  supper ;  which  they  do  not  allow, 
as,  indeed,  they  should  not.     For, 

1.  If  baptism  came  in  the  room  of  circumcision,  the  Lord's 
supper  came  in  the  room  of  the  passover. 

2.  Children  were  to  eat  of  the  passover,  i.  e.,  such  as  were 
able  to  eat  meat. 

3.  They  did  eat  of  it  till  Christ  came. 

4.  They  did  eat  of  it  till  he  died ;  for  Jesus  himself  when  a 
child  went  with  his  parents  to  eat  the  passover. 

5.  Though  Christ's  death  was  an  unspeakable  benefit,  yet,  if 
Christ's  death  did  not  put  an  end  to  that  administration,  why  do 
they  not  let  children  be  partakers  of  the  Lord's  supper,  as  some 
write  was  a  thing  practised  six  hundred  years  ago,  till  they  saw 
no  warrant  for  it  ? 

As  to  that  book  that  stumbled  me  at  first,  I  was  satisfied  by 
providence  that  brought  another  book  to  my  hand,  called,  The 
Protestant's  Evidence,  that  did  prove  that  that  book  which  the 
papists  call  Dionysius,  was  written  four  hundred  years  after 
Christ,  and  therefore  none  of  the  Dionysius  the  Areopagite. 
And  as  to  Mr.  Baxter's  book,  the  great  drift  of  his  volume  is  to 
prove  children  church  members.  In  the  times  of  my  ups  and 
downs,  the  Lord  satisfied  me  that  there  was  the  same  repeal  for 
that  as  for  the  seventh  day  sabbath ;  which  is,  the  example  and 
practice  of  the  apostles  and  Christians  in  the  primitive  time ;  and 
where  the  scripture  hath  not  a  mouth  to  speak,  we  must  not  have 
an  ear  to  hear.  What  they  stretch  from  the  word  household  is  a 
very  uncertain  consequence  ;  for  in   December,  1058,  I  reckoned 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  69 

above  twenty  households  in  the  street  where  I  lived,  namely, 
Corn  Street,  that  had  not  one  child  in  them,  I  mean  :  in  the 
quality  of  a  child,  but  such  as  were  grown  persons. 

Praised  be  the  Lord  for  not  letting  me  any  longer  stand  out 
against  the  simplicity  of  his  gospel,  that  so  at  the  great  day  of 
account,  when  the  hearts  of  all  men  shall  be  revealed,  my  con- 
science may  clear  me,  that  I  took  up  that  ordinance  only  in 
obedience  to  his  holy  will.  I  found  God,  which  seeth  in  secret, 
to  reward  openly,  in  giving  answer  by  those  that  were  against 
that  truth,  though  some  I  believe  to  be  precious. 

Praises  to  the  Lord. 

Anno  1658. 

At  length,  on  the  third  of  September,  1658,  Oliver 
Cromwell,  that  took  upon  himself  the  place  of  Protector 
of  England,  died,8  and  his  son  Richard  was  proclaimed 
Protector. 

Anno  1659. 

And  on  the  sixth  day  of  the  third  month,  or  May,  1659, 
he  was  displaced,  and  the  Commonwealth,  or  old  parliament, 
that  Oliver  dissolved,  anno  1653,  sat  again;9  during  all 
which  time  we  had  peace. 

Anno  1660. 

But  upon  the  twenty-ninth  day  of  the  third  month, 
anno   1660,  when  King  Charles   II.   was  brought  from  his 

8  [Whitelocke,  p.  675.]  together  the  remnant  of  the  long  par- 

9  [The  dismission  of  his  parliament  liament,  he  quietly  withdrew  into  pri- 
on the  22nd  of  April  was  the  last  offi-  vate  life,  without  any  formal  abdication 
cial  act  of  Richard.  On  the  publishing  of  his  authority. — Burton's  Diary,  iv. 
of  the  Declaration  of  the  6th  of  May  484.     Whitelocke,  p.  678.] 

by   the    officers  of    the   army,    calling 


70  THE    RECORDS 

exile  1  again,  into  the  nation  and  to  the  crown,  then  Satan 
stirred  up  adversaries  against  us,  and  our  trouble  or  per- 
secution began.  And  then  our  friends  of  the  presbyterian 
party,  were  turned  out  of  their  public  places  as  well  as  we. 
Then  those  who  had  preached  against  us  for  meeting  in 
private  houses,  they  were  fain  to  meet  in  private  houses  as 
we  had,  and  did  do.  For  then,  when  our  pastor  or  teacher, 
Mr.  Ewins,  was  turned  out  of  those  public  places  called 
Nicolas  and  Christchurch,  (then)  we  first  met  every  Lord's 
day  at  our  pastor's  house,  in  the  castle,  and  there  we 
continued  a  long  time  ;  but  being  straitened  for  room,  we 
took  a  large  place  or  hall,  towards  the  end  of  Broadmead, 
called  the  Friars,  which  formerly  had  been  some  chapel ;  and 
there  we  continued,  holding  forth  the  gospel  of  God's  free 
grace  by  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.2 

And  in  the  tenth  month  [December],  1660,  orders  come 
that  all  above  sixteen  years  of  age  must  take  the  oaths 
of  allegiance  and  supremacy ;  which  many  scrupled  to  do, 
because  of  the  extensiveness  of  some  words  in  the  oath  of 
allegiance ;  as  the  words  whatsoever  and  otherwise.3  Where- 
upon the  brethren  only,  of  our  and  brother  Hynam's  congre- 
gation, met  together,  and  discoursed  our  judgments,  and 
searched  the  scriptures,  concerning  our  duty  and  subjection 
to  magistrates ;  in  which  we  all  agreed,  [that]  concerning 
civil  matters  they  ought  to  be  reverenced  and  obeyed.  And 
to  give  them  some  assurance  of  it,  we  drew  up  in  writing 
our  sense,  and  in  what  terms  we  could  engage  ourselves ; 
which  was  consonant  to  the  scripture,  and  we  did  judge  it  as 
full  as  the  oath  of  allegiance  ;  which  we  sent  by  two  messengers 


1  [The  king  made  his  solemn  entry  formerly    belonged    to    the    Franciscan 

into  London  on  the  29th  of  May,  1660.  friars.] 

— Whitelocke,  p.  703.]  3  [See   Tracts   on    Liberty   of   Con- 

1  [Some  remains  of  an  old  chapel  and  science,  pp.   136,  306—  308. — Hanserd 

dining    hall    are    still    standing ;     they  Knollys  Society.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  71 

to  the  mayor  of  the  city,  who  then  was  Sir  Henry  Creswick. 
He  sent  the  same  writing  up  to  the  king  and  council,  and 
ordered  us  to  be  let  alone  for  some  time,  until  he  had  answer 
from  above ;  which  within  a  month  came,  and  was,  that  we 
must  take  the  oath  according  to  the  letter  of  the  law,  and 
not  in  other  words ;  but  Sir  Henry  telling  us,  they  did  not 
require  us  to  oblige  ourselves  no  further  than  the  scripture 
did  require  of  us,  whereupon  divers  members  of  both  con- 
gregations took  it ;  but  some  others,  though  they  held  an 
oath  for  the  end  of  controversy  to  be  lawful,  yet  were  not 
then  satisfied  to  take  a  promissory  oath ;  and  so  in  peace  we 
bare  one  with  another,  them  that  did,  and  them  that  did  not. 
So  that  trouble  passed  over. 

Upon  the  fifteenth  of  the  eleventh  month  (January,  1660), 
the  mayor,  Sir  Henry  Creswick,  sent  his  eldest  serjeant 
with  the  king's  proclamation,4  to  our  pastor,  Mr.  Ewins,  and 
forbade  him  to  preach  in  his  own  house.  So  having  got  the 
chapel  called  the  Friars,  there  he  preached  as  aforesaid  ;  and 
a  great  number  of  people  came  constantly  to  hear  him. 
Wherefore  some  time  we  were  quiet,  but  not  without  many 
threats. 

Anno  1661. 

And  upon  the  25th  of  June,  anno  1661,  Mr.  Ewins  was 
called  before  the  mayor  for  preaching  at  the  Friars,  and 
charged  not  to  preach.  But,  as  formerly,  he  continued 
in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  until  the  27  th  of  the  fifth 
month  [July]  following,  [when]  he  was  taken  up  at 
the  Friars  by  one  Adams,  a  serjeant  of  the  train-bands  to 
Captain  Rich ;  and  so,  with  a  guard  of  musketeers,  was 
carried  away  to  the  marshall's,  which  then  was  at  Joyners,  in 

4  [The  proclamation  was  published  on       Vernier's  arrest. — See  Tracts  on  Liberty 
the   10th  of  January,  immediately  on       of  Conscience,  p.  313.] 


72  THE    RECORDS 

Christmas  Street,  where  Mr.  Ewins  remained  until  the  12th 
of  August  following.  Then  he  was  committed  to  his  own 
house  as  prisoner ;  but  on  the  twenty-fifth  of  the  seventh 
month  following,  September,  he  was  discharged  in  open 
sessions,  and  then  preached  as  formerly  at  the  Friars  again. 
And  during  his  imprisonment  and  confinement,  the  meeting 
was  still  carried  on  by  the  brethren  of  the  congregation.5 

And  [now]  the  work  of  the  Lord  goes  on ;  the  gospel  in 
its  purity,  without  the  impositions  and  inventions  of  men,  is 
preached;  the  gospel  freely  held  forth  to  sinners;  some 
members  are  added,  some  the  Lord  took  to  himself, 

Whereupon  the  church  took  it  into  consideration,  to  choose 
some  new  officers,  and  to  ordain  the  pastor,  Mr.  Ewins,  by 
laying  on  of  hands,  and  the  elders  and  deacons. 

Anno  1662. 

After  several  days  for  consideration,  and  election  of 
persons  fit  for  each  place,  the  church  met,  by  appoint- 
ment, upon  the  24th  day  of  the  fourth  month,  or  June, 
anno  1662,  for  setting  apart  the  persons  chosen,  by  fast- 
ing and  prayer.  Upon  which  day  brother  Thomas  Ellis 
was  set  apart  for  the  work  of  a  ruling  elder  in  the  congrega- 
tion, as  added  to  brother  Robert  Purnell  in  the  same  work ; 
and  aged  brother  Spurgion  was  set  apart  to  the  office  of  a 
deacon,  as  added  to  brother  Simpson ;  and  sister  West,  a 
widow  woman,  was  set  apart  to  the  office  or  work  of  a 
widow  or  deaconess  in  the  church.  And  Mr.  Ewins,  [who] 
only  before  stood  as  a  teacher  in  the  church,  was  this  day,  by 
fasting  and  prayer,  now  solemnly  set  apart  as  pastor  to  the 
congregation.  But  the  ordinance  of  laying  on  of  hands  was 
not  imposed  or  practised,  though  intended,  through  the  back- 

[5  Mr.  Terrill  took  part  in  teaching  at  this  time] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  73 

wardness  of  one  of  the  ministers  then  present,  namely,  Mr. 
Blinman,6  that  somewhat  scrupled  his  call  to  it  in  point  of 
order,  not  being  a  member  with  us  (though  it  might  have 
been  done  by  the  request  of  the  church  for  his  assistance), 
which  afterward  he  repented  that  he  obstructed  that  it  was 
omitted;  and  so  they  were  all  abovesaid  set  apart  only  by 
fasting  and  prayer.  So  they  were  thus  set  apart  at  brother 
Robert  Purnell's  house,  on  James'  Back,  in  this  city  of  Bristol. 
They  being  thus  commended  to  the  Lord,  and  to  the  work, 
and  the  church  again  settled  in  order,  as  an  army  with 
banners,  in  the  work  of  Christ  they  proceed ;  and  the  gospel 
is  by  them  still  held  forth  at  the  same  place,  called  the 
Friars,  publicly  every  Lord's  day ;  and  every  fifth  day  of  the 
week,  the  church  kept  on  their  ancient  meeting  of  conference, 
which  was  not  carried  on  by  one,  but  divers  members  of 
the  congregation  spake  to  a  question  from  some  place  of 
scripture. 

But  Satan,  envying  the  state  of  the  church  and  [the] 
progress  of  the  gospel,  stirs  up  his  instruments,  that  not  long 
after,  Mr.  Ewins  was  taken  up  again,  on  the  26th  of  October, 
or  the  eighth  month,  anno  1662,  by  Captain  John  Floyd, 
coming  to  the  Friars  on  a  Lord's  day,  with  Lieut.  Smart  and 
others,  and  so  again  with  a  guard  of  musketeers,  was  led 
away  to  the  Guildhall,7  and  from  thence  sent  away  to  the 
marshall's,  which  was  then  in  Wine  Street,  where  he  con- 
tinued a  prisoner  for  the  Lord,  until  the  13th  of  the  ninth 
month,  or  November,  following,  and  then  was  sent  home  by 
Mr.  Cale,  a  major. 

6  [Mr.  Richard  Blinman   had   been  baptism,  "  tending  to  the  issue  "  of  the 

minister    of    Chepstow,    but    whether  controversy. — Palmer's  Noncon.  Mem. 

ejected  thence  or  not  is  uncertain.     He  ii.  352.] 
was  also  the  author  of  a  work  on  infant  7  [In  the  MS.  Ill  hall.] 


74  THE    RECORDS 


Anno  1663. 

Then  the  church  had  again  rest ;  and  the  gospel  preached 
again  by  Mr.  Ewins  as  soon  as  forth  of  prison ;  and  he 
continued  in  the  work,  in  the  said  public  place,  the  Friars, 
until  Sir  John  Knight  (which  like  a  tyrant  began  upon 
us  as  soon  as  he)  came  to  be  mayor;  for  the  same  week 
that  he  entered  his  mayoralty,  upon  the  3rd  of  October, 
1663,  he  sent  for  Mr.  Ewins  to  his  house,  and  charged  him 
not  to  preach.  But  Mr.  Ewins  told  him,  he  must  discharge 
his  duty  toward  the  Lord,  and  therefore  in  that  thing  he  durst 
not  obey  him,  but  the  Lord ;  and  accordingly,  the  next  day, 
preached  as  formerly  at  the  Friars.  And  Sir  John  Knight, 
the  mayor,  sent  his  Serjeants,  Jones  the  sawyer,  with  others, 
upon  the  4th  day  of  October,  anno  1663,  and  put  him  in 
prison  by  Newgate,  and  one  Mr.  Patient,6  a  minister  then 
in  this  city,  belonging  to  the  other  baptized  congregation. 

In  the  afternoon,  the  mayor  sent  a  warrant  for  brother 

•  [Mr.  Thomas   Patient  was   first  a  ally  preached  in  the  cathedral.   In  1 657 

paedobaptist  minister  in  New  England.  he  united  in   an  address  to  Cromwell 

Convinced   by   reading   the   scriptures,  from  the  baptized  Christians  of  that  city, 

and  by  an  anxious  examination  of  many  The   Restoration   probably    led  to   his 

authors,  that  infant  baptism  is  without  return  to  this  country,  where  he  appears 

foundation,  he  had  to  suffer  much  from  for  a  time  to  have  been  the  assistant  of 

his  brethren,  and  was  obliged  to  retire  Mr.  Hynam.    But  on  the  28th  of  June, 

to    England.      He    became    co-pastor  1666,   he  was   again  set  apart   to  the 

with  Mr.  Kiffin  about  1640.     He  went  office  of  elder  in  the  church  at  Devon- 

to  Ireland  with  General  Fleetwood,  in  shire  Square,  to  act  in  conjunction  with 

1649,  where  he  successfully  prosecuted  Mr.  Kiffin.     He  died  on  the  following 

his  great  work  as  a  preacher  of  the  gos-  30th  of  July,  "  leaving  a  blessed  savour 

pel,  and  many  were  baptized  by  him.  behind  him  of  his  great  usefulness  and 

In  the  following  year  he  addressed  a  sober    conversation." — Crosby,   iii.   42. 

letter  to  the  Lord  Lieutenant,  which  is  Doctrine   of    Baptism,    Epistle   to   the 

preserved  in  Milton's  State  Papers.    In  Reader.     4to.  Lond.  1654.    Devonshire 

1654,  he  calls  himself  a  "  Labourer  in  Square  Church  Records,  MS.  B.     Mil- 

the  Church  of  Christ  at  Dublin,"  on  the  ton's  State  Papers,  by  Nicholls,  pp.  6, 

title   page  of    his   "Doctrine  of   Bap-  149.] 
tism,"  published  in  that  year.     lie  usu- 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  75 

Edward  Terrill,  who  was  then  preaching  to  the  people,  to 
bring  him  and  brother  Simpson  before  the  mayor;  but 
having  notice  of  their  coming  with  the  officers,  when  they 
were  near,  the  elders  desired  [the]  said  brother  Terrill  to 
forbear  speaking,  and  sit  down.  So  he  did.  And  when 
the  officers  came  in,  he  went  through  the  people,  that  the 
officers  found  him  not.  But  the  next  day  he  was  fetched 
from  his  house,  and  brought  before  the  mayor,  with  Mr. 
Ewins,  Mr.  Patient,  and  brother  Simpson ;  and  because  they 
would  not  give  bond  to  the  good  behaviour,  they  were  all 
imprisoned  at  the  then  jailer's  house,  over  against  Newgate, 
and  there  they  lay  until  the  sessions,  about  a  quarter  of  a  year 
after.  Only  brother  Terrill,  they  released  him,  after  they 
had  kept  him  in  prison  a  fortnight,  taking  sureties  for  his 
appearance  at  said  next  sessions.  And  they  were  all  in- 
dicted of  a  riot,  and  then  tried,  and  as  the  mayor,  Sir  John, 
ordered  it,  were  found  guilty  of  a  riot  at  common  law,  and  so 
fined ;  Mr.  Ewins  fined  50/.,  and  brother  Simpson  fined  50/., 
but  brother  Terrill  they  fined  but  57. ;  which  they  would  not 
pay,  and  so  were  sentenced  to  lie  in  prison  until  they  paid  it. 
But  after  brother  Terrill  had  lain  there  awhile,  many 
people  of  quality  in  the  city  cried  out  against  Sir  John  for  his 
keeping  him  in  prison ;  but  the  mayor  told  them,  the  reason 
why  they  put  so  little  a  fine  upon  brother  Terrill  was,  because 
he  should  not  go  to  prison.  But  he  would  not  pay  it,  but 
lay  in  prison  about  a  quarter  of  a  year;  then  some  friend  paid 
it,  and  they  released  him,  but  kept  Mr.  Ewins  in  prison  all 
the  time  that  Sir  John  was  mayor ;  and  then  about  three 
days  before  their  time  was  out,  they  seemed  a  little  pliable, 
that  if  somebody  would  lay  down  the  507.  for  Mr.  Ewins, 
they  would  be  moderate.  So  Captain  Deane  and  brother 
Ellis  laid  it  down,  and  the  sheriffs,  Bradway  and  Streamer, 
took  forty  shillings  of  it,  and  returned  the  rest. 


76  the  records 

Anno  1664. 

So  that  upon  the  26th  day  of  September,  1664,  Mr.  Ewins 
and  brother  Simpson  were  released  out  of  prison.  Which 
long  and  tedious  imprisonment  so  decayed  our  pastor,  and  his 
straining  his  voice  in  prison  to  preach,  which  he  would  every 
Lord's  day,  that  the  people  that  gathered  together  under  the 
prison  walls  might  hear,  he  being  about  four  pair  of  stairs 
high  from  them,  that  when  he  came  out  of  prison,  after  the 
first  sermon  he  preached  abroad,  he  fainted  away,  and  declined 
continually,  [so]  that  it  hastened  his  days. 

Thus  the  Lord  bare  up  the  church,  that  they  still  met,  and 
contented  themselves  with  mean  gifts;  but  by  the  act  of 
banishment,  that  came  forth  in  May,  1664,  we  were  so  followed 
and  hunted  with  officers  and  Serjeants,  that  we  could  not 
keep  our  public  place,  the  Friars,  but,  by  reason  thereof, 
were  forced  to  leave  it,  and  meet  more  privately.  Then  we 
met  frequently  at  brother  Ellis's  house,  every  Lord's  day. 
But  meeting  one  Lord's  day  at  one  Mr.  Yeats's  house,  a 
baker,  in  Maryport  Street,  the  house  was  beset  with  the 
mayor,  Mr.  Lawford,  and  Sir  John,  with  other  aldermen  and 
officers,  being  informed  of  our  meeting  there  by  one  Tyler, 
a  mealman,  in  that  street.  They  demanded  entrance,  but 
the  door  being  kept  fast,  they  caused  iron  bars  and  a  sledge 
to  be  brought,  and  so  forced  open  the  door ;  which  we  under- 
standing, Mr.  Ewins,  being  in  exercise,  concluded  short  in 
prayer,  and  so  ended.  And  by  the  people's  desire,  Mr.  Ewins 
and  some  other  men  were  desired  to  go  into  a  back  part  of 
the  house,  and  [were]  so  conveyed  into  another. 

Then  the  mayor,  and  Sir  John  Knight,  came  up  into  the 
room  where  we  met,  and  sent  some  to  prison;  and  brother 
Terrill,  with  a  minister,  going  forth  at  a  back  door,  was 
apprehended,  and  brought  before  Sir  John,  who  took  his  word 
to  appear  next  day.     And  when  before  them,  the  mayor  and 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  77 

Sir  John  would  have  sent  him  to  prison,  but  brother  Terrill 
put  them  to  prove  matter  of  fact.  And  their  witnesses  not 
being  full  enough  to  prove  him  in  the  meeting,  he  got  off, 
and  escaped  imprisonment,  in  order  to  banishment,  which  act 
was  then  in  force,  and  prosecuted.7  Sister  Fry  was  sent  to 
prison,  at  Newgate,  for  a  month,  being  her  first  conviction. 

Thus  we  were  hunted  by  the  Nimrods,  but  the  Lord  hid 
us  many  Lord's  days  at  brother  Ellis's,  in  Corn  Street,  that 
we  had  some  peace  though  the  meeting  was  numerous ;  yet 
we  were  assaulted  there,  many  a  time  by  men,  but  saved  by 
God.  One  time,  upon  a  week-day  meeting,  which  was  like- 
wise there  for  a  long  time,  a  guard  of  musketeers  was  sent 
for  to  take  us  into  custody,  and  then,  being  in  the  evening, 
we  were  conveyed  into  a  cellar  under  ground,  that  went  into 
Ballance  [Baldwin]  Street ;  and  so  we  escaped,  and  they 
[were]  disappointed,  through  the  Lord, 

Another  time,  at  brother  Ellis's,  upon  a  Lord's  day,  the 
mayor  and  aldermen,  with  officers,  beset  the  house,  and  at 
last  broke  open  the  back  door,  and  so  came  in ;  but,  in  the 
meantime,  our  brother  having  before  contrived,  by  a  great  cup- 
board, to  hide  a  garret  door,  he  sent  up  most  of  the  men  out 
of  the  meeting  into  the  said  garret,  and  so  we  were  concealed. 
But  the  mayor  and  Sir  John  sent  away  thirty-one  of  the 
members  and  auditors  to  prison,  to  Bridewell,  for  a  month, 
upon  their  first  conviction  for  banishment. 

Another  time,  at  brother  Ellis's,  we  were  upon  a  Lord's 
day  beset  with  a  guard  of  soldiers,  who  came  to  search  the 
house  for  a  meeting,  but  we  were  again  concealed.  And 
several  other  times  we  were  assaulted  there,  and  our  brother 

7  [The  Conventicle  act.  "  It  forbade  ation  .  .  .  The  close,  unwholesome  pri- 

the  nonconformists  to  frequent  any  con-  sons  were  soon  crammed  with  conscien- 

venticles,  or  places  of  worship  not  of  the  tious   victims,   with  men  and  women, 

establishment,  and  it  imposed  a  scale  of  with  old  and  young."      Pict.  Hist,  of 

punishments  ranging  from  three  months1  England,  hi.  694.] 
imprisonment  to  seven  years'  transport- 


78  THE    RECORDS 

Ellis  under  great  trouble  divers  times  for  entertaining  of  us ; 
and  at  last  they  imprisoned  him  at  Newgate  for  a  month, 
upon  his  first  conviction  for  banishment.  And  the  year 
before,  he  was  imprisoned,  with  divers  other  sober  good  men, 
and  eminent  in  the  city,  at  the  marshall's,  in  Wine  Street  ; 
but  the  Lord  helped  him,  that  he  bore  up  under  all,  and,  like 
a  Gaius  and  an  Obed-edom,  he  entertained  the  ark  in  his 
house  frequently. 

For  his  loving  friend,  Mr.  E.  Terrill,  dwelling  in  Corn  Street, 
schoolmaster,  these  present.8 
Bristol,  Newgate,  this  27th,  4th  month  (June),  1664. 

Loving  Brother, — My  love,  to  thee  worth  nothing,  worse  than 
nothing,  be  remembered  to  thee.  Those  loves  that  are  substance, 
in  which  is  moved  all,  the  Lord  feasts  thy  soul  with.  And  oh, 
that  my  mentioning  of  this  high  and  glorious  pearl,  was  not,  in  the 
account  of  God,  babbling,  swelling  words  ! — I,  speaking  of  it 
merely  by  report  from  others,  by  the  hearing  of  the  ear,  as  not  being 
able  to  say,  that  which  I  have  seen  I  speak  of.  Oh  !  I  stand  in 
need  to  be  taught  that  lesson,  Be  swift  to  hear,  and  slow  to  speak. 

Brother,  whilst  thou  art  teaching  others,  in  which  useful 
employment,  as  God  hath  put  thee  in  it,  so  himself  make  thee 
more  useful  than  ever ; — as  in  that,  as  in  other  things,  he  hath 
made  thee  a  blessing  to  divers — so  bless  and  praise  God  for  it, 
that  thou  dost  not  labour,  and  travail  in  the  fire  for  nothing, 
which  would  be  a  great  exercise  to  thee.  But,  brother,  whilst 
thou  teachest  others,  the  Lord,  our  great  Prophet  and  Teacher, 
teach  thee,  and  give  thee  to  listen  to  what  God  speaks  to  thee,  in 
those  dictates  and  motions  of  his  Spirit,  by  the  movings  of  him- 
self in  thee,  as  thou  wouldst  have  those  thou  speakest  to,  and 
instructest,  to  listen  to  thee,  which,  if  they  be  mindless  and 
careless  to  do,  no  proficients  are  they  likely  to  be. 

Grieve  not  the  Spirit.  It  is  divers  ways  grieved ;  and  this  is 
one  way,  by  a  quenching  the  motions  of  it  in  us.     It  is  good 

8  [This  from  Mr.  Simpson,  and  the  fol-       during  this  time  of  tribulation,  and  are 
lowing  letters,  were  written  from  prison       preserved  with  the  records  of  the  church.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  79 

making  hay  when  the  sun  shines.  Take  the  advantage  of  a  side 
wind,  when  you  have  not  a  full  right  gale  ;  and  in  a  calm,  when  you 
are  so  becalmed  as  that  you  cannot  move  forward,  wait  for  a  fair 
gale. — The  wind  bloweth  when  and  where  He,  that  hath  the  wind 
in  his  fist,  pleaseth.  Remember,  he  hath  pronounced  them 
blessed  that  wait  for  him ;  and,  remember,  he  hath  said,  that  in 
those  days,  the  days  of  the  gospel,  those  latter  days  that  we  live 
in  now,  Young  men  shall  see  visions,  and  upon  his  servants  and 
handmaidens  he  shall  pour  out  of  his  Spirit,  and  they  shall 
prophesy,  [Acts  ii.  17,  18.]  Make  use  of  the  promises  that  relate 
to  the  pouring  forth  of  the  Spirit  which  is  promised  to  the  heath 
ground,  the  wilderness,  the  dry  ground,  the  desert,  and  waste 
places,  Isaiah  xli.  17 — 20. 

I  bless  God,  who  hath  given  me,  not  only  by  the  hearing  of 
the  ear,  but  by  what  I  have  seen,  to  see  that  young  men  see 
visions,  whilst  some  old  men  scarce  dream  dreams.  The  Lord 
elevate  and  raise  up  thy  spirit  to  him,  that  by  a  raisedness  of 
spirit  to  him,  thou  mayest  by  that  have  thy  hands  lift  up  for 
him,  and  be  of  an  undaunted  spirit  for  him  !  Oh,  of  what  use  it 
would  be  now,  to  us  in  special,  to  have  Jesus  with  us,  by  which 
we  come  to  be  with  him,  and  to  witness  him  shining,  as  those 
that  come  out  of  the  mount ;  by  which  both  true  zeal  and  valour, 
and  strength,  is  attained,  both  to  speak  and  to  be  silent  when  we 
should  be.  There  is  a  time  to  speak,  that  at  that  time  we  may 
not  be  dumb.  The  Lord  teach  his  people  this,  in  this  day,  under 
which  we  be,  of  God's  dispensation — which  is  a  day  of  rebuke  bv 
the  Lord  of  hosts,  even  of  his  sons  and  daughters.  But  in  the 
way  of  his  judgments,  under  which  we  be,  the  Lord  help  us  to 
wait  on  him.  God  is  a  carrying  on  his  work.  Behold  our  God 
and  King  cometh,  as  a  mighty  conqueror.  Let  the  daughters 
rejoice  in  their  King,  who  is  King  of  Salem,  King  of  peace. 

The  cause  of  this  my  present  writing  to  you  is  to  intreat  you  to 
put  the  several  Greek  words  into  the  several  places,  into  this  I 
have  written  out  of  my  copy.  I  look  for  to  have  occasion  to 
send  them  [the  original  sheets]  away  to-morrow.  I  keep  them  by 
me  to  write  another  [copy]   by,  for  myself  and  daughter,  and  I 


80  THE    RECORDS 

send  to  thee  two  of  my  writing,  because  in  one  of  them  the  Greek 
[words]  are  unwritten  by  thee.  In  that  in  which  the  Greek  words 
are  written,  they  are  written  [in]  the  third  page,  and  twelfth  line : 
and  tenth  page,  the  latter  end  of  the  page.  In  that  in  which  the 
Greek  words  are  not  written,  [it]  is  [at]  the  third  page,  and 
seventeenth  line:  and  the  ninth  page,  and  ninth  line.  I  pray 
you  send  me  them  both  again. 

The  good  will  of  Him  in  the  bush  be  with  thee.  Remember 
me  to  thy  mother.  Thy  sapless,  juiceless  friend  ;  so,  in  a  great 
measure,  but  in  the  root,  blessed  be  God, 

Robert  Simpson. 


[Letter  of  Mr.  Ewins,  No.  1,  not  dated.] 

For  the  small  remnant  that  meet  this  afternoon. 

Dear  Brethren  and  Sisters, — I  am  in  a  strait,  not  knowing 
what  to  write  unto  you.  Indeed,  the  condition  of  the  church  is  a 
greater  trouble  to  me  than  all  my  imprisonment.  I  have  thought, 
and  do  still  think,  that  it  would  have  been  much  better  for  you 
to  have  continued  the  public  meetings  in  the  usual  place,  till  you 
had  been,  some  of  you,  taken  up  ;  but  I  know  not  what  to  say, 
since  you,  whose  place  it  is  to  take  the  care  of  the  church,  do 
withdraw.9  The  Lord  grant  it  may  not  be  laid  to  their  charge. 
I  cannot  tell  how  to  put  others  upon  it,  though  I  should  be 
exceeding  glad  that  some  meeting  were  kept  up,  if  not  in  that 
place,  yet  in  some  place  where  a  testimony  might  be  borne  for 
the  Lord,  and  the  work  of  his  patience,  in  this  day.  I  acknow- 
ledge you  have  borne  a  very  good  testimony  hitherto,  but  I 
conceive  your  testimony  is  not  to  the  full,  or  it  is  not  finished, 
Rev.  ii.  7. 

But  when  may  we  say,  Our  testimony  is  finished  ?  I  answer, 
when  you  have  witnessed  against  this  late  unrighteous  act,10  or  law 
of  man,  which  is  so  directly  and  so  highly  against  the  prerogative 
<>f  Jesus  Christ ;    or,  when  you  have  suffered  the  first  penalty, 

9  See  back,  p.  7(i.  l0  [The  Conventicle  act.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  81 

either  by  fine  or  imprisonment,  then,  I  conceive,  you  have  borne 
your  testimony,  and  then  you  might  come  to  family  meetings,  as 
Paul  did  at  Corinth,  Acts  xviii.  4 ;  xix.  8,  9.  Why  should  any 
fear,  or  draw  back,  upon  the  account  of  the  first  penalty  of  this 
act?  It  is  not  worth  the  mentioning.  You  may  redeem  your- 
selves out  for  a  shilling  ;  if  not,  they  will  turn  you  out  in  a  week 
or  two. 

But  some  will  say,  They  will  do  that  but  in  policy,  that  they 
may  take  us  again,  and  hasten  our  banishment.  I  answer,  let 
their  ends  be  what  they  will,  if  you  be  out,  you  may  then  confine 
yourselves  to  private  family  meetings,  and  so  escape  banishment ; 
having;  borne  vour  testimonv  so  fullv,  von  mav  comfortablv  rest, 
and  leave  the  work  to  those  that  have  not  yet  been  taken.  Let  no 
one  entertain  hard  thoughts,  or  heart-burnings,  against  the  elders, 
because  they  do  not  stick  to  you,  as  I  once  thought  they  would 
have  done ; — we  must  allow  all  men  something.  No  man  can  be 
forced  beyond  his  freedom.1  Let  every  man  look  to  his  own 
heart.  That  which  appears  to  me  to  be  the  word  of  God's 
patience,  in  this  generation,  is  the  purity  of  his  worship,  and  the 
kingly  office  and  authority  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  opposition  to  the 
inventions  and  usurpations  of  men  therein. 

Excuse  my  scribbling.  I  have  not  time  to  write  it  out  fair. 
If  you  conclude  on  any  thing,  let  me  know  it ;  or  if  one  or  two 
choose  to  come,  they  may. 

The  Lord  be  with  you. 

1  [Of  the  sufferings  under  this  act,  were  much  altered  ....  they  did  now 
Baxter  writes  thus : — "  And  now  came  think  it  was  better  to  preach  often  in 
in  the  people's  trial,  as  well  as  the  mi-  secret  to  a  few,  than  but  once  or  twice 
nisters' ;  while  the  danger  and  suffering  in  public  to  many  :  and  that  secrecy 
lay  on  the  ministers  alone,  the  people  was  no  sin,  when  it  tended  to  the  fur- 
were  very  courageous,  and  exhorted  therance  of  the  work  of  the  gospel,  and 
them  to  stand  it  out,  and  preach  till  to  the  church's  good.  But  yet  their 
they  went  to  prison.  But  when  it  came  meetings  were  so  ordinary,  and  so  well 
to  be  their  own  case,  they  were  as  ven-  known,  that  it  greatly  tended  to  the 
turous,  till  they  were  once  surprised  and  gaolers1  commodity.'11  Baxter's  Narra- 
imprisoned,  but   then  their  judgments  tive,  part  ii.  p.  436.] 


G 


82  THE    RECORDS 

[Letter  of  Mr.  Ewins,  No.  2,  not  dated.] 

Brother  Terrill,  — I  have,  at  present,   a  little  liberty  to 

come   to    my  own  house;    but  I   find  the  keeper   so  timorous, 

that  I  dare  not  venture  to  come  to  see  you  in  the  meeting,  lest  it 

should  be  known.     Wherefore  I  write  these  few  lines  unto  you, 

first,  to  salute  the  congregation,  and  to  entreat  them  to  excuse  my 

not  coming  in  to  them,  they  being   so  near.     But   I  hope  the 

Lord  will  be  with  you,  and  that  is  enough.     There  is  one  thing  I 

would  have  proposed  this  evening  in  the  meeting,  that  so  brother 

Ellis  may  be  advised   with  about  it  ;    namely,  that   some  day 

might  be  thought  of  to  be  set  apart  to  seek  the  Lord  for  our  own 

souls,  for  the  church  of  God,  and  for  the  nation.     We  have  not 

been  in  that  work  of  late,  though  it  be  the  work  of  the  present 

day.     Now  the  fair  being  over,2  I  suppose  our  friends  may  spare 

time.     For  the  day  and  place  I  leave  to  you  and  the  rest  to  pitch 

upon.     It  may  be  concluded  between  this  and  the  first  day,  that 

so  notice  may  be  given  thereof  in  each  meeting.     The  Lord  Jesus 

be  with  your  spirit. 

T.  Ewins. 


[Letter  of  Mr.  Ewins,  No.  3.] 

July  23rd,  1664. 

Brother  Terrill,— Not  knowing  that  I  may  see  you,  this  is 
to  acquaint  you  with  my  thoughts  against  the  first  day.  I  do 
not  think  ....  3  a  fit  place  for  some  reasons,  but  incline  rather 
to  the  old  place  ;  only  [I]  desire  you  to  advise  with  brother  Ellis, 
whether  there  be  any  other  place  to  be  had.  I  leave  it  to  you, 
desiring  the  Lord  to  direct  you.     And   I   pray,  God  strengthen 

2  [Probably  the   March  fair,  which  8  [The  place  is  left  blank.] 

lasted  about  eight  days.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  83 

and  direct  your  spirit  to  go  on  and  finish  your  testimony,  sub- 
mitting to  the  pleasure  of  God,  whether  in  liberty  or  bonds. 

Let  not  anything  discourage  you,  either  from  friends  or  others. 
If  we  follow  Christ  fully,  we  must  expect  to  meet  with  wounds  in 
the  house  of  our  friends.  It  is,  indeed,  an  affliction  so  to  do,  but 
it  will  be  a  Christian's  crown  to  break  through  all,  and  to  be 
above  it.      •" 

Brother,  a  necessity  is  upon  you,  to  take  a  little  more  than 
ordinary  care  of  the  church  at  this  time.  You  have  a  providential 
call  to  break  the  bread  of  life  to  the  poor  and  hungry.  Remem- 
ber Prov.  xi.  24,  26,  There  is  that  scattereth,  and  yet  increaseth; 
and  there  is  that  withholdeth  more  than  is  meet,  but  it  tendeth  to 
poverty.  The  liberal  soul  shall  be  made  fat,  and  he  that  watereth 
shall  be  watered  also  himself.  He  that  withholdeth  corn,  the  people 
also  shall  curse  him :  but  blessing  shall  be  on  the  head  of  him  that 
selleth  it. 

It  is  a  blessed  commendation  that  the  Spirit  of  God  gives  of 
Timothy,  that  he  did  naturally  care  for  the  state  of  the  church  at 
Philippi.  Oh,  consider  that  if  your  liberty  be  offered  up  upon 
the  sacrifice  and  service  of  the  faith  of  this  poor  flock  of  Christ, 
you  will  have  cause  of  joy  rather  than  sorrow. 

If  any  say,  What  call  have  you  ?  I  answer,  you  have  the  call  of 
charity  and  necessity.  Suppose  in  a  great  family  there  be  many 
small  weak  children,  not  able  to  cut  their  bread,  and  the  elder 
brethren,  or  servants,  be  gone  from  home,  is  there  not  a  necessity 
that  any  one  should  cut,  or  break,  or  deal  out,  bread  to  the  poor 
children  ?  and  would  it  not  be  a  breach  of  the  law  of  nature  and 
charity,  to  suffer  these  children  to  famish,  because  they  that 
should  feed  them  are  not  present  ?  It  was  the  childish  Pharisees 
that  quarrelled  with  the  disciples,  Matt.  xii.  2.  But  mark  the 
answer  of  Christ ;  he  alleges  necessity.  By  which  it  appears  that 
necessity  is  the  highest  law,  or,  as  we  say,  Necessitas  non  habet 
leges.  Wherefore,  laying  aside  all  objections  and  exceptions,  go 
on  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord,  to  feed  his  flock,  till  the  elder 
brethren,  or  servants,  come  home.  Read  in  Eccles.  [x.  1,  2] 
Cast  thy  bread  upon  the  waters,  for  thou  shalt  find  it  after  many 

a  2 


84  THE    RECORDS 

days.      Give  a  portion  to  seven,  and  also  to  eight,  for  thou  knotvest  not 
what  evil  shall  be  upon  the  earth,  &c. 

The  Lord  be  with  your  spirit.     The  good  Samaritan  had  only 
necessity  and  charity  for  his  call.  .. 

T.  Ewins. 


In  this  year,  1664,  there  were  three  blazing  stars  seen  in 
England,  in  four  months'  space.  The  first  star  appeared  in 
the  beginning  of  December,  1664,  and  continued  about 
fourteen  days,  and  then  disappeared.  The  second  appeared 
in  the  latter  end  of  December,  1664,  and  continued  till  about 
the  latter  end  of  the  eleventh  month  (January)  following. 
The  third  blazing  star  appeared  in  the  latter  end  of  the  first 
month  (March),  1665,  at  four  of  the  clock  in  the  morning, 
and  continued  till  the  mornings  swallowed  it  up  with  day.4  £ 
This  was  noted  and  recorded  by  Mr.  Ewins.  Also  by  Mr. 
Ewins  figuring  down  which  way  the  tail  of  each  star  lay. 
The  first  star's  tail  lay  west  north-west,  by  my  apprehension ; 
which  might  point  out  England,  which  lieth  so  off  the 
continent ;  and  God's  judgments  were  sore  upon  it  presently, 
by  the  great  plague  that  followed  in  the  anno  1665,  and  by 
destroying  the  metropolitan  city  by  fire,  anno  1666,5  and  by 


4  ["During    the     preceding    winter  ■  ["Oh,  how  is  London,  the   place 

the  appearance  of  a  large  comet  became  which    God    hath    honoured    with    his 

the  occasion  of  much  superstitious  talk  gospel  above  all  places  of  the  earth,  laid 

among  the  people.     As  the  spring  ad-  low  in  horrors,  and  wasted  almost  to 

vanced,  the  notion  of  impending  cala-  desolation,  by  the  wrath  of  God,  whom 

mity  was  strengthened  by  the  appear-  England     hath     contemned  ; — strange 

ance  of  a  second  blazing  star,  and  by  comets,  which  filled  the  thoughts  and 

the  fact  that  cases  of  death  by  the  plague  writings   of    astronomers,   did,    in   the 

were  increasing  ;  nor  were  there  wanting  winter  and  spring,  along  time  appeal 

those  who  saw  the  anger  of  the  Deity  before  these  calamities.     Yet,  under  all 

figured  forth  in  sword  and  flame  in  dif-  these  desolations,  the  wicked  are  hard- 

ferent  quarters  of  the  heavens  almost  ened."     Baxter's  Narrative,  part  ii.  p. 

every  night."     Vaughan'a  Hist,  of  Eng-  448.] 
land,  ii.  G28.1 


Sazlr 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  85 

war  with  the  Dutch,  wherein  we,  this  nation,  sustained 
great  loss.6 

I  gather,  by  said  Mr.  Ewin's  figure  of  the  said  stars, 
that  the  second  star's  tail  lay  east  and  by  north-east,  which 
might  point  out  Holland  and  Germany.  And  did  not  there 
follow  sore  desolations  upon  Holland,  and  the  lower  part  of 
the  emperor's  country? 

The  third  star's  tail,  I  perceive  (by  as  aforesaid),  lay  south 
south-east ;  and  doth  not  that  point  out  France  and  Spain  ? 
but  France  especially,  that  it  may  be  the  Lord  showed  us 
should  taste  of  the  third  cup,  after  England  and  Holland; 
and  by  the  manner  of  the  third  star's  appearing  and  abiding, 
who  knows  but  it  shows  that  their  (viz.  France's)  trouble 
shall  continue,  until  the  daylight  of  the  protestant  interest 
^appear,  and  break  forth,  to  the  daylight  of  God's  fulfill- 
ing his  glorious  promises  in  the  holy  scriptures,  to  a  visible 
|  manifestation  of  God's  hastening  the  pulling  down  of  the 
papal  power,  and  the  pope  ?     Amen ;   so  come,  Lord  Jesus. 

But  to  a  brief  narration  and  history  of  God's  leading  this 
church  of  Christ.  So  that,  by  reason  of  this  act  for  banish- 
ment, we  were  fain  to  move  from  house  to  house ;  and  one 
Lord's  day,  of  the  11th  month  (January),  anno  1664  [1665], 
a  meeting  being  at  brother  Terrill's,  then  living  in  Corn 
Street,  the  mayor's  sergeants  came  up  and  dissolved  the 
meeting,  carried  away  one  Mr.  Zephaniah  Smith,7  and  three 
or  four  Londoners,  before  the  mayor.  That  minister, 
Mr.  Smith,  was  sent  to  Newgate  prison,  and  he  being  a 
stranger  in  a  manner  here,  then,  the  next  week,  they  released 
him,  upon  his  telling  them  he  was  to  be  gone  out  of  town, 
and  they  charging  him  to  depart  in  few  days. 

6  [See  Rapin's  Hist,  of  England,  ii.  Times,"  in  a  sermon  at  Wickham  Mar- 
638 — 642.]  ket,  Suffolk,  where  he  was  then  minister, 

7  [Mr.  Z.Smith  was  an  ejected  mi-  Palmer's  Noncon.  Mem.  ii.  444.  For  an 
nister.  He  published  "A  Guide  to  original  letter  found  among  the  Broad- 
Weak    Christians   in   these   Distracted  mead  papers,  see  Addenda,  note  D.J 


86  THE    RECORDS 

Upon  the  7th  of  the  twelfth  month,  anno  1664,  [January, 
1 665,]  at  the  close  of  a  day  of  prayer,  upon  the  consideration 
of  several  persons  in  the  congregation  not  walking  orderly, 
some  [being]  remiss  in  their  duty  of  assembling  with  the 
church,  by  reason  of  these  troubles,  the  church  appointed  a 
monthly  meeting  of  the  brethren  only,  to  consider  of  persons 
or  things  amiss  in  the  congregation ;  and  so  appointed  the  first 
sixth  day  of  the  week,  or  Friday,  that  should  happen  in  any 
month ;  and  afterward  it  was  altered  to  the  first  second  day 
in  the  month. 

Anno  1665. 

In  the  fourth  month,  1665,  the  church  ordered  that  brother 
Terrill  should  engross  all  the  members'  names  in  parchment, 
and  that  they  be  called  over  always  at  breaking  [of]  bread,  f 
to  see  who  doth  omit  their  duty. 

Upon  the  fourth  of  the  sixth  month,  1665,  it  was  resolved  ^ 
and  ordered,  that  once  a  month,  for  the  future,  there  should 
be  constantly  a  select  meeting  of  the  members  odIv,  to  stay 
after  others  were  departed  from  the  public  exercise,  which 
might  be  that  Lord's  day  fortnight  after  we  break  bread. 
To  this  end,  that  there  might  be  an  opportunity  for  the 
pastor,  and  for  any  other  brother,  to  minister  a  word  proper 
to  church  members,  for  information  or  exhortation  to  their 
duty,  or  reproof,  &c.,  that  we  might  more  often  see  the  whole 
church  together. 

The  third  of  the  ninth  month,  1665,  it  was  determined, 
after  dealing,  and  several  months'  waiting,  that  these  six 
members,  namely,  John  Evans,  John  Hicks  and  John 
Harris  that  went  to  New  England,  with  sister  More,  sister 
Stoaks,  and  Martha  Moggs,  be  declared  no  members,  and  to 
be  looked  upon  as  persons  not  to  have  full  communion  with 
us ;  some  for  neglecting  their  duty  of  assembling  through 
fear,  some  for  evils  in  their  conversation,  three  of  them. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  87 

In  the  ninth  month,  1665,  there  came  a  troop  of  horse  to 
this  city,  as  reported  on  purpose  to  suppress  the  meetings, 
and  they  were  very  abusive  to  those  meetings  they  found. 

In  the  eleventh  month,  1665,  by  reason  of  the  decease  of 
one  of  the  deacons,  namely,  brother  Spurgcon,  the  church 
chose  brother  William  Dickason  to  be  a  deacon,  assistant 
with  brother  Simpson  and  brother  Thos.  Rieves. 

In  the  year  1665  we  had  many  disturbances,  and  divers 
imprisoned,  but  the  Lord  helped  us  through  it. 

Anno   1666. 

In  the  beginning  of  this  year,  1666,  this  city  of  Bristol 
was  visited  with  that  judgment  of  the  Lord,  the  plague,8 
which  struck  terror  in  the  magistrates,  and  through  the 
moderation  of  alderman  John  Willougby,  then  mayor,  who 
began  a  stop  to  persecution,  by  which  means  the  Lord 
ordained  us  much  peace,  that  many  this  year  were  added  to 
the  church.  And  there  appeared,  seemingly,  a  spirit  of  life 
entering  into  the  people  not  of  the  church,  more  unanimously 
resolved  for  meetings  separate  from  the  worship  of  the  world, 
than  in  some  few  years  past  had  been.  And  the  Lord  dealt 
very  merciful  and  gracious  with  the  city,  that  the  plague 
abated  and  stopped ;  being  not  so  great  as  feared  and  threat- 
ened.    Laus  Deo. 

Sister  Yanatturne,  in  the  fourth  month,  anno  1666,  was 
proposed,  spoken  with,  and  joined  to  the  church. 

Brother  John  Fry,  in  the  sixth  month,  1666,  was  pro- 
posed, spoken  with,  and  joined  to  the  congregation. 

On  the  third  day  of  the  seventh  month,  1666,  began  that 

8  [It  began  at  Bedminster,  where  it  and  Redcliffe  Street  were  infected,  with 

raged  much,  and  so  likewise  at  Barton  some  other  places.     It  pleased  God,  in 

Regis.   It  entered  the  city  by  Lawford's  his  wonderful  mercy,  then  to  restrain  it.] 
Gate.     Some  houses  in  Halliers'  Lane 


88  THE    RECORDS 

dreadful  fire  of  London,  the  metropolis  of  England,  and 
consumed  the  greatest  part  of  that  city,  by  the  wicked  hands 
of  that  blood  thirsty  people  called  papists,  as  afterwards  it 
was  discovered.9  By  which  means,  for  want  of  public  places 
called  churches,  they  being  burnt  down,  the  people  met  in 
great  abundance  to  hear  our  friends,  called  nonconformists ; 
and  so  their  meetings  became  very  public,  and  have  remained 
so  ever  since,  in  London,  about  these  ten  years.  And 
because  the  separatists  in  London  had  liberty,  many  parts  of 
this  nation  were  influenced  thereby,  that  we  had  also  liberty 
for  about  four  years  after,  in  some  good  measure,  through 
the  Lord's  goodness  in  fulfilling  the  scriptures  and  promises 
to  us.1 

Brother  Daniel  Gwilliam,  upon  the  eighth  month,  1666, 
and  brother  Jeremiah  Courtny,  were  both  proposed,  spoken 
with,  and  joined  to  this  congregation ;  and  the  right  hand  of 
fellowship  given  unto  them  to  be  members  thereof,  as  to 
others. 

Brother  John  Morgan,  James  Bland,  in  the  ninth  month, 
1666,  with  sister  Davis,  now  Saunders,  and  sister  Hughes, 
were  all  four  proposed,  spoken  with,  and  joined  to  this  con- 
gregation as  members  thereof. 

Sister  Turtle,  sister  Bridget  Hill,  sister  Judith  Watkins, 
now  Morgan,   in   the   tenth   month,  anno   1666,   were  pro- 

9  [It  broke  out  in  the  middle  of  the  sive   dryness  of  the   timber-built  city, 

night  between  the  2nd  and  3rd  of  Sep-  The  summer  had  been  one  of  extreme 

tember.     "  The  pious  and  religious  as-  heat.] 

cribed  it  to  the  just  vengeance  of  heaven  '   ["  The  churches  being  burnt,and  the 

on    a   city  where  vice  and  immorality  parish  ministers  gone,  the  nonconform- 

reigned  so  openly  and  shamefully  ;  some  ists   were   more  resolved  than  ever  to 

ascribed  it  to  the  malice  of  the  repub-  preach  till  they  were  imprisoned  ;  they 

Iicans;  others  to  the  papists." — Rapin,  did  keep   their   meetings  very  openly, 

ii.  G43.       Burnet's   Hist,   of   his   Own  and  prepared  large  rooms,  and  some  of 

Time,  i.  399,  8vo  edit.     Baxter's  Nar-  them  plain  chapels.     The  independents 

rative,  part  iii.  p.  10.     Historians  are  also  set  up  their  meetings  more  openly 

now  generally  agreed,  that  it  was  the  than  before." — Baxter's  Narrative,  part 

result  of  accident,  aided  by  the  execs-  iii.  p.  19.) 


OF   A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  89 

pounded,  spoken  with,  and  joined  members  to  this  congre- 
gation. 

Brother  Richard  Dennis,  in  the  twelfth  month,  1666,  was 
propounded,  and  with  brother  Thomas  Jones,  Robert  Jones, 
and  William  Evans,  they  were  spoken  with,  and  joined  to 
this  congregation  in  the  month  following ;  being  the  first 
month,  1666  [March,  1667]. 

On  the  24th  of  the  first  month,  1666,  Mr.  Angell  Hollard 
and  his  wife,  formerly  members  of  the  church  of  Weymouth, 
in  New  England,  were  proposed. 

Sister  Brown,  with  sister  Bird,  on  the  quay,  were,  on  the 
24th  of  the  said  first  month,  1666,  being  the  last  day  of  the 
year,  propounded;  and  sister  Ann  Owen,  sister  Simmonds, 
propounded  on  the  third  month,  26th  day,  anno  1667  ;  and 
brother  Peirce,  with  sister  Margaret  Sterry,  they  propounded 
on  the  second  of  the  fourth  month,  1667  :  all  which  six  were 
spoken  with,  and  joined  members  to  this  congregation,  in  the 
said  fourth  month,  anno  1667. 

Before  this  time,  our  brother  Purnell,  the  eldest  ruling- 
elder,  being  in  the  ninth  month  last  deceased,2  the  church 
had  several  times  under  consideration,  whom  to  choose  and 
make  a  ruling  elder  in  his  stead.  At  last,  upon  the  third  of 
the  twelfth  month,  being  the  Lord's  day,  anno  1666,  two  of 

2  [Mr.  Purnell  was  the  author  of  the  the  compiling  of  these  things  together, 

following  works:— 1.  Good  Tidings  for  I  have  borrowed,  a  little  time  from  my 

Sinners,  Great  Joy  for  Saints,  4to,  1G49.  particular   calling,  and  from   my  sleep 

2.  The  Way  to  Heaven  Discovered,  and  and  recreation."      And   to  effect   this, 

the    Stumbling-blocks    Removed,    &c.  moreover,    he   had   been   turned   aside 

12mo.  3.  A  Little  Cabinet,  richly  stored  from  his  purpose  "to  have  written  of 

with  all  sorts  of  Heavenly  Varieties  and  the  kingdom  and  coming  of  our  Lord 

Soul-reviving  Influences,  8vo,  1G57,  pp.  Jesus  Christ,"  in  order  to  defend  and 

4G7.     In  the  preface  he  says,  '-Reader,  guard  the  "  first  principles  of  religion," 

I  shall  here  in  this  book  present  thee  then  assaulted  by  the  quakers.     At  the 

with  all  that  I  have  learned,  or  at  least  time   of  his  death  Mr.  Purnell  must, 

with  the  sum  and  substance  of  all  that  therefore,  have  been  a  professed  Chris- 

I  have  gained  this  four  and  twenty  years,  tian  thirty-three  years,   and  not  much 

by  reading  the  scriptures,  Sec.     And  for  less  than  sixty  years  of  age.] 


90  THE    RECORDS 

the  brethren  were  proposed,  that  one  of  them  might  be 
chosen,  namely,  brother  Richard  White,  and  brother  Edward 
Terrill,  which  were  desired  to  depart  ;  and  accordingly 
they  went  to  their  homes.  Then  it  being  put  to  the  vote, 
all  the  brethren  were  for  brother  Terrill,  except  the  two 
principal,  viz.,  Mr.  Ewins,  pastor,  and  brother  Ellis,  the  only 
ruling  elder  left.  These  were  for  brother  White  to  be 
chosen ;  but  seeing  the  election  did  not  go  according  to  their 
minds,  they  took  hold  of  a  motion  that  was  made  by  a 
minister  there  present,  namely,  brother  William  Thomas, 
pastor  of  the  church  of  Llantrisaint,  in  Wales,3  that  he 
advised  the  church  should  choose  both,  and  to  that  all  the 
brethren  agreed. 

Upon  that,  the  next  Lord's  day  following,  in  another 
meeting  of  the  brethren,  they  settled  that  conclusion,  to 
present  two  elders  to  the  congregation,  to  be  joined  in  office 
with  brother  Ellis.  So  upon  the  24th  of  the  said  twelfth 
month,  1666  [March,  1667],  being  two  weeks  after,  brother 
White  and  brother  Terrill  were  proposed  to  the  whole  con- 
gregation, as  persons  so  chosen  to  the  office  of  ruling  elders, 
if  they  were  minded  to  concur  therein,  for  to  elect  and  call 


3  [See  before,  pp.  7,  37.    Llantrisaint  three  parts,  each  part  to  sustain  its  own 

sent  messengers,  for  the  first  time,  to  a  ministry.     From  an  old  manuscript  the 

general  meeting  at  Abergavenny  in  the  late  Rev.  Joshua  Thomas  procured  the 

year  1653,  at  which  place  the  church  following  notice  of  Mr.  William  Thomas, 

settled,    in     preference     to    Llanaran.  which  completes  all  that  we  can  learn  of 

Members  of  baptist  churches  had  long  this    excellent    and    amiable    man  : — 

resided  in  these  places,  and  appear  to  "  William  Thomas,  a  preacher  of  the 

have  been  brought  into  church  order  by  true  word  of  God,  departed  this  life  the 

Mr.  Thomas,  on  the  return  of  the  minis-  26th  July,  1671,  and  was  buried   the 

ters  from  London  in  1646.     He  was  a  28th   at    Llantrisaint."      Another    old 

messenger  at  the  above  meeting  of  the  manuscript  informs  us  that  Mr.  Walter 

Association,  and  was  appointed  to  sup-  Prosser  often  "  preached  to  Mr.  Wm. 

ply  Carmarthen   occasionally  with  the  Thomas's  people." — Hist,  of  Welsh  As- 

means  of  grace.     In  1654  the  Associa-  sociation,  pp.  8,  9,  12,   19.     Thomas's 

tion  was  held  at  Llantrisaint,  when  the  MS.  Hist.  p.  540.] 
church  was  recommended  to  divide  into 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  91 

them  to  the  said  work,  to  which  the  whole  church  agreed. 
And  then  they  appoint  the  sixth  day  of  the  first  month, 
1666,  following  [April,  1667],  to  be  the  day  to  set  them 
apart,  by  fasting  and  prayer,  to  the  work  of  the  Lord  as 
ruling  elders. 

Anno  1667. 

Upon  the  sixth  of  the  first  month,  anno  1666  [1667], 
according  to  the  former  conclusion,  were  these  two  brethren, 
Richard  White  and  Edward  Terrill,  set  apart  by  prayer 
and  fasting  to  be  ruling  elders  in  this  church,  at  least 
for  trial.  There  were  present  two  ministers  besides  our 
pastor.  First,  the  pastor  declaring  to  the  congregation  the 
work  of  the  day,  it  was  by  him  desired  that  the  brethren, 
with  the  whole  church,  would  signify  their  consent,  if  it  were 
so  their  minds,  by  their  silence;  which  they  did.  After- 
wards the  pastor  declared  to  the  whole  church,  if  any,  either 
brother  or  sister,  were  dissatisfied  with  either  of  the  persons, 
or  any  particular  in  either,  it  was  desired  they  should  show 
their  dissatisfaction  by  their  standing  up;  which  none  did. 
Then  it  was  desired  likewise  by  the  pastor,  that  those  two 
brethren  elected  would  show  their  acceptance  by  their  stand- 
ing up ;  which,  after  some  pause,  they  did. 

Thus  being  elected  for  the  office,  they  are  recommended  to 
the  work  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  by  three  ministers.  The 
pastor,  Mr.  Ewins,  began  the  day,  and  closed  it  again  about 
the  fourth  hour ;  so  soon,  by  reason  [that]  some  were  to  be 
baptized  that  evening— some  that  propounded  to  join  to  the 
church,  and  some  that  were  members  before,  viz : — 

Mr.  Jennings,  a  minister.4         Robert  Jones. 
John  Fry.  Jeremiah  Courtny. 

4  [Mr.    Thomas    Jennings    was    an  county,  as  minister  of  Matson.    He  was 

ejected    minister   from    the   rectory    of  a  moderate  baptist." — Palmer's  Noncon. 

Brimsfield,  Gloucestershire.  "He  signed  Memor.  i.  531.] 
the  testimony  of  the  ministers  in  this 


92  the  records 

Thomas  Jones.  James  Bland. 

John  Pritchard.  Mrs.  Davis. 

John  Morgan.  Margaret  Williams. 

William  Evans.  Judith  Watkins. 

Richard  Dennis.  Mrs.  Hill. 

These  ten  men  and  four  women  were  all  fourteen  baptized 
together,  one  after  another,  the  sixth  day  of  the  first  month, 
1666  [1667],  in  the  evening,  at  Baptist  Mills,  in  the  river, 
by  Mr.  Thomas,  minister. 

HERE    BEHOLD    THE    MIRACULOUS    HAND   AND   WORK 
OF    THE    LORD. 

Most  of  these  persons  now  baptized,  had  neglected  and 
omitted  their  duty,  after  they  were  convinced  of  it,  all  the 
winter,  for  fear  of  the  cold ;  and  then,  about  the  beginning 
of  February,  or  the  twelfth  month,  it  happened  to  be  fine, 
warm  weather ;  about  which  time  they  pitched  upon  this  day 
to  pass  under  that  ordinance.  And  by  reason  our  pastor,  by 
a  fall  that  he  received  after  he  came  forth  of  prison,  had  a 
pain  that  did  use  to  take  him,  in  the  nature  of  a  sciatica,  it 
was  doubted  for  him  to  stand  so  long  in  the  water  might 
increase  his  said  distemper ;  therefore  the  brethren  of  the 
church  sent  for  Mr.  Thomas,  of  Wales,  pastor  of  a  church  at 
Llantrisaint,  to  be  the  administrator. 

And  the  Lord  in  his  wise  providence  so  ordered  it,  that 
when  he  came,  according  to  the  day  appointed,  it  was 
such  extreme  cold  weather,  the  like  had  not  been  all  that 
winter  before,  for  exceeding  high  and  sharp  piercing  wind, 
frost,  and  snow ;  it  was  very  violent,  though  the  snow  not 
very  deep.  But  the  wind  and  frost  so  much,  that  one  of  the 
women  to  be  baptized,  in  going  to  the  place  through  the 
meadows,  her  handkerchief  received  some  wet,  being  about 
her  neck,   was  frozen ;    and   a  distemper  upon  her  in  such 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  93 

abundance,  that  her  maid  that  waited  upon  her,  being  only 
privy  to  it,  told  her,  if  she  went  into  the  water  she  would  not 
come  forth  alive.  Also  another,  Mr.  Jennings,  the  minister, 
[was]  pained  with  the  tooth-ache  so  great,  that  his  face  was 
very  much  swelled,  bound  up,  and  by  reason  whereof  had 
not  been  out  of  his  house  near  a  week  before,  and  that  day 
very  ill  with  it.  Another  of  the  men  about  a  week  before 
sprained  his  leg;  not  able  to  go,  was  carried  upon  a  horse  to 
the  place.  Another  man  of  them  that  was  very  weakly,  thin, 
and  consumptive,  the  relations  of  whom  were  very  averse  to 
the  ordinance. 

Wherefore  some  did  fear  the  issue,  seeing  the  terrible 
sharpness  of  the  season;  but  the  persons  themselves  that 
were  to  pass  under  the  ordinance,  acted  faith  in  the  Lord; 
and  because  the  administrator  was  come  so  far  on  purpose, 
according  to  appointment,  they  would  not  defer  it  any  longer. 

And  the  Lord,  to  declare  his  power,  did,  as  it  were,  work 
a  miracle,  to  give  a  precedent  to  others  that  should  fear  the 
coldness  of  any  season  to  do  his  will.  The  Lord  preserved 
them  all;  and  not  so  much  as  one  ill,  but  rather  better  by  it; 
and  are  all  alive  to  this  day,  being  about  ten  years  since,  to 
speak  of  the  Lord's  then  goodness.  Though  some  would 
fain  have  been  then  spectators,  but  they  were  afraid  to  go, 
by  reason  it  was  such  extreme  piercing  weather,  and  con- 
tinued so  for  three  days  together ;  that  those  adversaries  that 
heard  of  it  after  it  was  done,  looked  upon  the  people  as  mad, 
that  they  would  adventure  on  such  a  work  at  such  a  season. 

Therefore  from  all,  praise,  praise,  praise,  and  glory  be  to 
the  Lord. 


94  THE    RECORDS 


NOTES   OF    A   DISCOURSE   BY    MR.  EWINS.5 

I  pray  you  may  be  crowned  with, 

1.  An  exemplary,  adorning  crown.  1  Tim.  i.  4,  12,  to  the  end. 
Be  thou  an  example  of  the  believers  in  word,  in  conversation,  in 
charity,  in  spirit,  in  faith,  in  purity,  &c.  Eccles.  x.  17,  Blessed 
art  thou,  0  land,  when  thy  king  is  the  son  of  nobles,  and  thy 
princes  eat  in  due  season,  for  strength,  and  not  for  drunkenness. 
Rev.  xvi.  15,  Blessed  is  he  that  watcheth,  and  keepeth  his  gar- 
ments, lest  he  walk  naked,  and  they  see  his  shame. 

2.  With  a  crown  of  success  in  all  your  labours.  Philip,  iv.  1, 
Therefore,  my  brethren,  dearly  beloved  and  longed  for,  my  joy 
and  crown,  so  stand  fast  in  the  Lord.  1  Thess.  ii.  and  last,  For 
ye  are  our  glory  and  joy. 

3.  With  the  crown  of  holding  fast  till  I  come.  Rev.  ii.  25, 
But  that  which  ye  have  already  hold  fast  till  I  come.  Rev.  iii. 
11,  Behold  I  come  quickly  :  hold  fast  that  which  thou  hast,  that 
no  man  take  thy  crown. 

[4.]  With  the  crown  of  righteousness.  1  Tim.  iv.  8,  But  god- 
liness is  profitable  unto  all  things,  fyc. 

[5.]  With  the  crown  of  life.  James  i.  12,  When  he  is  tried  he 
shall  receive  the  crown  of  life. 

[6.]  With  the  crown  of  glory.  1  Pet.  v.  4,  And  when  the 
chief  Shepherd  shall  appear,  ye  shall  receive  a  crown  of  glory 
that  fadeth  not  away. 

Upon  the  fifth  day  of  the  second  month,  anno  1667,  in 
consideration  of  our  pastors  illness  since  he  came  forth  of 
prison,  and  infirmities  increasing  upon  him,  being  above  fifty 
years  of  age,  the  brethren  and  pastor  moved,  that  brother 
Jennings  might  be  chosen  a  teacher  to  the  congregation,  to 
ease  our  pastor  sometimes,  that  he  might  not  preach  so  often 
as  he  did,  which  was  sometimes  ^\e,  and  usually  four  times 

6  [Thi3  sketch  of  a  sermon  is  in  Mr.  have  been  the  substance  of  hif  address 
Ewins's    handwriting,   and    appears   to       to  the  new  elders.  J 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  95 

every  week.  And  Mr.  Ewins  moved,  that  brother  Jennings, 
for  the  aforesaid  reasons  of  his  infirmities,  might  be  adminis- 
trator of  the  ordinance  of  baptism  to  the  church,  to  be  ready 
to  the  administration  of  it  as  often  as  persons  desired  it,  that 
they  might  not  be  delayed,  but  admitted  orderly. 

Upon  the  seventeenth  day  of  the  fourth  month,  1667,  Mr. 
Ewins  was  served  with  a  process  to  appear  at  the  bishop's 
court,  but  went  not. 

Upon  the  twentieth  of  said  fourth  month,  1667,  our 
pastor,  Mr.  Ewins,  was  sent  for  before  the  mayor,  Sir 
Thomas  Langton,  and  other  deputy  lieutenants,  about  a 
letter  that  was  directed  to  be  left  at  his  house,  which  they 
stopped  at  the  post.  And  because  he  would  not  depart  the 
city,  they,  through  Sir  Henry  Creswick,  sent  him  to  prison, 
to  Lawford's,  the  marshall,  by  Frog  Lane ;  where  they  kept 
*  him  until  the  20th  of  July,  the  fifth  month,  then  sent  for 
him,  and  bound  him  with  sureties  to  appear  at  sessions ;  but 
never  called. 

Upon  the  eighteenth  of  fifth  month,  1667,  these  members 

L  following  were  baptized  by  Mr.  Thomas,  then  being  in  town : 
namely,  brother  Daniel  Gwilliam,  aged  brother  Peirce,  sister 
Ann  Owen,  and  sister  Margaret  Sterry. 

Through  the  good  hand  of  the  Lord  to  give  us  some  rest, 

*  we  again  take  another  public  meeting-place,  upon  the  seventh 
day  of  the  eighth  month,  1667,  at  the  Whitson  Court,  of 
brother  Ellis,  whereto  he  had  of  late  removed  his  habitation. 
It  being  a  large  warehouse,  up  one  pair  of  stairs,  which  our 
said  brother  Ellis  had  made  very  commodious  for  the  use  of 
the  congregation.  And  there  for  some  years  we  met,  Lord's 
days  and  also  week  days,  enjoying  pretty  much  peace ;  but  not 
without  many  threats  and  endeavours  of  some,  one  Elsworthy, 
like  Sanballats.  But  the  building  of  God's  house  prospered 
there,  until  the  third  month,  1670. 

Upon   the   22nd  day  of   the   tenth   month,    1667,    sister 


96  THE    RECORDS 

Sandy  was  proposed,  and  afterwards  spoken  with,  and  joined 
to  the  congregation. 

Upon  the  second  of  the  twelfth  month,  1667,  sister  Marsh 
was  proposed,  spoken  with  the  twenty-third  day,  and  after- 
wards added  to  the  church. 

In  this  12th  month,  1667,  brother  Brag  and  sister  Moore, 
after  divers  times  dealing  with  them  from  the  church,  and 
long  patient  waiting  their  reforming  their  conversation,  and 
places  in  the  church,  they  were  both  ejected,  by  declaring 
them  no  members  of  this  congregation. 

Anno  1668. 

Upon  the  fifteenth  of  the  twelfth  month,  1668,  aged 
Mr.  Teather  was  propounded  to  the  church,  spoken  with 
the  second  of  first  month  following,  and  afterwards  baptized 
in  the  river  Frome,  though  above  eighty  years  of  age, 
and  joined  member  to  this  church. 

Brother  Robert  Bodenham,  upon  the  21st  day  of  the  first 
month,  1668,  was  proposed,  and  afterwards  spoken  with,  and 
baptized,  and  joined  a  member  to  this  said  congregation.6 

Anno  1669. 

Sister  Martha  Griffon,  in  the  third  month,  anno  1669,  pro- 
posed to  join  with  the  congregation,  and  thereabout  spoken 
with,  and  gave  a  good  account  for  us  to  hope  there  was 
a  true  work  of  God  on  her  soul:  but  she  was  not  then 
received,  for  there  was  little  done  this  year,  by  reason  our 
pastor,  Mr.  Ewins,  declined  very  fast.  But  our  public 
meetings  were  supplied  by  other  ministers  during  his  weak- 
ness, which  at  last  was  so  great  that  he  kept  his  house  and 
chamber  near  five  months. 

8  [This  brother  continued  half  a  cen-       eighteen  years  of  age  when  he  professed 
tury  with  the  church,  and  was  a  boun-       himself  a  disciple  of  Christ.] 
tiful    benefactor    to   it.      Ho   was    only 


i 


of  a  church  of  christ.  97 

Anno  1670. 

Our  pastor,  brother  Ewins,  having  lain  a  great  while 
weak,  he  departed  this  life  in  the  second  month,  1670, 
having  faithfully  served  his  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ, 
near  towards  twenty  years  in  this  eity,  in  the  work  of  the 
ministry ;  preaching  clearly  the  gospel  of  free  grace,  by  faith 
in  Christ  Jesus,  wherein  he  laboured  abundantly,  in  the 
public  [places],  and  in  his  particular  charge — the  congre- 
gation ;  and  also  would  go  and  preach  to  the  poor  people  in 
their  almshouses  at  Michael's  Hill,  and  Lawford's  Gate  alms- 
house, once  a  fortnight,  in  the  morning ;  and  in  those  times 
of  liberty  would,  for  some  convenient  seasons,  set  up  a 
lecture,  and  preach  at  Bedminster  and  other  places.  And  at 
other  times,  during  the  winter  long  evenings,  would  keep  an 
expository  lecture  or  meeting  at  T'Ewins  church,  and  some- 
times at  Leonard's  church,  besides  his  constant  public  preach- 
ing, as  he  was  one  of  the  city  lecturers,  every  third  day, 
Tuesday,  at  Nicolas  church,  and  every  fifth  day  (Thursday), 
at  the  church  meeting  of  conference,  and  twice  every  Lord's 
day  constantly:  besides  many  times  a  word  to  the  church, 
after  that  those  who  were  not  members  were  departed, 
upon  the  Lord's  day,  in  the  evening,  at  the  church's  select 
meeting. 

Thus,  as  one  unwearied  to  serve  the  Lord  Jesus,  he  took 
all  opportunities,  doing  good  ;  insomuch  that  many  ministers 
did  admire  him  for  his  great,  diligent  labours,  and  that  he 
had  always  variety  of  matter;  which,  though  he  had  not  the 
original  tongues,  yet  God  did  endue  him  with  great  grace, 
and  a  quick  understanding  in  the  things  of  God,  and  [in]  the 
gospel  of  our  Lord  Jesus,  to  the  winning  and  converting 
many  souls  to  Christ,  and  building  and  binding  up  the 
broken-hearted.  He  was  a  man  full  of  self-denial,  and 
subduing  his  natural  temper ;  so  that  he  walked  very  lovely 
and   holy  in   his   conversation,    showing   patience  where   it 

H 


08  THE    RECORDS 

required,  and  meekness  toward  all  men ;  visiting  all  his 
members  carefully,  and  searching  into  the  state  of  their 
souls ;  and  by  some  ministers  that  were  his  familiars  [it  was] 
observed  and  said,  they  never  saw  him  over  merry  nor  over 
sad,  but  given  to  prayer  and  almsdeeds. 

He  was  interred  in  James's  Yard,  the  29th  day  of  the 
second  month,  April,  anno  Domini,  1670,  accompanied  with 
many  hundreds  to  the  grave,  the  like  funeral  not  seen  long 
before  in  Bristol.  He  left  so  good  a  savour  behind  for  faith- 
fulness to  God,  and  humility  towards  man,  that  his  very 
chief  persecutor,  Sir  John  Knight,  said,  He  did  believe  he 
was  gone  to  heaven. 

TO   MR.    TERRILL,    FOR   THE   CHURCH.6 

Dear  Brother, — Understanding  that  some  friends  intend  to 
become  suitors  at  the  throne  of  grace  this  day  on  my  behalf,  I 
think  good  to  send  these  few  lines  for  information,  to  acquaint 
you  that  being  weak,  I  cannot  conveniently  be  with  you  ;  but  hope 
I  shall  meet  you  with  some  few  sighs  and  groans  to  Him  that 
heareth  prayer  :  first,  that  the  God  of  all  grace  and  health  will 
command  health  and  cure  to  the  soul  and  body,  chiefly  to  that 
soul  of  all  soul  maladies,  unbelief,  and  all  the  fruits  thereof;  and 
also  to  body,  for  the  cure  of  those  maladies  which  unfit  for  work 
and  service,  especially  melancholy,  and  the  fruits  thereof;  and 
that  God  will,  of  his  infinite  riches  of  grace  and  mercy,  bestow  a 
double  portion  of  his  blessed  Spirit  both  upon  me  and  upon  the 
whole  congregation,  that  we  may  obtain  more  of  the  blessed 
spirit  of  adoption,  and  all  the  fruits  thereof.  Amen.  Which  is 
all  at  present  from  your  weak  brother, 

Thomas  Ewins.7 

The  Lord  give  you  much  of  his  presence,  and  grant  that  his 
car  may  be  open  to  your  prayers. 

e  [This  undated  letter  was  written  to  ceeding  are  likewise  in  his  handwriting.  | 
the  church  during  the  last  illness  of  Mr.  7  [The  following  additional  inibrma- 

Ewins;  the  two  church  documents  sue-       Hon  of  this  excellent  man  is  gleaned 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  99 


A    CHURCH    LETTER. 


Dearly  beloved  Sister, — Your  brethren  and  sisters  of  this 
church  of  Christ  in  Bristol,  of  which  you  are  a  member,  sendeth 
greeting  unto  you,  wishing  a  daily  increase  of  all  grace,  mercy, 
and  peace,  from  God,  even  the  Father,  and  from  Jesus  Christ 
our  Lord,  and  only  Saviour,  through  the  constant  supplies  of  the 
blessed  Spirit  of  promise. 

Dear  Sister, — Your  brethren,  taking  into  consideration  how 
many  of  the  members  of  this  church  are,  at  present,  by  the  wise 
disposing  providence  of  God,  cast  at  a  great  distance  from  us,  at 
least  in  habitation,  though  we  trust  they  are  not  so  in  spirit  nor 
affection,  it  came  into  our  hearts  of  late  to  consider  which  way 
we  might  express  our  love  to  you,  and  discharge  our  duty 
towards  you  in  a  way  of  service  to  your  soul ;  and  the  only  way 
we  could  pitch  upon  was  this,  of  writing  a  few  lines  severally  to 
each  of  you.     The  drift  and  scope  whereof  is  to  this  end : — 

I.  To  let  you  know  that  though  we  seldom  see  you,  or  hear  from 
you,  yet  that  you  are  in  our  hearts  to  desire  and  endeavour  the 
eternal  welfare  of  your  precious  soul,  and  that  we  do  account  and 
esteem  you  very  dear  unto  us,  as  a  member  of  this  congregation ; 
hoping  that  you  do  so  reckon  and  account  of  yourself,  and  not 
only  so,  but  that  you  do  also  endeavour  faithfully  to  approve 
yourselves  living  members  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  of  his  body,  the 
church.  It  would  be  great  joy  to  us  to  hear  sometimes  from 
you,  and  of  the  gracious  dealing  of  God  with  you,  and  of  the 
spiritual  growth  and  increase  of  all  grace  in  you,  and  that  you 
do  stand  fast  in  the  Lord,  and  in  his  ways,  notwithstanding  all  the 

from  Calamy  : — He  had   been   a   me-  for  his  patience,  meekness,  and  charity, 

chanic,  but  was  sent  out  to  preach  by  so  scrupulous  about  maintenance,  that 

the  church  meeting  at   Allhallows,   in  he  would  accept  no  tithes,  nor  salary, 

London,  with  one  Mr.  T.  Barnes.     Al-  but  only  free  gifts.     Upon  the  restora- 

though  not  a  scholar,  he  was  a  judicious  tion  he  soon  quitted  the  public  pulpits; 

methodical   preacher  ;    was  very   labo-  and  although  courted  to  conformity  by 

rious  and  successful.    One  sermon  upon  the  bishop,  refused  to  comply.  Palmer's 

blind  Bartimeus  was  the  means  of  con-  Noncon.  Mem.  ii.  351.] 
version  to  many.     He  was  remarkable 

H    2 


100  THE    RECORDS 

trials  and  temptations  that  may  have  befallen  yon,  as  it  hath 
many  others  of  the  precious  people  of  the  Lord,  in  this  cloudy 
and  dark  day. 

II.  The  second  end  of  this  our  writing  is  to  communicate  a  few 
things,  in  particular,  to  each  of  you,  for  the  spiritual  advantage 
of  your  souls,  both  to  comfort,  establish,  and  exhort  you  in 
the  Lord. 

As  first,  that  you  would  endeavour  to  stand  fast  in  the  Lord, 
and  in  every  truth  of  God,  as  you  have  been  taught,  and  that  you 
be  not  shaken  nor  removed  concerning  the  great  and  precious 
doctrine  of  free  justification  by  grace,  through  faith  in  the  blood 
and  righteousness  of  Jesus  Christ,  nor  from  Christ  crucified,  and 
the  simplicity  of  the  gospel  of  the  grace  of  God. 

Secondly,  that  you  would  also  endeavour  to  maintain  and  keep 
up  the  lively  actings  of  faith  in  Christ  the  head,  as  a  living 
branch  in  the  vine  always  fetching  sap  and  nourishment  from 
him,  John  xv.  1—4,  as  knowing  that  without  him,  or  severed 
from  him,  we  can  do  nothing,  verse  15. 

III.  That  you  strive  after  the  life  and  power  of  godliness — 
reaching  after  inward  purity  of  heart,  and  the  spirit  of  holiness — 
mortifying  the  inward  secret  motions  of  sins,  lusts,  and  passions 
of  the  flesh — making  and  keeping  clean  the  inside  of  the  cup,  as 
Matt,  xxiii.  26,  that  the  outside  may  be  clean  also. 

IV.  Let  your  conversation  be  as  becometh  the  gospel  of  peace, 
in  all  meekness  and  sobriety,  blameless  and  harmless,  as  the 
children  of  God,  shining  as  lights  in  the  world,  adorning  the 
gospel,  and  convincing  gainsayers  ;  that  if  there  be  any  near  you 
that  be  strangers  to  the  ways  of  God,  they  may,  beholding  your 
good  conversation,  be  brought  to  think  well,  and  speak  well,  of 
the  ways  of  Christ.     Oh,  read  1  Peter  iii.  3  — 4. 

V.  We  admonish  and  exhort  you  in  the  Lord,  that  you  take 
heed  of  any  sinful  compliance  with  the  evils  of  the  times,  either 
by  conforming  to  any  ways  of  false  worship,  which  Christ  never 
instituted  in  his  churches,  or  by  fashioning  yourself  according  to 
the  sinful  modes  and  customs  of  the  times. 

VI.  We  beseech  you,  labour  to  walk  with  God  in  your  place 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  101 

and  capacity  ;  be  much  in  secret  closet  duties,  as  in  reading  the 
holy  word  of  God,  private  prayer,  and  communion  with  God  ; 
and  cry  earnestly  to  God  for  the  blessed  Spirit,  who  only  is  able 
to  lead  you  into  all  truth,  to  comfort  you  in  all  troubles,  to 
strengthen  you  against  all  trials,  and  to  make  you  glad  and 
joyful  in  the  midst  of  all  sorrows  and  sadness. 

VII.  Be  often  minding  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  and  daily 
preparing  for  the  same,  having  your  lamps  burning,  your  loins 
girded,  and  oil  in  your  vessels,  that  so  with  the  wise  virgins  you 
may  enter  in,  and  possess,  and  enjoy  eternal  happiness  with  God 
and  Christ,  saints  and  angels,  for  evermore. 

Now  the  God  and  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  set  home 
and  bless  these  few  lines  unto  you ;  and  we  pray  God  to  bless, 
preserve,  sanctify,  and  keep  your  soul,  and  spirit,  and  body, 
blameless  unto  the  appearing  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  you 
and  we  may  meet  at  that  day  with  joy  and  comfort.    Amen. 

In  the  name  and  by  the  appointment  of  the  whole  church. 
Signed  by  us,  Bristol,    the  day  of  the  month, 

1665. 


LETTER    OF    RECOMMENDATION    TO   A   MEMBER. 
Bristol,  this  22nd  day  of  the  fourth  month,  June,  1669. 
To  any  of  the  churches  of  Jesus  Christ  where  this  bearer,  our 
sister,    may   come.       Grace   and    peace   be   multiplied    unto 
you,  &c. 
We  do  hereby  certify  that  this  our  beloved  sister,  Anne  Wade, 
hath  been  for  some  time,  and  still  remains,  a  member  in  fellow- 
ship with  this  congregation  in  Bristol,  being  one  that  is  very  dear 
unto  us  upon  Christ's  account.     We  do,  therefore,  recommend  her 
unto  you,  beseeching  you  to  receive  her  in  the  Lord,  and  to  admit 
her  into  communion  and  fellowship  with  you,  in  all  the  ordinances 
and  privileges  of  the  house  of  God.     So  we  remain, 
Your  brethren  in  the  faith  and  fellowship  of  the  gospel  of  Christ, 

Thomas  Ewins,         Robert  Simpson, 
Edward  Terrill,     George  Robinson, 
Thomas  Ellis,         William  Dickason, 


10'2  THE    RECORDS 

Letter  from  a  church  in  London,  to  the  church  of  Christ  walking  in 
the  fellowship  of  the  gospel  with  our  beloved  brother,  Thomas 
Ewins,  in  Bristol* 

Dearly  beloved  Brethren, — All  grace  be  to  you,  and  peace 
from  God  our  Father,  and  from  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who 
gave  himself  for  our  sins,  and  ever  lives  to  plead  our  cause,  in 
whom  we  are  complete  ;  to  whom  be  glory  for  ever  in  his 
churches.     Amen. 

Having  heard  of  your  unfeigned  love,  care,  and  kindness, 
towards  our  beloved  brother,  John  James,  we  desire  to  bless  the 
Lord,  and  acknowledge  you  for  it,  being  assured  you  well  know 
that  Christ  hath  given  more  abundant  honour  to  that  member 
which  lacked,  that  no  division  might  be  made  in  his  church,  but 
every  member  should  have  the  same  care  one  for  another ,  1  Cor. 
xii.  25 ;  and,  therefore,  do  hope  the  same  holy  care  and  love  will 
be  enlarged  towards  him,  as  towards  all  the  saints  of  God  ;  and, 
therefore,  our  Lord  Jesus  exhorts  us  to  grow  and  abound  in  it 
more  and  more,  Phil.  i.  9.  He  that  hath  called  us  is  love,  1  John 
iv.  8 ;  his  Spirit,  a  Spirit  of  love,  2  Tim.  i.  7 ;  his  law,  a  law  of 
love,  James  ii.  12,  13  ;  his  followers,  a  communion  of  love, 
1  Cor.  x.  17  ;  his  ordinances,  ordinances  of  love ;  and  our 
vocation,  a  calling  of  love ;  and  ere  long,  when  Christ,  our 
Shepherd,  doth  appear  to  make  up  all  his  jewels,  then  shall  all 
his  sheep,  though  of  divers  colours,  be  gathered  into  one  fold. 
Then  will  he  perfect  his  saints  in  love,  then  shall  all  their  sins 
and  errors  be  taken  from  them,  and  righteousness,  truth,  and 
glory,  be  put  upon  them  ;  then  shall  the  many  accusations  among 


8  [This  letter  is  from  the  church  of  bers,  and  serves  to  show  the  spirit  and 

which  Mr.  H.  Jessey  had  been  pastor,  the    custom    prevalent    at    that    time 

and  with  which  the  Bristol  church  had  amongst  the  churches,  when  the  ties  of 

subsequently  much   correspondence  on  church  membership  were  more  strongly 

the  choice  of  Mr.  Hardcastle  for  their  felt,  whilst  the  care  of  the  whole  for 

pastor,  who  was  a  member  of  that  Lon-  every  one  was  more  feelingly  manifested, 

don   church.     It  is  a  letter  of  thanks  than  is  witnessed  in  our  own  day.] 
for  attention  given  to  one  of  their  mem- 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  103 

brethren  cease,  and  Satan,  the  accuser  of  all  the  brethren,  be 
righteously  silenced. 

In  the  meanwhile  let  us  prepare  for  that  day,  neither  eating 
nor  drinking  with  the  drunkards,  nor  beating  our  fellow-servants  ; 
pressing  after  this  great  mark ;  judging  our  own  souls,  but 
erecting  no  throne  on  earth  to  judge  the  hearts  and  consciences 
of  others,  for  our  Father  hath  reserved  that  for  his  own  throne, 
and  the  judgment  of  the  last  day,  1  Cor.  iv.  5,  x.  29. 

And  what  is  sinful  man,  subject  to  more  darkness  and  blindness 
than  his  brother,  differenced  only  by  the  communication  of  gift, 
that  he  should  lay  his  hand  upon  the  Lord's  throne  ?  Wherefore, 
dear  brethren,  be  ye  stedfast,  immoveable,  wax  not  cold,  but 
strive  to  abound  in  the  love  of  the  Lord,  always  abhorring  that 
which  is  evil,  Rom.  xii.  9  ;  hating  the  things  which  God  hates, 
Rev.  ii.  6 ;  and  the  God  of  all  grace,  who  hath  chosen  us  to  be 
holy  in  love,  Eph.  i.  4,  and  loved  us,  that  we  should  be  holy 
even  as  he  is  holy,  give  unto  you,  and  unto  us  (the  most  un- 
worthy), and  unto  all  his  Israel,  more  of  the  spirit  of  love,  of 
wisdom,  and  of  a  sound  mind,  to  approve  those  things  that  are 
excellent,  and  disprove  things  that  cause  to  err ;  that  purging  the 
house  of  God  from  old  leaven,  we  may  be  sincere,  and  without 
offence,  at  the  coming  of  our  Lord,  Phil.  i.  10. 

Dear  brethren,  many  trials  may  yet  attend  us,  we  have  not  yet 
resisted  unto  blood  ;  wickedness  makes  more  haste  for  vengeance, 
than  love,  humiliation,  and  holiness,  for  recompence.  The  Lord's 
winnowing  and  sifting  time  may  yet  be  more  general,  and  more 
sharp.  We  had  need  see  our  loins  be  girt,  and  our  light 
burning,  that  no  man  rob  us  of  our  crown.  Mount  Zion  looks 
not  as  if  all  God's  work  were  done  upon  her  ;  new  breaches  [are] 
made  and  old  ones  unrepaired,  and  like  to  bring  upon  us  more 
wrath,  yet  you  know  who  hath  said,  For  my  name's  sake  will  I 
defer  mine  anger,  [Isaiah  xlviii.  9.] 

Now  unto  the  King  eternal,  immortal,  invisible,  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  the  only  wise  God,  be  honour,  glory,  and  dominion, 
for  ever  and  for  ever.    Amen. 


104  THE    RECORDS 

Your  brethren  in  the  fellowship  of  the  gospel,  subscribed  by 
appointment  of  the  church, 

Michael  Dunwell,      Samuel  Buttall, 
Nathaniel  Hall,  John  Smith, 

Thomas  Chapple,  William  Nuttall. 

London,  21st  of  the  fourth  month  [July],  1669. 


OUR   PERSECUTIONS. 

The  Lord  took  away  our  pastor  from  the  evil  to  come,  for 
a  general  persecution  arose  in  the  next  month  after  he 
deceased.  On  the  10th  of  the  third  month  [May],  1670,  the 
act  against  conventicles  commenced,9  which  was  the  for- 
feiture of  twenty  pounds  to  be  levied  on  every  one  that 
preached,  for  any  one  offence,  and  twenty  pounds  for  the 
house  or  ground  where  we  met ;  and  five  shillings  the  first 
time,  and  ten  shillings  every  time  after  the  first  conviction 
for  the  hearers ;  to  be  levied  by  distress  upon  the  persons 
convicted,  their  goods  or  chattels.  Which  persecution  was 
general  over  the  church  in  the  nation,  especially  where 
any  in  office  was  willing  to  trouble,  because  there  was 
£100  fine  upon  the  justice  of  peace,  who,  upon  information 
brought  before  him,  would  not  prosecute. 

Which  trouble  was  our  seventh  persecution  in  Bristol, 
since  king  Charles  II.  returned : — 

The  first  was  in  Sir  Henry  Creswick's  year,  1660,  [when] 
our  persecutions  began. 

9  [The  revival  of  the  former  act  re-  venticles;  they  that  fled,  or  removed  their 
ceived  the  royal  assent  on  the  11th  dwelling  into  another  county,  should 
April,  1670.  It  was  made  more  severe  be  pursued  by  execution.'"  Baxter's 
than  before  ;  "  the  fault  of  the  mitti-  Narr.  part  iii.  p.  74.  Rapin,  ii.  655. 
mus  should  not  disable  it ;  all  doubtful  For  the  persecutions  endured  by  bap- 
clauses  in  the  act  should  be  interpreted,  tists  in  other  parts  of  the  country,  see 
as  would  favour  the  suppression  of  con-  Crosby,  ii,  244,  &c] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  105 

The  second  persecution  was  in  Alderman  Cale's  mayoralty, 
anno  1661,  when  about  a  month  our  pastor  was  imprisoned. 

The  third  was  by  the  deputy  lieutenants :  began  26th 
October,  anno  1662. 

The  fourth  persecution,  like  a  violent  storm,  began  upon 
us  in  the  beginning  of  Sir  John  Knight's  mayoralty;  and 
in  the  third  month  following,  the  act  to  banish  us  came 
forth. 

The  fifth  persecution  was  by  Alderman  Lawford,  in  his 
year,  1664;  both  these  coming  together  were  very  heavy 
upon  us,  for  their  continuance. 

The  sixth  persecution  arose  in  Sir  Thomas  Langton's  year, 
anno  1666  ;  so  that 

This,  our  seventh  persecution,  in  Sir  Robert  Yeaman's 
year,  began  tenth  day,  third  month,  1670. 

The  first  Lord's  day  after  said  tenth  of  third  month,  the 
informers  from  the  bishop  (that  was  then  one  Ironsides1)  came 
upon  us ;  and  because  we  did  not  know  which  way  they 
would  begin  upon  us,  we  shut  our  public  meeting-house  door 
when  we  understood  they  were  coming.  Then  they  fetched  con- 
stables, and  broke  open  the  door,  came  in,  and  took  our  names, 
for  which  some  of  us  were  brought  before  the  magistrates  and 
convicted.  Then,  against  the  next  Lord's  day,  we  broke  a 
wall,  up  on  high,  for  a  window,  and  put  the  speaker  in  the 
next  house  to  stand  and  preach,  whereby  we  heard  him  as 
well  as  if  in  the  room  with  us.  The  bishop's  informers  come 
in  again,  take  our  names,  for  which  we  were  again  brought 


1  [Gilbert  Ironsides  the  elder,  was  he,  "to  endeavour,  as  much  as  in  us 
appointed  to  the  see  of  Bristol  in  Dec.  lies,  the  promoting  of  so  blessed  a  work, 
1660,  and  died  in  1671,  aged  eighty-  ....  by  God's  help,  and  the  assistance 
three.  The  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  of  the  civil  power,  considering  the  abund- 
Gilbert  Sheldon,  by  a  circular  letter,  ant  care  and  provisions  this  act  con- 
dated  May  7,  1670,  strongly  urged  upon  tains  for  our  great  advantages.'' 
all  his  diocesans  the  execution  of  the  Doc.  Annals,  ii.  276.] 
conventicle  act,     "  It  becomes  us,"  said 


106 


THE    RECORDS 


before  the  mayor,  and  convicted.  So  they  did  the  third 
Lord's  day.  And  the  fourth  Lord's  day,  the  mayor  himself, 
with  his  officers  and  some  aldermen,  came  upon  us,  and 
turned  us  out;  but  seeing  they  could  not  make  us  refrain 
our  meeting,  they  raised  the  train  bands  every  last  day  of 
the  week,  in  the  evening,  one  band  to  keep  us  out  of  our 
places,  and  nailed  up  our  doors,  and  put  locks  upon  them  ;  so 
they  kept  us  out  by  force  and  power,  that  we  were  fain  to 
meet  in  the  lanes  and  highways  for  several  months. 

Then  brother  Terrill  having  moved  his  habitation  from 
Corn  Street,  to  his  garden  house,  near  Lawford's  Gate,  we 
had  the  benefit  of  being  at  his  house  until  we  had  obtained 
the  mercy  to  have  another  pastor ;  and  the  Lord  so  ordered 
it,  that  Alderman  John  Knight,  of  the  Sugar-house,  being 
mayor,  he  did  wink  at  our  thus  meeting,  and  was  not  ready 
to  receive  every  information ;  whereby  the  Lord  gave  us 
some  rest  there,  until  the  sixth  month,  1671. 

Brother  Henry  Ford,  upon  the  15th  day  of  third  month, 
1670,  was  proposed  to  join. 

Brother  Cornish,  upon  the  22nd  day  of  third  month,  1670, 
was  proposed  to  join. 

In  this  year,  1670,  our  pastor  being  deceased,  the  church 
did  not  break  bread  until  we  had  another  pastor,  yet  kept  up 
our  monthly  day  of  prayer,  as  we  used  to  do  before  breaking 
of  bread ;  and  the  church,  though  they  had  no  pastor,  yet 
they  did,  notwithstanding,  deal  with  members  that  walked 
irregular  in  their  conversations,  and  they  cast  out  some 
from  amongst  them,  and  received  in  others  to  be  members 
with  them.  Thus  having  ruling  elders,  by  them  they  carried 
on  and  managed  the  church  power,  and  kept  up  all  their 
meetings  duly,  only  forbore  breaking  of  bread,  that  holy 
ordinance,  till  they  had  a  pastor,  whose  proper  work  it  is  to 
administer  the  same. 

One  person  cast  out  was  Philip  Sciphard;  who,  then  being 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  107 

a  member,  was  [excluded]  after  divers  times  dealing  with, 
according  to  the  rule  of  our  Lord,  for  his  scandalous  walking 
in  excess  of  drinking,  though  he  several  times  covered, 
evaded,  and  justified  himself  for  want  of  due  proof.  At  last, 
his  sin  that  he  lived  in  found  him  out ;  for  it  happened  that 
two  brethren  saw  him  overcome  in  drink,  and  therefore  at  a 
church  meeting,  he  being  present,  his  evils  were  laid  before 
him,  and  by  the  eldest  ruling  elder,  brother  Ellis,  at  his 
house,  the  said  Philip  Sciphard  was  cast  out  of  the  congre- 
gation, in  the  fifth  month,  anno  Domini,  1670. 

This  church  wanting  a  pastor,  brother  Terrill  wrote  a 
letter  to  that  eminent  and  worthy  servant  of  the  Lord,  Mr. 
Vavasor  Powell,  minister  of  the  gospel,  who  then  was  in 
London,2  to  entreat  him  to  use  his  endeavour  to  help  us 
with  an  able,  learned  minister,  that  might  be  our  pastor ; 
telling  him  he  had  heard  of  one  Mr.  Hardcastle,  not  long 
before  added  to  them,  Mr.  Jessey's  people;  [inquiring] 
whether  he  judged  him  a  fit  man  for  us,  and  whether  he 
were  free,  and  not  set  apart  to  office  by  them,  that  is,  Mr. 
Jessey's  congregation  ;  whether  we  might  have  him,  or 
whether  he  knew  of  any  other  more  fit. 

Said  Mr.  Powell  returned  answer  to  brother  Terrill,  that 
Mr.  Hardcastle,  he  judged,  would  be  very  fit  for  us  if  we 
could  but  obtain  him ;  and  that  he  was  not  set  apart  by  that 
church  to  office  as  yet,  but  they  had  some  such  intentions,  if 
they  liked  each  other. 

[2  After  more  than  eight  years'  im-  committed   to  the  Maroon  House,  the 

prisonment,  in  not  less   than   thirteen  then  Fleet  Prison,  in  Lambeth,  where, 

prisons,  for  the  truth's  sake,  Mr.  Powell  after  thirty  day's  illness,  he  finished  his 

was  brought  to  London  ona  the  22nd  course  on  the  27th  October,  1670.     He 

October,  1669,  under  a  writ  Alias,  the  was  therefore  in    prison    at    the    date 

writ  Habeas  Corpus  being  unheeded  by  of    this    correspondence.  —  Crosby,    ii. 

the  sheriff.     But,  although  the  return  230,  381.] 
was  adjudged  false  and  illegal,  he  was 


108  THE    RECORDS 

LETTER   OF    VAVASOR    POWELL. 
To  Mr.  Edward  Terrill. 

Much  honoured  and  worthy  Brother, — I  received  yours 
by  the  hand  of  our  dear  brother  the  bearer,3  and,  as  I  have  told 
him,  will  most  readily  and  really  serve  you,  and  the  rest  of  the 
saints  with  you,  either  by  improving  my  interest  to  procure  you  a 
fit  person  to  go  before  you  in  the  congregation,  or  any  other 
way  I  am  capable  ;  although  my  restraints  may  prevent  in  part. 

Mr.  Hardcastle,  that  you  name,  is  at  present  in  prison,  otherwise 
he  is  not  perfectly  fixed  with  the  church  brother  Jessey  formerly 
belonged  to,  though  joined  to  them  as  a  member,  and  upon  trial 
to  be  their  pastor.  Yet  the  church  being  but  small,  and  having 
Mr.  Abbot  among  them,  it  is  not  impossible,  nor  altogether  im- 
probable, that  at  your  request,  and  for  a  more  public  good,  he 
may  be  spared  by  them;  but  brother  Teague  can  better  satisfy 
you  therein,  having  had  better  opportunity  to  discourse  with  him 
and  other  friends  about  it.  Mr.  Hardcastle  is  my  brother-in-law, 
and  if  that  may  influence  anything,  in  ca*e  he  can  be  set  at 
liberty,  I  shall  further  move  in  it;  although,  indeed,  things  at 
present  are  in  such  a  posture,  that  it  is  very  hard  to  know  what 
to  do  in  lesser  matters.  I  shall  advise,  as  I  have  opportunity, 
with  friends  about  it,  and  signify  to  you  what  can  be  done 
therein. 

I  rejoice  greatly  to  hear  of  your  courage  and  care,  and  of  the 
gracious  providence  and  preservation  of  Jehovah  towards  you 
hitherto.  Our  safety  is  in  the  Lord,  and  in  doing  our  duty  and 
cleaving  close  to  him.  Such  have  the  promise  of  preservation 
from  the  hour  of  temptation,  Rev.  iii.  10.  We  are  appointed 
and  commanded  to  be  partakers  of  the  afflictions  of  the  gospel, 
1  Thess.  iii.  3.  To  be  some  of  the  forwardest  therein  is  an 
honour,  which  I  perceive  God  is  calling  you  to  ;  therefore  rejoice, 
and  so  much  the  more  as  tribulations  abound,  2  Cor.  vii.  4.     Our 

A  [The  bearer  wus  brother  Teague,  Terrill'a  Utter  to  Mr.  Powell  is  not  to 
an  elder  of  Mr.  Hynam's  church.     Mr.       lie  found. J 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  109 

trials  are  like  to  be  sharp,  but  it  is  to  be  hoped  so  much  the 
shorter.  However,  what  are  the  worst  and  greatest  we  can 
endure  here,  in  comparison  of  the  weight  of  glory,  and  crown  of 
righteousness,  prepared  and  reserved  for  those  that  continue  faith- 
ful to  the  end.  An  interest  in  God  through  Christ,  his  presence 
with,  power  under,  Spirit  in,  and  promises  to  us,  are  sufficient  to 
carry  us  comfortably  through  fire  and  water;  herein  let  us 
remember  one  another,  and  all  the  Israel  of  God,  who  are  in 
several  countries  now  intended  by  men  to  be  sheep  for  the 
slaughter,  though  the  thought  of  the  Lord  may  be  otherwise. 

The  letter  is  stayed  for,  and  therefore  I  can  only  add  my  own 
and  my  wife's  dear  love  and  service,  with  thanks  for  both  your 
kindness,  to  you  and  dear  Mrs.  Terrill.     Our  respects  also  to  all 
other  friends,  C.  Ell[is],  Mr.  R.  B.,  Han.  Barnes,  &c, 
Your  truly  affectionate  brother, 

D.       M.       Y.  V.    P. 

6.     4.     70.     [June  6th,  1670.] 

Whereupon  this  congregation  wrote  a  letter  to  Mr.  Thos. 
Hardcastle,  signed  in  the  name  of  the  whole  church  by 
twelve  of  the  brethren,  to  come  to  us  upon  trial  to  be  our 
pastor ;  but  then  Satan  in  his  instruments  raging  in  London, 
as  well  as  here,  Mr.  Hardcastle  was  taken  preaching,  and 
cast  into  prison  in  London  for  six  months.  We  were  there- 
fore fain  to  wait  that  time  out. 

Letter  from  a   church  of  Christ  in  Bristol  to   their  dearly  beloved 
brother  Mr.  Thomas  Hardcastle,  minister  of  the  gospel. 

Honoured  Sir,  —  As  personally  unknown  we  salute  you 
in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who,  as  our  great  Shepherd  and 
King,  ordereth  all  things  in  his  church ;  to  whose  divine  and 
unsearchable  wisdom  it  hath  seemed  good  to  take  from  us  to 
himself  that  worthy  instrument,  our  dear  pastor,  Mr.  Ewins, 
who,  as  a  candle,  for  many  years  he  continued  in  this  candlestick, 
his  church.     And  we,  being  now  in  that  respect  as   orphans, 


110  THE    RECORDS 

cannot  but  adore  the  Lord's  gracious  providence  in  preparing  one 
so  suitable  for  us  his  poor  flock  as  yourself;  which  makes  us 
hope,  that  according  to  our  former  experiences  of  the  Lord  in  all 
his  seeming  adverse  providences  towards  us  his  poor  unworthy 
people,  we  can,  through  his  rich  grace,  write  Eben-ezer. 

So  now  in  this  particular  dispensation  of  his  holy  will,  we  are 
encouraged  to  believe  he  will  not  leave  nor  forsake  us  ;  but  that 
he  doth  provide  and  take  care  of  us,  answering  our  prayers ;  for 
we  hope  this  to  be  one  manifestation  of  it,  that  you  are  not  fixed 
nor  settled  over  any  other  people.  Therefore,  dear  Sir,  we 
earnestly  entreat  you,  as  soon  as  the  prison  doors  shall  be  opened 
to  you,  that  you  will  come  to  us  upon  trial,  to  supply  the  room  of 
our  deceased  pastor.  We  shall  provide  a  house  for  you  against 
you  come,  and  shall  endeavour  a  comfortable  subsistence  likewise, 
hoping  to  your  content. 

We  should  be  glad  to  hear  from  you  during  the  restraint,  sup- 
posing it  will  not  be  long  ere  the  Lord  buret  your  bonds,  if 
friends  with  you  use  their  endeavours.  In  the  mean  season  we 
commend  you  into  the  hands  of  our  ever-blessed  Redeemer,  who 
is  able  to  fill  you  with  consolation  in  the  midst  of  your  prison 
temptations  ;  and  for  the  present  we  take  leave,  and  remain  your 
brethren  in  the  fellowship  of  the  gospel. 

Subscribed  by  the  appointment  of  the  church, 

Thomas  Ellis,  Daniel  Gwilliam, 

Edward  Terrill,  Jeremiah  Courtney, 

Robert  Simpson,  Joseph  Fry, 

Richard  White,  Henry  Pearce, 

John  Shuter,  Robert  Bodenham, 

William  Dickason,  John  Morgan. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  1  1 1 

Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle*  in  reply  to  this  church. 

These  for  the  church  of  Christ  at  Bristol,  formerly  walking 
with  Mr.  Ewins. 

Dearly  beloved  Friends  and  Brethren, — I  received  a 
letter  from  you  some  weeks  ago,  which  at  once  was  matter  of 
wonder,  comfort,  and  trouble.  That  I  had  such  an  esteem  among 
you,  though  unknown  and  unworthy,  did  occasion  the  two 
former.  That  I  am  not  in  a  capacity  to  serve  the  Lord  and  you, 
according  to  your  desire  and  expectations,  does  administer  no 
small  grief  unto  me ;  and  this  is  the  chief  reason  of  my  delay  in 
giving  you  an  answer,  because  I  could  not  do  it  to  your  satisfac- 
tion. The  account  I  have  had  of  your  city,  the  bottom  or 
ground  of  your  communion,  with  an  open  door  and  opportunity 
for  service,  with  other  circumstances,  are  such  as  would  have 
much  encouraged  me  to  have  come  among  you. 

I  am  related,  as  you  know,  to  that  church  with  whom  formerly 
Mr.  Jessey  walked,  as  a  member  and  a  minister,  and  upon  trial 
for  eldership.5 

I  have  acquainted  them  with  your  motion,  but  they  seem  to  be 
altogether  unwilling  to  hearken  to  it,  or  to  part  with  their  interest 
in  me ;  and  this  answer  I  was  desired  by  them  to  return  to  you, 
which  they  would  have  done  by  themselves,  if  the  overture  had 
been  made  to  them ;  so  that  if  I  had  consented,  their  [consent] 

4  [Mr.  Hardcastle  was  born  at  Bar-  5  [Writing  in  1674,  Mr.  Hardcastle 

wick-upon-Holm,    in    Yorkshire,    and  says,  "I  have  a  sincere  respect  to  the 

trained  up  under  Mr.  Jackson,  of  Bar-  members  of  that  ancient  and  honourable 

wick,  a  learned  divine.     He  was  but  a  society,  formerly  walking  with  Mr.  Hen . 

young  preacher  when  the  act  of  Uniform-  Jessey,    where,   for  some  time,    I    did 

ity   drove   him    from   the    vicarage    of  enjoy  comfortable  communion,  till  the 

Bramham.     For  several  years  he  was  providence  of  God  removed  me  thence.'" 

chaplain  to  Lady  Barwick,  of  Toulston,  That  church  was  then  under  the  care  of 

and  most  intimate  with  her  son-in-law,  Mr.  James  Fitten,  "  my  old  friend  and 

Lord   Henry  Fairfax,  who  greatly  be-  fellow  sufferer/'  and  Mr.  Henry  Forty, 

friended  him  in  his  sufferings  for  Christ.  who  afterwards  removed  to  Abingdon. 

— Palmer's  Nonconformist  Mem. ii.  557.  — Epist.  Ded.  to  Christian  Geography, 

Hardcastle's  Christian  Geography,  &c,  &c] 
p.  147.] 


112  THE    RECORDS 

must  have  been  procured,  or  else  I  could  not  have  been  dis- 
engaged. They  look  upon  me  as  so  far  engaged  to  them,  which 
is  really  so,  that  without  mutual  consent  there  can  be  no  parting. 

And  now,  my  dear  brethren,  what  advice  to  give  you  I  am  at  a 
loss,  though  I  do  as  much  desire  to  serve  you  that  way  as  you 
can  imagine  ;  your  affection  to  me  has  compelled  me  to  it.  The 
Lord  has  been  pleased  to  make  one  considerable  breach  upon  you, 
by  taking  away  your  faithful  pastor;  and  the  adversary  by  his 
cruelty  is  daily  endeavouring  more.  Satan's  great  design,  at  this 
day,  seems  to  be  against  the  communion  of  saints. 

And  as  some  said  of  the  gospel  in  Nero's  time,  that  surely 
there  must  be  some  great  excellency  in  it,  because  the  emperor 
was  so  much  against  it,  so  we  may  say  concerning  Christian 
assemblies  [now],  that  there  is  some  great  good  in  them,  because 
Satan  does  so  much  oppose  them  by  his  instruments.  For  this 
purpose  I  have  sometimes  thought  of  Heb.  x.  23,  &c.  The  way 
to  hold  fast  our  profession,  it  seems,  is  to  hold  firmer  our  com- 
munion ;  and  for  the  furthering  and  managing  of  it,  I  hope  you 
will  pardon  my  freedom,  my  love  extorts  it  from  me,  if  I  cast  in 
my  mite  by  way  of  direction. 

Let  it  then  be  public,  pure,  peaceable,  and  perpetual. 

First,  Public.  The  fury  of  the  enemy,  as  the  case  stands  with 
us,  is  no  argument  against  it,  but  for  it.  That  mode  which 
honours  God  most,  which  shows  our  love  to  the  Lord  Jesus 
most,  which  encourages  others  and  convinces  the  adversary  most, 
is  to  be  chosen.  It  is  pity  we  should  be  a  stumbling-stone 
to  others,  that  any  should  say  they  went  to  hell  because  of  us ;  if 
we  would  have  stood,  and  have  suffered  imprisonment  and  spoil 
for  Christ,  then  they  would  have  believed  that  there  was  some- 
thing in  religion  and  the  gospel,  and  they  would  have  fallen  in 
love  with  it.  It  is  a  shame  we  should  serve  our  Lord  as  if  he 
yet  were  in  the  grave,  or  no  otherwise  risen  than  by  his  disciples 
stealing  him  away ;  and  not  as  one  who  sits  at  the  right  hand  of 
God,  having  all  power  in  heaven  and  in  earth.  It  is  folly  to 
conceive  that  our  spirituals  are  secured  by  our  temporals,  and  not 
rather  our  temporals  are  preserved  by  our  spirituals;  it  is  the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  113 

meeting  which  is  the  safe-guard  of  the  house,  and  not  the  house 
of  the  meeting. 

Trusting  God  is  the  best  security  of  soul  and  body.  We  never 
walk  so  safely  as  when  we  follow  him  closely.  If  we  follow  at 
a  great  distance,  to  see  what  will  become  of  him,  the  Lord  knows 
what  in  a  little  time  may  become  of  us.  They  that  turn  aside  to 
crooked  paths,  the  Lord  will  lead  them  forth  with  the  workers  of 
iniquity,  [Psalm  cxxv.  5.] 

Secondly,  Let  it  be  pure.  That  is,  not  only  according  to  the 
rule  of  scripture,  but  in  respect  of  its  influence — making  all 
other  communion  and  your  conversations  just.  If  our  com- 
munion be  spiritual,  it  will  draw  a  line  of  savouriness,  seriousness, 
and  holiness,  throughout  our  whole  converse.  To  worship  as 
saints  and  walk  as  men,  is  not  at  all  becoming  the  gospel ;  nor  will 
it  afford  us  any  peace  of  conscience,  nor  courage  in  an  evil  day. 

Thirdly,  Let  it  be  peaceable. 

1.  Amongst  yourselves,  without  jealousies,  prejudices,  or  un- 
necessary dividings.  And  honour  the  foundation  you  stand  on — 
to  receive  saints  as  saints.  It  will  hold  when  all  others  fail.  It 
is  love  in  the  heart,  and  not  soundness  of  judgment,  which  does 
preserve  union.  One  heaven  must  hold  us  hereafter,  why  should 
not  one  heart  hold  us  now  ?  The  enemy  has  given  us  a  strong- 
intimation  for  peace.  They  have  put  us  all  under  one  condemna- 
tion. They  make  no  difference,  but  persecute  us  as  professors 
and  saints,  and  merely  under  that  notion  ;  and  how  uncomely  is  it 
for  a  saint  to  persecute  another  saint  upon  a  lesser  account.  No 
man  has  the  command  of  his  understanding.  We  cannoc  see  and 
believe  what  we  will.  It  is  the  Lord  that  giveth  light,  and  when 
it  comes  from  him  there  is  no  withstanding  of  it.  These  two 
considerations  may  be  sufficient  to  still  all  censures,  on  both 
hands,  and  make  you  walk  lovingly  together.  Take  in  that  text, 
James  iv.  1.  If  from  the  corruption  of  the  heart,  then  not  from 
the  conception  of  the  head. 

2.  Peaceable  as  to  others ;  I  mean  to  the  adversary.  You  cannot 
be  too  active  in  your  testimony,  nor  too  passive  in  your  suffer- 
ings.    By  the  activity  of  your  testimony  you  convince  the  world, 

I 


114  THE    RECORDS 

and  are  a  means  to  convert  it.  It  is  a  blessing  out  of  Zion  ;  and 
you,  likewise,  both  by  that  and  your  patience,  hasten  the  wrath  of 
God  upon  the  enemy,  for  the  fury  they  use  toward  you  ;  and  this 
is  the  vengeance  of  the  temple.  So  that  by  this  means  you  send 
forth  blessings  to  the  world,  and  vials  upon  the  persecutors ;  for 
then  God  steps  in  when  their  wrath  is  high,  and  then  is  their 
wrath  high  when  testimony  is  kept  up. 

Fourthly.  Let  it  be  perpetual,  constant,  uninterrupted.  You 
say,  you  want  ministers  to  keep  it  up,  for  church  communion.  I 
will  answer  you  in  the  words  of  holy  Mr.  Rutherford.  "  The 
manner  of  chiefly  conveying  my  love  to  your  heart,"  says  he, 
"  is  not  so  absolutely  dependent  even  upon  lively  preaching,  as  if 
there  was  no  life  of  God  but  that  which  is  tied  to  a  man's  lips. 
The  daughters  of  Jerusalem  have  done  often  that  which  the 
watchmen  could  not  do.  He  needeth  not  us ;  howbeit  the  flock 
be  obliged  to  seek  him  in  the  Shepherd's  tents.  That  is  a  blessed 
soul  that  can  leap  over  a  man,  and  look  above  a  pulpit  up  to 
Christ,"  &c.  My  dear  friends,  though  I  confess  we  should  be 
found  in  our  duty,  yet  I  fear  that  saints  and  churches  will  find 
little  settlement,  for  one  reason, — this  is  the  beginning  of  troubles. 
The  Lord  fit  us  for  worse  and  better  times  !  How  great  are  the 
sins  of  professors  that  have  procured  such  wrath !  Who  would 
have  believed  that  the  enemy  and  the  adversary  could  so  have 
entered  the  gates  of  Jerusalem,  have  made  such  breaches  and 
spoil  upon  saints  and  churches?  What  formality,  hypocrisy, 
carnality,  worldliness,  disunion,  &c,  is  there  among  professors  ! 

My  dear  brethren,  you  will  pardon  me  that  I  am  thus  free  and 
prolix  with  you,  being  a  stranger  to  you,  and,  for  anything  I 
know,  never  having  seen  the  face  of  any  one  of  you.  I  shall 
add  no  more;  but  beg  your  prayers  for  me,  a  poor  unworthy 
prisoner  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  I  can  speak  well  of  imprisonment. 
My  Master  is  nothing  behind  hand  with  me.  I  am  much 
indebted  to  him ;  and  if  ever  I  come  in  heaven,  shall  be  the 
greatest  monument  of  free  grace  there.  I  owe  him  ten  thousand 
talents.  The  Lord  be  with  your  spirits,  and  preserve  you  blame- 
less to  lii-  heavenly  kingdom. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  115 

So  prayeth,  my  dear  brethren,  your  most  affectionate,  faithful, 
though  very  unworthy  friend  and  brother  in  the  Lord  Jesus. 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 
24th  6th  month  (August),  1670. 

But  Mr.  Jessey's  congregation  was  much  troubled  at  our 
sending  for  him,  and  would  not  grant  him  to  us.  Where- 
upon there  was  much  striving  and  disputing  by  letters 
between  this  congregation  and  that  in  London,  during  all  the 
time  of  his  imprisonment.  They  laid  or  charged  us  with  sin 
for  writing  to  Mr.  Hardcastle,  to  come  to  us  to  be  our 
pastor ;  they  argued  he  was  a  member  with  them,  and  there- 
fore they  had  a  right  in  him  more  than  we,  so  that  we  ought 
not  to  endeavour  to  take  him  away  from  them.  We,  this 
congregation,  argued,  [that]  seeing  he  was  not  as  yet  set 
apart  to  office  by  them,  he  was  free  for  us,  or  for  any  other 
church  of  Christ  to  call  him  to  office ;  but  if  they  already 
had  ordained  him  to  office,  so  that  he  were  set  apart  by  them 
before,  we  then  had  no  more  to  say,  nor  should  endeavour  to 
take  him  from  them;  but  if  they  had  not,  then  Mr.  Hard- 
castle was  free,  if  that  he  had  not  consented  to  their  motion 
and  declared  it,  and  might  go  to  serve  Christ,  upon  the  call 
of  a  church,  wheresoever  he  thought  he  was  capable  to  do 
most  service ;  and  to  this  effect  we  argued.  The  church 
here  set  apart,  time  after  time,  several  days  of  prayer  in  that 
behalf;  and  the  Lord  at  last  granted  us  that  mercy,  that 
they  spared  Mr.  Hardcastle  for  one  month  to  come  down 
and  visit  us,  and  so  to  return  again  to  them. 


Letter  of  Mr.    Vavasor  Powell.     No.  2.6 

Dear  and  much  honoured  Brother, — I  crave  your  excuse 
that  I  did  not  answer  both  your  letters  sooner ;  when  I  received 

[•  This  letter  was  received  a  few  days  after  the  foregoing  of  Mr.  Hardcastle's.] 

I  2 


116  THE    RECORDS 

the  first,  I  delivered  it  to  my  brother   Hardcastle,  who  desired 
time  to  consider  it,  promising  to  return  me  an  account ;  which  I 
received  not  till  your  second  came,  which  was  opened  by  one  of 
Mr.  Smith's  family ,7  that  is  a  member  of  the  church  that  brother 
Hardcastle  belongs  to ;  and  it  seems  it  was  showed  the  church,  or 
at  least  the  contents  thereof  communicated  to  them ;  which  gave 
occasion  to  them  to  debate  it,  and,  it  seems,  to  determine  against 
his  coming,  and  to  censure  me  for  endeavouring  or  intermeddling 
anything  therein.      A  farther  account,  I    suppose,    my  brother 
Hardcastle  hath  sent  you,  under  his  own  hand,  with  which  you 
are  to  acquiesce ;  for  I  find  neither  he  nor  they  to  be  inclinable 
thereto,  and  it  will  be  very  difficult  to  draw  any  of  the  London 
ministers  hence  till  God  doth  thrust  them   out,  which  truly  I 
believe  will  be  done  ere  long  ;  for  here  they  eat  the  fat  and  sweet 
in  abundance,   and  consider  but  little  the  barrenness  and  great 
want   of  the   poor  churches  in  the  country,     I  hope  the  great 
Shepherd  will  provide  for  you,  he  having  promised  to  feed  both 
the  scattered  and  slaughtered  flock,  Ezek.  xxxiv.  14,  Zech.  xi.  7 ; 
and  he  will   save  the  flock  of  his  people,  and  they  shall  be  as 
stones  of  a  crown,  lifted  up  as  an  ensign  upon  his  land,  Zech. 
ix.  1G.     They  shall  be  as  precious  stones   put  in  the  crown  of 
Christ,  that  he  will  wear  them  for  honour  and  dignity,  and   he 
will  make  them  appear  splendid  and  glorious  as  an  ensign,  yea, 
as  an  army  with  banners.     But  before  this  I  expect  a  far  greater 
scattering  and  breaking,  a  bringing  of  us  even  to  Babylon,  Micah 
iv.  10 ;  but  first,  as  it  is  there,  into  the  field ;  that  is,  to  a  perfect 
discovery  and  view  who  are  and  who  are  not  faithful  and  full 
followers  of  the  Lamb.     We  are  much  broken  in  counsel  and 
judgment,  and  shall  be  in  communion.     Churches  that  would  not 

7  [Mr.  Hardcastle  dedicated  his  work,  to  *•  that  providence,  a  dangerous  fall 
entitled  "  Christian  Geography  and  through  a  trap-door,"  which  they  met 
Arithmetic,"  12mo,  pp.  181),  the  suh-  with  when  last  in  Bristol,  by  which  they 
stance  of  some  sermons  preached  in  were  brought  near  to  "the  gates  of 
Bristol,  in  1674,  to  his  "honoured  and  death."  This,  he  says,  u  did  give  con- 
worthy  friends,  Mr.  John  Smith,  and  his  ception  to  the  most  of  these  medita- 
beloved  consort,  Mrs.  Ann  Smith,  at  tions."  They  are  founded  on  Matt.  \'u 
Battorsca."     He  attributes  the  sermons  34,  and  Psalm  xc.  12.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  117 

be  cemented,  will  be  rent,  I  fear,  in  pieces ;  and  then,  perhaps, 
out  of  all  societies  and  opinions,  the  Lord  will  pick  out  and 
gather  up  such  stones  as  are  fit  to  be  put  in  his  new  edifice  and 
more  spiritual  temple ;  till  then  we  are  to  do  as  well  as  we  can. 
My  prayers,  since  I  can  be  no  otherwise  serviceable  to  you,  shall 
be  for  you ;  and  my  advice  is,  that  in  case  you  cannot  have  such 
a  person  in  point  of  judgment  as  you  desire,  that  you  will  choose 
another  from  among  yourselves  that  may  be  an  assistant ;  or  else 
be  sure  you  pitch  upon  one  that  is  very  humble,  meek,  sober, 
peaceable,  and  moderate,  else  better  borrow  a  while,  and  wait 
longer  in  prayer,  fasting,  and  inquiry,  till  the  Lord  provide  for 
you.  My,  and  my  wife's,  dearest  love  and  respect  to  you  and 
yours,  and  all  the  rest,  especially  brother  Ellis,  and  brother 
Teague,  and  their  wives. 

Your  most  affectionate  brother  and  servant  in  the  Lord, 

V.  P. 

29  d.,  6th  m.,  70th  y.     [August,  1670.] 


Letter  from  the  church  of  Jesus  Christ  in  London,  that  formerly 
walked  ivith  our  beloved  brother  Henry  Jessey,  noiv  deceased:  sends 
greeting  to  the  church  of  Christ  in  Bristol,  that  formerly  walked 
with  our  brother  Thomas  Euins. 

Beloved  and  dear  Brethren, — We  have  received  yours 
by  which  you  do  administer  occasion  of  sorrow  and  joy; — 
of  sorrow,  to  mourn  that  the  chariots  of  Israel  are  taken  up ;  of 
joy,  to  bless  God  that  your  candlestick  still  remains.  He  that 
hath  taken  away  your  pastor,  might  as  easily  and  as  justly  have 
dismissed  you  from  the  service  of  his  house,  and  rooted  up  your 
church  state. 

We  think  it  no  small  mercy,  when  God  calls  the  shepherd  to 
himself,  that  then  the  sheep  do  keep  peaceably  together,  and  do 
not  wander  abroad  into  bye  and  slippery  paths.  It  has  been  the 
sin  of  many  churches,  and  it  i*  a  temptation  you  may  meet  with, 
that  when   their   leaders   have  been   called   aside   to  attend  their 


118  THE    RECORDS 

Master's  service  elsewhere,  then  have  they  begun  to  make  parties, 
and  to  bring  in  errors  into  the  house  and  worship  of  God ;  like 
Israel  of  old,  that  when  Moses  was  kept  above  in  the  mount,  they 
had  no  patience  to  wait  God's  leisure,  but  they  must  have  a 
leader ;  and  let  not  this  be  thought  strange  of  by  you,  for  even 
Aaron  himself,  and  the  sons  of  Levi,  were  taken  in  the  same 
snare. 

Dear  brethren,  all  these  things  are  about  you,  and  we  beseech 
you  watch  against  them,  and  be  not  weary  in  waiting  upon  the 
Lord.  Hath  he  taken  one  up  to  himself?  It  is  but  to  prepare 
you  all  the  more  for  himself.  Whilst  he  lived  you  would  not  see 
those  things  to  be  sins,  which,  peradventure  now  you  do  bewail. 
It  may  be  you  were  wanting  in  your  esteem  of  him,  care  for  him, 
love  to  him,  and  now  God  himself  hath  taken  up  all  the  care. 
It  may  be  the  world  had  deceived  you,  and  got  too  near  your 
hearts.  It  may  be  you  were  full,  and  did  undervalue  him.  It 
may  be  you  were  needy  and  hungry,  and  did  overvalue  him,  and 
gave  that  to  him  which  you  should  have  given  to  God.  It  may 
be  some  could  receive  no  truth  but  from  his  mouth,  nor  make  one 
good  meal  for  their  souls  unless  he  dressed  it.  It  may  be  others 
did  look  upon  all  he  said  but  as  to  a  new  gospel,  and,  instead 
of  old  wholesome  truths,  were  more  apt  to  desire  new  revelations, 
but  indeed  mere  notions  ; — were  grown  weary  of  the  sincere  milk, 
and  lusted  after  quails  and  corrupted  wine.  It  may  be  you  little 
laid  to  heart  the  condition  of  others  of -your  brethren  that  are  in 
more  want  than  you  be.  Oh,  dear  friends,  beware  !  Bear  with 
us  herein ;  for  what  hath  been  your  care  for  a  little  while,  hath 
been  ours  for  many  years,  and  we  must  needs  acknowledge,  to  the 
praise  of  our  Lord  and  to  our  own  shame,  that  these  things  have 
been  too  much  our  temptations ;  and  oh  that  we  were  humbled 
for  them  at  this  day  !  Notwithstanding,  we  have  waited,  and 
God  hath  heard,  and  giveth  us  hope  that  he  will,  by  our  beloved 
brother  Hardcastle,  make  up  some  of  our  breaches.  And  would 
you  now  deprive  us  of  such  an  answer  of  prayer,  after  so  long 
waiting?  We  beseech  you,  spare  us  herein;  and  let  us  not  be 
thought  unkind  if,  when  God  sends  us  a  Matthias,  we  hold  fast 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  119 

our  interest  in  him,  and  desire  our  full  of  the  grace  of  God  con- 
ferred upon  him. 

We  suppose  you  will  yourselves  conclude  [that]  we  should  do 
very  ill  to  part  with  such  a  token  of  God's  good  pleasure,  as  we 
hope  it  will  prove.  God,  that  hath  determined  the  hounds  of 
our  habitation,  knew  best  where  to  plant  him,  and  where  to  make 
him  most  serviceable  for  his  name  and  glory ;  and  as  he  hath 
given  him  to  us,  so  he  hath  many  more  servants  in  Jesus  Christ 
for  his  churches,  and,  if  you  patiently  wait  upon  him,  we  question 
not  but  he  will  seasonably  satisfy  your  soul  with  bread.  You  do 
very  Christianly  tell  us  of  your  need,  and,  were  it  convenient,  we 
doubt  not  we  could  satisfy  you,  that  if  you  take  him  away  from 
us,  we  have  much  more  need;  and,  therefore,  cannot  think  you 
would  desire  to  repair  your  breaches  by  making  one  so  great 
upon  your  sister  church.  And  as  to  the  interest  of  Christ,  God 
himself  hath  decided  that,  and  sent  him  to  us  ;  but  nowhere  is  it, 
i.  e.  the  interest  of  Christ,  so  much  engaged  as  in  this  city ;  the 
influence  whereof  is  dispersed  the  nation  over,  and  whose  ex- 
ample, especially  in  cowardliness,  error,  fear,  and  evil,  is  too 
much  attempted  in  other  parts.  God,  by  his  providence,  works 
as  if  he  intended  to  make  this  place  his  forlorn  hope,  and  where 
should  the  gifted  and  gracious  be,  such  as  are  called,  and  chosen, 
and  faithful,  but  where  the  enemy  is  most  strong.  However,  had 
God  been  pleased  to  have  favoured  us  with  one  to  go  in  and  out 
before  us,  as  your  .letter  doth  suggest,  then  we  should  have 
rejoiced  at  the  opportunity  to  serve  you,  and  the  interest  of  Christ 
with  you. 

Many  more  things  might  be  offered;  these,  we  hope,  will  suffice, 
and  give  you  grounds  to  judge  that  we  do  sympathize  with  you, 
and  are  all  a  little  sensible,  after  long  experience,  of  the  provi- 
dence of  God  that  is  upon  you ;  and,  therefore,  do  entreat  and 
exhort,  as  members  of  the  same  head,  you  would,  above  all 
things,  watch  against  a  spirit  of  contention,  and  keep  the  unity 
and  purity  of  the  Spirit  in  the  bond  of  peace.  It  is  God's  call, 
now,  especially  to  you,  to  live  holily,  and  in  love,  and  learn  to 
bear  one  another's  infirmities.     Let  none  think  of  himself  more 


120  THE    RECORDS 

than  is  meet,  and,  thereby,  make  the  church  of  Christ  rather  a 
school  of  controversy  than  the  place  of  peace ; — but  wait  humbly 
upon  God  for  his  anointing ;  open  your  mouths  wide,  and  he  will 
fill.  And  in  the  supply  of  your  wants,  make  not  too  much  haste. 
Lay  hands  suddenly  on  no  man.  But  being  confident  that  you 
have  better  weighed  those  things,  we  commit  you  to  the  Fountain 
of  all  grace,  desiring  also  to  use  what  interest  we  have  on  your 
behalf,  as  with  God.  So  with  other  churches  here  in  London, 
and  if  any  be  represented  to  us,  we  shall  not  be  wanting  to 
recommend  them  to  you. 

Finally,  brethren,  be  ye  stedfast,  immoveable,  always  abounding 
in  the  way  and  work  of  the  Lord ;  for  you  have  still  the  same 
Father,  and  as  he  hath  now  stopped  one  voice,  so  he  can  easily 
open  another  at  his  pleasure,  and  will  do  it  in  his  due  time. 
Therefore,  we  repeat  again,  wait  paitiently  upon  the  Lord,  and  if 
God  leave  you  to  wait  longer  than  we  have  done,  yet,  think  well 
of  him  ;  keep  his  way  ;  let  love  abound ;  hold  fast  what  you 
have  received ;  and  the  God  of  truth  and  peace  be  with  you,  and 
preserve  your  souls,  spirits,  and  bodies,  blameless,  to  his  coming 
and  kingdom. 

Signed,  by  appointment  of  the  church, 

Michael  Dun  well,  Samuel  Buttall, 
William  Nuttall,  Nathaniel  Hall, 
Thomas  Chapple,  John  Smith. 

London,  23d.  8m.  1670. 


Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  2. 

My  dear  Fiuend  and  Brother, — I  received  your  last, 
which  is  the  sixth  letter  I  have  had  from  you  8  since  mine  to  you. 
They  now  lie  all  before  me.  It  is  some  trouble  to  me  that  I 
should  be  guilty  of  that  to  you  which  I  never  was  to  any ; — to 
you,  who  least  of  all  deserve  it  from  me,  and  that  is  not  to  return 

R  [These  letters  from  the  church  do  not  appeal  to  have  been  preserved.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  121 

an  answer  to  yours.  I  must  confess  [that]  I  have  been  very 
often  setting  pen  to  paper,  but  still  was  discouraged,  because  I 
could  not  write  what  would  satisfy  you.  My  silence  troubled 
me  too,  because  it  might  raise  your  expectations  of  that  which 
cannot  be  granted.  I  waited  a  good  while  for  our  church's 
letter  to  you,  which  I  did  think  would  have  put  a  period  to 
further  endeavours  in  this  affair ;  but  I  perceive,  by  your  last,  it 
has  not  had  that  effect.  It  is  much  affliction  to  me  that  I  am  not 
in  a  capacity  to  gratify  such  an  importunity.  Alas !  I  am  a 
stranger  to  you,  and  the  account  you  have  had  of  me  is  much 
better  than  I  deserve.  I  should  never  be  able  to  make  good  the 
report,  and  your  expectation  of  me.  Persons  and  things  at  a 
distance  usually  seem  much  greater  and  better  than  they  are.  It 
would  be  matter  of  grief  to  each  of  us  to  be  brought  under  such 
disappointment. 

As  for  coming  down  to  spend  three  or  four  Lord's  days  with 
you,  by  way  of  visit,  without  further  engagement,  I  would 
readily  close  with  it,  if  you  can  prevail  with  our  church  to  do  it 
as  their  act,  upon  your  request  to  them.  For  the  other,  there  is 
no  fear  that  I  shall  be  forward  to  lay  stricter  engagements  upon 
myself  than  I  have  already.  Your  many  Christian  and  good 
letters  deserve  a  more  full  and  exact  answer  than  I  can  give  at 
this  time,  being  very  full  of  business,  which  my  new  condition  of 
liberty,  among  other  things,  does  procure.  My  six  months  were 
expired  last  first  day,  and  I  was  freely  discharged  upon  the  second 
day  [Monday].  Bless  the  Lord  with  me,  and  pray  for  me,  that 
I  may  have  the  fulness  of  the  blessing  of  the  gospel  attending  my 
work,  which  is  not  small  now  ;  and  the  more,  because  of  my  long 
absence  from  the  congregation.  My  dearest  love  to  the  church 
with  you ;  to  brother  Teague,  to  yourself.  The  Lord  bless  you  ; 
and  believe  me,  I  am  very,  very  much,  your  obliged,  endeared 
friend  and  brother, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 


122  THE    RECORDS 

Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  3. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  have  had  it  in  my  thoughts  and 
desires  a  good  while  to  write  to  you,  but  still  have  been  prevented. 
I  suppose  by  this  time  you  have  heard  of  the  issue  of  that  meeting 
of  the  brethren.  Our  congregation  stood  on  their  right,  and 
therefore  the  business  of  usefulness  came  not  under  debate,  which 
I  much  desired.  They  left  the  business  as  they  found  it,  and  I 
presume  shortly  you  will  have  a  letter  from  the  congregation  that 
will  be  absolutely  negative.  I  must  confess  to  you,  ingenuously, 
that  I  have  spoken  to  several  of  the  brethren  singly,  that  I  went 
to  the  meeting  with  a  resolution  to  submit  to  what  should  be 
determined  by  them,  and  waved  all  selfish  considerations,  looking 
at  nothing  but  the  service  of  Christ ;  and  when  I  saw  that 
nothing  was  done,  I  desired  it  might  be  moved  that  I  might  be 
sent  down  by  the  brethren,  the  congregation  consenting,  to  Bristol 
for  a  month,  to  visit  you — to  signify  my  gratefulness  to  you,  for 
that  love  you  have  manifested  to  me  a  stranger,  and  to  under- 
stand your  state,  and  what  there  might  seem  to  be  in  your 
long  and  loud  call — what  opportunity  of  service,  and  what  ex- 
pedient might  be  found  out  to  promote  that  blessed  principle 
of  union  among  the  saints,  as  saints,  though  of  different  persua- 
sions ;  to  understand  where  the  hinge  lay  in  that  late  passage  of 
infant  baptism,  &c.9  I  must  profess,  it  is  far  from  me  to  seem  to 
persuade  any  one  to  my  particular  persuasion  ;  but  if  ever  I  have 
entertained  an  opinion,  I  must  be  very  well  satisfied  to  relin- 
quish it,  and  I  must  reckon  myself  a  little  forward  in  my  first 
entertaining  it.  This  notion  of  mine,  of  coming  to  Bristol,  took 
with  some,  but  others  made  this  objection  against  it,  that  since  the 

9  [The  question  of  admitting  unbap-  practice.      This  was  a  reply  to  John 

tized  persons  to  the  Lord's  table  was  Bunyan,  who,  in  the  year  1672,  against 

much  agitated   at  this  time  among  the  some  reflections  by  Mr.  Kifrin,  on  his 

churches.    Mr.  Kitfin,  to  whom  reference  .Confession    of    Faith,   endeavoured    to 

is  presently  made,  as  if  in  some  way  prove  it  lawful  "  to  communicate  with 

connected  with  the  agitation  of  it   in  saints,   as  saints."      Bunyan's  Works, 

Bristol,   published,    in    1681,  a   Sober  p.  1203,  Mason's  edit     Orme's  Life  of 

Discourse  of  Right  to  Church  Commu-  Kifrin,  p.  128.] 
IUOI1,  to  show  the  unlawfulness  of  the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  123 

congregation  could  not  quit  their  right  over  me  as  their  member, 
it  could  be  no  satisfaction  to  you  to  have  me  only  for  a  month ; 
that  it  might  probably,  instead  of  relieving  you,  leave  you  under 
greater  disappointment  j  that  it  might  be  a  temptation  to  me,  &c. ; 
so  that  motion  ceased. 

Mr.  Kiffin  has  been  very  ill  and  out  of  town,  and  probably  has 
not  writ  to  you.1 

I  have  plainly  opened  my  heart  to  you.  I  am  to  go  into 
Leicestershire  for  a  month,  to  visit  some  that  belong  to  the  con- 
gregation ;  I  purpose,  God  willing,  to  set  forward  on  the  twenty- 
first  of  this  month.  I  have  only  this  to  add,  that  if  God  had  set 
the  door  open  for  my  coming  to  you,  I  do  assure  you,  that  self- 
considerations  here  of  friends,  acquaintance,  interest,  settlement, 
relations,  &c,  should  not  at  all  have  swayed  with  me,  to  have 
shut  up  my  way.  Such  is  that  affection  I  owe  you,  and  that 
deservedly,  for  yours  to  me.  Take  this  advice  further :  — let  the 
brethren  that  are  for  infant  baptism  clearly  see  by  your  carriage 
that  you  prefer  mutual  love  before  the  imposing  your  persuasion ; 
by  this  means  both  affection  and  truth  will  be  promoted  most 
effectually.  I  would  choose  the  way  to  a  man's  understanding 
through  his  heart,  especially  seeing  it  is  the  way  which  the 
gospel  so  much  insists  on ;  I  have  always  found  it  true,  that 
union  in  hearts  had  more  considerable  effect  than  union  in  heads. 
I  hope  you  will  take  these  small  hints  well  from  me,  seeing  they 
come  from  pure  love  and  judgment,  without  respect  to  any 
jealousy  or  information  you  may  think  I  might  have  had. 

My  dear  brother,  I  have  exceeded  my  first  intendment,  but  my 
affection  draws  me  on.  I  could  be  very  glad  of  the  happiness  to 
discourse  a  few  hours  with  you,  but  I  must  break  off,  since  Pro- 
vidence seems  to  have  blocked  up  our  way  of  meeting ;  we  must 

1  [Mr.  Kiffin's  name  does  not  appear  London  during  the  whole  of  this  period, 

in  the  records  of  the  Devonshire  Square  as     will     subsequently    appear.       Mr. 

church,  as  present  at  the  church  meet-  Daniel  Dyke  was  co-pastor   with  him, 

ings,  between  the  2nd  of  April,   1670,  and   the   business  of   the   church   was 

and  the  3rd  of  March,  1672,  probably  presided  over  by  him  in  the  interval, 

for  the  reason  mentioned  in   the  text.  Records,  MS.  b.] 
He    was    not,    however,    absent     from 


124  THE    RECORDS 

submit  all  to  God.  I  am  afraid  that  the  Lord  is  very  shortly 
about  to  shake  all  foundations,  and  to  put  it  to  the  test  whether 
we  will  be  for  Christ  or  antichrist ;  whether  we  have  bottomed 
our  faith  upon  tradition,  custom,  example,  &c,  or  upon  the  word 
of  God,  realized  and  imprinted  upon  our  hearts  through  the 
Spirit.  My  dear  love  to  the  congregation,  jointly  and  severally, 
also  to  brother  Teague. 

I  am  your  most  cordial,  obliged  brother, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 
lm.  lOd.  1670—1. 


Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  4. 
To  Mr.  Terrill. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  hope  you  have  mine  which  I  writ  to 
you  last.  Since  that  I  have  had  yours,  which  I  caused  to  be  read 
in  our  congregation,  and  moved  that  I  might  have  the  liberty  to 
visit  you,  which  was  granted  as  being  rational ;  and,  accordingly, 
they,  having  prepared  a  letter  to  send  to  you,  did  add  a  postscript, 
signifying  their  concession  in  this  kind.  Now,  my  dear  brother, 
this  may  advertise  you  that  I  am  for  Derby  next  second  day,  and 
do  hope,  if  God  will,  to  be  with  you  within  a  month  after  I  set 
forward  from  London.  Let  me  have  your  fervent  prayers  that  I 
may  come  with  a  gospel  blessing,  that  the  providence  of  God  may 
go  before  me,  I  being  to  cross  the  country  from  Derby  to  Bristol, 
and  a  perfect  stranger  to  the  ways ;  but,  if  I  may  be  found  in  the 
Lord's  way,  I  hope  difficulties  will  appear  but  little. 

This  is  all  at  present,  being  not  well,  and  under  care. 

I  am  your  sincere  friend  and  brother,  in  the  best  bonds, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 
lm.  14d.  1670—1. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  125 

Letter  from  the  Church  in  London,  directed  to  Mr.  E.  Terr  ill. 

Beloved  Brethren, — We  would  gladly  manifest  our  love  to 
you,  or  any  church  of  Christ,  so  far  as  it  stands  with  gospel  rule, 
and  the  honour  and  interest  of  Christ.  But  if  you  judge  that 
brother  Hardcastle,  not  being  called  to  office  amongst  us,  is  as 
free  for  another  church  to  elect  as  for  us,  we  hope  you  will 
excuse  us  if  we  humbly  conceive  the  contrary,  and  if  you  so 
Judge,  you  need  not  ask  our  leave  ;  however,  without  showing  us 
a  gospel  rule,  we  shall  not  suffer  ourselves  to  be  dismembered. 
Nor  do  we  find  that  any  prudential  judges  are  of  your  mind, 
unless  it  had  been  supposed  we  had  given  up  our  right,  which  we 
did  not ;  but  said,  if  your  call  for  him,  at  this  time,  in  the  state 
he  stands  with  us,  be  according  to  the  truth  of  the  gospel,  and 
that  it  is  more  for  the  honour  and  interest  of  Christ  to  be  with 
you  than  with  us,  we  would  submit  that,  as  a  question,  to  judicial 
[judicious]  persons  to  judge  of,  and  so  we  should  have  done  had 
he  been  an  officer  among  us. 

We,  therefore,  beseech  you,  not  to  judge  us  insensible  of  your 
wants,  or  that  we  do  not  earnestly  desire  that  you  may  be  sup- 
plied ;  but  as  to  our  own  need,  we,  next  unto  Christ,  should  be 
most  sensible,  if  not  as  competent  judges  thereof  as  you.  But  we 
unfeignedly  desire  the  Lord  of  the  harvest  may  thrust  out  a 
faithful  labourer  for  you,  and  supply  all  your  wants  by  riches 
of  grace  in  Christ,  and  subscribe  ourselves,  your  brethren,  that 
desire  your  good  as  our  own.  Signed,  by  the  appointment  of  the 
congregation,  this  14th  of  the  first  month  (March),  1670 — 1, 

Thomas  Dawson.  Nathaniel  Hall. 

Thomas  Ch apple. 

P.S.  Notwithstanding  you  have  our  sense,  yet  we  are  willing 
our  brother  Hardcastle  should  visit  you,  and  know  your  state, 
and  acquaint  you  with  ours,  that  we  may  maintain  brotherly 
love,  and  a  right  understanding  between  us. 


126  THE    RECORDS 

Letter  of  Mr.  Robert  Browne}     No.  1 . 

To  my  much   esteemed   brother,    Mr.    Terrill,    at  his  house    in 
Bristol.     To  be  left  with  Mr.  Mitchell,  near  the  Post  Office. 

Worcester,  15d.  lm.  1670—1. 

Dear  Brother, — Your  cordial  love  and  extraordinary  kind- 
ness to  me  when  with  you,  command  a  thankful  acknowledgment 
from  me,  and  will  not  be  forgotten  in  the  day  of  the  Lord ;  my 
prayers  to  whom,  on  your  behalf,  together  with  the  remnant  of 
the  Lamb's  followers  with  you  (to  whom  pray  give  my  Christian 
love  and  respects,  as  occasion  oners)  are,  that  you  may  stand 
complete  in  the  whole  will  of  God  ;  and,  being  filled  with  the 
Spirit,  may  abound  more  and  more,  in  all  holiness  and  knowledge, 
to  the  praise  of  his  exceeding  superabounding  grace  in  Christ 
Jesus.  Oh,  how  little  is  our  stature,  how  slow  our  progress  in 
divine  things !  What  need  have  we  to  be  daily  wailing,  groaning 
for  the  fresh  springs,  the  renewed  supplies  of  the  Spirit;  that 
forgetting  what  is  behind,  we  may  walk  with  divine  vigour  and 
alacrity,  be  pressing  towards  the  mark,  and  grow  up  daily  more 
into  the  fulness  of  the  stature  of  Christ  Jesus. 

Great  and  inconceivably  glorious  is  the  love  of  the  Father,  Son, 
and  Spirit,  to  worthless  mortals,  and  great  are  its  demands  and 
requirements.  Oh  that  we  were  more  studying  them,  and 
answering  them  !  Can  we  love  like  him  ?  Can  we  live  up  to 
them?  However,  let  us  take  heed  that  we  decline  not  in  our 
affections  to  him,  nor  give  him  cause  to  complain  of  us,  that  we 
have  forsaken  our  first  love,  and  the  more  he  loves  the  less  he  is 
beloved.  I  must  say  it  while  I  live,  to  the  praise  of  matchless 
grace — and  I  believe,  and  am  sure  that  you,  and  others  with  you, 
do  harmonize  with  me  in  the  experience — that  the  time   I  spent 

2  [The  following  letters  would  seem  in  Worcestershire.      He  wrote  a  work 

to  show  that  Mr.  Terrill,  not  over  san-  of  some  learning,  entitled  "  Jerubhaal," 

guine  as   to  obtaining  Mr.   Hardcastle,  against    hearing   the    parish    ministers, 

directed  his  attention  to  Mr.  R.  Browne,  and  was  reputed  by  Dr.  Walker  a  fifth 

who   had   been    supplying  the  church.  monarchist.     Palmer's   Noncon.   Mem. 

Mr.  Browne  was  ejected   from  a  living  ii.  648.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST,  127 

with  you  was  a  time  of  much  sweetness  and  power  unto  my  soul. 
The  very  remembrance  of  loves  then  displayed  is  still  dulce  and 
comfortable,  savoury  and  refreshing.  Oh  help  with  your  groans, 
that  the  seed  then  sown,  by  the  most  unworthy  of  the  Lord's 
seedsmen,  may  thrive  and  prosper  to  the  good  of  many.  It 
would  be  more  to  me  than  all  the  treasure  of  Bristol,  or  the  whole 
world,  if  I  could  hear  but  of  one  soul  truly  brought  to  the  foot 
of  Jesus,  and  indeed  translated  from  darkness  to  light,  and  the 
power  of  Satan  unto  God,  by  the  word  of  the  gospel  of  the  grace 
of  God  then  dispensed. 

I  should  be  glad  to  receive  a  few  lines  from  you,  to  understand 
of  your  welfare,  and  would  be  always  bearing  you  and  yours 
upon  my  heart,  with  all  the  children  of  our  Father,  when  nearest 
the  throne  of  grace ;  that  the  best  of  blessings  may  be  multiplied 
upon  you,  and  that  you  may  do  worthily  for  the  Lord  in  your 
day,  and  at  last,  as  victors,  sit  down  with  Christ  upon  his  throne, 
and  be  made  to  inherit  all  things  in  the  kingdom  of  your  Father, 
where  I  should  be  glad  to  meet  you  (which  I  long  for)  with  all 
the  saints.  My  very  dear  love  to  yourself,  your  good  wife,  and 
mother.  I  am  your  unworthy  brother,  in  the  kingdom  and 
patience  of  Jesus, 

Robert  Browne. 

My  cordial  love  and  respects  to  Mr.  Teague  and  his  wife,  with 
thanks  for  their  love.  Tell  him  I  am  his  debtor  for  a  letter.  I 
am  forced  to  send  now  bv  the  wav  of  London. 


Letter  of  Mr.  Browne.     No.  2. 

To  my  respected  friend,  Mr.  Terrill,  at  his  house  in  Bristol.     To 
be  left  with  Mr.  Teague,  at  the  Dolphin,  in  Bristol. 

London,  13d.  2m.  (April)  1671. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  hope  you  have  received  both  mine, 
that  one  sent  by  the  way  of  London,  the  other  by  the  Trow  from 
Worcester.     I  have,  after  some  stav  there,  visited   the  saints  in 


128  THE    RECORDS 

the  country,  where  I  iind  a  good  spirit,  and  endeared  affections  to 
our  best  Beloved.  The  good  Lord  heighten  them !  I  am  now 
at  London,  where  I  shall  reside,  if  the  Lord  will,  at  least  a  fort- 
night, and  shall  be  glad  to  receive  now  and  then  a  few  lines  from 
you  to  know  your  affairs.  That  savour  of  the  goodness  of  the 
Lord  I  experimented  amongst  you  hath  endeared  my  heart  to 
you,  and  makes  me  to  long  after  you.  Oh  that  you  might 
greatly  flourish,  and  experience  a  choice  spring  upon  your  spirits, 
that  the  name  of  your  assemblies  may  be  the  Lord's  delight ! 

You  are,  I  know,  waiting  for  His  presence,  and  that  will  cause 
the  spices  of  the  garden  to  flow  forth.  All  the  difficulty  is,  when 
we  have  the  Lord,  to  keep  him  with  us  ;  neglect  of,  or  want  of 
skill  in  which,  many  times  causeth  us  to  cry  out,  Our  leanness, 
our  leanness.  Oh  that  we  were  more  wise !  Why  should  any 
thing  divert  us  so  far  as  to  lead  us  to  cast  off  our  precious  Lord  ? 
one  so  good,  so  sweet,  so  filling,  so  satisfying,  that  there  is  none 
like  him — I  write  to  one  who  I  am  confident  knows  these  things 
— nor  any  thing  on  this  side  heaven  that  is  desirable  or  lovely 
as  he.  Oh  that  we  could  watch  always,  and  sit  down  under  his 
shadow  !  Distance  from  him  is  always  dangerous,  exposing  the 
soul  to  many  snares  and  temptations,  but  we  never  had  more  need 
than  now  to  keep  near  him,  for,  alas,  if  he  be  not  at  hand,  our 
defender,  where  shall  we  find  rest  in  the  dreadful  convulsions  and 
shakings  that  are  coming  upon  the  world  ? 

Here  are,  amongst  many,  fears  of  the  French  ;  it  is  said  armies 
are  still  drawing  down  to  Dunkirk  ;  they  have  a  great  fleet.  They 
have  sent  to  the  king,  that  in  case  of  storm  they  may  have  liberty 
to  put  in  at  our  harbours,  which  is  granted  them.3 

When  you  write  to  me,  direct  yours  to  me  at   Mr.  Timothy 

3  [Contrary  to  the  obligations  imposed  France.      England    was   to   attack    by 

by  the  "  triple  alliance,"  king  Charles  sea,   while  the  king  of  France   should 

and  his  ministry  perfidiously  resolved  to  invade  them    by   land    with    a  mighty 

unite  with  France  in  a  war  upon  the  army."     Burnet's  Own  Times,  i.  52.0, 

Dutch,  and  the  dismemberment  of  their  Oxf.  ed.    1823.     At  the  same  time  a 

territory.     "  It  was  agreed  that  the  king  cruel  persecution  of  the  nonconformists 

should   have   350,000/.    a   year  during  was  carried  on.] 
the    war,   together    with    a   fleet    from 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  129 

Clare's,  a  tobacconist,  at  the  sign  of  the  Tobacco  Roll,  in  Bartho- 
lomew Close,  London.  My  cordial  love  to  self,  wife,  mother: 
all  friends,  as  if  named. 

In  haste,  in  our  dear  Lord, 

Robert  Browne. 


Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  5. 

For  Mr.  Edward  Terrill,  writing-master,  in  Bristol. 

18d.  2m.  (April)  1671. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  am  now  returned  to  London,  upon  a 
special  occasion,  contrary  to  my  first  purpose  and  resolution, 
which  was  to  cross  the  country  (from  Derby)  to  Bristol.  Our 
congregation  declare  much  readiness  for  my  coming  down  to 
Bristol  for  a  little  season,  to  understand  your  affairs,  and  whether 
things  be  really  so,  as  they  are  represented,  that  there  is  that 
necessity  and  opportunity  of  service.  They  do  declare  that  they 
will  deny  themselves  in  anything  for  the  honour  of  God,  and 
good  of  souls  ;  but  before  they  will  quit  their  interest  and  title, 
and  a  known  usefulness,  they  will  be  very  well  informed,  by  good 
reason,  of  a  greater  and  more  prevailing  interest  for  Christ. 

My  dear  brother,  I  was  in  hopes  to  have  had  a  line  from  you 
in  this  time.  I  purpose,  God  willing,  to  set  forward  for  Bristol 
on  the  first  of  May :  something  has  fallen  out  that  I  cannot  come 
sooner.  Pray  let  me  have  a  line  from  you,  or  else  I  shall  be  in 
suspense  whether  this  or  the  former  have  reached  you,  or  whether 
you  may  not  be  supplied,  so  that  my  coming  may  be  prevented. 
The  Lord  keep  you.  My  dear  love  to  all  friends;  and  I  am 
ever  your  truly  affectionate  friend  and  brother,  in  the  best  bonds, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 

P.  S.  I  hope  you  had  the  letter  of  the  church,  in  which  they 
made  concession  of  a  month. 


130  THE    RECORDS 

Letter  of  Mr.  Browne."     No.  3. 

These  for  my  respected  friend  Mr.  Terrill,   at  his  house  in 
Bristol.     Leave  this  with  Mr.  Teague,  at  his  house  in  Bristol. 

London. 

Much  esteemed  Brother, — Yours,  per  post,  I  yesterday 
received ;  but  that  you  mention,  sent  by  your  trow  to  Worcester, 
I  presume  arrived  since  my  departure  thence  ;  I  have  not  had  the 
least  account  of  it.  I  am  here  in  a  city  of  stirs  and  noises,  and 
whether  the  Lord  may  not  cast  my  lot  here  I  cannot  yet  say. 
There  is  a  good  people  at  Wapping,  about  a  mile  off,5  of  the  same 
complexion  and  constitution,  as  to  their  church  state,  with  you, 
that  by  letter  earnestly  importuned  my  coming  to  them;  which, 
though  sent  into  the  country,  I  received  not  till  I  came  here,  and 
some  of  them  have  since  been  with  me  about  it  here.6  I  want 
prayers  and  counsel  from  God.  Oh,  that  I  knew  more  perfectly 
my  work,  and  where  I  may  most  serve  him  ! 

Alas,  my  brother,  I  live  too  much  below,  too  little  in  the 
mount  with  my  dear  Lord ;  and  that  is  the  reason  I  am  some- 
times so  bewildered.  But  my  heart,  through  rich  grace,  which  I 
wonder  at,  and  must  do  for  eternity,  is  towards  the  Lord,  and  I 
would  gladly  ascend  to  the  highest  pitch  of  believing  and 
spirituality,  that  I  might  always  live  with  my  lovely  Jesus,  in  the 
mount  of  spices,  and  [in]  that  intimate  communion  with  him  that 
fills  [the  soul]  with  ravishment.     Oh,  how  precious  is  his  love — 

4  [This  letter  is  without  date.]  they    might   be    dismissed    from    that 

6  [From  Bartholomew  Close,   where  communion,  and  allowed  to  form  a  dis- 

Mr.  Browne  was  staying.]  tinct  congregation,  in  such  order  as  was 

«  [This  church  met  in  Broad  Street,  most  agreeable  to  their  own  sentiments." 

Old    Gravel  Lane.      The   people   who  This   was   amicably  consented   to,  and 

established  it  had  been  members  of  the  the  new  church  chose  Mr.  John  Spils- 

psedobaptist    church,   under  Mr.  John  bury  for  their   pastor.     He  appears  to 

Lathorp,  but   seceded  in    1633.     "In  have  deceased  soon  after  the  restoration, 

that    society,    several   persons,    finding  Mr.  John  Norcott  succeeded  him,  but 

that  the  church  kept  not  its  first  prin-  not  until  after  the  date  of  these  letters 

ciples  of  separation,  and  being  also  con-  of  Mr.  Browne,   by    which  it  appears 

vinced    that   baptism    was    not    to   be  that  at  that  time  the  church  was  desti- 

administered  to  infants,  but  to  such  as  tute  of  a  pastor.     See  Ivimey's  Hist,  of 

professed  faith  in  Christ,    desired  that  Eng.  Baptists,  iii.  293.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  131 

one  drop  of  it !  Oh,  how  good  to  dwell  under  the  shadow  of 
this  well-beloved !  Why  should  we  turn  our  eyes  off  so  lovely, 
so  altogether  desirable  an  object  as  he,  to  the  poor,  perishing, 
dirty  things  of  this  cold  world,  and  [to]  the  dying  pleasures  and 
contentments  thereof;  to  go  from  the  fountain  to  the  cistern, 
where,  at  the  best,  the  water  is  dead,  mixed,  muddy,  and  some- 
times none  at  all  ?  what  folly,  madness  is  it. 

O  Lord,  let  my  soul  live  in  thee,  for  thou  art  my  rest !  A 
few  acts  of  faith  bring  him  near  us,  and  give  us  such  a  prospect 
of  his  glory  that  empties  the  whole  world,  and  fills  with  augmented 
desires  after  him,  and  contentment  with  him,  though  stripped  of 
all  beside.  '  O  Lord,  increase  our  faith/  is  the  believer's  groan  ; 
and  never  more  need  than  now,  when  such  dismal  darkness  is 
coming  upon  the  world. 

For  news  I  refer  you  to  my  good  friend  Mr.  Richardson,  to 
whom  I  impart  what  I  have.  My  heart  is  enlarged  towards  you, 
but  my  occasions  call  me  off.  The  Lord  fill  you  with  joy  and 
peace  in  believing.  The  opening  of  the  seal?  I  must,  for  good 
reasons,  as  you  will  say,  reserve  till  I  see  you.  My  cordial  love 
and  respects  to  Captain  Ellis,  brother  Teague,  all  friends  as  if 
particularly  named,  your  wife,  and  mother.     In  haste. 

Yours  sincerely, 

Robert  Browne. 

Anno  1671. 

So  that  in  the  third  month,  anno  1671,  he  [Mr.  Hard- 
castle]  came  down  to  us,  and  abode  a  month,  preaching  to  the 
congregation  ;  the  church  greatly  liking  his  gift. 


Letter  of  Mr.  Browne.     No.  4.8 

These  for  my  valued  friend  Mr.  Terrill,  at  his  house,  Bristol. 
Leave  this  with  Mr.  Teague,  at  the  Dolphin,  in  Bristol. 

My   endeared   Brother, — Yours,   with  the   church's,    I   re- 

7  [Apparently   some   topic  of    pro-  8  [Just  before  Mr.  Hardcastle  came, 

phecy,  Rev.  vi.]  Mr.    Terrill     and    the    church     were 

K  2 


132  THE    RECORDS 

ceived  ;  to  which  I  had  before  this  given  you  a  return,  had  not  my 
leaving  the  city  for  a  few  days  prevented  me.  I  am  to-morrow 
also  for  the  country,  till  seventh  day  next,  when  I  return  hither 
again,  if  the  Lord  please ;  so  that  I  have  not  time  to  give  that 
particular  answer  as  I  could  wish  to  the  church.  With  you,  I 
confess  that  which  you  urge  is  momentous  ;  and  as  I  cannot 
but  account  it  a  marvel  of  grace  that  the  Lord  should  so  far 
favour  me,  one  so  altogether  worthless,  as  to  give  me  the  least 
room  in  the  hearts  of  his  children,  and  to  own  me  to  do  any 
service  anywhere  for  him,  so  I  assure  you  it  shall  not  be  passed 
over  without  deep  consideration.  The  people  of  Wapping  are 
very  earnest  and  pressing  with  me  to  continue  here ;  and,  indeed, 
there  is  a  great  door  of  service,  and  they  are  unanimous  in  their 
desire. 

This  I  can  say,  through  rich  love,  that  it  is  nothing  of  this 
world  that  will,  I  hope,  have  the  least  influence  upon  me;  but 
where  God  saith  I  may  most  serve  him,  there  would  I  be  found. 
I  am  in  a  strait.  My  affections  are  much  towards  you,  having 
tasted  and  felt  so  much  of  the  goodness  and  power  of  God  with 
you.  My  request  to  you  is,  that  you  solemnly  seek  the  Lord  on 
my  behalf,  that  I  may  be  directed  the  right  way.  My  soul  cries, 
If  thy  presence  go  not  with  me,  lead  me  not  from  hence.  If  I 
come  to  you  upon  the  wing  of  faith  and  prayer,  it  will  be  a 
blessing  to  us  all.  I  intend  shortly  to  write  to  the  church,  whom 
I  salute  in  the  Lord,  more  at  large.  I  am  now  in  great  haste. 
I  commend  you  to  the  Lord,  in  whom  I  am 

Your  most  cordial  brother, 

Robert  Browne. 

I  suppose  I  may  see  you  about  a  fortnight  hence,  if  the  Lord 
say  so  too. 

London,  3rd  day,  3rd  month  [May],  1671. 

arranging   with   Mr.  Browne   to   come  its  date  of  the  3rd  of  May,  just  about 

and  supply  them,   with  a  view  to  his  the  time,  or   the  same  day,  that  Mr. 

settlement,  should  Mr.  Hardcastlc  re-  Hardcastle  came  down.] 
fuse,  as  the  following  letter  shows  by 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  133 

Letter  of  Mr.  Browne.9     No.  5. 

These  for  my  respected  friend  Mr.  Terrill,  at  his  house  in 
Bristol. 

London,  23rd  day,  3rd  month  [May],  1671. 
Dear  Brother, — I  received  yours,  and  am  glad  to  hear  of 
your  welfare.  I  should  have  written  before,  but  that  I  proposed 
to  see  you,  and  speak  with  you  face  to  face ;  which  purpose,  by 
the  will  of  the  Lord,  we  begin  to  prosecute  next  fifth  day,  and 
shall,  if  the  Lord  favour  us,  be  with  you  on  seventh  day  (Saturday 
so  called)  next.  Pray  for  me  that  I  may  have  a  prosperous 
journey  to  you.  I  know  not  how  things  stand  with  you ;  I  leave 
myself  to  your,  and  Mr.  Richardson's  disposal  (with  whom 
advise),  for  next  Lord's  day.  I  have  made  very  diligent  search 
for  the  Greek  Testament  you  mention,  but  it  is  not  to  be  had. 
As  to  news  there  is  none.  My  very  dear  love  and  respects  to 
yourself,  wife,  mother:  all  friends  as  if  named.  Excuse  my 
haste.     I  am  yours  to  serve  you  in  the  great  concern, 

Robert  Browne. 

Just  as  he  [Mr.  Hardcastle]  was  going  away,  upon  the  29th 
day  of  the  third  month  [May],  anno  1671,  the  elders,  with 
the  brethren,  appointed  a  day  of  prayer,  and  desired  Mr. 
Hardcastle  to  be  with  the  church  that  day,  some  part  of  it. 

The  congregation  being  on  said  day  gathered  together, 
wholly,  except  those  out  of  town,  it  was  proposed  to  them  by 
the  elders,  whether  the  brethren  for  the  most  part  did  think 
him  fit  to  be  their  pastor,  and  could  sit  down  under  his 
ministry.  Now,  whether  the  rest,  with  the  whole  church, 
were  so  minded;  to  which  all  the  brethren  and  sisters 
declared  their  consentaneous  agreement,  and  their  desires  to 
elect  and  call  him,  the  said  Mr.  Thomas  Hardcastle,  to  be 
their  minister  and  pastor.  After  some  time  spent  in  dis- 
course about  it,  and  finding  no  opposition,  then,  to  know  the 

9  [In  reply  to  a  letter  inviting  him  to  supply  after  Mr.  Hardcastle's  return.] 


134  THE    RECORDS 

mind  of  every  individual  member,  by  an  elder  it  was  desired 
that  every  member  would  make  use  of  their  Christian 
liberty,  that  if  any  one  did  dissent  from  the  election,  that 
they  should  speak,  every  brother  for  himself:  every  sister 
might  speak  to  some  brother  to  declare  for  her,  or  them, 
their  dislike  and  their  reasons.  But  if  none  did  so  manifest 
their  dissent,  but  were  all  agreed,  we  should  know  it  by  their 
silence ;  which  for  a  good  space  they  were,  and  so  we  con- 
cluded that.  Then  our  brother  Terrill  drew  a  writing  for  all 
the  members  to  sign  to,  as  their  call,  to  be  delivered  to  Mr. 
Hardcastle  ;  which  is  in  the  following  page. 

Memorandum.  Brother  Cornish,  brother  Henry  Ford, 
and  brother  Francis  Whitehead,  and  sister  Martha  Griffen, 
before  spoken  with,  were  all  joined  the  21st  day  of  this  third 
month,  1671. 

A  copy  of  this  church's  call  to  Mr.  Thomas  Hardcastle. 

We,  whose  names  are  underwritten,  together  with  the  rest 
of  that  church  of  Christ  of  which  Mr.  Thomas  Ewins,  lately 
deceased,  was  formerly  pastor,  being  assembled  together,  after 
seeking  the  Lord  by  prayer,  have  unanimously  elected  and 
chosen  you,  our  honoured  and  dearly  beloved  brother  in  the  Lord, 
Mr.  Thomas  Hardcastle,  to  be  our  minister  and  pastor,  under  our 
great  Shepherd,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  according  to  his  holy 
command  in  sacred  scripture  ;  to  administer  his  word  and  gospel 
ordinances  unto  us,  to  the  end  we  may  yield  all  sincere  obedience 
to  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  who  died  at  Jerusalem, 
and  hath  redeemed  us  to  God  by  his  blood,  that  in  love  we  might 
serve  him,  without  fear,  in  holiness  and  righteousness  all  the  days 
of  our  life.  And  therefore  we,  through  infinite  and  rich  grace, 
having  obtained  that  wonderful  mercy  to  be  a  church  of  Christ, 
and  by  him  alone  preserved  unto  this  day,  and  conscious  of  our 
duty  recorded  in  2  Cor.  vi.  16—18,  Matt,  xviii.  20;  xxviii. 
18,  19;    Acts  ii.  41,  42;  with  Eph.  iv.  3— 16;    1  Cor.  xii.  28 ; 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST. 


135 


Titus  i.  5 ;  with  Acts  xiv.  23 ;  vi.  5  ;  and  xiii.  2,  3 — now,  in 
pursuance  of  this  our  duty  and  privilege,  we  do  hereby  testify  and 
declare  our  joint  and  solemn  call  to  you,  our  dearly  beloved 
brother,  Mr.  Thomas  Hardcastle  aforesaid,  to  be  our  pastor. 

Given  under  our  hands  the  29th  of  the  third  month,   anno 
Domini  1671. 


Thomas  Ellis,  elder. 
Edward  Terrill,  elder. 
Robert  Simpson,  deacon. 
William  Dickason,  deacon. 
Richard  Teather. 
Jeremy  Courtny. 
Henry  Pierce. 
William  Evans. 
Henry  Ford. 
Robert  Cornish. 
John  Fry. 
Richard  Dennis. 
Daniell  Gwilliam. 
Robert  Jones. 
Dorothy  Hazzard. 
Joan  Ewins. 
Ann  Ellis,  sen. 
Martha  Griffen. 
Mary  Baldwin. 
Elizabeth  Tanner. 
Sarah  Willett. 
Ann  Hughes. 
Margaret  Webb. 
Sybble  Marsh. 
Jane  Fry. 
Martha  Tilly. 
Mary  Jennings. 
Mary  Bird. 
Ann  Jones,  jun. 


Richard  White,  elder. 
Thomas  Rieves,  deacon. 
Richard  King. 
Edward  Ekley. 
Robert  Bodenham. 
Nathaniel  Evans. 
John  Morgan. 
George  Robinson. 
Francis  Whitehead. 
John  James. 
Thomas  Jenings. 
Thomas  Jones. 
Elizabeth  Stephens. 
Sarah  Evans. 
Abigail  Robinson. 
Jane  Robinson. 
Margaret  Shaell. 
Martha  Spurgin. 
Mabell  Turtle. 
Joan  Walton. 
Grace  Price. 
Elizabeth  Dayos. 
Joan  Evans. 
Katherine  Evans. 
Joan  Rawlins. 
Deborah  Loverine. 
Silvester  Saunders. 
Judith  Morgan. 
Joan  Mundav. 


136 


THE    RECORDS 


Margaret  Williams. 
Margaret  Sterry. 
Prudence  Jarvis. 
Elizabeth  Gough. 
Ann  Sterne. 
Elizabeth  Lux. 
Susanna  Vanatturne. 
Susanna  Baily. 
Mary  James. 
Joan  White. 
Hannah  Symmons. 
Cicilo  Whittington. 
Sarah  Pop  well. 
Ann  Jones,  sen. 
Bridgett  Hill,  sen. 
Bridgett  Hill,  jun. 
Elizabeth  Betterton. 
Susanna  Davis. 
Alice  Cornish. 
Joan  Dickason. 


Margery  Symons. 
Elizabeth  Watkins. 
Elizabeth  Williams. 
Dorothy  Smith. 
Susanna  Sandy. 
Ann  Ellis,  jun. 
Mary  West,  the  deaconess. 
Mary  Shuter. 
Elinor  Brookes. 
Rose  Teage. 
Judith  Maynard. 
Elizabeth  Browne. 
Sarah  Young. 
Elizabeth  Shute. 
Ann  Ekly. 

Elizabeth  Burd,  Key. 
Mary  Webb. 
Elizabeth  Williamson. 
Martha  Bryan. 
Bridgett  Webber. 


These  all  subscribed  by  themselves  present,  or  by  their 
substitutes,  the  number  of  which  are  ninety-eight ;  and  there 
were  but  two  members  more  that  we  could  not  then  know 
their  minds,  viz.,  brother  James  Bland,  coming  home  from 
sea,  and  sister  Morgan,  of  Barton  Regis,  not  there.1  So 
that  there  were  in  all  just  one  hundred  actual  members  when 
Mr.  Hardcastle  came.  But  there  were  many  other  members 
besides  that  had  removed  their  habitations,  some  in  the 
country,  and  some  to  London,  doubtful  whether  they  would 
return  again. 

After   this   was    done,    Mr.    Hardcastle   being   somewhat 


1  [In  the  original  paper  there  are  one 
hundred  signatures,  two  of  which,  his 
own  wife,  Dorothy  Terrill,  and  Jane 
Courtney,  Mr.  Terrill  has  omitted  in  the 


above  copy  inserted  in  the  church  book  ; 
perhaps  Mrs.  Terrill  continued  to  be 
nominally  a  member  of  Mr.  Hynam's 
church.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  137 

before  come  to  the  house  where  the  meeting  was,  which  was 
our  old  pastor's  house  in  the  castle,  the  church  sent  a  brother 
to  pray  him  to  come  into  that  room  where  the  church  met ; 
who  being  come  in,  one  of  the  elders  declares  to  Mr.  Hard- 
castle  what  the  church  had  that  morning  been  doing  : — That 
they  had  unanimously  chosen  or  elected  him  for  their  pastor, 
and,  therefore,  did  hope  he  would  not  refuse  the  Lord's 
voice  in  it  to  him,  but  that  he  would  accept  of  our  call ;  and 
so  presented  him  with  the  foregoing  paper — the  church's  call 
under  their  hands.  And,  withal,  to  let  him  see  visibly  that 
what  the  church  had  subscribed  and  delivered  him  was  their 
very  act  and  deed,  the  church  was  desired  by  one  of  the 
elders,  our  brother  Ellis,  to  manifest  their  earnest  desires  by 
every  member  lifting  up  their  right  hand  to  the  Lord ;  which 
immediately  was  done.  And  that  very  act,  to  see  so  many 
score  hands  lifted  up  together  in  a  room  at  once,  in  that 
solemn  manner  to  the  Lord,  struck  some  impress  upon  Mr. 
Hardcastle's  spirit,  that  he  could  not  deny  the  church,  though 
then  he  would  not  promise  positively  to  come  to  them  again, 
but  would  leave  it  with  the  Lord,  that  orders  and  limits  the 
bounds  of  our  habitation,  being  willing  to  be  where  he  might 
do  most  service  for  Christ.2 

Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  6. 

[Post  mark,  June  6th  or  8th.] 
My  dear  Brother, — I  got  to  London,  through  mercy,  yester- 
day, having  stayed  at  Battersea  with  Mrs.  Smith  3  from  Friday. 
I  am  not  well,  from  a  cold  I  got  riding  in  the  wet  without  boots, 
which  was  not  well  done.     I  return  you  my  hearty  thanks  for 

[2  Mr.  Browne  would  appear  to  have  May  22nd,  1671,  and  preserved  among 

supplied  the  church  for  a  fortnight  at  the  papers,  it  is  said;,  "  Mr.  Browne  in- 

this  time,  and  to  have  arrived  before  tends,  if  the  Lord  will,  to  see  you  this 

Mr.  Hardcastle  left.     In  a  short  note  week."] 
from  Mr.  John  Teague,  dated  London,  3  [See  before  note,  p.  116.] 


138  THE    RECORDS 

your  great  kindness  to  me.  I  have  not  yet  had  an  opportunity  to 
acquaint  the  congregation  with  the  concern,  and  I  dare  scarce  tell 
you  what  some  of  my  friends  say  of  your  call.  Pray  return  my 
dear  love  to  the  church  for  their  affection  to  me.  If  the  provi- 
dence of  God  open  a  door  for  me  to  come  to  Bristol,  I  hope  the 
Lord  will  make  us  happy  in  one  another.  I  cannot  say  much  at 
present ;  my  desire  is,  to  hearken  to  the  call  of  God,  and  to  be 
employed  by  him  where  I  may  be  most  useful,  and  to  follow  him 
where  he  leads  me ;  and  dare  believe  that  he  will  not  leave  nor 
suffer  me  to  miscarry. 

I  was  affected  with  the  solemnity  of  that  day  (in  Bristol).  If 
God  say  amen  to  your  prayers  and  endeavours,  I  must  say  so 
too ;  and  if  the  Lord  bring  me  to  you,  I  find  my  heart  inclined  to 
as  much  affection  for  you  as  any  that  I  have  been  joined  to.  I 
hoped  for  a  letter  from  you  ere  this,  both  to  me  and  the  congre- 
gation ;  for  the  business  will  need  managing  here,  wherein  you 
have  been  defective  all  along. 

My  dear  love  to  all  friends,  jointly  and  severally,  to  my  dear 
companions,  to  Bath.  To  brother  King  I  could  say  something  if  I 
were  near  him.  Pray  for  me,  as  I  doubt  not  you  will ;  for  what- 
ever advantage  you  may  reckon  of  from  me,  must  be  the  fruit  of 
prayer.  You  have  experienced,  I  hope,  the  efficacy  of  it.  My 
dear  love  to  sister  Terrill,  brother  Teague,  brother  Ellis,  and  his 

family. 

I  am,  yours, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 


Letter  from  the  church   in  London* 

[June  6th  or  8th,  by  the  post  mark.] 
Dearly  beloved  Brethren  in  our  Lord  Jesus, — We  have 
received  yours,  wherein  you  are  pleased  to  crave  our  pardon  that 
you  cannot  take  our  letter  for  a  denial,  and  use  arguments  to 

4   |  There  arc  DO  copies  of  the   letters  .sent  to  London.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  139 

reinforce  the  coming  of  brother  Hardcastle  unto  you  ;  which,  had 
we  been  in  a  capacity  of  complying  with  your  importunity,  yet 
the  grounds  you  lay  down  for  it  seem  to  us  to  be  rather  against 
it.     As, 

1.  If  the  major  part  of  you  had  taken  up  the  sacred  ordinance 
of  baptism,  only  so  as  that  they  [have]  cause  to  fear,  if  a  man  be 
set  over  them  that  is  not  baptized,  that  they  shall  be  guilty  of  a 
partial,  if  not  a  total  backsliding  : — we  beseech  you  to  consider, 
Received  you  the  truth  upon  man's  testimony,  or  upon  God's  ? 
If  of  men,  it  will  come  to  nought ;  but  if  of  God,  men  cannot 
overthrow  it.  But,  beloved,  we  are  persuaded  better  things  of 
you,  and  that  accompany  salvation,  though  you  thus  speak. 

2.  The  second  ground  you  build  upon  is,  your  former  practice, 
— not  scriptural  rules.  Nor  can  your  precedent  at  all  parallel  the 
present  case.  He  whom  you  had  was  a  man  3  the  church  could 
spare,  sent  out  by  them  to  see  where  in  the  vineyard  he  might  be 
serviceable ;  but  this  is  one  kept  in  the  church  that  hath  need  of 
him,  if  the  Lord  will  make  him  serviceable. 

3.  Your  third  ground  is,  that  it  will  gain  good  men  to  the 
truth  to  see  such  men  esteemed,  and  sent  for  to  be  set  over  a 
people  where  they  may  have  comfortable  maintenance.  Indeed, 
we  have  not  olive  yards  and  vineyards  to  entice  them,  and  if  we 
had,  we  should  be  very  fearful  to  receive  such  good  men  that 
money  moveth  to  embrace  the  truth,  lest  they  should  in  some 
things  come  short  of  Simon  Magus  ;  though  we  think  that  they 
that  serve  at  the  altar  should  live  of  the  altar. 

4.  Your  fourth  ground  of  leaning,  is  a  need  not  only  of  yours, 
but  of  other  congregations.  It  doth  answer  itself;  and  there  is 
much  more  need  here  than  with  you,  if  out  of  selfishness  we 
mistake  not. 

5.  Your  fifth  ground.  You  say  you  are  informed  that  it  was 
your  pastor's  desire  Mr.  Hardcastle  should  succeed  him.  We 
suppose,  had  he  known  what  you  do,  he  would  not  have  desired 
it  of  one  otherwise  engaged. 

5  [Mr.  Ewins.     See  before,  note,  p.  99. j 


140  THE    RECORDS 

6.  For  your  sixth  ground,  which  is  for  the  truth's  sake,  and  the 
honour  and  interest  of  Christ :  we  say,  if  your  call  for  Mr.  Hard- 
castle  at  this  time,  in  the  state  he  stands  with  us,  be  according  to 
the  truth  of  the  gospel,  and  that  it  is  more  for  the  honour  and 
interest  of  Christ  for  him  to  be  with  you  than  with  us,  we  will 
submit,  if  you  desire  it,  that  question  to  judicious  persons  to 
judge  of,  that  it  may  appear  to  you  we  keep  nothing  back  which 
the  Lord  calls  for,  upon  a  selfish  interest. 

For  the  rest  of  your  letter,  we  will  not  judge  your  prudence  in 
writing  of  it ;  and  we  hope  you  will  not  blame  us  for  not  answer- 
ing it.  We  unfeignedly  desire  you  may  stand  fast,  and  hold  the 
tradition  you  have  been  taught,  whether  by  word  or  epistle.  Now 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  himself,  and  God,  even  our  Father,  which 
loved  us,  and  hath  given  us  everlasting  consolation  and  good 
hope  through  grace,  comfort  your  hearts,  and  stablish  you  in 
every  good  word  and  work,  to  the  coming  of  our  Lord. 

Richard  Woollaston.  Natiianael  Crabb. 

Michael  Dunwell.  John  Cdshmaster. 

Thomas  Chapple.  Thomas  Dawson. 
John   Abbot. 


Letter  of  Mr.  Browne.     No.  6. 

Worcester,  12th  day,  4th  month  (June),  1671. 
To  my  much  esteemed  friend  Mr.  Terrill,  at  his  house. 

Di:ar  Broth  eh, — Many  thanks  for  your  great  kindness  when 
with  you.  The  good  Lord  hath,  through  abundant  mercy, 
brought  us  safe  to  Worcester,  where  we  are  waiting  at  the  foot  of 
the  Lord  to  know  his  will,  that  we  may  be  found  in  the  path  of 
his  own  choosing.  There,  and  there  alone,  can  we  expect  the 
royal  presence,  and  the  best  of  blessings.  I  hope  your  soul  is 
much  resigned  to  God,  and  to  his  conduct,  who  leads  in  green 
pastures,  by  the  still  waters,  and  communicates  that  life,  peace, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  141 

good,  comfort,  that  transcends  all.  Ah,  who  that  knows  him 
can  choose  but  admire  him,  and  delight  to  dwell  near  him  ! 
Oh,  how  great  are  our  losses  through  departures  from  him ! 
When  we  have  him,  we  can  say,  It  is  good  for  us  to  be 
here :  far  better  than  to  sit  upon  thrones,  and  enjoy  the 
glittering  glories  and  crowns  of  the  world.  But  fools  as  we 
are,  we  cannot  dwell  as  we  would  under  the  shadow  of  our 
Beloved,  and  eat  of  his  fruit.  Hence  it  is  that  we  excel  not,  and 
there  is  no  more  growth  to  be  found  upon  us  into  the  divine  will, 
and  the  fulness  of  the  stature  of  Christ.  Oh,  when  will  the  fixed 
state  be  introduced,  when  we  shall  be  made  as  pillars  in  the  house 
of  the  Lord,  and  always  see  his  face,  and  be  filled  with  his  com- 
pany, being  ever  with  him  !  Do  we  not  long  for  that  day  ?  Oh, 
but  are  we  ready  for  it  ?  Where  is  the  bride's  attire  ?  Have  we 
it  on  ?  Oh,  let  us  watch  and  keep  our  garments  !  A  sense  of 
our  justification  by  Christ,  and  interest  in  his  righteousness,  will 
make  us  glad  in  the  worst  of  states,  and  valiant  for  our  Lord  and 
his  truth  upon  the  earth.  My  true  love  and  respects  to  yourself, 
Mrs.  Terrill,  your  mother,  &c,  and 

I  am  yours,  in  the  best  bonds, 

Robert  Browne. 


Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  7. 
These  for  Mr.  Edward  Terrill,  writing-master,  Bristol. 

June  15th,  1671. 

Dear  Brother, — I  had  yours,  both  of  them  ;  one  of  which, 
in  that  to  the  congregation,  I  thank  you  for  your  kindness  ex- 
pressed in  it.  I  hope  I  shall  not  run  into  the  same  error  twice. 
I  have  not  yet  recovered  my  journey. 

I  have  been  thinking  much  of  the  pressing  importunity  which 
has  been  used  by  you  for  above  this  twelvemonth,  and  how  little 
inclination  I  found  in  myself  to  come  to  Bristol,  till  I  saw  you, 
and  understood  your  call.     Now  has    God   inclined   my  heart 


142  THE    RECORDS 

toward  you  in  a  wonderful  manner.  I  long  to  see  next  Tuesday 
over  ;  you  will  see  more  of  it  in  brother  King's  letter-  You 
must  perfect  by  prayer  what  you  have  thus  far  made  progress  in. 
There  want  not  endeavours  to  dissuade  from  Bristol,  and  all  that 
can  be  invented  to  alienate  me;  but  these  things  do  not  much 
move  me.  Let  my  call  appear  clear,  and  I  hope  I  should  make 
no  dispute,  whatever  discouragements  may  be  laid  before  me. 
The  Lord  Jesus  does  not  use  to  call  his  servants  to  work,  but  he 
bears  their  charges,  and  carries  them  through  all  hardships.  I 
have  no  reason  to  think  that  that  love  and  affection  you  all 
showed  was  feigned,  nor  will  I  believe  it  will  be  inconstant  till  I 
see  it ;  and  that  I  hope  I  shall  never  do. 

Our  good  women  are  at  prayer  hard  together  this  week  to  keep 
me  here ;  our  men  deeply  consulting  what  to  do.  I  have  truly 
represented  the  whole  circumstances  of  your  case  and  invitation 
to  all  I  converse  with.  Persons  tell  me  they  have  lost  their 
opportunity,  for  they  were  about  to  call  me  before  I  came  up  ; 
that  there  is  a  clear  hand  and  voice  of  God  in  it ;  that  this  delay, 
for  some  groundless  motives,  has  brought  this  upon  them,  for  all 
but  two  or  three  were  for  choosing  me  a  year  ago.  Though  I 
should  not  have  accepted  it,  for  I  did  not  see  my  call  clear  whilst 
one  person  hesitated,  even  though  the  scruple  was  without  ground 
at  all. 

They  seem  resolved  not  to  give  me  a  dismission.  I  see  a  great 
discovery  of  their  affections,  which  troubles  me  much;  but  the 
voice  of  God  must  first  be  hearkened  unto.  I  shall  be  troubled 
to  leave  them  without  leave.  I  could  have  wished  that  expression 
had  been  out  of  your  letter,  of  taking  me  by  force  ;  that  will  not 
down  with  them.  Though  I  think  that  office  and  service  super- 
sedes membership,  I  think  it  may  be  advisable  for  you  (pardon 
my  readiness  to  give  you  advice,  for  now  conscience  puts  me 
upon  that  which  before  I  was  kept  from)  to  write  to  the  seven 
ministers  whom  you  writ  to  before ;  for  I  believe  some  of  them 
will  be  called  in  on  Tuesday  to  our  people's  advice,  wherein  you 
may  state  your  case,  &c.  If  I  were  not  a  little  your  solicitor  and 
friend  here,  or  rather  did  my  duty  to  search  out  the  mind  of  God, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  143 

that  I  might  follow  it,  the  business  would  stick  very  much. 
Your  call  has  made  me  look  about  me,  and  you  prevail  with  God 
to  make  hearts  and  solicitors  for  you.  Oh,  how  good  is  it  to  be 
upright  and  succeed  with  God,  to  keep  his  way,  to  love  his  name, 
his  interest,  his  family,  &c. ;  to  have  no  reserve,  to  aim  at  his 
glory,  to  keep  humble,  to  think  meanly  of  ourselves,  &c. 

My  true  love  to  all  the  brethren  and  sisters,  not  one  left  out ; 
to  dear  sister  and  brother  Teague's  family.  Pray,  pray  hard  for 
me.  Your  constant  love  engages  and  enlarges  my  heart  towards 
you.  You  see  something  of  the  fruits  of  importunity  with  God 
and  men.  The  Lord  bless  you,  and  in  due  time  send  us  a 
comfortable  meeting.  1  have  pressing  business  calling  me  into 
Yorkshire,  upon  the  death  of  a  near  relation,  which  causes  a 
great  alteration  of  affairs  in  our  family ;  besides  the  longing 
desires  of  all  my  friends  there,6  and  other  business;  but  my 
thoughts  at  present  are  so  taken  up,  that  I  know  not  what  answer 
to  give. 

I  am  your  very  affectionate,  obliged  brother, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 
Write  next  post. 


Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  8. 
These  for  Mr.  Edward  Terrill,  writing  master,  in  Bristol. 

[June  22nd,  by  post  mark.] 

My  dear  Brother, — I  received  yours  of  the  17th,  which  did 

much  surprise  me,  in  that  it  did  not  mention  the  receipt  of  mine, 

which   I  writ  by  the  same  post  which  brought  that  to  brother 

King.     I  writ  largely  to  you  in  that,  and  if  it  be  lost  I  shall  be 

6  ["  I  had  many  friends  in  Yorkshire,  fruits  of  my  ministry  were  sown  among 

where   I   drew  my   first    natural    and  them — the  Lord  having  made  my  poor 

spiritual  breath,  for  whom  I  have  en-  endeavours  useful    to   some.'" — Epistle 

deared   affections,   and   whom    I    have  Ded.  to  Christian  Geography.] 
daily  in   mv    remembrance  ;    the   first 


144  THE    RECORDS 

very  much  troubled ;  for  I  did  fully  open  my  heart  to  you  in  it, 
as  likewise  I  did  in  that  to  brother  King.  Pray  inquire  after  it. 
I  directed  it  as  I  used  to  do. 

As  to  the  state  of  affairs  here,  I  shall  give  you  this  account. 
Our  people  did  not  meet  on  the  third  day  as  they  intended,  but 
put  it  off  for  a  fortnight  longer.  I  suppose  the  design  is  this,  to 
fortify  themselves  against  the  assault  which  you  have  made.  I 
must  confess  I  cannot  but  take  notice  of  the  passage :  it  seems  to 
be  a  further  clearing  up  of  Providence.  I  much  desire  to  hear 
how  the  Lord  dealt  with  you  at  your  last  meeting.  Some  say  you 
have  lorded  it  over  our  church,  and  taken  them  at  an  advantage ; 
that  when  they  have  been  in  treaty  so  long,  and  ready  to  perfect 
the  matter,  you  should  come  and  take  it  out  of  their  hands.  They 
endeavour  to  lay  you  under  sin ;  but  I  must  needs  say,  that 
though  some  things  might  have  admitted  of  correction,  yet  taking 
in  your  necessity  and  opportunity,  I  do  not  see  how  wise  and 
indifferent  persons  can  lay  you  under  much  blame.  Indeed,  those 
that  are  parties  may  be  angry.  As  I  have  told  you  often,  I  have 
been  waiting,  without  casting  anything  into  the  balance  but  the 
interest  of  Christ,  whatever  the  issue  of  this  business  might  be. 
Ready  and  resolved,  by  the  strength  of  Christ,  to  follow  his  call 
and  footsteps  of  providence,  I  must  needs  declare,  that  so  far  as  I 
see  at  present  my  call  is  to  Bristol.  I  must  tell  you,  I  cannot  but 
stand  admiring  at  the  wonderful  providence  of  God  in  this 
business  ;  I  have  not  observed  a  more  remarkable  passage  of  this 
kind.  What  prevalency  has  importunity  with  God,  where  sin- 
cerity is  at  the  bottom  !  How  good  is  it  to  be  willing  to  be 
where  our  God  would  have  us ;  to  let  him  choose  the  bounds  of 
our  habitation  !  How  comfortable  to  be  willing  to  follow  him, 
step  by  step,  though  we  cannot  see  the  length  of  the  journey ! 
Much  of  our  work  lies  hid  till  you  come  upon  the  place.  Pray 
hard  for  me,  that  I  may  come  to  you  in  the  fulness  of  the  blessing 
of  the  gospel ;  for,  by  the  help  of  God,  I  have  now  taken  up  this 
resolution.  I  came  to  a  full  point  yesterday,  that  I  will  strike 
through  all  difficulties,  God  assisting,  that  men  or  Satan  can  lay 
in  my  way ;    and  make  all  the  convenient  haste  I  can  to  you, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  145 

leaving  my  wife  to  come  after,  if  she  cannot  come  with  me. 
Remember  her  condition. 

I  intend  to  desire  my  dismission  shortly,  and  if  I  cannot  have 
it,  I  must  take  it.  I  dare  not  tell  my  friends  here  my  resolution 
as  yet,  for  fear  of  their  cries  and  clamours ;  for  some  of  them 
have  a  hope  that  I  shall  stay.  I  must  keep  my  own  counsel  till  I 
can  bring  my  business  to  a  ripeness.  I  hope,  by  God's  blessing, 
to  be  with  you  in  less  than  a  month ;  but  let  not  this  be  made 
much  public.  I  am  persuaded  my  satisfaction  has  come  much 
from  your  prayers.  My  spirit  is  calm,  my  heart  is  much  knit  to 
you.     Tell  the  church  I  am  yours. 

My  dear  love  to  all,  to  sister  Terrill,  brother  Teague ;  he  was 
the  first  mover  in  this  business,  and  the  first  Bristol  man  I  knew. 
I  shall  write  to  brother  Ellis  and  brother  White  by  the  next  post. 
My  dear  wife  remembers  you  all  affectionately,  though  she  has 
had  no  mind  to  leave  London,  having  lived  in  it  so  long. 
Yet  the  Lord  has  wonderfully  wrought  her  spirit  to  submission  to 
his  will,  and  I  hope  she  will  have  no  cause  to  repent  it,  but  to 
bless  God.  For  other  matters,  I  refer  you  to  brother  King's 
letter,  which  comes  down  with  this,  because  I  would  forbear 
writing  the  same  things  twice,7 


Letter  of  Mr.  Broicne.     No.  7. 

These  for  my  respected   friend,  Mr.  Edward   Terrill,  at  his 
house,  near  Lawford's  Gate,  Bristol. 

Worcester,  26th  day,  4th  month,  1671. 

Dear  Brother, — Yours  of  the  16th  of  the  4th  month,  with 

our  brother  Courtney's  of  the  22nd  of  the  same,  I  received.     The 

former  acquaints  me  that  you  have  no  account  of  our  brother 

Hardcastle's  intendment.     Since  then,  I  perceive  by  the   latter, 

[This  letter  is  without  signature.] 


146  THE    RECORDS 

you  have  a  kind  of  denial,  and  jealousies  of  non-enjoying  so 
great  a  mercy,  after  so  long  waiting,  are  increased ;  which  I  am 
truly  sorry  for.  You  remember  that,  from  first  to  last,  I  never 
made  any  promise  to  you  of  coming  amongst  you,  and  that  I  told 
you,  as  I  did  Captain  Ellis,  when  by  the  order  of  the  church  he 
proposed  the  question  to  me,  the  day  before  they  gave  brother 
Hardcastle  the  opportunity  of  a  church  meeting,  the  ground  of  their 
importunity,  as  you  intimated,  and  proceeds  at  that  season,  my 
coming  was  very  uncertain ;  partly  because  I  presumed  our  friends 
here,  at  Worcester,  would  be  unwilling  to  part  with  me ;  and  partly 
by  reason  of  the  great  importunity  of  the  people  at  Wapping,  and 
the  importance  of  the  service  there.  That  which  I  directed  you 
to  was  Christian  and  suitable, — that  both  you  and  I  might  be 
waiting  at  the  foot  of  God  for  counsel  and  direction  in  so  weighty 
a  case.     This  we  have  done,  as  the  Lord  hath  holpen  us. 

I  have  also  taken  notice  of  the  great  affection  of  some  with 
you  towards  me,  and  their  desires  of  me ;  which  I  wonder 
at,  being  more  worthless  than  any  can  conceive;  which  your 
encouragement  you  give  in  several  of  your  letters  (as  our  brother 
doth  in  his  last,  for  which  I  give  you  and  him  both  my  hearty 
thanks)  to  me  of  residing  amongst  you.  If  I  have  done  any 
service  there,  or  been  of  the  least  use,  if  I  have  any  interest  there, 
it  is  no  more  I  but  the  free  grace  of  God.  I  would  be  more  vile 
in  my  own  eyes,  and  in  the  humility  of  my  soul  be  bowing  down 
before  the  footstool  of  the  throne,  for  greater  supplies  of  the 
Spirit,  that  I  maybe  holpen  (for  without  these  we  can  do  nothing) 
to  do  God  yet  greater  and  farther  service.  What  an  honour  will 
it  be  to  have  God  bearing  this  testimony  concerning  us,  that  we 
have  served  our  generation  according  to  his  will  before  we  fell 
asleep.     Pray  hard  for  me,  my  dear  brother,  that  I  may  do  so. 

As  touching  the  matter  so  long  in  agitation,  the  utmost  result, 
1  humbly  conceive,  I  am  brought  to  by  the  Lord,  after  solemn  and 
frequent  smoking  to  him  for  counsel,  is  a  perfect  resolution  either 
to  continue  with  our  friends  here,  at  Worcester,  where  I  am  not, 
through  grace,  altogether  undesired,  or  to  go  to  Wapping,  from 
whence  I  have  received  several  letters  since  I  saw  you,  impor- 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  147 

tuning  my  speedy  coming  to  them.  The  reasons  of  this  resolve 
are  too  many  to  be  here  inserted ;  they  are  such  as  abundantly 
satisfy  me,  and  will  you,  I  presume,  when  you  hear  them.  Of 
it  I  was  willing  to  give  you  a  speedy  account,  lest  you  should 
(as  you  intimated  the  church  would)  take  an  easier  answer  from 
our  brother  Hardcastle,  in  case  I  would  promise  to  come,  and  so 
injure  yourselves,  and  the  work  of  the  Lord  with  you ;  which  my 
groans  are  and  shall  be,  that  the  Lord  would  make  to  prosper 
greatly  in  the  midst  of  you. 

Many  thanks   to   yourself  and  wife   for  your  great  kindness 
when  with  you,  to  whom  my  dear  love  and  respects.     Pray  give 
the  same  to  your  mother,  and  all  friends  that  inquire  after  me, 
particularly  to  brother  Teague  and  his  wife. 
I  am,  dear  brother, 
Your  brother  in  the  fellowship  of  the  gospel, 

Robert  Browne. 


Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  9. 
These  for  Mr.  Terrill,  writing-master,  in  Bristol. 

3rd  day.  [June  27th  post  mark,  written  the  day  before.] 
My  dear  Brother, — I  propose  to  have  writ  to  brother  King, 
brother  Ellis,  and  brother  White  this  post,  but  am  so  exceedingly 
hurried  with  business.  It  is  now  ten  o'clock.  This  day  has  been 
a  perplexing  day;  our  congregation  met,  and  have  elected  me 
pastor.  The  next  third  day  [Tuesday  the  3rd  of  July]  I  am  to 
give  in  my  answer,  and  then  there  will  be  several  brethren  of 
other  congregations  present.  My  resolution  is  fixed ;  you  know 
what  it  is ;  but  pray  for  me,  for  it  will  be  the  most  difficult  thing 
to  get  off  that  ever  I  met  with.  I  am  under  considerable  trouble 
by  solicitations  and  arguments,  which,  though  they  do  not  turn 
me,  yet  they  trouble  me.     Our  people  lay  you  under  sin,  that 

'       L  2 


148  THE    RECORDS 

when  they  in   kindness  send  a  messenger   to  visit    you,  you   in 
injustice  take  him  from  them. 

They  begin  to  charge  me,  among  other  things,  that  I  did  incline 
to  you  more  than  to  them ;  which  how  true  that  is,  you  can  all 
attest  how  little  you  discovered  of  that  whilst  I  was  with  you  at 
Bristol  before  your  call. 

A  little  before  I  received  your  letter,  I  had  been  with  Dr. 
Owen  and  Mr.  Collins,8  who  are  the  most  loving  friends  I  have 
in  London.  Dr.  Owen  used  this  expression  to  me,  Good  Mr. 
Hardcastle,  by  that  love  that  I  bear  to  you,  let  me  beg  of  you  to 
go  to  Bristol,  for  there  is  your  work.  Mr.  Collins  the  like.  I 
know  that  meeting  in  London  of  ministers  very  well,  and  go  to  it 
as  occasion  serves.  Mr.  Loder  9  I  know  very  well.  I  am  glad 
you  have  made  use  of  these  men,  for  none  more  kind  in  London 
than  they  to  me.  I  would  gladly  get  a  dismission  from  our 
people;  it  would  be  worth  while  for  your  and  my  satisfaction, 
and  for  the  honour  of  the  gospel,  though  it  cost  me  a  month's 
stay  longer  from  you  to  get  it.  We  must  study  things  of  good 
report,  and  consider  if  it  were  your  own  case,  as  it  was  a  while 
ago.  Desire  the  church  to  pray  for  me.  Let  me  hear  from  you. 
Get  the  church  to  write  a  fair  letter  to  them,  to  desire  this  dis- 
mission of  me,  and  recommendation;  and  own  it  as  a  kindness 
from  them,  that  the  consideration  of  a  greater  usefulness  will 
make  them  to  deny  themselves,  &c. 

My  wishes  to  all  as  if  named. 

I  am  yours, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 

8  [The  celebrated  Dr.   John  Owen,  chant's  Lecture  in  that  place.— Wilson's 

and   probably  the  Rev.  John  Collins,  Diss.  Ch.  i.  226.] 

who    had    been    chaplain    to   General  9  [The    Rev.   John    Loder   was   an 

Monk,  and  succeeded  Mr.  Mallery  as  ejected  minister,  assistant  and  successor 

pastor   of    an    independent   church    in  to  the  celebrated  Philip  Nye,  the  pastor 

Lime  Street.     He  was  chosen,  with  Dr.  of  an  independent  church,  meeting  in 

Owen,  to  lecture  at  Pinner's  Hall,  in  Silver  Street,  London.     Mr.  Loder  died 

1672,  on  the  establishment  of  the  Mer-  in  1673.— Wilson's  Diss.  Ch.  iii.  78.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  149 

Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  10. 

These  for  Mr.  Edward  Terrill,  in  Bristol. 

[July  3rd,  1671.] 
Dear  Brother, — Though  late  and  very  weary,  1  could  not 
but  give  you  an  account  of  this  day's  work.  We  have  had  a 
sore  tug  ;  brother  Kiffin  and  brother  Harrison  *  were  wonderful 
hearty  for  you,  though  they  could  not  justify  your  call  as  regular 
in  all  things,  yet  they  judge  the  mind  of  God  to  be  in  it ;  your 
necessity  putting  you  upon  it  might  plead  a  little  for  you,  and 
that,  therefore,  you  should  be  dealt  with  tenderly.  Others  there 
did  conclude  it  absolutely  sinful.  I  declared  before  the  congrega- 
tion and  the  rest,  that  in  conscience  I  did  look  upon  it  as  that 
which  did  carry  the  mind  of  God  in  it  thus  far,  that  my  work  at 
present  lay  there,  and  that  I  should  sin  if  I  should  refuse  this  call, 
and  that  it  was  so  upon  my  heart,  that  all  earthly  considerations 
could  not  keep  me  from  answering  it.  This  did  startle  them  all. 
Some  told  me  that  the  first  step  taken  was  sinful, — that  not  a 
blessing,  but  a  curse  would  attend  me,  &c.  I  told  them  I  did  not 
use  to  be  frightened  by  great  words,  and  that  no  man's  conscience 
should  be  the  rule  of  mine.  Many  good  women  weeping  about 
me,  I  told  them  it  was  not  want  of  affection,  but  sense  of  duty 
drew  me  away,  &c.  I  cannot  enlarge.  I  shall  now  prosecute  a 
dismission  with  all  the  fairness  I  can.  I  must  not  leave  them 
abruptly,  but  see  them  a  little  calmed.  Pray  for  me.  Let  me 
hear  from  you.  My  love  to  you  as  if  named.  I  had  brother 
King's  letter.  My  love  to  Mr.  Barnes ;  thank  him  from  me  for 
his  kindness  to  my  charge ;  tell  him  I  will  mind  his  and  brother 

1  [Mr.  Edward  Harrison  was  a  clergy-  Faith,  next  after  Mr.  Kiffin's.     On  two 

man,  who,  during  the  Commonwealth,  occasions  he  assisted  in  setting  apart  the 

became  a  baptist,  and  pastor  or  elder  of  colleagues  of  Mr.  Kiffin,  at  Devonshire 

a  church  in  London  (probably  that  in  Square — Mr.  Patient,  and  Mr.  Dyke. — 

Petty  France),  his  name  being  signed  to  Ivimey,   ii.  407.      Devonshire   Square 

the  third  edition  of  the  Confession  of  Records,  MS.  B.] 


150  THE    RECORDS 

Robinson's  concerns  here.2     I  have  been  twice  with   Dr.  Owen 
and  others  about  our  business.     Dear  love  to  sister  Terrill. 

1  am  yours, 

Thomas   Hardcastle. 


Letter  of  Mr.  Broivne.     No.  8. 

These  for  my  respected  friend  and  brother  Mr.  Edward  Terrill, 
at  his  house,  in  Bristol. 

Worcester,  10th  day,  5th  month  [July],  1671. 
Dear  Brother, — Though  I  have  time  but  for  a  line  or  two,  I 
would  not  neglect  the  opportunity  offered  of  writing  to  you, 
whose  prosperity  every  way  my  soul  longs  after,  and  breathes  for 
before  the  throne.  May  we  be  counted  worthy  to  live  under  the 
dews  and  influences  of  the  new  covenant,  the  Sun  of  Righteous- 
ness ;  we  shall  then  be  bringing  forth  much  fruit  to  Jehovah's 
praise,  who,  by  our  abounding  therein,  is  glorified.  Alas,  what 
dead,  dry,  sapless  ones  are  we,  for  want  of  the  waters  of  life,  the 
fountain  of  the  gardens,  which  makes  the  spices  to  flow  forth. 
How  little  of  the  primitive  spirit — the  spirit,  power,  life  of  Chris- 
tianity, is  there  to  be  found  amongst  the  professing  children  of  the 
Lord  ;  which,  degenerating  into  the  form  of  things,  and  as  the 
issue  of  that  censuring,  backbiting,  &c,  all  that  differ  from  us,  or 
we  surmise  do  so,  in  any  small  matter,  is  visible  in  many  places 
at  this  day  !  How  little  true  love,  plain-heartedness,  and  holy  zeal 
for  the  Lord,  becoming  his  redeemed  ones,  is  there  shining  amongst 
us !  I  write  not  thus  as  if  I  were  not  persuaded  better  things  of 
you,  my  dear  brother,  which  I  am ;  but  that  the  remembrance  of 
these   might  beget  new  groans,   fresh   tears,  as    there    is    cause, 

3  [Mr.  Barnes  resided  near  Magor,  in  pastor  of  a  church  about  Magor,  which 

Cacrleon.    He  was  sent  from  the  church  met  in  various  places  for  the  convenience 

at  Allhallows,  London,  in  1646,  to  preach  of  its  members.     Mr.  Robinson  was  an 

the  gospel  in  Wales,  where  he  laboured  ejected  minister  from   the  vicarage   of 

amid   much   suffering    and    self-denial.  Caerleon.— Palmer's  Noncon.  Mem.  ii. 

Silenced  for  nonconformity,  he  became  6:29.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  1  ;">  1 

before  the  throne  :  with  holy  wrestlings  for  the  pouring  down  of 
the  Spirit,  as  shall  create  new  glory,  beauty,  loveliness  upon  the 
assemblies  of  Zion,  and  make  us  ashamed  of  what  we  now  may 
think  (through  our  own  fire,  darkness,  shortness)  we  have  no 
cause  to  be  troubled,  humbled  for. 

Oh,  how  my  soul  longs  for  that  day  !  Is  not  the  cry  increased 
among  the  sincere  remnant,  Come,  Lord  Jesus,  in  the  spirit  and 
power  of  Elias,  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children, 
by  the  burning  up  of  the  dross,  filth,  carnality,  that  is  in  us,  and 
upon  us,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers,  and  to 
prepare  a  way  for  the  kingdom  of  our  Lord,  and  his  exaltment  in 
the  world  ?     When  shall  Ave  be  like  men  that  wait  for  that  state  ? 

Yesterday  I  received  yours  of  the  24th  of  the  4th  month 
[June],  and,  as  touching  the  business  of  Mr.  Hardcastle,  am  per- 
fectly unconcerned,  any  further  than  to  beg  the  Lord  it  may 
succeed  to  his  honour,  and  your  comfort.  Of  my  resolutions  of 
non-residing  in  Bristol,  I  have  given  you  an  intimation  in  my 
last ;  though  I  confess  there  are  several  of  vou  that  I  have  a  dear 
love  of  the  Lord  for,  as  is  meet,  and  shall  be  ready  to  serve  when 
Providence  orders  my  company  at  any  time  with  you  by  way  of 
visit.  As  touching  the  brethren  you  mention,  with  respect  to  any 
thing  formerly  discoursed  of,  there  is  no  need  of  holding  any 
correspondence  with  them,  because  of  the  resolve  but  now  men- 
tioned. I  was  a  little  sensible  of  brother  Ellis's  strangeness  when 
there,  and  since  have  received  some  further  intimations  ;  but  as  I 
know  not  any  occasions  administered  by  me,  so  I  shall  not  lay 
any  law  of  disquietment  upon  my  spirit  touching  it.  Graviora 
tuli.  The  good  Lord  fill  us  with  his  Spirit,  and  enable  us  to  do 
worthily  for  him  in  our  day. 

My  very  Christian  and  cordial  love  to  yourself,  wife,  mother  ; 
and  shall  very  gladly  hold  Christian  correspondence  with  yourself, 
because  I  am 

Your  much  endeared  and  obliged  brother, 

Robert  Browne.3 

3  [Mr.  Browne  continued  for  some  ter,  when,  in  March,  1687,  he  received 
years  the  pastor  of  a  church  at  Worces-       an  invitation  from  the  baptist  church  at 


152  THE    RECORDS 

Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  1 1 . 
These  for  Mr.  Edward  Terrill,  in  Bristol. 

11th  day,  5th  month  [July],  1671. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  had  yours,  but  it  was  very  short. 
You  lie  very  near  me.  The  Lord  has  been  pleased  to  lay  his 
hand  upon  me.  On  first  day  I  was  overheated  with  preaching, 
and  got  a  surfeit  with  cold  drink,  which  has  put  me  into  a  violent 
vomiting,  &c,  ever  since,  night  and  day.  I  am  very  much  out 
of  order.     Pray  for  me. 

I  could  not  slip  this  post,  though  I  am  so  faint  I  can  scarce 
write.  Mr.  Collins  came  to  see  me  just  now,  and  is  hearty  for 
you.  I  saw  Dr.  Owen  yesterday,  who  is  absolute  in  approving 
my  way,  and  would  not  have  me  stand  on  a  dismission,  for  all 
the  elders  will  clear  me  in  this  case,  and  will  justify  your  call ; 
though  our  people  are  vehement  in  laying  you  under  sin,  and  me 
also  in  accepting  it,  and  in  so  many  words  tell  me  we  shall  be 
crossed,  nay,  even  cursed  in  one  another.  I  am  troubled  to  see 
such  spirits  working.  They  would  now  stay  me  by  all  the  art 
they  have,  but  I  am  resolved ;  since  they  are  so  uncharitable  and 
unchristian,  I  will  vindicate  myself  and  you  to  the  utmost.     They 

Plymouth,  which  had  enjoyed  the  ser-  the  wall  of  the  vestry  of  the  new  chapel 

vices  of  that  martyred  saint,  Abraham  recently  erected  by  this  church,  we  learn 

Cheare.     After  but  a  few  month's  la-  that  he  died  on  the  22nd  Feb.  1687 

bour,  his  excessive  preaching  brought  [1688],  aged  fifty-four.     His  epitaph  is 

him    to   the  grave. — Ivimey,   ii.    118.  as  follows  : — 
From  his  tombstone,  now  attached  to 

"  The  king  of  terrors  hath  entombed  my  dust 
But  till  the  resurrection  of  the  just, 
When  crowned  saints  with  crowned  Christ,  their  King, 
At  the  last  trump  shall  hallelujah  sing. 
Needs  must  this  vessel  break,  frail  nature  yield, 
The  treasure  was  so  rich  wherewith  'twas  filled  ; 
More  fit  to  feast  with  perfect  saints  above, 
Where  measures  feel  no  pain,  in  matchless  love. 
My  glass  is  run,  thine  doth  whilst  looking  on, 
Haste,  do  thy  work,  or  thou  wilt  be  undone." 

Communicated  by  the  Rev.  Samuel  Nicholson,  pastor  of  the  church.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  153 

are  even  wrathful  to  see  how  they  are  overreached.  I  must  pro- 
fess it  is  pure  conscience  binds  me ;  and  I  dare  not  refuse  what  I 
think  to  be  the  call  of  God.  And  now  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Smith  are 
so  convinced,  that  as  the  case  stands  they  are  free  you  should 
have  me ;  and  Mrs.  Smith,  who  before  was  so  much  against  it,  is 
now  your  perpetual  advocate,  and  is  resolved  to  stand  by  my 
going  to  you,  and  hastens  me. 

Those  that  censure  you  are  those  that  have  been  the  cause  of 
others  forfeiting  their  opportunity ;  and  there  [is]  such  a  feud 
between  those  few  and  the  major  part,  that  though  the  few  now 
stickle  so  hard,  yet  they,  i.  e.  the  major  part,  see  it  is  not  in  so 
candid  a  way,  and  they  do  confess  ingenuously  that  the  Bristol 
friends  have  carried  it  by  minding  their  business;  and  though 
they  love  me  better  than  those  that  stickle  so  hard  for  my  stay, 
and  are  so  ready  to  charge  you  with  sin,  yet  they  profess  they 
cannot  charge  you  for  what  they  themselves  would  have  done 
long  since,  had  they  not  been  obstructed.  Pray  hard  for  me.  I 
make  all  the  haste  I  can;  it  will  not  be  a  month,  I  hope, 
before  I  am  with  you.  Mr.  Harrison  is  for  Bath  next  week. 
If  any  of  you  would  step  over  to  him,  and  procure  his  help,  you 
might  have  it ;  he  is  your  friend  very  much.  I  did  not  think  I 
could  have  held  out  writing  so  long,  but  my  heart  is  in  the  work. 
Excuse  me  to  brother  White  and  brother  King  that  I  write 
not.  I  am  tired  out  with  business,  and  I  will  endeavour  to  make 
it  up  when  I  come. 

My  true  love  to  the  congregation.  Brother  Terrill,  you  are 
very  dear  to  yours, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 


Letter  from  the  church  in  London. 

For  Mr.  Edward  Terrill,  in  Bristol.     This  for  the  congregation. 

Dearly  beloved  in  the    Lord, — You  have  greatly  grieved 
us,  while  we  were  expressing  our  brotherly  love  to  you  in  sending 


154  THE    RECORDS 

brother  Hardcastle,  as  the  church's  messenger,  to  visit  you,  and 
to  acquaint  you  with  our  state,  and  how  things  were  with  us,  and 
also  to  represent  yours  to  us.  But  finding  you  made  that  use  of 
our  kindness,  to  tell  us,  as  we  conceive  uncharitably,  you  doubted 
we  did  not  pity  your  condition,  and  therefore  you  were  constrained 
to  take  him  by  force  ;  which  force  without  a  rule,  is  for  good  men 
to  do  as  Eli's  bad  sons  did.  For  if  men  would  by  force  take  the 
kingdom  of  heaven,  or  anything  relating  to  it,  it  must  be  by  rule. 
A  man  is  not  crowned,  except  he  strive  lawfully. 

We,  therefore,  desire  you,  for  Christ's  sake,  that  you  produce 
rule  for  what  you  have  done,  or  give  testimony  of  your  unfeigned 
repentance  for  what  you  have  done,  and  not  think  we  should 
justify  your  action  because  it  is  done,  by  giving  our  brother  a 
dismission  to  an  irregular  call  of  yours,  as  we  apprehend  it.  It 
is  not  enough  for  you  in  your  last  letter  to  say,  The  Lord  led  you 
to  call  Mr.  Hardcastle,  and  that  you  were  at  a  great  loss,  until  at 
last  you  heard  a  great  voice  from  the  cherubim,  in  the  multitude 
of  the  disciples,  within  and  without,  as  if  you  had  got  a  revela- 
tion, &c,  instead  of  a  rule.  But  go  unto  the  law  and  the  testi- 
mony ;  if  any  speak  not  according  to  that  rule,  it  is  because  there 
is  no  morning  in  them  ;  for  in  doing  to  others  as  you  would  have 
others  do  unto  you,  it  is  the  law  and  the  prophets. 

And,  we  pray  you,  be  not  so  bold  as  to  say,  what  you  did 
1  God  did.'  No :  do  not  make  the  voice  of  the  people  that  were 
ignorant  of  things,  some  of  which  you  knew,  to  be  the  voice  of 
God.  We  beseech  you,  do  not  speak  so  high,  and  act  so  low, 
that  a  person  who  was  set  apart  by  the  church  with  us,  and  by 
his  own  consent,  for  the  approbation  of  the  church  whereof  he  is 
a  member,  and  who  was  sent  in  much  love  to  you  as  a  messenger 
of  the  church,  to  acquaint  you  how  things  were  with  us ;  and  for 
you  then  to  think  to  take  him  by  force,  and  to  sweeten  your  so 
doing,  to  exhort  and  warn  us,  in  the  Lord's  name,  to  beware  of 
the  great  temptation  of  schism  by  rending,  and  to  watch  against 
the  prodigious  sin  of  division  and  schism,  when  you  have  tempted 
us  thereunto,  and  laid  the  foundation  for  it  by  what  you  have 
done,  if  the  Lord  of  his  goodness  prevent  it  not.     We  desire  the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  155 

Lord  to  open  your  eyes  to  see  what  you  have  done,  and  give  you 
repentance,  and  hearts  to  obey  according  to  the  rules  of  the 
gospel,  that  neither  those  without  may  be  misled  by  you,  to  the 
dishonour  of  Christ,  and  ill  example  of  others. 

We  hope  we  shall  not  cease  to  pray  for  you  to  our  dear  Lord 
and  faithful  Shepherd,  that,  we  are  persuaded,  will  not  leave  us, 
though  we  are  as  unworthy  as  any  that  are  his  sheep,  neither  to 
divide  nor  rend.  We  desire  his  rod  and  staff  may  conduct, 
correct,  and  comfort  you ;  to  whom  we  commend  you,  and  remain 
your  fellow  servants. 

Signed  by  appointment  of  the  congregation  this  18th  of  the 
fifth  month,  1671. 

Michael  Dunwell,  Thomas  Dawson, 

John Thomas  Chappell.4 

Nathan iell  Crabb^ 


Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  12. 
These  for  Mr.  Edward  Terrill,  Bristol. 

20th  or  21st,  5th  month  [July],  1671. 
My  dear  Brother, — I  have  yours,  and  should  have  answered 
it  the  last  post,  but  had  been  a  little  out  of  town,  in  the  air,  because 
of  my  distemper,  which,  through  the  rich  mercy  of  God,  is  now 
quite  over.  I  was  at  Newington,  at  my  Lord  Fleetwood's,  with 
Dr.  Owen,  where  our  business  was  thoroughly  discoursed.  My 
lord  is  of  Dr.  Owen's  church  ;  my  lady  is  of  ours.  Both  Lord 
and  Lady  Fleetwood  5  seemed  to  be  under  very  great  disturbance 

4  [This   letter   is   endorsed   by   Mr.  who   left   the   established   church    and 

Terrill,  "  The  church  in  London's  let-  joined  the  baptists,  iv.  251.] 
ter.      Not   answered.      Those  walking  5  [Lord  Charles  Fleetwood  was  a  son- 

with  Mr.  Abbott."     Mr.  Abbot  is  men-  in-law   of    Cromwell,    having    married 

fcioned  by  Crosby  as  a  man  of  learning,  Bridget,  the  widow  of    Henry    Ireton, 


156  THE    RECORDS 

and  dissatisfaction  upon  my  going  to  Bristol,  and  would  lay  me 
under  blame.  The  doctor  and  I  laboured  to  satisfy  them,  but 
could  effect  little ;  if  they  see  success  then  they  will  believe  it  a 
call.  A  gentleman  at  table  asked  my  lord,  whether,  if  he  and 
his  family  were  to  remove  to  Bristol,  he  would  be  against  my 
going  thither  ?     My  lord  would  not  give  him  an  answer. 

You  must  pardon  brevity,  for  you  may  easily  imagine  I  am 
much  hurried,  and  purpose,  if  God  will,  to  set  forward  for 
Bristol  on  Monday  come  se'nnight,  and  shall  be  much  straitened 
to  do  it  j  but  I  long  to  be  with  you  now  the  business  is  deter- 
mined. I  shall  waive  my  needful  journey  into  Yorkshire  till  I 
see  you  a  little  settled,  as  preferring  the  interest  of  Christ  before 
relationals  or  personals.  Thank  brother  Teague  for  his  letter ;  his 
daughter  was  with  me,  and  I  have  promised  her  to  take  care  of 
her,  and  provide  her  room  with  us,  and  do  for  her  as  carefully  as 
if  she  were  my  own  child.  My  kind  love  to  all  friends  as  if 
named.  I  would  most  gladly  have  been  there  at  the  fair,  but  I 
cannot  possibly  attain  it.  Many  here  think  I  make  too  much 
haste  from  London,  and  break  off  too  abruptly  from  the  congre- 
gation ;  but  I  must  break  away  both  from  them  and  my  friends 
in  London,  for  to  take  formal  leave  would  be  sadly  and  trouble- 
some, and  therefore  I  must  incur  a  great  deal  of  censure. 
My  kind  love  to  sister  Terrill,  brethren  Ellis,  King,  White, 
Dickason,  &c. 

I  am  yours, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 

Blood  and  Parrot  are  at  full  liberty,  and,  some  say,  without 
prejudice  to  any  honest  man  done  or  to  be  done.6 

and  eldest  daughter  of  the  Protector.  member  of  the  baptist  church  in  Devon- 

"  He  obtained  favour  after  the  Restora-  shire  Square.     She  was  a  granddaughter 

tion,  and  lived  privately,  for  the  most  of  Mr.  Kiffin. — Records,  MS.  A.] 

part,  at  Stoke  Newington,  where  he  died  a  [The  infamous  villain,  robber,  and 

soon  after  the  Revolution."     He  suf-  assassin,  Blood,  was  not  only  pardoned 

fered   much   for  his  nonconformity  by  after  his  attempt  to  steal  the  crown  and 

fines.     A  close  intimacy  subsisted  be-  regalia  from  the  tower,  but  land  of  the 

tween  him  and  Dr.  Owen. — Orme's  Life  value  of  £500  a  year  was  settled  upon 

of  Owen,  p.  365.     The  widow  of  Henry  him.      Parrot    was    an    accomplice. — 

Cromwell    was  likewise  at  this  time  a  Unpin,  ii.  661.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  157 

Letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle.     No.  13. 

These  for  Mr.  Ten-ill,  Bristol. 

28th  [or  29th]  July,  1671. 

My  dear  Brother, — These  are  only  to  acquaint  you  that  I 
purpose  to  set  forward  on  second  day  next,  which  would  be  July 
31st,  according  to  my  first  resolution.  I  am  in  a  great  hurry, 
and  therefore  cannot  enlarge.  I  never  met  with  so  much  difficulty 
in  parting  from  a  place.  It  will  be  fifth  day  of  the  week  before 
I  get  to  Bristol,  for  my  wife's  condition  is  such,  that  it  will  be  too 
far  to  travel  from  Marlborough  to  Bristol  in  one  day,  especially 
the  way  being  so  rough  will  be  incommodious  to  her.  My  dear 
love  to  all  friends.  Pray  hard  for  me  that  God  would  make  my 
way  prosperous,  and  bring  with  the  gospel  blessing  a  full  blessing. 
I  hear  of  a  letter  which  came  to  you  from  a  part  of  our  congre- 
gation, but  I  never  saw  it,  nor  do  I  know  what  is  in  it ;  but  I 
suppose  there  will  be  no  great  occasion  for  a  speedy  answer 
before  I  come.     The  Lord  be  with  you. 

I  am  your  faithful  brother, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 

But 7  we  understand  since,  the  reason  why  he  [Mr.  Hard- 
castle] would  not  promise  was,  because  he  had  not  given  his 
denial  to  the  church  in  London,  and  so  was  not  regularly 
clear  from  them,  therefore  he  would  not  promise.  But  his 
heart  was  so  altered  by  the  Lord,  that,  when  he  came  to 
London,  he  gave  the  church  there  a  negative  answer  to  their 
motion  of  choosing  him  to  office  with  them,  and  then  sent  us 
word  he  would  come  to  us ;  but  wished  us  to  write  to  the 
said  church  in  London,  to  grant  him  a  letter  to  us  of  com- 
mendation or  dismission  from  them ;    which  we  did.      But 

7  [The  narrative  in  the  church  book,       the  above  series  of  letters,  which  it  was 
here  resumed,  it  will  be  seen  alludes  to       thought  best  not  to  interrupt.] 
several  of  the  facts  already  presented  in 


158  THE    RECORDS 

they  were  so  greatly  offended  and  troubled  with  us,  that 
they  would  not  grant  him  any  letter,  but  still  charged  us 
with  sin  for  so  doing,  to  take  him  from  them  ;  and  to  this 
day,  which  is  near  five  years,  we  cannot  get  any  letter  of 
dismission  from  them.  Now,  because  that  we  understood  our 
aforesaid  call  preceded  his  denial  to  them,  we,  therefore, 
when  he  came  down  again  to  us,  we  gave  him  a  new  call, 
upon  the  eighth  day  of  the  sixth  month  [August]  following, 
anno  1671,  and  signing  it  as  before  at  a  church-meeting,  then 
[held]  for  a  day  of  prayer,  and  commending  him,  the  said 
Mr.  Hardcastle,  to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  upon  trial  for  the 
office  of  a  pastor  to  this  congregation,  signing  it  as  before, 
for  order  sake,  and  to  silence  them,  the  church  in  London, 
for  peace  sake  on  our  part  to  them.  For  the  case  of  this 
church,  or  any  other,  without  a  pastor,  being  as  if  a  virgin 
was  going  to  marry  a  man  that  was  in  league  with,  and  not 
clear  from,  another  woman,  which  ought  to  be,  before  he 
contract  upon  liking  with  any  other. 

Thus,  through  the  grace  and  goodness  of  our  Lord  Jesus* 
our  great  Shepherd,  that  takes  care  of  his  church  universal,  and 
so  of  every  garden  or  church  of  his  individual,  having  obtained 
the  mercy  to  have  another  pastor  over  us,  under  him,  upon 
trial,  the  church  considered  of  getting  a  public  meeting-place 
again  for  that  at  the  Whitson  Court,  we  being,  as  aforesaid,8 
driven  out.  It  was  in  those  troubles  let  out  for  a  warehouse 
again,  so  we  could  not  have  it.  Whereupon  we  took  the 
meeting-house  at  the  lower  end  of  Broadmead,  where  the 
heretics  called  quakers  had  formerly  used  to  meet ;  it  being 
four  great  rooms  made  into  one  square  room,  about  sixteen 
yards  long,  and  fifteen  yards  broad,  which  we  took  the  12th 
day  of  the  sixth  month,  and  fitted  it  up  against  the  20th  day 
of  the  said  sixth  month,  August,  anno  1671,  which  was  the 

8  [See  before,  p.  106.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  159 

first  Lord's  day  we  met  in  it;  where,  through  the  Lord's 
help,  we  have  remained  ever  since ;  now  towards  five  years 
[hath]  the  church  held  forth  the  gospel  to  poor  sinners 
there.9 

But  at  our  first  entrance,  appearing  so  public  again,  we 
had  some  trouble  by  many  threats;  but  our  new  pastor, 
being  a  man  of  great  courage  in  the  Lord,  was  not  moved. 
Then  the  mayor  and  council,  upon  some  great  and  urgent 
complaints  for  our  so  meeting,  before  a  lord  of  the  land  from 
London,  then  here,  debated  to  send  for  our  pastor,  Mr. 
Hardcastle,  but  then  it  was  waived,  and  only  they  determined 
to  send  for  brother  Terrill  before  the  mayor ;  who,  after  the 
serjeant  came  for  him,  went  to  the  mayor,  who  was  then 
Alderman  Knight,  of  the  sugar-house,  whom  God  had 
changed,  and  made  very  moderate  towards  us,  so  that  he 
favoured  us,  and  had  connived  at  us  all  the  year  before. 
But  now,  through  the  complaints,  as  we  after  understood,  of 
one  old  Mr.  Wright,  that  had  been  sheriff,  that  said  he  could 
hear  us  sing  psalms  from  our  meeting-place,  at  his  house  in 
Hallier's  Lane ;  who,  with  some  other,  like  Tobijah  and  San- 
ballat,  forward  to  prosecute  us^  endeavoured  our  disturbance. 
But  brother  Terrill  gave  the  mayor's  worship  thanks  that, 
through  his  wisdom  and  moderation,  we  had  most  of  his  time 
been  so  quiet,  and  prayed  his  worship  to  continue  such  his 
favour  the  remainder  of  his  time,  which  was  so  near  expired ; 
knowing  his  worship  had  wisdom  enough  to  know  how  to 
avoid  and  waive  the  complaints  of  such  persons  that  would 
be  troublesome  for  the  rest  of  his  year.  And  so  the  mayor 
dismissed  brother  Terrill,  and  the  Lord  gave  us  rest.  Thus 
the  Lord  favoured  us  with  a  peaceable  beginning  for  our  new 
pastor  and  new  meeting-place. 

Thus  God  having  graciously  given  us  a  new  pastor,  the 

9  [This  is  the  site  of  the  present  chapel.  Mr.  Terrill  wrote  this  part  of  his 
narrative  in  1676.] 


160  THE    RECORDS 

church,  before  he  came  down  from  London  the  second  time 
(which  should  have  been  noted  the  side  before),  after  several 
debates  of  the  duty  of  a  church  towards  a  pastor,  not  only 
for  their  own  good  to  call  him,  but  to  take  care  that  he  may 
have  a  comfortable  subsistence  yearly  coming  in,  for  the 
maintenance  of  him  and  his  family,  it  was  concluded  that  less 
than  eighty  pounds  per  annum  would  not  for  him  comfort- 
ably defray  all  charges,  according  to  his  duty,  Titus  i.  7,  8, 
and  as  things  were  now  in  the  city  ;  and  that  it  lay  upon  the 
church  to  take  care  about  those  carnal  things,  and  he  about 
spiritual  things. 

But  then  it  was  considered  how  to  raise  the  said  sum,  to 
discharge  our  duty.  Some,  weakly,  would  have  it  left  alone 
to  the  liberty  of  every  person,  to  give  him  as  they  could,  and 
when  their  minds  were  disposed ;  and  that  they  judged  to  be 
the  gospel  way.  But  the  rest  of  the  members  were  other- 
wise minded,  and  they  judged  the  gospel  way  was  a  way 
of  regularity,  as  well  as  of  liberty;  which  could  not  be  to 
leave  a  minister's  mind  in  bondage,  every  now  and  then,  not 
knowing  where  to  have  food.  Therefore,  [they]  said,  it  was 
rational  and  scriptural  for  every  one  to  engage  what  they 
would  do  freely  and  yearly;  that  so  we  might  know  our 
duty,  in  some  measure,  was  performed,— that  he  had  so  much 
as  reasonably  might  support  him ;  that  he  might  not  be  to 
seek  sometimes  for  his  bread,  and  then  must  be  forced  to  beg 
or  borrow,  and  not  know  when  or  how  to  pay  it  again. 
Wherefore  it  was  proved  from  scripture,  that  though  what- 
ever any  one  did  do  they  must  do  it  freely,  like  the  gospel, 
and  not  [be]  compelled,  but  from  force  of  reason  and  con- 
scious of  duty,  yet  they  must  do  every  one  according  to  his 
ability,  somewhat  constantly  or  duly,  as  well  as  freely. 

From  the  evangelical  rule  of  record,  1  Cor.  ix.  7 — 14, 
God  hath  ordained,  that  they  which  preach  the  gospel  should  live 
of  the  gospel ;  as  he  that  feeds  the  flock  should  eat  the  milk 


A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  161 

of  the  flock.  So  that  this,  of  constantly  or  yearly  communicat- 
ing to  the  maintenance  of  a  pastor  or  minister,  is  as  eminent 
an  ordinance  of  God  as  any  other  ordinance  whatsoever  in  the 
gospel ;  and  that  every  one  ought  to  make  as  much  conscience 
in  the  performance  thereof  as  any  other.  And,  moreover,  it 
was  proved,  that  every  one  should  tie  himself  yearly  to  pay 
to  the  service  of  the  house  of  God ;  having  not  only  the 
reason  of  the  former  scripture,  with  Gal.  vi.  6,  and  divers 
others  in  the  gospel,  but  also  that  plain  precedent  that 
the  church  of  God  that  then  was  did  so  do,  in  Neh.  x.  32 ; 
where  it  is  said,  They  made  ordinances  to  charge  themselves 
yearly  with  the  third  -part  of  a  shekel  for  the  service  of  the  house 
of  our  God. 

This  duty  being  proved  so  plainly,  that  it  must  be  done 
heartily,  freely,  and  yearly,  we  did  likewise  make  by  agree- 
ment an  ordinance  or  writing  what  they  would  do  certainly. 
And  if  God  did  bless  any  one  with  more  ability,  this  should 
not  hinder  them  from  handing  what  they  would  more,  by 
themselves,  to  the  pastor  privately,  so  not  to  be  seen  of  men ; 
but  the  brethren  and  elders  must  know  that  every  one  doth 
their  duty,  and  that  there  be  a  competency.  Therefore,  that 
every  one  of  us  should  subscribe  what  he  or  she  would  give, 
freely  and  yearly,  towards  the  pastor's  maintenance,  Which 
writing  or  ordinance,  a  copy  thereof  is  as  follows : — 

We,  whose  names  are  underwritten,  being,  through  rich  grace 
and  infinite  love,  called  out  of  darkness  into  the  marvellous  light 
of  the  Lord,  and  into  gospel  order,  according  to  the  commands  of 
our  only  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  in  2  Cor.  vi.  17,  18, 
Matt,  xviii.  18,  19,  and  Heb.  x.  23—25  ;  and  thus  of  the  Lord's 
own  magnified  mercy  and  good  will,  chosen  out,  and  set  forth  in  the 
world,  to  be  one  of  his  churches,  or  a  candlestick  of  the  Lord's, 
Rev.  i.  20 ;  our  duty  being  to  have  a  candle  or  minister  therein, 
Luke  viii.  16,  Acts  xiv.  23,  that  we  may  hold  forth  a  light  to  the 
world,  as  well  as  for  our  own  edification  and  privilege,  left  us  by 

M 


162  THE    RECORDS 

our  Lord  at  his  ascension,  Eph.  iv.  8,  11 :  therefore,  according  to 
our  duty,  1  Cor.  ix.  7 — 14,  and  according  to  the  example  of  the 
church  of  God  of  old,  recorded  in  Neh.  x.  32,  for  the  service  of 
the  house  of  our  God,  we  have  considered,  also  consented  and 
agreed,  to  charge  ourselves  to  pay  yearly  these  our  several  volun- 
tary and  free  subscriptions,  for  the  comfortable  maintaining  of  a 
pastor  for  this  congregation ;  and  it  is  concluded  upon,  that  we 
will  pay  what  we  have  severally  engaged  by  equal  proportion 
quarterly.  This  being  the  unanimous  act  and  order  of  this 
church  in  their  solemn  assembly ;  ratified  and  confirmed  this 
thirteenth  day  of  the  fourth  month,  anno  Christi  1671. 1 

To  this  the  members,  upon  the  said  day  the  ordinance  is 
dated,  they  subscribed,  every  one  according  to  their  ability, 
what  they  would  give  yearly.  And  the  manner  we  took  for 
subscribing,  that  every  one  might  act  freely  and  privately, 
was  thus : — When  the  church  was  come  together  for  prayer, 
and  in  the  close  of  the  day  for  settling  of  this  business,  being 
all  together  in  one  room,  we  ordered  one  of  the  elders,  with 
another  grave  brother,  to  go  into  another  room  of  the  house 
with  the  said  writing ;  and  the  other  elder  that  stayed  in  the 
meeting  called  over  the  names  of  the  church,  and  sent  them 
in,  one  by  one,  into  that  room  where  the  said  elder  and 
brother  were,  for  to  write  down  what  they  did,  with  them 
privately  and  freely,  offer  and  promise,  or  charge  themselves 
withal,  to  give  yearly,  and  by  them  to  be  brought  in 
quarterly  to  one  of  the  brethren  appointed  on  purpose,  as 
treasurer,  to  take  care  of  that  business ;  and  by  him,  with  the 
elders,  to  be  delivered,  £20  each  quarter,  to  the  said  pastor, 
Mr.  Hardcastle.  And  that  it  might  be  so  duly  paid,  it  was 
ordered  that  every  person  bring  in  their  quarterage  a  month 

1  [The  paper  containing  the  subscrip-  NoteE.     The  support  essentially  needed 
tions,  in  Mr.  Terrill's  handwriting,  was  for  the  pastor,  was  sought  for  and  sup- 
kept  private  ;  but  is  yet  preserved,  and  plied  by  the  church  only.] 
copied  in  the  Addenda  to  this  volume, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  163 

before  every  usual  quarter  day  of  the  year.  And  so  they  all 
that  could  give  came  one  after  another  into  the  said  room, 
and  told  what  they  were  of  themselves  free  to  pay,  and  then 
straightway  returned  out  of  the  room  into  the  meeting 
again. 

Now  to  raise  this  said  sum  yearly,  there  were  but  about 
fifty  persons  that  could  give  anything,  though  there  were  as 
many  members  again ;  but  some  had  wives  in  the  church, 
some  had  children,  and  divers  poor  that  made  up  the  number. 
Yet  it  pleased  the  Lord  to  stir  up  their  hearts  to  raise  the 
said  sum  of  £80  per  annum ;  for  some  servants  subscribed 
ten  shillings  per  year,  other  servants  six  shillings ;  other 
members,  mean  in  the  world,  but  rich  in  grace,  gave  ten 
shillings,  others  twenty  shillings,  some  thirty  shillings,  some 
others  forty  shillings,  some  fifty  shillings,  some  three  pounds, 
some  four  pounds  per  annum,  one  Rye  pounds,  and  another 
six  pounds  per  annum. 

Of  those  that  subscribed  to  the  pastor's  maintenance  there 
is  to  be  observed  the  grace  of  God  in  some.  One  aged 
brother,  named  Henry  Pierce,  a  very  mean  poor  man  to 
appearance,  in  person  and  habit,  and  by  profession  or  trade 
but  a  journeyman  shoemaker,  that  lived  up  in  a  cock-loft ; 
yet  his  heart  was  so  enlarged  for  and  by  the  Lord,  that  he 
would  subscribe,  and  did  pay,  not  less  than  twenty  shillings 
per  annum.  And  one  other  member,  a  sister,  named  Mar- 
garet AVebb,  that  had  two  children  to  maintain,  that  lived 
very  mean,  and  took  great  care  to  carry  the  world  about,  to 
live  therein  honestly  towards  all,  and  laboured  very  hard  so 
to  do ;  yet  she  would  subscribe  towards  the  carrying  on  of 
the  gospel,  and  did  pay  forty  shillings  per  year.  Which 
examples  did  provoke,  if  not  shame  many  others.2 

Brother  Thomas  Child  was  proposed  the  23rd  day  of  the 

2  [The  entire  sum  subscribed  was  £89   Is.] 

M    2 


164  THE    RECORDS 

fifth  month,  1671  ;  spoken  with  the  20th  day  of  the  sixth 
month  following;  before  the  whole  church  he  then  declared 
the  work  of  regeneration  upon  his  soul,  at  our  public  meet- 
ing-place in  Broadmead,  the  first  day  we  met  there,  with 
which  his  declaration  the  church  was  satisfied.  Thereupon, 
the  eighth  of  the  seventh  month,  he  was  baptized;  and  at 
breaking  of  bread  he  was  admitted  a  member  of  this  congre- 
gation, upon  the  10th  day  of  the  seventh  month,  anno  1671. 

Upon  the  20th  day  of  the  sixth  month,  anno  1671,  this 
congregation  signed  a  second  call  to  Mr.  Thomas  Hardcastle, 
worded  as  the  former,  to  be  pastor  to  this  church.3 

Brother  John  Ford,  tanner,  sister  Ford  his  wife,  brother 
Henry  Fieldhurst,  with  sister  Messenger,  and  sister  Bowles, 
having  before  been  proposed  and  spoken  with,  before  the 
whole  congregation  gave  their  declaration ;  they  were,  the 
13th  day  of  the  eight  month,  baptized;  and  those,  with  sister 
Hill,  they  were  all  six  admitted  members  of  this  congrega- 
tion, upon  the  15th  day  of  the  eighth  month,  anno  Domini 
1671. 

Twenty-ninth  of  eighth  month,  sister  Margery  Simmonds, 
a  maid,  deceased,  about  eighty-three  years  of  age,  and  left 
by  will  to  the  congregation  five  pounds,  for  a  stock  to  be 
begun. 

Sister  Murray  having  formerly  been  proposed  and  spoken 
with,  and  satisfaction  received  by  the  church,  she  was  bap- 
tized in  the  river,  as  all  others  arc,  into  the  name  of  the 
Father,  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  upon  the  fifth  day 
of  the  eleventh   month,   anno  1671  ;    and  upon  seventh  of 

3  [On  the  nth  of  October  Mr.  Hard-  out,  ns  if  for  publication,  by  some  one 

castle  commenced  a  series  of  expositions  who  heard  them,  not  improbably  from 

on    the   Assembly's    Catechism,   which  the    short-hand    notes   of    Mr.   Terrill# 

were  continued  at  intervals  of  a  week  or  Theee  excellent  and  valuable  catecheti- 

fortnight,  till  the  6th  of  October  in  the  cal  lectures,  addressed  to  the  young,  are 

year  following.     They  were  thirty-five  preserved  in  the  library  of  the  Bristol 

in  number,  and  were  carefully  written  Academy.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  165 

said  month,  she.  with  sistei   uwilliain,  who  before  was  also 
spoken  with,,  and  :  tog   ther  admitted  members 

of  this  congregation,  at  breaking  bread  on  the  said  seventh 
[day]  of  eleventh  month.  1671  [i.  e.  Jam:  "." 

v  -:er  Lane,  now  Ford.,  and  sister  Clark,  having  been  pro- 
posed formerly,  declared  the  work  of  the  Lord  upon  their 
s  :     rheir  conversion,  on  the  20th  of  the  twelfth  month. 
The   church   having   received  :ion.    those    two   with 

sister  Hill,  who  was  added  about  four  months  before,  were 
_  by  of  twelfth  month.    I    "1-l.  and 

upon   the   25th  day  following,   antei  .  r   Ford,    with 

r  Clark,  were  admitted  meml 

Avyo 

Brc  i   the   17th  of  the  first  month 

proposed;  on  the  25th  day.  di:  ml  of  the 

change  upon  hie  -  how  he  came  to  be  convinced  of 

the  damnable  principlee     :  the  quakers.  having  bee 
them  many  years.     He  wt  id   sister  .1,  an 

ancient  meml  -  red  the  12th  day  of  the  second  month, 

and  added  a  member  upon  the   14th  of  said  second  month. 
April,  anno  Domini  1 6 '  _ 

Sistei  P  pe,        iged  .  and  professor  with  our  friends 

called  inded  to  join  with  the  church, 

third  of  the  r.  ;x>ken  with  before  the 

whole  church,  the  eleventh,  ditto  :  they  receiving  satisfaction 

communion,  she  was  baptized  the    _ 

i  a  member  the  10th 
day  of  the  third  month  ..  anno  1672. 

Upon  the  seventh  :hird   month.    1672, 

g  and  prayer,  in  ordei  g  the 

suppc  . 
bers  belonging  tothii  congregation 


166  THE    RECORDS 

were  removed  to  remote  habitations ;  some  in  Ireland,  some 
in  Nevis  Island,  some  to  London,  some  to  the  west  countries 
of  England,  and  other  parts.  It  was  ordered  that  a  general 
letter  should  be  writ,  and  a  copy  thereof  signed  by  the 
brethren  in  the  name  of  the  whole,  and  so  a  letter  sent  to 
every  one  of  those  scattered  members,  to  inquire  into  the 
state  of  their  souls,  and  to  know  whether  they  did  keep  close 
to  their  duty  in  walking  with  some  church,  and  with  whom  ? 
that  so  if  they  had  not,  nor  will  not  hearken  to  exhortation 
therein,  that  they  should  be  cast  out  of  this  church.  And, 
accordingly,  there  were  letters  sent  to  each,  and  we  had 
answers  from  them. 

A  general  letter  to  absent  members,  after  Mr.  Hardcastle  came  to  us. 

From  a  church  of  Christ  in  Bristol,  formerly  walking  with  our 
deceased  teacher  Mr.  Ewins,  and  now  walking  with  our  beloved 
brother  and  pastor,  Mr.  Thomas  Hardcastle,  to  our 

Dearly  beloved  (brother  or  sister)  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
— All  grace  and  peace  be  multiplied  to  you  abundantly,  through 
the  riches  of  grace  held  forth  in  the  gospel  and  word  of  truth. 
Beloved,  the  Lord  having  made  a  breach  upon  us,  by  taking  to 
himself  above  three  years'  since  our  honoured  brother  Ewins,  his 
faithful  servant,  that  was  so  eminent  for  self-denial,  patience, 
holiness,  and  humility,  with  unwearied,  great,  and  constant 
labours  for  near  twenty  years  with  us,  the  last  ten  years  of  which 
he  endured  from  without  frequent  imprisonments,  one  whereof 
lasted  a  whole  year,  wanting  but  one  week.  In  the  mean  season, 
the  Lord  helped  us  in  our  measure  to  keep  to  our  duty  in  assem- 
bling, through  not  a  few  difficulties,  to  attend  upon  the  Lord,  in 
the  exercise  of  those  mean  gifts  amongst  us  that  were  at  any  time 
left  us  and  not  imprisoned,  or  when  they  were  released  from 
thence ;  and  thus,  through  his  grace  and  strength,  we  remain  to 
this  day  a  congregation.  Oh,  that  we  may  be  to  his  eternal 
praise,  your  comfort  and  ours,  in  the  clay  of  his  appearing,  when 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  167 

we  must  stand  before  the  Son  of  man  to  give  our  account,  that  it 
may  be  with  joy,  and  not  with  grief. 

And  further,  we  thought  good  to  signify  to  you  the  goodness  of 
the  Lord,  though  we  are  exceeding  unworthy ;  yet  he  hath  not 
forsaken  us,  but  hath  still  owned  us,  and  stood  by  us,  as  evidently 
has  been  seen,  in  the  several  vicissitudes  of  his  providence 
towards  us,  and  in  his  gracious  making  up  our  breach,  and  sup- 
plying our  great  loss  by  giving  us  another  teacher,  that  honoured 
and  learned  minister  from  London  abovenamed.  And  we  trust 
he  is  a  pastor  after  God's  own  heart,  that  doth  feed  us  with  know- 
ledge and  understanding,  according  to  his  promise,  Jer.  iii.  15. 
And  though  by  death  we  have  lost  divers  members,  yet  through 
his  grace,  according  to  his  promise,  we  do  multiply  and  increase 
in  number.  Oh,  that  it  may  be  also  in  the  grace  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ !  that  we  may  no  more  say,  The  ark  of  the  covenant 
[Ps.  1. 16]  :  that  is,  rest  in  privileges,  but  amend  our  ways  and  our 
doings,  and  not  cry,  The  temple  of  the  Lord,  the  temple  of  the 
Lord,  and  be  at  ease  in  Zion,  and  so  sinners  therein,  Amos.  vi.  1, 
Jer.  xxxiii.  14 ;  but  that  we  may  be  worshippers  who  rejoice  in 
Christ  Jesus ,  and  have  no  confidence  in  the  flesh,  Phil.  iii.  3 ;  not 
loving  our  pleasures,  having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  denying  the 
power  thereof  as  2  Tim.  iii.  5.  Now,  that  we  may  not  be  such 
chaff  to  be  burnt,  but  true  wheat,  and  vessels  meet  for  the  Lord's 
use,  and  so  to  continue  to  the  end,  let  us  have  your  prayers. 

And,  beloved,  these  are  also  to  acquaint  you,  that  this  church 
is  taking  an  account  of  all  her  absent  members,  that  are  distant 
from  her  by  habitation,  in  discharge  of  her  duty,  and  in  faithful- 
ness to  their  souls. 

First,  Therefore,  forasmuch  as  we  have  not,  for  a  long  time, 
heard  from  you,  that  is,  no  letter  to  the  church, 

1.  We  first  desire  to  know  how  it  is  with  you.  And  to  that  end, 
desire  that  you  would  send  an  account  of  your  state  to  the  church, 
that  is,  of  the  condition  Providence  hath  brought  you  into,  as  to 
the  inward  and  outward  man. 

2.  In  respect  of  gospel  order,  we  desire  to  know  with  whom 
you  walk  in  church  fellowship,   as  to  the  participation  of  the 


168  THE    RECORDS 

sealing  ordinances  our  Lord  Jesus  hath  left  as  privileges  to  his 
saints,  as  well  as  their  duty  to  wait  upon  him  till  he  come. 

3.  By  reason  we  remember  not  whether  you  had  any  letter  of 
recommendation  from  us,  we  desire  to  know  whether  you  had  any 
such  letter,  and  to  whom,  and  the  date  thereof. 

Secondly,  To  the  discharge  of  our  duty  to  you,  in  regard  you 
were  first  planted  into  this  church,  as  a  sign  and  seal  of  your 
giving  up  yourselves  to  Christ :  and  thereby  you  made  a  profes- 
sion, in  the  presence  of  God  the  Father,  and  Christ  Jesus  the  Son, 
our  alone  Saviour  and  Redeemer,  and  in  the  presence  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  angels,  and  men  (some  of  his  professed  saints  and  people), 
that  you  had  renounced  Satan  and  all  his  works,  and  that  you 
were  born  again  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  crucified,  dead,  and 
buried  with  Christ,  and  risen  also  with  him  to  live,  not  after  the 
flesh,  but  after  the  spirit ;  and  not  to  walk  as  other  Gentiles  wralk, 
in  the  vanity  of  their  minds,  but  in  newness  of  spirit ;  to  follow 
the  Lamb  wheresoever  he  goes : — 

1.  We  say,  you  thus  having  implicitly  professed,  by  your  join- 
ing, with  whatsoever  else  is  implied  in  the  command  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  recorded  in  the  holy  scriptures,  of  which  this  church 
is  your  witness,  and  will  be  a  testimony  for  or  against  you  in  the 
day  of  our  Lord,  and  we,  as  well  as  you,  being  bound  to  watch  one 
over  another  : — in  pursuance  of  which  duty,  we,  taking  it  into  con- 
sideration, do,  in  love  and  tenderness  to  your  eternal  state,  warn 
and  beseech  you  in  the  Lord,  that  you  keep  yourselves  from  the 
pollutions  and  sins  of  the  time  and  generation  in  which  you  live  , 
that  you  watch  and  keep  your  garments,  Rev.  xvi.  15,  not  only 
from  those  sins  which  ought  not  to  be  named  among  saints,  and 
are'reigning  jsins  at  this  day,  for  which  we  ought  to  mourn  and 
weep  before  the  Lord,  but,  namely,  [from]  the  pride,  covetous- 
ness,  drunkenness,  uncleanness,  profaneness,  and  superstition,  &c, 
of  the  time  wc  live  in,  with  the  vain  modes  of  apparel  and 
fashions  of  the  world.  Be  not  found  in  them ;  but  deny  your- 
selves, and  cross  your  humour  after  those  things  that  adorn  not 
the  soul,  1  Pet.  i.  14,  15,  not  fashioning  yourselves  according  to 
the  fanner  fusts  in  your  ignorance,  1   Pet.  iii.  3-  5. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  169 

2.  Furthermore,  we  beseech  you,  dear  (brother  or  sister),  and 
exhort  you  by  the  Lord  Jesus,  that  as  you  have  received  how  you 
ought  to  walk  and  to  please  God,  so  you  would  abound  more  and 
more ;  that  you  may  know  how  to  possess  your  vessel  in  sanctifica- 
tion  and  honour,  not  as  the  Gentiles  who  know  not  God.  He, 
therefore,  that  despiseth,  despiseth  not  man,  but  God;  as  saith 
the  apostle,  1  Thess.  iv.  1 — 8. 

3.  To  read  often,  or  meditate  daily  in  the  holy  scriptures, 
especially  in  these  erring  days  ;  and  keep  close  to  it  as  the  stand- 
ing rule  that  God  hath  given  to  all  generations,  and  so  to  us,  to 
regulate  ourselves  by  in  our  general  and  in  our  special  or  particu- 
lar callings,  which  are  able  to  make  you  wise  unto  salvation, 
through  faith  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus,  2  Tim.  iii.  15  ;  which 
sacred  writings  are  the  cabinet  of  exceeding  great  and  precious 
promises  of  peace,  and  the  storehouses  for  examples  of  God's 
severity  and  mercy.  For  whatsoever  things  were  written  afore- 
time were  written  for  our  learning,  that  we,  through  patience  and 
comfort  of  the  scripture,  might  have  hope,  Rom.  xv.  4,  1  Cor.  x. 
6 — 12,  Isa.  viii.  20,  and  Luke  xvi.  29. 

4.  To  take  heed  you  do  not  forsake  the  assembling  yourselves 
together  with  those  that  love  the  Lord,  Heb.  x.  25  ;  and  to  keep 
a  conscientious,  strict  observation  of  the  Lord's  day,  which 
carries  with  it  many  blessings,  being  under  many  promises  ;  and 
look  upon  that  day  as  not  yours,  but  the  Lord's  in  a  [more] 
peculiar  manner  than  the  other  six  days,  because  for  a  peculiar 
end  the  Lord  hath  reserved  one  day  out  of  seven,  that  you  may 
more  especially  attend  upon  him  therein,  and  not  on  the  world  or 
its  pleasures,  Acts  xx.  7,  Isa.  v.  8,  15. 

5.  To  take  heed  of  an  indifferency  of  spirit,  in  neglecting  or 
slighting  the  instituted  ordinances  of  Christ,  Rev.  ii.  24,  25,  lest 
you  should  thereby  judge  yourselves  unworthy  of  eternal  life, 
Acts.  xiii.  46.  For  the  Lord  doth  seal  redemption  and  remission 
to  his  living  stones  in  those  ordinances,  2  Cor.  i.  19,  22,  Eph.  i. 
13,  iv.  30,  Matt.  xxvi.  28 ;  and  they  are  appointed  to  quicken  us 
when  our  faith  is  dying,  and  our  hope  decaying,  Ps.  cxix.  37, 
Ixxxv.  8,  13,  and  to  give  consolation  when  we  are  at  the  door  of 


170  THE    RECORDS 

desperation,  Job  xxii.  21,  29,  Jonah  ii.  4,  7 — 9.  If  you  attend 
at  all  wisdom's  posts,  and  wait  at  all  her  gates,  Prov.  viii.  2,  32 
to  the  end,  and  be  found  in  every  watch,  for  we  know  not  at 
what  gate,  or  at  what  watch,  the  Lord  will  come,  and  seal  or 
speak  peace  to  our  souls,  Matt.  xxv.  13. 

6.  To  take  heed  of  omitting  private  and  family  duties ;  as 
closet  and  family  prayer,  examination  of  ourselves  and  family, 
whether  they  be  in  the  faith  or  not,  2  Cor.  xiii.  5  ;  bringing  up 
such  under  you  in  the  nurture  and  admonition  of  the  Lord,  Eph. 
vi.  4 ;  manifesting  yourselves  to  be  the  children  of  Abraham,  the 
father  of  the  faithful,  by  doing  the  deeds  of  Abraham,  Gen.  xviii. 
19.  Private  walking  with  God,  and  heart-searching,  keep  up 
life  and  heat  in  the  soul.  Family  duties  declare  a  designation  of 
us  and  ours  to  God,  with  a  separation  from,  and  a  witness  to  the 
world  in  our  habitations,  as  well  as  by  our  profession,  that  in  sin- 
cerity, with  Joshua,  we  may  say,  /  and  my  house  will  serve  the 
Lord,  Josh.  xxiv.  15. 

7.  To  beware  of  the  two  grand  snares  of  this  life,  those  rocks 
upon  which  most  souls  do  split ;  that  is,  that  their  hearts  be  not 
overcharged  with  the  pleasures  and  cares  of  this  life,  and  so  that 
notable  day  of  the  Lord  come  upon  you  unawares,  Luke  xxi. 
34,  36,  either  by  sudden  affliction,  sickness,  or  death ;  and  so  the 
lamp  of  profession  being  not  trimmed  with  the  graces  that  apper- 
tain to  it,  you  come  short  of  salvation  through  unbelief,  not 
watching  and  keeping  in  exercise  the  graces  suitable  to  each  con- 
dition. 1.  In  a  state  of  prosperity,  humility  :  with  liberality  and 
holy  fear.  2.  In  adversity,  content :  with  diligence  in  business, 
and  fervency  of  spirit,  from  a  sight  of  invisible  glory  and  treasure 
in  heaven. 

8.  To  be  willing  patiently  to  take  up  the  cross  for  Christ ; 
enduring  affliction,  whether  reproach  or  otherwise  ;  remembering 
Luke  vi.  26,  woe  unto  you  when  the  world  or  wicked  men  speak 
well  of  you  ;  for  remember  2  Tim.  iii.  12,  they  that  will  live  godly 
in  Christ  Jesus  shall  suffer  "persecution.  Therefore,  be  followers 
of  those  who  through  faith  and  patience  inherit  and  overcome, 
Heb.  vi.  12;  and  stand  fast,  striving  in  the  faith  of  the  gospel; 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  171 

and  in  nothing  terrified  by  your  adversaries,  which  to  them  is  an 
evident  token  of  perdition,  but  to  you  of  salvation,  Phil.  i.  28, 
2  Thess.  i.  4,  5.  Wait  upon  the  Lord,  and  keep  his  way,  Ps. 
xxxvii.  34 ;  and  be  immovable,  always  abounding  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord  until  your  change  come,  knowing  your  labour  shall  not 
be  in  vain  in  the  Lord,  1  Cor.  xv.  to  the  last. 

9.  To  beware  of  false  doctrines  and  hypocrisy,  Matt.  xvi.  6, 
11,  12,  Luke  xii.  1,  Acts  xxiii.  Take  heed  of  seeming  to  be 
godly  before  or  with  sincere  professors,  but  are  not  so  in  secret,  in 
your  families  and  conversation  ;  for  there  hypocrites  can  allow 
their  corruptions  to  reign,  and  among  bad  company  can  be  like 
them  vile  or  vain,  Ps.  cxxv.  4, 5,  Matt,  xxiii.  29.  Oh,  labour  to  be 
good  and  sincere  rather  than  seem  to  be  so,  Ps.  xxxix.  1 ;  that 
you  may  answer  the  end  of  God  in  your  holy  vocation,  to  be 
lights  in  the  world,  Matt.  v.  16,  Luke  v.  8,  11  ;  and  that  you 
may  be  found  witnesses  for  God  in  the  place  or  among  the  people 
where  you  dwell,  Rev.  xi.  3,  11,  Luke  xxi.  13. 

10.  Lastly,  watch  against  backsliclings,  and  the  beginnings 
thereof;  as  deadness  in  duties,  a  superficial  outside  performance 
thereof,  in  private  or  public  attendance  upon  God,  and  content 
therein;  as  indiiferency  of  spirit  toward  the  things  of  God,  or 
not  so  much  care  about  them  as  for  the  things  of  this  life. 
Thereby  growing  cold,  you  draw  back,  and  so  come  under  the 
sentence  written  Luke  ix.  last ;  that  having  put  the  hand  to  the 
plough,  and  looking  back,  should  not  be  fit  for  the  kingdom  of 
God.  For  it  had  been  better  for  you  not  to  have  known  the  way 
of  righteousness,  than,  after  you  have  known  it,  to  turn  from  the 
holy  commandment,  2  Pet.  ii.  20,  21.  But  you  have  not  only 
known,  but  entered  and  joined  in  church  fellowship  and  the  way 
of  righteousness  ;  therefore  keep  close  to  God  in  your  holy  pro- 
fession and  duty,  which,  in  the  end,  will  bring  an  exceeding  great 
reward,  Matt.  v.  12 ;  minding  this,  beloved,  the  time  is  but  short, 
1  Cor.  vii.  29.  And  remember  this  word  of  our  Lord,  If  any 
man  draw  back,  my  soul  shall  have  no  pleasure  in  him,  Heb.  x. 
38,  39. 

Thus,  dearly  beloved,  we  have  endeavoured  to  put  you  in  mind 


172  THE    RECORDS 

of  your  duty,  hoping,  and  partly  knowing,  that  you  are  not 
ignorant  of  it ;  but  we  are  jealous  over  you  with  a  godly  jealousy, 
and  fear,  lest  by  any  means,  as  the  serpent  beguiled  Eve  through 
his  subtlety,  so  your  minds  should  be  corrupted  from  the  sincerity 
and  the  simplicity  that  is  in  Christ,  2  Cor.  xi.  2 ;  and  so  profess 
to  know  God,  but  in  works  deny  him,  Tit.  i.  16.  And  seeing  you 
know  these  things  before,  beware  lest  ye  also,  being  led  away  with 
the  error  of  the  wicked,  fall  from  your  own  stedfastness,  2  Pet. 
iii.  17 ;  and  thereby  manifest  your  minds  and  consciences  to  be 
defiled,  and  not  to  be  of  them  that  rightly  received  and  learned 
the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus,  Eph.  iv.  21,  Col.  ii.  6,  7.  But  see  that 
ye  grow  in  grace,  and  in  the  knowledge  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour 
Jesus  Christ  ;  to  whom  be  glory,  both  now  and  for  ever.     Amen. 

The  church  desires  to  hear  from  you,  in  answer  hereunto,  as 
speedily  as  you  can.  So  commending  you  to  God,  a?id  to  the 
word  of  his  grace,  which  is  able  to  build  you  up,  and  to  give  you 
an  inheritance  among  all  them  which  are  sanctified,  we  remain 
your  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  Lord,  whilst  you  continue  in  the 
faith,  and  are  not  removed  away  from  the  hope  of  the  gospel,  which 
ye  have  heard,  Col,  i.  23,  John  viii.  31,  35. 

Signed  in  the  name  of  the  whole,  at  the  appointment  of  the 
church,  by 

Edward  Terrill,  John  Ford, 

Thomas  Hardcastle,  Richard  White, 

Thomas  Ellis,  William  Dickason. 
Richard  Teather, 

Moreover,4  dear  sisters,  give  us  leave  to  be  plain  with  you ; 
pray  bear  with  us,  for  it  is  in  love  and  faithfulness  to  yourselves, 
and  to  your  souls'  eternal  welfare,  and  to  discharge  ourselves 
towards  you  according  to  our  duty,  Ezek.  iii.  17,  20,  21 ;  hoping 
the  Lord  will  not  leave  us  to  ourselves,  but  that  we  should  be 
willing  to  hearken  in  gospel  duty  to  you.     Therefore,  let  us  tell 

*  This  latter  part  to  be  added  for  two  Mary  Dennis,  immediately  after  the 
listers   in    particular,  Ann    Virgin    and       word  amen  in  the  letter. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  173 

you,  it  hath  been  declared  unto  us  of  you,  dear  sisters,  such 
things  which  we  are  not  willing  as  much  as  partly  to  believe ; 
for  we  mourn  under  the  thoughts  of  declaring  it  to  you ; 
because  we  durst  not  but  judge  you  were  sincere  in  your  declara- 
tions of  the  new  birth,  or  work  of  God  upon  your  heart,  when 
you  gave  up  yourselves  to  this  church.  Neither  did  we  observe 
or  hear  but  that  you  did,  with  all  endeavour,  walk  as  became 
your  holy  profession  during  your  abode  with  us.  But  now  sad 
tidings  are  come  to  the  ears  of  the  church  concerning  you ;  and 
it  is  reported  that  you  walk,  in  your  conversation  and  family, 
vain  and  carnal,  like  the  world,  as  though  you  never  professed  a 
separation  from  the  world  and  its  worship,  being  seldom  or  never 
seen  at  any  Christian  meetings.  And  further,  that  which  is  an 
addition  of  grief,  that  you  go  to  the  public  worship  of  the  world, 
as  though  you  never  professed  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  a  sub- 
jection to  his  commands  in  the  holy  scriptures.  Now,  if  these 
things  are  so,  dear  sisters,  in  the  name  and  words  of  the  Lord  we 
warn  you  to  repent,  to  turn  from  it,  and  do  the  first  \vorks  ; 
lest  you  be  found  to  be  foolish  virgins,  not  having  oil,  or  true 
grace  in  the  heart,  and  so  be  shut  out ;  having  a  name  that  you 
live,  but  are  dead,  Be  watchful,  and  strengthen  the  things  that 
remain,  that  are  ready  to  die,  lest  God  find  your  work  not  perfect 
or  sincere  before  him.  Remember,  therefore,  hoiv  ye  have  re- 
ceived and  heard ;  holdfast,  and  repent.  If,  therefore,  you  shall 
not  watch,  Christ  saith,  he  will  come  on  you  as  a  thief,  that  you 
shall  not  know  what  hour  he  will  come  ;  for  your  tribulation,  sick- 
ness, death,  or  judgment  may  be  sudden.  These  words  are  the 
counsel  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  Rev.  iii.  1 — 3.  Wherefore,  as  the 
apostle  saith,  2  Cor.  xiii.  10,  we  write  these  things  being  absent, 
lest  being  present  we  should  use  sharpness,  according  to  the  power 
which  the  Lord  hath  given  unto  us  to  edification,  not  unto  destruc- 
tion. But  we  hope  you  are  not  of  them  who  draw  back  unto  per- 
dition, but  of  them  that  believe  to  the  saving  of  the  soul. 


174  THE    RECORDS 

Letter5  of  Anne  Virgin  to  Mr.  Harden stle. 

Sir, — I  have  taken  the  boldness  to  direct  this  enclosed  to  yon, 
though  unknown,  and  desire,  as  you  were  pleased  to  appear  in 
signing  that  from  my  friends  to  me,  so  you  will  let  such  as  you 
think  fit  to  see  my  answer.  It  is  extraordinary  restraint  keeps 
me  that  I  cannot  come  to  enjoy  one  week's  society  amongst 
you ;  for  then  I  believe  I  should  much  better  satisfy  my  friends. 
But  hoping  that  we  shall  one  day  meet  each  other  in  a  place 
where  envy  cannot  interrupt  our  joy,  nor  suspicion  of  guile  at  all 
damp  our  free  communion  with  each  other, 

I  do  remain, 
Your  assured  friend  to  serve  you, 

Anne  Virgin. 
From  Charleville,6  this  25th  Feb.  1672-3. 


Letter  of  sister  Virgin ?s,  accompanying  the  former,  in  answer  to  the 
church's  letter,  from  Charleville.  Dated  the  25th  of  Feb.  or  twelfth 
month,  1672-3. 

My  dear  Brethren  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, — Yours  I  have 
received,  reading  it  with  joyful  tears,  and  accepted  it  as  a  token 
of  love  from  my  gracious  God,  seeing  his  people  so  mindful  of, 
and  concerned  for  me,  a  poor  creature,  altogether  unworthy.  1 
formerly  heard  of  the  Lord's  goodness  to  you,  in  sending  such  a 
worthy  and  painful  labourer  into  his  vineyard,  and  huve  often 
wished  myself  among  you,  to  partake  with  you  of  your  mercy 
therein.  I  heartily  thank  you  for  all  the  loving,  Christian  advice 
you  give  me  in  the  fore  part  of  your  letter,  as  also  for  your  good 

5  [The  following  letters  are  the  replies,  rial  order  and  piety  of  this  church  of 

preserved,  to  the  ahove  circular  letter.  Christ.] 
They  arc  here  placed  together,  and  ex-  6  [Cork  County,  Ireland.] 

hibit  an  interesting  picture  of  the  inter- 


OF   A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  175 

admonitions  in  the  latter,  proceeding  from  your  godly  jealousy 
towards  me.  But  I  think  you  have  been  somewhat  misinformed 
concerning  me;  for,  I  assure  you,  I  have,  ever  since  I  was  a 
wife,  been  a  woman  much  acquainted  with  sorrows.  Instead  of 
living  vain  or  loosely,  I  think  I  have  taken  too  much  care  and 
pains  for  to  please  my  husband,  and  help  to  free  him  from  the 
many  troubles  which  he  hath,  unadvisedly,  brought  on  us  both. 
And  although  no  affliction  is  joyous,  yet  I  trust  it  will  work  the 
peaceful  fruits  of  righteousness ;  for  I  have  much  cause  to  praise 
the  Lord,  because  he  has  heaped  up  my  way  with  thorns,  suffer- 
ing me  to  find  no  comfort  therein.  Surely  in  very  faithfulness  I 
am  afflicted.  I«.now  very  clearly  see  the  justice  of  God  in  my 
suffering,  and  the  great  mercy  that  I  was  not  cut  off  in  sickness, 
wherein  I  was  near  death  about  three  years  past ;  also  since  I 
received  your  letter,  I  feared  I  should  not  live  to  write  an  answer 
of  it. 

But  now  [that]  (the  Lord  be  praised)  I  am  indifferent  well 
recovered,  I  do  not  only  see  the  error  of  my  way,  but  do  very 
heartily  repent  my  exceeding  great  folly,  in  spending  so  many 
years  pursuing  shadows,  which  fled  the  faster  from  me  because  I 
followed  them  ;  for  the  more  I  have  strived  to  gain  my  husband's 
faithful  love  to  me,  observing  his  temper,  and  studying  every  way 
I  could  to  humour  and  please  him,  still  the  more  unnatural  he 
appears  to  me.  For  he  hath  seemed,  hitherto,  not  at  all  to  regard 
me  and  my  five  small  children,  in  comparison  of  his  brother  and 
sister,  and  several  kindred,  together  with  two  sons  he  had  by  a 
former  wife  ;  all  which  hath  occasioned  our  loss  of  above  fourteen 
hundred  pounds,  besides  great  sorrow  to  me,  very  hard  to  bear. 
God  hath  not  suffered  me  to  rest  upon  the  lees  of  sin  and  corrup- 
tion, yet  I  am  wonderfully  supported  by  a  secret  power,  to  the 
admiration  of  some  that  know  my  condition ;  for  I  am  verily 
persuaded  my  gracious  God  will,  in  the  end,  make  all  work  for 
my  good.  And  what  though  my  way  be  rough  and  troublesome, 
heaven  and  eternal  happiness  will  make  amends  for  all. 

And  now,  as  for  my  going  to  the  public  worship,  since  it  is  of 
the  same  God  which  we  serve,  and  the  same  gospel  is  preached, 


176  THE    RECORDS 

I  do  not  find  that  I  am  so  much  warned  whom,  as  now,  I  hear  ; 
but  I  do  not  find  in  my  heart  a  freedom  to  commune  among 
them,  neither  have  I,  to  my  great  grief,  since  I  left  Bristol.  I 
had  thought  to  show  my  letter,  which  I  had  with  me,  [her  letter 
of  recommendation]  to  Mr.  Woods,  but  he  left  Cork  soon  after 
my  coming;  and  now  I  hope  to  receive  the  ordinance  of  Mr. 
Daniel  Burgess/  before  he  leaves  Charleville,  where  I  now  live. 
I  have  found  much  comfort  in  his  Christian  society,  but  lie 
intends  now  to  dwell  in  Dublin;  and  my  God,  I  trust,  will  make 
up  from  himself  the  want  of  outward  means.  I  wish  I  may 
never  more  have  expectation  from,  or  dependence  upon  any 
creature  ;  but  look  wholly  to  the  fountain  of  all  4rue  comfort  for 
happiness,  though  I  know  his  usual  conveyance  of  it  to  us  is 
through  the  use  of  means  ;  therefore  I  find  it  every  way  very  hard  to 
keep  in  the  straight,  middle  part ;  but  my  God  can,  and  will,  I 
trust,  lead  me  in  the  perfect  way  for  all  this.  And  that  I  may  be 
supported  under,  and,  when  the  Lord  sees  me  fit  for  freedom, 
delivered  out  of  all  my  troubles,  I  heartily  beg  your  prayers. 

Now  that  we  may  all  so  live,  that  after  death  we  may  all  meet 
where  sorrow  shall  be  no  more  remembered,  is  the  hearty  desire 
of  her  that  is  resolved,  with  all  my  heart,  to  serve  the  Lord  in 
sincerity  all  the  days  of  my  life ;  for  I  find  therein  the  greatest 
freedom  and  comfort  on  this  side  heaven.  And  that  I  might 
hold  out  to  the  end,  so  running  that  I  might  obtain  the  prize,  let 
me  be  still  upon  your  hearts  when  you  approach  the  throne  of 
mercy.  I  am  very  willing  to  serve  you  all,  or  any  of  you.  I 
think,  in  this  six  weeks,  I  shall  come  again  to  live  in  Cork ;  and 
remain, 

Your  affectionate  friend  and  sister, 

Anne  Virgin. 

Pray  do  not  believe  all  flying  reports  of  me  ;  consider  there  is 

7   [Mr.  Daniel  Burgess,  subsequently  ster,  to  strengthen  the  protestant  interest 

pastor    of   an    independent   church   in  in  that  kingdom.     After  this  he  became 

London,  was  at  this  time  head  master  of  chaplain  to  the  lady  Mcrvin,  near  Dub- 

a  school  at  Charleville,  set  up  by  the  tin,  where  he  was  ordained. — Wilson's 

Earl  of  Orrery,  Lord  President  of  Mun-  Diss.  Ch.  iii.  496.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  177 

none  alive  that  all  speak  well  of.  But  I  take  it  very  kindly  that 
you  warn  me  of  what  you  feared.  Pray  let  me  hear  often  from 
you,  for  it  is  a  refreshing  to  my  troubled  heart;  and  excuse  the 
confusedness  of  this,  for,  because  of  some  hard  trials  I  am  exer- 
cised under,  my  thoughts  are  very  discomposed.     Farewell. 

A.  V. 


Letter  of  sister  Mary  Croker,  in  answer  to  the  church's  letter. 
March  2,1st.  1673. 

To  a  church  of  Christ  in  Bristol,  beloved  of  God,  called  to  be 
saints.    Grace  and  peace  be  multiplied  to  you. 

Barnstaple,  31st  1st  m.  1673. 

Dearly  beloved  Brethren, — I  kindly  salute  you  in  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  much  longing  for  your  daily  growth  and 
increase  in  grace,  and  that  you  might  be  filled  with  the  knowledge 
of  the  ivill  of  the  Lord,  in  all  wisdom  and  spiritual  understand- 
ing ;  to  the  end  you  may  walk  worthy  of  the  Lord  unto  all  well 
pleasing,  being  fruitful  in  every  good  work,  increasing  in  the 
knowledge  of  God;  and  that  you  may  be 'strengthened  by  the 
almighty  power  of  the  Lord,  against  all  sufferings  whatsoever ; 
and  that  you  may  patiently  and  quietly  submit  unto  the  will  of 
the  Lord,  in  all  states  and  conditions. 

Oh,  dear  brethren,  how  are  we  exceedingly  bound  to  give 
thanks  unto  our  Lord,  who  hath  made  us  meet  to  be  partakers  of 
the  inheritance  of  the  saints  in  light !  Oh,  precious  and  unspeak- 
able mercy,  that  the  Lord  should  call  such  guilty  and  unworthy 
creatures  out  of  the  power  of  darkness,  and  translate  us  into  his 
marvellous  light ! 

Surely,  brethren,  if  we  consider  [1st],  what  we  were  before  the 
Lord  called  us, — poor  creatures,  posting  downwards  to  the  cham- 
bers of  darkness,  running  headlong  to  eternal  destruction ;  2nd, 
who  it  is  that  hath  called  us, — none  other  but  Him  that  hath  shed 

N 


178  THE    RECORDS 

his  precious  blood  for  us,  by  the  powerful  operation  of  his  Spirit, 
in  the  ministry  of  his  word ;  3rd,  how  long  he  waited  upon  us,  that 
so  he  might  have  entertainment  in  our  souls  : — oh,  that  the  King 
of  glory  should  stand  knocking  at  the  door  of  our  hearts,  till  his 
locks  were  wet  with  the  dew  of  the  night,  that  he  might  make  us 
partakers  of  the  riches  of  his  grace!  4th,  from  what  he  hath 
called  us, — from  sin,  which  doth  separate  the  Lord  and  poor 
souls,  and  from  Satan,  whose  daily  endeavour  is  to  enslave  poor 
souls,  and  to  undo  them  eternally  ;  from  the  world,  with  its  plea- 
sures, profits,  and  preferments,  that  cheat  poor  souls;  from  the 
customs  and  traditions  of  men,  to  walk  in  obedience  to  the 
written  commands  of  our  God  ;  5th,  unto  what, — to  the  light  of 
his  most  blessed  gospel,  to  an  inheritance  incorruptible.  Oh, 
dear  and  precious  brethren,  how  should  these  considerations  teach 
us  to  what  end  the  Lord  hath  called  us, — even  that  we  should 
show  forth  the  praises  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ!  Oh  that  it 
might  be  the  earnest  desire  of  our  souls  to  answer  these  ends 
of  the  Lord  in  the  dispensations  of  his  graces  and  mercy 
towards  us  ! 

Dearly  beloved,  I  have  received  your  epistle  to  me,  which 
gives  me  sufficient  cause  to  adore  the  continued  discoveries  of  the 
unchangeable  love  of  God  to  such  a  poor  worm  as  I  am,  in 
moving  the  hearts  of  his  people  to  make  inquiries  after,  and  send 
good  and  necessary  counsel  to  me.  I  desire  my  soul  may  receive 
suitable  impressions  from  it;  and  [I]  return  you  my  hearty 
acknowledgments  for  your  care  and  love  to  me-ward. 

In  answer  to  your  several  desires :  — These  near  fifteen  or  six- 
teen years  past  (Providence  bringing  me,  and  my  marriage 
settling  me,  in  these  parts),  in  order  to  my  being  joined  in  church 
communion  with  a  baptized  church  in  this  town,  I  had  a  letter 
testimonial  from  you  ;  but  through  the  death  of  several  brethren, 
and  the  many  distractions  of  the  times,  at  present  it  cannot  be 
found.  But  upon  that  letter  I  was  received  as  a  member  of,  and 
still,  through  the  grace  of  God,  walk  in  company  with,  this 
church ;  though,  as  to  the  enjoyment  of  those  precious  sealing 
ordinances  you  write  of,  we  may  say,  like  Israel  of  old  touching 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  179 

the  ark,  our  hearts  lament  after  them,  having  for  many  years 
been  debarred  them,  especially  through  our  wanting  a  he-goat  to 
go  in  and  out  before  us.  As  to  my  inward  state,  though  I  have 
cause  to  own  it,  that  my  house  is  not  so  with  God,  yet  the  con- 
sideration of  the  unchangeable  love  of  God,  revealed  and  made 
known  to  me  in  the  everlasting  covenant,  through  Jesus  Christ,  is 
that,  through  the  rich  grace  of  God,  which  keeps  me  from  sink- 
ing under  the  many  sad  discouragements  I  meet  with,  both  from 
within  and  without.  Blessed  be  the  name  of  God,  though  I  am 
made  to  cry  out,  Woe  is  me,  I  dwell  in  the  tents  of  Kedar,  and 
sojourn  in  Mesech !     [Ps.  cxx.  5,] 

As  to  my  outward  state,  I  am  married  to  a  member  of  this 
church,  by  whom  I  have  had  several  children ;  four  of  them  the 
Lord  is  still  pleased  to  lend  me.  And,  blessed  be  the  Lord, 
though  we  do  not  abound,  yet  we  are  in  a  pretty  comfortable 
state. 

I  desire  with  you  to  rejoice  in  the  Lord,  for  his  gracious  supply 
of  your  late  sad  breach.  The  Lord  make  him  of  advantage  both 
to  saints  and  sinners  !  I  should  be  glad  to  hear  as  oft  as  you 
can.     Committing  you  to  the  Lord, 

I  remain, 
Your  unworthy  sister,  through  grace, 

Mary  Croker. 


Letter  of  sister  Anne    Wade,  in  answer  to  the  church's  letter. 

July  22nd,  1673. 
Honoured,  dear,  and  beloved  Brethren  and  Sisters  in  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  hope, — In  whom  I  heartily  salute  you, 
and  through  whom  I  wish  all  health,  peace,  and  prosperity  to 
your  souls  and  bodies,  with  an  increase  of  grace  and  comfort  by 
the  Spirit  of  holiness  ;  which  I  desire  the  Lord  may  pour  upon 
you  daily,  more  and  more,  filling  you  with  all  joy  and  peace, 

N  2 


180  THE    RECORDS 

that  you  may  abound  in  all  graces,  to  his  own  praise,  and  our 
everlasting  consolation,  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord. 

Beloved,  I  have  received  yours  of  the  27th  of  the  month  pn^t, 
accompanied  with  the  blessed  relation  of  God's  gracious  dealings 
with  us,  in  issuing  his  depriving  us  of  our  late  blessed  pastor, 
with  the  rest  of  his  various  dispensations  towards  us,  into  a  calm 
settlement,  under  the  conduct  of  another  of  his  faithful  servants ; 
for  which  I  desire  with  you  ever  to  bless  and  praise  his  name, 
and  trust  he  will  enable  us  to  improve  this  our  summer  of  enjoy- 
ments, so  as  to  lay  up  such  a  stock  of  strength  and  holy  courage, 
as  may  carry  us  through  what  future  winter  of  trial  and  tribula- 
tion he  may  please  to  bring  over  us. 

In  answer  to  what  you  desire,  relating  to  the  condition  God  by 
his  providence  has  cast  me  in, — 

1.  I  may  say  from  experience  that  his  compassions  fail  not,  but 
his  mercies  are  renewed  every  morning ;  and  that,  although  he  has 
cast  my  lot  so  as  that  I  sojourn,  as  it  were,  in  Mesech,  and  dwell 
in  the  tents  of  Kedar,  he  does  not  leave  me  without  such  refresh- 
ings and  supplies  of  strength  from  his  Holy  Spirit,  and  by  means 
of  his  servants,  whom  his  providence  sometimes  conducts  to  our 
habitation,  whereby  he  has  hitherto  enabled  me  to  persevere  in, 
and  hold  fast,  that  profession  of  faith  of  which  you  are  witnesses. 

2.  As  to  my  participation  of  those  ordinances  Christ  has 
instituted  for  our  remembrance  of  him  till  his  second  appearing, 
as  often  as  distance  of  place  and  infirmity  of  body  have  per- 
mitted me,  I  have  had  the  enjoyment  of  them,  with  that  church 
of  Christ  in  Gloucester,  walking  with  Mr.  Forbes,8  to  whom  our 
deceased  pastor  did,  by  word  of  mouth,  commend  me,  as  you  also 
did,  by  the  original  of  the  enclosed  copy. 

8  [Mr.  James  Forbes,  M.A.,  was  ex-  soned  for  his  nonconformity.     He  was 

eluded  from  the  cathedral  of  Gloucester,  a  holy,  humble,   serious,  and    learned 

where  he  preached  with  great  success,  man,  full  of  good  works.     His  library 

by  the  Act  of  Uniformity.    He  gathered  he  bequeathed  to  his  congregation  ;  it  is 

a  church  after  his  ejection,  over  which  of  considerable  value,  and  still  in  exist- 

he  presided  till  his  death  in  1  712,  at  the       ence Palmer's  Noncon.  Mem.  i.  545. 

age  of  eighty-three.    He  was  fined  more  Murch's  Hist,  of  Presb.  p.  11.] 
than  once  ;  excommunicated  and  impri- 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  181 

So,  my  beloved  fellow-labourers,  I  bless  God  who  has  stirred 
you  up  to  afford  me  so  large  testimonies  of  your  Christian  care 
and  watchfulness  over  me,  although  absent  in  body  from  you; 
and  beg  you,  that  you  would  add  to  your  consolations  and  godly 
admonitions,  your  prayers  to  the  Almighty  for  me,  that  he  would 
sanctify  them  to  the  use  you  have  intended  them,  and  that  he 
would  keep  me  stedfast  to  the  end,  through  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord ;  to  whom  I  commend  your  souls  and  bodies,  and  in  whom 
I  will  ever  send  up  my  requests,  that  we  may  be  found  at  his 
coming  those  that  earnestly  longed  for  and  loved  his  appearing. 
I  remain, 
Your  unworthy  sister  in  the  Lord, 

Anne  Wade. 

To  the  church  of  Christ  in  Bristol,  walking  with  Mr.  Thomas 
Hardcastle. 


Letter  of  sister   Sylvester    Collins,  in  answer  to  the  church's  letter. 

Oct.  24,  1673. 
To  the  church  of  Christ   in   Bristol,  over  which   that  watchful 
and  faithful  minister  of  the  gospel,  Mr.  Thomas  Ewins,  lately 
deceased,  was  overseer,  and  of  which  Mr.  Thomas  Hardcastle, 
his  successor,  is  present  pastor. 

Blessed  be  God !  that  hath  not  left  you  destitute  of  a  pious  and 
able  teacher,  nor  of  godly  and  constant  minds  to  follow  his 
doctrine,  in  love  to  the  truth,  and  care  of  the  members ;  which  is 
abundantly  manifested  by  treading  in  the  steps  of  the  faithful, 
who  have  always  had  a  longing  desire  to  know  the  affairs  of 
God's  people  absent,  either  to  mourn  for  their  affliction,  or  to 
rejoice  for  their  prosperous  state,  Neh.  i.  2 — 4.  Nehemiah  was 
inquisitive  about  the  Jews  that  had  escaped,  and  concerning 
Jerusalem  ;  and  understanding  their  great  affliction  and  reproach, 
wept,  mourned,  fasted,  and  prayed  before  the  God  of  heaven. 
Paul,  Eph.  vi.  21,  22,  knew  that  his  good  condition  would  afford 
comfort  to  the  brethren  at  Ephesus,  and  therefore  of  purpose  sent 


182  THE    RECORDS 

Tychicus  to  acquaint  them  therewith  ;  neither  could  he  forbear, 
but  sent  to  know  the  faith  of  the  Thessalonians,  lest  by  some 
means,  1  Thess.  iii.  5 — 7,  the  tempter  should  have  tempted  them, 
and  his  labour  be  in  vain.  And  when  Timothy  brought  him 
good  tidings  of  their  faith  and  charity,  what  comfort  received  he 
in  his  afflictions  thereby.  And  doubtless  St.  John,  third  epistle, 
second  verse,  would  have  been  as  glad  to  hear  of  Gaius,  his 
health  of  body  and  prosperity  of  soul,  as  he  was  ready  to  wish  it. 

You  are,  brethren,  of  like  spirit.  In  answer,  therefore,  to  your 
Christian  expectation,  I  am  bound  to  thank  God,  that  though 
with  Naomi,  Ruth  i.  1,2,  I  parted  from  the  city  and  brethren 
for  sustentation  of  myself  and  family,  and  so,  through  mercy, 
have,  and  still  do,  accordingly  find  great  friendship  both  to  me 
and  mine,  yet  my  case  exceeded  hers,  in  that  I  came  not  from 
the  worshippers  of  the  true  God  to  infidels  and  heathenish  idol- 
ators,  but,  as  I  suppose,  to  such  as  worship  God  according  to  his 
word,  and  not  as  the  servants  of  men ;  where  the  word  is  purely 
preached,  not  as  by  time-servers ;  and  where  the  Lord's  supper 
is  often  administered,  and  not  superstitiously.  So  that  I  have  not 
forborne  to  join  in  the  participation  thereof,  as  well  as  hearing,  as 
nothing  doubting  to  be  one  in  such  an  assembly,  under  such  a 
ministry.  And  as  touching  letters  of  recommendation  from  you, 
[  received  none. 

And,  lastly,  as  to  your  godly  and  holy  cautions,  exhortations, 
directions,  and  admonitions,  I  do  humbly  embrace  and  accept 
them,  with  all  thankfulness  ;  intending  and  resolving,  by  God's 
grace,  to  pursue  and  follow  them  to  the  utmost  of  my  endeavour ; 
desiring  the  help  and  assistance  of  your  fervent  prayers,  to  further 
me  in  the  knowledge  and  life  of  the  gospel,  and  that  I  may  care- 
fully watch  against  backsliding  into  deadness  and  dulness  of 
affection,  into  error  of  judgment,  and  looseness  of  life  and  con- 
versation ;  and  so  1k>  kept  blameless  till  the  coming  of  our  Lord 
and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ ;  to  whom  be  glory,  both  now  and  for 
ever.     Ainen. 

N Our  faithfal  sister  in  the  Lord, 

Sylvester  Collins. 
rstone,  Oct.  24.  1673. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  183 

Letter  of  sister  Alice  Adams,  formerly  Simmo?ids,  in  answer 
to  the  church's  letter. 

From  Nevis,  12th  Feb.  1673-4. 

Dear  and  reverend  Pastor,  Brethren,  and  Sisters,  in  the 
Lord, — I  received  your  epistle,  which  did  much  rejoice  and  refresh 
my  soul,  through  the  good  hand  of  God  setting  it  home.  Those 
choice  counsels  which  you  have  laid  before  me,  have  been, 
through  grace,  as  so  many  cordials  to  cheer  up  and  quicken  my 
soul.  Truly  I  have  been  much  grieved  in  spirit  many  times,  that 
I  have  not  [had]  one  line  from  any  of  you,  since  I  parted  from 
you.  Sometimes  I  have  been  tempted  to  fear  that  I  was  cast  out 
of  your  hearts,  who  are,  through  free  grace,  the  visible  church  on 
earth ;  that  I  was  cast  out  of  the  invisible  church  ;  and  many  sad 
temptations,  like  to  this,  which  would  be  too  tedious  to  write  here. 
I  may  truly,  with  the  prophet  David,  say,  that  my  soul  shall 
praise  the  Lord,  and  that  all  that  is  within  me  shall  praise  his 
holy  name ;  for,  indeed,  he  alone  hath  wrought  deliverances  for 
me.  When  the  enemies  of  my  soul  and  body,  sometimes  toge- 
ther, have  come  in  like  a  flood,  the  Lord  has  been  pleased  to  set 
his  standard  against  them;  for  He  to  whom  I  have  committed  the 
keeping  of  my  soul  and  body  hath  delivered  me,  and  does  deliver 
me,  and  I  trust  will  deliver.  For  I  have  precious  promises,  oh 
blessed  be  his  name  !  that  he  will  carry  on  that  good  work  which 
he  hath  begun,  and  he  will  never  leave  nor  forsake  them  that  put 
their  trust  in  him.  Therefore  I  mind  not  what  the  black  mouths 
of  the  world  can  say  against  me  ;  for  though  I  have  no  strength 
of  my  own,  yet,  through  the  mighty  power  of  God,  I  have  been 
kept  from  those  abominable  sins  which  are  laid  to  my  charge,  for 
I  do  abhor  such  cursed  practices,  and  those  that  use  them.  I  can 
say,  through  grace,  my  soul  doth  mourn  and  grieve  for  the 
wickedness  of  others ;  much  more  I  abhor  to  run  with  them  to  the 
same  excess  of  riot. 

Dear  friends,  I  have  not  a  capacity  to  write,  but  according  to 
my  poor  gift  I  shall  endeavour  to  answer  your  desires  : — as,  first, 


184  THE    RECORDS 

for  that  report  which  you  hear,  that  I  keep  not  up  my  holy  pro- 
fession in  my  family  and  neighbourhood.  I  hope,  in  some 
measure,  as  the  Lord  doth  enable  me,  I  do  make  a  conscience  of 
that  duty,  or  else  I  know  my  condemnation  to  be  just.  And  also 
for  sanctifying  the  sabbath,  I  desire,  with  my  soul,  to  keep  [it] 
holy  to  the  Lord.  As  for  my  assembling  myself  amongst  those 
whom  you  judge  do  separate  from  others,  I  know  none  such  here, 
who  do  keep  up  those  lively  ordinances  of  the  Lord ;  for  Edward 
Barnes,  who  you  name,  I  have  often  asked  him  whether  any 
friends  did  assemble  there  ?  He  replied,  He  only  kept  up  family 
duty  in  his  own  house.  So,  through  grace,  the  Lord  doth  enable 
me,  in  some  measure,  to  do  my  duty  in  my  own  family,  though  a 
weak  worm  ;  I  can  do  nothing  as  I  ought.  I  rejoice  to  hear  that 
the  Lord  hath  been  pleased  to  give  you  a  pastor  after  his  own 
heart.     The  Lord  sanctify  that  mercy  to  you ! 

I  have  one  request  to  beg  of  you  all,  that  so  often  as  you 
assemble  before  the  Lord,  you  would  spread  my  condition  before 
him,  as  to  my  living  in  this  barren  wilderness  place ;  that  he 
would  be  pleased,  in  his  own  time,  to  bring  me  once  more  amongst 
the  assemblies  of  his  saints,  where  I  was  wont  to  enjoy  his 
gracious  presence,  to  the  refreshing  and  comfort  of  my  soul ;  and 
whilst  I  am  here,  that  he  would  keep  me  from  the  pollutions  of  this 
place,  and  the  lash  of  tongues,  which  do  ofttimes  sadden  my  soul. 
I  desire  to  be  remembered  to  you  all,  and  return  you  many  thanks 
for  all  your  labours  of  love  showed  to  me  when  with  you  ;  and 
the  good  Lord  reward  you  doublefold,  and  keep  you  in  your  holy 
profession,  till  we  all  meet  in  that  mansion  of  glory  which  our 
Lord  Jesus  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love  him.  Thus  I  commit 
you  to  the  word  of  his  grace,  and 

But  one  of  the  meanest  of  the  flock  of  Christ, 

Alice  Adams. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  185 

Letter  of  Mr.  West,  as  answer  for  sister  Rachel  Browne, 
formerly  Dighton. 

London,  April  6th,  1674. 

Worthy  Sir, — Some  few  days  since,  Mrs.  Browne  communi- 
cated to  me  a  letter  from  yourself  and  some  brethren,  in  the  name 
of  the  society  joined  with  you,  directed  unto  her  as  formerly 
walking  with  you ;  wherein  are  several  heads  of  pious  counsel, 
for  which  she,  and  I  in  behalf  of  her,  do  thank  you ;  hoping  they 
will  have  their  due  weight  with  her.  Some  inquiry,  also,  I  find 
made  after  her,  which  further  speaks  your  Christian  care  of  her, 
and  love  to  her ;  as  to  which  I  make  bold  to  return  an  answer  in 
her  behalf,  partly  in  regard  of  her  modesty,  as  she  is  a  woman, 
and  partly  for  a  testimony  to  you,  as  I  am  a  minister. 

As  for  her  outward  state,  by  the  blessing  of  God,  I  judge  it 
prosperous  in  respect  of  the  relation  to  whom  God  has  joined  her, 
and  the'  accommodation  he  has  mercifully  afforded  to  her.  On 
this  account  you  may  rejoice  with  her. 

Her  inward  man  I  also  hope  the  like  of,  by  better  arguments 
than  I  could  hope  to  draw  from  her  own  mouth  ;  vide  I. ,  her 
blameless  conversation,  and  undaunted  profession  amidst  no  small 
difficulties,  whereon  I  reckon  her,  with  some  others,  my  joy  and 
crown  of  rejoicing,  hoping  she  will  also  so  prove  and  appear  at 
the  coming  of  Christ,  whereto  your  continued  prayers  may  confer 
much. 

Your  other  query,  relating  to  the  minister  and  society  she  walks 
with,  as  to  the  participation  of  the  sealing  ordinances  :  it  has 
been  for  these  seven  years  last  past,  and  upward,  with  myself, 
such  -as  I  am  by  the  measure  of  God's  gift  and  grace.  As  for 
any  formal  letter  of  recommendation,  I  learn  not  that  she  had 
any  ;  but,  by  the  providence  of  God,  being  removed  beyond  pos- 
sibility of  actual  communion  with  you,  with  the  approbation  of 
Mr.  Ewins,  she  first  entered  into  fellowship  with  Mr.  Hum- 
phreys^ and  upon  his  death  in  the  sickness,  with  divers  others  of 

9  [Mr.  Humphreys  was  probably  paB-  Martin's  Lane. — Wilson's  Diss.  Ch.  iv.' 
tor  of  a  presbyterian  congregation  in  St.       20.] 


186  THE    RECORDS 


that  society  she  sat  down  with  me  ;  who  reckon  myself  in  present 
circumstances  charged  with  her,  as  one  that  must  give  account  of 
her.     And  do  you  pray  that  I  may  do  it  with  joy. 

What  you,  for  form's  sake,  may  think  good,  as  yet  [to]  do  by 
way  of  recommendation,  I  leave  to  you ;  though  as  to  our  satis- 
faction, after  so  long  acquaintance,  I  may  say  of  her,  as  the 
apostle  of  himself,  That  she  needs  not,  as  some  others,  letters  of 
recommendation.  With  kind  [acknowledgments]  of  your  joint 
care  of  her,  in  my  own  and  her  behalf  I  salute  all  of  you  in  the 
Lord. 

Your  fellow-servant  in  the  kingdom  and  patience  of  Christ, 

Edward  West.1 
London,  April  6,  [16]74. 


Letter  of  sister  Elizabeth  Hasler. 

Dear  and  well-beloved  Brother  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
—I  have  been  lately  under  much  inward  trouble,  and  was  four 
months  bound  by  Satan,  under  very  dreadful  temptations,  and 
sad  conclusions  against  myself;  but,  through  the  riches  of  the 
grace  of  God,  I  am  now  delivered  out  of  that  state,  and  have 
a  fuller  manifestation  of  the  love  of  God  through  Christ  to  my 
soul  than  ever  I  had  before.  I  entreat  and  beg  of  you  to 
praise  the  Lord  for  his  wonderful  goodness  towards  me;  who, 
though  he  leads  me  through  various  conditions,  and  'causes 
me  to  taste  of  all  waters,  also  gives  me  experience  of  manifold 
deliverances. 

I  am  in  some  measure  of  health,  though  very  weak,  and  full 
of  pain  in  my  limbs ;   but,  through  the  help  of  crutches,  I  can 

1  [Mr.    Edward    West,    M.A.,    was  among  the   brethren   in   conventicles." 

ejected  from  Long  Wittenham,  in  Berk-  He  died  suddenly,  in  the  night,  after 

Bhire  ;    he   withdrew   to    London,   and  preaching  twice  on  the  preceding  day, 

gathered  a  congregation   of  independ-  January  30th,   1075.     He  was  a  man 

ente,    "being    in    high    value,"    says  full  of  holy  zeal  and  fervour,  and  very 

Wood,     "for    Lis    edifying    preaching  useful.— Wilson,  Diss.  Ch.  ii.  534.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST*  187 

go  to  hear  the  word,  and,  blessed  be  the  Lord !  I  do  rather  abound 
than  want.  I  had  a  letter  from  you  the  summer  after  I  came, 
which  I  received  the  very  month  and  year  the  king  came  into 
England;  but,  suddenly,  after  the  coming  of  it,  I  was  bereaved 
of  my  senses,  and  was  cast  into  Bethlehem,  where  I  remained 
eighteen  months ;  and  at  my  first  restoration  from  that  state,  I 
was  taken  lame,  so  that  I  could  neither  go  nor  stand,  and  con- 
tinued so  for  two  years.  After  that,  it  pleased  the  Lord  to  take 
away  my  sight ;  and,  suddenly,  after  I  began  to  recover  of  my 
lameness,  I  was  struck  sick  of  the  plague,  and  had  an  ulcer,  by 
reason  of  which  I  was  sent  to  the  hospital,  and  was  one  year 
under  the  chirurgeon's  hand,  having  my  thigh  laid  open,  and  my 
condition  very  deplorable.  As  soon  as  I  began  to  recover  of  this 
sore  malady,  I  was  again  deprived  of  my  senses,  and  sent  to  the 
place  aforesaid,  where  I  remained  thirteen  months.  And  then 
the  fire  came  to  London.  I  have  been  freed  from  thence  these 
seven  years,  but  afterwards  continued  lame  three  years,  so  that  I 
could  neither  go  nor  stand. 

For  these  reasons  I  was  hindered  from  joining  with  any  people ; 
but  as  soon  as  I  was  able  to  go  out  with  crutches,  I  did  join 
with,  and  still  remain  amongst,  the  Lord's  people  walking  with 
Mr.  John  Gosnold,2  whose  ministry  the  Lord  hath  abundantly 
blessed  to  my  soul.  My  dear  friends,  I  have  been  much  pressed 
in  spirit  to  come  and  spend  one  week  among  you,  that  I  might 
impart  unto  you  what  the  Lord  hath  done  for  me,  and  also 
to  receive  from  you  what  he  hath  delivered  unto  you;  but 
being  under  subjection  to  the  parish  that  pays  for  my  living,  I 
cannot  do  it  without  their  consent,  lest  there  may  be  danger  in  it. 
I  acquaint  you  with  my  thankfulness  to  you  all,  for  your  former 
readiness  towards  me  in  my  necessity. 

Elizabeth  Hasler. 
May  4th,  1674. 

I  live  with  Mr.  Townsend,  in  Honeysuckle  Court,  in  Grub  Street. 

a  [A  man  of  great  learning  and  piety,  tered    to    a   very    large    congregation, 

After  his  ejection  from   the   establish-  usually   computed   at   three   thousand, 

nient,  he  became  pastor  of  a  baptist  He   died   in   1678,  and  was  buried  in 

church  in  the  Barbican,  where  he  minis-  Bunhill  Fields. — Crosby,  iii.  62.] 


188  THE    RECORDS 

Brother  Nathanael  Sneed,  and  sister  Sneed,  his  wife,  and 
sister  Rachel  Clark,  their  servant,  were  proposed  to  the 
congregation,  as  their  desire  to  join,  upon  the  fifth  day,  the 
third  month,  1672  ;  and  on  the  seventh  day  following,  being 
the  church's  monthly  day,  they  made  their  declaration  before 
the  congregation  of  their  conversion,  or  work  of  God  upon 
their  souls ;  with  which  the  church  being  satisfied,  they  were 
baptized  upon  the  tenth  day  of  the  third  month,  1672.  So 
that  then  we  saw  (and  had  experience  of),  a  whole  house- 
hold was  baptized  at  one  time  together  :  namely,  himself, 
his  wife,  and  maid,  which  was  all  the  family.  So  that  it  may 
be  said  (according  to  the  judgment  of  charity,  they  having 
declared  their  conversion,  their  faith,  and  repentance),  as  it 
was  said  of  the  jailer,  Acts  xvi.  34,  He  believed  in  God  with 
all  his  house.  So  that  here  is  a  living  precedent, 
that  a  man  and  all  his  (or  a  whole)  household,  may  be  bap- 
tized, and  have  no  child  in  it ;  as  many  more  may  be,  if 
the  Lord  please  to  change  them,  and  grace  them  with  faith, 
repentance,  and  desires  of  the  ordinance,  as  these  did, 
according  to  the  practice  of  Christ  and  the  apostles. 

Sister  Dawson  was  propounded  upon  the  12th  day  of  the 
third  month,  1672  ;3  she  gave  a  declaration  of  the  work  of 
grace  upon  her  heart,  on  the  sixth  day,  sixth  month  follow- 
ing, and  was  received  into  fellowship  the  eleventh  day,  sixth 
month,  1672. 

Upon  the  said  eleventh  of  the  sixth  month,  1672,  the 
church  took  into  consideration  their  meeting  of  conference, 
which,  for  some  time,  they  had  omitted,  through  the  sickness 
and  decease  of  their  late  pastor,  and  through  the  persecution 

3  [Mr.  Hardcastle's  Catechetical  Lee-  am  willing  to  leave  something  on  the 

tures  were  this  day  interrupted,  by  the  spirits  of  young  ones  that  may   make 

preaching  of  a  sermon  on  Eccles.  xii.  1  ;  some  impression."     The  course  of  lec- 

"  because,"  he  says  at  the  commence-  tures  was  not  resumed  till  the  21st  of 

ment,  "  bring  to  take  a  journey,  if  God  July.     This  sermon  is  preserved  in  the 

will,   at   some  considerable   distance,    I  manuscript  volume  already  alluded  to.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  189 

that  began  upon  them  on  the  10th  of  May,  1670;  being  by 
force  and  arms  kept  out  of  our  meeting  place.  So  that  the 
church  kept  up  but  one  of  the  two  week-day  meetings, 
besides  the  Lord's  day,  during  these  troubles.  And  now 
enjoying  some  peace,  the  church  orders,  That  our  said 
meeting  of  conference  be  again  set  up,  for  the  exercise  of 
the  young  brethren's  gifts,  that  according  to  1  Cor.  xiv. 
from  24,  29 — 32,  all  may  speak: — That  any  member  may 
propose  a  question  from  scripture,  and  so  their  doubts  may 
be  resolved;  and  that  this  meeting  be  kept  every  second 
day  in  the  week,  at  five  of  the  clock,  at  the  meeting  house. 

Sister  Mary  Field,  widow,  and  sister  Mary  Skinker,  being- 
propounded   upon   the   third    of    the   ninth   month,    1672 ; 
sister  Field  only  gave  an  account  of  the  work  of  God  upon 
her  soul,  on  the  fifth  day  ditto,  at  a  day  of  prayer. 

Brother  Henry  Davis,  and  sister  Mary  Young,  with  sister 
Bathsheba  Sulmer,  and  sister  Elizabeth  Jordan,  were  pro- 
pounded together,  upon  the  29th  of  the  tenth  month,  anno 
1672. 

Brother  Nicolas  Gregory  was  propounded  upon  the  7th 
of  the  11th  month,  1672;  and  then,  together  with  those  pro- 
posed before,  namely,  brother  Davis,  sister  Skinker,  sister 
Mary  Young,  sister  Bathsheba  Sulmer,  Sister  Elizabeth 
Jordan,  these  five  gave  an  account  of  the  work  of  God  upon 
their  souls,  before  the  whole  congregation.  Three  of  which 
the  church  received  then  satisfaction  to  receive  them ;  but 
two  of  the  brethren  desired  further  time  to  discourse  [with] 
Mary  Skinker  about  her  principles :  whether  she  was  sound 
in  the  doctrine  of   the  gospel,  concerning  the   person   and 


4  [Mr.  Hardcastle  finished  his  lectures  these  discourses   are   preserved  in    the 

on  the  Assembly's  Catechism  on  the  6th  manuscript   volume   before   mentioned, 

of  October,  and  on  this  day,  the  3rd  when  they  abruptly  terminate,  the  last 

November,  commenced  an  exposition  of  of  them  appearing  to  be  incomplete.] 
the  epistle  to  the  Colossians.     Nine  of 


190  THE    RECORDS 

human  nature  of  Christ  our  Lord  :  and  time  to  discourse 
[with]  Elizabeth  Jordan  somewhat  further,  for  their  satisfac- 
tion concerning  the  truth  of  the  work  of  grace  upon  her 
soul ;  so  these  were  all  made  to  wait  a  month  longer,  till 
satisfaction  received. 

Brother  Robert  Lewis,  and  sister  Elizabeth  Willis,  with 
sister  Ship,  of  Woolland,  where  our  brother  Jennings  used 
to  preach,  were  propounded  on  the  fourth  day  of  the  first 
month,  1672  [1673];  and  it  being  a  day  of  prayer,  they  were 
then  spoken  with,  and  they  gave  an  account  of  the  work  of 
grace  upon  their  hearts ;  with  which  three,  the  church,  after 
they  were  sent  away,  declared  their  satisfaction. 

Upon  the  ninth  day  of  the  first  month,  1672  [1673],  nine 
of  these  persons  above,  namely,  brother  Henry  Davis,  brother 
Nicolas  Gregory,  brother  Robert  Lewis,  sister  Mary  Field, 
sister  Mary  Young,  sister  Elizabeth  Willis,  sister  Elizabeth 
Jordan,  sister  Bathsheba  Sulmer,  being  persons  the  church 
had  received  satisfaction  in,  were  admitted  members  of  this 
congregation,  at  the  Lord's  supper ;  having  been  baptized, 
all  nine  together,  upon  the  seventh  day  of  the  said  first 
month  beforementioned. 

Upon  the  fourth  day  of  said  first  month,  1672  [1673],  the 
church  sent  two  brethren,  namely,  brother  Reeves  and  bro- 
ther Courtny,  to  one  sister  Evans,  without  Lawford's  Gate,  to 
admonish  her  to  keep  her  place,  and  if  not,  they  would  deal 
further  with  her  for  hearing  the  quakers.  She,  with  her 
husband,  had  communion  with  us  for  some  time,  but  were 
not  members  with  us ;  but  of  some  church  near  Gloucester,  of 
the  free  will  judgment,  kin  to  quakers. 


of  a  church  of  christ.  191 

Anno  1673. 

Sister  Mary  Skinker  was,  after  further  speaking  with  her, 
and  satisfaction  received,  added  to  this  congregation  on  the 
sixth  day  of  second  month,  1673. 

Sister  Bird,  on  the  Key,  deceased  22nd  of  second  month, 
1673,  and  left  by  will,  to  one  of  the  brethren,  five  pounds, 
towards  stock  for  the  congregation. 

Upon  the  23rd  day  of  this  second  month,  1673,  a  sad 
providence  fell  out  to  this  congregation,  which  was  this :  — 
Our  brother  John  Fry,  a  bachelor,  fell  distracted.  First  it 
came  upon  him  in  a  way  of  despairing,  that  he  was  lost  and 
damned ;  then  he  brake  out  in  bad  language  to  all  the 
brethren  that  came  near  him,  calling  them  very  bad  names, 
and  immodest  expressions  to  some  women,  raving  and  strik- 
ing them  that  came  near  to  hold  him ;  and  when  they  were 
forced  to  bind  him  on  the  bed,  he  would  spit  at  some,  and 
use  such  vile  and  grievous  words,  it  was  consternation  of 
spirit  to  all  that  knew  him,  it  being  so  directly  opposite  and 
contrary  to  the  whole  frame  of  his  former  way  and  temper. 

And  being  thus  sorely  assaulted  and  pressed  by  the  devil, 
as  all  that  beheld  and  heard  him  could  not  otherwise  judge, 
he  did  also  (and  that  which  is  worse  than  all)  break  forth  into 
such  dreadful  and  horrible  expressions,  against  the  whole 
Deity,  at  some  times  with  such  blasphemous  words,  that  it 
made  the  hearts  of  all  that  heard  it  to  ache,  and  the  hair  of 
their  heads,  as  it  were,  to  stand  on  end :  and  their  spirits  to 
be  so  pressed  thereby,  hardly  able  to  contain,  or  to  be  in  the 
room  to  hear  it,  being  so  astonished  at  what  the  Lord  had 
suffered  to  befall  this  brother ;  that  had  the  testimony  of  all, 
good  and  bad,  that  he  had  a  very  lovely,  humble  conversa- 
tion, and  judged  that  he  walked  close  with  God,  as  was 
attested  by  a  godly,  judicious  doctor  of  physic,5  a  member  of 

5  [Dr.  Ichabod  Chauncey  had  been  ment,  at  Dunkirk,  but  on  the  passing  of 
chaplain  to  Sir  Edward  Harley's  regi-      the  Act  of  Uniformity  became  a  phj- 


192  THE    RECORDS 

another  congregation  in  this  city,  that  had  lived  several  years 
tabled  in  the  house  with  him,  having  a  grave  woman  to  his 
mother-in-law  that  kept  his  house,  she  being  a  sister  named 
Fry,  in  fellowship  with  us.  This  doctor  whilst  he  tabled 
there,  observed  him  all  along  to  be  a  very  sober,  practical 
Christian;  reading  and  praying  after  the  work  of  his  out- 
ward calling  (when  his  journeymen  were  departed,  and  his 
servants  had  left  work),  until  the  tenth  and  the  eleventh 
hour  most  nights. 

His  distraction  broke  in  upon  him  upon  the  fourth  day  of 
the  week  (called  Wednesday),  and  grew  higher  and  higher, 
into  great  raging,  as  aforesaid.  Physical  means  were  used, 
but  all  in  vain.  Most  peisauded  he  should  be  carried  into 
the  country  for  help.  But  some  of  the  brethren  desired  the 
church  might  seek  the  Lord,  by  fasting  and  prayer  to  the 
Lord,  to  heal  and  deliver  him. 

Whereupon,  the  second  day  following,  being  the  28th  day 
of  the  month,  the  congregation  kept  a  day  of  prayer,  in  our 
brother  Fry's  house,  and  in  the  room  where  he  was  in  the 
bed  bound ;  but  his  raging  was  so  great  in  the  beginning  of 
the  day,  that  we  thought  we  should  not  have  been  able  to 
have  continued  in  the  room.  Yet,  notwithstanding,  a  brother 
began  the  work  of  the  day  by  him,  and  the  day  was,  by  the 
Lord's  assistance,  carried  on,  and  a  gracious  answer  of  prayer 
was  given  by  the  Lord,  as  we  did  seem  to  apprehend,  inso- 
much that  the  spirit  of  rage  left  him  in  a  great  measure,  that 
it  ceased  by  the  evening  of  that  day,  before  we  parted  from 
him.     Praise  only  be  to  the  Lord  ! 

Upon  that  day  sevennight,  being  the  5th  of  the  third  month 
following,  the  church  came  together  again  into  the  same 
place,  and  kept  another  day  of  prayer  to  the  Lord  for  him. 

sician  in  Bristol.     He  was  prosecuted       in  1686.— Palmer's  Noncon.  Mem.  ii. 
under  the  35  Eliz.  and   banished    the       352.] 
realm  in  1684,  but  returned  to  Bristol 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  193 

For,  although  the  Lord  did  so  graciously  answer  the  church's 
former  prayers,  that  in  a  great  measure  the  spirit  of  raging 
left  him,  yet  a  great  spirit  of  fear  remained  in  him.  But  on 
this  day  also,  the  Lord  did  mercifully  incline  towards  us,  and 
gave  a  gracious  answer  to  his  people's  seeking  him  in  his  own 
way ;  so  that  very  observably  the  spirit  of  fear  left  him,  that 
he  was  not  so  much  in  horror  and  frightful  apprehensions  as 
he  had  been.  And  means  were  used  physically  for  his  reco- 
very, as  blooding,  purging,  and  leeching,  to  draw  the  distemper 
from  his  head;  according  to  our  prayers,  that  if  the  Lord 
pleased  to  have  us  use  outward  means,  that  he  would  direct- 
to  it,  and  bless  the  means :  which  he  compassionately  answered. 

But  when  he  began  to  come  to  himself,  and  his  poor  thin 
body,  that  had  been  plucked  down,  began  to  receive  some 
refreshment,  we  had  great  fears  his  distemper  would  have 
come  on  again  with  its  former  violence.  For  though  those 
his  fits  ceased  for  above  a  month,  yet  he  could  not  arrive  to 
any  comfort  or  faith,  and  could  hardly  be  prevailed  with  to 
go  to  prayer  himself;  he  lay  under  such  despairing  thoughts 
still,  that  it  was  all  in  vain,  no  promise  did  belong  to  him, 
nor  consolation  for  him,  &c.  But  he  lay  under  reflection 
upon  himself,  what  a  wretch  he  was  for  what  he  had  in  or  by 
fits  uttered  against,  or  of,  the  Lord.  By  which  we  perceived 
he  remembered  much,  if  not  all ;  so  that  he  was  filled  with 
such  shame,  that  he  would  hide  his  face  from  every  one  that 
came  to  see  him,  or  hang  down  his  head,  or  not  speak.  He 
was  so  filled  with  a  spirit  of  shame,  after  the  spirit  of  rage 
and  spirit  of  fear  had  left  him,  that  they  could  not  yet  pre- 
vail with  him  to  go  but  to  a  near  neighbour,  nor  hardly  to 
see  a  person  that  came  in. 

Therefore  the  church  appointed  another  day  of  prayer  for 
him,  and  so  came  together  again,  upon  the  ninth  day  of  the 
fourth  month  following,  anno  1673,  at  his  house,  to  seek  the 
Lord,  as  it  were  to  perfect  the  work  of  his  recovery,  to  take 

o 


194  THE    RECORDS 

the  spirit  of  shame  from  him,  that  he  might  go  about  his 
lawful  calling  forth  of  doors.  To  which  the  Lord  gave  a 
gracious  answer  of  prayer  also,  to  admiration.  For  the  very 
next  day  after  this,  he  was  emboldened  to  go  forth  about  his 
business  in  the  city,  as  he  did  formerly ;  yea,  he  went  from 
house  to  house,  about  his  occasions,  to  his  customers,  for  the 
space  of  four  or  five  hours,  and  returned.  Thus  the  Lord 
cast,  as  it  were,  three  spirits,  visible,  to  be  seen,  out  of  him : 
viz.,  a  spirit  of  uncleanness  for  rage  and  blasphemy  ;  secondly, 
a  spirit  of  horror  and  fear;  and  thirdly,  a  spirit  of  shame, 
and,  as  it  were,  dumbness.  Oh,  the  condescension,  mercy, 
grace,  favour,  and  faithfulness  of  the  God  and  Father  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  he  should  answer  prayer,  and  hear 
such  poor,  vile,  and  unworthy  ones  as  we  were !  Oh,  nothing 
in  us,  nothing  in  us  !  Not  for  our  sakes  did  he  this  wonder- 
ful thing  in  our  day,  but  for  his  own  name's  sake;  having 
engaged  himself  to  do  for  us  whatsoever  wre  ask  in  the  name 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Laus  Deo.  Sola  Deo  gloria. 
Whom,  to  this  day,  near  three  years  since  he  recovered,  the 
Lord  hath  kept  in  his  former  gracious  frame  of  spirit;  and 
he  usually  exercises  in  prayer,  in  the  congregation,  on  fast 
days,  as  formerly,  and  hath  been  very  well  ever  since  in  his 
body.     Magnified  be  the  Lord  ! 

This  brings  to  our  remembrance  to  record,  to  the  glory 
and  praise  of  the  Lord,  somewhat  of  the  like  goodness  of  the 
Lord  to  this  congregation  about  twenty  years  since.  One  of 
the  members  of  the  congregation,  sister  Tylly  by  name,  had 

a  daughter,  then  about years  of  age,  that  was  bewitched, 

as  [it  is]  termed ;  but  the  child  was  very  much  changed,  and 
had  strange  fits,  and,  as  it  wrere,  haunted  by  an  evil  spirit, 
that  it  would  say  such  a  woman  was  in  the  room ;  though 
they  carried  it  to  Bath.  The  whole  church  put  apart  a  day 
for  it  to  seek  the  Lord  by  fasting  and  prayer,  when  brother 
Jcssey  was  here,  and  the  child  was  restored  well  as  before, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  195 

and  [continues  well]  to  this  day.  The  glory  only  be  given 
to  our  God ! 

Upon  the  second  of  the  fifth  month,  anno  1673,  by  reason 
of  the  age,  and  then  sickness,  of  brother  Simpson,  near  unto 
death,  not  [being]  capable  to  perforin  the  deacon's  work,  and 
by  reason  of  the  decease  of  sister  West,  the  widow  or 
deaconness  of  the  church,  they  took  into  consideration  to 
elect  two  other;  whereupon,  the  said  day,  at  our  pastor's 
house,  it  being  a  day  of  prayer,  the  congregation  chose 
brother  Mr.  John  Ford  to  be  a  deacon,  and  sister  Murray  to 
be  a  widow  or  deaconness  to  the  church ;  thus  being  elected, 
and  set  apart,  by  prayer  they  are  recommended  to  the  work 
upon  trial. 

Brother  Thomas  Jacob,  brother  Edward  Willis,  sister 
Mary  Hawkins,  and  sister  Mary  Evans,  being  before  pro- 
posed, and  spoken  with,  and  the  church  [having]  received 
satisfaction  concerning  the  work  of  grace,  which,  in  charity, 
according  to  their  several  declarations,  is  hoped  to  be  in 
truth,  they  were  all  four  baptized  in  the  river  Frome,  upon 
the  fourth  of  fifth  month,  1673,  by  Mr.  Thomas  Jennings, 
minister,  and  the  church's  administrator  for  the  ordinance  of 
baptism ;  and  they  were  all  four  admitted  members  of  this 
congregation,  upon  the  sixth  day  of  the  said  fifth  month, 
anno  1673,  at  breaking  of  bread. 

Sister  Francis  Hill  was  proposed  the  sixth  day  of  the 
sixth  month,  1673,  and  then  spoken  with  to  the  satisfaction 
of  the  church;  she  was  baptized  into  the  faith  the  19th  of 
the  seventh  month,  anno  1673,  and  admitted  a  member  of 
this  congregation,  by  the  pastor,  on  the  suffrage  of  the  whole 
church ;  who,  by  their  sign  (when  the  person  hath  passed  their 
former  approbation,  and  [is]  presented  for  admission),  being 
silent  for  some  space,  declare  their  satisfaction,  in  charity,  of 
her  conversion  and  suitable  conversation ;    and  so  she  was 

o  2 


106  THE    RECORDS 

admitted  into  the  congregation,  the  21st  day  of  the  seventh 
month,  anno  1673. 

Upon  the  first  of  the  ninth  month,  1673,  the  church  kept 
a  day  of  thanksgiving  for  the  mercy  bestowed  in  brother 
Fry's  restoration ;  wherein  he  himself  prayed,  as  the  mouth 
of  the  church,  in  the  after  part  of  the  day ;  and  in  the  close 
joined  with  them  in  singing  a  psalm  of  praise. 

The  fifth  of  ninth  month,  1673,  sister  Bryan,  an  aged 
outward  poor  member,  but  a  very  spiritual  woman,  followed 
with  sore  temptations  many  years : — when  the  messenger  of 
death  came  for  her,  found  her  at  prayer,  then  she  took  her 
bed  [the]  said  day,  and  departed  about  a  week  after. 

Sister  Lydia  Purnell,  and  sister  Sarah  Llewellyn,  of  Man- 
gotsfield,  in  the  county  of  Gloucester,  were  propounded  and 
spoken  with,  upon  the  ninth  day  of  tenth  month,  1673  ; 
satisfaction  being  received  from  their  declaration,  they  were 
baptized,  the  12th  day  of  said  month,  and  upon  the  14th  day 
of  tenth  month,  anno  1673,  they  were  admitted  members  of 
this  congregation. 

Anno  1674. 

Sister  Webber,  an  aged  member,  deceased  first  of  the 
twelfth  month,  1673-4,  being  about  eighty  years  of  age. 
Interred  at  Philip's. 

Aged  brother  Pierce  departed  this  life  26th  of  the  first 
month,  1674,  and  [was]  buried  at  Philip's. 

Memorandum.  Upon  the  19th  day  of  the  third  month, 
anno  1674,  the  church  being  assembled  on  a  day  of  prayer, 
[and]  having  taken  it  into  consideration,  that  Mr.  Thomas 
Hardcastle  had  now  been  near  three  years  set  apart,  by  this 
church,  upon  trial  for  the  office  of  a  pastor  to  this  congrega- 
tion, they  now  come  to  determine  the  matter.  Thereupon, 
by  one  of  the  elders,  these  two  questions  are  propounded: — 

First,  of  the  congregation  it  was  demanded,  Whether  they, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  197 

upon  this  long  trial,  were  satisfied  to  choose  him,  the  said 
Mr.  Hardcastle,  to  be  their  pastor,  having  had  now  experience 
of  his  qualification  thereto,  both  as  to  his  gifts  and  grace: 
and  if  they  were  all  satisfied  to  choose  him  to  be  their  pastor, 
under  Christ,  and  that  he  should  be  ordained  to  the  said 
office  among  them  ?  It  was  then  required,  that  every  mem- 
ber present  should  declare  their  assent,  consent,  and  choice, 
by  their  lifting  up  their  right  hands  to  the  Lord;  which 
accordingly,  every  member,  both  men  and  women,  did, 
immediately  and  unanimously,  lift  up  their  hand  to  the 
Lord ;  and  so  on  the  church's  part  it  was  done.  After  this, 
the  elder,  applying  his  speech  to  Mr.  Hardcastle,  and, 

Secondly,  demands,  by  way  of  entreaty,  of  the  said  Mr. 
Thomas  Hardcastle,  Whether  he  was  satisfied,  after  this 
long  trial  of  us,  to  accept  of  this  the  church's  choice  of  him? 
To  which  Mr.  Hardcastle  agreeing,  standing  up,  said  and 
declared,  That  the  leading  argument  that  brought  him  hither, 
upon  the  church's  call  to  him,  was  service  for  his  Lord  and 
Master,  Jesus  Christ;  and  upon  the  experience  of  the 
Lord's  owning  him  here  in  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for 
the  bringing  in  of  souls,  as  he  hoped  truly,  to  Christ,  as 
much,  if  not  more  than  he  might  have  expected  elsewhere ; 
from  whence,  for  his  own  part,  he  was  willing  to  continue 
here,  and  to  accept  of  the  office  of  pastor  to  this  church : 
desiring,  before  he  be  ordained,  that  endeavours  be  used  to 
the  church  in  London,  from  whence  he  came,  that  they  may 
grant  him  a  letter  of  dismission.  To  which  the  church  pro- 
mised that  they  would  use  endeavours  to  send  once  more  to 
that  church  for  to  dismiss  him. 

Thus,  Eben-Ezer,  the  Lord  hath  hitherto  helped  us,  and 
settled  us  once  more  with  a  pastor,  that  that  business  was  so 
unanimously  and  heartily  finished,  and  closed  on  both  sides. 
There  remains  now  only  ordination,  by  laying  on  of  hands, 
to  this  church,  for  order,  according  to  holy  scripture  rule. 


198  THE    RECORDS 


Letter  from  a  church  of  Christ  in  Bristol. 

To  the  church  of  Christ  formerly  walking  with  Mr.  Jessey,  now 
with  our  dearly  beloved  brother  Fitten,  and  brother  Forty  : 
all  grace  and  peace  be  multiplied. 

Dearly  Beloved  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, — About  three 
months  since,  we  perceived,  by  a  letter  from  you  unto  our  pastor, 
Mr.  Thomas  Hardcastle,  that  you  did  expect  an  answer  of  the 
last  letter  from  you  to  us,  dated  the  fifth  month,  1671,5  which 
letter  did  inform  us  of  our  mistake  in  some  things,  and  of  our 
irregular  proceedings  in  calling  of  Mr.  Hardcastle,  before  he  had 
given  his  answer  of  refusal  to  that  setting  him  apart  by  you,  for 
approbation  of  the  church,  with  his  consent ;  which,  when  we 
thoroughly  understood,  and  after  he  had  declared  his  non-accept- 
ance of  your  so  setting  him  apart ;  and  after  he  came  down  to  us 
again,  with  his  family  ; — in  the  interim,we  having  conferred  about 
the  case  with  brother  Harrison,  deceased,  then  pastor  of  the 
church  of  Petty  France  6 — and  considering  your  letter  aforesaid 
with  his  advice,  we  did  let  fall  our  former  call,  and  gave  him  a 
new  call  after  his  second  coming  down ;  thus  retracting  our 
former  act. 

We  hoped  you  had  been  satisfied  thereby,  having  some  trouble 
that  we  should  act  [in]  anything,  to  your  apprehension,  irregular, 
and  thereby  should  minister  grief  to  any,  especially  to  you,  our 
beloved  sister  church,  with  whom  we  have  had  occasion  of  cor- 
respondence   for   many   years    past,    and    also    from    which   we 

9  [See  before,  p.  151.]  a    mistake.       His    son,    Mr.   Thomas 

6  [Mr.  William  Collins  and  Dr.  Nehe-  Harrison,  was  called  to  the  work  of  the 

miah  Cox,  the  successors  of  Mr.  Harri-  ministry  by  the  church  in  1G89,  and  on 

son,  were  ordained  on  the  21st  July,  Dr.  Cox's  death  succeeded  him  in  the 

1675.     Mr.  Harrison's  relation    to  the  elder's  office,   and  as  assistant  to   Mr. 

church   in    Petty   France  was  unknown  Collins.     About  1(>99  he  became  pastor 

both  to  Mr.  Iviniev  and  to  Mr.  Wilson.  of  a  newly  formed  church  at  Lorimer's 

Bj  the  former  lie  is  supposed  to  have  Hall  ;    but    died    suddenly    after   three 

resigned  his  charge  before  their  ordina-  years' ministry  among  them. — lvimey,ii. 

tion.     This,  as  appears  from  the  text,  is  407.     Wilson,  ii.  187.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  199 

received  help  time  after  time  ;  for  which,  next  after  the  Lord,  we 
return  you  thanks,  for  the  Lord  hath  made  you  instrumental  for 
our  good,  by  your  late  pastor,  that  worthy  and  holy  man,  brother 
Jessey.  And  those  kindnesses  formerly  received  from  you,  we 
trust  they  were  services  done  by  you  to  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
for  the  advancement  of  his  interest  and  truth.  And  this  last 
benefit  we  received  from  you,  in  sparing  our  honoured  brother 
and  pastor,  Mr.  Hardcastle,  we  trust  will  redound  to  your 
account  in  the  day  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  that  this  loan  by 
you  was  to  the  Lord,  for  his  use  here. 

And,  therefore,  we  pray  you,  beloved,  to  pass  by  and  forgive 
what  you  esteem  was  amiss  in  our  acting,  in  that  day  of  our 
necessity.  And,  also,  we  entreat  you  to  grant  a  dismission  of 
our  brother  Hardcastle  aforesaid  unto  us ;  and  that  there  may 
be  a  continuance  of  that  former  kindness,  and  amicable  corre- 
spondency, between  you  and  us ;  and  that  our  prayers  for  each 
other  may  be,  that  we  may  be  to  the  glory  of  the  Lord  in  our 
day,  and  be  kept  faithful  to  him,  to  the  end  that  we  might  be 
filled  with  the  knowledge  of  his  will,  and  walk  worthy  of  the 
Lord,  strengthened  with  all  might,  according  to  his  glorious  power, 
giving  thanks  unto  the  Father,  who  hath  delivered  us  from  the 
power  of  darkness,  and  hath  translated  us  into  the  kingdom  of  his 
Son,  by  whom  are  all  things,  and  to  whom  be  power  and  glory, 
for  ever  and  ever.     Amen. 

Signed  by  the  appointment  of  the  congregation. 

Bristol,  this  29th  of  the  first  month  [March],  1674. 


200  THE    RECORDS 

Letter  from   a  church  of  Christ  in  London. 

To  the  church  of  Christ  in  Bristol,  with  whom  our  beloved 
brother  Hardcastle  at  present  is ;  all  grace,  mercy,  and  peace, 
from  God  our  Father,  and  from  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  be 
multiplied  evermore. 

Dearly  beloved  in  our  dear  Lord, — We  received  yours 
of  the  29th  of  the  first  month,  which  was  read  amongst  us,  and 
considered  by  us,  but  without  any  satisfaction ;  much  rather 
ministering  matter  of  trouble  and  grief  to  us.  The  reasons  of 
our  non-satisfaction,  as  likewise  the  ground  of  our  trouble,  we 
shall  briefly  signify  to  you,  and  leave  with  you  to  be  considered, 
if  possible  it  may  beget  a  better  understanding  betwixt  us. 

You  say,  our  last  letter  to  you  did  inform  you  of  your  mistake 
in  some  things,  and  of  irregularity  in  your  calling  Mr.  Hard- 
castle, &c.  But  what  those  some  things  are,  in  which  you 
were  informed  of  mistake,  you  tell  us  not ;  except  you  intend 
thereby  the  capacity  Mr.  Hardcastle  stood  in  amongst  us  ;  which, 
we  suppose,  you  can  scarce  intend,  you  knowing  as  much  of  that 
before  by  former  letters  as  in  our  last. 

As  to  the  irregularity  in  your  call  of  Mr.  Hardcastle,  you  say, 
upon  his  second  coming  down  you  retracted  your  call,  which  you 
hoped  had  been  satisfaction  to  us.  But  we  marvel  much,  how 
you  could  think  we  should  be  satisfied  with  that  you  never  signi- 
fied to  us.  But,  secondly,  we  wonder  how  you  should  think  your 
retracting  the  act  should  be  satisfaction  to  us.  We  judgefd]  it 
irregular  and  sinful;  and  doth  the  simple  retracting  of  an  act 
take  off  the  sin  ?  But,  thirdly,  you  say  you  gave  him  a  new 
call.  But  how  do  you  think  this  should  be  satisfactory  to  us  for 
the  error  of  the  first,  though  it  had  been  never  so  regular  in  itself, 
much  less  being,  as  we  judge,  as  irregular  as  the  Hist  I  For 
though  some  circumstances  might  seem  to  lessen,  others  did 
much  more  greaten  the  irregularity  of  it  ;  therefore  no  way  satis- 
factory to  us. 

But,  you   proceed   to  tell  us,  you  are  troubled  you  should  act 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  201 

anything  to  our  apprehension  irregular,  and  desire  us  to  forgive, 
and  pass  by,  what  we  esteem  was  amiss  in  your  actings.  Truly, 
brethren,  we  hope  we  should  be  in  readiness  to  pass  by  and 
forgive  what  we  apprehend  and  esteem  you  did  misact,  did  you 
apprehend  and  esteem  so  of  it,  and  ingenuously  confess  it ;  but 
we  cannot  be  satisfied  that  we  ought  to  pass  it  by,  upon  your 
saying  you  are  troubled  that  you  acted  anything  that  we  appre- 
hend or  esteem  amiss.  Nor  know  we  what  it  is  we  are  to  forgive, 
indeed,  except  it  be  ourselves  for  misapprehending  or  misesteem- 
ing  your  actings,  which  yet  we  see  no  cause  for  ;  but  do  still 
apprehend  that  you  have  been  irregular  in  this  whole  affair,  both 
in  your  first  and  second  call  of  our  brother  amongst  you,  and 
that  you  can  give  no  regular  call  to  him,  till  you  have  our  assent 
so  to  do,  or  at  least  remove  those  things  which  justly  hinder  our 
concurrence  therein  ;  which  you  have  not  attempted,  neither  by 
acknowledging  the  evil  we  charged  you  with,  nor  endeavouring 
to  rectify  our  mistake,  and  clearing  yourselves. 

But  as  we  are  not  satisfied  with  your  lines,  so  we  are  grieved 
at  some  passages  in  them.  First,  that  you  should  say  you  were 
somewhat  troubled  that  you  should  act  [in]  anything  to  our 
apprehension  irregular,  reflecting  therein  upon  your  first  call,  and 
that  yet  you  should  proceed  to  a  second  call,  without  ever 
acquainting  us  that  you  were  troubled  you  had  offended  us  in  the 
first.  Especially,  you  having  our  letter  by  you,  expressing  our 
offence,  [how]  could  you  think  that  while  we  had  not  satisfaction 
in  our  offence  with  your  first  call,  that  you  could  proceed  to  any 
farther  call,  without  farther,  and  so  greater  offence  ?  How  this 
doth  manifest  your  trouble,  we  are  not  able  to  see,  and  desire  you 
may  consider,  and  if  you  can  make  it  consistent,  we  shall  be  glad 
to  be  rectified  by  you. 

But,  secondly,  we  are  much  more  grieved  that  you  should  say, 
that  this  last  benefit,  in  sparing  our  brother  Hardcastle,  you  hope 
will  redound  to  our  account  in  the  day  of  Christ,  in  that  the  loan 
by  us  was  to  the  Lord.  Dear  brethren,  did  you,  while  you  wrote 
this,  consider  you  were  answering  a  letter,  wherein  this  church 
chargeth    you    with    irregular    and    wrongful    taking    away    our 


202  THE    RECORDS 

beloved  brother  from  us  ?  How  can  you  say  we  spared  him,  and 
lent  him  to  the  Lord,  in  his  coming  to  you  ?  when  all  that  have 
had  occasion  to  know  the  affair  know  the  contrary ;  that  it  was 
utterly  to  our  dissatisfaction,  and  against  the  utmost  endeavours 
this  poor  church  could  use,  in  that  confused  condition  they  were 
put  by  your  means.  We  wonder  how  you  can  say,  You  hope  it 
will  redound  to  our  account.  Shall  our  utmost  endeavours  to 
hinder,  redound  to  our  account  as  sparing  him  to  you  ? 

Thus  having  given  you  a  brief  account  of  our  non-satisfaction, 
and  the  grounds,  both  of  that,  as  also  of  our  renewed  grief 
and  trouble,  we  shall  conclude  in  a  brief  answer  to  your  request, 
for  a  dismission  for  our  brother  Hardcastle. 

If  we  should  consider  your  whole  letter  as  you  have  worded  it, 
it  may  seem  strange  that  you  should  desire  a  dismission,  if,  as 
you  say,  we  have  lost  him,  and  you  have  called  him,  and  he  is 
your  pastor.  What  need  of  a  dismission  to  you,  except  it  be  to 
satisfy  us  ?  And  truly,  it  is  no  part  of  our  dissatisfaction,  that 
you  have  not  put  us  to  dismiss  our  brother  all  this  time.  But, 
secondly,  we  cannot  dismiss  our  brother  to  you,  nor  approve  his 
present  being  with  you,  until  such  time  as  we  have  satisfaction 
from  you  for  the  irregularity  we  have  charged  against  you,  or 
you  convince  us  of  our  mistake.  For  we  judge  your  proceedings 
so  disorderly,  that  we  dare  have  no  fellowship  therewith;  and 
that  the  precedent,  thereby  given,  may  be  of  such  bad  con- 
sequence, if  followed,  as  would  bring  all  the  churches  into  confu- 
sion, that  none  should  know  when  they  have  a  member  or  a 
minister.  But  should  we  answer  your  desire  in  dismissing  our 
dearth rother,  should  we  not  therein  both  contradict  you,  in  some 
sense,  and  manifestly  contradict  ourselves?  We  are  troubled 
that  we  have  occasion  to  write  after  this  manner,  and  that  we 
cannot  answer  your  desire  without  wrong  to  our  consciences,  and 
wrong  to  the  [truth.  We  desire  you  will  seriously  consider  our 
lines,  bear  our  plainness,  and  pass  by  or  rectify  any  mistake,  as 
we  have  endeavoured  both  in  yours. 

We  shall  not  add  farther,  but  commend  you  to  the  Lord  for 
light  and  guidance  in  this  affair;  that  you  may  not  strive  to  have 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  203 

it  done  but  so  as  both  you,  our  dear  brother,  and  we  may  have 
grounded  comfort  in  it ;  which  will,  if  we  part  with  our  brother, 
be  our  comfort  to  see. 

We  remain, 
Your  unworthy  brethren  in  the  Lord, 
James  Fitten,  Nathanael  Crabb, 

Henry  Forty,7  Richard  Irish, 

Michael  D unwell,  Joseph  Mason. 

Thomas  Chappell, 

London.     Signed  by  the  appointment  of  the  church  the  12th 
of  the  second  month,  1674. 


Letter*  from  a  church,  of  Christ  in  Bristol,  ivalhng  with  our  beloved 
brother  Hardcastle,  this  30 th  of  the  second  month,  1674. 

To  that  church  of  Christ  in  London,  with  whom  our  dearly 
beloved  brethren,  James  Fitten,  and  Henry  Forty,  at  present 
are ;  all  grace,  mercy,  and  peace  from  God  our  Father,  and 
from  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  be  multiplied. 

Dearly  Beloved  in  our  precious  Lord  Jesus, — We  re- 
ceived yours  of  the  12th  instant,  which  makes  us  cry  out  with 
the  prophet,  Is  there  no  balm  in  Gilead?    is  there  no  physician 

7  [After  twelve  years'  confinement  in  settled  at  Abingdon.     He  was  a  man  of 

Exeter   gaol,   under    the    Restoration,  great   piety,   and    long    and  faithfully 

Mr.  Forty  came  to  London,  and  became  served  Jesus  Christ,  under  many  afflic- 

pastor  of  Mr.  Jessey's  church,  of  which  tions,  great  trials  and  sufferings,  living 

he  had  been  a  member.     A  division  on  an  unspotted  life.     He  died  in  1692. — 

the  question   of  admitting  the  unbap-  Ivimey,  ii.  66.     Devonshire  Square  Ch. 

tized  to  the  Lord's  table,  led  to  a  sepa-  Records,  MS.  A.] 
tion.     Mr.  Forty,  with  about  forty  per-  8  [The   original   letter,  addressed  to 

sons,  adhered  to  the  stricter  sentiment,  Mr.  James  Fitten,  is  preserved  among 

and  subsequently  united  with  the  church  the  records.] 
in    Devonshire   Square.      Tn    1675   he 


204  THE    RECORDS 

there  ?  &c. ;  for  we  perceive  you  have  been  dissecting  our  lines  to 
you,  as  though  they  were  endeavours  to  take  what  advantage  you 
could  against  us.  To  which  we  might  say  much,  if  we  would 
tread  in  that  path  (not  to  say  more)  ;  but  we  are  willing  to  walk 
in  the  spirit  of  our  Lord  and  Master  as  much  as  in  us  lieth ; 
learning  in  meekness  to  follow  peace,  and  are  willing  to  make  the 
best  construction  of  all  that  you  write  in  your  last ;  hoping  you 
endeavour  that  sin  may  not  be  upon  us,  this  church  of  Christ; 
as,  also,  not  upon  yourselves,  seeing  you  say,  you  should  readily 
pass  by  and  forgive  what  you  did  apprehend  we  did  act  amiss, 
did  we  ingenuously  confess  it ;  which  was  the  intent  of  our  last 
letter  to  you,  which,  not  to  say  you  misconstrued,  but  misunder- 
stood. Therefore,  briefly  thus.  The  thing  that  made  all  our 
former  acting  to  be  evil,  of  which  brother  Harrison,  of  Petty 
France,  late  deceased,  gave  us  light  in,  was  this :  That  we  had 
called  Mr.  Hardcastle  to  be  our  pastor,  he  being  set  apart  by  you 
upon  trial,  before  he  had  given  you  his  denial  of  acceptance  of 
that  place  among  you.  Therefore  dear  brother  Harrison  gave  us 
advice  to  let  fall  our  first  call  as  irregular,  and  to  give  him 
another  call,  after  he  had  signified  to  you  his  non-acceptance  of 
the  office  among  you.  And  so,  according  to  his  advice  we 
did.  Being  then  sensible  of  our  evil  in  that  first  irregular  call, 
we  did  retract ;  and  to  do  so,  and  to  tell  you  we  did  so,  was 
sufficient,  according  to  the  rule  of  our  Lord,  [for  you]  to  have 
passed  it  by.  For  which  irregular  call  we  might  say  this,  though 
we  would  not  be  understood,  as  that  we  went  about  to  palliate 
our  evil,  yet  we  may  let  you  know  what  led  us  unto  it ;  which 
was  this,  that  we  had  gathered  by  some  persons  and  reports  in 
London,  not  from  dear  Mr.  Hardcastle,  but  from  others,  as  that 
there  was  such  occasion  of  offence  given  among  you,  that  they 
knew  he  would  not  settle  among  you  in  office,  wherever  he  did. 
Which  rumour,  together  with  his  coming  down  to  us,  made  us 
embrace  the  opportunity,  because  of  our  necessity.  Which  we 
do  not  justify  was  regular,  but  do  confess  our  disorder  and  sin 
therein,  hoping  the  Lord  hath  and  will  pardon  us  therein;  there- 
fore, we  pray  you  for  peace,  &c. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  205 

Were  it  your  case,  we  should  have  been  loth  to  set  up  ourselves 
in  the  place  of  God,  and  ask  that  question,  that  is  only  proper 
for  him,  which  you  do  in  querying, — Doth  the  simple  retracting 
of  an  act  take  off  the  sin  ?  We  hope  you  have  better  learned 
Christ,  to  know  that  it  is  neither  your  nor  our  retracting,  nor  yet 
confessing  of  sin,  but  the  blood  of  Christ  that  cleanseth  us  from 
all  sin  ;  which  we  flee  to  for  this,  as  for  all  other  sins.  And 
though  we  desire  to  tremble  before  the  Lord,  considering  his 
purity,  judging  ourselves  that  we  may  not  be  judged,  and,  there- 
fore, confessed  not  only  to  the  Lord,  but  to  you  our  miscarriage 
in  that  haste,  wherein  we  perceived  was  some  irregularity ;  we 
have  cause  of  rejoicing  that  in  case  of  retraction  for  sin,  we  have 
God  to  deal  with,  and  not  man.  Yet  we  again  pray  you,  for 
peace'  sake,  and  as  God  for  Christ's  sake  hath  forgiven  you,  to 
forgive  us ;  and  to  grant  a  dismission  from  you  to  us  of  our 
dearly  beloved  brother  Mr.  Thomas  Hardcastle,  whom  God  hath 
so  eminently  blessed  and  owned,  since  he  came  hither  and  sat 
down  with  us.  And  we  also  beg  your  prayers,  that  the  Lord  will 
continue  his  presence  with  him  in  this  church,  where  the  Lord  by 
his  providence  hath  placed  him,  to  the  exaltation  of  his  free  grace 
in  Jesus  Christ,  the  conversion  of  sinners,  the  promoting  his 
truth,  and  building  up  the  church  in  their  holy  faith,  to  his 
eternal  praise  and  our  consolation ;  which  are,  and  shall  be,  our 
prayers  for  you,  and  for  those  that  God  hath  set  over  you ;  that 
both  we  and  you,  and  the  called  in  Christ  Jesus,  may  be  com- 
plete in  him,  and  our  spirits  also  prepared  to  meet  the  Son  of 
man ;  for  the  coming  of  our  Lord  draweth  nigh,  who  is  the  only 
potentate,  the  King  of  kings,  and  Lord  of  lords,  the  only  wise 
God  our  Saviour ;  to  whom  be  glory  and  majesty,  dominion  and 
power,  both  now  and  for  ever.     Amen. 

Signed  in  the  name,  and  at  the  appointment,  of  the  church,  by 
your  brethren  in  the  mercies  of  the  Father  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
Edward  Terrill,  Robert  Bodenham, 

Richard  White,  John  Fry, 

Thomas  Reeve,  Jeremiah  Courtney, 

John  Ford,  James  Bland. 

Nathanael  Snead, 


206  THE    RECORDS 

Sister  Whitehead,  alias  Tanner,  died  tenth  of  the  fourth 
month,  1674,  and  [was]  interred  at  Philip's. 

Letter. 9     No.  1. 

The  church  of  Christ  in  Gloucester,  to  the  church  of  Christ  in 
Bristol,  walking  with  brother  Hardcastle. 

Beloved  Brethren, — We  salute  you  in  the  Lord,  desiring 
grace,  mercy,  and  peace,  may  be  multiplied  among  you.  The 
occasion  of  our  writing  unto  you,  is  to  desire  you  to  send  our 
beloved  brother  Thomas  Jennings,  to  help  us  to  carry  on  the 
ordinance  of  the  Lord's  supper  with  our  friends  at  Framilow.  For 
our  friends  much  desire  him,  for  to  assist  them  in  the  Lord's 
work,  and  we  hope  your  hearts  will  be  enlarged  in  love  to  the 
Lord,  and  his  truth,  and  us  his  people ;  who  do  greatly  rejoice  to 
see  the  hearts  of  the  people  much  desiring  those  opportunities 
that  are  afforded  us  at  this  day,  and  we  do  hope  that  some  choice 
work  of  grace  will  be  wrought  upon  them,  to  endear  their  hearts 
to  the  Lord  and  his  ways ;  and  we  commend  you  to  the  Lord, 
and  the  word  of  his  grace, 

And  remain, 
Your  brethren  in  the  faith  of  our  Lord  Jesus. 
Signed  by  us,  in  behalf  of  the  whole, — 

John  Hooper,  Robert  Jackson, 

Thomas  Cowls,  Robert  Beale, 

John  David,  Christ.  Ludlow. 

James  Walker, 
Gloucester,  the  12th  day  of  the  fifth  month,  1674. 

Brother  Richard  White,  an  elder  of  this  congregation,  was 
taken  ill  at  the  meeting,  as  he  was  writing  the  sermon,  16th 
of  the  sixth  month,  went  home,  and  died  the  24th  following. 
So  that  when  the  Lord's  messenger  came,  [he]  found  him 

s  [The  following  letters  relate  to  a  be  confounded  with  that  church  col- 
church,  of  which  no  other  memorials  lected  by  Mr.  Forbes,  and  mentioned  in 
appear  to  be  in  existence.     It  must  not       a  previous  page.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  207 

well  doing.     He  was  an  humble,  self-denying  man,  and  bad 
a  great  gift  in  prayer. 

Letter.     No.  2. 

The  church  of  Christ  in  Gloucester  sendeth  greeting  to  the 
church  of  Christ  in  Bristol,  walking  with  brother  Hardcastle ; 
all  grace,  mercy,  and  peace  be* multiplied. 

Dearly  beloved  Brethren, —  We  salute  you  in  the  Lord. 
Beloved,  we  received  your  epistle,  with  your  Christian  advice  to 
us,  which  is  very  good,  and  we  hope  to  reap  the  benefit  thereof. 
But  as  to  that  information  of  our  forsaking  the  assembling  of 
ourselves  together,  for  the  admonishing  and  building  up  each 
other,  [it]  is  false ;  for  through  the  goodness  of  the  Lord,  and  his 
assisting  grace,  we  have  been  together  comfortably.  Though 
with  weak  means,  yet  we  hope  we  can  say  our  hearts  have  not 
declined  the  ways  of  the  Lord ;  and  we  have  found  his  blessing 
and  presence  going  along  with  us,  though  we  be  a  poor  people  as 
to  outward  things.  For  had  it  been  otherwise,  we  should  have 
had  supplies  enough. 

And  as  to  our  not  dealing  with  those  of  unsound  judgments, 
our  dependence  was  more  upon  the  other  churches,  and  we  sent 
our  messenger  to  them  for  assistance,  and  they  put  us  to  deal 
with  them  ourselves,  and  accordingly  we  did  deal  with  them,  by 
way  of  admonition,  and  so  they  remain ;  and  we  shall  desire 
your  assistance  as  to  a  further  pressing  with  them,  and  also  your 
assistance  to  carry  on  the  meeting  at  Framilow  and  Whitmister. 
We  hope  you  will  not  be  backward  in  it,  because  the  glory  of 
God,  and  the  good  of  sinners  is  concerned  therein  ;  and  so  we 
commend  you  to  the  Lord,  and  the  word  of  his  grace,  which  is 
able  to  establish  you,  strengthen  you,  and  build  you  up. 

Signed  by  appointment  of  the  whole,  4th  eighth  month,  1674. 
John  David,  Robert  Beale, 

Anthony  Sandess,  Thomas  Cowles, 

James  Walker,  Robert  Jackson. 

John  Hooper, 


208  THE    RECORDS 

Twenty-third  of  the  eighth  month,  old  Mrs.  Katherine 
Terrill,  aged  seventy-five  years ;  who,  though  she  was  no 
actual  member,  [was]  yet  a  constant  hearer,  and  attended 
for  many  years  with  the  church.  She  then  deceased  in  the 
faith,  and  she  left  by  will  that  her  son  Edward  should  pay 
five  pounds  to  the  congregation's  use. 

Letter.     No.  3. 

The  church  of  Christ  at  Gloucester,  to  the  church  of  Christ  in 
Bristol,  walking  with  our  brother  Thomas  Hardcastle,  sendeth 
greeting. 

Dearly  beloved  Brethren, — The  great  God  hath  of  his 
mercy,  given  us  a  great  desire  to  walk  in  all  the  ordinances  of  our 
blessed  Lord  Jesus  blameless,  and  we  are  in  very  great  hopes 
that  our  hearts  will  be  knit  together  in  love,  that  we  may,  in  a 
sense,  walk  worthy  of  God,  and  give  light  to  those  that  sit  in 
darkness.  But  in  the  pursuit  thereof  we  find  an  outward  weak- 
ness, by  reason  we  are  very  poor ;  and,  therefore,  we  would  beg 
your  assistance,  that  as  we  endeavour  the  promotion  of  the 
gospel  on  the  one  hand,  we  may  keep  it  from  scandals  on  the 
other.  Truly,  brethren,  our  complaint  is  not  without  need;  for 
by  reason  of  our  inability,  vision  hath  failed,  and  we  [are]  almost 
perished.  But  as  it  hath  pleased  God  now,  when  even  our 
hopes  were  almost  gone,  to  raise  us  up  to  stand  at  the  posts  of 
wisdom's  doors,  begging  help  from  him,  who  hath  given  us  great 
hopes  to  be  still  waiting.  Our  poor  are  crying  so  that  our  hearts 
do  ache  for  them,  and  without  helps  from  others  we  must,  of 
necessity,  be  a  reproach  to  the  world.  Brethren,  if  you  have 
any  bowels  of  compassion,  help  us  now  in  distress ;  if  not  for 
our  sakes,  yet  remember  Christ's  saying,  Matt.  x.  42,  if  it  be  so 
small  as  a  cup  of  water.     Consider  also  1  John  iii.  17,  18. 

Dear  brethren,  we  desire  only  for  the  sake  of  the  gospel,  that 
the  professors  thereof  may  not  be  brought  under  reproach,  and 
we  shall  have  cause  to  bless  our  God ;  and  we  would  desire  you 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  209 

also  to  bless  him,  for  putting  those  tilings  upon  our  hearts. 
We  commit  you  to  the  Lord  and  the  word  of  his  grace,  and 
remain  your  poor  brethren,  in  the  faith  and  hope  of  the  gospeL 
You  may  send  it  by  the  bearer,  our  brother  Jacksons.  He  and 
our  sister  Foster  are  in  very  great  want,  with  others. 

Signed  by  us  by  the  consent,  &c,  8th  10th  month,  1674. 

John  David,  John  Cooper, 

James  Walker,  Thomas  Cowls. 

Robert  Beale, 

Sister  Bailey  being  sent  for  up  to  London,  to  her  husband, 
at  his  then  being  there  for  some  time,  she  fell  sick,  and  con- 
tinued so  near  a  month.  Then  upon  their  journey  home- 
ward, by  coach,  she  died,  near  London,  eighth  of  the  tenth 
month,  1674 ;  but  [was]  brought  down  hither,  and  interred 
the  17th  day  of  tenth  month,  1674,  at  Stephen's. 

Mr.  Hardcastle :  note  to  have  me  go  to  Shirehampton  to  preach. 

7th  of  4  Mo.  1673. 
Dear  Brother, — It  is  much  upon  my  spirit  to  desire  you  to 
go  to  Shirehampton  to-morrow;  there  is  a  door  open,  and  the 
people  very  desirous  of  help.  Of  this  the  bearer  can  inform  you. 
Lay  aside  all  doubts  and  disputes,  and  resolve  to  go.  You  may 
make  but  one  meeting  of  it,  and  begin  between  ten  and  eleven. 
This  is  all  at  present. 

From  yours,  as  you  know, 

T.  H. 

I  know  not  a  more  open  door  in  the  country,  the  place  being 
altogether  destitute,  and  the  chapel  open,  where  all  sorts  will 
freely  come. 


210  THE    RECORDS 

Letter  from  the  church  at  Horton,1    Gloucestershire 

To  the  church  of  Christ  in  the  city  of  Bristol,  who  usually 
assemble  in  Broadmead,  with  whom  our  dearly  beloved  brother 
Hardcastle  walketh  as  pastor ;  we,  the  church  of  Christ  who 
usually  assemble  at  Horton,  in  the  county  of  Gloucester, 
send  greeting,  desiring  that  grace,  mercy,  and  peace,  from 
God  our  Father,  through  our  dear  Lord  Jesus,  may  be  multi- 
plied upon  you  all,  and  in  you  all ;  that  so  you  may  grow  in 
all  the  graces  of  the  most  Holy  Spirit,  and  at  length  be  found 
to  the  praise  of  his  glorious  grace. 

Dear  Brethren, — The  occasion  of  our  writing  unto  you  at 
present,  is  to  return  you  thanks  for  affording  that  assistance  you 
have  toward  the  carrying  on  the  work  of  the  Lord  at  Nymps- 
field,2  in  sparing  our  beloved  brethren,  brother  T.  Jennings  and 
brother  Terrill,  so  often  as  you  have.  Our  request  unto  you  is, 
that  you  will  be  pleased  to  continue  that  assistance ;  and  not  only 
our  request,  but,  indeed,  as  it  is  well  known,  we  suppose,  to  those 
brethren  with  you  which  have  been  there,  that  through  the  good- 
ness of  God  it  is  the  desire  of  some  hundreds  of  souls  which 
come  to  that  meeting.  You  will  find  the  names  of  some  of  them 
here  subscribed  in  the  name  of  the  whole. 

We  hope  we  have  no  need  to  use  any  arguments  to  provoke 
you  to  so  good  a  work,  considering  that  the  work  is  the  Lord's, 
though  a  self-denying  work.  We  pray  you  to  encourage  our 
brethren ;  send  them  to  help  the  Lord  against  the  mighty :  we 
mean  the  great  work  of  the  ministering  of  the  word  in  that  place, 
where  it  is  so  much  desired.     So  we  rest, 

Your  weak  and  unworthy  brethren  in  the  best  relation. 
Signed  by  us,  in  the  name,   and  by  the  appointment  of  the 

1  [A  brother  William  Warner  was  2  [At  the  general   assembly  of  the 

recommended  from  this  church  in  1669,  baptized  churches,  in  London,  in  1689, 

to   the   church  in   Devonshire  Square.  a    Mr.   Robert    Williams   appeared   as 

Of   this   church    no   other   information  minister  at    Nympsfield,  and   again  in 

is   known    to    exist. — See    Devonshire  1692. — Ivimey,  i.  505.     The  gospel  in 

Square  Records,  MS.  A.]  this  village  is  now  sustained  by  the  church 

at  Shortwood.j 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  211 

whole,  at  the  church  assembly,  this  27th  day  of  the  sixth  month, 
anno  Domini,  1673, — 

Richard  Bird,  Edward  Evans, 

Thomas  Evans,  Edward  Heaven, 

And  fourteen  others. 

Brother  John  Purnell,  brother  Thomas  Hall,  sister 
Kimbar,  sister  Mary  Smith,  of  Woolland,  in  the  county  of 
Gloucester,  with  sister  Jennings  (an  old  professor,  that  had 
long  walked  with  the  church,  reputed  an  independent,  and 
formerly  a  puritan,  and  wife  to  brother  Jennings,  adminis- 
trator of  the  ordinance  of  baptism  to  this  church),  together 
with  one  Mrs,  Bevis  that  had  proposed  to  join,  and  had 
declared  to  the  church  how  the  Lord  wrought  on  her,  and 
the  congregation  did  hope  it  was  in  truth.  But  it  was  not 
judged  convenient  to  admit  her,  by  reason  of  her  selling  of 
drink,  and  some  defects  in  her  conversation  about  her  hus- 
band's debts  that  he  had  contracted.  Yet,  upon  her  great  and 
often  desires  and  importunity  to  pass  under  the  ordinance  of 
baptism  to  obey  Christ,  the  administrator,  upon  her  profes- 
sion of  faith  and  repentance,  and  the  manner  how  she  was 
converted,  hoping  that  she  was  a  Christian,  and  regenerated, 
though  the  great  cumbrance  of  her  life,  through  a  bad 
husband,  had  cast  some  obloquy  and  obscurity  on  her  con- 
versation, [so]  that  her  willingness  to  walk  honestly  and  holy 
was  not  so  conspicuous  as  [in]  others  not  so  ensnared — yet 
she,  with  the  other  five  beforenamed,  all  six,  were  baptized 
in  the  river  Frome,  upon  the  22nd  day  of  the  third  month, 
anno  1674.  And  these  four,  namely,  brother  Purnell,  bro- 
ther Hall,  sister  Kimbar,  and  sister  Mary  Smith,  all  before- 
named,  were  added  to  the  church,  upon  the  24th  of  the  third 
month,  anno  1674.  But  Mrs.  Bevis,  notwithstanding,  was 
not  received  nor  admitted,  though  she  had  stood  propounded 
to  the  church  above  two  years  before. 

p  2 


212  THE    RECORDS 

Memorandum.  One  Mr.  Lewis,  an  ironmonger,  in  White 
Cross  Street,  in  London,  being  a  member  of  one  Mr. 
Partridge's s  congregation,  in  London,  coming  to  Bristol  fairs, 
and  hearing  Mr.  Hardcastle,  being  several  vears  before  con- 
vinced  of  baptism,  was  now  more  confirmed,  and  therefore 
earnestly  desired  of  our  pastor  that  he  might  pass  under  that 
ordinance  here.  Therefore  he  was  baptized  here,  upon  the 
third  of  sixth  month,  anno  1674,  by  brother  Jennings,  in  the 
river  Frome,  and  another  with  him. 

Brother  Joshua  Bryan  was  proposed  upon  the  14th  of  the 
fourth  month,  1674,  and  he  declared  to  the  church  the  Lord's 
manner  of  calling  him  out  of  the  state  of  darkness  by  nature, 
upon  the  seventh  of  the  fifth  month  following ;  of  whom  the 
church  received  satisfaction.  Whereupon  he  was  baptized 
the  third  of  the  sixth  month  following,  with  Mr.  Lewis 
before  named ;  and  he  was  admitted  a  member  of  the  church 
upon  the  ninth  day  of  the  sixth  month,  anno  1674. 

Sister  Phrig,  of  Syson,  in  the  county  of  Gloucester,  was 
proposed,  with  brother  Bryan,  upon  the  14th  day  of  the 
fourth  month,  1674;  and  she  gave  a  declaration  of  the  work 
of  God  upon  her  soul,  upon  the  fourth  day  of  sixth  month  fol- 
lowing ;  and  she  was,  upon  the  church's  satisfaction  with  her 
declaration,  baptized  upon  the  sixth  day  of  the  eighth  month 
following ;  and  she  was  added  a  member  of  this  congregation 
upon  the  eleventh  day  of  said  eighth  month,  anno  1674. 

OUR    EIGHTH   PERSECUTION.      ANNO    1674. 

About  this  time,  in  this  eighth  month,  October,  1674, 
began  our  eighth  persecution  in  this  city  ;  for  a  little  before 

8  [Mr.  Nathanael  Partridge  was  an  1684,  the  year  of  his  death.     He  was  a 

ejected   minister,   and    formed    an    in-  great  sufferer  for  nonconformity,  and  was 

dependent  church  at  Old  Street  Square,  once  confined  in  Newgate  for  six  months, 

of  which   he  was  pastor  from    1G66  to  — Wilson,  ii.  .526.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  213 

this,  in  the  seventh  month  last  past,  a  new  bishop,  one  Guy 
Carleton,  being  come  to  Bristol  to  settle  here,4  who  being 
though  aged  and  grey,  a  violent  man  against  good  people 
that  separated  from  that  which  he  called  the  church :  for  he 
had  been  formerly  a  captain  in  King  Charles  I.'s  army,  against 
the  parliament ;  and  had  been  out  of  the  nation  with  this 
King,  Charles  II.  in  his  exile.  And  now  being  made  a  lord 
bishop  of  Bristol,  he  resolved  to  destroy  all  our  meetings, 
and  said  he  would  not  leave  the  track  of  a  meeting  in  Bris- 
tol ;  but  would  make  us  all  come  to  church,  as  he  called  it. 

Now  in  those  few  years,  last  past,  of  our  peace,  it  had 
pleased  the  Lord  to  give  such  a  breathing  and  liberty  to  his 
people,  that  those  whose  hearts  were  drawn  forth  to  separate 
from  the  world's  worship,  as  many  were,  and  by  our  last 
persecution  being  driven  out  into  the  fields,  many  were  con- 
vinced and  converted,  and  from  thence  cleaved  to  us.  And 
all  professors  had  got  several  distinct  meetings,  by  them- 
selves, according  to  their  several  apprehensions  and  light 
received.  So  that  there  were  now  six  separate  churches 
settled  in  this  city ;  viz.,  three  baptized  congregations,  two 
independent  congregations,  and  one  presbyterian  congrega- 
tion: viz.,  Mr.  Hardcastle's,  being  our  meeting,  most  part 
baptized ;  Mr.  Gifford's,5  all  baptized ;  and  Mr.  Kitchen's, 
all  baptized.       And   Mr.    Thompson's,6   and  Mr.    Trough- 

4  [He  had  been  elected  bishop  in  interesting  particulars  of  this  eminent 
1671,  and  was  translated  to  Chichester  man,  reference  may  be  made  to  Iviruey, 
in  1678.]  vol.  i.  412-414,  vol.  ii.  541—552,  and 

5  [Mr.  Andrew  Gifford  "  is  a  citizen  Rippon's  Funeral  Sermon  for  Dr.  Gif- 
born  and  bred,  and  his  father  now  living  ford,  pp.  34 — 36.] 

in  the  city." — A  Sober  Answer,  &c.  p.  6  [Mr.  John  Thompson,  M.A.,  was 
13,  1675.  He  was  baptized  on  the  28th  a  native  of  Dorchester,  and  a  student  of 
June,  1659,  and  received  a  member  of  the  Christ  Church,  Oxford.  Unable  to  con- 
church  in  the  Pithay,  of  which  he  was  form,  he  quitted  the  university,  after 
ordained  pastor  in  1677.  He  began  his  nine  years'  residence,  and  returned  to 
ministry  in  1661,  frequently  preaching  Dorchester,  where  he  often  preached 
in  St.  Leonard's  church,  till  excluded  with  great  acceptance  and  approbation, 
by  the  Act  of  Uniformity.     For  many  to   the   congregation    of    Mr.    William 


214  THE    RECORDS 

ton's7  congregations,  were  independents ;  and  Mr.  Weeks's8 
congregation  were  presbyterians. 

Now  four  of  these  were  public  and  popular  meetings  ;  that 
is,  Mr.  Weeks's,  Mr.  Hardcastle's,  and  Mr.  GifFord's,  these 
three  all  in  James's  parish ;  and  Mr.  Thompson's  meeting  was 
kept  in  the  castle.  These  were  great  meetings.  But  Mr. 
Kitchen's,  somewhat  of  the  free-will  point,  also  in  the  castle, 
was  but  about  three  or  four  score,  and  so  was  not  much  taken 
notice  of;  and  Mr.  Troughton's  less,  being  but  about 
twenty,  and  not  fixed  to  one  place :  for  they  had  used  to  be 
sometimes  one  where,  and  sometimes  another,  having  some 
honourable  women  of  note  amongst  them,  but  few  men; — 
they  were  more  obscure.  But  the  other  four  meetings 
beforementioned :  viz.,  Mr.  Weeks's,  Mr.  Hardcastle's,  Mr. 
Giffbrd's,  and  Mr.  Thompson's,  were  each  of  them  consisting 
of  many  hundreds,  that  is,  hearers,  with  the  members.  And 
they  had  public  places,  whereto  the  people  did  resort,  as 
common  as  to  the  public  places,  called  churches. 

Thus  the  Lord  having  settled  us  for  several  years  before,  in 
order,  as  armies  with  banners:  yet,  but  like  little  flocks  of 
kids,  in  comparison  with  the  multitudes  from  the  many  syna- 
gogues of  the  Philistines  of  our  days.     Their  Goliath,  Guy, 

Ben,  whose  daughter  he  married.  The  to  preach  there  in  private  till  his  re- 
congregation  assembling  in  the  castle,  in  moval  to  Bristol.  He  wrote  an  exposi- 
Bristol,  inviting  him,  he  removed  thither  tion  of  Psalm  xlv. — Palmer's  Noncon. 
in  1670,  "  where  he  laid  out  himself  to  Mem.  ii.  512.] 

the  utmost  in  the  discharge  of  his  minis-  8  [Mr.  Weeks  was  ejected  from  the 

terial    work.      The    Lord   was   pleased  vicarage  of  Buckland  Newton,  in  Dor- 

wonderfully  to  succeed  his  labours,  so  setshire.      His  congregation  in    Bristol 

that  many  will  have  cause  for  ever  to  consisted  of  1500  people,  all  of  his  own 

praise  the  Lord  for  his  coming  to  Bris-  gathering.    He  bore  his  many  hardships 

tol."     His  conversation  was  holy,  harm-  with     great    patience,    meekness,    and 

less,  and  unblameable.     A  Reply  to  the  courage.     Was   twice  imprisoned,  and 

Bristol   Narrative,   &c.    pp.   5,  6,  4to,  during  his  captivity  preached  out  of  the 

1675.  J  prison     windows.       Palmer     mentions 

7  [Mr.  William  Troughton  was  ejected  several  interesting  incidents  of  his  per- 

from  a  living  in  Salisbury,  but  continued  secution. — Noncon.  Mem.  i.  4  16.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  215 

the  bishop,  being  come,9  and  he  having  now  got  a  mayor, 
within  a  month  after  he  came,  fit  for  his  purpose — one  greatly 
in  his  favour,  Ralph  Ollive  by  name,  a  vintner,  and  a  great 
drinker,  a  man  given  to  much  wine, — being  now  newly-elected 
and  sworn,  that  would  do  what  the  bishop  would  have  him. 

And  not  only  were  these  two  (the  bishop  and  the  mayor) 
bad  instruments  risen  up,  as  formidable  enemies  against  us ; 
but  the  Lord  suffered  to  be  raised  up  another  wicked  instru- 
ment, to  be  a  scourge  and  trial  to  us,  his  poor  people :  justly, 
for  our  sins  of  unthankfulness  and  unsuitable  walking  to  our 
gracious  Father,  and  not  rendering  according  to  former  benefits 
received.  Which  third  and  pestilent  adversary  against  us, 
which  did  the  drudgery  of  the  work  for  them,  was  one  John 
Hellier,  an  attorney  at  law  of  this  city,  and  had  been  bred  up 
here.  And  he  was  one  very  crafty  and  subtle  in  the  law, 
that,  through  craft  prospering  in  his  hand,  had  gotten  an  estate 
of  about  £200  per  annum.  Who  not  only  in  his  calling  was 
vile,  but  in  his  conversation  was  very  unclean.  He  had  been 
fluxed  for  the  morbus  gallicus,  and  the  like  of  him  was  not  in 
the  country  round  about  for  the  bishop's  purpose;  and  he  was 
the  mayor's  landlord,  and  so  had  the  stronger  evidence  of 
influence  to  have  the  command  of  the  mayor,  or  his  officers, 
at  his  pleasure.  This  John  Hellier  [was]  now  living  in 
James's  parish,  where  three  of  the  great  meetings  were,  as 
aforesaid ;  and  this  year  he  was  made  churchwarden  of  his 
parish,  as  they  call  it.     All  which  strengthened  him  against 

9  ["  Who  no  sooner  was  come  hither,  mayor,  where  lie  was  very  liberal  of  his 

but  he  began  to  be  so  liberal  of  his  visits,  threats.     He  began  with  a  counsellor  at 

that  with  those  little  artifices  and  restless  law,  whom  he  threatened  for  pleading 

instigations,  he  provoked  the  civil  magis-  the  king's  licences,  before  [they  were] 

trates  to  disturb  our  assemblies  and  put  recalled ;     and     afterwards     inveighed 

the  laws  in  execution  against  our  minis-  against  him,  in  his  sermon  at  the  college, 

ters." — A  Reply  to  the  Bristol  Narra-  as  one  who  would  plead  the  devil's  cause 

tive,  &c.  p.  6.     "  He  hardly  missed  a  for  a  piece  of  money." — A  Sober  An- 

day,  but  was  ever  on  the  Tolzey  with  swer,  &c.  p.  16,  4to,  1675.] 
the  justices,  and  seated  himself  next  the 


216  THE    RECORDS 

us ;  for  thereby,  as  his  fig-leaf,  he  laboured  to  cover  himself, 
pretending  what  he  did  against  us  was  in  pursuance  of  his 
duty:  that  he  might  not  break  his  oath,  as  he  said.  So  he 
came  with  his  man  to  our  meetings,  and  turned  informer,  and 
gave  informations  against  our  three  meetings  in  said  parish ; 
namely,  Mr.  Weeks's,  Mr.  Hardcastle's,  and  Mr.  Gifford's. 
And  the  bishop  also  sent  three,  and  sometimes  more,  of  his  own 
clergy;1  namely,  parson  Pled  well  of  Peter's,  Heath  of  Austin's, 
and  Godwin  of  Philips 's,  that  would  come  up  in  our  meetings, 
in  the  midst  of  sermon,  and  stay  some  time,  and  take  notice  of 
as  many  as  they  could  know  :  then  go  to  the  mayor,  and  give 
information  against  us.  Thus  when  they  should  be  preaching 
to  their  own  flocks  in  their  parishes,  they  left  them,  and  would 
so  audaciously  come  to  devour  us,  in  the  attire  of  foolish 
shepherds,  but  inwardly  were  ravening  wolves. 

Then,  from  their  informations,  our  ministers  were  sum- 
moned before  the  magistrates;  but  we  would  not  suffer  them 
then  to  appear.  For  we  did  apprehend  their  design  was  to 
imprison  our  ministers,  as  the  most  effectual  way,  they  judged, 
to  destroy  our  meetings ;  to  take  up  all  the  speakers,  for  being 
in  the  corporation,  having  an  act  of  parliament  for  that  pur 
pose,  made  against  non-conforming  ministers:2  as  afterwards, 
when  they  had  opportunity,  it  appeared  they  so  intended  to 

1  [That  the  bishop  might  effectually  judicious,  learned,  and  able  divines  per- 

assist  in  the  destruction  of  the  noncon-  emptorily  refusing  that  hated  employ, 

formists,  he  sent  "as  many  of  his  clergy  for  which  his  lordship  in  a  visitation- 

as  he  could  prevail  with  as  informers,  speech    severely    lashed    them.       The 

there  being  few  others  found  at  that  time  bishop,  to  encourage  others,  then  assumes 

vile  enough  for  so  base  a  work,  to  visit  the  title  of  informer  ;  and  after,  to  lessen 

our  meetings,  both  upon   sabbath   and  the  reproach,  bestows  the  same  on  the 

week  days,  and  swear  against  our  minis-  blessed  angel  (in  a  sermon  at  the  college 

ters,  in  order  to  their  imprisonment." —  from  these  words  :  Heboid,  J  briny  you 

A  Reply  to  the  Bristol  Narrative,  &c.  glad  tidings)." — A  Sober  Answer,  &c. 

p.  7.     "  The  bishop  was  pleased  to  bring  p.  19.] 

with  him   some  of  the  meanest  of  his  2  ["So  little  did  the  sense  of  God's 

clergy,  both  for  abilities  and  interest,  to  terrible  judgments  (tire  plague  and  the 

inform  against  the  dissenters;  the  more  tire  of  London),  or  of  the  necessities  of 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  217 

imprison  them.  Therefore  we  feed  counsellors  at  law,  and 
pleaded  our  right  to  meet  so,  by  law,  before  the  mayor  and 
the  council;  because,  about  or  near  three  years  before,  the 
king  making  war  with  the  Dutch,3  his  majesty  granted  liberty 
to  all  the  dissenters  in  the  nation,  to  enjoy  their  meetings 
quiet,  by  a  declaration  for  licences  to  be  given  them  that 
would  seek  for  them.  At  which  time  these  four  congregations, 
each  of  us,  had  got  out  licences  for  our  places  and  pastors. 
Whereupon  we  stood  out  against  the  bishop,  the  mayor,  and 
Hellier,  by  law. 

Licence  to  Mr.^Hardcastle  to  preach. 

Charles  It.  Charles,  by  the  grace  of  God,  king  of  England, 
Scotland,  France,  and  Ireland,  defender  of  the  faith,  &c.  To 
all  mayors,  bailiffs,  constables,  and  other  our  officers,  and 
ministers,  civil  and  military,  whom  it  may  concern, — greeting. 

In  pursuance  of  our  declaration  of  the  15th  of  March,  1671-2,  we 
do  hereby  permit  and  license  Thomas  Hardcastle,  in  the^parish  of 
Bitton,4  in  Gloucestershire,  of  the  persuasion  commonly  called 
baptized,  to  be  a  teacher,  and  to  teach  in  any  place  licensed,  and 
allowed  by  us,^according  to  our  said  declaration.     Given  at  our 

many  hundred  thousand  ignorant  souls,  s  ["Now  (1672)  came  forth  a  decla- 
or  the  groans  of  the  poor  people,  or  the  ration  giving  somefuller  exposition  of  the 
fear  of  the  great  and  final  reckoning,  transactions  of  these  twelve  years  last, 
affect  the  hearts  of  the  prelatists,  or  stop  viz.,  His  majesty,  by  virtue  of  his 
them  in  their  way  ;"  that  the  notorious  supreme  power  in  matters  ecclesiastical, 
act  to  restrain  nonconformists  from  in-  suspendeth  all  penal  laws  thereabout, 
habiting  corporations,  was  strenuously  and  declareth,  That  he  will  grant  a  con- 
urged  by  the  clergy,  the  chief  of  whom  venient  number  of  public  meeting- 
were  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  places  to  men  of  all  sorts  that  conform 
Ward,  bishop  of  Salisbury.  Thiswrasin  not."  These  licences  wrere  very  gene- 
166.5.  By  it, the  silenced  ministers  were  rally  obtained,  but  some  refused  to  ac- 
forbidden  to  approach  within  five  miles  cept  them,  as  it  was  regarded  to  be  a 
of  any  city  or  corporation,  unless  they  scheme  for  the  introduction  of  popery- 
took  a  certain  impossible  oath.— Baxter's  — Baxter's  Narrative,  iii.  99.] 
Narrative,  iii.  p.  2.]  *  [Near  Bristol.] 


218  THE    RECORDS 

court  at  Whitehall,  the  5th  day  of  September,  in  the  24th  year  of 
our  reign,  1672.     By  his  majesty's  command. 

Arlington.5 

Licence  for  the  Rooms. 

Charles  R.,  by  the  grace  of  God,  king  &c,  to  all  mayors,  &c. 
In  pursuance  of  our  declaration  of  the  15th  of  March,  1671-2,  we 
have  allowed,  and  do  Hereby  allow,  of  a  room  or  rooms  in  the 
house  of  Simon  Tovey,  in  St.  James's  parish,  Bristol,  to  be  a  place 
for  the  use  of  such  as  do  not  conform  to  the  church  of  England, 
who  are  of  the  persuasion  commonly  called  baptized,  to  meet  and 
assemble  in,  in  order  to  their  public  worship  and  devotion.  And 
all  and  singular  our  officers  and  ministers,  ecclesiastical,  civil  and 
military,  whom  it  may  concern,  are  to  take  due  notice  hereof.  And 
they,  and  every  of  them,  are  hereby  strictly  charged  and  required 
to  hinder  any  tumult  or  disturbance,  and  to  protect  them  in  their 
said  meetings  and  assemblies.  Given  at  our  court  at  Whitehall, 
the  5th  day  of  September,  in  the  24th  year  of  our  reign,  1672.  By 
his  majesty's  command. 

Arlington.6 

Thus  the  Lord's  permissive  providence  caused  these  four 
churches,  two  baptized,  one  presbyterian,  and  one  independent 
congregation,  that  were  begun  to  be  troubled,  to  join  together 
and  unite  in  counsel  and  charge,  as  poor  sheep  driven  together 
by  wolves;  and  resolved  to  endeavour  what  they  could  to 
defend  themselves,  by  law,  against  those  vile  persecutors,  that 
were  risen  up  against  their  peaceable  and  quiet  meetings, 
resolving  to  destroy  us.  In  order  thereunto,  these  four 
churches  chose  two  men  of  each  congregation  to  act  for  the 
whole ;  and  those  eight  men  took  care  of  the  matters  of  law, 

8  [The  licence  of  Mr.  Gifford  is  still  6  [These   licences    are   from    copies 

preserved  in  the  museum  of  the  Baptist  taken  by  the  late  Mr.  Isaac  James.  The 

Academy,   Bristol.      See   also   Crosby,  originals  are  not  to  be  found.] 
iii.  104.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  219 

to  follow  it.  And  as  often  as  occasion  required,  these  eight 
men,  deputed  for  the  congregations,  met  together  to  advise, 
consider,  and  manage  matters  of  our  general  concern,  for  the 
four  congregations,  in  their  legal  defence. 

And  it  pleased  the  Lord  to  suffer  Hellier  aforesaid,  the  first 
day  as  he  began  against  us,  to  be  caught  in  a  snare.  For 
when  he  came  to  Mr.  Gifford's  meeting  it  happened,  by  pro- 
vidence disposed,  that  at  that  morning  another  brother,  that  did 
use  to  preach  every  other  Lord's  day  there,  namely,  brother 
Harford,  was  then  preaching  when  Hellier  came  in.  But 
Hellier  goes  before  the  mayor,  and  swears  that  it  was  Andrew 
Gifford  was  preaching  then,  upon  the  27th  of  Sept.  last :  so 
there  was  a  warrant,  as  well  as  for  other  ministers,  so  for 
Andrew  Gifford.  Which  warrants  being  delivered  to  the 
chief  constable  of  James's  ward,  who  would  not  execute  the 
warrants,  but  would  make  evasions;  and  some  Lord's  days 
would  get  out  of  town,  when  he  might  take  up  the  ministers, 
who  still  kept  their  preaching  :  but  we  suffered  the  chief  con- 
stable to  take  brother  Andrew  Gifford,  because  we  knew  him 
to  be  clear  of  that  information,  And  he  being  brought  before 
the  mayor,  Hellier  had  the  confidence  to  swear,  upon  the  holy 
record,  that  this  was  the  man,  swearing  to  his  person,  although 
it  was  another ;  and  notwithstanding  it  was  put  to  him  several 
times  to  consider,  lest  he  was  mistaken,  yet  he  swore  posi- 
tively that  was  the  man.  Thus  Hellier  took  a  false  oath,  and 
there  were  ten  present  that  did  witness  the  contrary,  and  four 
took  their  oaths  it  was  another  did  then  preach  ;  so  the  magis- 
trates saw  Hellier  had  sworn  false.  And  so  they  troubled  us 
for  several  months,  but  we  kept  our  meetings,  and  our  pastors 
preaching,  still  pleading  our  rights  by  law. 

The  bishop  being  perplexed  that  he  was  so  opposed  that  he 
could  not  have  his  will,  he  goes  to  London  to  the  king,  and 
complains  against  us;  and  the  foresaid  eight  friends  sent  up 
an  agent  to  London,  on  purpose  to  wait  upon  another  agent 


220  HIE    RECORDS 

there,  to  observe  the  bishop's  motions,  and  to  endeavour  the 
counter-working  of  his  designs  against  us,  in  giving  a  true 
account  to  the  king,  by  some  lords  of  the  council  and  the 
duke,7  of  the  peaceableness  of  the  city  before  the  bishop  came, 
and  of  his  furious  actings  and  proceedings  against  us.8  Thus, 
not  with  little  cost,  we  held  out  our  meetings,  as  formerly, 
above  four  months,  and  kept  our  pastors  with  us.  But  though 
we  had  many  good  words  from  the  court,  giving  hopes  of  con- 
tinuing our  liberties  longer,  yet  in  the  12th  month,  February, 
anno  1674  [1675],  the  king,  somewhat  before  the  parlia- 
ment's sitting,  then  coming  nigh,  he  set  forth  a  proclamation 
as  against  papists,  but  in  the  latter  end  of  it  declared,  that  all 
the  licences  formerly  given  to  the  dissenters  were  made  void. 
Then  the  bishop  and  his  clergy  greatly  rejoiced,  that  now 
they  should  have  their  wills  on  us;  for  now  our  foundation 
plea  at  law,  by  licences,  was  taken  away.  Therefore  the 
bishop,  being  come  home,9  and  his  tribe,  very  speedily  begin 


7  [The  Duke  of  York,  the  king's  exult  ;it  its  being  read  in  court,  and  to 
brother.]  give  it  a  brisk  encomium."     It  produced 

8  [At  the  Epiphany  sessions,  by  the  on  the  part  of  the  persecuted  dissenters, 
institution  of  Hellier,  who  had  packed  a  A  Sober  Answer  to  an  Address  of  the 
jury  for  the  purpose,  the  grand  jury  Grand  Jurors,  &c.  4to,  printed  in  the 
made  a  presentment  to  the  bench  of  year  1675.  The  presentment  itself,  in 
magistrates  against  the  nonconformists.  Mr.  Terrill'a  handwriting,  is  preserved 
Certain  strangers,  seducers,  were  said  to  among  the  Records.] 

have  entered  the  city,  pretending  to  be  •  r«Wia  niajcsty  called  the  bishops  up 

ministers  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  on  their  to  London,  to  give  him  advice  what  was 

own  authority   to  have  proceeded  « to  to  i,e  done,  for  the  securing  of  religion, 

pray  and  preach  as  they  list,  most  com-  &c.     T]ie  bishops,  after  divers  meetings 

monly  on  the  Lord's  day,  whereby  they  and  delaySj  at  last  advlseci  the  kiilg  t0 

have  increased  the  number  of  disloyal  recall  his  licences.     Which  was  done  by 

and  anti-monarchical  and  seditious  sec-  a  declaration  and  proclamation,  declar- 

taries."       Wherefore    they     pray     that  ing  the  limiccs  long  bince  Yoiu?  aml  re_ 

effectual  measure  should  be  taken  '<  for  quiring  the  exeL.ution  of  thu  laWb  ., ,.linsl 

the  exterminating  hence  of  these  kind  of  pal)ists   (most    ];irgelv  mentjoned)  and 

impostors  and    seducers,    and  for    sup-  conventicles."— Baxter's   Narrative,   iii. 

pressing  their  conventicles."  The  bishop,  1  ,-,_>.] 
sitting  on  the  bench,  was  observed  "  to 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  221 

vigorously  to  bestir  themselves,  and  lose  no  time :  for  the 
very  same  week  this  proclamation  came  down  to  make  void 
the  licences,  the  bishop,  with  divers  of  his  clergy,  got  some  of 
the  aldermen  and  some  of  the  military  officers  together,  and 
goes  to  Mr.  Thompson's  meeting,  in  the  castle,  upon  the 
fourth  day  of  the  week,  his  lecture  in  the  middle  of  the  week, 
being  the  tenth  day  of  the  12th  month,  Feb.  1674;  where 
finding  of  him  preaching,  they,  after  search,  met  with  him, 
where  the  people  had  conveyed  him  away,  in  another  part  of 
the  house,  against  the  freeness  of  his  own  mind.1  And  so 
they  laid  hands  on  him,  and  brought  him  before  the  mayor,  to 
his  mansion  house,  where,  after  long  examination  and  discourse, 
about  nine  of  the  clock  at  night,  the  mayor,  bishop,  and  some 
aldermen  commit  Mr.  Thompson  to  Newgate  prison  for  six 
months.2     Then,  as  follows,  they  imprison  other  ministers. 

Memorandum.  The  works  of  the  Lord  are  worthy  our 
consideration,  for  a  meteor,  or  comet,  appeared  but  the  last 
day  of  the  week  before  they  began  to  imprison  these  ministers. 

Upon  the  sixth  day  of  the  twelfth  month,  or  Feb.  1674, 
being  Saturday,  about  six  of  the  clock  in  the  evening,  there 
was  a  fiery  apparition  appeared  in  the  air,  on  the  north-west 
side  of  the  city,  as  it  were  over  James's ;  at  first  it  appeared 
like  a  boy's  kite,  the  head  of  it  oval,  and  like  fire,  with  a  tail 
streaming  white,  and  growing  longer  and  the  head  lesser,  till 
it  seemed  to  be  ten  yards  long.  It  moved  but  slowly,  and 
went  along  leisurely,  like  the  motion  of  a  kite,  fromward 
James's  towards  Lawford's  Gate,  in  Bristol,  being  a  good  while 

1  ["  Some  of  his  hearers,  understand-  place.  A  boy  that  saw  his  going  into 
ing  his  danger,  shut  the  doors  of  the  the  said  house,  being  an  apprentice  to  a 
meeting ;  whence  the  disturbance  singing-man  of  the  college,  betrayed 
through  noise  and  knocking  being  so  him  into  their  hands,  for  which  Judas 
great  that  he  could  not  proceed,  was  received  from  the  bishop  a  sixpenny  re- 
forced  to  desist,  and,  upon  the  persua-  ward." — A  Reply,  &c.  p.  7.] 
8ion  of  divers,  at  another  door  escaped  2  [For  the  particulars  of  his  exami- 
into  a  house  adjoining  to  the  meeting  nation,  see  A  Reply,  &c,  pp.  7 — 10.] 


222  THE    RECORDS 

in  our  sight ;  and  the  houses  made  us  lose  the  sight  of  it  over 
Lawford's  Gate. 

This  appeared  in  Bristol  said  day,  and  was  seen  by  divers. 
Mr.  Hardcastle,  and  others  with  him,  saw  it  at  his  house  in 
the  castle ;  and  one  of  brother  TerriU's  family,  near  Lawford's 
Gate,  saw  it. 

Then  upon  the  14th  day  of  said  12th  month,  Feb.  1674-5, 
the  next  Lord's  day  following  Mr.  Thompson's  commitment, 
the  mayor,  Ralph  Ollivc,  with  Alderman  Hicks  and  Alderman 
Lawford,  and  the  mayor's  Serjeants,  came  to  Mr.  Weeks's 
meeting,  and  to  our  meeting ;  and  they  finding  Mr.  Hard- 
castle preaching,  as  also  Mr.  Weeks,  they  carried  them  both 
away,  and  committed  them  to  the  custody  of  a  chief  constable 
until  the  morrow.  Then  Mr.  Hardcastle  and  Mr.  Weeks 
were  brought  before  the  mayor,  to  the  Tolzey,  where  the 
oaths  in  the  corporation  act  were  tendered  them.  But  they 
no  ways  embracing  it,  were  again  committed  to  the  constable 
until  the  evening,  and  then  sent  to  Newgate  prison,  to  Mr. 
Thompson.  And  when  Sheriff  Fielding,  about  ten  o'clock  at 
night,  had  brought  them  to  the  prison  door,  he  deridingly  bid 
Mr.  Weeks  take  his  leave  of  all  his  holy  brethren. 

Now,  three  of  our  ministers  being  imprisoned,  some  of  each 
congregation  of  the  brethren  met  together  to  consult  how  to 
carry  on  our  meetings,  that  we  might  keep  to  our  duty,  and 
edify  one  another  now  our  pastors  were  gone.  Some  even 
were  ready  of  thinking  to  give  off,  viz.,  of  the  presby terians ; 
that  they  could  not  carry  it  on,  because  of  their  principle, 
[which]  was  not  to  hear  a  man  not  bred  up  at  the  university, 
and  not  ordained.  But  the  Lord  appeared,  and  helped  us  to 
prevail  with  them  to  hold  on,  and  keep  up  their  meetings. 
And  for  the  first,  and  [for]  ^omo  time,  we  concluded  this :  to 
come  and  assemble  together,  and  for  one  to  pray  and  read  a 
chapter,  and  then  sing  a  psalm,  and  after  conclude  with 
prayer  ;  and  so  two  brethren  to  carry  on  the  meeting  one  day, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST,  223 

and  two  another  :  for  a  while,  to  try  what  they  would  do  with 
us.  So  we  did,  and  ordered  one  of  the  doors  of  our  meeting 
place  to  be  made  fast,  and  all  to  come  in  at  one,  but  open  it 
when  we  go  forth  :  and  to  appoint  some  youth,  or  two  of 
them,  to  be  out  at  the  door,  every  meeting,  to  watch  when 
Hellier,  or  other  informers  or  officers,  were  coming  :  and  so  to 
come  in,  one  of  them,  and  give  us  notice  thereof.  Also,  some 
of  the  hearers,  women  and  sisters,  would  sit  and  crowd  in  the 
stairs,  when  we  did  begin  the  meeting  with  any  exercise,  that 
so  the  informers  might  not  too  suddenly  come  in  upon  us;  by 
reason  of  which  they  were  prevented  divers  times. 

Upon  the  21st  day  of  12th  month,  Feb.  1674,  being  the 
next  Lord's  day  after  our  pastor  was  imprisoned,  Hellier  comes 
about  to  our  meetings  with  his  man  and  officers.  In  the 
morning  [he]  goes  to  Mr.  Gifford's,  and  finds  him  preaching ; 
which  he  informs  the  mayor  thereof,  for  his  conviction,  that  if 
they  catch  him  after  that  day  of  his  conviction  in  the  corpora- 
tion, they  might  imprison  him,  as  the  other  ministers.  In  the 
afternoon  he  goes  to  Mr.  Weeks's,  and  carries  away  divers  to 
prison  ;  then  comes  to  our  meeting,  and  finding  that  door  we 
came  in  to  be,  with  people  and  women  in  the  stairs,  so  thronged 
that  they  could  not  get  in :  though  they  did  hale  several,  and 
pulled  Mrs.  Bush  down  stairs,  yet  could  not  get  up  through 
them : — then  they  went  to  the  other  door,  and  broke  it  open ; 
and  then  they  rushed  in  upon  us  that  way,  and  took  observa- 
tion of  the  names  of  them  they  counted  chief,  and  carried 
away  brother  Courtny  with  them  before  the  mayor,  and  Mr. 
Sam.  Tipton  and  Mr.  Joseph  White,  whom  they  struck  very 
violently,  and  bound  them  over  to  answer  for  meeting.3 

Upon  the  28th  of  the  12th  month,  1674  [5],  the  informers 

3  ["Feb.   21,   74.     One,  a   female,  the  king's  name,  he  was  afraid,  having 

was  thrown  down  the  stairs,  and  bruised.  seen  him  (Hellier)  pull,  beat,  strike,  and 

Another  pleaded  as  the  reason  why  he  throw  down  several,  so  that  had  they 

went  not  away  as  soon  as  commanded  in  not   been  saved    by    others,   they    had 


224  THE    RECORD- 

came  to  our  meetings  again.  And  at  brother  Gifford's  meeting, 
Hellier,  with  the  officers,  finds  him  preaching  again  ;  and  now 
having  a  warrant  for  him,  they  carry  him  away  before  the 
mayor,  who  binds  him  to  appear  the  next  day;  which  being 
the  1st  of  March,  or  the  first  month,  the  mayor  commits  Mr. 
Gifford  to  prison,  to  the  three  ministers  before,  for  six  months. 

But  one  of  the  ministers,  namely,  Mr.  Thompson,  who  was 
first  imprisoned,  was  very  sick  when  he  came  in,  and  although 
divers  persons  of  note  in  this  city,  in  the  compassion  of  their 
hearts  for  this  sick  minister,  did  go  to  the  mayor  and  sheriffs, 
and  to  Sir  John  Knight,  to  get  leave  that  he  might  be  per- 
mitted to  go  home;  but  they  could  not  prevail.  And  his 
physician4  interceded  that  he  might  be  removed  out  of  that 
stinking  prison,  to  some  convenient  house  for  air,  and  to 
administer  somewhat  more  conveniently  to  him,  and  he  showed 
the  danger  of  his  condition;  yet,  notwithstanding,  they  hard- 
ened their  hearts,  and  would  not  grant  it,  because  the  bishop 
would  not  give  leave. 

So  that  upon  the  4th  of  March,  1674-5,  following,  at  twelve 
of  the  clock  in  the  night,  Mr.  Thompson,  the  said  imprisoned 
minister  for  Jesus  Christ,  he  departed  this  life,  in  Newgate 
prison.5  He  was  a  corpulent,  tall,  big  man ;  having  lain  in 
prison  but  about  three  weeks  and  two  days;  of  that  he  was 

broken   their  necks,   or   a    limb;    this  his  fellow-prisoners,  whom  when  he  ob- 

would  have  been  proved  by  the  oaths  of  served  to  weep  bitterly  on  his  behalf, 

many.      An    aged   man    was    dragged  said, '  Sirs,  I  did  not  send  for  you  for 

out  and  committed  to  bridewell,  by  his  this  work,  pray  make  my  being  here  as 

command,  without  showing  a  warrant,  comfortable  as  you  can,  that    I    may 

or  bringing  him  before  a  justice." — A  speak  to  and  for  the  Lord.     Therefore 

Sober  Answer,  &c.  p.  22.]  tell  me,  which  is  the  shortest  and  surest 

4  ["At  night,  finding  himself  to  grow  way  to  know  whether  we  are  passed 
worse,  he  sent  for  Dr.  Chauncey,  his  from  death  to  life  f  Mr.  Weeks  re- 
usual  physician,  who  no  sooner  came  plied,  '  He  that  hath  the  Son  hath  life." 
and  saw  him,  but  judged  his  case  would  Hereupon,  this  blessed  departing  saint, 
prove  dangerous."— A  Reply,  &c.  p.  10.]  with  a  calm  and  composed  spirit,  said, 

5  [«'  Apprehending  the  hour  of  his  '  To  have  the  Son  is  to  believe  on  Him, 
dissolution   near  at  hand,  he  called   for  and  faith  is  a  real  willingness  to  receive 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST. 


225 


sick  .about  one  week.  Wherefore,  being  gross  [they]  could 
not  keep  him ;  so  that  the  next  day,  being  the  5th  of  March, 
he  was  honourably  interred  at  Phillips's ;  being  carried  from 
the  prison  to  his  grave,  and  was  accompanied  with  all  sort  of 
professors,  except  quakers,  insomuch  that  the  like  funeral,  for 
number,  had  not  been  seen  in  Bristol  in  the  memory  of  this 
generation ;  being  judged  by  some  to  be  not  less  than  five 
thousand  people  of  all  sorts:  which  made  the  adversaries 
admire.     Such  honour  have  all  His  saints.6 

Now  all  the  foresaid  churches,  our  ministers  being  taken 
from  us,  one  dead,  and  the  rest  imprisoned, — and  we  feared 
their  death  likewise  in  such  a  bad  prison, — and  we  being  pur- 
sued closely  every  meeting,  hardly  one  escaped  but  we  were 
followed  by  the  bishop's  men,  Hellier,  or  other  informers,  and 
officers  from  the  mayor:  for  our  parts,  at  our  meeting,  we 
presently  made  use  of  our  ministering  gifts  in  the  church,  as 
we  did  in  former  persecutions,  contenting  ourselves  with  mean 
gifts  and  coarse  fare  in  the  want  of  better.  Wherefore  we 
considered  which  way  to  maintain  our  meetings,  by  preserving 
our  speakers. 


an    offered  Christ   upon  offered   terms. 
The  sinner  takes  hold  of  the  promise  for 
himself,  takes  Christ  out  of  the  promise, 
and    applies   Him    to    his  soul.''      At 
length,  being  spent,  while  Mr.  Weeks 
was  by  prayer  commending  his  soul  into 
the  hand  of  Jesus  Christ,   he  expired. 
—A  Reply,  &c.  pp.  14,  15.] 
6  ["  He  died  in  peace,  though  to  a  jail 
confined, 
Whilst  men  resolved  he  should  a  pri- 
soner be, 
And  to  close  bondage  did  his  life  de- 
cree; 
A  liberare  issues  from  the  sky, 
And  gives  that  freedom,    which  his 
foes  den  v.'" 


A  scurrilous  libel,  dedicated  to  the 
bishop,  upon  the  character  of  this  holy 
man,  produced  a  reply,  in  which  an  in- 
teresting and  minute  account  is  given  of 
his  life,  and  sufferings  for  Christ's  sake. 
An  elegy  is  subjoined,  from  which  the 
above  is  an  extract.  Its  title  is,  u  A 
Reply  to  the  Bristol  Narrative;  or  a 
more  just  account  of  the  Imprisonment 
and  death  of  Mr.  John  Thompson, 
Minister  of  the  Gospel :  Given  upon  the 
credit  of  an  honest  man.  Wherein  the 
malicious  relation,  contained  in  it,  con- 
cerning his  death,  is  found  false  and  im- 
pudent. Printed  in  the  year  1675.'' 
4to,  pp.  19.] 


226  THE   RECORDS 

Iii  order  to  which,  at  our  own  meeting,  to  prevent  spies 
that  might  come  in  the  room  as  hearers :— and  yet  that  no 
strangers,  or  persons  we  knew  not,  might  not  be  hindered 
from  coming  into  our  meeting,  whether  good  or  bad,  to  hear 
the  gospel:— we  contrived  a  curtain,  to  be  hung  in  the  meet- 
ing place,  that  did  inclose  as  much  room  as  above  fifty  might 
sit  within  it;  and  among  those  men,  he  that  preached  should 
stand;  that  so,  if  any  informer  was  privately  in  the  room  as  a 
hearer,  he  might  hear  him  that  spake,  but  could  not  see  him, 
and  thereby  not  know  him.     And  there  were  brethren  with- 
out the  curtain,  that  would  hinder  any  from  going  within  the 
curtain,  that  they  did  not  know  to  be  friends :  and  so  let  whoso 
would  come  into  our  meeting  to  hear,  without  the  curtain. 
And  when  our  company  and  time  were  come  to  begin  the 
meeting,  we  drew  the  curtain,  and  filled  up  the  stairs  with 
women  and  maids  that  sat  in  it,  that  the  informers  could  not 

quickly  run  up. 

And  when  we  had  notice  that  the  informers,  or  oflicers, 
were  coming,  we  caused  the  minister,  or  brother  that  preached, 
to  forbear,  and  sit  down.     Then  we  drew  back  the  curtain, 
laying  the  whole  room  open,  that  they  might  see  us  all.    And 
so  all  the  people  begin  to  sing  a  psalm,  that,  at  the  beginning 
of  the  meeting,  we  did  always  name  what  psalm  we  would 
sing,  if  the  informers,  or  the  mayor  or  his  officers  come  in. 
Thus  still  when  they  came  in  we  were  singing,  [so]  that  they 
could  not  find  any  one  preaching,  but  all  singing.     And,  at 
our  meeting,  we  ordered  it  so,  that  none  read  the  psalm  after 
the  first  line,  but  every  one  brought  their  bibles,  and  so  read 
for  themselves  :  that  they  might  not  lay  hold  of  any  one  for 
preaching,  or  as  much  as  reading  the  psalm,  and  so  to  imprison 
any  more  for  that,  as  they  had  our  ministers. 

Which  means  the  Lord  blessed,  that  many  times  when  the 
mayor  came  they  were  all  singing,  that  he  knew  not  who  to 
take  away  more   than  another.     And    so  when   the    mayor, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  227 

Hellier,  or  the  other  informers,  had  taken  our  names,  and  done 
what  they  would,  and  carried  away  whom  they  pleased,  and 
when  they  were  gone  down  out  of  our  rooms,  then  we  ceased 
singing,  and  drew  the  curtain  again,  and  the  minister,  or 
brother,  would  go  on  with  the  rest  of  his  sermon,  until  they 
came  again — which  sometimes  they  would  thrice  in  one  meet- 
ing disturb  us— or  until  our  time  was  expired.  This  was  our 
constant  manner  during  this  persecution,  in  Ollive's  mayor- 
alty, and  we  were  by  the  Lord  helped,  that  we  were  in  a 
good  measure  edified,  and  our  enemies  often  disappointed. 
Laus  Deo. 

We  taking  this  course,  after  a  little  while  Mr.  Weeks's 
people  did  so  likewise ;  they  shut  up  one  of  their  doors,  and, 
instead  of  a  curtain,  they  put  a  wainscot  board,  in  a  conve- 
nient place  in  their  meeting,  behind  which  he  that  spake  did 
stand,  out  of  sight  of  the  greatest  part  of  the  people,  and  yet 
all  might  hear.  And  they  suffer  none  to  come  into  that  part 
of  the  meeting  but  friends.  And  so,  when  the  informers 
come,  they  had  the  convenience  to  convey  him  that  spake  out 
of  that  part  of  the  meeting,  into  another  house. 

Brother  Gifford's  people  took  this  course:  a  compan}^  of 
tall  brethren  stand  about  him  that  speaks,  and  having  near  his 
feet  made  a  trap-door  in  the  floor,  when  the  informers  come> 
they  let  down  the  brother  that  spake  into  a  room  under.  And 
so  their  conveniency  led  them  to  take  that  course,  keeping 
one  still  at  the  door  to  give  notice. 

Mr.  Thompson's  people  were  not  so  much  followed  by  the 
informers,  as  the  other  three  meetings,  for  a  while;  nor  indeed 
but  little  at  all,  in  comparison  with  Mr.  Weeks's  meeting  and 
ours :  for  we  did  so  fill  their  hands,  that  before  they  could 
have  done  with  us,  their  meeting  ended. 

And  so  likewise  Mr.  Gifford's  meeting  was  frequently  shel- 
tered by  our  two  meetings,  which  lay  as  the  frontiers  of  their 
assaults.     But  when  the  bishop's  men  did  some  week  days 

Q  2 


228  THE    RECORDS 

follow  Mr.  Thompson's  meeting,  they  likewise  contrived  ways 
to  frustrate  the  informers,  and  to  save  their  speakers,  having 
lost  their  minister  as  before.  Now  their  meeting  place  being 
a  lower  room,  and  two  lofts  over  head,  one  over  another,  they 
made  a  door  to  the  stair-foot  into  the  second  story,  and  made 
the  minister  stand  in  that  middle  room ;  and  [he]  so  preached 
that  they  below  and  over  might  all  hear.  And  they  caused 
a  curtain  to  be  made,  that,  when  the  informers  came  in,  they 
might  draw  that  curtain  before  the  ministers,  that  the  inform- 
ers could  not  see  him  that  preached,  but  only  hear  him ;  and 
could  not  come  at  him,  by  reason  the  new  door  at  stair-foot 
was  kept  fast,  and  none  suffered  to  go  up  but  those  that  they 
knew  friends.  And  if  they  went  to  break  open  the  door, 
before  that  could  be  done,  they  could,  from  that  second  story, 
convey  the  minister  away  into  another  house  ;  and  if  they  had 
timely  notice,  they  would  be  all  singing  when  the  informers 
came,  as  we  and  Mr.  Weeks's  meeting  did.  These  ways  we 
took  to  maintain  our  meetings,  and  the  Lord  helped  us.  Thus, 
in  brief,  the  manner  of  the  four  congregations  in  general,  but 
our  particular  troubles  at  our  meeting,  which  is  Mr.  Hard- 
castle's,  were  as  follows. 

Upon  the  seventh  of  the  1st  month,  or  March,  1674-[5], 
in  the  morning,  an  informer  came  up  to  us,  and,  finding  one 
preaching,  he  ran  away  to  fetch  constables,  but  could  find 
none ;  so  we  were  quiet.  But  in  the  afternoon,  that  wicked 
man,  Hellier,  with  his  man  and  officers,  comes  up,  and 
finding  us  singing,  they  command  us  to  depart,  but  none  did ; 
then  they  go  up  and  down  the  room,  and  take  our  names, 
and  then  depart  to  other  meeting*. 

Upon  the  ninth  day  of  the  1st  month,  or  March,  1674-[5], 
our  congregation  being  met  at  brother  TerrilPs, — and  all  the 
four  congregations  met  the  same  day,  at  several  places,  accord- 
ing to  our  general  appointment,  to  keep  a  day  of  fasting  and 
prayer, — the  bishop's  man,  John  Whiting,  and  three  scrjeants, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  229 

came  with  a  warrant  from  the  mayor,  to  search  brother 
TerrilPs  house  for  a  meeting,  and  to  take  in  their  custody 
whom  they  thought  meet ;  but  brother  Terrill  denied  them 
entrance.  Whereupon  they  returned  in  great  rage,  to  fetch 
another  warrant  to  break  open  the  doors,  and  the  mayor 
granted  them  such  a  warrant,  to  break  open  the  doors,  Then 
they  come  again,  and  knock  at  the  gate  with  great  violence; 
but  brother  Terrill,  understanding  their  power,  gave  order 
that  none  should  answer  them,  but  let  them  knock  and  break 
open  the  door  if  they  would.  And  he  spake  to  the  friends  in 
the  meeting,  to  trust  in  God,  and  not  fear.  The  greatest 
danger  would  be  upon  him,  if  any.  Therefore  [he]  wished 
them  to  go  on  in  the  path  of  their  duty,  and  continue  praying 
to  God ;  which  they  did.  And  the  Lord  put  a  spirit  of  fear 
into  the  Serjeants'  hearts,  that  they  would  not  execute  the 
warrant  to  break  open  the  gate,  though  the  bishop's  man 
pressed  them  very  much.  So  after  long  knocking  and  wait- 
ing, when  none  this  second  time  answered  them,  they  departed. 
Eben  Ezer.     Laus  Deo. 

Upon  the  14th  day  of  1st  month,  March,  being  the  Lord's 
day  following,  1674-[5],  the  informers  and  officers  were  very 
rude,  and  used  much  violence.  In  the  morning,  before  the 
meeting's  exercise  began,  Hellier  and  his  hair-lipped  man, 
Tho.  Eyre,  came  up  into  our  meeting,  and  sat  down  in  a  chair 
for  a  while,  then  departs  to  a  constable,  a  barber,  that  lived 
over  against  our  meeting-house,  and  brought  the  said  constable 
with  him ;  by  which  time,  we  having  begun,  and  understand- 
ing of  his  again  coming,  we  were  singing  when  they  came  in. 
This  Hellier  commands  us  all,  in  the  king's  name,  and  by  a 
warrant  from  the  mayor,  to  depart :  which  the  people  not 
obeying,  Hellier  comes  to  brother  Terrill,  sitting  within  the 
inside  of  the  table,  and  commands  him,  in  the  king's  name,  to 
depart,  saying  he  was  a  ringleader.  But  brother  Terrill 
fitting  still,  and  singing  with  the  rest,  Hellier  lays  violent 


230  THE    RECORDS 

hands  on  him,  taking  him  by  the  arm,  and  plucked  him  very 
hard  ;  but  not  being  able  to  stir  him  from  the  place,  he  com- 
mands the  constable  to  take  him,  and  bring  him  away :  who, 
more  gently,  put  his  hand  upon  brother  Terrill,  being  by 
Hellier  commanded,  and  by  him  menaced.  But  brother 
Terrill  not  stirring,  Hellier  bids  the  constable  to  command  any 
one  at  the  table  to  assist  him;  but  the  constable  said,  Do  you 
bring  him,  and  I  will  assist  you.  So  they  stood  for  a  while, 
and  the  people  kept  singing.  Then,  by  and  by,  three  or  four 
Serjeants  came  to  assist  him.  Hellier  thereupon  commands 
one  of  them  to  bring  away  brother  Terrill :  so  a  third  came, 
and  plucked  him  by  the  hand,  and  then  by  the  clothes  of  his 
arm,  but  could  not  move  him  from  the  seat.  Then  the  Ser- 
jeant prayed  and  entreated  him  to  depart,  and  come  with 
him,  and  took  brother  Ten-ill's  hat  off  the  table,  and  put  it  on 
his  head.  But  brother  Terrill  plucked  it  off  again,  because 
they  were  still  singing;  and  so  the  serjeant  would  put  it  on 
again,  and  brother  Terrill  would  pluck  it  off.  So  three  or 
four  times  they  did.  Thus  having  pretty  well  tired  them- 
selves, and  not  prevailing,  being  loth  in  themselves  to  use 
too  much  violence  towards  him,  they  left  him,  and  took  some 
names,  and  so  departed. 

In  the  afternoon  of  said  day,  Hellier,  with  his  man, 
and  four  or  five  of  the  mayor's  Serjeants,  and  three  or 
more  from  the  bishop,  came  up  into  our  meeting;  which 
being  thronged,  though  large,  [they]  with  much  ado  got 
towards  the  midst  of  the  people,  where  some  grave  women 
sat  in  chairs,  whom  Hellier  and  the  Serjeants  pushed, 
and  hauled  very  rudely ;  especially  sister  Ekly,  an  ancient 
gentlewoman,  they  hauled  to  have  her  out  of  her  chair,  that 
they  might  go  farther;  but  she  keeping  her  seat,  they  step 
on  a  bench,  and  stride  over  a  rail.  First,  Robert  Edwards, 
the  serjeant,  then  Whiting,  the  bishop's  man,  a  desperate 
fellow,  who,  as  soon  as  he  had  got  behind,  her,  plucked  old 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  231 

Mrs.  Ekly's  chair  by  the  back ;  but  she  keeping  her  seat,  he, 
striving  much,  heaved  the  chair,  and  so  threw  the  gentle- 
woman out  of  it ;  and  then,  in  much  rage  and  great  vehe- 
rnency,  threw  the  chair  about  three  yards  from  him,  and  had 
there  not  been  a  rail,  might  have  spoiled  some  of  the  women 
behind.  When  this  was  done,  they  plucked  and  hauled  a 
young  man,  that  lived  with  a  merchant,  one  of  the  council, 
and  because  he  would  not  tell  his  name,  carried  him  away ; 
and  so  put  down  divers  names,  such  as  they  knew.  But 
coming  to  a  brother,  Mr.  Samuel  Buttall,7  that  about  three 
months  before  came  to  us  from  London,  a  person  they  knew 
not,  and  demanding  his  name,  because  that  he  would  not 
tell,  they  were  very  furious  towards  him,  and  Robert 
Edwards,  the  serjeant,  Hellier  being  by,  plucked  and  hauled 
him  very  much,  to  carry  him  also  away,  [and]  thrust  his 
mace  under  his  arm,  to  loose  his  hand  from  a  rail ;  but  not 
being  able  to  move  him  from  his  place,  two  of  the  bishop's 
men  (his  coachman  and  sexton),  throng  to  come  at  him,  and 
used  much  violence  to  him:  one  pulling  him,  the  other 
thrusting  and  striving  to  loose  his  arm,  until  the  bishop's 
sexton  did  sweat  again,  that  he  wiped  his  face  with  his 
handkerchief. 

At  last  he  told  them  his  name,  and  then  they  left  that 
gentleman,  and  go  on  taking  names.  They  meet  with 
another  stranger  they  knew  not,  a  person  of  good  worth, 
that  was  tall  and  grey,  who  had  lately  come  to  the  city 
upon  the  sad  occasion  of  the  death  of  his  son,  that  was  a 
tanner,    and   to   his   funeral ;    taking   care   about   his  son's 

7  [Mr.  Buttall's  name  has  occurred  previously,  resident  at  that  place,  and 
before  as  a  member  of  Mr.  Jessey's  attended,  with  Mr.  Holdenby,  the  gene- 
church,  see  pp.  104, 120.  He  is  probably  ral  assembly  in  1639,  where  he  is  desig- 
the  same  person,  who,  in  1690,  was  in-  nated  as  minister,  and  his  colleague 
vited  to  the  pastorate  of  the  church  at  pastor. — Ivimey,  i.  504,  ii.  120.  Rip- 
Plymouth,  where  he  succeeded  Mr.  pon's  Annual  Register,  p.  58.] 
Holdenby.    He  had  been,  for  some  time 


232  THE    RECORDS 

widow,  &c.  Him  they  likewise  pull  and  haul,  because  he 
would  not  readily  tell  his  name ;  but  after  they  had  used 
much  violence  towards  him,  he  tells  them  his  name.  But 
they,  not  content  with  that,  would  know  where  he  lived  ; 
which  he  not  willing  to  tell,  they  fall  upon  him  again, 
hauling  and  pulling  of  him,  but  could  not  get  him  out  of  the 
seat  where  he  was.  Then  some  of  the  bishop's  men  gat 
hold  of  his  legs,  others  of  his  arms,  and  so,  with  much 
violence,  dragged  him  out,  and  carried  him  away  to  Bride- 
well ;  where  he  remained  some  time,  and  then  was  com- 
mitted to  Newgale. 

Thus  after  these  and  divers  other  abuses  to  others,  and 
bad  language,  Hellier  calling  some  grave  women  "  confident 
jades,"  and  bid  the  Serjeants  carry  the  man  away  on  a  stang, 
at  last  they  departed ;  the  people  kept  singing  all  the  while. 
Then  our  time  being  expired,  we  concluded  with  prayer,  and 
so  ended  that  day.8 

Upon  this  day,  in  the  evening,  being  the  14th  of  first 
month,  1674,  our  aged  sister  Hazzard  departed,  in  the  close 
of  the  sabbath,  to  her  eternal  sabbath  of  rest.  She  was  the 
first  woman  member  in  the  congregation ;  she  lived  to  a 
great  age,  and  came  to  her  grave  a  shock  of  corn  fully  ripe.9 

Upon  the  21st  day,  first  month,  the  next  Lord's  day, 
Hellier  and  his  two  men,  with  two  of  the  bishop's  men,  and 
four  or  five  Serjeants,  came  in  to  our  meeting,  between  ten 

•  ["March    14th.      Divers    persons  prisoners  had  lent  them  a  candle  to  read 

were,    by    Mr.    Hellier,   committed    to  a  chapter  by,  the  keeper  came  and  took 

Newgate,  from  several  of  the  meetings ;  that  away,  leaving  them  all  night  with- 

some  were,  after  some  hours,  released  out  straw  or  a  bed  to  lie  upon,  or  a  seat 

again  upon  Mr.  Hellier's  note  to  the  keep-  to  sit  on,  had  not  the  other  prisoners 

er ;  others  were  kept  prisoners  for  some  lent  them  a  form." — A  Reply,  &c.  p. 

days."     They  were  placed  in  "one  of  13.      About  forty-five  were   convicted 

the  worst  places  in  Newgate,  where  was  on  the  following  day. — A  Sober  Answer, 

a   low,   damp,    earthen    floor,    denying  &c.  p.  21.] 

them  candle,   and   other    Decenary    ie-  ■  [A  similar  entry  occurs  in  another 

frethments.      And    when    some    of    the  part  of  the  Records.] 


OF   A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  233 

and  eleventh  hour.  They  command  us,  in  the  king's  name, 
to  depart ;  but  the  people  being  singing,  none  regard  it. 
Then  they  go  up  and  down  taking  names.  So  when  our 
time  was  expired,  we  departed,  leaving  the  officers  there.1 

Anno  1675. 

Upon  the  28th  day,2  March,  anno  1675,  this  Lord's  day, 
in  the  morning,  we  were  quiet;  by  reason  the  mayor,  with 
some  aldermen,  Serjeants,  and  informers,  were  busy  at  Mr. 
Weeks's  meeting.  In  the  afternoon,  near  half  an  hour  before 
our  time  was  expired,  John  Hellier,  Alderman  Streamer,  and 
their  men,  with  two  of  the  bishop's  men,  with  several  of  the 
constables,  came  up  into  our  meeting.  Pulling  several 
women  away,  they  got  into  the  middle  of  the  people,  and 
command  them,  in  the  king's  name,  to  depart;  but  the 
people  singing,  none  heeded  what  they  said,  but  sat  still. 
Then  Alderman  Streamer  commands  their  attendants  to  lay 
hold  on  such  and  such,  and  take  them  away;  among  whom 
brother  Dickason  was  laid  hold  on,  and  then  such  made 
no  resistance,  but  departed  at  the  order  of  a  justice.  And 
then  they  commanded  brother  Dickason  to  aid  them  in  their 
hauling  persons  away ;  which  he  refusing,  Hellier  orders 
brother  Dickason  to  be  carried  away  to  Bridewell.  Then, 
finding  the  work  to  be  hard  in  the  throng  of  the  people,  they 
secure  the  doors;  the  bishop's  men  at  one  door,  and  Alder- 
man Streamer  and  Hellier  at  the  other  door,  and  so  take 
every  one's  name  as  they  go  forth  ;  which  as  they  were  doing, 
the  mayor  coming  from  Mr.  Thompson's  meeting,  with  his 

1  ["  One  was  committed  to  Bridewell      knock   and   cut   the   ears   of  a   young 
by  him  (Mar.  21,  [16]74),  though  he      man."— A  Sober  Answer,  &c.  p.  21.] 
had  told  his  own,  for  not  telling  also  his  2  [On   the   27th,  the   day  previous, 

master's  name.     He  did  also  menace  to      about    fifty-four    were    convicted.  —  A 

Sober  Answer,  p.  21.] 


234  THE    RECORDS 

Serjeants,  and  Alderman  Hicks,  Sheriff  Wharton,  and  Deputy- 
Colston,  who  raged  very  much,  because  there  was  such 
abundance  of  people;  insomuch  that  from  the  time  they 
came,  until  they  had  done  taking  of  names,  was  about  an 
hour  and  an  half's  time.  And  many  more  people  gathered 
about  the  door,  where  they  stood  in  the  street,  that  there  was 
a  multitude  all  along  the  Broadmead,  Hellier  mocking  many 
as  they  gave  their  names. 

And  Hellier  beat  Mrs.  Bush's  son  with  his  staff;  and 
Alderman  Streamer  sent  away  sister  Ellis  the  elder,  after  she 
had  told  her  name,  to  Bridewell,  because  she  would  not  tell 
whether  she  was  a  wife  or  a  widow,  and  called  her  "ould 
carrion."  Thus  this  grave  gentlewoman,  and  ancient  citizen, 
was  as  others  abused.  But  as  the  bishop's  man,  the  sexton, 
was  going  with  her  to  Bridewell,  some  boys  and  young  men, 
knowing  him  that  conducted  her  to  prison  was  no  civil  officer, 
they  rushed  between  the  bishop's  man  and  Mrs.  Ellis,  and 
pushed  her  into  a  house  on  James's  Back  ;  and  so  he  lost  her, 
and  came  back  to  the  alderman  and  complained,  who  stormed 
about  it,  but  could  not  find  her. 

And  the  mayor,  at  the  same  time,  sent  away  sister 
Brookes's  maid,  by  reason  she  would  not  tell  her  name,  to 
Newgate.  Thus  they  used  them,  and  others  mocked  gentle- 
women, and  masters  of  ships'  wives,  with  such  filthy  expres- 
sions, not  meet  to  be  named ;  Hellier  calling  some  men 
rogues.  In  the  evening,  brother  Dickason  was  released, 
upon  his  word  to  appear  the  fourth  day  following;  and  then, 
upon  his  trial,  because  he  would  not  give  sureties  for  the 
good  behaviour  until  the  sessions,  he  was  committed  to 
Newgate;  and  they  would  not  then  take  sureties  for  his 
appearance,  although  he  was  illegally  sent  to  Newgate,  and 
first  to  Bridewell,  by  the  order  of  no  justice  of  the  peace, 
only  by  Hellier  the  informer.  And  at  his  trial,  this  being 
alleged,    Alderman    Hicks   owned  it,   and   said,    He   ordered 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  235 

him  to  be  carried  to  Bridewell ;  which  was  very  untrue,  for 
Alderman  Hicks  came  not  to  our  meeting  until  after  brother 
Dickason  was  carried  away.  Thus  may  be  seen  how  the 
alderman  justified  these  wicked  informers. 

Now  our  meetings  in  the  week,  or  working  days,  for  these 
two  weeks  last  past,  were  very  quiet.  Praise  be  to  the 
Lord,  who  brought  it  about  by  these  means !  Our  meetings, 
of  the  four  congregations,  were  several  years  past  thus  laid  : 
that  of  one  church  or  another  there  was  a  meeting  every  day 
of  the  week,  in  the  evening,  beginning  about  four  or  five 
o'clock,  for  two  hours,  except  the  last  day  of  the  week. 
Which  meetings  the  informers  did  hunt  constantly,  and  then 
the  next  day  give  in  their  informations  to  the  mayor  and 
aldermen.  So  that  through  their  granting  of  warrants,  and 
sending  their  Serjeants,  and  raising  constables,  to  suppress  us 
in  the  evening,  and  then  the  next  morning  receiving  informa- 
tions and  trials  (for  we  put  them  still  to  prove  what  was 
done  there),  the  magistrates  were  tired,  and  greAV  much 
weary,  complaining  they  could  do  little  else  at  the  Tolzey 
but  matters  about  meetings.  Whereupon  they  appoint  but 
one  day  in  the  week  to  hear  such  business,  because  as  men 
laden  with  heavy  burdens  (as  Zion  will  be  a  burdensome 
stone  to  all  that  afflict  her),  they  take  time  to  breathe,  that 
they  may  recover  strength  to  act  with  more  violence  the 
Lord's  day.  By  this  way,  all  keeping  constant  to  our  places 
and  duty,  the  Lord  many  times  gave  us  rest,  and  food  for 
our  souls,  when  we  should  work  for  our  bodies,  and  but  the 
Lord's  day  to  witness  for  him. 

Upon  the  fourth  of  second  month,  April,  1675,  being  the 
day  they  call  Easter,  our  adversaries  being  busy  upon  a 
superstitious  account,  we  had  rest  and  peace.  The  proud, 
fierce  prelate,  having  received  the  sop,  the  next  morning,  very 
early,  hasted  away  to  London,  about  his  master's  work ;  and 
in  order  to  his  sitting  in  parliament,  which  was  to  be  the 


236  THE    RECORDS 

13th  instant,  wherein  he  strenuously  endeavoured  against  us, 
but  through  the  Lord  effected  little.3 

Upon  the  11th  day,  and  the  18th  day,  we  had  rest;  only 
then,  the  old  informer,  the  bishop's  sexton,  Whiting,  came  up 
into  our  meeting,  and  finding  one  preaching,  he  attempted  to 
see  who  it  was,  but  could  not  for  the  curtain. 

Sister  Simmonds,  of-Lawford's  Gate,  a  woman  of  a  meek, 
humble  conversation,  departed  this  life  23rd  of  the  second 
month,  1675.  Interred  at  Philip's,  where  also  sister  Hazzard, 
before  deceased,  was  interred. 

Upon  the  25th  day  of  the  second  month,  anno  1675,  we 
were  again  greatly  troubled.  In  the  morning,  that  wicked 
man,  Hellier,  came  up  into  our  meeting  himself,  alone,  and 
not  finding  the  brother  that  was  exercised  speaking,  went 
down  again;  and  near  an  hour  after  comes  up  again,  with 
the  bishop's  man,  Whiting,  and  commands  us,  in  the  king's 
name,  to  depart.  The  people  keep  on  singing,  and  regard 
him  not ;  then  the  constables,  that  they  brought  with  them, 
they  put  at  the  door,  to  keep  it,  that  no  more  might  come  in. 
Of  which  we  had  some  intimation  the  evening  before,  [that  it] 
was  their  design  to  keep  us  out ;  wherefore  we  sent  up  and 
down,  from  one  to  another,  to  come  betimes,  and  get  into  our 
place  before  the  constables  and  officers  came.  And  so  we  were 
very  comfortably  met  early,  and  continued  the  exercise,  only 
the  interruption  aforesaid,  until  about  half  an  hour  past 
eleven.  Then  we  gave  liberty  for  those  that  were  weak,  or 
otherwise  not  able,  to  depart ;  the  rest  stayed  in  the  place,  for 
fear  we  should  not  get  in  again. 

3  ["It  was  thought  the  royal  authority  debates,  passed  the  House  of  Lords; 

could  not  be  carried  too  far,  nor   too  but  owing  to  a  collision  between  the  two 

many  precautions  taken  against  the  Don-  houses  on  a  question  of  breach  of  privi- 

conformists."      Additional    tests   were,  lege,  parliament  was  prorogued,  before 

therefore,  proposed,  and  a  bill  enforcing  it  came  before  the  lower  house  for  eon- 

tliem,   most  strenuously  supported   by  sideration. — llapin,  ii.  G77.] 
the    bishops    through    long    and     angry 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  237 

And  so  they  served  Mr.  Weeks's  people  ;  they  going  all 
home,  they  kept  them  out  in  the  afternoon,  and  Hellier 
dined  in  their  place  ;  and  they  threw  their  chairs  and  stools 
out  iu  the  street,  and  some  in  the  river  at  James's  Back. 
But  the  constables  at  our  door,  when  some  of  the  people 
went  away,  they  likewise  went  home  to  dinner ;  and  our 
friends  that  went  home,  with  others,,  came  together  to  the 
rest  in  the  afternoon  timely.  And  as  brother  Terrill  was 
speaking,  about  two  of  the  clock,  or  near  it,  two  of  the 
bishop's  men,  coming  in,  find,  us  then  singing ;  then  they  go 
away,  and  half  an  hour  after,  the  mayor  of  the  city,  and 
Alderman  Streamer,  with  several  officers,  come  up  into  our 
meeting ;  and  the  mayor  finding  us  only  singing,  and  none 
read  the  psalm,  in  great  rage  and  passion  he  strikes  one 
man's  bible  out  of  his  hand ;  so  fierce,  that  the  book  fled 
over  the  people's  head,  three  or  four  yards  from  him,  among 
the  people.  Then  in  said  rage,  the  mayor  commands  us,  in  the 
king's  name,  to  depart ;  but  the  people  keep  on  singing,  look- 
ing on  their  books  ;  which  the  mayor  perceiving  that  none  de- 
parted, he  fell  on  us  by  threats,  that  he  had  given  us  warning. 

Then  the  mayor  went  down  to  the  door,  and  commanded 
it  to  be  kept,  and  suffered  none  to  go  forth  but  as  they  gave 
their  names.  And  as  they  came  forth,  the  mayor  sent  three, 
namely,  brother  Simpson,  that  aged  disciple,  and  Mr.  Hill, 
with  Matthew  Price,  to  Newgate  prison :  where  he  had  sent 
six  of  Mr.  Weeks's  meeting  the  same  day,  as  they  met  in  the 
street  before  their  door,  because  they  kept  them  out,  and 
charged  them  as  persons  guilty  of  a  riot :  and  broke  into  the 
man's  house,  out  of  whose  window  the  minister  preached  to 
the  people ;  but  the  minister  escaped  when  the  sheriff  broke 
in.  This  clay,  Whiting,  the  bishop's  man,  broke  our  pulpit ; 
andthus  they  trampled  upon  us. 

This  week,  the  bishop'.?  men  [and  the]  informers,  are  very 
busy,  from  meeting  to  meeting,  every  day.    And  so  they  come 


238  THE    RECORDS 

to  our  public  meeting,  which  was  the  fifth  day  of  the  week. 
This  being  the  29th  day  of  second  month,  1675,  the  mayor's 
Serjeants  came  up  to  us ;  namely,  Robert  Edwards,  with 
Wilkins,  and  Cable,  Buck,  and  the  bishop's  two  men, 
came  into  our  meeting,  and  would  not  depart  until  we 
departed,  commanding  us  to  be  gone.  And  because  we 
would  not,  they  pull  and  haul  brother  Terrill  very  much  ; 
and  because  Robert  Edwards  could  not  make  him  depart,  he 
sends  an  officer  to  acquaint  the  mayor,  who  returned  with  an 
order  to  bring  brother  Terrill  before  him;  who  then  went 
with  them.  And  coming  before  the  Mayor,  after  some 
debate,  he  said  he  would  send  him  to  prison.  Hellier  being 
in  the  room,  with  Sheriff  Little,  and  some  others,  brother 
Terrill  desired  of  the  mayor  to  know  by  what  law  he  would 
send  him  to  prison.  Who  answered,  If  he  did  act  contrary 
to  law,  he  might  have  his  remedy  against  him.  Again 
brother  Terrill  desired  his  worship  to  let  him  know  his 
offence,  for  what  he  would  send  him  to  prison.  He  said, 
For  being  at  a  meeting.  Brother  Terrill  answered,  His 
being  barely  at  a  meeting  did  not  make  him  an  offender, 
unless  there  was  something  done  there  that  made  the  meeting 
criminal.  The  mayor  said,  We  were  singing.  I  told  him, 
Singing  of  psalms  was  not  contrary  to  the  liturgy  of  the 
church  of  England.  Then  Hellier  complained  to  the  mayor 
that  I  was  the  ringleader,  and  he  did  believe  I  was  their 
preacher,  and  that  he  could  do  no  good  if  the  mayor  did 
suffer  such  as  I.  The  mayor  joining,  said,  It  was  so  ;  I  was 
one  of  the  heads.  Brother  Terrill  said,  We  owned  no  head 
but  Jesus  Christ.  Then  the  mayor  would  make  this  con- 
struction, That  I  did  not  own  the  king  to  be  head.  Brother 
Terrill  said,  Not  so,  sir ;  I  own  the  king  to  be  supreme  head 
of  the  nation,  though  Christ  is  head  of  the  church.  But  the 
mayor  insisted  that  brother  Terrill  should  be  sent  to  prison, 
if  he  would  not  give  bond  for  the  good  behaviour;  whereby 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  239 

they  meant  to  tie  from  going  to  meetings.  Brother  Terrill 
refusing  so  to  do,  the  Serjeant  was  commanded  to  take  him 
away  to  prison.  Whereupon,  brother  Terrill  seeing  no  way 
to  avoid  their  present  heat,  he  desired  the  mayor  to  give 
him  a  little  time  to  consider  of  it, — but  until  the  morrow 
morning;  which  the  mayor  granted,  upon  his  promise  then 
to  appear.  And  brother  Terrill  did  so,  the  next  morning, 
appear  at  the  Tolzey ;  but  the  mayor  would  not  come  to  the 
Tolzey  that  morning  :  so  he  was  cleared  then.4 

The  mayor  having  sent  so  many  to  prison,  threatened  he 
would  send  ten  times  as  many  the  next  Lord's  day  as  he  had 
before ;  yet,  upon  the  next  Lord's  day,  being  the  second  day 
of  the  third  month,  1675,  the  Lord  wrought  strangely  for  us. 

For  when  we  got  into  our  meetings  betimes,  in  the  morn- 
ing, we  kept  in,  and  went  not  to  dinner  until  all  our  time 
was  over  for  that  day,  as  we  did  the  [Lord's]  day  before. 
So  did  Mr.  Weeks's  people  then ;  and  Hellier  and  the  con- 
stables could  not  get  them  out.  Then  the  mayor  sent  for 
two  of  the  chiefest  of  them,  namely,  Mr.  Christmas,  and 
Mr.  Thompson,  the  merchant,  before  him ;  and  after  reason- 
ing with  them,  threatened  them  that  he  would  come  down  to 
the  meeting  in  the  afternoon.  They  told  the  mayor,  If  he 
did,  he  should  find  them  there,  in  the  path  of  their  duty, 
waiting  upon  the  Lord.  But  the  Lord  altered  the  mayor's 
mind  that  he  came  not  then.  So  the  trouble  that  day  lay 
most  upon  Mr.  Weeks's  meeting,  the  said  Hellier  and  officers 
staying  there.  We  were  in  peace  ;  only  the  bishop's  two 
men  came  in,  and  viewed  us  in  the  afternoon. 

Then  two  or  three  Lord's  days  we  had  rest  and  peace. 
Praise  to  the  Lord!  For  Hellier,  now  at  term  time,  was 
gone  to  London,  and  the  bishop  there  before ;  in  the  absence 
of  these  troublers  of  our  Israel,  we  had  rest. 

Now  two  of  our  friends  that  were  imprisoned,  had  removed 

*  [The  exceptions  prepared  by  Mr.  Terrill  against  these  proceedings  are  in  the 
Addenda,  Note  F.] 


240  THE    RECORDS 

themselves  by  Habeas  Corpus  to  London,  to  have  their  cause 
tried  at  the  King's  Bench,  and  also  two  of  our  ministers, 
namely,  Mr.  Hardcastle,  and  Mr.  Weeks.  Habeas  Corpus 
was  sent  down  to  them,  to  bring  them  up,  to  try  if  their 
mittimus  was  good,  according  to  law ;  and  though  they  had 
illegally  proceeded  against  them  here,  yet,  through  some 
influenced  counsellors,  and  by  the  false  witness  the  mayor 
sent  up,  even  his  own  son,  young  Ralph  Ollive,  swearing 
falsely,  they  were  by  the  court  remanded  back  to  Bristol,  as 
prisoners,  but  with  an  order  that  the  sheriffs  should  provide  a 
better  prison  for  them. 

Upon  the  loth  day  of  third  month,  1675,  being  the  day  of 
their  trial  at  the  court  of  Westminster,  in  London,  the  four 
congregations  that  were  here  in  Bristol,  under  persecution, 
namely,  some  of  Mr,  Weeks's  and  Mr.  Hardcastle's,  some  of 
Mr.  Thompson's  and  Mr.  Gifford's,  met  together,  to  humble 
themselves  before  the  Lord,  and  to  seek  his  face  for  their 
two  ministers,  and  two  brethren,  on  their  trial  in  London 
aforesaid.  And  being  come  early  in  the  morning,  assembled 
in  the  castle,  in  the  meeting-place  of  Mr.  Thompson,  deceased, 
one  of  each  congregation  prayed ;  and  then  they  went  round 
again,  so  that  eight  brethren  prayed,  and  a  minister  con- 
cluded that  was  of  neither  of  the  congregations,  from  seven 
in  the  morning  to  twelve  at  noon.  Which  union,  and  joint 
praying  together,  was  much  liked  of  by  all  parties.  Thus 
being  driven  together  by  this  universal  trouble,  endeavours 
were  used  (why  should  we  not?)  to  strengthen  ourselves, 
against  the  bishop  and  his  abettors,  to  meet  all  together  upon 
the  week  days,  and  turn  our  four  lectures  into  one,  and  by 
turn  to  be  managed  by  all ;  so  that,  whereas  every  church 
did  keep  and  hold  up  one  lecture  a-piece,  a  general  lecture 
should  be  kept  every  week  for  all ;  so  that  they  wTould  still 
have  one  lecture  to  which  all  might,  come  ;  which  would  by 
the  conjunction  be  very  numerous  :  thereby,  more  formidable 
and  terrible  to  the  adversary,  if  we  did  so  unite. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  241 

To  this  end  each  congregation,  at  their  day  of  prayer, 
appointed  some  of  their  brethren  to  meet,  and  discourse  this 
business  of  union,  upon  the  24th  instant;  and  accordingly 
we  met  at  Mr.  Weeks's  house,  where  were  of  each  congrega- 
tion as  follows,  in  all  eighteen  brethren,  namely : — 

Of  Mr.  Weeks's  congregation, — 
Mr.  Chock,  Mr.  Doleman. 

Mr.  Thompson,  merchant, 

Of  Mr.  Hardcastle's,  our  congregation, — 

Brother  Ellis,  Brother  Samuel  Buttall, 

Brother  Ford,  Brother  Terrill. 

Brother  Gwilliam, 

Of  Mr.  Thompson's  congregation, — 

Mr.  Holwey,  Mr.  Richardson, 

Mr.  Scroope,  Mr.  Thompson, 

Mr.  Hughes,  Mr.  Wike. 

Of  Mr.  Gifford's  congregation, — 

Brother  Teague,  Brother  Adlam, 

Brother  Window,  Brother  Teather. 

The  business  of  union  was  all  agreed  upon,  by  each  con- 
gregation, as  the  answer  to  be  returned.  But  Mr.  Weeks's 
people  had  four  things  they  objected,  as  fears,  [lest]  such  a 
joining  together  so  near  might  rather  widen  and  hurt  that 
union  we  had  of  late,  and  good  thoughts  of  one  another. 
And  there  the  stick  and  obstruction  lay  with  them,  saying, 
How  can  two  walk  together  except  they  be  agreed  ? 

The  four  things  objected  by  Mr.  Weeks's  people,  were  as 
follows,  namely :  — 

1st.  They  said  they  were  for  praying  for  magistrates, 
according  to  the  scriptures,  whether  good  or  bad. 

R 


242  THE    RE*CORP- 

2nd.  They  were  for  singing  of  psalms  with  others  besides 
the  church. 

3rd.  They  were  for  none  to  "preach  but  them  that  had  a 
scriptural  call ;  that  is,  ordained  by  presbyters. 

4th,  That,  it  may  'be,  we  would  endeavour  to  persuade 
those  of  them  to  be  baptized  that  were  against  it ;  that  is, 
some  we  judged  the  best. 

To  the  first,  we  were  all  for  it,  as  a  duty  to  pray  for 
magistracy,  as  well  as  they;  but  in  some  unscriptural  titles 
and  expressions  that  some  of  them  did  use,  some  of  us  were 
not  for ;  that  is,  which  some  of  the  presbyterian  friends  did 
use.  But  it  was  agreed,  that  we  would  bear  with  one 
another  if  we  could  not  say  Amen  in  all  things  ;  and  not  to  be 
offended  if,  at  every  time,  some  did  not  mention  that  petition. 

To  the  second,  three  of  the  congregations  agreed  as  to 
matter  and  form,  and  also  some  of  brother  Gifford's  people 
were  for  it.  But  others  of  them  could  not  sing  in  metre,  as 
they  were  translated ;  though  all  of  them  did  hold  with 
singing  of  psalms.  Only  some  scrupled  the  manner,  that 
they  could  not  show  their  dislike  thereof  by  keeping  on  the 
hat,  at. going  forth  ;  which  thing  so  to  do  would  not  be  con- 
sented unto  by  the  three  other  congregations.  But  they 
terminated  it  here :  that  if  we  did  so  agree  in  union,  that 
such  persons  were  desired  to  stay  away,  if  they  would  not 
keep  off  their  hats,  and  sit  still. 

To  the  third,  we  were  all  for  an  orderly  ministry,  and  to 
have  a  scriptural  call,  or  else  not  to  preach ;  and  to  have 
those  that  were  ministers  in  office  to  be  ordained  by  laying 
on  of  hands. 

But  forasmuch  as  it  was  [a]  matter  of  principle  who  were 
the  persons  fit  to  ordain,  we  would  lay  aside  that,  and  not 
dispute  our  principles  in  that  respect,  but  go  to  our  matter  of 
practice.  We  did  all  know  each  other's  ministers ;  our 
business  lay  there,  that  we  should  join  to  hear  them,  every 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  243 

one,  when  out  of  prison.  And  for  the  present  distress,  we 
judged  it  our  duty-  to  make  use  of  the  best  gifts  we  had ;  and 
so  to  hear  them  as  gifted  brethren,  and  not  as  ministerially 
called. 

As  to  the  fourth,  that  in  this  meeting  of  union  none 
should  preach  up  baptism  of  believers,  nor  any  other  should 
preach  against  it :—     _ 

This  was  to  be  declared  to  each  church,  and  then  to  meet 
about  it  again,  the  last  day  of  the  week.  Accordingly,  on 
the  29th  instant,  the  brethren  appointed  of  the  four  congre- 
gations, met  about  uniting  our  four  particular  lectures  into 
one  general  lecture,  to  be  managed  by  turns  by  one  teacher 
of  each  congregation. 

It  was  agreed  by  the  two  baptized  congregations,  namely, 
our  congregation,  and  brother  Gifford's  congregation,  and  by 
the  members  of  the  independent  church,  Mr.  Thompson's, 
deceased,  so  to  unite.  But  our  friends,  called  presbyterians, 
were  not  satisfied  so  to  do ;  but  pretended,  at  least,  for- 
bearance, until  their  pastor  and  ours  came  from  London ; 
and  so  we  appointed  to  meet  about  it  again,  a  week  after 
they  came  home,  the  next  second  day  se'nnight. 

Also  then,  when  we  were  together  upon  said  29th  day, 
third  month,  1675,  we  appointed  the  next  fifth  day  of  the 
week,  named  Thursday,  3rd  June,  [16]75,  being  the  day  of 
prayer  that  we  now  kept  during  this  persecution  every 
fortnight,  apart  in  every  congregation  by  themselves,  should 
be  kept  all  together,  the  four  congregations ;  and  the  work  of 
prayer  should  be  carried  on  by  the  members  of  each  congre- 
gation, at  Mr.  Thompson's  meeting-place,  in  the  Castle,  near 
Water  Gate. 

Upon  the  fifth  day  of  this  instant,  fourth  month,  1675,  our 
pastor,  Mr.  Hardcastle,  and  Mr.  Weeks,  returned  home  from 
London  to  prison  again,  in  Newgate  of  this  city  of  Bristol. 

The  next  day,  being  Lord's  day,  the  6th  June,  1675,  we 

R  2 


244  THE    RECORDS 

having  had  [for]  three  or  four  Lord's  days  our  meetings  in 
peace,  through  riches  of  grace,  goodness,  and  long-suffering  of 
the  Lord,  during  one  of  the  chief  instruments  of  our  persecu- 
tion being  at  London:  but  now  that  wicked  man,  Mr. 
Hellier,  being  come  home,  he  caused  much  trouble  this  day. 
At  Mr.  TVreeks's  meeting  especially :  he,  with  the  constables, 
stayed  there,  mocking  and  striking  some,  pulling  and  hauling 
others :  and  so  both  morning  and  afternoon  he  was  there,  and 
hindered  them  that  they  could  not  preach,  but  sing,  pray,  and 
read  chapters.  And  at  our  meeting  in  the  morning,  as  the 
brother  that  came  to  town  to  give  us  a  visit  in  this  our  trouble, 
namely,  Zephany  Smith,  was  preaching,  about  half  an  hour 
past  ten,  the  mayor  and  sheriffs,  Mr.  Wharton  and  Fielding, 
and  Alderman  Crab,  with  the  sword-bearer  and  Serjeants, 
came  up  into  our  meeting,  and,  as  formerly,  we  were  singing. 
The  mayor  commanded  us  to  depart ;  but  all  keep  singing, 
and  thereby  but  few  heard  what  he  said,  and  so  took  no  notice 
of  it,  but  kept  on ;  every  one  with  their  books  in  their  hands. 
They  sing  without  any  one  to  read  the  psalm  to  them  :  for 
according  to  our  late  manner,  since  our  trouble,  we  at  the 
beginning  of  the  exercise,  in  our  congregation,  did  always 
name  the  psalm  they  should  sing,  if  trouble  came  :  and  so 
every  one,  with  their  books,  read  for  themselves.  And  thus 
doing,  when  the  mayor  spake  to  some  in  particular,  such  as  he 
accounted  chief  in  the  meeting,  to  forbear,  they  would  some- 
times forbear  if  the  mayor  stood  by  them  ;  but,  notwithstand- 
ing, all  the  people  sang  round  about  his  ears,  keeping  on,  that 
he  with  the  rest  with  him  knew  not  what  to  do :  but  went 
down  the  stairs  to  the  door,  and  there,  with  his  officers,  stayed 
till  we  had  done. 

So  the  eleventh  hour  being  come,  he  sends  up  his  Serjeants 
to  pray  us  to  depart :  and  they  were  answered,  some  were 
going  forth  and  they  would  not  let  them  go ;  which  was  true. 
The  mayor  kept  one  of  the  doors  and  would  not  let  us  pass 


A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  245 

that  way  ;  and  at  the  other  door  had  his  officers  and  clerk  to 
take  our  names ;  and  so  as  we  passed  out  they  demand  our 
names,  and  write  them  down.  Thus  the  morning  was  ended; 
but  many  people  passed  into  several  rooms  of  small  tenements 
in  the  house,  and  so  their  names  not  taken. 

In  the  afternoon  we  were  quiet,  but  Mr.  Weeks  much 
troubled. 

Upon  the  14th  day  of  the  4th  month,  1675,  being  the  day 
appointed  for  some  of  each  congregation,  about  the  business  of 
union,  to  meet,  we  did  accordingly  meet  at  Mr.  Weeks's 
house;  of  the  four  separate  churches  these  brethren,  viz. : — 

Of  Mr.  Thompson's  congregation, — 

Mr.  Holwey,  Dr.  Chauncey, 

Mr.  Scroope,  Mr.  Hughes, 

Mr.  Wike,  Mr.  Thompson. 

Of  Mr.  Hardcastle's,  our  congregation, — 

Brother  Ellis,  Brother  Dickason, 

Brother  Gwilliam,  Brother  Terrill. 

Brother  King, 

Of  Mr.  Weeks's  congregation, — 

Mr.  Chock,  Mr.  Doleman, 

Mr.  Thompson,  Mr.  Tucker. 

Mr.  Pope, 

Of  Mr.  GifFord's  congregation, — 

Brother  Teague,  Brother  Adlam. 

Brother  Window, 

Our  presbyterian  friends,  viz.,  Mr.  Weeks's  people,  or  those 
above  named  that  met  in  behalf  of  that  congregation,  they 
declared,  in  the  name  of  the  rest,  that  they  were  against 
uniting  the  four  lectures  into  one,  or  into  two  lectures,  as 
others  were  for ;  so  for  their  parts  they  were  against  any  such 


246  THE    KECOKDm 

uniting.  Therefore  that  debate  was  ended,  of  uniting  that 
way.  Then,  after  several  debates,  in  fine,  it  was  by  all  agreed 
and  consented  to,  that  we  should  unite  in  keeping  some  days 
of  prayer  together :  some  days  stated,  and  some  occasional 
days,  as  often  as  need  should  require  that  the  four  congrega- 
tions should  meet  together. 

First,  we  agreed,  that  the  first  (sixth  day  of  the  week  called) 
Friday  in  the  month  that  should  happen  after  every  quarter- 
day  of  the  year,  should  be  the  stated  day  of  prayer,  for  all  the 
four  congregations  to  join  together  in  that  work ;  that  is  to 
say,  the  first  Friday  in  July,  the  first  Friday  in  October,  the 
first  Friday  in  January,  the  first  Friday  in  April,  should  be 
the  stated  quarter-days  for  prayer :  and  so  continually,  four 
times  in  the  year,  to  keep  a  day  for  fasting  and  prayer  for  the 
four  churches,  and  only  one  minister  on  each  day  to  preach  an 
hour  in  the  midst;  and  that  to  be  the  day,  unless  the  eight 
brethren,  that  is,  the  two  of  each  church's  messengers,  do 
think  meet  to  alter  the  day,  upon  some  emergency,  either 
earlier  or  later. 

Secondly,  we  also  agreed,  that  besides  the  said  quarterly 
stated  days  for  the  four  congregations'  joint  prayer,  we  should, 
and  will  for  time  to  come,  keep  other  occasional  days  of  fast- 
ing and  prayer,  as  often  in  each  quarter  as  need  shall  require, 
when  any  one  church  shall  desire  it,  by  sending  two  messen- 
gers from  their  congregation  to  signify  their  desire;  and 
leave  it  with  them,  the  two  messengers  of  each  other  congre- 
gation deputed  for  their  public  business,  that  they  may  acquaint 
their  respective  congregations  of  it,  and  so  join  together  as 
often  as  need. 

Thirdly,  and  lastly,  it  was  agreed  concerning  the  ordering 
of  ourselves  in  our  meetings  in  this  day  of  trouble,  that  none 
stir  from  the  meeting  when  the  informers,  or  any  officers,  come 
whatsoever.  And  if  the  mayor  himself  come,  that  we  move 
or  depart  but  very  slowly,  when  forced,  if  he  doth  much  insist 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  247 

on  it,  and  command  our  departure.     These  were  our  joint 
conclusions  for  all  the  churches  at  that  time. 

Upon  the  13th  day  of  this  4th  month,  1675,  sister  Powlden, 
a  member  of  Mr.  Gosnold's  congregation  in  London,  by  virtue 
of  a  letter  of  recommendation  from  him,  was  admitted  into  our 
congregation.  Then  for  four  Lord's  days  we  had  rest  and 
peace,  through  the  good  hand  of  the  Lord,  in  the  absence  of 
that  wicked  man,  Mr.  Hellier :  he  being  the  chief  instrument 
the  bishop  used  in  this  persecution.  He  was  a  lawyer,  and 
one  of  the  city  attorneys,  with  about  two  hundred  pounds  per 
annum.     He  being  now  at  term  in  London,  we  were  quiet. 

Upon  the  18th  day  of  the  5th  month,  July,  1675,  Hellier 
being  come  home,  he  and  his  man  come  timely  up  into  our 
meeting,  it  being  the  Lord's  day,  and  takes  his  view  of  us,  a 
little  before  we  began  exercise ;  then  departs  to  the  mayor, 
and  sends  for  some  aldermen.  The  mayor  first  sends  his  Ser- 
jeants to  us,  who  come  up  into  our  meetings,  and  in  the  king's 
name  command  us  to  depart.  But  all  singing  together,  no 
regard  was  shown,  as  though  we  did  not  hear.  Then  they 
depart,  with  threats,  after  they  had  stayed  some  time ;  and 
by  and  by  they  come  again,  commanding  us  to  depart  as 
before,  but  none  obey  them ;  then  they  again  departed.  After 
that,  about  ten  of  the  clock  in  the  morning,  the  mayor  him- 
self, with  Sheriff  Wharton  and  Sheriff  Fielding,  came,  with 
Alderman  Hicks,  also  the  sword-bearer  and  Serjeants;  they 
came  up  into  our  meeting,  and  the  mayor  commands  us  all  in 
the  king's  name  to  depart ;  but  as  they  were  coming  we  began 
to  sing,  and  so  kept  on  singing  that  few  heard  what  he  said. 
Then  he  calls  out  to  one  and  to  another  of  the  brethren  that 
he  knew,  and  commands  them  to  depart ;  but  they  answered 
not.  Then,  in  a  rage  and  great  fury,  the  mayor  comes 
through  the  people  to  the  table,  and  takes  hold  of  brother 
Terrill  by  the  hand,  and  pulls  him  out ;  who,  seeing  the 
mayor  himself  plucked  him,  said  nothing,  but  went  with  him 


248  THE    RECORDS 

a  few  steps :  and  so  the  mayor  delivers  him  to  one  of  the  Ser- 
jeants, and  commands  him  to  secure  the  said  brother  Terrill. 

Then  the  mayor  calls  to  other  brethren  to  depart ;  but  all 
singing,  they  answer  not.  Then  he  commands  the  Serjeants 
to  pull  away  one  and  another,  and  thus  after  a  while,  when 
they  had  turned  divers  down  stairs,  the  mayor  himself  goes 
down  to  the  door ;  but  Alderman  Hicks  and  the  sheriffs  stay, 
and  command  more  to  be  hauled  out  of  the  meeting ;  then 
they  also  go  down  to  the  door,  and  leave  the  Serjeants  to  turn 
out  the  rest,  and  bring  them  to  the  street-door,  where  they 
take  their  names  as  they  turned  them  out.  And  when  the 
serjeant  that  held  brother  Terrill  all  the  while  very  fast,  and 
would  not  let  him  go,  as  though  he  was  a  felon,  or  would  run 
away ;  but  the  said  brother,  seeing  their  height  of  spirit,  was 
silent,  although  that  serjeant,  with  others,  used  many  insult- 
ing words  and  threats,  that  now  his  estate  should  not  serve. 
Then  they  brought  him  down  (after  Sheriff  Fielding,  who 
likewise  used  many  words  very  superbious)  to  the  door  before 
the  mayor,  expecting  the  mayor,  according  to  his  words,  would 
have  sent  him  to  Newgate ;  but  the  Lord  strangely  altered  the 
mayor's  mind,  that  he  did  not  send  him  to  the  prison :  saying, 
he  would  let  him  go  at  this  time,  but  if  ever  he  did  take  him 
at  a  meeting  again,  he  would  send  him  to  prison.  Although, 
above,  in  the  meeting,  the  mayor  said  he  did  believe  the  said 
brother  Terrill  was  the  preacher,  and  would  commit  him  to 
Newgate ;  yet,  through  the  good  hand  of  the  Lord,  none  at  that 
time  from  our  meeting  was  sent  to  prisou,  but  Mr.  Jonathan 
Buttall,  that  formerly  walked  with  us,  and  was  lately  come 
again  from  London  to  live  here. 

And  when  the  mayor  had  done  with  our  meeting  it  was 
about  eleven  of  the  clock,  and  then  went  to  Mr.  Gifford's 
meeting,  where  Hellier  and  Alderman  Streamer  were  come, 
after  they  had  done  at  Mr.  Weeks's  meeting.  But  as  the 
mayor   went  home  by   the   prison,   he    commands   that    Mi\ 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  249 

Buttall  should  be  brought  out  of  prison,  before  him  at  his 
house ;  who,  when  he  came  before  him,  was  for  the  present 
released,  but  obliged,  by  promise,  to  appear  the  next  morning 
before  him  at  the  Tolzey. 

Thus  the  morning  was  passed  over.  Then  we  met  again 
in  the  afternoon.  Then  Hellier  and  some  constables  come 
into  our  meeting,  and  command  us,  in  the  king's  name,  to 
depart.  About  half  an  hour  after,  some  Serjeants  [come],  and 
so  again,  and  then  they  sat  down  with  us,  after  they  had  first 
commanded  us,  in  the  king's  name,  to  depart ;  but,  all  singing 
when  they  came  in,  none  departed  until  our  time  was  come. 
Then  they  kept  fast  our  doors,  and  for  a  time  would  not  let 
us  depart.  At  last  they,  with  Hellier  and  his  man,  took  our 
names  at  the  door;  and  Hellier  running  after  some  young 
man,  gave  him  a  sore  blow,  and  then  commands  the  serjeant 
to  carry  him  to  Bridewell. 

The  18th  day  of  the  5th  month: — In  this  afternoon  meet- 
ing, Mr.  Robert  Colston,  soap-boiler,  came  up,  and  (some  not 
suspecting  him  as  a  spy,  being  no  known  informer)  stood  as  a 
hearer  among  the  people.  And  when  notice  was  given  that 
the  known  informers  were  coming,  the  person  which  attended 
the  curtain  drew  it  a  little  too  soon,  before  he  that  was  then 
speaking  sat  down  ;  he  saw  brother  Terrill  speaking,  and  then 
he,  the  said  Mr.  Colston,  went  down  out  of  the  meeting: 
after  which,  when  the  Serjeants  came  up,  they  said  to  brother 
Terrill,  As  for  your  part,  there  is  information  gone  to  the 
mayor  that  you  preached.  And  the  next  morning,  the  said 
Robert  Colston  went  to  the  Tolzey,  before  the  mayor  and 
aldermen,  and  gave  in  his  information  upon  oath  :  that  the 
day  before  he  heard  Edward  Terrill  preach,  and  when  he  had 
done  he  saw  him  step  down  and  lay  down  his  book.  This  he 
declared  as  his  information  before  the  justices,  and  then  signed 
it  with  his  hand  for  his  deposition. 

Whereupon,  brother  Terrill  being  upon   the  Tolzey,  not 


250  THE    RECORDS 

knowing  what  was  done  in  the  council-house,  the  mayor  sent 
Serjeants  for  him  ;  but  brother  Bodenham,  accidentally  being 
in  the  council-house,  and  hearing  the  order  to  send  for  brother 
Terrill,  came  forth  before  the  Serjeants,  and  told  brother 
Terrill  that  there  was  order  to  take  him:  who,  thereupon, 
walked  off  the  Tolzey,  and  so  by  the  good  hand  of  the  Lord's 
preservation  towards  him,  he  escaped  them  that  time,  that  the 
Serjeants  could  not  find  him.  Whereupon  the  mayor  grants 
out  a  warrant  to  take  brother  Terrill,  which  they  could  noj  do 
that  week,  although  the  constables  were  straitly  charged  to 
bring  him  in  to  the  quarter  sessions,  which  were  that  week ; 
who  returned,  they  could  not  meet  with  him. 

Then  the  mayor  in  open  court  said,  they  would  meet  with 
him  (meaning  the  next  Lord's  day)  at  the  meeting,  which 
when  come,  Hellier,  with  the  mayor's  Serjeants  and  consta- 
bles, came  to  the  meeting  in  the  morning,4  being  the  25th 
July,  1675,  the  fair  day,  and  searched  for  brother  Terrill,  to 
carry  him  away ;  who  though  he  was  at  the  meeting,  yet  was 
so  concealed,  and  conveyed  into  another  room  under,  that  they 
found  him  not;  which  was  not  a  little  trouble  to  them  to  be  so  dis- 
appointed. And  several  times  the  next  weekhe  narrowly  escaped 
them,  through  the  good  hand  of  the  Lord  that  still  hid  him. 

This  25th  July,  1675,  the  fair  day,  being  Lord's  day, 
Hellier  let  us  alone  in  the  afternoon :  by  reason  when  he  came 
in  the  morning  to  our  meeting,  he  saw  there  a  stranger,  a 
gentleman  and  his  wife  from  Coventry,  that  was  a  client  of 
his,  and  the  day  before  had  invited  him  to  dinner  that  day ; 
but  the  gentleman  knew  not  that  Hellier  was  such  a  man,  till 
that  day  found  him  to  be  about  such  work.  Yet,  notwith- 
standing, the  gentleman  went  to  his  house  to  dinner,  and  would 
have  reasoned  with  him  about  his  evil  work,  but  he  would  not 
discourse  of  that. 

But  in  the  afternoon,  Hellier  much  troubled  Mr.  Weeks's 

*  Twenty-fourth  Lord's  day  [that  is,  of  Mr.  Hardcastle'8  first  imprisonment]. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  251 

meeting ;  and  after  it  was  over,  he  burned  three  chairs  and 
stools  as  fast  as  he  could,  having  kindled  a  fire  in  the  chimney 
in  the  place,  and  made  a  great  flame,  until  the  landlord  of  the 
house  heard  of  it,  and  came  and  caused  the  fire  to  be  quenched, 
lest  the  house  should  be  burned. 

Twenty-fifth  Lord's  day,  being  1st  August,  1675,  we  were 
very  quiet,  Hellier  being  out  of  town  at  Wells  assizes,  to 
prepare  his  counsel  and  Judge  North,  against  his  trial  to  be  the 
sixth  day  of  this  month  here :  for  some  friends  prosecuted  him 
for  his  perjury,  and  some  other  irregular  things  he  had  done 
— where  accordingly  he  was  tried  before  the  judges  of  this 
circuit,  and  many  notorious  crimes  laid  against  him.  Yet, 
such  are  the  corruptions  of  the  times,  and  judgment  perverted, 
that  the  judge  cleared  him  of  all  his  wickedness,  barratry, 
forgery,  and  perjury ;  so  that  we  saw,  by  experience,  the 
judges,  as  well  as  the  justices,  were  resolved  to  tread  us  down, 
because  we  would  not  conform  to  their  worship.  That  as 
Christians  we  should  have  no  peaceable  enjoyment,  and  as 
men  we  should  have  no  justice.  So  that  our  persons  and 
estates  lay  at  their  wills  and  pleasure ;  for  if  they  acted  any- 
thing towards  us  contrary  to  law,  when  we  sought  to  relieve 
ourselves  thereby,  we  should  have  no  benefit  thereof.  For 
we  spent  above  5001.  to  defend  ourselves  as  Englishmen,  but 
most  in  vain.     Behold,  O  Lord  !  the  wicked  justified. 

*24th  March,  1675-6.— The  general  disbursements  for  the  four 
congregations  : — 
After  allowance  being  made  for 
what  money  was  paid  in  at  first, 
there  is  due  £447  4s.  4d.,  as 
by  the  particular  accounts  ex- 
amined, by  Richard  Christmas 
and  Jeremy  Holwey,  expressly 
and  by  agreement  made,  is  to  be 
paid  according  to  the  dividend 
on  the  other  side  .   .  £'447  4  4 


£ 

s. 

d. 

To  1  per  Weeks's  .  178 

17 

10 

To  i  per  Castle  .   .111 

16 

1 

To  Mr.  Hardcastle's 

4  remd.        .     .     78 

5 

2-i 

To   Mr.    Giffbrd's 

^  remd.  ...     78 

5 

21 

^<2 

£447 

4 

4 

252  THE    RECORDS 


Edward  Terrill  is  Dr.  to 
£78  5s.  2^d.  for  their  congre- 
gation. 


Is  Cr.  :  £      s.    d. 

By  £70  to  the  genl. 

account  .  .  .  70  0  0 
By  the  balance  due 

to  Jeremy  Holwey  8     5     2£ 


£78    5    24 


Anno  1675.  This  is  the  value  of  goods  taken  from  these 
poor  men  for  going  to  meetings  at  Woolland,  by  order  of 
Justice  Meredith: — 


£   s. 

d. 

Tobias  Dimmock 

.     10  15 

0 

Thomas  Lane 

10    5 

0 

Thomas  Jones 

.     10    5 

0 

John  Frig 

9  10 

0 

William  Jones 

.       6    5 

0 

John  Jones 

5    5 

0 

Samuel  Learney     . 

.      3    5 

0 

Henry  Whitchurch 

1    5 

0 

Edward  Jones 

.      0  15 

0 

£57  10 

0 

Upon  the  second  of  this  said  sixth  month,  Mr.  Hardcastle 
and  Mr.  Weeks,  their  time  of  six  months'  imprisonment  being 
expired,  are  at  liberty.  Mr.  Hardcastle,  the  next  Lord's  day, 
goes  to  his  congregation  in  their  public  place  and  preacheth ; 
Hellier  comes  up  and  sees  him,  then  departs  and  fetcheth  con- 
stables and  Serjeants,  and  after  Mr.  Hardcastle  had  reasoned 
with  them,  he  would  not  come  down  until  he  had  ended  his 
sermon  and  concluded  with  prayer,  although  they  charge  him 
and  threaten  him  very  sore.  Then  they  carry  him  away  to 
the  mayor,  and  convict  him  for  preaching  in  the  corporation, 
upon  the  Five  Mile  Act ;  but  let  him  depart  for  that  time, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  253 

because  they  could  not  imprison  him  for  the  first  offence  until 
one  day  after. 

THE    SECOND   TIME    MR.    HARDCASTLE    IMPRISONED. 

The  next  Lord's  day,  being  fifteenth  day  of  the  6  th  month, 
August,  1675,  Mr.  Hardcastle  goes  again  to  the  said  public 
meeting  place,  and  preacheth  again.  Hellier  comes  betimes, 
and  finds  him  preaching :  departs,  and  brings  Alderman  Law- 
ford,  with  Serjeants  and  the  bishop's  secretary,  and  others  of 
his  servants,  near  twenty  in  all  came :  makes  great  disturb- 
ance, and  at  last  carries  Mr.  Hardcastle  away  before  the 
mayor,  who  sends  him  to  prison.  In  the  afternoon  we  were 
quiet,  having  just  done  before  Hellier  came  ;  and  so  had  Mr. 
Weeks's  and  Mr.  Gifford's  people. 

Then  Hellier's  crew,  the  bishop's  men  and  officers,  being  in 
the  afternoon  disappointed  of  these  three  meetings,  in  James's 
parish,  just  ending  together  before  he  came,  they  went  in  a 
rage  to  the  meeting  in  the  castle,  viz.,  Mr.  Thompson's, 
where  they  were  singing,  but  could  not  find  the  person  that 
preached.  But  Mr.  Jeremy  Holwey,  senior,  concluded  in 
prayer ;  therefore  him  they  carried  away  before  the  mayor, 
who  obliged  him  to  appear  when  sent  for ;  and  so  that  day's 
trouble  ended. 

Note.  Mr.  Weeks,  the  minister  of  our  friends  called  presby- 
terians,  though  let  out  with  Mr.  Hardcastle,  yet  he  would  not 
preach  these  two  [Lord's]  days  past;  but  went  out  of  town 
the  first  day  that  Mr.  Hardcastle  preached. 

Brother  Terrill,  before  mentioned,  that  supplied  the  meet- 
ing in  our  pastor's  first  imprisonment,  being  impeached,  by  a 
new  informer  that  espied  him,  about  two  days  before  Mr. 
Hardcastle  was  freed  from  his  first  imprisonment,  there  were 
several  warrants  granted  out  from  the  mayor,  Ralph  Ollive, 
to  take  him ;  but  the  officers  were  willing  to  avoid  him,  and 


2.U  THE    RECORDS 

not  execute  the  warrant.  But  at  the  general  sessions,  the 
recorder  being  judge  in  town  for  gaol  delivery,  the  said  brother 
Terrill  was,  with  Mr.  Holwey,  Mr.  Scroope,  Mr.  Christmas, 
Mr.  Bugnall,  Mr.  Wall,  &c.,  indicted  by  Hellier  for  not  coming 
to  their  parish  church;  and  having  before  been  attached  for  the 
same,  bond  was  given  for  his  appearance  with  them,  to  answer 
the  suit,  upon  the  indictment  of  the  35th  of  Queen  Elizabeth.5 
So  the  said  brother  Terrill,  waiting  at  sister  Saunders's, 
near  the  hall,  where  his  bondsman,  Mr.  Holwey,  should  send 
for  him  when  called — there  waiting,  the  parson  of  Peter's, 
called  Pledwell,  and  Heath  of  Austin's,  and  Robert  Colston, 
the  informer,  espies  him ;  who  after  conferring  with  the 
bishop's  men,  his  secretary  comes  with  an  officer  of  the  mayor's 
that  had  the  warrant,  and  charges  him  to  take  the  said  brother 
Terrill  in  custody,  and  bring  him  before  the  mayor.  But 
brother  Terrill  viewing  that  warrant,  finds  fault  or  defect  in 
the  warrant,  for  that  was  but  the  tenth  day  of  August,  and 
the  warrant  was  dated  the  27th  of  the  said  month,  which  was 
not  yet  come.  Therefore  he  said  to  the  officer,  by  virtue  of 
said  warrant  he  had  no  power  to  meddle  of  me ;  but  the 
officer  praying  him  to  go  into  court — for  he  did  not  dare  to  do 
otherwise,  because  the  bishop's  secretary  had  charged  him 
with  him,  and  because  he  had  before  time  been  civil  towards 
him,  the  said  brother  Terrill — he  went  into  court  with  the 
officer.     And  the  warrant,  instead  of  being  delivered  to  the 

5  [This  was  an  act  to  retain  "  the  nounced  their  submission.  Those  who 
queen's  majesty's  subjects  in  their  due  refused  the  submission  were  to  abjure 
obedience."  By  its  provisions  any  per-  the  realm.  Collier  vii.  1G3.  ''But  it  is 
son  above  sixteen  years  of  age,  obsti-  not  yet  declared  whither  they  shall  be 
nately  refusing  to  hear  divine  worship  in  sent;  time  enough  to  discourse  of  that, 
the  p  nish  church,  for  a  month,  or  in  any  when  by  the  prosecution  of  the  3.5th  of 
way  persuading  others  to  deny  or  with-  Elizabeth — for  all  engines  are  on  work- 
stand  the  royal  supremacy  in  things  to  effect  their  ruin— they  shall  be  en- 
ecclesiastical,  or  being  present  at  a  con-  forced,  who  will  not  choose  to  be  hanged, 
venticle,  when  convicted  was  committed  very  fairly  to  forswear  tho  land.^ — A 
to  prison  till  they  conformed  and   pro-  Sober  Answer,  &c.  p.  24.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  255 

mayor,  was  delivered  to  the  jailer,  Hobson,  who  presently 
commanded  his  under-keeper,  Webb,  to  bring  him  home  to 
Newgate. 

Whereupon,  brother  Terrill  hearing  that,  said  to  the  jailer 
he  was  mistaken,  he  was  none  of  his  prisoner.  Who  replied, 
he  was  delivered  to  him  by  a  warrant.  To  which  brother 
Terrill  answered,  his  warrant  was  defective,  and  not  of  form, 
and  bid  the  jailer  read  it.  Who  accordingly  did,  and  seeing 
the  error,  for  anger  threw  the  warrant  under  his  feet,  and 
went  from  him  and  sat  down,  and  said  he  would  have  nothing 
to  do  with  it.  But  the  under-keeper  stood  by  the  said 
brother,  and  by  and  by  said  unto  one  that  stood  by  him,  he 
must  look  to  his  prisoner.  Whereupon  brother  Terrill  said  to 
him,  Do  you  look  upon  me  to  be  your  prisoner?  If  you  do, 
I  will  look  upon  you  to  be  my  keeper ;  and  do  you  keep  me, 
if  you  think  good  or  durst,  without  a  warrant.  The  under- 
keeper  said,  Why  did  the  jail-keeper  deliver  you  to  me? 
The  brother  said,  Do  you  ask  him.  Who  calling  to  him,  the 
keeper  came  not. 

Then,  some  time  after,  the  under-keeper  goes  to  the  upper, 
and  stays  there.  And  brother  Terrill  saw  they  were  contriv- 
ing another  warrant  to  fasten  him  in  prisou  ;  and  that  the 
mayor  calls  out  for  the  chief  constable  of  James's  ward,  who 
had  another  warrant  for  him.  Whereupon  brother  Terrill 
saw  that  Grod  by  his  providence  had  baffled  them ;  and  that 
if  he  stayed  there,  they  would  fasten  him  by  some  other 
way. 

He  was  casting  about  how  to  get  out  before  they  did  it,  and 
in  this  nick  of  time  another  providence  of  the  Lord  presented, 
that  the  serjeant  that  kept  the  door  went  from  it  to  the 
keeper,  and  whispered.  In  the  mean  season,  brother  Terrill 
spake  to  the  constables  that  kept  the  door  to  let  him  come 
forth ;  but  there  being  such  a  throng  they  could  not  open  it, 
but  helped  brother  Terrill  over  the  hatch,  and  so  he  got  down 


256  THE    RECORDS 

into  the  throng,  and  passed  through  the  midst  of  them.  And 
so  the  Lord  at  that  time  delivered  him  out  of  their  hands, 
when  they  had  taken  him,  by  a  strange  providence  that  their 
warrant  should  not  be  good,  through  a  mistake  therein. 

First  Lord's  day  after  our  pastor  Mr.  Hardcastle's  second 
imprisonment  for  six  months,  being  the  22nd  of  the  6th  month, 
August,  1675,  the  mayor,  Ralph  Ollive,  with  his  Serjeants 
and  some  constables,  and  the  bishop,  with  divers  of  his  crew 
and  men,  came  to  our  meeting-door.  Then  the  mayor  sends 
up  two  of  his  Serjeants  to  command  us  to  depart,  and  one  of 
them  makes  proclamation  by  O  yes !  three  times ;  then  com- 
mands us  in  the  name  of  the  king,  and  the  mayor  his  deputy- 
lieutenant,  to  depart.  But  when  we  understood  they  were 
coming,  the  brother  which  preached  ceased,  and  all  the  people 
began  to  sing  a  psalm ;  so  that  when  the  Serjeants  came  up, 
they  were  singing,  and  took  little  notice  of  what  they  said, 
and  did  not  depart.  Then  the  mayor  himself,  with  his 
attendants,  came  up  into  the  meeting,  and  commanded  the 
people  to  depart ;  but  they  all  kept  singing  (nobody  read  the 
psalm  to  them,  but  knowing  the  psalm  to  be  sung,  which  we 
still  named  in  the  beginning  of  the  meeting,  to  prepare  and 
turn  to  if  we  had  trouble),  every  one  looked  in  his  own  book 
and  so  sung,  and  kept  stops  one  with  another,  and  lifted  up 
their  voices  together ;  which  the  mayor  perceiving  knew  not 
what  to  do  more.  He  went  down  again.  The  bishop  stayed 
below  at  the  door ;  he  was  coming  up,  but  finding  the  first 
pair  of  stairs  somewhat  dark,  he  drew  back.  So  the  mayor 
and  the  bishop  departed  to  brother  Gifford's  meeting,  who 
came  forth  of  prison  a  few  days  before ;  and  finding  him  in 
exercise,  the  mayor  and  bishop  commanded  him  to  be  pulled 
down,  and  carried  away  to  prison.  Thus  that  morning's 
trouble  passed  over ;  in  the  afternoon  we  were  quiet.6 

"  [From  a  subsequent  passage  it  will  be  seen  that  the  pastor's  letter  was  usually 
read  in  the  afternoon.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  257 

First  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle  to  his  church. 

To  my  beloved  friends,  the  members  and  auditors  of  the  congre- 
gation meeting  in  Broadmead. 

August  18thJ 
Dearly  beloved  Friends, — The  Lord  has  been  pleased  to 
permit  the  wrath  of  the  adversary  to  break  out  so  far  upon  us,  as 
to  separate  us,  and  shut  me  up  in  prison  again,  and  out  of  the 
public  assembly  for  a  season.  Thus  divine  pleasure  thinks  fit  to 
deal  with  us.  Though  you  cannot  see  my  face,  nor  hear  my 
voice,  yet  I  can  write  epistles  to  you,  which  being  read  among  you, 
may,  through  the  blessing  of  God,  be  a  means  to  encourage,  in- 
struct, and  establish  you. 

Beloved,  my  imprisonment  preaches  louder  than  ever  I  did. 
You  serve  thousands  of  others  by  this  sacrifice  and  resignation  of 
yours,  and  stir  up  so  many  prayers  and  thanksgivings  for  you. 
You  engage  the  Spirit  of  God  more  among  you.  God  can  make 
this  providence  to  be  a  greater  ordinance  to  you,  to  all  intents  and 
purposes,  than  ever  you  had  any.  It  is  time  for  us  to  realize  the 
gospel,  and  to  consider  upon  what  terms  we  took  up  profession, 
and  what  the  cross  of  Christ  means.  We  have  had  a  long  time  of 
liberty,  and  have  enjoyed  our  ministers,  and  sermons,  and  ordi- 
nances, with  freedom  ;  and  we  grew  dull,  and  slothful,  and  sleepy. 
We  would  not  be  awake  with  our  privileges,  nor  sleep  without 
them.  But  when  you  see  your  ministers  torn  from  you,  before 
your  eyes,  by  ungodly  men,  this  may  be  an  awakening  sermon, 
and  make  you  remember. 

And,  my  brethren,  here  is  a  bright  side,  a  comfortable  side ; 
better  be  driven  and  pulled  from  our  duty,  than  draw  back  from 
it.  Let  us  not  be  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ.  Let  us  stand 
by  our  posts.  Let  not  the  adversary  reproach  us  that  we  dare  not 
stand  to  our  profession,  and  that  we  shall  be  weary  in  time,  and 
that  prisons  will  tame  us,  and  take  off  the  edge  and  briskness  of 
our  spirits.     Let  us  walk  answerably  to  our  profession.     I  often 

7  [Three  days  after  his  imprisonment.] 


258  THE    RECORDS 

think  of  Ezra  viii.  21—23.  Then  I  proclaimed  a  fast  there,  that 
we  might  afflict  ourselves  before  our  God,  to  seek  of  him  a  right 
way  for  us,  and  for  our  little  ones,  and  for  all  our  substance.  For 
I  was  ashamed  to  require  of  the  king  a  band  of  soldiers  arid  horse- 
men to  help  us  against  the  enemy  in  the  way :  because  we  had 
spoken  unto  the  king,  saying,  The  hand  of  our  God  is  upon  all 
them  for  good  that  seek  him  ;  but  his  power  and  his  wrath  is  against 
all  them  that  forsake  him.  So  we  fasted  and  besought  our  God  for 
this;  and  he  was  entreated  of  us. 

O  read  this  !  God  is  with  us  whilst  we  are  with  him.  He  gives 
new  strength  according  to  the  day.  It  is  not  holding  out  a  while, 
but  it  is  enduring  to  the  end.  The  blessing  is  to  him  that  over- 
cometh.  The  greatest  safety  lies  in  duty,  and  keeping  close  to  it. 
He  is  most  in  danger,  and  'runs  himself  into  it,  that  declines  duty 
for  fear  of  the  cross,  and  suffering  from  men.  It  has  been  our 
great  error  that  we  have  not  trusted  in  the  power  of  God.  We 
have  reasoned  about  the  worst  that  men  can  do,  but  have  not 
believed  the  best  that  God  can  do.  Sense  and  carnal  reason  must 
be  left  behind  in  the  things  of  God.  We  must  not  consult  with 
flesh  and  blood.  He  that  will  come  after  me,  let  him  deny  himself, 
and  take  up  his  cross,  and  follow  me.  This  is  gospel  sense.  Is 
preaching  and  meeting  together  a  duty  only  when  men  will  suffer 
us,  or  is  it  an  indispensable  duty  at  all  times,  when  men  forbid  and 
persecute  ?  The  gospel  makes  no  exception  or  suspension,  but 
rather  a  supposition  that  we  shall  be  persecuted,  and  hurried  before 
rulers ;  and  therefore  makes  provision,  not  for  our  hiding  or  with- 
drawing, but  for  a  mouth  and  wisdom,  and  says  it  shall  turn  to  a 
testimony  j  Matt.  x.  16 — 21.  See  and  read  it :  They  will  deliver 
you  up,  &c.  But  how  shall  they  meet  with  you,  if  you  be  not 
found  in  your  duty?  Be  wise  as  serpents;  and  beware  of  men. 
But  how  ?  And  for  what  ?  Why  that  they  do  not  fright  us  from 
our  work;  that  they  do  not  ensnare  and  entangle  us  in  our  con- 
sciences. If  to  beware  of  men  implied  keeping  out  of  the  way, 
how  should  the  next  word  be,  They  will  deliver  you  up,  and 
scourge  you,  &c.  ?  Religion  is  still  for  standing  and  going  for- 
ward.    There  is  no  armour  for  the  back. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  259 

I  think,  and  am  persuaded,  mj  second  imprisonment  will  be  a 
greater  advantage  to  yon  and  to  the  gospel,  than  the  first.  And 
for  my  own  particular,  I  find  my  spirit  much  quieted  and  com- 
posed; and  do  not  wish  one  step,  or  one  word  I  have  spoken, 
bating  human  frailty,  otherwise  than  it  is.  God  will  provide  for 
you,  and  God  will  take  care  of  me.  You  will  find,  in  due  time, 
that  the  gospel  has  lost  no  ground  by  this  dispensation.  But  you 
must  not  expect  to  have  great  matters,  and  never  exercise  faith  and 
patience.  You  must  believe  for  what  you  cannot  see  at  present ; 
and  patiently  endure  what  will,  in  a  little  time,  be  removed  with 
greater  advantage  than  if  the  cross  had  never  been  laid  on. 
Beloved,  it  is  now  high  time  for  us  to  be  in  good  earnest  in  reli- 
gion. If  the  credit  of  the  gospel  will  not  bear  the  weight  of  our 
outward  concerns,  our  families,  wives,  children,  and  estates,  how 
shall  we  venture  our  souls,  and  the  salvation  of  them  from  the 
devil,  hell,  and  death,  and  the  obtaining  everlasting  glory  for  them 
upon  it  ?  I  am  set  for  the  defence  of  the  gospel,  and  am  every 
moment  upon  service  for  you  and  the  gospel,  day  and  night.  If  I 
had  been  at  liberty  only  a  few  hours  in  a  week,  they  would  have 
been  taken  up  in  preaching  to  you.  And  if  I  had  withdrawn,  I 
know  not  what  blessing  I  could  have  promised  myself  upon  my 
labours  elsewhere,  in  consulting  my  own  ease  and  liberty,  and  left 
you,  my  charge,  for  fear  of  suffering,  and  made  myself  incapable 
of  serving  you,  suffering  with  or  for  you.  If  any  say  it  would  be 
but  for  a  little  time ;  I  answer — 

1 .  We  must  take  up  the  cross  presently,  duty  must  not  be  de- 
layed :  no,  not  a  moment,  when  there  is  opportunity. 

2.  Is  not  a  season  of  suffering  righteously  to  be  prized  iis  much 
or  more  than  a  season  of  grace  ? 

3.  Do  we  know  that  God  will  ever  honour  us  with  such  an 
opportunity,  if  we  neglected  this  ? 

4.  Can  we  tell  how  many  thousands  are  encouraged  by  our 
standing  now,  and  who  would  have  been  troubled  if  we  had  given 
way  but  one  day  ?    And, 

5.  Lastly,  who  knows  that  he  shall  live  six  weeks,  or  one  week, 
or  one  day  ?     And  shall  we  not  do  all  we  can  for  Christ  ?  '  Shall 

■8  2 


260  THE    RECORDS 

we  neglect  a  present  season  of  service,  upon  a  supposition  of  serv- 
ing him  six  weeks  hence  ?  Is  this  like  gospel  ?  See  James  iv. 
13 — 15.  To  day  we  will  keep  our  liberty,  and  enjoy  our  ease ; 
and  to-morrow,  when  persecution  is  over,  we  will  worship  and 
preach  ?  Who  knows  what  good  six  weeks'  imprisonment  may 
do?  and  what  the  power  of  God  can  do,  to  work  liberty  by 
means  of  imprisonment,  and  convince  an  ungodly  generation,  that 
it  is  not  interest  and  faction  that  makes  us  separate  and  meet 
together,  but  pure  conscience  ?  Suffering  leaves  a  testimdry  in 
their  conscience,  when  shrinking  might  harden  them  in  their 
wickedness,  and  draw  out  their  rage  more.  I  am  called,  by  virtue 
of  my  office  and  place,  to  stand.  My  circumstances  differ  from 
others.  My  dearly  beloved  friends,  brethren,  sisters,  and  hearers  ! 
my  heart  is  enlarged  towards  you.  I  have  no  greater  joy  than  to 
serve  you  in  the  most  effectual  way.  I  am  sure  I  am  not  now 
out  of  God's  way,  and  there  you  would  have  me  to  be.  The 
Lord  sanctify  this  present  dispensation  to  us  all,  and  help  us  to 
find  out  and  fight  against  these  corruptions  that  provoke  the  Lord 
thus  to  contend  with  us.  For  though  men  deal  unjustly  by  us, 
and  our  sufferings,  with  respect  to  them,  are  for  righteousness' 
sake :  yet,  with  relation  to  God,  we  must  acknowledge  ourselves 
guilty,  guilty ;  and  that  he  has  punished  us  less  than  our  iniqui- 
ties have  deserved.  I  know  you  pray  for  me ;  we  may  meet  at 
the  throne  of  grace  in  spite  of  all  opposition.  Pray  for  your  ene- 
mies as  the  gospel  requires.  Prepare  for  further  trials.  Pray 
for  the  Spirit  to  bring  things  to  your  remembrance  that  you  have 
heard,  and  to  make  you  more  fruitful  in  every  good  work  to  the 
praise  of  God.  Get  the  love  of  the  world  more  out  of  your 
hearts,  and  the  love  of  God  more  into  your  hearts ;  and  this  will 
make  you  willing  to  part  with  everything  rather  than  part  with 
him,  his  name,  profession,  word,  or  worship.  The  Lord  be  with 
you,  and  give  us  a  comfortable  meeting  again  in  the  public  assem- 
bly, to  tell  of  all  his  wondrous  works.  You  are  dear  to  your 
willing  servant,  for  Christ's  sake, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  261 

The  next  day  it  was  said,  by  one  of  the  times,  or  True  Hearts, 
so  called,8  that  the  bishop  and  witnesses  with  him,  were  rode 
away  to  the  Lord  Herbert's,  who  was  the  lord-lieutenant  of 
this  county,  to  get  a  troop  of  horse  to  suppress  the  meetings ; 
who  coming  home,  and  his  expectation,  as  some  think,  not 
answered,  he  went  away  again  the  same  week,  privately,  for 
London,  to  the  king's  court,  for  to  endeavour  to  get  some  aid 
or  authority  to  suppress  us.9 

Tire  second  Lord's  day  after  our  pastor's  imprisonment  the 
second  time,  being  the  29th  of  the  6th  month,  1675,  we  had 
peace,  the  bishop  being  forth  of  town.  And  it  was  very 
strange  that  Hellier  was  so  quiet ;  but  the  week  following,  he 
said,  he  was  troubled  in  his  conscience  for  being  then  quiet. 

Second  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle  to  his  church.1 

When  we  do  as  God  bids  us,  and  go  the  errands 

he  sends  us,  we  shall  neither  lack  nor  lose  anything  that  is  good 
for  us.  We  speak  much  of  faith,  and  hope,  and  patience,  and 
commend  them,  but  care  not  to  have  occasion  to  make  use  of  them 
ourselves.  What  cause  have  we  to  complain  of  our  weakness  and 
comings  short  of  the  glory  of  God,  for  which  we  were  created, 
redeemed,  and  preserved !  We  must  follow  Christ  in  the  way 
that  he  chooses,  and  not  in  the  way  that  we  choose  for  ourselves. 
Wearisome  sabbaths,  and  troublesome  meetings  are  appointed ; 

8  ["  The  first  notice  of  that  title  was  with  the  right  reverend  father  in  God, 
from  a  letter  written  by  this  informer  the  lord  bishop,  in  the  preventing  of 
(Hellier)  to  a  valiant  captain  and  vehe-  these  growing  mischiefs  ; — we  have  rea- 
ment  adversary  to  the  dissenters,  and  son  to  rejoice  and  bless  God  for  the 
ordered  to  be  communicated  to  others  of  great  care  and  vigilance  of  so  good  and 
the  gang,  who  are  since  some  of  the  faithful  a  shepherd,  as  his  lordship  is, 
jurors  by  the  name  of  True  Hearts." —  over  this  part  of  his  flock,  and  for  his 
A  Sober  Answer  to  an  Address  of  the  indefatigable  cares  and  endeavours  to 
Grand  Jurors,  &c,  p.  6,  4to,  1675.]  secure  it  from  being  invaded  and  de- 

9  ["  We  are  heartily  glad,"  say  the  voured."] — Terrill's  M.S. 

grand  jurors,  "  to   see  the   ready   and  l  [A  small  portion  at  the  commence- 

active    concurrence    of  your   worships       ment  is  lost.] 


262  THE    RECORDS 

separations  and  confinements  attend  and  abide  us.  What  is  the 
reason  of  all  this  ?  Are  there  not  causes  why  ?  Yes,  too  many 
and  too  good;  nay,  too  bad. 

1.  Have  not  our  inward  distractions  and  vanity  of  mind,  in 
duties  and  solemn  worship,  brought  about  outward  disturbances  ? 
Our  distractions  offend  and  grieve  God,  more  than  our  enemies' 
disturbances  molest  and  perplex. 

2.  Did  we  mix  faith  with  the  word  ?  And  did  we  come  with 
that  awe,  and  seriousness,  and  reverence  of  spirit,  as  became  the 
holy  ordinances  of  the  great  God  ?  And  are  not  we  helped  to 
guess  at  this  as  one  cause,  by  that  rudeness,  profaneness,  blas- 
phemy, uncomely  behaviour,  which  the  adversary  expresses  in  our 
solemn  meetings  and  religious  worshippings  ?  Read  Lament,  ii. 
6,  7,  17;  i.  7,  8;  iv.  18,  19;  v.  14—21. 

3.  And  have  we  not  been  too  guilty  of  formality  and  hypocrisy 
in  our  profession  and  worship  ?  And  are  not  our  enemies  per- 
mitted to  overthrow  our  forms  and  tables,  and  spoil  the  face  and 
formality  of  our  worship,  and  to  call  us  a  company  of  hypocrites 
and  dissemblers  ?     And, 

4.  Have  [we]  rejoiced  in  this  day  that  the  Lord  hath  made,  and 
been  glad  in  it,  and  celebrated  the  name  of  God  and  Christ,  for 
redemption  and  the  resurrection  ?  Or  has  it  not  been  to  us  as  an 
ordinary  day,  another  day,  a  common  day,  wherein  little  exulting 
or  joy  has  been  discovered  ?  Nay,  rather,  has  it  not  been  a  bur- 
den to  us,  and  the  performances  of  it  tedious  and  troublesome  ? 
And  is  it  not  just,  that  now  our  persecutors  should  burden  us,  and 
load  us,  and  weary  us,  in  our  service  and  worship,  and  make  it 
very  uncomfortable,  unedifying,  and  unprofitable  ?     And, 

5.  Whilst  we  enjoyed  days,  and  months,  and  years  of  plenty, 
peace,  prosperity,  and  liberty,  we  had  not  a  sense,  sympathy, 
fellow-feeling  of  the  miseries,  distractions,  distresses,  and  persecu- 
tions that  were  upon  many  in  several  places  of  the  nation.  And 
in  other  places,  what  banishment,  confiscations,  spoiling  of  goods, 
and  insolences,  have  many  precious  souls  undergone  in  these 
nations  !  and  we  never  heard  of  them,  or  never  inquired  after 
them,  or  have   not  been   affected   with  them,  as  became  fellow- 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  263 

members  or  countrymen;  and  now  our  condition  is  become  an 
object  of  pity  to  others.  See  Lam.  iv.  11,  12.  Who  would  have 
thought  that  the  late  peaceable  state  of  the  city  of  Bristol  would 
have  been  disturbed  by  so  much  desolating  work  ?     Nay, 

6th,  and  lastly,  Hath  our  love  one  to  another,  among  ourselves, 
been  so  warm  and  sincere,  esteeming  one  another,  preferring  one 
another,  forbearing  and  forgiving  one  another,  so  as  to  shut  out 
jealousies,  prejudices,  surmisings,  whisperings,  backbitings,  and 
dissimulations  ?  Then  should  we  not  have  been  exposed  to  the 
reproaches,  speeches,  railings,  and  unjust  reflections  of  unreason- 
able and  ungodly  men ;  and  not  have  come  within  the  hearing  of 
so  much  bad  language,  as  we  have  found  in  our  public  meeting 
places,  from  those  that  hate  us  and  persecute  us.  You  will  say, 
this  is  all  a  sad  story.  Is  there  no  comfortable  side  to  be  seen  ? 
Is  there  no  hope  ? 

Yes,  there  is.  1st.  There  is  hope  that  we  will  repent,  and 
mourn  over  all  our  transgressions,  and  cry  to  God  for  mercy  and 
pardon. 

2ndly.  There  is  hope  that  God  will  hear  us,  and  pardon  us,  and 
accept  of  us. 

3dly.  There  is  hope  that  God  will  put  an  end  to  these  troubles' 
and  let  us  enjoy  peaceable  meetings,  and  behold  our  teachers 
again. 

4th.  There  is  hope  from  the  consideration  of  the  good  presence, 
and  gracious  supports,  we  have  had  from  our  God :  that  degree 
of  faithfulness  and  patience  he  has  given  us  ;  that  the  gospel  hath 
not  lost  but  got  much  ground;  and  that  the  opposition,  as  it 
has  been  sinful  and  groundless,  so  has  it  been  successless  and 
fruitless. 

5th.  There  is  hope  from  the  survey  of  the  benefit  and  advantage 
which  hath  accrued  to  many  in  the  nation,  by  encouraging  them 
to  stand  and  patiently  suffer  in  the  good  ways  of  God,  rather  than 
decline  and  draw  back.  We  are  not  made  for  ourselves,  and  to 
serve  ourselves  only ;  the  more  glory  God  gets  by  us,  the  more 
honour  he  will  put  upon  us,  and  magnify  our  salvation.     And, 

6th.  There  is  hope,  and  great  ground  of  comfort,  in  the  view 


264  THE    RECORDS 

and  foresight  of  the  great  good  that  is  in  the  womb  of  this  dispen- 
sation, and  which  will  shortly  appear.  It  is  now  a  winter  season  ; 
the  snow  is  upon  the  ground ;  there  will  be  a  spring,  the  singing 
of  birds  will  come.  It  is  now  a  seed  time  ;  the  harvest  will  come. 
We  are  sowing  for  posterity ;  the  generation  coming  on  will  have 
the  good  fruit  of  this  present  persecution.  Many  will  be  con- 
vinced by  it,  and  many  confirmed  and  edified.  This  cloud  will 
quickly  be  blown  over.  The  more  they  were  oppressed,  the  more 
they  grew.  When  opportunities  shall  come  to  be  peaceable,  many 
will  flock  to  them,  as  doves  to  the  windows,  that  have  either  now 
been  frightened,  or  otherwise  would  never  have  come  to  a  meeting; 
but  will  then,  either  out  of  curiosity  or  conscience,  come  to  see 
what  is  done  there,  and  fall  in  love  with  that  which  they  have  seen 
so  much  opposed  by  the  wicked,  with  so  little  ground  and  cause, 
and  so  faithfully  and  patiently  stood  by  those  whom  they  have 
causelessly  reproached,  slandered,  and  traduced.  Comfort  one 
another  with  these  and  such  like  words.  And  let  him  evermore  be 
remembered  by  you,  who  studies  nothing  more  than  your  good  ; 
and  can  rejoice  in  his  present  confinement,  that  the  gospel  and  you 
may  gain  any  advantage ;  and  remains,  wherever  he  remains, 
Yours,  for  Christ's  sake, 

From  Newgate,  Thomas  Hardcastle. 

Close  prisoner. 

The  fifth  day  of  the  said  week,  being  the  2nd  of  Sept.  1675, 
on  our  week  day  meeting,  Hellier  brings  constables  to  the 
meeting,  above  two  hours  before  the  time  :  and  so  he  was 
befooled,  for  there  was  none  there  but  an  old  woman,  clean- 
ing the  room. 

But  afterwards,  when  the  meeting  was  just  going  to  begin, 
Hellier  and  his  man  came ;  and  it  was  judged  that  he  was  half- 
drunk  :  and  there  he  sits  down,  and  then  begins  to  propose 
ensnaring  questions  to  one  and  another;  and  jeered  some,  and 
abused  others.  Especially,  he  abused  old  Mr.  Holwey,  called 
him  a  decimator  and  a  sequestrator,  and  many  other  oppro- 


OF    A   CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  265 

brious  expressions,  and  sent  his  man  for  a  constable.  And 
there  he  stayed  all  the  time,  that  we  could  have  no  exercise 
at  all. 

The  third  Lord's  day  of  our  pastor's  second  imprisonment, 
being  fifth  of  7th  month,  1675,  Hellier  came  up  into  our  meet- 
ing, with  his  man  and  mayor's  Serjeants,  in  the  morning;  and 
disturbed  us  about  six  times  this  day,  morning  and  afternoon. 
And  at  Mr.  Weeks's  meeting  [they  were]  very  troublesome ; 
they  sent  some  to  prison  when  the  mayor  came.  But  before 
the  mayor  came  to  our  meeting,  our  time  was  over,  and  we 
had  done  and  were  just  gone. 

The  third  letter  from  Mr.  Hardcastle  to  his  church. 

[Newgate,  Sept.  3,  1675.] 
Beloved  Friends, — It  is  a  mercy  that  I  can,  in  any  way,  reach 
your  ears ;  but  a  greater,  if  the  Lord  will  every  way  reach  your 
hearts.  God  can  make  an  edifying  sermon  from  any  subject ;  no 
matter  where  he  takes  his  text,  if  he  will  preach  from  it  himself. 
A  sharp  providence,  and  a  short  epistle,  shall  convince,  confirm, 
and  comfort,  if  the  Lord  speak  the  word,  and  say  Amen  to  it. 
The  residue  of  the  Spirit  is  with  him ;  it  is  he  that  teacheth  to 
profit,  and  ofttimes  works  most  powerfully  by  seemingly  simple 
and  weak  means.  Be  of  good  courage ;  whatever  you  lose  for 
God,  you  will  find  in  God.  I  am  here  a  while  for  yours  and  the 
gospel's  sake  and  service.  Watchmen  must  endure  hardship  :  the 
heat  of  the  day,  and  the  cool  of  the  night.  We  read,  Joshua  iii., 
that  the  priests'  feet  were  to  stand  in  the  waters  of  Jordan,  when 
they  bore  the  ark.  Ministers  and  watchmen  must  meet  with  the 
waters  of  affliction,  and  stand  in  them,  and  see  to  the  safety  of  the 
whole,  with  the  hazard  of  themselves.  See  2  Cor.  xii.  15.  Paul 
is  willing  not  only  to  spend,  to  pray,  and  preach,  and  write,  but 
be  spent  too — his  spirits,  his  strength,  his  life.  Christ  forbore 
meat  and  drink  to  preach,  and  Paul  his  sleep ;  and  so  must  we 
deny  our  liberty,  when  God  calls  for  it,  and  take  up  the  cross 
of  imprisonment,  when  it  directly  lies   in   our  way  :    especially 


266  THE    RECORDS 

believing  that  of  Phil.  i.  12,  &c.  I  have  read  of  one  Evenius,  a 
shepherd,  that  had  the  sheep  of  a  city  committed  to  him ;  through 
his  negligence  a  wolf  entered,  and  devoured  sixty  of  them ;  upon 
this  he  was  condemned,  and  lost  his  eyes.  The  Lord  may  suffer 
wicked  men  and  persecutors  to  prevail  so  far  as  to  drive  us  from 
our  standing,  but  they  can  never  drive  us  from  our  stedfastness. 
You  are  not  on  the  losing,  but  the  gaining  and  growing  hand ; 
and  God  will  make  you  glad  according  to  the  days  wherein  he  has 
afflicted  you,  and  the  months  wherein  you  have  seen  evil.  The 
primitive  Christians  called  their  persecutions,  by  the  heathen 
emperors,  clouds,  that  would  be  quickly  and  speedily  blown  over. 
Be  not  weary  of  well-doing  and  well-suffering.  Lose  not  the 
things  ye  have  wrought  and  endured,  but  receive  a  full  reward. 
Sometimes,  indeed,  a  saint  of  God  may  be  weary  in  his  work,  but 
he  is  never  weary  of  his  work.  It  is  a  good  observation  of  an 
eminent  minister,  "  Though  a  Christian  does  not  love  what  he 
bears,  yet  he  loves  to  bear ;  though,"  says  he,  "  I  love  not  what  I 
suffer,  yet  I  love  to  suffer,  and  it  is  my  duty  when  the  Lord  calls 
to  it.  To  suffer,  is  the  patience  of  necessity ;  to  suffer  cheerfully, 
is  the  patience  of  grace  and  duty." 

Jesus  Christ  can  give  us  calm  and  composed  sabbaths  when  he 
pleases,  and  he  will  do  it  when  it  shall  be  good  for  us,  and  we  fit 
for  them.  When  you  cannot  have  comfortable  communion 
together  in  public,  but  are  interrupted,  you  may  commune  with 
your  own  hearts,  upon  your  beds,  and  be  still.  Is  not  the  Lord 
now  pointing  us  to  heart  work?  Have  we  not  been  too  much 
strangers  at  home  ?  Have  we  not  rested  in,  and  trusted  on,  our 
ordinances  and  privileges,  our  communion  sermons  and  assemblies, 
when  we  should  have  been  trying  ourselves,  examining  our  own 
hearts,  and  turning  to  the  Lord  more  unfeignedly  ?  Does  not  the 
Lord  bespeak  us,  as  it  were  after  this  manner?  — Do  you  bear  tes- 
timonies faithfully  for  me  in  public,  and  my  spirit  shall  witness  to 
you,  and  with  you,  and  for  you  in  private.  Is  not  the  Lord  pro- 
moting holy  conference,  that  profitable  ordinance  ?  See  Malachi 
iii.  16. 

In  the  worst  times  of  all,  when  Christ  was  in  the  grave,  and  the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  267 

disciples  fled,  two  of  them,  as  they  walked  along,  talked  together 
of  all  the  things  which  had  happened.  And  it  came  to  pass,  that, 
while  they  communed  together  and  reasoned,  Jesus  himself  drew 
near,  and  icent  with  them.  [Luke  xxiv.  15.]  You  may  talk 
with  your  own  hearts,  and  discourse  with  one  another,  and 
have  Christ's  company,  and  nobody  to  disturb  you.  Sin,  indeed, 
is  a  disturber:  an  unbelieving,  dead,  carnal,  worldly  frame  of 
spirit,  is  perplexing ;  but  resolve  that  your  enemies  within 
shall  have  no  rest,  whilst  your  enemies  without  let  you  have  none. 
Be  found  diligent  accusers  of  yourselves  before  God,  and  constant 
informers  against  yourselves,  in  the  presence  of  the  great  Lord. 
Be  more  angry  at  your  corruption,  than  others  are  at  your  profes- 
sion. And  wonder  at  the  patience  and  long  suffering  of  God,  that 
you  have  any  intermitting  seasons  :  that  the  fury  of  the  adversary 
is  let  loose  no  more:  that  the  devils  themselves  do  not  appear 
amongst  you  in  their  own  shapes,  but  only  in  the  shapes  of  weak, 
wretched,  and  successless  men,  whom  the  Lord  is  pleased  to  hook 
and  bridle;  and  still,  with  Sennacherib,  turns  them  back  by  the 
way  which  they  came. 

You  should  now  take  more  opportunities  of  preaching  to  your 
own  hearts,  and  to  each  other ;  and  let  me  add  this,  if  you  cannot 
hear  God  speak  to  you  so  freely  as  formerly  in  preaching,  do  you 
speak  the  more  freely  to  him  by  prayer.  By  pouring  out  your 
souls  before  him,  you  will  draw  and  suck  in  strength,  and  conso- 
lation, and  direction.  In  the  Acts  iv.  23,  &c,  when  the  apostles 
were  disturbed,  and  prevented  preaching,  they  got  together  and 
fell  a  praying,  until  they  made  the  place  shake  again  ;  and  it  is 
very  likely,  if  the  truth  could  have  been  known,  they  made  the 
chief  priests'  and  elders'  hearts  tremble  again.  Faithful  fervent 
prayer  is  a  most  deadly,  dreadful,  frightful  thing  to  wicked  men 
and  persecutors.  It  was  a  home  piece  of  revenge,  that  of  John's 
disciples,  Matt.  xiv.  12 ;  "  And  the  disciples  of  John  came,  and  took 
up  his  body,  and  buried  it,  and  went  and  told  Jesus.""  They  could 
not  have  done  them  a  greater  mischief,  than  to  inform  Christ 
Jesus  of  them,  and  acquaint  him  with  what  they  had  done.  Christ 
forbids  the   offending  of  little  ones,  because  their  angels  always 


268  THE    RECORDS 

behold  the  face  of  God ;  and  if  a  little  one  cry,  presently  the  angel 
is  ready  to  be  despatched  for  rescue  and  relief.  O  cry, — cry, — 
cry ;  pray  and  believe,  and  pray  ;  and  the  more  you  feel,  pray  the 
harder  ;  who  knows  what  one  universal  groan  and  cry  might  do  ? 
But  I  will  not  be  tedious  to  you.  I  have  only  three  words  to  add 
at  present : — 

1.  Love  your  heavenly  Father  more  : 

2.  Love  your  fellow-members  and  brethren  more  : 

3.  Love  your  adversaries  more  : 

And  so  you  fulfil  the  gospel  of  Christ.  Take  heed  of  fretfulness, 
and  personal  prejudices  against  them,  as  they  are  your  enemies, 
but  as  they  are  God's  enemies — in  the  spirit  and  fear  of  God, 
when  you  get  them  on  plain  gospel  ground  :  then,  Cursed  be  their 
anger,  for  it  was  fierce  ;  and  their  wrath,  for  it  was  cruel.  [Gen. 
xlix.  7.] 

Forget  not  me  in  every  prayer  and  supplication  of  yours  to  the 
Father  of  mercies  :  that  he  would  sanctify  my  present  confinement 
to  myself,  and  bless  it  to  you  and  to  many. 

I  am  yours  for  Christ's  sakey 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 

The  fourth  Lord's  day  of  our  pastor's  second  imprisonment, 
being  twelfth  of  7th  month,  1675,  in  the  morning,  the  chief 
constable  of  James's  ward,  being  commanded,  came  up  into 
our  meeting  in  the  morning,  with  some  other  of  the  consta- 
bles, with  a  warrant  in  his  hand,  and  commanded  us,  in  the 
king's  name,  to  depart ;  but  the  people  kept  singing,  and  re- 
garded not  what  they  said.  Whereupon  the  said  constables 
went  away,  and  meeting  with  Hellier  at  the  door,  he  would 
have  had  them  go  up  again  into  our  meeting :  but  they  would 
not.  And  so  Hellier  came  not  up,  but  went  to  Mr.  Weeks's 
meeting,  and  they  had  little  rest  all  that  morning ;  but  in  the 
afternoon  all  our  meetings  were  quiet.  Praise  be  to  the 
Lord  ! 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  269 

Fourth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle  to  his  church. 

[Newgate,  Sept.  8,  1675.] 
Beloved  Friends, — Though  I  am  absent  from  you,  yet  I  hear 
of  your  affairs  :  that  ye  stand  fast  in  one  spirit,  with  one  mind 
striving  together  for  the  faith  of  the  gospel.  God  is  with  us ;  and 
to  them  that  have  no  might  he  increaseth  strength.  Can  we  not 
watch  with  the  Lord  Jesus  one  hour  ?  Our  evil  hearts  of  unbelief 
have  more  struck  at  the  honour  of  our  Master,  than  ever  the  per- 
secution of  ungodly  men  struck  at  our  good ;  for  no  good  can  come 
of  an  evil  heart,  but  abundance  of  good  may  come  to  us  by  means 
of  evil  men.  Well  then,  my  brethren,  let  us  come  to  this  conclu- 
sion, that  we  are  very  much  behind  hand  with  God,  and  be  glad 
that  God  will  give  us  any  opportunity  of  service,  or  bearing  testi- 
mony for  him.  But  oh !  what  a  bountiful  Master  have  we,  that, 
rewards  us  for  doing  our  duty.  Our  heavenly  Father  is  a  little 
angry  with  us  :  indeed,  we  have  not  carried  it  like  obedient 
children.  Loth  he  is  to  turn  us  out  of  doors  ;  he  seems  to  have 
a  greater  mind  to  whip  the  money-changers  than  turn  us  out  of  the 
temple.  His  house  will  be  a  house  of  prayer,  when  the  thieves 
shall  retreat  into  their  dens.  Let  us  then  fall  in  with  [one]  who  is 
so  unwilling  to  fall  out  with  us ;  and  for  that  purpose,  let  us  fall 
out  with  our  evil  nature,  corrupt  affections,  and  beloved  sins,  which 
have  been  the  cause  of  these  confusions  and  disturbances.  Let 
them  not  live  one  quiet  quarter  of  an  hour  in  our  hearts,  that  will 
not  let  us  live  one  quiet  hour  in  our  meeting. 

But  what  shall  we  say  ?  Our  Father  corrects  us  lovingly  and 
gently,  he  takes  us  on  his  knee  and  corrects  us,  he  smiles  whilst  he 
is  striking,  and  makes  us  kiss  the  rod,  and  embrace  the  cross,  and 
brings  us  to  our  knees.  All  will  be  well,  if  we  can  but  keep  in 
that  posture;  there  is  no  flying  from  him  but  by  flying  to  him. 
If  we  accept  the  punishment  of  our  iniquities,  our  deliverance  will 
be  hastened.  We  yet  live,  and  have  lost  no  ground.  Our  hope, 
and  faith,  and  patience,  have  as  good  ground  to  stand  upon  as  ever 
they   had.     We    cannot   bear   the    smallest   burden  in   our  own 


270  THE    RECORDS 

strength ;  but  our  God  can  and  will  keep  us  to  bear  the  greatest 
he  shall  lay  upon  us.  Let  us  comfort  ourselves  with  these  words. 
You  see  the  world  cannot  comfort  us  :  then  the  word  and  promise 
must.     As  George  Withers  says : — 


*  Have  we  not  yet  a  God,  and  is  not  he 
A  refuge,  when  all  others  failing  be  ? 
His  trust  was  never  placed  on  him  alone, 
If  him  he  cannot  trust,  when  all  is  gone. 
And  be  ye  sure,  that  ere  from  hence  ye  go, 
He  will  make  proof  whether  it  be  so  or  no." 


The  presence  of  Jesus  Christ  among  his  disciples  was  more  com- 
fortable than  the  presence  of  any  gospel  minister  to  his  congrega- 
tion ;  and  yet,  though  sorrow  had  filled  their  hearts  because  of  his 
departure,  he  tells  them  plainly,  that  it  was  expedient  for  them 
that  he  should  go  away.  Strange  expediency  !  that  he  whom  they 
loved  as  their  lives,  and  whose  presence,  and  company,  and  preach- 
ing, they  would  have  preserved  even  with  the  loss  of  their  lives, 
and  yet  it  should  be  expedient  that  he  went  away  !  If  I  go  not 
away,  says  he,  the  Comforter  will  not  come.  Now,  my  beloved 
friends,  the  Comforter  is  with  you,  and  the  Comforter  is  with  me ; 
and  if  I  had  not  gone  away  in  the  way  I  did,  the  Comforter  might 
not  have  stayed  either  with  you  or  me.  The  preaching  of  the 
gospel  is  the  ordinance  of  Christ,  and  so  is  the  imprisonment  of  the 
preachers  of  the  gospel :  but  I  never  knew  that  forbearing  to 
preach,  for  fear  of  a  prison,  did  ever  convince  or  establish  any  one. 
Fear  keeps  company  with  the  pit  and  the  snare ;  and  they  are 
proper  for  none  but  the  fearful  and  unbelieving,  whose  place  is 
ordained  where  neither  I  nor  you  would  willingly  come,  Better 
go  to  Newgate  with  faith,  than  to  hell  with  fear.  Yet  I  would  not 
have  you  of  the  persuasion,  that  those  who  have  not  gone  in  the 
path  I  have  are  judged  by  me.  I  hope  I  have  learned,  and  some- 
times have  taught  you,  that  the  circumstances  and  apprehensions 
of  persons  may  differ.  I  know  the  way  that  I  take,  and  another 
man  may  know  the  way  that  he  takes.  The  devil  shall  cast  some 
of  you  into  prison  [Rev.  ii.  10]  ;  not  all  of  you.   If  Satan  be  angry 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  271 

with  you  and  me,  I  can  be  glad  with  it,  provided  God  be  less 
angry  with  us.  It  is  a  small  matter  to  be  persecuted  by  sinners, 
or  to  be  judged  by  others  ;  our  judgment  remains  with  the  Lord. 
And  can  you  think,  my  dear  friends,  that  the  eternal  Almighty 
God  is  angry  with  us  the  more,  because  we  have  trusted  his  power 
the  more,  and  ventured  ourselves  upon  him  ?  Can  we  think  that 
he  will  leave  us  without  a  blessing,  because  we  will  not  subject  our 
public  worship  and  ministry  to  the  appearance  of  men,  and  power 
of  magistrates,  in  the  sinful  execution  of  their  office?  No,  no. 
God  will  never  take  this  amiss  from  you,  nor  blame  you  for  it. 
Did  he  ever  blame  any  one  that  trusted  in  him,  in  the  way  of  his 
duties  ?  Where  are  the  promises  ?  What  signifies  the  power  of 
God  ?  When  is  it  to  be  made  use  of  ?  Blot  out  these  texts,  or 
else  read  them  over,  and  believe  them  :  Isaiah  xliii.  1 — 5  ;  Isaiah 
li.  12—15;  Lukexii.  4— 7. 

God  will  bless  the  dispensation  to  further  good  than  yet  we  see, 
though  already  we  see  some  fruit  of  it.  Would  you  have  me  out 
of  prison  (where  I  stand  in  the  presence  and  power  of  God,  above 
all  the  powers  on  earth)  to  veil  myself,  and  preaching  of  the  ever- 
lasting gospel,  to  the  appearance  of  a  wretched  and  wicked  perse- 
cutor ?  This  would  not  tend  to  edification.  God  would  never 
bless  such  shifting  and  distrusting,  though  I  could  preach  like  an 
angel.  But  I  have  done  with  this.  I  am  preaching  as  God  hath 
ordered  me  to  preach,  and  God  will  bless  it ;  and  if  I  were  preach- 
ing upon  other  terms,  I  might  preach  upon  my  own  head,  and  that 
I  never  loved  in  all  my  life. 

But  what  shall  we  gain  by  all  these  things  : — 

1.  Are  we  more  humbled  ? 

2.  Do  we  prize  the  word  more  ? 

3.  Do  we  beg  the  Spirit  more  ? 

4.  Do  we  mourn  in  secret  more  ? 

5.  Do  we  believe  more  ? 

6.  Do  we  repent  more  ? 

7.  Do  we  love  the  world  less  ? 

8.  Do  we  mind  the  duties  of  our  families,  relations,  and  callings 
more? 


OF  A  CHURCH  OF  CHRIST.  -  "  : 

Tie  Lordcho  will  be  *  rrfmge  to  his  people,  «  refwge  is  times  of 
tromUt;  aad  they  thmt  kmow  ku  mmme  will  pmt  thar  twmst  in 
him:   for  be  newer  forsaketh  idiem  that  seek   him.     IPs.  ix. 


Fifth  Utter  tf  Mr 

Sept,  13  (Monday),  1675. 
for  my  dearly  beloTed,  die  ehareh  of  Christ, 


Deiut  Beloved, — Who  know?  what  m  day  nay  bring  fords  1 
Wl>oknow^  what  a  ^^yinaytamg  forth?  Coafci  we  fist  and 
pray  onto  God,  much  good  might  be  done.      There  are  two 

zii:    ~.v_:   £11: u:    .:_  .  :;:r   -fis^-f?    ::'   ;  ;_:    ::-.:-:r;    •:.  i 
2nl  ;£r  ~fss-i:-fs  ::"  :i:  ilvTr> 

._;  :.«  zi~:£  i^:r  ;-.?  f~f:  :£f-  :-.iz  :  If:  m?  r.:: 
Lf"  ::::  j::i.::i?r^?.  -v.v ;:".::  :..:-.: 

If".    - :■:■-:   :'--::    ±:i   -::::_. ?. 

ie  blow  in  season  may  do  much  good.  I: 
.  .::-ff  ::  Azi:..ri.  ":::"  £f  z'iS.  :  •::.  :'i~  "?:•:  .'./r-  — if..  :£f~  ~ f:r 
rV'n:  :•,::!  -f^:y  :::  :z-:  ;:in:f7  n.1  r?-vr;  :-.-  :if  L::-i  '~i£  iy- 
pomted  them.  It  will  be  oar  virtue,  wisdom,  and  honoar,  by 
:".  :::.:.:'  :.r.l  Zimz:  rr.-.-r:.  : :  :11"  .:-•--  :::--.  :  «-l  _Vziilrk::.fs 
now  they  grow  faint  and  weary ;  and  they  fear  not  God,  Deal.  ht. 
17,1  bo  know?  what  one  joint  cry  and  groan  may  do 

(I  wish  it  were  more  joined)  in  this  critical  distressing  season  I  I 
beseech  yon  fell  on,  and  lor  your  word  yoa  bare  it  in  two  places; 
I  ■•■fSr-f-:£  y::.  ::  ::-.:   : ;  :£f~.  :.::.:   :•..•,:.   ::..".    ifl::«f:-L:f>  :::  ;.-: 

2  Chron.  xm.  4  10  21 :  2  Carom,  xx.  5  t :  39. 


*  (TVngjk  ala««i  bane,  lb.      «n  thai 


274  THE    RECORDS 

It  is  a  spiritual  warfare,  and  the  battle  is  not  ours,  but  God's. 
The  cause  is  his  ;  his  name  is  concerned.  Say  unto  him,  We  are 
called  by  thy  name,  leave  us  not ;  and,  What  wilt  thou  do  unto  thy 
great  name  ?  Though  our  iniquities  testify  against  us,  do  thou  it 
for  thy  name's  sake  [Jer.  xiv.  9,  Jos.  vii.  9,  Jer.  xiv.  7].  But 
take  these  few  directions  for  the  management  of  your  prayers  : — 

1.  Pray  holily.  If  we  keep  sin,  we  cannot  come  with  confi- 
dence to  the  throne  of  grace.  If  we  regard  iniquity  in  our  hearts, 
the  Lord  will  not  hear  our  prayers  [Ps.  lxvi.  18]. 

2.  Pray  fervently.  As  we  must  serve  the  Lord  with  all  our 
might,  &c,  so  we  must  seek  the  Lord.  I  need  not  enlarge  on 
these  things,  a  few  hints  will  serve  you. 

3.  Pray  believingly.  Let  not  your  inward  and  secret  fears 
check  and  control  the  expressions  of  your  lips. 

4.  Pray  waitingly.  Why,  what  is  that  ?  Pray,  resolving  that 
you  will  pray  again,  if  the  Lord  do  not  answer  you  now ;  and  that 
you  will  never  give  him  over,  until  he  have  mercy  upon  you.  / 
will  wait  upon  the  Lord,  that  hideth  his  face  from  the  house  of 
Jacob,  and  I  will  look  for  him  [Isa.  viii.  17].  But  what  shall  we 
pray  for  ? 

First.  Pray  for  the  peace  of  Jerusalem  :  they  shall  prosper  that 
love  her  [Ps.  exxii.  6].  Say,  Let  Sion  be  delivered;  not,  Let 
Bristol  be  delivered.  Let  the  bondage  and  burden  be  taken  off  all 
Israel,  and  let  them  be  saved. 

Secondly.  Pray  that  your  troubles,  and  afflictions,  and  persecu- 
tions may  be  sanctified  rather  than  removed.  Let  my  powerful 
corruption  be  removed,  or  taken  away,  rather  than  this  domineer- 
ing prelate.  Let  our  intestine  divisions  be  removed  ;  our  divisions 
healed  ;  our  disputes  silenced ;  our  jealousies,  and  heart-burnings, 
and  prejudices  rebuked ;  and  our  formalities  and  lukewarmness 
fully  cured. 

Thirdly.  Pray  for  your  enemies ;  that  they  may  be  pardoned, 
if  they  belong  to  the  election  of  grace;  that  their  wickedness 
may  come  to  an  end ;  or  else  that  they  may  be  chained,  and 
proceed  no  further. 

Fourthly.  Pray  that  the  gospel  may  gain  much  ground  by  this 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  275 

present  persecution  ;  that  many  may  bo  convinced  and  edified  by 
it ;  that  this  may  be  a  seed  for  an  harvest. 

Fifthly.  And  pray  for  me,  that  my  bonds  may  turn  to  the  fur- 
therance of  the  gospel ;  that  this  dispensation  may  be  abundantly 
sanctified  both  to  you  and  me;  that  my  health  may  be  pre- 
served, if  it  be  the  good  pleasure  of  God ;  and  that  I  may  come 
out  in  the  fulness  of  the  blessing  of  the  gospel.  I  take  leave,  at 
present,  but  hope  to  be  still  meeting  you  somewhere  or  other 
whilst  I  live,  and  in  the  general  assembly  of  the  first-born,  where 
there  is  no  separating,  imperfection,  division,  darkness,  or  spot,  or 
any  such  things.  The  Lord  by  his  Spirit  help  your  infirmities, 
and  bless  you  and  me  abundantly  with  spiritual  blessings  in 
heavenly  things. 

I  am  yours,  in  the  best  bonds, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 

The  fifth  Lord's  day,  being  19th,  seventh  month,  1675. 

Elected  [during  the  month]  moderate  men  for  mayor  and 
sheriffs  the  next  year.  [Sir  Robert  Cann,  mayor;  Charles 
Williams,  George  Lane,  sheriffs.] 

This  Lord's  day  we  were  at  peace. 

The  sixth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle  to  the  church. 

These  for  my  beloved  friends,  the  members  and  auditors  of  the 
congregation  meeting  in  Broadmead,  Bristol. 

[7th  month,  18th,  1675.] 
Dear  Friends, — Solomon  tells  us,  That  which  is  crooked 
cannot  be  made  straight,  and  that  which  is  wanting  cannot  be 
numbered.  [Eccles.  i.  15.]  There  are  some  things  that  lie  cross, 
and  thwart  us,  that  we  know  not  how,  with  all  our  art  and 
industry,  to  make  meet,  and  smooth,  and  even;  and  there  are 
some  things  defective,  short,  or  wanting,  that  we  cannot  tell,  by 
all  our  reach  and  pains,  how  to  compass,  fill  up,  and  perfect.  I 
have  been  considering  that  there  are  two  graces  that  will  do  the 

T  2 


276 


THE    RECORDS 


business :  the  one  will  make  crooked  things  straight,  the  other 
will  make  up  the  number  that  is  wanting ;  and  those  two  graces 
are  faith  and  patience. 

I  ground  what  I  say  upon  two  texts  of  scripture,  Matt.  xv.  28, 
James  i.  4. 

A  good  faith  always  hath  its  will;  and  patience  keeps  a  man 
without  wants- 

A  true  believer  desires  that  the  will  of  the  Lord  might  be  done, 
that  God  always  may  have  his  will,  and  then  he  has  his  own 
when  God  has  his.     Faith  shows  a  believer  that  all  is  for  the 
best  which  the  Lord  wills  and  orders;  and  patience  helps  the  soul 
to  wait  quietly,  till  it  comes  to  see  what  it  before  believed.    What 
is  the  reason  and  ground  of  all  our  perplexities,  [but]  because  we 
are  either  unwilling  to  do  or  suffer  something  that  God  would 
have  us  ?     We  think  some  things  might  better  have  been  other- 
wise than  they  are;  and  thus  we  neither  have  our  own  wills,  nor 
let  God  have  his;   we  neither  give  him  glory,  nor  get  peace  to 
ourselves.     Whereas,  we  should  argue  thus :— the  will  of  God  is 
done,  and  that  pleases  me.     This  is  that  I  daily  pray  for.     This 
is  my  daily  prayer,    Thy  will  be  done ;   and  this  should  be  my 
daily  pleasure,  to  see  it  done  as  it  is  done.     The  will  of  God  is 
the  reason  of  all  his  own  actings,  and  the  rule  of  ours ;  the  will 
of  his  precept  willingly  to  be  performed;  the  will  of  his  provi- 
dence cheerfully  to  be  submitted  to,  to  obey  his  commands,  and 
approve  of  his  disposals  ;  and  still  the  more  severe  the  will  seems 
to  be,  the  more  honourable  is  the  obedience  and  subjection  to  it. 
I  am   sick,  poor,  faint,  feeble,  and   oppressed;    is    it   thy  will, 
Lord  ?   <  Yes/   Why  then,  Thy  will  be  done  ;  it  is  best  of  all.     I 
am  in  prison,  suffer  loss,  &c. ;   is  it  thy  will  ?    <  Yes,  it  is  my  will ; 
for  a  sparrow  doth  not  fall  to  the  ground  without  me.'     Why, 
then,    Lord,  thy  will  be  done  ;   it  is  best  of  all.     Whatever  is 
done  is  well  done,  because  it  is  done,  and  God  does  it ;  and  it 
could  not  be  better  any  way  else,  but  a  great  deal  worse.     Every 
little  wheel  of  providence  has  its  proper  motion,  and,  how  cross 
and   contrary    so   ever   the  motion   be,  they   all  tend   to  bring 
about  the  great  ends  of  God's  glory  and  his  people's  good;  and 


OF   A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  277 

what  would  we  have  more  ?  And  thus  imprisonment,  many 
times,  comes  to  he  a  furtherance  of  the  gospel.  His  will 
appoints  it,  and  his  will  manages  it,  and  it  must  needs  be  very- 
well.  And  thus  might  it  be  to  us  if  we  would  ;  and  we  should 
want  nothing,  had  we  more  faith  and  patience. 

Let  us  take  with  us  words,  and  go  to  God,  and  say,  Lord  take 
away  my  will,  and  then  1  shall  be  pleased  with  every  thing.  Let 
my  will  be  swallowed  up  in  thine,  and  let  me  have  no  will  but 
thine ;  and  then  every  thing  will  be  according  to  my  will,  because 
all  things  come  to  pass  according,  and  not  one  thing  falls  out 
contrary,  to  thy  will,  and  thou  art  well  pleased  in  all  that  thou 
doest.  Oh,  my  brethren,  our  wills  have  been  the  cause  of  all  our 
woes.  We  have  not  considered  the  sovereignty  of  God,  but  have 
chosen  rather  to  fulfil  our  own  desires,  wrhich  have  been  carnal 
and  selfish,  than  obey  the  commands  of  the  great  Creator,  and 
gracious  Redeemer.  And  now,  [since]  I  cannot  preach  a  sermon 
to  you,  I  can  commend  some  good  texts  to  you,  that  may  be  for 
your  instruction,  edification,  quickening,  and  consolation.  And 
they  are  four : — 

1 .  The  first  is  Jer.  iii.  22,  23.  It  is  a  great  mercy  that  the 
Lord  will  vouchsafe  to  give  a  call  to  a  backsliding  people.  He 
could  as  well  say,  Ephraim  is  joined  to  idols :  let  him  alone. 
[Hos.  iv.  12.]  These  people  enjoy  liberty,  and  preaching,  and 
privileges,  and  forms,  and  they  rest  in  them,  and  contract  abun- 
dance of  guilt ;  let  them  alone.  But,  says  God,  I  will  awaken 
them,  as  I  did  Pharaoh;  by  sending  frogs  into  their  chambers 
they  shall  see  the  sights  of  offensive  and  disgustful  creatures,  and 
this,  it  may  be,  wrill  amaze  them,  and  make  them  improve  their 
opportunities  better.  But,  further,  it  is  a  greater  mercy  when  the 
Lord  does  not  only  call  upon  a  people,  but  when  he  makes  them 
willing  to  come  to  him.  Behold,  we  come  unto  thee  !  Flexibility 
and  pliableness  under  the  Lord's  correcting  hand  is  a  singular 
mercy,  and  a  sure  sign  of  a  gracious  heart.  Speak  freely ;  have 
you  not  deserved  all  you  have  met  with,  and  much  more  ?  Is  it 
not  a  wonder  it  is  so  well  with  us  as  it  is?  Are  we  prepared 
to  say  to  God,  every  one  for  himself  and  herself,  Lord,  cure  my 


278  THE    RECORDS 

great  transgression,  that  has  thus  provoked  thee ;  yea,  Lord,  and 
let  my  worldly  heart  be  healed  too ;  aye,  and  my  vain  and  sensual 
imaginations ;  aye,  and  my  murmuring,  fretful,  unbelieving  heart, 
let  it  go  amongst  the  rest ;  aye,  Lord,  and  my  vain  and  foolish 
talking ;  and,  Lord,  before  thou  goest,  take  my  discontented  spirit 
away  with  thee ;  and,  Lord,  let  not  my  weak  and  fainting  spirit  be 
left  behind  ?  Lord,  shall  my  doubts  be  resolved  ?  should  one  say. 
And  should  not  my  corruptions  be  subdued  ?  should  another  say. 
And  hast  thou  not  a  blessing  of  pardon  for  me  ?  and  a  blessing  of 
contentedness  for  me  ?  and  a  blessing  of  faith  for  me  ?  and  a 
blessing  of  the  fear  of  God  for  me  ?  and  a  blessing  of  self- 
denial  for  me  ?  and  a  blessing  of  heavenly-mindedness  for  me  ? 
and  a  blessing  of  courage  and  constancy  for  me  ?  and  a  blessing 
of  meekness  and  conquest  over  passion  for  me?  Lord,  let  not 
this  dispensation  go,  until  we  have  every  one  of  us  a  blessing  by 
it,  more  than  ever  we  got  by  sermons.  Behold,  we  come  unto 
thee  ;  for  thou  art  the  Lord  our  God. 

2.  The  second  text  is  Phil.  i.  29.  The  great  gift  next  to  believ- 
ing on  Christ,  is  suffering  for  Christ.  A  crucified  Christ  is  the 
foundation  of  faith  ;  the  cross  of  Christ  is  the  fruit  of  faith. 

3.  The  third  is  in  Rev.  iii.  10.  Your  testimony  to  the  pure 
public  worship  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  to  his  offices  as  prophet, 
priest,  and  king,  is  now  the  word  of  Jesus  Christ's  patience  ;  and 
for  your  faithful  and  patient  enduring,  the  Lord  will  keep  you 
from  the  hour  of  temptation.  Your  sufferings  now  are  from  the 
worst  of  sinners  for  your  profession.  Your  case  and  cause  is 
clear ;  you  suffer  by  men's  wrath  and  malice.  But  there  are 
judgments  coming  that  will  carry  the  wrath  of  God  in  the  front 
of  them,  and  may  prove  occasions  of  sins  and  snares,  of  fretting 
against  God,  and  blaspheming  his  name;  and  these  you  shall  be 
freed  from.  Your  sufferings  come  in  the  best  season,  upon  the 
best  account,  with  the  greatest  advantage,  safety,  and  security 
that  may  be. 

4.  The  fourth  is  in  Rom.  xvi.  20.  Comfort  one  another  with 
these  words  ;  and  the  peace  of  God,  which  passeth  alt  understand- 
ing, shall  keep  your  hearts  and  minds  through  Christ  Jesus. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  279 

Let  me  never  be  forgotten  by  you,  who  cannot  be  forgotten  by 
me  ;  but  am  your  constant,  faithful  minister,  servant,  and  sufferer, 
for  the  testimony  of  Jesus, 

T.  H. 

P.S.  You  have  been  this  week  seeking  the  Lord  solemnly  and 
seriously ;  you  have  been  directing  your  prayers  to  the  Lord, 
from  whom  alone  cometh  our  help  and  salvation.  Doth  it  not 
become  you  to  be  looking  up,  to  see  what  answer  God  gives  you, 
and  what  return  he  makes  you  ?  In  a  wise  observing  of  provi- 
dences, you  may  take  a  fair  prospect  of  the  faithfulness  of  God 
in  fulfilling  promises,  and  hearing  prayers.  When  Saul  was  con- 
verted, then  had  the  churches  rest.  Read  Acts  viii.  1 — 3,  com- 
pared with  Acts  ix.  20,  31.  If  Sauls  be  not  converted  (which  is 
much  more  desirable),  yet  if  they  be  chained  up,  it  is  a  great 
mercy,  and  deserves  all  humble  and  grateful  acknowledgment. 
'  It  has  been  a  day  of  trouble,  and  rebuke,  and  blasphemy  ;  but 
Go'd  can  stop  the  mouths  of  railing  Rab-shakehs,  and  put  a  check 
upon  invading  Sennacheribs  ;  see  Isa.  xxxvii.  28,  29,  35.  When 
God,  in  the  midst  of  judgment,  remembers  mercy,  it  is  our  duty, 
in  the  midst  of  mercy,  to  remember  the  judgments  of  God  that 
have  been  upon  us,  and  to  tremble  lest  the  Lord  should  not  have 
performed  his  whole  work  upon  us.  To  conclude,  Labour  to  keep 
your  eye  more  upon  God,  and  lean  not  too  much  upon  instru- 
ments. God  can  do  us  good  by  anything,  and  nothing  can  do  us 
good  without  God.  Remember,  happiness  consists  more  in 
removing  inward  than  outward  trouble  ;  and  that  when  we  are 
better,  God  will  quickly  make  our  states  and  conditions  better. 

The  sixth  Lord's  day,  being  26th  of  seventh  month,  1675, 
we  were  greatly  disturbed.  First,  Hellier,  with  six  or  seven 
of  the  bishop's  men,  came  up  in  the  morning,  and  we  were 
singing  ;  they  sat  down  some  time,  and  then  departed  unto 
another  meeting,  and  sends  for  the  mayor.  Then  the 
Serjeants  came  upon  us ;  and  after  that,  Sir  John  Knight, 
Sir  Robert  Yeamans,  and  Alderman  Streamer  came  up,  near 


280  THE    RECORDS 

eleven  of  the  clock,  and  commanded  us  away ;  but  could  not 
find  the  brother  that  spake,  for  we  had  conveyed  him  down 
into  a  room  under,  through  a  trap  made  like  a  biffet-bench 
[buffet]  against  the  wall,  in  a  seat  or  pew  enclosed.  So  at 
the  door  they  took  our  names,  as  we .  came  down,  and  when 
they  had  ended  with  us,  the  other  meetings  were  done  in  the 
Afternoon. 

Seventh  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

4      25th  of  the  seventh  month,  1G75. 
These  for  my'dear"  friends;  the  members  and  auditors  of  the  con- 
gregation, meeting  in  Broadmead,  Bristol. 

I 
Beloved   Friends, — Do  you  not  sit-  admiring  the  powerful 

grace  of  almighty  God  ?  and  are  not  you  relfty  to  say,  as  they 
said  once  of  Christ,  What  manner  of  man  is  this,  that  even  the 
winds  and  the  sea  obey  him  ?  What  a  God  have  we,  that  can 
thus,  all  on  a  sudden,  still  the  enemy  and  the  avenger !  It  puts 
me  in  mind  of  that,  When  the  Lord  turned  again  the  captivity  of 
Zion,  we  were  like  them  that  dreamed,  &c.  [Ps.  cxxvi.  1.]  This 
looks  to  us,  in  some  sense,  like  the  turning  again  of  captivity. 
Though  we  are  yet  in  captivity,  our  taskmasters  are  not  all  alike 
cruel.  The  dogs  have  not  laid  aside  their  canine  disposition, 
only  the  Lord  thinks  fit  to  muzzle  them  for  the  present ;  we  have 
outlived  the  rage  of  our  adversaries.  The  living,  the  living  shall 
praise  thee,  O  Lord,  as  we  desire  to  do  tliis  day  :  the  fathers  to 
the  children  shall  make  knoivn  thy  truth  ;  behold,  for  in  the  midst 
of  an  after  peace  we  have  had  great  bitterness  :  but  thou  hast  in 
love  to  our  souls  delivered  us  from  the  pit  of  destruction.  [Isa. 
xxxix.  17,  19.]  The  Lord  was  ready  to  save  us,  therefore  we 
will  sing  our  songs,  to  the  stringed  instruments,  all  the  days  of 
our  lives,  in  the  house  of  the  Lord.  See  2  Tim.  iv.  17.  It  is 
said,  in  Dun.  vii.25,  of  one  of  the  kings  of  the  fourth  kingdom, 
that  He  shall  speak  great  words  against  the  Most  High,  and  shall 
wear  out  the  saints  of  the  Most  High,  and  shall  think  to  change 
times  and  laws,  &c. ;  see  verses  25 — 27. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  281 

Beloved,  you  and  your  neighbour  congregations  in  this  city 
have  drawn  the  eyes  of  the  -whole  nation  after  you,  and  have 
made  them  turn  aside  to  see  the  great  sight,  that  the  bush  should 
be  in  the  fire  so  long  together,  and  yet  not  burnt.  See  Zeph.  iii. 
12  to  the  end.  That  a  poor,  peaceable,  and  impotent  people, 
should  be  preserved  in  faith,  patience,  constancy,  and  courage, 
notwithstanding  the  continued  combination  and  conspiracies,  the 
constant  and  cruel  onsets,  assaults,  and  endeavours,  with  the 
executions  of  power,  policy,  rage  and  malice,  envy  and  hatred  : 
what  shall  we  say  ?  The  Lord  hath  spoken,  and  himself  hath 
done  it.  [Isa.  xxxviii.  15.]  To  him  alone,  the  Only  Wise,  the 
Almighty,  the  faithful  and  good  God,  be  praise  and  dominion, 
for  ever  and  ever.     Amen. 

But,  methinks,  I  hear  some  ready  to  object,  and  raise  scruples, 
and  ask  some  questions.  I  shall  endeavour  to  obviate  [them], 
and  make  answers  in  these  following  particulars,  which  are 
offered  to  your  considerations  : — 

1.  Do  not  expect  yet  a  final  end  of  your  troubles,  nor  a  total 
immunity  from  them.  See  Judges  iii.  1 — 4.  The  Canaanites 
are  yet  in  the  land,  and  will  be  pricks  in  your  eyes,  and  thorns  in 
your  sides.  It  is  with  us  as  you  will  see,  Ezra  ix.  7 — 9  ;  and  as 
it  is  said  of  them  in  Daniel  [ix.  34,  45],  when  they  shall  fall, 
they  shall  be  holpen  with  a  little  help  ;  but  it  is  said  of  the  enemy, 
yet  shall  he  come  to  his  end,  and  none  shall  help  him. 

2.  Know  this.  It  is  our  duty  and  interest  to  take  notice  of, 
and  bless  God  for,  the  beginnings  of  mercy  and  favour,  even 
when  the  face  of  mercy  does  begin  to  look  toward  us ;  when  the 

1  .»ut  begin  to  dawn,  though  the  sun  be  not  yet  in  sight. 
The  method  that  the  Lord  takes  in  bestowing  his  mercies  is 
gradual,  and  we  have  more  reason  to  be  afraid,  lest  we  should 
not  have  hearts  to  improve  our  present  privileges,  than  that  we 
should  not  so  soon  enjoy  our  wonted  opportunities. 

3.  Expect  yet  greater  troubles  and  trials  than  any  you  have 
met  with.  These  are  but  the  footmen  that  you  have  been 
running  with ;  these  are  but  the  little  fingers  of  antichrist. 
There  is  this  comfort  in  it,  that  you,  having  drunk  so  large  a 


282  THE    RECORDS 

draught  of  the  first  of  the  cup,  may  escape  the  dregs,  and  it  may 
not  come  to  your  turn  to  drink  deeper.  You  have  had  a  double 
draught  of  imprisonment ;  without  doubt  it  is  seasonable  and 
wholesome,  and  that  we  shall  see  in  due  time.  It  may  be  a  pre- 
venting antidote  against  the  snares,  dregs,  poison,  and  infection 
of  antichrist.  However  you  may  escape  hereafter,  yet  I  am 
sure  my  advice  is  good,  that  we  be  in  a  preparedness  for  the 
greatest  trials  and  sufferings  ;  and  that  is  the  way  to  escape 
them. 

4.  Bless  God  for  the  provision  he  makes  you,  and  daily 
supplies  he  gives  you  of  heavenly  food  for  your  souls.  Have 
you  ever  wanted  a  morsel  when  you  were  hungry,  and  a  sweet 
one  too  ?  But  the  full  soul  loathes  the  honeycomb.  Are  you  not 
made  partakers  of  the  gifts  of  divers,  that  tend  to  encourage, 
comfort,  and  strengthen  you  ?  I  could  wish  my  poor  small 
papers  might  help  a  little  too. 

5.  Treasure  up  your  experiences  of  the  Lord's  goodness,  and 
power,  and  faithfulness,  that  they  may  be  useful  if  you  should 
hereafter  meet  with  the  like  temptations.  The  people  of  Israel 
of  old  had  very  bad  memories,  see  Judges  viii.  34,  and  Ps. 
lxxviii.  42,  and  cvi.  7.  It  would  not  be  strange  if  the  stories  of 
persecution,  of  informers,  disturbances,  prelate  imprisonment, 
&c,  should  grow  out  of  date  in  Bristol,  and  be  forgotten. 
Greater  afflictions  and  deliverances  than  ours  have  been  forgotten 
by  a  professing  people  ;  Lam.  iii.  18,  37. 

6.  Learn  this  lesson :  ever  hereafter  to  fear  men  less,  and  trust 
God  more.  The  more  we  venture  upon  him,  the  better  he  is. 
We  have  ventured  upon  six  months'  cross  in  his  way,  and  for  the 
open  profession  of  his  gospel,  and  it  proved  well ;  and  we  have 
ventured  another  in  the  same  cause,  and  I  doubt  not  but  it  will 
prove  better;  and  that  we  shall  see,  when  we  come  to  the  wind- 
ing up  of  the  bottom.  But  we  must  follow  the  Lord  patiently 
and  believingly  ;  he  that  believeth  maketh  not  haste,  and  patience 
must  have  its  perfect  work. 

7.  And,  lastly,  Let  these  winding,  turning,  mixed,  and  amazing 
dispensations,  make  you  tremble,  and  keep  you  humble.     What 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  283 

reverence,  and  holy  fear,  and  dread  ought  to  be  on  our  spirits,  in 
the  consideration  of  these  things,  and  how  should  we  lay  them  up 
in  our  hearts  !  Security,  wantonness,  wrangling,  murmuring, 
distrust,  and  pride,  should  now  all  be  gone  from  us.  Why  ? 
Because  we  have  to  do  with  a  God  that  can  soon  change  our 
states,  and  make  our  conditions  better  or  worse.  See  Job 
ix.  10 — 15.  My  soul  [flesh]  trembleth  for  fear  of  thee,  and  I  am 
afraid  of  thy  judgments.  [Ps.  cxix.  120.]  This  is  the  way  to 
have  rest  in  the  day  of  trouble,  according  to  Habakkuk,  [hi.  16.] 
I  shall  conclude  with  commending  that  comfortable  place  to 
your  serious  perusal,  Ps.  xciv.  12  to  the  end.  Let  these  things 
dwell  in  the  bottom  of  the  imaginations  of  your  hearts  continu- 
ally, and  forget  not  me  in  your  prayers,  who  am  your  poor,  yet 
comforted  prisoner,  for  Jesus'  and  the  gospel's  sake, 

T.   Hardcastle. 

The  seventh  Lord's  day,  being  the  third  of  eighth 
month,  1675,  the  first  Lord's  day  of  the  new  mayor,  Sir 
Robert  Cann,  and  Mr.  Charles  William,  and  Mr.  George 
Lane,  sheriffs,  being  in  office,  whom,  we  trust,  the  Lord,  in 
mercy  to  his  poor  people,  did  strangely  order  to  be  elected, 
and  settled  in  the  seat  of  government,  in  answer  to  his 
people's  prayers  for  moderate  men  ;  which,  when  chosen,  was 
not  a  little  trouble  to  the  persecutors.  Yet,  they  would  give 
us  trouble.  The  bishop's  secretary  goes  to  the  new  mayor, 
and  complains  of  our  meeting,  and  prevails  with  him  to  send 
some  of  his  Serjeants,  who,  with  several  of  the  bishop's 
men,  and  some  new  informers  (as  the  son  of  the  steward 
Robinson,  a  vile,  unclean  man,  and  one  George  Hellier, 
brother-in-law  to  Hellier;  but  he  himself,  it  was  said,  was 
gone  forth  of  town,  with  one  Quarles,  a  wicked  country 
informer;  it  was  doubted,  to  trouble  friends  out  of  town), 
these,  with  others,  about  seven  or  eight,  came,  after  some  of 
them  had  before  been,  and  saw  we  were  assembled.  They 
all  came  up,  between  ten  andu  eleven  in  the  morning,  and 


284  THE    RECORDS 

command  us,  by  order  from  the  mayor,  to  depart ;  but  seeing 
that  we  did  not,  one  of  the  Serjeants  makes  proclamation  by 
O  yes!  three  times,  and  then  in  the  king's  name  we  are 
commanded  to  depart.  But  not  yet  moving,  then  the 
steward's  son,  and  Hellier's  brother-in-law,  take  the  names  of 
such  as  they  and  the  officers  knew,  and  then  departed ;  after 
which  we  leave  off  singing,  and  conclude  with  prayer,  our 
time  being  expired. 

In  the  afternoon  we  were  quiet ;  and  our  pastor  now 
having  favour  from  the  sheriffs  to  be  a  prisoner  at  his  own 
house,  though  he  dared  not  to  get  to  the  public  meeting- 
house ;  yet,  we  having  been  now  about  eight  months  deprived 
of  the  celebration  of  the  Lord's  supper,  by  reason  our  pastor 
was  kept  in  prison,  this  evening,  after  the  public  meeting 
was  ended,  we  dispersed,  and  came  to  brother  Ellis's  house, 
whereto  our  pastor  had  before  conveyed  himself.  And  there, 
then,  we  had  the  opportunity  for  the  members  of  the  church 
to  hear  him  preach  about  an  hour,  and  after  that  break  bread 
very  comfortably.  Praise  be  to  the  Lord  for  his  good 
ordinance  and  opportunity. 


The  eighth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

These  for  my  beloved  friends,  the  members  and  auditors  of  the 
congregation  meeting  in  Broadmead,  Bristol. 

Dearly  Beloved, — Our  condition  seems  to  be  various  as 
April  weather ;  sometimes  showers,  and  sometimes  sunshine,  and 
both  necessary  towards  a  spring.  And  of  such  influence  must 
we  esteem  and  account  the  diversity  of  the  Lord's  dispensations 
owards  us,  all  of  them  working  together  for  our  further  thriving, 
flourishing,  and  prospering  in  the  house  and  ways  of  God.  The 
flowing  out  of  the  spices,  and  the  pleasantness  of  the  fruits,  were 
beholden  to  the  north  wind  as  well  as  to  the  south,  Cant.  iv.  10. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  285 

I  hope,  through  the  blessing  of  God,  when  the  storm  is  a  little 
over,  you  will  see  a  great  deal  of  fruit  that  is  worth  gathering  up. 
The  word  of  God  is  not  bound;    persecuting  times  have  been 
converting  times,  and  the  wall  was  built  in  troublous  times.     As 
the  gospel  takes  notice  in  whose  reign  and  government  our  Lord 
Jesus   was  born   and  suffered,   so  in   due   time    you    will    find 
that  many  will  date  their  spiritual  birth,  their  love  to  the  things 
of  God,  their  confirmation  in  the  truths  of  God,  from  such  a 
year,  the  first  year  that  such  a  bishop  came  to  town,  such  a  man 
being  governor  of  the  city  that  year ;   see  Luke  iii.  1,  2.     This 
hath  been  a  year  of  the  right  hand  of  the  Most  High,  and  it 
ought  to  be  ever   remembered,  and   never  forgotten.      I   have 
heard  that  you  have  had  the  plague  in  this  city,  which  sent  many 
to   their   graves ;    and    some   fires,   which    consumed    dwelling 
houses,  and  turned  them  to  ashes  ;  and  I  hope  you  have  not  for- 
gotten them,  nor  what  the  Lord's  design  was  in  them.     But  of 
all  plagues,  none  like  the  locusts  that  come  out  of  the  bottomless 
pit,  and  the  persecution  that  is  kindled  by  the  fire  of  hell.     The 
plague  of  the   beast  and  the  whore,  the   beast  and  the   false 
prophet,  is  the  worst  of  all  plagues;    but  for  comfort  see  Rev. 
xviii.  4 — 8,  and  xx.  10.     There  are  glorious  prophecies  to  be 
fulfilled,  and  glorious  promises  t©  be  accomplished.     How  com- 
fortably may  faith  and  patience  live  upon  Rev.  xviii.     Read  the 
whole  chapter  at  your  leisure.     There  are  several  periods  of  ful- 
filling the  Lord's  promises,  and  they  that  are  wise  will  observe 
providential  accomplishments ;  and  they,  even  '-they,  shall  under- 
stand the  loving-kindness  of  the  Lord  in  all.     Could  we  but  get 
our  faith  strengthened  more  in  the  love,  faithfulness,  power,  and 
dominion  of  our  dear  Lord  Jesus,  all  other  graces  would  receive 
quickening,    nourishment,    and   encouragement.      Our    patience 
would  be  lengthened,  our  hopes  strengthened,  our  courage  forti- 
fied, our  love  to  God  and  each  other  inflamed,  our  duties  made 
easy   and   pleasant,    our    sufferings    light   and   momentary,    our 
adversaries'  rage  little  and  short,  our  deliverance  more  certain  and 
glorious,  and  all  the  dispensations  of  God  towards  us  necessary, 
and  as  his  precepts  are,  holy,  just,  and  good.     But  I   need  not 


286  THE    RECORDS 

enlarge  to  you  about  these  things.     Remember,  and  treasure  up 
these  eight  directions,  or  considerations  : — 

1.  That  though  many  men  may  seem  to  have  respect  and 
favour  for  Christ  in  a  time  of  prosperity,  yet  nothing  but  true 
grace,  and  a  thorough  change  of  heart,  will  help  a  man  to  love 
him,  and  his  concernments,  at  all  times. 

2.  That  wicked  men,  and  ungodly  men,  are  prevented  of  doing 
that  mischief  they  design  against  the  people  of  God,  when  they 
trust  in  his  power.  And  godly  men  are  disappointed  of  that  good 
which  they  expect  from  other  men,  when,  by  such  expectings, 
their  faith  in  the  omnipotence  of  God  is  weakened  and  divided. 

3-  That  the  answer  of  prayer,  as  it  ought  to  be  attended  with 
thanksgiving,  so  it  ought  to  be  followed  with  more  and  more 
fervent  supplications.  God  give  us  mercy  to  encourage  us  to 
pray  for  more,  and  not  to  have  us  sit  down  under  the  shadows  of 
mercies  received  ;  see  Jonah  iv.  6 — 8. 

4.  The  more  singly,  solely,  and  sincerely  we  deal  with  God  in 
any  matter,  the  more  composed  and  quiet  shall  our  hearts  be, 
and  the  fewer  our  straits  and  disappointments,  though  they  may 
seem  otherwise  to  the  world. 

5.  That  the  temptations  from  a  flattering,  are  much  more 
dangerous  than  from  a  frowning,  world.  The  traveller  that  girt 
his  coat  about  him,  and  kept  on  his  way,  notwithstanding  the 
windy  storm,  did  not,  when  the  sun  sinned,  slacken  his  pace, 
ungird  and  throw  off  his  coat. 

6.  That  Satan,  in  the  turn  and  change  of  providences,  plays 
the  closest  game,  and  therefore  we  have  need  of  greatest  watch- 
fulness. Satan  is  a  spirit,  and  he  is  never  weary,  though  some- 
times his  instruments  may  move  heavily:  and  when  he  cannot 
make  outward  disturbance,  he  knows  how  to  lay  siege  to  our 
hearts  by  his  sly  insinuations,  subtle  suggestions,  and  plausible 
artifices.  Though  all  the  meeting  be  quiet,  he  knows  how  to 
trouble  every  meeter. 

7.  Examine  yourselves,  what  obedience  you  have  learned  by 
the  things  you  have  suffered;  wherein  the  inward  enemies, 
that  raised  up  the  outward,  have  received  a  wound,  a  defeat,  and 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  287 

destruction  by  the  outward;  whether  the  old  unbelief  and  un- 
profitableness has  not  hereby  been  discovered,  and  in  a  good 
measure  overthrown. 

8.  Observe  what  aspect  every  ordinance  and  providence  hath 
upon  grace  and  glory  ;  not  how  flesh,  and  blood,  and  fancy,  and 
self  is  pleased,  but  how  the  soul  is  profited,  in  order  to  an  holy 
life,  and  honouring  God,  and  a  comfortable  departing  out  of  this 
world. 

The  Lord  be  with  you  all.  My  true  love  to  you  all.  The  re- 
membrance of  these  few  hints  will,  I  hope,  make  you  remember 
me  not  the  less  at  the  throne  of  grace ;  who  yet  remains  your 
remembrancer  from  God  to  you,  and  to  God  from  you,  whilst  T 
remain  a  prisoner  for  Christ's  sake,  and  I  hope  for  yours  and  the 
gospel's  advantage. 

T.  Hardcastle. 

From  my  prison,  at  my  own  house,  8th  month,  2nd  day,  1675. 

The  eighth  Lord's  day  after  our  pastor's  second  im- 
prisonment, being  the  tenth  of  8th  month,  1675,  we  were 
troubled  in  the  morning  with  the  constables  only.  They 
came  up  and  commanded  us  to  depart,  and  so  left  us ;  in  the 
afternoon  we  were  quiet. 

Ninth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

Beloved  Friends, — When  I  remember  that  text,  1  Tim.  iv.  6, 
If  thou  put  the  brethren  in  remembrance  of  these  things,  thou  shalt 
be  a  good  minister  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  am  the  more  encouraged  to 
write  to  you,  line  upon  line,  here  a  little,  and  there  a  little ;  and  I 
am  also  the  more  confirmed  by  considering  Eccles.  xi.  6.  Read 
it.  That  is  good  doctrine  which  the  Lord  blesses  to  us.  When 
the  Spirit  of  God  takes  a  promise,  a  passage,  a  line,  a  sentence, 
and  stamps  it  upon  the  heart,  that  will  stick,  and  prove  strengthen- 
ing ;  when  all  the  rest  which  is  heard,  as  well  as  that,  becomes  as 
water  spilt  on  the  ground,  which  cannot  be  gathered  up.  Pray 
hard  for  divine  teachings,  spiritual  illuminations  and  transformings : 


288  THE    RECORDS 

for  holy  fixedness  of  heart,  that  vain  thoughts  may  be  dislodged, 
and  the  word  of  Christ  may  dwell  in  you  richly  in  all  wisdom  and 
spiritual  understanding ;  that  ye  be  not  unwise,  but  understanding 
what  the  will  of  the  Lord  is ;  redeeming  the  time  ;  and  always 
concluding,  that  the  more  exact  and  accurate,  the  more  thorough 
and  universal  your  gospel  obedience  is,  then, 

First.  The  more  honourable,  beautiful,  and  convincing  will  your 
conversation  be. 

Secondly.  The  more  peaceable,  joyful,  and  comfortable  will  your 
consciences  be. 

Thirdly.  The  more  easy,  sweet,  and  delightful  will  your  duties  be. 

Fourthly.  The  more  safe,  cheerful,  and  contented  will  your  out- 
ward conditions  be. 

Fifthly.  The  more  perfumed,  and  acceptable  to  God,  will  your 
prayers  and  praises  be. 

Sixthly.  The  more  prepared  for  dying,  and  the  more  fit  to  live, 
will  you  be.-    And, 

Seventhly.  The  more  glorious,  and  exceeding  heavy,  will  your 
crown  and  recompence  of  reward  be. 

The  great  design  of  the  Lord,  in  all  ordinances  and  providences, 
is  to  bring  us  to  a  greater  conformity  to  his  nature  and  will,  and 
the  image  of  his  Son.  But  we  remain  lean,  and  barren,  and  un- 
fruitful, and  much  unlike  to  God  and  Christ ;  and  the  grounds  of 
it  seem  to  be  these  that  follow  : — 

First.  The  want  of  well  methodizing  and  right  managing  our 
meditations,  which  are  the  digestive  faculty  of  the  soul.  Our 
thoughts  are  grown  so  transient,  slippery,  and  unstable,  that  we 
cannot  dwell  long  upon  any  holy  and  heavenly  matter,  and  so  lose 
the  sweetness  and  solid  substance,  which  otherwise  we  might  draw 
from  it.  Nor  do  we  so  watch  against  Satan,  that  bird  of  the  air, 
to  prevent  his  stealing  the  word  from  us,  and  depriving  us  of  the 
benefit  of  it,  by  his  sly  insinuations,  sudden  injections,  unseason- 
able motions,  Agrippa-like^  delays  and  put-offs, — at  a  conve- 
nient time,  we  will  call  upon  this  word  again,  and  consider  more 
of  it. 

Secondly.  A  thorny,  choking,  importunate,  pressing,  and  en- 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  289 

snaring  world,  that  grudges  all  time  and  care  and  thoughtfulness 
that  is  not  spent  upon  itself,  and  would  make  us  believe  that  there 
is  a  kind  of  necessity  and  expediency  that  at  all  times  it  should 
have  free  access  to  our  hearts,  and  we  must  not  any  time  refuse  to 
speak  with  it.  But  read  over  some  texts  :  Luke  vi.  24 ;  and  Matt, 
xiii.  22;  Jas.  iv.  4;  1  John  ii.  15— 17  ;  Phil.  iv.  5—13;  Heb.  v. 
6;  Luke  xii.,  xv.,  xxi.  35 — 37.  The  cares  of  the  world  make 
us  sleepy  and  secure,  and  little  to  think  of  Christ  and  his  word,  and 
speedy  return. 

Thirdly.  Our  coming  short  in  the  practice  of  known  duties ;  to 
him  that  hath  shall  be  given.  They  that  do  the  will  of  God  shall 
know  it.  What  cause  have  we  to  mourn  over  omissions  of  duty, 
and  slender,  slight,  formal,  careless  performings  of  them.  Is  not 
secret  prayer,  and  family  prayer,  reading  and  meditation,  are  not 
these  duties  1  Is  not  doing  and  receiving  all  the  good  we  can  a 
duty?  Is  not  attendance  on  public  worship  a  duty?  and  has  not 
fear,  or  slothfulness,  or  a  slender  excuse,  many  times  kept  us  from, 
or  brought  us  late  to  a  meeting  ?  Is  there  never  a  guilty  con- 
science that  begins  to  be  smitten,  and  to  say,  Lord,  I  am  the  man, 
or  the  woman,  and  it  shall  be  so  no  more ;  I  will  not  be  so  negli- 
gent for  time  to  come  ?  and, 

First,  I  will  take  heed  to  my  heart,  that  worldly,  wanton, 
envious,  and  unprofitable  thoughts  do  not  fill  it. 

Secondly,  I  will  take  heed  to  my  taste,  that  I  do  not  indulge  my 
appetite,  nor  make  provision  for  the  flesh,  to  fulfill  the  lusts 
thereof;  but  will  deny  myself,  even  in  lawfuls,  that  I  may  escape 
the  danger  of  unlawfuls. 

Thirdly,  I  will  take  heed  that  I  offend  not  with  my  tongue, 
either  in  sinful  silence  or  in  sinful  speaking :  either  in  holding  my 
peace,  when  I  might  or  ought  to  speak  to  the  glory  of  God,  or 
edification  of  others,  or  suffering  my  tongue  to  run  out  to  the 
dishonour  of  God,  and  the  damage  of  my  neighbour. 

Fourthly,  I  will  take  heed  to  my  time,  that  I  spend  it  more  pro- 
fitably, and  not  squander,  and  idle,  and  trifle,  and  drive  it  away, 
as  if  it  were  good  for  nothing,  when  nothing  in  this  world  is  more 
precious. 

u 


290  THE    RECORDS 

Beloved,  at  present  I  shall  add  no  more  but  a  direction  and  B 
prayer.  The  general  direction  is  this,  that  in  all  your  actions  you 
do  actually  and  sincerely  design  the  glory  of  God,  and  watch 
especially  against  self,  which  does  so  secretly,  cunningly,  closely, 
and  continually  essay  to  mix  itself,  and  make  itself  uppermost  or 
undermost,  in  every  thing  you  do.  The  Lord  looks  chiefly  at  the 
heart,  at  our  intentions  and  aims ;  and  it  is  fit  that  our  eye  and 
watch  should  be  placed  where  his  observation  is  fixed.  My  hearty 
prayer  for  you  is,  that  you  may  stand  fast  in  the  faith,  and  grow  in 
grace  daily,  more  and  more,  notwithstanding  the  opposition  of  the 
enemy  without,  and  more  dangerous  enmity  and  obstructions  from 
within.  Our  time  is  short,  our  seasons  in  peril,  our  spirits  feeble, 
our  temptations  many,  our  trials  great,  our  burdens  heavy ;  but  for 
our  encouragement,  our  God  is  strong,  our  High  Priest  merciful, 
our  Comforter  abiding,  our  troubles  perishing,  our  enemies  dying, 
our  work  the  Lord's,  and  our  labour  not  in  vain  in  the  Lord; 
1  Cor.  xv.  last  verse.  Comfort  one  another  with  these  words. 
I  am,  dear  friends, 

Your  most  affectionate  brother,  and  companion  in  tribulation, 
and  in  the  kingdom  and  patience  of  Jesus  Christ, 

Thos.   Hahdcastle. 

From  my  prison  in  my  house, 
8  m.  8  d.  1675. 

The  ninth  Lord's  day,  being  17th  day  8th  month,  1675,  in 
the  morning  we  had  but  little  disturbance,  Hellier  only  came 
up  and  went  down  again ;  but  in  the  afternoon  we  had  much 
trouble.  Hellier  and  several  constables  came  up,  and  because 
the  stairs  were  somewhat  filled,  that  he  could  not  get  up,  he 
did  very  much  haul  brother  James  Bland,  who  stood  in  the 
stairs,  and  ripped  his  cloak ;  but  (he  holding  by  the  rope  of 
the  stairs)  could  not  get  him  away  from  the  place.  Then 
Hellier  plucked  brother  Bland's  hat  off  his  head,  and  gave  it 
to  his  man,  who  carried  it  home  to  Hellier's  house  and  there 
kept  the  castor,  and  would  not  let  him  have  it  again,  though 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  291 

demanded  and  sent  for;  and  when  they,  with  Hellier,  got 
up,  in  the  morning,  with  two  Serjeants,  Robert  Edwards 
and  Thomas  Chatten,  they  go  up  and  down  the  meeting, 
(while  the  people  kept  singing,)  and  take  names. 

The  tenth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

These  for  my  dear  friends,  the  members  and  auditors  of  the  con- 
gregation meeting  in  Broadmead. 

Dearly  Beloved, — When  I  think  upon  that  passage,  John  vi. 
28,  29,  I  do  conclude,  that  seeing  a  great  part  of  a  Christian's 
.  business  lies  in  believing,  his  principal  care  should  be  that  he  do 
this  work  right ;  to  miss  it  in  point  of  faith,  is  to  miss  it  in  point  of 
salvation.  Many  think  they  have  faith  that  have  it  not;  and  some 
think  they  do  not  believe  at  all,  upon  whom  God  hath  bestowed 
this  gift ;  the  former  [is]  very  dangerous,  the  latter  very  uncom- 
fortable. Pity  it  is,  that  any  should  be  deceived  with  a  false  pre- 
sumption, and  so  go  securely  to  hell;  and  not  much  less,  that 
others  should  not  know  the  good  that  God  has  done  for  them,  and 
so  go  despairingly  to  heaven ;  and,  in  the  meantime,  God  loses 
the  glory,  and  they  the  comfort,  of  his  free  justifying  grace. 

I  shall,  through  the  Lord's  help,  endeavour  to  offer  something 
with  respect  to  both  cases,  as  opportunity  shall  serve.  And  first, 
I  shall  take  notice  of  the  former  sort,  who  make  full  account  they 
are  believers,  and  thereupon  good  Christians,  and  are  not.  And 
for  the  quickening  and  stirring  up  of  your  attention  unto,  and 
attendance  upon,  this  so  important  a  concern,  let  me  premise  a  few 
things. 

First  premise.  There  may  be  a  devotion,  a  course  of  duty,  a 
religious  worshipping,  and  some  good  measure  of  circumspection 
in  walking,  which  may  be  an  enemv  to  faith,  and  to  the  righteous- 
ness  of  faith,  which  is  bottomed  upon  the  old  covenant,  and  grows 
up  out  of  some  good  remainders  of  ruined  nature,  helped  by  gospel 
light  and  common  grace. 

Second  premise.     There  may  be  soundness  in  the  doctrines  and 

U  2 


292  THE    RECORDS 

principles  of  faith,  and  a  long,  glorious,  uncontradicted  profession, 
where  there  is  not  a  dram  of  savins;  faith. 

Third  premise.  They  that  upon  the  hearing  of  such  words  and 
doctrine  as  this,  are  not  willing  to  examine  themselves  upon  this 
great  point,  it  is  to  be  feared  that  they  have  not  been  possessors 
of  this  faith  of  God's  elect. 

Fourth  premise.  There  is  a  counterfeit  faith,  which  passes 
amongst  most  for  a  true  faith  ;  which  is  very  like  true  faith,  and 
hardly  discernable  from  il  ;  which  is  not  that  precious  faith  the 
apostle  speaks  of,  2  Pet.  i.  1.  Such  a  resemblance  there  is,  that 
it  is  by  others,  who  have  true  faith,  judged  to  be  right ;  and  those 
that  have  it  do  confidently  conclude  it  to  be  unfeigned,  1  Tim.  i.  5. 
Having  premised  these  things,  I  shall  offer  some  differencing 
characters  between  a  true  and  a  false  faith  :  the  touchstones  of 
faith. 

I.  True  faith  is  the  gift  of  God  :  a  seeming  faith  may  be 
acquired  and  obtained,  by  a  diligent  improvement  of  nature,  and 
good  education,  and  converse.  When  I  call  it  the  gift  of  God,  it 
does  imply  :  — 

1.  The  freeness  of  it.  The  soul  looks  upon  itself  as  wholly  be- 
holden to  God :  is  much  possessed  with  admiring  and  amazing 
thoughts  about  it.  This  is  a  gift  that  is  better  than  all  the  world. 
An  emperor  would  be  glad  of  it ;  it  would  be  better  to  him  than 
his  empire.  And  that  God  should  bestow  it  on  me,  and  pass  by 
so  many  others  that  I  know  have  it  not,  as  surely  as  I  know  I 
have  it,  [even]  such  a  gift,  to  such  a  weak  wretched  creature,  as 
the  world  cannot  give  nor  take  away.  Now  a  seeming  faith  causes 
no  such  admiring  thoughts  ;  a  thing  easily  attainable,  procured  by 
human  endeavour  ; — nothing  above  what  nature  can  do  in  it,  with 
such  helps  as  those  have  that  live  under  the  light  of  the  gospel. 

2.  The  strangeness  and  wonderfulness  of  it.  What  comes  from 
God  immediately,  is  wonderful,  as  being  that  which  is  above 
nature,  and  not  coming  in  common  course. 

When  God  sent  a  saving  light  unto  thy  soul,  and  opened  thy 
blind  understanding,  and  overruled  thy  will  and  affections,  did  il 
not  cause  wonderment  in  thee  ?     Didst  thou  not  wonder  what  new 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHPvIST.  293 

sights  and  discoveries  were  made  to  thee  of  thyself  and  every 
thing  else  ?  What  new  lord,  lawgiver,  and  controller  was  come 
into  thy  soul  to  make  a  change  of  all  things,  and  must  not  be 
contradicted  ? 

3.  The  powerfulness  and  absoluteness  of  it.  What  comes  from 
God  hath  power  and  strength.  The  proud  waves  of  an  ignorant, 
worldly,  proud,  superstitious,  and  stubborn  heart,  that  could 
strongly  plead  prescription,  possession,  universal  custom  and  coun- 
tenance, must  presently  come  under  the  obedience  of  these  new 
manifestations,  and  those  so  directly  contrary  to  formerly  received 
tenets  and  practices.  All  the  world  could  not  have  ever  persuaded 
thee  to  such  a  turn  and  change,  without  this  glorious  and  almighty 
power.     See  Eph.  i.  19,  20,  and  often  meditate  upon  it. 

This  faith  removes  mountains  of  corruption,  and  causes  a  smooth, 
even,  submissive  frame  of  spirit : — bids  this  lust  go  and  depart,  and 
it  is  gone;  and  to  that  grace,  come  and  be  active  in  the  soul,  and  it 
comes.  Before,  pride  ruled  :  now,  humility  and  a  yielding  frame 
of  spirit  has  got  the  place ;  before,  passionateness  :  now,  meek- 
ness ;  before,  sottishness,  and  senselessness  about  the  things  of 
God  :  now,  seriousness,  solicitousness,  and  diligent  inquiry  after 
God,  and  his  word,  and  ways,  and  people,  a  savouriness  of  spirit, 
and  disrelishing  the  former  husks  of  the  world  Avhich  were  fed 
upon  ;  before,  covetousness  reigned  :  now,  heavenliness,  and  medi- 
tations and  discourses  about  the  world  to  come,  an  everlasting- 
kingdom,  the  Master's  joy,  being  ever  with  the  Lord.  Now  the 
soul  comes  to  know  the  sense  and  savour  of  such  texts  as  these : — 
2  Cor.  iv.  6,  John  vi.  35,  49,  50—59,  Gal.  ii.  20,  and  iii.  13, 
14,  26,  Eph.  ii.  13,  (read  the  chapter  at  leisure,)  Eph.  iv.  20 — 24, 
Eph.  v.  8 — 11,  Col.  i.  12 — 14,  Thess.  ii.  13,  and  many  more. 

4.  There  is  implied  the  tendency  of  it.  That  faith  which  is  the 
gift  of  God  leads  unto  God.  The  soul  breathes  after  a  more 
intimate,  single,  full,  and  close  communion  with  God  :  is  never 
better  pleased,  than  when  it  has  most  immediately  to  do  with  God. 
But  a  counterfeit  faith  is  best  pleased  with  profession,  privileges,  a 
fair  show  in  the  flesh,  the  external  part  of  worship,  with  some 
additions   of   worldly   accommodations;    and   loves  not   to   have 


294  THE    RECORDS 

conscience  lie  so  directly  under  the  eye  of  God,  and  open  to  the  word 
of  God ;  loves  not  to  be  searched  and  tried,  lest  the  reserved 
iniquity  should  be  produced,  as  this  true  faith  does,  which  speaks 
on  this  wise : — Lord,  I  love  to  be  near  thee,  and  with  thee,  though 
thou  art  still  letting  me  see  my  errors,  and  reproving  me  for  my 
infirmities;  let  me  see  thee,  and  hear  thee  chiding,  rather  than 
want  thy  company ;  I  do  not  desire  to  hide  any  the  least  thing 
from  thee ;  Lord,  thou  knowest  my  very  heart,  thou  knowest  I 
would  discover  the  worst  of  myself  unto  thee,  and  I  would  do  my 
best  for  thee ;  and  my  chiefest  desire  is  to  be  ever  with  thee,  freed 
from  this  body  of  death  that  I  carry  about  with  me,  and  is  the 
greatest  burden  I  have  in  this  world,  because  I  cannot  have  that 
clear  and  full  communion  with  thee,  who  art  a  holy  God,  till  I  be 
freed  from  corruption,  and  have  my  heart  and  nature  fully  sancti- 
fied :  which  I  do  as  earnestly  desire  as  ever  I  did  the  pardon  of 
my  sins,  when  thou  shewedst  me  the  guilt  of  them,  and  my  obliga- 
tion thereby  to  eternal  condemnation ;  let  there  not  be  a  spot  left 
in  me,  and  let  me  see  thy  face. 

"  Ah  !  my  dear  God,  though  I  am  clean  forgot, 
Let  me  love  thee,  if  I  love  thee  not." 

This  is  the  first  discriminating  note,  between  an  unfeigned  and  a 
false  faith.  I  will  not  at  present  burden  your  memories  with  any 
more.  If  the  Lord  bless  these  few  hints,  I  shall  be  encouraged 
by  the  help  of  your  prayers,  and  the  supplies  of  divine  influence 
and  the  Spirit  of  Jesus,  to  inquire  a  little  further  into  the  matter, 
which  is  of  such  close  consideration :  and  I  hope  the  Lord  will 
help.  I  shall  conclude  with  that  prayer  of  the  apostle,  in  2  Thess. 
ii.  16,  17  ;  and  remain, 
Yours  in  the  faith,  fellowship,  and  testimony  of  our  Lord  Jesus. 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 

From  my  prison,  in  my  house, 

8th  month  15th  day,  1  ()?-"> 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  295 

Upon  20th  Oct.  1675,  Mr.  Thompson's  congregation  put  off 
their  lecture  to  that  day  fortnight,  and  so  to  be  but  once  every 
other  week. 

Upon  22nd  day  8th  month,  the  mayor,  Sir  Robert  Cann, 
made  a  feast,  and  invited  most  of  the  chief  of  the  separatists 
in  the  city,  which  troubled  Hellier. 

The  tenth  Lord's  day,  being  24th  day  of  8th  month,  1675, 
we  had  great  trouble  all  day.  In  the  morning,  Hellier  writes 
a  letter  to  the  mayor,  and  requires  his  help.  So,  Hellier 
knowing  the  mavor  would  come,  he  first  comes  with  several 
constables,  and  pulls  and  hauls  several  of  the  younger  sort,  and 
turns  them  clown  stairs.  He  very  much  abused  Mr.  Tipton's 
servant,  plucked  him  by  the  hair  and  ears,  and  dragged  him 
along  the  meeting  ;  the  constables  made  as  if  they  did  not  see 
it.  Then  he  called  the  constables  to  help  him  pull  and  turn 
down  several.  Then  Sir  Wm.  Cann,  the  mayor's  son,  came 
from  his  father  first,  and  told  us  his  father  was  forced  to  come, 
and  therefore  desired  us  to  depart.  Then  the  mayor  himself, 
Sir  Robert  Cann,  came  (with  Sheriff  Williams  and  Alderman 
Hicks,  and  Serjeants),  and  declared  how  he  was  unwilling  to 
give  us  this  trouble,  but  was  forced  to  it  by  this  fellow 
Hellier,  the  informer,  and  therefore  desired  us  to  depart ;  and, 
it  being  now  near  the  time  of  our  ending,  we  departed. 

Then,  in  the  afternoon,  Hellier  came  again,  and  found  us 
assembled  again ;  then  sends  his  man  to  Wasbrow's  [Wer- 
burgh's]  church,  and  fetched  out  Alderman  Hicks  and 
Alderman  Streamer,  who  came  with  several  Serjeants,  first  to 
Mr.  Weeks's,  and  then  to  us :  when,  that  our  sermon  was 
ended,  and  a  letter  from  our  pastor  was  reading  to  the  people, 
the  constables,  with  Hellier,  command  us  to  depart.  Brother 
Ellis,  who  was  reading  the  letter,  told  them  we  should  depart 
presently,  therefore  prayed  them  to  sit  down,  for  we  were  not 
now  about  any  matter  of  worship,  but  only  reading  a  letter. 
Then,  by  and  by,  brother  Ellis  was  interrupted  again  as  he 


296  THE    RECOK; 

was  reading ;  he  told  them  he  knew  no  act  of  parliament 
against  reading  a  letter.  When  that  brother  Ellis  had  done 
reading  the  letter,  the  people  went  to  depart ;  but  they  kept 
the  doors,  and  Hellier  and  his  man  took  their  names,  Alder- 
man Hicks  and  Alderman  Streamer  standing  by.  And  they 
brought  brother  Ellis  before  the  mayor  for  reading  the  letter, 
who  appointed  him  to  come  to  the  Tolzey  the  next  morning  to 
answer.  So  he  did,  but  the  mayor  came  not.  Then  Hellier 
and  his  man  gave  in  an  information  against  Mr.  Ellis,  upon 
their  oaths,  that  brother  Ellis  did  preach  or  teach,  and  caused 
it  to  be  filed,  in  order  to  his  conviction  before  Alderman 
Hicks  and  Alderman  Streamer,  the  25th  8th  month,  1675. 
Herein  may  be  observed  the  wickedness  of  Hellier,  that  so 
knowingly  and  wilfully  would  swear  false,  when  he  knew  it 
was  but  a  letter  that  brother  Ellis  read ;  yet  he  and  his  man 
sware  brother  Ellis  did  teach  or  preach.  This  is  pre- 
sumptuous perjury. 

Eleventh  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

[Oct.  23,  1675.] 
These  for  my  loving  friends,  the   members  and  auditors    of  the 
congregation  meeting  in  Broadmead,  Bristol. 

Dearly  beloved, — I  am  treating  with  you  about  the  great  point 
of  true  and  saving  faith.  I  perceive  that  Satan  is  angry  at  it,  and 
would  interrupt  both  me  in  the  writing,  and  you  in  the  reading. 
I  presently  found  out  the  cause  of  both,  in  Eph.  vi.  10. 

I  have  already  acquainted  you,  that  true  faith  is  the  gift  of 
God  ;  and  am  now,  in  the  second  place, 

II.  Through  the  assistance  of  divine  grace  and  influence,  to  dis- 
cover to  you  that  it  is  precious,  2  Pet.  i.  1.  Not  a  common,  cheap, 
traditional,  and  notional  faith,  a  parochial  and  neighbourhood  faith. 
The  preciousness  of  this  faith,  for  our  clearer  understanding  of  it, 
in  order  to  self-examination,  we  may  consider  in  a  threefold  respect. 

1.  As  it  makes  Christ  very  precious  to  the  soul,  1  Pet.  ii.  (>,  7,  the 
most  desirable,  and  longed  for.     A  soul  thoroughly  convinced  of 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  297 

and  humbled  for  sin,  by  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  useth  some 
such  ponderings  and  expressions  as  these  : — 

Nothing  will  do  me  good,  but  the  blood  of  Christ.  I  can  have 
no  relief  from  performances,  privileges,  enjoyments ;  my  good 
works  will  not  bear  the  weight  of  my  evil  ones.  I  commit  more 
sin  than  I  do  good ;  nay,  I  sin  in  all  the  good  I  do.  I  go  from 
duty  to  duty,  and  from  ordinance  uTordinance,  and  fain  would  I 
meet  with  Jesus  Christ.  My  sins  are  a  burden  too  heavy  for  me 
to  bear,  and  I  am  ready  to  sink  under  them.  Oh  that  I  could  get 
hold  of  him  :  I  would  feel  him:  I  would  find  him.  I  am  weary 
of  my  transgression.  I  have  not  rest  because  of  my  sin.  I  have 
been  often  told  of  believing  on  Christ,  and  coming  to  Christ,  and 
closing  with  a  naked  Christ:  Oh,  that  I  knew  where  J  might  find 
him  !  Give  me  faith,  or  else  I  die  !  Oh,  for  some  precious 
faith[!  If  Jesus  Christ  would  but  treat  with  me,  and  give  me  a 
meeting,  he  and  I  would  not  differ,  we  should  quickly  come  to  an 
agreement.  I  would  accept  of  his  terms  with  all  my  heart,  and  be 
for  ever  obliged  to  be  his  grateful  servant ;  and  never  think  I  can 
do  enough  for  him,  though  I  should  lay  down  my  life  for  him.  He 
shall  have  all  my  iniquities,  that  have  exposed  me  to  eternal  ruin, 
and  have  made  me  such  a  filthy  creature ;  and  he  shall  have  all 
my  services,  that  hath  bestowed  on  me  such  a  complete  righteous- 
ness, and  entitled  me  to  such  a  glorious  kingdom.  It  is  true  I  can 
do  nothing  :  even  what  I  must  do  by  his  grace,  that  must  sue  to 
him  for  his  pardon,  and  entreat  for  his  gracious  assistance  ;  but  he 
shall  have  my  whole  heart,  and  if  I  could  do  anything  for  him  I 
would.  I  shall  be  as  glad  for  the  fruits  of  his  Spirit  within  me, 
changing  my  nature,  as  I  would  be  of  the  effects  of  his  pardoning 
grace.  O  Lord  Jesus,  I  believe  thou  art  able  to  take  away  my 
sin,  and  I  believe  thou  art  willing  ;  and  I  am  willing  to  part  with 
them  all.  I  am  able  to  hold  out  no  longer.  I  am  resolved  to  cast 
myself  upon  thee.  I  remember  that  of  Hosea  xiv.  1 — 4. 
Thou  hast  given  it  under  thine  own  hand,  that  those  that  come  to 
thee,  thou  wilt  in  no  wise  cast  out ;  and  hast  made  a  general  invi- 
tation, call,  and  command  :  Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  are  weary 
and  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest. 


298  THE    RECORDS 

If  I  be  not  within  the  compass  of  the  qualifications,  let  me  be 
rejected.  If  I  be  not  as  weary  of  my  sins,  the  guilt  and  accusa- 
tions, charge  and  clamour  of  them,  of  the  pollution  and  defilement 
of  them,  as  ever  porter  was  of  his  burden — and  had  not  rather 
have  a  rock,  a  mountain,  fall  on  me,  than  the  effects  of  sin — had 
not  rather  have  God  love  me,  and  sanctify  my  nature,  than  enjoy 
the  greatest  prosperity  in  the  world — then  let  me  be  refused.  But 
if  I  be  a  poor,  heavy-laden  soul,  such  an  one  as  the  call  intends, 
then  take  off  my  burden,  and  put  thy  yoke  upon  me,  and  place  me 
amongst  thy  servants  in  thy  house,  that  I  may  be  maintained  and 
instructed  by  thee,  and  serve  thee  without  fear  and  slavishness,  in 
holiness  and  righteousness  all  my  days,  &c.  Faithful  is  he  that 
hath  promised,  who  also  will  do  it. 

What  a  sweet  rest,  and  most  refreshing  repose,  is  the  pardon  of 
sin,  and  the  love  of  Christ,  to  such  a  soul :  —  a  sanctuary,  a  harbour, 
a  shadowy  rock  in  a  weary  land :  more  acceptable  than  the  joy  of 
harvest,  the  joy  of  a  woman  delivered,  the  joy  of  the  bridegroom 
and  the  bride,  or  the  joj-  of  them  that  divide  the  spoil ;  all  which 
the  scripture  makes  mention  of.  But  none  like  the  joy  of  meeting 
with  Christ,  as  a  mediator,  an  advocate,  a  propitiation  through 
faith  in  his  blood.  Now  common  faith  sees  no  such  preciousness 
in  Christ,  does  not  care  to  be  beholden  unto  him,  or  as  little  as  may 
be  :  where  it  cannot  discharge,  it  would  be  thankful  for  Christ  to 
pay,  and  where  it  comes  short,  that  Christ  would  make  up  the 
defects  ;  but  it  sees  no  such  need  of,  or  preciousness  in  the  death, 
and  sufferings,  and  resurrection  of  Christ.  Do  this  and  live,  it 
approves  of  much  better  than,  Believe,  and  bo  saved. 

Let  me  add  to  this  head,  that  true  faith  considers  the  price  of  it, 
and  what  it  cost.  The  price  is  set  down,  Eph.  i.  19,  20;  which 
text  is  often  weighed  by  a  believing  soul,  that  admires  at  that 
power  that  wrought  faith  in  it.  Whereas  ;i  counterfeit  and  com- 
mon faith  cost  but  little.  Education,  converse,  example,  custom, 
and  common  convictions  contributed  to  the  breeding  of  it;  which, 
therefore,  will  not  endure  in  a  lime  of  sharp  persecution.  Com- 
mon faith  sees  it  no  such  hard  matter  to  be  a  believer.  True  faith 
-<•<■-  an  almighty  power,  as  the  author  and  begetter  of  it. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  299 

2.  The  preciousness  of  faith  may  be  considered,  as  it  makes 
conscience  precious.  How  is  it  that  the  dear  purchase  of  pardon 
and  reconciliation  by  Christ,  the  deep  humiliations,  contritions,  and 
sorrows  for  sins,  by  repentance,  make  a  true  believer  exceeding 
tender  of  sinning  asrainst  God  ?  If  one  that  hath  this  true  faith 
might  have  a  whole  kingdom  given  him  for  the  committing  of 
one  sin,  as  the  telling  of  a  lie,  the  omitting  of  a  duty,  knowingly, 
wittingly,  and  wilfully,  he  would  scorn  the  motion.  Precious 
faith  makes  sin  rare  to  a  believer  ;  and  to  see  sin  most  vile,  makes 
faith  most  precious,  because  it  keeps  a  due  distance  between  the 
precious  and  the  vile. 

Now  common  and  counterfeit  faith  makes  no  such  distinction, 
no  such  separation  ;  knows  no  such  awe  and  tenderness  ;  admits 
of  the  prevalency  of  corruption  with  the  eminency  of  privileges, 
the  power  of  ungodliness  with  the  form  of  godliness  ;  sees  no  such 
unhandsomeness,  nor  uncomeliness,  to  have  the  money-changers 
in  the  temple  ;  does  not  think  that  there  is  such  need  of  that  strict- 
ness, niceness,  and  circumspection  amongst  believers.  This  creed- 
faith,  baptism-faith,  supper-faith — in  a  word,  this  tradition,  pro- 
fession, conviction-faith,  that  is  a  stranger  to  this  preciousness  and 
power,  will  in  case  make  no  great  matter  of  handling  and  taking 
up  a  sin,  or  letting  alone  or  letting  fall  a  duty,  if  men  see  not  or 
say  nothing.  Outward  profession  and  performances  are  its  paint : 
natural  conscience,  credit,  interest,  custom,  or  company  are  its 
pulleys. 

True  faith  dares  not  commit  a  secret  sin,  and  suspects  itself  in  a 
public  duty ;  will  choose  the  greatest  affliction,  rather  than  the  least 
sin ;  does  not  aggravate  the  suffering  to  be  undergone,  and  ex- 
tenuate the  obligation  to  the  duty  to  be  performed  ;  nor  minces  to 
an  indifferency  the  unlawfulness  of  the  thing  to  be  complied  with, 
that  trouble  may  be  avoided  ;  but  speaks  on  this  wise  : — Let  me 
not  offend  God  ;  let  me  keep  a  good  conscience  whatever  I  endure; 
a  wounded  conscience  will  be  a  thousand  times  a  greater  torment 
to  me,  than  any  persecutor  can  inflict  upon  me ;  I  will  keep  the 
path  of  duty,  and  I  dare  trust  God  with  the  issue ;  he  never  for- 
sakes those  that  put  their  trust  and  confidence  in  him ;  my  work 


300  THE    RECORDS 

is  to  believe  and  wait,  and  not  to  consult  flesh  and  blood,  and 
mingle  my  carnal  reason  and  interest  with  my  profession,  to  go  no 
further  in  religion  than  I  can  do  it  safely,  and  without  much 
damage  to  myself; — which  is  the  guise  and  genius  of  the  formal 
faith,  &c. 

I  should  now  proceed  to  a  third  account  of  the  preciousness  of 
this  true  faith,  with  reference  to  communion  and  conversation,  and 
its  preciousness  and  usefulness  therein.  That  God  may  give  you 
more  light  into  the  mystery  of  faith,  is  the  prayer  of  your  well- 
wisher  to  your  faith  and  joy, 

Thomas  Hardcastlr. 

Sir  Robert  Cann,  the  mayor,  being  sorely  troubled  he 
should  be,  as  it  were,  at  the  command  of  Hellier,  went  away 
to  London,  on  the  27th  inst. 

The  eleventh  Lord's  day,  being  31st  October,  1675,  we  were 
in  peace,  and  had  no  disturbance ;  nor  any  of  the  rest  of  the 
meetings.  Praise  be  to  the  Lord!  The  reason  was,  Hellier 
was  gone  to  his  father's,  who  lived  about  three  miles  from  the 
city,  to  begin  his  Curst-Mas  [Cursenmas  or  Christmas], 

The  twelfth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

These  for  my  truly  beloved  friends,  the  members   and  hearers  of 
the  congregation  meeting  in  Broadrnead,  Bristol. 

Beloved  Friends, — I  am  now  handling  the  subject  of  faith's 
preciousness,  and  shall,  by  the  Lord's  blessing,  at  this  time 
endeavour  to  open  that  excellency  of  it,  in  respect  of  a  double 
influence  it  hath, 

I.  Upon  our  communion  with  God ;  and  II.  Upon  our  conver- 
sation in  the  world.  In  regard  of  both  which,  it  wonderfully 
differences  itself  from  a  formal,  false,  counterfeit,  and  common 
faith. 

I.    First  then,  as  to  our  communion  with  God. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  301 

1.  It  is  the  work  of  true  faith  to  put  iuto  us  a  willingness  and  a 
desire  to  come  to  God,  and  to  meet  with  him ;  and  that,  notwith- 
standing, I.  Manifold  infirmities.  Guilt  makes  a  hypocrite  hide 
and  fly;  faith  makes  a  true  believer  return  and  acknowledge. 
Whose  language  runs  on  this  wise:— Father,  though  I  have  dis- 
pleased thee,  and  sinned  grievously  against  thee,  have  played  fast 
and  loose  with  thee,  I  cannot  live  without  seeing  thee,  and  enjoying 
thy  presence ;  let  me  not  want  thy  countenance,  though  I  have  thy 
correction  with  it ;  let  me  have  the  smiles  of  thy  face,  though  T 
feel  the  smitings  of  thy  hand  ;  I  can  be  content  with  that  whole 
text,  Ps.  Ixxxix.  30 — 34;  I  make  my  appeal  from  thy  justice  to 
thy  mercy ;  I  am  willing  thou  shouldst  see  how  vile  I  am,  but  I 
will  not  go  out  of  thy  service  ;  in  thy  house  I  will  remain,  though 
it  be  but  as  a  hired  servant 

This  true  faith  leads  a  soul  unto  God,  and  will  not  leave  it  short 
of  him.  Duties,  sermons,  meetings,  and  ministers  will  not  serve, 
without  some  secret  and  powerful  touch  of  omnipotent  grace  and 
free  love ;  so  that  the  soul  can  say,  my  heart  was  melted,  convinced, 
instructed,  comforted,  strongly  drawn  and  overcome,  by  the  Spirit 
of  God. 

II.  Notwithstanding  great  troubles,  faith  leads  the  soul  to  God. 
A  bewildered  saint,  that  has  lain  among  the  pots,  and  is  all  sullied 
and  rusted  with  temptation  and  tribulation,  yet  makes  towards 
God  and  his  presence.  Poor  desolate  Job,  that  sat  in  ashes,  with 
a  potsherd  to  scrape  himself  withal,  Job  ii.  7,  8,  yet,  in  this  con- 
dition, cries  out,  Job  xxiii.  3,  Oh  that  I  knew  where  I  might  find 
him  !  that  I  might  come  even  to  his  seat  !  &c.  How  comes  such 
a  dunghill  creature  to  presume  to  come  so  near  God's  seat  ?  Why 
it  is  his  faith ;  and  God  likes  it,  Job  xix.  "25— 27.  But  coun- 
terfeit faith  leaves  a  man  destitute,  and  forlorn  in  distress ;  or, 
leads  him  to  carnal  helps,  or  sinful  shiftings,  Job  xiii.  16  :  for  an 
hypocrite  shall  not  come  before  him. 

2.  True  faith  not  only  makes  the  soul  willing  to  come  to  God,  but 
also  gives  him  a  true  representation  of  God,  what  he  is,  and  that 
he  is  a  rewarder,  Heb.  xi.  6.  Faith  discovers  to  the  soul  the  ex- 
cellent attributes  of  God,  his  greatness, power,  faithfulness,  wisdom, 


302  THE    RECORDS 

goodness,  and  bounty;  and  works  suitable  impressions  from  thence 
upon  the  heart.  So  that  I  know  no  better  a  description  of  a  true 
believer,  both  as  to  his  state  and  blessedness,  than  what  you  have 
in  a  verv  few  words,  Ps.  xxxiii.  18.  Pray  consider  it.  A  true 
believer  is  one  that  fears  God,  and  hopes  in  his  mercy.  If  he  did 
only  fear,  he  would  be  led  into  despair ;  if  he  did  barely  hope,  it 
would  not  be  faith,  but  presumption  and  vain  confidence.  And 
mark  his  happy  condition,  The  eye  of  the  Lord  is  upon  hbn.  And 
what  would  you  have  more  ?  His  heart,  his  love,  his  care,  and 
compassion  are  all  engaged  for  him.  Now  a  counterfeit  faith  has 
no  such  representations  of  God,  nor  impressions  from  God  ;  but  in 
duties  and  ordinances,  leaves  the  soul  in  a  dull,  confused,  general 
frame,  without  any  discovery,  awe,  or  taste  of  God :  without  any 
refreshing  influence  or  efficacy,  persuasion  or  alteration.  The 
exterior  faculties,  it  may  be,  may  be  entertained,  as  the  fancy  and 
the  memory,  by  gifts  or  expressions,  its  own  or  others,  in  public. 
The  affection  may  be,  perhaps,  a  little  moved,  and  the  natural  con- 
science stirred,  though  both  but  slightly  and  transiently.  But  the 
heart  is  not  delighted  and  established  in  truth  and  goodness  ;  the 
will  not  bowed  and  inclined  more  to  God,  and  more  spiritual,  and 
resolved  in  and  for  his  ways  and  worship,  and  all  manner  of  holy 
conversation,  godliness,  and  growth  in  grace.  As  some  think 
there  is  no  God,  who  do  not  only  want  faith,  but  are  unreasonable 
men,  so  there  are  some  who  profess  the  true  God,  that  yet  have 
him  not  in  all  their  thoughts.  Or  if  they  think  of  him,  conceive 
unsuitably  and  unworthily  of  him,  and  think  that  he  is  altogether 
such  an  one  as  themselves,  and  never  can  perform  acceptable,  right 
service  to  him.     But, 

II.  True  faith  is  precious,  with  reference  to  its  usefulness  about 
our  conversations  in  the  world,  which  hereby  are  furnished  with 
the  excellent  properties  of  being, 

1.  Honest  and  unblameable.  True  faith  by  giving  us  (as  it  is 
the  evidence  of  things  not  seen)  a  discovery  of  the  world  to  come, 
and  the  duration  of  it,  keeps  us  from  being  ensnared,  and  entangled, 
and  being  made  vain,  by  this  present  evil  world:  from  which  our 
Lord  Jesus,  who  is  the  object,  author,  and  finisher  of  our  faith, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  303 

hath  delivered  us  ;  see  Gal.  i.  4  ;  Titus  ii.  12 — 14;  1  Pet.  i.  18. 
True  faith  gives  to  believers  victory  over  the  world,  1  John  v.  4 ; 
and  carries  them  honestly  through  all  its  temptations  and  snares, 
and  many  foolish  and  hurtful  lusts,  which  drown  men  in  perdition 
and  destruction,  1  Tim.  vi.  9. 

2.  Hereby  the  soul  becomes  contented,  without  covetousness 
and  perplexing  carefulness.  Faith  takes  hold  of  that  word  of 
promise,  Heb.  xiii.  5,  /  will  never  leave  thee,  nor  forsake  thee  ; 
and  thus  the  cure  is  wrought.  When  straits  and  difficulties,  and 
sharp,  trying  providences,  present  themselves,  and  would  procure 
discouragement,  true  faith  answers  them,  removes  and  banishes 
them  all,  by  arguing  on  this  wise : — What,  have  I  trusted  God 
for  the  eternal  salvation  of  my  soul,  and  shall  not  I  trust  him 
with  my  body,  my  family,  my  children  ?  Can  he  give  a  king- 
dom, and  cannot  he  give  crumbs  ?  He  that  feeds  ravens  will  not 
famish  his  children.  He  never  yet  did  suffer  me  to  hunger,  and 
what  reason  have  I  to  think  that  he  will  [now]  ?  He  has  main- 
tained me  so  many  years,  and  helped  me  through  all  my  straits, 
and  will  do  it  for  the  future.  Will  my  carking  and  caring  do 
any  good  ?  My  believing,  will ;  but  my  distrust  will  do  a  great 
deal  of  harm.  Can  I  believe  for  a  share  in  his  peculiar  love, 
and  doubt  of  a  part  in  his  common  providence  ?  He  that  saves 
my  soul  from  hell  will  save  my  body  from  famine,  unless  it 
be  thereby  to  bring  me  to  heaven.  Depart  from  me,  then,  all  ye 
disquieting  fears,  unprofitable  cares,  sinful  perplexities  :  for  I 
have  cast  my  burden  upon  the  Lord.  I  have  committed  the  care 
of  me  and  mine  to  him ;  and  I  know  he  will  take  care  of  me. 
But  a  false  faith  will  suffer  a  man  to  die  of  a  worldly  sorrow, 
and  cannot  help  him.  It  bears  the  name  'in  prosperity,  but  will 
not  bear  up  the  man  in  adversity. 

3.  This  true  faith  renders  the  soul  beneficial  and  profitable. 
Faith  makes  the  soul  very  generous  ;  willing  and  desirous  to  do 
good  to  all;  would  have  every  soul  saved,  and  converted,  and 
healed,  and  every  back  clothed,  and  belly  filled;  and  wishes  that 
it  could  but  speak,  or  do,  that  which  might  attain  all  these  ends. 
How  does   a  believer  travail  for  the  conversion  of  sinners,  of 


304  THE    RECORDS 

relations  !  How  glad,  if  any  token  of  repenting  and  return- 
ing! But  a  common  faith  leaves  a  man  in  a  careless  frame, 
and  unconcerned  posture,  about  the  danger  and  sufferings  that 
the  souls  and  bodies  of  others  are  in,  and  under  ;  unless  it  be, 
that  ambition,  honour,  and  applause  do  stir  up,  and  make  a  man 
a  little  active  this  way  for  a  season.  And  thus  you  have  an 
account,  briefly,  of  faith's  preciousness,  and  thereby  of  its  dis- 
crimination from  common  professional  faith.  By  the  help  of 
your  prayers,  and  the  supply  of  the  Spirit  of  Jesus,  I  shall  pro- 
ceed in  searching  more  into  this  great  foundation  grace.  John 
iii.  14,  15,  36.  That  the  Lord  would  bestow  faith  where  it  is 
wanting,  and  give  the  increase  and  joy  of  it  where  it  is,  is  the 
fervent  prayer,  of 

Your  sincere  servant,  in  the  work  of  the  gospel, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 
8th  m.  29th  d.  1675. 


This  afternoon  of  31st  eighth  month,  the  church  agreed 
to  the  motion  of  the  other  congregations,  to  seek  for,  and 
buy  a  burying-place,  for  all  the  separatists  to  bury  their 
dead.  Brother  Ford,  deacon,  brother  King,  and  brother 
Snead,  were  desired  to  take  the  care  of  it,  jointly  with  those 
brethren  of  the  other  congregations. 

At  ditto  time,  brother  Bodenham  and  brother  Davis,  were 
desired,  upon  every  second  day,  in  the  evening,  to  gather 
together  and  record  what  affronts  and  abuses,  to  whom  and 
by  whom  they  were  done,  every  week,  at  our  meeting,  by 
the  informers  and  them  that  came  with  them.3 

At  ditto  time,  for  more  regular  keeping  of  the  door  every 
meeting,  that  some  brethren  might  not  be  burthened  by  always 
doing  it,  we  settled  three  for  every  Lord's  day,  some  within 
and  some  without,  and  so  take  turns  about,  in  all : — 

3  [These  papers  are  not  preserved.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  305 

1.  Brother  Bodenharn,  brother  Town,  brother  Hall. 

2.  Brother  Rivers,  brother  Joshua  Bryan,  brother  Jacob. 

3.  Brother  Snead,  brother  Willis,  brother  Henry  Ford. 

4.  Brother  Fry,  brother  Bland,  brother  Lewis. 

5.  Brother  Courtney,  brother  Child,  brother  Gregory. 

6.  Brother  Whitehead,  brother  Purnell,  brother  Dennis. 

The  twelfth  Lord's  day,  being  seventh,  ninth  month,  1675, 
we  had  again  great  disturbance  in  that  meeting.  When 
brother  Jennings  had  ended  his  first  prayer,  and  began  his 
sermon,  Hellier  with  his  man  comes  in,  walks  about ;  then 
departed,  having  sent  for  some  justices  of  the  peace.  We 
had,  presently  after,  another  interruption,  at  their  coming 
nigh  our  meeting,  but  they  turned  aside,  and  went  to  Mr. 
Weeks's;  and  then,  about  half  an  hour  past  ten,  Hellier, 
with  Alderman  Lawford,  then  deputy  mayor  in  the  absence 
of  Sir  Robert  Cann,  with  Alderman  Stevens,  and  two  Ser- 
jeants, with  Hellier's  brother-in-law  and  man,  came  up  into 
our  meeting,  and  commanded  us  to  depart.  Yea,  Alderman 
Lawford  commanded  us,  in  the  king's  name,  to  depart  about 
forty  times ;  but  the  people  kept  singing,  and  did  not 
depart.  Then  they  go  round  about,  searching  and  taking  of 
names,  men,  women,  and  maids,  that  they  kept  us  near 
twelve  of  the  clock,  and  then  the  people  arose  and  departed. 
In  the  afternoon  we  were  much  worse  troubled.  First, 
Hellier  comes  again,  very  quick,  before  we  had  begun,  and 
walks  about,  searching ;  then  we  began  a  psalm ;  after  that 
he  goes  down,  and  sends  away  for  Alderman  Ollive,  and  he 
walks  in  the  room  below,  where  the  younger  brethren  used 
to  exercise  every  second  day,  in  the  evening.  Then  Hellier 
would  fain  have  gone  up,  but  some  filled  the  stairs.  Where- 
upon he  pulled  and  hauled  brother  Dickason  by  the  cloak  till 
it  cracked,  and  plucked  one  woman  that  she  cried  out,  "  Will 
you  murder  me?"      He   was   violent,    and   struck   Martha 

x 


306  THE    RECORDS 

Hawkins  with  a  great  staff  that  he  had  in  his  hand,  that  had 
she  not  bent  away  her  head  when  the  stroke  was  coming,  he 
had  knocked  her  down ;  but  thereby  the  blow  came  upon  her 
arm.  And  he  brake  a  youth's  head,  and  so  got  up.  When 
that  Alderman  Ollive  came,  then  Hellier  and  Alderman 
Ollive,  with  Chappell  and  Benjamin  Buck,  officers,  Price  and 
Wilkins,  rush  up  to  the  table,  and  commanded  the  people  to 
depart,  and  forbear  singing  ;  but  they  did  not.  Then  [they] 
come  to  brother  Ellis's  seat,  and  kept  great  contending  with 
him  and  others  thereabout,  and  sent  away  sister  Fry's  bro- 
ther (a  stranger  that  came  to  [the]  city  for  cure)  to  Bridewell, 
because  when  he  told  his  name,  they  would  not  believe  him 
that  he  lived  so  far  as  the  west  country ;  and  likewise  sent 
away  brother  Thomas  Jacob,  that  kept  a  bakehouse  at  his 
house  but  a  little  without  Lawford's  Gate ;  because  he  said 
that  he  lived  there  they  would  not  believe  him,  but  sent  him 
away  to  Bridewell.  And  [then]  they  come  to  brother 
Dickason,  in  brother  Ellis's  seat;  the  alderman  takes  his 
bible  out  of  his  hand,  and  throws  it  behind  him,  as  he  was 
singing,  and  the  Alderman  Ollive  spake  revilingly  of  him, 
saying,  he  was  a  heel-maker,  and  sold  tobacco,  and  went  up 
and  down  in  Wales  preaching.  He  [brother  Dickason]  said  he 
lived  by  his  calling,  as  he  [Alderman  Ollive]  did  by  drawing- 
wine .  Whereupon  Alderman  Ollive  commands  the  officer  to 
take  brother  Dickason  away  to  Newgate.  And  after,  they 
went  about  the  room,  and  got  in  among  the  women,  uncivilly 
[going]  from  one  to  another,  taking  their  names.  Thus,  till 
near  three  of  the  clock,  they  kept  troubling  of  us ;  then 
they  departed  to  Mr.  Weeks's,  and  made  them  disperse,  and 
were  coming  to  us  a^ain.  So  that  in  the  afternoon  the 
minister  could  not  preach,  their  second  coming  being  in  his 
first  prayer,  and  they  stayed  so  long,  hauling  and  palling 
divers,  and  sending  some  to  prison,  that  when  they  departed 
the  time  was  near  spent ;   wherefore  he  concludes  with  short 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  307 

prayer  again.  And  brother  Ellis  began  and  read  some  part 
of  a  letter  from  our  pastor  to  the  people,  showing  the  nature 
of  true  faith,  and  why  faith  must  purify  the  heart ;  but  they 
coming  again,  and  the  time  being  over,  we  departed.  And 
in  the  evening,  brother  Dickason  was  brought  before  Alder- 
man Ollive.  Hellier  sware  divers  things  against  him,  but 
untrue ;  yet  he  was  sent  to  Newgate  again,  to  continue  there 
till  next  sessions,  which  would  be  about  nine  weeks  after. 
When  brother  Dickason  was  brought  before  them,  to  the 
said  house,  being  a  tavern,  there  was  the  master  of  the  house, 
Alderman  Ollive,  Hellier,  and  Alderman  Lawford,  drinking 
and  consulting  about  the  imprisoning  him.  A  great  while 
[they]  made  him  stay  without,  in  the  pavement;  then  he 
was  brought  in  before  them. 


The  thirteenth  letter  4  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

These  for  my  esteemed  friends,  the  members  and  auditors  of  the 
congregation,  meeting  in  Broadmead,  Bristol. 

9th  m.  6th  d.  (Saturday),  1675. 

Dearly  Beloved,  —  Having  already  discovered  something 
about  the  excellency  of  true  faith,  both  as  it  is  the  gift  of  God, 
and  as  it  is  called  precious  faith,  I  proceed  now  to  give  you  a 
further  account  of  the  transcendency  of  true  faith,  as  it  is  a  faith 
which  purifieth  the  heart.  This  differencing  and  distinguishing 
mark  and  character,  I  ground  upon  Acts  xv.  9.  In  prosecuting 
this  head,  I  shall,  if  the  Lord  assist,  inquire  into  two  things : — 
I.  How  faith  purifies  ;  and  II.  Why  it  purifies. 

I.  How  faith  purifies. 

1.  I  answer,  As  it  discovers  the  heart  of  a  man  to  be  his  worst, 
his  most  polluted,  his  most  vile  part,  that  let  him  be  never  so  bad 
outwardly,  he  is  much  worse  inwardly ;  and  therefore  it  uses  to 

*  [The  letter  referred  to  above.] 

x  2 


308  THE    RECORDS 

express  itself  in  such  language  as  this  : — What  a  fountain  of 
iniquity  is  there  in  my  heart !  The  seeds  of  all  sin  lodge  there  ; 
the  most  wicked  conversation  of  the  ungodly  is  not,  for  mass 
and  weight,  and  multiplied  motions  to  sin,  to  be  compared  with 
it.  I  see  more  evil  in  an  evil  heart  of  unbelief,  than  I  see  in  all 
the  evil  in  the  world,  &c.  Now  a  counterfeit  faith  may  take 
notice  of,  and  reform  a  grosser  evil  in  the  conversation,  which 
men  see  and  observe,  but  see  no  such  cause  to  complain  of  the 
heart*  It  is  a  good  heart,  and  has  good  meanings  in  it,  and  not 
an  evil  thought  to  any  one ;  Job  ix.  20,  21,  30,  31. 

2.  True  faith  discovers  an  utter  inability  and  insufficiency  in  a 
man,  of  himself,  ever  to  get  rid  of  his  corruption,  this  body  of 
sin.  All  the  prayers  and  tears,  the  humiliations  and  repentings, 
in  the  world,  cannot  wash  away  the  defilement  of  one  heart. 
Nothing  but  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ  can  cleanse  us  from  all 
sin.  Now  a  common  faith  sees  no  such  need  of  craving  foreign 
aid  and  assistance  in  this  matter.  Have  not  men  power  over 
themselves?  and  are  not  their  wills  free?  cannot  they  resolve 
strongly,  and  rescue  themselves  from'  these  snares  and  fetters  ? 
Alas,  the  weakness  of  nature,  the  wiles  of  sin,  the  depths  of 
Satan,  the  power  of  temptation,  were  never  yet  known  where 
there  are  such  apprehensions.  We  think  to  bind  sin  by  our  own 
cords,  as  they  bound  Sampson ;  but  when  the  strength  of  sin 
appears,  those  cords  will  become  as  flax,  burned  with  fire ;  Judges 
xv.  14. 

3.  True  faith  brings  the  soul  to  plead  with  God,  about  the 
efficacy  of*  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ  to  be  applied  unto  it,  for  the 
subduing  of  corruption,  quenching  sinful  motions,  correcting  the 
rising  and  stirring  of  corruption,  and  the  bubbling-up  of  iniquity; 
and  argues  the  case  with  him,  with  much  earnestness,  and  on  this 
wise : — 

Lord,  by  the  light  of  thy  law  and  gospel,  I  have  found  my 
heart,  upon  search,  to  be  a  very  sink  and  puddle  of  sin.  What 
abundance  of  vain  thoughts  lodge  within  me  !  how  is  my  soul  con- 
tinually upon  a  rack  with  perpetual  hurryings  and  contrary 
motions !  what  a  great  inclination  and  proneness  to  evil !  what  a 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST  309 

backwardness  to  every  thing  that  is  good !  what  little  delight  in 
God  !  how  little  relish,  taste,  and  savour  of  the  things  of  God ! 
how  full  of  the  world  am  I  !  how  natural  is  it  to  me  to  think  of 
that!  how  hard  do  I  find  [it]  to  perform  a  duty  without  disturb- 
ance, and  unseasonable  distractions  of  a  vain,  worldly,  and  confused 
spirit !  and  when  I  would  do  good,  evil  is  present  with  me  ! 
Lord,  thus  it  is  with  me,  and  a  great  deal  worse ;  and  I  cannot 
tell  how  to  help  it.  But  I  come  to  thee,  and  am  desirous  that 
thou  shouldst  see  how  bad  it  is  with  me.  Thou  canst  set  all  right 
and  mend  all.  Thou  canst  create  in  me  a  clean  heart.  Thou 
canst  give  me  such  a  heart  as  thou  wilt  accept  of.  Lord,  break  it, 
soften  it,  melt  it,  compose  it ;  make  it  sound,  sincere,  believing, 
watchful :  for  it  is  such  a  heart  at  present  that  I  cannot  honour 
thee,  nor  come  before  thee  with  it,  nor  get  any  peace  or  comfort  to 
abide  in  it. 

Thus  true  faith  puts  the  heart  nakedly  into  God's  hands,  and  he 
washes  it  in  the  blood  of  his  Son,  and  returns  it  a  new,  broken, 
tender,  clean,  and  penitent  heart ;  writes  his  law  in  it,  according 
to  the  tenor  of  the  new  covenant :  see  Ezek.  xvi.  62,  63.  A  formal 
faith  washes  the  heart  over  with  a  slight  humiliation,  and  a  super- 
ficial performance  of  duties ;  with  an  outward  profession,  and 
enjoyment  of  privileges  and  things  that  will  do :  though  it  still 
remains  a  dead,  rotten,  and  deceitful  heart. 

4.  True  faith  keeps  the  heart  under  the  eye  and  omniscience  of 
God,  who  is  the  searcher  of  the  hearts  and  trier  of  the  reins  5  so 
that  the  soul  still  sees  him  that  is  invisible,  and  stands  more  in  awe 
of  his  observation  and  notice,  than  if  all  the  eyes  of  men  and  angels 
were  upon  him. 

Faith  preserves  the  heart  pure,  by  that  fear  it  puts  into  it,  and 
keeps  in  it.  When  a  man  goes  out  or  comes  in,  lies  down  or  rises 
up,  goes  about  the  performance  of  any  duty,  faith  says  to  the  soul, 
Take  heed  to  thyself,  the  eye  of  the  great  and  holy  God  is  upon 
thee ;  take  heed  to  thy  actions  and  words,  and  especially  to  thy 
thoughts,  purposes,  designs,  aims,  and  ends.  God  can  spy  a  fault 
in  the  intention,  when  the  most  observing  men  can  find  none  in  the 
action.     Let  not  a  deceived  heart  lead  thee  aside,  and  there  prove 


310  THE    RECORDS 

a  lie  in  thy  right  hand.  Now  a  counterfeit  faith  admits  of  forget- 
fulness  of  God.  If  things  appear  well  before  men,  the  heart  is 
neglected,  lies  like  the  field  of  the  sluggard,  and  becomes  a  re- 
ceptacle and  lodging  for  all  sorts  of  unclean,  vain,  and  corrupt 
imaginations. 

II.  Why  doth  faith  thus  purify  the  heart? 

Ans.  1.  Because  none  but  the  pure  in  heart  can  see  God;  and 
it  is  the  design  of  faith  to  bring  the  soul  to  communion  with  God, 
and  the  enjoyment  of  him.  Faith  helps  the  soul  to  see  God  as 
present,  through  the  glasses  of  ordinances,  providences,  and  crea- 
tures. Faith  makes  the  glass  as  clear,  and  bright,  and  transparent 
as  may  be ;  and  endeavours  to  keep  it  from  being  darkened  and 
clouded  by  formality,  customariness,  selfishness,  and  security.  And 
further,  when  God  is  about  to  receive  the  soul  to  a  perfect  and 
immediate  fruition  of  himself  without  these  glass  mediums,  when 
there  will  be  no  further  occasion  for  faith,  it  willingly  and  gladly 
takes  its  leave  of  the  soul,  and  is  content  to  be  annihilated,  now 
that  it  has  helped  the  soul  to  the  full  enjoyment  of  the  best  Being. 

2.  Faith  purifies  the  heart,  to  show  the  excellency  of  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  gospel  above  that  of  the  law,  which  was  concerned 
so  much  about  external  and  ceremonial  observances.  Faith  is  for 
promoting  spiritual  worship,  because  God  is  a  Spirit ;  and  they 
that  worship  him  must  worship  him  in  spirit  and  in  truth,  not  in 
form  and  shadow.  The  great  commandment  is  to  love  the  Lord 
with  all  our  strength,  and  might,  and  understanding.  Now,  all 
that  I  shall  add  at  present  is  this,  that  we  should  labour  more  after 
this  heart-purifying  work  of  faith. 

1.  A  sincere  heart  is  the  highest  throne  God  has  upon  earth. 
All  legal  sacrifices,  all  gospel  performances,  cannot  set  him  half 
so  high. 

2.  A  sincere  heart  is  the  best  sanctuary  a  soul  can  find,  in  time 
of  distress  and  difficulty,  and  in  a  day  of  death  :  Isa.  xxxviii.  3 ; 
2  Cor.  i.  12.  The  leaky  ship  looks  as  well  as  the  sound  one  in  a 
calm,  but  sinks  in  a  storm. 

3.  A  pure  holy  heart  is  always  ready  for  service.  What  is  the 
reason  that  David  could  lay  his  heart  was  fixed,  and  doubles  the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  311 

expression,  to  show  the  certainty  of  it  ?  Why,  he  gives  a  ready 
account  of  it,  in  his  own  words,  Ps.  xviii.  23  :  /  was  also  upright 
before  him,  and  I  kept  myself  from  my  own  iniquity.  He  did  not 
regard  iniquity  in  his  heart.  Sin  allowed  is  like  weights  of  lead 
hung  upon  the  wings  of  the  soul,  that  clog  and  fetter  it,  so  that  it 
cannot  act  freely  for  God.  To  encourage  you  in  this  great  work 
of  getting  a  pure  heart,  take  notice  of  this  one  particular: — That 
the  Lord  is  very  willing  to  hearken  to  a  soul,  when  it  comes  to 
deal  with  him  about  heart  work.  His  delight  is  there ;  he  does 
not  say,  My  son,  give  me  thy  good  heart,  hut  give  me  thy  heart ;  let 
me  have  it  brought  to  me  sincerely,  such  as  it  is,  and  I  will  make 
it  for  myself.  I  shall  conclude  with  this  : — Whilst  you  are  so 
eminently  confessing  Christ  with  your  mouths,  and  bearing  testi- 
mony to  his  worship  and  ways,  look  to  your  believing  with  your 
heart,  that  it  may  not  come  under  decay  and  diminution.  That 
your  faith,  courage,  and  constancy  may  abound  yet  more  and  more, 
is  the  true  desire  and  hearty  prayer  of 

Your  servant  and  fellow-sufferer  in  and  for  the  gospel, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 


The  13th  Lord's  day,  being  the  14th  day  of  the  9th  month, 
1675,  we  had  again  great  trouble  in  the  morning  :  for  Hellier, 
the  day  before,  had  got  one  of  the  aldermen,  Sir  Robert 
Yeamans,  a  great  wine  drinker,  to  the  Three  Tuns  tavern,  in 
Corn  Street,  where  Alderman  Ollive  dwelt :  there  they  were 
most  part  of  the  afternoon,  filling  themselves,  and  preparing 
who  should  give  us  disturbance  the  next  day.  Sir  Robert 
Yeamans  is  engaged.  Hellier,  as  his  manner  was,  writes  a 
warrant,  and  gets  said  Sir  Robert  to  sign  it,  and  sends  it  to  the 
chief  constable  of  James's  ward,  commanding  him,  and  all  the 
constables,  with  the  overseers  of  the  poor,  to  be  ready  to 
attend  him  on  the  morrow  morning  at  Hellier's  house,  by 
eight  of  the  clock,  to  suppress  the  meetings  in  the  said  ward, 
of  which  he  is  certified  there  will  be  several  by  the  church- 


312  THE    RECORDS 

wardens  of  James's  (that  is  Hellier),  as  they  shall  answer  it  at 
their  peril.  Thus  having  issued  out  their  summons,  they  con- 
tinue drinking,  till  Hellier  was  by  two  persons  led  home 
drunk  that  evening,  being  the  13th  day  of  9th  month. 

The  next  morning,  being  the  Lord's  day,  accordingly,  some- 
what after  eight  of  the  clock,  Sir  Robert  Yeamans,  with 
Hellier  and  the  constables,  with  two  Serjeants,  George  Wil- 

kins  and ,  came  to  the  meeting,  and  not  about  half 

the  people  come.  They  keep  the  doors,  and  will  let  no  more 
go  in,  and  coming  up  command  us  to  depart.  But  brother 
Jennings,  who  was  to  speak,  having  not  begun  withdrew  into 
another  part  of  the  house ;  because  the  last  [Lord's]  day  they 
having  taken  his  name,  they  came  after  to  learn  that  he  did 
use  to  preach :  whereupon  we  understood  Hellier  had  got  a 
warrant  for  him,  as  he  had  for  brother  Terrill  another  new 
warrant,  as  soon  as  Sir  Robert  Cann,  the  mayor,  was  gone  out 
of  town,  signed  by  old  Lawford,  deputy-mayor ;  signed  the 
29th  October  last. 

So  care  being  taken  that  brother  Jennings,  for  whom  they 
had  a  warrant,  might  not  be  taken,  the  people  as  usual  fall  a 
singing.  Hellier  looks  very  wistfully  in  the  place  where 
brother  Jennings  last  day  sat ;  but  not  finding  him,  commands 
the  people  to  depart,  and  also  Sir  Robert.  But  the  people 
not  obeying,  Sir  Robert  commands  one  of  the  Serjeants* 
Wilkins,  to  make  proclamation :  who  did  accordingly,  after 
he  had  cried  O  yes,  three  times ;  and  yet  the  people  [would] 
not  depart.  Then  Sir  Robert  Yeamans  commands  brother 
Ellis,  in  particular,  to  be  gone,  and  because  [he  would]  not  so 
speedily,  commands  the  Serjeants  to  pull  him  out :  then  he 
came.  Sir  Robert  said  he  would  send  brother  Ellis  to  New- 
gate :  who  told  him  he  might  use  his  pleasure.  But  at  that 
time  he  did  not,  after  he  had  to  Hellier  but  said,  brother 
Ellis  and  Mr.  Sam.  Clarke  must  find  sureties  to  appear  to- 
morrow morning  at  the  Tolzey .   Brother  Ellis  said  he  would  be 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  313 

surety  for  Mr.  Clarke,  and  Mr.  Clarke  should  be  surety  for 
him.  And  the  alderman  turning  towards  Hellier,  he  said  that 
should  serve,  and  so  they  were  let  go.  And  also  brother 
Ford,  brother  Snead,  and  Mr.  Hill  were  obliged  to  answer  the 
morrow.  But  Hellier  espying  a  countryman,  that  was  a 
stranger,  at  the  meeting,  told  Sir  Robert ;  and  him  they  sent 
away  to  Bridewell,  and  kept  him  there  till  next  morning.  The 
man  lived  near  Gloucester,  kin  to  brother  Bodenham,  that 
came  to  town  about  some  business  he  had  here.  Thus  they 
used  strangers  and  us.  And  then  they  forced  the  rest  of  the 
people  away,  with  many  threats  from  Sir  Robert,  that  if  he 
caught  any  of  them  there  in  the  afternoon,  what  he  would  do 
to  them,  and  charged  the  constables  to  stay  at  the  doors,  and 
keep  us  out  in  the  afternoon.  But  after  Hellier  and  Sir 
Robert  were  gone,  the  constable  went  away  to  dinner  also, 
and  thereby  we  got  into  the  meeting,  about  twelve  of  the 
clock,  and  were  quiet  all  the  afternoon.  Praise  be  to  the 
Lord. 

The  fourteenth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 
To  the  congregation  meeting  in  Broadmead,  Bristol. 

9th  month,  12th  day,  1675. 

Beloved  Friends, — The  consideration  of  your  continual  suffer- 
ings, and  great  constancy  under  them,  doth  at  once  affect  me  with 
joy  and  trouble  ;  but  with  more  joy  than  trouble,  because  the  Lord 
gets  honour,  the  gospel  advantage,  and  the  Lord  is  preparing  for 
you  an  exceeding  great  reward.  Read  Matt.  v.  10 — 12 ;  Jas.  i. 
2 — 4 ;  and  1  Pet.  i.  5 — 9,  and  labour  to  believe  these  three 
texts. 

I  shall  now  proceed  to  another  character  of  true  faith,  and 
ground  it  upon  Eph.  vi.  16.  It  is  a  shield  in  time  of  danger,  when 
the  darts  of  the  wicked  are  flying  abroad.  I.  There  are  the  darts  of 
Satan,  the  wicked  one,  which  he  throws  unto  the  conscience,  and 


314  THE    RECORDS 

which  are  fiery.  Such  are  his  temptations  to  blasphemy,  strange 
thoughts  of  God,  and  dismal  conclusions  against  a  man's  self.  And 
these  are  called  fiery,  because  they  are  scorching,  tormenting,  and 
affrighting.  Now  this  true  faith  quenches  these,  as  it  discovers 
God  to  the  soul  in  his  purity,  majesty,  power,  justice ;  and  in 
Jesus  Christ,  as  a  God  that  pardons  iniquity,  transgression,  and 
sin :  of  a  merciful  nature,  that  can  and  will  consider  our  frame, 
and  knows  that  we  are  but  dust,  and  who  has  infinitely  more 
bowels  of  compassion  in  him  than  all  the  men  of  the  world. 

II.  Again,  there  are  the  darts  of  wTicked  men,  which  are  the  in- 
struments of  the  wicked  one.  And  these  darts  are  bitter  words, 
base  reflections,  vile  reproaches,  lying  accusations,  cruel  mockings, 
cunning  insinuations,  violent  spoil,  &c.  And  these  are  called  fiery, 
because  there  is  such  red-hot  malice  in  them ;  because  they  are 
managed  with  such  earnestness  and  violence ;  and  because  they 
are  apt,  if  the  saints  do  not  watch,  to  provoke,  and  fret,  and  cause 
some  inflammation  of  spirit.  For  so  unreasonable  and  inhuman  is 
their  rage,  that  flesh  and  blood  cannot,  will  not  bear  it,  unless  it  be 
clinrined  and  overruled.  Now  it  is  the  work  of  faith  to  quench 
these  darts,  and  keep  them  from  setting  all  on  fire ;  which  it  does 
effect, 

1.  By  persuading  the  soul  that  these  things  are  permitted  and 
limited  by  the  Lord,  and  not  a  tongue  nor  hand  could  move  if  the 
Lord  did  not  suffer  it ;  and  are  purely  under  his  check  and  govern- 
ment, and  can  proceed  no  further  than  he  pleases.  He  is  higher 
than  the  highest,  and  controls  the  fiercest  persecutors  as  he 
pleases. 

2.  That  it  is  not  a  sign  that  God  is  well  pleased  with  the  wicked, 
or  altogether  displeased  with  his  people;  but  is  truly  angry  with 
what  the  ungodly  do,  and  truly  afflicted  in  his  disciples'  afflictions 
and  sufferings.  He  loves  his  people  when  they  are  among  the 
pots :  when  under  the  stairs :  when  in  the  clefts  of  the  rocks : 
when  tossed,  turmoiled,  and  tormented  by  the  furious  assaults  of 
persecutors  ;  and  is  much  delighted  and  refreshed  to  behold  their 
faith  and  patience,  courage  and  constancy. 

•3.   Faith  presents  the  soul  with  the  view  of  the  death  and  suffer- 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  315 

ings  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  the  captain  of  our  salvation,  who  was  made 
perfect  by  sufferings ;  how  he  was  mocked,  buffetted,  spit  upon, 
crowned  with  thorns,  led  to  judgment  and  prison,  and  put  to  a 
most  shameful,  painful,  and  cursed  death.  Oh  !  says  the  believing 
soul,  has  my  Saviour  suffered  so  much  for  me,  and  shall  not  I 
follow  him,  when  he  bids  me  ?  Oh,  blessed  reproach  for  his  sake ! 
What  an  honour  has  he  put  upon  me,  that  I  should  be  spoiled, 
and  abused,  and  imprisoned  for  his  cause  !  how  glorious  are  these 
marks  of  the  Lord  Jesus !  Has  the  Master  need  of  my  ass  ? 
[Matt.  xxi.  2,  3,]  he  shall  have  it  with  all  my  heart,  And  blessed 
be  his  name,  that  counts  me  worthy  of  such  a  privilege.  Oh, 
sweet  and  precious  cross  !  Lovely  Jesus  !  what  glory  did  he  leave 
for  me,  to  take  my  sinful  infirm  nature  upon  him  !  He  made  him- 
self of  no  reputation,  and  took  upon  him  the  form  of  a  servant,  who 
thought  it  no  robbery  to  be  equal  with  God.  And  I,  a  poor  vile 
wretch,  that  am  made  of  the  same  mould  with  the  worms,  and 
dust,  and  have  a  nature  as  vile  as  the  vilest,  and  cannot  say  that  I 
am  worth  a  crumb  of  bread,  or  drop  of  water, — shall  I  think  it 
hard  to  suffer  a  little  loss,  to  bear  a  little  reproach,  to  endure  a 
little  hardship?  The  consideration  of  Christ's  sufferings  does 
wonderfully  melt  the  heart  of  a  true  believer,  into  a  rejoicing  over 
his  cross,  and  a  readiness  and  resolution  of  mind  to  follow  him, 
through  thick  and  thin,  against  all  opposition  and  contradiction  of 
sinners  ;  see  Heb.  xii.  1 — 4,  and  so  on  to  the  end  of  the  13th 
verse. 

4.  Faith  sets  before  the  soul  the  persecutors  as  a  company  of 
dying  men,  poor  creatures  that  in  a  very  few  days  will  have  their 
bodies  in  the  grave,  and  their  souls  in  everlasting  flames,  if  the  case 
be  not  altered  with  them ;  the  vengeance  of  God  hanging;  over 
their  heads,  ready  to  bury  them  in  eternal  torments  every  moment. 
Oh,  poor  wretches,  miserable  souls  !  Pity  them,  pity  them.  Their 
disturbing  you  will  quickly  be  over,  but  the  wrath  of  God  will  for 
evermore  torment  them. 

5.  True  faith  gives  the  soul  a  clear  view  of  the  glory  to  come, 
reigning  with  Christ,  that  exceeding  and  eternal  weight  of  glory, 
for  a  few,  light,  momentary  afflictions.     The  clouds  are  hastening 


316  THE    RECORDS 

away,  sorrow  and  mourning  fleeing:  apace,  praise  waiting  for  the 
Lord  in  Zion,  the  Lord  Jesus  at  hand,  to  be  glorified  in  his  saints, 
and  admired  in  all  them  that  believe.  Cast  not  away  therefore 
your  confidence,  which  hath  great  recommence  of  reward:  for  yet 
a  little  while,  and,  he  that  shall  come  will  come,  and  will  not  tarry. 
Read  over  Heb.  x.  30,  to  the  end  of  the  chapter.  Comfort  and 
encourage  one  another  with  these  words,  and  pray  for 

Your  fellow-sufferer  and  truly  sympathizing  brother, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 


But  the  next  morning,  being  15th  day  9th  month,  1675, 
brother  Ellis,  brother  Ford,  brother  Snead,  Mr.  Clarke,  and 
Mr.  Hill  appeared  according  to  their  promise,  before  Mr. 
Lawford,  deputy-mayor,  Sir  Robert  Yeamans,  Alderman 
Hicks,  Alderman  Ollive,  at  the  Tolzey  ;  where  Hellier 
also  came,  and  gave  an  information  against  them,  sworn  to  by 
him,  his  brother  George  Hellier,  and  his  man  Thomas  Eyre, 
That  these  five  persons  with  many  more,  he  named  thirty, 
subjects  of  his  majesty's  realm,  were  at  such  a  place  at  a  con- 
venticle, or  unlawful  meeting ;  and  being  commanded  by  the 
officers,  and  one  of  them  his  majesty's  justice  of  the  peace,  to 
depart  in  his  majesty's  name,  yet  would  not ;  nay,  though 
proclamation  was  made  in  the  meeting  by  O  yes,  they  stayed, 
and  did  not  depart  for  above  a  quarter  of  an  hour  after.  Thus 
they  being  accused,  the  alderman  would  have  them  find  sure- 
ties to  appear  and  to  answer  it  at  next  quarter  sessions,  which 
would  be  about  two  months  thence.  These  brethren  were 
ready  so  to  do ;  but  Hellier  then  motions  to  the  said  Alderman 
Lawford,  and  they  must  give  sureties  for  the  good  behaviour 
in  the  meantime,  till  the  sessions ;  whereby  he  meant,  they 
must  not  go  to  meeting  in  the  mean  space.  But  to  that  they 
would  not  give  bail  nor  sureties.  Then  they,  the  alderman 
said,  must  go  to  prison.  So  after  long  debate  of  the 
matter  of  fact,  and  unreasonableness  of  their  acting,  and  their 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  317 

unrighteously  dealing  to  go  to  imprison  their  neighbours  for 
only  waiting  upon  God,  and  that  they  had  nothing  to  charge 
them  with  but  in  the  matters  of  their  God,  &c.  ;  and  that  they 
went  to  the  extremity  of  the  law,  and  did  follow  the  dictates 
of  this  debauched  fellow,  Hellier,  not  allowing  them  the 
favour  the  justices  would  allow  to  felons  ;  yet  nothing  would 
prevail,  but  to  prison  they  must  all  go,  unless  they  would  give 
bond  to  the  good  behaviour.  Which  they  still  refusing,  their 
mittimus  is  made  to  send  them  to  prison ;  but  some  friend 
standing  by,  wished  the  aldermen  not  to  be  so  rash,  but  to 
forbear  and  consider  of  it,  till  fourth  day,  Wednesday  next. 
Thereupon  they  commanded  them  to  appear  then  again. 

And  so  upon  the  17th  day  of  the  9th  month,  1675,  they 
again  appeared ;  and  finding  our  brethren  in  the  same  mind, 
not  to  give  sureties,  nor  so  much  as  promise  not  to  go  to 
meeting,  which  they  would  accept  of,  till  sessions  ;  they  were 
then  all  five,  brother  Captain  Ellis,  Mr.  Clarke,  brother  Ford, 
Mr.  Hill,  brother  Snead,  by  the  same  mittimus,  sent  prisoners 
to  Newgate.  Thus  these  poor  aldermen  fulfil  Hellier's 
desire :  for  Hellier  had  invited  them,  viz.,  Aldermen  Lawford, 
Ollive,  Hicks,  &c.,  to  dine  with  him,  at  Hellier's  house,  that 
day.  And  so  after  they  had  imprisoned  these  brethren,  they 
go  to  his  feast. 

The  fourteenth  Lord's  day,  being  21st  9th  month,  1675,  we 
had  rest  and  peace  all  this  day.  Some  think  the  Lord  brought 
[it]  thus  about.  When  our  brethren  aforesaid,  the  last  second 
day,  Monday,  were  brought  before  the  magistrates,  Hellier, 
and  one  Mr.  Robins,  steward  of  the  city,  a  very  debauched 
man  also,  and  an  enemy  to  us,  Hellier  had  said  in  open  court, 
before  the  aldermen,  that  the  parliament  were  going  to  make 
an  act  to  take  away  charters  from  those  cities  and  corporations 
that  did  suffer  such  conventicles ;  and  Robins  seconded  it,  and 
said  it  was  true,  for  he  heard  his  lordship  (meaning  the  bishop) 
had  writ  down  so.     Which  words  one  of  our  brethren  certi- 


318  THE    RECORDS 

fied  up  to  London,  to  Mr.  Jekell ;  who,  inquiring  whether  it 
were  so  of  some  of  the  parliament  House  of  Commons,  and  of 
some  of  the  House  of  Lords,  was  assured  it  was  an  utter  untruth, 
and  was  commanded  by  some  lords  to  write  a  letter  to  Robins, 
to  know  whether  it  was  true  that  his  lordship,  the  bishop  of 
Bristol,  had  writ  down  so,  if  he  would  prove  it ;  if  not,  Robins 
and  Hellier  should  be  sent  for  up,  and  called  to  an  account  for 
spreading  false  news,  and  belying  the  parliament.  Which 
letter  being  sent  inclosed  to  brother  Ellis,  in  prison,  the  day 
before  the  Lord's  day,  he  sent  his  man  with  it  to  Mr.  Robins, 
and  required  his  answer  that  post.  [This]  put  them  in  some 
fear,  that  it  was  observed  that  Hellier  and  Robins,  and  some 
others,  went  to  the  Tuns  Tavern,  to  their  instrument  Alder- 
man Ollive,  and  plodded  what  to  do,  drinking  themselves 
drunk.  So  through  this  fear  some  judged  we  were  let  alone 
this  day.  But  the  next  week  the  parliament  was  prorogued, 
for  fifteen  months,  until  15th  February,  1676.5  So  they  were 
not  called  to  account,  but  freed ;  and  we  again  troubled  the 
Lord's  day  following. 

Fifteenth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastlc. 

To  the  members    and  auditors   of  the   congregation   meeting  in 
Broadmead,  Bristol. 

Dearly  beloved  Friends, — I  am  through  the  Lord's  good  pro- 
vidence treating  with  you  about  faith.  The  next  step  I  take  I  am 
much  induced  it  should  be  on  that  ground,  Gal.  ii.  20 ;  Heb.  x.  38, 
"  The  just  shall  live  by  his  faith."  It  is  a  very  troublesome,  dis- 
tracting, distressing,  and  perplexed  life  that  we  live.     Is  there  not 

5  ["  The  Duke  of  Buckingham  made  ters  of  religion  ;  but  while  it  was  pre- 

a   notable  speech   against   persecution,  paring,  the  king,  on  Monday,  November 

and  desired  the  consent  of  the  lords,  that  21st,    prorogued    the    parliament,    till 

he  might  bring  in  a  bill  for  the  ease  of  February    come  twelvemonth." — Bax- 

his  majesty's  protestant  subjects  in  mat-  ter's  Narrative,  part  iii.  p.  175.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST,  319 

a  cause  why  !  We  live  by  sense  and  reason,  by  sight  and  fore- 
sight, and  make  little  use  of  faith  ;  see  1  Pet.  i.  5 — 9.  Faith  sees 
somewhat  to  rejoice  in,  when  all  things  appear  dark  and  dismal  to 
sense.  The  less  of  happiness  and  comfort  any  man  places  in  these 
outward  things,  the  more  happy  is  he.  He  lives  in  danger  of 
being  broken  every  day,  who  has  most  of  his  treasure  in  a  worldly 
bottom.  It  will  be  your  interest  and  wisdom  to  make  a  speedy 
removal  of  all  your  outward  concerns,  into  the  care  and  keeping 
of  Jesus  Christ  by  faith ;  lodge  your  souls  in  Christ's  complete 
righteousness,  and  all  your  outward  concerns  in  the  all-wise  pro- 
vidence of  your  heavenly  Father,  and  then  you  will  live  happily, 
when  you  thus  come  to  live  upon  your  faith.  I  profess  to  you, 
my  sense  of  things,  and  the  circumstances  we  are  under,  put  me 
out  of  my  wonted  method.  I  do  plainly  tell  you,  that  a  great 
many  of  Job's  messengers  are  upon  the  way,  coming  fast,  one 
after  another  ;  and  scarce  a  day  will  pass  over  your  heads,  wherein 
you  will  not  hear  of  some  saddening  news  or  other,  either  at  home 
or  abroad,  public  or  private,  relational  or  personal,  about  saints  or 
sinners,  from  men's  injustice  or  God's  just  displeasure,  respecting 
the  souls  or  bodies  of  men,  disappointments  or  losses,  deaths  of 
one  kind  or  of  another ;  but  if  we  can  by  faith  get  above  the  world, 
then  we  shall  be  able  to  frown  at  her  smiles,  and  smile  at  her 
frowns  ;  to  endure  her  crosses,  and  despise  her  flatteries.  Can 
you  believe  at  last  that  the  world  does  not  love  you  ?  Men  hate 
you  irreconcilably  and  mortally.  Consider  well  our  Saviour's 
last  words,  and  amongst  the  rest,  John  xv.  18 — 21.  You  cannot 
possibly  be  safe  but  by  trusting  God  purely,  and  living  upon  him 
solely.  We  have  sickly  souls,  sickly  churches,  and  a  sickly  state  ; 
sin  lies  at  the  bottom  of  all.  The  blood  of  Jesus  Christ  cleanseth 
us  from  all  sin  ;  and  this  blood  is  applied  by  a  lively  faith.  Bat 
is  there  no  good  news  ?  Pray  tell  us  something  that  may  be  good 
tidings  to  us.  There  is  a  great  deal  that  is  very  good  and  very 
true,  but  you  give  not  that  regard  to  it  which  you  ought. 

First.  This  is  a  faithful  saying,  and  worthy  of  all  acceptation, 
that  Christ  Jesus  came  into  the  world  to  save  sinners.  You  know 
where  to  read  this  news.     He  who  is  saved  from  sin  cannot  be 


320  THE    RECORDS 

hurt  by  anything  else.  God  is  his  father,  who  is  so  good,  he  will 
do  him  no  harm  ;  and  so  just,  he  will  do  him  no  wrong. 

Secondly.  It  is  good  news,  that  a  sincere  desire  is  accepted  with 
God  where  there  cannot  be  a  suitable  and  specious  performance. 
The  best  do  but  little  for  God,  the  weakest  can  desire  much  ;  he 
that  gives  God  the  best  he  hath,  and  heartily  wishes  it  were 
infinitely  better,  need  not  fear  evil  tidings.  The  widow's  two  mites 
are  remarked  in  scripture,  because  she  gave  her  all,  above  the  sums 
of  the  wealthy,  who  gave  out  of  their  abundance,  and  yet  kept 
abundance.  The  poor  woman  in  the  gospel,  talking  within  herself, 
is  taken  notice  of  by  our  Saviour  for  our  encouragement  to  earnest, 
fervent  wishes,  breathings,  and  longings  after  Christ,  and  more 
enjoyment  of  him.  Your  devices  may  be  as  large  as  the  ocean, 
when  your  doings  may  be  but  as  a  drop. 

Thirdly.  It  is  glad  tidings  what  you  read,  Phil.  i.  6.  When 
Jesus  Christ  has  once  taken  a  soul  into  his  covenant  and  love,  he 
will  never  reject  it  or  cast  it  off.  And  there  is  a  double  ground  of 
it,  for  he  is, 

1.  Omniscient,  and  knows  what  will  be,  and  how  we  shall 
prove;  which  because  men  cannot,  therefore  they  change  their 
minds  many  times. 

2.  The  power  of  his  pardon  is  great,  and  he  can  pass  by  trans- 
gressions. He  can  make  mountains  plain  before  him  ;  but  weak- 
ness in  men  causes  changeableness  in  them. 

Fourthly.  It  is  welcome  news  that  nothing  that  falls  out  can 
hurt  a  believer.  All  things  work  together  for  his  good  ;  that 
which  we  think  worst  is  best,  and  the  worse  the  better. 

Fifthly.  Lastly,  That  the  Lord  will  save  his  people  with  a 
notwithstanding — How  is  this  ? 

1.  Notwithstanding  their  own  unworthiness,  imperfections, 
backslidings,  and  unfitness  for  mercies. 

2.  Notwithstanding  their  fears,  faintings,  despondencies,  unbe- 
lief, and  positive  conclusions  against  themselves  ;  their  hopes,  and 
the  returns  of  mercy. 

3.  Notwithstanding  all  the  improbabilities,  and  growing  opposi- 
tions and  obstructions  that  seem  to  lie  in  the  way  of  their  peace  and 
deliverance. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  321 

4.  Notwithstanding  the  power,  prevalency,  expectations,  in- 
terests, and  insultings  of  their  enemies. 

5.  Notwithstanding  many  tokens  and  testimonies  of  his  own 
displeasure  and  indignation  against  them,  and  a  kind  of  resolution 
not  to  show  mercy  to  them  any  more.  See  Hosea  ii.  4 — ?  ;  see 
also  verses  14,  15,  23  of  the  same  chapter;  Judges  x.  11—17.  I 
must  conclude  with  this  : — Peter  was  afraid  and  he  began  to  sink  ; 
our  fears  are  the  great  cause  of  our  sinkings.  But  when  he  began 
to  sink,  Christ  came  to  his  relief  and  saved  him  ;  he  will  make 
you  to  cry  out,  but  he  will  not  suffer  you  to  perish.  The  Lord 
increase  your  faith.     Pray  for 

Your  friend,  that  loves  you  at  all  times, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 
9th  month  20th  day,  1675. 

The  fifteenth  Lord's  day,  being  28th  Nov.  1675,  in  the 
morning,  Hellier,  with  another  man,  one  Gill,  came  four  times 
to  our  meeting,  and  so  interrupted  us;  for  he  walked  from 
Mr.  Weeks's  to  ours,  aud  from  our  meeting  to  brother 
Gifford's,  and  so  from  one  to  another,  all  that  morning.  And 
in  the  afternoon,  he  came  twice  before  two  of  the  clock,  and 
then  had  got  Alderman  Hicks  to  come  to  him,  and  so  they 
went  to  disturb  Mr.  AVeeks's  meeting,  and  tarried  there  a 
long  time,  till  half  an  hour  past  three ;  by  which  means  we 
had  a  fine  breathing,  and  a  comfortable  opportunity,  and 
ended  all  in  peace.  But  as  the  people  were  going  forth,  a 
great  part  having  already  passed  out,  Hellier  with  the  con- 
stables came,  and  stopped  the  rest,  and  would  not  let  them 
come  forth :  and  then  the  Alderman  Hicks  coming,  seeing  the 
people  were  part  gone,  and  the  rest  going  out,  he  turned  away 
homewards.  Yet  Hellier  made  the  constable  keep  the  doors 
to  take  their  names,  and  Hellier  pulled  and  hauled  the  people, 
[particularly]  brother  Rieves,  and  also  Mr.  John  Cornish,  and 
was  going  to  strike  him  on  the  head  with  his  staff;  but  his 

Y 


322  THE    RECORDS 

brother-in-law,  George  Hellier,  prevented  him.  And  he 
struck  one  boy  a  sore  blow.  And  as  the  constable  there  kept 
one  of  the  doors,  putting  in  his  constable's  staff  athwart  the 
door,  the  entry  being  thronged  with  those  people  that  came 
down  out  of  the  meeting,  a  little  child  being  next  the  door, 
the  constable  plucked  away  his  staff  to  let  out  the  child,  and 
then  divers  people  rushed  out,  and  with  it.  Here  the  con- 
stable was  thrust  down  in  the  street,  at  which  there  was  a 
great  Thay  made  by  the  boys  in  the  street  that  followed 
Hellier.  And  thereupon  Hellier,  the  next  day,  before  the 
magistrates,  endeavoured  to  make  this  meeting  a  riot: 
whereas  we  were  peaceably  met,  and  peaceably  parting,  but 
he  hindered  us,  endeavouring  to  find  the  brother  that  spake  ; 
but  the  Lord  had  hid  him. 

Sixteenth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

To   the   members    and   hearers   of  the   congregation  meeting  in 
Broadmead,  Bristol. 

9th  month  26th  day,  1675. 

Beloved  Friends,— My  meditations  are  still  willingly  employed 
and  busied  about  your  spiritual  and  eternal  concerns.  I  am  com- 
paring two  texts  of  scripture,  1  John  i.  4,  These  things  write  we 
unto  you,  that  your  joy  may  be  full ;  1  Pet.  i.  8,  In  whom,  believ- 
ing, ye  rejoice  with  joy  unspeakable  and  full  of  glory.  It  is 
possible  for  those  that  are  in  heaviness,  through  manifold  tempta- 
tions, to  rejoice  much  in  believing,  and  in  hoping  for  the  glory  of 
God.  This  joy  of  faith,  which  the  blessed  apostle  makes  mention 
of,  I  shall  consider  in  its  nature  and  properties. 

I.  For  the  nature  of  the  joy  of  faith. 

1.  It  is  such  a  joy  as  hath  no  dependence  at  all  upon  external 
and  creature-enjoyments  and  advantages.  The  affluence  and  con- 
fluence of  worldly  comforts  cannot  produce  it.  The  result  of  all 
things  of  that  nature  is  vanity,  and  that  which  is  vanity  can  never 
b,e  a  ground  of  joy. 

2,  It  is  such  a  joy  as  cannot  be  wrought  out  of  all  our  privileges 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  323 

and  performances.  The  defects  of  onr  duties  may,  and  many 
times  do  cause  mourning,  sorrow,  and  humiliation ;  but  the  com- 
pleteness of  them,  as  proceeding  from  ourselves,  can  never  produce 
full  joy. 

3.  A  grounded  apprehension  of,  first,  our  interest  in  the  perfect 
satisfaction  of  Christ ;  second,  the  imputation  of  his  righteousness; 
third,  the  pardon  of  our  sins ;  fourth,  the  acceptance  of  our  persons 
and  prayers;  fifth,  his  purchased  and  prepared  glory;  sixth,  the 
immutable  covenant ;  seventh,  the  promise  of  his  Spirit ;  eighth, 
the  joint-witnessing  of  the  same  ;  ninth,  his  constant  intercession 
with  the  Father ;  and  tenth,  our  daily  experiences  of  his  power, 
providence,  and  faithfulness : — I  say  our  faith  in  these  ten  things 
will  give  us  at  all  times  matter,  and  afford  us  occasion  of  unspeak- 
able and  abounding  joy. 

4.  The  more  we  admit  of  the  workings  of  sense  and  reason,  the 
more  does  our  trouble  and  perplexity  increase  ;  but  the  more  they 
are  checked,  and  faith  and  patience  put  in  exercise,  the  greater 
rest,  peace,  and  tranquillity  abides  upon  our  spirits.  Where  sense 
and  reason  can  see  nothing  but  clouds  and  darkness,  there  faith 
can  behold  a  clear  sunshine  and  great  beauty. 

5.  This  joy  of  faith  is  so  far  from  being  dashed  by  difficulties 
and  hardships,  that  it  is  advanced  and  advantaged  much  by  them. 
And  that  upon  these  grounds  : — 

(1.)  It  discovers  the  lightness  of  them.  They  are  such  as  only 
respect  the  outward  man;  troublesome  to  that  which  must  not 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God,  afflictive  to  those  parts  that  have 
been  the  occasion  of  much  sin  and  temptation  to  us,  and  thereby 
have  caused  inward  soul-mourning;  such  little  things  as  the 
heathens  themselves,  by  the  improvement  of  the  light  and  remain- 
ing rectitude  of  nature,  could  despise  and  glory  under. 

(2.)  Faith  beholds  the  momentariness  of  them.  They  are  such 
troubles  as  will  be  quickly  over ;  clouds  suddenly  blown  away. 
Persecution  will  vanish.  It  is  said  of  them  that  wagged  their 
heads  at  Christ  upon  the  cross,  that  they  were  passing  by  ;  and 
those  heads  in  a  few  days  were  quietly  laid  in  the  grave,  where 
they  could  wag  no  more. 

Y  2       " 


324  THE    RECORDS 

(3.)  Faith  discerns  a  great  accession  and  addition  to  our  future 
glory,  by  our  present  sufferings;  see  2  Cor.  iv.  16 — 18,  and 
Heb.  x.  32—34. 

II.  For  the  properties  of  this  joy. 

1.  It  is  an  abiding  joy ;  the  grounds  of  it  are  certain  and 
unchangeable.  The  wells  of  salvation  are  always  full,  from  whence 
this  joy  is  drawn  out.  It  is  our  want  of  buckets,  or  of  our  making 
too  much  use  of  our  own  bottles,  by  which  we  are  deprived  many 
times  of  our  comfort ;  and  that  joy  that  came  in  the  morning, 
tarries  not  with  us  till  the  evening. 

2.  It  is  abounding  joy. 

First.  It  exceeds  all  other  joy :  of  riches,  relations,  friends ;  the 
joy  of  harvest ;  the  joy  of  the  bridegroom  and  the  bride  ;  the  joy 
of  them  that  divide  the  spoil ;  the  joy  of  corn  and  wine  and  oil, 
Ps.  iv.  6,  7.  And  because  it  exceeds  and  is  above  all  other  joys, 
it  does  thereby  regulate,  sanctify,  and  sweeten  all  other  joys; 
which,  when  they  are  uppermost,  do  but  transport,  weaken,  and 
intoxicate  the  soul;  but  this  joy  of  faith  is  our  strength,  fixation, 
and  stabiliment. 

Second,  It  is  abounding,  because  it  excels  and  swims  above  all 
worldly  sorrow,  and  is  not  capable  of  being  checked,  or  nonplussed, 
or  overpowered  by  it.  The  oil  of  faith's  joy  will  still  be  upper- 
most. See  Habak.  iii.  17 — 19  ;  so  Job  xix.  25 — 27.  You  know 
what  made  him  say,  Though  he  slay  me,  yet  will  I  trust  in  him  ; 
he  also  shall  be  my  salvation,  &c.  This  property  of  joy  is 
abundantly  exemplified  in  the  psalms  of  David ;  which  pray  take 
notice  of  in  the  reading  of  them.  How  low  many  times  was  his 
case,  and  yet  how  was  his  faith  and  joy  lifted  up. 

Third.  It  is  a  purifying  joy.  Carnal  joy  is  defiling,  but  this  is 
cleansing.  It  does  not  exclude,  but  joins  in  partnership  with  the 
filial  fear  and  awe  of  the  Almighty  God.  It  is  not  wanton,  but 
serious,  solid,  and  savoury. 

Fourth.  It  is  a  strengthening  joy.  Worldly  joy  debilitates, 
weakens,  and  enfeebles;  but  this  is  a  great  strengthener,  an 
encourager  to  duty,  and  helps  us  with  patience  and  waiting  upon 
God  in  duty. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  325 

Fifth.  It  is  a  pure  unmixed  joy;  no  sorrow  joined  with  it,  nor 
added  to  it.  It  is  free  from  confusion  and  consequential  perplexi- 
ties, which  are  the  certain  adjuncts  and  concomitants  of  all  other 

joys- 
Sixth.  It  is  a  growing,  not  a  decaying  and  declining  joy,  as  the 
joy  of  the  creature  is.  The  joy  of  faith  will  be  full,  perfect,  and 
complete.  What  we  now  rejoice  in  the  believing  of,  we  shall  ere 
long  in  the  beholding  of.  The  Lord  increase  your  faith,  that  so 
your  joy  may  be  more  and  more  ;  in  both  which  I  shall  have 
cause  to  rejoice,  and  for  which  I  do  daily  pray,  not  doubting  o 
your  continued  supplications  for  me,  that  I  may  have  the  supplies 
of  the  Spirit  of  Jesus,  which  will  help  me  forward  in  my  work, 
and  especially  whilst  I  remain, 

Your  companion  in  tribulation, 

Thomas  Hardcastle, 

*  The  sixteenth  Lord's  day,  being  the  5th  of  the  10th  month, 
1675,  we  were  in  the  morning  three  times  disturbed  by 
Hellier,  and  constables  he  brought.  The  last  time  he  brought 
Alderman  Crump  with  him.  The  alderman  was  very  civil,  it 
being  near  eleven  of  the  clock ;  after  they  stayed  some  time 
— the  people  a  singing — all  departed  at  the  hour.  In  the 
afternoon  Hellier  disturbed  us  twice. 

Seventeenth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

These  to  the  members  and  hearers  of  the  congregation  meeting  in 
Broadmead,  Bristol. 

Beloved  Friends, — Our  next  footing,  for  our  further  progress 
in  this  great  point  of  a  true  and  right  faith,  we  take  from  Heb. 
xi.  7.  True  faith  believes  the  threatenings  of  God's  judgments, 
and  will  take  warning,  and  prepares  for  prevention  and  escape. 
Jonah  iii.  5,  10,  compared. 

A  counterfeit  faith  will  be  secure,  and  meets  with  a  surprisal ; 
1  Thes.  v.  2,  3,  6,  compared.     Fear  is  the  handmaid  of  faith,  and 


326  THE    RECORDS 

care  and  endeavour  are  the  fruits  and  effects  of  fear.  When  the 
judgments  of  God  are  hanging  over  our  heads,  and  public  calamity 
approaching,  true  faith  has  a  great  deal  of  exercise  and  employ- 
ment : — 

1 .  It  affects  the  heart  with  fear  and  trembling,  with  sensibleness 
and  trouble.  The  mighty  hand  of  God  makes  the  soul  humble, 
and  lie  very  low.  The  eye  sees  the  hand  of  God  lifted  up,  and  it 
affects  the  heart.  This  was  the  frame  of  king  Josiah  and  the 
prophet  Habakkuk;  2  Kings  xxii.  19;  Hab.  iii.  16.  The  lion 
hath  roared,  who  will  not  fear  ?  Amos  iii.  8.  Fear  ye  not  me  ? 
saith  the  Lord:  will  ye  not  tremble  at  my  ■presence'?  Jer.  v.  22. 
When  God  rises  from  his  place,  and  goes  forth  in  indignation,  he 
expects  that  we  should  reverence  him  ;  make  our  obeisance  to  him, 
and  wait  on  him  in  the  way  of  his  judgments.  Our  iniquities  have 
provoked  him,  and  the  tokens  of  his  anger  should  make  us  melt 
and  fall  down  before  him.  Indeed  his  mercies  should  command 
our  respect ;  his  common  providence  and  daily  provisions  should 
make  us  fear  before  him ;  see  Jer.  v.  22 — 24.  If  we  will  not 
acknowledge  him  for  the  good  things  he  bestows,  he  will  be  known 
by  the  judgments  that  he  executes.  True  faith  differences  a  saint 
from  a  hypocrite  very  evidently  and  eminently  in  this  matter ;  the 
one,  when  under  affliction,  murmurs,  and  his  heart  frets  against 
the  Lord,  speaks  proudly  and  hardens  himself:  the  other  is  in  a 
silent,  humble,  trembling,  and  submissive  frame  of  spirit,  confess- 
ing his  sin,  acknowledging  justice,  and  praising  God  for  the  mercy 
that  is  left,  and  the  punishment  less  than  iniquity  deserves. 

2.  True  faith,  in  times  of  impending  judgment,  discovers  to  the 
soul  the  weakness,  instability,  and  uncertainty  of  all  earthly  refuges, 
worldly  securities,  and  carnal  dependences ;  no  city  of  refuge  in 
the  wilderness  of  this  world;  no  sanctuary  below  God  himself, 
whose  name  is  a  strong  tower  :  the  riyhteous  in  time  of  distress  and 
tribulation  run  into  it,  and  there  are  safe.  This  faith,  unfeigned, 
shows  to  a  believer  that  the  strongest  hold  upon  earth  is  easily 
stormed  by  the  just  wrath  of  God  ;  but  a  counterfeit,  hypocritical 
faith  admits  <>t*  shifting  and  removing  from  one  carnal  shelter  to 
smother,  as  interest,  friends,  relations,  riches,  Immunity,  security? 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  327 

or  a  supposition  that  the  evil  will  not  come,  compliance,  escape 
by  flight,  external  humiliations  and  reformings,  formal  perform- 
ances, intercessions,  and  prayers  of  saints ;  universality  of  the 
scourge,  (I  shall  do  as  well  as  others)  ;  present  enjoyment,  (let  us 
eat  and  drink,  for  to-morrow  we  die)  ;  general  apprehension  of 
God's  mercy,  without  considering  his  holiness,  justice,  and  provo- 
cations ;  a  groundless  conceit  that  death  will  put  an  end  to  misery, 
without  any  provision  made  for  another  life ;  and  such  like  little 
props  and  leaning-stocks  as  these,  the  hypocrite  propounds  and 
promises  to  himself,  in  times  of  straits  and  difficulties.  I  might 
name  more ;  but  true  faith  does  not  only  show  the  emptiness  of 
the  best  creature-hold,  but, 

3.  Leads  the  soul  unto  God,  the  Rock  of  ages.  Deut.  xxxii. 
31 ;  1  Sam.  ii.  2  ;  Ps.  lxi.  2,  ix.  9, 10.  Divine  attributes,  precious 
promises,  the  sons  of  prayers,  seasonable  providences,  inward 
experiences,  and  such  like,  are  a  believer's  rock  and  refuge.  When 
I  am  weak,  then  am  I  strong.  When  I  am  nothing,  and  can  do 
nothing,  can  see  nothing,  can  say  nothing,  then  will  I  trust  in  Him, 
stay  myself  upon  Him  ;  he  also  shall  be  my  salvation. 

4.  Faith  sees  through  the  most  dark  and  dreadful  dispensations ; 
and  discerns  peace,  and  freedom,  and  tranquillity,  and  happiness, 
beyond  them  ;  and  can  rejoice  in  hope.  Abraham  saw  the  day  of 
Christ,  and  was  glad.  Gospel  believers  can  by  faith  see  Christ 
coming  in  his  glory ;  sitting  on  his  throne,  his  enemies  made  his 
footstool;  bringing?  salvation  and  his  reward  with  him.  Sense 
and  reason  terminate  their  eye  in  the  midst  of  the  trouble,  and  lose 
themselves  in  the  clouds,  and  conclude  that  these  days  of  misery 
will  not  have  an  end,  or  that  they  will  make  an  end  of  us ;  that 
we  shall  never  get  through  them  alive,  that  we  shall  never  be  able 
to  hold  up,  to  hold  on,  to  hold  out,  to  continue  faithful  to  the  last. 
But  this  true  faith  speaketh  on  this  wise  : — It  is  true  the  calamity 
is  great,  it  has  been  a  long  and  lasting  hour  of  temptation,  and 
who  can  tell  when  it  will  have  an  end  ?  but  this  I  am  sure  of,  that 
it  will  have  an  end,  a  blessed  end:  that  this  time  of  trouble, 
compared  with  the  succeeding  time  of  peace  and  joy,  is  but  very 
short  and  momentary.     I  see  the  wheels  moving;  very  fast;  the 


328  THE    RECORDS 

Lord  Jesus  comes  apace ;  salvation  draws  near ;  it  is  but  a  very 
little  while  and  we  shall  be  in  the  possession  of  it.  The  damna- 
tion of  wicked  men  slumbereth  not ;  their  destruction  sleepeth  not ; 
their  measure  is  filling  up  apace.  The  Lord  registers  their  sins, 
and  records  our  sufferings.  The  times  of  mercy  are  set,  the 
bounds  of  it  cannot  be  exceeded.  God  will  be  faithful  to  his 
people  ;  he  will  keep  his  word  and  promise.  He  will  not  suffer 
them  to  faint  away  ;  he  will  uphold  them.  I  will  venture  myself 
upon  him.  I  will  take  care  of  my  present  duty,  and  leave  all 
issues  to  his  all-wise  good  providence,  which  will  care  for  my 
soul  and  body ;  that  shall  be  my  hiding  place,  and  strong  tower 
in  time  of  trouble.  Methinks,  says  faith,  I  see  the  wicked 
tumbling  down,  and  calling  on  the  mountains  to  cover  them  ;  and 
saying  to  the  rocks,  Fall  on  us,  and  hide  us,  &c,  Rev.  vi.  15  j 
and  the  saints  singing  the  new  song,  Rev.  v.  9,  10. 

To  conclude.  As  Noah,  by  faith,  being  warned  of  God  of 
things  not  seen  as  yet,  moved  with  fear,  prepared  an  ark  to  the 
saving  of  his  house,  so  let  us,  being  warned  of  God  so  many  ways, 
by  personal,  private,  and  public  trials  and  afflictions,  let  us  get  into 
the  true  ark,  the  Lord  Jesus,  to  the  saving  of  our  souls,  and  the 
securing  of  all  our  concerns.  The  world  now  condemns  you,  but 
by  this  you  will  in  the  end  condemn  the  world,  as  Noah  did.  Let 
not  that  which  is  your  honour,  to  wit,  suffering  for  righteousness* 
sake,  through  the  interposition  of  flesh  and  blood,  sense  and 
reason,  become  your  burden,  and  so  you  come  to  fall  from  your 
stedfastness.  Confidence  in  God  hath  great  recompence  of  reward. 
Banish  the  very  thoughts  of  fear  and  falling  off.  Be  strong  in  the 
Lord,  and  in  the  power  of  his  might.  You  carry  Jesus  in  your 
vessel,  and  you  cannot  sink.  When  you  are  ready  to  let  go  your 
hold,  remember  that  your  safety  lies  in  the  hold  that  he  has  of 
you,  and  none  can  pluck  you  out  of  his  hands.  Comfort  your- 
selves with  these  words.     Grace  be  with  you  all.     Amen. 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 

10th  month,  3rd  day,  1675. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  329 

Upon  the  seventh  day  of  the  10th  month,  being  our  monthly 
day  for  prayer,  we  were  met  at  brother  Terrill's.  Hellier 
walks  about  there  in  the  morning ;  in  the  afternoon,  brought 
up  Hore  the  constable  with  him,  but  could  not  get  an  oppor- 
tunity to  get  in  :  so  we  were  quiet,  Praise  be  to  the  Lord, 
though  the  enemy  watched.  And  at  the  evening  of  the  same 
day,  sister  Robinson  the  elder,  who  departed  the  Lord's  day 
before,  was  then  interred.  There  were  two  Serjeants  watch- 
ing at  the  funeral,  it  was  said,  to  take  up  brother  Terrill ;  but, 
he  having  notice  of  their  being  there,  they  were  prevented. 

Sister  Robinson  died  5th  of  10th  month,  1675. 

Sister  Vanatturne  died  the  10th  day  of  10th  month,  1675. 

Brother  Bodenham's  wife  died  the  9th  day  of  10th  month, 
1675. 

Seventeenth  Lord's  day,  being  12th  of  10th  month,  1675, 
Hellier  the  day  before  had,  as  his  usual  manner  was,  prepared 
his  information,  and  sent  it  in  to  Alderman  Crump,  that  there 
would  be  two  meetings :  one  at  James's  Back,  which  was  Mr. 
Weeks's,  the  other  in  Broadmead,  in  the  morning  from  nine  to 
eleven,  the  afternoon  from  one  to  three.  Whereupon  the  new 
alderman,  Crump,  signs  four  warrants,  two  for  our  meeting 
for  morning  and  for  afternoon,  and  two  for  Mr.  Weeks's, 
and  sends  them  to  the  chief  constable  of  James's  wrard,  one 
Tristram  Gill,  who  was  newly  sworn  with  other  new  petty 
constables ;  and  they  seemed  very  sober,  loth  to  molest  us. 
Praise  be  to  the  Lord,  for  ordering  such  in  office,  and 
moderating  their  hearts. 

In  the  morning,  the  warrants  being  given  to  come  at  nine 
and  one,  Mr.  Weeks's  people  put  off  their  meeting  until  ten 
of  the  clock.  We  did  not  judge  it  meet  so  to  do,  though  it 
was  threatened  that  Sir  Robert  Yeamans  wrould  come  ;  but  to 
get  in  and  keep  our  place,  and  let  them  come.  Hellier  goes 
to  Mr.  Weeks's.  Not  finding  them,  [and]  their  door  fast,  [he] 
comes  to  us,  with  his  man,  up  into  our  meeting,  near  nine  of 


330  THE    RECORDS 

the  clock  ;  and  finding  some  already  come,  goes  away,  and  by 
and  by  comes  with  the  new  constables,  who  would  not  obey 
Hellier,  but  only  came  and  declared  they  had  a  warrant  from 
Alderman  Crump,  to  command  us  in  the  king's  name  to 
depart,  and  then  away  they  went  to  their  homes,  and  left 
Hellier;  so  we  had  peace.  But  Hellier  goes  to  Mr.  Weeks's 
door,  and  keeps  them  out ;  but  some  other  way  they  getting 
in  Hellier  went  in  also,  and  stayed  all  the  morning  with  them, 
that  they  were  hindered  from  preaching.  In  the  afternoon 
the  constables  come  again  to  us,  and  declare  their  order  that 
we  must  depart,  then  they  went  away ;  so  we  had  peace 
again.     Praise  be  to  the  Lord. 

This  twelfth  day  of  tenth  month,  1675,  Mary  Phillips  and 
Mary  Mallard,  at  breaking*  bread,  at  brother  Ellis  his  house, 
were  propounded  to  join  with  the  church. 

Hellier  this  day,  as  aforesaid,  staying  all  the  morning  at 
Mr.  Weeks's  till  almost  all  the  people  were  gone  home,  he 
got  John  Tucker,  one  of  Mr.  Weeks's  congregation,  to  go 
home  with  him  to  dinner;  at  which  time  some  discourse 
passed  between  Hellier  and  John  Tucker,  at  Hellier's  house, 
whereby  Hellier  intimated,  that  if  they  would  not  meet  at 
time  of  divine  service,  as  he  called  it,  he  would  not  trouble 
them. 

Whereupon  Mr.  Weeks,  and  divers  of  his  members,  con- 
cluded, upon  this  motion  of  Hellier's,  to  alter  their  hours; 
namely,  to  meet  from  eleven  to  one,  and  to  come  again  after 
three,  and  meet  till  five. 

Which  intention  of  alteration  of  theirs  was  a  trouble  to 
the  other  three  congregations ;  whereupon  it  was  desired 
that  some  brethren  of  each  of  the  four  congregations  would 
meet  to  consider  the  proposition.  And,  accordingly,  upon 
the  17th  day  instant,  at  brother  Ellis's,  some  did  meet,  and  it 
was  generally  disliked  and  spoken  against  by  the  friends  of 
Mr.    Hardcastle's,    Mr.   Thompson's,    and   brother    Gifford's 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  331 

people,  those  three  congregations,  as  not  to  be  consented  to, 
nor  taken  notice  of;  by  reason  it  was  Hellier's  motion,  that 
vile  persecutor,  that  seemed  now  almost  tired,  having  fol- 
lowed us  these  fifteen  months  past  by  interrupting,  abusing, 
fining,  and  taking  away  our  goods,  and  imprisoning — and 
at  this  time,  seven  of  our  congregation  and  hearers  were 
prisoners — and  yet  could  not  restrain  us.  And  that  now  we 
should  comply  to  his  proposals  or  terms,  to  give  him  ground 
to  glory  he  had  overcome  us,  was  by  most  adjudged  alto- 
gether inexpedient,  and  not  at  all  our  interest,  nor  the  way 
to  obtain  peace,  to  keep  our  ground,  nor  to  have  future 
liberty  so  to  do. 

But  if  the  king  or  parliament,  the  magistrates  of  the 
nation,  had  declared,  if  we  would  alter  our  time  in  the  day 
for  our  public  exercise  or  worship  we  might  have  peace,  we 
should  have  been  willing  to  hearken  to  it,  though  not  to  a 
wicked  informer. 

Yet  our  presbyterian  friends,  namely,  Mr.  Weeks's  people, 
could  not  be  prevailed  with  to  meet  at  nine  and  at  one,  or 
before,  as  formerly ;  but  they  would  and  did  alter  their  time 
to  near  eleven,  and  three  for  the  afternoon.6 

Eighteenth  Lord's  day,  being  the  19th,  tenth  month,  1675, 
our  congregation  met  as  formerly,  expecting  a  great  deal  of 
trouble,  and  that  all  the  weight  and  burden  would  lie  upon 
us ;  because  Mr.  Weeks's  people,  who  did  use  to  take  up 
some  of  the  persecutor's  time,  had  altered  the  hour,  and  left 
us  in  that  respect.  But  it  pleased  the  Lord  that  we  had 
peace  all  the  day ;  the  like  we  had  not  had  for  many  months 
before.  Praise  be  to  the  Lord,  who  alone  took  care  of  us, 
when  we  were  in  our  low  estate,  Neh.  iii.  5,  and  the  meet- 
ing grown  very  poor  and  lean  through  fines,  imprisonments, 
and  constant  worrying  of  us  every  day,  that  we  had  no  rest 

6  [No  letter  appears  to  have  been  prepared  by  Mr.  Hardeastle  for  this  Lord's  day. J 


332  THE    RECORDS 

for  so  long  time  ;  that  is,  our  two  congregations,  namely,  Mr. 
Weeks's  and  ours,  that  lay  somewhat  near  together,  and 
were  the  first  onset  of  Hellier  and  the  magistrates,  as  the 
frontiers  of  the  other  meetings,  so  that  by  thnt  time  they 
could  any  day  end  with  us,  the  other  meetings  had  done. 
So  they  generally  escaped.  Laus  Deo.  In  the  mount  it  shall 
he  seen. 

Eighteenth  letter  from  the  pastor. 

To  my  beloved  friends,  the  members  and  auditors  of  the  congre- 
gation meeting  in  Broadmead,  Bristol. 

Beloved  Friends, — Our  next  step  for  the  discovery  of  true 
faith  we  take  in  Heb.  xi.  9,  10,  13.  Faith  enables  a  man  to  look 
upon  himself  as  a  sojourner,  stranger,  and  pilgrim  upon  earth  ; 
as  one  that  is  absent  from  home  ;  as  a  traveller  towards  his  own 
country.  The  operations,  and  exercises,  and  actings  of  faith  are 
such  as  these  : — 

I.  True  faith  looks  upon  heaven  and  the  future  state  of  glory, 
as  the  promised  inheritance, — a  land  of  promise.  It  cannot 
properly  be  said  of  any  of  the  things  of  this  world,  that  they  are 
promised  things  ;  that  is,  for  enjoyment  and  satisfaction.  They 
are  the  gifts  of  God,  but  not  the  objects  of  hope,  because  not  the 
subjects  of  promise.  I  grant  there  is  a  promise  that  all  these 
things  shall  be  added  to  them  that  first  seek  the  kingdom  of  God ; 
but  that  text  answers  itself.  The  kingdom  of  God  is  that  which 
is  primarily  promised,  and  principally  to  be  sought  after.  Other 
things  are  consequential  and  cautionary ;  secondary  helps,  made 
use  of  as  lesser  means ;  baits,  not  business.  A  little  of  them 
helps  a  traveller  on  his  journey  more  comfortably,  but  a  great 
deal  proves  his  burden  and  his  hindrance.  Heaven  is  the  great 
deed  of  settlement  ;  the  earth  is  but  the  loose  money  to  bear  the 
charges,— the  staff  to  walk  to  the  kingdom.  A  formal  professor 
lives  in  this  world  as  at  home,  as  in  his  centre.  He  breathes  no 
higher ;  it  is  his  element.      He  tends  no  further ;  it  is  his  situa- 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  333 

tion.  He  may  talk  of  a  future  state— a  remaining  rest,  but  he 
does  not  desire  to  change  his  station.  He  thinks  it  is  good  being 
here,  and  he  knows  not  that  it  would  be  so  well  with  him  in 
another  place.  His  faith  about  another  world  is  confused,  indis- 
tinct, dark,  traditional,  and  of  a  thing  at  a  distance ;  too  good  for 
him,  more  spiritual  than  he  can  bear,  and  something  too  near  the 
presence  of  God  to  be  endured.  Whereas  a  true  believer,  as 
Heb.  xi.  1,  hath  a  clear  prospect  of  happiness ;  believes  it 
stedfastly;  hopes  for  it  earnestly;  waits  for  it  patiently;  longs 
for  nothing  more  than  to  be  freed  ftom  sin,  and  to  be  in  the 
immediate  fruition  and  enjoyment  of  the  sweet,  satisfying,  soul- 
ravishing  presence  of  God. 

II.  True  faith  keeps  the  soul  much  in  serious,  distinct  thoughts 
of  its  passage  into  another  world ;  about  which  point  are  con- 
sidered : — 

1.  The  nearness  of  it.  A  believer  dies  daily.  He  lives  every 
day  as  his  last.  I  may  die  before  evening,  or  before  morning ; 
my  breath  is  in  my  nostrils. 

2.  The  speediness  of  it.  The  thread  of  life  is  soon  cut.  The 
last  breath  is  soon  sighed  out ;  see  Job  xiv.  10 — 12,  20. 

3.  The  unavoidableness  of  it.  Death  is  not  to  be  prorogued. 
Wherever  a  man  is,  whatever  he  is  doing,  whatever  he  leaves 
undone,  what  posture  so  ever  he  is  in,  there  can  be  no  delay ;  not 
a  minute's  stay  :  no,  not  if  it  would  save  a  soul,  Job  vii.  21. 
A  thousand  worlds  will  not  purchase  a  day  or  a  night;  Job 
xiv.  5. 

4.  The  irrecoverableness  of  it ;  Job  xiv.  7 — 9,  14,  i9.  There 
is  no  coming  back  to  mend  anything  that  was  amiss,  or  to  perfect 
anything  that  was  wanting ;  no  device  in  the  grave,  Eccles. 
ix.  10. 

5.  The  sudden  and  wonderful  change  it  makes.  Thoughts 
and  designs  of  a  worldly  nature,  all  perish ;  converse  ceases  ; 
friends,  and  relations,  and  familiar  acquaintance  [are]  seen  no 
more ;  no  knowledge,  or  intimation  of  whatever  passes ;  Job 
xiv.  21. 

6.  The  privilege  of  it.     It  is  the  door  into  glory ;  the  way  to 


334  THE    RECORDS 

be  with  Christ,  which  is  far  better;  the  sting,  which  is  sin,  being 
taken  away,  it  being  disarmed  of  its  terror  by  Christ ;  the  fear  of 
it  removed,  which  keeps  hypocrites  and  unsound  professors  all 
their  lifetime  subject  to  bondage ;  Heb.  ii.  14,  15 ;  1  Cor.  xv. 
55—57. 

7.  About  the  pain  of  it ;  the  consideration  of  which  is  alle- 
viated and  much  removed, 

First,  By  recollecting  the  scripture  phrase  about  it.  It  is  a 
sleep  ;  a  giving  up  the  ghost ;  a  commending  the  spirit  into  the 
hands  of  the  Lord  ;  a  going  into  the  harbour.  The  Lord  is  in  a 
more  special  manner  present  ;  his  consolations  inexpressible. 
None  so  full  of  joy  as  dying  saints.  Angels  [are]  ready  to  wait 
upon  the  soul,  and  carry  it  safe  into  heaven,  through  the  prince 
of  the  air's  country. 

Secondly,  By  reflecting  upon  the  great  deliverance  and  salva- 
tion which  the  soul,  and  body  too,  will  be  made  partaker  of.  No 
more  sinning,  nor  weeping,  nor  sorrowing,  nor  fearing,  nor  fret- 
ting, nor  vexing,  nor  wearisome  pains,  uneasy  burdens,  irksome 
postures,  disturbing  sights,  distracting  cares,  troublesome  re- 
moves, perplexing  changes,  unsatisfactory  converse,  insatiable 
concupiscence,  nor  successive  and  unavoidable  disappointments 
and  disquietments. 

Thirdly,  Pain  is  prevented  by  a  conscientious  managing  of  the 
conversation,  with  relation  to  eternity.  If  all  I  act  and  do  in  my 
lifetime  have  a  good  aspect  upon  eternity,  it  will  make  death 
easy,  and  strangely  weaken  and  enervate  its  pain,  as  well  as  its 
sting ;  it  will  make  a  man  die  easy,  and  well  too. 

III.  True  faith,  by  helping  a  believer  to  look  upon  himself  as 
a  stranger,  does  mightily  strengthen  him  to  a  grateful  contented- 
ness  with  his  present  good  and  conveniences  ;  as,  also,  to  a  cheer- 
ful enduring  of  present  affronts,  injuries,  grievances,  and  afflic- 
tions. A  little  kindness  goes  far  with  a  stranger.  A  small 
matter  will  serve  a  passenger  ;  2  Kings  iv.  9,  10.  Much  uneasi- 
ness  and  unkindness  may  be  easily  borne  by  a  way  faring  man, 
that  turns  aside  to  tarry  but  for  a  night ;  that  is,  not  far  from 
home,  and  knows  he  shall  be  welcomed  with  the  best  entertain- 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  335 

ment  when  he  comes  at  home;  1  John  iii.  1,2;  John  xv.  18 — 
21  ;  and  xvi.  20 — 22.  These  words  were  spoken  by  our  Saviour 
to  his  disciples,  as  matter  and  ground  of  very  great  comfort  and 
consolation.  But  a  counterfeit  believer  is  never  satisfied  with 
what  he  hath.  His  accommodations  do  not  please  hum  He 
would  have  them  finer,  and  larger,  and  longer.  His  incon- 
veniences are  such  as  cause  much  murmuring,  fretting,  and 
discontent  in  his  spirit.  He  wishes  his  days  were  not  so  few, 
but  that  they  were  freer  from  trouble  than  they  are.  He  does 
not  desire  the  change  of  his  place,  and  state,  and  condition,  but 
that  it  might  be  mended,  and  repaired,  and  some  additions  made 
to  it.  Whereas  faith's  motto  is,  *  I  desire  to  be  dissolved,  and  to 
be  with  Christ,'  2  Cor.  v.  5.  As  Luther,  '  Lord,  put  me  not  off 
with  these  things ;  this  is  not  my  rest ;  I  cannot  live  here ;  I 
cannot  live  without  thee ;  thou  art  my  refuge  and  resting-place. 
Oh,  show  thyself  to  me,  or  take  me  up  to  thee !  ' 

That  Christ  may  be  with  you  unto  death,  in  death,  and  after 
death,  is  the  prayer  of  yours, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 

Nineteenth  Lord's  day,  being  26th  of  the  tenth  month, 
1675,  we  were  all  day  quiet,  though  we  kept  our  time  as 
formerly.  Praise  be  to  the  Lord !  Thus  two  days  together 
we  had  breathing. 

Nineteenth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

For  my  beloved  friends,  the  members  and  hearers  of  the  congre- 
gation meeting  in  Broadmead,  Bristol. 

10th  m.  25th  d.  1675. 
Beloved  Friends, — The  next  step  for  the  trial  of  true  faith 
we  take  from  Heb.  xi.  24 — 26.  This  faith  is  called  elsewhere  a 
faith  that  overcomes  the  world  ;  such  a  faith  as  refuses  and 
rejects  what  the  generality  of  the  world  do  earnestly  pursue,  that 
chooses  and  embraces  what  the  most  of  men  shun  and  avoid  with 


336  THE    RECORDS 

utmost  care.  Now  the  measures  of  the  workings  of  true  faith, 
upon  this  account,  we  may  take  notice  of  in  the  following  par- 
ticulars, which  we  may  find  in  this  scripture:  — 

I.  Moses  when  he  made  this  choice,  he  was  young,  and  yet 
come  to  years.  He  had  the  temptation  of  his  years  to  make  him 
embrace  pleasure,  and  yet  he  had  ripeness  of  years  to  make  him 
capable  of  a  right  choice.  He  was  no  child,  he  was  grown  great, 
fi'eyctg  ysvo/xsvog.  He  was  a  man  of  parts,  and  learning,  and  singular 
judgment ;  he  knew  what  it  was  he  refused,  and  what  it  was  he 
made  choice  of.  True  believers,  whatever  mean  opinion  the  men 
of  the  world  have  of  their  understanding,  and  reason,  and  discern- 
ing faculty,  looking  upon  them  as  fools  and  idiots,  and  an  ignorant, 
misguided,  humorous  people,  but  babes  in  comparison  with 
others ;  yet  they  are  wise  and  prudent,  they  know  the  price  and 
value  of  things.  Besides  they  do  not  refuse  the  good  things  of 
the  world,  because  they  cannot  come  at  them  and  attain  to  them  ; 
they  might  be  greater  and  richer,  and  take  more  liberty,  if  they 
were  persons  of  no  conscience  and  consideration.  Again,  they  do 
not  choose  the  afflictions  and  reproaches  of  the  world,  because 
they  cannot  avoid  them.  For  they  could  deliver  themselves  as 
well  as  others  do,  if  they  could  be  anything  or  nothing  in  religion 
and  worship,  as  others.  But  the  estimate  they  make,  by  the  help 
of  their  faith,  and  wherein  they  exceed  the  blind  world,  and  the 
outside  professor,  is  of  this  nature  : — If  I  follow  the  pleasures  of 
sin  now,  they  are  but  shadowy,  not  substantial ;  they  are  sinful 
and  provoking ;  they  are  short,  and  but  for  a  season ;  and  for 
such  enjoyment  must  I  be  deprived  of  everlasting  happiness,  and 
endure  eternal  torments  ?  But  if  I  endure  affliction  with  the  Lord's 
people,  the  trouble  will  be  but  slight  and  momentary,  in  the 
suffering  of  which  God  will  be  well  pleased,  and  after  which  I 
shall  receive  everlasting  joy  and  eternal  glory  :  for  faith  is  the 
evidence  of  a  hell  not  seen,  and  the  substance  of  a  heaven  hoped 
for. 

II.  True  faith  will  suppose  the  best  of  enjoyments,  the  best  of 
promises  which  the  world  can  make :  it  acts  the  wisdom  of 
Solomon,  and   with   him   makes  an   experiment  of  the   best  and 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  337 

choicest  of  creature-felicities:  faith  gives  the  utmost  liberty  to 
sense  and  experience-  If  you  can  make  anything  of  self,  sense,  and 
the  world,  faith  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  you.  If  you  can 
live  without  faith,  faith  can  live  without  you.  Moses  refused  no 
small  matter;  he  refused  to  be  called  the  son  of  Pharaoh's  daughter. 
And  he  had  parts  and  abilities  to  entitle  him  to  be  as  great  a  man 
in  Pharaoh's  court  as  ever  Joseph  was,  and  yet  faith  chooses 
affliction  with  the  people  of  God. 

III.  True  faith  sees  so  much  into  reproaches  for  Christ, 
as, 

First,  Discovers  them  to  be  sinful  on  the  reproachers'  part,  and 
therefore  the  example  of  them  utterly  to  be  abhorred ;  but  the 
enduring  of  them  to  be  extremely  honourable  and  desirable.  In 
this  matter,  true  faith  speaks  on  this  wise : — To  be  commended  by 
wicked  men  would  be  dangerous ;  to  be  connived  at  by  them 
would  be  suspicious ;  to  be  hated  by  them  is  safe ;  but  to  be  per- 
secuted and  opposed  by  them  is  honourable  and  advantageous. 
And  hence  it  comes  to  pass,  that  Moses  esteemed  the  reproaches  of 
Christ  greater  riches  than  the  treasures  in  Egypt.  And  afterwards 
the  disciples,  when  they  were  beaten  and  commanded  that  they 
should  not  speak  more  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  went  away  rejoicing 
that  they  were  counted  worthy  to  suffer  shame  for  his  name  [Acts  v. 
40,  41]. 

Secondly,  True  faith  discovers  thus  much  :  that  there  is  a  season 
and  an  opportunity  of  suffering  which  may  be  neglected,  and,  if  it 
be  passed  by,  it  may  be  such  another  may  never  be  presented  in 
that  kind  ;  and  yet,  sufferings  of  another  kind,  and  much  greater, 
cannot  be  prevented  and  avoided,  and  that  therefore  it  is  better  to 
suffer  in  God's  way  than  in  a  man's  own  way ;  much  more  eligible 
to  endure  trouble  in  a  way  of  precept,  than  in  a  way  of  providence  : 
from  angry  ungodly  men  wherein  God  shall  be  well  pleased,  than 
from  a  wrathful  displeased  God,  which  may  occasion  wicked  men 
to  censure  and  insult.  See  Esth.  iv.  13, 14,  compared  with  Jonah 
i.  6,  15.  If  we  must  be  condemned  and  destroyed  by  heathens, 
better  it  be  done  by  land  in  God's  way,  than  by  sea  in  our  own 
way.     That  Jonah  escaped  he  may  thank  the  goodness  and  faith- 

z 


338  THE    RECORDS 

fulness  of  God  ;  and  not  his  own  faith  in  God,  fear  of  God,  or 
ohedience  to  God. 

TV.  True  faith  sees  a  reason  of  all  its  actings  against  flesh  and 
blood,  sense  and  reason.  It  is  not  blind,  nor  does  it  put  any  man 
upon  ungrounded  and  unreasonable,  or  irresponsible  actings  :  for, 
says  my  author,  he  had  respect  unto  the  recommence  of  the  reward. 
Two  things  about  this,  and  I  have  done.  First  about  the 
object. 

1.  It  is  that  which  is  promised.  The  gospel  abounds  with 
nothing  so  much  as  with  a  plain  discovery  of  this.  I  commend 
the  many  scriptures  to  you  upon  this  account,  as  you  may  happen 
to  meet  with  them. 

2.  It  may  be  expected  by  you.  It  is  a  reward.  Sincerity  and 
suffering  may  claim  it.  See  the  message  to  the  angel  of  the 
church  of  Smyrna,  Rev.  ii.  8 — 11. 

3.  It  may  be  expected  speedily.  You  cannot  stay  long  from 
appearing  before  Christ.  He  will  not  stay  long  from  appearing 
gloriously  to  you. 

4.  There  is  no  proportion  between  your  suffering  and  the 
reward.  You  have  often  read,  but  I  pray  you  once  more  read  and 
consider  over  these  scriptures  :  Rom.  viii.  18  ;  2  Cor.  iv.  16 — 18 ; 
*  Tim.  ii.  11—13. 

Secondly.  The  eye  is  to  be  considered ;  he  looked  to  the  reward. 

1.  It  was  an  attentive  eye.  He  did  seriously,  solicitously, 
and  diligently  look  upon  it.  He  was  exact  and  particular  in  his 
observation.  He  did  distinctly  take  notice  of  the  excellency, 
freeness,  fullness,  certainty,  speediness,  satisfactoriness,  and  dura- 
tion of  the  object. 

2.  It  was  a  constant  eye,  a  fixed  eye :  it  was  not  waver- 
ing and  floating,  sometimes  upon  the  reward,  and  sometimes  upon 
the  court ;  but  it  was  steady,  and  intent  upon  what  God  would 
give;  for  he  judged  him  faithful  that  had  promised,  and  one  cast 
of  the  eye  elsewhere  might  have  proved  his  great  damage,  if  not 
his  ruin.  That  this  recompence  of  reward  may  be  always  in  your 
eye,  and  your  faith  continually  employed  and  conversant  about  it, 
to  the  refusing  of  all  carnal  sinful  offers,  and  to  the  choosing  of  all 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  339 

gospel  hardships,  the  enduring  of  your  Christian  warfare,  the  com- 
pleting of  your  whole  work,  and  the  Lord's  expectation  from  you, 
is  the  prayer  of  your  constant  well-wisher  and  fellow-sufferer, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 

Twentieth  Lord's  day,  being  2nd  of  the  llth  month 
[January],  1675-[6],  we  were  again  assaulted  and  troubled. 
In  the  morning,  about  ten  of 'the  clock,  Hellier  and  his  man, 
Thomas  Eyre,  and  his  groom,  with  the  bishop's  secretary, 
with  the  bishop's  new  coachman  and  butler,  as  said,  came  first 
to  Mr.  Weeks's ;  where  finding  some  of  their  people  come 
together,  but  they  not  having  begun,  then  Hellier,  with  the  rest 
afore-mentioned,  came  to  our  meeting,  of  which  we  had  notice 
in  the  morning,  and  although  our  brother  Jennings  had  been 
preaching,  yet,  at  their  coming  up,  we  were  singing.  And 
brother  Terrill,  against  whom  there  was  a  deposition  filed  on 
record,  and  divers  warrants  granted  out,  time  after  time,  to 
take  him  for  preaching,  that  they  could  prove  some  months 
past :  and  by  reason  thereof,  though  he  was  still  at  the  meet- 
ing, was  set  in  such  a  place  that  they  could  not  see  him.  But 
now  he  was  willing  to  sit  in  their  view,  that  they  might  see 
him  ;  and  when  Hellier  came  up,  and  saw  him  sit  at  the  table, 
where  formerly,  before  the  evidence  against  him  for  preaching, 
he  used  to  see  him  sit,  Hellier  turned  back,  and  whispered  to 
his  servant  Thomas  Eyre,  and  sent  him  away  (as  we  perceive 
afterward)  for  Alderman  Ollive,  he  that  had  been  mayor  last 
year.  And  then  when  Hellier  and  the  bishop's  secretary, 
with  the  rest,  had  walked  about  and  viewed  the  people, 
especially  brother  Terrill,  as  observed,  and  they  were  pleasant 
among  themselves  that  now  they  should  have  him,  knowing 
whom  they  had  sent  for :  but  in  the  mean  space,  until  the 
alderman  came,  they  would  improve  their  time,  and  so  they 
were  moved  to  depart,  and  went  to  brother  Gifford's  meeting, 
and  disturbed  them.     And  when  they  came  back  the  alder- 

z2 


340  THE    RECORDS 

man,  Ollive,  came,  and  they  with  him,  expecting  surely  to  have 
taken  away  brother  Terrill,  against  whom  they  bad  so  great 
an  advantage  as  proof  that  he  preached  :  and  so,  by  the  Five 
Mile  Act,  they  watched  to  imprison  him,  as  they  had  done 
our  pastor  twice,  for  six  months  at  a  time,  and  now  in  prison. 
But  some  brethren,  in  the  interim,  when  Hellier  with  the  rest 
was  gone  to  brother  GifFord's,  persuaded  brother  Terrill  to 
withdraw,  into  the  place  whereinto  we  did  use  to  convey  the 
speaker  when  officers  came  in :  so  that  when  they  came  up, 
and  not  finding  brother  Terrill  at  the  table,  where  a  little 
before  they  saw  him,  Alderman  Ollive  began  to  be  in  a  rage 
that  he  came  in  vain,  and  in  great  passion  he  commanded  the 
people  in  the  king's  name  to  be  gone ;  but  they  kept  singing, 
and  regarded  not  what  he  said.  Then,  in  words,  he  vehemently 
fell  upon  brother  Dickason,  whom  about  seven  weeks  before 
he  had  cast  into  prison,  but  was  afterwards  released;  and 
since  that  brother  Dicknson  was  sworn  a  constable,  and  there- 
fore the  alderman  thought  he  had  an  advantage  against  him 
for  being  at  such  an  unlawful  assembly,  being  a  constable,  and 
threatened  to  fine  him  five  pounds;  but  brother  Dickason  told 
him  he  did  not  look  upon  it  [as]  an  unlawful  assembly.  The 
alderman  lays  violent  hands  on  him,  pulls  him  out  of  the  seat 
where  he  sat,  and  commands  him  to  do  his  office  (meaning  to 
disperse  the  people).  He  told  him  he  was  sworn  to  keep  the 
king's  peace,  and  he  saw  nobody  break  the  peace  as  yet ;  if  he 
did,  he  would  take  them  into  custody :  and  to  that  effect. 
Thus  after  the  alderman  and  Hellier  had  taken  what  names 
they  pleased,  they  left  us,  and  went  away  to  Mr.  Weeks's 
meeting,  and  turned  them  out  of  their  meeting-place.  And 
so  when  they  were  gone,  our  time  being  expired,  we  concluded 
in  prayer.  In  the  afternoon  we  were  quiet.  Praise  be  to  the 
Lord.7 

The  11th  month,  1675.     Upon  the  4th  instant  we  kept  our 

7  [This  day  passed  without  a  letter  from  their  pastor.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  341 

quarterly  joint-meeting,  at  the  Castle,  being  the  third  [day]  of 
the  week,  according  to  the  time  appointed  by  brethren  of  the 
four  congregations,  that  we  should  join  together  in  a  quarterly 
fast ;  but  Mr.  Weeks 's  people,  because  we  would  not,  viz., 
the  other  three  congregations  would  not,  fall  in  with  them  to 
alter  our  time  for  public  worship  on  the  Lord's  day  as  they 
did,  at  Hellier's  proposal  or  intimation,  that  if  we  did  alter 
our  time  he  would  not  meddle  with  us ;  therefore  they  sent 
not  two  brethren  to  help  carry  on  the  day  of  prayer,  as  the 
rest  did.  And  so  they,  the  presbyterians,  broke  the  union 
that  they  formerly  did  agree  to :  but  the  other  three  congre- 
gations joined  together,  and  the  day  was  carried  on  by  six 
brethren.  Thus  they  began  to  make  a  breach,  which  was 
occasioned  by  a  young  man,  one  of  their  members,  going  to 
dine  with  Hellier,  who  lied  unto  them,  as  the  last  Lord's  day 
showed ;  and,  as  we  told  them,  he  was  to  be  no  more  credited 
than  regarded. 

The  evening  of  this  day,  about  eight  or  nine  of  the  clock  at 
night,  there  was  observed  to  be  an  earthquake  in  this  city,  in 
divers  parts  thereof.  People  as  they  sat  in  their  houses  their 
stools  did  rock,  and  some  observed  their  beds  and  walls  rocked, 
that  some  ran  out  of  their  houses  thinking  the  house  was 
going  to  fall ;  others,  their  pewter  fell  down,  and  things  off 
the  racks  over  their  clavyes  [mantel-pieces].  Many  perceived 
it  not,  but  some  houses  in  the  College  Green,  and  some  over 
the  bridge,  and  some  by  the  weir,  and  some  in  the  midst  of 
the  city,  hardly  a  street  but  some  or  other  that  were  sitting 
still  felt  it.  And  also  this  earthquake  at  the  same  time  was 
observed  at  Gloucester,  Tewkesbury,  and  in  Wales.8 

Twenty-first  Lord's  clay.  Upon  the  9th  of  the  11th  month, 
1675,  being  the  next  Lord's  day,  we  were  very  quiet  all  the 
day.     Praise  be  to  the  Lord. 

*  ["  An  earthquake  in  divers  counties." — Baxter's  Narrative,  part  hi.  175  =  ] 


342  THE    RECORDS 

The  twentieth  letter  of  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

These  for  my  beloved  friends,  the  members  and  auditors  of  the 
congregation,  yet  (notwithstanding  evil  men's  malice)  through 
the  Lord's  goodness,  meeting  in  Broadmead. 

11  m.  8  d.  1675-6. 

Beloved  Friends, — For  the  next  place,  we  come  to  consider 
the  obedience  of  faith,  which  is  mentioned  Rom.  xvi.  26,  and 
exemplified  in  Abraham,  Gen.  xii.  1 — 4,  with  Heb.  xi.  8.  Faith 
obeys  the  command,  and  believes  the  promise.  This  commends 
the  apostle's  faith,  that  he  was  not  disobedient  to  the  heavenly 
vision,  and  that  he  conferred  not  with  flesh  and  blood.  Gal.  i.  16. 
Where  God  has  a  word  to  command,  faith  hath  an  ear  to  hear,  a 
heart  to  be  willing,  and  feet  ready  to  go  on  his  errand.  Now  flesh 
and  blood,  which  are  carnal  reason,  questions,  disputes,  and  delays, 
instead  of  obeying,  raise  objections  about  safety,  success,  and 
rational  consequences.  Human  reason  and  gospel  reason  are 
many  times  quite  contrary  to  one  another.  Gospel  reason  is 
gospel  command ;  obedience  to  it  is  warranted  by  the  authority  of 
God,  supported  and  encouraged,  1st,  By  the  name  and  attributes  ; 
2ndly,  By  the  promises ;  and,  3dly,  By  the  experiences  of  God. 
Whereas  human  prudence  sails  by  the  compass  of  worldly  interest, 
credit,  safety,  profit,  &c,  and  subjects  itself  to  human  power.  A 
counterfeit  faith  and  carnal  reason  still  go  hand  in  hand  ;  you  shall 
seldom  see  them  divided.  A  true  faith,  1st,  Has  the  word  for  its 
warrant ;  2ndly,  Heaven  for  its  reward  ;  3dly,  The  power  of  God 
for  its  charges.  And  therefore  no  darkness  nor  difficulty  can  stand 
in  its  way;  but  with  Abraham,  1st,  It  will  go,  though  it  know  not 
whither ;  and  2ndly,  Though  it  know  that  the  fiery  furnace,  and 
the  lion's  den,  lie  in  the  way.     The  providence  of  God, 

1st,  Does  blast  the  foresight  and  reasonings  of  the  hypocrite, 
because  they  made  void  his  faith  ;  and, 

2ndly,  He  disappoints  the  rational  expectation  of  danger  in  the 
true  believer's  way,  because  his  faith  acted  beyond  his  reason. 

Tf,  firstly,  religion  and  worship  were  a.  human  constitution,  and, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  343 

secondly,  That  there  was  no  expectation  of  any  other  recompence 
or  penalty  but  what  human  power  could  bestow  or  inflict,  then  it 
would  be  the  most  rational  thing,  the  most  prudent  course,  to  square 
our  practice  therein  according  to  men's  dictates ;  and  not,  by  any 
non-conformity  to  their  rules,  run  the  hazard  either  of  losing  what 
we  have  got,  or  of  not  getting  more  by  our  compliance  and  con- 
formity. 

1st.  But  if  gospel  worship  depend  purely  upon  divine  revela- 
tion ;  and, 

2ndly.  Conscience  be  solely  under  God's  direction  and  disposal, 
who  can  only 

(1.)  Reach  it;  (2.)  Rule  it;  and  (3.)  Believe  it  :— 

If,  3dly,  The  rewards  and  punishments  be  to  be  looked  for 
from  him  alone,  and 

4thly,  Those  too  of  that  nature  which  does  not  consist  in 
present  and  visible  things,  but  in  something  future  and  invisible :  and 

5thly,  Those  such  as  men  can  neither  procure  for  us,  or  keep 
from  us  : — and 

Lastly,  If  the  principles  from  which,  the  ends  for  which,  the 
spirit  by  which  we  act,  and  the  power  through  which,  be  all  of 
them  divine  and  supernatural : — 

Then  I  conclude  that  it  is  highly  rational,  and  extremely 
suitable  and  agreeable,  that  we  keep  the  path  of  duty,  according  to 
the  direction  of  gospel-enlightened  consciences ;  depending  upon 
the  faithfulness,  and  power,  and  wisdom  of  God,  in  all  simplicity, 
purity,  self-denial,  humility,  courage,  and  constancy ;  and  take  no 
notice  of,  nor  have  any  solicitous  and  anxious  consideration  and 
hesitation — 

1.  About  the  inventions,  impositions,  commandments,  reproaches, 
and  persecutions  of  wicked  and  unreasonable  men. 

2.  The  wisdom  and  policy  of  flesh  and  blood. 

3.  The  persuasions  of  friends  and  relations. 

4.  The  insinuating  arguments  of  saints  and  professors. 

5.  Or  the  supposed  inconveniences  of  holding  on  in  a  plain  and 
public  way  of  gospel  worship.  See  Matt.  v.  10,  12,  xvi.  21—23; 
Gal.  i.  13—17;  Acts  xxi.  11—14. 


344  THE    RECORDS 

If  any  scruple  of  conscience  arise,  presently  let  us  ask  ourselves, 
in  all  sincerity  and  uprightness, 

1.  Which  way  will  most  honour  God,  and  advance  his  name? 

2.  By  which  means  will  the  adversary  be  most  convinced  and 
weakened  ;  or  hardened  and  encouraged  ? 

3.  Which  will  tend  most  to  the  edifying,  confirming,  and 
strengthening  the  saints  ?  Philip,  iv.  8 ;  1  Cor.  x.  23,  24 ;  1  Peter 
iii.  13 — 17  ;  Colos.  iv.  5  ;  Matt.  x.  17 — 20.  Compare  the  whole 
verses  together.     Beware  of  their  fear,  not  of  their  fury. 

4.  What  will  be  most  for  the  credit  and  honour  of  the  gospel  to 
the  saints  abroad,  where  the  report  shall  come  ? 

5.  Which  course  would  I  take  if  I  were  presently  to  give  up 
my  account  to  God  ? 

6.  What  should  I  do,  if  the  cross  and  suffering  were  not  in  the 
way? 

7.  Whether  is  it  gospel  to  shun  a  plain  way,  merely  for  the 
avoiding  of  the  cross,  of  what  nature  soever  it  be  ?  See  Matt,  xvi, 
24 — 26,  xi.  6.     If  peace  be  alleged,  I  answer: — 

(1.)  No  peace  to  be  accepted,  though  as  much  as  in  us  lies  it  is 
to  be  followed,  no  reconciliation  between  the  two  seeds. 

(2.)  We  must  look  after  truth  and  holiness,  as  well  as  peace. 

(3.)  Our  Saviour  says,  Matt.  v.  9  compared  with  10th,  that 
he  was  not  come  to  send  peace  on  earth,  but  a  sword ;  not  inten- 
tionally, but  accidentally ;  through  men's  corruptions,  that  are  not 
able  to  bear  the  light  of  the  gospel,  which  discovers  their  works  of 
darkness.  Take  but  the  candle  of  the  word  out  of- their  eyes  and 
then  they  will  be  quiet,  and  you  shall  have  peace ;  but  our  Lord 
and  Master  who  is  the  peace-maker,  and  is  all  for  peace,  does  yet 
allow  no  such  thing,  but  will  have  a  war  rather  than  such  a  peace. 

(4.)  War  with  sin,  and  bearing  up  a  testimony  against  sinners, 
keeps  our  peace  with  God. 

(5.)  In  doubtful  cases  it  is  the  rule  of  prudence  to  choose  the 
safer  side,  and  suspect  that  pari  which  interest,  and  flesh  and 
blood,  sides  with.  If  I  go  this  way,  I  may  sin;  but  if  I  go  the 
other  way,  1  am  sun  F  do  not  sin.  Better  fall  forward  than 
backward. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  345 

(6.)  God  never  took  it  unkindly,  that  any  one  leaned  too  much 
upon  him  in  the  plain  way  of  duty ;  but  delights  to  have  an  oppor- 
tunity of  discovering  great  power  and  gracious  providences. 

(7.)  God  does  not  allow  us  to  part  with  an  inch  of  his  ground, 
though  we  might  gain  the  peaceful  possession  of  all  the  rest.  All 
looking  on  an  enemy  that  is  attended  with  less  looking  up  to  him, 
and  a  [less]  firm  believing  his  power  and  promises  of  succour  and 
deliverance,  by  his  own  ways  and  means,  is  greatly  displeasing  to 
him,  and  commonly  attended  with  signal  tokens  of  his  vengeance, 
if  there  be  not  repentance.  It  would  be  well  for  us  if  we  can  say, 
as  Heb.  x.  39,  We  are  not  of  them  that  draw  back  e/g  aTruXeiav,  to 
loss.  In  all  drawing  back  there  is  considerable  loss.  The  first 
ground  is — 1.  The  plainest.  2.  The  safest.  3.  That  kept  most 
easily.     4.  It  is  most  effectual  against  antichrist. 

That  our  way  be  still  made  more  plain,  by  the  word  and  com- 
mand of  God ;  more  pleasant,  through  our  faith  in  the  promises  ; 
and  our  obedience  more  ready  and  resolved,  through  the  supplies 
of  the  Spirit  of  grace,  is  the  fervent  supplication  of 

Your  unworthy  servant,  for  Jesus'  sake, 

Thomas  Hardcastle. 


On  the  12th  instant,  our  brethren  and  friends,  viz.,  five 
men,  were,  at  the  quarter  sessions,  discharged  from  their  im- 
prisonment at  Newgate,  to  which  they  were  committed  about 
two  months  before ;  but  our  pastor,  Mr.  Hardcastle,  was  not 
yet  released,  but  remained  a  prisoner :  his  second  six  months' 
imprisonment  being  not  quite  expired. 

Our  friends  released  had  a  counsellor-at-law  to  plead  for 
their  discharge  by  law.  Hellier  pleaded  against  it,  and  said 
he  would  frame  an  indictment  against  them  for  a  riot.  The 
counsel  pleaded  it  was  more  than  he  could  do  by  law. 

Twenty-second  Lord's  day,  being  16th  [of]  11th  month, 
1675.  We  expected  again  great  distraction  in  our  meeting, 
for  the  troubler  of  our  Israel,  Hellier,  the  day  before  went  to 


346  THE    RECORDS 

the  mayor,  Sir  Robert  Cann,  and  to  the  alderman  of  the  ward 
in  which  we  met,  Mr.  Crump,  and  informed  against  our  meet- 
ing and  Mr.  Gifford's ;  only  those  two.  "  As  for  that  at 
James's  Back,"  said  he,  (meaning  Mr.  Weeks's  meeting,) 
"  I  have  nothing  to  say ;  they  do  submit,  and  keep  their 
words,  and  not  meet  until  after  ten  of  the  clock."  But  as  for 
ours  and  Mr.  Gifford's,  being  also  within  his  parish,  he  did 
inform  against,  and  required  the  said  Alderman  Crump  to  be 
there  in  person.  The  alderman  told  him  he  would  not  be 
there  in  person,  but  would  send  his  warrants  by  the  constables. 
Hellier  replied,  the  constables  would  not  execute  his  warrants, 
for  divers  of  them  did  not  go  to  church  themselves.  The 
alderman  bid  him  not  take  care  of  that,  the  constables  should 
do  what  was  their  office. 

Hellier  threatened  what  he  would  do  to  us,  and  ordered  the 
mayor's  clerk  to  prepare  the  warrants  ready  against  us. 
Whereupon  the  mayor,  and  the  said  alderman,  sent  to  brother 
Terrill  privately  to  wish  us  to  alter  our  time,  and  not  meet 
until  ten  of  the  clock.  But  our  friends  were  not  willing  so  to 
do,  because  this  request  was  grounded  upon  Hellier's  desires, 
and  to  gratify  him ;  which,  had  it  been  only  and  singly  the 
request  of  the  magistrates,  we  should  more  easily  have  con- 
descended ;  but  it  being  Hellier's  foundation,  we  could  not 
find  a  freedom  in  friends.  But  they  came  together  at  their 
usual  time,  as  formerly,  and  kept  open  our  doors  ;  yet  we  sat 
still  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  did  not  begin,  in  respect 
to  the  mayor  and  alderman's  request ;  because  we  heard 
Hellier  had  two  writs  against  the  said  alderman,  for  not 
coming  formerly  with  him  in  person,  as  often  as  he  would 
have  him,  to  disturb  us. 

But,  notwithstanding  all  Hellier's  threats,  God  did  so  dis- 
hearten him,  that  [although]  he  had  above  this  twelvemonths 
persecuted  us,  [he]  could  do  no  good  upon  us,  that  this  day 
he  came  not.     So  we  had  rest  all  day.     Praise  be  to  the  Lord. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  347 

The  twenty -first  letter  from  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

These  for  my  beloved  friends,  the  members  and  auditors  of  the 
congregation  yet  meeting  in  Broadmead. 

11  m.  14  d.  1675-6. 

Dearly  Beloved, — That  which  next  offers  itself  to  your  serious 
consideration,  touching  a  true  faith,  is  bottomed  on  Heb.  xi.  4. 
That  which  rendered  Abel's  sacrifice  accepted,  and  more  acceptable 
than  Cain's,  was  his  faith ;  which,  in  the  offering  of  all  spiritual 
sacrifices,  and  performing  religious  services,  executes  those  offices. 

1 .  True  faith  brings  the  soul  into  the  presence  of  God,  and  sets 
God  in  the  sight  of  the  soul,  and  thereby  preserves  upon  the  heart 
an  holy  awe,  dread,  and  reverence ;  keeps  it  in  an  humble,  self- 
abhorring,  and  self-abasing  posture ;  gives  it  a  sight  of  that  infinite 
excellency,  majesty,  purity,  and  omnisciency  that  is  in  God,  and  a 
discovery  of  its  own  meanness  and  vileness.  And  let  me  add,  by 
all  this  it  frees  and  delivers  the  soul  from  hypocrisy,  formality, 
customariness,  commonness,  carelessness,  wanderings,  and  dis- 
tractions, which  too  often  attend,  weaken,  and  make  void  the 
duties  of  religion,  and  are  the  constant  companions  of  a  counterfeit 
faith. 

2.  True  faith  encourages  the  soul  to  plead  with  God,  and 
furnishes  it  with  pleas  and  arguments,  Job  xxiii.  3 — 7.  Faith 
helps  the  soul  in  prayer,  against  those  faintings  and  despondings 
which  a  sense  of  unworthiness,  wretchedness,  manifold  miscar- 
riages, and  multiplied  backslidings,  would  bring  it  under;  and 
enables  it,  in  the  way  of  deep  humiliation  and  self-condemnation, 
to  take  hold  of  the  name  and  promises  of  God,  the  instances  and 
examples  of  divine  grace  and  pardoning  mercy  bestowed  upon 
others,  the  satisfaction  and  intercession  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  the 
great  prerogative  and  power  of  God  to  forgive  iniquity,  trans- 
gression, and  sin.  All  which  is  followed  with  an  holy,  incessant 
importunity,  and  patient  waiting  :  so  that  the  soul  fails  not  of  a 
gracious  and  comfortable  answer.  For  proofs  of  all  these  things, 
see  Jer.  xiv.  7—9;  Numb.  xiv.  17—19;  Mic.  vii.  18— 20  ; 
Luke  xviii.  1—8  ;  Matt.  xv.  23—28. 


348  THE    RECORDS 

3.  True  faith  rids  and  cleanses  the  heart  from  that  superfluity 
of  naughtiness  which  indisposes  the  soul  to,  and  keeps  it  from 
having,  communion  with  God  in  worship,  and  consequently  from 
honouring  God  by  it,  or  gaining  to  itself  any  comfort  or  consola- 
tion from  it.  Worldliness  and  malice,  covetousness  and  envy, 
wicked  love  and  hatred,  are  two  naughty  things  that  choke  the 
word,  cut  the  sinews  of  meditation,  hinder  the  efficacy  of  prayer, 
block  up  the  passage  of  heavenly  influence,  and  render  our 
sacrifice  an  abomination  to  the  Lord.  See  Mark  xi.  22 — 26 ; 
1  Pet.  ii.  1,  2;  Jas.  i.  19—21;  Matt.  xiii.  22.  Cain's  offering 
was  not  accepted,  for  he  had  in  his  heart  an  envy  to  his  brother, 
and  an  enmity  against  him.  Remember  therefore  that  word, 
Matt.  v.  23,  24.  Your  worship  and  services,  public  and  private, 
will  be  in  vain  and  to  no  purpose,  if  the  love  of  the  world,  and 
heart-burnings,  and  prejudices  against  the  brethren,  be  not  purged 
away  by  faith. 

4.  Faith  prepares  the  soul  for  duty,  and  helps  to  put  the  soul 
into  a  suitable  frame  and  posture;  for  God  works  an  inward 
solemnity  and  fixedness  upon  the  spirit,  and  forbids  a  rude,  hasty, 
and  inconsiderate  coming  into  the  presence  of  God.  Faith  makes 
the  soul  stand  at  the  door  a  while  by  serious  meditation,  and  to 
talk  within  itself  on  this  wise : — It  is  a  great  thing  to  draw  near 
to  God.  I  am  a  guilty  person,  unworthy  to  come  into  his  pre- 
sence, to  speak  to  him,  or  hear  him,  or  sit  down  with  him  at  his 
table.  This  vain,  worldly  heart  of  mine,  is  no  way  suited  to  his 
pure,  all-seeing  eye:  nor  will  his  exact  justice  bear  these  many 
debts  and  scores  of  mine  :  nor  will  his  holiness  endure  my  formal, 
lukewarm  temper,  that  am  so  little  affected  with  sin  when  I  confess 
it,  that  am  so  little  melted  with  mercy  when  I  make  mention  of  it, 
that  have  so  little  compassion  and  fellow-feeling  in  my  interces- 
sions, and  manifest  so  little  love,  and  delight,  and  joy  ;  but  on  the 
contrary,  a  slavish,  dull,  heavy,  straitened,  and  cmbondaged  spirit 
in  all  my  approaches  and  performances.  How  shall  I  do  to  appear 
before  him  ?  At  first  sight  he  will  discover  a  great  deal  amiss  in 
me  !  If  I  do  not  appear,  I  cannot  hide  myself  from  him  ;  besides 
he  has  commanded  me  to  appear,  and  it  will  be  disobedience  in  me 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  349 

if  I  do  not.  I  will  therefore  venture  into  his  presence,  and  take 
with  me  the  words  he  has  prescribed,  Hosea  xiv.  2,  3 ;  and  the 
words  of  the  prodigal,  which  gave  him  acceptance  with  his  father, 
Luke  xv.  18,  19. — And  thus  faith  helps  the  soul  to  take  the  advice 
given  by  Solomon,  Eccles.  v.  1,  2. 

5.  True  faith  watches  the  heart,  and  calls  it  to  an  account  after 
duty,  and  is  careful  to  observe  what  divine  impressions  are  made 
upon  it,  what  divine  teachings  are  rained  down  up  it,  what  gather- 
ings and  experiences  for  time  to  come,  and  what  humiliation  is 
necessary  for  defects  and  comings  short ;  and  endeavours  to  keep 
the  savour  of  God  fresh  upon  the  heart,  by  recollections  and  fre- 
quent spiritual  ejaculations,  with  fervent  longings  after  more 
enjoyment  of  God. 

6.  True  faith  does  all  it  does  in  the  name,  strength,  and  for  the 
honour  of  Christ.  Faith  speaks  in  the  apostle's  language,  /  can 
do  all  things  through  Christ  strengthening  me.  Faith  wrill  venture 
upon  the  greatest  and  hardest  service,  though  of  itself  it  cannot  act 
in  the  least,  Faith  prays,  and  reads,  and  hears,  and  meditates, 
and  gives  alms,  and  goes  about  the  occasions  of  calling,  and  family 
trade,  and  business,  and  all  under  the  name,  and  in  the  power  of 
the  Lord  Jesus,  and  likewise  to  his  praise  and  glory.  Faith  keeps 
the  eye  fixed  aright,  and  keeps  the  soul  clear  from  self,  squint- 
eyedness,  sinister  and  secular  respects  and  interests,  and  speaketh 
on  this  wise  : — If  I  can  but  glorify  God,  with  soul  and  body,  in  my 
generation,  it  is  all  I  aim  at.  I  would  have  every  action  of  mine, 
both  civil  and  religious,  to  have  an  aspect  upon  the  honour  of  my 
heavenly  Father.  My  Saviour  hath  done  all  for  me.  I  need  not 
work  for  myself,  all  my  service  must  be  for  him  ;  and  therein  lies 
my  interest,  and  salvation  too. 

That  you  and  I  may  be  enabled,  in  all  things,  by  true  faith,  to 
aim  directly  at  the  honour  and  interest  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  the 
propagation  of  his  gospel,  and  his  grace  in  our  hearts  and  lives, 
is  the  prayer  of 

Your  yet  surviving,  unworthy  brother,  though  a  prisoner, 

T.  Hardcastle. 


350  THE    RECORDS 

Twenty-third  Lord's  day  after  our  pastor's  second  imprison- 
ment, being  23d,  11th  month,  1675. 

The  twenty -second  and  last  letter  from  Mr.  Hardcastle. 

These  to  my  beloved  friends,  the  members  and  auditors  of  the 
congregation  meeting  in  Broadmead,  Bristol. 

11  m.  22  d.  1675-6. 

Dearly  Beloved  and  Longed-for, — I  am  now  coming  to  a 
period  of  conversing  with  you  by  writing.  I  hope  the  next  time, 
through  your  prayers,  and  the  supply  of  the  Spirit  of  Jesus,  to 
deliver  the  mind  and  message  of  Jehovah  unto  }^ou  by  speaking. 
For  a  close  therefore  to  the  discourse  about  faith,  I  shall  a  little 
take  into  consideration  that  excellent  and  full  phrase,  recorded 
Rom.  xvi.  26,  The  obedience  of  faith ;  which  words  I  shall  take 
notice  of  in  their  conjunction  and  order. 

I.  In  their  conjunction  and  connexion.  And  so  they  do  reci- 
procally and  mutually  embrace  and  uphold  each  other ;  there  is 
obedient  faith,  and  faithful  obedience. 

1.  An  obedient  faith.     This  manifests  itself, 

(1.)  In  its  assent  to  revealed  truths,  upon  the  sole  account  of 
the  authority,  testimony,  and  veracity  of  God,  although  they  are 
above  and  against  reason.  Reason  is  the  greatest  enemy  faith 
hath,  and  now  faith  obtaining  the  victory  makes  reason  obedient. 
See  1  Cor.  iii.  18 ;  2  Cor.  x.  45.  A  worthy  author  observes 
well,  that  a  greater  opposition  is  made  to  our  faith  by  our  reason, 
than  by  our  affections :  for  when  our  faith  is  encountered  by  our 
affections  we  do  gather  many  times  some  succour  from  our  reason  j 
but  when  our  faith  is  laid  at  by  our  reason,  the  temptation  is  not 
more  strong  than  dangerous.  For  if  our  reason  get  the  better  of 
our  faith,  in  any  particular,  our  affections  follow  amain  ;  and  such 
temptations,  where  they  once  take,  shake  and  stagger  the  strongest 
Christians.  Now  faith  makes  reason  obedient  to  it,  and  then  it 
becomes  obedient  to  God.  . 

(2.)  This  obedient  faith  discovers  itself  in   its  consent  to  and 


A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  351 

closing  with  promised  good,  notwithstanding  great  improbabilities, 
nay,  impossibilities,  (Rom.  iv.  18 — 21,)  personal  unworthiness, 
persisted-in  provocations,  great  transgressions,  frequent  neglects 
and  refusals,  and  manifold  backslidings.  This  faith  helps  the  soul 
to  take  what  God  offers,  though  he  does  not  deserve  it,  and  he 
knows  of  right  it  does  not  belong  to  him.  It  will  accept  of  a 
promise,  contrary  to  all  reason  and  right  reckoning,  because  God 
will  have  it.  If  the  Lord  will  love  me,  and  marry  me,  for  all  my 
blood,  and  filth,  and  wounds,  and  corruption,  and  will  bestow 
himself  upon  me,  and  beautify  me,  and  bring  me  to  live  with  him 
in  everlasting  glory,  I  must  not,  dare  not,  will  not  refuse  him, 
because  of  the  dirty,  doleful  pickle  I  am  in ;  but  let  him  wash  me, 
and  clothe  me,  and  do  what  he  will  with  me.  Blessed  be  his  name, 
I  will  follow  him,  and  observe  him,  and,  with  all  humility  and  grati- 
tude, accept  of  what  he  frankly  and  bountifully  bestows  upon  me. 

(3.)  This  obedient  faith  commends  itself  in  a  willing  observance 
of  the  Lord's  commands  and  calls,  notwithstanding  any  darkness, 
difficulty,  or  danger  that  may  seem  to  attend  the  performance  of 
them.  This  has  been  already  exemplified  in  the  case  of  Abraham, 
Heb.  xi.  3,  and  therefore  I  forbear  further  mention  of  it;  only 
adding  this,  that  the  obedient  faith  fixes  its  eye  upon  a  precept,  and 
will  mind  that,  whatever  the  providence  of  God,  or  the  prudence 
of  men,  may  seem  at  present  to  cast  in  the  way,  as  a  stumbling- 
block  and  hindrance.     There  is, 

II.  A  faithful  obedience,  as  well  as  an  obedient  faith ;  which 
shows  itself, 

First,  For  the  universality  of  it ;  in  having  respect  to  all 
God's  commandments  ;  Luke  i.  6. 

Secondly,  For  the  cheerfulness  of  it ;  doing  all  things  heartily 
and  freely,  without  murmurings  and  disputings. 

Thirdly,  In  the  singleness,  simplicity,  and  sincerity  of  it ; 
aiming  at,  and  designing,  the  honour  of  God,  conformity  to 
Christ,  edification  of  others,  meetness  for  glory. 

Fourthly,  In  the  constancy  of  it ;  not  turning  back,  nor  turn- 
ing aside,  nor  making  abatements ;  no  yielding  in  one  circum- 
stance, wherein  the  authority,  honour,  and  interest  of  God  and 


352  THE    RECORDS 

the  gospel,  may  be  in  the  least  touched  and  concerned.  Such 
was  Daniel's  obedience;  Dan.  vi.  10.  God  is  a  jealous  God, 
and  takes  notice  of  the  least  punctilios  about  his  worship ;  espe- 
cially in  two  cases  : — 

1 .  When  the  least  thing  is  done  without  his  warrant ;  upon  the 
account  of  human  invention,  or  imposition. 

2.  When  the  least  circumstance  is  omitted,  writh  respect  to  the 
fear  or  flattery  of  men  ;  not  regarding  so  much  his  displeasure, 
nor  trusting  in  his  almighty  power. 

Fifthly,  In  the  growth  of  it.  A  true  Christian  desires  to 
know  more  of  the  mind  and  will  of  God,  that  he  may  do  it ;  and 
he  does  it,  that  he  may  know  it.  The  formalist  and  the  hypo- 
crite, as  they  are  strangers  to  the  spirituality,  so  are  they  to  the 
extent  and  largeness  of  obedience.  We  come  very  much  short  in 
what  we  know  :  and  we  knowT  but  little  of  what  is  to  be  known. 

II.  I  come  to  consider  the  order  of  the  words ;  first  faith,  and 
then  obedience ;  obedience  from  faith  ;  for  without  faith  it  is  im- 
possible to  please  God.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  obedience,  if  it 
may  be  so  called,  of  worship,  service,  and  exercise.  Bodily 
exercise  is  to  be  found  amongst  idolaters,  but  it  proflteth  little ;  it 
pleaseth  not  at  all.  As  faith  without  works  of  obedience  is  dead, 
so  works  without  faith  cannot  be  living,  nor  acceptable  to  God. 
Gospel  obedience  is  bottomed  upon  faith,  and  the  new  covenant 
[is]  a  doing  from  life,  not  for  life ;  which  was  the  tenor  of  the 
first  covenant.  The  sum  is  this ;  faith  works  by  love,  unto  an 
universal,  cheerful,  sincere,  constant,  and  growing  obedience, 
according  to  the  pattern  and  rule  of  the  gospel ;  to  the  praise  and 
glory  of  the  rich  grace  and  love  of  God  in  Christ  Jesus  our 
Lord  ;  to  whom  be  power  and  dominion  for  ever.     Amen. 

And  now,  my  dearly  beloved,  should  not  we  pray  fervently, 
that  we  may  not  be  deceived  with  a  counterfeit,  instead  of  a  true 
faith  ?  The  Lord  write  all  these  characters  upon  our  hearts,  or 
else  it  were  better  they  had  never  been  writ  on  paper ;  for  they 
will  be  evidences  and  witnesses  against  us  upon  record.  We  have 
been  for  above  twelve  months  closely  persecuted  ;  we  have  great 
cause  both  of  humiliation  and  thanksgiving. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  353 

1.  Of  the  former,  that  our  sins  should  provoke  the  Lord  to 
permit  it,  and  lengthen  it  out  so  much  ;  that  we  have  got  no  more 
advantage  by  our  affliction,  and  our  dross  and  corruption  no  more 
purged  away  ;  that  we  have  not  followed  the  Lord,  in  this  suffer- 
ing path,  with  more  cheerfulness  and  gladness,  but  have  been 
under  so  many  faintings,  and  fears,  and  doubtings,  and  perplexing 
thoughts ;  that  we  have  engaged  the  enemies  of  God  too  much 
in  our  own  strength,  and  have  not  made  more  use  of  gospel 
weapons  in  this  spiritual  warfare  ;  and  for  many  things  more, 
which,  upon  a  due  and  diligent  examination  of  ourselves,  we 
shall  quickly  understand. 

2.  Ground,  likewise,  we  have  of  much  thanksgiving,  that  we 
are  yet  alive;  that  we  are  not  given  up  to  the  wills  of  our 
enemies,  though  we  have  been  in  their  hands;  that  the  Lord  has 
blessed  us  in  any  degree,  or  measure^  to  bear  a  testimony  to  his 
ways  and  worship;  that  we  have  not  fallen  down  before  our 
adversaries  ;  that  the  gospel  hath  not  lost,  but  gotten  ground  by 
our  sufferings.  Beloved,  it  is  now  a  season  for  suffering;  this 
season  may  quickly  be  over.  Let  us  be  willing  to  honour  the 
Lord  in  that  way  he  would  have  us.  Let  us  not  cross  the  method 
and  course  of  divine  pleasure.  Let  us  follow  and  observe  the 
vein  of  the  cross  as  far  as  it  goes,  and  not  make  a  peace  for  our- 
selves by  such  means  as  God  would  not  have  us  use,  and  before 
he  thinks  it  good  for  us.  When  tranquillity  and  liberty  shall  be 
best  for  us,  we  shall  quickly  have  it.  The  providence  of  God 
will  quickly  make  all  fair  weather.  In  the  mean  time,  let  us 
bless  God  for  any  mitigation,  any  relaxation,  any  intervals  of 
calmness  ;  but  whilst  the  wind  sits  in  the  quarter  where  it  does, 
let  us  not  promise  ourselves  a  total  immunity  from  trouble ;  and, 
therefore,  let  us  keep  the  plain  even  path  wherein  we  have  met 
with,  and  may  still  promise  ourselves,  the  Lord's  presence  and 
assistance.  But  if  we  once  deviate,  through  the  insinuations  of 
carnal  reason  and  prudence,  though  but  in  a  circumstance,  we 
know  not  where  we  may  stop,  and  whether  we  may  not  be  left  to  be 
weakened  and  bewildered,  by  our  own  counsels,  besides  losing  the 
efficacy  of  all  our  past  sufferings.     None  can  be  more  desirous  to 

A    A 


354  THE    RECORDS 

avoid  trouble  than  myself,  but  I  dare  not  sin  against  conscience 
to  procure  ease,  and  safety,  and  freedom,  for  the  outward  man. 

I  shall  conclude  with  a  quotation  out  of  The  Call  to  Archippus, 
writ  by  a  nonconformist  minister,  stirring  up  his  brethren  to 
preach  publicly,  though  persecutions,  and  fines,  and  imprison- 
ments lay  in  the  way.  l  Hath  Christ  suffered  for  us/  he  says, 
*  both  as  our  surety  and  as  our  pattern  ?  And  have  we  such  a 
cloud  of  martyrs  that  have  so  stoutly  led  the  van,  and  shall  wo 
shift  off,  or  shuffle  in  our  work,  for  fear  of  persecution  ?  View 
the  encouraging  promises  which  Christ  hath  made  to  sufferers  for 
his  name.  Are  not  these  the  very  things  which  we  have  over  and 
over  preached  and  pressed  on  our  people  ?  and  shall  we  make  them 
believe  by  our  flinching,  our  hitching,  palliating,  daubing,  and 
compounding,  merely  to  avoid  the  cross,  that  those  things  were 
not  so  ?  Are  these  things  true,  or  are  they  not  ?  If  not,  why 
have  we  taught  them  ?  If  they  be,  why  do  we  not  live  up  to 
them  ?  Oh,  that  we  did  but  act  as  if  ourselves  had  believed  in 
what  we  have  preached !  Will  it  not  be  a  real  confutation  of 
what  we  have  taught,  concerning  the  blessed  advantage  and  glory 
of  the  cross,  if  we,  when  put  to  it,  shall  decline  the  cross,  not- 
withstanding all  the  blessedness  we  made  people  believe  we 
thought  to  be  in  it  ?  God  forbid  that  we  should  tempt  men  to 
atheism  and  infidelity,  and  make  them  believe  there  is  no  more  in 
preaching,  no  more  in  promises,  than  a  flourishing  talk.'  8  Thus 
far  that  worthy  minister;  and  much  more  he  has  to  the  same 
effect.  Pray  earnestly  for  me,  that  I  may  come  to  you  again  in 
public  in  the  fulness  of  the  blessing  of  the  gospel ;  and  that,  if  it 
be  the  good  pleasure  of  God,  an  effectual  door  of  liberty  may  be 
opened.  However,  that  we  may  be  fitted  and  prepared  for  what- 
ever dispensations  the  Lord,  in  his  way,  work,  and  wisdom,  shall 
be  pleased  to  bring  us  under ;  that  we  may  know  our  duty,  and 
be  enabled  to  keep  close  to  it,  to  the  glory  of  his  name,  the 
propagation  of  the  gospel  (J  .   .   .   . 

8  [An  Alarm  for  London  :  to  awake       mon,agodly  Christian.  Lond.  4to,  1643.] 
and  mourn  for  sin,  &c.,  in  a  dialogue  be-  9  [The  closing  sentence  is  lost  from 

tween  Archippus,  a  minister,  and  Phile-       the  manuscript.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  355 

Now  ends  our  pastor's  second  imprisonment  for  six 
months ;  namely,  twenty-eight  days  to  the  month,  which  the 
law  allows,  not  to  count  calendar  months,  for  so  it  was  not 
expired.  But  six  months,  according  to  the  satisfying  of  the 
law,  being  expired,  our  pastor,  Mr.  Hardcastle,  would  not 
abate  the  adversary  one  hour ;  he  being  carried  away  to 
prison  that  day  six  [times]  twenty-eight  days,  between  nine 
and  ten  in  the  morning,  he  comes,  at  the  expiration  of 
twenty-four  weeks,1  which  is  according  to  law,  at  the  same 
hour,  into  our  public  meeting,  and  preacheth  openly,  as 
before,  in  the  morning ;  brother  Terrill  having  begun  the 
meeting  with  prayer,  and  by  that  time,  before  he  had  done, 
our  pastor  came  in,  and  preached,  and  was  quiet.  And  so  in 
the  afternoon  again,  and  not  disturbed  by  the  informers. 
Praise  be  to  the  Lord,  that  discouraged  the  adversary,  and  gave 
such  a  spirit  of  courage  to  our  pastor  under  all  his  circum- 
stances of  trouble,  time  after  time,  not  only  from  foes,  but 
from  friends  with  arguments  for  prudence,  so  called ;  but 
he  accounted  his  still  persevering,  with  Daniel,  in  open 
duty,  the  best  policy  and  safety. 

The  next  Lord's  day,  being  sixth  of  twelfth  month,  1675, 
[February,  1676],  our  pastor  keeps  on  in  public  preaching 
with  us  as  formerly,  and  we  were  quiet  all  day.  Praise  be 
to  the  Lord  ;  which  we  take  as  an  earnest  of  further  liberty. 
This  day,  in  our  public  meeting-place,  after  the  multitude 
departed,  the  church-members  staying,  notice  is  given  to  the 
church,  by  the  pastor,  for  keeping  next  third  day  of  the 
week  a  day  of  prayer,  in  order  to  the  next  Lord's  day,  in 
our  monthly  day,  to  break  bread.  And  now,  this  sixth 
of  the  twelfth  month,  two  are  proposed  to  join  with  the 
church,   namely,    Mr.   Hill,    one   of    the   hearers   that   was 

1  [That   is,    on   the    30th    January,       committal,  August    15th,    1675.      See 
1675-6.     He  had  been  in  prison  just       before,  p,  253.] 
twenty-four  weeks  from  the  date  of  his 

A   A    2 


356  THE    RECORDS 

imprisoned,   and   Mrs.   Orchard,   one  of  the  hearers  whose 
goods  were  distrained  for  meeting. 

On  the  12th  of  first  month,  1675-[6],  the  bishop  coming 
home  from  Dorsetshire,  he  sends  a  letter  to  the  mayor,  Sir 
Robert  Cann,  to  inform  him,  and  stir  him  up  to  disturb  the 
castle  meeting  (Mr.  Thompson's,  deceased) ;  who  this  day 
sent  some  constables  and  a  serjeant,  with  a  warrant,  to  them ; 
who,  when  they  came  there,  and  read  their  warrant,  which 
acquainted  them  of  the  bishop's  information,  and  therefore 
desired  them  to  depart,  the  officers  went  away  without  any 
more  trouble.  But  we  were  quiet  hitherto,  ever  since  our 
pastor  came  forth,  the  second  time  aforesaid,  out  of  prison. 
Praise  be  to  the  Lord  ! 

Upon  the  14th  of  March,  first  month,  1675,  at  our  day 
of  prayer  in  order  to  the  Lord's  supper,  the  four  persons 
before  propounded  were  spoken  with ;  namely,  Mr.  Roger 
Hill,  Mrs.  Orchard,  Mary  Mallard,  and  Mary  Phillips.  They 
declared,  before  the  whole  congregation,  how  the  Lord 
wrought  upon  them,  and  how  they  came  to  be  converted. 

At  the  same  instant,  three  more,  that  had  desires  to  join 
with  the  church,  did  then  propound  to  join ;  namely,  Grace 
Parsons,  servant  to  sister  Yanatturne  deceased,  and  one 
Goodwife  Mary  Hughes  of  Horfield,  and  one  Mrs.  Combe 
of  Horfield,  daughter  of  Mr.  Dorny,  town-clerk  of  Glouces- 
ter. These,  likewise,  at  the  same  hour,  declared  what  God 
had  done  for  their  souls. 

With  five  of  these  seven,  namely,  first  named,  the  church 
were  all  satisfied  to  receive  them  the  next  Lord's  day,  at 
breaking  bread ;  but  the  two  last,  namely,  Goody  Hughes 
and  Mrs.  Combe,  though  in  some  measure  satisfied  with 
them,  yet  the  church  will  not  admit  them  at  present,  until 
they  have  some  further  acquaintance  with  their  spirits,  this 
being  but  the  first  day  they  knew  of  their  desire's  to  join. 
Wherefore  our  pastor  is  ordered  to  desire  them  to  wait  some 
time,  as  the  rest  had  done. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  357 

Upon  loth  of  the  first  month,  1675,  these  four  were 
baptized;  namely,  Mrs.  Orchard,  Grace  Parsons,  Mary 
Mallard,  and  Mary  Phillips. 

Upon  the  19th  instant,  being  the  Lord's  day,  at  our  break- 
ing of  bread,  in  our  public  meeting-place  in  Broadmead, 
these  five  were  added  members  to  this  congregation  ;  namely, 
Mr.  Roger  Hill,  Mrs.  Orchard,  Grace  Parsons,  Mary  Mal- 
lard, and  Mary  Phillips. 

Upon  the  20th  day,  first  month,  1675,  Jane  Fry  de- 
ceased, and  [was]  interred  the  23rd  day  at  John's  Yard. 

Anno  1676. 

Upon  the  26th  of  the  first  month,  or  March,  1676,  being 
the  Lord's  day,  being  in  peace,  and  in  hopes  that  persecution 
here  was  over  for  a  time,  our  elders,  with  the  brethren,  order 
that  our  church-meeting  [be  held]  after  the  sermon,  once  a 
fortnight,  for  the  members  to  stay,  and  the  members'  names 
to  be  called  over,  to  see  who  neglect  their  duty  in  assem- 
bling, and  thereby  then  to  have  an  opportunity  to  rectify 
other  defects  in  any. 

Upon  16th  of  the  second  month,  April,  1676,  being  the 
Lord's  day,  after  the  afternoon  sermon,  the  members  of  the 
church  staying,  these  five  persons  were  propounded  to  join 
with  the  church,  they  having  before  been  with  the  pastor 
and  desired  it;  namely,  Mrs.  Phelpes,  Mrs.  Mosely,  Good- 
wife  Cott,  Elizabeth  Smith,  Cary's  maid. 

Upon  the  18th  day,  at  a  day  of  prayer,  in  order  to 
breaking  bread,  these  three,  namely,  Mrs.  Phelpes,  Mrs. 
Moseley,  and  Elizabeth  Smith,  made  their  declaration  of 
their  conversion,  and  the  work  of  God  upon  their  souls ;  the 
church  was  satisfied  therewith  to  receive  them. 

Upon  the  22  nd  day  of  the  second  month,  1676,  Good  wife 
Mary  Hughes,  and  Mrs.  Combe,  were  baptized  in  the  river 
Frome,  by  brother  Terries  house. 


358  THE    RECORDS 

Upon  the  23rd  day,  being  the  Lord's  day,  at  breaking  of 
bread  in  our  public  meeting-house,  these  were  received 
members,  namely,  said  sister  Mary  Hughes  of  Horfield, 
sister  Combe,  sister  Phelpes,  with  sister  Mosely. 

Upon  the  ninth  of  third  month,  1676,  at  our  monthly  day 
of  prayer,  our  pastor  being  gone  to  Yorkshire,  aged  Mr. 
Robertson,  husband  to  our  late  deceased  sister,  was  pro- 
pounded to  join  with  the  congregation. 

Upon  second  day  of  the  fifth  month,  1676,  at  a  church- 
meeting  on  the  Lord's  day,  after  the  afternoon  sermon,  in 
our  public  place  in  Broadmead,  said  Mr.  Robertson  gave  his 
declaration  before  the  whole  church,  how  the  Lord  wrought 
upon  him  in  his  old  age,  being  above  seventy  years  old ;  the 
church  was  satisfied  to  receive  him. 

Upon  the  seventh  of  the  fifth  month,  1676,  the  said  Mr. 
John  Robertson,  and  Elizabeth  Smith,  were  baptized  in  the 
river  Frome.  Mr.  Robertson  was  very  aged,  and  very 
feeble,  weak,  and  short-breathed.  Wherefore  some  dis- 
couraged him  not  to  take  up  the  ordinance  of  baptism ; 
whereupon  he  was  in  some  fear,  and  would  put  [it]  off";  but 
he  being  persuaded  it  was  a  Christian's  duty,  some  advised 
him  to  trust  in  the  Lord  for  strength  to  yield  obedience  to 
his  own  command,  and  for  preservation  in  it.  And  so  he  did 
resolve  not  to  tarry  longer,  and  then  he  was  baptized,  and 
received  no  harm,  notwithstanding  his  age  and  great  weak- 
ness. Praise  be  to  the  Lord !  And  upon  the  ninth  day  of 
the  fifth  month  following,  at  the  Lord's  supper,  he  was 
admitted  a  member  of  this  congregation ;  and  also  Elizabeth 
Smith. 

Upon  the  second  day  of  the  eighth  month,  1676,  sister 
Joan  Ewins,  widow,  deceased,  aged  seventy  years,  the  relict 
of  our  late  dear  pastor,  Thomas  Ewins ;  which  was  about  six 
years  and  a  half  after  her  said  husband's  decease. 

Upon  the   26th    of    the    eighth   month,    1676,    after   the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  359 

sermon  upon  the  fifth  clay  of  the  week,  at  our  public 
meeting-place  in  Broadmead,  the  brethren  stayed  that 
were  then  present,  whose  names  are  underwritten,  and  con- 
sidered of  the  providence  that  now  presented,  of  five  elders 
and  brethren  that  were  coming  down  from  London,  to  visit  a 
neighbouring  church  in  the  country,  about  fifteen  miles  off, 
near  Bradford  or  Trowbridge,  to  settle  some  disorder  there, 
as  the  pastor  thereof,  T.  C,  holding  forth  some  unsound 
doctrine,  or  new  notions,  contrary  to  the  general  reception  of 
sound  and  orthodox  men.  The  names  of  the  London 
brethren  were,  brother  Kiffin,  brother  Deane,  brother  Fitten, 
brother  Cox,2  and  brother  Moreton.  Now  the  brethren  all 
agreed  it  would  be  a  fit  opportunity  for  us  to  invite  them  to 
Bristol,  when  so  near,  to  ordain  our  pastor,  brother  Thomas 
Hardcastle. 

The  brethren  present  were, 

Brother  King,  Brother  Child, 

Brother  Jennings,  Brother  Bryan, 

Brother  Gwilliam,  Brother  Willis, 

Brother  Ford,  Brother  Thos.  Jones, 

Brother  Dickason,  Brother  Bodenham, 

Brother  Fry,  Brother  Evans, 

Brother  Snead,  Brother  Town, 

Brother  Dennis,  Brother  Purnell, 

Brother  Bland,  Brother  Morgan, 

Brother  Lewis,  Brother  Hall, 

Brother  Kivers,  Brother  Terrill. 

These  brethren  concluded  and  appointed  brother  Gwilliam, 
brother  Rivers,    brother   Dickason,    brother   Jennings,    and 

2  [Probably  Dr.  Nehemiah  Cox,  whom  the  following  year  assisted  at  the  ordi- 

Dr.  Du  Veil  thus  characterizes  : — "  That  nation  of  Mr.  Andrew  Gifford,  at  the 

great  divine,  eminent  for  all  manner  of  Pithay. — Ivimey,   ii.  403,   546.       Du 

learning."     He  was  at  this  time  pastor  Veil,  Lit.  Expl.  of  the  Acts,  p.  92.] 
of  the  church  in  Petty  France,  and  in 


360  THE    RECORDS 

brother  Terrill,  to  go  from  them  to  our  said  pastor  elect,  and 
desire  his  concurrence  with  them  to  send  to  those  London 
brethren,  when  come  down,  to  come  hither  the  next  week; 
and  that  a  day  for  fasting  and  prayer  be  appointed  by  the 
church,  principally  to  ordain  him  pastor  to  this  church,  by 
laying  on  of  hands ;  that  so  those  elders  from  London,  at  the 
request  of  the  church,  may  join  with  the  church  in  the  said 
work. 

Answer. — Those  brethren  and  elders  that  came  to  Trow- 
bridge from  London,  when  they  had  done  there,  could  not  be 
prevailed  with  to  come  to  Bristol,  because  of  great  personal 
concerns  at  home,  but  returned  to  London:  and  so  ordi- 
nation was  deferred. 

Upon  the  12th  day  of  the  ninth  month,  anno  1676,  at  our 
breaking  bread  in  Broadmead,  Mrs.  Anne  Hardcastle,  our 
pastor's  wife,  and  sister  Barbara  Whitehead,  brother  White- 
head's wife,  being  both  members  of  two  churches  in  London, 
were,  by  letters  of  recommendation,  admitted  into  the  con- 
gregation, fellowship,  and  to  breaking  of  bread. 

Mrs.  Hardcastle's  letter  was  from  Mr.  Thomas  Vincent, 
pastor  of  a  congregation  in  London,3  who  is  a  reputed  pres- 
byterian ;  but  as  we  do,  so  [do]  they.  That  church  doth 
admit  members,  namely, 

First,  Upon  inquiry  of  the  parties'  knowledge  of  God, 
and  the  doctrines  of  salvation. 

Secondly,  Upon  inquiry  of  the  work  of  grace  upon  their 
hearts. 

Thirdly,  Upon  inquiry  of  a  good  and  blameless  conver- 
sation. 

3  [He  was  ejected  from  the  living  of  man  of  eminent  piety  and  great  humi- 

Milk  Street,  London,  on  Bartholomew  lity.      His   congregation    assembled  in 

day,  and  became  particularly  eminent  New  Broatl  Street,  Petty  France.     It 

for  his  perilous  labours  during  the  great  is  now  extinct.  Wilson's  Diss.  Churches, 

plague,  visiting  the  sick,  and  ministering  ii.  193.] 
to  the  wants  of  the  dying,     lie  was  a 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  361 

These  three  things  his  letter  did  express. 

Sister  Whitehead  had  no  letter  to  us,  but  there  was  a 
letter  of  recommendation  for  her  to  brother  Gifford,4  from 
Mr.  Kiffin's  congregation ;  but  she  was  not  willing  to  sit 
down  with  them,  but  with  us. 

Upon  the  fifth  day  of  the  10th  month,  1676,  Good  wife 
Knight,  in  Baldwin  Street,  and  the  widow  Hickman,  were 
both  propounded,  being  our  monthly  day  of  prayer ;  and  they 
were  spoken  with  at  the  same  time,  and  gave  their  declaration 
of  the  work  of  God  upon  their  hearts.  Both  of  them  [were] 
ancient,  or  long  hearers  and  attenders  upon  the  means  of 
grace.  The  first,  Good  wife  Knight,  spake  but  little,  though 
very  serious,  grave,  and  sober  ;  the  widow  Hickman,  a  woman 
of  many  temptations,  [was]  liberal  in  her  speech,  and  experi- 
ence. The  congregation  declared  their  satisfaction  for  both 
their  admission  into  the  congregation ;  but  some  desired  that 
they  might  be  made  to  wait  some  time  yet  on  the  congre- 
gation before  admitted,  to  try  their  spirits  and  to  inquire  into 
their  conversations. 

Upon  the  31st  of  10th  month,  1676,  brother  King,  that 
had  for  about  eight  or  nine  years  walked  with  us,  by  virtue  of 
a  letter  of  recommendation  from  a  church  in  London,  wras  this 
day  wholly  added  to  the  care,  and  oversight,  and  power  of 
this  congregation,  as  a  member  of  it  and  of  no  other  congrega- 
tion, by  virtue  of  a  letter  of  dismission  from  the  said  church 
in  London,  walking  with  Mr.  Palmer,5  pastor,  to  this  congre- 
gation, walking  with  Mr.  Hardcastle ;  which  letter  was  read 


4  [Although  not  ordained  till  the  gation  in  London,  which  met  at  Pinner's 
next  year,  Mr.  Gifford  had  exercised  Hall.  He  was  held  in  high  esteem  for 
for  some  years  the  office  of  pastor,  as-  his  piety  and  worth.  Mr.  Geo.  Fownes, 
sisting  the  aged  and  infirm  but  holy  the  successor  of  Mr.  Hardcastle,  was  for 
man,  Henry  Hynam,  who  died  in  1679.]  a  time  his  assistant.     He  died  in  1678. 

5  [He  was  forcibly  ejected  from  the  He  was  also  the  author  of  several  excel- 
rich  living  of  Bourton-on-the- Water  at  lent  works  on  practical  godliness. — 
the  Restoration,  and  gathered  a  congre-  Wilson's  Diss.  Ch.  ii.  256.] 


362  THE    RECORDS 

to  the  congregation,  who  stayed  after  the  public  assembly  was 
departed,  after  the  afternoon  sermon  this  Lord's  day. 

Upon  the  seventh  of  the  11th  month,  1676,  sister  Martha 
Suter,  who  had  walked  some  few  months  with  this  congrega- 
tion,  by  virtue  of  the  communion  of  churches,  being  a  member 
of  the  congregation  about  Llantrission,  was  this  day  added  as 
a  member  of  this  congregation,  by  a  letter  from  the  said 
church  to  this,  who  did  commit  her  to  the  care  and  watch  of  • 
this  church. 

Memorandum. — That  31st  10th  month,  1676,  before  men- 
tioned, being  Lord's  day,  was  the  first  day  of  our  pastor's 
(brother  Hardcastle)  changing  and  preaching  at  the  Castle,  in 
the  morning,  once  a  month,  for  them ;  and  their  pastor  (Mr. 
Way6),  at  the  same  morning,  changing  and  preaching 
with  us. 

This  day  some  trouble  began  again — having  had  just  a  year 
in  our  meetings  free  from  trouble ;  for  [on]  the  second  of  the 
11th  month,  1675,  were  the  last  Lord's  day  troubles — by 
threatenings,  and  often  expecting  them ;  and  some  of  our 
presbyterian  friends,  two,  were  excommunicated,  Mr.  Chock 
and  Greenway,  and  writs  upon  the  excommunication  sent  for 
them  last  term.  And  some  of  our  brethren,  as  brother 
Bodenham  among  others,  [were]  under  proceedings  for  excom- 
munication, but  our  meetings  quiet ;  only  this  day,  7th 
January,  1676,  two  Serjeants  were  sent  to  Mr.  Weeks's 
meeting. 

Upon  the  14th  day  11th  month,  1676  [January,  1677],  the 
bishop  sends  to  the  mayor  with  information  of  our  meetings, 
and  gets  warrants;  which  the  mayor  sent  to  the  constables, 
(and  sent  not  his  Serjeants,)  who  went,  as  it  were  for  a  show, 


6  [Mr.  Benjamin  Way  succeeded  his  ejectment  from  the  rectory  of  Staf- 
Mi'.  Thompson,  lie  was  educated  at  ford  in  Dorsetshire,  at  Dorchester.  He 
Oxford,  and  lived  for  some  time  after       died  Nov.  9,  1680.— Palmer,  i.  474.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  363 

to  brother  Gifford's  meeting,  before  they  began  in  the  after- 
noon, and  so  departed. 

Upon  the  Lord's  day,  being  the  eleventh  day  of  the  12th 
month,  1676  [February,  1677],  sister  Knight  and  sister 
Hickman  were  added  members  of  this  congregation,  at  break- 
ing bread  in  our  public  meeting-place. 

Anno  1677. 

Upon  the  sixth  day  1st  month,  1676-7,  at  our  monthly  day 
of  prayer,  in  order  to  the  Lord's  supper,  this  sad  occasion 
happened.  Brother  Tho.  Jacob,  a  member  of  this  congrega- 
tion, had  of  late  declined  his  duty,  and  neglected  the  assem- 
bling of  himself  with  the  congregation  [not]  only  Lord's  days, 
but  very  seldom  on  the  week-day  meeting,  or  at  days  of 
prayer;  and  also  he  had  been  observed  to  have  drunk  too 
much,  so  that  he  did  reel,  and  was  drunk  more  than  twice ; 
kept  bad  company,  and  proceeded  to  bad  words  in  his  drink. 
Of  which,  some  of  the  members  that  saw  it  or  heard  of  it,  did 
go  to  him  after  the  first  time,  and  tell  him  of  it,  between  that 
person  and  himself  alone.  He  seemed  to  be  sorry  for  it,  and 
repent  of  it ;  but  falling  again  another  time,  and  that  brother 
hearing  of  it,  he  took  two  or  three  other  brethren  with  him, 
seeing  by  his  actions  he  did  not  hearken  to  his  private  admo- 
nition, and  they  admonished  him  of  his  sin,  and  exhorted  him 
to  his  duty ;  and  at  his  house  in  a  room  by  themselves,  at  that 
time,  they  prayed  with  him,  and  he  seemed  to  be  sorry  for  his 
evil,  and  to  repent  of  it  in  words.  But  he  was  observed  again 
to  be  in  drink,  pretty  late  at  night  at  an  inn ;  this  coming  to 
the  ears  of  the  church,  being  revealed  to  one  of  the  elders  of 
the  congregation,  two  were  sent  to  said  brother  Jacob  to  order 
him  to  be  at  the  church-meeting  this  day  sevennight  last, 
which  was  also  a  day  of  prayer  upon  an  extraordinary 
occasion ;  but  he  came  not.  Therefore  the  church  sent  two 
brethren  again  to  said  brother  Jacob,  to  acquaint  him  that  he 


364  THE    RECORDS 

must  attend  the  church-meeting  this  day,  and  that  if  he  did 
not  come  it  would  hasten  their  proceeding  to  cast  him  out  of 
the  church;  so  he  came.  And  being  present,  in  the  after 
part  of  the  day,  after  five  or  six  brethren  had  prayed,  and 
some  spake  short  in  the  interims  of  prayer,  and  when  none 
there  but  the  members  of  the  congregation,  the  pastor  calls 
for  the  said  brother  to  draw  near  the  table ;  and  by  reason  he 
had  before  received  the  private  admonition,  and  secondly  the 
witnessing  admonition,  the  said  pastor  proceeds  to  give  him 
the  church's  admonition.  Which,  after  Ins  two  evils  (1st,  of 
his  neglecting  due  attendance  to  the  meetings  of  the  church ; 
2nd,  of  drunkenness)  were  laid  to  his  charge,  and  he  not  deny- 
ing them,  but  confessing  the  matters  of  fact  (here  the  church 
must  be  asked,  after  the  charge  declared  to  them,  and  charged 
upon  him,  whether  they  did  all  agree  he  should  have  a 
church  admonition  from  them?  which  they  show  by  their 
silence)  laid  to  his  charge,  which,  if  he  had  denied,  the  elders 
could  prove  it,  for  they  had  the  matters  of  fact  writ  down  in 
two  several  papers:  the  time  when,  and  places  where  done, 
and  the  words  spoken,  and  who  [were]  witnesses,  by  those 
brethren  to  whom  the  knowledge  of  it  came,  and  that  had 
dealt  with  him  as  aforesaid  for  it.  Which  one  of  the  elders 
ordered  to  be  done,  and  prepared  it,  and  did  look  that  those 
brethren  that  told  of  it  had  first  done  their  duty  towards  him, 
before  it  should  be  brought  before  the  church,  that  so  he 
might  have  no  opportunity  to  complain  of  a  disorderly  dealing 
with  him ;  but  that  he  might  be  regularly  proceeded  with,  to 
the  end  he  might  be  throughly  convinced  of  his  sin,  and 
reclaimed  from  it ;  which  is  the  end  of  Christ's  command  for 
dealing.  So  that  after  the  charge  aforesaid  [was]  laid  to 
him,  the  pastor  laboured  to  show  the  evil  nature,  danger,  and 
consequence  of  the  sin  unto  him,  before  all  the  congregation. 
Then  he  pronounced  the  sentence  in  the  name  of  our  Lord 
tlcsus    Christ,    and    this   congregation ;    to     which    all    the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  365 

brethren  put  off  their  hats,  the  sisters  not  to  sit  but  to  stand 
up,  when  he  began  so  to  speak: — That  he  did  admonish  him, 
the  said  brother  Jacob,  of  those  two  sins — forsaking  the 
assembling  of  himself  with  the  church,  and  of  drunkenness. 

Then,  after  it  was  demanded  of  him  whether  he  did  repent 
of  it,  he  declared  he  did ;  and  answered,  he  did  hope  the  Lord 
would  give  him  strength,  for  time  to  come,  against  it.  Then, 
seeing  he  did  submit,  one  of  the  elders  declared  to  him,  the 
church  would  wait  some  time  to  see  if  he  did  bring  forth 
fruits  meet  for  repentance,  and  bid  him  take  notice  and 
understand,  he  was  not  cast  out  of  the  church,  but  stood  only 
under  the  church's  admonition,  hoping  he  would  amend,  and 
not  give  them  ground  to  proceed  further  with  him  to  final 
rejection,  but  to  restoration. 

After  all  this,  the  same  day,  there  were  three  persons,  upon 
their  desire,  propounded  to  join  with  the  congregation, 
namely, 

1.  Mr.  Kineton's  daughter,  named  Joyce  Kineton. 

2.  A  dark  woman,  that  lives  on  Austin's  Back,  named 
Atkins. 

3.  A  poor  woman,  named  Sarah  Edwards. 

These  were  proposed  to  join  with  this  congregation,  the 
sixth  day  of  1st  month,  1676-7. 

Upon  the  eighth  day  of  the  2nd  month,  1677,  being  the 
Lord's  day,  and  our  day  of  breaking  bread,  at  the  close 
of  that  ordinance  these  two  were  propounded  to  join,  viz., 
Thomas  Amy,  a  baker,  and  Ann  Vaughan,  servant  to 
brother  Terrill.  Their  desire  to  join  to  the  church  was 
declared  to  the  congregation,  and  then  we  ended  with 
prayer. 

Upon  the  twenty-second  day  of  the  2nd  month,  1677,  a 
blazing  star  was  seen  here  in  Bristol  by  one  of  our  congrega- 
tion, brother  Towne,  and  some  others,  between  two  and  three 
in  the  morning.     By  his  description,  [it]  should  rise  north- 


366  THE    RECORDS 

east,  the  tail  bending  south  south-west.  This  was  seen  divers 
days  here  by  some,  and  at  London  also. 

Upon  the  first  day  of  the  3rd  month,  1677,  being  our 
monthly  day  of  prayer  before  the  supper,  these  six  persons 
following,  that  had  been  most  long  before  propounded  to  join 
with  this  congregation,  they  now  gave  their  several  declara- 
tions of  the  work  of  God  upon  their  spirits,  all  declaring 
they  were  born  again,  and  the  manner  how  God  wrought 
the  change  upon  their  hearts,  and  that  brought  them 
to  believe  upon  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ ;  viz.,  Thomas 
Amy,  Goodwife  Atkins,  Sarah  Edwards,  Joyce  Kineton, 
Anne  Yaughan.  Also  Mrs.  Rowley  was  this  day  pro- 
pounded, and  spoken  with  at  the  same  time,  after  the  rest. 

Note. — Mrs.  Rowley,  for  some  months  before,  had  declared 
to  brother  Hardcastle  and  brother  Terrill  her  desires  to  join ; 
but  her  circumstances  were  such,  by  opposite  relations  to  the 
truth,  that  we  did  not  propound  her  publicly  to  the  church  at 
no  other  meeting  before,  until  this  day  that  she  was  spoken 
with  by  the  church,  at  their  being  entirely  together  :  and 
then  she  declared  how  she  came  to  be  convinced  of  sin,  and  to 
close  in  with  Christ. 

After  they  were  withdrawn  a  little  while,  the  church  dis- 
coursed about  them  between  themselves,  and  upon  the  whole, 
in  the  judgment  of  charity,  did  hope  they  were  sincere ;  there- 
fore sent  for  them  in,  and  the  pastor,  in  the  name  of  the 
church,  declared  the  church's  satisfaction  to  receive  them  as 
members.      This  meeting  was  at  brother  Terrill's  house. 

Upon  the  second  day  of  the  3rd  month,  1677,  these  three 
of  those  above  mentioned  were  baptized  at  brother  Terrill's, 
in  the  river  by  his  house;  viz.,  Thomas  Amy,  Goodwife 
Atkins,  and  Anne  Vaughan. 

Upon  the  sixth  day  of  3rd  month,  1677,  being  the  Lord's 
day,  and  our  monthly  day  for  breaking  bread,  after  the  after- 
noon sermon  in  our  public  meeting-place  in  Broadmead,  when 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  367 

the  bread  and  wine  lay  on  the  table  in  order  to  celebrate  the 
Lord's  supper,  just  before  the  entrance  of  that  ordinance, 
these  six  persons  before  mentioned  were  admitted  into  this 
congregation;  and  by  our  pastor,  brother  Hardcastle, 
according  to  our  usual  manner,  the  privileges  and  duties  [were] 
declared  to  them  how  they  ought  to  behave  themselves  in  the 
house  of  God,  one  towards  another,  to  receive  and  give 
reproof,  according  to  Matt,  xviii.  lo — 18,  and  towards  them 
that  are  set  over  them.  In  all  which  they  are  referred  to 
Christ,  their  great  prophet's  rules  in  the  holy  scripture,  and 
to  the  guidance  of  his  Holy  Spirit ;  that  they  must  hearken  to 
Christ  as  their  teacher,  and  obey  him  as  their  king,  as  well  as 
take  him  to  be  their  priest  to  make  atonement  to  save  them. 
And  then  the  pastor  names  them,  one  by  one,  they  standing 
up  all  the  while  in  the  midst  of  the  congregation,  and  so  at 
last  declares  them  members,  in  the  name  of  Christ  and  this 
church,  saying,  We  give  you  the  right  hand  of  fellowship  as 
members  of  this  church ;  viz., 

Thomas  Arny,  Ann  Atkins,  Joyce  Kineton, 

Anne  Yaughan,  Sarah  Edwards,         Mrs.  Eowley. 

Upon  the  twenty-fifth  3rd  month,  1677,  these  six  persons 
following  were  baptized  in  the  river  Frorne,  being  members  of 
this  church,  at  sister  Young's  house,  in  the  evening : — 

1.  Sister  Skinker,  5.  Sister  Davis,  widow  of 

2.  Sister  Eowley,  Capt.  Davis, 

3.  Sister  Hardcastle,  6.   Sister  Hickman. 

4.  Sister  Browne, 

Upon  the  nineteenth  of  the  4th  month,  1677,  Guy  Carleton, 
the  bishop  of  Bristol,  again  at  his  coming  home  from  parlia- 
ment, sent  a  letter  by  his  secretary  to  Sir  John  Knight,  to 
acquaint  him  of  a  meeting  in  the  Castle  this  morning,  being 
Lord's  day;  who  being  with  the  present  mayor,  Alderman 
Crabb,  at  his  parish  church  of  Temple,  the  secretary  came 


368  THE    RECORDS 

and  rushed  open  the  pew  upon  Sir  John  as  he  was  at  his 
devotion  upon  his  knees,  and  delivers  him  the  paper  from  the 
bishop.  Whereupon  Sir  John,  advising  with  the  mayor,  sends 
four  Serjeants  to  disperse  the  meeting  of  Mr.  Way,  in  the 
Castle,  and  so  they  departed ;  and  afterwards  those  Serjeants 
turned  informers,  and  upon  their  oaths,  and  sware  against  six 
of  the  men  there  met,  and  they  were  convicted  upon  the 
Conventicle  Act. 

Upon  the  twenty-fourth  day  of  4th  month,  [the]  bishop  again 
sent  to  Sir  John  Knight  to  disturb  the  Castle  meeting,  and 
they  were  disturbed  by  some  Serjeants  that  turned  them  out, 
and  would  not  go  away  till  they  were  all  gone. 

Upon  the  twenty-ninth  day  of  the  5th  month,  1677,  sister 
Lydia  Syms's  husband  having  two  days  since  arrested  sister 
Murray  (a  sister  that  of  late  was  struck  with  the  palsy  on  one 
side,  and  aged,  and  grown  to  some  decay  by  frowning  provi- 
dences) for  the  3/.  10s.  principal,  residue  of  6/.,  with  some  inte- 
rest, and  she  having  done  this  to  arrest  a  member  contrary  to 
the  rules  of  Christ : — And  this  Lord's  day,  in  the  morning, 
after  this  fact,  our  pastor,  and  one  of  the  elders,  sent  a  brother 
to  her  (she  being  now  in  the  city)  to  tell  her  he  would  speak 
with  her  after  the  evening  sermon ;  but  she  came  not  then  to 
him.  Whereupon,  by  consent  of  the  church,  the  elders  ordered  * 
sister  Lux  and  sister  Rose  Teague  to  go  to  her,  and  to  ad- 
monish her  of  her  not  attending  the  appointment  of  our  pastor, 
and  to  tell  her  the  church  orders  her  appearance  before  them 
the  next  Lord's  day,  to  answer  what  shall  be  laid  to  her 
charge.  This  was  done  before  all,  because  she  had  sinned 
openly ;  that  is,  broken  the  rules  of  Christ,  to  go  to  law  with 
a  member  before  the  [unbelievers].  She,  sister  Syms,  ought 
first  to  have  admonished  sister  Murray  privately,  for  not  pay- 
ing. 2ndly.  If  sister  Murray  did  not  pay  her,  to  have  taken 
one,  two,  or  three  members  witli  her,  and  have  given  her  the 
witnessing  admonition.     3rdly.  If  she,  sister  Murray,  had  not 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  369 

satisfied  her  upon  that  then  she,  sister  Synis,  was  to  have  told 
it  to  the  church,  that  they  might  have  dealt  with  sister  Murray 
for  not  paying ;  and  if  she  was  able  to  do  it,  and  [did]  not  pay 
her,  sister  Murray  ought  to  have  been  cast  out  of  the  church, 
if  the  church  saw  reason  so  to  do,  and  then  she,  sister  Syms, 
might  have  arrested  her. 

Upon  the  second  of  the  6th  month,  1677,  sister  Forde,  the 
wife  of  brother  John  Forde,  a  deacon  of  this  congregation, 
being  departed,  was  interred  at  Redcliffe. 

Upon  the  third  of  the  6th  month,  1677,  brother  Andrew 
Gifford  [was]  ordained  elder  to  that  congregation,  by  brother 
Dyke  and  brother  Cox,  elders  of  several  churches  in 
London.7 

Sister  Syms  being  ordered,  as  before,  to  attend  the  church  the 
last  Lord's  day,  she  came  not,  being,  as  [she]  said,  sick.  There- 
fore that  day  the  church  sent  to  her  again,  to  attend  the  church 
the  third  day  of  this  week,  the  seventh  instant,  being  our 
monthly  day  of  prayer.  She  came,  but  went  away  before  the 
work  of  prayer  was  over,  saying,  she  thought  she  was  not  able 
to  stay.  Therefore  the  church,  considering  she  was  with  child, 
was  willing  to  deal  tenderly  with  her,  otherwise  would  have  de- 
clared our  withdrawing  from  her  ;  therefore  again  ordered  two 
sisters,  sister  Smith  and  sister  Cornish,  to  go  to  her,  and  order 
her  to  attend  the  church-meeting  upon  the  fifth  day  of  the  week, 
after  sermon  :  to  stay,  or  else  we  should  withdraw  from  her, 
till  she  gave   the  church  satisfaction    in  all.      So  upon  the 

7  [He  "  was  ordained  the  third  of  the  lent  man  abandoned  the  valuable  living 
6th  month,  1677,  by  laying  on  of  the  of  Hadham  to  unite  with  the  baptists, 
hands  of  brother  Daniel  Dyke  and  and  for  a  time  enjoyed  the  friendship  of 
brother  Nehemiah  Cox,  elders  in  Lon-  Cromwell.  Though  urged  at  the  Re- 
don,  with  fasting  and  prayer  in  the  storation  to  conform,  he  resisted,  not 
church.'"  Ivimey,  ii.  546,  from  the  believing  "  that  the  king  was  sincere  in 
original  Records.  Mr.  Dyke  was  at  this  his  show  of  piety."  The  result  justified 
time  assistant  to  Mr.  Kiffin,  at  Devon-  his  anticipations,  and  he  continued  a 
shire  Square,  where  he  was  ordained  faithful  witness  for  Christ  till  his  death 
17th  Feb.  1668. — Devonshire  Square  in  1688,  at  the  age  of  seventy. — Crosby, 
Records,  MS.  B.     In  1640,  this  excel-  i.  357.] 

B  B 


370  THE    RECORDS 

ninth  of  the  fifth  month,  1677,  she  accordingly  came  to  the 
sermon ;  but  after  it  was  done,  the  members  of  the  congrega- 
tion present  being  bid  to  stay  a  while  after  the  people  were 
gone  down,  sister  Syms  also  got  down  into  a  low  room  that 
belonged  to  our  meeting-place,  where  repetition  of  the  ser- 
mon was  by  one  of  the  younger  brethren  used  to  be  made, 
and  she  would  have  some  of  the  ofeurch  to  come  down  unto 
her,  saying,  she  could  not  come  up  and  speak  in  the  presence 
of  so  many.  But  the  elders  of  the  church  sent  down  two 
sisters,  again  and  again,  to  tell  her  [her]  duty  to  attend  the 
church,  and  not  they  upon  her ;  and  if  she  did  not  come  up, 
they  would  presently  withdraw  from  her.  So  at  last  she 
came  up  to  the  church,  in  our  meeting-place  in  Broadmead ; 
and  then  our  pastor  laid  to  her  charge  the  report  and  common 
fame,  that  she  was  the  cause  that  her  husband  arrested  sister 
Murray,  and  so  scandal  came  upon  the  ways  of  God,  as 
being  contrary  to  the  rule,  1  Cor.  vi.  1 — 5.  And  therefore 
he  charged  her  to  deal  faithfully,  as  in  the  presence  of  God 
and  his  people,  to  tell  the  truth ;  if  she  was  guilty  to  confess 
her  sin,  and  give  glory  to  God,  and  manifest  repentance. 
But  she  declared  that  she  was  free  from  the  charge,  and 
did  never  persuade  him  to  arrest  sister  Murray,  but  on  the 
contrary. 

This  the  church  rested  satisfied  with ;  because  her  husband 
also,  to  our  pastor  and  some  other  brethren,  had  owned  the 
thing  as  his  own  act,  and  without  her  privacy,  and  so 
released  her.  He  being  no  member,  we  could  say  nothing 
unto  him. 

Upon  the  7th  day  of  the  sixth  month,  1677,  Mr.  Sam. 
Hunt  and  Mr.  John  Shuter,  husband  of  sister  Shuter  the 
younger,  were  proposed  to  join  with  the  congregation,  at 
our  day  of  prayer. 

Upon  the  26th  day  of  sixth  month,  1677,  Benjamin  Warren 
was  proposed  to  join  with  the  congregation,  by  one  of  the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  371 

ruling  elders,  after  sermon  in  the  evening  of  the  Lord's  day, 
when  the  church  stayed,  our  pastor  being  out  of  town. 

Upon  the  4th  of  the  ninth  month,  1677,  being  Lord's 
day,  Mary  Webb,  daughter  of  sister  Webb,  was  propounded 
to  the  congregation.  The  next  day,  being  the  fifth  of 
November — the  nation's  anniversary  day  of  thanksgiving,  for 
the  parliament's  deliverance  from  being  blown  up  by  the 
papists'  gunpowder  treason,  on  the  said  day,  anno  Domini, 
1603 — a  day  of  leisure  from  employment  for  the  people,  we 
kept  that  day  for  our  monthly  day  of  prayer,  that  was  to  be  that 
week,  in  order  to  the  Lord's  supper.  At  which  time,  in  the 
close  of  the  day,  three  of  the  persons  before  propounded, 
gave,  before  all  the  congregation  present  (the  room  full), 
their  account,  how  the  Lord  wrought  the  work  of  conversion 
upon  their  hearts:  viz.  Mr.  Hunt,  Benjamin  Warren,  and 
Mary  Webb,  with  which  the  congregation  was  satisfied,  and 
they,  the  congregation  aforesaid,  declared  their  consent  to 
receive  them  members  the  next  Lord's  day,  11th  Nov. 
1677. 

Upon  the  8th  day  of  the  9th  month,  1677,  these  six  brethren 
went  to  brother  Jeremy  Courtney's — some  of  which,  with 
others,  had  been  with  him  several  times  before, — to  reprove  and 
admonish  him  of  his  sin  of  drunkenness  that  he  was  fallen  into  ; 
and  was  upon  the  fifth  instant  at  an  ale-house,  when  the 
church  kept  a  day  of  prayer,  the  same  time.  He  seemed,  as 
formerly,  to  declare  his  repentance  and  sorrow  for  his  sin, 
and  we  put  him  to  pray  against  his  sin,  which  he  .  .  .8  But 
we  expect  the  fruit  of  repentance ;  viz.  reformation. 
Brother  Daniel  Gwilliam,  Brother  Snead, 
Brother  Cornish,  Brother  Bodenham, 

Brother  Richard  Towne,  Brother  Terrill. 

-Upon  the  9th  day  of  the  ninth  month,  1677,  brother  Ben- 
jamin Warren  and  Mary  Webb,  daughter  of  sister  Webb,  in 

8  [The  sentence  is  not  completed  in  the  Record.] 

B   B  2 


372  THE    RECORDS 

Corn  Street,  were  baptized  in  the  river  Frome,  by  brother 
Terrill's  house. 

Upon  the  11th  day  of  the  ninth  month,  1677,  brother 
Henry  Fieldust,  as  soon  as  sermon  was  ended,  and  after  the 
last  prayer,  in  the  afternoon,  he  began  to  exclaim  against  one 
Mr.  Young,  husband  to  sister  Young,  about  some  worldly 
business  and  dealings  between  them ;  for  that  somebody  had, 
the  Lord's  day  before,  given  in  a  bill  to  our  pastor,  as  if  for 
one  to  be  prayed  for,  wherein  was  signified,  that  Henry 
Fieldust  did  by  law  endeavour  to  ruin  a  family,  but  men- 
tioned not  what  family,  nor  any  name  to  it,  which  our 
pastor  did  not  read,  but  concealed  it :  only  in  private,  at  an- 
other day,  [he]  told  brother  Henry  Fieldust  of  it.  He  was 
much  troubled  at  it,  and,  supposing  it  to  be  some  of  Mr. 
Young's  family,  he  did  therefore,  this  day  as  aforesaid,  aloud 
and  openly,  publish  the  matters  between  them ;  and  Henry 
Fieldust's  wife  also,  who  was  not  a  member,  did  second  her 
husband,  and  kept  a  loud,  open  talking  of  their  money,  and 
the  matters  of  the  world  in  difference,  exclaiming  thus  before 
the  whole  assembly,  besides  the  church  in  the  face  of  many 
strangers,  to  the  great  disturbance  of  the  congregation  and 
people.  And  although  our  pastor,  being  surprised  at  that 
noise  and  clamorous  discourse,  bid  him  be  silent,  yet  they 
began  again,  and  loudly  clamoured :  that  the  pastor,  calling 
out  to  them  again,  and  showed  what  a  shame  it  was  that 
they  should  so  act  upon  the  Lord's  day,  and  profane  the 
sabbath,  to  endeavour  to  justify  themselves,  contrary  to  the 
rule,  Isa.  lviii.  13,  yet  could  scarcely  restrain  them  from  this 
disorderly  acting.     And  then  they  went  forth. 

Whereupon,  after  the  Lord's  supper  was  ended,  the 
church  sent  an  admonition  to  the  said  Henry  Fieldust, 
by  their  joint  order  unto  two  brethren,  namely,  brother  King 
and  brother  Gwilliam,  to  admonish  brother  Henry  Fieldust, 

1st.   Of  suffering  passion  to  reign  in  him. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  373 

2nd.  That  he  should  thus  openly  disturb  the  whole  multi- 
tude and  the  church,  just  at  their  going  to  break  bread. 

3rd.  That  upon  the  Lord's  day,  so  publicly,  [he  should] 
break  the  sabbath,  and  be  so  bad  an  example. 

4th.  That  he  should  not  only  speak  to  the  people  without 
leave  of  the  elders,  but  that  when  bid  by  our  pastor,  the 
chief  of  the  elders  of  the  church,  he  did  not  cease  to  dis- 
honour the  Lord,  and  grieve  his  people. 

Upon  the  4th  day  of  the  tenth  month,  1677,  being  our 
monthly  day  of  prayer,  at  the  close  of  the  day,  these  three 
things  were  considered  : — 

1st.  The  answer  of  the  messengers,  as  above  said,  sent  to 
admonish  brother  Fieldust ;  but  brother  King,  not  being  at 
the  meeting,  the  answer  could  not  be  had ;  because  brother 
Fieldust  at  their  first  speaking  to  him,  he  desired  he  might 
give  his  answer  to  brother  King  another  time. 

2nd.  It  was  by  the  pastor  demanded  of  the  church,  espe- 
cially of  the  members  that  lived  near  to  Thos.  Jacob — a 
member  under  dealing  by  the  church,  their  first  admonition — 
what  reformation  they  had  observed  in  him  since  ?  Answer. 
They  had  not  seen  nor  heard  that  he  was  guilty  of  drinking 
too  much,  except  once  since. 

3rd.  Whereas  brother  Jeremy  Courtney  also  had  been 
formerly  guilty  of  the  sin  of  drunkenness,  observed  by  some  of 
the  members,  and  by  such  alone  he  had  been  dealt  with  several 
times,  and  by  others,  after  they  had  taken  with  them  [other 
brethren]  to  admonish  him  by  the  witnessing  admonition, 
endeavouring  to  reclaim  him  from  excess  in  drinking,  and  had 
hoped  several  times  he  was  made  so  sensible  of  his  evil  that  he 
would  be  guilty  no  more:  but  seeing  he  was  about  a  month  since 
overtaken  again,  they  now  bring  his  evil  before  the  church, 
that  the  church  should  proceed  to  deal  with  him,  by  giving 
him  an  admonition  from  the  whole  church,  that  they  might 
shut  him  up  from  the  ordinance  of  the  Lord's  supper,  and  ses 


374  THE    RECORDS 

if  that  would  cure  him  ;  and  if  that  another  admonition  from 
them  did  cure  him,  then  it  was  not  such  a  leprosy  that  would 
cause  them  to  cast  him  out  of  the  church — the  camp,  Lev.  xiii. 

But  whereas  he  had  been  guilty  several  times,  some  con- 
siderable time  before,  some  did  reflect  privately  that  one  of 
the  elders  was  partial  in  that  matter.  He  declared,  before 
the  church,  that  it  was  not  partiality  in  him,  if  he  knew 
his  heart,  that  he  had  not  brought  his  evil  before  the  church 
sooner;  but  that  the  said  brother  Courtney  deceived  him  several 
times  by  such  good  words  and  savoury  expressions,  when  pri- 
vately admonished  of  his  evil,  and  that  one  would  have  thought 
he  was  very  sensible,  he  using  in  seriousness  such  words  as 
these : — at  one  time  he  said,  If  ever  I  am  guilty  again  of  ex- 
cess in  drinking,  let  me  be  as  Jonah,  cast  out  of  the  ship. 
And  yet  [he]  fell  again ;  and  being  again  dealt  with  for  it, 
seemed  to  have  such  abhorring,  that  he  said  he  would  not  sell 
his  birthright  for  a  mess  of  pottage.  And  now  again,  after 
this  last  fall,  when  six  brethren  went  of  themselves  together 
to  deal  with  him  for  his  sin,  he  gave  very  good  words,  and 
condemned  his  evil  and  himself. 

But  now  they  would  take  his  word  no  more,  but  look  for 
fruit,  viz.  reformation ;  and  so  brought  his  evil  before  the 
church.  But  he  being  since  fallen  very  sick,  the  elders,  with 
the  church,  thought  not  meet  to  send  at  that  time  the  church's 
admonition  to  him. 

Thus  stand  those  three  members,  brother  Jacob,  brother 
Fieldust,  brother  Courtney. 

Upon  the  13th  of  the  eleventh  month,  1677,  [January, 
1678],  being  Lord's  day,  and  our  day  of  breaking  bread, 
brother  Lingwood,  by  our  pastor,  desired  communion  with 
the  church,  that  lie  might  be  permitted,  and  received  into  his 
place  again :  who,  near  three  years  since,  for  some  indiscreet 
words,  had  been  withdrawn  from  the  church.  He  spake  of 
and  against  the  bishop  of  Bristol.     He  was  by  authority  cast 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  375 

into  prison,  and  lay  there  about  — 9  weeks ;  and  thereby,  for 
his  so  impudent  behaviour,  the  church  would  not  own  him, 
nor  come  near  him  in  his  sufferings,  because  he  suffered  as  an 
evil-doer :  for  we  are  commanded  to  speak  evil  of  no 
man  ;  and  by  that,  through  his  means,  the  ways  of  the  Lord 
were  evil  spoken  of. 

Upon  the  12th  day  of  the  twelfth  month,  1677,  [February, 
1678],  being  a  day  of  prayer,  the  church  proceeded  to  deal 
with  those  three  members,  after  one  of  the  ruling  elders 
had  read  the  thirteenth  chapter  of  Leviticus,  and  expounded 
divers  parts  thereof.  Showing  that  chapter  was  a  rule, 
showing  a  method  how  a  church  should  proceed  to  deal  with 
offending  members,  the  order  of  discipline  [being]  laid  down 
under  the  type  of  dealing  with  leprous  bodies  under  the  law, 
which  signified  the  sin  of  the  soul  under  the  gospel;  and 
showing,  for  some  sins,  they  must  be  cast  out  personally : 
that  is,  pronounced  unclean  at  first,  as  third  verse : — 

1st.  Showing  that  flesh  did  signify  the  body  of  sin  in  be- 
lievers ;  as  Romans  vii.  5,  and  Romans  viii,  8,  5,  10,  and 
Galatians  v.  16,  17. 

2dly.  That  by  skin  was  meant  the  infirmity  of  the  flesh ; 
that  is,  as  James  iii.  2.  We  have  all  common  infirmities,  and 
all  believers  are  covered  therewith. 

3dly.  That  the  hair  in  the  plague  turned  white  signifies 
decay  of  grace  in  the  soul,  and  decays  of  their  duties  in  the 
church,  or  in  their  families,  as  grey  hair  signifies  decay  of 
nature  in  the  body,  as  Lev.  xiii.  3.  Xow  if  there  be  a  thing 
clear  and  plain  (that  is,  the  rising,  or  bright  spot,  in  Lev.  xiii.  2), 
seen  to  be  evil  in  any  man  or  woman  in  the  church,  then  it 
must  be  examined  whether  it  be  deeper  than  the  skin,  that  is, 
than  the  common  infirmities  of  believers.  And  if  the  hair 
be  turned  white,  the  party  begins  also  to  decay,  and  leave  off 
his  Christian  duties,  then,  if  his  evils  be  such  (as  Lev.  xiii- 
9  [Not  filled  up.] 


376  THE    RECORDS 

3),  when  he  is  brought  before  the  church,  the  minister  is  to 
pronounce  him  unclean,  that  is,  cast  him  out  of  the  church 
— the  camp,  as  46th  verse :  1  Tim.  v.  20  ;  that  is,  presently, 
for  some  gross  sins.  But  if  the  sin  the  member  be  accused 
of  be  but  a  common  infirmity,  and  not  deeper,  though  that 
have  risen  high,  and  that  it  is  a  rising  more  than  is  com- 
mon, and  it  be  a  bright  spot : — and  if  the  hair  [be]  not  turned 
white,  his  duty  be  not  decayed,  then  such  a  person  is  to  be 
shut  up ;  that  is,  to  be  admonished,  and  withdrawn  from 
seven  Lord's  days,  or  seven  times  of  breaking  bread.  Then  on 
the  seventh  Lord's  day  following,  or  seventh  time  of  breaking 
bread,  such  person  is  to  be  looked  upon,  that  is,  admonished 
again;  and  if  his  sin  be  at  a  stay,  and  spread  not  in  his  infirmity 
or  skin,  then  he  is  to  be  admonished  again  to  repent,  and  so  shut 
up,  that  is,  withdrawn  from  seven  Lord's  days  more.  Then  on 
the  seventh  Lord's  day,  or  seventh  time  of  breaking  bread, 
the  church  is  to  look  upon  him  again;  and  if  the  person 
manifest  repentance,  that  the  sin  or  rising  be  somewhat 
dark,  not  to  be  seen,  and  that  the  sin  spread  not  in  the  infir- 
mity, the  skin,  then  the  church  is  to  pronounce  him  clean  : 
that  is,  to  receive  him :  that  is,  to  admit  him  to  break  bread, 
and  to  have  communion  as  formerly  ;  as  Lev.  xiii.  6.  But  if 
the  scab  or  sin  spread  in  his  infirmity,  the  pastor  is  to  pro- 
nounce him  unclean  :  that  is,  cast  him  out  of  the  church,  as 
Lev.  xiii.  8,  compared  with  verse  46. 

So  upon  the  said  twelfth  day  of  the  12th  month,  1677 
[February,  1678],  the  church  upon  Mr.  Lingwood's  motion  to 
join  again  with  the  church,  and  to  return  to  his  place  as  a  mem- 
ber, the  church  on  the  Lord's  day  before,  sent  a  brother  to  him 
to  order  him  to  come  to  the  church's  meeting  on  this  day  of 
prayer.  And  now  being  come,  the  church,  in  the  afternoon, 
demands  of  him,  by  the  pastor,  what  is  the  reason  he  left  the 
church  now  these  two  years,  and  his  duty,  and  place?  He 
answered,  lie  had  not  left  his  place,  but  that  [the]  evil  he  felL 


OF   A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  377 

into  of  talking  against  the  bishop,  and  so  [was]  put  in  prison, 
and  suffered  as  an  evil-doer,  the  trouble  of  it  lay  upon  him. 
2nd.  Our  pastor  [then]  laid  to  his  charge,  his  compliance 
with  the  bishop,  of  promising  to  go  to  the  College  to  get  out 
of  prison ;  and  after  that,  he  did  go  twice.  He  said  he  was 
sorry  for  what  he  had  done,  but  would  not  do  so  again.  3rd. 
The  church,  by  one  of  the  ruling  elders,  taxed  him  for  his 
timorousness  still,  and  did  fear,  if  he  was  received,  he  would 
decline  the  church  and  his  duty  again,  if  any  trouble  did 
arise,  as  persecution  ;  because  he  was  very  shy  now  of  any  pro- 
fessor, or  member  of  the  church,  if  some  of  the  officers  of  the 
customs  (of  which  he  was  one)  should  be  near  him.  4th.  The 
church  dealt  with  him  for  the  sin  of  drunkenness,  the 
root-sin,  that  brought  all  that  trouble  upon  him.  For  it 
was  at  an  ale-house  he  spake  those  words  laid  against  him, 
f*  That  he  would  dash  out  the  bishop's  teeth,  or  could  find  in 
his  heart  to  do  it,"  or  to  that  effect,  which  he  did  not  remem- 
ber he  spake.  And  that  he  had  been  seen  overcome  with 
liquor  since  that,  and  but  lately.  But  that  he  had  been 
lately  overtaken,  he  seemed  to  deny.  Therefore  the  church, 
by  the  pastor,  pronounced  the  sentence  of  withdrawing  from 
him,  and  to  admonish  him  to  repent  of  his  evils ;  which,  be- 
cause of  the  troubles  then  upon  our  meetings,  and  his  not 
coming  near  us,  we  had  not  so  convenient  an  opportunity  till 
now  he  desired  to  come  in  again.  For  by  his  departing  from 
us,  he  did,  as  it  were,  excommunicate  himself;  which  was  the 
worst  excommunication,  as  self-murder  is  the  highest  murder. 
So  he  judged  himself  not  worthy  of  a  place  in  Christ's 
church,  nor  of  a  part  in  the  Lord's  supper,  as  the  apostle 
saith,  Acts  xiii.  46. 

2nd.  Then  brother  Jeremy  Courtney  was  dealt  with  for 
drunkenness  also,  being  now  present.  He  hoped  [if]  the  Lord 
would  keep  him,  he  should  fall  into  that  sin  no  more :  yet 
because  he  had  so  often  given  good  words  and  failed,  the 


378  THE    RECORDS 

church  would  trust  him  no  more,  but  wait  to  see  some  fruit ; 
and  therefore  pronounced,  by  one  of  the  ruling  elders,  the 
sentence  of  withdrawing  from  him  also. 

3rd.  Brother  Henry  Fieldust,  that  the  church  had  sent  an 
admonition  to  formerly  for  his  passion  and  disorderly  speak- 
ing in  the  church,  he  declared  he  was  sorry  he  had  so  done  ; 
therefore  the  church  ordered  him  to  withdraw  the  room 
for  a  little  while,  and  finding  all  to  accept  of  his  repentance, 
[he]  was  called  in  again,  and  declared  he  was  received  into 
the  church  again. 

Upon  the  17th  day,  12th  month,  Mrs.  Parsons  by  Clifton, 
was  propounded,  at  breaking  bread. 

Upon  the  20th  February  or  12th  month,  1677,  our  aged 
brother  Robert  Simpson  departed  this  life,  in  the  eighty-fifth 
year  of  his  age ;  was  interred  in  Philip's  yard,  by  his  wife 
and  daughter,  at  the  back  door  of  the  meeting-house  there, 
called  the  church.  He  could  read  the  smallest  printed 
bibles  without  spectacles.  A  week  before  he  died,  he  said, 
as  he  laid  upon  his  bed,  in  the  day  time,  he  told  brother 
Rivers,  the  Lord  had  been  preaching  to  him  better  than  an 
hundred  sermons.  Brother  Rivers  asked  him  what  it  was.  He 
said,  he  had  been  meditating,  as  he  lay  a  little  upon  his  couch 
in  the  day-time,  about  the  Israelite's  servant,  in  Exod.  xxi. 
5,  6,  that  had  served  his  master  six  years.  He  was  to  go  free 
the  seventh  year ;  but  if  he  said  he  loved  his  master,  &c, 
that  he  will  not  go  out  free,  then  his  ear  was  to  be  bored  to  the 
door-post  with  an  awl,  and  he  should  serve  him  for  ever. 
"  Now,"  said  brother  Simpson,  "  I  have  served  Christ  so 
long,  and  I  love  my  Master  still ;  and  if  I  were  to  live  a 
huntfred  years  more  I  would  not  leave  my  Master,  and  upon 
the  resolution  (my  thoughts)  the  Lord  came  in  upon  my  soul, 
and  said,  I  should  be  his  servant  for  ever." 

Upon  the  27th  of  the  12th  month,  1677,  Sister  Browne, 
the  widow,  departed  this  life,  and  left  ten  children,   six  sons 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  379 

and  four  daughters.  She  was  interred  by  her  husband  in 
John's  ground. 

Upon  the  first  day  of  the  first  month,  1677,  our  sister 
Elizabeth  Smyth  the  younger,  in  Broadmead,  departed  this  life : 
interred  in  James's  yard.  Her  race  was  soon  run,  it  being 
not  two  years  since  shewas  added  a  member  to  this  church. 

Upon  the  fifth  day  of  the  first  month,  1677,  being  our 
monthly  day  of  prayer,  viz.  the  first  Tuesday  in  every  month, 
Mrs.  Parsons  made  declaration  of  the  work  of  God  upon  her 
soul,  how  she  came  to  be  changed,  and  to  close  with  Christ, 
and  the  church  received  satisfaction  to  admit  her  the  next 
Lord's  day.  Sister  Parsons  was  baptized  the  eighth  of  ditto 
month,  and  added  to  the  church  upon  the  tenth  of  this 
instant  month  of  February  [April]. 

Upon  this  said  fifth  day  of  the  first  month,  1677,  Thomas 
Jacob,  that  before  was  a  member  of  this  congregation,  and 
had  been  under  dealing  by  the  church,  for  drunkenness  and 
neglect  of  his  duty  in  the  congregation,  in  attending  in  his 
place  Lord's  days  and  days  of  prayer,  frequently  absent,  and 
for  which  he  was  admonished  by  the  congregation  the  sixth 
day  of  the  last  month,  and  the  church  having  waited  now  a 
whole  year,  expecting  reformation;  instead  thereof  there 
came  late  sad  tidings  to  the  congregation,  that  said  Thomas 
Jacob,  about  ten  days  since,  was  much  in  drink,  and  very 
rude,  fighting  in  the  street,  and  that  he  had  given  his  wife 
some  blows,  and  said  he  would  be  revenged  on  a  man  that,  it 
seems,  he  owed  a  grudge  to,  and  would  not  be  persuaded  to 
stay  in  his  house  when  brother  Willis  entreated  him.  For 
this  open  sinning,  the  said  Thomas  Jacob  was  withdrawn 
from  by  the  church,  and  so  cast  out,  and  the  sentence  pro- 
nounced before  the  whole  church  by  our  pastor,  that  we  with- 
draw from  the  said  Thomas  Jacob,  and  that  from  henceforward 
he  was  no  member  of  this  church,  nor  to  partake  of  the  commu- 
nion, nor  privileges  thereof :  and  Thomas  Jacob  was  present. 


380  THE    RECORDS 

Anno  1678. 

Upon  the  sixth  day  of  the  second  month,  1678,  there  were 
three  brethren  came  down  from  London,  from  the  church 
that  Mr.  Jessey,  deceased,  was  formerly  their  pastor,  to  get 
our  pastor,  brother  Hardcastle,  from  us ;  claiming  their  right 
in  him,  as  a  member  with  them,  as  they  would  have  it, 
although  he  had  walked  with  us  now  near  seven  years. 

The  state  of  our  case  lay  thus : — 

After  our  pastor,  dear  brother  Ewins,  deceased,  we  heark- 
ened for  another  minister  of  our  persuasion,  that  was  a 
learned  man  in  the  original,  and  that  was  not  engaged  in 
office  in  any  church ;  and  brother  Terrill  sending  to  that 
worthy  and  eminent  servant  of  God,  Mr.  Yavasor  Powell, 
then  in  London,  to  desire  him  to  consider  of  a  man  fit  to  be 
pastor  of  this  congregation,  to  succeed  brother  Ewins,  and 
telling  him  we  heard  of  one  Mr.  Hardcastle,  a  member  of 
Mr.  Jessey's  congregation, — to  ask  his  advice  if  he  were  not 
already  engaged,  [and]  to  know  whether  he  did  judge  him  to 
be  a  man  fitly  qualified  for  us.  Which  said  brother  Vavasor 
Powell  answered,  Mr.  Hardcastle  would  be  a  fit  man  for  us, 
if  we  could  get  him,  and  he  was  not  settled  there,  only  upon 
trial  for  eldership.  We  being  by  him  and  others  certainly  in- 
formed [that]  Mr.  Hardcastle  was  not  otherwise  engaged,  but 
only  upon  trial,  this  church  sent  a  letter  to  him,  and  tendered 
him  a  call  also,  to  come  to  us,  leaving  it  with  and  before  him 
whether  he  would  accept  of  their  call,  or  accept  of  ours ;  and 
we  argued,  he  would  be  of  more  use  here  in  this  part  of  the 
land,  where  there  were  so  few  learned  men  of  our  persuasion, 
than  he  would  be  in  London,  where  there  were  so  many 
learned  men. 

Then  it  happened,  before  he  concluded  which  to  accept  of, 
he  was  cast  into  prison  there,  in  London,  upon  the  Con- 
venticle Act  for  preaching,  for  six  months  :  during  which  time 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  381 

this  congregation,  and  that  in  London,  did,  by  letters,  argue 
where  he  would  be  most  useful.  And  after  divers  letters 
from  each  to  other,  they  in  London  offered  to  refer  it  to 
other  ministering  elders;  to  which  we  agreed,"  and  pitched 
upon  six  ministering  brethren  in  London,  and  desired  them 
to  name  six  more,  and  we  would  stand  to  what  they  should 
determine,  and  j  udge  betwixt  us  in  that  matter,  which  they 
did  not  [do],  although  it  was  their  own  motion.  And  when 
we  had  waited  long  for  an  answer  of  this,  we  had  none.  Till 
at  last  we  heard  Mr.  Hardcastle  was  coming  down  to  visit  us 
for  a  month.  And  when  he  was  here,  before  he  went  away, 
upon  the  29th  day  of  the  third  month,  1671,  we  gave  him  a 
call  in  writing,  with  every  member  of  the  church's  hand, 
written  by  every  one  that  could  write,  and  ordered  to  be 
written  by  them  that  could  not.  To  which  he  would 
then  give  us  no  promise  of  coming  to  us  again,  but  said,  he 
would  consider  of  it ;  because,  as  we  understand  since,  he  had 
not  given  them  a  denial  in  London. 

But  when  he  came  to  London  he  did,  after  some  time,  see- 
ing they  did  not  agree  together,  and  set  him  apart  then 
neither,  nor  fasten  him,  although  they  heard  what  we  had 
done.  Whereupon  brother  Hardcastle  came  down  to  us  again, 
about  two  months  after. 

But  the  church  in  London  was  very  angry  with  us  for 
giving  him  a  call,  and  therefore  when  he  came  to  us  the  second 
time,  we  gave  him  a  new  call,  on  trial,  to  be  our  pastor  to  this 
church,  upon  the  eighth  day  of  the  6  th  month,  1671,  after  he 
had  given  them  in  London  a  denial.  At  which  they  were 
more  offended  with  us,  when  it  was  their  own  fault  that  they 
had  not  come  to  a  conclusion  among  themselves,  and  settled 
him  to  be  their  pastor,  having  been  so  long  with  them  upon 
trial  as  he  was  before.  We  sent  to  him  a  year,  if  not  two 
years,  and  then  he  was  nine  months  with  them  after  we  had 
sent  to  him  to  desire  that  he  would  come  to  us;  and  yet, 


382  THE    RECORDS 

notwithstanding,  they  had  not  come  to  a  conclusion  to  ordain 
him  pastor,  but  he  only  stood  upon  trial  still. 

And  again,  they  miss  a  third  opportunity  after  he  had  been 
with  us  to  visit  us  and  was  returned  to  them  again,  that^they 
had  not  then  closed,  and  fastened  him  by  giving  up  themselves 
to  him,  and  getting  him  to  do  so  to  them,  and  to  have  con- 
cluded to  have  ordained  him  to  be  their  pastor  by  laying  on  of 
hands.  Then  wre  would  not  have  looked  after  him,  no  more 
than  after  any  other  minister  that  was  settled  over  any  church ; 
but  seeing  he  was  only  upon  trial,  we  claimed  a  church's  right, 
to  give  an  invitation  to  a  gift  in  any  church  to  come  to  take 
office  with  us  under  Christ,  if  he  were  not  in  office  there,  if 
that  he  were  minded  and  willing  to  come  to  us.  For  the  call 
of  a  person  to  office  in  a  church  bears  the  similitude  of 
marriage,  and  it  was  lawful  for  us  to  make  an  offer,  to  be  a 
suitor  to  him  as  well  as  they,  and  it  was  also  lawful  for  Mr. 
Hardcastle  to  accept  of  which  he  would ;  because  the  com- 
mand of  God  was  so,  that  the  daughters  of  Zelophehad  should 
marry  to  whom  they  thought  best,  only  to  the  family  of  the 
tribe  of  their  fathers,  Numb,  xxxvi.  6.  And  surely  we  are  of 
the  same  tribe,  baptists,  as  they  ;  and  if  he  had  been  married 
to  them,  we  would  not  have  sought  to  him. 

Yet,  notwithstanding  we  so  fairly  proceeded,  according  to 
rule,  and  they  neglected  their  duty,  yet  they  were  offended, 
and  sent  an  angry  epistle  to  us,  charging  us  with  sin  in  calling 
brother  Hardcastle ;  but  showed  us  no  rule  that  we  had 
broken.  Therefore  we  had  peace,  having  done  but  our  duty, 
although  they  had  omitted  theirs.  And  brother  Hardcastle 
had  a  letter  at  that  time,  signed  with  ten  ministers'  hands  to 
it  in  London,  that  understood  our  call,  pastors  of  churches, 
whereof  Dr.  Owen  was  one  in  commending  of  him  to  us. 

But,  for  order-sake,  we  sought  to  that  church  from  whence 
Mr.  Hardcastle  came,  viz.,  Mr.  Jessey's  people,  that  they 
would  give  Mr.  Hardcastle  a  letter  of  dismission  from  them  to 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  383 

us,  because  he  was  a  member  of  that  church  when  he  came  to 
us ;  but  they  would  not  grant  it.  We  waited  till  they  had 
chosen  one  Mr.  Fitten1  to  be  their  pastor,  and  then  we  sought 
again:  yet  they  would  not  grant  a  letter  of  dismission.  And 
thus  having  waited  near  three  years,  and  could  not  obtain  it, 
we  came  to  conclude  our  call  to  brother  Hardcastle  upon 
trial.  And  so,  upon  the  nineteenth  of  the  3rd  month,  1674, 
being  a  day  of  prayer,  the  congregation  having  had  so  long 
time  of  trial  of  brother  Hardcastle 's  gifts  and  graces,  they  now 
chose  him  to  be  their  pastor,  and  declared  it  by  lifting  up  their 
right  hands  to  the  Lord;  which  being  unanimously  done, 
brother  Hardcastle  declared  his  acceptance  of  the  place. 

Thus  the  business  of  election  was  terminated,  finished,  and 
done,  and  the  church  declared  their  readiness  to  ordain  him 
when  he  would.  And,  upon  the  28th  October,  1676,  they 
seeing  an  opportunity,  moved  it  to  him,  but  the  brethren  from 
London  came  not  to  the  city,  as  thought.  But  the  laying  on 
of  hands  being  not  essential  to  the  election,  but  the  church's 
unanimous  choice  of  him,  and  his  acceptance  declared  being 
done,  that  gives  the  being  of  the  office,  and  ties  each  to  other. 
Ordination,  by  laying  on  of  hands  for  order,  may  be  done  at 
convenience. 

But  now  this  church  in  London,  having  buried  Mr.  Fitten, 
comes,  and  would  fain  have  our  pastor  that  we  have  enjoyed 
near  seven  years.  And  although  they  married  another  since, 
and  buried  him  also,  thought  to  get  Mr.  Hardcastle  back,  and 
so  sent  three  brethren  to  us,  but  no  letter ;  but  only  a  certi- 
ficate, a  copy  of  which  is  as  follows : — 

These  are  to  certify  the  congregation  at  Bristol,  that  the  bearers 
hereof,  namely,  John  Mason  and  Christopher  Booth,  are  mes- 
sengers appointed  by  the  church  at  London,  of  which  Mr.  Thomas 
Hardcastle  is  a  member,  and  chosen  an  elder,  to  inquire  of  you  the 

1  [See  before,  pp.  Ill,  155,  198.] 


384  THE    RECORDS 

reasons  of  your  withholding  Mr.  Thomas  Hardcastle  from  them  as 
they  are  informed,  being  neither  a  member  nor  minister  regularly 
called  amongst  you,  and  the  church  at  London  standing  in  great 
need  of  him, — to  which  we  do,  in  the  name  of  the  church,  sub- 
scribe our  names, 

William  Nuttall,  )  _ 

I  Deacons. 
John  Buckmaster,  v, 

Signed  at  London,  the  31st  of  the  1st  month,  1678. 

There  came  another  brother  with  them,  namely,  brother 
William  Thomas,  that  they  added.  These  being  come  from 
London,  we  gave  them  a  meeting  upon  the  eighth  day  of  the 
2nd  month,  1678,  at  brother  TerrilPs,  where  we  debated  the 
matter  with  them.  They  asked  divers  questions  about  six 
particulars,  to  which  we  gave  answers  that  did  very  much 
silence  them  ;  and  so  far  satisfied  them,  that  they  confessed 
the  church  in  London  had  missed  their  opportunity  of  fasten- 
ing Mr.  Hardcastle,  and  they  said  we  were  quick  in  embracing 
the  season  put  into  our  hands.  And  so,  seeing  what  we  had 
done,  and  finished  the  election  several  years  since,  they 
returned  the  next  day,  despairing  of  getting  Mr.  Hardcastle 
to  them.     Laus  Deo. 

Upon  the  twenty-eighth  day  of  the  2nd  month,  1678, 
brother  John  James  deceased,  and  was  interred  at  George's 
parish,  two  miles  from  the  Pill,  where  he  lived. 

Upon  the  seventh  day  of  the  3rd  month,  1678,  brother 
Jeremy  Courtney  was  again,  the  second  time,  admonished  by 
our  pastor,  in  the  presence  of  the  church,  to  repent  of  his  evil 
and  sin  of  drunkenness.  Our  pastor  said,  he  had  reference  to 
the  sin  of  leprosy,  Lev.  xiii.,  that  after  seven  days  the  priest 
was  to  look  upon  the  leper  again ;  which  showed  a  certain 
and  due  convenient  space  of  time  that  the  sick  person  must 
be  looked  after,  as  well  as  physic  given  to  them.  Therefore 
he  sent  for  the  said  brother  Courtney  the  last  week,  and  laid 


OF   A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  385 

his  sin  before  him  ;  and  since  that,  received  a  letter  from 
brother  Courtney  confessing  his  evil,  and  finding  the  deceit  of 
his  heart  and  hardness,  that  he  saw  where  strength  and  help 
was,  but  did  not  know  how  to  come  at  it.  He  seemed  as  one 
in  a  sight  and  view  of  his  sin,  but  not  come  up  to  a  thorough 
resolution  against  it,  yet  seemed  in  his  conscience  not  to  like 
it.  Therefore  one  of  the  elders,  after  the  pastor  had  again 
admonished  him  as  aforesaid,  read  unto  the  said  brother 
Courtney  the  word  of  the  Lord,  written  Deut.  xxix.  18 — 21; 
showing  that  man  or  woman  that  shall  add  drunkenness  to 
thirst,  and  think  in  his  heart  he  shall  have  peace  though  he  so 
walk,  that  the  Lord  will  not  spare  that  man ;  but  all  the 
curses  in  the  scripture  shall  lie 'upon  him,  and  blot  out  his 
name  out  of  the  church  ;  and  whereas,  God  had  once  separated 
him  to  good  by  bringing  him  into  the  church,  now  God  would 
separate  him  to  evil,  as  saith  the  scripture.     Oh  sad  state ! 

Upon  the  twelfth  day  of  the  3rd  month,  1678,  our  aged 
sister  Sterne  departed  this  life,  and  was  buried  the  15th 
instant,  in  James's  Yard,  near  the  Kirk. 

Upon  the  nineteenth  day  of  the  3rd  month,  1678,  our  aged 
sister  Wade,  wife  to  Major  Wade,  departed  this  life,  at 
the  week  [wake]  in  Arlingham,  in  the  county  of  Gloucester ; 
and  was  brought  in  a  coach,  and  buried  with  her  eldest  son 
at  Stephen's,  in  this  city,  the  22nd  instant,  at  midnight. 

Upon  the  nineteenth  day  of  the  3rd  month,  1678,  the 
pastor  and  brethren  of  the  congregation  [considered]  the  back- 
sliding and  declining  condition  of  brother  Jeremy  Courtney, 
that  stands  under  the  church's  second  admonition  for  the  sin 
of  drunkenness,  and  yet  again  guilty,  and  trespassing  therein. 
Therefore,  at  the  motion  of  sister  his  wife,  the  brethren  con- 
clude to  keep  a  day  of  solemn  fasting  and  prayer,  for  him  in 
particular;  if  it  might  be  the  Lord  would  be  entreated  to 
cast  the  drunken  devil  out  of  him,  which  did  overcome  him  and 
carry  him  captive  at  his  will ;  and  considering  the  Lord  saith5 

c  C 


386  THE    RECORDS 

some  kind  goeth  not  out  but  by  prayer  and  fasting.  [Matt,  xvii, 
21.] 

And  accordingly  we  kept  a  day  of  fasting  and  prayer,  at 
brother  Courtney's  house,  the  twenty-first  day  of  third  month, 
1678.  After  one  of  the  elders  spoke  to  it,  and  a  brother 
prayed,  our  pastor,  brother  Hardcastle,  spake,  to  lay  open  his 
sin  and  the  evil  thereof.  He  asked  the  said  brother  Courtney 
if  he  were  willing  to  part  with  his  sin  ?  He  answered,  he  was 
willing,  if  he  knew  his  heart.  Then,  after  the  pastor  and 
some  other  brother  [had]  prayed,  one  of  the  elders  asked  him, 
what  demonstration  would  he  give  the  brethren  and  sisters  of 
the  church,  that  he  was  heartily  desirous  and  willing  to  leave 
his  sin  ?  Then,  after  pretty  much  ado  (for  he  would  know  of 
us  what  we  would  have  him  oblige  himself  to),  we  told  him,  we 
should  not  lay  any  bond  upon  him ;  but  if  he  were  real  in  his 
heart  against  his  sin,  he  would  take  revenge  upon  himself,  and 
clear  himself,  as  2  Cor.  vii.  11.  And  having  read  unto  him 
the  case  and  practice  of  the  Rechabites,  Jer.  xxxv.  2,  &c,  at 
last  he  concluded  and  said,  he  would  refrain  and  abstain  from 
wine  and  strong  liquors  for  a  year.  And  then  we  finished 
the  day  with  prayer  for  him. 

Upon  the  sixth  day  of  the  6th  month,  1678,  being  our 
monthly  day  of  prayer,  in  preparation  for  the  Lord's  supper, 
Mr.  Wm.  Kemp  and  Mrs.  Codner,  having  formerly,  at  several 
times,  to  the  pastor  and  elder,  declared  their  desires  to  join, 
were  propounded  to  join  to  the  congregation.  And  towards 
the  close  of  the  day  of  prayer,  they  gave  a  declaration,  in  the 
midst  of  the  congregation,  of  the  work  of  God  upon  their 
souls ;  telling  the  church  how  they  came  to  be  changed, 
repent,  and  believe.  With  which  their  several  declarations, 
after  they  were  put  forth  for  a  space,  the  congregation,  con- 
sidering what  they  had  said,  declared  their  satisfaction  to 
receive  them  into  their  communion  as  members.  Then  they 
were  called  into  the  room  where  the  church  was,  and  the  time 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  387 

appointed  for  baptizing  of  them.  And  so  they  were  baptized 
upon  the  ninth  day  of  said  sixth  month,  1678.  And  upon  the 
Lord's  day  following,  being  the  eleventh  day  of  sixth  month, 
just  before  breaking  bread,  after  the  evening  sermon,  they 
were  admitted  into  the  congregation,  and  declared  members  of 
this  church.     Brother  Kemp  and  sister  Codner. 

Upon  the  third  day  of  the  seventh  month,  1678,  being  our 
monthly  day  of  prayer,  these  two  were  proposed  to  join  with 
the  congregation,  but  did  not  then  give  in  their  declaration  of 
the  work  of  God  upon  their  souls,  viz., 

Joseph  Clarke  of  Honiton,  in  Devonshire,  nine  miles  from 
Lyme,  a  young  attorney ;  and 

Bowen,  wife  of  Lewis  Bowen. 

Also  brother  Jeremy  Courtney,  having  some  time  before 
declared  his  desires,  to  the  pastor  and  one  of  the  elders,  to 
return  again  to  his  place  in  the  church,  was  now  also  pro- 
posed to  the  church,  for  their  consideration  thereof,  and  watch- 
ing over  him  against  the  next  day  of  prayer,  that  he  should 
declare  to  the  church  how  the  Lord  turned  him  to  leave  his 
sin  of  drunkenness. 

Upon  the  29th  day  of  the  seventh  month,  1678,  about 
three  of  the  clock  in  the  morning,  being  the  sabbath  day, 
our  pastor,  brother  Thomas  Hardcastle,  departed  this  life. 
His  death  was  very  sudden,  for  he  seemed  to  have  been  as 
well  when  he  went  to  bed  as  he  usually  was  at  other  times. 
But  he  went  to  bed  a  little  after  ten  at  night,  and  slept  till 
about  one.  Then  waking,  complained  to  his  wife,  in  bed 
with  him,  of  a  great  pain  that  took  him  about  the  shoulders, 
in  his  back,  and  breast ;  and  said,  he  supposed  he  had  taken 
some  great  cold.  His  pain  continued,  with  motions  to  reach 
and  vomit,  with  which  he  was  often  troubled  in  the  night, 
that  his  servant  maid,  in  the  next  room,  hearing  him,  thought 
it  but  that  which  was  usual.  He  arose  and  put  on  his 
doublet,  and  went  to  stool,  and  came  into  bed  again.     His 

c  c  2 


388  THE    RECORDS 

pain  increased,  very  violent,  that  made  him  groan  aloud. 
The  maid  arose,  but  before  three  the  rattles  came  upon  him, 
and  so  [he]  died.  In  this  great  agony,  his  wife,  big  with 
child,  was  much  affrighted.  He  laboured  to  comfort  her, 
saying,  he  hoped  it  would  go  off  again ;  '  for,'  said  he,  '  I  had 
such  a  fit  took  me  in  my  journey,  but  it  pleased  the  Lord  it 
went  off  again.'  But  this  fit  did  not ;  for  he  had  been  a 
great  journey,  as  far  as  West  Chester,  occasioned  by  a  letter 
from  his  wife's  brother;  and  he  came  home  but  two  days 
before. 

He  was  a  man,  as  it  were  a  champion  for  the  Lord,  very 
courageous  in  his  work  and  sufferings.  His  zeal  provoked 
many,  before  he  came  to  Bristol.  After  he  had  thrown  off 
conformity,  he  suffered  about  eight  months'  imprisonment  in 
York  Castle ;  and  then,  because  he  would  not  give  bond  to 
preach  no  more,  as  some  ministers,  his  fellow  prisoners,  did, 
to  get  free,  he  was  carried  thence,  out  of  his  county  eighty 
miles,  to  Chester  Castle,  and  there  he  was  kept  fifteen 
months  more,  close  prisoner ;  and  then,  by  an  order  from  the 
king,  he  was  released  without  bonds,  and  he  came  to  London, 
and  there  he  was  baptized.  After  that  [he]  was  taken  up 
for  preaching,  and  by  the  Conventicle  Act  was  six  months 
prisoner  in  London.  And  then  being  called  by  this  church 
to  be  their  pastor,  for  the  defence  of  the  gospel,  [he]  was 
twice  imprisoned  in  Bristol,  two  six  months ;  still  preaching 
as  soon  as  ever  he  came  forth,  and  so  continued  till  his  death, 
having  been  our  "pastor  about  seven  years  and  a  quarter. 
He  was  seven  times  imprisoned,  for  Christ  and  a  good  con- 
science, after  he  left  off  conformity. 

It  is  observable,  this  last  summer  God's  providence  led 
him  to  London,  and  took  his  leave  of  his  friends  there ;  and 
now  [he]  was,  by  the  same  proviJence,  led  to  Chester,  and 
took  his  leave  of  his  friends  there,  where  he  had  suffered  ; 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  389 

and  in  mercy  brought  home  to  die  in  his  bed,  though  sudden, 
where  was  his  work,  and  had  last  suffered  here  for  the  Lord. 

Upon  the  15th  day  of  October,  the  church  kept  a  day  of 
humiliation  for  the  death  of  their  pastor,  and  concluded  to 
keep  the  dwelling-house  for  another.2 

Upon  the  fifth  day  of  the  ninth  month,  and  monthly  day 
of  prayer,  there  was  a  young  man,  namely,  Mr.  James 
Lewis,  proposed  to  join  with  the  congregation,  very  desirous 
for  communion;  but  being  but  lately  wrought  upon,  they 
put  him  to  wait  sometime  before  they  would  take  an  account 
of  him,  how  he  came  to  be  changed,  or  born  again,  and 
believe. 

This  hymn  the  church  sang,  being  select  together  at  their 
monthly  day,  upon  the  fifth  day  of  the  ninth  month,  anno 
1678  ;  upon  the  discovery  of  the  then  popish  plot3  to  destroy 
the  king,  and  to  set  up  popery  in  the  land.  And  also  upon 
the  remembrance  of  this  church's  then  condition,  being  desti- 
tute, without  a  pastor,  brother  Hardcastle  deceasing  a  month 
before.  This  hymn  composed,  and  brought  into  the  congre- 
gation, for  its  edification,  by  brother  E[dward]  T[errill]. 

As  papists  still  do  seek  to  kill 

the  governors  of  our  land  ; 
The  Lord  of  might,  doth  bring  to  light, 

the  plots  they  take  in  hand. 

3  [Besides  the  works  already  men-  of  Bristol,"  in   1675,  already  referred 

tioned,   of  which  Mr.  Hardcastle  was  to.] 

the  author,  he  published  a  volume  of  s  [This  was  the  celebrated  plot  con- 
sermons  by  Mr.  Garbett,  entitled,  cocted  by  the  infamous  Titus  Oates,  but 
"  One  come  from  the  dead  to  awaken  which  gained  universal  credence.  "  So 
Drunkards."  He  also  united  with  Mr.  wildly  and  widely  had  the  panic  spread, 
Edward  Bagshaw  in  a  recommenda-  that  all  protestants,  clergy  or  laity,  con- 
tion  prefixed  to  the  Concordance  of  his  formists  or  nonconformists,  royalists  or 
brother-in-law,  Mr.  Vavasor  Powell.  It  republicans,  considered  their  lives  in 
is  not  improbable  that  he  likewise  wrote  danger,  and,  in  many  instances,  adopted 
the  anonymous  "  Sober  Answer  to  an  the  most  ridiculous  precautions  against 
Address  of  the  Grand  Jurors  of  the  city  an  unseen  enemy." — Pict.  Hist.  iii.  721 .] 


390  THE    RECORDS 

Therefore  let  we,  give  praise  to  He 
that  still  doth  show  His  love  : 

And  let  us  live,  and  always  give 
the  glory  to  God  above. 

The  papist  kinds  have  bloody  minds, 

as  well  it  doth  appear  : 
Yet  God  is  kind  to  us  we  find  ; 

let  us  live  in  his  fear. 

When  we  knew  not  of  any  plot, 

so  secret  was  it  laid  : 
Yet  God  knew  well,  what  they,  like  hell, 

had  secret  done  and  said. 

Why  should  not  we,  then,  holy  be, 

and  do  no  wickedness  : 
But  walk  upright,  as  in  His  sight, 

that  loveth  righteousness  ? 

For  God  will  sure  be  with  the  pure, 
and  of  them  takes  a  care, 

That  keepeth  still  His  holy  will, 
and  liveth  in  His  fear. 

For  it  is  plain,  once  and  again, 
our  God  this  land  doth  keep 

From  papists'  plots,  that  wicked  sots 
had  laid  in  hell  so  deep  : 

Therefore  we  must,  still  on  God  trust, 
and  live  unto  His  praise, 

That  is  so  kind,  as  still  to  mind, 
His  church's  good  always. 

Then  what  God  saith,  let's  live  by  faith, 
that  sure  he'll  do  the  same  : 

And  let  us  joy,  and  always  say, 
Praised  be  His  holy  name. 

Though  now  we  be,  orphans  you  see, 
as  children  without  bread  • 

Let's  live  upon  our  God  alone, 
and  look  to  Christ  our  Head. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST. 


391 


Upon  the  sixth  day  of  the  ninth  month,  1678,  sister 
Hardcastle  had  speedy  deliverance  of  a  son,  born  as  an 
answer  of  prayer. 

Upon  the  twelfth  day  of  the  ninth  month,  1678,  there 
was  carried  into  sister  Hardcastle,  the  widow  of  our  late 
deceased  pastor,  by  brother  Ekeley,  brother  Hunt,  brother 
Gwilliam,  and  brother  Terrill,  £150  as  a  gift  from  the 
congregation,  and  some  few  friends  that  were  hearers, 
towards  her  and  her  children's  relief,  after  her  husband's 
decease. 

The  manner  how  it  was  raised  was  thus.  The  same  day 
as  our  pastor  was  buried,  brother  Ekeley  and  brother  Terrill 
advised  together,  that  some  two  brethren  did  go  to  all  the 
congregation,  that  was  any  way  able,  and  to  some  of  the 
hearers,  and  ask  them  what  they  would  subscribe,  and  give 
freely,  as  a  token  of  their  love  to  our  pastor,  now  buried,  his 
wife,  and  children.  Which  brother  Ekeley  and  brother 
Hunt  voluntarily  undertook  to  go  about,  presently,  whiles 
persons'  bowels  were  warm.  And  they  did  get  these  persons 
following  to  subscribe,  and  some  weeks  after  received  of 
them  as  follows: — 


£ 

g. 

d. 

£ 

s. 

d. 

Brother  Edward  Terrill 

20 

0 

0 

Mrs.  Clarke  (his  mother) 

10 

0 

0 

Brother  Edward  Ekeley  . 

5 

0 

0 

Sister  Lux  . 

.     3 

0 

0 

Brother  Samuel  Hunt 

5 

0 

0 

Captain  Thomas  Listun    . 

5 

0 

0 

Brother  Benjamin  Warren 

3 

6 

0 

Brother  Robertson 

.     3 

0 

0 

Brother  Daniel  Gwilliam 

7 

0 

0 

Brother  John  Forde 

4 

0 

0 

Brother  Robert  Bodenham 

5 

0 

0 

Sister  Brookes     . 

.     4 

0 

0 

Brother  King 

5 

0 

0 

Sister  Hill  (widow)  . 

3 

0 

0 

Brother  Henry  Davis 

3 

0 

0 

Mr.  White  . 

.     2 

0 

0 

Brother  John  Fry 

5 

0 

0 

Mr.  Tyler 

2 

0 

0 

Mr.  John  Grant 

7 

0 

0 

Sister  Shuter  (the  elder) 

.     2 

0 

0 

Brother  Jeremy  Courtney 

2 

10 

0 

Sister  Spurgin 

o 

0 

0 

Sister  Phelps  (widow) 

3 

0 

0 

Sister  Kim  bar 

.     1 

0 

0 

Brother  Purnell 

5 

0 

0 

Mr.  Richard  Williams 

1 

0 

0 

Brother  Nathanael  Snead 

5 

0 

0 

Sister  Rose  Teague 

.     1 

0 

0 

Mr.  Samuel  Clarke 

10 

0 

0 

Sister  Saunders 

3 

0 

o 

392 

THE    RECORDS 

£    s.   d. 

Mr.  Wike,  juii.    . 

.200 

Brother  Cornish  . 

Brother  Dennis 

1   10     0 

Brother  Dickason 

Mr.  John  Shuter 

.10     0 

Mr.  Wasbrow 

3     0     0 

Mr.  Moseley  (brazier) . 

.10     0 

Sister  Dawson 

2     0     0 

£   s.  d. 

.10  0 

2     0  0 

£150     0  0 


Total  one  hundred  and  fifty  pounds. 

The  praise  be  to  the  Lord,  who  stirred  up  the  hearts  of 
his  people  so  willingly  to  give,  to  the  glory  of  his  name,  and 
for  the  better  support  of  the  widow  and  fatherless.  (But  of 
the  Lord's  own  we  gave  him.) 

At  the  funeral  of  said  brother  Hardcastle,  we  gave  no 
wine,  but  some  bread  to  the  poor,  gloves  and  hat-bands  to 
the  six  ministers  that  went  by  the  hearse  ;  yet  it  amounted 
well  towards  thirty  pounds,  all  charge  paid,  with  putting  his 
widow  and  children  in  mourning  apparel,  and  putting  a 
tombstone  over  his  grave  ;  all  which  cost  the  church  was  at. 

Upon  4  the  third  of  the  tenth  month,  1678,  the  aforesaid  two 
young  lawyers,  namely,  Joseph  Clarke  and  Mr.  James  Lewis, 
that  were  before  proposed  to  join  with  the  church,  this  day 
being  our  monthly  day  for  prayer*,  in  the  midst  of  the  con- 
gregation, they  gave  a  declaration  of  the  work  of  God  upon 
their  souls,  how  they  came  to  be  born  again,  and  to  close 
with  Christ.  After  they  were  withdrawn  into  another  room, 
the  church  considered  of  what  they  had  delivered  as  their 
experiences;  but  would  not  receive  them  presently,  but 
deferred  it  till  the  church's  next  meeting. 

Upon  the  13th  day  of  tenth  month,  1678,  the  said  Joseph 
Clarke  and  James  Lewis  were  baptized  in  the  river  Frome. 


*  [In  the  margin  is  the  following  list 
without  any  explanation  whatever.] 

£  »•  d> 
Sister  Williamson  .  .10  0 
Mr.  Roster       .  .  .  10     0 


£     8. 

d. 

Brother  Morgan  . 

.     0  10 

0 

Sister  Hughes  . 

0  10 

0 

Brother  Hall 

.     0  10 

0 

Sister  Ellis 

0     5 

0 

OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  393 

Upon  the  17th  day  of  the  tenth  month,  1678,  the  said 
Joseph  Clarke  and  James  Lewis  were,  at  a  day  of  prayer, 
admitted  members  of  this  congregation,  although  we  had  no 
pastor,  by  our  two  ruling  elders  laying  before  them,  in  the 
presence  of  the  church,  their  duties  to  God,  the  church,  and 
the  world. 

Also,  upon  this  said  day,  the  church  took  it  into  consider- 
ation about  getting  a  pastor.  Several  were  discoursed  of,  as 
Mr.  Ralphson,5  Mr.  Founds  [Fownes]  of  London.  But 
they  concluded  to  send  a  letter  to  Mr.  Robert  Browne  of 
Worcester,  who  formerly,  near  eight  years  since,  after 
the  death  of  our  pastor,  Mr.  Ewins,  in  the  interim  of  our 
endeavours  to  get  Mr.  Hardcastle,  and  fearing  that  we  should 
not  get  said  brother  Hardcastle,  we  then  sent  a  conditional 
call  to  said  Mr.  Browne,  then  at  London ; 6  namely,  that  in 
case  Mr.  Hardcastle  could  not  come  to  us  upon  the  call,  or 
invitation,  before  sent  him,  then  we  did  call  Mr.  Browne. 
But  Mr.  Hardcastle  came,  and  so  we  had  not  Mr.  Browne. 
And  now  hearing,  by  several,  that  said  Mr.  Browne  was  not 
yet  engaged  to  any  church,  as  their  officer,  this  day  we 
ordered  a  letter  to  be  sent  to  Mr.  Browne,  as  follows, 
judging  it  most  orderly  to  begin  where  we  left  off. 

5  [His  real  name  was  Jeremiah  Mars-  he  would  not  desist,  until  being  seized, 

den  ;   he  assumed  the  other  to  escape  he  was  committed  to  the  same  prison, 

from  a  charge  of  being  party  to  a  plot  from   whence   he   and   Mr.   Bampfield 

in'  Yorkshire.    He  was  a  great  itinerant,  were  translated  to  a  better  world.   "  He 

preaching   for  many  years  in   various  was  of  narrow  principles,"  says  Calamy, 

parts  of  the  north  of  England,  though  "  in  admitting  to  baptism  and  the  Lord's 

often  hunted  and  pursued  by  his  foes.  supper,   and   blamed    others  for   their 

He  reckoned  it  as  a  mercy,  that  he  was  latitude."     He  is  said  to  have  been  in- 

never  silenced  in  preaching  Christ,  "  but  clined  to  millenarian  views." — Palmer, 

by  human  law  or  external  force.""     In  ii.  534.     Wilson,  ii.  467.] 
1682,  when  Bampfield,   Griffiths,  and  6  [See  before,  p.  131.] 

others  were  imprisoned  for  preaching, 


394  THE    RECORDS 


From  a  church  of  Christ  in  Bristol  to  honoured  Mr.  Browne. 

We  have  been  for  some  time  again  under  the  chastisement  of 
the  Lord,  in  his  taking  away  our  late  pastor,  brother  Hardcastle. 
And,  therefore,  for  some  months  it  hath  been  a  time  of  widow- 
hood and  mourning  with  us.  And  oh,  that  the  Lord  would  say 
the  time  of  our  mourning  was  over ;  for  now  we  begin  to  con- 
sider, and  look  after  the  supply  of  that  our  loss.  And  being 
told  by  some,  that  you  are  not  as  yet  engaged  to  any  church  as 
settled  in  office  among  them,  which,  if  it  be  so,  we  shall  look 
upon  it  as  a  great  mercy,  there  is  a  door  open  for  us  to  renew  our 
former  call  to  you,  that  we  intended  to  have  fastened  upon  you,  if 
we  had  not  been  prevented,  by  the  anticipation  of  that  providence 
that  was  then  in  agitation  before  we  knew  you.  Wherefore,  dear 
sir,  we  do  by  these  entreat  you  to  send  us  word,  whether  you  are 
at  liberty  in  that  case,  or  not.  And  if  you  are  so  at  liberty,  and 
free,  that  you  would  be  pleased  to  come  to  us  as  soon  as  con- 
veniently you  can.  Thus  expecting  a  few  lines  from  you,  in 
answer  hereunto,  by  the  first  opportunity,  we  commend  you  to 
the  Lord,  waiting  upon  our  great  Shepherd,  the  Lord  Jesus,  to 
make  provision  for  us  ;  and  so  remain, 

Your  brethren  in  the  fellowship  and  order  of  the  gospel, 

By  us  signed,  by  order  of  the  congregation,  in  behalf  of  the 
rest, 

Edward  Terrill,  Nathanael  Snead, 

Daniel  Gwilliam,  Richard  Towne, 

William  Dickason,  John  Purnell, 

James  Bland,  Robert  Bodenham, 

William  Evans,  JonN  Forde. 

The  17th  day,  tenth  month,  1678. 

Upon  the  fifth  of  tenth  month,  1678,  Mr.  Tyler  and  his 
wife,  living  at  Bedminster,  were  proposed  to  join  with  the 


OF   A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  395 

congregation,  it  being  on  a  Lord's  day,  in  the  evening,  when 
the  church  stayed  after  the  evening  sermon. 

Upon  the  21st  day  of  the  eleventh  month,  1678,  said  Mr. 
Tyler  and  his  wife  gave  their  declaration,  how  the  Lord 
wrought  upon  them  to  turn  them  from  darkness  to  light. 
They,  as  all  others,  spake  before  the  congregation,  assembled 
on  a  day  of  prayer.  They  being  an  elderly  couple,  that  had 
been  hearers  with  us  about  a  dozen  years,  and  so  suffered 
with  us  in  the  troubles  of  these  times,  the  church  took  the 
more  satisfaction  to  receive  them. 

Upon  the  fourth  day  of  the  12th  month,  1678,  brother 
Tyler  and  his  wife  were  declared  members  of  this  congrega- 
tion, by  one  of  the  ruling  elders,  at  our  day  of  prayer ;  the 
church  having  no  pastor  at  present  on  earth,  but  their  great 
Shepherd,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  heaven. 

Also,  this  same  fourth  day  of  12th  month,  1678,  these  three 
persons  were  proposed  to  join  with  the  congregation ;  viz., 

A  young  man,  named  John  Cornish;  an  ancient  maid, 
namely,  Jane  Daniel;  and  a  young  gentlewoman,  namely, 
Mrs.  Cicely  Lewis.     They  desired  to  join  with  the  church. 

Upon  the  eighteenth  day  of  the  12th  month,  1678,  being  a 
day  of  prayer,  Mrs.  Martha  Ridley  was  propounded  to  join 
with  the  congregation ;  and  because  she  formerly  desired  to  be 
proposed,  near  a  year  since,  to  one  of  the  elders,  who  deferred 
her,  or  put  her  off  for  trial,  and  now  she  again  desiring  it,  was 
this  day  proposed ;  and  because  three  others  were  to  be  spoken 
with,  she  was  permitted  to  give  her  declaration  with  them. 

And  so  these  four  (John  Cornish,  Mrs.  Cicely  Lewis,  Jane 
Daniel,  Mrs.  Martha  Ridley,)  gave,  one  after  another,  an 
account  before  the  whole  church,  by  what  means  the  Lord 
wrought  upon  them  ;  when  and  how  they  came  to  be  changed 
or  converted,  and  to  see  their  lost  state  by  nature,  and  their 
closing  with  Christ.  Which  when  they  had  done,  they  were 
desired,  all  four,  to  withdraw  out  of  the  room.     And  then  the 


396  THE    RECORDS 

church  together  considered  what  they  had  said,  and  were  all 
satisfied  to  receive  them  all ;  which,  after  debate  about  each, 
the  church  declared  their  consent  by  their  silence.  And  then 
these  four  were  called  in,  and  told  by  one  of  the  ruling  elders, 
that  the  church,  in  the  judgment  of  charity,  was  satisfied  with 
their  declarations,  hoping  they  were  sincere,  and  should  now 
next  inquire  into  their  conversations;  and  so  the  church, 
therefore,  deferred  the  receiving  of  them  as  members  until  the 
next  day  of  prayer,  and  so  told  them  then  they  would  hear 
farther  from  the  church. 

Upon  the  twenty-eighth  day  of  12th  month,  1678,  these 
three  persons  were  baptized  in  the  river  Frome,  by  our 
brother  Jennings,  he  that  used  to  administer  that  ordinance  of 
baptism  unto  this  congregation,  being  a  member  with  us,  and 
was  above  twenty  years  since  sent  forth  a  minister,  by  the 
church  in  Gloucester ;  who  did,  all  the  time  of  our  late  pastor, 
brother  Hardcastle,  administer  that  ordinance  ;  who  the  Lord 
in  mercy  spared  to  us,  and  was  serviceable  upon  all  occasions, 
after  the  loss  of  two  pastors.  So  that  the  work  of  the  Lord 
is  carried  on  among  us,  only  we  do  not  break  bread,  until  we 
have  a  pastor.  The  persons  now  passed  under  the  ordinance, 
were — 

John  Cornish,  Mrs.  Cicely  Lewis,  Mrs.  Martha  Ridley, 
baptized. 

Anno  1679. 

Upon  the  fourth  day  of  the  first  month,  1678-9,  those  three 
persons  were  admitted ;  viz.,  brother  John  Cornish,  sister 
Cicely  Lewis,  and  sister  Martha  Ridley,  at  a  day  of  prayer 
were  added  members  of  this  church,  by  one  of  the  ruling 
ciders.  The  other  person  that  was  propounded,  and  spoken 
with  by  the  church,  viz.,  Jane  Daniel,  being  not  at  this  day  of 
prayer,  and  some  other  reason,  was  omitted. 

And  this  said  day  the   church   chose  four  sisters  of  the 


OF    A   CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  397 

church  that  were  widows,  each  of  above  sixty  years  of  age,  to 
be  deaconesses  for  the  congregation,  to  look  after  the  sick 
sisters ;  namely, 

Sister  Smith,  the  elder  ;  sister  Spurgeon  ;  sister  Webb,  the 
elder;  sister  Walton — deaconesses. 

Upon  the  eighteenth  day  of  the  first  month,  1679,  three  of 
those  four  persons  for  deaconesses,  wrere,  by  fasting  and  prayer, 
commended  to  the  work  and  office  of  widows,  or  deaconesses, 
to  this  church :  and  so,  solemnly,  they  were  set  apart  to  that 
work  of  looking  after  the  sick  members  of  the  congregation ; 
namely, 

Sister  Smith,  the  elder;  sister  Webb,  the  elder;  sister 
Walton, — deaconesses  instituted,  all  above  the  age  of 
sixty  years,  as  1  Tim.  v.  9. 

They  being,  the  day  of  pray er  before,  elected,  the  elders  sent 
two  sisters  unto  them,  to  acquaint  them  of  it,  and  to  know 
whether  they  would  accept  of  it ;  which  they  all  did,  except 
sister  Spurgeon.  She  was  by  no  means  willing,  and  by  some 
providence,  of  her  relation's  sick  family,  was  hindered  from 
being  here  this  day  of  prayer ;  but  sister  Smith,  sister  Webb, 
and  sister  Walton,  that  were  willing  to  accept  of  the  charge, 
the  church,  in  the  after  part  of  the  day  of  prayer,  did  depute 
those  three  to  their  work  thus: — 

First,  it  being  demanded  of  the  church  whether  they  would 
now  set  them  apart,  which  by  their  silence  was  granted : — 

Secondly,  it  was  demanded  of  the  sisters,  sister  Smith  sister 
Webb,  and  sister  Walton,  whether  they  were  willing  to  bring 
themselves  under  an  obligation,  in  themselves,  not  to  marry, 
because  of  that  scripture,  1  Tim.  v.  11.  If  they  were  willing, 
we  should  know  it  by  their  silence.  If  they  were  not  willing 
to  bring  themselves  under  obligation,  that  then  they  might  tell 
so  to  any  sister,  who  might  speak  to  any  brother  to  declare 


398  THE    RECORDS 

they,  or  any  of  them,  were  not  willing  to  bring  themselves 
under  such  a  tie  or  bar. 

But  by  their  silence  they  acquiesced,  to  engage  themselves 
not  to  marry.  After  which  they  were  declared  by  one  of  the 
ruling  elders,  namely,  brother  Terrill,  to  be  deaconesses,  set 
apart  to  that  work  and  service  in  the  church,  to  look  after  the 
sick  members.  Their  work  was  further  declared  to  them  in 
these  particulars : — 

1.  To  visit  the  sick,  to  have  their  eye  and  ear  open  to  hearken 
and  inquire  who  is  sick,  and  to  visit  the  sick  sisters ;  in  an 
especial  manner  to  see  what  they  need,  because  it  may  not  be 
so  proper  for  men  in  several  cases. 

2.  To  visit  not  only  sick  sisters,  but  sick  brethren  also ;  and 
therefore  some  conceive  [this]  may  be  the  reason  why  they 
must  be  sixty  years  of  age,  that  none  occasion  [of  offence] 
may  be  given ;  and  as  1  Tim.  v.  14. 

3.  Not  only  to  take  care  of  their  sick  bodies,  of  the  brethren 
and  sisters,  but  that  their  wants  may  be  supplied ;  and  there- 
fore to  make  reports  back  of  their  condition,  to  the  elders  and 
deacons  of  the  congregation. 

4.  It  is  their  duty  also  to  speak  a  word  to  their  souls,  as 
occasion  requires,  for  support  or  consolation,  to  build  them  up 
in  a  spiritual  lively  faith  in  Jesus  Christ.  For,  as  some 
observe,  there  is  not  an  office  of  Christ  in  his  church,  but  it  is 
dipped  in  the  blood  of  our  Lord  Jesus. 

5.  Some  think  it  is  their  duty  to  attend  the  sick  ;  and  if  so, 
then  they  are  to  be  maintained  by  the  church. 

This  being  declared,  those  three  sisters  were  set  apart,  as 
deaconesses  of  this  congregation,  by  fasting  and  prayer,  said 
day. 

Upon  thirteenth  day  second  month,  1679,  Mrs.  Allen  was 
proposed  to  join  with  the  congregation,  upon  a  Lord'3  day, 
when  the  church  stayed  after  evening  sermon. 

Upon  the  twenty-second  day  of  second  month,  1679,  said 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  399 

Mrs.  Allen  gave  her  declaration  of  the  work  of  God  upon  her 
soul,  at  a  day  of  prayer,  in  the  midst  of  the  congregation  ;  and 
the  church  received  satisfaction  to  receive  her. 

Upon  the  same  day  John  Messenger,  and  his  sister  Eliza- 
beth, were  proposed  to  join  with  the  congregation. 

Upon  same  day,  the  brethren,  having  received  an  answer 
from  the  church  at  Westmancoate,  that  they  would  not  spare 
brother  Browne  to  come  to  us,  took  it  into  consideration  to 
send  to  Mr.  Fownes  of  London,  a  minister  there. 

And  they  also,  the  same  day,  agreed  to  pay  one  half,  with 
brother  Gifford's  people  the  other  half,  to  buy  a  burying-place 
for  ourselves,  a  garden  in  Redcross  Lane, — and  there  they 
buried  that  weak,  but  holy,  lamb-like  servant  of  God,  Henry 
Hynam,  pastor  before  brother  Gifford, — that  we  might  bury 
our  dead  without  the  ceremonies  of  the  parish  parsons  in  their 
yards. 

Upon  seventeenth  day  3rd  month,  1679,  sister  Mary 
Mallard  departed  this  life  at  Chew,  and  there  interred  at 
Capt.  Vicarridge's. 

Upon  the  twentieth  day  of  3rd  month,  1679,  John  Mes- 
senger, and  his  sister  Elizabeth  Messenger,  they  gave  their 
declaration  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  upon  their  souls,  before 
the  congregation  present  at  their  day  of  prayer.  The  congre- 
gation, in  the  judgment  of  charity,  did  agree  to  receive  them; 
but  John  being  but  lately  wrought  upon,  [they]  concluded  to 
let  them  wait  a  while  before  they  be  received,  and  to  inquire 
into  their  conversations,  if  it  be  suitable  to  what  they  profess. 

LTpon  twenty-fifth  day  of  3rd  month,  1679,  sister  Murray 
departed  this  life. 

Upon  the  tenth  day  of  the  4th  month,  1679,  Mrs.  Goodman 
was  propounded  to  join  with  this  congregation,  at  a  day  of 
prayer. 

Upon  the  twenty-fourth  day  of  the  4th  month,  1679,  Mrs. 
Elizabeth  Ewins,  (daughter  of  Major  Clarke,  deceased,  and 


400  THE    RECORDS 

wife  to  Mr.  John  Ewins,  the  only  child  and  son  of  Mr.  Thomas 
Ewins,  our  late  pastor,)  she  was  propounded  to  join  with  this 
congregation. 

The  church,  having  had  a  denial  from  Mr.  Browne,  or  rather 
from  the  church  he  walked  with,  upon  the  twenty-second  day 
of  the  2nd  month  last  as  aforesaid,  agreed  to  send  to  Mr. 
Fownes,  a  minister  in  London,  to  come  to  us.  And  accord- 
ingly, by  Our  endeavours  through  friends  there,  and  letters  to 
invite  him,  he  came  down  the  twenty-sixth  day  of  4th  month, 
1679. 

Upon  the  fifteenth  day  of  the  5th  month,  1679,  being  a  day 
of  prayer,  the  congregation  assembled,  and  gave  Mr.  Fownes 
a  call.  First,  they  sought  the'  Lord,  and  then  proposed  the 
question  to  the  church,  whether  they  would  unanimously  call 
him  ?  To  which  they  all  assented.  Then  one  of  the  elders, 
to  wit,  Edward  Terrill,  drew  out  a  writing  or  instrument,  for 
all  the  members  to  sign,  and  to  deliver  to  Mr.  Fownes,  as  their 
call,  under  their  hands.  And  so  [he]  read  the  same  to  the 
congregation,  if  they  did  like  it  so  to  do :  a  copy  of  which  is 
as  follows. 

The  brethren  approving  of  it,  after  the  elders  and  deacons 
subscribed,  the  brethren  were  called,  one  by  one,  and  they 
subscribed  their  names.  And  after  them  the  sisters  were 
called  upon,  by  the  church's  roll,  to  answer  their  names,  and 
to  ask  them  every  one  in  particular,  one  by  one,  whether  they 
would  as  their  act  have  their  names  subscribed  for  them,  to 
call  Mr.  Fownes  on  trial  for  pastoral  eldership  ?  And  they 
all  were  unanimous,  and  so  it  was  signed. 

Which  when  done,  the  church  sent  two  of  the  brethren  to 
call  Mr.  Fownes  to  the  meeting  ;  and  being  come,  one  of  the 
elders  made  a  speech  to  him,  acquainting  him,  that  after  seek- 
ing the  Lord  they  unanimously  pitched  upon  him  to  be  their 
pastor,  and  that  by  God's  grace  having  been  counted  worthy 
to  be  a  church  of  Christ,  and  by  him  had  been  a  remnant  of 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  401 

poor  souls,  kept  in  much  peace  and  unity  hitherto,  and  did 
hope  the  Lord  would  make  him  an  instrument  to  cany  on  the 
Lord's  work  in  this  church  or  congregation,  to  his  praise ;  and 
then  delivered  him  the  call  in  writing  under  our  hands.  And 
then  next  acquainted  him,  that  he  might  know  it  was  all  our 
unanimous  consent  and  act,  he  should  see  the  sign  of  the 
church,  which  was  this ; — every  member  presently  lift  up  their 
right  hands  to  the  Lord.  And  so  the  room  being  thronged, 
as  it  were  a  cloud  of  naked  hands  were  erected  towards  the 
ceiling  of  the  room. 

Then  Mr.  Fownes  beholding  the  same,  so  joint  an  act  of 
the  church,  said  he  could  not  tell  what  to  make  of  the  pro- 
vidence of  God ;  but  this  their  act  did  seem  to  interpret  it  to 
him.  But  for  the  present,  as  he  did  think  they  would  not 
expect,  so  he  could  not  give  them  answer,  till  he  had  returned 
home  to  London.  And  if  that,  through  his  outward  occasions, 
he  did  not  give  them  a  sudden  answer,  yet  he  would  not  have 
us  to  think  it  was  a  slighting  of  us. 

And  then  he  prayed  with  us,  and  after  departed,  because  he 
was  entreated  to  preach  that  evening  at  Mr.  Weeks's  meeting- 
house. 

A  copy  of  the  call  to  Brother  Fownes,  as  follow eth  : — 

In  pursuance  of  the  command  of  God,  and  our  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ,  to  worship  the  Lord  in  separation  from  the  world,  accord- 
ing to  his  institutions  and  the  examples  of  the  saints  in  holy  scrip- 
tures, as  2  Cor.  vi.  17 ;  Matt,  xxviii.  19,  20  ;  Ezra  vi.  21 ;  Neh. 
xhi.  3,  x.  28,  29  ;  Rev.  xviii.  4  ;  Jer.  li.  6—10  ;  Acts  ii.  41,  42, 
47,  xiii.  2,  3,  and  xiv.  23,  &c, — We,  whose  names  are  under 
written,  having  obtained  mercy  from  the  Lord  to  become  a  congre- 
gation of  Christ,  in  Bristol,  formerly  walking  with  brother  Thomas 
Hardcastle,  deceased,  being  a  remnant  of  poor  souls  that,  time  after 
time,  by  the  grace  of  our  Lord  Jesus  with  some  power  upon  our 
hearts,  was  made  sensible  of  our  lost  state  by  nature,  and  moved  to 

D  D 


402  THE    RECORDS 

fly  for  refuge  to  the  hope  set  hefore  us,  and  having  laid  hold  by 
faith  on  that  eternal  life  in  Christ  Jesus,  and  so  given  up  ourselves 
to  him  to  be  our  King,  Priest,  and  Prophet  :  whose  holiness  we 
desire  to  dread,  as  being  Him  that  walks  in  the  midst  of  the  seven 
golden  candlesticks,  Rev.  ii.  1  ;  and  therefore  would  keep  in 
remembrance  his  late  chastisements  of  us,  by  his  sudden  stroke 
removing  our  pastor  from  us,  and  taking  of  him  to  himself,  as  we 
fear,  for  our  omissions,  transgression,  and  sins  : — Yet,  under  all 
his  corrections,  we  would  hope  in  his  merciful  promises,  that  he 
will  be  with  us  to  the  end  of  the  world,  Ps.  Ixxxix.  28—34.  And 
eyeing  his  gracious  providence  towards  us,  as  it  is  written,  Eph.  iv. 
8 — 15,  when  he  ascended  up  on  high  he  gave  gifts  unto  men  ; 
some  to  be  pastors  and  teachers,  for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of 
Christ :  till  we  all  come  to  the  unity  of  the  faith,  and  the  know- 
ledge of  the  Son  of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  in  the  measure  of 
the  stature  of  the  fulness  of  Christ. 

Therefore,  to  the  end  we  may  keep  the  faith,  as  it  was  once 
delivered  to  the  saints,  Jude  3,  and  not  be  corrupted  from  the 
simplicity  that  is  in  Christ,  2  Cor.  xi.  3  : — We  do  by  these  presents 
call  you,  our  dearly  beloved  brother,  George  Fownes,  minister  of 
the  gospel,  to  be  our  pastor  under  Jesus  Christ,  our  great  Shep- 
herd :  to  preach  to  us  the  doctrine  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
gospel  of  his  free  grace  :  and  to  administer  unto  us  all  the 
ordinances  of  our  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  according  to  the  primitive 
institution  and  practice  of  the  saints,  recorded  in  the  holy  scrip- 
tures, laying  aside  all  traditions  and  inventions  of  men,  from  which 
we  desire  in  the  Lord's  fear  to  separate,  as  our  bounden  duty,  and 
to  follow  the  Lord  in  sincere  obedience  to  his  divine  will,  laid  down 
in  his  holy  word,  contained  in  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  left 
to  us  and  all  generations,  praying  that  we  may  have  the  guidance 
of  his  Holy  Spirit  to  understand  that  rule  of  his  word,  that  we 
may  walk  thereby  to  the  praise  of  the  glory  of  his  grace,  who  hath 
called  us  out  of  darkness  into  his  marvellous  light :  so  rendering 
unto  the  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Ghost,  all  glory,  dominion,  and 
praise,  world  without  end.  Amen.  And  as  a  testimony  of  this  our 
joint  and  solemn  call,  given  to  you,  our  said   beloved   brother, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST. 


403 


George  Fownes,  on  trial  for  pastoral  eldership  among  us,  we  do, 
in  the  behalf  of  ourselves,  and  the  rest  of  church  that  walk  with 
us,  give  it  under  our  hands  this  15th  day  of  the  5th  month,  anno 
Dom.  1679. 


Tho.  Ellis,  ruling  elder, 

Richard  King, 

William  Dickason,  deacon, 

Edw.  Willis, 

Robert  Lewis, 

Jos.  Clarke, 

James  Lewis, 

James  Bland, 

Tho.  Reeves, 

Sam.  Hunt, 

Tho.  Jones, 

Tho.  Arney, 

Nich.  Gregory, 

Edward  Terrill,  ruling  elder, 

Nathaniel  Snead, 

John  Fry, 

Henry  Davis, 

John  Morgan, 

Fran.  Whitehead, 


Wm.  Kemp, 
Edward  Ekeley, 
Joshua  Bryan, 
Benj.  Warren, 
John  Robertson, 
Tho.  Hall, 
Wm.  Evans, 
John  Ford,  deacon, 
Roger  Hill, 
Tho.  Tyler, 
John  Purnell, 
Richard  Dennis, 
John  Cornish, 
John  Messenger, 
Thomas  Jennings, 
Richard  Town, 
Robert  Bodenham, 
Tho.  Child, 


Margaret  Webb,  |  Deacon- 
Dorothy  Smith,  J    esses, 
Anne  Ellis,  sen. 
Mary  Jennings, 


Susan  Dennis, 
Rose  Teague, 

Joan  Dickason,  and  eighty- 
nine  other  females. 


Upon  the  fifth  day  of  the  6th  month,  1679,  Mr.  Fownes 
being  yesterday  gone  on  his  journey  towards  London,  it  being 
our  monthly  day  of  prayer,  Mrs.  Ewins  and  Mrs.  Goodman 
were  spoken  with  before  the  church.  They  gave  the  work  of 
God  upon  their  souls,  and  the  church  was  satisfied  with  it  to 
receive  them   members.     The   Lady   Waller,   Sir  William's 

D  D  2 


404  THE    RECORDS 

wife,7    being    a    member    of    another    church,    was    there 
present. 

Upon  this  fifth  day  of  the  6th  month,  1679,  sister  Webb, 
one  of  the  deaconesses,  was  interred  after  the  meeting  was 
done  at  Walborrows.  She  was  about  sixty-four  years  of  age. 
Departed  the  fourth  day  of  the  sixth  month.  She  left  a  good 
savour  behind  her:  did  much  good  with  her  little.  She 
laboured  hard  in  her  way  of  distilling  waters,  and  gave  con- 
stantly while  she  lived  forty  shillings  a  year  for  the  pastor, 
and  left  507.  to  the  use  of  the  congregation. 

Upon  the  nineteenth  day  of  the  6th  month,    1679,  Mr. 
Joseph  White,  and  his  wife,  and  Mrs.  Clarke,  the  younger, 
the  wife  of  Mr.  Sam.  Clarke,  were  proposed  to  join  with  the 
congregation.     And  by  reason  these  had  been  well  known  to 
us  many  years,  having  kept  constant  to  our  meetings  in  the 
times  of  our  persecution,  and  of  blameless  conversations,  we 
took  an  account  of  the  work  of  God  upon  their  souls  the  same 
day,  being  a  day  of  prayer  that  the  church  kept   once  in 
fourteen  days  since  the  decease  of  our  late  pastor,  until  we 
have  another.     And  so  Mr.  Joseph  White,  and  Mrs.  White, 
his  wife,  and  Mrs.  Clarke,  they  gave  their  declarations,  one 
after  another,  how  the  Lord  wrought  upon  their  souls ;  and 
the  church  was  satisfied  therewith  to  receive  them  all.     Mrs. 
Clarke  especially  made  many  of  the  members  weep  for  joy  to 
hear  the  gracious  work  of  the  Lord  upon  her  soul,  and  all  had 
much   communion   in    the    spirit    with   her    in   her   sincere 

breathings. 

Upon  the  29th  day  of  the  6th  month,  1679,  these  following 
were  baptized  in  the  river  Frome,  at  sister  Young's  house,  by 
brother  Jennings,  our  usual  administrator ;  viz.,  Mr.  Joseph 

7  [She  was  the  third  wife  of  Sir  war.  He  was  attached  to  the  presby- 
William  Waller,  the  well  known  leader  terian  party.  He  died  in  the  year 
of  the  parliamentary  forces  in  the  civil       1668.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  405 

White,  John  Messenger,  Mrs.  Ewins,  Mrs.  Allen,  Mrs. 
Clarke,  junior,  Mrs.  Goodman,  and  Elizabeth  Mes- 
senger. 

Upon  the  2nd  of  Sept.  1679,  these  following  were  received, 
and  declared  members  of  this  congregation,  being  a  day  of 
prayer  : — Brother  Joseph  White,  and  sister  White,  his  wife  ; 
brother  John  Messenger,  and  sister  Elizabeth  Messenger,  his 
sister ;  sister  Clarke,  junior,  sister  Eliza  Ewins,  sister  Sarah 
Allen,  sister  Goodman  ;  added  members.  The  church  having 
no  pastor  at  present,  these  were  taken  into  the  congregation, 
as  members  thereof,  by  one  of  the  ruling  elders,  brother 
Terrill,  on  a  day  of  prayer,  laying  their  duty  before  them,  how 
they  ought  to  behave  themselves  in  the  house  of  God,  1  Tim. 
iii.  15  :  1st,  their  duty  towards  God ;  2nd,  towards  the  church, 
or  every  member;  3rd,  towards  the  world,  as  becometh 
saints. 

Upon  the  sixteenth  day  of  the  7th  month,  1679,  being  a 
day  of  prayer,  Mr.  Fownes  being  the  second  time  come  from 
London,  on  the  5th  instant,  spent  two  Lord's  days  more  with 
us,  and  tiffs  one  day  of  prayer  being  come,  and  the  church 
assembled  to  seek  the  Lord,  in  the  after  part  of  the  day  we 
did  by  one  of  our  elders,  viz.,  brother  Ellis,  put  the  question 
to  said  Mr.  George  Fownes,  whether  he  did  accept  of  our  call 
that  we  gave  him  two  months  before?  He  answered,  he 
owned  our  call  to  be  the  voice  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  unto 
him,  and  therefore  was  willing,  as  the  Lord  should  help  him, 
to  serve  this  church  whilst  he  lived,  or  the  rest  of  his 
days  :  desiring  our  prayers,  and  to  overlook  and  pardon 
all  weaknesses  and  human  infirmities  that  we  might  see 
in  him. 

He  thus  declaring  his  accepting  our  call,  then  we  did,  by 
the  said  brother  Ellis,  desire  the  church  to  declare  their 
unanimous  consent  and  token  of  their  choosing  him  to  be  their 
pastor,  by  lifting  up  their  right  hands  to  the  Lord ;  which 


406  THE    RECORDS 

they  did  immediately,  every  one  of  them.     And  then  said 
brother  Ellis  concluded  the  day  with  prayer.8 

Upon  the  24th  day  of  the  7th  month,  1679,  (our  pastor 
elect  being  two  days  before  returned  to  London  to  fetch  down 
his  family,)  it  happened  that  a  very  grievous  and  sad  tidings 
came  to  the  ears  of  the  church,  concerning  one  of  the  members, 
namely,  Mary  Smith,  that  had  walked  with  us  about  five 
years  four  months,  being  a  servant  maid,  living  at  a  place 
called  Woolland,  four  miles  from  this  city,  with  one  William 
Ship,  a  country  yeoman,  being  a  widower.  She  was  reported 
to  be  with  child.  One  of  the  elders,  the  same  day,  sent  two 
sisters  of  the  congregation,  sister  Dickason  and  sister  Dennis, 
to  her  to  examine  the  matter,  and  they  found  it  to  be  true. 
And  she  confessed  the  matter,  and  said  it  was  by  her  master, 
who,  she  said,  at  first  forced  her.  And  then,  a  day  after,  the 
elders  sent  over  two  brethren  to  her  and  her  master,  and  had 
them  face  to  face.  She  charged  him  with  it,  he  could  not 
deny  it ;  yet  they  could  not  prevail  with  him  to  marry  her, 
seeing  he  had  wronged  her.  The  sisters  sent  were  ordered  by 
brother  Terrill  to  summon  her  to  appear  before  th^congrega- 
tion  the  Lord'  s  day  following.  So,  accordingly,  with  great 
shame  and  weeping,  and  covering  her  face,  she  came. 

So  upon  the  28th  day  of  the  7th  month,  1679,  being  the 
next  Lord's  day,  when  the  afternoon  sermon  was  ended,  the 
members  of  the  congregation  were  desired  to  stay,  and  those 
that  remained  that  were  not  of  the  congregation,  nor  proposed 
to  it,  nor  members  of  other  churches,  were  desired  to  depart. 

8  [Mr.  George  Fownes  was  educated  assistant  to    Mr.  Anthony  Palmer,   at 

at  Cambridge,  and  regarded  as  a  good  Pinner's   Hall.     He  also    preached    a 

scholar.     Having  became  a  baptist,  he  lecture    in    Lothbury.       Mr.    Palmer 

left  the  church  of  England  and  his  living  dying  in  January,  1678,  the  church  at 

of  High  Wycombe,  Bucks,  some  time  Pinner's  Hall   chose  for  a  pastor  Mr. 

before  the  Restoration.     For  a  while  he  Richard   Wavell,  an  independent,  and 

travelled  about,  preaching  as  occasion  Mr.  Fownes"s  connexion  with  it  ceased, 

offered,  but  finally  settled  in  London  as  —Crosby,  iii.  28;  Wilson,  ii.  2.58. J 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  407 

And  tli  us  only  the  church  being  together,  and  the  aforesaid 
offending  member,  Mary  Smith,  being  present,  according  to 
summons  that  was  sent  her,  she  was  then  cast  out  of  the  con- 
gregation by  one  of  the  ruling  elders,  namely,  brother  Terrill, 
although  we  had  no  pastor. 

The  manner  of  proceeding  in  this  sad  work  was  thus : — 
First,  he  showed  that  there  were  some  cases  wherein  a  con- 
gregation might  proceed  to  their  duty  of  excommunicating  a 
member,  without  previous  admonitions :  that  is,  such  offences 
as  were  open,  notorious,  and  publicly  scandalous,  of  which  this 
was  one.  Secondly,  he  declared  before  the  whole  church  her 
crime,  or  sin  committed.  Thirdly,  proved  from  the  holy 
scriptures,  that  this  her  offence  was  an  evil  that  God  would 
enter  into  judgment  against ;  therefore  the  church  might  con- 
demn and  cast  out  that  person  that  had  done  that  evil  deed ; 
1  Cor.  v.  3 — 5.  Fourthly,  declared  that  although  this  was  in 
hatred,  abhorrence,  and  detestation  of  her  sin,  that  the  flesh 
might  be  destroyed,  yet  it  was  in  love  to  her  soul,  that  it 
might,  if  possible,  be  saved  in  the  day  of  Christ,  or  final  judg- 
ment. Fifthly,  he  declared,  that  in  faithfulness  to  God,  and 
obedience  to  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ's  commands  and  institu- 
tions, that  the  church  might  be  cleansed,  and  not  be  partakers 
of  sin  and  wickedness  to  provoke  the  Lord,  she  having  run 
away  from  the  Lord,  and  his  paths  of  holiness,  it  was  their 
bounden  duty  to  cast  her  out  of  the  ship;  Jonah  i.  11,  12. 
Sixthly,  therefore,  then,  in  the  name  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  [by]  the  power  and  authority  he  hath  given  to  his 
churches,  the  sentence  was  passed  upon  her;  and  at  the 
beginning  of  the  name  of  '  Lord'  all  the  brethren  put  off  their 
hats;  namely, — We  do  declare  that  thou,  Mary  Smith,  for 
thy  sin  of  fornication,  art  from  henceforth  no  more  a  member 
of  this  congregation  ;  but  art  cast  forth  into  the  world,  and  to 
enjoy  no  longer  the  privileges  of  God's  house,  nor  partaker 
with  us  in  his  holy  mysteries,  and  the  Lord  have  mercy  on  thy 


408  THE    RECORDS 

soul.  And  seventhly,  said  brother  Terrill  declared,  that  though 
by  the  command  of  the  Lord  Ave  were  thus  to  separate  her 
from  us,  she  having  separated  herself  by  such  sin,  that  was 
not  the  spot  of  God's  people,  and  so  entered  herself  again  into 
the  power  and  dominion  of  sin  and  kingdom  of  Satan,  in  not 
avoiding  the  appearance  of  evil,  but  rejected  the  grace  and 
teaching  of  God's  word  and  Spirit  of  holiness,  and  so  forsaking 
the  congregation  and  path  of  the  righteous :  yet,  this  act  of 
the  church,  and  sentence  pronounced  against  her,  was  not  so 
decretal,  but  that  if  God  should  grant  her  repentance  to  life 
not  to  be  repented  of,  such  as  should  be  to  the  satisfaction  of 
the  whole  church,  she  might  be  received  in  again  hereafter. 

After  which  he  prayed  for  her,  and  prayer  was  made  by  the 
church  for  her,  that  she  might  not  sin  any  more,  lest  a  worse 
thing  come  upon  her.  But  rather,  if  she  belong  to  the  Lord, 
she  might  be  thoroughly  humbled,  convinced,  converted,  and 
restored  to  Christ,  that  she  might  not  be  continued  under  the 
sentence,  and  at  last  cast  out  of  heaven  also.  Thus  this  sad 
work  was  ended,  that  we  never  knew  the  like  evil  committed 
in  this  church  before. 

Also,  the  same  time  (after)  an  admonition  was  sent  to  sister 
Ship,  who  lived  near  her,  at  Woolland,  for  not  watching  over 
her,  and  reproving  her,  the  said  Mary  Smith,  for  some  evil 
sister  Ship  now  saith  she  knew  her  guilty  of  a  year  since  and 
more,  as  lying,  &c,  and  yet  did  not  deal  with  her  according 
to  her  duty,  Levit.  xix.  17;  and  Matt,  xviii.  15 — 17.  And 
secondly,  a  reproof  to  the  said  sister  Ship  for  her  own  late 
absence,  and  neglecting  of  assembling  with  the  church.  The 
messengers  appointed  were  brother  Bodenham  and  brother 
Gwilliam,  and  that  they  go  to  the  master  of  the  poor  maid  cast 
forth,  and  endeavour  to  persuade  him  to  marry  her,  seeing  he 
had  abused  her. 

Also,  the  same  time,  an  admonition  was  sent  from  the 
church  to  another  member,  namely,  sister  Watkins,  a  widow 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  409 

woman,  for  her  scandalous  walking  disorderly,  not  tending 
her  business,  but  making  it  a  common  practice  to  go  up  and 
down  borrowing  money,  of  any  whomsoever  she  could,  and 
not  endeavouring  to  pay  it  again,  taking  no  care  therein ;  to 
the  reproach  of  the  gospel  and  ways  of  God,  and  of  which  she 
had  been  several  times  reproved,  and  therefore  the  church 
would  be  forced  to  withdraw  from  her ;   1  Thes.  iii.  6. 

The  same  evening,  after  Mary  Smith  was  cast  out  of  the 
church,  as  the  sisters  were  departing,  brother  Terr  ill  moved 
to  the  brethren,  that  notwithstanding  we  had  done  our  duty 
and  cast  her  forth,  yet  we  should  endeavour  to  put  a  stop  to 
the  dishonour  brought  to  the  ways  of  the  Lord  by  this  her 
evil.  And  our  first  way  to  attain  that  end  was,  that  the 
church  should  send  some  brethren  to  ride  over  to  the  man,  the 
said  Mary  Smith's  master,  that  had  done  this  fact,  and  per- 
suade him  to  marry  her ;  that  two  brethren  should  go  the 
morrow,  and  two  after  if  they  could  not  persuade,  and  more 
after  to  follow  it  now  betimes:  to  which  they  agreed.  So 
brother  Bodenham  and  brother  Child  went  over  to  the  man, 
but  could  not  prevail ;  his  own  natural  brother,  one  Rich[ard], 
then  stood  in  the  way  and  much  hindered.  Next  day,  brother 
Bryan  went,  and  he  took  with  him  brother  Gwyn,  and  could 
not  prevail  with  the  said  brother. 

On  the  fifth  day  of  the  week,  being  the  second  day  of  the 
8th  month,  1679,  brother  Terrill  himself  rode  over,  and  took 
with  him  brother  Gifford,  pastor  of  the  other  baptized  congre- 
gation. And  the  Lord  favoured  them  with  his  presence  ; 
although,  coming  to  the  house,  they  could  find  none  within, 
but  were  led  to  the  man,  William  Ship,  in  the  field  with  his 
plough.  Who,  riding  up  to  him,  took  him  aside,  desiring  to 
speak  to  him  about  the  matter  of  his  sin,  in  abusing  his  maid; 
and  that  seeing  he  had  done  so,  it  was  his  duty  to  marry  her, 
by  the  command  of  the  Lord  in  that  case :  naming  two  scrip- 
tures to  him,  viz.,  Exod.  xxii.  16,  and  Deut.  xxii.  28.     He 


410 


TIIK    RECORDS 


seemed  to  be  very  opposite,  and  in  a  bad  humour;  but  we 
prayed  him  to  walk  to  his  house  with  us.  And  there  further 
discoursed  him,  and  read  those  scriptures  to  him,  and  desired 
him  to  read  them  himself,  which  he  did ;  telling  him  our  end 
was  only  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  good  of  his  soul,  that 
brought  us  thither,  to  lay  before  him  life  and  death :  whether 
he  would  sin  more  by  not  obeying  the  Lord  in  such  case  to 
marry  her,  which  was  his  first  step  to  repentance,  if  God 
should  afterwards  grant  them  the  grace  of  repentance  unto 
life ;  with  many  other  arguments  we  used  to  him. 

As  we  were  thus  persuading  him,  his  brother  Ship  came  in, 
by  providence,  to  us.  We  reasoned  with  him  about  the 
matter,  and  those  two  scriptures  before  named,  that  showed  it 
his  positive  duty,  and  asked  him  what  he  would  say  against 
it.  For  that  was  no  ceremonial  law,  but  part  of  God's  judicial 
law  :  what  man  was  to  do  between  one  another,  and  what  the 
magistrate  was  to  require  and  see  done ;  and  that  it  was 
distinct  from  the  ceremonial  law  that  was  for  Aaron  and  the 
priesthood  and  Levites  to  perform.  His  said  brother  argued 
several  other  things  against  his  marrying  of  her,  but  we  told 
him  that  it  was  written  his  positive  duty,  seeing  he  had 
humbled  her.  And  therefore,  he  that  should  break  one  of  the 
least  of  God's  commands,  and  teach  men  so,  he  should  be  called 
the  least  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven ;  to  bid  him  beware  of  dis- 
suading him  to  the  contrary  ;  and  with  many  other  arguments, 
that  the  glory  of  God  should  be  stained  and  thrown  in  the 
dirt  by  him,  that  had  formerly  sometimes  come  to  meetings. 

The  Lord,  at  last,  did  bend  the  man's  heart,  that  he  said,  he 
had  thoughts  to  marry  her.  We  pressed  him  to  the  present 
doing  of  it,  that,  if  possible,  he  might  put  some  stop  to  the 
reproach  cast  on  the  gospel ;  and  he  consented.  We  con- 
sidered of  a  parson  to  do  it,  and  hearing  of  a  parish  priest  that 
did  use  to  marry  persons  privately,  brother  Terrill  would 
needs  ride  awav  presently  to  find  him  out,  and  so  did.      And 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  411 

the  Lord  favoured  [brother  Terrill]  by  his  providence,  that  he, 
parson  Davis,  was  at  home,  and  got  him  to  come  to  the  said 
William  Ship's  house,  promising  him  he  should  have  money  to 
fetch  a  licence  and  also  [be]  paid  for  his  pains.  So  he  came, 
and  by  persuasion  got  him  to  marry  them  presently,  in  the 
presence  of  the  said  brother  Terrill,  brother  GifFord,  and 
Richard  Ship,  the  man's  brother.  So  the  Lord  prosperously 
effected  the  matter,  blessing  the  endeavours  used  to  regain  the 
glory  they  had  lost.  The  like  evil,  through  grace,  had  not 
been  known  amongst  us  since  we  were  a  church,  near  this 
forty  years.  Therefore  was  cause  of  great  lamentation,  that 
Christ  should  be  so  wounded  afresh  by  us. 

Upon  the  fifth  day  of  8th  month,  being  the  next  Lord's 
day,  after  evening  sermon,  the  congregation  staying,  they 
ordered  that  two  brethren,  namely,  brother  Bodenham  and 
brother  Snead,  should  be  sent  to  brother  Jeremy  Courtney, 
that  stands  under  the  church's  admonition,  and  [to]  sister 
Watkins,  that  they  should  attend  the  congregation  at  their 
day  of  prayer,  next  third  day  of  the  week,  being  the  church's 
monthly  day. 

Upon  the  seventh  day  of  the  8th  month,  1679,  being  a  day 
of  prayer,  Jane  Daniell  was  added  a  member  of  this  congrega- 
tion, by  one  of  the  ruling  elders.  She  was  long  since  spoken 
with  and  accepted  by  the  church.  Her  conversation  being 
inquired  into,  she  was  now  received  solemnly,  and  in  the  name 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  this  church,  she  had  the  right 
[hand]  of  fellowship  given  her,  with  exhortations  to  mind  her 
duties,  first,  towards  God ;  secondly,  towards  every  member 
of  the  church,  to  watch  over  them,  and  to  reprove  them, 
according  to  the  rule  of  the  Lord,  Matt,  xviii.  18  ;  and, 
thirdly,  her  duty  to  the  world. 

Jeremy  Courtney  cast  out  7th  day  8th  mo.,  1679. 

The  church,  being  willing  to  set  members  in  order  against 
the  coming  of  our  new  pastor  from  London,  did  also,  upon 


412  THE    RECORDS 

this  same  day,  proceed  with  Jeremy  Courtney,  that  had  for  a 
long  time  been  under  admonition  of  the  church,  who  waited 
for  his  repentance,  and  reformation  of  that  his  sin  of  drunken- 
ness ;  but  not  finding  him  to  return  to  the  congregation  to  be 
restored  to  his  full  communion,  nor  reformation  of  his  evil,  the 
congregation  considering  of  it,  did  agree  together  to  cast  him 
out  of  the  church  :  having  sent  two  brethren,  the  Lord's  day 
before,  to  him  to  summon  him  to  attend  the  congregation  this 
day  of  prayer  ;  but  he  came  not.  The  reason  rendered  [was], 
he  had  been  lately  ill.  Yet,  notwithstanding,  the  congrega- 
tion proceeded  to  their  duty.  And  therefore,  one  of  the  ruling 
elders,  namely,  brother  Terrill,  by  consent  of  the  whole  con- 
gregation then  assembled,  did  pronounce  the  sentence  ;  viz., 
In  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  [by]  the  authority  he 
had  given  to  his  churches,  we  did  declare,  that  Jeremy 
Courtney,  for  his  sin  of  drunkenness,  of  which  he  stood  con- 
victed, and  several  times  thereof  admonished  by  the  church, 
but  not  reforming,  was  from  henceforth  to  be  no  longer  a 
member  of  this  congregation :  but  was  cast  out  into  the  world, 
and  no  longer  to  be  partaker  with  us  in  the  holy  mysteries  of 
the  Lord,  nor  fellowship  with  us,  nor  to  enjoy  the  privileges 
of  God's  house  ; — and  the  Lord  have  mercy  upon  his  soul. 

This  being  ended,  with  lamentation  and  sore  trouble  that 
we  were  forced,  for  the  preservation  of  the  glory  of  God  and 
the  church's  purity,  thus  to  proceed  to  our  duty,  as  the  last 
means  to  endeavour  his  recovery : — first,  the  said  brother 
Terrill  showed  his  crime,  and  the  evidence  that  it  was  true 
and  obvious.  Secondly,  that  this  crime  was  a  sin  that  who- 
soever should  live  and  die  in  it  without  repentance,  should  not 
inherit  the  kingdom  of  God;  as  1  Cor.  vi.  10.  Therefore, 
those  that  did  continue  in  such  sins,  should  not  be  continued 
in  the  church  :  for  what  Christ  will  judge  hereafter  his  people 
should  judge  here,  and  have  no  fellowship  with  such  works  of 
darkness. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  413 

Sister  TTatkins  withdrawn  from,  7th  day,  8th  month, 
1679. 

This  affliction  and  trouble  was  not  all;  but  the  church 
having  also  summoned  sister  Watkins,  for  tidings  came  to 
the  ears  of  the  church,  that  she  walked  disorderly  and  scan- 
dalously in  the  borrowing  of  money,  up  and  down,  of  many 
persons — of  some  ten  shillings,  of  some  twenty  shillings, 
of  some  more,  some  less,  as  she  could  get  them  to  lend — and 
took  no  care  to  pay  it  again,  promising  people  and  not  per- 
forming, spending  much  if  not  mo?t  of  her  time  going  up 
and  down :  and  so  did  not  work,  or  but  little,  to  endeavour 
honestly  to  live,  and  eat  her  own  bread.  And  thus,  she  walk- 
ing disorderly  and  scandalously  in  borrowing,  contrary  to 
the  rule,  2  Thess.  iii.  6,  10 — 12.  The  church,  after  her 
crime  was  declared,  and  proved  to  her  face  by  divers  in  the 
church,  and  what  they  had  heard  she  had  so  served  some  not 
of  the  congregation,  they  consented  all,  universally,  to  with- 
draw from  her.  Then  the  ruling  elder,  brother  Terrill, 
declared  to  her,  before  the  church,  how  that  for  her  so 
sinning  against  the  Lord,  she  rendered  herself  among  the 
wicked  ones,  as  Ps.  xxxvii.  2 1 9  :  and  therefore  the  church,  in 
faithfulness  to  the  Lord  and  to  her  soul,  must  withdraw  from 
her,  seeing  she  had  by  several  of  the  members  been  admon- 
ished once  and  again,  and  by  several  together  witnessing 
against  her  evil  in  so  doing  :  yet  she  had  lately  done  the  like, 
so  that  there  was  a  necessity  upon  them  to  do  their  duty. 
And  also  acquainted  her,  that  if  the  Lord  should  hereafter 
give  her  repentance  of  her  evil,  that  she  should  reform  to  the 
satisfaction  of  the  congregation,  they  should  be  willing  to 
receive  her  into  full  communion  again, 

And  then  the  sentence,  by  the  said  ruling  elder,  was 
passed  upon  her ;  viz.   That  in  the  name  of  our  Lord  Jesus 

9  ["The  wicked  bovroweth  and  payeth  not  again/1] 


414  THE    RECORDS 

Christ,  and  by  the  authority  he  had  given  to  his  church,  we 
did  declare,  that  sister  Watkins,  for  her  sin  of  disorderly 
walking,  borrowing  and  not  paying,  making  promises  and  not 
performing,  and  not  diligently  working,  was  withdrawn  from, 
and  no  longer  to  have  full  communion  with  this  church,  nor 
to  be  partaker  with  them  in  the  holy  mysteries  of  the  Lord's 
supper,  nor  privileges1  of  the  Lord's  house;  and  the  Lord 
have  mercy  upon  her  soul. 

Upon  the  same  7th  day,  8th  month,  1679,  being  a  day 
of  prayer,  these  persons  following  were  propounded  to  join 
with  the  church  : — Eleanor  Morgan  and  Elizabeth  England, 
propounded. 

Upon  the  21st  day  of  8th  month,  1679,  being  a  day  of 
prayer,  those  persons,  Elizabeth  England  and  Eleanor  Mor- 
gan, gave  a  declaration  of  the  work  of  God  on  their  souls, 
and  the  congregation  was  satisfied  therewith  to  receive 
them. 

Upon  22nd  day  of  8th  month,  sister  Tilly  departed  this 
life,  and  was  interred  at  Philip's  yard. 

Upon  23rd  day  of  the  8th  month,  1679,  our  new  pastor, 
brother  Fownes,  came  down  with  his  whole  family,  to  settle 
with  us,  from  London ;  whom  we  hope  the  Lord  in  mercy 
hath  sent  to  us,  and  that  God  will  fill  him  with  a  double 
portion  of  his  Spirit,  to  bring  many  souls  to  Christ,  and 
build  them  up  in  the  holy  faith. 

Upon  the  24th  day  of  the  8th  month,  1679,  those  persons 
following  were  baptized  in  the  river  Frome,  at  sister  Young's 
house,  by  brother  Jennings,  the  usual  administrator,  he  being 
a  minister  that  was  sent  forth  to  preach  above  twenty  years 
since,  by  a  church  in  Gloucester  walking  with  one  Mr. 
Forbes.  And,  therefore,  we  understand  that  whoever  is 
made  and  ordained  a  minister,  to  preach  the  gospel  of  our 

1  No  privileges;  viz.  If  she  doth  to  stay  when  any  business  of  the  church 
come  to  the  meeting,  not  to  be  suffered       [is]  transacted.    [Note  by  Mr.  Terrill.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  415 

Lord  Jesus  Christ,  being  set  apart  to  that  work  of  the  min- 
istry— although  he  be  not  chosen  a  pastor  to  any  particular 
people,  -yet  he  hath  power  to  baptize  those  that  profess 
repentance,  and  faith  in  Jesus  Christ.  Yet  we  do  not  under- 
stand nor  hold  that  every  gifted  brother  in  a  church  hath 
power  to  baptize,  until  he  be  set  apart  to  the  work  of  the 
ministry,  as  Barnabas  and  Saul  were,  Acts  xiii.  2. 

Every  gifted  brother,  it  is  his  duty  to  minister  or  exercise 
his  gift  in  the  church  whereof  he  is  a  member,  1  Cor.  xiv.  29 
— 31;  1  Pet.  iv.  10,  and  1  Thess.  v.  11  ;  but  not  his  duty 
to  preach  to  the  world,  nor  to  go  forth  to  preach  before  he 
hath  a  call  to  the  work,  nor  hath  not  power  to  baptize, 
although  he  hath  a  gift  to  preach,  until  he  be  sent  forth  to 
preach  the  word.  Then  he  hath,  by  virtue  of  that  mission, 
power  to  baptize  also  ;  for  so  we  see  Philip,  though  but  a  dea- 
con, when  sent  to  preach  had  power  to  baptize,  Acts  viii.  26, 
35,  38.  And  so  is  the  Lord's  commission,  Go  teach  all 
nations,  baptizing  them,  Matt,  xxviii.  19.  And  therefore  we 
having  such  a  brother  amongst  us,  that  walked  with  us,  that 
was  formerly  sent  forth  by  a  church  to  preach,  and  did  go  up 
and  down  preaching  in  the  country  about,  from  place  to  place, 
although  we  did  not  think  him  fit  to  choose  him  to  be  our 
pastor,  and  so  could  not  break  bread  to  us  unless  we  had 
chosen  him  to  be  our  pastor;  yet  we  made  use  of  him  to 
preach  amongst  us  some  time,  and  always  to  baptize.  During 
the  time  of  our  brother  Hardcastle,  he  did  baptize  all  that 
were  desirous  of  that  ordinance,  and  so  he  did  baptize  these, 
viz.  Elizabeth  England  and  Eleanor  Morgan,  baptized. 

Upon  the  5th  day  of  9th  month,  1679,  being  our  monthly 
day  of  prayer  at  our  public  place  in  Broadmead,  John 
Shuter,  husband  to  our  sister  Shuter  the  younger,  who  above 
a  year  since,  upon  his  then  desire,  was  proposed  to  join  with 
the  church,  but  for  some  reason  was  delayed :  but  he  now 
again    earnestly   pressing   for   communion,    and    now   being 


416  THE    RECORDS 

settled  in  his  understanding  about  baptism  and  order,  was 
admitted  this  evening  to  declare  the  work  of  God  upon  his 
soul,  before  the  whole  church,  after  the  sermon  in  the  public 
meeting-house.  He  declaring  his  conversion,  repentance  from 
sin,  and  faith  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  church  received 
satisfaction  to  receive  him. 

Upon  the  7th  day  of  9th  month,  1679,  the  said  John 
Shuter  was  baptized,  or  dipped  in  the  river  Frome. 

Upon  the  9th  day  of  the  9th  month,  1679,  being  the  first 
Lord's  day  that  brother  Fownes  brake  bread  to  us,  viz.  ad- 
ministered the  holy  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper  to  this 
church ;  and  then  these  persons  following  were  admitted  mem- 
bers of  this  church,  by  him,  in  our  public  meeting-house,  in 
Broadmead : — (that  is  to  say)  brother  John  Shuter,  sister  Eliza- 
beth England,  sister  Eleanor  Morgan,  added  to  this  church. 

Memorandum. — To  the  praise  of  the  Lord  be  it  recorded, 
that,  in  the  vacant  time  that  we  had  no  pastor,  it  pleased  the 
Lord  to  add  nineteen  members  to  this  church,  and  tried  us  by 
casting  out  three  members,  from  the  time  brother  Hardcastle 
deceased,  till  brother  Fownes  settled  to  us,  near  fourteen 
months'  space. 

The  State  of  this  Congregation  the  9th  day  of  this  9th 
month,  1679.  Or,  the  names  of  the  Members  of  this  Con- 
gregation, in  being  when  brother  Fownes,  whom  they  chose 
for  their  pastor,  came  down  to  settle  with  us ;  showing  who  and 
how  many  there  were  baptized  after  believing.  In  all  the 
numbers  were  one  hundred  sixty-six,  that  were  in  being  the  first 
time  he  brake  bread  unto  us,  which  was  the  9th  day  of  the  9th 
month,  1679 ;  committed  unto  his  care  and  charge  under  Jesus 
Christ  our  Head,  King,  Priest,  and  Prophet ;  on  whom  we 
live,  depend,  and  trust  alone  from  his  word,  by  his  Holy  Spirit, 
for  increase  of  all  grace,  and  growth  in  numbers ;  to  have 
supplies  and  fresh  anointings,  at  all  times,  from  him,  our  High 
Priest  that   ever  lives   and  never  changes,  although  he  takes 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST. 


417 


away  and  gives  us  new  pipes  of  conveyance.  But  our  king 
Jesus  is  the  same  yesterday,  to-day,  and  for  ever.  To  whom 
be  glory,  world  without  end.     Amen. 


BRETHREN. 


Fownes,  pastor,  baptized. 

Ellis,  ruling  elder. 

Terrill,  ruling  elder,  baptized. 

Jennings,  baptized. 

Forde,  deacon,  baptized. 

Dickason,  deacon,  baptized. 

G william,  baptized. 

Ekeley. 

Robert  Cornish,  baptized. 

Bodenham,  baptized. 

Willis,  baptized. 

Fieldust,  baptized. 

Bland,  baptized. 

Rivers,  baptized. 

Hall,  baptized. 

John  Cornish,  baptized. 

Messenger,  baptized. 

Warren,  baptized. 

Child,  baptized. 

Robert  Lewis,  baptized. 

Bryan,  baptized. 

Amy,  baptized. 


Robertson,  baptized. 
Thomas  Jones,  baptized, 
James  Lewis,  baptized. 
Snead,  baptized. 
Towne,  baptized. 
Fry,  baptized. 
Dennis,  baptized. 
Purnell,  baptized. 
Davis,  baptized. 
Hill. 

Hunt,  senior,  baptized. 
Whitehead,  baptized. 
Clarke,  baptized. 
Kemp,  baptized. 
Morgan,  baptized. 
Evans,  baptized. 
King. 
Tyler. 

White,  baptized. 
Gregory,  baptized. 
Shuter,  baptized. 

Forty-two.* 


SISTERS. 


Brookes,  baptized. 

Gwilliam. 

Williamson,  [since]  deceased. 

Cornish,  baptized. 

Ekeley,  baptized. 

Walton,  deaconess,  baptized. 

Allen,  baptized. 

Ellis,  junior. 

Hughes,  of  Horfield,  baptized. 

Combe,  baptized. 

Field,  baptized. 

Hall,  baptized. 


Hickman,  baptized. 

Mainard. 

Pope,  baptized. 

Edwards. 

Messenger,  senior,  baptized. 

Messenger,  junior,  baptized. 

Bowles,  baptized. 

Stephens,  baptized. 

Turtle. 

Eleanor  Morgan,  baptized. 

Phelps. 

Dennis,  baptized. 


[If  the  pastor,  Mr.  Fownes,  be  reckoned,  the  number  of  names  is  forty-three.] 


E  E 


418 


THE    RECORDS 


SISTERS — continued. 


Rose,  baptized. 

Whittington,  baptized. 

Pockeridge,  baptized. 

Hill,  baptized. 

Fran.  Hill,  baptized. 

Smith,  deaconess,  baptized. 

Clarke,  baptized. 

Jourdan,  baptized. 

Sterry,  baptized. 

Ellis,  senior,  baptized. 

Griffen. 

Davis,  baptized. 

Jones,  senior. 

Jones,  junior,  baptized. 

Bland. 

Lux. 

Atkins,  baptized. 

Parsons,  Clifton,  baptized. 

Hill,  Key,  baptized. 

Daniell. 

Webb. 

Moseley. 

Knight. 

Gough. 

Morgan,  Back,  baptized. 

Williams,  Thorn :  baptized. 

Mary  Phillips,  baptized. 

Dawson. 

Papewell,  baptized. 

Skinker,  baptized. 

Joyce  Kineton. 

James,  baptized. 

Shuter,  senior. 

Shuter,  junior,  baptized. 

Codner,  baptized. 

Orchard,  baptized. 

White. 

Tyler. 

Munday,  baptized. 

Morgan,  Temple,  baptized. 

Forde,  baptized. 

Lydia  Waters,  baptized. 


Davos. 

Shute,  baptized. 

Snead,  baptized. 

Rachel  Clarke,  baptized. 

Ewins,  baptized. 

Shaells,  baptized . 

Prior,  baptized. 

Evans,  Castle,  baptized. 

Lingwood,  baptized. 

Boyer,  baptized. 

Betterton. 

Rowley,  baptized. 

Lewis,  baptized. 

Hughes,  baptized. 

Ridley,  baptized. 

Smith,  Philips,  baptized. 

Jennings,  baptized. 

Poulden,  baptized. 

Young,  senior,  baptized. 

Mary  Young,  baptized. 

Morgan,  baptized. 

Anne  Vaughan,  baptized. 

Jervis,  baptized. 

Goodman,  baptized. 

Webb,  junior,  baptized. 

Dickason,  baptized. 

Williams,  baptized. 

Whitehead,  baptized. 

Kimbar,  baptized. 

Dap  well,  baptized. 

Saunders,  baptized. 

Spurgin. 

Evans,  senior,  baptized. 

Mary  Evans,  baptized. 

Rawlins,  baptized. 

White,  widow,  baptized. 

Shipp,  baptized. 

Trigg,  baptized. 

Sarah  Lewellin,  baptized. 

Margaret  Williams,  baptized. 

Elizabeth  England,  baptized. 

Loyd,  baptized. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  419 


MEMBERS    REMOVED    BY   HABITATION. 

Brother  Pritchard,  Bath  Easton,  bap.  SisterParlin,hada]etter,Waterford,bap. 

Brother  Teather,  Hollow,  Trow,  bap.  Sister  Clarke,  London,  bap. 

Sister  Marsh,  by  Abergavenny,  bap.  Sister  Hazeley,  London,  bap. 

Sister  Oviatt,  at  Southampton,  bap.  Sister  Collins,  Sherston. 

Sister  Barnes,  by  Magor.  Sister  Simms,  Axbridge,  bap. 


MEMBERS   UNDER   DEALING. 

Anne  and  Mary  Virgin,  Cork,  bap.  Brother  Lingwood,  of  Bristol,  since  re- 
Brother  Robert  Jones,  at   New   Eng-  ceived  in  again  and  baptized. 

land.  Sister  Adams,  at  Nevis,  bap. 
Brother  Henry  Forde,  London. 


TOTALS. 

[Brethren] 42 

[Sisters]        .         .         ,         .         .         .         .108 

[Members  removed] 10 

[Under  discipline] 6 

[Total] 166 

The  total  was  one  hundred  and  sixty-six  members  then 
living — whom,  O  Lord,  increase  in  number  and  grace! — 
whereof  just  one  hundred  and  fifty,  and  with  our  pastor, 
brother  Fownes,  one  hundred  and  fifty-one,  were  in  actual, 
present,  and  common  communion,  living  in  and  about  this 
city  of  Bristol ;  other  ten  members  removed  by  distance  of 
habitation  as  above;  and  six  under  dealing  by  the  church, 
and  most  of  them  at  distance  by  habitation ;  besides  the  four 
more  that  were  lately  cast  out  of  the  church,  viz.  Thomas 
Jacob,  Jeremy  Courtney,  Mary  Smith  alias  Ship,  and  the 
widow  Watkins. 

Sister  Williamson  departed  the  9th  day  of  10th  month, 
1679  ;  interred  in  James's  yard  3 

s  [At  this  point  the  Records  of  the       of    Mr.  Terrill  ;    the  next  four  pages, 
church  cease  to  be  in  the  hand-writing       with  three  others  at  the  close,  being  by 

E    E   2 


420  the  records 

Anno   1680. 

now  beginneth  oub  ninth  persecution. 

The  4th  day  of  the  fifth  mouth,  being  the  Lord's  day, 
there  catae  in  two  informers  into  our  meeting-place  in  Broad- 
mead,  in  the  morning,  presently  after  the  text  was  named, 
and  stayed  there  until  the  meeting  was  ended.  Our  pastor, 
brother  Fownes,  was  preaching  from  Job  xix,  25,  i"  know  my 
Redeemer  liveth  ;  and  the  informers  were  George  Hellier,  John 
Hellier's  brother-in-law,  and  one  Bennett,  the  bishop's  appari- 
tor. This  George  Hellier,  the  6th  day  of  the  6th  month,  was 
brought  before  the  mayor  for  several  misdemeanours,  being 
taken  up  by  the  watch  of  the  city,  by  whom  he  was  for  that 
night  put  into  Bridewell,  for  being  drunk,  and  speaking  con- 
temptuously of  the  mayor,  bidding  him  kiss ,  and  for 

swearing  and  abusing  the  watch  ;  for  which,  together  with  his 
ill-behaviour  when  before  the  mayor,  he  was  bound  over  to  the 
next  quarter  sessions,  and  to  the  good  behaviour — which 
such  men  have  always  been  strangers  to.  Howbeit  as  a  wild 
beast  is  the  more  enraged  by  being  chained,  so  he  that  same 
day,  being  Tuesday,  goes  to  Mr.  Weeks's  meeting-place  (Mr. 
Young  then  preaching),  being  drunk,  with  two  other  in- 
formers, viz.  Lewis  Harris  and  Aaron  Watts,  and  making  a 
noise,  commands  the  minister  to  come  down,  who,  having 
near  ended,  goes  down  a  private  way,  and  avoided  them. 

The  8th  day  of  the  fifth  month,  1680,  the  said  George 
Hellier,  with  the  bishop's  apparitor,  and  Lewis  Harris,  with 
Andrew  Ball  and  George  Wilkins,  two  of  the  sheriff's 
Serjeants,  comes  up  into  the  meeting  again,  being  our  lecture 

an  unknown  person,  but  drawn  from  a  in  order,  subsequently,  more  at  large  to 
waste-book,  in  which  Mr.  Terrill  appears  continue  his  narration.  This  waste-book 
to  have  entered  the  events  as  they  arose,       is  lost.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  421 

sermon,  whilst  brother  Fownes  was  in  his  first  prayer.  The 
informers  were  very  rude,  and  would  hardly  suffer  him  to 
conclude  his  prayer — having  a  warrant  signed  by  two  jus- 
tices, viz.  Sir  Robert  Cann,  and  Alderman  Ollive,  to  break  up 
the  meeting, — willing  our  minister  to  come  with  them  before 
the  said  aldermen  ;  they  showed  their  warrant,  which  brother 
Fownes  reading  to  himself,  replied,  his  name  was  not  in  the 
warrant  to  bring  him  before  them  ;  but  the  Serjeants  clamor- 
ously and  violently  pressing  in  the  midst  of  the  meeting, 
saying,  that  they  had  orders  to  bring  him  with  them,  and 
Ball  taking  hold  of  brother  Fownes,  who  said  unto  him,  If 
you  will  sit  down,  and  let  me  alone  until  I  have  done,  I  will 
go  along  with  you :-— thus  conditionally  he  promised  to  go 
with  them  ;  but  they  would  not  accept  thereof,  nor  stay,  but 
would  have  him  go  presently. 

Then  Mr.  John  Grant,  a  mercer  on  the  bridge,  being  then 
at  the  meeting,  comes  to  the  Serjeants  and  prevails  with  them 
to  go  down  the  stairs  a  little  while.  Now  George  Hellier, 
the  informer,  hasted  away  to  fetch  an  express  warrant  for  the 
minister.  In  the  meantime,  we  persuaded  brother  Fownes 
to  go  home,  down  the  other  stairs:  for  we  knew  if  Alderman 
Ollive  could  get  the  minister  before  him,  he  would  send  him 
to  prison  by  the  Five  Mile  Act,  for  preaching  the  Lord's  day 
before ;  but  the  people  assembled  stayed  in  the  place,  intend- 
ing to  stay  out  our  time,  though  we  were  thus  obstructed. 
Then  brother  Terrill  spake  to  the  people,  to  sing  part  of  the 
forty-sixth  Psalm,  and  read  it  to  them.  And  as  we  were 
singing,  George  Hellier  comes  in,  having  got  a  warrant 
signed  by  Alderman  Ollive,  expressly  to  bring  the  body  of 
George  Fownes  before  him,  and  brings  with  him  a  constable 
of  the  city,  that  he  had  picked  up  by  the  way,  to  execute  the 
warrant.  But  the  minister  being  gone,  George  Hellier  was 
in  a  rage,  and  would  have  the  constable  lay  hold  on  some- 
body.    He  asked  him,  Who  ?     He  answered,  He  that  holds 


422  THE    RECORDS 

forth.  But  the  constable  not  being  willing,  for  we  were  all 
singing,  at  last,  seeing  himself  disappointed  of  his  prey, 
departed  in  a  rage,  and  thus  our  pastor  escaped.  Praise  be 
to  the  Lord. 

Upon  the  11th  day  of  the  5th  month,  being  Lord's  day, 
those  informers,  viz.  George  Hellier,  Bennett,  the  apparitor, 
and  Lewis  Harris  (that  was  a  base  child,  a  vile  fellow,  an 
informer),  they  having  first  been  with  the  mayor,  Joseph 
Creswick,  Esq.,  and  gave  their  information  of  a  meeting 
being  assembled,  require  of  him  aid,  and  his  order  to  suppress 
our  meeting :  upon  this,  according  to  the  act  made  against 
conventicles,  anno  1670,  he  could  do  no  less  but  send  two 
Serjeants,  viz.  Thos.  Chatton  and  Aaron  Watts ;  who  coming 
up  into  our  meeting, — after  they  had  been  at  the  Castle 
meeting,  and  at  Mr.  Gifford's  meeting — and  being  come, 
Hellier  said,  "  Here's  Mr.  Fownes  again  ! "  For  he  was  then 
preaching,  it  being  our  morning  meeting.  And  Thomas 
Chatton  aforesaid,  by  order  of  the  mayor,  in  the  king's 
name,  he  commanded  us  to  depart.  And  thus  they  clamor- 
ously talked  several  times  ;  but  our  pastor  went  on  preaching 
on  this  subject,  2  Pet.  i.  10,  Give  all  diligence  to  make  your 
calling  and  election  sure,  and  answered  them  not.  At  last 
they  stood  still,  and  hearkened  a  good  while,  but  the  said 
George  Hellier  and  the  apparitor  went  up  and  down  the 
meeting,  writing  down  the  names  of  such  as  they  knew,  that 
they  might  be  convicted  and  fined  according  to  the  afore- 
said statute: — brother  Terrill  being  convicted  for  the  last 
meeting,  and  fined  £10  1 5s. :  but  praise  be  to  the  Lord,  he 
suffered  no  such  loss  as  yet.  Thos.  Chatton  commands  us 
again  to  depart,  and  makes  proclamation,  crying,  O  yes ! 
three  times ;  and  in  the  king's  name,  by  order  of  the  mayor, 
commands  us  to  depart.  But  our  minister  kept  on  preaching, 
and  the  people  moved  not,  and  the  informers  went  away  to 
Mr.  Weeks'a  meeting. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  423 

In  the  afternoon  we  were  quiet ;  praise  be  to  the  Lord. 
But  the  said  informers  were  at  the  Castle  meeting  ail  the 
afternoon :  for  the  doors  being  shut,  they  could  not  enter. 

Upon  the  17th  of  July,  1680,  a  certain  man,  who  was  a 
stranger,  was  taken  up  near  the  Tolzey,  said  to  be  much  like 
brother  Fownes,  and  by  Kemp  the  serjeant,  and  Lewis 
Harris  the  informer,  taken  up  for  brother  Fownes,  and 
brought  before  Alderman  Ollive  ;  but  finding  themselves  mis- 
taken, sent  the  man  away.  Thus  the  Lord  showed  us  their 
design,  and  preserved  our  minister. 

The  18th  and  25th  days  of  July,  being  the  two  Lord's 
days  following,  we  were  in  peace.  Only  the  Castle  meeting 
was  haunted  by  the  aforesaid  informers,  having  Alderman 
Lawford  for  their  assistant ;  but  could  not  get  in,  the  doors 
being  shut. 

Upon  the  27th  day,  the  aforesaid  informers  having  notice 
of  Mr.  Weeks's  meeting,  on  James's  Back,  when  the  people 
were  coming  together,  and  prevented  their  waiting  upon  the 
Lord  for  that  time. 

Upon  the  first  day  of  the  sixth  month,  the  said  informers 
come  to  Mr.  Wey's  meeting  in  the  Castle,  and  Sir  Robert 
Yeoman  s  and  many  more,  broke  open  the  doors — but  they 
conveyed  away  their  minister  before  the  informers  came  in — 
and  by  proclamation  commanded  the  people  to  depart,  and 
sent  Mr.  William  Wade,  and  Nathanael  his  brother,  to  New- 
gate, and  beat  another  until  all  bloody. 

Upon  the  first  day  of  the  6th  month,  being  Lord's  day, 
one  Allien,  bookseller,  and  two  more  with  him,  some  of  the 
new  raised  artillery,  came  up  into  our  [meeting],  and  wrote  a 
list  of  the  names  of  some  persons  present. 

Upon  third  day  of  this  month,  two  questions  were 
proposed  to  the  congregation  by  our  pastor,  brother 
Fownes. 

Question  first.     Seeing  great  troubles  were  like  to  come, 


424  THE    RECORDS 

what  course  we  should  take  upon  the  Lord's  days,  when  our 
enemies  came  in  to  disturb  us  ? 

Answer  first.  If  the  informers,  with  Serjeants  or  con- 
stables, come  in,  that  our  minister  keep  on  preaching,  and  the 
people  sit  still ;  generally  concluded  on  by  the  church.  But, 
secondly,  in  case,  with  the  informers,  there  come  the  magis- 
trates, or  a  justice  of  peace,  and  make  proclamation,  and  in 
the  king's  name  command  us  to  depart,  then  it  was  concluded 
by  the  major  part  of  the  congregation  then  present,  that  the 
minister  should  desist  and  come  down.  See  the  reasons  here- 
of in  the  waste-book. 

Second  question.  If  proclamation  be  made  by  a  magistrate, 
&c,  as  aforesaid,  and  the  people  commanded  to  depart,  whether 
they  ought  presently  to  depart  or  not,  before  they  laid  hands 
on  some  of  them,  and  forced  them  out  ? 

Answered  unanimously,  and  concluded  not  to  go  presently 
out  as  soon  as  commanded.  But,  second,  if  they  did  begin 
to  use  violence,  and  force  some,  we  concluded  they  would 
others  also;  and  therefore,  we  concluded,  when  they  did 
begin  to  haul  and  pull  persons  violently,  that  then  all  should 
depart  for  the  present,  and  return  again  the  next  opportunity 
at  due  season. 

Upon  the  fifth  day  of  sixth  month,  about  twenty  brethren 
met  at  our  pastor's  to  consider  who  should,  on  all  occasions, 
meet  with  some  brethren  of  other  churches  to  advise  what  to 
do,  and  to  consider  about  the  charge,  and  to  bring  in  the 
money,  if  any  need  happen  at  any  time  ;  as  lately  there  was 
of  £30,  to  keep  the  keeper  of  Newgate  prison  in  his  place, 
whereof  we  were  to  bear  £3  10s. 

The  brethren  named  to  take  this  care  were, 
Brother  Ellis,  Brother  Snead, 

Brother  Terrill,  Brother  King, 

Brother  Bod[enham],  Brother  Gwil[liam], 

Brother  Hunt,  Brother  Ree[ves.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  425 

Upon  the  13th  of  the  sixth  month,  1680,  in  the  morning, 
sister  Jennings,  the  wife  of  our  brother  Jennings,  departed 
this  life,  and  was  interred  at  Philip's,  in  the  evening.  She 
was  a  good  Woman,  of  great  experience,  faith,  and  holiness 
from  her  youth ;  lived  much  in  the  house  of  God,  and  before 
she  died,  was  exercised  with  long  sickness.  She  bare  all 
with  great  patience,  and  would  say  to  some  she  was  full  of 
the  love  of  God  in  her  soul,  and  sensible  to  her ;  bidding  all 
to  prize  precious  time. 

On  the  24th  of  this  month,  sister  Rowley  departed  this  life, 
and  was  interred  at  Philip's.  She  was  a  gracious  young  widow, 
that  it  may  be  said  of  her,  she  feared  the  Lord  above  many. 

Upon  the  seventh  day  of  the  seventh  month,  the  church 
agreed  and  concluded  to  change  our  monthly  day  of  prayer 
from  the  first  third  day  of  the  week  that  happens  in  any 
month,  to  the  second  third  day  of  the  week  that  shall  be  in 
every  month.      Vide  the  reasons  hereof  in  the  waste-book. 

Upon  the  twelfth  day  of  the  eighth  month,  1680,  being 
our  monthly  day  of  prayer, — the  church  on  the  last  day  of 
prayer  took  into  consideration  the  want  of  a  deacon,  because 
brother  Forde  had  removed  his  habitation  five  miles  off,  and 
then  gave  notice  to  the  members  they  would  choose  two 
more  deacons  this  day, — which  being  come,  the  pastor  laying 
open  the  qualifications  and  duty  of  deacons,  spoke  to  the 
conoreo-ation  to  choose  out  two  from  amongst  them  for  that 
work :  and  so  he  withdrew  for  a  little  space.  And  then  the 
elders  nominated  six  brethren,  that  the  congregation  should 
choose  two  of  those  six,  or  who  else  they  pleased.  When 
those  six  were  assented  to,  for  to  be  put  in  the  election,  they 
were  desired  to  withdraw.  And  then  their  names  were 
written  down  in  a  paper,  and  a  straight  line  drawn  from  each 
name,  and  every  brother  took  the  pen,  and  with  it  gave  a 
stroke  upon  two  of  those  six  lines,  against  those  names  he 
would  have  to  stand  in   this   office.       This   course  we  took 


426  THE    RECORDS 

that  every  one  might  be  free,  silently,  to  prick  who  he  was 
for,  to  avoid  all  prejudice  that  might  otherwise  happen.  So 
brother  Bodenham  and  brother  Snead  were  chosen  by 
majority  of  voices.  Brother  Bodenham  had  about  twenty 
voices,  or  strokes ;  brother  Snead  about  sixteen.  None  of 
the  rest  had  ten  ;  some  none. 

This  was  done  in  the  close  of  the  day  of  prayer.  The 
next  monthly  day  it  is  intended  solemnly  to  set  them  apart, 
by  fasting  and  prayer,  to  their  work  and  office  of  deacons. 
Oh,  that  our  Father  in  Christ  would  grant  them  his  gracious 
Spirit  and  presence  in  the  work ! 

The  persons  besides  those  two  in  the  election,  were  brother 
King  nine  strokes,  brother  Fry  four,  brother  Hunt  none, 
brother  Hill  none. 

Sister  Spurgin,  being  a  widow  about  sixty  years  old, 
departed  this  life  this  23rd  of  the  eighth  month,  1680,  and 
was  interred  at  RedclifFe,  by  her  husband. 

Upon  the  31st  day  of  the  eighth  month,  the  church  being 
apprehensive  of  the  great  designs  and  endeavours  of  men  to 
undermine  the  interest  of  our  Lord  Jesus  in  these  nations,4 
and  the  many  dangers  and  judgments  that  were  impending, 
&c,  did  agree  together  to  spend  two  or  three  hours  every 
week  in  prayer,  as  many  as  could  assemble  together,  from 
five  o'clock  till  eight,  each  third  day  evening,  changing  the 
meeting  of  conference,  that  used  to  be  the  second  day 
evening,  into  this  of  prayer.  See  more  of  their  reasons  in 
the   waste-book.3       No  brother  to  exceed  half   an  hour  in 

4  [Great  fears  were  at  this  time  pre-  exclusion  bill,  which  passed  the  Com- 

valent  of  the  succession  of  the  Duke  of  mons,  was,  however,  thrown  out  by  the 

York  to  the  throne,  and  the  re-establish-  Lords.—  llapin,  ii.  7 1 6.] 

ment  of  popery  under  his  auspices.    In  5  [Mr.  Bernard  Fosket,  chosen  pas- 

the  parliament  which  assembled  on  the  tor  of  Broadmead  in  the  year  17-0,  here 

21st  of  this  month,  five  days  after  the  commences  to  extract  from  the  waste- 

epening,  Lord    Russell  moved,  "  That  book  mentioned  above,   continuing  the 

they  might,  in  the  first  place,  take  into  narrative  of  the  church's  persecution  in 

consideration  how  to  suppress  popery,  an  abridged  form.] 
and  j  ire  vent  a  popish   successor."     The 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST,  427 

prayer;  and  if  any  did  exercise  his  gift  in  speaking,  not  to 
exceed  half  an  hour.  And  so  the  first  of  November  we 
began,  and  in  three  hours  six  brethren  prayed,  and  one  spake. 

On  the  ninth  November  brother  .Robert  Bodenham  and 
brother  Nathanael  Snead,  were  set  apart,  by  fasting  and 
prayer,  for  the  office  of  deacons,  which  they  were  before 
chosen  to ;  hands  were  not  laid  on  them  because  the  pastor 
somewhat  scrupled  it,  though  it  was  the  judgment  of  the 
church  to  use  that  ceremony  for  admission  and  confirmation. 
The  waste-book  quotes  several  scriptures,  and  Hooker's 
Survey,6  for  this  practice.  The  pastor  showed  them  their 
work,  and  showed  that  the  money  collected  should  not  only 
be  for  the  poor,  but  for  any  other  use  for  the  good  of  the 
congregation,  which  had  been  the  judgment  of  this  church 
for  thirty  years,  as  brother  Terrill,  one  of  the  elders,  de- 
clared ;  but  they  must  not  lay  it  out  without  the  consent  of 
the  church,  at  least  the  elders. 

On  the  14th  January,  1680-1,  Eliza  Dayos, Knight, 

and  Avis  Bodenham,  were  baptized  by  brother  Thomas 
Jennings,  Mr.  Fownes  the  pastor  being  not  well. 

On  February  8th,  1680-1,  being  our  monthly  day  of 
prayer,  Mr.  Thomas  Whinnell  was  again  proposed  to  be  a 
member  in  this  church,  he  being  a  member  at  Christchurch, 
in  Dorsetshire,  some  years  ago,  and  by  them  recommended  to 
a  free-will  people  in  this  city,  walking  with  Captain  Kitchen,7 
but  since  broken  and  scattered.  The  church  was  not  willing 
to  admit  him,  fearing  he  might  hold  Arminian  errors  ;  but 
the  pastor  and  elders,  having  discoursed  [with]  him  several 
times,  thought  he  was  clear  in  the  doctrine  of  free  grace. 
But  the  church  at  Christchurch  would  not  send  him  a  letter, 
therefore  this  church  wrote  to  know  if  they  had  anything  to 
charge  him  with  as  to  morals. 

";  [A  Survey  of  the  Sum  of  Church       late  pastor  of  the  church  at  Hartford, 
Discipline,   &c,    by    Thomas   Hooker,       Conn.     4to,  Lond.  1(548.] 
7  [See  before,  p.  213.] 


428  THE    RECORDS 

On   the    sixth  of    March,    1680-1,    sister    Alice  Bowie j, 

widow,    departed,    being  -sixty-six   years    of    age,  and    was 
buried  in  James's  Yard. 


Anno   1681. 

On  the  tenth  of  May,  1681,  sister  Ship,  wife  of  Richard 
Ship,  returned  to  the  communion  of  this  church,  after  long 
absence. 

On  27th  of  May,  1681,  sister  Eliza  Sparling  died,  in 
Ireland,  and  was  buried  there. 

On  the  14th  of  June,  1681,  sister  Skinker  died,  and  was 
buried  in  Austin's  church. 

On  the  twelfth  of  July,  1681,  sister  Hollister  and  Ann 
Martin  gave  in  their  experience,  and  on  the  15th  following, 
sister  Griffin,  the  doctor's  wife,  and  Ann  Martin,  were  bap- 
tized by  brother  Fownes.  On  the  17th  day,  sister  Hollister 
was  also  added  to  the  church ;  and  on  the  same  day,  sister 
Gwilliam  died,  and  was  interred  in  James's  Yard,  by  her 
children. 

On  the  28th  of  August,  1681,  John  Hellier,  Chapman, 
Lugg,  with  a  constable,  and  Hellier's  son,  went  to  Mr. 
Gifford's  meeting-house,  found  brother  William  Harford 
preaching.8  Hellier  pulled  him  out  of  the  pulpit,  and  carried 
him  away  to  Newgate,  without  any  warrant,  or  bringing  him 
before  a  justice,  and  there  detained  him  till  the  next  morn- 
ing, when  they  had  him  before  the  mayor,  Sir  Richard 
Harte,  there  being  also  [present]  Aldermen  Ollive,  Hicks, 
Lawford,  Cramp,  and  Mr.  Cranfield,  on  the  bench.     Hellier 

8  [Mr.  Harford  was  "ordained  to  the  "  once  a  ivoithy  minister  in  the  congre- 

nfrice  and  service  of  elder  and  minister,  gation  whereof  brother  Giftbrd  is  pastor; 

according  to  the  glorious  gospel  of  the  and  interred  in  the  same  grave  where 

over  blessed  God,  the  13th  of  the  third  brother  llynam  was  interred.*"— Fuller's 

month,  K;no."     In  the  list  of  burials  Dissent  in  Bristol,  p.  229.] 
in   Red  cross  Street,  he  is  described  as 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  429 

and  two  more  swore  they  found  him  preaching  in  a  con- 
venticle ;  the  mayor  tenders  him  the  oath  in  the  Corporation 
Act,  which  he  refused  to  take.  Whereupon  they  would  have 
committed  him  to  prison  for  six  months,  but  Mr.  Nathanael 
Wade  and  counsellor  Freek  pleaded,  that  they  not  proving 
him  to  have  been  in  holy  orders  formerly,  nor  lecturer,  nor 
stipendiary,  but  only  preaching,  could  at  present  only  con- 
vict him  for  preaching,  and  could  not  send  him  to  prison  on 
the  said  act,  until  after  this  they  found  him  in  the  corpora- 
tion. Whereupon,  though  they  said  they  might,  they  did 
not  send  him  to  prison,  but  fined  him  £20,  to  be  levied  by 
distress  on  his  goods,  and  so  let  him  go.  Mrs.  Clark  followed 
brother  Harford  to  the  entry  of  the  prison,  and  Hellier  in 
his  great  rage  first  pushed  her  down,  and  then  put  her  also  in 
prison  till  next  morning,  and  then  brought  her  before  the 
mayor,  and  would  have  her  find  sureties  for  her  good 
behaviour.     Thus  they  acted  contrary  to  all  law. 

On  the  13th  day  of  September,  1681,  sister  Sylvester,  a 
member  of  Mr.  Xobbs's^  church,  at  Sodbury,  was  admitted 
to  communion  with  us.  On  the  same  day,  brother  Richard 
King,  aged  sixty-eight  years,  having  been  lately  sick,  gave 
us  some  trouble  by  marrying  his  maid,  wrho  had  lived  with 
him  seven  years.  He  kept  it  private.  The  day  before, 
however,  one  of  his  sons  knew  of  it,  and  he  and  the  rest 
stormed  much  at  it,  and  acquainted  one  of  the  elders  and  the 
pastor  with  it,  who  went  the  next  morning  and  dissuaded 
him  from  it,  urging  Phil.  iv.  8,  and  Col.  iii.  21.  In  the 
evening  of  the  same  day,  the  two  elders  went  to  him,  and 
asked  him,  Whether  he  had  promised  her?  He  said,  he 
had;  but  asked  their  advice.  They  put  him  in  mind  of 
Prov.  xx.  25  ;  but  proposed  that,  for  the  peace  of  his  family, 

9  [Mr.  Nobbs's  name  also  appears  churches  in  Somersetshire  and  the  adja- 
appended  to  the  Confession  of  Faith,  cent  counties,  as  minister  at  Sodbury. — 
published  in  the  year  1656,  by  several       Ivimey,  ii.  522.] 


430  THE    RECORDS 

he  would  endeavour  to  gain  her  consent  to  live  as  they  were, 
and  he  should  give  her  assurance,  in  writing,  to  leave  her 
something  at  his  decease,  to  make  her  life  the  more  com- 
fortable. And  they  mentioned  an  example  of  a  good  man 
that  had  done  so,  in  the  like  case,  twenty  years  since.  How- 
ever, they  desired  he  would  not  do  it  presently,  since  he  had 
not  promised  for  the  time.  Besides,  they  feared  she  was  not 
gracious,  and  proposed  1  Cor.  vii.  39,  and  2  Cor.  vi.  14,  to 
be  considered,  and  told  him,  God's  glory  was  like  to  suffer  by 
it,  &c.  He  promised  them  he  would  not  be  hasty ;  but, 
nevertheless,  was  married  the  next  morning,  at  which  many 
of  the  church  were  much  offended.  The  elders  dealt  with 
him  privately,  some  days  after,  about  his  rashness,  and  breach 
of  promise  to  them.  He  said,  he  forgot  his  promise  to 
them.  Some  days  after,  one  of  the  elders,  and  brother  Tyler, 
went  to  him  again ;  but  not  finding  him  sensible  of  his  evil, 
the  pastor,  on  the  day  abovementioned,  brought  it  before  the 
church,  and  he  being  present,  laid  the  evil  before  him. 
Then,  he  being  withdrawn,  the  church  concluded,  that  if  he 
manifested  repentance  he  should  continue  [in]  his  place,  or 
else  be  withdrawn  from.  He  being  called  in  again,  declared, 
with  tears,  he  was  sorry  he  had  offended  the  church  by  not 
marrying  in  the  Lord,  by  bringing  any  dishonour  to  religion 
thereby,  and  by  breaking  his  promise  to  the  elders.  The 
church  being  satisfied  with  his  repentance,  he  kept  his  place. 

On  the  14th  of  September,  1681,  brother  Hill,  seventy 
years  old,  died,  and  was  buried  in  Philip's  Yard. 

On  the  fifth  October,  1681,  Jane  Lowe,  a  baptized  mem- 
ber, first  at  Salop,  and  afterwards  at  Abergavenny,  was 
received  to  full  communion  here,  by  letter  from  the  church 
under  the  care  of  Mr.  Henry  Maurice.1 

On  the  ninth  October,  1681,  the  members,  considering  the 

1  [See  Addenda,  Note  B.] 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  431 

parsons  would  not  suffer  those  whom  they  pleased  to  excom- 
municate to  be  buried  in  their  grave-yards,  concluded  to*  join 
with  the  other  congregation,  walking  with  brother  Gifford, 
to  buy  a  garden  in  Redcross  Lane,  for  a  burying-place. 
They  must  buy  a  life  and  the  fee,  which  would  cost  about 
£120  ;  and  the  members  subscribed  for  that  purpose. 


NOW  BEGINS  THE  TENTH  PERSECUTION. 

On  the  26th  day  of  November,  the  Lord's  day,  in  the 
middle  of  the  afternoon  sermon,  there  came  up  into  the 
meeting-house,  in  Broadmead,  four  or  five  constables ;  viz., 
John  Tilly  on  the  Weir,  Dyer  a  hosier  in  Broadmead, 
Thomas  Lugg  a  hosier,  Jasper  Cause  a  tanner.  John  Tilly, 
at  the  stairs'  head,  commanded  all,  in  the  king's  name,  to 
depart ;  and  then  called  brother  Fownes,  who  was  preaching, 
to  come  down.  Brother  Fownes  asked,  who  or  what  that 
man,  that  so  spake,  was  ?  He  was  told  by  brother  Terrill, 
he  was  a  constable,  though  they  had  not  their  staves.  Tilly 
still  clamouring,  Mr.  Fownes  asked  him  by  what  authority 
he  spake  ?  and  whether  he  had  any  warrant  ?  He  answered, 
they  had ;  and  bid  the  other  constables,  who  stood  on  the 
stairs,  come  up.  Mr.  Fownes  said,  they  had  no  power  by 
the  laws  of  this  nation  to  execute  any  warrant,  order,  writ, 
execution,  or  decree,  on  the  Lord's  day,  except  for  felony  or 
breach  of  the  peace.  Tilly  said,  that  was  a  breach  of  the 
peace ;  and  so  still  commanded  to  depart,  &c.  Our  pastor 
said,  they  were  there  met  to  worship  the  Lord  in  quietness, 
and  asked  Tilly,  whether  they  did  see  any  of  us  armed?  or 
whether  he  did  believe  in  his  conscience  we  were  come  there 
with  any  such  intent  ?  Tilly  said,  we  must  come  to  church, 
canonically  established;  and  so,  with  many  words,  calling 
and  bidding  to  pull  down  brother  Fownes.     And  because  he 


432  THE    RECORDS 

would  not  come  down,  he  asked  our  pastor  what  his  name 
was  ?  He  said,  his  name  was  well  known,  and  he  supposed 
he  knew  it ;  but  did  not  tell  him,  though  not  ashamed  of  his 
name  or  work.  So  brother  Fownes  speaking  to  them  boldly, 
as  one  undaunted,  brother  Terrill  advised  him  to  go  on  with 
his  sermon.  And  they,  after  much  noise,  seeing  many  people 
there,  and  that  they  would  not  disperse,  took  some  persons' 
names,  and  went  away. 

On  the  27th  November,  1681,  being  Lord's  day,  after 
evening  sermon,  the  brethren  were  desired  to  stay,  to  con- 
sider what  might  be  our  duty  as  Christians  to  do  in  such  a 
time;  how  we  might  prevent  such  trouble,  as  we  had  last 
Lord's  day,  by  the  unruly  constables  who  so  abused  their 
office.  There  was  a  new  warrant,  or  sessions'  process,  against 
our  pastor,  for  living  in  a  corporation,  and  above  a  hundred 
dissenters  in  the  city  indicted  last  sessions  for  not  coming  to 
church,  upon  several  statutes  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  And 
they  also  persecuted  us  on  the  Conventicle  Act,  coming  into 
our  meeting-houses,  taking  names,  and  then  getting  the 
warrants  to  distrain  our  goods.  To  prevent  this  last,  and 
that  they  might  not  take  our  pastor,  it  was  moved,  whether, 
when  the  people  were  come  to  the  meeting,  one  door  should 
not  be  shut,  aud  the  other  wratched,  which  might  be  shut  on 
the  sight  of  constables  or  informers ;  but  if  any  of  the  jus- 
tices, or  mayor  himself  came,  to  open  the  door  to  them. 
The  question  was  put,  whether  the  doors  should  be  shut  on 
Lord's  days,  and  our  lecture-days  on  Thursdays  ?  Thirteen 
brethren,  namely,  brethren  Dickason,  Fownes,  Williams, 
Snead,  Messenger,  Amy,  Reeves,  Lewis,  Morgan,  Willis, 
Cornish,  Jones,  White,  would  not  have  the  doors  shut  at  all ; 
five,  namely,  brethren  Clarke,  Page,  King,  Gwilliam,  Hunt, 
would  have  them  open  on  the  Lord's  day ;  twenty,  namely, 
brethren  Ellis,  Ekley,  Bodenham,  Bland,  Hall,  Warren, 
Thomas  Child,  Bryan,  Fry,  Dennis,  Purnell,  Davis,  Hutton, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHKIST.  433 

Whitehead,  Kemp,  Evans,  Tyler,  Teather,  Shuter,  Terrill, 
were  for  keeping  the  doors  fast.  So  we  resolved  to  turn  up 
the  upper  stairs  of  the  new  meeting-house,  and  come  in  at 
the  left  door. 

On  the  fourth  December,  1681,  being  Lord's  day,  John 
Tilly,  Dyer  [a]  stocking-maker,  Hoar  a  freemason,  Walter 
Watkin,  marshal  of  the  new-raised  artillery,  Dennis,  one  of 
Hellier's  men,  and  Joyner  the  keeper  of  Bridewell,  came  up 
into  our  meeting,  some  others  being  below  at  the  door.  As 
soon  as  Tilly  was  come  up  he  calls  out,  and  commands  our 
pastor  to  come  down,  and  commands  several  of  the  brethren, 
one  after  another,  to  pull  him  down  ;  but  they  regarded  him 
not.  Brother  Fownes  would  not  come  down,  but  reasoned 
with  him  about  his  having  no  authority ;  for  they  had  pro- 
duced no  warrant.  Then  they  rushed  through  the  people 
towards  our  minister.  Watkin,  with  great  fury  and  much 
pressing,  gets  up  to  him,  commands  him  to  come  down,  and 
was  going  to  lay  hands  on  him  :  but  our  pastor  desired  him 
to  forbear,  saying,  None  of  the  magistrates  would  do  so. 
Then  Tilly  said,  he  would  send  for  an  alderman,  and  bids 
them  go  and  call  Alderman  Crump ;  but  none  going,  Watkin 
said  he  would  go ;  and  away  he  went,  the  rest  staying.  Our 
pastor  then,  after  some  more  discourse  with  them,  told  them, 
that,  if  they  would  sit  down  and  be  quiet,  they  should  hear 
what  rebellion  they  taught  the  people  (as  it  was  said  they 
did)  against  the  king's  laws.  They  would  not  sit,  but  stood, 
and  Mr.  Fownes  went  on  preaching  from  Heb.  iv.  14 — 16, 
and  afterwards  concluded,  continuing  about  half  an  hour  in 
the  whole.  Then  the  people  went  down  those  stairs  that 
were  turned.  Tilly  calls  after  Mr.  Fownes  to  come  along 
with  him  the  other  way,  but  he  would  not.  Then  they 
would  have  went  that  way  to  take  him ;  but  he  was  conveyed 
away  into  a  room  of  a  neighbour's  house,  under  the  meeting- 
house, and  there  stayed  till  they  were  gone.     As  the  people 

F  F 


434  THE    RECORDS 

were  going  down  they  threatened  brother  Terrill,  Tyler,  &c., 
saying,  they  kept  fast  a  hatch-door,  and  conveyed  the 
minister  another  way  that  they  knew  not  of. 

On  Tuesday,  13th  Dec.  1681,  being  our  monthly  day  of 
prayer,  Mrs.  Nicholas,  in  the  Marsh,  declared  the  work  of 
God  on  her  soul,  with  which  the  church  was  satisfied  to  receive 
her  to  communion. 

On  the  same  day,  John  Hellier,  who  came  from  London 
the  night  before,  Captain  Edward  Arundell,  and  his  lieutenant, 
and  many  constables  of  James's  ward,  &c,  went  between  four 
and  live  in  the  evening  to  Mr.  Weeks's,  the  presbyterian 
minister's  meeting-house,  on  James's  Back ;  and  there,  after 
many  people  were  come  in,  expecting  to  hear  a  lecture-ser- 
mon as  usual  at  that  time,  Hellier  and  his  company  commanded 
them  to  depart ;  and  then  ordered  a  smith,  and  several  other 
labourers  he  had  provided,  to  pull  down  the  pulpit,  which  he 
called  the  prattling-box,  and  the  pews ;  and  they  broke  and 
tore  them  all  to  pieces  as  fast  as  they  could.  As  this  was 
doing  much  rabble  and  boys  came  in,  and  Hellier  encouraged 
them  to  help,  and  said,  he  would  send  up  their  names  to  the 
king,  and  they  should  have  20Z.  a  piece.  So  about  fourteen 
labourers,  and  the  rabble,  continued  late  at  night,  breaking 
down  the  galleries,  and  tore  their  very  windows  in  pieces ; 
and  the  rabble  carried  away  the  plunder  as  fast  as  they  could, 
so  that  an  hundred  pounds  would  not  makc'rfc  good  again. 

On  the  14th  Dec.  1681,  Walter  Watkins  broke  open  the 
door  of  the  house  that  goes  into  Mr.  Weeks's  meeting,  and 
fetched  out  the  broken  stuff  and  timber  plucked  down,  and 
had  it  hauled  away  to  Bridewell.  In  the  afternoon  of  the 
same  day,  the  same  Hellier,  and  Captain  Arundell,  Hvith  their 
petty  constables  and  workmen,  went  to  Mr.  Gifford's  meeting- 
house, broke  open  the  door,  pulled  down  the  pulpit  and  seats, 
and  glass  windows,  and  carried  all  away.  And  then  from 
thence,  the  same  day,  went  to  the  quakers'  meeting-house,  and 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  435 

did  the  same  there;  and,  as  we  hear,  afterwards  appraised  the 
goods  they  carried  away,  valuing  Mr.  Weeks's  at  twenty-two 
shillings,  the  quakers'  at  fifteen  shillings,  and  Mr.  Gilford's  at 
twelve  shillings  and  sixpence.  Thus  they  did  what  they 
pleased :  for  upon  good  consideration  it  was  judged,  two 
hundred  pounds  would  not  make  good  what  they  ruined. 
|  But  our  meeting-house,  and  that  in  the  Castle  where  Mr. 
Stackhouse  then  preached,  were  not  then  meddled  with,  they 
having  no  warrant  from  the  mayor  to  that  purpose.  Some  of 
us  learned  what  pretence  they  had  for  rifling  those  meeting- 
houses; viz.,  they  said  they  had  a  warrant  from  the  king's 
deputy-lieutenants,  to  make  a  distress  for  five  pounds  laid  on 
all  or  each  of  those  houses,  as  a  fine,  for  [not]  sending  a  soldier 
in  arms  to  the  last  muster,  when  the  Lord  Herbert  was  in  this 
city  about  three  months  since.  Wherefore  we  agreed  to  pay 
them  the  five  pounds,  if  they  came  to  our  meeting  with  a 
warrant  to  distrain,  signed  by  three  of  the  deputy-lieutenants ; 
and  this  was  signified  by  our  brother  Gwilliam  to  Sir  Richard 
Crump,  one  of  the  lieutenants,  and  to  Captain  Arundell,  and 
Hellier.  And  the  Castle  people  did  the  same.  The  next  day 
they  said  they  had  got  a  warant  to  distrain  upon  us,  and  on 
the  last  day  of  the  week,  we  paid  five  pounds  to  Arundell  and 
Hellier. 

The  next  day,  being  our  lecture  day,  we  were  afraid  they 
would  come  and  rifle  our  place  also ;  and  about  half  an  hour 
before  brother  Jennings  had  done  preaching,  there  rushed  up, 
in  great  haste,  Alderman  Ollive's  son,  called  a  merchant,  and 
two  or  three,  constables  with  him.  We  desired  brother  Jen- 
nings to  cease,  and  conveyed  him  away  secretly.  Ollive, 
hearing  nobody  preaching,  thronged  through  the  people,  and 
commanded  us  to  depart ;  but  the  people  sat  still,  though  a 
rabble  and  boys  followed  him,  expecting  some  spoil.  They, 
seeing  such  a  multitude  of  people,  asked  what  they  did  there  ? 
None  answering,   after  a  while,  Ollive  cried  O  yes!  three 

f  f  2 


436  THE    RECORDS 

times ;  but  could  hardly  speak,  he  was  so  drunk.  But  the 
people  stayed  till  the  time  was  up,  and  then  departed.  And 
then  we  had  much  ado  to  get  Ollive  and  the  constables  out, 
being  not  willing  to  leave  them  behind  us.  Ollive  laid  hold 
on  Mr.  Nicholas,  and  would  know  his  name ;  but  he  would  * 
not  tell  him,  because  he  was  no  justice.  Boulton,  the  con- 
stable, would  have  hauled  brother  Dennis  to  Bridewell, 
because  he  asked  him  whether  he  had  any  warrant;  but, 
through  mercy,  at  last  we  got  them  all  away,  and  locked  up 
our  doors. 

On  the  sixteenth,  Mr.  Nicholas  was  baptized,  by  brother 
Jennings,  in  the  river  by  Mr.  Young's. 

On  the  18th  Dec.  1681,  being  Lord's  day,  about  three  in 
the  afternoon,  as  brother  Fownes  was  preaching,  tidings  was 
brought  that  the  justices  were  coming;  but  he  went  on. 
Presently,  Sir  Robert  Yeamans,  an  alderman,  with  some 
mayor's  officers  and  Serjeants,  came  up  one  pair  of  stairs,  and 
some  constables  with  them:  and  up  the  other  stairs  came 
J.  Knight,  a  sheriff  of  the  city  and  deputy-lieutenant,  with 
Mr.  Rumsey  the  town-clerk,  Powell  the  bishop's  secretary, 
and  Blinkhorn  his  registrar :  all  the  three  powers,  civil, 
ecclesiastical,  and  military,  with  a  rabble  behind  them.  Sir 
Robert  and  the  sheriff,  at  the  stairs'  head,  called  and  com- 
manded our  pastor  to  come  down;  bat  our  pastor  standing 
still  and  speaking  to  them,  Sir  Robert  tffrongs  through  the 
people  to  find  a  way  to  come  at  him.  At  last,  Chatton,  the 
Serjeant,  finds  a  hatch-door  for  him,  and  then  he  comes 
through  the  people  to  the  pulpit,  and  opens  thcdoor  thereof, 
and  in  great  fury,  says,  "Sirrah,  come  down  !"  pur  pastor, 
having  quieted  the  people,  said  to  him  as  he  was  coming  down, 
"  You  see  we  own  authority  and  are  subject  to  it,  though,  it 
may  be,  as  well  descended  as  some  others,  therefore  such  rude 
language  might  have  been  forborne."  Sir  Robert  commanded 
all  the  people  to  depart,  and  went  down  stairs,  and  sent  our 


' 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  437 

pastor  to  Newgate  by  Ball  the  serjeant.  There  had  been  a 
warrant  granted  against  our  pastor  several  months  before,  and 
he  was  liable  to  be  carried  to  prison  whenever  they  took  him  ; 
so  that  he  kept  in  on  week-days,  but  always  went  out  on 
Lord's  days,  and  sometimes  would  also  venture  to  preach  our 
lecture  on  week-days. 

Then  Sir  Robert  stayed  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs,  to  take  the 
names  of  the  people  that  came  out  that  way,  Hellier  and 
Dennis  writing  them  :  SherhT  Knight,  and  the  bishop's  men, 
taking  the  names  of  those  that  went  down  the  other  stairs. 
They  sent  also  several  to  Bridewell  from  our  meeting  and  Mr. 
Weeks's,  about  twelve  that  day ;  who,  in  the  evening,  were 
brought  before  the  justices  to  give  sureties  for  their  good 
behaviour,  and  to  answer  it  at  the  next  sessions.  By  good 
behaviour,  the  justices  meant,  they  should  not  go  to  any 
meeting.  They  offered  sureties  for  their  appearance  at  the 
sessions,  but  they  would  not  accept  of  that.  Therefore 
brother  Grwilliam  and  others,  about  ten  persons,  were  sent  to 
Newgate,  and  their  mittimus  made  for  a  breach  of  the  peace. 
Brother  Gwilliam  came  that  morning  to  a  meeting,  which  the 
young  men  keep  under  our  meeting-place  on  a  Lord's  day 
morning,  and  though  there  was  none  in  exercise,  for  brother 
Robert  Lewis  had  just  concluded,  Hellier  followed  Mr. 
Gwilliam  in,  and  clapping  him  on  the  shoulder,  said,  he 
arrested  him  in  the  king's  name ;  and  so  carried  him  to 
Bridewell. 

On  Thursday,  22nd  Dec.  1681,  our  lecture  day,  as  soon  as 
the  people  came,  before  we  had  begun,  Hellier,  with  several 
constables,  jcame  into  our  place,  and  hindered  several  from 
coming  in.  Then  he,  and  Lewis  Harris,  a  perjured  person, 
tore  down  the  sides  and  forepart  of  the  pulpit,  and  some  of 
the  people's  seats,  though  but  the  week  before  wTe  paid  five 
pounds  that  our  place  should  not  be  rifled.  Hellier  said  he 
would  do  it  unless  the  people  would  be  gone.     Brother  Dicka- 


438  THE    RECORDS 

son  told  him,  without  the  people's  consent,  there  should  be  no 
meeting  that  night :  then  he  went  away.  But  when  brother 
Terrill  came,  the  people  followed  him  up  into  the  place,  and 
Hellier  sent  up  amongst  us  some  constables  and  watchmen 
that  stayed  all  the  while.  Harris  also  came  up  with  a  tankard  * 
of  strong  drink  in  his  hand,  and  sitting  down  on  the  pulpit- 
seat,  drinks  to  his  companions  a  health  to  the  king,  and  then 
smoked  tobacco,  and  sung  songs,  and  jeered  us  poor  people : 
who  sat  sorrowful  till  our  time  was  expired,  and  then 
departed. 

On  the  25th  Dec.  1681,  about  eight  in  the  morning, 
Hellier,  Lugg,  Tilly,  Jones,  Dyer,  and  some  other  constables, 
came  into  our  meeting-house  before  the  people  were  come 
together.  They  went  into  the  lower  room,  and  finding  but  one 
man  and  some  women,  sat  down,  and  hindered  people  from 
going  up.  Some  people  met  brother  Terrill  in  the  street,  and 
told  him  there  was  a  company  to  hinder  their  meeting ;  but  he 
went  on,  and  though  he  saw  several  constables  with  their 
staves,  went  up  stairs,  and  Hellier  followed  him.  They  both 
sat  down,  and  Hellier  began  to  talk  to  brother  Terrill ;  but  he 
would  not  answer  him,  and  by  and  by  the  other  constables 
and  the  keeper  of  the  Sun  ale-house  came  up  also,  with  three 
tankards  of  strong  drink,  and  a  toast  in  one  of  them,  which 
they  put  on  the  table  in  our  meeting.  Then  Hellier,  taking 
one  of  the  tankards,  drank  to  brother  Terrill,  and  would  have 
him  to  pledge  him.  Mr.  Terrill  said,  "  I  don't  use  to  drink 
here."  "Then,"  says  Hellier,  "I  will."  And  so  they  began,  and 
drank  to  one  another,  and  then  called  to  the  ale-house  keeper 
for  cheese,  who  sent  his  boy  to  fetch  them  breath  and  cheese. 
And  while  they  were  eating  and  drinking,  brethren  Ellis, 
Tyler,  &c,  came  up.  Then  Hellier  laid  hands  on  Mr.  Andrew 
Wike,  junior,  and  sent  him  away,  and  several  ^Imes  speaking 
to  brother  Tyler,  whom  he  called  cousin,  desired  him,  and  all 
of  us,  to  depart.    He  not  obeying,  Hellier  said,  "  J  believe  you 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  439 

are  afraid  of  Mr.  Terrill,  lest  he  should  excommunicate  [you] 
if  you  do :"  or,  "  Who  is  it  that  does  pronounce  the  church 
censures  here  ?  "  Thus  he  passed  the  time  in  his  dry  way  of 
jeering,  and  then  with  the  rest  of  the  constables  goes  to  the 
farther  side  of  the  room,  towards  the  street,  and  there  they 
consult.  Then  again  Hellier,  putting  off  his  hat,  commands 
us  in  the  king's  name  to  depart ;  but  the  people  sat  still,  and 
did  not  regard  him.  Then  going  down  stairs  with  his  crew, 
sent  for  a  smith,  and  nailed  up  both  the  doors,  and  so  went  to 
Mr.  Gifford's  meeting;. 

We  being  thus  nailed  up,  began  to  improve  the  time,  and 
first  sang  a  psalm ;  then  brother  Ellis  prayed,  and  after  him 
brother  Terrill  spake  from  2  Tim.  ii.  12.  After  about  an  hour 
they  came  again,  and  broke  open  the  left-hand  door,  and  came 
up  and  took  our  names.  We  asked  him,  why  he  nailed  us 
up  ?  He  said,  to  take  us  into  custody  till  we  were  convicted: 
for  though  we  were  stubborn,  and  would  not  go,  they  would 
not  be  hindered  in  their  work.  Then  they  bid  us  depart 
again,  but  we  fearing  they  would  keep  us  out  in  the  afternoon, 
would  have  stayed.  Then  they  began  to  be  angry,  fearing 
their  dinner  would  be  spoiled,  clamoured,  and  began  to  be 
rude.  So  fearing  they  should  charge  us  with  a  riot,  brother 
Ellis  desired  Hellier  to  go  first,  and  see  whether  we  would  not 
follow ;  which  we  did.  And  then  a  guard  of  the  night-watch 
was  ordered  to  come  with  their  bills,  and  keep  us  out  in  the 
afternoon  ;  as  they  did.  Hellier  lays  hold  on  his  cousin  Tyler 
to  go  and  dine  with  him,  and  said  he  arrested  him  if  he  would 
not,  and  threatened  he  would  send  over  his  conviction:  so 
brother  Tyler  went  with  him. 

Then  Jasper  Cause  comes  and  hastens  Hellier  from  dinner 
to  go  about  more  work.  Our  meeting  and  Mr.  Weeks's  were 
guarded,  and,  the  people  flocked  to  the  door,  and  stood  in  the 
street.  Hellier  commands  brother  Tyler  to  go  with  him  to 
disturb  other  Meetings,  but  brother  Tyler  said,  he  had  rather 


440  THE    RECORDS 

go  to  prison  than  do  that :  so  at  the  end  of  the  street  he  let 
him  go.  After  that,  brother  Terrill  came  to  our  meeting,  and 
the  watchmen  let  him  go  up,  and  several  others  got  up  after- 
wards, the  watchmen  being  weary.  And  when  the  people  were 
come  up  the  watchmen  came  up  also,  and  sat  down  to  see  who 
would  pray  or  preach.  Then  we  sing  the  46th  psalm,  by  a 
private  sign,  each  looking  in  a  book ;  and  then  brother  Terrill 
said  we  would  sing  the  36th  psalm.  By  this  time  it  was  three 
o'clock,  and  a  little  after  we  departed.  In  the  meantime, 
Hellier  had  routed  brother  GifFord's  and  the  quakers'  meetings. 
Brother  Dickason  was  taken  up  that  day,  in  the  street,  and 
sent  first  to  Bridewell,  and  afterwards  being  brought  before 
Alderman  Ollive,  was  that  evening  committed  to  Newgate. 

On  the  26th  Dec.  1681 — for  many  years  past  we  had  kept 
a  meeting  of  conference  on  Monday  evening,  but  had  lately 
spent  the  time  in  prayer  by  reason  of  the  evil  times — brother 
Davis  began  in  prayer,  and  before  he  had  done  Hellier's  con- 
stables, Tilly,  Lugg,  &c.,  took  him  before  the  mayor,  who 
commanded  his  appearance  the  next  morning.  Brother  Terrill 
with  others  coming  afterwards,  were  told  what  was  done,  yet 
brother  Terrill  spake  from  Eph.  vi.  18,  and  brother  Lewis 
prayed.  But  as  brother  Warren  was  going  to  pray,  up  came 
the  constables,  thundering  at  the  door  with  their  staves,  though 
it  was  only  latched.  The  door  being  opened  they  came  in, 
and  making  a  great  noise  commanded  us  three  times,  in  the 
king's  name,  to  depart;  while  Ralph  Ollive,  jun.,  then  no 
constable,  but,  for  his  officiousness,  made  one  three  days  after, 
hastened  away  to  fetch  the  mayor,  Sir  Thomas  Earle,  who 
came,  with  Sheriffs  Lane  and  Knight,  Rumsey  .the  town- 
clerk,  Capt.  Arundell,  the  bishop's  secretary,  add  several 
serjeants.  We  were  all  silent.  The  mayor  greatly  condemned 
us  for  our  meeting,  and  said,  This  was  for  nothing  but  to 
oppose  the  government.  And  speaking  to  brother  Terrill  to 
answer,  he  said,  No,  may  it  please  your  worship,  God  forbid 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  441 

we  should  do  any  such  thing ;  but  in  obedience  to  the  Lord 
we  had  for  many  years  used  to  meet  here  to  seek  his  face. 
Then  it  was  commanded  to  take  our  names,  which  Ralph 
Ollive  and  Sheriff  Knight's  man  did. 

Some  would  have  the  Sheriffs  take  us  into  custody  there, 
but  they  would  not  receive  us  as  prisoners,  unless  delivered  to 
them  at  their  jaiL  Then  they  discoursed  about  locking  us  up 
there  till  the  morning,  which  brother  Terrill  perceiving  spake 
to  the  mayor,  desiring  such  evil  dealing  might  not  be  used 
towards  us  to  lock  us  up  with  women  and  other  men's  wives. 
And  Mr.  Terrill  spake  the  same  to  Sheriff  Lane,  who 
thereupon  spake  to  the  mayor.  Whereupon  they  took  the 
women's  names,  and  discharged  them.  We  then  desired  to  go 
home  that  night,  promising  to  appear  before  him  on  the 
morrow  morning;  but  it  would  not  be  granted.  Ralph 
Ollive  made  a  noise,  and  urged  the  mayor  not  to  take  any  of 
us  bound  for  the  rest,  unless  we  would  find  sureties  for  our 
good  behaviour.  Then  Sheriff  Knight,  insulting,  said  to  his 
brother  sheriff,  "  Have  but  a  good  mind  to  it,  as  the  king  said 
to  me,  and  the  business  will  be  done."  And  then  he  was  for 
sending  us  to  Newgate,  saying  the  king  said  to  him,  "  Sheriff, 
let  the  prison  be  the  prison."  Thus  he  openly  quoted  the 
king's  words,  but  Lane,  the  upper  sheriff,  would  not  take 
charge  of  us  there. 

After  some  discourse  about  power  to  imprison  upon  the  Act 
of  Conventicles,  the  mayor  and  the  rest  left  us  in  the  con- 
stable's custody,  who  promised  to  secure  us  till  morning.  So 
they  took  thirteen  to  Bridewell,  and  six  to  Newgate,  that 
night.  The  next  morning  we  were  brought  before  the  mayor, 
to  the  Tolzey,  who  charged  us  with  breach  of  the  peace,  and 
would  have  us  find  sureties  to  appear  at  the  next  quarter 
sessions,  and  for  our  good  behaviour  in  the  meantime.  The 
former  we  were  willing  to,  but  not  the  latter.  And  we  had 
then  Counselor  Freak  and  Mr.  Edwards  to  plead  for  us  before 


442  THE    RECORDS 

the  mayor,  and  urged  that  we  had  not  broken  the  peace,  for 
we  sat  still  and  said  nothing  :  only  brother  Terrill  said,  "  Our 
time  is  near  expired,  and  when  it  is  we  shall  depart."  This 
the  constable  alleged.  Our  counsellor  urged,  the  parliament 
did  not  look  upon  such  meeting  a  breach  of  the  peace,  for  they 
had  made  the  penalty  for  the  first  time  but  five  shillings, 
which  would  have  been  otherwise  if  they  had  thought  it  a 
breach  of  the  peace.  Then  we  thought  the  court  would  have 
taken  sureties  for  our  appearance  only,  but  Alderman  Ollive 
insisted  still  for  our  good  behaviour  also,  and  the  bishop 
coming  into  the  council  sat  next  the  mayor,  and  whispered 
him.  So  at  last  they  carried  it,  that  unless  we  find  sureties 
for  our  behaviour,  we  must  go  to  Newgate :  and  accordingly 
made  a  mittimus  for  [us],  viz.,  John  Morgan,  Jos.  White, 
Richd.  Franklyn,  Tim.  Brown,  Rob.  Bodenham,  Ed.  Terrill, 
Sam.  Hunt,  Robt.  Newton,  Robt.  Lewis,  John  Cornish,  John 
Burcome,  Richd.  Towne,  Ben.  Warren,  Sam.  Hunt  Taylor, 
Tho.  Landsdone,  John  Payne,  Peter  Harris,  John  Jones, 
James  Child, — four  of  them  Mr.  GifFord's  people.  We  were 
committed  for  breach  of  the  peace,  and  not  finding  sureties. 
See  a  copy  of  the  mittimus  in  the  waste-book.  They  fined 
brother  Henry  Davis,  a  haberdasher  in  High  Street,  twenty 
pounds,  and  broke  open  the  door  of  his  house,  and  took  away 
near  forty  pounds  in  goods  for  it. 

On  Thursday  the  29th,  our  lecture  day,  our  friends 
attempted  to  go  into  the  meeting,  but  there  was  a  guard  to 
keep  them  out.  And  they  said  they  would  seize  the  house 
for  the  king,  and  so  put  in  watchmen  and  Lewis  Harris,  that 
kept  it  day  and  night.  And  they  tore  down  our  seats  and 
burnt  them  for  firing,  and  continued  drinking  in  our  lower 
room  till  some  of  them  were  drunk,  and  lay  along  the'  floor  by 
the  fireside.  So  our  friends  being  kept  out,  went  to  our 
brother  Lewis's,  by  Philip's  grave-yard  door,  and  brother 
Jennings  preached  to  them. 


t 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST,  443 

On  Friday  the  30th,  we  being  above  twenty  of  us  in  prison, 
considered  we  would  keep  a  day  of  fasting  and  prayer.  So 
we  did  this  day,  and  brother  Fownes,  our  pastor,  being  also 
imprisoned,  preached  about  the  middle  of  the  day  ;  and  in  the 
close,  we  sung  the  46th  psalm.  Which  George  Hellier, 
formerly  an  informer,  now  in  prison  for  debt,  overhearing,  he 
sent  to  Sheriff  Knight,  to  let  him  know  we  had  a  conventicle 
in  Newgate.  Upon  which  the  sheriff,  with  several  Serjeants 
and  artillery  men,  came  up  into  the  gallery  over  against  the 
great  room  where  we  were  met,  and  seeing  the  room  pretty 
full  was  in  a  great  rage.  Brother  Terrill  reading  the  psalm, 
he  commanded  us  to  be  silent ;  so  we  ceased.  And  the  sheriff 
stormed,  and  called  for  the  keeper,  saying  he  would  turn  him 
out  of  his  place,  for  we  should  not  keep  conventicles  there. 
And  seeing  two  gentlewomen  there,  sister  Hollister  and  a 
neighbour  of  hers^  who  came  to  visit  us,  commanded  his 
attendants  to  take  names ;  but  finding  no  more  than  them 
did  not  proceed.  Brother  Terrill  seeing  the  sheriff  in  such  a 
great  rage,  said,  "  The  law  did  allow  a  family  with  four  more 
to  meet,  and  we  being  then  but  one  family  might  meet."  He 
said  we  should  be  locked  up  in  our  rooms.  Captain  Arundell 
also  blaming  us,  brother  Terrill  told  him,  it  was  contrary  to 
law  to  throw  us  into  prison  for  praying  only.  He  said  it  was 
not;  and  plucked  the  act  out  of  his  pocket,  but  could  not  find 
that  power  in^it.     And  they  all  went  away  in  a  great  rage. 

Jan.  1st.  The  next  Lord's  day  our  friends  out  of  prison 
found  our  meeting-house  watched,  and  the  officers  had  notice 
of  sister  Young's,  where  else  they  would  have  met ;  but  were 
forced  to  wander  like  sheep  without  a  shepherd.  However, 
about  six  in  the  evening,  they  got  together  at  sister  Webb's, 
in  Back  Street,  and  brother  Jennings  exercised  among  them. 
This  day  brother  Williams's  apprentice  was  sent  to  Newgate. 
In  the  afternoon  of  this  day,  five  men  and  lads  spent  above 
half  an  hodr  in  pulling  down  some  window  leaves  in  our 


444 


THE    RECORDS 


meeting-house,  and  then  getting  twenty  more  after  them  went 
to  the  quakers'  meeting-house. 

On  the  3rd  of  January,  our  brethren  not  in  prison  kept  a 
day  of  prayer  at  Mr.  Young's,  in  Barton  Regis,  and  were  in 
peace.  The  next  day  we  kept  a  day  of  prayer  in  prison,  and 
in  the  close  sang  84th  psalm.  Which  George  Hellier  hearing 
would  have  come  up  to  disturb  us,  but  some  keeping  the  stairs 
would  not  let  him.  Then  he  sent  for  the  sheriff,  but  he  did 
not  come. 

On  the  5  th  day,  our  lecture  day,  friends  at  liberty  met  at 
brother  Snead's,  in  the  Castle. 

On  the  8th,  being  Lord's  day,  they  met  near  Baptist  Mills, 
in  a  lane,  and  brother  Jennings  preached.  In  the  evening, 
about  six,  they  met  at  brother  Lewis's. 

On  the  9th,  those  in  prison  kept  another  day  of  prayer. 

On  the  10th,  being  the  church's  monthly  day  of  prayer, 
friends  without  met  at  brother  Terrill's.  But  being  discovered 
by  Jasper  Cause,  who  sent  to  acquaint  Hellier ;  but  in  the 
meantime,  a  neighbour  having  acquainted  Mrs.  Terrill  thereof, 
they  concluded  in  prayer,  and  departed. 

On  the  11th,  being  quarter  sessions,  the  sheriff  ordered 
Isaac  Dennis,  keeper  of  Newgate,  to  bring  us  prisoners  to  the 
Guildhall.  We  had  been  above  forty,  but  some  made  friends 
and  got  out ;  but  about  twenty-five  of  us  were  brought  to  the 
hall.  We  had  fee'd  Messrs.  Pollett  and  llagget,  of  Bristol, 
counsellors ;  Mr.  Freak,  of  London,  counsellor ;  Mr.  Joseph 
Tyler,  barrister ;  Mr.  Edwards  and  Richard  Higgins,  attor- 
neys: to  appear  for  us.  There  were  on  the  bench  Sir  Thomas 
Earle,  mayor,  Sir  Robert  Yeamans,  Sir  Richard  Crump, 
Aldermen  Ollive  and  Hicks,  Sir  Robt.  Cann,  Sir  Richd. 
Harte,  and  the  bishop.  These,  with  the  town-clerk,  irere  for 
continuing  us  in  prison;  but  our  counsel  prevailed,  upon 
giving  securities  to  appear  from  day  to  day,  to  answer  and 
t rax cisc   such  indictments  that   were  against   u£     Mr.  Jer. 


I 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  44"> 

Holloway  and  Mr.  Thomas  Scroop  were  bound  for  us  all, 
twenty  pounds  apiece,  and  paying  prison  fees  we  were  dis- 
charged. But  our  pastor  [was]  still  kept  in  prison,  and  not 
brought  to  the  hall. 

The  next  morning  we,  and  the  rest  of  our  brethren,  met 
at  brother  Gwilliam's,  to  consider  what  we  should  do.  They 
that  came  out  of  prison  were  for  meeting  at  our  public 
place ;  .though  the  people  belonging  to  the  other  meetings 
had  all  left  their  places,  and  met  privately.  Only  the 
quakers,  whose  meeting  was  nailed  up,  met  in  the  long- 
entry  and  court  by  their  place.  The  most  of  our  brethren 
were  for  meeting  privately  also ;  for  the  persecutors  went  up 
and  down  to  men's  shops,  to  rifle  and  distrain  their  goods, 
having  convictions  and  warrants  from  the  mayor ;  and  if 
they  could  not  get  in,  would  bring  sledges  and  break  open 
the  doors,  and  carrying  away  their  goods,  would  sell  them  at 
what  rate  they  pleased.  We,  therefore,  consented  to  meet 
privately  also,  where  we  could,  and  to  alter  our  lecture  to 
Wednesday  evening.  We  met  that  evening  at  brother 
Towne's,  next  door  to  Newgate,  in  the  Castle  precincts. 

On  Lord's  day,  loth  January,  we  met  at  brother  TerriU's, 
coming  in  at  the  back  door,  over  the  fields,  between  seven 
and  eight  in  the  morning,  and  continued  till  near  one  in 
peace.  Brethren  Jennings  and  Terrill  preached,  and  brother 
Lewis  prayed. 

On  Wednesday,  the  19th,  our  lecture  day,  we  met  in 
brother  Fownes*s  house,  which  was  built  by  Mr.  Ewins,  and 
being  great  part  of  us  assembled,  there  was  information 
given;  upon  which  Captain  Arundell,  the  bishop's  registrar, 
and  constables  of  Castle  Ward,  with  parson  Heath,  dispersed 
themselves  all  about  the  castle,  to  hearken  if  they  could  hear 
any  one  pray  or  preach  in  those  precincts,  where  they  were 
told  there  was  a  meeting.  We  had  notice  of  it,  and  were 
desired  to  disperse.     So  some  went  away,  getting  out  at  the 


446  THE    RECORDS 

back  door ;  but  many  stayed,  and  making  fast  the  doors  con- 
tinued in  prayer  and  exhortation  for  about  an  hour  and  a 
half,  and  went  away,  being  not  found  out. 

On  the  22nd,  being  Lord's  day,  we  met  at  brother  TerrilPs, 
at  the  upper  end  of  Redcross  Lane,  about  six  and  seven  in 
the  morning.  But  while  Mr.  Enoch  Prosser,  a  gifted  brother 
belonging  to  Mr.  Keach  of  London,-  who  came  to  our  fair, 
was  preaching,  about  ten,  Hellier,  SherhT  Knight,  [the] 
bishop's  registrar,  and  constables  came,  to  the  number  of 
about  twenty.  The  sheriff  and  Hellier,  with  others,  knock 
at  the  street  door,  but  none  answered.  And  they  sent 
to  Tilly's  for  an  iron  crow,  wherewith  they  broke  some 
battens,  but  could  not  enter,  after  much  labour.  Others  of 
them  laboured  hard  with  a  bar  at  the  back  door,  but  could 
not  get  in.  Then  Edward  Summers,  a  vile  young  man,  a 
butcher,  with  others,  got  into  Captain  Vaughan's  orchard 
behind  the  house ;  but  neither  they,  nor  those  at  the  street 
door,  could  get  in.  They  behind  broke  a  window  and  its 
shutter,  driving  the  bar  into  the  room,  where  several  people 
were.  Brother  Terrill  offered  to  open  the  doors  if  they 
would  stay  till  he  had  tied  up  his  mastiff  dog,  but  they 
would  not.  So  he  let  them  alone,  till,  after  much  fruitless 
labour,  they  were  willing  to  accept  his  offer.  He  opened  the 
back  door,  and  they  that  came  in  there  let  in  their  gang  at 
the  street  door;  and  one  of  them  threatened  to  shoot  the 
dog,  which  they  saw  tied,  and  strove  to  come  at  them. 

Then  John  Hellier  arrested  Mr.  Terrill  in  the  king's  name, 
and  he  and  others  would  have  hauled  him  away  ;  but  the 
sheriff  bid  them  let  him  alone  at  present.  So  they  took  the 
women's  names,  and  let  them  go,  all  but  three;  and  the 
men's  names,  and  dismissed  them,  all  but  eight ;  who,  with 
the  three  women  and  brother  Terrill,  were  sent  to  Newgate : 

2  [For  an  account  of  the  labours  and  Christ,  sec  Crosby,  v<^.  ii.  185,  202; 
sufferings  of  this   eminent   servant   of      vol.  iv.  2G8.] 


f 


OF   A   CHURCH    OF   CHRIST.  447 

namely,  Mr.  Samuel  Crisp  of  London,  Mr.  Enoch  Prosser 
of  ditto,  Thomas  Jennings,  Thomas  Child,  Joshua  Bryan, 
Joseph  White,  Robert  Lewis,  Mr.  Nelson,  Mrs.  Rachel 
Groome  of  London,  Dorothy  Smith,  Elizabeth  Gwilliam. 
When  they  came  to  Newgate,  they  demanded  a  copy  of  their 
commitment  and  detainer,  which  was  promised  them  by  the 
keeper.  But  about  half  an  hour  after  four  in  the  afternoon, 
they  were  brought  before  Alderman  Ollive,  at  the  Three 
Tuns  Tavern,  and  not  before  the  mayor.  There  were  some 
attorneys  there,  but  the  alderman  would  let  neither  of  them 
stay  to  speak  for  them.  Then  an  information  in  writing  was 
read  and  sworn  to,  importing  that  there  was  an  unlawful 
assembly  of  above  three  score  persons  in  the  house  of 
Edward  Terrill,  who  for  some  time  denied  them  entrance 
who  came  to  keep  his  majesty's  peace,  &c.  They  would 
have  Mr.  Terrill  to  give  bond  and  sureties  for  appearance 
and  good  behaviour.  The  latter  he  would  not  do,  because  if 
a  man  goes  once  to  a  meeting  afterwards,  they  count  it  a 
breach  of  his  bond.  Therefore  Alderman  Ollive,  and  Alder- 
man Crump,  who  also  came  in,  and  was  not  very  willing  to 
act,  signed  a  mittimus  for  Mr.  Terrill,  who  was  taken  away 
to  Newgate  accordingly.  And  the  three  women  were 
that  night  discharged,  and  the  men,  being  bound  one  for 
another  to  appear  the  next  morning  at  the  Tolzey,  were  sent 
home. 

Hellier  and  Knight  were  in  haste,  because  they  heard 
there  was  a  meeting  privately  in  the  Castle  ;  to  which,  there- 
fore, they  went  about  six  the  same  evening,  and  brake  open 
the  doors,  endeavouring,  with  great  fury,  to  seize  Mr.  Young, 
the  preacher,  but  could  not ;  for  while  they  were  getting  in, 
he,  with  others,  got  out  at  a  window,  and  escaped  through  a 
house  into  Castle  Street.  Then  Hellier  and  the  sheriff 
brake  down  the  pulpit,  and  bid  the  boys  and  rabble  take  care 
of  the  windows ;  which  they  understood,  and  brake  them  all 


448  THE    RECORDS 

to  pieces.  When  they  were  weary,  they  left  a  watch  in  the 
meeting-house  all  night,  and  the  next  day  defaced  and  ruined 
it,  as  they  had  done  ours  before. 

The  next  morning  January  23rd,  1681,  the  other  of  our 
brethren,  and  the  Londoners,  appearing  at  the  Tolzey,  and 
having,  by  brother  Terrill's  care,  Mr.  Edwards  the  attorney 
to  speak  for  them,  upon  taking,  each  of  them,  the  oath  of 
allegiance,  were  dismissed ;  and  brother  Jennings  being  one 
of  them,  was  at  liberty  to  preach  to  the  people. 

On  the  25th,  being  our  lecture  day,  they  had  a  meeting  at 
six  in  the  evening,  in  peace. 

On  the  27th  day  of  the  month,  John  Hcllier  and  others 
went  into  the  fair  that  then  was,  and  distrained  Mr.  Enoch 
Prosser,  the  Londoner's  goods,  to  the  value  of  £40  for  £10 ; 
and  of  Mr.  Crisp,  of  hats,  near  £10.  Thus  they  suffered  for 
being  at  that  meeting. 

On  the  Lord's  day,  the  29th,  the  church  that  were  at 
liberty  appointed  four  places  to  meet  in ;  namely,  with 
brother  Davis  at  Mr.  Ellis's,  with  brother  Clark  at  brother 
Richard  Towne's,  with  Robert  Lewis  at  Mr.  Bodenham's, 
with  brother  Dickason  at  widow  Bush's,  in  the  Shambles,  all 
at  six  in  the  evening.  Brother  Jennings  was  at  sister 
Clark's  in  Broad  Street,  in  the  afternoon ;  and  many  of  the 
congregation  went  in  the  afternoon  on  Durdham  Down,  and 

DO  * 

got  into  a  cave  of  a  rock,  towards  Clifton,  where  brother  Th. 
Whinnell  preached  to  them;  and  divers  of  Mr.  Weeks's 
people  assembled  with  them,  and  spent  two  hours  in  peace. 
The  constables  hunted  the  fields  for  them,  but  found  them 
not. 

Our  pastor,  Mr.  Fownes,  having  sent  for  a  Habeas  Corpus, 
it  came  down  by  post  (January  30th),  with  a  latitat,  a  made 
debt  for  £150  to  one  in  London  ;  which  writ  of  latitat  the 
sheriff  was  first  served  with  the  same  day.  The  next  day 
the  under  sheriff  was  served  with  the  Habeas  Corpus,  and  on 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  449 

the  first  of  February  Mr.  Fownes  was  sent  up  prisoner  to 
the  King's  Bench  bar,  to  appear  the  6th  or  7th  instant. 
Providence  ordering  that  a  friend,  Mr.  Nathanael  Wade,  was 
then  going  to  London,  the  sheriff,  to  save  charge,  suffered 
Mr.  Fownes  to  go  with  him,  there  being  a  bond  of  £500 
first  given  by  Mr.  Thomas  Scrope,  Mr.  Terrill,  and  Mr. 
Daniel  Gwilliam,  to  Sheriff  Knight,  that  he  should  not 
escape,  but  return  if  remanded.  But  although  this  bond  was 
given,  yet  the  cruel  sheriff  would  not  give  Mr.  Fownes  leave 
to  lie  one  night  at  home  before  he  went,  nor  go  into  his 
house  when  he  went  by  his  own  door  the  next  morning  for 
London  ;  but  ordered  the  keeper  to  bring  him  to  Lawford's 
Gate,  and  there  deliver  him  to  the  under  sheriff,  who  gave  a 
deputation  to  Mr.  Wade  to  see  him  safely  delivered  in 
London.  And  there  they  took  horse,  it  being  a  cold,  search- 
ing, windy  day,  very  bitter  weather,  and  dangerous  to  Mr. 
Fownes,  who  had  been  kept  close  prisoner  six  weeks  and 
three  days. 

On  the  second  instant,  being  Thursday,  to  which  [day]  we 
changed  our  lecture,  for  the  conveniency  of  the  Castle  people, 
[we]  met  at  brother  Nathanael  Snead's,  in  the  Castle,  in 
peace. 

On  the  fourth,  the  mayor,  Sir  Thomas  Earle,  sent  one  of 
his  officers  to  bring  brother  Terrill  from  prison  before  him, 
and  there  being  one  Mr.  Young,  a  papist,  with  the  mayor, 
Sir  Thomas  seemed  very  kind,  and  would  make  brother 
Terrill's  own  house  his  prison,  if  he  would  not  keep  conven- 
ticles there.  To  which  brother  Terrill  replied,  It  was  God's 
command  that  we  should  assemble  ourselves,  and  therefore  he 
could  not  promise  the  contrary.  The  mayor  said,  he  thought 
Mr.  Terrill  had  been  a  more  prudent  man.  To  which  Mr. 
Terrill,  "  True  wisdom  is  to  fear  God,  and  obey  him."  The 
mayor  said,  he  would  not  enter  into  any  dispute  with  him ; 
but   said,   "This  is  nothing  but  perverseness  and   rebellion 

G  G 


450  THE    RECORDS 

against  the  government,  and  you  think  to  make  the  govern- 
ment stoop  to  you ;  but  let  me  tell  you  it  is  your  mistake, 
for  there  are  such  things  providing  that  will  make  you 
subject;  they  will  take  a  course  with  such  obstinate  persons 
as  you  are,  and  if  you  will  not  accept  of  my  kindness,  you 
may  lie  in  jail,  and  when  the  sessions  come  in  April  next, 
the  same  thing,  and  others  also,  will  be  required  of  you,  and 
a  course  taken  with  your  estates.  The  times  are  not  now  as 
they  were  two  years  ago."  And  then  Sir  Robert  Cann  came 
in,  and  began  to  dissuade  Mr.  Terrill  from  meetings  also. 
To  whom  he  replied,  That  in  faithfulness  to  the  Lord  he 
must  be  in  his  duty.  So  Sir  Robert  ceased ;  but  the  mayor 
insisted  upon  Mr.  Terrill's  engaging,  but  he  would  not. 
Then  the  mayor  said,  he  must  to  Newgate  again,  and  bid 
him  good  night.  So  as  Mr.  Terrill  went  out  into  the  hall, 
from  the  parlour,  Mrs.  Sheriff  Lane,  and  the  mayor's  sister, 
Mrs.  Allen,  came  forth,  and  endeavoured  to  persuade  Mr. 
Terrill  to  promise  the  mayor,  and  not  go  to  prison  again. 
But  Mr.  Terrill  said,  he  would  not  let  the  mayor  do  what  he 
would  with  him.  Then  Mrs.  Sheriff  said,  she  would  have 
him  home  to  her  house,  and  he  should  be  a  prisoner  there. 
Mr.  Terrill  thanked  her  for  her  kindness,  but  told  her 
it  would  be  too  great  a  trouble.  The  sheriff  also  offered 
that;  but  at  last  prevailed  with  the  mayor,  and  sent  him 
prisoner  to  his  own  house  about  ten  at  night. 

On  the  fifth,  our  friends  met  in  four  parts,  one  near  Bris- 
lington,  the  others  in  town ;  two  of  which  were  in  peace,  and 
the  other  in  town  was  discovered,  and  they  were  obliged  to 
disperse. 

On  the  7th,  the  usual  day  of  prayer,  they  met  at  Cutler's 
Mill.  (The  pastor  was  to  be  brought  to  his  trial  this  day  at 
the  King's  Bench  bar.)  But  they  were  forced  to  disperse 
before  the  day  was  ended. 

On     the     ninth,     they     had     their     lecture     at     widow 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  451 

Brewer's,  in  Gloucester  Road,  without   the  Gate,  and  were 
in  peace. 

On  Lord's  day,  the  12th,  they  met  part  with  Mr.  Whin- 
nell,  near  the  half-way  house  going  to  Brislington,  and  the 
rest  with  brother  Jennings  at  sister  Young's,  and,  by  going  a 
great  way  about  to  the  places,  were  in  peace. 

On  the  16th,  the  lecture  at  brother  Towne's,  near  Newgate, 
in  peace.  The  same  day  we  heard  our  pastor,  Mr.  Fownes, 
was  cleared  in  London,  because  his  mittimus  was  faulty ;  but 
was  bound  by  Mr.  Sayer,  the  attorney-general,  to  appear  the 
first  day  of  next  term,  to  answer  for  living  in  a  corporation, 
and  holding  a  conventicle  there. 

On  the  19th,  being  Lord's  day,  the  congregation  met  in 
four  places,  in  and  out  of  town,  in  peace.  And  besides  these 
general  meetings,  there  were  many  for  old  and  sickly  people, 
four  besides  the  family,  in  the  most  convenient  houses,  where 
more  members  than  one  lived.  On  the  same  day,  brother 
Terrill,  being  a  prisoner  in  his  own  house  as  above  said,  had 
but  three  besides  his  family  whom  he  endeavoured  to  instruct. 
And  the  while,  Sheriff  Knight,  Captain  Arundell,  Brand  the 
bishop's  secretary  and  registrar,  and  some  constables,  with  a 
great  rabble,  surrounded  the  house,  and  some  got  over  the 
wall,  and  hearkened,  and  at  last  broke  the  windows,  and 
knocked.  And  when  they  got  entrance,  narrowly  searched 
every  room  of  the  house,  but  could  not  find  their  prey.  But 
two  of  them  said  they  would  swear  there  were  twenty  of 
them  there,  and  that  they  had  got  over  the  wall,  because 
some  stones  were  loose,  which  they  themselves  had  occasioned 
by  getting  over  it  as  above. 

On  the  23rd  day,  being  our  lecture  day,  they  kept  as  a  day 
of  prayer  at  Mr.  Joseph  Jackson's  over  Durdham  Down,  and 
were  in  peace. 

On  the  26th  day,  being  Lord's  day,  they  kept  two  meetings 
in  the  fields,  and  were  in  peace. 

g  a  2 


452  THE    RECORDS 

March  2nd. — The  lecture  day;  they  had  a  meeting  at 
brother  Gwilliam's,  in  Lewin's  Mead,  in  peace. 

On  the  third,  Mr.  Fownes  came  to  Bath  in  his  way  to 
Bristol,  to  visit  his  congregation  privately. 

On  the  fifth,  being  Lord's  day,  our  congregation  and  bro- 
ther Gifford's,  met  together  near  Brislington.  Brother 
Whinnell  preached  in  the  morning,  and  brother  GifFord  in 
the  evening,  both  in  peace. 

On  the  eighth,  brother  Whinnell  informed  us,  he  had  some 
years  ago  been  dismissed  from  a  church  at  Christchurch,  in 
Dorsetshire,  to  a  people  here  in  Bristol,  walking  with  one 
Mr.  Kitchen,  which  were  then  dissolved,  and  therefore  desired 
communion  with  us. 

On  the  ninth,  the  lecture  day,  met  at  widow  Brewer's  in 
Gloucester  Lane,  in  peace. 

On  the  12th,  Lord's  day,  met  in  the  fields  by  Barton  Hun- 
dred, and  Mr.  Samuel  Buttall  of  Plymouth  preached  in  the 
fore  part  of  the  day,  and  brother  Whinnell  in  the  evening. 
It  was  thought  there  were  near  one  thousand  people  in  the 
morning.  The  tithing-man  came  to  save  his  five  pounds, 
passed  through  them,  and  waited  at  a  distance  till  they  had 
done.  This  afternoon,  Mr.  Weeks  was  taken  in  James's 
yard,  before  the  afternoon  meeting,  by  Hellier.  They  had 
him  before  the  mayor,  who  was  going  to  Wasborough  [St. 
Werburgh's  church],  and  took  Mr.  Weeks  with  him. 

On  Monday,  the  13th,  because  of  the  persecution,  the 
church  met  at  Mr.  Jackson's  park  house,  over  Durdhani 
Down,  and  Mr.  Fownes  preached  and  administered  the 
Lord's  supper.  Some  at  first  scrupled  receiving  on  a  week- 
day, but  Mr.  Fownes  satisfied  them  from  several  considera- 
tions:— particularly  that  it  is  in  scripture  tied  to  no  day,  and 
was  first  instituted  and  administered  by  our  Lord  on  Friday. 
At  this  meeting  sister  Nicholas,  having  been  baptized  before, 
was  received  to  communion.     It  was  a  rainy  morning,  and 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  453 

afterwards  snow  ;  but  the  greatest  part  of  the  church  got 
thither  notwithstanding. 

On  the  16th,  the  lecture  in  the  fields ;  in  peace,  though  a 
bailiff's  man  stood  and  looked  on. 

On  the  19th,  being  Lord's  day,  met  in  the  lanes  beyond 
Baptist  Mills.  Mr.  Buttall  preached  [to]  near  a  thousand 
people.  Parson  Pledwell  went  by  before  they  began ;  and  in 
the  afternoon,  being  met  a  little  beyond  Lower  Easton,  the 
constables  came.  Brother  Buttall  ceased  a  while,  and  one  of 
the  constables,  when  they  had  passed  through,  cried,  O  yes  ! 
and  commanded  them  in  the  king's  name  to  depart.  So  they 
went  a  little  farther,  and  were  in  peace.  Brother  Jennings 
preached  to  several  aged,  &c,  at  Mr.  Gay's,  in  Small  Street, 
and  they  also  were  in  peace,  the  same  afternoon.  And  so 
they  were  the  next  lecture  day,  at  eight  in  the  evening,  at 
sister  Clarke's  in  Broad  Street. 

Anno  1682. 

On  the  26th,  being  Lord's  day,  they  were  near  Brislington, 
on  Somersetshire-side,  and  in  the  afternoon  joined  brother 
Gifford's  people.  There  were  thought  to  be  about  fifteen 
hundred  people  [and]  more,  and  their  adversaries  looked  on : 
but  being  on  the  other  side,  could  not  come  at  them.  On  the 
next  day,  Sheriff  Knight  came  home  from  Newmarket,  where 
he  had  been  with  the  king  and  duke,  and  had  been  knighted. 

The  lecture  on  the  30th  was  near  Stapleton,  in  peace; 
brother  Jennings  preached.  And  so  they  were  on  April  2nd, 
being  Lord's  day,  though  Summers,  the  informer,  was  search- 
ing for  them,  and  was  once  very  near  them,  but  saw  them  not. 

On  Friday,  the  7th,  they  met  near  the  Boarden-house,  at 
Mr.  Wickham's.  Spent  the  former  part  of  the  day  in 
prayer ;  then  brother  Fownes  preached,  and  administered 
the  Lord's  supper,  in  peace.  At  this  time  brother  Whinnell, 
being   a  member  nowhere,  because  the  church  to  which  he 


454  THE    RECORDS 

last  belonged  was  dissolved,  declared  the  work  of  God  upon 
his  soul,  and  professing  to  believe  the  principles  contained  in 
the  Baptist  Confession  of  Faith,  1667,3and  to  be  against  free- 
will, which  was  held  by  the  church  to  which  he  had  belonged, 
and  also  saying  washing  feet  was  not  his  judgment,  he  was 
received  into  fellowship. 

On  the  9th  day,  being  Lord's  day,  they  met  at  Upper 
Knowl ;  but  the  informers  got  constables  and  boys  from  Bed- 
minster,  and  would  not  let  them  meet.  But  it  being  very 
wet,  they  went  after  some  time  to  an  ale-house.  And  the 
while,  the  people  met  at  some  distance,  and  endured  the  rain. 
It  was  supposed,  the  informers  hoped  to  have  met  with 
Mr.  Fownes,  but  he  was  not  there.  Brother  Whinnell 
preached. 

On  the  13th,  lecture  day,  they  met  in  the  rain,  in  a 
lane,  and  brother  Jennings  preached  to  them  in  peace. 

On  the  14th,  Mr.  Hancock,  who  had  formerly  preached 
several  times,  was  cast  into  prison,  for  having  preached  within 
this  city,  within  seven  years  last  past. 

On  the  20th,  a  day  of  prayer,  from  nine  to  five  in  the  even- 
ing, at  Mr.  Jackson's,  over  the  Down,  in  peace.  This  day 
Daniel  Barnett  declared  the  work  of  God  on  his  soul  to  the 
ruling  elders,  the  pastor  being  at  London  against  the  term. 
And  there  being  about  thirty  aged  and  weak  persons  of  the 
church  that  could  not  go  into  the  fields,  this  day  agreed  that 
seven  brethren,  viz.  Ellis,  Terrill,  Dickason,  Clark,  Cornish, 
Robert  Lewis,  James  Lewis,  should  every  one  take  four,  and 
preach  or  exercise  what  gifts  they  had,  on  Lord's  day,  either 

3  [A  Confession  of  this  date  has  not  above  one  hundred  congregations  met  in 
been  met  with  by  the  editor,  nor  is  any  the  former  year.  It  was  generally  re- 
account  of  it  to  be  found  in  Crosby  or  ceived  by  all  those  congregations  that 
Ivimey.  The  London  baptists  did  how-  held  the  doctrines  of  personal  election 
ever  publish  a  Confession  in  1677,  which  and  the  certainty  of  the  saints'  final  per- 
was  reprinted  in  168.0  and  169D,  with  severance.  Crosby,  ii.  312,  317.] 
the  approbation  of  the  messengers  from 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  455 

at  eight  in  the  morning,  or  at  five  in  the  evening,  for  two 
hours'  space,  that  they  might  be  built  up,  &c. 

On  the  23rd,  being  Lord's  day,  met  near  the  Boarden- 
house,  and  brother  Whinnell  preached  in  peace ;  but  met  a 
constable  as  they  were  coming  home  only. 

The  next  lecture  near  Baptist  Mills,  and  brother  Jennings 
preached  in  peace  also.  Brother  Terrill  being  discharged 
from  prison  at  the  quarter  sessions,  was  bound  to  appear,  de 
die  in  diem,  to  traverse  such  indictments  as  might  be  brought 
against  him : — as  were  also  Mr.  Marsh,  Love,  Goldney,  Har- 
ford, Pierce,  Weeks,  and  others. 

On  the  30th,  Lord's  day,  we  met,  because  of  the  great 
rain,  at  Mr.  Young's;  brother  Jennings  preached.  Two 
officers  knocked  at  the  door,  and  desired  to  come  in  to  drink, 
but  Mr.  Young,  going  himself  to  the  door,  threw  them  six- 
pence, and  bid  them  not  stand  in  the  rain  :  so  we  were 
in  peace. 

On  the  4th  May,  1682,  information  was  brought  to  a  petty 
sessions  for  Gloucestershire,  against  brother  Jennings,  for 
preaching  in  the  lanes,  and  a  warrant  granted  for  levying 
five  pounds,  or  else  goods,  or  person.  And  they  came  to 
execute  it  where  he  used  to  lodge,  but  he  was  married  about 
fourteen  days  before,  and  went  to  live  at  Sodbury,  so  escaped ; 
but  was  forced  to  abscond. 

The  next  Lord's  day  and  lecture  day,  being  a  day  of 
prayer,  we  were  in  peace ;  brother  Whinnell  preached. 

On  Lord's  day,  May  14th,  1682,  met  in  King's  Wood,  in 
the  way  to  Hanham,  and  brother  Whinnell  preached  in  peace. 
On  the  lecture  day,  also,  the  18th,  brother  Jennings  preached 
in  peace ;  only  three  boys  and  two  maids  of  Esq.  Brown's 
the  collier,  came  and  scoffed. 

On  the  20th,  sister  Shuter  departed,  and  was  interred  at 
Redcliffe. 

On  the  21st,  Lord's  day,  met  in  the  fields,  in  peace;  only 


456  THE    RECORDS 

Mr.  Brown  the  collier's  man  came  in  sermon  time,  and 
observed  the  preacher,  brother  Jennings.  But  as  the  friends 
came  into  town  again,  some  informers  and  constables  met 
them,  and  examined  where  they  had  been  ;  and  because  they 
would  not  tell  them,  said  they  had  been  at  a  conventicle,  and 
they  would  send  them  to  Bridewell,  and  took  the  name  and 
places  of  abode  of  some ;  ordering  them  to  appear  before  the 
mayor  the  next  morning.  And  Mrs.  Owen  the  under-cham- 
berlain's  wife,  Mr.  Joyner,  Mr.  Hart's  and  Mr.  Doleman's 
maids,  and  Dr.  GrifFen's  daughter  were  put  in  Newgate,  and 
kept  there  from  four  in  the  afternoon  till  about  seven  ;  when 
old  Sir  John  Knight  hearing  of  it,  ordered  them  to  be  dis- 
missed, on  promise  of  appearing  the  next  morning  before  the 
mayor,  if  called  for.  Mrs.  Betty  at  Mr.  Hart's  was  abused 
by  Hellier,  in  the  street,  and  had  her  sarcenet  hood  torn, 
because  she  would  not  tell  him  where  she  had  been. 

On  the  25th  day,  being  the  lecture,  brother  Whinnell 
preached  in  Stapleton  Lanes  in  peace. 

On  Lord's  day,  the  28th,  Mr.  David  Jones  of  Swansea 
preached  to  us  in  Gassen  Lanes  in  peace ;  only  some  men,  said 
to  be  officers  of  Stapleton,  talked  hard,  and  threatened  to 
pull  stakes  out  of  the  hedge  and  drive  us  away ;  but  there 
was  a  multitude  thronging  the  lane,  so  they  did  not 
disturb  us. 

On  the  29th,  being  the  king's  birth-day,  we  resolved  to 
keep  a  day  at  Mr.  Jackson's,  over  the  down  ;  but  Sandford,  an 
innkeeper  at  West-bury,  hearing  of  our  meeting,  sent  the 
bailiff  of  the  hundred  and  half  a  dozen  more  to  disturb  us, 
after  we  had  spent  about  three  hours.  When  they  came 
into  the  court,  Alderman  Yate's  wife  advised  us  to  re- 
tire into  the  garden  and  disperse;  so  we  did,  and  met 
again  in  a  valley  on  Durdham  Down,  and  continued  in  peace 
till  about  five,  having  said  Mr.  Jones  also  with  us. 

On  the  31st,  about  ten  in  the  morning,  when  the  quarter 


OF    A   CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  457 

sessions  were  about  fining  the  dissenters,  a  great  thunder 
cloud  made  it  dark  in  the  court  for  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  to  the  wonder  of  many.  Brother  Gwilliam,  then  at 
sea,  and  brother  Messenger,  were  fined  for  being  at  a 
meeting  in  December  last ;  brother  Gwilliam  five  pounds, 
and  brother  Messenger  ten  shillings.  Hellier  also  swore 
against  brother  Warren,  and  the  jury  thereon  brought  him  in 
guilty,  and  he  was  fined  ten  shillings,  though  he  was  not 
there :  all  to  be  in  prison  till  they  had  paid  their  fines  and 
fees.  The  same  day  Mr.  Weeks,  the  minister,  was  sent  to 
prison  on  the  Oxford  Five  Mile  Act.  They  accused  him  of 
being  with  us  on  the  Down,  but  he  was  not  there.  The 
next  day,  brethren  Hunt,  Bodenham,  Cornish,  were  fined  ten 
shillings  a  man,  for  being  at  a  meeting  of  prayer,  and  fees, 
which  made  it  thirty-three  or  thirty-four  shillings  apiece. 
And  brother  Dickason  was  fined  a  noble,  although  he  was 
not  there,  but  was  in  prison,  being  carried  away  the  day  before 
to  Newgate.  And  besides  this,  they  had  a  warrant  against  him 
for  £10  for  another  meeting,  and  that  day  one  of  Hellier's 
constables  seized  his  three  horses  ;  and  Sheriff  Knight  threat- 
ened to  imprison  brother  Terrill  on  the  Oxford  Act  for 
preaching. 

Brother  Whinnell  preached  the  lecture  on  the  fourth,  and 
the  next  Lord's  day  brother  David  Jones  preached  in  peace. 

On  the  sixth,  we  kept  a  day  from  nine  till  five,  and  were 
in  peace.  And  we  heard  our  brother  Fownes  had  been  dis- 
charged at  the  King's  Bench,  in  London. 

On  our  lecture  day,  the  eighth,  brother  Whinnell  preached 
in  peace. 

On  Lord's  day,  the  eleventh,  brother  Fownes,  being  come 
from  London,  but  not  daring  to  come  into  the  city  because 
of  the  Corporation  Act,  met  with  us,  and  preached  in  Kings- 
wood,  near  Scruze  Hole,  under  a  tree,  and  endured  the 
rain. 


458  THE    RECORDS 

On  the  15th,  lecture  day,  brother  John  Sparling,  from 
Ireland,  preached  to  us  in  peace,  in  Gassen  Lanes. 

On  the  18  th,  being  Lord's  day,  brother  Fownes  preached 
to  us  again  in  Kingswood,  in  peace,  though  on  Brislington- 
side  there  was  a  company  of  train-bands  out  to  find  meetings. 

On  the  22nd,  we  gave  warning  to  our  landlord,  Tovey, 
that  we  should  leave  our  meeting-house,  being  kept  out  of  it 
by  force. 

On  the  25th  our  pastor  preached  to  us  in  Kingswood  in 
peace. 

On  the  28th  Daniel  Barnett  was  baptized. 

On  the  second  July,  Lord's  day,  our  pastor  preached  in 
another  place  in  the  wood.  Our  friends  took  much  pains  in 
the  rain,  because  many  informers  were  ordered  out  to  search ; 
and  we  were  in  peace,  though  there  were  near  twenty  men  and 
boys  in  search.  And  afterwards,  the  informers,  missing  of 
the  meetings,  went  to  Lawford's  Gate,  and  took  the  names  of 
some  of  Mr.  Weeks's  people  on  their  return,  and  said  they 
should  pay  for  the  rest. 

On  the  sixth,  sister  Sarah  Lord,  daughter  to  sister  Young, 
was  interred  at  our  burying-place. 

On  the  ninth,  being  Lord's  day,  brother  Fownes  preached 
in  one  place  of  the  wood,  and  brother  Whinnell  in  another, 
and  we  were  in  peace.  Thomas  Powell,  Justice  Meredith's 
man,  and  Cossil,  the  high  constable,  with  many  constables, 
warned  and  threatened  the  day  before  by  Powell,  rode  and 
walked  about  the  wood  till  they  were  weary ;  and  Powell 
saw  several  of  our  friends  about  Scruze  Hole,  that  had  been 
at  the  meeting,  but  did  not  know  them. 

On  the  13th,  kept  a  day  of  prayer  with  Mr.  Fownes  at 
Mr.  Jackson's,  and  were  in  peace. 

On  the  16th,  brother  Fownes  first,  and  brother  Whinnell 
after,  preached  under  a  tree,  it  being  very  rainy.  And  then 
the  church  got  to  Mr.  Young's,  and  brake  bread,  and  several 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  459 

of  the  Castle  people  with  us,  in  peace.  And  so  we  were  on 
the  23rd. 

On  the  30th  we  were  hunted  from  place  to  place  in  the 
wood,  and  our  meeting,  though  our  pastor  and  brother 
Whinnell  escaped,  and  at  times  preached  to  us :  though 
Powell  went  about  having  a  warrant  from  six  justices,  and 
constables  with  him,  but,  through  mercy,  did  only  hunt  us, 
and  a  multitude  of  people  heard  the  word  notwithstanding. 

On  the  sixth  of  August,  being  Lord's  day,  we  met  in 
Kingswood  twice,  in  two  different  places,  and  our  pastor 
preached  twice  to  us  in  peace,  though  we  were  told  in  the 
morning  great  trouble  would  befall  us  that  day. 

On  the  ninth,  we  had  a  day  of  prayer,  kept  in  the  open 
wood  from  nine  to  four,  where  six  prayed,  and  two  preached, 
our  pastor  one  of  them,  in  peace. 

On  the  13th,  our  pastor  preached  in  the  wood,  and  after- 
wards broke  bread  at  Mr.  Young's  in  peace.  But  Hellier 
and  the  rest  were  busy  that  day,  and  shut  up  the  gates ;  and 
kept  watch  at  the  Weir,  and  behind  St.  Philip's,  in  the 
morning,  to  prevent  any  going  out,  and  in  the  evening  to 
catch  them  coming  in,  and  took  up  several  in  the  evening  as 
vagrants  on  the  Lord's  day,  and  sent  some  to  Newgate,  and 
some  to  Bridewell,  watching  till  seven  in  the  evening  for 
that  purpose. 

On  the  20th,  met  above  Scruze  Hole,  in  our  old  place,  and 
heard  brother  Fownes  preach  twice  in  peace.  Brother 
Terrill  had  caused  a  workman  to  make  banks  on  the  side  of 
the  hill  to  sit  down  on,  several  of  them  like  a  gallery.  And 
there  we  met  also  on  the  27th  in  peace.  And  both  days  we 
sang  a  psalm  in  the  open  wood.  Our  pastor  withdrew  this 
week,  because  of  the  assizes  and  quarter  sessions.  Several 
of  our  brethren  were  fined  this  sessions,  for  being  at  a 
meeting  of  prayer  in  January  last,  some  ten,  and  some 
twenty  shillings,  and  their  fees. 


460  THE    RECORDS 

On  the  sixth  of  September,  the  last  day  of  the  quarter 
sessions,  brother  Terrill  did  not  appear,  according  to  his 
recognizance, — because  Knight  threatened  to  cast  him  in 
prison  on  the  Oxford  Act,  and  [he]  is  therefore  in  danger  of 
being  sued  to  an  outlawry, — having  none  bound  but  himself. 

On  the  14th  kept  a  day  of  prayer  with  our  pastor,  at 
Horfield,  where  the  people  were  surprised  to  see  so  many 
come,  having  not  been  used  to  meetings.  We  were  at  sister 
Coombs's;  and  some  bad  persons  procured  the  officers  to 
disturb  us ;  but  when  they  were  come  to  the  court-yard,  our 
sister  Coombs  went  out  to  them,  and  reasoned  with  them,  so 
that  they  said,  if  they  might  come  and  search  the  house,  so 
they  could  say  there  was  nobody  there,  they  would  go  away 
again.  So  we  all  went  out  at  the  back  door,  and  they 
searched,  and  departed.  And  we  spent  the  day  in  peace,  and 
took  a  declaration  from  Mr.  Foster,  and  Samuel  Hunt 
Taylor,  who  were  both  baptized  by  brother  Jennings,  on  the 
15  th,  at  noon  day. 

On  the  17th  brother  Fownes  preached  first  in  the  wood, 
and  afterwards  broke  bread  at  Mr.  Young's.  Powell  and 
others  were  about  the  wood,  but  were  too  late  for  us ;  but 
met  with  some  of  Mr.  GifFord's  people,  and  threatened  to 
send  them  to  Gloucester  jail,  but  they  could  not  find  ]VIr. 
Gifford.  They  were  near  Mr.  Gardiner,  that  preached  for 
Mr.  Weeks,  but  he  got  over  the  water  at  St.  Ann's,  and 
escaped.  Hellier  and  the  constables  stopped  several  as  they 
were  going  out  of  town  in  the  morning,  and  carried  them 
away  to  prison,  saying  they  were  going  to  rebellious  meet- 
ings.    Mr.  Waliern's  wife  particularly  was  put  in  Newgate. 

On  the  25th,  sister  Moyer  deceased,  and  was  buried  in  our 
burying-place. 

On  the  28th,  Mr.  Burgess  of  Marlborough  preached  to  us, 
near  Scruze  Hole,  in  peace.  It  was  our  lecture  day.  There 
also  we  met  several  other  days,  and  kept  a  day  of  prayer  in 
peace. 


OF   A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  461 

On  the  19th  October,  our  sister  Nicholas,  in  the  Marsh, 
departed,  and  was  buried  in  our  burying-place. 

On  the  22nd,  being  Lord's  day,  our  pastor  preached  in  our 
wood  gallery  in  peace ;  but  Hellier,  Tilly,  &c,  watched  for 
the  people's  coming  back  at  Lawford's  Gate,  &c,  and  caught 
aged  brother  Reeves,  and  a  maid,  and  an  apprentice,  and 
carried  them  to  Newgate  without  mittimus.  And  the  next 
morning,  being  brought  before  the  mayor,  an  oath  was  put  to 
them  to  answer  to  such  questions  as  should  be  put  to  them, 
and  to  say  the  whole  truth,  &c. ;  and  because  the  maid  and 
boy  did  not  answer  fully  as  they  would  have  them,  and  tell 
who  was  at  the  meeting,  and  who  preached,  &c,  they  were 
sent  to  Newgate  again.  At  the  same  time,  also,  they  sent 
for  Mr.  John  Towne,  the  schoolmaster,  from  his  own  house, 
before  the  mayor,  and  offered  to  swear  him  as  an  informer, 
and,  he  refusing,  sent  him  to  Newgate  by  a  mittimus. 

On  fifth  November,  Lord's  day,  there  being  a  very  severe 
warrant,  under  the  hands  of  four  justices,  given  to  search  for 
meetings,  we  met  beyond  Conham,  and  our  pastor  preached 
in  peace.     Laus  Deo. 

On  the  16th  day  we  met  in  peace,  and  Mr.  Fownes 
preached  in  Conham  House,  which  we  had  lately  taken  for 
that  end,  and  to  break  bread  in,  and  keep  days  of  prayer,  as 
also  to  shelter  [us]  from  rain.  We  had  all  this  while  met 
for  prayer  at  some  of  our  friend's  houses,  on  every  Tuesday 
night,  and  now  ventured,  on  the  23rd,  to  keep  our  lecture  at 
brother  Bodenham's  in  the  castle,  he  having  lately  married 
Mrs.  Ewins,  widow  to  John,  our  former  pastor's  son. 

On  the  26th,  we  met  at  our  usual  place,  but  were  dis- 
turbed by  Powell,  Justice  Meredith's  clerk,  who  hunted 
through  the  wood,  principally  in  hopes  of  catching  Mr. 
Weeks,  who  had  by  Habeas  Corpus  been  moved  to  London, 
and  there  lately  discharged  at  the  King's  Bench  bar. 

On  the  seventh  of  December,  we  met  for  our  lecture  at 


462  THE    RECORDS 

Mr.  Shuter's  on  Redcliff  Hill  in  peace,  taking  a  great  deal 
of  care  in  going  and  coming,  the  women  wearing  neither 
white  aprons  nor  pattens. 

On  Saturday,  the  16th,  sister  Joan  Wheeler  was  baptized  by 
Mr.  Fownes  at  Mr.  Young's,  and  was  received  the  next  day 
at  Conham  House,  where  we  had  the  Lord's  supper.  And 
there,  on  the  26th,  we  had  a  day  of  prayer  in  peace,  blessed 
be  God !  and  not  like  this  day  twelve  months,  when  twenty 
were  sent  to  prison,  and  he  that  was  at  prayer  had  £20 
worth  of  goods  taken  from  him. 

On  the  30th,  sister  Joan  Rawlings  deceased. 

On  the  11th  January,  at  Conham-house,  which  we  had 
taken  for  two  years,  being  a  day  of  prayer,  we  gave  brother 
Jennings  a  letter  of  recommendation  to  the  church  at 
Sodbury. 

On  the  14th  January,  1682-3,  being  Lord's  day,  we  met 
at  our  usual  place  in  the  wood  at  nine  in  the  morning,  and 
broke  up  at  eleven,  having  intelligence  of  our  enemies'  design 
to  come  at  twelve.  And  accordingly  three  justices,  Sir  John 
Newton,  Player,  and  Meredith,  with  about  ten  more  officers, 
on  horseback,  rode  along  the  wood  by  the  river's  side  to  search 
for  us;  but  all  were  gone,  so  that  they  found  none  of  the 
three  meetings.  Several  officers  also  out  of  the  city,  with 
Ralph  Ollive,  came  to  help  them,  and  as  Ollive  returned  he 
met  with  a  youth,  William  Ricketts,  belonging  to  us,  and 
began  to  charge  him  for  being  at  a  meeting ;  but  two  young 
fellows,  colliers,  hearing,  threatened  him  if  he  spoke  another 
word ;  so  he  pulled  off  his  hat,  being  afraid,  and  went  away. 
Laus  Deo.  And  in  the  evening  the  church  met  at  Mr. 
Young's,  and  broke  bread  in  peace. 

On  the  21st,  we  met  at  eight  in  the  morning,  and  though 
there  were  seven  on  horseback  and  twenty  on  foot  to  seek 
after  us,  we  escaped,  having  broke  up  at  ten.  Mr.  Weeks's 
and  Mr.  Gilford's  people  met  on  the  other  side  the  river,  so 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  463 

the  informers  saw  them  but  could  not  come  at  them.  But 
Ollive  and  his  company  took  some  of  our  friends  coming  into 
town,  and  several  of  Mr.  Wey's  people  coming  from  Durdham 
Down,  as  Dr.  Chauncey's  wife,  Ben.  Wey,  Mr.  Williamson, 
widow  Tyes  and  her  daughter,  Mr.  Young's  son  and  daughter, 
whom  they  put  in  Bridewell,  and  bringing  them  before  the 
mayor  next  morning,  bound  them  over  to  the  quarter  sessions. 
They  took  also  Mrs.  Snead  and  Mrs.  Burges,  but  did  not  put 
them  in  Bridewell. 

On  the  22d,  Watkins  and  several  constables  searched  Mrs. 
Martin's  house,  and  looked  into  a  great  chest,  to  find  Mr. 
Fownes,  and  other  houses  to  find  one  that  was  forced  to  lay 
down  his  trade  in  Broad  Street  by  reason  of  persecution, 
against  whom  there  was  a  writ  de  excommunicato  capiendo,  and 
they  searched  Jno.  Towne's,  who  had  been  obliged  to  move 
out  of  the  liberty  of  the  city  to  save  himself;  but  they  found 
none  of  them,  for  they  were  gone.  There  were  also  in  their 
warrant,  brethren  Terrill,  Weeks,  Gifford,  and  many  others. 
We  therefore  sent  to  brother  Fownes  to  withdraw  further  off, 
and  let  us  know  where,  that  we  might  send  to  him  to  let  him 
know  our  state. 

On  the  28th  there  was  great  hunting  for  us  all  over  the 
wood  by  horse  and  foot,  but  Mr.  Gifford  and  Weeks  met  on 
the  other  side  the  river,  betimes  in  the  morning ;  and  we  did 
not  meet  till  four  in  the  afternoon,  and  were  through  mercy  in 
peace. 

On  the  2nd  Feb.,  sister  Ship  of  Woolland  deceased,  and  was 
buried  there. 

On  the  4th,  got  a  meeting  in  the  evening  in  Gassen  Lanes, 
with  great  difficulty,  because  of  our  many  enemies. 

On  Wednesday,  the  7th,  our  pastor  preached  to  us  at  Mr. 
Young's  ;  there  was  a  great  meeting,  and  not  discovered.  He 
also  preached  to  us  on  the  11th,  beyond  Stapleton  Bridge,  in 
peace.     And  on  the  loth,  we  kept  a  day  of  prayer  at  Conham 


464  THE    RECORDS 

House,  where  also  we  met  on  the  18th,  being  Lord's  day,  and 
brother  Fownes  preached,  and  administered  the  supper  to  us 
and  some  of  the  Castle  people,  it  being  a  very  wet  day. 

On  the  25th,  brother  Fownes  preached  to  us  near  the 
Gassen  Lanes  in  peace,  and  none  of  the  meetings  were  dis- 
turbed. The  week  before,  at  the  petty  sessions,  the  justices 
had  commended  the  constables  for  their  diligence,  so  now  they 
were  willing  to  rest  a  little.  We  now  began  to  go  into  the 
fields  again  for  our  lectures. 

On  the  4th  of  March,  brother  Fownes  preached  to  us  in 
Kingswood  in  peace ;  but  Mr.  Hart  going  by  towards 
Hanham,  and  seeing  some  of  the  people,  wished  for  a  justice 
of  peace.  And  four  women  and  a  man  were  taken  coming 
into  the  city,  and  carried  before  the  mayor,  who  made  the 
women  pay  some  a  crown,  and  some  half-a-crown,  and  ordered 
the  man  to  appear  again  on  Friday. 

On  the  11th,  we  began  to  meet  beyond  Stapleton  Bridge, 
but  the  tithing-man  came,  and  said  he  must  disturb  us  if  we 
did,  so  we  went  elsewhere,  and  four  officers  of  Stapleton 
came,  but  we  were  out  of  their  bounds.  This  morning  brother 
John  Robinson  departed,  near  eighty  years  old. 

On  the  15th,  being  a  day  of  prayer,  our  pastor,  knowing 
that  several  of  Mr.  Weeks's  people  had  conformed,  did  at 
Conham  House  ask  two  questions:  1st.  Whether  we  did  not 
stand  in  the  same  relation,  and  own  the  same  principles,  as  at 
first? — and  2nd.  Whether  any  were  otherwise  minded? 
desiring  they  that  were  might  speak  ;  but  there  was  silence. 
Though  the  assizes  were  then  at  Bristol,  when  we  were  liable 
to  pay  20/.  a  month  for  nonconformity,  we  were  helped  to 
trust  God.  There  were  twenty-six  brethren  besides  sisters 
there,  and  not  one  was  for  conforming.  We  had  been  taken 
by  the  informers  from  the  city  at  this  meeting,  if  one  Pegler's 
son  had  not  run  another  way,  and  come  to  us  before  the 
informers,  to  give  us  notice.     This  week  about  a  hundred  and 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  465 

fifty  dissenters  were  convicted  by  our  recorder,  on  the  statute  of 
the  23rd  Elizabeth,  for  201  a  month,  for  not  coming  to  church. 

On  the  18th  March,  brother  Fownes  preached  to  us  in  the 
wood  in  peace,  and  afterwards  broke  bread,  and  sung  a  hymn 
at  Conham-house,  though  Ollive  had  threatened  to  bring  some 
troopers  and  carry  us  to  Gloucester  jail ;  and  there  were  ten 
of  Oxford's  troop  passed  from  Bath  to  Bristol,  and  said  to 
some,  "We  will  be  with  you  by  and  by,  and  shall  know  in  the 
city  where  you  hold  forth  to-day."  Yet  we  were  in  peace. 
Laus  Deo. 

Our  pastor  having  been  much  afflicted  with  the  stone  for 
two  days,  and  this  morning  very  ill,  yet  sent  to  us  on  the  25th 
into  the  wood  to  begin,  and  he  would  be  with  us  quickly. 
Accordingly  he  came,  but  after  three-quarters  of  an  hour  we 
were  surrounded  by  horse  and  foot,  the  former  in  ambush. 
Brother  Fownes  got  on  horseback,  which  one  of  the  informers 
from  a  hill  seeing,  made  a  signal  to  the  horse  in  ambush  to 
pursue ;  but  they  had  not  found  him,  if  a  countryman  had  not 
innocently  told  them  which  way  he  was  gone.  So  they  over- 
took and  kept  him,  by  Justice  Player's  command,  at  a  collier's 
all  night.  And  afterwards  said  justice  sent  a  warrant  to  bring 
him  next  day,  at  two  in  the  afternoon,  to  Newton's  Arms  in 
London  Road,  where  Player,  Newton,  and  Meredith  made  his 
mittimus  to  Gloucester  jail  for  six  months,  on  the  Oxford  Act; 
and  seeing  brother  Dickason  there,  they  bound  him  over  to 
the  assizes,  because  the  informers  said  he  had  been  at  a  meet- 
ing with  a  thousand  people.  Some  others  also  of  our  friends 
being  present  were  forced  to  steal  away,  else  they  would  have 
been  bound  over.  The  text  brother  Fownes  had  been  preach- 
ing from,  was  2  Tim.  ii.  9.  Thomas  Ross,  the  tithing-man 
for  Bitton,  let  brother  Fownes  go  and  lodge  a  night  at  Mr. 
Wickham's,  and  also  gave  Mr.  Wickham  the  mittimus  to  take 
Mr.  Fownes  to  jail,  with  whom  some  of  our  friends  went  also 
for  company. 

H    H 


466  THE    RECORDS 


Axxo  1683. 

April  2nd,  we  met  at  five  in  the  morning,  and  changed  our 
lecture  day  from  Thursday  to  Friday  morning.  Brother 
Whinnell  preached  to  us  in  peace. 

On  the  11th,  a  day  of  prayer,  being  a  very  wet  day,  widow 
Baldwin  gave  us  leave  to  meet  in  her  outhouses,  and  we  were 
in  peace.  But  now  Justice  Player  being  exceeding  fierce 
against  us,  had  granted  warrants  to  take  twenty-eight  to 
Gloucester  sessions.  Therefore,  on  the  15th,  we  met  on  the 
other  side  the  river,  where  the  justices  were  not  so  active. 
But  now  Hellier  was  made  under-sheriff  of  Somersetshire,  and 
being  on  horseback,  with  a  pair  of  pistols  before  him,  and 
having  got  some  bailiffs  and  constables,  came  upon  us  while 
brother  Whinnell  was  preaching  near  Brislington  Common, 
and  lays  hold  on  several,  but  Mr.  Whinnell  escaped.  He 
ordered  one  of  his  men  to  lay  hold  on  Mr.  Terrill,  and  being 
asked,  Which  was  he  ?  he  said,  "He  in  the  black  hat."  Which 
that  day  proved  to  be  wrong,  so  he  also  escaped.  But  they 
took  several,  and  had  them  to  a  little  house  on  the  common, 
and  some  to  an  ale-house  not  far  off,  where  some  got  away 
again;  but  seven,  viz.,  brother  Ellis,  two  servant-men,  and  four 
women,  were  brought  to  a  bailiff's  house  at  Whitchurch,  and 
carried  the  next  morning  before  Justice  Langton. 

When  these  were  in  custody,  Hellier  went  to  find  Mr. 
Weeks's  people,  who  were  not  far  off,  and  the  while  dispersed. 
But  meeting  again  in  the  afternoon,  Hellier  came  upon  them, 
and  they,  many  of  them,  got  over  the  water.  Then  Hellier 
waved  his  hat  for  Ollive  and  his  crew  to  pursue  them  on 
Gloucestershire-side ;  which  they  did,  and  made  the  officers 
of  the  hundred  go  with  them,  against  their  wills.  So  Tilly 
met  with  Mr.  David  Phillips,  and  would  have  five  shillings  of 
him.     The  rest  of  the  gang  espied  Mr.  Knight,  a  minister 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  467 

from  Taunton,  and  Mr.  Ford,  a  mercer  in  High  Street,  and 
pursued  them  about  half  a  mile.  Whereupon  Mr.  Ford  and 
he  being  tired,  and  not  likely  to  escape,  and  seeing  the  river 
low,  ventured  to  cross  it :  for  they  that  pursued  them  made  a 
sad  noise,  as  if  they  were  hunting,  crying,  "Knock  them  down." 
So  that  the  cattle  ran  about  the  wood,  and  some  at  a  distance 
thought  they  were  hunting  a  deer.  Mr.  Ford  went  in  first, 
and  Mr.  Knight  after  him  ;  but  seeing  Mr.  Ford,  either  by 
the  slipping  of  his  foot  or  depth  of  water,  sinking,  cried  out 
for  help,  and  though  many  on  the  other  side  saw  it,  they 
would  not  help.  But  on  Gloucester-side,  a  collier  with  a  child 
in  his  arms  laid  it  down,  and  running  in  caught  Mr.  Knight, 
and  with  much  ado  plucked  him  out,  and  called  to  Watkins, 
the  marshal,  to  come  and  help  him,  but  he  would  not.  Mr. 
Ford  having  no  help  was  drowned  :  which  Ollive  and  his  crew 
seeing  went  away. 

Then  some  of  the  colliers  carried  the  minister  to  Mr.  L. 
Fox's,  in  Pill  Marsh,  where  by  a  warm  bed  and  other  means 
he  was  recovered.  And  the  wicked  persecutors  hearing  of  it, 
came  and  beset  the  house,  demanding  the  minister,  that  they 
might  carry  him  to  prison  ;  but  Mr.  Fox  barred  them  out,  and 
when  they  were  gone  conveyed  him  to  another  house,  so  when 
they  came  afterwards  again,  with  a  warrant,  and  searched  Mr. 
Fox's  house,  they  could  not  find  him.  Then,  to  cover  the 
wickedness  in  pursuing  them,  they  raised  a  lie,  and  said  the 
minister  killed  Mr.  Ford,  and  they  would  have  a  hue  and  cry 
after  the  minister.  Others  said  Mr.  Ford  drowned  himself; 
but  his  body  being  found  that  evening,  the  coroner,  Mr.  Chain 
of  Cham,  was  sent  for.  And  the  next  day  he  came,  and  about 
three  impannelled  a  jury  of  nineteen.  Eight  witnesses  swore 
they  saw  them  pursued,  and  that  they  cried,  "  Knock  them 
down  :"  and  Stone  pursued  into  the  very  water.  The  coroner 
adjourned  until  seven  the  next  morning,  April  17,  when  the 
nineteen  brought  in  their  verdict: — "That  William  Stone  as 

H  H  2 


468  THE    RECORDS 

principal,  and  Walter  Watkins  and  John  Hore  as  accessories, 
were  the  cause  of  Mr.  Ford's  death."  And  fifteen  of  the  jury 
subscribed  the  said  verdict.  The  coroner  being  satisfied,  said 
it  was  enough  if  but  twelve  had  signed,  therefore  issued  his 
warrants  for  the  taking  those  three  men,  and  desired  the  mayor 
of  Bristol  to  do  the  same:  but  he  refused.  So  the  coroner 
sent  a  hue  and  cry,  and  afterwards  a  second,  and  Hore  was 
found  by  Mary  port  constables,  and  brought  before  Alderman 
Ollive.  But  the  man  was  let  go  again,  and  nothing  done  for 
the  present. 

And  now  to  return  to  the  nine  friends  carried  before  Justice 
Langton.  It  was  said  he  would  have  bound  them  over  to  the 
quarter  sessions :  not  those  that  were  to  be  on  the  morrow,  but 
the  next  after.  But  Hellier  wrote  a  letter  to  him,  requiring 
him  to  bind  them  to  appear  the  present  sessions  at  Ilchester, 
and  so  he  did.  Wherefore  those  poor  souls,  some  aged  and 
feeble,  and  others  poor,  were  forced  to  go  as  they  could  those 
thirty  miles,  and  before  they  came  Hellier  had  indicted  them 
for  a  riot.  So  when  they  came  on  the  17th,  the  grand  jury 
found  the  bill.  They  were  all  strangers;  the  counsel  that 
was  sent  to  appear  for  them  being  gone  out  of  town.  And 
Hellier  laid  great  and  grievous  things  to  their  charge,  as 
rebels,  and  dangerous  to  the  government ;  that  they  went  into 
the  country,  broke  men's  hedges,  trampled  ont  heir  corn,  threw 
open  their  gates,  &c.  The  justices  asked  them,  whether  they 
would  traverse  or  submit.  They  said  the  latter,  not  knowing 
the  issue.  Then  they  asked  them,  whether  they  would  go  to 
church  and  receive  the  sacrament  at  Whitsuntide,  and  bring 
a  certificate  of  their  so  doing ;  if  they  would  they  should  be 
cleared,  or  else  be  fined  twenty  marks  apiece.  They  desired 
some  time  to  consider  of  it.  But  Hellier  aggravated  the 
matter.  Then  they  said  they  would  go  to  church.  "  Oh  !" 
says  Hellier,  "  they  call  their  conventicles  the  church."  So 
the  justices  fined  them  twenty  marks  each,  which  for  the  nine 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  469 

made  120/.,  and  to  lie  in  prison  until  it  was  paid.  Thus  our 
friends  were  cast  into  prison ;  but  Mr.  Dunning,  late  sheriff  of 
Bristol,  rode  down  and  got  off  his  cousin  Grant.  Mr.  Dole- 
man's  servant,  and  two  other  servants,  promised  to  go  to 
church,  and  so  got  out  of  prison.  But  these  six,  sister  Smith, 
sister  Dennis,  and  sister  Hughes,  widow,  our  members;  sister 
Sarah  Lewis,  Mr.  Gifford's  member ;  brother  Ellis's  son,  and 
Mrs.  Eliza  Butler,  hearers,  lay  there  still. 

On  the  22nd,  being  Lord's  clay,  our  persecutors  said  they 
would  have  thirty  of  each  side  of  the  water,  and  would  imprison 
every  man  of  us,  and  make  us  go  through  fire  and  water 
This  rage  was  occasioned  by  the  jury's  verdict  about  Mr. 
Ford,  as  above.  But  we  went  out  at  four  in  the  morning, 
and  were  in  peace ;  and  so  were  the  other  congregations  that 
day.     Blessed  be  God. 

On  Monday,  the  23rd  of  April,  1683,  we  kept  a  day  of 
fasting  and  prayer,  partly  on  account  of  Mr.  Young,  who  had 
lately  turned  from  being  parson  of  Brislington  to  preach 
among  the  dissenters,  principally  Mr.  "VYeeks's  people.  And 
last  week  he  went  to  Gloucester  to  see  Mr.  Fownes  in  prison 
there,  and  it  being  sessions'  time  Ralph  Ollive  went  there  to 
prosecute  brother  Dickason,  and  spied  Mr.  Young  riding  into 
the  city,  so  he  dogged  him.  And  having  seen  where  he  put  up 
his  horse,  and  getting  a  warrant,  comes  after  him  into  the 
prison,  and  took  him  before  a  justice,  and  swore  that  he  heard 
him  within  two  years  past  preach  at  a  conventicle  in  the 
fields :  wherefore  a  justice  committed  him  for  six  months  by 
the  Five  Mile  Act.  And  at  the  same  time  Ollive  swore 
against  brother  Dickason,  that  he  saw  him  at  a  conventicle 
with  a  thousand  people,  so  he  was  forced  to  traverse,  and  was 
bound  to  appear  next  sessions- 

On  the  29th,  we  met  near  Roe  Gate,  but  the  informers 
came  upon  us,  and  took  some  names  but  no  persons.  We 
afterwards  met  in  another  place  in  peace.     And  the  hue  and 


470  THE    RECORDS 

cry  being  still  out  against  Watkina  and  Hore,  Smith  the 
constable  took  them  both  at  an  ale-house,  after  they  returned 
from  us,  and  kept  them  all  night  in  custody,  and  the  next 
day  brought  them  before  Justice  Newton.  But  before  they 
came  Ollive's  party  had  been  with  the  justice,  and  told  him 
they  had  been  before  a  justice  in  the  city,  and  he  had  took 
bail  for  them ;  so  Newton  let  them  go.  And  Watkins,  the 
marshal,  accused  said  Smith  of  having  the  minister  that  was 
almost  drowned  in  custody,  and  letting  him  go,  which  was 
false ;  but  the  justice  bound  Smith  to  his  good  behaviour. 
And  Mr.  James  Holloway,  merchant,  being  there  as  a  spec- 
tator, Ollive  offered  to  swear  he  had  seen  him  at  a  meeting : 
so  the  justice  bound  him  over  to  Gloucester  sessions.  Where- 
upon the  informers  vaunted  what  they  would  do,  and  the  next 
day  went  and  knocked  boldly  at  Mr.  Terrill's  gate,  who  was 
in  the  house  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before,  and  was  then 
in  the  backside.  His  brother-in-law  Liston  went  to  the  door, 
and  seeing  Watkins,  spoke  roughly,  and  said  he  was  there 
that  day,  but  lived  out  of  town  ;  which  was  a  gracious  provi- 
dence. Mr.  Terrill  knew  nothing  of  it,  and  if  the  maid, 
being  a  stranger,  had  went  to  the  door,  he  had  been  taken 
then.  Then  they  went  and  searched  Mr.  Young's  and  Mr. 
Jacob's  houses,  pretending  a  meeting  there ;  but  found  not 
the  men.  And  they  afterwards  watched  at  Mr.  Terrill's 
back  door  in  the  evenings,  and  in  other  places,  hoping  to 
catch  him,  or  Mr.  GifFord,  &c. 

May  sixth,  being  Lord's  day,  we  met  near  Stapleton 
bridge ;  but  the  said  Watkins  and  others  went  to  Stapleton, 
and  obliged  the  officers  thereof  to  come  and  disperse  us,  though 
afterwards  we  met  in  the  wood  in  peace. 

On  the  tenth,  we  met  at  Conham-house  for  a  day  of  prayer, 
getting  to  it  round  by  London  Road ;  and  a  man  with  a  bill,  a 
secret  informer,  followed  the  people ;  but  a  neighbour  seeing 
him,  laid  the  evil  of  it  so  before  him  that  he  went  away,  and 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  471 

we  were  in  peace.  We  there  had  letters  from  brother 
Fownes  at  Gloucester,  and  [from]  those  also  at  Ilchester 
jail.  And  there  being  a  warrant  out  against  Mr.  Whinnell, 
which  had  obliged  him  the  week  before  to  leave  his  school,  it 
was  proposed,  whether  we  should  dismiss  him  to  get  his  living 
elsewhere,  or  raise  something  for  his  support.  So  we  sub- 
scribed for  twenty  pounds  per  annum  for  him.  Mr.  Knight, 
the  minister,  is  dead ;  never  well  since  he  was  in  the 
water. 

On  the  13th,  being  Lord's  day,  brother  Gifford  narrowly 
escaped  being  taken  by  the  informers,  near  the  close  of  his 
sermon.  Mr.  Bailey  was  taken,  and  Mr.  Wickham  noted ; 
we  met  further  in  the  wood  in  peace.  This  day  sister  Kim- 
ber  died,  being  taken  sick  on  the  same  day  on  which,  a 
month  before,  she  had  conformed,  and  received  the  sacrament 
at  'TEwins's  church.  The  next  week  Hellier  went  to  Lon- 
don to  take  out  five  hundred  writs  for  Bristol,  for  twenty 
pounds  a  month,  &c. 

On  the  23rd,  we  kept  a  day  of  prayer,  as  we  had  for  some 
time  done  every  other  week,  and,  had  there  a  letter  to  [from] 
our  pastor  in  answer  to  some  queries,  particularly,  whether  we 
should  meet  publicly,  or  a  few  together  in  several  places. 
Our  pastor  showed  it  was  our  duty  to  meet  publicly,  and  not 
refrain  for  fear  of  threats  till  we  were  made  to  cease  by  force 
and  power,  Ezra  iv.  23,  and  until  the  church  did  agree  to 
meet  in  small  numbers.  But  in  the  meantime  it  was  the 
duty  of  every  member  to  attend  the  church-meetings. 
Mr.  Weeks's  people  met  on  Brislingt on-side,  and  were 
troubled.  We  sent  messengers  to  some  that  had  not 
been  with  us  of  late  in  the  fields,  as  brother  Davis, 
Kemp,  and  Bland,  and  they  were  with  us  on  the  31st, 
a  day  of  prayer  kept  in  peace  at  Conham-house.  We  had 
now  more  peace  in  general,  which  we  wonder  at  and  look 
upon  as  the  Lord's  check  on  their  spirits.     Jasper  Cause,  one 


472  THE    RECORDS 

of  the  busy  constables,  is  cast  into  prison  for  debt.  Another 
stole,  and  is  run  away.  One  Sweeper,  a  constable,  died,  and 
on  his  death-bed  sent  for  some  of  his  companions,  and 
warned  them  against  meddling  with  dissenters.  A  bailiff 
that  helped  to  carry  our  friends  to  Ilchester,  and  used  re- 
proachful words,  is  taken  up  by  hue  and  cry  for  killing  a 
man. 

July  the  7th.  On  this  day  near  twenty  friends  were 
summoned  before  the  mayor,  and  bound  over  to  appear  at 
Gloucester  sessions,  next  week:  viz.  brother  Bodenham, 
Messenger,  Day,  Courtney;  of  Mr,  Weeks's  people,  Mr. 
Chock,  Jacob,  Nath.  Ball,  junior,  Mr.  Biyan,  senior,  and 
many  more.  Brother  Dickason  had  now  his  trial,  and  was 
fined  twenty  marks,  and  to  lie  in  prison  till  paid.  The  rest 
were  willing  to  traverse,  and  so  were  bound  with  sureties, 
£60  for  each,  to  appear  next  quarter  sessions,  and  in  the 
meantime  to  be  of  good  behaviour.  On  the  22nd  and  29th, 
being  Lord's  days,  the  trained  bands  were  placed  at  the  gates 
to  prevent  friends  going  out  of  the  city ;  but  on  the  29th, 
some  got  out  the  night  before,  and  had  a  meeting  in  the  wood. 

July  27,  1683.  Brother  John  Pritchard  died,  and  was 
buried  in  our  burying-place. 

On  the  12th  of  August,  we  met  in  a  shady  gully,  and 
brother  Whinnell  preached ;  but  some  constables  of  Barton 
Hundred  came  upon  us,  and  seized  brother  Hunt's  aged 
father,  and  brother  John  Fry ;  and  laid  hands  on  two  more, 
who  promised  them  five  shillings  apiece :  so  they  let  them 
go.  One  of  the  constables,  Thos.  Smith,  had  been  one  of 
Mr.  Weeks's  people. 

At  Gloucester  assizes,  Watkins  and  Hore  had  a  bill 
found  against  them  by  the  grand  jury,  as  guilty  of 
the  murder  of  Mr.  Ford,  being  prosecuted  by  his  widow: 
and  Tilly  and  Lugg  were  found  guilty  by  the  grand 
jury  as  accessories:  so  they  were  all  arraigned.  But 
the  judge    directed  the   petty  jury  to  clear  them,  the  Lord 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  473 

Herbert  sitting  by  and  whispering  ;  and  the  coroner  also  was 
checked.  Two  of  the  four  witnesses  bound  to  prosecute,  it 
was  thought,  were  bribed,  and  would  not  say  so  much  as  they 
had  done  before  the  coroner,  who  told  the  judge  so,  and  said 
also  he  could  have  brought  many  more  witnesses,  but  thought 
four  sufficient. 

On  the  19th,  we  met  on  Somersetshire-side,  and  brother 
Whinnell  preached,  in  peace.  This  evening  Ollive  and  his 
companions,  eighteen  in  all,  searched  Mr.  Gifford's  house  for 
him,  and  Mr.  Young's:  first  under  pretence  of  finding  a 
meeting,  and  afterwards  for  arms ;  and  made  them  open  every 
box  and  chest,  and  tumbled  their  linen,  calling  Mr.  Young, 
"  perjured  rogue,"  because  he  was  foreman  of  the  coroner's 
jury  about  Mr.  Ford. 

On  the  26  th,  met  in  Kings  wood  in  peace,  though  there 
were  twenty  out  in  search  of  us ;  but  brother  Gifford's 
people  met  on  the  other  side  of  the  water,  and  had  but  very 
little  notice  of  Watkins  and  his  company;  but  Mr.  Gifford 
and  a  few  more  got  over  in  the  boat,  and  were  not  over  before 
Watkins  came  to  the  water-side.  And  no  sooner  was  he 
over,  and  got  up  in  the  wood,  but  Ollive  and  his  gang  came  ; 
but  he  escaped,  and  a  mile  off  in  the  wood  kept  a  meeting 
with  those  that  got  to  him.  Mr.  Weeks's  people,  though 
he  was  not  in  prison,  had  laid  clown  their  meetings  for  two 
months.  There  was  no  public  meeting  but  ours  and  Mr. 
Gifford's.  The  day  above  mentioned,  they  took  the  names  of 
eighteen  of  Mr.  Gifford's  people,  and  told  Mr.  Crotch  they 
must  go  next  sessions  to  Ilchester. 

On  the  28th,  sister  Dickason  died.  When  she  was  sick, 
they  sent  for  her  husband  in  Gloucester  jail ;  but  they  would 
not  let  him  come.  When  dead,  some  offered  to  be  bound  for 
him,  body  for  body  ;  but  they  would  not  let  him  come  till  he 
had  paid  his  fine  and  charge,  eighteen  pounds ;  so  the  poor 
man  came  and  buried  his  wife  on  the  31st. 


474  THE    RECORDS 

On  2nd  September  met  in  peace ;  but  the  constables  met 
with  brother  Hutton  and  his  wife,  and  brother  Hall,  and 
would  have  had  five  shillings  apiece;  but  they  spent  about 
two  shillings  on  them  at  an  ale-house,  and  they  let  them  go. 
Brother  Terrill  stayed  a  little  behind  them,  and  escaped. 
The  same  officers  disturbed  brother  Gifford's  meeting,  and 
had  liked  to  have  caught  Mr.  Gifford,  They  met  with 
brethren  Adlam,  Bright,  &c.  and  made  them  pay.  Stone, 
made  a  weigher,  died  of  the  small-pox  about  fourteen  days 
after  he  had  been  arraigned  at  Gloucester.  The  quakers  had, 
some  of  them,  met  in  their  houses  of  meeting  of  late,  and 
the  informers  did  not  seem  to  take  notice  of  them.  On  the 
ninth  of  September  they  met  both  morning  and  afternoon ; 
but  Ollive  and  Lugg  came  on  them  in  the  afternoon,  and 
took  thirty-five  of  them  to  prison,  and  the  next  day  went  to 
their  houses  with  warrants,  and  took  away  their  goods,  parti- 
cularly from  Mr.  Jones,  and  Haggatt,  the  grocer. 

On  the  15th,  they  met  with  poor  old  Austin  Crow,  and 
having  him  before  Alderman  Ollive,  who  was  this  day  chosen 
mayor,  they  accused  him  of  giving  notice  to  the  meetings 
when  the  informers  were  coming,  of  helping  Mr.  Gifford  to 
escape,  and  being  witness  against  the  king's  evidence;  and 
so  they  hauled  him  away  to  Newgate. 

On  the  16th,  some  of  our  people  coming  too  late  into  the 
wood,  fell  into  our  persecutors'  hands,  who  took  them  to  the 
Sun  ale-house,  without  Lawford's  Gate,  kept  them  till 
evening,  made  them  pay  five  shillings  apiece,  and  so  let  them 
go.  The  next  day  being  petty  sessions,  the  justices  having 
heard  they  got  forty  shillings  of  our  people  and  Mr.  Gif- 
ford's, whom  they  seized  on  the  Weir,  coming  to  town, 
asked  them  for  the  money,  and  were  answered  that  twelve 
shillings  and  fourpence  of  it  was  spent.  Therefore  the 
justices  checked  them,  and  bid  bring  either  the  money  or  the 
persons.      Our  meeting  was  disturbed,  and  Mrs.  Laurence, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  475 

and  two  young  men  of  Mr.  GifFord's  people,  were  carried  to 
Bridewell.  Sister  Rose  Teague,  Mrs.  Allen,  sister  Sterry, 
and  Mrs.  Clark's  maid,  were  made  to  pay  five  shillings 
apiece. 

On  the  23rd,  some  of  our  friends  that  came  late  into  the 
wood  were  spied  by  their  enemies ;  but  by  running  escaped, 
except  brother  Joseph  Clark,  and  sister  Buckland.  She  was 
lately  come  out  of  Ilchester  gaol,  where  twenty  marks  and 
charges  had  been  paid  for  her.  They,  refusing  to  pay  five 
shillings  apiece,  were  carried  prisoners  to  the  Sun  ale-house, 
and  the  next  morning  carried  before  Newton  and  other 
justices,  who  discharged  them. 

On  the  30th,  after  four  hours'  search,  the  enemies  found 
some  of  our  people  in  their  return  from  our  meeting,  and 
took  their  names,  but  let  them  go.  They  boasted  afterwards 
that  they  had  got  twenty  names,  and  would  indict  them  for  a 
riot  at  Gloucester  sessions,  and  that  they  were  very  glad  they 
had  got  their  godfather's  daughter,  meaning  Mary  Young. 
Ollive,  now  made  mayor,  threatened  what  he  would  do,  and 
so  did  his  son  in  his  father's  mayoralty,  but  on  the  29th  he 
died.  Our  pastor  is  still  kept  in  prison,  though  his  six 
months,  according  to  law,  are  expired. 

On  the  26th  of  October,  sister  Martha  Ridley  departed 
this  life.     She  was  our  benefactor  Robinson's  daughter. 

On  the  28th  day,  some  of  our  friends  were  taken  in  their 
return,  and  made  to  pay  money  ;  but  sister  England,  and 
Mr.  Bodenham's  maid,  being  taken  in  the  city,  would  not 
pay ;  therefore  being  carried  to  Bridewell  all  night,  were 
brought  before  the  mayor  next  morning,  who  asked  sister 
England,  Whether  she  was  at  a  meeting?  She  said,  She 
was  not  bound  to  accuse  herself.  "  See,"  says  he,  "  how  they 
are  taught."  Then  he  asked,  Whether  she  had  been  at 
church  ?  She  not  readily  answering,  the  town  clerk  would 
have  her  sent  away  for  not  answering ;  so  she  said,  She  was 


476  THE    RECORDS 

not.  So  they  were  bid  to  pay  one  shilling  apiece,  and 
were  discharged.  Several  the  same  day  paid  five  shillings 
apiece.  Brother  Ellis  was  caught  by  them,  but  let  go  again. 
Brethren  Whinnell  and  Terrill  narrowly  escaped. 

On  the  first  of  November,  four  horsemen  were  out  after 
us  in  the  wood ;  but  we  having  intelligence  before  they  came, 
got  over  to  the  other  side,  and  were  in  peace.  On  this  day, 
being  Lord's  day,  we  met  on  the  other  side  of  the  water,  and 
were  in  peace.  Brother  Whinnell  preached.  But  when  we 
had  done,  heard  of  three  on  horseback,  and  others  on  foot, 
coming  towards  us,  and  we  generally  escaped ;  but  two  men 
of  Brislington,  that  had  been  with  us,  fell  into  their  hands, 
and  they  made  them  promise  to  appear  at  a  place  ap- 
pointed another  day.  They  also  overtook  Rose  Teague,  near 
Totter  Down,  where  brethren  Dickason  and  Whinnell  had 
got  in. 

On  the  eleventh,  brother  GifFord's  meeting  was  found  out ; 
but  they  having  some  notice  of  the  enemies'  coming,  dis- 
persed, only  sister  Lawrence  and  Lambert  were  taken  by 
them.  Which  two  or  three  colliers  knowing,  asked  the 
marshal  what  authority  they  had.  He  said,  They  were  the 
king's  officers.  But  the  other  told  them,  Not  these.  They 
said  also,  They  should  take  men  and  not  women,  and  they 
would  see  their  warrant.  Upon  this  the  marshal  for  fear 
slipped  away,  and  the  colliers  said,  They  would  not  take  them 
away  by  force,  but  if  the  young  women  would  go  with  them 
they  should  not  have  them.  And  accordingly  the  women  went 
with  them.  So  this  was  called  a  rescue  of  the  king's  pri- 
soners. Wherefore,  afterwards,  they  caught  Ambrose  Davis, 
who  kept  an  ale-house  at  Scruze  Hole,  within  the  liberties  of 
the  city,  that  very  evening,  and  carried  him  to  Newgate. 
He  sent  for  his  wife,  and  she,  for  fear,  gave  the  names  of 
many  who  were  said  to  be  at  the  meeting,  and  told  what 
colliers   were  with    her   husband,    and  so   her  husband   was 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  477 

discharged  the  next  day.  This  was  looked  on  as  a  grand 
riot.  Joyner  swore  he  was  afraid  of  his  life,  so  a  warrant 
was  granted  to  take  up  several,  and  the  women  also.  So 
they  threaten  what  they  will  do  next  sessions. 

On  the  14th,  a  day  of  prayer,  having  some  hours  together 
in  the  wood  between  London  and  Sodbury  Road,  the  enemies 
came  upon  us  unawares,  and  seized  about  eight  persons ;  but 
the  brethren  escaped  to  admiration.  The  bushes  were  of 
great  service  to  us ;  but  they  took  sister  Young,  sen.,  Mary 
Young,  sisters  Hughes  and  Clark,  and  her  horse  and  man 
John,  brother  Purnell's  wife,  Mrs.  Sage,  sister  Dayes,  Mrs. 
Saunders,  brother  Randall's  wife's  sister,  Mrs.  Mary  Sey- 
mour, and  brought  them  away  to  the  Sun  ale-house,  near 
Lawford's  Gate.  And  there  they  got  Justice  Fitz-Herbert 
to  come,  and  upon  examination  he  could  get  little  out  of  them, 
and  could  not  learn  who  was  the  preacher;  so  they  were  let 
go.  But  Lugg  swore  he  heard  praying  or  preaching ;  so  we 
suppose  the  Conventicle  Act  will  be  put  in  execution. 
Sister  Young's  son  Emanuel,  being  seen  loading  of  hay,  the 
informers  made  him  go  along  with  them,  making  him  believe 
they  had  a  hue  and  cry. 

On  the  18th,  we  met,  some  on  one  side,  and  some  on  the 
other  of  the  river,  designing  to  cross  at  Earl's  Passage ;  but 
Earl  had  been  so  threatened,  that  he  would  not  let  us  pass. 
So  they  on  the  other  side  went  to  Hanham  Mills,  and  there 
came  over,  and  we  met  in  peace.  But  they  caught  sisters 
Morgan  and  Buckland  as  they  were  returning  into  the  city, 
and  had  them  to  Bridewell ;  but  in  the  evening  Joyner,  the 
keeper  of  Bridewell,  and  Lugg  and  Hore,  acting  like 
justices,  examined  them,  and  taking  sixpence  apiece  of  them 
for  fees  let  them  go. 

This  day  Isaac  Dennis,  keeper  of  Newgate,  died  in  great 
horror  and  despair,  wishing  he  had  never  taken  the  dissenters' 
money,  though  he  said  he  was  not  so  bad  as  Joyner,  because 


478  THE    RECORDS 

he  did  not  hale  them  into  prison.  He  said  he  should  be 
damned,  and  many  dreadful  expressions.  Brother  Purnell,  a 
relation,  going  to  see  him,  and  putting  the  clothes  on  him,  he 
said,  he  should  be  hot  enough  in  hell  shortly.  Some  say  he 
died  shrieking. 

December  9th.  Several  of  our  friends  were  out  great 
part  of  -this  day,  being  very  wet  and  cold,  with  snow  and 
sleet,  and  kept  a  little  meeting.  Brother  Terrill  preached. 
And  some  [met]  in  the  city,  to  whom  brother  Whinnell 
preached  in  peace. 

On  the  20th,  Watkins  the  marshal,  and  others,  went  with 
warrants  from  Justice  Herbert  to  brother  Jo.  Morgan,  in 
Temple  Street,  and  took  his  yarn  and  what  goods  they  could 
find,  for  seven  pounds  ten  shillings.  And  the  day  before 
took  away  Margaret  Seymour's  trunk  and  clothes,  worth 
about  thirty  pounds,  for  seven  pounds  odd  money,  for  being 
at  our  meeting  in  the  fields.  And  they  went  to  others  for 
five  shillings :  to  Mr.  Young  for  ten  shillings  for  his  wife  and 
daughter. 

December  23rd.  This  day  we  met  at  brother  Caleb 
Shuter's,  on  Redcliffe  Hill,  in  peace.  But  the  marshal  and 
others  first  got  into  brother  Giftord's  house,  and  searched 
that.  And  finding  there  a  child,  they  frightened  it,  that  it 
ran  to  Mr.  Wise's,  where  the  meeting  was,  and  they  followed 
it,  and  beset  the  house,  and  Watkins  gets  into  the  house 
when  brother  Gifford  had  ended  his  first  prayer.  Being  thus 
surprised,  brother  Gifford  endeavoured  to  get  out  at  the  back 
door,  but  Moses  Pell  laid  hold  on  his  great  coat.  However, 
he  gave  a  spring,  and  the  coat  slipped  off,  and  he  wonderfully 
made  his  escape,  though  they  pursued  him. 

Yesterday,  brother  Ellis's  son  Thomas  died,  having  got  a 
cold  by  lying  on  straw  in  Uchester  jail  many  months,  of  which 
he  never  recovered.     But  the  Lord  did  there  savingly  awaken 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  479 

him,  and  he  was  baptized  by  Mr.  Miller,  pastor  of  a  neigh- 
bouring church  there.3 

On  the  26th,  brother  Nathanael  Sneed,  one  of  our  deacons, 
died. 

On  the  30th,  being  a  hard  frost,  and  snow  on  the  ground, 
we  met  in  the  wood,  and  though  we  stood  in  the  snow,  the 
sun  shone  upon  us,  and  we  were  in  peace.  But  in  our  return, 
Watkins  and  another  met  with  sister  Clark  and  her  maid, 
sister  Allen's  husband's  sister,  Mary  Young  and  her  brother 
Richard,  Katherine  Fownes,  our  pastor's  daughter,  and  Mrs. 
Legg's  daughter,  of  St.  Austin's  Back.     Sister  Clark  would 

DO  £>  ' 

not  tell  the  marshal  her  name,  nor  go  into  an  ale-house. 
Then  he  said,  she  must  go  before  a  justice.  She  said,  If  he 
would  stay  till  she  sent  for  her  horse,  she  would  then  be 
brought  to  the  constable  of  the  hundred ;  and  Katherine 
Fownes  and  the  rest  he  said  he  knew.  On  her  promise  to 
appear  next  morning  the  constable  let  her  go.  Accordingly, 
she  appears ;  but  Watkins  could  not,  because  of  Lieutenant 
Green's  funeral.  But  Wheeler,  the  tithing-man,  came,  and 
would  have  the  constable  go  before  a  justice;  but  he  would 
not,  because  Watkins  did  not  come ;  saying,  he  had  nothing 
to  accuse  them  of.     So  they  went  home. 

January  6th.  On  this  day  widow  Jervis  departed  this 
life,  and  was  buried  in  our  burying-place.  The  parish 
allowed  her  two  shillings  a  week,  and  the  church  one,  by 
reason  of  her  helplessness  through  distemper. 

On  the  12th,  brother  Thomas  Hall  was  sought  after  by 
the  marshal,  and  one  of  the  sheriff's  men,  but  was  not 
found.  Lugg,  chief  constable  of  James's  Ward,  told  Alder- 
man Hicks  he  used  all  the  means  he  could  to  take  Mr. 
Whinnell,  but  could  not.     About  twenty  of  our  friends  had 

3  [Probably  Mr.  Jobn  Miller,  pastor       pastor.      He   continued   there  till   his 
of  the  church  at  Yeovil,  of  which  he  is       death  in  1720. — Ivimey,  ii.  557.] 
said  to  have  been  the  founder  and  first 


480  THE    RECORDS 

been  obliged  to  go  to  Gloucester  several  sessions,  and  now 
brethren  Bodenham,  Bowman,  Messenger,  and  Courtney, 
employed  Mr.  Hawksworth,  the  attorney,  to  serve  the  court 
with  a  certiorari  to  remove  the  cause  to  the  King's  Bench ; 
but  Justice  Player,  being  foreman,  would  not  allow  it,  be- 
cause he  had  not  two  ready  to  give  a  ten  pound  bond  to  pay 
costs.  But  presently  impannelled  a  jury,  and  although  the 
jury  brought  them  in  not  guilty,  Player  told  them  they  must 
bring  them  in  guilty,  because  some  of  Mr.  Weeks's  people 
in  the  same  indictment  had  submitted,  thereby  owning 
themselves  guilty,  &c,  and  the  court  required  their  con- 
formity, and  upon  their  bringing  certificates  had  released 
them,  paying  five  shillings  a  man,  namely,  Mr.  Chock,  Gibbs, 
Rawley,  Lott,  and  others.  And  brother  Bowman  giving  six 
guineas  to  Ralph  Ollive  got  off  also.  But  brethren  Boden- 
ham, Messenger,  and  Courtney,  were  found  guilty,  and 
because  they  were  not  there,  they  threatened  to  undo  their 
security,  and  fine  them  greatly.  Brother  Gwilliam  went 
into  court  soon  after,  and  tendered  security  as  to  the  certiorari, 
but  it  was  not  accepted. 

On  the  20th  of  January,  brother  Gifford  and  his  people, 
by  reason  of  the  extreme  cold,  could  not  stay  abroad,  but 
went  into  one  Gold's  house,  a  collier  beyond  Dungens  Cross. 
And  the  informers  had  employed  two  boys  to  dog  the  people, 
and  they  brought  them  word  they  went  into  that  house ;  so 
they  beset  the  house,  and  kept  all  in  till  they  had  taken 
their  names;  and* took  Mr.  Gifford,  first  to  the  Sun  ale- 
house, then  to  Newton's  Arms,  where  they  kept  him  all 
night,  and  next  morning  brought  him  before  Justices  Newton 
and  Meredith,  where  Watkins  and  another  witnessed  he 
preached  in  April  last,  for  they  could  not  now  prove 
preaching  or  praying.  So  they  made  his  mittimus  to 
Gloucester,  and  committed  him  to  the  constable  to  have  him 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  481 

thither,  but  gave  leave  for  him  to  go  home  for  three  days  to 
take  leave  of  his  friends. 

On  the  23rd,  in  the  evening,  four  women,  and  brother 
Harvey,  and  brother  Wise's  man,  came  to  see  him.  The 
informers  coming  in  took  Mr.  Gifford  out  of  his  house,  and 
carries  the  two  men,  with  one  Mr.  Fowles  also  who  came 
while  they  were  in  Mr.  Gifford 's  house,  and  swears  an  un- 
lawful assembly  against  them  before  Justice  Newton,  then  at 
the  Lamb,  without  Lawford's  Gate.  So  he  makes  a  mittimus 
to  send  them  three  to  jail,  with  Mr.  Gifford;  but  interces- 
sion being  made,  he  took  security  for  the  three  men  to 
appear  at  the  sessions,  and  ordered  the  constable  to  take  Mr. 
Gifford  directly  to  Gloucester,  and  not  to  go  out  of  his  way, 
and  threatened  him  severely  if  he  did. 

On  the  fourth  February,  brother  Messenger  had  his  house 
broken  open  by  Watkins  and  others ;  but  he  went  out  at  a 
gutter  window,  and  over  to  a  neighbour's  house,  and  down 
their  stairs  into  the  street,  and  escaped,  But  his  mother  and 
family  were  greatly  frightened. 

On  the  eleventh,  aged  brother  Tyler  died,  as  it  is  sup- 
posed, in  his  sleep,  and  was  buried  in  our  burying-place. 
He  seemed  to  be  in  his  usual  state  of  health.  This  day,  also, 
Francis  Whitehead  was  brought  before  the  mayor,  and 
Watkins  and  others  said  he  was  seen  in  September  last,  in 
Kingswood,  on  the  highway,  going  towards  Bristol;  and 
though  they  could  not  prove  he  had  been  at  a  meeting, 
because  he  would  not  give  bond  to  appear  at  Gloucester  next 
sessions,  he  was  sent  to  Newgate.  Old  brother  Robert 
Cornish  was  brought  before  the  mayor,  and  bound  over  to 
Gloucester  sessions,  because  he  and  his  wife  were  seen  in 
Kingswood,  and  only  supposed  he  had  been  at  a  meeting ; 
and  he  was  bound  to  Bristol  sessions,  on  the  oath  of  a  waiter 
on  board  a  ship,  saying,  that  ten  months  before  he  had 
spoken  against  the  common  prayer. 

I  I 


482  THE    RECORDS 

At  two  designed  meetings  lately,  we  had  intelligence  that 
we  were  dogged  by  children,  and  should  have  the  informers 
upon  us.  So  we  dispersed,  and  one  of  the  times  met  at  another 
house  in  peace.  The  informers  had  now  got  orders  from  the 
justices  to  return  the  names  of  men  or  women  whom  they 
could  see  in  the  fields,  though  they  could  not  prove  any  meet- 
ing, to  the  sessions  at  Gloucester.  And  so  several  whom  they 
could  remember  to  have  seen  in  the  wood,  though  six  months 
ago,  they  have  had  before  Sir  William  Clutterbuck,  our 
mayor,  and  he  has  bound  them  over  to  the  sessions.  Many  of 
our  friends,  therefore,  being  bound  over,  and  some  afraid  to  go 
about  their  worldly  business,  at  a  church-meeting  on  the 
4th  of  March,  we  took  our  sad  state  into  consideration; 
and  brother  Terrill  signified,  that  our  duty  lay  in  three 
things:  —  1st.  To  watch  over  one  another,  that  none  draw 
back  to  the  world's  worship.  2nd.  That  every  one  sanctify 
the  Lord's  day.  3rd.  That  we  endeavour  to  edify  one 
another  as  members,  and  also  do  what  we  can  for  others' 
souls.  And  considering  what  is  above,  and  that  writs  are 
daily  expected  to  levy  20/.  a  month,  2407.  per  annum  a  man, 
upon  us,  for  not  coming  to  church,  or  imprison  us  if  it  be 
not  paid,  there  being  thirteen  brethren  present,  we  agreed 
to  have  circular  meetings  at  five  places,  where  the  brethren 
were  to  exercise  their  gifts,  and  twice  in  a  day,  at  nine  in  the 
morning,  and  at  one  in  the  afternoon.  These  five  places  were, 
— first,  brother  Dickason  or  Davis;  2nd,  brother  Clark  or 
Robert  Lewis ;  3rd,  brother  Whinnell ;  4th,  brother  Ellis  or 
J.  Ciornhs ;  5th,  brother  Terrill.  And  also  three  places  for 
prayer  and  repetition;  viz.,  brother  Gwilliam's,  brother 
Bodenham's,  brother  Reeve's.  And  because  some  might  be 
sick  or  otherwise  detained,  we  appointed  six  or  seven  to  a 
place,  and  the  first  four  were  to  be  taken  in,  and  those  that 
were  shut  out  were  to  go  to  the  places  of  repetition.  And 
none  were  to  go  to  a  place  but  once  a  day,  and  not  to  the 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  483 

same  place  every  Lord's  day  ;  but  round,  so  they  came  to  the 
same  once  in  five  weeks.  And  by  this  means  near  one 
hundred  might  hear  every  Lord's  day,  and  in  a  few  weeks  had 
the  benefit  of  all  the  church's  gifts.  And  besides,  brother 
Whinnell  would  repeat  again  at  some  house  in  the  evening, 
and  on  week  days  at  other  places.  Thus  we  kept  within  the 
law  which  allowed  four  besides  the  family.  And  on  the  9th 
of  March  we  began  this  circular  meeting. 

On  the  12th,  Watkins,  Lugg,  and  Joyner  came  to  brother 
Dickason's  and  carried  him  before  the  mayor,  who  sent  him 
to  Newgate,  because  he  would  not  be  bound  over  to  Glouces- 
ter sessions. 

On  the  14th  day,  we  kept  a  popular  meeting  at  sister 
Codner's,  a  day  of  prayer,  and  were  in  peace. 

On  the  15th,  the  writs  to  levy  201.  a  month  being  come, 
were  privately  opened,  and  in  the  afternoon  Sheriff  Arnold, 
and  his  officers,  and  the  informers,  go  into  men's  shops  and 
houses,  and  seize  all  their  goods,  and  carry  them  away  for  the 
king,  continuing  this  work  till  twelve  at  night. 

On  the  17th  to  the  20th  day,  the  under  sheriff  went  about 
to  take  an  account  of  dissenters'  goods,  and  appraise,  and  if 
they  would  pay  down  the  money  they  appraised  them  at,  they 
had  them.  Otherwise  they  were  marked,  and  the  owners 
charged  not  to  meddle  with  them.  And  in  some  houses,  some 
officer  was  set  to  watch  the  goods  that  none  were  removed. 

Such  as  would  conform,  and  bring  certificates  of  their  doing 
[so],  were  obliged  to  pay  the  town-clerk  twenty  pounds  each 
man  for  the  charge  of  reversing  the  sentence,  (Michael  Pope 
is  said  to  have  paid  100/.,)  and  so  their  goods  were  let  alone. 
Many  that  knew  of  these  things  beforehand  removed  their 
goods,  what  they  could.  Several,  to  avoid  going  before  the 
mayor  and  to  prison,  gave  the  informers  one,  two,  or  three 
guineas,  as  brother  Sam.  Hunt  did.  There  was  now  a  shoe- 
maker's   man,    Smith,    turned    informer,    and    endeavoured 

I  12 


484  THE    RECORDS 

to  get  money  of  servant-maids ;  which  Mr.  Whitehead  proving 
against  him  before  an  alderman,  he  was  sent  to  Newgate,  on 
the  20th  instant.  But  Watkins  informing  the  mayor  of  it,  he 
releases  him,  and  sending  for  the  woman  that  came  a  witness 
against  him,  some  were  procured  to  swear  that  she  kept  a 
meeting  in  her  house  some  time  past :  so  they  cast  her  into 
Newgate,  and  set  the  informer  free. 

On  the  23rd,  being  Lord's  day,  they  lay  watching  at  brother 
Richard  Town's  house,  and  hearing  him  read,  sent  a  stranger 
to  knock  at  his  door,  and  so  got  in  and  took  him,  and  because 
he  would  not  find  surety  to  appear  at  Gloucester,  they  sent 
him  to  Newgate. 

Anno  1684. 

On  the  29th,  they  executed  their  writs  for  twenty  pounds 
a  month,  and  made  a  third  seizure  of  Mr.  Burgess's  goods,  a 
woollen-draper  in  High  Street.  Brother  Thos.  Child,  being 
one  of  Mr.  Ford's  jury,  they  indicted  him  for  not  coming  to 
church,  though  he  lives  in  Barton  Hundred ;  and  also  brother 
Millard,  being  also  on  the  said  jury.  Some  friends,  therefore, 
made  intercession  with  Watkins,  Lugg,  and  Ollive,  and  got 
them  off  for  about  five  pounds  charges,  on  the  2nd  of  April. 
But  the  next  day  there  came  out  a  warrant  from  the  justices 
and  Ben.  Hyett,  clerk  of  the  peace  for  Gloucester,  now  come 
to  Bristol,  to  search  after  Mr.  Young  and  his  family,  to  bind 
them  over  to  Gloucester  sessions.  So  they  were  forced  to 
leave  their  house  (and  brother  Child  also,  though  they  agreed 
for  him)  for  the  present. 

Ben.  Hyett  being  come  to  town,  some  did  endeavour  to 
mediate  on  behalf  of  brother  Messenger,  who  was  one  of  those 
that  brought  the  certiorari  at  Gloucester ;  (but  the  chairman 
[would]  not  allow  it,  but  make  them  forfeit  their  recogni- 
zance for  not  appearing,  one  hundred  pounds  a  man ;  namely, 
each  forty  pounds  himself,  and  three  sureties  twenty  pounds 


OF   A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  485 

each.)  For  they  oft  sought  to  take  him,  but  did  not,  though 
they  broke  in,  and  frightened  his  mother  greatly.  And 
another  time,  at  nine  in  the  evening,  got  in,  and  abused  his 
mother,  threw  her  down,  trod  upon  one  of  his  sisters  that  had 
a  young  sucking  child  in  her  lap,  like  to  have  spoiled  it,  and 
struck  his  sister  Elizabeth  with  a  stick  on  her  head,  and  made 
it  swell.  For  all  this  abuse  Lugg  brings  said  Elizabeth  before 
the  mayor,  and  would  have  her  bound  over  to  sessions.  And 
though  the  justices  saw  they  were  wronged,  yet  the  mayor 
said,  "  Seeing  it  is  as  it  is,  ask  Mr.  Lugg  forgiveness,"  and 
made  her  do  so.  So  they  searched  for  brother  Messenger, 
but  [he]  escaped.  However,  being  poor,  and  not  able  to 
maintain  his  mother  and  family,  unless  at  liberty  to  work,  we 
sought  to  buy  his  peace  with  Ollive,  to  whom  Hyett  left  it, 
and  upon  giving  Ollive  twelve  pounds  he  was  released  for  the 
present. 

On  the  4th,  they  send  Mr.  Ozyll  BusselPs  maid  to  prison, 
because  she  would  not  find  sureties. 

On  the  5th,  a  Serjeant  met  with  brother  Messenger,  and 
brought  him  before  the  mayor,  who  would  bind  him  over ;  but 
Ollive  told  the  mayor,  Messenger  had  satisfied  the  law. 
However,  the  mayor  would  bind  him  to  Bristol  sessions, 
because  he  did  not  come  to  his  worship  when  summoned. 

On  the  6th,  being  Lord's  day,  Lugg  spies  Peter  Kineton, 
foreman  of  Mr.  Wood's  sugar-house,  going  along  the  street, 
and  calls  to  him,  and  says,  "  You  must  go  before  the  mayor." 
Peter  did  not  mind  it,  it  being  the  Lord's  day,  because  of  the 
Act  of  Parliament  that  they  could  not  serve  a  warrant  on  the 
Lord's  day ;  but  Lugg  follows  him  with  six  more  constables, 
and  takes  him  before  the  mayor,  where  Peter  pleaded  the 
illegality  of  the  action,  disturbing  him  on  the  Lord's  day  while 
going  along  the  street.  The  mayor  said,  "  There  was  such  an 
Act  of  Parliament,  but  that  was  nothing  : "  or  to  that  purpose. 
And  so  made  him  promise  to  go  to  Gloucester  on  the  morrow 


486  THE    RECORDS 

to  the  sessions,  to  answer  for  his  being  seen  to  go  along  from 
a  meeting,  as  they  say,  some  months  past. 

On  the  7th,  the  informers  went  to  Gloucester  to  appear 
against  about  eighty,  bound  over  to  the  sessions,  among  whom 
were  brother  Warren  and  old  brother  Cornish. 

On  the  9th,  Dr.  Chauncey  being  indicted  at  Bristol,  on 
[the  Act  of]  35th  Elizabeth,  was  sent  to  Newgate.  On  the 
10th,  brother  Warren  was  fined  10/.  for  a  riot,  being  at  a 
meeting  near  Roe  Gate,  and  fees  47s.,  which  he  paid  in  the 
hall  at  Gloucester.  But  Lugg  was  forsworn  in  it,  for  he 
swore  it  was  on  the  27th,  and  it  was  the  29th  day  that  the 
meeting  was.  Old  brother  Cornish  was  bound  to  appear 
again  next  sessions,  and  several  others.  Some  were  fined  40s. 
and  their  fees,  and  released.  Sister  Fowles  [was]  put  in 
prison  at  Gloucester.  Some  were  fined  five  marks,  as  Mr. 
Jos.  Wey  ;  some  51,  as  the  justices  pleased,  and  to  lie  in  prison 
till  paid.  About  this  time  Pug.  Read  died  miserably,  being 
an  informer  about  twenty  years  old :  had  his  skull  broke,  as 
said,  by  one  of  his  companions ;  he  was  one  that  broke  into 
Mr.  TerrilPs  house. 

On  the  16th,  brother  Dickason  got  out  of  prison,  by  giving 
bail  to  appear  next  Bristol  sessions.  On  the  17th,  the  writs 
for  twenty  pounds  a  month  were  executed  on  Mr.  Burgess, 
grocer  in  High  Street,  and  Mr.  Charles  Harford,  in  Wine 
Street. 

On  the  27th,  our  sister  Alice  Cornish  died,  one  that 
"  walked  with  God,"  and  was  very  useful  in  the  church  for 
forty  years.  One  asked  the  way  of  her  to  a  place,  whom  she 
directed,  and  then  said,  "  Do  you  know  the  way  to  Zion  ?" 
See  more  of  her  in  the  waste-book. 

On  the  7th  of  May,  Mr.  Young  and  his  wife,  and  daughter 
Mary,  were  carried  to  the  Black  Horse  ;  but  the  constable  let 
them  go  home,  on  the  promise  to  appear  next  morning  before 
Justice  Meredith,  who  would  have  bound  Mr.  Young  over, 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  487 

but  being  told  that  he  was  related  to  my  Lord  Herbert,  the 
justice  bade  him  bring  an  order  from  my  lord  in  ten  days,  or 
else  he  would  bind  him :  and  so  did  nothing  for  the  present. 
Aaron  Watts  informs  the  mayor,  that  there  was  praying  and 
preaching  at  Mr.  Lewis's;  but  being  asked  how  many  were 
present  besides  the  family,  he  said  but  four.  So  the  mayor 
told  him  he  could  do  nothing  except  there  were  more. 

On  the  11th,  being  Lord's  day  evening,  Joseph  Badger  had 
a  child,  of  about  one  year  and  a  half  old,  buried  in  our  yard. 
The  informers  watched  at  an  alehouse,  and  while  the  company 
were  in  the  burying-yard,  Lugg  commands  them  to  depart  in 
the  king's  name.  So  they  all  began  to  go  away,  but  they 
would  not  let  them  until  they  had  taken  their  names,  which 
they  carried  to  the  mayor,  who  ordered  the  matter  to  be  tried 
at  Guildhall  the  14th  instant.  At  which  time  a  jury  was  im- 
panelled, and  they  were  accused  for  a  riot ;  but  the  jury  would 
not  find  it  a  riot,  but  an  unlawful  assembly  for  not  burying  in 
consecrated  ground.  So  the  mayor  fined  the  father  of  the 
child  40s.,  and  court  fees  came  to  about  three  pounds  in  all. 

On  the  24th,  Watkins  and  his  company  knocked  at  brother 
Dickason's  door  whilst  he  was  at  family  prayer,  and  because 
the  maid  did  not  presently  let  them  in  would  have  taken  her 
away,  and  brought  her  down ;  but  they  being  drunk,  she 
escaped  at  a  back  door. 

On  the  27th,  Lugg,  Watkins,  and  Joyner  went  to  West- 
bury,  to  John  Harris,  who  kept  a  dairy  there,  threatening  to 
drive  away  his  cattle  if  he  would  not  pay  them  11  10s.  for 
being  at  a  meeting  in  the  fields  last  November,  while  he  was 
servant  to  Mrs.  Clark.  So  he  being  frightened,  takes  them  to 
Mrs.  Clark,  who  passed  her  word  for  the  money,  provided  it 
must  be  paid.  But  they  afterwards  came  again,  and  would 
drive  away  his  cattle  if  he  would  not  pay  them  10s.  for  the 
present :  so  he  was  forced  to  pay  it. 

On  the  2nd  June,  1684,  they  came  to  brother  Morgan,  and 


488  THE    RECORDS 

carried  away  twenty  pounds'  worth  in  goods,  for  his  being  at 
the  above  said  meeting  in  November.  They  had  once  before 
seized  his  goods,  and  he  paid  them  three  pounds  ten  shillings 
for  their  release.  And  now  they  demanded  61.  155.,  though 
the  warrant  at  first  given  by  Justice  Herbert  was  but  for 
77.  15s.  And  the  poor  man,  by  loss  of  debts  lately,  was  not 
able  to  pay  the  money.  His  bed  which  he  lay  on  was  part  of 
the  goods  they  now  took.  Brother  J.  Ford  has  of  late  gone 
sometimes  to  his  parish  church  at  Bilton,  and  was  therefore 
visited  by  brother  Whinnell  first,  and  then  by  brother  Terrill. 
He  says,  he  do  not  go  till  after  common-prayer,  and  would 
attend  the  meeting  if  kept  in  Kingswood,  being  still  of  the 
same  mind  as  ever,  but  he  could  not  come  to  Bristol ;  fear  and 
love  of  his  estate  thus  far  prevailed. 

On  the  10th  day,  sister  Clark  of  Southmead,  beyond  West- 
bury,  was  forced  to  pay  the  71.  10s.  for  her  man  John  Harris. 

On  the  14th,  aged  sister  Pope  died. 

On  the  15th,  the  constables  of  Holland  Ward  passing  by 
brother  Dickason's  heard  him  at  prayer,  and  would  have  come 
in ;  but  he  would  not  let  them  without  a  warrant.  So  they 
went  and  fetched  Alderman  Hicks  out  of  his  church,  and 
when  he  came  brother  Dickason  opened  his  door,  and  there 
was  only  Emanuel  Young  there  besides  his  family.  Him  they 
made  pay  Is.  for  not  being  at  church,  and  brother  Dickason 
the  same  for  all  in  his  family,  and  he  must  appear  to-morrow 
at  [the]  Tolzey,  and  be  bound  for  his  good  behaviour  for  not 
letting  in  the  constables  without  a  warrant. 

On  the  22nd,  being  Lord's  day,  Watkins  and  company 
hearing  Mr.  Young's  son  reading,  searched  the  house  and  the 
malt,  and  said  they  had  conveyed  away  the  people.  And  a  fat 
man  then  went  to  the  maid  a  milking,  and  drunk  the  milk,  and 
then  boasted  at  Baptist  Mills,  they  had  been  drinking  god- 
father's milk. 

On  the  23rd,  sister  Messenger,  widow,  died,  and  was  buried 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  489 

in  James's  Yard.  Watkins  having  seen  Mr.  Young's  son, 
apprentice  with  brother  Bodenham,  on  the  highway,  got  a 
warrant  against  him  for  being  at  a  meeting,  in  spite  to  his 
father :  so  the  young  man  hid  for  some  time,  and  went  to  sea. 
Watkins  had  oft  asked  his  master  three  guineas  to  make  it  up, 
and  Mr.  Bodenham  had  offered  him  half  so  much ;  but  Mr. 
Terrill  persuaded  him  to  give  him  three  pounds,  provided  he 
would  clear  him  and  Mr.  Clark,  a  young  attorney,  who  had 
been  forced  to  break  up  his  family,  and  retire  into  the  country 
three  months  before.  So  Watkins  agreeing  he  would  trouble 
neither  of  them  for  what  was  passed,  on  the  5th  of  July  Mr. 
Bodenham  paid  him  the  three  pounds,  and  Mr.  Terrill  said  he 
would  pay  him  again  for  Mr.  Clark. 

On  the  10th,  we  kept  a  day  of  prayer  in  four  parts,  there 
being  a  general  muster  of  the  artillery,  because  officers  were 
sworn,  and  the  Earl  of  Worcester  brought  the  city's  new 
charter.  On  which  day  Watkins  had  been  drinking  a  health 
to  the  confusion  of  the  fanatics,  and  then  sickened  that  he 
could  not  go  to  Gloucester  to  prosecute  our  friends,  especially 
Mr.  Young,  foreman  of  Mr.  Ford's  jury,  whom  he  had  indicted 
for  20/.  a  month,  and  said  he  would  pin  him  fast.  But  on  the 
same  day  the  sessions  sat  at  Gloucester,  the  16th,  Watkins 
died,  and  was  nailed  fast  in  his  coffin,  and  Mr.  Young  and  his 
family  were  cleared.     Ezek.  xvi.  50. 

On  the  20th,  our  morning  meeting  at  brother  Dickason's 
was  disturbed  by  the  constables,  who  heard  him  at  prayer,  and 
came  in ;  and  seeing  four  besides  the  family  fetched  Sir  Robt. 
Cann  and  Alderman  Hicks  from  church,  wTho  diligently 
searched  every  part  of  his  house  to  find  more,  but  could  not. 
Alderman  Hicks  would  have  sent  them  all  to  prison,  but  Sir 
Robert  would  not ;  but  took  their  word  one  for  another  to 
appear  on  Tolzey  next  morning,  only  Emanuel  Young  they 
sent  to  Newgate,  without  mittimus,  to  be  kept  till  morning. 
The  next  day  they  appear;  viz.,  brother  Dickason  and  his 


490  THE    RECORDS 

wife,  Emanuel  Young,  sister  Webb,  Allen,  widow,  and 
Wheeler,  when  brother  Dickason  was  greatly  set  at  nought, 
and  charged  with  harbouring  people  in  sermon  time.  His 
mittimus  was  made  and  sealed,  because  he  said  they  agreed 
together  to  make  the  thing  a  crime.  But  upon  much  inter- 
cession, and  promise  not  to  have  meetings  at  his  house,  he  was 
respited  till  sessions.  Sister  Allen  went  away  while  they 
were  so  long  about  him.  Sister  Webb  and  Wrheeler  [were] 
bid  to  lay  down  their  twelvepence  apiece,  and  they  would 
have  Sister  Webb  promise  to  go  to  meeting  no  more,  else  they 
would  not  take  her  shilling.  She  desired  two  or  three  days  to 
consider  of  it. 

On  the  27th,  our  meeting  of  about  forty  at  brother  Pur- 
nelPs  was  discovered  by  a  smith's  wife;  who,  seeing  the 
people  go,  leaves  her  husband  to  watch  while  she  fetched  a 
constable.  But  meeting  with  one  that  took  little  notice 
of  it,  there  came  intelligence  before  any  came,  so  we 
escaped. 

Our  pastor,  and  Mr.  Young  the  minister,  had  lain  in 
jail  in  Gloucester  near  a  year  and  a  half.  Mr.  Fownes  was 
put  in  upon  the  Corporation  Act  at  Easter  sessions.  Brother 
Fownes  himself  pleaded  to  an  indictment  for  a  riot  in  Kings- 
wood,  and  so  convinced  the  jury  that  they  brought  him  in 
not  guilty.  But  though  they  then  had  nothing  against  him, 
Justice  Player  and  Chancellor  Parsons  would  not  let  him  go, 
unless  he  would  give  bond  for  his  good  behaviour ;  that  is,  he 
must  meet  no  more,  which  our  pastor  would  not  do.  Then 
the  next  sessions  they  would  not  let  him  go  unless  he  would 
give  bond  to  appear  at  Bristol  sessions,  and  to  be  of  good 
behaviour,  which  was  still  worse.  And,  therefore,  now  at 
the  assizes,  by  counsel,  brother  Fownes  moved  his  case  to 
Judge  Levins,  who,  they  say,  would  have  cleared  him ;  but 
the  Chancellor  Parsons  was  heard  to  whisper  him  that  Mr. 
Fownes  and  Young  were  dangerous  persons,  and  it  was  not 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST. 


491 


safe  to  the  government  to  let  them  go.  The  judge  ordered 
they  should  give  good  bail,  one  hundred  pounds  each,  and 
appear  next  assizes.  After  the  court  arose,  they  provided 
their  bail,  but  Hyett  said  the  order  was,  they  should  be  bound 
also  to  appear  at  Bristol ;  and  though  Duke,  the  counsellor, 
said  it  was  not  so,  yet  the  judge,  hurrying  out  of  town,  they 
had  not  time  to  apply  to  him,  and  so  were  continued  in 
prison. 

On  the  15th,  Francis  Whitehead  was  brought  to  the 
sessions  here,  and  having  got  a  lawyer  to  search  the  records 
at  Gloucester,  pleaded  before  the  mayor  there  was  no  indict- 
ment lodged  against  him  ;  but  because  Lugg  said  there  was, 
he  was  sent  to  Newgate  again,  where  he  had  lain  six  months, 
because  he  would  not  be  bound  to  sessions  at  Glou- 
cester. Then  brother  Cornish  was  menaced  about  his  speak- 
ing against  the  Common  Prayer,  and  charged  to  go  to 
church  that  Hellier  might  see  him  there,  and  then  he  should 
be  discharged.  On  this  day  also,  they  passed  a  sentence  of 
banishment  on  Dr.  Ichabod  Chauncey,  and  made  him  swear 
that  he  would  depart  this  city  and  nation,  within  three 
months,  from  this  port  and  no  other,  and  never  return  without 
the  king's  leave.  The  doctor  was  very  cheerful  under  all, 
though  he  had  been  above  four  months  in  Newgate  already. 
This  day  also,  brother  Dickason  was  severely  handled  about 
the  meeting  of  four  persons  and  his  house[hold],  and  the 
town-clerk  threatened  to  serve  him  as  he  had  done  Dr. 
Chauncey ;  but  afterwards  brother  Dickason  gave  the  town- 
clerk  two  guineas,  and  so  he  got  off  this  sessions.  And 
brother  Town  went,  by  advice,  beforehand  to  the  town-clerk, 
and  besought  his  pity  of  a  poor  man  and  several  children ; 
and  Mr.  Yates  also  speaking  to  the  town-clerk  for  him,  he 
paid  his  fees  only,  and  was  released. 

On  the  29th,  Dr.  Chauncey  went  privately  to  London,  in 
order  to  go   to    Holland.     And  on  the  2nd  of  September, 


492  THE    RECORDS 

brother  R.  Dennis  died,  and  was  buried  in  our  bury  ing-p]  ace. 
On  the  same  day,  the  sheriffs,  by  their  deputy  Oldfield,  made 
distress  by  the  writs  of  £20  a  month,  on  brother  Samuel 
Hunt,  of  two  butts  of  brandy,  which  they  valued  at  thirty- 
six  pounds,  aid  unless  he  would  give  £30,  they  would  cany 
them  away.  So  he  was  forced  to  get  a  friend  to  buy  them 
at  that  price.  Not  long  before,  they  seized  Mr.  Bailey  the 
pewterer's  goods. 

On  the  16th,  several  of  our  brethren,  brother  Hunt,  Wil- 
liam Dickason,  &c,  and  many  more,  were  summoned  by  the 
apparitor  to  the  bishop's  court,  for  not  receiving  the  Lord's 
supper.  We  had  now  a  bishop  from  the  Isle  of  Man,  the 
other  and  his  officers  too  being  dead. 

On  the  seventh,  nearly  twenty  more  friends  were  indicted 
for  eleven  months'  not  coming  to  church  ;  among  which  were 
Mr.  Young,  and  his  wife,  and  son,  and  daughter  Mary, 
brother  Child  and  brother  Millard,  as  recusants.  And 
brother  Fownes  being  brought  into  court,  was  by  Powell  the 
chairman  called  a  ringleader,  turbulent,  seditious;  and  told 
he  must  find  six  hundred  pounds'  bail  to  appear  next 
sessions  at  Bristol,  and  be  of  good  behaviour,  or  lie  in  prison. 
And  justice  Player  said  he  should  be  indicted  at  Bristol; 
it  is  supposed  on  35  Elizabeth.  October  10.  New  mayor 
and  sheriffs  being  chosen,  James  Twyford,  sheriff,  threatens 
to  find  out  our  little  meetings,  and  he  would  be  like  death, — 
spare  none. 

November  3rd.  Sister  Munday,  of  Brislington,  departed 
this  life,  and  was  buried  there. 

December  17th.  Sir  Thomas  Earl  and  Sir  John  Knight, 
both  great  persecutors,  put  out  of  the  council  here,  Deut. 
xxxii.  35.     See  waste-book. 

On  the  31st  of  December,  aged  sister  Hall  died. 

January  11th.  Joyner,  keeper  of  Bridewell,  went  to 
several  houses  in  Castle  Green,  to  hearken  for  a  meeting,  and 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  493 

would  heave  up  the  latches ;  and  so  doing,  he  espied  sister 
Clark  go  to  see  her  cousin  Bishop  that  was  sick.  And  there- 
upon he  fetches  several  constables,  and  searched  the  house, 
but  found  none  else  there.  A  servant  man,  seeing  them  go 
up  and  down  all  over  the  house,  bid  Joyner  take  heed  that  he 
took  nothing ;  but  the  man  had  like  to  be  sent  to  prison  for 
such  an  abuse  of  the  king's  officers,  and  there  was  much 
entreaty  to  save  him. 

January  13th.  At  the  quarter  sessions,  brother  Fownes 
was  treated  as  before,  and  Justice  Powell,  the  chairman,  told 
him,  Sir  Richard  Hart,  of  Bristol,  should  say  he  was  a  dan- 
gerous man.  So  they  still  kept  him  there  at  Gloucester, 
prisoner. 

Anno  1685. 

On  the  29th  of  November,  1685,  our  pastor,  brother 
Fownes,  died  in  Gloucester  Jail,  having  been  kept 
there  for  two  years  and  about  nine  months  a  prisoner,  unjustly 
and  maliciously,  for  the  testimony  of  Jesus  and  preaching 
the  gospel.  He  was  a  man  of  great  learning,  of  a  sound 
judgment,  an  able  preacher,  having  great  knowledge  in 
divinity,  law,  physic,  &c.  ;  a  bold,  patient  sufferer  for  the 
Lord  Jesus,  and  the  gospel  he  preached. 

January  4th.  Our  Sister  Stephens  departed  this  life. 
She  was  a  woman  of  a  holy  conversation,  full  of  grace  and 
love  to  the  Lord ;  one  that  [had]  great  assurance  of  her  inte- 
rest in  Christ.     She  died  in  a  single  state. 

January  12th.  By  several  brethren  in  the  name  of  the 
church,  sent  a  letter  to  brother  Ellis,  who  is  now  in  London, 
to  desire  him  to  return  to  us,  and  to  his  office  in  the  church, 
&c.  Secondly,  Agreed  that  brethren  Bodenham,  Dickason, 
Clark,  Whinnel,  should  visit  as  many  of  the  members  as 
neglected  their  duty  in  assembling,  and  as  many  others  as 
they  saw  meet.     Thirdly,  That  two  go  to  Sister  Smith,  and 


494  THE    RECORDS 

stir  [her]  up  to  her  work,  in  visiting,  &c.,  as  a  deaconess,  and 
that  sister  Lux  be  desired  to  assist  her,  because  of  sister 
Walton's  inability. 

On  the  13th,  we  kept  a  day  of  prayer  in  three  parts  in 
peace. 

Anno  1686. 

June.  Sister  Bodenham,  wife  of  brother  R.  Bodenham, 
deceased,  after  a  long  and  grievous  affliction.  She  was  a 
woman  of  a  lively  temper,  a  promoter  of  good  works.  She 
died  in  the  flower  of  her  age,  and  had  much  satisfaction  in 
the  Lord. 

July  25th.  We  had  a  church-meeting  at  sister  Terrill's. 
We  were  in  peace.  A  good  day  for  the  church,  after  three 
years  and  five  months'  interruption  of  full  assemblies ;  partly 
occasioned  by  our  violent  persecutors,  and  partly  our  own 
fears  and  backwardness.  At  this  meeting,  the  members  were 
desired  to  bring  in  their  contributions  for  the  poor,  to  the 
deacons,  who  complained  of  great  neglect  on  that  account. 
Some  brethren  that  had  not  made  good  their  places  of  late 
were  sent  to;  and  the  church  were  desired  to  consider  of 
some  person  to  be  chosen  a  ruling  elder,  in  the  place  of  dear 
brother  Terrill,  deceased. 

Sister  Lux  and  sister  Webb  departed  this  life.  And 
brother  Gwilliam  was  chosen  to  be  a  ruling  elder. 

Anno  1687. 

When  the  church,  after  above  five  years,  returned  to  their 
old  meeting-place,  brother  Yauxe  was  chosen  pastor,  April 
28th,  1687,  at  brother  Bodenham's,  on  a  day  of  prayer  set 
apart  for  that  purpose.  And  at  this  meeting  several  persons 
were  sent  to  for  omissions  of  duty,  in  the  times  of  our  late 
troubles. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  495 

On  the  5th  May,  we  kept  a  day  of  prayer,  preparatory  to 
the  Lord's  supper,  at  brother  Vauxe's, 

On  the  8th,  the  church  sat  down  at  the  Lord's  table. 
Brother  Vauxe  administered,  and  it  was  a  comfortable 
opportunity. 

Transcribed  this  abridgment  out  of  the  waste-book,  called  a 
Memorial,  where  you  may  find  things  more  at  large, — 
B[ernard]  F[osket]. 

Third  month,  22nd  day.5  Upon  the  request  of  the  church 
at  Chipping  Sodbury,  together  with  our  brother  Jennings 
his  concurrence  with  them,  the  church  sent  them  a  letter  of 
dismission  for  brother  Jennings,  who  was  before  recommended 
to  them  from  us,  to  assist  them  in  the  ministry,  but  was  not 
resigned  up  to  them.  But  now  being  called  by  them  to  be 
their  pastor,  we  thought  good  to  resign  him  up  unto  them, 
and  to  the  work  whereto  the  Lord  had  called  him. 

To  the  church  of  Christ  meeting  at  Chipping  Sodbury,  in  the 
county  of  Gloucester. 

Grace  be  to  you  and  peace  from  God  our  Father,  and  from  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Dearly  beloved  Brethren, — We  have  received  your  letter 
of  the  15th  instant,  and  are  deeply  sensible  of  your  condition,  and 
heartily  ready  and  willing  to  contribute  our  mite  of  assistance  to 
promote  what  in  us  lieth  the  honour  and  glory  of  God,  the  inte- 
rest of  our  dear  Lord  Jesus,  the  conversion  of  sinners,  and  the 
building  up  of  saints  among  you.  And  though  our  beloved  bro- 
ther Jennings  be  very  dear  unto  us,  and  we  very  loath  to  part  with 
him,  yet,  upon  this  weighty  account,  God  having  pitched  your 
thoughts  upon  him,  and  inclined  his  heart,  and  made  him  willing 
to  undertake  the  burden,  we  cannot,  we  dare  not,  detain  him  from 

5  [The  following  pages  are  not  in  only  the  memorandum  at  the  close.  See 
Mr.   Fosket's  hand-writing,    excepting       note,  p.  419.  Probably  Mr.  Vauxe's.] 


496  THE    RECORDS 

you  ;  but  freely  give  our  consent  for  his  coming  to  you,  and 
taking  upon  him  that  great  and  weighty  work.  Beseeching  the 
Father  of  mercies  to  strengthen  him  mightily  in  order  thereunto, 
to  double  and  treble  his  gifts  and  graces,  to  prosper  his  labours 
among  you,  wonderfully  to  assist  him  with  his  Holy  Spirit,  and 
to  crown  his  endeavours  with  good  success,  that  many  souls  may 
by  his  ministry  be  brought  into  the  fold  of  our  dear  Lord  Jesus. 
And  we  pray  you,  brethren,  pray  for  us,  that  we  may  be  enabled 
to  adorn  our  Christian  profession,  with  a  holy,  humble,  harmless, 
and  spotless  conversation.  And  we,  as  in  duty  bound,  shall  beg 
the  very  God  of  peace  to  sanctify  you  wholly,  that  your  whole 
spirit,  and  soul,  and  body  may  be  preserved  blameless,  unto  the 
coming  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  whose  everlasting  arms  of 
mere}'  we  leave  you,  and  remain,  your  Christian  brethren  in  the 
faith  and  fellowship  of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ. 

Signed  in  the  name,  and  by  the  order  of  the  whole  church. 

Bristol,  the  22nd  of  the  3rd  month,  1687. 

Upon  the  16th  day  of  the  fourth  month,  being  our 
monthly  day  of  prayer,  kept  at  brother  Bodenham's,  our 
sister  Hester  Branch  was  spoken  with,  who  gave  an  account 
of  the  work  of  grace  on  her  soul.  The  church  was  satisfied 
therewith  to  receive  her. 

Upon  this  day  of  prayer,  our  brother  Thomas  Whinnell, 
having  received  a  call  from  the  church  at  Devizes,  and  another 
from  the  church  at  Taunton,  to  take  upon  him  the  pastoral 
work,  and  because  he  looked  on  himself  unfit  for  so  weighty 
an  undertaking,  and  both  congregations  nevertheless  very 
importunate  to  get  him,  he  desired  the  church,  upon  seeking 
God  by  prayer  for  direction,  to  consider  the  matter,  and  to 
give  him  their  advice,  whether  it  was  a  duty  incumbent  on 
him  to  leave  this  city,  or  may  be  most  for  God's  glory  for 
him  to  move  to  either  of  the  aforesaid  places ;  who  gave  their 
judgment  for  his  abiding  in  Bristol. 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  497 

Upon  the  17th  day  of  the  fourth  month,  Hester  Branch 
was  baptized,  and  with  her  sister  Rose  Teague  was  also  bap- 
tized in  the  river  Frome.  She  was  an  ancient  member  of 
the  congregation,  and  by  the  goodness  of  God  at  last  con- 
vinced of  a  long-neglected  duty.  Brother  Yauxe  adminis- 
trator. 

Upon  the  19th  of  the  aforesaid  month,  Hester  Branch  was 
received  a  member  into  the  church,  at  the  time  of  the  church's 
meeting  to  break  bread. 

Upon  the  14  th  of  the  month,  at  a  day  of  prayer  held  at 
brother  Gwilliam's,  at  Redcliffe  Hill,  the  church  considering 
their  pastor  Mr.  Vauxe's  weakness,  and  their  necessities, 
thought  good  to  lay  some  other  engagement  on  brother 
Whinnell  to  keep  him  amongst  them,  and  therefore  gave  him 
a  call  to  the  office  of  a  ruling  elder  and  teacher  to  this  church. 
To  which  call,  he  gave  the  church  this  following  answer. 

First,  That  they  had  somewhat  surprised  him,  their  call 
being  unexpected  by  him. 

Secondly,  That  he  looked  on  himself  altogether  unfit  to 
undertake  such  a  work  amongst  them,  for  divers  reasons 
known  to  himself. 

Thirdly,  That  his  circumstances  were  such  at  present, 
being  under,  as  he  supposed,  greater  calls  from  other  congre- 
gations, that  he  could  not  in  judgment  and  conscience  accept 
of  their  call. 

To  which  they  replied,  that  they  could  not  impose  it  on 
him,  but  would  leave  it  to  him  to  consider  of  it,  and  not  to 
think  of  leaving  the  church  here. 

Upon  the  24th  day  of  the  month,  there  came  two  friends 
from  the  Devizes  [church],  to  desire  the  congregation  to 
spare  brother  Whinnell  to  them ;  but  after  some  time  of  de- 
bate, the  church  still  refusing  to  spare  brother  Whinnell, 
brother  Gifford,  being  then  present,  told  the  friends  they  had 
gone  so  far  as  they  could,  and  that  now  the  matter  must  be 

K  K 


111F.    RECORDS 

left  wholly  to  be  determined  in  brother  Whinnell's  own 
mind. 

Upon  the  31st  day  of  this  month,  the  church  agreed  to 
send  the  following  answer  to  a  letter  from  the  church  at 
Taunton. 

To  the  church  of  Christ  at  Taunton. 

The  church   of  Christ   meeting  in   Broadmead,    in    the   city    of 
Bristol,  send  greeting  in  our  Lord. 

Dearly  beloved  Brethren. — We  salute  yon  in  our  Lord, 
wishing  grace,  mercy,  and  peace  may  be  multiplied  to  you  abun- 
dantly, through  the  knowledge  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ,  and  that  you  may  approve  of  things  that  are  excellent  in 
his  sight,  always  abounding  therein  to  the  praise  of  the  glory  of 
his  grace,  who  hath  called  you  to  grace  and  virtue. 

Now  these  are  to  let  you  understand,  that  we  have  lately 
received  a  letter  from  you,  with  many  names  affixed,  but  without 
date  (yet  the  truth  of  which  we  do  not  dispute),  wherein  you 
narrate  to  us  your  present  sad  and  lamentable  estate,  for  want  of 
one  to  administer  the  ordinances  of  Christ  to  you :  and  having 
sought,  as  you  say,  all  means  to  procure  one,  and  yet  cannot 
obtain,  you  make  it  your  earnest  desire  to  us,  that  we  would  spare 
our  brother  Whinnell, — of  whose  gifts  you  have  had  some  good  and 
comfortable  experience  of, — to  supply  that   place  amongst  you. 

We  must  now  answer,  having  weighed  what  vou  do  sav  therein  : 

1 .  Your  great  wants  as  a  church  of  Christ  of  such  a  minister. 

2.  The  great  call  of  others  in  that  place.  3.  The  great  encou- 
ragement of  doing  much  good  in  that  place.  All  which  we  do 
concern  ourselves  with  in  much  seriousness,  and  would  our  utmost 
to  further  in  anything  that  might  suit  with  our  own  well-being, 
and  the  glory  of  Christ  in  this  place.  But  as  to  the  person 
desired  by  you,  we  cannot  satisfy  ourselves  to  answer  your  desires 
therein,  lest  we  should  fall  under  the  same  complaints  as  you  do 
in  a  little  time.     But  in  the  next  place,  we  have  lately  parted  with 


OF    A    CHURCH    OF    CHRIST.  49(J 

one  ministering  brother  already,  to  the  church  at  Sodbury,  in 
their  sad  and  deplorable  estate  which  fell  upon  them  by  the  defect 
of  brother  Nobbs,  so  that  we  are  the  more  necessitated  to  keep  our 
brother  Whinnell  with  us.  Besides,  our  pastor  being  aged,  and 
under  such  infirmities  of  body  as  he  is,  that  sometimes  our  own 
meetings,  in  his  illness,  may  be  lost  for  the  present  if  we  have  not 
our  brother  Whinnell  to  supply  them,  and  help  carry  on  the  work 
here.  And  for  us  to  suffer  such  a  meeting,  in  such  a  populous 
city  as  this  is,  go  unsupplied  (as  once  it  did),  would  be  greatly  to 
the  dishonour  of  God,  and  that  which  our  adversaries  would  be 
glad  to  see,  who  we  are  not  willing  to  gratify  while  we  may  pre- 
vent it,  and  therefore  beseech  you  to  desist  any  further  suit  herein. 
But  besides,  our  brother  is  now  stated  in  the  church  a  teaching 
elder,  by  the  consent  and  choice  of  the  whole,  and  we  cannot 
make  our  own  act  void  again.  Neither  do  we,  for  reason  enough 
by  what  is  offered,  [wish]  so  to  do,  if  we  could.  Though  we 
really  pity  your  case,  and  should  be  glad  to  do  anything  we  can 
to  promote  the  glory  of  the  Lord  there,  that  may  stand  with  the 
glory  of  the  Lord  in  this  city,  where  we  are  most  immediately 
concerned  as  eye-witnesses  of.  We  commit  you  to  the  Lord,  and 
remain, 

Your  brethren  in  the  kingdom  and  patience  of  Christ. 

Signed  on  behalf  of  the  whole  church,  this  20th  July,  [16J87.5 

Upon  the  18th  day  of  the  7th  month,  being  our  day  for 
breaking  bread,  the  church  having  some  time  before  called 
our  beloved  brother,  Mr.  Thomas  Vauxe,  to  the  pastoral 
work  on  trial,  did  now  unanimously  give  him  their  approba- 

5  [Mr.  Whinnell  became,  however,  beloved."*  His  mind  was  always  calm 
pastor  of  the  church  in  Taunton  in  the  and  serene,  and  full  of  peace  when  he 
following  year,  where  he  lived  till  his  came  to  die.  He  published  one  sermon, 
death  in  the  year  1720.  He  was  deeply  entitled  "  The  Best  Portion,"  preached 
acquainted  with  the  word  of  God,  and  at  Exeter,  on  the  funeral  of  Mrs.  Man- 
was  of  a  cheerful  and  amiable  disposi-  Steed,  Nov.  16,  1699.  4to. — Murch's 
tion.  "  He  was  singularly  serviceable  History  of  Presbyterian  Churches,  &c. 
to  the  town  of  Taunton,  and  generally  p.  20L] 

K    K  2 


'  THE    RECORDS 


■■  Older  to  his  ordination,  which  was  signified  solemnlv 
by  their  suffrages,  or  lifting  np  their  hands.6 

Upon  the  13th  day  of  ihe  8th  month,  being  onr  day  of 
prayer  at  brothe  WhinnelTs,  sister  Williamson  and  sister 
Davis,  junior,  were  proposed  to  the  congregation,  and  declared 
tke  work  of  God  on  their  souls,  wherewith  the  church  was 
satisfied,  and  they  were  baptized  in  the  river  Frome,  the  day 
following,  by  brother  Yanxe,  and  received  as  members  the 
Lord's  day  following. 

Upon  the  10th  day  of  the  9th  month,  being  our  <L 
prayer,  at  brother  Bodenhanrs,  sister  Edith  Clark  was  pro- 
posed to  the  congregation,  and  made  profession  of  her  faith 
in  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  declared  her  experience  of  the  work 
of  grace  on  her  soul,  wherewith  the  church  was  satisfied. 
And  she  was  baptized  the  day  following,  by  brother  Vauxe  in 
the  river  Frome,  and  received  a  member  into  the  fellowship 
of  this  church   the  Lord's  day  following. 

A.D.  17^0.  Memorandum. — Can  find  mo  records  after  this, 
besides  a  Kttie,  page  13o.r  till  1720.  urken  I  began  again.— 
B.  Forket- 


et,  JL   54«.     FuDert 

7  [This  refer,  to  three  or  foor  uW 

-7-  ------  -  '---  '--■  •-    ?   -  ~  —      :-■■:    :-■■-:.  =-:   >;-:.  T;,  :-   a"-  7-.1 

"j--  --;---.-:-  ;-.--::::.        -----,.--_•     :..---..    .[-7-V-- 

■  '■■-    -----   -      :---:-:.:-.--.  --—:---  I- .  -'-'^ 

*■«  te  ««»"«*  «•      »«««4erthePwr«o.ofMr.Ter- 
l,iw>r>ai  ^u»aii  toH ■■■■!>,      rfll'i  beqne**.  Oa  the  ?2iid  Xorember, 
Mr.  Ebenezer  WDm       Mr.  Foaket  »  inrited,   bat  did  Bot 


Ei-ter.  *«  crxaen  pf      frj. 


■-•  Ba  ej  .-  Varai  bait] 


ADDENDA 


ADDENDA. 


A. 

Page  lxii. 

A  Supplication  of  certain  prisoners  in  England,  presented  to  the 
Queen,  but  not  received. 


Translated  from  "  Het  Bloedig  Toonel  of  Martelaers — Spiegel  der 
Doops-gesinde ;"  pp.  710,  7H>  vol.  ii.  edit.  1685. 


Reflecting  upon  the  praiseworthy  goodness  and  mercy  of  your 
majesty,  whose  renown  is  spread  far  and  wide,  among  all  nations,  for 
the  exercise  of  discretion  in  all  things,  but  particularly  in  matters  of 
religion  and  conscience,  and  of  late  verified  towards  our  companions  : 
We,  therefore,  poor  prisoners  and  strangers,  cast  ourselves  upon  your 
majesty,  that  it  may  please  you  to  exhibit  towards  us  the  same  mercy, 
since  we  are  in  like  case  and  condition,  and  holding  the  same  faith, 
which  we  here  humbly,  in  Christ,  present  to  your  majesty,  beseeching 
you,  for  Christ's  sake,  that  it  may  please  your  highness  to  peruse  the 
same,  and  according  to  your  wisdom  and  clemency,  perceiving  some 
trifling  differences,  mercifully  thereof  to  judge. 

We  testify  before  God  and  your  majesty,  that  were  we  in  our  con- 
sciences able  by  any  means  to  think  or  understand  the  contrary,  we 
would  with  all  our  hearts  receive  and  confess  it ;  since  it  were  a  great 
folly  in  us,  not  to  live  rather  in  the  exercise  of  a  right  faith,  than 
to  die,  perhaps,  in  a  false  one.  May  it  also  please  your  majesty  in 
your  wisdom  and  innate  goodness,  to  consider,  that  it  were  not  right, 
but  hypocrisy  in  us  to  speak  otherwise  than  with  our  hearts  we  believe, 
in  order  to  escape  the  peril  of  temporal  death  ;  that  it  is  impossible  to 


504  ADDENDA. 

believe  otherwise  than  we  in  our  consciences  think ;  and  also  that  it  is 
not  in  our  power  to  believe  this  or  that,  as  evil-doers  who  do  right  or 
wrong  as  they  please.  But  the  true  faith  must  be  implanted  in  the 
heart  of  man  by  God  ;  and  to  him  we  daily  pray,  that  he  would  give 
us  his  Spirit  to  understand  his  Avord  and  gospel. 

Above  all,  it  is  evident  to  your  majesty  that  we  have  not  sought  to 
stir  up  any  rebellions  or  seditions  against  your  majesty  ;  but,  much 
more,  have  daily  besought  the  Lord  for  your  happy  reign,  and  the 
welfare  both  of  your  soul  and  body.  Lastly,  we  have  not  endeavoured 
to  spread  our  faith  in  the  land.  This  we  could  not  do,  for  we  are 
only  unlearned  trades-people,  unskilled  in  divinity. 

These  and  many  other  reasons,  we  humbly  entreat  your  majesty  to 
take  into  consideration  to  our  advantage,  and  to  be  particularly  mind- 
ful of  your  laudable  and  princely  clemency,  admired  by  all  nations, 
and  ever  practised  in  all  things,  but  especially  in  matters  of  religion 
and  conscience. 

Signed  by  Hendrik  Terwoort,  Jan  Pieters,  Christian  Kernels, 
Gerrit  van  Byler,  Hans  van  Straten. 


Answer   to  the  Letter  of  John  Fox,  icritten  by  the  prisoners  in 
London,  1575. 

Mr.  Fox, 

Honoured  and  well-beloved  Sir, 

We  have  read  your  letter,  from  which  we  perceive  your  conde- 
scension in  entreating  both  her  majesty  and  her  council  on  our 
behalf.  We  thank  you  much  for  this,  as  we  do  also  for  your  kind  in- 
tentions, which  we  are  assured  arise  from  love,  albeit  that  you  seem  to 
us  to  have  written  somewhat  sharply.  But  from  the  good  zeal  you  bear 
towards  the  truth,  and  to  your  neighbours'  welfare,  we  cannot  other- 
wise regard  it  than  as  a  kind  action.  Nevertheless,  we  are  sorry 
that  you  do  not  understand  our  matter,  and  that  you  have  another 


ADDENDA.  505 

opinion  of  us  than  we  wish,  since  you  think  that  by  our  curiosity  and 
obstinacy  we  have  not  only  given  offence  to  the  church  of  God,  but 
also  provoked  God  himself,  and  frustrated  our  salvation.  What  rea- 
son you  have  thus  to  think  of  us,  we  know  not ;  nevertheless,  we 
can  assure  you,  that  we  seek  with  our  whole  hearts  to  serve  the  one 
God,  and  Christ,  in  a  good  conscience,  and  to  edify  our  neighbour,  as 
far  as  in  us  lies.  Therefore  we  gladly  receive  what  the  holy  scrip- 
ture testifies,  and  wish  to  be  permitted  to  adhere  to  the  plainness  and 
simplicity  of  the  word  of  God,  and  not  to  be  urged  farther  with 
subtle  questions,  which  our  feeble  understandings  are  not  able  to 
comprehend,  nor  by  scripture  to  justify. 

We  confess,  as  you  say,  that  Jesus  Christ,  the  son  of  the  living 
God,  became  or  was  born  truly  man,  of  the  virgin,  in  the  fulness  of 
time.  We  confess,  that  Christ  had  not  a  fantastical  or  false  body, 
but  true  human  flesb,  like  ours  in  all  things,  sin  only  excepted. 
That  he  is  the  promised  seed  of  the  woman,  the  son  of  David,  and 
the  offspring  of  Mary's  body.  Lastly,  we  believe  all  that  the  holy 
scriptures  have  testified  of  him.  And  whether  we  live  or  die,  we 
place  our  salvation,  not  in  our  works  or  holiness,  but  alone  on  his 
death  and  resurrection. 

We  cannot  sufficiently  wonder  what  more  they  would  require  of 
Christians ;  even  as  you  allege  from  the  apostle,  Tliongh  we  have 
known  Christ  after  the  flesh,  yet  now  henceforth  know  tee  him  no  more. 
Therefore  if  any  man  be  in  Christ,  he  is  a  new  creature.  Whereby 
the  apostle  sufficiently  acquaints  us,  that  we  ought  rather  to  mark  and 
appropriate  the  fruits  of  the  incarnation  and  sufferings  of  Christ,  than 
pertly  to  dispute  of  the  derivation  of  his  flesh.  Which  we,  never- 
theless, confess  so  far  as  scripture  has  testified  thereon,  being  satis- 
fied with  what  you  desire,  that  he  is  come  in  the  flesh.  Would  that 
the  people  were  also  content  with  that,  and  not  urge  us  to  confess 
that  Christ  derived  his  flesh  from  the  "  substance  of  the  Virgin 
Mary,"  which  we  can  neither  comprehend  nor  believe  ;  since  the 
word  ';  substance"  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  holy  scripture.  Yet  it 
is  concluded  against  us,  that  we  think  that  Christ  is  not  truly  man, 
and  in  short,  that  we  disown  our  salvation.  On  the  contrary,  love 
should  teach  them  to  conclude,  that  when  we  say,  Christ  had  human 
flesh   as    truly  as  our    first   lather,   Adam,  had  before  the  fall,  we 


506  ADDENDA. 

acknowledge  him  to  be  a  true  man,  and  our  Saviour  ;  as  we  particu 
larly  confess  in  explicit  terms. 

If  you  say,  that  you  find  little  or  no  difference  between  your 
faith  and  ours,  but  in  the  few  words  "  substance  of  Mary,"  and  that 
we  ought  not,  therefore,  obstinately  to  reject  them  :  we  answer, 
that  we  ought  not  to  be  driven  thereto  by  force,  but  our  infirmity  in 
this  matter  suffered,  since  we  are  not  able  in  our  consciences  to  think 
otherwise,  and  should  sin  greatly  against  God,  if  we  were  to  speak 
contrary  to  the  testimony  of  our  consciences.  Therefore,  if  they  put 
us  to  death,  which  we  hope  from  royal  clemency  may  not  happen,  we 
testify  before  God,  that  we  die  not  for  this  or  that  article,  which  if 
they  could  by  argument  make  us  to  understand,  we  would  with  all 
our  hearts  receive,  but  for  conscience  sake.  For,  if  it  were  clear 
that  we  did  well  in  acting  against  conscience,  yet  should  we  do  ill, 
and  give  witness  against  ourselves,  as  you  by  your  learning  may  much 
better  perceive,  than  we  weak  and  ignorant  people. 

Lastly,  we  are  men,  and  what  is  more,  unlearned  men,  who  can 
indeed  err.  Therefore,  we  will  always  behave  with  docility  towards 
those  who  by  scripture  can  teach  us  better.  But  if  they  will  drive  us 
thereto  by  fire  and  sword,  it  seems  to  us  to  be  vain,  and  to  fight 
against  reason.  For  it  is  indeed  possible  that  we  may  be  made  to 
speak  otherwise  than  we  think  through  fear  of  death ;  but  that  we 
should  think  differently  to  what  we  believe,  you  know  is  indeed 
impossible. 

Thus  they  who  treat  us  in  this  manner,  set  before  us  one  of  two 
things,  temporal  or  eternal  death.  Temporal,  if  we  adhere  to  what  our 
consciences  witness  to  be  right  and  true.  Eternal,  if  we  speak  contrary 
to  the  dictates  of  conscience.  But  we  have  better  hope  of  the  queen's 
clemency,  since  she  has  not  yet  thought  fit  to  put  any  to  death  for 
religion ;  knowing  well,  that  true  faith  is  a  special  gift  of  God  im- 
planted in  man,  not  by  fire  and  sword,  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  by 
the  preaching  of  the  pure  word  of  God. 

And  we  ought  indeed  to  consider,  that  aforetime  we  all  have  been 
heretics,  and  if  we  had  then  been  put  to  death,  both  body  and  soul 
must  have  perished.  But  we  will  here  make  an  end ;  thanking  you 
for  the  trouble  you  have  been  pleased  to  take  for  us,  and  entreating 
you  to  do  the  best  you  can  in  our  business  with  the  council,  an 


ADDENDA.  507 

especially  with  the  queen's  majesty.  And  were  our  case  rightly  known 
to  her,  we  doubt  not  but  she  would,  after  her  excellent  wisdom  and 
wonted  clemency,  mercifully  spare  our  lives.  Nevertheless,  we  gladly 
yield  her  majesty  all  reverence  and  submission,  praying  for  her  a  long 
life,  and  happy  reign. 

Signed  by  Gerrit  van  Byler,  Hendrik  Terwoort,  Hans  van  Straten, 
Jan  Pieters,  Christian  Kernels. 


The  following  Confession  was  written  whilst  Terwoort  and  Peters 
were  in  the  Marshalsea,  "  for  the  witness  of  Jesus  Christ,"  to  remove 
the  many  slanderous  accusations  which  were  circulated  concerning 
their  faith.  It  is  probable  that  it  was  either  in  whole  or  in  part  the 
Confession  delivered  in  at  their  first  examination.  They  revised 
and  signed  it  on  the  eve  of  their  martyrdom.  It  is  given  entire,  as  it 
throws  much  light  on  the  general  orthodoxy  of  the  baptists  at  that 
period. 


"  Het  Bloedig  Toonel,"  p.  704—706. 


This  is  the  Confession  of  our  belief  in  God,  our  heavenly  Father. 

1.  We  believe  in  one  God,  the  Father  Almighty,  Maker  of 
heaven  and  earth,  as  it  is  written,  Gen.  i.  ]  ;  in  whom  Abraham, 
Isaac,  Jacob,  Moses,  and  all  the  prophets  believed.     Heb.  xi. 

2.  We  believe  in  Jesus  Christ,  the  only  Son  of  the  Father,  who  wa3 
in  the  beginning  with  God.  John  i.  1.  And  when  the  time  was  ful- 
filled, Micah  v.  2,  1  John  i.  1,2,  which  God  had  promised,  Gal.  iv.  4, 
the  Word  was  made  flesh,  Gen.  iii.  15,  Isa.  vii.  14,  John  i.  14,  and 
born  of  the  seed  of  David,  Rom.  i.  3,  of  the  un defiled  Virgin  Mary, 
being  betrothed  to  a  man  whose  name  was  Joseph,  of  the  seed  of 
David,  Matt.  i.  18,  Luke  i.  and  ii.  blessed  among  women,  Luke  i.  28. 
We  believe  that  this  true  Son  of  God,  with  many  signs  and  wonders 


508  ADDENDA. 

which  he  did,  announced  to  us  the  word  of  his  Father,  John  xv.  24. 
And  after  this,  was  betrayed  into  the  hands  of  the  Jews,  was 
crucified  under  Pontius  Pilate,  died,  and  was  buried.  Matt,  xxvii.  1  ; 
Mark  xv.  1  ;  Luke  xxiii.  1 ;  John  xviii, 

3.  We  believe  that  this  same  Jesus  Christ  is  truly  God  and  man, 
and  for  our  sins  voluntarily  laid  down  his  life,  Isa.  liii.  7-  When  we 
were  his  enemies,  he  suffered  a  bitter  death  for  us,  Rom.  v.  8 ;  that 
they  wrho  believe  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life, 
John  iii.  6. 

4.  We  believe  also  that  this  our  Saviour  has  risen  from  the  dead, 
Matt,  xxviii.  6,  Mark  xvi.  6,  Luke  xxiv.  6,  John  xx.  9,  as  he  had 
foretold,  Matt.  xvii.  9,  Mark  ix.  9,  Luke  ix.  22,  and  sits  at  the  right 
hand  of  his  Father,  Mark  xvi,  Acts  vii.  55. 

5.  We  believe  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  John  xv.  26,  as  it  is  written, 
1  John  v.  7>  saying,  There  are  three  that  bear  record  in  heaven,  the 
Father^  the  Word,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  these  three  are  one. 

6.  We  believe  also  in  the  communion  of  saints,  1  John  i.  3, 
whose  prayers  avail  much  for  us,  James  v.  16.  We  believe  also  in  the 
holy  church,  of  which  are  they  who  believe  in  Jesus  Christ,  baptized 
by  one  spirit  into  one  body,  as  Paul  says,  1  Cor.  xii.  13.  And  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  head  thereof,  that  is,  of  the  holy  church,  as  it  is  written 
Eph.  v.  23,  and  Col.  i.  18.  We  believe  that  this  holy  church  has 
power  to  open  and  to  shut,  to  loose  and  to  bind ;  and  whatsoever  they 
loose  on  earth  is  loosed  in  heaven,  Matt.  xvi.  19,  and  whatsoever  they 
bind  on  earth  is  bound  in  heaven.  We  believe  also  that  God  has 
ordained  in  his  holy  church,  apostles,  prophets,  and  teachers,  1  Cor. 
xii.  28,  bishops,  and  deacons,  1  Tim.  iii.  2,  8. 

7.  We  believe  and  confess  also  baptism  in  the  name  of  the  Father, 
and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  as  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has 
commanded  and  ordained,  Matt,  xxviii.  19 ;  and  was  practised  by  the 
apostles,  Actsii.  38,  41  ;  and  as  they  have  written  thereof,  Rom.  vi.  3, 
1  Cor.  xii.  13,  Gal.  iii.  27,  Eph.  iv.  5,  and  1  Pet.  iii.  21.  We  believe 
that  they  who  are  baptized,  are  members  of  the  body  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  of  the  holy  church. 

8.  Of  the  holy  supper  of  Jesus  Christ,  we  believe  and  confess 
even  as  Christ  has  taught ;  as  it  is  written,  Matt.  xxvi.  26,  And  at 
they  were  eating,  Jeeu*  i<><>L   bread,  ami  bleettd  if,  and  brake  it,  ami 


ADDENDA. 


509 


gave  it  to  the  disciples,  and  said,  Take  eat ;  this  is  my  body.  And  he 
took  the  cup,  and  gave  thanks,  and  gave  it  to  them,  saying,  Drink  ye 
all  of  it ;  for  this  is  my  blood  of  the  New  Testament,  which  is  shed  for 
many  for  the  remission  of  sins,  Mark  xiv.  24  ;  this  do  in  remembrance 
of  me,  Luke  xxii.  19  We  believe  as  Paul  testifies,  saying,  The  cup 
of  blessing  which  we  bless,  is  it  not  the  communion  of  the  blood  of 
Christ  ?  The  bread  which  we  break,  is  it  not  the  communion  of  the 
body  of  Christ  ?  1  Cor.  x.  16.  Whoso  eateth  my  flesh,  and  drinketh 
my  blood,  hath  eternal  life ;  and  I  will  raise  him  up  at  the  last  day, 
John  vi.  54. 

9.  We  confess  and  believe  that  marriage  is  an  ordinance  of  God,  as 
we  read,  Gen.  ii.  24.  One  man  and  one  woman  joining  together  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  in  the  holy  church.  1  Cor.  vii.  2.  For  this  cause 
shall  a  man  leave  father  and  mother,  and  shall  cleave  to  his  wife;  and 
they  twain  shall  be  one  flesh.  Wherefore  they  are  no  more  twain,  but 
one  flesh.  What  therefore  God  hath  joined  together,  let  not  man  put 
asunder,  Matt.  xix.  5,  6.  For  marriage  is  honourable  to  all,  and  the 
bed  undefiled  ;  but  whoremongers  and  adulterers  God  will  judge,  Heb. 
xiii.  4. 

10.  We  believe  and  confess  that  magistrates  are  set  and  ordained  of 
God,  Wisd.  vi.  4,  Sirach  xvii.  18,  Rom.  xiii.  1,  to  punish  the  evil, 
and  to  protect  the  good  ;  which  magistracy  we  from  our  hearts 
desire  to  obey,  as  it  is  written  in  the  first  of  Peter,  ii.  13,  Submit 
yourselves  to  every  ordinance  of  man  for  the  Lord's  sake.  For  he 
beareth  not  the  sword  in  vain,  Rom.  xiii.  4.  And  Paul  teaches  us 
that  we  should  offer  up  for  all,  prayers,  intercessions,  and  giving  of 
thanks  for  all  kings  and  magistrates  ;  that  we  may  lead  a  quiet  and 
peaceable  life  in  all  godliness  and  honesty.  For  this  is  good  and 
acceptable  in  the  sight  of  God  our  Saviour,  who  desires  that  all  men 
shoidd  be  saved,  1  Tim.  ii.  1,  2,  3,  4.  He  further  teaches  us  to  be 
subject  to  principalities  and  powers,  to  obey  magistrates,  and  to  be  ready 
to  every  good  work,  Pet.  iii.  1 .  Therefore  we  pray  your  majesty  kindly 
to  understand  aright  our  meaning ;  which  is,  that  we  do  not  despise 
the  eminent,  noble,  and  gracious  queen,  and  her  wise  councils,  but 
esteem  them  as  worthy  of  all  honour,  to  whom  we  desire  to  be  obedient 
in  all  things  that  we  may.  For  we  confess  with  Paul,  as  above,  that 
she  is  God's  servant,  and  that  if  we  resist  this  power,  we  resist  the 


510  ADDENDA. 

ordinance  of  God;  for  rulers  are  not  a  terror  to  good  works,  but 
to  the  evil.  Therefore  we  confess  to  be  due  unto  her,  and  are  ready 
to  give,  tribute,  custom,  honour,  and  fear,  as  Christ  himself  has  taught 
us,  saying,  Render  unto  Ccesar  the  things  ichich  are  Ccesar's,  awl  unto 
God  the  things  that  are  God's.  Since,  therefore,  she  is  a  servant  of 
God,  we  will  kindly  pray  her  majesty,  that  it  would  please  her  to  show 
pity  to  us  poor  prisoners,  even  as  our  Father  in  heaven  is  pitiful, 
Luke  vi.  36.  We  likewise  do  not  approve  of  those  who  resist  the 
magistrates ;  but  confess  and  declare  with  our  whole  heart,  that  we 
must  be  obedient  and  subject  unto  them,  as  we  have  here  set  down. 

11.  Further,  if  any  should  ask  us,  why  we  will  not  swear  an 
oath  ?  We  answer,  that  we  have  not  liberty  in  our  consciences  to  do 
this,  since  it  is  written  in  Matt.  v.  33,  that  Christ  said,  Ye  have  heard 
that  it  hath  been  said  of  them  of  old  time,  T/iou  shalt  not  forswear 
thyself  but  shall  perform  unto  the  Lord  thine  oaths  ;  but  I  say  unto 
you,  Swear  not  at  all ;  neither  by  heaven,  for  it  is  God's  throne  ;  nor 
by  the  earth,  for  it  is  his  footstool ;  neither  by  Jerusalem,  for  it  is  the  city 
of  the  great  King.  Neither  shalt  thou  swear  by  thy  head,  because  thou 
canst  not  make  one  hair  white  or  black.  But  let  your  communication 
be,  Yea,  yea  ;  Nay,  nay  !  for  whatsoever  is  more  than  these  cometh 
of  evil.  Thus  also  the  apostle  James  teaches  in  the  fifth  chapter, 
saying,  Above  all  things,  my  brethren,  swear  not,  neither  by  heaven, 
neither  by  the  eafth,  neither  by  any  other  oath  :  but  let  your  yea  be 
yea  ;  and  your  nay,  nay.  For  these  reasons  we  will  not,  we  dare  not, 
swear. 

12.  We  believe  in  the  resurrection  of  the  dead,  as  it  is  written, 
Isaiah  xxvi.  19,  John  xi.  25,  Dan.  xii.  2,  John  xv.  25,  in  the  first 
epistle  to  the  Corinthians,  xv.  22,  1  Thess.  iv.  16.  That  we  shall  rise 
from  the  dead  in  our  own  bodies,  Job  xix.  25,  Isaiah  xxvi.  19,  1  Cor. 
xv.  When  the  Lord  shall  come  in  the  clouds  with  his  angels,  then 
shall  each  one  be  judged  according  to  his  works  ;  Matt.  xxv.  34, 
Rom.  ii.  6. 

13.  We  believe  all  that  is  contained  both  in  the  Old  and  in  the 
New  Testaments. 

And  now  we  poor  prisoners  humbly  pray,  that  wherein  we  may  have 
misbehaved  towards  her  majesty  or  her  subjects,  it  may  be  forgiven,  and 
that  mercy  may  be  shown  to  us  even  as  our  Father  in  heaven  is  mer- 


ADDENDA.  511 

ciful ;  for  we  are  a  poor  and  lowly  people,  of  little  knowledge  and 
understanding,  and  it  is  our  sorrow  that  we  are  not  able  to  write 
more  courteously.  Therefore  we  pray  your  highness,  that  your 
majesty  will  receive  graciously  this  our  simple  confession.  We  com  - 
mend  your  royal  majesty  to  the  Lord ;  Acts  xx.  32.  The  Lord 
be  with  you  and  us.     Amen. 

In  our  prison  in  London,  the  21st  of  July,  in  the  year  of  our 
Lord,  1575. 

By  me,  Hendrik  Terwoort. 
By  me,  Jan  Pieters. 


Page  7- 
Mr.   HENRY   MORRIS,2 

Minister  of  the  gospel  in  Wales,  his  account  of  the   number  of  the 

churches  in  Wales  and  their  pastors. 

1675. 

A  Catalogue  of  all  the  congregated  churches  in  the  general  counties 

of  Wales,  together  with  the  names  of   their  pastors  and  other 

church  officers. 

Anglesey. — There  hath  not  been  any  church  in  this  county  of 
the  constitution  aforesaid,  nor  any  number  of  people  professing 
religion,  in  the  power  and  strictness  of  it,  joining  with  any  church 
elsewhere,  in  all  these  late  times. 

3  [Although  Mr.  Terrill,  in  his  en-  by  losses  and  imprisonments.  For  a 
dorsement  on  this  paper,  thus  spells  the  time  he  laboured  in  Shropshire,  remov- 
name,  it  is  most  probable  that  the  Mr.  ing  thence  to  Abergavenny,  where  he 
Henry  Maurice  mentioned  in  it  is  its  died  in  1682.  By  Crosby  he  is  men- 
author.  This  gentleman  left  the  estab-  tioned  as  a  baptist,  in  which  the  late 
lished  church,  after  conforming  for  a  Joshua  Thomas  of  Leominster  concurs, 
time,  under  the  Act  for  Uniformity,  and  Thomas,  MSS.  p.  256;  Crosby,  ii.  lvii. 
suffered  much  for  his  conscientious  act,  iv.  251.] 


512  ADDENDA. 

Brecknockshire. — The  only  church  in  this  county  is  that  which 
commonly  meets  at  Llanigon,  of  which  Henry  Maurice  is  pastor 
elect;  Charles  Lloyd,  Thomas  Gwyn,  David  "Williams,  Henry 
Williams,  Richard  Jones,  William  Howell,  ordained  elders;  and 
Lewis  Prytherch  [[or  Protheroe],  elder  elect.  There  are  also  four 
deacons.  The  church  consisting  mostly  of  independents  in  judgment, 
and  partly  of  baptists :  their  communion  being  founded  upon  union 
unto  Christ  as  far  as  may  be,  according  to  the  rule  of  gospel 
love.  There  are  two  rather  small  parties  of  more  rigid  baptists  in 
this  county.  The  one  of  them  is  joined  with  those  of  Llandewi  in 
Radnorshire. —  Vide  Monmouth  and  Radnorshire. 

Cardiganshire. — There  are  general  parties  of  people  professing 
godliness  in  this  county,  yet  but  one  entire  church  in  it :  namely, 
that  which  meets  at  LlanQ>adarnvawr],  being  the  first  original 
gathered  church  in  this  country,  of  the  judgment  commonly  called 
independent,  but  very  moderate.  Mr.  David  Jones,  of  PenQmn], 
is  their  pastor ;  Morgan  Howells  and  Evan  Hughes,  elders ;  John 
Jones,  elder  elect,  together  with  some  deacons.  There  are  also  here 
a  party  of  baptists,  under  imposition  of  hands,  that  are  joined  to 
Mr.  William  Jones's  church  in  Carmarthenshire,  whereof  hereafter. 
There  are  also  here  several  members  of  Mr.  Stephen  Hughes's 
church  ;  namely,  Carmarthenshire. 

Carmarthenshire. — Mr.  Stephen  Hughes,  aforesaid  is  a  pastor 
of  the  original  church  that  was  in  this  county,  and  are  properly  inde- 
pendent in  their  judgment,  not  much  differing  from  presbyterian. 
The  names  of  their  officers  I  do  not  know,  only  Mr.  William  Floyd, 
a  blind  man  and  yet  seeing,  is  one  that  teaches  commonly  amongst 
them,  as  also  Mr.  David  Jones.      Vide  Glamorganshire. 

There  is  also  a  church  of  a  later  standing  here,  whereof  Mr.  Wil- 
liam Jones,  aforesaid,  is  pastor,  Gryftyth  Howells  and  Thomas 
[]David  Rees],  elders.  Their  other  officers  I  cannot  name.  As  for 
their  judgment,  see  Cardiganshire.  Their  meeting-place  is  at  Llan- 
fair,  upon  the  borders  of  Pembrokeshire,  sometimes  also  in  Cardigan- 
shire, and  sometimes  hard  by  Narberth  in  Pembrokeshire. 

There   is  also  another  church,  consisting  of  baptists   for  the  most 


ADDENDA.  513 

part,  but  for  free  communion,  who  meet  at  Llanfair  y  Eryn,  near 
Llanddyfri  in  this  county.  They  were  called  at  first  by  the  ministry 
of  Mr.  Jenkyn  Jones,  and  gathered  as  part  of  the  church  in 
Llanigon  in  Breconshire.  Vide  Brecknockshire.  But  they  were 
scattered,  and  lay  desolate  for  a  time,  yet  now  of  late  they  are  much 
revived,  and  have  rallied  together  again.  They  intend  to  make  choice 
of  Mr.  Rees  Prytherch,  a  worthy,  well  qualified  person,  for  their 
pastor.  Other  officers  they  have  none,  except  it  be  one  deacon. 
There  is  also  another  party  of  professing  people,  in  a  remote  gorner 
joining  upon  Glamorganshire;  namely,  at  Llangenych.  Some  of 
these  are  part  of  Mr.  Stephen  Hughes's  church  aforesaid ;  another 
part,  being  baptists,  do  join  with  those  in  Glamorganshire,  as  you  may 
see  further  in  the  account  given  of  that  county. 

Caernarvonshire. — The  original  and  only  gathered  church  here 
is  that  which  meets  commonly  at  Llanarmon  and  Llangyfr,  in  this 
county,  which  was  called  by  the  ministry  of  Mr.  John  Williams, 
lately  deceased,  and  gathered  by  him.  They  are  wholly  independent 
in  judgment,  except  it  be  one  member,  and  that  none  of  the  meanest 
of  them  for  zeal  and  godliness,  that  is  a  baptist.  His  name  is 
Thomas  Williams,  who  lived  in  London  several  years  of  late.  They 
are  destitute  of  a  pastor  at  present,  only  one  William  Rowlands  is 
their  teaching  elder,  together  with  Thomas  Williams  and  some  others, 
exercising  their  gifts  among  them. 

Denbighshire. — The  first  foundation  of  a  gospel  ministry  here 
was  laid  by  Mr.  Walter  Cradock,  at  a  town  called  Wrexham,  and 
was  afterwards  gathered  into  gospel  order  by  Mr.  Morgan  Floyd. 
Now  since  their  late  removal  and  renewal,  Mr.  John  Evans,  a  person 
of  great  sobriety  and  godliness,  is  their  pastor.  Mr.  John  Brown, 
Captain  William  Wynne,  Philip  Rogers,  and  others,  elders ;  Evan 
Roberts  with  others,  deacons.  They  were  independents  in  judgment 
from  the  beginning,  yet  are  they  very  moderate,  so  that  some  few 
baptists  are  of  their  society. 

There  was  also  a  gathered  presbyterian  church  at  Denbigh  town, 
whereof  Mr.  William  Jones  was  pastor.     But  how  they  stand  now 

L   L 


514  ADDENDA. 

I  cannot  give  any  perfect  account  of  it.     And  some  of  Wrexham 
church  do  meet  ....  near  Chirke  Castle 

Flintshire. — Here  has  been  no  professing  people  in  all  these  late 
times,  except  it  be  some  few  ancient  followers  of  the  ministry  of  the 
word,  who  never  joined  into  any  gathered  church,  until  now  of  late, 
within  these  four  years,  it  pleased  the  Lord  to  send  the  ministry  of 
the  gospel  among  them,  which,  through  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  of 
the  harvest,  so  prevailed,  as  that  they  have  a  constant  private  meeting 
among  them  at  this  time.  The  few  old  hearts  that  were  alive  are 
revived,  many  young  ones  called,  a  party  whereof  are  joined  to  Wrex- 
ham church,  within  this  twelve  months,  and  another  party  do  walk 
with  Mr.  William  Jones  aforesaid,  who  lives  in  that  neighbourhood. 
Vide  Denbigh.  They  are  in  the  whole  between  twenty  and  thirty  ; 
and  are  most  of  them  independent  in  judgment,  some  leaning  to- 
wards presbytery. 

Glamorganshire. —  The  first  gathered  churches  in  this  county 
were  those  of  Merthyr,  which  is  part  now  of  Llanigon  church.  Vide 
Brecknock.  And  also  the  church  that  meets  at  Swansea,  gathered 
at  first  by  Mr.  Ambrose  Mostyn.  They  are  all  independent  in  judg- 
ment for  aught  I  know,  Mr.  Higgs  being  their  pastor,  Mr.  William 
Jones  and  others  their  elders. 

There  is  another  church,  commonly  called  the  church  of  Cadog- 
stone,  who  meet  now  commonly  at  Bagland,  Mr.  Robert  Thomas  being 
their  pastor  ;  Jacob  Christopher  and  Richard  Cratlock,  their  teaching 
elders.  What  other  officers  they  have  I  know  not.  Their  judgment 
is  independent.  Some  of  them  [are]  baptists,  as  hath  been  affirmed. 
Part  of  them  also  lie  about  Llangweldelan,  as  also  about  Kynffig  in 
the  said  county.  There  are  also  several  scattered  baptists  inhabiting 
about  Gowre's  land,  Llangwddelan,  the  borders  of  Carmarthenshire, 
as  also  about  Bagland,  who  make  up,  as  I  suppose,  one  church.  Lewis 
Thomas,  Howell  Thomas,  if  he  be  alive,  and  Thomas  Joseph,  being 
their  teachers.  I  cannot  certainly  determine  whether  they  have  any 
chosen  pastor  or  other  officers  among  them. 

There  is  also  another  gathered  church  of  baptists,  who  met  hereto- 
fore at  Llantrissant,  in  this  county,  but  do  now  commonly  meet  at 


ADDENDA.  515 

Gelly  Gaer,  whose  pastor,  Thomas  John  [or  Jones],  an  honest,  mode- 
rate, useful  man,  is  lately  deceased.  Captain  Evans,  Mr.  Evan 
Thomas,  are  the  chief  among  them  ;  but  who  their  officers  be  at 
present,  I  do  not  so  fully  know.  Part  of  this  church  also  do  com- 
monly meet  at  Craig  y  Allt. 

One  Mr.  Samuel  Jones,  supposed  to  be  presbyterian  in  judgment, 
but  a  godly,  well-qualified,  moderate  person,  has  gathered  a  church 
within  these  two  or  three  years  at  Llangynogfawr,  in  this  county. 
What  their  constitution  is,  and  what  officers  they  have,  I  cannot  give 
an  account  of  it. 

Merionethshire. — The  few  professing  people  that  were  heretofore 
in  this  country  were  joined  either  to  Wrexham  church,  or  else  to  Mr. 
Vavasor  Powell's  that  met  in  Montgomeryshire,  whereof  hereafter  ; 
but  since  the  change  most  of  them  turned  quakers,  and  so  continue. 
Yet  of  their  elders,  one  Mr.  Hugh  Owen,  ....  a  kinsman  of  Dr. 
Owen's,  is  settled  in  that  county,  and  being  ordained  a  teaching 
elder  of  Wrexham  church,  is  sent  to  those  parts  to  exercise  his 
ministry ;  so  that  of  late,  the  Lord  helping  them  to  be  faithful  and 
diligent  in  the  Lord's  vineyard,  and  crowning  his  labours  with  a  con- 
siderable blessing,  they  are  about  gathering  them  into  church  order, 
whereof  I  can  give  no  certain  account  as  yet,  only  that  there  are 
none  in  all  that  county,  that  I  know  of,  that  are  otherwise  than 
of  an  independent  judgment,  except  the  new  crew  of  quakers 
aforesaid. 

Monmouthshire. — The  original  church  gathered  in  this  county, 
was  the  first  in  all  Wales  that  I  can  hear  of.  Holy  and  reverend 
Mr.  Wroth  was  the  first  gospel  preacher  here.  The  ancient,  original 
materials  of  a  church,  were  called  by  his  ministry,  and  cast  into  the 
mould  of  church  order,  according  to  the  New  England  way,  in  his 
days.  After  his  decease,  Mr.  Walter  Cradock  was  chosen  pastor  of 
it,  who  was  assistant  before  to  old  Mr.  Wroth.  After  some  time  the 
church  was  divided  into  two  parts,  which  so  continues  to  this  day, 
and  are,  indeed,  two  numerical  distinct  churches ;  the  one  whereof 
meets  at  Llantrissant,  or  Llangwyne,  in  this  county ;  which  con- 
sisted mostly  of  baptists^  if  not  almost  all>  but  are  in  judgment  for 

ll2 


516  ADDENDA. 

free  communion  with  saints  as  saints.  Their  pastor  elect  is  Mr. 
Thomas  Quarrell,  who  was  chosen  now  of  late  since  Mr.  William 
Thomas's  death,  their  late  pastor,  and  repairer  of  their  desolations 
that  happened  to  them  since  the  change.  Mr.  Christopher  Price, 
physician,  Captain  Robert  Jones,  and  Mr.  Milman  being  elders. 
The  other  church  is  that  which  meets  commonly  at  Magor,  in  the 
Moors,  towards  Severn  Sea.  Mr.  Thomas  Barnes  is  pastor  thereof; 
Mr.  Samuel  Jones,  Major  Blethyn,  and  Mr.  Rumsay,  as  I  take  it, 
are  the  elders.  They  are,  I  suppose,  wholly  independent  in  judg- 
ment.    Other  officers  they  may  have,  which  I  cannot  name, 

The  second  gathered  church  that  was  in  this  county  from  the 
beginning,  is  that  whereof  Mr.  Henry  Walter  is  pastor,  who,  by  his 
ministry  at  Mynyth-yst-lwyn,  was  the  instrument  to  call  most  or  all 
of  the  original  members  thereof.  He  did  also  bring  them  to  church 
order,  and  continues  still  their  pastor.  Mr.  John  Powell  and  Watkin 
Jones  are  teaching  elders.  The  members  of  the  church  lie  scattered 
about  Mynyth-yst-lwyn  aforesaid,  Newport,  and  Blaynen-gwent. 
They  are  altogether  of  an  independent  judgment,  except  some  few 
baptists  that  be  of  their  church ;  but  they  are  moderate  and  free  in 
their  communion. 

The  third  church,  that  was  of  a  later  date  than  any  of  the  former, 
is  that  which  meets  at  Llan-we-narth,  near  Abergavenny.  They 
were  at  first,  as  far  as  I  know,  wholly  consisting  of  baptists ;  but, 
after  that  persuasion  about  imposition  of  hands  prevailed  among 
them,  they  divided.  For  that  party  that  were  only  for  baptism, 
joined  in  time  with  the  church  of  Llantrissant  aforesaid,  and  so  con- 
tinued walking  with  them.  The  other  party,  for  imposition  of 
hands  continued  still  by  themselves.  William  John  Prichard, 
Francis  Gyles,  David  James,  being  their  teaching  elders. 

There  are  some  members  of  this  people  about  Llaney-gwent  in 
this  county;  some  others  in  Brecknockshire  aforesaid,  and  some 
about  Olchon,  in  Herefordshire.  Thomas  Watkins  being  their 
teacher  there. 

Montgomeryshire. — The  only  gathered  church  in  this  county 
was  that  whereof  Vavasor  Powell  was  pastor.  It  was  by  his 
ministry  that  they  were  originally  called,  and  by  him  gathered  into 


ADDENDA.  .517 

church  order.  Upon  his  great  Trials  and  troubles  it  was  much 
scattered,  and  made  desolate ;  but  there  is  a  remnant  of  it  survived 
and  rallied  together  again,  who  have  chosen  Mr.  Henry  "Williams,  a 
great  and  faithful  sufferer  in  late  times,  to  be  their  pastor.  Worthy 
Captain  Richard  Prise,  their  elder  and  pillar,  is  dead  this  last  year. 
Walter  Griffiths  is  another  elder,  as  I  take  it.  What  other  officers 
they  have,  I  cannot  give  any  certain  account  of  it.  These  are  bap- 
tists in  judgment,  for  the  most  part,  yet  many  of  them  otherwise  ;  but 
they  are  for  a  free  communion. 

Pembrokeshire. — The  only  church  extant  at  this  time  in  this 
county,  is  that  which  meets  at  or  about  Haverfordwest,  which  was 
gathered  at  first  by  Mr.  Peregrine  Phillips,  who  is  still  the  pastor  of 
it.  It  has  been  much  shattered  of  late  years  between  the  troubles 
of  the  times  and  the  quakers.  Captain  Longman,  as  I  take  it,  is 
elder  of  it,  and  Hugh  Harris  deacon.  They  are  independent  in 
their  judgment.  What  baptists  be  in  this  county,  do  join  with  Mr. 
William  Jones's  people,  who  meet  in  the  borders  of  Carmarthen- 
shire.     Vide  Carmarthenshire]. 

There  was  another  gathered  church  here  before  the  late  changes, 

when  Warren  was  pastor,  teaching  elder.     But  the 

pastor  and  teacher  returned  to  England  upon  the  change,  so  that 
this  church  was  so  dissipated  between  the  world  and  the  quakers, 
that  it  is  long  since  extinct ;  except  some  few  that  continued  faith- 
ful, who  have  since  joined  with  the  church  at  Haverfordwest. 

In  Pembrokeshire  there  is  a  small  company,  lately  gathered  into 
church  order  by  Mr.  James  Davis,  a  moderate  presbyterian,  for 
anything  I  know.  These  meet  at  Captain  Jenkin  Jones's  house, 
which  Mr.  Jones  is  a  teacher  among  them.  These  people,  or  most  of 
them,  at  least,  were  in  church  order  before,  being  gathered  originally 
by  Mr.  Charles  Price,  who  was  their  pastor,  and  so  continued  till 
the  scattering  times  came. 

Radnorshire. — The  first  man  that  laid  the  foundation  of  a  gospel 
work  here,  was  Mr.  Walter  Cradock,  who  preached  for  some  con- 
tinued time  at  Llanfair. , on  the  border  of  this  county.     Then,  after 

his   time,   Mr.  Vavasor  Powell  carried  on  the  work,  and  gathered 


518  ADDENDA. 

here  a  church,  a  remnant  whereof  remaineth  until  this  day,  and 
have  renewed  their  communion  within  these  three  or  four  years  as  a 
gospel  church.  They  have  no  chosen  pastor  as  yet,  only  Mr.  Henry 
AVilliams,  pastor  of  the  church  in  Montgomeryshire,  assisteth  them, 
pro  tempore,  in  their  church  meeting,  for  the  most  part ;  and  some- 
times Henry  Maurice,  pastor  of  the  church  at  Llanigon,  in  Breck- 
nockshire, dispenseth  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  among  them. 
This  church  consisteth  partly  of  independents,  and  partly  of  baptists. 
John  \_ James],  Maurice  Griffyths  elders,  Edward  Owens  deacon. 

There  is  another  people  in  the  west  end  of  this  county,  who  are 
baptist  in  judgment,  and  Arminians  also  for  the  most  part.  They 
meet  at  Peter  Gregory's  house,  Henry  Gregory  being  their  teaching 

elder.     Jeremy  lived  for  some  time  amongst  these  people. 

Some  part  of  them  live  in  the  north  part  of  Brecknockshire,  as 
aforesaid. 

There  is  also  a  late  congregation  gathered  by  Mr.  QWeans]  of 
New  Radnor,  a  presbyterian,  nonconforming  minister;  but  I  can 
give  no  account  of  their  officers. 

Mercy  and  peace  be  on  all  them  that  love  the  Lord  Jesus  in  sin- 
ceritv-     Amen. 


C 

Page  30. 

Colonel  Nathaniel  Fiennes,  after  three  days'  siege  only,  surrendered 
the  city ;  for  which  he  was  sentenced  by  a  council  of  war  to  lose 
his  life,  but  was  pardoned  by  Lord  Essex.  During  the  trial  Mrs. 
Ilassard  gave  the  following  evidence  : — 

THE    TESTIMONY    OF    D0RATIIY    IIASSARD, 

I  Dorathy  Ilassard,  wife  of  Matthew  Hassard,  of  Saint  Ewins,  in 
the  city  of  Bristol!,  do  testifie  upon  my  oath,  that  I  was  in  the  said 
city  during  the  late  siege  thereof,  when  Colonell  Nathaniel  Fiennes 
was  governor  there,  and  that  I  did  send  into  the  castle  of  Bristoll 
during  the  siege  thereof,  above  three  months'  provision  for  our  family 
there,  and  a  great  part  of  our  estate,  hoping  the  same  would  be  there 


ADDENDA.  519 

preserved,  and  the  castle  defended  to  the  utmost,  according  to  divers 
promises  by  the  governor  to  defend  the  same,  as  we  were  informed 
by  divers  of  our  friends:  and  that  when  the  news  came  into  the 
sayd  city  on  the  Wednesday  morning,  that  some  of  the  enemies  were 
entred  within  the  line,  this  deponent  with  divers  other  women,  and 
maydes,  with  the  helpe  of  some  men,  did,  with  wool-sacks  and  earth, 
stop  up  Froome  gate,  to  keep  out  the  enemy  from  entring  into  the 
sayd  city,  being  the  only  passage  by  which  the  enemy  must  enter, 
and  when  they  had  so  done,  they,  the  sayd  women,  went  to  the 
gunners  (this  deponent  being  one  of  them),  and  told  them  that  if 
they  would  stand  out  and  fight,  they  would  stand  by  them,  and  told 
them  that  they  should  not  want  for  provision ;  during  which  time 
the  said  governor  treated  with  the  enemies,  and  beyond  their  expect- 
ation, yielded  up  the  said  city  and  castle  to  them  (to  her  great  griefe 
and  discontent),  before  the  time  agreed  on,  whereby  all  her  goods  in 
the  said  castle  were  lost,  and  seized  on  by  the  enemy. 

DORATHY   HASSARD. 

A  True  and  Full  Relation  of  the  Prosecution,  Arraignment, 
Tryall,  and  Condemnation  of  Nathaniel  Fiennes.  By  William 
Prynne  and  Clement  Walker,  Esqs.  Catalogue  of  the  Witnesses, 
&c.     Pp.  32,  33.     London,  1644,  4to. 


D. 

Page  85. 

LETTER  OF  ZEPHANIAH  SMITH. 

These  for  my  honoured  friend  Mr.  Edward  Terrill,  at  his  house,  near 
Lawford's  Gate,  or  elsewhere,  in  Bristol.     With  care. 

In  Canterbury  Court,  May  14th,  1675. 

Honoured   Brother, — Grace,  mercy,  and  peace  be  manifested 

and  increased  upon  you  and  yours,  and  all  the  brethren  with  you, 

and  on  your  churches  and  scattered  saints  in  your  city  and  countrv, 

through  the  good  will  of  Him  that  dwelt  in  the  bush.    And  therefore 


520  ADDENDA. 

it  is  that  you  and  we  are  not  in  this  time  of  trial  consumed,  but  unto 
admiration,  I  hope  both  you  and  we  shall  grow  in  the  fire.  For, 
dear  brother,  this  fire  is  not  our  destruction,  but  for  the  glory  of  God 
and  our  Father,  which  is  with  us,  and  will  not  leave  us,  but  will 
exercise  our  graces,  and  purge  our  dross,  and  make  us  to  be  con- 
formable to  his  image,  and  fit  us  for  the  crown  of  glory,  which  lieth 
under  the  cross,  and  will  abundantly  compensate  all  our  loss  and 
cross  for  Christ's  sake.  Dear  brother,  I  rejoice  to  hear  of  your  faith 
and  patience,  courage  and  constancy,  in  your  profession,  in  these 
days  of  defection,  notwithstanding  all  opposition.  Albeit  you  live 
where  Satan's  throne  is,  yet  you  endure  ;  and  your  meetings  are  pure 
and  public,  in  the  face  of  the  adversary,  whose  opposition  is  a  certain 
sign  of  their  perdition,  but  to  you  of  salvation,  and  that  of  God. 
Now,  dear  brethren,  the  Lord  strengthen,  settle,  establish  you,  and 
keep  you  faithful  unto  the  end,  and  make  your  souls  flourish  under 
all  the  dispensations  of  God,  and  guide  you  all  by  his  grace.  And 
after  a  little  suffering  he  will  make  you  perfect,  and  crown  you  with 
glory,  where  there  will  be  resting  and  reigning  with  Christ,  and  all 
his  suffering  saints  for  ever.  To  his  grace  I  commend  you  all,  and 
rest,  Sir, 

Your  cordial  and  affectionate  brother, 

To  serve  you  on  Christ's  account, 

Z.  Smith. 

Brother,  the  good  hand  of  God  hath  restored  me  my  limbs  and 
health  since  I  wrote  unto  you  in  the  winter.  Oh,  praise  the  Lord 
with  me !  The  Lord  hath  put  it  into  my  heart  to  come  and  visit 
you,  and  your  churches  in  your  city,  and  my  old  friends  in  the 
country.  I  hope,  God  willing,  to  see  you  in  about  a  fortnight  hence. 
Pray  for  me  that  I  may  be  preserved  from  the  hands  of  evil  men, 
and  that  I  may  come  unto  you  full  of  the  blessing  of  the  gospel,  and 
that  my  service  of  the  Lord  in  the  gospel  may  be  accepted  among 
the  saints  where  his  hand  may  lead  me,  and  that  I  may  be  assisted 
in  his  work  for  the  good  of  many  souls,  that  the  Lord  may  be 
glorified  in  and  by  me ;  and  that  when  I  have  done  my  work,  and 
run  my  race,  I  may  be  gathered  unto  eternal  glory. 

Z.  S. 


ADDENDA. 


521 


E. 


Page  162. 
List  of  subscriptions  for  the  pastor. 


Brother  Ellis 
"       King  . 


White     . 
Gwilliam 
Bodenham 
Fry     . 
Robt.  Jones 
Courtney 
Teather  . 
Dickason 
Rieves    . 
Cornish 
Pierce     . 
Whitehead 
Morgan  . 
James 
Evans    . 
Dennis 
Ford      . 
Bland 
Ekly       . 


<« 

Evans 

•  ( 

Terrill    . 

Sister  Turtle    . 

« 

Hughs 

u 

Gough    . 

a 

Simmonds 

" 

Jones,  jun. 

a 

Williamson 

u 

Papwell 

a 

Ellis,  sen. 

£    s. 

d. 

5     0 

0 

Sister  Brooks   . 

3     0 

0 

" 

Vannatturne 

2  10 

0 

" 

Baily      . 

3     0 

0 

u 

Baldwin     . 

3     0 

0 

el 

Lux 

2     0 

0 

M 

Browne 

3     0 

0 

U 

Webb     . 

1   10 

0 

« 

Robertson 

1   14 

0 

" 

Sterne     .  * 

1   12 

0 

" 

Marsh 

1     0 

0 

f< 

Saunders 

1     0 

0 

" 

Davis 

1     0 

0 

" 

Spurgeon 

1     0 

0 

It 

Burd 

1     0 

0 

(( 

Loverine 

1     0 

0 

U 

Young 

0   10 

0 

it 

Hill,  sen, 

0   10 

0 

u 

Munday     . 

0   10 

0 

a 

West      . 

2     0 

0 

" 

Rose  Teague 

1     0 

0 

« 

Tanner  . 

1     0 

0 

ft 

Betterton  . 

6     0 

0 

U 

Smith     . 
Shuter 

0     8 

0 

" 

Watkins 

0  1G 

0 

M 

Tilley 

0   10 

0 

« 

Shaels     . 

0    10 

0 

U 

Evans 

0  15 

0 

" 

Williams 

1     0 

0 

a 

Sterry 

1   10 

0 

<< 

Willett  . 

3     0 

0 

" 

Davos 

£   s. 

,/. 

4     0 

0 

3     0 

0 

2     0 

0 

1     0 

0 

1    10 

0 

1   10 

0 

2     0 

0 

1    10 

0 

1   10 

0 

1   \) 

0 

1     0 

0 

1     0 

0 

1     8 

0 

1    10 

0 

1     0 

0 

1      0 

0 

1      6 

0 

1     0 

0 

1    10 

0 

0   10 

0 

0    10 

0 

0  10 

0 

1     0 

(1 

1    10 

0 

0   10 

0 

0  12 

0 

0     6 

0 

0     8 

0 

0  10 

0 

0  10 

0 

0     6 

0 

0   10 

0 

522  ADDENDA. 

F. 

Page  239. 

These  for  Alderman  Ollive  30  April  1675. 

The  Exceptions  of  Edw.  Terrill  against  yor  wor*8  Illegall  proceedings 
against  him  :  are  these 

First  that  yor  Worn  sending  for  me  out  of  a  house,  where  were 
onQy]  some  sober  people  sate.  And  coming  before  yo'  Worp  You 
passe  sentence  upon  me  for  being  at  a  Conventicle  or  an  unlawful] 
assembly :  Although  it  was  not  proued  that  it  was  soe :  Wh[[ich  if] 
it  had  been  proued :  that  it  was  an  unlawfull  assembly  :  I  [[refuse] 
not  to  suffer  ye  Penalty :  That  the  Kings  Maties  LaQws  do]  inflict 
for  such  offence  :  But  you  impose  an  other  tuning  than]  the  Law 
directs  in  that  case. 

2.  That  Yor  worP  requires  of  me,  ye  good  behaviour=Not with- 
standing it  hath  not  been  proued  that  I  am  guilty  of  any  of  those  18 
things  the  Law  layes  downe  for  which  you  may  require  it :  Nor  of 
ye  5  Eliz  :  c :  21  Nor  3  James  c  :  13. 

3.  That  you  proceed  to  Imprison  me,  Contrary  to  yc  Statute]  of 
ye  29th  of  Magna  Charta  Confirmed  by  several  StatuQtes]  and  by  the 
17Carolil:  c:  10. 


INDEX, 


Abbot,  Mr.  John,  108,  140,  155. 

Act  for  uniformity,  xiii. 

Admonition  to  parliament  published,  xxvi. 

the  second  by  Cartwright,  xxviii. 
Ainsworth,  Henry,  on  the  church,  xxxix. 
Allegiance,  oath  of,  imposed,  70. 

Bacon,  Mr.  16, 17,  27. 

Baptism,  a  remarkable,  92.  of  a  household, 
188.  of  an  aged  man,  358. 

Baptists,  protest  against  persecution,  xlv. 
xlvi.  numerous  in  Elizabeth's  reign,  1. 
lxxi.  lxxiii.  persecuted,  li.  discovered 
in  Ely,  liii.  two  Flemings  burnt,  liv. — 
Ixv.  not  seditious,  lxvi.  their  opinions, 
lxx.  lxxii.  lxxv.  their  position  towards 
the  protestant  churches,  lxxiv.  hated  by 
all  parties,  lxxv.  first  assertors  of  true 
liberty  of  conscience,  lxxxix.  accounts 
of  them  unworthy  of  credit,  20.  their 
supplication,  503.  letter  to  John  Fox, 
504.  confession  of  faith,  507.  in  Bristol 
about  1652,  41. 

Barnstaple,  church  at,  178. 

Barrowe,  Henry,  his  views  on  the  church, 
xl.  allows  a  coercive  power  to  the 
magistrate,  xlii. 

Beza  maintains  persecution,  xlviii. 

Blinman,  Mr.  Richard,  73. 

Bodenham,  brother  Robert,  96,  110,  135, 
205,  250,  304,  329,  359,  362,  371,  394, 
403,  424,  442,  4j7,  461,  472,  493,  494, 
496. 

Bristol,  beginning  of  separation  in,  8,  11. 
besieged  by  Prince  Rupert,  30.  plague 
in,  87.  six  congregations  in,  213.  ex- 
penses of  four  congregations  in  self- 
defence,  251.  an  earthquake  felt  in,  341. 

Broadmead  church,  basis  of  its  formation, 
23.  its  increase,  28.  use  parish  church 
of  St.  Ewins,  30.  some  go  to  London, 

31,  return,  ib.  covenant  together  anew, 

32.  hear  Mr.  Ingello,  ib.  meet  for  con- 
ference, its  benefits,  33,  188.  invite  Mr. 
Ewins  to  be  pastor,  37.  practice  of  in- 


fant baptism  questioned,  39.  some  bap- 
tized, 41,  42,  51.  troubled  by  the 
quakers,  43,  50,  55.  opposed  by  presby- 
terians,  57.  meet  in  Broadmead,  70, 
158.  object  to  oath  of  supremacy,  70. 
choose  pastor,  &c,  72,  91.  church  meet- 
ing appointed,  86.  choose  an  adminis- 
trator of  baptism,  95.  meet  in  Whitson 
Court,  95.  church  letters,  99,  101,  109, 
166.  answers,  174,  177,  179,  181,  183, 
185,  186.  persecutions,  104,  159.  the 
eighth,  212.  the  ninth,  420.  the  tenth, 
431.  without  a  pastor,  106.  hear  Mr. 
Hardcastle,  131.  their  call  to  him, 
134,  358,  382.  Mr.  Hardcastle  settles 
with  on  trial,  1 58.  they  finally  choose 
him,  196,  383.  introduce  a  fixed  stipend 
for  their  pastor,  1 60.  give  a  second  call 
to  Mr.  Hardcastle,  164.  manner  of  ad- 
mission into,  195,  367,  386.  letters  to 
Mr.  Jessey's  church,  198,  203.  licence  of 
their  rooms,  218.  persevere  in  holding 
meetings,  222.  use  the  gifts  of  brethren, 

225.  manner  of  conducting  the  service, 

226.  seek  an  union  with  three  other 
churches,  240,  245,  341.  their  charges 
through  persecution,  251.  meet  in 
Whitson  Court  to  fast,  273.  the  pastor's 
letters  read  in  the  afternoon,  295,  307. 
agree  to  purchase  a  burying-place,  304, 
399,  431.  resume  public  meetings,  355. 
church  meetings  \  resumed,  357.  con- 
sult on  ordaining  their  pastor,  359. 
troubles  recommence,  362.  Mr.  Jessey's 
church  demand  their  pastor,  380.  their 
lament  on  the  pastor's  death,  &c.  389. 
£150  given  to  Mrs.  Hardcastle,  391. 
invite  Mr.  Browne,  394.  send  a  call  to 
Mr.  Fownes,  400.  state  of  the  church, 
416.  two  questions  proposed  by  pastor, 
423.  choose  deacons,  425,  427.  question 
how  to  act  during  persecution,  432. 
their  place  of  worship  despoiled,  437, 
442.  twenty  in  prison,  keep  a  day  of 
prayer,  443.  appoint  four  places  to  meet 
in,  448.  take  Conbam  house,  461.  two 
questions  on  conformity  proposed  by 
pastor,  464.  raise  support  for  Mr. 
Whinnell,  471.  take  their  sad  state  into 


524 


NDEX. 


con>ideration,  482.  end  of  their  perse- 
cutions, 494.  choose  Mr.  Vauxe  pastor, 
ib.  recommend  Mr.  Jennings  to  Sod- 
bury,  495.  desire  brother  Whinnell  to 
abide,  496.  call  him  to  be  an  elder,  497. 
refuse  to  spare  Mr.  Whinnell  to  Taun- 
ton, 498. 

Browne,  Robert,  his  views  on  the  church, 
xxxiv.  allows  magistrates  a  coercive 
power  in  the  church,  xxxvii. 

Browne,  Mr  Robert,  a  minister  invited 
to  Broadmead,  126.  his  letters,  126,  127, 
130,  131,  133,  140,  145,  150.  at  Ply- 
mouth, 150,  invited  to  Broadmead,  393, 
399. 

Buttall,  Mr.  Samuel,  104,  !20,  231,  241, 
452. 

Canne,  Mr.  a  baptist,  in  Bristol,  18,  22. 
Carleton,  bishop,  persecutes,  213,219,235, 

261,  356,  367. 
Cartwright,  Thomas,  asserts  presbytery, 

xxv.    publishes     second     Admonition, 

xxviii.  his  controversy  with  Whitgift, 

xxix. 
Charles  II.  restoration  of,  70. 
Chauncey,  Dr.  Ichabod,   191,  224,   464. 

imprisoned,  487.  banished,  491. 
Christchurch,  church  at,  427. 
Church,  views  of  reformers  on  the,  xiv. 

xxx.  Robert  Browne  on  the,  xxxiv. 
Churches  in  Wales,  an  account  of,  511. 
Church  of  England,  constituted  of  papists, 

xxxix. 
Comets  in  1664,  84.  in  1674,  221.  in  1677, 

365. 
Common  Prayer,  book   of,   commanded, 

xiii.  its  scriptural  character  questioned, 

xxii. 
Cox,  Dr.  Nehemiah,  359,  369. 
Cradock,  Mr.  7,  29,  31,  37,  515. 

Deaconesses    chosen,    sister   West,    195. 

sister  Murray,  195.  sister  Smith,  397, 

403,  493.  sister  Webb,  397,  403,  404. 

sister  Walton,  397,  494. 
Deane,  Mr.  London,  359. 
Devizes,  church  at,  call   Mr.    Whinnell, 

496,  497. 
Discipline,  cases  of,  86,96,  107,  363,  368, 

369,  370,  372,  377,  379,  384,  385,  406, 

408,  411,  413,  429.  doctrine  relating  to, 

375. 
Dyke,  Mr.  Daniel,  xcii.  369. 

Elizabeth,  Queen,  resumes  the  supremacy  . 
x  \ii.  retains  the  crucifix,  xi.  perse- 
cutes  tlic    puritans,  xxxiii.   burns  two 


Flemish  baptists,  liv. — lxv.  supplication 
to  her,  503. 
Ellis,  Thomas,  a  ruling  elder,  72,  76,  90, 

95,  110,  131,  135,  241,  284,  295,  307, 
312,  316,  318,  403,  405,  425,  476,  493. 

Emigration  to  .New  England,  9. 
Ethiopiau,  conversion  of  an,  35. 
Evvins,  Mr.  Thomas,  pastor  of  the  church, 
37,  50,  51,  61,  70,  71,  72,  76,  84,  90,  95, 

96,  399,  445.  imprisoned,  73,  74,  letters 
of,  80,  82,  98.  notes  of  a  discourse  of, 
94.  his  death,  97.  his  wife's  death,  358. 

Fitteu,  Mr.  James,  111,  203,  329,  383. 

Forty,  Mr.  Henry,  xcii.  Ill,  203. 

Fosket,  Mr.  Bernard,  transcribes  from  the 
waste-book,  426,  495,  500.  chosen  pas- 
tor, xciii.  500. 

Fownes,  Mr.  George,  361,  393,  399,  420, 
422,  427,  428,  432,  453,  457.  accepts 
the  church's  call,  405.  settles  in  Bristol, 
414.  disturbed  while  preaching,  431, 433, 
436.  sent  to  prison,  437.  removed  by 
habeas,  448.  cleared,  but  detained,  451. 
discharged,  457.  preaches,  ib.  458.  459, 
460,  464.  sent  to  Gloucester  jail,  465. 
pleads,  and  is  continued  in  prison,  490, 
492.  493.  dies  in  jail,  493. 

Fox,  John,  letter  to,  by  the  Flemish  bap- 
tists, lxii.  504. 

Fry,  John,  87,  135.  his  disease  and  singu- 
lar recovery.  191,  196,  205,  359. 

Gilford,  Mr.  Andrew,  213,  219,  223,  361, 
409,  452,  473,  480,  497.  imprisoned, 
224.  his  ordination,  369.  tent  to  Glou- 
cester jail,  481. 

Gloucester,  church  at,  letters  from,  206, 
207,  208. 

Gosnold,  Mr.  John,  187,  247. 

Greenwood,  H.  allows  a  coercive  power  in 
the  magistrate  over  the  church,  xli. 

Habits,  strife  relating  to,  xix. 

Hanbury,  Mr.  examination  of  his  claim 
for  the  independents,  &c.  lxxvii. 

Hardcastle,  Mr.  Thomas,  pastor,  107,  109, 
115,  116,  131,  164,  188,  196,  362,  380. 
letters  of,  111,  120,  122,  124,  129,  137, 
140,  143,  147,  149,  152,  155,  157,  209. 
his  license  to  preach,  217.  imprisoned, 
222.  removed  to  London  by  habeas 
corpus,  240.  return  to  prison,  243.  at 
liberty  and  preaches,  252.  his  second 
imprisonment,  253.  his  twenty-two  let- 
ters from  prison  to  the  church,  257  — 
354.  permitted  at  his  own  house,  273, 
and  preaches,  284.  released,  355.  his 
wife  joins  the  church,  360,  367.  his 
death,  387. 


INDEX. 


525 


Harford,  Mr.  Charles,  a  teacher  of  Mr. 
Gifford's  church,  219,  428,  486. 

Harrison,  Mr.  Edward,  149,  153,  198. 

Hazzard,  Mrs.  10,  14,  16,  18,  22,  28,  48, 
135.  her  death,  232,  236.  her  heroic 
conduct  at  the  siege,  518. 

Hooker,  Richard,  on  the  baptists,  xliv. 

Horton,  church  at,  Gloucester,  letter 
from,  210. 

Humphreys,  Dr.  Laurence,  objects  to  the 
habits,  xviii. 

Hynam,  Mr.  Henry,  41,  361.  his  congre- 
gation, 70.  where  buried,  399. 

Independents  were  not  the  first  assertors 
of  liberty  of  conscience,  lxxxv. 

Ingello,  Dr.  Nath.  32,  35,  36. 

Ironsides,  bishop,  persecutes  the  church, 
105. 

Jacob,  Henr}r,  for  a  restricted  toleration, 
lxxviii.  his  church  probably  not  an  in- 
dependent one,  lxxix. 

Jennings,  Mr.  Thomas,  a  minister,  91,  94, 
135,  190,  195,  211,  305,  312,  339,  359, 
396,  403,  405,  414,  427,  435,  443,  445, 
451,  453,  456,  460.  settles  at  Sodbury, 
495.  imprisoned,  447.  released,  448. 
warrants  issued  against  him,  455 

Jessey,  Mr.  Henry,  7,  42,  51. 

Jesuits  under  the  garb  of  quakers,  42,  46. 

Jewell,  bishop,  his  fears  for  the  reforma- 
tion, xi.  on  the  habits,  xvii.  thinks  of 
resigning  his  bishopric,  xix. 

Johnson,  Francis,  allows  a  compulsory  re- 
formation, xlii.  on  the  baptists,  lxxii. 

Jones,  Mr.  David,  Swansea, 456,  457,  512. 

Jope,  Mr.  Caleb,  xciii.  500. 

Kelly,  Mrs.  see  Hazzard. 

Kiffin,  Mr.  William,  xcii.  31,  123,  149, 
359,361. 

Kitchen,  Mr.  general  baptist,  213,  427. 

Kitterell,  Mr.  Peter,  xciii.  500. 

Knox,  John,  attacks  the  baptists,  xlv.  up- 
holds persecution,  xlvii. 

Letters  from   Mr.  Jessey's  church,   102, 

117, 125,  138,  153,  200. 
Listun,  Mr.  William,  xci.  8, 12,  27,  41. 
Llantrissant,  church  at,  90,  514. 
Llanvaches,  church  at,  comes  to  Bristol, 

29,37. 
London,  fire  of,  88. 

Magistrate,  authority  in  the  church,  xxx. 
lxxxiii. 


Maurice,  or  Morris,  Mr.  Henry,  430.  51 1. 

Maydstone,  a  baptist  in  Norwich  jail, 
lxxiii. 

Minister,  a,  though  not  a  pastor,  may  bap- 
tize, 415. 

Moreton,  Mr.  an  elder  in  London,  359. 

Nobbs,  Mr.  minister  at  Sodbury,  429. 

Owen,  Dr.  John,  148,  152,  155,  382. 

Palmer,  Mr.  Anth.  361. 

Patient,  Mr.  Thomas,  imprisoned,  74. 

Persecution,  its  cruelty   and   folly,   lxv. 

condemned  by  Jesus  and  the  apostles, 

lxvii.  of  the  puritans,  5. 
Peters,  Jan,  a  baptist,  burnt,  lxiii. 
Powell,  Mr.  Vavasor,  107,  380  letters  of, 

108,115,516. 
Prosser,    Mr.    Enoch,    of    Mr.    Reach's 

church,  446,  447,  448. 
Puritans,  their  intolerance,  xxxii.  depend 

on  the  secular  arm,  xxxvi.    claim   for 

toleration    unsatisfactory,     lxxx.     the 

name  of,  when  first  used,  6. 
Purnell,  Mr.  Robert,  an  elder,  51,  61,  72, 

89. 

Quakers  trouble  the  church,  43,  55. 

Ralphson,  Mr.  393. 

Reformation    under    Elizabeth,   xvii.   4. 

under  Henry,  &c.  ib.  Charles  I.  5. 
Robinson,  Mr.  John,  maintains  coercion 

of  conscience,  lxxxv. 
Roundheads,  origin  of  the  name,  29. 

Sampson,   Dr.   Thomas,  on    the    habits, 

xvii.  objects  to  them,  xviii. 
Sandys,  bishop,  persecutes  two  baptists  to 

death,  lix.  lxiv. 

Separatists  before  Grindal,  xxiv.  the  first 

in  Bristol,  8,  16.  their  proceedings,  1?, 

18.  twelve  steps  to  separation,  23. 
Simpson,  brother,  a  deacon,  72,  75,  1 10, 

135,  195,  237.  letter  of,  78.  his  death, 

378. 
Smith,  Mr.   Zeph.  85,  244.    an  original 

letter  of,  519. 
Sodbury,  church  at,  429    letter  to,  from 

Broadmead,  495. 
Spilsbury,   Mr.   his   secession   from    Mr. 

Lathorpe,  lxxix. 
Stubbs,  Mr.  Henry,  67. 

Taunton,  church  at,  call  Mr.  Whinnell, 
496.  letter  to,  from  Broadmead,  498. 
obtain  Mr.  Whinnell,  499. 

Terwoort,  Hendrik,  a  baptist,  burnt,  lxiii. 


526 


NDEX. 


Terrill,  Mr. Edward,  xci.  47 ,  75, 77, 86, 1 06, 
110,  124,  129,  134,  135,  155,  159,  162, 
205,  209,  228,  237,  238,  241,  247,  249, 
253,  312,  319,  339,  346,  355,  359,  366, 
371,  380,  384,  391,  394,  398,  400,  403, 
405,  409,  412,  421,  422,  424,  427,  432, 
433,  438,  440,  442,  445,  448,  451,  460, 
466,  470,  474,  476,  478,  482,  487.  his 
experience,  57.  chosen  elder,  90.  im- 
prisoned, 442,  446.  before  the  mayor, 
449.  discharged,  455.  his  exceptions 
against  his  arrest,  522.  provides  a  place 
in  the  wood  for  their  meetings,  459. 
deceased,  494.  his  bequests,  xcii. 

Thomas,  Mr.  William,  7,  90,  92. 

Thompson,  Mr.  John,  independent,  213. 
imprisoned,  221.  dies  in  prison,  224. 

Uniformity  urged,  xviii.  xxiii. 


Vauxe,  Mr.  chosen  pastor,  494,  497,  499. 
Veron,  John,  assails  the  baptists,  I. 

Wales,  churches  in,  511. 

Weeks,  Mr.  presbyterian,  214.  impri- 
soned, 222.  removed  to  London  by 
Habeas  Corpus,  240.  return  to  prison, 
243.  at  liberty,  252. 

Whinnell,  Mr.  Thomas,  427,  448,  451, 
452,  455,  460,  466,  472,  476,  479,  482, 
487,  493,  500.  joins  the  church,  454. 
receives  a  call  from  Devizes  and  Taun- 
ton, 496.  called  to  be  an  elder  at  Broad- 
mead,  497.  settles  at  Taunton,  499. 

Whitgift,  archbishop,  his  controversy 
with  Cartwright,  xxix.  on  the  baptists, 
lxviii. 

Wroth,  Mr.  Monmouthshire,  7,  9,  27, 
29,  39,  515. 


LONDON  ! 

.1.    MADDON,     PTUXTKK,    CASTLE    KTKKET,    KINSBl'RV. 


ERRATA. 


Page  lxxix.  line  7,  for  prebyterian,  read  presbyteria n . 
„       86       „      1 ,  for  January,  read  February. 
„      90      „    18,  for  March,  read  February. 
„      91       „      3,  for  April,  read  March. 
„     192       „    13,  for  persauded,  read  pei-suaded. 


