                HISTORY
                                OF THE




COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY,


 FROM ITS ORIGIN IN 1746 TO THE COMMENCEMENT OF 1854.




                                   BY

                JOHN MACLEAN,
                     TENTH PRESIDENT. OF THE COLLEGE.




                          VOLUME             I.




                         PHILADELPHIA:
           J.   B.     LIPPINCOTT & CO.
                                 1877.
Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1877, by

                JOHN MACLEAN.
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.
                         TO



   JAMES LENOX, ESQUIRE, LL.D.,
         WHOSE MUNIFICENCE TO THE COLLEGE


DURING THE AUTHOR'S ADMINISTRATION

        GIVES HIM A CLAIM TO THE GRATITUDE


                 OF ALL ITS FRIENDS,


 THIS HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY

            IS   MOST RESPECTFULLY

                   DEDICATED.
                       PREFACE.

  THE plan of this work will be seen at once by a glance at the
table of contents.
   In his letter to the Trustees resigning the office of President,
the writer mentioned that it was his purpose to devote a
                                                             portion
of his time to the collecting of materials for a history of the Col-
lege.   Accordingly, the earlier portions of his manuscripts were
          "
labelled    materials for a history." But, learning that his former

colleagues, and also the friends of the College generally, looked
to him to set in order and to publish, as well as to collect, the

requisite facts for a history of the institution, he determined to
do what he could in this direction    ;
                                          and the following volumes
are the result.
  This statement will account, in a measure, for whatever lack
there may be of a proper grouping of the incidents given in the
narratives of the different administrations.
  Several important matters, which at the first he intended to
introduce into this work, have been omitted, for the reason that
they have already been given to the public,      viz., sketches of the
two literary societies of the College, and brief notices of the
more distinguished graduates.      The Histories of the Societies,
by Professors Giger and Cameron, and the work of the Rev. Dr.
Samuel D. Alexander, entitled " Princeton College during the
Eighteenth Century," have happily relieved the writer from any
obligation to attempt what these gentlemen have done so well         ;



and it is earnestly hoped that Dr. Alexander's work may be so
enlarged as to include at least the graduates of the first half of
the nineteenth century.
  In this work the writer has had in view two classes of readers     :




one being those friends of the College who wish to have a general
                                                               5
6                            PREFACE.

knowledge of the institution, viz., of its origin, its design, its
methods of instruction, and its success and the other consisting
                                        ;



of those who desire to know more fully the various measures
adopted from time to time to attain the ends sought; and a
knowledge of which maybe of special use to those whose duty
it is to watch over the institution, and to whom a detail, to some

extent, of the various doings of the Trustees and of the Faculty
in times past     may be of assistance in determining their own
course of action.     To many of the graduates, too, it may be a
matter of interest to have an authentic account of the views and
plans of the Trustees in different periods of the history of the
College and for them numerous extracts are given from the
          ;



Minutes of the Board and from other documents.
  To meet these different views, the writer has adopted the plan
of having the work printed with two different sets of type, in
the smaller of which most of the extracts from minutes and
public records will be printed.     The rest of the work will be
in larger type, and of itself will form a narrative suited to the
class of readers first spoken of.
  Another object aimed at in giving the official statements is
to secure their preservation in case the volumes containing
them should be lost or destroyed.
     The citations from the College records are in some cases fol-
lowed by an expression of the writer's own views in reference
to the matters therein mentioned.
  Had the writer's health permitted it, he would have devoted
some time to a thorough revision of this work, omitting some
parts and rewriting others, in the hope of thereby making the
entire work more acceptable to the reader; but, his age and
health forbidding this, it must go to the press as it is.   He is
not, however, without hope that, whatever may be its defects,
he has clearly shown that it was the design of the founders
of the College, and of their successors in office, to make the
institution one devoted to the upbuilding of the Redeemer's

kingdom, by promoting the advancement of piety and learning
in happy union.
   For reasons which will readily occur to the mind of the reader,
this history is   brought down only to the date of the writer's
                            PREFACE.
                                                                 7

inauguration as President.    It would give him sincere pleasure

to bring into full view the valuable services rendered by all his

colleagues, and especially by those associated with him in the
instruction and government of the institution from the begin-

ning of his presidency to its close; but the limit which he has
assigned himself prevents this from being done. Doubtless
some other annalist of the College will give such a record of
the labors of those   who contributed so greatly to its success
from 1854 to 1868, during which period the number of under-
graduates increased from two hundred and forty-seven to three
hundred and fourteen, as was the case in 1 860-61 and although
                                                   ;



these numbers, in consequence of the    war, were reduced
                                         civil

in 1861-2 to about two hundred and twenty, yet in 1868, the
last year of the writer's connection with the College, they again

reached two hundred and sixty-four, with a fair prospect of a
stilllarger increase in the course of the ensuing year, the num-
ber of new students for the College year of 1867-68 being one
hundred and eleven, of whom one hundred and five entered
College the first term of that year.
  At different periods in the history of the College the cur-
riculum has varied more or less, and greater prominence was
given to one class of studies than to another; and in the period
just referred to, the course of study, religious and secular, was
considerably enlarged, and the requirements for admission to
the first degree in the Arts kept pace with the progress of learn-
ing. With the exception of the French and German languages,
the study of which was optional, all the branches of knowledge

taught in the College were made parts of the regular course,
which every student was required to pursue.
   Of the condition of the College finances during the same
period, viz., from 1854 to 1868, while the subject is yet fresh in
his mind, the writer deems it due to some of his friends to say
in this connection a few words.

   Within the time here mentioned, and the year preceding,
viz., the last year of Dr. Carnahan's administration, after paying
all the ordinary and contingent expenses of the College, and

those incurred in the rebuilding of Nassau Hall in 1855-56,^
actual increase in the funds vested in bonds, mortgages, and public
g                            PREFACE.

securities, and mainly through the efforts of Professors   Hope and
Atwater, was not        than two hundred and fojty thousand
                      less

dollars.   Of this sum, one hundred and fifteen thousand dol-
lars were contributed for professorships, over fifty-five thousand
dollars for scholarships, about sixty-four   thousand dollars for
general purposes, and six thousand dollars for prizes.
  From a gift and a bequest by the late Dr. John N. Woodhull,
of Princeton, to found a professorship, the College became the
owner of all his houses and lots adjacent to the College grounds,
and extending on William Street from the road or path west
of Dickinson Hall to Washington Street, with the exception of
a small house and lot purchased by the College a year or two
before, and on Washington Street from the corner of William
and Washington Streets to Nassau, on the main street of Prince-
ton, the corner house and lot on Nassau Street included; the
estimated value at that time being twenty thousand dollars.
Since then this property has greatly increased in value.
    The house and lot on W illiam Street, mentioned as having
                             r




been purchased by the College, cost between one and two
thousand dollars.
  This increase in the real estate and in the other permanent
funds of the College is exclusive of the first ten thousand dol-
lars given in 1865 by General N. N. Halsted for the erection of
the Astronomical Observatory, which was completed by him in

1872, at an expense of fifty thousand dollars; exclusive, too, of
the sum of five thousand five hundred dollars expended by the
College in the purchase of the site on which the Observatory
stands,    of which   sum three thousand dollars were a bequest
by the Rev. Dr. C. Van Rensselaer towards the establishment of
an Observatory exclusive also of the sixteen thousand dollars
                 ;




given in 1866 by John C. Green, Esq., for the purchase of the
              "
lots on which   Dickinson Hall" was built by him three or four
years after; and of the further gift of one hundred thousand
dollars in the spring of 1868    by the same gentleman.        It is

also exclusive of the thirty-eight thousand dollars, over and
above the twelve thousand dollars insurance, expended in the
rebuilding and enlarging of "Nassau Hall" in 1855-56; of
which sum eighteen thousand dollars were gifts and twenty
                           PREFACE.
                                                                 9

thousand dollars the excess of the receipts above the ordinary
expenses of the College from 1854 to 1860. The aggregate of
the above sums is four hundred and thirty thousand dollars,
of which more than four hundred thousand dollars were         gifts
or bequests.   Besides the above, there were three bequests
amounting to sixteen thousand dollars, which have been paid
since 1868; and another bequest of thirty thousand dollars, a
vested legacy (to found a professorship), not yet due, but the

payment of which was made sure by the donor.
  It was the intention of the donors that these several bequests

should be made parts of a permanent endowment; and if they
be added to the above they will make the increase in this class
of funds from July, 1853, to July, 1868, not less than four hun-
dred and seventy-six thousand dollars.
  During this period the President's house and a house occu-
pied by one of the Professors were also enlarged and improved,
at an expense of several thousand dollars, which without any

impropriety might have been added to the above amount. And
within the same time two other friends of the College in their
respective wills made provision for the endowment by each of
them of a professorship, which at a future day will doubtless be
established and the original bequests enlarged.  In addition to
the sums above mentioned as contributed to the permanent funds,
nine thousand dollars were given towards the current expenses
of the College, viz., five thousand dollars, in ten semi-annual in-
stalments of five hundred dollars each, to aid in establishing a
professorship of Mental and Moral Philosophy, fifteen
                                                          hundred
dollars for the professorship of Geology and Physical Geogra-

phy, and twenty-five hundred dollars to meet a deficiency
                                                             in

the income of the College consequent on losses during the first

year of the late civil war. Several thousand dollars
                                                     were also
given to an association formed for the purpose  of aiding indi-
gent and worthy young men, without respect    to the particular

professions to which they proposed to devote
                                             themselves. This
fund has already rendered valuable   assistance to as many as

thirty students of the College.
  To what extent the College was indebted to its then Treasurer,
the late Governor Charles S. Olden, for the above-mentioned
IO                                PREFACE.

gifts    of the late John C. Green, Esq., will appear from the fol-
lowing correspondence, begun on the 4th of August, 1866, very
nearly two years before the end of the writer's administration.
This difference of dates will account for one or two seeming
discrepancies between the writer's statement and that of the
Governor's in regard to the College finances.


    Governor Olden's letter to Mr. Green        :




                                             "PRINCETON, August 4,   i866.
"
    JOHN C. GREEN, ESQ.       :


    "
        DEAR SIR,   In the age in which we          live,   whatever has a
tendency to improve agriculture and manufactures and advance
useful science is attracting the attention of the best men of the
civilized world.  The urgent necessity of thoroughly educating
a large portion of the youth in those branches termed 'Applied
Science' is apparent. This necessity has led to the establishment
of many private schools and academies in which these subjects
receive special attention, and it has led to the organization by
most of the principal colleges of the country of departments
in which these subjects are thoroughly taught. Several of the

prominent colleges of New England have recently established
such departments, and where already in existence they have
been greatly enlarged.  The college at Easton, Pennsylvania,
has by the contributions of the citizens of that State organized
                    '
a department of         Applied Science.'    So also has Rutgers Col-
lege, at   New Brunswick, in this State.       And a college is started
at Allentown  [Bethlehem], Pennsylvania, through the munifi-
cence of Judge Packer, to be under Episcopal influence, in
which these are to be prominently taught. This gives those in-
stitutions advantages over the College of New Jersey, and has

already drawn away some of her students and deterred others
from coming. The Faculty realizing this, and unwilling this
time-honored institution should lose the position (so long occu-
pied) among the foremost in the United States, drew a paper
which was  laid before the Trustees, setting forth what they

thought should be taught in the department of Applied Sci-
                                                             '




ence,' and what was needed to carry it into effect. copy of      A
                                 PREFACE.                            j j




this is enclosed herewith, and I have noted on        it   some changes
that could, I think, be advantageously made.
     "Your brother, the Chancellor, is one of the oldest and most
influential Trustees, and always manifested
                                                  great interest in the
College.   His attention had been for some time directed to this
subject, and in conversation with him about a year ago he told
me that on a recent visit to Princeton he had looked at the land
owned by the College, with the view of ascertaining whether
there was any eligible site for a building suitable for a scientific

department. I gave him some information about lands adjoin-
ing the College property, which induced him to ask me to furnish
him with some maps, etc., and ascertain the price for which the
land referred to could be obtained, in order that he might
                                                                   fully
understand the matter.         Some time after, I did so, and told him
that      I   had obtained a refusal of the property until the first of
January next (now last).   His official business was at this time
very engrossing, and  I forbore saying anything further to him
on the subject until the expiration of the time for which I had
the refusal of the property, when he informed me that he had
not had leisure to give the subject the attention he desired, but
would do so ere long. With some difficulty I got the time ex-
tended (for which I had the refusal) one month but before I;



saw him again he was taken sick, and I have not since thought
itproper to call his attention to it, as he had more requiring his
supervision than the state of his health warranted.    In our first
conversation he intimated, as I understood him, that he believed
you felt interested in Princeton College, and possibly, if satisfied
that decided good could be effected, this subject might be con-
sidered by you favorably.     I am emboldened by this allusion

to you to lay this matter before you; and I have no doubt that,
if known to him, my doing so would meet his approval.              I

send you herewith a copy of the map furnished the Chancellor,
giving a sketch of the property now owned by the College, and
of that which it is desirable to obtain in order to carry out
the plan of a scientific department properly,        also the prices at
which I had the refusal of the several parcels making up the
plot.
     "
         You are aware that the College of New Jersey is among the
12                                        PREFACE.

oldest institutions of the kind in the United States, two only

(or atmost three) being older, and yet it has had less outside
assistance by far than any of the other prominent ones.                            It    has
struggled along, relying on its own resources almost entirely,
until within a few years, when several friends have come to its
aid.     In 1844, when I became particularly acquainted with its
financial   condition, it had a charitable fund of about twelve
thousand             dollars, and all the other funds          belonging to it, after
paying         its    debts,   did not exceed one hundred                 dollars.       Its

finances improved somewhat between this time and 1855, when
the main building of the College was burned.  It was insured

for twelve thousand dollars; about eighteen thousand were
contributed by sundry persons towards rebuilding it, and the
balance of the fifty thousand dollars which it cost to erect it
was supplied by the savings of the business of the College the
previous and the succeeding five years, during which its affairs
were quite prosperous.*
  "
       A short time before this event, an effort had been commenced
to raise a  sum by establishing scholarships, of one thousand
dollars each, to aid in educating destitute young men intended
for the ministry, and, in some cases, others. This effort was
continued through several years, and was quite successful,
realizing over fifty thousand dollars.
  "In the year 1862 it became apparent that the loss of the
Southern students in consequence of the rebellion, and the in-
creased cost of living, required an increase of the Professors'
salaries and, as the College could not get on with the means
           ;



then at command, an effort was in consequence made to se-
cure what was termed an 'Endowment Fund.'      Over sixty-five
thousand dollars were subscribed and paid to the College, and
one professorship of thirty thousand dollars and one of thirty-
five thousand dollars were also established.   A professorship
of twenty-five thousand dollars had been formed some years
before by the united contributions of a number of individuals,
and there is a probability that another will be secured ere long.
The whole funds of the College now amount to about two hun-

      * These six
                       years were the first six years of Dr. Maclean's administration.
                                       PREFACE.                                        j-

dred and forty thousand dollars,* which it is believed is securely
invested at an interest averaging seven per cent, per                          annum.
As at present situated, and with a continuance of the number
of students in attendance the last three years, the income and
the expenses of the College are about equal. There is little
or nothing left at the close of each year with which to make
improvements or to enlarge the operations of the institution.
When the resources of the College are compared with those of
other prominent colleges of the country, it is astonishing that
it has been able to maintain its established reputation. While
Harvard and Yale each have funds amounting to millions of
dollars, and colleges of less note quadruple of those of Prince-
ton, it has required all the talent of the Faculty and Trustees of
Princeton College to maintain her reputation; and without fur-
ther aid it will probably be impossible for them to do it much

longer. For some reason, after the College of New Jersey was
fairly in operation, it          appears to have been taken for granted
that it needed no further assistance.                  It    received nothing, com-

paratively, until within a few years, while other colleges have
been the recipients of munificent gifts. Other States have made
                                       New Jersey, though
liberal appropriations to their colleges.

solicited, has done nothing in aid of that
                                      which for many years
was her only one. Individuals appear to have forgotten her
altogether. Mr. James Lenox, of New York, is an exception,
and had it not been              for his liberality the College would                have
been seriously embarrassed.   At a later period other friends of
the institution have contributed liberally and made up what is
the present fund.  The great importance of the College, its in-
fluence for good to the country generally and the Presbyterian
Church in particular, have not, I think, been duly considered.



     * This sum does not include the notes of the late
                                                            Captain Silas Holmes, of New
York, amounting to thirty thousand dollars, given by him to found a professorship
and five scholarships, the principal payable at the option of the donor, the interest
at six per cent,   payable on the 1st of January and the 1st of July in each year.   Cap-
tain Holmes died before the date of this letter, and, as the payment of the principal
was not at that time fully secured by bond and mortgage, Governor Olden did not
reckon the notes of Captain Holmes as a part of the vested funds of the College.
!4
                              PREFACE.

     "
         Princeton stands alone as having for more than a century
taught nothing in Theology but the purest doctrines, as under-
stood by the Old School branch of the Presbyterian Church,
and, pursuing the same course unwaveringly, is at this time
doing more probably for the cause of sound principles and true
religion than any institution in the land   in evidence of which
                                             ;



it
  may   be stated that two-thirds of all the  students in College

during the last session were professors of religion, the greater
portion of whom became such after entering. The opportunity
afforded of making lasting impressions on the minds of youth
at a period when  they are most impressible is nowhere more
fully understood or diligently improved than by the President
and Professors of this College. While errorists abound and
are zealous in disseminating heterodoxy over the land, the in-
fluence for good of the band of young men yearly passing out
from 'the College of New Jersey' is incalculable. We need
only look over the country and observe what men are giving
direction to public sentiment, to see     how mighty the influence
exercised by it.   In the pulpit her graduates are unsurpassed
for learning and piety.   In the Senate of the United States (the

only men in that body whom no one ventured to approach with
business on the Sabbath were Frelinghuysen and Berrien, both
graduates of Princeton), in Congress, on the bench of the Su-
preme Court, in the State Courts (all the Chancellors of the
State under the present Constitution were graduates of this

College), and of eminent and influential men, there are more in
proportion to the number of graduates who are from Princeton
than from any other institution in this country. But I will not
enlarge further on the importance of the College.        My object
is, principally, to inform you that those best able to judge think

that a department of 'Applied Science' is very much needed
to enable her to keep her standard of instruction equal to that
of other prominent institutions.      Knowing that you are a Jer-
seyman, and believing you are interested in all that concerns
our native State, I do not doubt that you sympathize with those
who congratulate themselves on having at least one institution
in   New Jersey of which they are proud.         Should you feel suf-
ficient interest in the   matter to induce you to desire further in-
                                      PREFACE.
                                                                                 !^

formation,         I willcheerfully give it; or can you not make me a
visit, and I       could point out the localities and explain everything
more fully here than elsewhere ?               If you should incline to come,
  me know a few days before, as I should regret being absent.
let

No one connected with the College knows that I am writing to
you, and you can, if you desire it, be entirely private while here.
  "Trusting that you will not consider me intrusive in address-
ing you, I am, very respectfully,
                                 "
                                     Yours, etc.,
                                                         "CHAS.   S.   OLDEN."

      Copies of two letters of the same date from John C. Green,
Esq., to the Hon. Charles S. Olden:

                                                " NEW
                                                        YORK, December 24, 1870.
"
    HON. CHARLES S. OLDEN, Princeton, New Jersey                   :



     "Mv DEAR SIR, I have your letter of the 23d instant, ac-
companying the final accounts of the cost of Dickinson Hall
and the grounds pertaining thereto.
  "
    Herewith I hand you my check on the National Bank of
Commerce, in New York, payable to your order, for ten thou-
sand and ninety-seven dollars and twenty-nine cents ($10,097.29),
which is the balance represented in said accounts to be due to
the College of New Jersey.
      "
          It was   my intention to leave the provisions of the Elizabeth
Endowment absolutely to you and my brother, the Chancellor.
I   have not the deed at hand, and cannot, therefore, express an
intelligent opinion  on the point regarding which you ask my
                      I leave it to your own judgment, and
4
 further directions.'
whatever your decision may be I now confirm it.
      "
          This letter is official.   I write another of a personal character,

which is due to the occasion, but which, for want of time, may
not reach you by this mail.
                                       "
                                           Very truly yours,
                                                           "JNO. C. GREEN."
                                                " NEW
                                                        YORK, December 24, 1870.
"
    HON. CHARLES S. OLDEN, Princeton                :


     "
       MY DEAR SIR, I have already acknowledged the receipt of
j6                                    PREFACE.

your letter of the 23d            instant, and   complied with   its   business
requirements.             Now I propose to add what the occasion calls
for besides.
     "
         Your letter of August 4, 1866, now lies before me, and has
just been reperused.     This was the beginning of our corre-
spondence on the subject of the affairs of the College of New
Jersey, and the origin of all that I have done for the institution.
   "
     My belief in the fulness of your knowledge, and confidence
in your judgment and public spirit, led me to consider your
opinions with more than ordinary care, and to examine anew
the claims of the College to public aid.                My
                                            brother Henry
was absent in Europe. On his return, consultation with him
confirmed my own favorable conclusions, and induced me to
enter upon the work which has just been finished. Its subse-

quent conduct having been intrusted absolutely to my brother
and yourself, no cause of anxiety was allowed to remain lest the
money bestowed should be extravagantly or unwisely disbursed.
   "The first proposed contract, which was not executed,
strengthened my conviction that a restraining and controlling
power was needed other than that of the official authorities.
With the prosecution and completion of the undertaking I am
fully satisfied, and beg you, my dear sir, to accept my hearty
thanks for your ready acceptance of the trust, and for the fidelity,
wisdom, and success with which it has been discharged.
   "
     My pleasure is enhanced by the consideration that a tried
and valued friend has crowned a life of honor and usefulness by
rendering this (among other important services running through
a long course of years) important aid to an eminent institution
of learning which confers blessings on the State and the world.
             "
                 I   remain, my dear sir, very faithfully, your friend,
                                                       ")NO. C. GREEN."

      In preparing this history, the author has availed himself of
all    the sources of information within his reach, and, except
through some inadvertence, he has not failed to refer to his
authorities and to name the authors from whom he had occa-
sion to cite either passages or facts.            Among these, and chiefly    >



are      :
                                     PREFACE.                                    T
                                                                                     -


  The College Records.
  The Minutes of the Synods of New York and of Philadelphia.
  The Diary, in manuscript, of President Davies, during his visit to Great Britain
in behalf of the College in 1753-4.
  An Account of the College, published by order of the Trustees, in 1764.
  Memoranda, by Mr. N. F. Randolph, of Princeton, respecting the charters, and
the erection of Nassau Hall.
  Governor Belcher's Correspondence, in manuscript.
  Letters of the Rev. Charles Beatty to the Rev. Dr.
                                                     Treat, of Abington, Penn-
sylvania, written from Scotland in 1767.
  President Witherspoon's Address to the Inhabitants of
                                                            Jamaica and other West
India Islands in behalf of the College, and other
                                                  papers in the fourth volume of his
works, W. W. Woodward publisher.
  President Green's Notes respecting the College, his
                                                            Autobiography, and his
Address before the Alumni Association of Nassau Hall.
  "History    ofthe College of New Jersey, from 1746 to 1783," by a
                                                                      graduate
(Rev. Dr. William A. Dod), in 1844.
  " Historical Sketch of the
                             College of New Jersey," by Robert Edgar, a student
of the College, 1859.
  Dr. Samuel D. Alexander's " Princeton College."
  Professor Cameron's " History of the American Whig Society."
  Professor Giger's " History of the Cliosophic Society."
  The " New York Gazette and Mercury."
  The " Pennsylvania Gazette."
  The " Pennsylvania Chronicle."
  " Wood's
            Gazette," of Newark, New Jersey.
  " Newark
             Daily Advertiser."
  " New
         Jersey State Gazette."
  Mr. Samuel Smith's " History of New Jersey."
  Hon. William Smith's " History of New York."
  Mr. William A. Whitehead's " East Jersey under the Proprietors."
  Mr. Whitehead's " Contributions."
  " Minutes of the Provincial Council."
                   " Provincial Courts."
  Judge Field's
                 "
  Judge Elmer's    Constitution, etc., of New Jersey."
  Dr. Hodge's " History of the Presbyterian Church."
  Rev. Richard Webster's "History of the Presbyterian Church."
  Dr. A. Alexander's " Log College."
  " Transactions of the American
                                    Philosophical Society," vol. i.
  Dr. Bellamy's Correspondence, in manuscript.
  Dr. Sprague's " Annals."
  President Quincy's " History of Harvard University."
  " Life of Mrs.
                 Quincy," by her daughter, Miss Quincy.
  Charters and Catalogues of Yale College.
  Professor Kingsley's sketches of the history of Yale College.
  President Clap's " Defence of the Charter of Yale College," given in the ap-
              "
pendix to the   History of the Dartmouth College Case."
    VOL. I.    2
jg                                  PREFACE.

  President Porter's " Life of Professor Silliman, of Yale College."
  "
    History of the College of William and Mary, of Virginia."
  "
    History of Brown University," by Mr. R. A. Guild, the Librarian.
  Judge Bradley's Discourse at the Centennial Anniversary of Rutgers College.
  Dr. Stearns's " History of the First Presbyterian Church, Newark, New Jersey."
  Dr. Hall's " History of the First Presbyterian Church, Trenton, New Jersey."
  Dr. Davidson's " History of the First Presbyterian Church, New Brunswick,
New Jersey."
  Dr. Hatfield's " History of Elizabeth, New Jersey."
  Dr. Gibbon's " Sermon on the Death of President Davies," London.
  President           " Sermon on the Death of President Davies."
               Finley's
  Dr. Rodgers's " Sermon on the Death of Dr. Witherspoon."
  Dr. E. S. Dwight's " Life of President Edwards."
  Dr. Beasley's " Life of President S. S. Smith."
  " Princeton Review."
  " New York Medical
                          Repository."
  "The Presbyterian Magazine," of Philadelphia, edited by Dr. C. Van Rens-
selaer.
  " Princeton
               Magazine," edited by William C. Alexander, LL.D.
  Mr. Bancroft's " History of the United States."
                                              " Sketches of North Carolina."
  Dr. Foote's " Sketches of Virginia" and
  " Life of 'the Rev. Dr. Miller,"
                                   by his son, the Rev. Samuel Miller, D.D.
  " Life of the Rev. Dr. A. Alexander,"
                                          by his son, the Rev. Dr. James W. Alex-
ander.
  " Life of
               James Madison, Fourth President of the United States," by William C.
Rives, of Virginia, United States Senator.
  Dr. Franklin's Life and Essays.
                   " Life of
  Bishop Johns's             Bishop Meade, of Virginia."
  Mrs. Lee's Life of her father, George Washington Parke Custis.
  Judge  Duer's " Life of Lord     Stirling."
  Dr. Carnahan's " Life of Dr. John Johnston, of Newburgh, New York," and
some manuscripts papers of his, including Dr. Carnahan's Sermon at Colonel
Aaron Burr's funeral.
  " The Forum and the Bar,"
                            by David Paul Brown, Esq.
     Dr. Allibone's " Dictionary of Authors."
     Dr. Morse's " American Gazetteer."
     Messrs.   Barber and Howe's    " Historical Collections from   New Jersey and
Virginia."
     Frank Moore's " Diary."
     The Biographical Dictionaries of the Rev. Drs. Allen, Blake, and Lempriere.
     Manuscript letters of Joseph Shippen, a student in the College of New Jersey
in i75 -53-
     Mr. Parton's account of Rittenhouse's orrery, in the " New York Ledger."

  The readers of this history cannot fail to observe that the
writer has freely expressed his opinions in reference to various
 measures adopted from time to time by the authorities of the
                               PREFACE.                        j
                                                                   9

College touching   its  course of instruction and discipline, and
with respect to its fiscal affairs. For these opinions he alone is
responsible; and yet he cannot but indulge the hope that some
of them at least will have the hearty approval of the friends of
the College generally.
  In collecting his materials the writer had but little aid, with
the exception of that given him by one of his friends, who is

unwilling that any mention should be made of his services, al-
though to him the writer is more indebted in this matter than
to all others. Still, the writer is under obligations to many of
his friends for the constant
                               encouragement they have given him
to persevere in his arduous work,     how arduous none but those
who have faithfully and laboriously engaged in like under-
takings can fully appreciate; and it is a pleasure for him to
add, that to his distinguished successor in the office of Presi-
dent of the College, Dr. McCosh, the writer is indebted for im-
portant suggestions as to the plan of the work, and for the
deep interest which he has manifested in its preparation for
the press.
  To his friend the Rev. Dr. Duffield he is under peculiar
obligations for making the requisite arrangements for the pub-
lication of this work, all pecuniary interest in which the writer
has transferred to the Princeton Charitable Institution, for the
aid of indigent and worthy youths engaged in seeking a liberal
education.
  To the publishers of the work, also, the writer must tender
his thanks for the careful and satisfactory manner in which they
have performed their part in issuing it from the press.
  When he began to gather materials for a history of the Col-
lege, the writer scarcely dared to hope that' he should be spared
to complete that undertaking still, ne cheerfully gave himself
                                 ;


to it, under the impression that his labors in this line might be
of service in the hands of another, in preparing a truthful ac-
count of the origin, design, and progress of the College. But
in the kind providence of God he has been permitted to go

beyond this, and to bring to its close a history of the College
of New Jersey from its foundation in 1746 to the annual Com-
mencement of 1854, a period of one hundred and eight years ;
20                        PREFACE,

and it is his fervent prayer that this work may help to keep in
perpetual remembrance the design of those truly good and
great men who, in laying the foundations of the College, sought
to erect an institution for the advancement of piety and sound

learning, and one especially devoted to the upbuilding of the
kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
                          CONTENTS.

                                CHAPTER          I.                                 PAGE
The Origin of the College                                                            23


                                CHAPTER II.
The Design of the College, and its Relations to the Church and the State        .    61


                               CHAPTER III.
The Charters of 1746 and 1748                                                        70

                                CHAPTER IV.

    the Two Charters of the College    ........
Memoir of Governor Belcher, and Brief Notices of the Trustees named in
                                                                                     98

                                CHAPTER V.
The Administration of the Rev. Jonathan Dickinson, First President of the
    College; and Memoir of his Life                                                 114


                                CHAPTER VI.
The Administration and Life of the Rev. Aaron Burr, Second President of
    the College                                                                     127

                               CHAPTER VII.
The Annual Commencement of 1757, and the Election and Administration
    of President Edwards                                                            169


                              CHAPTER VIII.
Memoir of the Rev. Jonathan Edwards, Third President of the College             .
                                                                                    178


                               CHAPTER IX.
The Interval between the Decease of President Edwards and the Inaugura-
    tion of the Rev.   Samuel Davies as President of the College   .   .
                                                                                .192
                                                                           21
22                                 CONTENTS.


                                CHAPTER X.
                                                                             PACK
The   Administration of the Rev. Samuel Davies, Fourth President of the
      College                                                                203


                               CHAPTER XI.
Memoir of the Rev. Samuel Davies, Fourth President of the College    .
                                                                         .219

                               CHAPTER XII.
The   Administration of the   Rev. Samuel Finley, Fifth President of the
      College                                                                249


                              CHAPTER XIII.
Memoir of the Rev. Samuel Finley, D.D., Fifth President of the College   .
                                                                             277


                              CHAPTER XIV.
The Interval between the Death of Dr. Finley and the Accession of Dr.
      Witherspoon, from July 1 8, 1766, to August 17, 1768   .   .   .
                                                                         .285

                               CHAPTER XV.
The   Administration of the Rev. Dr. John Witherspoon, Sixth President of
      the College                                                             3



Appendix to the Chapter on Dr. Witherspoon's Administration      .   .   .
                                                                              368


                              CHAPTER XVI.
A Memoir of the Rev. John Witherspoon, D.D., LL.D., Sixth President of
      the College                                                             3 84
                        HISTORY
                                 OF THE



   COLLEGE OF                        NEW JERSEY.

                        CHAPTER               I.



                  THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.

  ON the occasion of his inauguration as President of the Col-
lege of New Jersey, on the 28th of June, 1854, the writer of
this   History gave a brief outline of its origin and design.    In
this outline the College was represented as "being in fact a con-
tinuation of the one over which the pious and learned Jonathan
Dickinson presided," and as being established under the aus-
pices of theSynod of New York which Synod at that time
                                          ;



embraced not only the Presbyterian churches in New York,
but also the larger part of those in New Jersey.
  A  more thorough examination has served to confirm the
view then taken as to the identity of the College, under the char-
ter given in 1746, by the Honorable John        Hamilton, President
of his Majesty's Council    ;
                                and under the one granted two years
after, by hisExcellency Jonathan Belcher, Esq., his Majesty's
Governor of the Province of New Jersey. But the statement
as to the Synod was not as exact as it might have been.  The
credit given to the   Synod of New York belongs almost exclu-
sively to certain leading  members of that body, one of whom
was the pastor of the only Presbyterian church in the city of
New York, and the others pastors of Presbyterian churches in
East Jersey.
                                                            23
24        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

     Particular attention     is    due to both these matters,    for   the
reason that they have been misapprehended by most of those
who have undertaken to write or to speak of them. At the
time application was        first   made to the civil authorities of New
Jersey for a college charter, the state of things in the Presbyte-
rian Church in this country was a very peculiar one, and the
condition of the civil affairs of the Province was also peculiar.
In     any other circumstances than those which existed at the
time the first charter was obtained, and for a few years after, it
is   hardly probable that a charter,         in   the   name of the King,
would have been granted by the Governors and Council of
New Jersey for the erection of a college to be under the con-
trol   of ministers and laymen of the Presbyterian Church.               It

will therefore not be amiss to recite the facts to which reference
is   here made, before entering upon a regular chronological
detail of the events  which properly constitute the history of
the College.


     The first efforts for the erection of a college in New Jersey
have an intimate connection with the first schism in the Presby-
terian Church.  This schism began in 1741, with the separation
of the Presbytery of New Brunswick from the Synod of Phila-
delphia.   It was consummated in 1745, by the withdrawal of

the Presbytery of New York from the same Synod, then the
only one ; and by the organization of a new Synod, "under
the    title   of the   Synod of New York," in the autumn of that
year.
     At its formation the Synod of New York consisted of the
Presbyteries of New York, New Brunswick, and New Castle.
There was another and older Presbytery of the name of New
Castle, in the Synod of Philadelphia.
  The Presbytery of New York was formed in 1738, by uniting
the Presbyteries of Long Island and East Jersey, and the Pres-
bytery of New Brunswick was also formed in 1738, upon the
petition of some members of the Presbytery of New York, then
just constituted, to be erected into a distinct Presbytery with
some members of the Presbytery of Philadelphia. The Presby-
tery ofNew Castle, the second of that name, was formed in
                  THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.                    ~>-




1741, and it was composed of members who sympathized with
their   New Brunswick brethren, and who refused to remain any
longer   in   Presbyteries connected with the   Synod of Philadel-
phia, from which these brethren had been virtually cut off with-
out any respect had to the usual forms of citation and trial.
This Presbytery was first known as the Presbytery of London-
derry, but before the    Synod of New York was organized it
took the name of New Castle.
  The schism above mentioned arose        not from any different
views in reference to the Calvinistic system of doctrine as set
forth in the Westminster Confession of Faith, which had been

adopted by the entire Synod, but chiefly from conflicting opin-
ions with respect to the requisites for admission to the ministry,
and in regard to the countenance which should be given to
the religious excitements of that period, which prevailed to a
greater or less extent in New England and in the middle Prov-
inces.    Amajority of the old Synod insisted upon a regular
training of candidates in studies usually pursued at colleges
or universities, and they were unwilling to license and ordain

preachers whose preliminary training had been defective, al-
though they might be sound in the faith and give evidence of
fervent piety. The majority also objected earnestly to all intru-
sion into their congregations, on the part of the revivalists,
which some of the New Brunswick ministers and their friends
openly advocated and practised.
  These differences in opinion and practice were the occasion
of many sharp and bitter controversies, which prepared the

way for the rending asunder of the entire body.
  The ministers and elders who organized the Synod of New
York were all of one mind as to the desirableness of religious
revivals, and as to the duty of doing all in their power to pro-
mote them     but they were not equally prudent in the use of
              ;



the requisite means for attaining their object, nor were they all

agreed as to the evidences of true conversion.      As a body the
Presbytery of New York was more conservative than the Pres-
bytery of New Brunswick. And while these two Presbyteries
were yet in connection with the Synod of Philadelphia^ the leading
men in them evidently differed in opinion as to the provision
    VOL. I.   3
26    HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

which should be made for the education of candidates for the
holy ministry. The New Brunswick men, several of whom
had been trained at the school established by the Rev. Wil-
liam Tennent, Sr., on the southwest bank of the Neshaminy,
in Pennsylvania, and who had been greatly blessed of God in

their labors as ministers of the gospel, were content with the

comparatively meagre instruction in the arts and sciences given
at that seminary of learning    and they deemed the different
                                ;




efforts made to establish a school of a higher order as aimed

against their foster-mother and school of theology.     In this
                                                          "
school, now well known under the designation of the         Log
College," more account was very properly      made  of personal
piety and religious experience, in candidates for the ministry,
than of a complete knowledge of both their preparatory and
their professional studies.  And it is equally true that at this
school the great benefits of mental discipline and of a familiar
acquaintance with the several branches of philosophy and of
polite learning were not estimated at their full value.
  The ministers of the New York Presbytery, most of whom
were pastors of churches in East Jersey and residents in that
part of the Province, were no less ardent friends of revivals
than were their brethren of the Presbytery of New Brunswick.
Nor were they less fully persuaded of the unspeakable impor-
tance of personal piety as an element of success in preaching
the gospel.  But they did not approve the course of their New
Brunswick brethren in reference to intrusion, and in the matter
of licensing candidates. They were also desirous that the best
possible provision should be made for the preparatory and pro-
fessional education of all candidates for the ministry.   Before
the schism they concurred with their brethren in the Synod of
Philadelphia in the project of founding, for this very purpose,
a school or seminary of learning.  This is evident from the fol-
lowing record in the minutes of that body at their sessions in
Philadelphia, May, 1739, six years before the schism of 1745:
"An overture for erecting a school or seminary of learning
being brought    in   by the Committee, the Synod unanimously
approved the design of it and in order to the accomplishing
                            ;



it did nominate Messrs. Pemberton, Dickinson, Cross, and An-
                 THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.                          2;


derson, two of which, if they can be prevailed upon, to be sent
home to Europe to prosecute this affair with proper directions.
And in order to this, it is appointed that the Commission of
the Synod, with correspondents from every Presbytery, meet
at Philadelphia on the third Wednesday of August next.  And
if it   should be found necessary that Mr. Pemberton should go
to Boston; pursuant to this design, it   is   ordered that the Pres-
bytery of New York supply his pulpit during his absence."
  Messrs. Pemberton and Dickinson were members of the New
York Presbytery, they were leading men in that body, they
were present at the meeting of the Synod, they were members
of the Committee which brought the overture before the Synod,

they had the respect and confidence of all their brethren, both
of the Old Side and of the New, as the two principal parties
in the Synod of Philadelphia were then called.    Had they not
been in favor of the proposed measure, they would not have
been the first persons named to take so active a part in carry-
ing it into effect. Mr. Pemberton was a native of Boston, well
known and highly esteemed by the ministers and people there,
and perhaps the most influential person the Synod could have]
selected to solicit aid in that city.
  This statement of the different views entertained by the lead-
ing men in the Presbyteries of New York and New Brunswick
is confirmed by what is said in a letter, of May 30, 1746,
addressed by the  Synod of Philadelphia to President Clap,
of Yale College, and which has reference to a proposed ar-
rangement by which candidates for the ministry at the school
established by the Synod of Philadelphia at New London,

Pennsylvania, in 1744, might have certain privileges granted
to them by Yale College.  The writers of it say, "And by his
[Mr. Whitefield's] interest, Mr. Gilbert Tennent grew hardy
enough to tell our Synod that he would oppose their design of
getting assistance to erect a college, wherever we should
                                                          make
application,   and would maintain young men          at   his   father's

school in opposition to us."
  This must have occurred at the meeting of the Synod of
Philadelphiain 1739, and the language here attributed to Mr.
Tennent was most probably used by him before the above-
28        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

mentioned overture was submitted to the Synod         ;
                                                          for it   appears
from the minutes of 1739, that, on the morning of the day on
which the design of the overture was approved in the afternoon,
the Rev. Gilbert Tennent protested in behalf of himself and of
such as would join with him, viz., William Tennent, Sr., William
Tennent, Jr., Samuel Blair, Eleazar Wales, Charles Tennent, min-
isters,   Thomas Worthington, David Chambers, William McCrea,
John Weir, elders, against the act respecting the trial of candi-
dates.  This act required all candidates who had not studied at
a college or university to be examined by a committee of Synod
before being received under the care of any Presbytery and

placed on trial for license to preach the gospel. In the debate
on this subject it is highly probable that Mr. Tennent gave
utterance to his feelings in no very measured terms, under the

deep conviction that the resolution then under consideration
was aimed against his father's school and was designed to pre-
            "
vent his        training gracious   men for the ministry."     Words to
this effect are also given in the Synod's letter to President Clap
as having been uttered        by Mr. Tennent in connection with his
protest.  It is not likely, therefore, had Mr. Tennent and his

friends been present when the Synod expressed its approval of
the design of the overture respecting the erection of a school
to be under the care of the Synod, that they would have even
acquiesced in a resolution approving that design. If, upon
presenting their protest against the act in regard to candidates,
they retired and took no further part in the proceedings of the
Synod, which were then drawing to a close, and which were
closed that very day, we can readily understand how it was
that the design of the overture was unanimously approved, as
stated in the record.
  No member of the New York Presbytery united with Mr.
Tennent and his friends in their protest at this meeting, or in
the one presented by them the following year, when the Synod
reaffirmed their act respecting the examination of candidates

by a committee of the Synod.
  The plan of sending two of their number to Europe                     to
      funds to aid in the establishing of a school, was given
solicit

up by the Synod of Philadelphia and the reason for giving it
                                         ;
                 THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.                     2g


up may be learned from the following minute of the date of
May 29, 1740: "The Commission of Synod did meet last year
according to appointment, in order to conclude upon a method
for prosecuting the overture respecting the
                                                erecting a seminary
of learning.    The minutes of that proceeding were read, and
although herein it is found that they concluded upon calling
the whole    Synod together as necessary in that affair, yet the
war breaking out between England and Spain, the calling of
the Synod was omitted, and the whole affair was laid aside for
that time." The war here spoken of would have rendered a
voyage to England far more hazardous to those selected to go
abroad, or, as the phrase then was, to go home, in order to
solicit funds for their projected school and the difficulty of
                                            ;



obtaining the requisite aid would have been greatly increased.
The entire scheme was not again resumed.
   Next year the contentions in the Synod began to come to a
head.  The meeting was small. No one from the Presbytery
of New York was present. The members of the Old Side party
were in a majority; and they availed themselves of the oppor-
tunity to protest against the     members of the New Brunswick
                              "
Presbytery being permitted        to sit and vote as members of the

Synod." The reasons for this remarkable protest can be seen
in full on pages 155-158 of the printed minutes.  It is suf-

ficient for our purpose to know that the protest led at once

to the separation of the New Brunswick Presbytery from the

Synod. Sincere and earnest efforts to effect a reconciliation
were made the following year by the Presbytery of New York,
and were continued until May, 1745, but all to no purpose.
  Failing to bring the two parties to such an understanding as
would enable them to come to an amicable adjustment, the
Presbytery of New York deemed it their duty to withdraw, and
to take measures for the formation of another and separate

Synod. Both these they did not because they approved the
                                  ;



conduct of their New Brunswick brethren in the matters alleged
against them, but solely on the ground that these brethren had
been irregularly cut off from the Synod, and denied their rights
as members of that body.      They believed them to be sincere
and     faithful servants of Christ, and men owned   and blessed of
 30
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

 God in their labors        ;   yet they were not blind to their defects.
And before they united with them in a new Synod, all con-
cerned entered into an engagement to abstain from denunciations
of their brethren from whom they differed in opinion, from all
divisive courses, and to retire peaceably from the                    new Synod
ifthey could not conscientiously submit to its decisions and
orders; terms which would have readily secured their speedy
restoration to the old Synod, had they been of a mind to offer
or to accept them.
  This state of things prevented all further united action to
secure the erection of a college or seminary of learning. Three
of the Presbyteries in connection with the Synod of Philadelphia
made provision for establishing a school or academy as early as
November, 1743, which in May, 1744, was taken under the care
of the Synod. The plan of the school was a very liberal one.
It    had a succession of able teachers,* and it rendered good
service to the cause of religion and learning.   But in the un-
settled state of affairs then existing, the Presbytery of New

York, consisting almost wholly of ministers and churches
in East Jersey, although still in connection with the Synod of

Philadelphia, could take no part in fostering this institution.
It was yet uncertain whether the Presbytery itself could con-

tinue its relations to the Synod; and until this matter was de-

  * The first teacher of this school was the Rev. Francis
                                                              Allison, pastor of the
Presbyterian church in New London, Pennsylvania.     He continued to have charge
of the school until his removal from New London to Philadelphia, in 1752, at which
time he became the principal of a grammar-school in that city.   This Philadelphia
school was, in 1755, erected into a college, of which Mr. Allison was made vice-

provost.  The erection of this college and Mr. Allison's connection with it seemed
to do away the necessity of a school, of the rank of a college, under the
                                                                       supervision
of the Synod ; and the Synod's school continued to be only a preparatory school of
a high order.   As principal of the Synod's school, Mr. Allison was succeeded by
his assistant-teacher, the Rev. Alexander McDowell. In 1754 the Rev. Matthew
Wilson was appointed teacher of languages, and Mr. McDowell continued to give
instruction in logic, mathematics, and in natural and moral philosophy.    This
school was finally removed to Newark, Delaware, and received a charter from the

Proprietaries, under the name of the Newark Academy.
  In 1756, Mr. Allison received from Nassau Hall the degree of Master of Arts,
and from the University of Glasgow the degree of Doctor in Divinity, and he is
said to have been the first Presbyterian minister in this
                                                          country upon whom this
degree was ever conferred.
                  THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                                    ^
termined, it was inexpedient to give their countenance and aid
to the Synod's school, or to undertake to erect one to be under
their    own control, either virtually or directly.   It is   therefore
almost certain that nothing was done by the Presbytery of New
York, or by any of the leading members of that body, towards
the erection of a college or seminary of learning, until 1745,
when the Presbytery separated itself from the Synod, and
thereby consummated the first great schism in the Presbyterian
Church. It is not improbable, however, that, before this took
place, Mr. Dickinson, in order to meet present emergencies,
established a private school at Elizabethtown, according to a
commonly received tradition to this effect. It is known that
he instructed certain candidates for the ministry in their theo-
logical studies. About this time, also, Mr. Burr had a classical
school at Newark.
  After the schism, Messrs. Dickinson, Pierson, Pemberton,
Burr, and others of the Presbytery of New York, unable to
unite with the Synod of Philadelphia in sustaining their school,
not satisfied with the limited course of instruction given at the
Neshaminy school, and having become more or less alienated
from the colleges of New England, turned their thoughts
the erecting of a college, in which ample provision should be
made for the intellectual and religious culture of youth de-
sirous to obtain a liberal education, and more especially for
the thorough training of such as were candidates for the holy
ministry.  That they might the more effectually accomplish
their purpose, they sought to obtain a charter for the erection
of a college in New Jersey.  In this undertaking they had no
assistance from either Synod;      and most probably at that time
they neither sought nor desired it.     The Synod of Philadelphia
were interested    in the success of their own school the Pres-
                                                          ;




bytery of New Brunswick in that of the          Neshaminy school.
The venerable founder of this school, the Rev. Wm. Tennent,
Sr., was still living when measures were taken to obtain the de-
sired charter.    His sons and his pupils were the leading men
in the Presbyteries of New Brunswick and New Castle.               His
eldest son, the Rev. Gilbert Tennent, in his famous Nottingham

sermon, had openly expressed his preference for private schools
    32
                 HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

    or seminaries, under the care of skilful and experienced Chris-
                           "
    tians (see Dr. Hodge's   History of the Presbyterian Church,"
                                "
    vol.   ii.
                 page     as the most likely method to stock the
                        154),
    Church with a faithful ministry." The Rev. Samuel Blair, one
    of the most distinguished scholars and ablest men trained at
    the Log College, had established at his residence in Fagg's
    Manor, Pennsylvania, and within the limits of the New Castle
    Presbytery, a classical and theological school, at which Presi-
    dent Davies and other prominent ministers* of the gospel were
    prepared for their work. Had there been no rupture of the old
    Synod, there is every probability that there would have been
    a hearty co-operation on the part of the Presbytery of New
    York with the Synod of Philadelphia in the establishment and
    endowment of a synodical school. And after the schism, had
    the    Log College ceased to exist before the formation                 of the

    Synod of New York, it is morally certain that the Synod, as
    soon as it was organized, would have promptly given their
,   countenance to the plan of erecting a college, to be under the
    supervision and control of ministers and laymen whose church
    relations were with their own body.    This is almost evident
    from the fact that, two years after, upon an application               for an-
    other charter with greater privileges, the former friends of the
    Neshaminy school became the earnest and devoted friends of
    the College of New Jersey.      But at the juncture just men-
    tioned it so happened, in the good providence of God, that the"
    work of initiating the measures for the erection of a college
    and for obtaining a charter devolved almost exclusively upon
    the leading ministers and laymen of the Presbytery of New
    York, most of whom resided in East Jersey, and were men of
    high standing in the community and held                    in great respect for
    their wisdom, learning, and piety.  In the whole Synod there
    were no men so likely to find favor in the sight of the Gover-
    nor and of his Council, and to obtain from them a compliance
    with their petition.
       Lewis Morris was Governor of New Jersey during the whole
     of the excitement that led to the rupture of the Presbyterian
     Church, and he was Governor when the first application was

                           * Dr.
                                    John Rodgers, Dr. Robert Smith.
                  THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                                       33

made for a college charter. His son Robert Hunter Morris
was the Chief Justice of the Province during the whole of his
administration, and for many years after.    Both of them must
have been more or less familiar with the divisions or parties in
the Presbyterian Church and, although having no particular
                               ;




regard for any one of these parties, it is more than probable
that they had a special dislike to the one most nearly allied
in views, feelings, and style of preaching to Whitefield and his

admirers. This was the party of the Tennents, Blairs, Row-
land, Finley, and others of kindred spirit, who were members
of the Synod, but not of the Presbytery, of New York.
   In 1741 an attempt was          made to indict and convict the Rev.
John Rowland for horse-stealing, he having been mistaken for
a remarkable adventurer of the name of Bell.     Robert Hunter
Morris presided at the trial, and it is reported that with great
severity he charged the grand jury to find a bill against Mr.
Rowland. After two refusals and as many reproofs, they com-
plied with the instructions             given to them, and found the re-
quired bill.    Whereupon Mr. Rowland was regularly tried; but
he was also acquitted.
   The witnesses for the defence were the Rev. William Tennent,
Jr.,   and Messrs. Joshua Anderson and Benjamin Stevens.               By
the testimony of one or more of these witnesses the fact was
fully established that Mr. Rowland was in another Province,
                                                                       and
not in    New Jersey, on the very day on which the theft was
committed.       At the same term of the court, for an incorrect
statement      made by Anderson in reference to another party
while giving his testimony in this case, he was, by order of the
court, indicted for perjury.  It is most probable that the mis-

take    made by him was due to failure of memory, the matter
having reference to the time and place when and where he saw
this other party.
   At a subsequent term            of the court, Messrs. Tennent and
Stevens were also charged with perjury; and bills were found
against them.   Mr. Tennent was tried and acquitted. Mr.
Stevens was not       tried.       It   is   probable that a nolle prosequi
was entered by the Attorney-General, in view of the evidence
adduced in Mr. Tennent's case.
34
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

      Neither Mr. Rowland nor Mr. Tennent owed anything to the
favor or the indulgence of the court, which would have had them
both convicted if it had been possible. They were both asso-
ciated in the public mind with the most active and earnest of
the revival preachers and this whole class of ministers were
                        ;




objects of dislike to such men as Chief-Justice Morris and his
father, Governor Morris.
   In an application at this time for a college charter, it would
have been very indiscreet for any of this class of persons to
unite in the petition, even had they been warmly in favor of the

project.  Their taking part in the matter would have surely
resulted in a denial of the request.   But, for the reasons which
have been given above, they were not disposed at this time to
take any part in promoting this enterprise, and the leading men
in the Presbytery of    New York were left by their brethren in
the other Presbyteries to pursue their plan without aid or inter-
ference.
      The petition for a college charter was refused by Governor
Morris, but on what grounds is not certainly known.     It may

have been that he doubted his authority to grant such a charter
as was asked of him, or, having no doubt as to his power, he may
have deemed it altogether inexpedient to clothe a body of Dis-
senters, as he regarded the petitioners, with the power and
privileges sought to be attained by a charter for a college to be
under the exclusive control of Presbyterian ministers and lay-
men, however discreet and liberal-minded the petitioners them-
selves    might be.   Governor Morris was Chief Justice of New
York when a charter was refused once and again, by the Coun-
cil of that Province, to the First Presbyterian Church in the
city of New York, on the ground that there was no precedent
for granting corporate privileges to a body of ^Dissenters.   The
sole object of the church in seeking to obtain a charter was to
secure their property more firmly, which was then held in trust
by certain individual members of the congregation.
  At the time of their second application, Governor Burnet
was Governor of New York as well as of New Jersey, and
the Presbyterians in New York City had hope, from the well-
known liberal views of his father, Bishop Burnet, and from his
                   THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                                ^
own professions of liberality, that he would have given them
his countenance and aid     ;
                              but he did not. Upon a second re-
fusal,   both the petitioners and the Council requested that the
petition might be sent to the Lords of Trade and Plantations,
in London, for fheir decision.  But the Governor did not send
it   until the   i6th of May, 1724, nearly four years after he was
requested to     do so.   Richard West, Attorney-General for Ire-
land and Solicitor-General to the Board of Trade, and a brother-
in-law of Governor Burnet, to whom the petition was referred,

gave it as his opinion that in the general and abstract view of
the thing there was nothing in the request unreasonable or im-

proper.   Yet no charter was obtained until after the American
Revolution, when one was granted by the State of New York.
Perhaps one reason why the Board of Trade did not instruct
Governor Burnet and his Council to give the charter in ques-
tion was, that Mr. West died in December of that year,       1724,
  and the matter was lost sight of. Whether Governor Morris,
who must have been familiar with the proceedings in this case,
was influenced by this refusal of the New York Council to in-
corporate a body of Dissenters cannot now be known but that
                                                         ;



he refused to grant a charter for a college in New Jersey ap-
                                                    "
pears from a statement in the supplement to the       Weekly
Mercury and New York Gazette" of Monday, the 28th of July,
1755.   That such an application was made and refused is con-
firmed by the fact that there was no denial as to this point in the
reply to the supplement, which reply was evidently written by one
familiar with the history of the efforts made to obtain a charter,
and most probably by a Trustee of the College. Had Governor
Morris lived, or had he been succeeded by one of like spirit, no
charter given in the name of the King could have been obtained
by the petitioners from the Governor and Council of New Jer-
sey.  And from the time that the eastern and western divisions
of New Jersey were united, in 1702, under the exclusive juris-
diction of the Crown, until the death of Governor Morris, in

1746, there was probably no period when a royal charter could
have been obtained for the erection of a school or college by
a body of Presbyterian ministers and laymen, or by any class
of religionists, whether Churchmen or Dissenters.       We might
36
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

possibly except from this period the years from 1736 to 1738,
when John Anderson and John Hamilton were acting Gov-
ernors, at the end of         which time Lewis Morris received his
commission as Governor.
     From the accession of Cornbury, in 1702, to that of Morris,
in 1738, the   Province of New Jersey may to some extent be
viewed as an appendage of New York, the Governor of New
York being also Governor of New Jersey. The Governors
during this period were Lord Cornbury, Lord Lovelace, Robert
Hunter,      Wm. Burnet, John Montgomerie, and Wm. Cosby.
Upon the death of Lord Lovelace, Richard Ingoldsby, the Lieu-
tenant-Governor, had charge of the government for nearly a
year.   Upon his removal,         Wm.
                                Pinhorne, as senior Councillor,
for a very short time was at the head of affairs in New Jersey.

Upon Governor Hunter's return to England, Lewis Morris, as
President of the Council, acted as Governor, and a second time,
upon the death of Governor Montgomerie. John Anderson,
President of the Council, acted as Governor for a few weeks,
upon the death of Governor Cosby and John Hamilton, upon
                                                   ;



the death of Anderson. The jurisdiction of the acting Gov-
ernors here named was limited to New Jersey.
   In virtue of the concessions of Carteret and Berkeley, the first
Lords Proprietors of New Jersey, to the settlers of this Province,
there seem to have been a greater freedom in matters of re-

ligion and learning in New Jersey than in New York, and less
frequent attempts on the part of the Governors to enforce the
instructions given them by the Home Government.         These in-
                                                                            "
structions required the Governors of the several Provinces                      to

give   all   countenance and encouragements to the exercise of the
ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the
                                 Bishop of London, as far as
conveniently might be done in their respective Provinces ;" and
                                      "
particularly directed that no schoolmaster be hereafter per-
mitted to come from this kingdom, and to keep school within
this   our said Province, without the license of the Bishop of
London; and that no other person now here, or who shall come
from other parts, shall be admitted to keep school without your
                                  "
license      first   obtained."       There is reason," says Wm. Smith,
                                          "
the historian of New York,                    to think that this instruction has
                  THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                                 37

been continued from the [English] Revolution to the present
time to the Governors of the Provinces."
  Bent upon exercising all the power given to him, and ever
ready to go beyond the spirit of his instructions, Cornbury, in
                                         "
administering the affairs of New York,     insisted that neither
ministers nor the schoolmasters of the Dutch," the most numer-
ous persons in the Province, " had a right to preach or instruct
within his gubernatorial rule" (see     Wm. Smith's " History of
New York," page 172), and this, notwithstanding by the terms
of surrender the     Dutch were not to be molested or interfered
with in matters of religion,      the eighth article of the terms

being in these words "The Dutch shall enjoy their liberty of
                        :




conscience in Divine worship and Dutch discipline."    (See
Samuel Smith's " History of New Jersey," page 44.)
  An avowed friend and supporter of the Church of England,
he was an enemy to all classes of ministers who faithfully and
boldly preached the truth, and who refused to submit to his
arbitrary orders. Attached to the Church, not because it was
the Church of God, but because it was the Church of England
established by law, he imprisoned a truly excellent and devoted

missionary of that Church, the Rev. Thorowgood Moore, for
denouncing certain well-known and indecorous practices of his
Excellency the Governor, and for refusing to administer the
communion to Lieutenant- Governor Ingoldsby on account of
his debauchery and profaneness.      These two worthies, the Gov-
ernor and the Lieutenant-Governor, "par nobile fratrum," had
him arrested in New Jersey and brought to Amboy; and there,
contrary to law, he was forced by their order into a barge,
taken to New York, and committed to the custody of a guard
at the fort.   After a confinement of three weeks, he escaped, and,
in   company with the Rev. John Brooks, another minister of
the Church of England, a man of kindred        spirit, and   who had
                                                             "
reason to apprehend like treatment (see S. Smith's   History
of New Jersey," page 333), he went to Marblehead, Massachu-
setts,   where they took passage for England, intending to make
known to the authorities there the situation        of affairs here.

Unhappily, the vessel was lost at sea, and all on board perished.
The Rev. Mr. Talbot, a well-known minister of the English
28
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
                                                   "
Church, said of these good men, that they were       the most

pious and industrious missionaries the Honorable Society ever
                             "
sent over." (See Hatfield's History of Elizabethtown.")
  Another instance of Lord Cornbury's tyranny is seen in his
treatment of the Rev. Francis   Makemie and the Rev. John
Hampton, two Presbyterian ministers, who, on their way to
Boston from their homes on the Eastern Shores of Maryland
and Virginia, stopped in New York, and there preached without
his Lordship's license, one in a private house in the city, and
the other on Long Island.    He caused them to be arrested and
brought before him, and ordered them to be confined. Mr.
Makemie was indicted and tried and when acquitted by the
                                    ;




jury, he was required by the court to pay the costs of trial.
In a letter dated October 14, 1706, to the Board of Trade, his
Lordship gives his account of the matter, and confirms what is
here said of his treatment of these men he excuses his treat-
                                           :




ment of them on the ground that they were strolling preachers,
and disposed to bid defiance to the government. Mr. Makemie
was a native of Ireland, and the first Presbyterian minister ever
settled in America as a pastor.
     In the very first year that Cornbury entered upon the admin-
istration of affairs in   New York, he and certain of his officials
were guilty of great oppression and gross cruelty, in seizing
and imprisoning Samuel Bownas, a preacher of the Society of
Friends, for preaching at a private house in Hempstead, Long
Island, and speaking in disparaging terms of the Church of
England, in relation to the sacrament of baptism. He was
confined in a room which two years before had been protested
against as an unlawful prison.      His friends were denied admit-
tance; and, that he might be chargeable to no man, he learned
to make shoes, and earned his food.         The grand jury refusing
to find a bill against him, he was released, having been in prison

nearly a whole year. This act of seizing and imprisoning Bow-
nas is said to have been done by Cornbury at the instigation of
two men who had been Quakers, but who had renounced their
faith and had turned Churchmen.          One of these was the Rev.
George   Keith,    who  was  a zealous  advocate  of the Church of

England,   and   a bitter opponent  of all non-conformists.
                THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                               ^
  These are a few of the things which made Cornbury so
odious to the people in both Provinces, and which contributed
to his downfall.  His successors in office were men of higher
and nobler aims   ;
                      and yet some of these found it expedient not
to bring upon themselves the hostility of the more earnest par-
tisans of the Church of England.
     Lord Lovelace, the immediate successor of Cornbury, was
greatly  respected for his upright administration of affairs,
which, however, in consequence of his decease, was of short
duration.   Had he, or'any of his successors, ventured to grant
an act of incorporation to the members of any dissenting body,
it   might and probably would have been a ground of complaint
against them, that they had disregarded their instructions. As
it was, Governor Hunter, one of the most liberal-minded and


popular of these Governors, was complained of for his lack of
zeal in behalf of the Church. Against this charge he found it
necessary to defend himself; and his friend Lewis Morris, then
Chief Justice of New York, united with him in defending his
officialconduct. To show that he was not unmindful of his
duty, Governor    Hunter furnished to the Government officials in
England   evidence   of his zeal in behalf of the Church in both
the Provinces of which he was Governor and in the following
                                             ;

                                                          "
terms he made a solemn protestation of his devotion         to the
true interests of our Holy Mother, in whose communion, ever
since I was capable of sober thoughts, I have lived, and, by the
                                                            "
blessing of God, I am resolved to die." (See Whitehead's Con-
tributions," etc., page 153.) At the same time the Governor did
not hesitate to speak his mind very freely in regard to some of
his clerical opponents.     Under the date of October 10, 1711,
                                             "
writing  to  the   Board of  Trade, he says,   It is reported that

the Bishop of London has appointed Rev. Mr.        Vesey as his
commissary for    New York.      Governor Hunter hopes that Mr.
Talbot will be appointed his Lordship's commissary for New
Jersey, and Mr. Phillips for Pennsylvania though : I know no
good they have ever done, I know no great harm they can do at
                                 "
present"    (See Whitehead's Contributions.")
     Governor Burnet, the immediate successor of         Governor
 Hunter, interpreted his instructions as giving him authority to
40       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

judge of the qualifications of ministers, even of those licensed
by the Bishop of London, and complaint was made against him
for his conduct in this matter, as appears from a letter addressed
to him   by his brother-in-law, Richard West, Solicitor-General
of the Board of Trade, who, in writing to the Governor in
regard to the complaint of the Bishop of London, that clergy-
men licensed by him were subjected by the Governor to a
                          "
second examination, says,   Your method is to present him a
text, and give him a Bible, then lock him up in a room by
himself, and then in case he does not produce, in a given time,
a satisfactory sermon, you refuse to license him. The conse-
quence is that the man must starve. I have seen many com-
plaints against Governors, and no one was surprised.    You are
surely  the first who ever brought himself into  difficulties by
an inordinate care of souls'' (See Whitehead's " Contributions.")
  It can hardly be supposed that a Governor who was so

watchful of the spiritual instruction given to the members of
his quasi established Church would be anxious to aid in build-

ing up churches of other denominations, either by granting
them corporate privileges, or by giving them charters for the
erection of schools and    colleges.   Aware, no doubt, of the
difficulties of his predecessor arising from his liberal treatment
of non-conformists in the matter of civil appointments, he was
not disposed to bring upon himself the like charge of being
neglectful of his duty to the Church, or of being too indulgent
to Dissenters.   And this will account for his conduct in the
matter of a charter for the First Presbyterian Church of New
York, of which mention has been made above.
     Of the views and feelings of Governors Montgomerie and
Cosby in regard to the granting of charters upon the petition
of Dissenters, nothing particular is known; and there is no
reason to believe, from anything that is recorded of their re-
spective administrations, that in the matter named they would
have pursued a different course from that marked out by their
predecessors in office.
  On the 2Oth of April, 1730, while Mr. Montgomerie was
Governor of New York and New Jersey, there was passed at
St. James an   Order of Council, approving the instructions sent
                    THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                                              ^
to all the Governors in America (except of the Leeward Islands,
New England, North and South Carolina), directing them to
"support the Bishop of London and his commissaries in the
exercise of such ecclesiastical jurisdiction as is granted to them."
And this included the licensing of schoolmasters as well as of
preachers.
  During the administration of Governor Cosby occurred the
famous trial of John Peter Zenger, printer of the " New York
Journal," for a libel against the English Government and the
Governor of New York.         The trial involved the question
whether or no there was freedom for the press in the Province
of New York.           There was intense feeling on the subject           ;
                                                                              and
for denying the competency of the court to take cognizance of
the case, Messrs. Alexander and William Smith, the two most
eminent lawyers of New York, who had offered to defend
Zenger, were excluded from further practice in the Supreme
Court, and their names were stricken from the roll of attorneys;
nor were they restored          until after the death of      Cosby, in 1736.
Andrew Hamilton,* a famous lawyer from Philadelphia, and
rendered   still more famous by his efforts and success in this

trial, engaged in the defence, and obtained a verdict for his
client, by which it was established that the jury are to decide
not only that a paper alleged to be seditious was published by
the party accused, but also whether it is of a libellous or sedi-
tious character.   It is mentioned as a remark of the late Gou-

verneur Morris, that "the trial of Zenger, in 1735, was the germ
of American freedom. "f      Governor Cosby was evidently no
friend to freedom of speech and of the press, and most prob-

ably no patron of learning.
  Richard Ingoldsby, the Lieutenant-Governor under Corn-
bury, and who, before the arrival of Lord Lovelace, administered
the affairs of the Province, was a man of like views and spirit
with Cornbury.    Lewis Morris, in virtue of his office as Presi-
dent of its Council, was twice acting Governor of New Jersey,
   first   from the summer of 1719 to the summer of 1720, and

 * A different
                 person and of a different family from Governor Andrew Hamilton,
 f The Forum of Philadelphia, by David Paul Brown.
    VOL. i. 4
42      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

again from July i, 1731, upon the death of Governor Mont-
gomerie, to the arrival of Governor Cosby, in 1732. Governor
Cosby dying upon the loth of March, 1736, John Anderson,
President of the Council for New Jersey, administered the gov-
ernment of this Province until his own death, which occurred
between two and three weeks after he became the acting Gov-
ernor.    He was admjtted to the Council by Governor Hunter,
who, in his report of the matter to the Board of Trade, apolo-
gized for displacing an unworthy Churchman and substituting
in his room a worthy Dissenter.      He was "a gentleman of the
strictest honor and integrity, justly valued and lamented by all
his acquaintance." He was a brother of the Rev. James Ander-

son, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in the city of New
York.    He was succeeded by John Hamilton, the next senior
Councillor, who discharged the duties of the Governor until
the accession of Lewis Morris as Governor, in 1738. As early
as 1699, Morris was made President of the Council by Gov-
ernor Andrew Hamilton    ;   and, with a few short intermissions,
he was a member of the Council until he was appointed Gov-
ernor.  He was active and influential in bringing about the
surrender of the Proprietary Governments in East and West
Jersey, and for this service he was named at that time by the
Lords of Trade for the post of Governor but Viscount Corn-
                                           ;




bury, son of the second Earl of Clarendon, and a cousin of
Queen Anne, received the commission. Morris was twice sus-
pended from the Council by Cornbury, on account of his stren-
uous opposition to his Lordship's administration. But in what-
ever else they disagreed, they were both professedly earnest
supporters of the Church of England.      It is related of Morris
                               "
that he made the suggestion      that the Venerable Society for

Propagating the Gospel in Foreign Parts should see to it that
only Churchmen should be sent as Governors of the Colonies;
and that no person should be competent to receive a consider-
able benefice in England who had not performed three years
                                                                "
of missionary service in America."     (See Webster's               History,"
page 8 1.) His zeal for Episcopacy must, however, have greatly
abated before his death, for in his last Will and Testament, a
                                                   "
remarkable document, these words occur         :       I   forbid   .   .   .
                                                                                any
                THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                                   ,3

man   to   be paid for preaching      a funeral sermon over me.
Those who survive me will commend or blame my conduct in
life as they think fit, and I am not for
                                         paying any man for doing
either; but if any man, whether Churchman or Dissenter, in
or not in priest's orders, is inclined to say anything on that oc-
casion, he may, if   my executors see   fit   to admit him to do it."
  In view of these passages, it can occasion no surprise that
he refused to give a charter to an institution to be erected and
controlled by a body of Presbyterians, with a special reference
to the training of young men for the holy ministry.
  But whatever were his errors or feelings, it is due to him to
say, that in the course of his long public career of more than
fifty years, and embracing within its limits the entire period
from the formation of the first Presbytery to the schism of 1745,
he rendered several very important services to New Jersey, and
indirectly to the interests of religion, learning, and civil liberty.
He probably did more than any other one man towards effect-
ing the overthrow of the Proprietary Government in the eastern
and western divisions of the Province, and the consequent union
of these two divisions under the sole jurisdiction of the Crown.
He was also instrumental in securing for New Jersey a Governor
separate from the Governor of New York.         The first of these
measures contributed greatly to the prosperity of the whole
Province; and without it the College of New Jersey, in all
probability, would never have been established upon its present
basis.  There might have been an East Jersey College, but not
a College of New Jersey.      And had the Colonial governments
of New York and New Jersey continued under one head, there
is reason to believe, as has already been said, that no corporate

privileges would have been granted to any body of Dissenters,
as all persons who were not of the Church of England were
then wont to be called. And in this matter the friends of that
Church were in all probability no more unreasonable than the
Dissenters themselves would have been, had their respective
conditions been reversed.      It was reserved for those not con-

nected with established churches to be liberal-minded, and
regardful of the rights of others.
  In a matter of controversy between the Presbyterians and
44       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

Episcopalians of Jamaica, brought before him when he was
Chief Justice of New York, he did not permit his preference for
the Church of England to influence his decisions, but acted the
part of an independent and upright judge.
     Another thing for which Governor Morris is to be greatly
commended was his earnest opposition to the tyrannical meas-
ures of Governor Cornbury;           also for his persistent and suc-
cessful efforts to have his     Lordship removed from an office for
which he was utterly unfit.
  Governor Morris died in May, 1746, and upon his death the
government again devolved upon John Hamilton, Esq., Presi-
dent of the Council.   He was the son of Andrew Hamilton,
Governor  of East  and of West Jersey, under the Proprietors,
from 1692 to 1702, and for some years also Deputy-Governor
of Pennsylvania. Andrew Hamilton was a native of Scotland,
and removed with his family to this country in 1686. Both
father and son were intelligent and liberal-minded men, and

popular Governors. The first and for many years the only laws
for the establishing and supporting of public schools in East

Jersey were passed while Andrew Hamilton was Governor of
the Province.   For some years before the surrender of the
government   he  was Postmaster-General for the Provinces of
New Jersey and Pennsylvania. (See " East Jersey under the
Proprietary Governments," page 229.)
  When, in 1746, John Hamilton assumed a second time the
administration of affairs, as President of the Council and Com-
mander-in-Chief, the petitioners for a college charter renewed
their request, and prepared the form of a charter which they
desired to have granted to them.  It was granted, and thus the

way was prepared for laying the foundations of the College of
New Jersey.
     It is worthy of notice   that this is the first college charter ever

granted in this country by a Governor, or acting Governor, with
simply the consent of his Council. That of Harvard was granted
by the General Court of Massachusetts Bay, with the consent of
the Governor; that of Yale, by the General Assembly of Con-
necticut; that of William and Mary, by their Majesties of those
names.
                 THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                                     ^~

  The first Legislative Assembly ever convened in America
was that of Virginia, in 1619, and the first attempt to establish
a college in this country was made by this Assembly.        And
although nothing resulted from their action, for the erection
and support of a college, it is nevertheless highly creditable to
their discernment and good sense, that the members of this

body should have directed their attention to a matter of this
kind at the very beginning of their legislative career, and almost
at the very foundation of their colony.
    Mr. Hamilton was the first Governor who ventured to act in
a matter of this kind without previously obtaining either the
consent of the Provincial Legislature or the special permission
of his Majesty's Home Government.   Governor Belcher fol-
lowed the example set him by Mr. Hamilton, and at a later
period Governor Franklin did the same, in granting to sundry
ministers and laymen of the Dutch Reformed Church a charter
for Queen's College, now Rutgers.      Governor Bernard, the
successor of Governor Belcher, and afterwards Governor of Mas-
sachusetts, claimed the right, as the representative of the King,
to grant charters for schools and colleges without any action
on the part of the Assembly or of the General Court and a char-
                                                         ;



ter for the erection of a college, or collegiate school, in      Hamp-
shire County, Massachusetts, was actually prepared and signed

by him   :   but in consequence of an earnest remonstrance from
the Overseers of Harvard the Governor did not issue the char-
ter.  His right to grant such a charter was questioned by
the Overseers, although in their representations to the Governor
they did not press this point.       Some few at least were of the
opinion, and in private gave     utterance  to it, that, in the charter

given to the Province  itself,  the King   had  relinquished his own
right to interfere in such     matters.   (See President Quincy's
"
    History of Harvard," vol. ii. pp. 477-479.)
     In 1754, Lieutenant-Governor De Lancey, then administering
the government of New York, with the consent of the Council,
gave to King's College a charter, which was afterwards con-
firmed by a vote of the Assembly of that Province. This ap-
proval by the Assembly was probably obtained by the Trustees
of the College in consequence of the objections              made to its
46
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

establishment under a charter given by the acting Governor, in
the name of the King, and in order to remove all doubts as to
the validity of the charter to which these objections may have
given rise.
     The Proprietaries of Pennsylvania and Delaware claimed and
exercised the right to grant charters for academies and colleges.
  The prerogative of the King in this matter was sedulously
maintained; and it was never in any case openly called into
question but there was no little diversity of opinion as to
              :
                                                             the

respective rights of Governors and of Assemblies in reference to

the granting of charters.
     Joseph Dudley, who was Governor of Massachusetts from
1703 to 1715, has been highly commended, and very justly, for
his boldness in consenting to a resolution to revive the charter

given to Harvard in 1650 by the General Court of that Province,
and " thus establishing a charter without, and contrary to, the
will of the British sovereign," and that after the consent of the

Crown had been withheld from several successive charters
granted by the provincial authorities between the years 1692
and 1701. The resolution referred to was passed by the Council
and by the House of Representatives in December, 1707, and
it is     believed that it was suggested as well as officially approved
                                         "
by him.   (See President Quincy's    History," pages 159-161.)
  John  Hamilton,  the acting Governor of New Jersey in 1746,
should be held in no less honor, at least by the College of New
Jersey, for his wise and liberal treatment of the founders
                                                           of this

College, in granting to them a charter with ample privileges,
and that too in the absence of all precedent in matters of this
kind, and with the full knowledge of the fact that his prede-
cessor in office had refused to give them such a charter.   His
liberality is the more conspicuous from the fact  that the peti-
tioners for the charter were Presbyterians, and that he himself
was a Churchman.
   Just at this time there were in the condition of the civil
affairsof the Province several things very favorable to the suc-
cess of those who were anxious to obtain a charter for their

projected institution      :




     I.    The acting Governor was a man of enlightened views, and
                 THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.                    ^
friendly to the interests of religion   and learning; a member
of the Episcopal Church, but not unmindful of the rights of
those who were members of other Christian churches.
  2.   Several members of the Council were Presbyterians: for
instance, John Reading, the next senior Councillor to President
Hamilton, and his immediate successor as President of the
Council; James Hude, a native of Scotland, and the son of a
Presbyterian elder who emigrated to this country to escape
persecution in his own and Thomas Leonard, of Princeton.
                           ;



Andrew Johnston, another member of the Council, was an
Episcopalian, a gentleman of liberal views, and cordially in
favor of the proposed scheme for the erecting of a college.
His father, Dr. Johnston, was bail for the Rev. Francis Makemie
when he was arrested, imprisoned, and prosecuted by order of
Lord Cornbury.        Dr. Johnston was a native of Scotland, and
came to America in 1685.     His son Andrew was born in 1694.
These four gentlemen, Messrs. Reading, Hude, Leonard, and
Johnston, were all named as Trustees of the College in the
second charter given, in 1748, by Governor Belcher. James
Alexander, Esq., a native of Scotland, and an eminent lawyer
in New York, was also a member of the Council, and, from a
liberal gift made by him to the College a few years after, there
is good reason to believe that he too was favorable to the wishes

of the petitioners.
  3.   In East Jersey, where most of the petitioners for a college
charter resided, the people were divided into two parties, which
were known as the Scotch and the English. This distinction
had existed for a long time. In a letter of the date of June
16, 1703, addressed to the Lords of Trade by Colonel Quarry,
who held at one time the position of a member of Council in
            Provinces, and who was Judge of the Admiralty
five different

Court in New York and also in Pennsylvania, the writer says,
"The contest in West Jersey was always between the Quakers
and those who were not Quakers; in East Jersey between the
Scotch and the English, the Scotch for many years had the
advantage of having a Scotch Governor, Colonel [Andrew]
Hamilton." The Presbyterian churches in this country all
                                           the Church of Scot-
adopted the Doctrine and the Discipline of
4g             HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

land      ;
              and the Presbyterian Church           in   New York City was
known as the Scotch Church.                This in a measure may account
for the interest taken in the plan for a Presbyterian college,
both by President Hamilton and Mr. Johnston. They doubt-
less thought that in this land the adherents of the Church of
Scotland were entitled to equal favors and privileges with the
adherents of the          Church of England.             And in the case of
President Hamilton, the fact that the partisans of the English
faction had for a time deprived his father of his office as Gov-

ernor, on theground that he was a Scotchman and not an
Englishman, and the refusal to grant the Scotch Church in
New York their petition for a charter, no doubt rendered him
all   the       more disposed to grant to Presbyterians those privi-
leges for which they could rightfully ask, and which he could
lawfully bestow.*
     4.       The relations between Governor Morris, who had refused
to give the sought-for college charter, and President Hamilton,
who did give it, were not of the most pleasant kind. Upon his
return from England, and before he received his commission as
Governor, Morris demanded of Hamilton that he should sur-
render to him the seals of the Province, which Hamilton refused
to do, on the ground that Morris had forfeited his right to ad-
minister the government by his absence from the country; and
in this        Hamilton was sustained by the Home Government.                      A
year or two after, when Morris received his Majesty's commis-
sion, he declared         it   to be his purpose to regard all previous
difficulties as       bygones    ;
                                     and yet he claimed from Hamilton all
the moneys which Hamilton had received for discharging the
duties of Governor, on the ground that he, and not Hamilton,
was the legal President of the Council during that time. More-
over, although Mr. Hamilton was the second Judge of the
Supreme Court of the Province, Governor Morris made his

  * Another instance of this national
                                         feeling is to be seen in the conduct of Lieu-
tenant-Governor Gooch, of Virginia.      Sundry gentlemen were brought before him,
in 1742, for attending unauthorized religious meetings.    As soon as he learned
that they held to the doctrinal views    and the system of church order set forth in
the Westminster Confession of Faith, he said that these gentlemen " were Presbyte-
rians according to the Kirk of Scotland, and could not be molested."
                   THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                                                  ^
son, Robert Hunter Morris, Chief Justice, who, as compared
with Mr. Hamilton, was a mere youth and the letter of Gov-
                                                     ;




ernor Morris to the Board of Trade, which informed the Board
that he had made his own son Chief Justice, also made mention
of Mr. Hamilton's resignation as Judge.
  In an attack made in 1755 upon the petitioners for the Col-

lege charter, which passed the seal of the Province in 1746
attested     by President Hamilton, it is asserted that he was in-
competent, from age and infirmity, to discharge properly the
duties of Governor, and that the petitioners availed themselves
of his infirm health to obtain from him a charter, which, had he
been in the full possession of his faculties, he would never have
granted.   The paper containing this assault affords evidence
that the information of the writer was probably derived, either

directly or indirectly, from Chief-Justice R. H. Morris. That
this gentleman was no friend to the College appears from an
expression in a letter of Governor Belcher's, of the date of Jan-
uary 8, 1749-50, to Mr. Walley, of London, in which the Gov-
                                                              "
ernor, alluding to the Chief Justice, speaks of                   the malevolence
of a young gentleman, lately gone from                   New Jersey, towards
the Province and the College."
  The statement made by the writer of the paper to which
reference is here made is as follows (taken from the supple-

ment to the " New York Mercury" of July 28, 1755, No. 155):

  " I have been curious
                          enough to inquire what methods were taken to obtain this
charter, and, by the best information I can get, was told that it was done in a public
manner, by petition, and passed the seal in same legal manner that other grants of
the King do.   The reasons of my being so particular in my inquiries of this kind
were, that I would endeavor to compare the legality of one grant with the legality
of another of the same nature.  What I mean is, the grant of the charter of the
College of   New Jersey. There the Presbyterians, Independents, and the New
                                                      all of a kidney, I am told
Lights, for I speak of them as one body, and they are
made their application to the late Governor Morris for a charter. He told them
                                      He soon after dying, the Government de-
that he could not grant such a charter.
volved upon the Honorable John Hamilton, Esq., whose age and infirmity had ren-
dered him unequal to the task. This they thought the proper time to get what
                                                           the charter was laid
they wanted accordingly they applied again, and a draft of
              ;


before Mr. Hamilton in Council and the petitioners were ordered to lay a draft
                                   ;


of it before the Chief Justice of the Province for his opinion, whether it was legal
to grant it or not; but they, well convinced of the illegality of it before the
$O
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

Chief Justice had time to give his opinion, prepared an engrossed draft on parch-
ment, and got the Governor (by the help of some about him), whom they had
properly prepared on the occasion, to pass the charter, at a time when he was
unable to read, and scarcely able to sign his name.
  "
    Now, as I am no lawyer, I would beg leave to ask, whether an instance can be
found in the law books that a petition to his Majesty for any grant or charter, and
that petition referred to the Attorney- or Solicitor-General, or to the Judges, for
their opinion, whether he ought to grant the prayer or petition, any grant or charter
was ever granted by the King before such opinion was given. I have been in-
formed that some of those gentlemen (whose cunning and deceit equal the society
founded by Loyola), because the Judge did not give his opinion, that the charter
laid before them was legal, for that reason when he afterward went to England,

they represented him there as an Atheist, a man of no religion for the great mis-
                                                                   ;


fortune of most of these people is, that a man has no religion, in their opinion,
if   he be not possessed of as much cant, hypocrisy, and enthusiasm as themselves.
Yet this College has a Presbyterian or Independent President [Mr. Burr], and is a
most excellent institution, under the sole inspection and direction of the Watch-
                                                                             '




Tower'; and because that of New York [King's College, now Columbia] is not
under their sole direction, it is a most scandalous, pitiful, paltry institution."


  The " Watch-Tower" is the title of a series of papers pub-
              "
lished in the   New York Gazette" in 1754 and 1755. The
entire series was edited, and many, if not the greater part, of
the articles were written, by Wm. Livingston, Esq., an eminent
lawyer of New York, and subsequently Governor of New Jer-
sey, being the first Governor after the Declaration of Inde-
pendence.          The preface to No. XL. of the " Watch-Tower" is
avowedly written by the editor but the paper itself professes
                                             ;



to be a letter from a gentleman in the country to his friend in
the city, and it contains a reply to some of the statements in
the supplement cited above it is as follows
                                        :                    :




     "    The reflections that have been frequently cast on the College of New
    Sir,

Jersey by the enemies of the Watch-Tower' are so perfectly groundless, and appear
                              '




so evidently the effects of envy and impotent malice, that I have ever thought them

unworthy of the least notice, and I should with the same neglect have treated the
spiteful performance which appeared in the Supplement of the      Mercury,' num-
                                                                       '




ber 155, had you not judged a few remarks on some points of it necessary for the
satisfaction of the Public.
  " The
         present Constitution of the College has no dependence upon the Charter
obtained from Governor Hamilton, nor indeed any relation to it, as that by which
it is    now established is in sundry respects different; the majority of the Trustees
being also different persons.
  " That Governor Morris
                             [Robert Hunter Morris, who at this time was Deputy-
Governor of Pennsylvania as well as Chief Justice of New Jersey] was misrepre-
                         THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                                                           ^
sented at Home [in England], is to me entirely new, and has not, I am
                                                                                  persuaded,
the least foundation in Truth.         The Trustees of the College of New Jersey are
disposed to treat that Gentleman with all suitable respect, and none have the least
inclination to enter into a Dispute with him.   But if he requests it, a particular
account of the manner in which the first charter was obtained shall be
                                                                        published,
together with a full and candid Disquisition of      Accusation he
                                                      any               be  may        pleased
to bring.       Till this happens, no notice shall be taken of
                                                                 any ill-natured Reflections
made by a Person totally ignorant of his subject, and who will not, I am confident,
receive any thanks from the Governor for introducing his name into a
                                                                       controversy
with which he had no connexion. The story, as represented from hearsay, as the
author himself -confesses, is grossly and notoriously false, and that almost in
                                                                                every
circumstance, as can be made to appear by sufficient evidence.
  " Whether the Charter obtained from Governor Hamilton
                                                                in his declining state
was a valid one, I am not able to determine. The contrary, however, has always
appeared to      me
               most probable, and that it was therefore wisely resigned though,    ;


indeed, the Episcopal Church in Newark is established by a charter obtained of
the same gentleman and in the same circumstances, the validity of which I have
not heard called in question.
  " It is well known that the
                                 College at present is established by a Charter, with
its   usual formalities, from Governor Belcher, with the full consent of his Council,
on the petition of several public-spirited gentlemen, who have with great pains and
Industry laid a Foundation for a liberal education of Youth in a Province where it
was evidently wanted, and in which no undertaking of like nature had ever been
attempted.
  " And
          though it must be confessed that the majority of the Trustees thereby in-
corporated were professed Presbyterians, yet it is worth remarking that his Excel-
lency at the same time generously offered to grant a charter, with equal Privileges,
to any Gentlemen of the Episcopal Persuasion who should be willing to embark in
the like noble design.
      " The
              present Charter exhibits a most Catholic Plan, and contains no exclusive
clauses to deprive persons of any Christian denomination (except Papists) either
from its Government or any of its Privileges."                  Signed T. T.

      If the remark in the last sentence be                 understood as implying
that Papists were excluded from any of the privileges of the

College, it will make a wrong impression.  No such words,
"
  except Papists," occur in the charter.   It is expressly set
                                                "
forth, as one reason for granting the  charter,   that the said

petitioners           have expressed their earnest desire that those of
every religious denomination may have equal liberty and ad-
vantages of education, any different sentiments in religion not-
withstanding^ It is true that the Trustees none others were
required to take certain oaths for the security of his Majesty's
person and government, and respecting the succession of the
             "
Crown, which Popish recusants" could not or would not take,
$2
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

and on that account could not be Trustees of the College. Upon
the establishment of American Independence these oaths were
no longer required.
   There is one matter in this letter in defence of the College
to which exception will be taken when the two charters shall
come more distinctly under consideration but on the whole
                                                  ;



we regard it as a dispassionate and satisfactory reply to the
charges made against the petitioners for the first charter, and
as exposing the ignorance as well as the malevolence of their
assailant.   The object of the writer of this vindication was
rather to defend the College as it was at the time he wrote,
viz.,   in   1755, than to defend the charter given      by President
Hamilton or the conduct of those concerned             in soliciting   it.

He does indeed say that the account given of the whole matter
"
    is grossly   and notoriously false and that almost in every circum-
                                      ,




stance, as can be viade to appear by sufficient evidence T
  He might have added that it was obviously contradictory
and absurd. The writer of the supplement admits that the
                       "
charter was obtained     in a public manner, by petition, and

passed the seal in the same  legal manner that other grants of
the King do," and, further, "that a draft of the charter was laid
before Mr. Hamilton in Council!'    Had age and infirmity ren-
dered the other members of the Council, as well as the Presi-
dent, unequal to the task devolved upon them ?   Without the
consent of the Council, Mr. Hamilton could not have given the
petitioners a charter, if he had been disposed to do so. It is
clearly implied, in the charges under consideration, that almost
immediately  after the death of Governor Morris the petitioners
applied to Governor Hamilton, in Council.      Governor Morris
died on the 2 1st of May, 1746; the charter was given five
months after, viz., on the 22d of October of the same year.
Surely there was no hot haste in this thing, especially as the
labor of maturing the plan had all been done by the parties
seeking the charter.        It is   hardly to be supposed that a Chief
Justice of the  acknowledged ability of Chief-Justice R. H.
Morris would require several months to determine whether the
granting of the charter would be illegal, when, according to
                                                        "
the writer of the supplement, the petitioners themselves were
                THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                               ^
well convinced of its illegality."   With his well-known hostility
to the granting of a charter, if such an inquiry was ever made
of him, it cannot be uncharitable to suppose that he wilfully
deferred making his response as to the legality of the proposed

grant until President Hamilton and the Council, as well as the
petitioners, were annoyed by the delay and determined to wait
no longer. And it is by no means improbable that the writer
                    "
of No. XL. of the Watch-Tower" had allusion to something
                                        "
of this kind when he made the remark,     But if he [Chief-Justice
R. H. Morris] requests it, a particular account of the manner in
which the first charter was obtained shall be published, together
with a full and candid Disquisition of any Accusation lie may
be pleased to bring." In these words there is an evident inti-
mation that in the conduct of the Chief Justice relative to the
charter there were things that would not redound to his credit.
   While making the intimation just mentioned, the writer of
No. XL. of the "Watch-Tower" says nothing respecting the
statement made by the writer of the supplement, that the peti-
tioners "were ordered to lay a copy of the charter before the
Chief Justice for his opinion, whether it was legal to grant it or
not." Although, possibly for some unexplained reason, this may
have been so, yet it is far more probable that the Chief Justice,
being a member of the Council, requested that all action in re-
gard to the charter might be deferred until he could carefully
examine its provisions and satisfy himself as to the propriety of
his giving his consent, as a member of the Council, to the prayer
of the petitioners.   Beyond all question, the usual course in
regard to all important grants was to refer them to the Attorney-
General of the Province for his opinion as to the legality of the
grants therein contained. The Attorney- General at this time
was J. Warrell, Esq., the same gentleman who, upon the grant-
ing of the charter of 1748 by Governor Belcher, signed the fol-
                                                         "
                                                           I have
lowing declaration at the close of the charter   :
                                                 [L. s.]

perused  and  considered  the written charter, and  find nothing

contained therein inconsistent with his Majesty's interest or the
honor of the Crown."
     On the charter given in July, 1718, to the Episcopal Church
in   Perth Amboy, by Governor Hunter, there is a like declara-
54
        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

tion, signed  by Thomas Gordon, the Attorney-General at that
time.    But whatever may be the precise facts in the case of the
first charter of the College, whether it was referred to the Chief

Justice or the Attorney-General, one thing is certain, that the
petitioners for a college were under no obligation to the Chief
Justice for any favor extended to them by him.
   Although President Plamilton was in feeble health during the
time he administered the government, from May 21, 1746, to
June 17, 1747, when he died, he appears to have attended per-
sonally to the duties of his office until the latter part of Decem-
ber; and the first official information we have that his health
prevented his corresponding with the Home Government is con-
tained in a letter written at his request by Messrs. James Alex-
ander and R. Hunter Morris to the Board of Trade.        The date
of this letter is the 24th of December, 1746, two months after
the College charter had passed the seal of the Province.
  The two gentlemen here named were members of the Council.
In any record of what Mr. Hamilton did at this time there is no
evidence of an infirm state of mind.  His consenting to grant
the petition for a college charter is in full accord with what
would have been expected of him in his best days.

  The above sketch shows what was the           condition of   civil

affairs in the   Province of New Jersey, and also the state of the
Presbyterian Church in the country at large, so far as they had
any bearing, either directly or indirectly, upon the erection of
the College of New Jersey. It also shows who were the parties

engaged in accomplishing this important work, and that the
College owes its origin to the need felt by them of more ample
provision than any at that time within convenient reach, for the
thorough training of candidates for the holy ministry, in both
their preparatory and professional studies. But in the erection
of this College its founders did not limit their views simply to
the educating of candidates for the ministry.   It was also their

aim to make full provision for the instruction of all classes of
youth who might desire to obtain a liberal education and be
disposed to avail themselves of the advantages furnished by
such a seminary of learning.
                      THE ORIGIN OF TH.E COLLEGE.
                                                                                 ^
   With the modes of conveyance then                      in   use,   Harvard and
Yale, the only Colleges in New England, were too remote for
the convenience of youth residing in the middle Provinces.
The stand taken by the authorities of these Colleges in opposi-
tion to the extravagances which in not a few instances attended
the great religious awakening of that period, and seemingly to
the awakening itself, alienated from them more or less some of
the best and most moderate    men in the Presbyterian Church.
Suspicions, not fully warranted by the facts of the case, were
beginning to find vent that they were tinctured with Armin-
ianism, and were tending to even greater departures from the
thorough Calvinism of their founders and early friends.*
  It has been said that the College owes its origin to the ex-

pulsion of David Brainerd, the celebrated missionary, from Yale
College, and to the refusal of the Presidentf and Trustees to
admit him to the first degree in the Arts at the same time with
the members of his class.              The following extract is taken from
                        "
Dr. D. D. Field's           Genealogy of the Brainerd Family," page 265            :




  " It is clear                     Rev. Jonathan Edwards was not satisfied with the
                  enough that the
refusal of a degree to David Brainerd by the Faculty and Trustees of Yale College,
after all his readiness to confess his faults, and to confess them
                                                             openly and fully.
Others in New England sympathized with him, and others at a distance. Among
the former were the Rev. Moses Dickinson, pastor of the church in Norvvalk, Con-

necticut;   among the latter, the Rev. Jonathan Dickinson, pastor of the church in
Elizabethtown, New Jersey, and the Rev. Aaron Burr, pastor of the church in
Newark, who pleaded for Brainerd before the authorities of Yale College in behalf
of the Society for the Propagation of Christian Knowledge in Foreign Parts, which
had appointed him their missionary.
  "And now I will state a fact that may not be known to very many that will read

  * See Governor Belcher's letter of the
                                          3ist of May, 1748, to the Rev. Jonathan
                                        "
Edwards, and also President Quincy's History of Harvard University," vol. ii.
pp. 52 and 67.
  f It is to be regretted that a man of the eminent ability and piety of President
Clap should not have discriminated more nicely between what was genuine and
what was false in the great religious awakening of his day, and that he should have
treated with marked severity any of his pupils whose strong religious feelings may
have betrayed them into the use of unguarded language or into a disregard of col-
lege rules. For his inflexible adherence to what he deemed to be his duty, in
those times of high excitement in matters of religion, he is to be held in honor and
esteem.     There is abundant evidence that he was sound in doctrine, and a faithful
servant of Christ.
56
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

this book.  I once heard the Hon. John Dickinson, Chief Judge of the Middlesex

County Court, Connecticut, and son of the Rev. Mr. Dickinson, of Norwalk, say
that the establishment of Princeton College was owing to the sympathy felt for
David Brainerd, because the authorities of Yale College would not give him his
degree, and that the plan of the College was drawn in his father's house.
  "
    Perhaps I have not given every word as he uttered the declaration. But          .   .   .




I am certain that I have declared the precise fact that Judge Dickinson uttered.

There is evidence that the Rev. Aaron Burr said, after the rise of Princeton Col-
lege, that it would never have come into existence had it not been for the expulsion
of David Brainerd from Yale College.    It is   a significant fact, that three of the men
most conspicuous in their sympathy and efforts for Brainerd were the first three
Presidents of that College,    Jonathan Dickinson, Aaron Burr, and Jonathan
Edwards."

   The evidence here referred to respecting Mr. Burr's declara-
tion,   is   probably that given       in Dr. A. Alexander's             work, en-
titled "TheLog College," page                   127, in these       words: "Some
years ago the writer heard the relict of the late Dr. Scott, of
New Brunswick, say, that when she was a little girl, she heard
the Rev. Mr. Burr declare in her father's house in Newark, if
it had not been for the treatment received by Mr. Brainerd at

Yale, New Jersey College would never have been erected."
  Mrs. Scott was a Miss Crane, daughter of Mr. Elihu Crane,
of Newark, and a step-daughter of President Dickinson.
   These statements were given from memory long after they
were uttered; and if they be in every particular strictly accu-
rate, it does not follow that the College of New Jersey owes its
existence to the treatment which Brainerd received from the
authorities of Yale College.            The originators of the plan for
the erection of a college in          New Jersey may have needed the
stimulus, which that occurrence gave them, to mature, without
further delay, their plan for a seminary of learning, which for
several years they had deemed necessary to the proper training
of candidates for the ministry in their branch of the Church,
and for the liberal education of youths designed for other em-
ployments; and it may have been that without this additional
incitement their plan for such an institution would not have
been perfected at that time, nor the requisite steps taken to
secure a charter, which in those days was deemed essential to
the establishment of a college, or at least to the conferring of
literary degrees.
                   THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE,
                                                                           ry

  It has also been said that the Log College was the germ of

the College of New Jersey, and Whitefield somewhere speaks
of the Neshaminy school as having grown into a large college,
now erecting in the Jerseys.*               But we cannot see the matter
in this light.  For, as shown in the preceding narrative, the
friends and patrons of the Neshaminy school stood aloof when
the College of New Jersey was first established.                With no more
propriety, therefore, canwe look to the Log College to dis-
cover the origin of the College of New Jersey than we can to
the head- waters of the           Neshaminy to ascertain the fountain-
head of the Delaware, of which river the Neshaminy is but a
branch and a tributary.
  After the College was in operation, and when it was pro-
posed to enlarge the institution, and to obtain a new charter,
the friends of the Log College came into the measure, and
became earnest and most efficient friends of the enterprise, and
contributed very largely to its success.
  In New England the College of New Jersey had many well-
wishers, and prominent   among these Jonathan Edwards and
Moses Dickinson. There is also reason to believe that some
of the more extravagant among the Revivalists in New Eng-
land, after they had seen and renounced their errors, took an
interest in the institution designed to promote fervent piety and
sound learning, and to be the advocate of such genuine works
of grace as were often witnessed in the revivals of those times.
In this class may be placed James Davenport and Timothy
Allen, men of talent, learning, and piety, yet for a time erratic
and even fanatical, but afterwards sober-minded and desirous to
repair the evils of their wild and unwarrantable courses. With
the aid of some friends, they erected, in New London, Connecti-
                                                "
cut, an institution called          by them
                                      The Shepherd's Tent," to
educate men of the right stamp for the ministry.  They were led
to do this in consequence of the opposition of Harvard and Yale
to their teaching and measures, and also on account of the severe
treatment which Mr. Davenport received at the hands of both
the civil and Church authorities of Connecticut.                By prohibiting

              * Dr. Stearns's
                                History of the First Church of Newark.
    VOL. I.   5
58
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY,

the establishment of seminaries by private persons, the Legis-
lature of Connecticut compelled the friends of this school to
remove it to Rhode Island, where it lingered for a time, and
was given up.
                         "
  Mention is made of the Shepherd's Tent" by the Synod of
Philadelphia in their letter of the 3<Dth of May, 1746, to Presi-
dent Clap, of Yale College,* and, from the manner in which it
isspoken of, it is evident that the Synod had about the same
opinion of it which they had entertained of Mr. Tennent's
school. They assure the President that they will be shy of the
proposals of the New York Synod for a friendly correspond-
     "
ence till they show us in what way they intend to have their
youth educated for the ministry, and be as ready to discourage
all   such methods of bringing all good learning into contempt,
                                "
as the
          '

         Shepherd's Tent.'   The Synod of Philadelphia knew
full well that Mr. Dickinson and his friends of the New York

Presbytery were as earnestly in favor of a thorough education
of candidates for the ministry as they themselves were but the  ;




Synod also knew that the majority of the Synod of New York
were not so and they were apprehensive that if the Synod of
              ;



New York took order in regard to the erection of a school or
college, it would be of the character and standing of the Log
College, or of the Shepherd's Tent.       The language of the
        of              makes it evident that the Synod was not
Synod      Philadelphia
aware that even before this time the leading members of the
Presbytery of New York had sought to obtain a charter for a
college.
      Between the supporters of the Shepherd's Tent and the pe-
titioners for authority to erect a college in           New Jersey there
was not at that time a full accord in doctrine, and there was
but little, if any, sympathy. The principal of the Tent and
several other ministers of like mind united in controverting the
                                                                    "
views of President Dickinson, as set forth in his dialogue              On
the Display of Divine Grace," and in condemning him, for teach-
ing what they then regarded as an inexcusable error, viz., that
the proof of our justification is to be found in the evidence of


                  * See the
                              printed minutes of the Synod.
                     THE ORIGIN OF THE COLLEGE.
                                                                                qg

our sanctification.                          "
                           (See Webster's        Church History," page 584.)
But, as intimated above, Messrs. Allen and  Davenport changed
their views  and openly renounced their errors in doctrine and
in practice, and subsequently connected themselves with the

Presbyterian Church.    For some years they resided in New
Jersey, and labored here in the ministry, and were members of
the Presbytery of New Brunswick.*   The Rev. Timothy Symes,
one of the ministers who had united with Allen in condemning
the work of President Dickinson, settled in East Jersey in 1746,
and became a member of the Presbytery of New York. As
they had become Presbyterians, and had settled within the
bounds of a Synod the members of which were now all earn-
estly united in favor of the then only Presbyterian college in the
land, they too could not fail to give it their best wishes.
   The union of the Synods of New York and of Philadelphia, in
1757, served to promote a friendly feeling towards the College
on the part of sundry ministers of the Philadelphia Synod; and
in the autumn of 1766 a proposition from a number of gentle-
men in Philadelphia and Lewistown, Pennsylvania, was made to
the Trustees, that the Faculty of the College should be further
enlarged by the appointment of several professors, to be chosen
without respect to former divisions or parties in the Church,
with the promise of pecuniary aid in case their proposal should
be accepted.
  It was found that this arrangement could not be carried into

effect.    Still,   a friendly feeling was promoted.
   Thus from the different sources here enumerated, and from
others less prominent, including several academies, there were
raised up friends for the new College, who all contributed more
or less to its prosperity.         But for its first establishment, as will
be more fully shown, the College was indebted, under God, to
Jonathan Dickinson, John Pierson, Ebenezer Pemberton, Aaron
Burr, and their immediate friends and helpers. They engaged
with earnestness in this undertaking, because they knew and
felt the   need of just such an institution to train for the Church

  * See article
                  Davenport, in Sprague's Annals of the American Pulpit,
                                                                         vol.   iii.


page 90.
6       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

a pious and learned ministry, and for the other learned profes-
sions a body of intelligent and godly men.

    May the time be far distant, or, rather, may it never arrive,
when this College shall be an "institution devoted exclusively
[or even mainly] to the advancement of science or general liter-
ature"!  On the contrary, may it ever be regarded as an insti-
tution consecrated to the service of     God for the defence of
revealed truth and for the promotion of fervent piety and sound
learning   !
                       CHAPTER II.
THE DESIGN OF THE COLLEGE, AND ITS RELATIONS TO THE
               CHURCH AND THE STATE.

  IN tracing the origin of the College, its design was almost
necessarily brought into view but not so fully as the impor-
                                ;



tance of that design demands.
  The chief aim of the founders and early friends of the College
was to furnish the Church, and more especially their own branch
of it, with a pious and learned ministry. But this was not their
only aim. It was a part of their plan to provide liberally for
the proper intellectual and religious culture of all classes of
youths who might be disposed to avail themselves of the facili-
ties afforded by this institution for such culture.

   The Trustees under the second charter were in full accord
with those under the first, and all had one object in view.    Mr.
Burr, the first President under the second charter, was Mr. Dick-
inson's successor under \hzjirst charter; and it is highly prob-
able thatall the surviving Trustees of the first charter were

Trustees under the charter given by Governor Belcher two
years        The correspondence of the Governor furnishes
         after.

complete evidence that he and the early friends of the College
were all of one mind as to the objects to be attained through
the instrumentality of the College, which was already in opera-
tion when he entered    upon the administration of public affairs
                                                     "
in   New Jersey,   In offering to give the College a new and
better charter," it was not his aim to change the character of the

College, but only to enable it the   more readily and effectually
to accomplish the design of its founders.
     The view here given of this design is fully established by
the following extracts from the minutes of the Trustees, and
from the minutes of the Synod of New York. At a meeting
                                                          61
62            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

of the Board, held October 13, 1748, after accepting the char-
ter offered them by Governor Belcher, the Trustees voted to
                                                                   "
present an address to the Governor, and to thank his Excel-
lency for the grant of the charter." The further record of this
matter is as follows            :




     " An address
                  being drawn up by the Rev. Mr. Burr, was read and approved.
     "
       Ordered, That the Rev. Mr. Cowell wait upon his Excellency and present the
address to him.
  "
    Ordered, That a copy of the address be taken by the Clerk and inserted in the
minutes.
                              " To His
                                       Excellency
                                "JONATHAN BELCHER, ESQ.,
"
     Captain- General and Governor-in-Chief of the Province of New Jersey and ter-
         ritories thereon depending in America, and Vice-Admiral of the same         :



         " The   Humble Address of the Trustees of the College of New Jersey.
"
     May it please your Excellency,
     "   We have adored the wise and gracious Providence which has placed your
Excellency in the chief seat of government in this Province, and have taken our
parts with multitudes in congratulating New Jersey upon that occasion.
   " Your
          long known and well approved friendship to religion and learning left
us no room to doubt your doing all that lay in your power to promote so valuable
a cause in these parts, and upon this head our most raised expectations have been

abundantly answered. We do, therefore, cheerfully embrace this opportunity of
paying our most grateful and sincere acknowledgments to your Excellency for
granting so ample and well-contrived a charter for erecting a seminary of learning
in this Province, which has been so much wanted and so long desired.
     "And as it has pleased your Excellency to intrust us with so important a charge,
it   shall be our study and care to    approve ourselves worthy of the great confidence
you have placed in us, by doing our utmost to promote so noble a design.
  " And since we have
                         your Excellency to direct and assist us in this important
and difficult undertaking, we shall engage in it with the more freedom and cheer-
fulness; not doubting but by the smiles of          Heaven, under your protection, it may
prove a flourishing seminary of piety and good literature ; and continue not only
a perpetual monument of honor to your name, above the victories and triumphs of
renowned conquerors, but a lasting foundation for the future prosperity of Church
and State.
     " That                                         a blessing to this Province, an ornament
              your Excellency may long live,
and support to our infant college,           that you may see your generous designs for the

public good take their desired effect, and at last receive a crown of glory that
fadeth not away, is and shall be our constant prayer.
  "
    By order of the Trustees.
                                                   " THOMAS
     " NEW
                                                                       ARTHUR,
                                                                      Cl. Cor.
             BRUNSWICK, October 13, 1748."

      To which his Excellency was pleased to return the following
answer:
                THE DESIGN OF THE COLLEGE, ETC.
                                                                                         5^
"GENTLEMEN:
  " I have this day received by one of
                                       your members, the Rev. Mr. Cowell, your
kind and handsome address; for which I heartily return you my thanks; and shall
esteem my being placed at the head of this government a still greater favor from
God and the King, if it may at any time fall in my power, as it is my inclination,
to promote the kingdom   of the great Redeemer, by taking the College of New Jersey
under my countenance and protection, as a seminary of true religion and good
literature.

                                                                       "J. BELCHER."

     In an address to the Governor                    by the Trustees, the date
being September 24, 1755, mention is made of his ardor for the
promotion of true piety and sound learning among the inhabitants
of New Jersey, and of the indebtedness of the College to him,
under God, for its then flourishing state.                   In his reply he says             :




  " It seemed to me that a
                             seminary of religion and learning should be promoted
in this Province, for the better enlightening the minds      and polishing the manners
of this and the neighboring colonies.    .   .   .   This important   affair   I   have been,
during   my administration, honestly and heartily prosecuting in all such laudable
ways and measures as I have judged most likely to effect what we all aim at,
which I hope and believe is the advancing the kingdom and interest of the
blessed Jesus and the general good of mankind."


  These extracts furnish abundant evidence that the promotion
of true religion and of sound learning was the aim of all concerned
in laying the foundations of the College of                 New Jersey.
     Although the      Synod of New York, as a body, took no part
                                 College of New Jersey, but
in the first efforts to establish the
left     important measure to the fostering care of sundry
        this

leading ministers and laymen connected with the Presbytery
of New York, yet when the new charter was given to the Col-

lege by Governor Belcher, the entire Synod became interested
in promoting the design of the College.  And when, in 1753,
the Trustees of the College had obtained the consent of the
Rev. Gilbert Tennent and of the Rev. Samuel Davies to visit
Great Britain and Ireland, to           solicit        funds for the erection of
suitable buildings, the Synod, upon the petition of the Trustees,

appointed these distinguished gentlemen to this work, gave
them  letters of commendation, and sent with them an earnest

appeal to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland for
aid in behalf of the College. After reciting their utter inability
to     meet the demand for ministers, to supply the Presbyterian
 64           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

 churches          in    connection with the Synod, in the Provinces of
 New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, and
 Carolina, the Synod say:
      "
          Now, it is from the College of New Jersey only that we can expect a remedy
for these inconveniences;             it   is   to that [college] your petitioners look for the in-
 crease of their        numbers   ;
                                      it   is   on that the Presbyterian churches through the six
colonies above mentioned principally depend for a supply of accomplished minis-
ters ;     from that has been obtained considerable relief already, notwithstanding the
many disadvantages that unavoidably attend it in its present infant state; and
from that may be expected a sufficient supply, when brought to maturity.
   " Your
           petititioners, therefore, earnestly pray that this very reverend Assembly
would afford the said College all the countenance and assistance in their power.
The young daughter of the Church of Scotland, helpless and exposed in foreign
lands, cries to her tender and powerful mother for relief.      The cries of ministers
oppressed with labors, and of congregations famishing for want of the sincere
niilk of the word, implore assistance.     And were the poor Indian savages sensible
of their own case they would join in the cry, and beg for more missionaries to be
sent to propagate the religion of Jesus among them."

      In the conclusion of their address they add:
      "
          Now, as the College of New Jersey appears to be the most promising expedient
to redress these grievances, and to promote religion and learning in these Provinces,

your petitioners most heartily concur with the Trustees, and humbly pray that an act
may be passed by this venerable and honorable Assembly for a national collection
in behalf of said College."                (See printed minutes, pp. 255 and 256, of the Synod
,of   New York.)
  Funds more than sufficient to defray the expense of erecting
Nassau Hall was the result of this action of the Synod. The
above extracts from the address of the Synod to the General
Assembly of the Church of Scotland show clearly why the
members of the Synod labored so assiduously to establish
and to sustain with vigor the College of New Jersey. They
regarded it as the most effectual means of supplying their
churches with an able ministry.
   The authorities above cited* are amply sufficient to establish
the positions assumed above as to the views and aims of those
who founded and built up this institution. Prompted by a
.strong desire to further the interests of religion, and more
especially to furnish their own branch of the Church with an
able and learned ministry, they sought to lay the foundation of

      * See also the Rev. David Cowell's letter,
                                                            urging Mr. Davies to accept the presi-
dency of the College, in Dr. Hall's "History," page 132, or Webster's, page 444.
                        THE DESIGN OF THE COLLEGE, ETC.
                                                                                           65

an institution of learning which should be commensurate with
the wants of the whole community, and so to conduct its affairs
as to promote, at one and the same time, the welfare of the
Church and of the State.
                                                                                       "
  Having obtained a charter, to use their own expression, so
ample and well contrived," the Trustees were not only content,
but perfectly satisfied with its provisions. It gave them all they
wanted. They were left untrammelled by the State, and yet
were under its protection. They enjoyed the confidence of the
Church, and yet were perfectly free to adopt such measures as
they deemed best adapted to the success of the institution, and
through it to advance the civil and religious interests of the
country and, being wise, active, and pious men, their labors
                 ;



were not in vain.
  The view here presented accords fully with that given by
                       "
President Green in his   Historical Sketch of the Origin and

Design of the College," as the following extract from that work
will fully show :

      " It is
                apparent not only from the motives which so powerfully influenced those
who first projected the College, and who labored so long and earnestly to establish
it,   but from the express and repeated declarations of Governor Belcher, in his re-

plies to the addresses to the original Trustees (those named in the second charter),
that this institution was intended, by all the parties concerned in founding it, to be
one in which religion and learning should be unitedly cultivated in all time to
come. This ought never to be forgotten. There is scarcely anything more un-
righteous in itself, or more injurious to society, than disregarding and perverting
the design of the founders of charitable, religious, or literary institutions. It is

doing base injustice to the dead, and           at the   same time a powerful and often an
effectual discouragement to those among the living, who might, otherwise, make
exertions and bestow their property to found and endow establishments of the

greatest public utility. It is hoped that the guardians of Nassau Hall will forever

keep in mind that the design of its foundation would be perverted               if   religion
should ever be cultivated -in it to the neglect of science, or science to the neglect of
religion ;      if,   on the one hand, it should be converted into a religious house like a
Monastery, or a Theological Seminary, in which religious instruction should claim,
almost exclusively, the attention of every pupil ; or if, on the other hand, it should
become an establishment in which science should be taught, how perfectly soever,
without connecting with it, and constantly endeavoring to inculcate, the principles
and practice of genuine piety. Whatever other institutions may exist or arise in
our country, in which religion and science may be separated from each other by
their     instructors or governors, this institution, without a gross perversion of its

original design, can never be one."
66         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

      It is worthy of note that       Governor Belcher and the Trustees,
in speaking of the         College as an institution designed for the
promotion of religion and learning, always mention religion
first and it is evident from what they said and did with respect
       ;



to the College, that the religious culture of the pupils was the

thing uppermost in their minds, and that to which they attached
the most importance.            Between true religion and sound learn-
ing there cannot be any real or substantial disagreement nor           ;



will the volume of Nature when thoroughly unfolded be found
to contradict the         volume of Inspiration properly interpreted.
Science, falsely so called, may call into question the teachings of
revealed truth, but such a thing as this can never be allowed in
this institution, unless its guardians lose sight of its original

design and prove recreant to the trust confided to them. Yea,
more, if due regard be had to this sacred trust, the promo-
tion of true religion will ever be regarded by the authorities of
the College as having the first claim upon their attention, in
alltheir plans for the extension and the improvement of the
course of instruction given in the College.             It must ever be the

solemn duty of the Trustees to see to             it,   in   the selection of

persons to     fill   the vacancies in their     own Board, that none
be chosen      in   regard to       whom any doubt can be entertained
as to their approval of the original design of the College, or in

regard to their earnest desire to secure the very purposes for
which the College was erected. In the good providence of
God, the College has an ample charter,' that is equal to all its
legitimate aims and we trust that it will undergo no radical
                      ;




changes, in deference to the varying opinions of the day and
to a public clamor for experiment and innovations. If the Col-

lege were a State institution, founded, supported, and governed
by State authorities, it might with some show of reason be
expected to conform its teachings, discipline, and mode of select-
ing its guardians and instructors to the wishes and whims of
those who, from time to time, may represent the opinions of
the community at large but this is not the case with the Col-
                                :




lege of New Jersey.         It was founded, not by the State, although

with the sanction and under the protection of the civil power,
to accomplish certain definite purposes, and in a certain definite
            THE DESIGN OF THE COLLEGE, ETC.
                                                                   /

way. Nor was it founded directly by the Church, although
one branch of the Church extended to it a fostering care, and
prominent members of that Church were the first to devise the
plan of it and to lay its foundations. The founders of the
College were both members of the Commonwealth and mem-
bers of the Church, and they were in every respect suitable
men to be intrusted with the important enterprise of erecting
and controlling an institution for the education of youth, in
whose education both the State and the Church were deeply
interested. In both charters it was stipulated that none should
be excluded from the privileges of the College on account of
any different religious sentiments, as was the case in the Eng-
lish Universities, but, on the contrary, that all should enjoy

equal liberties and privileges yet the very terms of the stipu-
                                 ;



lation show that the College was expected to have a religious

faith, although none were to be required to adopt the religious
views embraced by the College authorities as a condition of
enjoying the privileges afforded to its members.
  The petitioners for the College charter were known to be
Presbyterians, and it was also known that the governing motive
with them in seeking a charter was to provide for the youth of
their own Church, and    more especially for their candidates for
the ministry, a thorough training in all the various branches
of a liberal education, including, as a matter of the highest in-
terest, full instruction in   the doctrines of the Christian   faith,

according to their understanding of them.
  Either the superior judgment of those concerned in the
foundation of our College, and their great liberality of senti-
ment, or else the circumstances of their position, perhaps all
combined, led them to adopt the very best plan possible for the
right founding and the right ordering of such an institution.
They made it neither a State College nor a Church College,
but committed it to the oversight and care of a select number
of the very best men interested in this enterprise, and who had
the confidence and respect of the whole community, being lead-

ing men both in the Church and in the State.
  It has been sometimes a matter of remark and even censure

that the Legislature of New Jersey never contributed any funds
68       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

for sustaining its oldest college, which has been a source of

many benefits to  the State, and the occasion of large sums of

money being expended here.             But in this matter we incline to
the opinion that the Legislature has acted wisely for the State
and happily for the College.          Had the College been liberally
endowed by the State, this might have given the Legislature a
pretext, if nothing more, for interfering with the government and
course of instruction     which we are happy to say it has never
                           ;



attempted to' do.     In the charter of the College the Legislature
has never made a change, except at the request of the Trustees          ;



and never refused to make one desired by the Board.                 And,
further, the Legislature        has at different times enacted special
laws for the protection of the students from extortion and for
the guarding of their health and morals.
  Had the College been a State institution, under the control
of a Board of Trustees chosen from time to time by the State
authorities, and with a course of instruction         and a system of
government presented by the Legislature, the State would doubt-
less have regarded it as a duty to do all in its power to sustain
the College, and to provide the requisite means for an ample
and most liberal course of instruction. But in this case prob-
ably the course of religious instruction, the most important
given in any school or college, must have been circumscribed
and of a comparatively limited extent, if not wholly excluded:
lest the rights   of conscience should be invaded.
     The only effectual course to guard against such a result is to
have this matter of a higher education in the hands of a select
number of prominent citizens, bearing the twofold relation of
citizens and of church-members, with power to perpetuate them-
                        own discretion all vacancies in their
selves, by filling at their
own body, and let all who are disposed and are able to estab-
lish   such institutions be encouraged to do so, by granting them
corporate privileges without regard to the particular religious
denomination with which they are associated. In this way full
provision    may be made in the academic curriculum for all the
religious instruction which the interests of either the State or
the Church call     for.       Each pupil, or his parent   for   him, can
select the college he prefers, in view of all the advantages prof-
              THE DESIGN OF THE COLLEGE, ETC.
                                                                 69

fered, and neither pupil nor parent can properly complain that
the student   isrequired to give attention to the whole of the
prescribed course, including the religious as well as the literary
and scientific parts of that course.
  On this plan, too, each religious denomination will have a
guarantee that the children of their own Church will have a
sound religious training according to their views of truth. For
such colleges must to a great extent depend for their patronage
and support upon that religious denomination with which the
trustees and teachers are connected and thus indirectly the
                                          ;



Church, or the particular branch of it under whose auspices a
college has been established, will have a voice in its manage-
ment, and that too without being subjected to any of those in-
conveniences and troubles to which a more direct control might
readily and naturally give rise, introducing jealousies and col-
lisions into the ecclesiastical bodies themselves. Happily for the

College of New Jersey, it is not and never has been a State or
a Church college yet through the whole period of its exist-
                       ;



ence it has merited and received the countenance and favor of
that branch of the Church  most interested in its establishment,
and also the confidence and protection of the State authorities
which gave and confirmed its charter. Yea, more, such from
the beginning has been its catholic spirit, that not a few of its
warmest friends have been found in other denominations than
the Presbyterian   ;
                       and it has had the honor to educate for other
branches of the Church some of their brightest intellects, who
have not failed to acknowledge their indebtedness to their
Alma Mater.
  While, therefore, the friends of this College are not called
upon to speak disparagingly of colleges directly under either
State or Church control, they may be thankful that the College
of their affections was intrusted to the exclusive care of a few
wise and select men, who, in the fear of God, laid deep its
foundations, and upon them erected an institution for the ad-
vancement of piety and learning, and had a special reference
to the supplying of their own branch of the Church of Christ
with a godly and well-trained ministry.
                        CHAPTER III.
                 THE CHARTERS OF 1746 AND 1748.

  THE first charter of the College passed the great seal of the
Province on the 22d of October, 1746, and it was attested by
John Hamilton, Esq., President of his Majesty's Council, and
Commander-in-Chief of the Province of New Jersey, as appears
from a memorandum made in Book C of Commissions and
Charters, etc., page 137, in the office of the Secretary of State
for    New Jersey.
   The charter itself is not given in these records.      By the par-
ties to   whom it was granted it is spoken of as " a charter with
fulland ample privileges," and one by which " equal liberties
and privileges are secured to every denomination of Christians,
any different religious sentiments notwithstanding."
   In an advertisement in the " New York Gazette and Weekly
Post Boy" of February 2, 1746-47, it is mentioned that this
charter was granted to Jonathan Dickinson, John Pierson,
Ebenezer Pemberton, Aaron Burr, ministers of the gospel,
and some other gentlemen, as Trustees of said College.
  According to a memorandum made by Mr. Nathaniel Fitz
Randolph, of Princeton, the gentleman who gave to the College
the land upon which Nassau Hall is erected, the whole number
of Trustees under the first charter was twelve.
  This comprises all that    is   now positively known respecting
this charter, of which neither the original nor any copy is to be
found.
  In his biographical sketches of Presbyterian ministers in this
country, the late Rev. Richard Webster mentions that the Rev.
Thomas Arthur was one of the original Trustees of the Col-
lege.     This is by no means improbable   ;
                                               but on what authority,
or with what understanding of its import, this statement is made,
        70
                  THE CHARTERS OF 1746 AND 1748.
                                                                         71

is not known. Mr. Arthur was the pastor of the Presbyterian
church in New Brunswick, and a member not of the Presbytery
of New Brunswick, but of the Presbytery of New York, of which
body Messrs. Dickinson, Pierson, Pemberton, and Burr were all
members. Mr. Arthur is named in the second charter as one
of the Trustees under that grant.
      The second charter was given two years after the first, by
Jonathan Belcher, Esq., his Majesty's Governor of New Jersey,
and it passed the great seal of the Province on the I4th of
September, 1748. Under this second charter the number of
clerical and lay Trustees, exclusive of the President of the Col-

lege, was equal.        It is, therefore,        most probable that one-half
of the Trustees under the           charter were laymen.
                                      first                And as
all   the ministers who     are known to have been Trustees under
the first charter, and alive at the date of the second charter, are
named as Trustees in this second instrument, so it is probable
that most, if not  all, of the lay members of the Board under

the first charter, who were living at the date of the second,
continued to be Trustees under the second.
      The ministers of the gospel known to have been Trustees
under the     first   charter   all    resided either in East Jersey or in
New York City; and this renders it highly probable that the
lay Trustees associated with              them were also residents in the
same districts.
  Of the lay Trustees named     in the second charter, William
Smith and P. V. B. Livingston were members of the First Pres-
byterian Church in the city of 'New York, of which church the
Rev. Ebenezer Pemberton was the pastor; and it is certain that
Mr. Pemberton was a Trustee under both charters. Wm. Pear-
tree Smith, who was a Trustee from 1748 to 1793, forty-five

years, also resided in the city of New York, at the respective
dates of the first and of the second charter. Subsequently he was
a prominent citizen of Elizabethtown, New Jersey, and a Trustee
of the Presbyterian church there. James Hude, a member of
his Majesty's Council for         New Jersey, was connected with the
Presbyterian church in New Brunswick, under the pastoral care
of the Rev. Thomas Arthur.                    Andrew Johnston, who was not
only a Trustee, but also the first person chosen Treasurer of the
72
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

College under the second charter, was a member of his Ma-
                 New Jersey, and a resident of Perth Amboy,
jesty's Council for
the residence of President Hamilton, and the seat of govern-
ment for East Jersey.     Messrs. Hude and Johnston were
members of the Council when President Hamilton, with the
consent of the Council, granted the first charter. The five
civilians here named as included among the Trustees under
the second charter were       gentlemen of high standing, and
                                  all

for the reasons   suggested  above we deem it morally certain
that some if not all of them were Trustees of the College
under the first charter as well as under the second ; and that
Samuel Smith, the earliest historian of New Jersey, was sub-
                               "
stantially correct in saying thatthe College was first founded

by a charter from President Hamilton, and enlarged by Gov-
                                         "
ernor Belcher."    (See Smith's  History of New Jersey," page
490.)    Mr. Smith was a personal friend of Governor Belcher,
and for some years a townsman.
   It is true, indeed, that in the second charter there is no reference

made to the one previously granted by President Hamilton of
his Majesty's Council        and there appears to have been a dis-
                             ;




position upon the part of some of the friends of the College to
lose sight of the first charter, and to regard the College under
the second charter as a new and distinct institution. Thus, in
an account of the College prepared by Mr. Samuel Blair, then
a Tutor in the College, under the direction of President Finley,
and published in 1766, we meet with the following statement
upon page 7      :




  " Yet even in this dark
                           period there were not wanting several gentlemen, both
of the civil and of the sacred character, who, forming a just estimate of the im-

portance of learning, exerted their utmost efforts to plant and cherish it in the
Province of New Jersey. After some disappointments and fruitless attempts, appli-
cation was at length made to his Excellency Jonathan Belcher, Esq., at that time
Governor of the Province ; and in the year 1 748 he was pleased, with the approba-
tion of his Majesty's Council, to grant a charter incorporating sundry gentlemen
of the clergy and laity, to the number of twenty-three, as Trustees, investing them
with such powers as were requisite to carry the design into execution, and consti-
tuting his Majesty's Governor, for the time being, ex officio their President."


     The writer of No. XL. of the " Watch-Tower" uses the fol-
lowing language (see pages 50 and 51, ante}:
                   THE CHARTERS OF 1746 AND 1748.
                                                                                              73
  " The                                   New Jersey College has no dependence upon the
          present constitution of
charter obtained from Governor Hamilton, nor indeed an\> relation to it ; as that

by which it is now established           is   in   sundry respects different, the majority of the
Trustees being also different persons.              Whether the charter obtained from Governor
Hamilton in his declining state was a valid one I am not able to determine.                   The
contrary, however, has always appeared to me most probable, and that                      ;




therefore wisely resigned; though, indeed, the Episcopal church in Newark                       is

established by a charter obtained of the same gentleman and in the same circum-

stances, the validity of   which I have not heard called in question."

                                     "
   The writers        of the             Watch -Tower" were opposed to the
founding of a college in                  New York by charter from a Gov-
ernor, and insisted           it    should be by an act of the Assembly, of
course with the concurrence of the Governor and Council; and
they were therefore,  in all probability, the more predisposed

to question the validity of a charter granted not even by the

regularly commissioned Governor, but by one for the time being
administering the government; and they were not unwilling to
throw doubt upon the right of Lieutenant-Governor De Lancey,
then at the head of affairs in New York, to grant a charter for
a college to be established in that Province, by giving utterance
to any doubt they may have had respecting the validity of the
charter granted by the acting Governor of New Jersey.
   As to the fact that a majority of the Trustees under the
second charter were different persons from those under the
first, it has nothing to do in deciding the matter in question,

viz., whether the College under the second charter was the same
with that under the                 Under the first the number
                                   first      charter.
of Trustees was tzvelve, and under the second twenty-three. Of
the former, one at least had died; and this itself would make
the neiv Trustees a majority of the whole number under the
second charter.
    It is true that the first charter ceased to be                        of any force upon
the acceptance of the second; and inasmuch as the first was
never recorded, and as all persons who could claim any rights
or privileges under it had transferred their interests to a new

corporation, no formal surrender of it was tendered
                                                          to the
                                                            This
granting power; nor was any such surrender required.
view of the matter accords with what, in  a letter of the date of
                        Belcher          the  Rev.  Gilbert Ten-
July 4, 1748, Governor          said to
     VOL. i.   6
74
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW ^JERSEY.

nent, and probably in reply to an inquiry made by Mr. Tennent,
        the old charter was not recorded, upon the appearance
viz., "as

of the present one the old one would become a nonentity."
By "the present one" is meant the charter prepared by himself,
or under his instructions, which at the date of his letter was
probably ready for revision by the Council.
  In a letter dated July 28, 1748, and addressed to the Rev.
Mr. Pemberton, Governor Belcher says                     :




  " The charter has
                      passed the seal, and   is   ready in all respects, and I think it is
best that you and Mr. Burr come hither [to Burlington] as soon as you can, to re-
ceive it from me, and that I may talk with you about the College."


   And on the 3Oth of the same month he writes to Mr. Ten-
nent    :




  " I have wrote to Mr.
                        Pemberton, desiring he and Mr. Burr would be here as
soon as they could, and when they come they should give you notice to come
hither also, when I should deliver the charter to you gentlerrien on behalf of the
Trustees."


   In these extracts, written in July, 1748, it is distinctly said
that "the new charter has passed the seal, and is ready in all

respects;" and yet it appears from the charter now in the pos-
session of the Trustees, that it was attested by the Governor
and passed the seal of the Province on the 1 4th day of Sep-
tember, 1748. The only solution of the discrepancy here men-
tioned is this, viz., that Messrs. Pemberton, Burr, and Tennent
were not altogether satisfied with some clauses of the charter as
at first prepared by the direction of Governor Belcher, and that
at their request the charter was altered, and passed the seal a
second time on the I4th of September, 1748, the day after its
final   approval by the Council of the Province.
   It   was doubtless from viewing the first charter as a nullity
upon their acceptance of the second, and from their regarding
a charter as essential to the very being of a college, that the
Trustees, in one of their written addresses to Governor Belcher,
viz., in that of November 24, 1755, speak of him as "t\\e founder,

patron, and benefactor of the College."
   As to the validity of the charter given by President Hamil-
ton, there    is   no more room for doubt than there                      is   with   re-
                        THE CHARTERS OF            j-j   46   AND 1748.              nr


spect to the validity of the one granted by Governor Belcher.
From the instructions given to Lord Cornbury, Governor of the
Province from              1702 to      1708 (see Smith's "History of New
Jersey," pages 258 and 259), it is evident that, upon the death or
absence of the Governor and the Lieutenant-Governor, the senior
Councillor became the acting Governor, and was in express
terms authorized to exercise all the powers of the Governor:
        " It is our will and
      .   .   .
                             pleasure, therefore, that if, upon your death or absence,
there be no Lieutenant-Governor or Commander-in-Chief, the eldest Councillor,
whose name is first placed in our instructions to you, and who shall be, at the time
of your death or absence, residing in our said Province of New Jersey, shall take-

upon him the administration of the government, and execute our said commission
and instructions, with the sei.>eral powers and aritJi orities therein contained, in the
same manner, and to all intents and purposes, as either our Governor or Commander-
in- Chief should or oitght to do, in case of your absence, or until your return, or in
all       cases until our further pleasure be known."


  August 23, 1743, the Secretary of the Board of Trade wrote
to John Hamilton, Esq., in reply to his letter of June 9, that
the Board looked upon him to be the legal President and Com-
mander-in-Chief of New Jersey from the 28th of March, 1736,.
   Mr. Morris took possession of the government. Upon the
till

death of Governor Morris, 1746, Mr. Hamilton, being the senior
Councillor, again took upon himself the administration of the
affairsof the Province as President of the Council and Com-
mander-in-Chief; and as such he granted, in the name of the
King, with the consent of the Council, the first charter of the
College.
  It is a far more serious question whether a charter given by

a Governor was a valid one before it received the sanction of
his Majesty by the advice of his Council.                         The one hundredth,
article of the instructions              given to Lord Cornbury is in these
words             :




      "And if anything shall happen that shall be of advantage and security to our
said Province, which is not herein or by our commission to you provided for, we do

hereby allow you, with the advice and consent of our Council of our said Province,
to take order for the present therein, giving to us; by one of our principal Secre-

taries of State, and to our      Commissioners for Trade and Plantations, speedy notice--
thereof, that so yott may receive our ratification, if
                                                       we shall approve the same."

          Lord Cornbury was the first Governor of New Jersey ap-
 76
               HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

pointed by the royal authority upon the surrender of the gov-
ernment by the Proprietors of East and West Jersey and this               ;




no doubt accounts for the fulness and particularity of the instruc-
tions given to him, as they would serve for the guidance of his
 successors in office.
  There does not appear to have been any subsequent aug-
mentation of the powers intrusted to the Governor, but, on the
contrary, further restrictions were imposed.
  The granting of charters was regarded by the Crown and its
.advisers as a special prerogative of the Crown.                   The Provincial
'Governors, as representatives of the regal authority, considered
.themselves authorized to give their consent to legislative acts

granting charters for various purposes; and                    among them were
charters to erect institutions for the advancement of knowledge
and for its increase among the people.   But these charters were
(liable to be revoked by the royal authority;and in one instance,
at least, the royal assent was refused to a charter to Harvard

College, viz., to the one granted in 1692 by the General Court
of Massachusetts, although it had the sanction of his Majesty's
Governor for that Province and in other instances the Gov-
                                          ;



ernor refused his consent to the action of the General Court in
reference to that institution.
      The charters granted by President Hamilton and Governor
Belcher           the   first   charters ever granted      by a Governor with
merely the consent of his Council                      were neither ratified nor
revoked by the supreme authority.                     Although they both passed
the seal of the Province, the first was never recorded, and the
one given by Governor Belcher on the 1/j.th of September, 1748,
was not recorded until the 4th of October, 1750, more than two
years after it had passed the seal and then it was placed on
                                                  ;



record by an order of the Trustees, given on the 26th of Sep-
tember immediately preceding. The order was in these words                           :




      "
          Ordered, That the Clerk take care to have the charter recorded in the Secre-
tary's Office at Amboy and at Burlington, -with all possible speed ;  and be allowed
.to   pay the charges out of the Lottery money in the hands of Mr. Hude."


      There       is   scarcely   room    for   doubt that the Trustees were
prompted to this measure                 by the sudden and severe illness of
                Tllh   CHARTERS OF 1746 AND i 74S.
                                                                  77

Governor Belcher at this time, and from an apprehension that
ifthe charter were not placed on the records of the Province
itmight, in case of the Governor's decease, be altered or even
altogether revoked by his successor in office. Of the alarming
illness of the Governor there       is   abundant evidence.   Cadwal-
lader Golden, in a letter of the date of October 6, 1750, to R.
H. Morris, then in London, says, " Governor Belcher has been
seized with palsy while attendingCommencement at Newark."
Governor Belcher himself, writing to his son in Ireland, July 3,
1752, says that his paralytic affection had so increased that for
eighteen months he had not been able to hold a pen.     His sub-
sequent correspondence shows that he never entirely recovered
from the effects of this shock.
  It has been conjectured that the reason why the charter

given by Governor Belcher was not sooner delivered to the
Trustees was owing to the necessity he was under of submitting
it to the
          inspection of the Home Government and of obtaining
the King's permission before issuing the instrument. (See Dr.
           "
Green's   Notes.")  But the correspondence of the Governor
with Messrs. Pemberton, Burr, Tennent, and Edwards, respecting
the charter, shows conclusively that the charter was not sent
to England before its delivery to the Trustees. Extracts from
this correspondence, establishing this fact, will hereinafter      be
given.
     That a copy of it was not sent to the authorities in London,
after   it had
               passed the seal and had been delivered to the
Trustees, is morally certain from the delay in recording the

instrument and from the circumstance that the recording of it
took place by order of the Trustees themselves, and not in
virtue of any statute requiring it to be done; and it is beyond

dispute that, although given in the name of George the Second,
the charter never received his Majesty's ratification. This is
                   "
evident from the   Diary" of the Rev. Samuel Davies, who, in
company  with  the  Rev. Gilbert Tennent, visited England and
Scotland in the years 1753 and 1754 to solicit funds to aid
the Trustees in their efforts to erect suitable buildings for the
recently-established college.       Under the head of February 6,
1754, Mr. Davies thus writes    :
7
          HISTORY OF 7 HE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
    " Went to Mr.
                        Stennet's, who went with us to introduce us to the Duke of Ar-
gyle to deliver Governor Belcher's letter.                     We
                                            found eight or ten Gentlemen and
Noblemen waiting in his Grace's Levee. His Grace took us into his Library, a
spacious, elegant room.       .   .       .   His Grace told us, after reading the letter, that as
the College related to the Plantations, we ought first to apply to the Lords of Trade
and Plantations, and, if they approved of it, he would willingly countenance it,
both here and in Scotland.    He advised us to apply to Lord Halifax or Lord
Duplin, and Mr. Stennet went to the latter,                .   .   .   and showed our Instructions from
the Trustees, and the petition we had drawn up.                         Mr. Stennet told him he applied
to him in confidence, and his Lordship assured him he would do nothing to injure us.

He thereupon told him that we had our Charter only from a Governor, and asked
him whether he thought it would be deemed valid in Court. His Lordship replied
that he doubted it, but he would soon satisfy himself by enquiring into the extent of
the Governor's commission      and in case it appeared valid, he would advise us to
                                      ;



lay the matter before the Archbishop of Canterbury, and that he himself would go
with Mr. Stennet to Mr. Pelham [the Prime Minister] in our Favor, and introduce
the matter in Court.        For my part, I am afraid of all applications to that Quarter,
lest ^ve lose our   Charter and stir up opposition ; and it is against my mind that the
matter has been carried so far.      Dined at Mr. Stennet's, who gave us five guineas
for the College.        Went home anxioiis as to the Fate of our Application to the Lords
of Trade and to the Court."

    Monday, February the llth, there is the following entry:
    " Visited Mr.                                                               He and his partner, Mr.
                    Mill, and delivered Mr. Donald's letter.
Oswald, advised us to apply to the Lords of Trade to encourage our Embassy. But I
am afraid of the consequence. Went to Mr. Denham, a Presbyterian minister, and
had a long and difficult dispute with him about the importance and necessity of our
College, the validity of our Charter, ivithoiit the Royal approbation, etc., which he
managed with great dexterity. It was my happiness to have my thoughts ready,
and I made such a defence as silenced him. His name is of great importance,
and I was solicitous to obtain it to our Petition, had                     lost all   hope of it, when, to
my agreeable surprise, he subscribed."

    Under the head of Thursday, the I4th of February, Mr.
Davies says         :




  " Waited on Mr. Stennet to hear Lord
                                          Duplin's opinion of the validity of our
Charter, but he was indisposed and had not waited on his Lordship."


    On Wednesday, the 6th of March, Mr. Pelham, the Prime
Minister, died,and his death diverted the attention of Lord
Duplin from  any further inquiry with respect to the extent of
Governor Belcher's powers, and as to the validity of the charter,
  matters of more immediate importance at home demanding
      time.
all his      At any rate, no further mention of the charter is
made in Mr. Davies's " Diary," nor any allusion to it.
                             THE CHARTERS OF i 74 b AND i 748.
                                                                                                79
  In reference to Mr. Pelham's death and its results, mentioned
on page 176 of his " Diary," Mr. Davies observes:

  " This
           day died the Honorable Henry Pelham, Esq., Prime Minister, which has
struck the   town [London] with consternation. He has left a general good char-
acter behind him;                and the Court is puzzled whom to choose in his place."


  Again, under the date of Tuesday, the iQth of March, Mr.
Davies writes                :




  " The Court is all in confusion about
                                                        choosing one to fill up Mr. Pelham's place,
and the King           is   much perplexed.        He says he hoped to spend his old age in
Peace, but   all       his       Peace is buried   in   Mr. Pelham's grave."     ("Diary,"   vol.   i.


pages 188-89.)

  Elections were held soon after in the city of London, and,
the state of things there not being favorable to the prosecution
of their agency, Messrs. Tennent and Davies left London for
Edinburgh and, although they returned to London before
                   ;




sailing for America, nothing                        more appears to have been said
or done in reference to the charter.
  Whether               the approval of the                  King was
                                                                  requisite to give
validity to the charter is                    now, happily, a matter of no moment
to the College.   Its validity was never called in question by

any court  in Great  Britain or in the Province, and by an act

passed the   I3th of  March, 1780, the Legislature of the State
recognized and confirmed its grants.
  It is, however, a matter of interest to                               many friends of the
College whether under the second charter it was a new insti-
tution, and entirely distinct from the College under the first
charter, or whether it was the same College under both charters.
The facts recited above tend to show, if they do nothing more,
that the College of  New Jersey under the first charter and
the College of New Jersey under the second charter were
one and the same institution. Its powers and privileges may
have been, and doubtless were, somewhat enlarged, and the
number of Trustees nearly doubled; but the Trustees and
students of the one became Trustees and students of the
other and the Rev. Mr. Burr, who, upon the death of Mr.
       ;




Dickinson, had the oversight and instruction of the students
and the general interests of the College intrusted to him, was
go         HISTORY OF 7 HE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

unanimously chosen President by the Trustees of the second
charter.  Before the second charter was prepared, it must have
been fully understood that he was to be the President under
the second charter, as appears from these two facts: 1st, that
the whole number of Trustees, exclusive of the Governor of
the Province and the President of the College, was limited to
twenty-one ; and, 2d, that in the charter itself twenty-two names
are inserted, and one of them is that of Aaron Burr, who, upon

being chosen President, became ex officio a Trustee, and this
reduced the number to the limit prescribed in the charter itself.
  If the view here presented be the correct one, President Dick-
inson is justly regarded as the first President of the College of
New Jersey; and he has a right to the place so long conceded
to him in the triennial catalogue of the College as its first Presi-
dent   ;
           and to him and his associates should also be conceded t/ie
honor of being the founders of the College.
     The advertisement taken from the " New York Gazette" of
February       2,   1746-47, and inserted at the beginning of this
chapter, is of itself sufficient to show that the first charter of
the College was obtained, not by the Synod of New York, but
by the most prominent members of the Presbytery of New
York. Had it been obtained through any action of the Synod,
or by any concert among the leading members of that body,
there can be no doubt that Gilbert Tennent and Samuel Blair
would have been mentioned with Messrs. Dickinson, Pierson,
Pemberton, and Burr as those to whom the charter had been
granted.    They were both far too prominent in the Church not
to have been named in such an announcement to the public,
had they been Trustees under the first charter, and men of
too much influence not to have had their names inserted in the
charter, had they consented to take any part in the effort to
obtain it.   Beyond all question, Mr. Tennent was the most in-
fluential member in the Presbytery of New Brunswick, and Mr.
Blair the leading man in the Presbytery of New Castle; and
had the first efforts to establish the College, and to procure for
it a charter, originated with the Synod, the whole matter would

not have been given up to the ministers and laymen connected
with the Presbytery of New York.            The Presbytery of New
                     THE CHARTERS OF i 74 6 AND i 74S.                   gl

Brunswick embraced a larger number of ministers and churches
than did the Presbytery of New York, and included several in
Pennsylvania, as well as a majority of those in New Jersey.
  In the attempt to enlarge the sphere of the
                                                   College and to
increase the number of its friends, the first effort was
                                                                   naturally
made to secure the countenance and support of the friends of
the Neshaminy school, and to bring into the Board of Trustees
Messrs. Gilbert and William Tennent, and some of their
                                                       par-
ticular friends,       which was done; and   also, as far as practi-
cable, to gain for the College the good will of other      gentlemen
of position and influence, both in West Jersey and in Pennsyl-
vania.  Hence we find in the second charter the names of Chief-
Justice Kinsey and Judge Edward Shippen, of Philadelphia,
and of the Rev. Mr. Cowell, of Trenton, then a member of
the Presbytery of Philadelphia, and of the Rev. Samuel Blair,
of Fagg's Manor, Pennsylvania.
     In the   list   of ministers   whom it was proposed to make
Trustees, under the second charter, Mr. Blair's name was not
included at the first possibly from a doubt of his willingness to
                          ;



be a Trustee in an institution which might interfere with the one
established by himself, or might require him, in case of its suc-
cess, to change the character of his own school.         But whatever
may have been the reason, the fact was as here stated and this ;



is   evident from Governor Belcher's letter of the 6th of April,
                                                           "
1748, to the Rev. Mr. Pemberton, in which he says, I am well

pleased to add the name of the Rev. Samuel Blair to the
Trustees, for        you must remember    that   we cannot have too
many friends in our present infant state."
  The circumstance just mentioned, independently of the evi-
dence given heretofore, would of itself make it morally certain
that Mr. Blair was not a Trustee under the first charter.
     The ground taken above as to the oneness of the College under
both charters is abundantly strengthened by the following extracts
from Governor Belcher's letters.        The dates, and the names of
the persons to whom the letters are addressed, precede the ex-
tracts.   Governor Belcher arrived in this country from England
August 8, 1747.
     October 8, 1747, to President Dickinson:
82       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
  " I
      duly received your favor of the loth ult, enclosing a catalogue, but for some
reason I shall not send it forward till I see you, which I hope may be next month,
when the Assembly sits here,   the 1 7th,   and I shall be glad Mr. Pemberton could
so order as to come with you, and that you may be prepared to lay something before
the Assembly for the service of the embryo College, as a Lottery, or anything else."


     Mr. Dickinson died on the /th of October, 1747, the day
before this letter was written.
     October 8, 1747, to Rev. Mr. Pemberton, of New York:
  " Mr. Dickinson has sent me a
                                   catalogue, which I have not thought proper to
send forward till I shall talk with him and you, and which I hope may be next
month, when the Assembly of the Province meets here (lyth), and I would have
you come prepared to lay something before the Assembly for the service of our
infant College. I say our, because I have determined to adopt it for a child, and

to do everything in my power to promote and establish so noble an undertaking."


  October 8, 1747, to Mr. Smith, New York. After acknowl-
edging the receipt of several other things sent to him by Mr.
Smith, the Governor adds           :




  " I have also the
                    Lottery scheme, which may be of service in the affair of our
infant College.   What went into the newspapers was carefully clone."

  These are extracts from three letters written on the same
day, but cited in the reverse order from that in which they
were written, one to the President of the College, one to the
Rev. Mr. Pemberton, who beyond all doubt was a Trustee under
both charters, and the third evidently addressed to one deeply
interested in the prosperity of the then existing College.               The Mr.
Smith to whom one of these letters is addressed was prob-
ably Mr. Wm. Peartree Smith, of whom Governor Belcher,
in a letter to the Rev. Mr. Sergeant, of the date of February 23,

1748, makes mention as being his correspondent in the city of
New York. Mr. Smith was one of the Trustees named in the
second charter, and most probably he was also a Trustee under
the first. In addition to the other reasons for this opinion
assigned above, there is a confirmation of it in the form of ex-
                                                "
pression used in his letter to this gentleman, our infant Col-
lege" compared with the same expression in the Governor's
letter to   Mr. Pemberton of the same date, in which he explains
his meaning in his use of this phrase, "our infant College:" "I

say our, for I have determined to adopt it for a daughter." This
                     THE CHARTERS OF 77/5 AND 1748.
                                                                                     83

was a very proper expression               in writing to a Trustee of a col-

lege recently organized, but not an appropriate one had he
been writing to a person who had no particular connection with
the College.         Mr. Pemberton, we know, was a Trustee at this
time, and we infer it to be highly probable that Mr. Smith was
also.  Mr. Dickinson is urged by the Governor to come pre-
pared to present a petition to the Assembly for a lottery, or for
something         else, for   the service of the College.               In his letter
to Mr. Smith, the          Governor speaks of having also the Lottery
scheme, which may be of service in the affairs of our infant Col-
lege,  that is, in case the Assembly will authorize the Trustees
to raise funds for the College by means of a lottery.
   October 2, 1747, to his friend Mr. Walley:
  ".   There has been a striving at what place the College should be built, but I have
persuaded those concerned to fix it at Princeton, and I think as near the centre as
any, and a fine situation. I believe they must have a nezv and better charter, which
I shall give them."



  This letter was written a few days before the death of Presi-
dent Dickinson, and it determines another point of interest,
             question of another charter was agitated before the
viz., that the

death of President Dickinson.
   November, 1747, to Mr. Pemberton                   :




  " I shall be                                                   The death of
            glad to see you here/^r the sake of the College.        .   .   .




that eminent servant ofGod, the learned and pious Dickinson, is a considerable
Rebuke of Providence, and is to remind us that we have such precious treasure
in earthen vessels, and that our eyes and hearts must     be lifted to the great head of
the Church, who holds the stars in his right hand.        Then let us not despond or
murmur."

   December 15, 1747, to Mr. Allen, of Boston:
  " The death of the late excellent, now ascended, Dickinson, is indeed a consid-

erable loss to   my adopted daughter; but God lives, and is always better than we
deserve, and with whom we must wrestle for his mercy and blessing
                                                                       to fall upon

our Infant College, so shall it rise into youth, and in God's best time become an
Alma Mater for this and the neighboring colonies."

   January 25, 1747-48, to Mr. Pemberton:
  " As to a new charter, if                                                     that mat-
                              you and the rest of the gentlemen will digest
ter, and with   enlargement, in the best manner you can,
                                                         and let me have a   Rough     of

it, to see if it can be
                        made better, you will be sure of all my Protection."
84        HISl^ORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  This last extract shows that at the date of this letter nothing
had been done towards the preparing of a new charter.
     March 21, 1747-48, to Mr. Burr, the successor of President
Dickinson:
  " You cannot be more
                          thoughtful or solicitous for the growth and prosperity of
my adopted daughter, and our future Alma Mater, than I am.      In order to the per-
fecting of the charter, you know it will be necessary for me- to go to Philadelphia,
and which I intend soon. You say Commencement is designed the third Wednesday
of May next ; so I will try to get the charter to you before that time.     I   much ap-
prove a wise frugality at the solemnity you mention, more especially in our Infant
Days, for I think the too common Extravagances and Debauchery at such times be
no honor to what may laudably pride itself in being called a Seminary of Religion
and Learning. So soon as the charter shall be completed, a meeting of the Trustees
will be very proper and necessary."


     The above extract shows that the Governor had no expec-
tation that the charter would be ready much before the third

Wednesday of May.             It was not, however, prepared              and issued
until the l^th of September, and the Commencement was post-

poned from time to time until the 9th of November, at the
request of Governor Belcher.
  May 31, 1748, to the Rev. Jonathan Edwards                        :




  " As to our                              a noble design, and if God pleases may prove
                 Embryo College,   it is

an extensive blessing. I have adopted it for a datighter, which I hope in time may
become an Alma Mater to this and the neighboring Provinces. ... I am getting
the best advice and assistance I can in a draft of a charter which I intend to give
our Infant College and I thank you for all the kind hints you have given for the
                     ;


service of this excellent undertaking," etc.


     This   is   conclusive as to the fact that the charter was not
matured at the date of this letter, May 31.
  June 1 8, 1748, to the Rev. Gilbert Tennent. In this letter
the Governor alludes to the first charter, viz., the one given by
President Hamilton, in these words                   :




  "
      Perhaps it may be more satisfactory to a majority of the intended Trustees to
proceed on the old Patent, in which I am quite easy."    And he adds, "If I have
any further to do in the matter, I shall immediately send it [the charter] to Mr.
Gillnawary of your city [Philadelphia] to be engrossed, who I think did the last."

     This extract shows that the charter had not been engrossed
as late as the iSth of June.
     Extracts from other letters, showing the same facts, might be
                       THE CHARTERS OF i 74 6 AND 1748.                     3^

given      ;
               but the above will probably be regarded as more than
sufficient to establish these two points:         i,   that the charter given
by Governor Belcher could not have been sent to England for
the King's approbation before its delivery to the Trustees; and,
2, that it was         given, not for a nciv college, but for the College
of    New Jersey, already established and in operation, under a
charter granted, in the name of the King, by President Hamil-
ton, of his Majesty's Council for           New Jersey.       It is   not for a
new institution, but for a new charter, that we are indebted to
Governor Belcher.       An infant is not a nonentity, nor a some-
thing that       to be, but a reality, a thing in actual existence.
                  is

So    in this case, the infant College of New Jersey, the
                                                           adopted
daughter of the Governor, was              in   being and engaged        in its
                                                                 "
appropriate work before Governor Belcher gave it a new and
better charter," and even before his arrival in the Province.
The       charter of 1748 doubtless gave increased vigor to the
institution,     and added largely to the number of its friends.
Under this new charter the College became, what its name
                            "
indicates it aspired to be,   The College of New Jersey," and
not simply of East Jersey, sending abroad throughout the land
a wholesome influence for the promotion of genuine piety and
sound        learning. Under this charter additions were made to
the       number of the Trustees, by introducing into the Board
several distinguished ministers and laymen in Pennsylvania and
New Jersey,             and among these the most prominent members
of the Presbyteries of New Brunswick and of New Castle,
and thus securing to the College the friendship and patronage
of the entire Synod of New York.
     It   has been conjectured that the reason why the first charter
was never recorded was this, that its grants were of so limited
a character that the founders of the College were much dis-
satisfied with it, and, knowing that Governor Belcher was to^be
the Governor of the Province, they hoped that he would give
them one with ampler powers and privileges. Dr. Green, in
his Sketch of the Origin and Design of the College, takes
this view of the matter; and most others, if not all, who have
had occasion to advert to it have done the same. Had they
ever met with the advertisement respecting the College inserted
86        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

in the"New York Gazette" of February 2, 1746-7, they would
have seen that the conjecture was not well founded as to any
dissatisfaction with the charter granted        by President Hamilton.
Had there been any such dissatisfaction, the Trustees in their
notice to the public could not have used the language they did:
"
    Whereas a charter with full and ample Privileges has been
granted by his Majesty, under the seal of the Province of
New Jersey, bearing date the 22d of October, 1746, for erecting
a college within said Province, ... by which charter equal
Liberties and Privileges are secured to every denomination of
Christians, different religious sentiments notwithstanding," etc.
There is some evidence that the charter was drawn by the
petitioners, and that they obtained all they asked for. (See
chap. L, "On the Origin of the College," page 44.)  How-
ever this may be, the acknowledgment by the Trustees, that
they had received a charter of the description just mentioned,
takes away entirely the foundation of the above conjecture as
to the reason why the first charter was not recorded.
      Was the second charter left unrecorded for two years or more
because of any dissatisfaction with it ?
      The first charter may not have been in all respects as liberal
as the second    ;
                     but in what the second differed from the first,
excepting with respect to the larger number of Trustees, and
in making the Governor of the Province for the time being
President of the Board, can now be only a matter of conjec-
ture.  Possibly the first charter was more restrictive as to the
power of conferring degrees, and as to the amount of pro-
ductive property which the Trustees were permitted to hold.
In its liberal provision for the admission of all classes of Chris-
tians to the privileges of the College, the first was on the same

footing with the second; and, in fact, the language of the second
as to this matter is evidently taken from the first. The reference
in the second charter to the concessions of Carteret, seemingly

for the purpose of assigning a good     and sufficient reason why
all    should be admitted to the privileges of the College, in ac-
cordance with the prayer of the petitioners, was also probably
intended to meet, by indirection, the objection to granting cor-
porate powers to a body of Dissenters       ;
                                                the right to do which
                THE CHARTERS OF 1746 AND 1748.
                                                                  g/

had been called in question upon an application for a church
charter for the First Presbyterian Church in the city of New
York. The connection in which these things occur in the
second charter renders       it
                                   highly probable that the provision
for admitting    all   classes    of Christians, and the reference to
the concessions of Carteret, were both borrowed from the first
charter.
   William Smith, the most distinguished lawyer of his day
in  New York, was a prominent member of the Presbyterian
Church in that city. For reasons given near the beginning of
this chapter, it is more than probable that he was a Trustee of
the College under both charters and it is by no means improb-
                                       ;



able that he prepared the first charter, and also "the rough" of
the second, which Governor Belcher desired Mr. Pemberton to
send him for his inspection. There was no person among Mr.
Pemberton's friends better, if so well, qualified to do this work,
and no one upon whom Mr. Pemberton would be so likely to
call for just such a service.  For many years, and to the end
of his life, Mr. Smith was an earnest friend of the College, and
one of the most honored and influential members of the Board.
  Governor Belcher was disposed to possess himself of the
views and wishes of those interested in the College, but at the
same time he purposed to mould the charter to suit his own
views and therefore, while he sought, and in some cases ac-
         ;




cepted, advice, he desired not to have a charter fully prepared
                                               "
for his approval and signature, but only the     rough" of one,
which he might examine and see if it could be made better.
He was to give " a new and better charter," and he must decide
for himself what that new and better charter must be; and to
this end he had it prepared under his own direction, as is fully
evident from his letters to Messrs. Pemberton and others.    He
introduced in the second charter the clause making the Gov-
ernor of the Province ex officio President of the Board of Trus-
tees, in opposition to the wishes of some of the friends of the

College and the earnest remonstrance of the Rev. Gilbert Ten-
nent.  But the Governor was inflexible as to this point, and
said he could not give a charter without such a provision.         It

is    not to be supposed that Mr. Tennent, or any other friend of
88         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

the College, had any objection to making Governor Belcher
President of the Board   the objection was to establishing it
                                       :




as a fixed rule that the Governor for the time being should
be President of the Board. The opposition to this measure
doubtless arose from an apprehension that it would sometimes
happen that the Governor would not be in sympathy with the
Trustees, and that he might embarrass their deliberations, even
if he should not directly oppose their measures.       But the ex-
perience   of more   than a hundred   years  has shown  that there
was no sufficient cause for any such apprehension, and that the
measure has worked to the advantage of the College, and not
to its injury. It is but right that the State to which the College
is indebted for its corporate privileges, and which has a deep

interest in the proper training of her youth, should be repre-
sented at the Board and have a voice in directing the affairs of
the institution        ;
                            and the Chief Magistrate of the State seems
to be the proper person to represent her in her highest seats of

learning, and to see that the interests of the State are properly
cared for and the directions of the charter properly observed.
From a remark made by Governor                             Belcher    in   his letter of

April 2, 1748, to Mr. Pemberton, it is not improbable that the
Governor would have been disposed to make several members
of Council ex officio members of the Board of Trustees, as well
as the Governor of the Province, for in this letter he says                         :




  " As to the matter of the President of the
                                             Trustees, I think Mr. Burr was con-
vinced with what   I       said, that it would   be best to be always the King's Governor
for the time being, which        may be of service on many accounts.       He is to be con-
fined to a single vote, nor is he to call, or adjourn, a meeting but in conformity to
the constitution.   It is now thirty years since my first being one of the Trustees

of Harvard College, by virtue of my being one of his Majesty's Council for the
Massachusetts Bay.  I could never observe any Inconvenience in that part of the

Charter.    However, I will consider and talk further with some of the Trustees on
this article."


   The first four persons named as Trustees of the College in
the charter given by Governor Belcher were members of his
Majesty's Council for New Jersey, but they were not Trustees
ex officio, but by special designation. There was probably an
earnest desire on the part of the friends of the College to
have these gentlemen for Trustees, but they never would have
                     THE CHARTERS OF 1746 AND i 74 S.
                                                                                 ^
assented to have their successors in his
                                         Majesty's Council to be
ex officio their successors in the Board of Trustees. The Col-
lege was a Presbyterian College, established by                   Presbyterians,
supported by Presbyterians, and controlled by Presbyterians,
and they never would have consented to run the risk that might
arise, either to      the religious or Presbyterian character of their
institution, from      having so large a number of the Board chosen,
not by the other Trustees, but by the civil power.
                                                    Knowing
the feeling on this subject on the part of the friends of the

College, Governor Belcher, even if willing to make sundry
members of the Council ex officio members of the Board, was
content with carrying out his plan of making the Governor
for thetime being 'President of the Board. In doing this he
did the College          good service.  Had he gone further in this
direction, he would         have turned away from the College some
of those who proved to be among its most efficient friends and
advocates.
     The following       extract    is   from a     letter   of Rev. Jonathan
Edwards to Rev. Dr. John Erskine, of Scotland, of the date
of May 20, 1/49, and written from Northampton:

     " I have heard
                     nothing new that is very remarkable concerning the College in
New Jersey.      It is in its infancy; there has been considerable difficulty about

settling their charter. Governor Belcher, who gave the charter, is willing to en-
courage and promote the College to his utmost, but differs in his opinion concern-
ing the Constitution which will tend most to its prosperity from some of the prin-
cipal ministers that have been concerned in founding the Society.He insists upon
it         Governor for the time being and four of his Majesty's Council for the
     that the
Province should always be of the Corporation of Trustees, and that the Governor
should always be the President of the Corporation.       The ministers are all very
willing that the present Governor, who is a religious man, should be in this stand-
ing ; but their difficulty is with respect to the future Governors, who they suppose
are as likely to be men of no religion and Deists as otherwise.    However, so the
matter is settled, to the great uneasiness of Mr. Gilbert Tennent, who, it is feared,
will have no further concern with the College on this account. Mr. Burr, the
President of the College, is a man of religion and singular learning, and I hope
the College will flourish under his care."


     The following is a list of the gentlemen named in the charter
given by President Hamilton in 1746, as far as positive evidence
exists on this head, viz., Jonathan Dickinson, John Pierson,
Ebenezer Pemberton, and Aaron Burr.
       VOL. I.   J
QO
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

     The following is a list of the Trustees named in the charter
given by Governor Belcher in 1748, viz., John Reading, James
Hude, Andrew Johnston, Thomas Leonard, John Kinsey, Ed-
ward Shippen, William Smith, Peter Van Brugh Livingston,
William Peartree Smith, Samuel Hazard, John Pierson, Eben-
ezer Pemberton, Joseph Lamb, Gilbert Tennent, William Ten-
nent, Richard Treat, Samuel Blair, David Cowell, Aaron Burr,
Timothy Johnes, Thomas Arthur, and Jacob Green.
     As already shown, it is very probable that at least nine of the
gentlemen here named were Trustees under the first charter.

            CHARTER OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
               GEORGE THE SECOND, by the grace of God, of Great Britain, France,
             and Ireland, king, defender of the faith, &c., to all to whom these
             presents shall come, greeting
Preamble.         WHEREAS sundry of our loving subjects, well-disposed and public-
             spirited persons, have lately, by their humble petition, presented to our
             trusty and well-beloved Jonathan Belcher, Esquire, governor and com-
             mander in chief of our province of New Jersey in America, represented
             the great necessity of coming into some method for encouraging and

             promoting a learned education of our youth in New Jersey, and have
             expressed their earnest desire that a college may be erected in our said
             province of New Jersey in America, for the benefit of the inhabitants
             of the said province and others, wherein youth may be instructed in
             the learned languages, and in the liberal arts and sciences.   AND
             WHEREAS by the fundamental concessions made at the first settlement
             of    New Jersey by the Lord Berkley and Sir George Carteret, then
             proprietors thereof,   and granted under their hands and the seal of the
             said province, bearing date the tenth day of February, in the year of
             our Lord one thousand six hundred and sixty-four, it was, among other
             things, conceded and agreed, that no freeman within the said province
             of New Jersey should at any time be molested, punished, disquieted or
             called in question, for any difference in opinion or practice in matters
             of religious concernment, who do not actually disturb the civil peace
              of the said province ; but that all and every such person or persons

              might, from time to time, and at all times thereafter, freely and fully
              have and enjoy his and their judgments and consciences, in matters of
              religion, throughout the said province, they behaving themselves peace-
              ably and quietly and not using this liberty to licentiousness, nor to the
              civil injury or outward disturbance of others, as by the said concessions

              on record in the secretary's office of New Jersey, at Perth Amboy, in
              lib. 3, folio 66, &c., may appear.   WHEREFORE and for that the said
              petitioners have also expressed their earnest desire that those of every
                   THE CHARTERS OF 1746 AND 1748.
                                                                                       g   t




religious denomination may have free and equal liberty and advantages
of education in the said college, any different sentiments in religion

notwithstanding.   WE  being willing to grant the reasonable requests
and prayers of all our loving subjects, and to promote a liberal and
learned education among them
  KNOW YE THEREFORE, that we, considering the premises, and being
willing for the future that the best means of education be established in
our said province of New Jersey, for the benefit and advantage of the
inhabitants of our said province and others, do, of our special grace,
certain knowledge and mere motion, by these presents, will, ordain,

grant and constitute, that there be a college erected in our said prov- College
ince of New Jersey, for the education of youth in the learned Ian- founded,

guages and in the liberal arts and sciences ;* and that the trustees of Trustees a
the said college and their successors for ever, may and shall be one corporation,

body corporate and politic, in deed, action and name, and shall be
called, and named and distinguished, by the name of THE TRUSTEES Corporate
OF THE COLLEGE OF         NEW JERSEY       and   further,   we have willed, name   -




given,  granted, constituted and appointed, and by this our present
charter, of our special grace, certain knowledge, and mere motion, we
do, for us, our heirs   and successors, will, give, grant, constitute, and
ordain, that there shall, in the said college from henceforth for ever, be Charter per-
a body politic, consisting of trustees of the said College of New Jersey, petual.
And for the more full and perfect erection of the said corporation and
body politic, consisting of trustees of the College of New Jersey, we,
of our special grace, certain knowledge and mere motion, do, by these

presents, for us, our heirs and successors, create, make, ordain, consti-
tute, nominate and appoint, the governor and commander in chief of
our said province of New Jersey, for the time being, and also our trusty
and well-beloved John Reading, James Hude, Andrew Johnston, Names of
Thomas Leonard, John Kinsey, Edward Shippen and William Smith, corporators.
Esquires, Peter Van-Brugh Livingston, William Peartree Smith and
Samuel Hazard, gentlemen, John Pierson, Ebenezer Pemberton, Joseph
Lamb, Gilbert Tennent, William Tennent, Richard Treat, Samuel Blair,
David Cowell, Aaron Burr, Timothy Johnes, Thomas Arthur and Jacob
Green, ministers of the gospel, to be trustees of the said College of
New Jersey.
  That the said trustees do, at their first meeting, after the receipt of Oaths to be
these presents, and before they proceed to any business, take the oath taken b Y
                                                                          tn
appointed to be taken by an act, passed in the first year of the reign
                                                    " An act for the further
of the late king   George the    First, entitled,

security of his Majesty's person and government, and the succession
of the crown in the heirs of the late princess Sophia, being protest-
ants, and for extinguishing the hopes of the pretended prince of
Wales and his open and secret abettors;" as also that they make and
subscribe the declarations mentioned in an act of parliament, made


               * Extended
                             by the Act of March n, 1864.
               HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY,

                 in the twenty-fifth year of the   reign of king Charles the Second,
                            " An act
                 entitled              forpreventing dangers which may happen from
                 popish recusants ;" and likewise take an oath for faithfully executing
 By whom         the office or trust reposed in them, the said oaths to be administered
 oaths to be     to them by three of his Majesty's justices of the peace, qitorum ttnus ;
adminis-
                 and when any new member or officer of this corporation is chosen,
tered.
                 they are to take and subscribe the aforementioned oaths and declara-
                 tions before their admission into their trusts or offices, the same to be
                 administered to them in the presence of the trustees, by such person
                 as they shall appoint for that service.*

Notice of             That no meeting of the trustees shall be valid or legal for doing any
meeting of      business whatsoever, unless the clerk has duly and legally notified each
trustees.
                and every member of the corporation of such meeting ; and that before
                the entering on any business, the clerk shall certify such notification
                under his hand, to the board of trustees.
To fill va-        That the said trustees have full power and authority or any ^thirteen
cancies.        or greater number of them, to elect, nominate and appoint, and asso-
                ciate unto them, any number of persons as trustees upon any vacancy,

Number of       so that the whole number of trustees exceed not "^twenty -three, whereof
trustees.       the president of said college for the time being, to be chosen as here-
                after mentioned, to be one, and twelve of the said trustees to be always
Residence.      such persons as are inhabitants of our said province of New Jersey.   And
                we do further, of our special grace, certain knowledge, and mere mo-
                tion, for us, our heirs and successors, will, give, grant and appoint, that
Perpetual       the said trustees    and their successors shall, for ever hereafter, be in
succession.
                deed, fact and name, a body corporate and politic ; and that they, the
                said body corporate and politic, shall be known and distinguished in
                all deeds, grants, bargains, sales, writings, evidences, muniments or
                otherwise howsoever, and in all courts for ever herereafter, plead and
               be impleaded, by the name of THE TRUSTEES OF THE COLLEGE OF
                NEW JERSEY.
Property.        And that they the said corporation, by the name aforesaid, shall be
               able and in law capable, for the use of the said college, to have, get, ac-

               quire, purchase, receive      and possess lands, tenements, hereditaments,
               jurisdictions and franchises, for themselves and their successors, in fee
               simple or otherwise howsoever; and to purchase, receive or build, any
               house or houses, or any other buildings, as they shall think needful or
               convenient for the use of the said College of New Jersey, and in such
               place or places inNew Jersey, as they the said trustees shall agree
               upon, and also to receive and dispose of any goods, chattels, and

                 * The entire clause relative to oaths
                                                       repealed and supplied by Act of
               March 13, 1780.
                  f Altered to nine, provided that the Governor of the State, or the
               President of the College, or the senior Trustee, be one of the nine ; by
               the Act of November 2, 1781, p. 18.

                  J Altered to twenty-seven by the Act of April 6, 1868.
                      THE CHARTERS OF 1746 AND 1748.
                                                                                               03
other things of what nature soever, for the use aforesaid        :   and also to
have, accept and receive any rents, profits, annuities, gifts, legacies,
donations and bequests of any kind whatsoever, for the use aforesaid,
so, nevertheless, that the    yearly clear value of the premises do not Limitation
exceed the sum of * tivo thousand pounds sterling :    And therewith or of value of
                                                                                   es
otherwise to support and pay, as the said trustees and their successors,
or the major part of such of them as Caccording to the provision herein

afterwards) are regularly convened for that purpose, shall agree and
see cause, the president, tutors and other officers or ministers of the
said college, their respective annual salaries or allowances, and all              Salaries,

such other necessary and contingent charges as from time to time shall
arise and accrue, relating to the said college ; and also to grant, bar-

gain, sell, let, set or assign, lands, tenements or hereditaments, goods
or chattels, contract or do all other things whatsoever, by the name Contracts,

aforesaid, and for the use aforesaid, in as full and ample manner, to all
intent and purposes, as any natural person or other body politic or cor-

porate is able to do, by the laws of our realm of Great Britain, or of
our said province of New Jersey.
  And of our further grace, certain knowledge and mere motion, to the Who to pre-
intent that our said corporation      and body politic may answer the end s '^ e        -




of their erection and constitution, and     may have perpetual succession
and continue for ever, WE do for us, our heirs and successors, hereby
will, give     and grant, unto the said trustees of the College of         New
Jersey, and to their successors for ever, that when any thirteen of the
said trustees or of their successors are convened and met together as

aforesaid, for the service of the said college, the governor          and com-
mander   in chief of our said province of New Jersey, and in his

absence, the president of the said college, and in the absence of the
said governor and president, the eldest trustee present at such meeting,
from time to time, shall be president of the said trustees in all their
meetings: and at anytime or times such thirteen trustees convened                  Q uorum
and met as aforesaid, shall be capable to act as fully and amply, to all
intents and purposes, as if all the trustees of the said college were per-

sonally present ; provided always, that a majority of the said thirteen
                                 New Jersey, except after regular notice
trustees be of the said province of

they fail of coming, in which case those that are present are hereby
empowered to act, the different place of their abode notwithstanding          ;



and all affairs, and actions whatsoever, under the care of the said trus-
                                                                          Majority of
tees, shall be determined by the majority or greater number of those              to
                                                                                   quorum
thirteen, so    convened and met together, the president whereof shall decide,
have no more than a single vote.
  And we do for us, our heirs and successors, hereby will, give and Meetings,
                                                                                   how called,
grant, full power and authority, to any six or more of the said trustees,
to call meetings of the said trustees, from time to time, and to order


  * Altered to one hundred thousand                         Act of March 1 1,
                                          dollars, by the

1864.
94
                  HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

                   notice to the said trustees of the times     and places of meeting for the
                   service aforesaid.
Election of            And also we do hereby for us, our heirs and successors, will, give
President.         an(j grant, to the said trustees of the College of New Jersey, and to
                   their successors for ever, that the said trustees do elect, nominate and

                   appoint such a qualified person as they, or the major part of any thirteen
                   of them convened for that purpose as above directed, shall think fit, to
                   be the president of the said college, and to have the immediate care of
                   the education and government of such students as shall be sent to, and
                   admitted into the said college for instruction and education ; and also
Tutors and         that the said trustees   do elect, nominate and appoint so many tutors
Professors.        an(j professors, to assist the president of the said college, in the educa-
                   tion and   government of the students belonging to it, as they, the said
                                                 major part of any thirteen of them,
                   trustees, or their successors, or the
             which shall convene for that purpose as above directed, shall, from time
             to time, and at any time hereafter, think needful and serviceable to the
             interests of the said college  and also, that the said trustees and their
                                                   ;


             successors, or the major part of any thirteen of them, which shall con-
Power of re- vene for that purpose, as above directed, shall at any time displace and
             discharge from the service of the said college such president, tutors and
moval.

                   professors, and to elect others in their room and stead ; and also, that

Oth         ffi
                   ^ e sa ^ trustees or their successors, or the major part of any thirteen

cers.              of them, which shall convene for that pupose, as above directed, do
                   from time to time, as occasion shall require, elect, constitute and appoint
                   a treasurer, a clerk, an usher, and a steward, for the said college,
                   and appoint to them, and each of them, their respective business and
                   trusts, and displace     and discharge from the service of the said college
                   such treasurer, clerk, usher or steward, and to elect others in their
Powers of          room and stead which president, tutors, professors, treasurer, clerk,
                                        ;


officers.          usher and steward, so elected and appointed, we do for us, our heirs
                   and successors, by these presents, constitute and establish in their sev-
                   eral offices,and do give them, and every of them, full power and
                   authority to exercise the same in the said College of New Jersey,
                   according to the direction, and during the pleasure of the said trustees,
                   as fully and freely as     any other, the like officers in our universities or
                   any of our colleges, in our realm of Great Britain, lawfully may and
                   ought to do.
Election of            And also that the said trustees, and their successors, or the major
                   part of any thirteen of them, which shall convene for that purpose
trustees.                                                                               as

                   above directed, as often as one or more of the said trustees shall hap-
                   pen to die, or by removal or otherwise shall become unfit or incapable,
                    according to their judgment, to serve the interest of the said college,
                    do, as soon as conveniently may be, after the death, removal or such
                    unfitness or incapacity of such trustee or trustees to serve the interest of
                    the said college, elect and appoint such other trustee or trustees as shall

                    supply the place of him or them so dying, or otherwise becoming unfit
                    or incapable to serve the interest of the said college ; and every trustee
                    THE CHARTERS OF 1746 AND 1748.
                                                                                         gr
so elected and appointed shall,
                                  by virtue of these presents, and of such
election, and appointment, be vested with all the
                                                  power and privileges
which any of the other trustees of the said        are        invested
                                              college     hereby
with.
     And we do further, of our special grace, certain knowledge and mere Laws for the
motion, will, give and grant, and by these presents do, for us, our heirs government
and successors, will, give and grant, unto the said trustees of the Col- of the co1 "
                                                                               kge
lege of New Jersey, that they and their successors, or the major part of
                                                                                     '




any thirteen of them, which shall convene for that      purposeas above
directed, may make, and they are hereby fully empowered           from time
to time, freely and lawfully to make and establish such
                                                                 ordinances,
orders and laws, as    may tend to the good and wholesome government
of the said college, and all the students and the several officers and min-
isters thereof, and to the
                           public benefit of the same, not repugnant to
the laws and statutes of our realm of Great Britain, or of this our
                                                                    prov-
ince of New Jersey, and not excluding any person of
                                                       any religious de-
nomination whatsoever from free and equal liberty and
                                                      advantage of
education, or from any of the liberties, privileges, or immunities of the
said college, on account of his or their
                                         being of a religious profession
different   from the said trustees of the said college; and such ordi-
nances, orders and laws, which shall be so as aforesaid made, we do,
by these presents, for us, our heirs and successors, ratify, allow of and
confirm, as good and effectual, to oblige and bind all the said students
and the several officers and ministers of the said college   ;
                                                                 and we do
hereby authorize and empower the said trustees of the college, and the
                and professors by them elected and appointed, to put
president, tutors
such ordinances and laws in execution, to all proper intents and pur-
poses.
  And we do further, of our especial grace, certain knowledge and Degrees,
mere motion, will, give and grant, unto the said trustees of the College
of New Jersey, that, for the encouragement of learning and animating
the students of the said college to diligence, industry, and a laudable

progress in literature, that they and their successors, or the major part
of any thirteen of them, convened for that purpose as above directed,
do, by the president of the said college for the time being, or by any
other deputed by them, give and grant any such degree and degrees
to any of the students of the said college, or to any others by them
thought worthy thereof, as are usually granted in either of our univer-
sities or any other college in our realm of Great Britain ;* and that

they do sign and seal diplomas or certificates of such graduations, Diplomas,
to   be kept by the graduates as perpetual memorials or testimonials
thereof.
     And further, of our especial grace, certain knowledge and mere mo- Seal,
tion, we do, by these presents, for us, our heirs and successors, give and

grant unto the said trustees of the College of New Jersey and to their


                * Extended
                             by the Act of March 29, 1866.
C>6          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

                   successors, that they and their successors shall have a    common seal,
                   under which they may pass all diplomas, certificates of degrees, and
                   all other the affairs and business of and
                                                             concerning the said corporation,
                   or of and concerning the said College of New
                                                                     Jersey, which shall be
                   engraven in such form and with such inscription as shall be devised
                   by the said trustees of the said college, or the major part of any thir-
                   teen of them,   convened for the service of the said college as above
                   directed.
Inferior   offi-     And we do further, for us, our heirs and successors, give and grant
                   unto the said trustees of the College of New Jersey and their succes-
                   sors, or the major part of any thirteen of them, convened for the ser-
                   vice of the college as above directed, full power and
                                                                          authority from
                   time to time, to nominate and appoint all other inferior officers and
                   ministers, which they shall think to "be convenient and necessary for
                   the use of the college, not herein particularly named or mentioned,
                   and which are accustomary in our universities, or in any of our col-
                   leges in our realm of Great Britain, which officers or ministers we do
                   hereby empower to execute their offices or trusts as fully and freely
                   as any other the like officers or ministers, in and of our universities
                   or any other college in our realm of Great Britain, lawfully      may or
                   ought to do.
                      And lastly, our express will and pleasure is, and we do by these
                   presents for us, our heirs and successors, give and grant unto the said
                   trustees of the College of New Jersey and to their successors for ever,
                   that these our letters patent, or the enrolment thereof, shallbe good
                   and effectual in the law, to all intents and purposes, against us, our
                   heirsand successors, without any other license, grant or confirmation
                   from us, our heirs and successors, hereafter by the said trustees to be
                   had or obtained ; notwithstanding the not reciting or misrecital, or not
                   naming or misnaming of the aforesaid offices, franchises, privileges, im-
                   munities, or other the premises, or any of them: and notwithstanding a
                   writ of ad quod damnum hath not issued forth to inquire of the premises
                   or any of them, before the ensealing hereof; any statute, act, ordi-
                   nance or provision, or any other matter or thing to the contrary
                   notwithstanding ; to have, hold and enjoy, all and singular the privi-
                   leges, advantages, liberties, immunities and all other the premises
                   herein  and hereby granted and given, or which are meant, men-
                   tioned, or intended to be herein and hereby given and granted, unto
                   them the said trustees of the said College of New Jersey, and to their
                   successors for ever.
                     IN TESTIMONY whereof we have caused these our letters to be made
                   patent, and the great seal of our said province of     New Jersey to be
                   hereunto affixed.   WITNESS our trusty and well-beloved Jonathan
                   Belcher, Esquire, governor and commander in chief of our said prov-
                   ince of New Jersey, this fourteenth day of September, in the twenty-
                   second year of our reign, and in the year of our Lord, one thousand
                   seven hundred and forty-eight.
                  THE CHARTERS OF 1746 AND 1748.

               I have   perused and considered the written charter of
            incorporation, and find nothing contained therein incon-
            sistent with his Majesty's interest or the honor of the

            Crown.
                                        J.   WARRELL, Att. Cert   I.




  September the   I3th,   1748.   This charter, having been read in
Council, was consented to and approved of.
                                             CHA. READ, Cl. Con.

  Let the Great Seal of the Province of New Jersey be affixed to this
charter.

                                                    J.   BELCHER.
  To the Secretary of the Province of New Jersey.
                       CHAPTER IV.
MEMOIR OF GOVERNOR BELCHER, AND BRIEF NOTICES OF THE
 TRUSTEES NAMED IN THE TWO CHARTERS OF THE COLLEGE.

  THE Governor was not, properly speaking, the founder of the
College, in the sense of being its originator, for the College was
in existence, and in active operation, before his arrival.     He was
                                                         "
not, therefore, to use a phrase of Lord Coke's, its          Fundator
Incipiens" although, in view of what he did towards the build-
                                                    "
ing up of the institution, he may be regarded as its Fundator
Perfidens;" and in this latter sense only can the statement in
one of the addresses of the Trustees to the Governor be justified,
when they assign as a reason why the first College edifice should
be called "Belcher Hall," that "the College of New Jersey
views you in the light of its founder, patron, and benefactor."
That this view of Governor Belcher's relations to the College is
a perfectly accurate one is evident from the extracts given in
this work from his letters to various correspondents, and from
his replies to the addresses presented to him by the Trustees of
the College. The extracts here referred to are those given in
the narrative of the two charters of 1746 and of 1748, in the
chapter on the Design of the College, and in the History of
President Burr's Administration.
  Governor Belcher was the son of the Hon. Andrew Belcher,
of Cambridge, one of his Majesty's Council for Massachusetts
Bay, and he was born on the 8th of January, 1682. He was
graduated at Harvard in 1699; and soon after he went to
Europe, where he resided six years. During this period he
formed an acquaintance with the Princess Sophia Dorothea, of
Hanover, and with her son, George Augustus, which opened
the way for his future advancement, upon the accession of this
prince, in 1727, to the throne of England, as George the Second.
      98
                   MEMOIR OF GOVERNOR BELCHER.
                                                                                    ^
On his return he married and settled in Boston, where he be-
came a merchant of great reputation and considerable wealth.
His wife was a daughter of Lieutenant-Governor Partridge, of
New Hampshire. She died on the istof October, 1736. He
was appointed a member of the Provincial Council, and in 1729
he was sent to England as agent of the Province and on the             ;




29th of November of the same year he was made Governor of
Massachusetts and of New Hampshire, which office he held for
twelve years. Upon becoming Governor he relinquished his
mercantile pursuits and devoted himself to his official duties.
His home was distinguished for its elegant hospitality, and he
issaid to have impaired his private fortune in upholding the

dignity of his office, of which, both in Massachusetts and in
New Jersey, he had a very high estimate.
     We learn from President Quincy's " History of Cambridge
University" that Governor Belcher, as Governor Burnet had
done before him, made a formal and public visit to Harvard.
Of this visit the President gives the following account                     :




     " The visit of Governor Belcher to the
                                              College appears, according to the records,
to   have been attended with like ceremonies.       He was, on the gih of September,
1730, accompanied to Cambridge by a 'military troop, then waited on by two com-
panies of foot.'When he arrived at the College, after having been for a while in
Mr. Flynt's chamber, the bell tolled, and the scholars assembled in the Hall, into
which the Governor and Corporation having entered, Mr. Hobby made a Latin
oration, and his Excellency made a very handsome answer in Latin.       This done,
and his Excellency the Governor, his Majesty's Council, the Tutors, Professors, and
sundry gentlemen, who came on the occasion, dined together in the library, with
the Corporation.
     " These forms and
                         ceremonies, of the last and preceding age," adds President
           " are
Quincy,          interesting as characteristic of the customs and manners of Massa-
chusetts under the Colonial and Provincial Governments."


     The " History of the College of New Jersey" furnishes ex-
amples of somewhat similar ceremonies, on occasions of the
first visits    made to the College by the Colonial Governors.
     On the death of President Wadsworth, of Harvard, which
occurred on the i6th of March, 1737, the other members of the
Corporation were equally divided in opinion as to the proper
                                                           of
person to be chosen his successor, one half being in favor
electing the Rev. Mr. Holyoke, a minister of Marblehead, and
IO Q    HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY*.

the other half being for the Rev. Joshua Gee, whom President
Quincy describes as a man of considerable genius, not deficient
in learning, holding all the peculiar doctrines of Calvin with a

bigoted pertinacity, and naturally of a fiery zeal, which, if it
had not been quenched by constitutional indolence, would
probably have rendered him a firebrand among the churches.
Perhaps this description of a rigid Calvinistic divine, by one of
such  liberal views in matters of religion as President Quincy,
should be taken cum grano sails. Still, it may be sufficiently
near the mark to account for Governor Belcher's influence being
finally cast in favor of Mr. Holyoke, of whose thorough Calvin-
ism some of the stricter sort stood in doubt, without ascribing
the Governor's course "to the tact of a politician, who saw
clearly that the times of denunciation and exclusion were fast
passing away," and who was satisfied, or willing to appear to be
convinced, upon the sole authority of Barnard" (also a minister
                                                                      "
of Marblehead, and an intimate friend of Holyoke),                        although
the terms in which he vouched for the Calvinism of Holyoke
placed his Catholicism and liberality in high relief, and con-
veyed a severe sarcasm on those who were counteracting his
election   by scattering doubts concerning the soundness of his
principles."  Upon hearing Mr. Barnard's account of the char-
acter and religious views of Mr. Holyoke, Governor Belcher said,
"Then I believe he must be the man."                    "And accordingly,"
adds President Quincy, "he was the man, and was elected in
both Boards* unanimously." This statement shows at once
the sound judgment of his Excellency, his freedom from undue
bias, and his great influence, at that time, in shaping the meas-
ures of the authorities of Harvard.
  Governor Belcher presided at the inauguration of President
Holyoke, and also on this occasion made a speech in Latin, in
the course of which he delivered to the President the charter,
key, etc. The President replied in Latin.  Governor Belcher's


  * The Boards referred to above were the Corporation, consisting of the President
and six Fellows, whose privilege it was to nominate the officers of the College, and
the Board of Overseers, consisting of the Governor, Deputy-Governor, members of
the Council, and others, who had the power to confirm or to reject.
                 MEMOIR OF GOVERNOR BELCHER.                 IOI

course with respect to the University was such as naturally
tended to gratify the friends of the institution generally; and
had he been equally fortunate in pleasing the supporters and
opponents of his administration, he might possibly have held
the government during life.     But his insisting, as his prede-
cessors had done, that a sufficient and fixed salary for the sup-

port of the Governor should be voted by the General Court,
and  his opposition to a measure known as "the land bank

company," helped to undermine his influence and to prepare
the way for his removal.    As the representative of the King, he
was not indisposed to exercise all the authority given him in his
commission and in deciding upon the course he ought to pursue
             ;



in reference to measures bearing upon the honor of the Crown,
the welfare of the Province, or the interests of religion and
learning, he was not distrustful of his own judgment, although
as to particular points he deemed it prudent to avail himself of
the opinions of others whose position, ability, and good sense
commanded his respect and confidence; and sometimes, though
not always, he yielded his own judgment to theirs. In religion
he was a decided Calvinist; also an ardent friend to revivals,
and a favorite of those engaged in promoting them. That emi-
nent evangelist, the Rev. George Whitefield, was most kindly
received by him, both in Massachusetts and in New Jersey.
   His freedom in the utterance of his opinions was very marked,
and not always the most discreet; and this is said to have been
one and a principal cause of the hostility against him on the
part of those who succeeded in their efforts to have him re-
moved from his office as Governor of Massachusetts and New
Hampshire.
  That he had been misrepresented by his political enemies,
he gave to King's Council, at the English Court, such clear
evidence that he was promised the first vacancy in the guber-
natorial chairs of the American Provinces; and happily for the
interests of the country, and more especially for the interests of
sound learning and fervent piety, this first vacancy occurred in
the Province of New Jersey, in which, at this very time, efforts
were making to establish the institution ever since known as
"
    The College of New Jersey," although it is not unfrequently
I02       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
                                                "                            "
spoken of under the names of                        Princeton College" and       Nassau
Hall."

  Upon being superseded by Governor Shirley, in 1741, Gov-
ernor Belcher went to England, and did not return to America
until the summer of 1747, when he came back with the commis-
sion of Captain-General and Governor of the Province of New

Jersey, etc.            The date of his commission was that of July 18,
1746, and it was approved in Council August 22 of that same
year; but such appear to have been the straitened circum-
stances of the Governor at this time, that he was unable for

many months to pay the requisite fees and for the funds with
                                                           ;



which they were paid he was indebted to the liberality of sundry
persons, members of the Society of Friends, in England.
   Sailing from England in the Scarborough, an English vessel
of war, he arrived here on the 8th of August, 1747, after a
tedious passage of nearly ten weeks; and, as mentioned by him
in a letter of the i6th of September, to a friend in London

(Rev. Mr.  Bradbury), he was received by the people with all
possible appearance  of respect and satisfaction. In this letter
he also speaks of putting forward the building of a college,
and in a letter to the Committee of the West Jersey Society of
London he says:
  " The
         people of New Jersey are in a poor situation for educating their children,
and the project for a college had been started before my arrival, and where it
should be placed was a matter of dispute between the gentlemen of East and West
Jersey, but I have got them to agree upon Princeton."


     And in a letter of October 2, of the same year, he says, to
another friend (Mr. Walley)                 :




     " Princeton   is   fixed   upon for the site of the College, and such a nursery for
religion and learning is much wanted."


     We are not to infer from these statements that there was any
formal vote or agreement among the friends of the College that
itshould be permanently established at Princeton, but that those
of them with whom the Governor conversed had intimated to
him a willingness to accede to his suggestion, "if," to use an
expression common in ecclesiastical parlance, "the way should
be clear."
                 NOTICES OF THE TRUSTEES.                        lo ^

    For ten years Governor Belcher administered, with great
ability and much to the satisfaction of the people generally, the
government of this Province. The disturbances existing before
his coming were quelled by his mild and conciliatory course,
and he had the esteem and encouragement of the friends of
evangelical piety and sound learning in his efforts to place upon
a firm foundation the College which, to use his own expression,
"
    he had adopted as a daughter."
  Governor Belcher was the first to follow the notable example
set by acting Governor John Hamilton, in granting a charter,
with the consent of Council, without any reference to the As-
sembly, and without waiting for any special instructions from
the English Court. (See chapter i., page 45.) In this respect,
Hamilton first, and Belcher next, in boldness and consummate
judgment, went beyond the much-lauded measure of Governor
Dudley, of -Massachusetts, in prompting and approving the
declaration by the General Court of that Province in 1707, that
the act of 1650, respecting Harvard College, having never been
repealed, was to be deemed the law governing that institution,
and thus secured its perpetuity and its freedom from further
interference by the Crown, which had annulled its charters,

granted subsequently to that act. The example of President
Hamilton was followed not only by Governor Belcher, but by
other of the Provincial Governors, as in the cases of King's
College, New York City Dartmouth College, New Hampshire
                            ;                                           ;




Queen's College, New Jersey; which were all, in a measure at
least, indebted for their       existence to these precedents of 1746
and of 1748.
    Of the Rev. Jonathan Dickinson, and of the Rev. Aaron
Burr, Trustees of the College under the first charter, memoirs
will be given in connection with the narratives of their admin-
istrations as Presidents of the College.
    The Rev. John Pierson, a Trustee under both charters, was
pastor of the Presbyterian church in Woodbridge, Middlesex
County, New Jersey. He was a graduate of Yale in 1711, and
was a son of the Rev. Abraham Pierson, the first rector or
President of that College; and he was the maternal grand-
father of the Rev. Dr. Ashbel Green, the eighth President of
I04        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

the College of New Jersey.      Mr. Pierson was the Moderator
of the Synod of New Jersey in 1749.
  The Rev. John Pemberton, D.D., also known to be a Trustee
under both charters, was graduated at Harvard College in 1721.
His father, of the same name, was at this time minister of
the South Church, Boston. Dr. Pemberton, the Trustee, was
pastor of the Presbyterian church in the city of New York
from 1727 until 1753 or 1754, when he removed to Boston
and took charge of a church in that city. In 1746 he was the
Moderator of the Synod of New York. He died on the 9th of
September, 1777, at the age of seventy-two years. It was only
during his residence in New York that he held the position of
Trustee.
     The Hon. John Reading, the first person named as a Trustee
in   Governor Belcher's   charter,   was a resident of Hunterdon
County, and the senior member of the Governor's Council at
the time this charter was given and upon the death of Gov-
                                     ;



ernor Belcher he became the acting Governor of the Province,
as he      had been for nearly a year before Governor Belcher's
arrival.
  Hon. James Hude, a native of Scotland, emigrated to this
country while yet a young man, and made New Brunswick the
place of his residence.  He took an active part in the erection
of the First Presbyterian Church in that city, of which church
he was an elder during the pastorate of the Rev. Mr. Arthur.
Mr. Hude was for some time Mayor of New Brunswick, and at
the time of his appointment as Trustee of the College he was
a member of Governor Belcher's Council.
     Hon. Andrew Johnston was a resident of Perth Amboy, an
attendant at the Episcopal church of that city, a member of
Governor Belcher's Council, Treasurer of East Jersey, and was
the first person chosen Treasurer of the College.
     Both Mr. Hude and Mr. Johnston were members of the Pro-
vincial Council when the Honorable John Hamilton, President
of the Council, gave the first charter, and it is quite probable
that they were Trustees of the College under that charter also.

(See page 47.)
     Hon. Thomas Leonard was a member of Governor Belcher's
                           NOTICES OF THE TRUSTEES.                       IO r

Council, a resident of Princeton, and a gentleman of wealth
and influence. He laid the corner-stone of " Nassau Hall."
  The Leonards of New Jersey were of English origin, and
they were descended from a family of that name settled at
Raynham, Massachusetts, in 1652.                    At this place they intro-
duced the first forge set up in America, and in 1797 it was in the
                                                 The Leonards
possession of this family of the sixth generation.
were remarkable for their longevity, promotion to public office,
a hereditary attachment to the manufacture " of iron, and kind-
                                    "
ness to the Indians."                   Of the great ages attained by this
family,   it   is       stated that in    1793 it was known that one had
died aged one hundred, two over ninety seventeen over eigJity,
                                                       ',




fifty-three over seventy-three. Thirteen had been graduated at
Cambridge."*
  King Philip's hunting-house stood a mile and a quarter from
the forge, and Philip and the Leonards lived on such friendly
terms that as soon as the war of 1675 broke out, which ended
in the death of the King and in the ruin of his tribe, "he issued
strict   orders to all his Indians never to hurt the Leonards."*
As early as 1721, Mr. Leonard was a member of the Assembly
of New Jersey, from Somerset County; and he died in 1760.
  The Hon. John Kinsey, the next in the list of Trustees, was,
at the date of the charter, Chief Justice of Pennsylvania.               He
was a member of the Society of Friends. In the preparation
of this instrument Governor Belcher sought his advice, and
he placed it in his hands for revision before submitting it to
the Attorney-General of New Jersey for his approval.                  At the
earnest desire of Governor Belcher, Chief-Justice Kinsey con-
tinued to serve as a Trustee.
  He was            a              and upon coming to this
                         native of England,

country settled first in           New Jersey.
                                      In 1716 he was a repre-
sentative to the Provincial Assembly from Middlesex County,
and the same year, and for several years in immediate succes-
sion, he was chosen Speaker of this body; and again in 1730
and 1733. From New Jersey he removed to Philadelphia, where
he was elected a             member of the Pennsylvania Assembly, of

                              * Morse's American Gazetteer.
    VOL. i.    8
I0 6     HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

which he was the Speaker for several sessions.        (See Elmer's
"
    Reminiscences.")
     David Paul Brown, author of the " Forum and Bar," speaks
of Mr. Kinsey as being for some years, with Andrew Hamilton,
the only great lawyer in the Province.    In the case of the Rev.
Wm. Tennent, tried for perjury, Mr. Kinsey was associated
with Mr. Wm. Smith, of New York, and with Mr. John Coxe,
of New Jersey, as counsel for the defence.
     A few years after the establishment of the Court of Chancery
in Pennsylvania by Governor Sir W. Keith, he caused Mr.
Kinsey's hat to be taken off by an officer of the court, whilst
Mr. K. was attending to some business before him as Chancel-
lor.  This gave great offence to the Quakers, and, although they
were afterwards allowed .to wear their hats, the court itself was
soon after entirely set aside. (See Field's "Provincial Courts"
and Proud's " History of Pennsylvania.")
   In 1738, Mr. Kinsey was Attorney-General of Pennsylvania,
and in 1743 he was made Chief Justice of that Province: this
latter office he retained until his death, which occurred at

.Burlington, New Jersey, in May, 1750.
   In writing to Mr. Richard Partridge, then in    London, Gov-
ernor Belcher, in a letter of the date of April 22, 1748, says of
             "
Mr. Kinsey, He is the next man in honor and power to the
Governor of Pennsylvania."      And again, in writing to the same
                                            "
gentleman, in    November, 1750, he says,       My friend Kinsey is
dead."
  Hon. Edward Shippen was by profession a merchant, but in
1749 he was made a Judge of the Common Pleas, and also of
the Orphans' Court and Quarter Sessions, of Philadelphia. He
had for his associates on the bench Franklin, Lawrence, and
Maddox. (See Brown's " Forum.")
  He was evidently a man of note and influence, and took an
active part in promoting the interests of the College.   Owing
to his advanced age, he resigned his place at the Board in 1767.
  His son, Edward Shippen, was for some years Chief Justice
of the State of Pennsylvania and his younger son, Joseph
                                ;



Shippen, a graduate of the College in 1753, was Secretary of
the Province of Pennsylvania. Judge Shippen was a scholarly
                               NOTICES OF TfJE TRUSTEES.                              1O j

man, and occasionally corresponded with his sons in the Latin
and French languages.
  Hon. Wm. Smith was an eminent lawyer of New York City.
He was born in Buckinghamshire, England, in 1696, and emi-
grated to America in 1715.                       He was graduated at Yale Col-
lege in 1719, and was a Tutor in the same from 1722 to 1724.
In 1736 he was made Recorder of the city of New York, and
subsequently a member of the King's Council, and also a Judge
of the Supreme Court of the Province.    Of the part he took
in the Zenger trial for libel, and of the                         consequences to him-
self       and to      James Alexander, Esq., mention was
                          his friend
made in the first chapter of this work but nothing is there   ;



said of the grounds of the exceptions taken by them to the

competency of the court to try the case.                           They were these    :




   " I. Because the commission was
                                     granted during pleasure, whereas it ought to
be granted during good behavior.
   " 2. That the commission was
                                granted by a Justice of the Common Pleas, whereas
it could only be granted
                         by a Judge of the King's Bench.
   "    That the form of the commission was not warranted      law.
      3.                                                            by
  "        It appears      that the   commission was allowed by William Cosby, Esq., Gov-
      4.
ernor of the Colony, and without the advice or consent of his Majesty's Council
of this Colony, without which the Governor could not grant the same.
  "When these exceptions were offered to the Court, April 15, 1735, the Chief
Justice said to Messrs. Alexander and Smith that they ought well to consider the
consequences of what they offered ; to which they answered, they had well con-
sidered the consequences ; and Mr. Smith further said, that he was so well satisfied
of the right of the subject to take an exception to the commission of a judge, if
he thought such commission illegal, that he durst venture his life upon that point.
  " The next       Mr. Smith asked to be heard     the Court on these two
                     day                                 by                       points   :



  " I. Whether the
                    subject has the right to take such exceptions.
  " 2. That the
                exceptions were legal and valid.
  " To which the Chief
                         Justice said, That they would neither hear nor allow the
                                      '



                       and that either we must go from the bench or you from the bar.
                                                                                               ?


exceptions ;     .    .    .



   "
     Accordingly, by order of the Court, they were excluded from any further
                                                         '


                         "         Brown's  "
practice in this Court.'     (See             Forum," pp. 287, 288.)
   " In
        1754, with the aid of Messrs. James Alexander, P. V. B. and W. Livingston,
and J. Morin         Scott, he raised     600 to buy books to lend to the people, which led
                                                                             " Life of Lord
to the establishment of the            New York Society Library."    (Duer's
Stirling.")

      The following obituary notice of Mr. Smith appeared in the
"New York Gazette," November 22, 1769:
  " Last
             Wednesday morning departed this life, in the seventy-third year of his
Io g       HISTOKY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

age, the Honorable Wm. Smith, Esq., one of the Justices of the Supreme Court,
and late one of his Majesty's Council for this province. He was born in England,
and arrived here in 1715. He practised the law with great reputation, and was
esteemed one of the most eminent in his profession. In 1753 he was made one of
his Majesty's Council, which office he afterwards resigned, and in the year   1763 he
was made one of the Judges of the Supreme Court. He was a gentleman of great
erudition, and was the most eloquent speaker in the province. He was of an amiable
and exemplary life and conversation, and a zealous and inflexible friend to the
cause of religion and liberty."


     Peter Van Brugh Livingston, Esq., was an eminent merchant
in the city ofNew York, and a man of great public spirit. He
was a son of Philip Livingston, of Livingston Manor, and the
eldest brother of Governor Livingston, of New Jersey.       He
was graduated  at Yale in 1731.  He  married        a
                                             Mary, daughter
of James Alexander, above mentioned.      In the latter part of
his life he removed to Elizabeth, New Jersey, in the vicinity
of which he purchased a farm, that has remained in possession
of his family ever since, the present proprietor being John
Kean, Esq.
   Wm. Peartree Smith was the grandson of Win. Smith,
Governor-General of the island of Jamaica, who was married
at Port Royal to Frances Peartree, and who died at New York

April 2, 1/14, leaving two sons, the younger of whom, Wil-
liam, was the father of William Peartree Smith, who was born
in   New York in 1723.            He was graduated at Yale College in
1742, and studied law, but did not engage in the practice of it,
finding sufficient employment in attending to his own estate
and in promoting useful objects.               Governor Belcher, as early
as 1748, speaks of him as his correspondent in New York, and
as being "a very worthy and religious young man."   The fam-
ily was     one of much taste and refinement.               He married Mary
Bryant, daughter of Captain Bryant, of Amboy, and left one
daughter, the wife of the Hon. Elisha Boudinot, and one son,
Wm. Pitt Smith, M.D.              Ten other children died in early life.
He joined Cummings, Livingston, and Scott in publishing the
"Watch-Tower," in the city of New York, in 1755. He was
an ardent patriot, and took a great interest in the struggle be-
tween the Provinces and the mother-country, and lost much of
                                                                      "
his property by the depreciation of the currency.                         He was,"
                           NOTICES OF THE TRUSTEES.
                                                                   IO9
                             "
says Dr. Hatfield,    one of the most distinguished civilians
of the day."   Upon  the  marriage of his daughter he removed
to Elizabethtown, New Jersey, and while
                                           living there he was
arrested by the British and taken to New York, and, had it not
been for the interposition of his numerous friends in that city,
would have been sent to the prison-ship. He resigned his
place at the Board in 1793, having been for at least forty-five
years a trustee of the College. He died in 1801.
  Samuel Hazard, Esq., was the second son of Nathaniel Haz-
ard, a merchant of New York.      He removed to Philadelphia,
and continued to reside there. He had two sons, one of whom,
Ebenezer Hazard, a graduate of Nassau Hall, succeeded Mr.
Bache as Postmaster-General of the United States.
   Mr. Hazard, the Trustee, and Mr. Robert Smith, the Archi-
tect, were a committee to select the site for Nassau Hall.
   Of the Rev. John Pierson and the Rev. Ebenezer Pem-
berton, the first two ministers of the gospel named in the
second charter, mention was made above as being Trustees
under the first charter.
   The next in order is the Rev. Joseph Lamb. He was grad-
uated at Yale in 1 7 17, and was ordained by the Presbytery of
Long Island, and installed pastor of Mattituck. Being called
to Baskingridge, May, 1744, he joined the New Brunswick Pres-

bytery.   He was the Moderator of the Synod of New York in
1748, his predecessors in that office being, Jonathan Dickinson,
1745 Ebenezer Pemberton, 1746; Gilbert Tennent, 1747. Mr.
       ;



Lamb died in July, 1749.
    The Rev. Gilbert Tennent and the Rev. William Tennent were
born       in   Ireland,   and came to America with   their father, the
Rev. William Tennent, Senior, September, 1716.            Their father
accepted a call to Neshaminy in 1726, at which place he estab-
                                 "
lished the famous Log College,     at which," says Whitefield,
"
  eight ministers trained by him were sent out before the autumn
of 1739. Of these, four were his own sons." As frequent men-
tion will be elsewhere made in this history of these two distin-

guished and devoted servants of Christ, and our object being
mainly to identify, as far as can be done, the first Trustees
under each of the two College charters, we shall merely state
IIO       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

in this    connection that the Rev. Gilbert Tennent, D.D., was
first                                               New Bruns-
        settled as pastor of the Presbyterian church at

wick, in 1726, and removed to Philadelphia in 1744, where he
had charge of the Second Presbyterian Church until his death,
in January, 1764.        He was an eloquent preacher, and an earnest
controversialist, both         in   the pulpit and out of      it,   making   a
liberal use of the press in          maintaining his       own opinions, and
in attacking, and       not always in the mildest terms, the opinions
of those from whom he differed.          He was beyond question the
leading     man among his brethren of the Presbytery of New
Brunswick not to say of the Synod of New York after the
death of Mr. Dickinson.
   Of Dr. Gilbert Tennent, and also of his father and three
brothers, William, Jr., John, and Charles, interesting memoirs
                                   "
are given in Dr. A. Alexander's      History of the Log Col-
lege."
  The Rev. William Tennent, Jr., was ordained by the Pres-
bytery of Philadelphia in October, 1733, and succeeded His
younger brother, John Tennent, as pastor of the Freehold
           church, now known as the Tennent Church,
Presbyterian
Monmouth County, New Jersey. On different occasions he
was chosen pro          tem. President of the College.          A sketch of
his life, recording several extraordinary incidents, was published
                                       "
by Hon. Elias Boudinot, LL.D., in The Assembly's Mission-
ary Magazine" of 1806.
  The accuracy of this sketch with respect to some matters
connected with Mr. William Tennent's trial, on the charge of
perjury in the case of Mr. Roland, before Chief-Justice Robert
Hunter Morris, has been called in question by two such emi-
nent lawyers as Judge R. S. Field and Chancellor H. W. Green,
who, in the opinion of the writer, have made good the excep-
tions taken by them to some of the details. Chancellor Green's

paper was published in the "Princeton Review" for 1868, and
                           "
Judge Field's in the           Proceedings of the New Jersey Historical
Society," vol. vi.
  The errors in the narrative of the               trial  can be readily ac-
counted      for, if   we bear in mind      that   it   was written between
 sixty and seventy years after the trial took place,                 and about
                 NOTICES OF THE TRUSTEES.                        1 l r




thirty years after Mr. Tennent's decease;      and further, that the
incidents mentioned were given upon the authority of persons
who had no personal knowledge of any of the facts, and whose
belief in the truthfulness of what they had heard respecting the
trialrested solely upon mere traditions, in which the facts were
so intermingled with wrong deductions from them as to give to
the entire narrative an air of fiction.    If all the incidents, both
those known and those unknown to the author of the narrative,
had been given in their proper order, there would have been no
difficulty in showing that they were such as might have oc-
curred in the usual course of divine providence, without re-
quiring any supernatural interposition through the medium of
dreams.   Granting that two of the witnesses had the very
dreams they are reported to have had, it is far more likely that
the dreams were in consequence of what they had previously
heard respecting the bills of indictment found against Mr. Ten-
nent and Mr. Stevens, than that their first information on the
subject was derived from the dreams; which, indeed, is not
directly affirmed, but is left to be inferred from the manner in
which they are introduced into the narrative. The trial took
place in June, 1742, ten months after the indictment, and of
course there was ample time to summon all the witnesses
required in the case.
  There is another objection to the narrative, inasmuch as it
exalts Mr. Tennent's piety at the expense of his judgment, the

right exercise of which would have led him, contrary to what is
said in the narrative, to employ every lawful means within his
reach to meet the unjust and cruel charge brought against
him, and from which he was triumphantly vindicated by the
testimony adduced at the trial and by the verdict of the jury.
   The Rev. Richard Treat, D.D., was born in Milford, Con-
necticut, September 25, 1705, and was a descendant or near
relative of Governor Robert Treat.        He was graduated at Yale
in 1725, and was ordained by the Presbytery of Philadelphia,
and installed pastor of the church of Abington, December 30,
1731.   But upon the division in the Synod of Philadelphia, by
which the Presbytery of New Brunswick and their adherents
were excluded from the Synod, he joined this Presbytery, of
II2     HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

which he was an influential member.              He died November 20,
1778.
   Rev. Samuel Blair was born in Ireland, June 14, 1712; he
came to this country while yet a lad. He pursued his studies
at the "Log College," and was licensed November, 1733, at

Abington, by the Philadelphia Presbytery.             He accepted a call
to Middletown and Shrewsbury, New Jersey, and was ordained

by the East Jersey Presbytery in 1734.            At the earnest invita-
tion of the people at Fagg's   Manor, Pennsylvania, he removed
to that place, and was installed pastor of their church in April,

1740. Here he established a classical and theological school,
which under his wise and skilful guidance, and that of his
brother, the Rev. John Blair, his successor at Fagg's Manor,
rose to be an institution of much note.  He died July 5, 1751.
The Rev. Samuel Davies, in writing to the Rev. Dr. Bellamy,
says, "The greatest light in these parts is just about to take
                                    "
wing." (See Rev. R. Webster's History.")
  Rev. David Cowell was born in Dorchester, Massachusetts,
in 1704, and was graduated at Harvard in 1732.      He was
ordained by the Presbytery of Philadelphia, November 3, 1736,
and  installed pastor of the church at Trenton.              He was an
ardent and devoted friend of the College, and had   much to do
in placing Mr. Davies in the presidency of that institution. To
                   "
Mr. D. he wrote,   I am sensible that your leaving Virginia is

attended with great difficulties, but I cannot think your affairs
are of equal importance with the College."
     He died December    I, 1760, and his funeral sermon            was
                                                     "
preached by President     Davies, who said of him,     In            the
charter of the College of New Jersey he was nominated one
of the Trustees, and but few invested with the same trust dis-
charged it with so much zeal, diligence, and alacrity ;" adding,
"
  The College of New Jersey has lost a father, and I have lost
                                        "
a friend."   (See Rev. Dr. Hall's           History of the First Church,
Trenton.")
  He was the only member of the Synod of Philadelphia whose
name appears in the charter for, although Drs. Tennent and
                               ;



Treat resided in Pennsylvania, they were members of the Synod
of New York.
                     NOTICES OF THE TRUSTEES.                          XI ^


  Rev. Timothy Johnes, D.D., was of Welsh descent, and was
born     at    South Hampton, Long Island, New York, May 24,
1717.         He was graduated at Yale in 1/37. He was ordained
February 9, 1743, and was pastor of the church at Morristown
until his death,      September, 1794, at the age of seventy-eight
years.        In 1783 he received from Yale the degree of Doctor in
Divinity.
  Rev. Thomas Arthur was graduated at Yale in 1743, and was
ordained by the Presbytery of New York in 1746, and settled as
pastor of the Presbyterian church at New Brunswick, at which
                                                                 "
place he died, February 2, 1751, aged twenty-seven.      He was
a good scholar, a graceful orator, and a finished preacher."
  Rev. Jacob Green was born at Maiden, Massachusetts, Jan-
uary 22, 1723.        He was graduated at Harvard in 1744.             He
came to New Jersey, and was ordained and installed at Hanover
in 1746.
  On the 22d of November, 1758, he was chosen Vice-President
of the College pro        tcin.,   and   for   six   months discharged the
duties pertaining to the office of President.
  He was father of the Rev. Dr. Ashbel Green, the eighth
                        He was a member of the Provincial
President of the College.
Congress of New  Jersey of 1776, and the chairman of the
committee that prepared the first Constitution of the State.
  In the second charter the names of the lay Trustees appear
to be inserted in the order of their rank, if they held office,
and of their age or social position, if not in office. Hence the
names of the members of the Governor's Council are given
first. Then occur the names of Chief-Justice Kinsey and Judge
Shippen, of Pennsylvania.   The name of William Smith, the
distinguished attorney  and counsellor of New York, comes
next.   He was not made a judge till 1763. After him are
named Peter V. B. Livingston, William    Peartree Smith, and
Samuel Hazard, in order of age, most probably.
  The names of the clergy are given according to the dates of
their respective ordinations.
                        CHAPTER V.
THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. JONATHAN DICKINSON,
   FIRST PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.


  IN the Introduction to this work it has been         made to appear
that the College owed its origin mainly to the foresight and
efforts of the Rev. Messrs. Dickinson, Pierson, Pemberton, Burr,

and their coadjutors.
  The first named of these eminent and good men was the one
selected by his associates to take the oversight of their infant

seminary of learning.
  In the triennial catalogue of the College, Mr. Dickinson is
spoken of as President in 1746; but this is an error, and it
arose from confounding the date of the first charter with the
time when Mr. Dickinson was chosen President of the College,
which most probably took place in April, 1747, and certainly
not before February of that year. For on the 2d of February,
O. S., corresponding to the   1
                                  3th of February, N. S., the Trus-
teesannounced to the public that a charter for a College had
been granted to them, and that the College would be opened
some time in May next, at the latest     ;
                                             but in this their first ad-
vertisement they make no mention of the choice of a President,
nor of the location of the College.In their next public notice,
of the date of April 27, 1747, they say that "the Trustees of
the College of New Jersey have appointed the Rev. Jonathan
Dickinson President of said College, which" (they add) " will
be opened in the fourth week of May next, at Elizabethtown.
At which Time and Place all Persons suitably qualified may
be admitted to an Academic Education."
  That the first term of the College began at the time here
specified there canbe no reasonable doubt and the evidence
                                                   ;


adduced shows that the charter under which Mr. Dickinson
       114
    ADMINISTRATION OF REV. JONATHAN DICKINSON,
                                                                          n^
conducted the instruction and the government of the College
was in full force until it was superseded by the one given by
Governor Belcher in 1748.*
  Within one year from the opening of the College there were
several students ready to receive their first degree in the Arts.
And this fact renders it morally certain that some of these can-
didates, if not all, had. been in training under the supervision
and instruction of President Dickinson. As just mentioned,
the first term began in the fourth week of May, 1747.        Mr.
Dickinson died on the 7th of October of the same year. The
third Wednesday of May, 1748,       was the day selected for the
first   Commencement     and had it taken place at that time the
                           ;



first graduates of the College of New
                                         Jersey would have been
admitted to their Bachelor's degree under the charter given by
President Hamilton in 1746.      But Governor Belcher, desirous
that they should receive this honor from himself and the gen-
tlemen to be associated with him as Trustees under the charter
which he was then preparing, requested that the Commence-
ment might be deferred for a fortnight, in order that he might
have it in his power to attend the Commencement, and to
deliver the new charter to the Trustees on that occasion.    The
promised charter was not ready at the time the Governor ex-
pected, and a further delay occurred in the holding of the first
Commencement. And when the charter prepared under the
direction of Governor Belcher was ready to be delivered to the
Trustees therein named, it did not prove to be in all respects
satisfactory to the leading friends of the College. It was there-
fore altered, and it passed the seal of the Province a second
time on the I4th of September, 1748; and this delay in the
preparation of the second charter occasioned a still further
postponing of the Commencement, which finally took place at
Newark on the 9th of November of that year, when the ex-
pectant candidates received their deferred honors. From the
above statement it is evident that these first graduates are to
be regarded as foster-sons of the College under the first charter
rather than under the second, and as connected with the ad-


           * See extracts from the Governor's letters on
                                                           pages 82-84.
H6             HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

ministration of President Dickinson as well as with                  that   of
President Burr.
   Of the course of study or of the number of pupils during
Mr. Dickinson's administration, so far as is now known, there
is no official record, nor is there any memorandum of these

matters by any person conversant with the condition of the
College at that time. With respect to the number of students
during the presidency of Mr. Dickinson, different estimates
have been made but, as they can be little else than mere con-
                         ;




jectures, they hardly call for particular consideration.
   From the well-known ability and learning of the President,
and from the character of the prominent gentlemen associated
with him, there can be no doubt that they sought to establish
a curriculum which would compare well with those of the older

colleges and further, it is certain beyond all question, that in
                ;




ordering the course of instruction they had a special reference
to the training of young           men for the gospel ministry.           Not
only was this their avowed object and their strongest induce-
ment to engage in this enterprise, but the catalogue of gradu-
ates shows that the first class consisted of six members, five of
whom became ministers of the gospel              ;
                                                     and that of the seven
graduates of the following year, five entered the ministry.
Another of the seven, of whose professional pursuits nothing
is   known, died about two years after leaving College.
                                             "
     It   is
              by Dr. Hatfield, in his
               said                    History of Elizabeth,"
that President Dickinson was assisted in the instruction of the
students by the Rev. Caleb Smith, a graduate of Yale College,
and that this gentleman was the first Tutor of the College of
New Jersey. It is quite probable that it was so although the
                                                           ;



evidence is not so complete as we could desire.                From a " Brief
Account of Mr. Smith," published in 1765, and within two or
three years after his decease, it appears that he was teaching at
Elizabeth, and pursuing his theological studies there under the
direction of Mr. Dickinson and that he was licensed to preach
                                  ;



the gospel            by the Presbytery of New York in          April,   1747,
which was about the time that Mr. Dickinson was chosen
President of the College.   If not formally appointed a Tutor

by the Trustees, he may   have  been, and most probably was,
       ADMINISTRATION OF REV. JONATHAN DICKINSON,
                                                                               nj
employed by the President under an authority given him by
the Trustees to engage for a limited time the services of a
competent assistant.    From what is known of Mr. Smith's
talents and scholarship, he must have been a very suitable
person for such a position. There is reason to believe that Mr.
Smith continued to reside at Elizabethtown after the decease
of Mr. Dickinson, until his ordination and settlement at Newark
Mountains, now Orange, in the autumn of 1748. Of the char-
acter of this early friend of the College, and of the important
services which he rendered to it, we hope to have an oppor-

tunity to speak more fully than we can in this connection.

  A BRIEF SKETCH OF THE LIFE AND LABORS OF PRESIDENT
                                  DICKINSON.*

      President Dickinson was born in Hatfield, Massachusetts, on
the 22d of April, 1688.    His father was Hezekiah Dickinson,
and his grandfather was Nathaniel Dickinson, one of the first
settlers of Wethersfield, Connecticut.     His mother was Abi-
gail, daughter of Samuel, and granddaughter of the Rev. Adam
Blackman, or Blakeman, the first minister of Stratford, Con-
necticut, and a graduate of the University of Oxford.
   Mr. Dickinson was graduated at Yale College in 1706, and
while there he was a pupil of the Rev. Abraham Pierson, the
first Rector or President of that institution, which was founded

in 1701 and incorporated in 1702, and to which the College of
New Jersey is indebted for the academic training of her first
three Presidents,   Dickinson, Burr, and Edwards.
   After leaving college, Mr. Dickinson engaged in the study
of theology, but under whose guidance we have no tradition.
He went to Elizabethtown in 1708. and his preaching was so
acceptable to the people of that place that he was invited to
become their pastor, and, accepting this invitation, he was or-
dained on Friday, the 29th of September, 1709. The services
on this occasion were performed by the ministers of Fairfield

  *  In preparing this sketch, the writer has freely availed himself of the labors
of Drs. Green, Sprague, Stearns, and of the Rev. Richard Webster; but more
                                        " President Dickinson's Life and
especially of the admirable sketch of                                      Labors,"
by the  Rev. Dr. Edwin  F. Hatfield, in  his " History of Elizabeth, New Jersey."
H8           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

County, Connecticut, who the year before had formed a con-
sociation according to the Saybrook Platform, and who on this
occasion were assisted by the pastors of some of the churches
in    New Jersey.
     At the time of his ordination and of his engaging in pastoral
labors Mr. Dickinson was not twenty-one years of age.

     "It was," says Dr. Hatfield, "a weighty charge to be laid on such youthful
shoulders.    And yet not too weighty, as the sequel proved. Quickly and diligently
he applied himself to his work, and his profiting presently appeared to all.   It   was
not long before he took rank among the first of his profession."


     Some months before his ordination, and while supplying the
pulpit of the church at Elizabethtown, he married Joanna Mel-
yen, daughter of Jacob Melyen, and sister of the Rev. Samuel
Melyen.        The father was one of the associates in the purchase
of the Elizabethtown tract, under Governor Nicolls's grant                     ;
                                                                                    the
brother was for two or three years pastor of the church of that
place prior to Mr. Dickinson's settlement there.*
     The church at Elizabethtown was originally Independent, and
conducted its affairs after the model of the Congregational
churches of New England. At the time Mr. Dickinson became
the pastor of this church it had been established about forty
years, and for several years after his settlement it continued to
be an Independent church.              But, influenced more or less by his

     * The
         family was from Holland, and Cornelis Melyn, the grandfather of Mrs.
Dickinson, was a patroon, or large landed proprietor, having obtained of the
Dutch Government a grant of Staten Island, which he afterwards relinquished to
the West India Company.
   Mr. and Mrs. Dickinson had nine children. Their youngest daughter, Martha,
was married to the Rev. Caleb Smith, of Newark Mountains, now Orange, and
their eldest to Jonathan Sergeant, the father of the Hon. Jonathan Dickinson Ser-

geant and the grandfather of the Hon. John Sergeant and of the Hon. Thomas
Sergeant, of Philadelphia, and also of Mrs. Sarah Sergeant Miller, wife of the Rev.
Dr. Samuel Miller, of Princeton.
   Mr. and Mrs. Smith's descendants are numerous, and several of them highly
distinguished in their respective callings. Among these are John C. Green, Esq.,
of New York, who has reared a noble monument to his eminent ancestor, in the
erection of Dickinson Hall, at Princeton, the      Hon. Henry M. Green, LL.D.,
late Chancellor of   New Jersey, and the Rev. William Henry Green, D.D., LL.D.,
Professor in the Princeton Theological Seminary, and who in the spring of 1868
was chosen President of the College, but declined the appointment.
   ADMINISTRATION OF REV. JONATHAN DICKINSON,                   ng
views and wishes, the members consented to change their form
of government, and placed themselves under the care of the Pres-
bytery of Philadelphia. This change probably occurred in the
spring of 1717, as in the autumn of that year Mr. Dickinson's
name is given in the list of members present at the meeting of
the Synod of Philadelphia, which held its first sessions in the
city of Philadelphia, in
                      September, 1717. Although it appears
from certain memoranda kept by the Presbytery that Mr. Dick-
inson was present and took part in the ordination of the Rev.
Robert Orr, on the 2Oth of October, 1715, yet there is no
reason to believe that he was at that time a          member of the
Presbytery, as his name does not appear in the list of members
at that meeting, or at any previous one.  He was also present
at the ordination of his friend the Rev. John Pierson, at Wood-

bridge, New Jersey, on the 2Qth of April, 1717; and, as he was
a member of the Synod in the following autumn, he was proba-
bly received as a regular member at the meeting held for Mr.
Pierson's ordination.
  The first Presbytery in this country, viz., that of Philadelphia,
was organized in 1705.    It increased rapidly, and in 1716 it re-

solved itself into a Synod, consisting of three Presbyteries, one
of them retaining the name of the Presbytery of Philadelphia.
Of this body Mr. Dickinson was a member until the formation
of the Presbytery of East Jersey, in 1 733.   This last-named Pres-
bytery comprised most if not all of the ministers in the east-
ern division of the Province, and to it was united, in 1738, the
small Presbytery of Long Island.      Upon the union of the two
they received the name of the Presbytery of New York and of ;



this Presbytery Mr. Dickinson was the leading member until
his decease, in the autumn of 1747.     It was as a   member of this
Presbytery that Mr. Dickinson took the prominent part men-
tioned in the Introduction to this work, in favor of establishing
a seminary of a high order for the education of candidates for
the holy ministry.
  Mr. Dickinson was held in great reverence by his brethren
in the sacred office.  He was twice chosen Moderator of the
Synod of Philadelphia,   once in 1721 and again in 1742, and
he was the first Moderator of the Synod of New York, organ-
12Q    HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

ized in 1745.  He was also from year to year a member of
the most important committees of the Synod. From choice a
Presbyterian, he was nevertheless not forgetful of his training
as an Independent, and he was altogether indisposed to coun-
tenance the assumption, by Presbytery or Synod, of any doubt-
ful power.   Hence, at the meeting of the Synod in 1721, he
drew up a protest against the action of the Synod in adopting
a certain measure which, he apprehended, would prepare the

way for the introduction of rules and regulations touching the
government and discipline of the Church, the enacting of which
by the Synod would, according to his view of the case, transcend
its legitimate powers as a Church court.   At the next meeting
of Synod, as Moderator of the previous one, he preached the
opening sermon, and in this discourse he took occasion to
define fully and clearly his own views in regard to the limits
of ecclesiastical authority. This full discussion of the subject
led to the withdrawal of the protest of the year before, and to
the presentation of a paper by Mr. Dickinson and his friends,
in which paper the true limits of Church power were so satis-

factorily exhibited thatit commanded the
                                         hearty approval of
the entire body, and its unanimous adoption called forth, on
the part of the Synod, to use the words of the minute, " a
thanksgiving prayer and joyful singing of the 13 3d Psalm."
  In the autumn of 1728 an overture was introduced into the
         "
Synod,        having reference to the subscribing of the [West-
minster] Confession of Faith, and proposing that every minister
and candidate should be required to give his hearty consent to
it."  Deeming this proposition to be one of grave importance,
the Synod deferred the consideration of it until the following
year.  In the mean while the overture was printed, and Mr.
Dickinson published an answer to it, although he was an earn-
est Calvinist and cordially assented to the  system of doctrine
set forth in the Confession    and the Catechisms of the West-
minster Assembly.    When this subject again came before the
Synod,    was
         it   referred to a committee, of which Mr. Dickinson
was a member. After an evidently careful survey of the whole
matter, the committee agreed upon a unanimous report, and
presented the overture with such alterations as secured for it
    ADMINISTRATION OF REV. JONATHAN DICKINSON.                     I2 i

the assent of the entire           Synod, with the exception of one
member, who declared that he was not prepared to vote. The
changes made in the overture are ascribed to the ground taken
by Mr. Dickinson, and the paper as adopted by the Synod is
                                      "
known, in the Presbyterian Church, as the Adopting Act''
  The record of this act is accompanied by the following
minute:  "The Synod, observing that unanimity, peace, and
unity which appeared in all their consultations and determina-
tions relating to the affair of the Confession, did unanimously

agree in giving thanks to God in solemn prayer and praises."
  It  was Mr. Dickinson's constant aim to promote harmony
among his brethren, and to engage them in earnest endeavors
for the advancement of sincere and fervent piety and of sound

learning.  He was a man of great practical wisdom, and of
untiring industry. These qualities, together with his learning
and piety, gave him a commanding influence in the Church and
in the community at large, and enabled him to accomplish the

great and good work which in the providence of God he was
called to do.
  He was an earnest advocate of missionary labor among the
Indians, and with hisyounger yet intimate friends, Messrs.
Pemberton and Burr, he made a successful appeal to the Hon-
orable Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge * in behalf
of the Indians on Long Island, in New Jersey, and in Penn-
sylvania.        The three who united in this appeal, and who were
afterwards united in other important labors, were appointed

correspondents of the Society, and they were authorized to
employ missionaries to instruct the Indians, in whose welfare
they had taken so deep an interest. The first missionary em-
ployed by them was the Rev. Azariah Horton the second, the   ;



Rev. David Brainerd, whose name is so dear to all friends of
Christian missions. From the time that Mr. Brainerd came to
New Jersey he was ever a welcome guest at the house of Mr.
Dickinson and their intimate friendship lasted till death.
             ;



  Mr. Dickinson was also an earnest advocate and defender of
revivals ; that     is   to say, of those remarkable religious excite-


                          * Formed at
                                        Edinburgh in 1709.
   VOL. I.   9
122          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

ments which from time to time have been witnessed              in the

churches of Christ, when the truth of God accompanied with
unusual power from on high has aroused the attention of the
hearers to the most serious and devout contemplation of their
spiritual condition, and has led them, sometimes in large num-
bers, to seek a vital union with Christ, if unconverted, or clearer
evidence of such union, if they are already one with Him,
through sanctification by the Holy Spirit and a belief of the
truth.
     It can therefore    occasion no surprise to learn that Mr. Dick-
inson was earnestly desirous that his own Church should share
in that wondrous outpouring of the Spirit which occurred in so

many of the churches in this country at the time of "the Great
Awakening," as the event here alluded to is commonly desig-
nated by the Revivalists and their friends of that day. His
prayers and his faithful labors were graciously and abundantly
rewarded.   Writing to Mr. Foxcroft, of Boston, September 4,
               "
1740, he says,   I have had more young people address me for

direction in their spiritual concerns in this three months than
                                                "
in thirty years before."    (See Dr. Hatfield's   History.") By
invitation of Mr. Dickinson,         Mr. Whitefield preached on two
different occasions at Elizabethtown.

     Although warmly in favor of revivals, Mr. Dickinson was not
indifferent to the abuses and errors
                                   sometimes connected with
them    and to guard his own people and others against these
         ;



errors, he prepared and published a discourse from the words,
"
    The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are
the children of God."         A second edition was published in 1743.
It was entitled
                   "
                       The Witness of the Spirit. A Sermon preached
at    Newark,    May 7, 1740."      It gave offence to some of the

friends of revivals ;      and even by the Tennents it was regarded
as being of a hurtful          tendency to the interests of   religion.

(See Webster's "History," pages 148 and 152.) Yet in the
estimation of the most sober-minded advocates of revivals,
the views entertained by Mr. Dickinson are in entire accord
with the teachings of the gospel.
  As a preacher, and as a theological writer, Mr. Dickinson
attained to great distinction. He was esteemed one of the best
            ADMINISTRATION OF REV. JONATHAN DICKINSON.                                           12 ^


    preachers in the Presbyterian Church, and the ablest defender
    of its doctrine and order.  Several of his works were repub-
    lished in Great Britain, and were much commended.
       The following is a list of his published works                         :




      1. In 1722.   The sermon already spoken of as preached before the Synod of
                    " Ecclesiastical
    Philadelphia on                  Jurisdiction."
      2. In 1724.
                   " A Defence of
                                   Presbyterian Ordination," published at Boston, being
    a reply to a pamphlet entitled "          A Modest Proof of the Order and Government
    settled by Christ and his Apostles in the Church."
                                                     This was followed by another
    from Mr. Dickinson's pen, both of which were afterwards revised, enlarged, and
    published by the author.
                   " An Answer to the Rev.
      3. In 1729.                          John Thomson's Overture urging the Synod
    to adopt by a Public           Agreement the Standards of the Church of Scotland."
    R. Webster.
      4.     In 1732.A work entitled " The Reasonableness of Christianity, in Four Ser-
    mons.      Wherein the Being and Attributes of God, the Apostasy of Man, and the
    Credibility of the Christian Religion are demonstrated by Rational Considerations,
    and the Divine Mission of our Blessed Saviour proved by Scripture Arguments,
    both from the Old Testament and the New," with a preface by Mr. Foxcroft, of
    Boston, and published in that city.
      Of these discourses the Rev. Dr. Hatfield makes these remarks                   "
                                                                                  :
                                                                                          They are ad-
    mirable discourses, learned, discriminating, and logical ; full of pith and power ;

    pointed and impressive.    Happy the people favored with the ministry of such a
    teacher    !
                   Happy the children whose early years were blessed with such instruc-
    tion!"
             In 1733.      " The                                                              Dr. Hat-
       5.                          Scripture Bishop vindicated," published at Boston.
-
    field.

       6.    In 1733.      A sermon preached at the funeral of Mrs. Ruth Pierson, the wife of
    his friend the Rev. John Piesson, of Woodbridge,           New Jersey, and daughter of the
    Rev. Timothy Woodbridge, of Hartford, Connecticut.             Printed at New York.    Dr.
    Green's " Notes."
                   " Remarks on a Letter to a Friend in the
      7. In 1735.                                           Country, containing the
    Substance of a Sermon preached at Philadelphia, in the Congregation of the
    Rev. Mr. Hemphill." Published September, 1735.
       8.    In 1736.      A sermon preached at Newark, Wednesday, June 2, 1736, and pub-
    lished with the title, " The Vanity of Human Institutions in the Worship of God."

       9.    In 1737.       A defence of this sermon.
       10.In February, 1737-38. A second defence of this sermon, entitled "The
    Reasonableness of Non-conformity to the Church of England in Point of Worship."
      11. In        His sermon on the " Witness of the
                   1740.                                      of which mention has
                                                                   Spirit,"

    already been made.
       12. In 1741.   "The True Scripture Doctrine concerning some Important Points
    of Christian Faith, particularly Eternal Election, Original Sin, Grace in Conversion,

    Justification by Faith, and tBfe Saint's Perseverance, represented
                                                                              and applied in Five
    Discourses."           This able work has been several times republished in this country
    and in Scotland.
 124
             HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
                       "
                  A Display of God's Special Grace, in a Familiar Dialogue be-
   13. In 1742.
tween a Minister and a Gentleman of his Congregation. About the Work of God
in the Conviction and Conversion of Sinners, so remarkably of late begun and

going on in these American Parts.           Wherein the Objections against some Uncom-
mon Appearances among us are distinctly considered, Mistakes rectified, and the
Work itself particularly proved to be from the Holy Spirit with one Addition, in a
                                                                 :




Second Conference, relating to Sundry Antinomian Principles beginning to obtain
in some Places."
   It was published first at Boston, and a second time at Philadelphia, in 1743.

The first edition was without the author's name, but with an attestation by the Rev.
Messrs. Coleman, Sewell, Prince, Webb, Cooper, Foxcroft, and Gee, all ministers
of Boston, and most of them men of note.
  The second edition appeared having the hearty commendation of the Rev.
Messrs. Gilbert and William Tennent, Samuel and John Blair, Treat, and Finley.
  Of this work Dr. Green, in his " Notes," observes that " no cotemporaneous
publication was probably so much read, or had as much influence."
     14.   In 1743.    "The Nature and Necessity of Regeneration, considered in a
Sermon from John iii. 3, preached at Newark, at a Meeting of the Presbytery there.
To which are added some Remarks on a Discourse of Dr. Waterland's, entitled and
explained according to Scripture Antiquity."
   Rev. Dr. Hatfield observes, " Dr. Waterland's book had been imported by
the Episcopal ministry, and circulated as an antidote to the revival doctrines of
Whitefield and his sympathizers.  Dickinson's drew forth, in 1744, from the
Rev. John Wetmore, rector of the parish church of Rye, New York, a defence
of Waterland's discourse on          '
                             Regeneration.'  This was answered promptly by
Mr. Dickinson."
  In 1745 he published his "Familiar Letters to a Gentleman, upon a Variety of
Seasonable and Important Subjects in Religion." A work of great ability, in which
the Evidences of Christianity, the Doctrine of God's Sovereign Grace in the Re-

demption of Men, the Way of Salvation, and the Dangers of Antinomianism are
fully set forth.      It has been   reprinted several times, both at home and abroad.   It

is   from a print in the Glasgow edition of this work that the portrait of President
Dickinson in the College collection of portraits, and the portraits of him in several
sketches of his life published in this country, were copied.
  In this same year he published his work entitled "            A
                                                               Vindication of God's
Sovereign Free Grace. In some Remarks upon Mr. J. Beach's Sermon, with some
Brief Reflections upon Mr. H. Caner's Sermon, and on a pamphlet entitled '              A
Letter from Aristocles to Anthades.'
                                     " This letter was from the
                                                                pen of the Rev.
Dr. Samuel Johnson, of Hartford, Connecticut.           This work called forth a reply by
Dr. Johnson, which induced Mr. Dickinson to prepare " A Second Vindication of
God's Sovereign Free Grace," which was published after his death by his brother,
the Rev. Moses Dickinson.

                                         HIS DEATH.

     Mr. Dickinson died of pleurisy, October 7, 1747, in the six-
tieth year of his age.  In reply to an inquiry made by a friend
who visited him when he was on his dying bed, he said, " Many
       ADMINISTRATION OF REV. JONATHAN DICKINSON.                                    ^5
days have passed between God and my soul, in which I have
solemnly dedicated myself to Him, and I trust what I have
committed unto Him He is able to keep until that day."
     The following notice of his death and burial appeared in the
"
    New York Weekly Post Boy" of October 12, 1747                           :




                                         "                    IN NEW JERSEY, October 10.
                                             ELIZABETHTOWN,
    " On
           Wednesday morning last, about four o'clock, died here, of a pleuritic ill-
ness, that eminently learned and pious minister of the Gospel and President of the

College of New Jersey, the Rev. Mr. Jonathan Dickinson, in the sixtieth year of
his age, whohad been Pastor of the first Presbyterian Church in this Town for
nearly forty years, and was the Glory and Joy of it. In him conspicuously appeared
those natural and acquired moral and spiritual Endowments which constitute a

truly excellent and valuable man, a good Scholar, an eminent Divine, and a
serious, devout Christian.  He was greatly adorned with the gifts and graces of
the Heavenly Master, in the Light whereof he appeared as a star of superior

Brightness and Influence in the Orb of the Church, which has sustained a great
and unspeakable Loss in his Death. He was of uncommon and of very extensive
usefulness.  He boldly appeared in the Defence of the great and important Truths
of our most holy Religion, and the Gospel Doctrines of the free and sovereign
Grace of God. He was a zealous Professor of godly Practice and godly Living,
and a bright ornament to his Profession. In Times and cases of Difficulty he was
a wise and able Counsellor.    By his death our Infant College is deprived of the
Benefit and Advantage of his superior Accomplishments, which afforded a favor-
able prospect of its future Flourishing and Prosperity under his Inspection. His
remains were decently interred here yesterday, when the Rev. Mr. Pierson, of
Woodbridge, preached his funeral sermon       ;
                                                  and as he lived desired of all, so never
any Person in these Parts died more lamented.            Our Fathers, where are they ?
and the Prophets, do they live forever?"*

                                        "
     Dr. Hatfield remarks that               this notice was       probably written
by the Rev. Mr. Pemberton, of New York, with whom Mr.
Dickinson had been intimately associated for years in the de-
fence of the truth and the promotion of the cause of Christ."
    This testimony to the worth of Mr. Dickinson is not exagger-
ated.   He was all that he is here represented to have been.
President Edwards, the Rev. Dr. Bellamy, Dr. John Erskine, of
Scotland, Governor Belcher, all confirm its truthfulness.   Ed-
wards speaks of him as the late learned and very excellent Mr.
Jonathan Dickinson. Bellamy calls him the great Mr. Dickin-
                                                          "
son. Erskine, speaking of Dickinson and Edwards, says, The

    * Dr. Stearns's "First Church, Newark," and Dr. Hatfield's "
                                                                       History of Eliza-
beth."
126         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

British Isles have        produced no such writers on divinity in the
eighteenth century."         Belcher, in his letter of the         1
                                                                       3th of No-
                                                              "
vember, 1/47, to Mr. Pemberton, speaks of him as that eminent
servant of God, the learned and pious Dickinson."
  "                                                 "
      It   may be doubted," says Dr. Sprague,           whether, with the
single exception of the elder Edwards, Calvinism has ever found
an abler or more efficient champion in this country than Jona-
than Dickinson."           If the writer   may venture        to       institute a

comparison between those two admirable men for profound       :




thinking, but not always correct, he would assign the palm to
Edwards; but for sound judgment and practical wisdom, to
Dickinson.           Both of them were eminently good, and both
eminently great.
  From the autobiography of the Reverend Jacob Green, in
early      life   a pupil of Dr. Dickinson's, and       the       father of the
Rev. Dr. Ashbcl Green, the eighth President of the College, it
appears that both Mr. Dickinson and Mr. Burr differed from
President Edwards in regard to the qualifications requisite for
admission to the sacraments; and that in regard to this, im-
portant question they held, or inclined to, the views of Mr.
Stoddard, the maternal grandfather of President Edwards.
                           CHAPTER VI.
          ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.

      UPON the decease of President Dickinson, the Rev. Aaron
Burr took charge of the College,* and the students were re-
moved from Elizabethtown to Newark, the place of Mr. Burr's
residence.       Whether Mr. Burr was formally invested with the
office of President at this time is uncertain, there being no Col-

lege records of that date, or other cotemporary authority to
determine this question. But it is certain that he discharged
the duties of the President while the College was yet under the

first charter.
  The charter given by Governor Belcher was accepted by the
Trustees therein named on the I3th of October, 1748, O. S.,
and on the Qth of November following, at a meeting of the
Trustees at Newark, Mr. Burr was unanimously chosen Presi-
dent of the College as reorganized under the second charter.
  In his sketch of the College, Dr. Green observes                      :




   " It will be seen from the
                               following extracts from the minutes of the Trustees
that a class was in readiness to receive their Bachelor's degree within one month
from the time that Belcher's charter took   effect ;   and that under that charter the
degrees were conferred by Mr. Burr on the very day that he was elected Presi-
dent.  Everything, therefore, must have been previously prepared and arranged
with a view to this event."


   If the   reverend and learned author of this sketch had had
access    toGovernor Belcher's correspondence with Messrs.
Burr, Pemberton, and Gilbert Tennent respecting the second
charter, he would have learned from that correspondence that
there was a class in readiness to receive their first degree in the


  * See obituary notice of President Burr, in the      " New York
                                                                    Mercury," Septem-
ber 29, 1757, or Dr. Stearns's " History," p. 206.
                                                                            127
I2 g      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

Arts six months before they did receive it, and he would also
have known the reason of the delay in conferring upon them
this distinction.*
   In the minutes of the Trustees there is no reference or allu-
sion to either of these things; yet they are important from their

bearing upon the question, whether the College under the first
charter and the College under the second charter were one and
the same institution.
   The following is the entire record respecting the first Com-
mencement, and the conferring of degrees on that occasion                       :




  "
      Agreed, that the commen cement for graduating the candidates, that had been
examined and approved for that purpose, go on to-day.
  " It was
           accordingly opened this forenoon by the president with prayer, and pub-
lickly reading of the charter in the meeting house.
   "
     Adjourned till two o'clock in the afternoon.
  " In the afternoon the
                           president delivered a handsome and elegant Latin Ora-
tion.   And after the customary scholastic disputations, the following gentlemen
were admitted to the degree of Bachelor of Arts, viz., Enos Ayres, Israel Read,
Benjamin Chestnut, Richard Stockton, Hugh Henry, Daniel Thane.
  " After which his            the Governor was          to       of a       of
                       Excellency                  pleased      accept     degree
Master of Arts ;   this was succeeded by a salutatory oration by Mr. Thane, and the

whole concluded with prayer by the president."


   The above-named gentlemen, the first graduates of the Col-
lege, were     prepared to receive this their           first   academic honor
while the     charter was yet in force. Apart from the evi-
               first

dence on this head furnished by Governor Belcher's letters,
referred to above, the fact that they were admitted to their first

degree on the very day that Mr. Burr was chosen and inaugu-
rated President of the College under the second charter is suffi-
cient to establish the truth of this statement. It appears, also,

that this honor was conferred after the candidates had been ex-
amined and approved. By whom, and under whose authority,
was this examination held ? Assuredly not by the authority of
the Trustees acting under the second charter, or by persons
designated by them. For at the meeting on the I3th of Octo-
ber     their only one previous to the election of Mr. Burr and the

holding of the first Commencement                no provision whatever was

 * See extracts from Governor Belcher's letters, in the third chapter of this work.
       ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                                        i   2g


made for this examination. The candidates must therefore have
been examined and approved by the President and others acting
under an authority given in the first charter, although they
were admitted to their first degree in the Arts by a vote of the
Trustees of the second charter, the transition of the College
from the control of the one to that of the other being com-
pleted on the very day on which the degrees were conferred.
  " Its first
              Commencement," says Mr. Moore, the Librarian of the New York
Historical Society, " was celebrated with circumstances of great pomp and cere-

mony equally novel and interesting.    The following report of the proceedings was
prepared at the request of the Trustees of the College, by WILLIAM SMITH, at that
time a leading lawyer of the New York Bar, and published in the principal New
York newspaper."

                        [From Parker's Gazette and Post Boy, Nov. 21, 1748.]
" MR. PARKER        :




lt
     As the Acts of a publick Commencement are little known in these Parts, perhaps the
     following Relation from an Eye and Ear Witness, may be agreeable to many of
     your Readers.
      " On
             Wednesday the ninth Instant, was held at Newark, the first commencement
of the College of New- Jersey ; at which was present his Excellency JONATHAN

BELCHER, Esq., Governor and Commander in Chief of the said Province, and
President of the Trustees, and sixteen Gentlemen, being other Trustees named
in the Royal CHARTER     Who after they had all taken and subscribed the Oaths to
                               :



the Government, and           made and signed the Declaration which are appointed by
divers Statutes of Great Britain, and had taken the particular Oath for the faithful

performance of their Trust, all which were required by the said Charter, they pro-
ceeded to the Election of a President of the said College ; whereupon the Reverend
Mr. AARON BURR, was unanimously chosen.
  " Which
            being done, his Excellency was preceded from his Lodgings at the
President's House   first by the Candidates walking in Couples uncovered ; next
                          ;


followed the Trustees two by two being covered, and last of all his Excellency the
Governor, with the President at his Left Hand.                 At the Door of the Place ap-
pointed for the Publick Acts, the procession (amidst a great number of Spectators
there gathered) was inverted, the Candidates parting to the Right and Left Hand,
and the Trustees in like Manner.              His Excellency first entered with the President,
the Trustees next following in the Order in which they were ranged in the Char-
ter; and last of all the Candidates.  Upon the Bell ceasing, and the Assembly
being composed, the President began the Publick Acts by solemn Prayer to God
in the English Tongue, for a Blessing upon the publick Transactions of the Day                ;




upon his Majesty King GEORGE the Second, and the Royal Family; upon the
British Nations and Dominions    upon the Governor and Government of New-
                                          ;



Jersey ; upon all Seminaries of true Religion and good Literature;
                                                                   and par-
ticularly upon the infant College of           New- Jersey.
l^Q        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  "Which being concluded, the President attended in the Pulpit with the Reverend
Mr. Thomas Arthur, who had been constituted Clerk of the Corporation, desired
in the English tongue, the Assembly to stand up and hearken to his Majesty's

Royal CHARTER, granted to the Trustees of the College of New- Jersey.
  "
    Upon which, the Assembly standing, the Charter was distinctly read by the
Reverend Mr. Arthur, with the usual Indorsement by his Majesty's Attorney Gen-
eral,   and the Certificate signed by the Secretary of the Province, of its having been
approved in Council, with his Excellency's Fiat for the Province Seal, signed with
his Excellency's own Hand.
     " After
               this, the       Morning being spent, the President signified to the Assembly,
that the succeeding Acts would be deferred till two o'clock in the Afternoon.
     " Then the                                        the President's House, was   made in the
                      Procession, in Return      ito


Order before observed.
  " The like                               made in the Afternoon as in the Morning, and the
                      procession being
Assembly being seated in their places, and composed the President opened the
                                                                   ;



publick Acts, first by an elegant Oration in the Latin Tongue, delivered memoriter,
modestly declaring his Unworthiness of, and unfitness for so weighty and important
a Trust as had been reposed in him ; apologizing for the Defects that would un-

avoidably appear in his part of the present Service ; displaying the manifold Ad-
vantages of the liberal Arts and Sciences, in exalting and dignifying the humane
Nature, enlarging the Soul, improving its Faculties, civilizing Mankind, qualifying
them for the important Offices of Life, and rendering them useful Members of
Church and State That to Learning and the Arts, was chiefly owing the vast
                           :




Pre-eminence of the polished Nations of Europe, to the almost brutish Savages of
America; the Sight of which last was the constant Object of Horror and Commis-
eration.       Then the President proceeded to mention the Honours paid by our An-
cestors in     Great Britain to the Liberal Sciences ; by erecting and endowing those
illustrious Seminaries of Learning which for many Ages had been the Honour and

Ornament of those happy Islands, and the source of infinite Advantage to the
People there Observing, that the same noble Spirit had animated their Descend-
                  :




ants, the first English Planters of America ; who, as soon as they were formed into
a civil State in the very infancy of Time, had wisely laid Religion and Learning
at the Foundation of their Commonwealth        and had always regarded them as the
                                                        ;


firmest pillars of their Church and State     That hence very early arose Harvard
College, in New- Cambridge, and afterwards Yale College, in New- Haven, which
have now flourished with growing Reputation for many Years, and have sent forth
many hundreds of learned Men of various Stations and Characters in Life, that in
different Periods have proved the Honour and Ornament of their Country, and of

which, the one or the other had been the ALMA MATER of most of the Literati
then present. That Learning, like the Sun in its Western Progress, had now begun
to   dawn upon the Province of New- Jersey, through the happy Influence of its
generous Patron their most excellent Governor ; who from his own Experience and
an early Acquaintance with Academic Studies, well knowing the Importance of a
learned Education, and being justly sensible that in nothing he could more sub-
serve to the Honour and Interest of his Majesty's Government, and the real Good
and Happiness of his Subjects in New- Jersey, than by granting them the best
Means to render themselves a religious, wise and knowing people               ;
                                                                                  Had therefore,
upon his happy Accession to his Government, made the Erection of a College in
       ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                               131

thisProvince for the Instruction of Youth in the liberal Arts and Sciences, the
immediate Object of his Attention and Care The clearest Demonstration whereof
                                                :




they had by the Grant of his most gracious Majesty's        ROYAL CHARTER in the
Morning published in that Assembly, which had been conveyed to them through
his Excellency's Hands      which appears to have been founded in the noblest
                              ;



Munificence, granting the most ample Privileges consistent with the natural and
religious Rights of Mankind, and calculated for the most extensive Good of all his
Majesty's Subjects.   That therein we see the Ax laid to the Root of that ANTICHRIS-
TIAN BIGOTRY that had in every Age (wherever it had prevailed) been the Parent
of Persecution, the Bane of Society, and the Plague of Mankind That by the
                                                                       :



Tenour of his Majesty's Charter, it could assume no Place in the College of
N'ew- Jersey ; but as z.foul Fiend was banished to its native Region, that infernal
PIT from whence it sprung.
   "
     These, and many other Particulars having, more Oratorio, taken up about
three Quarters of an Hour, and the printed Theses being dispersed among the
Learned in the Assembly, the Candidates, by the Command of the President, en-
tered upon the publick Disputations in Latin, in which six Questions in Philosophy
and Theology were debated.          One of which was   :


   "    '
            An Libertas agendi Secundum Dictamina Conscientia, in Rebus mere religi-
osis, ab ulla Potestate hum ana coerceri debeat ?'
   " In
        English, Whether the Liberty of acting according to the Dictates of Con-
science, in Matters merely religious, ought to be restrained by any humane Power?
   " And it was
                  justly held and concluded, That that Liberty ought not to be re-
strained.   Then the President addressing himself to the Trustees in Latin, asked,
Whether it was their Pleasure that these young Men who had performed the pub-
lick Exercises in Disputation should be admitted to the       Degree of Batchelor of
the Arts ?
   "Which being granted by his Excellency in the name of all the Trustees present,
the President descended from the Pulpit, being seated with his Head covered, re-
ceived them two by two; and according to the Authority to him committed by the

Royal Charter, after the Manner of the Academies in England, admitted six young
Scholars to the Degree of Batchelor of the Arts.
  " In the next
                 Place, his Excellency JONATHAN BELCHER, Esq., Governor and
Commander in Chief of the Province of New- Jersey, having declared his desire
to accept from that College the Degree of Master of Arts; the other Trustees in a

just Sense of theHonour done the College by his Excellency's Condescension,
most heartily having granted his Request, and the President rising uncovered
addressed himself to his Excellency; and according to the same Authority com-
mitted to him by the Royal CHARTER, after the Manner of the Academies in
England admitted him to the Degree of Master of Arts.
  " Then the President ascended the
                                    Pulpit, and commanded the Orator Salutato-
rius to ascend the Rostrum, who being Mr. Daniel Thane, just before graduated
Batchelor of Arts   he in a modest and decent manner, first apologizing for his
                        ;



Insufficiency,and then having spoken of the Excellency of the liberal Arts and
Sciences, and of the Numberless Benefits they yield to Mankind in private and
social life addressed himself in becoming Salutations and Thanks to his Excel-
                ;



lency and the Trustees, the President and whole Assembly All which being per-
                                                               :




formed in good Latin from his Memory in a handsome oratorical Manner in the
1^2
              HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

Space of about half an Hour. The President concluded in English, with Thanks-
giving to Heaven for the Favours received and Prayers to God for a Blessing upon
the Scholars that had received the publick Honours of that Day, and for the Smiles
of Heaven upon the infant College of New- Jersey, and dismissed the Assembly.
All which being performed to the great Satisfaction of all present, his Excellency
with the Trustees and Scholars, returned to the House of the President in the Order
observed in the Morning; where, after sundry          Bv-LAWS were made, chiefly for
regulating the Studies and Manners of the Students, they agreed upon a Corpora-
tion Seal with this Device: In the upper Part of the Circle, a Bible spread open,
with Latin Characters inscribed on the Left Side, signifying the Old Testament, and
on the right side the New, with this Motto over it: VITVE LUMEN MORTUIS REDDIT;
with a view to that Text, Who hath abolished Death, and hath brotight Life and
Immortality to Light through the Gospel. Underneath on one Side a Table with
Books standing thereon, to signify the proper Business of the Students on the    ;


other a Diploma, with the College Seal appended over it, being written MERITI
PREMIUM, to signify that the Degrees to be conferred are only to be to those that
deserve them.        On the outside of the Circle, SIGILLUM COLLEGII NEO C^ESARI-
ENSIS IN AMERICA; the Seal of the College of New- Jersey, in America; and then
appointed the succeeding Commencement to be at New-Brunswick on the last
Wednesday of September next. Thus the first Appearance of a College in New-
Jersey having given universal Satisfaction, even the Unlearned being pleased with
the external Solemnity and Decorum which they saw, 'tis hoped that this infant

College will meet with due Encouragement from             all publick   spirited generous
Minds     ;   and that the Lovers of Mankind will wish its Prosperity, and contribute to
its
      Support."

   In the evening of Commencement-day the Trustees held
another session, and took into consideration several impor-
tant measures for the welfare of the College, the first of them

having reference to                its   government, the minute respecting
which is as follows            :




      " A set of laws were laid before the Trustees for their
                                                                approbation ; and, after a
second and third reading, and some alterations and amendments, they were unani-
mously received, and ordered to be inserted with the minutes, as the laws of the
College of New Jersey."

   It is morally certain that these laws were prepared by Presi-

dent Burr, and that they were the product of his experience
in conducting the government of the College for the twelve
months preceding.
  The following were the rules relating to the admission of
students        :




      " I. None
                may expect to be admitted into College but such as being examined
by the President and Tutors shall be found able to render Virgil and Tully's Ora-
   ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.
                                                                               ^3
tions into English ;and to turn English into true and grammatical Latin and to
                                                                           ;


be so well acquainted with the Greek as to render any part of the four Evangelists
in that language into Latin or English ;   and to give the grammatical connexion of
the words.
  " 2.
        Every student [that] enters College shall transcribe the Laws, which being
signed by the President, shall be testimony of his admission, and shall be kept by
him, while he remains a member of the College, as the rule of his Behavior."


  So far as a knowledge of Latin and Greek is concerned, it is
doubtful whether any advance has been made in the requisites
for admission into the Freshman or lowest class since the time
that the first of these two rules was adopted.  For although
a more extensive reading of authors in these languages is now
required of candidates, yet the instances are very rare in which
they are found able to translate any part of the four Gospels
from Greek into Latin, or to turn English into true and gram-
matical Latin. In those days a knowledge of Latin and Greek
was more generally and highly appreciated by educated men than
it is   now; not that the first classical scholars of those times were
superior or even equal to the best in our own times in matters of
critical nicety and in a thorough acquaintance with the gram-

matical structure of these ancient languages.                 Many a man can
speak his own language well and fluently, and with readiness
quote from eminent writers passages committed by him to mem-
ory, who possesses little or no ability to analyze his own modes
of speech, much less the expressions of others, and weigh with
exactness the import of the several words and sentences.                           So
classical scholars of the last century, in this country, could quote
and speak and write Latin with far greater facility than students
of the same relative position at the present day are able to do,
but in sound and thorough criticism they have been surpassed
by their successors. What is wanting in our schools and col-
leges is the union of both systems, of which there is little hope,
seeing the number and variety of subjects pressing their claims
for a place in our curriculums of study.
   The next thing, after adopting a college code, was a vote                   :




   " That the annual Commencement for the future be on the       last Wednesday of

September, and that the next Commencement be held at New Brunswick."

   The reason for selecting the last day of September as the
I3 4
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

day for the annual Commencement was probably owing to the
circumstance that at that time the Commencement at Harvard
took place on the second Wednesday in September in each year,
and that at Yale on the third Wednesday of the same month.
  Notwithstanding Governor Belcher's strong preference for
Princeton as the permanent seat of the College, some of the
Trustees, perhaps a majority, were in favor of locating the
institution at     New Brunswick, and by holding the next Com-
mencement there they hoped to               interest the     people of that
place in the College, and to induce them to offer liberal pecu-
niary aid towards the erection of suitable buildings.
   The appointment of a Treasurer next claimed their attention,
and the minute respecting it is this         :




  "
      Voted, That the Honorable Andrew Johnston, Esq., be desired to accept the
office of  Treasurer to the corporation."


   Mr. Johnston was the Treasurer of East Jersey, and a member
of the Council, and in the list of Trustees mentioned in Gov-

ernor Belcher's charter his name stands third.  He was present
at the meeting, on the    3th of1October, 1748, when the new
charter was accepted, and was qualified by taking the prescribed
oaths.       He was not present at this meeting. It is not said
in the      minutes of the Board that he accepted the office thus
tendered him, but it is probable that he did, as there is no men-
tion    made of the appointment of another person to this office
until nearly two years after, and then           only incidentally, as seen
in the following extract from the minutes            :




  " Mr. Hude was
                  appointed to administer the oaths required by the charter to
Messrs. Caleb Smith and Mr. Woodruff, Trustees, Mr. Sergeant, Treasurer, Mr.
Sherwood and Mr. Maltby, Tutors."

      Mr. Sergeant was probably appointed Treasurer at this time,
September 26, 1750, as his name does not appear in the minutes
before this meeting, and as in a previous minute of this same
                     "
meeting it is said, Rev. John Frelinghuysen and Rev. Caleb
Smith chosen Trustees in the room of John Kinsey, Esq., de-
ceased, and of the Hon. Andrew Johnston, resigned."        It is not

improbable   that  Mr. Johnston resigned  both offices at the  same
time, while it is possible that he may never have  acted  as Treas-
         ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.
                                                                                 ^5
urer, and that the President of the College                  may have attended
to the fiscal concerns of the institution until the appointment of
Mr. Sergeant.
  The other items of business at this meeting may be learned
from the following extracts from the minutes                  :


     "
     Voted, That the seal prepared by Mr. P. Smith [one of the Trustees] be
accepted as the common seal of this corporation, and that the thanks of the corpo-
ration be returned to Mr. Smith for his care in devising the same.
   " And that he be desired to
                                get two seals engraven, of the same device, for the
use of the corporation, and that the Trustees be answerable for the expense thereof.
  "
     Voted, That all diplomas and certificates of degrees be signed by the President
and at least six of the Trustees.
  "
    Voted, That William Smith, Esq., be appointed to draw up an account, of the
proceedings of the Commencement, and to get it into the New York Gazette' as
                                                              '




soon as he conveniently can.
   " That Messrs.
                  Pierson, Cowell, Johnes, Arthur, be appointed to make application
to the General Assembly of this Province, now sitting at Perth Amboy, in order to

get their countenance and assistance for the support of the College.
  "
    Voted, That the following gentlemen be desired to take in subscriptions for
the College, viz., Messrs. Kinsey, Hazard, at Philadelphia; P. Van Brugh Living-

ston, P. Smith,    New York   ;
                                  Read and Smith, at Burlington   ;
                                                                      Read and Cowell,
at   Trenton John Stevens, Amboy ; Samuel Woodruff, Elizabethtown Thomas
               ;                                                             ;


Leonard, John Stockton, Esqs., Princeton; James Hude, Esq., and Thomas Ar-
thur, at Brunswick   Henderson and Furman, Freehold ; John Pierson, Wood-
                      ;



bridge; Major Johnson, at Newark.
  " That all the Trustees shall use their utmost endeavors to obtain benefactions

to the said College, and that this vote     go into the   New York and Philadelphia
gazettes.
  " That this
              meeting be adjourned to the third Tuesday in May, to be held at
Maidenhead [now Lawrenceville], Mr. Tennent concluded with prayer."

  It is evident, from the variety and importance of the matters

handled by the Trustees on the day of the first Commence-
ment, that they must have devoted themselves very earnestly
to the business before them, viz., the election of a President,
his inauguration, the public reading of the charter, attendance
on the Commencement exercises, including the President's
Latin address, the conferring of degrees, and the adopting of
a body of laws, besides the various matters mentioned in the
above extract.
  The next record in the minutes is in these words                       :




                                                          "TRENTON, May 18, 1749.
  "
    According to adjournment, met at Maidenhead [Lawrenceville] sundry of the
Trustees of the College, but were frustrated of a Quorum by the absence of several
j^6
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

members.     The Trustees, however, thought proper to wait upon his Excellency
the Governor, who was come to Trenton on his way to the meeting of the Corpora-
tion, where several things were disposed of with respect to the College.
  "
      Upon the recommendation of Mr. President, the Trustees present do approve
of Mr. Maltby to be employed as Tutor of the College, and do recommend it to
the Trustees at their next meeting to establish him in that capacity. It is farther

recommended to the Committee appointed to wait upon the Assembly [of the-Prov-
ince], that they   renew their application to them, at their next session, at Perth
Amboy, and that they do Expressly request that a Lottery be granted them, for the
service of the College."

   Public attention had not yet been called to the evils of the
lottery system and, as a lottery scheme furnished great facilities
                    ;



for the raising of funds, the Trustees of the College at that
time did not scruple as to the propriety of their taking part in
one, provided they could obtain permission so to do.
  At the next regular meeting of the Board, held at                          New
Brunswick, September 27, 1749, the committee to ask aid from
the General Assembly of the Province was enlarged by the
addition of four members, and was instructed to apply for au-
thority to raise by a lottery a sum not exceeding three thousand
pounds proc., equal to eight thousand dollars.
   The application was made but the final report to the Board
                                       ;



on this subject was, that " the Provincial Assembly absolutely re-
fused to grant the petition for a Lottery," and that the committee,
"
  with the concurrence of the generality of the Trustees, had
agreed to erect a Lottery in Philadelphia to raise money for the
benefit of the College; and that the said Lottery had been drawn."
This report was made at a meeting of the Trustees, held at
Newark, September 26, 1750. The thanks of the Board were
presented to the gentlemen who took upon themselves the
management of the lottery, and provision was made for settling
all matters connected with it.*

  It was ordered, that all moneys remaining in the hands of

the managers after the expiration of six months be paid to the
Treasurer. The committee appointed to settle with the man-

agers consisted of the President, the Treasurer, the Clerk of
the Board, and Messrs. Woodruff and Neilson. Subsequently,


  * There does not appear to have been at      this   time in Pennsylvania any law

prohibiting the drawing of lotteries in that Province.
   ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                                     l
                                                                                      ->j


       the year 1753-4 (see "Minutes of the Board," pages 37
viz., in
and 39), upon a petition from the Trustees, the General Court
of the Colony of Connecticut granted them the privilege of
drawing a lottery within the limits of that Colony, and in
1761-2 the General Assembly of New Jersey gave them au-
thority to draw one in this Province.  What sums of money
were received from these lotteries cannot now be ascertained,
the books of the Treasurer at those periods not having been

preserved.        most probable that the College received but
                 It is

little,    if
         any,  addition to its funds from these sources.  The
last application to the Legislature of New Jersey for a lot-

tery was made in the winter of 1813-14, soon after Dr. Ashbel
Green became President of the College, and it met with the
same fate that most of the previous ones had done, it was
refused.
   In his notes respecting the College, and in reference, more
particularly, to the failure of the first efforts made to obtain aid
from the General Assembly of the Province, Dr. Green thus
writes     :




  " Petitions of the most
                       urgent kind were addressed to the legislature of the prov-
ince of New Jersey in behalf of the College.  But even a petition for a lottery
was 'absolutely rejected.'     Whatever was the influence of Governor Belcher or the
popularity of President Burr, their united exertions could never prevail upon the
legislature of the province in which the College was founded, whose name it bore,
and of which it was the greatest ornament, to show it patronage or favor of any
kind.  It is as grievous to the writer to record this want of liberality in the legisla-

ture of his native State, as  it can be to any other inhabitant to read the record.

But historical fidelity requires that the fact should not be suppressed. All the
State patronage which the College has ever received shall, in its proper place, be

faithfully stated.   The writer has only to regret that the statement will so easily
be made."


   As the " Historical Sketch of the Origin of the College of
New Jersey," from which the above is copied, does not extend
over a period of twenty years, but ends with the administration
of President Finley, who died while yet President, in 1766, no
allusion or reference is again made to this matter in the notes
of President Green, except the mention of the fact that in the
year 1761 the General Assembly of New Jersey authorized
                                                           the

drawing  of a lottery for the benefit of the College.
     VOL. I.    IO
!^g
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

      To the view here presented of the want of liberality on the
part of the Legislature the writer of this history cannot assent;
and for these reasons. The College of New Jersey, although
bearing the name of the State, was never a State institution.
It was not established by the Legislature. In the exercise of
its granted and legitimate powers it is not subject to the control
of that body, and therefore has no special claims upon its liber-
ality. On the other hand, after the American Revolution, the
Legislature confirmed the charter of the College, with only
such changes as the altered condition of the civil affairs of the
country required, enlarged     its   powers, and never refused to
pass any measure desired by its friends for the protection of its
interests.
  The good will uniformly exhibited towards the College by
the authorities of the State calls for a grateful acknowledgment
on the part of the friends of the College, and they may be glad
that the applications to the Legislature for pecuniary aid were
unsuccessful.  Had the aid sought been granted, this might
have led to more or less interference by the Legislature in the
management of the institution, under the plea of seeing that
the funds given by the State were wisely expended, or employed
in accordance with the design and the terms of the different
grants.  From any and all such interference the College, hap-
pily, has ever been free.
      The matters which more especially demanded and received
the attention of the Trustees during the presidency of Mr.
Burr were provision for the instruction of the students, the
selection of a    permanent seat for the College, the erection of
suitable buildings, and the raising of the funds required for
these purposes.
  To provide the necessary instruction, the Board, at a meeting
held September 27, 1749, authorized the President, "with the
advice of any four of the neighboring Trustees, to employ any
such person or persons as they shall think proper to assist him
in the government and instruction of the College till their next

meeting."      Previously to this action, as appears from a minute
cited above, sundry Trustees, but not a quorum, met Governor
Belcher at Trenton, May 18, 1749, and those present expressed
   ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.
                                                              ^9
their approval of employing Mr. Maltby as a Tutor, and also
recommended "that at their next meeting the Trustees should
establish him in that capacity." The form of the minute seems
to indicate that he had been assisting President Burr, or at least
that he was expected to do so, from that time, which corre-

sponded with the beginning of the second term under the
second charter.  Whether at their next meeting, of September
27, 1749, the Trustees did establish Mr. Maltby in the office of
Tutor, the minutes  of that meeting do not indicate. But the
minute, already cited, authorizing the President to employ such
assistants as he might need, with the consent of any four of the

neighboring Trustees, was a virtual confirmation of Mr. Maltby's
appointment; and at the next meeting of the Board, at Newark,
September 27, 1750, this gentleman took the required oaths of
office as a College Tutor, as also did Mr. Samuel Sherwood, who
was chosen a Tutor at this time.
   It is a matter of some doubt whether for the first six months

Mr. Burr had any assistance in the government and the instruc-
tion of the College.    He may have employed Mr. Maltby on
trial   before he recommended his appointment by the Trustees    ;


but this      is        For the next eighteen months he was
                   uncertain.
aided by this gentleman, and from the beginning of the third
College year until the end of his administration there were,
without any intermission, two Tutors associated with him, who
with him constituted the College Faculty.
  The names of the several Tutors during Mr. Burr's time are
John Maltby, Samuel Sherwood, Jonathan Badger, Alexan-
der Gordon, George Duffield, William Thompson, Benjamin
Youngs Prime, John Ewing, Isaac Smith, and Jeremiah Halsey.
Some of these gentlemen became eminent in their professions,
and of them further mention will be made at the end of this
memoir of President Burr and his administration.
   What was the full course of instruction at this period in the
history of the College we have no means of ascertaining defi-
nitely, as the Faculty minutes of that time are lost.
                                                      But from
what    known of the opinions prevalent among the early
         is

friendsof the College, and from the varied attainments of
Mr. Burr and of the Tutors associated with him, and also the
I4 o
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

usual       scholastic     exercises at the         Commencements of those
days, we may safely conclude that the College curriculum em-
braced the study of the Latin and Greek languages, the Ele-
ments of Mathematics, Natural Philosophy, Moral Philosophy,
Rhetoric and Logic, together with declamations and discus-
sions. The students were also well instructed in the doctrines
and precepts of the Christian faith, their religious teacher being
the President of the College.
  In the school .under the care of the Synod of Philadelphia,
established three years before the first charter of the College of
New Jersey was obtained, the course of instruction included
"languages, philosophy, and divinity;" and from a minute of
the Synod of Philadelphia, May 23, 1754, it appears that Mr.
Alexander McDowell, the Principal of the school at that time,
                                                            "
was  to continue to give instruction in     logic, mathematics,
natural and moral philosophy," etc., and that Mr. James P. Wil-
                                                      "
son, just appointed to assist him, was to teach the languages."
   It is not to be presumed that in the College of New Jersey,

under the government and instruction of President Burr, a grad-
uate of Yale, and one of the first scholars of his day, the pre-
scribed course would fall short of that existing in the school of
the Synod of Philadelphia, as it was the aim and desire of the
early friends of the College to provide for the young men of
the middle Provinces an education equal to that furnished by
Harvard and Yale to the youth of New England.

  The view here presented of the course of instruction given by President Burr
and his assistants is confirmed by sundry occasional remarks of Mr. Joseph Ship-
pen, of Philadelphia, a student of the College, in his correspondence with his
father, Judge Edward Shippen, and with other friends.       It is only very recently

(May, 1876) that the writer has had access to this correspondence, and for this privi-
lege he is indebted to the courtesy of the Hon. J. C. G. Kennedy, of Washington
City.
      In his letters, written in 1750, 1751, 1752, and 1753, Mr. Shippen does not profess
to give a particular account of the College curriculum, but, as the occasion calls for

it,   he mentions the subjects of study pursued by his class, and the works of which he
had need, or which would be useful to him, in the prosecution of his studies. For
example, he says to his father, in a letter written in French, and dated February
                                                                  " But I must
13, 1750, at which time he was a member of the Freshman class,                 give
you  an account  of my  studies at  the present  time.  At seven in the morning we
recite to the President lessons in the works of     Xenophon, in Greek, and in Watts'
    ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                                                      l
                                                                                                         ^i
'
 Ontology.'  The rest of the morning, until dinner-time, we study Cicero de Oratore
and the Hebrew Grammar, and recite our lessons to Mr. Sherman (the College
Tutor).   The remaining part of the day we spend in the study of Xenophon and
Ontology, to recite the next morning. And besides these things, we dispute once
every week after the syllogistic method; and now and then we learn Geography."
Two months later, April 19, he requests his father to send him Tully's " Orations,"
                            " I shall have occasion to use
which, he adds,                                            immediately."                 In a subsequent
letter, of       May 12, 1750, he says, " I believe I shall not want any more books till I
come to Philadelphia, when I can bring them with me; which will be Gordon's
 Geographical Grammar' and (it may be) Watts' Astronomy' and a book or two of
'                                                          '




Logick.      .    .   .   We have to-day a lesson on the Globes."
    "
    As I have but little time but what I must employ in my studies I can't enlarge,
otherwise I would give some account of our College, as to the constitution, method,
and customs, but must leave that till I see you."                  In a letter of the 8th of June,
he says, " I shall learn Horace in a little while              ;   .   .   .   but   my time is filled up
in studying Virgil, Greek Testament, and Rhetoric, so that I have no time hardly
to look over   any French, or Algebra, or any English book for my improvement.
However, I shall accomplish it soon.        The President tells our class that we must
                                               .   .   .



                                                                                     "
go into Logick this week, and I shall have occasion for Watts' Book of Logick.'
                                                                                     '



   Such it seems was the course of study pursued by the Freshman class in 1750.
As portions of Virgil and the four Gospels were required for admission to this class,
it is probable that at or near the end of the year they revised these for another ex-

amination upon them, in connection with the regular studies of the year. In the
Sophomore year attention was paid to Rhetoric, Ontology, and Mathematics. In
his letter of the 2ist of          December, 1750, at which time he was a member of the
Sophomore class, referring to a course of lectures then being delivered in Phila-
                                                                              " The
delphia, on several branches of Natural Philosophy, Mr. Shippen remarks,
Astronomical parts, I perceive, are to be illustrated by a fine Orrery,* which                       .   .    .




will represent to you the most adequate idea of the system of the world                          and the
various motions of the Heavenly Bodies, which [it] would give me great pleasure
to see, because these things are a part of my studies every day."  It is probable that

these subjects were attended to in connection with the study of the globes previously
mentioned.   From the same letter it appears that at this time he was reading the
second book of Homer, and would shortly enter upon the study of the third
                                                            "
book, and that in the spring he would have need of Martin's Natural Philosophy,"
in two volumes, of which he seems to have a just appreciation when he says, "that
it is   by far the best that is extant, and which," he adds, "the President now uses
in the instruction of the upper [Senior] class.''
  On the 29th of May, 1751, President Burr wrote to Mr. James David Dove, of
Philadelphia, and made an arrangement with him for the use of an apparatus
suited to the illustration of a course of twelve lectures on Natural Philosophy, by
Mr. Lewis Evans.               It does not appear what compensation            Mr. Evans was to receive
for his lectures, but Mr. Burr engaged to pay to Mr. Dove ten pounds proclamation
when the lectures are finished.             These lectures were the same as those delivered
by Mr. Evans in the cities of Philadelphia and New York, and concerning which
Mr. Shippen thus speaks in his letter to his father, of the date of September 14,

                              * This w as not Rittenhouse's famous orrery.
                                      r
I4 2
             HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

1751: "Mr. Lewis Evans has already exhibited eight of his lectures, ... to
the general satisfaction of all attending thereon. And as to his Lecture on Elec-
                knowledge in it, and his accurateness in performing the experi-
tricity, his great

ments, have given us abundant Light into the Nature and properties thereof, of
which I was entirely ignorant before. And as several Phenomena in Nature can
be accounted for from the knowledge of this newly-discovered Element (I mean
the Electrical Fluid), and are dependent thereon, I have taken this good opportunity,
while Mr. Evans is here, and has a globe to spare, to procure myself a small Elec-
trical   Machine, particularly for my instruction in this useful branch of Philosophy."
   From a letter of Governor Belcher to Mr. [Dr.] Franklin, of the date of January
20, 1752,     it
                    appears that President Burr had possessed himself of an Electrical
Machine, and that he experimented with it upon the Governor himself, for his relief
from the paralysis under which he was suffering at the time. The relief, however,
afforded by the use of electricity in the Governor's case was but little, if any.       Dr.
Franklin had kindly offered to wait upon the Governor for a like purpose, and sent
him one of his machines, the " glass globe" of which unfortunately was broken on
its way to the Governor's residence ; and this was the occasion of Mr. Burr proffer-

ing his services. As Mr. Burr instructed the students in Natural Philosophy, this
doubtless was the chief reason for his purchase of this Electrical Machine.  Dr.
Franklin's great discovery of the identity of lightning and ordinary electricity was
made in 1752.
  In a      letter of      December 2, 1751, Mr. Shippen says, "Mr. Burr has collected
this Fall subscriptions to the value of             200, Penn's currency, for the apparatus,
about ;ioo whereof Col. Alford very generously subscribed, he being one of the
greatest friends our College   is blessed with."  Further on Mr. Shippen adds,
" I am
        beginning to read Ethics (or Moral Philosophy), and shall have occasion
for Grove's 2 vols. on that branch."                                       " Since
                                       Again, in a letter of May 23, 1752,
you were here, the President has been instructing two or three of us in the calcu-
lation of Eclipses, for which we made use of Whiston & Brent's Astronomical
Tables." And in a letter of the 25th of July, 1752, to his father, Mr. Shippen,
" I received
             your letter of the 230! of May, with Hodgson's Theory of Navigation'
                                                           v



and      Street's
                    '
                        Tables,' for   which I am very thankful, though I am sorry that    I

cannot now employ my thoughts in studying anything of them, as I am fully en-
gaged in the necessary exercises of the College." From this remark and the one
preceding, it is probable that the calculating of Eclipses and study of Navigation
were optional studies, to which the students in general were not required to give
attention, but for instruction in which, if desired, they could have all needed help.
   In August, 1752, Mr. Shippen, with the consent of his father, and of Mr. Burr,
went for a few weeks to New Rochelle, to be with a French family and learn the
French language more perfectly.


                             THE LOCATING OF THE COLLEGE.
    The second thing mentioned as an object of special interest
at this time was the choice of a permanent seat for the College.
At a meeting of the Trustees, at Newark, September 26, 1750,
the time of the annual Commencement, it was voted,
        ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                                 143
       " That a
                  proposal be made to the Towns of Brunswick and Princetown       to try
what sum of money they can raise for Building of the College, by the next meeting,
that the Trustees       may be better able to judge in which of these places to fix the
place of the College."


  At the next meeting, held at Trenton,                       May 15,. 1751, the
Trustees decided,

  " That New Brunswick be the
                                place for the building of the College, provided the
Inhabitants of said Place agree with the Trustees upon the following terms, viz.
that they secure to the College a Thousand Pounds proc. money, ten acres of land

contiguous to the College, and two hundred acres of wood-land, the furthest part
of it not to be more than three miles from the town."


       At this meeting there was an offer made by the inhabitants
of Princeton, and it was next ordered,

   " That Mr.
              Sergeant, the Treasurer, and some other person, whom he shall see
fit,   view the above promised land at Princetown, and also that to be given by the
Inhabitants of New Brunswick, and         make a report of the same to the Trustees at
their meeting in September next."



       This meeting was held at Newark, on the 25th of September,
at which time the following record was made                     :




   " When the Board of Trustees had laid before them the
                                                               proposals of the Inhabit-
ants of New Brunswick, relating to the College being fixt there, for want of some

particular steps being taken respecting that matter, the Trustees judged that they
could not at present come to any conclusion in the affair, and so deferred the further
consideration of it to their next meeting."


       The Trustees also ordered,
  " That Mr.
             Sergeant, with any person he shall choose, view the land at New
Brunswick and at Princetown, and make a report what they shall deem an equiva-
lent at the next meeting."


       This   is   substantially the     same order with one given at the
previous meeting, but differing in this respect, as they were to
give their judgment as to what would be an equivalent for the
land promised the College.
       The next meeting of the Board was held at Elizabeth, May
14, 1752, but it doesnot appear from the minutes that any ac-
tion was had in reference to the erection of a College building.
At the meeting held at the time of the next Commencement,
I4 4
                HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

September 27, 1752, the following entry was made in the min-
utes       :




  " The Trustees
                  taking into consideration that the people of New Brunswick
have not complied with the terms proposed to them for fixing the College in that
place, by the time referred to in the offer of this Board, now Voted, That they are
free from any obligation to fix the College at     NewBrunswick, and are at liberty to
place      it   where they please.   The Trustees agree that it shall be put to Vote in
what place the College shall be fixed, upon such conditions as the Board shall
propose.
     "
         Voted, That the College be fixed at Princetown, upon condition that the inhab-
itants of said    Place secure to the Trustees those two hundred acres of wood-land,
and that Ten Acres of cleared land which Mr. Sergeant viewed and also one
                                                                        ;


thousand Pounds proc. money.   The one half of which sum to be paid within two
months after the foundation of the College is laid, and the other half within six
months afterwards and that the people of said Place comply with the terms of this
                         ;


vote within three months from this time by giving in Bonds for said money, and

making a sufficient Title for said land to be received by such persons as the Board
shall appoint, or else forfeit all privilege from this Vote ; and that the Treasurer be

empowered to give them a bond for the fulfilment of this Vote on the part of the
Trustees.
     " The Trustees
                  appoint Messrs. President Burr, Samuel Woodruff, Jonathan Ser-
geant, Elihu Spencer, Caleb Smith, to be a committee to transact the above affair
with the Inhabitants of Princetown, and that Elizabethtown be the place for accom-
plishing the same."

     At this meeting Governor Belcher earnestly urged the Trus-
tees to go on with the erection of a College building, and of a
house for the President and his family. The Governor's speech
is   given at length in the minutes of the Board.
  The next meeting of the Trustees was held at Princeton, on
the 24th of January, 1753, when it was voted by the Board,
  " That said
              People (when Mr. Randolph has given a Deed for a certain tract of
Land four hundred feet Front and thirty Poles depth, in lines at right angles with
the broad street where it is proposed that the College shall be built) have complied
with the terms proposed to them for fixing the College at said place."


     Mr. Nathaniel Fitz Randolph here referred to did give the
required deed, and through his liberality and that of the gentle-
men who contributed the thousand pounds proc., and who paid
for the rest of the land given to the College, the permanent seat
of the College was fixed at Princeton.
     Among certain memoranda made by Mr. Randolph is the
following:
   ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                                           l
                                                                                            ^
  "January 25, 1753.     Gave a deed to the Trustees for (4^) four and one-half
acres of   Land for the College."

  The consideration mentioned in the deed was (150) one
hundred and fifty pounds but it is added by Mr. Randolph,
                                    ;




  " I never did receive one                           was only to confirm the title."
                              penny for it   :   it




   He also gave twenty pounds in addition to the land and his
services in obtaining subscriptions.
  From a comparison of dates, it appears that the deed was
given the third day after the meeting of the Board in Prince-
ton to conclude their agreement with the inhabitants of that
place, viz., on the 25th of January, 1753.


                 THE ERECTION OF COLLEGE BUILDINGS.
   At the meeting in Princeton just mentioned, Thomas Leo-
nard, Esq.,       Samuel Woodruff,                    Esq.,   and the Rev. Messrs.
Cowell, William Tennent, Burr, Treat, Brainerd, and Smith,
were appointed a committee " to act in behalf of the Trustees in
building the College, according to the plan agreed upon by the
Board." This committee was also authorized to build a house
for the President, and to draw upon the Treasurer of the Col-
                                                     "
lege for the requisite funds. The plan adopted was,    in gen-

eral," one drawn by Dr. Shippen and Mr. Robert Smith, of

Philadelphia.        Mr. Samuel Hazard and Mr. Robert Smith were
a committee to select the spot and to mark out the ground.
Dr. Shippen and Mr. Hazard were Trustees.   Mr. Smith was
the Architect for the building.
   It was first ordered, " That the College be built of brick, if
good brick can be made at Princeton, and sand be got reason-
ably cheap, and that it be three stories high, and without any
cellar."  At a subsequent meeting it was " Voted, That the Col-
lege be built of stone, and the President's house of wood."
The outer walls of the College were accordingly built of stone
obtained from a quarry near the village, but the President's
house was built of brick. (See Minutes of the Board for July
22, 1754, and for September 25 of the same year.)
   The land upon which these buildings were erected was
!^6     HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

given by N. F. Randolph, from whose memoranda* we gather
the following particulars respecting the College building, viz.,
that the ground for this building was first broken on the 2Qth
of July, 1754, under the direction of Joseph Morrow, and that
the first corner-stone was laid at the northwest corner of the
cellar, by Thomas         Leonard, John Stockton, John Hornor, Wil-
liam Worth (the mason who did the stone and brick work),
N. F. Randolph, and many others. From which we may infer
that the corner-stone           was   laid   by Mr. Leonard, the Chair-
man of the Building Committee, in the presence and with the
assistance of some of the other persons named. Mr. Randolph
adds that in November, 1755, "the roof of said College was
raised by Robert Smith, the carpenter who did the wood-work
of the College."
   This building was originally one hundred and seventy-six
feet in length, fifty-four in width at the two ends, with projec-

tions in the front and in the rear, the front one extending three
or four feet, the one in the rear about twelve feet.           The middle
of the roof was surmounted by a cupola. There were three
stories, with a basement, and, exclusive of the Chapel, there were
in all sixty rooms, sixteen of them in the          basement, or what is
now the cellar.      From the account of the College prepared by
Mr. Samuel Blair, under the direction of President Finley, and
published    in   1764,    it   appears that forty-nine of these rooms
were assigned to the lodging of students, and that they were
deemed sufficient for one hundred and forty-seven, reckoning
three to a chamber.    The other rooms were used for recita-
tion, library, refectory, dining-room, etc.Since the burning of
Nassau Hall, in 1855, none of the sixteen rooms above men-
tioned have been fitted up for the accommodation of students,
as was the case before that time.
   At the time of its erection this College building was the
largest edifice of its kind in the British Provinces of North

  *
    Copies of these memoranda and of other papers of the Randolph family were
very kindly furnished the writer by Colonel J. Ross Snowden, of Philadelphia,
Miss Frances W. Morford, formerly of Princeton, but now of Lynchburg, Vir
ginia, and Mrs. John S. Hart, all of whom are descendants of the   Randolphs of
Princeton.
   ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR,
                                                                     i^j

America, and in view of the very important services rendered
to the College by Governor Belcher, the Trustees, in a very
flattering letter addressed to the Governor, requested his per-
mission to call this building "Belcher Hall."
   With a rare modesty he declined the honor, and at the same
time expressed an earnest desire that the building should be
       "
called   Nassau Hall," in honor of King William the third,
"who was a branch of the illustrious House of Nassau."                It
was therefore ordered by a vote of the Trustees, " that the said
edifice be, in all time to come, called and known by the name
of Nassau Hall."
  From the name given to this first College edifice the College
itself is extensively known      under this appellation.

                      THE RAISING OF FUNDS.
   Of necessity this important matter demanded the attention
of the Trustees from the very beginning of their efforts to erect
a College.   But it was altogether beyond their ability to make
provision for the current expenses of the institution, and at the
same time to erect such buildings as were deemed essential to
the complete success of their enterprise.          The erection of a
large and commodious College building was regarded by them
as scarcely of less importance than the charter itself. It would
seem from some of Governor Belcher's             letters, written   soon
after his arrival in theColony, that he too regarded the erec-
tion of a suitable building and the full establishment of the Col-

lege as almost one and the same thing, or at least he was of
the opinion that without such a building the attempt to estab-
lish a   College must prove a       failure.   In a letter to the Rev.
Gilbert Tennent, of the date of July 30, 1748, the Governor

says, ..." and if, finally, money cannot be raised for the House
and to support the necessary officers, the thing must be given
up."  In a letter, written as early as September 1 8, 1747, to a
committee of the West Jersey Society, the Governor says, " I
find the people of this Province are in a poor situation for edu-

cating their children.     I   am therefore for promoting the build-
ing of a College for the Instruction of Youth. This affair was

agitated before my arrival, and much contested between the
I4 8
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

gentlemen of the Eastern and those of the Western Division,
where it should be placed, and I have got them to agree to have it
built at Princetown, in the Western Division, being
                                                    (I apprehend)
nearest to the centre of the Province."      And in a letter to his
friend Mr. Walley, of Boston, of the date of October 2, 1747,
he writes: "The People ... in many parts of the Province
show a great desire to enjoy the Gospel in Its purity.      There
has been striving at what place the College should be built, and
I   have persuaded those concerned to fix it at Princetown, and I
think   it   as near the centre of the Province as any, and a fine
situation.     ... By the Scarborough I have wrote to several of
my rich Friends in England of this noble design, and I doubt
not of obtaining some Donations from them, and, God sparing
my life, they will find me a faithful friend. These southern
Provinces greatly want such a nursery of Religion and Learn-
ing."
    Neither the Governor nor the Trustees ever lost sight of the
importance of erecting a College building, and to the obtaining
of the requisite funds for this purpose they gave much thought.
Before Governor Belcher entered upon his administration of
the Province the Trustees had gotten subscriptions to the
amount of eight hundred pounds (see letter of Governor
Belcher to Rev. G. Tennent), and before the selection of the
permanent seat of the institution they had received some valu-
able gifts, which, in the low state of the College treasury, were
of great service to their undertaking. Still, they found that
they needed larger funds than could be had in this country;
and they therefore turned their thoughts to the securing of
aid from abroad.     The Rev. Dr. Pemberton, of New York, was
the person first chosen to visit Great Britain but he having
                                                  ;



declined, Mr. Burr was requested to take upon himself the
burden of soliciting funds in England and Scotland. With no
little hesitation Mr. Burr consented to do so,
                                               provided his friend
the Rev. Caleb Smith, then pastor, of the church in Newark
Mountains, now Orange, would agree to take the oversight of
the College during his absence.     Mr. Smith, although disposed
to render the College every assistance in his power, shrank
from this responsibility, on the ground that he did not think
   ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                                     149

himself equal to the task. It is no slight evidence of this gen-
tleman's great worth, as well as of his modesty, that the estimate
of his talents and learning by those best acquainted with them
was far higher than his own.
  The Trustees next requested Rev. Messrs. Gilbert Tennent
and Samuel Davies to visit Great Britain and to solicit aid in
behalf of the College; and having obtained the consent of these
distinguished ministers, they next applied to the Synod of New
York for their sanction, which was unanimously given by that
body. An address to the General Assembly of the Church of
Scotland was prepared, and, after a revision by a committee,
was unanimously approved by the Synod. Certificates of their
appointment by the Synod were also given to Messrs. Tennent
and Davies, and provision was made for supplying their pulpits
during their absence.           The address of the Synod is well worthy
of a place in any and every history of the College, and it may
perhaps be as well inserted in this connection as in any other.


A COPY OF THE ADDRESS TO THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE
                 CHURCH OF SCOTLAND.
  " To the
           very venerable and the very honourable the moderator and other
members of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, to meet at Edin-
burgh, May, 1754. The petition of the Synod of New York, convened at Phila-
delphia, October 3, 1753, humbly showeth     :


  " That a
           college has lately been erected in the province of New Jersey, by his
Majesty's royal charter, in which a number of youth have been already educated,
who are now the instruments of service to the church of God ; and which would
be far more extensively beneficial were it brought to maturity. That after all the
contributions that have been made to said college, or can be raised in these parts,
the fund is far from being sufficient for the erection of suitable buildings, supporting
the president   and tutors, furnishing a library, and defraying other necessary ex-
penses; that the trustees of said college, who ar*^ zealous and active to promote it
for the public good, have already sent their petition to this venerable house for some
assistance in carrying on so important a design ;   and also petitioned the Synod to
appoint two of their members, the Rev. Messrs. Gilbert Tennent and Samuel
Davies, to undertake a voyage to Europe in behalf of said college.
  " Your            therefore most         concur in said          of the trustees
          petitioners                 heartily                 petition
to the Reverend Assembly, and appoint the said Messrs. Tennent and Davies to be
their commissioners for that purpose.
  " And as
             your petitioners apprehend the design of said petition to be of the utmost
importance to the interests of learning and religion in this infant country, and are
confident of the zeal of so pious and learned a body as the General Assembly of
 jijO
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

the Church of Scotland to promote such a design,
                                                   they beg leave to lay before this
venerable house a general representation of the deplorable circumstances of the
churches under their Synodical care, leaving it to the commissioners to descend to
particulars.
   " In the colonies of New
                                York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia,
and Carolina a great number of congregations have been formed upon the Presby-
terian plan, which have put themselves under the
                                                 Synodical care of your petitioners,
who conform to the Constitution of the Church of Scotland, and have adopted her
standards of doctrine, worship, and discipline. There are also
                                                                large settlements
lately planted in various parts, particularly in North and South Carolina, where
multitudes are extremely desirous of the ministrations of the gospel ; but
                                                                           they are
not yet formed into congregations, and regularly organized, for want of ministers.
These numerous bodies of people, dispersed so widely through so many colonies,
have repeatedly made the most importunate applications to your petitioners for
ministers to be sent among them ; and your petitioners have exerted themselves to
the utmost for their relief, both by sending their members and candidates to officiate
some time among them and using all practicable measures for the education of
pious youth for the ministry.
   "
       But, alas, notwithstanding these painful endeavours, your petitioners have been
utterly incapable to make sufficient provision for so many shepherdless flocks ;    and
those that come hundreds of miles crying to them for some to break the bread of
life among them, are often obliged to return in tears, with little or no
                                                                         relief, by
reason of the scarcity of ministers.
   "
    Though every practicable expedient which the most urgent necessity could sug-
gest has been used to prepare labourers for this extensive and growing harvest, yet
the number of ministers in the Synod is far from being equal to that of the
                                                                            congre-
gations under their care.  Though sundry of them have taken the pastoral charge
"of two or three congregations for a time, in order to lessen the number of vacan-

cies ;and though sundry youth have lately been licensed, ordained, and settled in
congregations that were before destitute, yet there are no less than forty vacant
congregations at present under the care of this Synod, besides many more which
are incapable at present to support ministers ; and the whole colony of North

Carolina, where numerous congregations of Presbyterians are forming, and where
there is not one Presbyterian minister settled.
  " The            number of vacancies in the bounds of this Synod is owing, partly,
           great
to new settlements lately made in various parts of this continent,
                                                                     partly to the death
of sundry ministers belonging to this Synod, but principally to the small number of

youth educated for the ministry, so vastly disproportionate to the numerous vacancies;
and unless some effectual means can be taken for the education of proper persons
for the sacred character, the churches of Christ in these parts must continue in the
most destitute circumstances, wandering shepherdless and forlorn through this wil-
derness, thousands perishing for lack of knowledge, the children of God hungry
and unfed, and the rising age growing up in a state little better than that of hea-
thenism with regard to the public ministrations of the gospel.
  " The numerous inconveniences of a            and the
                                          private,        many important advantages
of a public education are so evident, that we need not inform this venerable Assembly
of them, who cannot but be sensible, from happy experience, of the many extensive
benefits of convenient colleges.
    ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR, j^
   " The
            difficulty      (and in some cases the impossibility) of sending youth two,
three, four, or five hundred miles or more, to the colleges of          New England, is evi-
dent at    first   sight.    Now   it   is   from the College of New Jersey only that we can
expect a remedy of these inconveniences it is to that your petitioners look for the
                                                     ;


increase of their numbers ; it is on that the Presbyterian churches through the six
colonies above mentioned principally depend for a 'supply of accomplished minis-
ters ;from that has been obtained considerable relief already, notwithstanding the
many disadvantages that unavoidably attend it in its present infant state            ;
                                                                                         and from
that may be expected a sufficient supply when brought to maturity.
   " Your
            petitioners, therefore, most earnestly pray that this very reverend Assem-
bly would afford the said college all the countenance and assistance in their power.
The young daughter of the Church of Scotland, helpless and exposed in this for-
eign land, cries to her tender and powerful mother for relief.               The cries of minis-
ters oppressed with labours, and of congregations famishing for want of the sincere

milk of the word, implore assistance.               And were the poor Indian savages sensible
of their own case they would join in the cry, and beg for more missionaries to be
sent to propagate the religion of Jesus among them.
  "
    Now, as the College of New Jersey appears the most promising expedient to
redress these grievances, and to promote religion and learning in these provinces,

your petitioners most heartily concur with the trustees, and humbly pray that an act
may be passed by their venerable and honourable Assembly for a national collection
in favour of said college.              And your petitioners, as in duty bound, shall ever
pray," etc.


A COPY OF THE CERTIFICATE FOR MESSRS. GILBERT TENNENT
                 AND SAMUEL DAVIES.
   " The Rev. Messrs. Gilbert Tennent and Samuel
                                                 Davies, the bearers hereof,
undertaking a voyage to Europe by the appointment of the Synod, in concurrence
with the trustees of the College of New Jersey, for services of said college ; the
Synod do hereby certify, that the above reverend gentlemen are worthy and well-
approved members of their body, and do recommend them to the acceptance of the
church of God and the work of their mission, wheresoever Divine Providence may
call them, imploring the         Divine Presence with them and success to their important
undertaking.
                                                         "
                                                             Signed by order of the Synod."

   The appointment of these two gentlemen, Messrs. Tennent
and Davies, was a most happy one for the College. Going with
an earnest recommendation from the Synod, and with letters
from Governor Belcher, they were cordially received by the
Presbyterians of Scotland and Ireland, and the Baptists and
Independents of England, and kindly treated by some of the
prominent statesmen of that day. Their mission was success-
ful beyond all expectation, and they obtained an amount of funds

 which enabled the Trustees to proceed without further delay
 1^2        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

in the erection of their proposed College Hall, and also of a
house for the President and family. What was the precise sum
collected in Great Britain and Ireland cannot now be stated, as
the books of the Treasurer of the College have been lost but                     ;



the minutes of the Board for the 24th of September, 1755, set
forth the fact that the funds were amply sufficient to defray the

expenses incurred in the erection of the buildings above men-
tioned; and that three hundred and fifty pounds sterling, or
more, were also obtained from divers friends in Great Britain
for the education of pious           and indigent youth          for the gospel

ministry.*
       Messrs. Tennent and Davies received in the city of London
alone about twelve hundred pounds sterling.       On their return
from Edinburgh to London, Mr. Tennent went to Ireland, and
to some of the towns in the west of England, and obtained on
this tour five       hundred pounds sterling.           And Mr. Davies col-
lected in the several towns visited by him about four                          hundred
pounds.        And these sums are exclusive, in a great measure at
least,    of the collections     made in the churches in Scotland and
Ireland, by order of the General              Assembly of the Church of
Scotland, and by the Synod of Ulster.
  The youth to be aided from this fund were to be selected by
the Synod, and to receive their education at the College of New
Jersey.  This doubtless may be regarded as the foundation of
the charitable funds of the College, which have been of no
     service to the institution, as well as to the Presbyterian
little

Church, by assisting in the support of a valuable class of
students, whose desire        and aim were to become ministers of
the gospel.        Of the several contributions to this. fund mention
will be made hereafter, f
   For the liberality and kindness of the General Assembly of
the Church of Scotland, the Trustees, by a formal vote, ex-
pressed their grateful acknowledgments.
              "
  In Guild's    History of Brown University" there                        is   a copy
of a letter written from London, April 26, 1768, by the Rev.

  * For a list of the contributors to this particular fund, see printed   " Minutes of
the Synod of New York," pages 264, 265.

  j-
       In Minutes, page 43.
        ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                                         l
                                                                                               *^

Morgan Edwards to President Manning, in which letter the fol-
lowing passage occurs respecting Messrs. Tennent and Davies,
and two other well-known gentlemen, who had visited Great
Britain and Ireland to solicit funds in aid of the important and
benevolent objects of their several missions                           :




    " You must observe also that in
                                             England, as in Ireland, I solicit money towards
endowing the College, and therefore take care that you attend to the design of the
donors.
    "
        Indeed, you have a list of all the sums I received in Ireland, which list was
distributed in the several places where I have been.                The design was to let every
one of them see that I gave true credit for what I have received.              Had Tenn nt,
D       vis,   and Be   ty and      Whit    r, done so,    they -would have prevented suspicions
very injurious to themselves, and to those that come after them on the like errand.
Mr. Raffey told me that he had been called a rogue for aiding the said persons to
raise money in London"



  Mr. Guild, not content to let the letter speak for itself, must
needs add the following note, lest the reader of his book
might not otherwise know who were the gentlemen referred to-
by Mr. Edwards             :




    "In 1753, by request of the Trustees of the College of New Jersey, the Presby-
terian  Synod of New York appointed the Rev. Gilbert Tennent, in conjunction
with the Rev. (afterwards President) Samuel Davis, to cross the Atlantic and solicit
funds for that Institution.  The mission was eminently successful but the only   ;


account of it that remains is found in the diary of Mr. Davis. About the same
time, or a little later, the Rev. Nathaniel Whitaker, accompanied by Samson
Occum, an Indian preacher, solicited funds for Moor's Indian Charity School,
afterwards Dartmouth College. Who the other person was to whom Edwards
refers we are not informed."


    This information      it   is   in   the writer's     power to supply.   He was the    Rev..
Charles Beatty, a       man without reproach and of eminent piety, who was sent
by the Synod of New York and Philadelphia to solicit contributions for the es-
tablishment of a fund to assist aged and disabled ministers and the families of
deceased ministers.       All the gentlemen named discharged their respective trusts,,
in collecting funds and in making report thereof, to the entire satisfaction of those
whose agents they were.              And although there be not now any account of the
moneys collected by Messrs. Tennent and Davies but what is given in the diary
of Mr. Davies, yet it would be perfectly absurd to imagine that they did not give a
detailed report of all the moneys received by them for the College     and for the.  ;


                                                              their thanks, and to
collecting of which the Trustees of the College gave them
each a present of ^50, in addition to the expenses of their agency and of supply-
ing the pulpits during their absence.   The Treasurer's books and papers of that
        VOL. I.    n
^4       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY,                              .




day have long been lost, but whether during the ravages of the Revolutionary War
or by the fire of 1802, which consumed the College edifice, known as Nassau Hall,

together with the Library, Philosophical Apparatus, and other valuables, is unknown.
The election of Mr. Davies, a few years later, as President of the College, in the
absence of all other evidence, would be conclusive as to the fact that his agency
had given the Trustees entire satisfaction ; and it shows that the currency given to
what was doubtless the grossly exaggerated statement of Mr. Raffey, as reported
by Mr. Edwards, was a discourteous treatment of gentlemen in every respect his
equals, not to say his superiors.

   The Rev. Dr. Manning, the first President of Brown Uni-
versity, towhom Mr. Edwards's letter was addressed, was a
graduate of the College of New Jersey in 1762.   He was an
eminently active and useful man, and was held in high repute
as a teacher, a minister, and a patriot.             In 1786 he represented
Rhode Island in the Continental Congress.

                       THE REMOVAL TO PRINCETON.

   The College edifice and the house for the President were
both so far completed by the autumn of 1/56 that the Trus-
tees, at their meeting in September of that year, the time of
the annual Commencement, passed an order for the removal
of the students from Newark to Princeton, and it took place
                                           "
accordingly. The words of this order were    Voted, That the
                                                           :




President move the College to Princeton this Fall, and that the
expense thereof be paid by the Treasurer."
   In Dr. Finley's account of the College it is said to have
taken place in 1757. Dr. Green suggests that President Finley
"
  probably spoke of what might be called a collegiate year,
reckoning from one Commencement to another."
  That the removal actually occurred in the autumn of 1756
we have the testimony of Mr. N. F. Randolph, who, in his
"Memoranda," says     that, "in 1756, Aaron Burr, President,

preached the first sermon, and began the first school in Prince-
ton College." And it also appears from a minute in the Rec-
ords of the Synod of New York for 1757, that a committee of
the Synod met at Princeton on the 2$d of November, 1756, to
examine such students as were candidates to receive assistance
from the fund designed for the support of pious youths.
  At this time, it is estimated that there were seventy pupils
      ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                     [--

in the College.  Everything appeared bright and promising.
Governor Belcher and Mr. Burr had seen their fondest hopes in
regard to the College realized. Their efforts to obtain funds in
Great Britain and Ireland had surpassed their expectations.           A
                                accommodation of more than
college edifice sufficient for the
one hundred students had been erected. A house for the Presi-
dent of the College had also been built. The College was in
good repute at home and abroad, with a prospect of increase
in the number of the pupils and in the resources of the in-
stitution. At the meetings of the Synods of New York and
of Philadelphia in May, 1757, effectual measures were taken
for the union of these two Synods, thus bringing together
into one harmonious body all the Presbyterian ministers and
churches in the several Provinces, and giving hope to the
friends of the College of increased patronage from a united
Church.*
      But scarcely were these things        realized, or rather   looked
forward to with confident expectation, when the two principal
supports of the College were removed from their earthly labors;
and neither of them lived to see a class graduated at Princeton,
  Governor Belcher having died on Wednesday, the 3ist of
August, and President Burr on Saturday, the 24th of September,
1757, four days before the annual Commencement, which took
place on Wednesday, the 28th of September.
  From the day on which Mr. Burr was inaugurated President
of the College, under the second charter, to the Commence-
ment, which occurred on the fourth day after his decease, that
  from the pth of November, 1748, to the 28th of September,
is,

1757,  there were admitted to the first degree in the Arts one
hundred and fourteen young gentlemen who had pursued their
studies under his guidance, and of these, sixty-tivo entered the

ministry.  Thus far, it appears, the College had answered the
design of its founders.
      The first general revival of religion in the College took place
in the last     year of President Burr's administration and of his
life,   the   Lord permitting him to see that the blessing of the

                   * The union was consummated in
                                                    May, 1758.
j^6
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

Almighty had attended his labors for the promotion of piety
and learning in happy union.
  The names of the several Tutors during Mr. Burr's adminis-
tration are as follows, viz.   :




  I.  John Maltby, from 1749 to 1752. Mr. Maltby was a
graduate of Yale, and was a descendant of the Rev. Abraham
Pierson, the first President of that College. For several years
        "
he was the much-loved pastor" of a church in the island of
Bermuda. He died in 1771.
    2. Samuel Sherwood, from 1750 to 1752.

      3.   Jonathan Badger, from 1752 to 1755.
   4.      Alexander Gordon, from 1752 to 1754.
      5.   George Duffield, from 1754 to 1756.
   6.      William Thompson, from 1755 to 1756.
      7.   Benjamin Y. Prime, from 1756 to 1757.
      John Ewing, from 1756 to 1758.
      8.

   9. Isaac Smith, from 1757 to 1758.
  10. Jeremiah Halsey, from 1757 to 1767.

  11. Joseph Treat, from 1758 to 1760.

  The following gentlemen were chosen Trustees during Mr.
Burr's presidency:
      1.   James Neilson, Esq., in 1749; resigned in 1754.
      2.   Samuel Woodruff, Esq., in 1749; died in 1768.
      3.   Rev. John Frelinghuysen, in 1750; died in 1755.
   4.      Rev. Caleb Smith, in 1750; died in 1763. He was pastor
of the church at Newark Mountains, now Orange, New Jersey.
      5.   Rev. Thomas Thompson, in 1751    ;
                                                died in 1752.
   6. Rev. Samuel Finley, in 1751 resigned in 1761.
                                       ;
                                                                In this
year he was chosen President of the College.
   7.      Rev. Elihu Spencer, in 1752; died in 1784.
   8.      Rev. John Brainerd, in 1754; died in 1780.
   9.      Rev. Alexander Cumming, in 1756; resigned in 1761.
  10.      Rev. Charles McKnight, in 1757; died in 1778.
  II.      Richard Stockton, Esq., in 1757; died in 1781.
  Of the one hundred and fourteen graduates who, from 1747
to 1757, pursued their studies under the direction of President
Burr, more than half became preachers of the gospel, and about
forty were men of more or less note in their respective callings,
   ADMINISTRATION- AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                   l
                                                                     ~y

and of these not a few were quite eminent.         To begin with
instructors in this and in other institutions: of the class of

   1752. The Rev. Jeremiah Halsey, A.M., for ten years a Tutor,
a Professor elect of Mathematics, and then a Trustee.
   1754.   The Rev. John Ewing, S.T.D., for two years a Tutor
in this College, Professor in the University of Pennsylvania,
and also Provost of the same.
  1754. William Shippen, M.D.        The first Professor of Anat-
omy   in the   University of Pennsylvania.
  1757. James Smith, M.D.    The first Professor of Materia
Medica in King's (Columbia) College, New York.

             MEMBERS OF THE CONTINENTAL CONGRESS.

   1748. Hon. Richard Stockton, New Jersey; a signer of the
Declaration of Independence ; a Trustee of the College.

   1749. Hon. William Burnet, New Jersey ; also Surgeon-Gen-
eral of the United States Army.

   1751. Hon. Nathaniel Scudder,      New Jersey;    a Trustee of
the College.

  1752. Hon. Samuel Livermore, of            New Hampshire;      also
United States Senator, etc., etc.
  1754.    Hon. William Shippen, M.D., of Pennsylvania;               a
Trustee of the College.
  1755.    Hon. Joseph Montgomery, of Pennsylvania; from 1784
to 1788.

  1756.    Hon. Jesse Root, LL.D., of Connecticut; also Chief
Justice of Connecticut.
  1757.    Hon. Joseph Reed, of New Jersey and Pennsylvania;
also, in 1784, President of the Pennsylvania State Convention         ;




a Trustee of the College, etc.


                  OF THE UNITED STATES SENATE.

  1756.    Hon. Alexander Martin, LL.D., of North Carolina,

               OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

  1755.    Hon. Isaac Smith, of New Jersey; also a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Jersey.
jc;S
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.


          SECRETARY OF THE PROVINCE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

     1753. Joseph Shippen, Esq.

                          HIGH SHERIFF OF LONDON.

     1757. Stephen Sayre, Esq.

  As those gentlemen whose names are about to be given are
not included in any of the above lists, they will be mentioned
in   the order of their admission to the first degree in the Arts:
     1748. Rev. Hugh Henry, Rehoboth, Maryland.
     1748. Rev. Israel Reed, A.M., of Bound Brook, New Jersey;
a Trustee of the College.

     1749. Rev.   John       Brown,   New    Providence,      Rockbridge
County, Virginia.
  1749. Rev. John Todd, A.M.          ;
                                          successor to the Rev. Samuel
Davies as minister of the Providence church, Virginia.
     1750. Rev. Daniel Farrand, A.M.; minister of a Congrega-
tional church in South Canaan, Connecticut.

     1750. Rev.   Samuel McClintock, D.D.        ;
                                                     minister of a Con-

gregational church in Greenland, New Hampshire.
     1750. Benjamin       Youngs Prime, M.D.; Tutor;          an elegant
classical   scholar   ;
                          a practitioner of medicine     and surgery   in

the city of New York.
     1750. Rev.   Robert Henry, A.M.;           pastor   of   Cub Creek
church, Charlotte County, Virginia.
     1752. Rev.   George Duffield, D.D.;         Tutor    and   Trustee;
pastor of the Third Church, Philadelphia.
   1752. Rev. Nathaniel Whitaker, D.D., of Connecticut;                re-
ceived his degree from St. Andrew's, Scotland.
     1753. Rev. John Harris, of Delaware and South Carolina.
     1753. Dr. Robert Harris, of Philadelphia; for fifty-four years
a Trustee of the College.
   1753. Rev. Hugh McAden, A.M., a native of Pennsylvania;
pastor of the churches in Duplin and New Hanover, North
Carolina.

   1754. Rev. Hugh          Knox, D.D.; minister at St. Croix, West
Indies.
   ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR,                            ^g
  1754.      David Matthews, A.M.; Mayor of New York in 1775;
a Loyalist.
   1754. Rev. William Ramsay, A.M.     ;   pastor of Fairfield church,
Connecticut.
   1/55.     Thaddeus Burr, A.M.; a lawyer        in       Fairfield,   Con-
necticut.

   1755. Rev. Wheeler Case, A.M.; pastor of Pleasant Valley
church, Dutchess County,  New York author of a volume of
                                            ;




poems.
   1756. Rev. Azel Roe, D.D., of     Woodbridge, New Jersey; a
Trustee of the College.
   1757. Rev. William Kirkpatrick,         A.M., of Amwell,             New
Jersey a Trustee of the College.
         ;




   1757. Rev. Alexander McWhorter, D.D., of                 Newark,     New
Jersey a Trustee of the College.
         ;




   1757.     Henry Wells, A.M., M.D., of Brattleborough, Vermont.

                     MEMOIR OF PRESIDENT BURR.

  The Rev. Aaron Burr was born in Fairfield County, Connec-
     on the 4th of January, 1716. He was the youngest son
ticut,
of Daniel Burr, whose father and paternal grandfather were
both named John.         The elder John came to             Fairfield   from
                                                       "
Springfield, Massachusetts.     (See Dr. Stearns's         Historical Dis-

courses," page 151.)
  In their respective sketches of the life of President Burr, Drs.
Allen, Green, and Sprague agree in representing him as de-
scended from the learned and pious Jonathan Burr, a non-con-
formist preacher who came from England in 1639, and settled
in Dorchester, Massachusetts, where he died in 1641.  John
Burr, the      second son of the Rev. Jonathan Burr, of Dor-
chester, settled    in Fairfield County probably about the time

that the first John came from Springfield to Fairfield, and this
fact,mentioned by Dr. Allen in his " Biographical Dictionary,"
may have given rise to the conjecture that President Burr was
descended from the Rev. Jonathan Burr. Dr. Allen expressly
says that Daniel Burr, the father of President Burr, was de-
scended from John Burr. But this cannot be unless Daniel's
j6         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

mother was a daughter of John Burr, of which we have no evi-
dence or even any intimation.
     The true account, therefore, of this matter is the one given
by the Rev. Dr. Stearns, and for it he acknowledges himself in-
debted to the Rev. Dr. L. H. Atwater, then of Fairfield, but now
of Princeton, who at Dr. Stearns's request ascertained the facts
of the case. And here it may not be amiss to say that the fullest
and the best sketch of the life of President Burr of which we
have any knowledge is the one given by Dr. Stearns, in his
"
    Historical       Discourses"     relative   to   the   First    Presbyterian
Church of Newark.
  President Burr was graduated at Yale College in the autumn
of 1735, being at that time in the twentieth year of his age. At
the completion of the usual College course he was a success-
ful competitor for one of the classical scholarships founded at

Yale by Berkeley, the eminent and learned Bishop of Cloyne                     ;


and having obtained this prize, he continued his studies at New
Haven for another year. It was during this year that he be-
came deeply and permanently interested in the subject of re-
ligion, and, hoping that he was called of God to                   engage in the
work of the ministry, he resolved to devote himself to it with
all his heart.        And this he did.      Upon being licensed as a can-
didate for the sacred office, he left New England and came to
New Jersey.   Here he labored for a short time at Hanover, in
Morris County, and while there he attracted the attention of
the church in Newark, which was then without a pastor.    At
first    he was invited to preach at Newark for one year, begin-
ning the loth of January, 1737. At the expiration of this
time he was invited to assume the pastoral office, and, accept-
ing the invitation, he was ordained on the 25th of January,
1738, by the Presbytery of East Jersey, with which Presbytery
the church of Newark was then connected.
    "
        The settlement of Mr. Burr," says Dr. Stearns, " was a most
auspicious event."            This remark has special reference to the
church which had just given him a unanimous call to become
their pastor  but it is equally true with respect to the interests
                 ;



of religion and learning within the limits of the entire Presby-
terian    Church       in   this   country, of which he was an eminent
   ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR,                    j6i

minister, surpassed   by none in devotion to his work, or, as far
as we can judge, in the greatness and successful prosecution of
his various and arduous labors.
   Within eighteen months after Mr. Burr's settlement at New-
ark, the divine blessing manifestly rested upon his ministrations
there the people of his charge were favored with a most re-
     :




markable outpouring of the Spirit, and among all classes, young
and old, there was such an awakening to their spiritual inter-
ests as produced a wonderful change in the whole community.
This unusual attention to religion continued for nearly two
years, and during this period they had one or more visits from
the pious and eloquent Whitefield, for whom Mr. Burr seems
to have entertained the highest respect, which was fully recip-
rocated by this famous itinerant for the gospel's sake.
   Soon after his settlement at Newark, Mr. Burr became deeply
interested in the matter of Christian missions among the Indian
tribes of this country,   and united with his friends, the Rev.
Messrs. Dickinson and Pemberton, in directing the attention of
the Society in Scotland for Propagating Christian Knowledge
to this field of labor. The result of their correspondence was
that they were chosen correspondents of the Society, and were
authorized to employ two missionaries at the expense of the
Society.  This led to the appointment of David Brainerd and
of Azariah Horton as missionaries to the American Indians.
  Mr. Burr took an active part in the proceedings of the Church
courts of which he was a member, and even in regard to matters
in which the feelings of the members were strongly enlisted, he
did not hesitate to act in accordance with his convictions   ;   yet
always exhibiting good sense and a Christian temper, he never
failed in securing the respect and esteem of those from whom
he differed in opinion.
  His zeal in behalf of learning was conspicuous from the be-
ginning of his ministry. Before a charter was obtained for the
College of New Jersey, Mr. Burr established a classical school
in Newark, doubtless for the special, though not for the exclu-

sive, benefit of the youth of his pastoral charge. In the efforts
to obtain a charter for a college he took a prominent part         ;



and when, upon the decease of President Dickinson, he became
!62       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

the head of the institution, his untiring                 labors in     its   behalf
ceased only with his life.
   Of the success which attended these labors mention was
made in speaking of his administration of the affairs of the
College but of his liberality to it, when it was without funds
            ;



sufficient to meet its necessary expenses, we have not spoken.
It   has been said that for the            first   three years   he received no
salary from the College.* And it is true that in the minutes
of the Trustees no mention is made of any order or vote for
the payment to          him of any moneys until the meeting of the
Board, at Newark, on the 26th of September, 1750.        In the
record of this meeting there is the following minute: "Ordered,
That the Clerk be allowed        5 per annum for his trouble, and

that      5 be reserved for Defraying the Incidental charges of the
Corporation    and that the Residue of the Interest in the Treas-
                  ;


urer's hands be paid the President for his services till further
orders."   This was at the end of the second year of Mr. Burr's
presidency under the second charter. The three years men-
tioned in the Obituary probably included the year that he had
the charge of the College under the first charter.
     The moneys in the hands of the Treasurer were those re-
ceived from the lottery drawn in Philadelphia, and from dona-
tions, the first of which was a gift of fifty pounds proc. from the
Hon. James Alexander, Esq.,     father of Major-General Lord

Stirling.About this time, also, Colonel John Alford, of Boston,
gave one hundred pounds to the College. The above-men-
tioned order seems to indicate that the Clerk's compensation
and the incidental expenses were paid from the interest of
moneys in the hands of the Treasurer, and doubtless the Treas-
urer's salary of ten pounds a year, mentioned in a previous

order, was paid from the same fund.   This arrangement would
leave the tuition-fees to be distributed to the President and

Tutors; each of the Tutors probably receiving a fixed stipend^
and the President the remainder.
     The first mention of a fixed compensation to the President

     * See Dr. Stearns's " Historical Discourses," page 185, and obituary notice, from
the " New York Mercury," on page 206.
     ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                                   1
                                                                                      63

is in    the minutes of the Trustees for May 2, 1754, and in these
words      :
            "Voted, That the President's salary be ^150 proc. for
the year following the next Commencement."*
     How much he received of the interest from the vested funds
of the College, as ordered   by the Board at their meeting in
September, 1750,  from  this date to September, 1754, when his

salary, independent of the graduation-fees, was fixed at one hun-
dred and fifty pounds a year, we have no means of ascertaining.
But it is morally certain that his entire income from the sources
named was a very meagre one compared with the services ren-
dered; and this fact shows the sacrifices made by him for the
cause of religion and learning while laboring so earnestly for
the upbuilding of the College; and it also shows the generous
spirit of the man,        who lost sight of his own interests in efforts
to serve his fellow-men.   Well, therefore, might the Trustees,
upon his decease and immediately before electing one to suc-
ceed him in the office of President, adopt the following resolu-
tion on the subject of the President's salary, which for the last

year of Mr. Burr's life was two hundred and fifty pounds                      :




     * At the same
                     meeting it was also "Voted, That each of the two Tutors have
^40 proc. yearly     ;
                       and provided they tarry four years that they have ^40 gratuity,
ifrecommended by the President as having faithfully discharged their Trusts.
The said salaries are to take place after the next Commencement." By a vote of
the Board, at a meeting held September 27, 1752, two years before, each Tutor
was allowed for his services twenty pounds sterling a year, reckoned to be at that
time equal to thirty pounds 'proc.
  The tuition-fees were fifteen shillings/;-^, a quarter, or three pounds a year. On
the supposition that there were thirty students in the four classes during each of the
first   three years, and, judging from the   number of graduates in those years, the
average could hardly have been less, the entire income from the tuition-fees would
have been two hundred and seventy pounds proc. For the first year there was but
one Tutor, and the entire sum paid to the Tutors for these years did not exceed
one hundred and fifty pounds proc., which would leave one hundred and twenty
pounds for the President for the three years, or an average of forty pounds proc. a
year.
     By an ordinance of the Board, passed on      the day of the first College Com-
                             " admitted to the honor of a
mencement, each student                                   Degree was required to pay
                                       From this source he should have received,
to the President thirty shillings proc."
and probably did, about ten pounds more a year, making the yearly income from
these two sources about fifty pounds proclamation money, which is only one-third
of the salary voted to him by the Board for one year from September, 1754.
!64
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
  " The Trustees
                    having considered that the salary which the last year was voted
to the   Rev. President Burr was considerably increased on account of his constant
Attention, great Zeal, and indefatigable Labors for the College; and more espe-
cially for that the said President Burr, for some years in the fore Part of the Exe-
cuting his said Office, had done    many and great services for said College, for
which he has never received any pecuniary consideration; and that any President,
who now or hereafter may be chosen, cannot, for the service of this office for some
Time, deserve so well of this Board It is therefore Ordered, that the salary of the
                                     :




President for the time being shall be the sum of two hundred Pounds proclamation

money of this Province, during the ensuing year, together with the use of the Presi-
dent's house,* and the improved Lands, with Liberty of getting his Firewood on
the Lands belonging to the Corporation."

   That Mr. Burr devoted himself to the upbuilding of the Col-
lege without regard to the emolument to be derived therefrom
is abundantly evident from the record just cited, and this fact

shows that he was as generous as he was wise and laborious.
It is no wonder that such a man should command the unlimited

respect and confidence of all persons associated with him in his
efforts to promote the cause of religion and learning.
   For several years Mr. Burr discharged the duties both of
pastor of the Newark church and of President of the College,
but, in consequence of the increased number of students, and in
view of the intended removal of the College, it was deemed best
that Mr, Burr should devote himself exclusively to the instruc-
tion of the students and to the general interests of the College;
and therefore at their meeting, September 25, 1754, the Trustees
appointed a committee to wait upon the Presbytery of New
York, and to ask from that body a dissolution of Mr. Burr's
pastoral relation to the church of Newark.       This application
was accordingly made to the said Presbytery, and the petition
of the Trustees was granted.
   The church was very reluctant to give up their beloved and
faithful pastor, whose labors among them had been signally
blessed of God; but, in view of the great importance of the
College, and of Mr. Burr's relations to it, they finally acquiesced
in the decision of the Presbytery as right and proper.

  * The mention of the President's house in this connection, and the manner of

mentioning it, indicate that it had been occupied by Mr. Burr and his family. This
resolution was adopted on the 27th of September, 1757, three days after the decease
of President Burr.
     ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OF PRESIDENT BURR.                                   j5$

    As a scholar, a teacher, and a preacher, Mr. Burr was held
in the highest esteem by his cotemporaries.                His success in the
discharge of his varied and responsible duties is evidence of his
great intellectual vigor and of his indomitable energy; and the
results seem to justify what to some may appear to be only the

extravagant eulogies of warm personal friendships on the part
of those who have left us memorials of Mr. Burr's life and
labors as seen by themselves.
  His publications were a Latin Grammar, commonly known as
the Newark Grammar; a treatise entitled "The Supreme Deity
of our Lord Jesus Christ, maintained in a Letter to the Editor
of Mr. Emlyn's Inquiry," reprinted in Boston in 1791                  ;
                                                                              "A Fast
Sermon, on account of the Encroachment of the French, and
their Designs against the British Colonies in America, delivered
                               "
at Newark, January I, 1/55;"     The Watchman's Answer to the
Question, What of the night ?' (Isaiah xxi. 11,12.)
              '
                                                    Sermon           A
before the Synod of New York, convened at Newark, Septem-
ber, 1750;" and a funeral sermon, at Elizabethtown, on the
occasion of Governor Belcher's death, September 4, 1757. The
sermon before the Synod was delivered by him at the opening
of Synod's sessions, he having been the Moderator of the Synod
at their    meeting the year previous.            The preparation and the
preaching of the funeral             sermon   for Governor Belcher, under
the exposure and the fatigue to which he had been recently
subjected, brought on the extreme prostration and the accom-
panying fever which ended in his own death.*
  It is not probable that, with the immense burden resting upon

him almost perpetually after he took charge of the College, he
was able to prepare for the press any other works than those
enumerated above; but the writer of this article learned from
Colonel Burr, the only son of President Burr, that his father's

  * Mrs. Burr, in
                  acknowledging the receipt of a letter addressed to President
Burr by one of his friends in Scotland, thus refers to this last discourse " I here
                                                                              :



enclose you, sir, the last attempt my dear husband made to serve God in public,
a sermon which he preached at the funeral of our late excellent Governor.          You
will not think it strange, ifhas imperfections, when I tell you that all he wrote
                                it

on the subject was done in a part of one afternoon and evening, when he had a
violent fever on him, and the whole night after he was irrational."       (
                                                                              Edwards's
"
    Life," page 566.)
!66     HISTORY OF 7W            COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

papers, and some of his own, which had been left for safe-keep-
ing in the hands of his daughter, Mrs. Theodosia Allston, were
lost with   her upon her last voyage from Charleston, South
Carolina, to New York, the ship having no doubt foundered at
sea, as it was never heard from after leaving port.
  On the 27th of June, 1752, Mr. Burr was united in marriage
with Esther, the third daughter of the Rev. Jonathan Edwards,
his successor in office. Mrs. Burr is spoken of as a lady re-
markable for her beauty of person, her intelligence and piety,
and as admirably suited to the station she was called to occupy
as the wife of President Burr, whom she survived less than
a year, dying on the /th of April, 1758, a few weeks after the
decease of her father, President Edwards. She left two chil-
dren, a son and a daughter. The son was Colonel Aaron Burr,
at one time Vice-President of the United States               ;
                                                                  the daughter,
Sarah Burr, the elder of the two children, was married to the
Hon. Tappan Reeve, an eminent lawyer, who was for some
years Chief Justice of Connecticut, and founder of the famous
Law School of Litchfield in that State.
  On his death-bed, Mr. Burr gave directions that no unneces-
sary parade should be made at his funeral, and no expenses
incurred beyond what Christian decency required and that the      ;



sum which must be expended at a fashionable funeral above
the necessary cost of a decent one should be given to the poor
out of his estate.*
  Upon the death of President Burr, a eulogy and a funeral ser-
mon were prepared and published by two of his intimate friends,
the eulogy by William Livingston, Esq., of New York, but
subsequently the .first Governor of New Jersey after the Revo-
lution, the sermon by the Rev. Caleb Smith, of Newark
Mountains.        The sermon was prepared and preached at the
request of the Trustees of the College, and published at their
expense.      Amonumental stone was placed over President
Burr's grave      by order of the Trustees, and at their request the
                    it was prepared by the Hon. William Smith,
inscription for


  * President Edwards, six months after,
                                           requested his own funeral might be con-
ducted in the manner Mr. Burr's was.
    ADMINISTRATION AND LIFE OP PRESIDENT BURR.                             I6 7


Esq., a member of the Board.    Obituary notices of President
                          "
Burr appeared both in the   New York Mercury" and in the
"
  Pennsylvania Gazette." It is believed, and it is by no means
                                                   "
improbable, that the one in the   Gazette" was written by its
eminent editor, Benjamin Franklin. It was as follows: " Sept.
29, 1757.      Last Saturday died the Rev. Aaron Burr, President
of the      New Jersey College, a gentleman and a Christian, as
universally beloved as known               ;
                                               an agreeable companion, a faith-
ful friend, a tender and affectionate
                                    husband, and a good father                ;



remarkable for his industry, integrity, strict honesty, and pure,
undissembled piety          ;
                                his benevolence as disinterested as uncon-

fined, an excellent preacher, a great scholar, and a very great
man."  After citing this notice, Dr. Stearns makes the follow-
               "
ing comment      The glowing eulogy of William Livingston,
                  :




supported by the plain, unvarnished statements of Caleb Smith,
and endorsed by the weighty testimony of Benjamin Franklin,
seems to leave little more to be desired in attestation of the gen-
uine merit of the subject of its commendation ;" and yet the
writer will venture to add the testimony of President Edwards in
his letter of October 19, 1757, to the Trustees of the College                :


"
  This makes me shrink at the thought of taking upon me in
the decline of life such a new and great business, attended with
such a multiplicity of cares, and requiring such a degree of
                   and spirit of government, especially as suc-
activity, alertness,

ceeding one so remarkably well qualified in these respects,
giving occasion to every one to remark the wide difference."
    The following is the inscription on President Burr's tomb-
stone   :




                                           M. S.
                                Reverend! admodum Viri,
              Aaronis Burr, A.M., Collegii Neo-Caesariensis Prsesidis,
              Natus apud    fairfield Connecticutensium IV. Januarii
                               A.D. MDCCXVI. S. V.
                      Honesta in eadem Colonia Familia oriundus,
                                Collegio Yalensi innutritus.
                      Novarcse Sacris initiatus, MDCCXXXVIII.
                        Annos circiter viginti pastoral! munere
                                     Fideliter functus.

                Collegii N. C.     Presidium MDCCXLVIII accepit,
               In NassovicE Aulam sub finem MDCCLVI translatus.
HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY

       Defunctus in hoc Vico 24 Septembris
               A.D.       MDCCLVII. S. N.
        Aetatis XLII.           Eheu quam brevis      !




     Huic Marmori subjicitur, quod mori potuit
        Quod immortale, venclicarunt coeli            :




       Quaeris Viator qualis quantusque fuit ?
                 Perpaucis accipe.
            Vir corpore parvo ac tenui,
       Studiis, vigiliis, assiduisque Laboribus,
                              Macro.
        Sagacitate, Perspicacitate, Agilitate,
               Ac Solertia, (si fas dicere)
                   Plusquam humana, pene
                            Angelica.
                     Anima ferme totus,
          Omnigena Literatura instructus,
              Theologia prsestantior          :



       Concionator volubilis, suavis et suadus;
                 Orator facundus ;
       Moribus facilis, candidus et jucundus ;
         Vita egregie liberalis ac beneficus ;

            Supra vero omnia emicuerunt
                   Pietas ac Benevolentia.
          Sed ah      !
                          quanta et quota Ingenii,
          Industrie, Prudentiae, Patientise,
          Caeterarumque omnium Virtutum
                           Exemplaria,
          Marmoris sepulchralis Angustia
                             Reticebit.
            Multum desideratus, multum
                             Dilectus,
               Humani generis Delicise,
           O   !    infandum sui Desiderium,
                    Gemit Ecclesia, plorat
                         Academia         :




             At Ccelum plaudit, dum ille
                            Ingreditur
                    In Gaudium Domini
                          Dulce loquentis,
                     Euge bone et fidelis
                              Serve   !




           Abi Viator tuam respice finem          !
                     CHAPTER VII.
THE ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT OF 1757, AND THE ELECTION AND
             ADMINISTRATION OF PRESIDENT EDWARDS.

  THE Commencement of 1757 took place at Princeton, on
Wednesday, the 28th of September, just four days after the de-
cease of President Burr.   On this occasion the Trustees, with
one exception, were all present. At their request the Hon.
William Smith, a member of the Board, presided at the Com-
mencement exercises, and conferred the usual degrees. The
two oldest ministers of their number, viz., the Rev. John Pier-
son and the Rev. Gilbert Tennent, were chosen to open and to
conclude the exercises with prayer. Twenty-two candidates
were admitted to the first degree in the Arts, and four to the
second degree.
   At this meeting of the Board, the Trustees ordered that the
diploma   fees for this Commencement be paid to Mrs. Burr
"
  for her proper use."  They also ordered, "That any sum not
exceeding Twenty Pounds be laid out in erecting a monument
to the memory of the late President Burr."    Mr. Robert Smith
was " desired to provide a proper marble stone for the pur-
pose," and the Hon. William Smith was "requested to prepare
a Latin inscription for said monument."
   The Rev. Caleb Smith was requested to prepare a funeral
sermon on the occasion of Mr. Burr's death, and to print the
same at the expense of the College. With this request he
complied, and his excellent discourse is the source from which
our knowledge of Mr. Burr's labors and life is mainly de-
rived. The Hon. William Smith prepared the Latin inscription,
which being referred to the Rev. Messrs. Caleb Smith and
Jacob Green, and revised by them, was engraved on the marble
monument.
   VOL. I.   12                                       169
 If
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  Governor Belcher having died on the 3ist of August, 1757,
Samuel Woodruff and Robert Ogden, Esquires, were requested
by the Trustees "to see that all the Books, with the other
Things given by his Excellency for the use of the College, be
conveyed to this Place."

            THE ELECTION OF THE REV. JONATHAN EDWARDS.
      On the day following, viz., Thursday, the 29th of September,
1757, the Trustees took into consideration the propriety of ap-
pointing at once a successor to President Burr. The minute in
regard to it is in these words             :




     " A choice of a President being proposed to the Board, it was ordered to be put
to    Vote whether the said President be now chosen or not; which being Voted
accordingly, was carried in the affirmative.
  "
    Whereupon after Prayers particularly on this occasion, and the number of
Trustees present being twenty, the Rev. Mr. Jonathan Edwards, of Stockbridge,
was chosen by a majority of seventeen ; and this Board requests that Messrs. Liv-
ingston and Spencer, of their Number, would draw the draught of a Letter re-
questing that the said Mr. Edwards would accept of the said choice ; and also of an
Address to the Honorable the Commissioners for propagating the Gospel among
the Heathen in America, in the province of Massachusetts, requesting the said
Commissioners to liberate the said Mr. Edwards from his pastoral charge of the
Indian Congregation at Stockbridge and the Mission given him by the said Com-
-rnissioners ;   and that the said Letter and Address be signed in behalf of this Board
by the Clerk of the same."


      Previously to engaging in this election, the Trustees voted,
"That the       salary of the .President should be two hundred
pounds proclamation money of the Province, together with the
use of the President's house and the Improved lands, with
Liberty of getting his Fire-wood on the land belonging to the
Corporation."
   It was also voted that twenty pounds should be paid to the

 Rev. Mr. Edwards for the expenses of moving his family to
Princeton.  The committee appointed to prepare a draft of
a letter to Mr. Edwards, and of an address to the Commis-
sioners above mentioned, brought in the said drafts which,                  ;




being read, were approved, and the Clerk was ordered to tran-
scribe the same and to send them as soon as may be to the

persons for whom they were designed.
            ELECTION OF THE REV. JONATHAN EDWARDS.                                 iyi

   In reference to the grammar-school connected with the Col-
lege, the following minute was              made by order of the Board             :




  " Mr. President Burr in his life-time                                       Grammar
                                        having set up and carried on a
School in this College, which by his death will now fail unless proper care be
taken for its support, the Trustees therefore, in Consideration of its importance in

general and in particular to this Society, do agree to take the said School under their
immediate Direction and Government, and do appoint Mr. Montgomerie to be the
Master of the said School, and that Mr. McWhorter* serve as an Usher under him
for the ensuing year ;   and if the School continues to consist of Twenty Scholars or
upwards, said Master shall be allowed forty-five Pounds, and the Usher fifteen
Pounds, provided he gives his attendance in the School three hours in the Day            ;



but in case the School decrease to sixteen or under, then the Master shall have the

Charge of said School, and be entitled to three Quarters of the Tuition Money.
The Tuition Money for each student to be four Pounds per annum."

   At this meeting provision was also made for the temporary
oversight and inspection of the College, by the appointment of
the Rev. William Tennent President pro tern., and authority
was given to the Clerk to call an extra meeting of the Board at
any time within three months. And in case Mr. Edwards
should not attend and accept the office of President of the Col-
lege at the end of the vacation, the Clerk was instructed to re-
                                                                                  u
quest Mr. Isaac Smith, a graduate of the College in 1755,                              to
act in the Place of a Tutor until the President can attend."

  During the last year of his Presidency Mr. Burr was assisted
by two excellent Tutors, viz., Benjamin Youngs Prime, a grad-
uate of the College in 1751, and John Ewing, a graduate in

1754.   Mr. Prime having tendered his resignation, the Board
adopted the following resolution, viz.                :




  " Mr.
            Prime, one of the Tutors, applying to this Board for a Dismission from
his office, It is ordered, that at the request of the saidMr. Prime he be dismissed
accordingly.     Nevertheless, the Trustees being fully sensible of the abilities of the
said Mr. Prime, and of his having faithfully executed his said Office during the
Time of his continuance therein, do with great Reluctance part with the said Mr.
Prime   ;
         and as a Testimony of their sense of his good Conduct land Merit, do pre-
sent him with the  sum of Ten Pounds over and above his salary, and are Sorry
that the smallness of their Fund will not admit of their giving him a larger sum."


   At this time the usual salary of a Tutor in this College was

  * The Mr. McWhorter mentioned in           this   minute is the Rev. Dr. Alexander
McWhorter, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Newark, who had just been
admitted to his first degree in the Arts.
Ij 2
            Iff STORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

forty pounds a year, but at this meeting of the Board it was in-
creased to fifty pounds a year and in the case of Mr. Ewing
                                           ;



itwas also voted, " That this Board, in consideration of the ex-
traordinary services which are justly expected of Mr. Ewing,
a Tutor for the ensuing year, will allow the said Mr. Ewing
the sum of fifty pounds over and above the aforesaid salary."
The Mr. Ewing here mentioned is the well-known scholar and
divine, the       Rev. Dr. John Ewing, for many years the distin-
guished Provost of the University of Pennsylvania.
  At their present session the Trustees also enacted several
additional rules with respect to the conduct of the students in
the College edifice, which rules had been prepared by a com-
mittee appointed at the last meeting of the Board, and of which
committee Mr. Burr was the first named.
     " The eleventh of these rules was as follows       '
                                                    :
                                                            Every student shall pay four shil-
lings per Quarter for Study-rent, sweeping their             Rooms, and making their Beds ;
and such as smoke or chew Tobacco, five shillings, and one shilling for incidental
            "
charges.'

     The Rev. Caleb Smith having tendered his                              resignation as
Clerk of the Board, in consequence of his residence being now
at a distance from the College, by its removal to Princeton,
Richard Stockton, Esq., a member of the Board, was unani-
mously chosen Clerk in the room of Mr. Smith, and generously
undertook to discharge the duties of his office as Clerk without
compensation.
  The next meeting of the Trustees took place on the I4th of
December, 1757, thirteen members being present, and the Hon.
Thomas Leonard, Esq., in the chair.
  The Trustees, taking into consideration a letter from Mr.
Edwards in relation to his dismission from his pastoral charge
at Stockbridge, voted,
     "
    That it is highly proper that one of their members do endeavor, if possible, to
attend the Ecclesiastical Council who are to convene for that purpose, and there

represent in behalf of this Board the Reasons for the propriety of such Dismission."

      Continuing their session through the following day, the
Trustees, on the morning of the I5th, voted,
  " That if the Rev. Mr. Edwards come and take
                                                     upon him the Charge of the
College this Winter, that he be entitled to the President's salary for the whole of
           ELECTION OF THE REV. JONATHAN EDWARDS.                                  l
                                                                                       ^
this year; and that he have the liberty of receiving one-half of his salary at the
end of six months from the last Commencement."

   At their meeting, April 19, the Trustees ordered the Treasurer
to pay to the executors of Mr. Edwards one hundred pounds, a

half-year's salary.
    The next record is as follows            :




   " The Rev. Messrs. Caleb Smith and
                                            John Brainerd are requested immediately
to proceed to Stockbridge, if possible, to attend the Ecclesiastical Council to con-
vene relative to Mr. Edwards's Dismission; and that the sum of              ^20 be paid
them for their services."

  It appears from the minutes of this meeting that the Rev.

William Tennent, "for his services in inspecting the government
of the College," was paid eleven pounds, and that the Rev.
David Cowell, of Trenton, was chosen President until the next
meeting of the Trustees, and that, accepting the appointment,
he was qualified as the charter directs.
  " It was
              voted, That the President of the College and the Clerk for the time being
(viz.,   Rev. David Cowell and Richard Stockton, Esq.) be a Committee to transact
the affairs about Mr. Edwards's Removal," with power to add to their number.

   Messrs. Caleb Smith and John Brainerd attended the Eccle-
siastical Council at Stockbridge, and secured the release
                                                      of Mr.
Edwards from his pastoral charge, and in the latter part of Jan-
uary he repaired to Princeton. The Council, as appears from
a letter of Mr. Edwards, of the date of December I, 1757, to
his friend and former pupil, Mr. Bellamy, of Bethlehem, was
called for the 2ist of the same month, but for some reason not
now known it did not assemble until the 4th of January follow-
ing. The decision of the Council having been announced to
Mr. Edwards and to the church of which he was pastor, he
submitted to their judgment, and made his arrangements to go
without delay to Princeton, leaving his family in Stockbridge,
to remain there until the ensuing spring.

   Upon his arrival at Princeton, measures were promptly taken
to call ameeting of the Trustees of the College. They met
accordingly on Thursday, the i6th day of February, 1758, and
among the minutes of that meeting is the following                      :




  " The Rev. Mr.
                     Jonathan Edwards,   at the repeated   Requests and Invitations of
this Board, and agreeably to a vote passed at a meeting of the Trustees in     Septem-
!^4
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

her last, attending, and having been pleased to accept the office of President of the

College, so unanimously voted him, was qualified as the charter directs ; and the
said President Edwards was at the same time qualified as a Trustee of the College,
and took his seat accordingly."

   Several matters relating to the order and government of the
College and of the grammar-school were considered by the
Board at this meeting, and it was voted,
  " That President     Edwards have the direction, care, and government of the
Grammar School, with its Masters and Ushers, and have authority to introduce the
elements of Geography, History, and Chronology, if he judge proper; and that he
have the profits of said school."


   Mr. Robert Smith, the architect employed by the Trustees in
the erection of the College buildings, was desired to make some
improvements in the President's house.                  At this meeting it was
  "
      Voted, That the Law obliging the students to wear peculiar Habits be repealed."


   The law here referred to was enacted at a meeting of the
Trustees held September 24, 1755.
   Provision was        made for an address to the new Governor in
the name of the Trustees, should one be appointed and come
into the Province before the next meeting of the Board. The
performance of this duty was devolved upon the President of
the College and the Clerk of the Board.        committee was A
appointed to settle with the Treasurer, and to  report to the
Board the amount of funds in his hands. The Treasurer was
directed to pay the Rev. Mr. David Cowell, for his inspection of
the College from the I4th of December to the time of Presi-
dent Edwards's arrival in Princeton, the sum of eleven pounds.
   At the request of the senior Tutor, Mr. Ewing, that a pro-
visional arrangement should be made for supplying his place in
case he should decide to leave, it was voted that President
Edwards have power, in that case, to employ any gentleman
he thought proper upon Trial for the office of Tutor, until the
next meeting.
  The Treasurer was directed to pay the bill for printing Mr.
Burr's sermon at the funeral of Governor Belcher, and the Rev.
Caleb Smith was requested to take charge of the sale of the
        ELECTION OF THE REV. JONATHAN EDWARDS.                             1
                                                                               jt
                                                                                )




copies, and to account to the Treasurer for the                  money arising
from said sale.
                               "
  Provision was     made for the             drawing of a Lottery for the
College, to raise a sum not exceeding                      600, the price of a
ticket to be two dollars."
  It    was also voted that there should be a meeting of the
Trustees at every Commencement.
  The above is a summary of the business done at the only
meeting of the Trustees ever attended by Mr. Edwards, and
that was a special meeting called more particularly for the

purpose of inducting him into the office of President.
  One week after this meeting, viz., on the 23d of February,
he was inoculated for the smallpox, and on the 22d of March
he died.     His active service, therefore, in behalf of the College
must all have taken place within four or five weeks, and yet the
power of his name for good is felt by the College to this day.
Probably no man ever connected with this institution has con-
tributed so much to the reputation of the College, both at home
and abroad.     In the narrative of his            life,   published in connec-
                                        "
tion with his works, it   is    said,        While at Princeton, before his
sickness, he preached in the College hall, but did nothing as
President, unless it was to give out some questions in divinity
to the Senior class, to be answered before him, each one having

opportunity to study and write what he thought proper upon
them. When they came together to answer them, they found
so much entertainment and profit by it, especially by the light
and instruction Mr. Edwards communicated, in what, he said
upon the questions when they delivered what they had to say,
that they spoke of it with the greatest satisfaction and wonder."
                               "
(See Dr. S. E.    D
                 wight's           Life of Edwards," page 577, copied
from Dr. Hopkins's.)
      The first sermon he preached in Princeton was on the un-
changeableness of Christ, and           it   is   to be found in the eighth
volume of his works.           From this we may infer what would
have been the character of his religious teachings in the Col-
lege had he been spared to preside for a length of time over
its    discipline and instruction.
      During the time of his being at Princeton                 he was assisted
!^6
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

by two excellent Tutors, one already mentioned as a Tutor
under President Burr, Mr. John Ewing, and the other Mr. Jere^
miah Halsey, who, to the great benefit of the institution and to
the equally great satisfaction of the Trustees, held his office for
ten years. The respective duties of these two gentlemen will
appear from the following minute adopted at the meeting of
February 16:
  " The Board further
                         judge most advisable, in the present circumstances, and do
accordingly vote, that Mr. Ewen [Ewing] take the Junior and the Sophomore classes
under his particular tuition, and that Mr. Halsey apply himself to the instruction
of the Senior and Freshman classes."


  Of the College curriculum at this date we have no particular
information, there being no Faculty records in existence, and
the minutes of the Trustees containing no details of the duties
discharged by the several officers of the College.
  From Mr. Edwards's letter of the date of October 19, 1/57,
in reply to the one informing              him of his election to the office
of President, we may gather some idea of the course of study
and of instruction:

  Among the reasons which made him doubt the propriety of his accepting the
                                            " in some
appointment he mentions his deficiency                  parts of learning, particularly in
Algebra and the higher parts of Mathematics, and in the Greek classics my Greek
                                                                             ;

                                                                          "
learning having been chiefly in the New Testament."     Again he remarks, If I
should see light to determine me to accept the place offered me, I should be willing
to take upon me the work of a president, so far as it consists in the general inspec-
tion of the whole society ;   and to be subservient to the school, as to their order and
methods of study and instruction, assisting myself in the immediate instruction in
the Arts and Sciences (as discretion should direct, and occasion serve, and the state
of things require), especially of the Senior class; and, added to all, should be will-

ing to do the whole work of a professor of divinity, in public and private lectures,
proposing questions to be answered, and some to be discussed in writing and free
conversation, in meetings of graduates and others, appointed in proper seasons, for
these ends.   It would   now be out of my way to spend time in constant teaching
                           it be the Hebrew
of the languages, unless                    tongue, which I should be willing to
improve myself in by instructing others."

   In these extracts we doubtless have sketched an outline of
what would have been the course of instruction during his
administration had his life been spared. The plan embraces
instruction in the Latin, Greek, and Hebrew languages, in the
arts and sciences, and in the teachings of Holy Scripture. Most
         ELECTION OF THE REV, JONATHAN EDWARDS.                   l
                                                                      jj

of these studies,   if   not     all,   together with composition and
declamation, had been matters of attention under the adminis-
tration of Mr. Burr.     It is   highly probable that Mr. Ewing, the
senior Tutor, instructed the classes assigned to him in Mathe-
matics and Natural Philosophy, and Mr. Halsey his classes in
the Greek and Latin classics.             After Mr. Ewing's decease, a
course of lectures on Natural Philosophy, delivered by him in
the University of Pennsylvania, were published at Philadelphia;
and it is by no means improbable that the substance of these
lectures was prepared for the instruction of his pupils at
Nassau Hall.
   Mr. Isaac Smith, a graduate of the College in 1755, was
associated with Messrs. Ewing and Halsey, as a Tutor, for a
few months before Mr. Edwards's induction into office as Presi-
dent.   Mr. Smith was subsequently a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Jersey, and also a member of the National Con-
gress.
  From the foregoing narrative it appears that the following-
named gentlemen had charge of the instruction and government
of the students from the time of Mr. Edwards's election, Sep-
tember 29, 1757, until his decease, on the 22d of March, 1758:
  Rev. William Tennent, from the opening of the session until
December 14, 1757.
  Rev. David Cowell, from December 14, 1757, until Mr. Ed-
wards's arrival in Princeton, in the latter part of January, 1758.
  President    Edwards himself, from the time of his reaching
Princeton until his decease, March 22, 1758.
  The Tutors were Messrs. John Ewing, Jeremiah Halsey, and
Isaac Smith.
                    CHAPTER VIII.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. JONATHAN EDWARDS, THIRD PRESIDENT
                   OF THE COLLEGE.

  THIS eminent man, the only son of the Rev. Timothy Ed-
wards, of Windsor, Connecticut, was born at Windsor on the
5th of October, 1703. The mother of President Edwards was
Esther Stoddard, a daughter of the Rev. Solomon Stoddard, of
Northampton, Massachusetts. The father and maternal grand-
father were both held in repute for talent, piety, and learning.
Their families, which were unusually large, are connected by
intermarriage with many of the prominent families in              New
England, and in other parts of our country.
  The studies requisite for admission to college the subject of
this memoir pursued  under the direction of his father, and he
was admitted to 'Yale College when but a youth of thirteen
years of age.  His proficiency even in childhood was such as
to give hope of his becoming what he did become, a careful
observer and a profound thinker. While yet a youth he evinced
a great fondness for philosophical speculations. At the age of
fourteen he read with delight and profit Locke's " Essay on the
Human Understanding," and his college course was marked
with sobriety of deportment and with improvement in the dif-
ferent branches of learning.   He is said to have maintained the
highest standing in his class, and to have been graduated with
the highest honors.
  The mention made by one                                         "
                                  of   his       biographers of       his

thorough knowledge of the Latin, Greek, and Hebrew" does
not accord fully with his own account of his proficiency in
these languages, given in his letter of October 19, 1757, to the
Trustees of the College, in which he says, " I am also deficient
in some parts of learning, particularly      .and in the Greek
                                                 .   .
                                                         ,



classics; my Greek learning having been chiefly in the New
     178
         MEMOIR OF THE REV. JONATHAN EDWARDS.                     ijg

Testament."       And again he says, " It would now be out of
my way to spend time in constant teaching of the languages,
unless   it   be the Hebrew tongue, which I should be willing to
improve myself in by instructing others."
  Although having a keen relish for all matters pertaining to
natural philosophy, which he is said to have cultivated to the
end of his life, yet moral philosophy and divinity were his
favorite subjects of study.
  He was admitted to the first degree in the Arts in the autumn
of 1720, just before attaining the age of seventeen   ;
                                                          and entering
at once upon the study of theology, he remained at College for

nearly two years after he had finished the usual under-graduate
course.  He was licensed to preach before he had completed
his nineteenth year,     and at the request of a small society of
Presbyterians in the city of New York, he began his ministerial
labors among them.      He supplied their pulpit for about eight
months but finding that the congregation, which was a frag-
          ;




ment of one still older, were unable to support a minister, he
gave up his charge and returned to New England.
  He was solicited to resume his labors in New York, but de-
clined, influenced in all probability by the conviction that there
was no sufficient reason for the attempt to erect another Pres-
byterian church in that city at that time, and that if he refused
to return, the persons to whom he preached would resume their
former relations with the church already established, and under
the charge of an able and worthy minister of the gospel, the
Rev. James Anderson, a native of Scotland.
  In September, 1723, he received his degree of Master of
Arts, and at the same time he was chosen a Tutor in Yale Col-
lege.  Upon the duties of this office, however, he did not enter
until the next June.   About this period several congregations
were desirous to have him for their pastor but all these invita-
                                            ;


tions he declined. In the summer of 1726, the people of North-

ampton, Massachusetts, invited him to become the colleague
of his venerable grandfather, the Rev. Solomon Stoddard, and
among the reasons urged for his acceptance of this call was the
one that his grandfather, by reason of his great age, stood in
need of assistance. Accepting their proposal, he resigned his
jgo        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

office of Tutor at the close of the college year, and on Feb-
ruary 15, 1728, he was set apart to the pastoral office in the
church of Northampton, being at that time in the twenty-fourth
year of his age. His grandfather dying in February, 1729, Mr.
Edwards became the sole pastor. He continued at Northamp-
ton about twenty-four years.            From the time of his settlement
until the year 1744, Mr. Edwards's ministrations were highly
acceptable to his people and greatly blessed to their spiritual
good. In the years 1734 and 1735 there was a powerful awaken-
                                       "
ing among the people of his charge.      His preaching," says
the Rev. Dr. Sprague, "during this period was eminently doc-
      and was of the most pungent, heart-searching, and often
trinal,

                  Among the subjects of the revival were per-
terrific character.

sons of every class and character, and for a while the whole
community seemed to have undergone a moral renovation.
Towards the close of 1735 the work began to decline, after
which there seems to have been no unusual attention until the
early part of 1740, when there occurred another powerful re-
vival."     His pungent preaching, though doubtless distasteful
to   some of his           was nevertheless acceptable to the
                      hearers,
people generally,  and  they felt honored in having for their
minister a man of Mr. Edwards's rare ability in the pulpit, and
one who was held in such high repute both at home and abroad.
But in 1744 an event occurred which entirely ruptured the
happy relations previously existing between the minister and
the people, and which six years after resulted in their separation.

     Being informed that certain young persons, members of the
church, had in their possession books of an immoral and cor-
rupting tendency, which they made use of to promote improper
conversation and conduct, Mr. Edwards preached a sermon to
indicate the duty of the church in reference to matters of this
kind   ;
           and
  " After the sermon he desired the brethren of the church to
                                                                stop, told them what
information he had received, and put the question to them in form, Whether the
Church, on the evidence before them, thought proper to take any measures to ex-
amine into the matter ? The members of the Church with one consent and with
much zeal manifested it to be their opinion that it ought to be inquired into; and
proceeded to choose a Committee of Inquiry to assist their pastor in examining into
the affair. After this Mr. Edwards appointed the time for the Committee of the
          MEMOIR OF THE REV, JONATHAN EDWARDS.                                   1   gI

Church to meet at his house   ;
                                  and then read to the Church a catalogue of the names
of the young persons whom he desired to come to his house at the the same time.
Some of those whose names were thus read were the persons accused, and some
were witnesses but, through mere forgetfulness or inadvertence on his part, he did
              ;


not state to the church in which of these two classes any particular individual
was included, or in what character he was requested to meet the Committee,
whether as one of the accused or as a witness."


  The above extract is taken from the 299th page of Dr. S. E.
         "
Dwight's Life of President Edwards," and was probably taken
                           "
by him from Dr. Hopkins's    Life of Edwards," which was the
basis of his own account of President Edwards's life and labors.

Only in this way can we reconcile what is said in this extract
with what his biographer says on pages 432 and 433                       :




  " The manner in which Mr. Edwards invited the
                                                        young people to meet the Com-
mittee, without distinguishing the witnesses from the accused, whether a matter of
inadvertence on his part or not, was the very manner in which most other persons
would have given the invitation      ;   and, so far as I can see, was the only manner
which propriety could have justified."

   We incline, however, to the opinion that the biographer's
ideas of justice       must have been somewhat confused when he
observes, as the ground of his own judgment in the matter,
  " As therefore both the accused and the witnesses must be
                                                            present before the
Committee, justice as well as kindness demanded that they should be named with-
out discrimination."


   This may have been kindness to the accused, but surely it
was neither kindness nor justice to those who were merely to
give testimony in the case, and who were in no way implicated
                                The best excuse that can be
in the charges to be investigated.
made for the course pursued is the one suggested in the first
of the above extracts, that it was the result of forgetfulness or
inadvertence. And no one at this day need be surprised at
the excitement produced throughout the entire community at
Northampton by the manner in which this whole business was
conducted.   For while, on the one hand, it furnishes a noted
instance of Mr. Edwards's faithfulness and fearlessness in the

discharge of duty, with the full conviction that it would be to
him the occasion of many and bitter trials, and of his ability
to rise above all personal considerations in all matters wherein
1   82    HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

the purity and welfare of the Church of Christ were concerned,
yet, on the other    hand, it as clearly shows a lack of practical
wisdom in dealing with the errors and prejudices of those over
whose spiritual interests he was called to watch. The alleged
facts    were not a matter of notoriety   ;   they were evidently un-
known to the community at large; and the first thing that
brought them to the knowledge of the people generally was his
discourse on this subject. Had he instituted a private investi-
gation, and, having satisfied himself as to the guilty parties,
dealt with them individually and tenderly, showing them their
sin and their danger, there   is   reason to believe that his labors
would not have been without a happy result. In cases in which
the parties were insensible to his urgent and affectionate appeals,
had he called to his aid the counsels and entreaties, and even
the authority, of the parents of the erring youth, he might have
reclaimed     some of them; and not until all other methods had
failed   should he have resorted to this announcement of their
offence, and to the exercise of discipline by the entire church.
Again, notices might have been sent privately to each indi-
vidual whose presence was desired    by the pastor or the com-
mittee, without  any public mention of names. If this view of
the case be a correct one, it is easy to see why the whole
community became so much excited, and that the people are
not entitled to all the blame in regard to this unhappy affair,
which had so much to do in the alienating of their affections
from their minister.
  The unwillingness of the people to proceed with the pro-
posed investigation, upon the discovery made by them that
large numbers of their children were more or less implicated in
the alleged offence, not only aroused their feelings against their
minister, but as naturally led the minister to ascribe their con-
duct to a want of a proper zeal for the honor of Christ and the
purity of the Church.   Hence doubts, which had already ex-
isted in his mind as to the propriety of receiving to the com-
munion of the church any persons who did not give satisfactory
evidence of being truly converted, ripened into a full conviction
that none but regenerate persons ought to partake of the Lord's

Supper.      For many years, under the advice and teachings of
         MEMOIR OF THE REV. JONATHAN EDWARDS.                                 jg^

his grandfather, a different course            had been pursued, and all
baptized persons, who were fully and correctly instructed as to
the plan of salvation revealed in the Holy Scriptures, and who
professed to receive it as such, and who were free from all scan-
dal, were taught that it was their duty and privilege to come to
the Lord's table, notwithstanding any doubts they might have
in regard to themselves as regenerate persons, and even if they

had reason to believe they were not regenerated. This view of
the case had been discussed and defended by Mr. Stoddard,
and was zealously maintained by the churches in Hampshire
County. Mr. Edwards, having satisfied his own mind that this
method was contrary to the teachings of Scripture, resolutely
set himself to work to bring about a change in the practice of
the church of which he was pastor.    His effort in this direc-
tion   was not     successful,    and he was        finally   dismissed from
his charge by a council of ministers and delegates from the
neighboring churches called by himself and the church at
Northampton.
  The opinion embraced by Mr. Edwards on this subject did
not originate with him, but was held quite generally by the
churches of New England at its first settlement; but no advo-
cate of this opinion has exerted so much influence as President
Edwards in the maintenance and propagation of it, both in
Congregational and Presbyterian churches. This is not the
time, nor is it the place, to discuss the correctness or the error
of an opinion which had so important a bearing upon some
of the leading events in the life of President Edwards, but it
cannot be improper, in this connection, to say that his views on
this subject werenot the views held by his predecessors, Presi-
dents Dickinson and Burr, nor are they in accord with the
                  "
teachings of the    Directory for Worship" set forth by the
Presbyterian Church in this country.* The Rev. John Blair,
Vice-President of the College, and its first Professor of Moral
Philosophy and Divinity, from 1767 to 1769, published, in 1771,
"
    An Essay on the Nature, Uses, and Subjects of the Sacra-

  * See "                               " Christian
           Directory for Worship," and                Advocate," vol. x., edited by
President Green, or Dr. Sprague's " Annals," vol. iii., article Rev. Jacob Green.
184          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

ments of the New Testament," in which he maintains and de-
fends views opposite to those of President Edwards.          Mr. Blair's
discussion of the matters handled by him is very calm and very
able, and well         worthy of a perusal by those who are seeking
light in regard to these matters.       A careful comparison of the
views of President Edwards and of Vice-President Blair             may
serve to elicit the exact truth more fully and clearly.
  After the dissolution of his pastoral charge Mr. Edwards
remained for about a year at Northampton, but upon an invita-
tion to take charge of the church at Stockbridge, Massachusetts,
and also of the Indian mission there established, he removed to
that village, and devoted himself assiduously to his studies and
his ministerial and missionary labors.          Here he rendered most
valuable services to the Indian mission, and also to the cause
of learning.  He was not free altogether from trials in this
chosen retreat     ;
                       but the same firmness and fidelity which had
always characterized him were manifested by him in his efforts
in behalf of the Indians, and a greater degree than usual of

prudence marked his course towards those with whom he was
brought into collision; and, the Lord favoring his faithful efforts,
he was successful in defending the interests of the Indians
against the machinations of sundry individuals, whose aim
seemed to be their own aggrandizement at the expense of the
youths sent to the mission-schools to be educated.
   At Stockbridge Mr. Edwards wrote his famous work on the
"
  Will," which added so much to his already great reputation,
and gave him rank among the            first   philosophers of his age.
He resided at Stockbridge for six years, at the end of which
time, upon the death of his son-in-law, the Rev. Aaron Burr,
President of the College of New Jersey, he was chosen his suc-
cessor   ;   and, as narrated in the account given of his short ad-
ministration, he with      much hesitation and misgiving accepted
this appointment, so honorable to himself and to the institution
over which he was called to preside.
  His letter of October 19, 1757, in reply to the one from the
Trustees of the College apprising him of his election, shows
that his      modesty was equal to his great intellectual endow-
ments    ;
             and this letter, from which some extracts have been
            MEMOIR OF THE REV. JONATHAN EDWARDS.                                      ^5
given, is in every respect worthy of its author. His aim seems
to be to prepare the minds of the Trustees for a refusal of their
              he highly appreciated the honor they had done
offer, although
him in choosing him to be the head of their important institu-
tion.      In this letter he sets forth his reasons for thinking that
he is not the person for such a station.                      Still,   he deemed it his
duty to submit the question of his acceptance to a council of
his clerical brethren and this he did, with a pretty clear intima-
                                  ;




tion, however, of his doubts, if not of his preferences.                         Having
received their judgment, which was in favor of his going to
Princeton, he yielded, and reluctantly gave up his church and
missionary work at Stockbridge to devote himself to the train-
ing of youth for the service of the Church in the gospel min-
istry, and for the welfare of the State in the different professions
and employments.
   As before mentioned, he reached Princeton in the latter part
of January, and took the oath of office on the l6th of February,
1758.       On the 23d of the same month, by the advice of phy-
sician     and friends, he was inoculated for the smallpox, in con-
sequence of the general prevalence of this disease.    young                   A
but skilful physician from Philadelphia, Dr. William Shippen,
came to Princeton to inoculate him and his daughter, Mrs.
Burr, and her two children; and after a most serious and de-
liberate consultation with certain friends they were all inocu-

lated,* and for a time they all apparently were doing well; but y
according to the statement of Dr. Shippen in his letter to Mrs.
Edwards informing her of the death of President Edwards, it
appears that
  "
    Although he had the smallpox favorably, yet having a number of them in the
roof of his mouth and throat, he could not possibly swallow a sufficient quantity
of drink to keep off a secondary fever, which has proved too strong for his feeble
frame; and           this afternoon   [March 22], between two and three o'clock, it pleased
God to let him sleep in that dear Lord Jesus whose kingdom and interest he has
been faithfully and painfully serving all his life." Dr. Shippen adds, " And
never did any mortal man more fully and clearly evidence the sincerity of all his
professions,by one continued, universal, calm, cheerful resignation, and patient
submission to the divine will, through every stage of his disease, than he   not      :




  * It is said that he was inoculated with the consent of the
                                                              Trustees, but upon
what authority I know not. The minutes of the Board make no reference to it.
        vol..   I.
                      13
 !86       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

so much as one discontented expression, nor the least appearance of murmuring

through the whole. And never did any person expire with more perfect freedom
from pain, not so much as distorted hair, but, in the most proper sense of the
words, he fell asleep.          Death had certainly lost his sting as to him."*

   After he was sensible that he could not survive that sickness,
a little before his death he called his daughterf to him, who
attended in his sickness, and addressed her in a few words,
which were immediately taken down in writing as nearly as
could be recollected, and are as follows                          :




  " Dear           it   seems to me to be the will of God that I must shortly leave you
           Lucy,                                                                          ;


therefore give   my kindest love to my dear wife, and tell her that the uncommon
union, which has so long subsisted between us, has been of such a nature as I trust
is
   spiritual, and will therefore continue forever; and I hope she will be supported
under so great a trial, and submit cheerfully to the will of God. And as to my
children, you are now like to be left fatherless; which I hope will be an induce-
ment for you all to seek a Father who will never fail you. And as to my funeral,
I would have it to be like Mr. Burr's J and any additional sum of money that
                                                     ;



might be expected to be laid out that way, I would have it disposed of to charitable
uses."

   "
       He said very little in his sickness, but was an admirable in-
stance of patience and resignation to the last.                           Just at the close
of life, as   some persons, who stood by expecting He would
breathe his last in a few minutes, were lamenting his death,
not only as a great frown upon the College, but as having a
dark aspect upon the interest of religion in general, to their
            imagining he heard or that he would ever speak
surprise, not
another word, he said, 'Trust in God, and ye need not fear.'
These were his last words." (Dwight's " Life.")
  The Trustees caused a marble monument to be erected in
honor of President Edwards. On this monument was the fol-
lowing inscription              :


                                                  M. S.
                                       Reverend! admodum Viri,
                                       Jonathan Edwards, A.M.,
                                    Collegii Novse Caesarise Prsesidis,
                 Natus apud Windsor Connecticutensium V Octobris,
                                        A.D. MDCCIII.       S.   V.


                        * See
                                    Dwight's "Life," page 870.
                        f His eldest unmarried daughter.
                        J See notice of Mr. Burr's funeral, page 1 66.
       MEMOIR OF THE REV. JONATHAN EDWARDS.                               jg;

              Patre Reverendo Timotheo Edwards oriundus,

                        Collegio Yalensi educatus ;
            Apud Northampton Sacris initiatus, XV Februarii
                            MDCCXXVI-VII.
                  Illinc dimissus XXII Junii
                                         MDCCL,
                 Et Munus Barbaros instituendi accepit.
             Prseses Aulae Nassovicae creatus         XVI Februarii
                             MDCCLVIII.
           Defunctus in hoc Vico XXII Martii sequentis, S. N.
                      Aetatis LV, heu nimis brevis        !



                         Hie jacel mortalis Pars.
                      Qualis Persona quaeris, Viator ?
                     Vir corpore procero, sed gracili,
             Studiis intentissimis, Abstinentia, et Sedulitate,

                                Attenuato,
              Ingenii Acumine, Judicio acri, et Prudentia,
                     Secunclus Nemini Mortalium.
            Artium liberalium et Scientiarum Peritia insignis,
            Criticorum sacrorum optimus, Theologus eximius,
                Ut vix alter oequalis Disputator candidus ;
                                           :



            Fidei Christiance Propugnator validus et invictus ;
                Concionator gravis, serins, discriminans          ;



                        Et, Deo favente, Successu
                               Felicissimus.
                 Pietate pneclarus, Moribus suis severus,
                       Ast aliis aequus et benignus,
                        Vixit dilectus, veneratus
                            Sed ah     !
                                               lugendus
                              Moriebatur,
                   Quantos Gemitus discedens ciebat           !




             Hen Sapientia tanta heu Doctrina et Religio
                                   !                                  !




               Amissum plorat Collegium, plorat Ecclesia;
                          At, eo recepto, gaudet
                                  Ccelum.
                   Abi Viator, et pia sequere Vestigia.


   Mrs. Edwards did not long survive her husband. In Septem-
ber she set out, in her usual health, for Philadelphia, to bring
to Stockbridge the two orphan children of her daughter, Mrs.
Burr.  Upon the death of Mrs. Burr, which occurred a few
weeks after her father's death, these children, a daughter and a
son, had been taken care of by some friends, and they were in
Philadelphia at the time of Mrs. Edwards's visit to that city.
She arrived there on the 2 1st of September, and within a few
days she was seized with a dysentery, from which she died on
!88          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

the 2d of October, 1758, in the forty-ninth year of her age,
after an illness of five days. She suffered intensely, but died in
perfect peace.            Her remains were taken to Princeton, and were
buried by those of her husband.
      Mrs. Edwards was a remarkable woman, distinguished for
her personal charms, her great intelligence, and her early and
fervent piety, and also for her wise and economical manage-
ment of her family affairs, setting her children an example
worthy of their admiration and imitation, in her diligent atten-
tion to the affairs of her            household, and in her unceasing
efforts to train          her children in the nurture and admonition of
the Lord.
   Mrs. Edwards was a daughter of the Rev. John Pierpont, of
New Haven, and she was married to Mr. Edwards on the 28th
of July, 1727.            She was the mother of eleven             children, three
sons and eight daughters.               Two of her daughters died young
and unmarried the other children all grew up and were mar-
                      ;




ried, and their descendants are very numerous, and some of
them are among the most eminent in their respective callings.
   The following is a list of the published works of President
Edwards, taken from Dr. Sprague's sketch of his life.

  1731.      A sermon, " God glorified in Man's Dependence."
   1734.     A
             sermon,   "A Divine and Supernatural Light imparted to the Soul by
the Spirit of God."

  1735.      A sermon, " Curse ye Meroz."
  1736.      "A Faithful Narrative of the Surprising Work of God, in the Conversion
of many Hundred Souls in Northampton," etc.         (London.)
  1738.      Five Discourses, prefixed to the American edition of the preceding.
  1741.      A sermon, " Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God."
   1741.     A
             sermon, "Sorrows of the       Bereaved spread before Jesus," at the
funeral of the Rev. William Williams.

  1741.      A sermon, "Distinguishing Marks of a Work of the True Spirit,"
preached at New Haven.
  1742.  "Thoughts on the Revival in New England in 1740."
   1743.     A
            sermon, "The Watchman's Duty and Account," at the ordination of
the Rev. Jonathan Judd, of Southampton, Massachusetts.

  1744.      A sermon, "The True Excellency of a Gospel Minister," preached at
the ordination of the Rev. Robert Abercrombie, of Pelham, Massachusetts.

  1746.      A treatise concerning Religious Affections.   (Printed at Boston.)
             " An Humble
  1
      746.                  Attempt to promote Explicit, Agreeable, and Visible Union
among God's People in Extraordinary Prayer."
            MEMOIR OF THE REV. JONATHAN EDWARDS.                                            i$g

  1747.       A sermon, "True Saints, when Absent from the Body, Present with the
Lord," preached at the funeral of the Rev. David Brainerd.
   1748.      A
            sermon, "God's Awful Judgments in breaking the Strong                      Rods of
the Community," occasioned by the death of Colonel John Stoddard.
              " Life and
  1749.                     Diary of the Rev. David Brainerd."
   1749.      A
             sermon, "Christ the Example of Gospel Ministers," preached at the
ordination of the Rev. Job Strong.
          "
   Z 749-
            Qualifications for Full Communion in the Visible Church."
          " Farewell Sermon to the
   1750.                             People of Northampton."
          "
   1752.    Misrepresentation Corrected and Truth Vindicated, in a Reply to Mr.
Solomon Williams' Book on                Qualifications for Communion ;'   to which        added
                                     '
                                                                                      is

a Letter from Mr. Edwards to His Late Flock at Northampton."
  1752.       A sermon, "True Grace distinguished from the Experience of Devils,"
preached before the Synod of New York, at Newark, New Jersey.
         "         into Freedom of the Will."
  1754.         Inquiry
              " The Doctrine of
  1758.                              Original Sin defended."
                                                     "
  1765.       Eighteen Sermons annexed to the Life of Edwards" by Dr. Hopkins.
              " The
  1777.              History of Redemption." (Edinburgh.)
              " Nature of True Virtue."
  1788.
              " God's Last End in Creation."
  1788.
  1788.       Practical Sermons.         (Edinburgh.)
  1789.       Twenty Sermons.         (Edinburgh.)
              " Miscellaneous       Observations on
  1793.                                                 Important   Theological   Subjects.''

(Edinburgh.)
         " Remarks on
  1796.                         Important Theological Controversies."       (Edinburgh.)
              "
  1829.            Types of the Messiah."
               '


  1829.            Notes on the Bible."
              "
  1852.            Charity and its Fruits."

  The most complete collection of his published works and
correspondence is the one edited by his great-grandson, Rev.
Dr. Sereno E. Dwight, in ten volumes, inclusive of the one
containing his              life.   These volumes furnish evidence of                       his

untiring industry and of his rarely equalled power of thought.
The correctness of his opinions on various subjects may be
questioned, but there can be no question as to the ability with
which they are maintained and defended. And no theological
writer of the last century exerted a more powerful influence in

moulding the opinions of those who hold sentiments commonly
designated evangelical. Such a master-spirit as Dr. Chalmers
expresses in the following words his own appreciation of Ed-
wards as a theologian:
  " I have
                   long esteemed him as the greatest of theologians, combining in a degree
that   is
            quite    unexampled the profoundly intellectual with the devotedly spiritual
IC;0
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY,

and sacred, and realizing in his own person a most rare yet most beautiful harmony
between the simplicity of the Christian pastor on the one hand, and on the other
all the strength and prowess of a giant in philosophy so as at once to minister,
                                                            ;


from Sabbath to Sabbath, and with the most blessed effect, to the hearers of his
plain congregation, and yet in the high field of authorship to have traversed, in a
way that none had ever done before him, the most inaccessible places, and such a
mastery as never till his time had been realized over the most arduous           difficulties

of our science.
  " There is no             divine to whom I make such
                   European                                    frequent appeals in my
class-rooms as I do to Edwards.          No book of human composition which I more
strenuously recommend than his
                                    '
                                        Treatise on the Will,' read by me forty-seven
                                                                             1




years ago, with a conviction which has never since faltered, and which has helped
me, more than any other uninspired book, to find my way through all that might
otherwise have proved baffling and transcendental and mysterious in the peculiari-
ties of   Calvinism." (Extract from a letter to the Rev. Dr. Stebbins, of Northamp-
ton, given in Dr. Sprague's     Sketch of President Edwards, and the sentiments
of which Dr. Sprague says Dr. Chalmers expressed to him in a private conversa-

tion.)


     It does not,     however, follow from all this that no false posi-
tions are assumed in the writings of President Edwards, or that
he never gives utterance to forms of thought which if carried to
their logical conclusion would lead to serious error. Nor does
it   follow that his exhibition of the religious affections and men-
tal exercises      connected with true conversion is in all cases to be
taken, without  any doubt or question, as being the actual and
invariable experience of all persons truly regenerate.*


     * President Edwards was a man of eminent
                                                      piety, as well as a man well versed
in the teachings of Scripture and the experiences of godly minds;       still, there   seems
to be in some of his writings too much insisting upon a settled order and a certain

degree of inward experiences as essential to true conversion, more likely in some
cases to hinder than to aid the inquirer in coming to a right decision in regard to
himself.
                                        "
     Doddridge's famous work on the Rise and Progress of Religion in the Soul"
is   a work of this description, and while in many cases it has done great good, there
are others in which to a tender conscience       it   has proved a real hindrance to its
spiritual   advancement and growth in grace. The type of piety produced under
thisprocrustean treatment, while sometimes both genuine and beautiful, and by
consequence lovely, and ever bowing with unfeigned submission to the sovereign
will of God, often lacks that cheerfulness of spirit, and that exuberant joyfulness,
which it should be the aim of every redeemed soul to have and to keep as pertain-
ing to the privileges purchased and made over to it by its beloved Saviour, the
incarnate Son of God.    Such a work as Edwards's on the " Religious Affections"
was perhaps better adapted to the state of things in his day than it is in ours and    ;
         MEMOIR OF THE REV. JONATHAN EDWARDS.                                   l
                                                                                    gl

yet this great work may be read and studied with the greatest profit by all who are
desirous to distinguish true religious affections from those which are false, if they
will bear in mind that while persons truly converted   may be conscious of possess-
ing all the views and feelings therein described, yet that such consciousness is not
essential to vital piety. While they find in themselves those great distinguishing
marks of true conversion, love to God, and love to man, with a humble trust in
the righteousness and intercession of their Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ as the

ground of their hope, and of their acceptance with God, they need not be con-
cerned at the discovery that they possess not some of those experiences which are
insisted upon by writers on Experimental Religion.
                            CHAPTER IX.
THE INTERVAL BETWEEN THE DECEASE OF PRESIDENT EDWARDS
 AND THE INAUGURATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL DAVIES AS PRESI-
 DENT OF THE COLLEGE.

   MR. EDWARDS died on the 22d of March, and the next meet-
ing of the Board took place on Wednesday, the iQth of April,
1758, the instruction of the classes in this interval being con-
ducted by the Tutors, Messrs. Ewing and Halsey.
   Exclusive of the Governor of the State and the President
of the College, the Board of Trustees consisted of twenty-one
members and of these, eleven were clergymen and ten laymen.
              ;



On this occasion all the clerical members were present, and
only three of the lay members.
   The following is a copy of the minutes at this meeting                      :




  " The Trustees met
                       according to appointment at Nassau Hall, on Wednesday, the
1 9th
     day of April, A.D. 1758.
  "           William P. Smith and Samuel Woodruff, Esqrs. ; the Rev. Messrs.
    Present,
Gilbert Tennent, "William Tennent, David Cowell, Richard Treat, Timothy Johnes,

Jacob Green, John Pierson, Samuel Finley, Caleb Smith, John Brainerd, Charles
McKnight, and Richard Stockton. [Mr. Stockton was Clerk of the Board.] The
Clerk certified that he had duly notified each member of this present meeting.
  " The minutes of the last
                              meeting were ordered to be read. It is ordered, that
Messrs. Treat, Cowell, and Stockton, or any two of them, be a committee to ascer-
tain the sum of   money in the hands of the Treasurer which was given in Trust for
the Benefit of poor Scholars, and make Report thereof to the next meeting.
  " Messrs.
             Green, Brainerd, and Smith, appointed the last meeting to inspect the
College Fund and settle the accounts with the Treasurer, having not finished the
said affair, it is ordered, that they make report of the Business, and also the state of
the Expenses for the current year, to the meeting of the Trustees at the next Com-
mencement.
  " It is
          ordered, that the Tuition money and Study Rent until the next Commence-
ment be put into the hands of the Steward of the College, and that he pay the
same unto the Treasurer.
  " It
       having pleased God to remove by Death the late Rev. Mr. Edwards, President
of the College, a few weeks after he had taken upon him the Charge of the Col-

        192
            REV. JAMES LOCKWOOD ELECTED PRESIDENT.                                      ig$

lege   ;
           It is   ordered, that the Treasurer   pay unto the Executors of the said Mr.
Edwards the sum of One Hundred Pounds, being the one-half of his salary for one
year, which he had a right to receive at the end of six months after the last Com-
mencement the said six months being unexpired notwithstanding.
                   ;

   " The
         Presidentship of the College having become vacant by the Death of the
late Rev. President Edwards, the Trustees, after Prayer particularly on this account

being made, and having taken deliberate consideration of the matter, do elect the
Rev. Mr. James Lockwood, of Wethersfield, in the Colony of Connecticut, to be
the President of the College ; and the Clerk is ordered to write a Letter unto the
said Mr.Lockwood informing him of the said Election and requesting his accept-
ance; and Mr. Spencer, one of the members of the Corporation, is desired to wait
on the said Mr. Lockwood and deliver him the said Letter.
  " It is
             ordered, that the Expenses attending the moving of Mr. Lockwood's Family
to this Place be paid by the Treasurer.
  "  It is ordered, that Messrs. William P. Smith, Woodruff, Pierson, Johnes, Green,

Caleb Smith, and Brainerd, or any four of them, be a Committee to transact the
affair of Mr. Lockwood's Removal.
  " The Rev. Caleb Smith is
                              appointed President of this College until the next
Trustee meeting; and the said appointment being made known to the said Mr.
Smith, he was pleased to accept the same, and was qualified as the Charter directs.
  " Mr.
         McWhorter, who was heretofore appointed an Usher in the Grammar
School, not having accepted the same, and Mr. Strain having at the request of the
Board for some time performed the said Business, and being willing to continue
therein ;It is ordered, that the said Mr. Strain be paid at the rate of ^40 per

annum for the Time he has acted, and shall act as Usher in the said school.
  " The Board
                       adjourned until 7 o'clock to-morrow morning.
  " 2<\                         The Trustees met according to adjournment.
            Day, 7 o'clock.
  " Present as before.
  " The Rev. Samuel
                       Finley is appointed to take upon himself the Charge of the
College and act as President thereof until the 22d day of May next, and the said
Mr. Finley was qualified as the Charter directs." No reason is given for this action of
the Board just at the close of their session.     Only the simple fact is a matter of record.

      Here we have a regularly elected President, viz., the Rev.
Mr. Lockwood, and two acting Presidents, chosen at the same
meeting of the Board. It is obvious why a pro tern. President
was chosen upon the election of Mr. Lockwood, who, whatever
might be his decision, would not be able at once to take upon
himself the charge of the College and the suggestion of Dr.
                                                     ;



Green in his " Notes" doubtless assigns the true reason why
Mr. Finley was chosen to serve in the office of President for a
short but definite period, and that, too, just after Mr. Smith had
been qualified to act as President until the next meeting of the
Trustees.              Dr. Green's suggestion is this         :   that Mr. Smith find-

ing he could not attend to the duties of the                          office before the
I9 4
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

22d of May, Mr. Finley was chosen to take his place until that
time.  From the subsequent minutes of the Board it appears
that both Mr. Finley and Mr. Smith took upon themselves
the oversight of the College for the time allotted to each
respectively.
  " The next meeting of the Trustees took place at Nassau Hall, on Wednesday, the
l6th of August, A.D. 1758.   There were present His Excellency Francis Bernard,
Esq., the Hon. James Hude, Esq., the Hon. Samuel Woodruff, Esq., William
P. Smith, Esq., Peter V.       B.   Livingston, Esq., the Rev. Messrs. Caleb Smith,
John Pierson, Gilbert Tennent, William Tennent, David Cowell, Richard Treat,
Samuel Finley, Jacob Green, Alexander Gumming, Charles McKnight, and Richard
Stockton, Esq.
  " The Clerk certified that he had                           member of this present
                                    duly notified each
meeting.
  " His
          Excellency Francis Bernard, Esq., Governor of this Province, having been
pleased to attend the present meeting of the Trustees, was qualified as the Charter
directs, and took his seat as President accordingly.
   " The definitive answer of the Rev. Mr.
                                              Lockwood, of Wethersfield, the Presi-
dent elect of this College, was read ; by which it fully appears that the Rev. Mr.
Lockwood had refused accepting the Presidentship agreeably to the choice of this
Board; whereupon, after mature deliberation, the Board proceeded to the election
of a President of the College, when the Rev. Mr. Samuel Davies, of Virginia, was

duly elected. On which the Clerk is ordered as soon as possible to communicate
the Notice of the said Election to the said Mr. Davies, and desire his acceptance
thereof, and request his answer as soon as may be, and if it suits Conveniency, his
attendance     at the   next Commencement.     And the Treasurer is hereby ordered to
pay the expenses of removing Mr. Davies's Family to this Place.
  " The Rev. Mr. Smith is desired and
                                         hereby empowered to preside until the
next Commencement, and then to give the Degrees to the Candidates and in case
                                                                        ;


of his absence, the Rev. Mr. Cowell or Cummings are hereby empowered to trans-
act the said affair.
  " The Board
              adjourned till 8 o'clock to-morrow morning.
  " A Committee was
                     appointed to manage the affair of Mr. Davies's removal to
Princeton and the same Committee was authorized to send to England for what
           ;


Books they may think necessary for the use of the College and Grammar School,
not exceeding .40 sterling; also to settle with Mr. Robert Smith (who built the
President's house), and the Executor of President Burr, the matter relative to the

surplus over and above ;6oo for which the said house was to have been built         ;


and also to conclude about finishing the President's house and College."

   From this and other minutes it appears that neither the Col-
lege nor the President's house was completely finished at the
time they were first occupied.
  The Rev. Mr. George Duffield, who had served as Tutor
from 1754 to 1/56, was chosen senior Tutor, with the desire
            RELIGIOUS SERVICES ON THE SABBATH.                              195

expressed by the Board that he might be permanently con-
nected with the College. They offered him one hundred pounds
a year, with a promise to increase this salary as they reasonably
could should his circumstances require it.                The offer was not
accepted.
  There being no regularly organized Presbyterian church in
Princeton, and no building for regular religious services on
the Sabbath, the President of the College for the time being
preached regularly in the College Chapel and such residents
                                                      ;



of the village and vicinity as desired so to do were permitted
to attend the services in the College, and separate pews were

assigned to such as were willing to pay for the use of them.
Some of the occupants of these pews having neglected their
pew-rents, it was
  "
    Ordered, That the pew-rents in the Hall for the last year be immediately paid
unto the Steward of the College, and on failure of compliance of any Person, that
such Person forfeit his Pew."

   The tuition-fees for a year were increased from three pounds
to four pounds proclamation money this additional charge,
                                                 :



however, was not to be exacted of any already in college, but
of those who should after this time enter the Freshman class.
  The Rev. Mr. Finley was " authorized and desired to amend
and prepare for the press the Newark Grammar with all pos-
sible expedition, and to transmit the same to the President
of the College for the time being." This Newark Grammar
was a Latin grammar said to have been prepared by President
Burr.
  An order was passed, that Mr. Finley be paid ten pounds for
the time that he inspected the government of the College, and
that Mr. Smith should be paid for his services forty pounds.
   From a report made by a committee appointed at the last
                            "
meeting, it appeared that the fund for poor scholars in the
Treasurer's hands" amounted to the sum of five hundred
pounds proc., the interest to be computed from October next                     ;



and for this sum the Trustees agreed to be accountable to
the Synod of New York and Philadelphia, the common ex-
pense and casualties to which their own funds are liable being
excepted.
I9 6
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
  " The fund here                                         " was formed
                    mentioned," says President Green,*                         by donations
obtained in England and Scotland by Messrs. Tennent and Davies for the educa-
tion of poor and pious youth for the gospel ministry.It was loaned to the
                                                                          College,
and was originally under the guardianship of the Synod of New York, but was now
transferred to the Synod of New York and Philadelphia.      .  The fund here re-
                                                                .   .



ferred to was almost annihilated by the depreciation of paper money during the

Revolutionary war. The interest arising on the remainder of it is now disposed of
annually, for the benefit of some student in the College, by a committee of the Gen-
eral Assembly and a committee of the Trustees."



   At a subsequent date, the selection of the beneficiary was
given up to the College authorities.
  This seems to be a suitable place to say a few words of the
Rev. James Lockwood, who was chosen to succeed Mr. Ed-
wards in the office of President of the College, but declined the
               "
appointment.     The reasons which induced Mr. Lockwood to
                                                 "
refuse the Presidency," says President Green,      cannot now be
known. He was a man of great worth and high reputation."
The Trustees, however, were not unanimous                               in his election.

This is not apparent from the minutes of the Board; but Mr.
Davies, in writing on the subject to his friend Dr. Gibbons, of
London, says, "The trustees were divided between him, another
gentleman, and myself, but I happily escaped." The other gen-
tleman referred to was most probably the Rev. Samuel Finley,
who was also named as a candidate for the office at the time
Mr. Davies was chosen.
   Mr. Lockwood must have been a man of much more than
ordinary merit.   In 1766, upon the resignation of President
Clap, of Yale   College, Mr. Lockwood was chosen his suc-
                                                                          "
cessor.     But this appointment he also declined.                            The reason
                                  "
given," says Dr. Sprague,             for his non-acceptance in both cases
was his strong attachment to the people of his charge, and his
consequent unwillingness to separate himself from them. He
continued their pastor, greatly respected and beloved, till the
close of life.    He died July 20,       1
                                             772, in the fifty-eighth year of his
age, and the thirty-fourth of his ministry." He was very friendly
to Mr. Whitefield, and countenanced his labors in the great re-
vival of 1740.       This circumstance probably contributed to his

                                * See his " Notes."
                      THE COMMENCEMENT OF i 75 8.                               i^-j


election as President of the College of New Jersey.   His wife
was a daughter of the Rev. Moses Dickinson, a brother of Presi-
dent Dickinson. Mr. Lockwood was a graduate of Yale College,
as were the first three Presidents of this College, Messrs. Dickin-
son, Burr, and Edwards.
  The Commencement of 1758 took place on Wednesday the
27th of September; but the record of this meeting is so defect-
ive that we have the name of only one of the Trustees present
on this occasion.           Eighteen candidates were admitted to the
first degree in      the Arts, and seven received their second degree.
The record is not in the handwriting of the Clerk, nor is the
entry made at the proper page.
  As the Rev. Caleb Smith was the President pro tern., and as
he had been requested to preside at the Commencement exer-
cises, it is     most probable that the degrees were conferred by
him.
   At an adjourned meeting of the Board, held November 22,
1758, there were present fourteen members,                         nine ministers
and five laymen.
  The Rev. George Duffield having declined the appointment
tendered to him by the Trustees at their meeting in August, they
now elect Mr. Joseph Treat a Tutor, and order that his salary
shall begin from the preceding Commencement.     From which
order it is evident that without a formal appointment he acted
as Tutor, and probably at the request of some one or                         more of
the Trustees.

  " The Committee
                     empowered to transact the affair of Mr. Davies's removal having
produced his answer, and the Trustees having considered the same, adjudge that
the said answer is final in the Negative."
  The Board then adjourned until eight o'clock the next morning.         There were
present the     same persons   as   on the preceding day.   They      the Rev.
                                                                   elected

Jacob Green, a member of the Board, Vice-President of the College, to serve
until a President should be chosen and it was ordered that his salary be at the
                                          ;


rate of   two hundred Pounds per annum, for the time he shall serve in the above
character.     It was also ordered that
                                      he should have care and general government
of the grammar-school.      Mr. Green, accepting this appointment, was qualified as
the Charter directed.
  It was     then "ordered, that there be a meeting of the Trustees on the second
Wednesday in May next, principally designed for the Election of a President of
the College.
!^3
                HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
      "
          Agreeably to this order, there was a meeting of the Board on Wednesday, the
9th day of May, 1759, thirteen members present.
  " After
          acting upon a report from the Referees appointed to settle the dispute be-
tween the Executor of Mr. Burr and the Board about the President's House, and
agreeing to pay the surplus of the ^"600, for which said house was to have been
built, the   Board adjourned till 2 o'clock P.M.
      " At 2 P.M. the Trustees
                               again met. His Excellency Governor Bernard and three
other      members of the Board having arrived, there were present in all seventeen,
nine ministers and eight laymen."

      The following is a copy of the minutes                       at this    important
meeting           :



      " The Rev. Mr. Samuel Davies was
                                              proposed as a Candidate for the Presidency
of the College, and admitted, Nem. Con. ; and also the Rev. Mr. Samuel Finley
was admitted a Candidate in the same manner.
  "
    Whereupon, after mature Deliberation of the Premises, the Rev. Mr. Samuel
Davies was duly elected President of this College, and as this Society has been so long
a time destitute of a fixed President, and by means thereof the former flourishing
State so greatly affected, the Trustees desire and do hereby appoint the Rev. Messrs.
Caleb Smith, John Brainerd, and Elihu Spencer, of their number (who design to
meet the Synod of New York and Philadelphia on next week), and any other gentle-
men of this Board who shall be there, to request the said Synod to dismiss the said
Mr. Davies from his pastoral charge, that he may be thereby enabled to accept of
the said Office.
      " The Reverend Mr. Green
                                       having fulfilled the term of his former Election of
Vice-President of the College, he is hereby appointed to continue in his said office
until a fixed President can attend for the service of that Office.
      " It is
                ordered, that hereafter whenever a Vacancy shall happen in the President-
ship of the College by Death or otherwise, that the Clerk with all convenient speed
convene Six of the Trustees, and by their appointment shall give Notice (declaring
such vacancy) of a meeting of the Trustees at any Time, not less than four months
accounted from the date of said Notice, in Order for electing, a President, and that
all    Notices thus given shall be regular to all Intents and Purposes.
      " Mr. Caleb Smith            a Plan of Union
                            produced                   amongthe several   Colleges in these
Provinces, drawn up by Mr. President Clap, of Yale College, in Connecticut;
which, being read, was referred for further consideration.
      " It is
                ordered, that there be a meeting of the Trustees of the College at the next
Commencement, and that the members take notice thereof accordingly."

       Before the next meeting President Davies arrived at Prince-
ton, and entered      upon the duties of his office on the 26th of
July, although he was not formally inducted, by the taking of
the oaths required by the charter, until Wednesday, the 26th day
of September, 1759.
       From March 22, 1758, the day on which President Edwards
died, until the 26th of July, 1759, the                    day on which President
           ELECTION OF PRESIDENT POSTPONED,                     199

Davies entered upon his duties, the space of an entire year and
four months, the College was without a regular or permanent
President; and although the reverend gentlemen          who during
this interval presided over the institution were all well qualified
for their positions, yet the mere fact that the College was all this
time without a permanent head was a great drawback to            its

prosperity, and made the Trustees the more anxious to secure
without further delay the services of Mr. Davies, when it be-
came known to them that if again elected he would accept the
appointment.
  As mentioned above, the minutes of the Trustees for the
meeting of Wednesday, 2/th of September, 1758, are very de-
ficient, and a full and accurate account of the negotiations can-
not be obtained from the minutes alone.      Mr. Davies was first
chosen President on the i6th of August, 1758.        He referred the
question, whether he ought to accept this appointment, to the
Presbytery, of which he was a member, and they decided that
he ought not to relinquish his pastoral charge. He therefore
wrote to the Trustees declining their offer. But upon further
reflection, fearing he might have erred in deciding not to accept
the Presidency, he writes to the Rev. David Cowell, most prob-

ably in reply to a letter from Mr. C, and authorizes him, in case
the Trustees cannot agree upon Mr. Finley, to place him again
in nomination for the office of President.     Mr. Cowell was a
Trustee of the College, and a member of the committee ap-
pointed by the Board to make provision for Mr. Davies's re-
moval to Princeton.
  On the 27th of September, the day of the annual Commence-
ment, the Trustees must have received notice of Mr. Davies's
refusal to accept the office of President but instead of proceed-
                                          ;




ing at once to the election of another person to said office, they
desire Mr. Davies to consent to act as Vice-President of the

College until the meeting of the Synod        in   May next, and to
refer the decision of the Presbytery to the Synod for its judg-
ment.   But this proposal Mr. Davies declines, and in a letter to
Mr. Cowell, of the date of October     18, he revokes the permis-
sion which hehad conditionally given Mr. Cowell to nominate
him a second time for the office of President, and urges the
200       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

choosing of Mr. Finley.   The Trustees met again on the 22d
of November, and, learning Mr. Davies's answer, after a full
consideration of the subject they postponed the election of a
President, and elected the Rev. Jacob Green Vice-President, to
preside until a President be chosen, and then adjourned, to
meet on the Qth of May next, chiefly for the purpose, as stated
in their minutes, of choosing a President for the College.
  In a letter of the date of December 25, 1758, Mr. Cowell
informs Mr. Davies that   it is
                                impossible to unite upon Mr.
Finiey, that there was a bare quorum of the Trustees to receive
his second denial, that the Governor (Governor Bernard) de-
sired them not to proceed to the election of a President at this

time, and that they had chosen Mr. Green Vice-President pro tem.
  It is evident that a majority of the Trustees present on this

occasion were not prepared to choose any other person than
Mr. Davies, and    it   is   probable that they   still   hoped that he
might be induced to accept the office should it again be tendered
to him.
  In Mr. Cowell's correspondence with Mr. Davies, Mr. C. re-
       "
marks,   The College is to be esteemed of as high importance
as any institution in the land.    Our beginning was small        ;
                                                                      God
has carried it on until it is a marvel in our eyes."
   From information received from the Rev. John Ewing, of
Nottingham, Maryland, and formerly a Tutor in the College,
Mr. Cowell, in his letter of December 25, was led to censure
Mr. Jeremiah Halsey, then the senior Tutor, for endeavoring
to prevent Mr. Davies's acceptance of the office of President.
But Mr. Davies, in his reply of March 12, 1757, fully exculpates
Mr. Halsey; and yet it is very probable that the information
which was given him by Mr. Halsey, at Mr. Davies's own re-
quest, had considerable influence in determining him to decline
the second proposal made to him.
   In his correspondence with Mr. Cowell, which took place be-
tween the two meetings of the Board, November 22, 1758, and
May 9, 1759, Mr. Davies, while consenting on certain condi-
tions that he should again be nominated for the Presidency, ex-

pressly insists that the first election, viz., the one on the 1 6th of
August preceding, should be regarded as null and that, if the
                                                      ;
             MR. DA VIES DECLINES THE PRESIDENCY.                       2 OI


Trustees still desired him to accept the office, they must elect
him again, and the election be subject to the consent and ap-
proval of the Synod.               To this condition- the Trustees could
have no objection, as they were morally certain that the Synod
would give their consent, and as they knew that Mr. Davies
could not give up his pastoral charge in Virginia unless the
Synod permitted him to do so.
  There can be no doubt that the two things which more than
anything else made Mr. Davies hesitate in regard to accepting
the offer of the Trustees, were his unwillingness to quit his field
of labor in Virginia and his knowledge of the fact that there
was a division in the Board of Trustees. A minority of the
Board held with Mr. Davies himself, that Mr. Finley was the
better qualified man for the position; but the majority believed
that Mr. Davies was the man for the place, and they determined
to get him if they could.
  In a letter of the date of January I, 1759, to Dr. Bellamy, the
Rev. David Bostwick, of New York, and subsequently a Trustee
                                   "
of the College, remarks,               Mr. Davies sent an absolute refusal,
grounded upon information that there was a party against him.
The Trustees divided between him and Mr. Finley. And party-
spirit, I fear, runs pretty high. The majority carried it that Mr.
Davies should be tried again.              Mr. Green is Vice-President till
May."       It does    not appear from the minutes of the Board that
the majority formally decided that Mr. Davies should be tried
again; but their action was in accord with such a purpose. Mr.
Davies's own account of the matter is to be found in his
farewell sermon, preached at Hanover, Virginia, on the 1st of

July,   1759, and       confirms the view here given, although it
                                              "
abounds      less in    details.(See Davies's   Sermons," in three
volumes, published in New York in 1842.)
  The officers and teachers of the College during this interval
were, the Rev. Caleb Smith, President pro tern. ; Rev. Samuel
Finley, President pro tern. ; Rev. Jacob Green, Vice-President
pro tern.; Mr. John Ewing, Tutor;                   Mr. Jeremiah Halsey,
Tutor Mr. Joseph Treat, Tutor.
        ;


  The Tutors were admirably qualified                 for their   work, and
became men of note.
   VOL. I.    14
202    HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  At the Commencement of 1758, eighteen were admitted to
the first degree in the Arts, and the same number at the Com-
mencement of 1759, at the latter of which Mr. Davies presided,
although he had little or nothing to do in the instruction of the
candidates.
  Of the class of 1758 were Peter R. Livingston, chosen, in
1776, President of the Provincial Congress, New York; John
Van Brugh Tennent, one of the founders of the first medical
school of New York, and its first Professor of Obstetrics   ;
                                                                Rev.
Wm. Tennent, son of the Rev. Wm. Tennent, of Freehold, New
Jersey, an eloquent preacher and an ardent patriot Jeremiah
                                                      ;



Van Rensselaer, a Member of Congress, and a Lieutenant-
Governor of New York     ;
                             Rev. Wm. Whitwell, of Marblehead,
Massachusetts.
  Of the class of 1759 were Rev. James Caldwell, A.M., of
Elizabethtown,  New Jersey, a Trustee of the College; Jabez
Campfield, A.M.,   a Surgeon in the American army          Rev.
                                                            ;




John  Carmichael,  A.M., of  Delaware    Rev.
                                          ;   James   Hunt,  for

many years   at the head  of a  flourishing classical school  in
                                          "
Maryland James Leslie, founder of the Leslie Trust Fund,"
          ;


for the education at the College ofNew Jersey of pious and in-
digent candidates for the ministry Samuel Spencer, of North
                                      ;



Carolina, a Justice of the Supreme Court of that State.
  Fourteen of the graduates in these two years became minis-
                                    whom are the five clergy-
ters of the gospel, the best known of
men mentioned above.
                           CHAPTER X.
   THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL DAVIES, THE
           FOURTH PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE.

  MR. DAVIES entered upon the duties of his office on the
26th of July, 1759, as appears from the following minute of the
Trustees at their meeting on Wednesday, the 26th of Septem-
                            Commencement for that year:
ber, being the day of the annual
"
 The Rev. Mr. Samuel Davies having, pursuant to the meas-
ures taken by this Board, arrived at Nassau Hall in July last,
and entered on the office of President of the College on the
26th day of that month, was now qualified by taking the sev-
eral oaths as the Charter directs. And the Board unanimously
voted that Mr. Davies's stated salary shall begin from the Thir-
teenth Day of May last, which was the Day of the Dissolution
of his Pastoral Relation from the People of his former Charge."
It was on the l/th, and not on the I3th, that this dissolution

occurred, as appears from the minutes of the Synod of New
York and Philadelphia. It is probable that Mr. Davies an-
nounced to his church on the I3th, which was the Sabbath, his
purpose to accept the offer of the Trustees of the College and
to apply for a dissolution of the pastoral relation.
  There was no meeting of the Board between that which oc-
curred on the Qth of May, 1759, at which Mr. Davies was a
second time chosen President, and ihis meeting of the 26th of
September    ;
                 but in pursuance of the wishes of the Trustees, ex-
pressed at the time of Mr. Davies's second election, he did not
wait for a formal induction into office to begin his work as
President.       What special matters occupied his attention from
the time of his arrival until the ensuing Commencement we
have no means of ascertaining; but, from the character of the
man, there can be no doubt that he abounded            in labors   for
                                                           203
2Q4          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

the upbuilding of the institution as a seminary of religion and

learning.
   Mr. Davies presided at this Commencement. Eighteen can-
didates, who had pursued their studies at Nassau Hall, were
                                       and two others, gradu-
admitted to the first degree in the Arts               ;



ates of Yale College, were admitted to the same honor in this
College.   The second degree in the Arts was conferred upon
eight candidates, seven of whom were graduates of the College.
  The Treasurer was directed to " pay to Mr. Davies the sum
of      60. 1 7. 3, to defray the expenses of removing his family from
Hanover (Virginia) to Princetown."
                                                                     "
  By a resolution of the Board, the Steward was allowed the
sum of Twenty Shillings per annum for every Boarder in the
College for the ensuing year, which is to be continued during
the time of his continuance in the service."   This seems to
have been in lieu of a fixed salary, and constituted a part of the
expenses incurred by the College in supplying the students with
board, the profit or loss from which accrued to the College, and
not to the Steward.            It was "Ordered, That Mr. Davies's salary

for the first half-year be paid at the end of six months, and half-

yearly for the future,     when practicable." This expression,
"
     when practicable," shows that in these early times in the his-
tory of the College, notwithstanding all the aid they had received
from abroad, as well as at home, the Trustees did not always
find it easy to meet the necessary expenses of the institution.
   The Treasurer was directed to " pay Mr. Green the sum of
,100 for his six months' services in the College."                        This vote
shows that Mr. Green did not perform the duties of the Vice-
President for the whole term intervening between his appoint-
ment on the 22d of November, 1758, and the 26th of July,
when Mr. Davies entered upon his duties as President.*
     It is    most probable that, upon learning the decision of the
Synod in favor of Mr. Davies's release from his pastoral charge,

     * The entire minute of the
                                  Synod in reference to the dissolution of Mr. Davies's
pastoral charge may with propriety be here inserted, as showing the carefully con-
sidered judgment of the Synod in reference to his duty in this matter. The minute
is   as follows   :


     " An
            application to the Synod from the Board of Trustees of the College of New
          ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                                  205

Mr. Green deemed it best to retire at once from the govern-
ment of the College. The six months during which he dis-
charged the duties assigned him expired upon the 22d of May,
and it was doubtless for the services rendered during these
six months that he received the ,100 voted to him on this
occasion in accordance with the resolution adopted .at the time
of his appointment, that his salary should be at the rate of                          200
per annum.
  The next act of the Board was to " relinquish the grammar-
school into the hands of President Davies, to be wholly his prop-
erty, as it was formerly the property of the late President Burr."
  Mr. Davies was granted the liberty of educating any of his
sons in the College free from the charge of tuition-money. It
is due to the Rev. Jeremiah Halsey, the senior Tutor, that the

following minute should be copied into every history of the
College     :



  "
    Voted, That Mr. Halsey, the Senior Tutor, be desired to accept the sum of 20,
as an acknowledgment from this Board for his extraordinary Services in Favor of
the College."

  The following important order was made                             by the Board in
reference to absences from College exercises                    :



   "
     Ordered, That all licenses for students to absent themselves from the College,
or from their stated Duties or Exercises, be granted solely by the President, or in
his absence by the Tutor of such student applying for the same.
   " The Board then                until 8 o'clock next          at which hour the
                      adjourned                         morning,
members again assembled, present as before."

   From a resolution passed by the Board at this meeting, with
respect to the College building and the President's house, it
would appear that neither building had been completely finished
at this time.


Jersey for the liberation of Mr. Davies from his pastoral charge, that he may accept
the Presidency of said college, to which they elected him, was brought in and read.
  "   Asupplication was also brought in from Mr. Davies's congregation, earnestly
requesting his continuance with them.
   " The
          Synod, having seriously considered the congregation's supplication, and
fully heard all the reasonings for and against Mr. Davies's liberation, after solemn

prayer to God for direction, do, upon the whole, judge that the arguments in favor
of said liberation do preponderate, and agree that Mr. Davies's pastoral relation to
his congregation be dissolved, in order to his removal to the
                                                                    college, and do accord-
ingly hereby dissolve it."
206        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

   In reference to the purchase of books the following resolution
was adopted      :




  " That the order for a Committee to send to London for Books for the use of the

College and the Grammar School be revoked, and that President Davies be desired to
send for such Books as shall be requisite for the use of the students for the future,
and that he fix the Prices of said Books, and commit them to the care of the Steward
of the College for sale ; and Mr. Livingston is desired to assist Mr. Davies in said
Affair."


   The Mr. Livingston here mentioned is Mr. P. Van Brugh
Livingston, of New York, a merchant of that city, and a Trustee
of the College. The importation of books by the College au-
thorities, for the use of the students, continued, to a greater
or less extent, as late as the earlier part of President S. S.
Smith's administration, which extended from the spring of 1795
to the autumn of 1812.
                                                                         "
   President Davies was desired, as soon as convenient,                      to take
a Methodical Catalogue of the Books of the College Library,
and order the same to be printed at the expense of the Col-
lege."     Such a catalogue was prepared, and it was published
January 29, 1760. It was printed at Woodbridge, New Jersey,
at the well-known press of James Parker.
  A   copy of this catalogue has recently fallen into the hands
of the writer of this work. It is contained in a small pamphlet
of thirty-six pages, the last two of which are wanting. The
number of works in the library must have been about eight
hundred, the number of volumes nearly twelve hundred. The
volumes were numbered as they were placed upon the shelves,
and the highest number in the above-mentioned copy of the
catalogue is eleven hundred and seventy-five.
   This printed catalogue includes the names of ten books be-
longing to Governor Belcher's private family and given by him
to the College. The Governor's collection contained four hun-
dred and seventy-four volumes, sixty of which were folios, and
many of them valuable works.                The other books were chiefly
presents from other friends of the institution. These volumes,
with all the other books then belonging to the College library,
were consumed by the fire of March, 1802, which made Nassau
Hall a ruin.
          ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES. 207

      The following preface to the catalogue sets forth " The De-
sign of the Publication"                      :




     "A
          large and well-sorted Collection of Books on the various Branches of Litera-
ture is the most ornamental and useful Furniture of a College ; and the most proper
and valuable Fund with which it can be endowed. It is one of the best Helps to
enrich the Minds both of the Officers and Students with Knowledge to give them             ;


an extensive Acquaintance with Authors and to lead them beyond the narrow
                                                           ;


Limits of the Books to which they are confined in their stated Studies and Recita-
tions, that they may expatiate at large thro' the boundless and variegated Fields of
Science.      If they have          Books always at hand to consult upon every Subject that
may occur to them, as demanding a more thoro' Discussion, in their public Dis-
putes, in the Course of their Studies, in Conversation, or their own fortuitous Tho'ts                     ;


it   will enablethem to investigate Truth through its intricate Recesses; and to
guard against the Stratagems and Assaults of Error. It will teach them Modesty
and Self-Diffidence, when they perceive the free and different Sentiments of Men
equally great and good and give at least such Hints, as their Invention may after-
                                ;


wards improve upon, when they appear in public Life, in a Country where Books
are so scarce, and private Libraries so poor and few, that their principal Resources
must be their own Invention.
  " The
          College of New Jersey is so evidently adapted and intended for the Ad-
vancement of Religion and useful Learning among all Denominations of Protest-
ants, that it has been the favourite Object of public Charity, both in                         Great Britain
and America, from         its       first   Institution.       And by that Assistance alone it has
been raised from Nothing to its present State in a few Years; a Monument to
Posterity of the Generosity of the Age in which it was founded   and a public          ;


Proof of the Agency of Providence in Favour of great and good Designs, how-
ever impracticable they may appear in their first Projection.                    Its   Library in par-
ticular has been almost entirely formed of the Donations of several public-spirited
Gentlemen upon both sides of the Atlantic; whose names Gratitude would not
put herself to Pain in concealing, were they desirous, or even patient, of the uni-
versal Praise their disinterested Charity deserves.
     " But after all this liberal
                                        Assistance, a survey of its literary Wealth, whcih is ex-
posed to view in the following Catalogue, will soon convince the Friends of Learn-
ing and Nassau Hall how poor it still is in this important Article ; to which no
Additions can be made from the Treasury, which is far from being equal to other
unavoidable and more indispensable Exigencies.                        But few modern Authors, who
have unquestionably some Advantages above the immortal Ancients, adorn the
Shelves.   This Defect is most sensibly felt in the study of Mathematics and the
Newtonian Philosophy, in which the Students have but very imperfect Helps,
either from Books or Instruments.
   " As some valuable Benefactions have been
                                              spontaneous Offerings of unsolicited
Charity, without any other Excitement than the Knowledge of the Poverty and the
public Utility of the Foundation, this Catalogue is published to give Information to
such, who are watching for Opportunities of doing good ; and to afford particular
Benefactors the Pleasure of seeing how many others have concurred with them in
their favourite Charity."
20 8       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

   This preface was written by President Davies, and     it was


probably the        first  penned and published by him in the
                             article

interests of the College after he became its President. The re-
marks respecting the urgent need of a large and well-selected
library for the College were as apposite in every subsequent
part of its history, until very lately, as they were when first
written.
  The recent munificence of John C. Green, Esq., of New York,
has made provision for the increase of the College library, and
for its preservation, such as in all probability would more than
have satisfied the enlarged views and earnest desires of Presi-
dent Davies.         All that is now wanting, so far as the library is
concerned,     is   a fund to pay a well-qualified librarian to devote
to it his whole time.
   The next record had reference to a provision for the Trustees
dining together         ;
                            but it was cancelled,    for what reason, or by

whom, it does not appear.              It is   possible that the record was
an error, and that the motion was not adopted.               As far as it can
now be deciphered, the minute was in these words                 :




  "
    Voted, That in future at all meetings of the Trustees the Steward of the
College be ordered to furnish a Dinner for the Corporation, with proper Liquors,
that the several    members may have the conveniency of being together, and that
the said
  "
      Every Person dining at such Table may deposite what gratuity he thinks
proper for defraying the Expense thereof."


  The custom here introduced, or proposed to be introduced,
has prevailed ever since. At all their meetings the Trustees
                                   "
dine together but of late years the proper Liquors" have been
                    ;




dispensed with; and no gratuity is expected of any Trustee or
invited guest.
  Messrs. Davies, Tennent, and Cowell were appointed a com-
mittee to purchase a lot of land contiguous to the College
grounds, and belonging to the estate of the late Mr. Samuel
Hazard, of Philadelphia.   The purchase was made.
  At this meeting of the Board, the first ever attended by Pres-
ident Davies, several matters of much interest to the College
claimed the attention of the Trustees, but the most weighty of
them were embraced in these two resolutions, viz.:
        ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES. 209
  "
      Resolved, That Governor Bernard, Messrs. Davies, [W.] P. T. Smith, W. Ten-
nent, Finley, Green, Cummings, and Stockton, or any three of them, be a committee
to draw up a System of Regulations concerning Admission into College, with the

requisite Qualifications for Degrees,    and that all the Trustees who choose to be
present have liberty of voting.*
    Resolved, That Governor Bernard, Mr. Hude, Mr. W. P. T. Smith, Wm. Smith,
  "

Esq., Mr. Woodruff, Messrs. Cowell, Treat, Tennent, Finley, Green, Cummings,
and Stockton, be a Committee, any five of whom to be a Quorum, to consider of
proper measures to enlarge the Fund and to extend the usefulness of the College.
All other Trustees shall have votes in the above Committee."

   The last clause in each of these resolutions virtually made
the two committees one.              They held their first meeting at Perth
Amboy, the residence of Governor Bernard, the chairman of
both cqmmittees, on the 24th of October, 1759. There were
present on this occasion his Excellency the Governor, President
Davies, Mr. Hude, Mr. Woodruff, Mr. W. P. T. Smith, Mr. [W.]
Tennent, and Mr. Cummings.
  The following are the minutes of the committee                     :




  " The Committee not
                           being able at present to resolve upon any methods that will
have a probable Tendency to increase the Funds of the College, do agree to post-
pone the consideration of this Affair.
  " The Committee then
                          proceeded to take into Consideration the Qualifications
necessary to entitle the students to the usual Degrees. And are of the Opinion that
a Residence at College for some Time, and proper Collegiate Exercises, are neces-

sary to be enjoined on those youths who apply for said Degrees.    And the Com-
mittee request the President of the College to draw up some Regulations upon this

Head, to be laid before them at their next meeting, to [be held] the first Day of
December next; President Davies to give notice of the meeting."

   Whether the committee held another meeting is uncertain, as
there is no record of their having done so.  But, whether they
did or did not, President Davies drew up the proposed regula-
tions, which, with the consent no doubt of the members of the
committee, either formally or informally given, were submitted
to the Board at their meeting on Wednesday, the 24th of Sep-

tember, 1760, the day of the annual Commencement The
minute of the Board in reference to the action of the committee
is in   these words    :




  * These matters received due attention at the time Mr. Burr was chosen President
under the second charter, November 9, 1748. But it is probable that in the judg-
ment of the Trustees, as well as in that of President Davies, it was deemed .expe-
dient to revise the existing rules and to add to their stringency.
2io         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
  " The Committee
                       appointed at the last meeting to draw up a System of Regula-
tions concerning Admission into College, and to Degrees of Bachelor and Master
of Arts, having produced a Draught thereof, and the same being considered and
amended by the Trustees, was confirmed in the Terms following, to wit       :



  " The
        conferring of Academical Honours was intended as an Incentive to a laud-
able Ambition in Study, and as a Reward of literary Merit.    And the different
Degrees of these honorary Distinctions conferred     at different    Periods suppose a

proportional Increase of literary Merit ; and consequently a sufficient Time of Resi-
dence in College, for further prosecution of Study, and a proper previous Exami-
nation, to    discover the   Improvement of the Candidates.        And when they are
promiscuously distributed as cursory Formalities after the usual Intervals of Time,
without any previous evidence of suitable Qualifications, they sink into Contempt
as insignificant Ceremonies, and no longer answer their original Design.        Therefore
the Trustees are determined to admit none to a Degree in this College but           upon
the following terms, in Addition to those already established  :



  " Graduates from other
                          Colleges, upon producing Diplomas or other sufficient
Testimonials, shall be admitted to the same Degree in this, without any previous
Examination. But it shall be inserted in their Diplomas and publickly declared
by the President in conferring it, that it is conferred Honoris causa, according to
the Manner of some Universities abroad.         But if they stand Candidates for a
higher Degree than they have yet been admitted to, they shall submit to all the
Regulations contained in the following Articles.
  " All Candidates for a Master's
                                  Degree shall reside in or near the College at
least one    Week immediately preceding that Commencement at which they expect
to receive their Degrees.     During which Time they shall submit to the Laws and
Orders of the College.       And on the Tuesday morning immediately preceding
the last Wednesday of September (on which the Anniversary Commencement is

always held) they shall attend in the College in order to pass such an Examination
as the Trustees then present shall think necessary ; especially in such Branches of
Literature as have a more direct Connection with that Profession of Life which

they have entered upon or have in View, whether Divinity, Law, or Physick,
                                                                                     and
shall make such preparation for the Commencement as the Officers of the College
shall judge proper.
  " As so short a Residence can be an intolerable Inconvenience to but very few,

and will render the second Degree a real Honor, the Trustees will not dispense
with it in ordinary Cases. Yet as the peculiar Circumstances of some Persons of
sufficient Accomplishments may render them incapable of Residence, they are de-

sired to inform the President by Letter, some convenient Time before the Com-
mencement at which they intend to offer themselves Candidates, of the Reason of
their Incapacity; that the Trustees may judge whether they are sufficient for a Dis-

pensation for the whole or any Part of the Time required,
                                                            and what Exercise shall
be substituted instead of Residence.
  " None shall be admitted to the Honours of the College without Testimonials of
their good moral conduct, while absent from College, signed by two or more gentle-
men of Note and Veracity, in the Place where they have resided, or unless they
are   recommended from personal knowledge by one of the Trustees or College
Officers."
          ADMINISTRATION OF THE KEY. SAMUEL DA VIES.                                2 II


    Additional regulations respecting the terms of first admission
into College           :




   "
        Every student shall be obliged to reside in College at least two years before his
first   graduation and therefore, after the Expiration of one year from the next Com-
                   ;


mencement (A.D. 1760), none shall be admitted later than the Beginning of the
Junior Year. But that anybody may have Liberty to offer himself at the Public
Examination as a Candidate for a Bachelor's Degree, and if approved shall be ad-
mitted thereto accordingly upon paying the sum of Eight Pounds, being the Tuition

Money for Two years, exclusive of Degree Fees.
   " Candidates for the Freshman Class shall be
                                                   regulated by the Law already made
in such case.      But Candidates for any of the higher Classes shall not only be pre-
viously examined, as usual, but recite for Two Weeks upon Trial in that particular
Class to which they stand Candidates, and then shall be fixed in that or a lower, as
the College Officers shall judge them qualified."



    How far the rules respecting the examination of candidates
for the second degree in the Arts, and of their residence at the

College for one week, were carried into effect, and how long they
continued in force, we have no means of ascertaining. It is
not probable that they were very rigidly enforced, for after the
adoption of these rules the Bachelors of Arts admitted to their
second degree continued to be in about the same proportion to
thosewho did not receive it that they had previously been.
Had Mr. Davies lived, it is probable that he would have enforced
the observance of these rules more resolutely than his succes-
sors in office were disposed to do, as they doubtless originated
with him.              There   is   very little reason, however, for thinking
that the experiment would have been a successful one even in
his energetic hands, or a very useful one if carried into effect.
This remark has special reference to the rule requiring of can-
didates for the second degree a week's residence at or near the

College.          At the present day the proposed examinations of the
candidates, except as a mere form, would be a simple impossi-
bility. The demands upon the time and strength of the officers
during the week preceding the annual Commencement are as
much as they can meet, without engaging in a general examina-
tion of the candidates for the second degree, were they but one-

half, or even one-fourth, of their present numbers.          The present
plan       is   the only feasible one, viz., evidence that the candidate
212      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

has been engaged in professional or other studies, and that he
is   a person of correct deportment.
     A
     residence of one year is now required on the part of all
candidates for \hzjirst degree in the Arts, instead of two years
called for in this report, which was designed to be a bar to any
one's admission to a higher standing          than the Junior class
upon his first entrance into College.        It seems in
                                                       strange con-
trast with this rule that there   should be an exception to it, to
the extent that    anybody may have liberty to offer himself at
the public examinations as a candidate for a Bachelor's degree,
and if approved shall be admitted thereto accordingly upon
paying tJie tuition-money for two years, exclusive of the degree-
fees.  The latter part of this provision is of doubtful propriety,
and, so far as is known, there is no instance in the history of
the College of a degree having been conferred upon the con-
dition here mentioned.
     No change was made at this time in the terms of admission
into the Freshman class, with the exception that the candidates
must be acquainted with "Vulgar Arithmetic," in addition to
the studies previously required.
     To incite to diligence in study, it was " Voted, That for the
                   and Tutors, with any other gentlemen of
future the President
Education who shall choose to be present, shall examine an-
                                         "
nually," before the Commencement,      the several classes, and
that such as are found unqualified shall not be allowed to rise
in   the usual course."
     This whole action shows that there was a desire and a purpose
on the part of President Davies to elevate the standard of scholar-
ship, both before and after the conferring of the first degree in
the Arts, among those who sought to obtain from the College
literary honors.
     Besides the measures mentioned above, most of which were
designed to stir up the students to greater diligence, several
other matters of moment to the College received the attention
of the Board and led to action on the part of the Trustees.
Among these were the following, viz. provision for an annual
                                         :




inspection of the Steward's accounts, and also of the Treas-
urer's, and for a full and regular report by the Examining
         ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES. 213

Committee       ;
                    the   purchase of additional       lots       contiguous to
the College; an order that in future no candidate be admitted
to a Degree unless he produce a certificate that he is not in
arrears to the College  a discretionary power given to the
                               ;



President and Tutors to substitute other punishments, short
of suspension, in lieu of fines for minor offences against
College order an authority to substitute Psalmody at even-
                     ;




ing prayer, for reading a portion of Scripture, the reading of
which had been usual both morning and evening in the Chapel
service.
  The President and Tutors were authorized to appoint any of
the students to read a portion of the sacred Scriptures out of
the original language at morning prayers. This indicates that
the study of the Scriptures in the original languages was an ob-
ject of careful attention at this time.          Measures were also taken
for the preparing of a historical account of the rise and progress
and present state of the College. This matter was intrusted to
a committee consisting of President Davies, the Rev. William

Tennent, Rev. David Cowell, and Richard Stockton. Doubt-
less the expectation was that President Davies would write the

history.   But his sudden death, in the course of a few months
after,prevented his performing this service for the College.
Mr. Cowell, another member of the committee, died a short
time before Mr. Davies himself.
  As there is no intimation in the minutes of the Board of any
material change in the course of instruction during the admin-
istration ofMr. Davies, it is more than probable that it con-
tinued to be very much the same as it was previously to his
accession to the Presidency           ;
                                          with the exception, perhaps, that
more attention was given to public speaking.              President Green,
in his
          "
         Notes," remarks of President Davies,    poet and an
                                                              "
                                                                  A
orator himself, he turned the attention of his pupils to the
cultivation of English composition and eloquence with great
effect.       He introduced        the practice, ever since        continued, of
delivering monthly orations by members of the Senior class."
   President Green further observes, "The number of students
under the administration of President Davies cannot be exactly
ascertained.        It probably did       not at any time exceed a hundred,
214       H^TORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
and at his death it must have come very little short of that
number." If an estimate can be made from the number of
graduates from 1759 to 1761, the entire number of students in
the College at any one time during President Davies's adminis-
tration must have fallen considerably short of a hundred; al-

though there is reason to believe that there was a much larger
number     at the   time of his decease than at the time of his
accession to the Presidency.
  The various matters detailed above indicate that there was
                                    mind at the head of the
at this period of its history an active

College, from whom great things might have been expected
had it pleased God to spare him to the institution. But, in
the wise and holy ordering of Divine Providence, President
Davies was removed by death on the 4th of February, 1761             ;




having served the College in his      office as   President a   little

more than eighteen months.
  The officers of the College during his administration were
Messrs. Samuel Davies, A.M., President       Jeremiah Halsey,
                                             ;




A.M., Senior Tutor; Joseph Treat, Jr., A.B., Tutor; Jacob Ker,
A.B., Tutor.
   Mr. Halsey was a Tutor in the College from 1757 to 1767,
and he was a Trustee in the College from 1770 to 1781. He
was an excellent teacher, and a most valuable College offi-
cer   and as such was held in great esteem by the College
      ;



authorities. At the time of his death he was minister of the
Presbyterian church of Lamington, New Jersey.    He died in
1781.
  Mr. Treat, in October, 1762, was installed as a colleague of
the Rev. David Bostwick, pastor of the Presbyterian church
in the city ofNew York. He left the city at the beginning
of the  Revolutionary War, and never returned, but served
the churches of Lower Bethlehem and Greenwich, in Sussex

County, New Jersey, until his death in 1797.
  Mr. Ker was ordained by the Presbytery of New Brunswick
in 1764, and on the 29th of August in that year he was in-
stalled as pastor of thechurches of Monokin and Wicomico,
Maryland,  where he  remained  until his death, July 29, 1795.
In a minute adopted by the Presbytery of Lewes he is spoken
        ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                            215

of as a great and good man, whose loss was sensibly felt by
the Church in general, and by that Presbytery in particular.
   In the summer of 1759, Governor Bernard was transferred to
Massachusetts, as Governor of that Province, and his Excellency
Thomas Boone, Esq., succeeded him in the government of New
Jersey.
  On his first visit to Princeton, July 8, 1760, Governor Boone
was attended by Mr. Chief-Justice Morris and several other
gentlemen of distinction, and he was introduced into Nassau
Hall by the President and Tutors, who presented the following
address      :



" To his
         Excellency Thomas Boone, Esq., His Majesty's Governor and Com-
  mander-in-Chief of the Province of New Jersey, Chancellor and Vice-Admiral
  of the same, etc.

" The humble Address of the President and Tutors of the
                                                           College of New Jersey.
  "          The President and Tutors of the College of New Jersey give your Ex-
      SIR,
cellency a most cordial welcome to Nassau Hall, and beg leave warmly to con-
gratulate your Excellency upon your accession to the Government of this Province,
where the minds of so many are happily prepossessed in your favor by the agree-
able anticipations they have received of your Excellency's character.
   "
     Though we form a very high estimate, Sir, of the importance of your Excel-
lency's patronage to the prosperity of this Infant College, which has been founded
by one and countenanced by another of your predecessors, yet we would use no
artifice to pre-engage your Excellency's friendship and protection without the

sanction of your own well-informed judgment; but we lay ourselves open to your

Excellency's inspection, and invite you to enquire into its constitution, the modes
of instruction and discipline, the care taken of the principles and morals of the
Students, and their progress in the various branches of literature and then we
                                                                    ;


shall cheerfully leave your Excellency to follow the conduct of your own judgment
and the impulse of a patriot heart, ever friendly to true learning and virtue, but
ever an enemy to pedantry, bigotry, and idle pretensions, only begging your Excel-

lency would make some candid allowances for those unavoidable imperfections that
result from the present Infant State of this Institution, which has been raised from

nothing in a few years, by the hand of public charity recommended only by its
poverty and apparent subserviency to the general good.
  " We
         beg leave, Sir, particularly to request your Excellency to honor the next
public Examination with your presence, when you will have the best opportunity
of informing yourself what are the branches of literature taught in this Seminary,
and what proficiency has been made by the young Gentlemen under our tuition.
  " We
         hope, Sir, our future conduct will verify the engagements which we now
voluntarily assume to your Excellency, That we shall continue with the utmost
assiduity to instil into young minds such principles as thro' the blessing of
Heaven form the Scholar, the Patriot, and the Christian.    And should we neglect
2 i6               HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

so essential an article of our duty we should anticipate our own doom, and expect

your Excellency's severest animadversions, in conjunction with the other Trustees,
of whom you are             now President   ;
                                                and who, we doubt not, will give your Excel-
lency proper expressions of their duty and congratulation at their next convention.
  "
    May all the happiness a Patriot can diffuse, or a free People enjoy, attend your
administration and may all the felicities which Heaven has made the rewards of
                        !



such a beneficent administration ever attend your Excellency            !



                                                  " SAMUEL DA
                                                                            VIES, President.

  " To which his
                            Excellency was pleased to return the following answer    :




  "
      GENTLEMEN, I am exceedingly obliged to you for this polite Salutation on my
arrival  among you. The proper education of Youth influences so materially all
Government, that this laudable Establishment has a natural claim to the patronage
of his Majesty's Substitute;and with the advantage of such eminent and respect-
able tuition, I have not the least doubt but the Youth will be distinguished by the

acquisition of every useful and valuable accomplishment.
                                                                        "THOMAS BOONE.
  "
      Prince-Town, July 8, 1760.

  " His
                   Excellency was also complimented by two young gentlemen of the Senior
Class, in a Latin           and an English Oration ; and an air of sincere congratulation
appeared on every countenance."

   The same year the Governor was present at the Commence-
ment exercises, and presided at the meetings of the Board.
This was the only Commencement attended by Governor Boone,
who the next year was made Governor of South Carolina, and
it was the second and last Commencement at which Mr. Davies


presided.
   The following report of the Commencement is copied from
           "
the                Pennsylvania Gazette" of October 9, 1760:
  "Prince Town, Nassau Hall, September 25, 1760. Yesterday the Anniversary
Commencement of the College was held here. The Procession of the Trustees and
Candidates from the President's House to Nassau Hall began at the Ringing of the
Bell precisely at 10 o'clock in the forenoon. The Order was, The Candidates for
the Degree of Bachelor of Arts first, two and two, uncovered ; the Candidates for
the Degree of Master of Arts followed next, uncovered; and the Trustees, accord-

ing to their Seniority, the youngest first, and the Governor and President last, con-
cluded.    When the Candidates arrived at the steps of the Middle Entrance into
the Hall they stopt, and the whole Procession divided itself equally on each side
of the gravel Walk, and entered in an inverted Order.                The Collegiate Exercises
began with a handsome Salutatory Oration in Latin, pronounced by Mr. Jonathan
Smith then followed a Latin Syllogistick Dispute, wherein the Respondent held
               ;


that  Sermo primitus ab Inspiratione divina Originem duxit,' which was well main-
       '




tained and opposed.   When this was concluded, Mr. Benjamin Rush arose, and in
         ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV, SAMUEL DA VIES. 217

a very sprightly and entertaining Manner delivered an ingenious English Harangue
in Praise of Oratory.   Then succeeded a Forensick Dispute in English, in which it
was held that The Elegance of an Oration much consists in the Words being con-
                 '




sonant to the Sense.' The Respondent, Mr. Samuel Blair, acquitted himself with
universal Applause in the elegant Composition and Delivery of his Defence    ;
                                                                                and
his Opponent answered him with Humour and Pertinency.         This was succeeded by
a Latin Dispute in a Socratick Way, in which the Respondent affirmed that Sys-
                                                                             '



tema Ethicae perfectum in praesenti Hominum Conditione, sine Ope divinse Revela-
tionis, construi nequit ;' and by a well-composed Valedictory Oration in English by
Mr. Enoch Green. The Singing of an Ode on Science, composed by the President
of the College, concluded the Forenoon Exercises.
   " The Entertainment in the Afternoon
                                           began with the Address to His Excellency
the Governor [Boone] by Mr. Stockton in the Name of the Trustees.       After which
the Candidates for the Master's Degree disputed in Latin the following Question :
'
    An Rector civilis ullam, in Rebus Fidei, Potestatem habeat,' and Nonne absurdum
                                                                 '




est   Deum immutabilem precari,' which were learnedly defended and ingeniously
opposed. The President then descended from the Rostrum, and with the usua
Formalities conferred the Degrees of Bachelor of Arts and of Master of Arts.
  " Mr.
        Joseph Treat, one of the Masters of Arts and a Tutor in the College, then
ascended, and delivered an elegant, pathetic Valedictory Oration in English, in the
Close of which he very handsomely touched upon the present flourishing State of
our Public Affairs in North America. The Singing of an Ode on Peace composed

by the President concluded the whole, to the Universal Pleasure and Satisfaction of
a numerous Auditory."



      The Odes, one on Science and the other on Peace, composed
by President Davies, and sung at the close of the morning and
evening exercises, were many years later confounded with a
poetic dialogue recited, with choral songs, at the Commence-
ment of 1762.
      The reader will probably observe that in the above account
of this Commencement              all   the substantives are begun with a
capital letter,         a   mode of writing and printing formerly much
in vogue, and to which Dr. Franklin gave a decided preference,
as being "so useful to those who are not well acquainted with
the language." This appears from a letter of his, of the date
of December 26, 1789, to Noah Webster, Esq., "On Modern
Innovations in the English Language and in Printing."
  Among the graduates of the College during Mr. Davies's
administration who rose to greater or less distinction were the
following, in 1760:
      Joseph Alexander, D.D.            He was very active in the cause
 of education in both North and South Carolina, and founder of
       VOL. I.   15
2 i8    HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

a school, which became a college, under the title of Queen's
Museum.
  John Archer, M.D.        He was a member of the House of
Representatives of the United States from 1801 to 1807.
  Samuel Blair, D.D., son of the Rev. Samuel Blair, of Fagg's
Manor. When twenty-six years of age he was chosen by the
Trustees President of the College, but declined the appoint-
ment.
  Enos Kelsey.     During the Revolution he held a responsible
                                       For many years he was
office in the Clothier-General's office.
the Treasurer of the College.
  Benjamin Rush, M.D.        A
                             signer of the Declaration of In-
dependence   ;Physician- and Surgeon-General for the Middle
Military District; member of the Convention for forming the
Constitution of the United States   ;
                                        and Professor in the Medical
Department of the University of Pennsylvania.
  Jonathan Bayard Smith, a member of the Continental Con-
gress, from Pennsylvania, in 1777 and 1778.    Mr. Smith made
a large donation of books to the College library.
                        CHAPTER XL
MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DAVIES, FOURTH PRESIDENT OF
            THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

     PRESIDENT DAVIES was born near Summit Bridge, New Castle
County, Delaware, November 3, 0. S., 1723. At that time Dela-
ware was a part of Pennsylvania. The year here mentioned
is   given upon the authority of a table in President Davies's
handwriting.   The Bible, upon a blank leaf of which this table
was written, was in the possession of some of President Davies's
descendants, residing in Petersburg, Virginia, as late as the
                                                       "
year 1853, as appears from a sketch of his life in the Presbyte-
rian Magazine" for that year.  This sketch, although very brief,
is   very valuable, as it contains information previously published
nowhere else, except in Dr. Foote's " Sketches of Virginia." The
year of his birth, as given upon his tombstone, is 1724; and
this has been doubtless the occasion of a like error in several
of the biographical notices of him.    He was of Welsh descent,
and his parents were of humble origin, but persons of good
character and fervent piety.   The mother is said to have been
a woman of uncommon powers of mind, and also eminent for
her faith and zeal. He was named Samuel, after Samuel the
prophet. The mother of the prophet called him Samuel be-
cause she had asked him of the LORD; and for the same reason
the mother of President Davies called her son Samuel, thereby

expressing her belief that God had heard her prayer, as, ages
before, he had heard the prayer of Hannah.     Like Hannah, we
have reason to believe, she had solemnly vowed that if the LORD
would give her a man-child she would devote him to the LORD
all his days  and from the birth of her son she seems to have
              ;



regarded him as a child given to her to be trained for the gospel
ministry.
                                                           219
22O      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  In a letter to his friend Dr. Gibbons, of London, after speak-
                                                    "
ing of these things, President Davies adds, This early dedi-
cation to God has always been a strong inducement to me to
devote myself to Him by my own personal act; and the most
important blessings of my life I have looked upon as imme-
diate answers to the prayers of a pious mother.             But, alas   !



what a degenerate plant am I   ! How unworthy such a parent
and such a birth !"
  In his early childhood he was taught by his mother, and
when ten years of age he was sent to an English school some
distance from his father's residence, and remained there two

years.  At this school he is said to have made rapid progress
in his studies. For want of the religious training which he
enjoyed at home, he became somewhat careless in his attention
to his religious interests but he still made a practice of secret
                         ;




prayer, especially in the evening.   And it is worthy of note
that in his prayers at this very time he prayed more earnestly
that he   might be a minister of the gospel than for any other
thing.   In the fifteenth year of his age he made a public pro-
fession of his faith in Christ, and entered upon a course of study

preparatory to the ministry. Two or three of his biographers
speak of his uniting with the Church, forgetting that in virtue
of his birth he was a member of the Church and that             by his
baptism in infancy he had been recognized as a member.
  His classical studies were begun under the tuition of the Rev.
Abel Morgan, a Baptist preacher of much note at that time               ;



but he was afterwards sent to the school of the Rev. Samuel
Blair, at Fagg's Manor, Chester County, Pennsylvania.    Under
the guidance of this learned and eloquent divine he was trained
for the gospel ministry, and  on the 3Oth of July, 1746, being
in the twenty-third year of his age, he was licensed to preach
by the Presbytery of New Castle. By this same Presbytery he
was ordained as an evangelist, February 19, 1747, O. S., with a
view to his visiting the Presbyterian churches in Virginia. On
the 23d of October, 1746, he was married to Miss Sarah Kirk-
patrick, who, with her infant son, died on the i6th of September,
1747.   At the time of his licensure his health was quite feeble,
and it continued so for some years   :
                                         still,   he was resolved that
           MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                   2 2I


while life and sufficient strength remained he would devote
himself earnestly to the work of preaching the gospel and this
                                                        ;


he did with eminent success.    His going to Virginia was not
of his own motion, but in compliance with the advice and desire
of the Presbytery.
  Before visiting Hanover, which was more especially to be the
field of his labor, he visited Williamsburg, the seat of the   Colo-
nialGovernment, and petitioned the General Court to grant
him " a license to officiate in and about Hanover at four meet-
ing-houses." The court hesitated; but the Governor, the Hon-
orable Wm. Gooch, favoring the application, the license was

granted.
   At this very time there were pending in this court suits
against sundry members of the Presbyterian Church, for attend-
ing religious assemblies at unlicensed houses and listening to
preachers who had not obtained from the General Court per-
mission to preach. From an early date Episcopacy was estab-
lished in Virginia, and the   Church in this Province had been
placed under the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Bishop of
London, whose Commissary resided at Williamsburg, and was
a member of the General Court, and also Rector or President of
William and Mary College. The first Commissary, the Rev.
John Blair, may be regarded as the founder of the College, as
he more than any other person was instrumental in obtaining
for it a royal charter, and also important grants both from the

King and from the Colonial Legislature. Dr. William Dawson,
the Commissary when Davies applied for his license, was a
liberal-minded man,/0r those times, and he is believed to have
voted in favor of granting the license sought. Yet it would
seem from some of his correspondence with the Bishop of Lon-
don that even he was somewhat disturbed at the success of Mr.
Davies, and at the numerous additions to the Dissenters from
the ranks of the conformists.     Mr. Davies's labors were most
arduous,   and  no  one but a man   of resolute will and of great
natural resources could have done what he by the grace of God
was stirred up to undertake and enabled to accomplish.
   Having obtained his license, Mr. Davies went to Hanover,
and was received with outbursts of joy. " His coming," says
222      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
              "
Dr. Foote,   with his license was like a visit from an angel
of mercy.    His ardent sermons refreshed the congregation,
and his legal protection turned the enmity of his opposers to
their    own mortification."            He continued at Hanover several
months.
  Of his mission Mr. Davies thus writes " I preached fre-
                                                        :




quently in Hanover and some of the adjacent counties, and
though the fervor of the work was considerably abated, and
my labors were not blessed with success equal to that of my
brethren, yet I have reason to hope they were of service in sev-
eral instances.  The importunities they used with me to settle
with them were invincible           ;
                                        and upon my departure they sent a
call for   me to the Presbytery."
  The death of his first wife, which occurred about this time,
greatly depressed    him   :
                                   this,   together with feeble health and
threatening consumption, disinclined him to settle anywhere
permanently as the pastor of a church and he continued to
                                                    ;



travel  and preach wherever a favorable opportunity presented
itself.  Dr. Gibbons, narrating the circumstances as he received
them from Mr. Davies, says, " Finding himself upon the borders
of the grave, and without any hopes of a recovery, he determined
to spend the little remains of an almost exhausted life in endeav-

oring to advance his Master's glory in the good of souls. Ac-
cordingly, he removed from the place where he was to another
about an hundred miles distance, that was then in want of a min-
ister.  Here he labored in season and out of season. And, as
he told me, he preached in the day and had his hectic fever
by night, and that to such a degree as to be sometimes de-
lirious and to stand in need of persons to sit up with him."

(See Dr. Gibbons's "Two Discourses, occasioned by the Death
of President Davies."    London, 1761.)
                               "
  In the spring of 1748   he began to recover, though he looked
upon it only as the intermission of a disorder that would finally
prove mortal. Many earnest applications were made for his
pastoral services.  The one from Hanover, signed by about
one hundred and fifty heads of families, came with renewed
importunity, and, aided by the voice of the living messenger
despatched by the people to urge their call, moved his heart."
               MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.               223

He accepted their call, " hoping," as he himself expresses    it,   "I
might live to prepare the way for some more useful successor,
and willing to expire under the fatigues of duty rather than in
voluntary negligence."
  "                                             "
         scarcely possible," says Dr. Foote,
       It is                                  for a missionary
to have gone to Virginia in circumstances better calculated to
make an impression in favor of the gospel which he preached.
In his domestic afflictions and bodily weakness Davies felt the
sentence of death gone out and already in execution. His soul
burned with the desire of usefulness, and his tongue uttered
the earnest persuasions of a spirit that would reconcile man to
God, and lay some trophies at the Redeemer's feet, before his
lips should be locked  up in the grave. He longed to carry with
him to the heavens some gems for the eternal crown. The peo-
ple of Hanover were ready for an elevated spirit to lead them
on through common and uncommon difficulties, through trials
incident to all men, and the trials peculiar to their situation from
the laws of the province, complaints, ridicule, indictments, fines,
and heavy costs of court, to virtue and eternal life." (Foote's
"Sketches of Virginia," page 163.)
   In his second visit to Virginia he was accompanied by his
fellow-student and earnest friend the Rev. John Rodgers, who
later in life was minister of the Presbyterian churches in New
York. But, not being able to obtain a license from the General
Court, Mr. Rodgers tarried only for a short time, and Mr. Davies
was left alone to minister to the Dissenters in Hanover and the
adjacent counties. The different congregations or assemblies
to which he ministered were scattered over a large district of

country, not less than sixty miles, in length, and the licensed
places for preaching, of which there were seven, were, the near-
est, twelve or fifteen miles apart.    Alicense for Mr. Davies
to preach, ata house to be erected for the purpose in the
county of New Kent, granted by the court of that county, was
revoked by the General Court, which claimed exclusive juris-
diction in this matter.    The vexations to which Dissenters in
Virginia were subjected at this time     a hundred and twenty-
five   years ago    would seem incredible were it not a thing of
unquestionable record.     As the religious teacher of his people,
224    HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

and also as the advocate and defender of their civil rights and
religious liberties, Mr. Davies labored with untiring diligence.
He preached with a power that attracted the attention of both
friends and opponents   ;
                            and before the court he maintained, in
opposition to the Attorney-General of the Province, and with
an ability which elicited the commendation of the members of
the bar, the rights of the Dissenters in Virginia to all the con-
cessions in the English Act of Toleration.  He wrote to the well-
known Dr. Doddridge, of England, and solicited and obtained
his aid in bringing to the notice of the Bishop of London the

hardships to which the Dissenters were subjected by what he
                                                 "
regarded as the false interpretation given to the Toleration
Act" as in force in England and Wales.         Dr. Doddridge's   ill

health prevented his pursuing the subject beyond sending to
Mr. Davies the answer of the Bishop, and copies of some ex-
tracts from letters sent to the Bishop   from the friends of Epis-
copacy in England.
  To the Bishop's letter to Dr. Doddridge Mr. Davies prepared
an elaborate reply, in which he argues at great length, and with
much force, against the position assumed by the Bishop, and
the charges insinuated against himself in the letters sent to his
Lordship. This reply Mr. Davies sent to Mr. Mauduit, of Lon-
don, to be communicated to Drs. Avery and Doddridge, leaving
itto their discretion whether to forward it to the Bishop or not.
Dr. Doddridge died before the letter reached England, and Dr.
Avery and Mr. Mauduit decided against sending it; and Dr.
Avery so informed Mr. Davies. The length of the letter he
regarded as a serious objection to it, and one which he thought
was sure to prevent its consideration, and even the reading of
it, by the prelate to whom it was addressed.
                                                 Another reason
assigned by Dr. Avery for coming to the decision he did was
the fact, that, in replying to a statement made by the Bishop,
in his letter to Dr. Doddridge, that the non-conformists of   New
England were strongly opposed to the appointing of two or
three Bishops for the Plantations, as those Provinces were then
called, although the Bishops were to have no jurisdiction except
over the clergy of their own Church, Mr. Davies says that in the
Synod of which he is a member he never heard of an objection
               MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                                    225

to the     appointment of Bishops for the purpose mentioned in
his Lordship's letter, and that he was extremely surprised at
the information received by his Lordship concerning the recep-
tion of this proposal by the non-conformists in New England,
and that they used all their influence to obstruct it. And Mr.
               "
Davies adds, I never had the least intimation of it before,
although some of the principal ministers maintain a very unre-
served correspondence with me, and I have also the other
usual methods of receiving intelligence from a country so near.
If it    be true, I think with your Lordship that                      it   was hardly
consistent with a spirit of toleration ;" and more in a like strain.
  In writing to Mr. Davies the reasons why Mr. Mauduit and
himself agreed that it was not advisable to send to his Lordship
Mr. Davies's letter, Dr. Avery says:
  " I shall not enter into
                             any debate with you concerning the scheme proposed for
erecting a Bishoprick in North America.       The less said on that head, either on
your side or on our side of the water, I believe the better. But one thing in yours,
addressed to his lordship, greatly surprised me.         You represent your friends in
North America, particularly in     New York, Virginia, and Massachusetts, as far as
your correspondence reaches, if not as desiring, yet as willing to acquiesce, in having
such an ecclesiastical superior officer sent over to America, with power to ordain,
confirm, &c.    Now all my accounts from Connecticut, the Jerseys, and Massa-
chusetts directly    and strongly contradict this.    They uniformly speak of it as a
measure quite inconsistent with their peace and tranquillity.    From both the minis-
try and laity in these colonies I have received      thanks for doing the little I did do,
or could do, to prevent so sore a calamity as that seemed likely to prove to the col-
onies.  These I have had from many quarters; and some of them expressed in
strong and irritating terms.  Yours to his lordship is the first letter I have seen from
those parts expressing a desire, or so much as an indifference and coolness, on that
head.    This must be my excuse for not forwarding your letter to his lordship;
though on several other accounts, on which I cannot enlarge, I should not have
thought it proper to be put into his hands."

  The admirable good sense and great modesty of Davies, as
well as his truly catholic spirit, are manifest in his reply to Dr.

Avery's     letter     informing him why his              letter to the      Bishop of
London was not forwarded to that prelate, as will appear from
the following extract          :



  " Since I received
                     yours I have been uneasy lest my letter to his lordship should
be put into his hands without your approbation, as my sentiments therein expressed,
concerning the mission of bishops to North America, were different from yours in
your letter to me.    When I expressed my satisfaction in the proposal, I spake in the
226        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

simplicity of my heart and according to my judgment, which I have had no reason
to alter since, but only your dissent, in which I put implicit confidence, as
                                                                                you have
better opportunities to discover the consequences of such missions than I.   That
the settlement of bishops in the dissenting colonies would be injurious to them I
can easily see ; but I find by the Bishop of London's letter to Dr. Doddridge that
this was not proposed.   And I was not able to discern what injury the settlement
of a bishop in Virginia or Maryland, where the Church of England is established,
would be to the few dissenters in them, and I was not without hopes it might tend
to purge out the corrupt leaven from the established church, and restrain the clergy
from their extravagances, who now behave as they please, and promise themselves
impunity, as there is none to censure or depose them on this side of the Atlantic.
However, dear sir, if you think me mistaken, you may take what measure you think
proper to prevent any ill consequences that may be occasioned by the unreserved
declaration of my opinion in my letter to his lordship. And as I shall hereafter
impose upon you the trouble of rescinding and reviewing the papers I may find
occasion to transmit to England on the affairs of the dissenters in Virginia, I not

qnly allow, but request you, sir, to correct or suppress them as your superior judg-
ment may direct you.    As I judge the matter is of great importance to the interests
of religion in this colony, I would not willingly incur guilt by omitting any means
in   my power to reflect light upon it; but for want of judgment and a more thorough
acquaintance with the state of affairs in England, I may sometimes fail in the right
choice or prudent use of means for that purpose, and therefore, to prevent any ill

consequences, I must call in the assistance of your judgment and that of the Com-
mittee."

      The committee here mentioned was one which was charged
with the duty of looking after the interest of the Dissenters in
all   matters brought to the notice of the Government or Court.
Of this committee, as appears from Mr. Davies's journal while
he was in England, Dr. Avery was for thirty years or more a
prominent and active member.
  It was at this period, and not during Mr. Davies's visit to

England, as has been said in some sketches of his life, that he
obtained the opinion of Sir Dudley Ryder, the Attorney-General
of England, sustaining his view of the rights of the Dissenters
under the Toleration Act.*   This legal opinion was obtained by
Dr. Avery, chairman of the above-named committee, who sent
a copy of it with the letter from which the above extract was

     * It was Sir
                    Dudley Ryder's opinion, that under the Act of Toleration Dissenters
might ask for the licensure of as many houses as they thought necessary, without
fear of refusal, and also that this interpretation of the Act extended to Virginia.
Whereas the Governor and Council claimed the right to determine the number of
                                            And the Bishop of London favored
houses of worship to be allowed the Dissenters.
this claim of the civil authorities in that Province.
                MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                                227

taken, in order that Mr. Davies might lay it before the Governor
and Council of Virginia.
   "                         "
     Here," says Dr. Foote,    the matter rested till Mr. Davies
visited England.    After his  return from England he received
two letters from the committee           They show the interest
taken     in the   cause of the Dissenters in Virginia by the Dis-
senters in England,          and that all hope of redress from civil
authority lay in an appeal to the             King."
  The labors of Mr. Davies challenge our admiration. They
were in season and out of season. Not only did he watch for
the spiritual good of his hearers, residents of Hanover and of
four contiguous counties, preaching statedly at the seven differ-
ent licensed houses, and carry on an extensive correspondence
with prominent ministers at home and abroad, but he found
time to attend the meetings of Presbytery and Synod, to make
missionary tours in the counties of Cumberland, Powhatan,
Prince Edward, Charlotte, Campbell, Nottaway, and Amelia,
and thus prepare the way for the erection of churches in these
counties, and to maintain, as we have seen, the religious liber-
ties of his people against the bigotry and tyranny of their op-

pressors and all this before attaining the age of thirty years.
            ;



   The following extract, taken from one of his letters to Dr.
                                       "
Bellamy, and copied from Dr. Green's Notes," gives no doubt
the most reliable account of his pastoral labors during the first
three years of his ministry in Virginia:
   "In October, 1748, besides the four meeting-houses already mentioned, the
people petitioned for the licensing of three more, which, with great difficulty, was ob-
tained. Among these seven I have divided my time. Three of them lie in Hanover

County, the other four in the counties of Henrico, Caroline, Louisa, and Gooch-
land.  The nearest are twelve or fifteen miles distant from each other, and the
extremes about forty.   My congregation is extremely dispersed    ;
                                                                      and notwithstand-
ing the number of meeting-houses, some live twenty, some thirty, and a few forty
miles from the nearest.  Were they all compactly situated in one county, they
would be sufficient to form three distinct congregations. Many of the church
people also attend when there is a sermon at any of these houses. This I looked
upon, at first, as mere curiosity after novelty but as it continues, and in some
                                                 ;



places seems to increase, I cannot but look upon it as a happy token of their being
at length thoroughly engaged.    And I have the greater reason to hope so now, as
experience has confirmed my former hopes ; fifty or sixty families having thus been
happily entangled in the net of the gospel by their own curiosity, or some such
motive.   There are three hundred communicants in my congregation, of whom
228        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

the greatest number are, in the judgment of rational charity, real Christians ; be-
sides some who, through excessive scrupulousness, do not seek admission to the
Lord's table.
  " There is a number of
                           Negroes, sometimes I see a hundred or more, among my
hearers.   I have baptized about forty of them within these three years, upon such
a profession of faith as I then judged credible.    Some of them, I fear, have aposta-
tized, but others, I trust, will persevere to the end.   I   have had as satisfying evi-
dence of the sincere piety of several of them as I ever had from any person in
my life, and their artless simplicity, their passionate aspirations after Christ, their
incessant endeavors to know and do the will of God, have charmed me. But, alas         !



while my charge is so extensive I cannot take sufficient pains with them for their
instruction, which often oppresses my heart.   There have been instances of un-
happy apostasy among us ; but, blessed be God, not many in proportion to the
number brought under concern. At present there are a few under promising
impressions, but in general security prevails," etc.
   " The home of Mr.
                       Davies," says President Green, "was in the county of Han-
over, about twelve miles from Richmond ; but his occasional labors were extended
through a considerable part of the Colony, and he acquired an influence greater,
probably, than any other preacher of the gospel in Virginia ever possessed. It was
the influence of fervent piety and zeal directed by a mind of uncommon compass
and force. He took pains to instruct the negroes, and a considerable number of
them were seals of his ministry.     Till this   day [1822] many of the descendants
of his negro converts manifest the happy effects of the pious instructions and ex-

ample of their parents."

   In the autumn of 1752 the Synod of New York held their
sessions at Newark, New Jersey, the day after the College Com-
mencement. Mr. Davies was present at the meetings of the
Synod, and on this occasion he met President Edwards, who
was on a visit to his son-in-law, the Rev. Aaron Burr. Writing
to a gentleman in Scotland under the date of November 24 of
                              "
that year, Mr. Edwards says,    When I was lately in New
Jersey, in the time of the Synod there, ... I then had the
comfort of a short interview with Mr. Davies, of Virginia,
and was much pleased with him and                        his conversation.          He
appears to be a         man of very solid understanding, discreet in
his behavior,        and polished and gentlemanly in his manners,
as well as fervent and zealous in religion."    High praise from a
high source    No doubt this interview confirmed the exalted
                 !




opinion Mr. Davies had of the great talents, learning, and piety
of Mr. Edwards,* and increased his desire that Mr. Edwards

  * In his farewell sermon to his                                          " as
                                    people in Hanover he speaks of Edwards
the profoundest reasoner and the greatest divine that America has ever produced."
                  MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.

upon leaving Northampton should remove to Virginia,    and
to effect which he labored with his wonted promptness   and
assiduity.  But Mr. Edwards removed to Stockbridge, Massa-
chusetts, and his connection there with the Indian missions
prevented his entertaining the earnest solicitation of Mr. Davies
and his friends, that he should come to Virginia and settle
there, where adequate provision for the support of himself and
family was promised, and, we may add, was virtually secured.
  In the account given of President Burr's administration,
chapter vi., mention was made of the fact that, at the request
of the Trustees of the College, the Rev. Messrs. Gilbert Ten-
nent and Davies visited Great Britain and Ireland to solicit funds
in aid  of the College, and more especially for the erection of
suitable buildings for the accommodation of the officers and the
students.         Mention was also made of the great success of their
mission, whereby ample funds were obtained for the erection of
                     "
the edifice known as Nassau Hall," and for the building of
the President's house, and the foundation of the charitable fund
of the College, which by several bequests in later times was
much augmented, and has done a great work in opening the
way for the liberal education of poor and pious young men who
were willing and even desirous to devote themselves to the gospel
ministry.  Of these matters we shall not here speak further         ;



but of Mr. Davies's visit to England and Scotland, of his preach-
              numerous and valuable acquaintances formed
ing, and of the
by him while abroad, and of the deep impression which he
made upon the minds of those with whom he came into con-
tact,   it   is   both proper and just that something should be said
in a sketch like this.

   Having agreed to accompany Mr. Tennent in this agency in
behalf of the College, in case the Synod of New York should
approve of his so doing, Mr. Davies left Hanover on Monday,
the 3d of September, 1753, to attend the sessions of the Synod
of New York, to be held in the city of Philadelphia, in the
early part of October, and that he might have an opportunity
to confer with the College authorities and to make the requi-
site preparations for his voyage to England. His memorandum

under the date of September 3, 1753, is in these words:
230
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
  " This
          morning I felt the painful rupture of the tender relative ties which bind
me to Hanover,     I took my leave of some thousands yesterday in public, and

to-day I parted with some select friends, and my dear, dear spouse, my honored
parents, and three helpless children, and left them in tears.   To thee, O Lord, I
then solemnly committed them, and now I renew the dedication.           I know not that

I shall   ever see them again, but my life and theirs are in the hands of Divine
Providence, and therefore shall be preserved as long as is fit," etc.

   On his way to Philadelphia and Newark, Mr. Davies spent
several days at the house of his friend, and his successor in the
office of President of the College, the Rev. Samuel Finley, who
was then residing at Nottingham, Maryland. Here he met a
committee of his Presbytery, and in conjunction with Messrs.
Finley, Roan, and (Robert) Smith, revised and corrected a
draft drawn up by Mr. (John) Blair, of a warning or testimony
of the Presbytery of New Castle (New Side) against several
errors and evil practices of Mr. John Cuthbertson, a native of
Scotland.*
  The five members of the Presbytery here mentioned all
became men of note; and it is worthy of remark that two of
them, viz., Davies and Finley, were, some years after, Presidents
of the College of New Jersey, that Mr. Blair was the first
prominent Vice-President and Professor in the College, and that
Dr. Robert Smith was the father of the Rev. Dr. S. S. Smith,
the seventh President of the College.   From Nottingham he
went to Fagg's Manor to see Mrs. Blair, the widow of the Rev.
Samuel Blair, his venerated teacher, under whose guidance he
was prepared for the office of the holy ministry, and of whom
he speaks in this connection as " the great Mr. Blair," and else-
where as "the incomparable Mr. Blair." On the i$th of Sep-
tember he reached Philadelphia, and was kindly received by
Mr. Tennent and his other friends there. Upon visiting his
dear and valuable friend Captain Grant of that city, he was

  * The errors on which the                                     " That God has
                             Presbytery animadvert are these      :




made over Christ and all his benefits to all that hear the gospel by a deed of
gift (as he affects to speak), so that every sinner that
                                                       hears the gospel offer ought
to put in a claim of right to him as his  Saviour in particular. That saving faith
consists in a persuasion that Christ is mine, and that he died for me in particular.
That redemption is universal as to purchase.   That civil government, both heathen
and Christian, is derived from Christ as mediator."
                  MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                         2 ^l


shown a letter received by that gentleman from Mr. De Berdt,
of London, in which was the following sentence               :




     " That the
             principles inculcated in the College of New Jersey are generally
looked upon as antiquated and unfashionable by the Dissenters in England." " A
dismal omen," adds Mr. Davies, "to our embassy, and,    I   fear, to the interests
of religion."


     He reached Newark on the following Thursday, " and was re-
ceived with    much affection by the worthy President," and was
honored with a visit and with free conversation with his Excel-
lency the Governor, and on the next day he waited on Gover-
nor Belcher, at Elizabethtown, in company with President Burr
and his lady. The Governor treated him with marked atten-
tion, and insisted upon his preaching for Mr. Spencer, pastor
of the church in that town, which he did on Sunday, the 3Oth
of September. On the preceding Sabbath he preached twice
in Newark      and he also heard President Burr preach a fare-
                  ;


well sermon to the candidates for a degree at the Commence-
ment to take place on Wednesday of that week. Mr. Burr's
            "
text was,     And now, my son, the Lord be with thee and pros-
per  thee."   "And   I was amazed," says Mr. Davies, "to see how

readily good    sense  and accurate language flowed from him ex-
tempore.      The  sermon   was affecting to me, and might have
been to the students."
   On Commencement-day Mr. Davies delivered a thesis (Per-
sonales Distinctiones in Trinitate sunt seternae), and vindicated
itagainst the opponents, and afterwards was honored with the
degree of Master of Arts.
  While in Newark, he spent a part of his time in drawing up
a petition from the Synod of New York to the General As-

sembly of the Church of Scotland. Upon leaving Newark, he
visited New York, and Elizabethtown, took leave of Governor
Belcher, lodged at the house of the Rev. John Brainerd, who
had succeeded          his brother,   David Brainerd, as a missionary
among the Indians, at or near Cranbury, and visited the Indian
town or settlement. He then proceeded to Philadelphia, to
attend the Synod, which convened in that city on Wednes-
day, the 3d of October.           On Friday evening he heard Mr.
Bostwick preach, and inserts           in   his journal this       remark re-
232         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
                     "
specting him    He has, I think, the best style extempore of
                 :


                       *
any man I ever heard."
   Mr. Davies preached several times in Philadelphia, and oc-
casionally in neighboring places, while waiting for the sailing
of the vessel in which he and his associate, the Rev. Gilbert
Tennent, were to take their passage. And during this period
he found time to attend a meeting of his Presbytery at Fagg's
Manor, and to visit his intimate friend the Rev. John Rodgers,
at St. George's, Delaware. The delay in the sailing of the
vessel was a severe trial to his patience, and the more so from
the circumstance that it was probable that it would add much
to the discomforts of the voyage, which                proved to be the case.
The pilot did not leave the ship until the afternoon of the iSth
of November, and it was not until the 25th of December that
the fellow-voyagers reached the city of London. The vessel

having ascended the Thames, they landed near London bridge,
and were conducted to the house of Mr. De Berdt, the gentle-
man named above as a correspondent of Captain Grant, of
Philadelphia, and of whom Mr. Davies says in his journal that
he "*is a most amiable, pious gentleman, and entertained us
very kindly till we could provide a lodging."
  Mr. Whitefield very promptly and kindly invited them to
make his house their home           ;
                                        but upon consultation with some
other friends they deemed it expedient to decline his generous
offer, and to take lodgings and board in a private boarding-
house  which they did. Not only by this eminent preacher
        ;


but by sundry other of the leading non-conformists were they
courteously received and entertained. Prominent among these,
were the Rev. Mr. Stennet, of the Baptist Church, to whose
kind offices they were indebted for much of their success in
London; the Rev. Mr. Gibbons, minister of the Independent
congregation at Haberdashers' Hall, and Mr. Davies's corre-
spondent, and who upon the death of Mr. Davies published
a volume of his sermons, with a sketch of the author's life.

  * Mr. Bostwick was at this time minister of the
                                                    Presbyterian church of Jamaica,
Long Island, and in 1755 he removed to the city of New York and took charge
of the Presbyterian church in that city. In 1761 he was chosen a Trustee of the

College of New Jersey, and held this office till his death.
               MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                               233

   Of these two distinguished preachers Mr. Davies makes fre-
quent mention, expressive of his high respect, and of his great
                                 "
indebtedness to them. In his Diary," under the date of Jan-
uary 8, 1754, a fortnight after his arrival in London, he makes
this entry:
  " Dined at Mr. Eleazer                    ... of the Baptist persuasion.   Here we
                         Edwards's,
enjoyed Mr. Stennet's company, and his son's. He is a judicious, prudent, and
candid gentleman, and has more influence in court than any dissenting minister in
London. Mr. Tennent having visited Mr. Partridge, the Agent of Pennsylvania,
was advised to apply to some of the court, particularly to the Lord Chancellor,
Lord Halifax, and Mr. Pelham [the Prime Minister], and he seemed inclined to
do it. But to me it appeared very doubtful I was afraid, in case the College should
                                             ;


be discountenanced by them, they would find some flaw in the charter, and so
overset it and that a refusal at court would have a bad influence upon those who
           ;


otherwise might contribute towards it. We- consulted Mr. Stennet, and he was

fully of   my mind."

   Mr. Stennet accompanied Messrs. Tennent and Davies to the
Duke of Argyle's when they went to deliver to his Grace the
letter for him given to them by Governor Belcher. The Duke
having advised them to call upon Lord Halifax, or Lord Duplin,
both of whom were members of the Board of Trade and Plan-
tations, Mr. Stennet went for them to Lord Duplin and con-
sulted him in confidence, and his Lordship assured Mr. Stennet
that he would do nothing to their injury.
  On the day after their arrival in London they were visited, says
Mr. Davies, "by a venerable old gentleman, Mr. Hall, author
of some of the Lime Street Sermons,' who seems to be of a
                       '




true puritanic spirit and full of religion;" by Mr. Gibbons, "my
dear correspondent, who informed us of the general apostasy of
the Dissenters from the principles of the Reformation;" and by
"good Mr. Cruttenden, who sent me over ten pound sterling
worth of books to be distributed among the poor in Virginia." *

  * This last-named
                       gentleman, Mr. Robert Cruttenden, the Rev. Richard Webster
thinks (see note to page 557 of his History) was probably the friend who suggested
to Mr. Davies, after his return from England, a plan for obtaining, if practicable,
some three or four young Africans, who still retained their native language, were
pious, and of good abilities, to be educated at the College of New Jersey for mis-
sionaries.  Whether Mr. Davies availed himself of this suggestion is not known.
But nearly twenty years after, the well-known Dr. Samuel Hopkins, a pupil of the
Rev. Jonathan Edwards, and his      first   biographer, adopted a like scheme, and in
    VOL. i.  16
234         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  In the prosecution of their work they called upon all or
nearly all the Dissenting ministers in London and its vicinity,
and     general they were kindly received and encouraged,
       in

although not a few of these ministers had no sympathy what-
ever with Messrs. Tennent and Davies in their religious views
and feelings, being tainted with anti-Calvinistic and latitudina-
rian principles.        The diversity of views among the Dissenters
was a source of no small embarrassment to these agents of
the College; and on this head Mr. Davies makes this remark:
   " There are so
                    many parties here that it is very perplexing to us to know how to
behave so as to avoid offence, and not to injure the business of our embassy.    The
Independents and Baptists are more generally Calvinists than the Presbyterians,
though I fear some of them are tainted with Antinomianism."

   By Mr. Chandler, a Presbyterian minister of much note, they
were advised to represent, in their petition for the College, that
it would be of use "to
                       keep a sense of religion among the Ger-
man Protestant emigrants settled in the British plantations, to
instruct their children in the principles of our common Chris-

tianity, and to instruct them in the knowledge of the
                                                    English
language, that they may be incorporated with the rest of his
                                       "
Majesty's subjects." Mr. Davies adds,    Mr. T. approved of
the addition, but I could not help scrupling it, because the Col-

lege is not immediately intended to teach the English language                      ;



but I submitted." They finally, however, determined to " soften
the terms in the clause about the                German Protestants."           On
the day following that of their call upon Mr. Chandler, viz., on

January 19, 1754, they "were sent for by a company of lords
and gentlemen who have the disposal of the money lately given
by the King for the support of schools among the Germans in
                        "
Pennsylvania."              Mr. Chandler," adds Mr. Davies, "who is the
Company's Secretary, introduced our affairs, and our petition

conjunction with the Rev. Dr. Ezra Stiles, afterwards President of Yale, formed
the design to prepare two African youths, members of his church in Newport,
Rhode Island, for preaching the gospel in Western Africa. That they might be
prepared for their missionary work, it was judged expedient to send them to Prince-
ton, New Jersey, to be for a season under the tuition of the Rev. Dr. Witherspoon.
How long they continued here, and what proficiency they made in their studies, are
matters respecting which we have no record. (See Dr. Alexander's " History of
Colonization," pages 48-523.)
            MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                  235

was read.    There was no time to consider it, and it was deferred
until their next meeting."    It   does not appear that the petition
was ever again brought before them for consideration; but Mr.
Chandler himself gave it his countenance and recommendation,
as did some sixty or more of the Dissenting ministers, includ-

ing Baptists, Independents, and Presbyterians. Among these
are some of the well-known scholars of that day,  e.g.. Rev.
Drs. Lardner, Jennings, Guyse, Benson, Price, and Milner.       The
Rev. Dr. Samuel Chandler, spoken of above as the Rev. Mr.
Chandler, was an eminent scholar, and he had the happiness to
number among his pupils Archbishop Seeker and Bishop But-
ler.  His sermons were published in four volumes quarto, and
as early as 1725 he published his ''Vindication of the Christian

Religion."
  There was danger at one time that Mr. Chandler would dis-
countenance the efforts of Messrs. Tennent and Davies, a copy
of Mr. Tennent's famous Nottingham Sermon having been
placed in his hand, with this very end in view, through the
agency of a member of the Synod of Philadelphia. But upon
receiving a full explanation of all the facts, Mr. Chandler signed
their petition.   Messrs. Tennent and Davies waited also upon
Mr. Penn, the Proprietor of Pennsylvania, and were kindly re-
ceived by him but he gave them no encouragement, regarding
                  ;



himself as under peculiar obligations to favor the Academy in
Philadelphia. From a Mr. Cromwell, a great-grandson of the
Protector, Mr. Davies received three guineas for the College.
Messrs. Tennent and Davies, while yet in London, dined with
the Marquis of Lothian, and at dinner met Lord Leven, the
King's Commissioner and representative at the sessions of the
General Assembly of the Kirk of Scotland.          These noblemen
favored their mission and encouraged them in their work.
  Mr. Davies was frequently invited to preach by the Dissenting
ministers of London, and he was repeatedly urged to prepare a
volume of his sermons for publication, which he tells us he had
serious thoughts of doing. An anecdote has been very current
in the United States to the purport that on one occasion his
Majesty George the Second heard Mr. Davies preach, and
that he was so delighted with the eloquence of the speaker as
236
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSE\.

to express aloud his approval, and to call down upon himself a

reproof for his interruption of the service and that by invita-
                                                      ;



tion Mr. Davies waited upon the King and received from him
a handsome donation for the College. There is not the least
foundation for this story. His " Diary" shows beyond all
doubt that Mr. Davies never saw his Majesty, and that he had
no desire to see him or the members of his court, lest inquiry
should be made respecting the validity of the charter given
to the College by Governor Belcher, and the character of the
charter essentially altered, if not totally suppressed.

   Upon leaving London,            Messrs. Tennent and Davies went
directly to Edinburgh, where they met with a very kind recep-
tion from all classes, clergy and laity, nobles and commoners.
   In their application to the General Assembly of the Church
of Scotland they were successful beyond all expectation. On
Monday, the 27th of May, their petition was received by the
Assembly, and it was agreed to without an objection from
any one. Their cause was ably advocated by Mr. Lumsden,
Professor of Theology at Aberdeen, who, without any confer-
ence with either Mr. Tennent or Mr. Davies, urged that it was
the duty of the Assembly to promote such institutions as the
College of New Jersey, and especially among the Presbyte-
rians in the Colonies.  Mr. Lumsden was seconded by Mr.
McLagan,   and a committee was appointed to draw up an act
and a recommendation for a national collection. Of this com-
mittee Mr. McLagan was a member.

  " The                                                                   "
          approbation of the General Assembly," says Mr. Davies, in his       Diary,"
May 27, 1754, "will be attended with many happy consequences; particularly it
will recommend our College to the world, and wipe off the odium from the Synod
of New York as a parcel of schismatics."


  The action of the Assembly was the more pleasing to Messrs.
Tennent and Davies, from the circumstance that special pains
had been taken by one or more of the members of the Synod
of Philadelphia to excite a prejudice against their mission by
means of a letter written for this very purpose, and by the dis-
tribution of copies of Mr. Tennent's Nottingham Sermon.
                                                     Mr.
Tennent and Mr. Davies waited also upon the Society for
Propagating Christian Knowledge, of which the Marquis of
                 MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                                237

Lothian was the President, and                at the request of the Society

gave them their advice as to the best method of conducting
the mission among the Indians.   The members of the Society
also drew up a letter in favor of the College of New Jersey,
to be annexed to the Act of the General Assembly.    On the
same day Messrs. Tennent and Davies dined with his Grace the
Lord Commissioner.
   From Mr. Davies's journal, it appears that he preached in
several of the principal churches of Edinburgh, and to very
crowded auditories, having among his hearers on one occasion
the Lord Provost and the Magistrates of the city. He preached
three times in the College Kirk, and evidently with much ac-

ceptance, and to the profit of not a few of his hearers. He had
every reason to be pleased with his reception                       in   Edinburgh,
and we are not surprised at his remark,
   " I met with more Christian
                                  friendship in Edinburgh than anywhere in Great
Britain.    There is too general a decay of experimental and practical religion, and
yet there   is   a considerable number of pious people in the City."     (Davies's Jour-
nal, June 15, 1754.)


   Under the same date with the above he adds                   :




   " I find a
            great number of the clergy and laity have of late carried church power
to an extravagant height, deny to individuals the right of judging for themselves,
and insist upon absolute universal obedience to all the determinations of the Gen-
eral Assembly.   I heard several speeches in the House on this head which really

surprised me.       The nobility and gentry, who are lay elders, are generally high-
flyers,and have encroached upon the rights of the people, especially in the choice
of their ministers. Violent settlements are enjoined by the authority of the Gen-
eral Assembly, and there is no prospect of redress.      There is a Piece published,
under the title of The Ecclesiastical Characteristics,' ascribed to one Mr. Weather-
                     '




spoon [Witherspoon], a young minister. It is a burlesque upon the high-flyers,
under the name of moderate men, and I think the humor is nothing inferior to
Dean Swift."

    It    never occurred to Mr. Davies while penning the above
                       "
sentence that this       one Mr. Weatherspoon" would ever have
any connection with the College of New Jersey, much less that
they would both be Presidents of it    and yet within fifteen
                                                     ;




years from this time they both were,                 Mr. Davies from 1759 to
1761, and Mr. Witherspoon from 1768 to 1794.
  After spending a month or more at Edinburgh, Mr. Tennent
238
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

left for   Ireland, to present the cause of the College to the Irish
Presbyterian Synod, and Mr. Davies went on a visit to Glas-
gow, where he was kindly received and hospitably entertained.
The freedom of the city was presented to him, and at the same
time it was conferred upon Mr. Tennent and Mr. President Burr,
although they were not there. Mr. Davies tarried at Glasgow
about ten days, and preached there six times. He formed firm
friendships with some of the leading ministers of that city, and
more especially with Mr. Gillies, afterwards the Rev. Dr. Gillies,
  by whom some of his letters to his English and Scotch cor-
respondents were preserved and published. Upon the decease
of the Rev. Mr. McLaurin, another of his Glasgow friends, he
made in his " Diary" the following entry " That city has lost
                                              :




one of its brightest ornaments, the Church of Scotland one of
its most excellent ministers, and the College of New Jersey one

of its best friends." The attentions which were paid to him in
Glasgow were owing, no doubt, in part to the circumstance that
Governor Dinwiddie, of Virginia, without Mr. Davies's knowl-
edge, had kindly commended him to his brother, the Provost of
the city, and to his brother-in-law, the Rev. Mr. McCulloh, at
                                 "
Cambuslang. This gentleman, an humble, holy minister of
Christ," as Mr. Davies calls him, had a conversation with Mr.
Davies about a donation of two hundred pounds for propa-
gating the gospel among the Indians.
  Mr. Davies also visited the Rev. John Erskine, of Culross,
afterwards the Rev. Dr. Erskine, of Grey Friars' Church, Edin-
burgh.   This distinguished divine took a lively interest in the
welfare of the College, and revised and prepared for the press a
sermon of Mr. Davies's on I John ii. 2, and published it, with a
                                                               "
                                                            has
preface in favor of the College, which, says Mr. Davies,
already had happy effects in Braintree, and excited sundry to
double their intended benefactions." At the place named resided
Mr. Samuel Ruggles, a gentleman of wealth and of great liber-
ality, who first subscribed thirty pounds
                                          to the fund for the Col-

lege, and who subsequently   increased his subscription and made
it fifty   pounds.
     Upon his way from Edinburgh to London, Mr. Davies stopped
at   Durham, and waited upon his Lordship the Bishop of that
             MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                               239

diocese.  This right reverend prelate, the immediate succes-
sor of the eminent scholar Bishop Butler, "gave me," says
            "
Mr. Davies,   a condescending reception.   He particularly in-
quired whether the Church of England had any share in the
management of the College, complained of the intolerant prin-
ciples of the Dissenters in New England, asked me if I had
waited upon the Archbishop of Canterbury, or obtained the
consent of the Society for Propagating the Gospel in Foreign
Parts, and told me until I had done so he could not in a public
character do anything in favor of the design.                 But he gave me
five guineas as a private person; which afforded me no small
satisfaction, as it may open the door for further benefactions in
the Established Church."            But it did not.
      Mr. Davies also visited Norwich and several of the other
larger towns and cities in England. He reached London on the
1st of October, and found there a letter from Mr. Tennent, in-

forming him that Mr. Tennent, having finished his applications
in the west of England, intended to come to London as soon as

possible, to prepare to embark for America.
  "The prospect of so speedy a return gave me," says Mr. Davies, "no small
pleasure ; but the prospect of a winter passage was very shocking, especially as I
had such a melancholy time in my last voyage, and in the present diffident state of
my mind I am not a little intimidated at the dangers of the ocean."
   Nor is his state of mind at all surprising, in view of the perils
then attending a voyage across the Atlantic in midwinter.
Among the reasons urged by the friends of Episcopacy in
America for the consecration of one or more Bishops in this
country was the loss of life on the part of the candidates who
went to England to be admitted to orders by the Bishop of
London.     The Rev. Dr. Thomas Bradbury Chandler, in his
Appeal, asserts that one-fifth of all who had gone to England
for ordination, up to 1767, had died of disease or had been lost
at sea.
   Mr. Tennent left London on the I3th of November, in a ves-
sel going directly to Philadelphia. Mr. Davies sailed on Fri-
day, the 1 5th of the same month.   The reasons for not return-
ing home in the same vessel are briefly given by Mr. Davies in
                                                "
his "Diary," under the date of November 18:       The impossi-
240       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

bility of getting the      Trustees together, and of my travelling
home by land from Philadelphia, determined me, with Mr. Ten-
nent's consent, to deny myself the pleasure of his company and
sail directly for Virginia, that I   may the sooner see my earthly
all at home."     After a long and tempestuous voyage, he arrived
at York, Virginia, on the I3th of February, 1755, and reached
                                                   "
his own home on Saturday, the I5th of that month, and found
all well. What shall I render to the Lord for all his good-
ness ?"
   The above recital gives a succinct view of Mr. Davies's labors
and of his success in fulfilling the duties of his mission in be-
half of the College; but it gives no intimation of his anxieties
and trials occasioned by his long and painful separation from
his family, to which he often refers in expressions of earnest

feeling.  Nor has any mention been made of the sudden and
threatening attacks, superinduced, doubtless, by his untiring
and arduous labors, one of which, an apoplectic fit, as it was re-
garded by the physician in attendance, came very near termi-
nating his    life,   during his visit to the city of Norwich, in the
month of September, 1754.
  The sums of money collected by Messrs. Tennent and Davies,
although far exceeding the most sanguine expectations of them-
selves and of the Trustees, are by no means the full measure of
their services to the College and to the interests of religion and

learning in the American Colonies. Their mission added much
to the reputation and the usefulness of the College, and turned
the attention of not a few persons of influence and of wealth to
the great importance of promoting Christian education among
all classes   in this country.     Their preaching, and more espe-
cially thepreaching of Mr. Davies, attracted much attention,
and doubtless was productive of much good. In the course of
the eleven months which Mr. Davies spent in England and
Scotland he preached sixty or seventy times, and he was earn-
estly solicited, in conversation     and by letters, to publish some
of these discourses.
  While he diligently and successfully prosecuted the work of
collecting funds for the College, he at the same time availed
himself of every opportunity to further the interests of his Dis-
           MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                    24!

senting friends in Virginia, and to secure for them all the privi-
leges conferred by the Act of Toleration upon Dissenters in
England.   The hope that he might accomplish something in
this line was astrong inducement with him to accede to the
proposal of the Trustees that he should accompany Mr. Ten-
nent to Britain. And the last thing which he did before leaving
London was to call upon Dr. Avery, Mr. Mauduit, Dr. Stennet,
and others with the petition sent to him from Virginia, in refer-
ence to the rights of the Dissenters there under the English
Act of Toleration, and to solicit their aid in this matter which
he had so much at heart. At his earnest request these gentle-
men promised their assistance; nor were they unmindful of their
engagement. They conferred with the committee of the depu-
tation of Protestant Dissenters in regard to the expediency of

presenting the petition to the King in Council, and it was
deemed imprudent to present it at that time.      The committee
gave it as their advice that the Dissenters in Virginia should
apply first to the County Court and if refused, then to the Gov-
                                 ;



ernor and Council and if refused by them, to use the house for
                     ;



which a license had been sought, as if it had been licensed and
                                                             ;



if prosecuted   for so doing, to let the committee know.   At the
same time the committee sent them private instructions, in case
any persons should be prosecuted for using such unlicensed
houses, that they should appeal to the King in Council, and the
committee engaged to prosecute the appeal.        But no appeal
was ever made. By the time Mr. Davies returned home, the
state of public affairs in Virginia was so much changed, in con-

sequence of the incursions of the French and of the Indians
upon the western frontiers, that the Colonial Government, which
depended in no small degree upon the aid of the Dissenters to
repel these hostile aggressions, had less time and probably less
inclination to molest these loyal men, who were ready to lay
down their lives, if need be, in defence of their country. Mr.
Davies was among the foremost in urging upon his friends the
duty of taking up arms in defence of their King and of their
homes which, under the influence of his powerful appeals, they
       ;



promptly did, and in large numbers.
  In a note to a sermon preached on the i/th of August, 1755,
242     HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

to the first volunteer company raised in Virginia after Braddock's

defeat, occur these words  :


   "
     I may point out to the      public that heroic youth, Col.
Washington, whom I cannot but hope Providence has hitherto
preserved in so signal a manner for some important service."
Washington was then in the twenty-fourth year of his age.
By his prudence and courage he had rescued from destruction
the remnant of Braddock's army.
    About this time, too, the Established clergy became involved
in a controversy with the Legislature with respect to the pay-
ment of their stipends of sixteen thousand pounds of tobacco*
"
  whether they should be paid in kind or at an estimated value."
"
  While this contest waxed hotter and hotter, Dissenters of dif-
                               "
ferent names," says Dr. Foote, multiplied, and the rigor of the
courts relaxed. This unadvised proceeding of the clergy did
more for the Dissenters than all their appeals to natural and
constitutional law had been able to accomplish."   The Revolu-
tion of 1776 put an end to all the restraints to which the Dis-
senters had been subjected by the laws of Virginia, and gave
them that perfect freedom in all matters of religion for which
Mr. Davies so long and so earnestly contended. But amidst
all his labors in defence of civil and religious liberty, he never

forgot that his chief business was to preach the gospel and   ;



this he continued to do most diligently to all    classes, rich   and
poor, white and black.
   In December, 1755, the Presbytery of Hanover was formed,
and of this Presbytery Mr. Davies was the first Moderator. It
comprised all the Presbyterian ministers in Virginia and North
                                               "
Carolina, with their respective charges.         Of the whole Dis-
senting  interests in these two colonies,  Mr.  Davies," says Presi-
              "
dent Green, was the animating soul. He made his influence
felt everywhere  ;
                    he transfused his spirit into the bosoms of his
associates, and   roused them by the force of his example. His
popularity  in  Virginia was  almost unbounded so that he was
                                                  ;



invited and urged to preach in almost all the settled portions
of that colony."
  Three years and a half after his return from England, Mr.
Davies was chosen President of the College of New Jersey.
             MEMOIR OF THE REV, SAMUEL DA VIES.                                          243

By the advice of his Presbytery he declined this invitation                      ;
                                                                                         but
subsequently, with the approval of the Synod, he accepted the
office upon a tender of it a second           time   ;
                                                         and he entered upon
its    duties on the 26th of July, 1759.
      In the sketch given of his administration, it was            shown that
his career,    though     short, was brilliant,          and that the highest
hopes were entertained by the friends of the College that his
direction of its affairs would be attended with the happiest
results.  But these hopes were doomed to a sudden and unex-
pected disappointment; and it is by no means improbable that
his constant and earnest devotion to his official duties served to
undermine his strength, and caused him to succumb the more
readily to the fever of which he died.
  "Towards the close of January, 1761," says President Green, "he was seized
with a bad cold, for which he was bled. The same day he transcribed for the
press his sermon on the death of George the Second.* The day following he
preached twice in the College Chapel.    The arm in which he had been bled
surely for a reason sufficiently obvious became much inflamed, and his febrile
disposition was much increased.    On the morning of the succeeding Monday he
was seized, while at breakfast, with violent chills, succeeded by an inflammatory
                                                 " The violence of his disease de-
fever, which in ten days terminated his life."

prived him of the exercise of his reason through most of his sickness,   .   . and   .



even in his delirium he manifested what were the objects which chiefly occupied
his mind.   His faltering tongue was continually uttering some expedient to pro-
mote the prosperity of the Church of Christ and the good of mankind."

      He died on the 4th of February, 1761, in the thirty-eighth
year of his age.
   A sermon on the occasion of his death was preached in Lon-
don on the 29th of March, by his friend and correspondent, the
Rev. Dr. Thomas Gibbons       and another at Princeton on the
                                   ;

                                                          "
28th of May, by the Rev. Dr. Samuel Finley. (Sprague's An-
nals.")  The  one  by Dr. Finley was  printed at the request of
the Trustees and it was republished in London by Dr. Gib-
                 ;



bons, in connection with his own sermon.       Both these dis-
courses were prefixed to the first volume of Mr. Davies's
sermons, edited by Dr. Gibbons. The Rev. David Bostwick,
of New York, another intimate friend, who had been intrusted
with the printing of President Davies's sermon on the death of

  * This sermon was
                      preached by Mr. Davies in the College Chapel, January 14.
244          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
                                                      "
George the Second, wrote a preface to this sermon, in which
the talents, piety, and usefulness of Mr. Davies were exhibited,
and eulogized with much warmth." (President Green's Sketches.)
These were the first tributes of respect to the memory of this
remarkable man and most eloquent preacher; but they are not
the only ones.    Memoirs of President Davies have been given
to the public  by the Rev. Dr. John Rice, of Virginia, in his
"
  Literary and Evangelical Magazine;" by the Rev. Dr. Green,
                                                    "
in his Sketch of the College Rev. Dr. Allen, in his
                                         ;            Biograph-
ical Dictionary;"           Rev. Dr. Foote, in his "Sketches of Virginia;"
Rev. Dr. Sprague, in his "Annals of the American Pulpit;"
and Rev. Albert Barnes, in a preface to the third New York
edition of Davies's sermons.   Mention of him and of his
                                                 "
writings is made in Middleton's    Biographia Evangelica," in
           "
Allibone's Dictionary  of Authors," and in other publications.
   Distinguished as he  was  in various respects, he was pre-

eminent         in the pulpit, of which fact         the great     demand for his
published sermons is sufficient evidence were there none other.
Before the close of the last century not less than nine editions
were printed           in   England.         (See Dr. Green's Sketches of the
College.)          And the publishers of the first stereotyped edition
in       this   country tell us that in 1842, "notwithstanding four
large       American     editions have been published, the book is

entirely out of the market."                Fifty years ago        viz., in   1822
                                 "
Dr. Green remarked,                           sermons in the
                                     Probably there are no
English language    which have been more  read, or for which
there has been so steady and unceasing a demand for more
than half a century." And to this remark he justly and wisely
adds the following criticism                 :




     "
         They are certainly not distinguished for minute accuracy of language, or those
terse periods which many later compositions of the       same kind possess. Nor can
they, in all their parts, be vindicated from the charge of something that appears
loose, tumid, and declamatory.      The general run of the sentences, however, is
harmonious; and they everywhere contain so much just thinking, such powerful
reasonings, such pungent addresses to the conscience and the heart, with such an
unction of piety, and such a popularity of manner, as may well account for the
favorable reception they have met with.  The reader soon ceases to attend to any-
thing but the subject discussed, and is carried delightfully along by the powerful
charm of genius and piety in happy union."
                   MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DA VIES.                                  245

   The following is a list of President Davies's published works
                                                        "
as given           by Dr. Sprague            in   his       Annals of the American
Pulpit"   :




  "A sermon on Man's Primitive State, 1748.                 'The State of Religion among the
Protestant Dissenters in Virginia, in a Letter to the Rev. Joseph Bellamy,' 1751.         A
sermon preached before the Presbytery of New Castle, 1752. A sermon preached
at the installation of the Rev. John Todd, 1752.  'Religion and Patriotism, the
Constituents of a      Good Soldier    :'   a sermon preached before a company of volun-
teers, 1755. 'Virginia's Danger and Remedy:' two discourses occasioned by the
severe drought, and the defeat of General Braddock, 1755. Letters showing the
State of Religion in Virginia, particularly among the Negroes,           17551757. A ser-
mon on the Vessels of Mercy and the Vessels of Wrath, 1757.              A Sermon on Little
Children invited to Jesus Christ, 1757. 'The Curse of Cowardice :' a sermon before
the militia of Virginia, 1758.       A
                                   Valedictory Discourse to the Senior Class in the
College of New Jersey, 1760. A sermon on the Death of George II., 1761.        He
was also the author of several important documents of a public nature, and various
hymns and other pieces of poetry of no small degree of merit.
  " A collection of his
                             sermons, including most of those which had been printed in
his lifetime, was published after his death, in three volumes octavo."
  To the above list may be added a sermon on John ii. 2, revised and edited by
the Rev. Dr. Erskine, of Scotland, from the manuscript notes of Mr. Davies, fur-
nished by himself, 1754; his "Diary" or journal of his mission to England, from
                                                          " Sketches of
July 2, 1753, to February 13, 1755, given in Dr. Foote's                Virginia;"
also sundry letters, including those to Dr. Doddridge, the Bishop of London, and
Dr. Avery, respecting the condition of the Dissenters in Virginia. The sermon
before the Presbytery of New Castle, 1752, was on Isaiah Ixii. I ; and when he was
in England he was urged by friendly ministers and others in various parts of Great
Britain to give this     sermon a second edition, which in his " Diary," September
28, 1754, he expresses his purpose to do.

               "
   In his Notes," published in 1822, President Green makes the
following mention of the family of President Davies                            :



  " Of the
               family left   by President Davies the writer
                                                       able to give but little in-
                                                                 is

formation. The funeral sermon preached by Dr. Finley is dedicated to Mrs.
Martha Davies, the mother, and Mrs. Jean Davies, the widow, of the late President
Davies.   Of his widow, it is only known that she returned to her friends in Vir-
ginia, and remained there till her death.
                                        Her eldest son, Colonel William Davies,
was educated at Nassau Hall, and graduated in 1765.           He studied law, and set-
tled at Norfolk, in Virginia.        In the Revolutionary War he obtained the rank of a
Colonel in the American Army, was an officer of distinguished merit, and possessed
in an eminent degree the         esteem and confidence of the commander-in-chief, the
illustrious Washington.         He was well known to the writer [Dr. Green], and was
unquestionably a man of powerful mind, highly cultivated, and enriched by various
knowledge.   He died in Virginia a few years since. John Rodgers Davies was
also educated at Nassau Hall, and graduated in 1769.      He likewise studied the
law.   Samuel Davies, the third son, was settled in Petersburg, and died there sev-
246        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

eral years ago.*  His mother, Mrs. Martha Davies, made a part of the President's
family at the time of his death.  The writer [President Green] has been well in-
formed that when the corpse of her son was laid in the coffin, she stood over it, in
the presence of a number of friends, for some minutes, viewing it attentively, and
then said, There is the son of my prayers and my hopes, my only son, my only
             '




earthly support.  But there is the will of God, and I am satisfied.' This eminent
saint was received into the family of the Rev. Dr. Rodgers, of New York, and by
him was treated with the utmost kindness and veneration till the time of her death."

  President Davies was buried by the side of President Edwards,
and over his remains the following inscription was placed                           :




                                  Sub Hoc Marmore sepulchrali,
                                          Mortales Exuviae
                                     Reverendi perquam Viri,
                                      Samuelis Davies, A.M.
                               Collegii Nov-Csesariensis Prsesidis,
                             Futurum Domini Adventum prsestolantur.
                                 Ne te, Viator, ut pauca de tanto
                                 Tamque dilecto Viro resciscas,
                                      Paulisper morari pigeat.
                    Natus est in Comitatu de Newcastle, juxta Delaware,
                              III Novembris, Anno Salutis reparatse,
                                       MDCCXXIV. S. V.
                                                XIX Februarii,
                              Sacris ibidem initiatus,
                                          MDCCXLVIL
                                   Tutelam pastoralem Ecclesiae
                      In Comitatu de Hanover, Virginiensium, suscepit,
                                   Ibi per XI plus minus Annos,
                                  Ministri Evangelici Laboribus

                     Indefesse, et favente Numine, auspicate perfunctus.
                  Ad Munus Praesidiale Collegii Nov-Csesariensis gerendum
                             Vocatus est, et inauguratus, XXVI Julii,
                                        MDCCLIX S. N.
              Sed, proh Rerum inane intra Biennium, Febre correptus,
                                             !




             Candidam Animam Ccelo reddidit, IV Februarii, MDCCLXI.
                              Heu quam exiguum Vitee Curriculum       !




                    Corpore fuit eximio; Gestu liberali, placido, augusto
                                           Ingenii Nitore,
                        Morum Integritate, Munificentia, Facilitate,
                                        Inter paucos illustris,


     * In a letter from the Rev. David Bostwick to the Rev. Dr. Bellamy, of the date
of   March       17, 1761,   Mr. Bostwick observes:      "The people of Philadelphia have
collected    ^95 per annum for five years to support his three sons at College, and
Philadelphia and        New York have raised between four and five hundred pounds
for the widow and two daughters, for he left very little estate."         J.   M.
                MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL DAVJES.                                                    247
                 Rei literarise peritus; Theologus promptus, perspicax,
                     In Rostris, per Eloquium blandum, mellitum
                   Vehemens simul, et perstringens, nulli secundus,
                            Scriptor ornatus, sublimis, disertus.
                                  Praesertim vero Pietate,
                   Ardente in Deum Zelo et Religione Spectandus,
                               In tanti Viri, majora meriti,
                                  Memoriam duraturam,
                          Amici hoc qualecunque Monumentum,
                           Honoris ergo et Gratitudinis, posuere.
                                 Abi, Viator, ei cemulare.

    The following extracts will conclude this memoir                             :




    " Mr. Davies's death has struck us with
                                                astonishment, and spread a gloom over
the whole country.        The loss cannot be expressed.         I   believe there never was a

College happier in its President, or in a more flourishing state. He far exceeded
the expectation of his best friends.   As you were not personally acquainted, you
can hardly conceive what prodigious uncommon             gifts the    God of heaven had be-
stowed upon that man to render him useful to the world,                  but he       is gone   O !




what he might have been, what he might have done, had he lived               !       But methinks
I hear the admonition, Be still, and know that I am God"
   " His sermon on the death of his late
                                           Majesty I purpose to send you with this;
the first impression, tho' 1000, is gone ; a second is in the press. It was the last

work of a public nature he ever did."          Rev. Mr. Bosltuick's letter of March 17,
1761, to the Rev. Joseph Bellamy.
    " As to his natural
                          genius, it was strong and masculine.         His understanding was
clear, his   memory retentive, his invention quick, his imagination lively and florid,
his thoughts sublime, and his language elegant, strong, and expressive."                 .   .   .


    " His
        appearance in company was manly and graceful ; his behavior genteel, not
ceremonious ; grave, yet pleasant, and solid but sprightly too. In a word, he was
an open, conversable, and entertaining companion, a polite gentleman, and a devout
Christian."
  " In the sacred
                  desk, zeal for God and love to men animated his addresses, and
made them tender, solemn, pungent, and persuasive while at the same time they
                                                            ;

were ingenious, accurate, and oratorical.      A certain dignity of sentiment and style,
a venerable presence, a commanding voice, and emphatical delivery concurred both
to charm his audience and overawe them into silence and attention."
    " Nor was his usefulness confined to the              His comprehensive mind could
                                               pulpit.
take under view the grand interests of his country and of religion at once; and
these interests as well as those of his friends he was ever ready zealously to serve."
  " His natural
                 temper was remarkably sweet and dispassionate, and his heart was
one of the tenderest towards the distressed."
  " He was
             among the first and highest examples of filial piety."
  " In a
         word, think what might rationally be expected in the present imperfect
state, in a mature man, a Christian in minority, a minister of Jesus, of like passions
with others, in a gentleman, companion, and cordial friend, and you conceive of
President Davies."
248
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  "I never knew one who appeared to lay himself more fully open to the recep-
tion of truth, from whatever quarter it came, than he."
  " The unavoidable consciousness of native
                                            power made him bold and enter-
prising.   Yet the event proved that his boldness arose, not from a partial, ground-
less self-conceit, but from true self-knowledge.Upon a fair and candid trial, faithful
and just to himself, he judged what he could do and what he could, when called
                                                   ;



to it, he attempted ;and what he attempted he accomplished." (From Dr. Finley's
Sermon on the Death of President Davies.)


  The above is the testimony of men who knew him well, and
who were able to form a correct judgment of such a man as
Samuel Davies.
                          CHAPTER XII.
THE ELECTION AND THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL
   FINLEY, THE FIFTH PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW
      JERSEY.

  AT the time Mr. Davies was first chosen President, some of
the Trustees were in favor of electing Mr. Finley, and on the
death of Mr. Davies no other person appears to have been
thought of to supply his place. Before the meeting of the
Trustees, which had been appointed for the 28th of May, there
was, doubtless, more or less correspondence among the mem-
bers of the Board in regard to this important measure, and an
understanding that Mr. Finley would be their choice. Mr.
Bostwick, a devoted friend of President Davies, in his letter to
Mr. Bellamy, of the I7th of March, 1761, speaking of the death
                           "
of Mr. Davies, adds,    Our eyes are on Mr. Finley, a very accu-
rate scholar,  and a very great and good man.        Blessed be
the Lord that such an one is to be found.    The internal state
of the College is good, and the management of the Tutors so
generally approved, that there will be no pro tempore Presi-
dent, and the time appointed for choice is the 28th of May."
At this date, however, as appears from the minutes of the Board,
                                "
a quorum did not assemble.        Express messengers were de-
spatched to several of the absent members, and on Monday,
June     I,                                      members ap-
                1761, being called over, the following
peared,       Messrs. William Smith, Samuel Woodruff, John
              viz.   :




Pierson, Gilbert Tennent, William Tennent, Caleb Smith, Jacob
Green, John Brainerd, Samuel Finley, Elihu Spencer, Charles
McKnight, John Light, Richard Stockton."
  The following proceedings of the Board at this meeting are
copied from their minutes:
  " The Rev. Mr. David Bostwick, of the city of New York, the Rev. Mr. Israel
Reed, of Bound Brook, Dr. John Redman, of Philadelphia, and Doctor Robert
      VOL. I.    17                                                249
250         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

Harris, of New Brunswick, were duly elected Trustees of the College in the room
of the Rev. Messrs. Davies and Cowell, deceased, and of Mr. Cummings removed
to Boston, and Mr. Livingston resigned.      Mr. Bostwick was qualified as the Char-
ter directs, and took his seat accordingly."
  " It
       having pleased a Sovereign God since our last meeting to remove by death
the late reverend and ingenious Mr. Davies, President of the College, the Trustees

proceeded to the election of a President, whereupon the Rev. Mr. Samuel Finley,
of Nottingham, in the Province of Pennsylvania, was unanimously chosen Presi-
dent of the College in the room of the said Mr. Davies. And the said Mr. Finley,
being informed of the above election, was pleased modestly to accept the same.
Whereupon Mr. Treat, one of the members of the Board, is desired to attend the
meeting of the Presbytery to which Mr. Finley belongs, to request that he may be
liberated from his present pastoral charge."
  " It is
            ordered, thatMr. Finley's salary as President of the College be the sum of
  200, proclamation, per    annum, with the usual privileges and perquisites. And
that the expense of     moving Mr. Finley's family to this place be paid by       the
Treasurer."

  There is evidently an inaccuracy in the minute respecting
the election of two of the new Trustees, in which they are said
to   have been duly elected            in the   room of Messrs. Davies and
Cowell, deceased. Mr. Davies was a Trustee only in virtue of his
being the President of the College and the only person who
                                                 ;



could succeed him as a Trustee would be his successor in the
office of President. Mr. Finley, by accepting this office, thereby

vacated his seat at the Board as a regular and permanent mem-
ber, whichmade one of the two vacancies among the clerical
members of the Board that were filled by the election of the
Rev. Messrs. Bostwick and Reed.
  The next meeting of the Board took place on Wednesday,
the 3<Dth of September, 1761, the day of the annual Commence-
ment.   His Excellency Governor Boone was present on this
occasion, and so were all the Trustees but three, making the
number in attendance twenty.
  Although Mr. Finley upon being chosen President of the
College had signified his willingness to accept the office, he
could not formally do so until he had obtained the consent
of the Presbytery of which he was a member and therefore         ;


his inauguration as President was deferred until this meeting of
the Trustees.          Having taken the prescribed oaths, he appears
to have taken his seat at the Board without any other formality
or ceremony.
          ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY.                               251

  The Trustees next attended the Commencement exercises,
when fourteen young gentlemen were admitted to the first de-
gree in the Arts, and three others to their second degree.                          It

appears from a minute adopted at this meeting that one of the
students was in considerable arrears for his tuition, and the
Board directed that, " in case these arrears were not fully dis-
charged before the end of the ensuing vacation, he should be
dismissed from the College."    Nothing is said of his ability to
pay the tuition-fees the only thing mentioned is that he was
                            ;



in arrears for his tuition. At this time no provision had been
made for the payment of the tuition-fees of young men in in-
digent or moderate circumstances, except to a small extent in
the case of those preparing for the ministry. Of late years,
happily,any worthy youth unable to pay his tuition-fees has
had them remitted upon an application to the President or other
officer of the College having the oversight of this matter.
   The decision reached in the case just mentioned led to a fur-
ther consideration of the whole subject of College dues, and
to the adoption of the following minute                 :




  " The Trustees
                    taking into consideration the damages the Institution has sustained
by the Deficiency in the Payment of the Students' Quarterly Bills,* IT is ORDERED,
That for the future every Student who enters College be obliged to give sufficient
security by Bond or otherwise to the Treasurer for the punctual payment of all his
Dues to the College, which Law [is] to take place at the expiration of the present
year, in case no objection appears to this measure at the next meeting of the Trus-
tees."


   The rule now in force on this subject, and which was adopted
many years ago, is, that all charges for College expenses shall
be paid in advance at the beginning of each ttrm.
   The settlement of the Steward's accounts was generally one
of the items of business which  demanded the attention of the
Board      ;
               and it is evident from the various resolutions on this
subject that there was no little difficulty in adjusting these
accounts to the satisfaction of the parties concerned.

  * The bills,    for the entire year, at this period in the history of the College,
amounted to about ,25.6.0 proc.       These included charges for tuition, ^4; board,
,15   ;   washing, ^3; fire-wood and candles,    2; room-rent, ^l    ;
                                                                      and contingent
charges, 6 shillings.
252
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  Happily for the College, this whole system of providing
meals for the students has been given up yet payments for ;



board continue to be made to the Treasurer of the College,
for the better security of the boarders and of the boarding-
houses.    The change here referred to took place in 1855.
     The examination of candidates for degrees was ordered to
be held in future on the third Wednesday in August. Previ-
ously to this the examination took place on the last Wednesday
in July.   No change was made in the time of the annual Com-
mencement.
   For his extra services while the College was without a Presi-
dent, the Trustees made Mr. Halsey, the senior Tutor, a present
of twenty pounds in addition to his salary.
  The following extracts will explain themselves, while they
show the action of the Board in reference to matters of more
or less interest in the history of the College                :



  "
     Voted, That the Treasurer of the College pay President Finley the sum of
^22.11, it being the expense of his removal to the College."
   "
     Voted, That President Finley's salary begin from the third Wednesday in June
last, it being the time of his dismission from his people at Nottingham."
   "
     Ordered, That Mr. Stockton, the Clerk, be desired to return the thanks of this
Board to the Gentlemen in Philadelphia who have generously undertaken the man-
agement of the Lottery now on foot in favor of the College."
  "
    Ordered, That all moneys arising from the Lottery made in Philadelphia, for
the Benefit of the College, be deposited in the hands of Mr. Sergeant, the Treasurer,
as soon as possible, and that the said moneys be by him immediately put out to
Interest as soon as opportunities present."
  "
      Voted, That President Finley be desired to print his Sermon preached at the
funeral of Mr. Davies, at the Expense of the College, and that they be disposed of
for the Benefit of the College."


  A few extracts from this sermon are given at the close of our
memoir of President Davies. This sermon was not preached
at    Mr. Davies's funeral, but at or near the beginning of the
summer term of the College, Thursday, May 28, 1761.                            The
Trustees were to have had a meeting on the previous Thursday,
May 21, for the purpose of choosing a President -in the room
of Mr. Davies.           quorum not assembling on that day,
                        But, a
they could not proceed  with this business, and they only took
measures to secure the attendance of a sufficient number on the
ist of June.
           ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 253

     The next meeting of the Board was held on Wednesday, the
29th of September, 1762, the day of the annual Commence-
ment.  His Excellency Governor Hardy was present, and took
his seat as President of the Board. The following address to
the Governor, and his reply, are copied from the New York
"
  Mercury" of October 18, 1762, there being no note of them
in the minutes of the Board                    :



" To his
             Excellency Josiah Hardy, Esq., Captain-General, Commander-in-Chief
     in and over his Majesty's Province of Nova Caesarea, or New Jersey, and territories
     thereon depending in America, Chancellor, and Vice- Admiral in the same.
     "
         May it please your Excellency    We, his Majesty's most dutiful and loyal sub-
                                           :




jects, the Trustees of the      College of New Jersey, with the greatest pleasure take
this opportunity of publickly congratulating your Excellency upon your appointment

to and acceptance of this Government. And we are particularly happy in believing,
from the specimen your Excellency has already given of your good Disposition,
that the loss we sustained in the speedy removal of your             immediate Predecessor
is   made up in you and that as the College of this Province has been favoured with
                      ;


the patronage of each of our Governors since its Institution, your Excellency will
be pleased to take it under your Protection.             We
                                                 can assure you that the general
Principle of preparing youth for public service in Church and State, and making
them useful members of Society, without concerning ourselves about their particular
religious denomination, is our grand Idea.    And we [hope], when you shall be
pleased to look into the Constitution of this Seminary of Learning, and, by hon-
ouring us with your personal Attendance at our Meetings, see the Manner of our
Procedure, you will conceive          it   an object worthy of the notice of the Supreme
Magistrate.
  " We
        acknowledge the Honour your Excellency has done us by your present
Attendance, and we most heartily wish you a long-continued and prosperous Ad-
ministration in this Province.        Signed in the name of the Trustees,
                                                            " RICHARD
                                                                        STOCKTON, Clerk.
     " To which his
                      Excellency was pleased to return the following answer         :




     "                    I hereby thank you for your Address.       It will be at all times a
         GENTLEMEN,
particular satisfaction to me to give you every assistance in my power in promoting
the prosperity of this useful Seminary of Learning.
                                                                        "
                                                                            JOSIAH HARDY.
     "
         PRINCET., Sept. 27, 1762."

     The following account of the proceedings at this Commence-
ment is given in the " Pennsylvania Gazette" of the 2 1st of Oc-
tober, in a letter dated
     "
         Princeton, September 30, 1762.            Yesterday the Trustees of the College of
New Jersey, with His Excellency the Governor, attended the Commencement.
After the usual Procession, and a solemn Invocation of the Divine blessing on the
254
               HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

business of the day and the candidates for the honors of the College, the ex-
ercises were introduced by
  " I.     An elegant Salutatory oration in Latin, pronounced by Mr. James Manning.
  " 2.     The young gentlemen gave an agreeable specimen of their skill in Disputa-
tion, which    was carried on alternately in the syllogistic and forensic way. The
subject of the first, which was syllogistic,
                                                was the following Thesis             :



  " 'Conservatio non est continua creatio,' which was well defended and opposed,
  "        This was followed by a forensic dispute on this question        :
                                                                               '
                                                                                   Whether a Prince
      3.
endowed with the virtues of civil government, but not with military, is to be pre-
ferred to one of the most shining military genius if he       is    destitute of the virtues

necessary for governing in peace ?' Which was decided in the affirmative, after
being debated on both sides with much spirit and eloquence.
  "                                                               on politeness
    4. To relax the attention of the audience, an English oration
was   pronounced by Mr. Joseph Periam, which gave universal satisfaction for the
justness of the sentiments, the elegance of the composition,
                                                                       and the propriety with
which it was delivered.
  "        Thesis next debated was, Anima humana dum in corpus infunditur
    5. The
                                            '




a Deo immediate creatur,' which afforded pleasure to the learned portion of the
Auditory.
  " 6. The exercises of the forenoon were concluded
                                                            by a forensic dispute on this
subject    :
               '
                 Whether moral as well as mathematical truths are capable of demonstra-
tion ?'        WThich was judiciously maintained and determined in the affirmative to
general satisfaction.
  "                                                        a dispute, which was
    7. The entertainments in the afternoon were begun by

very ingeniously managed by the respondent, on this Thesis   Sensus moralis qua
                                                                           '
                                                                       :




simplex perceptio atque moralis obligationis fundamentum non datur.'
  " 8. The last
                question disputed by the Bachelors, being, Whether Noah's
                                                                   '
                                                                          Flood
was Universal ?' gave agreeable amusement to the Auditory by the popular and
pertinent manner in which it was canvassed.
   "
     9.    A
          Valedictory oration in English, pronounced by Mr. Isaac Allen with
                                                                    for the honor
graceful ease and propriety, closed the exercises of the candidates
of Bachelor's degree.
  " 10. The
              following Thesis was learnedly defended and opposed by the candi-
dates for Master's degree : ' Deus hominem sine virtute non primario creavit neque
creare potuit.'
  "II. After this, twenty-one young gentlemen were admitted to the honor of
Bachelor of Arts, and twelve to the second degree. In behalf of the last-men-
tioned candidates was agreeably delivered an English oration by Mr. James Lyon.
   " 12. Mr.
             Ker, who for some time past had officiated in the character of a Tutor,
took his leave of the society in a short Valedictory address.
   " The whole concluded with a Poetical Entertainment
                                                            given by the candidates
for Bachelor's degree, interspersed with choruses of Music, which, with the whole

performance of the day, afforded universal satisfaction to a polite
                                                                    and crowded
 auditory."
                                                                                         "
      The entertainment here referred to was entitled                                        The Mili-
 tary Glory of Great Britain." In his notes of President
                                                         Davies's
           ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY.                              255
                                                          "
administration, Dr. Green speaks of it as a poetic dialogue, the
subject of which was the glorious achievements of the British
arms both by sea and land," and which was supposed by him
to have been writtenby President Davies, and to have been
recited at the  Commencement of 1760 (see his "Notes," page
       but it was a part of the exercises of the class of 1762, at
339);
least eighteen months after the death of Mr. Davies, and there
was in this class talent fully equal to such a production.
      A copy of this dramatic exercise has been recently given to
the College library.              It is printed in a quarto pamphlet, and an

its    title-page  spoken of as performed at the close of the
                        it   is

Commencement of 1762.      Dr. Green's account of it is given
from a recollection of what he heard in his boyhood, as he
himself says.
  At this meeting of the Board there was a further recognition
of Mr. Halsey's valuable services, and a vote to add fifteen
pounds per annum to his salary.
   The President's salary was also increased by adding to it
fifty pounds proclamation money a year, with the profits of the

grammar-school and it was voted that he be paid his salary
                             ;




half-yearly and, further, that he should have the privilege of
                  ;




educating his sons at the College, as in the case of President
Davies, without charge for their tuition.
  The following minute was adopted in regard to the tuition-
fees of students entering advanced classes                    :




  " The Trustees
                 having considered the Law formerly made by this Board, order-
ing that the Students who enter in any year after the Freshman year should
pay the Tuition Money of the preceding years ; It is now Voted, That those who
enter this year       and hereafter shall enter the Sophomore Class, shall only pay the
sum of thirty shillings proc. and those who enter the Junior year, shall pay the
                                   ;


sum of forty shillings entrance money, besides the ordinary tuition."


  Among the more important measures of the Trustees at this
meeting were the following                :




  1. The confirming of the gift of a lot of land which ten
of the Trustees, not a quorum of the Board, had made to
sundry inhabitants of Princeton for the erection of a church
building.
      2.   Requesting Mr. Wm. Peartree Smith, a member of the
256        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

Board, to draw up a full account of the College from its foun-
dation, and to print the same at the expense of the College.
     3.   Ordering the erection of a kitchen for the use of the Col-
lege.
  4. The appointment of managers of the first and only lottery
ever granted to the College by the Legislature of the Province,
and the returning of the thanks of the Board to the Legisla-
ture for the privilege given.
     The sum authorized to be raised by this lottery was three
thousand pounds proc.
     The appointment of Messrs. Samuel Blair and James
     5.

Thompson to be Tutors.
  The next meeting was held on Wednesday, the 28th of
September, 1763, the day of the annual Commencement. His
Excellency William Franklin, Esq., recently appointed Gov-
ernor of the Province, President Finley, and fourteen of the
Trustees, were present on this occasion. The Trustees availed
themselves of the opportunity now afforded by the Governor's
presence to present to him an address, which, with his answer,
is taken from the "New York Gazette" of October II, 1763,

there being no reference to it in the minutes of the Board                       :




"
    May it please your Excellency   :


    " The Trustees of the
                         College of New Jersey deem themselves happy in this op-
portunity of presenting your Excellency with their respects ; and beg that you will
be pleased to accept their congratulations upon your appointment to this Govern-
ment. They have only to wish that a more early day had been in their Power.
  " Your
          Disposition to favor every Institution calculated to promote Learning and
the general Good of Mankind is not to be doubted ; and therefore with Pleasure
we beg leave to recommend to your Excellency's Patronage the College under our
care.  We can assure you that we have endeavored to form it on such a plan, and
to conduct it in such a manner, as to make it of the most general and extensive use-
fulness.    Our Idea is to send into the World good Scholars and useful members of
Society.    Your Excellency's Predecessors, since the founding of this College, have
severally, in their turns, been pleased to think it worthy of their regard ; which,
with the Benefactions of the Public Spirited at home and abroad, under the divine
blessing, has brought it to its present flourishing state.   We hope for and expect its
increase under your Excellency's Influence.
  " The Governor of this          for the time
                            Colony,                being, by the Charter of Incorpora-
tion is a member and President of our Board ;    and we hope your Excellency will
be pleased to honor this Institution by your personal attendance in these capacities.
Your Excellency has our most cordial wishes for your Public and Domestic Hap-
          ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 257

piness, and for your Peace, Comfort, and Usefulness
                                                    in the Administration of the

Government of this Province.
                                                         " RICHARD
                                                                       STOCKTON, Clerk.
    " To which his
                         Excellency was pleased to give the following Answer     :




    "                          cordial Acknowledgments are due to you for this obliging
        GENTLEMEN,        My
Testimony of your Regard. I am fully sensible of the Utility of the Institution
under your care, and have the highest opinion of the merits of the Gentlemen by
whose good Management it has been brought, in so short a space of time, to its
present flourishing condition.     If my endeavors can in any way contribute to the
further perfecting of this salutary work, you may depend it shall never be wanting."


    Nineteen members of the Senior class were admitted to their
firstdegree in the Arts, and eleven graduates to their second
degree.   Several of those admitted to these degrees at this time
became distinguished in the several professions.
  The Rev. Charles Beatty was chosen a Trustee, in the room
of the Rev. Caleb Smith, deceased, and John Berrien, Esq., in
the place of James Hude, Esq.
    Among the matters which claimed the attention of the Board
at this time was the grant of a lot of land which had been                           made
to the inhabitants of Princeton for the erection of a church edi-

fice,    and in reference to this there is the following minute                      :



    " It is
              ordered, That Mr. Wm. P. Smith, Mr. Woodruff, Dr. Redman, Mr. Treat,
and Mr. Brainerd be a committee to settle with the Congregation of Princeton the
matter respecting the lot of land which this Board heretofore has ordered to be con-

veyed to them, for the erection of a church and for a burying-ground, and that the
said committee have full power to offer the Congregation such terms as they think

proper, in consideration of their releasing their claim to the said lot of land, or to
make such other agreement with the said Congregation touching the premises as
the said committee shall judge proper."
  " It                                                    " that the lot
       appears from this minute," says President Green,                  granted by
the Trustees to the Congregation of Princeton, for the erection of a church and for
a burial-ground, was expected to revert to the College. This, however, did not
take place.  The transactions between the Trustees of the College and the Congre-
gation of Princeton relative to this concern were numerous and of long continuance.
A  particular detail of them will not be given.    The result was that in 1762 and
1763 a church was built on the         lot originally given by the   College; that the Trus-
tees of the College lent about         ^700 to the congregation to aid in building the
church ; that a burial-ground was obtained in another place, as a donation from Dr.
Thomas Wiggins       ;
                          that the money loaned to the congregation was eventually paid ;
that the inside of the church, as well as of the College edifice, was destroyed by the
British and American armies during the Revolutionary war, and repaired at a very
considerable expense ; that the church was entirely consumed, except the walls,
which were of brick, by a fire which took place by accident in February, 1813;
258
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

that it was rebuilt at the     expense of the congregation, with the aid of $500 con-
tributed by the College ; that the College has by contract an exclusive right to the
church on the day of Commencement, on the evening that precedes it, and at such
other times as the faculty shall state in writing that it is needed for the public ex-
ercises of the institution ;   and also a claim to one-half the gallery for the use of
the students on the Sabbath."

  Upon what authority Dr. Green says that the burial-ground
mentioned above was the gift of Dr. Wiggins the writer of this
history is unable to discover and he apprehends that it is an
                                          ;




error, and that the error arose               from the fact that Dr. Wiggins,
either then or subsequently, owned   some twenty acres of land,
more or less, adjacent to the lot used by the College and con-
gregation for a burial-ground, and which lot was purchased by
the College of the Hon. Thomas Leonard, in 1757, several years

prior to these transactions between the College and the people
of the town. Of Judge Leonard's deed to the College mention
is made in the first volume of the Minutes of the Board, pages

193, 340, and 361.             The cemetery now in possession of the First
                                      is an enlargement of the
Presbyterian Church of Princeton
above-mentioned burial-ground by adding to it several acres
of land, a part of Dr. Wiggins's real estate, bequeathed by him,
in 1804, to the trustees of said church.
   The church was burnt again in the summer of 1834, and was
rebuilt at the expense of the congregation, with some aid from
the College, at which time the College relinquished all claim to
the use of the church for public exercises, with the exception
of those connected with the annual Commencement.
  At this meeting of the Board measures were taken for the
purchase of a small lot of ground adjacent to the College
grounds, and belonging to Mr. Robert Smith, of Philadelphia,
the architect and builder of the College edifice.
  The next minute of the Board is important, as indicating the
                                                         "
time when the spring vacation began, and is as follows     It is            :




ordered, that a meeting of the Trustees be attended on Wednes-
day before the second Monday in April next, at which time the
Spring vacation begins."
  The annual Commencement at this time was held on the last
Wednesday in September, and the autumnal vacation began at
the close of the Commencement exercises. This plan of having
        ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 259

two terms and two vacations continued for more than a hundred
years, viz., from the foundation of the College until the year
1867, in which year the plan of having three terms and three
vacations was          introduced.      But before       this,   viz.,   in   1844, a
change was made in the day of holding the Commencement
from the last Wednesday in September to the last Wednesday
in June, and a corresponding change occurred in the College
terms and vacations.
   Mr. Wm. P. Smith having declined the service of drawing up
an account of the College, the President of the College, Rev.
Dr. Finley, was desired to do the same, and to have his draft
ready to lay before the Board at their next meeting in the ensu-
ing spring.
   The salaries of the President and of the Tutors were all in-
creased at this meeting of the Board the President's to three
                                                    :



hundred pounds proc. per annum, the Senior Tutor's to seventy-
fivepounds, and those of the two Junior Tutors to sixty-five
pounds each and it was ordered that the late Tutor, Mr. Ker,
                   ;



should be allowed twenty-five pounds in addition to his salary.
  It was also ordered, "That an English School be forthwith

erected in this College, which is to be under the inspection and

government of the President of the College for the time being."
  A grammar-school, in connection with the College, was es-
tablished in Mr. Burr's time.    Respecting these schools the
following remarks occur in the account of the College published
by order of the Trustees, in 1764:
  " There is a
                 grammar-school annexed to the College as a nursery for it, under the
general inspection of the President, though not a part of the original constitution.
This was first set up by President Burr, and has been handed down to his succes-
sors, the Trustees   taking it under their patronage during the several vacancies in
that office.   Besides the Latin and Greek languages, into which the youth are here
initiated, they have been early taught the graces of a good delivery, and spent a
small portion of every day in improving their handwriting, for which purpose a

proper attendant hath been hitherto provided. But this expedient being found by
experience not fully to answer those purposes, it was lately judged proper that an
English school should be also established, for the sole intention of teaching young
lads to write well, to cipher, and to pronounce and read the English tongue with

accuracy and precision."


   The next meeting of the Board occurred on Wednesday, the
2 6o        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

2Oth of June, 1764.   At this meeting there were present his
Excellency  Governor  Franklin, President Finley, and thirteen
other Trustees.  Robert Ogden, Esq., of Elizabethtown, New
Jersey, was chosen Trustee of the College, in the room of the
Rev. David Bostwick, deceased, and the Rev. Lambert De Ronde,
of New York, in the room of the Rev. Jacob Green, resigned.
  " The President informed the Board that he had erected an
                                                              English school in the
College, and employed a master for that purpose," of which the Board expressed
their approval, and desired the President "to carry on the same in such manner as
he shall think most advantageous for the College."

   The      following minute occurs           in   reference to Mr.       Samuel
Blair, who, two years after, was chosen President of the College,
but who declined the appointment upon learning that Dr. With-
erspoon was willing to accept the Presidency should he receive
a second invitation so to do         :




  " The Trustees
                   having received information that Mr. Samuel Blair, lately a
Tutor of this College, has done extraordinary services in his office, it is ordered,
That    2$ be presented to the said Mr. Blair by the Treasurer in consideration
thereof."


   There is no intimation whatever as to the character of these
extraordinary services, and, for some good reason, no doubt,
nothing further is said in regard to them. At the preceding
meeting of the Board, in September, 1763, the President of the
College, Dr. Finley, was requested to prepare for publication an
account of the College.   It is probable that the declining state

of his health and his various and arduous duties prevented his
attending to this matter personally, and that he placed the ma-
terials forsuch a history in the hands of Mr. Blair to prepare
the desired account that it was written by Mr. Blair under the
                          ;


direction and, it     may be, under the supervision of Dr. Finley,
and printed by order of the Trustees, as stated in the title-page
of the pamphlet containing said account, although no mention
of any of these things is made in the minutes of the Board.

  This account is spoken of by President Green and others as Dr. Finley's history
of the College.   But the writer's name is not given on the     title-page,   and the
                           "
pamphlet itself is entitled An Account of the College of New Jersey, in which are
described the Methods of Government, Modes of Instruction, Manner and Expenses
of Living in the same, &c., with a Prospect of the College neatly engraved.     Pub-
        ADMINISTRATION OF TL'E REV. SAMUEL FINLEY.                                  2 6l


lished, by order of the Trustees, for the information of the public, particularly of
the friends and benefactors of the institution in Europe and America.         Woodbridge
in   New Jersey.          Printed by James Parker, 1764."


  From a comparison of dates, it appears that the presenting of
the twenty-five pounds took place the very year in which the
account of the College was published by order of the Board.
The conjecture given above finds abundant corroboration in the
fact that within a few years after its publication the pamphlet is
mentioned as the work of Mr. Blair. Mr. Madison, the fourth
President of the United States, was a student and a graduate in
1771 of the College. In a letter of his, of the date of August
1 6,
     1769, to the Rev. Thomas Martin, who had been an inmate
of his father's family and Mr. Madison's tutor, this sentence
              "
occurs    :       I   have been as particular to my father as I thought
necessary for this time, as I send him an account of the institu-
tion wrote by Mr. Blair, the                gentleman formerly elected Presi-
dent of this place."                  (See Mr.  Madison's letter in Professor
                      "
Cameron's                 History of the American            Whig Society," pages
231, 232.)
  The manner in which Dr. Finley and his administration of
the College are spoken of in the pamphlet makes it evident
that the pamphlet was not all written by him, and the unity
of the style shows it to be the work of one individual, and that
individual we believe to be Mr. Blair.
  Here it may not be amiss to say that in the view given of
the origin of the College we differ from Mr. Blair, who speaks
of the College only under the second charter, and who prob-
ably was not aware that the College was in existence under a
previous charter, given by the Honorable John Hamilton, Presi-
dent of the Council and acting Governor of the Province.
     It seems to           have been a favorite aim of some of the leading
friends of the College, after the granting of the second charter,
to regard Governor Belcher as                      its   founder   ;
                                                                       and Mr. Blair not
unnaturally adopted                 their   view of the case.
                                                  But, for reasons
assigned in the chapter  on  the  College charters, it is only in a
very limited sense that he  can  be styled its founder.
     The pamphlet here referred to is one of forty-eight pages,
small octavo, neatly printed                 ;
                                                 and of course the account given
2 62      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

of the origin of the institution, and of its progress and con-
dition for a period of sixteen years, must be a very succinct
one.     Still, it   is   a very valuable     work to any one desirous to
learn the state of the College at the time of its publication.
  Of the meeting of the Board and of the exercises at the
Commencement September 26, 1764, there is no record in the
minutes of the Trustees.              Two blank pages were left for the
insertion of these minutes.
  It appears from the minutes of September 25, 1765, that the

Rev. John Rodgers, then of St. George's, Delaware, afterwards
of New York City, was chosen a Trustee at the meeting of the
Board in September, 1764. And in the triennial catalogue are
given the names of those who were admitted to their first de-
gree in the Arts. The programme of the Commencement exer-
cises for the year 1764 gives the names of all who took part in
these exercises, with the exception of the Salutatory and Vale-
dictory orators.          (See pages 268-272, post.)
     The next Commencement of the College was held on Wed-
nesday, the 25th of September, 1765, and it was the last one
at which President Finley presided. The College was in a
very flourishing condition, the number of students larger than
at any previous date in the history of the institution, the atten-
tion to study and the orderly behavior of the students highly
commendable. Thirty-one members of the Senior class were
admitted to the           first   degree   in the Arts,   and eleven to their
second degree.
     Dr. William Shippen, of Philadelphia, was chosen a Trustee,
in the room of theRev. John Pierson, resigned, and Mr. Joseph
Periam was chosen a Tutor.      Mr. Periam was also chosen
Clerk of the Board, in the room of Richard Stockton, Esq.,
resigned. It appears from the minutes that Mr. Periam had

discharged the duties of a Tutor during the previous year
without a formal appointment by the Board.
     The President of the College having informed the Board that
sundry inconveniences had resulted from having the English
school kept in the College building, he was requested to make
provision for it elsewhere, and in such manner as he thought
proper.
        ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 263

      The first order touching the planting of shade-trees on the
College grounds was passed at this meeting of the Board; and it
may interest the students and graduates of the College to know
that the two very large sycamore-trees standing near the front

gate of the President's yard at this date, December 6, 1872, and
in their full vigor, are the   remnants of the trees planted in the
autumn of 1765.
      The President's salary was increased one hundred pounds.
  It was ordered, that every student and graduate, the officers

of the College excepted, who makes use of the College library,
should pay the sum of two shillings and sixpence every quar-
ter of a year, to be expended for the use of the library.     And
itwas further ordered, that no student of the College should be
allowed to have the key of the library and that every person
                                          ;



who is admitted there should be introduced by one of the officers
of the College.
      The door to the cupola of the College was ordered to be kept
constantly locked; it was also ordered that no person should
be permitted to have the key but the President, the Tutors,
the Steward, and the servant charged with the care of the
belfry. The main object of this order was probably to guard
against the danger from fire, the roof and belfry being wholly
of wood, although the outer walls were entirely of stone and
allthe inner walls of brick.  Every possible care was taken by
the College authorities, both before and at this time, to protect
the building from fire,    by digging an additional well, and pro-
viding a fire-engine, ladders and buckets, and everything that
would be of use in case of a fire. These precautions were all
right and proper, and may have prevented an earlier destruction
of the main building than that which took place in March, 1802.
      The next meeting of the Board was held at Nassau Hall, on
Wednesday, the 25th of June, 1766.     From the minutes of this
date it appears that the Trustees received, by the hands of Dr.
Redman, one of their number, an order for one hundred pounds
sterling, for the use of the College, in    support of a Divinity
professor.     This was the gift of Mr. John Williamson, of Han-
over, Virginia, to    whom the Board returned their thanks for
his generous donation.    And the gift was as seasonable as it
264       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

was generous, for it enabled the Board not long after to appoint
a Professor of Divinity, in the person of the Rev. John Blair.
The order was upon Mr. Samuel Waterman, of London and                    ;



the obtaining of the money was intrusted to the care of Richard
Stockton, Esq., a member of the Board, who had gone to New
York on his way to London, on his private affairs, but who
availed himself of the opportunity to render the College not

only this particular service, but others of even greater moment,
as will appear in the course of this history.
  A committee, consisting of the Honorable William Smith
and the Rev. Messrs. De Ronde and Rodgers, was appointed to
                                            "
prepare an address to his Majesty for his gracious condescen-
sion to these Colonies in the repeal of the Stamp Act ;" and also
a petition, to be presented at the same time, for a grant of sixty
thousand acres of land in the Province of New York, from the
lands then recently added to New York from the Province of
New Hampshire. The address and the petition were accord-
ingly prepared, and, being signed by the Honorable Edward
Shippen, the acting President of the Board at this meeting,
were sent to Mr. Stockton, with the request that he should
take such measures and engage such friends of this institution
in   London to assist him in this matter as he should be advised
by the Rev. Dr. Chandler would be most expedient. A letter
was written by the committee to the reverend Doctor, soliciting
his aid.  The Dr. Chandler here .spoken of is the same gen-
tleman who is mentioned by Mr. Davies as exercising his friendly
offices in behalf of the College at the time Messrs. Tennent and
Davies visited London.
                                                              "
  Upon his return home, Mr. Stockton reported to the Board that he had the
honor of presenting to his Majesty the address of the Trustees, which was very
graciously received that the petition was lodged in the Plantation Office
                   ;
                                                                           and
                                                                             ;



that my  Lord Shelburne had promised him to lay the same before the King in
Council." The Board returned their thanks to Mr. Stockton for his services to the
College while in Great Britain.

     Whether the petition was ever brought to the notice of the
King and Council is not known; but one thing is certain, that
it   did not obtain for the College the grant of land asked for in
the petition.
             ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SA MLEL FINLEY.                           265
     "                                                        "
         The Rev. Mr. De Ronde" (of New York) having laid before
the Board a plan for the introduction of a professor of divinity
to be obtained from Holland, for the service of the Dutch as well
as English Presbyterian Churches in these parts, the Trustees

having maturely considered the same, are of the opinion that
the proposal is not yet ripe for prosecution, and therefore defer
the further consideration thereof to the next meeting."                       At the
next meeting it was again deferred, and this* was the end of it.
In 1/69, Mr. De Ronde resigned his place at the Board.
     " It was
           ordered, That no student hereafter board out of the College unless by
permission of the President, or, in his absence, of the next senior officer, to be given
only in case the student applying for such permission produce a certificate of a.
physician that the state of his health renders such an indulgence necessary.."

     Dr. Finley was not present at this meeting of the Board'.
The     cause of his absence is apparent from the following
minutes          :




     " As Dr.
           Finley, the President of this College, is now in a languishing state, and
as     highly probable that he will be removed by death before the next Com-
     it is


mencement, or at least that he will be unable to preside at the public exercises on
that occasion, the Trustees       have unanimously appointed the Rev. Mr. Spencer
to preside on that day, and to confer the degrees in the usual manner; and the said
Mr. Spencer was pleased to signify his acquiescence in this appointment. And the
Trustees do further direct, that in case of the President's death, the fees and per-

quisites usually paid to the President for the degrees be received        by the eldest
Tutor, to be disposed of as the Trustees shall hereafter direct."
     " It
             having pleased our holy God to visit Dr. Finley, the worthy President of
this College, with great      and distressing illness, whereby he is at present entirely
unable to perform the duties of his important station ; and it appearing necessary for
the welfare of this institution that some person be invested with the power and author-

ity of the President, in order the better to manage the affairs of the Seminary ; this
Board have appointed the Rev. Mr. Wm. Tennent to act in the room and stead of
President Finley during his absence, and do hereby invest him with full power and'

authority to execute the said office until next    Commencement, or during President
Finley's absence and disability;      and Mr. Tenr-ent was qualified accordingly."

      Dr. Finley died on the i/th of July, 1766, in the city of
Philadelphia, to which  city he had gone that he might have
the benefit of the best medical skill, and he was buried there
by the side of his intimate friend, the Rev. Gilbert Tennent.
  The following references to his illness and death, and to
the services of Messrs. William Tennent, Spencer, and Halsey,
occur in" the minutes of this meeting of the Board:
         VOL. i.     18
2 66     HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
  " The Trustees taking into consideration the good services of the Rev. Mr. Wil-
liam Tennent since the disability and death of the late Rev'd and worthy Dr. Finley,
do unanimously agree to present the said Mr. Tennent with the sum of twenty
pounds, besides defraying his necessary expenses in town during that time and           ;



also to the Rev. Mr. Elihu Spencer, the sum of ten pounds, in consideration of his

presiding and conferring the degrees at the public Commencement; both which
sums Mr. Baldwin, the Steward, is directed to pay the said gentlemen."
  " Whereas
              sundry weighty and important reasons have induced this Board to
augment the late worthy President's salary, from time to time, to the sum of ^400 ;
but inasmuch as the occasion of the late necessary augmentation is removed, and
the present low state of the College funds will not allow this Board to continue that

salary for the future in   its
                                 present circumstances ;   it is
                                                                   agreed, therefore, that the
stated salary of the next President shall be ^250, with the usual perquisites."
  " The Trustees also
                        considering the great and important services that have been
rendered to this institution by Mr. Jeremiah Halsey, over and above the necessary
duties of his office as Tutor of the College, do, in consideration of his extraordi-

nary and faithful services, unanimously agree that the sum of sixty-one pounds,
being the graduation money, by calculation, now in his hands, be presented to him,
or whatever the fees may amount to, be the same more or less."


  Mr. Jonathan Edwards, a son of President Edwards, was
unanimously chosen a Tutor of the College, in the room of Mr.
Periam, resigned.
  The following extracts, from the authorized account of -the College mentioned
above, will show the course of instruction during the Presidency of Dr. Finley. (See
pp. 23-30.)
   " As to the branches of literature
                                      taught here, they are the same with those which
are made parts of education in the       European Colleges, save only such as may be
occasioned by the infancy of this institution.      The students are divided into four
distinct classes, which are called the  Freshman, the Sophomore, the Junior, and
the Senior.   In each of these they continue one year, giving and receiving in their
turns those tokens of respect and subjection which belong to their standings, in
order to preserve a due subordination. The Freshman year is spent in Latin and
Greek languages, particularly in reading Horace, Cicero's Orations, the Greek Testa-
ment, Lucian's Dialogues, and Xenophon 's Cyroptzdia. In the Sophomore year they
still prosecute the study of the languages, particularly Homer, Longinus, &.C., and

enter upon the sciences, geography, rhetoric, logic, and the mathematics.           They con-
                                             Junior year, and also pass through
tinue their mathematical studies throughout the
a course of natural and moral philosophy, metaphysics, chronology, &c.; and the
                                                                                are
greater number, especially such as are educating for the service of the church,
initiated into the Hebrew.   .   The Senior year is entirely employed in reviews
                                 .   .




and composition.    They now revise the most improving parts of Latin and Greek
classics, part of the Hebrew Bible, and all the arts and sciences.   The weekly
course of disputation is continued, which was also carried on through the preceding

year.   They discuss two or three theses in a week ; some in the syllogistic and others
in the forensic manner, alternately ; the forensic being always performed in the Eng-
          ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL F1NLEY.                                      2 6j

lish tongue.     A
                 series of questions is also prepared on the principal subjects of

natural and revealed religion. These (disputations) are delivered publicly, on Sun-

days, before a promiscuous congregation, as well as the College, in order to habituate
them early to face an assembly, as also for other important and religious ends, to
which they are found conducive. There is likewise a monthly oration-day, when
harangues, or orations of their own composition, are pronounced before a mixed
auditory.  All these compositions before mentioned are critically examined with

'respect to language, orthography, pointing, capitalizing, with other minutiae, as well
as more material properties of accurate writing."
  " Besides these exercises in
                               writing and speaking, most of which are proper to the
Senior class, on every Monday three, and on other evenings of the week, excepting
Saturdays and Sundays, two out of each of the three inferior classes, in rotation, pro-
nounce declamations of their own composing on the stage. These too are pre-
viously examined and corrected, and occasion taken from them early to form a
taste for good writing. The same classes also, in rotation, three on Tuesday even-
ings, and two on other evenings, with the exceptions just mentioned, pronounce, in
like manner, such select pieces from Cicero, Demosthenes, Livy, and other ancient

authors, and from Shakspeare, Milton, Addison, and such illustrious moderns, as
are best adapted to display the various passions, and exemplify the graces of utter-
ance and gesture.            A good address, and agreeable elocution, are accomplishments
so ingratiating, and so necessary to render a public speaker, especially, popular,
and consequently useful, that they are esteemed here as considerable parts of edu-
 cation, in the cultivation of which no little pains are employed.
      " The classics are
                         taught, for the three first years, in nearer the usual method of
grammar-schools than in the last.        The students then revise them, principally as
 examples of fine composition. They first give a more literal translation of a para-
 graph, afterwards the sense in a paraphrase of their own, and then criticise upon
 the beauties of the author. In which work they are assisted by the President. No
 authors are read        more particularly with this view than Homer, Horace, and espe-
 cially Longinus.    .   .   .


      " Each class recites twice a               and have always free access to their teachers,
                                       day   :



 to solve any difficulties that may occur.The bell rings for morning prayer at six
 o'clock, when the Senior class read off a chapter from the original into English.
 The president then proposes a few critical questions upon it, which, after their concise
 answers, he illustrates more at large.     The times of relaxation from study are
 about an hour in the morning, two at noon, and three in the evening ; and in these
 are included the public meals. Evening prayer is always introduced with psalmody ;
 and care is taken to improve the youth in the art of sacred music."
   " The usual method of instruction in the sciences is this.  The pupils frequently
 and deliberately read over such a portion of the author they are studying, on a par-
 ticular science, as it is       judged they can be able thoroughly to impress upon their
 memories.      When they attend their recitations, the tutor proposes questions on
 every particular they have been reading.                After they have given, in their turns,
 such answers as show their general acquaintance with the subject, he explains
 it more at large ; allows them to propose any difficulties ; and takes pains to
 discover whether his explications be fully comprehended. Advantages which are
 seldom attainable in the usual method of teaching by lecture.
2 68       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
  " In the instruction of the
                                 youth, care is taken to cherish a spirit of liberty and
free enquiry ;      and not only to permit, but even encourage their right of private
judgment, without presuming to dictate with an air of infallibility, or demanding
an implicit assent to the decisions of the preceptor."
  " The
           Senior, jhmior, and (towards the conclusion of their year) the Sophomore
classes are allowed the free use of the college library, .             .   .   and especially to assist
them in preparing their disputations and other compositions."                     .   .   .


  " On the third
                   Wednesday in August annually,* the Senior class are examined
by the trustees, the college officers, and other gentlemen of learning then present,
throughout    all   the branches of literature they have been here taught.                     And if
approved as worthy of academical honors, the president assigns them the parts
they are respectively to perform at the anniversary                commencement; the general
proceedings of which are so publicly known as to supersede all necessity of descrip-
tion. They are then graduated Bachelors of Arts. After an interval of three years
they are usually admitted to the Master's degree."         .   .   .



  The rules adopted, while Mr. Davies was President, in reference to the con-
ferring of the second degree in the Arts (see page 210), continued in force
during the administration of President Finley. Although the author of the above
extracts deemed the general proceedings at the annual Commencements to be so
well known to the public as to do away with the necessity of any mention of them
as they were at that time ; still, the students and graduates of the present day will
read with pleasure the following programme of the Commencement exercises of
1764, copied from Dr. Green's Sketch of the College.
  Dr. Green transcribed it from a paper in the handwriting of President Finley,
sent to him by Dr. James Edwards Burr Finley, of Charleston, South Carolina,
a son of President Finley. This gentleman is mentioned by Dr. Green under the
name of Ebenezer Finley, which was the name of an elder brother, who died several
years before Dr. Green received the paper.

                                 "
                                     THE PROCESS, ETC.
  The Trustees, being at the President's house, the candidates standing at the door,
two and two, upon his saying,
                            Progredimini Juvenes, they walk,
  1. The Bachelor candidates.
  2. The Masters.

  3. The Tutors and any Ministers present.

  4. The Trustees.

  5. The President,  the Governor at his right hand.
                                All seated, Prayer succeeds.
                                     Prseses (capite tecto).
  '
   Auditores docti ac benevoli, Juvenes primam Lauream ambientes, cupiunt vos
per Oratorem salutare ; quod illis a vobis concessum fidunt.'
                               Ascendat Orator Salutatorius.



       * At first the final examination took
                                                place on the last Wednesday in July.
       ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY.

   #****#***#*                        Distribuantur Theses.


   Quoniam, docti Auditores, accurata disputandi Ratio ad verum a falso secer-
nendum plurimum valet, Juvenes Artibus initiati, parvula quaedam eorum in ea
specimina, vobis jam sunt exhibituri.
                        Prima Disputatio, syllogistice tractanda
                                           Thesis est,
                    Mentiri, ut vel Natio conservetur, haud fas est.
            Qui hanc Thesin probare atque defendere statuit, ascendat.
                                             Foster

                        Qui Thesin oppugnari judicavit, ascendat.
                            Primus Opponens       Lawrence.
  Quanquam concederetur Sermonem ad felicitatem hominum provehendam consti-
tutum fuisse, attamen non seque nobis constat quid semper ad eum finem conducit                       ;


sed majus credendum        est   Mendacium nunquam ad eum facere; dum exemplum
Virtutis omnibus prodesse potest.
                              Secundus Opponens            Smith,
                                          Determinatio.
  Mentiri, quacunque de causa, ignobile et sua Natura pravum esse, res ipsa
clamat, et ferme ab omnibus, prsecipue Virtutem colentibus, conceditur. Quod si
omnino fas esse possit, Deus comprobat          ;
                                                    et si ille possit probare, non est   neces-
sario verax; sed impossibile est eum mentiri, ergo et mendacium probare.
  Nee ratio Veritatis ab hominum Felicitate, sed Dei Rectitudine pendet                      ;
                                                                                                  et

quoniam sibi semper constare necesse est, non potest non esse rectus. Ergo falsum
necessario improbat, ut ejus naturae oppositum; et vetat             Malum facere, ut quidvis
Bonum inde sequatur, etiam ut Natio conservetur.

  The following is an English forensick Dispute, which, for Reasons often men-
tioned, is introduced, viz., it entertains the English part of the Audience, tends to
the cultivation of our native language, and has been agreeable on former occasions ;
which I presume are sufficient apologies for continuing the custom.
                                        The Thesis is
  Somnia non sunt universaliter inania, et nihil significantia.
                                  In English
  All dreams are not useless and insignificant.
  Who undertakes the defence of this position ?            Miller.
  Whoever has any objections against what has been offered, let him speak.
Tredwell.
  Who judges   it fit   to answer these objections ?      McCreery.
                                         Determination.
   Although I see no necessity of accounting for all dreams from the Agency of
other Spirits (any more than to interest them in the Reveries of the mind, when
lost in mere imaginary scenes, \vhile we are awake, without reflecting that they are

not realities) ; yet that foreign Spirits have access to ours, as well when we are

asleep as awake, is inconsistent with no Principle of Reason. And if some dreams
cannot be otherwise accounted for, than by having recourse to foreign             Spirits,       we
must then admit their agency      ;
                                      since there can be no effect without a cause.      And
270
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

though it must be granted that our own Spirits at the same time think, yet there is
no Inconsistency in supposing that other Spirits gave Occasion to their thinking of
some subjects rather than others, as is the case in conversing together when we
are awake.
   What has been matter of fact is certainly still possible and we know that in
                                                                   ;


some cases infinite Wisdom chose to employ Angels to communicate divine Instruc-
tions in Dreams, which establishes the general Doctrine.   And Experience assures
us that Impressions made on these Occasions are very deep and lively and, as has      ;


been observed, those very Dreams, that come from fulness of Business, or other
causes mentioned, shew us the Temper of our Minds, and in that view are useful


     x-**-********
and significant.

     To unbend the Mind by an agreeable Variety, as far as may consist with the
Exercises of the Day, an English intermediate Oration is next to be delivered.


     ********-5t**                 Ascendat Orator intermedius.


                Thesis proxime discutienda, modo pene forensi, est,
        Lux Rationis sola, Incitamenta ad Virtutem satis efficacia, non prsebet.
           Qui hanc Thesin primus defendere statuit, procedat.            Woodhull.
                                Qui primus opponit Thesi procedat,
                                           Lawrence,
                                              Leake.

   Qui Objectiones refellere, et Thesin firmare suscipit, procedat.
   Recte notatum fuit, quod Naturam Peccati probe scire necessarium est, ad Vir-
tutem rite gestimandum. Peccato enim ignoto, odisse illud nequimus et sine Pec-   ;


cati odio, nulla datur Virtus.  Et quoniam clarum est, quod homines, Luce Naturae
sola freti, ignorarunt quid sit virtus, et quales ejus Consequent^ in Seculo futuro;
nesciverunt Deum, verse Virtutis Exemplar, nee non Amorem et Satisfactionem
Domini Salvatoris, quse sola sunt Incitamenta ad Virtutem idonea ; Thesis Valet.
                                    The next Thesis is
                      Nullam veram Virtutem habet, qui omnes non habet.
                                           In English
                      He has not one true virtue, who has not every one.
                       Who undertakes to defend this position?         Tuttle.

                      If any think to oppose it, let him appear.       Hazard.
         Who judges he can confute these arguments, let him speak.               Clagget.
                                          Determination.
  That the Thesis is true, appears demonstrable both from the Simplicity of the
Soul and the Nature of Virtue. As the soul cannot be divided into any Parts, if one
vice is prevalent       it
                             possesses the soul entirely, and the whole principle of action
is   vitiated.   And as Virtue is a Disposition of Mind to whatever is morally good,
and Goodness must be uniform and of a piece, it can no more be dismembered
than the Soul     :   therefore whatever mixture of vice there may be with virtue, one of
them must necessarily predominate; for seeing that they are perfectly opposite to
each other, it is as impossible for a Person to be under the governing power of both
at once, as for Fire and Water to subsist together, without the one's                 being extin-
guished or the other evaporated.
          ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY.                                          2 ?l

  Virtue consists in the Love of God and Man, nor can it be separated.      The Pre-
tence is not tolerable, that a Hater of his Brother should be a Lover of God.  Now
'tis   certain that one cannot love and hate the same thing at the same Time, and in
the same Respect.      There must then be such a necessary Connexion of all virtues,
that    one cannot possibly be without all ; consequently a single virtue, where any
vice prevails, is but a counterfeit.




   ***********
             Exercitia quse restant ad tertiam Horam P. M. postponuntur.
         The remaining exercises of the Day begin at three o'clock, afternoon.

                       Orator hujus Classis valedictorius ascendat.
       Exercitia, quae a Candidatis secundi Gradus prsestanda sunt, jam sequuntur.
                            Thesis disputanda hsec est, scil          :




                             Jephtha Filiam non immolavit.
                  Ascendat hujus Qusestionis Respondens. Mr. Ker.
                  Ascendat primus qui hanc Thesim veram esse negat.
                                        Determinatio.
   Fatendum est, quod in hac Quaestione docti in Partes abeunt. Sed ut Theseos
Veritas appareat, considerandum est quod fuit Jephthae Votum.     Qui vel, quod-
                                                                                '




cunque exierit e foribus Domus mese, in Occursum meum, erit Domini, et, vel,
offeram illud in Holocaustum,' q. d., vel aptum erit at Sacrificium, vel non si                  :




prius, erit in Holocaustum si non, erit Domino sacrum, devotum.
                             ;                                     Hebraese Voces
non aliter necessario significant nam Vau soepe disjunctive sumitur, ut multis ex-
                                    ;



emplis patet. Adde, quod Deus detestatus est humanas Victimas, et improbavit;
quod cum Sacerdotes saltern norunt, non verisimile est Jephtham eos in tanta causa
non consuluisse. Nee parvum habet momentum, Filiam ejus Spatium deflendi,
non Mortem sed Virginitatem, petiisse cum enim dicitur Jephtha fecisse quod
                                             ;


voverat, sequitur, et non cognoverat Virum.
                    Descendant Candidati hujus Collegii ambientes.
                                        Ad Curatores.
  Juvenes, quos coram vobis, Curatores honorandi ac reverendi, jam sisto, publico
Examini, secundum hujus Academise Leges subjecti, habiti fuerunt omnino digni
qui Honoribus academicis exornarentur            :   Vobis   igitur    comprobantibus,   illos       ad
Gradum petitum, toto Animo admittam.
  Eadem Auctoritate regia, virum Davidem McGregor, Novanglise, de Religione et
Literis bene meritum, ad secundum in Artibus Gradum,                  Honoris causa, admitto.
   Eadem Auctoritate, Reverendum Nathan Ker, Davidem Caldwell, Conciona-
torem Evangelii, necessario absentem; Reverendum Johannem                      Strain, hujus Col-
legii ahunnos,   ad secundum in Artibus Gradum admitto.                   Hoc Anno etiam,
 Jacobus Thompson, A.M.;     Thomas Henderson, A.M.; Johannes Lefferty, A.M.
                             Forma constituendi A.B.
  Auctoritate, regio Diplomate mihi collata, pro More Academiarum in Anglia, vos
ad primum in Artibus Gradum admitto; vobisque hunc Librum trado, una cum
Potestate in Artibus prselegendi et docendi, quotiescunque ad hoc Munus evocati

fueritis;   cujus, hoc Instrumentum, sigillo nostri Collegii ratum, Testimonium sit.
                                 Forma constituendi A.M.
   Auctoritate, regio Diplomate mihi collata, pro More Academiarum in Anglia, vos
ad secundum in Artibus Gradum admitto            ;   vobisque hunc Librum trado, una cum
272       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

Potestate in Artibus praelegendi, publiceque profitendi ac docencli,
                                                                     quotiescunque
ad hoc Munus evocati fueritis   :
                                    cujus hoc Instrumentum, sigillo nostri Collegii ratum,
Testimonium sit.


  In constituendo A.M. honorarios, inseratur haec Clausula, scil           ad secundum in
Artibus Gradum, Honoris causa, admitto.



                           Orator Magistralis valedictorius.
                                         Rev. McGregor.
                                        Rev. Nathan Ker.
                                           Dialogue.
                                            Prayer."

  The rules for admission into the several classes were very
much the same as in the preceding administrations; as will
appear from a comparison of the following extracts, from the
account of the College in 1764, with the requisites for admis-
sion in Mr. Burr's time             :



  " Candidates for admission into the lowest or Freshman class must be
                                                                                 capable of
composing grammatical Latin, translating Virgil, Cicero's Orations, and the four
Evangelists in Greek ; and by a late order [made in Mr. Davies's administration]
must understand the principal rules of vulgar arithmetic."
  " Candidates for
                     any of the higher classes are not only previously examined, but
recite a fortnight upon trial, in that particular class for which they offer themselves ;
and are then fixed in that, or a. lower, as they happen to be judged qualified.But,
unless in very singular and extraordinary cases, none are received after the Junior

year."
   " Besides these examinations for admission into the
                                                         respective classes, and the
last examination of the Senior class, previous to their obtaining the first
                                                                            collegiate
honors, the three inferior classes, at the end of every year, are examined in such
of the classics, arts and sciences, as they have studied, in order for admission into
the next.     And such as are found unqualified are not allowed to rise in the usual
course.     These, in like manner as the       last    examination of the Senior class, are
attended upon by the president and tutors, in conjunction with any other gentlemen
of liberal education who choose to be present.      Dr. Finley hath also instituted
quarterly examinations of the three classes before mentioned.  But these are not so
universal as the former, being restricted to what they have studied during the quarter.

They have been found to answer excellent purposes; for thereby the instructors
can easily observe the gradual progress each one makes, and are thence enabled
to encourage or warn them, as their several cases require.Hence also it may be
easily imagined, it hath not a little conduced to the assiduity and carefulness of the
students in their daily preparations."


  From the beginning, the government and discipline of the
College were administered by the President and the Tutors;
        ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY. 273

and with eminent success.         During the year in which the above-
mentioned account of the College was published, viz., 1764, there
were one hundred and twenty students, and there were " very
few whose conduct rendered them obnoxious even to the milder
methods of punishment." The laws authorized the infliction
of fines, but at this period       in   the history of the College this
mode of punishment seems to have been given up; and ad-
monition, private and before the classes, and suspension from
the privileges of the College, became the exclusive punishments
for violations of the established rules of the institution.               Ex-
pulsion, then as now, could be inflicted only with the consent
of the Trustees.
  At the conclusion of this " account of the College of New
                                  "
Jersey" it is spoken of as  a College originally designed for
the promotion of the general interests of Christianity," as well
as the "cultivation of human science."   And the writer of the
account adds, " To the singular favor of Heaven on the means
of instruction here used, it must be gratefully ascribed that
many youth who have come to Nassau Hall for education, with-
out any just sense of the obligations either of natural or re-
vealed religion, have been here effectually reformed, become
men of solid and rational piety, and now appear upon the stage
of public action employing their talents to the honor of the
Supreme Bestower and in promoting the good of mankind."
  In the year 1762 there was an unusual attention on the part
of the students to the subject of religion, and at the close of
the College year, viz., in September, one-half of the students
were deemed to be hopefully pious.
  An interesting account of this work of grace, written by the
Rev. Dr. John Woodhull,           is    given in Dr. Green's Historical
Sketch of the College.
  During Dr. Finley's administration the following-named gentlemen were mem-
bers of the Faculty, viz.
                       :



  The Rev. Samuel Finley, President from 1761 to 1766.
  Jeremiah Halsey, A.M., pastor of the church at Lamington, New Jersey, Tutor
from 1757 to 1767.
  Jacob Ker, A.M., pastor of the churches at Monokin and Wicomico, 176410
1795, Tutor from 1760 to 1762.
  Samuel Blair, A.M., pastor of Old South Church, at Boston, Tutor from 1761 to
1764.
274        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  James Thompson, A.M., Tutor from 1762 to 1770.
  Joseph Periam, A.M., Tutor from 1765 to 1766.

  The following were elected Trustees during this period   :




   1761. Rev. Israel Reed, A.M., pastor of the Presbyterian church of       Bound-
brook, New Jersey, of the class of 1748.
  1761. David Bostwick, A.M., pastor of the Presbyterian church of New York.
  1761. Dr. John Redman, Physician, of Philadelphia.
  1761. Dr. Robert Harris,    Physician, of   New Brunswick, and afterwards of
Philadelphia.
  1763. Rev. Charles Beatty, A.M., successor of the Rev. William       Tennent as
pastor of the church of Neshaminy.
  1763. Hon. John Berrian, Judge of the Supreme Court of New Jersey.
  1764. Robert Ogden, Esq., of Elizabethtown, New Jersey.
  1764. Rev. Lambert De Ronde, of New York City.
  1765. Rev. John Rodgers, D.D., of St. George's, Delaware, and afterwards of
New York.
  1765. Dr. William Shippen, Professor of Anatomy, Philadelphia.




  Of one hundred and thirty graduates of the College who were students during the
presidency of Dr. Finley, fifty-nine became ministers of the gospel.
  The following named were among the graduates of the greatest note, viz.   :   of the
class of

  1761. Rev.    David Caldwell, D.D., President of the University of North
Carolina.

  1761. Hon. Thomas Henderson, A.M., member of the Continental Congress,
and also of the United States House of Representatives.
  1761. Rev. Nathan Ker, A.M., Goshen, New York.
  1761. Rev. David Rice, of Virginia and Kentucky.
  1762. Hon. Ebenezer Hazard, A.M., Postmaster-General of the United States.
  1762. Rev. James Manning, D.D., the first President of Rhode Island College,
now Brown University, and in 1786 a member of the Continental Congress.
  1762. Rev. Joseph Periam, a Tutor of the College, distinguished for his attain-
ments in mathematics, metaphysics, etc.
  1762. Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, a grandson of President Dickinson, and a
member of the Continental Congress.
  1762. Rev.    Hezekiah Smith, S.T.D., of Massachusetts, an eminent Baptist
preacher.
  1763. Rev. James Boyd, of Pennsylvania, a Trustee of the College.
  1763. Rev. Robert Cooper, D.D., of Pennsylvania.
  1763. David Cowell, A.M., M.D., of New Jersey, for two years the Senior
Physician and Surgeon of the United States Military Hospitals.
  1763. Rev. John Craighead, A.M., of Pennsylvania.     He raised a company
from the people of his charge, and joined the army in New Jersey under Wash-
ington.
  1763. Rev. Samuel Eakin, A.M., of West Jersey.
             ADMINISTRATION OF THE REV, SAMUEL FINLEY. 275

   1763. Rev. John Lathrop, D.D., of Massachusetts, a Fellow of Harvard College.
   1763. Hon. William Patterson, LL.D., a member of the Continental Con-
gress    ;
             also of the   Convention to form a constitution for the United States, Attor-
ney-General and Governor of             New Jersey, and a Justice of the United States
Supreme Court.
  1763. Hon. Tapping Reeve, LL.D., founder of the Litchfield Law School, and
Chief Justice of Connecticut.
  1763. Rev. John Simpson, A.M., a native of               New Jersey, but a resident of
North Carolina.
   1763. Rev. William          M. Tennent, D.D., of Abington, Pennsylvania, a Trustee
of the College.

   1763. Right        Rev. Thomas John Clagget, D.D., Bishop of the Diocese of
Maryland.
  1764. Rev. Wm. Foster, A.M., of Pennsylvania, a teacher of theology.
   1764. Rev. Joseph Smith, A.M., of Western Pennsylvania.
   1764. Hon. Thomas Tread well, a member of the U. S. House of Representa-
tives.

   1765. Rev. John Bacon, A.M., a member of the U. S.               House of Representa-
tives, andPresident of the Senate of Massachusetts.

  1765. Rev. Joel Benedict, D.D., of Connecticut, a Biblical, classical, and mathe-
matical scholar.

  1765. Colonel Wm. Davies, A.M., of Virginia, eldest son of President Davies.
Colonel Davies was an officer held in high esteem by Washington.
   1765. Rev. Jonathan Edwards, D.D., President of Union College, New York.
   1765. Robert Halsted, A.M., of Elizabethtown, New Jersey, a prominent
physician.
   1765.      Hon. Richard Hutson, a member of the Continental Congress, and Chan-
cellor of South Carolina.

   1765. Rev. Samuel Kirkland, A.M., a missionary to the Seneca tribe of Indians.
He contributed very much to the founding of Hamilton Academy, now Hamilton
College.
   1765. Robert Ogden, A.M., Esq., of Elizabeth, New Jersey, a counsellor-at-law.
   1765. Ebenezer Pemberton, LL.D , an eminent classical teacher.
   1765. David Ramsay, M.D., of South Carolina, a member of the Continental
                        " The American
Congress, and author of                 Revolution," and other works.
   1765. Rev. Theodore Dirck Romeyn, D.D., of New Jersey, Professorof Theology
in the Dutch Reformed College.

   1765. Hon. Jacob Rush, LL.D., Chief Justice of Pennsylvania.
   1766. Rev. Jacob          Van Artsdalen, A.M., of New Jersey, a Trustee of the Col-
lege.
   1766. Hon. Waightstill Avery, A.M., Attorney-General of North Carolina.
   1766. Rev. Hezekiah Balch, D.D., President of Greenville College, Tennessee.
   1766. Hon. Oliver Ellsworth, LL.D., Chief Justice of the United States,            and
a member of the Convention to form a constitution for the United States.

   1766.       David Howell, LL.D., a member of the Continental Congress, and Pro-
fessor ofLaw in Brown University.
   1766. Rev. David McCalla, D.D.,of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and South Carolina.
2^6
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

   1766. John McPherson, A.M.,   Aid-de-Camp of General Montgomery at the
attack on Quebec.

  1766. Hon. Luther Martin, LL.D., Attorney-General of Maryland, and .a mem-
ber of the Convention to form the United States Constitution.
  1766. Nathaniel Niles, A.M., Judge of the   Supreme Court of Vermont, and a
member of Congress from that State.
  1766. Rev. James Power, D.D., one of the. pioneer preachers of Western Penn-
sylvania.
                                                                         in Boston,
  1766. Rev. Isaac Skillman, D.D., pastor of a Baptist church,   first

Massachusetts, and then in Salem, New Jersey.
  1766. Micah Townsend, A.M., Secretary of the State of Vermont.
  1766. Rev. John Woodhull, D.D., an eminent minister and teacher of theology,
and for forty-four years a Trustee of the College.
                       CHAPTER XIII.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY, D.D., FIFTH PRESIDENT
           OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  DR. FINLEY was a native of Ireland. At the time of his birth,
1715, his parents resided in the county of Armagh.      In 1734
they came  to America, and  arrived at Philadelphia on the 28th
of September.   The family settled in West Jersey. Before
leaving Ireland he began to prepare for the gospel ministry     ;


and with this end in view he made considerable progress in
classical learning, in which   he afterwards became a proficient.
After his arrival in this country he devoted several years to
study, giving special attention to theology. It is thought, and

it has even been affirmed, that he completed his studies at the


Log College. But of this there is no certain evidence. It is
rather a matter of conjecture, founded upon the well-known
facts that   his   religious views were fully in accord with the
teachings of that school; that he labored assiduously and boldly
in support of the measures adopted by the Tennents and their
friends for the promotion of religion   and that at this time the
                                        ;




Log College   was  the  only preparatory school for the ministry
within the bounds of the American Presbyterian Church. But
these facts do not determine this question, as he may have pur-
sued his studies privately under some approved divine.
   He was licensed to preach the gospel by the Presbytery of
New Brunswick on the 5th day of August, 1740, and was or-
dained by the same Presbytery on the I3th of October, 1742.
His preaching was attended with great success, especially in
Pennsylvania and in the lower counties of New Jersey. In 1743,
calls for his ministerial services were made by the churches of

Cohansey and Deerfield, New Jersey, and from Milford, Con-
necticut.   The Presbytery sent him to Milford " with allowance
                                                         277
278
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

he should preach for other places thereabouts when Providence
may open a door for him." Being at Milford, he went by re-
quest to preach for the Second Society in New Haven. As
this Society or Church had not been recognized either by the
civil authority or by the New Haven Association, it was con-
trary to a recently enacted law of the Province for any one to
preach for said Society, although it had been organized in
conformity with the usages of the Congregational churches.
Whether Mr. Finley had any knowledge of this prohibitory
enactment     is   not known.   He accepted the invitation, and on
his way to the place of meeting     he was arrested and confined.
This occurred on the 5th of September, 1743, and on the nth
of the same month he was presented by the grand jury, and
was sentenced to be transported out of the Colony as a vagrant,
and under this sentence he was removed from the Province. In
the following month he petitioned the Colonial Assembly to
review the case, but his petition was refused. This of course
                                                  .




prevented his going again to Milford.
  For six months he preached as a stated supply for a new
congregation in Philadelphia, of which the Rev. Gilbert Ten-
nent became the first pastor.
  In June, 1744, Mr. Finley accepted a call to the church at
Nottingham, Maryland, at which place he continued in the
faithful   discharge of his pastoral duties for seventeen years.
Here he established an academy, which acquired a great repu-
tation, and one well deserved. Among his pupils at Notting-
ham were Governor Martin, of North Carolina, Governor Henry,
of Maryland, Dr. Benjamin Rush, his brother, Judge Jacob
Rush, Ebenezer Hazard, Esq., Colonel John Bayard, and the
Rev. Dr. William M. Tennent, of Pennsylvania, the Rev. Dr.
McWhorter, of Newark, New Jersey, and the Rev. Dr. James
Waddell, of Virginia.
  He was, says        Dr. Sprague, an   accomplished teacher, and
among his pupils were some of the very best scholars of the
day. He boarded most of them in his own house and at his
table.     He often indulged in a vein of pleasantry with them.
  In the     summer of 1745, Mr. Finley, in company with the
Rev. Gilbert Tennent, and by appointment of the conjunct
             MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY.                               279

Presbyteries of New Brunswick and of New Castle, waited upon
Governor Gooch, of Virginia, with the view to repel certain
insinuations and charges made against the Rev. John Roan, a
member of the New Castle Presbytery, who by order of his Pres-
bytery had spent some months in Virginia in missionary labors.
Mr. Rowan's zeal and success, and perhaps some unguarded
expressions, stirred up the wrath of his opponents, who hesi-
                                                       "
tated not to charge him and the New Lights generally with

reflecting   upon and vilifying the Established Religion," and
who were so far successful that they enlisted in their move-
ment against Mr. Roan the influence of that eminently candid
and liberal-minded Governor. Messrs. Tennent and Finley
were kindly received by Governor Gooch, who gave them per-
mission to preach in Hanover. They continued there a week,
and " much good was done by their ministry. The people of
God were refreshed, and several careless sinners were awakened."
(See report of their visit by Mr. Samuel Morris, in Foote's
"
    Sketches of Virginia.")
    Upon the death of President Davies, Dr. Finley was unan-
imously chosen his successor.   Davies's own opinion of Fin-

ley's qualifications for the office        is
                                                apparent from the following
extracts.  Writing to the Rev. Mr. Cowell, of Trenton, a Trus-
tee of the College, in reference to the choice of a President, he

says:
  " I recommend Mr.
                        Finley, from long and intimate acquaintance with him, as
the best qualified person, in the compass of my knowledge, in America,     incom-
parably better qualified than myself.  Though the want of some superficial accom-
plishments for empty popularity may keep him in obscurity for some little time, his
hidden worth, in a few months, or years at most, will blaze out to the satisfaction
and even astonishment of all candid men.        A disappointment of this kind will
certainly be of service to the College."


     The letter from which this extract is made was written after
Mr. Davies had declined the appointment of President, and
also after he had refused to act as Vice-President for six
months.
     On another occasion Davies speaks of Finley as " the best of
men, and my favorite friend."
     The College flourished greatly under his administration of its
2 8o        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

affairs, and he himselfenjoyed in a very high degree the confi-
dence and respect of the Trustees, as is evident from their resolu-
tions and minutes, and still more from the liberal provision they
made for his support when his protracted illness, which ended
in death, rendered necessary an increased expenditure of funds.
His reputation was not limited to the Colonies.                        He was well
known to not a few of the prominent Presbyterian and Dissent-
ing ministers in Great Britain, with some of whom he kept up
a friendly correspondence. Such was the opinion which they
entertained of him as a scholar and a divine that, without his

knowledge, they procured for him from the University of Glas-
gow the degree of Doctor in Divinity. This is said to have been
the second time that this degree was ever conferred upon an
American divine by a British university, the Rev. Dr. Francis
Allison, of Philadelphia, being the first to receive this honor.
  The diligence and earnestness with which Dr. Finley devoted
himself to the discharge of his official duties, after a few years
sensibly and most seriously affected his health.  As mentioned
in the sketch of his administration, he went to Philadelphia for
medical advice and attendance, and he died in that city on the
I
     /th of July, 1766, in the fifty-first year of his age.
     " When he first
                        applied to the physicians in Philadelphia," observes Dr. Green,
"he had no apprehension that his dissolution was so near as it afterwards ap-
peared, for he observed to his friends, If my work is done, I am ready.  I do
                                             '




not desire to live a day longer than I can work for God.        But I cannot think this
is   the case as yet.    God has much more for me to do before I depart hence.'
     " About a month before his death his
                                             physicians informed him that his disease
appeared incurable. Upon which he expressed his perfect resignation to the
Divine will, and from that time till his death he was employed in setting his house
in order.     Upon being told by one of his physicians that according to present ap-
pearances he could live but a few days longer, he lifted up his eyes, and exclaimed,
                             "
1
    Then
       welcome Lord        Jesus.'


      All his remarks and all his conversations with his friends in-
dicated a tranquil and even a joyous state of mind in view of
his departure.  He had no doubt as to his personal interest in
Christ, and        he felt assured that, for him, to die would be gain.
Upon seeing a member of the Second Presbyterian Church in
                     "
Philadelphia he said, I have often preached and prayed among
you, my dear sir, and the doctrines I preached to you are now
               MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL F1XLEY.                                2 8l


my support, and, blessed be God, they are without a flaw. May
the Lord bless and preserve your church    He designs good for
                                                       !




it yet, I trust." To a person from Princeton he said, " Give my
love to the people at Princeton, and tell them                   I   am going to
die, and that I am not afraid to die."
  On the day before his death, " with a pleasing smile and with
                                       '

a strong voice, he cried out, Oh, I shall triumph over every foe                       !




The Lord hath given- me the victory! I exult! I triumph !'"
And he did triumph over death, and, committing his spirit to
his Lord, he         fell   asleep, in the assured    hope of a happy resur-
rection.
   Dr. Finley's remains were interred in Philadelphia by the side
of his friend the Rev. Dr. Gilbert Tennent, the heat of the weather
                                         His funeral sermon
not permitting their removal to Princeton.
was preached by the Rev. Dr. Richard Treat, D.D., of Abing-
ton, Pennsylvania, a Trustee of the College.    large number   A
of the College students attended the funeral, and he was car-
ried to his burial by eight members of the Senior class. The
Trustees caused a cenotaph to be erected to his memory in the
graveyard at Princeton, in a line with and nigh to the tombs of
his predecessors in the office of President.
  Ebenezer Hazard, Esq., of Philadelphia, formerly Postmaster-
General of the United States, and, as before mentioned, a pupil
of Dr. Finley's at the Nottingham Academy, gives this testi-
mony to his honored preceptor               :



  " He was remarkable for sweetness of
                                           temper and politeness of behavior. He
was given to hospitality, charitable without ostentation, exemplary in the discharge
of all relative duties, and in all things showing himself a pattern of all good works.
As a divine he was a Calvinist in sentiment.    His sermons were not hasty produc-
tions, but filled    with good sense and well-digested sentiment, expressed in lan-
guage pleasing to men of science, yet perfectly intelligible by the illiterate. They
were calculated to inform the ignorant, to alarm the careless and secure, and to-
edify and comfort the faithful."


  Another pupil, the late Rev. Dr. John Woodhull, of Mon-
mouth, New Jersey, thus speaks of him in a communication
written at the request of Dr. Green              :




  " Dr.
        Finley was a man of small stature, and of a round and ruddy countenance.
In the pulpit he was always solemn and sensible, and sometimes glowing with
fervor.    His learning was very extensive.     Every branch of study taught in the
     VOL. i.    19
2 82     HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

College appeared to be familiar to him. Among other things he taught Latin,
Greek, and Hebrew in the Senior year. He was highly respected and greatly
beloved by the students, and had very little difficulty in governing the College.
He died in Philadelphia, of a complaint in the liver, and requested to be carried
to the grave by some of the Senior class.   This was done accordingly, and I was
one of those who were bearers of his corpse."

   In early life President Finley manifested a fondness for public
disputation, and sometimes an undue warmth and earnestness in
maintaining his views. But mature age and Christian experi-
ence corrected this tendency to harsh judgment and expression;
and he became an acknowledged model of courteous deport-
ment and sweetness of temper, a man greatly beloved.
   Soon after he was licensed he went within the bounds of the
Donegal Presbytery, in Pennsylvania, and gave his countenance
to the Rev. Alexander Craighead in his disorderly opposition to
the Presbytery, by taking part in reading to the people Mr. C.'s
defence of himself.       January 20, 1741, he preached, at Notting-
ham,     Maryland, a sermon on       Matthew xii. 27, 28: "If I by
Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them
out ?"       This sermon was published under the title of " Christ
Triumphing and Satan Raging," and was reprinted both at Bos-
ton and at London. He also wrote a letter in commendation
of Mr. Whitefield, which was published.
   Dr. Finley's other publications were            :




  "A Refutation of Mr. Thomson's Sermon on the Doctrine of Conviction," 1743.
A sermon on 2 Thessalonians    1, 12, against the Moravians, being the substance
                              ii.   1

of several sermons preached in Philadelphia, showing the Strength, Nature, and

Symptoms of Delusion, 1743.    "A   Charitable Plea for the Speechless," 1747,
and a Vindication of it, in 1748.  A sermon preached at the ordination of the
Rev. John Rodgers, at St. George's, Delaware, 1749. A sermon on the death of
the Rev. Samuel Blair, 1751.  A sermon from 2 Cor. x. 4, preached at Newark,
New Jersey, before the Synod of New York, 1754. A sermon entitled "The
Curse of Meroz, or the Danger of Neutrality in the Cause of God and our Country,"
1757.    A sermon on the death of President Davies, 1761.   A sermon preached at
the funeral of the Rev. Gilbert Tennent, D.D., 1764.


   A few years before the publication of his " Charitable Plea
for the Speechless,"        and not long after his licensure by the
Presbytery of New Brunswick, Dr. Finley engaged in a public
debate on the mode and subjects of baptism with the Rev. Abel
Morgan, Jr., of Middletown, New Jersey, a Baptist preacher
            MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY.                  283

of much note in those days.    The debate was begun at Cohan-
sey, in   West Jersey, and resumed at Cape May, at which latter
place there was at this time "a powerful revival of religion, in
                            "
which," says Dr. Sprague, the labors of Baptist and Presby-
terian ministers were to a great extent intermingled." At this

time, as we learn from the Rev. Richard Webster, two elders and
six members left the Presbyterian Church for the Baptist. To
the Charitable Plea Mr. Morgan replied in a pamphlet entitled
"
    Anti-Pedo-Rantism, or Mr. Samuel Finley's Charitable Plea
for   the   Speechless examined and refuted, the         Baptism of
Believers maintained, and the Mode of it by Immersion vindi-
cated."  To this Dr. Finley published a rejoinder in vindica-
tion of his plea, to which Mr. Morgan published a reply, and
this ended their discussion.   (See Sprague's "Annals of the
American Pulpit," vol. vi. page 34, art. Abel Morgan, Jr.)
  Dr. Finley was twice married.        His first wife was Miss
Sarah Hall, whose mother was the second wife of the Rev.
Gilbert Tennent. She is spoken of by President Green as a

lady of amiable character, who was truly a helpmeet to her hus-
band, and by Dr. Sprague as a lady of rare excellence. By her
Dr. Finley had eight children. She died in 1760, previously to
his leaving Nottingham.     The year following he married Miss
Ann Clarkson, whose father, Matthew Clarkson, had been an
eminent merchant in New York, and who was a lineal descend-
ant of David Clarkson, B.D., one of the two thousand ministers

ejected for non-conformity in England in 1662.      Miss Clarkson
was also a lady distinguished for her piety.
  Dr. Finley's son Ebenezer Finley was graduated at Nassau
Hall in 1772, and resided in Charleston, South Carolina. By
some persons he has been confounded with his brother James
E. B. Finley, a physician of Charleston.   William Perroneau
Finley, LL.D., a grandson of President Finley, was also gradu-
ated at this College, in 1820, with great distinction.   He studied
law, and he is now (1873) engaged in the practice of his profes-
sion. For several years he was President of Charleston College.
Professor Morse, so well     known for his connection with the
electro-magnetic telegraph, is a grandson of Dr. Finley's daugh-
ter, Mrs. Breese, wife of Samuel Breese, Esq., of New Jersey.
284   HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  The cenotaph erected to the memory of President Finley by
the Trustees of the College has the following inscription        :




                            Memorise Sacrum
                  Reverend! Samuelis Finley, S.T.D.
                        Collegii Neo-Csesariensis
                                    Presidis,
             Armachse in Hibernia natus, A.D. MDCCXV.
             In Americam migravit, Anno MDCCXXXIV.
            Sacris ordinibus initiatus est, Anno MDCCXLIII,

                       apud Novum Brunsvicum,
                          Neo-Gesariensium.
               Ecclesiae Nottinghami, Pensylvaniensium,
        Munus pastorale suscepit, XIV. o Kal. Julii, MDCCXLIV;
                     Ibique, Academic celeberrimse
                               diu pnefuit.

              Designatus Prseses Collegii Neo-Caesariensis,
                  Officium inivit, Id. Julii MDCCLXI.
                      Tandem, dilectus, veneratus,
                           Omnibus flendus
                     Mofti occubuit, Philadelphia,
                XV. o Kal. Sextilis, A.D. MDCCLXVI.
                       Artibus literisque excultus.
                      Prse cseteris prsecipue enituit.
                       Rerum divinarum scientia.
                      Studio divinae gloriae flagrans
                             summis opibus
                 Ad veram Religionem promovendam,
                            et in   concionibus,
                         et in sermone familiar!

                        Operam semper navabat
                    Patientia, modestia, mansuetudo
                              Miranda
                     animo moribusque enituerunt,
               Ob charitatem, observantiam, vigilantiam,
                    erga juvenes fidei sure mandates
                                      fuit

                              insignissimus
                   Moribus ingenuis, pietate sincera,
                         Vixit omnibus dilectus,
                          Moriens triumphavit.
                            CHAPTER XIV.
THE INTERVAL BETWEEN THE DEATH OF DR. FINLEY AND THE
 ACCESSION OF DR. WITHERSPOON, FROM JULY 18, 1766, TO
  AUGUST      17,   1768.



  DURING Dr. Finley's last illness, his death being apprehended,
the Trustees, at a meeting held on the 25th of June, made
provision for the government of the College by appointing
                            "
the Rev. William Tennent      to act in the room and stead of
President Finley," and by investing him "with the power and
authority of the President."
  The Board had their next meeting on Wednesday, the 25th
of September, the day of the annual   Commencement, and ad-
mitted the members of the Senior class, thirty-one in number, to
their first degree in the Arts, the Rev. Elihu Spencer presiding
and conferring the degrees. The usual exercises on such occa-
sions were attended to, and also the ordinary routine of busi-
ness, but the Trustees thought              it   best to defer the election of
a President, for which they appointed a special meeting to be
held on Wednesday, the ipth of the ensuing November. Mr.
Jonathan Edwards, son of the                 late   President Edwards, was
chosen a Tutor of the College.
   In reference to the salary of the President, they adopted the
following minute:
  " Whereas
              sundry weighty and important reasons have induced this Board to
augment the late worthy president's salary from time to time to the sum of 400,
but inasmuch as the occasion of the late necessary augmentation is removed, and
the present low state of the College funds will not allow this Board to continue
that salary for the future in its present circumstances, it is
                                                               agreed, therefore, that
the stated salary of the next president shall be .250, with the usual perquisites."


  Having met on the day appointed, they elected the Rev. Dr.
John Witherspoon, of which the following is the record                       :




                                                                           285
2 86          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
     "
    It having pleased a holy and wise God to remove by death the late Reverend

and worthy Dr. Samuel Finley from the Presidentship of the College, the Board
proceeded to the choice of another to succeed him in that office; when, after
mature deliberation, the Reverend Dr. Witherspoon, of Paisley, Scotland, was
duly elected as the Charter directs, nemine contradicente ; and it is ordered, that a
copy of this minute be enclosed and transmitted to the said Dr. Witherspoon, in
a letter, signed     by the President, from this Board, praying his acceptance of the
           And it is further ordered, that a letter, in like manner, be transmitted
said office.
to Richard Stockton, Esq., one of the members of this Board, now in London,

enclosing the above to his care; and requesting his personal application to Dr.
Witherspoon, to solicit his acceptance, and informing him that this Board will de-
fray his, the said Mr. Stockton's, expenses in his journey to Scotland for the said
purpose ; and also that another letter, to be signed in like manner, be transmitted
to Mr.   Dennys De Berdt, Merchant in London, enclosing a duplicate of the letter
to   Dr. Witherspoon, in case the said Mr. Stockton should not happen to be in
London, requesting the said Mr. De Berdt to forward the same       ;
                                                                       and that he would
be pleased to use his influence and interest for the same purpose.
     "
         Ordered, That Messrs. Spencer, Redman, and Shippen do prepare draughts
of said letters, to be laid before this Board to-morrow morning.
  "             That in case of Dr.                            of the
         Resolved,                      Witherspoon's acceptance           Presidentship
of this Colfege, the sum of one hundred guineas be allowed to defray the expenses
of his removal and voyage ; and that his salary do      commence on the day of his
arrival in North America."


  On the following day the committee charged with this duty
submitted drafts of letters to Dr. Witherspoon, Richard Stock-
ton, Esq., and Mr. De Berdt, which were read and approved.
     was then ordered, that these letters be transcribed and
         It

signed by the President of the Board (for the time being), Mr.
William Peartree Smith who was requested to despatch the
                                    ;



same by the first vessel bound from New York to London.
All which was done, as appears from a report made by Mr.
Smith at the next meeting of the Board.
         Mr. Jonathan Edwards, elected a Tutor at the                   last   meeting
of the Board, appeared, and was qualified in accordance with
the charter.
  The Rev. William Tennent, who (both before and after the
decease of President Finley) had discharged the duties of
President of the College pro temporc, greatly to the satisfaction
of the Board, was again requested to take upon himself the
charge and burden of this office until the services of a perma-
nent President were secured; and he having complied with this
request was qualified as directed by the charter.
      INTERVAL BETWEEN JULY, 1766, AND AUGUST, 1768.                              2 8/


   At this meeting there was begun a most important negotia-
tion in reference to the establishment of sundry professorships
in the College, and the selection of the incumbents from the

two parties in the Presbyterian Church which, before the re-
union of the Synods of New York and of Philadelphia, had
been known under the designations of Old Side and New Side.
  The first minute relative to this business is in these words:
   " Messrs.
              George Bryan, John Johnson, William Allison, James Meas, and
Samuel Purviance, from Philadelphia, waited upon the Board, and presented a
petition signed by some gentlemen of Lewistown, in Pennsylvania; and also a
letter signed by twenty-six gentlemen of Philadelphia, requesting and recommend-

ing, among other things, the establishment of several Professorships in the College.
  "
      Ordered, That the said papers do lie on the table for further mature considera-
tion."


  The following remarks on this overture are copied from the
Notes of President Green, and they give within a comparatively
narrow compass a clear view of the ends sought to be attained
by the respective parties. On one point, however, the writer
dissents from his venerated preceptor, viz., as to the origin of
the College, which was originally established, not by the Synod
of New York, or under its auspices, but by the leading ministers
of the Presbytery of New York                  :




  " In order to understand
                              fully the nature of a negotiation of which this minute
gives the first intimation, but which will afterwards be found to have occupied the
most serious attention of the Board, it will be necessary to recollect what has been
said in regard to the rivalSynods of New York and Philadelphia; and that the
College was the offspring and favorite child of the former of these bodies. It has
been cursorily mentioned that the schism was healed in the year 1757, and that
the two   Synods were again united. This, notwithstanding much of the spirit
which had produced the separation still remained, and indeed was not extinct till
many years after this period. The cause and peculiarities of the Synod of Phila-
delphia had been denominated the old side, and those of the New York Synod the
new side ; and these shibboleths of party remained long after the formal union of
the Synods.   It is hoped that none of the acrimony with which
                                                                  they were once
used any longer exists   ;
                             but they still serve as convenient designations of parties
which once divided the Presbyterian Church.
  " The
          College of New Jersey, notwithstanding the adverse circumstances which it
experienced in the death of four Presidents in less than nine years, had, on the whole,
been advancing in reputation ever since its establishment and under Dr. Finley had
                                                            ;



probably risen higher than      at any preceding period.   At his death it was unques-
tionably the most reputable institution of which the Presbyterians could boast.   This
circumstance, it is believed, induced the old side party to seek an alliance with it;
2 88        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

and if a cordial alliance could have been formed, it would, without doubt, have
been an event highly favorable for the College, and for the Presbyterian Church
at large.    That some of the leading men in each party hoped that this might be
effected, and honestly labored to bring it about, there  is
                                                            good reason to believe.
But there was still, too much of party views and feelings to admit of such an issue.
The whole transaction bears marks of jealous caution and diplomatic arrangement
on both sides. The College being now without a President, and known to be in
great want of funds, the opportunity was thought to be favorable for obtaining a
participation, by the old side party, in the whole government and instruction of the
institution, in consideration of the pecuniary aid which that party could afford to
give.     But the Board of Trustees proceeded, as we have seen, to elect a President,
even before they opened a negotiation    ;
                                           and with a design, it is believed, to fore-
close all interference or propositions in regard to the choice of that officer.    On
the other hand, such representations were speedily made in Scotland of the state
of the College as were calculated to induce Dr. Witherspoon to refuse the Presi-

dency, and which actually had that effect till his misapprehensions were removed
by an agent of the Board. The writer has in his hands the unquestionable evidence
of this fact, although it does not appear in the records of the Trustees."   (See Dr.
Green's " Notes.")

   Of the precise character of this evidence the venerable writer
gives us no intimation but his positive declaration is conclusive
                               ;



as to the existence of such evidence at the time he penned this
statement*
   On the next morning, November 20, the Trustees continued
their sessions, and in the minutes for that                  day the following
record occurs        :



  " A letter was delivered into this
                                       Board, signed by several gentlemen of Balti-
more, Maryland, on the subject-matter of those presented yesterday.
  "
    Ordered, That the said letter do lie with the others on the table for further
consideration."
   "
        Resolved, That Messrs. Woodruff, Tennent, Spencer, and Rodgers be a com-
mittee forthwith to wait upon the gentlemen from Philadelphia who have signified
it to be their desire to meet a committee of this Board in order to a free conference

on the subject-matter of sundry letters, &c., which have been delivered by them;
and that the said committee do report the result of the said conference to this
Board."
  " The committee
                    appointed to wait upon the gentlemen from Philadelphia, being
returned, reported, That they had a full and free conference together upon the
subject-matter of the petitions and letters presented by those gentlemen. That the
said gentlemen observed that the proposals made to the Trustees being upon the

footing that the President's chair was vacant, they were disconcerted in their gen-


  * It is
          probable that "the unquestionable evidence" mentioned by Dr. Green
was contained in a letter from the Rev. Charles Beatty to Rev. Dr. Treat, of
Abington, Pennsylvania.       (See sketch of Dr. Witherspoon's Life.)
          INTERVAL BETWEEN JULY, 1766, AND AUGUST, 1768. 289

eral plan by the election of Dr. Witherspoon to the Presidentship before their pro-

posals were presented ; that the said plan being thereby altered, they
                                                                         were not
authorized to determine absolutely what would be done hereafter by their con-
stituents respecting the general object they had in        view; that nevertheless they
were truly desirous that some               method might be taken to complete the
                                    effectual

proposed design.        That a proposal was made by the said committee, viz., that on
the supposition of the nomination of two gentlemen for Professorships, to wit, the
Rev. Messrs. Blair* and McDowell, on the condition that money could be raised
by the friends of this Institution to support them, Whether their constituents would
be satisfied, and they would undertake to promote a subscription for their support       ;


to which the said gentlemen replied, That however desirous they were to accom-

plish so excellent a design, they would not at present engage for the future conduct
of their constituents."
  " The
              Board, taking in mature consideration the above Report, came to the follow-
ing resolution     :


  " Whereas it is an                                                     and the strictest
                           object of their greatest concern that union
harmony among all the friends and patrons of religion and sound literature might
be promoted by every proper method, and that this Institution may have every
possible advantage of increasing its Reputation and advancing the cause of Learn-
ing And as there appears reason to expect great and happy consequences both to
      ;


the interest of religion and of this Seminary from putting into execution the gen-
eral design of the proposals made, they will gladly do everything in their power to

accomplish the said end and accordingly declare themselves greatly desirous that
                             ;


a sufficiency of moneys by subscriptions or otherwise might be obtained to accom-
plish this noble design ;     and are cheerfully willing to join in any particular method
that can be devised for raising the necessary sums.        For though this Board would
gladly proceed to the election of Professors without delay, were there funds suffi-
cient to support such an additional expense    yet they judge it by no means expe-
                                                  ;


dient to take that step before they have a certain medium for their support."


   The above extracts comprise all the action on this subject at
this meeting of the Board.
  The Rev. John Blair, of Fagg's Manor, Pennsylvania, was
chosen a Trustee of the College, in the room of the Rev. John
Light or Leydt, pastor of the Dutch Reformed Church, New
Brunswick, resigned.

  *
          Knowing that some of the Trustees, and probably a majority, were desirous,
even at this time, to appoint Mr. Blair Professor of Divinity in the College, the Rev.
James Caldwell, of Elizabethtown, the Rev. Alexander McWhorter, of Newark,
neither, at that time, a Trustee of the College, and Mr. Jonathan Edwards, Jr.,
then a Tutor in the College, were earnestly in favor of having Dr. Hopkins ap-
pointed instead of Mr. Blair. They were of the opinion that the requisite funds to
sustain Mr. Blair could not be had from the friends of the College, and this en-

couraged these gentlemen to make a strenuous effort to secure the appointment of
Dr. Hopkins.   (See letter of Mr. Caldwell, in the Bellamy Manuscripts.)
20,0    HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  As the Grammar School connected with the College was " likely to become
chargeable to the College funds," the Board resolved that the teacher (Mr. Avery)
might continue the school in the College, on his own account, if he thought it
expedient but that they would no longer be responsible for its support.
          ;


  " Mr. Samuel Breese, one of the Executors of the Estate of Dr.
                                                                 Finley, deceased,
requesting an order of this Board upon the Treasurer, for the payment
                                                                            of the

salary which became due to the said Dr. Finley at the time of his death,
                                                                         the Clerk

is directed immediately to make out an order on Mr. Sergeant for the payment

of whatever  sum remained due to the said Dr. Finley as his salary at the time
of his death, together with the interest of the same from the day of his decease ;
and that he take a discharge of the same from the Executor of the Estate."


  The next meeting of the Board took place on Wednesday,
the 3Oth of September, 1767, the day of the annual Commence-
ment.
   After the exercises usual on such occasions, eleven candidates
were admitted to the first degree in the Arts.
   The next day, October I, the Board met again; sixteen
Trustees being present. The Hon. Edward Shippen, of Lan-
caster, Pennsylvania, one of the Trustees named in the second
charter of the College, tendered his resignation, for the reason
that "he finds himself incapable, through growing infirmity
and distant residence, of giving attendance." His resignation
was accepted.
                                "
  Mr. William Peartree Smith communicated a letter to this
Board from the Rev. Dr. John Witherspoon, wherein that gen-
tleman is pleased to decline an acceptance of the Presidentship
of this College, to which he was elected in November last."
   "
    Mr. Halsey, eldest Tutor of this College, now thought fit to
resign his office and requesting testimonials in his favor from
                        ;



the Trustees, It is ordered, That an ample certificate be made
out, to be signed by the Clerk in the name of this Board and
sealed with the Corporation seal, certifying the said Mr. Hal-

sey's faithful services and good conduct during his Tutorship
                                                              in

the College, with            Recommendation of him as a Gentleman of
Genius, Learning, and real Merit."
  The Rev. William Tennent, the President />n? tern., submitted
the draft of sundry laws for the better regulation and order
of the College      ;
                            which were   read, considered,     amended, and
unanimously adopted.
       INTERVAL BETWEEN JULY, 7766, AND AUGUST, 1768.                        2 Ql

  The first one empowered the officers of the College to ex-
amine the classes at any time of the year, at their discretion.
  The second prohibited the students from taking any part in
the choice of orators for Commencement and other public
exhibitions.
  The third was a law to prevent damage to the several rooms
and apartments of the College and to the furniture of the same.
In accord with this last regulation, Mr. James Thompson, one
of the Tutors, was appointed " Inspector of the Rooms," and
was allowed five pounds per annum for this service.
   The committee, Messrs. Woodruff and Ogden, to examine
                                                                  "
into the general state of the College funds, reported                 that they
find the sum total in ,the hands of the Treasurer, in Bonds,
Notes, &c., to amount to the sum of   28 15. 3.1, of which they
find    only   950, or thereabouts, to be at present under actual
improvement at interest."
   Soon after the opening of their session this day, Mr. Stockton
mentioned to the Board that there were several gentlemen from
Philadelphia now in town, viz., Messrs. George Bryan, William
Allison, John Chevalier, John Boyd, and John Wallace, who
had informed him that they had something to offer to this Cor-
poration, and were desirous of being heard.     Mr. Stockton was
accordingly requested immediately to wait upon those gentle-
men and inform them that the Trustees were now ready to hear
them.
  "
       The Philadelphia gentlemen, being introduced by Mr. Stock-
ton, begged leave to remind the Trustees that they had the last
year presented sundry papers and letters containing proposals
relative to the establishment of a Faculty in this College that          ;


their constituents were still very desirous that the general plan
should be carried into execution if the circumstances of the
College would possibly admit of it and prayed that the same
                                            ;




might be reconsidered. The said gentlemen were then assured
that this Board would       come to some determination thereon as
soon as possible."

  "
    Ordered, That the several letters and proposals above mentioned be read and
maturely considered; which were read and considered accordingly."
292
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
  "
    Resolved, That Messrs. Stockton, Ogden, and [Dr. W.] Shippen be a com-
mittee to confer more fully with those gentlemen on the subject-matter of said

proposals."

   This committee had a conference with the delegates from
Philadelphia, andmade the following report to the Board,

   " That
          they find those gentlemen and their constituents still heartily desirous of
concurring with the Trustees of this College in the establishment and support of a
Faculty, and promising to unite their utmost endeavors to raise the necessary funds
to carry the same into speedy execution ; that the said   gentlemen being asked by
the Committee whether the appointment of all or any of the particular persons to

Professorships in their proposals named and recommended was intended as a Term
of their acceding to and assisting in the establishment proposed, replied, That it
was not the intention to make the appointment of any of the particular persons
named by their constituents a term of the proposed Union but that any other gen-
                                                             ;


tlemen who might be deemed qualified for their offices, and indiscriminately chosen
without regard to party distinctions, would be acceptable to them."
   " The Board
                having taken the whole into mature consideration were unanimously
of the opinion that the constitution of a Faculty to consist of well-qualified Profes-
sors in the several branches of Academical Science to be chosen without regard to

any little party differences would greatly subserve the interests of Religion and
Learning in this Seminary, and would tend to the better and more perfect instruc-
tion and government in the same.     And it was accordingly resolved, that in pur-
suance of said plan, the choice of a Faculty to consist of Professors in some of the
most essential parts of literature be entered upon to-morrow morning."
  " October                        Met according to adjournment, and present as
               2, 9 o'clock A.M.

yesterday.    The Trustees having thought proper, pursuant to their resolution of yes-
terday, to enter upon the choice of a Faculty, to consist of Professors in the most
necessary branches of education in the College, did, in the first place, proceed to
the appointment of a Professor of Divinity and Moral Philosophy when, after
                                                                        ;


mature deliberation, the Rev. Mr. John Blair, of Fog's [Fagg's] Manor, in Penn-
sylvania, and one of the    members of this Board, was chosen to that office.     Ad-
journed to 3 o'clock P.M.
  "The Trustees now proceeded to the choice of a Professor of Mathematics and
Natural Philosophy, when Dr. Hugh Williamson, of Philadelphia, was duly elected
to that office ;   and Mr. Jonathan Edwards, now a Tutor in this College, was also
duly chosen to the Professorship of Languages and Logic.
   " The Rev. Dr.
                   John Witherspoon having thought fit to decline the invitation of
this Board to the Presidentship of the College, the Trustees proceeded to the choice

of a President to succeed the reverend and worthy Dr. Finley, deceased.   After
mature deliberation, the Rev. Mr. Samuel Blair, of Boston, in New England, was
duly elected President of this College, and also Professor of Rhetoric and Meta-
physics.     Nemine contradicente.
  " Mr.
         George Bryan, of Philadelphia [one of the delegates from that city to con-
fer with the Board], was unanimously chosen a Trustee, in the room of Edward

Shippen, Esq., resigned."
      INTERVAL BETWEEN JULY, 1766, AND AUGUST, 1768. 293
  "
    Voted, That the sum of one hundred pounds proclamation be allowed to the
Rev. Mr. William Tennent in consideration of his services to this College as Vice-
President /r0 tent, from the igth of November last to the present Commencement;
and ordered, That the Treasurer pay unto the said Mr. Tennent the said sum of
;ioo out of the first moneys that he may have in his hands.
  "
    Voted, That the annual salaries of the President and Professors, now chosen, to
commence from the time they shall respectively enter upon their several offices,
shall be as follows   :




      To the President and Professor of Rhetoric and Metaphysics              .   200
          "   Professor of Divinity and Moral Philosophy   .            .     .
                                                                                  175
          "   Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy           .
                                                                              .150
          "   Professor of Languages and Logic           .   .     .    .
                                                                              .125
  " The Trustees
                  having now, pursuant to the plan proposed, nominated and
chosen several gentlemen of reputation in the literary world and undoubted skill
in those branches of science to which they are designed, do find, that notwith-

standing they have annexed the most moderate salaries to the respective offices,
the present state of the College revenues renders it impossible for them to provide
the sum total of the said salaries, and that it is therefore not in their power    imme-
diately to invite and introduce together the four Professors elect to the actual
execution of their offices, as a Faculty, even should they all acquiesce in their
present election, which is yet an uncertainty and as four Instructors are imme-
                                                     ;



diately requisite to carry on the business of the College, it is resolved to continue
the present constitution under a Vice-President and three Tutors, at least during
the year ensuing,         that at the end of the year the President elect be called to the
exercise of his office,       and if, in the interim, any means may be devised to enable
the Trustees to support two other Professors (viz., the Professor of Mathematics
and Natural Philosophy, and the Professor of Languages and Logic), in that case
the gentlemen now elected to those offices shall be called to enter upon the same,
and the constitution by a Faculty shall then take place.
  " Pursuant to the above              the Rev.
                              resolution,      Mr. John Blair, who is pleased to
accept of the Professorship of Divinity and Morality, was chosen Vice-President
until the next Commencement, and was accordingly
                                                       qualified to [hold] those
offices, as the Charter directs.
   " Mr.
          Joseph Periam was also duly elected Senior Tutor of the College, in the
room of Mr. Jeremiah Halsey resigned, and [was] qualified, as the Charter directs.
  "Mr.   James Thompson, Second Tutor, and Mr. Jonathan Edwards, Junior
Tutor, whose services and conduct in their respective offices being much approved,
were requested by Mr. Tennent, in the name of this Board, to continue in their
said offices for the year ensuing, to which they were pleased to signify their
compliance."
  "
    Voted, That there be allowed the sum of one hundred pounds proc. to each of
the Tutors, as their respective salaries for the year
                                                 ensuing."
  "
    Voted, That the expenses that may accrue to the Rev. Mr. John Blair, in the
removal of himself and family to Nassau Hall, be defrayed out of the
                                                                        College
treasury."
  " Dr.
          Shippen is desired to inform Dr. Williamson, by letter, in the name of this
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

Board, of his election to the Professorship of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy,
and to acquaint him with their resolution to defer calling him to the exercise of
the said office for at least one year, and until they are enabled to provide the sup-

port annexed to the same.
  " Mr. Spencer is desired to notify the congregation at Fog's [Fagg's] Manor of
Mr. Blair's election to a Professorship in this College, and to pursue the necessary
steps, in behalf of this Board, for obtaining the said Mr. Blair's discharge from his
pastoral office, in order to his speedy removal."
   The Rev. Win. Kirkpatrick, of Amwell, New Jersey, was elected a Trustee, in
the room of Mr. Blair, resigned.
  Mr. Blair was released from         his   pastoral charge, and     removed to Princeton.
None of the other Professors accepted their appointments; and no reference to
their appointments occurs in the subsequent minutes of the Board, with the excep-
tion of the following minutes, of          December   10,   1767:*   "The Trustees having
thought it expedient, in order to enable them to establish and support a number of
Professors in this College, that subscriptions in this and the neighboring colonies
should be set forward among the friends of religion and learning, and Mr. [W. P.]
Smith presenting a draught of a preamble to said proposed subscription papers, the
one designed to be subscribed by such persons as may choose to contribute a sum
in gross, the other as an annual subscription to continue for seven years, from the
1st of August, 1768, the same were examined and approved; and Mr. Bryan is

desired to order three hundred of each sort to be forthwith printed at Philadelphia,
and to distribute a number of each to every member of this Board, who mutually
engage to use their best endeavors to promote subscriptions           in the Country.   And
the said Mr. Bryan      is   directed to    draw upon the Treasurer for the expense of
printing the same."
  " This Board
                  being informed that the Synod of New York and Philadelphia
have  lately appointed an annual contribution to be made in the several congrega-
tions throughout their bounds for the laudable purpose of promoting Christian

knowledge, and conceiving a yearly appropriation of some part of said contribu-
tion for and towards the support of a Divinity Professor in this College would per-

fectly accord with the views of the          Synod in the said appointment, as the well
training up and instruction of our youth in the doctrines of Christianity would be
one of the most effectual means to accomplish the excellent purposes designed by
said contributions, It is therefore ordered, That the Rev. Mr. Rodgers do pre-

pare a draught of a letter to said Synod, requesting an annual appropriation of part
of those collections towards the maintenance of a Professor of Divinity in this Col-

lege, to be laid before the Board this afternoon."
  " Mr.
         Rodgers, pursuant to order, laid before the Board a draught of a letter to the
Reverend the Synod of New York and Philadelphia which being read and ap-
                                                              ;


proved, it was ordered that the same be transcribed and signed by the Clerk, and
that Mr.     Rodgers do present it at the next meeting of said Synod."

      This    letter   was laid before the Synod, at their sessions in

   * On
           page 181 of the first volume of Minutes there is a reference to the plan for
appointing Professors, but no reference to the particular appointments now made.
      INTERVAL BETWEEN JUL Y, 1766, AND AUGUST, 1768.                              295

Philadelphia, in the month of May, 1768, and the following is
the minute of the Synod's action in regard to it                 :




  "   A supplication was brought in from the honorable the Board of Trustees of the
New Jersey College, praying assistance in supporting a Professor of Divinity, from
the last year's collection, and was fully considered, and the
                                                            Synod judge that they
cannot give any part of the money collected last year towards the support of a Pro-
fessor of Divinity in said College, but   do agree, and hereby order, that a general
collection be   made for this purpose in all our congregations; and that the money
raised by this separate collection be applied particularly by this Synod, yearly, for
this purpose till expended ; and in the mean time, in order to assist in supporting a

Professor of Divinity in said College, the Synod do agree to give the present Pro-
fessor the sum of fifty pounds out of the money now in the hands of our Treasurer,
to be refunded next year.
  "
      Ordered, That Mr. Treat, our Treasurer, pay this sum to the Trustees of the
College of New Jersey."


   Mr. Blair, the Professor of Divinity, was the Moderator of
the Synod this year.
   Under the date of the 25th of May,                      1769, the following
minute occurs in the records of the Synod                  :




  " The
          Synod do agree to give the honorable Board of Trustees of the New
Jersey College, towards supporting a Professor of Divinity in that institution, sixty
pounds for the last year, and sixty pounds for the current year, out of the col-
lections   made in our congregations for this purpose, agreeable to an order of last
session.    The fifty pounds lent that honorable Board last year is refunded."

   At the opening of the next term after his election, Mr. Blair,
as Vice-President, took the oversight of the College, and, aided

by the three Tutors above named, conducted its instruction and
government, as previously ordered by the Board, it being ex-
pressly said at the time of their appointment that the President
elect, the Rev. Samuel Blair, and the Professors elect of Mathe-
matics and of Languages, were not expected to enter upon the
duties of their respective offices for at least one year.

  " These                                       "
          arrangements," says President Green,    appear to have been proposed
on the one side, and acceded to on the other, with a view to show a conciliatory
disposition.    One professor of the old side party was chosen       ;   and at the same
meeting one gentleman of that party was unanimously elected to fill a vacancy
which had taken place in the Board of Trustees. While this was done, effectual care
was taken to give no pledges which could produce subsequent embarrassment.
These measures were, perhaps, the best which the circumstances in which the
Board was placed would admit; yet it seems strange that any one should seriously
296
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

expect that they would ever be carried into effect. It is believed by the writer

[Dr. Green] that many members of the Board, at this very time, cherished a pretty
sanguine hope that Dr. Witherspoon would yet become the President of the College.
That event, whether expected or not, did at length take place and not a word after-
                                                               ;


wards appears on the records in regard to the appointments which were now made,
nor in reference to any part of this negotiation and agreement relative to a faculty.
There had never, indeed, been any open or avowed opposition to the election of
Dr. Witherspoon. And when he entered on his office, his prudence, talents, and
weight of character not only put an end to party measures in the Board of Trustees,
but contributed greatly to produce effect in the councils of the Church to which he

belonged."

  At the meeting of the Board at which the matters above
mentioned took place,
  " Mr. Tennent communicated a letter from Mr.
                                                      Stephen Sayre, of London,
merchant, wherein he is pleased to offer, if properly empowered, to exert his en-
deavors in England for obtaining benefactions in favor of this College. Resolved,
That the thanks of this Board be transmitted to that gentleman for his polite and
generous offer, and that Mr. Rodgers do write to the said Mr. Sayre in the name of
this Board, expressing their grateful acknowledgments for his proffered services in

England ; and at the same time to enclose a general commission from the Trustees
of this College, to be signed by the Clerk in their name, and sealed with the Corpora-
tion seal, empowering him to act as their agent    and attorney in soliciting and re-
ceiving benefactions in Books, Philosophical Instruments, and subscriptions for
the use of said College, and to employ any attorneys under him for said purpose."*



  Mr. Halsey, who had been a Tutor for ten years, having re-
signed his office, the Trustees, in addition to the testimonial
which they directed should be given, voted him forty pounds
over and above his regular salary for the year.
   The Treasurer was ordered to collect the outstanding debts
of the last lottery with all possible despatch.
   A committee was appointed to settle Mr. Stockton's account
with the College while he was in Great Britain.

  * "                                                                     "
      Stephen Sayre, the gentleman named in this minute," says Dr. Green, was
a native American, and graduated at Nassau Hall in 1757. He was at this time an
eminent London merchant, and afterwards the high sheriff of that city.      His kind
dispositions towards his Alma Mater were certainly commendable ; but there is no
record of any donations which he obtained for the College.  Perhaps his earnest
expectations were disappointed by the ardent controversies which about this time
took place in regard to the claims of the mother-country and the colonies. In those
controversies Mr. Sayre participated deeply.    He eventually left Britain, returned
to his native country, and lived in retirement to a very advanced age.   He died in
Virginia about four years since, about the year 1818."
    INTERVAL BETWEEN JULY, 1766, AND AUGUST, 1768. 297

   Provision was made for a new edition of the Newark (Latin)
Grammar, to be revised and published by the Rev. Mr. Caldwell,
and Messrs. Reeve and Pemberton, masters of the grammar-
school at Elizabethtown.
   December 9, 1767, a special meeting of the Trustees was
         accordance with the charter, at the request of six
called, in
members of the Board.
   At this meeting Mr. Wm. P. Smith, the senior Trustee present,
and who presided on this occasion,
" communicated a letter from the Rev. Samuel Blair to the Honorable William

Smith, Esq., the President of the Trustees at their last meeting, wherein the said
Mr. Blair declines accepting the Presidentship of this College, to which he was
chosen  and the said office was accordingly declared to be vacant."
         ;




   At this same meeting
  " Mr. Stockton communicated to the Board
                                               sundry letters he had recently received
from Scotland, informing him that the difficulties which had prevented Dr. Wither-
spoon's acceptance of the Presidentship to which he had been chosen were now
removed, and that upon a re-election he would esteem it a duty to enter into this
public service.     The Board, receiving the intelligence with peculiar satisfaction,
proceeded immediately to a re-election, when the said Dr. Witherspoon was again
unanimously chosen to the said office;" and it was
  "
    Resolved, That the salary to be allowed Dr. Witherspoon as President of the
College be according to the propositions made to him in the letter wrote him by
the President of this Board upon his former election ; together with the explanation
thereof mentioned to the said Dr. Witherspoon by Mr. Stockton, one of the mem-
bers of this Board, in his letter from Edinburgh, dated 2d March, 1767.    And
that the same sum of one hundred guineas, as on his former election, be allowed
him for the expenses of removing himself and his family to this place."
  "
    Resolved, That the President of this Board be desired immediately to transmit
a copy of the above vote to Dr. Witherspoon and also to send a duplicate of the
                                                ;


same by the first opportunity, to be accompanied with his letter, requesting the said
Dr. Witherspoon to hasten his coming over as soon as he conveniently can."


   The Rev. Samuel Blair mentioned above as having declined
the Presidency was the son of the Rev. Samuel Blair, of Fagg's
Manor, Pennsylvania, and, like his father, was distinguished for
talent and learning as well as for piety. He was also a nephew
of the Rev. John Blair, the Professor of Divinity and Moral

Philosophy.   He was a graduate of the College in 1760, and
was a Tutor for three years during the administration of Presi-
dent Finley, and, as mentioned in the sketch of that administra-
tion, he was the author of the account of the College published
     VOL. I.   2O
 2^8
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

 by order of the Trustees in 1764.                     At the time of his election
as President of the College he was a colleague of the Rev. Dr.

Sewall, minister of South Church, Boston.    He was not thirty
years of age when   he was chosen President.  Speaking of this
event, and of his declining the appointment, President Green,
       "                   "
in his   Notes," observes,   But at that time a youth of higher
promise was probably not to be found in the American Church."
   " The                                    " has learned from
            writer," continues Dr. Green,                         good authority that as soon
as Mr. Blair had ascertained that a re-election of Dr. Witherspoon would secure his
services and influence in favor of the College, a voluntary and prompt tender of
the resignation here recorded prevented the embarrassment in which the Trustees

might otherwise have been involved. Dr. Witherspoon has been known to men-
tion this act as an instance of disinterestedness and generosity highly creditable to
Mr. Blair.
  " This
         gentleman, shortly after his resignation of the Presidency, fell into a vale-
tudinary state, which induced him to resign his pastoral charge in Boston, and
which rendered his subsequent life little else than a long disease.                  He resided for
many years at Germantown, in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, and performed
such ministerial services as his health would permit.            For two years he served as
chaplain in Congress.      The writer recollects many pleasing hours spent in his
company in an acquaintance of nearly thirty years' continuance.                  He died about
two years since [1820]."                          "
                              (See Dr. Green's        Notes.")

   After their second election of Dr. Witherspoon, the Trustees
passed a resolution designed to prevent candidates from enter-
ing any other than the Freshman class but this order was soon
                                                         ;




repealed and the previous rule re-established.
   The following important rule was adopted at this time:
  "
      Voted, That the practice of sending Freshmen upon errands, or employing them
as servitors in any manner whatsoever, be from henceforth totally discontinued."
  " Mr. Stockton
                    having informed the Board that he had received when in England
the sum of one hundred pounds sterling, which was given to the Trustees of this

College in trust for and towards the support of a Divinity Professor in the same, by
Mr. Williamson, of Hanover, in Virginia ; Resolved, That Dr. Redman do transmit
the thanks of this Board, by letter, to the said Mr. Williamson for his generous
donation."
  The grammar-school in connection with the College having been discontinued
        death of President Finley, the Trustees now appointed a committee " to
after the

consider of ways and means for setting and promoting the same,           .   .   .    and to report
at the next meeting."


  During this interval the following gentlemen were chosen Trustees                   :




  The Rev. John Blair, in the room of the Rev. John Light (Leydt), resigned.
  Hon. George Bryan, in the room of Hon. Edward Shippen, resigned.
    INTERVAL BETWEEN JULY, 1766, AND AUGUST, 1768. 299

  The Rev. Wm. Kirkpatrick, in the room of the Rev. John Blair, elected Professor.
  The following gentlemen composed the Faculty     :



  The Rev. William Tennent, President pro tern., from July 17 to October 2, 1767.
  The Rev. John Blair, Vice-President, from October 2, 1767, to August 17, 1768;
Professor of Divinity and Moral Philosophy until the annual Commencement, Sep-
tember 27, 1769.
  Mr. Jeremiah Halsey, Senior Tutor.
  Mr. James Thompson.
  Mr. Joseph Periam, Senior Tutor upon Mr. Halsey's resignation.
  Mr. Jonathan Edwards.
  At the annnual Commencement of 1767 there were eleven graduates, and at that
of 1768 there were also eleven; total for both years, twenty-two. Of these, eight
became ministers of the gospel. The most distinguished of these graduates in after-
life were    of the class of

   1767. Francis Barber, A.M., of New Jersey, a classical teacher of   much repute   ;


also Lieutenant-Colonel in the U. S. Army.

  1767. Nathaniel Ramsay, A.M., of Maryland, a lawyer of eminence, a Colonel
in the Revolutionary Army, and a member of the Continental Congress.

  1767.     Samuel Witham Stockton, A.M., Secretary of State for New Jersey; pre-
viously he was Secretary of the American Commission to the Courts of Austria and
Prussia.

  1768. Rev. Robert Blackwell, D.D., of Philadelphia, an Episcopal clergyman,
a Chaplain and also a Surgeon in the U. S. Army.
   1768. Ephraim Brevard, M.D., reputed author of the Mecklenburg Resolutions;
a Surgeon in the U. S. Army.
  1768. Pierpont Edwards, A.M., a son of President Edwards, Judge of the U. S.
District Court for Connecticut, and a member of the Continental Congress.

  1768. Wm. Churchill Houston, A.M., Professor of Mathematics in the College
of New Jersey a member of the Continental Congress.
                 ;



   1768. Adlai Osborne, during the Revolution a Colonel in the U. S. Army; also
a Trustee of the University of North Carolina.
   1768. Rev. Thomas Reese, D.D., of South Carolina, a scholar and a minister
of much repute.

   1768. Rev. Elias Van Bunschooten, a minister of the Reformed Dutch Church.
He left a large legacy to Queen's College, New Brunswick.
                         CHAPTER XV.
  DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION, FROM             AUGUST 17. 1768,
                         TO NOVEMBER 15, 1794.

  DR. WITHERSPOON was inaugurated on the i/th of August,
1768, at a special meeting of the Board called for this purpose.
The minute of the Board in reference to his inauguration is as
              "
follows   : The Rev. Dr. Witherspoon being now arrived from
North Britain to preside at the head of this Institution, pur-
suant to his re-election at the last meeting, was duly qualified
as the charter directsand, having taken the oaths of office as
                         ;


one of the Trustees and President of the College, took his seat
accordingly."
  So far as appears from the minutes, there was no other cere-
.mony connected with his entrance upon the duties of his office;
but in a short sketch of his administration, given by the Rev.
Dr. Ashbel Green before the Alumni Association in 1840, and
published in the "Presbyterian Magazine" for 1854, it is ex-
pressly said that he delivered a Latin inaugural address on the
union of Piety and Science.    The venerable author of this
                                "
statement confirmed it by adding, I had an opportunity, when

a member of the Senior class in College, of perusing the Ad-
dress, in the handwriting of its author; but it has not been
found among the manuscripts which were left by the Doctor at
the time of his death."
   Dr. Witherspoon was most cordially welcomed by the Trus-
tees and other friends of the College, and also by the commu-

nity at large. They all expected great benefits to result to the
College from his accession to the Presidency and in this they
                                                 ;


were not disappointed.
  The first order passed by the Board, after his inauguration,
was one directing the Treasurer of the College to pay Dr.
      300
                 DR. WITHERSPOON' S ADMINISTRATION.
                                                                                     ^ OI

                    "
Witherspoon, with the first moneys that may come into his
hands, one hundred guineas, the same being the sum that was
voted by this Board for defraying the expenses of his removal
to this country."   This shows the low condition of the College
funds at this time.
   The following resolutions were also passed                    :




  "
    Voted, That the salary of the President of this College be fixed at three hundred
and fifty pounds proclamation money of this Province, exclusive of house and the
customary use of the College lands. Which sum of ^350 is equal to ^206 sterling
money of Great Britain, mentioned to Dr. Witherspoon at his first election, in a
letter sent him by order of this   Board, and agreeable to an explanation of the same
in Mr. Stockton's letter written to him from Edinburgh, 2d of        March, 1767."

   There is no mention in the minutes of the meeting at which
Dr. Witherspoon was chosen President of the College that his
salary should be three hundred and fifty pounds proc.   At a
meeting of the Trustees, held some weeks before his election,
it was
       agreed that the President's salary should be two hundred
and fifty pounds proc., with the usual perquisites. It is not im-
probable, however, that in the letters sent to Dr. Witherspoon
and to Mr. Stockton there were intimations of a willingness to
make his salary three hundred and fifty pounds.
  "
      Voted, That the President's salary do commence from the fifteenth day of May
last, being the day of his   discharge from his pastoral office at Paisley to enter upon
this service."
  " Dr. Witherspoon, President of this College, having, at the request of several
friends to this Institution, taken a tour from Paisley to London, and from thence to

Holland, and having thereby done eminent service to this College, It is ordered,
That the thanks of this Board be given to the said Dr. Witherspoon, and that the
Treasurer is ordered to pay unto him the balance of his account of expenses on that
service, amounting to the sum of ^42.9.0, sterling money of Great Britain."


   Of the precise character of this " eminent service" no men-
tion is made in the minutes of the Board.     It no doubt con-

sisted, in part, in a successful effort to enlist the
                                                   kind feelings
of sundry friends of religion and learning in behalf of the Col-
lege, and to prepare the way for benefactions in books, appa-
ratus, and gifts to the College treasury. For at the time the
above minute was made we find also the following:
  " The President
                    having informed the Board that he had brought over a consider-
able number of Books for the use of the
                                            College, amounting to about 300 volumes,
302       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

which were gifts of sundry friends abroad, and that he soon expects another con-
siderable benefaction in Books, the Trustees do most thankfully accept the same,
and request that the President will be pleased, by letter, in their name, to express
to the several Benefactors their grateful   acknowledgments for these useful dona-
tions."


     It was   next "Voted, That Dr. Witherspoon be allowed the
privilege of educating his sons in this College, without payment
of tuition-money or other occasional fees."
  After a reference to the action of the Board in 1751 on the
subject of College habits, of which action, however, no mention
is   made in the minutes of that year, but to which there is an
allusion in the minutes of 1752, the following stringent rule was

adopted, viz.    :




  " That from and after the next Commencement Vacation in this
                                                                     present year,
1768, all the officers and students of Nassau Hall shall appear uniformly habited,
in a proper collegiate black   gown and square cap, to be made in the manner and
form of those now used in some of our neighboring colleges, and perfectly uniform,
excepting proper distinctions that may be devised by the officers of the College to
distinguish the habits of the President, Professors, and Tutors from
                                                                     those of the
students.  And it is hereby strictly ordained, That no resident student or under-
                                                                             after the
graduate, subject to the rules and orders of the College, shall at any time,
next Commencement vacation, appear either at church, in the College Hall at prayer,
or at any other collegiate exercises, or at any time abroad, or out of the Hall (except-

ing the back-yard of the College only, and that on necessary occasions), without being
clothed in their proper College habits, on penalty of five shillings proc. money, to
be levied upon every student who shall offend against this law."

     How far this rule was ever enforced is not known. To us
it seems ill adapted to an American college, not to speak in
stronger terms. If it ever went into operation to its full extent,
it happily soon ceased to be of binding force with respect to

some of its provisions. For many years, indeed, the students
were required each to wear a black gown at all services in the
College Chapel and at all public declamations but at this day    ;




(1873) College habits are seen only at Commencements
                                                              and
 other exhibitions, and this has been the case for nearly, if not
 quite, fifty years.
   The law respecting College habits, passed in 175 1, was re-
 pealed by the Trustees at the only meeting at which
                                                     President
 Edwards was present, viz., of February 16, 1758.  But  to this

 repeal no reference is made in the preamble to this
                                                                       order.     The
           DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.                        303

action of the Board in 1758 may have escaped the recollection
of the author of the above minute, who, probably, was Mr.           Wm.
P. Smith, the gentleman who, in the year 1752, procured two
habits, one for the use of the President, and the other as a pat-
tern for the habits to be worn by the students, who were left at

liberty to wear them or not, as they pleased. It is not improb-

able that Dr. Witherspoon, just arrived from Scotland, where
college habits were customary, was in favor of the rule now
adopted. The minutes show that Mr. Smith was present at this
meeting of the I7th of August, 1768.
   The next meeting of the Board was on Wednesday, the 28th
of September, 1768. Eleven members of the Senior class were
admitted to their first degree in the Arts, among whom were
Ephraim Brevard,the author of the Mecklenburg Resolutions             ;




Pierpont Edwards, a son of President Edwards, and Judge of
the United   States District   Court   in   Connecticut   ;
                                                              and   Wm.
Churchill Houston, the first Professor of Mathematics and Nat-
ural Philosophy in the College, and afterwards a member of the
Convention that formed the Constitution of the United States.
  At this meeting William Livingston, Esq., of New York, was
chosen a Trustee.   This gentleman was afterwards Governor of
New Jersey, and ex officio President of the Board of Trustees.
  Mr. Wm. P. Smith communicated a letter from Mr. Jonathan
Smith, of Philadelphia, one of the executors of Colonel Peter
Bayard, of Maryland, wherein he informed the Board that Col-
onel Bayard left to the College a legacy of twenty pounds, to
be paid within one year after his decease, to be applied to the
education of candidates for the ministry; and that the executors
were prepared to pay the same. The Treasurer was ordered to
receive the same and to give the executors a full discharge.
   A new arrangement was made with the Steward for the
boarding of the students, according to which the Steward en-
          "
gages to    find and provide for the said scholars such food as
has been heretofore served up to them, and Small Beer to drink,
at the Price of six shillings and sixpence proclamation money
of New Jersey, by the week," or, in other words, for eighty-six
and one-third cents a week.
  The attention of the Board was given very much to the aug-
304
      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

mentation of the funds of the College, and to the collecting of
moneys due the Corporation. And while the Trustees, in the
straitened condition of the College treasuiy, were liberal to-
wards the President, they were not equally generous towards
Mr. Blair, the Professor of Divinity and Moral Philosophy. To
him they gave but one hundred and seventy-five pounds proc.;
and when the congregations of Maidenhead (now Lawrence) and
Kingston desired to secure his services as their preacher, on
alternate Sabbaths, for the ensuing year, the Trustees consented
to his acceptance of their offers on the condition that of the

ninety-five pounds which he was to receive for this service he
should pay to the Treasurer of the College, for the use of the
institution, forty-five pounds and this they required on the
                                 ;




ground that it was a part of his official duty to preach to the
students.  Had their consenting to this arrangement involved
the incurring of additional expense on the part of the Board for
the supply of the pulpit, the condition would not have been un-
reasonable; but Dr. Witherspoon was on the ground, and was
ready and willing to preach to the students. We shall find,
however, that the Trustees thought better of this demand on
their part, and relinquished it. Mr. Blair was a man of rare
talent and learning, and an able preacher.    He was chosen
Professor of Divinity and Moral Philosophy, and pro tern. Vice-
President of the College, after Dr. Witherspoon declined his
first invitation from the Board to become the President, and for

nearly a year before Dr. Witherspoon's arrival in this country
Mr. Blair was at the head of the institution.
  But notwithstanding      all   their efforts to obtain funds,   and
their success to some extent, by contributions from individuals
and from the churches under the care of the Synod of New
York and Philadelphia, it was found very difficult, if not impos-
sible, to meet all the demands upon the treasury of the College.
To relieve the Board from their pecuniary embarrassment, Mr.
Blair, of his own motion, addressed to the Trustees a letter, of
the date of April   6,   1769, offering to resign his place in the
College. The paper was read and ordered to be entered on the
minutes, and was made the basis of the Board's action in this
matter.
                   DR.      WITHERSPOON' S ADMINISTRATION.                                    305
  "
    GENTLEMEX, I do hereby gratefully acknowledge the honor you have con-
ferred upon me in calling me to this Institution as Professor of Divinity and Moral

Philosophy, and it would be very agreeable to me, in itself considered, to continue
in this service. But it is a very discouraging consideration that the funds are so
very inadequate to the expense as to render it very doubtful whether after the
utmost efforts a sufficient capital can be raised. In the course of divine Provi-
dence, too, a state of things very different from that in view at the time of my elec-
tion has taken place. If, therefore, it appears to the Board that the business they
have been pleased to assign me may devolve upon the President, and thereby the
expense of my salary be saved, in that case I would willingly resign. And the dis-
mission may take place at what time this Honorable Board may judge most con-
venient.      This matter is submitted to your consideration by, Gentlemen, your very
humble servant,                                                                    J.   BLAIR.
  "
      April   6,   1769.

  " The
           Board, taking into consideration the above request of Mr. Blair, do agree
to his resignation for the reasons therein mentioned, particularly on account of the

insufficiency of the College Funds for the present support of a Divinity Professor.
And they consider this application as a distinguished proof of his disinterestedness
and public spirit ; so they look upon themselves as obliged to give him the thanks
of the Board for his services in the College, of which they will retain a grateful

sense, and to testify their entire approbation to his whole conduct, both in the point
of instruction and government, during his continuance in office.            And it is Resolved,
That the said Mr. Blair's salary as Professor of Divinity do continue until the next
Commencement.              And it is also voted, That the sum of one hundred pounds be
allowed him over and above the same, to become payable at the next Commencement,
together with the remission of the moneys which were to have been paid by him
into the College Treasury in consideration of the relinquishment of his services as
a preacher to the students for the last half-year ; which the Board have considered
as a reasonable       compensation for the difficulties and expenses the said Mr. Blair
may be put to upon so sudden a removal. And it is further Resolved, That a former
vote of this Board respecting a Faculty to be established in this College be, for the
reasons above, wholly vacated and annulled.
  " The Board then
                     proceeded                   Divinity Professor in the room
                               to the election of a
of Mr. Blair resigned, when the Rev. Dr. Witherspoon, President of the College,
was unanimously chosen           ;
                                     and in consideration of the additional services thereby
required of him they added             fifty pounds   a year to his salary, to begin on the   last

Wednesday in September next, the day of ih*>. annual Commencement."
   Dr. Witherspoon acquainting the Board "that from accounts
received from Boston near     1000 proc. hath been subscribed,
and part of the same remitted, for the use of this College, the
Board requested that he would be pleased, by letters in their
name, to return the thanks of the Trustees of this College
to the Benefactorswho have so generously assisted the In-
stitution."
306        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

      Of the three gentlemen elected Professors in 1767, Mr. Blair
was the only one who entered upon the duties of the chair to
which he was called. At the time of his appointment he was
pastor of the Presbyterian church of Fagg's Manor, Pennsyl-
vania, and the principal of the Classical and Theological School
established by his brother, the Rev. Samuel Blair, his predeces-
sor both in the church and in the school.

      Upon leaving Princeton he was                settled as pastor       of the
church at Goodwill or Wallkill, in the State of New York.
He was a man of eminent piety, and of a sound and vigorous
intellect a logician of a high order.
            :                           His treatises " On the
                                               "
Nature, Uses, and Subjects of the Sacraments,"   On Regenera-
tion,"    and " On the Nature and Uses of the Means of Grace,"
exhibit clear, discriminating, and candid views of these impor-
tant topics, and as such must commend themselves to the pious
and intelligent reader, whether he can or cannot assent to all
his positions.
   Mr. Blair was a native of Ireland, born there                   in   1720, and
died at Wallkill, December 8, 1771.
  His letter, given above, shows him to have been a man of
noble and generous impulses, and entirely free from all selfish
aims and considerations.
   The President moved " that an extract from a letter to him
from William Phillips, Esq., of Boston, might be inserted in the
minutes." The same was ordered to be inserted accordingly,
and is in the words following          :




  "
      My two brothers have subscribed ^"100 each (Boston lawful), which, with my
subscription, makes ,300, or 1000 dollars ;   which I mention, as we are desirous it
may be kept by itself, as it may be applied to some particular use hereafter, pro-
vided the funds of the College shall admit thereof, and you advise to such appro-
priation.   In that case it may be enlarged."
   " The
          Board, considering the Intimation in the above extract contained, desired
the President of the College to write to the said Mr. Phillips, and refer the appro-

priation of money subscribed by himself and brothers to such uses and purposes as
he or they shall think fit to direct."

  This generous gift, or rather the disposing of the annual in-
crease of the same, became the occasion for a time of a serious
discussion between a committee of the Board and the President,

as^to the right of the latter to           expend the income from this
              DR. WITHERSPOON' S ADMINISTRATION.

fund for the benefit of the College, at his discretion.                    Contrary
to the judgment of the committee which made a report upon
this subject, and especially of the author of the report, the
Board finally decided that it was the intention of the donors
that Dr. Witherspoon should have the disposal of the income
from this fund.
  " The Board
               being informed that the Rev. Mr. Caldwell, of Elizabethtown, had
taken a journey to the eastern parts of Long Island, and had set on foot a subscrip-
tion there, as well as at Elizabethown, for the use of the College,"   MJ. W. P. Smith
(the Clerk) "was desired to give to Mr. Caldwell the thanks of the Board, and to
request his endeavors to have the money collected when payable, and sent to him ;
and that he remit the same, when received, to the Treasurer of the College, taking
his receipt in discharge."


   Hoping, from information received, that considerable bene-
factions would be obtained from the friends of learning and re-

ligion in South Carolina should a personal application be made
to them by a duly-authorized agent, the Board requested the
Rev. Dr. John Rodgers, of New York, a member of the Board,
to undertake this service         ;
                                      which he consented to do, with the
understanding that provision should be made for the supply of
his pulpit during his absence.
   Other friends interested themselves in behalf of the College,
as appears from the following minute               :



  " The Board
               being informed that several friends of the College in different parts
of the country have set on foot subscriptions to increase the funds, do approve and

gratefully acknowledge the measures taken by them for this purpose, and do recom-
mend the further promoting and encouragement of like subscriptions."

  Upon the examination of the Treasurer's accounts, it appeared
that therewas due to the Treasurer the sum of ^183.11.6.
What was the amount of the bonds held by the College at this
time does not appear from the report of the committee charged
with the duty of making this examination.
   The next meeting of the Board was held on Wednesday,
the 2/th of September, 1769.              This was the day of the annual
Commencement; and this Commencement is one of note, from
the following circumstances:
  I. That the class then
                         graduated was the first one which had
had the privilege of being under the tuition and guidance of
Dr. Witherspoon.
308
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  2.   That not a few of the graduates on this occasion became
men of note in their day; and one of their number, Samuel
Stanhope Smith, succeeded Dr. Witherspoon         in the office of

President of the College.
   3. That at this Commencement the degree of Doctor of Laws
was conferred upon two distinguished civilians of our country,
viz., John Dickinson and Joseph Galloway, Esquires, of Phila-

delphia,   this being the first time that this degree was conferred

by the Trustees of tJds institution.
  Upon the resignation of Mr. Periam, Mr. Jeremiah Halsey
was chosen Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy,
with a salary of one hundred and twenty-five pounds       ;
                                                              but he
declined the appointment.   Mr. Wm. Churchill Houston, the
Master of the College grammar-school, was then chosen a Tutor
in theroom of Mr. Periam. At the same time Mr. Tapping
Reeve was appointed a Tutor in the place of Mr. Pemberton,
resigned.
  The Rev. James Caldwell was chosen a Trustee to fill the
vacancy occasioned by the decease of the Rev. William Kirk-
patrick and the Rev. John Blair, the late Professor of Divinity
         ;


and of Moral Philosophy, was elected a Trustee in the room of
the Rev. Mr. De Ronde, resigned. The Rev. Mr. Caldwell was
                "
also appointed an agent of the Board to solicit subscriptions
for the benefit of the College in Maryland, Virginia, the two

Carolines, and Georgia," the Trustees engaging to pay his
expenses, and also the expense of supplying his pulpit during
his absence.
   Mr. Caldwell was well received at the South, and his mis-
sion was attended with  happy results. The subscriptions ob-
tained by him for the College were estimated at not less than
one thousand pounds proc., over and above all expenses. Some
of the subscriptions were in moneys, and others in the pro-
duce of the country. The subscriptions in Georgia, for the
most part, were to be paid in produce.
   To the payment of their debts, as well as to the soliciting
                  now gave their attention. Preceding the
of funds, the Board
record of the matters just mentioned occurs the following
minute, under the date of September 28, 1769:
                DR.   WITHERSPOOWS ADMINISTRATION.                                      309
  " Whereas an order hath heretofore been made on the Treasurer for the
                                                                                payment
of a certain Bill of Exchange formerly drawn for the sum of ,125 sterling by Mr.
Field, Bookseller, of   London, on Mr. Jeremiah Halsey       ;
                                                                 and as a debate hath
arisen relating to the rate of Exchange and Interest to be allowed on said Bill, it was
now referred to the Board to ascertain the same, which being taken into considera-
tion, the Exchange was fixed as supposed to be at or about the Time of presenta-
tion of said Bill at the rate of 72^ the sum therefore (including the Interest, also
                                     ;


now calculated and allowed) was found to amount to ^248.6. 6 proclamation money
of New Jersey, which the Treasurer of this College is hereby warranted to pay in
full   discharge of said Bill of Exchange."

   The chief interest of this extract is the evidence it furnishes
that the purchasing of    books in London for the use of the
students,      begun in Mr. Burr's administration, was                      still   con-
tinued.
   But money matters were not the only things to which the
attention of the Board was given, essential as these were to the

very being of the College.
   " The Board
                  taking into consideration the great want of a Philosophical Appa-
ratus, for the use of the students in this College in Natural Philosophy, of which it
has long been destitute, It was now Resolved, That Dr. Witherspoon, Mr. Bryan,
Dr. Shippen, Dr. Redman, Dr. Harris, Mr. Beatty, and Mr. Caldwell, or any three
of them, be a committee to consult and determine upon such and so many of the
instruments belonging to an Apparatus as may be judged by them to be the most

necessary and immediately wanted. And the said committee are empowered to
send their orders to England for the same as they conveniently can Provided the
                                                                        :



amount of the cost exceed not the sum of ^250 sterling."

    At the next Commencement, that of 1770, twenty-two were
admitted to the first degree in the Arts, and
                                          five graduates of

the College to the second degree. Four gentlemen received
the honorary degree of A.M., and five others the degree of
Doctor in Divinity. This was the first occasion on which this
degree of D.D. was conferred by this College. The gentlemen
upon whom it was conferred were,--
  The Rev. Robert Finley, of Glasgow, in North Britain the                          ;



Rev. John Gillies, of Glasgow, in North Britain the Rev.                ;



Archibald Laidly, of New York; the Rev. George Muir, of
Paisley, in North Britain; the Rev. Ebenezer Pemberton, of
Boston, New England.
  Mr. Pemberton was one of the Trustees of the College under
the first charter, as well as under the one given by Governor
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

Belcher. Having resigned his pastoral charge in New York,
and having removed to Boston in 1754, he vacated his seat at
the Board.
   At this meeting of the Trustees provision was made for the
sending of a small vessel from Philadelphia to Georgia in order
to receive such of the promised benefactions as were to be
made from the products of the country.
   Some misunderstanding having arisen with respect to the
import of a law passed by the Board in December, 1767, "for
ascertaining the power and authority of the respective officers
of the College," which officers at this time were the President
and the Tutors,   there being no Professors or fully-organized
                                                     "
Faculty,  the Trustees  thought it proper to declare that the
President of the College for the time being is invested with
the sole direction as to the methods of education to be pur-
sued in this Seminary." The rule giving each particular officer
"the sole authority of directing the times and manner of the
recitations" of their respective classes was passed at a time
when there was no regular President, and was designed for the
guidance of the officers then in the charge of the College.
  In their explanatory minute of their former action, the Trus-
tees pay the following compliment to Dr. Witherspoon                     :




  "And the Trustees are the rather induced to make the above explanation and
amendment of said law, for that when it was enacted the President elect was resi-
dent in Great Britain, and it was uncertain how long a time might elapse before he
should actually take the chair; but now he hath actually taken upon himself the
charge of the College, and the Trustees have been so fully satisfied from experi-
ence of his great abilities in the management of the Institution committed to his
care, and with high pleasure have seen his indefatigable labors and success in

raising the reputation of the College, they are clearly of the opinion that all the
authority above declared to be annexed by the said law to the office of President
of the College, is highly proper to be put into the hands of the Rev. Dr. Wither-

spoon, the now President."

   Further order was taken in regard to the investment of the
College funds, and to the safe-keeping of all writings, records,
and papers belonging to the Corporation, and with respect to
the recording of the deeds in the possession of the Board and                ;



also in reference to the management of the library and for the

preservation and increase of the same   each student, and each
                                                  ;
                DR.    WITHERSPOOWS ADMINISTRATION,                            ^n
resident graduate, being required to                pay to the Steward of the
                                              "
College for the use of the library                eighteen pence per quarter."
       For various purposes the Steward of the College appears to
have discharged the duties of a deputy treasurer.
  A legacy of fifty pounds, from the estate of the late Mr.
Robert Walker, was paid to the Treasurer of the College by
Richard Walker, Esq., of Bucks County, Pennsylvania, brother
of the deceased, to be expended at the discretion of the Rev.
Messrs. Treat and Beatty, two Trustees of the College, in aid-
ing poor and pious youths pursuing their studies at this Col-
lege with the design of entering the ministry.
  Information being received of the decease of the Honorable
Wm. Smith, of New York, the Rev. Jeremiah Halsey is chosen
to supply his place at the Board.
       In the summer of 1770, and again in 1772, there was mani-
fest     among the students an unusual interest in the subject of
religion and of personal piety, of which further mention will be
made in the memoir of Dr. Witherspoon.
  The Tutors, Messrs. Thompson and Reeve, having resigned,
Messrs. Richard Devens and Samuel S. Smith were chosen to
fill   their places.
   The following minute shows that the Trustees still continued
to recognize their close connection with the Presbyterian Church                   :



   "
       Resolved, That Mr. Caldwell be desired, in the name of the Board, to transmit
letters to the several Presbyteries belonging to the   Synod of New York and Phila-
delphia    who have set forward subscriptions in their respective bounds for the
benefit of this College, praying their care and diligence to collect or take proper
securities for the moneys subscribed, and that they be pleased to direct that exact
accounts of the same be brought to the next meeting of the Synod, and that Dr.

Witherspoon, Dr. Rodgers, Mr. Treat, and Mr. Bryan be a committee to settle with
the Presbyteries."

       Dr. Witherspoon was desired to return the thanks of the
Board, by letter, to such gentlemen as were known to be most
active and zealous in obtaining the late subscriptions.
                                                    This col-
lection of funds for the College was the result of the action by
the Synod the year previous.*
       A committee was appointed to consider the expediency of
                   * See Minutes of the
                                          Synod, pages 396 and 397.
3 i2
             HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

applying to the Council of Proprietors at Perth Amboy for a
grant of one thousand acres of land for the use of the institu-
tion, with power to make such application, if judged advisable.

Upon conference, and probably after some inquiry, the com-
mittee deemed it inexpedient to pursue the matter, and so re-

ported to the Board.
   A new agreement was entered into with the Steward, ac-
cording to which each student was required to pay in advance,
for commons, the sum of    ?.1O every half-year, which sum for
twenty-one weeks, a half-year, exclusive of the vacation, was at
the rate tff.ltfs.prec., or 95fV cents, a week                       ;
                                                                             and it was further
ordered, that all College charges should be paid half-yearly, in
advance.   It was afterwards ordered, that in case three students

were lodged in the same room, they should pay in all only five
pounds a year rent.
   At the Commencement of 1771 there were but twelve grad-
uates; but of these several attained great eminence, and one of
them, James Madison, became the fourth President of the United
States.

  In the account of the competition of the students on the 24th of September,
1771, the day preceding the annual Commencement of the College, it is stated, in
the " Pennsylvania Chronicle," that premiums were awarded in reading the Eng-
lish language with propriety, and in Orthography,    I. To Aaron Burr, of the Junior

class ; 2.   To W. Linn, of the Junior class  and, 3. To Belcher P. Smith, of the
                                                 ;



Sophomore class.      In extempore exercises in Latin, to H. Brockholst Livingston
and David Witherspoon, both of the Freshman class, equally. In reading the
Latin and Greek Languages with proper quantity, I. To John Witherspoon, of the


Sophomore class; 2. To Aaron Burr; 3. To Henry Lee, of the Sophomore class.
For the translation of English into Latin, to Henry Lee.
  In public speaking the competitors were numerous, and it was very difficult to
decide the pre-eminence; but the majority of the votes gave the premiums,            I. To

W. Bradford, of the Freshman class    ;
                                          2.   To W. Linn   ;   3.   To Hugh Hodge, of the
Freshman class.
  The exercises on the 25th of September were as follows                 :




  1. The Latin Salutatory,
                           " De societate
                                          hominum," by Mr. Brackenridge.
                      " Mendacium est
  2. The proposition,                    semper illicitum," was defended by Mr.
Williamson, and opposed in a syllogistic way by Messrs. McKnight and Taylor.
     " Moral         are               more excellent than natural   the latter
  3.          qualities   confessedly                            ; yet
are much more envied in the possessor by the generality of mankind ; a sure sign
of the corrupt bias of human nature," was supported by Mr. Black, and opposed

by Mr. Cheeseman, and answered by Mr. Taylor.
                   " The
  4. An Oration on       advantages of an active life," by Mr. Campbell.
                 DR.          WITHERSPOOWS ADMINISTRATION.                                313

  The business of the forenoon concluded with an anthem.
  5. At three o'clock.  An Oration on " The Idea of a Patriot King," by Mr.
Spring.
       An English forensic dispute on this question           " Does Ancient
  6.                                                      :
                                                                               Poetry excel the
Modern ?" Mr. Freneau, the Respondent, being necessarily absent, his arguments,
in favor of the Ancients,          were read.     Mr. Williamson answered him, and Mr.
McKnight replied.
                  " The
  7. A Poem on          Rising Glory of America," by Mr. Brackenridge, was
received with great applause by the audience.
  8. An Oration on
                     " The Power of
                                                Eloquence," by Mr. Ross.
  The students sung an anthem, and twelve members of the Senior class were
admitted to the       first   degree in the Arts, and six Alumni of the College proceeded
Masters of Arts.
  9.   A pathetic Valedictory Oration on Benevolence was pronounced by Mr.
Bedford.
  Mr. James Madison was excused from taking any part in the exercises.

  The most important measure adopted by the Board at this
time was the establishing of the Professorship of Mathematics
and Natural Philosophy, and the appointment of Mr. Hous-
ton, the senior Tutor, as the incumbent. The minute relating
to this subject is as follows               :


  " Pursuant to a Plan heretofore
                                          concerted, for the establishment of Professorships
in various branches of learning in this College, as soon as funds should be found to
admit of their support, the Trustees resumed the consideration of that measure ; and
conceiving it to be expedient that a Mathematical Professor, as most immediately
requisite, be now chosen in the place of one of the Tutors, proceeded to the election
of a Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, when William Ch. Houston,
M.A., now Senior Tutor in the College, was declared to be unanimously elected to
           It was then resolved that for the present the salary of the said Mr.
that office.

Houston, as Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, be the sum of one
hundred and twenty-five pounds proc., and that the Board will hereafter provide for
his better support, as their funds will admit and the future situation of the said
Professor shall reasonably require, as it is intended by this Board that the said Pro-

fessorship shall be permanent in this College for the future."

   In adopting the first part of this minute the Trustees seem
to have forgotten their action at the time of the Rev. Professor
                                                               "
Blair's resignation, when they resolved,                           That a former vote of
this Board respecting a Faculty to be established in this                            College
be, for the reasons above, wholly vacated and annulled."
   Mr. Houston accepted the appointment, and for twelve years
discharged the duties of his office with great fidelity and suc-
cess, and to the entire satisfaction of the Trustees, at the end of
which time he resigned, to enter upon the practice of the law.
       VOL. I.   21
314
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

   Professor Houston was a native of North or South Carolina,
and a graduate of the College of New Jersey in 1768. While
yet a student, he had charge of the grammar-school under
the control of the President of the College.      In 1769 he
was chosen a Tutor, and in 1771, as above mentioned, he was
elected Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy. He
was a member of the Continental Congress in 1780, and he was
chosen a member of the Convention to prepare a Constitution
for the United States.   But ill health prevented his taking a
seat in this body.             He     died at Frankford, Pennsylvania, in
1788, before the completion of his forty-third year; yet he had
the reputation of being a scholar, a teacher, a lawyer, and a
statesman of much more than ordinary ability.
  A  committee was appointed " to examine into the state of the College funds, to
take an exact list of all bonds, notes, &c., now in the Treasurer's hands, an ac-
count of all interest due, and to inquire into the state of the securities.    And the
said Committee are    empowered to direct the immediate prosecution of all such
bonds, notes, &c., as they may judge to be in precarious circumstances. The Com-
mittee is also desired to make out as precise an account as possible of all the Dona-
tions, Benefactions, and Subscriptions made or received since the arrival of Dr.

Witherspoon, in addition to the then Funds of the College, together with an ac-
count of all moneys disbursed; distinguishing on what particular accounts, and
what sums in each account respectively and make report of the whole at the next
                                          ;



meeting."

  There is no record in the minutes of the Board of any report
from this committee.              A
                           special meeting of the Board was
held on the nth of March, 1772.
  In consequence of representations made to the Board that there was       "a fair pros-

pect of collecting a considerable sum for the use of this College, in the West Indies,
the Trustees requested Dr. Witherspoon to engage in this service, and provision
was made to defray the expenses of his agency.        Dr. Witherspoon consenting to
undertake   this labor, the   Rev. Elihu Spencer, one of the Trustees, was chosen to
act as Vice-President during Dr. Witherspoon's absence.
  " Dr.
          Witherspoon informed the Board that his son, Mr. James Witherspoon,
proposed going to Barbadoes, and generously offered his service for the benefit of
the Institution. The Board therefore cheerfully agree to make out a commission
for   Mr. Witherspoon, enabling him to receive such benefactions as he may have
the opportunity of obtaining either in Barbadoes, Antigua, or any other of the Wes 1
India Islands."
  The Board, taking into consideration the encouraging prospects of obtaining
benefactions in Barbadoes and other of the Windward Islands, think proper to send
an agent more expressly for said purpose, and desire the Rev. Charles Beatty to
               DR. WITHERSPOON^ S ADMINISTRATION.
                                                                                   315

undertake the service in conjunction with Mr. Witherspoon, or otherwise, as may
appear most advantageous to the general design. The summing up of this prom-
ising effort is to be found in the following minute of the Board, under the date of
September 30, 1772: "Dr. Witherspoon did not undertake the tour to the West
Indies, according to the appointment of the Board last Spring, for very sufficient
reasons which occurred after the meeting.          Mr. Beatty, according to appointment,
went to Barbadoes, where he died on the 1 3th of August, before he made any col-
lections for the College."

  Upon learning that Mr. Edward Ireland, of Barbadoes, had shown particular kind-
ness to Mr. Beatty, it was ordered, " That Mr. W. P. Smith, the Clerk, write to Mr.
Ireland a letter of thanks in the name of the Board."


  Within ten days after consenting to visit the West Indies,
and doubtless to prepare the way for his solicitation of benefac-
tions, Dr. Witherspoon penned an address to the inhabitants of

Jamaica and other West India Islands in behalf of the College,
in which he gave a succinct account of the origin and design
of the College, and of the facilities it offered to the people of
the West Indies for the education of their children.*

   Upon the death of Mr. Beatty, the Board, not being prepared
to appoint another agent for this mission to the West Indies,
referred the further prosecution of it to the judgment of a

large committee, of which the President of the College                             was
made the chairman and here the matter ended.
                               ;

   "
    The Board being informed that some persons in the County
of Essex refused to pay their subscriptions to the College, Mr.
[W. P.] Smith was desired to prosecute them in the name of
the Board, if they refuse upon further application to them."

  Dr. Witherspoon and Mr. Halsey were appointed a committee to arrange mat-
                                  New Castle, Delaware, for the benefit of the Col-
ters for the drawing of a Lottery at
                                                                           " in the
lege ; and a bond was ordered to be given to George Monroe and others,
penalty of fifty thousand pounds proclamation money, with  condition  to indemnify
them from all damages, costs, and charges which they may sustain by reason of
their becoming managers of the Lottery."


  Elias Boudinot, Esq., was chosen a Trustee, in the                         room of
John Berrien, Esq., deceased.
  It was
                      " That
           ordered,            fifty pounds   proc. should be paid to Mr. Halsey for his
services in the management of a previous lottery."


  * This address is to be found in the fourth volume of his
                                                                     works, published in
1801, by W. W. Woodward, of Philadelphia.
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

   Mr. Halsey, having been requested to collect the deeds be-
longing to the College, laid before the Board a number of deeds,
one of which was a deed from Nathaniel Fitz Randolph for the
lot on which the College stands, and another was a deed                     from
Thomas Leonard for a bury ing-ground.
  From a perusal of the minutes of the Board, it would seem
that from the accession of Dr. Witherspoon to the presidency
until the present time the attention of both President and Trus-
tees had been directed almost exclusively to the property of
the College, and to the increase of its resources but this was  ;


far from being the case.           We do not, indeed, find any detailed
reports of the course of instruction, yet occasionally in these
minutes we get a glimpse of what the President and Tutors
were doing, and of the encouragement which they received
from the Trustees and we are assured from the success attend-
                         ;



ing their teachings, and from the eminence attained by many of
their pupils, both in the Church and in the State, that the in-
struction was most ably and efficiently conducted.

   Among the minutes of the Board at this date, September,
1772, is the following        :




  "
      Teaching Hebrew being considered by the Board of great importance, especially
to those who intend to study Divinity, Mr.  Devens, one of the present Tutors in
                                            Hebrew who offer themselves for that
the College, is appointed to instruct those in

purpose.    And although the Board do not enjoin it upon all, as a part of College
study necessary for a degree, yet they direct the President earnestly to recommend
the knowledge of Hebrew, and to take such methods as he judges most convenient
to engage the students to learn as far as necessary."


   The passage of this resolution at this time probably led Dr.
Green to think that the introduction of Hebrew as a College
study was due to Dr. Witherspoon.
  Candidates for the first degree in the Arts were required to
submit their speeches to the President for correction and ap-
proval at least four weeks before the Commencement; and it
was resolved the next year that any candidate who should
neglect to comply with this order should be denied his degree.
  Mr. Devens, a Tutor, having resigned on account of ill health,
Mr. James Grier was chosen to supply his place.
      The custom, which continues to the present time, was now
            DR. WITHERSPOON' S ADMINISTRATION.
                                                                   317

introduced of appointing a committee of the Trustees to attend
the final examinations of the students for their degrees.
  With one exception, the Senior class of 1773 was the largest
class graduated at this College during the presidency of Dr.

Witherspoon.     It   contained twenty-nine   members, three of
whom became Governors of their respective States, and three
others Presidents of three different colleges. The Governors
were Henry Lee, of Virginia, Morgan Lewis, of New York,
and Aaron Ogden, of New Jersey. The college Presidents
were James Dunlap, of Jefferson College, Pennsylvania, John
McKnight, of Dickinson College, Pennsylvania, and John Blair
Smith, of Hampden Sidney College, Virginia, and afterwards
of Union College, New York. The Commencement this year
(1773) was honored by the presence of his Excellency Governor
Franklin.
  A committee, consisting of Dr. Witherspoon, Mr. Spencer, and
Mr. Boudinot, was appointed to procure a public dinner at the
next Commencement, and to give invitations to such strangers
attending the exercises of that day as they may judge proper.
The dinner was provided, and the expense was .11.15. The
                                                           "
bill was ordered to be paid, but at the same time it was       ordered,
that there be for the future no public dinner at the expense of
the Board." The dinner here spoken of appears to have been
the first and for some time the only public dinner at the expense
of the Board.
  Mr. S. S. Smith resigns his office of Tutor, and Mr. Richard
Devens, for a time a colleague, and who had resigned on
account of ill health, was now reappointed, but he continued
in office only until the ensuing spring.
  The Clerk was directed to collect all the by-laws and regu-
lations which had been made from time to time and to lay them
before the Board.
  It appears from a minute of this date, September, 1773, that

a legacy had been left to the College by Mr. James King, of
Delaware; but what was the sum given, or the purpose of the
bequest, does not appear from the minutes of the Board.
   The tuition-fees were increased to jive pounds a year.
  A meeting of the Board was held on the I9th of April, 1774,
3i-8
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

at which Governor Franklin, President Witherspoon, and twelve
other Trustees were present.
     Among the minutes of this meeting is the following                  :




     " And whereas it has been
                                  represented, and upon inquiiy it hath appeared to
this Board, that Samuel Leake, a member of the present Senior class, was not long

since singularly active in encouraging and promoting some unwarrantable and riot-
ous proceedings among the students, particularly in publickly burning the effigies
of his Excellency Governor Hutchinson, and also insulting an honourable member
of this Board for endeavouring in a very becoming manner to prevent the said riot-
ous proceedings ; and the Board being also informed that the said Samuel Leake,

notwithstanding his conduct, hath been appointed by the Faculty to the honour of
the Salutatory Oration at the ensuing Commencement, this Board doth highly dis-

approve of his designation to that honour, and do hereby vacate that choice, and
direct the President of the College to appoint another Orator in his room."


     This order of the Board was as severe a censure of the Fac-
ulty as of Mr. Leake, who appears to have been the first scholar
in his class, and who, on the score of merit as a scholar, was
entitled to the position assigned him by the Faculty   and if            ;




permitted  to take any part  in the Commencement   exercises,
there does not appear to be any sufficient reason why he should
not have the place of Salutatory orator.  Although the Presi-
dent, Dr. Witherspoon, and the other  members of the Faculty
could not approve of the conduct of Mr. Leake and of his com-
panions on the occasion here referred to, yet it is not improba-
ble they looked with a more indulgent eye upon the offences of
these young men than did a majority of the Board, and that the
Faculty sympathized, to some extent at least, with their pupils
                      sundry obnoxious acts of the Governor
in their disapproval of

of Massachusetts, and of the support he gave to those meas-
ures of the British Ministry which eventually drove the Colo-
nies into rebellion and to establish a government for themselves
free    and altogether independent of the English Crown.                     Two
years later the very men who severely condemned young Leake
were as rebellious against British rule as he ever was, and two
more earnest rebels were not to be found than the President of
the College and the Trustee to whom, it                  is   believed, reference
is    made in the minute cited above, and who was a resident of
Princeton.       In   fact, the    Trustees were      all     of them rebels and
supporters of the Confederation.
                  DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.                                 319

  After his graduation Mr. Leake received from Dr. Wither-
spoon a written certificate of his qualifications to teach Latin,
Greek, and Mathematics, to which was appended the follow-
ing:
   "
       I   must also add, that he gave particular attention to the
English language while here, and is probably better acquainted
with its structure, propriety, and force than most of his years
and standing in this country."
  Mr. Leake became a distinguished lawyer and an eminent
Christian man, and he died at his residence in the city of Tren-
ton in the year 1820.
   His son-in-law, the Rev. Elijah Slack, LL.D., was Vice-Presi-
dent of the College and Professor of Mathematics and Natural
Philosophy from 1812 to 1817.
   In the summer following this action of the Board in reference
to Mr. Leake, John Adams, the second President of the United

States, visited Princeton, and of this visit President Adams has
left   the following account.            It   is   taken from his Life by his
grandson      :




  "August 27, 1774.      About 12 o'clock we arrived at the tavern in Princeton
which holds out the sign of Hudibras, near Nassau Hall.    The College is a stone
building about as large as that at New York. It stands upon rising ground, and so

commands a prospect of the country. After dinner Mr. Pigeon, a student, son of
Mr. Pigeon, of Watertown, to whom we brought a letter, took a walk with us, and
shewed us the seat of Mr. Stockton, a lawyer of this place and one of the Trustees
of the College as we returned we met Mr. Euston [Houston], professor of Mathe-
                  ;


matics and Natural Philosophy, who kindly invited us to his chamber. We went.
The College is conveniently constructed   ;   instead of entries across the building, the
entries arefrom end to end, and the chambers are on each side of the entries.
There are such entries one above another in every story each chamber has three
                                                              ;



windows, two studies with one window in each, and one window between the
studies to enlighten the chamber.
  "Mr. Euston [Houston] then shewed us the Library; it is not large, but has
some good books. He then led us into the Apparatus here we saw a most beauti-
                                                          ;


ful machine,* an orrery or planetarium constructed by Mr. Rittenhouse, of Philadel-

phia.  It exhibits almost every motion in the Astronomical world       : the motions of
the sun and all the planets, with all their satellites, the eclipses of the moon, sun,
&c.   He shewed us another orrery which exhibits the true inclination of the orbit
of each of the planets to the plane of the ecliptic. He then shewed us the electri-

  * For a full                                                 " Transactions of the
               description of this machine, see vol. i. of the
American Philosophical Society."
320
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

cal apparatus, which is the most complete and elegant I have seen.             He charged a
bottle and attempted an experiment, but the state of the air was not favorable.          By
this time the bell   rang for prayers   :   we went into the chapel   ;
                                                                          the President soon
came in, and we attended. The scholars sung as badly as the Presbyterians in New
York.  After prayers the President attended us to the balcony of the College,
where we had a prospect of an horizon of about eighty miles in diameter.                We
went into the President's house and drank a glass of wine.          He is as high a son of
liberty as any man in America."


  The following important minute in reference to the finances of
the College was adopted           :




  " The Treasurer's accounts
                             being called for, it appeared necessary that the state
of the College funds should be more carefully examined and adjusted than could
be done by the Board during the present session       :
                                                          they do therefore appoint Messrs.
[W.] P. Smith, Mr. Livingston, Mr. McWhorter, Mr. Boudinot,and Mr. Calchvell,
or any three of them, a committee to meet at Princeton, on the 1 5th of August next,
at 5 o'clock P.M., and as often afterwards as they may judge necessary, to examine,

adjust, and state the College funds, and draw up a plan for the conduct of the
Treasurer, with respect to the management of the fund in his hands, and report
the same to the next meeting of the Board.     And for this purpose they have power
to call upon the Treasurer for his accounts, and for any bond and papers belonging
to the College in his hands.     And the Treasurer is ordered in the mean time to
collect all the bonds, notes, securities or their vouchers, the property of the Trus-

tees, and to do all other things in his power that will enable the Committee to form
a just estimate of the College funds."

  The committee went to work in earnest, and made a very la-
borious examination of all matters connected with the finances
of the College, and made their report in April, 1775, exhibiting
the state of the several accounts to September, 1774. Although
not chairman of the committee, Mr. Boudinot was the author
of the report, as may be inferred from what is said in a like re-
port made by him in 1793.                   (For further notice of these reports,
see Appendix.)
   The records for the year 1776 are very brief.                             Wednesday,
the 25th of September, was the day for the annual Commence-
ment, and as ten of the Trustees, including the Governor of
the State and the President of the College, were assembled
on that occasion, and as the exercises for the day had been
assigned some time before, it is highly probable that these exer-
cises were attended to in the usual manner but, as there was not
                                                               ;



a quorum of the Board present, the usual degrees could not be
conferred at this time.           The Trustees who were present agreed
                  DR. WITHERSPOON' S ADMINISTRATION.                                 *2l

to recommend that the first degree in the Arts should be con-
ferred       upon the candidates for this distinction at the next meet-
ing of the Board; and they directed their Clerk to summon the
Trustees to a meeting to be held on the third Wednesday of
the following November.
     The following N. B. is appended to the minutes for 1776:
     " The incursions of the
                                Enemy into the State and the depredations of the armies
prevented this meeting     :   and indeed all regular business in the College for two or
three years."

     This last remark shows what otherwise                    is   apparent from an
inspection of the first volume of the minutes of the Board, viz.,
that the minutes for this period were not entered at once in the
volume, but some few years after.
  The next meeting of the Board was held at Cooper's Ferry,
New Jersey, on the banks of the Delaware, May 24, 1777, Gov-
ernor Livingston, Dr. Witherspoon, and eleven other Trustees
being present.           The young gentlemen, twenty-seven in number,
who in September last, 1776, were not admitted to their first
degree in the Arts, for the want of a quorum of the Board,
                                                                    "
now received that honor    and it was resolved, That they re-
                                        ;


ceive their diplomas as soon as the confusions of the war will
admit of it."
     The following extracts are taken from the minutes of the
Board at this meeting              :



     " It was
           proposed for consideration, whether it will be expedient to collect the
students of the College and endeavor to proceed with their usual instruction.
After deliberation, Agreed, that if the enemy remove out of this State, Dr. Wither-

spoon is desired to call the students together at Princeton, and to proceed with their
education in the best manner he can, considering the state of public affairs. And
if   more students can be        collected than the Doctor can instruct himself, he     is

directed to obtain such assistance as may be necessary.
     " Dr.
             Witherspoon, Mr. Stockton, and Mr. Spencer were appointed a committee
to determine what repairs are necessary for the convenience of the students, and to
order them to be made.          But they are directed to go no further than   shall appear

requisite to save the building,        and to accommodate those students who may be
collected."
     " Dr.
             Witherspoon was desired to move the Congress to resolve that troops shall
not hereafter be quartered in the College."

  The Trustees, receiving information of the decease of Jona-
than Sergeant, Esq., the Treasurer of the College, appointed a
222
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

committee to settle with Mr. Sergeant's executors, and to take
                                                   "
charge of the College funds, and to put them into the Conti-
nental loan office," unless a more advantageous investment could
be made.    Mr. Sergeant had been Treasurer from September
26, 1750, and he had also been an active and efficient friend of
the College.  He was a son-in-law of the Rev. Jonathan Dick-
inson, the    first   President.      At this meeting, also, intelligence
was received of the decease of the Rev. William Tennent, of
Monmouth County, New Jersey, a Trustee named in the charter
given by Governor Belcher. As the preceding history shows,
Mr. Tennent was several times chosen President of the College
pro tempore, and discharged his duties to the entire satisfaction
of the Trustees and other friends of the institution.    He was
an eminently good man, and an earnest and successful minister
of the gospel.        The Rev. George Duffield was elected a Trustee
in his   room.
  The Clerk was directed to give Mr. Brainerd an order upon
Dr. Ewing, one of the executors of the late Treasurer, for the
sum of thirty pounds, two years' interest                  of three hundred

pounds lodged         in the hands of the
                                   Corporation, at the disposal
of the Synod of New York and Philadelphia, for the support of
an Indian mission, and by that body granted to Mr. Brainerd.
   There were no Commencement exercises in 1777, but the
members of the Senior class, seven in number, were subse-
quently admitted to the first degree in the Arts, and were ac-
counted graduates for this year.In an address to the public
through the newspapers, Dr. Witherspoon states these degrees
were confirmed at the next meeting of the Board and no doubt    ;



this was true, although the fact is not mentioned in the min-

utes of the meeting, which was held on the i6th of April, 1778.*
At this meeting Governor Livingston, Dr. Witherspoon, and
twelve other Trustees were present. Three new Trustees were
chosen. These were the Rev. Azel Roe, of Woodbridge, New
  * In the minutes    for   September 25, 1782, the following occurs: "Resolved,
likewise, that John Noel, Samuel Vickers, and James Hanna, alumni of the College,
who on account of the confusions of the war have not received their degree of B. A.
at the regular time, be now admitted to it."   And in September 28, 1790, an order
was passed for inserting in the catalogue for the year 1777 several names which
had been omitted in the printed catalogue.
                  DR.   WITHERSPOON^ S ADMINISTRATION.              323

Jersey, John Bayard, Esq., of Philadelphia, and Dr. Nathaniel
Scudder, of New Jersey.
                                 "
   It was    unanimously Resolved, That application be made to
the Legislature of this State to confirm the Charter," to reduce
the number requisite for a quorum, and to make such other
alterations as the late revolution and the circumstances of the

country      may render necessary.          And a committee was ap-
pointed to make a draft of a charter as conformable as possible
to the existing one, excepting the alterations just indicated.
  Mr. Joshua M. Wallace, Jr., was chosen Treasurer of the
College, but he never took upon himself the duties of the
office;and at the meeting of the Board, April 21, 1779, Wm.
Churchill Houston, Esq., was chosen Treasurer, and for some
years he discharged the duties of this office as well as those of
his Professorship.            Some years after Mr. Wallace was chosen a
Trustee of the College.
              "
  It   was agreed to present a petition to the Council, and
another to the Assembly [of the State], requesting them to
enact a law to exempt the masters and students of the College
from military duty and Dr. Witherspoon was appointed to draw
                          ;




up and to present these petitions on behalf of the Board." These
petitions were eventually granted by the Legislature.
               "
   It was also   Resolved, That an attempt shall be made to re-
vive the College studies, so long interrupted by the war;" and
Dr. Witherspoon was desired to publish in the New Jersey, Lan-
caster, and Fishkill papers that due attention will be given the
instruction of youth in the College after the loth of May next.
                          "
  It was  ordered,  That Mr. Halsey prepare a just statement
of the accounts of the last College Lottery, and lay them be-
fore the Board at their next meeting."
  There      is    in   the minutes of the Board no record of any
meeting of the Trustees at the regular time for the annual Com-
mencement, but from an account of the proceedings published
       "
in the   New Jersey Gazette" of October 21,1 778, it appears that
the Commencement exercises took place at Princeton, on Wed-
nesday, the 30th of September, and that the first degree in the
Arts was conferred upon jive members of the Senior class,
three of whom took part in the exercises.            Orations were also
224      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

pronounced by two of the candidates for the degree of Master
of Arts.
  The next meeting of the Board was held at Princeton, on
Wednesday, the 2ist of April, 1779. The embarrassed condi-
tion of the finances very naturally demanded and received the
first attention of the Board, and measures were taken to secure

the moneys due to the College, and for the soliciting of pecuni-
ary aid in Pennsylvania and in New England.                   It was also found

necessary to make further repairs to the College edifice, which
had been much injured during the time it was occupied by the
troops; and the resolutions adopted respecting the extent to
which the repairs should be made show both the injury which
had been done to the building and the low state of the College
funds.  The Trustees had petitioned Congress for a remuneration
of their losses, and they seem to have had some hope that their
claim would be allowed and paid. The sum actually received
was very small as compared with the damage done by the
American soldiery.
  William Livingston, Esq., having been chosen Governor of
the State, and thereby the President of the Board, Jonathan
Bayard Smith, Esq., of Philadelphia, was chosen a Trustee in
his room.
     The following minute shows that the Trustees were desirous
to deal liberally with the officers of the College               :




  "
    Agreed, That notwithstanding the interruption of the College exercises by the
war, their salaries shall be continued to Dr. Witherspoon and Professor Houston.
They are, however, to give as much attention to the instruction of such youth as may
be sent to the College as their circumstances and those of the place will admit, till
the building shall be repaired, and the state of public affairs will afford an oppor-

tunity to conduct the education in the College in a more complete manner."


     In September of this year the Commencement took place as
usual, and six of the students were admitted to their first de-
gree in the Arts. They all became men of more or less note                          ;



the most distinguished of them being the Hon. Richard Stock-
ton, LL.D., of Princeton, New Jersey.
     Dr. Moses Scott, of         New Brunswick, appointed an agent
to    make collections for the College in the State of Pennsyl-
vania, reported that he had collected, exclusive of his expenses,
             DR. WITHERSPOON' S ADMINISTRATION.
                                                                                325

the sum of four hundred and fifteen pounds, which he had paid
to Dr. Witherspoon.
  The most important measure taken by the Board at this time,
September 29, 1/79, was the appointment of the Rev. Samuel
S. Smith Professor of Moral Philosophy.      This appointment
was made at the suggestion of Dr. Witherspoon and the                  ;



minute respecting it is evidence that the proposal was highly
acceptable to the Trustees. The Professor elect was then at the
head of an academy, subsequently chartered under the name
of Hampden Sidney College, Prince Edward County, Virginia.
He came to Princeton, and began his duties here on the I2th
of December, 1779.
   Dr. Witherspoon offered to relinquish one-half of his salary
of four hundred pounds a year, provided the Board would make
the proposed appointment, and would allow the tuition-money
of the students for the ensuing year to himself, Professor Hous-
ton, and the Professor to be elected             ;
                                                     this to be   done with the
understanding that if they required the assistance of a Tutor in
the instruction of the students they were to pay him.
   Before     Professor Smith's arrival, notice was given in the

public papers by President Witherspoon and Professor Houston
that the vacation of the College would end on Monday, the 8th
of November, and that of the grammar-school on the 27th of
October. The latter part of the advertisement is as follows                      :




  " As there is a universal
                              complaint of the want of opportunities of educating
youth among us at present, it is proper to inform the public, that agreeably to former
advertisements, the instruction in this School and College has been regularly car-
ried on since the   enemy left the State.   The Grammar School is numerous and
flourishing, and the difficulties in the way of filling the College are now in a great
measure removed.     The repairs of the building are in great forwardness, and will
go on without interruption, so that there will be comfortable accommodations for as
many as may probably attend this fall.Tho' the number of under-graduates or
proper College members did not exceed ten, yet one or other of the subscribers
was constantly upon the spot. Now another Professor is chosen, and a tutor en-
gaged, so that parents and guardians may depend upon the utmost care being taken
of the youth.   Boarding may be had at the same price as formerly, making allow-
ance for the state of the currency.
  " The French
                   language is taught, and great attention paid to every branch of
English Education.
                              "
                                  Signed,                   JOHN WITHERSPOON,
                                                            WM. CH. HOUSTON."
326       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

      The above is taken from the " New Jersey Gazette" of the
date of October 13, 1779, published at Trenton, New Jersey.
  Four or five months after, viz., on the 24th of February, 1780,
Dr. Witherspoon prepared an address to the public, giving some
information respecting the College and the grammar-school,
which were, to use his own words, "beginning to recover from
the desolations they have suffered in consequence of the war,
as the scholars are collected from the most distant parts of the

continent, and even the West Indies." His main object, how-
ever, seems to have been to give some good advice to the
teachers and parents of youth who were preparing to enter

college. (" New Jersey Gazette" for March 15, 1780.)
  At the Commencement held on Wednesday, the 27th of Sep-
tember, 1780, the Trustees had a meeting as usual on such
occasions, and conferred the first degree in the Arts upon six
candidates for this honor.  At this and at the preceding Com-
mencement premiums were awarded to the successful compet-
itors for them in the matters of grammar, syntax, etc., of the

Latin and English languages.
                                                           "
   Dr. Witherspoon reported to the Board                       that the Legislature
have passed an act confirming the charter of the College, but
have not thought proper to lessen the quorum."
  " The Rev. Robert Smith
                              reported that himself and others had taken some pains
in Pennsylvania to make collections of money for the College ; and he delivered to
the Board two hundred and thirty-eight pounds ten shillings, which were collected in
the Forks of the Brandywine, and paid to Dr. Witherspoon."
  " Dr. Witherspoon proposed, that if the Board would continue the salary of four
hundred pounds to himself and Professor Smith, with the tuition-money, they would
procure a sufficient number of tutors to carry on the instruction of the College with-
out any further expense to this Board."
  "
     Resolved, That the Board do agree to the above proposal."
   " Dr.
         Witherspoon was directed to state an account against the public for the rents
of the College while it was used by their agents as a barracks and hospital, and to
endeavor to recover the money as soon as possible."
  " Mr.
         Halsey was desired to settle the accounts of the last College Lottery speedily;



and in the first place to call in and pay out all debts due to or from the Lottery, par-
ticularly to discharge the debt due to Mr.   Geddes, and then to lay the whole of the
accounts before Mr. Boudinot, who was empowered to settle with him on behalf of
the Board."

  The Mr. Geddes here named had drawn a prize of several
hundred pounds in the last lottery, the payment of which was
           DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.
                                                               327

deferred for some years, owing no doubt, in a great measure, to
the failure to raise funds at this time through the lottery. The
settlement of Mr. Geddes's claim gave the Board much trouble.
One happy result of this was, that no further effort was made
for thirty years to obtain authority to draw another lottery for
the benefit of the College, and, more happily still, the only other
endeavor to obtain permission to draw one was unsuccessful.
This last application for a lottery was made in 1813 or 1814,
and was denied; but not from any scruple of conscience on the
part of the members of the Legislature, for while they refused
permission to the College of New Jersey they allowed the
Trustees of Queen's College, now Rutgers, to raise by lottery
for the resuscitation of that institution   some twenty or thirty
thousand dollars.
  The next meeting of the Board was held on the 3Oth of May,
1781, and in the mean time three of the Trustees had died.
These were the Hon. Richard Stockton, the- Rev. Jeremiah
Halsey, and the Rev. John Brainerd and in their room the
                                        ;



Board elected his Excellency Joseph Reed, Esq., President of
the State of Pennsylvania, the Rev. Dr. Alexander McWhorter,
who had returned to Newark from the South, and the Rev.
James Boyd.
  The Board continued their sessions to next day. " The Rev.
James Caldwell laid before the Board his account current with
the corporation, containing an account of the moneys received
and paid by him as one of the committee for managing the
treasury since May 26, 1777." This account was referred to
the committee for collecting and stating an account of the funds.
It is evident that Mr. Caldwell, who had taken an active part

in soliciting funds for the College, and who at this time was the
Clerk of the Board, had the principal share of the labor assigned
to the committee charged with the duties of the Treasurer.     It

is also evident, from the arrangement made with the President

and the Professors of the College with respect to the tuition-
fees, that the income of the College from this source was al-

together inadequate to the support of the President and Pro-
fessors,   their salaries amounting to six hundred pounds a

year.    And two-thirds of this sum, if not the whole of the six
328
               HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

hundred pounds, were payable in coin, and not in the currency
of that time, as appears from the following minute                          :




  " In the
                 agreement made with Dr. Witherspoon last September, the minutes do
not express in what kind of money he was to be paid      ;
                                                             it   is   therefore now agreed,
in the presence of Dr. Witherspoon, that he is to receive his salary in gold and silver,
and not in current paper money of a depreciated value, which he has voluntarily
agreed to receive his salary in for the two years preceding."


      Hence, in view of the funds requisite to pay the salaries of
the officers of the College, to meet the incidental expenses, and
to make the extensive repairs which were necessary to render
the College edifice fit for the purposes of its erection, it must
be obvious that there was need of large pecuniary assistance
from the friends of the institution to meet all the yearly expenses
and sustain the high standing and character which the College
had attained as a place for the education of youth. Funds were
solicited and liberally given   not for a permanent endowment,
                                         ;



but for the meeting of pressing wants and immediate liabili-
ties; and by means of these generous gifts the Trustees were
enabled to maintain a Faculty composed of able men and of
accomplished instructors equal to any in the land.
   At this time " a proposal was laid before the Board, signed by William C. Houston
and Samuel S. Smith, for conferring both the higher and the intermediate degrees
in Theology and Law, in some method similar to those practised by the Universities
in Europe, together with a draught of a plan for that purpose."


      It       was   read,   and the consideration of it deferred.                   At the
next meeting of the Board it was referred to a committee con-
sisting of Governor Livingston, Dr. Witherspoon, Mr. Boudinot,
and Mr. Spencer, to consider and report thereon. The com-
mittee appear to have made a favorable report, but what were
its   peculiar features is not known, as the plan is not given in the
minutes of the Board.*
  From the beginning, one of the Trustees had been chosen
Clerk of the Board whenever a vacancy occurred in that office.

     * At the
              meeting held September 25, 1787, the Board adopted the following reso-
lution    " That no         be admitted to the       of Doctor in         or Doctor
           :
                         person                degree                     Divinity
of Laws unless with the consent of two-thirds of the members present."                But this
resolution, as inconsistent with the charter, was repealed in 1794.
                DR.    WITHER SPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.                 329

But at this meeting a motion was made to choose a Clerk who
should not be one of the Board; "many inconveniences having
arisen from one of the members officiating in that department,
the   same was agreed to, and the Rev. Samuel S. Smith was
unanimously chosen to that office."
  The selecting of a member of the Faculty to discharge the
duties of Clerk to the Board was continued until the year 1823,
when the Trustees resolved to make another change, and they
chose one of their own number, then a resident of Princeton,
their Clerk.          Since that time the Clerks of the Board have been
selected from the body of the Trustees.
   It was resolved to petition the Legislature again for an alter-

ation in the charter, by which the number requisite for a quo-
rum should be lessened, and also to ask the General Assembly
"to prevent the quartering of troops in the College, which is
frequently practised."
  "
    Mr. Boudinot having offered to the Board the draft of a
petition to that purpose, Ordered, That it be signed by the
President of the Board, and delivered into the hands of Dr.
Scudder to be presented to the Assembly."
                                                            "
  Two years after, the following minute occurs          :       The honor-
able Legislature of this State, in consequence of an application
made to them by the Board through Dr. N. Scudder, have been
pleased to pass a law enabling the Board to hold its sessions by
smaller quorums than formerly." This alteration in the charter
made nine members of the Board regularly convened a quorum,
provided the President of the Board, the President of the Col-
lege, or the eldest Trustee, were one of the. nine. The act as
now passed was limited to five years ; but it was subsequently
re-enacted and made perpetual.
  At the Commencement of 1781, six young gentlemen were
admitted to the degree of Bachelor of the Arts, five of whom
had pursued their studies           at Princeton   and had passed the
usual examinations.   The sixth, who was from Virginia, had
completed his studies under the care of Professor Smith. The
Commencement this year took place on the 26th of September.
  "
    The Committee of Repairs reported that they had not been
able to effect much in repairing the College, through a failure
      VOL. I.   22
33O      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

of the remittances that were ordered at the last session of the
Board."       Whereupon the following order was passed                  :




  "
    Ordered, That every pupil who shall hereafter enter the College shall pay
entrance money of one guinea, which, together with the rents of the chambers, shall
be appropriated by the Treasurer as a fund to discharge the expense of such repairs
as shall be judged to be indispensably necessary in the College.       And as these
moneys will arise too slowly to answer the demands of the workmen, President
Reed [of Pennsylvania] and Colonel Bayard are requested and authorized to borrow
the necessary sum on the credit of the said fund."


   This they were unable to do, and so reported at the next
meeting of the Board. But they themselves generously ad-
vanced towards the repairs the sum of thirty-nine pounds,
which was repaid to them by credits on the College bills of
their sons.

  " Dr.
        Witherspoon was requested to do his utmost to recover payment of the
account against the United States, given to Congress, pursuant to an order of the
Board, September 27, 1780, and was empowered to receive it in the name of the
Trustees, and to carry it to their credit in the account of salary."


  Two days after the Commencement, viz., on the 28th of Sep-
tember, 1781, Dr. Witherspoon prepared a communication ad-
dressed to the public on the condition of the College and with
respect to the provision made for the teaching and boarding of
                                        "
the students.   It was published in the   New Jersey Gazette"
for October 10, 1781.
   The following         are the     more important of the             particulars
mentioned     :



   1. That a considerable part of the College is already re-


paired, and that the Trustees have given directions for the
completion of the repairs without delay; and that, as formerly,
the under-graduates would be required to lodge in the Col-
lege building, unless exempted by special permission from the
President.
   2.That board would be furnished by the Steward of the Col-
                    sum of ten shillings a week, and that no
lege for the moderate
student would be permitted to board out of College without
express license from the President, or, in his absence, from the
senior Professor.

   3.   That every new scholar, at            his first   coming to College,
              DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.                                              33*

must pay one guinea entrance, and at the rate of six pounds
per annum tuition, and two pounds per annum for chamber
rent  and that the charges for tuition and board must be paid
      ;




every six months in advance, and that punctuality in making
these advance payments would be rigidly insisted on.
  The most particular and doubtless the most accurate account
of the condition of the College edifice at this time is one given
by the Rev. Dr. Ashbel Green, who was President of the Col-
lege from 1812 to 1822.  It is contained in an address before

the Alumni Association in 1840, in which he says:

  "I entered this College on the Qth of May, 1782.          .    .   .   The College buildings
                                          [Nassau Hall], the President's house, and
at that time consisted only of this edifice

a dwelling for the Steward, originally constructed for a College kitchen, and then
used as such, although the family of the Steward had their residence in it. The
lower and upper stories of this edifice still remained in the ruined state in which
they had been   left   by the British and American armies, entirely uninhabited and
uninhabitable, except that on the lowest story [now the cellar], at the east end, Dr.
Witherspoon had fitted up a room for his grammar-school, and opposite to it, on
the south side, another room was so far repaired as to be used for a dining-room,
and in the fourth story [now the third] the Cliosophic Society had repaired one of
the half-rooms in the north projection of the College, in which their meetings were
held.    The Whig Society was not reorganized till the summer of my first session in
the College, and in its reorganization I had a leading part.      In the two middle
entries [the present cellar being then the first or lowest story], rooms enough had
been repaired to accommodate all the students, whose whole number was, I believe,
little, and but a little turned of forty. Some of the rooms in these entries still lay
waste, and the whole building still exhibited the effects of General Washington's
artillery, who, in   the battle of Princeton, caused   it   to   be      fired   upon to drive out
British troops who had taken refuge in it."


   The annual Commencement for 1782 was held on the 25th of
September of that year.              Eleven candidates were admitted to
the first degree in the Arts.
   At a meeting of the Board at this time, Mr. Isaac Snowden,
of Philadelphia, and the Rev. Jonathan Elmer, of Essex County,
New Jersey, were chosen Trustees, in the room of Dr. Nathaniel
Scudder and the Rev. James Caldwell, both deceased.*

  * The deaths of these excellent men are remarkable for the manner of their oc-
currence.   Both were killed instantly,       Dr. Scudder by a musket-ball fired by one
of a refugee party, from whom the doctor and his associates were endeavoring to
rescue some of their friends, who by this party had been taken prisoners and carried
 332
             HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
  " Dr.
        Witherspoon represented to the Board the pains he had taken to have the
accounts of the College against the United States given in to Congress, pursuant to
an order of the Board of September 27, 1780.       Resolved, That Dr. Witherspoon
take that account into his own hands and endeavor to compound it with the States,
or otherwise turn it to the best advantage in his power and carry it to the credit of
the Trustees.
  " Messrs.
                John Bayard, Elias Boudinot, and Jonathan B. Smith were appointed
to settle the old account between Dr. Witherspoon and the Trustees, previous to the

year 1775."

       From an examination of the Treasurer's accounts, it appeared
that the bonds  and the certificates of stock, with the interest
due on them, amounted to the sum of ^341 1.0.3. The balance
in the hands of the Treasurer at this date was ,13.18.
   The following minutes are among the records of this meet-
ing      :




   "
    Ordered, That the Treasurer do pay to Dr. Witherspoon on account six hun-
dred pounds, including two hundred and seventeen pounds already paid to him
by a bond on Mr. Elias Woodruff" (Steward of the College).
  This bond was returned to the Board, with their consent.
  "
    Resolved, That the management of the College be continued in the hands of
Dr. Witherspoon, in the same manner as it has been ever since the confusions of
the war."
  "
        Ordered, That the Treasurer do immediately write to every obligor in arrear
for interest on their respective bonds, that unless the interest is discharged without

delay their bonds will be put into suit without further notice, which he is to do
accordingly,   the moneys arising therefrom to be applied to discharge the Presi-
dent's salary."



off from Colt's Neck,   Monmouth County, New Jersey. His death occurred on the
1 6th   of October, 1781. It was said of him,
                                              " Few men have fallen in this
                                                                            country
that were so useful, or so generally mourned for in death."     His pastor, the Rev.
John Woodhull, a Trustee of the College, preached at his funeral a sermon from
the words, " And all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah, and Jeremiah
lamented for him."
  Mr. Caldwell was killed by a sentinel at Elizabeth town Point, to which place he
had gone to meet and to conduct to the town a sister of one of his parishioners, who
was expected from New York in a flag-sloop. As Mr. Caldwell was about to step
on board the sloop to return a small bundle which had been handed to him with
the request that he would take it to the town, his murderer ordered him to stop,
and upon his doing so the soldier presented his musket and shot him. He fell and
expired immediately. He was an earnest and active patriot, as well as an able and
devoted minister of the gospel. His wife was shot by a British soldier on the 8th
of June, 1780. Both husband and wife were highly respected and greatly beloved.
Mr. Caldwell's murderer was tried and executed.
                     DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.                              333

  These orders show the confidence reposed in Dr. Wither-
spoon, and also the low state of the College revenues.
     "   A letter from his Excellency John Dickinson, Esq., Governor of the Delaware
State, to the President of the College, to be communicated to the Trustees, was read,

enclosing a promissory note for ^100, and proposing that the interest of so much of
it as the Trustees may judge proper might annually, or as often as they approve,

be applied in procuring a gold or silver medal to be bestowed upon the student
who shall compose the best dissertation on some one of the following subjects, viz.     :



     " I.     A zeal for religion clear of bigotry and enthusiasm.
     " 2.     A liberality of sentiment untainted by licentiousness.
     "3.      A purity of manners free from censorial austerity.
     "        What are the most proper measures to be adopted by a government for pro-
         4.

moting and establishing habits of piety and virtue among a people?
  "
    5. No one or more of the United States cart ever derive so much happiness
from a dissolution of the Union as from its continuance.
     " The direction of the
                                whole, together with a power of changing the subjects, to
be vested in the Board.
  "
    Resolved, That the Board do accept of the donation, and that a letter of thanks
be written to Governor Dickinson, in the name of the Trustees, and signed by the
President."

     The following are the only other minutes in which mention
is   made of the Dickinson medal for thirty-four years:
   September 24, 1783. "According to the tenor of Governor Dickinson's dona-
tion last Fall, a partial meeting of the Trustees in the Spring appointed as the

subject to be written upon for his medal the fourth question proposed by him,
viz.,  What are the most proper measures to be adopted by a government for pro-
         '




moting and establishing habits of piety and virtue among a people ?' One dis-
sertation only appearing before the Board, the President was directed to republish
the subject, and to invite the students to enter into this competition, and to bring
in their dissertations at the next examinations for degrees, or at the utmost against
the next        Commencement     ;
                                     and the President and the Professor of Divinity and
Moral Philosophy were directed to provide a medal, with proper devices, to be
given on the occasion."
   September 29 and 30, 1784. "The medal given by Dr. Dickinson, President
of the State of Pennsylvania, was adjudged to Mr. Joseph Clay, of the present
Senior class, for the best dissertation on the subject proposed by the Board at their
last stated           *
          meeting."
     "
    Ordered, That the subject to be proposed for the medal next year be the
second mentioned in the letter accompanying Dr. Dickinson's donation, viz., 'A
liberality of      sentiment untainted by licentiousness."


  * Mr.
         Clay was a native of Georgia. After leaving College he studied law,
and became an eminent jurist, and U. S. District Judge for his native State. In
1801 he became a Baptist preacher. Mr. Clay's dissertation was published with a
dedicatory preface to Governor Dickinson.
334
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

   September 28, 1785. "Whereas there was but one dissertation for Dr. Dickin-
son's medal produced, and that not in proper time to have the same examined and
a judgment formed upon it at present, Resolved, That it be referred to the Faculty
of the College for their decision ; and that all future dissertations for medals be

brought in to the Faculty at or before the last examination of the Senior class,
that a judgment may be formed upon the same in proper season, and the victor
be publicly announced on the day of commencement.
   "
     Ordered, That the subject to be competed on for Dr. Dickinson's medal be the
third contained in his letter to the Board, viz., A purity of manners free from cen-
                                                 '




sorial
                "
       austerity.'
                              "
  September 23 and 24, 1788.    Ordered, That the subject to be competed on for
Dr. Dickinson's medal be the following   No one or more of the United States
                                         :
                                             '




can ever derive so much happiness from a dissolution of the Union as from its
continuance.'
                "

  September 29 and 30, 1789. "On the subject of Dr. Dickinson's and Dr.
Minto's medals, Resolved, That the Faculty of the College be empowered to
examine the essays that have been produced, and decree the said medals accord-
ing to their judgment."

   Dr. Minto's medal, of the value of five pounds, was for the
best essay or dissertation on either of the following topics                  :




  1.   The unlawfulness and impolicy of capital punishments, and the best method
of reforming criminals and making them useful to society.
  2.   The unlawfulness and impolicy of African slavery, and the best means of
abolishing it in the United States, and of promoting the happiness of free negroes.

  The form of expression used in the last minute, viz., that of
September 30, 1789, indicates that there were some competi-
tors for the medals named, but how many is not said or known.
   One thing is certain           in   regard to competitions for these
medals, that they ceased to take place, and most probably from
an unwillingness on the part of the students to engage in them,
and that the Trustees, finding this to be the case, ceased to pro-
pose any more topics for handling and for competition. These
competitions, it is evident, were not favorites with the students,
and it is by no means improbable that they came to an end with
the tacit if not with a formal consent of Governor Dickinson,
whose death did not take place until February, 1808, and the
last that we hear of any competitions for his medal was in Sep-

tember, 1789, more than eighteen years before his death.
  According to the terms of Governor Dickinson's letter, it
was left to the        discretion of the Trustees           how much of the
interest of his      promissory note for one hundred pounds should
            DR.   WITHERSPOOWS ADMINISTRATION.               335

be expended   for a medal, and   how often, his proposition being
this: "that the interest of so   much of it as the Trustees may
judge proper might annually, or as often as they apprwe, be ap-
                                                 After a fair and
plied in procuring a gold or silver medal,"
                                            etc.

full trial for several years, the matter was dropped  ;
                                                       and there
is no evidence that Governor Dickinson ever expressed any

dissatisfaction with the action or non-action of the Board in

regard to it.
  At the Commencement of 1783, fourteen candidates were
admitted to their first degree in the Arts.
  This was a memorable occasion in the history of the College,
rendered so by the presence of General Washington, of the
National Congress, and of two foreign Ministers. Driven from
Philadelphia by a turbulent corps of soldiers, Congress had
assembled  at Princeton, and they held their sessions in the

library-room of the College, which was in the front projection,
and on what is now the second or middle story of the build-
ing.  This room has been divided into two by the passage-way
leading from the front door of the edifice to the large room
in the rear. This alteration was made upon the rebuilding of
Nassau Hall after the fire of March, 1855.
   During the time that Congress held its sessions at Princeton,
Dr. Boudinot, a Trustee of the College, was the President of
that body.   "As a compliment to the College, to their own
President, as well as to the President of the College, who had
recently been one of their own members, Congress determined
to adjourn and to attend the Commencement."
  The Valedictory orator on this occasion was Ashbel Green,
the same who for many years was a Trustee of the College,
and for ten years its President. The exercises were held in the
First Presbyterian Church, then the only one in Princeton. At
the close of his Valedictory, Mr. Green made an address of
some length to General Washington. Speaking of this occur-
rence, in his account of Dr. Witherspoon's administration, Dr.
Green observes that his address to the General "was received
with manifest feeling and next day he met me in the entry of
                      ;



the College as he was going to a committee-room of Congress,
took   me by the hand, walked with me a short time, flattered
336
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

me a little, and desired me to present his best respects to my
classmates, and his best wishes for their success in life. There
had never been such an audience at a Commencement before,
and perhaps there never will be again. Dr. Witherspoon was
of course highly gratified."
  The only business transacted by the Board on that day, after
the Commencement exercises, was the adoption of the following
minute       :




     " The Board
                 being desirous to give some testimony of their high respect for the
character of his Excellency General Washington, who has so auspiciously con-
ducted the armies of America,
  "
    Resolved, That the Rev. Drs. Witherspoon, Rodgers, and Johnes be a com-
mittee to wait upon his Excellency to request him to sit for his picture, to be taken

by Mr. Charles Wilson Peale, of Philadelphia. And that his portrait when finished
be placed in the Hall of the College, in the room of the picture of the late King
of Great Britain [George the Second], which was torn away by a ball from the
American artillery in the battle of Princeton."

     On the following day " Dr. Witherspoon reported to the
Board that his Excellency General Washington had delivered
to him fifty guineas, which he begged the Trustees to accept
as a testimony of his respect for the College."                   The following
resolution was then passed            :




     "
    Resolved, That the Board accept it, and that the same committee who were
appointed to solicit his Excellency's picture do at the same time present to him
the thanks of the Board for this instance of his politeness and generosity."


     As provided for in the above resolution, General Washing-
ton's portrait, in full length, was painted              by Mr. Peale, and in
the background of the painting there is a representation of
the battle of Princeton, and a portrait of General Mercer, who
fellmortally wounded at this battle. General Mercer is repre-
sented as lying upon the ground, supported by an officer sup-
posed to be a surgeon, and standing by this officer there is
another bearing the American flag. It is said that General
Mercer had a brother who strongly resembled him in appear-
ance, and that Mr. Peale availed himself of this resemblance
in painting his picture of the general. The portrait was placed
in the old       College Chapel.
         From the position of the American army, of the College
                DR. WITHERSPOON' S ADMINISTRATION.                                337

building, and of the portrait of the King in the College Chapel,
it may readily have been that the portrait was destroyed by a

cannon-ball       ;
                      and from the above minute            it   appears that this
was the received tradition in regard to it.                It is  known that the
building was struck in different places by cannon-balls during
the affair at Princeton and one may have entered the chapel,
                                ;



where the portrait of his Majesty was hanging, and destroyed
it. But, be this as it may, the portrait was destroyed, and the
frame, regilded, now contains a full-length portrait of General
Washington. The portrait of his Majesty was presented to the
College by Governor Belcher, to whom the College was in-
debted for its second charter and for his liberality and earnest
devotion to its interests.
   Professor Houston, having engaged in the practice of the law,
resigned his offices of Treasurer and of Professor of Mathematics
and Natural Philosophy. The thanks of the Board were pre-
sented to him for his past services.             Professor Smith was chosen
Treasurer in the room of Professor Houston.
   " Dr.
           Witherspoon proposed to the Trustees that they ought now to take the pro-
vision of teachers upon themselves; the minute of September 29, 1779, should be

revised, and that it should be entered      record that his proposal in the first
                                          upon
                                                                       the whole time
part of the minute was intended to be permanent ; and that during
that Professor Smith shall continue in his office, one-half of his salary shall be paid
to said Professor;    and that in the event of death or resignation, or in any other
way his ceasing to be in that office, the President's salary shall return to its former
channel.
  "
    Resolved, That the Board do approve of this proposal and interpretation,
which they consider as an act of generosity towards this corporation and that Dr.
                                                                        ;



Smith do hereafter draw for that part of his salary according to the established
mode.
  " The Board
               taking into their attention the provision necessary to be made for
Dr. Smith, and considering his situation as the immediate representative of the
College, and in the President's house exposed to more expense than usual in his
office,   Resolved, That two hundred pounds per annum be allowed him additional
to the sum which he already draws out of the former salary of the President."


    Dr. Witherspoon had removed from the President's house to
his own private residence, known under the name of Tusculum,
about a mile and a half from the College, and on a road run-
ning northward from the main street of the town, and directly
opposite the College.
338       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  Mr. James Riddle, who had been Tutor in the College since
the war, resigned his office and, the Trustees deeming it best
                                    ;



to employ two Tutors rather than one, Messrs. Ashbel       Green
and Samuel Beach were elected to that office.
  For reasons assigned in the minute on the subject, the students
were, by a resolution of the Board, prohibited from attending
any dancing-school.
   Dr. Witherspoon gave in his account with the Trustees, which
was examined and approved, and from which it appeared that
the College was indebted to him in the sum of ^"881.13.3.
   The committee to examine the account were Messrs. William
Peartree Smith and John Bayard.
   An extra meeting of the Board was held on the 22d of Octo-
ber, 1783.  The principal object of the meeting was "to con-
sider and adopt measures for repairing the funds of the College,
which have been so greatly injured during the late war."
  " It
         appearing that the necessities of the institution could not admit of any
further delay, and that the favorable dispositions of the people ofEurope towards
America afforded a promising prospect of supplying them, by applying to their
generosity, Resolved, That a mission be sent thither as soon as possible for the
purpose of soliciting benefactions for the College."

  Dr. Witherspoon and General Reed were requested to under-
take the mission, to which they were pleased to consent.
   The following minute shows the low condition of the College
treasury at this time      :




  " It
      being necessary that the debt due from the corporation to Dr. Witherspoon
should be discharged, in order to enable him to undertake the voyage, and the
treasury not being in a condition to answer this demand immediately, Messrs.
Snowden and Bayard offered to advance to him, on the credit of the Board, any
moneys that might be necessary to equip him for his voyage.
   "
     Resolved, That these gentlemen have the thanks of the Board, and their offer
be accepted, and that they be empowered to draw upon the commissioners in Europe
for the sum which they may advance ; and that, in all events, the
                                                                  treasury of the
College be answerable for that sum.
   "
     Resolved, That all other expenses which may be incurred by the commissioners
in the execution of their mission be allowed to them out of the
                                                                College treasury.
   " General Reed was
                         pleased to offer to the Board to serve them in England
without any expense to the corporation.   Ordered, That the thanks of the Board be
presented to General Reed for this generous proposal."

   The mission accomplished nothing.                Dr. Witherspoon visited
                     DR. WITHERSPOON' S ADMINISTRATION.
                                                                                         339

Scotland, and obtained in all not more than what was just suf-
ficient to          meet his expenses.            It   does not appear that General
Reed obtained anything for the College.                            The matter of sur-
prise is, that they and the other Trustees ever imagined that
there was ground for a reasonable hope that any funds could
be collected  in Great Britain at that time for an American

College, and  that College the one most distinguished for the
rebel character of its President and guardians.
  The following extract from the commission given by the
Board to Dr. Witherspoon and General Reed shows in strong
language the depressed condition of the College finances                             :




  " Whereas the                       New Jersey was founded by private liberality for the
                        College of
promotion of religion and learning, and had by the blessing of Heaven arisen to an
eminent degree of reputation and usefulness before the late unhappy war; but
being occupied as barracks by the contending armies, its library and philosoph-
ical apparatus destroyed, the funds of the College for the support of professors and

masters, in consequence of the ravages and events of war, sunk              and almost anni-
hilated, the very existence of this benevolent and useful institution is become doubt-
ful       unless   some certain and   effectual relief   can be obtained from the friends of
virtue and literature who have not been exposed to such dreadful calamities."


     was resolved to present a congratulatory address to his
      It

Excellency       Van Berkel, Ambassador from the States of
the United Netherlands to the United States of America; and
by request Dr. Witherspoon prepared an address, which was
agreed to by the Board. His Excellency was present at the
recent Commencement.     In the address reference was made to
the name of the principal edifice as derived from Holland.
      In view of Dr. Smith's state of health, they deemed it im-
prudent for him to take charge of the College pulpit during the
absence of Dr. Witherspoon, and they therefore resolved to ask
supplies for the pulpit from the Presbyteries of New Brunswick
and of New York.
      The following minute in regard to Governor Belcher's por-
trait was adopted at this                meeting of the Board           :




      "
    The Trustees, being extremely sorry that the picture of his Excellency Governor
Belcher, which hung in the College Hall, has been destroyed during the late war,
appointed Mr. William P. Smith to endeavor to procure an original painting from
some of the remaining friends or relations of the family in New England, or if that
should be impracticable, then to procure the best copy that shall be in his power,
34          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

that it may be placed where his picture formerly hung, as a testimony of the grati-
tude of the Board for the eminent services formerly rendered by his Excellency to
this institution."


     Mr. Smith's efforts to obtain another portrait were not at-
tended with the desired success. At this time there is a por-
       the Governor, a copy of one in the picture-gallery of
trait of

the Athenaeum in Boston. The copy was made at the expense
of the late Professor George M. Giger, and by him presented
to the College.
   The next Commencement of the College occurred on the 2Qth
of September, 1784.            On this occasion the Trustees, as usual,
held a meeting.        Twenty-seven candidates were admitted to the
first     degree in the Arts.

  " The Rev. Ezra
                     Stiles, President of Yale College, and   Doctor of Divinity in the
University of Edinburgh, was admitted ad eundem in this College, and the degree
of Doctor of Civil and Canon Laws [LL.D.] was conferred on the Rev. Doctor
Stiles, and on the Honorable Samuel Spencer, Esq., Chief Justice of the State of
North Carolina.
   " Messrs. Wm. P. Smith and Robert
                                         Ogden, Esqrs., the Committee appointed to
examine and make report on Dr. Witherspoon's account of receipts and disburse-
ments in his mission to Europe on behalf of the College, reported that such was the
disposition of the people in Europe in general, and in Great Britain particularly,
that, notwithstanding the most faithful and prudent exertions, it was impossible to
effect anything of importance in that country for the benefit of the College   and
                                                                                 ;



that, after an examination of the credits and debits of his account, they found a

balance, in favor of the College, of only five pounds fourteen shillings."


   These credits included the money advanced by Messrs. Snow-
den and Bayard to enable Dr. Witherspoon to go to Europe.
                           "
  Dr. Witherspoon reported, That when he left Europe, he and
General Reed^devolved their trust on a number of gentlemen
in Britain, who engaged themselves, as far as should be in their

power, to accomplish the object of their mission, and to make
what collections they should be able on behalf of the College,
and to remit it to the order of the Board." Whereupon it was
          "
resolved,   That Dr. Witherspoon be appointed to correspond
with those gentlemen relative to the subject of the trust de-
volved upon them, and to make report thereon, from time to
time, to this Board." It does not appear from the minutes that

any report was ever made.
               DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.
                                                                                  34!

  The European mission proving to be a failure, the Trustees
next sought the aid of the Presbyteries composing the Synod
of New York and Philadelphia.                  The minute of this action is
as follows     :




  " The
          Board, observing with extreme     affliction the   unsuccessful result of the

European mission, determined to make one more application to the charity and
generosity of the people in America, for whose general use the institution was
founded, and to which it is still faithfully dedicated; and in the first place to apply
to the several Presbyteries that compose the Synod of New York and Philadelphia,

entreating them to exert themselves with industry and zeal for the support of an in-
stitution so serviceable to the general interests of religion, which they have devoted
themselves to promote.    And resolved, That a memorial on this head be addressed
to the Moderators of the several Presbyteries in the name of the Board, in the terms

following  :


  " The memorial of the Trustees of the
                                        College of New Jersey to the several
Presbyteries composing the    Synod of New York and Philadelphia sheweth, That
among the ruinous consequences of the late war, in the depreciation of the con-
tinental money and destruction of the College buildings, the funds and revenues
under the care of your memorialists have been almost annihilated.        That in order
to re-establish these, and to repair their buildings, and to carry on the designs of
the institution, application hath been lately made to obtain assistance from the
friends of literature in Europe ; but, unhappily, your memorialists have, from

sundry unexpected causes, failed in their foreign solicitations, and have not ob-
tained even so much as to defray the expenses of the undertaking. It is therefore
become absolutely necessary to make a general application to the friends of religion
and learning in this country who wish success to an institution of so much impor-
tance to our civil and religious interests. Your memorialists have in consequence
deemed it a proper measure to apply themselves to the respective Presbyteries
belonging to the Synod of New York and Philadelphia, wishing to impress them
with a lively persuasion of the necessity of a general exertion throughout all our
churches for the support of this College under its present state of depression. Your
memorialists must refer to your wisdom the methods most proper and prudent to

pursue in soliciting the aid of the people under your respective charges, and in
making such personal or public applications throughout your several churches and
districts as shall be judged best and likely to be most effectual.
  "
      By order of the Board of Trustees.        JOHN WITHERSPOON, President."

  The writer has given this memorial in full, and has under-
                        "
scored the expression     throughout all our churches," that
the reader may see that the Trustees of 1784, as well as their
predecessors, recognized their close and intimate relations to
the Presbyterian Church of this country. May their successors
in office never forget it or disregard it            !




   On the 2d of August there was a special meeting of the
342         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY,
               "
Board.     The principal object of the meeting was to consider
of and adopt measures for the augmentation of the funds of
the institution and for the reimbursement of those gentlemen
                     ;



who advanced the necessary moneys to Dr. Witherspoon for
his arrears of salary, and for defraying the expenses of his mis-
sion to Europe on behalf of the College."
     Several committees were appointed to solicit funds in        New
Jersey and in Pennsylvania, and the Trustees residing in the
city of Philadelphia were empowered to vest such proportion
of the unfunded securities subscribed as they may think proper
in lands lying in Pennsylvania.   Two contingent bequests of
one hundred pounds each, for the support of poor scholars at
the College, by Mr. William McConkey, of Monmouth, New
Jersey, were reported at this meeting.
  Dr. Witherspoon was requested to prepare and present to
the Board at their next meeting a statement of the accounts
of the College from the time that his ledger was discontinued
to the time then present.        He was also authorized to settle with
the executors of the late Rev. Mr. Caldwell, and to give them
a final discharge upon the receipt of the balance due to the
College.
     A committee was appointed to direct and assist the Treasurer
in calling in all the   outstanding debts of the Corporation, and
to vest       them in public securities, funded on the excise or
other certain revenues in Pennsylvania. In case the money
due upon any of the bonds could not be recovered in time for
such investment, the committee were required to get a renewal
of such bonds, with sufficient securities.
   The next Commencement was held on the 28th of Septem-
ber, 1785.   Ten candidates were admitted to their first degree
in the Arts.   The Rev. John Mason having tendered his resig-
nation,  and  the Honorable Joseph Reed and the Rev. Dr.
Elihu Spencer having departed this life since the last meeting
of the Board, John Beatty, Esq., the Rev. William Mackay
Tennent, and the Rev. Alexander Miller were chosen Trustees
of the College.
     "
         Dr. Witherspoon delivered to the Board ninety-two dollars
in       liquidated final settlement securities, a subscription to the
               DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.                                 343

funds of the College, received of Dr. Benjamin Rush, of Phila-
delphia."
   Mr. Stephen Cook, of the island of Bermuda, was requested
to take one or  more of the subscription papers prepared by
order of the Board, and to make application to the inhabitants
of that island for aid in behalf of the College.
   In their pecuniary embarrassment the Trustees availed them-
selves of every possible chance of obtaining funds for the sup-

port of the College.  Many of their efforts resulted in very
little or nothing but the result of the whole was that they
                        ;



were enabled to carry on the instruction of the College with-
out any further interruption, although often                in   great straits for
funds.  It was in view of existing difficulties that they adopted

the following minute         :




  " The Trustees
                  pressed with the difficulties of supporting the necessary officers
of the College, and considering that the tuition and the rent of the institution have
not been raised in any proportion to the increased prices of other articles since the
war, Resolved, That two pounds per      annum shall be levied upon each student in
addition to the present rates, under the title of rent."


   Mr. Ashbel Green,             at this    time the senior Tutor           in   the
College, was chosen Professor of Mathematics and Natural
Philosophy, with a salary of one hundred and fifty pounds
per annum.
   The following order was made:
  "
      Ordered, That if any collections can be made by the friends of the College in
the Board, or elsewhere, for the education of poor and pious youths for the gospel

ministry, it shall be sacredly appropriated to that purpose alone ; the Board taking
from every young person so educated an obligation, that if he shall afterwards
enter into any other lucrative profession, he will refund to this corporation the

moneys expended in his instruction and provision."


   This the writer regards as an unwise measure.                       If we     can
suppose a young man disingenuous enough to avail himself of
aid from such a fund to enable him to obtain a liberal educa-
tion, he having no intention to enter the ministry, he will
readily devise ways and means to escape from any obligation,
written or oral, to repay the money so obtained. But if a poor
youth enter upon his studies with the intention of entering the
344
           inSTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

ministry, and, on account of failure of health, or from a con-
viction that he was not called of God to the work of the min-

istry, should give himself to some other calling, he ought
not to be required to refund the money given to him.          He
acted in good faith in receiving the proffered aid, and in giving
up his studies for the ministry he continues to act honestly, and
no such impediment should be put in the way of his following
the dictates of a good conscience by laying upon him, while
yet a poor youth, an obligation to refund the moneys thus far
advanced for his education.             Should he engage in another pro-
fession, or in     some profitable employment, he would, without
any such written obligation, refund, if in his power to do so,
with a due regard to higher obligations, what he received in
the way of help, as some educated at this College have done,
or expend in the assisting of others as                    much as they ever
received, and even more.
   As a matter of fact, it is not known that any one who gave
a written obligation to refund ever did so.                 The practice of re-
quiring such an obligation was long since discontinued in this
College.
  The following resolutions were adopted at a meeting of the
Board held on the iQth of April, 1786                 :




  " This
         College having suffered greatly by the public during the late war ; and
there being some probability that in the distribution of lands in the new States to
the westward Congress might be induced to       make a liberal grant of lands to the
institution,
  "
      Resolved, That the President, Dr. Rodgers, and Dr. Beatty be a committee to
present to Congress a petition to this effect, when they may think it most prudent
and convenient."
   But no lands were given.
  "
     Resolved, That the practice of wearing College habits, agreeably to the order
of the Board in the year 1768, be revived as soon as the Faculty of the College
shall judge it convenient, and at farthest after the next fall vacation.
  "
      Ordered, That a complete catalogue of the graduates of this College be pre-
pared and published at the expense of the present Senior class; and in collectiug
and preparing the catalogue for the Press, Mr. Green was desired to render his
assistance to the class,"


   The next Commencement took place on the 2/th of Septem-
ber, 1786, and there was a large attendance on the part of the
Trustees.
                       DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.
                                                                                                  345

   Twenty-five members of the Senior class were admitted to
the first degree in the Arts.
  "A letter was received from the Rev. Mr. Woodhull enclosing three hundred and
sixty-six dollars           and ten   cents,   .   .   .   which sum was the subscription of General
Forman, John Burrows, and Tunis Vanderveer, Esqrs."
  " Dr.
              Smith, the Treasurer of the College, requested leave to resign that office.
The Board accepted the resignation, and elected to the office Dr. Thomas Wiggins,
of Princeton."
  " Mr. Gilbert T. Snowden
                               [one of the Tutors] was appointed Librarian, and
overseer of College repairs, with a salary of five pounds per annum and               ;     [it   was]
ordered, That each student pay five shillings at the beginning of each session for the
use of the Library.
  " That a blank book should be
                                provided, in which all donations to the Library
should be entered.
  "
      And, That all moneys belonging to the institution shall be paid in the first in-
stance to the Treasurer, and that the Treasurer pay the salaries of the officers of the

College and that in all other cases he pay no moneys except to the express order
          ;


of the Board."

   The most important action of the Board at this meeting was
the last, and it is embodied in the following minute                                  :




  " The Board of Trustees
                             considering the situation of Dr. Smith with regard to
the institution, and the duties he is necessarily called to discharge, appointed him
to the office of        ^r^-President of the College."

   The next meeting of the Board was held April 18, 1787.
  " The Rev.
             John Woodhull, one of the Trustees, presented to the Board two
hundred and fourteen dollars and seventeen cents, in Pierce's final settlement
                  Kenneth Hankinson, Esq., and the balance of one formerly re-
notes, I'eceived of
ceived in part from Tunis Vanderveer, Esq.  Mr. Woodhull also reported that
he had obtained of Mr. Dirck Sutphin a bond of ,100, on account of Mr. Wm.
McConkey, for the education of poor youth in the College.
  " The thanks of the Board were
                                 presented to Mr. Woodhull for his diligence in
this matter."

   From a               report        of the committee on                  the late Treasurer's
account,          it    appeared that there was due to him the sum of
.301.14.7.              They reported also that the Treasurer elect, Dr.
Thomas Wiggins, declined the appointment on the terms pre-
scribed by the Board.  Upon which the Board resolved to
proceed to another election.   Richard Stockton, Esq., was
chosen neither did he accept the office.
              :




  Professor Ashbel Green, the Professor of Mathematics and
Natural Philosophy, and Mr. Gilbert T. Snowden, a Tutor of
the College, having resigned their offices, it was resolved to
      VOL. I.          23
346          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

appoint two Tutors in their room. Mr. James McCoy was
chosen in the place of Mr. Green, and Mr. Samuel Finley
Snowden in the room of Mr. Gilbert Tennent Snowden.                             But
                gentlemen accepted the appointment, and in
neither. of these
their room Messrs. John W. Vancleve and James Henderson

Imlay were chosen Tutors by the Faculty, agreeably to an
authority given to them by the Board.
  The Hon. William Patterson was chosen a Trustee, in the
place of Robert Ogden, Esq., deceased.
   A  committee of finance was appointed, and                     its   duties pre-
scribed.
  It was ordered, that the Faculty prepare and present to the

Board at their next meeting a system of laws for the internal
government of the institution.
  The next Commencement of the College took place on Wed-
nesday, the 26th of September, 1787. The Board met on the
day preceding, and continued in session on Wednesday and
Thursday.
   Dr. Rodgers, Dr. McWhorter, Mr. Smith, and Mr. Tennent
were appointed a committee to prepare some regulations by
which the Board may be directed in conferring the higher
degrees in Theology and Law. Although the proposal of Pro-
fessors Houston and Smith on this subject had met with favor
from the committee to whom it was referred, and in general
was acceptable to the Board, it appears from this and other
minutes that it did not fully meet the views of the Trustees.
  The Rev. Dr. Johnes, a Trustee of the College, presented to
the Board in public securities the sum of $107.10 collected by
him for the education of poor and pious youth at the College.
The thanks of the Board were presented to Dr. Johnes for his
zeal in promoting the interests of the College.

  "The Committee to prepare rules for the conferring the highest degrees reported
the following, which were adopted by the Board      :




  "I.      No person shall be admitted to the degree of Doctor in Divinity or Doctor
of Laws unless with the consent of two-thirds of the members present of the Board.
   " 2. That no
                person shall be admitted to either of these degrees unless his name
have been proposed to the Board at least one day before conferring the degree.
  "        It is   recommended, in all cases where gentlemen are to be -proposed for
      3.
either of these degrees, their    names be reported to the Faculty of the College at
              DA.    WITHERSPOOWS ADMINISTRATION.                                  347

least ten days before the deliberations [of the    Board], whose duty it shall be to
make all necessary enquiries concerning the merits of the candidates, and report
thereon to the Board."

   The     first   of these rules was afterwards repealed, as incon-
sistent with the charter of the College.
  The committee appointed at a previous meeting to petition
the Legislature to exempt the property of the College from
taxation, reported that the Legislature had not complied with
the request.
  Walter Minto, LL.D., a distinguished mathematical scholar
and astronomer, was appointed Professor of Mathematics and
Natural Philosophy, and held this office until his decease, in
1796.*' He was a native of Scotland, educated at Edinburgh,
and before his coming to America had made himself known to
the scientific world by his mathematical and astronomical pub-
lications.
  The Rev. Manasseh Cutler, LL.D., of Connecticut, a man of
much note in his day, gives the following account of the Col-
                                     "
lege at this time (1787):  I then called upon Dr. Smith, Vice-

President of the College, to whom I also had letters.  He is a
young gentleman, lives in an                 elegant style, and is the first
literary character in this State.              He waited on me to the Col-
lege, introduced me to all the Tutors, and showed me the apart-                           ,




ments of the College. The building is of three stones, has
three cross entries, and a long one in the first story. The
chambers open into these entries and render the communica-
tion   more convenient.          The library is small.         .    .   .   The cabinet
and the philosophical apparatus are very indifferent. The only
article worthy of notice was the orrery made by Mr. Ritten-
house. This is an elegant machine, and much exceeds any that
has been made in Europe. ... I was much pleased with the
Hall and the stage erected for the exhibition.                     It is well   formed
for plays, which are permitted here, and the dialogue speaking

principally cultivated.          The Hall is ornamented with several
paintings, particularly the famous battle in the town," etc.    The
remark concerning the permitting of plays on the College stage

  * An
         interesting sketch of Dr.   Minto is given in the " Princeton Magazine" for
1850, from the pen of the editor.
348
       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

is only in so far correct as dialogues may be classed under this

head. To a communication to the New Jersey Historical So-
ciety, by President Tuttle, of Wabash College, we are indebted
for the above extract    from Dr. Cutler's "Journal." The same
                                    "
gentleman    communicated    to the   Newark Daily Advertiser,"
in a letter of the date of August 23, 1873, a description of some

pamphlets recently found by him in the course of his anti-
quarian researches, and among these pamphlets is one with
                               "
the following title-page  The Military Glory of Great Britain,
                           :




an Entertainment given by the late candidates for Bachelor's
degrees, at the close of the Anniversary Commencement,
                                                            in

Nassau Hall, New Jersey, September 29, 1762.    Philadelphia:
printed   by Wm. Bradford, MDCCLXII."            Dr. Tuttle quaintly
               "
remarks that       the careful reader of this poetical drama will be
convinced that Shakspeare and Ben Jonson are in no danger
from this competitor."  But our object in referring to it in
connection with Dr. Cutler's       remark respecting the College
stage is to show the wide range given to College exhibitions in
the earlier periods of the College history.
   The Commencement for the year 1788 was held on Wednes-
day, the 24th of September.     Dr. Timothy Johnes, a Trustee
named in Governor     Belcher's charter  of the College, resigned
his seat at the Board, and  the Rev.  Andrew   Hunter, of Wood-
bury,  New  Jersey, was chosen  in his place.  The thanks of the
                                         "
Board were tendered to Dr. Johnes            for his   long and faithful
services."
  There having been some relaxation permitted during and
                                             two years in
since the war in the law requiring a residence of
the College previous to receiving the first degree in the Arts, it
was " Ordered, That after the next session of the College the
law be strictly enforced."
  Mr. Isaac Snowden, Jr., was chosen Treasurer of the College,
and took the oaths of office.
  Mr. Imlay having resigned his position of Tutor, Mr. Van-
cleve and Mr. Samuel Harris were chosen Tutors by the Board,
and were qualified as required by the charter.
  The following resolution was adopted in regard to the
Faculty   :
               DR. WITIIERSPOON'S ADM.N1STRATION.

  " Whereas regular Professorships are now established in this institution, it is
therefore resolved and ordered, That the president and professors form the faculty,
and that the government of the College be vested in the said faculty, whose authority
shall extend to every part of the discipline, except the final expulsion of a student,
which shall not take place unless by the order of this board, or unless six trustees
shall have been convened for the purpose, and their consent obtained."



   The Commencement for 1790 took place on Wednesday, the
28th of September.         Fourteen candidates were admitted to their
first   degree in the Arts.
  " It was ordered, That the names of Mr.
                                           James Bayard, Thomas H. McCalla,
James Crawford, and James Brownfield, omitted to be inserted in the catalogue for
the year 1777, be now inserted in their proper place.'*


  The Rev. Ashbel Green was chosen a Trustee, in the room of
the Rev. Dr. Duffield, deceased, and the Rev. JTames Armstrong.
                                                              o                      *



in the room of the        Rev. Alexander Miller, resigned.
                                                     o
  Dr. McWhorter, from the committee appointed to settle with
Elisha Boudinot, Esq., executor of Mrs. Esther Richards, re-
ported that they had made a partial settlement of the legacy
           lady to the College, and that they had received from
left by that

Mr. Boudinot, in loan-office certificates, of the date of 1778, three
thousand dollars, and of the date of 1779, three hundred dollars,
which he is directed to pay to the Treasurer.
   The thanks of the Board were presented to Mr. Boudinot for
his care and attention to the interests of the College in ascer-

taining and securing the legacy              left   by Mrs. Richards to this
institution.     Mr. Silas     Wood was chosen a Tutor in the place
of Mr. Samuel Harris, deceased.

  " It was
           ordered, That the Treasurer provide a folio book, in which shall be re-
corded the benefactions which have been, and may be, at different times, made to
this College, with the names of the benefactors."



  Most of the philosophical apparatus belonging to the Col-
lege having been destroyed or carried off during the late war,
           "
the Board resolved to use their utmost endeavors to procure
such a sum of money as shall be adequate to supply the de-
ficiency."
   The Commencement for 1/91 took place on the 27th of Sep-
tember, and the Board met, according to adjournment, on the
350
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

preceding day, Governor Patterson, President Witherspoon, and
eighteen other Trustees being present. Twenty-five candidates
were admitted to their first degree in the Arts. The degree of
LL.D. was conferred upon the Hon. Thomas Jefferson, Secre-
tary of State, and also upon the Hon. Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury.
  A  committee from the General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church waited upon the Board to inquire into the state of the
fund for the education of pious youth, which was deposited in
the treasury of the College, the interest of this fund having been

placed at the disposal of the Synod of New York and Phila-
delphia, now the General Assembly. The Board, not being pre-
pared at once to give a definite answer to the committee from the
General Assembly, appointed a committee of five members to
inquire into the condition of the fund, and to report to the Rev.
Nathaniel Irwin, the Chairman of the Assembly's committee.
The College committee consisted of Dr. Harris, Dr. Boudinot,
Jonathan B. Smith, Esq., Isaac Snowden, Esq., and Dr. Green,
all of the city of Philadelphia. Richard Stockton, Esq., was
chosen a Trustee, in the room of Governor Patterson, who, in
virtue of his office as Governor of the State, was the President
of the Board.
  Mr. Isaac Snowden, Jr., having resigned the office of Treas-
urer,   Mr. John Harrison, of Princeton, was chosen Treasurer of
the College.    The Board resolved to renew their application to
Congress for a reimbursement of damages sustained by the
College during the war, and for rent while it was used for the
service of the United States; and Dr. Boudinot, Dr. Green, and
Mr. Jonathan Bayard Smith were the committee to make the
application.
  A committee was also appointed to make another revision of
the laws of the College.
  The next meeting of the Board was held on Tuesday, the
25th of September, 1792, and on the following day the usual
Commencement exercises took place, and the first degree in the
Arts was conferred upon thirty-seven graduates.       This   is   the

largest number ever graduated at this College up to this date,
and for several years after.
                         DR.   WITHE RSr DON'S ADMINISTRATION.                                  351
  " The committee
                    appointed at the meeting of the Board, in September last, to
examine into the whole stock of the College, and bring forward the accounts to
April, 1792," made a report through their chairman, Dr. Boudinot.                         "The report
was approved, and the same committee continued, and directed to endeavor to make
a final report at the next meeting of the Board."
   "  A copy of the Will of Mr.               of New
                                          James Leslie,              York, leaving a certain legacy
to the Direction of the Trustees of            New Jersey College, for the education of poor
and pious youth with a view to the ministry of the gospel in the Presbyterian Church,
was produced to the Board. Ordered, That the same be recorded at large in the
book to be appropriated to record all Donations to this College."

  On the 2Oth of August, 1793, there was a special meeting of
the Board to consider a proposal, or suggestion, from the Trus-
tees of Queen's College, New Brunswick, in reference to a union
of the two colleges.                   The minutes relative to this matter are the
following:
  "A letter was laid before the Board from Archibald Mercer, Esq., in the follow-
ing terms  In the Board of Trustees of Queen's College in New Jersey, Resolved,
                 :
                     '




That a committee be appointed to confer with the trustees of the College of New
Jersey, or a committee of said trustees, on the subject of a federal union between
the Colleges.
  "
          Ordered, That the committee consist of General Frelinghuysen, Dr. Linn, A.
      '




Mercer, A. Kirkpatrick, and James Schureman, Esqrs.
                                               "                 '
                                                                     JAMES SCHUREMAN, Clerk.
  "   '
                     I   take the earliest opportunity to convey to you the above resolution of
          SIR,
Queen's College, being, with respect,
                                   " Your
                                                          obedient, humble servant,
                                                '




                                                    "'ARCHIBALD MERCER, President P. T.
  "   '
          To the Rev. Dr. WITHERSPOON, President of the Board of Trustees of the
College of New Jersey.'
  "
    Resolved, That a committee of this Board be appointed to meet with the com-
mittee above appointed on the part of the trustees of Queen's College, or with the
Board of said Trustees, and confer with them on the subject of an union of the two
colleges, who shall lay the result of their conference before this Board at their next
meeting and  ;

  "
    Resolved, That the committee consist of the following gentlemen Dr. Wither-       :




spoon, Dr. Rodgers, Dr. Boudinot, Dr. Beatty, Colonel Bayard, and Mr. Woodhull.
  "
      Ordered, That the President transmit a copy of the above resolution                      to the

President of the Board of Trustees of Queen's College."


   At    next meeting of the Board, which occurred on
             the
Wednesday, the 25th of September, the day of the annual
Commencement, the committee made their report, which was
as follows               :
352
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

                                        "NEW  BRUNSWICK, September 10, 1793.
  " The committees of the Trustees of the
                                             College of New Jersey and Queen's
College, appointed to confer upon the subject of a union between the two colleges,
met here this day, in pursuance of notice previously given for that purpose, viz.    :




  "From the College of New Jersey.         The Rev. John Witherspoon, D.D., the
Rev. John Woodhull, Elias Boudinot, John Bayard, Esqrs.
  " From
          Queen's College. Archibald Mercer, Frederick Frelinghuysen, James
Schureman, Andrew Kirkpatrick, Esqrs.
  "The committees appointed Elias Boudinot, Esq., Chairman, Andrew Kirk-
patrick, Esq., Clerk,   and then went into a free conference on the subject of the
proposed union whereupon,
                 :


  "
    Resolved, unanimously, That a perfect incorporating and consolidating union
between the two colleges will be the most proper and beneficial union, and will
tend to the promotion of learning.
   "
     Resolved, unanimously, That in order to effect this union application be made
by both colleges to the legislature for a new charter; that the trustees to be named
in the new charter consist of twenty-eight in number.   That is to say, the Governor
of the State for the time being, the President of the college for the time being, and
thirteen of the trustees of each of the said colleges, being inhabitants of New

Jersey, to be chosen and named by their respective boards.
   "
      Resolved, unanimously,That no         not an inhabitant of the
                                       person                            State of   New
Jersey shall at any time be a trustee of the college so to be constituted.
   "
     Resolved, unanimously, That an institution at New Brunswick be established
and supported by the bye-laws of the trustees of the said college, in which shall
be taught the learning preparatory to entering the first class in the college, and
that no other institution at Princeton shall be supported at the expense of the said
trustees in which the same things shall be taught.
  "
      Resolved, unanimously, That the present officers of New Jersey College be the
officers of the college to be established on the foregoing principles.
  "
      Resolved, That the foregoing resolutions be submitted to the boards of trustees
of the said two colleges, by their respective committees, for their consideration.
                                                  " ELIAS
                                                            BOUDINOT, Chairman."
   The consideration of this report was postponed until the next
meeting of the Board. As there was a bare quorum present,
it was deemed inexpedient to decide so
                                           important a measure
as that presented in the report of the two committees, and for
this reason the consideration of it was deferred, and the Presi-
dent was authorized to call a meeting of the Board when in his
judgment circumstances would justify it. The small number in
attendance at this meeting was due to the general panic in the
community occasioned by the prevalence of the yellow fever in
Philadelphia.
   Twenty-one members of the Senior class were admitted to
their first degree in the Arts.
                DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.
                                                                                353

  Mr. John Abeel, one of the Tutors, having- resigned his office,
the Faculty were authorized to appoint another in his room, if
they find it necessary.
  The next meeting of the Board was held at Princeton, on the
1
  3th of December, 1793.   The first business, after reading the
minutes of the previous meeting, was the reading of the follow-
ing letter from Archibald Mercer, Esq.:
                                               "
                                                 MILLSTONE, November 20, 1793.
  "          The trustees of Queen's College met yesterday, and, I am sorry to inform
      SIR,
you, wholly rejected the report of the committees respecting the proposed union of
the Colleges.
            " I have the honor to         with the utmost
                                     be, Sir,                 respect,
                                  " Your
                                           obliged humble servant,
                                              "ARCHIBALD MERCER, P. P. T.
  " To the Rev. Dr.
                        JOHN WITHERSPOON, President of the Board of Trustees of
the (College of New Jersey."


   Thus ended this negotiation, and no further action was taken
in regard to       it   by the Trustees of the College of New Jersey.
The writer         thinks    it   doubtful whether the Trustees of the
College of New Jersey would have given their consent to the
proposed union had they discussed the measure and taken a
vote on the proposed plan,                 one most extraordinary feature of
this plan being that which             compels every trustee of the united
colleges to be an inhabitant of the State of New Jersey, inas-
much as some of the most valuable trustees of these institutions
were residents of New York and Philadelphia, and had been so
from the beginning.
  It is known that Dr. Witherspoon, after accepting the office

of President of this College but before coming to this country,
made a visit to Holland in the interests of the College, but
what special objects he had in view are not clearly known.
But while in Holland he visited Utrecht, where the Rev. Dr.
John Livingston, then a student of theology, was pursuing
his professional studies, and they had an interview and a con-
versation in reference to the proper policy to be pursued in
America by the friends of true religion and sound learning, and
came to an understanding that they would favor the adoption
of a scheme according to which the Reformed Dutch Church
should establish a theological professorship of their own, but
354      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

that for the academical education of their youth they should
avail themselves of the facilities afforded by the College at
Princeton.   But this measure did not meet the views of the
larger party in the Reformed Dutch Church, which at the time
of Dr. Witherspoon's arrival in this country had taken meas-
ures for obtaining a charter for a college to be under the control
of members of their own Church, and in 1770 they succeeded
in obtaining from Governor Franklin and his Council such a
charter.    (See Judge Bradley's Centennial Discourse at Rutgers
College in 1870.)
  The friends of both institutions -at this day can probably see
that it was better for the interests of religion and learning that
the negotiations for a union of the two colleges were unsuc-
cessful. Each college has done a great and good work for the
best interests of both the Church and the State, and it is hoped

they will continue to be generous rivals in this good work, and
be able to increase in usefulness as they advance in age, wealth,
and members.
  Mr. William P. Smith having tendered his resignation as a
Trustee, it was accepted, and the thanks of the Board were
tendered to him for his long and faithful services. Mr. Smith
was a Trustee for forty-five years.
  The Hon. William Patterson was chosen a Trustee in the
room of Mr. Smith, resigned, and the Rev. Jacob Van Arsdalen
and Joseph Bloomfield, Esq., were chosen in the place of the
Rev. Dr. Robert Smith and the Rev. Israel Read, deceased.
  At the next meeting of the Board the Committee on Ac-
counts presented a brief account, and the Committee was
continued.
  "A question having arisen, whether this corporation have a
right to appropriate the charity of Mr. Leslie to defray the
expense of the maintenance and clothing as well as of the
instruction of poor and pious youth for the gospel ministry, it
was determined by the corporation that they have this right."*

  *A
       report was made to the Board, at this meeting, of the certificates deposited
                                                                                      in

the office of James Ewing, Esq., Commissioner for New Jersey.        The amounts of
these certificates were as follows:
                DR. WITIIERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.                   355

  Mr. Silas      Wood having resigned the office of Tutor, Mr.
David English was elected a Tutor in his room.
  The next meeting of the Board was held on the 23d and 24th
of September, 1794, and it was the last meeting ever attended
by Dr. Witherspoon, who died a few weeks after.
  The Commencement exercises took place on the 24th. The
number of candidates admitted to the first degree in the Arts
was twenty-seven.
  Dr. Rodgers made a report of the moneys in the hands of
Mr. Leslie's executors           in   New York, from which it appeared
that they had in their possession bank shares and bonds, and
cash to the value of ,711.15.1 New York currency.* There
were also two houses in the city of New York, value uncertain.
  The Committee on Accounts was continued.
  The Faculty of the College, finding their salaries insufficient
for the support of their families, in consequence of the great
increase in the prices of all the necessaries of life, which are
from twenty-five to ten per cent, higher than they were two or
three years ago, request the Board to devise some means of

augmenting their salaries in proportion to the augmentation
that has taken place in the price of grain.

                           MR. JAMES LESLIE'S LEGACY.
          One certificate, six per cents.
            "      "
                                             ....        $4,364.32

            "      "
                           three per cents
                           deferred stock    ....         2,273.41
                                                          4,039.76

                                                        $10,677.49
                             MRS. RICHARDS'S LEGACY.
          One certificate, six per cents                 $1,119.15
            "      "
            "      "
                           three per cents
                           deferred stock    ....         1,291.60
                                                            559-57

                                                         $2,970.32

                                   COLLEGE FUNDS.
          One certificate, six per cents                 $3,404.63
            "       "
                    "
                           three per cents
                           deferred stock    ....         1,643.47
                                                            402.31

                                                         $5.450-41
  * Resolved, That the Rev. Dr. Rodgers be empowered to receive whatever
   "

sums are in the hands of Mr. Leslie's executors in the city of New York."
356       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  This the Faculty conceived might be done "without encroach-
ing on the College funds destined for other purposes, by in-
creasing the tuition, etc., of the students. This it is hoped will
appear neither unreasonable nor improper to the Trustees, as
they have found it both reasonable and necessary to raise the
price of board with the Steward     fifty   per cent, within a few
years."
  The Trustees postponed the final decision of this subject to
the next meeting.
  Dr. Rodgers was desired to request the executors of Mr.
         New York, to invest the whole property coming to
Leslie, in
the College in stock of the Bank of New York, and to transfer
the same to the Trustees of the College.
  The Treasurer reported that he had received from seventy-
nine students, for tuition-fees and room-rent, one thousand one
hundred and seventy-five dollars; from which it appears that the
annual charge for tuition and rent of room to each student
was a little less than thirty dollars, being eleven pounds New
Jersey currency.
  The Committee on Accounts made a report, and was con-
tinued, in order to bring up the accounts to the present date.
  The foregoing detail shows the great difficulties with which
the College had to contend throughout the administration of
Dr. Witherspoon, and the strenuous efforts made to meet and
overcome them. These difficulties might all have been summed
up in a few words, a want of funds and a want of students; both
of these wants being occasioned chiefly by the impoverished
condition of the country consequent upon the war of the Revo-
lution.    At the time Dr. Witherspoon took charge of the Col-
lege it was   much embarrassed for want of funds, and the ener-
getic measures adopted to supply this want gave good ground
to hope that this hindrance to the success and usefulness of the
institution would soon be removed.     But shortly after began
the political troubles which ended in a change of government,
and which finally gave freedom and independence to the coun-
try, laying the foundation of its subsequent prosperity, but, as
their immediate result, producing for several years great finan-
cial embarrassment.
              DR.   WITHERSPOOWS ADMINISTRATION.                           357

   It is believed    that no general statement of the affairs of the
institution can make so deep an impression, respecting the
trials and struggles to which the President, Trustees, and other

officersand friends of the College were subjected during this
period of its history, as a recital of their constant and untiring

efforts in its behalf;    and this is our apology, if one be needed,
for dwelling so long upon these things.
   But there- is a brighter side to this picture of College affairs.
For notwithstanding all the impediments in the way, occasioned
by the dispersion of the students, the occupation and dilapida-
tion of the College building by both British and American

soldiery, the destruction of property and of funds, and the
injury done to the apparatus and the library, in as short a time
as possible the College was again opened for the reception of
students, and more ample provision than ever before was made
for the thorough instruction of the pupils in all those branches
which in that day claimed the attention of college youth.
   Although the College exercises were for a time suspended,
yet every year there were some candidates for the first degree
in the Arts, whose names are given in the Triennial Catalogue
of the College; the smallest number being five, in 1778, and
the largest thirty-seven, in 1792. And although the average
number of graduates did not exceed nineteen a year, there is
probably no period         in   the history of the institution during
which so large a proportion of the students, in after-life, rose
to distinction.      This may be accounted for in part by the cir-
cumstances of the country, which called forth all the energies
of which these men were possessed, but still not a little may
be claimed for the training which they here received under
their able and patriotic teachers.

  Of the four hundred and sixty-nine graduates of the College from 1769 to 1794,
one hundred and fourteen became ministers of the gospel, of whom seventy-five
were graduated from 1769 to 1776. After the war began, the candidates for the
ministry were much fewer in number in proportion to the whole than they were
before that event.  Many of these ministers, who were trained under Dr. Wither-
spoon and his associates in the Faculty, became prominent and influential men in
the Church and in the community at large.   Among them were the following-named
Presidents and Professors of Colleges in the Middle and Southern States.    The
names are given in the order of their graduation.   Of the class of
358
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

   1769. Samuel Stanhope Smith,      Dr. Witherspoon's successor in the Presidency
of the College of New Jersey.

  1772.    Andrew Hunter, Professor of Mathematics and Astronomy in the same
College.
  1772.    Samuel Eusebius Mc'Corkle, Professor of Moral and Political Philosophy
in the University of North Carolina.
  1772. John McMillan, Vice-President of Jefferson College, Pennsylvania, ar.d
Professor of Theology in the same College.

   1773. Thaddeus Dod, the Founder and President of Washington          Academy,
afterwards Washington College, Pennsylvania.

  1773. James Dunlap, President of Jefferson College, Pennsylvania.
  1773. William Graham, Founder and President of Liberty Hall, afterwards
Washington College, Virginia.
  1773- J onn McKnight, President of Dickinson College, Pennsylvania.
  1773. John Blair Smith, President of     Hampden Sidney College, Virginia, and
also of   Union College, Schenectady, New York.
  1774.    Thomas Harris Maccaulle,     President of   Mount Sion   College, South
Carolina.

  1775. Samuel Doak, President of Washington College, Tennessee.
  1783. Ashbel Green', President of the College of New Jersey.
  1784. Ira Condit, Vice-President of Queen's College, now Rutgers, New Jersey,
and Professor of Moral Philosophy in the same.
  1787. Robert Finley, President of the University of Georgia.
  1787. Elijah D. Rattoone, President of Charleston College, South Carolina,
and a Presbyter of the Protestant Episcopal Church.
  1789. Robert Helt Chapman, President of the University of North Carolina.
  1791. Joseph Caldwell, President of the same University before Dr. Chapman.
   1793. John Henry Hobart, Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church, New
York, and Professor of Pastoral Theology and Pulpit Eloquence in the Theo-
logical Seminary of the Episcopal Church.
  1794.     Henry Kollock, Professor of Theology in the College of New Jersey.

  Some of those here named were eminent as preachers of the gospel as well as
teachers in the higher seminaries of learning.
  To this list may be added the names of not a few others who were men of note
as able and successful pastors of churches, e.g. :

  1769. Samuel Niles, at Abington, Massachusetts.
  1769. Elihu Thayer, at Kingston, New Hampshire.
  1770. Nathaniel Irwin, at Neshaminy, Pennsylvania.
  1770. Nathan Perkins, at West Hartford, Connecticut.
  1771. John Black, at Upper Mars Creek, York County, Pennsylvania.
  1771.    Samuel Spring, at Newburyport, Massachusetts.
  1772. Joseph Eckley, at Boston, Massachusetts.
  1772. James Grier, at Deep Run, Pennsylvania.
  1772. William Linn, at New York City, Reformed Dutch Church.
  1773. John Francis Armstrong, at Trenton, New Jersey ; a Trustee of the College.
  1773. Ebenezer Bradford, at Rowley, Massachusetts.
              DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.                             359

  1773. Lewis Feuilleteau Wilson, at Concord, North Carolina.
  1774. Stephen Bloomer Balch, at Georgetown, District of Columbia.
  1774. James Hall, at Fourth Creek, Concord, and Bethany, North Carolina.
  1775. John Durburrow Blair, at Richmond, Virginia.
  1775. Isaac Stockton Keith, at Charleston, South Carolina.
  1775. James McCrie, at Steel Creek, North Carolina.
  1775. John Springer, at Washington, Georgia.
  1778. William Boyd, at Lamington, New Jersey; a Trustee of the College.
  1781. Joseph Clark, at New Brunswick, New Jersey; a Trustee of the College.
  1783. Gilbert Tennent Snowden, at Cranbury, New Jersey.
  1784. Joseph Clay, at Savannah, Georgia; Baptist Church.
  1787. John Nelson Abeel, at New York;    Reformed Dutch Church.
  1788.   Aaron Condict, at Hanover, New Jersey.
  1789.   Thomas Pitt Irving, at Hagerstown, Maryland; Principal of the Academy
there, and Rector of the Episcopal Church.

  1790. George Spafford Woodhull, at Princeton, and a Trustee of the College.
  1793. Isaac Van Dorem, at Hope-well, New York; Reformed Dutch Church,
and afterwards Principal of the Newark Academy.

  Of the graduates from 1769 to 1794 inclusive, six were members of the Conti-
nental Congress, twenty became Senators of the United States, and twenty-three
members of the House of Representatives. Of the class of
  1769. John Beatty, Delegate to the Continental Congress, from New Jersey.
  1769. John Henry, Delegate to the Continental Congress, from Maryland.
  1771.   Gunning Bedford, Delegate to the Continental Congress, from Delaware.
  1771. James Madison, Delegate to the Continental Congress, from Virginia.
  1773. Morgan Lewis, Delegate to the Continental Congress, from New York.
  1773.   Henry Lee, Delegate to the Continental Congress, from Virginia.

                         UNITED STATES SENATORS.
  1770. Frederick Frelinghuysen, from New Jersey.
  1772.   Aaron Burr, from New York.
  1773.   Aaron Ogden, from New Jersey.
  1774. John Ewing Calhoun, from South Carolina.
  1774. Jonathan Mason, from Massachusetts.
  1775. Isaac Tichenor, from Vermont.
  1776. Jonathan Dayton, from New Jersey.
  1776. John Rutherford, from New York.
  1779. Richard Stockton, from New Jersey.
  1780.   Abraham R. Venable, from Virginia.
  1781. William Branch Giles, from Virginia.
  1781. Edward Livingston, from Louisiana.
  1784. James Ashton Bayard, from Delaware.
  1785. Robert Goodloe Harper, from Maryland.
  1788. David Stone, from North Carolina.
  1789.   Mahlon Dickerson, from New Jersey.
  1790. John Taylor, from South Carolina.
360       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  1791. Jacob Burnet, from Ohio.%
  1792. George M. Bibb, from Kentucky.
  1794. George Washington Campbell, from Tennessee.


MEMBERS OF THE UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
  1769.   James Linn, from New Jersey.
  1772. David Bard, from Pennsylvania.
  1774.   Wm. Stevens Smith, from New York.
  1775. John Andrew Scudder, from New Jersey.
  1776. Nathaniel Alexander, from North Carolina.
  1776. John W. Kittera, from Pennsylvania.
  1781. William Crawford, from Pennsylvania.
  1782. Conrad Elmendorf, from New York.
  1782. John A. Hanna, from Pennsylvania.
  1784. Peter R. Livingston, from New York.
  1785. James Wilken, from New York.
  1786. John Henderson Imlay, from New Jersey.
  1787. Evan Alexander, from North Carolina.
  1788. Nathaniel W. Howell, from New York.
  1788. Wm. Kirkpatrick, from New York.
  1788. Nicholas Van Dyke, from Delaware.
  1789. Isaac Pierson, from New Jersey.
  1789.   Ephraim King Wilson, from Maryland.
  1789. Silas Wood, from New York.
  1792. Wm. Chatwood, from New Jersey.
  1792. Peter Early, from Georgia.
  1792. George C. Maxwell, from New Jersey.
  1794.   Thomas M. Bayly, from Virginia.
  1794. James M. Broome, from Delaware.

  Of the above-named members of Congress,
  James Madison was the fourth President of the United States.
  Aaron Burr was the third Vice-President.
  John Henry was Governor of Maryland.
  Gunning Bedford was Governor of Delaware.
  Henry Lee was Governor of Virginia.
  Morgan Lewis was Governor of New York.
  Aaron Ogden was Governor of New Jersey.
  Isaac Tichenor was Governor of Vermont.
  Nathaniel Alexander was Governor of North Carolina.
  Wm. Branch Giles was Governor of Virginia.
  David Stone was Governor of North Carolina.
  Mahlon Dickerson was Governor of New Jersey.
  John Taylor was Governor of South Carolina.
  Peter Early was Governor of Georgia.
  And to this list of Governors of several of the States may be added William
Richardson Davie, Governor of North Carolina, also Envoy, with Ellsworth, an
older graduate, to France.
                DR.       WITHERSPOON' S ADMINISTRATION.                         361
  Of the graduates of this period, three became Judges of the Supreme Court of the
United States, viz.   :   of the class of

  1774. Brockholst Livingston, of       New York.
  1788. Smith Thompson, of          New York.
  1790. William Johnson, of South Carolina.
   Not a few others became distinguished, some for their culture of letters, some
for their medical skill and knowledge, others for their
                                                          legal attainments and
as judges, some as army officers, and others still as active and useful citizens.
Of these, without undertaking to mention all, the following include the best-
known   :




   1770. James Witherspoon, of New Jersey, son of President Witherspoon, killed
at the battle of Germantown.

  1771.     Hugh Henry Brackenridge, of Pennsylvania, Judge of the Supreme Court.
  1771. Charles Me Knight, of         New York, Surgeon-General of the United States
Army.
  1771.     Donald Campbell, of New York, Colonel in the United States Army.
  1771. Philip Freneau, of New Jersey, Poet, and Writer on Politics.
  1772. Win. Bradford, of Pennsylvania,. Attorney-General of the United States.
  1773.     Hugh Hodge, of Pennsylvania, Physician, Surgeon in the United States
Army.
  1774. John Noble Gumming, of New Jersey, General in the Army.
  1775. Andrew Kirkpatrick, of New Jersey, Chief Justice.
  1775. Charles Lee, of Virginia, Attorney-General of the .United States.
  1775. Spruce Macay, of North Carolina, Judge of the Superior Court.
  1775. John R. B. Rodgers, M.D., of New York, Physician, and Professor             in
Columbia College.
  1776. John Pintard, of        New York, chief founder of the New York Historical
Society.
  1777. John Young Noel, of Georgia, Lawyer of much eminence.
  1778. Jacob Morton, of New York, Justice of the City Court, etc.
  1779.     Andrew Bayard, of Pennsylvania, Trustee of the College.
  1779. Matthew McCallister, of Georgia, Judge of the Superior Court.
  1779. James Riddle, of Pennsylvania, Judge of the Supreme Court.
  1779. Aaron Dickinson Woodruff, of New Jersey, Attorney-General.
  1780. Ebenezer Stockton, of          New Jersey, Physician, Assistant-Surgeon in the
United States Army.
  1783. Nathaniel Lawrence, of New York, Attorney-General.
  1783. Jacob Radcliff, of New York, Judge of the Supreme Court.
  1783. George Whitefield Woodruff, of Georgia, Attorney-General.
  1784. Gabriel Ford, of New Jersey, Judge of the Supreme Court.
  1784.     Samuel Bayard, of New Jersey, Trustee and Treasurer of the College.
  1785. John Vernon Henry, of New York, Lawyer, Doctor of Laws.
  1786. Charles Smith, of New Jersey, Physician, Trustee of Queen's College.
  1788. John Wells, of New York, Lawyer, Doctor of Laws.
  1789. David Hosack, of New York, Professor in the College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Doctor of Laws.
  1791. Elias Van Artsdale, of        New Jersey, Lawyer, Doctor of Laws.
    VOL. I.      24
362
             HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

     1792. Charles Wilson Harris, of North Carolina, Professor in the University of
North Carolina, and afterwards an eminent lawyer.
     1792.   John C. Otto, of Pennsylvania, Vice-President of the College of Physi-
cians.

     1793. John Neilson, of New York, Physician.
     1794. John N. Simpson, of New Jersey, an efficient friend of popular educa-
tion and internal improvements.
     Of the graduates named above as admitted to their first degree, from 1769 to 1780
inclusive, more than twenty were officers in the United States Army during the War
for      Independence, and all of them young men.
   Of the course of instruction in the year 1772, and of the government of the Col-
lege, Dr. Witherspoon, in an address to the inhabitants of Jamaica and other West
India islands, gives the following account:      "The regular course of instruction is
in four classes, exactly after the    manner and bearing the names of the classes in
the English Universities,  Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, and Senior. In the first
year they read Latin and Greek, with Roman and Grecian antiquities, and Rhetoric.
In the second, continuing the study of the languages, they learn a complete system
of geography, with the use of the globes, the first principles of philosophy, and the
elements of mathematical knowledge.          The third, though the languages are not
wholly omitted, is chiefly employed in mathematics and natural philosophy.        And
the senior year is employed in reading the higher classics, proceeding in the mathe-
matics and natural philosophy, and going through a course of moral philosophy.
In addition to these, the President gives lectures to the juniors and seniors, which,

consequently, every student hears twice over in his course, first upon chronology
and history, and afterwards upon composition and criticism. He also taught the
French language last winter, and it will continue to be taught to those who desire
to learn it.
     "
         During the whole course of their studies, the three younger classes, two every
evening formerly, and now three, because of their increased number, pronounce an
oration, on the stage erected for that purpose in the hall, immediately after prayers ;
that they may learn, by early habit, presence of mind, and proper pronunciation and

gesture in public speaking.      This excellent practice, which has been kept up
almost from the first foundation of the College, has had the most admirable effects.
The senior scholars, every five or six weeks, pronounce orations of their own com-
position, to       which all persons of any note in the neighborhood are invited or
admitted.
  " The
        College is now furnished with all the most important helps to instruction.
The library contains a very large collection of valuable books. The lessons of
astronomy are given upon the orrery lately invented by David Rittenhouse, Esq.,
which is reckoned by the best judges the most excellent in its kind of any ever yet
produced      ;
                  and when what is commissioned and now upon its way is added to what
the College already possesses, the apparatus for mathematics and natural philosophy
will be equal if not superior to any on the continent.                             s

     ..." There is a fixed annual commencement on the last Wednesday of Sep-
tember, when, after a variety of public exercises, always attended by a vast con-
course of the politest company from different parts of this province and the cities
of    New York and Philadelphia, the students whose senior year is expiring are
                DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.
                                                                                            363
admitted to the degree of Bachelor of Arts; the Bachelors of three
                                                                   years' standing
to the degrees of Masters;   and such other higher degrees granted as are either reg-
ularly claimecK>r the Trustees think proper to bestow upon those who have distin-
guished themselves by their literary productions or their appearances in public life.
  "On the day preceding the commencement last year [1771] there was (and                       it

will be continued hereafter) a public exhibition and
                                                      voluntary competition for
prizes, open for every member of the College. These were first, second, and third
prizes   on each of the following subjects:        i.
                                                        Reading the English language with
propriety and grace, and being able to answer all questions on its orthography and
grammar. 2. Reading the Latin and Greek languages in the same manner, with
particular attention to true quantity.       3.   Speaking Latin.       4.   Latin versions.   5.

Pronouncing English orations.      The preference was determined by ballot, and all
present permitted to vote who were graduates of this or any other College.
  " As to the government of the College, no correction by stripes is permitted.
Such as cannot be governed by reason and the principles of honor and shame are
reckoned unfit for a residence in a college. The collegiate censures are, i. Private
admonition by the president, professor, or tutor.         2.   Before the Faculty.    3.   Before
the whole class to which the offender belongs.            4.   The last and highest, before all
the members of the College assembled in the hall.     And, to preserve the weight
and dignity of these censures, it has been an established practice that the last or
highest censure, viz., public admonition, shall never be repeated upon the same
person.  If it has been thought necessary to inflict it upon any one, and if this does
not preserve him from falling into such gross irregularities a second time, it is under-
stood that expulsion is immediately to follow.
  "
      Through the narrowness of the funds the government and                     instruction has
hitherto been carried on by a president and three tutors.   At the last commence-
ment the trustees chose a professor of mathematics ; and intend, as their funds are
raised, to have a greater number of professorships, and carry their plan to as great

perfection as possible."


   These extracts give a clear view of the course of instruction
in 1772, and of the provision                  made for conducting it.                 It also-

exhibits the opinions then held as to the principles upon which                                     1




the government of youth in a college should proceed.                                   Before
the close of Dr. Witherspoon's administration the Faculty was
enlarged, and consisted of the President, the Vice-President,
who was also Professor of Divinity and Moral     Philosophy,
the Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, and two
Tutors.
   In the address from which the above extracts are taken, Dr.

Witherspoon does not mention to what extent religious instruc-
tion was given in the College but apparently assuming that this
                                         ;



matter was fully and properly attended to, he disavows for him-
self and his associates          any intention or desire to proselyte the
 364       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

 youth of denominations other than their own to the peculiar
 and distinctive views of the Presbyterian Church; and in con-
                                         "
 clusion on this head he adds, It has been and shall be our

 care to use every means in our power to make them good
men and good scholars; and if this be the case, I shall hear
of their future character and usefulness with unfeigned satis-
faction,   under every name by which a real Protestant can be
 distinguished."

           THE AMERICAN WHIG AND CLIOSOPHIC SOCIETIES.
   A few years before Dr. Witherspoon's accession to the Presi-
dency, and certainly as early as the years 1765 and 1766, two
literary societies were organized in the College, under the
names of the " Well-Meaning" and " Plain-Dealing" Clubs. In
consequence of some difficulties arising between these two asso-
ciations, they were both required to suspend their meetings and
to disband their organizations.              In the summer, however, of
1769, and doubtless with the consent of the College authorities,
the adherents of the Plain-Dealing Club revived their associa-
tion, under the name of the "American             Whig Society;" and in
June, 1770, the members of the Well-Meaning Club reorganized
                                            "
their association, and took the name of the   Cliosophic So-
ciety." Tracing its origin back to the Well-Meaning, the Clio-
sophic Society held its hundredth anniversary in June, 1865.
Whereas the American Whig Society, not regarding itself as
strictly a continuation of the Plain-Dealing, celebrated its cen-
tennial anniversary in June, 1869.
   As the histories of these Societies have been given to the
public by Professors Giger and Cameron, with that fulness and
general accuracy which preclude all occasion for saying any-
thing further in regard to them, the writer of this work deems it
unnecessary to add anything to what they have so well said re-
specting the Societies of which they were the chosen historians.
  The following-named gentlemen were members of the Faculty during Dr. Wither-
spoon's administration, from 1768 to 1794.
  John Witherspoon, D.D., LL.D., President, and, from 1769 to 1783, Professor
of Divinity.

  John Blair, A.M., Professor of Divinity and Moral Philosophy from 1767    to

1769.
                  DR.   WITHERSPOOWS ADMINISTRATION.                            365

    William Churchill Houston, A.M., Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philos-
ophy from 1771 to 1783.
  Samuel Stanhope Smith, D.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy from 1779 to 1795       ;


Professor of Divinity and Moral Philosophy from 1783 to 1795; Vice-President
from 1786 to 1795.
  Ashbel Green, A.M., Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy from
 1785 to 1787.
   Walter Minto, LL.D., Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy from
1787 to 1796.
   James Thompson, A.M., Tutor from 1762 to 1770.
   Joseph Periam, A.M., Tutor from 1765 to 1766, and from 1767 to 1769.
   Jonathan Edwards, A.M., Tutor from 1766 to 1769.
   Ebenezer Pemberton, A.M., Tutor from 1769 to 1769.
   William Churchill Houston, A.M., Tutor from 1769 to 1771.
   Tapping Reeve, A.M., Tutor from 1769 to 1770.
   Richard Devens, A.M., Tutor from 1770 to April, 1773   ;
                                                              and again from Septem-
ber, 1773, to 1774.
   Samuel Stanhope Smith, A.M., Tutor from 1770 to 1773.
   James Grier, A.M., Tutor from 1773 to 1774.
   John Duffield, A.M., Tutor from 1773 to 1775.
   Lewis Feuilleteau Wilson, A.M., Tutor from 1774 to 1775.
   James Dunlap, A.M., Tutor from 1775 to 1777.
   John Springer, A.M., Tutor from 1775 to 1777.
   George Faitoute, A.M., Tutor from 1777 to 1777.
   From 1777 to 1781 there were no Tutors. The few students in College during
this period were instructed solely by the President and Professors.

   James Riddle, A.M., Tutor from 1781 to 1783.
   Ashbel Green, A.B., Tutor from 1783 to 1785.
   Samuel Beach, A.B., Tutor from 1783 to 1785.
   Gilbert Tennent Snowden, A.M., Tutor from 1785 to 1787.

   John W. Vancleve, A.M., Tutor from 1787 to 1791.
   John Henderson Imlay, A.B., Tutor from 1787 to 1788.
   Samuel Harris, A.B., Tutor from 1788 to 1789.
   Silas Wood, A.M., Tutor from      1789 to 1794.
   John Nelson Abeel, A.M., Tutor from 1791 to 1793.
   Robert Finley, A.M., Tutor from 1793 to 1795.
   Charles Snowden, A.M., Tutor from 1793 to 1793.
   David English, A.M., Tutor from 1794 to 1796.
  Most of the gentlemen named here as Tutors of the College became men of
much note in the Church or State and not a few of them attained to great dis-
                                      ;


tinction in their several professions. For further information respecting them the
reader is referred to the Triennial Catalogue of the College, and to the Rev. Dr.
Samuel Alexander's " Princeton College."
  Of those gentlemen who were Trustees of the College at the time Dr. Wither-
spoon was inaugurated as President, only two were members of the Board at the
time of his death. These were Rev. Dr. John Rodgers, of New York City, pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church there, and Dr. William Shippen, founder of the
first   medical school in Philadelphia.
366
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  The following were chosen Trustees after Dr. Witherspoon's accession to the
Presidency   :
                 viz., in

  1768. William Livingston, Esq.; from 1776, ex ojficio President of the Board,
being Governor of the State.
  1769. Rev. John Blair, late Vice-President of the College.
  1769. Rev. James Caldwell.
  1770. Rev. Jeremiah Halsey.
  1772. Rev. Dr. Robert Smith.
  1772. Rev. Dr. Alexander McWhorter.
 .1772. Elias Boudinot, Esq.
  1777. Rev. Dr. George Duffield.
  1778. Rev. Azel Roe.
  1778. Colonel John Bayard.
  1778. Dr. Nathaniel Scudder.
  1779. Rev. Dr. John Mason.
  1779. Jonathan Bayard Smith, Esq.
  1780. Rev. Dr. John Woodhull.
  1781.   Hon. Joseph Reed.
  1781. Rev. James Boyd.
  1782. Isaac Snowden.
  1782. Rev. Jonathan Elmer.
  1785. Dr. John Beatty.
  1785. Rev. Wm. Mackay Tennent.
  1785. Rev. Alexander Miller.
   1787. William Paterson, Esq., to 1790, when he        became ex officio President of
the Board, being the Governor of the State.

  1788. Rev. Andrew Hunter.
  1790. Rev. Ashbel Green.
  1790. Rev. James Francis Armstrong.
  1791. Richard Stockton, Esq.
  1793. Hon. William Paterson, re-elected.
  1793. Rev. Jacob Van Artsdale.
  1793. Joseph Bloomfield, Esq.


  Treasurers of the College during Dr. Witherspoon's administration       :




  Jonathan Sergeant, Esq., Treasurer until 1777.
  Upon his decease a committee was appointed to settle with Mr. Sergeant's execu-
tors and to take charge of the funds.

  Wm. Churchill Houston, Esq., Treasurer from 1779 to 1783.
  Rev. Samuel Stanhope Smith, Treasurer from 1783 to 1786.
  Upon Dr. Smith's resignation, two gentlemen were chosen, one after the other,
but both declined to act.   It is therefore   probable that Dr. Smith continued to dis-
charge the duties of the Treasurer until the appointment of
  Mr. Isaac Snowden, Jr., Treasurer from 1788 to I79 1      -




  Mr. John Harrison, Treasurer from 1791 to 1794.


  The following statements respecting the course of study and the College charges
                  DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.
                                                                                         367
are copied from the advertisements annexed to the charter and the laws, in a pam-

phlet published in 1794, the last year of Dr. Witherspoon's presidency.
  " The studies of the different classes are the
                                                 following :
  "
      Freshman, Greek Testament, Sallust, Lucian, Cicero, and Mair's Introduction
[to Latin Syntax],
  "
      Sophomore, Xenophon, Cicero, Homer, Horace, Roman Antiquities, Geography,
Arithmetick, English Grammar and Composition.
  "
    Junior, Algebra, Geometry, Trigonometry, Practical Geometry, Conic Sections,
Natural Philosophy, English Grammar and Composition.
  "
    Senior, Natural and Moral Philosophy, Criticism, Chronology, Logick, and the
Classicks.*
  " The
            ordinary expenses for each student are   :




        Entrance money     .     .     .
                                            -4 dollars and 67 cents.
                                                         "            "
        Tuition
        Library
                    do
                    do.
                    do.
                           ....
                           ....
                                                8
                                                                 67
                                                                      ""
                                                                      "
                                                                          per session.


        Damage                                                   67
        Room Rent          !
                                                         "   "        "      "
                                 .     .    .
                                                5                33
        Board with the Steward                           "   "        "
                                 .     .        I                67       per week."

  At this time 1794 the Faculty was composed of the following-named persons                :




  John Witherspoon, D.D., President.
  Samuel Stanhope Smith, D.D., Vice-President and Professor of Moral Philos-
ophy.
  Walter Minto, LL.D., Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy.
  Robert Finley, A.M., Tutor.
  Silas Wood, A.M., Tutor.
  All were, or became, eminent men.


  * " Besides the authors above
                                     mentioned, the following are at present taught in
the College:      Wettenhall's Greek    Grammar; Ovid's Metamorphoses; Kennel's
Roman Antiquities; Guthrie's Geography; Lowth's English Grammar; Simpson's
Algebra; Bossut's Elements of Geometry, manuscript; Minto's Trigonometry, Prac-
ticalGeometry, and Conic Sections, manuscript; Sherwin's Logarithms; Moore's
Navigation;  Helsham's Natural Philosophy; Nicholson's Natural Philosophy;
Witherspoon's Moral Philosophy, Criticism, and Chronology, manuscript; and
Duncan's Logic."
                                APPENDIX
  TO THE CHAPTER ON DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION.

   THE most perplexing matter in the report made in April,
1775, respecting the condition of the College funds, was the
discrepancy between the statements of the committee and cer-
tain claims of the President.
   Dr. Witherspoon had received sundry moneys for the Col-
lege, and had also incurred sundry expenses, for which he
claimed a credit.   Some of these the committee thought
ought not to be allowed, as they had been incurred without
authority from the Board, and, in the judgment of the com-
mittee, unnecessarily.    The President and committee also dif-
fered as to the right of the President to expend, at his discretion,
for the benefit of the College, the            income from the fund given
by Wm. Phillips, Esq., and his brothers, of Boston; and in set-
tling the account the          committee refused to allow the President
the credits claimed by him for payments made from the interest
of this fund.       But upon the President's producing the follow-
ing   letter    from Mr. Phillips, the Board yielded this point, and
the President continued to dispose of the avails of this trust for
College purposes. (The letter is taken from page 313 of the
first volume of the Minutes of the Board)                     :




                                                       "
                                                           NORWICH, March 9, 1776.
  " DEAR             Your esteemed favor of the I9th       ult. I   have before me, and I
              SIR,
thank you for your affectionate expressions of regard for me in my ejected state.       I
have great cause for thankfulness that I am not imprisoned in Boston.
  " I do not recollect the
                           particular directions I gave as to the disposal of the in-
terest arising on the donation ofmy mother's [brothers'] and mine. You were the
cause of obtaining it, from the confidence we had in you, as well as the affection
for that Seminary.
  " It is my desire, and doubt not of my mother's
                                                  [brothers'] that you personally be-
stow the interest of the above donation till you hear further from us, as you have
the best opportunity of knowing the most proper objects; at the same time desire,
when anything offers, either to lay out the capital in any article, or dispose of the
        368
APPENDIX TO DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION. 369
interest in any other way that may appear to you more for the general good of the

College, you would advise me thereof."


   The use of the word mother s for brothers' is, no doubt, a cler-
ical   error in copying the letter into the College records.
  The minutes of the April meeting of 1775, at which this
report of the committee was made in detail, are not on record,
but it appears from a statement of the report of 1793, men-
tioned above, that the report of 1775 was approved by the
Board, but that at a subsequent meeting of the Trustees, in
1778, they passed the account of Dr. Witherspoon upon the
examination and report of another committee, who, it is alleged
by Dr. Boudinot, had none of the former proceedings before
them.    But this special committee had before them what the
first committee had not, viz., Mr. Phillips's letter, given above,

and also some of the papers referred to in Dr. Boudinot's re-
port of 1794, upon the strength of which the Doctor and the
committee could and did say, and that, too, after including all
accounts between the College and Dr. Witherspoon, as far back
as 1775, disregarding the settlement of 1778:

  " Your
           committee, moreover, feel it to be a duty not to close this report without
declaring that, whereas it appears to have been apprehended that some inquiries
heretofore made by this committee were intended to implicate the character of
Dr. Witherspoon, no such design was ever in the contemplation of the committee.
And they do now most cheerfully report, that these inquiries are answered to their
entire satisfaction, from papers furnished by the President himself,
                                                               and in such a
manner   as must convince every person who understands the subject that there
is no foundation whatever for
                              any impeachment or suspicion of the President's
integrity."


   A happy conclusion, and happily arrived at before the decease
of Dr. Witherspoon, who died within less than two months after
this report was      made.
  The first report disallowing Dr. Witherspoon's sundry claims,
and making him largely a debtor to the College, was made nine-
teen years before his decease, and was appended to a report made
seventeen years after the first one.  More than a year after Dr.
Witherspoon's death, Dr. Boudinot presents yet another report
on the funds of the College, in which he takes occasion to say:

  "Another sum is a donation from three brothers, the Messrs. Phillips, of Bos-
370      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

ton, amounting to about ^"535.       Seven per cent, interest has constantly been
credited to himself by the late Dr. Witherspoon for twenty years past, amounting
to ^"738.16, without regard to the interest received by this Board on this sum, or

any losses of the general fund during the war, by depreciation or otherwise, and
without any responsibility, as to the appropriation, to this Board. This sum was
refused to be allowed by the committee of 1774, which refusal was confirmed by
the Board, but afterwards rescinded and allowed to the Doctor, on his producing
a letter from the Donors, dated two years after the disallowance by said committee.
This fund has suffered so materially by this transaction, that some attention is due
to it from the Board."



   At the time the Board received the money they recognized
in express terms the right of the            donors to dispose of the           in-

terest of thisfund, and even the fund itself, at their pleasure
for the good of the College  and the right to dispose of the
                                      ;



income from the funds, the Messrs. Phillips transferred to Dr.
Witherspoon until they should order otherwise.
  The only further action of the Board in this matter was the
                                        "
adoption of the following resolution      Resolved, That the
                                                    :




               from the donation of the Messrs. Phillips, of
interest arising

Boston, which has hitherto been submitted to the personal ap-
propriation of Dr. Witherspoon, the late President, agreeably
                                                                                  to

the instruction of the donors ; and the principal of the donation
now falls into the general stock, subject to the appropriation
of the Board."    The appropriation was not to the Doctor
personally, but made by him personally without
                                                   instructions
from the Board.    (On page 160 of the Minutes an extract from
the letter of the Messrs. Phillips was inserted at the request of
the President.)
  Whether Dr. Witherspoon was indebted to the College or the
College to him at the settlement of September, 1774, reported
in April, 1775, turns very much             upon the question whether his
assuming to pay ,243.1.4 of Mr. Baldwin's indebtedness to the
College, and also      115.6 for Mr. Woodruff (Stewards of the
College), are  to be viewed  as debts due by Dr. Witherspoon to
the    Collegeor to the persons named.      In the latter case the

College was indebted to him.
  The following passages from a notice to the public, of the date
                                        "
of September 28, 1781, published in the New Jersey Gazette"
of October 10, 1782, will serve to throw some light on these
APPENDIX TO DR. WITHERSPOOWS ADMINISTRATION. 37!

assumptions of debt on the part of Dr. Witherspoon "The     :




entrance money and the chamber rent must be paid to the
Treasurer, the tuition to the President, and the board to the
Steward, in advance for six months.      This last circumstance of
paying in advance every six months will not be in any instance
dispensed with, as the Trustees have renewed or ratified the for-
mer laiu, that if complaint is made by the Treasurer or Steward
that any student has not made his advance for the current half-

year, the President must either dismiss him from College or be
himself answerable for the debt.
  "With regard to enforcing punctuality in the payments, the
reader will easily perceive that the burden must be wholly on
the subscriber, who has already suffered so  much by arrearages
and pledging himself for persons at a distance, that nobody need
expect a repetition of the same expensive and dangerous com-
plaisance."
                         Signed by            DR. WITHERSPOON.


  In money matters, as well as in all others, Dr. Witherspoon's
course was not only perfectly correct, as finally acknowledged
by the Committee on Accounts, but truly generous, especially
during the period when the currency of the country was greatly
depreciated.  When, according to the understanding between
the Trustees and himself, he was entitled to receive his salary
in gold and silver, he, of his   own accord, took it for two years
in the depreciated currency ;    and in reference to his liberal and
generous conduct    in consenting to relinquish a large part of
his salary that better provision might be made for the instruc-
tion of the students, the Trustees expressed their views by the
                                        "
adoption of the following resolution      Resolved, That this
                                          :




Board do approve of this proposal ^nd interpretation [of a pre-
vious agreement], which they consider as an act of generosity
towards this corporation."
   At this very time the Board was indebted to Dr. Witherspoon
in the sum of .881.13.3, as appears from the report of Messrs.

W. P. Smith and John Bayard, the committee appointed to ex-
amine the Doctor's accounts.
  Upon the return of Messrs. Tennent and Davies from Great
372
       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

Britain, they deposited with the Trustees of the College           the
sum of ^"357.4.6 sterling, given to them while they were yet
abroad, for the education of poor and pious youth at the Col-
lege of New Jersey,    the beneficiaries, candidates for the min-
istry, to be designated by the Synod of New Jersey, and also
the allowances to them respectively.
  After his return home, the Rev. Gilbert Tennent received
from a gentleman  in Scotland two hundred pounds sterling,

regarded as equal to three hundred pounds proc. of New Jer-
sey, which sum the donor requested should be given to the
                           "
Trustees of the College,       in trust for one or other of the follow-

ing purposes, viz.: to the support of a pious and well-qualified
missionary in preaching the gospel among the Indians in North
America; or the supporting a pious and well-qualified school-
master in teaching the Indians the English language, and the
principles of natural and revealed religion  or for maintaining
                                                    ;



a pious and well-qualified Indian youth at the College of New

Jersey while prosecuting his studies there, in order to instruct-
ing his countrymen in the English language and the Christian
religion, or preaching the gospel to them   or for maintaining
                                                ;


a pious and well-qualified youth of English or Scotch extract,
at that College, during his preparatory studies for teaching; or

preaching the gospel among the Indians, in case an Indian
youth of suitable qualifications cannot at some particular time
be obtained   ;
                  with the express limitation, that the Synod of
New York (by whatever name that body in time coming be
called) shall direct and determine to which of the uses before
mentioned the yearly interest of the aforesaid principal sum
shall be, from time to time, applied     and which of the can-
                                           ;



didates for that particular use shall be preferred and how the
                                                        ;




overplus above what may answer the particular use at any
time pitched on (if any such overplus be) shall be employed, as
in providing Bibles or other good books conducive to promote
the general design."
  The Board accepted these trusts on the conditions prescribed.
Twenty years after, we find the following minutes, of the date of
September 27, 1775     :


  "
    The committee appointed at the last meeting to give their
APPENDIX TO DR. WITIIERSPOOWS ADMINISTRATION. 373

opinion upon the appropriation of the interest of the ,300
lodged in our treasury by the Synod are not prepared to de-
liver a report.
   "
      The Board, however, agreed that Mr. Brainerd should enjoy
that interest for the present year, according to the request of
the Synod, and the Clerk was directed to give Mr. Brainerd an
order to receive it.
  "
   The Board, considering that they paid 6 per cent, interest
and ran all the risk of the principal for the ^500 lodged with
them by [for] the Synod of New York, that they might apply
the interest of it to the education of pious youth, according to
the direction of the committee of the Synod appointed for that

purpose, Resolved, That they would not hereafter allow more
than 5 per cent, for that sum, and appointed Dr. Witherspoon,
Dr. Rodgers, Mr. Treat, Mr. Spencer, Mr. McWhorter, or a
majority of them, to be a committee to report this resolve to
the Synod of New York and Philadelphia.       If the Synod should
not agree to the allowance of 5 per cent., the committee were
instructed to deliver the money to that body, and were em-

powered to draw upon the Treasurer for the sum."
  The Synod did agree to the proposed reduction in the rate
of interest, and the money remained in the College treasury.
During the Revolutionary War the funds of the College suffered
a depreciation in their value to the extent of sixty-six per cent.
of the entire capital ; and these trust funds were   made to bear
their share of the loss.
  It is   somewhat remarkable that there should have arisen in
the mind of any one a doubt as to the right of the Synod to
direct to whom and for what purposes the interest accruing
from these particular funds should be paid, when the persons
who deposited these funds in the College treasury did provide
in express terms for the Synod's control of the interest, and so
informed the Synod and the Board and for twenty years both
                                     ;



Synod and Board had acted upon this understanding, without
any doubt or scruple as to its correctness.
  In the minute cited above, the fund for the education of poor
and pious youth is spoken of as " lodged by the Synod of New
York." It is not improbable that the word by was inadver-
374
        HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

tently used for the  word for, the substitution of which would
make the statement both precise and exact.      With respect to
the other fund, it was stipulated by the giver himself that the
interest   should be devoted to one or other of several pur-
poses as directed by the Synod, by whatever name that body
might be known in time to come and yet we find the Com-
                                    ;


mittee on Accounts in 1775 (the committee named above), in
their general report, questioning the extent of the Synod's

powers as to these funds, and holding that, in regard to the fund
for the education of poor and pious youth, the power of the

Synod extended no further than to the mere nominating of the
individuals to whom the income of this fund should be appro-

priated, and that this appropriation should be for their educa-
tion exclusively,  that is, for the payment of their tuition-fees

only,  and not at all for maintenance while engaged in pur-
suing their studies, and that the allowance made to each one
should be determined by the Trustees and not by the Synod.
It is rather extraordinary that the writer of the report, Dr.

Boudinot, should consider himself better qualified to judge
of the design of the donors than Messrs. Tennent and Davies,
who received these funds, who deposited them with the Trus-
tees, and   who, in a letter to the Synod, from London, of the
                                 "
date of October 25, 1754, say,    We    do by virtue of said trust
[the intrusting the funds to their care  for the purpose specified]

put the said sum into the hands of the Trustees of the College
of New Jersey, in trust, to be applied to the education of such
youth of the character above mentioned as shall be examined
and approved of by the Synod of New York, or by whatever
name that body of men may be hereafter called, and by them
recommended to the Trustees of said College, to be divided
among such youth /// such proportion as the Synod shall tJlink fit"
(See Minutes of the Synod of New York, for October, 1755.)
The only tenable position taken by the writer of the report is
that the money ought to be drawn from the College treasury

by order of the Trustees, and not upon an order given by the
Committee of the Synod. A record of the depositing of this
fund is not to be found in the minutes of the Board yet in;



the subsequent minutes there are repeated references to it.
APPENDIX TO DR. WITHERSPOON'S ADMINISTRATION. 375

   Of the other charitable fund of two hundred pounds ster-
ling, three hundred pounds proc., the College Committee on
Accounts say, " With respect to the 300 given with the de-
sign of educating scholars for Indian missionaries, the annual
interest of this money has been usually applied to the use of
the Rev. Mr. Brainerd,but upon what principle your committee
are unable to comprehend, as it appears to them to be acting

quite beyond the powers granted by the charter, and which, for
weighty reasons, the committee beg leave to recommend to the
fullconsideration of this corporation as a matter that greatly
concerns its Being as well as its Interests. Upon the whole, the
committee are clearly of the opinion that the income of these
moneys ought to be solely appropriated to the purpose of edu-
cating such young men as shall be directed by the Synod, or
other persons pointed out by the donor, and a particular account
be kept of such dispositions, so that it may at all times appear
that the trust has been duly performed."
  This is a most extraordinary report, involving both the Board
and the Synod in the charge of violating the trust confided
to them conjointly, and that for twenty years    and furnishing
                                                    ;




upon the face of it complete evidence that the writer did not
understand or disregarded the terms of the trust as laid down
in the letter written   by the donor himself, at the very time he
gave the money, and which was recorded in the minutes of the
Board for September, 1756; the very first purpose mentioned for
which the interest of the trust might be expended being " the
support of a pious and well-qualified missionary, in preaching
the gospel among the Indians of North America."          Was not
Mr. Brainerd just such a missionary? The report does not
state correctly the design of the trust when it omits all mention
of the fact just stated, and simply speaks of the educating of
scholars for Indian missionaries as the design of it.   If the

design is to be inferred from the language of the donor, there
can be no question as to the propriety of paying the interest of
this   fund to Mr. Brainerd while engaged     in    preaching to the
Indians and in maintaining a school among them. These are
the two objects first mentioned to which the income may,
at the discretion   of the Synod, be given.        The educating of
376         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

youths for teachers of the Indians was a secondary object of the
trust  at least it was mentioned after the other two
        ;
                                                        and the
                                                          ;




provision that they should be educated at the College of New
Jersey would seem at least to justify the Trustees in accepting
the trust, even if they were not clearly authorized by their
charter to hold funds for other than educational purposes under
their own direction. The report assumes and asserts that under
the charter the Board had no right to receive this fund for any
other than educational purposes, and that they should hold        it

for the education of youths of a certain character to be desig-
nated by the Synod, and for nothing else.        If in accepting the
trust the Trustees went    beyond their just powers, it is certain
that they did     not misconceive their duty under this special
trust, but had   most faithfully fulfilled it.
   Twenty-one years after this report on the finances of the Col-
lege was presented, the writer of it, in another report, made
April, 1796, makes use of the following language: "The chari-
table funds require the particular attention of the Board.  The
first   sum carried to this account consists of moneys collected
by Messrs. Tennent and Davies, in England, on a mission from
and at the expense of this Board. Yet these gentlemen have
thought proper of their own motion, without the consent of the
Board, and, as your committee conceives, any act of the donors,
by an instrument executed by them, to put the sum of .500
under the direction of another body no ways legally connected
with this corporation, and so inattentive has this Board been to
the circumstances of this case that in their minutes they have

deliberately recognized this     sum as lodged with them by that
body of men, and agreed to allow them 5 per cent, interest for
it, without there being even a color of right for such a transac-

tion in the opinion of a majority of        your committee.   Since
then another body of men [the General Assembly], equally un-
connected in law with the corporation, have claimed the right
to dispose of this money, as representing those who first laid
claim to it, who now call upon this Board to account for the
net proceeds thereof."
  "The next is that of the 200 sterling given by an un-
known person in Scotland, through Messrs. Tennent and Burr,
APPENDIX TO DR. WH^HERSPOOWS ADMINISTRATION. 377

for divers particular uses, two   only of which can be executed
by this Board, viz., that of educating an English or Scotch
youth, or an Indian youth, for the purpose of preaching the
gospel to the Indians, with the condition that the Synod of
New York and Philadelphia shall determine to which of the
purposes it shall be applied, and which candidate shall be pre-
ferred, the last of which only can be allowed to that   Reverend
Body.   Your committee cannot but observe that the interest
of this sum has been repeatedly paid to a purpose wholly
foreign to the duties of their trust limited in their charter, and
which cannot be justified by any of the powers contained
therein."
      If Governor Belcher, who gave the charter in the name of the

King, and who had it drawn up under his own eye, and dictated
its terms, and who presided at the meeting of the Board at
which this special trust was thankfully received by the Board
and cheerfully accepted, saw no objection to its terms if such
                                                         ;


an eminent lawyer as the Honorable William Smith, of New
York, who was also present when the trust was accepted, had
no scruples and intimated no doubt as to the right of the Board
to accept the trust with the conditions thereto annexed if Pres-
                                                             ;



idents Burr, Davies, Finley, and Witherspoon, in succession,
and for a period of forty years, did not discover that the Trus-
tees, by giving effect to the wishes of the donor, were endanger-

ing the being as well as the interests of the College, it cannot
be regarded as a matter of surprise that the Rev. Dr. Ashbel
Green, a member of the committee, and President of the Col-
lege at a later period, entered his dissent from this part of the
report, which was evidently written in a captious and fault-
              The imputation cast upon Messrs. Tennent and
finding spirit.
Davies was wholly gratuitous, and as uncalled-for as gratuitous.
They informed the Synod, and, no doubt, informed the Board,
in their report of the results of their mission, that the        moneys
here in question had been intrusted to themselves personally
to aid a certain class of youth in obtaining an education, and
that they, in virtue of that trust, had put the moneys into the
hands of the Trustees of the College for the aid of such young
men as might be recommended- by the Synod.             Those who
       VOL. i.   25
3 -g
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

forty years before   employed Messrs. Tennent and Davies in
their laborious but eminently successful agency for the College
were well satisfied with their course, took no exception to their
conduct, and expressed their gratitude for their valuable and
unrequited services.
  What was to hinder the Board from taking the school at
Brotherton, New Jersey, under their care, and employing Mr.
Brainerd to superintend it for them, if in no other way they
could accomplish the main object of the trust ? The charter
authorized the Board to establish a school anywhere in New
Jersey, as appears from the section relating to property.
   If it were so, that under the charter the Trustees could not
fulfil all the terms of the trust, in the case of the two hundred

pounds received from Scotland, why did not the committee
recommend that the trust itself be surrendered to the Synod,
or to other parties, who could legally administer it, instead of
insisting that the Board should in future restrict the expend-
iture of the   income therefrom to the education of a Scotch,
English, or Indian youth, or propose that application be made
to the Legislature for authority to administer this special trust
in the manner specified by the donor?
     Influenced by the statements and reasoning of the report of
April, 1793, the Trustees decided that the Board, by the inten-
tion of the donors, was under no obligation to take any direction
or advice from the  Synod of New York, or their successors,
in   the
       disposal of the  money obtained by Messrs. Tennent
and Davies in the Island of Great Britain and it was ordered,
                                           ;

"
  That a copy of the minute on this subject should be sent to
the Committee of the General Assembly appointed to designate
the beneficiaries, and to apportion to them their respective
allowances from the fund in question."
  The General Assembly appointed a committee to confer with
the Trustees in regard to this decision, and the result was, that
the Board rescinded their resolution and restored matters to
their former footing.

  Yielding to the representations of the Committee on Accounts,
made April, 1/96, that the charter did not warrant their holding
any funds, in trust or otherwise, except for the purposes of edu-
APPENDIX TO DR. WITHERSPOO^S ADMINISTRATION. 379

cation, the    Board resolved, that the interest arising from the
fund for the support of an Indian mission, etc., should be appro-
priated     by the Board to the education of a youth to be desig-
nated by the General Assembly.         And it does not appear that
the General Assembly, although informed of this resolution of
the Board, made any objection to it; influenced, probably, by
these two considerations: I, that the Indian mission at Brother-
ton, Burlington County,      New Jersey, to the support of which
the interest of this fund    had often been voted, had been given
 up and, 2, that the original fund of two hundred pounds ster-
    ;



 ling had been reduced to sixty-eight pounds sterling, or one
 hundred and two pounds proc. of New Jersey. The fund for
the education of poor and pious youth, collected in Britain by
 Messrs. Tennent and Davies, was reduced to one hundred and
fifty -two pounds sir shillings and jive pence proc., or            %
                                                         I o I I o. 1 1
                                                              .




sterling.
   These funds being so much diminished, the General Assembly
finally gave up all control of the interest, and permitted the
Trustees to dispense it at their discretion.
   As it may be as well to present at one view all matters re-
lating to the finances of the College during Dr. Witherspoon's
administration, brief mention will here be made of the other
funds, with some comments on the report of the Committee of
Accounts respecting them.
   In their report of April, 1775, this committee gave a statement
of the receipts from May, 1769, to September, 1774, and of this
                                      "
account of particulars they observe,    Hence it will be seen
that since May, 1769,  the Treasurer has received in donations
and subscriptions divers sums to the amount of 7468.1.1, and
that he had received, prior to the present account, before May,

   "
    Without these seasonable and providential aids your com-
mittee are of the opinion that this corporation must ere this
time have become totally bankrupt. For in 1769, before any
of these donations were received, the clear stock was (including
the charitable appropriations) about ^3000, of which about
^"1800 only was upon interest; and now the whole stock but
little   exceeds ;6ooo.    Hence it appears that since that time
380
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

there hath been expended of what ought, or at least might, have
been capital, a sum not much short of 5000."
   Here there is an unqualified censure, which is not warranted
by the facts of the case. The minutes of the Board furnish
evidence that the College was in pressing need of funds that
could be expended as soon as received, and that funds were
        and obtained with the expectation that a consider-
solicited
able portion of themwould be expended in paying the debts
and some of the current expenses of the institution, and in
making the best possible provision for the instruction of the
students.
  From the committee's own showing it appears that the entire
sum received during these jive years from interest of moneys
loaned, tuition-fees, rent of rooms, proceeds of lotteries, and
other sources, exclusive of bonds and donations, amounted to
only 4617.2.2, while the expenditures for salaries, for philo-
sophical and astronomical apparatus, for ordinary and extra
expenses (including those of agencies to solicit funds, for
lottery     agencies,       repairs    of buildings, improvement of the

grounds, paying of debts contracted before September, 1769),
and appropriations from the trust funds, amounted to 8058.2.5,
showing that the expenses exceeded the ordinary income by
  3441.0.3,* which excess of the expenses was paid from the
donations given not so much for the endowment of the College


  * As
          given by the committee, the expenditures and the receipts from September,
1769, to September, 1774, five years, are as follows:



                                      EXPENDITURES.
1774, September 28.
     To old debts discharged, including those due to Mr. Field (book-

      "
           seller of

          Philosophical apparatus       .......
                       London) and Mr. Sergeant (the Treasurer)   .   .
                                                                            649. 5.8
                                                                            416.13.4
      "
        Orrery
      " Officers' salaries for four
      " Omitted in the above
                                    years......                             284. 4.0
                                                                           3461. 4.1

      " Extra and
      " Charitable
                   ordinary expenses, five years      ....                  730
                                                                           2210. 2.0

                   appropriations (from the trust funds)   .      .   .
                                                                            306.13.4

                                                                          ^8058.   2.5
APPENDIX TO DR. WITHERSPOOW S ADMINISTRATION.                                    381

as for placing the institution in a condition in which it should
be fully able to accomplish the end for which it was established.
This was done; and had not the War of the Revolution come on
soon after, there is abundant reason to believe that the number
of the students would have greatly increased, and that the re-
sources of the institution would have been largely augmented. If
to this sum of        3441 0.3 be added the
                             .
                                                    302.97 refused Dr.With-
erspoon by the committee, but finally allowed him by the Board,
the excess of the expenses above the ordinary receipts would be
  3743.9.10, which could be paid only from the donations, which,
according to the committee's report, amounted to the sum of
  7468.1.1.     But, taking the case as it is presented by the com-
mittee, the differencebetween the donations from May, 1769,
to September, 1774,   7468. i.i, and the excess of the expendi-
tures above the receipts,  3441.0.3, is the sum of    4027.0.10,
which added to the        3000, the stock in 1769, would make
the  whole  fund,  in  September, 1774,    7027.0.10.  This sum,
diminished by the moneys reported to be in the hands of the
President and of the Treasurer respectively, and amounting to
  1230.5.7, leaves    5796.15.3, which, according to the commit-
tee's own statement, is very nearly the sum actually invested in
bonds and notes deemed to be good, and which, as estimated
                         "
by the committee, but little exceeds                 6000."            The difference
between    6000 and                                                     is very much
                     5796.15.3, viz.,                       203.4.9,
short of the   5000 which the committee intimated had been
improperly expended.   Had the Trustees undertaken to con-
duct the College upon the basis laid down in the report of the

                                    RECEIPTS.
1774, September 28.
    By interest, from September, 1769, accrued          .
                                                              ,1829.15. 5
    "
       Tuition, Chamber Rent, &c., from September,
          1769, to this day                                    2449.11. 5
    "
        Lottery, old account received     .     .    .          108. 7.10
    "
        Lottery account, cash received from Virginia,
          being amount of Samuel Morris's bond          .
                                                                170.13.   o
    " Cash received of Samuel Horner      .     .     .
                                                                 27. 7.10
    " do. received of Wm. P. Smith,
                                    Esq., Novem-
          ber, 1770                                              31. 6. 8
                                                                              4617-2.2

                                                                              3441.0.3
382
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

committee, they would never have had       7468.1.1 of donations
either to invest or to expend.    In the report of April, 1796, it
is   said that the donations since the year 1768, the time of Dr.
                                           "
Witherspoon's accession, amounted to the enormous sum of
                                                          "
  2 2 ,06 1 1 9. 5 a part of which was Continental money.
           .
               ,
                                                            B ut h o w
much was Continental money the committee do not say in their
report, nor have we the accompanying statement of the various
donations which make up this large sum. What proportion
was paid in Continental money must be a matter of conjecture:
if one-third, then its value, 17 for i, would give as the value

of this portion of the donations 433           ;
                                                    if one-sixth,   then their
value would have been ,216.10; and                 if   but one-twelfth, their
value would have been .108.5, according to the value of the
Continental    money as given      in their report           on Mr.    Leslie's
funds.  Take it at one-sixth of the whole donations, then the
value of the donations when made would have been, in the
ordinary currency,   18,384, and this s'um includes the   4529
received from the estate of Mr. Leslie and      1127 from the
estate of Mrs. Richards, making together    5006, leaving to be
accounted for       13,378 of donations.           Of these not less than
  3000 were invested, as has been made to appear from the
report made in April, 1775, and which from 1777 to 1779 depre-
ciated in value to       1000,    being a loss of              2000,   leaving
but    11,378.     The College    stock, in 1791, was estimated at
  958.6, irrespective of the trust funds,  and which may be fairly
regarded   as  donations  invested, and   worth,  before the depre-
ciation    in the currency,      2874.18, which, deducted from the
     11,378, will leave of the donations    9503.2 for excess of ex-
penditures above the regular College receipts from 1775 to 1796,
  the darkest financial period in the history of our nation,  or
less than   500 a year from donations, to assist in supporting
a corps of teachers and meeting all the ordinary expenses of
the College, and the extra expenses incurred from injury to the
College buildings, from loss of library and apparatus, from loss
of funds from depreciation of stocks, from diminution in the
number of students, and from a partial or total failure of per-
sons indebted to the College. The College building was ren-
dered unfit for use by the soldiery of Britain and America, and
APPENDIX TO DR. WITHERSPOON' S ADMINISTRATION.                       383

the demands to meet the current expenses were great    and      ;



had not the friends of the College generously come forward
and contributed funds, not for investment, but to meet press-
ing demands, the College would have failed, or its Faculty
would have been reduced below what its own interests and
those of the community required.
     That no mistakes were made by the College authorities of
that day in regard to financial matters, it is not the design of
these remarks to maintain, but it is their object to show that
there was  more cause for approval than for censure, and that
it would have been ruinous to act upon the rule laid down by
the committee in regard to the expenditure of funds, in the
circumstances in which, during the whole of Dr. Witherspoon's
administration, the College was placed.
   No words can express so strongly the hold which Dr. With-
erspoon and his associates had upon the confidence and good
will of the community at large, and more especially upon the
friends of religion and learning, as the fact that in their de-

pressed condition, after a long and arduous civil war, they
should have come forward with such great liberality to sustain
an institution requiring help to the extent that the College
of New Jersey did.
  The living gave cheerfully, and the dying, with confidence,
made bequests to the trust funds of the College, to secure what
the friends of the College themselves had so much at heart, the
preparation of pious youth for the gospel ministry.
  Not to speak now of smaller bequests, it was during the
administration of Dr. Witherspoon that Mrs. Esther Richards
made her bequest to the College           for the purpose   named      of
nearly     1
               127, or $3000, and Mr. Leslie his of more than       4500,
or $12,000,       gifts still sacredly devoted to the purpose for which

they were given, and which have been of unspeakable service
to the College and to the Church, in the yearly training of a
number of pious youth at the College for the Church.
                         CHAPTER XVI.
A MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON, D.D., LL.D., THE
    SIXTH PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.


   DR. WITHERSPOON was born in the parish of Yester, Scot-
land, on the 5th of February, 1722.    His father, the Rev. James
Witherspoon,   was  the minister of the  parish church, and he is
said to have been an uncommonly able and faithful preacher.
His mother, a devoted Christian woman, was a lineal descend-
ant of the great Scottish Reformer, John Knox      and also of
                                                        ;



his son-in-law, the famous John Welsh, minister of Ayr, whose

wife, Elizabeth,     was the youngest daughter of John Knox, a
woman in every respect worthy of such relationships.             Eliz-
abeth's mother,       Margaret Stewart, was a daughter of Lord
Ochiltree   ;
                and " the family of Ochiltree was of the blood royal."
  At the age of fourteen Dr. Witherspoon entered the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh,       where he pursued his studies for seven
years.   Upon being licensed to preach, he was invited to be an
assistant minister with his father, with the right of succession     ;



but receiving from the Earl of Eglinton, with the hearty consent
of the people, a presentation to the parish church of Beith, in
the west of Scotland, he decided to settle at Beith, and there
he was ordained to the work of the ministry.        After a few years
he was translated to Paisley, a large and flourishing town cele-
brated for its various manufactures; and here he remained until,
at the earnest request of the Trustees of the College of         New
Jersey, he left Scotland to take charge of this institution, which
he did in the summer of 1768.
  Dr. Witherspoon was the sixth President of the College.
  During his residence at Paisley he was          invited to Dublin,

Ireland, to take the charge of a large congregation in that city.
He was also called to the city of Rotterdam, in Holland, and to
     384
           MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.                                    385

Dundee, Scotland. All these calls he declined, being unwilling
to give up his important charge at Paisley, and to enter anew

upon the work of a parish minister and the formation of per-
sonal and family friendships.                And when first invited to become
the head of the College of New Jersey, he thought it his duty
to decline the offer, especially in view of the fact that his

family were unwilling to leave their native land for the trials
and hardships of a new country. But, in the providence of God,
he was led to review his decision, and both he and his family
came to the conclusion that it would be their duty to go to
America, should the offer above mentioned be renewed.*

  *  After this sketch was begun and nearly finished, the writer received from his
friend the Rev. Dr. C. C. Beatty, of Steubenville, Ohio, copies of two or three letters
written by his grandfather, the Rev. Charles Beatty, during a visit to Scotland in

1767.   As these letters have a special value in connection with the subject of this
memoir, the following extracts are here subjoined. The letters are addressed
to the Rev.R. Treat, of Abington, Pennsylvania. Both Mr. Beatty and Mr. Treat
were at this time Trustees of the College of New Jersey.
  In his   letter of the date of   October   15, 1767,   Mr. Beatty says, "On Saturday I
went to Paisley, sent for Dr. Witherspoon to my Inn, who in a very friendly man-
ner invited me to lodge at his house. At first I was reluctant, imagining that I
could not be agreeable to Mrs. Witherspoon no more than she would be to me, ac-
cording to the idea I had formed of her. However, upon his insisting upon it, I
consented  ;
            and I must confess I was very agreeably disappointed, for instead of
finding a poor, peevish, reserved, discontented, &c., I found a well-looking, gen-
teel, open, friendly woman,    which perhaps you will be surprised at. I preached
for the Dr. both parts of the day, and he lectured only ; he appears to me, as I be-
fore observed to you, to be a good speaker and preacher, tho' not a fine speaker. I
cannot think he is so old as you have heard, tho' I did not ask his age. I see
him make no use of spectacles, neither in public nor private. Mrs. Witherspoon, on
Monday before I came away, having an opportunity, made some modest apology
to me for her conduct when Mr. Stockton was there          she seemed to be much
                                                               :



concerned for it. She told me to this effect that at that time, and for some time
                                                  :




before, she was in a weak state of health, and tha in that situation things appeared
                                                         4^




very gloomy to her, crossing the sea, and that her husband might soon die, and
she be left in a strange land, &c.  I need say nothing to you now about choosing

a President for Jersey College,     for before now you will be fixed either by a choice
in America or here.    Dr. Witherspoon has had a call to a congregation in Dublin
this last summer, but he declined it.     In short, he told me that the call to the Col-
lege had been much on his mind, and that nothing had ever given him" The
words immediately following have become illegible, but the form of expression
indicates the great difficulty he had had in coming to a decision whether to accept
or decline the invitation to the College.
386
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  Upon Dr. Witherspoon's refusal to accept the proffered ap-
pointment, the Trustees chose the Rev. Samuel Blair, a graduate
of the College, but at this time pastor of the South Church,
Boston, President, with the expectation that he would enter upon
the duties of the office in the autumn of 1768.    Learning that
Dr. Witherspoon would probably accept the presidency of the
College should it again be tendered to him, with a promptness
that did him the highest honor Mr. Blair at once resigned his
claim to the office, that the Trustees might have it in their
power to elect Dr. Witherspoon a second time. This they did
on the Qth of December, 1767, and they did it unanimously.
   Released by the Presbytery from his pastoral charge, he took
his final leave of the church at Paisley in the                       month of May,
1768, preaching a farewell discourse from the words in Acts
xx. 26, 27: "Wherefore I take you to record this day, that I
am pure from the blood of all men. For I have not shunned to
declare unto you all the counsel of God."  It appears from the

minutes of the Trustees, of the date of August 17, 1768, in an
order respecting the time when Dr. Witherspoon's salary should
begin, that his connection with the church at Paisley ended the
1 5th of
         May preceding. And as this was a Sabbath-day, it was
probably the day on which his farewell discourse was delivered.
The month, but not the day of the month, is prefixed to this
discourse in the posthumous edition of his works, printed and
published by W.          W. Woodward, Philadelphia, in the year of
our Lord 1800.
   It is said   that a wealthy relative promised to make the Doctor
his heir if he would not go to America.



  Under the date of October 29, 1767, Mr. Beatty adds, "I had the other day
                   my friends in Edinburgh. One writes that there was a subtle
letters from some of

letter wrote over   from Princeton, under a pretence to encourage Dr. Witherspoon
to accept the call of N. Jersey College ; but it was quite the reverse.      Complaint is
also made that the Synod wants to take what was collected in Scotland out of the
hands of the corporation   ;
                               and that the widows' fund will, &c.,    but I shall be able
to set that matter in another light."

  Mr. Beatty had undertaken an agency, by the appointment of the Synod of New
York and Philadelphia, to collect moneys for the establishment of a fund for
the aid of ministers, their widows and families.
         MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.
                                                                       387

  Dr. Witherspoon and his family sailed from Glasgow, and,
after a tedious
              voyage, arrived at Philadelphia on Saturday,
the 6th of August, 1768.    In that city they were hospitably
entertained at the house of Mr. Andrew Hodge; and when in a
measure recovered from the fatigues of their passage, they left
Philadelphia for Princeton. Here they were received with every
demonstration of respect and kindness, and became for a time
the guests of Richard Stockton, Esq., the gentleman through
whom Dr. Witherspoon received the intelligence of his first
election to the presidency of the College, and who, being in
London at that time, went to Scotland to confer with Dr. Wither-
spoon on the subject of his removal to America.              On the even-
ing of the Doctor's arrival in Princeton the College edifice was
              "
illuminated   ;
                and not only the whole village, but the adjacent
country, and even the Province at large, shared in the joy of the
occasion."*
  The reception given him was very grateful to his feelings,
and he is said to have alluded to it in modest and becoming
terms   in his first public discourse after his         accession to the
presidency.
  His inauguration took place on the 1 7th of August, 1768, and
on this occasion, or at the ensuing Commencement, on the 28th
                                                          "
of the next month, he delivered an address in Latin on The
Union of Piety and Science." Although the College was in
much repute at home, and was favorably known in Great Britain
and Ireland, Dr. Witherspoon's administration of its affairs
added much to its reputation and usefulness.
                                      "
   It is said by President Green that   the method of instruction

by lecture had never   been practised in this institution till it was
                                            "
introduced by Dr. Witherspoon," and that he delivered lectures
on four different subjects, namely, on Composition, Taste, and
Criticism, on Moral Philosophy, on Chronology and History,
and on Divinity."
   His lectures on these several subjects, with the exception of
those on Chronology and History, or the outlines of them, are
published in Woodward's edition of his works.

        * Dr. Green's Address before the Alumni Association in 1840.
388
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

  We  are inclined to doubt the accuracy of the statement that
Dr. Witherspoon was the first at this College to use the method
of teaching by lecture, as something very like it must have
been employed by President Edwards on the few occasions on
which he met the students.* And in his letter of October 19,
1757, to the Trustees, he expresses his willingness, in case he
should accept their offer, " to do the whole work of a Professor
of Divinity in public and private lectures"   It may have been,

generally, and in some parts of the curriculum was the case,
that the topics or theses included in the recitation were dis-
cussed by the teacher at the close of that exercise rather than
apart from it.
  In an account of the College published by order of the Trus-
tees in   1764, four years before Dr. Witherspoon's arrival in
this country, the  author of the account, after mentioning the
methods of instruction pursued in the College, speaks of them
as offering "advantages which are seldom attainable in the
usual method of teaching by lecture." (See account of Presi-
dent Finley's administration, page 266.)
  Dr. Green also attributes to Dr. Witherspoon the introduc-
tion of the study of the Hebrew and French languages into
the College course of instruction. This, so far as the Hebrew is
concerned, is unquestionably an error.             In the account of the
College just referred to, it is expressly said that "the greater
number [of the students], especially such as are educating for
the service of the Church, are initiated into the Hebrew."                And
in his        mentioned above, President Edwards says, " It
          letter
would be out of my way to spend time in constant teaching of
the languages, unless it be the Hebrew tongue, which I should
be willing to improve myself in by instructing others ;" the
implication from which is that even in Mr. Burr's time the
Hebrew language was made a College study. And in the ac-
counts of the College published in 1764, it is said, "They now


  * Since the above was written, the writer has learned that Mr. Lewis Evans, of

Philadelphia, was employed by President Burr in the summer of 1751 to deliver
twelve lectures on Natural Philosophy, and that these lectures were accompanied
with experiments in electricity.
          MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHER SPOON.                                389

revise the most improving parts of the Latin and Greek classics,

part of the Hebrew Bible, and all the arts," etc.*
   Of Dr. Withersp oon' s labors as an officer of tile College, and as
an instructor of youth, and also of his efforts to increase tlie funds
and the usefulness of the institution, full mention was made in
the account of his administration of its affairs from the summer of

1768 to the autumn of 1794.
  In addition to his duties as President of the College, Dr.

Witherspoon discharged those of minister to the Princeton
church and congregation.              Not that he was formally installed
as pastor of this church, but that, in conformity to the course

pursued by his predecessors, he preached regularly on the
Sabbath to the students of the College and to the inhabit-
ants of the village, who in these days were                   wont to worship
together.
  In the year 1770 there was manifest among the students of
the College an unusual interest on the subject of religion, and
a like state of things occurred also in the winter and spring of
1772.   The fruits of these religious awakenings were most
happy, as they gave to the Church not a few of her ablest min-
isters and elders, and to the State some of her best and most
influential citizens. As usual in such times, some were very
earnest friends to these religious revivals, and others were zeal-
ous opponents, deeming them evidence of the fanaticism of those
who favored them.            That the     friends were always discreet, or
that the opponents were always sincere and honest, is more than
could reasonably be looked for in youth under this condition of
things.      Hence it should occasion no surprise that the more
ardent of the youth, on whichever side arrayed, should regard
the cautions given them by their wise and faithful President as
evidence that he was not fully in sympathy with those who
viewed these religious excitements as the work of the Holy
 Spirit, and as evidence that God had heard their prayers and
 had crowned with success their efforts for the conversion of not
 a few of their fellow-students. And this was actually the case

  *
      Recently the writer has learned from a letter of Mr. Joseph Shippen, a graduate
of 1753, that the Hebrew grammar was a study of the Freshman class in 1750.
390
           HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

in the present instance, as appears from a letter of the date of

April 1 8, 1772, addressed to the Rev. Dr. Bellamy by one of
the students, Mr. E. Bradford, afterwards pastor of the Congre-

gational church of Rowley, Massachusetts, and from a state-
ment made by Colonel Aaron Burr, who was also a student at
that time, and published by his executor and biographer.
Messrs. Bradford and Burr were fair representatives, one of the
decided friends, and the other of the equally decided opponents,
of the revival.
  The exact truth on this head may doubtless be gathered
from the following remarks by Dr. Ashbel Green, who was in-
timately acquainted with Dr. Witherspoon's opinions on this
and other subjects no man more so.
                            ;
                                       These remarks are
copied from an address before the Alumni Association of
Nassau Hall, delivered in September, 1840, at the time of
the annual Commencement.

  " It
         was, if I rightly remember, in the fourth year of Dr. Witherspoon's presi-
dency that a general revival of religion took place in the College. Several minis-
ters of the gospel, and several men in secular life, received in this revival those

impressions of religion which they carried with them through the remainder of
their lives. With several of these I had in early life an acquaintance. With one I
formed a most endeared friendship, and from him I received a number of particu-
lars, which ofthemselves would enable me to contradict what I have heard (for I
have not personally received),    a statement made in the   '
                                                                Life of Colonel Burr,'
that Dr. Witherspoon thought     and spoke light of this revival, and that he was, in
fact, opposed to it.   But in truth such a statement is so contrary to the known and
avowed sentiments of Dr. Witherspoon, and even to what he declared in his         '
                                                                                      Lec-
tures on Theology' were his chief motives in coming to this country, that it cannot
be correct, and I feel bound to make this declaration on the present occasion. He
might, and I know he did, endeavor to correct some irregularities and imprudences,
which usually take place when youth are under the excitement of strong religious
feeling; but that he rejoiced in the revival itself, instead of opposing it, there is
every reason to believe."


   From the very beginning of the controversies which led to
the War of Independence and to the severance of the thirteen
united Colonies from their allegiance to the British Crown, Dr.
Witherspoon openly and boldly took the part of his adopted
country.   And on the 1 7th of May, 1776, the day selected by
the National Congress to be observed as a day of fasting and
of prayer, he preached a sermon, the subject of which,
              MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.                                 39!
" the dominion of Providence over the
                                         passions of men," was founded upon the
words of the loth verse of the Ixxvi. Psalm " Surely the wrath of man shall praise
                                               :




thee   :   the remainder of wrath shall thou restrain."      This discourse was subse-
quently published with a dedication to the Hon. John Hancock, Esq., President of
the Congress of the United States of America, and with an appendix containing
" an address to the natives of Scotland
                                            residing in America."

  In handling his subject he went fully into a consideration of
the state of affairs in the American Colonies, and gave some
wholesome advice, in view of the arduous contest and the civil
     which were already begun, and pointed out the result
strife

which, in the ever overruling providence of God, might be
hoped for in this struggle for civil and religious liberty and he            ;



took occasion to warn his hearers and readers of the importance
of being prepared for death, which could be only by repentance
towards God and by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ such faith            ;


and repentance being intimately connected with a belief in the
natural depravity of man, from which sinful condition they
could be rescued only by the grace and power of God.
  Several things in this discourse are in full accord with the
advice given in a pastoral letter written by Dr. Witherspoon
and issued by the Synod of New York and Philadelphia the
year before, viz., in May, 1775. This letter recommends to all
under the care of the Synod to av&iv their allegiance to the British
Crown; and this was assented to by the entire Synod, with the
exception of the Rev. Jeremiah Halsey, who was a year in ad-
vance of his brethren in refusing allegiance. During this year
a great change took place in the views and feelings of the whole

community.    This change is clearly pointed out in the follow-
ing passage from Dr. Witherspoon's speech in Congress on the
conference proposed by Lord Howe:
  " We were
             contending for the restoration of certain privileges under the govern-
ment of Great Britain, and we were praying for a reunion with her. But in the
beginning of July, with the universal approbation of all the States now united, we
renounced this connection, and declared ourselves free and independent."

   The following short extracts will show why it was that Dr.
Witherspoon took such a deep interest in the contest between
the Colonies and the mother-country:
  " You are      all   my witnesses that this is the first time of my introducing any
political subject into the pulpit.    At this season, however, it is not only lawful but
392      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

necessary and I am willing to embrace the opportunity of declaring my opinion
          :



without any hesitation, that the cause in which America is in arms is the cause of
justice, of liberty, and of human nature. So far as we have hitherto proceeded, I
am satisfied that the confederacy of the colonies has not been the effect of pride,
resentment, or sedition, but of a deep and general conviction that our       civil   and
religious liberties, and consequently, in a great measure, the temporal and eternal
happiness of us and our posterity, depend on the issue.   .   There is not a single
                                                              .   .




instance in history in which civil liberty was lost and religious liberty preserved
entire.  If, therefore, we yield up our temporal property, we at the same time

deliver the conscience into bondage.
  " You shall
              not, my brethren, hear from me in the pulpit what you have never
heard from me in conversation; I mean railing at the King personally, or even his
ministers, and the parliament and people of Britain.   ... I do not refuse submis-
sion to their unjust claims, because they are corrupt or profligate. ... I call this
claim unjust of making laws to bind us in all cases whatsoever, becausethey      are
separate from us, independent of us, and have an interest in opposing us. ...
This is the true and proper hinge of the controversy between Great Britain and
America. This, however, is to be added, that such is their distance from us, that a
wise and prudential administration is as impossible as the claim of authority is
unjust. Such is and must be their ignorance of the state of things here, so much
time must elapse before an error can be seen and remedied, and so much injustice
and partiality must be expected from the acts and misrepresentations of interested
persons, that for these colonies to depend wholly upon the legislation of Great
Britain would be, like many other oppressive connections, injury to the master and
ruin to the slave."


   The views of Dr. Witherspoon, given in the above extracts,
met the hearty approval of the friends of civil and religious
liberty in this country    and they doubtless present, distinctly
                               ;



and fairly, the grounds of opposition to the absolute supremacy
of the British Government in all matters pertaining to the
Colonies.    The colonists, for the most part, were especially
jealous of their religious freedom, and, for good reasons, were
apprehensive that if their secular affairs were once under the
absolute control of the British Government their religious o
liberty would soon be lost, by the renewed efforts which would
be made to subject the people of this country to the jurisdic-
tion of the English hierarchy in all matters connected with the
education and religious instruction of the people.
  This apprehension, perhaps more than any one thing else,
induced the friends of religion generally to act in concert with
those whose aim was simply a political one,                           the separation
and the independence of the Colonies.
           MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.                               3^3

  It   seems to have been assumed, both by the Government and
the    Church of England, that wherever the Crown went it of
course carried Episcopacy with it.Upon no other principle can
we account for their persevering efforts to establish diocesan
Episcopacy in the Colonies generally. Of the attempts made
                         Church as a branch of the English
to establish the Episcopal
Government in America, and the influence which these attempts
had in bringing on the War of the Revolution, a detailed and
                                                              "
very interesting account is given in Dr. Hodge's Constitutional
History of the Presbyterian Church," vol. ii. pages 448-497.
   The sermon of which we speak was republished at Glasgow,
and it was accompanied with notes by an unfriendly hand. In
                                              "
these notes Dr. Witherspoon was spoken of as    a traitor and a
rebel'/' and no doubt this Glasgow edition of the sermon had
much to do in defeating the Doctor's efforts to collect funds
for the    College when, after the termination of the war, he went
to Scotland to solicit aid to repair the wastes which the institu-
tion had suffered from the protracted conflict.
  It is    rather surprising that a man of Dr. Witherspoon's repute
for wisdom        and sound judgment should ever have consented
to engage in such an undertaking, especially at such a time.
   The failure of his mission to England and Scotland was, how-
                  one happy result, viz., that the Trustees
ever, attended with
were thereby made to know that, if the College was to be re-
stored to its former prosperity and usefulness, it must, under

God, be due  to the efforts and liberality of its friends at home,
and more especially to the countenance and aid of the members
and judicatories of the Presbyterian Church and to them they
                                                          ;



again made an earnest and successful appeal.
  In May, 1776, Dr. Witherspoon was chosen a member of
the Convention which gave to New Jersey her republican
Constitution.
  " It has                                                              "
             always been understood," says Judge Elmer, in his valuable History of
the First Constitution of New Jersey," "that the Rev. Dr. Witherspoon, President
of Princeton College, took an active part in preparing it;" and he adds, "This in-
strument bears quite as prominent marks of a clerical as of a legal origin, although
two eminent lawyers, Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant and John Cleves Symmes,
were members of the Committee. The Rev. Jacob Green, of Morris County, was
the Chairman."
       VOL. I.   26
394
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

      On the 22d of June, Dr. Witherspoon was chosen by the
Convention, or Provincial Congress, a representative of New
Jersey in the Continental or General Congress.
      On the 4th of July, 1776, he voted for the Declaration of In-
dependence, and his signature                is   affixed to the document con-

taining that declaration.              The Articles of Confederation between
the States he signed in November, 1778, and in 1780 he left
Congress, but was induced to return to it the next year.
  At the close of 1782, the exigencies of the country no longer
demanding of him a sacrifice of his own interests and those of
the College, he retired from all service in the National Councils,
and gave himself up to the work of restoring the College to
its   condition before the war.      Of the character of the sacrifices
here referred to           we may form some idea from the following
extract from a letter written by Dr. Witherspoon to a friend in
Scotland.            The letter is of the date of March 20, 1780, and it
was penned at the Doctor's farm, near Princeton.
  "... I have now left Congress, not being able to support the expense of
attending  it, with the frequent journeys to Princeton, and being determined to

give particular attention to the revival of the College.   Professor Houston, how-

ever, our Professor of Mathematics, is a delegate this year ; but he tells me he will
certainly have to leave it next November.         I   mention this circumstance to confirm
what I believe I wrote you formerly, that the members of Congress in general not
only receive no profit from that office, but I believe five out of six of them, if not
more, are great losers in their private affairs. This cannot be otherwise, for none
of the delegates are allowed to have any lucrative office whatever either in their
own States or in the United States
                                ; though their expenses should be fully borne,
their time   taken up and their private estates are neglected.
                is                                                    You know
                                                                          .   .   .




that I was always fond of being a scientific farmer. ... I got a dreadful stroke
from the English when they were here, they having seized and mostly destroyed
my whole stock, and committed such ravages that we are not yet fully recovered
from it.
  " As to
           public affairs, it seems to be yet undetermined whether we shall have
peace soon. Greatly do I and many others desire it ; and yet were our condition
ten times worse than it is, nothing short of the clear independence of this country
would be accepted."

      It   is   by no means improbable                that   had he    fallen into the

hands of the English army in the early part of the war he
                                             "
would have received the ordinary treatment of a traitor and
rebel," if the following           account of an attempt to burn him in
                                                               "
effigy be correct.           It   istaken from Frank Moore's     Diary,"
           MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.                                395

of the date of July 30, 1776, and it is said to be given on the
authority of a soldier in Howe's army.

  "Just before the thunder-storm last week the troops on Staten Island were pre-
paring figures of Generals Washington, Lee, and Putnam, and Dr. Witherspoon, for
burning   in the night.   The figures had all been erected on a pile of fagots, the
generals facing the doctor, and he represented as reading to them an address. All of
them, excepting General Washington, had been tarred and prepared for the feathers,
when the storm came on, and obliged the troops to find shelter. In the evening,
when the storm was over, a large body of the troops gathered around the figures,
which, being prepared, were set on fire amid the most terrible imprecations against
the rebels. One of the party seeing that Generals Putnam and Lee and Dr. With-
erspoon burnt furiously and were almost consumed, while General Washington was
still standing, with the tar
                             burning off, ran away frightened, and was soon followed
by most of his companions. Next morning the figure was found as good as it ever
was a fact which caused a good deal of fear among the Hessian troops, most of
    ;


whom were superstitious, and it was not until some of the officers told them the
cause of its not burning that they appeared contented. The reason was that, having
no tar on it before the rain commenced, it became saturated with water, and the tar
only would burn."


   This story, true or false, serves to show that in the opinion of
both friends and foes Dr. Witherspoon was one of the mont
prominent in advocating the Revolution or, to use an expres-
                                                      ;



sion of John Adams, the second President of the United States,
                                "
respecting him, he was              as high a son of liberty as any man in
America."
  While yet a member of the Provincial Congress, Dr. Wither-
                             "
spoon came to be regarded      as profound a civilian as he was
known to be a philosopher and divine." He had clear and
decided views concerning all matters of public interest, and in
regard to several important measures his opinions were in
advance of those of the majority                in the    National Congress.
Particularly was this the case with respect to the emission of
unfunded paper, and the purchase of supplies for the army by
allowing a commission on the moneys expended, to both of
which measures he was much opposed. Some who in Con-
gress dissented from his views on these subjects afterwards
adopted them, and at their suggestion he published the speeches
in which he had given utterance to them.       At this day, few
persons acquainted with suck matters will venture to question
the soundness of his positions. Demagogues who know better
396
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

may, for party or personal considerations, advocate a different
course.
  The Doctor was a leading member of different committees,
and occasionally he took part in the discussions that arose
in Congress; but before speaking upon any important question

he was wont to commit his thoughts to writing; and then,
watching for a favorable opportunity, he introduced what he
had to say by first alluding to something said by a preceding
speaker, and thus he gave to his speeches the air of extempo-
raneous remarks, while they had all the advantage of a logical
and compact arrangement. He knew that he was master of
his subject, and those who heard him knew that what he was
about to say was worth hearing. And yet, perhaps, there were
but few men in such an assembly as well qualified as he to take
part in an extemporaneous discussion.
   He was a man of heroic spirit and of resolute purpose, and
in the      darkest aspect of public affairs he never despaired of
the      finaltriumph of the cause in which he had engaged, and
which he regarded as the cause of religion as well as that of
civil liberty.

  His wisdom and foresight as a statesman are shown in a clear
and strong light by the ground he took in reference to the
original confederation of the States.
  " He complained of the jealousy and ambition of the individual States, which
were not willing to entrust the general government with adequate power for the
common interest. He then pronounced inefficacy upon it. But he complained
and remonstrated in vain.           He particularly remonstrated against the tardy, ineffi-
cient, and faithless manner of        providing for public exigencies and debts by requi-
sition   on the several   States.     He insisted on the propriety and necessity of the
government of the Union holding in its own hands the entire regulation of com-
merce, and the revenues that might be derived from that source. These, he con-
tended, would be adequate to all the wants of the United States." (See sketch of
his life in Dr. Rodgers's Funeral Sermon.)


  The evils against which he protested so earnestly in the plan
of confederation between the States were happily corrected in
the Constitution of 1789, and he was permitted to see his views
on these points fully sustained by the adoption of this Federal
Constitution, established for the very purpose of effecting a
more perfect union of the States.
            MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.                                  397

      Although he became a statesman, he ceased not to be a minis-
ter of the gospel, but continued to preach as opportunity offered,
and to discharge all other duties which pertained to the sacred
office.    But, great as were the services which he rendered the
country by his wise counsels in the National Congress, and in
the sessions of Presbytery and Synod, with respect to national
affairs, it admits of question whether his example on the whole
would not have been more salutary had he confined himself to
matters which properly belong to a minister of the gospel at the
head of a college.
      The question, whether a minister of the gospel should take
part in the administration of civil affairs, and should be allowed
to hold offices of trust and power in the Commonwealth, is to
be determined by the minister himself, without hindrance from
any source, unless it be from the Church to whose service he
professes to devote himself.    As a member of the civil com-
munity, in a republic at least, he is entitled to all the privileges
of a citizen; and we heartily sympathize with Dr. Witherspoon
in the rebuke which he administered to the Convention that

framed the Constitution of the State of Georgia, which body
proposed to deprive every minister of the gospel of the right
to have a seat in the Legislature.               The Doctor's strictures are
contained in a letter to the publisher of a paper which had
given in its columns the new Constitution they are a com-    :



ment upon the resolution, "No clergyman, of any denomination,
shall be a member of the General Assembly;"                      and he suggests
the following alterations:
  " No
        clergyman, of any denomination, shall be capable of being elected a mem-
ber of the Senate or House of Representatives, because [here insert the grounds of
offensive disqualifications, which I have not been able to discover.]      Provided
always, and it is the true intent and meaning of this part of the Constitution, that
if at any   time he shall be completely deprived of the clerical character by those by
whom he was invested with it, as by deposition for cursing and swearing, drunk-
enness or uncleanness, he shall then be fully restored to all the privileges of a free
citizen ; his offence shall   no more be remembered against him      :   but he may be
chosen either to the Senate or House of Representatives, and shall be treated with
all   the respect due to his brethren, the other members of the Assembly."


      Lest the reader      may infer that Dr. Witherspoon was of the
opinion that in an ordinary state of public affairs it was expe-
3o,S
          HISTORY 0* THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

dient or desirable that ministers should be                        members of the
Legislature or take part in the affairs of state, it may be well
to cite, in addition to the above, another passage from the same
article   :




  "
    Perhaps it may be thought that they are excluded from civil authority that they
may be more fully and constantly employed in their spiritual functions. If this had
been the ground of it, how much more properly would it have appeared as an order
of an ecclesiastical body with respect to its own members.    In that case I should not
only have forgiven, but approved and justified it ; but in the way in which it now
stands it is evidently a punishment, by loss of privilege, inflicted on those who go

                                                     gentlemen of Georgia may
into the office of the ministry, for which, perhaps, the
have good reasons, though I have not been able to discover them."

  It is by no means improbable that Dr. Witherspoon found,

from his own experience, that constant attention to civil affairs
for a     term of years had no tendency to promote a minister's
usefulness, but, on the contrary, that it required increased watch-
fulness on his part to prevent a decline in personal piety and
in devotion to the work of his holy calling.
   Before he was chosen President of the College he had at-
tained, both at home and abroad, a well-earned reputation as a
man of great talent, learning, and piety, and he was regarded
as the head of the orthodox party of the Church of Scotland,
and as their leader in the General Assembly of the Established
Kirk.   His opponent at the head of the Moderates, as the
dominant party was styled, was the well-known historian, Dr.
William Robertson, Principal of the University of Edinburgh.
Although usually in a minority, Dr. Witherspoon on one occa-
sion carried, in the Assembly, an important measure against
his rival's opposition, upon which Dr. Robertson said to him,
                       "
in a pleasant manner,    You have your men better disciplined
                        "                                          "
than formerly."    Yes," replied Witherspoon  by urging your   ;




politics too far you have compelled us to beat you
                                                   with your
own weapons."     (See Dr. Rodgers's Fune'ral Sermon.)
  His translation from Beith to Paisley was earnestly opposed
by the Presbytery of Paisley, on account of his being the re-
                     "
puted author o'f the Ecclesiastical Characteristics," a keen and
severe satire upon the Moderates in the Church of Scotland.
From the Presbytery the question of the transfer came to the
Synod of Glasgow and Ayr, and by the Synod the Presbytery
          MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.
                                                                                399

was instructed to receive the Doctor as a member of their body
and to instal him as pastor of the church at Paisley.   His re-
moval from Beith to Paisley took place in January, 1757, and
in that   or the next year he was chosen Moderator of the Synod.
In 1768 he left Paisley for America. Here he soon became the

leading man in the different Church courts of which he was a
member, and to the close of his life he was held in the highest
esteem by his brethren  in the ministry.   He was chairman of
the large committee appointed by the Synod of New Jersey and

Philadelphia, in 1785,
" to take into consideration the constitution of the Church of
                                                              Scotland, and other
Protestant Churches, and, agreeably to the general principles of Presbyterian gov-

ernment, compile a system of general rules for the government of the Synod and
the several Presbyteries under their inspection, and the people in their communion,
and to make report of their proceedings herein at the next meeting of Synod."

   He was also the chairman of another committee, appointed
at this same meeting, to confer with like               committees from the
"
  Dutch Reformed Synod, and from the Associate Reformed
Synod, with respect to the measures that should be taken to
promote a friendly intercourse between the three Synods and                 ;



to devise a plan of some kind of union among them, whereby

they might be enabled to unite their interests and combine
their efforts for promoting the great cause of truth and vital

religion."
  This action arose from a report made by a committee ap-
pointed, the year before, to meet one which it was expected
would be appointed by the Dutch Reformed Synod, to adjust
matters of difference existing between them, and to enter upon
an amicable correspondence on subjects of general utility and
friendship between the Churches.
  The committees from the three Synods met, and they con-
ferred at large upon the matters intrusted to them, and made
an interesting report, which is given in the printed Minutes of
the Synod of New York and Philadelphia, pages 518-522.
   At this same meeting of the Synod, in May, 1785, measures
were first taken for the division of the Synod into four separate
Synods, and for the establishing of a General Synod, or Assem-
bly; and at a meeting held in May, 1788, all the requisite steps
4<jO
          HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
                                                                   i




having been taken, the proposed division of the Synod was
consummated, and Dr. Witherspoon was appointed to open the
sessions of the first General Assembly with a sermon, on the

firstThursday in May, 1789, and to preside until a Moderator
be chosen. At the same time he was appointed chairman of a
committee to revise the chapter in the Directory respecting the
mode of inflicting Church censures, with instructions to lay the
revision before the General Assembly at their first meeting, to
be considered and   finally enacted. The same committee was
also charged with
" the
        duty of revising that part of the draught for a directory for worship which
respects public prayer and prayers to be used on other occasions, and to prepare it
for printing with the Constitution."


  These things show the active part he took in the organization
of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in this
country.  He was a member of the Assembly in the years
1787, 1791, 1792, and again, but for the last time, in 1794, in
November of which year he departed this life.
   Dr. Witherspoon was distinguished for the variety and accu-
racy of his knowledge religion, ethics, politics, literature, sci-
                                :




ence, and matters pertaining to common life had all received
from him more or less attention and his published works afford
                                           ;



evidence of his familiarity with most of the subjects here
named.
   Simplicity and plainness of style, strength and purity of
language, perspicuity of statement, and vigor of thought are
characteristics of all his writings.
   His discourses from the pulpit are worthy of special notice,
on account of their numerous and most happy quotations from
Scripture, both for proof and for illustration. In the respect
just mentioned, Dr. Witherspoon's sermons are particularly de-
serving the attention of young ministers, who cannot fail to
add to the impressiveness of their discourses by following so
admirable an example.   No language is better understood by
most hearers in Christian congregations than the language of
the Bible and an apposite citation of Scripture texts enforces
              ;


with wonderful power the lessons to be inculcated.
    Dr. Witherspoon, as we learn from Dr. Green,
          MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.                                     ^ OI
" was wont to deliver his discourses from
                                          memory, and yet he never repeated
from memory any considerable portion of Scripture, however perfectly recollected,
but opened the Bible, and read it from the sacred text.   His action in speaking
never exceeded a graceful motion of his right hand, and the inclination of his body
forward, when    much in earnest. His greatest defect in public speaking was the
lowness of his voice  when he began. For, although his voice was remarkably
articulate, the distant part of a large audience could not hear it distinctly for a few
sentences at first afterwards, if profound silence was observed, all that he said
                     ;



was easily audible by every attentive hearer. He affirmed that the nature of his
voice required this gradual increase of its volume to prevent its failing altogether.
Yet, take his pulpit addresses as a whole, there was in them not only the recom-
mendation of good sense and powerful reasoning, but a gracefulness and earnestness,
a warmth of affection and solemnity of manner, especially toward and at their close,
such as were calculated to produce the best effects of sacred oratory. Accordingly,
his popularity as a preacher was great.   The knowledge that he was to conduct
a public service usually filled the largest churches in our cities and populous towns,
and he never failed to command the attention of his audience.         His public
                                                                      .    .   .




prayers were admirable, plain in language, correct, methodical, abounding in a
choice selection of Scriptural phrases, and uttered with the appearance of deep
devotional feeling.      When offered on special occasions their appropriateness was
singularly excellent.      His manner of introducing and administering the Lord's
Supper surpassed any other performance of that sacred service which the writer
                                  "
[Dr. Green] ever witnessed." (See   Sprague's Annals," vol. iii.)

  There can be no better authority in regard to the matters
mentioned in this extract than that of its author, a favorite
pupil and, in later life, an intimate friend of Dr. Witherspoon                           ;



and there can be no room for doubt that we have here the
deliberate judgment of the community in general with respect
to Dr. Witherspoon's preaching; and yet it occasions us no

surprise that, at the time of the religious excitements which
occurred      in the earlier part of his presidency, he                   should have
                                             "
been regarded by some of his pupils as                  a dull preacher,"          this

being the expression used by one of them, in a letter to the Rev.
Dr. Bellamy, to convey an idea of the opinion entertained of
Dr. Witherspoon's preaching by the writer of the letter and by
some of his fellow-students. It is not improbable, however,
that as their warmth of feeling subsided, and they were able to
look at matters more calmly, they formed a juster estimate of
their President as a preacher,              instructive, earnest, and faithful.

                         DR. WITHERSPOON AS A TEACHER.

    There can be no doubt as to Dr. Witherspoon's great ability
402       HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

as a teacher, in   awakening the attention of his pupils to the
subjects handled by him, and in impressing upon their minds
the truths he sought to inculcate. The influence he exerted in
moulding the views and opinions of a large number of youth
who in after-life became leading men both in Church and in
State, without any direct or explicit testimony on this head,
would suffice to show that his reputation as a teacher rested
upon a firm basis.
  Of the four hundred and sixty-nine graduates of the College
during Dr. Witherspoon's presidency, one hundred and fourteen
became ministers of the gospel; and of these ministers nineteen
became Presidents or Professors in different institutions in the
States of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee thirteen of
                                                    ;


the nineteen being Presidents of the colleges with which they
were severally connected.  Not less than twenty-seven others
became men of note and able and successful pastors of churches
in Massachusetts,   New Hampshire, Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, and District of Columbia.
  Of the three hundred and fifty-five graduates not ministers of
the gospel, a very large number became distinguished civilians,
and not a few efficient officers in the United States Army.
  One was for eight years President of the United States.
  One was for four years Vice-President.
  Six were members of the Continental Congress.
  Twenty were Senators of the United States.
  Twenty-three were members of the United States House of
Representatives.
  Thirteen were Governors of individual States, viz., the States
of Vermont, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia.
  Three were Judges of the       Supreme Court   of the   United
States.

  Tzventy or more were United States officers in the army of the
Revolution.
   TJiirty others, at least, became distinguished, some for their
culture of letters, some for their medical skill and knowledge,
           MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.                           403

others for their legal attainments and as judges and attorneys-
general, and others as active and useful citizens.
  The names of the persons here referred to are given in our
history of Dr. Witherspoon's administration.
  At the time Dr. Witherspoon entered upon the duties of his
office as President of the College, the speculations of
                                                      Berkeley
were attracting the attention of the riper scholars among the
students, who were fascinated by the acuteness of their author
and by the novelty and boldness of his positions. But this did
not long continue, and the common-sense view of things which
was beginning to prevail in Scotland soon gained the ascend-
ency here, under the guidance of the new President, and on the
part of the students the doctrine of the idealists became a
matter for jest rather than for serious debate.             As an instance,
"
    He has only swallowed a red-hot idea," was the sportive remark
of one of them respecting a fellow-student who had been too
eager to partake of some hasty-pudding.
  In this connection should be stated what Dr. Ashbel Green,
           "
in   his Life of Dr. Witherspoon," says respecting his mode
of treating the Ideal system of Berkeley, and of the origin of
                                                       "
the common-sense system of Metaphysics.                    He first reasoned
against the [Berkeleyan] system, and then ridiculed it till he
drove it out of the College. The writer [Dr. Green] has heard
him say that, before Reid or any other author of their views
had published any theory on the Ideal system, he wrote
against it, and suggested the same trains of thought which they
adopted, and that he published this essay in a Scotch maga-
zine." *
  It will readily be conceded, by those familiar with the history

of our country and also with that of our College, that of the
statesmen graduated here during the administration of Presi-
dent Witherspoon, James Madison, the fourth President of the
United States, was the ablest and most eminent; and few will
question the propriety of placing at the head of the teachers


  * This                                                       "
          passage is copied from President McCosh's admirable    History of the
Scottish Philosophy," and not directly from President Green's
                                                              " Life of Wither-

spoon."
404      HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

and divines trained here during the same period Samuel Stan-
hope Smith, the immediate successor of Dr. Witherspoon in
the presidency of the College.     This eloquent preacher and
elegant  scholar, without  a rival  among his class-mates, was
one of those students who were carried away with the subtleties
of the Bishop of Cloyne.   But under the more practical view
of things presented by Dr. Witherspoon in his lectures on
Moral Philosophy, he embraced the opinions of his new pre-
ceptor, and maintained them ever after.
   Bishop Berkeley's great abilities no one can question, and he
was a man to be loved and honored for his noble qualities of
head and heart.
   To point out the influence exercised by Dr. Witherspoon in
moulding the views and character of Mr. Madison, I shall em-
ploy the language of Mr. Madison's biographer, William C.
Rives, himself a statesman and a scholar:
  " We have                             " how liberal and
              seen," says Mr. Rives,                        expansive a field of inquiry
was opened to the students by the additions which Witherspoon made to the pre-
vious curriculum of the College.      The increased attention paid to the study of the
nature and constitution of the human mind, and the improvements which had been

lately introduced  into this fundamental part of knowledge by the philosophical

inquiries of his own countrymen, constituted a marked and a most important
                                                                           feature

of Dr.  Witherspoon's  reforms.   Mr. Madison formed a taste for these inquiries
which entered deeply, as we shall hereafter have occasion to remark, into the char-
acter and habits of his mind, and gave to his political writings in after-life a pro-




        ****.*****
found and philosophical cast, which distinguished them eminently and favorably
from the productions of the ablest of his cotemporaries.

  " It is a matter of natural and
                                    interesting inquiry to learn what were the personal
relations formed between that eminent man, who was at the head of this seat of
learning and patriotism, and the pupil, upon whom more than upon any
                                                                     other one
he seems to have impressed the distinctive characteristics of his own mind, for no
                                                          to remark how much the
intelligent reader acquainted with their works can fail
same clearness of analytical reasoning, the same lucid order, the same precision
and comprehensiveness combined, the same persuasive majesty of truth and felici-
tous diction, shine forth in the productions, whether written or spoken, of both.
Such intellectual affinities, joined to moral worth, could not but form a strong
bond of friendship, and of mutual confidence, attachment, and respect, between
them.  These sentiments are warmly manifested by the pupil in a letter written
from Princeton to his father the gth of October, 1771 'I should be glad if your
                                                            :




health and other circumstances should enable you to visit Dr. Witherspoon during
his stay in Virginia.   I   am persuaded you would be much pleased with him, and
                                           "
that he would be very glad to see you.'
             MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.                                    405
  Mr. Rives adds,    " Dr.
                             Witherspoon continued       to feel a lively interest in       the
studies and pursuits of his pupil after the formal connection of the lattf-r with the

College was terminated. Young Madison, appreciating at its just value the aid of
so enlightened a guide and counsellor, and desiring to avail himself of the riches
of the College Library, determined after his graduation to pass one year more at
Princeton as a private student. The preceptor and pupil were destined to meet
again, after the lapse of nine years, in the supreme councils of the country, as
co-workers in the great cause of national independence and national union."


  Mr. Bancroft also refers to Dr. Witherspoon's influence in
impressing upon Mr. Madison's mind the only true views on
the subject of religious liberty. Speaking of the declaration
of rights submitted to the Convention of Virginia in May,

1776, he remarks        :




  "                                                             Mason had written that all
      Only one clause received a material amendment.
should enjoy the fullest toleration in the exercise of religion. ... A young man,
then unknown to fame, of a bright hazel eye, inclined to gray, small in stature,
light in person, delicate in appearance, looking like a pallid, sickly scholar among
the robust men with whom he was associated, proposed a change.         He was James
Madison, the son of an Orange County planter, bred in the school of the Presbyterian
dissenters under Witherspoon at Princeton,* trained by his own studies, by medita-
tive rural life in the Old Dominion, and by an ingenuous indignation at the perse-
cution of the Baptists, by innate principles of right, to uphold the sanctity of

religious freedom.  He objected to the word toleration, because it implied an estab-
lished religion, which endured dissent only as a condescension ; and as the earnest-
ness of his convictions overcame his modesty, he went on to demonstrate that            '
                                                                                            all

men are equally entitled to the free exercise of religion according to the dictates of
conscience.'   His motion, which did but state with better dialectics the very pur-
pose which Mason wished to accomplish, obtained the suffrages of his colleagues.
                          " was the first achievement of the wisest civilian of
This," adds Mr. Bancroft,
Virginia."

                       DR. WITHERSPOON'S WRITINGS.

  Dr. Witherspoon's first publication appeared in the year 1753*
under the title of " Ecclesiastical Characteristics, or The Arena
of Church Polity," a keen satire, aimed at certain principles
and practices then prevailing in the Church of Scotland. So
great was the popularity of this work that no less than Jive
editions of it were issued within ten years from the time of its
first appearance.  The name of the author was not given on
the title-page, but it was generally and correctly ascribed to


                              * The italics
                                              by the copyist.
             HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

him and the manner in which it was received, by both friends
         ;



and foes, was an earnest of the position he was soon to occupy
in the councils of the Scottish Kirk.    The work was favorably
spoken  of  by  the Bishops  of London  and  of Oxford, and it is
                                    "
mentioned in President Davies's       Diary," during his visit to
England   and  Scotland  in 1753-4^3 "a burlesque, the humor of
which is nothing inferior to Dean Swift's." At the close of the
introduction to this essay occurs the following                :




  " N. B.  I shall make very little use of Scripture, because that is contrary to some

of the maxims themselves; as will be seen in the sequel."


     This performance was defended in a later one under the title
of
     "
         A Serious Apology" for the Characteristics.
                                       "
     In 1756 he published hisEssay on Justification," which has
been repeatedly reprinted  and in the next year appeared his
                                   ;

"
  Serious Inquiry into the Nature and Effects of the Stage,"
being an attempt to show that the contributing to the support
of a public theatre is inconsistent with the character of a Chris-
tian.        What gave rise to the writing and the publication of this
treatise was the representation in the theatre at Edinburgh of a

tragedy written by a minister of the Church of Scotland. In
                                     "
1784, Dr. Witherspoon published his    Practical Treatise on Re-

generation," and at the same time he republished several of his
other works. These were all issued from the London press, in
three volumes.
  A sermon entitled " Seasonable Advice to Young Persons"
was preached by Dr. Witherspoon, on Sabbath, the 2 1st of
February, 1762, at the Laigh Church, Paisley, from the 1st
                       "
verse of the ist Psalm   Blessed is the man that walketh not
                               :




in the counsel of the   ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sin-
ners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful." The sermon was
                                             "
soon after published, and to it was prefixed   an authentic nar-
rative of a disorderly and riotous meeting, on the night before
the celebration of the Lord's Supper in that place, which gave
occasion to the discourse."
     In this "authentic narrative" he makes mention of                         mock
preaching and praying, and use of the words employed in ad-
ministering the Eucharist, and he gives the names of sundry
          MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN W1THERSPOON.                         407

young men engaged in these wicked and disgraceful acts.
The righteous indignation of the author of the sermon and of
"the authentic narrative" against the conduct of the persons
concerned is more to be commended than the judgment ex-
hibited by him in publishing their names, especially if it were
the aim of the author of the narrative to bring the guilty parties
to a sense of the sinfulness of their conduct, and to repentance for
it.    At the close of the narrative, the Doctor suggested that one
of the party who considered himself aggrieved by the charge
made against him, and who was a young lawyer, a Writer to
the Signet,   should prosecute one of his associates who had
given the  information respecting his impious allusion to the
Lord's Supper, and get him punished in the manner he justly
deserved if the charge were false. Acting perhaps upon this
suggestion, the party chiefly implicated, or some other one of
the company, brought suit against the Doctor himself for defa-
mation of character.      And although it is more than probable
that the charges against the whole company were substantially
true, yet, the evidence    adduced         failing, in   the opinion of the
judges, to establish their guilt undeniably, the Doctor was sub-
jected to a fine and costs, which greatly embarrassed him, and
laid his friendsunder pecuniary obligations from which they
were not relieved at the time he left Scotland for America.
The gentleman who communicated some of these facts in a
                                                "
letter   to Dr.   Green   the letter       in       Sprague's Annals," vol.
                                       "
iii.
     gave     as his impression
             it                    that had it not been for the

friendly interference of those particularly interested in his wel-
fare, he would have been prevented at the time from             leaving the
country."     And had he been so prevented, who can conceive
the loss which would   thereby have been sustained by the
College and by the country at large ?
  The circumstances here detailed remind us of a like indis-
cretion on the part of President           Edwards while pastor of the
church at Northampton, Massachusetts (of which mention was
made in our sketch of his life). And it is not a little remark-
able that the two most eminent men ever at the head of our

College should have involved themselves in great and ap-
parently needless troubles from a lack of discretion in dealing
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

with sundry wayward young persons under their pastoral over-
sight by giving publicity to their faults and their names. But
these were isolated cases.    On the part of neither was there
ever a repetition of the mistake; and throughout Dr. Wither-
spoon's administration of twenty-six years he was eminently
happy in directing the government and the                    discipline of the
College.
  The edition of his works published in Philadelphia, in 1800,
by W. W. Woodward, printer, under the supervision of the
Rev. Dr. Ashbel Green, contains all of his writings ever given to
the public.  Some of the pieces were not prepared for the press
by the author, and several of them are in an unfinished state.
His speeches and articles relative to the war and to various
        measures contain much valuable information respect-
political
ing the country at that period of its history, and the circum-
stances contributing to the first success of the Colonies in their

struggle for independence.   One of these was the ignorance
of the British Government in regard to the opinions of the
people and their determination to maintain their liberty at all
                                    "
hazards.                    The Controversy about Independ-
              In his article on
ence" the following passage occurs             :




  " The conduct of the British
                               Ministry during the whole of the contest, as hath
been often observed, has been such as to irritate the whole of this continent to the
highest degree and unite them together by the firm bond of necessity and common
interest.  In this respect they have served us in the most essential manner. I am
firmly persuaded, that had the wisest heads in America met together to contrive
what measures the ministry should follow to strengthen the American opposition
and to defeat their own designs, they could not have fallen upon a plan so effectual
as that which has been steadily pursued.   One instance I cannot help mentioning,
because it was both of more importance and less to be expected than any other.
When a majority of the New York Assembly, to their eternal infamy, attempted to
break the union of the colonies, by refusing to approve the proceedings of Congress
and applying to Parliament by separate petition, because they presumed to make
mention of the principal grievance of taxation, it was treated with ineffable con-
tempt.  I desire that it may be observed that all those who are called the friends

of America in Parliament pleaded strongly for receiving the New York petition      :




which plainly showed that neither one nor the other understood the state of affairs
in America.     Had the ministry been prudent, or the opposition successful, we
had been ruined ; but with transport did every friend to American liberty hear
that these traitors to the common cause had met with the reception which they
deserved."
           MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITI1ERSPOON.                                   409
  "              is   more manifest than that the people of Great Britain, and even the
      Nothing
king and the ministry, have been hitherto exceedingly ignorant of the state of
things in America.  For this reason, their measures have been ridiculous in the
highest degree, and the issue disgraceful."


  No one reading the above passage will question the Doctor's
ardent devotion to the cause of American liberty.
   Of the four octavo volumes issued by Woodward, the first
tivo contain the funeral                discourse, with a short sketch of Dr.
Witherspoon's life, by the Rev. Dr. John Rodgers, of New
York, preached at the request of the College, his essay on Jus-
tification, his treatise on Regeneration, and forty-seven sermons
on various subjects.               The third contains " An Inquiry into the
Scripture Meaning of Charity," "A Letter respecting Play-
Actors," "Ecclesiastical Characteristics," "A Serious Apology
                                         "
for the Ecclesiastical Characteristics,"   The History of a Cor-
                                                  "
poration of Servants," a satire,     Lectures on Moral Philos-
            "                          "
ophy,"               on
                 Lectures Eloquence,"    Letters on Education,"
"                     "                        "
  Essay  on  Money,"    Letters on Marriage,"    Pastoral Letter,"

prepared   for the Synod    of  New   York  and   Philadelphia at
                                                 "
their sessions in May, 1775, and a burlesque       Recantation of
Benjamin Towne, Printer and Publisher of the Pennsylvania
Evening Post, of Philadelphia."
  The fourth volume is of a more miscellaneous character than
any of the others, and comprises his lectures on Divinity, his
defence before the Synod of Glasgow, a number of essays under
                       "
the title of               The Druid,"        a name, as he    tells   us in the   first

number, suggested by the place of his residence; the last three
numbers being devoted to the notice and correction of American-
                          "                                 "
isms, cant phrases, etc.,   Reflections on Public Affairs,"   On
                                        "
the Controversy about Independence," Thoughts on American
          "
Liberty,"   Memorial and Manifesto of the United States," ad-
dressed to the mediating powers in the conferences for peace,
"The Georgia                 Constitution,"      "The Federal City," "Sundry
Speeches         in        Congress,"
                                         "
                                             A Description of the State of New
Jersey," "An Address to the Inhabitants of Jamaica and other
West India Islands in Behalf of the College of New Jersey," and
a few other papers of more or less importance.
      Of all his writings, the two most likely to be reprinted from
       VOL. i.        27
         HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.
                       "                                "
time to time are his  Essay on Justification" and his Practical
Treatise on Regeneration," but his entire works are a valuable
addition to any library, private or public.   His theology was
that of the Westminster divines, as set forth in the Confession
of Faith and in the Catechisms of the Presbyterian Churches
of Scotland and of the United States.       We are informed by
the editor of this edition of his works that Dr. Witherspoon
did not intend his lectures on Moral Philosophy for publication,
and that he viewed them as nothing more than a syllabus or
compend upon which he might enlarge before a class. In this
manner they were used by Dr. Green himself during the ten
years that he was President of the College. The lectures, as
published, undoubtedly contain much valuable information re-
specting the various opinions entertained by preceding writers
on the subjects which he handles, and also just comments on
the views taken     by them, rather than a precise and sharply-
defined exposition of his own views.
   From a letter of his, of the date of March 20, 1780, to a
Glasgow friend and correspondent, it appears that his health
after his removal to America had been good, with the exception
of a succession of fits, thought by his physician to be of an

apoplectic kind. From these, however, he recovered, and at the
date of his letter he had    much improved in health since these
comparatively recent attacks.     It has been supposed that these

fits   may in a measure be traced to a shock given to his nervous
system while he was yet a young minister residing at Beith,
in consequence of having been taken a prisoner by the High-

landers in the service of the Pretender after the battle of Falkirk,

January 17, 1746, and kept in close confinement by them for a
fortnight: he being at that time in a feeble state of health from
over- much study.   Not apprehending any danger, he had gone
to be merely  a spectator of the expected conflict.
   A  short time before writing the letter above mentioned, he

gave up his house at the College to his son-in-law, the Rev.
Dr. Smith, the Professor of Moral Philosophy, and retired to
his house and farm, about a mile, or a little more, from the Col-

lege.  At this rural retreat, named by him Tusculum, he resided
        MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.                   ^ IX

fifteen years, devoting his leisure hours to the
                                                 improvement of
his health and his farm.
  His duties   at the College,       however, continued to demand
much of his time and attention nor did he remit in his devotion
                                 ;



to the affairs of the College even after he lost his sight, which

happened a few years before his decease. He employed gen-
erally one of the students to read to      him and to act the part
of an amanuensis in conducting his correspondence.    He also
continued to preach, having a sermon read to him, which with-
out any further aid he was able to pronounce on any given
occasion,   the psalms and hymns and passages being repeated
from memory.
  It is probable that his farming was not a success, and added

but little, if anything, to his income. And it is said that certain
speculations into which he was induced to enter for the pur-
chase of lands in the newly-formed State of Vermont involved
him in pecuniary embarrassments, which became a source of
trouble and anxiety.    He was drawn into this adventure, as
appears from one of his letters, chiefly from a hope that he
would have it in his power to render a service to such of his
fellow-Scotchmen as might emigrate to America, by securing
for them an opportunity to buy good land, contiguous to the
best markets, upon the most favorable terms.       For his share in
this undertaking he was sharply attacked in an article published
in a Scotch paper, and was charged with a want of proper re-

gard to the interests of his native country. Although he suc-
cessfully repelled the charge brought against him, it would have
been better had no occasion been furnished for the bringing of
it. Ministers had better remain poor than engage in money-
making schemes, failure in which is sure to bring more or less
reproach, and success no honor.
  Dr. Witherspoon was noted for his social qualities. And
although he never forgot what was becoming a gentleman,
and especially a minister of the gospel, he made himself agree-
able to the young as well as to those of mature age, and his

company was eagerly sought by them, whether their object
was instruction or pleasure. He possessed a vein of abundant
humor, and his wit was of a special kind, of which some of his
            HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.

published works furnish ample proof, without any reference to
the traditions respecting it still prevalent His sermons, it is
believed, show  no trace of it.


    Many other matters, which with great propriety might have
been introduced  in the foregoing sketch, were given in the

account of Dr. Witherspoon's administration. These, if not
wholly passed without notice, have been but little dwelt upon
in this sketch of the Doctor's life.
  The following remarks are copied from Dr. Rodgers's funeral
discourse:
    " Accustomed to order and
                                 regularity in business from his youth, he persevered
in his attention to them through his whole life.    And, I may add, there was nothing
in which his punctuality and exactness were more sacredly observed than in the devo-

tional exercises of the Christian life.    Besides the daily devotions of the closet and
the family, it was his stated practice to observe the last day of every year, with his

family, as a day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer ;
                                                       and it was also his practice to set
apart days  for secret fasting and  prayer, as occasion suggested.    Bodily infirmities
began at length to come upon him. For more than two years before his death
he was afflicted with loss of sight, which contributed to hasten the progress of his
other disorders.  These he bore with a patience and even with a cheerfulness rarely
to be met with in the most eminent for wisdom and piety.       Nor would his active
mind, and his desire of usefulness to the end, permit him, even in this situation, to
desist from the exercise of his ministry and his duties in the College, as far as his
health and strength would admit.          He was frequently led into the pulpit, both at
home and abroad, during his blindness, and always acquitted himself with more
than his usual solemnity and animation. And we all recollect the propriety and

dignity with which he presided at the last Commencement.
                                                            He was blest with
his reasoning powers to the very last.
    " At                                                                       and on the
           length he sunk under the accumulated pressure of his infirmities,
                                                         his age, he retired to his
1
 5th day of November, 1794, in the seventy-third year of
eternal rest, full of honor and full of days."


     The more immediate cause of his death was the dropsy.
     From the University of Aberdeen he received the degree of
Doctor in Divinity, and from Yale College the degree of Doctor
of Laws.
                           DR. WITHERSPOON'S FAMILY.

     When Dr. Witherspoon came to this country, his family con-
sisted of himself, his wife,              and   five   children, three sons          and
two daughters. His wife was Elizabeth Montgomery, daugh-
ter of Robert Montgomery, of Craighouse, Ayrshire, Scotland.
His three sons entered the College of New Jersey, and became
            MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN WITHERSPOON.

graduates of this institution. James, the eldest son, was an aide
to General Nash in the War of the Revolution, and was killed
at the battle of Germantown, Pennsylvania.                   John, the second
son, was a physician, and settled in the parish of St. Stephen,
South Carolina. He died in 1795. The third and youngest
son, David, settled in New-Berne, North Carolina, where he
practised law.  He married the widow of General Nash, and
he was the father of the Rev. Dr. John R. Witherspoon, the
Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church
in 1836.
  The eldest daughter, Ann, became the wife of the Rev. Dr.
S. S. Smith, Dr. Witherspoon's successor in the office of Presi-
dent of the College; and her sister, Frances, was married to Dr.
David Ramsay, a physician and a historian of much note, whose
residence was in Charleston, South Carolina.  Dr. Ramsay was
a member of the National Congress, and for one year he was
the President of that body.
  Mrs. Witherspoon died in 1789, and about a year and a half
after her death Dr. Witherspoon married                  Mrs. Dill, the widow
of Dr. Dill, a physician of Philadelphia, and a step-daughter of
the Rev. William Marshall, a minister of the Associate Church.
By this marriage he had two daughters, of whom one died in
infancy the other, Mary Ann, was married to the Rev. Dr.
            ;




James S. Woods, who for many years was the faithful and
honored pastor of the Presbyterian church at Lewistown, Penn-
sylvania,
                                      EPITAPH.

  By order of the Trustees of the College, a slab of marble,
with the following inscription, was placed on Dr. Witherspoon's
grave   :



                                  Reliquiae Mortals
                          Johannis Witherspoon, D.D., LL.D.
                Collegii Neo-Qesariensis Prsesidis, plurimum venerandi,
                                   sub hoc marmore
                                     inhumantur.
                        Natus parochio Yesternensi Scotorum,
                         Nonis Februarii, MDCCXXII. V. S.
                  Literis humanioribus in Universitate Edinburgensi
                                       imbutus.
                    Sacris ordinibus initiatus, Anno MDCCXLIII.
414   HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY,

                              Munus pastorale
                  per viginti quinque annos perfunctus est,
                 primo apud Beith, delude apud Paisley.
        Praeses designatus Aulae Nassovicae, Anno         MDCCLXVII.
             in   Americam migravit, Anno MDCCLXVIII.
                               Idibus Sextilis.
                       Maxima expectatione Omnium,
                         Munus praesidiale suscepit.
                        Vir eximia pietate ac virtute
                     Omnibus dotibus animi praeellens
                  doctrina, atque optimarum artium studiis,
                              penitus eruditus,
                        Concionator gravis, solemnis.
                            Orationes ejus sacrae
                         praeceptis et institutis vitae
                               praestantissimis,
              necnon expositionibus sacrosanctae scripturae
                                   dilucidis
                                sunt repletae.
              In sermone familiari comis, lepidus, blandus,
                         rerum ecclesiae forensium
                                 peritissimus.
                             Summa prudentia,
                  et in regenda, et instituenda juventute,

                                  praeditus.
                  Existimationem collegii apud peregrinos
                                    auxit   :




                bonasque literas in eo multum provexit.
            Inter lumina clarissima, et doctrinae et ecclesise,
                                  diu luxit.
            Tandem, veneratus, dilectus, lugendus omnibus,
                 animam efflavit, XVI. Kal. Decem.
                    Anno Salutis Mundi, MDCCXCIV.
                           aetatis suae LXXIII.




                             END OF VOL. I.
BINDING SECT. JAN 2 7




LD        Maclean, John
4608         History of the College of
Ml6       New Jersey
v.l




           PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE
       CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET


        UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY
