DOCUMENT_ID: en-org-biblical-generation
TITLE (as printed): London Seminary: a biblical generation
DATE: 1 August 2017
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://www.e-n.org.uk/uk-news/2017-08-london-seminary-a-biblical-generation/
EDITION: Evangelicals Now, by Gary Brady, retrieved 2026-09-07
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (HTML text extracted with BeautifulSoup from a page downloaded by curl; not re-OCR'd)
TOTAL PAGES: 1 (single web page)
WORD COUNT: 1183
RIGHTS: Evangelicals Now news article; treat as SECONDARY.

[[p. 1]]

        London Seminary: a biblical generation | Evangelicals Now
    
en
 evangelicals 
now
Home
UK & Ireland
World
Comment
Features
People
Reviews
Your Views
Login
Subscribe
In Depth
Jobs
Find a Church
About us
Donate
The Newspaper
Advertise in en
Adverts in print
Students
London Seminary: a biblical generation
Gary Brady
  |  
                        
                        UK & Ireland
                        
                        
Date posted:
  1 Aug 2017
                        
                    Share
Add
    
   
                    
Dr Al Mohler of Southern Baptist Theological Seminary speaking at London Seminary
London Seminary, LTS as it was called then, was a very small affair when it began in 1977, the year of Ford Fiestas, 
Abigail’s
 
Party 
and the Yorkshire Ripper. 
The Seminary is not large now, but in those 40 years – a whole generation in biblical terms – over 400 men have been trained for pastoral and preaching ministry, the bulk of whom are still ministering today. They work all over the country, from Inverness and Dundee down to Eastbourne and Bournemouth, from Aberystwyth across to East Anglia, in the capital itself and in nations all over the world. More than that, other ventures, such as the John Owen Centre and the newly announced Flourish course for women, have been introduced to support and strengthen the work.
Philip Eveson
It was appropriate that at the Seminary’s annual service on the last Saturday in June, the Chairman should be Philip Eveson, the second of three Principals who have led the work. He took the opportunity to remind us of the work’s beginnings all those years ago. He was also able to represent the Board in giving a big thank you to our Secretary for 39 of those last 40 years, Brian Stevens, as well as publicly thanking Robert and Sarah Strivens, with the help of Board Chairman Spencer Cunnah, on behalf of the Seminary.
The first Principal was Hywel Jones and the third Robert Strivens, who gave this year’s report, his last in that capacity. We also heard from the Principal Elect, Bill James, who will begin as the fourth Principal, God willing, in January 2018. He read Psalm 96 and led us in prayer.
Leaving students
We also heard from six leaving students, carefully shepherded by Vice-Principal David Green – Chris Durrant, John Kerr, Philip Lievesley, Pedro Real, Manuel Redondo and Chris Statter. Five of these men are about to begin ministry – in Bournemouth, Gloucester, Frinton-on-Sea, Brazil and Salford. Manuel hopes to do further study before returning to Spain. It was also good to hear that third-year students Keith Holmes and Chris Roberts are already settling into ministry in London, in Covent Garden and Ealing.
Albert Mohler
It was a great opportunity to have Dr Albert Mohler, Principal of The Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, as the visiting preacher. The SBTS has over 5,000 students of different sorts at present, but there was no hint of condescension from Dr Mohler, quite the opposite, recognising the different circumstances under which we labour.
The students were directed, in our hearing, to John 15.18-27 where Christ the General warns his untried soldiers of what is ahead. Under the heading ‘What do you expect?’, he warned of what lies ahead and gave three reasons from the text as to why to continue. 
Firstly
, because we belong to Christ; 
secondly
, because we have the Holy Spirit alongside us and 
thirdly, 
because we have Christ praying for us, Christ who has overcome the world.
Good numbers
There appeared to be more present at the service this time than in recent years. Several former students had taken the opportunity to travel back to London and their presence was appreciated. Tea and discussion on the lawn is a tradition on these occasions and that was kept despite periodic attempts by the overcast skies to send down rain.
Being present on these annual occasions is always a joy. Not only is there the opportunity to meet up with friends and fellow workers, but there is always the reminder that by the grace of God the kingdom is inching forward in this place and that.
Luther and ‘mouth houses’
Both the principal and Dr Mohler referred to Luther and his 95 Theses, this being the 500th anniversary of the bold act of the great Reformer. Dr Mohler, who has had opportunity to travel to Germany this year, suggested to us that Luther got to the five 
solas 
of the Reformation bit by bit, not all at once. Perhaps none of them were fully in place in Luther’s mind in 1517. But the Lord led him along step by step, the Reformation came to be and ‘mouth houses’ (a term apparently coined by Luther in Germany and taken up in English by Puritans and others in America to emphasise that God’s Word and his salvation is an acoustical affair) began to spring up in every place. At one time Luther’s students rather lost the plot when they thought icon-oclasm was the answer, but he recalled them to the work of getting the Word out of their mouths into people’s ears, where the Holy Spirit could teach it to their hearts.
That same need exists today and the leaving students were encouraged to take note and act. We pray that the Seminary will take note too and continue to prepare men for the ‘mouth houses’ of England and beyond.
Would you like to read on?
Get three free articles a month when you create an account
Or if you already have an account, 
log in here
First Name
Last Name
Email
Message
Please do not click
First name
Last name
Email
Password
Confirm password
We'll use your email address to send you the latest articles, news and ministry updates. You can unsubscribe at any time.
 
Yes, I'd also like
 to receive occasional updates about 
en
 subscription offers, events, selected messages from Christian partners and advertisers, and opportunities to support 
en
's work financially.
            
 
Register
				Or get 
unlimited access
 by becoming a 
subscriber
Have an access code? 
click here
  |  Click 
here
 to find out how we take care of your personal data.
                    Share
                    
< Previous article
|
UK & Ireland
|
Next article >
Read more articles by Gary Brady >>
You may also be interested in...
Reviews
Valuable­ compendium
A collection of 36 short articles that originally appeared in The Reformation Heritage KJV Study Bible, this book was …
Reviews
Conscience stricken?
It can be read in no time, but this book’s ﬁve chapters are crammed with good things. It looks …
Thrown out of the church
This year sees the 350th anniversary of the Great Ejection.
In 1662 about 2,000 ministers and others in the …
Need to advertise?
We can help you reach Christians across the country
Find out more
Looking for a job?
Browse all our current job adverts
Search
Useful links
About us
Browse by topic
Give to support en
The Newspaper
Jobs
Keep in touch
Contact us
Submit an article
Advertise with us
Subscribe
Subscribe today
Give a subscription
Get free articles
Login
Important info.
Terms & conditions
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Cookie preferences
Registered Charity No. 296794.
 All content Evangelicals Now
