DOCUMENT_ID: eusebeia-powell-2007
TITLE (as printed): Dr. D. Martyn Lloyd-Jones (1899-1981): A Personal Appreciation (parts 1 and 2)
DATE: Spring 2007 (Eusebeia journal reprint; originally published in The Gospel Witness, vol. 60 nos. 2 and 3, 9 and 23 April 1981)
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://biblicalstudies.org.uk/pdf/eusebeia/07_015.pdf
EDITION: PDF hosted by biblicalstudies.org.uk / Theology on the Web ("supplied for free educational purposes"), retrieved 2026-09-07
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (born-digital text layer extracted via pdftotext -layout; not re-OCR'd by this session)
TOTAL PAGES: 23 (journal pages 15-37, "eusebeia > spring 2007" running head)
WORD COUNT: 9455
AUTHOR: Rev. Leigh B. Powell, pastor, Covenant Baptist Church, Toronto (a personal memoir/appreciation by someone who attended Westminster Chapel; SECONDARY narrative throughout, but the article itself quotes Lloyd-Jones's own published words at second hand, with page-cited footnotes to Lloyd-Jones's own works (Preaching and Preachers; Knowing the Times; The Puritans; etc.) and to Iain Murray's biography. Passages the article itself places in quotation marks and footnotes to a Lloyd-Jones primary work are treated in this dossier as PRIMARY-quoted-at-second-hand, cited [PRIMARY (at second hand via Powell 2007): ...]; the article's own narrative sentences are cited [SECONDARY: eusebeia-powell-2007].
RIGHTS: This 2007 journal article is presumably still in copyright (author/journal); short quotation only. The Lloyd-Jones passages it quotes are themselves separately copyrighted (Lloyd-Jones d. 1981). Flag any use [RIGHTS: copyrighted, short quotation only].

This document was supplied for free educational purposes.
Unless it is in the public domain, it may not be sold for profit
or hosted on a webserver without the permission of the
copyright holder.

If you find it of help to you and would like to support the
ministry of Theology on the Web, please consider using the
links below:



                               https://www.buymeacoffee.com/theology




                               https://patreon.com/theologyontheweb



 PayPal                        https://paypal.me/robbradshaw


          A table of contents for Eusebeia can be found here:

    htps://biblicalstudies.org.uk/ar�cles_eusebeia.php
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones
(1899-1981):
a personal appreciation
leigh b. powell

part 1 1

                    n St. David’s Day, Sunday morning, March 1, 1981 as



O                   Big Ben chimed 7:30 in the City of Westminster,
                    London, Dr. D. Martyn Lloyd-Jones, the minister
                    of Westminster Chapel for thirty years, went to be
                    with his Lord. His death marked the end of an era.
Under God, “the Doctor,” as he was affectionately known, had become
the catalyst that released again the mighty forces of Reformation truth
in Great Britain.
   Dr. Lloyd-Jones was always extremely reluctant to reveal details of his
personal life to people. Not one ray of the glory of his Saviour must be
bent to shine upon himself.2 This writer knows little of his early life and
upbringing in his native South Wales. At the age of ten, he was thrown
through the window of his burning home and was caught by some men
in the street below. How he was converted to the Lord, and at what time
in his life I do not know. In his Lectures given at Westminster
Theological Seminary, Philadelphia, U.S.A. in the Spring of 1969, he
mentioned that prior to his entrance into church membership he had
never heard a truly convincing evangelistic sermon. “I was received into
the church because I could give the right answers to various set questions;
but I was never questioned in an experimental sense.”3
[[p. 15]]
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

medical training
As a medical doctor — M.D., M.R.C.P. — Lloyd-Jones had shown out-
standing ability and promise. He appeared to be on the edge of a dis-
tinguished medical career. He served as First Assistant Physician to
Lord Horder (the Physician to Queen Mary, King George V and
Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother) at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital,
London. On January 8, 1927 he was married in London to another
practitioner of medicine Dr. Bethan Phillips. Undoubtedly this
medical training gave a unique cast to his entire ministry. However, like
many gifted preachers and pastors before him, the Doctor never took any
formal theological training. Nevertheless, his later contributions to the
Christian Medical Fellowship, a section of the Graduate Fellowship of
Inter-Varsity, demonstrated his lifelong concern to supply biblical medicine
for the salvation needs of man. In Conversions: Psychological and Spiritual
(1959), he drew on his medical knowledge to refute a behaviouristic
“explanation” of Christian conversion by the British psychiatrist,
Dr. William Sargent. In particular his insight into the complex interaction
at work in the mental, physical and spiritual make-up of man enabled
him to give a most helpful diagnosis and pastoral remedy for spiritual
depression in the sermons later published as Spiritual Depression: Its Causes
and Cure (1965).

early ministry: south wales
He and his wife went from London to serve the Lord in Port Talbot,
South Wales — a sprawling industrial dockland area suffering the effects
of high unemployment. Inducted as minister of The Forward Movement
Church, Port Talbot on February 3, 1927, Dr. Lloyd-Jones heralded the
Pauline emphasis of his ministry in the first sermon preached to his
people: “For I determined not to know anything among you, save Jesus
Christ, and Him crucified” (1 Corinthians 2:2). The Welsh steel workers,
miners and dockers quickly recognized that God had sent them another
in the mighty tradition of Welsh Calvinistic Methodists such as Daniel
Rowland and Howell Harris — preachers who set men on fire for God.
After eleven and a half years under his ministry, the 93 original
members had so set Port Talbot ablaze with the gospel that some 530 souls
were in membership when Dr. and Mrs. Lloyd-Jones left in 1938.

call to westminster chapel
In September, 1938, Neville Chamberlain, the British Prime Minister,

[[p. 16]]
                       dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

stepped off his plane from his ignominious talks in Munich with
Hitler, clutching his worthless scrap of paper, and exultantly cried “I
believe it is peace for our time.” In that same month a call came from
Dr. G. Campbell Morgan, the minister of Westminster Chapel in the
historic City of Westminster, to Dr. Lloyd-Jones: “Why not come and
join me? We will share the ministry.”4 In this seemingly casual way,
there began a London ministry which really brought the permanent
peace of the gospel to countless men, women and children who lived
in the London Blitz. Dr. Lloyd-Jones confidently assured Dr. Morgan,
“this Chapel will not be bombed.”5 Though the Chapel lost half its
roof during a German bomb attack in 1944, the building stood intact
at the end of the war.
   The ministries of the two men were very dissimilar. Dr. Lloyd-Jones
joined Campbell Morgan as Associate Minister in 1938, and succeeded
him as the Minister of Westminster Chapel in 1943. Dr. Campbell
Morgan was a gifted expositor whose strength lay in his masterly
panoramic grasp of whole sweeps of Scripture. One author has said
that “the singular glory of Dr. Morgan’s work is its non-theological
nature in the systematic sense.” Overall, Morgan’s sermons reflect an
Arminian, pre-millennial and a dispensational theology. Morgan
preached mainly in the Gospels (the Corinthians and Hebrews exposi-
tions were the exceptions in his N.T. expositions). In marked contrast,
Lloyd-Jones’ preaching, while it kept closely to a precise exposition of
the text, continually tuned in to the great Reformed systematic theology
of Luther and especially that of Calvin and his Puritan successors. Few
of us currently enjoying the fruits of this revival of Reformation truth
can really appreciate the debt we owe to this man. He unswervingly
proclaimed the sovereign grace of a warm and thrilling Calvinism at a
time when many either believed or wished that Calvinism were dead.
Under his ministry, Westminster Chapel became a nuclear power sta-
tion from which radiated the divine energy of Pauline theology. The
effect of his consistent, heart-warming and incisive exposition of the
Word of God was to restore men’s faith in the all-sufficiency of Holy
Scripture. It was not an academic Calvinism that had this catalytic
effect. Once, speaking of the American Puritan preacher, Jonathan
Edwards, the chief influence on his own ministerial life, the Doctor
aptly characterized for us the form his own ministry took. “You must
have the theology,” he said, “but it must be theology on fire. There
must be warmth as well as light.”6
[[p. 17]]
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

preaching: the fire in his bones
We must turn now to what is absolutely central to a true understanding
of the life and ministry of Dr. Lloyd-Jones — his preaching. The elec-
trifying stimulus for his preaching was provided by Jonathan Edwards.
Finding one day in 1929 the two volumes of Edwards’ Complete Works in
John Evans’ Cardiff bookshop made him feel, he said, “like the man in
our Lord’s parable who found a pearl of great price. Their influence
upon me I cannot put into words.”7 Regretfully, he tells us, “I have to
put him (Edwards) ahead of Daniel Rowlands and George Whitefield.
Indeed I am tempted, perhaps foolishly, to compare the Puritans to
the Alps, Luther and Calvin to the Himalayas, and Jonathan Edwards
to Mount Everest!”8
   Dr. Lloyd-Jones clearly distinguished preaching from lecturing.
“The first and primary object of preaching is not only to give informa-
tion. It is, as Edwards says, to produce an impression. It is the impres-
sion at the time that matters, even more than what you can remember
subsequently.” The academic accumulation of biblical knowledge was
not the chief benefit to one listening to preaching. “The business of
preaching is to make such knowledge live.”9 If one were simply seeking
information, one could always read books and get the information
from them. Anything that enabled men to achieve the slightest degree
of detachment from the preaching must go. His strong opposition to
note-taking while he was preaching was due to this belief that nothing
must come between the hearer and the kindling lightning flashes from
the Holy Spirit, preacher, listener. This meant that you could never
replace the immediacy of preaching with the detached act of reading
sermons in cold print. He quotes approvingly Whitefield’s reply to
someone who asked permission to publish one of his sermons: “I have
no objection if you will print the lightning, thunder and rainbow with
it.”10 I remember one Sunday evening when the Doctor was preaching
to a packed congregation. To the amazement of all, two Jehovah’s
Witnesses, who had come into the Chapel, began to heckle him. He
continued preaching as if nothing had happened, and then, suddenly,
with his finger pointing directly at them, he let loose a piercing arrow
from the Scripture text he was preaching, saying, “And this applies to
you!” The two of them shrivelled up in their seats and not a murmur
was heard from them for the rest of the evening.
   The convicting power of his ministry was so evident that many
Christians felt, almost presumptuously, that if you could only get

[[p. 18]]
                       dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

unbelievers in to hear the Gospel they would certainly be converted!
There was never any of that hesitating reluctance to bring unbelievers,
out of fear that the preacher might be riding one of his hobby horses,
or speaking speculatively on some prophecy. My own experience must
have been similar to that of many others. My brother Christopher had
“casually” invited me a meeting one Friday night after I had spent the
day purchasing books in London for the library of Maidstone College
of Art where I was the Librarian. Much to my annoyance, I found
myself with Christopher at 6:25 p.m. outside Westminster Chapel.
Since I had not enquired what the meeting was, I consoled myself with
the thought that I had endured the compulsory church parades in the
British Army and the vague moralistic lectures of the chaplains I had
encountered — one hour more could be endured! What did amaze me,
as I went up the steps into the Chapel, was the sight of over 1,000 peo-
ple, many of whom had come straight from work, all seated, waiting
expectantly to hear the Word of God. A diminutive, compact figure,
wearing a black Geneva gown, entered the pulpit. Although I now
remember nothing of the exposition of Romans 7 that followed, one
thing I shall never forget. This man not only believed what he
preached, but he spoke with such an authority that I knew unmistak-
ably that what I had heard before from the liberal preachers in the
Methodist Church of my childhood was not the Truth. Paul’s words in
1 Corinthians 14:24-25, about the unbeliever’s experience on coming
into the Church were a living reality here: “He is convinced of all, he
is judged of all; and thus are the secrets of his heart made manifest; and
so falling down on his face he will worship God, and report that God
is in you of a truth.”
    In view of the church-going habits of people in England, the Doctor
deliberately preached evangelistic sermons each Sunday evening. I have
often wished that these sermons were available to the general public.
Very often his introduction would seize upon some topic of current
debate, for example, Bishop Robinson’s Honest to God attack on super-
natural Christianity. The listener would be hooked into the debate by
a series of questions to which he would soon find himself desiring
answers. These were immediately supplied as the hearer was drawn
directly into the exposition of the Scripture passage. On one occasion,
the Doctor was preaching in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. A student-friend
of mine who had a Ph.D. in mathematics from Temple University,
Philadelphia, sat tensely on the edge of his seat, following as the
[[p. 19]]
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

preacher ascended the ladder of Paul’s logic in Romans. This unemo-
tional mathematician, stirred to the depths by the preaching which was
climaxed and driven home by the singing of the final hymn, tore out the
page from the hymnbook (inserting a $5 bill to pay for a new one!) and
strode out into the night. Afterwards he told me that he had always
thought the gospel was like that, but that he had never heard it preached
in that way before. “As he was preaching,” he told me, “he said, ‘Ah, yes,
but — and then he answered the but, until I had no buts left.”
    A feature of his preaching, especially his evangelistic preaching, was
his custom of presenting both the positive and negative implications of
a text. You could very soon tell on which side of the fence you stood —
believer or unbeliever — as the characteristics of each were delineated.
Once, the Doctor had given the typical unbeliever’s arguments for
unbelief, and then, from Scripture, had proceeded to demolish them.
My younger brother Eddie, then unconverted, listed all of those
negative arguments for unbelief on a sheet of paper, and tucked it into
the side of my mother’s dressing table mirror, clearly indicating —
“that’s what I believe!” The bold directness of his preaching was one of
the first things that hit you. Quotations from other men’s works rarely
appeared in his sermons because he believed that these made preaching
too literary. Preaching, for him, was not an unreal theatrical performance
that could be viewed, tasted and appreciated from the vantage point of
a spectator. As you listened to his exposure of the pervasive depravity of
human nature there would flash into your soul one of his laser-like
thrusts that penetrated into the very depths of your being. “One sinner
smashes every human philosophy” was one such thrust. In one sentence,
he reveals the Achilles heel of all optimistic humanistic philosophy
from Greek philosophy to the nihilistic philosophies of our day.
    His preaching brought men face to face with the glory of God. You
left with your heart uplifted in adoration and praise. He exhorted wor-
shippers, “Let us not stop at any benefit we may have had, and not even
with the highest experiences we may have enjoyed. Let us seek to know
more and more of the glory of God. That is what leads always to a true
experience. We need to know the majesty of God, the sovereignty of
God, and to feel a sense of awe and of wonder. Do we know this? Is
there in our churches a sense of wonder and amazement?”11 Such a
lifting up of the glory of Christ awoke the congregation to a keen
expectation of blessing whenever the gospel was preached. This sense
of expectation was so palpable on many of the occasions that I heard

[[p. 20]]
                       dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

him preach that one hardly dared to breathe for fear of missing a word.
Speaking in 1965 at the Centennial of Westminster Chapel, he said:
“We in our measure know something of the feeling of the Psalmist
when he was prevented from going to the house of God! — Oh, how his
soul longed to be there with the people of God! Why? Well, ‘Grace and
Glory’ had been manifested there, and he wanted to be with them.
That is the wonderful thing about meeting in a place like this! You
never know when God is going to be here in some unusual power. That
is why I have never understood Christian people who think that they
can afford to miss a single service. You may miss the greatest thing in
your whole life. You never know.”12 His heart passionately sought after
this manifestation of the glory of God. He longed to see the fire
descend upon the altar of his preaching — that heavenly unction that
convinces all men that God is in the mist of His people — and that to
bless. At times — often toward the end of a sermon, he seemed to be
hovering, waiting for something. Sometimes the wind of the Spirit
would come sweep us and him aloft, and we would mount with wings
like eagles into the awesome and felt presence of God.
   Lloyd-Jones’ method of preaching was the apostolic one of exposi-
tion. Besides his Friday night Romans series (Romans 1:1 — Romans
14:17) which he delivered from October 1955 to March 1968, he
expounded to my knowledge, Habakkuk, Psalm 73, the Sermon on the
Mount, Ephesians, the majority of Philippians and 2 Peter. For him,
expository preaching was not just an excuse for presenting a series of
topical sermons as he proceeded to go through a book. He aimed at
bringing out the particularity of each text he expounded, thus ensuring
that the hearer was ever refreshed as each new facet of Scripture truth
emerged. He once said that the best way to expound the Scriptures was
to keep on asking questions. He had that rare gift of asking the right
questions. In typical Puritan fashion, however, the Doctor was never
content with simply explaining Scripture. His applications covered a
multitude of needs. Many, many times, people went to the service with a
particular problem, only to have the solution supplied in the preaching.
For him, preaching, not counselling was the heart of the ministry.
“The preacher does not need to know these particular detailed facts
about the people because he knows that there is this common general
need… He knows that all the people in front of him are suffering from
the same disease which is sin — every one of them.”13 He took particular
delight in the fact that children could understand his preaching. He
[[p. 21]]
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

did not believer in separate “Junior Churches” for children. His win-
some way with children on the personal level was beautifully demon-
strated one day when he passed my brother Eddie who was sitting by
the winding staircase that led to the prayer meeting room. “Who was
‘sitting at the receipt of custom’?” he asked him. On receiving the correct
answer, “Matthew, Sir,” he rewarded him with half a crown.

the pastor’s heart
Our reference to the centrality of preaching in his ministry should not
lead the reader to deduce that the pastoral side of his ministry was lack-
ing. Many have glibly repeated the criticism that Westminster Chapel
under his ministry was just a preaching centre. That was really very far
from the truth. In the pulpit announcements, and in the cards placed
in each pew, the invitation was extended: “Dr. Lloyd-Jones will be glad
to see any members of the congregation and visitors at the close of
Public Worship in the Minister’s Vestry.” After each of the services on
Friday night and on Sunday, his waiting room resembled the full wait-
ing room of a medical clinic, as men and women from all walks of life,
and in various spiritual conditions, waited to pour out their hearts to
him. Who can forget the contrast? There in the pulpit he looked like
a flaming Old Testament prophet. Here in his vestry, it was like draw-
ing up a chair to a warm fireside. His face wreathed in a smile of
welcome, the Doctor would put you at your ease, and then would apply
the balm of Gilead. His parting prayer left you with the consciousness
of being seated in the heavenlies with Christ. Beyond his vestry, his
pastoral care was extended by means of a worldwide ministry by corre-
spondence. Letters came to him from ministers seeking his counsel on
difficult pastoral problems. Others wrote seeking help to initiate
similar conferences to the annual Puritan (later Westminster)
Conferences.
   From Westminster, under his leadership, and that of his deacons,
there went out each Sunday, a host of young men to preach the gospel
in churches, missions and chapels in London and other parts of the
United Kingdom. The scriptural pattern of discerning gifts being
exercised by various individuals in the local church was followed. The
young men were encouraged to read the Scriptures and lead in prayer
at the two Sunday prayer meetings before the public worship. The
Doctor was usually present at the evening prayer meeting. He also met
for prayer before the services with his deacons. I recall one of them

[[p. 22]]
                        dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

telling me of an American — John — who became an unofficial visitor
to these prayer meetings, too. The deacons raised their eyebrows a
little at this, but did nothing to prevent him. “We all felt rebuked at the
Doctor’s response,” my deacon friend told me, “when one day John
announced — ‘This is my last Sunday at the Chapel. I am going back to
the States to do Christian broadcasting’.” The Doctor looked up and
said quietly, “We’ll miss you John. May God bless you.”

fellowship at the chapel
Westminster Chapel is situated in one of those places that most modern
church planners would deprecate. It is located in the middle of
government and commercial office buildings on Buckingham Gate.
On the other side of the street are the walls of Wellington Barracks. A
short walk away is Buckingham Palace, the home of the British
Monarchy. Close by on the Thames Embankment are the Houses of
Parliament. Inevitably, the vast majority of the congregation must
come from areas quite distant from the Chapel. The efforts to promote
a lively fellowship with such unpromising surroundings ought to be
noted. Many members and friends brought food up to the Chapel so
as to spend the whole Sunday there. So long as the Doctor didn’t go too
far beyond his normal preaching time, their roast potatoes in the
Chapel ovens were safe! In good weather, some would have picnic
lunches in nearby St. James Park, while discussing the morning sermon.
Sunday afternoons would be filled with the study of God’s Word. At
3 p.m. the Church would gather in the School Halls for the Children’s
Sunday School, the Young People’s Bible Class, and the Women’s
Bible Class led by Mrs. Lloyd-Jones. There was also Bible Study with
discussion in the Institute Hall, often led by the Associate Minister.
Once a month this class would vote on a topic they would like to
examine, for example, capital punishment. Whoever spoke was
required to justify his or her points from Scripture. The biblical
fellowship nurtured at the Chapel generated a whole host of Bible
Studies in the homes of Westminster Chapelians. The annual “At
Home” gatherings at the Chapel enabled the Doctor and his wife and
two daughters, Elizabeth and Ann, to have fellowship with the members
of the church, associate members, and the “Friends of Westminster
Chapel.” These occurred in September, after their vacations. The
Doctor’s reports of the “vacations” were invariably accounts of the pre-
vailing spiritual conditions and his own extensive preaching whether in
[[p. 23]]
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

rural England, Greece, the U.S.A. and Canada, or some other country!
Mrs. Lloyd-Jones’ warm and unobtrusive support of the Doctor’s min-
istry encouraged all that knew her. Her shared interest with the Doctor
in the promotion of true biblical fellowship led her to translate from her
native Welsh, The Experience Meeting (1973) — an introduction to the Welsh
Societies of the Evangelical Awakening by the eighteenth century Welsh
hymn-writer and preacher, William Williams.

part 2 14

agencies for reformation
What were the agencies under God by which the Doctor and others
were stimulated and nourished in the theology of the Reformers and
the Puritans? He himself said that the foundational part was played by
the Evangelical Library. In 1939, Mr. Geoffrey Williams, the founder
of the Library (1931) was introduced to the Doctor, who immediately
grasped the significance of this treasure house of Reformation and
Puritan literature, and urged the removal of its 15 tons of books from
Beddington, Surrey to London. Doctor Lloyd-Jones writing to Mr.
Williams at the time, exulted, “Having spent some two and a half hours
inspecting the contents, I felt that I was in the precise position of the
Queen of Sheba on the occasion of her visit to Solomon.”15 His reading
of church history proved a great source of refreshment and encourage-
ment to him: “We have been called to live through this barren, arid era
in which we find ourselves. Well, the thing that keeps me going so often
is to look back and see these men who have gone before us, who lived
in days sometimes that were even worse, but God sustained them and
they were doing more than they knew.” He urged ministers and students
to read Christian biography to keep that necessary theological balance.
“I am sure that it will stimulate you, it will search you and humble you.”
Yet there was, as always, the essential caution: “We must therefore be
very careful not to follow slavishly anything that has been taught in the
past. We are as responsible to God as the Reformers were, and it is our
business to interpret Scripture, as much as it was their duty to do so.
We are not merely to be gramophone records of anyone who has lived
in the past however august he may have been.”16 How many mistakes in
our current Reformed and Evangelical controversies would have been
avoided, had this advice been heeded!
   The Banner of Truth formally came into existence in July 1957.

[[p. 24]]
                       dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

Already the issues of The Banner of Truth Magazine, from 1955 on, had pro-
voked widespread interest in the Reformed truth. The Doctor did all
he could to encourage this new agency for the spread of full-orbed and
evangelistic Calvinism. Westminster Chapel provided the Banner’s
first stockroom, until the Banner appropriately took up its quarters at
78B Chiltern Street, London — right underneath 78A, the home of
The Evangelical Library — the arsenal of the New Reformation with its
over 100,000 volumes of classic Reformed and Puritan literature. Dr.
Lloyd-Jones’ own magnum opus on Romans was published by the Banner.
He was also responsible for some of the introductions to volumes the
Banner published, and took every opportunity to whet the appetites of
all who would listen, to urge them to buy Banner books. Earlier in
1950 the Puritan Conference came into existence under the chair-
manship of Dr. Lloyd-Jones. There, papers on the Reformers, the
Puritans, and individuals involved in the Evangelical Awakening were
read and discussed. The quality of the debate at the Conference I
attended was superb. The Doctor proved a very firm Chairman who
very jealously guarded the time given over to the examination of the
practical and pastoral implications that arose form the papers. Woe
betide anyone who spoke without knowledge or premeditation! These
conferences, together with the Westminster Ministers Fraternal, which
met monthly under the guiding hand of Dr. Lloyd-Jones at
Westminster Chapel, did much to open men’s eyes and minds to the
dynamic power of Reformation truth.
   During the stormy years of World War II, the Doctor was elected
President of Inter-Varsity Fellowship (1940-1942) and again in 1951-
1952, and 1963-1964. At a time when Neo-Orthodoxy was making
inroads into Evangelicalism, he sounded a clear alarm, calling men
back to the inerrant Scriptures. In March 1958, the Inter-Varsity Press
published the first of their much-used pocket books. Authority by Dr.
Lloyd-Jones showed the Evangelical churches that Scripture alone was
the impregnable rock on which the Church could stand. His uncom-
promising stand for the truth was an inspiration to countless Christian
undergraduates who heard him speaking at the annual Inter-Varsity
conferences, the theological students’ conferences, and the university
missions. In evaluating the revival of Reformed truth, the Doctor
mentioned the role of Inter-Varsity Press in publishing Bible com-
mentaries and books on apologetics although, speaking in 1966, he
felt that the Inter-Varsity Press did not really address the theological
[[p. 25]]
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

situation as did the Evangelical Library through its making available the
outstanding Reformed and Evangelical classics.

theological education
The Doctor’s concern for university students and the theological
students in particular, arose from his realization that under God’s
hand the future direction of the Evangelical churches lay with these
men. On May 10, 1958 he preached to the students of the London
Bible College, London, England, at the opening of their new build-
ing, from the text, 2 Timothy 2:14-15. With his characteristic forth-
rightness, he quoted to them the warning in Dean Inge’s dictum “all
institutions tend to produce their opposite.” He would quote this
same warning, to yet another Evangelical institution, Inter-Varsity
Fellowship in 1969.17 On October 6, 1977, the Doctor addressed the
new London Theological Seminary which had come into being as a
result of the general dissatisfaction with the theological training avail-
able in the United Kingdom. Concern had been expressed about the
existence of ecumenical colleges where liberals and Roman Catholics
joined hands with “Evangelicals” to teach a common course. We who
live in Toronto know only too well that in the Toronto School of
Theology it is only too possible for a student at a Presbyterian-founded
college to receive lectures in Reformation history from a Jesuit priest!
The Doctor urged the congregation meeting in the Kensit Memorial
College (now combined with the London Theological Seminary) that

     the greatest need is not for teaching or lecturing; it is for
     preaching. What is preaching? Preaching is proclamation; it
     is the powerful presentation of the great message of the
     Bible. It includes evangelism of course. The preacher should
     be an evangelist, and should know how to bring people to
     conviction of sin and to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, as the
     Apostle Paul tells us he always did (Acts 20:21). He reminds
     the Ephesians that what he did amongst them was to tell them
     about “the repentance that is toward God and the faith that
     is toward the Lord Jesus Christ.” We need men who are able
     to do this with great power; but at the same time they must be
     able to build up the saints. I have often affirmed that the
     main function of the preacher is inspirational. It is not
     merely to dole out information, or lecture on the books of

[[p. 26]]
                       dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

    the Bible, or lecture on doctrine. He can tell people where
    they can read this. He does so up to a point of course, but his
    supreme task is to inspire the people. The people are reading
    the Bible, but they do not see much in it. The business of the
    preacher is to bring the Bible alive to them, to show them
    what is in it, to thrill them as they hear it from him, and then
    as they read it for themselves. He is to move people.18

what is the church?
Over his long life of forty-one years in the ministry, we may say that
the great issue which continually engaged his attention was the nature
of the Christian Church. The twentieth century will almost certainly
go down in history as the “Ecumenical Era” — the era in which
Liberals, Roman Catholics, and Evangelicals were supposed to unite
on the basis not of doctrine, but experience, into the one world-wide
Church. There was clearly a development in his attitude toward
Evangelicals who remained within the large denominations where heresy
was tolerated. He had seen the tragedy resulting from Evangelical minis-
ters drawing members, even converts to their churches only to leave them
to the “mercy” of ministers who occupied their pulpits when the
Evangelical ministers moved on to other churches.

    The idea that Evangelicals can infiltrate any established
    Church — above all, the Church of Rome — and reform it, and
    turn it into an Evangelical body, is midsummer madness. No
    institution has ever been truly reformed. The Puritan move-
    ment and 1662 bear eloquent testimony to that fact. This is
    the verdict of history. Neutrality at a time like this is cowardice,
    it is temporising where it is not sheer ignorance of the facts.
    What then are we as Evangelicals to do in this situation? I reply
    by saying that we must heed a great injunction in Revelation
    18:4: “Come out of her, my people!” “Come out of her my
    people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive
    not of her plagues.” Come out of it! But come together also;
    come into fellowship with all like-minded Christian people.
    Come into an association such as this British Evangelical
    Council that stands for the truth and against compromise,
    hesitations, neutrality, and everything that ministers to the
    success of the plans of Rome and the Ecumenical Movement.
[[p. 27]]
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

     Come out; come in! And then look back at old Martin
     Luther and say with him: “Here I stand, I can do no other;
     so help me God!” and trust in Him. What do numbers mat-
     ter, what do sarcasm and scorn and derision matter; what
     does it matter though we be despised and laughed at?19

This stirring appeal delivered at Westminster Chapel to over 2,500
people attending the British Evangelical Council Conference, on
November 1, 1967, was made to remind men of the valiant stand for
truth that Martin Luther had taken exactly 450 years previously, and to
urge them to do the same as the situation demanded.
   In 1965, the Doctor presented what I believe to be his most useful
and radical analysis of the church situation for Evangelicals today. I
personally met one Presbyterian minister who found his reading of this
seminal paper to be the decisive influence in constraining him to leave
his denomination after all attempts at reformation from within had
proved fruitless. The paper entitled Ecclesiola in Ecclesia (“little church in
the Church”) examined the idea that since one could never entirely
reform the Church, one should form a “little church in the Church”20
— a small nucleus of genuine Christians who would have a spiritual
influence on the nominal Christians. In a brief historical survey, the
Doctor showed that all but one of these attempts (the exception, he
noted, being an “inner mission” within the Lutheran Church of
Norway) had failed. As he pointed out, those Evangelicals who remain
within the denominations which tolerate error have historically done
so by majoring on the important matter of sound practical holiness
and spiritual experience, and by neglecting to engage in the vital battle
to maintain the fundamental doctrines of the Church by means of
church discipline. Many argue, he says, that they should “‘stay in’ in
order to infiltrate and influence in an evangelical direction — ‘in it to
win it’ as someone has put it.”21 One pertinent answer he gives to such
an optimistic view is that “we have evidence before our very eyes that
our staying amongst such people does not seem to be converting them
to our view but rather to a lowering of the spiritual temperature of
those who are staying amongst them and an increasing tendency to
doctrinal accommodation and compromise.”22 The frequent appeal
by Evangelicals to the argument of men like the saintly and robust
Anglican Evangelical of the nineteenth century — Bishop J.C. Ryle —
“Stay in the denomination until it throws out the ‘Articles’ (or

[[p. 28]]
                       dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

Confession of Faith)” — was met by the Doctor’s reminder that a
Confession that was not binding in any way was a worthless scrap of
paper in practice. Neville Chamberlain’s “peace” document commands
little respect from us today, because we know that the signatories to it
had no intention of obeying it. Thus one may have excellent statements
of faith, but unless there is a real intention to abide by them, they are
simply “museum pieces” reflecting the faith that was once believed.
Some Evangelicals did not agree with the Doctor’s analysis, and as a
result some painful breaks occurred. One of the casualties was the
Puritan and Reformed Studies Conference which lost Dr. J.I. Packer
and others. In April 1967, the Doctor, exemplifying his own teaching,
led Westminster Chapel out of the Congregational Union of England
and Wales to join the Fellowship of Independent Evangelical Churches.
    The relationships between Calvinists and Arminians were also
another area in which he sought to give leadership. He made it very
clear that as a Calvinist he did not dispute that a “man might be an
Arminian in his understanding of salvation and be a believer.” In his
view “there were some forms of co-operation possible between
Evangelicals who were divided on these doctrines.” However, he asked,
“Could it be right in principle for preachers and teachers of the Word
to be united at the Church level with those whose belief is
Arminian?”23 He was realistic in recognizing that in practice there is a
tremendous gulf between a “self-help” salvation and a salvation by
grace alone. What thrilled him above all in Calvinism was the stability
of God’s grace. “Calvinism leads to assurance, and assurance of neces-
sity leads to joy. You cannot be assured quietly and unmoved by the fact
that your sins are forgiven and that you are a child of God, and that you
are going to Heaven; it is impossible. Assurance must lead to joy. Not
only that; knowing this leads to prayer. God is my Father. I am adopt-
ed. I know Him. I have an entrance, and I want to go there. I want to
speak to Him and I want to know Him. This is true Calvinism.”24
    The function of the Church was very frequently misunderstood
according to the Doctor.

     There are so many people trying to diagnose the human
     situation; and they come to the conclusion that man is sick,
     man is the victim of circumstances… but I suggest that that is
     too superficial a diagnosis of the condition of man, and that
     man’s real trouble is that he is a rebel against God and con-
[[p. 29]]
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

     sequently under the wrath of God.… The primary task of the
     church is not to educate man, is not to heal him physically or
     psychologically. It is not to make him happy. I will go further;
     it is not even to make him good… It is rather to put man into
     the right relationship with God, to reconcile man to God.”25

As he looked at the contemporary Evangelical churches, the one thing
that disturbed him greatly was that she was frequently far too healthy,
too self-congratulatory and self-satisfied.

     When did you last see someone weeping because of sinful-
     ness? Is there evidence of brokenness of spirit amongst us,
     and humility? We are all so healthy, we are so glib… The
     result is that you get a mechanical performance of duties;
     and people are taught to evangelize and to do ‘personal work’
     almost by numbers, and are drilled to pray. Everything is
     organized and arranged, you pass examinations in them, and
     so all these duties are done in an external mechanical man-
     ner instead of rising out of the heart.26

   Westminster Chapel under his leadership took a vital interest in
world-wide missions. Little of this activity was known to the Evangelical
world. However, in the June 1967 Supplement to The Westminster Record which
was available to church members only, and which gave missionary
reports from the field, there is recorded the financial support which
was extended to some fifty-nine missionary agencies and individuals.
Two missionaries of the Borneo Evangelical Mission, Dr. and Mrs.
W.C. Lees had so evidently been blessed and stimulated by the ministry
at Westminster that they named their Tri-Pacer missionary aircraft,
“Westminster Chapel”!

some doctrinal distinctives
From his prolific reading of Church history, the Doctor nurtured his
greatest desire for the Church of God — a heaven-sent revival. “Who
cannot but grieve to see Zion powerless and poverty-stricken and so
unworthy of her great Lord and Master? What can be more pitiful
than to see the Body of Christ reduced to no more than a number of
committees and conferences without the Spirit and without power…
Oh to see Christians on their knees in repentance and earnest prayer

[[p. 30]]
                       dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

that God should visit us once again in His grace!” Revival, as he
repeatedly affirmed, was not the same thing as an evangelistic crusade
organized by men, in which people were called upon to make a decision.
Citing Acts 3:19 he said,

    “these times of refreshing… from the presence of the
    Lord”…are periods of revival, as if Peter’s message was this:
    “Well now, here you have had the first great sample of the
    Spirit’s power and blessing. This is going to keep on recurring
    until the time of the restitution of all things”… In 1 Thess. 1:5
    Paul says, “Our gospel came not unto you in work only, but
    also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance.”
    What was it that turned the ancient world upside down? Was
    it just theological teaching? Was it mere enunciation of
    correct doctrine? Over and above that there was this mighty
    “demonstration of the Spirit and of power.”27

  His analysis of contemporary solutions to the effete condition of the
Church did not lead him to place much confidence in apologetics or
pre-evangelism.

    An apologetic which fails to put supreme emphasis on the
    work of the Holy Spirit is doomed to be a complete failure.
    But this is what we have been doing. We have brought out an
    apologetic which is highly philosophical and argumentative.
    We have argued about modern art, modern literature, modern
    drama, politics and social views as if this is what is needed.
    What is needed is an effusion, an outpouring of the Spirit;
    and any apologetic which does not finally bring us to the
    need of such an outpouring will ultimately be useless. I
    believe we are again in much the same position as that which
    obtained before those great things happened in the 30s of
    the eighteenth century. The Boyle lectures had been instituted
    in the previous century to provide an apologetic, and to
    defend religion and the Gospel. And we have been doing the
    same with such assiduity. Not only so, Bishop Butler’s famous
    Analogy had appeared in defence of the Gospel in a different
    manner. But these were not the factors that changed the
    entire situation. It was revival; and our only hope is revival.28
[[p. 31]]
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

   In recent years, the Doctor’s views on the work of the Holy Spirit
have been the subject of much critical attention. His teaching respecting
assurance and the “sealing” or “baptism of the Spirit” (he equated these
latter two aspects of the Spirit’s work) was, I believe, largely determined
by his reading of the Puritan divines, especially that of Thomas Goodwin,
the one-time Chaplain to Oliver Cromwell, the Lord Protector of
England. Goodwin, like other Puritans, distinguished a logical step by
step time sequence in the various acts by which a man appropriates
salvation. Justifying faith was seen as an act separated in time from a
second reflective act by which you logically deduced that you were a
believer. Further, there was an immediate assurance of the Holy Spirit,
not given to all Christians, which was received in an “intuitive” manner.
In his exposition of Romans 8:14-16, the Doctor speaks of three
different levels of assurance:

1st Deductive — this is a logical inference that you are a Christian, based
    on observing in yourself the activities which are peculiar to a
    Christian (prayer, Scripture reading, love of the brethren, etc.).
2nd Elemental — that sense of sonship which spontaneously wells up in
    the heart of a believer whereby he cries, “Abba, Father”!
3rd The Witness of the Spirit — this “witness of the Spirit” is the same thing
    as the “sealing” or “baptism of the Holy Spirit.” While all
    Christians may have the “deductive assurance, he argues, they do
    not all have the “elemental” assurance or the highest peak of assur-
    ance given by the “witness of the Spirit.” In this latter experience,
    “the Spirit Himself comes alongside the witness of my spirit and
    Himself bears His witness and His testimony. The peculiar charac-
    teristic,” he asserts, is that “it is a direct and immediate witness of
    the Spirit Himself” that imparts great joy and an overwhelming
    sense of the love of God to the believer’s heart. He argues against
    the traditional interpretation that Romans 8:14-16 is describing
    that which happens in the case of all Christians, by insisting that it
    is obvious that not all Christians do indeed possess this conscious,
    powerful and immediate awareness of the Spirit’s testimony that
    they are personally God’s children.29

   In evaluating this view of the Doctor’s, I would say that one cannot
dissect or prescribe the psychology of the salvation experience in the
precise way that theologians and pastors have been accustomed to do.

[[p. 32]]
                        dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

The conscious experience on which Dr. Lloyd-Jones insisted is present
in all believers at conversion, for even the weakest and most ill-instructed
Christians must have had sufficient assurance to trust Christ alone for their
justification. As the Doctor himself admitted, there are different degrees
of conscious assurance among Christians. Sometimes, the teaching they
have received on justification by faith alone has been hazy or has even
been omitted altogether. At other times, Christians have experienced
“desertions” (as the Puritans called them) — periods when the con-
sciousness of God’s presence and blessing has departed, usually
because they have sinned and grieved the Holy Spirit (Ephesians 4:30).
In the context, Romans 8:9 clearly indicates that Paul is referring to
the whole body of Christians — these all possess the Spirit. Romans
8:14f refers to the adopting, Spirit-borne witness to all believers that
they are the children of God. The passage is descriptive, not prescrip-
tive. In summing up this aspect of his teaching, I submit that the basic
problem with the Doctor’s exegesis here is the adoption of a Puritan
step-by-step ordo salutis (order of salvation) which views the one saving
act of God as a series of distinct, separate acts — acts separated by time
or by logical priority. Our Lord’s teaching in John 3:8 forcibly reminds
us that we cannot logically analyze the salvation diamond in this manner
— we can only turn it around in our minds and see the splendour of
each wonderful facet.
   That the Doctor was not a slavish follower or “gramophone record”
of notable Reformers or Puritans of the past is to be seen in his will-
ingness to come to the view, unpopular in Reformed Circles, that the
man in Romans 7 was not a regenerate man, but a man experiencing
the process of the conviction of sin. Recently, the Dutch Reformed
theologian H.N. Ridderbos and others have also rejected the tradi-
tional Reformed interpretation held by men like the late Professor
John Murray. Ridderbos argues on different grounds from those of
the Doctor, namely from redemptive historical considerations, that
the man in Romans 7 is not a Christian.
   The Doctor’s views on the gifts of the Spirit reflect the complexity of
an issue, which in the still current Charismatic debate, has often been
oversimplified. He saw two main responses to “faith-healing” (and the
other charismatic gifts). There are first, “those who are over-impressed
by the occurrence of certain phenomena.” He mentions Dr. John A.
Mackay who has sponsored the Pentecostalist David Du Plessis in the
ecumenical circles of the World Council of Churches. These men were
[[p. 33]]
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

virtually saying: “What does theology matter as long as you see this kind
of thing happening?” The fact that Roman Catholic charismatics assure
us that the “gift of the Spirit” has served to increase their veneration for
Mary should surely compel us to urgently re-think these matters.
Second, there is the group of those who tend to reject the revival of
miraculous gifts “in toto”. He divided this latter group into three. There
are those who dismiss them as having been propounded by persons
suffering from certain psychological aberrations. Then there are those
who reject them on scientific grounds — “Nature is a closed system…
Miracles are impossible.” And finally there is the “biblical” group who
adopt B.B. Warfield’s argument that miracles ceased with the closing of
the canon of Scripture and the accompanying authentication of the
apostles. “That view has always seemed to me to be extremely dangerous”
he wrote, “because it means that you are introducing a kind of new
dispensationalism. What parts of the Scripture apply to us?… In other
words, I believe that those wedded to this view have been guilty uncon-
sciously of introducing a new kind of Deism. We have tended to exclude
God from present day activity.” Evangelicals must surely all agree that
one cannot keep God in a box, even if openness means that one cannot
always give a decisive refutation when confronted with certain unusual
phenomena. Lloyd-Jones refers us to Matthew 24:24 — we can expect
“great signs and wonders,” but these will not ultimately deceive the elect.
Further, he gives several helpful principles to guide Christians:

     1. Believe that “miracles can happen at any moment in the
        will and sovereignty of God” while maintaining “our
        healthy and sceptical and critical attitude to everything that
        is reported to us.”
     2. Most important of all, “we must not allow our doctrine to
        be determined by the phenomena.” Phenomena, such as
        claims to miraculous healing may be explained by sponta-
        neous cures, the tremendous power of suggestion, etc.
     3. No biblical miracles are “announced several days before-
        hand,” and there are no “reports of failures in the book of
        the Acts.” The effect of miracles was to fill people “with a
        sense of awe, and at times of fear.” There was no laughter
        or jocularity as is often witnessed today.
     4. “Spiritists can produce certain results,” so we must warn
        people not to submit again to the power of evil spirits.

[[p. 34]]
                          dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

   The over-riding concern that marked all the Doctor’s ministry sur-
faces here. He desired to give people practical help solidly grounded
on the Scriptures. Christians should continue to “use the usual means
in the treatment of sickness and disease… In answer to ‘the prayer of
faith’ He may choose to answer apart from ordinary means.” Typically,
he concluded, we are not to “abandon our biblical positions because of
any phenomena. We are to try and test them all… But we are still to
believe that ‘with God, all things are possible.’”30
   As one surveys the eighty-two years of his life and ministry, it becomes
obvious that one over-riding apostolic note rang through it all —
boldness! Just as the apostles after the Spirit was poured out at Pentecost
feared the faces of no men, so Dr. Lloyd-Jones preached fearlessly
and with apostolic authority, the same “Truth, unchanged, unchang-
ing” before the great and the lowly. In an age which dislikes authority,
he unhesitatingly declared the gospel to all. The apostle Paul, aware of
the attacks which inevitably follow bold leadership, wrote to his
Corinthian gainsayers: “Not for that we have dominion over your faith,
but are helpers of your joy: for by faith ye stand” (2 Corinthians 1:24).
Lloyd-Jones knew that the only medicine which would do needy
sinners good was the Word of God, preached not apologetically, but
with authority. He thereby helped many souls into an experience of
joy unspeakable and full of glory.
   The poetic lift and lilt of his native Welsh tongue came through
in his preaching in English, and provided a natural vehicle for the
sunbursts of eloquent doxology and joy that escaped his lips in
preaching. The joyful music of Zion filled the services at Westminster
Chapel. Hymns brought theology into the hearts of his people. They
were carefully chosen to convey the great New Testament truths he was
expounding. In the Communion Services, the congregation lifted up
its voice in grateful praise to the Saviour, singing no.375 of
Congregational Praise — “He loved me, and gave Himself for me” — to the
tune Consolation by Mendelssohn. Come! Let us sing the last stanza
with all the redeemed:

     O when I stand ’mid yonder shining throng,
           And on fair Canaan’s coast my Saviour see,
     I’ll add this chorus to my swelling song,
           “He loved me, and gave Himself for me.”
[[p. 35]]
dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

  Doctor David Martyn Lloyd-Jones was a man who spoke “from the
heart to the heart; not however, as a dying man to dying men, but as a
man who will never die to men who also will never die.”31 E

REV. LEIGH POWELL, B.A., M.Div., MCLIP, is pastor of Covenant Baptist Church, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.


endnotes
    1 Article originally published in The Gospel Witness, 60, No.2 (April 9, 1981), 8-
11 (here printed with slight modifications).
    2 Iain Murray’s excellent biography, David Martyn Lloyd-Jones (Edinburgh:
Banner of Truth, 1982-1990) supplies the information that was not available in
1981, the date of the original version of this article.
    3 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, Preaching and Preachers (Grand Rapids: Zondervan, 1971),
152.
    4 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, “The Centenary of Westminster Chapel, 1865-1965” in
Knowing the Times: Addresses Delivered on Various Occasions, 1942-1977 (Edinburgh: Banner of
Truth, 1989), 238.
    5 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, “The Centenary of Westminster Chapel 1865-1965,”
239.
    6 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, “Jonathan Edwards and the Crucial Importance of Revival”
in The Puritan Experiment in the New World (London: Westminster Conference, 1976), 119.
    7 Lloyd-Jones, “Jonathan Edwards and the Crucial Importance of Revival,”
106.
    8 Lloyd-Jones, “Jonathan Edwards and the Crucial Importance of Revival,”
108.
    9 Lloyd-Jones, “Jonathan Edwards and the Crucial Importance of Revival,”
112.
    10 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, “John Calvin and George Whitefield” in Able Ministers of the
New Testament (London: Puritan and Reformed Studies Conference, December
1964), 92.
    11 Lloyd-Jones, “Jonathan Edwards and the Crucial Importance of Revival,”
120.
    12 Lloyd-Jones, “The Centenary of Westminster Chapel 1865-1965,” 245.
    13 Lloyd-Jones, Preaching and Preachers, 234.
    14 Article originally published in The Gospel Witness, 60, No.3 (April 23, 1981), 7-
11.
    15 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, “On his First Sight of the Evangelical Library,” in D.
Martyn-Lloyd Jones, Letters 1919-1981 (Edinburgh: Banner of Truth, 1994), 53.
    16 D.M. Lloyd-Jones. The author regrets that the first published version of the
article failed to include the bibliographical references, and he has been unable to
locate this one.
    17 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, “How to Safeguard the Future,” in Knowing the Times: Addresses
Delivered on Various Occasions, 1942-1977, 280. see further Iain H. Murray, David Martyn

[[p. 36]]
                                  dr. d. martyn lloyd-jones: a personal appreciation

Lloyd-Jones: The Fight of Faith 1939-1981 (Edinburgh: Banner of Truth, 1990), 309-311.
    18 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, Training for the Ministry Today (London: London Theological
Seminary, 1983), 6.
    19 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, “Luther and his Message for Today” in Unity in Truth:
Addresses given by Dr. D. Martyn Lloyd-Jones at meetings held under the auspices of the British Evangelical
Council (Darlington: Evangelical Press, 1991), 43.
    20 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, “Ecclesiola in Ecclesia” in Approaches to Reformation of the Church
(London: Puritan and Reformed Studies Conference, 1965), 57.
    21 Lloyd-Jones, “Ecclesiola in Ecclesia,” 69.
    22 Lloyd-Jones, “Ecclesiola in Ecclesia,” 71.
    23 D.M. Lloyd-Jones. Please see endnote 16 above for the same situation
regarding this quote.
    24 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, “William Williams and Welsh Calvinistic Methodism” in
The Puritans: their Origin and Successors; Addresses Delivered at the Puritan and Westminster Conferences
1959-1978 (Edinburgh: Banner of Truth, 1987), 211.
    25 Lloyd-Jones, Preaching and Preachers, 27, 30.
    26 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, “Sandemanianism” in the Puritans: their Origin and Successors,
188.
    27 D.M. Lloyd-Jones. Please see endnote 16 above for the same situation
regarding this quote.
    28 Lloyd-Jones, “Jonathan Edwards and the Crucial Importance of Revival,”
118.
    29 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, “Romans: an Exposition of Ch. 8:5-17” in The Sons of God
[Grand Rapids: Zondervan 1975 (1974)], 148-399.
    30 D.M. Lloyd-Jones, The Supernatural in Medicine [London: C.M.F. Publications,
1972 (1971)], 4-5, 10-11, 18-19, 21-23.
    31 Author’s revision and recasting of Richard Baxter’s famous saying.
[[p. 37]]
