DOCUMENT_ID: mlj-inaugural-address-1977
TITLE (as printed): Inaugural Address at the opening of the London Theological Seminary
DATE: 6 October 1977
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://www.londonseminary.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/MLJ_Inaugural_Address-1977.pdf
EDITION: PDF posted by London Seminary (successor name of London Theological Seminary), retrieved 2026-09-07
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (born-digital/OCR text layer extracted via pdftotext -layout from the source PDF; not re-OCR'd by this session)
TOTAL PAGES: 32 (pamphlet pagination "1 of 32" ... "32 of 32", printed in the PDF itself; the PDF file itself is 8 pages of scanned/imaged text)
WORD COUNT: 9047
RIGHTS: Copyrighted (Martyn Lloyd-Jones, d. 1981; work first delivered/published 1977). UK/EU life+70 copyright runs to 2051. Use only short quotations (<100 words each), flagged [RIGHTS: copyrighted, short quotation only]. See book/rights/permissions_log.csv.

Martyn Lloyd-Jones
Inaugural Address
London Theological Seminary
October 6th 1977
    Dr. Martyn Lloyd-Jones’
         INAUGURAL ADDRESS

at the opening of the London Theological Seminary.
                October 6th 1977
I address you tonight primarily as the Chairman of the
Sponsoring Committee which has been responsible for
calling this meeting to inaugurate The London Theological
Seminary. Before I say anything else I should like to repeat
what our chairman has said about our sense of gratitude to
Mr. Kensit and the Trustees of the Kensit Memorial College
in whose premises we are meeting tonight, and in whose
premises the Seminary is going to function. They of course
are concerned about the very same things as we are, and it
seems to me to be a very happy co-operation of two
institutions which are designed and intended to further the
same common object.

I have a suspicion that many of you feel that the
phenomenon by which you are confronted is that of a
poacher turned gamekeeper! I agree that there is a good
deal to be said for that feeling! My only defence is that I try
always to be open to any conviction produced by facts; and
whatever views I may have held in the past, and indeed still
hold, I am here because I have been persuaded by the
arguments that have been put before me.

I believe we are doing something here tonight which is of
very great significance. We are inaugurating a new College,
and we are concerned about the whole question of the
training for the ministry. I want therefore to take advantage
of this occasion to reconsider with you the whole question of
[[p. 1]]
the training for the ministry. That seems to me to be the
most significant element in what we are doing here tonight.

Why should this question be reconsidered? There are many
reasons, and it is these which have been moving us as
members of this Sponsoring Committee. I believe it is true to
say that by now everybody virtually is dissatisfied with the
existing systems. During the last few months, and very
largely as the result of that notorious book 'The Myth of God
Incarnate' many have been expressing their amazement and
surprise at the state of Theological Colleges. I have seen
statements by bishops of the Church of England deploring
the obvious gap between what is happening among so-
called theologians in Oxford and Cambridge and the
ordinary members of the Christian Church. Many of them
have said, and said rightly, that these colleges where men
are supposed to be trained for the Christian ministry have
lost all contact with the members of the Christian Church. It
is being recognised more and more that something has to
be done.

Some, of course, have reacted strongly against the present
state of such Colleges and have tended to say that therefore
we do not need any colleges at all. I believe that that is an
error, as I am hoping to show as we proceed. Another
attitude, which is of concern to all of us at the present time,
is the result of the new stress upon experience and the
experimental aspect of the Christian faith. We thank God for
this emphasis but many such friends are tending to say that
[[p. 2]]
there is no need for ordained ministers as such, and
therefore no need, obviously, for training ministers.

A further reason is that there are rumours, and more than
rumours, of a move to have Ecumenical Colleges. So far,
the various denominations have had their own Colleges; but
there is a move afoot now to amalgamate all these and to
have Colleges in which men who are going to minister in the
various denominations, even including the Roman Catholic
Church, are going to be trained together and have a
common course of instruction. This immediately stirs within
us the feeling that we must have an Evangelical College. I
believe this Ecumenical idea will come to pass, partly on
economic grounds and various other difficulties. They
cannot afford their separate Colleges, so they are going to
get together to establish Ecumenical Colleges. The
Sponsoring Committee felt very strongly that over against
that we must have an Evangelical Seminary, and not only an
Evangelical but a distinctively Protestant College. We are
living in days, unfortunately, when it is no longer sufficient to
talk about being Evangelical. We must emphasise
'Protestant' as well as Evangelical because we stand not
only against ecumenicity but very definitely, and in
particular, against Roman Catholicism. We are Protestants
and this is to be a Protestant Evangelical College. There are
Evangelicals today who are not only ready to fraternise, but
are fraternising with Roman Catholics, and even considering
with favour the possibility of eventually being one with the
Roman Catholic Church. So we are Protestants as well as
[[p. 3]]
Evangelicals over against a vague ecumenicity that
ultimately includes Roman Catholicism.

Another element or factor which has influenced us is that we
have been hearing that certain Free Church evangelical
students who are hoping to enter, and some who have
entered, Free Church ministries have actually been going to
Anglican Colleges for their training. As a Non-conformist and
Free Churchman that is something which rouses my ire, and
if I had no other reason for supporting this venture, that
alone would be sufficient for me! And then, on top of this, it
is generally agreed that the existing Colleges for some
reason or another — and I hope to deal with some of them —
have failed to produce preachers. One of the most alarming
and most regrettable aspects of our present Church life is
the paucity of preachers of the Word. We have
knowledgeable men; but what is needed above everything
else is preachers. Many hold the view, and I believe that
there is something to be said for it, that the existing Colleges
far from producing preachers have on the whole tended to
stifle and ruin preachers. There are young men who have
gone to College full of zeal for preaching the Word of God
who have come out tired intellectually, and weary, and who
have lost that first impulse which gave them the desire to
become preachers of the Word.

A final reason which I adduce is that we felt that it was
essential that the Sponsorship of such a College should be
as broad-based as possible. There are among us certain
[[p. 4]]
'empire builders' who are always ready to start their own
colleges, so we felt that we must have a College which
would be supported by, and which would minister to, the
various groupings of Protestant Evangelicals in this country
today. The names of the members of this Sponsoring
Committee emphasise this wide and broad base on which
the College is founded. This is not some personal venture; it
is the coming together of Protestant Evangelical groupings
in this country to form a college which will serve all the
various Free Evangelical Churches.

How do we approach this whole matter of training
preachers? I was seriously tempted to deal with the subject
solely from the historical standpoint. The history of the
Theological Colleges and Seminaries is a very fascinating
one. Let me give a hurried bird's eye view of the history of
this matter. The Church as we know her started on the Day
of Pentecost, and the first preacher under her auspices was
a man who, from the modern standpoint had had no training
at all — a fisherman, the Apostle Peter. Of course, he and the
others had been with our Lord, and they had heard His
preaching and His teaching; but there was no formal
teaching, no formal training, to make them preachers. Peter
stood up and 'filled with the Holy Ghost' he preached; and all
those New Testament preachers, with the exception of the
Apostle Paul, were similar men. They could be described
accurately as 'ignorant and unlearned men' yet they were
mighty preachers.
[[p. 5]]
At first that was the position, but gradually that was
changed. As the result of the spread of the gospel in the
Greek world, and its coming among the philosophers, it was
felt that a greater intellectual content was necessary, that
the gospel should be defended against the attacks that were
made upon it, and that its superiority to every human
philosophy should be made clear and manifest. So, slowly,
the whole idea of training and preparing men came in, and
developed very rapidly until when you come to the Middle
Ages and later, you have what is called a kind of
scholasticism, and men entering the ministry were taught an
admixture of philosophy and biblical teaching. They were
taught philosophic systems and Roman Catholic 'dogma',
with the result that the gospel in a sense was entirely hidden
out of sight.

Then came the Protestant Reformation in the 16th century.
Now the Protestant Reformation, while it clearly saw the
error of the teaching of Rome and introduced true gospel
teaching and preaching, and while it corrected the doctrine,
in my opinion did not deal in a fundamental manner with this
further matter of training men for the ministry. It tended to
take over the general idea of training, and though it gave
men a different teaching, the method seems to me to have
been very much the same. We can well understand that.
They felt that they had to answer the case of Rome, and to
point out its dangers to the people. The result was that,
speaking very generally, Luther, Calvin and all these great
men perpetuated the kind of preparation which had already
[[p. 6]]
been employed. The teaching was changed but in a sense
the method was not. The Puritans in a sense went further
than the Reformers in this matter, but I would argue that on
the whole even they also did not break free, as it were, from
this older method, this older approach which had been in
vogue for so many centuries.

It is when you come to the 18th century you find that a great
change took place which is of very great significance. With
the advent of the Evangelical or Methodist Awakening a
number of men came into being who were known as
Exhorters. These were men who were converted under the
powerful preaching of the Methodists, both Calvinist and
Arminian. Some of these converts were ordinary workmen,
but in the Class meetings and Societies they began to
display a gift of speech, and increasingly they were called
upon to speak and address meetings. In spite of the fact that
they were not trained they became Exhorters or Lay-
preachers. The old idea still persisted, so they were not
called preachers; they were called Exhorters, because they
had not had training. But some of these men were very
powerful preachers, some of them exceptionally so; but as
they had not received the customary training they were not
ordained. This persisted to the end of that century.

But when you come to the last century, the 19th century,
something happened which we must examine very carefully.
As the century proceeded it was felt that people had now
become more educated and more learned, and so a sense
[[p. 7]]
of increasing dissatisfaction was felt with these simple,
unlettered, sometimes uncouth preachers; and a
corresponding demand arose for educated men in the pulpit.
So the movement in the direction of Theological Colleges
and Seminaries was given a very great impetus; and it
developed very rapidly until you arrive at the full-blown idea
of Theological Colleges and Seminaries which flourished in
the latter half of the 19th century, and which has persisted
more or less until today. Great emphasis was placed upon
training, upon knowledge and learning — a knowledge of
philosophy and a knowledge of Greek and Hebrew. A
knowledge of classical Greek was deemed to be essential in
order to interpret the Greek of the New Testament truly, and
so on. Now this became the pattern, and so men were sent
to such Colleges to receive this education and learning and
culture. That is what we have inherited.

My suggestion is that we have arrived at a point when all
that has got to be reconsidered if we really want to have an
efficient training of men for the ministry. I must not digress
by pointing out that all that has been done during the last
century has more or less come to nothing, and that we have
undergone almost a complete circle. Having emphasised for
so long, as the authorities did, that you must have a
knowledge of classical Greek, it was then discovered that
the Greek that was actually used was so-called Koiné
Greek, a much more common Greek; and that a knowledge
of classical Greek might even be misleading in this respect.
Not only so, they paid great attention to the dates of origin of
[[p. 8]]
the various books of the New Testament, and with great
confidence they taught that most of the books of the New
Testament were not written until the end of the first century
and some even in the second century. But by now Dr. John
Robinson, of all men, has argued cogently that these books
were written before A.D. 70; so all the fuss and the bother,
and all the weariness that has been caused to endless
generations of poor students who have had to grapple with
this nonsense, has all proved to be completely valueless
and useless!

That, then, is the position. What are we to do? The
conclusion at which we as a Sponsoring Committee have
arrived is that the whole question must be faced anew. We
must make a fresh start; and we must not content ourselves
with a mere modification of the present system and the
present position. That, I believe, has been the main
weakness and defect of the various Bible Colleges that have
come into being especially since the end of the last world-
war. They were established on the basis — and I was
involved in the discussions — that what we needed to do was
to safeguard the teaching; but the method of training was
never considered at all. It was felt that all that was
necessary was that we should guarantee that the teaching
would be Evangelical; but they made the fatal mistake of
allowing the curriculum to be determined by the liberal
outlook, sometimes even by secular Universities such as the
London University. A secular University, which is what the
London University is, was to determine the curriculum and
[[p. 9]]
the syllabus that Evangelical ministerial students are to
study! That was the fatal blunder; and so we have to
reconsider this matter from the very foundation. We are not
concerned, therefore, merely to start yet another College:
we are starting an entirely different Seminary, something
which is based, not on the tradition we have inherited, but
which is based rather upon our understanding of the New
Testament teaching. We propose that an entirely new start
should be made.

I therefore repeat my question; What is needed? I have
already answered the question by asserting that the primary
need is for preachers. God has done His greatest work in
the world in the Church through preachers; and never was
there a greater need of preachers than today. I am
emphasising 'preachers' rather than teachers. What is the
difference between a preacher and a teacher? The teacher
is one who, essentially, imparts information, passes on
knowledge. I am prepared to argue that there is less need of
teachers today than there has been for a long time. This is
so because the general level of culture and of knowledge is
higher than it has ever been. Members of churches today,
and others, have had a good education, speaking generally.
They are able to read many translations of the Scriptures
which were not available before. There are endless
Commentaries, and there is ample literature on religion in
general, on theology and various other subjects, easily and
cheaply available; so my argument is that there is less need
today to give people information which they can find in
[[p. 10]]
books for themselves. The greatest need is not for teaching
or lecturing; it is for preaching.

What is preaching? Preaching is proclamation; it is the
powerful presentation of the great message of the Bible. It
includes evangelism of course. The preacher should be an
evangelist, and should know how to bring people to
conviction of sin and to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, as the
Apostle Paul tells us he always did (Acts 20;21). He reminds
the Ephesians that what he did amongst them was to tell
them about ‘the repentance that is toward God and the faith
that is toward the Lord Jesus Christ'. We need men who are
able to do this with great power; but at the same time they
must be able to build up the saints. I have often affirmed that
the main function of the preacher is inspirational. It is not
merely to dole out information, or lecture on the books of the
Bible, or lecture on doctrine. He can tell people where they
can read this. He does so up to a point of course, but his
supreme task is to inspire the people. The people are
reading the Bible, but they do not see much in it. The
business of the preacher is to bring the Bible alive to them,
to show them what is in it, to thrill them as they hear it from
him, and then as they read it for themselves. He is to move
people. He is to remember that they have hearts as well as
heads, and that unless people are moved by the preaching,
their head-knowledge may even be a danger to them. To
produce live living witnesses, 'epistles of Christ', is the
business of the preacher. He is not simply to give people
knowledge and information. He is to produce saints, and
[[p. 11]]
these saints, as they mix with others, will be the means of
convicting them and bringing them to the Church. So the
supreme need is that of preachers, not mere teachers, still
less lecturers.

But the man of God is also to be a pastor. Because of the
stresses of modern life, in a very special way, the pastoral
side is an increasingly important one. There, then, is the
need; and what we are aiming at in this new Seminary is to
supply the answer to it.

How can we do so? Let us start with our ideas with respect
to the students. What are our desiderata with regard to the
student? This is most important, because in many ways the
wrong view has been held for many years. The churches
and ministers — let us admit it — have been far too ready to
'lay hands suddenly' on any man. If any young man says
vaguely that he would like to go into the ministry we
immediately encourage him to do so. We may be quite
wrong in doing so. This is a very serious and most crucial
matter. I assume that we are all agreed that the minister is
not a professional man. No man should go into the ministry
as a profession. What then do we desiderate? Well, he must
be a converted man. He must be a man who is aware of new
life in himself; but he must be a spiritually-minded man also.
This is essential. He must have a sense of burden for the
souls of men. He must be aware of a call which he finds
irresistible. I have always maintained that if a man can stay
out of the ministry he should do so. Every minister and
[[p. 12]]
preacher should be able to say, 'The love of Christ
constraineth me'.

He must also be a humble man. This is again crucial. We
read in the life story of George Whitefield that he felt that this
task of the preacher, the minister, was so high and so
sacred that he felt completely unworthy of it, and had to be
persuaded by many others to go on with it. This sense of
unworthiness seems to have gone, doesn't it? People rush
into preaching and into pulpits lightly. The man who is to be
a preacher must be a man who is aware of a sense of awe.
He must be a humble man because of the greatness of the
task. I surely need not say anything about his character. By
character I mean in particular that the minister must not be a
difficult man. I fear that I have known some ministers who
have been very difficult; and their poor flock have had to
accommodate themselves to him, to the preacher. This
should never be the case. Over the years I have
discouraged quite a number of men from entering the
ministry because I felt that they were possessors of such a
temperament, such a psychological make-up, that they were
such awkward men, that anybody going to seek help from
them would be ill at ease in their presence, and would more
or less have to put the minister at ease! A minister, a man
who preaches, who does pastoral work, must be of such a
character, such a type, that people do not have difficulty in
approaching him.
[[p. 13]]
Those are general matters; but there are certain special
matters upon which we must insist. A preacher should be a
man of personality. That term unfortunately is much abused
at the present time. People talk of 'television personalities' —
nothing but grinning ninnies! That is not what I mean by
personality. I mean a man of strength, an arresting man, a
man with an element of command about him. He has to
stand in a prominent position; so a negative personality is
surely a defect in any man who is going to be a preacher. He
must also be a man of ability. Obviously if he is going to help
others he must be a man of ability. He must know how to
think, he must know how to study, but above all he must
know how to speak. A man may be a very good man, he
may be a very godly man, but if he cannot speak except in a
halting, stumbling manner, he has no business to be in the
pulpit. By definition the preacher is a speaker, a proclaimer.
So he must have a gift of speech. I have referred to the 18th
century and the class-meetings, and how they detected this
gift in some of the converts. In their class-meetings they
would find that there were certain men who could pray more
freely than others, who could speak more freely not only in
giving their experience, but in giving their opinion upon a
verse. It was thus discovered that they were natural
preachers; and so the people would then urge them to
speak regularly. They had a speaking ability. This seems to
have been largely forgotten during the present century, and
it has led to very woeful and sad results. Furthermore, the
prospective preacher must have the confidence of the
Church to which he belongs. This is, again, most important;
[[p. 14]]
and we are very concerned to emphasise this in connection
with this College. Our desire is that everything that shall be
done here should be closely in touch with the churches from
which the students and the candidates come. They are to
remain in contact with the churches constantly, with their
minister, their deacons, elders if they have any. We are very
insistent upon the fact that men should have the confidence
of their churches and should remain in contact with them.

When we come to the tutors I need not say much. What I
have to say is inevitable in the light of what I have been
saying about the students. The tutors must not be
'academics' primarily. Theological teachers and tutors have
often been academics who know nothing about Church life,
who know nothing about handling people, and, often, who
cannot preach. Such have been the men who have been
teaching others how to be preachers and pastors! It is
idiotic. We must have men who are themselves pastors and
preachers and not mere academics; and the men we have
appointed as tutors of this London Theological Seminary are
men who conform to this pattern. They are men, incidentally,
who have been to colleges either in Oxford or Cambridge or
London University, and some of them have even been to
two of them. So they are men of learning, men of academic
knowledge and standing; but we have not appointed them
for that reason. We have appointed them because they are
also men who are preachers, and who have warm pastoral
hearts, because they are men who are spiritually minded
and concerned about revival in the Church. Such are the
[[p. 15]]
members of the Faculty of this new Seminary. Not one of
these men is leaving his church. They are all continuing as
ministers and pastors in their local churches, but they are
giving this extra time, taking on this extra task and labour, in
order to train preachers and pastors for the future.

We come now to the question of how they are to train these
students. I start by saying that it is unlike every other kind of
training. It is entirely unique. It is entirely different from the
study of science or philosophy or literature or art or any
other subject. This is so because every Christian in a sense
has the same knowledge as the preacher and the pastor
has. It is a question of degree. When you take up any other
subject you virtually start knowing nothing. If you want to
study medicine or science your personality as such is not
involved; but here it is involved, and, in addition, every
Christian is a man who has a certain minimum knowledge.
Our entire approach therefore has to be very different. We
start by realising that here we are in a new realm, an entirely
different realm; and the matter must not be considered in an
academic or scientific manner. It must be considered always
in a spiritual manner. I came recently across a statement by
AnseIm who was many centuries ago Archbishop of
Canterbury. He wrote a book 'Cur Deus Homo' and in it he
said something which we must bear in mind, and which is
the justification for any training at all — 'As, on the one hand,
right order requires that we believe the deep things of the
Christian religion before presuming to subject them to the
analysis and test of reason; so, on the other hand, it looks to
[[p. 16]]
me like indolent neglect if, already established in the faith,
we do not take the trouble to gain an intellectual intimacy
with what we believe'. Note that he says that you believe
first. Reason is not the controlling factor; this is supra-
reason, it is above and beyond reason. He says we must
start with belief and not with reason and philosophy. But he
goes on to say that it is very unreasonable, on the other
hand, it is 'indolent neglect' if we say that because we have
faith we do not need to go any farther. We should now try to
reason out and to understand, as far as we can with your
enlightened spiritual reason, the things we have already
believed in the realm above reason. That seems to me to be
the basis from which we start.

But let me emphasise that we are not interested in mere
scholarship or any kind of scholasticism. That has been, as I
have said, the tragedy of the last 100 years in particular. The
men who have been concerned with Theological education
during the past century remind me forcibly of the Pharisees
and Scribes of whom our Lord said that 'they tithe mint and
rue and anis and forget the weightier matters of the law'.
They have wasted time and energy and wearied the poor
students and, in turn, members of congregations, with
details of so-called historical and literary criticism, and in
quoting authorities; and in the meantime the great principles
of the Christian faith have been forgotten. It is not surprising
that some of these Colleges have been closed and that their
premises are being sold. We are concerned here with
spiritual knowledge.
[[p. 17]]
That brings me to my next point which is that there are to be
no examinations in this College. You see, we are departing
entirely from what has been customary. Colleges founded
on the wrong idea have had examinations, and have gone in
for degrees and diplomas. We are turning our backs upon
that entire outlook. The men who come here to be trained
are not going to be regarded as children, or placed under a
law. We are not going to tell them when they must get up in
the morning and when they are to go to bed, and how they
must spend their time. We are assuming that they are men
who are called of God and who feel a burden of the times in
which we live. If they waste their time they will be
proclaiming that they will be disasters in the ministry if they
are ever called by a church. We are not interested in
diplomas and degrees which do not belong to this realm.
There is a sense in which it is almost blasphemous that
there should be examinations in connection with this
knowledge with which we are concerned.

At this point I venture to offer a criticism of a great
Evangelical scholar who at the opening of a famous
Seminary nearly 50 years ago uttered these words: 'We
believe' he said 'that a Theological Seminary is an institution
of higher learning whose standards should not be inferior to
the highest academic standards that anywhere prevail'. I
dissent from that completely and entirely; and regard it as an
entirely wrong approach. This College is not an 'academic
institution' and it should not be compared in any way with
[[p. 18]]
any institution of higher learning. We are in an entirely
different realm here. So we are not going to have any
degrees or diplomas or even any examinations. The
students will proclaim what they are by their response to
this; and when they appear before churches it will be
obvious to the church members.

We start, in other words, on this assumption, that preachers
are born. No college, or any other institution, can ever
produce a preacher. That they can do so has been another
of the fallacies of the past hundred years. A preacher is
born, as such, and I am not sure but that the same applies to
pastors. However, they need to be helped in the
development of the gifts they have, in order that they may
become effective preachers and pastors. This being a
Theological Seminary, no women will be admitted, and the
students will not be trained here for posts as religious
teachers or instructors in schools. We are out to produce
preachers and pastors, not experts in religious education,
not even 'foreign missionaries' as such. Preachers and
pastors. Such men may go of course to and preach in other
countries, but we are not concerned here as most Bible
Colleges are in that wider programme.

We agree that these men, whom we have defined and
described, need some further help. What are we going to
give them? Our idea is that we should provide here primarily
a basic teaching. This is not to be a college to produce
experts or specialists. It is to produce men who will be
[[p. 19]]
preaching Sunday by Sunday to congregations of ordinary
people. Should a student appear who has a greater aptitude
for study than the average, and who feels that he would like
to go on to obtain further knowledge or learning or
instruction, and to become a specialist in some branch or
other, he will be of course, at full liberty to do so; but the
object of this Seminary is not to produce such men. May I
use, to illustrate this point, an analogy from the realm of
medicine. The great fallacy in medical training over a very
long period of time has been that instead of training men to
be general practitioners, they have been training them to be
specialists. Here in the great London hospitals where
training is given all sorts of rare diseases are met, and
unusual and difficult cases are seen; and so the poor
student, the qualified student, generally goes out into
practice knowing a great deal about rare exceptional
diseases but often feeling that he knows very little about the
common cold or some of the childish ailments with which he
will have to deal in his surgery day by day. At long last this
has been recognised, and medical students are now given
training by general practitioners. But in the past it was not
so, and medical doctors had all this abstruse and rare
knowledge which was of little value in general practice.
Using that analogy we are concerned here primarily about
'general practitioners', preachers of the Word regularly
Sunday by Sunday in their churches and chapels. If they
want to go on to specialise they are at full liberty to do so;
but this College, in particular, does not cater for that.
[[p. 20]]
What then will be taught here? The first thing, of course, is
knowledge of the Bible, because a preacher is one who is
going to expound the message of the Bible. What does this
involve? We start with the vexed question of languages —
Hebrew and Greek. As the article written by Mr Graham
Harrison — one of the tutors — has indicated we propose to
give students sufficient instruction on this matter to enable
them to use the Commentaries in an intelligent manner.
Much of the trouble in the past has been due to the fact that
students have had to struggle and labour with Greek and
Hebrew. This has not proved to be of much help to them
when they have become ministers because they do not
know enough to pit their opinion against the authorities who
write the Commentaries. But they have had to waste much
time over this.

But there are those at the present time, as there have been
before, who dispute and deny what I am asserting. I heard of
a youngish minister recently who had said in a conference
that unless a man had a thorough knowledge of Hebrew and
Greek he could not possibly be a preacher. The great
authority, whom I have already quoted, who gave that
address nearly 50 years ago, said the same. He said that if
you are to tell what the Bible says you must be able to read
the Bible for yourself, and you cannot read the Bible for
yourself unless you know the language in which it was
written. That, to me, is an extraordinary statement to make.
Such men hold the view that unless a man has a knowledge
of Hebrew and Greek he cannot be a preacher of the Bible.
[[p. 21]]
What is the answer to them? I have already given one
answer. The Apostles could not come up to this standard;
and not only the apostles, but also the men to whom I have
referred in the 18th century. Some of the greatest preachers
in the 18th century were not only men who did not know any
Greek or Hebrew, some of them had virtually had no school
education whatsoever. Some of those who preached in
Wales had had some three or six months in a school where
they were taught a little English. This is surely a very serious
matter. Charles Haddon Spurgeon was never in a
Theological Seminary, neither was Joseph Parker, and they
were the two greatest English preachers of the last century.
The same applies to others who are well known because of
their great preaching ability and their books of sermons.

So, to say that a man cannot preach, and cannot even read
his Bible if he does not know Greek and Hebrew, I am afraid
must be categorised as sheer nonsense. This is most
serious for it seems to me to show an ignorance of the
spiritual character of the biblical message. How anyone who
has ever read the 1st epistle to the Corinthians chapter 2
can make such statements I cannot understand. We are not
in the realm of things natural; these things are 'spiritually
discerned', are understood in a spiritual manner. A man
does not understand the Bible simply by knowing Greek or
Hebrew. He understands the Bible because he has the Spirit
of God in him. 'The princes of this world' says Paul, did not
know and receive this message, and they rejected Christ;
'But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit: for the
[[p. 22]]
Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God'. He
goes on to say 'We have received, not the spirit of the world,
but the Spirit which is of God; that we might know the things
that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we
speak, not in words which man's wisdom teacheth, but
which the Holy Spirit teacheth'.

The key to the understanding of the Bible is not a knowledge
of the original languages. You can have such knowledge
and still be ignorant of the message — as so many are and
have been, unfortunately. It is the man who has a spiritual
understanding who understands the Word of God. Of
course, as the Protestant Reformers, and Tyndale and
others said, the Word of God must be in a language that a
man can understand. But today, we have it in a language we
can understand. We have it in English in many versions and
translations; so what preachers need today above
everything else is the power of the Spirit illuminating their
minds. John in his First Epistle in chapter 2, verses 20 and
27 teaches, 'You have no need that anyone teach you'.
Why? Because they had an 'unction', an 'anointing'. So to
say that a man cannot read his Bible, and that he cannot
preach if he lacks a knowledge of Greek and Hebrew seems
to me a serious misunderstanding of the biblical message,
and the true character of preaching. True preaching is the
conveying of this message. The Early Church did this even
when she had not got our New Testament documents. They
preached a message which they had heard, and had
believed, though they were 'ignorant and unlearned men'
[[p. 23]]
who knew nothing of the 'nuances' of Hebrew and Greek
deemed so essential today.

What is needed by preachers today is a sufficient knowledge
of Greek and Hebrew to enable them to use their
Commentaries, and to read the many translations available
in an intelligent manner, and to be able to follow the
argumentation of the authorities for one view rather than
another. No student who comes here — indeed I go further —
99 per cent of students who go any place of learning, will
ever know enough Greek and Hebrew to argue with the
great professors. So what is needed is this basic knowledge
of these languages. They have the Bible in a language they
understand; and what they need now is to be taught the
Bible message — the whole message, and the particular
messages of the particular books — in a more thorough
manner.

So, they will be trained in what is called 'exegesis' — a true
understanding of what the text is saying. But still more
important 'hermeneutics' — the grasping of the message, and
how to use this, how to convey it, how to apply it, how to
present it to the people. A man may be an expert at
exegesis but if he is poor at hermeneutics he will be a very
poor preacher.

Moreover, the students will be taught Theology. But they will
not be taught philosophy here. We have not catered for any
teaching of philosophy except in apologetics which will come
[[p. 24]]
at the end. Theology is knowledge of God derived from the
biblical revelation. Theology is most important; some of us
have been trying to teach and to emphasise this for many
years, and have held it to be 'the queen of the sciences'; but
we must realise that there are certain dangers connected
with teaching Theology. Increasingly I have come to the
view that the teaching of Theology should never be
separated from the Bible. If I were pressed hard I would be
prepared to say that Theology should never be taught
except through sermons! The great danger is to turn
Theology into an abstract, theoretical, academic subject. It
can never be such because it is 'knowledge of God'. So the
students here are to be taught biblical Theology — the
doctrines that emerge as you study through the Bible
carefully. Then, having got their biblical theology, they must
learn how to systematise that, and how to put it all together
in a more logical form in order that it may control their
thinking and preaching. But it is most important that it should
be presented in the right way, never abstractly, but always
as something which comes out of the Scriptures.

What is the purpose of Theology? Here, again, there have
been many mistakes in the past. Theology has to be
handled very carefully. What is the function of Theology and
Doctrine? First and foremost it is never meant to be a prison
house. It is never meant to be a strait-jacket. There have
been many men for whom Theology has been just that.
They are in a strait-jacket, hemmed in by their Theology,
and always afraid that they may say something wrong. That
[[p. 25]]
is not the business of Theology. Theology is not a prison, or
something which fetters a man; it is to be thought of, rather,
in terms of what the skeleton, the bony structure of a man's
body is to his body. Or, if you like, Theology can be
compared to the scaffolding that you put up when you are
going to erect a great building. It must be there if you are to
have good preaching: but you must not preach it in a
skeletal or structural manner. It is there to give body to the
sermon, and to safeguard you from saying anything wrong
or from going astray. Theology, again, may be compared to
railway lines which guarantee that you are going in the right
direction and make sure that you are going to arrive at the
right destination. But it implies movement! It is not
something restricting, prohibiting, that shuts you down,
something that inhibits freedom and liberty and power. The
moment a man is hemmed in and tied down by his Theology
he is showing that incidentally he is a very poor theologian,
and he certainly has a wrong view of the purpose of
Theology.

Theology means a knowledge of God, and the greater the
theologian the more he should 'bow down in the presence of
His Majesty'. The end and object of Theology is to make a
man say 'great is the mystery of godliness'; and if it does not
bring him to that he had better examine himself carefully.
The business of the tutors is so to present Theology that it
leads to that wonderful result. Theology is that which tells
me, indeed commands me, 'Take thy shoes from off thy feet,
for the ground on which thou standest is holy ground'. You
[[p. 26]]
cannot discuss Theology while smoking pipes or cigarettes
or drinking beer. It cannot be done in a jocular light-hearted
manner. It means knowledge of God, so it must be done
'with reverence and with godly fear'. That is the end and
object of Theology. So the students will be taught that while
all true preaching is theological, they are not to preach
theology.

What else will be taught? Church History. I regard this as
extremely important. It includes the history of the great
doctrines, how they came into being, how they developed,
and the disputes concerning them. We live in an age of
transition, an age which is doubting everything; so we can
learn a great deal from the past. We are back again in a
situation similar to that in the early centuries of the Christian
era; so this history of doctrine is going to be of extreme
importance. Not only doctrines but also the history of the
denominations. The denominations are talking about
amalgamating, of becoming one great church; and some
people are fighting a kind of last stand in ditches for their
particular denomination. Most of them do not know why they
belong to that particular body, and they have no idea as to
how their denomination ever came into existence. Their
attitude is, 'It is my denomination, and I am going to fight for
it to the last drop of my blood'. So it is good that people be
taught how the denominations first came into being. That is
a part of Church History. So are also the biographies of the
saints of God that have adorned the Church. How wonderful
it all is! These young men are to be exhorted to read such
[[p. 27]]
histories, not merely to obtain information, but also to keep
them humble, so that when they think that they are great
preachers, and begin to be puffed up, the reading of a little
about a man like Whitefield will soon bring them to the
conclusion that they have never preached at all, and are
never likely to do so! Church History also includes the
stories of revivals and spiritual awakenings. We are living in
a barren age spiritually; things are difficult and the churches
are having to struggle. Our greatest need is a mighty
spiritual awakening, a great revival of religion. The young
men who study here will be told about such great events in
the past, and will be directed to books which will give them
yet greater knowledge about them.

What of Apologetics? It should only come in at this point
because its value and function is mainly negative. Its
business is to refute the arguments brought against the
Christian faith, and to expose the futility of the teaching of
the various cults and ideas that are round and about us at
the present time. Ministers and pastors of churches are
constantly having to deal with either members of their
churches, or hearers in their congregations, who suddenly
have heard of a cult which seems to offer much more than
they have, and they are tending to join such movements.
They must be able to tell them why they should not do so.
There have been institutions and colleges which have been
virtually controlled by apologetics; but that is surely entirely
wrong. That is to be negative; but we are to be positive. We
must certainly know something about the arguments against
[[p. 28]]
false teaching, and we must be able to 'contend for the faith;'
and that is the place of apologetics. But it only comes in at
that point.

There is no time to say anything about the pastoral side. As I
have said there is a sense in which pastors are born, but
they can be helped and encouraged by men who have long
experience at such work, and also warned of certain pitfalls.
Men need help about such matters, and that will be provided
for them here. But we have made no provision for the
teaching of psychology. That has been the vogue for years —
pastoralia, psychology etc. But pastors are men called to
deal with problems of a spiritual nature, and that can be
done primarily out of our knowledge of the Word of God.

To sum up, what is the business of this College? What do
we hope it is going to do? Let me quote some words written
by Peter Brown in his excellent biography of the great St.
Augustine — 'The problem is no longer one of training a man
for a task he will later accomplish' (That is not the business
of a Theological Seminary.) 'It is one of making him wider —
of increasing his capacity, at least, to take in something of
what he will never hope to grasp completely in this life.' That
is the most you can do for any man called to the ministry.
Here a man comes; he has been converted, born again, and
he has been reading his Bible. He has a certain amount of
knowledge. The business of this College is to make him
'wider', not in the sense of going in for a study of philosophy,
but to widen the knowledge he already has, to give him a
[[p. 29]]
deeper understanding, to make him a more profound
thinker. Indeed if I were asked to sum it up in one word, and
asked what is the main function of such a Seminary I would
say that it is to teach men to think, so that when they have
left the College they can, and will, go on thinking, and not
simply turn to the notes which they took down when they
were in College, and read out the answers, when they are
asked certain questions. The tragedy of so many men who
have been to Theological Colleges and Seminaries is that
they have never really thought after they have left College.
They have lived on what they were told and took down in a
mechanical dictation system in their Seminary, and they
simply refer to the notes they took down then. What
happens in college should be only a beginning. Its purpose
is to widen a man, to increase his capacity to take in
something of that which he will never hope to grasp
completely in this life. This is so because it is a knowledge of
God. The business of the College is to give men a greater
love of the Word than they have ever had, a greater desire
to dig into its profundities and its mysteries, to read
everything they can which will help them to that end, and
then to go on doing this, to go on learning and increasing
and developing in every respect until they are called home
to their eternal reward. And above that it is, as I said, to
inspire these men, to send them out with a burning desire to
preach the 'unsearchable riches of Christ'. If men's hearts
are not warmer when they go out from this college than
when they came in, then these tutors will have failed.
[[p. 30]]
I was reading the other day a statement in a letter written by
a man called Robert Roberts of Clynnog. He was a
Welshman who lived at the end of the 18th century and was
a seraphic preacher. He came up to preach in London for
eight weeks in 1797 to his fellow countrymen. He was not
very good at English, but he was a wonderful Welsh
preacher. While he was here in London he visited some of
the English churches. He found them packed out with great
congregations; and among other places he went to
Whitefield's Tabernacle in Tottenham Court Road.
Concerning that particular visit he wrote to a friend saying, 'I
felt while I was there a groaning in my heart and spirit which
said' (quoting now from Genesis 22) 'Behold the fire and the
wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?' Then he
went on, 'Here is an altar, here is an offering but where is
the fire? Here I am looking at Whitefield's pulpit, but where is
his God?'

The business of a College is to help these future preachers
to provide the wood, and to provide the offering — which in a
sense is the knowledge of salvation in our Lord Jesus Christ.
This is what we can do; but if the fire does not descend upon
it, it will be lifeless, and it will be more or less useless and
valueless. You may be in the pulpit of Whitefield, you may
have Whitefield's knowledge, and even more than he had —
for he was not a very learned man — but the secret of
Whitefield was his God, and without Him we avail nothing.
Our great concern is that this Seminary should not be a 'dry
as dust' academic institution, trying to produce men with first
[[p. 31]]
class honours and high degrees and diplomas awarded by
secular universities such as the University of London. No!
We are hoping to encourage men who will be able to put
everything in order on the altar so that the fire of God The
Holy Spirit may descend upon it; and we have every
confidence that the members of this Faculty whom we have
appointed, and who are so ready to give their services, will
never lose sight of that objective. We have every confidence
that their greatest desire is that the fire may descend upon
the offering that is on the altar. Let us pray for them, and
pray for the prosperity and the future of this Seminary. Pray
also for the students who shall come here. Do everything
you can to help them and to encourage them. Pray for the
members of the Faculty and the students, that they may be
given strength and understanding and, above all, spiritual
insight, so that everything that shall be done here shall
redound to the praise and the honour and the glory of the
great God whom it is our privilege to try to serve.
[[p. 32]]
